Note: Unless otherwise indicated, all dialogue spoken by

Germans will be in the German language and subtitled.

FADE IN:

INT. WARSAW (ARCHIVE) - DAY

Black and white. Street scene. People toing and froing.  A

man rattles by.

SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION:

INT. STUDIO, RADIO STATION, WARSAW - DAY

WLADYSLAV SZPILMAN plays Chopin's Nocturne in C sharp minor,

Posthumous. He's twenty-eight years old, elegant and

handsome.

In the booth, separated from the studio by a glass screen,

an engineer, wearing collar and tie, monitors the broadcast.

Behind him, a window to the street with strips of paper

taped on it as protection against blast.

Without warning, a bomb drops nearby, then another and

another. The whole building shudders alarmingly and the

window in the booth shatters.

The engineer and Szpilman exchange a look as a man enters

the booth and talks urgently to the Engineer, then goes.

The engineer makes a 'cut-throat' gesture, but Szpilman

shakes his head, determined to play on.

He plays, then glances at the booth. The engineer has gone,

but through the shattered window he sees fires raging.

Very near, a loud, terrifying explosion. The reverberations

cause plaster to flake and dust to trickle down over his

face.

And then a bomb explodes even closer. The glass screen

separating booth from studio implodes, showering Szpilman

with glass. He stops, frozen.

INT. STAIRS AND LOBBY, RADIO STATION - DAY

Pandemonium. Chaos. People rushing in all directions, many

carrying files, boxes, papers, shouting, calling. Some of

the men in military uniform. The bombing continuous.

Szpilman fights his way down the stairs. He has a small

cut on his forehead and is dabbing it with his handkerchief.

He has a dazed look. Halfway down the stairs, A young woman,

DOROTA, tugs at his sleeve:

He turns, to see an extremely pretty young woman gazing

adoringly at him while they're jostled and shoved. His

eyes light up.

JUREK pushes in beside them and takes her arm.

Jurek, pulling Dorota, fights his way down the stairs.

And he, too, is carried with the flow into the lobby. Debris

everywhere. Szpilman fights to get to the main door, when

another bomb explodes, filling the air with dust and debris,

obscuring him and everyone else.

INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - DUSK

The Szpilman family in panic: coming and going out of rooms,

packing clothes and belongings into open suitcases and a

trunk in a comfortable, tastefully furnished bourgeois

apartment, the living room lined with books, paintings and

boasting a boudoir grand, silver platters and candlesticks.

The family consist of MOTHER, in a state of great anxiety,

FATHER, REGINA, twenty-six, HALINA, twenty-two, and HENRYK,

twenty-four, the only one not in movement. He sits by the

radio set, ear to the speaker, trying to tune to a station.

No bombs now, just the distant sound of artillery fire.

Father, holding a silver-framed photograph, crosses to

Mother.

He goes into his room. She can barely control her tears

and hurries into the kitchen just as the front door opens

and Szpilman enters, looks round bemused by the activity.

Mother dashes out of the kitchen.

The girls suppress smiles.

Father appears in the doorway, beaming, clutching a violin

case.

The toing and froing continues non-stop.

She starts to look. The others continue to bustle and pack.

Crackles, whistles and static from the radio.

They gather round.

Henryk hits the set.

The Polish national anthem plays. All are still.

INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - NIGHT

Father pours liqueur into glasses.

The family are seated around the dining table, having just

finished a meal. The table groans with the remains of the

dinner. Szpilman has a plaster over his cut.

The glasses are handed round.

They all clink glasses and drink.

EXT. RUINED WARSAW STREET - DAY

A column of German Soldiers, led by an officer on horseback,

march into view.

On the sidewalk of the street, with its buildings in ruins,

smoke still rising, stand onlookers, including Szpilman

and Henryk, and a little behind them, Father, craning to

see. They watch, expressionless, as the Germans march past.

INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - DAY

Regina is opening and closing the window, examining the

frame with her fingers. Halina is on a box, removing and

replacing books. Mother sits at one end of the table,

polishing a man's watch and chain. At the other end, Father

sits counting a small stack of notes and coins. Henryk is

deep in thought and Szpilman is fiddling with his father's

violin. The apartment has less furniture now and the silver

has gone.

All look at the table: it's covered in stains and the veneer

is coming away at one end. A table like this?

He pokes his finger under the veneer. It snaps, revealing

bare wood beneath.

They all talk at once.

A brief silence.

They start to hide the things.

INT. WARSAW PHARMACY - DAY

Szpilman is on the public telephone, waiting for someone

to answer his call. Then:

EXT. WARSAW STREET AND CAFE PARADISO - DAY

Szpilman and Dorota stroll along a tree-lined street with

bombed-out buildings and rubble. She flicks admiring, almost

loving glances at him as they walk and talk. And he is

smiling, touched by her.

She's embarrassed.

She begins to laugh.

They become almost helpless, holding on to each other.

Amidst their laughter, he takes her hand and kisses it.

INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - NIGHT

The family are gathered around the table, listening to

Father reading from the newspaper.

The apartment has even less furniture now. The paintings

are gone.

Silence. Then:

Silence, each locked in their own thoughts.

EXT. WARSAW STREET - DAY

Father, wearing the Star of David armband, walks slowly

along, carrying a string bag containing potatoes and

carrots, his eyes fixed on the pavement as if his thoughts

are a million miles away.

He passes two GERMAN OFFICERS. They stop.

Father stops, turns fearfully and approaches the Germans.

I German Officer cracks him hard across the face, catching

his ear. Father reels, collects himself as best he can and

starts to shuffle on -

Father steps off the pavement and walks in the gutter. The

German turn and go. Father walks on.

INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - EVENING

Szpilman composing at the piano. He plays, makes adjustments

with a pencil to the manuscript, plays again. The flat is

almost bare. Halina, enters with a newspaper.

She hands him the paper. He looks at it. His expression

darkens.

INSERT:

the newspaper. A map of the proposed Jewish area: two

distinct districts, one large, one smaller.

THE APARTMENT:

She looks over his shoulder and reads. As she does so, the

door of Henryk's room opens and he stands leaning in the

doorway, watching, as if amused.

Szpilman gazes at the map, horrified.

He laughs but they're disturbed by a sound from another

room, the sound of crying. They look at each other puzzled,

then Halina opens a door and looks in. Szpilman and Henryk

join her.

BEDROOM:

Father is asleep but Mother is sitting on the bed, holding

a purse, crying. Halina sits beside her, puts an arm round

her.

Mother opens the purse to reveal a crumpled note.

She weeps. Halina tries to comfort her. Szpilman and Henryk

watch.

INT. SZPILMAN APARTMENT, SLISKA STREET - NIGHT

Hands on the piano keyboard. Podgy, hairy hands with dirty

nails. They play an octave, harsh, toneless, with straight

fingers.

The hands belong to Mr Lipa, a dealer, early fifties. He

sits at the piano, now examining the lacquer. Regina stands

in the bow, watching him. Henryk is at the table, also

watching intently.

Szpilman sits apart, aloof, his back to the piano and to

Mr Lipa.

Henryk suddenly makes a lunge for him, grabs hold of him,

a rough struggle takes place and during it Mother and Father

appear at their bedroom door to watch, appalled.

Regina tries physically to restrain him.

Henryk subsides, glowering at him.

Suddenly:

EXT. STREET LEADING TO GHETTO - DAY AUTUMN

A great column of Jews of all ages make their way towards

the area that will become the ghetto. On foot, on bicycles,

on horse-drawn platforms, some pushing prams loaded with

belongings. A great moving mass of humanity.

They're watched on either side of the street by Poles.

On a horse-drawn platform, the Szpilmans with their

belongings.  All wear armbands.

Szpilman, Halina and Henryk walk beside the platform with

Mother, Father and Regina seated on it.

Szpilman catches sight of someone among the onlookers,

smiles and pushes through the crowd to Dorota, close to

tears.

He smiles and runs to catch up with his family. He looks

back, but Dorota is lost to sight and the procession

continues on its way.

INT./EXT. GHETTO APARTMENT AND STREET - DAY

Two rooms on the third floor: a living room and a kitchen.

The Szpilmans are unpacking their belongings in silence.

Father pauses for a moment to take stock.

They all go to the window and look out.

Their POV - the street.

Further along, men are building a wall across the street.

EXT. GHETTO WALL - DAY

A SERIES OF SHOTS:

THE WALL. THE WALL. THE WALL.

EXT. MARKET AREA, GHETTO - DAY

Winter. Cold, freezing day. Slush underfoot. Great activity.

People selling shoes, clothes, carpets, curtains, food. A

woman offers cakes under a barbed-wire cover. Noise, bustle,

restless wing and froing.

Among the traders, Henryk, slightly shabbier now, and at

his feet a basket with books. He holds a couple of volumes

in his hands, trying to interest passers-by.

Szpilman, also a little shabbier, wends his way through

the setters and buyers, the beggars, the passers-by, and

reaches Henryk.

Henryk drops the two volumes into the basket, takes a handle

one side of the basket, Szpilman the other. They set off.

As they walk, carrying the basket between them, passing

beggars and children asking for food:

Suddenly, a WOMAN appears in front of them, barring their

way. She's brightly rouged with thickly painted eyebrows,

dressed in an old green velvet curtain with an unsteady

mauve ostrich feather rising from her straw hat.

She wanders on. Szpilman and Henryk, too, continue on their

way. And as they go:

EXT. CHLODNA STREET - DAY

A stream of cars and trams. Jewish policemen and German

soldiers much in evidence.

Szpilman and Henryk join a large crowd of Jews waiting at

a barrier to cross the intersection. The crowd is agitated,

impatient for a policeman to stop the traffic and let them

through.

A MAN next to Szpilman and Henryk is becoming more and

more distraught, shifting his weight from foot to foot,

taking off and putting on his hat.

Meanwhile, a street band begins to play a waltz. Jewish

policemen and German soldiers are clearing a space, shoving

Jews out of the way, including Szpilman, Henryk and the

nervous man. Other soldiers are clearing a space.

Two GERMAN SOLDIERS pull out of the crowd a tall woman and

a short man and haul them into the cleared space.

The couple dance to the street band's waltz.

At intervals, German soldiers select even more unlikely

couples: a fat woman with a painfully thin man, a young

boy with an elderly woman, two men, and two cripples.

The German soldiers are, to various degrees, amused. One

of them is almost hysterical with laughter.

The couples dance as fast as they can. A soldier kicks one

of the cripples who can't go on any more.

Then a whistle blows, a policeman stops the traffic, the

barrier swings open and people swarm across in both

directions.

INT. GHETTO APARTMENT - DAY

Szpilman and Henryk enter and stop. Uneasy.

Seated at the table with Mother and Father is a uniformed

young man, YITZCHAK HELLER, unusual appearance, a man with

red hair and a Hitler moustache.

Heller remains seated, just nods at the brothers.

Henryk and Szpilman sit. They eye Heller suspiciously.

Awkward silence.

He runs dry. Another awkward silence. Then:

Silence. Heller rises angrily.

INT. CAFE NOWACZESNA, GHETTO - DAY

On a platform, Szpilman plays at a piano, but he can hardly

be heard above the noise of chatter and laughter.

The large cafe is crowded, hot and smoke-filled. Well-heeled

customers, pimps, whores, businessmen sit at little tables,

eating, talking, laughing, almost drowning the piano music.

Some dance.

A couple of tables back from the piano, a customer is doing

business with a friend. The customer has a small stack of

coins, some of them twenty-dollar gold pieces. He folds

back the tablecloth to reveal a marble surface beneath. He

drops a coin on the marble and listens but the noise is

too loud. He sees the cafe owner, BENEK, fiftyish, and

makes gestures, pointing at Szpilman. Benek pushes his way

through to Szpilman.

Benek points to the customer, who makes an imploring gesture

to Szpilman. Szpilman stops playing.

The friend watches the customer intently as he drops the

coins one by one onto the marble. He drops them, puts his

ear close and listens.  Two or three he discards, but he

smiles when coins make a pure tone, and he keeps them.

Szpilman exchanges looks with a pretty whore, who makes

eyes at him.

Satisfied, the customer beams, nods his thanks to Szpilman,

who resumes his piano playing.

EXT. GHETTO STREET - DUSK

Szpilman walking. He passes emaciated children and beggars.

He steps over the corpses lying on the sidewalk.

EXT. STREET NEAR WALL - DUSK

The wall runs the length of the street, dividing it in

half and narrowing it. Buildings on one side, the wall on

the other.

Szpilman walks along. A piercing whistle from the Aryan

side.  Szpilman stops.

Two women appear from a doorway, approach the wall and

look up.  Two or three packages come flying over from the

Aryan side. The women grab them and disappear.

Szpilman walks on and sees a child appear through a hole

at ground level. The child wriggles through then turns,

pulls a package after him and runs.

Szpilman walks on, hears a noise, looks back to see a SECOND

CHILD trying to wriggle through the same hole. But he's

stuck. Angry German voices from the Aryan side.

Szpilman goes to him, pulls him with all his might but the

boy is jammed in the hole.

From the other side of the wall, the sound of an angry

German voice and of a boot stamping violently on the boy.

The boy screams in agony.

Szpilman continues to try to pull the boy through.

The sound of the German voice swearing and the dull,

crunching noise made by the boot smashing into the boy

continues, and with every thud the boy screams in terrible

pain.

Szpilman struggles to help the boy whose screams are

becoming weaker yet increasingly desperate.

Szpilman pulls his arms and finally manages to get him

through. The boy lies moaning.

Szpilman takes the boy's face in his hands, tries to comfort

him, revive him, but the boy has stopped moaning. His head

lolls and his jaw sags. He is dead. Szpilman stands quickly

and hurries away.

EXT. COURTYARD AND HOUSE - EVENING

Szpilman approaches the house through a shabby yard.

INT. JEHUDA ZYSKIND'S ROOM - EVENING

The noise of a mimeograph machine. A huge, CHEERFUL MAN

with a perpetual cigarette in his mouth.

He laughs and coughs, starts looking through papers. His

room is piled from floor to ceiling with old papers and

stuff. Dark, shabby, run-down.

One of his sons, SYMCHE, is operating the mimeograph

machine. The other, DOLEK, is sorting the sheets as they

come off the roller.  MRS. ZYSKIND, holding a toddler, is

cooking at a small stove.

JEHUDA finds what he's been looking for, a newspaper made

up of a few sheets.

He beams. Szpilman leans over, takes a sheet from the

mimeograph.

He loves this, laughs, coughs.

A distinctive knock on the door. Szpilman tenses but Jehuda

beams. To one of his boys: Symche - The boy opens the door

to admit a short, neat man, MAJOREK.

He stops, seeing Szpilman.

Szpilman shrugs.

Jehuda loves this too, but his laugh makes him cough

appallingly.

INT. GHETTO APARTMENT - EVENING

Summer. The windows are open and the sounds of the ghetto

can be heard in the background. The family sit round the

small table as Mother comes with a saucepan of soup and

starts to serve.

He laughs. No one else does.

The others look at him.

Suddenly, there's a roar of engines and a screech of brakes.

Slamming of doors.

The family rush to the windows.

EXT./INT. BUILDING OPPOSITE AND GHETTO APARTMENT - NIGHT

A Gestapo vehicle has entered the street and screeched to

a halt.  Helmeted, jackbooted SS MEN, led by an NCO, pour

out of the vehicle.

The Szpilmans gather at their open window to watch. Regina

turns off the lights before joining them. They are all

terrified. Their half-eaten meal still on the table behind

them.

POV - from Szpilman apartment: the building opposite.

The SS men pouring into the building opposite. Sound of

the jackboots on stairs. Lights go on floor by floor.

In an apartment directly opposite, a businessman, his wife,

three young people and an old man in a wheelchair sit at

their dining table. The SS men burst in, machine pistols

at the ready. The family is frozen with horror, remain

seated.

The NCO scans their faces.

The family rise to their feet fast, except for the old man

in the wheelchair. The NCO bears down on him.

The old man in the wheelchair grips the arms of the chair

and tries desperately to stand. But he can't. Without

warning, the SS men seize the chair with the old man in

it, carry him out on to the balcony.

THE SZPILMANS:

Mother SCREAMS, Father shrinks back, Halina comforts him

and Regina comforts Mother.

Szpilman's and Henryk 's POV - the apartment opposite:

The SS men throw the old man in his wheelchair over the

balcony. He seems to hang in the air for a second then

drops out of the chair and out of sight. But there's a

terrible thud as his body hits the pavement and a clatter

as the wheelchair follows him.

THE SZPILMANS:

Mother sobbing. The others, still horrified.

Then sound of shots, slamming doors, screams, shouts.

Szpilman and Henryk hurry to another window so that they

can see what's going on.

Their POV from second window building opposite and street:

SS Men herding a couple of dozen prisoners from the building

opposite.

People watching from the windows but trying not to be seen.

The headlights of the SS vehicle are switched on and the

SS Men are forcing their prisoners to stand in the beam.

The prisoners start to run.

The SS men open fire with a machine gun mounted on the

vehicle. People in the building opposite begin to SCREAM.

The prisoners are being shot down. They are lifted into

the air by the bullets, turn somersaults, fall dead.

One man escapes by running back in the opposite direction,

out of the beam of light and is lost to sight for a moment.

The escaping man, a silhouette, out of the light, runs

with all his strength, putting distance between himself

and the SS. He starts to scale a wall. He looks as though

he's getting away.

But there's a floodlight on the SS vehicle. It flares into

light, swivels and finds the man. A volley of shots.

The man drops from the wall, dead. The SS men get into the

vehicle and speed off, driving over the dead bodies.

THE SZPILMANS:

Szpilman and Henryk stare at the scene, silent, shocked.

The only sounds, the weeping of the people opposite and,

nearer, Mother crying softly.

INT. CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY

Szpilman, as if in another world, playing the piano. The

cafe is full of customers but the atmosphere is much more

subdued than previously, the mood is sombre.

EXT.  CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY

A doorman with a cudgel beats away the beggars from the

door as Halina, distraught and out of breath, runs to the

cafe entrance. The doorman lets her in.

INT. CAFE NOWACZESNA - DAY

Szpilman snaps out of his reverie, seeing, across the heads

of the customers, Halina, in a state of great anxiety,

beckoning urgently.

Szpilman quickly brings the piece to a close, stands, steps

off the platform, threads his way through to Halina. She's

shivering, almost unable to speak.

EXT. STREETS - DAY

Szpilman running. Streets crowded. Corpses. Szpilman,

sweating, dodges and sidesteps. Then, suddenly, a woman

bars his way. She's the Feather Woman, brightly rouged,

with her thickly painted eyebrows, the unsteady mauve

ostrich feather rising from her straw hat.

He tries to dodge past but she grabs his arm.

Szpilman manages to free himself and runs on.

EXT. LABOUR BUREAU BUILDING - DAY

A mob of men in front of the building being herded this

way and that by Jewish policemen. More and more captive

men are brought in by the German Schutzpolizei (Shupos).

The mob constantly swelling.

Szpilman reaches the back of the crowd.

Szpilman scans the mob. The Jewish policemen using batons

and whips to herd the men. No sign of Henryk. Szpilman

becomes alert. He's seen someone he recognises. Heller,

with his red hair and Hitler moustache, wielding a baton,

driving men into the building. With difficulty, Szpilman

pushes his way through the mob and gets nearer to Heller.

Heller doesn't hear.

Heller glances round.

Heller shoves someone aside so that Szpilman can approach,

but he continues to beat and manhandle people.

Heller just glares at Szpilman and then moves away. Szpilman

stands, jostled by the crowd, uncertain, forlorn.

EXT. ALLEY AND LABOUR BUREAU, LATER - MID-AFTERNOON

Szpilman, keeping to the shadows of the alleyway, watches

the front of the building. Comings and goings. German

Soldiers in evidence. The mob is smaller now.

Szpilman waits and watches, and then a POOR WOMAN passes,

carrying a can wrapped in newspaper followed by a RAGGED

OLD MAN, dragging himself along. He's shivering with cold,

his shoes with holes show his purple feet.

The ragged old man suddenly lunges forward and tries to

grab the can from the poor woman. They struggle desperately.

The can falls to the pavement and thick, steaming soup

pours into the dirty street.

Szpilman watches, rooted to the spot. The ragged old man

stares at the can, lets out a groan, more like a whimper,

and throws himself full length in the slush, licking the

soup up from the pavement. The poor woman starts to howl,

kicking the old man and tearing at her hair in despair.

Then:

RUBINSTEIN, a ragged, dishevelled little man, Chaplinesque,

waving a stick, hopping and jumping, approaches the Germans

outside the bureau.

He approaches a couple of Shupos.

He waves his stick at them. They laugh. One of them bows

low.

Almost in tears with laughter, they give him a cigarette

and he goes on his way.

Szpilman almost smiles, then looks again at the building.

He waits.

EXT. ALLEY AND LABOUR BUREAU, LATER - DUSK

Sun just setting.

From the shelter of the alleyway, Szpilman continues to

watch the entrance of the bureau. No mob any more, but

people come and go - jewish policemen, shupos, a few jews.

Almost continuous sounds of distant shots and screams.

Then, Heller appears at the entrance, looks this way and

that and goes back inside the building. Szpilman alert.

Again Heller appears in the entrance. He beckons someone

inside. Henryk shuffles out. Heller shoves him into the

street. Henryk stumbles, falls.

Szpilman runs to him, helps him to his feet.

They start to walk.

They walk on.

EXT. CHLODNA STREET BRIDGE - DUSK

A wooden bridge has been constructed, linking the small

ghetto to the large ghetto. Few people about, mostly beggars

and children.

Szpilman and Henryk climb the stairs of the bridge, but as

they reach the bridge itself Henryk stumbles, sinks to his

knees. Szpilman gets hold of him, tries to help him stand.

EXT. CAFE NOWOCZESNA - NIGHT

Szpilman supports Henryk, helps him towards the back of

the cafe.

INT. KITCHEN, CAFE NOWOCZESNA - NIGHT

Henryk, finishing a bowl of soup and a piece of bread,

sits at a worktop with Szpilman and Benek. The kitchen is

small and busy with cooks, waiters, washers-up.

Silence.

EXT. CHLODNA STREET - DAY

A dense crowd of people crossing the bridge in both

directions.

Szpilman, shabby and unshaven, hurries along and meets

Jehuda Zyskind coming towards him, accompanied by the small

man, Majorek.

Szpilman stops.

They're buffeted by the crowd. In the street below them,

cars, trams, pedestrians and German guards.

INT. OFFICE AND FLOOR, SCHULTZ FACTORY - DAY

The name 'Samuel Szpilman' being written on a certificate.

The clatter of sewing machines.

SCHULTZ, a fat, sweaty German is filling out the form at

his desk. Majorek beside him, standing, chatting to him

and having a quiet laugh. In the doorway, Szpilman and

Father.

The small office is on an upper level with a window looking

down on the factory floor where Jewish men and women are

hard at work on sewing machines making the terrible clatter.

Schultz stamps the certificate, hands it to Majorek, who

gives it to Father.

EXT. CHLODNA STREET BRIDGE - DAY

A great mass of agitated people crossing only one way:

from the small ghetto to the large ghetto, carrying their

belongings. A German film crew records the scene. The

Szpilmans among the crowd, lugging suitcases and bundles,

Henryk with a few books, Father carrying his violin case.

They struggle across the bridge.

EXT./INT. YARD AND WAREHOUSE - DAY

A truck backing up. The tail-gate is opened to reveal a

huge load of furniture, linen, clothing, mirrors, carpets,

bedclothes. Three Jews inside the van start to unload the

stuff, dumping it in the yard.

Other Jews stand ready to start sorting the load, among

them the Szpilman family. Shupos and Jewish policemen

supervise.

Each has their allotted task: Szpilman and Henryk sort out

carpets, Father mirrors, Regina linen, Halina and Mother,

clothing.

The sounds of trains not far off.

They carry the stuff into the warehouse.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Szpilman and the others bring their piles of things into

the warehouse, which is crammed with similar objects, an

Aladdin's cave.

The activity continuous.

INT. SLEEPING QUARTERS, ABOVE WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

semi-darkness. A large room with an improvised partition

of blankets to separate the men from the women. Three-tiered

bunks.

On the men's side, Father is on the upper bunk, Henryk on

the lower. Szpilman, stripping down to his underwear, is

preparing to climb into the middle bunk.

Szpilman nods, climbs into his bunk, settles down. Somewhere

near, the sound of a train.

Then a volley of shots, German voices shouting.

Szpilman slips off his bunk, hurries to the door, opens it

and comes face to face with a German NCO and soldiers.

The NCO cracks Szpilman across the face, turns and goes.

Szpilman retreats into the room, his nose bleeding. The

women are watching from behind the blankets, but Mother

hurries towards Szpilman. She wipes his nose.

Shots, shouts, a scream.

EXT. WAREHOUSE YARD - DAWN

Still quite dark. The Szpilmans and about twenty others

lined up under lights shining on them from a couple of

German vehicles.

The NCO goes along the line, making a selection, using his

pistol to prod people into moving. When he gets to the

Szpilmans he selects Henryk and Halina. Then, he turns to

those who are left:

The NCO turns his pistol on the young woman and shoots her

through the head. He marches off while she lies on the

ground with blood spurting out of her.

INT. SZPILMAN ROOMS, WAREHOUSE - DAWN

The partition has been pulled aside. People, including the

Szpilmans, are dressing or dressed, packing up their

belongings.

Sounds of shots, screams, shouts, a piercing whistle.

EXT. STREET LEADING TO UMSCHLAGPLATZ - MORNING

Hot, fine summer's day. Jews, among them Szpilman, Mother,

Regina and father, clutching their meagre belongings, walk

towards wooden gates and come to a halt. Jewish policemen

approach and order the people about, pushing and shoving

them into line.

The gates are opened.

They shuffle forward.

EXT. UMSCHLAGPLATZ - DAY

Szpilman, Mother, Regina and Father, with others, enter

through one of the gates, which closes on them. They pause

for a moment to take in their new surroundings.

The Szpilmans and their POV:

Their first sight of the large rectangle, walled on two

sides and overlooked by buildings. Several hundred people.

People walk up and down.

But he stops again, and so do the others. Something they

see causes them to stand stock still, expressionless.

THE SZPILMANS' POV:

An unoccupied space at the edge of the compound where

bloated, decaying bodies lie near to a wall. The wall itself

is spattered with blood. Large flies walk over the dead.

Nobody goes near.

THE SZPILMANS:

Szpilman turns away and leads the others to another space.

Later:

Glaring sun. The Szpilmans have settled down on the kerb

of a pavement and are waiting. Szpilman stands, observing

the scene.

Mother sits on a bundle of things, staring vacantly, her

hair hanging down in strands. Regina, beside her, has her

hands over her face and is weeping, the tears running

through her fingers.

Father walks nervously up and down, hands behind his back,

four steps one way, four steps back. Near them, a YOUNG

WOMAN begins to wail.

A young man, beside her, whispers to her, but she does not

seem to take in what he's saying. Her cries continue at

intervals.

The sound of trucks. Everyone looks towards the gates.

More Jews are being unloaded from trucks and are marched

through the gates. Mothers, children, old people, begging,

most of them holding papers. Pandemonium.

Later:

The sun high, blazing. Szpilman is wandering around,

occasionally greeting people. The place is crowded now,

packed. Trucks bring more and more Jews at intervals.

Old people lying down, exhausted, impossible to tell whether

some of them are alive or dead. Women carrying dehydrated

children drag themselves from group to group. One WOMAN

approaches Szpilman.

Szpilman shakes his head sadly. The woman with child wanders

off to another group.

Szpilman turns to see a man, DR. EHRLICH, haranguing Father.

Szpilman goes to them.

Another man, Grun, joins in.

A loud cry from Mother. Szpilman and Father spin round.

Near the gates, among a large bunch of new arrivals, Henryk

and Halina.

Regina and Szpilman also call and wave. Henryk and Halina

struggle through to them. Halina falls into Mother's arms

and they hug.

Mother comforts her. And so does Regina. Father smiles

sadly.

Szpilman stands and stares at her.

Later:

The sun lower but the heat still intense.

The place is now packed to suffocation. People calling out

names, trying to find each other. The wailing of women and

the cries of children.

A cordon of Jewish policemen and SS guards are, almost

surreptitiously, ringing the compound.

The Szpilmans sit in the same place, with Henryk sitting a

little apart and now reading a small book.

Grun leans across to her.

Halina looks at him in disbelief.

Later:

Szpilman and Henryk.

Szpilman takes the book and reads the title page:

THE MERCHANT OF VENICE BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.

Later:

The Szpilmans seated on the kerb. Their attention is caught

by a BOY who has a box of sweets on a string round his

neck. And he's setting the sweets, pocketing money.

Father calls to the Sweet Boy and beckons him over.

They search their pockets and handbags, hand over to Father

what change they can find. He, in turn, hands the money to

the Sweet Boy, who hands over one caramel and goes on his

way.

Father holds the caramel between thumb and forefinger and

examines it carefully. Then, carefully takes out his

penknife and with great care divides the caramel into six

pans. He hands a part to each of the family.

They all exchange a look, an acknowledgement of each other,

almost like a toast, and then they chew, slowly,

deliberately.

The whistle of a locomotive. Sound of trucks rattling over

the rails.

At once, a sound of great agitation from the Jews in the

compound.

EXT. RAILWAY SIDING - DAY

The locomotive pulling cattle and goods trucks comes into

sight, rolling slowly towards the boundary of the

Umschlagplatz and coming to a halt.

EXT. RAILWAY SIDING - DAY

A cordon of Jewish policeman and SS guards. Among the great

throng of people, the Szpilmans trudge towards the train.

Szpilman and Halina walking.

THE TRAIN:

The Szpilmans near the train. The first trucks are already

full, the people inside pressed close together, SS men

pushing them with their rifle butts.

People in the trucks cry out in desperation.

The Szpilmans are pushed along by SS men along the cordon

of Jewish policemen, past loaded trucks.

Then, suddenly:

A Jewish policeman grabs Szpilman by his collar and pulls

him back out of the police cordon. It's Heller. The rest

of the family have reached the next truck to be filled.

A scuffle as Szpilman tries to resist. Another Jewish

policeman shoves him.

Szpilman stumbles, falls to the ground, in front of him

the closed ranks of the Jewish policemen's backs.

He stands, runs at the cordon, seeing between their heads,

shoulders, Mother, Regina, Henryk and Halina clambering

into the trucks. Father is looking around, bewildered.

Father sees him, takes a step towards him, but stops,

smiling helplessly. He raises his hand and waves, then

turns and goes towards the trucks.

Again, Szpilman flings himself at the policemen's shoulders.

Heller turns on him.

Szpilman stands for a moment, confused, terrified. Then he

turns and starts to run.

Szpilman drops to walking pace, makes for the gates. Workers

are pushing carts piled with the bloated corpses that lay

against the wall. Szpilman falls in with them and they

pass through the gates.

EXT. TRAIN - DAY

The doors of the trucks are closed. The train begins to

move. Slow, laborious. From the trucks, the faint cries of

the occupants.

EXT.  STREET BY THE SIDING - DAY

Szpilman catches his breath by a building. An SS man and

Jewish policeman emerge. The Jewish policeman is servile,

crawling to the German. He points to the train -

They laugh as they walk away. Szpilman turns and stumbles

down the empty street. The cries from the trucks fading.

He begins to weep, loud, agonised sobs, and staggers on.

EXT.  GHETTO STREET - EVENING

Szpilman, lost, empty, aimless, tries to catch his breath

in the aftermath of his tears.

He wanders forlornly down the street, passing empty

buildings with their doors open, windows smashed. Furniture,

torn mattresses and pillows lie scattered. Feathers fly.

Desolation.

He turns a corner.

EXT. COURTYARD, JEHUDA'S STREET - EVENING

Szpilman comes into the courtyard. He stops, his face blank.

Lying outside the door, the bodies of Jehuda, Mrs. Zyskind,

their two sons and the toddler.  Szpilman steps across the

bodies.

INT. JEHUDA ZYSKIND'S ROOM - EVENING

Chaos. Papers, pamphlets strewn all over the place. The

mimeograph smashed.

Szpilman enters, stands, surveying the devastation.

Distant sounds of shooting, shouts, cries.

He gathers up some papers in a pile, takes off his jacket

and covers the pile of papers, making a pillow. He lies

down on the floor.

He stares into the darkness, expressionless, empty.

EXT. STREET NEAR CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY

Szpilman shuffles along, comes to the cafe. No sign of

life, but the door is wide open. He goes inside.

INT. CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY

A shambles. Szpilman wanders through the upturned tables,

broken chairs. Stops, looks about. Nothing.

Distant shots, automatic fire.

He turns and makes for the door. Then he hears an urgent

hiss. He turns sharply and tries to find the source of it.

He hears the hiss again.

Now he sees, hiding under the platform, Benek, beckoning

to him. Szpilman hurries over and crawls on his back until

he's beside him. Benek replaces a plank and they are hidden

from view.

INT. UNDER THE PLATFORM, GHETTO CAFE - DAY

Thin slivers of light illuminate the two men on their backs

in the cramped space.

He can't continue. Benek nods.

EXT.  GHETTO STREET - DAY

In bright sun, Szpilman and Benek march in a column, four

abreast, under the command of two Jewish foremen, guarded

by two German policemen. They are being marched out of the

ghetto gates.

EXT. ZELAZNA BRAMA SQUARE - DAY

Street traders with baskets full of wares, fruit,

vegetables, fish, tins of preserves. Women bargain with

them, making purchases. Lively, colourful. Dealers in gold

and currency calling monotonously.

Later:

Szpilman, on top of a free-standing scaffold, Benek and

the others demolishing a ghetto wall, wielding skdgehammers.

They work slowly.

A smartly dressed young couple are passing, but stop.

They stare. The young woman is extremely attractive and

knows it. The foremen, workers and the German policemen

ogle her.

Her young man is puzzled; she points.

Embarrassed, she giggles and they go. Szpilman, Benek and

the others continue to work.

The foremen sit, sunning themselves, and the German

policemen stand, deep in conversation, ignoring the workers.

Szpilman suddenly stops work. He has seen something in the

square that alerts him.

At the furthest stall, he sees a woman, attractive, chic,

in her thirties, buying vegetables at a stall.  Her name

is JANINA GODLEWSKA.

Surreptitiously, Szpilman raises a hand, trying to catch

her attention. But he's frightened of alerting the German

policemen and the foremen. Benek has noticed.

Again Szpilman tries, but Janina, her profile to him,

doesn't see.

He goes back to work.

The German policemen wander over to one of the stalls to

buy fruit. The moment they do so two Jewish workers scamper

across to another stall to buy bread.

Szpilman glances across the square: Janina is still at the

stall.

He comes to a decision. He jumps down, is about to dash

towards Janina, but stops dead.

Janina is no longer there.

EXT. GHETTO STREET - DAY

As before, Szpilman and Benek march towards the ghetto

gates in the demolition column, four abreast, under the

command of the Jewish foremen and guarded by the two German

policemen.

Suddenly:

The column halts before a young SS man, wild-eyed, with

his sleeves rolled up and wielding a pistol. He talks

excitedly to the policemen then turns, walks along the

column dividing them up: some men to the right, others,

seven of them, to the left. Benek he orders to the left,

Szpilman to the right.

Young SS man turns to those on the left.

Terrified, they obey. He stands over them and, one by one,

shoots them. When he comes to Benek, the seventh man, his

pistol runs out of ammunition. He changes the clip, shoots

Benek and marches off.

EXT. BUILDING SITE, OUTSIDE GHETTO - DAY

Szpilman, bent almost double, carries a hod on his back

piled with bricks. He is mounting a wooden ramp that runs

up beside scaffolding on a small building site where an

extra floor is being added to a house. There are Polish

workers, too, who don't, of course, wear armbands as the

Jews do. There's a wooden hut serving as a store on the

site.

Halfway up the ramp, Szpilman hears someone whistle. He

stops, turns to see, at the bottom of the ramp, Majorek,

smiling and giving a discreet wave.

Later:

Szpilman and Majorek sip gruel out of mugs. They sit apart

from the others who are also taking a break.

Brief silence.

Whistle blows.

A little later:

Szpilman again mounting the ramp with a hod full of bricks

on his back. The noise of airplanes overhead.

EXT. SKY - DAY

A swarm of Russian bombers. Anti-aircraft fire. Puffs of

exploding shells.

EXT. BUILDING SITE - DAY

The workers look up. So does Szpilman and, as he does so,

the bricks slide off his hod, crashing to the ground below.

An SS man, ZICK-ZACK (his nickname), with a whip, approaches

Szpilman.

Szpilman goes to him. Enraged, Zick-Zack grabs him by the

hair and presses his head hard between his thighs and then

beats him mercilessly.

After a dozen or so strokes, Szpilman falls forward and

lies in the dirt. Zick-Zack nods, satisfied.

Two Poles, without armbands, one of them Bartczak, drag

him away.

Bartczak and the other man help Szpilman to his feet.

INT./EXT. STORES AND BUILDING SITE - DAY

Winter. Rain. Cold. The store, a wooden hut, contains wood,

nails, tools, paint, metal brackets.

Szpilman sits at a table, where a line of workers has

formed. Szpilman makes a record in a ledger of the tools

each worker takes out on the site.

A worker puts his head into the store.

The Jewish workers start to assemble on the site in

haphazard ranks as an SS Captain strides in.

The SS Captain, with much jollity and jokes, hops up on to

scaffolding and stands, beaming broadly, surveying the

workers.

A glance between Szpilman and Majorek.

He beams; no reaction from the workers.

Rubs thumb and forefinger and leers; still no reaction;

his smile vanishes.

EXT. BUILDING SITE - DAY

Snow. Majorek pulls a barrow by a rope attached to its

shaft across the site. On the barrow, five sacks. The Jewish

workers are phased to see him.

Majorek pulls the barrow to where Szpilman waits.

Szpilman nods and starts unloading the sacks as Majorek

moves away.

INT.  STORES - DAY

Szpilman has unpacked the sacks and laid them in the corner.

He kneels before the smallest of the sacks and unties the

string around its neck.

He puts his hand inside the sack and potatoes tumble out.

He reaches to the bottom and is still as his hand finds

something. Carefully, he removes a pistol, then another,

both wrapped in oil cloths. He hides them under his jacket.

INT./EXT.  STORES AND BUILDING SITE - NIGHT

Szpilman and a Jewish worker distribute the potatoes to

the other Jewish workers lined up with empty containers of

various kinds. There are scales on the table, and they

weigh out five kilos of potatoes, pour them into the men's

containers and drop in a loaf of bread.

EXT. STREET LEADING TO GHETTO - NIGHT

The Jewish workers, all carrying their parcels of potatoes

and bread, march back towards the ghetto gates escorted by

two Polish policemen. Szpilman walks beside them. Ahead of

him, Majorek near the front of the column.

As the column nears the ghetto gates, Majorek tosses his

package over the wall and when Szpilman reaches the same

spot, he throws a similar package. The column marches on.

INT. JEWISH BARRACKS - NIGHT

A small room with several three-tiered bunk beds. The sound

of men's heavy breathing and snoring.

Szpilman lies awake, staring at the ceiling. He reaches

inside his jacket, finds a scrap of paper and a pencil,

writes something.

He slips off his bunk and crosses to another set of bunks,

crouches down at the bottom one, where Majorek sleeps.

Majorek is instantly awake.

Majorek takes the paper but says nothing. He turns over

and goes back to sleep. Szpilman returns to his bunk.

INT. STORES - DAY

Szpilman has unloaded the sacks of potatoes into the corner

and is kneeling, about to untie the string on the smallest

sack. A sound alerts him. He looks round.

An SS Lieutenant has entered the stores, sucking his finger,

which is bleeding.

Szpilman immediately hurries to a cupboard, finds a First

Aid tin, removes a plaster and gives it to the SS

Lieutenant.

He indicates the sacks with his chin.

The SS Lieutenant walks over to the sacks and kicks the

smallest one.

Szpilman tries to untie the string, but he's too terrified

and can't manage it. The SS Lieutenant shoves him out of

the way, then takes from his belt a dagger and cuts the

string.

The SS Lieutenant reaches in and withdraws a handful of

long yellow beans. He glowers at Szpilman, reaches in again,

produces a handful of oatmeal.

He throws the oatmeal in Szpilman's face.

He kicks Szpilman viciously and marches away. Szpilman

catches his breath, then quickly reaches into the bottom

of the sack and finds a pistol and ammunition. He hides

them under his clothes.

EXT. STREET LEADING TO GHETTO - NIGHT

Freezing cold. The Jewish workers, with their bundles of

potatoes and bread, march back towards the ghetto gates

escorted by the two Polish policemen. In the column,

Szpilman, near the policeman with the moustache, and a

little behind them, Majorek. Distant sounds of gunfire.

Majorek falls in beside Szpilman.

Sudden, frantic cries from the head of the column, which

comes to a stop.

Two SS men, blind drunk, drinking vodka from bottles, are

lashing the column with whips. One of them is Zikk-Zack, .

As the SS men advance on Szpilman and Majorek's section,

Majorek slips back to his place in the column. Szpilman

hides his package inside his coat.

Zick-Zack lashes out at the workers blindly.

He takes a swig of vodka and comes face to face with

Szpilman.

He is staring directly at Szpilman with glassy eyes.

Szpilman is terrified, trying as surreptitiously as possible

to cover his hidden package with his hands. A moment of

danger. Zick-Zack grabs Szpilman by the cottar.

No response; shaking him.

He and his comrade find this hilarious; recovering from

his laughter.

The column starts to march. ....

A brief silence, then from the back, a solo voice starts

to sing, 'Children of Warsaw will go to fight!'

Szpilman glances back, sees that it's Majorek singing.

Szpilman smiles, Majorek nods. Szpilman joins in. Now, so

do the others.

They march on, singing lustily.

The column reaches the lamp posts near the ghetto gates.

Szpilman his package over the wall. So does Majorek.

INT./EXT. STORES AND BUILDING SITE - EVENING

The Jewish workers lined up to get their potatoes and bread.

Szpilman and two others weigh the potatoes.

Calmly, Szpilman leaves the table with the scales, walks

past Majorek and the others, who, having got their potatoes,

are assembling in a column, preparing to march back into

the ghetto. The Polish workers have packed up their tools

and are talking among themselves, also about to leave the

site but in a casual way.

The SS guards shout orders for the Jewish column to move

off. Szpilman seems as if he's going to join them, but at

the last moment turns and falls in with the Polish workers,

beside Barczak, who just glances at him then moves so that

Szpilman is in the middle of the group.

Szpilman slips off his armband, stuffs it into his pocket.

The group walk into the darkness.

EXT. WISNIOWA STREET - NIGHT

Dimly lit. Empty street. Szpilman walks fast to the corner,

stops, looks round anxiously. Nothing. He takes the armband

from his pocket and drops it through the grating of a drain

in the gutter just as there's movement in a darkened

doorway. Szpilman tenses.

Then, out of the darkness of the doorway, a woman: JANINA

GODLEWSKA.

She turns and starts to walk quickly. Szpilman, putting

the collar of his coat up, follows, keeping pace. A

pedestrian walks past in the opposite direction but pays

them no attention.

Janina and Szpilman walk on.

EXT. BOGUCKI BUILDING - NIGHT

Janina comes to the front door, opens it with a key, goes

in. Szpilman, a little distance behind, catches up and

follows her inside.

INT. HALL, STAIRS AND 3RD FLOOR, BOGUCKI BUILDING - NIGHT

Janina waits as Szpilman closes the front door, then starts

up the stairs. Szpilman follows. She stops, turns to him,

smiles, kisses him on the cheek, then continues up the

stairs.

INT. BOGUCKI APARTMENT - NIGHT

ANDRZEJ BOGUCKI, a handsome man, fortyish, tries to conceal

his sense of shock at seeing Szpilman He holds out his

hand and Szpilman shakes it.

Szpilman looks around the nicely furnished, large apartment.

He looks at Bogucki and Janina. Tears well up in his eyes.

He fights it hard, not to cry. So does Janina.

INT. SMALL BATHROOM, BOGUCKI APARTMENT - NIGHT

Szpilman lies in a steaming bath, eyes closed, as though

he's in a trance.

A gentle knock on the door and Bogucki slips in with some

clothes. He gazes at Szpilman, whose eyes remain closed.

Bogucki holds up a towel. Szpilman lifts himself out of

the bath and dries himself.

INT. LIVING ROOM, BOGUCKI APARTMENT - LATER

The ceramic stove. Szpilman's ghetto clothes, torn into

strips, are being stuffed into it and burned. Janina shoves

the strips of clothes into the stove. Szpilman, now wearing

Bogucki's suit and clean-shaven, watches the clothes burn

while he spoons hot soup into his mouth.

Janina adds the last strip of clothing.

EXT. WARSAW STREETS - NIGHT

A rickshaw carrying Szpilman and Bogucki travels along the

dark streets.

EXT. GEBCZYNSKI'S STORE - NIGHT

The rickshaw comes to a halt outside a store. The moment

it stops the shutters of the store are raised and Bogucki

escorts Szpilman to the door, then quickly returns to the

rickshaw, which moves off fast.

INT. GEBCZYNSKI'S STORE - NIGHT

GEBCZNYSKI shakes hands with Szpilman, ushers him in and

then pulls down the shutter.

Gebczynski's store is for sanitary furnishings and supplies:

lavatories, basins, baths, taps etc.

He leads the way and as he goes he picks up a cushion from

a chair and a blanket. Szpilman follows.

STAIRS TO BASEMENT:

Gebczynski leads Szpilman down the stairs.

BASEMENT STORE ROOM:

Dark, shadowy. Shelves with taps, washers, pipes. Gebczynski

leads the may to a particular set of shelves. He puts aside

the cushion and blanket, then starts to push at the shelves.

Szpilman, although puzzled, helps. Slowly, the shelves

move to reveal a secret compartment.

He helps Szpilman into the compartment.

He hands over the cushion and the blanket to Szpilman;

then, putting his back to the shelves and his feet against

the wall, he pushes the shelves back into place so that

Szpilman is now hidden.

INT. SECRET COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

In the cramped space, Szpilman is not quite able to stretch

full out. With difficulty, he puts the cushion behind his

head, starts to cover himself with the blanket but stops,

seeing something.

In niches, neatly stacked: rifles, pistols, grenades,

ammunition

Szpilman stares, expressionless.

EXT. TRAM STOP, WARSAW STREET - AFTERNOON

Szpilman and Gebczynski wait with others at the stop as

the tram trundles towards them and comes to a halt.

As they board:

INT. TRAM (TRAVELLING) - AFTERNOON

Gebczynski and Szpilman apprehensive, push through the

rear section, packed with Poles, seated and standing, until

they reach a chain and a sign:

In the German section, only three or four passengers. Some

read newspapers, others stare into space or out of the

windows, but never looking at the Poles.

Szpilman tries to appear as inconspicuous as possible. The

tram rumbles on its way.

INT. 1ST APARTMENT, 4TH FLOOR LANDING AND DOOR - AFTERNOON

Gebczynski and Szpilman come up the stairs to the landing

and to a door. Gebczynski unlocks the door and they go in.

INT./EXT. 1ST APARTMENT, 4TH FLOOR, AND GHETTO - AFTERNOON

A charmingly furnished bed-sitting room with a comfortable

divan. Gebczynski leads the way in. Szpilman glances around,

goes to the window, looks out.

SZPILMAN'S POV:

He can see a section of ghetto wall below. Beyond it, inside

the ghetto, a narrow street leading to deserted buildings.

Gebczynski comes up behind him.

He leads Szpilman to the small kitchen.

Gebczynski opens a cupboard to reveal potatoes, bread.

He closes the cupboard.

THE MAIN ROOM.

Gebczynski makes for the front door, stops.

He hands over a scrap of paper, shakes Szpilman's hand and

goes quickly.

Alone, Szpilman stands, lost for a moment. Then, he takes

off his shoe and stuffs the scrap of paper into it. While

he does so, his eyes light on the divan bed.

He goes to it, slips off his other shoe and lies down,

testing the divan's springiness with his whole body.

He smiles beatifically. He shuts his eyes and is instantly

asleep.

INT./EXT. 1ST APARTMENT - DAY

Szpilman still fast asleep. Voices wake him. He opens his

eyes. He's not certain where he is for a moment.

He hears the voices again, coming from the adjoining flat.

Intrigued, he rises, goes closer to the watt, puts his ear

against it, listens. After a brief silence:

Silence.  Szpilman is enjoying himself.

Then the sound of a piano being played with great feeling

but a lot of wrong notes.

The piano continues for a moment, but suddenly stops:

A door slams.

Silence.  Szpilman smiles but then hears the sound of rifle

shots and a huge explosion.

He crosses quickly to the window, looks out.

SZPILMAN'S POV - THE GHETTO.

Deserted. Stillness. Silence. From the ghetto smoke drifting

slowly.

INT./EXT.  1ST APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING

Szpilman asleep on the divan. The roar of motor car and

motorcycle engines. Sporadic firing.

He wakes, rushes to the window.

SZPILMAN'S POV:

A German personnel carrier, an open car carrying officers,

and a motorcycle and sidecar roar down the narrow street

below towards the buildings at the far end. German soldiers

follow behind on the trot, pulling a field gun.

Unseen marksmen fire down on the Germans from the buildings.

As the German soldiers dismount from their vehicles one of

them is hit and falls. The others rush for cover.

EXT. INSIDE THE GHETTO - MINUTES LATER - EARLY MORNING

The German Commander and two officers alight from the car

and take cover.

The Commander orders the field gun to be trained on the

buildings. Spasmodic firing continues.

He gives the order to fire.

The gun roars. The shell tears into the building. At once

the German soldiers open fire with their rifles and lob

grenades into the building. The gun fires again.

The building begins to burn. Flames and smoke.

German soldiers with flame-throwers advance carefully then

unleash their fire into doorways and windows, and quickly

retreat.

At ground level, Jewish fighters try to fight their way

out and are mowed down.

The fire spreads quickly through the building. Smoke begins

to pour from the upper floors.

The Germans, less cautious now, stand and watch.

A woman struggles out on to her narrow third-floor balcony.

She climbs over, holds on to the wrought-iron railings and

hangs on for dear life. Shots ring out and she drops like

a stone.

From inside the building, screams and shouts.

From another upper window, a man in flames jumps and falls

to his death on the pavement below.

The Germans have stopped firing. They stand, spectators,

watching the building burn.

INT./EXT.  1ST APARTMENT - LATER - DAY

Szpilman at the window, watching, his mood downcast.

The noise of a key in the door.

He turns to see the door of the flat open. Janina enters

with a parcel of food. She kisses Szpilman on the cheek.

She hands him the parcel.

He goes into the small kitchen and unpacks the contents

while Janina gazes out of the window.

she turns to look again out of the window.

EXT. INSIDE THE GHETTO - EVENING

The building burning. Corpses lie scattered on the pavement.

The Germans stand about chatting and laughing.

A handful of Jewish fighters are lined up and shot.

Satisfied, the Commander returns to his car. Another officer

confers with him before the engine starts up and he is

driven away. The building burns.

EXT. 1ST APARTMENT, SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

Blazing sun. The ghetto buildings now burned-out shells,

the street empty.

EXT. 1ST APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

Autumn leaves falling and gusting in the wind. Szpilman

gazes out.

EXT./INT.  1ST APARTMENT - DAY

Snow. Ice on the windows.

The sound of the key in the door.

Szpilman turns as the door opens and Gebczynski enters,

distraught. Whispered, at speed:

Gebczynski takes out a cigarette and lights it. While he

does so:

And he goes. Szpilman listens to his footsteps clattering

down the stairs.

He sees the cigarette stub, takes it, lights it, coughs,

smokes awkwardly.

Later:

Szpilman hears a car engine and the screech of brakes. He

tenses. German voices shouting and their heavy footsteps

on the stairs.

He goes to the window, opens it. He gets a chair, places

it sideways in front of the window to make a step. He's

working out how best to throw himself out.

He leans against the wall near the door and waits..

Slamming of doors, German shouts, a scream.

Szpilman steels himself, ready to jump.

Again footsteps on the stairs, but this time descending. A

door slams.

He cautiously goes to the window and looks out.

INT./EXT. 1ST APARTMENT - DAY

SZPILMAN'S POV - THE STREET.

In the street below, he sees SS men escorting two prisoners

and shoving into a car. The car speeds off. The street is

empty.

INT.  1ST APARTMENT - DUSK

Snow. Howling wind.

Szpilman lies on the divan. He is cold, unshaven, hair

filthy and long. He manages to rise.

THE SMALL KITCHEN.

A mess. Szpilman goes into the kitchen. From a bread tin

he takes a small, flat greaseproof paper parcel and unwraps

it. A slice of bread, stale and mouldy. He tries to bite

it but can't. He finds a knife and tries to chop a piece

off the bread but knocks the bread tin, which falls to the

floor with a clatter.

He continues to try to cut the bread, when there's a loud

hammering on the front door.

Szpilman stiffens.

THE LIVING ROOM.

The hammering continues as Szpilman stumbles into the room,

looks around, confused, not knowing what to do.

From the other side of the door female voices, words

indistinct, and then:

He is galvanised into action, puts on a crumpled jacket,

grabs his tattered coat and scarf, collects up a few of

his things, stuffs them into a paper bag.

The hammering stops. Szpilman cautiously approaches the

door, listens, then opens it quietly and slips out.

INT.  1ST APARTMENT, LANDING AND DOOR - DUSK

He slips out of the flat, goes to the stairs and stops

dead. KITTY, young and fierce, stands on the stairs,

blocking his way.

Szpilman hesitates; she shouts more loudly.

On various floors, doors open, tenants put their heads out

to see what's going on.

Summoning all his strength, Szpilman makes a dash for it,

pushing past Kitty.

Szpilman clatters down the stairs, reaches the ground-floor

landing. Another woman tries to bar his way but he pushes

past her and out of the house.

EXT. STREET - EVENING

Heavy snow. Szpilman stumbles into the street and runs. He

darts down a side street.

EXT. SIDE STREET - EVENING

Szpilman lurches into the narrow street. No one about. He

stops, almost collapses, but manages to keep hold of

himself. He puts on his coat and wraps the scarf round his

neck. He leans up against a wall.

He removes a shoe and takes out the scrap of paper

Gebczynski gave him. He reads it.

EXT. NARBUTT STREET - NIGHT

Szpilman drags himself along, trudging through snow and

slush. Passers-by give him a wide berth. He tries to walk

normally, with dignity, but he's weak and slips, and finds

the going hard.

He comes to a villa.

INT. VILLA, NARBUTT STREET - NIGHT

He goes to the front door, rings the bell and waits.

The door opens and Dorota stands there. She is pregnant.

They stand for a moment staring at each other.

INT. DOROTA'S VILLA - NIGHT

Szpilman follows Dorota into the living room.

Szpilman sits down slowly.

Awkward silence. He gazes at her. She looks away.

He nods. Brief silence.

Again, the awkward silence.

The door opens and Michal Dzikiewicz enters. He sees

Szpilman and stops. Szpilman stands.

He shakes hands with Szpilman.

Szpilman, dizzy, leans on the table for support.

He and Dorota look at him.

INT. DOROTA'S VILLA - MORNING

Szpilman asleep on the sofa. The sound of a cello. He opens

his eyes. Listens.

He swings his legs off the sofa, stands, and crosses to a

door. Quietly, he opens it a little.

Szpilman and his POV - another room.

Dorota, partially turned away from him, plays Bach on the

cello.

Szpilman watches her and listens.

INT. 2ND APARTMENT (4TH FLOOR), LANDING AND DOOR - NIGHT

A padlock being unlocked. Then, a key is inserted into the

Yale lock, turned, and the door opens.

Michal and Szpilman on the landing, enter the flat.

INT./EXT. 2ND APARTMENT AND STREET - NIGHT

A large room, sparsely furnished but with an upright piano

and a bed.

Michal carries a bag of provisions and puts them on a table

while Szpilman goes immediately to the window and looks

out.

SZPILMAN'S POV:

There are views of the city, but in the street below,

opposite, is a hospital and, on the corner, a building

flying a Nazi flag and guarded by a sentry, standing at

his sentry-box.

Michal comes up behind Szpilman.

THE APARTMENT:

Michal makes for the door.

He nods and goes. The sound of the padlock closing. Szpilman

takes in the room. He sees the piano, is still for a moment,

then goes to it.

He sits on the piano stool and adjusts its height. He opens

the lid. A cloth covers the keys. He removes the cloth. He

gazes lovingly at the keyboard. He flexes his fingers.

Then, without touching the keys, his fingers floating just

above them, he plays. Silently. Passionately.

EXT. CITY SKYLINE. POINT OF VIEW THROUGH WINDOW - DAY

Snow falling.

INT. 2ND APARTMENT - DAY

Szpilman alert, hearing the padlock being unlocked and

then iheYdle. The door opens and Michal enters, accompanied

by a man, aged about thirty, Szalas, confident, a little

brash.

In whispers:

Szalas and Szpilman shake hands.

Szalas produces a quarter bottle of vodka, thumps the back

of the bottle so that the cork flies out. He finds glasses

and pours. While he does all this:

He gives the others their vodka.

They clink glasses and drink.

EXT. 2ND APARTMENT - DAY

Summer. Trees in leaf.

Comings and goings at the Schutzpolizei building. And an

ambulance draws up at the hospital, disgorging a couple of

stretcher cases, who are carried inside.

INT. 2ND APARTMENT - DAY

very weak and his skin yellowish, drops four beans into

boiling water.

The Sound of the padlock being opened.

Szpilman hurries to see the door open and Szalas enter

with a small and grinning cheerfully.

In whispers:

He hands over the package. You still got that vodka?

Szpilman stares at the package.

Szalas shrugs, finds the vodka, pours two glasses

He unwraps the package to reveal sausage and bread. He

takes a bite of sausage, chewing deliberately, slowly.

Szalas goes to the window, looks out.

Szpilman thinks for a moment, then takes off his wristwatch,

hands it to Szalas.

Szalas pockets the watch, makes for the door, stops.

He grins, downs Szpilman's vodka, gives a mock salute and

goes.  Hie padlock is locked on the other side. Szpilman

enjoys his sausage.

INT. 2ND APARTMENT - DAY

Sunshine floods in through the windows.

Szpilman lies inert on the bed, weak, starving, ill.

The sound of the padlock. He doesn't stir.

Dorota, no longer pregnant, and Michal enter, come to the

bed.

In whispers:

Szpilman barely has strength to open his eyes and focus on

them. He mutters incoherently.

She starts for the door.

He leaves. The padlock sound.

Dorota goes to the kitchen, wets a towel, comes back to

the bed, kneels it, places the towel on Szpilman's brow.

He focuses on her, smiles.

Szpilman suddenly winces with pain.

She looks at him; barely audible.

Later:

Szpilman looks up at Dr Luczak, who has a stethoscope in

his ears. Dorota and Michal stand behind him.

The Doctor and Michal leave his line of vision.

Dorota moves in beside him.

Szpilman tries again to say something, but he can't, just

lies there, distressed.

EXT./INT. APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

Szpilman looking down from the fourth-floor window.

Peaceful. A few pedestrians. An everyday atmosphere.

At the far end, at the T-junction with a main road, a tram

rumbles down the street and comes to a halt, disgorging

passengers on the far side and so out of sight.

The tram continues on its way, now revealing the few

passengers who alighted '97 women, an old man with a stick.

Last, three young Poles, carrying long objects wrapped in

newspaper.

One of the men looks at his watch, glances around, then

suddenly kneels and puts the package he's carrying to his

shoulder. The sound of rapid firing, which makes the

newspaper at the end of the packet glow to reveal the barrel

of a machine gun.

His two companions have also put their packages to their

shoulders and begin shooting, all aiming their fire at the

Schutzpolizei building.

The sentry is hit and falls in front of his box.

As if these young men have given a signal, now from all

over the city comes the sound of gunfire.

The pedestrians have scattered except for the old man,

gasping for breath, hobbling on his walking stick, who

eventually manages to disappear inside a building.

Rifle and machine-gun fire from the Schutzpolizei building.

The firing intense. The three young Poles manoeuvre to the

corner opposite the Schutzpolizei and toss grenades into

the building.

EXT. DOWN IN THE STREET - DAY

A battle raging.

The Germans firing from the hospital.

The three young Poles have been joined by other fighters

and they the Schutzpolizei building.

Grenades thrown, machine-gun fire exchanged.

The sentry box blows up, splinters of wood cascading. A

couple of Poles make a dash for it and enter a building

opposite to the Schutzpolizei.

EXT./INT. 2ND APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

Szpilman watching from his window, looks in the opposite

direction and sees smoke rising.

When he turns back to look towards the T-junction, he sees

a Panzerfaust anti-tank rocket firer poking out from a

window in the next-door building but on the floor below.

The Panzerfaust fires. The shell hits the hospital.

EXT. CITY SKYLINE - NIGHT

The city in flames.

Sound of firing becoming sporadic, less intense. Isolated

explosions.

INT. 2ND APARTMENT - NIGHT

Szpilman, lying on the bed, staring at the ceiling.

EXT. 2ND APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

The interior of the Schutzpolizei building burnt to cinders.

An ambulance is being loaded with patients from the

hospital.

A horse-drawn cab rounds a corner and clatters down the

street.

INT./EXT. 2ND APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

Szpilman at the window, watching.

The horse-drawn cab clatters out of his sight. He is about

to draw back when he sees, directly beneath him, a man and

woman walking with their hands in the air. Then, a German

soldier, pointing his rifle at their backs, appears.

Suddenly, the man and woman begin to run.

The man turns and disappears. The woman also turns, but

the German soldier drops to one knee and fires.

The woman clutches her stomach, drops slowly to her knees

and collapses on the street in an awkward kneeling position,

and that's how she remains.

Szpilman watches, aghast. Then, he hears voices outside

his door, shouts, footsteps, panic.

THE APARTMENT:

He runs to his front door and listens.

More clatter of footsteps. Then:

Footsteps descending stairs, more shouts, and:

Szpilman runs to the door, tries it but it's padlocked and

he can't open the door.

In panic, he runs back to the window.

His eyes grow wide with terror.

SZPILMAN'S POV: AGAIN THE STREET.

A German tank bringing its gun to bear on the building

next to his.

The gun jerks back and there's a great roaring noise.

The whole building shakes. Szpilman reek back, falls, gets

to his feet and crawls back to the window.

He sees the tank turret swivelling slowly, bringing the

gun to bear directly on a lower floor of his building. The

roaring noise again.

A terrific explosion. His windows are shattered. Glass

everywhere. He is thrown back across the room. Smoke begins

to billow and fill the room.

INT. 2ND APARTMENT AND ADJOINING APARTMENT - DAY

Smoke filling the room. Szpilman gets to his knees, peers

through the smoke and sees that the wall separating his

apartment from the one next door has been partially

destroyed, with a large hole blasted in it. He stumbles

into the next-door apartment and out of the front door.

INT. 4TH AND 5TH FLOOR LANDINGS - DAY

Smoke everywhere. Szpilman staggers up to the fifth-floor

landing. There's a metal attic door.

Szpilman pushes open the door and steps into the attic.

INT. ATTIC - DAY

The roof space with laundry drying on lines. Szpilman enters

the attic, closes the door, leans on it.

He looks round, sees that the roof has been shattered,

leaving a large, jagged gap. He climbs through the gap, on

to the roof at the back of the building.

INT. 4TH FLOOR LANDING - DAY

The attic door being kicked in by a German boot.

A German soldier, wearing his gas mask, bayonet fixed,

enters the attic, looks round, sees nothing, then:

The soldier turns and hurries out.

INT. ROOF, BACK OF BUILDING - DAY

On the sloping roof, Szpilman clutches the skylight and

has his feet in the roof gutter.

He listens - all quiet in the house.

And then a bullet ricochets off the tiles beside him.

Szpilman, terrified, drops, involuntarily catching a lower

edge so that his feet dangle above a balcony below. More

shots. He drops on to the balcony and looks back.

EXT. ROOFTOP, TWO STREETS AWAY - DAY

Two German soldiers are firing at Szpilman.

INT. ROOF, BACK OF BUILDING - DAY

Szpilman clambers back into the building through the smashed

balcony door. A couple of shots dangerously close.

INT. STAIRCASE - DAY

Smoke. Szpilman staggers down the stairs, stumbles over a

corpse and almost falls headlong.

EXT. GARDEN AND BACKYARD - LATE AFTERNOON

The sun is setting.

Szpilman crawls into the backyard. He hears German voices

shouting commands. He hides behind three garbage bins by

the wall.

He waits. Listens.  Silence

EXT. STREET - EVENING

Deserted. Buildings on fire but dying out. Corpses in the

street, including the woman who was shot, still in her

strange kneeling position.

EXT. FRONT DOOR AND STREET - NIGHT

Szpilman watches from the doorway. Then, dropping down, he

crawls across the road on his stomach, threading his way

through the dead bodies, now besieged by flies, and makes

for the hospital opposite.

German soldiers appear from around a corner. Szpilman

immediately lies still, pretending to be just another

corpse. Flies alight on him. When the Germans pass, he

sets off again.

INT. RUINED HOSPITAL, OPERATING THEATRE - NIGHT

Dark.  Szpilman crawls into a corner, rests. He's exhausted.

He tries to take stock of his surroundings. He can make

out the operating table. He manages to drag himself on to

it.

He lies there, his eyes grow heavy. He sleeps.

EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY

German soldiers dragging the corpses into a pile.

A sergeant douses the bodies in petrol, then sets them

alight.

The bodies burn.

INT./EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

From a shattered window on the first floor, he looks at

the burning bodies.

Two German soldiers wander into his eyeline. He draws back

a little but watches them warily.

They sit just beneath him, chatting, and take out their

food-tins, drink coffee and eat bread.

INT. PASSAGE AND WARDS, RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY

Szpilman wanders down the passage, sees into the wards,

the empty beds, the broken furniture and medical equipment.

INT. KITCHEN, RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY

Szpilman opens cupboards, drawers, searching, but trying

to be as quiet as possible.

He sees the refrigerator, quickly gets to it, pulls open

the door. Empty.

He looks around and notices a red fire bucket with a spade

and a box of sand next to it. The bucket is full of water,

covered with an iridescent film and full of dead flies.

He drinks as much water as he can without swallowing the

flies and, while he's doing so, he spots a couple of sacks.

He opens the first: potatoes. The second contains barley.

He tries to eat the uncooked barley but can't.

Later:

A fire on the floor. Szpilman holds a saucepan over it and

is cooking the barley and some potatoes. He manages to

scoop out a spoonful, blows to cool it, then eats.

INT./EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

Szpilman at a window sees autumn leaves thick on the ground.

And at the end of the street, a line of Poles, some with

their hands in the air, others with hands on heads, being

marched away by German soldiers.

INT. WARD. RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY.

Szpilman lies in bed under several layers of blankets. Ice

on the windows. He hears German voices shouting commands.

He sits up.

INT./EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL, SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY

Szpilman gets to a window and looks out.

German soldiers with flame-throwers are burning the

buildings opposite.

One soldier, with a bucket of white paint and a brush,

numbers the building.

Szpilman cranes to see them reach the end of the street,

then cross over and start on the buildings on his side,

working their way towards the hospital.

He pulls away and makes for the back of the hospital.

INT. BACK OF RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY

Szpilman goes to a window, jumps out. He twists his ankle.

He's in pain. He crawls across the back garden and climbs

over the wall.

EXT. RUINED STREETS - DAY

Devastation, not a human being in sight.

Nothing. Emptiness.

He is alone.

Szpilman hobbles away.

EXT. RUINED VILLA - EVENING

Cautiously, Szpilman limps towards the villa, a once grand

building, but now partly damaged by shell fire.

He makes his way in.

INT. HALL, RUINED VILLA - EVENING

Szpilman enters the hall, still showing signs of its former

opulence. I Silent. Ominous.

He looks round anxiously, then sees the stairs leading

down to the basement. He hurries towards them and descends.

INT. KITCHEN, RUINED VILLA - EVENING

Dark, shadowy.

Szpilman comes down a flight of wooden stairs that had

directly into the kitchen.

Immediately, he begins to search fractically, opening

cupboards, drawers. He finds a can with a label illustrating

pickled cucumbers. Desperately, he searches for something

to open it with.

He discovers a pair of scales with a variety of weights.

He seizes one of the weights when, very close, he hears

the sound of a car coming to a halt, then the car door

slam, a German voice giving commands.

He drops the weight but, holding the tin, he scampers up

the stairs.

INT. BACK STAIRS, RUINED VILLA - EVENING

Szpilman, clutching the unopened tin, makes his way up the

narrow, wooden staircase.

INT. TOP FLOOR, RUINED VILLA - EVENING

Szpilman, panting heavily, reaches the top floor. He sees

a small door, tries it. It opens.

INT. ATTIC AND LOFT, RUINED VILLA - EVENING

Szpilman enters, closing the small door behind him. He

leans back, resting, recovering.

And then he hears from down below a piano playing a

Beethoven piece.

After a few bars, the music stops. Szpilman listens

anxiously. Silence.

He looks around, finding himself in an attic space filled

with junk, a ladder, rotting material, travelling trunks.

Last light of day filtering through a dormer window.

There's a ladder leading up to a trapdoor. Szpilman climbs

the ladder.

He crawls into a small empty space. With enormous effort

he pulls up the ladder and closes the trapdoor.

Exhausted and trying to catch his breath, he gazes at the

unopened tin. He peers through the darkness but sees

nothing.

His eyes begin to droop.

EXT. WARSAW CITY SKYLINE - NIGHT

Artillery fire. Fires glow on the horizon.

INT. LOFT, RUINED VILLA - NIGHT

Szpilman wakes suddenly. He listens. Silence but for the

distant gunfire. He sees the unopened tin of pickles, stares

at it. He opens the trapdoor.

INT. BACK STAIRS, RUINED VILLA - NIGHT

Szpilman, a shadow, a spectre, creeps down the stairs.

INT. KITCHEN, RUINED VILLA - NIGHT

Szpilman has placed the tin and the weight on a shelf and

is engrossed in searching again. He finds a pair of chicken

scissors. Using the weight, he starts to hammer the point

of the scissors into the tin making a perforation round

the rim.

The tin slips off the shelf and rolls across the floor

coming to rest at a pair of highly polished jackboots.

Szpilman stifles a gasp.

On the stairs, in silhouette, gazing down at him, the figure

of a GERMAN CAPTAIN, the thumb of one hand caught in his

belt above his pistol.

Szpilman just stares at him.

No response.

No response.

He studies Szpilman for a moment, then with a nod orders

him to follow. Szpilman picks up the tin and follows.

INT. ROOMS, RUINED VILLA - NIGHT

Szpilman follows the German Captain through a double door,

hanging off its hinges, into a room with a broken table in

the centre, what once was the dining room. And then through

another set of doors. The German Captain's boots echo.

They come into a spacious room. Faint moonlight filters

through the large windows. Fallen masonry and broken glass.

A couple of chairs. And a grand piano in the corner.

The German Captain points at the piano.

Szpilman hesitates, then limps to the piano, puts down the

tin, and opens the lid. He turns and drags one of the chairs

over and sits.

The German Captain stands and watches.

Szpilman glances surreptitiously at his hands, and then he

plays Chopin.

The German Captain listens, expressionless. The pale

moonlight shows him to be a handsome, elegant man.

Szpilman finishes playing.

Silence.

Somewhere, a cat mews. Distant burst of rifle fire.

The German Captain stares at Szpilman. After a moment:

Szpilman nods.

Long pause. Szpilman just stares at him.

Szpilman hesitates, takes the tin and then shuffles past

the German Captain towards the door.

INT. ATTIC AND LOFT AREA, RUINED VILLA - NIGHT

Szpilman and the German Captain enter.

The German Captain takes out a flashlight, sees the ladder

in place, leading up to the loft.

Szpilman climbs the ladder, squeezes into the loft and

looks down at the German Captain, who shines his light on

him.

Szpilman shows him the tin.

He goes quickly, leaving Szpilman in darkness. Szpilman,

overcome by relief, can barely catch his breath.

EXT. RUINED VILLA - NIGHT

The German Captain strides out of the villa, down the front

steps to a waiting car and a driver. He gets into the car.

The driver starts the engine and the car speeds off into

the night.

INT. LOFT - NIGHT

Szpilman hears the car's engine growing fainter. He starts

to tremble and then begins to cry. He weeps uncontrollably.

INT. HALL, ROOMS, RUINED VILLA - DAY

Much activity: officers coming and going, orderlies typing.

Officers king on field telephones. Desks, filing cabinets.

The German Captain, carrying a bulging shoulder bag, marches

into a room just off the hall and goes to his desk just as

an orderly drops papers in his in-tray. On the desk, there's

a framed photograph of him nth a woman and two children.

German Captain glances at the papers, takes a pen, initials

one or two and then goes.

THE GRAND STAIRCASE:

The German Captain marches up the stairs purposefully, as

if he's on urgent business.

INT. LOFT AND ATTIC - DAY

The German Captain enters. He puts two fingers in his mouth

and whistles.

After a moment, the trapdoor shifts and Szpilman looks

down.

The German Captain takes a package from his shoulder bag

and throws it up into the loft. He turns to go.

The German Captain stops.

He goes quickly.

Szpilman opens the package, finds bread and marmalade.

Then he finds a tin-opener.

EXT.  RUINED VILLA - DAY

Snow. The sound of distant gunfire.

The Germans are evacuating the villa. Men carry out boxes,

filing cabinets, desks, papers and load them into trucks.

They're careless, leaving a trail of debris. No sentries

now.

INT. ATTIC AND LOFT AREA, RUINED VILLA - DAY

Szpilman, listening and shivering with cold. He hears the

whistle. He opens the trapdoor to see the German Captain

in the attic, carrying a package.

Szpilman descends.

Szpilman faces the German Captain.

He hands Szpilman the package. Szpilman opens it to find

inside several loaves of bread.

Silence. Szpilman shivers with cold. The German Captain

takes off his coat and gives it to him.

EXT. STREETS NEAR RUINED VILLA - DAY

Freezing weather.

Empty streets.

Then the sound of recorded music, as a car, with a

loudspeaker and a Polish national flag, comes into view,

the Polish national anthem blaring out from the speaker.

INT. LOFT - DAY

Szpilman, wearing the German Captain's coat and under the

eiderdown, hears the strange sound of the music, which he

recognises.

He's astonished, puzzled. He comes to a decision and starts

to leave.

INT./EXT. HALL AND STREET, RUINED VILLA - DAY

Cautiously, in his German military overcoat, Szpilman trots

down the staircase into the empty hall.

He goes to the front door, opens it a crack and cautiously

goes out.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Szpilman looks around, hearing the car loudspeaker

indistinctly.

His excitement grows and he walks out into the street.

He sees at one end soldiers serving soup from afield kitchen

to a group of people.

On the opposite side of the street, he sees a man and a

woman who have left the field kitchen. The man carries a

two-tiered canister.

Szpilman rushes towards them, grabs hold of the man and

tries to kiss him. The man, totally bewildered, tries to

fight him off. The woman is terrified.

She runs, yelling, towards the field kitchen. So does the

man.

Szpilman stands and stares, then sees one of the soldiers

cock his rifle and fire at him.

Szpilman runs, the firing continuing.

EXT. RUINS - DAY

Szpilman bolts into the doorway of a ruined building. He

peers out to see Polish soldiers beginning to surround the

ruined building, firing shots, lobbing in a grenade or

two.

More shots and another grenade explosion.

The Polish soldiers: Two of the officers stand near the

entrance, hearing Szpilman's shouts.

The Polish officers confer briefly in whispers. Then:

And they march him off.

EXT. LONG COUNTRY LANE AND HOLDING CAMP - DAY

Spring. Idyllic.

A column of men and women stretching along the length of

the lane. A couple of horse-and-carts. One or two bicycles.

Some of the people wear concentration camp garb, others in

tattered clothing.

Four men walk together and when they come to a narrow

junction, stop, seeing something

Behind barbed wire, German prisoners of war, guarded by

Russian soldiers. Desolate place. No shelters, no tents.

The POWs sit or lie on the ground, silent, broken,

shattered.

The four men gaze at them. :

The fourth man, ZYGMUNT LEDNICKI, approaches the barbed

wire.

He stands glowering at them, then sees a POW rise from a

group, wretched, shabby, unshaven. It's the German Captain,

uniform tattered, a wreck. He comes to the barbed wire.

A RUSSIAN GUARD, inside the compound, approaches, grabs

hold of the German Captain.

He drags the German Captain away from the wire.

The German Captain is being bundled away by the guard, who

aims a kick at him. The German Captain shouts out his name

but it's unintelligible.

The German Captain and the guard have disappeared. Lednicki

stands for a moment, then turns and goes.

INT. STUDIO, WARSAW RADIO STATION - DAY

Szpilman playing the piano. He looks something like his

former self, fairly well dressed and groomed.

He glances towards the glass booth and sees Lednicki with

the technicians. He smiles. Lednicki nods, smiles back.

EXT.  SITE OF POW CAMP - DAY

Szpilman and Lednicki looking around an empty field.

Lednicki goes.

Szpilman stands, looking around the empty field. He is

filled with sadness. He sits. He closes his eyes and put

his face to the sun.

SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION:

INT. CONCERT HALL - NIGHT

Szpilman plays Chopin's Piano Concerto No 1 with full

orchestra and conductor. He plays superbly. The music is

glorious.

