<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

THE BIG LEBOWSKI

We are floating up a steep scrubby slope.  We hear male voices

gently singing "Tumbling Tumbleweeds" and a deep, affable,

Western-accented voice--Sam Elliot's, perhaps:

We top the rise and the smoggy vastness of Los Angeles at

twilight stretches out before us.

INTERIOR   RALPH'S

It is late, the supermarket all but deserted.  We are tracking

in on a fortyish man in Bermuda shorts and sunglasses at the

dairy case.  He is the Dude.  His rumpled look and relaxed

manner suggest a man in whom casualness runs deep.

He is feeling quarts of milk for coldness and examining their

expiration dates.

The Dude glances furtively about and then opens a quart of

milk.  He sticks his nose in the spout and sniffs.

CHECKOUT GIRL

She waits, arms folded.  A small black-and white TV next to

her register shows George Bush on the White House lawn with

helicopter rotors spinning behind him.

The Dude, peeking over his shades, scribbles something at

the little customer's lectern.  Milk beads his mustache.

The Dude has his Ralph's Shopper's Club card to one side and

is making out a check to Ralph's for sixty-nine cents.

EXTERIOR  RALPH'S

Long shot of the glowing Ralph's.  There are only two or

three cars parked in the huge lot.

The Dude is a small figure walking across the vast lot.

Next to him walks a Mexican carry-out boy in a red apron and

cap carrying a small brown bag holding the quart of milk.

The two men's footsteps echo in the still of the night.

After a beat of walking the Dude offhandedly points.

DUDE'S HOUSE

The Dude is going up the walkway of a small Venice bungalow

court.  He holds the paper sack in one hand and a small

leatherette satchel in the other.  He awkwardly hugs the

grocery bag against his chest as he turns a key in his door.

INSIDE

The Dude enters and flicks on a light.

His head is grabbed from behind and tucked into an armpit.

We track with him as he is rushed through the living room,

his arm holding the satchel flailing away from his body.

Going into the bedroom the outflung satchel catches a piece

of doorframe and wallboard and rips through it, leaving a

hole.

The Dude is propelled across the bedroom and on into a small

bathroom, the satchel once again taking away a piece of

doorframe.  His head is plunged into the toilet.  The paper

bag hugged to his chest explodes milk as it hits the toilet

rim and the satchel pulverizes tile as it crashes to the

floor.

The Dude blows bubbles.

Hands haul the Dude out of the toilet. The Dude blubbers and

gasps for air.

His head is plunged back into the toilet.

The hands haul him out again, dripping and gasping.

His head is plunged back in.

The inquisitor hauls the Dude's head out one last time and

flops him over so that he sits on the floor, back against

the toilet.

The Dude gropes back in the toilet with one hand.

Looming over him is a strapping blond man.

Beyond in the living room a young Chinese man unzips his fly

and walks over to a rug.

He starts peeing on the rug.

The Dude's hand comes out of the toilet bowl with his

sunglasses.

The Dude puts on his dripping sunglasses.

He holds up his hands.

The blond man stoops to unzip the satchel.  He pulls out a

bowling ball and examines it in the manner of a superstitious

native.

The Dude pats at his pockets, takes out a joint and lights

it.

The blond man drops the ball which pulverizes more tile.

The Chinese man is zipping his fly.

They both look around.

The Dude pulls his sunglasses down his nose with one finger

and peeks over them.

The two men look at each other.  They turn to leave.

The blond man turns testily at the door.

BOWLING PINS

Scattered by a strike.

Music and head credits play over various bowling shots--pins

flying, bowlers hoisting balls, balls gliding down lanes,

sliding feet, graceful releases, ball return spinning up a

ball, fingers sliding into fingerholes, etc.

The music turns into boomy source music, coming from a distant

jukebox, as the credits end over a clattering strike.

A lanky blonde man with stringy hair tied back in a ponytail

turns from the strike to walk back to the bench.

We are tracking in on the circular bench towards a big man

nursing a large plastic cup of Bud.  He has dark worried

eyes and a goatee.  Hairy legs emerge from his khaki shorts.

He also wears a khaki army surplus shirt with the sleeves

cut off over an old bowling shirt.  This is Walter.  He

squints through the smoke from his own cigarette as he

addresses the Dude at the scoring table.

The Dude, also holding a large plastic cup of Bud, wears

some of its foam on his mustache.

He elaborately clears his throat.

Donny, the strike-scoring bowler, enters and sits next Walter.

He elaborately clears his throat.

That rap really tied the room together, did it not?

CLOSE ON A PLAQUE

We pull back from the name JEFFREY LEBOWSKI engraved in silver

to reveal that the plaque, from Variety Clubs International,

honors Lebowski as ACHIEVER OF THE YEAR.

Reflected in the plaque we see the Dude entering the room

with a YOUNG MAN.  We hear the two men talk:

We are panning the walls, looking at various citations and

certificates unrelated to the ones being discussed offscreen:

Our continuing track and pan have brought us onto a framed

Life Magazine cover which is headlined ARE YOU A LEBOWSKI

ACHIEVER?  Oddly, the Dude's sunglassed face is on it; we

realize that, under the magazine's logo and headline, the

display is mirrored.

We hear the door open and the whine of a motor.  The Dude,

wearing shorts and a bowling shirt, turns to look.

So does Brandt, the young man we've been listening to.  He

wears a suit and has his hands clasped in front of his groin.

Entering the room is a fat sixtyish man in a motorized

wheelchair--Jeff Lebowski.

He wheels himself behind a desk.  The Dude sits facing him

as Brandt withdraws.

The Dude rises.

The Dude is heading for the door.

As the Dude opens the door.

The Dude shuts the door on the old man's bellowing to find

himself--

WALKWAY

A houseman with a rolled-up carpet on one shoulder goes down

a stone walk that winds through the back lawn, past a swimming

pool to a garage.  Brandt and the Dude follow.

DUDE'S POINT OF VIEW

Tracking toward the pool.  A young woman sits facing it, her

back to us, leaning forward to paint her toenails.

Beyond her a black form floats in an inflatable chair in the

pool.

CLOSER TRACK

Arcing around the woman's foot as she finishes painting the

nails emerald green.

THE DUDE

Looking.

WIDER

The young woman looks up at him.  She is in her early

twenties.

She leans back and extends her leg toward the Dude.

The Dude pulls his sunglasses down his nose and peeks over

them.

She waggles her foot and giggles.

The Dude tentatively grabs hold of her extended foot.

The Dude looks over at the pool.

The man bobbing in the inflatable chair is passed out.  He

is thin, in his thirties, with long stringy blond hair.  He

wears black leather pants and a black leather jacket, open,

shirtless, exposing fine blond chest hair and pale skin.

One arm trails off into the water; next to it, an empty

whiskey bottle bobs.

The young woman smiles.

Brandt nervously takes the Dude by the elbow.

The Dude grudgingly allows himself to be led away, still

looking at the young woman.

Brandt releases a gale of forced laughter:

He continues to lead away the Dude, who looks back over his

SHOULDER:

BOWLING PINS

Scattered by a strike.

THE BOWLERS

Donny calls out from the bench:

As the Dude walks back to the scoring table he turns to

another team in black bowling shirts--the Cavaliers--that

shares the lane.

Walter, just arriving, is carrying a leatherette satchel in

one hand and a large plastic carrier in the other.

He lets the small yapping dog out of the carrier.  It scoots

around the bowling table, sniffing at bowlers and wagging

its tail.

Smokey turns from his last roll to look at Walter.

Walter takes out a gun.

A manager in a bowling-shirt style uniform is running for a

phone.

Walter primes the gun and points it at his head.

The Pomeranian is excitedly yapping at Walter's elbow, making

high body-twisting tail-wagging leaps.

He points frantically at the score projected above the lane.

PARKING LOT

Walter and the Dude walk to the Dude's car.  The Pomeranian

trots happily behind Walter who totes the empty carrier.

As the two men get into the car:

They watch a squad car take a squealing turn into the lot.

-his irritates the Dude further.

Walter is still smug.

DUDE'S HOUSE

A large, brilliant Persian rug lies beneath the Dude's beat-

up old furniture.

At the table next to the answering machine the Dude is mixing

kalhua, rum and milk.

A beep.

Beep.

We hear the doorbell.

THE DOOR

It swings open to reveal a short, hairy, muscular but balding

middle-aged man in a black T-shirt and black cut-off jeans.

The Dude takes a swig of his kalhua.

BACK IN THE LIVING ROOM

The  voice continues on the machine.

TRACKING

We are pushing Brandt down the high-ceilinged hallway.

Distantly, we hear a dolorous soprano.  Brandt talks back

over

HIS SHOULDER:

Brandt throws open a pair of heavy double doors.  The music

washes over us as we enter a great study where Jeffrey

Lebowski, a blanket thrown over his knees, stares hauntedly

into a fire, listening to Lohengrin.

BRANDT ANNOUNCES, AMBIGUOUSLY:

Jeffrey Lebowski waves the Dude in without looking around.

Lebowski turns away from the Dude with a haunted stare, lost

in thought.

The Dude thumps at his chest pocket.

He turns back around and the firelight shows teartracks on

his cheeks.

He clears his throat.

Brandt hastily pulls a flimsy sheet from his clipboard and

hands it to the Dude.

THE DUDE EXAMINES THE FAX:

WE HAVE BUNNY.  GATHER ONE MILLION DOLLARS IN UNMARKED NON-

CONSECUTIVE TWENTIES.  AWAIT INSTRUCTIONS.  NO FUNNY STUFF.

Lebowski looks soulfully at the Dude.

He wheels his chair around to once again gaze into the fire.

Brandt tugs at the Dude's shirt and points him back to the

hall.

HALLWAY

The soprano's singing is once again faint.  Brandt's voice

is hushed:

BOWLING PINS

CRASH--scattered by a strike, in slow motion.

WIDER

Still in slow motion.  We are looking across the length of

the bowling alley at a tall, thin, Hispanic bowler displaying

perfect form.  He wears an all-in-one dacron-polyester stretch

bowling outfit with a racing stripe down each side.

FAST TRACK IN

On the Dude, sitting next to Walter in the molded plastic

chairs. The Dude is staring off towards the bowler.

BACK TO THE BOWLER

Displaying great slow-motion form as the Dude and Walter's

conversation continues over.

FLASHBACK

We see Quintana, in pressed jeans and a stretchy sweater,

walking up a stoop in a residential neighborhood and zinging

the bell.

The VOICE-OVER conversation continues.

The door swings open and a beer-swilling middle-aged man

looks dully out at Quintana, who looks hesitantly up.

PINS

scattered by a strike.

QUINTANA

wheeling and thrusting a black gloved fist into the air.

Stitched above the breast pocket of his all-in-one is his

first name, "Jesus".

BACK TO WALTER AND THE DUDE

They have been joined by Donny.

He slips a little black box out of his shirt pocket.

Donny has been watching Quintana.

They both look up.

Quintana, on his way out, looks down at them from the lip of

the lanes.  Over his polyester all-in-one he now wears a

windbreaker with a racing stripe and "Jesus" stitched on the

breast.  He is holding a fancy black-and-red leather ball

satchel (perhaps a Sylvia Wein).  Behind him stands his

partner, O'Brien, a short fat Irishman with tufted red hair.

Quintana looks at Walter.

Jesus walks away.  Walter nods sadly.

DUDE'S BUNGALOW

We are looking down at the Dude who is prone on the rug.

His eyes are closed.  He wears a Walkman headset.  Leaking

tinnily through the headphones we can just hear an

intermittent clatter.

In his outflung hand lies a cassette case labeled VENICE

BEACH LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 1987.

The Dude absently licks his lips as we faintly hear a hall

rumbling down the lane.  On its impact with the pins, the

Dude opens his eyes.

He screams.

A blonde woman looms over him.  Next to  her a  young man

in paint-spattered denims stoops and swings something towards

the carrier.

The sap catches the Dude on the chin and sends  his head

thunking back onto the rug.

A million stars explode against a field of black.  We hear

the "La-la-la-la" of The Man in Me.

The black field  dissolves into  the pattern  of the  rug.

The rug rolls away to reveal an aerial view of  the city  of

Los  Angeles at twilight, moving below us at great speed.

The Dude is flying over the city, his arms thrown out in

front of him, the wind whipping his hair and billowing his

bowling shirt. He looks up.

Ahead the mysterious blonde woman wings away, riding on the

Dude's rug like a sheik on a magic carpet.  She is outpacing

us, growing smaller.

The Dude does a couple of lazy crawl strokes and then notices

that a bowling ball has materialized in his forward hand.

His bemusement turns to concern over the aerodynamic

implications just as the ball seems to suddenly assume its

weight, abruptly snapping his arm down, and him after it. He

is falling. From a high angle we see the Dude hurtling down

toward the city, dragged by the ball.

A  reverse  looking  up shows  the Dude  hurtling toward  us

out  of the inky  sky,  his eyes  wide with  horror.  Led by

the bowling  ball, he zooms past the camera leaving us in

black.

We hear a distant rumble, like thunder.  Dull reflections

materialize in the darkness.  They are glints off the shiny

surface of an oncoming bowling ball.

We pull back to reveal that the blackness was the inside of

a ball return, and the gleaming bowling ball is being

regurgitated up at us, overtaking us.

The Dude looks up, up, up at the looming ball, its mass

rolling a huge shadow across his face.

The gleaming ball shows three dead black holes rolling toward

us --finger holes.

The largest--thumb--hole rolls directly over us, engulfing

us once again in black..

The black rolls away and we are spinning--spinning down a

bowling lane--our point of view that of someone trapped in

the thumbhole of the rolling ball.

We see the receding bowler spinning away.  It is the blonde

woman, performing her follow-through.

Floor spins up at us and then away; ceiling spins up and

away; the length of the alley with pins at the end; floor;

ceiling; approaching pins; again and again.

We hit the pins and clatter into blackness.  We hear pins

spin, hit each other and drop.

We hear an irritating, insistent beeping.

FADE IN

We are close on the Dude, upside down.  As the picture fades

in the bowling noises continue, but filtered and faint.

They come from the Dude's Walkman, the headset of which is

now askew, with one arm off his ear.

As the Dude opens his eyes we spiral slowly upward to put

him right side around.  His head is now resting against

hardwood floor, not rug.

He  raises  himself  onto  his  elbows  and  massages  the

red   lump  on his  jaw.  The  beeper  on his  belt is

blinking red  in sync  with the continuing irritating beeps.

WIDE ON THE ROOM

An  end  table  is  upset,  but  otherwise the  furniture is

in place. The rug is gone.

The  Dude  looks  around.    The  bowling sounds  continue.

The beeps continue.

The phone starts to jangle.

TRACK

We  push  Brandt  down  the  familiar  marble  hallway.

Again  there is a  distant  aria.    Brandt  throws  out a

wrist to  look at  his watch.

They have reached the little desk outside of the big

Lebowski's office; Brandt opens its bottom drawer with a key

and takes out an attache case.  He hands this to the Dude

along with a cellular phone in a battery-pack carrying case.

DUDE'S CAR

We pan off the Dude, driving, to his point of view through

the front windshield.  The headlights play over Walter

standing waiting in front of the storefront of SOBCHAK

SECURITY.  Though he is wearing khaki shorts and shirt, the

fact that he holds a battered brown briefcase makes him look

oddly like a commuter.  He also holds an irregular shape

bundled in brown wrapping paper.

The car stops in front of him and he opens the Dude's door

and hands in the briefcase.

The Dude takes the briefcase and slides over.

The Dude opens the briefcase and paws bemusedly through it

as the car starts rolling.

He closes the briefcase.

The phone chirps.  Dude grabs it.

Shit. . . Uh, yeah, you know, me and the driver.  I'm not

handling the money and driving the car and talking on the

phone all by my fucking--

Walter looks over at the Dude and bellows:

Click.  Dial tone.

The phone chirps.

The Dude unclips the phone from the battery pack.

The Dude glares at Walter.  Into the phone:

A HIGHWAY SIGN:  SIMI VALLEY ROAD

It flashes by in the headlights of the roaring car.

Walter wrestles the car onto the two-lane road.

He looks at the Dude.

The phone chirps.

Click.  Dial tone.

Walter stares dumbly for a beat.

There is the bump and new steady of the car on the bridge.

The Dude is twisting around to pull the money briefcase from

the back seat.  Walter reaches one arm across Dude's body to

grab the laundry.

And there goes the ringer.

He flings it out the window.

Walter points across the seat at the paper-wrapped bundle.

Walter has flung open his door and is leaning halfway out

over the road.

Walter rolls out with his parcel, giving a loud grunt as he

hits the pavement.  The car swerves and lurches and the Dude,

cursing, takes the wheel.

OUTSIDE

Walter tumbles onto the shoulder and--RAT-TAT-TAT-TAT!--muzzle

flashes tear open the wrapping paper.

INSIDE THE CAR

The car rocks and the Dude wrestles with the wheel.

OUTSIDE

The car clunks and screams around in a skid.

INSIDE

The Dude is thrown forward as the car hits something.

OUTSIDE

As the Dude struggles out holding the satchel of money. The

front of his car is crumpled into a tree.  The car body saps

back to the left, where the rear wheel has been shot out.

WALTER  is  just  rising  from  the  ground  massaging an

injured knee.

The  Dude  runs  up  the  road  toward  the bridge,

frantically waving the satchel in the air.

There is a distant engine roar.  A motorcycle bumps up onto

the road from the ravine under the bridge and, tires

squealing, skids around to speed away in the opposite

direction.  It is closely followed by two more roaring

motorcycles.

The Dude and Walter stand in the middle of the road, watching

the three red tail lights fishtail away.

AFTER A LONG STARING SILENCE:

BOWLING LANE

A ball rumbles in to scatter ten pins.

WALTER.

He turns from the lane to where the Dude sits in the nook of

molded plastic chairs.  The Dude listlessly holds the portable

phone in his lap.  It is ringing.

The portable phone stops ringing.

Donny is trotting excitedly up.

The Dude gets to his feet with the portable phone.

Walter and Donny join the Dude as he walks out of the bowling

alley.

Hell, you just tell him--well, you tell him, uh, we made the

hand-off, everything went, uh, you know--

He waves both arms as if conducting a symphony orchestra.

The three bowlers, stopped at the edge of the lot, stare out

at an empty parking space.

The Dude walks away across the lot.  The portable phone starts

ringing again.

DUDE'S LIVING ROOM

The Dude is slumped disconsolately back in his easy chair,

fingers of one hand cupped over his sunglasses.  Facing him

on the couch are two uniformed policeman, one middle-aged,

the other a fresh-faced rookie.

At the cut the portable phone, in the Dude's lap, is chirping.

The Dude waits for the rings to end.  When they do:

DULLY:

There is silence.  Dude continues to stare at a spot on the

floor.  The older cop stares at him.

AT LENGTH:

The Dude taps the floor with his foot.

The Dude stares at the floor.

Silence.

The home phone starts ringing--a ring distinct  from the

chirp of the portable.  The Dude makes no move to answer

it.   Finally the rings stop as an answering machine kicks

on.

Dude's Voice on Machine The Dude's not in.  Leave a message

after the beep.  It takes a minute.

Beep.

Beep.  Dial tone.

TRACKING FORWARD

We are moving through the open living area of a large downtown

L.A. loft.  A huge unfinished canvas,  lit by  standing

industrial lights, dominates one wall.  The furnishings  are

spare  given the space.  On the floor is the Dude's brilliant

rug.

We hear a rumble like an approaching bowling ball.  The Dude,

standing in the middle of the loft, looks into the murky

depths of the cavernous space.

Something huge and white hurtles towards the Dude's head.

As it roars overhead he ducks, and spins to watch it pass.

We see the backside of a naked woman in a sling suspended

from a ceiling track rumbling over a canvas that lies on the

floor.  She is holding a paint bucket in one hand and a brush

in the other, with which she flicks paint down at the canvas.

The Dude turns again as he hears running footsteps.  Two

young men in paint-spattered shorts, T-shirts and sneakers

reach the sling shortly after it reaches the end of its track

and haul it back for another push.

She rumbles by in another pass.

All right, we'll do the blue tomorrow.  Elfranco.  Pedro.

Help me down.

The  two  men  help Maude  out of  her sling.   She  is naked

except for leather  harness  straps  which  ring  her  breasts

and wrap  her thighs and give her something of a dominatrix

look.

Does the female form make you uncomfor- table, Mr. Lebowski?

This to Elfranco, who has handed her a robe.

All right, Mr. Lebowski, let's get down to cases.  My father

told me he's agreed to let you have the rug, but it was a

gift from me to my late mother, and so was not his to give.

Now.  As for this. . . "kidnapping"--

She is aiming a remote at a projection TV.  The screen

flickers to life.  A title card:

JACKIE TREEHORN PRESENTS

SECOND CARD:

KARL HUNGUS

AND

BUNNY LAJOYA

IN

A THIRD CARD:

LOGJAMMIN'

The Dude is at the bar, a bottle of kalhua frozen halfway

to his glass.

From the television set we hear a doorbell ring, and then  a

door opening.

On the TV screen the door opens to reveal a sallow-faced

man in blue coyer-alls.  It is Dieter, the floater in

Lebowski's pool.

The girl answering the door is Bunny Lebowski.

Bunny The TV is in here.

Bunny This is my friend Shari.  She just came over to use

the shower.

Maude switches off the set.

in pornography, nor that she has been "banging" Jackie

Treehorn, to use the parlance of our times.  However.  I am

one of two trustees of the Lebowski Foundation, the other

being my father.  The Foundation takes youngsters from Watts

and--

fornicator is taking my father for the proverbial ride.

The Dude fingers his jaw, where the lump from the sap has

all but disappeared.

LIMO

The Dude sits in back holding a White Russian,  listening to

the chauffeur, a man of about the same age from whose livery

cap a ponytail emerges.

THROUGH RASPING LAUGHTER:

He takes a sip of a freshly-mixed White Russian, which leaves

milk on his mustache.

I was feeling really shitty earlier in the day, I'd lost  a

little  money, I  was down in the dumps.

The limo has rolled to a stop.  The Dude gets out, still

holding his drink.

His eyes on the rearview mirror, Tony jerks a thumb over his

shoulder.

He followed us here.

The Dude turns to look.

HIS POV

Halfway up the block a Volkswagon bug has pulled over to the

curb.  In the driver's seat we see a fat man's shape.

THE DUDE

He scowls.

The Dude is grabbed from behind and muscled away in a half-

nelson by another uniformed chauffeur.

As he is frog-marched towards another limo the Dude holds

his drink away from his chest and cups a hand underneath it.

The waiting limo's back door is flung open.

INSIDE

The Dude is shoved in and awkwardly takes a seat facing the

rear. The door is slammed behind him.

Brandt sits catty-corner from the Dude; directly across from

the Dude is the big Lebowski, a comforter across his knees.

The Dude takes a hurried sip from his drink.

Lebowski stares at him, dumbstruck.  The Dude is encouraged.

The Dude, frowning, untucks its flap, takes out some cotton

wadding and unrolls it.

The wadding, undone, reveals a smaller wad of gauze taped up

inside.  The Dude undoes the tape with his fingernails and

starts to unroll the inner package.

Between thumb and forefinger the Dude holds up the contents

of the package--a little toe, with emerald green nail polish.

COFFEE SHOP

The Dude and Walter sit at the counter, both staring off

into space, both absently stirring their coffee with little

clinking noises.

AFTER A LONG BEAT:

A waitress enters.

THE DUDE GETS UP:

The Dude has left frame; Walter calls after him:

He looks defiantly around.

He stirs the coffee, bopping his head in time to the Muzak,

affecting nonchalance.

DUDE'S BATHROOM

A dripping noise.

The Dude sits in the bathtub, staring stuporously, a joint

pinched in one hand, a washcloth draped over his head.

We hear the phone ringing in the other roam.

The Dude is staring at his toes, which protrude from the

soapy water, splayed against the far side of the tub.

After the Dude's outgoing message we hear:

The Dude looks stuporously up, his head swaying.

The message is interrupted by loud smashing sounds, as of

someone applying a baseball bat to the answering machine.

He looks blearily at the open doorway.

A tall man dressed in black leather with a cricket paddle is

striding across the living room towards the bathroom.

The man has entered the bathroom and, in stride, swings the

cricket paddle up to smash the overhead light.  Two other

men are entering behind him.

The room is dark now except for spill from the living room;

the men are backlit shapes.

One of them holds a string at the other end of which a small

animal skitters excitedly about the floor.

The Dude looks curiously at the small, nattering animal.

The man with the string scoops up the marmot and tosses it,

screaming, into the bathtub.

The Dude screams.

The marmot splashes frantically, biting at the Dude in a

frenzy of fearful aggression.

The Dude, screaming, grabs the lip of the tub and starts to

hoist himself up but the first man lays a palm on top of his

head and squishes him back into the water.

He scoops the marmot out of the water.  It shakes itself

off, spraying the Dude.

The marmot, back on the floor, is skittering around, shaking

itself and convulsing in little sneezes.

The three men turn to leave.  Over their retreating backs:

NORTH HOLLYWOOD AUTO CIRCUS

A policeman with a clipboard is leading the Dude through a

large parking lot.

They have reached the Dude's car.  The  driver's side

exterior has been scraped raw.  The policeman hands the Dude

a door  handle and an exterior rear-view mirror.

The Dude climbs in the passenger side.

The Dude tries to roll down the driver's window but it will

not go; he bellows through the glass:

The policeman laughs, agreeing broadly.

The Dude looks sadly through his window at the policeman

rocking back on his heels, his raucous laughter muffled by

the glass.

BOWLING ALLEY BAR

The Dude, Walter and Donny sit at the bar, the Dude with a

White Russian, Walter with a beer, and Donny eating beer

nuts.

Walter sadly shakes his head.

Walter looks haunted.

Say what you like about the tenets of National Socialism,

Dude, at least it's an ethos.

There is a moment of stunned silence.

SAD; QUIET:

They leave the Dude sitting morosely at the bar.  As he stares

DOWN INTO HIS EMPTY GLASS:

STILL STARING DOWN AT THE BAR:

The pop song on the jukebox has ended; someone puts on

"Tumbling Tumbleweeds."

A man saunters up to the bar to take the stool that Walter

vacated.  He is middle-aged, amiable, craggily handsome--Sam

Elliot, perhaps.  He has a large Western-style mustache and

wears denims, a yoked shirt and a cowboy hat.

TO THE BARTENDER:

We recognize the voice of The Stranger whose narration opened

the movie.

The Stranger nods.

Waiting for his drink, he looks amiably around the bar.  His

crinkled eyes settle on the Dude.

The Dude, still staring down at his drink, shakes his head.

The bartender puts a brown bottle and a frosted glass on the

bar in front of The Stranger, who touches his hat brim.

He looks back at the Dude.

THE DUDE LOOKS UP, ABSENTLY:

The Dude looks at The Stranger as if just now noticing how

out of place the cowpoke is.

The Stranger chuckles indulgently and pushes off from the

bar.

He brushes his hat brim with a fingertip.

He is gone.  "Tumbling Tumbleweeds" is ending as we hear an

offscreen voice, breaking the spell:

THE DUDE LOOKS:

Tony, the unformed limo driver, is at the door of the bar,

beckoning.

MAUDE'S LOFT

She strides toward us, naked under a robe which she is just

cinching shut.  Paint flecks her skin.

The Dude fingers through the albums filling one bookshelf.

The Dude stops between two albums.

The Dude pulls out an album with a worn sleeve.  On it is

the group's name, Autobahn, the album name, Nagelbett, and a

picture

OF THREE YOUNG GERMANS, THEIR FOREHEADS LOOMING BELOW

SLICKED-

back hair, gazing upward in thin-lipped epiphany.  They are

wearing severe but modishly retro suits.  Each has his name

under his picture--Dieter, Kieffer; and Franz.  A bed of

nails is the only set dressing on the cyc.

She is scribbling.

She is picking up a telephone.

CLOSE SHOT   THE DUDE

His eyes are closed, a headset on, his shirt off.  Leaking

tinnily through the headset we hear the opening bars of

"Comin' Up Around the Bend."

Behind him, cropped so that we see only a little of his torso,

a white-smocked figure taps at the Dude's back.  After a

moment the figure circles to one side, out of frame.  His

hand reaches in to pull one arm of the headset away from the

Dude's ear, and as he does so the music issues more strongly.

The Dude's eyes open.

DUDE'S CAR

The Dude is driving home.  A Creedence tape plays.  The Dude

is sucking down a joint.  He glances at the rear-view mirror--

and, noticing something, looks again.

HIS POV

A Volkswagon bug is following, a lone fat man driving.

THE DUDE

His eyes still on the mirror, he absently takes the joint

between thumb and forefinger of his right hand and flicks it

out the driver's window--except that the window is not open.

The butt bounces off the glass and around the car, showering

sparks.

DUDE'S CROTCH

The glowing butt rolls down the car seat between his legs.

The Dude screams.

THE STREET

The car careens wildly as the surrounding traffic veers off

to, make way, horns blaring.  The car finally spins and comes

to rest with its passenger side wrapped into a telephone

poll.

INSIDE THE CAR

The Dude frantically grabs at his door, which won't open,

and then slides over to push at the passenger door, which

also won't open.

But he is sitting on the passenger  side now,  away from

the lit butt.  He looks around for it.

Smoke is wisping up from between the Driver's seat cushion

and back cushion.

He takes his beer and pours it in between the cushions.

There is a hissing  sound.   But there is a piece of paper

sticking out from between the cushions.

The Dude pulls it out.

It is lined spiral notebook paper, slightly singed and

dripping beer, covered with handwriting.  In the upper right-

hand corner is the name Lawrence Sellers, and under that,

Mrs. Jamtoss 5th Period.  The theme is titled "The Louisiana

Purchase."  In red ink is a large circled D and some

handwritten marginal comments; misspelled words are circled

in red throughout.

CRANE JACKSON'S FOUNTAIN STREET THEATER

We are behind Walter, the Dude, and Donny, facing the stage

in the background where Allan, the Dude's balding landlord,

is performing a dance moderne.

As Walter talks to the Dude he leans in to him, his voice

hushed, so as not to disturb the rest of the very sparse

audience.

He waves a hand vaguely toward the stage.

RESIDENTIAL AREA

The Dude and Walter are pulling up in front of a dilapidated

house sitting on a scrubby lot.  Parked incongruously in

front of the house is a brand new red Corvette.

THE FRONT DOOR

Walter rings the bell.  It is opened by a matronly Spanish

woman.

They enter a dim living room and stand, looking about, as

Pilar

CALLS UP THE STAIRS:

There is a rhythmic compressor sound; Walter places it and

nudges the Dude.  At the other end of the living room a man

lies on something that looks like a hospital gurney with its

midsection enclosed by a motorized stainless-steel bubble.

It is an iron lung, artificially breathing with distinct

hisses in and out.

He and the Dude sit on a sagging green sofa.  In a lowered

voice, to Pilar:

HE BELLOWS ACROSS THE ROOM:

There are footsteps on the stairs.  Larry, a fifteen-year-

old, looks at the two men.

He adopts his command voice in turning to Larry:

Walter pops the latches on his attache case and takes out

the homework, which is now in a ziploc bag.  He holds it out

at arm's length, displaying it to Larry.

Larry does not respond.

Walter is still holding out the homework.

Throughout Walter has been staring at Larry with the homework

extended towards him.

No answer.

FINALLY, IN DISGUST:

As he shoves the homework back in the attache case:

He is heading for the door.  The Dude, puzzled, rises to

follow him.

OUTSIDE

Walter is striding down the lawn with his attache case like

an enraged encyclopedia salesman.  Without looking back at,

the Dude, who follows:

He pops the Dude's trunk, flings in the briefcase and takes

out a tire iron.

He is walking over to the Corvette.

CRASH!  He swings the crowbar into the windshield, which

shatters.

CRASH!  He takes out the driver's window.

Lights are going on in houses down the street.  Distant dogs

bark.

CRASH!

CRASH!

A man in a sleeveless T-shirt and boxer shorts has run over

behind Walter and grabbed him from behind on a backswing of

the crowbar.

He wrestles the crowbar away from the startled Walter.

Walter cringes before the enraged Mexican.

The man looks about, wildly.

He runs over to the Dude's car.

CRASH!  CRASH!

CRASH!

INSIDE THE CAR

Glass rains in on a terrified, cringing, Donny.

THE DUDE'S CAR

We are looking into the car through the broken windshield as

it rattles down the freeway.  Wind whistles through the caved-

in windows.

The Dude drives, his jaw clenched, staring grimly out at the

road.  Walter, beside him, and Donny in the back seat, munch

'on In-and-Out Burgers.

Creedence music plays above the bluster of wind.

DUDE'S BUNGALOW

As the Dude talks on the phone he is hammering a two-by-four

into the floor just inside, and parallel to, the front door.

He finishes hammering, rises and grabs a straightbacked chair

that stands nearby.

He hangs up and has just finished sliding the chair into

place with its top under the doorknob and its legs braced

against the two-by-four, thus wedging the door closed, when

the door is opened--outwards.  The chair clatters to the

floor.

Woo and the blond man who earlier peed on the rug stride in,

kicking the chair away.

BLACKNESS

Out of the blackness something is falling toward us.  It is

a woman, falling in slow motion, her limbs flailing, her

mouth contorted by either fear or ecstasy.  She is topless.

She falls past the camera, leaving blackness, then after a

beat reappears, rising into the night sky.

MALIBU BEACH

A crowd of mostly tanned middle-aged men with blow-dried

hair, wearing jogging outfits and other expensively casual

attire, are blanket-tossing the squealing young woman in

nightmarish slow motion.

WIDER

It is a party, lit by festive beach lights and standing

kerosene heaters.  1960's mainstream jazz, of the Mancini-

Brubeck school, has been piped down to speakers on the beach'.

In long shot now the woman rises, squealing, disappears

into darkness, descends into light, rises again.

A man walks towards the camera through the pools of beach

light.  He is handsome, fiftyish, wearing cotton twill pants

and a Turnbull & Asher shirt with a foulard knotted at the

neck.  Behind him, the woman rises and falls, appears and

disappears.

INSIDE THE BEACH HOUSE

The Dude is looking around at the '60's modern decor.

He taps his forehead with one finger.

He hands him the drink.

Treehorn waves this off.

He is getting to his feet, but sways woozily.

The Dude shakes his head, tries to focus.

Jackie Treehorn's image starts to swim.  He is joined on

either side by Woo and the blond man, all three men looking

grimly down at the Dude.

He squints at Jackie Treehorn, who swims in and out of focus.

Tied the room together.

He tips forward, spilling his drink off the table.

FROM UNDER THE GLASS COFFEE TABLE

Looking up at the Dude as his face hits the glass and

squishes.

FAST FADE OUT

BLACK

We hear a thundering bass.

SCRATCHY WHITE TITLE CARD:

JACKIE TREEHORN PRESENTS

ANOTHER TITLE CARD:

THE DUDE

AND

MAUDE LEBOWSKI

IN

THIRD TITLE CARD:

GUTTERBALLS

The title logo is a suggestively upright bowling pin flanked

by a pair of  bowling balls.   The  bending bass sound turns

into the lead-in to Kenny Rogers and the First Edition's

"Just Dropped In."

The Dude is walking down a long corridor dressed as a cable

repairman.  The Dude's face is washed with a brilliant light

as the corridor opens onto a gleaming bowling alley.

In the center of the alley stands Maude Lebowski, singing

operatic harmony to the Kenny Rogers song.  She wears an

armored breastplate and Norse headgear, has braided pigtails,

and holds a trident.

The Dude stands behind her and, pressed up against her, helps

her with her follow-through as she releases a bowling ball.

The lane is straddled by a line of chorines in spangly mini-

skirts, their arms akimbo, Busby-Berkley style, their legs

turning the lane into a tunnel leading to the pins at the

end.

But it is no longer a bowling ball rolling between their

legs--it is the Dude himself, levitating inches off the lane,

the tools from his utility belt swinging free.  He is face

down, his arms, torpedolike, pressed against his sides.

His point of view shows the lane rushing by below, the little

ball-guide arrows zipping by.

The Dude twists his body around, performing a barrel-roll so

that he is now gliding along the lane face-up.

Now his point of view looks up the dresses of the passing

chorines.

The Dude smiles dreamily and does a backstroke motion so

that he is once again gliding face-down.  He looks forward

and his forward momentum blows back his hair.

Coming at us, as we go through the last few pairs of legs,

are the approaching pins.  We hit the pins, scattering them,

and rush on into black.

A body drops down into the blackness in slow motion--a topless

woman, squealing, her legs kicking.

As she drops out of frame, leaving blackness again, three

men are entering from the background, emerging into a pool

of light.  It is the Germans, advancing ominously, wielding

oversized shears which they menacingly scissor.

The Dude, now standing in a field of black, reacts to the

advancing Germans.  He turns and runs, fists pumping.

The scissoring sound of the shears turns into the whoosh of

car-bys.  The field of black is punctured by headlights.

The Dude is running blearily down the middle of the Pacific

Coast Highway. Cars rush by on either side, horns blaring.

With the BLOO-WHUP of a short siren blast, a squad car with

flashing gumballs pulls up.

SQUAD CAR

The Dude sits in the back seat, his head lolling with the

motion of the car as he blearily sings the theme of Branded:

CHIEF'S OFFICE

The Dude is hurled against the chief's desk, which he bounces

off of, to come to rest more or less seated in a facing chair.

His wallet is tossed onto the desk.

The chief leans forward, takes the wallet and sorts through

it with disgusted incredulity.

He is looking at the Ralph's Shopper's Club card.

The Dude stares.

The Chief hurls his steaming mug of coffee at the Dude.  It

hits him in the forehead with a thud, the scalding coffee

splashing everywhere.

The Chief is already up off his chair, rounding the desk.

The Chief slaps him twice.

He kicks the chair out from under the Dude, and then starts

kicking at him.

CAB

The Dude, in the back seat of a taxicab that rocks and squeaks

with every bump, is gingerly touching at sore spots on his

face and scalp.

"Peaceful Easy Feeling" is on the radio.

DUDE'S POV

The back of the driver, a large black man with rasta dreds

under a knit cap.

THE STREET

The cab screeches over towards the curb.  Another car,

oncoming, its radio blaring Metallica, speeds by.

INSIDE THE OTHER CAR

It is a red convertible.  The driver, singing loudly and

badly along with the radio, her hair blowing in the wind, a

dreamy smile on her face as she speeds along, higher than a

kite, is Bunny Lebowski.

THE FOOTWELL

On the accelerator her right foot, in an open-toed bright

red high-heeled shoe, has five painted toes.

When she downshifts her left foot enters to engage the clutch.

Five more toes.

DUDE'S BUNGALOW

The Dude staggers in the open front door, one hand pressed

to a lump on his forehead, and looks around.

The place is a wreck.  Furniture has been overturned,

upholstery slashed, drawers dumped.

Quiet.

The door to the bedroom starts to creak open.

The Dude cringes.

Maude emerges from the bedroom.  She is wearing a bathrobe.

She pulls open the bathrobe as she approaches.

The Dude is stupefied.

BLACK

After a beat, a long sigh, and then a voice from the

blackness:

A match is dragged across a headboard; the Dude is lighting

himself a joint.  He shakes the match out to restore blackness

except for the glowing tip of the joint.

Click--the Dude turns on a bedside lamp.  He and Maude lie

next to each other in bed.

He climbs out of bed but Maude remains in it.  She wedges a

pillow into the small of her back and clasps a hand on each

kneecap.  She pulls her knees in toward her chest to keep

her pelvis raised.

He picks a White Russian off the bedside table.

Throughout, Maude has been lying on her back with her knees

pulled in.

The Dude spits some White Russian.

Something occurs to him.

The Dude is staring off into space, thinking.  His answer is

absent.

The Dude is leaving the bedroom.

LIVING ROOM

The Dude finishes punching a number into the phone.

FROM THE BEDROOM:

Beep.

THE DUDE

He emerges on his front stoop, pulling on a shirt. His

attention is caught by something down the street.

HIS POV

A car is  parked halfway down the block.  We can see the

shape of a fat man in the driver's seat.

THE DUDE

Striding purposefully down the street.

HIS POV

The fat man leans forward and we hear the sound of the car's

ignition coughing, but the engine will not turn over.  More

whines and coughs; no start.

The man hurriedly fumbles in front of him.  He brings up a

newspaper, which he holds before his face.

THE DUDE

As he gets to the car.  He reaches through the open driver's

window and grabs the newspaper and hurls it to the ground.

He is revved with nervous energy.

The man nervously complies.  The Dude flinches at the man's

movement as he gets out.

The man cringes, reacting to the Dude's flinch.

He is wearing a cheap blue serge suit.  He is bald with a

short fringe and a mustache.

The Dude shouts to cover his fear:

The Dude is stunned.

He is fumbling in his wallet.

The Dude looks at the picture.

It is probably a school portrait, unmistakably Bunny, but

fresh-faced, much younger looking, with a corn-fed smile and

straight Partridge Family hair and bangs.

He is holding out another picture.

The Gundersons told me to show her this when I found her.

The family farm.

A bleak farmhouse and silo are the only features on a flat

snow-swept landscape.

Outside of Moorhead, Minnesota.  They think it'll make her

homesick.

He hands back the picture.

She's been kidnapped, Da Fino.  Or maybe not, but she's

definitely not around.

We hear distant yapping, growing louder with the hum of an

approaching car.

The Dude steps out to meet Walter's car as it pulls up, its

passenger window open and the pomeranian leaning out and

yapping.

DENNY'S

Four people sit at a booth:  Dieter, Kieffer, Franz, all in

black leather, and a young woman with long stringy blonde

hair, wearing torn and patched jeans and a ribbed sleeveless

tee-shirt, worn thin with age.  She is apparently braless,

and is teutonically pale with birthmarks on her face and

arms.

Notable  is  her  camera-side  leg,  which  ends in  a bandage-

swaddled foot.  Dried rust-colored blood stains the tip of

the bandage. The  four  are  arguing,  loudly,  in  German.

They seem  very unhappy. A waitress enters with a checkpad

and pen.

The German shouting stops.  Dieter looks sourly up.

The woman speaks to Dieter in German.  He nods.

WALTER'S CAR

Walter's eyes are on the road as he listens, driving, to the

Dude, whose speech is occasionally punctuated by yaps from

the back seat.

AS HE TURNS:

He is looking off as the car slows.  The Dude looks where

Walter is looking.

THE LEBOWSKI MANSION

Walter's car pulls up the drive into the foreground and he

and the Dude get out.

Both are gaping off at the front lawn.

THEIR POV

Tire treads lead across the manicured front lawn to where a

little red sports car rests with its hood crumpled into a

palm trunk.

TRACKING DOWN THE GREAT HALLWAY

Through the French doors at its far end we can see Bunny,

naked, briefly bouncing on the diving board before splashing

into the illuminated pool outside.  Heavy metal music filters

in from a boom box by the pool.

Brandt, approaching, stoops and straightens, stoops and

straightens, picking up the discarded clothes that run the

length of the hall.

We pull the Dude and Walter as they approach the doors to

the great study.  Walter's dog follows, stiffly waving its

tail.

BANG--the Dude and Walter push through the double doors into--

THE GREAT ROOM

The big Lebowski turns at the sound of the door.  His

wheelchair hums as he spins it around.

The dog yaps.

He is crossing to Lebowski.

Walter reaches around from behind and hoists the big Lebowski

out of the wheelchair by his armpits.

The big Lebowski waggles helplessly, his rubbery feet grazing

the floor like a Raggedy Ann's.  The pomeranian gaily leaps

and yaps.

He shoves the big Lebowski forward and he crumples to the

floor, weeping.

Walter is abashed.  The Big Lebowski flails about on the

floor.

Walter moves to comply.

THROUGH HIS TEARS:

The Dude has picked up the Big Lebowski's plaid lap warmer

and is frantically tucking it back in around his waist and

batting the dog away.

Walter, puzzled, hands on hips, stands over the big Lebowski.

TEN PINS

Scattered at the cut.

DUDE AND WALTER

Each with a beer at the scoring table.

The Dude and Walter look.

Quintana is bellowing from the lip of the lane, and is

restrained by O'Brien.

Walter looks at him innocently.

He makes hip-grinding coital motions as O'Brien leads him

away.

Walter, his head cocked, and the Dude, peeking over his

shades, watch him go.

BOWLING ALLEY PARKING LOT

Donny, Walter and the Dude emerge from the alley, each holding

his leatherette ball satchel.

They react to the droning synthesizer-based technopop coming

from a boom box.

REVERSE

Dieter, Kieffer and Franz, in shiny black leather, stand in

a line facing them in the all-but-deserted lot.  Behind them

orange flames lick gently at the Dude's car, which has been

put to the torch.  The orange flames glow on the men's

creaking leather.  Next to the car are three motorcycles,

parked in a neat row.  The Dude looks sadly at the burning

car.

The men in black, stunned, confer amongst themselves in

German.  Under his breath:

Walter answers, also sotto voce, his eyes still on the three

men:

The Germans stop conferring.

He pulls an uzi from under his coat.  It glints in the

firelight.

Walter ignores the Dude, addresses the Germans:

The Germans confer again, in German.

Donny is visibly frightened.

WALTER 'S TONE IS GENTLE:

THE CONFERENCE ENDS:

The Dude is digging into his pocket.

Walter's eyes, burning with hatred, are locked on Dieter's.

Louder, to the Germans, as he looks in his wallet:

He inspects the change in his palm.

With a ring of steel, Dieter produces a glinting saber.

In a rage, Dieter charges.

WALTER

hurls his leather satchel.

KIEFFER

Watching Dieter's charge, is caught off-guard.  The bowling

ball thuds into his chest and lifts him off his feet.

He falls back, his uzi clattering away.

WALTER

twists away as Dieter reaches him; grabs Dieter's head in

both hands; draws Dieter's head up to his mouth, which closes

on Dieter's ear.

DUDE

He rushes Franz but draws up short as Franz sends out karate

kicks, his leather pants squeaking and popping.  Franz gives

a loud cry with each kick; the Dude leans back, throwing his

arms up, evading the kicks.

WALTER

His jaw is still clamped on Dieter's ear.  Dieter draws his

saber against Walter's side, drawing blood.

Walter doesn't react to the wound.  Growling as Dieter

screams, he worries his ear, waggling his head with his jaws

clamped.

THE SABER

Dieter drops it.

DUDE

Awkwardly circling, evading Franz's kicks.

WALTER

still worrying the ear.  With a tearing sound his head and

Dieter's separate.

DIETER, EARLESS, SCREAMS:

Walter spits his ear into his face.

DUDE

The Dude and Franz, both now panting heavily, have yet to

establish body contact.  Franz continues to kick.

WALTER

draws back his fist.

Bam!--A powerhouse blow to the middle of his face drops Dieter

for the count.

DUDE AND FRANZ

With a piercing shriek Franz finally summons the nerve to

charge the Dude, hands raised to deliver karate blows.

As he reaches the Dude--WHHAP--the  boom box swings into

frame to smash him in the face.  Its volume shoots up.

Walter bashes him a few more times over the head.  The music

screeches to static, then quiet.  Laid out now, Franz too is

quiet.

All quiet.

Walter, panting, looks around.

With a hand pressed to his bleeding side he trots over to

Donny, who lies gasping on the ground.

The Dude, also panting, rises and trots over.

Donny gasps for air.  His eyes, wide, go from the Dude to

Walter.  One hand still clutches his eighteen dollars.

The Dude runs into the lanes.  Walter lays a reassuring hand

on Donny's shoulder.

FADE OUT

HOLD IN BLACK

THE DUDE AND WALTER

---

They sit side by side, forearms on knees, in a nondescript

waiting area.  Walter bounces the fingertips of one hand off

those of the other.  They sit.  They wait.

A tall thin man in a conservative black suit enters.  He

eyes the Dude's bowling attire and sunglasses and Walter's

army surplus, but doesn't make an issue of it.

He nods through a door.  Another man in a black suit enters

to carefully deposit a large silver urn on the desktop.

He is vaguely handing a large leather folder across the desk

to whomever wants to take it.

He takes it, opens it, puts on reading glasses that sit

halfway down his nose, and inspects the bill with his head

pulled back for focus and cocked for concentration.  Silence.

The Dude smiles at Donnelly.  Donnelly gives back a

mortician's smile.  At length Walter holds the bill towards

Donnelly, pointing.

POINT DUME -- DAY

It is a high, wind-swept bluff.  Walter and the Dude walk

towards the lip of the bluff.  Parked in the background is

one lonely car, Walter's.

Walter is carrying a bright red coffee can with a blue plastic

lid.  When they reach the edge the two men stand awkwardly

for a beat.  Finally:

The Dude clasps his hands in front of him.  Walter clears

his throat.

Walter clears his throat.

Walter is peeling the plastic lid off the coffee can.

AS HE SHAKES OUT THE ASHES:

The wind has blown all of the ashes into the Dude, standing

just to the side of and behind Walter. The Dude stands,

frozen. Finished eulogizing, Walter looks back.

He starts brushing off the Dude with his hands.

Heretofore motionless, the Dude finally explodes, slapping

Walter's hands away.

The Dude is near tears.

The Dude gives Walter a furious shove.

Walter for the first time is genuinely distressed, almost

lost.

He gives Walter a weaker shove.  Walter seems dazed, then

wraps his arms around the Dude.

THE LANES THE DUDE AND WALTER BOWLING

We watch each of them glide across the floor, release, follow

through--gracefully.  We have never seen them bowl before.

They are quite good.  Each wears a black armband on his

bowling shirt.

BAR AREA

The Dude walks up to the bar.

"Tumbling Tumbleweeds" has come up on the jukebox, and The

Stranger ambles up to the bar.

The Stranger's eyes crinkle merrily.

The bartender has put two gleaming beers on the counter.

THE DUDE, LEAVING, NODS:

Gazing after him, The Stranger drawls, savoring the words:

He gives his head a shake of appreciation, then looks into

the camera.

He brushes his hat brim with a fingertip as we begin to pull

back.

As we pull away The Stranger swivels in to the bar.  As his

voice fades:

