INT. UNKNOWN ROOM - NIGHT

Darkness. Silence. After a long beat, we hear movement,

confined and contained.

We then hear the sound of a man, PAUL CONROY, groaning,

making confused attempts at words. We hear his movement;

short, abrupt shifting, ending almost immediately with the

sound of his body banging against wood.

He screams, though it's clear from the sound that his mouth

is covered by something.

After attempting to sit up, he immediately bangs his head

against something. It's terribly warm and his breaths are

labored.

He attempts to move to his left and right, only to find that

he is confined on those sides, as well. He frantically

shifts about, only to discover, by touch, that he is encased

in something.

Something is very wrong, and he doesn't need to see to know

that.

Finally, we see him, lit by the flame of the Zippo he holds

in his hands, which are bound together in front of him with

rope. A rolled-up, dirty rag is tied tightly around his

head, stretched across his mouth. Dried blood stains his

hair and forehead.

We see that he is lying in an old fashioned, wooden coffin.

Nothing more than a few rotted-out planks of wood nailed

together. Realizing the same, Paul is struck by an

overwhelming, instant panic.

With great difficulty, and while still holding the lit Zippo,

Paul removes the muzzle from his mouth.

His words become almost unintelligible as he flails about,

though fear is understood in his every utterance.

He screams aloud, but his voice is captured by the coffin

walls.

He kicks and slams his hands against the top and sides of the

coffin, all to no avail. His violent movements cause small

grains of sand to trickle in through the space between the

sides and top of the coffin, as well as a small gap that

exists between one of the coffin's broken wooden planks.

Sweat cascades down the side of his neck, dripping from his

dampened brow. The heat inside the extremely close confines

of the coffin is stifling.

Paul continues with his futile efforts to pry off the top of

the coffin. The sides, the top, the bottom -- all are too

thoroughly reinforced by the force of what surrounds the

coffin. Sand. It becomes clear to him that he is buried.

He tries his best to calm himself, though he has trouble

catching his breath. It takes him some time, but he

eventually achieves some semblance of calm.

Getting a good look at him for the first time, we see that

Paul is somewhere around 37 years old. Unshaven and

physically unremarkable, he embodies the blue-collar American

everyman.

He coughs. The minimal amount of oxygen in the coffin makes

it hard for him to breathe.

His eyes widen a bit upon seeing an exposed, rusty nail. He

tries desperately to use the nail to cut through the old,

frayed ropes that bind his hands. Doing so is no easy task.

The incredibly tight quarters makes his every action nearly

impossible.

After a lengthy struggle, the rope snaps. Paul quickly frees

his hands. A small victory. Very small.

The heat is unbearable. Paul takes off his button-down

shirt, leaving him in a T-shirt. His body battles against

the walls and the ceiling of the coffin with every move he

makes.

He tosses his button-down shirt down by his feet. His

undershirt is drenched through with sweat.

Still trying to calm himself, but having little success in

doing so, Paul looks around the coffin. His feet, though

only his body-length away, seem miles from him.

He looks at the top of the coffin, and then back at his feet.

With great difficulty, he shifts his body so that his feet

are pressed against the top of the coffin. He attempts to

use his leg strength to push the top off of him, but it

doesn't move even a millimeter.

After several failed attempts, and with his legs exhausted,

Paul drops his feet from the top of the coffin. He lay for a

moment in silence, followed by an outburst of crying.

Close to his head, on the corner of the floor, we see there's

another broken plank. A small hole.

He closes his cigarette lighter, extinguishing the flame. In

total darkness, he continues to cry.

With his sobbing slowly subsiding, the coffin soon grows

eerily silent.

The sound of Paul's labored breaths are all we hear, softened

under the blanket of absolute darkness.

After a beat, the silence is interrupted by a subtle buzzing

sound. The muted sight of strange, blueish light flickers in

the coffin, by Paul's feet. He is extremely startled.

The buzzing continues, as does the minimal splashing of

light. It's coming from underneath his discarded button-down

shirt, down near his feet.

He lights the Zippo to get a better look.

Pulling the shirt away, he realizes that what he is hearing

and seeing is the vibrating ring and display features of an

older model cell phone.

He frantically reaches for it, though the coffin is far too

small for him to reposition himself so easily.

To his dismay, the phone stops ringing. But, his efforts to

reach it continue. He uses his feet to search for the phone.

After some trouble finding it, he eventually locates it.

Clamping the phone together between his clasped feet, Paul

then painfully angles his body so that he can reach his feet

with his hands and grab it.

He is soon able to reach it. Immediately thereafter, he

flips open the phone and puts the receiver in front of him.

We see that there is a Text Message waiting for Paul on the

phone. However, Paul barely notices.

The time on the phone reads 6:12pm. While the numbers and

display screen icons are familiar to Americans, all the words

are in Arabic.

What he does notices is that the phone barely has one bar of

signal strength. Worse yet, there is only half of the

battery life remaining.

He tries to remember the Safe Number he was given. With the

phone open and ready to be dialed, Paul struggles to recall

the information.

Getting only two digits into dialing the number, he cannot

remember much more and closes the phone.

He wedges the lit Zippo into sand, which is compacted against

a small hole in the wall of the coffin.

Paul reaches into his pants pocket, frantically searching for

something. He hastily removes a prescription pill bottle and

a small, metal flask. Both are not what he was looking for.

He then reaches to his back pocket and removes his wallet.

It's empty. His license, his credit cards, his cash and,

most importantly at that very moment, a piece of paper with

the Safe Number written on it, are all missing.

He screams aloud again, hoping greatly that someone can hear

him. His frenzied maneuvering puts out the flame of the

Zippo.

His words barely make it pass the coffin walls.

With the cell phone still in hand, and laboring to reclaim

the breath he just expended, Paul turns to desperation. He

dials the international code of 001, and then dials 911.

A FEMALE 911 OPERATOR answers almost immediately.

The Female 911 Operator places Paul on hold.

Paul accidentally bangs the cap of the Zippo against the

coffin wall, putting out the flame.

She quickly returns.

Paul is so incredibly panicked that he has trouble remaining

coherent. After a few sparks, the Zippo is re-lit.

You're in a coffin?

Yeah, it's, like, one of those old,

wooden ones.

Are you at a funeral home?

No. I don't know. No.

How are calling me right now?

What?

If you're buried in a coffin, where

are you calling from?

A cell phone. There was an old

cell phone in the coffin.

You're calling from your cell

phone?

Yes. No. It's not mine, but yes,

I'm calling from a cell phone.

There was a cell phone in the

coffin when you climbed in?

I didn't climb in.

How did you end up in the coffin,

sir?

I was put here.

In the coffin?

Yes. Please send help.

And you're saying the coffin is

buried?

I think so. It's...it's hot in

here. I can't breathe.

Do you know your location, sir?

I told you, I don't know.

Somewhere in Iraq.

Iraq?

Yes. I'm a truck driver, an

American. I work for CRT.

Are you a soldier, sir?

No. Please, please listen to me.

I'm a truck driver. I work for

CRT. I'm a civilian contractor

working in Iraq. We were attacked

in Baqubah, they...they...

...shot them. All of them.

They shot who, sir?

All of the other drivers.

And you're saying this happened in

Iraq? The country?

Yes. Please, you have to help me.

They gave me a safety number to

call, but I had it stored in my

wallet and --

Mister Conroy, this is 911

emergency in Youngstown, Ohio.

Realizing that his conversation is both lengthy and useless,

Paul ends the call. He checks the battery life on the phone.

It still holds steady at two bars.

He immediately dials another number, one that he can recall

with ease.

He again enters the 001 international code before making the

call.

Paul then dials his home phone. It rings several times, so

far unanswered.

After sitting through the agony of a few more rings, Paul is

met with the answering machine.

The voice of his young son, SHANE, is heard on the answering

machine greeting.

At the sound of the Beep, Paul leaves a frenzied, rambling

message.

Paul hangs up. He dials his wife's cell phone right away.

After several rings, her cell phone voice mail picks up. We

hear the sound of Linda, Paul's wife, on her outgoing

message.

The Beep sounds and Paul immediately tears into his voice

message.

Hearing himself say those last words gives him pause. The

gravity of the situation fully takes hold.

Paul ends the call. He nervously looks at the amount of

battery life remaining on the phone. Still holding strong at

two bars.

He notices the flickering light of the Zippo. It, too,

appears to be using up small amounts of oxygen. He closes

the lid, extinguishing the flame.

Total darkness. Silence, save for Paul's increasingly heavy

breaths.

He begins to hyperventilate. He knows that preserving oxygen

is paramount, so he does his best to calm himself. The

healthy swig he takes from his flask helps.

He flips open the cell phone. The light of the display

screen partially illuminates his face and some of the coffin

with a blueish hue. Paul again enters the overseas dialing

code, this time dialing 411 information.

The 411 OPERATOR answers.

Paul reaches for his button-down shirt. Fishes for pens

stashed in his lapel pocket, while keeping the phone pressed

to his ear with his shoulder.

Paul cannot bear to listen any further to this list that

seemingly never ends.

Paul is transferred to an AUTOMATED MESSAGE.

Paul writes the digits of the phone number on the top of the

coffin with his pen. But, after the first three numbers, the

pen stops working. He hurriedly reaches back into his shirt

pocket to remove the other pen, which is actually a click-up

pencil. Click-click-click-click. He writes the last seven

digits, followed by the word "FBI."

He presses the number one and is connected directly.

After a few rings, SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS answers.

Paul attempts to center himself so that he can accurately

tell his story.

Special Agent Harris sounds slightly skeptical of Paul's

claims.

Paul takes a moment to center himself.

The cell phone starts breaking up.

Suddenly, Special Agent Harris is not heard at all.

Paul checks the phone's display, where he sees that the call

has been lost.

Cell phone service temporarily goes down. Paul lights the

Zippo to help him see the cell phone screen. He tries to

make a call, but nothing happens.

He shakes the phone, moves it around the coffin, all in

desperate hope that he will get a signal. He soon does.

He looks at the number for the F.B.I. that he has written on

the wall, thinking about calling them back. He then checks

the battery life on his phone, which remains at two bars.

Paul then decides to make a different call, this time to a

phone number he has committed to memory: his employer back in

the U.S., Crestin, Roland and Thomas (CRT).

He closes the lid of the Zippo, extinguishing the flame.

After a few rings, a CRT OPERATOR answers.

Paul is placed on hold. Synthesized soft rock plays in the

background of the phone, maddening Paul further. Over the

music, a CRT SPOKESMAN is heard, speaking a recorded

testimonial during the on-hold message.

The message is interrupted by ALAN DAVENPORT's outgoing voice

message.

The BEEP sounds. Paul is confused as to why he was patched

through to someone in human resources, but leaves a message

nevertheless.

Paul notices that his phone has again lost signal.

Paul drops the phone to his side, the screen still emitting

its glow.

He explodes with a mixture of rage and fear. He screams and

flails his feet and hands wildly, banging them against the

walls of the coffin. His animalistic outburst causes the

phone to close.

The coffin returns to pitch black.

After a long beat, Paul lights the Zippo, which remains

wedged in the sand compacted against the small hole in the

wall of the coffin.

Paul takes a few moments to catch his breath. He looks again

at the cell phone. Remembers receiving a Text Message.

The icon on the phone's display indicates that he does, in

fact, have an unread Text Message waiting for him.

Paul quickly scrolls through the phone's menu, which is all

written in Arabic, until he reaches what appears to be the

Text Message option. Opening it, he sees a series of ten

numbers.

Using his click-up pencil, he scribbles the numbers onto the

top of the coffin. Next to the number, he writes the word

"HELP?" Noticing that his phone has again picked-up a

signal, he dials the number.

It rings once, but then the reception begins to falter.

After only two rings, the call is ended. Paul's frustration

mounts. He is barely able to fight off another fit of

hysterics. He dials the number again.

It rings once. A second ring. In the middle of the third

ring, someone answers -- but they do not say anything.

After a beat, Paul hears breathing on the other end of the

phone. He also hears a discordance of background sound; the

din of a room filled with Arabic-speaking men.

Still, Paul's words are only met with slow, measured breaths.

The person on the other end eventually speaks. An Iraqi man,

JABIR, talks forcefully and aggressively in broken English.

Despair falls upon Paul. It becomes clear that Jabir is

responsible for all of this. As such, Paul crosses out the

word "HELP?" Closes the lid of the Zippo, leaving only the

cell phone display screen to illuminate his face.

Silence on the other end of the phone.

Jabir hangs up the phone, forcing Paul to instantly come to

grips with the fact that he is being held hostage.

He lays back in the coffin, shell-shocked. Physically spent,

the cell phone falls from his hands and onto the floor. The

display screen casts a dim light throughout the coffin.

INT. COFFIN - MOMENTS LATER

The Zippo lights. Paul holds it in his hand, using it to

illuminate the inside of the coffin. He attempts to push it

into its now customary resting place, but the sand has

loosened, making it difficult for the Zippo to stay in place.

It almost falls to the floor.

Looking around, Paul sees there is a crack between two

planks, located on the opposite wall of the coffin. He

wedges the lit Zippo into the crack.

With his hands now free, Paul haphazardly positions himself

so that his back is facing the top of the coffin.

His every move is arduous; the claustrophobic nature of the

coffin bearing down on him.

Paul positions his bent knees underneath his chest, with his

shins and feet pressed against the bottom of the coffin.

Using the strength of his legs, he attempts to lift the top

off the coffin with his back.

Trickles of sand fall in from the side of the coffin,

sprinkling against the wooden base.

He fails, only to immediately try again. And again. And

again. Exhaustion sets in.

Staring ahead, the phone sits in front of him. He notices

that the battery life bars are still at one solid and one

blinking.

He grabs the cell phone, staring at it, trying to think of

someone else to call.

The battery life is limited. Every call has to count.

He tries to remember some phone numbers, but has trouble

recalling the information.

He cannot remember the number he's thinking of. He notices

that the flame of the Zippo flickers, indicating its use of

his much-needed oxygen. Paul closes the lid, extinguishing

the flame.

A second later, we see him, lit by the cell phone display

screen. He dials the international code for the United

States, followed by 411 information.

A MALE 411 OPERATOR answers.

Paul is switched to an AUTOMATED MESSAGE.

Paul writes Donna's number and name on the top of the coffin

and then presses the number one. He is connected.

Her phone rings and rings. Paul's frustration is evident.

The phone rings some more. Paul checks the battery life --

still at one and a half bars.

DONNA eventually answers.

Hearing her voice, Paul hurriedly places the phone to his

ear.

Donna interrupts. We realize, as does Paul, that her voice

was actually coming from her answering machine.

His hand falls to his forehead, defeated.

Donna picks up the phone.

Donna hangs up on him. Realizing this, Paul bangs his fists

and claws at the top of the coffin, bloodying some of his

fingers and knuckles in the process.

He violently tosses and turns and screams at the top of his

lungs, like an animal trapped in a cage. Tears spray from

his eyes as spit shakes free from his mouth by the force of

his shudder.

He eventually calms quite a bit. Sniffing away tears and

taking notice of the damage he's done to his hands, Paul

slows his breathing as best he can.

He lies there, motionless.

The silence is almost comforting. Paul closes his eyes,

regretfully accepting what appears will be his inescapable

fate.

After a beat, he calls Donna back. Knowing it is Paul

calling, she answers right away, attitude at the ready.

It takes every ounce of Paul's being to keep himself from

going off the deep end. He takes a beat to compose himself

and then finally offers a very delicate and deliberate

response.

We hear Donna put down the phone. In the b.g., we hear the

sound of keys being pressed on a computer keyboard.

After a beat, she picks the phone back up.

Paul writes the number on the top of the coffin, beneath the

man others. He writes the initials "S.D." next to it.

Paul hangs up on Donna mid-sentence. He dials the number the

State Department right away.

A STATE DEPARTMENT REP answers after a few rings.

Paul is placed on hold. As he waits, his eyes wander around

the coffin. He looks at the numbers he has written.

After a moment, REBECCA BROWNING, a State Department

official, picks up the phone.

Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone.

Even faced with Paul's sarcasm, Rebecca remains stolid.

Professional.

Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone. Paul

wonders if she is still there. The idea of being alone again

scares him terribly.

Worried, Paul lights the Zippo. The reflection of the flame

dances on his frightened eyes.

Momentary relief. After a beat:

Paul takes out his pen.

Paul writes the number onto the top of the coffin.

Paul writes "D. BRENNER" next to Dan's phone number.

Paul shakes his head in disgust.

Paul doesn't buy it.

Paul still contemplates contacting the news, but soon

acquiesces to Rebecca's pleas for him not to.

Rebecca's gone. Paul waits. Several beeps sound as he's

being transferred.

Paul hears a faint sound coming from behind him, outside the

coffin. While the beeps continue to sound, he lights the

Zippo, circumspectly looking behind him. He doesn't see

anything.

With the Zippo still lit, Paul takes a deep, centering

breath, followed by another.

A few more long beeps pass before a ring is heard. After two

rings, DAN BRENNER answers.

Dan is quick to figure out who it is that must be calling

him.

Paul is relieved. His first glint of hope has appeared.

Tears of joy instantly escape his eyes.

Paul looks at the display to find out.

What about my Zippo?

You have a lighter?

Yeah.

Use it to look around for markings,

a logo -- whatever you can find.

Won't it use up oxygen?

Not much. Don't worry about that

now. Try to find --

It's really dark in here without

it.

I understand, Paul. Try to find

anything in there that might

indicate where that coffin was

made.

You guys have to hurry.

We're working as fast as we can,

Paul.

Do you know if there were any other

survivors?

From your convoy?

Yeah.

That's still unclear at this point.

I just wanted to do right by my

family. That's all.

While on the phone with Brenner, Paul gets another call

coming in. He checks the display and reads the number.

Matching it against a number he wrote on the top of the

coffin, he sees that is Jabir calling.

The phone has rung several times. Paul fears that Jabir may

hang up.

Paul complies with Dan's demand and switches to the other

line.

Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and

six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.

Jabir retorts with a spirited conviction similar to Paul's.

Paul cannot handle his stress any longer. He begins to

crumble under the pressure.

Silence from the other end of the phone for an extended

period of time.

This surprisingly comes as good news to Paul.

Paul's hopes are dashed. His sanguine head falls back onto

the coffin floor.

Paul shines the flame of his Zippo lighter toward his feet.

He doesn't see anything.

Paul repositions his legs as best he can. He can vaguely see

the corner of a small metal box, partially sticking out of a

broken plank on the bottom of the coffin.

Jabir hangs up, ending the call.

Paul sits motionless for a moment, soaking in all that Jabir

has just told him.

He again looks down toward his feet. He can see the

protruding corner of the metal box, but it's positioned in

such a way that it will clearly not be easy for him to reach

it.

Paul then tries to clasp the box with his feet, but after

several unsuccessful attempts, he realizes that a new

strategy is necessary.

He makes efforts to reposition himself in the coffin, so that

his head and feet will ultimately switch places. He

struggles, inch by troubled inch, to make this maneuver.

Sweat pours down the side of his face. The extremely tight

quarters of the coffin make the repositioning nearly

impossible.

After expending a great deal of energy doing so, Paul

eventually completes the turn of his body. He examines the

small, rusted metal box. On it is a cartoon picture of a

small Arab boy and girl playing with a red rubber ball.

Skeptical at first, Paul carefully examines the box and

shakes it gently. Items are heard rummaging inside.

He carefully opens it. A fluorescent green light shines from

inside.

Paul looks inside and finds a lit, green glow stick,

fluorescing brightly and now illuminating much of the coffin.

He closes the lid of the Zippo. Removes the stick.

Looking into the small box again, he finds several other

items: a small, disused flashlight; a second, unlit glow

stick; a jackknife; and lastly, a folded piece of paper.

He slowly unfolds the piece of paper. We see that his ransom

message is written in an unintelligible mix of English and

Arabic.

Paul shakes his head and lets out a sigh of disgust. He

crumbles up the paper into a ball and listlessly drops it to

his side. He covers his face with his hands, his labored

breaths echoing in his palms.

Under the low-light of the green glow stick, Paul picks up

the phone and dials his home.

Per usual, he gets the answering machine. His son, Shane, is

heard on outgoing message.

Paul's eyes well up with tears. He smiles at the sound of

his son's voice. The Beep is heard. Paul hangs up without

leaving a message.

He looks at the time. It's 7:02pm. Battery life is holding

steady at one and a half bars. He remembers something.

Paul presses and holds down the shortcut button on the phone

that changes the ringer from vibrate to an audible tone.

The glow stick begins to slowly fade.

Paul dials Dan Brenner.

After a few rings, Dan answers.

Paul presses the green key, bringing up the last numbers

dialed and received.

Dan says something to someone who is in the room with him,

and then returns his attention to Paul.

Paul becomes angry, again sensing that more emphasis is being

placed on containing the situation than rescuing him.

Dan's heard enough.

Paul does not respond at first. Dan's retort clearly has an

effect on him.

Dan is reluctant to answer the question.

Paul writes "MARK WHITE" on the top of the coffin, below the

list of phone numbers. He circles the name.

The glow stick begins to fade.

Hearing this affords Paul some semblance of relief.

Paul shakes the glow stick, returning it to its full

strength.

This news calms Paul's nerves.

Paul checks his pants pockets. He removes a small, orange

pill bottle.

The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul shakes it,

causing it to brighten only momentarily before dimming again.

Dan ends the call. Paul lets out a deep breath, finding it

difficult to lay claim to its replacement.

He looks at his watch. It's now 7:18pm. The ticking sound

of the second hand turning is inordinately loud, due to the

extreme silence of the coffin.

Just then, the cell phone rings. Checking the number on the

display, Paul sees that it is Jabir.

Paul answers.

Jabir yells something in Arabic to the other Iraqi men we

hear in the background.

Collectively, they do not sound pleased. Slightly panicked,

in fact, though it is difficult to tell for sure.

Jabir is heard speaking with the men we hear arguing in the

background. Although they speak in Arabic, it is clear from

their tone that they are becoming worried and increasingly

hostile.

Jabir returns his attention back to Paul.

Jabir ends the call. Paul closes the phone to help conserve

battery life.

He then reopens the phone and scrolls through the menu

options. Everything is written in Arabic. He eventually

comes across an icon with a movie camera -- the video

function. He turns it on. Looks at himself though the

viewfinder.

After a beat, he closes the phone, clearly frustrated and

growing more panicked. His breaths grow heavy and rapid,

utilizing a great deal of oxygen.

Paul begins to freak out, restlessly squirming inside the

coffin and pressing against the sides and top.

The glow stick fades out almost completely, offering very

little light. Paul shakes it, but with no change to its

brightness. Moments later, it dies. Paul tries the

flashlight. Click-click. Click-click. Nothing.

He bangs it a few times with his hand. The white light turns

on, but quickly turns back off. He twists the top, which

causes the flashlight to switch bulbs. A red beam emits

momentarily. Paul twists the top again and gives the

flashlight a few good whacks.

It turns on. White light shines dimly on his face.

He takes a breath.

In efforts to calm himself, he once again removes the orange

pill bottle from his pocket. He pours two into his hand. He

then removes his small, metal alcohol flask from his back

pocket and takes a large swig, swallowing the two pills in

the process.

Still, Paul's heavy, labored breathing continues. He drops

four additional pills into his and swallows them with yet

another generous pull from the flask.

He sits and waits. Nothing is happening, except that his

extremely limited time keeps passing.

After a moment, Paul picks up the cell phone. He holds it in

front of him, hesitant to make a call. After some

consideration, he dials.

After a few rings, a NURSING HOME NURSE answers.

We hear the Nurse walk down the tiled corridor floor. She

soon reaches Paul's mother's room.

Paul's mother, MARYANNE, answers. Her voice is pleasant but

confused. It's clear that she suffers from advanced stages

of Alzheimer's Disease.

It's almost too much for Paul to take. He cries silent tears

over a heartbroken smile.

Maryanne doesn't respond.

Paul ends the call and instantly begins crying his heart out.

He lays there, sobbing relentlessly.

After a long beat, the cell phone rings. Decidedly different

than his past reactions to an incoming call, Paul seems

hopelessly disinterested. The ring is maddening.

He mindlessly presses the shortcut button, resetting the ring

to vibrate mode.

He eventually picks up the phone, but there is not anyone on

the other end. It's then that he sees that it was not a call

that came in, but instead was a picture message.

Pressing what appears to be the Accept button, the incoming

picture begins to download.

Several seconds later, the picture downloads and an image

appears on the display of Paul's cell phone. It's of a woman

-- bound and gagged, a gun pressed against the side of her

head.

Paul frantically dials the number to reach Jabir. As soon as

the phone connects, Paul begins his desperate plea.

The Woman is heard in the background of Jabir's phone, crying

muffled words through her muzzled mouth.

Jabir does not fire his gun. Paul attempts to catch his

breath.

Jabir hangs up, ending the call.

Paul reaches for the balled-up piece of paper that has the

ransom script written on it. It takes some trouble for him

to grab it, but he is soon able to.

Placing the flashlight next to the paper, Paul is again

reminded of the incoherent nature of the script.

He drops the paper to his side and opens the phone, setting

it to the video record function. He places the flashlight

close to his face so as to make his image more visible on the

small, phone display screen.

He presses the record button.

The flashlight goes out. Paul continues speaking in the

darkness. After a few quick smacks, the flashlight turns

back on.

Trying to think of more to say, Paul soon opts for not saying

anything further. He saves the message and then sends it to

Jabir.

We see that the screen displays an icon confirming the video

has been sent.

Paul places the phone on his chest. Still rubbing his

temples, his eyes begin to flutter a bit. He tries to

control his breathing and remain calm.

He opens the phone and displays the photo of the Woman. He

stares admiringly at her, hoping dearly that she will not be

harmed.

The effects of the anxiety pills finally taking effect, his

eyes soon close and he drifts off to sleep.

INT. COFFIN - LATER

Darkness once again. We hear the sound of Paul slowly

awaking, followed the sight of Zippo sparks.

It doesn't catch. The second glow stick is snapped,

illuminating the coffin with a fluorescent green hue.

Paul starts to move, but suddenly freezes. His eyes widen.

His pupils dilate. Something is clearly very wrong, though

we cannot see what.

His eyes slowly shift downward, as if watching something move

down his body. Beads of sweat form across his brow. His

measured breaths are held for as long as they can be.

Moving excruciatingly slow, Paul lowers the glow stick toward

what he is looking at.

A shape moves across his stomach, underneath his T-shirt.

Paul's eyes are fixed on whatever it may be. He cautiously,

slowly, moves the glow stick even closer.

The shape disappears just as the light of the glow stick

shines on whatever it may be. Still, Paul does not dare make

any sudden move.

Paul's pant leg moves slightly, starting at the top, slowly

undulating toward his cuff.

Paul leans the glow stick in further. And further.

Carefully. Moving a millimeter at a time. He shifts the

position of his head slightly, charily, to see next to his

feet.

He leans in even closer with the glow stick. But then --

-- his wary movement comes to immediate stop.

It's a snake. A two-foot, saw-scaled viper. It has

positioned itself in the corner of the coffin, inches from

Paul's feet.

His terror evident, Paul very slowly pulls his feet back

toward his upper body, away from the snake. The confined

space offers little room for safety.

The snake turns its muscled neck to face Paul. Their eyes

meet for the first time. The snake hisses, poised to strike

at any moment. Paul raises his foot. Steels himself.

Prepares to preempt the snake with a solid stomp.

A more sensible plan soon prevails. After lowering his foot,

Paul cautiously removes the flask from his pocket. Slowly

unscrews the top. Splashes a small amount of alcohol on the

floor, close to the snake.

The snake recoils slightly, but then menacingly twists itself

into a new posture, ready to attack. Paul lowers the Zippo

to the small puddle of alcohol. After a few sparks --

-- it lights. A flash-fire. The snake flails and hisses

wildly at the other side of a small fire wall.

The flame soon goes out. Paul moves fast. Throws more

alcohol, this time some of it lands on the snake itself. He

places the already lit Zippo against the puddle of alcohol

near the snake.

Another flash-fire, this time burning the snake. It hisses

loudly. Threateningly. It swings back and forth,

challenging the small wall of fire.

The fire soon extinguishes. The snake burrows into the hole

from where it likely entered the coffin, disappearing into it

with haste.

Paul hurriedly stuffs the hole with his discarded button-down

shirt. He then pours a small amount of alcohol over the

shirt and temporarily puts the flask on the ground, but does

not screw the cap on securely. He then wedges the lit Zippo

between a small space between two wooden planks.

With the snake situation handled, Paul finally lets out a

sigh of relief. Rubs his eyes. Tries to regain his

faculties. Looks over the list of phone numbers written

above him.

Suddenly, the cell phone vibrates. Paul frenziedly searches

for it, but he cannot find it. He then notices it has fallen

into the small hole near his feet, out of his reach.

He makes several attempts to grab the phone with his feet,

but he is unable to do so. It continues to ring.

His next efforts involve repositioning himself in the coffin

so that he completely turns to face the opposite end.

Struggling through each move, Paul painstakingly begins to

turn himself. While turning, however, he inadvertently kicks

the Zippo from the side of the coffin -- landing it on the

floor, up against the glow stick -- and knocks over the

flask.

We see that the flame of the Zippo slowly melts the plastic

glow stick, causing it to dim slightly.

Worst still, and completely unbeknownst to Paul, a stream of

alcohol slowly makes its way from the flask and toward the

flame of the lighter, threatening to set the coffin ablaze.

Inch by inch, the flammable spirit gets closer.

Still in the midst of his repositioning, Paul looks back and

sees the alcohol nearing the flame. In a panic, he attempts

to reach and grab the Zippo. But, he finds himself stuck in

the middle of the coffin. He can't budge either way.

Desperately straining every muscle in his body, he extends

his arm backward toward the Zippo, hoping to move it away

from the spilled alcohol. He still can't reach it, yet he

tries with all his might.

The phone stops ringing. He has missed the call.

He tries blowing at the flame, but his head is too far away

and his breath is not strong enough to do much more than

cause it to flicker.

With the alcohol now mere inches away from the flame, Paul

reaches for his shoe. His odd positioning makes reaching his

foot almost impossible. He struggles to undo the laces and

remove it from his foot.

With his face beet red from the force of his strain, Paul

finally removes his shoe. The mere inch of leg room this

creates allows him to slide his leg out from under him.

The trail of alcohol is just about to come into contact with

the flame --

-- but Paul deftly maneuvers his body just in time to

awkwardly kick the Zippo out of the way and close the lid.

Paul breaths an enormous sigh of relief as he sits in the dim

light of the damaged glow stick. He notices another hole in

the coffin. As a precaution, he stuffs it with the cloth

that had previously been used to gag him.

Just as he is about to grab the phone, he hears what appears

to be the faint sound of a Muslim call to prayer being

announced over the citywide PA system. The sound barely

makes its way through the hundreds of pounds of sand that

envelop the coffin.

A sign of hope, as well as a point of reference for his

location -- albeit a very vague one.

He listens further as the call to prayer continues. The

light of the glow stick dims further.

Paul then opens his phone. Sees that he missed Jabir's call.

He starts to call Jabir back, but stops. He instead

navigates through the various display menus. He soon reaches

what appears to be the Tools Menu, though it's difficult to

tell because everything is written in Arabic. He becomes

frustrated as he fails to find what he is looking for.

On the verge of mental surrender, he sees something that

gives him pause. A smile crosses his face.

We see, on the display of the phone, that Paul has found a

listing of languages. He scrolls past many -- "FRANCAIS,

DETSCHE, ESPANOL" -- stopping at "ENGLISH." Presses the

button, instantly making all the text on the screen readable.

He quickly navigates to the Tools menu. Scrolls down.

Locates the number of the cell phone he is using.

He scribbles the number onto the top of the coffin. Then a

second pass, making it bolder than the others.

Paul then dials his wife's cell phone. After only a few

rings, he is met by her voice mail.

The beep sounds, and Paul frantically proceeds right into his

message.

Paul hangs up. He looks at the battery life left on the

phone. One bar. He then checks his watch. It's 8:19pm.

Both are not good signs, and he knows it.

He begins to panic. Grabbing the pocket knife that was left

inside the metal box, he slides the blade in the space

between the sides of the coffin and the top.

Paul grabs the glow stick. But, because it was partially

melted to the floor, the stick snaps in two. Liquid oozes

out of the small portion of the stick that remains stuck the

floor.

Paul grabs the flashlight. Turns it on. It works for a

second, but then goes out. Shaking it only produces

intermittent beams of light.

He turns the top, switching to the red bulb. It works. The

coffin fills with a reddish hue, but then it, too, goes out.

Growing incensed, Paul switches back to the white bulb. It

works.

He returns his attention to the coffin. His efforts to use

the knife as a fulcrum are futile. Still, he tries. Bending

the blade well past its design, it nearly breaks off its

handle.

The flashlight turns off. After a good shaking, it turns

back on, emitting white light.

With oxygen levels extremely diminished, efforts of this kind

are all too much for Paul to take. He has to stop and try to

catch his breath.

As he endeavors to get his wind back, the cell phone rings.

Not a call this time, but instead a video message. It has

been sent by Jabir.

Paul's trepidation is evident. He fears what the incoming

video may show.

After a beat, he presses the Accept button and the video

downloads. Within seconds, the video plays on his phone

display screen. We see, in the video, the American Woman

that previously appeared in a picture message that was sent

to Paul. She is still bound at her wrists, but her gag has

been lowered.

She sits on her knees. Standing behind her are three men,

all with their faces shielded by Arab headdresses. They each

hold AK-47 assault weapons.

Paul watches in horror as the terrified woman speaks, through

her tears, into the camera.

The Woman, Pamela, looks off-screen to her right. Someone is

fast approaching her. She cowers, protectively holding her

bound hands in front of her face as she screams.

Another Iraqi man steps into the camera's line of site, a

handgun already brandished.

Without as much as a moment's hesitation, he fires two rounds

directly into Pamela's head, killing her.

The video message ends immediately thereafter. Paul is in

complete shock.

He screams aloud, slamming his closed fist against the bottom

of the coffin.

Still in the throes of emotional torment, Paul vomits on

himself. He doubles over, only to vomit once again.

His body, taxed almost to the point of complete physical

breakdown, gradually slows and levels itself. With his vomit-

smeared face pressed cheek-down onto the bottom of the

coffin, Paul stares into nothingness.

After a beat, his eye catches a glimmer of light -- the blade

of the knife, reflecting off the beam of the flashlight.

Paul reaches for the knife. Lying on his back, still

suffering enormous mental strain, he places the cutting edge

of the blade against his neck. His jugular vein.

His hand shakes, his lips tremble.

The hand that holds the blade tightens its grip on the

handle. It, too, shakes.

Paul closes his eyes.

A small amount of blood begins to drip from the side of his

neck, where the blade of the knife rests, ready to open his

vein.

After a great deal of consideration, Paul throws the knife to

the foot of the coffin.

He can't do it.

The flashlight falls from Paul's chest. It turns off upon

landing on the floor of the coffin.

Paul sits in darkness. His breaths echo off the coffin

walls.

After a beat, he turns on the flashlight. It turns off after

less than two seconds. This time, however, he does not shake

it, nor does he hit it.

A moment later, we hear a click, followed by the sight of a

red light beam emitting from the flashlight. It holds

steady.

Paul shines it onto the names and phone numbers written on

the top of the coffin. He stops at "MARK WHITE."

After a beat, he lowers the flashlight to his side.

He picks up the phone and dials Brenner. After one ring,

Brenner answers. He's clearly not pleased. Paul, however,

is surprisingly calm. Detached. Almost disturbingly so.

What is? What are you talking

about?

All of it.

All of what?

Nobody gives a shit about any of

us. We're nothing to you people.

We're going to find you.

By looking the other way?

You can't start breaking on me now,

Paul. You have to stay strong.

You let her die.

No I didn't.

They shot her...and you didn't do

anything.

We didn't even know she had been

taken hostage.

She sent three videos.

That's what they told her to say.

Why?

I don't know.

What do you know?

That your ransom video already has

47,000 hits on YouTube. And all

the major networks are playing it,

including Al Jazeera. So, now your

captors have no choice but to

follow through.

I found out the number to this

phone.

How?

I found a way to change the display

language. I figured that out, and

you didn't. Why?

Because I didn't. Just like you

and every other person on this

planet, there are some things I

know and some things I don't.

Then how are you ever going to find

me?

Their signal was cloned, like we

figured. But, we're close. Real

close.

What about mine?

We're working on that, too.

I'm near a Mosque. I could hear

the call to prayer over the P.A.

Good. That means that we're in the

right area.

You're nearby?

After a beat:

Paul doesn't answer at first.

After a beat:

The cell phone service begins to cut out. Suddenly, the

coffin begins to vibrate slightly, dropping sand granules

through the crack and onto the wood bottom, followed by the

faint sound of an explosion.

Within seconds, the explosions grow louder and more

proximate. The vibration becomes so intense that it

violently shakes Paul around the coffin.

The sound of jet plane engines are heard coming from above,

flying by as the massive explosions continue.

Sand seeps in through the crack between the top and sides of

the coffin as it shakes. Paul does his best to brace

himself, but the bombardment is far too powerful.

A large crack forms in the wooden cover to the coffin,

spanning almost its entire length. Sand immediately pours

through the concave shaped crack, seeping in onto Paul like

an hourglass.

Fearing that the top of the coffin may collapse under the

immense pressure from the sand above, Paul positions himself

underneath it and presses with all his might. He grunts and

screams loudly, using what little strength he has left to

keep the top from caving.

The shaking soon stops, though the steady flow of sand

continues.

In efforts to prevent the sand from filling the coffin any

faster, Paul removes the button-down shirt from the hole and

stuffs into the area where it enters with the greatest

volume. He removes the balled-up cloth from the other hole

and does the same with it. Both offer very little help.

The flashlight falls to the floor. The red light beam turns

off. Darkness. The sound of sand steadily pouring down.

Paul clicks the flashlight to a different setting. White

light shines, but then goes out. He shakes the flashlight

and it stays on, shining its normal white beam.

He assesses his situation, noticing that the coffin is

already filled with a small layer of sand; a situation that

is only going to get worse with time.

We see that Dan Brenner is no longer on the phone, and that

the display menu shows an icon of a phone with a line through

it -- No Service Available.

Once he feels it is secure enough, Paul slowly moves his body

away from the crack. Although slightly caved, it does not

show any more signs of possible collapse.

Sweat drenches his face. His eyes affixed, in utter

disbelief, on the sand as it spills into the coffin, filling

in around him inch-by-inch.

He grabs the cell phone, only to see that he does not have a

signal.

He shakes the cell phone and moves it all around the coffin,

hoping that it may somehow help. His efforts are futile.

The flashlight goes dead. He hits it, shakes it. It turns

back on. The brightness is diminished.

Still the sand continues to fall, drowning him deeper and

deeper in a pool of granules.

Then, very surprisingly, the cell phone rings. Paul answers

right away.

Alan Davenport answers calmly from the other end.

The flashlight goes out. Paul hits it a few times and it

turns back on.

Paul finds Alan's obvious concern with doing damage control

to be infuriating.

Paul's visage expresses his confusion.

A click is heard in the b.g. of Alan's phone, followed by a

low, steady hum.

Alan's speech becomes very laconic. His questions are

clearly being read from a Human Resources handbook of some

kind.

The flashlight goes out again.

Paul hits it, but it does not catch. He sits in darkness.

Paul hits the flashlight. It turns back on.

The flashlight dims. Paul angrily shakes it, returning it to

full strength.

The flashlight begins to slowly dim.

Alan breaks from the H.R. handbook script, though his tone

remains just as matter-of-fact. The flashlight continues its

steady, slow dim.

The flashlight dims even more.

Paul sees where Alan is going with this. He's thunderstruck.

Alan takes a second before trying again.

Paul does not answer.

After a long beat:

A click is heard. The humming ceases.

Alan ends the call.

Paul looks at the phone -- it is still holding a steady

signal. Battery life, however, is running quite low. All

that remains is one blinking bar, indicating that Paul has

very little battery life left.

He shakes his hand free of the pile of sand that now covers

it and looks at his watch. It's 8:31pm.

The flashlight bulb dims until it goes out completely. Only

the light of the cell phone display lights the coffin.

Wasting little time, Paul dials Jabir. The phone rings and

rings, but Jabir does not answer. Checking to make sure the

he dialed the correct number, Paul matches it against the

phone number he wrote onto the wall of the coffin.

Seeing that he did, in fact, dial correctly, Paul again tries

to call Jabir. While he waits through the many rings, he

tries relighting the Zippo. Spark...spark...it catches.

No one answers. Paul's disquietude is evident in his

increasingly erratic behavior.

Paul tries Jabir once again, but still he does not answer the

phone.

It's then that something occurs to Paul. He stares at the

crack in the top of the coffin and the sand that pours in at

an alarmingly fast rate.

The crack has split Jabir's written phone number in half.

The aerial bombing. He wonders how it may have affected

Jabir and, consequently, his own chances of survival. He

places his hand under the point from where the sand pours in

most, allowing it to collect on his palm and slip through his

fingers.

The flickering Zippo flame tells of the diminished amount of

oxygen.

Paul attempts to control his breathing, realizing full well

that there are not many more breaths he will be able to take.

He then calls Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Brenner

answers.

Paul is surprisingly serene.

The Zippo flame flutters. Weakens.

Dan does not answer.

Paul appreciates Dan's effort, but he knows there is little

hope left for him.

After a long beat:

Paul doesn't say a word. He knows that Dan is lying. After

a beat, Dan comes clean.

The flame of the Zippo becomes smaller. It clearly has

little life left.

After a long beat, Paul ends the call. He forces a smile to

his lachrymose face.

Utterly hopeless, he opens the phone and turns on the video

feature. He turns the phone to face himself, projecting his

image on the display.

He presses Record.

Paul ends the video and closes the phone. He carefully

places the phone into his pocket, where it may hopefully be

found if he ever is.

He lays back, staring at the almost completely extinguished

Zippo flame, as the sand continues to rain on him.

Down and down it pours, the sands of time passing might and

main through the cracks.

The Zippo flame goes out. Paul sits in the darkness,

resigned to what apparently will be his fate.

Hold on black for several seconds...until --

-- suddenly, from inside Paul's pocket, he hears a faint

vibration. It's the cell phone. He looks at the number of

who is calling him. Shines the light of the cell phone on

the list of numbers written on the top of the coffin. He

can't believe what he's seeing.

Paul answers immediately.

Jabir is heard speaking frantically in Arabic to the several

other people in the room with him.

Jabir turns his attention to Paul.

Sounding panicked, Jabir again speaks in Arabic to the other

people in the room with him. They respond accordingly.

Paul tries to turn on the flashlight. It doesn't work.

Jabir returns his scornful attention to Paul.

Paul shakes and hits the flashlight. It still does not work.

Jabir utters something in Arabic to someone standing next to

him, seemingly asking a question and getting an answer from

the same individual.

Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight. Switches the

positioning of the batteries. Screws the cap back on. Hits

the switch.

Nothing.

Jabir returns to the phone.

Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight again. Removes the

batteries. Bites down on them a few times. Blows hard

inside the flashlight tube.

Paul puts the batteries back inside the flashlight. Begins

screwing on the cap.

Jabir again says something to someone in the room with him,

returning to Paul after a brief moment.

Paul finishes closing the top of the flashlight.

Click. The flashlight turns on!

Paul considers Jabir's question to be a potential sign of

compassion.

Even this basic knowledge is enough to make Jabir's threats

that much more real.

Jabir ends the call. Realizing that Jabir is gone, Paul

quickly dials his wife's cell phone.

After several rings, her voice mail picks up.

Paul hangs up. He takes a moment to look around, noticing

that the coffin is almost halfway filled with sand.

Paul then dials Dan Brenner. After only one ring, the call

goes directly to voice mail.

The flashlight starts to dim. Paul shakes it, causing it to

regain its strength.

The beep sounds. Paul delivers a frenzied message.

Paul hangs up the phone.

Unsure what to do next, Paul's heartbeat races. He fidgets,

nervously shaking and tapping his thumb against the phone.

He questions the validity of Jabir's threats toward his

family.

Paul opens the phone and brings up the photo of Pamela, bound

and gagged. The image causes Paul to second guess himself.

The flashlight goes out. The cell phone's display

illuminates Paul's face.

He then replays the video in which Pamela is seen being shot.

Reliving the experience is extremely painful, though his

concern is more on his own family at this point. However,

the video is enough to convince Paul of Jabir and his

cohort's convictions.

Paul tries the Zippo. Nothing. Only sparks. He tosses it

aside.

His breathing grows erratic and labored. His eyes dart from

side-to-side, his throat groans involuntary noises of fear.

Paul then looks at the knife, and then at his watch. He has

less than two minutes to send the video to Jabir.

Fearing for the safety of his family, he must meet Jabir's

demands.

He hits the flashlight a few times. Click. It turns on.

Paul opens the phone and sets it to take video. He places it

flat onto the surface of the sand, which by this point is

already filling the coffin halfway. He then reaches for the

knife.

He places his hands against the side of the coffin, spreading

his fingers. He stares intently at his thumb.

With the extremely sharp knife in hand, Paul slowly lowers it

just above his thumb. He inhales and exhales deep breaths,

almost hyperventilating.

Paul then reaches into the sand and finds one of the expired

glow sticks. He shakes the sand off of it and places it

across his mouth, biting into it hard.

His heart races, his breaths are the deepest he's ever taken.

After placing the flashlight on the ground, to ensure that

the camera picks up the image, he presses the record button

on the cell phone.

Grinding his teeth into the glow stick and letting out a

primordial scream, Paul closes his eyes and chops down with

the knife.

We see, through the display screen of the phone, Paul sever

his thumb with a swift chop of the blade.

A small spray of blood spatters onto his face as he screams

out in unfathomable pain.

He falls to his side, still screaming and writhing. He

reaches for his discarded outer-shirt, which is still stuffed

in the crack to help slow the influx of sand. Removing the

shirt from the crack instantly causes the sand to fall into

the coffin more rapidly.

Paul wraps the shirt around his hand. The blood quickly soaks

right through it.

He is fading fast. His blood loss is great. Shock sets in.

He musters up the strength to send the video to Jabir.

To secure his shirt over the wound, Paul removes his belt

from his waist and pulls it tight over his wrap.

Growing increasingly more pale, Paul teeters on the verge of

consciousness. Everything becomes blurry to him.

The phone falls from his hand. He shivers. His lips turn a

light shade of purple and his face ash white. Everything

becomes more and more blurry. He fights with every last

ounce of strength to remain conscious.

While laying against the side of the coffin, the phone

vibrates once again. To Paul, the vibration against the wood

seems so distant, so foreign. The vibration grows louder and

louder in his mind, sounding more and more like the sound of

rotating helicopter blades.

He then hears what sounds like VOICES, yelling from on top of

the coffin.

The cacophony of voices form a mosaic of sound in Paul's

head, each overlapping the other in distant echoes. Shovels,

digging deep into the ground, are heard banging against the

top of the coffin.

The top of the coffin is torn open, sending a brilliant ray

of white light onto Paul. He stares into the light, crying,

eking out a tortured smile.

Suddenly, Paul is back in the same predicament. The voices,

the shovels, the light -- it was all a hallucination, brought

upon by his loss of blood.

He's still alone. He's still in the coffin, which continues

to fill up with sand. He is too exhausted to display his

disappointment.

The phone continues to vibrate. It soon stops. Paul is in

too poor condition to show any concern.

After a beat, the phone begins vibrating once again. After

several rings, Paul languidly picks it up. He barely

recognizes the number through his extremely blurred vision.

He's so weak, he's barely able to formulate words. He spits

out stray particles of sand from his mouth.

Paul doesn't have the strength to answer.

This news serves as somewhat of an adrenaline rush for Paul,

who musters up even the modicum of strength he seemingly did

not have left in him.

An impossible smile fights its way to Paul's lips. His

momentary joy is just that, however, for the sand has almost

completely filled the coffin by this point.

Paul is very hopeful that Dan is correct in his assumption.

A beep is heard. Paul has another call coming in. He's

visibly elated upon seeing who it is.

Paul switches to the other call, despite the fact that he has

a mere eight inches left before the entire coffin is filled

with sand from top-to-bottom.

He holds the flashlight just above the top of the sand pile,

allowing it to illuminate what little unoccupied area

remains.

Linda is in hysterics, which is evident in her speech.

The flashlight dims. Paul shakes it, regaining a bit of its

strength.

The flashlight flickers. Paul hits it. It flickers some

more.

The flashlight continues to flicker almost like a

stroboscopic light from this point forward.

Linda breaks down in joyous tears.

Paul then receives a call on the other line. He checks to

see who's calling. It's Dan Brenner.

Paul clicks over to the other line, where Dan Brenner waits

to speak with him.

We hear Dan yelling to people who are with him. A great deal

of commotion and action is heard through the phone.

Dan yells to one of the soldiers who are with him.

Dan gets back on the phone with Paul

The flashlight fades. Paul hits it, momentarily returning it

to full strength.

Meanwhile, the sand inside the coffin has almost reached the

very top. It continues to pour in from the crack, seemingly

faster than ever.

Paul struggles to keep his head above the sand, giving him

only a few inches between his face and the top of the coffin.

Paul fights to keep his head above the sand. The flashlight

dims.

The level of sand grows even higher. Paul spits away falling

sand that threatens to suffocate him.

A SOLDIER is heard OFF-SCREEN in the b.g. of Dan's phone.

Paul coughs out sand. He has a mere inch left above his

head.

The Soldier is again heard OFF-SCREEN in the b.g. Of Dan's

phone.

Nondescript noise is heard through the phone, until it comes

to an abrupt stop.

We see the circled name of "MARK WHITE" written in capital

letters on the top of the coffin.

The battery life on Paul's phone runs out, causing it to

power down. The filament of the flashlight bulb burns out.

As it does, the sand finally consumes the coffin, filling it

completely.

We hear Paul's muffled screams emanate through the sand,

until we no longer hear them at all.

