Mr. Gateau, blindly feeling his way up the stairs...

We see "Mr. Cake" in his familiar hat, his wife holding

his arm, standing among the rows of coffins.

An old New Orleans cemetery, vines crawling the

sepulchers.

Mr. Gateau blindly setting the last spring, closing up

the clock back... finished at last.

And we see a large throng gathered to watch the unveiling

of the clock. Politicians, citizens, and pickpockets

alike...

And we see the distinctive figure of Theodore Roosevelt,

in overcoat and hat, the war heavy on his shoulders. We

watch Mr. Cake, with the aid of an assistant, climbing

the scaffolding to his clock covered by a velvet drape...

He stands for a moment... and with a simple tug, releases

the purple swath... People gasp at the magnificent

clock... "Mr. Cake" winds the clock, which chimes a

glorious chime... Pushed by an angel, the second-hand

begins its eternal journey...going around... Everyone

cheers... until they realize the clock is going the wrong

way... traveling backwards in time... A man shouts, "It's

running backwards!"

And we see just that... bullets leaving mens' wounds

sailing back into the rifles from whence they came...

limbs, whole again... cannon balls rocketing backwards

into the cannons' breech... Fallen come to their feet, to

live and breathe again.

Teddy Roosevelt, bereft, removes his hat...

And we see his own son, Martin, once again full of life

hopping backward off the train to land where his journey

started... back in the arms of his loving parents...

And his wife holding his arm, he makes his way across the

terminal and exits... The crowd is motionless. They look

to Teddy Roosevelt for guidance... but he simply puts his

hat on, and with his guardians, is gone...

Mr. Gateau, blindly rowing... away...

The wind loudly rattles the window...they turn to look...

It's quiet, Caroline sitting on the bed with her dying

mother... with the wind knocking at the window... After

some moments:

As if to say the pieces haven't all fit... trying to

articulate it...

Caroline doing what she's asked goes over to one of the

suitcases by the bed... She opens it... and among the

clothes and the keepsakes, there is indeed an old

envelope.

Daisy closes her eyes... Caroline takes out a sheath of

papers... It's a journal of some kind written in

longhand... Pages have come undone... scraps of paper,

even some napkins...

And for her mother's sake she begins to read it... with

no particular interest, like reading to someone a

selection from a menu's choices...

She's interested. She looks over at her mother.    But her

mother's eyes are closed...

And Caroline's voice becomes a young MAN'S voice...

THERE'S SUDDENLY AN EXPLOSION OF FIREWORKS.

We see the streets of New Orleans are filled with

drunken, singing revelers... cars jamming the

cobblestones, people kissing, shouting joyful... Another

burst of fireworks.

And we see in the fireworks' light, a young MAN in his

early 30s, THOMAS BUTTON, running up to the gate of a

fashionable town home. He nearly collides with a PRIEST

who arrives there at the same time. Thomas runs past

him, up the steps...

...He runs past a solemn Maid and up a long staircase...

barging into the MASTER BEDROOM...

... where we see a young Woman is lying on a bloody bed,

frantically being administered to by a DOCTOR with the

help of the small domestic staff... the PRIEST enters...

And the Priest bends to say last rites over the pretty

young woman... and the maids, bringing bedsheets,

futilely start to change her bloody linens...

They move out of the way... and Thomas kneels beside his

wife... She's pale white, fear in her soft brown eyes...

He takes her hand...

As if to underscore it, fireworks go off...

And she is interrupted by the sudden CRY OF A BABY.    But

Thomas can't take his eyes from his dying wife...

He doesn't understand... She looks up at him... holds his

hand tight... then she slips away... The Doctor listening

for her pulse... He covers her... it's quiet... the

Priest's murmured incantations... the housemaids

crying...

Thomas, still holding her hand, is unable to let go...

When we hear again the BABY CRYING... The BABY'S CRY is

not quite right... It is not an infant's cry for succor,

or a natural cry to exercise its new lungs... It's a

deep, haunting cry from some primal soul... They all

turn, and the room stills... listening as The BABY

continues its mournful WAIL. Only Thomas goes to

answer... The Baby in a basket, swaddled in a thick

blanket, its face covered with cloth... Thomas goes to

lift it, to see his son's face...

He lifts the cloth anyway... He recoils... for he has

seen some kind of horror... He makes the smallest of

sounds, a whispered "Ohhhh." And then he suddenly

snatches up the swaddled baby -- running with it out of

the room... downstairs... outside...

... Thomas, tears on his face, carrying his CRYING BABY,

through the streets... Pushing through crowds...

... he comes along an old bridge over a waterway... the

air heavy with the haze of fireworks... the water dark...

brokenhearted, he lifts the baby to throw it into the

black water... He is just at the apex of this throw when,

despite his sadness, he can't bring himself to do it...

Instead, cradles the newborn...

A LANTERN lights his face... A POLICEMAN down the way...

The BABY starts to CRY...

Thomas takes off... the Policeman after him... Thomas,

carrying the CRYING BABY, running...

He smiles, tips his hat... And they stand in the quiet...

And if right on cue an older white Woman sticks her head

out...

The woman disappears inside.    Queenie, not anxious to

go...

He pushes open the porch screen door...

He offers her his hand... She takes it... He backs out of

the house, holding her hand, and he suddenly steps right

on top of the Baby... The baby wails, Tizzy stumbles,

nearly falls...

She moves to it... pushes aside the blanket, and freezes.

IT IS THE VERY FIRST TIME WE HAVE SEEN THE BABY. What we

see is the prominent bald head of any newborn... but it

has the face, the wrinkled skin, the faded eyes, of an

octogenarian. Indeed, if we didn't know any better, it

would seem the newborn was a wrinkled decrepit sad-eyed

old man...

And they're both motionless, not quite sure what to do...

The BABY won't stop its mournful cry...

Queenie hesitates... a longing.

And making up her mind, she suddenly grabs up the crying

baby, taking it inside... Tizzy, anxiously whispering

something, going in after her...

A piano's playing a standard, people singing.... There's

a myriad of old dark rooms... heavy furniture and

carpets... an eclectic mixture of the possessions of

those who have lived and died here over many years... and

we see a parlor is crowded with Old People, from sixty to

ninety-five, in various stages of health... various

contraptions to keep them "afloat". An Old Age Home. We

see Queenie moving quietly along a hallway, carrying the

crying baby so as not to be seen. Tizzy, following her,

still anxiously whispering after her...

He does what she asks. She hurries the baby into a small

room, literally like a mouse house, under the stairs...

A small room tucked under the staircase...

There's a KNOCK on Queenie's door.

She whispers to The Baby, soothing it. And looking for a

place to put it, she opens a dresser drawer...

And with that she puts The Baby into the top dresser

drawer... with her unmentionables... and shuts it...

leaving it open just a crack, enough to breathe...

Turning, she sees an Old Woman, looking very lost,

looking in the room...

There's a sound of a door chime...

Queenie takes a concerned look back at the Baby, and

closes the door... And we stay behind for a moment...

inside Queenie's underwear drawer, with the smell of a

lilac sachet... is the Baby with the face of an old

man... looking up at the sliver of light coming into the

dresser drawer...

We see the Doctor, an older man in a tired suit, who has

done this longer than he cares to remember, finishing

examining one of the elderly boarders. He puts his

things into his doctor's bag. Queenie comes beside him,

saying something...

The Baby is lying on Queenie's bed... Dr. Rose,

stethoscope ever dangling, washes his hands in a sink.

They're still, looking at the strange baby.

She looks at the Baby, determined.

The Old People are sitting around the parlor talking,

playing cards... Queenie brings the baby bundle into the

room.

And they stop what they are doing...

We see Tizzy's come out of the kitchen , watching with an

air of strong disapproval... And an OLD WOMAN says...

Queenie hesitates, and gives the Baby to her... The Old

Woman pushes the blanket back from the baby's face...

And there's laughter...

They all laugh. Their laughter makes the baby seem to

smile... the lonely smile of an old, dying man.

We see Queenie, unable to sleep, lying in bed, looking

out a small window... there's a light KNOCK on the

door... Tizzy...

She nods... The baby cries out... and then it's quiet...

With nothing left to be said, he starts to go...

He slows.    She's quiet.     And she whispers:

And as they move to be with one another, to make love; we

look over at the dresser drawer -- open just a crack...

Benjamin lying among the unmentionables, looking out at

the world...

Caroline with the "journal" on her knees. Daisy, eyes

closed... the wind gathered in strength... furiously

knocking...

Caroline shrugs.   She looks through the "book..."

She discovers inside...

She gives it to her mother, folding her hand around it.

But Daisy is somewhere else, looking out the window...

And we see "Mr. Cake's" clock with its cherubs pushing

the "hands of progress," still marking time backwards...

The year is now, "1925..."

EVENING, 1925

The boarders eating dinner. Queenie, in a white

uniform... along with Tizzy, wearing a chef's hat and

apron, helping her serve. We move across the ancient

faces... until we come to one particular face... Wearing

eyeglasses now... but the same wrinkled face we've come

to know... the face of a very old man...

The face of Benjamin Button, when he should normally be a

six-year-old. He's sitting in a wheelchair now... small,

shrunken, hunched with age, legs and hands crippled with

arthritis... Eyeglasses are just one addition... a

hearing aid... a bulky apparatus of its time, is in one

ear... But if we look even closer we can see there are

sprouts of hair... wisps of white... what would be the

last hair for some... seem to be growing in... As we

watch him eat, he uses his fork like a child might,

banging it just for the hell of it making noise...

And he does as he's told... A staff member helps one of

the old men, feeding him... Benjamin just another old man

having dinner with his contemporaries.

A line of old people in rockers. Benjamin, like any six-

year-old, bored, wheels his chair back and forth, between

them... until one of the oldsters, who has had enough,

sticks his cane in the spokes of his wheelchair, making

him come to an abrupt stop... Benjamin, sitting with the

other oldsters on the porch... the old people rocking...

Sounds drift from the street beyond the wall... children

playing... people talking...

Nobody says anything, rocking. Benjamin, eternally

curious needing to know, suddenly wheels himself

precariously to the very edge of the porch where the wall

is lower and he just sees the street... children running

on the street, playing... carriages dropping people off

for a party... He leans forward to get an even better

view... When Queenie suddenly grabs him...

...Rolling his wheelchair away from the edge to the

safety of the old people... out of sight of the street...

The small room with the small window. We see Benjamin in

a bed made on the floor... Queenie in her bed...

And he reaches to hold her hand. She generously takes

his hand... And they lay like that holding hands, Queenie

in bed, her "son", the "old man" on the floor...

We see the door quietly open, Tizzy coming in...

He looks at Benjamin, his signal to pick him up, carrying

him out of the room, sitting him in his wheelchair, Tizzy

going back down into the room to be with Queenie...

shutting the door...

An Old Woman's fallen fast asleep in an easy chair, a

book on her lap. Benjamin sitting alone in his

wheelchair, listening to the sounds of the house.

Be he still wants to know "What's over there?" He wheels

himself over to sit at the window looking outside...

looking at the streetlights, the world beyond the gate...

trying to see what's dangerous...

And we see the very elderly General Winslow, doing just

that... raising the flag in a downpour, only... he's

naked. And as Queenie comes running across the lawn with

a coat for him. There's the sound of SOMEONE SINGING

OPERA...

We see a Victrola playing, Mrs. Wagner in her nightgown

at a window singing with the musical accompaniment at the

top of her lungs... while, down the hall we see Queenie

giving Benjamin a bath... massaging his poor crippled

legs...

We see Benjamin in his wheelchair, under Tizzy's

tutelage, learning to cook... and simultaneously, to

read...

Some staff come in getting platters of food...

Tizzy smacks the back of his head.

Tizzy washing dishes...Benjamin working with him...

putting away cans... reading from one of the labels...

Tizzy swats at him with his dish towel...

And while washing the dishes...

Benjamin's mouth agape, awed, taken by him, his majesty.

Benjamin never thought about it...

An old man looks in...

A sweltering shout 'em up Negro gospel tent. Queenie

pushes Benjamin in his wheelchair past a line of people

looking to be healed, bringing him face to face with a

mountain of a PREACHER, pouring sweat and full of fire...

And Queenie whispers something to him.

He puts his hand on her stomach...

He presses on her stomach... making Queenie nearly fall

over... held up by a "NURSE" in a crisp white uniform.

And once she's regained her balance...

And he says what is only true.

The congregation laughs...

And Benjamin, doing what he's asked, barely able to, his

legs akimbo, stands... The people all applaud...

And Benjamin takes two very precarious steps and his poor

arthritic legs give out... and he sprawls to the floor...

The Aides in white nurse's uniforms move to help, but:

But Benjamin stays crumpled on the floor... The Preacher

comes to his feet, standing like a mountain over him...

Benjamin still lies on the floor...

And Benjamin, slowly but surely, makes his way to his

feet...

And Benjamin, one crippled leg at a time, hobbles across

the stage... The people urging him on... a string of

"Hallelujahs...!" Queenie comes to join him... urging

him...

...The Preacher, walking along with him, more a dance

than a walk, shouting the name of the Lord... Queenie and

The Preacher walking Benjamin across the stage...

Benjamin making it to the other end... to a roar of

"Amens"!

... That mountain of a Preacher... in full exaltation to

God...

Suddenly pitches over, flat on his face... Having had a

spontaneous coronary... lying center-stage, deader than

the proverbial doornail... The crisp uniformed "nurses"

running to attend to him, and poor "old" Benjamin

haplessly looking around.

The people are gathered...

Benjamin and Mr. Oti sitting on a bench at the peristyle

of a park. Benjamin takes his first slug of a coca cola,

taking too big a hit, the coke pouring out of his nose...

Mr. Oti gives him a handkerchief... after he's wiped

himself up...

He smiles a knowing smile...

He looks out...

He looks at his watch.   He suddenly gets up...

Mr. Oti and Benjamin coming along the street, music

pouring out... They reach a corner where a tall octoroon

woman is waiting. She broadly smiles seeing Mr. Oti.

Although he's not sure he can... he nods, yes.

And with that, his arm around Filamena's waist, the two

of them laughing, walk off... Benjamin's left standing on

the street corner... he looks around to get his

bearings... he moves along Bourbon Street... A streetcar

comes along, bell clanging, it rushes by him... he

watches it go... Clasping his canes, determined, he

starts walking... bent over, one cane after the other...

making his way along the street...

We see Benjamin coming back to the gate... and we hear:

And we see Queenie standing on the porch... She's worried

sick... she sees his hands are bleeding from blisters.

Queenie cleaning his hands...

And the "caregiver," Dorothy Baker, comes back in.        She

feels Daisy's pulse, straightens her pillow...

Dorothy nods.

She leaves. It's momentarily quiet, the wind knocking at

the window... Daisy, ruminating...

But Daisy's mind is elsewhere...gesturing for her to keep

reading...

Caroline looks back at the book.       Daisy closes her

eyes...

The boarders on the lawn with their loved ones... And we          *

see an OLD MAN, walking with the aid of a cane coming out         *

of the house onto the lawn... And as he moves through the         *

people we see it's Benjamin... He has a single cane,              *

standing more upright now, a distinctive shock of white

hair, eyebrows... A distinguished looking man in his              *

seventies, or, in normal years, a growing twelve-year-old

boy...

A chauffeured car has stopped... A Man is standing in the

road, looking at the house through the gates... And we

realize it's THOMAS BUTTON... looking for a glimpse of

his son... Benjamin instinctively turns, but it's too

late, his father's back in the car, being driven away...

He turns, an older woman nearby...                                    *

He laughs...And there's a voice that cuts through the                 *

day...                                                                *

Benjamin, and Grandma Fuller turn to see a little girl,               *

no more than eight, standing on a picnic table top doing              *

pirouettes, one after another, for an admiring group of               *

old people...she full curtsies, bowing --the way dancers              *

do head to chest... then raising her head, laughing...                *

And with great dignity -                                *

The families, along with Ngunda and Filamena, are

gathered in the dining room, their heads bowed in prayer.

We see Daisy across from Benjamin... The prayer's

finished, it's noisy...

They're quiet.

The people applaud the good news.

And we can see Benjamin's heart beginning to break... he

looks over, Tizzy, proudly smiling... And as Queenie

accepts congratulations... Benjamin's old wrinkled face,

watching her... looks like he's going to cry...

We see an ABSTRACT BLACK AND WHITE DRAWING.       And we hear

a woman's voice...

AN OLD FINGER comes in pointing to a drawing. We see                  *

Benjamin and Daisy, sitting close together on a sofa, and             *

Daisy's grandmother, arm encircling them, is reading to               *

them from Rudyard Kipling's "Just So Stories."                        *

Benjamin and Daisy sitting rapt while she finishes                    *

reading to them...                                                    *

Both Daisy and Benjamin, thrilled, say: "Again. Read it        *

again."                                                        *

They both "I promise..." And as she starts to read all         *

over again...                                                  *

We see Benjamin asleep in bed with one of the Old Men,

MR. DAWS. The door opens. And Daisy, in her nightgown,

has come inside... she slightly touches Benjamin...

He shakes "no."

She moves quickly out of the room and Benjamin gets up,

and with the aid of his cane, follows her...

The old house still. Daisy, moving quietly down the

stairs. Benjamin, his cane softly thumping the steps,

following her.

She doesn't say anything. She leads him into the DINING

ROOM... where we see the wash has been draped, sheets and

pillowcases, like ghosts over the dining room table, and

a smaller side table, and a buffet...to dry...

And she ducks under a sheet, beneath the dining table...

Benjamin follows her into the "fort..."

They sit... The little girl, and the old man with the

maturity of a ten year old boy, enjoying their secret

lair... She takes a candle out of the folds of her

nightgown... She tries to light it, but doesn't really

know how to use matches...

Despite his caution, he lights the candle... the

candlelight making it feel more secret...

Benjamin doesn't know what to say.

Daisy looks at him in the flickering candlelight.

She innocently reaches to touch the skin on his cheek to

see what it feels like... When suddenly a sheet is pulled

back and Daisy's grandmother is standing there.

She angrily blows it out... and... to Daisy... taking her

by the arm...

And they're gone... Benjamin left sitting along under the

sheets. There's a slight sound and he sees Queenie, in

her nightgown, standing in the doorway...

He crosses up the back stairs with the aid of his cane,

and Mr. Oti, like a spectre, is sitting on one end of the

back steps smoking a cigarette, drinking form his flask.

He looks at Benjamin as he goes by.

Benjamin turns down the hallway and slips into the

bedroom --

Benjamin climbing back into bed with the Old Man.

Turning his back to the old man. And Mr. Daws, unable to

sleep...

And we see just that, the old man on a roof getting

blasted.

And we see that, the man peacefully crossing a country

road to get the mail, getting hit by lightning... But

Benjamin just lays there looking out the window... all he

can think about... despite everything...

The words linger. Daisy, her extraordinary blue eyes,

lying on her death bed... the rattle of the window in the

wind...

She nods "yes."

She doesn't say anything.

We see Benjamin in his pajamas, quietly coming into the

kitchen for something to eat... And he slows, seeing

Queenie, taking a moment to herself, sitting at the

kitchen table, peacefully breast-feeding her infant... as

Benjamin slips back out unseen, closing the door after

him...

We see Benjamin lying on a small bed in the ATTIC...

cluttered with years of accumulated things...

There's a noise. And we see Ngunda Oti is at the door, a

suitcase in hand.

He starts to go...

And he's gone.   Benjamin gets up going to the window.

He looks outside. He can see Mr. Oti come onto the

porch. There's a full moon. And as he walks off, his

arrogant little walk, suitcase in hand, going out the

gate, Benjamin watches him disappear into the night.

Benjamin sitting at a table, an old man to look at but no

more than twelve, busy playing with magnets...

We see a refined, genteel OLD WOMAN, wearing a hat and

gloves, a suitcase at her feet, flanked by an old DOG,

just inside the front door...

And just then Queenie appears, the baby on her hip...

Benjamin, like any young boy, immediately pets the old

dog...

Benjamin helps her with her bags showing her up the

stairs...the old dog dutifully following them...

The woman starts to tell him her name... but we don't

hear it because...

Benjamin sits petting the dog while the Woman puts her

things away...

We see the Woman dressed nicely, sitting in a chair

reading a book. She takes a look out the window at the

families on the lawn and bends back to her book.

The Woman sitting with Benjamin teaching him how to play

piano...playing a classical piece like Chopin...Benjamin

trying his hand...sounding pretty bad...

And she plays a ragtime piece...New Orleans music...music

for the other whole part of the soul... Benjamin tries

his hand and actually plays it fairly well

And he plays along with her...a piece he won't soon

forget...

We see Benjamin taking a bath. An he notices a single

gray hair floating on the surface...

And he sees some hair is under his arms... and as he

looks downward...

Benjamin, naked, looking at himself in a mirror... like a

young teenage boy...

And as he flexes his muscles, feeling like a man.

It's started to rain, the wind blowing, splattering rain

against the window. Knocking.

She hurries out of the room. Daisy looks out the window.

The maelstrom of wind and rain. Caroline comes back with

a Nurse.

She adjusts the morphine drip.      Daisy lays back.

Daisy starts to feel the effects of the drip...

Caroline nods.    The Nurse nods.

She affectionately touches Daisy's cheek.

Caroline nods.

Another NURSE looks in...

The Nurse quickly   goes out of the room. Caroline sits

back down looking   at her mother...Daisy opens her eyes...

they look at each   other... Caroline knowing Daisy wants

to hear the sound   of her voice...

Daisy shuts her eyes...

The busy docks... Men waiting, hoping to find work...

And we see Benjamin, with Mr. Daws, "the lightning man,"

sitting on a bench with a line of other old men, "killing

time," watching the boats going up and down the River...

And we see just that, Mr. Daws, along with a cow of his,

being hit by lightning.

Benjamin turns... And he sees a man in his late 40s with

his three man crew, standing on the deck of a TUGBOAT,

and old rusted tug built out of charcoal iron... The man,

its Captain MIKE... Has a thick Irish accent... For some

reason none of the able-bodied men needing work

respond...

Benjamin suddenly springs up at the opportunity, waving

his arms...

And as Benjamin gets on the boat, heading out to sea...

And we see Benjamin "learning the ropes..." Helping to

tow the freighters, into and out of the River ports...

Benjamin in this element, like a boy, his hair blowing,

thrilled to be on the boat, thrilled by the adventure...

willing to do anything...

And he hops to it... Happily scraping off the bird

shit... Happy to be doing anything...

Mike's a hard drinker, God's last angry man... He's

drinking as they go in for the night... Benjamin sitting

with him in the wheelhouse... Capt. Mike jawing away...

Music playing loud... We see Benjamin and Capt Mike at

the bar... Mike, hammered...

And he suddenly takes off his shirt, pulls down his

pants... And we see he's covered, from head to toe, with

"his artwork," and incredible array of tattoos...

And they look it, upside down sideways and backwards...

Which stops Captain Mike in mid rant... And he has no

answer for... His only response is to glare at

Benjamin... A back door opens, a slinky woman coming

in...

As they go...

Captain Mike and Benjamin in a small parlor where girls,

both black and white, are sitting around...

Captain Mike knows just who he wants and moves off with

her... Benjamin left standing, not knowing what to do...

None of the women seem to anxious to be with the old

man...

And she's finally able to go...

Benjamin turns to leave... we hear footsteps... And we

see a man, putting on a raincoat, coming downstairs from

one of those other rooms... We see it's Benjamin's

father... THOMAS BUTTON... Seeing Benjamin he slows...

Benjamin, unaware of who he is, turns and goes out...

It's a rainy night. Benjamin, feeling like a million

bucks, walks along the street, going home... A

chauffeured car pulls alongside him, the window rolled

down... And we see Thomas Button in the car...

He gets into the car.

They drive in awkward silence.

They shake hands.

A small old bar. Benjamin and his father sitting in the

back... The waiter comes over, deferring to Benjamin's

age...

The waiter leaves.

Thomas is quiet.    And for many things...

Thomas looks at him... They get their drinks... Tap

glasses, and drink. Benjamin coughs at the taste... But

forces it down... And as they laugh at his discomfort...

Thomas and Benjamin deep in conversation... and both of

them more than a few sheets to the wind... Benjamin,

particularly overblown like any first time drunk...

And there's a moment when it seems like Thomas might tell

him, but despite the alcohol he thinks better of it...

After some moments:

The waiter comes over.

He takes out a little of his hard earned pay... proud of

himself...

The car's stopped outside the gate... Benjamin is

drunkenly getting out...

He starts to wobble inside...

Benjamin slows...

Benjamin turns inside. Thomas looks after him for a long

moment... And then he drives away...

Benjamin holding the railing for support starts up the

stairs for bed.

And we see Queenie has been sitting in the front room...

where she can see out the window...

He doesn't mention the whore... But generically says...

And right on cue Benjamin, wobbles...

And to finish the evening, he throws up.

The family's on the lawn...

Daisy, nine now, asleep in bed with Grandma Fuller... We

see Benjamin quietly enter... He gently nudges Daisy

awake...

Daisy, always willing, always brave, gets up...

And he leaves the room as quickly as he came...

Benjamin, in an old peacoat, holding another -- waits...

Daisy comes out... as he stops the door from slamming...

He gives her a heavy coat...she puts it on... It's two

sizes too big for her...

And she follows him between the houses... the two of them

going quickly down the street...

Fog. The first light of dawn. A full compliment of

boats tied up for the night... They scamper along the

dock... to the "Chelsea" ...Benjamin helps her climb

aboard...

He goes downstairs to find -- Captain Mike sprawled

across his bunk -- in all his naked tattooed glory, an

empty bottle on the floor...

Captain Mike opens one eye... sees them standing there...

He doesn't.

Captain Mike just squints.

That notion stops him for about a nanosecond.

The tugboat making its way through the fog... Benjamin

standing with Daisy on the prow... the wind in their

faces... And suddenly out of the fog a HORN BLARES... As

loud as anything they have ever heard... and moving out

of the mist, horn still echoing, a huge ocean liner

appears... With three other tugboats pushing it to sea...

Captain Mike joins the tugs at the liner's side... the

tugs sounding horns of their own... a symphony of a

kind... What interests Benjamin...

Passengers line the railing... continuing their

adventure... And what interests Daisy...

Daisy, thrilled, waves to them -- the passengers along

the rail, waving back... Benjamin stands by Daisy, their

hair blowing in the salty air....

As they watch the liner, like a foggy dream, sailing

away...

The rain and wind knocking at the window...

And there's a hint of anxiety in Caroline now... anxiety

coupled with exhaustion... Daisy doesn't say anything.

Caroline worriedly looks out the window.

Daisy doesn't respond.

Caroline can only listen... She takes a deep breath,

gathering her strength...And when her mother's settled

again...

She murmurs, "Hmmm?" as if she didn't know Caroline had

stopped. Caroline looks back down at the book.

1935

We see Benjamin's REFLECTION in a mirror... WE PULL BACK

TO SEE we're in his friend's room...

Benjamin sitting in a straight back chair... getting a

haircut... the dog at their feet... the VICTROLA, as

usual, is working overtime...

And she then says, taking the wind out of his sails...

He's quiet, he hadn't thought of that...

He's still... And seeing he's upset, she says the most

beautiful of things...

We see Benjamin knocking on the Woman's door...

There's no response. He opens it, going inside... The

Woman is sitting in a chair by the window, the dog at her

feet, the familiar Victrola playing dance music... He

comes around the chair. And he sees she's still...

perfectly still... her soul moved on...

We see an old New Orleans paupers' cemetery... Benjamin

and the mourners, and because he can't remember her name,

around an unmarked grave...

As Benjamin watches the woman go to her final rest.

We see Benjamin taking some things out of a dresser

drawer, packing a suitcase...

We see him putting some final things into the suitcase,

closing it...

We see Benjamin moving through the parlor, one by one,

saying his good-byes to the old people...

The familiar faces... And as we watch him affectionately

touch or talk to each of them... we can just see out a

screen window DAISY, almost thirteen now, leaning against

the side of the house... Out of sight... as if she didn't

say goodbye, he wouldn't leave...

We see TIZZY on the porch holding Benjamin's suitcase for

him... The woman's old dog lying beside him...

And we see Queenie has come out onto the porch with her

little girl... and he holds Queenie... tears running down

her face...

He bends to pet the old dog goodbye... He takes up his

suitcase and starts off the porch... going down the

walkway... he hesitates, and opens the gate... moving out

onto the street... When suddenly Daisy is calling him...

She comes running.   He stops to let her catch up to

him...

And with so much she wants to say, she can't say

anything. So she runs away... He watches her go,

watchers her thin legs running back down the street...

and he turns and moves off along the street...

We see him in the distance, the "old man", a 17 year old,

suitcase in hand, going to find out who he is and what he

is to become...

Daisy's quiet.   Caroline can't avoid the howling of the

wind.

Caroline, not sure what she wants, opens a red velvet

bag... she finds a wooden cigar box...

She gives her the box... Daisy, opens it... It's filled

with postcards... Daisy, going through them...

She takes one out, reading it... Taking up some others...

looking... reading where they came from... reading off

like an adventure...

Daisy, the postcards, fond memories spread out on the bed

around her...

Caroline takes another look at the window, then takes up

the book...

