FADE IN:

The TRACK is SILENT.

The CAMERA looks at a sign.  It reads:

Gradually we can begin to hear, in the BG, the SOUNDS of

CHILDREN playing.

In the BG a few dozen CHILDREN, in camp uniforms, are enjoying

a game of softball.

In the FG CLAUDETTE is looking for someone.  CLAUDETTE is 17

years old.  She is pretty.  She wears a t-shirt with "Assistant

Counsellor" written on it.  She fills out the shirt very well.

Failing to find whomever she is looking for, CLAUDETTE walks

quickly in the opposite direction.

The CAMERA holds on the game for a few seconds and we

SUPERIMPOSE:

The CHILDREN'S VOICES FADE slowly.

ECU as a COUNSELLOR squeezes off a shot.

The paper target is ripped in the black.

The COUNSELLOR hands the weapon to a CAMPER who snaps in at the

line.

CLAUDETTE shouts up to the COUNSELLOR from the BG.

The COUNSELLOR smiles.  Shrugs.

CLAUDETTE leaves.  The COUNSELLOR smiles.

Two CHILDREN run by carrying Indian headdresses.  CLAUDETTE

passes them impatiently as she sees BARRY and CHLOE.

BARRY is leaning against the front rail of the porch, his arms

behind his head--the better to show off his physique to CHLOE,

and Assistant Counsellor, who is currently looking at him with

cow eyes.  In the BG we can hear a portable radio blaring out

an Everly Brothers hit.

BARRY is 17, handsome and out for all he can get.  He is not

ashamed for being caught with this other good-looking girl.

BARRY looks at CHLOE, then eases off the rail.  Nods.

shoulder at CHLOE, and saunters off with the former.

The Everly Brothers continue as we:

From over the tops of a rack of canoes we see BARRY and

CLAUDETTE walking along the shore.

In the BG, CHILDREN leap into the water.

The TRACK goes SILENT.

BARRY & CLAUDETTE walk along a path.  This is not an aimless

walk, for BARRY knows exactly where he wants to go.  He leaves

the path and goes to sit on a log in a small clearing.

CLAUDETTE hesitates, then goes to sit next to him.

He puts an arm around her and draws her close.  They kiss.

They separate.

BARRY decides to be politic.

She kisses him and they are locked.

A bird calls, wheels across the patch of sky above.

The CAMERA shifts to ANOTHER ANGLE:  Just beyond the thicket of

lacy vines.  It is a slow tracking shot which gives the

impression that we are watching the action from the POV of

another person, an unseen visitor...watching the two teen-aged

Assistant Counsellors making their first sexual encounters.

This unseen observer will be called the PROWLER.

BARRY reaches up outside CLAUDETTE'S t-shirt to hold her

breast.  She reaches up to take his hand away.

He ends the argument by snaking his hand inside her t-shirt so

that part of her bra is exposed.  He seals her protesting lips

by kissing her.

From the PROWLER's POV, the CAMERA MOVES to get a better angle.

A hand moves into FRAME and pulls back some branches to clear

the field of vision.  A branch pops.

BARRY leans in and unhooks her bra.  They kiss again,

passionately.

The PROWLER pauses, then moves, never seen--except for a bit of

foot or hand--from the POV of the CAMERA, closer and closer as

the two TEENAGERS become more and more oblivious.

Closer.  The THEME has snuck in.  It becomes discordant.  It

swells.  Closer.

QUICK CUT to BARRY & CLAUDETTE'S faces, their eyes closed, the

perspiration streaking their flushed skin.

Suddenly CLAUDETTE looks up into the CAMERA with terror.

A hatchet flashes into FRAME and CLAUDETTE goes down under the

blow.

The CAMERA TURNS TO BARRY.  The PROWLER's powerful hand has him

by the throat.  He backpeddles, trying to get away.

ANOTHER ANGLE: as BARRY is stopped against a tree.

A hunting knife soars against the leafy sky.

BARRY grabs the knife-hand at the wrist.  The knife falls to

the mossy floor of the clearing.

Two hands go for the free blade.  BARRY's hand has it.

There is a confused jumble of struggle.

Onto the bed of moss falls the little finger of the PROWLER.

REACTION SHOT:  BARRY, horrified by the sight.

The PROWLER's hand has the knife.  It moves quickly forward.

We can hear the blade strike.

BARRY stares up at the sky in a soundless shriek.

MCU the moss where the finger fell.  The PROWLER reaches into

FRAME, picks up the finger, and exits FRAME.

QUICK CUT TO:  CHLOE, out searching for the missing Counsellors.

She stands at the edge of the clearing, her hands pressed on her

temples, her throat filled with a scream of terror.  The MUSIC

has stopped abruptly.

THE SCREEN BLEEDS TO WHITE.

It is completely SILENT.

The screen is completely black.  A small white shape starts to

ZOOMS towards the FG.  The shape becomes a three-dimensional

rendering of FRIDAY THE 13TH.  Just as it gets to its final

position, the FRIDAY 13 logo shatters a previously unseen pane

of glass.  There is a loud crash.  The logo shifts to the upper

left corner of the FRAME as we ROLLS TITLES, white on black.

The THEME MUSIC is a reprise of the THEME we heard during the

Forest sequence, now done in a childlike arrangement.

TITLES END and the MUSIC fades out.

The TRACK is SILENT.

In a LONG SHOT we see the one main street.  A newspaper

delivery truck drives away from the CAMERA.  A GIRL walks down

the street.

Superimposed title:

A MEDIUM SHOT in front of the bank reveals a day/date/time/temp

sign which blinks:

We can begin to hear a small-town DJ OVER as a pick-up truck

moves down the street past the GIRL in her late teens.  She has

a knapsack, a freshly scrubbed face, jeans, and a plaid shirt.

She wears her hair in a long braid.  She wears Nike jogging

shoes.  This is ANNIE.

In CU a hand moves to turn down an old brown plastic radio from

which Big Dave is doing his morning-man routine.

The radio is turned way down.  We see that the hand belongs to

TRUDY, a hefty waitress who wears her golden hair in a bun with

a pencil stuck in it.  BUDDY, the boss, is seen in the BG

working the grill.

The regulars are there:  five MEN and two WOMEN who always come

in for breakfast.  They are the retailers, the oil delivery

man, the switchboard operators, and the cop.

ANNIE walks in the front door, crosses the past the cash

register and walks down the counter.

The OIL MAN nods.

ANNIE steps aside as the OIL MAN heads for the front door.  He

is smirking.  He's fifty, strong, and balding.  He makes no

attempts to hide his appreciation for ANNIE's figure.

They exits.

TRUDY looks around, does a take, then laughs.

ANNIE walks a half step behind the OIL MAN, heading for his

truck which is parked there on the street.

ANNIE wonders if she should accept the ride with this guy.

Suddenly, from between two parked cars pops RALPH, a crazy hobo

who has two dead rats in his mouth, their tails in his teeth;

they swing from him like a strange beard.

He giggles and skulks away.

The OIL MAN gives her a boost up and then climbs aboard the rig.

As the truck pulls away, we see RALPH through the windshield,

standing at the edge of the road.  He is angry and upset now.

He pats his rats.

The OIL MAN shifts, looks over and smiles.  His two front teeth

are missing on top.

He nods.

He turns on the radio in the cab and we hear the DJ again.

The oil truck thunders along the road.

The oil truck has stopped.  ANNIE stands alongside the driver's

side.

ANNIE smiles.

He nods and shakes his head with the sense of what might have

been if he were thirty years younger.  He puts it in gear and

roars off.

ANNIE looks around and sees an old gas station.  It is closed.

There's a sign which reads:  "No Gas 'Til Sat."  A mangey dog

sits on the stoop watching ANNIE.

ANNIE kneels down and calls the dog.  The dog comes.  ANNIE

pets him and then heads off up the road.

The dog watches her go.

ANNIE is beginning to get worried about the time.  It's hot and

she's late.

She looks up.

From her POV a Jeep barrels along the road towards us.

ANNIE puts out her numb.

From the DRIVER'S POV, we see ANNIE waiting for a lift.  The

DRIVER, unseen, shifts down until ANNIE is alongside.  The

Jeep, an uncovered model, stops.  ANNIE smiles a big delicious

smile at us as we sit in the DRIVER's seat.

Apparently the DRIVER nods, because ANNIE beams at us.  She

tosses her pack in the back and hops aboard.  The DRIVER

accelerates.

The Jeep roars along the road.  The sun and shadows keep us

from seeing the DRIVER.

Still in the DRIVER's POV, the CAMERA watches as ANNIE looks

around, admires the woods, the Jeep, the day.  Things are going

her way.

The forest outside the speeding Jeep is deeper and signs of

civilization have all but disappeared.  ANNIE still turns and

looks at the CAMERA when she speaks to the DRIVER.

A look of surprise passes ANNIE's young face.

In the FG the sign for Camp Crystal Lake.  In the BG, the Jeep

roars off into the distance.

The Jeep's speed increases.

ANNIE grabs for the ignition key, but the DRIVER's hand darts

out and slaps ANNIE away.  We see that this hand is missing its

little finger!

Panicked, without any other recourse, ANNIE looks about her and

then leaps from the moving Jeep, aiming for the relatively soft

underbrush alongside the narrow road.

ANNIE lands, rolls, is upended, scratched by brambles, and

flips.  She scrambles to her feet and starts running towards

the camp.

The Jeep stops, turns quickly, heads back for her.

From the DRIVER's POV we see ANNIE run, looking back in fear.

ANNIE's feet pound the hard-packed dirt.  She looks over her

shoulder to see the Jeep.  The sun flares on the Jeep's

windshield, keeping us from being able to see any details of

the DRIVER.

In a final desperate move, ANNIE drives into the underbrush to

escape.

The Jeep skids to a stop.

The CAMERA becomes the DRIVER and chases into the thicket.

Branches and briars snap back at us.  Just ahead, the terror-

stuck ANNIE stumbles and falls.  She screams as a knife flashes

past her in a blur.

When the knife has passed, all we can see is a look of surprise

on ANNIE's face.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK.  Her throat has been cut.  She collapses

out of FRAME.

A bird soars across the sky above.

The TRACK is SILENT.

A gaily decorated camper-van travels along the highway.  We

hear rock 'n roll OVER coming from a car radio as this much-in-

need-of-repair vehicle passes a slower car.

In the camper van are three young people.  They are full of

fun, fresh and expectant as they head towards Crystal Lake.

They are instantly likeable.

At the wheel is NED, a short 22-year-old whose well-developed

upper body is a tribute to his weight-lifting.  He is nice-

looking, a joker who is always trying to get some attraction.

He is funny and alert.

Next to him is JACK, an athlete whose clean-cut look is as

American as popcorn.  He is quieter, two years younger and not

as smart as NED.  He has to think things through.

MARCIE is JACK's girlfriend.  She is leaning over the front

passenger seat so she can messenger JACK's shoulders.

She is a funny girl, pretty, and always looking for fun.  She

enjoys every minute of every day.  She hasn't been touched by

tragedy.

MARCIE finds a sore spot on JACK's back.

MARCIE hits NED on the arms, playfully.

JACK reaches into the glove compartment and comes out with a

joint.

She takes the lighted joint and tokes.

The van turns past the sign that reads:

MARCIE is wide-eyed, looking at the lush surroundings.

The CAMERA SEES what NED saw.  The buildings are run down at

the heels.  It is the same camp we saw in the early scenes, but

time has torn the place badly.

The van passes the CAMERA and we see the three new ARRIVALS

looking out the window.

This is the main building.  It is the building where Barry and

Claudette met.  Outside is a flagpole, a small parking area, a

large overhanging tree.

In the BG we can see part of the lake.

In the FG there is a Jeep.

An axe flashes through the FRAME and hacks apart the halves of

a huge tree stump.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal a middle-aged man in cut-offs,

a bare chest, hiking boots and beat-up cowboy hat.  This is

STEVE CHRISTY.  He is strong, charming, and engaging.  He is

animated, always in motion, impatient with how long it takes to

do things.

In the BG the van comes to a stop.  No sooner has JACK hopped

down, than STEVE is beckoning him over.

JACK smiles and comes quickly.

NED steps down from the van and now we can see that he has had

polio when he was a kid.  His upper body is strong, but his

legs are slightly deformed.  He and MARCIE hustle over to the

big stump.

ALICE comes into the MS.  She is carrying a shovel and a bucket

and has obviously been working for a couple of hours.

They exchange "hellos" as they bend to the work.

STEVE sets off.

As soon as he's gone, NED turns to ALICE.

ALICE shrugs.

The CAMERA looks down a long line of canoes, each with its hull

up.  A brush slaps into view.  BILL is sweating while finishing

a coat of paint on the last canoe.

BILL is a thin, ascetic-looking college sophomore.  He rubs his

long thin rose with the back of his wrist as he hears someone

call his name OS.  He turns to see ALICE at the bottom of the

trail.

ALICE nods slowly.

She turns away.

BILL puts his brush in a coffee can of turps.

ALICE look at him, then turns again.

STEVE and NED are rehanging a door.  Next to them is BRENDA, a

dark Eurasian girl who is trying to do a good job of painting

the wall.  On the other side MARCIE is scraping some flaking

paint.

NED levers the door higher at the top.

STEVE uses a long ratchet screwdriver.

NED swings the door on its hinges.

BRENDA turns and nods.

They exit with the tool box.  MARCIE stops and turns to BRENDA,

who looks upward and blows the hair from her forehead.

STEVE, ALICE, BRENDA, MARCIE, NED, JACK and BILL are lugging a

swimming float down to the water's edge.  STEVE supervises as

he carries the thing, which is quite heavy.  They ad-lid as

appropriate.  ("There goes my hernia." "Are you sure you're

lifting?" "Not so fast." "I'm walking backward.")

They drop the things carefully.

They get behind it and shove it into the water.  NED hops

aboard for the ride, flipping into a handstand.

The screen has gone completely black.  The door to the shed is

whipped open quickly, letting in the full brightness of the

sun.  There is a shape.

The CAMERA IRISES DOWN so that we can see that JACK has come in

on an errand.

As JACK looks around, we can take the time to see that there

are a half-dozen lantern, a few cans of lantern fuel, a couple

of hibachis, some entrenching tools packs, portable ice chests,

etc.  Up on the long side wall are a half-dozen hunting knives

in sheathes, also hanging neatly.

Suddenly a hand comes into FRAME and touches JACK on the

shoulder as he is preoccupied with his task.  JACK turns with

a start.  He looks into the CAMERA.

REVERSE POV to see MARCIE standing in the doorway.

She points to the row of hatchets and knives.

MARCIE looks behind some piled up equipment.  She pulls out two

rings.

She kisses him on the cheek and gives him a playful goose.

They exit together.

STEVE CHRISTY comes upon ALICE, who is renailing floorboards on

the porch of the Arts & Crafts cabin.  On the railing is a

sketch pad which Steve thumbs through.

INSERT:  ALICE'S SKETCH.  It is a moody pierce, a sense of

foreboding dominates it.  Otherwise, it is the camp's central

compound, featuring the tree that forms the central focus.

ALICE misses a nail and hits her thumb.  She reacts good-

naturedly and keeps on working.

STEVE bends down next to ALICE.

She shakes her head.

He puts out a hand and runs the back of it across her cheek.

She looks up.  She nods.

He stands up.

She watches him cross out of FRAME.

STEVE is at the wheel of his Jeep.  The COUNSELLORS are

standing within earshot, huddled around the Jeep.

He wheels the car around and out the driveway.  The others

stand looking before NED breaks the silence.

They are all getting back to work.

As they laugh, the CAMERA HOLDS on ALICE.

BRENDA has her sleeves rolled up and is doing her job.  She

enjoys having the responsibility for the whole safe operation of

this area.  She likes to think of herself as more sophisticated

than she is--or have others think her more sophisticated.

BRENDA rolls a straw target out from under the lean-to shelter

and heads for a tripod in the middle distance.  There are

already two such targets out, a product of her efforts so far.

The targets are heavy.  This isn't an easy one-person job.

The CAMERA CLOSES IN tighter and tighter on her as she gets

closer to setting up the target.

In MCU, she lifts a target up.  Her head is very close to the

face of the target.  She gets it up, lets the tripod take the

weight, and then, just as she lifts her weight back, an arrow

streaks into the center of the gold, missing her head by

eighteen inches.

BRENDA whips around.

WE SEE WHAT SHE SEES:  a very cocky NED, standing by the lean-

to with a bow in his hands and three more arrows knocked

simultaneously.  He has a feather stuck in his hair.

She grabs the arrow and storms at him.

She snaps the arrow in half.

BRENDA still thinks he's a jerk, but he's so outrageous there's

little she can do.  She laughs.

BRENDA snatches the bow from him, shakes her head and puts the

bow down next to a collection of wicked-looking arrows.

This is a fairly large single room.  The walls are bare and

uninsulated.  There are a few easels, but for the most part,

the room is dominated by long tables and rough-hewn benches.

The light seeps through the streaked windows, making the grey

wood interior appear silver-colored.  ALICE, her hair in a

bandana, has just finished sweeping up.

The CAMERA picks up on ALICE's sketch of the central camp area

on one easel.  On a second easel she has done the preliminary

sketch of the lake itself.  It is also a moody picture.

ALICE cocks her head to look at the sketches, shivers just a

little, then goes on to her next task.  There is a row of newly-

arrived cardboard boxes.  She opens the first in CU with a

matte knife.  She take out the invoice and checks it against

the first items:  gimp, the plastic string from which all the

campers will make lanyards.

We watch through one of the dusty panes, seeing the charcoal

sketch in the FG, ALICE in the BG checking her materials

against her invoice.

ALICE snaps around, sensing that she is being watched.  In CU

her frightened face looks at the sun-drenched dusty pane.  Her

face relaxes until BANG!  The sound of a door slamming echoes

through the room.

The CAMERA ZOOMS BACK from her face to see someone standing in

the doorway.

It is BILL.

ALICE smiles, then turns back to her job of taking inventory.

BILL watches her.

She starts to take a box down from a high shelf.  She doesn't

realize that there is something on top of the box.

ALICE lugs down the box and suddenly a bunch of leather-working

tools clatters down, shattering the silence.  ALICE fends off

the flying implements and BILL rushes to her side.

She nods.

They stoop down to pick up the fallen tools from the floor.

BILL looks at her while they work.

ALICE looks at BILL and smiles.  This really is a very nice, if

naive, young man.

As ALICE nods, she is interrupted by a shrill scream outside.

MARCIE is the source of the scream.  She runs towards the

CAMERA, dressed in cut-offs and a floral halter.  Her feet are

bare.  When she get closer, we see that she is being chased by

JACK and NED who have found two giant green bullfrogs.  The

screams were not serious and MARCIE is doing some of it for

effect.  BRENDA brings up the rear.  They are all dressed more

or less for a frolic in the lake.

BILL and ALICE stand in front of the Arts & Crafts cabin.  BILL

is smiling, ALICE is a little bit amused.

A LONG WIDE SHOT reveals the cool, clear lake during the lull

of a hot afternoon.

At the edge of the lake, in the shallows, are the members of

the group:  MARCIE, JACK, NED, BRENDA, BILL and ALICE.  They

are sitting or paddling or diving off the float.  There is no

real attempt to exert too much energy.

Gradually we become aware that this LONG WIDE SHOT is someone's

POV.  The CAMERA moves from its stable position, now hand-held,

on a trajectory around the side of the lake, out of sight.

Branches, brush, and twigs are butted through.  Occasionally,

we can see part of the PROWLER's arm fending off the underbrush.

The group sits or lies in the cool water, more or less focused

on NED, who is acting as moderator.

NED goes to JACK.

They laugh.

The PROWLER looks in LONG SHOT down at the lake and we can just

make out the COUNSELLORS.

The CAMERA PANS and we move toward cabins.

ALICE is treading water, talking with BRENDA, as NED comes up

out of nowhere.

NED surfaces between them.  He looks with googly eyes at ALICE.

ALICE laughs.

NED does a porpoise drive and disappears.

BRENDA is not laughing.  She is looking off towards the cabin

area.

ALICE sees her and look where she looks.

She smiles.

The CAMERA, shooting from the PROWLER's POV, moves to a place

alongside Alice's cabin.  There is underbrush about two feet

tall and all around that area.  The PROWLER stops, leans down

and reaches into FRAME with a gloved hand.

The gloved hand reaches into the underbrush for the tip of a

burlap bag which has been secreted there.  The hand lifts the

bag, which has something in it that moves.

The CAMERA MOVES around to the side of the cabin right below

the window.  The window is open, making entry quite simple.

The PROWLER's gloved hands untie the neck of the bag, reach in

and haul out quickly a medium-sized snake.  One hand has the

animal firmly behind the jaws.  The hand takes the snake and

puts it through the open window, leaving it on the clean white

coverlet.  It slithers across the bed.

The PROWLER's hand closes the window.

The CAMERA MOVES towards one of the sheds.

BILL and ALICE are lying on the shore on their towels, watching

the OTHERS in the water and grabbing some afternoon sun.  ALICE

is on her stomach, tracing angular designs in the sand.  BILL

is on his back, listening.

BILL turns over so he can look at her better.

Various feet enter the FRAME.  BILL and ALICE look up to see

JACK with his arm around MARCIE, NED toweling his head, and

BRENDA putting on her blue workshirt.

BILL gets up.

ALICE smiles at the reference.

They head off.  ALICE turns over to tan her front.

A machete rips through some vines.  Again it hacks at the brush.

PULLS BACK to reveal BILL clearing away the years of vine

growth which have choked off a path.  He wipes the perspiration

from his eyes and continues along.

Set up behind the cabin is a make-shift exercise area.  There

are chinning bars--pipeslashed between two trees--and there's

an aging set of parallel bars.  There is even a set of weights

made from tin cans, pipes and assorted amount of cement.

ECU of NEDS's face in a distorted, twisted expression.  He

explodes his breath.

We PULL BACK to see BRENDA watching NED work out on the uneven

parallel bars.  He is really very good and there is no doubt

about his strength.

As NED moves off the apparatus, BRENDA comes in and does a neat

little turn which is dazzling.  NED does a take.

The sun has dropped lower on the horizon.

The CAMERA looks down on ALICE as she sleeps peacefully in the

late sun.  A shadow passes across her face, and she awakes with

a start.

CUT BACK to see BILL standing over her with a machete.

ALICE gets up.

They walk away from the shore.

ALICE is walking quicker than BILL.  We realize we have seen

this cabin before--when the snake was placed in it.

BILL laughs at her imitation.

She turns to go up the steps to her front door.

She stops and look down at him.  He is serious and he cares.

ALICE appreciates what's she's just heard.  She knows that it

wasn't easy for BILL to say.

They share a short silent moment.

BILL smiles and turns and jogs off, still carrying his long

blade.

ALICE watches him go.  She shrugs.  This might be a good place

to stay.  She turns and goes into her cabin.

In the FG is the camp bed with its white coverlet.  The snake

is nowhere in sight--which means it could be anywhere.

ALICE is humming to herself and is happier now than she has

been since we met her.

The room is small.  There is the metal-frame cot, an old wooden

dresser with a cloudy mirror on top.  The walls are a light

blue, freshly painted.  The wall on the inside does not go all

the way to the ceiling so that she can monitor what's going on

in the campers' section of the cabin on the other side.

ALICE looks at herself in the old cloudy mirror and likes what

she sees.  She pushes her hair so that she looks a little

sexier.  She smiles at herself.

She reaches out in CU.  Open a drawer.  Takes out a towel.

ALICE turns and goes to her footlocker.  Bends down and opens

it up.  Takes out a terrycloth robe.

She closes the footlocker, stands up and heads out the door.

ALICE heads from her cabin to the showers.

ALICE walks into her room wearing her bathrobe, her hair in a

towel-turban.  She flicks off her shower clogs, and looks for

her hairbrush.  She takes her towel off and lets her tangled

hair fall down.

She hums.  Opens her top drawer.  Nothing there.

Opens the next drawer.  Nothing there.

Opens the next drawer.  Nothing there.

ALICE opens the fourth drawer and the snake strikes!  It flails

at her right wrist, a wrist which we have established earlier

as having a Navajo bracelet on it.  The snake strikes the

bracelet, hangs on as ALICE tries to shake it free.  The snake

falls to the floor and recoils for another attack.

There is no way that ALICE can get past the snake to run away.

Her scream is loud.

BILL, returning from his last half hour of trail-blazing, hears

ALICE.

BILL doesn't hesitate.  Carrying his machete, he runs to

ALICE's cabin.

MARCIE and JACK follow in the BG.

ALICE is backed against the wall.  The snake could strike and

get her.

BILL runs into the room, still carrying his machete.  He looks

at ALICE.

BILL sees it.  He freezes, then takes a step forward.

Carefully, he winds up and smashes down with the edge of the

machete, cutting the snake into two pieces.  Blood spurts onto

the floor.

MARCIE and JACK enter.  JACK carries a shovel as a weapon.

MARCIE stops when she sees the embrace, but then looks further

to see the blood and guts.

JACK nods and exits.

JACK return and tosses a roll to MARCIE.

ALICE nods.

BILL gives her an extra hug.  Then steps back awkwardly,

stepping on MARCIE's big toe.

JACK nods.  He picks up his shovel and we see in CU as he gets

underneath the wide-fanged snake.

MARCIE begins to clean the blood off the floor with the paper

toweling.

Looking across the lake, we can see the camp, nestled in among

the late afternoon rays of the sun.  We can hear the sounds of

the nocturnal animals beginning to rise and hunt.

The kitchen and the main meeting room are really one in the

same room, cut off by a partition.  The kitchen has a couple of

sinks, a heavy old stove, long shelves, a pantry/larder, and

some windows which look out on the rear.

BRENDA is making a salad for herself.  She is a vegetarian.

MARCIE is making a guacamole dip.

In the big room there is a fireplace and a ping pong table.

JACK and BILL are playing.

ALICE walks into the kitchen.  She has washed her face after

getting her act together.  She stands in the doorway to the

kitchen.

ALICE smiles.  Nods.

ALICE goes to the sink and begins to work her way through the

dirty dish pan.

NED comes flying through the door dressed in various bits and

pieces of old Indian costumery.  He does a bad dance.

JACK and BILL quit their game and come to the doorway.

He takes a letter out of his breechclout.  He pretends to read,

when really we can see that the paper is blank.

ALICE leans against the sink and laughs.  She is a very pretty

girl, younger than she first appeared.

JACK and BILL laugh.

NED takes off his headdress.

ALICE looks up from her dishes and cocks her head to the side.

Does she sees something?

The CAMERA PANS SLOWLY to look over her shoulder.

The window pane is dirty and it's a bit difficult to see, but

there is something standing there out by a cabin.  But it

stands, doesn't move... Is it a building?

CUT AWAY to see ALICE using her dishcloth to clear the glass.

When we CUT BACK, the shape is gone.

REACTION SHOT:  ALICE.  Curious.  A cold chill...

ALICE looks around at the others who are still adlibbing about

food.

ALICE looks up.  Pulls the light cord in the middle of the room.

The bulb does not light.

ALICE pulls it again.

JACK turns to BILL.

JACK steps in and, in CU, we see there is a puddle where he is

standing.  The puddle is somehow significant.

BILL leans over JACK's shoulder to see what he's doing.

The CAMERA watches JACK's actions tightly.  In a REVERSE POV we

see JACK's tongue come out the side of his mouth as he

concentrates.  He bites down on it.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  as JACK pulls the starter cord.  The engine

roars into action.

CU as JACK's hand reaches in and touches a heavy-duty metal

switch.  A spark arcs and we PULL BACK to see JACK with a

perfect connection running through his body.  There is a

sparking sound, the little light in the shed blinks, JACK

screams, the generator chugs roughly.  Hundreds of volts are

streaking through JACK's body and grounded through his wet

shoes.

BILL reacts quickly:  knowing better than to touch him and

continue the connection, he takes a half-step backwards, aims

at an oblique angle and executes a perfect Bruce Lee-type drop-

kick on his friend, severing the contact.

JACK stumbles out of the shack and the light goes dead.  The

machine stops.

JACK lands, almost unconscious.  BILL kneels into FRAME and

cheeks JACK's vital sign:  his eyes, his carotid pulse, his

breathing.

JACK shakes his head.

JACK lies back down.  Covers his eyes with his arm.

JACKS looks up and smiles.  BILL give him a hand and the groggy

athlete gets to his feet.

Satisfied that JACK won't fall down, BILL goes to the shed and

looks in.

We can look in over BILL's shoulder and see a smoke-scarred

switch and a now-silent generator.

JACK looks in, too.

BILL leans down and sees a smokey-colored wire that touches

another wire.

He starts to wind it round a set-screw in CU.

JACKS walks away.

The door opens at us, letting in the limited light.  JACK comes

in and goes to pick up a fluorescent lamp.  He flicks it on.

As he bends down to pick up two Coleman lanterns, the CAMERA

slowly moves toward the wall where once we saw all the hatchets

and knives.  They are all missing.

JACK takes his booty and exits.

The light is gone and we are alone in the dark.

ECU of the lightbulb over the kitchen area.  It flickers on as

we hear in the BG the sound of the generator start up.  The

bulb glows, goes down, glows cheerily.

JACK comes in with his lanterns followed by BILL.

ALICE listens as she washes the dishes.  It looks as if things

will be okay.

MARCIE is finishing up making her green California dip.

Suddenly ALICE cries out.  Everybody whips around to see.

ALICE holds up a piece of broken glass--the bottom half of a

bottle.  She has cut her finger.  It is not a serious cut, but

the blood is visible.

BILL reaches into a cupboard and pulls out a BandAid.

BILL comes up to ALICE.

That said, the OTHERS go back to what they were doing.

BILL and ALICE are featured even though we can hear the others.

BILL takes great care and puts the BandAid on ALICE's finger.

They share this moment with soft smiles as the trivia contest

continues.

NEDDY is hovering over a bowl of California dip which MARCIE

has just made.  He dips a chip as soon as she steps back.

Suddenly NED's face goes red.  His eyes bulge out.  He grabs

his throat and gags.  Coughs, can't clear it.

NED points to the dip and slumps down on the floor where he

writhes about.

As BILL and JACK flip him over to try to give him the Heimlich,

NED stops his act and grins from ear to ear.  It's a big finish:

REACTION SHOTS: as it sinks in that NED has been putting them on.

BILL stands up, angry, but willing to keep his mouth shut.

NED tries to laugh it off.  They shake their heads.  MARCIE

walks away.  JACK looks at BILL.

NED turns and heads for the door.  ALICE comes up next to him.

The OTHERS are out of earshot now.  BILL and JACK play a little

ping-pong.  NED is a little embarrassed by his play-acting

stunt.

NED relaxes.  Nods.  He knows what she means.  He turns to look

at the others.

ALICE nods.

The CAMERA stays on ALICE's face as NED exits.  In the BG,

MARCIE speaks.

We watch NED come away from the main cabin and walk moodily

toward his cabin.

The CAMERA stays with the troubled child as he stops, leans

down, picks up a pebble and skips it off into the brush.  It

cuts through.  He flips a few stones in his hand.

NED looks off.  Sees something.

WE SEE WHAT HE SEES:  a shape--a human shape--standing by a

cabin.

NED walks towards it.

ALICE is just drying her hands.  She stands next to a giant

stack of clean dishes and pots.

BRENDA is reading a magazine while picking at some cauliflower

and cucumber slices.

BILL and JACK saunter in.

They laugh.

The OTHERS all go "Ooooooooh."

MARCIE puts an arm through JACK's arm and they exit.

The OTHERS laugh.

JACK and MARCIE walk across the pint needles towards the lake.

There is the low rumble of thunder preceeded by a faint glow on

the horizon.

JACK and MARCIE walk along the shore to the lake.  They have

turned on the flashlights which they carry with them.

They kiss.  MARCIE pulls back.

The moon is victim of a blank cloud which cuts off the light.

JACK shines the flashlight so that we can see her face in eerie

shadows.  She flashes hers at him.

A loud crack of heat lightning slices the sky apart.  MARCIE is

startled and reaches out for her lover.

They look at one another in the two lights.  They grin.  Rain

drops begin to fall on their faces and on the lake behind them.

JACK turns and jogs toward the nearest cabin.  MARCIE is only

a half step behind, laughing.

FROM A DISTANT ANGLE we watch them run.  There is no theme,

just the rumble of thunder...

The door bursts open, a flashlight pierces the shadows, and

JACK and MARCIE rush in and plop on the bottom bunk of the

nearest bed.

He reaches down and put his flashlight on its end so it points

straight up and gives them some light to see by.

They go into a long passionate kiss which is broken by MARCIE's

hand coming up from behind JACK and tugging his t-shirt up

towards his head.  He leans back and takes it off, and tosses

it at the CAMERA.

The rain has gathered in intensity.  ALICE comes up to the

front door and looks out.  BILL comes up behind her.

ALICE laughs.

She turned back into the cabin.

TIGHT on JACK and MARCIE as they make love under a camp

blanket.  Their breathing and noises are heard just above the

sounds of the rain outside.

The CAMERA becomes interested in a droplet which appear to have

leaked from the ceiling, hit the vertical member of the bed and

dribbled down.  As the bed shakes with its love-making, the

CAMERA PANS up the bunk's strut to trace the droplet's course.

As the CAMERA PANS UPWARD, it pulls back slightly and we see

NED lying in the upper bunk.  In a flash of lightning we

realize he is dead:  his throat has been slashed.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  JACK and MARCIE lie completely still beneath

their blanket.  The CAMERA PANS along their quiet bodies.

MARCIE's face is contented.  JACK is ready to doze off.

She rolls over and grabs her underpants and t-shirt.  While

still on the bottom bunk, she puts herself into her limited

clothing.  JACK gives her room.

She grabs a flashlight, scoots to the door and is gone.

JACK lies back and puts his hands under his hand.

MARCIE runs across the now-wet central area towards the

bathroom facility.  She tries to skip between the raindrops,

but she knows she'll get a drenching.

JACK rolls to his side, picks up a small hand-rolled cigarette

and lights it.  He inhales deeply, rolls on his back.

Something overhead catches his eye.

Across the way from the row of toilet stalls is a row of shower

stalls, and further down is a row of several sinks and mirrors.

We hear the toilet flush.

We CUT INSIDE the toilet booth as MARCIE stands reading the

graffiti to herself.  We can only see her from the chest up.

There is a noise outside the stall.

She hears no response and assumes that her imagination is

playing tricks with her.  MARCIE picks up the flashlight and

exits the stall.

flashlight down and turns on the water faucet.  There is

no water.

PROWLER'S POV:  of MARCIE.

From the end of the row of showers, we watch MARCIE bend under

the sink and turn on one of the spigots.  Water rushes into the

sink.

turns off the water.  Again she hears a noise.  She looks

to the row of showers and smiles.

The screen door to the shower room is swinging open and shut.

MARCIE looks over, smiles.  She thinks someone is trying to

scare her.

There is a dripping sound.  MARCIE stops at the first shower,

hesitates.

Throws back the first curtain.  There is no one there.  She

reaches in and makes sure the spigot is really off.

She goes to the second shower, looks over her shoulder to the

empty toilet.  Then reaches in to the shower curtain.

She throws back the curtain.  Again no one is there.

She breathes a sigh of disappointment.

In CU she turns back toward the sink area when suddenly the

TRACK explodes with a MUSICAL STINGER.  It happens in a flash.

A shape lunges from the toilet booth across from the first

shower.  A hatchet glints.  MARCIE screams.  The hatchet

strikes.  The flashlight clatters to the floor.

The sound of a cash register ringing up a sale hangs over an

establishing shot of the diner.  Through the window, which are

being pelted with rain, we can see a WAITRESS and some CUSTOMERS

seated on stools at the counter.

The WAITRESS is different from the morning woman, slightly

older, but still attractive.  She says good night to her

CUSTOMER, who finishes paying his bill and crosses down the

counter.  Seated there is STEVE CHRISTY, finishing his cup of

coffee.  The waitress, SANDY, picks up his empty pie plate and

tosses it in a pan of other dirty dishes.

SANDY likes STEVE and enjoys flirting with him.

STEVE pays up and walks to the cash register.

She rings up the money.  Gives him his change.  He hands her a

tip.

She smiles and is really kind of pretty underneath all that

extra makeup.

STEVE smiles and leaves.  She watches, then counts her changes

and sticks it her pocket with the rest of her tips for the day.

The rain continues as STEVE exits the diner, gets in his Jeep

and starts it up.  He roars off through a big puddle, splashing

water towards the CAMERA.  The Jeep pulls a small equipment

trailer.

The Jeep plows through the rain, leaving the town lights

behind.  A sign off to the side reads:

PROWLER'S POV:  From outside the cabin, we can see some

activity in the big meeting room.  The CAMERA moves slightly

from left to right as the shot is established.  Then an unseen

hand releases a branch which partially blocks the shot.

ALICE enters from the kitchen, carrying two cups of coffee.

She hands one to BRENDA, who is curled up on the couch in front

of the fire.  BILL stands to the left of the hearth, picks up

a couple of pieces of dry woods and puts them on to burn.

BRENDA smiles.

They laugh.

The rain is very heavy.  Steve's Jeep drives past the CAMERA.

The tires squish in the muddy roadway.

Lighted by dash panel, STEVE tries to concentrate on seeing the

road.  He leans forward, rubs a cloth on the windshield to get

rid of the condensation.

From his POV we watch the windshield wipers struggle to stay

ahead of the rain.  Beyond them the headlights make a slight

dent in the night.

In the BG we hear a country station on the radio, but it is

bringing in more static than music, owing to the electrical

storm.

STEVE's hand reaches in and shuts off the radio.

ALICE has finished her coffee.  BILL enters, shakes the rain

off his poncho and stamps his feet.

BRENDA gets up.

BRENDA takes her lantern, and, throwing the slicker over her

head like a portable tent, she races off into the night.

ALICE watches her go.  A glimmer of lightning outlines her as

she heads off.

BILL walks back into the big room, followed by ALICE.

She walks with him as he carries the tray of empty coffee cups

into the kitchen.

The door opens and BRENDA comes in with her lantern and

slicker.  Her actions are direct and business-like.

BRENDA goes first to the row of sinks and looked at herself in

the mirror, holding up a propane Coleman lantern like an

examination lamp.  She takes out a toothbrush and some other

toilet articles.

She flips on both faucets and nothing comes out.  She put her

lantern down on the floor and turns on the water valves.  She

stands up, and washes her hands and face.

She turns off the faucets and now we hear the dripping sound

that Marcie had heard.  BRENDA looks off at the shower stalls,

shrugs, picks up her lantern and makes her exit.

STEVE's Jeep coughs, sputters, stalls.  OVER we can hear him

trying to re-start his dead engine.  R-r-r-r...

STEVE angrily steps on the gas again and hits the starter.

R-r-r-r-rrr... nothing...

He looks up to see headlights coming at him in his rear view

mirror.

STEVE, wearing a yellow slicker, gets out of the Jeep to try to

flag down the oncoming car.

STEVE smiles to see that the oncoming car is the local police

car, driven by a middle-aged cop named TIERNEY.  TIERNEY has

the window down already.

STEVE is around the car and hopping in almost before TIERNEY

can answer.

He puts the car in gear and roars into the night.

Under a single hanging lightbulb, BRENDA finishes writing at a

small table.

The weather howls outside.  There's a tapping sound.  BRENDA

looks up.  Listens, yawns, then gets up and starts to take off

her clothes.

Through her window we can see BRENDA changing into her soft

yellow pajamas.

The tapping returns.

The SOUND is apparently coming from the front of the cabin;

perhaps she can fix it without getting too wet.

BRENDA grabs her slicker and heads out.

The CAMERA FOLLOWS BRENDA through the darkened cabin to the

front door.

There is a small roof overhang like a porch, affording some

protection from the wind and wet.

ANOTHER ANGLE, CLOSER:  as BRENDA hears the tapping sound

closer by.  She looks and sees.

WE SEE WHAT SHE SEES:  somebody has ties a kitchen knife to a

string and left it dangling from the eaves.  The wind blows,

making the knife tap against the building.

She grabs the knife, breaking the string.

Angry, BRENDA turns and goes back inside the cabin.

BRENDA comes in shaking off her slicker, carrying the knife.

The single bulb goes out.

BRENDA crosses to the table, puts down her knife and strikes a

match.  She fires up the propane lantern.

She moves the lamp and gets ready to climb into her bed.  She

reaches down and takes the coverlet and tugs it clear,

revealing something that has been left there.

REACTION SHOT:  Fear spreads across her face.

REVERSE POV:  WE SEE WHAT SHE SEES:  A camp hatchet lies across

her pillow.  The shiny blade is marked with blood.

BRENDA turns and runs from her room.

BRENDA runs through the rain, her flimsy pajamas drenched.  Her

bare feet slip in the mud.  She heads for a small rise that

leads to the softball field.

WIDE SHOT of BRENDA running across the softball diamond.

CLOSE UP:  a hand reaches in and slams on a circuit breaker.

CLOSE UP:  Two large spot lights on a telephone pole light up.

The softball field is now lit.  BRENDA is confused.  She looks

off behind the backstop.  Then to center field.  Confused, she

runs out of the light into the darkness and underbrush behind

third base.  The CAMERA slowly zooms in on the darkness where

BRENDA exited.  We hold on that spot for several seconds.

Finally the silence is broken by a terrified scream.  Then

another.

ALICE is at one of the windows.

We are looking over at her shoulder.  The distant glimmer

suddenly goes dark.  BILL joins her and looks.

BILL heads for the door.

ALICE turns.  BILL is halfway out the door.

BILL shrugs.

The rain continues as they drive along.

The police radio, which has been on "squelch," comes on.

TIERNEY takes the mike.

TIERNEY has jammed on his brakes and swung the car around.

TIERNEY bangs the mike down on the holder.  He stops the car.

STEVE gets out quickly.

STEVE turns as the cop's car door slams.  TIERNEY peels out on

the wet road.

CU as STEVE watches the lights grow dim in the distance.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  as STEVE turns and jogs the other way.  Low

thunder rolls in the distance.

BILL and ALICE have made their way to BRENDA's cabin.  From the

outside they can see the Coleman lantern burning on the table

within.

There is no response.  The CAMERA stays in a MCU of ALICE as

she and BILL cross up the stairs and into the cabin.

The SHOT continues on ALICE as she looks about the empty cabin.

Finally she stops, looking down.  The CAMERA continues to hold

on her face.

BILL crosses over to ALICE.  They are both looking down, past

the CAMERA LENS.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  WE SEE WHAT THEY SEE:  the bloody hatchet left

on Brenda's pillow.

ANGLE on BILL and ALICE:  (as before).  Their faces are serious.

The rain slants down as BILL and ALICE make their way towards

Jack's cabin.  They go to the door.  BILL knocks.

BILL opens the door to the cabin.

The door opens at us.  We see the silhouetted figures of BILL

and ALICE.  BILL flips on the light switch.

The cabin is empty.  Jack's backpack lies on the bed, the

contents neatly laid out.

It is dark inside.  The door slams open at us as BILL and ALICE

make their way inside.

BILL walks slowly towards the row of toilets and showers.

BILL, who was just about to open one of the toilet stalls, nods

and turns back to ALICE.

They exit.  There is a beat... and then a slickered shape

passes between us and the night sky light which comes through

the windows.  The shape is dragging something.

ALICE and BILL are on the porch of one of the cabins.  To the

left of the door is a small sign that reads:  "Office."  BILL

tries the door, but cannot open it.

ALICE ignores the question, bends down beside the cabin and

comes up with a short 2x4.  She crosses to the door and smashes

through one of the window panes.  She puts her arm through the

broken glass, unlocks the door and enters.  BILL follows.

The CAMERA continues to watch them from outside the cabin.

They turn on a light and cross to a phone on Steve Christy's

desk.  BILL picks up the receiver, listens, clicks the switch

on the desk set several times.

They fumble through the desk to find some change.  BILL finds

some in the postage drawer.  He then crosses over to a pay

phone mounted on the wall.  The CAMERA moves to the cornice of

the building where the phone line exits.  It follows the link

up the side of the cabin to the junction where the power and

phone lines come in from the pole.  Here we see a dangling

phone cable which has been recently cut.

OVER, we hear the sound of a quarter dropping in the dead

telephone.

BILL and ALICE comes out into the rain, heading for the camper

van.  They hop in.

BILL slides behind the wheel.  The keys are in the ignition.

ALICE hops in on the passenger side.

BILL turns over the engine.  It grinds away but does not catch.

From an ANGLE behind the outside mirror, we hear the engine

fail to catch.  We look in the mirror and see someone standing

in the distance, watching.

BILL gets out of the driver's side.  Slams the door.  The

CAMERA TRUCKS with him as he opens the door to the engine.

ALICE joins him as he shines his light on the engine.

He tries a few more times.

He goes to her and cradles her face in his hands.

ALICE nods.

In the FG we see a camp sign.  In the BG we see a figure

running towards us.

The figure reaches our vantage point and is revealed as STEVE

CHRISTY.  Just as he's about to make the turn into the

driveway, he looks up and smiles.  He stops and catches his

breath as the other person catches him in the light of a

flashlight.

He shields his eyes from the light.

From across the lake, the lights from the camp twinkle through

the rain drops.

The CAMERA as PROWLER moves to the shed.  The noise of the

generator grows louder as the door is opened.

BILL sits on the chair, a rifle across his lap.  In the BG,

ALICE sits on the couch, dozing.  On the coffee table in front

of her is a large machete.

BILL's eyes are closing.  He jerks himself awake, then starts

to doze again.

The bulb overhead grows yellow, orange, and then goes out.

BILL snaps awake.  He grabs a flashlight by his feet and flicks

it on.

He goes to the ping-pong table where he has placed some

lanterns.  He fires up a Coleman and places it on the pong

table.

BILL checks on ALICE, makes sure she's asleep, then exits,

carrying his rifle and a battery-operated fluorescent lamp.

HOLD on ALICE's peaceful face as she slumbers.

The rain has lessened a bit.  BILL approaches the shed with his

fluorescent lamp and rifle.  He has the rifle at the ready.

CU on his hand on the door handle.  He pulls it open.

The generator stands there quietly.  BILL comes into view,

spraying the interior with lamplight.

In the FG a broken sparkplug which BILL does not see immediately.

It has been smashed by the blow of a hammer.

BILL goes to the gas tank and unscrews the top.  He looks

in--there is enough gas.  He puts the cap back on.

Then his eye catches something.  He looks at the broken plug.

He shakes his head and looks around for a wrench to fix it.  He

puts the rifle down on the floor of the shed.

ALICE sits up into the CAMERA, startled and afraid.

She gets her bearings and looks around.  Stands up.  She looks

at the bulb overhead.  Pulls its string.  No light.

She sees the lanterns which have been placed around.

Now that she has figured out where Bill must be, she relaxes a

little.  Smiles.  She goes to the mantelpiece, takes the lantern,

and walks into the kitchen.

ALICE puts down the lamp and goes about filling a big old tea

kettle with water.  She puts it on the stove and pops on a

burner and prepares two cups of instant coffee.

Impatient and curious, she walks to the front door of the cabin

and looks out.

The calm which she had grasped a few moments before is beginning

to desert her.

ALICE takes the kettle off the flame.

The whistling stops abruptly.  ALICE pours water into the two

cups.  She stirs the coffee.

Unable to contain her impatience any longer, ALICE picks up her

lantern, grabs a slicker, and heads out the door.

ALICE walks very quickly around the side of the cabin, headed

for the generator shed.

The door to the shed is closed.  ALICE looks around and then

puts a hand on the hand.  In CU we see the hand pull.  The door

doesn't budge.

REACTION SHOT:  ALICE decides to pull harder.

She puts down her lamp and uses both hands and tugs.  She pulls

until she finally wrenches the door open.  The lamp casts long

shadows upwards.

The generator sits silent.

ALICE leans into the shed to look.

The CAMERA TRACKS very slowly around behind her so that we can

see behind the right-hand corner of the building.  As we clear

the edge, we see something hanging from a rope which runs down

from a branch above.

The something turns slowly in the wind.  It is BILL--dead--in

a travesty of the martyrdom of St. Sebastian, shot with arrows.

ALICE comes out of the shed, distraught.

She closes the door, and turns in the direction of the body.

REACTION SHOT:  ALICE.  She is riveted with horror, unable to

move or turn or run.  The SOUNDTRACK screams with the THEME,

the insistent STINGER, a shriek and a thunderclap.

ALICE finally gives voice to her terror--again and again.  She

turns, leaving the lantern, and runs back towards the main

cabin.

ALICE bursts through the front door into CAMERA.

ALICE races to the coffee table, looking for BILL's machete.

It is not there.

She gets down on her hands and knees to look for it.

LOW ANGLE:  as she scrabbles on all fours.  Nothing under the

couch.

ALICE gets back up and rushes to the ping-pong table to get the

lamp.

Just as she reaches the table--which is more or less against a

window--a figure swings, pendulum-like, into the glass,

shattering the pane in the window opposite ALICE.

It is BRENDA, long-since dead, dripping wet, white-faced.

ALICE sees her, turns and runs as fast as she can for the front

door.

ALICE flings open the wooden door and runs into a rain-suited

figure.

ALICE screams.  The figure holds ALICE in a strong grasp.

When ALICE focuses, she sees a kindly woman in her early

forties.  She is strong, fairly tall, and very nice-looking.

This is MRS. VOORHEES.  She wants ALICE to stop shrieking long

enough to tell her what the matter is.  ALICE sobs incoherently,

pointing back to the rear window.

ALICE allows the woman to lead her back into the room.

MRS. VOORHEES leads ALICE to the couch.  In the BG we can see

the broken window, but BRENDA is not visible.

MRS. VOORHEES comforts her with a strong arm.

ALICE points over her shoulder towards the ping-pong table

without looking.

MRS. VOORHEES looks, shrugs.

ALICE's face registers the new terror.

MRS. VOORHEES smiles warmly.

ALICE waits by the couch as MRS. VOORHEES crosses the room to

the back window.

ALICE stands close to the fireplace.

MRS. VOORHEES reaches the window and looks out.  BRENDA's body

sways just out of reach.  MRS. VOORHEES is shocked.

MRS. VOORHEES turns back and, as she passes the ping-pong table,

she picks up the lantern.

ALICE waits at the fireplace.

She lets MRS. VOORHEES take her in her arms.

ALICE backs up.

MRS. VOORHEES looks around the room.

The fire glimmers slightly in the fireplace.  A log burns

through and rolls off, throwing up a small shower of sparks.

MRS. VOORHEES has almost completely calmed the girl down.

Strokes her soft hair.

ALICE looks up as the WOMAN strokes her hair.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  MCU as the OLDER WOMAN's hand strokes the

YOUNGER WOMAN's hair.  The hand is missing its little finger!

The THEME enters upon the TRACK in a lyrical, child-like

version, echoing back to another era, pretty and light.

MRS. VOORHEES shakes her head gently.

As she speaks, MRS. VOORHEES reaches into her slicker in a

surreptitious manner and very slowly slips out a long hunting

knife.

MIXED on the TRACK, filtered, echoed and distant, is the SOUND

of a ten year old boy, JASON, crying for help in a fantasy

version of what might have happened when he drowned in 1957.

MRS. VOORHEES has gone through some subtle changes.  While her

voice remains warm and comforting, her face has started to slip

into her other manifestation.  All of this is in concert with

the visibility of her weapon.

ALICE starts to become increasingly anxious.  She can't see the

knife rise behind her.

MRS. VOORHEES shakes her head from side to side.

The shock of recognition hits ALICE.  In CU her eyes look up

and see the knife which MRS. VOORHEES now has poised and ready

to strike.

ALICE bolts off the couch and stumbles backwards into the

fireplace, scattering ashes and sparks.

MRS. VOORHEES stands and steps forward.

ALICE, in panic, looks for an escape.  She grabs the fireplace

poker.

ALICE swings the poker back and forth.

MRS. VOORHEES raises her arm to slash downward with the knife.

ALICE swings the poker hard to MRS. VOORHEES' other arm and rib

cage.

MRS. VOORHEES is in pain, her face a mask of rage.

ALICE drops the poker to run for the door.

MRS. VOORHEES hesitates for a moment, then follows ALICE

deliberately.

Lightning goes off followed quickly by thunder.

ALICE gets to the door and stops.  She fiddles with the side of

the screen... somebody has latched it.

CLOSER on ALICE, taking one look over her shoulder, kicks at

the door, snapping the latch.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  as ALICE runs out into the rain, the mud, the

thunder and the lightning.  The THEME is going full-tilt as

ALICE makes a quick turn to run towards the road.

TWO-SHOT:  as ALICE bumps into an object which swings from

above.  A slice of lightning reveals it to be the dead body of

STEVE CHRISTY hanging from the tree.  A rope is looped under

his arms, his head is down on his chest, and a long blade

protrudes from his heart.

REACTION SHOT:  ALICE in terror.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  ALICE runs and suddenly bumps into another pair

of legs which swing from the same big tree.

STROBE SHOT:  of JACK, dead.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  ALICE runs for the Arts & Crafts.  In the BG we

see can the yellow-slickered MRS. VOORHEES closing the distance

between herself and ALICE.

ALICE runs for the door, slams through it.

The CAMERA waits for MRS. VOORHEES, but she does not appear.

MRS. VOORHEES runs to the door and opens it quickly.

ALICE is hiding in the shadows behind a table.  We hear the

SOUNDS of the generator starting outside and suddenly three

bright overhead lights come on.

ALICE looks across the room to the light switch, afraid to

reveal her hiding place.

She looks for an escape.  There's a window.  She starts for it,

then stops and turns and dives under an arts & crafts table.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  MRS. VOORHEES opens the door and walks in a few

feet.

She carries a machete in her hand.  We see this instrument in

CU as we hear OVER the sound of her son, JASON, calling to her.

The CAMERA PANS UP to her face and we see that the voice of

JASON is coming from within her in LIP SYNC.  She is both

characters--though the child's voice is authentically dubbed.

ALICE can just make out what is happening and can hear the

VOICE OF JASON.

ALICE is very still.  Her eyes widen as she listens to MRS.

VOORHEES rave.

MRS. VOORHEES is having trouble catching her own breath.  She

strokes her throat with her free hand and the voice of the

child stops.

She wades through table after table, pushing them out of her

way with the strength she has demonstrated throughout as the

PROWLER.

When MRS. VOORHEES is too quick for her, shoving a table across

her path like a barred door.  Before ALICE can think twice,

MRS. VOORHEES has shoved a second table in behind her so that

now ALICE is sandwiched between them.

She can duck down or climb over or come out the only open end--

the end where MRS. VOORHEES is standing.

ALICE looks behind her and sees a shelf.  On the shelf is a box.

MRS. VOORHEES is coming down the aisle between the two tables.

Her machete is coming up in an attack.

ALICE reaches into the box in CU and pulls out a handful of

leather-working tools.  She hurls them at MRS. VOORHEES as hard

as she can.

MRS. VOORHEES has to put her arms up to ward off the spinning

knives.  One cuts her under the eye and she lets out a low

animal bellow.

ALICE leaps up, climbs over the table and runs for the door.

MRS. VOORHEES shoves the tables over and hurries after her.

ALICE gets to the door, shuts off the light switch and runs out.

We can hear JASON'S VOICE.

The central area is bathed in light.  The rain has stopped.

MRS. VOORHEES has turned on all the flood-lights.

ALICE runs to the corner of one of the cabins.  She stops to

look back.  MRS. VOORHEES is gaining on her.

ALICE runs to the equipment shed.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  The door is thrown back.  ALICE goes in.  Looks

for a weapon.  Nothing is available.  ALICE sobs with fear.

She runs.

MRS. VOORHEES passes the equipment shed.

A single bulb outside the building shows ALICE as she bursts

through the door.

It is a small cabin.  On the walls are five .22 calibre rifles.

ALICE runs into the dimly lit cabin and takes one of the rifles

from the wall.

She rummages in a drawer.  It's empty.  She tries another.

Empty.

The next drawer has a lock and hasp on it.

ALICE looks around.

MRS. VOORHEES is on her way, charging through the night.

ANGLE ON ALICE:  She whacks the hasp with the butt of the

rifle.  The hasp doesn't give.  She gives it another butt

stroke.  It won't give.  A shadow covers ALICE's back.  She

turns.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  MRS. VOORHEES is standing in the doorway,

blocking the light.  Still carrying the machete, MRS. VOORHEES

steps slowly toward ALICE.

ALICE, with an almost useless .22 in her hands, does the only

thing she can.  She takes the weapon by the barrel and,

swinging it like a baseball bat, whacks MRS. VOORHEES on the

arm/shoulder, knocking the killer off balance and into the wall.

MRS. VOORHEES slams through a flimsy table, crushing it, and

drops to the floor.

ALICE runs out the door.

ALICE huffs past the dead camper van, through the mud to the

front door of the main cabin.  She runs in quickly.  There is

no sign of MRS. VOORHEES.  She turns off the lights and runs

into the kitchen.

ALICE looks from side to side, hoping to find a place to hide.

She spots the half-open door to the larder, looks inside and

then hides there, closing the door behind her.

There is some light that comes through the cracks and crevices.

ALICE's hands fasten onto the inside lock--the dead bolt type

which requires a key to unlock it from the other side.

ALICE relaxes a little bit now that she is locked inside.

As soon as she relaxes, we hear the front screen door slam.

Then we hear some shuffling around outside.  The lights are

turned on.

There is the sound of pots being rustled through.  Then the

sound of another door being slammed.

ALICE relaxes again.

Then there is a silence.  ALICE thinks about unlocking the door

now.  She reaches out for the lock.  Then thinks better of the

idea.

She cases down the door frame to the floor.  On all sides are

the cans of food and cooking implements.  There is a large

skillet, some bags of flour, etc.

ALICE covers her head with her arms.

The doorknob above her head (a few inches away) turns very

slowly.  We see it, but she does not.  MRS. VOORHEES' hand

finishes turning and now starts to push gently.  There is

almost no give, but we see that the door is being tested.

The voice on the other side is very young, very sing-song.

ALICE jerks back and stands up on the far side of the small

room.

Fists bang in a rage on the floor.

ALICE folds her hands at the side of her face.

The fist-banging gives way to a short silence.

The silence is interrupted by a new sound:  MRS. VOORHEES has

begun to use her machete to chop away at the outside of the

door to the larder.

REACTION SHOT:  ALICE... oh, my God...

At first we see nothing on our side.  Then, gradually, we see

little slivers of lights admitted by the blade's chops.  ALICE's

eyes race around the larder to try to find a weapon, a defense,

anything...

Larger holes are now made.  MRS. VOORHEES stops just long enough

to take a peck inside.  We can see her eye at the largest hole.

She goes back to whacking away at the door.  The hole is near

the lock.  It is soon big enough for MRS. VOORHEES to reach

inside with her hand and turn the rachet.

ALICE realizes she must defend herself.  She reaches down and

picks up a heavy skillet and, as the door opens, ALICE raises

her weapon and, screaming, charges the woman who is trying to

come through the entrance.

MRS. VOORHEES chops down with the machete.  ALICE fends off the

blow with the skillet that she holds with both hands above her

head.  As the machete blade bounces off the skillet, ALICE is

able to swing the skillet downward and hit MRS. VOORHEES with

a solid blow on top of her head.  MRS. VOORHEES sprawls

sideways across the table and then collapses in a heap on the

floor.

ALICE raises the skillet again to strike.  She crosses

carefully to MRS. VOORHEES and pushes her gently with her foot,

the way she might poke a dead animal in the roadway.

ANOTHER ANGLE:  MRS. VOORHEES lies totally inert.  There is a

small puddle of blood under her head.

ANGLE ON ALICE:  She relaxes, puts down her weapon and crosses

slowly out of the room.

The moon comes out from behind a cloud.  ALICE pushes a canoe

into the water and paddles, as rapidly as her tired body will

permit, out in the lake to safety.

Exhausted, ALICE puts her paddle across her lap and falls

forward, slumped across a thwart.

The first rays of sunlight streak the sky from beyond the

horizon, promising a hot and sunny summer's day.  The birds are

up, foraging for food.

As the CAMERA scans the peaceful scene, we see the sky

reflected in the calm waters of Crystal Lake.  The canoe

holding ALICE is drifting in big slow circles across the

surface of the lake.

ALICE lies, in MCU, in the canoe, sleeping.  She has not

changed her position since collapsing a few hours before.  The

water laps gently against the side of the canoe.  Very slowly,

she wakes.  She opens her eyes.

The canoe has drifted into the shade of some enormous tree

boughs that overhang the edge of the lake.

They shade ALICE from the bright rays of the sun.  The canoe

rocks gently.  ALICE is still, listening to the sound of the

lapping water.

Suddenly there is a blood-curdling scream, a MUSICAL STINGER,

and the screen is filled with the flying, whirling form of MRS.

VOORHEES, who leaps from the overhanging boughs into the canoe,

barely missing ALICE's slumped form!

The canoe immediately overturns and both MRS. VOORHEES and ALICE

try to find their footing in the shallow water.  MRS. VOORHEES

is covered in mud and blood.  She sees ALICE struggling to get

up and move toward her, brandishing her blood-spattered machete.

ALICE turns, sees MRS. VOORHEES coming.  ALICE grabs a paddle

floating near her.

MRS. VOORHEES pushes the canoe to one side, wading through the

waist-high water as fast as she can.  She screams with rage.

Her face goes through a horrifying transformation.  From her

mouth comes the VOICE OF JASON.

ALICE can't move fast enough to get away from MRS. VOORHEES,

who is slashing the air with her big knife trying to hit ALICE.

ALICE slips, falls in the water, gets her footing back and has

to turn and block the blow of the machete with the paddle,

using it like a staff to ward off the blow.  The machete cuts

the paddle nearly in half.  MRS. VOORHEES raises the knife for

another blow and ALICE lunges for her knees and succeeds in

throwing MRS. VOORHEES into the water.  The machete flies out

of her hand and lands in the water.  The two women roll in the

water.  MRS. VOORHEES is trying to strangle ALICE, her hands

stretching to reach around her throat.  They roll over and

under the water.  We cannot see who is winning.

Suddenly MRS. VOORHEES finds her footing and stands up, looking

for ALICE.  She is screeching madly.

ALICE shoots up out of the water holding the machete, and in

one, wild swing, decapitates MRS. VOORHEES, whose head flies

off into the water.

The body stands for a minute, then falls heavily into the lake.

ALICE drops the machete into the water and starts to wade to

shore.

ALICE walks slowly down the road away from the camp.  We hear

the sound of a car approaching.  Now it comes into view.  It is

a state vehicle, black and white, with an emblem on the door

that says "State Department of Health and Safety".  There are

two middle-aged bureaucrats inside.

ALICE waves down the car, which pulls up beside her.

The CAMERA PANS BACK while the two men get out of their vehicle

and come around to help ALICE.

LONG SHOT of the camp with the sun sparkling on the waters of

Crystal Lake.  The canoe lies half sunken in the shallows.  One

paddle drifts in the current.  The lake has swallowed its secret.

ROLL CREDITS.

