FADE IN:

We roll credits over-

Peal tight on a pattern of brown and black textures. The

image begins to shake. Slow motion. Graceful.

WE HEAR a low rhythmic THUMP, THUMP, THUMP...

The surface slowly peels off like flecks of dried old paint

as we pull back a little wider and realize that we're looking

at an OLD DOOR.

THUMP, THUMP, THUMP...

The door continues to rattle. Something or someone is behind

it, desperately fighting to get out.

THUMP, THUMP, THUMP...

Wider still to include the rusted, worn doorknob twisting

back and forth and shaking. Whatever is in there -- it's

locked inside.

SUPER: HELLRAISER:DEADER

INT. CRACK DEN - MORNING

It's almost pitch black in here as a few beams of light fight

W

their way through holes in the torn black window shades of

this flop-house apartment.

TN A HIGH SHOT

Te take in the scene. A young WOMAN, mid-twenties, lies on an

old mattress tossed on the floor in the center of the room.

There's a MAN asleep next to her with his arm around her.

About a half-dozen others, in various stages of nakedness,

are sprawled unconscious around the room.

WE BOOM DOWN and as we do we-

INT. CRACK DEN - NIGHT

We're in the middle of a crack/X party the night before.

Our YOUNG WOMAN (AMY KLEIN) moving through the party. She

reaches into the pocket of her long black coat and lifts out

a TAPE RECORDER. She clicks it on and slips it back into her

pocket.

THE MAN from our opening shot offers her some X. She lets him

place it on her tongue and then she swallows it. He smiles,

pleased, and turns to leave. She quickly but slyly removes

the X from her mouth and flicks it away.         F

Later. The party in full gear. Things are really starting to

get weird here as the crack pipe starts to make it's way

around the room.

Amy's putting on a full "X" performance, taking the crack

pipe and quickly passing it on, pretending to be too far gone

for another hit, all the while studying the other partiers

with a keen reporter's eye.

Later. After everyone has left. The sun is coming up. Amy

alone with the MAN. He's half-naked on the mattress, trying

to pull Amy close. Amy's looking for a safe exit, but she's

stayed too long and he's starting to get a little rough with

her. A wrong move now could push him over the edge.

Amy's vision starts to blur. Did he slip her something?

He pulls her onto the bed with him and starts to undress her,

she can't fight him off. But then his eyes roll back in his

head and he passes out.

Amy looks around the room which is starting to swirl. She

tips out of frame and we-

INT. CRACK DEN - DAY

Back to scene as Amy's eyes flutter open, quickly adjusting

to her unfamiliar surroundings. She freezes for a beat, then

after determining that the Man is asleep, she slides her way

off the mattress and rolls quietly onto the floor.

S

She snatches a small TAPE RECORDER off the ground and clicks

rewind -- satisfied.

She snatches a half empty pack of smokes off the floor and

she's gone.

EXT. A BUILDING ON THE LOWER EAST SIDE OF LONDON - DAY

A big sign identifies this old brick building as the home of

"The London Underground" -- a weekly newspaper in the

"Village Voice" mode, only scuzzier.

INT. OFFICES OF THE UNDERGROUND - DAY

MAIN TITLE SEQUENCE:

A pair of elevator doors open. AMY KLEIN exits and walks

towards camera. She's all in black, from her black sneakers

and black stockings up to her tinted glasses and jet black

hair. The only thing about her that isn't black is a

complexion so translucently pale that it bespeaks only the

most rare and grudging familiarity with daylight. She has a

paper coffee cup and a cigarette in the same hand, and she

alternates sips of coffee with puffs of her cigarette with a

practiced proficiency. She ignores the unhappy looks of her

fellow employees. She clearly has practice at this as well.

Little office cubbies scattered around a converted loft

space. "Too Hip" EMPLOYEES sit at their desks, typing at

computers, conferring at tables -- going about the business

of turning out another issue. They point and whisper as Amy

walks by.

Amy passes another cubicle as A YOUNG REPORTER holds the

newspaper's FRONT PAGE up in front of Amy. A big headline

reads, "How to be a Crack Whore" written over a photo of a

crack den in which we glimpse things better left unseen.

Beneath the headline is written, "A special report by Amy

Klein."

I

Amy is already past him, she throws back a middle finger for

a response.

BETTY, 50ish, her glasses hanging on the tip of her nose,

sees Amy coming.

Betty gives a broad gesture over her shoulder, pointing

toward the Editor's office across the work space. Amy heads

across the way, toward the office. Betty picks up the phone.

CHARLES RICKMAN, the Editor-in-Chief, is an Englishman in his

early forties, sporting a pony tail which, like a moustache

on a sixteen-year-old, only serves to emphasize his true age.

He's fiddling around with some sort of TV/VCR set up, and is

looking away from the door as it opens and Amy enters behind

him.

He turns toward a dour Amy.

Charles makes air quotes with his fingers.

More air quotes. Amy walks over to a "trophy table" where

she looks over a cluster of framed photo's. She points to one

of her and Charles, smiling together. More innocent times

for both.

She holds up the cassette recorder.

Amy spots an open container of Chinese food on Charles's

desk. She inspects it, then picks something out of it with a

pair of chop sticks.

He heads back over to the VCR. Amy ditches the Chinese food

and picks up her coffee again. She sits, lights another

cigarette.

He finds the button, presses it and turns back to Amy.

Charles closes the door.

Charles goes to the VCR and hits the play button. Amy

finishes her coffee and lights a new cigarette with the still-

glowing butt of her last one. She leans forward.

ON THE TAPE

The image flickers into view. It's handheld, low-rez, clearly

been shot in some dingy apartment somewhere, decorated in a

"mattresses on the floor/beer spray on the walls" type decor.

There are around half a dozen PEOPLE there, in their twenties

and younger. They drift in and out of frame, in and out of

focus.

We hear a woman's voice -- clearly the person who is

operating the camera, as the shot moves about the room. This

is MARLA CHEN.

The camera hesitates for a fleeting moment on ANNA, a girl

with bright dye-red hair (on the side of her head that isn't

shaved). Anna looks, with no particular expression and goes

away.

The camera turns toward a smudged mirror on the wall and we

get a look at Marla, a twenty-ish Asian girl.

round-faced girl with dark hair, comes out, looking a bit

nervous.

She gives a little smile. The camera swings over toward a

mattress on the floor. Some of the people are tugging a

plastic sheet over it. One of them, and the one who clearly

appears to be in authority -- a man with albino-like features

-- WINTER.

Winter glances up, then dismisses the camera altogether. He

looks off screen, then raises his hand. The room quiets. We

hear various voices.

Winter looks up and the camera swings toward Katya. She

hesitates. A girl next to her starts to prompt her.

She hesitates.

The camera swings back to Winter, who gestures for her to

come forward, then swings back to see her coming.

The various people in the room gather around as she comes to

the mattress. The camera moves this way and that, trying to

get the best angle to cover the action. People spread towels

on the mattress, over the plastic, as Katya, naked, sits down

on the towels, then lays back, flat on the mattress.

up with a big handgun -- maybe a .45.

The camera moves in closer as Winter takes the gun and slips

it into Katya's hand.

