LONDON 2007.. NOW

A row of rundown terrace houses. Some are boarded up. Not all

the street lights work. Those that do cast shadows of parked

vehicles glistening in the rain.

A front door opens and DON appears with rubbish which he puts

in a bin. He hears something and looks up to see four big

horses pulling a hulking great wagon down the middle of the

street. The wagon is a gigantic windowless box. The horses

are harnessed and there are reins but no sign of a driver.

It's a very weird sight. DON, unable to take his eyes off

this amazing apparition shouts back into the house from where

light from a TV flickers.

CAROL appears in the doorway.

But the wagon and horses have gone.

CAROL, disgusted, swats him on the head with the flat of her

hand and goes back inside.

A YOUNG COUPLE are snogging in the back of a parked car.

Music is playing on the radio.

They are interrupted by heavy vibrations and the terrifying

sight of the huge looming horse-drawn box as it trundles

past.

The clock shows and strikes 2am.

The wagon has stopped. The back begins to open, top, bottom

and sides, like a dark menacing flower unfolding its petals.

Shadowy FIGURES manoeuvre the side panels and begin to raise

the roof.

While this is happening THE CAMERA tracks around to reveal a

garishly lit club across the street.

A group of DRUNKEN YOUTHS emerge from the club, staggering,

laughing, shouting, drinking, breaking bottles, and throwing

up. The LADS grope the GIRLS. Everyone's having "a great

time".

They see the wagon and stop, unsteadily, in their tracks.

We now see what they see. The wagon has been converted into a

stage. We're looking at an old fashioned and very shabby

travelling theatre. Electric footlights are powered by a

clanking generator. The pediment above the stage carries the

words: THE ASTONISHING IMAGINARIUM OF DOCTOR PARNASSUS.

PERCY, a dwarf, dressed as a medieval demon and rigged out as

a one-man band plays a fanfare introducing a young man

(ANTON, 18-19 years old) who emerges from the back of the

stage dressed as MERCURY, the messenger of the gods, with

wings on his helmet and sandals.

PERCY does a roll on the drum as a curtain behind

ANTON/MERCURY rises to reveal DOCTOR PARNASSUS - he appears

to be an Indian holy man - long scraggly beard, chalk white

make up, a large red circle on his bald head, a crown of

yellow flowers, strings of beads, and partially covered in a

loose-fitting swath of white cloth - apparently levitating

several feet above the stage. (He's sitting on a glass

plinth). DOCTOR PARNASSUS is seemingly in a trance. A bronze

tripod containing burning incense stands beside him.

A young woman, VALENTINA,(wearing a wig of long blonde hair

and a white, flowing costume which gives her prominent hips

and breasts) stands facing an elaborately framed full-length

mirror nestled upstage amongst cut-out trees representing a

forest... This is `Beauty'. She turns and steps forward.

ANTON takes her hand. They make a couple of dance steps

together. They look enchanting and enchanted.

Now PERCY, in demon costume, leaps from behind the scenery .

PERCY indicates a ticket dispenser attached to the front of

the stage.

A beer bottle lands on the stage

The DRUNKEN YOUTHS cheer.

MARTIN has begun, with difficulty, to clamber onto the stage.

His MATES laugh and shout encouragement.

ANTON tries to prevent MARTIN from getting on stage. But

MARTIN thumps ANTON and pulls him into the `audience'.

MARTIN'S drunken MATES laugh and applaud.

MARTIN is now on stage and heading for DOCTOR PARNASSUS who

is still in a trance.

PERCY tries to head him off but MARTIN shoves PERCY off the

stage. PERCY lands on the ground with a crash.

More laughter from the MOB.

MARTIN is on the verge of tweaking DOCTOR PARNASSUS' nose or

pulling his beard when VALENTINA diverts him.

MARTIN turns his bleary focus to VALENTINA.

MARTIN'S mates roar their approval.

MARTIN lunges at `Beauty' who retreats up stage.

MARTIN blunders into the scenery as he pursues `Beauty' who

stays just out of reach. She takes cover behind a cut-out

tree.

ANTON and PERCY climb back onto the stage as MARTIN continues

to chase `Beauty'. VALENTINA evades him by ducking through

the mirror (made of flexible reflective material slit down

the middle). MARTIN crashes after her.

ANTON and PERCY exchange worried looks. They look at DOCTOR

PARNASSUS. Should they wake him from his trance? They decide

not to but it's a difficult decision.

The stage set, which was clearly only a few feet deep, now

seems much deeper and to contain many more cut-out trees.

`Beauty' weaves in and out of the 2 dimensional trees as

MARTIN chases her further into the increasingly magical

forest. Beauty's costume has been transformed into something

wonderful. (A rainbow studded with diamonds?)

VALENTINA comes into view. MARTIN is in hot pursuit.

VALENTINA stops, turns, smiles sweetly and slams her fist

hard into MARTIN'S gut. He doubles up. VALENTINA pauses for a

moment, contemplating doing some serious damage, before

striding off.

MARTIN staggers to his feet.

He rushes after her but, trips on a root (a real 3

dimensional tree root) and pitches face first to the ground.

Recovering, he looks up. Shock. He is surrounded by a dark,

terrible, and very REAL forest. `Beauty' has vanished.

VALENTINA, `Beauty', slips back on stage through the mirror.

Her costume has reverted to its original state. She examines

her knuckles on the hand with which she punched Martin.

ANTON looks at her. She shrugs. DR. PARNASSUS is still in a

trance, his lips moving soundlessly. ANTON watches DOCTOR

PARNASSUS in awe. `Beauty' sighs. She's had enough.

MARTIN is lost and terrified in the dark forest.

His voice echoes through the giant trees. But his cries are

interrupted by another sound...a Tarzan-like howl.

MARTIN spins around. Strange creatures are swinging on vines

through the giant trees. They are all around him. They look

like HANDS... with little heads and arms where the wrists

should be. They are all howling and jabbering.

From behind, a HAND CREATURE swings down and grabs MARTIN by

the collar, hoisting him high into the air.

Clearing the trees, MARTIN sees he is not alone. There are

many other people - all in the clutches of HAND CREATURES

swinging on "vines".

But, the "vines" are actually long, slim tentacles...

dangling from enormous, luridly coloured JELLYFISH that float

through the dark, frightening, sky.

From some of the tentacles, bottles of booze dangle - just

out of reach of the struggling crowd - all desperate for a

drink.

With a smile of satisfaction, the HAND CREATURE stops

jabbering and let's go of MARTIN'S collar.

Down he plummets. The ground rushes up. MATRTIN is as good

as dead. But when he hits the ground, rather than going

SPLAT!!, he bounces high in the air, turns a couple

somersaults and lands on his feet.

He can't believe what has just happened... and then he hears

music. Beautiful, ethereal music.

In the distance a light is glowing. It's the sun, rising

above a majestic mountain pass. Cut into the rock, is a long

stairway winding up to the summit.

The HAND CREATURE swings down, gives MARTIN the "thumbs up",

and points encouragingly toward the stairway.

Reformed and determined, MARTIN heads for the      stairs. But on

reaching them he discovers that each one is 6      feet high. The

stairway is ridiculously steep and difficult.      Letters are

carved into the first stair..."THE 12X12 STEP      PROGRAM...GOOD

LUCK". This is going to be tough.

The sound of a honky-tonk piano makes him turn. Behind him

the sky is dark. A roadside bar/nightclub with flashing neon

lights has appeared. He hesitates. He could use a drink

before the long climb. He heads for the club.

The door to the club is opened by a mechanical fairground

figure of a jolly smiling man (MR NICK) distinguished by a

bowler hat and a red waistcoat.

MARTIN, relieved and reassured by the welcome, steps inside.

The door closes followed by the sound from within of much

gaiety and laughter.

THE CAMERA pulls back as the nightclub suddenly EXPLODES IN A

BALL OF FLAME.

The sound of police sirens. We are back outside in front of

the theatre.

DR. PARNASSUS rises unsteadily, coming out of his arduous

trance.... `Beauty" moves to support him as, exhausted, he

loses his balance and snaps out of his trance.

DOCTOR PARNASSUS turns on ANTON.

The POLICE are dealing with a drunken mob of nightclub

REVELLERS, making arrests.

A distraught, hysterical, DRUNKEN GIRL is looking for MARTIN.

She sees `Beauty'.

A POLICEWOMAN grabs the DRUNKEN GIRL and drags her,

struggling, into police van.

MARTIN'S FRIENDS are searching for him around the stage.

