FADE IN:

TITLE SEQUENCE:

The setting sun backlights a series of abstract colored images. Holy

images of STAINED GLASS and lead.

FOOTSTEPS ECHO across the marble floor.

REVEAL - JULIE JAMES

A little older, a little wiser, yet still very pretty, no doubt. But

she's all alone in the house of the Lord.

And those doleful eyes of hers clearly telegraph a very heavy burden

still rests upon her soul.

She reluctantly walks past the rows of empty pews toward a curtained

CONFESSIONAL BOOTH.

Julie slides the drapes shut behind her as she enters, kneeling before

the CLOSED SCREEN. A beat -- and the SCREEN SLIDES OPEN.

A PRIEST

enters the adjacent booth -- barely visible through the WICKER MESH.

Julie looks down, crosses herself, and begins.

Julie swallows hard. This is difficult for her.

She balks at the memory of it. The priest bows his head in the shadows

of the other side.

The confession is cathartic for Julie. She looks relieved until,

Julie stops. Looks through the screen. A chill shoots through her

body.

Clouds of icy steam shoot through the partition. Julie moves closer to

the screen, trying to get a better look.

A STEEL HOOK

smashes through the screen right in Julie's face! She SCREAMS!

Still screaming -- Julie jumps back, seemingly knocked out of her

chair. She fights the unseen demon.

Sitting beside her, Julie's friend WILL BENSON reacts. He's a good-

looking kid in a shy, humble kind of way. And he tries to help her,

but she's too busy turning ten shades of red.

The PROFESSOR lowers his glasses, makes it even worse.

The lecture hall erupts with laughter.

Julie grabs her stuff and bolts.

Julie explodes out of the building. Hurries down a sidewalk. Will

finally catches up.

Julie realizes this is true.

Will takes this seriously.

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! EXPLOSIONS. Julie jumps out of her skin. It's just

STUDENTS letting off FIRECRACKERS as they fly past on bicycles.

Will and Julie are now thinking the same thing.

He smiles at her. She smiles back. They stop in front of her apartment

building.

She touches his face affectionately.

Will stands there akwardly --

Will walks away. Julie watches him a beat, then turns down her walk --

RAY

steps out of the shadows. Julie practically faints.

Recovering, she hugs Ray, genuinely glad to see him. He's a bit cold.

It should be obvious Ray feels insecure in the college environs, but

they're miscommunicating.

She looks at Ray, his compassionate demeanor. This is hard to say --

Ray is cold. This is what he's expected all along.

Ray is hurt and confused.

Ray starts walking away.

Ray keeps on walking.

Julie follows him out to the road. A group of LAUGHING STUDENTS block

her way.

But Ray is already gone. Julie stares after him a beat, then turns

quickly to her door. She clearly feels uncomfortable, exposed on the

walk alone. She nervously pulls her keys. A can of mace dangles from

the keychain.

Students throw FRISBEE in the street. Ray walks to his old truck,

which is wedged between a new Sport Utility and a BMW.

He clambers into the front seat. He thinks. Then, digs into his pocket

and pulls out the unmistakable shape of an ENGAGEMENT RING BOX. He

throws it in the glove box, starts the truck and drives away.

Julie opens the door and steps inside. She locks three deadbolts. She

stands there, alone, listening to the SILENCE. She doesn't even have a

cat. A faucet DRIPS in the kitchen.

The faucet DRIPS. Julie turns the handle. No success. She checks the

lock on each window. She stands for a moment.

She picks up a bag of chips and eats a handful. She opens the fridge

and takes out a can of nacho cheese sauce. She grabs a soft drink and

a jar of bread-and-butter pickles. She gets some cookies from a shelf.

She thinks. Opens the freezer, pulls out some fat-free sorbet.

She takes the whole mess toward her bedroom.

She hits the light switch. A bedside light goes on. It's a sparsely

furnished room. The bed is pilled high with pillows. She checks the

windows, then climbs into bed with the food.

On the bedside table are pictures of family and friends. She looks at

one of Helen and Barry. She looks around the room. It's depressing.

Outside we hear young people having fun, slamming car doors, going

places. She picks at the food, then puts it on the table. She turns

off the bedside light and enjoys the golden late afternoon glow in the

room.

Julie, sound asleep, is curled into fetal position on the bed.

There's a CLICK in the front hall. And ANOTHER.

Julie's eyes shoot open. She listens. Another SOUND, almost like the

front door being CLOSED.

Her arm reaches for the bedside light. She hits the switch. The bulb

POPS.

She gets off the bed and stands still.

There's another NOISE down the hall.

Julie silently scoots out of her bedroom toward the kitchen.

She gets a large KNIFE. She listens. It sounds like somone's in the

living room. She steps through the kitchen door.

As she moves we see a shadow pass the other way down the hallway

toward her bedroom.

There's NO ONE there.

She relaxes until she sees that her front door is slightly AJAR, light

from the hallway slanting through.

Holding the knife in front of her, she tiptoes to the hallway. There's

a soft RUSTLING coning from her bedroom. She gets a flashlight out of

a drawer and starts down the hallway.

She moves faster toward her bedroom. she listens outside the doorway.

It sounds like someone's in the closet. She moves into the room.

There's a noise in the darkened closet. Julie moves into position.

She turns the flashlight ON and lunges for the closet.

INT THE CLOSET

KARLA WILSON, 19, all grace and attitude, is on tiptoes reaching for a

box of shoes. She SCREAMS.

Julie SCREAMS. They both SCREAM together. Julie drops the knife and

flashlight.

They hug, jumping up and down with relief.

Julie turns on the light in the hallway. Karla has her shoes in her

hand and black pants draped over her arm.

Karla looks down and sees the knife. She picks it up with two

fingers --

Julie flops down on her bed.

Karla picks up the flashlight and goes into the closet.

She emerges with clothes for Julie. Holds up one outfit.

Karla holds up another dress for Julie -- strapless, sexy, the one.

Karla is dancing around. Julie laughs at her friend and takes the

dress when Karla hands it to her.

It's a hopping college joint: crowded, loud MUSIC, a dance floor, and

rivers of cheap booze.

AT THE BAR

Julie sits next to Karla as she waits for her drink order.

A handsome young man slides in front of them. This is TYRELL MARTIN,

23, handsome, no pretention, a little dangerous, with a killer smile.

He's looking for a dark corner or a storeroom or something.

He's kissing her ear. She starts to giggle.

The bartender sets down drinks on Karla's tray.

Tyrell hesitates.

Karla cuts away through the crowd, delivering drinks. Tyrell turns to

Julie.

Karla passes by --

is packed and thumping. Karla is dancing her way through the crowd.

Tyrell and Julie follow behind her.

Karla sees Will. He's dressed up and nervous. She smiles.

Will looks down at his feet. He and Julie stand there not quite

knowing what to do.

Tyrell and Karla go for it on the dance floor, leaving Will and Julie

alone. They look at each other. They look at everyone dancing.

Will is a few steps ahead as they move for the bar. Julie seems to be

relaxing, having a good time. Then, she looks up into the balcony and

sees, in a strobe light's FLASH --

SOMEONE IN A SLICKER

watching her intently. She squints for a better look, but he's gone.

She's chalk white and crestfallen. Her whole affect is "Will I ever

have a normal time?" She drifts amay toward the stairs to the balcony.

Will catches Karla and Tyrell's eyes. They're worried.

Julie catches another glimps of THE SLICKER.

She pushes her way through the crowd up the stairs.

Julie looks all around -- finally spotting the MAN IN THE SLICKER from

behind, making his way to the other side.

He slices through a crowd of students, and Julie keeps following. He

turns down a service corridor.

Julie follows, frightened, but unable to resist.

She catches him at the end of the corridor. She reaches out and grabs

the stranger's arm.

The stranger turns around. It's only a club kid in a tacky vinyl

raincoat and hat. She's shaken.

Julie turns away and hurries down the hallway. Todd follows, but his

figure quickly fades.

With morning sun filtering through her blinds, Julie wakes up to the

strange sound of THUMPING. She gets out of bed and slowly exits the

room.

The noise gets louder as she heads down the hall.

ANGLE ON A CLOSET

The noise is at its loudest -- Julie reaches for a doorknob -- and

yanks open the door.

ANGLE ON A CLOTHES DRYER

rocking and banging inside the closet. Julie frowns.

Julie spins, once again startled by Karla, who crosses to the dryer,

flipping open the lid and then jumping back to catch the shoes as they

pop out on the fly.

The phone RINGS. Karla looks at her watch.

A DJ for a local radio station BOOMS from the phone.

Julie watches her friend get excited.

Julie hits the SPEAKERPHONE BUTTON and Karla hangs up. The DJ's voice

echos through the appartment.

Karla's smile abruptly fades.

She looks to Julie, whose face is as blank as hers.

Julie has an idea. She scramles for the kitchen. Grabs a BAG OF FRESH-

GROUND COFFEE from the FREEZER.

Julie tosses the bag across the room to Karla. Karla reads the label:

RIO BLEND -- 100% BRAZILIAN COFFEE.

BELLS and WHISTLES and triumphant MUSIC.

Karla and Julie jump up and down ecstatically.

Julie hangs up and joins Karla dancing on the couch.

Julie thinks, she seems torn.

A SMALL MOUND OF RED SNAPPER is DUMPED -- wiggling and suffocating its

way across the deck of a fishing boat.

WE PULL AWAY TO REVEAL it's RAY who's just done the dumping. A

coworker, DAVE, friendly, playful, and down-to-earth, calls out from

the dock --

Ray takes the phone.

WE INTERCUT.

Ray is happy to hear her voice, but cautious.

Dave holds up two wriggling snappers. He dances them toward each other

in a puppetlike mating ritual, making KISSING SOUNDS and narrating --

Ray waves him away, concentrating on his call.

Dave's interest is piqued.

Dave is watching Ray closely. Ray's expression hardens.

Karla is watching Julie.

Karla is watching Julie.

Ray thinks. Dave looks at him like he's crazy.

Dave moves one of the fish like it's been shot through the heart.

She hangs up and Karla sits next to her.

Ray is staring unhappily at the little pile of snapper. Dave is

staring at him in disbelief.

Ray realizes how right he is.

Ray looks at Dave a contemplative beat, then walks over to his truck.

He leans in the passenger side and pulls out the engagement ring box.

Dave walks over.

He holds up the box and slowly opens it. Dave is stunned.

Ray is excited by the plan and Dave's right there with him.

We stare out at a rain-soaked stretch of road.

A PICKUP ROARS past, cruising along with its RADIO loud and windows

rolled down.

The music's even LOUDER in here. The mood is high...Two buddies going

to propose to a girl. Dave adjusts the radio to another AM station --

He adjusts the dial again, tuning in a country song, "MAMAS, DON'T LET

YOUR BABIES GROW UP TO BE COWBOYS," by Waylon Jennings and Willie

Nelson.

Dave starts singing along, extra LOUD and out of tune.

Ray looks at his goofy friend singing and starts to get a little happy

himself...

Then, Ray sees something in the road ahead. He turns down the radio.

They both stare --

RAY'S POV: A CAR TURNED SIDEWAYS

its HAZARDS blinking.

Ray slows and creeps past the car. The driver's door is open. It

appears EMPTY.

A BODY

is sprawled out in the road away from the car. Ray pulls over to the

shoulder and stops.

Ray has seen this before --

He throws open his door.

Ray steps from his truck. Looks back at the empty car, then turns

toward the body.

The body doesn't move.

BEHIND RAY

and behind Dave, in the other car, a FIGURE IN A SLICKER sits up in

the back seat and gets out of the car.

Ray continues toward the body.

RAYS POV - BODY

FACE DOWN -- WEARING A BLACK RAIN SLICKER.

Ray moves closer to the all to familiar image.

BEHIND RAY

SLICKER FIGURE moves toward the unsuspecting Dave.

Dave watches Ray in the road. He leans across the seat and rolls up

Ray's window.

Behind him, the SLICKER FIGURE gets closer, moving to the passenger

side of the truck.

Ray nears the body. He kneels down.

Ray reaches toward the body...

Something FLASHES IN THE SIDE-VIEW MIRROR.

Ray turns over the body. Something isn't right. Ray jumps back --

CLOSE - SLICKER MANNEQUIN

Its eerie smile mocking Ray who turns for the truck.

Dave hears something. He turns to late. SPLLAATTT!!! THE FISHERMAN

jams his hook through Dave's jaw and skull and YANKS DAVE OUT OF THE

CAR WINDOW.

There's no answer from dead Dave. Ray tries to see around the

headlights. He moves slowly toward the truck.

The BRIGHTS and FOGS come on, blinding Ray. The truck's engine REVS.

The truck rolls a few inches, adjusting a bead on Ray.

Then, tires spinning, the truck launches straight at Ray.

Ray runs at the truck. AT THE LAST MINUTE, he ducks behind the parked

car.

HIS TRUCK goes SCREAMING past.

Ray backs around the car --

AN EIGHTEEN-WHEELER

goes barreling by in the other direction. Ray dives out of the way.

IN THE ROAD

Ray is exposed. He sees his truck closing fast. He's got nowhere to

go. Then, at the very last second,

RAY

jumps off the edge of the road. His TRUCK SLAMS INTO THE BARRIER RIGHT

WHERE RAY WAS STANDING. SPARKS FLY! METAL BUCKLES!

Ray falls through the air. Lands hard on his leg. Tumbles down the

hill, finally stopping with a crash. He lies motionless at the bottom

of a ravine.

Karla exits the building. She watches Julie sitting on the curb.

A truck turns onto the street. Julie looks hopeful, but -- it's not

Ray.

Karla approaches her friend.

Julie turns.

A Jeep Cherokee stops, and an ebullient Tyrell steps out wearing

shorts and a Hawaiian shirt.

The passenger door opens and Will Benson steps hesitantly around the

Jeep.

Will reads Julie's expression.

Julie takes a last look up the street. She stands.

Will is relieved.

She bops over to Tyrell.

A wide-body jet SCREAMS through the clouds.

A nearly empty jet. Karla has her head on Tyrell's shoulder. Julie is

reading a book.

Will's knuckles are white from gripping the armrests in fear, and his

eyes are clenched shut. Julie looks on with concern.

Tyrell shakes his head.

Will doesn't move, frozen with fear of flying, but more closely bonded

with the concerned Julie.

Establishing. A Board of Tourism kind of shot. Blue water. Green

islands. Golden sun. Puffy clouds.

A BOAT CHUGS by with the words "Tower Bay" painted on the side.

Tyrell THROWS UP over the side.

More of a small tub than a ferry. Julie, Karla, Will, and Tyrell are

the only passengers.

At the bow, Julie and Karla laugh and play "King of the World." Julie

in the prow, Karla behind her.

They switch places. They look at each other and crack up laughing.

Karla takes in the surroundings, the salt spray, the day --

They throws their arms around each other and stare into the horizon.

AT THE STERN

Will talks to a very green Tyrell.

Tyrell is trying to keep from puking --

PAULSEN, the BOAT CAPTAIN, overhears as he passes --

Julie and Karla have rejoined the men.

We move off the boat and REVEAL the island. The intrepid vacationers

excitedly take in the island.

Establishing. An isolated tropical paradise with jungle growing to the

beach.

The ferry pulls in to a canopied dock. A white-sand beach stretches in

every direction. Beautiful tourists stroll about without a care in the

world.

Tyrell stamps his feet on the dock.

A dockhand, DERRICK, glides past him toward the ladies.

Derrick reaches for Julie's hand, clearly checking her out in the

process.

Julie smiles politely. Will gently nudges her on. They walk away.

He hangs a SIGN at the end of the gangplank. It reads: LAST DEPARTING

FERRY -- LINE FORMS HERE.

Our guys are already at the end of the dock.

Establishing. An opulent, Carribean-style hacienda resort with all the

accoutrements.

The main building is two stories high with a tiled roof. A bell tower

rises from one side. And, of course, it is surounded on all sides by

suffocating fooliage.

Julie and Karla take in the beauty of the resort.

TOW BIKINI GIRLS

catch the eyes of Tyrell and Will.

Karla THWACKS him on the back of the head, but they're all having fun.

The path widens. The trees part. It's even nicer up close. They walk

across a tiled plaza.

Behind them, THREE YOUNG GUYS carry their GIRLFRIENDS piggyback,

racing each other toward the departure dock.

Our two arriving couples move on toward the entrace, passing a FENCED

TENNIS COURT on the left. A GLASS-PANED ORCHID HOUSE straight ahead.

And, on the right,

A LUSH POOL with a built-in JACUZZI in the shallow end. An outdoor

THATCHED ROOF BAR stands nearby -- and just beyonk it, a small POOL

HOUSE.

A guy's unintelligible RASTA VOICE calls out --

They turn to see TITUS, white guy, dreads, full-Rasta demeanor. He's a

phony, but sincere about it.

Titus approaches Tyrell --

Will and Tyrell walk on. Undetered, Titus goes up to Karla and Julie.

Titus moves his hips.

Karla looks him up and down, wrinkles her nose --

The group moves on. Titus watches them go --

OMIT SCENE 21 & SCENE 22

Around TWENTY TO THIRTY GUESTS ARE ON THEIR WAY OUT as Julie and the

others walk in. Julie smiles at an old PORTER helping the departing

guests with their bags. He doesn't smile back.

The hotel is tastefully appointed with island decor. AN ORNATE METAL

STAIRCASE leads UP to the ROOMS -- and DOWN (AS THE SIGN SAYS) TO A

FITNESS CENTER.

In one direction, the foyer meets the entrance to a tropical

RESTAURANT/BAR. And in the other, A LOOBY LOUNGE is visible --

surrounded by four walls of BOOKS and HOTEL MEMORABILIA.

In a dark corner of the room, a uniformed MAID named OLGA dusts off a

massive WOODEN GLOBE.

Julie smiles at the woman on their way through the lobby, but Olga

shyly looks away.

Arriving at the FRONT DESK, the four of them find it deserted. They

wait patiently, then impatiently.

ANGLE ON A DESK BELL

as Karla slaps it with her palm. The bell RINGS for a long time then

fades into SILENCE.

Julie turns to consult the maid.

ANGLE ON THE GLOBE

The big ball is spinning. But Olga is no longer in sight.

Tyrell heads toward a DOOR beside the counter with a sign which reads:

PRIVATE OFFICE.

He grabs the knob and pulls the door open to...

RROWWWR? A PIT BULL ON A CHAIN JUMPS UP INTO HIS FACE -- its toothy

maw snapping shut about a half inch from his nose.

Julie and Karla laugh. Karla goes to hit the bell once more -- ONLY TO

HAVE HER HAND GRABBED IN THE PROCESS.

Karla gasps. Pulls away. We see the hand belongs to the hotel manager

-- BROOKS, balding, 40s, talks slowly, and seems to have secrets he

won't share with guests.

Will saunters away to look at the books in the lobby.

He scans a sheet as Tyrell stares at the pit bull.

Tyrell is put off by this aggressive comment.

Creepy thing to say. Slides a registration form.

Brooks covers --

Tyrell wraps his arms around Karla. Julie looks uncomfortably towards

Will.

And Brooks turns away through the office door. They walk toward their

rooms. Will catches up with them.

They walk down the hallway. Karla seems annoyed.

The mood is improving. A SQUEEKING NOISE interupts.

A BRASS LUGGAGE CART has appeared behind them. And ESTES, 60s, the

weary Haitian porter, steps from behind it.

He sees their happy, expectant faces and changes the subject.

A beat as Julie and Karla exchange a look. Then, Karla tosses one of

the keys to Julie.

Tyrell makes fake goo-goo eyes at Will. Estes looks away.

But Tyrell grabs Karla and drags her into the room. We here GIGGLES.

Estes grabs the bags and takes them into the room. Julie and Will are

left staring at each other.

She laughs and they go into the room.

BEEP. BEEP. BEEP. Ray is hooked up to a heart monitor. Although he's

asleep, we can tell he's bruised and generally beaten up.

WE RACK to a DOCTOR checking on him through the glass.

We see a COP next to the doctor.

As the cop stares at him deadpan, the doctor realizes how rediculous

this must sound.

CLOSE UP: Ray's eyes pop open. He's listening.

The cop explains things to the doctor.

They walk back down the ICU.

The doctor and cop approach the nurse's station. The NURSE is reading

a magazine. She folds it away.

Suddenly, the monitoring equpment goes OFF with a series of LOUD

WARNINGS.

The doctor, nurse, and country cop hurry back toward Ray's room.

THEIR POV - THROUGHT THE DOOR

The wires and monitors are unhooked and Ray is GONE.

A resort bar on the beach. Ocean breezes and surf SOUNDS come through

the window.

It's tiki galore, complete with a bamboo bar and fishing gear hanging

from decorative nets from the ceiling. There's a KARAOKE STAGE in the

corner.

Will and Tyrell enter and head straight to the bar. A bored bar

tender, NANCY, looks just like Jennifer Esposito, doesn't look up from

her paperback.

They freeze.

They nod.

Tyrell sizes her up quickly.

Will and Tyrell exchange a danger-Will-Robinson glance.

ACROSS THE BAR

Karla and Julie walk in talking quietly to one another.

Karla looks at her. She's sincere, but firm.

Joining the men, but continuing her thought --

She illustrates with her own big smile.

Nancy reaches out a hand and they touch just the tips of their

fingers.

Nancy continues making their cocktails.

JULIE

backs into something, turns and gasps -- it's a statue of an OLD

WHALER, complete with HARPOON, WHITE BEARD, and YELLOW SLICKER.

She doesn't let Karla see that it upset her.

Nancy puts their drinks down in front of them.

They all pick up their drinks.

They drink and toast again.

Nancy looks straight at Will --

She flips a switch that lights the Karaoke stage.

She's already heading for the stage.

AT THE STAGE

CLOSE ON the karaoke machine. Karla flips through a binder full of

songs.

But there will be no mercy.

Reluctantly she goes to the song book. She sees something

particularily awful.

Tyrell nods and punches a few buttons. Julie takes the stage as sappy

strings begin to swell. She looks at the MONITOR, then

melodramatically at the crowd, and begins to sing -- no, BELT --

Gloria Gaynor's "I WILL SURVIVE."

Will stands, clapping. Tyrell pounds his chest. Karla flips up her

LIGHTER, swaying like a hard-core fan. And Julie continues, crooning

out the chorus as the beat kicks in and the gang begins to dance.

ANGLE ON THE KARAOKE MONITOR

The schmaltzy lyrics keep scrolling by -- white against black. But

then...in the middle of the song...the color changes. RED CAPITAL\

LETTERS BEGIN TO FILL THE SCREEN.

Her voice trails. Her smile abruptly fades.

MICROPHONE

falls to the floor. The room echoes with an electronic WHUMP. Everyone

stops dancing, confused.

CLOSE - JULIE

trembling, shaking, a mess. Will jumps onstage.

Julie loos at the screen -- the normal lyrics are still scrolling. She

suddenly feels their eyes upon her. They're looking at her like she's

having a nervous breakdown.

Stung, she rushes off the stage.

But it's to late. She's bolted from the bar.

Julie steps into her room. Closes the door behind her. She falls back

against it, trying to calm herself down.

She looks around the cozy room.

Julie starts to undress, get ready for bed, the day of travel finally

catching up with her. She grabs something to sleep in. Tosses it on

the bed. And that's when she sees it,

CLOSE - ENVELOPE

propped on the pillows. Her name written across. She is frozen

momentarily.

Almost against her will, she moves toward the envelope. She reaches

down and picks it up.

She hesitates, then opens the envelope. She pulls out a SINGLE WHITE

CARD.

ANGLE ON THE CARD

In bold print it reads: SURPRISE!

DARKFIGURE

appears over Julie's shoulder. Julie can feel the presence. She spins,

scaring --

WILL

who YELLS and drops the flowers and champagne he was holding. The

bottle bursts and covers them with spray.

She grabs a TOWEL off the bathroom door, trying to help him clean up

the mess.

He picks up a rose. Most of its petals on the floor.

He hands the rose to her. There's a moment between them. He

reluctantly heads for the door.

Will looks down at his wet pants.

Passing Karla and Tyrell's room on his way down the hall, Will spots

the DO NOT DISTURB SIGN.

He hears an INCREDIBLE POUNDING from inside. He shakes his head and

mopes down the hall.

Karla bounces playfully on their big bed as Tyrell crosses toward the

windows.

She falls back against the plush comforter, looking up at herself in a

long MIRROR HANGING RIGHT OVER THE BED. Tyrell loves this and quickly

moves beside her in the bed. She lets him get real close, then she

jumps up --

Tyrell reaches for her, but she bounces off the bed.

Karla pulls her suit out of a bag and models it seductively and

flirtatiously for Tyrell.

Tyrell gets off the bed --

Derrick, the dockhand, whistles in the darkness as he coils the bow

rope of a service boat around a cleat on the dock.

Ominous shadows play all along the dock. Out on the water there's a

big SPLASH.

The dockhand rises, looking out at the water with a sigh.

He turns away. As he does, we see

THE END OF THE DOCK

where a sinister SLICKER FIGURE stands perfectly still, silhouetted by

moonlight.

Derrick paces down the dock the other way past a handfull of other

tied-off staff and service boats.

He picks up a hose and begins spraying down the hull of a Sunfish

sailboat.

He turns the hose off and begins coiling it, backing toward an

EQUIPMENT SHACK. Suddenly, a HAND touches him on the back. He jumps

and turns to see --

TITUS

standing there smoking a spliff.

Derrick throws the hose in its place.

Derrick is now ignoring Titus.

Titus glides away into the dark. Derrick watches him go. There's

another SPLASH in the water near the dock.

Derrick walks to where the splash was. He kneels down by the edge --

watching BUBBLES RISE from the dark water below.

WE PUSH IN AS HIS FACE GETS CLOSER TO THE WATER --

AND THEN -- RISING SLOWLY FROM THE DARK WATER DIRECTLY BEHIND THE

DOCKHAND -- A SINISTER SLICKER.

Derrick hears A SPLASH -- and just in time for...

SPLAT! THE OLD HOOK IN THE EYE. THE FISHERMAN PULLS HIM DOWN. HE

SCREAMS -- BEN YANKS ON THE HOOK -- AND DERRICK'S CRUMPLED BODY FALLS

INTO THE WATER.

ANGLE ON THE WATER

as poor Derrick's BLOOD MIXES WITH BUBBLES...

Bubbles of a different kind. The JACUZZI sits in an enclosure at the

shallow end of the SWIMMING POOL.

And enjoying its warmth, Karla and Tyrell are liplocked in the

churning tub. MUSIC plays on the boombox beside them.

The tempurature rises and Ty's hands begin to wander. Still clad in

her cute bikini, Karla pulls away --

She splashes him.

Tyrell moves in for the kill. He won't take no for an answer.

He goes in for a serious kiss. Things start to heat up --

Tyrell is done talking. He pulls her over to him and the moment

becomes more passionate.

Karla opens her eyes in time to see --

TITUS

surface in the pool next to them.

Karla SCREAMS. And not just because it was a surprise. Titus looks

even uglier when he's wet.

Titus opens his mouth, reveals a smoking PHILLY BLUNT on the end of

his tounge.

Titus eyes Karla in the Jacuzzi. Tyrell moves protectively in front of

her.

Titus blows a cloud of smoke on them both, rolls the joint back into

his mouth, and swims off. Tyrell is angry, but Karla pulls him back.

A dejected Will appears in his bathing suit, a towel over his arm.

Tyrell sees him coming.

Will slips into the water ignoring Tyrell's look.

Karla shoots Tyrell a look.

Ray is at a telephone booth up the street from Julie's apartment.

He looks exausted. Blood seeps through his shirt. He's in pain.

In the empty night lobby, behind the desk

THE TELEPHONE

RINGS and RINGS. We push in on the phone RINGING unanswered in the

night. Nobody is around to answer it.

The DOOR CREAKS OPEN once again to her room. And from a STRANGER'S POV

-- WE SLOWLY CREEP INSIDE.

A CLOUD OF STEAM billows from the open BATHROOM. THE SOUND OF A SHOWER

is heard. We MOVE TOWARD IT.

INT. SHOWER

Eyes closed, Julie stands with her face right under the showerhead,

trying to relax. Something softly goes THUMP.

Julie opens her eyes. Turns off the shower. Stands there, frozen,

listening.

No reply.

AT THE BATHROOM DOORWAY

In a robe with a towel on her head, Julie peeks into her room. Nobody

there. She sighs, and crosses back to the bathroom sink.

AT THE SINK

Julie looks to a spot where her toothbrush should be. She frowns.

Looks around. Some of her things are missing. She peers into the

fogged-up bathroom mirror.

She whips the TOWEL off her head and WIPES IT ACROSS THE MIRROR,

MAKING THE BEDROOM BEHIND HER VISIBLE.

Ready to spit, she looks down. AND IN THAT INSTANT -- WE SEE A SHADOWY

FIGURE PASS BEHIND HER IN THE BEDROOM. She looks back up...and HE'S

GONE. Julie turns on the water to rinse.

ANGLE ON THE BEDROOM DOOR

as it SLOWLY CREAKS SHUT, the SOUND DROWNED OUT by the SINK.

INT. BATHROOM

Julie turns off the water -- and KLUNK-KLUNK -- and NOISE at her door.

The sound STOPS.

INT. JULIE'S BEDROOM

She steps out of the bathroom, crossing toward the door.

No answer. She peers through the PEEPHOLE.

She unlocks and opens it. Nobody there.

Julie quickly closes the door and relocks it, her heart rate just

begining to rise again as...

KLUNK-KLUNK. She hears it again. Then, the sound STOPS. But standing

at the door -- she realizes that's not where it came from. Her eyes

immediately go to...

THE CLOSET

Damn. That's where it came from. She slowy pads across the room in her

slippers toward the door. Trembling...she reaches for the handle...AND

TUGS IT OPEN!

There's NOTHING. She stares a beat. DRIP DRIP DRIP.

She sees something on the floor of the closet. She touches a finger to

it.

IT'S BLOOD.

She looks up.

THE DOCKHAND

comes dropping down at her, dangling, enmeshed in barbed wire. He's

dying before our eyes. Blood bubbling from his mouth. His body

twitching.

Julie stares at the body. She's almost catatonic. She blinks. She

blinks again.

Suddenly, in DEATH CONVULSIONS, his arms fly toward her --

She SCREAMS --

Karla and Tyrell are drying off beside Will as their hysterical friend

comes racing across the pool plaza.

Will cathes her in his arms and she sobs uncontrollably.

They can see she's not fooling around.

Everyone is gathered in the center of Julie's room. Julie is held

tight by Will. Brooks, the hotel manager, conducts the investigation.

Brooks approaches the closet door. Julie holds her breath. He throws

it open. A long beat.

Julie steps in -- stares into the empty closet. She can't believe her

eyes.

She searches their faces, looking for someone to believe her.

Julie grabs Brooks by his robe.

She doesn't know where to start. Nancy pokes her head around the door.

Will wanders over to the closet and checks it out.

Julie goes for the phone.

She picks up the phone, listens, then dangles it from her hand.

An exasperated Brooks heads for the door.

And Brooks is gone. Outside the window, it starts to rain. There's a

CLAP of thunder.

JULIE

looks out the window with glazed-over eyes.

And we PULL AWAY from Julie's face through the glass -- SLOWLY TILTING

above her room to another

TINY WINDOW

in the bell tower. A candle burns, and lighning flashes illuminate the

haggard face of Estes, the porter.

It's a claustrophobic room. Estes turns away from the window,

shirtless in his uniform pants. A beaded cord hangs around his neck,

small fishhook dangling from it.

Beside the candle, he picks up a leather bag and dumps out a handful

of voodoo icons: roots, coins, sea glass, chicken's foot. He sets them

on a divination tray.

He opens vials and sprinkles powder and assorted liquids into a small

wooden bowl. He opens a drawer and extracts a toothbrush. He dips the

brush in the bowl -- covering its bristles with a sticky goo. He holds

the brush over the candle's flame. The old man watches it SIZZLE.

ESTES picks up

A STRAW FIGURE

and impales it on his fishhook necklace.

His eyes roll back in his head. He enters a trance.

Olga, the maid, pushes her laundry cart toward the end of a long,

dimly lit hall. She sees a pile of dirty linens outside of a room --

ROOM 228.

She stops, perplexed. There's nobody staying in this room. She picks

them up and stuff them in her cart. Then she knocks on the door.

She knocks again and notices her hand leaving bloody marks on the

door. She looks at her other hand. Her arms and hands are covered in

blood.

She turns back to the linens. Something bloody is wrapped inside of

them. She paws at the sheets, trying to unravel the mystery --

The door the Room 228 slowly cracks open. A STEEL HOOK reaches out and

slices into her apron. It tugs. She turns, and she starts to SCREAM,

she is yanked into the room.

A DO NOT DISTURB sign flips over the handle and the door SLAMS shut.

We hear her SCREAMS from inside.

Establishing. Bars on the windows. Neon PAWN fickering. Hand-painted

sign reads: Se Habla Ingles.

CLOSE ON AN ENGAGEMENT RING

Ray's engagement ring. The pawn shop owner, MAC, cowboy hat, knows his

job, holds it up to the viewing loop next to his eye.

Mac looks around his shop at the usual jumble of crap: vacuum

cleaners, golf clubs, guitar amps...

REVEAL - .38 REVOLVER

encased in a glass cabinet.

Mac barely hasitates, he knows he's getting a steal --

THE GUN AND THE RING

go down on the counter next to each other. Mac pulls out some forms.

Ray starts writing. Mac is overcome by a moment of humanity.

Ray gives him a steely stare --

Mac shakes his head.

Off Mac's sadness at young people today.

We move into the hotel room and gradually reveal FOUR SETS OF FEET at

the end of one bed. They are crammed into a king-size bed together.

Julie is awake. She gets out of bed and moves toward the window.

It's raining outside. The wind is blowing. The storm has arrived.

Karla pulls a sleeping hand off her chest. The hand belongs to Will.

She pinches the hand. Will starts.

Tyrell kicks his feet around, trying to get some room.

Karla kisses Tyrell on the cheek.

Tyrell glares at Julie by the window. Sees the incredible rain.

Julie ignores him, staring out the window.

Angry at her boyfriend, Karla gets out of bed and joins Julie.

Karla pulls Julie close in a show of support for her friend whose mind

everyone believes has been inventing dead bodies.

Julie doesn't look to enthusiastic.

Karla and Julie enter the gym. It has Nautilus machines, treadmills,

Life-cycles, free weights, tanning beds, speed and heavy bags.

Karla walks over and does a full roundhouse -- spinning and planting

her foot dead center of the heavy bag.

Julie smiles at her friend bravado. She steps over to a stairmaster

and starts her workout.

Will and Tyrell step out of the room into the long, empty corridor.

They cross to a balcony overlooking the lobby. The whole place seems

deserted.

Will's voice echoes across the lobby. Tyrell is maybe a little

nervous, but hiding it.

They walk down the steps to the lobby.

They cross the lobby.

Tyrell's already out the front entrance.

Will and Tyrell exit the hotel and make their way down the steps

outside and go splashing across the flooded grounds. Debris from the

storm is scattered all around them.

Tyrell keeps walking. Will looks around at the wind-and-water-swept

vista. Not much of a day for activities.

Tyrell moves across the grounds. He looks back. Will is stopped in his

tracks, looking up at --

IN THE WINDOW OF THE BELL TOWER --

ESTES, staring down at them.

Will trots after him, but he takes a glance back at the window...Estes

is gone.

Julie has finished on the stairmaster. Both she and Karla are sweaty

after a good workout. Their moods have improved.

Karla leads Julie over to the tanning beds.

Julie is reluctant.

Karla opens the canopy of the tanning bed.

Julie peels off her sweats. Lies down in her underwear. Straps on a

small pair of GOGGLES.

Karla lowers the canopy over Julie.

ANGLE ON A WALL TIMER

Karla sets the DIAL.

ULTRA-VIOLET TUBES

come to life -- Julie is bathed in purple light.

Tyrell looks across the grounds and sees, at the far end of the tennis

court,

TITUS'S POOL SUPPLY CART

half-obscured by the heavy fooliage surrounding the court.

Tyrell walks away from Will toward the cart. He hears the jam-box on

the cart playing "TRENCHTOWN ROCK" by Bob Marley..."One good thing

about music...when it hits you feel no pain..."

The open door of the entrance CLANGS against the fence in the wind.

Tyrell decides to cut through the court to the far entrance and the

cart.

Tyrell walks across the court to the sagging net.

There is a RUSTLING in the foliage around the court. SOMETHING moving

fast and quietly.

The door SLAMS shut behind him.

Tyrell looks back at the door. The latch seems to have stuck and it's

no longer swinging.

Tyrell turns back toward the other door and sees

The PIT BULL

standing in the doorway. Tyrell stares at the dog. The dog GROWLS at

Tyrell, low and menacing.

Simultaneously, Tyrell turns and the dog lunges forward.

Tyrell sprints to the door -- it's LOCKED by a length of metal slipped

into the coupling.

He turns to see the dog bounding at him --

Tyrell leaps up the fence just as the pit bull lunges for him. The dog

catches his pant leg. Tyrell kicks him away and frantically scrambles

up.

The dog relentlessly barks and snaps as Tyrell climbs the fence.

WILL

looks in at the dog angrily charging the chain-link. He looks up at

Tyrell.

He reaches out to try and catch Tyrell.

ON THE FENCE

Tyrell finally looses his grip and falls back, landing on top of Will.

He rolls quickly to his feet.

Karla hammers the bag with a series of quick punches. She finally

stops to catch her breath and hears a THUMPING from the other room.

Karla sticks her head out the door to the gym, listening. At the end

of the hall

AN OPEN DOOR

is visible, a single BARE BULB lighting the room. Karla moves

curiously toward it.

Karla slowly sticks her head around the corner just as the THUMPING

NOISE SOUNDS LOUNDLY. She reacts --

A THUMPING DRYER

in a small laundry room. Karla relaxes.

She approaches the MACHINE, which is rocking with the noise.

She opens the dryer door and jumps back.

A BLOODY SHOE

flies out and into her arms. She looks down a beat, and SCREAMS bloody

murder.

A hot spray of blood gushes from the machine.

REVEAL - OLGA'S DISMEMBERED BODY

tumbling inside the dryer. Karla SCREAMS again. Then she hears the

SOUND of heavy boots coming down the hall. She runs to the door and

locks it.

She's trapped in a bloody basement cell. Suddenly somebody POUNDS on

the door. Karla SCREAMS.

She runs across the room, shoving a folding table toward a row of

BASEMENT WINDOWS.

The door is hit again and again. Somebody is throwing their shoulder

against it.

Karla bangs hysterically on the windows, leaving bloody handprints on

the panes.

Julie's eyes suddenly open through the GOGGLES. She thumbs off her

WALKMAN.

Nothing. And just as Julie lies down again, Karla's frantic SCREAMS

echo down the hall.

Julie goes to push open the canopy. As she does, the CANOPY LID is

JAMMED DOWN ON TOP OF HER. A CHAIN shoots through the handles. Julie

is locked on the grill.

Suddenly the lights go off. Julie thrashes around, trying to free

herself.

JULIE'S POV - THROUGH THE PURPLE LIGHT

She sees someone walking around in the room. The person steps closer.

Julie could almost reach out and touch him.

She begins to SCREAM!

Tyrell angrily makes his way past the outdoor pool bar as Will

follows. Tyrell spots a tray of empty bottles. He picks one up and

smashes it in half on the ground. He holds out the jagged bottle to

Will.

Tyrell breaks another bottle in half.

They move toward the nearby POOL HOUSE.

Tyrell and Will stop outside the door. There's MUSIC from inside. More

Bob Marley -- "Lively Up Yourself..."

Tyrell opens the door and charges in. Will's right behind him.

They spill into the room. A light fog hangs in the air. The two of

them begin to COUGH and CHOKE.

Titus sits on the floor facing away from them, facing a window through

which gray light pierces the gloom.

Titus doesn't move. He's too still. In front of him is a large BONG

that still SMOKES SLIGHTLY.

Tyrell closes the distance and kicks Titus in the back.

Titus falls over like a block of wood, rictus already setting in.

His hands are bound behind him. The cord is tied off to some pipes

against the wall.

HIS FINGERNAILS SCRATHCED GROOVES

into the floor, scrabbling for the window and fresh air.

Will points out two empty one-gallon PLASTIC BOTTLES.

ANGLE ON THE BOTTLES

One is labeled CHLORINE, the other MURIATIC ACID.

Will pulls Tyrell from the pool house.

The two of them collapse, COUGHING and CHOKING.

Will splashes a puddle of rainwater on his face --

Tyrell rolls over on his back next to Will, practically coughing up a

lung.

Suddenly, they both hear KARLA SCREAMING. They sprint for the main

building.

Tyrell and Will follow Karla's CRIES to a narrow srip of basement

window which runs along the side of the hotel. Her palms have bloodied

one of the windows.

Karla ducks down on the table just as the window EXPLODES inward.

Tyrell kicks in the pane and looks in.

She reaches for him. He pulls her up and out through the window.

Karla tumbles to the ground with only one thing to say.

Tyrell and Will suddenly burst through the door.

ANGLE ON THE TANNING BED

Where Julie is just visible, her fingers madly groping for a way out.

Will struggles to open the bed, but the chain holds strong.

Tyrell grabs a nearby dumbbell.

ANGLE ON THE CHAIN

Tyrell slams the barbell down, shattering the fiberglass handles.

A few of the ultraviolet tubes POP as Will yanks up on the cover.

They help Julie up, her eyes adjusting to non-purple light.

They head for the manager's office.

They burst into the middle of the room before seeing that Brooks's

head has a machete sticking out of it.

Tyrell, Will, and Karla look at the radio, which is smashed on the

floor next to Brooks.

Julie stares in shock at the reverse wall, at

A STUFFED MARLIN

with the words "I STILL KNOW" written on it in blood.

Karla SCREAMS --

THE POWER CUTS OUT and the hotel plunges into darkness.

Julie SCREAMS and runs from the hotel.

Julie runs down the steps and cuts through the blowing palms.

Julie is at the end of the dock. Tears are streaming down her face,

her chest heaving.

The others catch up with her. Karla realizes the boats are gone.

Everyone is freaking out.

Tyrell picks up the end of a cut mooring line --

They look at Julie. Their escape is cut off by water. They're scared.

Her voice is low and urgent, an impromptu confessional.

Tyrell begins backing away from Julie. He picks up a piece of

driftwood from the dock.

Tyrell holds up the log as a weapon. He's angry and afraid --

Will moves closer to Tyrell --

Tyrell turns and heads down the dock. Will goes with him. Karla takes

a few hesitant steps after them, then turns back toward Julie, who

hasn't moved.

Julie sees her friend caught in the middle, sees her suffering. She

reluctantly starts for Karla --

Standard bus folks: old people in Panama hats, buzz-cut military geeks

on holiday.

Ray sits in a seat. He's in pain and does not look good.

He pops a handful of pills into his mouth and washes them down with an

Orange Crush --

A dignified OLD LADY has been watching him --

Ray slumps back, waiting for the pills to work.

The door to Estes's room BANGS inward. Tyrell, Will, Karla, and Julie

charge into the room.

The cluttered room is empty.

Tyrell and Will begin roughly searching through Estes's possessions.

In the corner there is a curtain used as a partition. Julie pulls the

curtain back and discovers

A SMALL, HEAVY CABINET

sitting in the corner. It seems to glow from inside while casting an

evil pall over the room.

Julie moves toward it and hesitates before opening the doors.

Inside -- is a small voodoo shrine. A candle has burned low before it.

Hanging before the altar is

THE LITTLE STRAW MAN

impaled on a fishhook.

Julie looks closer. She sees her toothbrush, a hair tie, assorted

other knickknacks belonging to her friends.

Karla looks in. Tyrell snatches the straw man up.

THUNDER rumbles across the sky like the judgement of God.

Julie, Karla, Tyrell, and Will walk quickly down the corridor. They

have grabbed some of their things.

Will and Tyrell eye the stairs leading down to the lobby.

Will and Tyrell exchange a glance, an "are you man enough?" kind of

glance.

The men head into the kitchen and bar area.

Karla is terrified and waits by the stairs, but something catches

Julie's eye. She walks across the lobby.

Julie keeps walking. She sees historical pictures of the hotel: work

crews during construction; the first limbo contest; fishermen standing

next to sailfish and marlin.

Near the pictures, Julie sees the globe. It's spinning slowly.

Julie hesitates, then walks toward the globe. It stops spinning. She

looks down at it.

CLOSE ON - THE GLOBE

and Julie's hand finding Brazil. We see the capital is not Rio, but

Brazilia. This is dawning on Julie when we hear --

She jumps out of her skin. Estes was standing right there in the

shadows.

Karla SCREAMS.

Tyrell comes flying across the lobby past Karla. He dives on Estes,

tackling him to the floor. Will is right behind him.

Tyrell holds up battered Estes --

They shake Estes, finally giving him a chance to speak.

Estes steps forward --

They look at Estes...Is he telling the truth?

They stare a beat --

They look to the office, the gym...The sense of death surrounding

them.

They begin moving for the door.

Establish. The rain pounds a fleet of fishing boats. The boats are

securely battened down in the weather.

Ray limps past, heading for a small building at the end of the dock.

Its sign reads: Island Ferry, Jack Paulsen -- proprieter.

A gear-strewn office. Paulsen watches an episode of Party of Five.

There is a loud KNOCKING at the door.

Paulsen slowly gets up. He cracks the door open. Ray stands

silhouetted against the rain.

Paulsen senses something isn't right.

Ray pushes his way in --

Paulsen looks at him standing there drenched.

Ray pulls out the gun and points it at Paulsen --

Estes, Will, Tyrell, Julie, and Karla walk along a trail through the

heart of the island. The storm has abated for a few minutes.

It's windy, dark, and spooky. The kind of place you'd take people if

you wanted to scare them with a classic ghost story. That is just what

Estes is doing.

They continue along the path.

Estes looks at them in the dark, slowing for just a second.

There are strange NOISES out in the woods.

A huge branch is blown from a tree and comes crashing down through the

underbrush, scaring them. Estes calmly steps around it.

The winding path leads to a small orchard. They hang on his every

word.

In the center of the orchard is a cemetery.

They move off the path into the safety of the woods. There seems to be

activity around the place. It's silent and eerie.

Julie stares, fascinated. She is slowly drawn toward the house. Karla

grabs for her arm.

She leads, they follow, circling the house. Julie rounds a corner of

the shack and stops. She sees --

TWO TOMBSTONES

The first stone reads: SARAH WILLIS (birth/death)

The second stone reads: SUSIE WILLIS (birth/death)

Beyond them

A FRESHLY DUG GRAVE

and the group moves slowly toward it. The headstone, partially

obscured by the mound of dirt, comes into view.

The third headstone reads:

"A Lying Whore" is scratched with a knife.

Will goes to comfort Julie --

Julie shouts into the darkness.

She kicks over her headstone --

She looks defiantly down the path.

Will looks around. Estes is gone.

Will disappears into the darkness.

They move cautiously into the kitchen. Blue emergency lights flicker

above them. It's a big room with plenty of nooks and crannies for

somebody to be hiding in.

Tyrell picks up a couple of different knives. He hefts them in his

hand.

Karla grabs a paring knife --

He picks up a huge butcher's knife and cuts the air with it. He then

roughly empties other drawers looking for more weapons.

Karla looks to Julie, something on her mind. Julie catches the look.

Julie steps over to Karla.

Tyrell picks up on the mood swing. He moves closer to them. He's

sympathetic.

Julie smiles for a second.

Will runs from the trees and finds himself by an old house. He sees

Estes by the ocean, near a boat.

Estes doesn't answer right away -- he keeps his back to Will.

Estes picks up the boat's oar. He speaks low, almost inaudibly.

Estes swings the oar, cracking Will's head hard.

Tyrell, Julie, and Karla approach the pantry -- a huge steel door.

Tyrell steps inside.

He starts looking for something to eat --

CLANK. There's a soft CLATTERING from somewhere in the room. Everyone

freezes, staring into the darkness.

Tyrell puts a finger to his lips, then creeps down an aisle,

listening. There's nothing but SILENCE.

He moves toward the first aisle...He jumps out. The aisle is empty.

JULIE AND KARLA

move down an aisle behind him.

Tyrell ducks around to the second aisle. He slices the air, ready to

pounce. This aisle is empty.

JULIE AND KARLA

nervously move another aisle down.

Tyrell moves stealthily toward the third aisle...This is it. He lunges

forward into the row...Empty, also.

There's a small SOUND...A MOUSE scampers off under the shelves. Tyrell

turns and smiles at Karla and Julie --

A ROLLING PIN

bashes him on the back of the head. Tyrell hits the floor,

unconscious.

JULIE AND KARLA SCREAM

A DARK FIGURE jumps down from the shelves. Tyrell puts his arms up --

Nancy, the bartender steps out of the shadows brandishing her rolling

pin.

Tyrell stands at the sink, where Karla holds a towel full of ice to

his head. Nancy, the bartender, looks on apologetically.

Tyrell moves as he talks, fed up and exhasted. He crosses past the

stove and under a huge hanging rack of pots and pans.

THWACK! A STEEL HOOK

sinks deep into the base of Tyrell's shaved skull, a look of abject

surprise on his face.

The women freeze as Tyrell dances like a marionette before being

hoisted up and hung on the rack like a used saucepan.

THE FISHERMAN

is in the vent above the stove. He stares out at them from the hood of

his slicker.

Ben jumps from the range onto the floor. Karla is in shock. Julie

yanks her and they flee.

As she goes, Julie picks up

A LOOSE KNIFE

and hides it in her back pocket.

Ray pilots the boat through the dark, choppy water. He's navigating by

compass, maps spread before him. He sees something off the bow --

A BOAT

drifting on the fast sea. The words "Tower Bay" are painted on the

side. Ray pulls alongside and discovers the boat is empty.

He reaches for the radio.

Ray guns the boat away.

Julie, Karla, and Nancy run into the lobby. The storm is WAILING

outside the front doors.

They pause for a second. Behind them we hear the rapid THUD-THUD-THUD

of Ben's boots.

Nancy goes straight to a desk and pulls out a flashlight. She points

to the main staircase.

The women run up the stairs. Behind them, we hear Ben's FOOTFALLS

echoing.

On the top floor, they race toward the end of a dark hallway.

At the far end of the hall, Nancy illuminates a section of the

ceiling.

Julie helps Nancy reach a pull cord in the ceiling.

A WOODEN LADDER

pulls down. Nancy quickly climbs up.

BEN WILLIS

enters the hallway and continues toward them.

ON THE LADDER

Karla slips, nearly knocking Julie to the floor. They both scramble

upwards --

Ben hits the ladder --

Just as Julie reaches the top rung she SCREAMS --

BEN'S HOOK IS ON HER FOOT!

Nancy appears in the opening and throws a brick down at Ben. It hits

him in the chest and knocks him back.

Julie makes it into the attic. They pull the ladder up behind them

like a drawbridge.

Julie, Karla, and Nancy surround the hatch they've just shut. They

fumble with it --

From below comes LAUGHTER. There's a tug on the hatch, cracking it

open. The girls pull it back shut, but it's hard to get a grip.

There's more tugging, the hatch bending down; they can see Ben. Then,

the rope SNAPS. The hatch slams shut.

Suddenly the STEEL TIP of the HOOK pokes through the crack...It

wriggles around...Turning...And begins to pull the hatch down.

They try to hold it...But it's no use. They let go and jump away.

The attic is lit by a cathedral window. It's crosshatched with wooden

beams and pink insulation.

THUNK! Karla's foot goes through a gap between two beams.

KARLA'S FOOT

dangles through the ceiling.

Julie helps Karla back up onto a beam.

Karla and Julie follow her precarious progress.

Ben climbs off the ladder to a beam. He watches them leap from beam to

beam. His hook glints in the light.

Julie, Karla, and Nancy move toward the cathedral window. They turn.

They are cut off. They spread out against the wall looking for an

opening to get back to the hatch.

Ben feints toward Nancy then swipes at Julie --

He misses. She leaps away. She looks down. Instead of insulation, she

sees a

WINDOW INTO THE HONEYMOON SUITE

She sees her bed through a one-way mirror. Julie stares, momentarily

transfixed. Karla is edging her way around the side of Ben.

Ben suddenly whirls and lunges at Karla. He grabs her, but they both

lose their balance, teetering for a moment on one of the beams, before

falling --

They CRASH through the mirror --

Karla and Ben hit the bed in a rain of glass.

Karla bounces to her feet and dives out of the way as Ben swings his

hook.

Karla backs onto the porch. She backs up against the railing.

Julie and Nancy reach the CATHEDRAL WINDOW. They open it and look out.

and Ben advancing toward Karla, whose back is against the railing.

Karla looks behind her, sees

THE GLASS ROOF OF THE ORCHID HOUSE

which doesn't look nealy strong enough to suppor her.

Ben advances, swining the hook. Karla leaps over the railing and onto

the glass.

Karla keeps a wary eye on Ben as she gingerly backs up on the glass.

The GLASS begins CRACKING, subtle crack lines splintering out from her

footsteps.

Ben lunges and swipes at her with his hook.

Karla leans away from the attack and loses her balance, slipping onto

her back on the glass.

She lifts her head. Starts to move...CRACK. The glass is fracuring

beneath her. She looks through the glass.

KARLA'S POV - THE ORCHIDS BELOW

She tries to slide toward a support...The glass CREAKS and MOANS as

she moves across the room.

She's almost to the support when

THE ROOF EXPLODES

taking Karla down into the orchid house.

The roof shatters in an explosion of flying glass.

Karla land on her back.

She's unconsious --

Julie and Nancy look at the empty space which once was a roof

supporting Karla --

Ben turns and looks up at Nancy and Julie. Then, he sprints from the

balcony.

Julie and Nancy duck back into the attic.

Julie and Nancy climb down into the hallway. They are cautious,

expecting Ben at every turn.

They hurry across the lobby.

A sprawling, steam-filled room, dense with vegetation of all sorts and

shelf after shelf of beautiful orchids.

Karla lies unconscious. Slowly, she opens her eyes.

There's a rustling in the flowers. She tries to get up, but can't yet.

She waits in terror as

BIRDS

fly up and out of the hole she's made in the roof.

Karla tries to stand and her leg gives way. She tests her knee --

Karla starts hobbling. She reaches the door -- it's locked from the

other side.

There is a thick glass window set in the middle of the door.

The cranes startle again, something upsetting them. Karla spins to

look. Nothing.

Julie and Nancy arrive at the door. Karla pounds on the other side --

points to the lock.

Nancy sees a KEY RING by the door.

Nancy tries the first of many keys. Something catches Julie's eye. She

moves in for a closer look. Her eyes go wide --

ORCHID HOUSE - JULIE'S POV

A powerful BOLT OF LIGHTNING cracks. Fills the room with a pulse of

bright light. BEN IS STANDING INSIDE AND HE'S HEADING STRAIGHT FOR

KARLA.

Karla spins. Sees him. Her terrified scream blends with the cranes,

now SHRIEKING VIOLENTLY.

Nancy fumbles with the keys. Drops them. Julie tries to keep calm.

Ben closes fast, slicing the tops off orchids as he goes. He skewers a

bud on the tip of his hook.

Karla pounds on the door.

Nancy fumbles for the right key but the lock is old.

The key is stuck.

She's running out of time. Julie sees a FIRE AXE encased in the glass

safety box.

Julie smashes the glass with her elbow. Grabs the axe.

Julie hammers the door with the axe. Wood splinters. Glass cracks.

Ben is almost on top of Karla now.

Julie swings. The axe breaks the glass, pulls the frame out. Julie

drops the axe. They grab Karla. Pull her through.

Ben swings. The hook rips Karla's shoe, but Julie and Nancy pull her

through.

Julie and Ben are face to face. Julie has the axe in her hands. She

stares him down.

Ben rips off his hook, eyeing Julie.

They flee. Ben tries the door, realizes it had locked behind him. He

can't fit through the circular window. He throws his shoulder against

the door. And again. And again.

The door frame starts to give --

Julie, Karla, and Nancy approach the iron door to the underground

storm cellar. Julie carries the axe.

They struggle together to open the heavy door.

Stairs lead down into darkness. Karla hesitates --

Julie gets in, pulling Karla in behind her. They pull the door closed

behind them.

The darkness is complete. We hear MOVEMENT.

Nancy pulls the chain on an overhead bulb. The lights go on,

illuminating

THE DEAD CORPSES

of Brooks, Derrick, Olga, and Titus -- whose hand Karla is holding.

The women SCREAM!

They muddle together, trying to collect themselves.

Suddenly, there is a POUNDING on the iron door. They SCREAM.

Then, Julie remembers the axe. She motions the others to stay back --

The iron hatch is slowly opening. Julie gets the axe into possition --

WILL

pokes his head through. He's clutching a piece of wood as a weapon.

They are ecstatic to see him. They bound up the concrete stairs --

Will is already on the move toward the hotel.

Will shakes his head. He's walking woozily.

Julie points out that his chest and stomach are covered in blood, too.

Will looks down, clutches himself, and keeps moving.

Ray guns the boat straight up onto the beach. He leaps from the boat.

Will slumps down on the bar floor. He's floating in and out of

consciousness. Julie leans over him, concerned.

She looks back towards Nancy --

Karla starts, then hesitates. Will moans, looks at her.

Karla and Nancy rush from the bar. Julie looks tenderly at Will. He

looks back at her. She pulls some hair off his forehead. He smiles

weakly.

Karla and Nancy go to the area near the check-in and behind the desk.

Karla looks behind the desk. Nancy is searching the shelves.

Julie tenderly searches the area around Will's stomach. She's fussing

with the clothes, looking for the wound.

Will takes her head in his hands, looks her in the eye.

The slow change in Julie as she realizes...

She starts to run. Will roughly grabs her.

His voice switches to that of a familiar radio disk jockey.

He drags her out of the bar.

Nancy sees a white metal box sitting on a shelf. She reaches for it...

It's a first aid kit.

ANOTHER HAND

reaches over and lands on top of her hand. She jumps and sees Estes

right behind her. Karla SCREAMS.

Suddenly Estes's expression changes to surprise, and

A SPEAR TIP

appears in the front of his chest.

Nancy screams and looks over Estes's shoulder to see

BEN WILLIS

standing there holding a spear gun.

Estes topples over on top of Nancy, pinning her underneath his dying,

convulsing body. Nancy struggles to get loose.

Karla rushes to Nancy. She tugs on her arm, trying to pull her free.

The fisherman strides toward them. He raises his hook. He swings at

Karla's head.

THE HOOK CATCHES

on a beam. Karla struggle with Nancy.

Ben tries to free his hook hand. Karla looks up at him. He calmly puts

his foot onto Estes's back and steps down with all of his weight,

driving

THE SPEAR TIP

deep into Nancy who expires with a sigh.

Karla, blind with rage, attacks the fisherman. He kicks out with a

boot and sends Karla fying onto

A GLASS TABLE

in the lobby area. The table explodes. Karla is finished.

The fisherman works his hook free from the post. Karla is unmoving and

looks quite dead.

Will pulls Julie along a muddy path in the rain. He's got her by the

hair. She's slipping and falling.

Julie's trying to get to the knife she's stashed in her back pocket.

They come into the orchard. They are covered in mud. Julie stumbles

again. Goes to her knees. Works the knife free and slashes up at Will.

She slices him across the face.

He steps back, feels the blood.

There is a creepy pause. Will stares at his own blood. She catches her

breath...

Then suddenly, Will knocks the knife from her hand. He lifts her by

the hair. Enraged, he puches her in the face. She goes down.

Will has Julie in a choke hold. He drags her toward the open graves.

Julie is losing energy, slowly giving up.

He shoves her. She falls backward into the arms of Ben Willis.

Julie WAILS, struggling wildly in Ben's grasp.

Ben holds her back to look at her. He throws back the hood of his

slicker. We see his face clearly for the first time.

Ben pulls off his hook and strokes Julie's cheek with his stump.

Ben and Will spin to see

RAY

like the hero from a western, step out from behind a tree.

Ben starts to laugh. Will joins him.

Ray raises the .38 caliber handgun. He COCKS the hammer.

Ben doesn't let go of Julie. Lightning fast, he slaps his hook back on

and gets the point to Julie's neck.

Ray hesitates, his finger on the trigger. He does look scared.

Ben takes a step toward Ray. Then another, pushing Julie in front of

him. Will moves closer, too.

Ray's finger squeezing down the trigger.

Suddenly, Will dives for Ray. Ray gets a shot off, tagging Ben in the

shoulder. The gun goes flying.

Julie spins and hits Ben in the face. He knocks her into her own

grave...Mud begins to slide in on her. She tries to scramble out.

Will and Ray wrestle, punching each other repeatedly in the face.

Will has Ray down and his hands around his kneck. He looks him in the

eye.

Will gets the better of Ray. He's stronger. He yanks him up -- choking

him. Ray is begging to check out.

Ben charges toward Ray's back. He pulls back the hook for a roundhouse

slashing --

At the last second, Ray dips, elbows Will.

THE HOOK

goes straight into Will's chest.

The fisherman has hooked his own son.

Father and son make final eye contact, the son's eyes go blank.

Ben stares in shock as Will expires, falling back into the mud.

Ben SCREAMS in rage. Ray is tired.

THWACK. Ben begins beating Ray. He puches him. He straight-arms him

with the hook. He knocks him again and again and Ray is beaten, giving

up...

Ben has Ray against a tombstone. The hook slowly inches toward his

eye.

The hook is touching the eyelid --

A GUNSHOT

rings out. A look of wonder crosses Ben's face. He slowly turns away

from Ray.

JULIE

stands behind him holding the gun.

BLAM. BLAM. BLAM. She empties the gun into Ben, who flies backward

into Julie's grave.

As he tumbles, Ben releases the dirt stacked beside the grave...

A MUDDY LANDSLIDE

slowly covers Ben up.

Ben's face is covering over. His mouth starting to fill with dirt --

His face is completely covered. His mouth still moving.

The dirt covers him. It continues to fill, until just the

GLEAMING METAL HOOK

waves futilely out of the dirt. Then, is stops wiggling.

Julie goes to Ray.

Ray and Julie limp across the grounds of the hotel. They are moving

past some shrubbery when

A DARK FIGURE

jumps out. Julie yells. She and Ray jump back.

KARLA

stops in the middle of her kamikaze attack, knife held out.

They nod. They go to her -- jubilant group hug time. They compose

themselves.

The first rays of the morning sun appear. Ray looks adoringly at Julie

as the beautific light catches her face.

Ray kisses her. She kisses him back. They are silhouetted against a

beautiful orange sunrise.

The three of them throw their arms around each other's shoulders and

they start walking for the beach as...

A COAST GUARD HELICOPTER

rises into view.

Establish. The sun setting over a quaint street in a college town.

SUPERTITLE:			FOUR MONTHS LATER

Julie pedals her bicycle down the street. She has a book bag over her

shoulder. It feels like one of the first days of school.

She rides the bike up to a small house on the perfect street. She

rolls the bike right up to the front door.

Julie lets herself into the house. She leans her bike against another

bike in the hallway.

It's a perfect day. Birds CHIRPING. WIND in the willows. There's

another NOISE...from inside her house.

She goes perfectly still. And listens. Behind her, by the kitchen, the

shadow of a FIGURE moves. She whirls.

NOTHING

She creeps down the hallway toward her kitchen. She pauses --

The dark figure almost knocks into her. She SCREAMS.

It's Ray. He's holding a disemboweled toaster.

She sees the love in his eyes. She hugs him.

Julie climbs to the top of the stairs. She passes Ray in the bathroom.

She pauses in the doorway --

Ray is at the sink in boxer shorts. He's using an electric Waterpic

devicice that has just been opened, a gift from the party. It makes a

low WHIRRING sound.

Julie smile and walks to the bedroom.

Julie climbs into bed with a book. The bedroom is clean and orderly.

The windows are closed. The closet door is shut.

The room is decorated simply: a high antique bed; unopened boxes; a

highboy; an antique mirror leaning against the wall. A stuffed bear

sits in a chair.

There is a CLATTER from another room. Julie freezes. She waits. She

hears it again. She climbs out of bed.

Julie walks into the dark spare bedroom. The CLATTERING SOUND comes

from the open window. The wind is blowing the blinds.

Julie relaxes. She shuts the window. As she leaves the room, we notice

the dirty imprint of a boot below the window.

Julie passes Ray who is still absorbed with the new toy.

Behind him, the door softly closes. The lock twists. Ray is oblivious,

happy being the dental-hygene pacesetter of the household.

Julie enters the room. She looks at the closet door. It is open a

crack. She hesitates, trying to remember if it was open before -- it

wasn't.

Julie approaches the closet. She catches her refelction in the mirror

next to the closet. She peers into the crack of the closet. She can't

see anything. She throws open the closet door.

NOTHING

She looks around the room.

She sits down on the bed.

We see her bare feet from under the bed.

She smiles, relaxes. She looks in the mirror leaning against the wall.

Something has caught her eye. She freezes. She turns slowly back to

the reflection in the mirror. She sees the glint of steel --

A HOOK -- CRASH ZOOM INTO REFLECTION --

THE FISHERMAN CROUCHING UNDER HER BED

Julie turns too late --

The fisherman lunges out and grabs her legs. Julie screams. She goes

down --

Her nails scrape into the wooden floor as she is dragged under the

bed.

