1:  INT.  COMMUNITY HALL.   DAY.

The Church of St. Peter Los Angeles. "WHOEVER YOU SEE HERE -

WHATEVER YOU HEAR HERE - STAYS HERE." That's a notice on a

wall. Here's another notice "NO SMOKING." Everyone is smok-

ing. This is an AA meeting. There's a lot of Faces to look

at. I don't know when we'll get to the one that's talking,

but when we do it's like this. Eyes like glue. 50 years old

with a face the color of a snuff-users hanky. He says this:

Curious thing about drunks. Their disease often amuses them.

Ash into an ashtray and now a face. He's around 40 years old.

Intense eyes & dark hair. Probably good looking when the ang-

le's right. But this is a bad angle. His name is JOHN BERLIN.

2:  EXT.  OAKLAND BRIDGE.  SAN FRANCISCO BAY.  DUSK.

High above the Golden Gate. Too high for specifics. But there

is something down there of interest to the Camera. Descending

with the Music it seems to isolate a particular car. Too many

and too distant to know which it is. But the Camera is follow-

ing and already a mile up the 101 Interstate travelling north.

Maybe via a dissolve. And maybe not. But red and white either

way as the headlights are coming on. The Camera is closing on

the highway. And a car has definitely been selected. There is

nothing much of interest about it. It's a blue Mercedes sedan.

Mussorgsky will choreograph the pace of these cuts. The first

puts the frame directly in front of the car. In a few moments

its brights snap up. And Titles continue in a dazzle of light.

3:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  101.  DUSK.

Nobody in the car except BERLIN. And a lot of cigarette smoke.

Just time to wedge in a P.O.V. There's an intersection coming

up. He hits the indicators and crosses lanes winding his wind-

ow down. Takes a last hit at his cigarette and exits the butt.

4:  EXT.  FREEWAY INTERSECTION.  DUSK.

An instant of red as the cigarette shatters up the highway. A

heavy sky of red and black cloud. The Mercedes turns off head-

ing east. This time the Camera doesn't follow. Remains static

over the intersection until the tail lights finally disappear.

5:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

Bare wooden boards and the sound of singing birds. This house

hasn't been lived in for years. No furniture other than a new

mattress in the middle of the floor. Still in polythene wraps.

BERLIN just about awake on top of it. Ten seconds of disorien-

tation while he puts this together. A stone fireplace. Stairs

leading to what's got to be a tiny room above. With enough ef-

fort this place could be charming. But right now it's a wreck.

6:  INT.  KITCHEN.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

This kitchen was out of date by 1963. A huge china sink and a

fat fridge. But the cooker works and a battered old kettle is

already on the gas. T-shirt and instant coffee. BERLIN checks

cupboards out. Crockery includes a cup and that'll do for now.

His lips articulate a silent expletive. The gas has just gone

out. Tries to relight it without success. On hands & knees he

explores a rubber supply pipe that snakes under the back door.

7:  EXT.  OPEN END GARAGE AND YARD.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

In the garage he finds the gas cylinder.  Empty and so is the

bastard with it. He drags fingers through hair in frustration.

Looks around at the heaps of crap that need clearing out. The

view beyond he hardly cares to look at.  But if he does it is

as follows.  Clouds massing on the horizon. Fields getting re-

ady for rain.  His nearest neighbor is around 200 yards away.

His nearest Cow about 50. This house is remote and rural look-

ing with a veranda out back. But BERLIN has no inclination for

sight-seeing. As he walks away a dreary female Voice seeps in.

8:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

The Voice comes via a police scanner. Most of this dialogue's

bullshit. Illegally parked autos and a few drunks still about.

BERLIN sits on the mattress eating a breakfast of chewing gum

and milk. He unwraps another Juicy Fruit and regrets it. Goes

round his mouth like a shoe in a washing machine. A reluctant

decision is taken. Spits gum at the sink as he arrives in the

kitchen. Starts unloading his leather bag. A flotsam of stuff

is excavated including a 9mm Beretta and a pack of cigarettes.

He lights up and takes a cruel hit full of nicotine and guilt.

Wouldn't need a clairvoyant to realize he's trying to give up.

Something on the scanner interests him and he wanders back to

the living room. There's a call going out for "David 72 Sam 3."

David 72 acknowledges and BERLIN clearly recognizes the voice.

"We have a 927D/ Springfield Street/ City Dump." But David 72

is already hired. "I'm outside Emersons/ I wanna be the first

horrible face of her day." BERLIN exhales through a smile. The

Controller needs an E.T.A. for the 927? David 72 doesn't know.

Advises her to roll a couple of cars and "Secure the location."

9:  EXT.  HILLSIDE.  SPRINGFIELD STREET.  EUREKA.  DAY.

A Chevrolet zig-zags up a shabby canyon. It's the road to the

city dump. Its final bend reveals a line of bellowing garbage

trucks. Everything is backed up. Nothing moves except the car.

The cause of the hold-up is explained at the top. A Sheriff's

car blocks the road. A Uniform moves to wave the Chevrolet in.

10:  EXT.  ENTRANCE/TRACK/INFILL.  CITY DUMP.  EUREKA.  DAY.

The car parks at a weigh-house and a man in his 50's gets out.

Looks like he hasn't slept in a while. And got the mood to go

with it. Sports jacket and cowboy boots. A lot of laugh lines

around the eyes. But you wouldn't want to get arrested by him.

And especially not this morning. His name is FREDERICK T ROSS.

One of those walking with him is a 10-year-old Kid with a Dog.

TRAVIS looks almost too young to own his struggling moustache.

The track sinks through a valley of a million discarded tires.

The information comes from freckles and a missing front tooth.

He wears glasses and wields a rusty .22 pump-action Remington.

TRIMBLE speaks with some enthusiasm. ROSS looks back with none.

11:  EXT.  WORKING FACE.  INFILL.  GARBAGE DUMP.  DAY.

A series of terraces have been created as the canyon fills up.

Black smoke drifts from a distance at will of the wind. Gulls

and bulldozers. Plus a stinking ten foot cliff of human filth.

Several cars parked here including the blue Mercedes. Several

On Lookers behind yellow police tape. ROSS negotiates it look-

ing pissed off. Looks up and somewhere in the smoke is BERLIN.

And the next thing ROSS is looking at is a death in the trash.

A massive dozer in the background. Everything else is garbage.

Another face here is so familiar ROSS hasn't bothered to ackn-

owledge it. BLATTIS is a 32 year old local newspaper reporter.

Little is visible of the body except a blood-stained raincoat.

Truck horns wail in the distance. On the horizon it's thunder.

BERLIN wears surgical gloves. Removes film from a small camera.

Swatting smoke ROSS directs anger at a fat cop called VENABLES.

BERLIN hands the film to ROSS as he gets into identical gloves.

By now ROSS is crouched next to the Corpse examining the wound.

BLATTIS looks vaguely impressed. ROSS begins searching pockets.

Off he fucks under an ailing sky. BERLIN lands a friendly grin.

He finds keys and change and a sandwich in the Wino's raincoat.

TRAVIS stares up like he just stuck his dick in a light socket.

12:  EXT.  INFILL.  GARBAGE DUMP.  DAY.

ROSS crouches in garbage. Peers into a trash sack with assist-

ance of a flashlight. "You're right. It's a fucken hand." Pas-

ses the light to BERLIN. His turn to examine the ruptured bag.

BERLIN finally stands. Offs the flashlight. And hands it back.

13:  EXT.  INFILL.  GARBAGE DUMP.  DAY.

Pissing with rain and unspeakably miserable.  The 'grid-search'

is in progress and 50 square yards of the dump have been ripp-

ed to pieces. Intermittent voices from police radios. More veh-

icles down below including an ambulance with hazards revolving.

Up here half a dozen arc-lights scald off vapor. BERLIN search-

es under a busted umbrella. Looks up and runs into ROSS's eyes.

He wears a rubber cape & looks like a huge pissed-off Napoleon.

And both turn towards a Voice shouting from deep in the gloom.

Did someone say something funny? Does BERLIN just about smile.

And this is probably the only time ROSS will look happy today.

14:  EXT.  CAR PARK.  POLICE STATION.  CITY OF EUREKA.  DAY.

The Mercedes descends an incline and parks. Brown Chevys and

black & white patrol cars. Dismal lights and raining like it

doesn't end. BERLIN gets out and unloads the trunk (aquarium

& insulated picnic box). Slams the trunk and reveals BLATTIS.

Proffers a big yellow one plus assistance carrying equipment.

Raining hard enough to hurt. A brisk intimacy across the lot.

He hits a security code at the door. Obviously familiar with

the station. Dialogue continues as they step into a corridor.

15:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

They push through doors into the biggest room in the building.

A dozen desks back to back and all the clutter and clatter of

typewriters and paperwork and Secretaries swapping the gossip.

Too many cops to describe and no time to remember them anyway.

But here's one making introductions. About 60 years old. Face

a mix of brick and fat. The Chief of Eureka Police is CITRINE.

Any handshakes and greetings that fit in around the equipment.

BLATTIS tosses his parasol "Don't lose it" and follows BERLIN.

By now they're in an L shaped room with wood benches and bull-

etin board all over the walls. Bullshit everywhere in packing

cases. Dusty Playboy spreads amongst other junk on the boards.

And he benches the aquarium as BERLIN loses the insulated box.

Right now the box contains camera equipment which is unpacked.

A Woman's face around the door. "Los Angeles for Sergeant Ber-

lin." And goodbye BLATTIS as Berlin reaches for the telephone.

CITRINE splits as BERLIN picks up "Hey, Ronzo, good of you to

call." A long phone lead and he continues to unpack equipment.

A cut-out of Popeye The Sailor with fist round a camera on the

wall. Telephone resistance is collapsing and he breaks a smile.

16:  INT.  MORGUE.  COUNTY HOSPITAL.  EUREKA.  DAY.

ROSS has a Vic inhaler up his nostril. An inadequate defense.

A sudden stink slams into his neck muscles. Head and inhaler

travel rearward. He shifts eyes to BERLIN who scans the Bum's

autopsy reports. A PATHOLOGIST comments on his handiwork into

a microphone hanging from the ceiling. "Except as previously

noted, the liver is not remarkable." ROSS doesn't believe it.

He picks up a nicotine-stained left hand. Simultaneously a LAB

TECHNICIAN wants BERLIN to sign in exchange for the picnic box.

He hands the clip-board back and remembers a question for ROSS.

Another fast fix on the Vic and BERLIN chews fresh gum. A need-

le on a weighing machine quivers. "The liver weighs 1420 grams."

17:  INT.  KITCHEN.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  EUREKA.  DUSK.

An explosion of hugs in the kitchen. Everything happens at once.

MARGIE ROSS is slim and dark and still looking "twice as pretty."

She's got compliments for BERLIN too if they can get out of each-

other's arms "You're looking wonderful, John." But greetings are

better performed than described, so I'm leaving it to the actors.

He emerges from the refrigerator wielding a bottle of champagne.

He detours via the kitchen door to shout upstairs. "Hey. Bobby.?"

ROSS fights a difficult cork "You wanna get some glasses, Honey?"

The cork explodes and he goes for glasses but one isn't willing.

And she's already at the fridge and popping a can of diet cola.

18:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

This in huge close-up. Focus hardens on a finger tip. A shock

of light. The focus adjusts and a flash bulb fires again. BER-

LIN moves away from the view-finder. Chewing gum stuck to the

side of the camera returns to his mouth. He activates an auto-

matic rewind. It fills the silence while he heads for a phone.

A lot of paraphernalia and technical type of shit. The bullet-

in board is filling up. Photographs chronicle the hours spent

on the dump. He dials with eyes on the pictures. A dozen cata-

logue discovery of the bra. "This is Mike Blattis/I can't take

your call right now/ If you have a message/You know the sound."

19:  INT.  DUTY ROOM/CORRIDOR/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

A reel to reel tape recorder the size of a refrigerator domin-

ates the room. A black board details day/night/weekend shifts.

T.V. security monitors. A rack of night-sticks. And of course

paperwork. VENABLES crouches over a desk filling something in.

Sure he will and six rolls of film are handed across. "Are you

winning, Sir?" BERLIN smiles and VENABLES follows him out into

the corridor. A couple of Coppers on their way in. One big and

morose looking called BISLEY. The other we've already met. Tay-

lor is a tall balding guy with hazy reddish hair "How you doin?"

BERLIN responds a happy "O.K." with eyes returning to VENABLES.

Apparently little. They arrive in the big room. It's deserted.

A vacuum cleaner starts somewhere but BERLIN isn't hearing it.

BERLIN is already looking. A last question as VENABLES leaves.

20:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAWN.

The atrophied Hand is emersed in some kind of fluid. Index and

second fingers bound with wire just below the upper joint. BER-

LIN reaches for steel pliers. His face remains in close-up for

a nasty "snap" as he cuts a finger off. He's filling a syringe

with the same fluid when ROSS walks in. "Jesus, you still here?"

A newspaper featuring a small photograph and article on Berlin.

Holding the Finger he carefully inserts a hypodermic needle un-

der the wire. Gently shoots in fluid to inflate the finger pad.

The Finger pad is sufficiently restored to try and get a print.

21:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

A slide projector does its stuff on a sheet of card pinned to

the door. Close-up of the Hand and off screen voice of BERLIN.

"Notice anything weird about it?" The answer from ROSS is "No."

A pen moves into frame and BERLIN points to marks on the Hand.

The machine shunts up another slide. Now the back of the Hand.

He walks out of the projection beam and neon light flutters on.

Reaches for a pack of cigarettes and perches on a nearby stool.

BERLIN counts out cigarettes. And destroys them in an ashtray.

ROSS reaches for the paper & thumb-tacks it to the wall "That."

A Zippo opens (sports L.A.P.D. insignia) and BERLIN lights up.

He takes a punishing hit and exhales a lungful across the lab.

Back on his feet BERLIN is about to begin more work on the Hand.

Daftest thing Ross ever heard. BERLIN is poised to make a print.

22:  INT.  STAIRS/LIVING ROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

BERLIN & ROSS are opposite ends of a bed jammed on the stairs.

"Bastards. I gave em a 20 buck tip." Various navigational sug-

gestions from ROSS win them another stair. Plus advice from a

12 year old called BOBBY. "You gotta go left, Dad." ROSS knows

he's gotta go left! Both heave as MARGIE walks out the kitchen.

The house is a zoo of furniture. Bullshit piled up everywhere.

By now she's got the apron off and her coat on. "C'mon, Bobby."

And off they go via a slammed door as the phone starts to ring.

23:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  DAY.

In they stagger. The bed goes down. And BERLIN sprawls on top

of it. Devastated for oxygen. "Alright. That's it. I'm fucked."

BERLIN manages to find air to sit. Reaches for the Ansa Phone.

First call comes from Delaware Roofing vis-a-vis the estimate.

During these proceedings the machine has moved to another call.

24:  INT.  (TELETYPE)/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

And here's part of the "exhumation." CITRINE stares at a tele-

type machine waiting for transmission on Jennifer to complete.

Approximate date of birth/Approximate date of death/ Identity

Unknown. Visible misgivings as he hauls it out and reads. One

or two chairs already on desks. ROSS still at his pawing over

documents with a detective called SERATO. Cigarette smoke and

shirt sleeves. ROSS looks up and catches CITRINE as he passes.

CITRINE continues up the carpet. "Alright, we'll talk about it."

25:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

A florescent glow from a T.V. monitor supplies the only light.

BERLIN vacillates interest between the scanner and the screen.

But CITRINE isn't interested in finger nails. He's staring at

a polystyrene torso of a faceless girl. She wears a brassiere

stuffed with newspaper and a black wig. (Welcome Jennifer Two)

CITRINE stares at the Dummy like he's gonna ask it a question.

He waves a handful of teletype before dumping it on a bench.

On the board is a super-imposed picture of a hand over a wrist.

A question he doesn't need because he hasn't an answer. CITRINE

has an eye on further photographs relevant to the Jennifer case.

Another question he can't answer - and this time he doesn't get

a chance - BISLEY walks in with an apology for the interruption.

Got a face like Humphrey Bogart's mother fucked a different guy.

Bisley has gone but his tension stays. BERLIN unwraps fresh gum.

This is CITRINE's shop and BERLIN isn't gonna row it with him.

He refers to a little bicycle. Vouchered and obviously stolen.

By now CITRINE is at the hinges. A pause before he disappears.

26:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

Melted neon in the streets. A wet mid-town night. Nothing but

sound of windshield wipers and click of a Zippo lighter. ROSS

rides stoic passenger while BERLIN drives with festering eyes.

They stop at a light and a beeper goes as warning to the blind.

BERLIN is worrying at his fingertip on the wheel of the Zippo.

The lights change and off they go and BERLIN waits for a turn.

And by now they've arrived and pulled up on the garage forecourt.

It's indicative of their friendship that ROSS can talk like this.

He quits the car and BERLIN watches him scurry towards a service

shop. Rain beats on the roof and BERLIN looks stubbed out. A lot

of cuts coming up and here are some of them. Runs a hand through

his hair in unconscious frustration. A finger constantly bothers

the Zippo. Eyes towards ROSS who silhouettes in florescent light.

Somewhere in the background the lights change to red. Once again

the beeping sound of traffic-lights speaking to the blind. Maybe

he looks across but that doesn't matter. Something just happens

inside his head he isn't yet quite aware of. Everything in close

up. Big on the Zippo. Big on BERLIN. And he leaps out of the car.

BERLIN sprints through the weather.  A station wagon is still in

the air at the end of an hydraulic jack. Surprise from ROSS and a

MECHANIC as BERLIN arrives. Fuck the fanbelt and listen to this.

Rain beats at the roof and the jack sinks the wagon behind them.

27:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

BERLIN sits at a desk at the end of the room. Nothing here but

a legal pad and a phone. The pad is covered in names & numbers.

Right now he's into a call and this is sounding promising."How

old?" And he writes 26. "How long?" About 6 weeks ago. Hope in

his eyes as he looks across to a woman called ANN. She's doing

what he's doing on a different line "Wait a minute, I specific-

ally said I was looking for a girl?" And all hope over because

Lesley is a boy. But here comes ANN & this might be something?

Sticks a sheet of notes on his desk and he junks the last call.

ROSS in transit grinning from ear to ear. BERLIN interested in

little but his notes and ROSS in nothing but obvious good news.

28:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE/ROAD.  TRINITY FOREST.  DAY.

Mussorgsky is back on a shock cut. Big music and a shattering

landscape. Juniper woods and mountains. Sunlight on fresh fal-

len snow. Somewhere a long way off a car crawls up the valley.

Ross's car bursts into frame and as quickly the bend snatches

it away. An unexpected building in the distance. Victorian at

a glance but probably later. A clock tower and fifty lifeless

windows. The Chevy disappears towards its somber architecture.

29:  EXT.  THE SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY.

Pine trees and slush and parked cars. The Chevrolet swings in

and parks in front of the mansion. Breath in the air and eyes

on the ugly pile as they slam doors and head for its entrance.

30:  INT.  ENTRANCE/RECEPTION.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

BERLIN first with ROSS following. As soon as they hit the ent-

rance they trigger a recorded voice. "YOU ARE NOW AT THE MAIN

ENTRANCE. THERE ARE SIX STEPS." Midway up them with ROSS look-

ing back. "RECEPTION IS THROUGH SWING DOORS AND TO YOUR RIGHT."

31:  INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICER.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

GOODRIDGE is mid-50's with a beard like Abraham Lincoln. Sits

far side of his desk alternating eyes between ROSS and BERLIN.

The latter studies a photograph of a Girl in a file. It's pos-

sible they've found Jennifer Two? "How recent is the picture?"

He doesn't like them but not as much as ROSS doesn't like him.

ROSS could sock him in the crop but the phone rings and he ex-

cuses himself to answer it. Whatever he hears he isn't liking.

32:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

Looking back down a deserted corridor. Someone tried to put sun-

shine on the walls with yellow paint. Somewhere a long way away

there is a sound like children singing. ROSS loathes this joint.

Loathes its silence. Eyes back to BERLIN as he rings a doorbell.

Here come footsteps and the door is opened by HELENA ROBERTSON.

Early 20's and blonde and not immediately beautiful. But delic-

ate features than need no make up and big dark eyes. They look

away for introductions as though she's shy. ROSS & BERLIN grab

glances as they follow in. Neither expected HELENA to be blind.

33:  INT.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

Claustrophobia evaporates instantly. Great views down the val-

ley from every window. Plus a bizarre jumble of furniture and

colors. But no pictures on the walls. No friendly photographs.

Nor any lights. Although the afternoon is shutting down there

isn't a light in the room. ROSS elects to stay at the windows.

BERLIN takes an offered chair. HELENA sits nervously opposite.

Lots of headshake. And lots of silences. "I really don't know."

Possibly the only grin ROSS is going to get out of this place.

A good point. And a point taken. And BERLIN might even say so.

Now another silence overtaken by a low whistle in another room.

A sardonic headshake from ROSS. Well that solves the case then!

BERLIN would but ROSS wouldn't. She leaves and whispers begin.

He thumbs a cluster of cheap busts of composers on an upright.

Negative from BERLIN. Checked it out. Sunday and no one about.

A touch later and the sun is setting. ROSS stands at a window

to watch it go. Watches one or two cars driving away. Watches

a bird sitting outside on the fire-escape. BERLIN's voice can

just about be heard off screen "You said he spoke? Can you re-

member what he said?" ROSS saunters back into HELENA's answer.

Empty teacups and empty notebook. ROSS sits opposite BERLIN.

A clock strikes four somewhere. And BERLIN knows he's lost it.

He takes her hands and HELENA immediately looks uncomfortable.

He examines scars and she stares at him with her useless eyes.

A taut instant between ROSS and BERLIN. BERLIN caught out and

he knows it. ROSS roars in silence "YOU LYING PIG" and writes

in his notebook. The angle switches to see "BERLIN IS A LIAR."

Everyone suddenly on their feet and HELENA gets into a jacket.

He tries to get his notebook under BERLIN's nose.  But BERLIN

isn't looking or listening but following HELENA into her hall.

She opens the door and ROSS is barely through before it slams.

34:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

ROSS baits BERLIN up the corridor. Ridicules in silence while

counting imaginary winnings. Watch my lips! F.I.F.T.Y. HELENA

walks innocent of the pantomime and BERLIN tries to ignore it.

He bells the elevator refusing to acknowledge ROSS's bullshit.

Lips drill a whisper into his ear. "Fifty fucken dollars, O.K."

Meanwhile the elevator arrives triggering a Voice. "YOU ARE NOW

ON THE FOURTH FLOOR." Doors slide open and Christ look at this?

What kind of eye-defect needs glasses like this? Lenses like ei-

ther half of a glass ball.  He's early 30's and decidedly "iffy."

Is he student/staff or what? As he exits they enter staring aft-

er him. As the doors close the MYOPIC turns to stare after them.

35:  INT.  CHEVROLET.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DUSK.

ROSS drives and BERLIN studies Amber's file. "Wanna beer?" No

answer but cans appear anyway from a pack between Ross's legs.

ROSS pops cans and hands one over. But BERLIN doesn't want it.

Snaps fingers "Gimme the lighter." And he does to shut him up.

Does it as he says it. Bye-bye Zippo! BERLIN can't believe it.

An academic question considering the Zippo went down a ravine.

36:  EXT.  CITY DUMP.  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

Gloom congeals around flashlights. A winter mist falling down.

TRIMBLE and Doberman watch as BERLIN goes at it with a shovel.

A dozen graves already dug and he's halfway into another. Des-

pite the cold he sweats in shirt sleeves. Also breathless and

rests to catch his wind. "Don't you have to go to bed?" No he

doesn't. He wants to see the victim. Digging recommences with

TRIMBLE supplying the light. BERLIN suddenly stops. "Get that

lamp down here." White lime. Black fur. They've found the Dog.

BERLIN begins an examination holding a tiny flashlight in his

teeth. Eyes excitedly back to TRIMBLE and gesturing towards a

bag. "That bag there. You find a knife and a paira long-nosed

pliers." TRIMBLE does it relishing the snap of a switch-blade.

BERLIN still busy with the light in his mouth. TRIMBLE pissed

because he can't see what's happening. BERLIN removes a crump-

led bullet from the back of the Labrador's skull. Holds it up

for scrutiny. Small calibre. Badly distorted. "Looks like a 22?"

37:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

LETTERS BIG AS A HOUSE. And Loud. The printer reciprocates as

fast as its mechanics are capable. Details coming in from San

Diego. VICAP Case Number/F.B.I. Case Number/Victim Status/etc

etc. Letters smacking into paper too fast to read. But one de-

tail is repeated constantly and underlined. "Identity Unknown."

Transmission ends and BERLIN hauls at least a yard of homicide

out of the machine. Can't believe what he's looking at. "Jesus.

He hit six." Reads as he walks back into the big room and gets

interrupted by a call. "Miss Robertson. Holding." He heads for

the phone with eyes following ANN "Find Ross for me, will you?"

A hand shoves papers at the edge of his vision. TAYLOR looks a

mite cheesy. "You got a minute for this?" And BERLIN nods sure.

38:  EXT.  COAST ROAD.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  EUREKA.  DAY.

The first shining day of November. Sand dunes and an infinite

stretch of beach. Behind the sea-break is a lagoon and a tiny

harbor.  Berlin's Mercedes descends the coast road towards it.

39:  EXT.  HARBOR.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  EUREKA.  DAY.

Ross's boat is a 35 foot fisherman. Shining brass and varnish.

But like him it's getting on and often grumpy. This last qual-

ity presently evident in both. Engine roaring and ROSS is cov-

ered in oil. BERLIN has to shout above the racket to be heard.

ROSS detours eyes to wave at his Son. "Watch those revs there."

ROSS signals BOBBY to turn off. And the diesel splutters down.

40:  EXT.  QUAY/HARBOR.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  DAY.

Seagulls and sunshine and probably Saturday because the place

is busy. ROSS walks with BERLIN up a wooden quay. Their journ-

ey will take them across a small bridge towards a Marine Shop.

And this is the second time they stop and stare at each other.

Says it with remarkable humility considering he's the "expert."

They arrive at the Chandler's with BERLIN in no mood to smile.

But he doesn't really believe it. And doesn't enjoy saying no.

41:  EXT.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DAY.  (HELICOPTER)

The Mercedes and Music travel north. The latter made sinister

by this landscape. Forest plunging into dark ravines. The sun

colors the mountains red. But most of the valley is in shadow.

42:  EXT.  DRIVE/PARKING.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY.

A high wind in the chimneys. And the view is still from above.

Like someone's looking down from the top of the building. And

maybe someone is? BERLIN parks it and gets out. Stretches and

walks towards the institute. He looks very small from up here.

43:  INT.  GYMNASIUM.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

HELENA plays Elgar in an empty gymnasium. Sunlight streams in

staining the air red. As BERLIN arrives doors on the opposite

wall flap together like somebody just hurried out. Did he see

someone? Perhaps not. The trees outside move a lot of shadows.

Music stands. Vacant chairs. BERLIN takes one to watch her re-

hearse. Realizes just how beautiful she is. And HELENA realiz-

es someone is there. Before she can ask he identifies himself.

But she's already fussing about stuffing sheet music in a bag.

No answer but the answer is no. BERLIN finds her book for her.

44:  INT.  STAIRCASE.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

The gale shouts its head off. The Camera looks down from above.

Nothing to see except the stairwell and a hand on the banister.

Any moment now they turn a corner of the stairs into close-up.

The elevator is parked on this floor with its doors half open.

Despite breathlessness he does. "How often does it break down?"

45:  INT.  ATTIC APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

Gloomy windows and a wardrobe. BERLIN walks in leaving HELENA

at the door. "I sat right there, on the bed." The bed is gone

but why tell her? He checks the wardrobe. Guess what? Hangers.

His smile deteriorates as he realizes she's "staring" at him.

Nothing happening except the wind. Then a smile as she leaves.

And he begins an exploration. Musty bathroom with old-fashion-

ed fixtures. A tap leaking behind shower curtains. Nothing in

the cabinet. Nothing under the sink. Six steps and he is in a

kitchen. Finally finds something worth looking for. Tears the

sack out of a vacuum cleaner. Discovers a knot of hair from a

black dog. Simultaneously the door slams. Shock powers him in-

to the sitting room in time to hear a key turning in the lock.

Hits the door and shouts. Hears footsteps moving rapidly away.

46:  INT.  RECEPTION.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

A huge Christmas poster advertises SHASTA-TRINITY ARTS/CRAFTS.

HELENA sits in the deserted foyer reading Braille. The volume

is the size of a phone directory. BERLIN appears via the main

entrance. Windswept and wasted and surprised she's still here.

Hellava wind that turns a key! But he says nothing. Takes the

book while she gets into her coat. She's obviously made an ef-

fort. A change of clothes and her hair pinned up. But she has

got the sweater on inside out and the label is under her chin.

By now they're at the doors with BERLIN escorting her through.

Red brick walls and help yourself to salad. All but empty and

their food is yet to arrive. BERLIN is clearly having a tough

time with the conversation. Basically because there isn't any.

HELENA sits frozen like she's waiting for results of an X-ray.

And he likes what he's looking at. And maybe HELENA senses it.

His attention is temporarily elsewhere. A Lunch Party just arr-

ived. It's clear GOODRIDGE is profoundly unhappy to see BERLIN.

48:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY.

Big pines either side of the driveway. The Camera sits in the

back more interested in the approaching institute than BERLIN.

Pulls into a parking spot and the next sound is the hand brake.

49:  EXT/INT.  FIRE ESCAPE/APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

BERLIN looks down from the fire escape. For the first time the

place sounds busy. Cars arriving and doors slamming. Voices of

Students coming back from the weekend. "Why were you out there?"

HELENA waits inside and didn't realize he was back in the room.

Time to go and both know it. Stale shadows and growing silence.

And his eyes are searching her so hard she must be aware of it.

The silence is almost uncomfortable. BERLIN continues to stare.

50:  EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET.  CITY OF EUREKA.  DAY.

Pretty houses in a pretty little street. Hills in the back and

sunshine out front. BERLIN pulls up in his Mercedes and does a

bit of tie adjusting as he walks up a path and hits the chimes.

This could only be MRS CITRINE. A budget smile and he's inside.

51:  INT.  "STUDIO"/CONSERVATORY.  HOUSE.  DAY.

Dozens of repulsive paintings.  A truly repulsive painting "By

Numbers" of the Mona Lisa in progress. The color codes are com-

pletely fucked up. CITRINE wears a wooly hat and hates walking

on crutches. BERLIN picked a bad day to come in here with this.

52:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

BERLIN arrives at the station in the same mood he left Citrine.

Heads for his room and runs into ROSS's stare. Problems on his

plate too. He sits at his desk looking uncharacteristically an-

xious. What ever he's drinking isn't tea. He finds a bottle of

J&B in a drawer and walks toward Berlin's freshly slammed door.

52:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The lab is stuffed with junk waiting his attention. (Dozens of

common things made sinister by their labels and plastic sacks).

ROSS delivers a dose of Scotch in a plastic cup. Pours himself

another. Leans on a bench and gets into the pissed-off silence.

He almost does the whiskey but reaches for chewing gum instead.

He looks at ROSS like what-are-you-looking-at-me-like-that-for?

SERATO walks in with a cigarette plugged into his ashen kisser.

54:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

This room and the interrogation room are linked with a one-way

mirror. BERLIN looks through munching gum. EMERSON is 25 years

old and many pounds of vexed flesh. But something about her ex-

pression expects apology. SERATO paces the place chain-smoking.

ROSS listens devastated as the EXPERT explains his lousy chart.

For a moment there is an intense trust between ROSS and BERLIN.

Alright fuck it. Let's go for broke. BERLIN grabs the read out.

Fueled on residual anger he vanishes out the door. ROSS is fir-

st at the mirror to see him reappear in the interrogation room.

55:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The polygraph machine looks like state of the art. A table and

two chairs. BERLIN takes one and sits opposite EMERSON. She at-

tempts a smile but he kills it with the intensity of his stare.

And the time is his. He knows what he's doing. And she doesn't.

All he's doing is telling her truth. Up to her to interpret it.

A tongue slides through the lipstick like something being born.

And suddenly the only thing holding her chops up is Max Factor.

He's got her on the roll now and all it needs is one more push.

The quivering lip and flooding eyes amalgamate into a horrible

sort of groan. She's bellied up and anxious to spill her beans.

BERLIN better get through the door fast because he might laugh.

56:  EXT.  ROSS'S BOAT.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  EUREKA.  DAY.

A wave atomizes and comes down like silver champagne. HELENA &

BERLIN hang on the prow of the boat with the ocean rushing bel-

ow. Another wave and more spray for HELENA. She turns like get-

ting sea in your face is the best invention ever. Oilskins sat-

urated and her hair streaming and she knows he's loving it too.

57:  INT.  WHEELHOUSE.  BOAT.  DAY.

Sunshine & spray on the windshield. ROSS at the wheel with MAR-

GIE next to him. Eyes on BERLIN & HELENA playing like children.

Stairs descend to a cabin and ROSS interrupts himself to shout.

BOBBY clatters up the stairs clutching a six pack of Budweiser.

BOBBY exits the wheelhouse and walks their eyes back to HELENA.

58:  EXT.  FISHING DECK ABOVE WHEELHOUSE.  BOAT.  DAY.

Wind over and sea content and anchored about a mile from shore.

Smoke from a dying barbecue and Nat King Cole croons "Unforget-

able." ROSS sports shades and sits staring down the line. Some-

one plays lousy guitar and he shifts eyes into the well of the

boat. HELENA teaches BOBBY to play chords. Hardly worth the ef-

fort but they're enjoying it. BERLIN looks down from the oppos-

ite side of the deck. His gaze interrupted by MARGIE "You want

another Coke, honey?" Sure he does and her eyes travel to ROSS.

In code so BERLIN won't understand. But he and ROSS swap grins.

MARGIE climbs the stairs with drinks and drinks a beer herself.

Popped cans change the subject. This seems like a question BER-

LIN doesn't really want to ask & MARGIE doesn't want to answer.

Clearly a sensitive subject and ROSS decides the truth is best.

The joke doesn't reach BERLIN. MARGIE's hand is on his shoulder.

And she heads for the lower deck. A sweet smile as she descends.

And also playing the guitar "In My Life." And she does it well.

Slow banging of something swaying. And this exchange goes slow.

A bleeper goes on one of the lines and ROSS twists in his seat.

And he winds in yet another three quarters of a pound Mackerel.

ROSS dexterously extracts the hook with serious eyes on BERLIN.

59:  EXT.  CAR PARK AT BEACH.  DUSK.

Darkness in about an hour. Wide over the car park. Sand dunes

surround it. Practically deserted of cars. Headlights snap on

focusing attention on a station wagon exchange of good-byes.

Silhouettes with exaggerated shadows walk across the car park.

The angle changes and is closer now. HELENA has taken his arm.

BERLIN is more amused than annoyed. They arrive at the car and

his suggestion is met with an appropriate response from HELENA.

"I can't drive a car." Doesn't like cars. But he's not hearing.

No lady ever had a driving lesson like this before. BERLIN all

but sits in her seat. Arm on the back of it. Hand on the wheel.

For a split second they're doing 60. Now they're doing about 4.

The Mercedes spirals in widening circles. Instructions and enc-

ouragement from BERLIN .. O.K. .. Straight now .. The Mercedes

straightens and heads through the dunes. "It's a big car park?"

HELENA may like driving but she doesn't like the sound of that.

Headlights behind them approach quickly. Disappear and reappear

as they follow the geography of the dunes. BERLIN only now bec-

omes aware of them. one more dip and they slam in. Her anxiety

is misinterpreted. He takes the wheel. No problem. Let him pass.

The vehicle is right up behind them. As it overtakes HELENA is

scared. And still scared even though BERLIN has stopped the car.

Just time to see tail lights of a van disappearing in the gloom.

60: INT.  LIVING ROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

Rain lashes the windows. But a lot of improvements inside. New

paint and now carpet. Not a lot of furniture but it looks nice

enough. There's even a fire in the grate. BERLIN sits at a tab-

le on the phone. The Voice he's hearing will [talk in brackets]

Heads for a sofa. Paperback of "Hamlet." TV on without sound.

Christmas ads interrupt the movie. BERLIN sighs in frustration.

Starts doodling on the paperback. Shakespeare acquires glasses.

61:  INT.  CHIEF'S OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

A painting of Ronald Reagan fills the screen. So awful it's al-

most impressive. Next to it is a formal photograph of the City

Mayor (Mr Heineman) . BERLIN continues to wait with eyes switch-

ing to a picture of the Taj Mahal. "I love to paint." He turns

as CITRINE walks in. "It's not great art, but I change the col-

ors." Heads for his desk and sits dispensing with the crutches.

He floats the letter across the desk and hears the explanation.

CITRINE rubs his forehead in preparation to change the subject,

If there was any argument to be had BERLIN would be arguing it.

62:  EXT.  CITY STREET.  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

Colored lights strung across the street. Symptoms of Christmas

everywhere. Store windows full of trashy decorations and every-

thing soluable in mist. ROSS and BERLIN develop out of it like

Polaroids. Their destination is a dingy looking downstairs bar.

63:  INT.  "ANGELA'S BAR."  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

This is the local Copper's bar. It's full of cigarette smoke &

Coppers. Laughter & sugar music. "I'll Be Seeing You." "Sentim-

ental Journey." Either one of these is playing.  Familiar Faces

among those drinking at the bar. The forty-two-year-old BLONDE

serving them is busy. She is in possession of very big breasts.

ROSS pokes VENABLES a surreptitious 20 with eyes on the BLONDE.

Right now she's far end of the bar delivering a beer to BISLEY.

TAYLOR gets a last cough out of a cigarette before stubbing it.

And he's already gathered his shit and halfway into his jacket.

BERLIN makes a gesture he'd have trouble understanding himself.

By now TAYLOR is moving through the crush of faces behind them.

And just that one moment of insanity as BERLIN downs it in one.

64:  INT.  BOOTH.  "ANGELA'S BAR."  NIGHT.

A shabby booth with black and whites of the two unrecognizable

Celebrities who ate here. Hamburgers are almost over and a bot-

tle of wine almost drunk. Both look tanked and especially ROSS.

Waving his empty at the bar ROSS communicates need for another.

65:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

Very late and the only light comes from coloured bulbs pulsing

on a Christmas tree. Apparent BERLIN has had too much to drink.

Makes it to his desk and shuffles at the messages. One is just

about important enough to get a close-up. "TIME 18:52: SUBJECT:

A MAN CALLED DAN STANLEY TELEPHONED:  SAYS THERE ARE 109 JOHNS

WITH VOLKSWAGEN VANS IN BAY AREA: WILL TELETYPE INFO THIS P.M."

66:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

BERLIN finishes typing something. Tears it out and seals it in

an envelope. Shirt sleeves and yawns. He slumps in the chair &

stares at "Jennifer 8." Fuck this for a Friday night. He's had

enough of it. Grabs several envelopes and turns out the lights.

67:  INT.  ADMIN/OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

BERLIN emerges from one office and heads for another. J.K. Tay-

lor on the door. Delivers the envelope and an his way out when

something detains him. Lights on the tree strobe through venit-

ian blinds. Illuminate bits and pieces of rattan. Plus a board

covered in Christmas cards and a pair of steel filing cabinets.

Maybe motivated by the booze? But a desk drawer is open almost

before he realizes it and he searches for a key. Nothing but a

bunch of business cards and family snaps. Taylor with his Moth-

er Taylor with his Sister (red hair like him) and Taylor with

his Dog. The drawer slams and one underneath opens.  Same flot-

sam of personal junk. Scotch Tape and paper clips and more bus-

iness cards. A bottle of tablets and salad of loose ammo. Fuck

all else and he closes the drawer. But what's this? A cane let-

ter rack at the rear of the desk where he finds a pair of keys.

Excitement lasts as long as it takes to try them. Don't fit ei-

ther lock. Now he's staring at the shadows with nothing moving

but thoughts. A few moments more and he's heading for the door.

68:  INT.  OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

Massive close-up of the lock. A weird looking tool goes in and

another follows it. This bastard ain't easy even for an expert.

The frame widens to reveal BERLIN. He shuffles picks in a wall-

et on top of the cabinet. Was that a noise somewhere? He stops

to listen. wipes cold sweat away. Only thieves and foxes about.

A final twist and the lock delivers. Several dozen manilla col-

ored files from which to choose. A pair of folders titled Jenn-

ifer travel to the desk. The first is full of press-cuttings &

some gruesome looking snaps. Next file and this one looks more

interesting? A notebook full of random questions/answers/comm-

ents. A list of ships and sailing times. "MUST FOLLOW THIS UP"

Underlined twice. "CAN'T OVER ESTIMATE IMPORTANCE." Also under-

lined. Lists of numbers. Street numbers? Vehicle numbers? What-

ever they might be is history because the neon just flashed on.

TAYLOR stands in the doorway. The surprise is mutual. The play

one-sided. This is already TAYLOR's game. Smokes his cigarette.

BERLIN is up to elbows in the jam jar and up to him to explain.

He gestures to the right one. BERLIN feels about 2 inches tall.

As he exits he tosses a bunch of keys. They crash uselessly on-

to the desk. BERLIN looks like he couldn't get a fuck with mud.

69:  EXT.  ROAD.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DAY.

The mood is low as it goes. And so is the angle. Ultra low beh-

ind the car. Just road and a blur of tires. The frame widens &

the Mercedes fills it. Brake lights on as it descends the hill.

70:  INT.  TRINITY VALLEY/ROAD.  DAY.

BERLIN in big close-up. His face like the Music. Here come the

gates of the Institute. As he turns in he stamps the brakes. A

van veers past him. Nothing special about it except it's a V.W.

He watches it vanish up the hill with other things on his mind.

71:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

Christmas vacations and the building sounds deserted. BERLIN's

foot steps might be the only sound in the place. They stop and

a bell rings. Ho tries to assemble sox* kind of appropriate ex-

pression. But as soon as she opens the door it's obsolete. HEL-

ENA looks pretty as flowers & delighted he's here. She reaches

for his hands. And every new second makes it a tougher goodbye.

72:  INT.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

Oh Jesus look at this. She prepared him a surprise dinner. And

she looks so happy about it. A pathetic little table with cand-

les and Forget-Me-Nots and can of Diet Coke by his plate. He's

barely through the door and goodbye is already in deep trouble.

BERLIN's face gets ready for something he doesn't say. Why did

she have to do this? And why didn't he tell her over the phone?

73:  INT.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

A Schubert Sonata in the background. Candles low and the atmos-

phere junk. Evening already in the room and it feels like time

to go. But first he's gotta toll her something he doesn't want

to hear himself. "Would you like me to make some fresh coffee?"

She stands and collects the cups and gets halfway with a smile.

74:  INT. KITCHEN.  APARTMENT.  DUSK.

A hiss of running water. Close on the kettle. Close on the tap.

She knows what he's going to say. And now she's alone her face

doesn't mask her feelings. She's missing him already. But does-

n't know why. Simply knows she doesn't want him to say goodbye.

She reaches high into a cupboard. Her shirt stretches over her

breasts. Christ this girl has a great figure. Carting hair out

of her eyes she returns to the sink. For an instant she's star-

ing out of the window and right into somebody's face. Tall and

weird looking. But just a glimpse before he moves rapidly away.

75:  INT.  APARTMENT.  DUSK.

BERLIN has moved to the sofa. A shaft of dead sunlight crosses

the apartment. HELENA comes in making a brave face of it. Does-

n't realize he's moved. "I'm here, Helena." And she smiles and

changes direction. Puts the coffee tray on a table in front of

him. No music now and all sounds in close-up. Close on the lip

of the coffee pot as she pours. Close on the cup she gives him.

Everything close in Helena's world or her world wouldn't exist.

76:  EXT.  (P.O.V. FROM FIRE ESCAPE)  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

Not a lot to look at but the man is looking in. From his P.O.V.

he's fortunate. HELENA sits facing him but BERLIN has his back

to the window. This sort of surveillance is always ominous and

here is no exception. BERLIN's explanation comes with occasion-

al use of hands. HELENA suddenly smiles so it can't be all bad.

They stand and BERLIN reaches for his coat. HELENA crosses the

room. Finds her Forget-Me-Nots and now they're his at the door.

As he takes them he takes her hand. Kisses her finger tips and

can't avoid embracing her. They kiss like awkward kids bumping

noses. Finally part and disappear into the dark of the hallway.

77:  INT.  ELEVATOR/CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

BERLIN is already in the elevator. Resists doors determined to

separate them. They shunt in and out perpetually informing him

he's on the 4th floor. "I'll call, O.K." She nods and releases

his hand. He watches her walk all the way back up the corridor.

78:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  TRINITY VALLEY.  NIGHT.

Headlights follow the meandering road. Another bend and lights

in the distance. In seconds he's passing the Diner. Still open

with cars out front including the white Volkswagen that nearly

busted his fender. He's not gonna stop. Then decides to. Makes

a U and pulls in. Parks a couple of vehicles away from the van.

79:  INT.  KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM.  APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

HELENA finishes the dishes. Stacks a last plate and closes the

cupboard. Heads back into the living room. Something about the

apartment doesn't sound right? She follows the noise through a

door into a bedroom. Curtains dance in the darkness and behind

them she finds a half open window. Curious because she doesn't

remember leaving it open? Secures it and silences the icy wind.

80:  EXT.  VOLKSWAGEN VAN/CAR PARK.  DINER.  NIGHT.

BERLIN checks the driver's door. Locked and he explores with a

pencil-flashlight. Moves to a slide door at the side. Simultan-

eously the door to the Diner opens releasing a quartet of midd-

le-aged Drunks. He dissolves while they bullshit around. Laugh-

ter in chill air. The Comedian of the night keeps himself amus-

ed. Jokes about getting into the wrong car with the wrong wife.

BERLIN isn't laughing "C'mon, you drunken fuck. Get outta here."

81:  INT/EXT.  VOLKSWAGEN VAN/CAR PARK.  DINER.  NIGHT.

A slide door rolls open and BERLIN peers in. Full of furniture

and cardboard crates stenciled "TRINITY INSTITUTE - CRAFT DEPT."

Worth the try but forget it. This bastard obviously has legit-

imate business at the institute. Takes a last poke around with

the light. Spots something red. A cigarette butt caked in lip-

stick. But what's this white stuff? Some kind of powder spills

from a capsule crushed in the door rails. He picks it up for a

look and gets a bad one from behind! "Whatta you doing, Mister?"

BERLIN finds himself facing an irate looking Woman in her 20's.

A lot of red hair and freckles. But definitely more frightened

than angry. His Police Department badge is an instant sedative.

Gives her some crap about thefts from vehicles round here. She

should keep her doors locked. She smiles and thought they were.

She hands it across and he inspects it coz that's what cops do.

Hands the license back and is already heading for his Mercedes.

82:  INT.  BATHROOM/LIVING ROOM.  APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

If there's moonlight that's the only light. Nothing to see but

a pair of large taps. Nothing to hear but a bath filling. Then

something starts bleeping. It's a liquid-level-indicator activ-

ated by rising water. A hand searches for taps. Shuts them off

and silences the indicator. The frame expands to reveal HELENA.

She moves to a hand basin. Finds a brush and fixes hair. Finds

a clip and pins it up. Close as she kicks off shoes. Pantyhose

descend on top of them. Walks into the living room unbuttoning

her shirt. Vanishes into the bedroom and the Camera waits. Ret-

urns with towels and the Camera follows back into the bathroom.

A creaking hinge as she closes the door. A dressing gown hangs

on a hook. She reaches for it and turns and virtually bumps in-

to the Sonovabitch. Dressed in black and stealthy as a cat. He

retreats a pace deeper into the darkness. Just enough light to

see he wears glasses. And just enough light to see her undress.

HELENA unzips her skirt. Slides it down her lags. Drapes it on

a chair. Removes her shirt and hangs it on the back. She wears

a white brassiere and panties. And no apologies for repetition.

This is a fantastic body. She checks water temperature. Either

too hot or too cold. Either way a tap goes on. Now she reaches

behind her back. Unclips her bra. Gets hit with dazzling light.

The Intruder is taking photographs. And if this is his turn-on

he's in paradise. She stands in front of him in total oblivion.

Her panties join clothes on the chair. Nov she's naked and now

another picture. Again the bathroom detonates with white light.

His face is concealed by the camera. But this bastard is about

to run out of luck. Moves in as she silences the tap. Suddenly

a lot of silence about. HELENA twists in panic. She just heard

something? Didn't she just hear something? Is somebody in here?

Fear kills her scream. She hits at the darkness. But he's gone.

83:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

Big close on telephone ringing. No one home except the machine

and Camera. The former answers on behalf of Berlin [John, it's

me .. please call me .. I left two messages at the police stat-

ion .. they said you weren't there .. please, please, call me].

The camera moves on. Breakfast remains on the table. Newspaper

still in its wraps. Out the window a bonfire rages in the yard.

84:  EXT.  YARD.  HOUSE.  DAY.

BERLIN clears rubbish from the garage. Grime and sweat and the

effort's got him breathless. Heaves another armful on the fire.

The phone starts ringing again. This time he decides to answer.

85:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

BERLIN in a hurry to get there. Footsteps tell the story. Fast

up a corridor and through a door. Faces look as he crosses the

department. SECRETARIES and BISLEY and ROSS. But only one face

of interest. TAYLOR turns halfway through lighting a cigarette.

"Are you outta your fucken mind?" TAYLOR says nothing. "If any-

thing happens to that girl, I'm gonna break your fucking back."

A question practically every expression in the place is asking.

His indifference inflames BERLIN. Smashes the newspaper at him.

Now the volume is going up. Now the whole department is silent.

"Everyone" means ROSS. BERLIN looks at him. And his gaze hurts.

His cigarette is already stubbed and he's already walking away.

A big mistake Mister Taylor. Mister Berlin suddenly turns into

Harrison Ford. TAYLOR slams into filing cabinets right next to

the Christmas tree. Gets BERLIN's forearm under his throat and

fucking lucky not to get the knuckles in his gut. Both men are

heaving. No volume necessary in this room of paralyzed silence.

BERLIN moves away and the silence is brutal. Nothing happening

but bad vibes. ROSS and BERLIN exchange glances, And this shit

is really bad. BERLIN vanishes into his lab and the door slams.

86:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

BERLIN and his Dummy wearing a bra and his photographs and his

rage are all alone. And that's how they wanna be. But the door

opens and here is ROSS. Have to be a friend to survive in here.

And as long as you like evaporates before ROSS can speak again.

BERLIN is drinking whisky. Sticks another slug in the cup. Now

realizes whose bottle this is. Slams it somewhere on the bench.

Ross gets the kind of smile a smart guy wouldn't give an idiot.

His hand has found the switch-blade. A nasty click as it opens.

BERLIN puts the knife in his Dummy. If she's alive. She's dead.

This atmosphere would stretch any friendship to breaking point.

There are tough eyes to look into. And ROSS finally looks away.

87:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE.  COUNTRY ROAD.  DAY.

Wide over the countryside. The car is a long way off. A pretty

magic looking dawn. Cows on hills and mist in the hollows. The

Mercedes finally arrives. Up the track and into the (refurbish-

ed) garage. Engine off and little but a sound of singing birds.

88:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

HELENA sits on the sofa. She's a lousy liar and having a tough

time with the phone " .. my aunt called twice .. well, soon, I

hope so .. right now, I'm scared to be there .. who? .. just a

second .. O.K. .. just a second.. Goodridge wants the number?"

She seeks decision from BERLIN who doesn't want him to have it.

And that's it except for "Goodbyes." He takes the phone and re-

places it. Her expression is a toss up between guilt & anxiety.

Only thing he fails to mention is which guy he's talking about.

Anyway the subject is already changed. He notices tapes in her

bag. "Would you like me to put your music on?" No, she doesn't

want music. O.K. He's gonna light the fire and make them lunch.

99:  EXT.  WOODSHED.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

BERLIN is splitting logs and HELENA is sitting an a step "watch-

ing" him. She's looking almost happy with only worry in the way.

A log tangents off. BERLIN retrieves it. Tosses it in a barrow.

A distant owl hoots. She knows he's smiling. She's smiling too.

90:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

The Music is Puccini. Part one/Act two/The Humming Chorus from

Madam Butterfly. Giant close of the spinning cassette. The Cam-

era remains close as it explores the room. Candle light & fire-

light. Along a mantlepiece. Eleven thirty-five on a clock. Two

Christmas cards. Several photographs from the happy years. One

a picture of Ross & Berlin in uniform. Another features Berlin

with his arm around a beautiful young lady with long dark hair.

For a moment it could be Helena? But the Camera's already gone.

HELENA cuddles knees in the corner of a sofa. Looks considerab-

ly more relaxed. But there's a tension here and both are aware

of it. Stifled yawns. She stares at him and BERLIN stares back.

A billion people in love have been through this. It's bed-time.

[A suggestion of Berlin's bed to be is heaped in pillows/blank-

ets at the end of the couch.] "Come on, I'll take you up there."

She finds his hand and stands. The Music follows them upstairs.

91:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

Moonlight through the windows. They are silhouettes. They want

to embrace but in a situation like this a bedroom is the worst

place to be. No sound except the Music. And what's anyone supp-

osed to say? This atmosphere is about kissing and nothing more.

Christ hear this Music. A sweet pulse of Puccini. Big close of

lips meeting in moonlight. Now in each other's arms. They kiss.

And then they're kissing. And nothing else is happening in the

whole fucking universe except a telephone just started to ring.

Still ringing. Still kissing. Somebody has got to give in. The

phone finally gets answered. The voice at the end isn't expect-

ed. But BERLIN sounds pleased to hear it. It seems one problem

got solved. "I gotta tell you, Margie. You are Mrs Santa Claus."

92:  INT/EXT.  KITCHEN/REAR ENTRANCE.  ROSS'S HOUSE.  DAY.

Is Ross throwing a party or opening a bar? Crates of booze and

stack upon stack of beer. A bit of "where do you want it?" act-

ing from BERLIN as he staggers in with a delivery of Bud. ROSS

makes room on a table. Rips a beer out the plastic and pops it.

Swallowing beer ROSS exits the back door with BERLIN following.

The wagon waits outside with a few crates left to unload, BER-

LIN heads for his Mercedes with ROSS calling after him. "John.

Here." Pulls a six pack from his supplies and throws it across.

93:  INT.  BEDROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY.

The Girls prepare for festivity. They got a full length mirror.

A wardrobe of dresses. A menu of shoes, What they do with them

in this scene is their affair. Right now MARGIE's holding some

blue number in front of HELENA."It's blue silk. You like blue?"

She slings the dress on the bed. It joins a pile of rehearsals.

Moves deeper into her dresses and HELENA appears in the mirror.

She pirouettes with black sequins. "What do you think of black?"

Evidently not much and MARGIE is getting short of alternatives.

She emerges from the wardrobe with red satin high heeled shoes.

HELENA is excited to try them out. The experiment is a success.

94:  EXT.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

The Ross residence looks like an ad for J&B. Warm yellow light

from the windows. Holly wreath on the front door. The Mercedes

pulls up and BERLIN gets out with his bag and suit on a hanger.

A hard wind around the house. He walks inside without knocking.

95:  INT.  DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

The den looks like a little museum. Walls decorated with Civil

War memorabilia. One wall occupied by a cabinet of modern guns.

ROSS looks like Roy Rogers trying to look like Fred Astaire. A

powder blue evening suit. Ho dumps ice in a barrel full of Bud-

wieser and BERLIN produces a couple of presents. "This is from

Helena. And this is from me." The first obviously a music tape.

ROSS holds it to his ear. "Sounds like Frank Sinatra?" And the

second a bottle of (Ross tears the wrappings off) Chivas Regal!

But he's already lost BERLIN's attention. MARGIE walks in with

HELENA. Jesus what have you done to her? Bright red lipstick &

jet black mascara and dress made of blood red sequins. Sexy it

is but her it isn't. She looks like one of those big tit dopes

from Tennessee. She also looks like 37 million dollars. Christ

that smile works with paint. An appraisal comes from ROSS "Wow."

96:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

The whole house is going around in a haze of booze and colored

lights and laughter. Buddy Holly supplies the music "True Love

Ways" and ROSS is a victim of the nostalgia. Dances close with

MARGIE. Among the kaleidoscope of passing couples are HELENA &

BERLIN. Eyes closed and oblivious of everything but each other.

But someone is staring at them. About forty years old with big

hands. Too old for acne but the skin is bad. Got a scar on his

cheek like a ladder in a stocking. He continues to stare until

the dancers separate. Music ends and he's already in the crowd.

BERLIN arrives with a whisper for MARGIE and next thing HELENA

is on her arm heading for the stairs. Obviously a "ladies room"

run. Everly Brothers next record up and SERATO appears through

the crush. Spots ROSS who wants to know "What happened to you?"

"How long have you got?" "One big drink." And they head for it.

This last question to ROSS who delivers a typically large shot.

And he pushes off to see his wife. BERLIN looks around worried.

97:  INT.  BATHROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

MARGIE fixes HELENA's lips. Big on the lipstick. Another layer

of magenta is going on "Are you sure I look O.K." Her question

interrupts the Revlon "You're the prettiest girl here by about

two hundred per cent." MARGIE moves in again for the lower lip.

Perhaps she is a tiny bit tipsy? MARGIE smiles and says "Press."

A knock on the door. "Come in" and BOBBY sticks his head inside.

She turns to the mirror in exasperation and mends her own face.

INT.  LIVING ROOM/DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

A pause in the Music amplifies conversation. Bullshit and beer

and everyone talking about nothing. BOBBY leads HELENA through

the row. Can't find Berlin and now they're in the den. The ser-

ious Guzzlers have made it base. Everyone talking and everyone

lying but no Berlin and BOBBY is about to make a major mistake.

Her protest is absorbed in sound. And anyway he's already gone.

At once she is vulnerable. Doesn't know if she's staring at the

back of a head or straight into someone's face. "Didn't we meet

somewhere?" The question comes from the man with the scar. He's

drunk as a dog and already got a tattooed hand around her waist.

Trash aftershave and lousy breath and clearly the answer is no.

Willy Nelson starts to sing. And HELENA attempts to break away.

HELENA finds the top of a couch. Holds it like a raft of secur-

ity. But where ever she goes this frightful mouth is following.

She navigates the back of the sofa. Collides with somebody and

apologizes. "I'm sorry. Is anyone sitting there?" Enough ambiv-

alence in the question for the guy not to know she's blind. No.

No one sitting there. Simultaneously a pair of middle-age crew

cuts occupy the sofa. A second later HELENA sits bang into one

of the laps. Spilt drinks and surprise all round. Pleasant sur-

prise for the victim. He's a lecherous looking old bastard and

Helena's dress rides up for a damned good view of the lingerie.

Every humiliation there is. However HELENA gets out of this is

however she achieves it. But by the time she does she's crying.

99:  INT.  HALLWAY/STAIRS.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

A calm spot between kitchen & stairs. In the background Guests

raid the kitchen for food. BERLIN looks like he should be smok-

ing a cigarette. At last MARGIE comes downstairs with the news.

ROSS already arrived. BERLIN looks desolate. She can't go back.

ROSS watches him walk upstairs. His eyes an assessment of this

absurd relationship. "All sorts of people fall in love, Darlin."

100:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

A wedge of light as BERLIN walks in. Then moonlight again. HEL-

ENA sits at the edge of a single bed. Hair a wreck and mascara

streaks down her face. He sits identifying himself with an emb-

race. Clears the hair from her eyes and kisses where the tears

were. "It was an accident .. everyone has accidents." Whatever

he said would be the wrong thing to say. Because he doesn't un-

derstand. And her only explanation of this misery is new tears.

Gently he reaches down and takes off her shoos "You don't have

to dress like this for me." And suddenly the mood is different.

He is amongst her tears. Kissing her mouth. Already undressing

her. Her dress glides up. Silk stockings. He unclips them. She

feels his hands drift down her legs. Hears the zip opening her

dress. She returns his desire and helps him with her brassiere.

He kisses her breasts and by now the Camera's too close to see.

101:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

HELENA asleep in BERLIN's arms. Just the worry of the wind. He

kisses her and slips out of bed and everything slams into MASS-

IVE CLOSE-UP. PLUS A MASSIVE AMPLIFICATION OF SOUND. THE SLIDE

SNAPS BACK ON A 9 MILL BERETTA. THE MAGAZINE SHUNTS OUT. SLUGS

LOADED AND MAG BACK IN. THE SLIDE TRAVELS FORWARD BIG AS A CAR.

BERLIN is fully dressed. Geared up for work. Black leather glo-

ves and black leather jacket. Shoves the Beretta into his belt.

From somewhere a very soft sound of Christmas carols drifts in.

102:  INT.  STAIRS/LIVING ROOM/DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

This is deep past midnight, The house is quiet and gone to bed.

Fallout from the party everywhere. Still that distant sound of

carols. BERLIN dumps his bag and walks into the den. Just dark-

ness and the forgotten tape machine. Flips on a lamp and tries

to open the gun cabinet. Still trying when startled by a voice.

BERLIN swings round in surprise. ROSS is half asleep on a sofa.

"Silent Night. Holy Night" and about two inches of Chivas left.

BERLIN sticks a foot on a table. Pulls a .25 Walther automatic

from an ankle holster. Ejects the mag and clicks out the slugs.

ROSS unlocks a cabinet and BERLIN is about to load the Glasers.

ROSS selects a 12 gauge Winchester and rams the mechanism open.

ROSS is stuffing solid lead "car killers" into the pump action.

103:  EXT.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

This is probably a crane shot. A gale works up the valley. The

institute is in total darkness. Not a vehicle out front. Not a

sound except the marauding wind. Ross's Chevrolet is concealed

amongst trees. Been here long enough to allow slow flurries to

accumulate. It stares towards the building maybe 75 yards away.

104:  INT.  CHEVROLET SEDAN.  NIGHT.

BERLIN wears a black wool hat. ROSS a big black overcoat. Both

got shit frozen out of them. A bottle available and anyone who

wants a slug better help himself. Plus sleet on the windshield

and a lot of stale time. BERLIN asks what time it is? And ROSS

takes a heave on the booze and waits for about a week to go by.

Yawns do a circuit. ROSS flops in his seat and the angle chang-

es. The view from the rear covers windscreen and back of heads.

A star-light on the windshield. Distant and nobody seen it yet.

Urgency snaps him into close-up. Big noise as wipers clear the

screen. "I thought I saw a light?" BERLIN stares at the instit-

ute through small binoculars. "There. Flashlight went right ac-

ross those windows!" Instant excitement as the adrenalin pumps

in. "Fourth floor. See it? He's fucken in there!" And suddenly

everything including super-sinister Music is happening at once.

105:  EXT.  CHEVROLET.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

Pines singing as the gale tears into them. Clutching his Winch-

ester ROSS opens the trunk. A dim light and a fluster of equip-

ment. BERLIN sorts out a pair of radios. Selects a channel and

ROSS whispers "What are you on?" ("local Tac.") Here come huge

12 cell flashlights and the intense whispers continue. "Local?"

O.K. it's channel 4 and copy? And they're already on their way.

106:  EXT.  BACK OF BUILDING.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

The storm bullies its way around the building. Lights approach

quickly. But one of them is already fading. It belongs to ROSS.

This fucker's got about 5 minutes in it. And whatever the plan

was it just got changed. BERLIN looks around in apprehension -

going in there alone ain't no joy - his flashlight ascends the

fire escape. And there it is 2 floors up. A half opened window.

Takes off up the stairs. ROSS watches him vanish. (Waiting out

here ain't so tasty either.) The wind rages in nearby trees. A

door slams repeatedly somewhere a long way away. [Ross?] "10/2"

[I'm going in.] Big on ROSS and the radio. "You take care, Bro."

107:  INT.  REAR STAIRWELL.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

BERLIN climbs through the window. Drops down and waits to orien-

tate himself. He's on a small landing midway between flights of

stairs. Different kinds of noises in here. One hundred per cent

more sinister. "Ross. Ross? You hearing me?" [10/2]. "I'm going

upstairs." Snaps the safety-catch on his Beretta. And it sounds

ominous. Every shadow in this place is animated with foreboding.

108:  INT.  STAIRWELL/CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

Looking down the stairwell. The light comes up. BERLIN arrives

on another floor. Hard to sweat in here but he's doing it. His

progress is distinctly cautious. A harsh wind rockets down the

stairs flapping a pair of owing doors. BERLIN eases through in-

to the corridor. At its far end is the elevator. He travels to-

wards it in an eerie piston of light. [John? What's happening?]

109:  EXT.  REAR OF INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

ROSS has moved into the shelter of a wall. Sleet passes almost

horizontally. His flashlight is over. The color of a tangerine.

110:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  NlGHT.

BERLIN stares up at the coiling "I can hear footsteps .. right

up above?" They disappear into the gale. Doors beat at the end

of the corridor. He moves towards them and pushes out onto the

stairway. Nothing but the wind. He's about to climb when an al-

arming voice shocks him rigid. "YOU ARE NOW ON THE THIRD FLOOR."

BERLIN is already running. Light swinging wildly as he sprints

back up the corridor. Fifteen yards to elevator/stairs. Breath-

less as hell he hits the radio. "Fucker's in the elevator." Al-

most jumps stairs in haste. Bursts out onto the 3rd floor. Ham-

mer back on the Beretta. Just in time to see the doors closing.

"Get ready, Ross. He maybe coming down." But he isn't. He's go-

ing up. By the time he's recovered breath the Voice is back in

business. Whoever rides the elevator is now on the fifth floor.

111:  INT.  STAIRWELL.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

Totally breathless now. Eyes ascend faster than feet. Whine of

a swinging door. BERLIN rounds the stairwell. The door's still

busy. Top of the building here and the ceilings are closing in.

BERLIN'S P.O.V. as he heads for that door. Closer. Three steps

to go. Closer. Two steps more. One step. Reaches for it. Whamm!

The door smashes into him like it hates him. So fast it hardly

happened. He staggers back. His flashlight clatters downstairs.

Banisters capsize as the light passes. Every shadow goes crazy.

The flashlight arrives at a lower level. Rolls away and stops.

Wastes power into a corner. Can't see Berlin and can't see his

radio. But Ross cuts into the silence with increasing disquiet.

112:  EXT.  REAR OF INSTITUTE/FIRE ESCAPE.  NIGHT.

ROSS savaged by the gale. In considerable anxiety. Less than a

volt in his batteries. His failure to contact Berlin accelerat-

es his concern by the moment. Calls repeatedly "You hearing me?"

Big close on the radio. Fingers switch channels. Tries calling

on five/six. Still nothing and goes to channel eight. "Come in,

John?" Alright fuck it. Light or no light. He's going up there.

Still calling he barges at the wind making for the fire escape.

Stares up into the gloom of the iron stairs. Hardly got a foot

on the first before a Figure rushes down. Dressed in black and

very breathless. A powerful flashlight floods on dazzling ROSS.

Thank Jesus the anxiety's over. The 12 gauge drops to his side.

The light remains steady and blinding and straight in his face.

Just the sound of breathlessness. Plus a .25 Walther automatic.

It glints at the peripheries of his vision and ROSS is alarmed.

Two deathly flashes in quick succession. The first practically

taken Ross's hand off. The second slams into his guts and he's

down. The Glaser is unequalled in ferocity by any other bullet.

113:  EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE (ATTIC LEVEL).  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

The MYOPIC JANITOR looks down. Five floors below a man lays on

his back. His shotgun discharges uselessly into trees. Another

man leans over him. Illuminates his agonized face with a flash-

light. Shoots him again point-blank in the upper body. The MYO-

PIC isn't staying for more. Hurries back along the fire escape.

114:  INT.  ATTIC APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

Wind breaks on the roof like waves. An utterly dismal room lit

by a starving light bulb. The MYOPIC arrives from the fire esc-

ape. Huge eyes behind those orb-like glasses. Picks up a phone

and dials. Piles and piles of old newspapers. Hundreds of fuck

magazines. In the kitchen section a mass of photographic equip-

ment includes an enlarger on the table a flash camera.  On the

wall behind him a collage of snaps of half dressed girls. Plus

a special enlargement of Helena standing naked in her bathroom.

115:  EXT.  REAR OF INSTITUTE.  FIRE ESCAPE.  NIGHT.

Close on a bulb in a flashlight. The merest glimmer of energy.

Barely the light to see the blood. It seeps into a long-frozen

footprint in the ice. Fills it fast and expands over the sides.

Somebody say this can't be happening? BERLIN crumples to knees

in the snow. Dumps his light gasping for breath. Oblique light

creating desperate silhouettes. BERLIN howls like a dog. Howls

into his radio. "Nine - Nine - Nine." Blood all over his hands.

"This is a Nine - Nine - Nine - officer down." ROSS is heaving

like an old bull elephant. On the verge of unconsciousness. He

tries to speak. Got hit in the throat. BERLIN fights off tears.

"Don't talk old man." Repeats the emergency code but this time

he can't be heard. Almost imperceptibly a Carol filters in (In

The Bleak Mid Winter) and the Camera moves slowly away. BERLIN

cradles ROSS's tragic head and the song drowns the raging wind.

This beautiful Christmas carol will articulate rhythm of these

cuts. And there will be no other sound until the sequence ends.

116:  EXT.  CITY STREET.  CITY HOSPITAL.  NIGHT.

A blue emergency light. Revolving in slow motion. Like a dream.

The city streets are a blur. The light accelerates into sudden

reality. Ambulance plus police convoy speed to a city hospital.

117:  INT.  EMERGENCY ROOM.  HOSPITAL.  NIGHT.

Close-up of MARGIE kissing her husband's lips for the last time.

Tears spill down his cheeks from her eyes. FREDDY ROSS is dead.

118:  INT.  WAITING AREA.  HOSPITAL.  NIGHT.

Outside in the corridor. Looking in at BERLIN. He sits head in

hands on a bench. This is somebody's point of view. The camera

travels up the windows. Waits at a distance as CITRINE arrives.

Pajamas under his clothes. He walks with assistance of a stick.

Neither say anything because both know what this is about. BER-

LIN stands and hands over his badge. Exits the mag and now his

Beretta. A brief word from CITRINE and he turns and walks away.

119:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAWN.

A little house in winter meadows. Kind of pretty now it's pain-

ted. Just the first tint of pink on its roof. The Carol dissol-

ves into birdsong. Here comes the sun for a fine Christmas day.

120:  EXT.  VERANDA.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

All new paint and all new things in expectation of happy times.

A barbecue still in polythene wraps. Price tag and unconnected

gas pipe shift gently in the breeze. A brand now swinging seat.

BERLIN sits in it with shock wearing on. Expressionless of sor-

row. Though he suffers every sorrow and guilt and regret there

is. Sunlight reaches the veranda and colors the end of it red.

silent and motionless he watches the lousiest dawn of his life.

121:  EXT/INT.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  LIVING ROOM.  DAY.

Lights glow on the Christmas tree. Unopened presents still und-

erneath. SERATO sits smoking in silence. Listens to a sound of

plates getting stacked in another room. He looks up but not in

surprise. He just wasn't aware BERLIN had arrived in the house.

Stunned and stubbled and full of grief. And that's just SERATO.

This atmosphere is unbearable and even these whispers seem laud.

SERATO shakes his head. Loses his cigarette. And SAMMY appears.

SAMMY SERATO is 30 and pretty. She continues collecting plates.

Knows he's not going to get a reply and doesn't bother to wait

for it. HELENA materializes from the den like a shadow. Sallow

for want of sleep and glad to have BERLIN's hand to hang on to.

A suggestion that surprises HELENA. And clearly doesn't appeal.

If silence can intensify it's now. Sound of the front door and

then footsteps. BERLIN freezes as MARGIE appears. Wracked with

grief. Dead sickness of tears. Like she cried bones out of her

face. But no weeping now. Maybe shock. Maybe brave. Maybe both.

The strongest face in the house. And now HELENA is in her arms.

Dead echos of plates in the kitchen. And song of birds outside.

Raises her hand to silence him and this is silence Margie owns.

Christ this is just awful. HELENA crying and BERLIN on the way.

Footsteps again as she walks out and silence again like before.

122:  INT.  BEDROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

The Camera will slowly crane down on BERLIN. Fully dressed but

wiped out he lays an the bad. Last thing he needs is booze. He

is clearly full of it. Drifting in and out of consciousness. A

nightmare either side of the line. He relives that night again.

And Ross is alive again as guilt and regret demand to be heard.

A memory that is too terrible to bear. BERLIN gets up and sits

at the edge of the bad. Head in hands. Wants the pain to go aw-

ay. But anguish is stronger than alcohol. Hears noises outside

and makes it to a window. Tears curtains back revealing lights.

His Mercedes hangs in space as though staring into the bedroom.

123:  EXT.  FRONT YARD.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

The Mercedes descends onto a low-loader courtesy of a car lift-

ing truck. BERLIN out of his door. Almost too ruined to apprec-

iate what's happening. Crane lights and flashlights and chains

getting tightened. Couple of Strangers and a Kid he recognizes.

Flashes his light at a standard issue (brown) police Chevrolet.

124:  INT.  CHIEF'S OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The man from the F.B.I. is 50. Black suit and wing tips. All F.

B.I. Investigators are either lawyers or accountants. And this

fellow looks like both. When he smiles it's a decaffeinated ex-

ercise. Bothers nothing but lips. This smile's always the same.

BERLIN looks awful. Showered and shaved but just fucking awful.

CITRINE slips focus to the man. And St ANNE imperceptibly nods.

125:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

Close on a pair of dancing needles. They react to voice-levels

on a twin spool tape recorder. But no sound of yakking in here.

St Anne's ASSISTANT sucks a pencil. Busy with a cross-word puz-

zle. Fills in a word but the Camera isn't interested. It moves

away to discover head phones. And moves closer to hear St ANNE.

126:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

A change of chairs. A wood chair for the subject. Mobile chair

for the man. Castors give him considerable freedom. Enable him

to back off or move in with the intimacy of an ophthalmologist.

A side table features several pin sharp pencils. A Sony pocket

recorder. Two packets of Pall Mall reds. Two yellow legal pads.

The chair moves into reverse and he breaks a puke colored file.

The report that's in his hands. (St Anne knows well which man.)

He smiles the non-smile. Tosses his pencil down. And sits back.

St ANNE cuts him off to pick up the phone. Obviously something

vital is needed. "Could you bring an an ashtray in here? Got a

coupla guys who smoke in here." And attention back to the file.

His ASSISTANT brings the ashtray. And St ANNE smiles gratitude.

This is meant to humiliate and meant to annoy and it does both.

127:  INT. ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

CITRINE rests on his cane staring through the one-way glass. A

menu of anxieties. But perhaps sadness is his principal expres-

sion. His eyes slide to the ASSISTANT "Can you turn that thing

on?" Glad to oblige and Voices cut in. This is CITRINE'S P.O.V.

128:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

St ANNE motors off & refers to notes without looking at BERLIN.

The chair moves back in and its pilot has an icicle up his ass.

The dead smile and rubber in action. St ANNE changes his notes.

For the first time St ANNE moves his chair into BERLIN's space.

Implications are ganging up quicker than BERLIN can focus them.

BERLIN confirms it. Looking very concerned. The wheels retreat.

St ANNE shakes out a cigarette and takes his time with matches.

129:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The lights on the Christmas tree are off. That just about sums

it up. The word's out and it talks in barren silence as BERLIN

appears. TAYLOR and SERATO in conference at a desk. The former

looks. The latter turns away. BERLIN walks the room into close-

up. "Like some coffee, John?" Seems like ANN is the only benev-

olent face around. She gets a lost smile & bewildered shake of

his head. Disappears into his room And quietly closes the door.

130:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

A picture of Ross fills the frame. Snapped the day they search-

ed the dump. Blasted with rain. A waterproof cape and a finger

raised in defiance. BERLIN shifts eyes from the bulletin board.

Pours a last inch of whisky and drinks. Eyes back to the board

for a last photographic/panoramic record of his time in Eureka.

The photo of Ross again before his eyes sweep quickly on. Pict-

ure of Amber Stone. Thumb tacks and maps and tape. Information

relating to specific areas in San Diego. Carlsbad/Ocean Beach/

Point Loma. "Jennifer Seven" "Jennifer Eight." But who gives a

fuck anymore? Two dead dogs on a refuse dump. And now the dead

face of a Dummy. BERLIN stares till someone knocks on the door.

St ANNE comes in smoking a cigarette and eating a ham sandwich.

He will exit when he stops speaking. Before he does he wanders

the lab showing particular interest in the Dummy of Jennifer 8.

131:  INT.  BOBBY'S BEDROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  NIGHT.

BOBBY is in hysterics. A gale of tears. Fits his words between

them. His Mom does her best to cope with his grief and her own.

132:  INT.  KITCHEN.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY.

Fingers search out and identify phone numbers. Dial for inform-

ation and HELENA whispers "I need the number for a cab, please."

133:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The Camera's getting closer and so is St ANNE. And today there

is a definite change of mood. Still very measured. Still a pro-

fessional demeanor. But a bad sense of shit about to come down.

Bit of a cold coming on and near enough for BERLIN to catch it.

134:  EXT.  TRACK/FRONT YARD.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

A yellow cab splashes through puddles and pulls up in front of

the house. HELENA gets out and pays. No she doesn't need assis-

tance. Picks up her suitcase and the cab vanishes into drizzle.

135:  INT.  KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

Back door opens and HELENA walks in. First thing she senses is

cold. This place smells like it hasn't been lived in since she

was last here. And last time she was here she was happy. Dumps

her case and heads for the living room. Can't see it but feels

the overwhelming gloom. Finds a couch and now she sits to wait.

The silence is almost total. But something disturbs it. HELENA

looks around. Back on her feet she tries to discover source of

the sound. Finally arrives at a table lamp. She feels the bulb

and it's hot. A large moth beats itself crazy inside the shade.

Reaches in and turns it off & the house is in virtual darkness.

136:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

St ANNE lights a cigarette. Attention with his notes. Sniffing

a fair bit. He's acquired a toilet roll to deal with it. Occas-

ionally will tear a sheet or two off to blow his nose. Glances

at BERLIN "You want a cigarette?" No he doesn't "I've given up."

How does St ANNE know? Perhaps he doesn't? Sounds like he does.

His attention still with notes like a quack about to prescribe.

BERLIN doesn't know where this is going but he doesn't like it.

Eyes to BERLIN now and his smile looks real for the first time.

St ANNE makes a note. Junks the pencil. Sits back in his chair.

St ANNE breaks off to blow his nose. BERLIN looks very worried.

Hits the cigarette like this is the one that caused the cancer.

BERLIN looks grey as sick. Knows what's coming. And here it is.

It seems St ANNE has effectively destroyed the "Serial Killer"

scenario. Stubs his cigarette and waits for BERLIN's response.

St ANNE is winning. And they both know it. And he almost grins.

If St ANNE can raise an eyebrow he does. By implication BERLIN is

ditching his "Killer." During this St ANNE rewinds his Sony.

The little Sony snaps to a stop and St ANNE looks at his watch.

St ANNE backs off and carefully replaces the Sony on the table.

137:  INT.  BEDROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

HELENA is curled up under blankets. Maybe day-dreaming but not

asleep. She's maybe here to keep warm as much as anything else.

Sound of a vehicle approaching and she sits to listen. The car

pulls up and its engine silences. HELENA is already out of bed.

138:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/PORCH/FRONT YARD.  HOUSE.  DAY.

Silhouette of a figure outside the front door. Someone rattles

the handle but it's locked. And by the time HELENA reaches the

door the visitor has gone. Thinking it's Berlin she twists the

key and steps onto the porch. A stale winter fog settling down.

Hardly a sound except her own voice. "John? Is that you?" Just

the rattle of local Crows and a Bull heaving somewhere in some

distant field. "John?" She cautiously descends wood stairs and

walks two or three paces before bumping into a brown Chevrolet.

Exploration of the car establishes nil. More confused than con-

cerned she listens. Country sound and not a sound out of place

Then suddenly she is alert. Something clatters somewhere. Like

cans kicked in the garage? Was it the garage? "John, is it you?"

139:  INT.  KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  DAY.

HELENA locks the front door. Moves into the kitchen. Locks the

back door. Glum silence in the house. Nothing but an old alarm

clock ticking. Then a sound like something moving. Like a door

creaking open? Was it in the garage? The living room? Upstairs?

She returns to the living room. Curtains drawn and almost dark.

The endless silence is interrupted by a rush of water in pipes.

If anybody's here they're upstairs? HELENA moves to the bottom

of them "John, are you up there? It's me, darling. I got a cab."

The only reply is more silence. She begins to climb the stairs.

One hand on the wall. She ascends slowly. Her helplessness giv-

ing way to suspicion with each new step. At the top she pushes

into the bedroom "John, are you here? Darling? Are you alright?"

Apparently no one is here. Certainly no one in the bed. And no

one in the bathroom. She reappears with an expression suppress-

ing anxiety. Feels her way past an antique wardrobe. Curiously

its door is open. A full length mirror inside. Shuts it as she

passes and for a split-instant the Man in the room is revealed.

Almost simultaneously fingers in black leather clasp her wrist.

HELENA in speechless with shock. Both she and the INTRUDER are

breathing hard. The only other sound is the wardrobe door whin-

ing open again under its weight. Manifests a reflection of his

back. Totally in black. Black wool hat. Leather jacket. Gloves.

He backs her to the bed and sits her before releasing his grip.

The frame remains static and staring into the mirror and still

on the INTRUDER's back. HELENA stares unseeing at her own face.

He reaches into his jeans and produces a stainless steel knife.

Even closed this thing is 10 inches long. A leather loop attat-

ched at one and. He teases the metal in front of HELENA's eyes.

Not a switch-blade but by snapping it like a whip it locks out.

Too terrified to obey and her inability momentarily angers him.

HELENA lifts her hand and he takes it. He runs the edge of the

blade over her palm. Then closes her fingers around the handle.

She is paralyzed except for the tears spilling down her cheeks.

Words come out she can barely hear herself. "You are a coward."

In this terrible silence she hears a double hiss of an aerosol.

140:  EXT.  CAR PARK.  POLICE STATION.  CITY OF EUREKA.  DAY.

Fog and dusk in that order. Headlights descend the slope. Park

and CITRINE plus cane get out. As he crosses the lot a Uniform

fires up a Harley. Next face is SERATO heading for his car. He

accosts the Chief with a piece of paper. It is read with escal-

ating incredulity. This would be comic if it wasn't so serious.

141:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

CITRINE walks in in his overcoat. BISLEY looks across from the

window. And the ASSISTANT up from a crossword. "Are they busy?"

The ASSISTANT does it via phone. And BISLEY looks over unhappy.

St ANNE comes in blowing his nose. CITRINE shoves him the mess~

age. He reads it with similar incredulity (but perhaps a touch

more amusement than Citrine) "What d'you wanna do with it, Sir?"

142:  EXT.  FRONT YARD.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DUSK.

A single light in a downstairs room. The house is stifled with

fog. A brown police Chevy parked out front. Here comes another

to join it. As BERLIN gets out SERATO appears on the porch. He

descends stairs with the impartial expression of a working cop.

SERATO keeps it dispassionate. Ignores BERLIN's desperate eyes.

Puts a thumb towards the house and already heading for his oar.

143:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

This isn't a good place to be. A dismal lamp supplies light. A

close-up Of HELENA on the sofa. Hears a sound of booze getting

poured. But nothing else in the house except for a harsh voice.

By now BERLIN and his glass of anaesthetic are well into frame.

He doesn't want to. But now he's got to. And so here it comes.

Back at the booze and he's almost inaudible "Stop it, will you?"

Something snaps in BERLIN and he throws his glass at the grate.

And just as suddenly he's full of remorse. Takes HELENA in his

arms with a lot of sorrys. But she isn't interested in apology.

There's a passion in her face. And fire even in her blind eyes.

144:  INT.  GARAGE.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

Music slams in on the cut. Berlin is about to take this garage

to pieces. He searches cans and boxes and stacked timber. What

ever it is his eyes are looking. The Camera looks down from ab-

ove. Bits & pieces all over the floor but he discovers nothing.

145:  INT.  BATHROOM/BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

Close on a hand searching underside of the bath. Pipes and cob-

webs. He reaches toward the taps. His hand is literally inches

from the Walther (taped to the end of the tub). Fingers almost

touch it. Just a fingernail away when HELENA interrupts "John?"

And BERLIN rolls out and stares up like a mechanic under a car.

HELENA stands in the doorway and BERLIN is already on his feet.

BERLIN wipes a thought through his hair with fingers. "I don't

know what that means." Walks past into the bedroom. Everything

taken apart. Every drawer open and the bed heaped with clothes.

146:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

BERLIN pours last of the whisky. Looks totally snuffed out. He

and HELENA sit on the same sofa but the atmosphere puts them a

mile apart. A yellow pad on the table covered in notes. BERLIN

swallows scotch and reads to himself "I guess we all got lucky?"

Another mouthful of scotch & she hears the glass hit the table.

That's what she knows about alcohol and he'd prefer to be dead.

147:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

St ANNE is close enough to kiss BERLIN. Right into his space &

talking right into his face. And today he's not in a good mood.

And he suddenly switches gear. And whispers like it's a secret.

St ANNE shunts back in his chair. Expands the frame as he goes.

Sergeant TAYLOR sits on a chair with his back to the wall. Cig-

arettes and ashtray on the table next to his. St ANNE lights a

Pall Mall and as if it's an after-thought he snaps the Sony on.

BERLIN already looks devastated. He's about to got annihilated.

St ANNE clicks the Sony off & BERLIN is too stunned to breathe.

BERLIN gives him nothing but silence. A knock on the door "Come

in." And the ASSISTANT hands St ANNE a note. Reads it and excus-

es himself. Leaves the silence for BERLIN. But TAYLOR breaks it.

TAYLOR lights a cigarette and exhales. Something of a real red-

headed fuck about him. And BERLIN would like to break his neck.

He rolls ash off his cigarette and pushes it round the ashtray.

The phone rings and TAYLOR answers. Puts his red eyes at BERLIN.

BERLIN has to find every strength for this one. Humiliation com-

pounds. Gets up and stares at his own haunted face in the glass.

148:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The MYOPIC peers into BERLIN's face. St ANNE stands close with

his toilet roll. Light refracts in the MYOPIC's lenses "I seen

him up there quite a lot." St ANNE blows his nose "Is that the

man you saw that night?" He stares again at the tormented face.

He's escorted to the door and his space is occupied by CITRINE.

St ANNE on his way to the door now. He pauses for the question.

149:  INT.  WAITING AREA.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

HELENA waits on a bench in the empty room. Maybe a few scruffy

magazines? But nothing of use to her in here except she's near

Berlin. He arrives like every hope got abandoned and sits next

to her. They clasp one another's hands before she embraces him.

Something difficult to tell her and doesn't know how to say it.

Her tears are close to his face. No one but him could hear her.

150:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

If the waiting room felt bad try sitting in here. Both St ANNE

and TAYLOR are smoking and the Sony playing again. This is the

final part of the tape. No speech but a lot of labored breath-

ing. Ross groaning and now the sound of his shotgun. More desp-

erate inhalations and now sound of the last shot into his neck.

Shakes his head in confirmation. And St ANNE finds a notebook.

BERLIN stares at the book & can barely credit what he's seeing.

And during the next attack St ANNE will work himself into rage.

Tears of grief and tears of rage. BERLIN can't restrain either.

BERLIN is a wreck of despair. But somehow he keeps his dignity.

And at last he looks pleased. Because he's got this man busted.

Can't take anymore questions. Answers with a shake of his head.

Produces a capsule in a plastic bag and throws it on the table.

Every cell in BERLIN's body freezes. Misinterpreted by St ANNE.

But he does know what it is. The pill he found in the V.W. van.

TAYLOR stares a rock drill and St ANNE stares something similar.

BERLIN focuses a fragment of hope. But no sign of hope in here.

151:  INT.  WAITING AREA.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

BERLIN hurries in and grabs HELENA's hand. Instantly transmits

the adrenalin. They head for the door with him whispering hard.

152:  INT.  KITCHEN.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY.

BERLIN/HELENA couldn't have been in the house longer than it's

taken to call Los Angeles. MARGIE infected with the excitement

although as yet she hardly knows what's going on. BERLIN paces

the tiles on a long phone lead. Eyes to MARGIE while they wait.

Another excruciating wait plus further explanations for MARGIE.

Dumps the phone and stokes anxiety in HELENA and MARGIE's eyes.

Everything happens in a hurry. He embraces HELENA. She'll pray

for him. Already out the back door with MARGIE in tow. A black

& white parked in the drive with VENABLES stuffed inside. Plus

a grim wind tearing trees. BERLIN pauses as he reaches his car.

Catches her eyes. Can barely look at them. They're full of hate.

153:  EXT.  HILLSIDE.  OAKLAND.  DAY.

Wide over the bay area. Wind swept and rain swept. City lights

beginning to come on. In the distance the docks and far beyond

the ocean. Somewhere here is a solitary phone booth. "I'm look-

ing for a special type of rattan .. friend of mine recommended

you, said I should ask for someone called Amanda .. You don't?

O.K. .. Thank you." Followed by sound of a phone slamming down.

154:  INT.  PHONE BOOTH.  HILLSIDE STREET.  DAY.

A stack of coins and a pair of ripped out Yellow Pages. BERLIN

crosses off another number. Running out of craft shops and run-

ning out of quarters. A new number hears the same old bullshit.

But this one is answering good! Fights to keep his voice light.

And he comes out of there running. The Chevy roars up the hill.

155:  INT.  ANTIQUE MARKET.  CRAFT EMPORIUM.  DUSK.

The kind of store heads open in abandoned warehouses. A jungle

of jewelry and cane furniture and ethnic junk.  Many chairs of

the ilk Berlin saw in the Volkswagen van. And now he's staring

at its driver. His P.O.V. through windows. He watches as a red

headed Girl clears the till in preparation to close up. within

moments the lights are dead and AMANDA is heading for her door.

156:  EXT.  MARKET/WAREHOUSE.  CAR PARK.  DUSK.

Plenty of rain to hurry in. AMANDA. drives a red Datsun. She ex-

its the car park with a man in a brown Chevrolet following her.

157:  EXT/INT.  CAR/STREETS.  SUBURBS.  OAKLAND.  NIGHT.

The Chevy tails the Datsun through city streets. A lot of rush

hour traffic. Music to go with it and it's probably Mussorgsky.

A final cut and headlights are navigating the hills. Disappear

and reappear as they ascend. Steep inclines and the houses are

middle class. Too dark to see much now but lamp posts and rain.

Still climbing the Datsun takes a side street. BERLIN keeps 50

yards behind. She turns off and parks in a sloping driveway. A

white Volkswagen van at the top of it. BERLIN has already pull-

ed over. Kills his lights and watches her hurry into the house.

158:  EXT.  STEEP STAIRS.  PORCH.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

BERLIN just rang the doorbell. Imposes an impartial expression.

But this is his last chance and he knows it. The front door is

opened & secured on a safety-chain. AMANDA carries a white Cat.

And she stares like he does not. Before she stares like he does.

His smile disarms the securities. And she opens the front door.

159:  INT.  HALLWAY.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

So far so good. Inside without showing an I.D. he doesn't have.

This is a gloomy place. She shuts the door. Shuts out the gale.

His hopes are collapsing by the moment and nothing else is left.

The Cat cries for its food and AMANDA begins to look suspicious.

Maybe too much charge in his head and she doesn't like the vibe?

Sure she can and he searches for it. "Must have left it at home?"

AMANDA opens the front door just long enough for BERLIN to leave.

160:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

The emerging Music is full of threat. Like it's part of the dark-

ness. Too dark to see much of anything here. A sound of somebody

hammering at a door. A light outside and the Camera moves closer.

Creeps towards the door as though it's going to answer. Suddenly

glass shatters. The door flies open. Flashlights and Men rush in.

161.  INT.  CHEVROLET SEDAN.  STREET.  NIGHT.

BERLIN stares towards the house. Music and rain and a downstairs

light just wont out. Headlights go on and the Datsun drives away.

162:  INT.  CHIMNEY FLUE/BEDROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

A flashlight searches cobwebs and soot. Descends the chimney and

TAYLOR emerges from a long-sealed-off fireplace. Blinks dirt out

of his eyes and moves back into the bedroom. Upended bed against

the wall and everything upsidedown. The search looks like it has

been thorough. St ANNE appears at the door and TAYLOR looks over.

163:  INT.  MASTER BEDROOM.  (AMANDA'S) HOUSE.  NIGHT.

BERLIN searches the bedroom. Anxiety and antiques. Does a vanity

and now a wardrobe. Nothing much in either. But finds a shoe box

full of letters in the latter. Postcards/birthday cards etcetera.

164:  INT.  BATHROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

Half the floorboards already up. VENABLES levers at another. The

music is nervous and louder. Next floorboard is next to the bath.

165:  INT.  BEDROOM/WARDROBE.  (AMANDA'S) HOUSE.  NIGHT.

Big close on a postcard (a fantasy yacht on a blue sea). The cap-

tion reads "JUST ANOTHER DAY IN SAN DIEGO." Close enough to read

the message ".. too hot .. asthma not too good .. as soon as I'm

settled I'll write .. love John .." Next letter out is also post-

marked San Diego. Inside is a happy snap of Sergeant John Taylor.

166:  INT.  BATHROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

Almost too close to see what's happening. But a gloved hand just

found a pistol under the bath. Out it comes with BISLEY shouting.

And St ANNE and TAYLOR arrive. "Got a little Walther. It's a 25."

167:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY.

HELENA looks at the floor and listens. MARGIE looks at the T.V.

and listens. Big close on the screen. This scene will intercut

between the television and those in front of it as appropriate.

[1]  An exterior shot of Berlin's house. Sheriff's cars parked

out front. Various people come and go. One of them is Sergeant

Taylor. Perpetual wind on the sound track interrupted by a V.O.

[2]  Heineman's B.M.W. pulls up outside the police station and

this is conducted on the move. A Reporter asks "What's the nat-

ure of this meeting, Sir?" HEINEMAN is sorry but can't comment.

He pauses briefly an the steps with the wind savaging his hair.

HELENA looks in utmost despair. "Is it true he resisted arrest?"

BOBBY appears somewhere behind the Ladies. T.V. commentary con-

tinues. "Meanwhile, Sergeant Berlin remains in a cell at police

headquarters arraigned on what is believed to be  a $500,000.00

bail. As Mayor Heineman said, this, is a 'sad day' for Eureka."

Except for the one face that isn't sad and it belongs to BOBBY.

168:  INT.  CORRIDOR/CELLS.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The cell window is reinforced glass. BERLIN smashes on it like

an insane man. TRAVIS (apparently on cell duty) has never seen

nothing like this before. CITRINE doesn't want to see any more.

But he isn't and CITRINE moves off. BERLIN cracks blood out of

knuckles on the glass. Hollers up the corridor after the Chief.

169:  EXT.  DRIVE.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY.

Gale still making a mass of the trees. A police Chevy pulls up

and TAYLOR gets out. Puts a knuckle on the window of a black &

white. A Uniform wakes and TAYLOR interrupts his apologies "Go."

And the young Cop does the drive as TAYLOR heads for the house.

170:  INT.  STAIRS/LIVING ROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY.

HELENA descends the stairs with her luggage. She's towards the

bottom when TAYLOR appears via the kitchen. Lights momentarily

stall as the gale sucks their electricity. Ignorant of his pre-

sence she loses her bags and disappears into the den. He moves

after her and startles the shit out of MARGIE as she comes out.

MARGIE heads for a table and unloads a strong-box of documents.

He watches her select various papers aware of what she's about.

HELENA reappears wearing a coat and TAYLOR is in generous mood.

171:  INT.  CELL.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

Here's a classic twenty-two. BERLIN is consumed with anxiety &

rage. But get mad in here and get nothing. No shoe strings and

no wrist watch. But a wrist-band like something medical summar-

izing his charge. St ANNE sits impassive as BERLIN walks floor.

Produces a Zippo in a plastic sack and BERLIN's senses capsize.

A question for which St ANNE expects no answer and he is right.

Maybe BERLIN asks him "Where" or maybe his expression's enough?

BERLIN can't believe it and knows St ANNE wouldn't believe him.

BERLIN wouldn't believe it either. Door open and TRAVIS enters.

St ANNE and BERLIN look surprised. And BERLIN looks at St ANNE.

St ANNE examines the bail/bond paper and raises eyes to BERLIN.

172:  EXT.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DUSK.

Music on the cut and this is a crane shot high above the house.

A car tears up the drive with the Camera descending to meet it.

BERLIN out and into the house. And still the gale howls around.

173:  INT.  DOWNSTAIRS ROOMS.  HOUSE.  DUSK.

Darkness and silence. Where the hell is everyone? He quicks it

to the den, Cartoons on T.V. but no one watching. With escalat-

ing concern he hits the kitchen and now he's shouting upstairs.

"Margie. Margie." About to climb when BOBBY appears at the top.

BERLIN freezes. He maybe says "What?" He definitely says "When?"

BERLIN has already grabbed a telephone. Aware it's dead before

BOBBY tells him "They're all out around here." He wanders down-

stairs in apparent oblivion to BERLIN's distress. BERLIN races

back to the den and new problems. Desperate to get at the guns

but all cabinets locked "Where's the keys, Bobby? I need a gun."

BOBBY stares at BERLIN as though he's staring at that very man.

He turns away into the darkness. BERLIN looks frantic and with-

out options. Smashes the cabinets with a chair. Grabs a 44 rev-

olver plus a 12 gauge Remington and the slugs that go with it.

174:  EXT.  FREEWAY INTERSECTION.  NIGHT.

Wide over an intersection. Berlin's Chevy crosses a bridge and

descends into lights. Music travels with him but the Camera re-

mains static. Watches tail lights dissolve into a river of red.

175:  EXT.  FREEWAY.  NIGHT.

Tracking back with the car. As yet 100 yards away. Moving fast

and getting closer. As it approaches a remote sound of a phone

drifts in. And headlights so near now they wipe out everything.

176:  INT.  CHEVY SEDAN.  FREEWAY.  NIGHT.

Starting to sleet and windshield wipers on. The phone is still

ringing like it's at the end of Berlin's brain. Like it's part

of his thoughts mixed up with the nightmare he's hearing again.

Intercutting BERLIN's fearful eyes with his P.O.V. of the road.

Just the sound of tho phone and the road dissolving into black.

177:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

A miserable corridor with the merest of lights. A phone rings

somewhere at its end. HELENA is on her way up the corridor and

the ringing is louder. Finds keys and walks into her apartment.

178:  INT.  APARTMENT.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

Phone in close-up and the frame widens as HELENA heads towards

it. Reaches out and is maybe a second away before it rings off.

179:  INT/EXT.  PHONE BOOTH.  GAS STATION.  NIGHT.

This is a little country stop some place an the peripheries of

the snow-line. BERLIN slams the phone down and runs to his car.

Screeches out onto the highway and the Camera begins to ascend.

The Camera climbs higher revealing somber mountains. Plus mile

upon mile of road he has yet to travel. Still it ascends until

the Chevrolet is reduced to an insignificance by the landscape.

180:  EXT.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

A panoramic over the institute wide enough to include surround-

ing forest. Headlights approach down a wooded track and go out.

Just possible to see a tiny Figure moving towards the building.

181:  EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

High on the fire escape looking down. A flashlight arrives bel-

ow. Eerie fragmentation of light as the Figure begins to climb.

182: EXT. CHEVY SEDAN/ROAD.  SHASTA VALLEY.  NIGHT.

The highway is winding and narrowed with snow. Couldn't find a

lousier road on which to overtake. BERLIN is right up behind a

forty ton truck and he's trying to overtake. Hits the horn and

tries again. Halfway past the trailer when a bend suddenly rel-

eases headlights. An angry claxon and he's forced to pull back.

183:  INT.  BEDROOM.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

Although curtains are open the room is in darkness. Someone on

the fire escape looking in. A flashlight snaps on and a circle

of light explores the room. Creeps across the floor and pauses

at the bed. Climbs slowly to illuminate HELENA's sleeping face.

144:  EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

Close-up sound and close-up picture. A glass-cutter scores the

window. A nasty noise but you'd have to be wide awake and list-

ening to hear it. A gloved fist punches the section out. Falls

to the floor and shatters. And a hand reaches in for the catch.

145:  INT.  BEDROOM/LIVING ROOM.  APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

HELENA is wide awake and listening. Hurrying into her dressing

gown with a similar urgency to get out. She arrives in the liv-

ing room as the FIGURE is clambering through the window. Panic

as she blunders for the front door. Tears it open and vanishes

into the corridor. He crosses the room and follows her outside.

186:  INT.  CORRIDOR/STAIRS.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

HELENA knows the building and moves faster than he may have ex-

pected. Green dressing gown and bare feet. White nightgown and

blonde hair. The man in black hurries after her. She's already

at the swing doors and he's virtually running to stay with her.

She bursts through the doors and rushes downstairs. He follows

only seconds behind. The wind groans down as they descend. HEL-

ENA turns a corner of the stairwell and momentarily disappears.

For a moment he loses her! Which way did she go? Downstairs or

along the corridor? His anxiety is immediately assuaged. Spots

what already looks like a ghost fleeing into shadows. He takes

off along the corridor. Getting breathless. But getting closer.

Near enough now to sense her fear. Near enough now to grab her.

As he reaches for her she turns. MARGIE wears a green dressing

gown and a blonde wig and has a very big fucking pistol in her

hand. TAYLOR can't believe what he's looking at. And for an in-

stant neither does MARGIE. Their surprise is mutually stunning.

How can it be him? How can it be her? TAYLOR's still trying to

work out how they made the switch when the first bullet smacks

into his chest. Gets another as he goes down. He crumples in a

deadly heap and revenge is completed with two more in the back.

187:  INT.  LANDING/STAIRS.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

MARGIE barges through the doors. The MYOPIC Janitor is halfway

up adjacent stairs peering down. No time for introductions and

no time for explanations. "Call the Police. Do it. Now." Shout-

ing up at him she's already descending. "Tell em the gymnasium."

188:  INT.  GYMNASIUM.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

MARGIE patrols plate glass windows. Where are the fucking cops?

She's shocked and looks strange indeed. Wig off but hair grips

all over her head. An overcoat and shoes but still wearing the

nightgown underneath. A couple of dreary lights in the ceiling.

HELENA sits numb under one of them all but hidden in a blanket.

MARGIE can't stand waiting any longer. "I'm gonna call them my-

self." HELENA nods and sure she's O.K. to stay here. The doors

settle and she is alone. Headlights cross the windows shifting

the shadows of everything. Swooping the walls they move attent-

ion back to the door. TAYLOR stares in and then pushes through.

Worse for wear but very much alive. Discarded his leather jack-

et revealing the bullet proof vest. Blood all over his T-shirt.

Looks like he caught one in the shoulder. A bad burn and blood

runs from his left hand. In his right hand he clasps the knife.

He cracks it open like a whip. HELENA hears it and stands. Ter-

ror as the footsteps approach. "Margie. Margie." But Margie is-

n't around. He's less than 30 feet away. She tries to back off

but is hindered by the blanket. Tries to scream but is stifled

with fear. Maybe six seconds to live but this refers to Taylor.

"Taylor" He swings around but this time he doesn't get time to

look surprised. BERLIN blows the fucker across the room. Solid

load slugs weighing an ounce each crash into him. BERLIN keeps

pumping the Remington and doesn't stop firing until the magaz-

ine is over. No conjecture now. This bastard is very much dead.

BERLIN throws the 12 gauge aside. And maybe it means something.

Maybe at last he accepts he's stopped living in that world and

ready to give himself a chance in this. HELENA in his arms and

this is his new world. Flashing lights and headlights flood in-

to the darkness. Their embrace goes on. And this story is told.

