NOTE

Most of the sequences in this production are filmed using a hand-

held camera or a Steadycam. These very mobile cameras move around

the set, and get constantly closer and further from the

characters. Still, we'll be using the usual technical terms, such

as long shot or full shot or medium shot here and there to

give the reader an idea of the location of the camera at the

beginning of each sequence. And then we'll mention the movements

of the camera.

Winged white horse flying over clouds

CREDITS IN WHITE LETTERS ON BLACK SCREEN

We hear jazz music during the credits.

END OF CREDITS

NEW-YORK - AERIAL VIEW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

While the camera is flying over New-York, we keep on hearing the

jazz music.

The camera reaches a round building that looks like a stadium and

starts moving around the building.

HOCKEY GAME - INTERIOR NIGHT

Long shot on the skating rink. A hockey game is in progress on the

rink. The camera follows a player, and then pans on the audience.

The camera stops on a medium shot of Larry and Carol, a couple in

their early fifties. Larry seems fascinated by the game, but Carol

seems to find it boring. She looks at the ceiling, and then puts

her hand over her mouth to suppress a yawn. Larry turns toward

her.

The crowd starts yelling and we guess that one of the players has

done something really good. Carol mockingly claps her hands.

Then she raises her eyes to the ceiling, seeming more bored than

ever.

LARRY'S BUILDING - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

A nice-looking apartment building in New-York.

Full shot of the lobby. We see the street through the glass door.

An uniformed attendant is standing near a counter, on which he is

writing on a book.

Larry and Carol are coming from the street and entering the

building. He is carrying some shopping bags, and she is reading a

newspaper, the Daily News.

The attendant slightly turns around and bows to them. They bow

back to him. He goes back to his book-keeping, and the couple

keeps on walking through the lobby.

They reach the two elevators. Larry presses the call-button on the

wall between the two elevators.

LARRY'S BUILDING - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot inside the cabin of the elevator. The inner door

slides open. Carol enters first, still reading her newspaper.

Larry enters behind her and presses a button on the control panel.

Hearing people's voices, Larry puts his hand on the edge of the

door to keep it from closing.

Paul and Lilian enter the elevator. They are a middle-aged couple.

He is bald and tall, and very smily. She is small, with grey hair.

Lilian has a broad smile when she recognizes Larry and Carol. The

elevator door slides shut. Lilian looks at Carol.

LARRY'S LANDING - HALLWAY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of a very sober and modern hallway. Creme-colored walls,

grey carpeting, dark wooden doors.

We hear the elevator door opening and Carol comes out, followed by

Lilian, Larry and Paul. They all talk together and we can hardly

understand the following dialogue.

The following line, said by Lilian, is clearer and we understand

it better.

Larry and Carol walk away from Lilian and Paul, who remain near

the elevator.

Paul bends down to pick up something on the carpet. Lilian walks

one step in Larry's direction.

Paul starts opening his apartment door, just across the hallway

from the elevator.

The camera pans around toward Larry and Carol. Larry makes a

negative sign with his hand.

Mute conversation between Carol and Larry. Larry evidently doesn't

want to accept Lilian's invitation, but Carol wants to.

Carol starts walking toward Lilian and Paul's apartment, followed

reluctantly by Larry.

The camera pans around during Carol's next line, and we see Carol

entering Lilian an Paul's apartment.

She laughs, and Larry, entering the apartment behind her, utters a

forced laugh.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The cosy apartment of middle upper-class people. The decoration

looks like them.

Medium shot of Lilian walking across the bedroom toward the large

double bed. She walks near the famous treadmill.

Lilian picks up a book on a table near the bed.

Lilian brings the book to Carol.

She is standing near the treadmill. Lilian shows her one of the

diagram in the book.

PAUL'S APPARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

One of the wall could be a bay window, but, for the moment, it is

entirely covered by a beige drape.

Medium shot of Paul bringing a stamp book to Larry.

Larry is seated near a small table, on which Paul puts the book

down. Paul sits down next to Larry.

Paul picks up a special philatelist magnifying glass and puts it

in front of the stamp, for Larry to have a better look at it.

Larry, who is not interested in philately at all, scratches his

head.

He picks up a transparent envelope inside which are several

stamps.

Larry stands up.

He picks up some more stamps from the table.

In the background, behind Larry, we see Carol and Lilian entering

the room.

He turns around to face the women.

We see Paul's hand on Larry's shoulder, pushing him toward the

centre of the room.

A little later.

Full shot of the room. They are all seated around a low table,

Larry and Carol on the sofa, Paul and Lilian on two armchairs.

They've just finished their coffee.

They all laugh.

Larry puts his cup down on the low table.

Larry stands up.

Larry looks at Carol and sits back on the sofa.

The camera moves closer to Carol and Larry.

The camera moves around, away from Larry and Carol, to Paul.

The camera moves around backward, away from Paul and back to Larry

and Carol.

Carol bursts out laughing.

Black screen. Actually, we are in :

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carol and Larry's apartment is quite different from the one we've

just left. It is the apartment of a couple of New-York

intellectuals, with nice, artistic furniture. We hear a door

opening.

Lights are switched on.

Full shot. We see only part of the hall, the camera being in a

corridor, and the walls of the corridor concealing part of the

hall.

Carol enters the apartment, and Larry holds the door for her.

Larry closes the door.

The camera follows Larry walking in the corridor toward :

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Actually there are two large beds in the bedroom, the room being

divided by a partition set between the two beds. The partition is

only a half wall. There is a opening, without door, at each end of

the partition, to go from one section of the room to the other.

Medium shot of Larry taking his jacket off. He puts it on a chair.

The camera turns back to the corridor and Carol, still in the

front hall.

Carol walks in the corridor, toward the bedroom.

She walks into the bedroom.

Larry is seated on his bed. Carol looks at some pills bottles on

the night table.

She goes out of the main part of the room, and the camera follows

her.

She sits down on the other bed and starts taking her shoes off.

Carol stands up from the bed and moves across the room. The

camera, still located in the main part of the room, follows Carol,

so we don't actually see her walking, but we see the partition and

the large clock on it.

Carol reappears on the other side of the partition.

Larry's head appears in the forefront of the shot. He is still

seated on the bed.

MARKET PLACE - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot on a large outdoor antique market place in New-York.

The camera pans along the stands in the market, showing sellers

and customers.

Medium shot on a stand around which Larry, Carol, Sy and Marilyn

are standing. Sy and Marilyn are a couple about the same age as

Carol and Larry.

Sy looks at some of the antique displayed on the stand.

MOVIE THEATER - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the screen of the theater, on which the film Double

Indemnity is shown. And under the screen, in the dark, the back

of some of the spectator's heads.

This film is a very famous 1944 film directed by Billy Wilder, and

referred by the Library of Congress as one of the hundred best

films of the Twentieth Century. The term double indemnity refers

to a clause in certain life insurance policies that doubles the

payout in cases when death is caused by certain accidental means.

The third character in the sequence, Phyliss Dietrichson, played

by Barbara Stanwyck, is half-hiding behind a wall.

NEW-YORK - LARRY'S RESIDENCE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the street, where Larry's apartment building is

located. The camera is set near the entrance of the building, and

Carol and Larry are walking toward us.

She laughs. They have reached their building. The camera turns

around to follows them inside the building. Larry puts his hand on

Carol's back to guide her inside the building. We see an ambulance

revolving light reflected in the glass door of the building.

The camera is still on the sidewalk near the entrance of the

building and we see Carol and Larry walking toward the elevators.

LARRY'S LANDING - HALLWAY - INTERIOR NIGHT

A short black screen, which actually is just a close shot on the

outer door of the elevator. This door slides open, and we get a

medium shot of Larry and Carol inside the elevator.

They seem surprised by what they see on the landing. There is a

gathering of neighbors, which we don't yet see. But we hear their

voices.

The camera follows Larry walking toward the group of neighbors.

Paul's door is wide open.

He is answered by a tall male neighbor.

The camera turns around to show us inside the apartment. There is

a stretcher standing in the corridor. On the stretcher, a body -

Lilian's body - is covered by a white sheet. Three men are

standing near the stretcher, one of them wearing green gloves and

writing on a clipboard, another one carrying a black leather case

(he is evidently a doctor).

The camera turns back to the tall neighbor standing near the front

door. A policeman enters the apartment.

The camera turns back inside the corridor. The doctor is coming

toward the front door.

The camera turns back toward the group of neighbors.

NEW-YORK - LARRY'S RESIDENCE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot on the entrance of Larry's building. Larry and Carol are

coming out. They are very elegantly dressed, Larry wearing a suit

and a necktie.

Paul is coming down the street toward the entrance of the

building. He is carrying some grocery in a paper bag.

Paul seems very relax. He smiles a lot, which could be surprising,

when we understand he put his wife in the grave only a couple of

days ago.

He walks away toward the entrance of the building, still smiling a

lot and looking very happy. Carol looks at him with a question on

her face.

THE METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Long shot on the Met building.

We hear the music from Wagner's The Flying Dutchman.

The camera slowly tilts down. We don't see Carol and Larry yet,

but we hear their voices.

The camera is now on ground level, and we see Carol and Larry

coming out of the Met.

They cross the esplanade in front of the Met.

ELAINE'S RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine's is a cosy place, like there are many around Greenwich

Village.

Carol and Larry are eating at Elaine's with Sy, Marilyn and Ted.

Ted is a quite handsome man in his forties.

We get a medium full view of the party, with a very mobile camera

moving around the table and going from one person to another,

getting closer to one person, then moving slightly away.

Carol is laughing very heartily at Ted's joke.

That's great.

I like a... It's disgusting.

you know what I mean ?

It's disgusting, but a... It's fatal.

Wouldn't that be great ?

I'd like to French-pastry myself to death right now.

I'll help you.

I really would.

All right.

In fact, I'd like another piece of pie, right after this.

Do I dare ? I like yours better than this.

Are you gonna start a restaurant ? Are you serious about

that ?

You really should. you're a great cook.

Because, if you do, count me in. I wanna be part of that.

Really.

Really ?

You should.

No. Well, I don't know. I mean, you... Are you serious ?

Yeah. Oh, oh, God, it'd be wonderful.

What are you encouraging her for ? It's so...

She's great. She's a great cook.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot of Carol coming out of the bathroom. She switches the

bathroom light off. She is wearing a pink night dress.

The camera turns toward Larry's bed, in which Larry is already

lying. He has a book in his hands.

Carol puts something on the night-table on her side of the bed.

She looks at some pills bottles on the night table.

She picks up a hair brush.

Carol starts walking toward the other section of the room. The

camera follows her.

Carol stops in front of a large mirror set on the wall in one

corner of the room.

Carol starts brushing her hair.

Carol walks to a chest of drawers, on top of which she drops the

hairbrush. Then she switches the lights off in the other section

of the bedroom, and walks back to the bed.

She sits down on her side of the bed, and takes her socks off.

While talking, Larry puts the book and his glasses on the night-

table. Carol switches the light off on her night table and gets

into the bed.

He switches the lights off on his bed table. The room is

completely dark, and we hear the next sentences on a black screen.

Carol bursts out laughing. The phone starts ringing.

He switches the light back on, puts his glasses on his nose and

picks up the phone.

He gives the phone receiver to Carol.

RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot of Ted, dressed in a night-gown, and standing near the

counter of a restaurant. The room is very dark, only lit by a lamp

on the counter.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carols bursts out laughing.

Larry is trying to get the telephone cord, stretched from his

night-table to the handset hold by Carol, away from his face.

She gives the handset to Larry.

RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close shot on Ted, drinking from a mug.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot of Ted.

NEW-YORK - A YARD - EXTERIOR DAY

A yard in the middle of old New-York buildings.

The camera is located at the inner end of the passage leading from

the street to the yard. We gets a full shot of Carol and Ted

coming from the street and walking toward us and the yard.

They have reached the yard. The camera moves back to get a medium

shot of them both.

The camera leaves Carol and Ted in the middle of the yard and

moves up and around to show us the old building around the yard.

The camera moves down to ground level to give us a better view of

the yard. It does look a bit neglected, with weeds growing in

between the stones covering the ground. There are some trees and a

small out-of-order fountain with a statue on top of it.

The camera moves back to Carol and Ted.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot of the corridor, showing the front door. Paul opens

the front door. Larry and Carol are standing in the doorway. Larry

is wearing a necktie and Carol is carrying a large tray.

Paul takes the tray from Carol's hands.

Carol enters the apartment, followed by Larry.

Larry closes the door behind him.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

They all enter the living room.

She takes the tray from Paul's hands.

She walks to the kitchen, carrying the tray.

He turns to his desk to pick up a stamp album.

The camera pans to the kitchen.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

The conversation between Paul and Larry keeps going in the living-

room but we can't understand the words.

Carol puts water in the glass jar of the coffee machine. She puts

the lid on the jar and turns around to put the jar in the machine.

She looks in the coffee plastic container and notices there is no

coffee inside. She bends down and opens the cupboard door. Not

finding any coffee in the cupboard, she closes it, stands up and

turns around to look inside the cupboard above the sink. She

closes it, and bends down to look inside the cupboard next to the

dishwasher. She seems surprised by something and pauses. Then she

takes a copper funeral urn from inside the cupboard. She stands up

and takes the lid off the urn. She looks inside the urn and closes

it. She seems a bit shocked and bends down to put the urn back

inside the cupboard. Then she stands up and looks absently around

her.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

A little later.

Full shot of the room. Larry and Carol are sitting next to each

other on the sofa. Carol is drinking coffee from a cup, and Larry

is staring, with his arms crossed on his chest, looking a little

bored. Paul is sitting on an armchair and eating the floating

islands from a plate he is holding in his other hand.

The camera moves closer to Larry and Carol.

Larry looks at his wife. He has a little difficulty to come back

into a conversation he wasn't following.

The camera pans to Paul. He has put his plate on the low table.

He wipes his lips with his napkin.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot. Larry enters the apartment, followed by Carol, who

then walks in front of him.

He closes the door behind him.

He walks into the living-room.

Larry picks up his jacket from the back of an armchair.

The camera pans across the hall toward the kitchen. She has a box

(cereals ?) in her hand.

She puts the box in a cupboard above the sink. Then she picks up

the phone on the wall.

The camera pans back to the living-room and Larry. Larry walks

behind a partition, still holding his jacket. The camera follows

his movement.

Larry puts the jacket on something we don't see because it is

hidden by the partition. Then he picks up a brochure on a low

table and walks toward the kitchen. The camera follows him.

Carol is still standing in the kitchen, with the phone handset on

her ear.

Larry walks away from the kitchen.

TED'S APARTMENT - SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Ted is lying on a large comfortable sofa, sipping beer from a

bottle.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carol is still standing up, the telephone handset stuck between

her ear and her shoulder.

TED'S APARTMENT - SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the kitchen, seen from the hall. Carol is still

standing up but now she holding the phone handset with her hand.

Larry walks back into the kitchen.

She puts the phone back on its hook on the wall

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Later in the night.

Medium shot on the bed. Larry is asleep, but Carol is not. She

moves in the bed, and then sits up. She turns around, pats her

pillow, and tries to lie back on her side. But she sits up again,

looking around the room. Eventually, she gets out of the bed.

She walks around the bed in the dark, and switches on the lights

in the corridor. The camera follows her in the corridor.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carol switches the lights on in the hall, then she looks into the

peephole in the front door.

The camera turns around toward the corridor. Larry is getting out

of the bedroom, putting his slippers on.

Carol walks in the corridor toward him.

Larry hops toward her, still trying to put his slippers on. She

backs up and they are now both in the front hall.

While Larry is answering her, Carol opens the front door and peeks

into the hallway.

Carol closes the door, and walks toward the kitchen. The camera

follows her.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carol looks through a notebook.

Larry joins Carol when she already has the handset in her hand.

But she succeeds in dialing Paul's number.

Carol listens to the phone.

Larry takes the handset from Carol's hand.

While Carol walks out of the kitchen, Larry puts the phone back on

its hook on the wall.

Carol walks into the hall. The camera follows her.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carol picks up the building internal telephone handset from the

wall.

While she was talking on the phone, the camera has moved toward

Larry, standing at the entrance of the kitchen.

We hear the noise of the phone being put back on its hook.

Larry joins his wife in the hall.

She starts walking back to the bedroom. Larry follows her. The

camera remains in the front hall, filming them.

They disappear in the bedroom.

NEW-YORK - LARRY'S RESIDENCE STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot on the crossroad between the street where Larry's

residence is located and another street. Carol is crossing the

street. She stops walking while on the crosswalk. The camera zooms

on her and we see an expression of surprise on her face.

Reverse angle long shot on the entrance of Larry's building. Paul

comes out of the building. The camera zooms on him : he looks

around him as if afraid to be followed.

Reverse angle shot on Carol looking at him from a distance. She

enters her building. She smiles to the attendant on duty.

LARRY'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of Carol walking down the staircase leading to the

basement. We see her through the glass panel of a heavy metal

safety door. She opens the door.

The camera follows Carol to a reverse angle shot showing the

workshop of Jack, the factotum caretaker of the building. With a

screwdriver and a plier in his hands, he is working on something

we don't see.

Jack walks out of his workshop and along one of the basement

corridors.

The camera follows Jack walking away.

The camera turns around to a reverse angle shot on Carol, still in

the workshop. She looks around, apparently looking for something.

She peeks through the door of the workshop, to make sure Jack is

not coming back too early. Carol rushes to a key-box on the wall,

into which there is a spare key for every apartment in the

building. She selects a key, takes it out of the box and puts it

in her pocket. Then she leaves the workshop toward the staircase.

LARRY'S LANDING - HALLWAY - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the hallway. Carol comes out of the elevator, and

looks around her. She walks back and forth in the hallway, before

coming back to Paul's apartment door, just in front of the

elevator. She opens the door with the key she has just stolen in

Jack's workshop.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the front door, seen from the living room. The front

corridor is completely dark. The door opens and Carol walks in.

She closes the door behind her.

Carol walks toward the living room, and the light coming from the

windows.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Carol crosses the kitchen. She kneels down to look into the

cupboard where she had found the funeral urn. Apparently the urn

is not there anymore.

NEW YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot on a crosswalk in New-York. Paul is crossing the street.

The camera zooms on Paul. He has almost crossed the street, but he

suddenly stops a few feet from the next sidewalk. He feels his

jacket : apparently he has forgotten something in his apartment.

He turns around and starts walking back on the crosswalk.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Carol is still looking in all the cupboards of the kitchen. She

gets out of the kitchen into the living-room.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The camera pans around the room, following Carol, who looks inside

every piece of furniture in the room.

NEW YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Paul walking along the sidewalk, going back toward

his apartment.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Carol has picked up a few papers from a low table, and is looking

at them. She puts her hand into her trouser pocket to get her

glasses out. She puts her glasses on to have a better look at the

documents she has found.

LARRY'S BUILDING - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Through the window of the lobby, we get a full shot of Paul coming

toward the entrance of the building. An attendant rushes to open

the door for him.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Carol is sitting at the desk. She has opened the drawer of the

desk and is looking through its content. She takes an Air France

ticket folder out of the drawer and looks inside it. Then she

picks up another one.

LARRY'S BUILDING - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Paul entering the elevator.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Carol closes the drawer of the desk. She stands up and picks up

the phone from the desk and starts dialing a number.

TED'S APARTMENT - SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the room, which is quite wide. Ted is seated at his

desk, and the shot is taken from the other side of the room,

showing Ted's back. The phone rings. Ted picks it up.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot of Carol speaking on the phone.

LARRY'S BUILDING - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot of Paul inside the cabin of the elevator. He

gives a quick look up to the floor numbers above the door.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Same shot of Carol on the phone.

TED'S APARTMENT - SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot of Ted's back. He is still seated at his desk and

talking on the phone

The camera moves around Ted, showing the typewriter he is typing

on.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Same shot of Carol on the phone.

She turns around, because she feels she heard a noise in the

landing hallway.

LARRY'S LANDING - HALLWAY - INTERIOR DAY

One of Paul's neighbor is standing in the hallway, waiting for the

elevator. He's got some documents in his hand. The elevator dings

and the door opens. Paul comes out.

Paul has his key in his hand and is ready to open his apartment

door.

Paul turns around to look at the neighbor.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot on Carol, whispering in the phone and looking toward

the front door.

TED'S APARTMENT - SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up shot on the ashtray, where a cigarette is burning slowly.

The camera pans to a close-up shot on Paul's face, still on the

phone.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Carol puts the phone down on the desk. She stands and turns around

when she hears the front door opening.

Black screen shot on the front door in the dark of the corridor,

then the camera quickly spins around to show Carol, standing in

the living-room, with a frightened look on her face. She walks

away from the room. The camera spins back to the front door, which

opens. Paul enters and switches the lights on. He closes the front

door, and walks along the corridor to the living-room.

Carol walks into the kitchen from the living-room.

The camera pans to Paul, looking for something on his desk. He

looks through all the documents scattered on the desk.

The camera pans back to Carol, hiding in the kitchen, then back to

Paul.

Paul opens both his hands in a gesture of despair : apparently, he

hasn't found what he was looking for. He starts walking across the

room, and the camera pans back to Carol in the kitchen. She rushes

out of the kitchen.

The camera remains at the same spot, and we see Paul in the

living-room, still looking for whatever he is missing. He walks

out of the living-room through the kitchen.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Paul enters the room, looking in the inner pocket of his jacket.

He walks around the room, and opens a closet. He looks through the

hanging clothes, and finds a few documents in one of the jackets.

He closes the closet, and starts looking through the documents he

has found. He puts them inside the inner pocket of his jacket. He

starts walking out of the room, when the phone rings. He stops and

picks up the phone receiver on one of the night-tables.

Medium shot of Carol hiding under the bed. We notice she doesn't

have her glasses anymore.

Back to Paul standing by the bed and talking in the telephone.

He puts the phone down on its hook, and starts walking out of the

room. He stops, thinks for a couple of seconds, turns around, sits

on the bed and picks up the phone.

Back to Carol under the bed. The bed frame hits her back when Paul

sits on it. She looks up. We hear Paul dialing a number.

Back to Paul sitting on the bed. He puts the phone down on its

hook, stands up and starts walking out of the room.

Back to Carol under the bed, waiting for Paul to get out of his

apartment.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Starting from street level, the camera tilts up along a very

modern office building, all glass and steel. A sign, above the

main entrance, says 10 East 53. This is the building where

Larry's office is located.

LARRY'OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of a large office room. In the forefront, a reception

desk, with a young female receptionist talking to someone we still

don't see. Coming from the other end of the room, Larry is walking

with Marcia, a tall dark-haired lady, wearing sunglasses.

They are now at the reception desk level, and, since the camera is

following them, we can see the young gentleman the receptionist is

talking with.

They are now walking along a corridor.

They have now reached a smaller room, actually Larry's private

room. Marcia takes her glasses off, and then her coat, and sits on

a sofa.

The camera pans to Larry, who is standing up at the other end of

the room, looking through some documents.

Larry sits down with the pile of documents on his laps. The camera

pans back to Marcia. She has a cigarette in her hand.

The camera pans back to Larry, who is looking through the huge

pile of paper on his laps, perhaps a manuscript.

The phone rings.

Larry picks up the phone from a small table.

The camera pans back to Marcia, who listens to Larry, smoking her

cigarette.

The camera pans back to Larry.

He puts the telephone down on its hook.

The camera pans back to Marcia, who is smiling.

She crushes her cigarette in and ashtray and stands up.

NEW-YORK - A PARK - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot of a round concrete pond, with a fountain in the middle

pouring water. In the background, a meadow, with chairs scattered

on it. Carol is standing by the pond. Larry is talking to her,

looking very nervous.

Carol starts walking around the pond. Larry follows her.

They keep on walking around the pond, the camera following them

from a fixed location. They are now hidden by the fountain.

They appear back from behind the fountain.

They keep on walking around the pond, slowly coming back toward

the camera, which moves a little to meet them.

They are back at the same place where we saw them first by the

pond. They stop walking.

Larry looks at her with a very puzzled eye.

LARRY'S LANDING - HALLWAY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium close shot on Paul's apartment front door. We get a close

shot of the back of Carol's head. The door opens on Paul.

Carol walks rapidly inside the apartment, followed by Larry. Paul

looks a bit surprised by this intrusion. He follows them along the

corridor. He doesn't even close his front door !

PAUL'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The camera follows the three persons along the corridor.

The shot becoming a bit wider, we notice that Paul is carrying the

tray of chocolate mousse that Carol gave him when entering his

apartment.

Paul walks out of the corridor toward his kitchen, and Carol

rushes into the living-room.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

They both start searching the room frenetically. While Larry looks

on the desk, Carol searches the rest of the room, even kneeling on

the floor.

Larry drops things on the floor. With a nervous gesture, Carol

shushes him.

The camera pans to the kitchen, where Paul is preparing the

dessert.

The camera pans back to the living room, where Larry is still

nervously messing things on the desk. Then he starts moving around

the room, looking for his wife's glasses. Carol puts things back

in order on the desk. Larry walks to her, and whisper something we

can't understand.

Paul walks into the room, with a pair of glasses in his hand.

Carol and Larry both look very nervous. Carol takes the glasses

from Paul's hand.

Carol and Larry both look very embarrassed. Paul looks at them

with a slight surprised eye.

She turns toward Paul, who has remained very calm.

He walks away to the kitchen, with a strange smile on his face.

Carol looks at Larry with a meaning look, to make him stop

rambling.

Carol walks away toward the kitchen.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot of Carol waiting under the awning of a place

(hotel or club) called the Five Hundred. She hears a car

stopping and she looks at the street.

Carol runs to the car.

Carol climbs into the car and closes the door.

The car drives away, with Ted's voice fading as the car gets away

from us.

NEW-YORK - BANK STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Full view of the corner of two very quiet streets. A brick

building covered with vines. The camera pans away from the

building to Ted's car parked on the other side of the street

corner. Medium shot of the inside of the car, through the open

window on the passenger's side, Carol's side.

They look at each other and laugh.

Slightly later. Medium shot through the windshield. The view is a

little blurred by the daylight reflection on the windshield.

Ted looks through the paper food-bag he has brought with him.

The camera pans to the other corner of the street. Two people, a

male and a female, are coming out of the brick building.

Neither one of the couple has turned around at the sound of Ted's

yelling, and they start walking down the street, away from the

corner.

The camera pans back to the car, looking through the open window

on the passenger's side. Carol is hiding under the dashboard. Ted

is hiding his face with his paper bag, holding a paper cup in the

other hand.

She sits back in her seat.

Carol laughs.

She keeps on laughing. Ted starts laughing too.

Slightly later. It is raining. It is still the same medium shot

through the passenger's window, but the window is now closed, with

the rain pouring on the window-pane.

The camera pans away from the car to the other corner of the

street. Someone is coming out of the brick building. It is

apparently a male wearing white pants. He opens an umbrella.

The camera follows the man with white pants, while he is crossing

the street on the other side of the street from the car.

The camera is back behind the passenger's window of the car.

Though the car-windows, we see the white-pants-man walking on the

sidewalk on the other side of the street. Ted and Carol do not

seem to notice him at all.

Slightly later. The rain has stopped. Same shot through the

passenger's window of the car, but the window is now open again.

A long pause. Ted and Carol seem to be both lost them in their own

thoughts. Then Ted gives a look outside and comes back to

attention.

The camera pans to the other side of the street. A woman is coming

out of the brick building.

On the other side of the street, the woman has stopped and is

looking around her.

The woman starts walking again on the sidewalk.

The woman has reached the corner of the street and she lifts her

arm.

A yellow cab stops near the woman.

The woman opens the cab door and climbs into it.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot of a street covered with a metal structure. We could be

under a commuter train bridge. The yellow cab is driving toward

us. The cab stops at the corner of the street with another street.

The woman comes out of the cab, and walks away on the sidewalk of

the other street. The camera pans back to the first street and we

see Ted's car coming toward us. The camera stops at the corner of

the street and Carol walks out of the car. She runs in the

direction of Helen, and waves Ted to join her. The camera pans to

the end of the street, which actually is a dead end street with

the back door of a movie house. The woman enters the movie house.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of a door leading to an emergency stair way. Helen,

the woman we just saw coming out of the yellow cab, is coming down

the steps and through the door. She is blonde, young and pretty.

Behind Helen, Paul is coming out of the stairway. Helen has

stopped to look around her.

The camera pans away from the couple toward the main hall of the

movie house. It is an old-fashioned movie house, with red velvet

seats, and a carved balcony.

The camera keeps on panning around the room.

We hear moaning and kissing sounds.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - BACKSTAGE - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the backstage behind the screen. In a corner, a

stairway going to the top of the backstage. Half-hidden on the

stairway, Carol and Ted.

The camera pans to the back of the screen, in front of which Paul

and Helen are standing.

The camera pans around the room, where a lot of huge mirrors are

stacked.

The camera tilts down to give us a closer shot on the mirrors.

The camera tilts back up on Paul and Helen.

Paul looks around, a bit worried.

The camera pans to the other side of the room, where a middle-aged

woman with red curly hair has just entered. She is Gladys Dalton,

Paul's assistant. She is walking with the help of a cane.

Gladys Dalton starts going out of the room and the camera tilts up

on the stairway, on which Ted and Carol are still hiding.

Ted and Carol are moving away from the stairway, which remains

empty.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close shot on the clock on the wall : the time is just after one

o'clock. The room is completely dark and the clock is the only

source of light. The camera pans to the bed and on Carol, sound

asleep. We hear a noise, like an object dropping down. Carol

instantly wakes up. She gets up and the camera pans to Larry,

still asleep. He eventually wakes up, moves around in the bed,

takes his glasses from the night-table and put them on his nose.

Slowly Larry gets out of the bed.

Larry starts walking along the corridor.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larry has reached the front hall. Carol is looking through the

peephole of the front door.

Carol walks along the corridor toward the bedroom. Larry follows

her.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carol is putting her shoes on.

Carol walks back through the corridor toward the front hall. Larry

follows her.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

He points to the bedroom.

She opens the front door and walks out of the apartment.

LARRY'S LANDING - HALLWAY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the landing. Carol is walking rapidly toward us and

Paul's apartment. Larry walks behind her. Carol takes Paul's key

out of her pocket and tries to open the front door. But she takes

the wrong key on the keyring.

Larry takes her by the shoulders.

She opens the door.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the front door, seen from the living room. A small

lamp is still lit on a low table. The door opens and Carol walks

in, followed by Larry.

She closes the front door.

She rests her hands on the telephone, which is next to the lamp.

The camera zooms to a close shot on the telephone. Carol picks it

up.

The camera zooms backward to Carol with the phone handset to her

ear.

She listens to the phone.

She puts her hand on the phone microphone and turns toward Larry.

She puts the phone handset back to her ear.

He takes the handset from her hand and slams it down.

She walks away from the phone table.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Carol enters the bedroom, followed by Larry.

She starts looking through the mail scattered on a table.

He starts looking through the mail.

As he takes some more letters, Larry hits a small porcelain

statuette, and drops it on the floor, where it breaks. He bends

down to pick up the debris.

Larry stands up.

He looks at the porcelain pieces in his hands.

She moves around the room.

She shows him a pair of gloves she just picked up on a low table.

He pushes her toward the exit of the room.

NEW-YORK - CLUB TWENTY-ONE - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of the famous entrance of the club 21, with the line

of painted cast iron lawn jockey statues which adorns the balcony

above the entrance. The camera zooms backward to give a full shot

of the entrance of the club.

NEW-YORK - CLUB TWENTY-ONE - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot on the lobby of the club. On the right, a counter with

an attendant behind the counter. Facing us the entrance of the

main room. Carol, Larry, and their son Nick, are coming out of the

room. Nick must be in his early twenties.

The camera moves around the three people as they walk toward the

cloakroom.

They've stopped in front of the cloakroom.

Larry walks across the lobby, because he has seen someone he knows

in the sitting-room. He waves his hand and comes back to his wife

and his son.

The camera pans around, to show us Marcia crossing the sitting-

room.

Marcia has reached the lobby.

The two women shake hands.

Marcia shakes hands with Nick.

Marcia walks away.

Larry gives his ticket to the cloakroom attendant, whom we don't

see.

Larry gives her purse to Carol.

They start walking toward the entrance of the club.

They walk out of the club.

NEW-YORK - A LOUNGE - INTERIOR DAY

This is very nice lounge in New-York, very tastefully decorated.

It looks like one of those old English Club in London. Beautiful

paintings on the walls, and even stained glasses on the windows.

This is where the wine-tasting is taking place. The camera pans

around the room. We see people talking while holding wine-glasses.

We hear Ted and Carol's conversation without seeing them yet.

The camera has reached Ted and Carol and follows them walking in

the room.

We now get a medium shot of Carol and Ted walking toward us.

They have reach a large window, where they can get a view of the

park on the other side of the street.

He sits down. She sits down on the sofa besides him. Behind them,

you see the park through the windows.

Ted looks at his watch.

Carol laughs.

He stands up and bumps into a low table in front of the sofa.

Carol looks at him walking away with a strange expression in her

eyes.

NEW-YORK - STREET IN FRONT OF THE LOUNGE - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium tracking shot of Ted walking on the sidewalk, coming from

the lounge and toward us.

Medium low-angle shot of one of the window of the lounge, seen

from the street. This shot is low-angled because the lounge is

located slightly above street level. Carol is seated in front of

the window, looking very pensive. She takes a sip of her glass of

wine. She looks absently though the window.

NEW-YORK - A LOUNGE - INTERIOR DAY

The street seen through the window, next to which Carol is seated,

but we don't actually see Carol. We see a big car, followed by a

bus. The camera zooms on the bus. Through one of the bus windows,

we see a woman, seated inside the bus. And this woman looks very

much like the deceased Lilian, Paul's wife.

NEW-YORK - STREET IN FRONT OF THE LOUNGE - EXTERIOR DAY

Close shot on the window, in front of which Carol is seated. She

looks at the passing bus, with a wide open mouth, and a surprised,

almost frightened, expression on her face. She stands up a little

and then sits back.

NEW-YORK - A LOUNGE - INTERIOR DAY

Full view of the room. In the background, Carol, still seated by

the window. She stands up, picks up her purse, and starts crossing

the room, bumping into people. She reaches the staircase, and

walks downstairs.

NEW-YORK - STREET IN FRONT OF THE LOUNGE - EXTERIOR DAY

Full view on the entrance of the lounge. Carol is walking rapidly

down the stairs leading to the entrance. She reaches the sidewalk,

and looks around her for the bus. She walks away from the lounge

and toward us, with the camera on a tracking shot in front of her.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Larry working in the kitchen, putting things away

in the cupboards. Behind him, we see the front hall. The front

door opens and Carol walks in.

Carols closes the door and leans on the wall. But Larry doesn't

seem to understand that something is wrong with her. He walks away

to the sitting room. He keeps on talking in voice over, while

Carol is still leaning on the wall of the front hall.

Larry comes back in the kitchen and looks at his wife, but still

doesn't seem to notice that something is wrong. We follow Larry

into the sitting-room.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Larry is setting the table for dinner

The camera pans to Carol standing at the entrance of the room and

leaning on the wall

Larry joins Carol.

Larry walks away toward the kitchen. Carol follows him.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Larry is checking his cooking.

Larry takes two wine-glasses out of the sink.

Larry puts the glasses away on the dinner table.

They walk into the sitting-room.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

He opens the dish he had put earlier on the table.

The phone rings.

She picks up the phone from the wall. Larry sits at the table.

Larry opens the red wine bottle and pours some wine in his glass.

Larry puts the cork back on the bottle.

Larry stands up and walks toward Carol.

He takes the phone from Carol's hand.

Larry talks to Ted on the phone.

He puts the phone down.

Larry sits back at the table.

She walks away toward the front hall.

Carol comes back into the room.

Carol walks again to the front hall and comes back toward the

sitting room, via the kitchen.

She takes a drink on water in the kitchen.

LARRY'S BUILDING - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot of Larry and Carol coming out of the lift. They cross

the lobby. Jack, the caretaker of the building in standing near

the entrance of the building.

Larry gives some banknotes to Jack.

THEATER - AUDIENCE HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the audience watching the show. We hear music. In the

forefront, Carol and Larry. Larry is taping his chin with the

program. Carol turns toward Larry and starts whispering.

The lady, sitting next to Larry, just gave the couple a bad look,

and Carol taps on Larry's arm.

A short pause.

NEW-YORK - STREET IN FRONT OF THE LOUNGE - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot of Ted and Carol walking toward us in a quiet street.

Actually it is the street where the wine-tasting lounge is

located, and, of course, the street where Carol saw the bus with

Lilian on board of it. They walk near the entrance of the

National Arts Club. Ted is holding a small notebook and looking

at what is has written in it.

Carol stops in front of the building next to the National Arts

Club. It is the building where they had the wine-tasting session

the day before.

The camera tilts up to show the window behind which Carol was

sitting the day before.

The camera tilts back down to Ted and Carol.

Carol shows Ted the spot where she saw the bus.

She walks in the middle of the street.

A car is honking. Carol, still standing in the middle of the

street, moves out of the way of the car.

Ted joins Carol in the middle of the street.

They walk to the sidewalk on the other side of the street, where

the park is located.

They start walking on the sidewalk, going the way where they first

came from.

NEW-YORK - A WIDE AVENUE - EXTERIOR DAY

This is not a nice area anymore. It is a wide dingy-looking

avenue, with the nearest buildings very far away and a road bridge

over the street. And it is raining.

Long shot of the avenue, with Carol and Ted walking further away.

A bus is coming toward them.

The bus slows down.

Ted pushes Carol so she doesn't get soaked by the bus driving very

close to the sidewalk and into the pools of rain.

The bus makes a U-turn on the avenue.

NEW-YORK - STREET IN FRONT OF THE LOUNGE - EXTERIOR DAY

They are back in the same street where the wine-tasting place is

located.

Full shot of the park across the street, seen across the thick

vertical bars of the railings that surround the park. Ted and

Carol are walking on a lane in the park.

The camera follows Ted and Carol, moving on the other side of the

railings.

Carol has just stopped walking, and she is looking at something on

the other side of the railings.

The camera pans around to a reverse angle shot of the other side

of the street. It stops on a building. On the awning above the

entrance of the building is written : Hotel Waldron. The camera

stops on that shot and doesn't move anymore.

Medium shot of Ted talking into the handset of a pay-phone on the

street.

The camera pans to Carol, standing in the street near Ted.

A RESTAURANT - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot on a restaurant. This part of the restaurant is empty.

Only two people, Larry and Marcia, are seated at a table behind a

set of crossed wooden bars, on the other side of which the camera

is located. Apparently Marcia is teaching Larry how to play poker.

Marcia wears sunglasses and has a cigarette stuck between her

lips.

Marcia shuffles the cards.

The camera pans away from the two players to another section of

the restaurant, where a few people are still eating. It looks like

a very good restaurant, with waiters dressed with white shirt and

black vest.

The camera pans back on Larry and Marcia. This is a different

shot, with the camera in front of their table. Marcia seems very

relaxed with the cards in her hands, when Larry seems quite

nervous. He holds the card very close to his eyes, seeming afraid

that his partner will look at them.

Larry shuffles his cards in his hand, hesitating on his next move.

She gives him his four cards.

Marcia looks at her cards. Larry keeps shuffling his cards very

nervously.

NEW-YORK - STREET OUTSIDE THE WALDRON HOTEL - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the entrance of the Waldron Hotel. The pavement is

wet but it doesn't seem to rain anymore. The camera pans to a car

parked on the other side of the street a short distance from the

hotel. This is Larry's car, with Larry seated behind the wheel and

Carol seated on the passenger's seat. Medium shot of the inside of

the car, seen through the open window.

The camera starts moving around the car.

The camera stops moving on another medium shot, where we still see

Larry through his open window, but we see Carol only through the

wet windshield.

He stops smiling because he just saw something in front of his

car, something we don't yet see, because the camera hasn't moved

from its position.

The camera starts panning very rapidly toward the entrance of the

hotel.

A lady carrying a white open umbrella is entering the hotel.

The camera starts panning back toward Larry's car.

Medium shot of Larry and Carol in the car, seen through Larry's

open window.

Yeah. I know.

I told you so.

What do you mean, you told me so ? What are you talking

about ? You're nuts, honey.

Oh, Jesus. I'm flabbergasted.

Yeah. No, look. You're white. You're completely white.

I know. All the blood rushed to my brother.

Larry !

I don't know what to do.

Let's go. Let's get out there. Let's find out what's going

on.

No, I don't want to.

Oh, come on. Y-You're not afraid of her, are you ?

No, I'm not afraid.

You're not afraid of Mrs. House.

She's an old woman and I'm a virile male.

I know.

And yet somehow I am scared. I don't know why. Maybe

because she's dead. You know ?

Let's go. You know, I tell you, I'm gonna break this thing

wide open.

Well, how ? What do you want to do ?

I'm... You know, I'm... God, if only Ted were here with us

Carol gets out of the car.

Larry gets out of the car.

HOTEL WALDRON - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

A modern clean lobby, with a very conventional decoration. Medium

shot of a clerk cleaning the lobby floor with a broom. She is a

woman in her forties, very casually dressed with a flowered blouse

and a beige sweater, and with uncombed hair hanging on her

shoulders.

The camera pans around toward the street door. Carol enters the

lobby, followed by Larry. Carol is holding a small present-wrapped

parcel in her hand and walks toward the clerk.

Larry takes the parcel from Carol's hand.

He gives the parcel back to Carol.

Carols walks away, but Larry stays with the clerk. He takes a

banknote out of his pocket.

He gives the banknote to the clerk, who seems a bit surprised by

Larry's attitude and present. She looks at the banknote.

Larry walks toward Carol, who is waiting for the elevator.

HOTEL WALDRON - SIXTH FLOOR HALLWAY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on the elevator door opening. Carol walks out,

followed by Larry, who closes the door. Carol starts looking

around for room numbers. The camera follows them

The camera stops at the beginning of a long narrow corridor. Carol

and Larry walk along the corridor, away from the camera.

They have stopped walking at the end of the corridor, in front of

a door. Carol knocks on that door.

Carol knocks louder on the door, helped by Larry. Under Larry's

fist, the door opens slowly.

HOTEL WALDRON - ROOM 611 - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot on the door, that opens slowly.

Carol enters the room, followed by Larry.

The camera starts panning around the room, up to the window, then

starts panning back toward Carol and Larry.

The camera is back on Carol and Larry. Larry is looking inside a

closet.

He closes the closet door. Carol yells.

She runs to the beds and look down on the floor between the two

twin beds. She drops the parcel on the floor.

Carol kneels down on the floor, bending on something she just saw

on the floor. The camera follows her movement and we see a human

hand resting on the floor, the rest of the body being hidden by

one of the bed.

Carol, still kneeling on the floor, straightens up and looks at

Larry.

He helps Carol to stand up.

They both start running out of the room.

HOTEL WALDRON - SIXTH FLOOR HALLWAY - INTERIOR DAY

Same shot of the long corridor as before. We see Carol and Larry

coming out Room 611 and running toward us.

They reach the end of the corridor, and the camera follows them as

they run around the corner of the hallway.

They don't use the elevator and instead run down the stairs.

NEW-YORK - STREET OUTSIDE THE WALDRON HOTEL - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot of the entrance of the hotel, seen from the other side

of the street. A blue police car is parked in front of the hotel.

Two plainclothes police officers and one uniformed policeman are

talking with Carol and Larry. They both try to explain the

situation to the police officers. But since they both talk

together, the police officers have a hard time understanding them.

While they are talking, the camera zooms forward from a long shot

to a full shot of the group.

One of the plainclothes police officers stops their talking.

He starts climbing the few steps to the entrance of the hotel,

followed by Carol and Larry. The other police officer remains on

the sidewalk.

HOTEL WALDRON - ROOM 611 - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot of an uniformed policeman, different from the

one we just saw in the street.

The camera pans from the uniformed policeman to the two police

officers talking with Carol and Larry in the middle of the room.

The following dialogue transcript separates what Larry says from

what Carol says, but, most of the time, they talk together at the

same time, making it quite difficult for us, or for the police

officers, to follow their conversation.

The camera tilts down on one of the police officers looking under

the bed.

NEW-YORK - STREET OUTSIDE THE WALDRON HOTEL - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Carol, Larry, the first plainclothes police officer

and the uniformed policeman we first saw in the street.

The second plainclothes police officer joins the group.

He gives his business card to Larry.

The two police officers walk away with the uniformed policeman.

Larry looks at the card in his hand.

They start walking away on the sidewalk, while the police officers

are climbing in their car.

A CAFETERIA - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of a classical New-York cafeteria. Rows of table on

either side of the room, each table surrounded by beige imitation-

leather twin seats. Another row of table in the middle of the

room, with chairs around them. Huge electrical fans hanging from

the ceiling.

The camera pans on the left to a medium shot of the table around

which Larry and Carol are seated. They are drinking beer.

NEW-YORK - STREET OUTSIDE THE WALDRON HOTEL - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of Carol and Larry walking toward us. It is very dark

and the sidewalks are wet from a recent rain.

The camera hasn't moved, so now we get a medium shot of Larry and

Carol. They have reached their car, and Carol walks around it to

get into the passenger's seat.

The camera tilts up the facade of the Waldron Hotel.

The two windows, which Larry is pointing at, suddenly get lit.

The camera tilts back down to street level. Larry and Carol are

around their car, ready to climb in.

Carol walks away from the car toward the hotel.

Larry catches up with her. The camera remains on the sidewalk,

looking at the couple walking toward the hotel.

They have reached the hotel and they are climbing the steps to the

entrance of the hotel.

HOTEL WALDRON - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium close shot on a window set in the wall of the lobby. Behind

the window, the night clerk is sorting some paper. There is a

grill in the window, to allow people to to talk to the clerk.

Carol and Larry walk to the window.

Larry tries to play the part of the relaxed policeman doing his

job, but he overdoes it and he looks more bizarre than serious.

Larry goes through the pockets of his jacket and gets the business

card the police officer gave him. He shows it to the clerk and

then slides it through a small rectangular hole at the bottom of

the window. The clerk takes it and looks at it.

The clerk gives the card back to Carol.

The clerks goes and gets the key of the room. He gives it to

Carol, who drops the card on the small counter under the window.

He takes the card from the counter and puts it back in the inside

pocket of his jacket.

Carol walks toward the elevator and Larry follows her.

HOTEL WALDRON - SIXTH FLOOR HALLWAY - INTERIOR NIGHT

As before, the camera is located at one end of the long corridor,

showing Larry and Carol at the other end of the corridor ready to

enter Room 611. Larry keeps looking around while Carol is opening

the door.

HOTEL WALDRON - ROOM 611 - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the room with the door in the background. The door is

opening slowly. Carol enters the room, followed by Larry

Larry closes the door.

The camera follows Carol and Larry moving around the room.

Carol opens a closet.

Carol gives a quick peek inside the closet, and then closes it.

We hear a click coming from the door of the room.

Larry picks up a metal lamp from the floor and hides behind a

closet in front of the door with Carol behind him. The door opens

and the cleaning lady walks in with her bucket and things. Larry

is ready to hit her, but, when he realizes who she is, he drops

the lamp. The cleaning lady yells.

Larry opens the door and pushes the lady out of the room.

He takes some money out of his pocket and gives it to her.

He closes the door.

Larry picks up the lamp which is broken in two pieces.

Carol comes back to Larry, holding something small in her hand.

Larry opens the door and they walk out of the room.

HOTEL WALDRON - ELEVATOR CABIN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot inside the cabin. The elevator is moving down.

There is a loud noise and the elevator suddenly stops.

Carol starts punching all the buttons on the control panel.

She hits the door with the palms of her hands.

Larry is getting really hysterical, moving his hands nervously

around him.

Carol points to the ceiling of the cabin.

Carol takes Larry's hands and joins them together.

She puts a foot on Larry's hands.

Close shot on Larry's distorted face. We see Carol's body going

up.

Medium close shot on the ceiling of the cabin. Carol is trying to

open a trap above the ceiling lamp.

The trap opens, and Lilian House's body comes out. Carol yells and

falls down on the floor. The upper part of the body is hanging out

of the trap, with its arms moving around.

The camera tilts down to floor level and Larry and Carol.

Suddenly, the lights switch off. The cabin is now pitch dark.

We hear the noise of the elevator starting again.

We hear the noise of the elevator door opening.

Apparently Carol has come out of the elevator.

HOTEL WALDRON - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT

This shot is supposed to be in the basement of the hotel, but

since it is still pitch dark, we can't tell the difference.

Larry lights a match, and we see his scared face lit by the flame

of the match.

Larry blows the match, because it is burning his fingers.

He lights another match. We very dimly see the basement walls

around them.

Medium full shot of Carol and Larry walking toward us in a

corridor. Beside the light of the match, there is some other dim

light coming from somewhere in the basement.

They are now in close shot.

The camera turns around to follow them in the corridor.

We hear a loud metallic bang.

Larry switches the light on. They are in a room with beige walls.

There are pots of paint stacked behind Larry.

Carol tries to open a door near Larry, but it is locked.

Larry walks back a few steps and rushes on the door, trying to

break it open.

He does it another time.

Carol points to another room opening in the one they are in.

Carol and Larry are now walking in a lit corridor.

Carol walks rapidly toward a dark section of the corridor. The

camera follows her.

She has reached a door with a barred window showing the street

outside.

She tries to open the door, but it is a bit stuck.

Carol succeeds in opening the door.

They rush outside.

NEW-YORK - STREET OUTSIDE THE WALDRON HOTEL - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Long shot on the dark street. At a distance, we see a man putting

a large oblong-shaped parcel in the trunk of a car. The man looks

very much like Paul.

The camera pans around to give us a reverse-angle medium shot of

Carol and Larry coming out of the basement of the hotel. They

stopped in the middle of the short staircase.

Carol walks on to the sidewalk, followed by a very frightened

Larry.

The camera pans back around to give us a reverse-angle shot of the

car leaving the curb of the street.

The camera pans back around again to give a reverse-angle medium

long shot of Carol and Larry running toward their car.

They have reached their car and they start climbing into it, Larry

still on the driver's side.

They slam the doors, switch the headlights on and start.

NEW-YORK - AERIAL OVERVIEW OF BROOKLYN BRIDGE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The camera starts with the interchange at one end of the bridge,

then pans to the bridge itself. At this early hour of the night,

the bridge still has a lot of traffic moving on it. Then the

camera moves down to get a closer look of the traffic on the

bridge.

The camera follows the moving traffic on the bridge, and certainly

also follows Larry's car, even though, from this height, we can't

tell which car it is.

LARRY'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Long shot of the road taken from inside Larry's car. They pass the

15W exit.

NEW-YORK - INDUSTRIAL PARK - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Long shot inside an industrial park, somewhere on the outskirts of

New-York. Larry's car drives slowly inside the park, coming toward

us. There is no one else at this time of the night. The place is

lit by a few lampposts, and there is smoke behind Larry's car.

The car stops.

The car headlights switch off.

They both get out of the car, and they start walking toward the

place where Carol saw the other car.

They reach the other car surrounded by huge piles of metal scrap.

The car and the scenery around it are lit by a powerful red light.

Carol and Larry run toward the place where the red light comes

from. It is inside a huge building. But they don't go inside the

building and, instead, keep on running along the building.

Medium shot on Larry and Carol. Carol stops Larry and points at

something.

The camera pans to the thing Carol was pointing at. A body, half-

wrapped in a white sheet, is being lifted by a huge electromagnet.

Reverse high-angle shot on Larry and Carol, as if they were seen

from the magnet.

Larry takes Carol's hand and runs toward the magnet.

Reverse angle long shot on a group of workers in the background.

Then the camera pans to a reverse angle medium shot on Larry and

Carol coming out between rows of huge heavy-duty bags.

Reverse angle medium shot on a huge cauldron full of hot melted

metal. A huge pair of metal jaws is dropping metal scraps into the

cauldron. Among the metal scraps, we see Mrs. House's body

The camera zooms to a close shot on the cauldron.

Reverse angle shot on Larry and Carol. Then reverse angle long

shot on the cauldron. A lot of bright sparks are coming out of the

cauldron.

Long shot on the building. Larry and Carol are coming out of the

building. They start running toward the camera. The camera pans

around to a medium shot on Paul's car. Through the windshield, we

see Paul behind the wheel, lit by the red light coming from the

melted metal. He starts the car and drives away.

The camera pans around toward Carol and Larry, still running - too

late - toward Paul's car.

They run after the departing car.

NEW-YORK - LARRY'S RESIDENCE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of Larry's car. He has just parked it, and Carol and he

are coming out of it.

Larry has walked around the car and joins Carol on the sidewalk.

Larry looks away from her and puts his hand on his mouth, as if

frightened by something

The camera turns around Larry and Carol and, located now behind

Larry's back, gives us a full shot of the entrance of Larry's

building.

Paul and Gladys Dalton, Paul's assistant at his movie house, are

coming out of the building. Paul tuns his head around and sees

Carol and Larry.

Carol and Larry shake hands with Gladys.

He puts his hand on Gladys' shoulder and start walking away with

her.

The camera follows the departing couple, Gladys still walking with

the help of a cane.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot of Larry and Carol, sitting in their bed. They've

already put on their nightclothes and they have a last talk before

going to sleep.

Carol laughs.

LARRY'S LANDING - HALLWAY - INTERIOR NIGHT

The door of the elevator opens. Inside the cabin, Larry and Carol

are smiling and talking.

Some neighbors are gathered around Paul's apartment door. Larry

asks them questions.

The camera pans inside Paul's corridor, where Mrs. House's body,

completely covered by a white sheet, is lying dead on a stretcher

with the doctor and the emergency medical team around her.

The camera pans around to the group of neighbors standing in the

hallway.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Back to Larry and Carol sitting in their bed.

He picks up the phone on his night table.

VINCENT'S RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Vincent's is a nice cosy place, with dim lights, tasteful

decorations, and light piano music.

Full shot of a table with the four customer seen in profile. Larry

is seated next to Marcia, and across from his wife. Ted is seated

next to Carol. During the following conversation, the camera moves

around the table.

The camera stops on Marcia and thus stops moving around the table.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Paul and another woman, that looks like his wife, are seated

around a table, having dinner. Lilian House gives a glass of wine

to the woman, then another one to Paul, and kisses him on the

forehead.

Later. The woman has a hard attack. Paul helps her to walk to the

sofa.

Later. Lilian, wearing a pink night-robe, is dressing the dead

woman, lying on the sofa, into her own clothes.

VINCENT'S RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Back to the restaurant. Long shot on the table. All the other

tables are empty. The camera zooms to a full shot of the table,

Marcia and Larry facing us, and Carol and Ted with their back to

us.

Marcia lights a cigarette.

She stands up and starts walking away to the toilets. Larry and

Ted stand up too. They wait for her to be gone to sit back.

Close shot on Carol.

The camera zooms back to a medium shot on Carol and Ted.

The camera moves around the table to a medium shot on Larry, with

Ted and Carol's backs in the foreground.

The camera pans to a medium close shot on Carol.

The camera slightly zooms back to show us Larry and Carol

Marcia walks back to the table.

She sits down, while Larry half-stands up and then sits back.

Close shot on Marcia

The camera pans to Ted.

The camera pans back to Marcia.

The camera pans to Ted, who looks at Marcia with worshipping eyes.

The camera pans on Larry.

The camera pans to Carol.

The camera pans to Marcia.

Medium shot on another table, around which two middle-aged men are

seated, listening very eagerly to the conversation.

Medium close shot on Ted and Carol.

The camera pans to Marcia and Larry.

The camera pans to Ted and Carol.

The camera pans to Marcia and Larry.

The camera pans to Ted and Carol.

The camera pans to Larry and Marcia.

The camera pans to Carol and Ted.

The camera pans to Larry and Marcia.

The camera pans to Ted and Carol.

The camera pans to Larry and Marcia.

The camera pans to Ted and Carol.

The camera pans to Marcia and Larry.

The camera pans to Ted and Carol.

The camera pans to Marcia and Larry.

Medium shot on the two waiters, standing on either side of the

counter, and listening to the conversation.

Medium close shot on Carol and Ted.

The camera pans to Marcia and Larry.

The camera zooms back, to show us the four people around the

table.

The camera stops zooming back and gives us a full shot on the

table.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on Helen Moss, making a phone call from an open booth

in the street. While she is talking, the camera comes closer to

her, to a medium close shot on her face.

She looks into her purse and gets her agenda out of it.

TED'S THEATRE - STAGE - INTERIOR DAY

Full slightly high-angled shot on the stage. In the middle of the

stage floor, a white circle, on which there is a chair and a small

table with a telephone. Suzanne Raphael, a young woman, is

auditioning. She is seated on the chair, holding the telephone.

Behind Suzanne, which is the left side of the stage seen from the

audience, a white wall, with a doorless opening. On either side of

the wall, two red columns. And on either side of the girl, which

are the front and the back of the stage, two red metallic frames.

In front of the girl, a video camera on a tripod, with an operator

standing behind the camera. Actually, the operator is Sy, Larry

and Carol's friend, whom we have seen much earlier in the film, in

the antique market and at Elaine's restaurant. The stage is well

lit, when the audience hall is in the dark.

She slams the phone down. The camera pans around to show us the

right side of the stage, where there is several rows of theatre

seats and a table in front of the seats. Ted, Marcia and Marilyn

are seated in the front row. Marilyn is Sy's wife, whom we have

also seen earlier in the film. Carol is seated in the second row,

behind Marcia.

Carol taps on Marilyn's shoulder, and whispers something to her.

Ted joins them in their whispered conversation. The camera pans

back on the stage. Larry, with a clipboard in his hand, has

entered the stage, pushing Helen in front of him.

Medium close shot on Ted, who stands up, and walks toward the

stage. The camera follows him.

The camera pans to a medium close shot of Helen.

The camera moves slightly, and is now located behind Ted's back,

still with Helen in medium close shot.

Ted walks away. Helen takes a very deep breathing, sits down, puts

her hands trough her hair, takes another breathing, and picks up

the phone handset from the telephone on the table. She overdoes it

a lot, trying to act as the prima dona she is not.

She dials a fake number on the phone keyboard.

Helen looks in Ted's direction.

She breathes deeply before starting again.

Later. Helen is auditioning another scene. She doesn't have the

phone in her hand any more. She is holding a script and looking at

it. Larry is seated in front of her, and read his own script on

his clipboard.

Later. Close shot of Helen's face auditioning another scene.

Medium shot of Helen, seen from behind. We see Sy standing behind

his camera on her right, and Larry standing with his clipboard in

his hand on her left. In the background, Ted, Marcia, Marilyn and

Carol listening to her. While Helen is talking, the camera moves

backward through the opening in the scenery.

A BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT.

Full shot on the upper level of a building, that could be either

Ted's theatre of Sy's workshop. The camera tilts down to street

level.

SY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT

We are inside Sy's workshop. It is full of very high-tech video

and audio equipment.

Medium shot of Marilyn standing behind a computer. Close to her,

Carol is seated on a table, and Ted is standing next to her. They

are both looking at a large video monitor. On the monitor screen

and on the computer screen, we see the same picture of Helen

auditioning with the telephone in her hand.

The camera pans to Marcia, seated behind Carol and also looking at

the monitor. Behind her, Sy is looking at another monitor, and

manipulating some switches on an editing machine underneath the

monitor. Larry is standing next to him.

Sy rewinds the video tape.

Sy fast winds the tape.

Close shot on Ted's face, then the camera pans to Carol and

Marcia, seated one behind the other, and behind them, Sy working

on the editing machine, with Larry standing next to him. The

camera zooms on Sy.

Sy rewinds the tape.

Sy rewinds the tape.

Sy rewinds the tape.

Slightly later. Medium close shot of Ted looking at something we

don't see, with Marcia standing next to him.

The camera pans to Carol standing up and looking at the same thing

as Ted. We hear Helen's voice distorted by Sy's editing machine.

The camera pans back on Ted and Marcia, then it pans to a close

shot of a big high-tech tape recorder, on which Sy is working. We

see his hands cutting off a short section of the audio tape, and

gluing back the two severed ends of the tape together.

Full shot of the room. In the foreground, Sy is working on his

tape recorder. On his right, Larry is standing and looking at him.

On his left, Marilyn also looking at him. Behind him, Carol, Ted

and Marcia, all looking at him.

The camera zooms on Ted and Marcia.

Close up shot on the tape recorder. Sy starts it.

The camera tilts up from the tape recorder to a medium shot on Ted

and Marcia. Ted smiles when he hears the work Sy has done with the

tape.

She shakes hands with Larry.

He also shake hands with Larry, moving slightly Carol out of the

way.

Larry suddenly notices that Carol has been excluded from the hand-

shaking party, and he turns around toward her.

MARCIA'S CAR - INTERIOR DAY

The camera is behind Marcia, who is driving in a street in New-

York. We see Helen walking on the sidewalk.

The camera pans around, from inside the car, to get a better shot

of Helen.

Through the back window of the car, we see Helen entering a

restaurant called Time.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Close shot on Marcia's car, inside which Marcia and Ted are

talking together.

Marcia has stopped the car, and Ted is getting out of it.

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of a large room, furnished with good taste. In the

background a large bay window, overlooking some green trees. On

the right, there is a large modern mantlepiece. On the left, a

bicycle is leaning on the wall. Under the window, a large and cosy

sofa.

Carol and Sy are standing in front of the window and talking

together. Next to them and Marcia is also standing and reading a

large album. In the foreground, Larry, who is the only one not to

be casually dressed, and is wearing jacket and necktie, is playing

with a small cassette-player in his hands. Marilyn is walking into

the room.

Sy walks toward her, holding another cassette player. Carol is

also holding one.

He looks at his watch.

They all sit down around a low table.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - BACKSTAGE - INTERIOR DAY

The backstage is in the same disorder as before, with all the

mirrors scattered around. Full shot of Paul and Gladys standing in

the middle of the room

The phone rings.

Paul walks out of the room.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Paul walks into a small room in a corner of the backstage. It must

have been a dressing room, but now it is full of various junk,

with a big poster, that looks like a enlarged newspaper, on the

wall. Paul picks up the phone from a small counter fixed on the

wall.

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the little group around the low table. Marcia and

Larry are seated next to each other in front of the camera, Sy is

seated on Larry's left and his wife on Marcia's right. Carol is

seated on the other side of the table, with her back to the

camera.

Marcia, who is seated next to the telephone, presses the play

button on her cassette player. Helen's voice comes out of it.

Marcia presses the stop button.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot of Paul on the phone.

He sits down.

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Marcia presses the play button.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Carol is shaking her head, not paying much attention to what is

going on. Marilyn and Marcia both silently point to Carol's

cassette player, to tell her it is her turn to play it. Carol

picks up her player to put it in front of the telephone and

presses the play button.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

It is Sy's turn to switch his player on.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The group seems surprised by a question they did not expected.

Marcia silently points to Marilyn's player. Marilyn presses the

play button.

Marcia presses on the mute button on the telephone set.

Marcia presses the mute button on the telephone. Sy turns to

Carol.

Carol puts her hand in front of her mouth. Larry gets his player

close to the telephone and presses the play button

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

It is still Larry's turn to use his player.

Marcia hits Larry's elbow, to tell him it was the wrong cue.

Larry is very nervous all of a sudden, and puts another player in

front of the telephone.

Larry drops the player.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Marcia points to Marilyn's player. Marilyn presses the play

button.

Marcia presses the mute button on the telephone set. Larry just

got the cassette out of his player and can't put it back in. He is

more and more nervous.

She presses the mute button on the telephone, then presses the

play button on her player.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Marilyn, who has just been playing her player, presses the stop

button on it. Then Marcia presses the mute button on the

telephone. Meanwhile, Larry has succeeded in getting a good length

of tape out of his cassette, and tries to put it back in !

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

SY AND MARILYN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Larry is still trying to put the tape back into the cassette.

Now, Larry is surrounded by a hundred feet of tape, which is

flying all around him ! Marcia points to Carol's player.

Marcia presses the mute button on the telephone, and Carol

presses the play button on her player.

Marcia presses the off button on the telephone.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Paul slowly puts the telephone down on its hook. He stands up and

walks back to the backstage.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - BACKSTAGE - INTERIOR DAY

He walks out and Gladys put her hands on her eyes. She slowly

walks away with the help of her cane.

NEW-YORK - STREET OUTSIDE SY AND MARILYN'S HOUSE - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot of a nice building with short trees and wrought iron

gates in front of it. We hear voices but we don't see anyone yet.

Carol runs out of the building.

Larry comes out of the building and closes the door. Carol turns

toward him.

They start walking down the street. The camera follows them.

The camera stops moving and just shows just the departing couple

walking down the street.

Long shot of Carol running away, while Larry, standing in the

middle of the sidewalk, looks at her going away.

A CAFETERIA - INTERIOR DAY

A classical New-York cafeteria, with tables and chairs scattered

all around the room. In the background the long counter, where the

food is displayed, and along which the customer are lining up at

lunchtime. Around a slightly isolated table on the left, Ted and

Helen are talking.

The camera zooms to a medium shot on Ted and Helen.

LARRY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of the room. The front door opens and Carol walks in.

She slams the door shut and puts her purse on a table. She takes

her coat off, walks into the corridor and opens a closet to put

the coat away in it. She then chooses a new set of clothes and

shoes to go to her appointment. She closes the closet and walks

into the bathroom to change. She closes the bathroom door. The

camera remains outside the bathroom and starts moving along the

corridor back to the front door. The front door opens and Paul

walks in. He walks silently along the corridor toward the

bathroom.

A CAFETERIA - INTERIOR DAY

Same medium shot as before on Ted and Helen.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Larry is in an open phone booth in a quiet street. He picks up the

handset, put a coin in the slot, and starts dialing the number he

has written on a piece of paper.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The small disused dressing-room in the corner of the backstage.

Paul is talking into the telephone. In front of him, Carol is tied

on a chair, with a white cloth gag taped on her mouth. While Paul

is talking, the camera zooms on Carol's frightened face.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Larry is still in the phone booth.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Paul takes the gag off Carol's mouth and put the phone mouthpiece

in front of her lips.

Paul puts the gag back on Carol's mouth

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Larry looks very frightened.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Paul is holding the gag in front of Carol's mouth with one hand

and the telephone with the other hand.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Larry is now very very frightened.

Larry hangs up and hold the side of the phone booth.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot of a street covered with iron works. Actually, this is

the same street and the same shot as the one we saw earlier in the

film, when Ted and Carol were following Helen going to Paul's

movie house in a yellow cab.

Larry's car is coming toward us, and then turns into the dead-end

street where the back entrance of Paul's movie house is located.

DEAD END STREET BEHIND PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - EXTERIOR DAY

Larry stops the car near the entrance of the movie house. Paul is

waiting for him.

Medium close shot on Larry's car. Larry opens his door, and comes

out of the car.

Paul walks toward the car. He's got a gun in his hand.

Larry walks around his car toward the trunk.

Larry opens the trunk.

Larry takes something in the trunk, then closes it back, but the

door of the trunk doesn't close well and opens again. Larry walks

back to Paul and shows him what he's got in his hand.

He walks to the open trunk.

Paul takes a bad-looking dummy out of the trunk. Apparently, it is

an amateur dummy that Larry has made himself.

He throws the dummy back in the trunk.

They start fighting.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Carol is still tied and gagged on the chair. She tries desperately

to get free.

DEAD END STREET BEHIND PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on Larry and Paul, still fighting. Larry succeeds in

getting away from Paul, who fires his gun. But, apparently, Larry

is not hit by the gunshot, because he runs toward the back

entrance of the movie house. The camera follows him.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - BACKSTAGE - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on the staircase on the side of the backstage. Larry

runs down the stairs, while we hear the sound of the Lady from

Shangai. The Lady from Shangai is a 1947 film written, directed

and played by Orson Welles.

Larry has now reached the backstage. He is behind the screen, a

small part of which is seen on the side of the shot.

Larry walks around the backstage, trying to find his way. We see

the black and white film on the screen, but also reflections of

the screen on the multiple mirrors scattered around the backstage.

Medium shot on the staircase. Paul is walking very slowly

downstairs.

Back on Larry, still trying to find his way around the backstage.

Full shot on the screen, where a man is falling down a long slide,

like the one used by kids on playgrounds. We hear the film music.

Medium close shot on two mirrors, one behind the other. On the

mirrors, we see the reflection of the screen. Paul is slowly

walking from behind the first mirror, his gun in hand.

Full shot on the mirrors, with Larry walking cautiously among

them.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on Carol in the small room. She is still trying to get

free from her bonds and gag.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - BACKSTAGE - INTERIOR DAY

Back to the mirrors showing numerous reflections of the screen.

Paul walks in, his gun in his hand.

Close shot of Larry half-hidden behind a large mirror.

Larry inadvertently drops the large mirror on the floor. The

mirror breaks with a crashing sound.

The camera pans to Paul, walking slowly with his gun pointed

toward Larry.

Behind Paul, we see the film on the screen. We have now reached

the famous last scene of the film, shot in the hall of mirrors.

Rita Hayworth's face is reflected on the many mirrors in the film,

just like, in the actual scene in the backstage, Paul and Larry

are reflected on the many mirrors scattered around.

Arthur's figure, walking with a cane, is reflected in the many

mirrors in the film. Just the same, Gladys, who has just entered

the backstage, walking with a cane, is also reflected on the

mirrors scattered around her. She has a gun in the hand which is

not holding the cane.

While Gladys and Paul are talking, the film keeps on showing on

the screen behind them, but we do not understand the words from

the film, because Paul and Gladys' voices are louder.

Medium shot on the mirrors, showing several reflections of Paul.

Close shot on Gladys' face. While she is talking, the camera pans

away from her, showing her reflection on a mirror.

The camera keeps on panning, showing another reflection of Gladys.

Medium shot on the mirrors showing several reflections of Paul.

Full shot of the screen, showing Arthur and his numerous

reflections on the mirrors in the film.

Low angle shot on the staircase, showing Larry going down the

stairs.

Medium shot of Gladys and one of her reflections.

She fired her gun twice

Medium shot on the many reflections of Paul. He fires his gun

twice. We hear noises of mirrors being broken by the gunshots,

both in the film, and on the backstage itself.

Medium shot of Gladys and one of her reflections. She turns

around, not being sure, because of the mirrors, of Paul's exact

location.

Medium shot of Paul walking on the backstage. We still hears

noises of mirrors being broken, but we don't know if the noises

come from the film or the backstage.

Medium shot of Gladys and several of the reflections.

Medium shot of the floor of the backstage. We see the bottom of

the screen and, of course, the film projected on it, and in which

the mirrors are being broken. Paul enters from behind a mirror

frame, and falls on the floor. Gladys' reflection appears in

several mirrors. She stops and looks at Paul's body lying on the

floor.

PAUL'S MOVIE HOUSE - OLD DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot of Larry entering the room. He rushes to Carol,

and takes her gag off.

He hugs and kisses her.

He starts untying her hands.

He picks up the telephone, and Carol, whose hands are now

completely free, starts dialing.

Larry hugs and kisses her again.

He takes the rope away, but he does it so nervously that he almost

takes Carol's head off !

NEW-YORK - STREET IN FRONT OF THE POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot on the top part of the door of the police

station. A sign says : 4th precinct 621.

The camera tilts down. Three uniformed policemen are standing on

the sidewalk near the door. Marcia and Ted come out of the

station, and stop at the entrance.

Marcia takes a cigarette, and Ted lights it with his lighter.

PAUL'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot. It's dinner time in Paul's apartment. Paul and

Lilian's sister are seated around the table. Lilian comes in from

Lilian gives a glass of wine to her sister.

Lilian gives a glass of wine to Paul.

Lilian's sister has a heart attack. Paul helps her walk away from

the table to the sofa.

Lilian's sister is lying dead on the sofa, and Lilian, wearing a

pink night-robe, is dressing her sister in her own clothes.

The camera pans to Paul talking on the telephone.

The camera pans back to the sofa, where Lilian is still dressing

her sister.

NEW-YORK - STREET IN FRONT OF THE POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR DAY

Back to the entrance of the police station, where Ted and Marcia

are still talking. They start walking along the street.

Medium shot of Ted and Marcia slowly walking behind the police

cars parked near the station.

NEW-YORK - LARRY'S RESIDENCE STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the corner of the street where Larry's building is

located. The pavement is wet from a recent rain. Carol and Larry

are coming around the corner of the street.

Carol, who was walking quite rapidly, suddenly slows down. Track

shot of Larry and Carol, with the camera in front of them

Carol laughs.

Larry laughs. They have reached their building and they enter it.

An attendant opens the door for them. Through the glass doors, we

see them cross the lobby toward the elevator.

The credits are Woody Allen style : in white Windsor Light

Condensed typeface letters on a black background.

