DETAIL: A WOODEN MODEL

On a table, we also PICK OUT a LARGE MODEL carved out of

BOLSER WOOD. It's a TOWN. Intricately done down to the

tiniest details.

We go even CLOSER to the model, seeing that there are

actual people, actual characters in the little town; actual

buildings: a CHURCH, a TOWN HALL, etc. Clearly someone has

put a ton of work into this thing.

And the tour of the base continues. Onto a new room. A dark

storage area Sam has repurposed to grow a handful of

plants. They sit surrounded by darkness, glowing under

pools of artificial light.

A strange angular room, obviously purposeful, but its

design more geared to a computer than a human being. A

single bed dominates.

The empty terrain surrounding the mining base, as viewed

from the Monitoring Station window. Across the landscape a

mountain rises from the morning shadows.

CLOSE UP -- A HAND TOOL

Some kind of rake or shovel half buried in the powdery

soil, like a child's toy abandoned in a sand box.

From up here it is easy to see why the Earth is sometimes

referred to as "the blue marble." A swirl of color.

Sam's bed -- A New York Jets poster on the wall -- a few

knickknacks bedside, rock samples in jars, a lucky

tambourine Sam got in Mexico some years ago -- a red stress

ball -- a photograph by the bed in a frame --

We MOVE CLOSER to the PHOTO by the bed.

PHOTOGRAPH

Of a slightly younger and clean-shaven Sam with his arms

wrapped around his wife of four years, TESS BELL.

Tess is a far cry from the stereotypical Astronaut's Wife

of the 1960's/70's with the plastic smile and beehive

hairdo.

Tess is modern, sophisticated, and jaw-droppingly

beautiful. She looks like she'd be a hard woman to leave

behind.

Note: In the photograph Tess is visibly PREGNANT.

Back with Sam at the Comms Unit as he wraps up the message.

And he sends the message.

The main corridor connecting the different rooms. We've

seen everything there is to see now. The base is small.

Confined. Claustrophobic. It is easy to imagine how someone

could crack up here.

Sam leaves the Comms Room and heads down the corridor.

A state of the art robot, a GERTY 3000 -- known simply as

"GERTY" -- is preparing Sam's breakfast.

Gerty is in three sections and moves along a horizontal

rail that runs throughout the base. He has a readout screen

that perpetually spews data. His hands resemble pincers,

but are perfectly nimble.

For the purposes of helping run the base and looking after

Sam, Gerty is as good as human, if not better.

Sam enters.

Sam treats Gerty more like a person than a robot. Whether

this is down to Gerty's intelligence or Sam's desperation

for company isn't clear just yet.

Note: Gerty talks like a well-educated older man. His

language doesn't have a great deal of inflection (i.e.

Monotone) but he is friendly enough.

Sam switches a dial on a radio but gets nothing but static -

- he sticks in a mini cd and skips the first few tracks.

We hear brief clips of talk radio and shuttle through it

before he allows it to play on, on some random American

station -- an old weather report:

They zip around the tiny kitchen, together preparing Sam's

breakfast, working as a team.

We take in the whole Moon at once. Gray, colorless, eerie.

From this distance the surface resembling Plaster of Paris.

Sam sits before Selene's main computer, known as THE OLD

MAN. Data flickering off Sam's face. He is making a log

entry. A CLOCK is running on the monitor.

Sam continues with his entry while we

Gerty is selecting food for the up-coming week, stacking

ready-meals on a small fork-lift buggy.

A RED LIGHT

Pulsing rapidly. The "ping-ping-ping" of an alarm.

BOARD

Sam stands before the Big Board. The names of the four

Harvesters (Matthew, Mark, Luke, John) in a collum. The red

light is flashing next to Matthew.

Sam presses an INTERCOM BUTTON, dips down, speaks into it.

Sam heads off.

A SPACE SUIT

Resembling an unmanned puppet. Sam begins to insinuate his

body into the suit.

Three Rovers (moon buggies) parked in their separate bays.

The Rovers are caked in lunar soil, as though sand blasted.

In his space suit Sam bends into one of the Rovers, starts

the engine.

Sam drives along, dwarfed by an enormous lunar bolder and

the rising slopes of the valley beyond. A toy car in this

vast and alien terrain.

The second in a fleet of four Harvesters (this one known as

Mark) collecting lunar soil. The Harvester resembles a tank

and kicks up clouds of dust. Booming, hulking, efficient.

Sam catches up in his Rover and accelerates into the back

of the Harvester up a couple of ramps. An intricate and

dangerous maneuver he executes deftly.

Sam is in an area   of the Harvester -- a kind of hatch --

not dissimilar to   a garage and known as THE BELLY. Once

safely inside Sam   closes the door. He is able to breathe in

the Belly without   his helmet, which he duly removes.

Sam steps up to a wall of computers. A light is flashing to

indicate one of the pods is filled with Helium3.

Sam does his thing, eventually removing a keg-size pod of

Helium3. He hauls it over to the Rover and sticks it in a

special slot in the equivalent of the Rover's trunk.

A new pod -- an empty -- replaces the pod Sam just removed.

Sam puts his helmet back on, returns to the Rover, reverses

out of the Harvester carefully.

Sam snakes through the soil on his way back to base, the

tracks of the Rover as sharp as if they had been made

through talcum powder. The Harvester churns into the

distance.

Sam loads the filled pod into a CARGO CONTAINER. The Cargo

Container is about the size of a fridge and can take a

maximum of five pods. There are four pods already inside,

Sam's new pod taking up the fifth and final slot.

Sam is seated at the Comms Unit recording a message for his

superiors back on Earth.

Sam desperately wants to talk but has nothing very

important to say. Then he remembers something.

Sam concentrates, getting a grip on his temper.

Sam reaches forward, sends the message.

Sam is loading the Cargo Container into the base's MAGLEV

LAUNCHER. He works with a sense of routine, far away,

preoccupied.

All of a sudden Sam STOPS. He has the feeling someone is

standing behind him. He slowly turns.

A GIRL is standing in the doorway watching him. She is

perhaps fifteen or sixteen years old. A yellow dress. Long,

wheat-colored hair. Freckles. At once beautiful and

haunting.

Sam gets the FRIGHT of his life. He FLIES against the wall.

WIDEN to reveal Sam and the Girl facing off. Sam POP-EYED

and SHAKING. The Girl IMMOBILE, arms at her sides, head

tilted ever so slightly to one side.

The Cargo Container is sent hurtling through space. A

TERRIFIC BLAST. It distracts Sam's attention, breaks his

stare...

And just like that, the Girl is gone. Sam is just staring

at an empty doorway. Nothing there.

Sam is baffled. Had to be his imagination. Had to be. After

a few seconds he shakes his head dismissively and continues

working.

Gerty is cutting Sam's hair.

Sam sitting back in a chair, barber shop style, while the

robot snip-snip-snips away with a pair of scissors. Sam is

gently squeezing a STRESS BALL in his right hand.

For a moment there is no sound but the snipping scissors,

reminiscent of keys snapping on a typewriter. Then:

The scissors start up again.

Sam with a HAIRCUT and a neatly TRIMMED BEARD is sitting

before the Bolser Wood model of the little town.

He is arched over working away with an EXACTO BLADE --

SQUINTING -- whittling a figure out of wood. This is

difficult and complicated work, and over three years Sam

has become highly skilled at it.

Sam can carve an actual person out of wood -- actual

cheekbones, actual throats, actual hands -- it's

fascinating to watch.

From another room Sam hears the "ping-ping-ping" of an

alarm.

CLOSE UP -- COMMS UNIT

Flashing on the comms unit monitor: "NEW TRANSMISSION."

There is a small icon of a telephone.

ON SAM

He carefully puts down the wooden figure and the exacto

blade -- stands and leaves the Rec Room.

Sam sits at the comms unit watching a message from his

superiors, OVERMEYERS and THOMPSON, a purposeful looking

woman in charge and her earnest second.

The two talk RAPIDLY and trade off like a tag team. At

times their tone can be almost bizarrely whimsical.

Overmeyers and Thompson seem to have known Sam for a while,

but even so, there is a practised casualness to the

repartee. It's a professional friendliness on Overmeyers

part, no more and for Thompson it's merely an eagerness to

be involved.

Sam curses to himself.

Sam shuts off the message before Overmeyers can pipe out

his last line.

Sam sits before the dead screen -- eyes closed -- taking a

succession of DEEP BREATHS.

Sam playing Ping-Pong. He has folded up the second half of

the table and is using it as a wall. The sound is rapid and

rhythmic: ca-cluck ca-cluck ca-cluck. Sam taking his

FRUSTRATION out on the little white ball.

Sam stands before the toilet urinating. Rather ironically

he is whistling I'm Walking on Sunshine -- focussed ahead

at his reflection in the mirror -- angling his face,

admiring his haircut, his beard.

Then he looks down to flush the toilet and his WHISTLING

abruptly STOPS.

It looks like someone just poured a glass of CRANBERRY

JUICE into the toilet bowl. Literally. The red urine

clouding the water like a squirt of octopus ink. Yeah, Sam

just pissed blood.

There is a "PING!" and Gerty's voice crackles from the

intercom.

Sam reaches over and presses the INTERCOM BUTTON.

And he flushes the toilet.

Sam sitting before the monitor. He hits the "PLAY" button,

begins watching the message.

ON THE MONITOR: Tess is sitting in a living room talking to

Sam. Tess has a sweet voice, she sounds grounded, like

she's got a head on her shoulders.

A WOMAN, possibly a nanny or some form of hired help,

swings a LITTLE GIRL into Tess's arms. This is EVE, Sam and

Tess's daughter.

Tess laughs. So does Sam.

Eve fidgets, rubs her nose, distracted.

The Maid steps in, hoists Eve away. Tess waits until

they're out of earshot.

A pause. Tess just stares into the camera. She is hundreds

and thousands of miles away, but for a second it feels like

she's right there in the Comms Room with Sam. It's

intimate.

She finally shakes her head, self-conscious, shy.

And the message ends.

ON SAM: smiling, on the brink of tears.

The Earth at night, illuminated by a glittering spider's

web of artificial lighting. From the Moon this is one of

the most beautiful sights you'll ever see.

Sam is in improved spirits. He pours himself a glass of

juice as Gerty prepares dinner.

It might be baby back ribs with french fries and spinach,

but it's made from a packet by adding hot water. Nasty.

Sam sits down with the packet. Digs in with a fork.

Sam eating ravenously.

Sam is in the Greenhouse pruning plants with a pair of

secateurs. He treads up the aisles slowly, taking time with

each of the plants. CLASSICAL MUSIC plays over the sound

system, Brahms, Beethoven, Bartok, one of the B's.

Sam HUMS along to the music. A man at peace.

Sam is working on his wooden model of the town. Across the

room the Ed Sullivan Show is on TV. Ed's guest is a very

young Goldie Hawn.

Note: Whenever any TV is watched in the film, it is always

a show from 1970's America. (Mash, Six Million Dollar Man,

Laugh-In, etc.) No explanation is given for this.

Sam is half-watching the TV, but his focus is chiefly on

the SMALL HOUSE he is carving. And carving beautifully.

After a few seconds he stands and snaps off the TV with a

remote. He crosses to the kitchen section of the Rec Room

to make some tea. The water has just boiled.

As Sam is about to pour the boiling water, tea kettle in

hand, he glances across the Rec Room and sees:

The Girl. She's taken Sam's chair before the model. She is

motionless, staring down at the model like she recognizes

one of the little figures walking the tiny streets.

Sam calmly puts the tea kettle down and begins to move

towards the Girl, slowly, cautiously, like he wants to

sneak up on her.

Sam walks right up to the Girl and reaches out his hand...

SAM

And then we CUT to Sam standing in the kitchen. Over by the

model there is no sign of the Girl. The chair is empty.

She's gone. Her sitting there, Sam's walk across the room --

apparently he imagined it all.

Sam looks down. The tea kettle is dangling at an angle and

BOILING WATER is DRIBBLING onto his left hand.

Simultaneously: Sam SNAPS his hand AWAY, Sam SCREAMS. The

tea kettle CLATTERS to the floor.

Sam HURRIES to the sink and jerks his hand under a stream

of cold water. Cursing under his breath the whole time:

"Shit, piss, fuck..."

Sam sits in a chair as Gerty tends to his scolded left

hand. It's a nasty burn.

Gerty applies a translucent balm to the burn.

A pause. Gerty is wrapping Sam's hand with a bandage.

Gerty has caught him out. Sam knows it.

Gerty has hit the nail on the head, in a way that makes Sam

feel a little uneasy. Is there something Gerty knows that

Sam doesn't?

Sam asleep in bed.

Sam making love to Tess. We remain very close to their

bodies in bed. The background a blur. No sound. It's all

flesh and white sheets. Sensual, delicate, intense. We feel

almost intrusive watching.

Sam wakes up and lunges across the bed to shut off his

alarm clock. We notice a WHITE BANDAGE on the hand that he

scolded.

Afterwards: Sam lies back, watching the ceiling, groggy,

reflective, still surfacing from his dream.

And then OVER THIS: The sound from the opening of the film,

THE TREADMILL, and we

Sam on his morning run.

Gerty is making breakfast. Sam enters, fresh from the

shower.

Gerty pops the radio on. Just another morning on Selene.

Sam sitting before The Old Man doing his daily log entry. A

CLOCK is running on the monitor.

Suddenly the monitor BLIPS -- a BLAST of STATIC -- and Sam

SEES himself talking on the monitor. It appears to be a

previous log entry.

But bizarrely, the Sam talking on the monitor has long hair

pulled back into a ponytail -- and no beard --

And then another BLIP -- another BLAST of STATIC --   and

the screen turns completely BLACK.

A single word begins to flash in the center of the screen:

"ERROR."

The word flashes three times -- before the screen returns

to normal, the CLOCK running again.

It all happened so quickly Sam wonders if he didn't just

imagine it. After an awkward pause he simply continues the

original log entry.

CLOSE UP -- RED LIGHT

Pulsing. Going "ping-ping-ping."

Sam stands across the room with a mug of coffee, peers up

at the Big Board, sees that the alarm belongs to Matthew.

He crosses to the INTERCOM, speaks into it.

Sam at the wheel in his space suit, speeding towards the

first of the Harvesters, known as MATTHEW.

HARVESTER/MATTHEW

As Sam gets closer to the Harvester, he suddenly sees

something:

The Girl.

She is standing maybe a hundred yards away in her yellow

dress, resembling a FLAME or a FLOWER in the barren and

colorless landscape. She appears to be staring directly at

Sam's rover.

SAM

His face unfolding with panic, alarm, curiosity. An

intense, yearning, curiosity.

He drives closer.

But like in a dream, Sam can't seem to make up any distance

between the Rover and the Girl. He CRUSHES the accelerator

peddle.

For a moment Sam drives right alongside the Harvester,

clouds of lunar dust being kicked up, cascading against the

side window. But Sam is looking away from the Harvester,

focussed on the Girl.

ON SAM: He doesn't notice Matthew (The Harvester) suddenly

veer RIGHT, slamming into the side of the Rover and causing

Sam to lose control.

The steering wheel swings left and right as Sam desperately

tries to STRAIGHTEN the path of the vehicle, but a split

second later the Rover is FLIPPED like a matchbox, and SPUN

into the path of the Harvester -- a HIDEOUS SCREECH of

MANGLED METAL -- the Rover gobbled up by the front of the

Harvester, DEVOURED.

The Rover is JAMMED under the Harvester's monstrous AXLE,

resembling a crushed beer can in a fist -- and with a BIG,

BOOMING GROAN the Harvester slides to a STANDSTILL.

WIDE SHOT: Silence. The Harvester stationary. The Rover

caught beneath it.

No sign of the Girl.

BLACK.

Silence. Hold it for five seconds and then

Eyelids fluttering, bright light, at first broken up,

filtered, as if viewed through a Kaleidoscope. Slowly

shapes and impressions begin to form and we know where we

are.

It's the Infirmary.

A CLEAN SHAVEN and drugged-up Sam is sitting up in bed,

propped with a pillow. Sam doesn't have a scratch on his

face, but has clearly been through a terrifying ordeal.

Gerty is bedside.

Sam looks bewildered -- he desperately racks his brain,

trying to locate the memory.

Sam just stares back at Gerty, not so much as a flicker of

recognition.

A pause. Sam taking it all in. Eventually:

Sam closes his eyes, sinking deeper into his pillow.

Sam asleep in bed. Gerty is scanning his head with a small

instrument resembling a camcorder.

There are READOUTS on a monitor showing blood flow, oxygen

levels and glucose metabolism in the tissues of Sam's

brain.

LUKE, one of the Harvesters, crossing the lunar landscape

at HALF SPEED.

Sam wakes up from an extended nap. He thrusts his fists

into his eyes like a child, yawns ferociously.

No sign of the robot. Sam is feeling well enough to walk.

He swings his legs out of bed, begins to plod around the

room. He is tentative at first, slow, as if walking is

something he is having to learn from scratch.

Eventually when he is moving fluidly he goes to the door

and pokes his head out into the corridor.

Sam peers around. From another room he can hear the faint

drone of VOICES. One of these voices belongs to Gerty. The

other voices are deeper, faster, human.

The voices continue. Intrigued, Sam PRESSES ON down the

corridor.

ON SAM

As he walks up the corridor in the direction of the Comms

Room. Sam is close enough now that he can actually hear the

conversation.

Sam arrives at the door of the Comms Room and peers in.

Gerty is installed at the Comms Unit. Thompson and

Overmeyers are on the screen.

The moment Gerty sees Sam he shuts off the monitor and the

screen fizzes to black, Thompson and Overmeyers vanishing.

Strange: Gerty appeared to have a live feed.

Sam nods vaguely, turns around and heads back to the

Infirmary slowly.

Sam watching TV -- The Muppet Show, the "Pigs in Space"

sketch -- and eating dinner. He's not laughing.

Sam hunched over the infirmary's stainless steel wash basin

giving himself a shave. He hits the razor on the side of

the basin -- tap tap tap -- like a conductor with a baton.

Sam is seated at a table. Frankly he looks better now than

he did before the accident.

Perhaps it's the rosy hue of his freshly shaven face. He

certainly looks younger. A man revitalized, a man mended.

Gerty is giving Sam something very similar to an IQ Test.

Sam has just arranged a series of blocks into an L-shaped

tower.

Sam's face taught with irritation. He isn't happy.

Gerty gives him the next puzzle to solve. WE MOVE IN ON

SAM'S LEFT HAND as he takes the puzzle, the same hand he

scolded in an earlier scene.

The BANDAGE is GONE and the BURN appears to have completely

HEALED.

Sam walking down the corridor in the direction of the

Sleeping Quarters. He stops at a RED LIGHT on the corridor

wall, beneath it the word, "EXIT DOORS."

He's locked inside the base.

Sam pulls a face, disgruntled, continues down the corridor.

Sam takes in the New York Jets poster on the wall and walks

over to the bed -- studies his lucky tambourine and the

glass jar of lunar rock samples -- like he's trying to

reacquaint himself with his own belongings.

His eyes arrive on the red stress ball. Sam scoops up the

ball and PITCHES it at the wall like he expects the thing

to bounce back to him. The stress ball doesn't bounce back,

simply hits the wall with a dull THUD and DROPS to the

FLOOR.

A desolation special. The blacker than black sky above.

None of the ingredients of life. On Earth we have

rainforests, and flowers, and birds. We have color. Up here

we realize how lucky we are. The base is lit by large

halogen comfort lights, alone in the lunar desert. This is

a lunar night.

Sam sitting before The Old Man doing a few innocuous tasks,

collecting readouts, slurping a cup of coffee. Gerty is

within ear shot.

Sam sees something that pulls him CLOSER to the monitor.

Gerty approaches. Sam taps the screen.

Sam gives Gerty a look. That's not good.

Sam is recording a message for Central.

Sam really frustrated now. He feels cooped up, stir crazy,

idle.

Sam sends the message.

Sam enters the Rec Room, looks around, his eyes settling on

the model of the town.

Sam sits down in front of the model, staring -- he picks up

the HOUSE he was carving earlier -- studies it carefully.

Sam and Gerty are seated at the Comms Unit watching a video

message from Central. Sam is holding a carved HOUSE,

examining it as he listens to the video.

The familiar faces of Overmeyers and Thompson on the

screen, shoulder to shoulder, the two looking more like

vultures right now than lizards.

The message ends. Sam turns to Gerty, irate, the message as

good as a kick in the balls.

Sam stares at Gerty.

Sam throws the half completed wood carving in his hand at

the other end of the room, breaking it. He FLIES to his

feet -- growling with frustration -- STORMS out of the

room.

Sam asleep in bed.

Sam and Tess making love. We remain very close to their

bodies in bed. The background a blur. It's the same dream

we saw earlier.

Something is different though.

We drift past Sam and Tess, and under the sheets of the

bed.

Down between their entwined feet huddles a bearded, wide-

eyed Sam, staring directly at us from under the sheets at

the end of the bed!

Sam is quietly eating breakfast, lost in thought. Gerty

puttering around in the background. The radio drones away.

Sam is seated at the Comms Unit watching a message from

Tess.

We assume this is an old message since Tess is heavily

PREGNANT.

Her slender hands are spread over her prodigious belly as

she beams at the camera.

A POP and Tess is gone -- the monitor filled with STATIC.

Sam sits staring into space. Tess' message seems to have

agitated him.

He JUMPS from his chair and HEADS OUT of the Comms Room at

pace.

Sam strides in -- swipes a KNIFE from beside the wooden

model -- strides out again.

Sam glances left and right -- making sure there's no sign

of Gerty -- then begins to PRY open a VENT with the knife.

Once the vent is removed he reaches deep inside and YANKS

out a bundle of interwoven WIRES -- Sam bends the wires

around the BLADE of the knife -- and CUTS.

GAS ISSUES from the cut wires. An ALARM sounds.

Sam hides the knife away, shouts down the corridor:

Gerty comes out of the Monitoring Station and SHUTTLES down

the corridor.

The robot takes an inordinate amount of time to think this

through. The syrupy gas distorts the light as it collects

at Sam's ankles. Gerty's arms work away as they speedily

repair the damage Sam has done. Finally:

The "Exit Doors" LIGHT turns from RED to GREEN. For Sam

this is like the BLAST of a STARTING PISTOL -- he

immediately takes off down the corridor --

Sam finds his space suit is gone, so grabs the spare suit

and scrambles into it.

Two Rovers parked side by side. One of the parking bays is

EMPTY. Sam stands before the empty bay for a moment -- why

is one of the Rovers missing?

If Sam suspected something was wrong before, he is certain

of it now. He climbs into one of the two remaining Rovers.

Sam speeding along in the Rover. He has Matthew's

coordinates plugged into his Navigation System and is

following a MAP on a small monitor.

Sam heading towards the stalled Harvester. It soon becomes

apparent that there is something STUCK under the front of

the Harvester's AXLE. A second later it is apparent what

that something is: inevitably, it's the MISSING ROVER.

Sam slows his Rover down, approaching the scene with

CAUTION. He parks a few feet away from the wreck and opens

the door of his Rover, stepping outside gingerly.

ONE SIXTH GRAVITY is like walking on a trampoline. Sam

takes long strides, bobbing over to the front of the

Harvester to take a closer look, his boots leaving deep

FOOTPRINTS in the lunar soil.

THE FRONT OF THE HARVESTER

The crashed Rover is exactly as we left it after the

accident, mangled, crushed, captured beneath the trundles

of the Harvester. Sam peers closer and sees that there is

an UNCONSCIOUS MAN in a Lunar Industries space suit trapped

inside.

Sam can't see the man's face -- he has his back to Sam, his

body sprawled across the passenger seat like he's searching

for loose change on the floor of the vehicle.

With great effort Sam manages to prize the Rover's door

open. He reaches inside and begins to pull the man out --

Sam's sheer ADRENALINE giving him the strength of a YETI.

Sam DRAGS the unconscious man away from the crashed Rover,

his body leaving a big TRACK MARK in the gray soil. Sam

takes a second to catch his breath, then leans down and

turns the unconscious man onto his back.

He BRUSHES DUST from the glass of the man's HELMET, leans

down even closer.

CLOSE UP -- THE MAN

Through his helmet we see a BLOODY and BEARDED SAM. Sam as

we remember him. The Sam from the opening twenty minutes of

the film.

Sam's face as the PANIC, the ALARM, the SHOCK, the

REALIZATION hit him like a wrecking ball: this man he has

just pulled out of the crashed Rover is himself.

WIDE SHOT -- THE STALLED HARVESTER

Sam gathers his wits and manages to lift the unconscious

Sam up over his shoulder, fireman's lift style, taking him

to the parked Rover.

Sam drives the Rover into the Dock, flies out and removes

his space helmet, screaming:

He reaches into the Rover, lifting out the unconscious Sam.

He carries him in both arms, staggering across the dock --

back arched, arms beginning to sag -- and into the

corridor.

Sam promptly collapses and DROPS the unconscious Sam onto

the floor.

Gerty approaches, gliding along his rail. Sam is freaking

out big time, exhausted, panic-stricken, bewildered.

A pause. Gerty literally seems lost for words.

Sam SCOOPS the unconscious Sam up off the ground and lifts

him towards the INFIRMARY -- staggering -- stumbling --

going:

Sounding like some deranged homeless man. Gerty gliding

alongside him.

Lying in the Infirmary bed, propped on a pillow, is the

first Sam, the bearded Sam, who we will now refer to as SAM

1.

He has a wicked black eye and a purple bruise on the right

side of his face, looks like he was on the losing end of a

brawl.

He has a DRIP stuck in his arm and a tangle of WIRES

attached to his bare chest. A MACHINE is BEEPING away.

Gerty hovers over him, redressing the BANDAGE on Sam 1's

left hand, the one he scolded a while back.

Sam 1's eyes pop open, he is awake, staring directly at

Gerty.

For a second this is playing out like the other Infirmary

scene. A case of deja-vu.

Sam 1's eyes twitch as he catalogues through his memory.

Yes he remembers the crash. He remembers something else,

too.

Just then Sam 1 notices the other Sam -- the more current,

clean-shaven Sam -- who we will now refer to as SAM 2. He

is standing against the wall watching Sam 1.

Sam 1 continues to stare at Sam 2, hardly believing his

eyes.

As he says this Sam 2 crosses slowly from one side of the

room to the other, never taking his eyes off Sam 1. It's

like Sam 2 is purposefully keeping his distance, reluctant,

afraid even, to approach any closer.

Meanwhile Sam 1 is beginning to look spooked.

But Sam 1 knows exactly who it is. He's seen that face

every morning of his life in the bathroom mirror.

Sam 2 wordlessly walks out of the room.

Sam 1's eyes shift to Gerty, the spooked expression yet to

leave his face.

Sam 1 hobbling along, in addition to his facial injuries he

injured his knee in the crash and is walking with a slight

LIMP. The camera TRACKING behind Sam 1 as he swings along

and stops at

Sam 1 in the doorway, he peers in.

Seated before the TV watching The Newlywed Game, Sam 2. He

turns from the TV and shares a LONG LOOK with Sam 1.

Finally:

Sam 2 just nods. He turns back to the TV.

Sam 1 continues on down the corridor.

Gerty is studying lunar rock samples through a microscope.

Sam 1 enters.

Sam 1 is perplexed, but not freaking out, not yet anyway.

Sam 1 is officially FREAKING OUT now.

A long pause. Sam 1 at the point of tears.

Sam 1 merely nods at this, turning and plodding out of the

room, seemingly in a DAZE.

Sam 1 comes out of the Monitoring Station, passes the Rec

Room without looking in.

Sam 2 has taken over the room. The same belongings, of

course, but there's a different energy. For one thing it's

very untidy; looks like the bedroom of an unruly teenager.

Sam 1 stands in the doorway, taking it in.

Wordlessly Sam 1 begins to tidy the room. He seems almost

RELIEVED to be able to lose himself temporarily in this

physical activity -- making the bed, folding clothes, etc.

Sam 2 has stopped watching TV and is now seated at a table

playing solitaire. Sam 1 appears in the doorway.

Sam 2 looks up. The energy bristling with tension.

Sam 2 doesn't answer, goes back to his cards.

Sam 1 enters with CAUTION, takes a seat across the room,

purposefully keeping his distance.

The two Sam's are inspecting plants.

Sam 2 hesitates, eventually shakes Sam 1's hand. Meanwhile

Sam 1 is staring at his clone, astonished.

This final line intended as a kind of truce.

Sam 1 and Sam 2 are folding the Ping-Pong table down so

they can have a real game.

PING-PONG

The two Sams playing Ping-Pong. It's slightly competitive,

but mainly they are just happy to take their minds off

their situation for half an hour.

Sam 2 slaps his paddle on his thigh, his temper creeping up

on him. He catches Sam's eye. Gets a grip. Sam 1 is a

better player than Sam 2. He's been up here longer. He's

had more practice.

After the game, the two Sams are sprawled in their seats,

sweaty, flushed, energized. They sit before the model of

the town.

Sam 2 doesn't know what to do with the news: on the one

hand he is jubilant, on the other he's a clone, the baby

technically isn't even his.

All of a sudden there is a "PING!" From the Intercom

speaker:

Sam 1 and Sam 2 share a look, then together SPRING from

their chairs.

Sam 1 and Sam 2 seated before the Comms Unit. Sam 1 hits

the "Play" button. Overmeyers and Thompson appear on the

screen.

A SHOT/STILL PHOTO of Rescue Unit ELIZA. A meaner group of

sons-of-bitches you have never seen. These guys make the

rescue team from Apocalypse Now look like The New Kids on

the Block.

Sam 2 gives Sam 1 a perplexed look.

Sam 2 is shaking his head slowly.

Sam 1 presses down the corridor, Sam 2 tailing right behind

him.

Sam 1, stress ball pumping away in his hand, spots Gety and

angrily faces him.

Gerty doesn't know which way to look.

Sam 1 ducks in the Rec Room, Sam 2 in tow.

Sam 1 takes his old seat before the model. Sam 2 stands

over him.

"Other clones?" Sam 1 just stares back.

Sam 1 shakes his head dismissively, picks up the wooden

house, starts whittling.

Meanwhile Sam 2 has left the room.

Sam 2 in the Monitoring Station checking wall panels,

reaching his hand inside cubbies and feeling around deep

inside, SEARCHING.

Sam 2 moving along the corridor, pressing his ear against

panels, tapping with his finger --

Sam 2 RAMPAGES through the Sleeping Quarters, pushes the

bed aside, lifts the mattress, goes tearing through a

closet, ripping clothes from hangers, checks the back

panel.

Sam 2 has come full circle. He shifts the ping pong table,

goes through cabinets in the kitchen, feels inside --

Sam 1 half-whittling, half-watching.

Finally Sam 2 arrives before the model.

Sam 1 stands, keeps his ground.

Sam 1 is still holding the knife. Though he's not about to

use it, both Sams are aware that it's there.

Suddenly Sam 2 LUNGES for the knife; an INTENSE STRUGGLE

ensues -- TEETH CLENCHED, sputtering BREATHS -- the two

Sams less clones right now than ANIMALS.

Sam 2 is able to loosen Sam 1's grip on the knife --

flinging the weapon across the room -- and SWINGS Sam 1 up

against the wall.

Now Sam 2 turns to face the model. Using BOTH HANDS he

lifts the model up HIGH over his HEAD and PUSHES the entire

thing UPSIDE DOWN. A massive CRASH.

There is nothing there but the bare table.

Sam 1 comes up behind Sam 2 with his nose SPEWING BLOOD,

wraps both arms around Sam 2's neck. Sam 2 elbows him in

the ribs -- a quick, controlled jab -- SPINS around,

manages to secure Sam 1 in an arm lock.

But suddenly there is no struggle coming from Sam 1: he's

stopped fighting. Sam 2 removes him from the headlock --

notices his arm is SMUDGED with Sam 1's BLOOD --

Sam 1 has remained bent over, like he's cast in stone,

blood RAINING from his face and POOLING at his feet thick

and fast.

Sam 2 just staring, as freaked as he is baffled.

Now he tries to help Sam 1.

Sam 1 tears away from him. He looks up, his face a MESS of

blood -- the WHITES of his eyes unnaturally bright, shouts:

Sam 1 holds his face with his outstretched hand, as if

holding it in place -- STUMBLES from the room -- leaking

BLOOD the whole way.

A concerned Sam 2 watches him go.

Sam 1 spills in and locks the door. He RAPIDLY turns on the

faucet and cups his hand to transfer water up to his face --

this going on for a few seconds.

