EXT. EARTH - DAY (12,000 B.C.)

The world turns below us, vast and slow.

A RUMBLE. A shadow sweeps over the land. We move with the

shadow. We cast the shadow.

Landscapes slide by. Reduced by altitude to abstractions:

river deltas, forests and flood plains. A raw natural world.

No trace of civilization.

The shadow glides over mountains and glaciers. Across an

ocean and a pale beach. Over lowland plain at the foot of a

VOLCANIC MOUNTAIN it stops.

EXT. LOWLAND PLAIN - DAY

THREE FIGURES walk out of the shadow.

They are men - and yet not men. Their skin is snow-white.

Their features heavy and classical - as if Rodin's Thinker

had risen from his seat. Their smooth heads are earless and

hairless. Their glittering eyes entirely black.

Against the stark land their height is impossible to judge.

They are ENGINEERS.

Two of them are cloaked in dark robes of strange design.

The third is naked.

One of the cloaked Engineers opens a featureless black box:

inside lies a cake of dark, sticky material.

The naked one lifts the dark cake with ceremonial slowness.

It hums and buzzes. Foams into iridescent spheres. He raises

the seething cake to his mouth like the sacrament.

BLACK SCARABS boil out of the dark material. Swarm over his

lips. Glittering insects that chitter and bite.

Under the swarm his lips melt away. A horrific vision of

teeth, black blood, dissolving bone. They are devouring him.

A fevered glimpse of the microscopic: cells rupture and

bleed. Protein chains unfold. A DNA spiral unravels.

The scarabs fill their bellies with genetic material.

...spreads his arms. Stands cruciform, nearly headless.

The scarabs swarm his shoulders, his chest. When they reach

his hips, he collapses sideways, toppling majestically like a

felled tree. Engulfed.

The two cloaked Engineers watch impassively.

Behind them, a vast black SHIP hangs in the sky.

As if blown by a great gust of wind, the scarabs disperse in

their millions in all directions. Living DNA on the wing.

Where the sacrificial victim fell, nothing remains.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

A pristine wilderness. The VOLCANIC MOUNTAIN in the distance.

A PRIMITIVE WOMAN stands on a height, staring in amazement:

far off a great dark ship hovers over the plain.

A black scarab lands on the back of her neck. Bites deep.

Injecting its cargo of DNA into her blood.

A microscopic invasion. Cells pierced and infused. DNA

strands twining and mating.

CLOSE ON THE WOMAN

Pupils dilating with shock, breath hissing into her lungs.

She slaps the back of her neck. Looks at her hand. The scarab

lies in her palm.

As she watches, it crumbles to dust and blows away.

Drifting motes of light against the dark: a starscape.

An EXCAVATOR floats into view: a sturdy vehicle equipped with

robotic arms. Bright floodlights beat at the darkness. Inside

the cockpit - a bubble of glass - sits a BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.

This is DR. JOCELYN WATTS, 32, a precocious scholar of many

disciplines. A scientist accustomed to field work.

The cockpit is sweltering: she wears shorts, boots, a T-shirt

- and still her arms and legs gleam with sweat.

Watts works the controls. The excavator descends toward a

rocky surface. Silt billows up as the excavator approaches:

we're not in space at all, but deep underwater.

The excavator's thrusters are cowled propellers. The "stars"

are plankton shining in the floodlights.

INT. EXCAVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Watts steers the excavator to a steeply sloping cliff wall. A

sea-trench yawns below her, its depths lost in darkness.

She watches the screen of a ground-penetrating radar system.

A bright signal return: something hidden in the cliff in

front of her. Something big.

EXT. SEA TRENCH - CONTINUOUS

Watts carves into the cliff with the excavator's digger arm.

Silt and boulders fall into the yawning trench below. She

brings a water cannon to bear: uses its jet to blast away

loose silt and stones.

The cliff face collapses: a muddy landslide into the deeps.

Watts backs away from the collapse, thrusters whirring to

keep her out of the turbulence. A cloud of silt clears.

In her floodlight beams, the OBELISK stands revealed - its

outlines worn by the ages. Easily thirty feet tall.

Watts stares at the obelisk, stunned. Her voice is husky:

A second excavator glides out of the dark.

At the controls: PROFESSOR MARTIN HOLLOWAY, 48, visionary

genius and archaeologist. Dark-haired and lean, with the

rangy build of a frontiersman. He's dressed in work trousers

and a T-shirt. Stubbly chin.

He plays his floodlights over the obelisk.

INT. WATTS'S EXCAVATOR

Watts floats her excavator down the front of the obelisk.

Scanning the alien text. Suddenly she stops. Grips the

obelisk with her excavator's arms to anchor herself in place.

EXT. SEA TRENCH

Holloway pilots his excavator expertly up to Watts's. Mates

the two vehicles at their aft hatchways.

INT. WATTS'S EXCAVATOR

Behind Watts, a hatch opens with a splatter of water.

Holloway climbs in. Squeezes into her cockpit. A tight fit.

He's distracted by her body, pressed so close - but she has

eyes only for the inscrutable writing outside the glass.

EXT. MEDITERRANEAN SEA - DAY

A research vessel at anchor on a turquoise sea. Bright sun.

In the distance, a coastline dotted with villas. The horizon

is dominated by the VOLCANIC PEAK - the same peak we saw in

the distance in the prologue.

Aboard the research vessel, cranes lift Watts and Holloway's

excavators out of the sea and onto the deck.

INT. RESEARCH VESSEL - AFT DECK - DAY

Under an awning, PRINTS of the obelisk's faces are stretched

on the deck - fifteen feet long.

Watts and Holloway crawl over the alien text, red markers in

hand. Parsing, translating, calculating.

They're tanned, fit, the wind in their hair. The

Mediterranean coast in the distance. It's an idyllic way to

work. But they're utterly absorbed in the task at hand.

AFT DECK - NIGHT

They're still at it. Lights illuminate the workspace. The

obelisk prints are blanketed with markings and annotations.

Holloway sits at a table. Watts sits on the marked-up prints.

Both working through calculations on electronic slates.

Holloway looks up.

Watts holds up her slate: it displays a set of stellar

coordinates. A detailed star map. Holloway holds up his own

slate: an exact match. They lock eyes in electric excitement.

EXT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL (EARTH ORBIT)

A gleaming space station like a five-spoked wheel rotates

grandly against the Pacific Ocean a thousand miles below.

Black letters on the white metal read: WEYLAND'S WHEEL.

A round shuttlecraft approaches the station.

INT. SHUTTLECRAFT (ZERO GRAVITY)

A spacecraft no bigger than a private jet.

Holloway and Watts sit strapped into acceleration chairs. The

only two passengers aboard. New to space travel, Watts tears

her eyes from the spectacle of Earth outside the window.

Holloway plays with a pen, batting it from hand to hand in

the zero gravity.

Holloway plucks the pen from the air. He points out the

window, where the crescent Moon shines like a toothy grin.

EXT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL

The shuttle docks with the Wheel's hub - a perfect fit.

INT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL - SPOKE ELEVATOR (ZERO GRAVITY)

A gleaming capsule elevator with windows to the stars.

Holloway and Watts float weightlessly inside, moving from

handhold to handhold. The door closes.

Watts grabs Holloway by the collar. Pulls them roughly

together. They kiss. Not for the first time. They have a way.

Watts's hair and clothing float free: she's a naiad in

Holloway's arms.

EXT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL

The elevator descends along the spoke to the rim.

INT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL - RIM - FOYER

A luxurious lobby. Tasteful lighting. Eames-era furniture in

wood and chrome: the past's vision of the future.

At the rim, the Wheel's rotation supplies gravity. An

elevator door opens. Watts and Holloway step out - Holloway

with a sleek metal folio slung over his shoulder.

The floor is the outer surface of the Wheel: in both

directions it curves upward out of sight.

The walls are all windows: on one side, Earth rotates lazily.

On the other, a wheeling field of stars.

DAVID, an android, stands waiting for them. He's cunningly

built, but no one would mistake him for a real human being.

He strides off across the foyer. Watts and Holloway exchange

a wondering glance and follow.

DAVID leads past models of planets, moons and asteroids.

Holographic labels and data swirl around them.

The end of the hall is dominated by a huge globe of Mars.

Markings indicate widespread surface activity.

PETER WEYLAND sits behind a mahogany desk. He's a Warren

Buffet type: a country sage, horse-sense and hard knocks. He

might be seventy years old, or a hundred and seventy.

Behind him stands DIRECTOR LYDIA VICKERS, a slim woman of 45

in a costly business suit. Shrewd and watchful. Once a great

beauty, she now trades in ruthlessness.

DAVID stands against the wall.

Watts and Holloway settle into chairs in front of Weyland -

Holloway holding the metal folio.

He notices Watts looking curiously at DAVID. He smiles.

Holloway looks at him, startled.

Holloway swallows. Lays the metal folio on Weyland's desk.

He touches a tiny remote. Holographs appear in the air over

Weyland's desk: the folio is a three-dimensional imager.

Pictures of a younger Holloway in the field: excavating ruins

in Egypt, China, Peru, Greece.

Weyland nods. Holloway glances at Watts and forges on.

Watts touches her own remote. The holographic display turns

to scientific diagrams. Images of a very young and beautiful

Watts in the laboratory.

Behind Weyland, Vickers can't suppress a scowl of disdain.

A beat. The others had forgotten Vickers was there.

Photographs flicker through the display: Holloway and Watts

in the field, excavating new sites. Intimately close.

Their finds: columns of writing on stone tablets in Egypt,

China, Cambodia, Peru. Patterns of lines, curves, and dots.

The display shows the Engineer obelisk under the sea.

Holloway deflates. Watts winces. This is a bloodbath.

The scientists stare at Weyland.

He regards their shocked faces with satisfaction.

Watts laughs incredulously. Stifles it. Weyland's not joking.

He swivels his chair toward the window. Earth shines outside.

Weyland jabs a finger at her like she's won a carnival prize.

Holloway and Watts stare at DAVID with new appreciation.

He swivels back to his desk. Rummages in a drawer.

He pulls a thick contract out. Drops it in front of Holloway.

Holloway picks up the contract with the cautious joy of a man

double-checking a lottery ticket. His voice is husky:

Holloway reaches out slowly and picks up the contract.

Riffles the pages of small-print legalese.

Vickers stares at Weyland in shock.

A glittering formation of white crystals. Diamond on diamond.

The structures grow more complex as the view widens. Leaves

and branches of crystal. A shimmering field of white jewels.

A landscape of white crystals, smooth as snow.

EXT. DEEP SPACE

A black void shot with stars, far from any sun.

A sturdy prospecting ship forges through space, travel-worn

but built to last. It carries the Weyland Industries logo.

The name painted on its hull is MAGELLAN.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

The ship's nerve center and control room. Six control

stations, empty and quiet. Interior lights dimmed to blue.

The entire forward bulkhead of the Bridge is a window: wall

to wall, floor to ceiling.

At the window stands the android DAVID.

He gazes at the cosmos with an expression of utter serenity.

After a long moment he turns away. Massive shutters close

over the window as he walks off.

DAVID walks the ship's long central corridor. The ship is

silent. The lights dimmed to blue. He is alone.

A long steel room containing a dozen plexiglass sarcophagi,

six on each side. Sleep freezers. Inside each freezer: the

shadowy shape of a human body rimed with frost.

DAVID walks through the compartment, surveying the sleepers.

DAVID sits at a display table, moving intricate technical

documents across the surface with waves of his hands.

His eyes intent on his work. If he is reading, then he`s

reading at a speed no human could match.

We pull away from the frosted crystalline horizon, the smooth

white curves like snowy fields. Form becomes clear.

It's the body of a woman. It's Watts.

INT. HYPERSLEEP FREEZER

Watts lies asleep in her underwear in a plexiglass freezer.

Pale. Frost on her skin. Venus sculpted in ice. There are IV

lines in her elbows and ankles.

Shapes move into view beyond her, outside the freezer. FACES.

Pressed to the glass.

All of the freezers are open and empty, save two. Holloway

lies in one. In the next, Watts. Three men in blue coveralls

crouch beside Watts's freezer, staring inside.

They are DOWNS, 30, a lean fidgety crewman. STILLWELL, 40, a

sturdy fellow with the geniality of a labrador. And KAMAROV,

26, whose dark, brooding air belongs to a man twice his age.

Kamarov opens the lid of Watt's freezer. Leans over her.

Watts stirs in her sleep, a drowsy angel.

Watts wakes to find three men looming above her. Disoriented,

she pulls away. Tangles her hands in her IV lines.

Holloway's voice cracks like a whip. The crewmen jump back.

Holloway sits up in the next freezer over. He yanks the IV

lines out of his arms and legs. Climbs out of the freezer.

The crewmen file out: Stillwell sheepishly, Downs and Kamarov

surly. Holloway goes to Watts. Gently removes the IV lines

from her ankles while she plucks the ones from her arms.

He helps her up.

INT. MESS ROOM

Holloway and Watts sit at a table, both a bit hung over. They

wear civilian clothes. Warmly dressed, they still look cold.

They nurse mugs of coffee and nibble packaged snack bars.

Watts hunches over, shivering.

Two ship's officers enter the room wearing blue coveralls

with rank insignia: GLASSE, 45, a stocky man with thick black

hair, and BRICK, 50, a bald man with a bristling mustache.

They look at Watts and Holloway with little pleasure.

INT. MAGELLAN - CAPTAIN'S WARDROOM

CAPTAIN JANEK, 45, sits at his desk. With his bristling beard

and powerful build he has a swashbuckling look, like the

captain of a whaling ship.

Holloway and Watts sit on a steel bench in front of him.

He sits scanning his orders: a plastic packet with Weyland

Industries logos, cracked open. Watermarked papers inside.

Janek rubs his face wearily with his hands.

He stands. Presses his palm against a wall panel. A safe

opens. He pulls out a massive pistol in a gunbelt. Tosses the

orders into the safe. Lays the gun atop them and locks it up.

Holloway and Watts take possession of their cabin: a simple

but spacious room with twin beds and a window to the stars.

They drop duffel bags on the bed.

Holloway surveys the arrangement. Frowns. He releases the

magnets that lock the beds down. Slides the beds together.

INT. SCIENTISTS' WORKROOM - DAY

Holloway and Watts set up their workspace - a central display

table and huge display surfaces on the walls. Fascinating

documents slide under their fingertips: an Engineer alphabet.

Ancient art. Climate and genetic data.

DAVID appears in the doorway.

DAVID turns to go. Hesitates in the doorway.

Holloway and Watts look at the android, his words sinking in.

DAVID glances over the documents displayed around the room.

A utilitarian sitting room. Steel benches and table bolted to

the deck. Seated here are two Weyland Industries technicians:

ANDREW CHANCE, 50, a stocky computer engineer with a genial

bearing and a bristling salt-and-pepper mustache.

MONA RAVEL, 45, a dour, rangy woman with a plain face, her

hair pulled severely back. A physicist and chemist.

They wear black Weyland Industries jackets. They radiate

intelligence and competence. These are pros.

DAVID leads Holloway and Watts past the break room. Holloway

spots the technicians. Strides in to greet them.

Watts and the technicians exchange greetings.

Holloway blinks at her. Chance explains, not unkindly:

Holloway and Watts follow the imperturbable DAVID down a

steel corridor to Vickers's cabin door.

An open-plan cabin like an urban loft apartment. Watts and

Holloway follow DAVID inside. Vickers rises to meet them.

The walls are industrial steel - but the floors are lushly

carpeted, the furniture opulent. A king-sized bed, a mahogany

desk, a dining table.

Gleaming machines ensure Vickers never need step outside: a

private hypersleep freezer, an autokitchen, a medical pod.

Holloway gestures with the slate he's brought with him.

Vickers looks at him as if she's dealing with a child.

She walks them toward the door. Interview's over.

The crew - Brick, Glasse, Stillwell, Downs, and Kamarov - sit

on crates in an improvised lecture hall. Holloway and Watts

in front of them. Janek at the back of the room.

A hologram shows ancient images of divine visitations. The

crew is visibly spooked.

Stillwell is staring at the frightening images: gods and

titans towering over mortals.

Kamarov stiffens, smelling blasphemy.

Stillwell's staring unhappily at the ancient images: gods

towering over mortals, inhuman and terrifying.

They turn. Janek grins at Holloway across the cargo bay.

EXT. MAGELLAN (ZETA2 RETICULI SYSTEM)

The Magellan arrives at the periphery of the system. A

distant star like Earth's Sun, surrounded by orbiting

planets: mere sparks at this distance.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Outside the vast Bridge window, the star Zeta2 Reticuli

burns, a cold beacon in the night. Downs, Glasse and Brick

sit at consoles. Janek paces in front of the window.

Holloway and Watts enter - and gape at the view. Janek grins

at their reaction.

EXT. MAGELLAN (ZETA2 RETICULI SYSTEM)

The Magellan opens its eyes: two immense telescopes emerge

from the ship. Irises open to expose huge lenses.

Antennae deploy: unfurling like wings, gleaming and vast.

Sifting vacuum for any whisper of information.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Outside the window, the planets orbiting Zeta2 Reticuli are

no more than bright stars.

A heads-up display appears, overlaid on the glass. The sun is

labeled ZETA2 RETICULI. Markers point out the planets and

trace the ellipses of their orbits.

Like magic, the planets swell into colorful orbs, each

labeled: Alpha, Beta, Gamma...

Watts grins at Holloway, eyes shining.

Vickers walks onto the Bridge with DAVID.

EXT. MAGELLAN (ZETA2 RETICULI SYSTEM)

Twin telescopes spin and zoom. Antennae flex and focus.

The planet nearest the sun rushes closer as the mighty

telescopes zoom in.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

The Magellan's sensors peel planet Alpha like an onion and

put it back together again.

A river of data floods the display, bathing the watchers'

faces with light: Chemical compounds, magnetic field lines,

lunar orbits, topographical data.

The scan moves on to the next planet, and the next.

On the H.U.D., the data stream completes the last planet.

Begins to illuminate the gas giants' moons.

The display centers on Epsilon, a gas giant with many moons.

Data flickers around one of the larger moons: LV-426.

The sensors complete their pass on the system's last moon.

EXT. MAGELLAN (ZETA2 RETICULI SYSTEM)

The Magellan retracts its vast antennae and telescopes.

The engines fire: the ship rockets toward the gas giant

Epsilon and its mysterious moon.

Leaving the Bridge, Holloway and Watts find themselves

walking aft alongside DAVID.

Watts smiles, watching Holloway's sport. DAVID's speech never

varies from its agreeable tone.

The scientists look at DAVID in wonder.

He turns his unearthly eyes on them.

Holloway and Watts lie on their bed in their clothes - her

head on his chest.

He laughs.

EXT. MAGELLAN (LV-426 ORBIT)

The Magellan has arrived.

LV-426 is a gray moon shrouded in clouds. Behind it looms its

father planet Epsilon, a lurid gas giant banded in red and

gold, half swallowed in darkness.

The Magellan dives into a forced orbit around LV-426: rockets

firing continually, nose pointed down. Telescopes, sensors

and antennae sprout once more from its hull.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Everyone's here. Janek and his crew seated at control

stations. Holloway and Watts standing on the foredeck.

Vickers and DAVID. Ravel and Chance.

LV-426 fills the window: a gray orb of mist. The ground

invisible beneath the clouds. Sporadic lightning flickers.

That thought sends a nervous shiver through the others. Janek

nods at Glass and Brick. They study their instruments.

EXT. MAGELLAN (LV-426 ORBIT)

Radar emitters extend from their housings like cannons. A

THUMP of power as they hammer out a blast of energy.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

The display paints data on the moonscape as the wavefront

comes back: terrain rendered in luminous green.

Kamarov shakes his head fearfully. Crosses himself.

The display fills with light: a wave of terrain data sweeping

across the moon's surface as the Magellan orbits.

A jolt of excitement pounds through everyone on the Bridge.

EXT. MAGELLAN (LV-426 ORBIT)

The Magellan sweeps on around the gray moon, radar emitters

humming, antennae and telescopes open wide. The gas giant

Epsilon fills the sky behind LV-426.

As it circles, the Magellan launches SATELLITES. Metal motes

hurled into polar orbits around the Moon.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Twenty-four "hard spots" shine on the moon's surface: an

irregular array circling LV-426.

A new signal appears on the map. Brighter than the others.

EXT. MAGELLAN (IN ATMOSPHERE)

The prospecting ship descends through buffeting grey clouds.

Telescopes and antennae stowed away. Hull streaming vapor as

it cuts atmosphere.

Lightning flashes and booms around the descending ship.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Everyone strapped into chairs - except Janek, who stands

gripping a stanchion, his boots planted on the deck.

The landing engines roar. Wind screams over the hull. Mist

whips across the Bridge window, obscuring any view. Watts

reaches out. Squeezes Holloway's hand.

The Magellan breaks through the cloud cover into clear air.

Below the ship, a vast and eerie landscape is revealed. Wide

valleys mottled with thin dark ground cover. Barren crags and

spires of rock. Waterless and wind-swept.

Watts gasps. Stares at the grim and foreign country.

EXT. MAGELLAN (IN ATMOSPHERE)

The Magellan thunders over valleys and craggy ridges of rock.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Janek takes the helm. Guides the Magellan down a valley as if

it were a helicopter. A pilot born.

They crest a mountain higher than Everest.

Before them stretches a dry barren plain. Scattered rocky

peaks rise from the desert floor - an alien Monument Valley.

Holloway points to a smaller mountain peak. Oddly regular.

Janek expertly swings the Magellan sideways. The Magellan

circles the mount, nose pointed inward.

It revolves below the watchers: flat faces, clean edges - but

cracked and timework. It glitters like coal.

Glasse nods irritably. Of course they're recording.

Vickers stares at the pyramidal peak, nonplussed. Teetering

on the brink of belief. Watts scans the data readouts.

EXT. LV-426 - SECOND PEAK

A second oddly regular peak, even more decrepit than the

first, sits on the brink of a vast canyon. Landslides have

eaten at its edges.

The Magellan purrs over the landscape, dwarfed by the scale.

Drops between the canyon walls to circle the mount.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Holloway and Watts stare at the structure. Beginning to get

over the shock. Thinking like scientists again.

The scientists pay him no mind. They're past that.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Janek pilots by instruments alone. Clouds obscuring the view.

The ship descends into clear air. A stunning panorama unfolds

before them: craters, hundreds of meters across, connected by

trenches. Like a pattern of crop-circles sunk in the rock.

In the middle of the central crater - a huge angular peak,

larger than the others. The Magellan circles the site. It's

awe-inspiring. Cryptic. Huge.

Holloway stares in rapture. Glances at Watts: she nods, eyes

shining. She's with him.

The crew's still skeptical - but starting to wonder. They

shake their heads and exchange looks.

Watts looks out at the timeworn peak. Its eroded facets.

EXT. CRATER COMPLEX - DAY

From the central crater, four canals extend outward like

points of the compass. Some connect to smaller craters.

One canal peters out, flush with the desert floor.

The Magellan lands at the end of this canal - half a

kilometer from the central crater.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

They stare out the window, down the wide straight canal at

the pyramidal peak in the distance. Holloway looks around.

Janek glances at his instruments.

Watts looks at him incredulously.

EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK - DAY

The expedition party emerges from the airlocks - riding CARGO

ROVERS, robotic vehicles just smart enough to carry their

owners around, or follow along behind them.

The rovers' beds are loaded with gear; the explorers ride on

running-board seats. All wear space suits.

Holloway drives the first rover with Watts beside him.

Stillwell, Kamarov, and Downs in back.

DAVID drives the second rover with Milburn, Fifield, Chance

and Ravel aboard.

The crew of the Magellan exchange uneasy looks. Still

uncertain what to think.

EXT. ENTRY CANAL - DAY

The trench grows deeper as they follow it toward the central

crater - the pyramidal peak framed ahead of them like a

monument on a triumphal avenue.

They cross a perpendicular canal. Glancing left and right,

they see smaller craters with central peaks of their own.

They pass through the shadow of a high promontory of stone

atop one bank of the canal.

We see - and they do not - that the far side of the

promontory has a Sphinx-like FACE of monumental size. So

eroded that its artificial nature is uncertain.

EXT. CENTRAL CRATER - DAY

The crater floor is a vast enclosed plain. The pyramidal

mount looms in the center - colossal in scale.

The rovers enter the crater, trailing plumes of dust. They

circle the pyramid.

On the south face of the pyramid, an IRIS DOOR of many blades

stands, easily fifty feet high. Seemingly made of the same

basaltic stone as the pyramid itself. A huge construction.

The explorers are transfixed in awe. All skepticism banished.

Watts stares at the iris. Its bottom-most blade is broken; it

lies in rubble at the foot of the door. A dark knife-like

aperture leads into the pyramid.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Janek and Vickers watch the explorers' progress in the main

holographic display: their tinny voices echoing over the comm

link. At the sight of the huge iris door in the pyramid, both

Janek and Vickers stare in blank astonishment.

He turns to stare out the window at the pyramid's peak.

Vickers turns and slips out of the Bridge. Hurries away.

Vickers strides through her quarters. On the far wall there

are two small doors.

She opens the first: steps into a luxurious bathroom. Washes

a pill down with a tumbler of water.

Returns to her cabin and opens the second small door.

SECRET ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A chamber walled with steel panels. A deep hum of ventilation

and power: there's a lot of technology here.

She turns to a console beside the door. Flips a row of

switches. The hum deepens. Hidden mechanisms stir to life.

EXT. PYRAMID - IRIS DOOR

On foot, explorers press inside - Holloway and Watts in the

lead. Their flashlights cut into the gloom.

The robotic rovers follow them: their six-wheeled chassis

with independent suspension trundling over the rubble

barrier, sure-footed as goats.

INT. PYRAMID - ANTECHAMBER

Dark and cavernous. Weak daylight slants in.

The explorers press into the darkness on foot - the cargo

rovers' headlights flashing on. They move through a dark

cathedral space, empty and bare.

DAVID looks around in fascination, his eyes raking the walls.

His voice trembles with urgency. He shines light on the rock.

Symbols engraved on the dark surface. Dots, lines and arcs.

DAVID stands beside them. Stares at the alien writing.

Watts passes her light over the writing, recording it. They

move on into the dark.

DAVID lingers. Reading.

PYRAMID - VARIOUS PASSAGES

The interior is a labyrinth. Corridors big as railway tunnels

intersecting and diverging.

The explorers wend their way deeper. Several carry map units,

whose holographic displays render three-dimensional maps that

expand as they explore.

INT. PYRAMID - MASSIVE CHAMBER

Holloway leads the explorers deeper into the complex. The

motors of the cargo rovers whine and growl.

DAVID trails the others, eyes raking the blank walls as if he

sees something there. He reaches out. Passes his hand through

the air as if grasping a cobweb.

A STRANGE RUMBLING NOISE sounds down the corridor, freezing

them. Holloway sweeps his light that way. The sound comes

again: a DEMONIC VOICE speaking some unearthly language.

Watts looks at Holloway - but his eyes are focused on the

dark ahead. He moves forward. A beat. The others follow.

An APPARITION appears before them. A PALE, LUMINOUS GIANT

fifteen feet tall, with hollow eyes and a grotesque snout. It

strides toward them. Speaks in a sonorous voice.

Pandemonium.

Watts backpedals involuntarily. Seeing Holloway stand his

ground, she reaches out to him in a panic.

But Holloway doesn't budge. Stares at the Apparition in

fascination. Everyone else scatters - except DAVID, who

stands stock-still by the wall.

Watts watches as the Apparition walks right up to Holloway.

Disappears with a sizzle of static as Holloway experiences

the creature passing through him.

Silence. Watts returns to Holloway's side. Stillwell and

Downs are huddled on the deck. Milburn and Fifield have

fallen back down the passageway.

Unseen by the others, DAVID reaches out and repeats his

gesture in the air.

A rumbling sound down the corridor, as before. Moments later,

the Apparition appears round the corner again. They stand

their ground: the ghostly giant strides toward them, exactly

as before, and disappears with a crackle.

He hauls a heavy rolling case out of the cargo rover.

Sulking, Milburn takes the rolling case. The remaining

explorers watch Fifield and Milburn backtrack into the dark.

CORE CHAMBER DOOR

Holloway and Watts lead their party up to a massive door,

sealed tight. In design and scale, undeniably important.

Holloway glances at his map.

Ravel waves a sensor over the wall.

Chance begins to inspect the frame of the door.

DAVID looks as if they fail to see something obvious. He

points at a spot on the wall beside the massive slab.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DAY

Janek stands at the window, looking down the long canal at

the distant pyramid.

The ship's powerful imaging systems stream data: stereoscopic

feeds from the explorers' flashlights; a map that grows as

they explore. The maze under the pyramid drawn in light.

A globe of LV-426 blooms with terrain and weather data as the

satellites feed the ship information.

Vickers appears at Janek's side.

INT. PYRAMID - HUB

A junction where multiple passageways converge.

Milburn and Fifield trudge into the space, trundling the

probe cases behind them. Tunnels lead away in all directions.

They open the case. CAMERA PROBES tumble out: spheres the

size of softballs, studded with lenses and sensors.

Tiny lights come on as the probes awaken. They roll off,

dispersing to investigate every passageway. Bumbling into

walls and pillars, reversing. Exploring by random walk.

They stare at each other.

He trudges back the way they came, in disgust.

CORE CHAMBER DOOR

DAVID stands on top of one of the cargo rovers. He's cut a

hole in the wall beside the door, high up: he works with

probes in the mechanisms inside.

A deep BOOM, echoing inside the ancient walls. Nothing moves.

He moves a control. BOOM. The immense door begins to rise.

PYRAMID - CORE CHAMBER

The vast central chamber of the pyramid. An immense space.

Holloway walks in, his flashlight searching. Watts hurries

after. The others follow, rovers tagging along.

A colossal structure stands in the center of the chamber,

convoluted and strange. A mechanism. Chasms yawn in the floor

all around it, their depths lost in darkness.

The explorers enter, rovers in train. They lift their eyes:

hundreds of feet above them they see the pyramid's apex from

within. A SHAFT OF DIFFUSE LIGHT penetrates the pyramid

somewhere near the peak.

The android's awareness is keyed to a high pitch. He seems to

read meaning in the inscrutable structures all around them.

Holloway hauls a drone case out of the rover. Two dozen

spherical drones tumble out, wake up, and roll off into the

dark. They are nimble, hopping curbs and skirting chasms.

Watts looks at her atmosphere sensor. Astonished.

The core chamber brightens as the sun outside moves into

alignment. The shaft of light perfectly centered.

A vast SIGH as if the pyramid itself is breathing.

A fat drop of water falls on Watts's glove. She looks up in

surprise. Another falls on her visor. And then it's raining

inside the pyramid.

Water trickles into the chasms, inundating the mossy growths

that cling to the walls.

Holloway looks at Watts with a little boy's grin.

The shaft of light moves on. The core chamber dims slightly.

The rainfall stops as suddenly as it started.

The explorers follow the main path around the periphery of

the chamber, past a gallery of mysterious machines.

There are marvels in the shadows. Cells in the dark apparatus

open on startling deposits of color: translucent alabaster

flutes. Honeycombs of pure gold. Matrices of crystal.

Watts waves a scanning instrument as she walks.

PYRAMID - CORE CHAMBER - RAMP

They arrive at a wide opening in the floor. A strange ramp

curves downward - its floor segmented and saw-toothed.

A bafflement: it's not a staircase. Not an escalator. No

moving parts. No rails or tracks.

As they stand looking, a probe bumbles up to the opening and

goes bounding down the ramp. Watts laughs.

She begins to descend on foot. Holloway behind her.

Stillwell, Downs, and Kamarov grudgingly follow.

But DAVID looks away across the cavernous chamber - fixated

on the central crystal. He beckons Ravel and Chance to follow

him, and walks away.

Ravel and Chance look at each other in astonishment.

Uncertainly, they follow DAVID.

Holloway, Watts, and the crewmen reach the bottom of the

ramp, breathing hard. A cargo rover trundles down after them.

They look back up. The ramp above them is empty.

But Watts is staring through an archway. Transfixed.

She walks in. Holloway follows.

A passageway punctuated by alcoves as big as band-shells.

In each alcove stands a biomechanical apparatus - shaped from

the same dark material as the pyramid itself. Each apparatus

implies by its design that a giant is meant to fit inside it.

Holloway and Watts walk the concourse, playing their lights

over the dark machinery. Their footsteps echo.

Watts fiddles with her suit's comm controls. Listening.

INT. PYRAMID - BLIND CORRIDOR

Milburn and Fifield are lost. They bumble through the dark.

He points at a detail of the architecture.

Static.

Holloway and Watts round a corner and stop in their tracks.

Kamarov, Stillwell, and Downs almost run into them.

The scientists stand frozen.

In front of them lies a dead giant. An ENGINEER.

If he were standing, he would be fifteen feet tall.

He is roughly human in shape. Barrel-chested. Withered to the

bones. There are bulky protrusions fused with his flesh: hard

to say whether they are equipment or parts of his body.

His head, lolling to one side, is severed from his body.

His eyes seem to be covered by goggles; but if so then the

goggles are fused with his skull. An elephantine proboscis,

severed now, once connected to a protrusion on his hip.

The giant lies frozen in a convulsion of agony. His jaw

gaping in a silent scream. His corpse is marred by hideous

wounds: slashes that cut through bone.

The explorers move closer. Speechless.

He lifts his light. Beyond the dead giant, a vision of Hell:

A dozen DEAD ENGINEERS lie heaped against a sealed door.

Twisted in postures of torment, murdered in the attempt to

escape. All bear horrific wounds.

Scene of an ancient massacre.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Janek and Vickers stare dumbstruck at a 3-D view of the dead

giants captured by the explorers' cameras.

INT. CATACOMB - INTERSECTION

The explorers circle the decapitated giant, hushed with awe.

Holloway steps close.

Lays a gloved hand reverently on the giant's ribs.

Watts joins Holloway beside the dead Engineer. Touches the

corpse in her own turn. It's hard as stone: ossified. She

traces the ancient, terrible wounds.

Downs stands staring at the dead giant, as shaken as Kamarov.

Static.

EXT. SPACE - LV-426 ORBIT

One of the Magellan's satellites hurtles along, high above

the moon's atmosphere. It passes over the terminator line

between the night side and day side.

Through the clouds below, a lightning-laced storm front rolls

across LV-426 like a wave.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

Rising winds pluck at the ground cover outside the window.

Janek turns from the view to look at the holographic globe.

INT. DARK CITY - CATACOMBS - INTERSECTION

Standing beside the dead giant, Watts and Holloway look at

each other as the signal comes in.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

Janek shouts into his communicator.

EXT. CENTRAL CRATER - DUSK

Holloway races their cargo rover away from the pyramid,

wheels kicking up dust.

Watts rides in back, securing a bulky payload under a tarp on

the cargo deck. Stillwell, Downs, and Kamarov clinging

miserably beside her. Watts looks back:

A massive storm front chases them. A tidal wave of dust shot

through with lightning. Gale-force winds tear at the ground.

Lightning lashes the pyramid and the crater wall.

Reaching the Magellan, they see the other rover already in

the airlock lift. DAVID, Ravel, and Chance aboard.

EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK LIFT

Holloway roars into the lift at speed, the rover skidding

almost into the opposite wall. Watts leaps down.

The storm wall catches up to them. Screaming winds rip

through the lift. Dust fills the air. Visibility plunges

toward zero.

She pulls at the tarp. It tears halfway free - and fills with

wind, snapping taut with such violence that Watts is hurled

out into the storm.

IN THE GALE

Watts tumbles helplessly: a leaf in the wind. CRASHES into a

metal stanchion. Clings, the wind knocked out of her. Ears

ringing. Nothing but static in her headset.

IN THE LIFT

Holloway stares in shock at the place where Watts vanished.

With inhuman reflexes DAVID reacts. Grabs a tether. Latches

it to his suit. Locks it to an anchor point on the wall.

Dives into the storm. A ballet nearly too fast to follow.

IN THE GALE

DAVID lets the wind take him. Skids across the ground,

controlling his trajectory. He hits the stanchion where Watts

is lodged with a CLANG as if he were made of iron.

Watts stares at him in mute astonishment.

He locks her suit to his. Activates the tether unit's winch.

It whirs, reeling them in through the hurricane.

IN THE LIFT

Holloway and the other crewmen haul Watts and DAVID back

inside. Holloway and Watts embrace fiercely as the lift rises

toward the safety of the ship.

The crewmen bundle the rover's tarp-wrapped cargo into a

sealed dumbwaiter that rises independently into the ship.

INT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK

The explorers strip off space suits.

Watts pulls her helmet off. Catches DAVID's eye across the

airlock. Mouths a silent Thank you. He gives her the barest

nod and vanishes into the ship.

The explorers exchange looks. A mood of exuberance and wonder

prevails now that they're safe home.

Smiles of wonder as what they've seen comes home.

The explorers from Watts and Holloway's party exchange looks

and burst into laughter.

He points. The lockers labeled MILBURN and FIFIELD stand

closed. The helmet racks empty. The laughter cuts off.

They stare at each other, listening to the wind wail outside.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

Janek speaks urgently into the communicator.

INT. DARK CITY - CATACOMB

Fifield and Milburn stand miserably in a murky passageway.

Fifield hitches up his space suit's crotch uncomfortably.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

A burst of static answers him: Fifield's voice scrambled by

the storm. Unintelligible.

MESS ROOM - NIGHT

All hands present excepting the two missing men. Janek plays

his squeeze box, its archaic music filling the air. Tired and

exuberant, the men sway and dance mockingly.

Holloway has a champagne bottle open in each hand. He fills

steel cups left and right.

They raise cups and drink. Even the crew moved by the moment.

But Janek smiles crookedly and toasts again.

INT. PYRAMID CATACOMBS - NIGHT

A vast dark maze. Milburn and Fifield grope their way through

the dark with flashlights. The storm howls outside.

INT. MAGELLAN - VICKERS'S SUITE - NIGHT

DAVID stands beside Vickers at her holography terminal. He

lays his hand on over a signal plate - and the terminal

lights up with a three-dimensional image.

The core chamber of the pyramid, from DAVID's point of view.

It's apparent that DAVID's eyes see more than human eyes do.

He seems to see heat and electromagnetic energy as well as

visible light; calibrated readouts are overlaid on the scene.

The structures in the pyramid are surrounded by complicated

patterns of energy. This is incomprehensible technology.

Vickers goes rigid, looking at it: avarice in her eyes.

A high-tech science facility behind glass. Watts and

Holloway, in lab gloves and smocks, open the dumbwaiter:

An ENGINEER'S HEAD rises into view, ghoulish and elephantine.

Vapor rises from it. A readout blinks: STERILIZED.

They lift it onto the steel table. It takes both of them.

They pass scanners over the skull. Images accumulate and

rotate on the laboratory displays. X-ray and ultrasound.

Holloway leans close to study an X-ray image. He almost seems

to see a ghostly second face...

She traces the head with an ultrasound probe: under the

vibrations a seam opens up around the edge of the face.

She gets a fingertip into the seam. Works with a probe. Pries

away the long-dead Engineer's mask. It comes free.

The visage revealed is human, except for its giant scale.

White-skinned. Earless. Hairless. Withered but beautiful as a

Greek statue. Eyes closed. An expression of suffering on its

face. Watts drops the ultrasound probe in shock.

Vickers and DAVID stand outside the lab window, staring in at

the god's head. Vickers looks shaken. DAVID, fascinated.

Watts covers her nose in revulsion. A horrible stench: The

Engineer head begins to disintegrate in front of them. Flesh

oozing, skin peeling. Accelerated decay.

Urgently they ransack cabinets and storage rooms. Watts finds

a clear plastic drum and dumps its contents. Holloway drags

five-gallon jugs of preservative out of a cabinet.

DAVID watches through the window, almost amused.

They lift the rotting head into the drum, retching. Fingers

skidding in putrefaction.

They pour formaldehyde over it. As soon as the head is

immersed they rush to strip off their reeking gloves and

smocks, scrubbing their hands.

The god's head sits in its murky vat, shedding skin and tofu-

like chunks of white flesh. The noble face disintegrating.

Watts and Holloway stare at it, breathing hard from their

work. Vickers flicks on the intercom from outside the window.

Watts stares at Vickers incredulously.

Silence. Holloway looks at Vickers wearily, as if he's seen

this conversation coming. He glances at Watts.

Watts rises to the challenge. Thinking on her feet.

Holloway grins, exuberant. His theory playing out perfectly.

He doesn't see Vickers stiffen. Her hands curling into fists.

Watts stares at the head in its tank. The severed neck.

INT. CATACOMBS - INSECT CHAMBER

Milburn and Fifield have bunked down in a new chamber: they

slouch against a wall. Milburn sweeps the room with his

headlamp. Stoops to lift something into the light.

A CENTIPEDE, three feet long and thick as man's thumb. Its

hard shell is gray. It has a hammer-head like a shark.

He leaps back, wild-eyed.

Milburn laughs at him. Lets the eyeless centipede wind its

segmented body around his space-suited arm.

In the flat face, a white vertical slit appears. Changes

quickly to a horizontal position; opens enough to suggest a

mouth. Milburn doesn't notice this development.

The centipede spirals around his arm, glittering, its body

moving in fluid waves. The blind head quests between his

fingers. Milburn loses his nerve as the thing's mouth

suddenly gapes wide as a shark's.

He tries to pull it off.

The centipede locks its segments together and digs in with

its body. It might as well be made of iron.

Fifield pulls out a utility knife. Cuts into the centipede's

body behind its head.

A gout of greed ACID spills over Milburn's glove. Smoke rises

as the acid quickly burns a hole through the material.

Milburn's shout of astonishment turns to a wail of agony.

The centipede snakes into the smoking hole in the glove.

Crawls upward into Milburn's suit - toward his head.

INT. MAGELLAN - LABORATORY - NIGHT

Holloway stands studying the data displays: cross-sections of

the Engineer's skull.

Watts scrutinizes the head itself, her nose an inch from the

plastic tank. Not a pretty sight.

As she watches, a current in the formaldehyde peels away one

gossamer eyelid. The revealed eye is black as obsidian,

iridescent like opal. A jewel.

Fascinated, Watts pulls out a plastic case. Opens it to

reveal a high-tech control unit with a screen. She pops open

a plastic capsule: removes a tiny SEED PROBE, smaller than a

grain of rice. Drops it into the vat.

Under her guidance, the seed probe swims to the severed neck.

Burrows into the medulla oblongata toward the brain.

ON A SCREEN: In the probe's POV the medulla looks like a

tunnel. The probe climbs along neural channels.

Another screen shows the probe's progress through the skull.

Glasse enters. Stands beside Holloway to watch Watts at work.

The seed probe reaches the optic nerve of the exposed eye -

and its POV fills with a vision of glory: a beautiful woman's

face surrounded by a mystical nimbus of light. An angel.

Glasse and Holloway gasp. The woman in the blurry vision is

Watts - as seen by the dead Engineer's eye.

The image dissolves into noise. Error messages flicker across

the display. Watts sighs.

Holloway stares at Watts, awe on his face.

AT A LAB TABLE

Watts dissects one of the Engineer's eyes - working

underwater in a shallow tub of preservative. Glasse looks on

avidly, an unabashed fan.

Watts wears a pair of magnifying goggles on her forehead -

the lenses lowering and rising at need.

She bisects the apple-sized eyeball carefully and extracts

the hard lens from behind the cornea. Holds the lens up to

her eye. It is opalescent, almost luminous.

The uncorrected view through the lens is blurry.

Glasse reaches out and plucks the magnifying goggles from

Watts's forehead. He grins.

INT. CATACOMBS - INSECT CHAMBER

Milburn writhes on the ground, heels drumming frantically

against the deck. Excruciating screams.

Fifield kneels over him, helplessly pulling at the tail of

the centipede - which has all but vanished into Milburn's

suit. A trickle of scarlet from the hole.

Fifield is delirious with horror. He clutches at the

centipede in vain. It slips through his gloves.

Milburn claws at Fifield, wild-eyed.

He convulses. Spits blood. The head of the centipede emerges

between his teeth. He seizes. Choking and dying.

He leaps up. Backs away. Runs into the dark.

INT. CATACOMBS - LONELY PASSAGE - NIGHT

Fifield stumbles along. Exhausted. Pouring sweat inside his

suit. He is hopelessly lost. He slams into a resinous

structure that topples to the floor. Things break.

He whips his light around in jittery paranoia. Taps at his

comm controls, getting only static.

In Fifield's headlamp beam, the blackness is filling with

motes of light. A blizzard of tiny flying insects.

SCARABS.

Scarabs flit through the darkness around him. They alight on

his shoulders. Crawl over his visor. Obscuring his vision.

He swats at his visor, killing some. The crushed insects

produce acid that eats into the plexiglass in seconds.

He twists, craning with his flashlight to inspect himself.

Brushes scarabs away right and left.

Acid opens a hole in his visor. Scarabs are inside. Buzzing

around his head. Fifield freaks out, clawing at his helmet.

A scarab bites his cheek.

The microscopic world - as strange DNA invades Fifield's

bloodstream. Virulent strands of protein attack the native

DNA, transforming...

As his pupils dilate, breath hissing into his nostrils. His

expanding body stiffens as if shocked by a powerful electric

current. He screams. Falls, convulsing.

EXT. MAGELLAN - NIGHT

The storm batters the ship, bouncing it on its suspension.

SCIENTISTS' CABIN - NIGHT

Watts and Holloway lie in bed, exhausted. Arms around each

other. Watts stares into space.

Holloway contemplates the question.

She slaps at him. Holloway laughs.

Janek stands at the Bridge window, staring out into the

storm. Buffeting clouds and howling winds. The lighthouse

beams of the Magellan's beacons sweeping through the cloud.

He plays his squeeze box in the teeth of the storm.

Behind him, DAVID appears on the Bridge. Steals across the

Bridge to a ladder. Descends into the compartment below...

NAVIGATION COMPUTER ROOM

DAVID activates the navigation computer terminal: light

bathes his face. His fingers fly over the keyboard, silently

and swiftly, with superhuman dexterity.

EXT. MAGELLAN - DAWN

Daylight filters through the clouds. The storm has passed.

The Magellan sits intact on its landing struts.

INT. MAGELLAN - VICKERS'S SUITE - SECRET ROOM - DAWN

The high-tech room hums at a different frequency now.

Indicator lights green and ready. Vickers throws switches.

Four HIBERNATION PODS slide out of the metal walls. From each

pod, a muscular SOLDIER rouses from sleep. They are scarred

and crew-cut. Tough customers. They wake like veterans.

Their leader sits up and clasps his head with a wince. This

is CAPTAIN SHEPHERD, a career mercenary who has followed the

highest paycheck to this strange duty.

Lydia Vickers. I'm your authority.

Vickers strides forward. Four soldiers at her heels: Captain

Shepherd, VIGODA, RAY, and CARD. They walk in unison, their

boots drumming on the deck.

Holloway and Watts lie sleeping. The distant drum of marching

feet rouses them. Watts frowns at Holloway.

E.V.A. ROOM

The prep room inside the airlocks. A soldier, VIGODA, waits

there: a slim dark man with an air of calm.

Holloway and Watts arrive in civilian clothes, perplexed.

The scientists are dumbfounded. His presence is impossible.

Vigoda glances at a mapping unit.

CORRIDOR - VICKERS'S CABIN DOOR

A furious Holloway and Watts, trailed by Vigoda, arrive at

Vickers's cabin. They are astonished to find Shepherd

standing guard at the door.

Vickers sits calmly at her desk. Holloway and Watts stand in

front of her, bristling.

Vickers looks at them unflappably. Sure of her ground now.

Watts and Holloway exchange grim looks. Vickers has them.

She glances across the suite at her holographic display: a

live feed from the pyramid worksite, where DAVID works on the

terraforming equipment.

Watts approaches the holography terminal, staring at the

images in horror.

INT. PYRAMID - CORE CHAMBER - DAY

Watts and Holloway, in space suits, arrive on the scene:

Powerful floodlights illuminate the core chamber, beating

back the gloom. A fine spray of water falls out of the

darkness overhead.

DAVID, Chance, and Ravel are dismantling the hulking

mechanism at the core of the pyramid - peeling its thick skin

away with power saws and compact explosives.

DAVID operates a diamond-bladed hull saw, carving away the

terraforming systems thick skin.

Robotic scanners take high-resolution scans of the machinery.

Two Weyland Security soldiers - Card and Ray - stand guard in

combat vacuum suits. Automatic rifles at the ready.

Watts takes in the destruction with dismay. Beside her,

Holloway is all but gnashing his teeth.

Janek drives a cargo rover carrying a search party,

flashlight beams sweeping: Stillwell, Glasse, Downs, and

Brick. Janek studies an electronic map as he drives.

PYRAMID - CORE CHAMBER

Watts watches in rage as a large section of the central

mechanism's falls with a thunderous clamor to the deck.

Holloway touches her shoulder. Motions for her to follow.

Holloway and Watts pass the dead Engineers they discovered

the previous day.

Holloway plays his flashlight over the biomechanical

apparatuses lining the walls.

They turn a corner. DEAD ENGINEERS lie scattered over the

floor in front of them. Desiccated and skeletal. Long dead.

Watts moves among them, fascinated. These Engineers all died

of explosive chest wounds: ribs bent outward from within.

They are otherwise unmarked.

Holloway's more interested in the mechanisms: high-tech iron

maidens, built to fit the bodies of giants. Some suggest

sitting positions, others standing. Their design is invasive:

meant not merely to embrace, but to penetrate, to fuse.

Watts and Holloway explore a wide colonnade. She is still

distracted by the ancient dead; he by the machinery.

Holloway walks down a narrow branching hall. So intent on the

mechanisms in the walls, he almost doesn't see the AIRSHAFT

plunging down into darkness in front of him.

He stops just in time. Turns back...

A GHOST appears right in front of him - a giant dragging

himself across the floor, his monstrous visage eye to eye

with Holloway and looming closer.

Holloway leaps back with a gasp - and falls down the shaft.

The ghost stares after him as if watching his fall.

Disappears in a puff of static.

Watts crosses down the main colonnade, searching.

An iris door closes over the shaft.

Searching, Watts walks anxiously through the dark, sweeping

with her light. Shouting for Holloway. She breaks into a run.

CATACOMBS - MILBURN'S RESTING PLACE

Janek and Stillwell stand aghast. Their flashlights

illuminate a hideous sight:

Milburn lies dead on the deck. His body contorted in agony.

His head inside his helmet is gnawed down to the bone.

Stillwell removes the dead man's helmet. The CENTIPEDE

scuttles out onto the deck: doubled in size. Stillwell leaps

back with a cry.

Janek pulls his pistol. Puts three rounds through the bug. It

dies in a spray of acid that burns holes in the black floor.

Janek watches in astonishment as a pin-prick dot of acid eats

a pit in his gunbarrel.

Downs approaches, holding pieces of a shattered helmet: the

stencilled lettering on the helmet reads FIFIELD.

Janek's jaw clenches grimly. His voice is resigned:

They look down at the ravaged corpse.

INT. MAGELLAN - VICKERS'S SUITE

Vickers stares at her holography terminal: it displays

Janek's helmet-cam view: the Milburn's body, sealed in clear

plastic in the bed of a cargo rover.

Vickers looks nervously from one video feed to the next.

Vickers turns: Captain Shepherd stands behind her, watching.

She strives to control the quaver in her voice.

CATACOMBS - JUNCTURE

Watts stands beside Janek's rover in a wide dark passageway.

Janek sighs. Glances at the rover: Milburn dead in the back,

Stillwell, Downs and Kamarov looking jumpy and eager to go.

Downs shakes his head grimly: No way.

DAVID steps out of the dark. Calm as ever. A slim machine gun

slung over his shoulder.

EXT. MAGELLAN - DAY

Janek and his crew unload Milburn's body from the rover.

Stillwell uses a remote to lower an ore hopper from the belly

of the ship. A thick steel bin on heavy chains. He loads the

body bag into the hopper.

INT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK

The crewmen enter one at a time - blasted by sterilizing

sprays and radiations.

INT. PYRAMID - LOWER PASSAGE

DAVID and Watts move through the dark. She searches with her

flashlight beam. DAVID looks around in the dark as if the

catacomb were illuminated. Rapt admiration on his face.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

Janek stands on the Bridge, looking out at the fading light.

A towering wall of cloud rushes over the horizon.

A storm front rolls across the holographic globe.

INT. PYRAMID - LOWER PASSAGE

DAVID and Watts keep searching. Their communicators crackle.

Watts squints into the darkness. She sees nothing.

She sees it. A dim light bobbing far ahead in the passageway.

She runs forward - finds Holloway staggering blearily toward

her, leaning on the wall. His helmet and most of his gear are

missing; only his chest lamp shines.

He's disoriented: he stares at her face for a moment before

she registers. His teeth chatter. He's freezing.

He waves a hand vaguely at the tunnels behind him.

DAVID removes his own helmet. Fits it over Holloway's head.

EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK LIFT - DUSK

DAVID - bareheaded in the winds - walks Watts and Holloway

onto the airlock.

DAVID looks over his shoulder at the canal leading back to

the central crater. As the airlock lift begins to rise, he

steps backward out into the storm. Turns and runs through the

gale toward the pyramid.

Watts watches him go in astonishment.

INT. MAGELLAN - EXCURSION CHAMBER

Watts helps Holloway out of his space suit. Janek looks on.

Holloway still looks too weary to think straight. He nods.

He stands abruptly, swaying a little.

Holloway and Watts walk aft toward their cabin. Watts looks

worried - but Holloway shows little of the weakness he just

claimed to feel.

SCIENTISTS' CABIN - WASHROOM - NIGHT

Holloway stands shirtless in the tiny space, brushing his

teeth. A red weal around his neck.

Watts stands beside him, watching him in the mirror.

He spits. Rinses. She touches the mark on his neck.

He rubs his neck, eyes far away. Watts watches him curiously.

He turns to her.

Watts stares at him, her eyes coming alight.

Holloway trembles. A sheen of sweat on his skin.

He's frightened. Brazens through it. Pulls her into his arms.

He kisses her.

Holloway tumbles Watts onto the bed. Pulls her shirt off.

They struggle out of their clothes, clinging to one another.

Holloway's ill at ease: something's wrong inside him, he

feels it. He dives into Watts as if for refuge. They make

love.

Sitting atop Holloway, Watts lays a hand on his chest.

Vulnerability in his voice. Fear under the surface.

He rolls on top of her. Drives her into the mattress. She

holds him protectively: not deceived by his bravado.

Suddenly Holloway tenses, muscles rigid. Shuddering. Watts

draws breath through her teeth with a hiss. Eyes open. Her

fingers rake his back.

He SCREAMS.

Horribly. Eyes bulging. Tendons standing out of his throat.

Watts jumps violently underneath him.

He begins to convulse. She rolls him onto the bed beside her,

trying to contain his spasms. His teeth grind.

A horrible CRACK. In the middle of Holloway's chest, beneath

the sternum, a grotesque head pushes out through the skin. A

PARASITE. Blood fountains from the ruinous wound.

Holloway goes into a massive seizure. Violently lashing out.

Watts stares at the parasite fighting its way out of his

body. It is white and boneless. Glistening. It flails its

hideous lunging jaw.

Watts screams and screams.

The parasite frees itself from its savage womb and turns on

Watts. She slaps at it blindly. It HISSES at her.

She squirms away across the floor, tangled in the bloody

sheet. The thing comes after her.

CORRIDOR - TRACKING SHOT

Watts's screams echo through the Magellan. Stillwell runs

down the hallway, searching for the source.

The parasite chases Watts across the floor. She leaps into

the clothes-locker and slams the steel door.

The parasite flattens itself. Slick as an octopus, it begins

to slide under the locker door. Watts shrieks in horror.

Stillwell bursts into the cabin, Janek right behind him.

Quick as a cat, the parasite darts to a floor vent and

slithers bonelessly between the bars.

Watts bursts out of the locker, naked and bloodied. Rushes to

Holloway where he lies on the gory mattress, a horrific hole

in his chest. He is beyond all help.

Janek and Stillwell struggle to take in what they're seeing.

Stillwell pulls Holloway's jacket off a chair. Wraps it

around Watts. Pulls her gently away from the bed.

She looks at him, uncomprehending. Shock setting in.

Watts sits at a steel table, deep in shock. She wears an

oversized crew coverall: her skin still streaked with dried

blood under the fabric.

A knot of crewmen around her. Janek, Stillwell, Brick, Glasse

and Downs. Janek looks at Glasse.

INT. CATACOMBS - DARKNESS

A horrible sound of breathing, ragged and wet.

In a corner, lit by a green glow from seams in the floor -

A FIGURE IN A WHITE SPACE SUIT lies writhing weakly.

The insignia on the suit's chestplate reads FIFIELD. The

suit's helmet is shattered. Inside the helmet, Fifield's head

is a horror: a gelatinous mass, skin reduced to putty.

The softened bones of his skull change shape as we watch.

Elongating. Fifield mews in pain.

INT. MAGELLAN - CAPTAIN'S WARDROOM

Janek keys open the arms locker in his wardroom. Unlocks

automatic pistols from their rack one by one, and hands them

to Stillwell and Kamarov.

Holloway's body lies frozen in his hypersleep freezer, blue

with frost. The horrific wound yawning in his chest.

Watts enters. Cleaned up. She opens the freezer. Her hand

caresses Holloway's cold cheek tenderly. Slides over his

collarbone - lies flat on his chest above his awful wound.

Glasse enters. Reacts in dismay. Tries to pull her back.

She turns on him fiercely.

INT. MESS ROOM - DAWN

The entire complement of the ship gathers for an emergency

meeting. Janek at the head of the hall. Glasse, Downs, Brick,

Stillwell, and Kamarov seated with pistols on their hips.

To one side: Vickers with Captain Shepherd and Vigoda.

Watts enters. They all stare at her, knowing what she's been

through. With averted eyes she crosses the room. Sits alone.

Silence. They all turn to look at her.

A murmur among the men as the implications of that sink in.

Even Vickers is disconcerted.

She joins Janek at the head of the room. Shepherd and Vigoda

flank her, rifles slung. The soldiers scan the room, meeting

each man's eyes. The quiet threat is unmistakable.

As the argument picks up heat, Watts slips out of the room.

Watts, in a space suit, no helmet, opens Holloway's locker.

She pulls out the space suit he wore on the last day of his

life. HOLLOWAY stenciled on the chest. Her fingers linger in

its folds as if she could soak up some last trace of him.

She pulls the tracking chip from the chestplate of his suit.

Plugs the chip into a map unit. The holographic map lights

up. The legend in the corner reads MARTIN HOLLOWAY.

A wandering path shows Holloway's final exploration. Markers

on the map denote his photographs, field notes and scans.

Watts touches a marker. One of Holloway's field notes plays:

A hunting party convenes: Card and Vigoda in combat coveralls

with submachine guns; Downs, Kamarov and Stillwell wearing

tool belts and pistols.

The soldiers carry map units, squinting at the plan of the

unfamiliar ship: decks upon decks.

Vigoda grins wryly. Card glowers. They switch corridors.

INT. PYRAMID WORKSITE

Ravel and Chance toil away at their dissection of the

terraforming pyramid. Ray stands sentry.

DAVID is nowhere to be seen.

Watts rolls up in a rover and gets out. Heads for the ramp to

the catacombs below. Ravel and Chance watch her pass without

comment and return to their work.

INT. MAGELLAN - SERVICE DECK - DAY

Kamarov and Vigoda, standing in front of an open vent, are in

a full-fledged argument.

Vigoda grins.

INT. PYRAMID - RAMP

Watts descends alone into the lower passages below the

pyramid. A tiny figure in the vast darkness.

She holds her map unit as a pilgrim holds a bible: a guide in

the darkness. Holloway's name and course in shining symbols.

She follows his path into the unknown.

INT. MAGELLAN - MAINTENANCE BAY - DAY

Kamarov carries a stepladder into a utilitarian steel

compartment. Drops the ladder under an air vent and steps up.

He pulls a powered wrench from his belt. With the wrench

cocked like a hammer, he eases up and peers cautiously

through the vent with a flashlight. Nothing to see.

He snorts. Removes the vent cover. Feels around inside.

He gasps in shock. Pulls out an atmosphere sensor that's been

bitten in half. He takes his comm handset off his belt.

He hangs the handset on his belt. Takes one last look into

the vent. Squints curiously. Reaches deep inside.

A hiss inside the vent. Kamarov whips his flashlight up,

peering inside. Snatches his arm back -

- but something snatches him faster.

An unseen force drags Kamarov's right arm into the vent with

hideous strength. He cries out in pain.

He drops his light. Tries to reach his pistol with his left

hand. It's on his right hip. He can't reach across.

He braces his head against the vent's edge. Clenches his

teeth and strains.

A horrific YANK drags his head and arm together into the

vent. They barely fit: he loses some skin on the way in. His

feet come off the stepladder. He struggles on tip-toe.

Horrific force collapses Kamarov's shoulder. Bones crack. The

thing in the vent drags him through that hole he doesn't fit

through. By the time his ribs are in he stops screaming.

His body disappears into the hole. Hips, legs, boots.

Janek stands staring out at the barren moon. The Bridge

ENGINEERING DECK - ATMOSPHERE PLANT

The Magellan's life support center. A deep rumble of

ventilation fans.

Janek and stands beside Brick, Glasse, Downs and Stillwell.

Shepherd and Vigoda look on from the doorway.

In front of them, an eight-inch metal duct has been cut open.

Kamarov is stuffed inside, dead and broken: limbs folded,

drenched in blood. A human plug in a pipe.

INT. CATACOMBS

Watts moves through the darkness with her map unit. Her

headlamp sweeping nervously.

A CLATTER behind her makes her spin: but it's only a

spherical mapping probe, bumbling through the dark.

She walks on -

The voice transfixes her where she stands, a look of holy

dread on her face. Shivering, she prowls toward the sound.

Watts enters a new chamber, looking around in astonishment.

The domed ceiling is honeycombed with cells like a beehive.

Grotesque molluscoid organisms are secreted in them - their

vile orifices cinched tightly shut.

Watts stumbles on something: looking down, she sees a helmet.

Picks it up. The stenciled label reads HOLLOWAY. The clear

visor has been melted through by a powerful acid.

She looks up: a tracheal airshaft curves up into the dark.

An electric CRACKLE. A flare of blue light makes Watts leap

back against the wall.

Holloway falls out of overhead shaft and crashes to the

floor. He lies in pain, barely conscious. Blue and luminous,

a holographic ghost.

Watts stares, paralyzed. The ghost gasps out a word:

Holloway's headlamp shines on the molluscoid right overhead:

the beam awakens the organism. Its sphincter mouth dilates.

A soft white octopoid FACEHUGGER descends on a quivering rope

of mucus. Sprawls slitheringly over his clear visor.

Acid HISSES. Smoke rises from the glass.

The vision vanishes in a sizzle of static. Watts huddles

against the wall, gasping.

In the beam of her flashlight, the FACEHUGGER lies dead, legs

curled in.

She looks up. Sees the open molluscoid above where Holloway

lay. The other molluscoids not yet opened in their cells.

Terror. She steals out of the chamber.

Watts emerges into a hallway. Leans against the wall, wide-

eyed. Panting with the horror of what she's seen.

She glances left and right. Jumpy now.

All is silent. She lifts the map unit. A trace leads off into

the dark. If Holloway's course before was direct and clear,

now it is a meandering thread. A drunkard's walk.

INT. MAGELLAN - CORRIDOR

Janek pulls his communicator from his belt as he strides

along. Punches a control.

His voice reverberates over the ship's public address system.

Vickers pursues him down the corridor, shouting.

Janek strides onto the Bridge, Vickers a terrier on his

heels. But something in the faces of his men stops him cold.

Glasse and Brick look stricken.

In disbelief, Janek strides to his Captain's chair. Taps

controls. What he sees takes the wind out of him. He stares

at Vickers in outrage and violation.

Vickers is legitimately shocked. She shakes her head.

INT. CATACOMBS - UNDERGROUND HANGAR

A circular chamber of stunning size - a thousand feet across.

Its lofty ceiling flat and segmented, designed to open. Watts

follows her map into the space in awe.

Dominating the hangar is a ship: the vast horseshoe-shaped

vessel familiar from the original film. We will come to know

it as the JUGGERNAUT. It's at rest on its landing gear.

Skeletal gangways slanting up to its three massive doors.

Watts glances at her map: Holloway's holographic trace leads

right up the gangway into the ship. She goes.

Watts passes through a circular space with a high domed

ceiling. A green glow emanates from grooves in the floor.

In the center of the chamber: a PILOT'S CHAIR.

A mechanical throne built to giant scale. Its seat segmented

like an armadillo's back. Tubes and conduits poised and

waiting for some connection. The chair is empty.

Above the chair, a massive telescope-like apparatus juts into

the air, its function unknowable.

An extraordinary facility.

A console, nearly five feet high and broad as a dance floor,

dominates the room.

Four immense coffin-like cockpits are built into the console.

In each of these a NAVIGATOR - an Engineer - lies long dead.

But the real spectacle is overhead. The ORRERY:

The barrel-vaulted ceiling is traced with circular arches of

some exotic alloy, as if to trace celestial courses.

The air above the console is filled with spheres of light.

They are nearly still: but close study reveals them all to be

in motion, drifting with the movements of the cosmos.

Watts stares at the Orrery in amazement. Somewhere among

those heavenly spheres is Earth. Somewhere perhaps the

homeworld of the Engineers themselves.

A bizarre sound: a section of blank wall suddenly unravels

itself, becoming an open door. DAVID walks in, his hand

raised in command. He clearly caused the door to open.

Watts points at the door DAVID just opened.

A flicker of disappointment in the android's face. Contempt.

He gestures in the air: the spheres reconfigure themselves at

his command, swarming and zooming.

Watts stares at DAVID, conflicted: her desire for information

warring with the agenda that brought her here.

Watts stares at him, realization growing in her eyes. DAVID

is off the reservation.

She's got his attention now. DAVID goes rigid.

DAVID looks at her with something like contempt.

There's an edge in his voice that scares her.

Watts loses her nerve. She heads for the door.

The door begins to knit itself closed in front of her.

Watts gasps in shock - at the malice in DAVID's voice as much

as the closing door. She dives out. Just in time.

Watts runs.

Behind her, the door bursts open again. With superhuman

speed, DAVID comes after her. He runs like a demon, his legs

steel pistons. Caroming off of walls.

He closes the distance in seconds. Slaps Watts against the

wall, shattering her helmet's visor. She falls, dazed.

INT. JUGGERNAUT - EGG CHAMBER

Watts awakens. Her helmet is gone.

DAVID is dragging her across the floor - into a huge cargo

hold full of Alien eggs. The wide trench holding hundreds of

eggs under a membrane of light: an evolution of the

molluscoids Watts saw before. Armored, hardened, darker.

He hauls her upright to let her look across the huge space.

His grip looks casual but it might as well be iron manacles.

He drags Watts down into the trench. Breaking the membrane of

light. Grips her against his chest like a doll with one arm.

Watts struggles to free herself. DAVID's arm is inescapable.

DAVID caresses an Alien egg. It opens under his touch -

fleshy petals folding wetly back.

Watts twists frantically in his grip. Wild-eyed.

A facehugger emerges from the egg, its grotesque fingers

clawing at the air. This is not the boneless squid that

attacked Holloway; this is a pale skeletal hand, armored.

DAVID strokes it curiously: the thing ignores his touch.

Climbs Watts's body.

The facehugger scuttles toward her face. Watts shrieks.

DAVID grabs it nonchalantly by the tail. Dangles it in front

of their faces, studying it.

Watts shudders, staring at the thing. For a moment the

grander horror eclipses her own peril.

He regards Watts with something almost like pity.

He lets the facehugger go.

Watts twists her face away as the long fingers close around

her head. Clenches her teeth against the vile proboscis

thrusting at her mouth. Her heels hammer the deck.

The scaly tail throttles her. Her mouth opens. The proboscis

plunges home. The facehugger seats itself.

Watts collapses in DAVID's arms, a faceless rag doll. Her

blasphemous passenger secure in its place.

INT. MAGELLAN - ENGINEERING DECK - BILGE

The lowest deck, just above the gravity generators.

Condensate has accumulated: six inches of filthy water.

Card and Vigoda prowl through the darkness, rifles ready.

A wet splatter behind them: they spin. But it's only a

trickle of condensate from a drainpipe.

They move on.

Behind them, from an eight-inch diameter pipe, a WHITE MASS

oozes, almost gelatinous. Silently as a liquid it pours

itself into the stagnant water - and stands up.

It is a humanoid demon, spindly limbs and bony back. Boneless

and flexible and monstrously strong. A threshing eel's tail.

Its blunt head dolphin-like and elongated.

It opens its mouth. A pair of bony jaws jut out impossibly

far, hungry and demonic.

The Alien strikes. Card is gutted in an instant, torn up like

a paper doll. He screams hideously and drops. The Alien,

whiplash fast, shoots away into the darkness.

Stillwell and Downs dash in with pistols and lights.

Vigoda, panicking, fires a wild burst. Stillwell ducks.

Beside him, Downs arches backward into the foul water. Dead.

For one moment Downs's flashlight beam illuminates the Alien.

A nightmare image, a translucent white goblin. Backlit, it

shows the strange shape of a human face inside its fleshy

skull. A mockery of Holloway.

And then it's gone.

Vickers sits at her holography station. She's watching the

video feed of Stillwell's headset: Horrific images of Downs.

Radio chatter between Stillwell and Brick is faintly audible.

Vickers switches off the machine and rises nervously. Strides

to her communications console.

She gives up. Pacing. Hands shaking violently.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DAY

Janek paces on the foredeck, restless. Glasse monitors a

control station. Janek's comm signal chimes.

He pounds on his console.

INT. JUGGERNAUT - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE NAVIGATION CHAMBER

Watts shocks awake. Gasping.

She lies in dim green light on the corrugated black deck of

the Juggernaut. A corridor. Not far away, the doorway DAVID

opened to the Navigation Chamber.

A spasm of disgust crosses her face. She gags and spits: a

viscous fluid drips from her mouth in strings.

A dead facehugger lies belly-up beside her. The implications

slam home. Her face fills with horror.

She rises, shakily. Looks at the facehugger. Feels the neck

ring of her vacuum suit. Looks around. No sign of her helmet.

There's no sign of DAVID. Silently she steals away.

Ravel and Chance toil away at the terraforming engine.

Ray stands guard wearily: bored, he watches Ravel and Chance

working more than he watches the shadows.

Watts emerges from the rampway to the catacombs. Bare-headed

and sweaty she steals through the darkness to her rover.

Slips into the cab and activates the air reserves. The doors

seal; air cycles.

Ray turns in surprise as the rover speeds off.

EXT. DARK CITY - TUNDRA FIELD - PRE-DAWN

The windows of the Magellan shine in the distance. The

mottled ground-cover of lichens glows eerily in the dark.

A lone cargo rover speeds across the central crater and down

the canal leading to the ship.

EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK LIFT - PRE-DAWN

Bare-headed inside the rover's cab, Watts drives onto the

cargo lift. Watches in relief as the lift doors close. The

lift cycles air as it rises.

INT. MAGELLAN - EXCURSION CHAMBER - DAY

Watts peels off her vacuum suit. The thin clothes underneath

are drenched with sweat. She lifts her shirt. Looks at her

belly: flat and unmarked, for the moment.

Brick enters carrying a brace of air tanks, a pistol on his

hip, and startles violently.

Watts rushes past him without answering.

Watts sprints down a steel corridor. A pang of pain in her

stomach sends her staggering against the wall.

VICKERS'S CABIN DOOR

Watts sticks her head around the corner. Shepherd stands post

outside Vickers's cabin, rifle in his hands. She curses

silently and ducks back.

A sound makes her look again. Vickers steps out of her cabin

into the corridor. Shepherd escorts her toward the Bridge.

Watts waits for them to disappear. Dashes for the cabin door.

INT. VICKERS'S SUITE - CONTINUOUS

Watts slips inside and locks the door behind her. Turns,

holding her stomach. Moves across the suite to the Med Pod.

She thumbs the machine out of stand-by mode. Its screen fills

with menu items. Bewildering. Watts finds and touches a red

button labeled EMERGENCY.

A new, simpler list. Watts scans it frantically.

A spasm of agony curls her into a ball on the carpet. She

throttles her scream into a hiss of air.

Watts struggles up to her knees, drenched in sweat and

shaking. One hand clamped over her mouth, elbow tucked

against her ribs. With the other hand she taps options...

SURGERY ... EXPLORATORY ... ABDOMINAL ... PENETRATING INJURIES ... FOREIGN BODY ... INITIATE

The Med Pod opens with a hiss.

Watts strips off her clothes. Struggling with fastenings

under a new wave of pain. Her hands shaking.

She's barely keeping her feet. She clutches the frame of the

Med Pod in a death grip. It's happening.

Naked she staggers into the pod. Hits INITIATE.

The surgical apparatus swings into place. Scalpels, forceps,

scopes and suction tubes. A spraygun mists her torso with

yellow antiseptic.

The clear canopy descends over her.

Watts SCREAMS. A wail of indescribable agony.

An ARMORED PARASITE erupts from the deepening incision. Its

needle-toothed maw snarls through a fountain of blood.

Arterial blood sprays the inside of the canopy.

The parasite slithers out of her. Drops to the floor of the

pod: a pale serpent with a demon's skull. It has a hard brow,

a horny hide. Very different from the soft white worm that

Holloway gave birth to.

It drops to the floor, thrashing and hissing in fury at its

confinement.

Watts convulses. Her eyes roll back. In shock. Dying.

The parasite tears through the grille of the drain. Escapes

out into Vickers's cabin.

In the pod, scanning beams and sensors probe Watts's horrific

wound. A nightmare list scrolls across the pod's screen:

Manipulators plunge lines into her veins - recharging her

body with artificial blood. An oxygen tube slips down her

throat. An epidural into her spine.

Watts moans around her tracheal tube. Her eyes flutter open.

Through the blood-spattered glass, she sees the parasite

slither across Vickers's bed, tracking blood on the sheets.

As she slips into unconsciousness. Head lolling. Time passes.

Manipulators reach into her wound. Re-positioning organs.

Suturing ravaged flesh. A nozzle sprays antiseptic sealant.

Hours grind by in bloody labor.

Watts's eyes snap open.

Vigoda breaks into the cabin, a gun in his hand.

He scowls at the bloody track on the bed - and then freezes,

seeing Watts inside the Med Pod, a vivisected woman. The

autosurgeon hard at work.

The parasite crawls into view behind Vigoda. It has already

trebled in size. He does not see it before it leaps at him.

He dies in seconds. His throat ripped open. Lies staring at

nothing. His submachine gun lies beside him.

Watts's body jerks as manipulators tug and sew at her guts.

She stares at the dead man in a fog of horror.

The parasite's skin splits, spraying the carpet with acid.

Limbs erupt from its shoulders and haunches. Spines from its

back. Metamorphosis.

With a crack of carapace, its head swings down from its

serpentine position. It becomes a devil with an lethal,

elongated skull. An Alien.

The Alien turns its head. Looks at Watts inside the Med Pod.

Her breath catches. She passes out.

INT. MED POD - LATER

Watts wakes as the oxygen line withdraws from her mouth.

She looks down, bleary and hurting. Her star-shaped wound is

stitched closed with mechanically precise sutures.

The pod releases the restraints securing her arms and legs.

She takes a deep breath. Looks out - and freezes.

The lights in the suite outside have been damaged somehow.

They flicker and strobe.

Through the glass canopy - spattered with blood - Watts sees

a full-grown Alien crouching over Vigoda's body on the floor.

Staring in horror.

The pod sprays a liquid bandage over her scar. The

intravenous lines drop out of her arms.

Watts realizes the pod is about to release her.

Slowly she reaches out. With trembling fingers she grips the

canopy to hold it closed.

The Med Pod pulls the epidural needle out of her spine.

Sprays liquid bandage over the puncture. Watts closes her

eyes. Grits her teeth as her nerves wake up. Jangling pain.

She opens her eyes.

The Alien hunches over Vigoda's body, tearing at his flesh.

The ventilation hum inside the pod goes quiet. The canopy

pulls free of Watts's weakened grip. Swings quietly open.

Watts huddles in the open pod. Naked but for her bandages.

The Alien she gave birth to is ten feet away. Its spiny back

to her. Vigoda's gun lies on the floor outside the pod.

VICKERS'S SUITE - CONTINUOUS

Watts reaches out of the pod with exquisite slowness. Lays

her hand on the gun. Drags it a few inches closer.

The Alien turns its pale eyeless head. Watts freezes.

For a moment time stops.

The Alien lunges. Watts snatches up the gun and FIRES. Holds

the trigger down. The Alien jerks and staggers - an eye-

twisting sight in the strobing muzzle flashes - and falls.

Watts empties the clip into the thing. Acid gouts from its

wounds and eats into the deck - until a section of decking

gives way and falls to the deck below, leaving a dark hole.

Watts collapses on the rug, cradling her stomach in pain.

She crawls to Vigoda's desecrated body. With her eyes half-

averted from the sight, she searches the body. Finds a spare

ammo clip and jacks it into the gun.

Watts walks down the hallway in trousers and jacket. Leaning

on the wall, her face drawn with pain. One hand laid over the

fantastic scar on her abdomen. The gun slung on her shoulder.

Dark events have transformed the Magellan. The metal of the

walls is torn in some places; in others, blackened by fire.

Watts rounds a corner. Finds a workstation left in shambles:

lockers and chairs overturned. A pool of drying blood.

Wide smears of blood show where something man-sized was

dragged out of the puddle - across the floor - up the wall.

Into the darkness of an open vent.

Watts emerges from a lift, jacket pulled tight around her.

The emergency lights are on: dim blue bulbs throbbing.

She rounds the corner toward the Bridge.

Janek looks at Watts like she's a ghost.

She lets the jacket fall open to reveal her bandaged midriff.

Janek takes that in grimly.

The surviving complement of the Magellan are holed up on the

Bridge: Janek, Glasse, Stillwell, Vickers. The soldiers

Shepherd and Ray.

Watts stops cold when she sees Vickers. She crosses the

bridge in three long strides - cocks a fist and snaps the

older woman's head around with a hard right cross.

Vickers staggers backward, gasping.

Stillwell drags Watts away.

Vickers stiffens in shock. Stares fearfully at Watts.

Watts frees herself from Stillwell's grip. Her jacket falls

open, revealing her bandages. Stillwell gasps in horror.

Watts locks eyes with Vickers. Their hatred is thoroughly

mutual. A wordless truce. There's work to do.

A stunned silence as the others take that in.

Janek gestures to

The Magellan shudders. A RUMBLE.

EXT. CENTRAL CRATER

Fissures race across the plain beside the pyramid.

The soil and ground cover tears apart as a huge aperture

opens: a seven-bladed iris, its segments shedding the dust

and detritus of centuries.

A huge circular space yawns as the iris opens. The Juggernaut

is revealed in its underground hangar. A staggering sight.

Powerful landing lights inside the hangar illuminate with a

BOOM of closing circuits. The mighty ship suddenly

silhouetted from below.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS

The survivors on the Bridge stare out as colossal shafts of

light shoot into the stormy sky from behind the crater's

shield wall. The open hangar itself hidden from their view.

The men exchange looks. Nod. They're in. Even Vickers nods.

Watts looks incredulously at Shepherd and Ray, the soldier

who'd been guarding the worksite.

Watts gives Vickers a withering look and drops it.

Janek's hand goes to the pistol on his hip. He sets his jaw.

Glasse presents Watts with his handiwork: her old pair of

magnifying goggles, retrofitted with Engineer lenses.

The goggles sit on her forehead, lowering the lenses in front

of her eyes and raising them again at her bidding.

With the lenses lowered, Watts sees like an Engineer sees:

visible heat auras and electromagnetic field lines, elaborate

haloes around living things.

Glasse seals a nervous-looking Vickers into a vacuum suit.

Glasse, Watts, and Stillwell are already suited up.

Stillwell stands guard at the airlock door with his carbine.

Glasse goes to put Vickers's helmet on. She makes him wait.

EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK - DAY

The war party debarks in vacuum suits: Watts, Vickers,

Glasse, Stillwell. Shepherd and Ray.

All carry submachine guns - Vickers awkwardly.

They head down the trench on rovers.

INT. PYRAMID

The rovers roll through into the pyramid's cavernous entry

hall. Watts lowers her Engineer lenses inside her helmet -

The seemingly vacant space is alive with light. Engineer

script scrolls through the air. Interfaces of pure light

await an awakening touch.

EXT. JUGGERNAUT - GANGWAY

The vast alien ship broods, its hangar now open to the gray

sky overhead. In Watts's enhanced vision, the ship is

cocooned with complex energy fields.

The war party abandons its rover at the foot of the ramp and

moves inside, weapons ready.

INT. JUGGERNAUT - VESTIBULE - CONTINUOUS

They emerge from the airlock - and freeze in horror.

Lying on the deck in front of them are the blood-soaked

bodies of Ravel and Chance. Their arms and legs bound. Their

heads thrown back in agony. Their chests torn open from

within. A dead facehugger beside each body.

Janek plays his lights over the corpses, his face stony.

Fearfully they sweep their flashlights into every dark

corner. Nothing.

She points down a passageway. Through the Engineer lenses she

sees alien symbols gleaming. She leads them into the dark.

The war party moves down a corridor.

A HISS echoes through the passage. They freeze. Sweeping

their flashlight beams everywhere.

Ray looks up.

An Alien hangs above him, wedged between two vaults of the

ribbed ceiling. Half the size of a man; an adolescent.

It drops on him.

The bladed tail glances off his helmet, sparking. He jerks

his carbine up and fires a long burst as he rolls aside. The

Alien convulses, its exoskeleton shattered. Fatally wounded.

Acid sears into the deck. Echoes of the gunfire reverberate.

Vickers clings to Shepherd's arm, hyperventilating with fear.

Shepherd shakes her off.

The war party passes the empty pilot's seat.

Watts leads the war party to the Orrery. Momentarily even the

soldiers forget their wariness, staring in astonishment at

the myriad spheres of light.

But if they are impressed, Watts is thunderstruck.

She sees the Orrery in its full glory: a stunning panoply of

light and energy. Stars and planets pulsing with information.

Reluctantly Watts tears her eyes away. Leads the war party

through the second door - the door she saw DAVID open.

An immense mausoleum.

The war party enters stealthily, Watts in the lead.

An Engineer lies on his back on a complex mechanical table,

his body one with the machinery. Jacked in. Interpenetrated.

Fused with the slab of the table itself.

Unlike the other Engineer bodies the explorers have seen,

this giant is not withered or mummified. He's full-fleshed

and muscular. Sustained by the machinery he's fused with.

He is bare-headed - his face the face of an Adonis.

DAVID stands before this giant Sleeper. To the naked eye, he

seems to be conjuring with his hands in the empty air.

But Watts sees a dazzling console of runes and mandalas,

pulsing with biological rhythms.

The Sleeper lives.

Ray and Shepherd draw beads on DAVID.

DAVID glances calmly over his shoulder.

He turns back to the Sleeper.

DAVID makes conjuror's passes in the air.

Through her Engineer's lens Watts sees DAVID manipulating a

complex interface of light. The pulsing life-signs of the

Sleeper begin to change.

DAVID smiles.

DAVID smiles at Watts.

Vapor rises from the Sleeper's body.

The Sleeper wakes. Opens his eyes. Draws an endless breath.

Shunts and catheters withdraw from the Sleeper's flesh.

His body cleaves from the table. The machinery opens like a

grotesque biomechanical flower. Releases him.

The Sleeper rises from his ancient bed.

The humans back off, terrified. DAVID watches with shining

eyes.

The Sleeper towers over them. A giant carved from ivory. A

bulky girdle around his hips, seemingly one with his body.

He stares at DAVID and the others. Eyes like black agates.

The soldiers and crew stand warily, guns tracking from DAVID

to the Sleeper, uncertain of their ground. Watts is in awe.

The Sleeper speaks. A low rumbling sound. Unintelligible.

Vickers is beside herself with terror. She takes Shepherd's

arm. Pulls him silently away. Back into the Navigation Room.

Behind the Sleeper, a raised platform of dark machinery is

accessible by one of the Juggernaut's odd curving ramps. The

Sleeper ascends - and the ramps' odd design is explained. The

ramp comes alive, reaching up with a hundred mechanical arms

and lifting him aloft like a sea-god borne by the waves.

Atop the platform the Sleeper moves from one device to the

next. Each comes alive: he is a wizard in his own kingdom.

Watts sees haloes of light dancing in the air around him.

But what he learns from his machines does not comfort him. He

grows distraught. Keening to himself in near-subsonic tones.

DAVID steps forward.

Calls to the Sleeper in the tongue of the Engineers.

The Sleeper turns in astonishment. He looks down at DAVID and

answers in the same tongue. He is angry, accusing. He points

at DAVID, at the humans. Tones of accusation.

DAVID cajoles, soothes, pleads.

The Sleeper descends toward DAVID. DAVID spreads his arms in

welcome - undeniable emotion on his face. Joy.

The Sleeper lays his hands on DAVID's head as if blessing

him. DAVID is rapturous. The Sleeper speaks a single phrase -

A gout of white artificial blood. DAVID convulses. His

severed head emits a strangled sound of heartbreak. His body

staggers a few steps, hands groping over its dripping neck.

The Sleeper tosses the head away. Seizes the body by the legs

and swings it against the ground like a flail. Again. And

again. Horrific power and violence. DAVID's arms come off.

DAVID's head tumbles. Caroms off a wall not far from Watts's

hiding place.

Ray rises from behind a stanchion. Snaps his rifle to his

shoulder. Fires a burst into the Sleeper's shoulder.

She Sleeper roars - though the wounds are pinpricks to a

being of his size. With startling speed be moves to a

sarcophagus against the wall. Steps into it.

The sarcophagus comes alive around the Sleeper, outfitting

him with a FLIGHT SUIT: the same living suit we've seen

bonded to dead Engineers throughout the pyramid.

But this suit is not withered. Its glossy goggle eyes and

elephantine breathing tube are functional - bulky apparatuses

thickening the Sleeper's chest, back, hips and arms.

The Sleeper steps free of the sarcophagus - and Ray's next

burst of gunfire ricochets harmlessly off the Sleeper's

armored shoulders and head.

The Sleeper strides out of the chamber.

In the dark ribbed corridor, a second Alien crouches in the

dark. It drops into a hunting crouch as footsteps approach.

But a WHITE-GLOVED HAND seizes the Alien by the neck from

behind. The Alien gives a whistling hiss as its spine cracks

under a terrific force.

Rending sounds as the hard-shelled Alien is torn apart.

Watts rises out of hiding, scanning the room. DAVID ruined.

The Sleeper gone. Stillwell emerges from hiding. Ray. Glasse.

Shepherd escorts Vickers toward the exit of the Juggernaut.

Turning a corner, they freeze.

Ahead of them in their headlamps, a space-suited figure

crouches in the middle of the passageway. Doing something

with its hands: smoke rises from debris on the floor.

The figure turns.

The label stencilled on the space suit reads FIFIELD. But the

face is of no human shape. A hideous hybrid of the crewman

and a hard-shelled Alien, pale and horrific.

Its helmet has been shattered by the growth of its elongate

skull. Spines have burst through the suit from within, down

the crewman's spine. Clawed fingers piercing his gloves.

Shepherd and Vickers scream. Shepherd's rifle comes up. But

Fifield leaps with inhuman agility, upward into the darkness.

Shepherd backs away, headlamp and rifle questing upward.

Fifield comes out of the darkness behind him. Claws tearing

deep. Shepherd screams and falls, mortally wounded.

Vickers runs. Pounding through the dark in blind terror.

Fifield comes out of the shadows and hammers her to the deck.

She rolls over, gibbering and begging. The Fifield-thing

leans close to her faceplate. Its voice is a travesty.

A ROAR of gunfire. The dying Shepherd empties his clip into

Fifield from forty feet away.

Acid sluices over Vickers as Fifield collapses on top of her.

She dies horribly, caustic liquid eating through space suit,

flesh and bone.

Watts goes to DAVID's head. She bends over him - and startles

when his eyes snap open. His voice is an electronic buzz:

An electric spasm convulses his face.

Another spasm convulses him. His face stiffens. Dying.

Watts's eyes widen in horror.

She slaps his inert cheek. DAVID's eyes flicker and fade.

He dies.

Watts looks up at the others. Breathing hard.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

Janek works frantically as the nightly storm rolls in.

Suddenly consoles come alive. The Nav Computer comes back up -

but Janek has taken half the instruments apart.

Janek scrambles to restore the components he's removed.

The war party pursues the Sleeper - Ray in the lead now,

Watts right behind him - DAVID's inert head under her arm.

Glasse and Stillwell bring up the rear.

The Orrery is transformed - no longer a neutral star map, but

a flight plan laid in from LV-426 to Earth.

The Sleeper stands at the far end of the room, hands

gesturing. In Watts's enhanced sight, it's a vision of glory:

waves of energy dancing under the Sleeper's touch. Rivers of

information flowing. He finishes his work as they enter.

Ray draws a bead on him just as he strides out of the room.

He dogtrots forward, gun raised. The others keep pace,

deferring instinctively to the soldier's confidence.

They emerge into the corridor: empty. A moment of confusion.

They move toward the Pilot Chamber - and find it empty too.

The seat vacant. The door standing open.

As they stare inside, baffled, the wall across the corridor -

directly behind them - silently unravels. The Sleeper is

revealed, a towering gargoyle in his flight suit.

He steps forth. Obscure devices clutched in his fists.

Too late they perceive him. They spin. Raise their guns.

Vanity and foolishness. This is the wrath of an angry god.

It seems time slows down.

The air roars in their ears. Their guns snap and bark

impotently. And then the Sleeper strikes.

The missiles he hurls at them are almost invisible. Neither

solid projectiles nor directed energy; more like knots tied

in the fabric of space itself.

The first missile crushes Ray like an invisible fist. The

second splashes Glasse against the wall like an insect.

Reflexively Stillwell reaches out for Watts. Wraps himself

around her protectively. The blow lands an instant later.

Stillwell and Watts are hammered against the bulkhead by a

staggering impact. Watts is dazed: Stillwell killed.

Woozy, she sees the Sleeper step into the Pilot Chamber.

The door begins to close.

Watts sees that DAVID's head lies just inside the door. She

scrambles for it. Too late. The door knits itself into a

featureless wall before her reaching hand.

Watts is alone.

The Sleeper settles into the pilot's chair: it fuses with

him, coming alive. A vast display wraps around the walls -

revealing the hangar outside, the stars, the horizon.

A mystic view that renders solid matter translucent, painting

the fabric of reality in raw information.

PILOT CHAMBER DOOR

Watts pounds in futile rage against the door.

The Juggernaut shudders as its systems power up.

EXT. JUGGERNAUT - DUSK

The floor of the underground hangar begins to rise. The

landing lights brighten, shining like a beacon into the sky.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

On the bridge of the Magellan, Janek stares out. In the

distance the Juggernaut rises out of the ground to eclipse

the central pyramid.

Janek squints, trying to understand what he's seeing

A light races toward the Magellan down the canal: a rover.

EXT. CANAL - DUSK

Watts steers the rover recklessly, hands locked on the

controls. Rifle slung over her shoulder.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

Janek watches the rover come - and the Holloway Alien -

boneless and white - unfolds itself from the instruments over

his head.

Its goblin-shark jaw juts out. Sinks its horrific teeth into

Janek's right shoulder.

Janek howls in agony. His right arm is paralyzed by the bite.

He gropes at the pistol on his right hip with his left hand.

The Alien shakes him like a terrier killing a rat.

Janek gets the pistol. Flips it in his hand. Fires over his

shoulder. Two, three rounds...

The bullets punch easily into the Alien - but the soft flesh

closes easily over the wounds, sealing its white skin. Its

teeth tighten.

Watts comes out of nowhere in her space suit. Swings a heavy

rifle like a bat with all her strength. A crushing impact

wrenches the Alien's jaws loose. It recoils.

Watts reverses the rifle. Pulls the trigger. A fusillade of

bullets shreds the Alien's head. It collapses, dead.

Watts wrenches her helmet off. Rips a first-aid kit from the

bulkhead and helps Janek to stanch the bleeding of his

horrific wound. She gets the bleeding stopped. Wraps him in

bandages.

Janek will live - but his right arm is useless.

He looks at the body of the dead Alien, which is sinking into

the deck plates as acid eats away at the metal.

Janek blinks at her. Uncomprehending.

Janek stares out the Bridge window at the hulking Juggernaut

in its column of light.

The nightfall storm front is rolling in, a tidal wave of

darkness on the horizon. A swelling rumble.

Janek stares at her. Makes his decision. Struggles to stand.

He shakes his head. No. Watts helps him across the Bridge.

Props him up in the Captain's seat.

Watts nods grimly. Desperate.

He reaches out with his left hand. Flips switches. The ship

shudders, awakening.

EXT. MAGELLAN - DUSK

The prospecting ship raises its lifts and anchors. Lifts off

on landing rockets, retracting its landing struts.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK

Janek grips the stabilizers with his left hand.

Watts sends the Magellan careening toward the Juggernaut -

just as the Juggernaut begins to float off the ground.

EXT. MAGELLAN (IN FLIGHT) - DUSK

The Magellan barrels toward the Juggernaut, skimming the

ground, as the storm wall sweeps closer.

INT. JUGGERNAUT - PILOT CHAMBER

In the Juggernaut's pilot chair, the Sleeper sees them

coming. His thoughts quicken. An explosion of light.

EXT. JUGGERNAUT (IN FLIGHT) - DUSK

The Juggernaut leaps into the sky.

The Magellan roars through the cyclone of dust in its wake.

Barely avoids the pyramid. Rakes around in a screaming turn

and climbs in pursuit, engines howling.

INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE

Janek and Watts strain at the controls together.

The Magellan rolls into a howling climb. The storm catches up

to them: wind and dust reducing visibility to zero. Darkness.

The Magellan's radar finds the Juggernaut. Paints it with

targeting data on the Bridge window...

But the Juggernaut climbs too fast. Dwindling.

INT. JUGGERNAUT - PILOT CHAMBER

On the floor, DAVID's eyes open. With his jaw he hitches his

severed head around. Gets his eyes on the Sleeper.

In the pilot chair, the Sleeper convulses.

An ALIEN erupts from his chest. Big as a wolf even at its

birth. Dark gray, armored, lethal. More hideous than any

chestburster we've seen. An ULTRAMORPH. It wails hideously.

The Sleeper dies. The Alien slithers free.

EXT. JUGGERNAUT (IN FLIGHT) - ABOVE THE STORM

The Juggernaut emerges from the stormclouds into the clear

upper air - but loses momentum. Staggers through the upper

atmosphere, control lost.

INT. MAGELLAN (IN FLIGHT) - BRIDGE

Watts, at the Magellan's controls, stares as he Juggernaut

falters and falls.

A crackle on the ship's comm.

She seizes the precious moment: centers the Juggernaut in the

Bridge window. Slams the throttle forward.

EXT. JUGGERNAUT (IN FLIGHT) - ABOVE THE STORM

The Magellan hurtles out of the storm.

RAMS THE JUGGERNAUT.

A colossal impact. The Juggernaut tumbles from the sky like a

stone - intact but crippled.

The MAGELLAN BREAKS APART -

The ship's modules scatter. Some whole, others broken. They

fall back into the storm. The Command Module - including the

Bridge - falls intact.

The engine sections rocket away across the chaotic sky.

INT. COMMAND MODULE

Janek is strapped into his seat. Watts goes flying. The

Bridge window shatters, spraying glass spears in a lethal

barrage across the Bridge.

Watts picks herself up. Finds the Module in free fall.

Alarms wail. Lights flash. Escape pods pop open.

Watts looks at Janek. He is dead in his seat, impaled by a

lethal fragment of glass.

The storm wall - a chain of hurricanes - rages below them.

The command module tumbles back into the winds.

Watts dives into a coffin-sized ESCAPE POD.

She PUNCHES OUT.

EXT. COMMAND MODULE (IN FREE FALL) - DUSK

Watts's pod - a steel coffin - shoots away on jets through

the gale.

The command module plunges through the storm, tumbling.

SMASHES AGAINST THE GROUND in ruin.

The engine pods hurtle to the ground and go nuclear, sending

walls of fire twisting through the hurricane.

The shockwaves tumble Watts's escape pod through the air.

EXT. LV-426 - MAGELLAN CRASH SITE - DUSK

The pod lands, cushioned by a drag chute and retro rockets.

Watts pops the pod open, rising painfully to her feet in the

storm. She surveys the destruction in disbelief.

A deep RUMBLE makes her turn.

The JUGGERNAUT ROLLS TOWARD HER - on edge -

A crushing wheel of death, big as a mountain.

She runs. Like a child in a nightmare.

The Juggernaut bears down on her.

She turns aside, trying to get out of its course. Even at a

dead sprint she barely seems to move, it's so big...

The Juggernaut wobbles toward her. Slowing.

Exhausted, Watts collapses, gasping. The Juggernaut rolls to

the earth, settling like a hoop right around her, Watts in

the center.

The winds carry the dust clouds away.

Watts passes out, dropping her head to the Earth.

Watts is awakened by a beeping alarm. She looks at her wrist.

Her suit flashes an oxygen warning: 20 MINUTES REMAINING.

She looks up.

The Juggernaut's doors are wide open in front of her.

The ULTRAMORPH ALIEN emerges from the Juggernaut. As large as

a man already.

It sees her.

With a sob of terror she pulls herself to her feet and runs.

EXT. MAGELLAN CRASH SITE - DUSK

Watts flees through the storm, across the burning debris

field. A wilderness of lightning, fire, and twisted metal. A

thunderstorm with dust instead of rain.

She looks back through the darkness.

In a strobe-light flicker of lightning, she sees a gray demon

approaching through the wreckage.

She scrambles through a section of ductwork...under a hull

fragment...running and clambering...

The Alien hunts her, cat-and-mouse, among the fragments of

the Magellan: corridors that go nowhere, shattered

compartments. Jetsam.

Her eyes sweep frantically through the stormy night:

searching for a weapon. A hiding place. An answer.

She stumbles into the remains of the Magellan's laboratory.

A hypersleep freezer lies on the barren ground. Watts climbs

inside. Pulls the lid shut.

The Alien passes by, inches away. She watches it through the

plexiglass, holding her breath.

The Alien roots in the wreckage. Finds the rotting Engineer's

head among the shards of its vat. It begins to feed on the

head - GROWING as she watches.

Her suit's oxygen alarm goes off again. 15 MINUTES REMAINING.

The beeping draws the Alien away from its dead meat.

Watts is paralyzed.

The Alien noses closer. Sniffs at the plexiglass case. With

sudden, horrific violence, it lashes out. Sends the freezer

flying. Watts tumbles out. Lurches to her feet and runs.

The Alien follows. Ravening. She leads it a twisting chase

through fragments of burning metal.

Watts trips and falls hard. Picking herself up, she sees

she's tripped over a HULL SAW - the same diamond-bladed tool

DAVID used to dismantle the terraforming engine.

She seizes the saw - straining to manage its weight. Hides in

the hollow of a massive girder.

The Alien passes by. Scenting the air. She freezes. Her arms

trembling with the weight of the saw. Waiting for it to pass.

Almost it leaves. But a tiny rattle of metal from the

quivering saw brings it back.

Out of options, Watts powers up the saw. The blade whines up

to speed. They lunge at one another in the same moment.

The diamond blade shears off one of the Alien's claws.

The monster screams and recoils.

Its lashing tail sends Watts sprawling. She loses the saw.

The Alien comes after her, slinking low to the ground,

injured arm tucked to its chest. All vengeful fury.

Watts scrambles for the saw. The Alien leaps for her. She

rolls aside - and like a scorpion the Alien impales her thigh

with its spear-tipped tail. Nails her to the ground.

Watts screams in agony. Reaches for the saw, still buzzing on

the ground. Its grip tantalizing inches from her fingertips.

The Alien stoops over her, slavering face inches from her

faceplate. Its hideous jaws open.

With all her strength, Watts pulls against the spike in her

leg. Drags the point of the spear through the dirt.

Excruciating pain. She snarls through her teeth.

The Alien strikes - just as Watts GRABS the saw.

She meets the Alien's head with the buzzing blade.

IMPALES THE ALIEN'S SKULL.

A gout of green acid onto Watts's helmet.

The Alien falls aside, thrashing its death-throes, the saw

still growling.

Watts sees ACID COMING THROUGH HER HELMET - fast.

With frantic haste she unlatches her helmet. Wrenches it off

as it crumples and melts.

She stands bare-headed in the toxic air. Desperate, she looks

around with tearing eyes.

In the distance she sees an intact module of the Magellan.

She runs for it. Slaps the door switch. Incredibly, it opens.

INT. VICKERS MODULE

Watts steps inside. The airlock closes behind her.

She finds herself staring at a grand piano. She's in

Vickers's suite. Its amenities intact, through the floor's a

few degrees off level. She takes a breath. Good air.

She walks around. Turning things on. Lights. Music. Surreal

comforts. She drinks water from the tap.

She opens the door to Vickers's secret room. Military space

suits. Rifles. Ammunition.

A crackle from the room's intercom.

INT. JUGGERNAUT - PILOT CHAMBER

DAVID's head lies battered in a dark corner of the wrecked

Juggernaut. Eyes staring into the shadows.

INT. VICKERS MODULE

Watts strips off her space suit wearily. Sits on the bed.

Watts shakes her head wearily.

Watts walks to the intercom and switches it off.

EXT. MAGELLAN CRASH SITE - DAY

The storm has passed. The fragments of the Magellan no longer

burn. The gray world of LV-426 restored.

The wreck of the Juggernaut looms in the misty distance.

Watts walks through the wreckage in a military space suit.

Rifle on her shoulder. Pistol on her hip.

She pulls a cargo dolly loaded with salvage.

EXT. VICKERS MODULE - DAY

Watts arrives at the Vickers module. The ultramorph Alien's

head has been fixed like a grisly trophy above the door.

INT. VICKERS'S SUITE (SHIPWRECK) - DAY

Watts strips off her space suit. She helps herself to a glass

of vodka from the bar.

A chessboard sits atop the grand piano: a game in progress.

Watts nods. Makes the move on the board. Says nothing.

Watts falls silent. She stares unhappily at the chessboard.

EXT. CENTRAL CRATER - NIGHT

The massive central pyramid rises in the midst of the

Engineer complex.

With a BOOM, a bright beam of light shines forth from its

peak, punching straight up through the clouds like a laser.

VARIOUS PYRAMIDS - AROUND LV-426

Other beams of light erupt from other pyramids. Scorching the

sky with their brightness.

EXT. LV-426 ORBIT

The barren moon hangs in space, its father planet an angry

red god in the background.

Two dozen beams of light rise from the moon, visible even

from space. A beacon. A signal.

A beginning.

