FADE IN:

INT. JEFFERIES' APARTMENT - DAY - LONG SHOT

Although we do not see the foreground window frame, we see

the whole background of a Greenwich Village street.

We can see the rear of a number of assorted houses and small

apartment buildings whose fronts face on the next cross-town

street, sharply etched by the morning sun.

Some are two stories high; others three; some have peaked

roofs, others are flat. There is a mixture of brick and wood

and wrought iron in the construction.

The apartment buildings have fire escapes, the others do

not.

The neighborhood is not a prosperous one, but neither is it

poor. It is a practical, conventional dwelling place for

people living on marginal incomes, luck -- or hope and careful

planning.

The summer air is motionless and heavy with humid heat.

It has opened windows wide, pushed back curtains, lifted

blinds and generally brought the neighborhood life into a

sweltering intimacy. Yet, people born and bred to life within

earshot and eye glance of a score of neighbors have learned

to preserve their own private worlds by uniformly ignoring

each other, except on direct invitation.

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK until a large sleeping profile of a

man fills the screen. It is so large that we do not see any

features, but merely the temple and side of the cheek down

which a stream of sweat is running.

THE CAMERA PANS OFF this to the right hand side of the window,

and MOVES TO a thermometer which is hanging on the wall just

outside the window. It registers 84.

THE CAMERA MOVES ON into the open, and brings nearer to us a

room with a large studio window. We are able to see inside

this room. A short, balding man is standing near the window,

shaving, using a small bowl of water and a portable mirror

which he has set up on a shelf.

To the right of him is a battered upright piano. On top of

the piano is a radio. The music selection coming from the

radio stops, and the announcer is heard.

The man shaving quickly puts down his razor, hurries to the

radio, and changes the station, moving past a number of

commercial voices until he again finds some music.

Contented, he returns to his shaving.

THE CAMERA MOVES ON AND OVER to a far building. It passes

over the face of this building until it comes to fire escapes.

It goes up and near enough to one which has become the outdoor

bedroom of a couple. We are near enough to see an alarm clock

hanging from the rail which is now ringing vigorously. A man

rises lazily to a sitting position. He gropes to switch the

alarm off.

We see that his pajamas are stained with sweat. In his sitting

position he leans forward and shakes somebody beside him. To

our surprise, the head of this other person -- a woman --

rises where his feet are. They have been sleeping in opposite

directions. They sit limply looking at each other with

bedraggled and weary expressions which show they enjoyed

very little sleep in the heat of the night.

THE CAMERA NOW MOVES DOWN toward the left onto another low

building. It MOVES IN A LITTLE to a living room window. Just

inside the windowsill, a small fan is oscillating. The fan

sits on the right side of the table, and to the left of it

is an automatic toaster.

Behind the toaster stands a full-bodied young woman,

apparently wearing only a pair of black panties. Her stomach,

navel, and the lower part of her chest are naked. Just below

her breasts, the curtain, partly drawn, has thrown a deep

shadow which extends upward, hiding her breasts, shoulders

and head. Two pieces of toast pop up in the toaster. She

takes them out, butters them. Then she turns around and bends

over another table on which stands an automatic coffee-maker.

She picks up the coffee-maker, and swings back to the table

to sit down. She does this so deftly that her breasts are

never exposed, but hidden by the fan as she sits down. The

fan moves back and forth as she pours coffee, far enough to

reveal that she wears no bra, but not far enough to fulfill

the exciting promise of her lack of clothes.

THE CAMERA MOVES ON to a distant street corner seen between

two buildings. The traffic is very light at this hour, but a

Sanitation Department truck moves through the intersection

spraying water out behind it to cool the pavement and keep

the dust down. Three little kids in bathing suits run behind

the truck, playing in the water.

THE CAMERA MOVES OFF and around to some buildings at the

side. As it skims this building, we see a hand emerge from

one of the windows, and remove the cover from a birdcage

which is hanging from a hook on the wall outside. In the

cage are two lovebirds -- arguing.

THE CAMERA NOW PULLS BACK SWIFTLY and retreats through the

open window back into Jefferies' apartment. We now see more

of the sleeping man. THE CAMERA GOES IN far enough to show a

head and shoulders of him.

He is L. B. JEFFERIES. A tall, lean, energetic thirty five,

his face long and serious-looking at rest, is in other

circumstances capable of humor, passion, naive wonder and

the kind of intensity that bespeaks inner convictions of

moral strength and basic honesty.

He is sitting in an Everest and Jennings wheelchair.

THE CAMERA PANS along his right leg. It is encased in a

plaster of Paris spica from his waistline to the base of his

toes. Along the white cast someone has written "Here lie the

broken bones of L. B. Jefferies."

THE CAMERA PANS to a nearby table on which rests a shattered

and twisted Speed Graphic Camera, the kind used by fast-action

news photographers.

On the same table, the CAMERA PANS to an eight by ten glossy

photo print. It shows a dirt track auto racing speedway,

taken from a point dangerously near the center of the track.

A racing car is skidding toward the camera, out of control,

spewing a cloud of dust behind it. A rear wheel has come off

the car, and the wheel is bounding at top speed directly

into the camera lens.

THE CAMERA MOVES UP to a framed photograph on the wall.

It is a fourteen by ten print, an essay in violence, having

caught on film the exploding semi-second when a heavy

artillery shell arches into a front-line Korean battle

outpost. Men and equipment erupt into the air suspended in a

solution of blasted rock, dust and screeching shrapnel. That

the photographer was not a casualty is evident, but surprising

when the short distance between the camera and the explosion

is estimated. A signature in the lower right hand corner of

the picture reads -- "L. B. Jefferies."

THE CAMERA PANS to a second photograph of a picket line at

an aircraft plant strike. Strikers, non-strikers and police

are embroiled in a bitter and confused riot.

Clubs, fists and truncheons swing, blood flows, faces twist

with emotion and fallen victims struggle to regain their

feet. The picture represents no distant, cautions photographic

observation, but rather an intimate report, so immediate and

real that the viewer has the nervous feeling the fight

surrounds him and he had best defend himself. The same

signature, "L. B. Jefferies," is in the corner.

THE CAMERA PANS TO another framed picture, this one a

beautiful and awesome shot of an atomic explosion at

Frenchman's Flat, Nevada. It is the cul-de-sac of violence.

The picture taken at a distant observation point, shows some

spectators in the foreground watching the explosion through

binoculars.

THE CAMERA MOVES ON to a shelf containing a number of cameras,

photographic film, etc. It then PAN ACROSS a large viewer on

which is resting a negative of a woman's head.

From this, THE CAMERA MOVES ON to a magazine cover, and

although we do not see the name of the magazine, we can see

the head on the cover is the positive of the negative we

have just passed.

THE CAMERA FINALLY COMES TO REST ON a pile of magazines --

perhaps a hundred or so. They are all of the same publication.

INT. GUNNISON'S OFFICE - DAY - CLOSE UP

The screen is filled with the top of a desk. In addition to

the usual telephones, blotting pad, etc., the most prominent

feature is the number of glossy photo prints, and even larger-

sized mat prints. Some of them have slips pasted over with

descriptions. The center of the desk is occupied by a large

layout of photographs on one magazine page. Behind this we

hear the murmur of two voices of men who can be vaguely seen

beyond the desk.

THE CAMERA PANS UP and we are now face to face with IVAR

GUNNISON and JACK BRYCE. Gunnison is sitting on a window-

ledge, and beyond him we realize we are high above the New

York streets. Bryce leans against a wall at right angles to

him.

Gunnison is holding a cablegram in his hand. Bryce has a

cigarette in his mouth. He scratches a match, and is about

to light it, when he notices that Gunnison, still reading

the cable, has reached into an inside shirt pocket, and

produced a cigarette. Quickly, Bryce moves over to light

Gunnison's cigarette. Then he settles back to light his own.

Gunnison doesn't even bother to thank him.

Bryce gives Gunnison a startled look.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Shooting through the open window, onto Jeff. He is shaving

himself with an electric razor as the phone rings. He shuts

off the shaver, picks up the phone.

At this moment, his attention is drawn to something across

the way. He looks up, expectantly. There is almost a touch

of eagerness in his expression.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - LONG SHOT

While Jeff is continuing his phone conversation, we see the

object of his look. Two pretty girls have appeared on the

distant roof. They are smiling and talking, although we cannot

hear their dialogue. Each wears a terrycloth robe. With their

backs to the CAMERA, they take off the robes, slipping them

down over their shoulders slowly. Then, seductively, they

turn -- revealing the full beauty of their tanned and bathing-

suited bodies. It is almost as if they want to be noticed,

the center of neighborhood attention. They at least have all

of Jeff's attention. Then they spread the robes in front of

them, and lie down on the roof, and out of sight. Jeff seems

a little disappointed.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

During the whole of this previous action, the conversation

between Jeff and Gunnison has gone on as follows:

INT. GUNNISON'S OFFICE - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Gunnison is now seated at his desk, with the phone receiver

to his ear. His assistant, Bryce, can be seen vaguely in the

background.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSE-UP

Jeff asks, eagerly and alertly.

We hear Gunnison's reply.

Jeff's eyes become set upon something else in the neighborhood

he sees.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - LONG SHOT

Jeff's attention is now drawn to another feature of his

backyard entertainment. THE CAMERA IS NOW FOCUSED on the

window of the small building where we earlier saw the girl

behind the oscillating fan. Loud ballet music is pouring

from her open window. The girl, now dressed in dark and

revealing leotard, and ballet slippers, has just turned away

from a portable record player. She begins the first graceful

movement of a modern ballet interpretation.

She gracefully moves across the room to the rhythm of the

music and dance, toward the ice box. With her feet still

moving, she throws open the door, and then rhythmically moving

back to the center of the room, gnaws the chicken bone,

occasionally waving it in the air as part of the choreography.

She now twirls over toward a table at the other side of the

room on which is an open package of bread slices, some butter

nearby.

With swaying body, she puts down the chicken leg, and

gracefully and rhythmically butters a slice of bread.

She picks up both bread and chicken leg and continues her

interpretive dance, alternately munching the bread and butter

and chicken leg.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes drop from the ballet dancer's room to the one

underneath.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - LONG SHOT

THE CAMERA PANS from the window of the dancing girl, to the

window below. Someone is reading the New York Herald Tribune.

The paper lowers, and we see an elderly lady, in her late

sixties. She is a faded, refined type. She looks up in the

direction of the music and in a calm routine fashion adjusts

the volume of her hearing aid. She resumes her reading.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff is amused by what he sees, but continues his conversation

with Gunnison, which has gone on through all the scenes with

the ballet dancer.

At this moment we hear the sounds of a piano playing.

It is a simple, but broken, melody as if someone was just

learning to play the piano, or carefully composing a song.

It clashes abruptly with the music from the ballet dancer's

apartment. It irritates Jeff as he looks in the direction of

the new music.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

We now see the source of the piano music. It comes from the

apartment with the studio window which we saw earlier where

the man was shaving and listening to the radio. The short,

balding man sits at the piano playing a few notes, then

transferring them by pencil to notepaper on the piano rack.

He continues this process, fighting the interference of the

ballet music. The opening bars of his melody are beautiful

and ear-catching.

It is slow, hard work, and the ballet music finally becomes

such an interference that he gives up and walks to the window

to look down toward the dancer's apartment.

He stands by a table at the window which is littered with

records, the morning coffee cup, unwashed, the remains of

breakfast, old newspapers, song sheets, etc.

He takes a cigarette out of his mouth, looks for an ash tray,

and ends up putting it out in the coffee cup. He then returns

to the piano and begins picking out the melody the dancer is

playing on her record player.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff frowns at the double sound, and raises his voice a

little. He continues the conversation which has been heard

all through the previous scene.

Jefferies glances out across to the other apartments as he

sees:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

We see a three-storied, flat-roofed apartment house.

The brick is weather-worn and faded. Each apartment has three

windows facing the back, one showing a hallway, one a living

room, and the window on the right opening into a bedroom.

On the second floor, a man has entered the living room from

a hallway door. He carries a large aluminum sample case common

to salesmen. He sets down the case heavily, removes his hat,

and slowly wipes his brow with the back of his right hand.

He takes off his coat and tie. His shirt is stained with

sweat underneath. He rolls up his sleeves, and his well-

muscled arms heavy with hair confirm his dark, husky build.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

With his eyes still focused on the distant apartments, Jeff

continues talking with Gunnison.

He hangs up and resumes his attention on the apartment of

the salesman.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman looks toward the bedroom door, hesitates, then

reluctantly walks toward it. For a moment he is hidden by

the wall.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff shifts his look more to the right.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The man enters the bedroom. We can see a woman lying on the

far bed. Near her, a small table is covered with medicine

bottles, spoons, boxes of pills, a water pitcher and the

other impedimenta of the chronically ill. The woman sits up

as the man enters. She takes a wet cloth off her forehead.

Before the man even reaches her, she begins talking, somewhat

vigorously. Pointing to a wristwatch, she seems to be saying

something such as "You should have been home two hours ago!

I could be lying here dying for all you'd know -- or care!"

The man stops short of the bed, makes gestures of trying to

placate her, but she goes on scolding. His attitude changes

to weary patience, then irritation, then anger.

He shouts back at her, turns and goes out of the room.

Back in the living room, he picks up his hat, throws it

against the wall in anger, and leaves the apartment, slamming

the door behind him.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff's attention is suddenly diverted to himself. His leg,

under the cast, begins itching. He squirms, tries to move

the leg a little. It gives no relief. He scratches the outside

of the cast, but the itch gets worse. He reaches for a long,

Chinese back scratcher lying on the windowsill. Carefully,

and with considerable ingenuity, he works it under the cast.

He scratches, and a look of sublime relief comes over his

face. Satisfied, he takes the scratcher out. As he replaces

it on the windowsill, his attention is drawn back to the

scene outside the window.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

We see the man who left his apartment in anger come out of

the doorway into the backyard. He is easy to identify through

the color of his garish necktie. In one hand the man carries

a small garden hoe and rake, and in the other a pair of

trimming shears. He goes to a small patch of flowers, perhaps

three feet square.

They are beautiful, multi-colored three foot high zinnias.

He kneels down, inspects them, touches them affectionately

and with some pride. His anger seems to have left him,

replaced by the kind of peace that flowers bring many people.

He stands up, carefully hoes the ground, them rakes it. Then

he snips a few leaves off the lower parts of the plant.

Finally, he waters them.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff's attention is turned to something else of interest.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Into the next door yard we see emerging from the apartment

below the ballet dancer, the elderly lady.

She wear a broad sun hat, dark glasses, and a sunsuit

consisting of pink shorts and halter. She carries a copy of

the Herald Tribune, and still wears her hearing aid. She

settles into a folding, canvas deck chair.

Her skin is dead white, and her body is thin to the point of

emaciation. No sooner has she settled into her chair, than

she is attracted by the sound of the salesman working in his

garden. She gets up, walks to the fence, and looks over. He

notices her, but doesn't speak.

She begins gesturing to him how to take care of his flowers.

He listens for a moment, then looks directly at her. The

strong movements of his mouth show us that he objects

vigorously to the annoyance of her comments. She moves away

from the fence, started and a little shocked.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff is seated in the foreground, in a waist shot.

Behind him, the entrance door to his apartment opens.

STELLA McGAFFERY comes in. She is a husky, unhandsome, dark-

haired woman who is dressed like a district nurse, with dark

coat, dark felt hat, with a white uniform showing underneath

the coat. She carries a small black bag.

Stella pauses on the landing to watch Jeff. He doesn't appear

to notice her entrance.

He doesn't turn.

As she comes down the stairs of the landing, holding on the

wrought iron railing with one hand:

She puts her bag down on a table. It is worn, and looks as

if it belongs more to a fighter than a nurse. She takes off

her hat coat, and hangs them on a chair.

He doesn't answer. She opens the bag, takes out some medical

supplies: a thermometer, a stop watch, a bottle of rubbing

oil, a can of powder, a towel. She talks as she works.

A look at his face shows he doesn't think much of it.

She takes the thermometer out of its case, shakes it down.

Looks at it. Satisfied, she walks to Jeff.

She swings the wheelchair around abruptly to face her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff starts to protest.

She shoves the thermometer into his mouth.

As she leaves him holding the thermometer THE CAMERA PULLS

BACK as she crosses to a divan. She takes a sheet from

underneath, and covers the divan with it. Talking, all the

time.

Jeff nods a bored "yes."

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Stella stops for a moment, and looks at Jeff challengingly.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

A patient, suffering look comes over his face. He takes out

the thermometer.

Jeff has no answer. Defeated, he puts the thermometer back

into his mouth.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Stella goes on with her work.

THE CAMERA PANS HER over to him. She takes out the

thermometer, looks at it.

She gets down the thermometer. Sterilizes it with a piece of

alcohol-soaked cotton in her other hand.

She gets behind the wheelchair the CAMERA PULLS back as she

pushes it over to the divan. She puts the thermometer away

in its case. Then she helps him off with his pajama top. She

helps him stand on one foot.

He hops one step, then she lowers him, face down, on the

divan. She gets a bottle of rubbing oil.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSE SHOT

The CAMERA is very low at one end of the divan. Jeff's head,

half-buried in the sheet, is large in the fore-ground.

Beyond him Stella looms large and powerful-looking.

Stella takes a handful of oil, slaps it on his back. He

winces.

She hits him with some more cold oil. He winces again.

Jeff gives an exasperated look.

Stella sprinkles powder on his back, spreads it around.

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK as she helps Jeff to a sitting position.

He buttons on his shirt.

THE CAMERA MOVES IN as she helps him into the wheelchair,

listening to him with exaggerated attention. He, stops as he

notice her attitude. Then he goes on with less conviction:

She swings him around in front of the window. He starts to

look out.

Jeff swings his chair back to look at her.

Jeff can't help smiling.

She relaxes.

Stella leaves for the kitchen in a huff. Jeff turns his chair

to the window.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff now looks out to see what has happened to the old lady,

and the man with the flowers.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The elderly lady is now asleep in her deck chair, her face

covered with the Herald Tribune. There is no sign of the man

with the flowers.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes travel up to the ballet dancer's window.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

She is sitting near the window looking into an upright mirror.

Dreamily, and methodically, she is brushing her long copper-

colored hair.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

His eyes are suddenly turned in another direction, sharply

to his left.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

He is now looking at the windows of the apartments nearest

to him. A shade has gone up, and a man, obviously a caretaker

is raising a window with some effort. Having accomplished

this, he turns back into the room, and we now see him approach

a young man and woman who are standing just inside the

doorway. He hands a key to the young man, and then obligingly

brings in two suitcases which he places on the floor beside

them. He gives them a studied, but agreeable nod, then

departs.

We now see that the girl has a small hat with a veil, and an

ornate corsage pinned to her light blue tailored suit. The

boy, who like the girl is perhaps twenty years old, wears a

dark blue serge suit and a grey felt hat. He takes off the

hat, and scales it over to a nearby chair. Quickly they are

in each other's arms, kissing passionately, crushing the

girl's corsage and pushing her hat back a little. They part,

the boy laughs nervously, and takes a furtive glance out

toward the corridor. He looks back into the room, and beckons

her to come out. She follows him wonderingly. For a moment,

both are lost from sight. When they reappear, he is carrying

her in his arms, over the threshold. He sets her down, closes

the door, and they kiss again.

They part, still holding hands and looking into each other's

eyes. Then slowly, and significantly, she looks toward the

open window. He releases her hands, goes to the window and

pull down the shade, as she is reaching upward with both

hands to unpin her hat.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

There is a soft, understanding look on Jeff's face, and he

gives an involuntary sigh. He is unaware that Stella is now

standing behind him.

He freezes, turns slowly to look up at her.

FADE IN:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SUNSET - LONG SHOT

The CAMERA makes a short sweep around the neighborhood showing

that some of the rooms are now with their lights on.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK into Jeff's apartment until his head

fills the screen. He is asleep. A shadow of some other person

creeps over his face. His eyes start to open. He looks up.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - CLOSEUP

The screen is filled with the eyes, nose and mouth of a woman

coming nearer and nearer to the CAMERA to kiss Jeff. The

face is more or less in shadow, a faint light coming onto

the profile from the window. It moves down until the lips

move out of her bottom of her screen, and just the remain

for fill the screen.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - CLOSEUP

The two big profiles filling the screen. The girl kisses

Jeff firmly, but not passionately. Then her head moves back

an inch or two. She speaks.

She gives a low. Warm laugh, and the CAMERA PULLS BACK to

show that Lisa has been bending over Jeff's wheelchair from

the side. As she straightens up, it PANS her swiftly over to

the corner of the room, keeping her in big closeup. She turns

on a low, hanging light.

We see her full facial beauty for the first time. It is a

warm, intelligent face.

The CAMERA FOLLOWS HER quickly to another lamp. She gets a

little farther away from us so that we now see her down to

her waist. She turns on the second lamp and the light shows

us that her beauty is not alone in her face.

The CAMERA PANS HER over to a third lamp which she turns on.

She is now full figure, beautifully groomed and flawless.

Her dress is high-style fashion and dramatic evening wear.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff looks across the room at her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - SEMI-LONG SHOT

She does a professional model's turn in the dress showing

off its features.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff replies:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - MEDIUM SHOT

She laughs pleasantly.

She looks down at the long mahogany table beside her which

is littered with a number of his personal effects.

Her own handbag is also on the table. As she talks her eyes

scan the table as if she's looking for something specific.

Lisa finds what she has been looking for. Picks up an old

and cracked cigarette box, examines it as she talks.

She turns to look at him, and moves toward him, carrying the

cigarette box.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa facing Jeff in the chair.

She turns around quickly and dashes to the door, dropping

the cigarette box on the table as she passes, THE CAMERA

PANNING with her. She goes up the two steps, stops, turns

back to Jeff.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - SEMI-CLOSEUP

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - SEMI-LONG SHOT

She reaches for the doorknob, turns it:

She swings open the door and stands to one side. Framed in

the doorway is middle-aged waiter wearing a white linen pea

jacket with a red collar. He's carrying in one hand a large

portable warming oven, and in the other hand an ice bucket

containing a bottle of wine covered with a napkin.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - CLOSEUP

His reaction is one of tender amusement.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - MEDIUM SHOT

He smiles, nods enters. He goes down the stairs, as she

follows. THE CAMERA GOES with both of them.

He hands her the wine bucket and she places it on the table.

He moves toward the kitchen.

Carl goes into the kitchen.

She moves to a small bar set in the wall cabinet.

Produces two glasses, hold them up.

She finds it. Puts the glasses on the table, uncovers the

wine, and begins screwing in the corkscrew.

Carl comes out of the kitchen carrying the empty warming

oven. He sets it down he sees Lisa struggling with the

corkscrew.

She does. He takes out his own professional corkscrew, quickly

inserts it and levers the cork out. He deftly wraps the napkin

around the bottle and pours the wine, replacing the bottle

in the wine bucket. Lisa has opened her purse to produce

some money, in bills. She hands it to the waiter.

Carl, without looking at the money, puts it in his pocket.

He picks up the warning oven.

Carl goes up the stairs and out the door, while THE CAMERA

REMAINS on Lisa and Jeff. She picks up both glasses of wine

and walks toward Jeff. She seats herself on the windowsill

as she hands him his glass. We notice that the outside is

considerably darker by now, and the lights are beginning to

come on in the various apartments outside. They raise their

glasses in a silent toast, and sip the wine. THE CAMERA CLOSES

IN until they are both in a tight TOW SHOT.

She breaks off with a little laugh, and a slight reproachful

look at Jeff. She sips her drink then says:

Jeff's opinion of that is a short chuckle.

She puts down her glass and slides along the window seat

nearer to him, THE CAMERA CLOSING IN. She looks up at him

with a serious frankness.

Jeff interrupts her with soft laughter.

She stands up. THE CAMERA PULLS BACK.

She moves away behind him, into the kitchen.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff gives a sigh of relief, exhaling his breath, then looks

down toward his legs in thought. He holds this attitude for

just a moment, then seems to shake off his concern to lift

his head and turn his attention to what might be happening

in his neighborhood beyond his window.

Behind him we see the vague form of Lisa bringing in a card

table, which she proceeds to unfold.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Jeff's attention is concentrated on an apartment we have not

seen before. This belongs to a single woman, about forty

years of age. She lives alone. Her apartment is below that

of the salesman with the invalid wife.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff leans forward with increased interest. Behind him we

get vague figure of Lisa laying a cloth over the card table.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

A nearer view show us a more intimate picture of the woman

Jeff is concentrating on. She is thin and unattractive. At

the moment, she is putting on her make-up in front of the

bedroom mirror. She gives a half turn and picks up a pair of

horn-rimmed glasses, which she puts on, and leans nearer to

her mirror. She picks up a lipstick and proceeds to paint

her lips carefully.

Having completed her make-up, she takes off her glasses and

surveys her face in the mirror. She stands up, swings the

skirt of her dress around, admires herself in the mirror.

She is quite flat-chested, and the dress hangs unattractively.

She lifts her chin, gives one last look, and turns toward

her living room. As if she's preparing to meet someone.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Without taking his eyes from the scene, Jeff picks up his

wineglass and drinks. As he drinks, his eyes move slightly

over.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

THE CAMERA HAS PANNED slightly to the woman's living room

window. A small, candle-lit table is set up, with dinner for

two. The spinster sweeps into the room, smiling. She goes to

the door, opens it, and in pantomime admits an imaginary

caller. She pretends to kiss him lightly, take his hat, and

place the hat on a chair. Then she shows him to a seat at

the table, disappears into an unseen kitchen and returns

with a bottle and two glasses. She sits down, pours two

drinks. She lifts her drink in a toast to the imaginary man

opposite her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff gives a faint, sympathetic smile, and subconsciously

raises his glass in response. In the background, Lisa, having

just placed a pair of candlesticks on the table, is returning

to the kitchen.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Having finished her drink, the lonesome woman pours herself

another one. Then she starts to take a sip, smiling across

the table at her imaginary guest. She lowers the glass onto

the table. The smile fades from her face as her head drops.

Suddenly she buries her head in her arms over the table and

starts to sob.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff, his glass in hand, looks out sympathetically. He is

unaware that Lisa is standing behind him, and is also watching

this little drama.

Both of them swing their eyes a little to the left.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The kitchen-lining room combination of the ballet dancer's

apartment has now been made more presentable.

The ice box is now skillfully concealed by a large Chinese

screen. All kitchen utensils have been put away, replaced by

more attractive effects, and lamp light softens the

surroundings.

Miss Torso is now wearing a cocktail dress, which shows off

her figure to great advantage, especially when she leans

toward three assorted men to offer them a plate of hors d'

oeuvres. She is the perfect hostess, animated, charming, and

with an added personal touch for each guest. She is behaving

with a sophistication which was not apparent when we first

saw her in the morning. Her every movement is followed

admiringly by the eyes of the three men -- one wearing black

tie, with a touch of grey in his hair, a Long Island socialite --

a young rather handsome, actor in grey flannel suit -- and

last, a bright, pleasant, young man who might possibly be

from Wall street, wearing a blue-pin-striped suit. The latter

two are engaged in an animated conversation. The young man

in the grey suit is showing the other young man some newspaper

cuttings he's taken from his pocket.

Miss Torso sees that the cocktail glass of the third man is

empty. She takes it over to the window, and starts to fill

it. The man in the tuxedo follows her over, with a casual

glance toward the other two. He stands beside her as she

makes the drink. He looks at his watch with some impatience,

and makes a side comment to her as to the lateness of the

time. She turns, gives him a light kiss on his cheek, as if

she's telling him to be patient. Instead of pacifying him,

it makes him more amorous, and he puts an arm around her

shoulder an plants a heavy kiss on her cheek. She turns to

face him, they look into each other's eyes a moment, and she

allows herself to be kissed on the lips -- but only long

enough so as to attract the attention of the other two men.

With a little admonishing look, she moves away from him, and

makes him rejoin the other two.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff turns and looks up to Lisa with a grin.

She moves away with a significant look to him. THE CAMERA

MOVES IN until Jeff is in semi-closeup, alone.

He ponders over her last remark, then changes his look to

another direction.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The newlyweds's apartment has the shades still drawn.

Although there's a light burning inside.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

There is a slight, but warm, smile on Jeff's face as he looks

at the drawn shade. His eyes move away from the newlyweds'

apartment, and slowly explore the neighborhood to his right.

He finds something of interest, and stops to stare at it.

His face sobers at what he sees.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman's apartment. We see both the living room and

the bedroom. The salesman has prepared a dinner tray, and is

carrying it from the kitchen, through the lining room, into

the bedroom. He places it on the lap of his wife, sitting up

in bed. He puts a couple of pillows behind her back to make

her more comfortable.

She doesn't bother to thank him, but is busy examining the

content of the tray. Her attitude shows her dissatisfaction.

Nothing is right. It's not what she wanted, and it's badly

prepared. She begins criticizing him. He starts to answer

her back, but decides better of it, and instead, leaves the

room. He goes to the kitchen reaches up to a wall cabinet,

takes down a bottle and pours himself a drink. Then he returns

to the lining room, listens a moment. The wife is grudging

beginning to eat the dinner. The husband quietly lifts a

phone from the cradle, and dials a number.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff becomes completely absorbed with he sees. He leans

forward a little.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

We get a better view of the salesman waiting while his

connection is being made. Whoever he has called answers. And

instantly there is a marked change in his attitude. He

relaxes, smiles, is warm. He talks softly, perhaps guardedly,

with an occasional glance at the bedroom door. In the bedroom,

his wife has become aware of the call.

Quietly she moves the tray, gets out of bed, and goes to the

bedroom door to listen. The wall hides her from our view.

Then suddenly, she apparently opens the door, because the

living room, we see her arm suddenly appear, pointing at the

man and the telephone. He speaks quickly into the phone, and

hangs up. His face is flushed and angry as he goes toward

the bedroom. In the bedroom his wife appears walking back to

the bed, followed by the husband. She is laughing, and he is

answering her in angry tones. She climbs in bed laughing.

The more she laughs, the more angry he gets, and the harder

she laughs. Finally, he leaves the room, goes into the living

room, back into the kitchen and has another drink. He stands

there, controlling an outburst of emotion, and seems almost

to be crushing the shot glass in his clenched fist.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

While Jeff has been engaged in watching this little drama,

the SOUND of a piano has started. He now diverts his attention

from the salesman's apartment to the source of the piano

music. He turns his eyes in the direction of the composer's

apartment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Through the studio window of the song-writer's apartment we

see the man at work again on his original melody, and he is

farther along the line of the melody than before.

It is beginning to take some shape, and give promise of its

full beauty.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff, listening to the composer. His head turns as Lisa's

voice comes over:

THE CAMERA QUICKLY PULL BACK as Jeff swings his chair around.

Lisa is emerging from the kitchen, carrying the serving dish

of their lobster thermidor.

She pulls up a chair and seats herself at the card table. We

now observe that two small lit candles adorn the table, and

the rest of the room lights are out.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

A faint shade of disappointment is seen on Lisa's face; but

she quickly recovers and looks down at the table.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff looks at her soberly.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

The brightness drains from Lisa's face, and she lowers her

eyes slowly toward the table.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa slowly helping Jeff to lobster from the main dish.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Shooting over Jeff's shoulder we see beyond him the divan-

bed upon which Lisa is stretched out. There is one light

burning, behind Lisa's head. A fierce discussion is in

progress. Lisa gesticulates with her hands, body and legs.

Jeff raises both his hands.

Lisa draws back one leg, and points a finger challengingly.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff begin to get desperate.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa, stretched out on the divan. She looks at him for a

moment without speaking. Then:

We see Jeff's hand coming to the foreground with a restraining

gesture.

Lisa turns on her side, and stares into the room, angrily.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

After a moment of silence, Jeff says earnestly:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa, still looking out into the room, and without turning,

says:

She doesn't answer, obviously annoyed at the unnecessary

questions.

She turns at last, and looks across at him.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

SHOOTING OVER LISA'S SHOULDER, and down her body, with Jeff

in the chair beyond. Jeff says, as if remembering some old

experience:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Lisa realizes she is getting nowhere.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff, getting angry.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff is definitely angry.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Lisa starts to rise from the divan, THE CAMERA PANNING UP.

She moves away from THE CAMERA into the center of the room,

as she says:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff looks across at her with some concern.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa, from Jeff's viewpoint.

Lisa begins to move around the room assembling her possessions

preparatory to leaving. She puts a comb, and other effects,

into a handbag. She gets her stole.

All this as she talks.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff starts to say something then thinks better of it, and

remains silent.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa pauses in the act of gathering her things together.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes follow her up the steps toward the door. He calls

out to her, impulsively, as we HEAR the SOUND of the door

opening.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa turns in the half-opened door.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI LONG SHOT

Jeff tries to be pleasant, and offhand.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Lisa, standing in the open doorway.

Continues smiling as she close the door softly behind her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

The pleasantness on Jeff's face slowly melts into baffled

discouragement. He reaches for a nearby phone picks up the

receiver, dials. It buzzes on filter.

Receiver up on filter.

Jeff hangs up, looks up to the door through which Lisa left.

He's not particularly happy.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff returns to the window. He lights a cigarette and smokes

it peacefully, as he contemplates the neighborhood.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The CAMERA slowly sweeps over the various apartments with an

odd window lit here and there. In the distant street there

is still some traffic passing, with one or two pedestrians

going by. THE CAMERA completes its sweep, and starts to move

back again. Somewhere a dog howls. The PANNING CAMERA comes

to a sudden halt.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff smiles a little, but as the howl continues, his

expressions sobers. His eyes begin to scan the neighborhood,

as if looking for the source. He fails to find it, and sits

there, puzzled and disturbed. The scene, and the sound of

the dog:

FADE IN:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff's chair is turned facing the window so that we see the

darkened room behind him. There is just one side light

burning, which illuminates the side of his face.

His head nods sleepily as he dozes. He opens his eyes and

looks out, as a slight sound of rain starts.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - LONG SHOT

From his viewpoint we see the first few drops of rain starting

to fall. It is sort, gentle rain, not a downpour. There are

still some windows lit in the neighborhood. The apartment

house corridors all have small night lights burning.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff wakens a little more fully as his attentions is drawn

to:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The couple who sleep on the fire escape. The increasing rain

cause them to hastily gather their things to retreat inside.

The man, hurriedly untying the alarm clock from the railing

of the fire escape, lets it slip through his fingers. As if

falls to the garden below, the CAMERA FANS SWIFTLY down with

it. When the clock hits the ground, the alarm goes off sending

a shrill sound through the neighborhood.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff smiles at the incident, and then lowers his eyes slightly

as something else catches his attention.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Coming out of his apartment into the corridor on the floor

below is the salesman with the nagging wife. The shades are

drawn in his apartment, but a light burns dimly behind them.

The salesman carries a large aluminum suitcase -- the same

one we saw him with earlier in the day. The sound of the

alarm startles him. He turns toward the window a moment

listening. Then reassured that is is nothing important, he

turns and moves down the corridor.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff is puzzled. He looks down a moment in thought. Then he

darts his eyes and swings them toward the left.

He looks steadily toward the distant street corner.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The street corner, lighted by a lamp, is deserted. A moment

later, the salesman, still carrying the suitcase, moves

diagonally across the corner, head down against the rain.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff looks wonderingly at this nocturnal activity. Then he

looks down at his wristwatch.

INSERT

Jeff's watch reads 1:55.

QUICK FADE IN:

INSERT

The watch now reads 2:35.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

More puzzled, allows his eyes to travel from the street to

the apartment corridor.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The salesman is see coming down the corridor to his apartment,

still carrying the aluminum case. He quickly enters his

apartment door in a business-like manner.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff starts to assume a thoughtful air, when he is startled

by a light which falls across his face from the right. He

looks toward the light.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The light comes from the song-writer's apartment. His door

is open, and he is hanging onto the door frame, his hand

still on the light switch. He surveys his apartment. He

appears rather drunk. He comes into the apartment, closes

the door behind him, and sways a little. He wears a hat,

pushed back on his forehead, and no raincoat. His clothes

are quite wet. He might have even fallen.

He looks disgustedly at the piano, then lurches toward it.

There is no doubt now as the state of his drunkenness. At

the piano he viciously sweeps all the note paper off the

music stand. This seems to give him some satisfaction, but

he loses his balance, twists sideways, and fall into a nearby

chair. He remains there, bleary-eyed and a little sick.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

What he has observed seems to give Jeff an idea. He moves

his wheelchair backward and to the left alongside the side

board. Awkwardly, with his left hand, he reaches up for a

bottle of whiskey. He cradles the bottle in his lap, and

reaches for a tumbler. He then wheels back to the window,

and pours himself a good, long drink. He lifts up the glass,

starts to drink, but something happening beyond his window

startles him and he stops in the middle of his drink, his

eyes a little wider then usual.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman is again leaving his apartment with his aluminum

suitcase.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes travel down to the street.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

A brief moment or two. Then the salesman, carrying his

aluminum case, crosses the street.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff's face is expressionless. He just stares.

FADE IN:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff's head is nodding and dozing again. The side light from

the song-writer's apartment is no longer on his face. Jeff's

eyes open, then his head comes up quickly, trying to clear

the sleep from his mind, as he remembers the object of his

vigilance.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The salesman's apartment shows the shades drawn and a dim

light burning behind them. The CAMERA PANS to the empty

corridor.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes turn sharply in the direction of the street.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The street is deserted. At the right hand side of the screen

a light goes on. THE CAMERA PANS OVER and we see that Miss

Torso has returned from her date. She is wearing a three-

quarter length coat over her evening dress. She is inside,

with the door two-thirds closed, but she leans out to kiss

someone goodnight. Then it takes some coaxing to get the

door completely closed.

She turns the key in the lock. She listens a moment then

comes to the center of the room. She takes her coat off and

drapes it over chair. She removes the screen in front of the

ice box, then opens the ice box.

She searches it for something to eat; finds a big piece of

pumpkin pie. She closes the ice box. She starts to eat the

pie as she moves in the direction of the bathroom. Stopping

a moment, she puts the piece of pie on a table, and proceeds

to take off her dress. Undoing the zippers, she slides it

over her head as she passes into the bathroom. The dress is

thrown on a nearby chair, and the bare arm picks up a piece

of pie. She is now in the bathroom. We see her slip down the

brassiere straps, but the window does not permit us to see

any lower. As she munches on the pie, she pulls out a few

pins holding up her hair, which she proceeds to brush

rhythmically. She turns and moves down her bare back.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes suddenly switch to the street.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI LONG SHOT

We catch a quick glimpse of the salesman, just passing the

alleyway, suitcase in hand. The CAMERA PANS across the ballet

dancer's apartment, over to the salesman's apartment. It

waits, until he appears in the corridor.

He enters his apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff sits in his wheelchair, looking quietly out at the

neighborhood, sleep beginning to take hold on him again.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - LONG SHOT

THE CAMERA PANS slightly over the whole of the neighborhood.

The lights in Miss Torso's apartment snap out. Only one light

remains. It burns behind the drawn shades of the salesman's

apartment.

FADE IN:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAWN - CLOSEUP

A big head of Jeff. He is still in his wheelchair, sound

asleep. The CAMERA PANS off his face, out through the window.

The rain has stopped, and the general light of dawn is coming

up. The CAMERA COMES TO REST on the salesman's apartment and

corridor, which is still dimly lit by the electric lights.

We see the salesman emerge into the corridor, pause a moment

to allow a woman to proceed him. Her back is to the CAMERA

and we do not see her face. They move away, down the corridor.

The CAMERA PANS BACK into Jeff's sleeping face.

FADE IN:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - LONG SHOT

It is now mid-morning. The sun is shining. Miss Torso is

practicing her dance to the sound of ballet music.

We can hear the song-writer at work, but the thing that

attracts our attention mostly, is some action that emanates

from the fire escape where the couple sleep at night. On a

long rope, the woman is lowering an open wicker basket in

which sits a small dog. When is reaches the yard below, the

CAMERA PANNING DOWN, the dog steps out and runs off to explore

the yard. The woman pulls up the basket, and leaves it on

the fire escape. The CAMERA PULL BACK into Jeff's apartment

where Stella is busy massaging Jeff's back at he lies face

down on the divan.

Stella hits a sore muscle in Jeff's back. He jumps.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

A low camera has Jeff's head on the foreground, with Stella

just behind him, at work on his back. She attacks the sore

muscle vigorously.

She stops massaging, reaches for the oil.

Stella hits his back with a palmful of cold oil. It takes

his breath.

She helps him to a sitting position.

Jeff turns his head away for a moment. She helps him into

the chair. Hands him his shirt, which he proceeds to put on.

The back of his chair is to the window.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

He quickly turns his wheelchair around to the window until

he is in profile.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman, having just raised the shades in the living

room, is now looking out the window. It is not a casual look,

but a long, careful, searching appraisal of all the apartment

house windows in his neighborhood, starting from his left to

his right. His eyes move closer toward Jeff's apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff in his chair, facing the window, Stella beside him.

Jeff nearly knocks the startled Stella off her feet with his

arm.

He propels his chair backward quickly, and Stella moves to

the side with surprising agility. They are both in shadow.

Jeff keeps his eyes trained on the window.

Stella relaxes, gives Jeff a disgusted look, and starts to

move out of the shadows.

She moves back into the shadows.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman completes his searching glance at the

neighborhood. Then something directly below his window catches

his attention. He looks sharply downward, his body visibly

tensing.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff, with a restraining hand to Stella, begins to edge his

chair cautiously forward so that he can see what the salesman

is looking at.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

THE CAMERA MOVES FORWARD, and as it reaches the edge of the

window, PANS DOWN and shows us what the salesman is looking

at. The little dog that was lowered in the basket is sniffing

at the salesman's personal flower bed.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes move up quickly to look at the salesman.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman leans forward and grips the window sill as he

watches the dog. The CAMERA PANS DOWN and we now see that

the old lady with the hearing aid is leaning over the fence

admonishing the dog. We can faintly hear her voice saying

something to the effect that he'll get into trouble. The dog

turns to glance at her and apparently taking heed, moves

away. The old lady is wearing a faded house-robe.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff is amused at the dog incident. Behind him, Stella moves

to the center of the room, saying:

She begins putting her equipment back into her black bag.

Jeff's eyes lift to the salesman's apartment, and the

amusement drains from his face. He leans forward a little,

tensely.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman has his aluminum case on the table near the

center of the room. He is carefully wiping out the interior

with dust cloth.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff watching intently. Stella putting the last of her things

into her bag.

Jeff continues to what the salesman, his face showing a great

concentration of thought.

Stella picks up her bag, stares at Jeff's back a moment,

then starts for the door.

Jeff swings half-way around in his chair just as Stella

reaches the top of the steps.

She turns around. Jeff points to a coat-stand near the door.

She puts down her bag, reaches for the binoculars, takes

them out the case. She comes down the stairs, brings them to

him. He immediately swings to the window, and lifts them to

his eyes. Stella sniffs, then goes to the door, as she says:

As Stella goes out the door, the CAMERA MOVES IN until Jeff's

head, and the binoculars, are filling the screen.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman has completed his cleaning of the case. He is

in the act of placing it on the floor. He turns and again

glances out of the window.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff quickly lowers the binoculars and edges back a few

inches. He watches a moment, then cautiously lifts the

binoculars again.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - SEMI-LONG SHOT - (DAY)

The man is now moving out of the living room, and the

binoculars PAN him though to the small kitchen which is seen

through a side window.

The man starts to busy himself in this kitchen with his back

to us, but the image is very unsatisfactory.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the binoculars and there is an expression of

exasperation on his face. He throws the binoculars down, and

then looks about him. He backs his chair up quickly toward

the main cabinet on his left. He leans down, opens a cupboard

door and takes out a long-focus lens. Then from a shelf above

he takes a small Exacta camera. He quickly takes off the

existing lens and puts on the telephoto lens in its place.

He wheels himself back to the window and raises the camera

to his eye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - CLOSE SHOT

Through the view-finder of the camera, we are now brought

into close proximity with the salesman in his little kitchen.

His back is still to us. He half-turns and takes a used

newspaper. He spreads it open, along the drainboard. From

the sink he takes out a large butcher's knife, and a long,

narrow saw. They disappear from sight as he lays them on the

newspaper and proceeds to wrap them up. Having completed his

job, he emerges from the kitchen carrying the newspaper-

wrapped parcel.

For a moment he is lost behind the wall that separates the

kitchen recess from the living room. He does not reappear

for a moment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the camera for a moment, and watches tensely.

Suddenly he puts it up to his eye again.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - CLOSE SHOT

Half of a man's body is now seen in the living room.

Then the salesman turns and moves to the center of the room.

He is not carrying anything. He sits down on a couch, with a

display of fatigue. He yawns and stretches out of sight at

full length on the couch.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the camera. He watches the living room for a

moment. Then his eye travels briefly back to the kitchen;

then return to the living room. His brow knits a little as

we:

FADE IN:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

The thermometer outside of Jeff's window, registering 83

degrees. The CAMERA PANS OFF to the left until it comes to

rest on the song-writer's studio. He is dressed only in

bathing trunks, and is vigorously cleaning his rug with a

carpet sweeper. In the middle of his sweeping, he stops,

hurries a step or two to the piano. He plays a couple of

notes with one hand, while he stands.

Listens, plays them again. Decides they are no good, and

returns to his carpet sweeping.

THE CAMERA PANS FARTHER LEFT to the salesman's apartment.

There are no lights burning behind the drawn shade of the

bedroom, but the living room and the kitchen are lighted.

There is no sign of the salesman.

THE CAMERA CONTINUES ITS PAN to the left, to include the

couple who sleep on the fire escape in the hot weather.

We now get an opportunity to examine these people more

closely. The man is balding, and middle-aged. He is wearing

striped pajamas. He is in the act of laying out the mattress.

His wife is slightly younger, peroxided, faded show girl

type. Also wearing pajamas, with a fluffy handkerchief in

the left pocket, the wife is leaning over the railing holding

onto the rope which leads to the dog's basket now on the

floor of the courtyard. Having been a one-time siffleuse,

her call to the dog is clarion and melodic.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The little dog emerges reluctantly from the shadows, and

steps into the basket. It begins to move upward, and THE

CAMERA FOLLOWS it. When the basket reaches the fire escape,

THE CAMERA PANS ON to the apartment of Miss Torso. She is in

the bathroom brushing her long hair, while her thoughts seem

to be far away.

THE CAMERA DROPS DOWN to the apartment below, occupied by

the elderly lady with the hearing aid. For the first time we

see something of her activities inside the apartment. She

wears a short smock, although her legs are still bare. She

is hard at work on a piece of abstract sculpture. It takes

the form of a piece of mahogany through which a simple hole

has been carved.

THE CAMERA MOVES ON much farther to the left, and eventually

comes to rest on the newly-weds' apartment with the shade

still drawn.

It MOVES ON and at last passes though Jeff's window, and

comes to rest on the two bid heads of Jeff and Lisa.

Her lips are brushing lightly against his cheek as she speaks:

Jeff moves his eyes slightly to something outside the window.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The salesman's apartment, just as we saw it a moment ago.

The shades drawn and lights out in the bedroom, the shade up

and lights on in the living room and kitchen. Still no one

in sight.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - TWO SHOT

We are now able to see that Jeff's apartment is in darkness,

only faintly lit from the distant light of the neighbors'

window. By her position, Lisa is seated on Jeff's sound knee,

her arms around his neck.

She starts kissing him.

She gives up trying to interest him in romance, and moves

back from the embrace. THE CAMERA PULL BACK.

Lisa stands, straightens out her dress, stretches a little

then she turns to the divan, apparently not too interested

in his observation about the salesman's life.

Jeff is thoughtful for a moment, then he relaxes and smiles

a little. He turns to the window to look out again. Lisa

exits the picture.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa stretches herself out on the divan. Her head rest on

the cushion at the far end, and she instinctively falls into

an attractive pose. However, her expression is disturbed as

she watches Jeff.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

He stares intently out the window.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa weighs this information, trying to make some sense out

of it.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff turns his eyes from the salesman's apartment, and looks

down reflectively. He looks up again, and then his eyes

catches sight of something. He leans forward slightly.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Torso is lying, face down, on her divan bed. The only

light in the apartment is from a reading lamp. She is reading

a book held in one hand, while eating a sandwich in another.

Her back is bare, and all she wears is a pair of brief dark

blue shorts. At one point, she lifts her torso up slightly

to brush crumbs out from beneath her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

He looks away from Miss Torso, thoughtfully.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Lisa leans forward and looks out the window to see what Jeff

is referring to. She turns back to him with a blank stare.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff turns and looks at her, quite unaware of her surprise

at his comment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa sits bolt upright on the divan. She reaches back quickly

and pulls on the overhead light. At that moment the songwriter

returns to his composing. We can see him over Lisa's shoulder.

He is beginning his song again, and it has taken on new

fullness and melody.

Although it is not complete, it is farther along then before,

and he plays his theme a number of different ways, trying to

move it note by note to its completion.

Lisa just stares at Jeff for a moment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff is staring out of the window again. Over this we hear

Lisa's voice:

Jeff puts out a restraining hand.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

At last the salesman is seen coming along the corridor.

He does not wear shirt, but only an undershirt. Slung over

one shoulder, with his arm through is, is a large coil of

sturdy rope. He goes through the living room into the bedroom.

He does not put on the bedroom lights.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff reaches quickly for his binoculars, and trains them on

the salesman's apartment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

As seen though the binoculars, the salesman comes out of the

bedroom, to the kitchen, where he gets a carving knife. He

turns around and goes back to the bedroom.

The lights go on behind the draw shades, after a short moment.

The dim shadow of the salesman is seen moving around the

room.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa, still stretched out on the divan looking at Jeff,

suddenly sits upright and then getting up from the divan,

mover over to Jeff, THE CAMERA GOING WITH her.

In a sudden surprise move, she swings his chair completely

around so that his back is to the window. He drops the

binoculars into his lap in surprise. THE CAMERA MOVES IN as

Lisa leans over Jeff, gripping both sides of his chair

Jeff tries to turn around, but she won't let the chair move.

She turns the wheelchair slightly to her left so that he can

see the newlyweds' apartment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The drawn shades of the newlyweds' apartment. A dim light

burning behind them.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff looks, turns back to her, trying to suppress a chuckle.

Lisa half looks up and out the window. She opens her mouth

to answer, but a new look overtakes her face. It is concern,

surprise, and a little shock. Jeff sees the change, is

sobered, and quickly turns the chair around.

He looks out the window, using his binoculars.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The shades in the bedroom are now up. Both beds are empty,

and stripped of their linen, the mattresses thrown up over

the end of the beds. The salesman, sweating heavily, stands

over a large, square trunk in the center of the room. It is

stoutly bound by the heavy rope we previously saw him bring

into the apartment. He wipes one forearm across his brow,

and then heads for the kitchen. In the kitchen, he produces

a bottle, pours himself two or three straight drinks, then

leans with a display of exhaustion against the kitchen sink.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff lowers the glasses. His look is sober. Lisa stands behind

him, one hand on the back of the wheelchair. She, too, is

serious. THE CAMERA MOVES IN until Lisa's head fills the

screen. She says, slowly:

She is still staring out the window, as the scene

FADE IN:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff is seated in the dark, his face lit by the faint glow

from the distant street. He is looking out of the window

tensely, as THE CAMERA MOVES IN, until he is in big profile.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - LONG SHOT

From Jeff's viewpoint, all the windows are dark. The couple

are sleeping on the fire escape. The salesman's apartment is

dark as well. Suddenly a match flares, and we see the salesman

light a cigar. The flame of the match illuminates his face

for a moment. When is dies out, we see just the glow of the

cigar burning.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

The CAMERA is now facing Jeff. We see that his left hand

rests on the telephone receiver which is close to him. The

phone starts to RING, but makes only the slightest sound, as

he instantly picks it up. As he talks, in a low voice, he

keeps his eyes on the salesman's apartment.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

We get an impression of Sixth Avenue behind Lisa at the phone.

Lisa also talks in a low, quiet voice.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff, still looks toward the salesman's apartment.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Lisa smilingly says:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff is still looking toward the salesman's apartment.

He puts the receiver down, and resumes his vigil.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - LONG SHOT

All we can see is the glow of the salesman's cigar.

FADE IN:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff is seated by the window in his wheelchair. He is talking

on the telephone while his eyes are still on the neighborhood.

There is a touch of urgency in his voice.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK slightly as Stella emerges from the

kitchen. She is carrying a tray with breakfast on it. Eggs,

bacon, toast and coffee.

Stella squeezes past the right side of Jeff, and places the

food tray on a windowseat in front of him. She peers out

cautiously toward Thorwald's apartment for a moment. Then

she squeezes back, moving to the sideboard against which

leans a small table on an adjustable stand.

Stella returns with the table, and sets it up so that it is

across Jeff's lap. She gets the tray of food pausing to look

toward Thorwald's apartment. Then she places the breakfast

on the tray table in front of Jeff. He has moved back a little

to avoid getting the phone cable tangled in the food and

dishes.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

He hangs up. Stella takes the phone and puts it down for

him. He looks at the breakfast, reaches for a knife and fork.

He begins eating, appreciatively. She moves behind his chair,

pausing to look toward Thorwald's apartment again. Jeff is

just lifting a piece of bacon to his lips when Stella speaks.

The hand carrying the bacon to Jeff's mouth hesitates for a

moment.

The hand holding the bacon moves back to the plate.

Jeff just stares ahead. Stella turns and walks into the

kitchen. Jeff pushes the food away, and picks up the coffee

cup instead.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes, over the coffee cup, are staring intently at

the backyard.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald's apartment. The shades up. No one moving.

The rope-tied trunk still sits in the bedroom.

To the left we see the basket lowering with the dog in it.

We HEAR the woman WHISTLING an aria.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

His eyes stray in an upward direction as he puts down the

coffee cup.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The CAMERA PANS UP past the woman lowering the dog, up to

the roof where one of the sunbathers can be seen sitting up,

rubbing her body with sun tan oil.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff's eyes moves down again. Abstractedly his hand strays

toward the piece of bacon. He picks it up.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald's apartment. We are now aware that the salesman is

now in his living room, lying out of sight on the sofa,

because the smoke from a newly lighted cigar is starting to

ascend toward the ceiling of his room.

Stella's voice is heard calling out from the kitchen:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Again the bacon stops before is reaches Jeff's mouth.

He puts it down on the plate again, as his eyes move slightly

toward the left.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Torso, in ballet outfit, is hanging up a small wash on

a clothes line. It consists mostly of lingerie. She is doing

her inevitable leg practice at the same time.

THE CAMERA PANS OVER SUDDENLY TO Thorwald's apartment, and

except for the smoke rising from the unseen sofa, there is

no activity.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff seems to be getting a bit listless, or bored, by

constantly watching Thorwald's apartment. His eyes sort of

stray around the neighborhood, and end up looking toward:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

The newlywed's apartment. Shade down, business as usual.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff smiles affectionately, and starts to turn his eyes away;

but something startles him, and he looks quickly back.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

The shade suddenly going up in the newlywed's apartment.

The young husband leans his hands on the windowsill, and

looks out. He is wearing only his pajama bottoms, because of

the heat, and we see that he is a well-muscled, attractive

young man. He looks around with some satisfaction. He turns

at the sound of a woman's voice behind him.

He turns his head, is thoughtful for a brief moment, then he

pulls down the shade.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

His smile almost becomes a private chuckle. Stella's abrupt

voice breaks in urgently:

Jeff's head snaps toward the center of his window.

Stella has appeared behind his wheelchair.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Two men wearing tan coveralls are standing outside Thorwald's

door. One of them carries a clipboard.

Suddenly Thorwald is seen sitting up on the living room sofa.

His hair is disheveled and he is unshaved. He stands up, and

moves toward the door.

He opens it, and after a short exchange of dialogue, he admits

the two men, leaving the door open behind them.

He leads the two man across the living room to the bedroom.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Stella and Jeff watching intently. He is feeling down

alongside his wheelchair for his binoculars.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - BINOCULAR SHOT

A close view shows the two man carrying the trunk across the

living room toward the corridor.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the binoculars quickly.

Stella moves toward the door quickly. Jeff turns quickly

over his shoulder to watch her. She is already going up the

steps.

As Stella goes out the door, she calls back:

We hear nothing from Stella, but the sound of her heavy tread

down the hallway stairs. Jeff returns to Thorwald. He eases

himself back into the shadows a bit and then raises his

binoculars.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - BINOCULAR SHOT

Jeff concentrates his attention on the alley-way that leads

to the street. Just normal traffic. The binoculars swing to

Thorwald apartment. The salesman is now at the telephone. He

has picked up the receiver, and proceeds to dial 221.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

The binoculars still up to Jeff's face. Under them his mouth

moves, as if he's talking to himself.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - BINOCULAR SHOT

The salesman speaks some words to the operator. Placing the

call. As he does this, he reaches with his other hand for a

nearly bottle, and working the cork out with one hand, he

pours a stiff drink into a tumbler. He drinks it as soon as

he finishes talking with the operator.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the binoculars a little, and takes a normal eye

sight on the alleyway.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - LONG SHOT

Pulling across to the far side of the street we see the hood

and cab of a freight truck.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff quickly puts the glasses up.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - BINOCULAR SHOT

By the time the binoculars are up, another truck has crossed

from the left. In momentarily blocks out the side of our

freight truck. By the time the two trucks part, we can only

see the back half of the freight truck before it pulls out

of sight. Jeff is only able to read the words "FREIGHT LINES".

The binoculars are held for a moment until we see a puffing

and blowing Stella arrive at the opening of the alleyway.

She looks toward the front of Thorwald's apartment house.

And by her attitude we can see that there is no truck outside.

She looks about her for a moment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the binoculars, discouraged.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - LONG SHOT

The figure of Stella is seen, looking up toward Jeff's

apartment, and arms outspread in a helpless gesture.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

SHOOTING TOWARDS the big window, with the neighborhood beyond,

Jeff is as usual seated in his wheelchair on the left of the

window, but now turned toward a newcomer.

The second man is standing near the divan looking out the

window with the binoculars. This newcomer is POLICE DETECTIVE

LIEUTENANT THOMAS J. DOYLE, the man Jeff phoned earlier in

the day. He is an intelligent-appearing, well-dressed modern

detective. He has a sense of humor. He lowers the glasses,

and turns to Jeff.

Doyle paces a little.

Doyle saunters toward steps, picking up his hat on the way.

Stops.

He goes up the steps to the door, putting on his hat.

He pauses his hand on the door knob.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff answers, showing only the slightest irritation.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle, still at the door:

He starts to go out the door, and closes it behind him.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

From Doyle's viewpoint. Jeff lifts his hand in a feeble

parting gesture.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Before the door has completely closed, Doyle opens it again,

and looks in.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

The door starts to close again, as if Doyle considered Jeff's

answer quite reasonable. Then the door pops open and Doyle's

head comes in, a surprised expression across his face.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff answers with a straight face.

We don't see Doyle again, but only HEAR the sharp slam of

the DOOR off. Jeff chuckles. Then he turns back to the window.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff's attention is drawn to something in the yard below.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The little dog is busily scratching away at Thorwald's pet

flower bed.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff smiles mischievously. Suddenly his face changes as he

sees:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald coming out of his basement door, carrying a watering

can. He fills it from a nearby faucet. He does not notice

the little dog's destructive activities.

When the watering can is filled, he straightens up, turns

toward the flower bed. He stops for the briefest moment,

when he sees the dog. He walks to the dog, gently lifts him

out of the garden, and giving him a friendly little pat,

sends him off. He proceeds to patiently brush back the

disturbed earth, and then begins his watering.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff is frankly puzzled by the salesman's friendly attitude

toward the dog. He looks off in another direction, as he

catches of:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - LONG SHOT

Doyle, who has appeared, at the street opening. The detective

is surveying the front of the apartment building where

Thorwald lives. A paper seller behind him offers to sell him

a paper. Doyle isn't interested.

As Doyle saunters forward toward the salesman house, the

scene:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - MEDIUM SHOT

Doyle is nonchalantly leaning up against the side board,

with a highball in one hand. Jeff has turned his chair around

from the window to face him.

Jeff looks thoughtful a moment, and then says, with a touch

of discouragement:

He puts down his drink, and strolls toward the window, looking

out. THE CAMERA MOVES IN slightly to tighten the shot.

Doyle becomes interested in watching something out the window.

Unconsciously he smooths out his coat and tie.

He even smiles somewhat secretly to himself at what he sees.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Torso, in ballet costume, practicing her dance on the

outside balcony. She is exciting and desirable.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - TIGHT TWO SHOT

Jeff notices Doyle's interest.

Startled at being observed, Doyle moves quickly away from

the window, affecting nonchalance. THE CAMERA MOVES BACK as

Doyle returns to his drink. Jeff smiles at catching Doyle

enjoying Miss Torso.

He tosses off the rest of the drink, and his movement is

almost a comment. Jeff's face grows serious.

Doyle quickly collects his thoughts, and gets back to the

case at hand.

He can't help smiling, and neither can Doyle.

He moves to the sideboard, picks up a felt hat.

He pulls a slip of paper out of his pocket. Jeff watches him

intently.

He looks at Jeff with some smugness.

He puts on his hat, and goes toward the door.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DAY - CLOSEUP

Jeff is sober.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - CLOSEUP

The sun has just set. THE CAMERA is concentrating on the

long-focus lens camera which fills the screen. Just beyond,

there is a plate on which a solitary sandwich.

Jeff's hand comes in, picks it up. We PAN US with the sandwich

until Jeff's head fills the screen. (Except for a small light

in the kitchen, Jeff's apartment is in darkness.) As he

munches, he keeps his attention on the neighborhood.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald's apartment is darkness. THE CAMERA PANS slightly

to the left, as we see the dog being lowered in its basket.

We follow the basket down to the yard which brings Miss Lonely

Heart's apartment into view. She is wearing a Kelly Green

suit, and is seated at her dressing table. She seems to be

putting on the final touches of her make-up, prior to going

out.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - CLOSEUP

Jeff looks down, he smiles to himself. He turns, and we see

him raise the long-focus camera to his eye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - CAMERA SHOT

The long-focus lens brings Miss Lonely Hearts into an enlarged

picture which reveals details we have not previously noticed.

A pair of ill-fitting, horn-rimmed reading glasses rest half

way down her nose, and she has to tilt her head back slightly

as she applies lip-stick, with their aid.

Satisfied, she takes off the glasses, and examines her face

as a whole, through squinting eyes. She has faded good looks,

has fairly nice clothes, but is badly in need of advice on

hair dressing. Her hair-do makes her seem middle-aged. She

reaches for a tall glass of liquor next to her, and takes a

long drink. Putting the glass down, she squints to see if

she has disturbed the lipstick. Unable to see clearly, she

puts on the glasses again, looks, and touches up her lips

slightly.

She puts her glasses in a handbag, then stands to put out

the lights. She walks into the living room, finishing the

drink. The long-focus lens moves with her. She goes straight

for a bottle of liquor, and pours out a final neat slug, and

tosses it off. Then she leaves the apartment, with a show of

determination.

She turns out the lights behind her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the long-focus lens, and turns his head to the

right as he hears the first notes of the songwriter's melody

which we have heard him trying to complete.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - MEDIUM SHOT

The songwriter is at the piano, poking out his melody, slowly,

note by note. He is in black tie, and from the looks of the

apartment he is preparing for guests. An attractive girl is

setting out trays of canapes, glasses, ice and liquor. She

pauses as she crosses the room carrying a tray of food. She

listens a moment to the songwriter's melody. Her expression

shows that it pleases her, and moves her romantically. She

comments on it to the songwriter, who starts from the

beginning again, playing it more fully.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - SEMI-CLOSEUP

A new source of music comes in to interfere with the piano

playing. It is orchestral ballet music, in a modern style.

Jeff's head turns in this new direction.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Torso, and a male partner whom we have not seen before,

are practicing a pas a deux. He is a tall flowing-haired

young man, lithe and graceful beyond normal masculine

capacity.

They stop, at one point, to listen to a word of comment from

a woman who is watching. By her gestures, she is obviously a

professional choreographer.

THE CAMERA PANS from this to the street beyond.

Standing there, on the sidewalk, looking up and down the

street is a Kelly Green clad figure.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - CLOSEUP

He quickly raises his long-focus camera to his eye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - CAMERA SHOT

We are now given a waist-high shot as the focus is adjustment

by Jeff. The figure is that of Miss Lonely Hearts. She seems

to be trying to figure out what to do, or where to go. She

nervously looks at a couple of men passers by. Getting no

reaction, she crosses the street, and seats herself at an

empty table in front of the cafe. She orders a drink.

She is suddenly blotted out by a figure of a man who enters

the picture from the left side. He is much nearer the lens,

because he is on this side of the street. He is, therefore,

slightly out of focus. The lens suddenly sharpens. It is

Thorwald, carrying a light-weight cardboard box under his

arm. THE CAMERA PANS him over to the right until he is lost

behind the building.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - SEMI-CLOSEUP

He lowers the lens, and we see Jeff's eyes travel across the

screen, as he imagines Thorwald's progression. Then sharpening

his look, he picks up the long-focus lens, and easing himself

back cautiously, begins watching Thorwald.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - CAMERA SHOT

Thorwald comes up the corridor, and stands unlocking his

door. As he hesitates, we are able to see the cardboard box

he is carrying has the name of a laundry on it. He enters

the apartment turns on the living room lights.

He proceeds to the bedroom, and the lights go on there.

A number of suits and top coats are lying on an orderly pile

on the bed. He takes the laundry out of the box and puts in

on the bed next to the suits. Then he goes to the dresser,

and instead of putting the laundry away,

he proceeds to take out the contents of the drawers --

pajamas, shirts, sox, etc. He piles these on the beds.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the camera quickly. He picks up the phone and

dials a number, still keeping his eyes on Thorwald.

The phone buzzes on filter, then is picked up and answered

by a woman:

For a moment, Jeff looks desperate. He doesn't know what to

say.

He hangs up. Then, his brows knit a little, as if he's puzzled

about something he sees across the neighborhood.

He lifts up the long-focus lens.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Early night. In the dresser Thorwald finds an alligator

handbag. He holds it up thoughtfully. We have previously

seen this handbag hanging from the bedpost when Mrs. Thorwald

was in bed. Thorwald takes the bag into the living room,

where he picks up the phone and dials.

Thorwald reaches his party. As he talks, thoughtfully, he

takes some jewelry from the handbag -- a couple of rings,

diamond wristwatch, brooch, pearls, etc. He discusses each

piece, apparently trying to make some decision. Then,

seemingly satisfied, he replaces them in the bag and hangs

up.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers his camera lens and edges his chair forward in

an effort to hear what Thorwald is saying. But a sudden rise

in the SOUND coming from the song-writer's apartment, causes

him to turn his head toward the studio with exasperation.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The first four of the song-writer's guests come through the

door, admitted by the song-writer's girl friend.

There is a squeal from the woman who great each other, and

hearty "helloes" from the men. The song-writer dashes off a

LOUD VAMP of greeting on the piano, then gets up to offer

drinks.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff turns his attention back to Thorwald, but gives up any

attempt at listening. He lift the long-focus lens up to his

eyes again.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Having completed his call, Thorwald returns to the bedroom

carrying the handbag. He goes to a pile of coats lying on

the bed. He lifts the top two coats slightly, and slides the

handbag under them and out of sight.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

There is the SOUND of footsteps coming down the corridor to

Jeff's apartment. He lowers the camera lens, and turns his

attention to his door.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The door opens, and Lisa stands silhouetted in the entrance,

black-lighted by the corridor lights. It's an attractive

picture.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff's head is turned toward her, his back more toward the

neighborhood.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff abruptly turns back to the window, as Lisa dashes into

the picture behind him, and looks out. Jeff's expression

changes a little, as they see:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The lights are out in Thorwald's bedroom, and Thorwald is in

the act of pouring himself out a drink in the living room.

He comes to the window, glass in hand, and looks down into

the garden, nonchalantly. Over this, we HEAR Lisa's voice,

questioningly:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

He stops, turns to her quickly.

Jeff turns back to the window.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald is standing at the window with his drink in his

hand. Then he turns, puts his unfinished drink down on a

table, and goes to the door. He puts the light out in the

living room and goes out the door. He walks briskly down the

corridor.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa moves toward a nearby lamp.

He picks up the long-focus lens and trains it on the street

intersection, as Lisa moves back to him.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - CAMERA SHOT - NIGHT

The street intersection. Some traffic, mostly pedestrian.

Miss Lonely Hearts still sitting at the cafe table, alone.

Drinking. There is no sign of Thorwald.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

He lowers the lens.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK as Lisa starts around the apartment

turning on the lights. As she light increases, we see that

she is wearing another extravagantly beautiful dress. She

seems quite animated, moving gracefully, her skirt and hair

swinging with her movement. Jeff turns around to face the

room.

As he talks, she seems to be thinking something over to

herself. He starts pacing, trying to distill her thoughts.

We see that she has brought an oversized handbag with her,

which lies prominently on the table.

Jeff watches her.

THE CAMERA CLOSES IN, Lisa stops, faces him. Her eyes sparkle,

and her body is tense with concentration.

THE CAMERA eases back.

She comes over to Jeff. He reaches up, takes her hand.

He pulls her into his lap. She puts her arms around him. She

is very happy, and kisses Jeff's cheek.

There's a pause. Then Jeff moves back a little to look her

straight in the eye.

She cuts him off with a kiss. When she pulls back

Lisa smothers him with another kiss. She lets up.

She smothers him with still another kiss. Then moves back.

She laughs, gets up. Goes to the large handbag on the table.

Is is a Mark Cross ladies 'attache' case.

She has opened it, and surprisingly enough, it is a compact

outfit of pajamas, slippers, toothbrush, toothpaste, and all

the general necessities for a comfortable overnight stay.

She comes to Jeff, sits in his lap again, displaying the

inside of the case

The SOUND from the party in the song-writer's apartment

becomes more noticeable as his party grows. And at this point

he begins playing the song he has been composing for the

past few days.

She gets up from Jeff's lap, and puts the overnight case on

the table. Open. She goes to the window, and looks toward

the song-writers' apartment. Jeff turns with her.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The party at the song-writer's has grow considerably larger.

An assortment of well-dressed people have now crowded into

the studio. They are drinking, eating, etc. At the moment, a

number of them are crowded around the piano, listening to

the composer's newest song -- which isn't quite completed.

However, the melody has become more beautiful than ever.

During the following scene, we HEAR the melody being played

a number of different ways on the piano.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa stands, listening, entranced.

Jeff watches her.

She sits down on the edge of the divan near Jeff. She leans

toward him.

She goes to the kitchen, humming with the song-writer's melody

which we can HER off. Jeff turns back to the window, looks

out.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The shade is going up in the newlyweds apartment. The young

husband throws up the window an lights a cigarette. He takes

a deep and satisfying drag on the cigarette, glancing toward

the song-writer's party.

Just as he starts to exhale the smoke, we HEAR his young

wife's voice off:

He chokes on the smoke, sputtering and coughing. When he

recovers, he throws the cigarette down to the back-yard with

a show of irritation. Then slowly he pulls the shade down.

Behind us is SOUND of a door shutting

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Over Jeff's shoulder we see Doyle coming down the steps

slowly, and seemingly preoccupied. Jeff swings the chair

around so that his back is to us.

SEMI-CLOSEUP

Without looking at Jeff, Doyle comes into the apartment takes

off his hat and places it on the table. He runs a hand over

the side of his head and down the back of his neck, which

seems to indicate some fatigue.

SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff. Looking expectantly at Doyle.

SEMI CLOSEUP

Doyle reaches for a cigarette on the table, and puts it to

his lips. While searching his pockets for a match, he HEARS

Lisa humming. His eyes turn upward.

MEDIUM SHOT

Over the cabinet which divides the living room from the

kitchen, we can see a glimpse of Lisa's shadow on the ceiling.

SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff, has followed Doyle's look.

SEMI CLOSEUP

Doyle picks up cigarette lighter from table, and lights his

cigarette. As he is placing the lighter back on the table,

he sees:

CLOSEUP

From his viewpoint, Lisa's bag containing her lingerie and

overnight effects.

CLOSEUP

Jeff. His eyes turn from the lingerie up to Doyle.

CLOSEUP

Doyle's look is completely noncommittal. His eyes turn at

the sound of the song-writer's party. He moves forward to

get a better view, as the CAMERA RETREATS in front of him.

He stops to glance out of the window.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The party is now full progress. The room is overcrowded. And

some people are now sitting on the floor with their backs to

the window. Others are outside. A crowd hides the piano

player, but music can be head competing with the babble.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Doyle turns his head away, and looks straight out. His

expression hardens a little, as he sees:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The window of Thorwald's apartment, completely dark.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

He also is looking toward Thorwald's apartment. He turns his

eyes anxiously back to Doyle. He seems to be trying to

penetrate Doyle's mind.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Doyle turns his head from the window, and looks down at Jeff.

He asks, quietly:

Jeff's tension eases off a little, by he is eager to talk.

Doyle looks back toward Thorwald's bedroom. We see the dark

apartment beyond him. Doyle nods thoughtfully. He turns his

head suddenly at the sound of Lisa coming out of the kitchen.

She holds two large brandy snifters containing some brandy.

They are cupped in her hand, the stem between her fingers.

She is rotating them gently toward the body to warm the

brandy. She is quite beautiful.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Doyle reacts to her appreciatively.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

She continues rotating the brandy.

She comes forward hands one snifter to Jeff. She offers the

second to Doyle. (NOTE: In the following set of scenes,

whenever anyone holds a brandy snifter, it is being rotated-

regardless of their attitudes.)

Doyle sort of smiles, and takes the snifter awkwardly.

Doyle bows his head slightly, but his eyes remain on her in

a fixed stare.

Lisa smiles in return.

She turns around, and goes right back into the kitchen.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle stares after her, ignoring her remark, still not

recovered from the fist sight of her attractiveness.

Then quickly, his eyes move down and to the left.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

The open overnight case with its displayed lingerie.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT SEMI-CLOSEUP

Slowly Doyle's eyes travel back to Jeff.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Quickly guessing what's on Doyle's mind

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle's eyes travel past Jeff to look out the window.

He still holds the brandy snifter in one hand, and a cigarette

in the other. Absentmindedly he still rotates the brandy.

The SOUND of the phone ringing is heard.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff picks up the phone.

He listens, and then looks up to Doyle.

Doyle crosses and stands behind Jeff, as Jeff hands him the

Phone. He juggles the cigarette, the brandy snifter and the

phone all at once. This is all done deadpan.

He hands the receiver back to Jeff, who hangs up. Lisa comes

back in with her own brandy snifter, rotating it.

Doyle looks suddenly interested. He asks tersely:

He turns his head to Lisa, who answers.

His head snaps back to Jeff, who answers:

His head moves back to Lisa as she answers with a touch of

pride in her voice.

Before Doyle can comment, Jeff asks impatiently:

Doyle smiles at Jeff, and then strolls over to the table

where he puts out his cigarette and puts down the brandy

snifter.

Doyle goes to the window and looks out, as they watch him,

expectantly. He speaks without looking at them.

His voice is flat and to the point.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff and Lisa stare at him in astonishment. Then Jeff

recovers, and answers with some anger:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

He spins around, and his face has lost all its friendliness.

He starts to place the room.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa and Jeff. She replies with some sarcasm.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle breaks in, takes a step forward.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff, reasoning:

Lisa cuts in spiritedly.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle starts to pace up and down, throwing out a hand in

careful explanation.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff and Lisa.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle comes up to the CAMERA, looking at Lisa.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff is resentful of Doyle's comments to Lisa.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle has turned away into the center of the room. He swings

around.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa speaks again with continuing sarcasm:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle comes toward the CAMERA again.

Doyle gives her a scathing look.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff challenges Doyle:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Doyle, with a studied, gracious gesture, to Lisa.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa answers, but very coldly:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Doyle hesitates a moment, and lets his eyes wander, to:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

The overnight case, with Lisa's lingerie.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

His eyes going back to Jeff.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff replies, pointedly:

Lisa looks down at Jeff, not comprehending.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle points to one of the photographs on the wall.

Doyle has a complete change of manner. He relaxes and smiles.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Neither Jeff or Lisa display even the slightest friendliness.

Their faces are cold and set. Then Lisa speaks, icily:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle is relaxed.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff and Lisa remain unmoved.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

A little self-conscious, Doyle checks his watch, and says

with a pleasant laugh:

He waits. No response comes across. His face sobers a little,

he reaches for his unfinished drink of brandy.

He tries to toss it off like a straight shot of liquor.

Part of it shoots out of the brandy snifter, down each side

of his face, and into his suit. He sputters a little, and

puts the glass down.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff and Lisa deadpan.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Doyle is wiping his coat lapels with a handkerchief. He looks

at them pleasantly.

He starts away toward the door.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa, still burning:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Doyle picks up his hat.

He starts up the steps to the door.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff points out a challenging finger.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Doyle poises on the step. He snaps his fingers.

He puts on his hat, smiles, and says.

He quietly closes the door behind him.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa and Jeff. Jeff turns his chair around, and looks out to

the neighborhood. Lisa stands glumly behind him.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The song-writer's party is now in full swing, and fairly

crowded. It is a happy, gay affair.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

None of the gaiety is reflected in Lisa and Jeff. Some new

music is heard coming across the courtyard and Jeff turns

toward it with some irritation.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Torso's apartment has the door closed, and all that we

can see of her, as she is lying on the divan, is her legs

swinging in arcs as she exercise to record music.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Lisa is not looking in the same direction as Jeff. All during

this, she has been staring out at Thorwald's apartment. Now

her eyes are looking at the apartment underneath. She murmurs

to Jeff:

Jeff turns his eyes in the same direction as hers.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

A light has gone on in Miss Lonely Hearts' apartment.

They look. Surprise of surprises, she has returned with a

lover hooked. He is much younger then she, and a little more

keyed up to the promise of an adventure still fresh to him.

Her actions are coy, and over-feminine.

She slips away from his hasty embraces and exploratory kisses

with the proper flush of confusion and nervous giggle that

seems to say, "It's quite a surprise you find me so desirable,

but me mustn't do anything improper, you know. After all,

we're practically strangers -- and what would you think of

me?"

She pours a drink for each of them with gestures over-genteel.

As she sips her drink and look at him over the rim of the

glass, he tosses his off with nervous dispatch.

He moves toward her, this time more cautiously. An embrace,

a long kiss. She puts her drink down on the edge of the chair.

It spills over onto the rug. He begins kissing her cheek,

her ear, her neck.

Suddenly and fiercely she pushes him away. Slaps him across

the face. He moves back with shock as she loudly and

emphatically orders him out, out, out. He flushes with anger

and embarrassment, and his mouth twists into unpleasant shapes

as he slaps degrading words back at her, telling her what

she is. She screams at him to get out. He leaves, slamming

the door behind him.

She goes back dumbly to the spilled liquor, makes a futile

effort to clean it up, and the collapses onto the rug sobbing

hard enough to shake her whole body.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa turns away from Jeff's chair to get a cigarette from

the table. She lights it, as Jeff turns his chair back to

the room.

He indicates the outside neighborhood with a movement of his

head. She doesn't answer, but studies the photographs on the

wall of his room.

Jeff starts to smile at the realization.

Jeff smile is broad, and he starts to chuckle. She relaxes

and joins him. She sits on his lap, her arms around his

shoulders.

She gets up, goes to the blinds, and proceeds to lower them

one by on.

He smiles. She goes to the table, picks up he overnight case.

She goes to the kitchen entrance, pauses.

She shrugs, goes into the kitchen, the CAMERA PANNING her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff is sitting on the wheelchair near the bar, a drink in

his hand. He starts to take a sip from the glass, when Lisa

comes out of the kitchen. She is an ethereal beauty, in sheer

peach nightgown, covered by a gossamer matching kimono. She

turns gracefully in front of Jeff.

He lowers his drink.

Jeff puts his drink on the bar. He tries to decide how to

answer her question. He can't.

Lisa holds out the folds of her kimono.

Lisa turns playfully toward the kitchen.

Blood-curdling scream from the courtyard outside suddenly

cuts through the night.

Startled, both Jeff and Lisa move quickly for the window --

Lisa lifting the blinds up. The long scream subsides into

near-hysterical sobbing.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - LONG SHOT

We get a high comprehensive view of all the apartments.

Light are going on in some windows, shades are lifted on

others, people are beginning to lean out looking for the

source of the cream and sobbing. The song-writer's party

comes to a sudden halt, as his guest crowd to the window.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa and Jeff at the window, looking out, startled.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The landlord, beneath the newlyweds, looks out. Tilting his

head up toward the center of the yard.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

A couple comes out on the high balcony to the right.

Look down.

MEDIUM SHOT

The newlywed's blinds come up, and for the first time we see

both of them at the window, the girl looking over the boy's

shoulder.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Some members of the song-writer's party move out to the patio-

balcony, to get a better look down in the yard.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The bird woman comes to the window. Her white face looks

forward toward the center of the courtyard.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Torso, pulling a around her, comes out onto her porch,

and looks to her left.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Hearing aid comes quickly into her backyard.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The couple who own the dog are standing on their fire escape.

They are both looking down, but while the husband is quiet,

the wife is holding her hands to the side of her head, sobbing

loudly. We have heard her sobbing since the moment of the

scream which she uttered.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lying near the sidewalk in the backyard below the couple's

fire escape, is the silent body of the little dog they own.

Miss Lonely Hearts comes running out of the basement door.

She goes directly to the dog, picks it up in her arms. Then

she slowly turns and looks up at the sobbing woman above

her.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Instead of increasing her sobbing, this news quiets,

momentarily, the woman who owned the dog. Her hands go down

to the railing of the fire escape, gripping it fiercely. She

lifts her face to the neighborhood, her lips set and her

eyes burning. Her chest moves convulsively from the crying.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The guests at the song-writer's party begin to move silently

back to the studio apartment.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The people move off their balcony into the apartment.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The woman almost screams at the people now, as she looks up

at the apartment.

She breaks out sobbing anew, and returns to her apartment

and out of sight, the crying growing fainter with her retreat.

The husband leans over the fire-escape, and motions Miss

Lonely Hearts to place the dog in the basket, which is already

lowered.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Lonely Hearts puts the dog in the basket, and watches

as the husband draws it slowly up.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The bathing beauties go inside their apartment.

MEDIUM SHOT

The newlyweds draw their shades again.

MEDIUM SHOT

The landlord moves away from the window.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The dog moves closer to the fire escape, slowly, the husband

pulling the rope in hand over hand.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Torso goes back to her apartment.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Hearing Aid turns down the volume of her hearing aid

and goes back to her apartment.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The dog reaches the fire escape, and the husband tenderly

takes it out of the basket. He turns to carry it's into the

apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff and Lisa are at the window. He is holding on of hands.

Jeff speaks without looking up.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald's apartment. It is dark. The only light that can be

seen in it is the glowing end of a cigar in the center of

the room, back from the window -- as if Thorwald was sitting

quietly on his sofa, smoking.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa looks down at Jeff.

He nods solemnly and then turns back to the window, as both

he and Lisa look again towards

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald's apartment. Still dark, and only the unmoving glow

of a cigar showing in the center of the apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff, Stella and Lisa are grouped at the window, looking

out. THE CAMERA is behind them. Jeff holds the long-focus

lens to his eye.

EXT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - CAMERA SHOT

We wee the upper part of the bedroom window, belonging to

Thorwald.

The lower part of the window is covered by a wall. In the

bathroom, Thorwald is wiping the enameled wall with a damp

cloth. He rubs at particular spots now and then.

Over this we hear:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - MEDIUM SHOT

We now see their faces. Jeff lowers the camera with a long-

focus lens. Neither he nor Lisa make any comment.

Finally Stella blurts out:

Lisa turns away from the window.

Stella also turns, interrupting her

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - CLOSEUP

Jeff, who is still staring out the window, has a look of

sudden discovery on his face. He calls quickly:

He turns halfway around, and points. We see Lisa moving behind

him toward the shelf. He adds:

He turns back to the window, holding out his right hand to

the side, waiting for the box and viewer. The CAMERA PULLS

BACK a little as Lisa comes up, and places the box and viewer

in his hand. He opens the box, which contains color slides,

and holds one or two of the slides up to the light. Lisa

looks down at him curiously and Stella comes forward from

the background.

Puts the other slides to one side and puts the selected one

onto the viewer, with sounds of satisfaction. As he lifts

the viewer to his eyes Lisa asks impatiently:

He squints out through the viewer, then looks away a moment

without it.

He looks back through the viewer.

He takes the viewer from his eye, hands it to Lisa.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - CLOSEUP

Lisa raises the viewer to her eye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - CLOSEUP

Through the viewer we see the identical view out of the

window.

The viewer moves away, and we are left with the identical

scene, but not quite so still, a slight breeze stirring the

foliage.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff looks up to a puzzled Lisa.

They all lean forward to look.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - MEDIUM SHOT

The flower bed. The flowers have a slight dip in the center.

Jeff speaks off:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - MEDIUM SHOT

All three ease back in awe. Lisa, still looking out, says:

Suddenly Stella begins to chuckle. They look around at her.

Her face sobers as she answers their unasked question:

Jeff and Lisa slowly turn their heads to look out at the

garden.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK - SEMI-LONG SHOT

The garden again with its small indentation of flowers over

this we hear the ghoulish voice of Stella:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - DUSK - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff looks at Stella.

Halfway through Lisa's speech, Jeff begins speaking.

THE CAMERA EASES BACK to allow Lisa to sit on the divan, and

Jeff turn his chair toward her. Stella still look out the

window, thinking.

Stella's quiet voice brings him to a halt.

Jeff whips back to the window; Lisa turns to look.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald, in the bedroom, methodically folding a suit into a

suitcase. Another suitcase, unopened, is visible.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff is staring out, gripping his chair tightly. There is a

touch of desperation on his face. He looks down at the

flowers, briefly, then swings around abruptly. He wheels

away from the camera to the wall cabinet. We see him take a

piece of notepaper, a pencil and an envelope.

He puts a name on the envelope, and then proceeds to write

something on the sheet of paper. Stella and Lisa edge up

behind him, and look down at what he is writing.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

THE CAMERA RUSHES DOWN over Jeff's shoulder, just in time to

catch the last word as he finishes writing the message. The

envelope is addressed to "LARS THORWALD."

The massage reads, simply, "WHAT HAVE YOU DONE WITH HER?"

FADE IN:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff at the window, looking through the long-focus lens.

We get a glimpse of Stella behind him. He is watching:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

The alleyway and street. Just regular traffic.

Suddenly Lisa comes into the picture from the left. She is

carrying a white envelope. She stops, waves her hands at

Jeff, smiles, and then hurries on. The lens slowly pans to

the right and stops on Miss Torso's apartment. She is standing

on a small stepladder, nailing curtains above her window.

Her legs are bare, though she wears high-heel shoes. We do

not see more than half-way up her thighs. The lens takes

this in for the briefest split-second of hesitancy then moves

on to await the arrival of Lisa along Thorwald's corridor.

She does not appear yet. The lens moves back to get another

glimpse of Miss Torso, who is now descending the ladder. She

is wearing a leotard. Over this, we hear Stella's voice:

The lens quickly swings back to Thorwald's corridor.

Lisa is seen turning the corner, and approaching Thorwald's

door on tiptoe.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the long-focus lens to get a more comprehensive

view of Thorwald's apartment and corridor outside.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa approaches the door of Thorwald's apartment. The salesman

comes into the living room. He finds a package of cigarettes,

extracts one, and lights it. Lisa kneels down, and carefully

slides the letter under the door.

At this moment, Thorwald extinguishes the match, tosses it

into an ashtray, and turns toward the door. He freezes as he

sees the letter on the floor. This momentary hesitation allows

Lisa to straighten up, turn, and walk carefully but swiftly,

away. Thorwald moves rapidly toward the door. He bends down,

scoops up the letter, and examines it briefly. Lisa is just

turning out of sight at the end of the corridor, as Thorwald

throws open the door. He looks and sees no one. He takes a

few questioning steps down the corridor, then stops to examine

the letter again. Slowly he turns and makes his way back to

the apartment, tearing open the envelope.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lifts the long-focus lens to his eyes again. His

expression is tense.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Thorwald stops in front of his door to read the note.

There is some curiosity on his face. As he reads, all movement

and emotion drain from his body. He stands there, frozen.

Jeff's voice is heard over:

Suddenly Thorwald turns and dashes down the corridor.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff whips the long-focus lens from his eye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

As Thorwald dashes down the corridor, we hear Jeff's voice.

He cries out instinctively, but almost to himself:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Both Stella and Jeff frantic.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa suddenly appears at the ground floor door below

Thorwald's. She hides, pressing back against the wall tensely.

In the corridor above, Thorwald returns, frustrated. He comes

out onto the fire escape directly above Lisa. She is aware

of him, and immediately retreats into the doorway. She

disappears down the lower corridor, as Thorwald searches his

fire escape.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

There is a sigh of relief from both of them.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald is now passing through the living room into the

bedroom. He picks up a shirt and puts it on. He then returns

to packing his suitcases, moving unhurriedly.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff rubs his chin thoughtfully. Stella is scanning the

neighborhood. We hear a radio, or a television show, off;

and there is distant, rhythmic music coming from the cafe on

Thorwald's street.

Stella's brow knits a little as she sees something. She

reaches for the long focus lens.

Jeff hands it to her.

She lifts it to her eye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Miss Lonely Hearts' apartment. She has opened a small brown

bottle, and taken out four red capsules which she places on

the white table cloth of her little table.

There is a candle burning in a holder, and other lamps also

light the apartment. She is dressed in sedate street clothes.

She sits at the table, and by the light of the candle proceeds

to open a black-covered book, and read it. The print is fine.

She bends over it a moment, looks up at the capsules, and

returns to the book. She seems quite at peace. Stella and

Jeff are heard over:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Stella lowers the long-focus lens.

The door bursts open, and they both turn quickly toward the

entrance.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa comes in, panting and flushed. She stands a second at

the door, catching her breath, but smiling with the pleasure

of sampling danger and escaping unharmed.

She comes down the stairs.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

As Lisa comes up to the two of them.

Lisa comes close to Jeff, speaks warmly.

He takes her hands.

Some of the pleasure goes out of her face. Stella notices

it.

It relieves the slight friction, as both Jeff and Lisa laugh.

Lisa happens to look toward the window, and the laugh dies.

Jeff and Stella turn toward the window. Jeff grabs the long-

focus lens, lifts it up.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Thorwald has the new alligator bag belonging to his wife, in

his hand. He moves slowly across the bedroom, out of sight

behind the door. He doesn't appear in the living room. In a

moment he reappears, moving back to his packing. He puts the

handbag into one of the suitcases -- the one which he has

almost completed filling. He goes on with his packing.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff puts down the long-focus lens, and turns around toward

the room. The two women watch him expectantly.

Stella lifts her left hand, and looks fondly at her ring

finger.

Jeff looks at them aghast.

Stella grows a little uneasy. Her eyes drift toward Thorwald's

apartment.

Lisa moves for the phone book on the stand near the kitchen.

Lisa hands him the book.

Jeff looks for Thorwald's number in the directory.

The two women smile. Jeff picks up the phone and dials Chelsea

2-7099. The women watch him tensely. He holds the receiver

away from his ear a little, and the buzzer is heard sounding

on filter. Lisa looks toward Thorwald's apartment; then

Stella; then Jeff.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald's apartment. He comes out of the bedroom toward the

phone. He wears a light summer coat and tie, despite the

heat. In the bedroom, everything is packed with the exception

of one open suitcase. We see another suitcase, his sample

case, and a couple of topcoats across the bed. He approaches

the phone hesitantly, undecided whether or not to answer it.

Quickly Thorwald does pick it up.

There is a pause as Thorwald gropes for an answer. We can

almost hear his breathing.

He hangs up before Thorwald can reply. Thorwald looks at the

receiver a moment, then he slowly hangs up. He stands at the

phone thinking. He doesn't suspect he is being watched through

the window. Then he makes up his mind and starts for the

door. After he goes out he tests the door to make certain it

is locked.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff turns his wheelchair halfway around as Lisa and Stella

start quickly for the door, THE CAMERA PANNING THEM across

the room. They pause at the sound of Jeff's voice.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff calls after them:

The door slams off and we hear the footsteps of the women

dying down the corridor as Jeff picks up the long-focus lens

and takes a sight on the alleyway.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Thorwald goes past the alley opening.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff puts down the lens and wheels quickly to the wall

cabinet. He finds a box of flash bulbs and a reflector.

He puts them in his lap and returns to the window, putting

the chair sideways. He leans out a little and looks down.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Lisa is in the courtyard directly below Jeff's window.

She has reached the stairway leading up and to the right.

She looks, waves at Jeff as Stella comes up to her carrying

a shovel. The two women hurry up the stairs toward the iron

ladder they will use to climb the wall between Jeff's yard

and that of Thorwald's.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Jeff picks up the phone and quickly dials. The buzzer sounds

on filter, then the phone is lifted. A woman's voice is heard

and Jeff seems a little puzzled at the sound of it.

He squints out the window.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa has climbed over the wall and is helping Stella down

into Thorwald's yard. The shovel is lying on the ground beside

Lisa. Jeff's conversation continues over the action of the

two women.

Jeff hangs up. Stella is now beginning to dig, carefully

lifting the flowers off the center of the bed where they had

dipped down. She places the flower plants on the sidewalk.

Lisa stands facing Jeff's window and occasionally glances

over her shoulder uneasily at Stella's work.

At this moment, the sounds of musical instruments begin to

be heard from the songwriter's apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

A little annoyed at the interruption, Jeff turns to look at

the studio apartment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

In the songwriter's apartment, several of his musician friends

have gathered. One plays a guitar, another a clarinet, and

so on. One by one they try out the theme of the songwriter's

new melody, running through it in turn to become familiar

with the notes. We, therefore, hear the melody played

informally in different ways with different instruments.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff shifts his eyes from the songwriter's apartment back to

the courtyard.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Stella is busy, expertly handling the shovel. Lisa has her

back to the nurse, but looks apprehensively over her shoulder.

She then looks up toward Jeff's apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff gives her an encouraging little gesture with his hand.

Then his eyes lift a little as he looks up.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Lonely Hearts is sitting on the sofa, writing a note

with a pad on her knee. Next to her, on the table, the pills

are still in evidence.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff picks up the long-focus lens and trains it on the

alleyway.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

The alleyway and street intersection, with normal night

traffic, but no sign of Thorwald. THE CAMERA LENS PANS across

and down to the hole being dug by Stella. We get an impression

of Lisa's legs as we go by. The spade comes out of the hole

and rests on the side. THE CAMERA LENS PANS up just in time

to catch Stella turning up to Jeff. She throws out a helpless

hand and shakes her head. "Nothing."

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff lowers the lens and looks down at the two women with

evident disappointment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa glances up to Thorwald's apartment. She turns and

gestures some instructions to Stella. Then she looks up at

Jeff and gestures her intention to enter Thorwald's apartment.

She turns and dashes toward Thorwald's fire escape as Stella

makes a fruitless grab to restrain her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff, shocked and alarmed, calls out:

He looks quickly toward the intersection and then right back

to Lisa. Apparently no sight of Thorwald.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

While Lisa starts up the fire escape, we see Stella running

toward the wall in the foreground to climb over it. Stella

has abandoned the shovel and left the flowers and dirt strewn

over the walk.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff, tense and wide-eyed, watches Lisa climb the fire escape.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa climbs the fire escape to the second floor and the

outside of Thorwald's apartment.

She tries, unsuccessfully, to get through the window which

opens into the kitchen from the fire escape. And then, with

some difficulty, stretches and succeeds in getting in through

the living room window, which is open. She goes directly to

the bedroom and we see her bending over one of the suitcases.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Jeff quickly picks up the long-focus lens and trains it on

the salesman's apartment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Lisa turns from the suitcase with the alligator handbag in

her hand. There is an expression of triumph on her face. She

opens it and her expression changes to dismay. She looks

toward Jeff's apartment and, to communicate her dismay, she

turns the handbag upside down. Nothing falls out. Empty.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

He lowers the long-focus lens and he is sweating with anxiety.

He mutters, almost to himself:

His eyes turn quickly to the alleyway and back again to Lisa.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Lisa has dropped the bag on the bed and is now looking around

the bedroom, looking for some place to start searching for

the jewelry. She moves quickly to the dresser and begins

opening the drawers to check them.

She finds nothing.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

As Jeff watches tensely, the door bursts open behind him and

Stella hurries into the apartment.

Jeff swings toward Stella. He reaches for the phone.

As he picks up the receiver, Stella pushes his hand down

again.

Stella looks out the window and her face registers shock.

Jeff turns quickly to the window again, forgetting the phone

for the moment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Miss Lonely Hearts is in the act of popping an envelope up

against the table lamp on the table next to the sofa.

From the same table, she takes a pill bottle and empties the

contents into her left hand. Replacing the bottle, she picks

up a glass of water.

We hear the sound of the receiver picked up, and Jeff starting

to dial New York Police. At this moment, from the song-

writer's apartment which has been quiet for a while, comes a

new burst of melody. It is the melody which the song-writer

has been composing during the past few days. Now it is rich,

and full, and completed, as the musical group plays it. Miss

Lonely Hearts lifts her head to listen, and slowly lowers

the pills and glass of water into her lap, her whole purpose

arrested by the beauty of what she hears.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff and Stella turn for a quick glimpse of the song-writer's

apartment.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

A quick flash of the song-writer's apartment, and his musical

group gathered around the piano.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff and Stella look back to Thorwald's apartment. Jeff has

the receiver to his ear, and the buzzer can be heard on

filter.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

At the bottom of the picture, Miss Lonely Hearts is still

listening to the music, while in the apartment above Lisa

appears into the living room from behind the doorway that

leads to the bedroom. She looks across to the source of the

music. She is as arrested by the melody as Miss Lonely Hearts.

Then looking across to Jeff, she holds up her hands

triumphantly to show him the jewelry she has discovered. At

this point, Thorwald appears coming along the corridor of

his apartment house! Lisa is completely unaware of his

approach.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Stella is so shocked, she can only gasp for breath.

Jeff, in near panic, shouts in anguish!

At this moment, the phone is picked up on filter, and a voice

speaks:

Jeff opens his mouth to speak, but no words come out, as his

attention is focused on:

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald at the door, unlocking it with his key. We see that

Lisa has heard the sound, and looks toward the door, all but

frozen with alarm. The Policeman on the phone repeats with

studied irritation:

Lisa dashes back into the bedroom just in time to avoid being

seen by Thorwald as he opens the door and enters the

apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff, urgently into phone, with a serious and rapid voice:

Phone is down on filter, and Jeff replaces his receiver.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald crosses the living room, and goes into the bedroom.

Suddenly he looks onto the bed. He picks up the open alligator

handbag. He turns, facing the window, looking down at the

bag. He looks up in the direction of the living room. Then

suddenly his whole frame stiffens, his head turns a little

further around to his right. He is looking directly at Lisa

who is out of our sight in the corner of the bedroom. He

holds out the bag, and without moving, starts to question

the unseen Lisa. He takes a little step forward, and his

head begins to turn slightly to the left as Lisa begins to

emerge into the living room, backing away slowly. By her

gestures, and nervous laughter, she appears to be offering a

lame excuse for being found in his apartment.

He comes towards her, and enters the living room as well.

Lisa edging toward the door, points to it as she apparently

argues with him as to the way she came in.

He points to the window. She makes one more step toward the

door, but Thorwald reaches out quickly and grabs her by the

wrist. He twists it brutally, and flings her sideways into

the sofa beneath the window. Her head snaps back against the

head rest. With his right hand he throws the handbag across

the room in anger, and with his left open-palmed he demands

something from Lisa.

Slowly her right hand comes up and opens.

He takes the jewelry from her, looks at it for a surprised

moment, puts it into his coat pocket. He reaches down with

both hands, and by the wrists jerks her to her feet. He is

talking viciously to her. We can hear Lisa calling out

faintly: "Jeff! Jeff!"

Thorwald suddenly looks out at the neighborhood. He realizes

that somebody might be watching him. He drags her across the

room, reaches up with one arm, and the lights go off. The

faint light from the bedroom illuminates their struggle, but

not clearly.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

An angry Jeff is staring, and trying to penetrate the semi-

darkness of Thorwald's room. Then he bends his head forward

in despair, and after a brief moment speaks:

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Stella staring out, tense, frightened. Then her expression

changes sharply as she looks slightly to the left.

Jeff looks up quickly.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Two policemen move quickly and professionally up the corridor

toward Thorwald's apartment. They stop at the door, listen a

moment, and then push the buzzer insistently. Inside the

apartment, lights go on, and Thorwald is in the center of

the room looking toward the door. Lisa staggers away from

him, trying to rearrange her clothes and her hair. She is as

surprised at the interruption as Thorwald. He listens, looks

back questioningly toward Lisa, then goes to the door. He

passes into the kitchen.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff and Stella visibly relax. Jeff doesn't say anything,

but a gesture of rubbing his eyes with the back of his hand

gives an indication of how deep his tension was.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

After a moment's hesitation, Thorwald goes to the door and

opens it.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff quickly puts a hand out and takes up his long-focus

lens. He looks through the finder.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

Thorwald's head and shoulders fill the screen. For a moment

Thorwald is genuinely frightened by the sight of the police.

We see him listening to the policeman out of the picture.

Thorwald turns slowly and we see him lose much of his fright

and regain some control of his face. He completes his turn

and is looking at the girl a little puzzled. He then swings

back toward the police.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

A quick flash of Jeff and Stella looking. Jeff still has the

long-focus lens to his eye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald is displaying indignation and complaint to the police

as he nods his head vigorously toward Lisa. At this the police

start to advance into the apartment, going directly for Lisa.

She flashes a quick look toward Jeff's window. She turns

back as the first policeman reaches her. He starts to question

her.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Stella turns away and goes quickly to the table for the

binoculars. Jeff still is using the long-focus lens.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - BINOCULAR SHOT

We see Lisa start to excuse her presence in the same manner

she used with Thorwald previously, as if to say she came

into the apartment by mistake. Thorwald, listening, comes

quickly forward to contradict her, vigorously. He holds out

the jewelry in his hand, and then picks up and shows the

empty handbag. The policeman, impressed, looks back to Lisa

for an explanation. She has none. Over this we hear Stella

frantically asking:

The first policeman indicates that Lisa is to come along

with him. He pauses momentarily to tell the second policeman

to take a statement from Thorwald about the attempted

burglary. The second policeman reaches for the jewelry in

Thorwald's hand, and takes it for examination. In the brief

pause while the two policemen speak to each other, Lisa starts

to wave her left hand behind her back.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff looking through his camera.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CAMERA SHOT

We get a closer view of the waving hand. She stops waving

and holds her fingers spread out. With her other hand she

points to the wedding ring on her left hand.

THE LENS PANS UPWARD AND ACROSS until it brings Thorwald's

profile into the picture. He is looking down directly at

Lisa's hands. His head slowly turns, and he looks right up --

directly into the lens. Suddenly he becomes aware that Lisa

is signaling to someone who is watching him.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff and Stella. He drops the camera into his lap.

Stella hurries from the window, turning off lights, as Jeff

backs his chair into the room.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

As Thorwald's attention is drawn back to the second policeman

to answer further questions, the first policeman takes Lisa

by the arm and leads her out of the apartment. He goes down

the corridor pushing the curious people away from the door.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The last light out, Stella stops to catch her breath, and

turns to Jeff.

Jeff points to a drawer in the wall cabinets.

Stella moves to get it.

She finds a billfold, hands it to Jeff. He takes it, extracts

some bills and begins counting them. As he counts, Stella

comments:

He looks up sharply at her, and then without comment goes

back to counting the money.

Stella, following his pointing finger, gets a piggy bank

down from a shelf on the sideboard. He takes it, cracks it

on the knee of his cast. It splits open, and some money comes

out. Mostly bills, a few silver halves.

What he doesn't get, Stella picks up.

Jeff does, as Stella gets her purse.

Stella goes up to the door. The phone RINGS. Jeff grabs it,

picks it up. Stella pauses.

Stella goes quickly out the door. He returns to the phone

call, glancing at the same time toward the courtyard.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - LONG SHOT

We see Thorwald leave his apartment and proceed down the

corridor.

He hangs up, and just as he does, Jeff looks toward Thorwald's

apartment. He rolls forward to the window.

He seems a little puzzled by what he sees.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Thorwald's apartment. Completely dark. No movement, or glow

of a cigar. The corridor outside lighted, but empty.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Jeff scratches the side of his chin, studies Thorwald's

apartment as if he might see some small clue as to where the

salesman is. He looks toward the intersection to his left.

Apparently he sees nothing. He turns to look down into the

garden.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Miss Lonely Hearts is standing in the yard outside her

apartment, looking up to the porch of Miss Torso. The ballet

dancer is in high heels and a fresh summer dress.

She indicates the song-writer's apartment. Miss Lonely Hearts

turns, looks up at the studio apartment a moment, then looks

up at Miss Torso.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSE SHOT

He sits quietly a moment, thinking. Suddenly he jumps a little

as the phone rings. He reaches for it, picks up the receiver.

Slowly he looks up toward Thorwald's apartment. Then, back

to the receiver. On filter, a receiver can be heard carefully

being replaced. Jeff slowly lowers the phone into the cradle.

He looks once more toward Thorwald's apartment. Then he turns

his chair around quickly and looks toward the door to his

apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The door. Quiet in the apartment, and in the corridor.

Light showing beneath the door from the hall light.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSE SHOT

Jeff watching, waiting, nervous at first. He reaches for the

phone, changes his mind. He looks around for some kind of a

weapon, finds none to suit him. He hears the slightest squeak

of a floorboard, and looks quickly toward the door again.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The door. Another squeak of a floorboard, so light and quickly

passing that at any other time it would have no significance,

even if it could be heard. Then the light beneath the door

disappears. Black.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSE SHOT

Jeff squints at the door, blinks, squints again.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The door. No doubt about it, black.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

He looks again for a weapon, and almost by instinct he

snatches up his flash holder and the small packet of bulbs

he had taken out to signal Lisa earlier. He tries to move

his wheelchair farther into the shadows. His eyes are glued

to the door of his apartment, and his senses are sharp as a

hunting dog's. He scarcely breathes.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Only the slightest sound is heard as the doorknob turns.

The door slowly and carefully swings open, but the corridor

is too dark to tell at first who is entering.

The door closes just as quietly. From the shadowed recess

comes a heavy voice. A threatening voice.

Jeff doesn't answer. Thorwald steps to the top of the stairs,

and is now somewhat visible. He looks tall and huge and

explosive.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff doesn't answer. His eyes watch Thorwald. He licks his

lip with nervous tension and grips the flash holder.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Thorwald comes down the two steps, pauses at the bottom.

Jeff doesn't answer.

He moves forward a couple of steps.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff still doesn't speak. He grips the flash holder a little

more tightly, lifts it just the fraction of an inch as if he

is prepared to use it.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Thorwald has advanced to the middle of the room, his eyes on

Jeff and his hands clenching with the effort to control his

anger.

He advances a step.

Thorwald starts to move threateningly for Jeff.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

From a three-quarter angle toward Thorwald. Jeff lifts the

flash holder to face level and closes his eyes. He explodes

the flash.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Thorwald's face fills the screen registering shock, confusion.

He throws up his hands for protection and recoils, making an

involuntary sound of surprise.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A vision of Jeff and the apartment as seen by Thorwald.

It is distorted and out of focus, filled with large twisting

balls of bright yellow color.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Thorwald blinking, trying to regain his sight.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Jeff ejects the used bulb and quickly inserts another.

He works furiously, sweating. He gets the bulb in the flash

holder just in time to meet Thorwald coming at him. Jeff

closes his eyes and another bulb explodes in Thorwald's face.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Thorwald's face, full screen again, as he recoils from the

flash.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The apartment as seen by Thorwald again. Big, twisting balls

of blinding yellow.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Thorwald stumbles back against the side table, knocking

objects off onto the floor, struggling for balance and sight.

Jeff works rapidly to put a fresh bulb in the holder.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Thorwald regains his equilibrium and some of his sight.

Orienting himself, he starts for Jeff again. This time, when

the flash holder goes off, we see it from Jeff's angle.

Thorwald is lighted almost white, shockingly outlining every

detail of his face, clothes, hands. His rage and frustration

are fixed for a brief but terrifying moment. He stumbles

backward again, trying to brush the light away from his face

almost as if it were a solid enveloping substance.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Jeff ejects a bulb, puts his last bulb into the flash holder.

He tries to move the wheelchair a little further away from

Thorwald. Then he raises the flash holder again.

In b.g. we see: Doyle, Lisa, Stella and the detectives come

to Thorwald's door, try it. Locked.

One of the men steps forward with a flat steel jimmy and

snaps the lock open. They move quickly into the darkened

apartment. Doyle hits the lights inside the kitchen. The

group goes into the living room. The lights go on. No sign

of Thorwald. Doyle, Lisa and Stella instinctively turn and

look toward Jeff's apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

From Thorwald's apartment shooting at Jeff's window. A sudden

bright flash is seen as the last flash bulb goes off. And it

lights the scene of Jeff in the wheelchair and Thorwald diving

through the air at him. Darkness rushes in, blacker than

before.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Thorwald has finally reached Jeff, knocking the flash

equipment out of his hands and coming to grips with him.

It is apparent that he is trying to pull Jeff out of the

wheelchair. Jeff fights him off.

The wheelchair crashes over, spilling Jeff to the floor.

Thorwald is on top of him, lifting, dragging him to the

window. Jeff grabs everything he can to keep himself away

from the window, but Thorwald is far too powerful for him.

He strains to raise Jeff to the windowsill.

Slowly, inexorably, he raises Jeff to the windowsill.

Jeff frantically grabs for the upright window frame, wrapping

his arms around it. Thorwald shoves the rest of his body

over the windowsill.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Doyle, Lisa, Stella and the two detectives, crossing

Thorwald's yard, see Jeff going out the window. Lisa is

panicked.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM LONG SHOT

From Doyle's viewpoint, Jeff hanging out the window and

Thorwald hammering at his hands and arms with bare fists.

Doyle pushes Lisa to one side and starts to scale the wall,

preceded by the two detectives.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Thorwald fights to dislodge Jeff's grip.

EXT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CLOSE SHOT

Looking down on Jeff's face, showing his strain and the pain

of Thorwald's attack. The brick floor of the patio seems a

hundred feet below.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Thorwald and Jeff struggling.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Doyle pulling himself to the top of the wall. Lisa, Stella

and the two men below, looking up. Lisa is white-faced and

frightened.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Thorwald smashes at Jeff's arms and hands. Jeff's grip begins

to slip.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Doyle reaches the top of the wall, looks up at Jeff.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM LONG SHOT

Jeff, as seen from Doyle's angle, hanging, somehow weathering

Thorwald's insane attack.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Doyle reaches for his service revolver. He doesn't have it!

He looks down, and calls one of the detectives back.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Looking down at the two detectives from Doyle's point of

view. Creel grabs for his gun expertly. The holster breaks

away. It is in his hand and with a deft movement he tosses

it upward.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Doyle catches it, turns up to Jeff's apartment.

INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Thorwald still trying to loosen Jeff's grip. The salesman,

in a complete, wild, sweating rage, is beyond all reason.

His glasses hang from one ear, his coat is torn, his tie

pulled to one side.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM LONG SHOT

Shooting over Doyle's shoulder as he steadies himself against

the wall, lifting the service revolver up for a shot at

Thorwald. His aim is careful, slow, painfully deliberate.

Jeff seems about to fall.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

The two detectives ahead of Doyle are moving up below the

window. Lisa stand looking up, her hands at the sides of her

head, frozen with panic.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

Two detectives appear behind Thorwald and grab him. The

startled Thorwald stops his attack on Jeff as he looks wildly

around to find the source of his new attack.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - CLOSEUP

Jeff, hanging from the window frame. He claws desperately

for a hold.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - COMPREHENSIVE SHOT

People rush to their windows, looking out at the excitement.

Some people on the ground floor come out into the yard. Doyle

and the two detectives come into the patio beneath Jeff.

Doyle directs them to improvise something to break Jeff's

fall -- leaves, greenery, their coats, cushions from the

patio furniture -- anything they can find. The four uniformed

policemen rush into the backyard. Lisa and Stella come over

the wall into the patio beneath Jeff. They look up at Jeff,

encouraging him to hold on.

A detective goes into Jeff's cellar door, trying to reach

his apartment before Jeff loses his grip.

The siffleuse and her husband are standing on the fire escape

in plain, almost somber clothes. They watch expressionlessly.

Beneath them the empty basket which once held their dog swings

silently in the night air.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - MEDIUM SHOT

Jeff, hanging from his windowsill. He loses his grip and

plunges down into the patio below. Two detectives throw

themselves beneath him. They are knocked to the ground as

Jeff's fall tumbles both of them. After Jeff hits, he lies

still, twisted over to one side.

Doyle and Lisa rush over to Jeff. There is an audible

SOUND of shock in the neighborhood as Jeff has fallen --

various oh's, ah's, and possibly a stifled scream or two.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSE SHOT

Lisa kneels down, cradles Jeff's head in her lap. There are

tears in her eyes. Her clothes are disheveled and her dress

torn. Her hair is disarranged. But withal, her face is as

beautiful as ever, with love.

He opens his eyes. Winces with pain.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT

At that moment, a man appears leaning out of Jeff's window.

He looks down to the patio.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT - SEMI-CLOSEUP

Stella tugs at Doyle's arm and stands on tiptoe to whisper

something into his ear. Doyle then looks up to the detective.

Doyle turns quizzically at Stella.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY - PAN SHOT

Beginning on Jeff's window thermometer, the CAMERA PANS FROM

RIGHT TO LEFT around the neighborhood.

In the songwriter's apartment we see the songwriter with a

guest -- Miss Lonely Hearts. Both in dress and manner she

seems quite happy and adjusted to life. The songwriter is

placing the first recording of his new song on a record player

for her to hear. It is a full symphonic arrangement which is

heard over.

CONTINUE TO PAN

Thorwald's apartment is empty, stripped of its furnishings.

Two painters are repainting the walls.

The siffleuse and her husband are on their fire escape,

training a new white dog to ride in their basket.

Miss Torso is practicing her ballet again. She wears a white

leotard. The sound of someone at the door interrupts her.

She goes to the door, opens it an inch or two cautiously.

When she sees who is outside, she throws open the door. An

innocuous, unhandsome and somewhat shy army private enters

with a barracks bag slung over one shoulder. She kisses him

fondly after closing the door. He puts down the barracks

bag, tosses his hat into a chair and, with the attitude of a

man who belongs there, goes to the icebox to see what's to

eat.

The newlyweds are arguing.

The CAMERA PANS past Jeff who is asleep in his wheelchair

facing away from the window. CAMERA MOVES DOWN to the lower

part of his body and we see that both his legs are now in

casts. The CAMERA LIFTS SLIGHTLY to show Lisa sitting on the

sofa nearby. She wears Levis and a plaid cotton shirt. She

is reading a book on travel. She looks up briefly at Jeff.

When she realizes he is asleep, she puts down the travel

book and reaches for the latest copy of Harper's Bazaar. She

settles down to study it as we

