Watson takes out the two men. He is more of a brawler,

using headbutts, knees, and elbows. Less artful, but no

less effective.

Thugs dispatched, Holmes and Watson look down and see a

chilling sight.

A WOMAN IN WHITE LIES INSIDE A CRUDELY-PAINTED PENTACLE

(five-sided figure), lit with candles at each corner.

Her eyes roll back in her head, trance-like. A sword has

been placed at her feet.

A HOODED FIGURE KNEELS INSIDE A DOUBLE CIRCLE next to the

pentacle. This is LORD BLACKWOOD. We do not yet see his

face.

ANOTHER HOODED FIGURE stands on the edge of the ceremony,

shrouded in shadow. We do not see his face.

Suddenly, the woman rises up like a broken puppet, as if

pulled to her feet by invisible hands.

Some kind of ritual is about to climax.

Holmes and Watson head down, fast, not caring if they

make a noise or not. Their footsteps echo.

INT. CATHEDRAL CRYPTS

The second hooded figure moves back and melts into the

shadows.

Still kneeling, still hooded, Blackwood chants softly,

Latin incantation repeating and repeating.

ON THE WOMAN as her lips start to move in time with the

incantation. This is spooky, real, powerful stuff.

Holmes and Watson leap from the stairs to Blackwood's

level.

Blackwood simply ignores them.   The Latin incantation

never stops.

Holmes is closer to the girl, Watson closer to Blackwood.

The girl bends with alarming and mechanical suddenness,

picks up the sword and turns it on herself, ready to

plunge the point into her heart.

Holmes lunges, grabs the woman's arm, disarms her and

pulls her out of the pentacle. She collapses.

Simultaneously and eerily the candles extinguish and a

rush of air departs the tunnel.

Blackwood throws back his hood. We finally see his face.

His eyes are intense, he is tapped into something dark

and cruel.

Holmes and Watson are shocked at his identity.

Blackwood applauds softly, strangely.

Watson raises his gun, trains it on Blackwood.

Blackwood raises his hands in front of him, almost

mockingly.

That's more than Watson can take.   He moves in to pistol-

whip Blackwood --

-- is stopped suddenly by Holmes' hand grabbing his

collar.

Watson struggles forward against Holmes' grip.

Holmes seems to be pointing at Blackwood.   Watson looks,

sees nothing.

Watson looks, and sees it and his eyes flare wide.

INCHES FROM WATSON'S RIGHT EYE is the needle-pointed end

of a QUIVERING PIECE OF HIGH-TENSILE WIRE, almost

invisible --

-- the other end held between Blackwood's hands.    A

really nasty concealed weapon.

One more step and Watson gets impaled in the eye.

We hear heavy boots on the balcony, as Lestrade and his

men finally appear.

POLICEMEN flood the area.

Watson is pleased by that.

BANG-BANG-BANG-BANG-BANG! A dozen GUNSHOTS O.S.    Captain

Philips hits the floor, terrified.

Watson suppresses extreme irritation, writes a

prescription on a piece of paper, then helps Captain

Philips to his feet.

He heads out, letting his aggravation show once his back

is turned to his patient.

As Watson exits his apartment and moves down the hall,

MRS. HUDSON, his landlady, shoots up the stairs with the

paper. Her nerves are almost as bad as Captain Philips'.

Which is a relief to Mrs. Hudson.

Captain Philips emerges from Watson's apartment, heads

towards them.

Mrs. Hudson's already-frayed nerves take a turn for the

worse. Watson takes the newspaper from her.

Watson heads down the hallway to the last door. A

tendril of smoke wafts out from under it. Urgent.

Nonetheless, Watson   stops, takes a deep breath, gathers

himself. Something    like this has happened before (is, in

fact, Holmes' usual   brand of chaos) the difference being,

now, that Watson is   sick to death of dealing with it.

Which doesn't mean he won't.

Newspaper in hand, Watson opens the door, pokes his head

in, cautiously. He sees --

Watson squeezes through the doorway to find that the

obstruction is Holmes who is sitting in the dark on a

chair, blocking the door, aiming a gun (with an odd

contraption fastened on its barrel) at the wall.

Unadulterated chaos. A series of FLAMING BULLET HOLES

blasted into the wall in the (ragged) initials "V.R."

Watson heads towards the conservatory.

Watson pulls open the curtains allowing the light to pour

in.

Watson passes him heading to the other side of the room

(possibly grabs the gun) picking up a pile of open

letters from a table.

Watson whips open more curtains and opens a window.

Holmes crawls on his hands and knees over to a table

where he finds his sunglasses and puts them on.

Watson sits on a chair and begins to leaf though the

letters.

Watson hands Holmes the newspaper.

Awkward pause.   Cough.

Mrs. Hudson enters carrying a tray of bread and tea.    She

is steeling herself for this interaction.

Mrs. Hudson crosses to Holmes and puts the tray before

him.

She goes to remove an old tray from behind him.

She ignores him and removes the tray then crosses back

towards the door noticing a bulldog lying unconscious

under the table.

Watson jumps up. His bulldog, GLADSTONE, lies on the

floor in a drugged stupor.

Watson's finally had enough.

A little smile from Holmes.

The dog wakes up and runs out.

Watson exits, leaving Holmes alone in his own chaos.

For the first time, we see a hint of fear in his eyes.

Holmes sits in the center of a booth waiting for Watson

to arrive. He is quite uncomfortable in this setting.

WE SEE HIS OBSERVATIONS -- he picks up little pieces of

information from the other guests. He notices the

details on a pair of gentleman's cufflinks, the name on a

bottle of wine, a surreptitious argument between waiters.

It all becomes quite overbearing.

And then Watson and Mary arrive, talking, intent on each

other -- surprised when they realize Holmes is already

there.

Holmes looks at MARY MORSTAN -- looks again. She's

beautiful, 30s, and clearly a woman worth marrying.

Holmes stands. She extends her hand.

Holmes gestures politely, they sit, Mary and Watson on

either side of him. There is a decanted bottle of wine

on the table.

Watson likes that, Holmes less so -- a forced chuckle.

Mary laughs.

Holmes and Watson exchange a glance -- not a good idea.

Watson's getting nervous, reaches for the wine.     Holmes

stops him.

Mary nods.

The WAITER appears.

Watson gives Holmes a hard look:   that's a bit much.

He shakes his head, pours wine for all.

Both Watson and Mary scorch Holmes with their eyes.

Holmes pauses... pauses, then:

Holmes' mind has gotten away from him.   He begins talking

faster, intensely focused, manic.

As Holmes talks, Watson gets up, moves to help Mary to

her feet. They're leaving.

Mary throws Watson's wine in Holmes' face. The

restaurant goes silent. She turns to leave, turns back.

Now she leaves --

Blackwood keeps whispering.     The Captain falls to one

knee, keeps coughing.

Finally the Captain COUGHS SOMETHING UP, spits it out

onto the stone floor. He looks down, horrified:

It's a small CATHOLIC CROSS on a chain.

Prisoners start SHOUTING.   The RAVEN at Blackwood's

windowsill flutters away.   Other guards run up,

terrified.

Guards pull the Captain away. The remaining guard picks

up the cross, stares at Blackwood, chilled. Blackwood's

eyes snap open.

The fighting is over and the pub is closing. Only a few

people remain cleaning up, mopping the beer and blood.

Watson enters fast, looks around, and moves upstairs.

INT. PUNCH BOWL PUB - ATTIC

Watson walks down a dingy hallway towards a door. With a

look of resignation, he opens the door to see Holmes

sitting alone in the sterile, barely furnished room.

Holmes faces the corner, playing scales on his VIOLIN.

On the table next to him, an upside down BEER STEIN and

an assortment of prescription medicine bottles.

Watson approaches, sees Holmes has bloodshot eyes from

lack of sleep.

Watson picks one of the medicine bottles which is open.

No answer. More scales. Watson approaches, sees Holmes

has bloodshot eyes from lack of sleep. The beer stein is

full of FLIES all buzzing about.

Holmes plays a different scale, the flies all stop

moving, stick to the glass.

Watson picks up the glass, lets loose the flies. Holmes

looks up; Watson's already moving for the door, pissed.

But Watson's already out the door.

Watson and Holmes ride in a cab, passing familiar

landmarks as the city comes to life. They sit in

silence, tension hanging between them. Finally Holmes

grabs Watson's bag, rummages around and pulls out a clean

white shirt.

Watson looks out the window, frustrated. He sees THE

HALF-CONSTRUCTED MASS OF TOWER BRIDGE. Near ground

level, workers take down a large BLACKWOOD STEEL sign.

No reply.

As Holmes is taking off his jacket, he reaches into his

pocket and pulls out a wad of money.

Silence.   Holmes takes off his shirt.

Silence.   Holmes pulls on the clean shirt.

Silence.

Watson punches him square in the face.

Holmes rubs his jaw.

Watson's steaming.   Holmes puts on his vest.

Holmes hands him the waistcoat which he promptly tosses

out of the carriage window. Holmes frowns, looks out the

opposite window.

Already a CROWD is gathering outside the jail, papers are

for sale, Blackwood's death is the headline. Religious

zealots and occultists swarm. Police keep them away from

the entrance. Holmes heads inside, Watson stops.

A pale, nervous GUARD leads Holmes down the shadowy

corridor. All the cells are now EMPTY.

Holmes can see how spooked the Guard is.

The Guard high-tails it out of there.

INT. PENTONVILLE PRISON - BLACKWOOD'S CELL - DAY

Holmes approaches Blackwood's cell, strolling

insouciantly. No way this creep's getting to him. In

the shadows he can barely make out Blackwood, who's

reading aloud to himself. Holmes listens, getting

closer.

Blackwood pauses, turns, sees Holmes.

They share a smile -- two heavyweights sizing each other

up.

Suddenly, Blackwood is right at the bars, close to

Holmes.

Despite the bars between them, the men are close

together. Holmes seems to be studying Blackwood's ear.

Holmes steps back, shakes his head.

As Holmes walks away, Blackwood calls after him.

Holmes walks down the corridor, meets Lestrade and a

PRIEST. The place is bustling with cops and officials.

Holmes looks at the priest.

INT. PENTONVILLE PRISON - GALLOWS

The room where the execution takes place is packed to the

rafters with senior officials, members of the government

and cops. We get a good look at some of the faces.

Watson is there too. Blackwood walks up into the noose.

A SHOT OF GATHERED WITNESSES AND OFFICIALS

A SHOT OF THE EXECUTIONER

A SHOT OF BLACKWOOD

smiling malignly.    His final words:

A SHOT OF THE HOOD

going over Blackwood's head.

A SHOT OF THE NOOSE

slipping around Blackwood's neck.

A SHOT OF THE PERSPIRING PRIEST

clutching his Bible.

A SHOT OF THE TRAP DOOR

opening.   Legs fall through and yank tight.

A SHOT OF WATSON

checking Blackwood's pulse.     He pronounces Blackwood

dead. The show is over.

INT. 221 BAKER STREET - DAY

Holmes is out cold, lying on his tiger skin rug.

CRACK!   His eyes fly open.   CRACK!!

REVEAL: Irene Adler sits on the stairs near Holmes' lab,

cracking walnuts. She stands and Holmes watches her

every move as she crosses to him. She leans down,

putting the walnuts in front of him and flashes him a

smile.

Irene gets up to cross the room. Only once her back is

turned does Holmes lever himself upright, stunned by this

intrusion. As soon as she clears he quickly moves over

to a concealed safe. He tests the door to make sure it's

still locked.

As she passes a small table that has been outfitted with

tea, dried fruit, olives, etc...

Irene grabs a file from Holmes' desk.

Irene opens the file, flips through newspaper clippings

and police reports, her back to Holmes.

Holmes stealthily turns down a photo of Irene, just

before she turns back to face him.

Holmes reaches for Irene and pulls on a chain around her

neck, revealing and enormous diamond.

They move to sit at the table.

TRACK INTO Irene's hypnotically beautiful eyes. Holmes

almost melts. Then, Irene reaches for something inside

her jacket and Holmes grabs her hand.

Irene pulls out an ENVELOPE.

She hands him the envelope.

Just for a brief moment, she can't hide the anxiety in

her eyes.

She stands and pulls out a large bag of coins.

She ignores him. Holmes examines the envelope. On it is

stamped the letterhead of the Grand Hotel. She pauses

behind him as she exits.

As she walks out she puts her photo back upright.

Irene descends the stairs just as Watson is coming in.

He lifts his hat, waits for her to pass --

-- does a speechless double-take when he sees who it is.

Irene keeps moving.

We PICK UP Irene crossing a street. She passes a DARK

ALLEYWAY. Pauses. Looks. She turns into the alley.

HOLD ON the alley for a long beat. Too dark to see much

in there.

IRENE

emerges from the alley holding a lovely bunch of roses.

She sniffs them appreciatively, walks on.

IRENE

approaches a waiting carriage, looks around her, gets in.

INT. CARRIAGE

Irene sits, turns to address a man-shaped shadow filling

the opposite corner of the carriage. Before she can

speak, a gesture from the shadow stills her. This is

PROFESSOR MORIARTY.

Irene is made to wait as Moriarty finishes writing a

complex mathematical equation (in astronomy), folds the

paper to reveal that it is addressed to THE ROYAL

ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY, cracks open the carriage window and

slides the folded paper partway out.

Someone waiting outside takes the paper, and their

footsteps clatter away.

Moriarty closes the window, and the carriage starts

moving. A full beat goes by before he turns to Irene,

finally prepared to engage with her.

Suddenly, the coach comes to a halt, they lurch forward.

A rough-looking BEGGAR wearing an eye patch has fallen

under a wheel of the coach.

The Beggar is up, limping toward the window where

Moriarty and Irene sit. He has disgusting blackened

teeth.

He reaches toward the window. Within a nanosecond,

Moriarty extends his hand into which a PISTOL appears,

delivered by a concealed mechanism (Travis Bickle style).

The gun rests on the Beggar's forehead. The cold eyes of

the man that holds the weapon bore into the skull of the

Beggar, who backs off in fear. The carriage moves on.

Holmes is washing his face in a basin on the other side

of the room, completely transformed now, utterly alive.

Watson approaches, very concerned, almost enraged.

This is a hopeless cause -- Watson won't stop.

Holmes looks like he's had enough.

Holmes grabs the envelope back.

Holmes picks up his violin.

Holmes strums one more chord on his violin, thinking.

Irene's bag of money still sits on the table.

Holmes motions to the bills.

He turns to see... CONSTABLE CLARK standing at the door.

Breathless, pale, scared.

Watson walks into his office.

They all move to the exit.

Clarky laughs.

Judging by the estate, Blackwood comes from old money,

and lots of it. We FOLLOW the carriage hurrying Holmes

and Watson forward.

Generations of wealth buried in moss-covered marble

memorials. Not a place for a picnic, not even on a

bright sunny day -- and it's starting to rain.

A COP stops the carriage, opens the door. Holmes and

Watson exit, Watson carries a black leather FORENSICS

KIT.

They walk up the pathway towards the Blackwood Family

Crypt. Watson barely lifts his head, scanning the ground

while Holmes appears to have taken an interest in a clump

of trees in the distance.

Police lamps light one large marble CRYPT. The cops are

in tight clusters, whispering to themselves, spooked.

They'd rather be anywhere but here.

As Holmes and Watson approach, they see the marble doors

of the crypt have been BLASTED OPEN FROM THE INSIDE.

Holmes and Watson share a quick glance -- this is

interesting.

Lestrade emerges from the crypt.   He is sweating, shaken.

Holmes offers Lestrade his handkerchief, Lestrade waves

it off.

On second thought, Lestrade does take Holmes'

handkerchief.

Holmes inspects the door, checking the hinges. He

notices the Blackwood CREST, and the image of a SPHINX.

The old GROUNDSKEEPER, pale and terrified, stands out of

the rain under an ancient cypress tree.

Watson heads for him.   Holmes disappears in the opposite

direction.

As soon as their backs are turned, Lestrade marches over

to a nervous knot of cops, grabs a fistful of blue in

each hand, drags his boys in close. He doesn't want

Holmes or Watson to hear this.

The cops nod, duly chastened.

THE GROUNDSKEEPER

mumbles the Lord's Prayer under his breath. Watson

immediately goes into doctor mode checking his pulse,

looking in his eyes.

The Groundskeeper just keeps praying. Watson takes a

boiled sweet from his pocket, pops it in the man's mouth

and gently sits him down.

Holmes walks over holding a small branch from a tree.

Lestrade stomps up.

Lestrade shakes his head.    It hasn't been a good day for

him, or the Yard.

There's a clunk. They all turn to see the coffin has

been extracted from the crypt.

Four beefy, soil-stained cops emerge lugging the coffin.

They place it on the ground, step back, crossing

themselves, murmuring, plainly terrified. Holmes

chuckles.

But no one moves. The cops pass a CROWBAR around as if

it were red-hot. Watson's had enough. He marches

forward --

-- snatches the crowbar away, jams it under the lid and

levers it off with a slow, eerie groan.

Holmes and Lestrade move forward, the cops move backward.

The coffin is filled with EARTH, overflowing. They brush

away a layer of dirt, to reveal... A DEAD BODY in the

coffin. The body is a much smaller man than Blackwood,

in everyday clothes, with red hair.

Watson opens his forensic kit, disturbed. Vials, silver

tools. He takes a CALIPER, begins examining the body.

Lestrade hands over a nice fountain pen, still stunned.

Holmes takes the pen and pries open the corpse's mouth,

revealing: two missing teeth in the man's jaw.

Holmes spots something glinting in the man's dirt-filled

pocket. He uses the pen to fish out: a POCKET WATCH.

Holmes hands the pen back to Lestrade. Lestrade looks at

it with dismay, takes it in Holmes' handkerchief -- a

small measure of revenge.

Holmes complies hungrily and they start to stroll along.

Watson appears preoccupied.

Holmes pulls out a JEWELER'S LOUP, screws it into his

eye, and flips Reordon's watch open. He examines the

lid.

Watson looks quite chuffed.

Watson looks extremely pleased with himself until they

turn a corner into a street where EVERY SECOND SHOP IS A

PAWN SHOP. His face falls.

Watson shakes his head.

WE SEE MADDISON & HAIG, PAWNBROKERS, RESPECTABLE,

DISCREET, ahead of them there on Bow Street.

A GYPSY PALM READER approaches Watson as he turns to

leave.

She grabs his hand anyway.

Watson is so taken aback by the urgency and gravity of

her tone that he doesn't pull away.

Holmes and Watson look at each other.   She has their

attention.

Watson looks at Holmes.

Watson snatches his hand away.

Holmes feigns innocence.

The Palm Reader looks at Holmes.

Watson shakes his head as he pays the woman.

Holmes swallows the last of his cod and casts the

wrapping aside, pleased with himself.

Holmes digs into a pocket, produces a wad of coins.

Watson snatches the money, storms into Madison and Haig.

Holmes is confused until he spots a sign in the window:

"Large selection of engagement rings for every wallet."

Holmes starts to look a bit nervous. As he follows

Watson, he is intercepted by the Palm Reader who grabs

his arm.

Even Holmes is taken aback by this.

EXT. LONDON EAST END - MINUTES LATER

Holmes and Watson move down the street, the pawnshop

behind them. Now Watson is smiling, and Holmes is not.

Watson is beaming at: an ENGAGEMENT RING in a box.

Holmes turns away, looks down at the TICKET he got from

the pawnshop: an ADDRESS.

He slows, looks up at a dark, dingy LODGING HOUSE.   Some

windows are boarded up.

Holmes heads for lodging house.     Watson checks his watch.

Holmes winds his way up a twisting flight of creaky

stairs, finds a door with scratches on the keyhole.

Holmes takes out his knife and goes to work on the lock.

It is fiddly. It takes him a while. He kneels to get a

better angle with the knife.

CRACK! Watson's boot flashes past him as he KICKS the

door off its hinges. Off Holmes' pleased reaction, he

gestures them inside.

INT. REORDON'S ROOMS - DAY

The squalid doorway opens into a series of dark rooms.

Watson lights a lamp which reveals details of an interior

that stops them both in their tracks:

From floor to ceiling, every available inch is covered in

writing, biblical Latin and Hebrew. Scrawled-on paper

and pages are tacked to walls and carved into the

plaster, crucifixes punctuate the yards of text and

collage, strange pagan charms hang from the ceiling.

They move further inside where there is a hallway and a

basic bedroom. Holmes inspects it, moves through a door.

Watson puts down what he was looking at, goes towards...

Instantly, Watson covers his nose with a handkerchief.

The room is stacked with an alarming amount of scientific

and biological paraphernalia. Some of it gives off a

distinctly electrical hum. Ungodly fragments of limbs

and matter float in jars.

In the center of the room, something ROTTING. An

experiment generating a massive stench, a seething cloud

of flies. Holmes and Watson step closer to see:

DEAD FROGS. Eyes opened impossibly wide, their bodies

frozen in strange contortions, as if mid-death-rattle.

Holmes moves around the room, sniffing like a morbid

perfumer. Watson does his best not to gag.

Watson moves to the stove, sees a sheaf of BURNT PAPERS.

He digs through them, finds one piece not as burnt as the

rest. A CREST stamped on it, impossible to read.

Watson digs through his forensic bag, pulls out vials.

Holmes shuffles a few bottles, tosses one to Watson.

Watson catches it, starts pouring the acid, another

chemical on a clean sheet of paper.

Holmes senses something, moves into the next room.       He

stops at an open window, smells the CURTAINS:

Watson presses the chemical-soaked paper onto the burnt

paper.

Watson keeps rubbing the paper together, puts it by the

lantern. Slowly, faint words APPEAR on the blank page.

Ghostly chemistry. Watson sees the crest is Blackwood's.

Holmes gets a whiff of something, raises an eyebrow.       He

starts walking back to the other room.

BOOM!   The door WHIPS open.    TWO THUGS spill into the

room.

They are followed by DREDGER, a huge man, just shy of

seven feet tall and pushing 400 pounds, slightly

deformed, who follows them into the room. He sucks on a

twisty stick of barley sugar (Victorian hard candy).

They stop, surprised to see Holmes and Watson.    Holmes'

eyes widen at the giant.

Dredger is deadpan.

The two thugs step toward Holmes and Watson.

Watson meets the men in the middle of the room, swinging

at them. As they dodge and swing back --

Holmes grabs a standing lamp, sliding it into his hand as

a weapon. He looks at Dredger, knows it won't make a

dent. He keeps moving, swinging the lamp toward a

CURTAIN. In the blink of an eye:

He WRAPS UP the curtain, ripping it down, bringing the

heavy STEEL ROD with it. He catches the rod, flipping it

so the curtain-rings rain to the floor.

He spins the rod expertly, SMASHING it into Dredger's

face. It stuns the giant for a beat, but quickly --

Dredger LUNGES forward, trapping the steel rod under his

arm. He grabs the rod and HURLS Holmes through the air,

sending him flying into --

Watson challenges him with a look.

Holmes turns and comes face-to-face with a dangerous-

looking man who has a few conspicuous WARTS on his face.

Watson snaps at the man.

Brownlee takes a swing at Watson. Holmes checks him and

drops Brownlee without missing a beat.

Watson now turns away, completely irritated at Holmes'

lack of understanding.

Watson shakes his head in disbelief.

He touches his own heart.   They hear a BILLYCLUB hit the

bars.

Watson steps up. Holmes looks confused.    He steps

forward. But the Guard shakes his head.

As he slides open the bars, they see... MARY emerges from

behind the Guard. Watson stands for a beat between

Holmes and Mary. He must make a decision. And he does --

-- he leaves.

Holmes watches him walk out, then locks eyes with Mary.

She gives him a polite nod, turns, heads off with Watson.

The bars slide shut.

The mob surrounds Holmes.   He's never looked more alone.

INT. LONDON JAIL - CORRIDOR

Lestrade heads toward the holding room, flanked by prison

wardens.

As the door is opened, the thug blasts out backwards,

having just been battered through it by Holmes.

Holmes and Lestrade march along. Lestrade holds out a

copy of the newspaper. The headline reads: "BLACKWOOD

LIVES AND THE DEVIL WALKS WITH HIM! MURDERER

RESURRECTED!"

Holmes sees a dark, strange carriage waiting, door open.

Holmes enters.   An ANONYMOUS MAN sits in the other seat.

He holds a black hood.   Holmes shrugs.

FADE IN:

The hood is pulled off. Holmes takes in the scene, eyes

flicking around the room.

He's in a grand office where a man in his late 60s, SIR

THOMAS, rises from a pile of papers.

Somewhat stunned, Sir Thomas shakes his head.

Sir Thomas is not in the mood for this -- but Holmes is

on a roll.

Holmes shakes his head; what a massive lack of judgement

on their part.

Holmes turns to see JOHN STANDISH and LORD COWARD

standing behind him. Standish is an American in his

sixties. Coward is a hard, ambitious man in his 30s.

Holmes acknowledges them -- barely -- as they enter.    He

isn't impressed by rank.

Holmes looks around the room, sees FLAGS on the walls

with ancient symbols, variations of the SPHINX.

That shocks them rigid.

Stunned, the men consult silently, come to some sort of

conclusion. They turn back to Holmes. Sir Thomas seems

especially shaken.

Sir Thomas opens a bureau, digs for something.

Holmes is appalled and shows it.

Sir Thomas hands Holmes a TINTYPE. A photograph from the

1860s. It's chilling: a death scene, a BODY covered by

a sheet. A man who's just fallen out a window. A TEN-

YEAR-OLD BOY -- young Lord Blackwood -- looks on.

Holmes looks at Coward with scathing disdain.

Holmes stalks out -- stops at the door, turns, fixes Sir

Thomas with a very bleak gaze.

Holmes holds up the tintype.

Holmes tosses the tintype onto a table, leaves.

OMITTED

Holmes comes out of a carriage, and scoots up the steps

of the massive hotel that's bustling with people.

Irene enters wearing a stunning evening dress. She

pauses glancing briefly around the room before sitting at

a mirrored dressing table. There's a decanter on the

table next to her from which she pours herself a glass of

wine.

Then she begins removing an impressive assortment of

WEAPONS hidden on her person: she pulls a stiletto from

her garter, a Derringer from her waistband (which she

puts down next to the wine glass). She pulls long thin

needles from her hair, lets her hair down. As she

continues...

PULL BACK TO REVEAL Holmes watching her from a shadowy

corner. He looks on silently until:

OR ALT:

They both eye the Derringer on the table.

Holmes approaches her somewhat tentatively and reaches

for the top button on the back of her dress.

Irene is momentarily taken aback then recovers.

Unbuttoning done, Holmes steps out to confront Irene.

Irene gets up, walks behind a DRESSING SCREEN.

Irene steps out, now wearing an array of Victorian

undergarments. Unfairly gorgeous. The huge DIAMOND

still around her neck. She moves back to the dressing

table.

Holmes won't look at her, refusing to get turned on.

Holmes gets closer and closer to Irene as he presses his

case vehemently.

Holmes notices her Derringer on the table next to the

wine bottle.

Irene reaches for the wine.

Irene snatches up her gun.    Holmes grabs her arm.

BANG! A BULLET tears into his shoe, missing his toe.

Holmes snatches away the smoking Derringer. Irene kisses

him, hard and angry at first, becoming something else.

Another of the weapons in her arsenal, and the one that

disarms Holmes.

The kiss leads them to the bed.

Irene pulls him down to it.     He doesn't resist.

CLICK!

Holmes' eyes flare with surprise.

CLICK!

Irene has handcuffed him to the bed frame.

She gets off him.

While he struggles on the bed, Irene walks casually

across the room. She starts putting on MAN'S CLOTHING.

She's in charge now.

She approaches, now dressed as a man, straddles him.

Thomas smiles, goes up.   Perigrine heads for the kitchen,

licking his lips.

Sir Thomas sinks into his bath.   Relaxing.

The CAMERA SLOWLY TRACKS IN, drip, drip, drip.

The silence is broken all of a sudden when the tap is

magically turned on. Sir Thomas opens his eyes in panic,

as he hears an eerie WHISPER O.S., like the rushing of

wind.

Sir Thomas is overcome with panic, tries to sit up.

Can't. Not all the way.

Holmes steps into the room.

Holmes steps aside. Two/three policemen enter carrying a

large, heavy bag and unceremoniously dump it on Watson's

desktop. They unzip the bag, revealing the dead body of

the thug from Reordon's lodging.

Watson keeps packing. Holmes analyzes the body,

starting, of all places, with the outer elbows and

forearms of his coat.

Holmes grabs various instruments and other items from

Watson's newly-packed boxes. Frustrated, Watson snatches

them back as quickly as Holmes takes them out.

Holmes scrapes at the layers of blood with his knife,

examines it.

Watson slows down slightly. He keeps packing, trying to

resist the mystery, but it's not easy.

Holmes cuts a lock of the man's hair, ignites it, studies

the color of the flame carefully. Watson wrinkles his

nose at the smell.

Holmes uses a curved nail file to scrape dirt from under

the man's fingernails, rubs the evidence between his

fingers like a connoisseur.

Watson slows down further, struggling.

A hanging beat.   And Watson finally cracks, blurting out:

Watson pulls it out of a box.

As Watson flips through it, Holmes plucks a few chords on

his violin, thinking. Watson finds the page.

Blackwood stands, prowls.

The men are beginning to like what they hear.

Nobody moves.   Blackwood smiles -- he's won.

Tanner nods. A soft "splosh" as Holmes disappears.

Watson carefully leaves his valued possessions behind,

watch, etc. He lays down his wallet and looks at Tanner.

Watson glares, goes over the side, with his walking

stick.

OMITTED

Holmes and Watson emerge out of the shallows, covered in

mud. Holmes doesn't seem bothered. Watson does.

They look up and see a jetty that heads out into the

river. Two shadowy THUGS guard the dock, while more

THUGS are loading the boat with something.

Holmes and Watson scuttle forward, towards the entrance,

where two more THUGS patrol. Watson pulls out Holmes'

GUN.

Holmes looks back at Watson, takes the gun, says nothing,

the closest he'll come to a confession. Watson steps

forward.

They look out at the thugs guarding the door. Holmes

whispers, trying to figure out the best strategy.

Watson has already left. He simply walks up to the door

and whacks the larger man in the face with the gun --

before dispatching the other with a backhand pistol-whip.

Holmes follows, notices that both men have hip flasks.

He picks one up, takes a whiff, and pockets it as he

follows Watson. He slows, sensing something behind him.

He turns, looks at shadows. Nothing. And he enters --

OMITTED

Holmes walks towards Watson who stands in the doorway,

stopped in his tracks, spooked. Holmes catches up,

passing Watson into --

Shadows on shadows. Metal groans softly, like a

plaintive wail. The twisted blades of slaughterhouse

instruments glimmer in the darkness. A few RATS lay

dead. A truly creepy scene. Holmes and Watson move

through it.

As they go, Holmes notices rows of empty tables. He runs

his finger through a layer of dust, inspecting it.

Quiet:

Holmes slows, picks up one of the dead rats. He inspects

it, sees something on its skin, some kind of dark spore.

Holmes looks up, and sees Watson standing at a set of

doors.

Holmes pulls out a CIGAR-CUTTER, CLIPS off the rat's

TAIL, slipping it into his pocket, as he joins Watson,

stepping into --

A massive space with a maze of machinery full of deadly

gears and blades and saws, lifeless and silent for now.

An automated butchery on a grand scale. This is the

killing floor. Huge hooks hang from chain belts on an I-

beam, the ceiling, swaying softly, whispering in the

wind.

On the high walls, a huge number has been scrawled:     118.

Holmes shakes his head, his eyes narrow, ticking.

Another voice completes the passage, echoing from above:

Holmes and Watson follow the voice to see: BLACKWOOD in

the rafters. Shadows hang heavy around him. Holmes and

Watson react: this is the first time they've seen him in

the flesh.

The hooks in the ceiling are shivering softly, strangely.

Holmes tightens. Blackwood continues, his voice echoes,

as the hooks move through the air, gliding on a track.

Watson pulls his gun, draws a bead on Blackwood, pulls

the trigger. Click. Misfire.

We see Lestrade and his men swarming the scene, they spot

Watson, alive, but unconscious. Irene has disappeared.

Holmes sees this and heads toward his friend, but --

-- is intercepted by Constable Clark.

Holmes cracks Constable Clark in the sweet spot, helps

him gently to his knees. Holmes turns away, makes his

escape fast.

Holmes turns back to look at the explosion.

INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR

Two POLICEMEN half-heartedly guard the end of a corridor.

One reads the paper. The headline: "AMERICAN AMBASSADOR

STANDISH BURNED ALIVE!"

Mary returns past them, having unsuccessfully washed away

tear-stained makeup; there is a smear on her cheek. The

two coppers nod respectfully.

Mary arrives at the windowed door of a private room,

reaches for the handle, pauses.

THROUGH THE GLASS, she sees a white-coated DOCTOR,

studying Watson's chart.

Mary stays at the door, unsure whether to enter or not.

WE SEE a newspaper on the nightstand next to a hospital

bed, the headline reads: "AMERICAN AMBASSADOR STANDISH

BURNED ALIVE!"

Watson is burned, cut, bruised, scraped, pock-marked with

shrapnel. He mumbles inaudibly, his eyes still closed.

He's delirious, sweating.

(NOTE: Mary's detective novels and magazines, coat,

handbag, etc. already in the room.)

The doctor injects Watson in the arm. The shot wakes

him. Watson tries to sit up, wincing with pain.

Watson looks at his wounded shoulder.

Watson tries to sit up again.

This reveals that Mary has entered the room, stands back

respectfully, letting the Doctor do his work.

Watson grabs the Doctor's arm angrily.

ON MARY

As she takes a closer, sharper look at the Doctor.

Mary steps towards the Doctor, eyes flashing.

The Doctor turns just outside the door, to face her.

She's suddenly very angry.

The Doctor has no words.

The Doctor can't face her anger any longer, turns, leaves

fast.

The doctor strides down the corridor past the policemen.

Then he begins to chant. The words are eerily

reminiscent of Blackwood's chanting.

Suddenly one of the drops of blood bursts into flame in

mid-air -- as it hits the ground, the circle around

Holmes ignites, followed by a larger circle beyond that.

Holmes snaps around, Blackwood has appeared behind him

within the outer circle of flame.

Holmes sways, fuzzy.   He struggles to focus on Blackwood.

Holmes shakes his head, he can barely see straight.

Blackwood raises a sacrificial sword and swings at

Holmes' head.

We see --

HOLMES' POV

as Blackwood swings the sacrificial sword at Holmes'

head. It looks as if Holmes has no time to react --

WHOOSH -- the sword WIPES the FRAME --

We see a SERIES OF QUICK CUTS, has Blackwood killed

Holmes, or is he hallucinating, caught in the spell he

conjured?

A CLOSEUP OF HOLMES

His face covered with earth -- just as we saw Reordon in

his coffin. Holmes' eyes snap open, he breathes in air --

As he comes to life we see events of the recent past

flash through his mind.

BLACKWOOD'S TOMB.

THE STUFF IN REORDON'S ROOM.

THE DEAD RATS.

A CLOSEUP OF HOLMES

His face submerged in water inside a copper bath tub --

just as we saw Sir Thomas. Holmes' eyes snap open, he

breathes in air --

THE OPENING CONFRONTATION IN THE CATACOMBS.

THE OBJECTS IN SIR THOMAS' SECRET ROOM.

THE PATTERNS HOLMES HAS DRAWN ON THE FLOOR OF THE PUNCH

BOWL.

A CLOSEUP OF HOLMES

His face engulfed with flames -- just as we saw Standish.

STANDISH FALLING THROUGH THE AIR CRASHING INTO THE

CARRIAGE.

THE SPHINX.

THE RAVEN FLAPPING ITS WINGS.

HOLMES

Writing and sweating on the bed in the attic. Holmes

sees a hazy image of Irene. She leans over him smiling

sweetly then wraps her hands around his neck and starts

to strangle him.

IRENE SAYING "WHERE'S WATSON WHEN YOU NEED HIM?"

BLACKWOOD IN THE ROOM AGAIN WITHIN THE FLAME CIRCLE.

We SEE WATSON turning to warn Holmes before EXPLODING --

HOLMES!!!!

FADE IN:

The sun is rising.   Holmes' eyes open and we see:

WATSON -- or some deathly version of his old friend -- is

sitting in the chair where Blackwood appeared.

Watson leans closer, into the light. A ghost or a man?

He gestures towards the diagram on the floor.

He writes something in his notebook. He is decidedly

alive, but with burn flashes, cuts and bruises. His arm

is in a sling. He's been through it.

In the b.g. Irene is at the fire heating some coffee.

Watson shows him a piece of shrapnel --

-- then tosses it away.

They both smile.   United in agony.

They both look back over to Irene who just finished

loading her gun. The coffee seems ready so she pours a

cup.

Irene walks over and hands Holmes the cup.

They smile at their unique, twisted understanding of one

another.

Holmes takes a drink of coffee.

He hands Holmes his VIOLIN.     Holmes takes it.

Watson and Irene sit at a table, the SCREECH of a fiddle

now comes from upstairs.

The fiddler's owner -- from the pub's band -- is busy

getting drunk with the money he has acquired.

Irene arrives with two pints, puts one down in front of

him, sits opposite him with the other.

Watson looks from Irene to the pint with open suspicion.

Could it be poisoned? He wouldn't put it past her. But

then he decides that's absurd. He takes a sip.

