On screen it reads:

TERESA BANKS' body wrapped in plastic floating through Hells Canyon,

drifting along in Wind River.

On screen it reads:

FADE OUT:

FADE IN:

Establish.

GORDON COLE talks on the speaker phone.

A school bus.  TWO very buxom PROSTITUTES are being handcuffed by a

plain clothes special agent, CHESTER DESMOND.  Another AGENT has his

gun to the spread eagled BUS DRIVER's head.  The KIDS inside the bus

are screaming.  The phone inside Chester Desmond's car starts to

ring.  Desmond walks to the car.

Desmond picks up the ringing phone.

INTERCUT WITH: COLE

Desmond electronically lowers the aerial adjusting the volume.

Small government plane lands.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Desmond exits the plane.

Desmond enters.  Cole and another man, SAM STANLEY, walk towards him.

Desmond and Stanley shake.

LIL walks to them from another room.  She goes into a contorted dance.

Things we notice.

--  She makes a sour face.

--  She walks in place.

--  She puts one hand in her pocket and makes a fist with the other.

--  While she is doing this, she blinks with both eyes.

--  She is wearing a red wig.

At one point during this Cole adds a sentence.

Cole holds four fingers in front of his eyes.

Cole gives him the thumbs up.

Lil finishes her dance.

Desmond's car on the highway.

As they barrel down the highway -

Desmond pulls his arm back so that only his fingers come out of his

sleeve.

As Desmond explains we -

In slow motion.

ON LIL'S SOUR FACE

ON LIL BLINKING BOTH EYES

ON LIL PUTTING ONE HAND IN HER POCKET AND ONE IN A FIST

ON LIL WALKING IN PLACE

WE SEE COLE PUTTING HIS FINGERS IN FRONT OF HIS FACE AND SAYING LIL

IS HIS SISTER'S GIRL.

ON LIL'S RED WIG

Stanley rides along quietly for a while.

Desmond's car drives off.

Desmond and Stanley arrive.  The Sheriff's Station is in a sorry

state outside...  They walk up to the old steps and enter.

Agent Desmond and Stanley walk into a very small reception area.  At

the counter Desmond shows his badge to CLIFF HOWARD, the Deputy.

Cliff just smiles for a long minute.

Desmond stays standing and Stanley sits.  After another long moment,

Cliff joins the SECRETARY in a conspiratorial giggle over the long

wait they are planning to give the FBI.  In the middle of a giggle

Cliff smiles up at Desmond.

Cliff has a good laugh over this and leans again over the secretary

pretending to look at some paper work.  They both laugh.

Desmond walks towards the door that obviously must go to Sheriff

Cable's office.

Cliff blocks his way with his arm across the doorway, daring him to

do something.  While they stare eye to eye, Desmond's hand goes up

slowly towards Cliff's face in a slow mesmerizing way.  Cliff tries

to knock Chet's hand away.  Chet counters by grabbing Cliff's nose

and pinches a nerve to its side injecting Cliff with a great amount

of pain.

Desmond spins the deputy 180 degrees placing himself on the inside of

the office and then still pressing the nerve guides Cliff down into a

chair.

While the Deputy's eyes tear copiously Desmond turns to the secretary.

Desmond stalks to Sheriff Cable's office.  Stanley remains behind

continuing to observe every detail.

SHERIFF CABLE looks up from his work.

Desmond shows his credentials.

Cliff, still holding his nose, appears just behind Desmond, who turns

to him.

Cable signals Cliff to leave.

Cable retrieves a box with the paper work and some personal effects.

He throws it to Desmond.

Desmond starts to leave.

As Desmond turns to leave he notices on the wall a framed Newspaper

clipping with picture.

The caption reads:

The newspaper shows a picture of Cable in a He-Man pose bending a

steel BAR into a U shape.  He turns to leave and Stanley seems to

have appeared right on time.  Desmond moves down the hall and Stanley

follows.

As Desmond and Stanley walk to the adjoining morgue they see a pile of

steel BARS similar to the one they saw Cable bending in the picture.

AT THE MORGUE DOOR

Stanley moves up to Desmond and speaks confidentially.

Desmond doesn't know what to say to him.  They enter the morgue.

Teresa's body is on the platform in the middle of the room,  Stanley

hangs his recorder on the hooks at the end of the autopsy table and

puts on rubber gloves.  Desmond opens Teresa Banks file.

As Desmond is doing this, Stanley takes out his SPECIAL MACHINE.

Desmond looks up from his work and notices.

Getting to work, Stanley's face goes right over Teresa's.

Stanley's eyes drift to Teresa's left hand.

Desmond notices the mark on her hand as well.

Stanley picks up her left hand.

INSERT: BANKS LEFT HAND

In Stanley's hand.

ON THE SCENE

Stanley peers underneath the fingernail.

Stanley brings over his "Whiteman" instrument.  Works the left hand

under it.

He gets whatever it is with a long set of tweezers.

Desmond comes around and takes a look.

On a piece of paper.

CLOSEUP: DESMOND

Pondering what he has seen.

ON THE SCENE

We move across to a clock on the wall that reads:  5:04.

THE SAME CLOCK

It now reads 3:33.  Stanley zips up a regulation body bag around

Teresa.

Desmond and Stanley come out of the morgue.

Desmond takes a long look at Stanley.

Desmond gets in and starts the car.

Establish.

Desmond and Stanley talk with JACK, the manager who has black wavy

hair with a black full mustache to match, shiny silk shirt with silver

strands sown in and an Indian turquoise belt.  He has a sign on his

shirt that says, "Say 'Goodbye' to JACK".

A GUY in the room is working on a light that keeps buzzing and

shorting out.  He doesn't really know what he's doing so he is

poking at the wiring.

He gestures thru a door that leads out to the diner, pointing out a

woman behind the counter.

They sit at the counter and IRENE comes over to them.  Behind her is

the coffee and she is working on a cigarette.  Lipstick smeared on

the coffee cup.

Stanley is casing the restaurant as Irene pours them a couple of cups

of coffee.

She makes a sniff to indicate a "cocaine problem".

An OLD GUY, long and skinny, smoking, gets Desmond's attention.

Desmond moves away from him.

Desmond looks down at the coffee cup in Stanley's _left_hand_.

Stanley checks his watch pouring hot coffee on himself.

Desmond guides his laugh into a cough.

Irene comes up to them with her purse in her hand.  She is going off

duty.

Stanley watches her leave.

As Desmond and Stanley head towards their car.

Irene walks past them and towards the parking lot.

Desmond and Stanley drive thru to the manager's trailer which is

surrounded by a small white picket fence.  They park and step to the

trailer.  Desmond knocks twice on the door.  From inside they hear a

voice that makes Cole's voice sound like a whisper.

Just then Desmond and Stanley notice a sign on the door that reads.

They both fumble for their badges as they hear the manager coming

closer to the door.  They meet the manager, CARL RODD.

He stops in the middle of this when he sees the badges.

Carl steps thru the little picket fence's gate and leads them towards

Teresa's Trailer.

He swings open the door.

Desmond and Stanley go in.

Desmond smells the room.  He and Stanley look around.  Stanley leans

over to Desmond.

Desmond notices her personal effects on the dresser, but no ring.

Stanley walks towards the car.  He writes in his note book.

Desmond notices a picture hanging on the wall.  Takes the picture

down and looks at it thru his magnifying glass.

INSERT - PICTURE

Teresa Banks is wearing a ring.

BACK ON THE SCENE

Stanley returns with his equipment.  Desmond shows him the photograph.

Stanley studies it.

Carl leans in from the outside.

Both nod "yes".

Stanley is finishing up his work.  Carl brings them their coffee.

Desmond tastes the coffee under Sam's watchful eye.

A WOMAN sticks her head into the trailer.  She has an ice pack over

one eye and a load of idle curiosity.  Desmond notices her.

She just nods in the negative and leans back out.  Behind her is

Deputy Cliff, who looks into the trailer.

Chet steps towards Cliff who looses his balance and has to step off

the trailer steps.

Desmond stands in the doorway of the trailer and watches Cliff get

into his car and drive to work.

Stepping away from the trailer Desmond spots something underneath.

He bends down and retrieves a Titleist Golf Ball.

Desmond drops the ball in a plastic bag and gives it to Stanley who

puts it in his kit.  Desmond turns to Carl.

Desmond and Stanley nod to Carl and walk to their car.

Desmond walks around the car to the drivers' side and gets in.

The FBI MOBILE CRIME VAN sits outside as Desmond and Stanley pull up.

Cable and Cliff meet Desmond and Stanley as they come in the door.

The CRIME VAN DRIVER sits nearby.  The secretary is behind her desk.

He reaches out and stops Stanley from going out to get the body.

Cable smiles menacingly at Desmond.

Cable exits followed by Cliff and the giggling secretary.

Desmond, Cliff, Stanley, Cable, the secretary and the FBI van driver

all have stepped outside by the pile of iron bars.

He picks up a steel bar and bends it ala the picture in his office.

Desmond takes his coat and badge off.  Cable takes his shirt off and

Desmond follows.  Cable is bare-chested and Desmond is in FBI issue

underwear.

Desmond goes to pick up an iron bar and Cable hits him with a sucker

punch.  As Desmond bends away from this Cable rushes at him.  Desmond

stops him with a few well placed punches to his face.  Cable falls

down and Desmond stands over him.  Chet picks up the steel bar and

bends it.  He then tosses the bar away.

Cable stands up and rushes at Desmond who flips and flops him around.

Cable tries one more grand roadhouse punch which Desmond expertly

ducks.

Desmond blasts him in the jaw and Cable goes over - lights out, all

systems down.

The no longer giggling secretary and Cliff stand and stare.  Desmond

looks at them.

After a moment of unbearable humiliation they shuffle away.

Stanley and the driver finish loading the body into the van.  Desmond

and Stanley talk.

They walk towards the van until Stanley stops.

Desmond smiles at Stanley as they shake.

DESMOND'S POV

As he enters the van, Desmond can barely make out what Stanley says

as he points to the driver.

Desmond is standing in front of Teresa's trailer with Carl Rodd.

Carl walks away towards his trailer.  Desmond walks over and around

Cliff's red trailer.  He gets a strange feeling.  He looks past

Teresa's trailer to the edge of the trailer park, where he sees a

HAND appear in the window of a trailer.  Then the hand disappears.

Desmond walks to that trailer.  He knocks on the door but no one

answers.  He looks under the trailer and sees a _mound_of_dirt_with_

_a_small_indentation_at_the_top_.  In the indentation is _Teresa_

_Bank's_ring_.  As he reaches out and touches it, _he_disappears_.

Cole and ALBERT ROSENFIELD talk.

The phone rings and Cole answers it.

AGENT DALE COOPER, in the doorway across the hall, talks to DIANE in

the next room.  While he talks he does some isometrics against the

door frame.

Diane says something else that we cannot hear.

Cooper with a triumphant smile walks over to join Cole and Albert.

But Cole's stern look takes his smile away.

All around the walls of Stanley's apartment are work benches with

adding machinery sitting on top of them.  In the middle of the room

is a portable plastic pool, with milky white water and crystallized

salt formations clinging to the sides like quartz rocks.  From one

odd looking piece of machinery there are wires which extend into the

pool.

Cooper's eyes go to the pool and back to Stanley as Sam talks about

Desmond.

Stanley turns to one of his work tables and shows Cooper the Whiteman

machine.

Cooper looks under the microscope to see the letter they found on

Teresa.

Cooper straightens up from the microscope.  Stanley extends his hand.

Carl Rodd shows Cooper to Teresa's trailer.

Cooper starts walking in the opposite direction from Cliff's trailer

picking up on the same odd vibe that struck Desmond.

Cooper reaches a pack of dirt which is now creased with tire tracks.

Cooper kneels to examine the tracks left by the exited trailer.

As he kneels and inspects the tracks he is overcome by the presence

of SOMETHING.

Cooper struggles to his feet and looks around.  Under a tree and

close to the tracks is a car.

Cooper walks to it.

AT DESMOND'S CAR

Cooper inspects the car.  Coming around to the front of the car he

notices the windshield.  On the windshield someone has written the

words, "Let's Rock".

Cooper stares into the stream.

Shot of the Twin Peaks Sign.  Then on screen it reads:

LAURA PALMER walking towards us.  The picture of a Homecoming Queen.

Re-establish.  On screen it reads:

Cooper talks with Cole.

Cooper looks at the calendar in the room and checks his watch.  He

walks from the room.

Cooper stares into the lens of the camera for a moment.  Then sprints

to the Surveillance Room.

Cooper stares at the monitor.  Sees nothing on the screen but an

empty hallway.

Nice sunny day.  The dity in all its glory.  On screen it reads:

PHILLIP JEFFRIES checks into the hotel.

Rings the bell.  A BELLHOP appears.  Young, sweating, and eager.

Jeffries hands him the key.

He picks up Jeffries' bag and heads for the elevator.

Cooper runs out to the hall again stares into the camera.  He stays

there for a moment then runs back to the Surveillance Room.

Cooper stares at the monitor which still shows an empty hallway.

BACK ON COOPER

He runs back out the door into the hallway.  Behind him at the end of

the hall a door opens and _Phillip_Jeffries_who_moments_ago_was_in_

_Buenos_Aires_ enters the hallway headed towards Cooper, but Cooper

doesn't see him because he is staring intently into the camera as he

has done twice before.

Cooper races into the room and stares into the monitor.

This time Cooper is amazed to see himself staring into the camera,

and behind him is Phillip Jeffries coming towards him and the camera.

On the screen Jeffries walks past Cooper.

Cooper runs into Gordon's office.

As Cooper gets to Gordon's office, Albert and Cole are standing there

staring bug eyed at Phillip Jeffries.

Albert stands up.

Jeffries moves into the room.  Cooper steps into the office.

Jeffries stares at the threesome.

Cole calms Cooper.

Jeffries stumbles to a chair.

Albert is about to say something, but is stopped by Cole's gentle

pressure on his arm.

SIX PEOPLE in a large, barren, filthy room.  Cheap plastic storm

windows flap in the cold wind.  In the foreground the Man From

Another Place (Mike) and BOB sit at a formica table.  Behind them

on plastic torn chairs huddle MRS. TREMOND and her GRANDSON.  TWO

BIG WOODSMEN with full beards sit quietly.

He touches the table.

Bob begins to scream with anger.

The Man From Another Place raises his hand.

Bob claps his hand and a circle of fire appears in the room.

THROUGH THE CIRCLE

We see the RED ROOM.

ON THE SCENE

Bob crawls into the Red Room and Mike starts to yell and leaps in

after him.

Jeffries begins to cry quietly at his table.

After a hesitation, Albert gets the "message" and discreetly leaves

the room.

Cole tries to raise someone on the intercom but it doesn't seem to

have any juice.

He is getting nothing.  The static begins to build on the intercom.

The wiring in the wall and the flourescent lights start to hum as

well.

Hearing "May", Jeffries turns and stares at a _calendar_on_the_wall_.

Move into Jeffries.

CLOSEUP: JEFFRIES

Staring at the calendar.  it is 1989.

BACK ON THE SCENE

Cooper looks out of the room to see if anyone is coming to help Cole

who is still trying to get the intercom to work.  The static grows

even louder.

Cole turns back to Jeffries.  _But_there_is_no_one_there_.  Jeffries

is gone.  Papers from Cole's desk are now sticking to Jeffries chair.

Albert rushes back into the room.

Jeffries is suddenly standing in the second story hallway of the

Buenos Aires Palm Deluxe Hotel.  The wall behind him is seared black

and smoking.  A terrified MAID is whimpering and scampering away from

Jeffries trying to stave away an epileptic fit.  She is looking at

him like he is the devil personified.

The bellhop had run further away, but has turned back to see Jeffries

reappear.  He is afraid to come any closer.

They stare at each other as the blackened wall continues to smoke.

Cooper and Cole sit in front of the monitor.  Cooper plays back the

surveillance tape.  _It_shows_Jeffries_coming_up_behind_Cooper_.

_Then_moving_past_him_.  Cooper turns to Cole.

Laura Palmer continues down the sidewalk towards us.

On screen it reads:

Laura stops and turns.  We suddenly find ourselves in front of the

Hayward House.

LAURA'S POV

DONNA HAYWARD gathering her books and coming out the door.

Donna joins Laura.

Laura tweaks Donna's cheek.

Donna grabs her and shakes her shoulders.

They continue up the sidewalk laughing.

Establish.

On Laura and Donna as they walk in.

FIVE of their ADMIRERS watch Laura and Donna with love and worship.

They sing a kind of pining but cool CHANT with knees bent and arms

outstretched.

On Donna as they continue down the hall.  A cool MIKE NELSON snaps

his fingers ala Bobby for Donna to come to him.  Without missing a

beat Donna changes directions.  Mike has to hustle to catch up with

her.

JAMES HURLEY moves up behind Laura and pushes close to her.

James smiles and walks off.  Laura enters the girls' room.

Laura ducks into a stall and does a quick hit of cocaine.  The school

bell rings simultaneously.

BOBBY BRIGGS saunters into school - late as usual.  The corridor is

empty.  Everyone else is in class.  He walks to Laura's portrait in

the trophy case.  Kisses the glass protecting it.

He continues on happy and ultra-cool to his class.

It reads:  2:30.

James waits for Laura amidst the cleaning drums and brooms.  The door

swings open and Laura slides in wearing only a towel.  They embrace

in the half light.

He smiles.  She kisses him and he responds.

Laura moves into him.  A hopeless embrace.  His eyes full of hope and

Laura's empty.  She pulls him to the floor to make love.

A bell rings and, after a moment, STUDENTS and TEACHERS start to move

out.  Bobby catches up with Laura and Donna.

Bobby grabs her roughly and spins her around.  Students stop and

stare.

Bobby can't hold onto his anger.  Slowly a huge smile spreads across

his face.

Donna and Laura.  Eating nuts.  Donna is stretched out on the sofa

and Laura is in a chair with her legs over the top.  She is almost

upside down.  Nothing going on.

EILEEN HAYWARD rolls through the living room in her wheelchair and

makes a quick check of the nut supply.

Eileen motors out.

Laura looks at Donna.

Donna drifts off.

Both of them drift off.

Donna studies her friend and thinks about what she has said.  After

a beat.

They laugh.

Laura coming home from Donna's.

Laura comes in the front door.  No one seems to be home.

No answer - she heads up to her room.

Laura moves up to her bedroom.

Laura comes into her room and drops her books on her bed.  She goes

to the window and opens it - takes a package of cigarettes out, pulls

one out and lights it.

She goes to her "public" diary which she keeps on her desk.  Opens it

to page one takes out a packet full of cocaine.  Like a pro she takes

out her "cocaine gadget" from her purse and takes a snort.  Then

another.  Big sigh of relief.

Now she moves to her "private" diary behind her dresser - gets a pen,

ready to write and starts to freak out.  Pages are missing.  First,

she discovers one, then more.

Laura panics.  Dropping her cocaine gadget back into her purse and

taking her private diary, she sprints from the room.

Laura runs down the steps nearly colliding with her mom, SARAH PALMER,

coming home with a load of groceries.  A cigarette in her mouth.

Laura takes it out of her mouth.

Laura runs from the house.

Laura looks back to see her mom dangling the car keys in front of her.

Laura comes back to get the keys still holding the burning cigarette.

Sarah sternly takes the cigarette from Laura's hand.  As they make the

exchange.

Takes a drag.  With barely a nod, Laura is gone.

Laura speeds through Lotown in her mom's '56 Roadmaster Buick.

Laura skids up outside the apartment.  Then backs the car up to a

darker, more enclosed area amongst some trees.  Cautiously, she gets

out of the car and then hurries to Harold's door.

AT THE DOOR

Laura frantically knocks at the door.  HAROLD SMITH answers.

Laura rushes past him to the sofa, opening the book for him to see.

Stunned, Harold doesn't know what to do.

Laura starts towards him frightening Harold.

She allows the feeling of Bob to come over her and she begins to

scream.  Harold steps back, but Laura grabs him.  To his face with

a horrifying expression on hers.

She buries herself on his shoulder.

They break.

She stares at Harold.  Her eyes widen, terrified with suspicion.

He holds her.

Laura reaches up and tenderly touches his cheek.

She pulls him to her and kisses him passionately.

Laura slowly goes out the door.  Harold can only watch.

Laura goes out to the car.

Laura starts the car and takes a snort of cocaine.

Laura pulls out onto the highway.  We stay with her watching her

face - struggling with the prospects of the terrifying future.

Laura rushes in to find her mom setting the table.  Sarah stops and

stares at Laura.

Laura is already at the table.  Sarah puts the rest of the dinner on

the table and sits down just as LELAND PALMER enters from the kitchen.

He is pretending he is a giant.  Using a voice like a giant.

Translation is:  How are you?  My name is Leland Palmer.

Laura and Sarah stare at him.

Leland repeats his phrase for Sarah's benefit.

Sarah stumbles through it.

Leland repeats his phrase back to her.  Extends his hand in a friendly

handshake.

Laughingly, Laura does the same thing.

After Laura is done.

Leland extends a hand to each of them.  An air of insanity seems to

come over the Palmer dining room as they all begin to laugh

hysterically and talk in broken Norwegian.

The clock reads:  11:30.  Laura's hands open the window and release

the screen.  Laura silently sneaks out the window and down the side

of her house.

A big semi comes to a stop at a wide spot in the road.  Laura climbs

into the truck.

The TRUCKER smiles.  Eager.

Laura begins to unbutton her blouse.  Turns and sneaks a toot of

cocaine.

Laura puts her hand between his legs.

Momentarily taken aback, the trucker stares at her.  Laura takes his

hand and puts it on the gear shift.

She climbs over on top of him.

The stack blows.  The truck rolls away onto the road.  We watch it as

it moans into the distance - the sound slowly diminishing and fading.

Natures' nighttime sounds take over.  Finally, we hear the _hooting_

_of_an_owl_.

Reestablish.

Albert and Cooper.

Albert lets go a small laugh of disbelief and shakes his head in

exasperation.

Establish.

Laura comes out of the kitchen stacking some of her "Meals on Wheels"

on the counter.

On screen it reads:

NORMA JENNINGS and SHELLY JOHNSON watch from the cash register.

Shelly is ringing someone out, handing back their change.

With a little squeeze of the hand and a gentle shove, Norma moves

Shelly towards Laura who is at the end of the counter.

The door opens to the Diner and ED and NADINE HURLEY come in.  Nadine

stops when she sees Norma.

Nadine goes out.  As she walks past Ed he looks at Norma and makes a

"What can I do" gesture.

Ed goes out.

SHELLY AND LAURA

Shelly approaches sheepishly.

Shelly gathers up a pile of the dinners and takes them out to the

"Meals on Wheels" car.

Shelly loads her stuff in the back.  She returns to the diner and

Laura follows doing the same.

As Laura places her dinners in the back something catches her eye and

she turns.

LAURA'S POV

Mrs. Tremond and her grandson are standing in the parking lot staring

at Laura.  Mrs. Tremond waves to Laura to come over.  When Laura comes

to them Mrs. Tremond holds out a framed picture.

She hands Laura the picture.  It is a picture of a room with flowered

wallpaper and a dark doorway in its corner.  Laura's study of it is

interrupted by the grandson.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Shelly comes out of the Diner with another load of meals.  Laura turns

back to her and then back to the Tremonds, who are walking away from

her and are farther away than they realistically could be.  Laura

comes to Shelly in a panic.

Laura runs off.  Shelly puts her load into the car as she watches

Laura.

Shelly goes to Norma.

Norma just turns away and picks up some dirty dishes.

Shelly leaves the diner.

ON NORMA

In the empty diner Norma walks over and sits in a booth.  She studies

the empty diner.  After a while the cook, TOAD, calls from the

kitchen.  A distant forlorn call.

CLOSEUP:  ON NORMA

She starts to cry.

Laura runs home.  Holding the picture from Mrs. Tremond throughout.

LAURA'S POV

She stops and stares.  Her house suddenly looks very frightening to

her.  She slowly crosses her front yard and enters the house.

Laura comes in the front door still holding the picture.  She crosses

thru the dining room.

Laura moves ever so slowly up the stairs - the fan still and silent

above her.

At the top of the stairs, she stops and stares at her bedroom door.

Her whole body is shaking.  Her hand goes out in front of her.  She

touches her bedroom door and inches it open.

The opening of the door reveals more and more of her room.  Suddenly

it reveals Bob standing in her room at her dresser.  He has pulled

the dresser away from the wall looking for something.

ON BOB

He is frozen.  Smiling at her.

ON THE SCENE

With a scream, Laura bolts from her room.

Laura races out of the house still holding Tremond's picture.

Laura runs across two yards to a large tree and falls to her knees,

crying.  She looks up and sees her father come out the front door of

her house.  She watches him cross to his car and drive away.

Laura is coming apart, sobbing.  Behind her, on the sidewalk,

a NEIGHBOR has noticed her.

A closer look reveals how upset Laura is.

Laura turns away so the woman can't see her crying.  The woman takes

a couple of steps off the sidewalk onto the grass.

Laura mimes that she has found her gold half-heart necklace.  She

pretends to be clasping her gold half-heart necklace which was already

around her neck.

Woman moves back to the sidewalk.

Slowly, Laura stands and moves away - leaving Mrs. Tremond's picture

on the grass under the tree.

Laura stands in front of her house.  Terrified.

No Bob.  Listens to the house...  stands in the entrance way.

Laura listens.  Hears nothing.

She stops and stares at the fan then slowly makes her way up the

stairs towards her room.

No Bob in her room.  The dresser is back in its place.  Laura races

out.

Laura runs down the sidewalk.

Donna answers the door.  Laura stands there out of breath.

Laura dives toward Donna and into a hug.

They go in and sit down on the couch.

She digs for a cigarette in her purse.

They hear DOC HAYWARD in the kitchen.  He walks in with a magician's

handkerchief.  With a flourish he tries to pull something out of it.

Instead he stands there empty handed.

Laura finds a cigarette finally and lights it.

Eileen Hayward brings out the muffins on her lap in her wheel chair.

All four have muffins.

While eating Doc takes out a piece of paper and stares blankly at it.

The girls exchange glances about what Dad is doing as they chew on

the muffins.  Doc is struggling.

Donna peeks over his shoulder.

They go over to Doc and give him a knuckle rub.  Eileen laughs along

with the two girls.  The phone rings and Doc gets it.

Laura goes tentatively to the phone.

Laura hangs up the phone.

Donna leads Laura to the door.  There is something wrong and Donna

is beginning to feel it.  Donna tries to cheer her up.

Laura leaves.  As Donna closes the door, Laura calls back to her.

Laura comes in the door and there is Leland at the dining room table

ready for dinner.  Leland sees her.

Laura just plops into her seat.

From across the table Leland looks at her fingernails.  He stands to

come for a closer look.

CLOSEUP: LAURA'S RING FINGERNAIL

Sarah, cigarette draped from her lips, is delivering some mashed

potatoes to the table.

He is looking at THE FINGER.

He reaches for it.  Laura's hand flies up and stops him.  Leland's

other hand comes up and she lets him take the HALF HEART out.

Laura has no response.

Leland starts pinching Laura's cheek.

A beat then a return to what is normal.

Leland sits stoically.  Laura rises from the table.

As Laura washes her hands, she stares at her reflection.  Terrified.

LAURA'S CLOCK

It says:  10:35.

Sarah and Leland get ready for bed.  Leland stops, stands frozen for

a moment, then begins to cry.

Leland can barely speak.

Sarah goes to Leland.  They embrace, tenderly, across the many years

of their strained marriage.

Laura stares at the hands of the clock.  With a start, she looks up.

Her father is in her room.  He stands in the doorway.

He moves to her and touches her face.

Laura can hardly speak.  She squeezes his hand.

He leaves the room.  Laura watches the door close.  She sits frozen

for a moment, with a tear in her eye, then she remembers something.

MRS. TREMOND'S PICTURE

The picture lies there in the night dew under the tree in the

neighbor's yard.

Laura goes down the trellises and runs across the lawn.

Laura hunts around the tree for the picture, finally finds it.  She

runs back towards her house.

Laura climbs through the window and hangs the picture on a little

hook on the wall and crawls into bed.  She turns off the light and

stares at the picture in the dark.

She is asleep.

We hold on the picture.  As if by magic, we suddenly begin to move

into the picture - into the room in the picture and thru the dark

doorway in the room in the picture.

On the other side of the dark doorway there is another room.

Mrs. Tremond is standing in that room.  She is beckoning us towards

her and beyond her thru yet another doorway.  We move thru the second

doorway and on the other side of that doorway there is another room.

Mrs. Tremond's grandson is standing in that room.  He is holding his

hands above him as if he is grasping an imaginary glass ball.  As we

move towards the space between his hands a ring of fire appears there

and we move thru that into...

The MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE walks into the red room to a table.

A ring lies upon the table.

COOPER ENTERS THE RED ROOM.  The Man From Another Place turns toward

Cooper.

The Man From Another Place puts his hand in front of his lips and

makes an Indian Whooping sound.

The Man From Another Place picks up the ring and moves it very close

to us.  We recognize it as Teresa Banks' ring.  The symbols on the

ring are identical to the symbols of Owl Cave.

Cooper seems concerned.

The Man From Another Place moves the ring towards us till the ring

fills the screen.

Laura in a somnambular state is half awakened by a noise.  She tries

to move her left arm, but it has fallen asleep.  She moves it with

her right arm.

SFX: THE NOISE

It sounds as if someone is calling her name.

ON LAURA

She turns to her right to see who it is, then turning back to her left

she discovers ANNIE BLACKBURN lying in bed with her.  Annie has blood

around her mouth.  She tries to raise herself and strains to speak.

ON LAURA'S DOOR

Her mother calls her name.  The sound is distant and mournful.

ON LAURA

Laura looks towards her door then turns back to Annie but she is gone.

Filled with fear she looks down and in her hand is Teresa Banks' ring.

SHE SCREAMS.  Again, her attention is drawn to her door and her

mother's distant call.  Still holding the ring she gets out of bed

and goes to her door and slowly opens it.

It is dark on the other side of the door.

AT THE DOORWAY OF LAURA'S BEDROOM

In the doorway Laura gets a strange feeling in back of her and turns

to look at Mrs. Tremond's picture.  There in the picture is Laura

(herself) in the doorway looking back into the darkened rooms where

Mrs. Tremond and her grandson were.

Laura is in the picture.  In the picture Laura turns around in the

doorway of the picture and looks down at her room.

Laura sees herself asleep in her bed.

CLOSEUP: LAURA

Asleep in her bed.

ON THE SCENE

She wakes up from her dream.  Trying to clear her head.  Looks at the

photo and nothing is there -- looks like the day before.  She looks

in her hand and the ring is gone.

Laura gets out of bed and goes to Mrs. Tremond's picture hanging on

the wall.  She stares at it.  She slowly takes it off the wall and

places it in the trash.  Trembling she does two lines of cocaine.

Reestablish.

On screen it reads:

James comes by on his bike.  He beeps out a signal on the bike's horn.

After a beat Laura runs out to him.

Leland comes out the door of the house.  Looks at Laura and James.

Laura can feel him staring.

James just looks at her then guns his bike and roars away.

Laura walks back to the front door where her father stands.

Laura looks at her Dad, eyeball to eyeball for a moment.  Then she

walks past him to the stairs.

The fan turns slowly as Laura goes up the stairs.

Laura's head snaps around.

Sarah Palmer is at the bottom of the stairs.

Laura jumps.

Sarah looks down.  She is wearing the sweater that she is looking for.

Laura starts down the stairs towards her mother.

Laura holds her mother.

Sarah pulls away from Laura and wanders into the living room.  Laura

watches her go feeling helpless.

LEO JOHNSON is ragging on Shelly.  He is down on his hands and knees

showing her how to scrub the floor.

He scrubs more.

Leo goes over the top pulls Shelly down to the floor.

Gives her a good shot to the back of the head.  Shelly falls to the

floor.  The phone rings.  Leo gets up to get the phone.

He answers the phone.

Leo looks over at Shelly suspiciously.  (Did she hear him mention the

five thousand?)

Bobby is calling from the pay phone at the diner.  We hear the end of

the conversation with Leo.  Bobby hangs up.  He puts in another

quarter and dials again.  The phone rings on the other end.

A nearly empty Roadhouse.  JACQUES RENAULT answers the phone behind

the bar.

BOBBY

Bobby starts to write information down on a napkin.

Donna drives up in her car and gets out.

Laura is having a quick shot from the family liquor cabinet.  A knock

on the door.  Laura pulls a jacket on and goes to the door.  Opens it

and sees Donna.  Donna looks at her coat.

They move back into the living room.

Laura shoots her a look.

Donna looks around at all the ashtrays filled to the brim with butts.

Laura leaves the house.  Donna trails behind.

Laura gets into her Mom's Roadmaster and takes off.  Donna watches

her go and gets in her car and follows.

At the first stop sign Laura takes another hit of cocaine.

Laura parks her car and gets out.  At the entrance to the Roadhouse

she meets the LOG LADY, who seems to be waiting for her.  She steps

close to Laura.

The Log Lady touches her.  Her hand is cooling on Laura's head.

Laura moves in behind it.  Pushing the cool hand into her face and

forehead.

They look into each other's eyes.  The Log Lady turns and leaves.

LOTS OF BIKERS and the usual gang.  On stage a SINGER sings.

As Laura comes in she makes eye contact with Jacques Renault who is

behind the bar.  Laura sits at a table.

Jacques nods to a COUPLE of BURLY TRUCKERS who come over to Laura

with drinks.  One of them slides her a fifty with a packet of cocaine

inside.

They all take a drink.

Laura reaches below the table grabbing him hard by the balls.

The trucker turns a couple of shades towards white.  Donna comes in

just as a beautiful song of lost love begins.

Laura and Donna see each other -- As the truckers toss down bourbons

and beer chasers, Laura gets _lost_in_the_song_and_starts_to_cry_.

Donna just stares at her from the other side of the Roadhouse.

AFTER THE SONG

Donna stands and walks over to Laura's table.  She reaches down,

picks up one of the trucker's bourbons and downs it.

Laura and Donna stare at each other.  For Donna's benefit, Laura

turns and gives a big, juicy French kiss to one of the truckers.

Donna grabs Buck's buddy, TOMMY, and gives him the same type kiss.

The car barrels down the highway.  It's a beat up Chevy Biscayne,

with a hot monster engine under the hood.

Tommy drives sitting next to a case of ice cold beer.  Donna and

Laura sandwich Buck in the back seat.  Donna takes a long swig of

beer.  Laura hides a hit of cocaine from Donna.

Laura laughs at Donna then holds a beer up to show Donna, then turns

and French kisses Buck.  Donna reaches forward to the front dash and

turns the radio up full blast.  Buck and Tommy start to whoop and

yodel like cowboys.

Buck does an Indian whoop in Laura's face.  Laura freezes in horror.

The Man From Another Place (The Arm) yodels.

Slowly Laura reaches over and touches Buck's face and arm.  Buck

uncorks another yodel.  The fear leaves Laura.

Donna starts making out with Buck.

Establish.  Tommy takes the car like a rocket into the parking lot

and does a complete three sixty before rocking to a stop.  Several

big rigs shadow the lot.  They all pop out of Buck's car sporting

"long necks".

Laura takes a hit of cocaine and looks up to see Donna watching.

Buck circles Donna with his big arm and puts a toot under her nose.

Tommy stands in the lot with his back to them, pissing.

The front room is a bar and restaurant with about THREE PATRONS.

Above the bar is a sign that reads:

The BARTENDER presses a release underneath the counter that allows

Laura to take her three friends thru a door over which a sign hangs

announcing in red neon letters:

The group enters a large room with the filthiest wall to wall carpet

imaginable.  In the back corner is a small stage.  On it a three

piece HELL-METAL BAND is building up toward oblivion.  The LEAD SINGER

is dressed in a buffalo skin complete with at least half the buffalo

head and horns.  He wears spray painted, day glow orange cowboy boots.

Some HALF DRESSED GIRLS and COWBOYS are dancing to the band.  In

darkened corners away from the stage other groups are racing the

band to oblivion.

Laura leans over to Donna noticing her shocked look.

Jacques Renault comes up to the group.

He grabs Laura up and gives her a big, sloppy wet kiss.

The two truckers laugh with Jacques.  He mimes a gun with his right

hand and pointing it to his forehead pulls the trigger with a weak,

slack cheeked puff sound.

Laura winks at Buck as he SECRETLY drops a red depth charge into

Donna's beer.

As the cowboys gather around and begin to chant, both Laura and Donna

chug down their drinks.  They finish and Laura smiles and pushes

Donna out onto the dance floor.

They start to dance expertly and smile at each other.  Soon Buck and

Tommy cut in separating the two.

Buck dances Laura over to ANOTHER of his buddies.  The two of them

start to unbutton Laura's blouse as they dance.

The hell-metal band kicks into high gear.  In the pulsating red and

black light Donna sees Laura now topless dancing and kissing with

Buck and his friend.  Donna stops.  Jacques sweeps in.

Jacques holds her head in his huge hands.

DONNA'S POV

The room starts to spin.

WE MOVE AROUND THRU THE EVENING

DONNA

A completely stoned Donna is being dances around by Tommy, who is

falling in love with her.  Through some dancing legs and feet she

spots Laura's blouse on the floor.  Teetering she leans over, picks

up the blouse, and ties it around her waist.

RONETTE PULASKI, flying high, makes her way through the crowd to

Laura.  They spot each other and give each other a hug.

Jacques comes up to them.

The three of them move around together.

Ronette, Laura, and Jacques sway with distorted smiles.

Buck and another FRIEND move in on Laura and Ronette.  Buck pushes

Laura down on the carpet and gets on behind her.  His friend does

the same to Ronette.  The two girls find themselves face to face.

Ronette looks over Laura's shoulder.

Laura looks across the rug through dancing legs and sees Donna's head

tilted way back with some NEW COWBOY on top of her.

CLOSEUP: LAURA'S FACE

Seeing Donna.

ON THE SCENE

Laura stumbles and runs to Donna grabbing Jacques on the way.

He doesn't seem to be listening.

Laura falls full of panic to Donna.

Rips her blouse off her waist.  Donna is completely gone.  Laura

shakes her and screams into her face.

Jacques lifts Donna up and Laura follows Jacques and Donna out of

Partyland.  Donna continues to mumble.

On the screen it reads:

FOLKS filing out of church.  A COUPLE strolling down the sidewalk.

A happy dog bounds about.

Out in the yard of the Hurley House Ed Hurley tries to skin a deer

which is hanging off a branch of a tree.  He is not having much luck

and is not showing much enthusiasm either.  Nadine Hurley comes

storming out the house with her own very large butcher knife - very

upset with Ed's progress.

Ed backs off and Nadine dives in slicing.

Ed slowly backs into the house.

Ed joins his assistant, SPARKY, and they stand in the living room

gazing out the window at Nadine ferociously skinning the deer.

They laugh.

SHERIFF TRUMAN and JOSIE PACKARD break from a kiss.  Smiling, Truman

goes back to gently strumming his guitar.

He plays the guitar for Josie.  Then stops.

PHILIP GERARD, the one armed man, in a deep sweat kneels in front of

a circle of twelve lit candles, fighting for air and struggling to

hear something.

Donna and Laura sit across from one another on the couch.

She takes Donna's head into her hands and kisses her.

ON LELAND

Leland is standing at the other end of the room.  As he stares at the

girls we move in on his face.

LELAND FLASHBACK

Leland looking into another room seeing Laura and Ronette sitting face

to face on a bed.

Leland looking at the girls.

Laura turns to him with a start.

Leland and Laura leave.

Leland and Laura drive along.  Leland becomes preoccupied with

something in his rear view mirror.  Laura turns to see a car

erratically coming up behind them.  Leland slows down and stops for

a red light at Sparkwood and Twenty One.  In front of them is a huge

logging truck.  Laura smells something.

Leland turns and gives her a look.

The car that was tailing them races around them, races around the

logging truck, and comes back around stopping on Leland's side of

the car.

Leland spots Gerard, the one armed man, behind the wheel - sweating

like crazy.

Leland starts to rev his engine while holding the brake with his left

foot.

Leland is panicked.  The car is slowly screeching towards the large

lumber truck in front of them.

The car is now smoking and making a horrendous sound.  Gerard

continues to yell, but we can barely hear it.

Leland turns to Laura.  Sweat pours from his forehead.

While Leland is turned away, Gerard holds up his hand with a ring on

the little finger.  He is shouting over the engine noise and the horn

which Leland has begun to blow frantically.

Laura can't make this out over the noise.

The light turns green.  Gerard takes off away from them.  As soon as

the logging truck moves Leland lets go of the brake and the car flies

into a service station on their right.  Everyone around there has been

watching a commotion on a Sunday afternoon.

A YOUNG MECHANIC runs up to their car.

Leland stares at Laura trying to compose himself.

CU FLESH WORLD MAGAZINE/LELAND FLASHBACK

The Title "Fleshworld" on a magazine.  In the magazine we see Leland

find a picture of Teresa Banks.  He whispers.

Leland dials the phone.

CU TERESA BANKS

She is talking on the phone.

LELAND

On top of Teresa in bed.  All whispers.

He kisses her and covers her eyes with a hand.

End of flashback.

Leland is still sitting and staring at Laura.

Open on a sign saying Blue Diamond City Motel.

Leland comes down an outside walkway towards an open room.  Suddenly,

he stops short and jumps back.  He cautiously takes a second look and

sees Laura and Ronette sitting on the edge of a king size bed talking.

Leland is about to leave when there is a tap, tap, tap on his back.

He spins around to see Teresa Banks who has come up behind him.

He shoves a wad of money into her hand and practically runs away.

Teresa cocks her head and wonders, while she watches him hurry away.

End of Flashback.

Leland and Laura are in the car.  Leland starts the car.

Leland pulls out onto the road.  After they drive for a bit.

Laura studies the look in her father's eye as long as she dares and

then turns away.

CLOSEUP: LELAND

As he drives along.

Teresa watching with her head cocked as Leland hurries off.

JACQUES ON THE PHONE

ON TERESA

Teresa hangs up the phone and redials - smiling as though she has won

the lottery.

ON LELAND

He answers the phone.

ON LELAND'S FACE

His jaw tightens.

Leland pulls the car into the Double R.  Sarah stands out front

waving.

It reads:  8:00.

Laura sits at her desk staring off into space.

Laura remembers the one armed man yelling out to her.  Her attention

now goes to his one hand.  She remembers the look of the ring he was

wearing.

Then she remembers the Man From Another Place giving her the ring in

her dream.  It is the same ring.

Then she remembers being in the Blue Diamond City Motel with Ronette

when Teresa entered the room.

Teresa sits down between them and brings them close to her in a sexual

embrace.  Teresa brushes away some hair that has fallen over her face.

As she does this Laura sees the SAME RING.

END OF FLASHBACK

Laura is jolted by Bob's Voice.

Leland pacing the living room.

_Nighttime_in_the_woods_.  We see Leland crush Teresa Banks' face and

skull with a pipe until she is dead.  We hear the gurgling of the

Wind River behind her.

END OF FLASHBACK

BACK ON LELAND

Leland continues to pace.  He wipes some sweat from his forehead.

A sign on the screen reads:

Laura sits at the dining room table eating her breakfast.  Leland

pokes his head in.

Laura's hands are shaking as she does a line of cocaine.  It is the

last stuff she has -- she puts the empty packet into her diary.

Laura corners Bobby in a hallway.

She takes off down the hall.  Rounding another corner she sees James

coming towards her.  James looks around to see if the coast is clear

and seeing it is, moves close to her.

Laura keeps going.  Donna comes around next to James.  Together they

watch Laura walk away.

Establish

Open on Laura's picture on top of Ben Horne's desk.  Then discover

that Leland is staring at Laura's picture.

Wider we see BENJAMIN HORNE trying to blow up a large rubber Indian

for his son JOHNNY.  SYLVIA and JERRY HORNE stand nearby supervising.

Johnny comes up one inch in front of Leland's face.

Johnny moves to one inch in front of Jerry's face.

Ben reacts to a huge moccasin print in the middle of the birthday cake

in the middle of his office floor.

They look down and see Johnny's foot completely ringed in white

frosting roses.  Frosted footprints trail behind him everywhere.

Johnny goes one inch in front of Laura's picture.

Leland looks again at Laura's picture.  He looks up at Ben.

That sets Sylvia off again.

Johnny moves one inch in front of Ben.

As they talk Johnny circles the blowup Indian and with a mighty bang

pops it with his tomahawk.  "Bang".

TOMMY "THE HAWK" HILL, Truman and ANDY BRENNAN.

Laura quietly lets herself in.  Ben looks up, happy to see her.

August 8, 1991                                                  102.

He wiggles a packet of cocaine in front of her and she steps to him.

She moves in closer and kisses him.  He responds.

Bobby roars thru the night with his radio blasting.

Reestablish.

Her clock reads:  10:59.  We move across to get a glimpse of Laura

going out the window.

Bobby's car skids to a stop and Laura jumps in.

Whipping down a country road.

Laura and Bobby tooting coke as they fly thru the night.

August 8, 1991                                                  103.

He does a big clown laugh.  Laura erupts with the giggles.  They toot

up some more.  Bobby tromps on the gas.

Pete Martell's POWDER BLUE PICKUP passes them going the other way.

We stay on the pickup as it pulls into Big Ed's Gas Farm.

PETE MARTELL pulls into the station.  Big Ed comes out to meet him.

Ed laughs.

August 8, 1991                                                  104.

Ed starts to clean his windshield.  Pete points out something on the

windshield.

Ed puts his head inside the truck.

Pete starts to clean the inside of his windshield while Ed returns to

work on the outside.

Bobby and Laura pull into a little clearing.  Bobby kills the lights.

The doors open.  Laura and Bobby start to make their way thru the

woods.

Laura and Bobby continue thru the woods.  It gets spookier and

spookier.

They reach the meeting place.  Awesomely quiet until a twig snaps,

then a distant howling of a wolf.

Bobby and Laura sit on the floor of the woods and do some more toot.

Laura picks up a leaf and shows it to Bobby.

August 8, 1991                                                  105.

After a moment of staring at it, they both begin to giggle.  She

picks up a twig.

They giggle twice as hard.  Laura picks up a pinecone and starts

knocking him on the head with it.

They giggle three times as hard and start crawling around giggling.

Suddenly, they hear footsteps.  They freeze and try to stifle their

giggles.

They both start laughing again.  They see a guy coming through the

woods.  We recognize him as the sullen deputy from Deer Meadow,

Cliff Howard.

The deputy takes out a very big bag of coke, showing it to them.

Laura just grabs it out of his hand.  The deputy takes out his gun.

Bobby panics and pulls out his gun.  BANG!!

Bobby shoots the deputy in the shoulder, but the deputy still prepares

to shoot at Bobby so Bobby shoots him again.  This time in the chest.

The deputy spins and tries to run, but Bobby shoots him in the back.

He topples over dead.

August 8, 1991                                                  106.

BOBBY AND LAURA

They stand there frozen.  Absolutely no more giggles.

They just stand there looking at the dead body.

Bobby starts for the dead body.

With Laura's help they get the body back to the clearing.  They fall

down to their knees, out of breath, staring at what they have done.

Their faces register the shock of having just killed someone.  Laura

looks at Bobby's stunned expression.

A laugh squirts out of Laura.  Bobby turns to her in disbelief.

Bobby stares at her for a second like Laura has gone insane.

Bobby breaks.  They begin to laugh uncontrollably.

Wide shot.  The distant sounds of Bobby and Laura laughing.  Up

closer the wind takes over and even closer the hooting of an owl.

August 8, 1991                                                  107.

THE FAN SPINNING

Then - THE FAN'S POV down on Laura entering the stairwell.  We drift

down on Laura.

Laura stops cold on the stairway.

ECU: LAURA

Laura looking up petrified.

The trophy case with Laura's homecoming queen picture within.

On screen it reads:

Bobby catches up with Laura in front of her locker.  He shows her the

ten thousand they were going to use to pay for the drugs last night.

Bobby is about to get really pissed when Laura starts laughing again.

Bobby fights to stay in control.

August 8, 1991                                                  108.

Laura stifles her laugh with all her might.  Bobby hands her the

money.  After a beat Laura starts to laugh, but stops herself again

by biting her lip.  Bobby is furious and scared.  Laura covers her

mouth.  Bobby breaks again.

Bobby's car skids to a stop.  Bobby jumps out and pops the trunk.

He unwraps the big bag of cocaine from a blanket.  He tears a little

hole in it to enjoy a taste test.  The second it touches the tongue

he panics and frantically takes a deeper test.

He sprays and throws the powder every which way in a rage.

Laura lies in bed.  She leans over to the bedside table and snorts a

line.  The phone rings and startles her.  She answers it.

JACOBY on the phone.

August 8, 1991                                                  109.

She hangs up.

Sarah at her vanity, puts a cigarette out and walks to her bed as

Leland brings up a big glass of warm milk to her.

Sarah looks up at Leland and they share a look as she drinks the milk.

After Sarah finishes her milk Leland walks into the hallway.

Leland hits the fan switch.

THE FAN COMES TO LIFE

Laura freezes when she hears the fan.  She closes her eyes.

Sarah's head is nodding.  Her heavy eyelids close.  Her eyes pop open

once more.  Sarah sees the white horse in her room.  She falls asleep.

The room is dark.  Laura is pressed up against the headboard of her

bed staring at the window.  The fan ominously whirls in the hall.

Bob appears in her window and enters the room.

Bob moves down on top of her.  His hand moves between her legs.  Laura

August 8, 1991                                                  110.

fights with all her might to keep staring at his face.  To know it.

To unlock it.  Her hands go up.  She holds his face...  squeezes it

as he moves on top of her.

Slowly, what she always knew deep inside of her becomes clear.

BOB BECOMES LELAND.

She screams and passes out into hell.

CLOSEUP:  BOWL OF SOGGY CEREAL

On screen it reads:

ON THE SCENE

Sarah sits at the dining room table smoking.  Laura pushes her spoon

around in the soggy cereal.  Leland stares at her.

Laura gets up and leaves the room.  Leland stares at the empty door.

He waits for a moment and then follows her.  Sarah, nervously,

watches him go.

Laura is getting her school materials together when Leland enters.

Never taking her eyes off him, she works her way around him and

leaves the room.

We stay on Leland.  His face changes.  He knows she knows and he

knows what he has to do.

Laura walks to school.  All the beautiful, natural sounds of morning

sound like hell to her.  Distorted chants from hell.

August 8, 1991                                                  111.

Laura studies the clock hand going round and round.  Every sound in

the room is distorted.

THE BELL RINGS

IN SLOW MOTION

Laura rises from her chair.  Camera stays on her empty chair.  The

chair she will never sit in again.

A PLATE OF ASPARAGUS.  The mashed potatoes and the roast beef have

been mostly eaten.  On screen it reads:

Laura and her mother sit, eating alone.

They eat in silence for a moment.

MRS. BETTY BRIGGS lets Laura in the front door.

August 8, 1991                                                  112.

GARLAND BRIGGS chuckles off screen.

Laura comes down stairs and sees Bobby lying on the floor.  His hands

covering his eyes.

Laura sits down next to him.

August 8, 1991                                                  113.

Laura smiles and leans forward.  She kisses him and he responds.

They kiss again.  He looks up and listens for his parents.

Bobby sees that she is not in the mood.

Laura stares at him.

He reaches in his pocket and gives her a nice bag of coke plus pills.

They head upstairs.

August 8, 1991                                                  114.

Mr. Briggs is reading aloud to Mrs. Briggs from the book of

Revelations.  As Bobby hears this he turns to Laura and makes a look

of horror which says, "Can you believe I live here".  Laura smiles.

Bobby takes Laura to the door.  He gives her a small kiss, "Good

Night".  After she leaves he cuts back thru the living room and just

as he clears the room he lights up.

And Briggs returns to the Bible.

Sheriff Truman and Andy sit at the small table with doughnuts and

coffee.  Andy monitors the radio.  LUCY MORAN cuts thru on the

intercom.

Truman hits the intercom button.

He releases the intercom button.  But Lucy continues to talk over the

intercom.

August 8, 1991                                                  115.

Truman stands up, puts on his gun and leaves.  Lucy's voice continues

as we watch Andy sit there alone.

Over the intercom Andy hears Lucy make a small hysterical cry.  He

stands and runs from the room.  Stay on the intercom.  Lucy's voice

continues.

Lucy gets up from the intercom.

She races from her station and collides with Andy coming up from the

interrogation room.  They both scream.

Sarah sits smoking and reading a cheap magazine as Laura moves thru

the living room.

Laura moves up the stairs.

She does three lines of Bobby's cocaine.

ON THE CLOCK IN HER ROOM

It reads:  9:30.

ON LAURA

Trying to hold on.  The phone rings.

She hangs up the phone and does another line of cocaine then swallows

down a handful of red round friends from Bobby - the pills.

As Laura sneaks out she sees her dad coming home.

LELAND

Leland comes out of the car.  Laura ducks into some bushes and hides.

Leland stops in the middle of the yard sensing something.  He looks

right at where Laura is hiding.  She can't tell if he can see her or

not.

CLOSEUP: LAURA

She hears James' bike coming in the distance.

James' bike sounds closer and closer.  Leland turns, opens the front

door and goes into the house.

James drives up.  Leland's face appears looking out the front window.

Laura jumps on the bike behind James and off they go.

James and Laura drive thru the night.

James brings the bike thru the woods and stops in the little clearing.

James tries to kiss Laura, she pushes him away.

She gives him a terrible slap.

They kiss again.  Hot.  Hands everywhere.

James grabs her trying to control her.  She twists out of his arms.

She lifts her hand and gives him the finger.  James ignores the

finger and kisses her, but she's gone ice cold.

She leads him back to the bike.  He won't start it.

He kicks the bike to a start.  Behind him, Laura watches and silently

starts to cry.

Laura and James on the bike make their way down to Sparkwood and

Twenty One.

Laura leans way back on the bike.

LAURA'S POV

Looking up at the trees as they fly by in a dark blur.

LAURA AND JAMES

Laura screams with agony and tries to get off as they approach the

light.  Laura falls off as they skid to a stop.

Laura crawls back up and puts her hands around James' neck.

For a moment she focuses on him.  She looks like the Laura that James

loves.  Innocent and Beautiful.

Laura turns and sees the woods.  It pulls her.  She releases her hold

on James and runs into the waiting darkness.

The red light swings in the wind above James.  It turns green, but he

doesn't move.  When the light turns red again, James guns the engine

and lifts the bike up on its back tire.  James screams then roars down

the road away from us.

Off to the side of the road lies Doc Hayward's wilted red rose.

Laura runs up thru the woods.  At the Packard Logging Road Laura

meets Jacques, Leo and Ronette all standing around Leo's red corvette.

They pile into Leo's 'Vet and peel down the dirt road.

The foursome getting roasted and toasted - very high.

Jacques starts to tie Laura up with some light rope.

Jacques and Leo laugh.  Jacques starts to tie Laura up while Leo holds

her.  Laura struggles and screams begging them not to do it.  With

Laura tied up, Leo starts to tie up Ronette.

Both girls are half naked and have been tied up.  WALDO the bird is

screeching.  Jacques is straddling Laura and is hurting her badly.

Leo puts a One Eyed Jacks THOUSAND DOLLAR POKER CHIP in her mouth.

Like a ghost Leland appears in the window.

No one sees him.

Laura continues to scream.  Leo gets up and goes for the bottle of

bourbon.  He takes a swig and then steps back to Jacques and Laura.

Leo holds the bottle tight.  Jacques stands up and decks Leo with his

big French Canadian paw.  He grabs the spilling bottle from the floor

and stumbles outside.

When Jacques comes out of the cabin, Leland trips him, grabs the

bottle and breaks it over Jacques head, knocking him out cold.

Leo hears the crash and comes outside.  He sees Jacques bleeding on

the ground.  He panics and weaves down the hill to his corvette and

takes off.

Leland goes into the cabin.  His smiling eyes are on Laura while he

rapes Ronette.  Laura watches as her fear drives her to hysteria.

In the darkness the Log Lady holds her log and listens.  She hears

distant screams.  The camera moves down her leg to reveal her tattoo,

beet red and burning.

Philip Gerard, the one-armed man, runs like a madman up the trail

towards Jacques' cabin.

With the face of the devil, Leland double time marches Laura and

Ronette out the cabin door and thru the woods.

Gasping for breath Gerard arrives at the cabin too late.  He stares

at the open doorway.  Jacques lies passed out at his feet.  Gerard

cocks his head straining to hear something.  He hears distant screams.

Leland hauls the two girls into the train car.

He SLIDES THE DOOR SHUT and it is completely quiet.

BOB AND LELAND going in and out like breathing.  The two girls shudder

in the corner as he circles them.

Leland grabs Laura and begins to wrap the twine around her arms

bending the arms back.

Gerard tearing thru the woods.  The wind comes up carrying with it

cries and screams and the sounds of BOB.

Leland hoists Laura up so that she hovers facing the floor a foot

off the ground.  He places a mirror on the floor directly under her

face.

IN THE MIRROR

Laura sees herself turn into Bob.  Leland screams into space.

Gerard arrives outside.  He bangs on the train door.

The door opens a little bit because Ronette is pushing it with her

feet.  Gerard reaches up to help her when suddenly she flies over

his head having been hit.

Ronette hits the ground, her unconscious head bent back at an odd

angle.

ECU: GERARD

He listens to the sounds of murder inside the train car.

Laura screaming

Knife entering flesh.

Bob screaming.

Bloody knife thru the air.

Leland screaming.

ECU: GERARD

Gerard leans in to take a look and steps back laughing.  he yells out

for Bob to hear.

He continues to laugh and runs away from the train car.

A few moments later Leland stumbles out of the car carrying the body

of Laura Palmer wrapped in a plastic shroud.  Leland's shirt is puffed

out - a bloody towel inside.

Leland/Bob lowers the plastic shrouded Laura into the river.

Leland stumbles to the centre of Glastonbury Grove and stops.  A

frightening wind carries haunting music.  He digs into his pockets

for the pages torn from Laura's secret diary.  he tosses them and

the bloody towel to the wind.

He goes to the centre of the circle of the twelve sycamore trees.

The red curtains appear and he passes between them entering the red

Room.

It is not empty.  Gerard is just leaving the other side of the room.

LELAND walks thru the Red Room after him.  He walks down a corridor

and _into_the_Red_Room_again_.

There on the other side of the room Leland sees Gerard and the Man

From Another Place sitting side by side in a chair facing him.

Leland stops when he sees them.  He divides.  One half becomes Bob -

opaque.  The other half floats up and becomes Leland - transparent.

ON BOB

He reaches up and grabs Leland's wound.

ECU - LELAND'S WOUND

Bob heals Leland's wound.

ON THE SCENE.

Gerard and the Man From Another Place speak in unison.

At high tide Laura Palmer's body is floating up to and bumping against

the logs.

On screen it reads:

Annie is being brought in on a stretcher.  A NURSE talks to a

PARAMEDIC as they rush her towards the emergency room.

The Man From Another Place stands with Cooper.

The Man From Another Place puts his hand in front of his lips and

makes an Indian Whooping sound.

A pause.

The Man From Another Place begins to laugh uncontrollably.

A NURSE mops the sweat from Annie's forehead.  Annie tries to get

thru to her.

The nurse pats Annie's forehead and takes her hand.  We see

_TERESA/LAURA'S_RING_ on Annie's ring finger.  The nurse gently

slides the ring off Annie's finger.

The nurse enters.  With an anticipatory smile, then a selfish laugh,

she puts the ring on her finger.

Doc Hayward and Sheriff Truman watch the door of the bathroom

anxiously.

Not getting any response Truman breaks open the door.

Cooper, in his pajamas, lies on the floor.  The mirror above the sink

is shattered with blood all over it and the sink.  Cooper smiles up

at them strangely.

Doc and Truman help Cooper up.

Cooper smiles at the uneasy pair.

Laura is sitting in a chair.  As the end credits begin...

We move back to see that Laura is sitting in Cooper's lap in the

same chair.

