CHARACTERS

WALTER NEFF

PHYLLIS DIETRICHSON

BARTON KEYES

LOLA DIETRICHSON

MR. DIETRICHSON

NINO ZACHETTI

MR. NORTON

MR. JACKSON

SAM GORLOPIS

FADE IN:

A-1 LOS ANGELES - A DOWNTOWN INTERSECTION

It is night, about two o'clock, very light traffic.

At the left and in the immediate foreground a semaphore

traffic signal stands at GO. Approaching it at about thirty

miles per hour is a Dodge 1938 coupe. It is driven erratically

and weaving a little, but not out of control.

When the car is about forty feet away, the signal changes to

STOP. Car makes no attempt to stop but comes on through.

A-2 A LIGHT NEWSPAPER TRUCK

is crossing the intersection at right angles. It swerves and

skids to avoid the Dodge, which goes on as though nothing

had happened. The truck stops with a panicky screech of tires.

There is a large sign on the truck: "READ THE LOS ANGELES

TIMES". The truck driver's infuriated face stares after the

coupe.

A-3 THE COUPE

continues along the street, still weaving, then slows down

and pulls over towards the curb in front of a tall office

building.

A-4 THE COUPE

stops. The headlights are turned off. For a second nothing

happens, then the car door opens slowly. A man eases himself

out onto the sidewalk and stands a moment leaning on the

open door to support himself. He's a tall man, about thirty-

five years old. From the way he moves there seems to be

something wrong with his left shoulder.

He straightens up and painfully lowers his left hand into

his jacket pocket. He leans into the car. He brings out a

light-weight overcoat and drapes it across his shoulders. He

shuts the car door and walks toward the building.

A-5 ENTRANCE OF THE BUILDING

Above the closed, double-plate glass doors is lettered:

"PACIFIC BUILDING". To the left of entrance there is a

drugstore, closed, dark except for a faint light in the back.

The man comes stiffly up to the doors. (CAMERA HAS MOVED UP

WITH HIM). He tries the doors. They are locked. He knocks on

the glass. Inside, over his shoulder, the lobby of the

building is visible: a side entrance to the drugstore on the

left, in the rear a barber shop and cigar and magazine stand

closed up for the night, and to the right two elevators. One

elevator is open and its dome light falls across the dark

lobby.

The man knocks again. The night watchman sticks his head out

of the elevator and looks toward entrance. He comes out with

a newspaper in one hand and a half-eaten sandwich in the

other. He finishes the sandwich on the way to the doors,

looks out and recognizes the man outside, unlocks the door

and pulls it open.

Neff walks in past him without answering.

A-6 INT. LOBBY

Neff is walking towards elevator. Night watchman looks after

him, relocks door, follows to elevator. Neff enters elevator.

A-7 ELEVATOR

Neff stands leaning against wall. He is pale and haggard

with pain, but deadpans as night watchman joins him.

Night watchman pulls lever, doors close and elevator rises.

Night watchman looks around at him, turns away again and the

elevator stops.

The door opens. Across a small dark reception room a pair of

frosted glass doors are lettered: PACIFIC ALL-RISK INSURANCE

COMPANY - FOUNDED 1906 - MAIN OFFICE. There is a little light

beyond the glass doors.

Neff straightens up and walks heavily out of the elevator,

across reception room to doors. He pushes them open. The

night watchman stares after him morosely, works lever,

elevator doors start to close.

A-8 TWELFTH FLOOR INSURANCE OFFICE

(Note for set-designer: Our Insurance Company occupies the

entire eleventh and twelfth floors of the building. On the

twelfth floor are the executive offices and claims and sales

departments. These all open off a balcony which runs all the

way around. From the balcony you see the eleventh floor below:

one enormous room filled with desks, typewriters, filing

cabinets, business machines, etc.)

Neff comes through the double entrance doors from the

reception room. The twelfth floor is dark. Some light shines

up from the eleventh floor. Neff takes a few steps then holds

on to the balcony railing and looks down.

A-9 THE ELEVENTH FLOOR FROM ABOVE - NEFF'S POINT OF VIEW

Two colored women are cleaning the offices. One is dry-mopping

the floor, the other is moving chairs back into position,

etc. A colored man is emptying waste baskets into a big square

box. He shuffles a little dance step as he moves, and hums a

little tune.

A-10 NEFF

Moves away from the railing with a faint smile on his face,

and walks past two or three offices (CAMERA WITH HIM) towards

a glass door with number twenty-seven on it and three names:

HENRY B. ANDERSON, WALTER NEFF, LOUIS L. SCHWARTZ. Neff opens

the door.

A-11 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - DARK

Three desks, filing cabinets, one typewriter on stand, one

dictaphone on fixed stand against wall with rack of records

underneath, telephones on all three desks. Water cooler with

inverted bottle and paper cup holder beside it. Two windows

facing toward front of building. Venetian blinds. No curtains.

Waste basket full, ash trays not emptied. The office has not

been cleaned.

Neff enters, switches on desk lamp. He looks across at dicta

phone, goes heavily to it and lifts off the fabric cover. He

leans down hard on the dictaphone stand as if feeling faint.

He turns away from dictaphone, takes a few uncertain steps

and falls heavily into a swivel chair. His head goes far

back, his eyes close, cold sweat shows on his face. For a

moment he stays like this, exhausted, then his eyes open

slowly and look down at his left shoulder. His good hand

flips the overcoat back, he unbuttons his jacket, loosens

his tie and shirt. This was quite an effort. He rests for a

second, breathing hard. With the help of his good hand he

edges his left elbow up on the arm-rest of the chair, supports

it there and then pulls his jacket wide. A heavy patch of

dark blood shows on his shirt. He pushes his chair along the

floor towards the water cooler, using his feet and his right

hand against the desk, takes out a handkerchief, presses

with his hand against the spring faucet of the cooler, soaks

the handkerchief in water and tucks it, dripping wet, against

the wound inside his shirt. Next, he gets a handful of water

and splashes it on his face. The water runs down his chin

and drips. He breathes heavily, with closed eyes. He fingers

a pack of cigarettes in his shirt pocket, pulls it out, looks

at it. There is blood on it. He wheels himself back to the

desk and dumps the loose cigarettes out of the packet. Some

are blood-stained, a few are clean. He takes one, puts it

between his lips, gropes around for a match, lights cigarette.

He takes a deep drag and lets smoke out through his nose.

He pulls himself toward dictaphone again, still in the swivel

chair, reaches it, lifts the horn off the bracket and the

dictaphone makes a low buzzing sound. He presses the button

switch on the horn. The sound stops, the record revolves on

the cylinder. He begins to speak:

He interrupts the dictation, lays down the horn on the desk.

He takes his lighted cigarette from the ash tray, puffs it

two or three times, and kills it. He picks up the horn again.

As he goes on speaking, SLOW DISSOLVE TO:

A-12 DIETRICHSON HOME - LOS FELIZ DISTRICT

Palm trees line the street, middle-class houses, mostly in

Spanish style. Some kids throwing a baseball back and forth

across a couple of front lawns. An ice cream wagon dawdles

along the block. Neff's coupe meets and passes the ice cream

wagon and stops before one of the Spanish houses. Neff gets

out. He carries a briefcase, his hat is a little on the back

of his head. His movements are easy and full of ginger. He

inspects the house, checks the number, goes up on the front

porch and rings the bell.

A-13 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - ENTRANCE DOOR

Neff rings the bell again and waits. The door opens. A maid,

about forty-five, rather slatternly, opens the door.

He pushes past her into the house.

A-14 HALLWAY - DIETRICHSON HOME

Spanish craperoo in style, as is the house throughout. A

wrought-iron staircase curves down from the second floor. A

fringed Mexican shawl hangs down over the landing. A large

tapestry hangs on the wall. Downstairs, the dining room to

one side, living room on the other side visible through a

wide archway. All of this, architecture, furniture,

decorations, etc., is genuine early Leo Carrillo period.

Neff has edged his way in past maid who still holds the door

open.

At this point a voice comes from the top of the stairs.

Neff looks up.

A-15 UPPER LANDING OF STAIRCASE - (FROM BELOW)

Phyllis Dietrichson stands looking down. She is in her early

thirties. She holds a large bath-towel around her very

appetizing torso, down to about two inches above her knees.

She wears no stockings, no nothing. On her feet a pair of

high-heeled bedroom slippers with pom-poms. On her left ankle

a gold anklet.

A-16 SHOOTING DOWN FROM UPPER LANDING

Neff looks up, takes his hat off.

A-17 PHYLLIS

A-18 NEFF

A-19 PHYLLIS

A-20 NEFF

A-21 PHYLLIS

She glances over her towel costume.

A-22 NEFF

A-23 PHYLLIS

She turns away as gracefully as one can with a towel for a

wrapper.]

A-24 ENTRANCE HALL

Neff watches Phyllis out of sight. He speaks to the maid

while still looking up.

He goes through the archway. Maid goes off the other way.

A-25 LIVING ROOM

Neff comes into the room and throws his briefcase on the

plush davenport and tosses his hat on top of it. He looks

around the room, then moves over to a baby grand piano with

a sleazy Spanish shawl dangling down one side and two cabinet

photographs standing in a staggered position on top. Neff

glances them over: Mr. Dietrichson, age about fifty-one, a

big, blocky man with glasses and a Rotarian look about him;

Lola Dietrichson, age nineteen, wearing a filmy party dress

and a yearning look in her pretty eyes. Neff walks away from

the piano and takes a few steps back and forth across the

rug. His eyes fall on a wrinkled corner. He carefully

straightens it out with his foot. His back is to the archway

as he hears high heels clicking on the staircase. He turns

and looks through the arch.

A-26 STAIRCASE (FROM NEFF'S POINT OF VIEW)

Phyllis Dietrichson is coming downstairs. First we see her

feet, with pom-pom slippers and the gold anklet on her left

ankle. CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY as she descends, until we

see all of her. She is wearing a pale blue summer dress.

CAMERA PULLS BACK WITH HER INTO THE LIVING ROOM.

He crosses to the davenport to get the policies from his

briefcase. She turns away from the mirror and sits in a big

chair with her legs drawn up sideways, the anklet now clearly

visible.

Phyllis smiles faintly and covers the anklet with her dress.

Phyllis rises and walks up and down, paying less and less

attention.

He consults the policies he is holding.

Phyllis stops in her walk.

She sits down again, in the same position as before.

His eyes fall on the anklet again.

Neff takes his hat and briefcase.

They both move toward the archway.

A-27 HALLWAY - PHYLLIS AND NEFF GOING TOWARDS THE ENTRANCE

DOOR

He walks out.

A-28 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - (DAY)

Shooting past Neff's parked car towards the entrance door,

which is just closing. Neff comes towards the car, swinging

his briefcase. He opens the car door and looks back with a

confident smile.

A-29 ENTRANCE DOOR, DIETRICHSON HOME

In the upper panel the peep window opens and Phyllis looks

out after Neff.

A-30 NEFF

He sits in his car, presses the starter button, looking back

towards the little window in the entrance door.

A-31 ENTRANCE DOOR

The peep window is quickly closed from inside.

A-32 STREET

Neff makes a U-turn and drives back down the block.

A-33 LONG SHOT - INSURANCE OFFICE - TWELFTH FLOOR - (DAY) -

CAMERA HIGH

Activity on the eleventh floor below. Typewriters working,

adding machines, filing clerks, secretaries, and so forth.

Neff, wearing his hat and carrying his briefcase, enters

from the vestibule. He walks towards his office. He passes a

few salesmen, etc. There is an exchange of greetings. Just

as he reaches his office a secretary comes out. She stops.

He hands her his hat and briefcase and continues right on,

CAMERA WITH HIM, to a door lettered:

Keyes' voice is heard inside, plenty loud. Neff grins as he

opens the door and goes in.

A-34 KEYES: OFFICE - (DAY)

A minor executive office, not too tidy: large desk across

one corner, good carpet, several chairs, filing cabinet

against one wall, a dictaphone on the corner of the desk.

Keyes is sitting behind the desk with his coat off but his

hat on. A cigar is clamped in his mouth, ashes falling like

snow down his vest, a gold chair and elk's tooth across it.

On the other side of the desk sits Sam Gorlopis. He is a

big, dumb bruiser, six feet three inches tall -- a dirty

work shirt and corduroy pants, rough, untidy hair, broad

face, small piggish eyes. He holds a sweat-soaked hat on his

knee with a hairy hand. He is chewing gum rapidly. As Neff

opens the door, Keyes is giving it to Gorlopis.

He sees Neff standing inside the door.

He looks cautiously sideways at Keyes.

He pounds the pit of his stomach.

Gorlopis cringes under the impact.

He puts a blank form in front of him and points.

Gorlopis hesitates, then signs laboriously.

He stands up and goes slowly to the door and turns there.

He goes out, closing the door after him. Keyes takes his

cigar stub from his mouth and turns it slowly in the flame

of a lighted match. He turns to Neff.

He walks out, still grinning.

A-35 EXT. OFFICES - TWELFTH FLOOR

Neff comes out of Keys' office and walks back along the

balcony. Activity of secretaries going in and out of doors,

etc. Neff enters his own office.

A-36 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE

Anderson, a salesman, sits at one of the desks, filling out

a report. Neff enters, goes to his own desk. He looks down

at some mail. On top there is a typewritten note. He reads

it, sits down and leafs through his desk calendar.

A-37 INSERT - CLOSEUP - CALENDAR PAGE

Showing date: THURSDAY 23 May and five or six appointments

penciled in tightly on the page.

A-38 DIETRICHSON HOME - ENTRANCE HALL - (DAY)

THE CAMERA PANS with Phyllis Dietrichson's feet and ankles

as she comes down the stairs, her high heels clicking on the

tiles. The anklet glistens on her leg as she moves. THE CAMERA

PANS ON. Phyllis has reached the entrance hall, and as she

walks toward the front door her whole body becomes visible.

She wears a gay print dress with a wide sash over her hips.

She opens the door. Outside is Neff, wearing a sport coat,

flannel slacks. He takes his hat off.

He stands there with a little smile.

He comes in.

She leads him toward living room.

A-39 DIETRICHSON LIVING ROOM

Phyllis and Neff come through archway. She heads toward a

low tea table which stands in front of the davenport, with

tall glasses, ice cubes, lemon, a pot of tea, etc.

She pours herself a glass of tea.

She fixes him a glass of tea while he is looking around. He

slowly sits down.

She hands him the tea.

Phyllis shrugs.

He picks up his hat.

He goes out. She looks after him.

A-40 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - (DAY)

Neff bangs the front door shut, walks quickly to his car and

drives away.

A-41 DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT - (DAY)

Shooting past Neff sitting behind the wheel of his car The

car hop hangs a tray on the door and serves him a bottle of

beer.

A-42 INT. BOWLING ALLEY

Neff bowling. He rolls the ball with an effort at

concentration, but his mind is not really on the game.

A-43 EXT. APARTMENT HOUSE - (DUSK)

It is late afternoon. The apartment house is called the LOS

OLIVOS APARTMENTS. It is a six-story building in the Normandie-

Wilshire district, with a basement garage. THE CAMERA PANS

UP the front of the building to the top floor windows, as a

little rain starts to fall.

A-44 INT. NEFF'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - (DUSK)

It is a double apartment of conventional design, with kitchen,

dinette, and bathroom, squarecut overstuffed borax furniture.

Gas logs are lit in the imitation fireplace. Neff stands by

the window with his coat off and his tie loose. Raindrops

strike against the glass. He turns away impatiently, paces

up and down past a caddy bag with golf clubs in it, pulls

one out at random, makes a couple of short swings, throws

the club on the couch, paces again.

The doorbell rings.

Neff goes to the door and opens it.

Neff just looks at her.

She has nothing in her hands but her bag.

He looks down at her hands.

She comes in. He closes the door.

Neff switches on the standing lamp.

She starts to take off her coat.

He takes her coat and lays it across the back of a chair.

Phyllis has moved over to the window. She stares out through

the wet window-pane.

By this time, he has hold of her wrist. He draws her to him

slowly and kisses her. Her arms tighten around him. After a

moment he pulls his head back, still holding her close.

She tries to jerk away but he holds her and kisses her again.

He lets her go and moves toward the dinette.

A-45 THE DINETTE AND KITCHEN

It contains a small table and some chairs. A low glass-and-

china cabinet is built between the dinette and kitchen,

leaving a space like a doorway. The kitchen is the usual

apartment house kitchen, with stove, ice-box, sink, etc. It

is quite small.

Neff goes to the ice-box and Phyllis drifts in after him.

He points at the china closet. He has taken a tray of ice

cubes from the refrigerator and is holding it under the hot-

water faucet.

Phyllis has the glasses now. She hands them to him. He dumps

some ice cubes into the glasses.

He reaches for the whiskey bottle on top of the china closet.

Neff hands her a glass.

They move back toward the living room.

A-46 LIVING ROOM

Phyllis and Neff go toward the davenport. She is sipping her

drink and looking around.

They sit on the davenport, fairly close together.

She takes a long drink.

She begins to cry. He puts his arms around her and kisses

her.

He holds her tight. Their heads touch, side by side, THE

CAMERA SLOWLY STARTS TO RECEDE as we

A-47 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Neff sits in the swivel chair, talking into the dictaphone.

He has hooked the wastebasket under his feet to sit more

comfortably. As he talks, a little cough shakes him now and

then.

A-48 INT. NEFF'S APARTMENT LIVING ROOM

CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY towards the davenport again. Neff sits

in one corner with his feet on the low table. He is smoking

his cigarette and staring at the ceiling. Phyllis has been

sitting fairly close to him. She gets up slowly and crosses

to her rain coat, lying over a chair.

Neff does not answer. He keeps on staring at the ceiling.

She starts to put the rain coat on.

Neff still does not answer.

He looks at her slowly, almost absently.

He gets up and grips her arm.

There is fierce determination in his voice. His fingers dig

into her arm.

He kisses her.

He leads her towards the door.

They have now reached the door. Neff opens it. Phyllis stands

in the doorway, her lips white.

She goes quietly. He watches her down the corridor. Slowly

he closes the door and goes back into the room. He moves

across the window and opens it wide. He stands there, looking

down into the dark street. From below comes the sound of a

car starting and driving off. The rain drifts in against his

face. He just stands there motionless. His mind is going a

hundred miles a minute.

FADE IN:

B-1 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Neff sits slumped in his chair before the dictaphone. On the

desk next to him stands a used record. The cylinder on the

dictaphone is not turning. He is smoking a cigarette. He

kills it then lifts the needle and slides off the record

which is on the machine and stands it on end on the desk

beside the other used record. He reaches down painfully to

take another record from the rack beneath the dictaphone,

looks at it against the light to make sure it has not been

used, then slides it into place on the machine and resets

the needle. He lifts the horn and resumes his dictation.

Neff takes a last drag on his cigarette and kills it by

running it under the ledge of the dictaphone stand. He drops

the stub on the floor and resumes.

B-2 A BOARD OF CHINESE CHECKERS CAMERA WITHDRAWS AND

GRADUALLY REVEALS THE DIETRICHSON LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The checker-board is on the davenport between Phyllis and

Lola. Mr. Dietrichson sits in a big easy chair. His coat and

tie are over the back of the chair, and the evening paper is

lying tumbled on the floor beside him. He is smoking a cigar

with the band on it. He has a drink in front of him and

several more inside him. In another chair sits Neff, his

briefcase on the floor, leaning against his chair. He holds

his rate book partly open, with a finger in it for a marker.

He is going full swing.

Phyllis looks up from the checker-board and cuts in on the

dialogue. Lola listens without much interest.

Phyllis throws a quick glance at Neff. As she looks back she

sees that Lola is staring down at her wrist watch.

She gets up.

She starts to go.

She goes out through the archway.

Dietrichson sucks down a big swallow of his drink.

Neff has taken two blank forms from his briefcase. He puts

the briefcase on Mr. Dietrichson's lap and lays the forms on

top. Phyllis is watching closely.

Neff takes out his fountain pen.

Neff has unscrewed his fountain pen. He hands it to Mr.

Dietrichson. Dietrichson puts on his glasses.

Dietrichson signs. Neff's and Phyllis' eyes meet for a split

second.

He withdraws the top copy barely enough to expose the

signature line on the supposed duplicate.

Dietrichson grunts and signs again. Again Neff and Phyllis

exchange a quick glance.

Casually Neff lifts the briefcase and signed applications

off Dietrichson's lap.

Dietrichson stands up. He is about Neff's height but a little

heavier.

Dietrichson has poured some more whisky into his glass. He

tries the siphon but it is empty. He gathers up his coat and

tie and picks up his glass.

Neff is zipping up his briefcase.

Dietrichson trundles off towards the archway.

Phyllis leads the way and Neff goes after her, his briefcase

under his arm.

B-3 HALLWAY DIETRICHSON RESIDENCE - (NIGHT)

Phyllis enters through the living room archway with Neff

behind her. She leads him towards the door. On the way he

picks up his hat. In the BACKGROUND Dietrichson begins to

ascend the stairs, carrying his coat and glass. Phyllis and

Neff move close to the door. They speak in very low voices.

Phyllis opens the door a crack. Both look at the stairs,

where Dietrichson is going up. Phyllis takes her hand off

the doorknob and holds on to Neff's arm.

Phyllis slowly drops her hand from his arm. Both look up as

Dietrichson goes across the balcony and out of sight.

For a second they stand listening and looking up as if they

had heard a sound.

They look at each other. The look is like a long kiss. Neff

goes out. Slowly Phyllis closes the door and leans her head

against it as she looks up the empty stairway.

B-4 EXT. DIETRICHSON RESIDENCE - (NIGHT)

Neff, briefcase under his arm, comes down the steps to the

street, where his Dodge coupe is parked at the curb. He opens

the door and stops, looking in.

Sitting there in the dark corner of the car, away from the

steering wheel, is Lola. She wears a coat but no hat.

Lola gives him a sly smile. Neff is a little annoyed.

Neff doesn't like the idea very much.

Neff gets into the car.

B-5 INT. COUPE - (NIGHT) - (TRANSPARENCY)

Neff puts the briefcase on the ledge behind the driver's

seat. He closes the door and starts the car. They drift down

the hill.

Neff looks at her curiously. Lola meets his glance.

This is an embarrassing moment for Lola.

Lola puts a stick of gum in her mouth.

Neff brings the car to a stop by the curb.

Neff looks out.

B-6 CORNER VERMONT AND FRANKLIN - (NIGHT)

Zachetti stands waiting, hands in trouser pockets. He is

about twenty-five, Italian looking, open shirt, not well

dressed.

B-7 INT. COUPE - (NIGHT) - LOLA AND NEFF

She leans over and honks on the horn.

B-8 ZACHETTI

He turns around and looks towards the car.

Zachetti walks towards the car.

B-9 THE COUPE

Neff and Lola. She has opened the door. Zachetti comes up.

Lola steps out of the car.

Lola catches up with Zachetti and they walk away together.

B-10 INT. COUPE

Neff looks after them. Slowly he puts the car in gear and

drives on. His face is tight. Behind his head, light catches

the metal of the zipper on the briefcase. Over the shot comes

the COMMENTARY:

B-11 EXT. SUPER MARKET - (DAY)

There is a fair amount of activity but the place is not

crowded. Neff comes along the sidewalk into the shot. He

passes in front of the fruit and vegetable display and goes

between the stalls into the market.

B-12 INT. MARKET

Neff stops by the cashier's desk and buys a pack of

cigarettes. As he is opening the pack he looks back casually

beyond the turnstile into the rear part of the market.

B-13 ROWS OF HIGH SHELVES IN MARKET

The shelves are loaded with canned goods and other

merchandise. Customers move around selecting articles and

putting them in their baskets. Phyllis is seen among them,

standing by the soap section. Her basket is partly filled.

She wears a simple house dress, no hat, and has a large

envelope pocketbook under her arm.

B-14 INT. MARKET

Neff has spotted Phyllis. Without haste he passes through

the turnstile towards the back.

B-15 THE SHELVES

Phyllis is putting a can of cleaning powder into her basket.

Neff enters the shot and moves along the shelves towards

her, very slowly, pretending to inspect the goods. A customer

passes and goes on out of scene. Phyllis and Neff are now

very close. During the ensuing low-spoken dialogue, they

continue to face the shelves, not looking at each other

She hesitates, then opens it. Neff looks around quickly,

slips the policy out of his pocket and drops it into her

bag. She snaps the bag shut.

He breaks off as a short, squatty woman, pushing a child in

a walker, comes into sight and approaches. She stops beside

Neff, who is pretending to read a label on a can. Phyllis

puts a few cakes of soap into her basket.

She nods. Neff reaches a can down from the high shelf and

hands it to her.

She moves away with her coffee and her child. Out of the

corner of his eye Neff watches her go. He moves closer to

Phyllis again.

Neff looks at his watch.

He goes off. She stares after him.

B-16 NEFF'S OFFICE - (DAY)

He is wearing a light grey suit and has his hat on. He is

standing behind his desk opening some mail, taking a few

papers out of his briefcase, checking something in his rate

book, making a quick telephone call. But nothing of this is

heard.

Keyes enters with some papers in his hand.

The telephone rings on Neff's desk. Automatically Keyes grabs

the phone and answers.

He puts the phone down on the desk and continues to Neff:

Neff picks the phone up and answers.

B-17 INT. PHONE BOOTH - MARKET

Phyllis is on the phone.

B-18 NEFF'S OFFICE

Neff on the phone. His eye catches Keyes', who is walking up

and down.

B-19 PHYLLIS - ON PHONE

B-20 NEFF - ON PHONE

His eyes are on Keyes. He speaks into the phone as calmly as

possible.

B-21 PHYLLIS - ON PHONE

B-22 NEFF'S OFFICE

Neff on phone.

He covers the receiver with his hand and turns to Keyes, who

is now standing at the window.

He makes a gesture as if expecting Keyes to leave. Keyes

stays right where he is.

Neff looks at Keyes' back with a strained expression, then

lifts the phone again.

B-23 PHYLLIS, ON PHONE

B-24 NEFF, ON PHONE

He is still watching Keyes cautiously.

B-24A CLOSEUP - PHYLLIS - ON PHONE

B-24B CLOSEUP NEFF, ON PHONE

B-25 PHYLLIS, ON PHONE

B-26 NEFF, ON PHONE

B-27 PHYLLIS, ON PHONE

B-28 NEFF'S OFFICE

Neff on the phone.

He hangs up. His mouth is grim, but he forces a smile as

Keyes turns.

Neff gets up from his desk.

Keyes drives right ahead.

He punches his stomach with his fist.

Keyes nods slowly, a little sad and a little ashamed.

He picks up some papers impatiently.

He goes out. Neff is alone. He watches the door close, then

turns and goes slowly to the water cooler. He fills a paper

cup and stands holding it. His thoughts are somewhere else.

After a moment he absently throws the cupful of water into

the receptacle under the cooler. He goes back to the desk.

He takes his rate book out of his brief case and puts it on

the desk. He buttons the top button of his shirt, and pulls

his tie right. He leaves the office, with his briefcase under

his arm.

B-29 EXT. NEFF'S APT. HOUSE DAY

Neff's coupe comes down the street and swings into the garage

and goes down the ramp into the basement.

B-30 INT. GARAGE

There are about eight cars parked. A colored attendant in

coveralls and rubber boots is washing a car with a hose and

sponge. Neff's car comes into the shot and stops near the

attendant. Neff gets out with his briefcase under his arm.

Neff is crossing to the elevator. He speaks back over his

shoulder:

Neff enters the elevator.

B-31 NEFF'S APT. - (DAY)

Neff enters. He walks straight to the phone, dials, and starts

speaking into the mouthpiece, but only the COMMENTARY is

heard.

B-32 INT. NEFF'S LIVING ROOM

Neff comes into the living room from the bedroom, putting on

the jacket of his blue suit. THE PHONE RINGS. He picks up

the receiver and starts talking, unheard, as before. He makes

notes on a pad.

B-33 NEFF

He is folding a hand towel and stuffing it into his jacket

pocket. He then takes a large roll of adhesive tape and puts

that into his pants pocket.

B-34 & B-35 INSERTS OF OPEN TELEPHONE BELL BOX (ON BASEBOARD)

& DOORBELL (ABOVE ENTRANCE DOOR)

Neff's hand places a small card against the bell clapper in

each of these.

B-36 FIRE STAIRS, APT. HOUSE (NIGHT)

CAMERA PANS with Neff going down the stairs in his blue suit,

with a hat pulled down over his eyes.

B-37 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - (NIGHT) - LONG SHOT - NO

TRAFFIC

Some windows are lit. Neff comes into the shot and approaches

cautiously. He looks around and then slides open the garage

door.

B-38 INT. GARAGE

Neff closes the garage door. Very faint light comes in at a

side window. He opens the rear door of the sedan, gets in

and closes the door after him. The dark interior of the car

has swallowed him up.

B-39 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOUSE

The front door has opened and Dietrichson is half-way down

the steps. He is walking with crutches, wearing the dark

blue suit and a hat. The cast is on his left leg. There is

no shoe on his left foot. Only the white plaster shows.

Phyllis comes after him, carrying his suitcase and his

overcoat. She wears a camel's-hair coat and no hat. She

catches up with him.

Dietrichson just grunts. She passes him to the garage, CAMERA

WITH HER, and slides the door open.

B-40 INT. GARAGE

THE CAMERA IS VERY LOW INSIDE THE SEDAN, shooting slightly

upwards from Neff's hiding place. The garage door has just

been opened. Phyllis comes to the car, opens the rear door.

She looks down, almost INTO THE CAMERA. A tight, cool smile

flashes across her face. Then, very calmly, she puts the

suitcase and overcoat in back on the seat (out of shot). She

closes the door again.

B-41 EXT. GARAGE

Dietrichson stands watching Phyllis as she gets into the car

and drives out to pick him up. She stops beside him and opens

the right-hand door. Dietrichson climbs in with difficulty.

She helps him, watching him closely.

She takes one of the crutches from him.

For a moment, as he leans his hand on the back of the seat,

there is danger that he may see Neff. He doesn't. He slides

awkwardly into the seat and pulls the second crutch in after

him. He closes the door. The car moves off.

B-42 INT. CAR

Phyllis driving and Dietrichson beside her, face TOWARDS THE

CAMERA. Dietrichson has a partly smoked cigar between his

teeth. They are in the middle of a conversation.

B-43 CLOSEUP ON NEFF'S FACE LOW DOWN IN THE CORNER BEHIND

DIETRICHSON

His face is partly covered by the edge of a traveling rug

which he has pulled up over him. He looks up at Dietrichson

and Phyllis in the front seat.

B-44 HEADS & SHOULDERS OF DIETRICHSON & PHYLLIS - AS SEEN BY

NEFF

B-45 PHYLLIS & DIETRICHSON - FACING CAMERA

B-46 CLOSEUP - PHYLLIS' FACE ONLY

There is a look of tension in her eyes now. She glances around

quickly. The car has reached the dark street Neff and she

picked out.

Phyllis does not answer. She doesn't even breathe. Her hand

goes down on the horn button. She honks three times.

This is as far as his voice will ever get. It breaks off and

dies down in a muffled groan. There are struggling noises

and a dull sound of something breaking. Phyllis drives on

and never turns her head. She stares straight in front of

her. Her teeth are clenched.

B-47 PARKING SPACE ADJOINING GLENDALE STATION - NIGHT

The station is visible about sixty yards away. There is no

parking attendant. Ten or twelve cars are parked diagonally,

not crowded. The train is not in yet, but there is activity

around the station. Passengers and their friends, redcaps

and baggage men, news vendors, etc.

The Dietrichson sedan drives into the shot past CAMERA and

parks in the foreground at the outer end of the line, several

spaces from the next car, facing away from the CAMERA. Both

front doors are open. Phyllis gets out and from the other

side crutches emerge, and a man (seen entirely from behind,

and apparently Dietrichson) climbs out awkwardly. While he

is steadying himself on the ground with the crutches, Phyllis

has taken out Dietrichson's suitcase and overcoat. She walks

around the car and rolls up the right front window. She closes

and locks the car door. She tries the right rear door and

takes a last look into the dim interior of the car. Then she

and the man walk slowly away from the car to the end of the

station platform and along it toward the station building,

Phyllis walks several steps ahead of the man.

B-48 PHYLLIS & THE MAN - WALKING

CAMERA FOLLOWING THEM, a little to one side, so that Phyllis

is clearly seen but the man's face is not.

B-49 PHYLLIS & THE MAN, WALKING DOWN PLATFORM, CAMERA NOW

PRECEDING THEM

Only at this point is it quite clear that THE MAN IS NEFF.

Phyllis nods. They go on. Over them is heard the noise of

the train coming into the station and its lights are seen.

B-50 GLENDALE STATION PLATFORM

The train is just coming to a stop. The passengers move

forward to the tracks. Phyllis, carrying the suitcase and

overcoat, and Neff, still a little behind her, come TOWARDS

THE CAMERA. A redcap sees them and runs up. He takes the

suitcase out of Phyllis' hand.

Phyllis takes an envelope containing Dietrichson's ticket

from the pocket of the overcoat. She reads from the envelope.

Phyllis hands the overcoat to the redcap, who leads her and

Neff towards car number nine. Neff still hangs back and keeps

his head down, the way a man using crutches might naturally

do.

B-51 EXT. CAR #9: B-52: B-53

The pullman conductor and porter stand at the steps. The

conductor is checking the tickets of passengers getting on.

The redcap leads Phyllis and Neff into the SHOT. The conductor

and porter see Neff on his crutches and move to help him.

The redcap goes up the steps into the car. Neff laboriously

swings himself up onto the box and from there up on the steps,

keeping his head down. Meantime, Phyllis is holding the

attention of the conductor and porter by showing them the

ticket.

Phyllis nods and takes the ticket back. Neff has reached the

top of the steps. She goes up after him and gives him the

ticket. They are now close together.

She kisses him. There are shouts of "ALL ABOARD". The redcap

comes from inside the car.

Phyllis takes a quarter from her bag and gives it to the

redcap.

Redcap descends. Phyllis kisses Neff again quickly.

She runs down the steps. The porter picks up the box. He and

the conductor get on board the train. Phyllis stands there

waving goodbye as the train starts moving, and the porter

begins to close the car door. Phyllis turns and walks out of

the shot in the direction of the parked car.

B-54 INT. PLATFORM CAR NUMBER NINE - MOVING TRAIN - (NIGHT) -

DIM LIGHT

Neff and the Porter. The conductor is going on into the car.

Neff is half turned away from the porter.

He holds the vestibule door open. Neff hobbles through.

B-55 INT. PULLMAN CAR - DIM

Most of the berths are made up. As Neff hobbles along, another

porter and some passengers make way for the crippled man

solicitously.

B-56 PLATFORM BETWEEN TWO CARS - VERY DIM

The train conductor meets Neff and opens the door for him.

Neff hobbles on through.

B-57 INT. PARLOR CAR - MOVING TRAIN

Four or five passengers are reading or writing. As Neff comes

through on his crutches they pull in their feet to make room

for him. One old lady, seeing that he is headed for the

observation platform, opens the door for him. He thanks her

with a nod and hobbles through.

B-58 OBSERVATION PLATFORM

Dark except for a little light coming from inside the parlor

car. The train is going at about fifteen miles an hour between

Glendale and Burbank. Neff has come out and hobbled to the

railing. He stands looking back along the rails. SUDDENLY A

MAN'S VOICE speaks from behind him.

Neff looks around. He sees a man sitting in the corner smoking

a hand-rolled cigarette. He is about fifty-five years old,

with white hair, and a broad-brimmed Stetson hat. He looks

like a small town lawyer or maybe a mining man. Neff does

not like the man's presence there very much. He turns to him

just enough to answer.

Neff stands silent. His mind is feverishly thinking of how

to get rid of Jackson.

He starts patting his pockets as if looking for something.

Jackson takes out a small bag of tobacco and a packet of

cigarette papers.

He rises and exits into the parlor car. Neff turns slowly

and watches Jackson go back through the car. Then he moves

to one side of the platform and looks ahead along the track

to orientate himself. He gives one last glance back into the

parlor car to make sure no one is watching him. He slips the

crutches from under his arms and stands on both feet. He

drops the crutches off the train onto the tracks, then quickly

swings his body over the rail.

B-59 EXT. MOVING OBSERVATION CAR - CAMERA FOLLOWING

Neff is hanging onto the railing. He looks down, then lets

go and drops to the right-of-way. THE CAMERA STOPS. The train

recedes slowly into the night. Neff has fallen on the tracks.

He picks himself up, rubs one knee and looks back along the

line of the tracks and off to one side.

B-60 DARK LANDSCAPE - RAILROAD TRACKS

Close beyond the edge of the right-of-way, the silhouette of

a dump shows up. Beside it looms the dark bulk of the

Dietrichson sedan. The headlights blink twice and go out.

B-61 NEFF

He starts running towards the car. He runs a little awkwardly

because of the improvised cast on his left foot.

B-62 CAR IN THE DARK

The front door opens and Phyllis steps out. She closes the

door and looks in the direction of the tracks. The uneven

steps of Neff running towards her are heard. She opens the

back door of the car and leans in. She pulls the rug off the

corpse (which is not visible) and stands looking into the

car, unable to take her eyes off what she sees, while at the

same time her hands mechanically begin to fold the rug. The

running steps grow louder and Neff comes into the SHOT

breathing hard. He reaches her.

Neff points back towards the tracks. He reaches into the car

and begins to drag out the body by the armpits. Phyllis coolly

reaches past him and takes the hat off the dead man's head.

She turns to go.

Phyllis moves out of the shot carrying the hat and rug.

B-63 NEFF

He gets a stronger hold on the dead Dietrichson and drags

him free of the car and towards the tracks. The corpse is

not seen.

B-64 PHYLLIS

She has reached the point where one of the crutches lies.

She picks it up and goes for the other crutch a short distance

away. She carries both crutches, the hat and the rug towards

Neff.

B-65 NEFF

He has reached the railroad tracks. The corpse is lying beside

the tracks, face down. Phyllis comes up to Neff. He takes

the crutches and the hat from her. He throws the crutches

beside the corpse. He takes the hat from Phyllis and tosses

it carelessly along the track.

He takes the rug from her and they move back towards the

car, Phyllis first, then Neff walking almost backwards,

sweeping the ground over which the body was dragged with the

rug as they go.

B-66 THE CAR

They reach it together.

She gets in. Neff sweeps the ground after him as he goes

around the car to get in beside her. He throws the rug into

the back of the car.

B-67 INT. CAR

Phyllis is behind the wheel. Neff beside her is just closing

the door. He props his wrapped foot against the dashboard

and begins to tear off the adhesive tape while at the same

time Phyllis presses the starter button. The starter grinds,

but the motor doesn't catch. She tries again. It still doesn't

catch. Neff looks at her. She tries a third time. The starter

barely turns over. The battery is very low.

Phyllis leans back. They stare at each other desperately.

After a moment Neff bends forward slowly and turns the

ignition key to the OFF position. He holds his left thumb

poised over the starter button. There is a breathless moment.

Then he presses the starter button with swift decision. The

starter grinds with nerve-wracking sluggishness. Neff twists

the ignition key to ON and instantly pulls the hand-throttle

wide open. With a last feeble kick of the starter, the motor

catches and races. He eases the throttle down and slides

back into his place. They look at each other again. The

tenseness of the moment still shows in their faces.

Phyllis releases the hand brake and puts the car in reverse.

Neff is again busy unwrapping the tape from his leg. The car

moves.

B-68 DARK LANDSCAPE - WITH DUMP

The car, with the headlights out, backs up, swings around

and moves off along the dirt road the way it came.

B-69 INT. SEDAN - DRIVING ALONG HIGHWAY IN TRAFFIC

Phyllis and Neff facing towards CAMERA. Neff is bent over,

peeling the towel and plaster off his foot, which is out of

shot. Phyllis is calm, almost relaxed. Neff straightens up.

They are talking to each other. Their lips are seen moving

but what they say is not heard. They stop talking. Phyllis

stares straight ahead. Neff is pulling adhesive tape off the

wrapped towel that was on his foot. He folds the adhesive

into a tight ball, rolls the towel up, puts both into his

pockets.

B-70 DARK STREET NEAR NEFF'S APT. HOUSE

The sedan drives into the shot and stops without pulling

over to the curb.

The car door opens. Neff starts to get out.

Neff turns back to her.

Phyllis bends towards him and puts her arms around him.

Phyllis kisses him. In the kiss he is passive.

B-71 FIRE STAIRS - (NIGHT)

Neff going up.

B-72 B-73 INSERTS

Telephone bell box and the door bell. The cards are still in

position. Neff's hand takes them out.

B-74 LIVING ROOM - NEFF'S APT. NIGHT - ELECTRIC LIGHTS ON

Neff comes from the bedroom, wearing the light grey suit he

wore before the murder, only with out a tie. He buttons his

jacket, looks around the room, and opens the corridor door.

B-75 BASEMENT GARAGE - (NIGHT)

Fifteen or twenty cars are parked now. Charlie, the attendant

has washed Neff's car and is now polishing the glass and

metal work. Neff comes from the elevator. Charlie sees him.

He straightens up.

He walks up the ramp towards the garage entrance.

B-76 STREET OUTSIDE APT. HOUSE - (NIGHT) - SHOOTING TOWARDS

GARAGE ENTRANCE

Neff comes out at the top of the ramp and starts to walk

down the street, not too fast. CAMERA PRECEDES HIM. He walks

about ten or fifteen yards. At first his steps sound hard

and distinct on the sidewalk and echo in the deserted street.

But slowly, as he goes on, they fade into utter silence. He

walks a few feet without sound, then becomes aware of the

silence. He stops rigidly and looks back. CAMERA STOPS WITH

HIM. He stands like that for a moment, then turns toward the

CAMERA again. There is a look of horror on his face now. He

walks on, CAMERA AHEAD OF HIM again. Still his steps make no

sound.

FADE IN:

C-1 NEFF'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Neff sits before the dictaphone. There are four cylinders on

end on the desk next to him. He gets up from the swivel chair

with great effort and stands a moment unsteadily. The wound

in his shoulder is paining him. He is very weak as he slowly

crosses to the water cooler. He takes the blood stained

handkerchief from inside his shirt and soaks it with fresh

water.

The office door opens behind him. He turns, hiding the

handkerchief behind his back. In the doorway stands the

colored man who has been cleaning up downstairs. He is

carrying his big trash box by a rope handle.

He closes the door slowly, staring at Neff with an uneasy

expression. Neff puts the soaked handkerchief back on his

wounded shoulder, then walks heavily over to his swivel chair

and lowers himself into it. He takes the dictaphone horn and

speaks into it again.

C-2 INSURANCE OFFICE - TWELFTH FLOOR - DAY

Neff comes through the reception room doors with his hat on

and his briefcase under his arm. He walks towards his office,

but half way there he runs into Keyes. Keyes is wearing his

vest and hat, no coat. He is carrying a file of papers and

smoking a cigar.

He turns and walks beside Keyes, CAMERA AHEAD of them

He stops by a majolica jar full of sand and takes a pencil

from his vest. He stands over the jar extinguishing his cigar

carefully so as not to damage it.

Keyes puts the half-smoked cigar into his vest pocket with

the pencil. They move on.

They stop at a door lettered in embossed chromium letters:

EDWARD S. NORTON, JR. PRESIDENT. Keyes opens the door. They

go in.

C-3 INT. RECEPTION ROOM - MR. NORTON'S OFFICE

A secretary sitting behind a desk. As Keyes and Neff enter,

the door to Norton's private office is opened. From inside,

Mr. Norton is letting out three legal looking gentlemen.

Norton is about forty-five, very well groomed, rather pompous

in manner.

He sees Keyes and Neff.

Neff has put down his hat and briefcase. He and Keyes pass

the legal looking men and follow Norton into his office.

C-4 INT. NORTON'S OFFICE

Naturally it is the best office in the building; modern but

not modernistic, spacious, very well furnished; flowers,

smoking stands, easy chairs, etc. Norton has gone behind his

desk. Keyes has come in, and Neff after him closes the door

quietly. Norton looks disapprovingly at Keyes' shirt sleeves.

Keyes takes his hat off but holds it in his hands.

Norton smiles frostily.

Keyes and Neff sit down, Norton remains standing.

He walks up and down behind his desk thinking hard.

There is a charged pause.

He looks from Keyes to Neff and back to Keyes.

The dictograph on his desk buzzes. He reaches over and

depresses a key and puts the earpiece to his ear.

He replaces the earpiece. He turns back to Keyes and Neff.

Keyes and Neff start to get up.

The secretary has opened the door.

Neff stands staring at the door. He relaxes with an obvious

effort of will. Phyllis comes in. She wears a gray tailored

suit, small black hat with a veil, black gloves, and carries

a black bag. The secretary closes the door behind her. Mr.

Norton goes to meet her.

He turns a little towards Keyes.

Norton has placed a chair. Phyllis sits. Norton goes behind

his desk.

Phyllis nods silently.

Keyes sits quietly in his chair with his legs crossed. He

has hung his hat on his foot and thrust his thumbs in the

armholes of his vest. He looks a little bored. Neff, behind

him, stands leaning against the false mantel, completely

dead-pan.

She looks towards Neff.

Phyllis looks at him coolly.

Keyes looks vaguely interested.

Neff is staring straight at Phyllis.

Phyllis doesn't bat an eyelash.

He indicates a thermos on a stand near Neff. Neff pours a

glass of water and carries it over to Phyllis. She has lifted

her veil a little. She takes the glass from his hand.

Their eyes meet for a fraction of a second.

Norton flips his fingers impatiently at Keyes who doesn't

even bother to look up.

She makes as if to rise indignantly.

Phyllis rises coldly.

She turns and walks out. The door closes after her. There is

a pregnant pause. Keyes straightens up in his chair.

Norton pours himself a glass of water and stands holding it.

Keyes stands up.

Keyes' throat is dry after the long speech. He grabs the

glass of water out of Norton's hand and drains it in one big

gulp.

Norton is watching him almost stupefied. Neff stands with

the shadow of a smile on his face. Keyes puts the glass down

noisily on Norton's desk.

Norton doesn't move or speak. Keyes puts his hat on and

crosses towards the door, Neff after him. With the doorknob

in his hand Keyes turns back to Norton with a glance down at

his own shirt sleeves.

They go out.

C-5 NEFF - AT DICTAPHONE - (NIGHT)

There is a tired grin on his face as he talks into the horn.

C-6 NEFF'S APARTMENT - EVENING - ALMOST DARK IN THE ROOM

The corridor door opens letting light in. Neff enters with

his hat on and his briefcase under his arm. He switches the

lights on, closes the door, puts the lights on, closes the

door, puts the key in his pocket. At this moment the telephone

rings. He picks up the phone.

C-7 INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH IN A DRUG STORE

Phyllis is on the phone. She is not dressed as in Norton's

office.

C-8 NEFF ON TELEPHONE IN HIS APARTMENT

C-9 PHYLLIS ON PHONE

C-10 NEFF'S APARTMENT - (NIGHT) - NEFF ON PHONE

He hangs up, takes off his hat and drops hat and briefcase

on the davenport. He looks around the room and crosses to

lower the venetian blinds and draw the curtains. He gathers

up the morning paper which is lying untidily on the floor

and puts it in the waste-paper basket.

The door bell rings.

Neff stops in sudden alarm. It can't be Phyllis. The time is

too short. For a second he stands there motionless, then

crosses to the door and opens it.

In the open door stands Keyes.

Keyes walks past him into the room. His hands are clasped

behind his back. There is a strange, absent-minded look in

his eyes. Neff closes the door without taking his eyes off

Keyes.

Keyes stops in the middle of the room and turns.

He prods his stomach with his thumb.

He has stopped in front of Neff. They look at each other for

a tense moment. Neff hardly breathes.

Keyes shakes his head suddenly.

Keyes prods his stomach again.

Keyes resumes his pacing.

There is another longer pause, agonizing for Neff. Finally

Keyes continues:

Keyes doesn't answer. He goes on pacing up and down. Finally

Neff can't stand the silence any longer.

He crosses to the corridor door.

He puts his hand on the knob to open the door.

C-11 CORRIDOR - APARTMENT HOUSE - NIGHT - LIGHTS ON

The hallway is empty except for Phyllis who has been standing

close to the door of Neff's apartment, listening. The door

has just started to open. Phyllis moves away quickly and

flattens herself against the wall behind the opening door.

Keyes is coming out.

Neff, behind him, looks anxiously down the hallway for

Phyllis. Suddenly his eye catches a glimpse of her through

the crack of the partly opened door. He pushes the door wide

so as to hide her from Keyes.

He has reached the elevator. He pushes the call button and

turns.

The elevator has come up and stopped.

He pulls back the elevator door and turns to Neff with one

last glance of annoyance.

Keyes gets into the elevator. The door closes. The elevator

goes down.

Neff stands numb, looking at the spot where Keyes was last

visible. Without moving his eyes he pulls the door around

towards him with his left hand. Phyllis slowly comes out.

Neff motions quickly to her to go into the apartment. She

crosses in front of him and enters. He steps in backwards

after her.

C-12 INT. NEFF'S APARTMENT

Phyllis has come a few steps into the room. Neff, backing in

after her, closes the door from inside and turns slowly.

They look at each other for a long moment in complete silence.

She moves toward him but he does not respond.

He pulls her close and kisses her.

FADE IN:

D-1 INSURANCE OFFICE - TWELFTH FLOOR - ANTEROOM - (DAY)

Two telephone operators and a receptionist are at work.

Several visitors are waiting in chairs. Lola Dietrichson is

one of them. She's wearing a simple black suit and hat,

indicating mourning. Her fingers nervously pick at a

handkerchief and her eyes are watching the elevator doors

anxiously.

(Now and then the telephone operators in the background are

heard saying, "PACIFIC ALL-RISK. GOOD AFTERNOON.")

The elevator comes up and the doors open. Several people

come out, among them Neff, carrying his briefcase. Lola sees

him and stands up, and as he is about to pass through the

anteroom without recognizing her she stops him.

Neff looks at her a little startled.

His voice hangs in the air.

He pushes the swing door open and holds it for her. As she

passes in front of him his eyes narrow in uneasy speculation.

D-2 TWELFTH FLOOR - BALCONY

Neff comes up level with Lola and leads her towards his

office, CAMERA WITH THEM.

He opens the door of his office and holds it for her. She

enters.

D-3 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - (DAY)

Lou Schwartz, one of the other salesmen, is working at his

desk. Lola enters, Neff after her.

He gets up and goes out. Lola has walked over to the window

and is looking out so Schwartz won't stare at her. Neff places

a chair beside his desk.

At the sound of the closing door she turns and speaks with a

catch in her voice.

He sits down. His face is grim and watchful.

Neff stares at her tensely. He knows only too well who the

nurse was.

She turns again to the window so he won't see that she is

crying. Neff gets up and goes to her.

She turns from the window with a pathetic little nod.

D-4 LA GOLONDRINA (NIGHT)

In the foreground, Neff and Lola are having dinner. In the

background the usual activity of Olvera Street -- sidewalk

peddlers, guitar players, etc.

D-5 INT. NEFF'S COUPE (DAY)

Neff and Lola driving along the beach near Santa Monica.

Neff is wearing a light summer suit, very much in contrast

to Lola's mourning. Apparently she is telling him a story

and now and then she laughs, but there is no sound.

CAMERA MOVES PAST HER TO A: CLOSE SHOT OF NEFF behind the

steering wheel. He is only half listening to Lola. His mind

is full of other thoughts.

D-6 INSURANCE OFFICE - 12TH FLOOR - DAY

Neff, with his hat on and no briefcase, is walking toward

Keyes' office. As he comes up close to the door, he stops

with a startled expression on his face. On a chair beside

the door sits a familiar figure. He is Jackson, the man from

the observation platform of the train. He is wearing his

Stetson hat and smoking a cigar. He is studying something in

the file folder. Neff recognizes him immediately but Jackson

does not look up. Neff controls his expression and goes on

to open the door to Keyes' office.

D-7 INT. KEYES' OFFICE

Neff is just closing the door from the inside. Keyes, his

coat off, is lying on his office couch, chewing on a cigar,

as usual.

Keyes bounces off the couch like a rubber ball.

Keyes levels a finger at him.

Keyes goes to the door and opens it.

Jackson enters with the file folder.

He indicates the cigar he himself is smoking.

Jackson indicates the file folder he is holding.

Keyes turns to Neff.

Keyes remembers he forgot to introduce Jackson.

Keyes picks up the telephone on his desk and speaks into it.

Meanwhile, Jackson crosses over to Neff and, during the

ensuing dialogue between him and Neff, we hear Keyes' low

voice on the phone in background. We do not hear what he

says.

Keyes rejoins them at this point.

Keyes has opened the door for Jackson.

Jackson doesn't get it.

He goes out.

He puts a cigar in his mouth and starts tapping his pockets

for matches.

Neff strikes a match for him. Keyes takes the match out of

his hand and lights his cigar.

D-8 TELEPHONE BOOTH IN JERRY'S MARKET - DAY

Neff is in the booth dialing a number, and as she waits he

looks around to make sure he is not watched.

Neff hangs up.

D-9 EXT. JERRY'S MARKET - DAY

The LaSalle stops in front of the market. Phyllis steps out

and goes into the market, looking around.

D-10 SHELVES IN THE REAR OF MARKET

Neff is moving slowly along the shelves, outwardly calm but

with his nerves on edge. From beyond him Phyllis approaches.

She stops beside him, facing the same way, with a couple of

feet separating them.

Phyllis moves close to him.

Phyllis looks at him sharply, sideways.

A customer comes along the aisle toward them. They move apart.

The customer passes. Phyllis draws close again.

Phyllis takes his arm, forgetting where she is. He pulls

away.

One of the market help, pushing a small hand-truck loaded

with packaged goods, comes along the aisle. He stops and

begins to restock a shelf very close to Neff and Phyllis.

They go off slowly in opposite directions. CAMERA PANS with

Neff as he walks toward another shelf, one that stands away

from the wall. Phyllis appears on the opposite side of the

shelf and stops, facing toward him. They now continue their

low-voiced dialogue through the piled-up merchandise.

Phyllis takes off her dark glasses for the first time and

looks at him with cold, hard eyes.

Phyllis puts the glasses on again and goes.

Over Neff's face, as he looks after her, comes the COMMENTARY.

D-11 INT. NEFF'S OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Neff is dictating into the dictaphone.

D-12 HOLLYWOOD HILLS (NIGHT) (TRANSPARENCY)

Neff and Lola are climbing over a low hill in the foreground.

The sky is starlit and music from the Bowl comes over the

scene from below (Cesar Franck D Minor Symphony). As he helps

her climb up, CAMERA PANS with them and shows the expanse of

the Bowl below, a packed audience, and the orchestra on the

lighted shell.

They sit down on the grass. Neff sits near her, not too close.

It is very dark and they are silhouetted against the shell

lights. Neff puts a cigarette in his mouth and strikes a

match. The flame lights up Lola's face. Neff glances at her.

She is crying. He lights his cigarette and blows out the

match. A pause follows.

Lola doesn't answer.

She begins to cry again.

Over Neff's face, as he listens to the music, comes the

commentary.

D-13 LOBBY OF PACIFIC BLDG. (DAY)

About 5:00 P.M. or a little later. A stream of office

employees is coming out of an elevator; a second elevator

reaches the lobby and some more office employees come out,

among them Neff, wearing his hat and carrying his briefcase.

CAMERA PRECEDES HIM as he walks toward the entrance doors.

He is stopped by Keyes' voice, off to one side.

Neff stops and looks towards the cigar counter, as he moves

towards him. Keyes is standing there buying cigars. He is

stuffing them into his pockets.

He bites off the end of the cigar and puts the cigar into

his mouth. He starts tapping his pockets for a match, as

usual. Neff strikes a match for him.

Keyes goes toward the street and OUT OF SCENE. Neff moves

back into the lobby, CAMERA FOLLOWING HIM. As he reaches the

elevator, he looks back over his shoulder, to make sure Keyes

is gone, then steps into the empty elevator.

D-14 ENTRANCE - OFFICE. 12TH FLOOR RECEPTION ROOM (DAY)

Neff comes out of the elevator. The receptionist is just

tidying up her desk. She has her hat on and is preparing to

leave. Neff passes on through the swinging doors to the

twelfth floor balcony.

D-15 12TH FLOOR BALCONY

Neff enters from the reception room. A couple of belated

employees are leaving for the day. Neff goes toward Keyes'

office, looks around to make sure he is unobserved, enters.

D-16 KEYES' OFFICE (DAY)

Neff has just come in. He goes over to Keyes' desk and

searches the papers on it. He tries the desk drawers and

finds them locked. His eye falls on the dictaphone on the

stand beside the desk. A record is on it, the needle is about

two-thirds of the way towards the end. He lifts the needle

and sets it back to the beginning of the record, sets the

switch to playback position. He lifts the arm off the bracket

and starts the machine. Keyes' voice is heard coming from

the horn:

Neff stops the machine. He sits down slowly, still holding

the horn. He is deeply moved. After a moment, he presses the

switch again.

Neff sits, staring blankly at the wall. The cylinder goes on

revolving, but no more voice comes -- only the whir of the

needle on the empty record. At last he remembers to replace

the horn. He hangs it back on its hook. The machine stops.

Neff gets up from the chair, walks slowly to the door and

goes out.

D-17 12TH FLOOR, BALCONY

Neff has just come out of Keyes' office. He walks slowly

back towards the reception room entrance, then stands there

looking out through the glass doors. All the employees have

now left. Neff is entirely alone. He moves as if to go out,

then stops rigidly as his face lights up with excitement of

a sudden idea. He turns quickly and walks on to his own office

and enters.

D-18 NEFF'S OFFICE (DAY)

Neff walks across to his desk, lifts the telephone and dials

a number. (During the ensuing telephone conversation, only

what he says is heard. The pauses indicate speeches at the

other end of the line).

Neff hangs up and stands beside the desk with a grim

expression on his face, takes a handkerchief out and wipes

perspiration from his forehead and the palms of his hands.

The gesture has a symbolic quality, as if he were trying to

wipe away the murder. Over his face comes the commentary.

D-19 HALL STAIRWAY OF DIETRICHSON HOME (NIGHT)

The lights are turned on. Phyllis is coming down the stairs.

She wears white lounging pajamas, and she is carrying

something small and heavy concealed in a scarf in her right

hand. She reaches the front door, opens it slightly, fixes

the catch so that the door can be opened from outside. She

switches off the porch light and the hall light. She moves

towards the living room, where there is still light on.

D-20 LIVING ROOM

On the long table behind the davenport, one of the lamps is

lit. The only other light in the room is a standing lamp

beside the desk. A window toward the back is open, and through

it comes the SOUNDS OF MUSIC, probably a neighboring radio.

Phyllis enters and crosses to the table. She puts out the

lamp, then moves over to the desk and puts out the lamp there.

The room is filled with bright moonlight coming in at the

windows.

Phyllis crosses to the chair by the fireplace (the one she

sat in the first time Neff came to the house). She lifts the

loose cushion and puts what was in the scarf behind it. As

she withdraws the scarf, there is a brief glint of something

metallic before she covers the hidden object with the cushion

again.

She turns to the low table in front of the davenport and

takes a cigarette from the box. She takes a match and is

about to strike it when, just then, she hears a car coming

up the hill. She listens, motionless. The car stops. A car

door is slammed.

Calmly, Phyllis strikes the match and lights her cigarette.

She drops the match casually into a tray, goes back to the

chair, sits down and waits, quietly smoking. There are

footsteps outside the house.

Over the chair in which Phyllis is sitting, the hallway is

visible through the arch. The front door opens. Neff comes

in, he is silhouetted against the moonlight as he stands

there. He closes the door again.

Neff comes through the arch and walks slowly towards her.

Neff sits down on the arm of the davenport, close to her.

Neff gets up from the davenport. He listens to the music for

a moment.

Phyllis just stares at him. He goes quietly over to the window

and shuts it and draws the curtain. Phyllis speaks to his

back:

Neff turns, something changes in his face. There is the report

of a gun. He stands motionless for a moment, then very slowly

starts towards her. CAMERA IS SHOOTING OVER HIS SHOULDER at

Phyllis as she stands with the gun in her hand. Neff stops

after he has taken a few steps.

Neff takes a few more steps towards her and stops again.

Phyllis is silent. She doesn't shoot. Her expression is

tortured. Neff goes on until he is close to her. Quietly he

takes the gun out of her unresisting hand.

Phyllis puts her arms around him in complete surrender.

Neff draws her close to him. She reaches up to his face and

kisses him on the lips. As she comes out of the kiss there

is realization in her eyes that this is the final moment.

Out of the shot the gun explodes once, twice. Phyllis quivers

in his arms. Her eyes fill with tears. Her head falls limp

against his shoulder. Slowly he lifts her and carries her to

the davenport. He lays her down on it carefully, almost

tenderly. The moonlight coming in at the French doors shines

on the anklet. He looks at it for the last time and slowly

turns away. As he does so, he puts his hand inside his coat

and it comes out with blood on it. Only then is it apparent

that Phyllis' shot actually did hit him. He looks at the

blood on his fingers with a dazed expression and quickly

goes out of the room, the way he came.

D-21 EXT. DIETRICHSON HOME - (NIGHT)

Neff comes out of the house. He closes the front door with

his right hand. His left arm hangs limp. He takes a few steps

down the walk, then suddenly hears somebody approaching. He

moves behind the palm tree near the walk.

A man comes up the steps towards the front door -- Zachetti.

Just as he reaches the door, Neff calls to him.

Zachetti turns and approaches him slowly.

He takes some loose change out of his pocket and holds out a

coin.

Neff starts to drop the nickel into Zachetti's handkerchief

pocket. Zachetti knocks his hand away.

Zachetti just stares at him. Neff moves again to put the

nickel into Zachetti's pocket. This time Zachetti allows him

to do it.

He motions toward the street below.

Zachetti goes slowly past him. Neff grabs him and pushes him

almost violently down the walk. Zachetti goes out of shot.

The sound of his steps dies away as Neff looks after him.

Then, far off in the distance, the SIREN OF A POLICE CAR is

heard.

Neff moves off through the shrubbery toward the side of the

house where he parked his car.

D-22 NEFF'S OFFICE - (NIGHT)

The desk lamp is still lighted. Outside the windows, the

dawn is slowly breaking.

Neff is still clutching the horn of the dictaphone. There

are eight or nine used cylinders on the desk beside him. A

widening stain of blood shows on the left shoulder of his

gray jacket. He is very weak by now, and his voice holds a

note of utter exhaustion.

Suddenly he stops his dictation with an instinctive feeling

that he is not alone in the room.

As he turns in his chair the CAMERA PULLS BACK slowly. The

office door is wide open. Keyes is standing a few steps inside

it. Behind him, on the balcony outside, stands the night

watchman and the colored janitor, peering curiously into the

room over Keyes' shoulder.

Slowly, and without taking his eyes off Neff's face, Keyes

reaches back and pushes the door shut.

Neff hangs up the dictaphone horn. He looks at Keyes with a

faint, tired grin and speaks very slowly.

Keyes moves towards him a few steps and stands without

answering.

Keyes, staring at him, still does not answer.

Neff makes a motion indicating the used cylinders standing

on the desk.

They stare at each other for a long moment, then, with intense

effort Neff gets up on his feet and stands there swaying a

little. His face is covered with sweat. His shoulder is

bleeding. He is on the verge of collapse.

Neff starts to move towards the door, staggering a little,

holding himself upright with great effort.

Neff has reached the door. He twists the knob and drags the

door open. He turns in it to look back at Keyes' implacable

face.

Neff goes out, leaving the door wide open. THE CAMERA FOLLOWS

his staggering walk along the BALCONY TOWARDS THE ELEVATOR

LOBBY. The sound of his breathing is so harsh and loud that

for a moment it dominates the scene. Finally he reaches the

swing doors leading into the lobby and starts to push them

open. At this moment he collapses. He clutches the edge of

the door and as it swings around with him he falls to the

floor. He tries to struggle up but cannot rise.

In background comes the sound of a telephone being dialed.

There is the sound of the phone being replaced in its cradle.

Then there are footsteps growing louder along the balcony

and Keyes walks slowly into the shot. He kneels down beside

Neff.

Neff manages a faint smile.

The eyes of the two men meet in a moment of silence.

Neff fumbles for the handkerchief in Keyes' pocket, pulls it

out and clumsily wipes his face with it. The handkerchief

drops from his hand. He gets a loose cigarette out of his

pocket and puts it between his lips. Then with great

difficulty he gets out a match, tries to strike it, but is

too weak. Keyes takes the match out of his hand, strikes it

for him and lights his cigarette.

The following pages are for an alternate ending that director

Billy Wilder actually shot but later decided against.

The eyes of the two men meet in a moment of silence.

Neff fumbles for the handkerchief in Keyes' pocket, pulls it

out and clumsily wipes his face with it. Then, clutching the

handkerchief against his shoulder, he speaks to Keyes for

the last time.

FADE IN:

E-1 WITNESS ROOM IN DEATH CHAMBER - SAN QUENTIN (DAY)

Showing the witness room and approximately one-half of the

gas chamber. BOOM SHOT towards guard standing BACK TO CAMERA

at entrance door. Except for this guard the room is empty.

Guard opens the door. Two other guards enter, followed by a

group of witnesses and newspaper men, each of whom removes

his hat as he enters the room. They form a group around the

outside of the gas chamber, some looking in through the glass

windows, some standing in the background on low platforms

against the wall.

THE CAMERA SLOWLY BEGINS TO MOVE IN AND DOWN, AND CENTERS ON

Keyes, as he enters the room and stands behind the door. His

face is seen through the bars of the door, which is then

closed, and CAMERA MOVES TO A CLOSEUP. His eyes follow the

action of the closing door, then slowly look towards the gas

chamber.

E-2 THE GAS CHAMBER, EMPTY

On its windows show reflections of the spectators, including

the face of Keyes.

The door to the gas chamber opens in the background, and

beyond that another door opens. Neff comes in between two

guards. He is wearing a white open-necked shirt, blue denim

pants, and walks barefooted on a cocoanut matting. He moves

into the gas chamber, looks through the windows in the

direction of Keyes and nods quickly, recognizing him. The

guards turn him around and seat him in one of the two metal

chairs, with his back to the witnesses. They strap his arms,

legs and body to the chair. The guards go out.

E-3 THE DOOR TO THE GAS CHAMBER

It is open. The three guards come out of the gas chamber

into the ante-chamber, where stand the warden, executioner,

two doctors, the minister and the acid man, and possibly

several guards.

The executioner and one guard close the door. The guard spins

the big wheel which tightens it. The wheel at first turns

very quickly, then, as it tightens, the guard uses

considerable force to seal the chamber tight. The guard steps

out of the shot. The gas chamber is now sealed.

E-4 THE WITNESSES AND KEYES

They are intently watching Neff in the gas chamber.

E-5 THE ANTE-CHAMBER

The warden looks slowly around the room, sees that everyone

is in his proper place and that the stethoscope, which one

doctor holds, is connected with the outlet in the wall of

the gas chamber. Also that the man in charge of the acid is

ready. The warden makes a motion to the acid man. The acid

man releases the mixed acid into a pipe connecting with a

countersunk receptacle under Neff's chair. (This action is

only suggested). The warden looks at the clock, then turns

to the executioner and nods.

E-6 THE EXECUTIONER - MED. SHOT - CAMERA SHOOTING DOWN FROM

HIGH ANGLE TOWARDS EXECUTIONER

He pushes a metal lever. (This immerses the pellets of cyanide

in the acid under the chair.)

E-7 INT. GAS CHAMBER - MED. SHOT

CAMERA IS SHOOTING ABOVE Neff's head (just out of shot),

towards spectators standing outside the gas chamber, Keyes

in the center. Gas floats up into scene between CAMERA and

spectators. Keyes, unable to watch, looks away.

E-8 THE FIRST DOCTOR - CLOSE SHOT

as he listens on stethoscope connected with the gas chamber.

He glances at the clock above his head.

E-9 THE SECOND DOCTOR - CLOSE SHOT

He stands to right of the gas chamber door, taking notes on

a pad. He glances towards First Doctor (out of scene) and

looks through venetian blinds into the gas chamber. The acid

man stands near him.

E-10 THE FIRST DOCTOR

CAMERA SHOOTING FROM HIGH ANGLE TOWARDS HIM as he listens on

stethoscope. The doctor glances at the clock again. He takes

his stethoscope from his ears. He nods to the warden, This

indicates that the man is dead. CAMERA PANS with warden as

he turns to open the door connecting the ante-chamber with

the witness room.

E-11 THE WITNESS ROOM - LONG SHOT FROM HIGH ON BOOM DOWN ON

WITNESSES GROUPED AROUND GAS CHAMBER

The door connecting with the ante-chamber opens. A guard

comes through.

The guard withdraws and closes the door by which he entered.

The witnesses slowly start to file out. A guard has opened

the outer door. The witnesses put their hats on as they pass

through. A few go close to the windows of the gas chamber to

look in at the dead man before they leave.

All the witnesses have now left, except Keyes, who stands,

shocked and tragic, beyond the door. The guard goes to him

and touches his arm, indicating to him that he must leave.

Keyes glances for the last time towards the gas chamber and

slowly moves to go out.

E-12 CORRIDOR OUTSIDE THE DEATH CHAMBER

CAMERA SHOOTING IN THROUGH THE OPEN DOOR AT KEYES, who is

just turning to leave. Keyes comes slowly out into the dark,

narrow corridor. His hat is on his head now, his overcoat is

pulled around him loosely. He walks like an old man. He takes

eight or ten steps, then mechanically reaches a cigar out of

his vest pocket and puts it in his mouth. His hands, in the

now familiar gesture, begin to pat his pockets for matches.

Suddenly he stops, with a look of horror on his face. He

stands rigid, pressing a hand against his heart. He takes

the cigar out of his mouth and goes slowly on towards the

door, CAMERA PANNING with him. When he has almost reached

the door, the guard stationed there throws it wide, and a

blaze of sunlight comes in from the prison yard outside.

Keyes slowly walks out into the sunshine. stiffly, his head

bent, a forlorn and lonely man.

