FADE IN

on the words CZECH AIRLINE.  We are panning across the words

on the side of the plane.

INT. AIRPLANE

ANGLE DOWN

on a tray table.  Crumpled Czech bills and coins are on it.

Hands are counting the money.  The airline hostess announces

the arrival at JFK - in CZECH.  A hand reaches into a breast

pocket - pulling out two passports.  One is opened.  Belongs

to EMIL SLOVAK.  The next passport belongs to OLEG RAZGUL.

The hand passes the Oleg Razgul passport to the man next to

him.  We notice several empty airline bottles of vodka and a

small disposable camera on Oleg's tray table.  The passport

is set down.  Oleg picks it up.  We hear Emil's voice in

CZECH.  The scene is subtitled in ENGLISH.

INT. PASSPORT CONTROL - KENNEDY AIRPORT - DAY

CAMERA DOLLIES down a long line of passengers.  They are

split into two lines - one for Americans, the other for

visitors.  CAMERA finally arrives at EMIL SLOVAK.  An

unshaven Czech in his mid-30's.  Tall, scraggly beard.

Piercing blue eyes.  He's dressed in an outdated suit.  His

eyes are alert, cunning and smart.

OLEG RAZGUL, stands in line behind Emil.  Oleg is big.  Not

tall - but wide.  A wrestler's body.  Emil looks at Oleg.

(The following is in CZECH and subtitled in ENGLISH.)

Oleg holds up his disposable camera - at arms length - to

take a picture of himself.

He hands the passport to the officer who runs it through an

image swipe.  Emil glances furtively back to Oleg.

Oleg was about to take a picture of Emil and the Immigration

Officer.  Oleg puts the camera away.  Smiles sheepishly.

Oleg starts to speak, but Emil cuts him off.

The SUPERVISOR comes over to see what the problem is:

Emil looks at Oleg, pissed.

INT. P.B. HERMAN'S RESTAURANT - DAY

The place is empty except for one table at the end of the

bar.  EDDIE FLEMMING, Manhattan's most famous detective, and

his savvy, black partner, LEON JACKSON are having cocktails.

Eddie is smoothly handsome, tough, smart and tired.  Not only

is he the best homicide detective Manhattan has ever seen,

he's continually mentioned in New York columns and has been

the subject of several magazine articles.  There's even been

a TV movie about one of his biggest cases.  Leon has been

with Eddie a long time and was also featured in the TV movie.

Sitting with Eddie and Leon is ROBERT HAWKINS, host and star

reporter for the tabloid show, "Top Story."  Hawkins is also

the best in the business and has dealt with them all: Joey

Buttafuco and Amy Fisher, Lorena Bobbit and OJ.

Wait staff bustles in the b.g. doing the morning set up.

Hawkins listens as Eddie, cigar in hand, finishes a "war

story" and a vodka tonic at the same time.

PAULIE, the owner, walks up.

Paulie takes the drinks off the table and an empty bottle of

vodka.

Hawkins and Leon share a look.

Paulie delivers the drinks and sets some cigars on the table.

Takes a seat next to Eddie.  Eddie asks Hawkins.

As he hands pictures to Hawkins his cell phone rings.

They all rise from the table.

Leon and Hawkins sit back down as Eddie and Paulie leave.

INT. SECONDARY IMMIGRATION OFFICE - DAY

Now other officers are questioning Emil and Oleg.  They've

been there a while.  The SECONDARY OFFICER is looking Oleg.

Emil looks at Oleg.  Blaming his stupid responses at Passport

Control for their detainment.

ANGLE UP

through a thousand ICE CUBES.  A face plunges towards us...

INT. MENS ROOM

Eddie has his back to us as he dunks his face into a sink

full of ice.  He dries his face, looks into his bloodshot

eyes.  Presents a small black ring box to the mirror.

Leon enters.  Eddie turns.

Eddie leans back and drops some Visine in his eyes.  Turns.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - DAY

Oleg and Emil stare at the bright lights - all the nonstop

action.  Each stands with an old suitcase.

Emil pulls out an envelope with Milos' address on it.  This

is who they came to see.  Emil hails a CAB.  Oleg is staring

inside a camera store - at himself on a monitor.  A

videocamera's pointed out in the street.

Oleg stares at the videocamera - dying to have one like this.

Emil slides into the cab.

Emil pulls out the post-marked envelope.  Points to the

return address on it and passes it through the slot to the

Cabbie.

Emil looks out the window - no sign of Oleg.  Then, Oleg

hurries out the camera store, gripping something inside his

coat.  He flings both suitcases in the trunk, SLAMS it shut

and jumps in the back seat.  He opens his jacket - pulling

out the VIDEOCAMERA he just stole.

Oleg smiles sheepishly at Emil.

EXT. SPANISH HARLEM - DAY

Eddie's car pulls up.  Eddie, Leon and Hawkins get out.

Eddie passes Hawkins a Polaroid - of a woman on a bed -

covered in blood.

Leon moves to a LOOKOUT - gives him a twenty.

As they reach the doorway - Eddie surprises two crackheads.

Waves them off.  They hurry away.

Eddie flattens against the building - watches Unique descend

the fire escape.

Eddie closes in.

Unique is climbing down the fire escape - before he gets to

the bottom, Leon bursts through a door behind him and kicks

the fire escape, sending Unique flying into the alley.  Where

he lands dropping his gun.

Eddie pulls him off the ground as Leon scoops the gun up.

Leon cuffs Unique who recognizes Eddie.

An unmarked van comes tearing into the scene.  Disgorges a

mini-cam team that starts filming but they missed the bust.

EXT. EAST SIDE - LATE DAY

The cab is in front of an old five-story brownstone.  Oleg

gets the bags out of the trunk as Emil tucks the envelope

into his jacket, then steps up to the old building.  He looks

back at Oleg - who's VIDEOTAPING him.

Oleg looks at Emil.  Even though Oleg is stronger than Emil,

he fears him.  He picks up both bags.  Emil searches the

occupant list over the buzzers to the apartment building.

Emil pushes ten of the buzzers except 5RW.  A BUZZER clicks

and Emil pushes it open.

INT. MILOS' APARTMENT BUILDING - STAIRWELL - DAY

The brownstone has no elevator so Emil and Oleg climb the

stairs... Oleg cradling his camera.  Emil notices a crack

pipe on the floor and picks it up.  Smells the bowl.

Emil pockets the pipe and climbs to the top floor, moving

down the dirty hallway to a corner door.

INT. MILOS' APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - DAY

He KNOCKS...FOOTSTEPS approach.  The door is opened by MILOS -

a 40-year-old Czech, dressed in stained plumbers overalls.

He  is surprised to see Emil and Oleg in his doorway.  Oleg

films him...

Milos shoots a look across the tiny kitchen to TAMINA, his

comely wife.

INT. MILOS' APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Emil pushes his way inside.  Oleg follows.  Milos wears

plumbers overalls but Emil notices sports a Rolex.  Tamina

has on a faded dress but despite their cheaply furnished

apartment she wears an expensive brushed gold necklace,

bracelet and big pearl earrings.  The room is furnished with

kitsch from Disney World and Las Vegas.  The only anomaly is

a HUGE SONY TRINITRON HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER.  (The

following is in Czech and subtitled in English.)

Oleg is looking Tamina over.  Milos - though scared - barks

at Oleg.

Oleg videotapes the scene.

CLOSE ON AN AJAR DOOR

All we see behind it is a WOMAN'S FACE and her wet hair - she

obviously came from the shower and we see the towel wrapped

around her.

Emil, pissed, moves to a wood block and pulls out a KITCHEN

KNIFE.  He grabs Tamina roughly, putting the blade to her

throat.

Milos looks at his wife - who is terrified.

Milos closes the gap between him and Emil - trying to calm

him by talking softly.

Emil pulls the knife away from Tamina - then angrily PLUNGES

it toward Milos' chest!

Oleg videotapes it.  Then lowers the camera - shocked that

Emil killed Milos.

Blood sprays Tamina's face.  She tries to run but Oleg grabs

her, not noticing her brushed gold bracelet falls to the

floor.  He covers her mouth as he points the videocamera at

Emil who STABS Tamina - absolutely enraged!

THE WOMAN BEHIND THE DOOR

flees...Emil hears NOISE in the bedroom - a window opening.

Emil kicks the bedroom door open.  Sees the window leading to

the fire escape.  He dashes to it.  Sees four flights down -

the WOMAN, wearing a summer dress.  Barefoot.  Her hair still

wet.

She looks up.  She is beautiful and terrified.  She runs

down the alley.

Emil hurries toward the bathroom.  She just got out of the

shower.  Her underwear and purse are draped over a chair.

Emil grabs the purse.  Finds a CZECHOSLOVAKIAN PASSPORT.  He

opens the cover, stares at her photo and name.

There's one stamp in the passport - from the U.S. when she

arrived - June 16, 1998.  Underneath is written - 6 MONTH

STAY.  Emil flips through the rest of the passport - all

blank pages.

Emil pockets Daphne's passport and wallet, scoops up her

shoes and jacket - enters the kitchen and dumps them on the

floor.  He tears through the kitchen cabinets, throwing cans

and bottles aside.

Emil finds nail polish remover - looks at the bodies.

Emil draws the kitchen curtains plunging the room into

darkness.

A face comes from the darkness.  It's an athletically

handsome man, jogging out of a tunnel towards us.  He's in a

tie and jacket in Central Park at NIGHT.

He is JORDAN (JORDY) WARSAW.  A sensitive man of rugged

honesty.  He runs down the hill in a hurry.  A MUGGER steps

in his path.

The Mugger pulls a knife - and in a whirl of movement, Jordy

grabs his wrist and disarms him in a deadly, professional

manner - hurling him down to the pavement, twisting his arm

behind his back.  With his other hand, Jordy whips out a

BROWNING 9MM from his shoulder holster and places it behind

the mugger's head.  Jordy displays his shield.

Jordy handcuffs the Mugger and searches the Mugger's coat

pockets - pulling out a handful of driver's licenses and

credit cards.

As Jordy yanks the Mugger to his feet, his BEEPER goes off.

Jordy drags the Mugger to a tree.  Cuffs him so his face is

pressed up against the bark.

Jordy jogs off across the park.

EXT. MILOS' APARTMENT - NIGHT

FIRE TRUCKS from three battalions.  Radios CRACKLE.  There's

a crowd growing.  Jordy pushes his way through.  The top

floor of the brownstone where Milos and Tamina lived has been

reduced to smoking ruins.  The trees are covered in debris

and soot.  Jordy moves to LOUIE - Battalion Chief.

BOBBY KORFIN - an overweight arson investigator with a quick

with and good sense of humor - comes over, pulling on a

turnout coat.

INT. MILOS' APARTMENT - NIGHT

The roof is gone.  The sky is exposed.  It's charred ruins,

smoked beams and watery muck.  Eddie and Leon are standing by

what's left of the mattress, looking at Milos and Tamina's

charred bodies.  Eddie grips a half-smoked Cuban cigar,

listening to Leon.

Jordy enters - with Korfin who's carrying a paint can.

Korfin makes a beeline for Eddie - wanting to meet the

celebrity.

Eddie puts his cigar out.  Carefully slides it into a cigar

holder and pockets it to finish later.

Leon displays the pipe Emil found on the stairs.  Korfin

shines the flashlight on Leon to look at the pipe.

Jordy throws a look at Korfin.  Homicide detectives have no

respect for fire marshals' investigative skills.  Eddie

rummages through the apartment - moving into the kitchen and

living room... Leon watches as Korfin sticks a pencil in a

charred beam, measuring how deep in it goes.

Jordy moves to one of the corpses.  He pulls on a white

rubber glove.  Inserts his finger in the corpses mouth.  The

glove comes out white.

Jordy's looking at Leon, who was just about to blow his nose.

Leon looks at Jordy, then lowers the handkerchief.  Jordy

turns back to the corpses on the bed.  Eddie - in the other

room - has found Tamina's brushed gold bracelet on the floor.

Leon watches Jordy, quietly.  With a pair of tweezers, Jordy

pulls a small unburned piece of cloth from behind one of the

heads.  Korfin supplies the paint can.  Jordy drops the cloth

inside.

That got Eddie's attention and he comes back to the bedroom.

Leon and Eddie move to higher ground - on top of a burnt TV

set.  Eddie hands the brushed bracelet to Leon.  As Camello

hacks at the floor with an ax, Jordy continues to examine the

bodies and Korfin explains:

Jordy kicks around the draining floor, reaches down for

something.

Jordy finds some wires attached to an outlet, pulls them up -

on the other end is a timer.  Korfin takes the timer from

Jordy and moves to Eddie.

EXT. MILOS' APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

As Jordy and Korfin exit the brownstone, a CAMERA CREW is

arriving.  Jumps out.

Korfin and Jordy cross toward Korfin's car.  They open the

trunk.  Take off their muddy boots throwing them in.

Eddie and Leon exit - Eddie carrying a baggie with a timer

inside.  NICOLETTE KARAS, young and attractive, pushes her

microphone at Eddie.  She's smart, aggressive and respected

by her peers.

Nicolette signals for her camera man, MIKE, to zoom in on

Eddie's hand.  She barrels on...

Mike pans up to Eddie's face.  Other reporters arrive,

hurling questions which Eddie easily answers.  Cameras flash

as we PAN BACK TO Korfin and Jordy.  Jordy is about to get in

the car as he notices, back behind some construction - DAPHNE

HANDLOVA.  She's still wearing the crumpled summer dress.

She tentatively steps out to signal Jordy.  He only catches a

glimpse of her.  He starts toward her -- knifes through the

crowd - but Daphne is gone.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - LATER

Korfin's car SCREECHES to a stop.  Jordy leaps out.

Suddenly, Jordy stops...the Mugger handcuffed to the tree is

now NAKED!

Jordy unlocks the handcuffs.

Korfin delivers a blanket.  Jordy covers him.

Jordy gives him a push.  The Mugger wraps the blanket around

himself cursing - hurrying away.

EXT. 8TH AVENUE - NIGHT

Exhausted HOOKERS who have worked all night loiter outside a

sleazy hotel.  CAMERA PANS up to a blinking hotel sign.

INT. KING EDWARD HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

The light is blinking an eerie green and yellow light into

the room.  Emil is at the window pulling the blind down

trying to shut out the blinking light.  He pulls it down

twice and it pops back up both times.  The third time he

angrily pulls it so hard, it comes off the window completely.

He sits down in a chair in frustration - adjusting a pillow

behind his back.  THE ROSEANNE SHOW is on TV.  Roseanne has

been talking to a FATHER.

Emil reaches for his dictionary.

He flips through his dictionary to find the meaning of self

esteem.

The audience boos.  Roseanne mediates...

Oleg - fresh from the shower with wet hair - sits on the bed

in his skivvies - staring into the videocamera's LCD screen -

rewinding Milos' murder.  We see it now for the first time -

as he rewinds it.  Oleg watches - a bottle of cheap vodka

between his legs.  Emil, looks up from his dictionary.  He's

wearing Milos' Rolex.

Tamina's jewelry - her brushed gold necklace and pearl

earrings - are in front of him with Daphne's wallet.  Emil

looks up - Oleg is holding his videocamera.

Emil grabs the videocamera.

Emil tosses the camera back to Oleg who drops his vodka

bottle in order to catch the camera.  Oleg, holding the

camera like it's gold, goes to the dresser and puts it away.

Emil starts to go through Daphne's wallet.

Emil found the last card in the wallet.  It's pink with a

picture of a busty globe.  Printed in the middle is - WORLDLY

ESCORTS - and a number.

Emil picks up his dictionary and begins to flip the pages -

finding the meaning of worldly.  He gets up and dials the

number.  A soft, SEXY VOICE answers.  Soft music in the

background.

Oleg, who's listening, moves to Emil.

EXT. FIRE STATION 91 - NIGHT

Korfin's car pulls up to the station - as a fire engine is

returning.

INT. FIRE STATION 91 - NIGHT

The men are pulling off their equipment - coming down from

the high of fighting a fire.  Korfin and Jordy walk toward

the TV room.  The TV is on in the background.  We can see

Nicolette interviewing Eddie.  He holds up the paint can.

They turn.  DEPUTY CHIEF FIRE MARSHAL DECLAN DUFFY - the head

of the arson squad - comes over.  Duffy's tough, Irish and

very political.

They walk to the back of the station and start up the stairs.

They all head upstairs.

INT. ARSON SQUAD ROOM - DAY

The Chief, Jordy and Korfin enter.  There are posters of

pyros, arsonists and terrorists on the walls.  GARCIA - a

Puerto Rican investigator - looks up from his desk.

A scruffy, unshaven white man sitting across from Garcia,

turns.  He is MAX, a pyromaniac in his 40's with a freshly

scratched cross etched in his forehead.  He craves attention.

Jordy moves to his desk with Korfin.  They sit across from

each other.  Duffy keeps going to his office, not even

bothering to stop.

Jordy pops out of his seat.

Jordy pulls Max by the collar - pushes him down the aisle.

Korfin takes over - throwing him out.  Jordy turns to Garcia

who is laughing.

INT. KING EDWARD HOTEL ROOM - TV SET - NIGHT

As the "Top Story" logo is splashed across the screen,

accompanied by a catchy TV THEME, Robert Hawkins introduces

America's highest rated 'news magazine' show.

VIDEOCAMERA SLOWLY ZOOMS OUT and PANS over to Emil, sitting

on the hotel bed watching the TV.  He looks at us.

Oleg's hand reaches in front of the lens - turning up the

volume.  The scene cuts back to Stephen Geller being

interviewed by Robert Hawkins and his camera crew.  He's

sitting on the front lawn of a mental institution in a paint

stained shirt.  A showing of his artwork is displayed in the

background.  Patients peruse the paintings of weird

dysfunctional faces that avoid eye contact.  One of the

paintings depicts Eddie Flemming and Leon Jackson.

Emil leans forward - listening.  Fascinated.

There's a KNOCK on the door.  Our VIDEOCAMERA POV swings over

to it.  Then WHIPS back to Emil.  Emil looks at us.

Emil turns off the TV.  Our POV backs into the bathroom,

closing the door but leaving it open a crack.  Emil looks

down at his shoe.  The POV PANS down to the kitchen knife

sticking out of Emil's BOOT.  Emil's hands pull his pants

cuff over it.  POV PANS up to Emil as he moves to the door

and opens it.  It's not Daphne and she's not world class.

She enters.  Closes the door behind her.

Oleg ZOOMS in for a CLOSE UP of Honey.  During the rest of

the scene Oleg films her.  Honey begins to undress.

She starts to unfasten Emil's belt.

Emil pulls the knife out of his boot and SHOVES her against

the door, PUSHING the blade against her throat - suddenly

furious like he was before killing Milos and Tamina.

Emil backs off as she reaches for her purse, and comes out

with a can of mace, SPRAYING Emil's face!

Emil stumbles backwards - Oleg holding him in the frame.  He

WHIP PANS back to Honey as she grabs her clothes, unlocking

the door but Emil's HAND SLAMS it shut!  Emil turns blindly,

rubbing his burning eyes - guarding the door.  Honey darts

toward the bathroom - she pushes open the door and runs into

Oleg who is VIDEOTAPING HER.  Horrified, she turns around as

Emil SMASHES her in the face so hard she topples backwards,

tripping into the bathtub, pulling the shower curtain down on

her!  Like a panther out for the kill, Emil POUNCES.  Oleg

films as Emil lifts his hand, gripping...

THE KITCHEN KNIFE

As Emil's hand comes FLYING DOWN - then RISES UP, BLOODIED.

Her screams are muffled by the shower curtain wrapped around

her face.  Oleg films the scene as the knife plunges DOWN

INTO:

DAPHNE, a sketch of her face.

WIDER

Food containers are scattered all over the place.  The female

COMPOSITE ARTIST looks at Jordy.  Stacks of failed sketches

sit beside her.

The composite artist looks at Jordy.

Korfin has his chair turned around from his desk and is

watching the sketch evolve as he speaks on the phone to the

landlord of the 7th Street brownstone.  Garcia is also on the

phone.  The other investigators are gone.  Working late into

the night.  Everybody's exhausted.  It's almost dawn.

Jordy takes the sketch of Daphne which isn't a bad likeness

and heads for the door.  Korfin falls in behind him.  As they

pass Garcia he hands Jordy the address.

INT. MILOS' APARTMENT - DAWN

CAMERA DESCENDS FROM THE SKY picking up Jordy as he enters

what is left of Milos and Tamina's apartment.  The roof has

been burned off. He moves into the next room, trying to see

through the darkness - looking through the muck and char.

Jordy turns, surprised.  Eddie sits on a singed chair.  He

pours from a half-pint bottle of vodka into his 'won ton

soup' container, smoking a cigar.  On the arm of the armchair

is a brown legal folder and stacks of photographs of the

crime scene and the burned bodies.

Eddie knocks his 'won ton soup' back.

Jordy pulls out a sketch of Daphne.  Hands it to Eddie.

Jordy tries to take the sketch back.  Eddie holds on.

Eddie walks up to the burnt mattress - where the bodies were.

Eddie passes a crime scene photo of the bodies to Jordy.

Eddie's cellular rings - he grabs it.

Eddie's moving with Daphne's sketch.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NEWS STAND - DAY

Video POV of the news stand as a hand reaches into frame and

picks up a copy of THE NEW YORK POST.  Eddie's photo is on

the front page - holding the kitchen timer by the wires.

Underneath his picture the caption reads, "DOUBLE HOMICIDE...

FLEMMING'S ON IT."  The videocamera widens out revealing Emil

standing in front of a Times Square news stand, reading the

front page.  The videocamera turns around - until focusing on

Oleg himself.

He turns the camera around - FILMING EMIL.

The VENDOR - picks up People.  Stephen Geller is on the

cover.

Oleg picks up FILM COMMENT, MOVIELINE and PREMIERE magazine.

Emil pays for everything.

Oleg tucks the magazines in his coat, picks up the suitcases

and hails a taxi.  As Emil collects his change he sees an old

BLIND WOMAN waiting at the crosswalk.  The light's blinking

WALK.

Emil gently takes her arm and crosses her to the other side.

Emil watches her walk on.

INT. KING EDWARD HOTEL ROOM - DAY

The hotel room is a hive of activity.  GIL is dusting the

dresser for prints.  Another officer is stripping the bed and

putting the bedding into a big, clear plastic bag.  As Eddie

enters the crime scene, a POLICE PHOTOGRAPHER is standing in

the doorway taking pictures.

Jordy enters.  Leon steps in his way.

Eddie walks over to a young detective.  TOMMY CULLEN, only

26, is excited to meet Eddie.

Eddie follows Tommy into the bathroom.  There's blood

splattered all over the walls and the floor.  Honey's topless

body lies in the tub tangled in the bloody shower curtain.

MURPHY, an Irish medical examiner (M.E.), is examining the

body.

Tommy heads out.  Eddie takes out his cigar holder.  Slides

out what's left of his cigar.  Re-lights it.  Looks down at

Honey's body in the bathtub.  Gil's dusting the tub for

prints.

Gil looks confused.  Eddie points to the toilet.  Seat is up.

Gil crosses to the toilet and starts to dust it.  Eddie

stands in the bathroom - studying the scene.  Holding the

unlit cigar.  Looking around at the blood splattered walls.

Eddie positions Jordy behind the tub next to the wall.

Murphy pulls out a clear plastic ruler and walks over to the

blood-splattered wall.

Eddie exchanges a look with Jordy as Tommy, the young

detective, returns.

Tommy holds up a slip of paper with the outcall service

address on it.

INT. KING EDWARD HOTEL ROOM - STAIRS - DAY

Jordy hurries out - catches up with Eddie.

As Eddie exits the hotel, a MAN approaches.

EXT. KING EDWARD HOTEL - DAY

Jordy catches up.  Eddie finishes signing the autograph using

the man's back.

Eddie pulls out a coin and hands it to Jordy.

Jordy flips the coin and it's heads.

Jordy goes for the passenger side of the car.  Before Jordy

can get in, Eddie starts to pull away.  Jordy stands on the

sidewalk - dejected.  Eddie stops the car again and this time

lets Jordy get in.

INT. UPPER EASTSIDE HALLWAY - DAY

Eddie and Jordy arrive in front of Rose's door.  Eddie knocks

and flips a coin to Jordy.

Jordy takes the quarter.  Not understanding what Eddie means.

He looks at the quarter.

Eddie suckered him with the coin toss.  Jordy reacts.  Eddie

laughs - squirts Binaca in his mouth.  Knocks again.  We hear

ROSE HELLER.

Rose reacts.  Immediately UNLOCKS, UNCHAINS and opens the

door!

Eddie glances self-consciously at Jordy.

INT. ROSE'S APARTMENT - DAY

They enter.

Rose moves back to the phone - finishes up her conversation

in Afrikaner.  We hold on Eddie and Jordy at the door.  Eddie

looks around - taking in the place.  FOUR GIRLS are on

phones.  Two girls take orders for customers.  The other two

work the phone sex lines.  Rose hangs up the phone - turns to

Eddie and Jordy:

Though Rose answers Jordy, she directs her response to Eddie.

A BUTCH GIRL enters.  Rose speaks to her in Afrikaner.

Jordy pulls out the sketch, unfolds it.

EXT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

As Eddie speeds through the street, SIREN BLARING.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

Jordy holds on as Eddie darts in and out of cars with

astonishing dexterity.  This man can drive.  Eddie picks up

his phone - dials.  Jordy is on his cell phone as well.

Eddie looks over as Jordy disconnects.  Eddie picks up a beer

he was holding between his legs - finishes it.

Jordy looks at Eddie - can't deny he's right.

INT. LUDWIG'S SALON - DAY

We're in a moving video POV of Ludwig's, the hair salon -

it's big and spacious.  The lens finds THE RECEPTIONIST.

Oleg approaches Daphne who is mixing hair dye.  LUDWIG, the

owner, is with her.

He leaves, a customer approaches.  She smiles at him - turns

on the water in the sink then sees - Oleg filming her.  She

backs up...suddenly moves to the emergency door!

TO THE BACKYARD

There's a garden out there.  Daphne runs toward the alley.

Oleg follows her - still videotaping.  As she rounds the

corner she bumps into...Emil!  He pulls out his kitchen

knife, shoving her against the wall, pushing the blade with

the broken tip against her throat.

She looks at him, not understanding.  Oleg films the scene.

The tone in Emil's voice - there's an uncharacteristic

softness to it.  He wants to reconcile his behavior to her.

The back door opens.  He shoves the knife in his pocket as

Ludwig peers around the alleyway.  What he sees is Emil

leaning close to Daphne, kissing her.

Ludwig leaves.

Emil reaches into his pocket and pulls out SOMETHING, sticks

it in the palm of her hand, closing her fingers around it.

He taps her hand...he turns and goes out the rear exit.  Oleg

follows.  Jordy arrives.

She says nothing.

She says nothing.  Eddie arrives.  Daphne turns.  Recognizing

Eddie.

Eddie looks at Jordy.  Takes Daphne by the arm.

As they come out, Eddie notices Daphne clutching something in

her hand.  He reaches for her hand.  Opens it.  It's a

brushed gold necklace.

Eddie searches the streets.  Notices Oleg and Emil on the far

corner.  Oleg is videotaping him.  Leon and Tommy pull up.

Korfin behind.  They all pop out.  Eddie grabs Leon -

squeezes his arm - quietly.

They start heading down the curb - trying not to attract the

attention of Oleg and Emil.

A VIDEO CLOSE-UP

of the scene from across the corner.

Emil starts to flee.

EXT. NYC STREETS - CONTINUOUS

What follows next is an incredible foot chase with Eddie,

Jordy, Korfin and Leon running through traffic - chasing

Emil.  Eddie tries to stay in the lead but is running out of

breath.

Jordy runs down one side of Madison - Eddie, the other.

Korfin continues down 62nd and Leon covers the other side.

They search for Emil, grabbing people, turning them around,

missing him.  Emil seems to have disappeared.

Leon, gun raised, approaches the cafe.  As he rounds the

corner, Emil darts out, cracking Leon across the face!  Leon

crashes into a table, dropping his gun.  Emil scoops up the

gun and PISTOL-WHIPS Leon.  BEATING the detective to a pulp.

People are running from the scene.  Emil takes Leon's wallet.

He is distracted by LAUGHTER.  Oleg is VIDEOTAPING the scene.

Oleg swivels with the videocamera.  Korfin is running toward

them - pushing through the crowd.  Emil FIRES!  Korfin is

blown backwards.

Eddie arrives.  Bends down to Leon, whose face is red with

blood.  Jordy runs to Korfin, who's laying in the street,

shot in the side.  Jordy cradles his partner.

Jordy looks up as Eddie steps into the center of the street.

Cars screech out of the way!  Eddie crouches, taking aim at

Emil, who is almost two blocks away.  It's an impossible

shot, out of range.

But Eddie closes an eye, aims and squeezes off one SHOT.  Two

blocks away, Emil topples.  Korfin and Jordy look at Eddie,

astonished he made the shot.  Emil scrambles to his feet.

Runs.  Eddie holsters his weapon.  Pulls out a handkerchief.

Dabs Leon's wounds.

EMS VEHICLE

Eddie and Jordy watch as Korfin on a stretcher, is loaded in

an EMS VEHICLE and in b.g., an EMS DOCTOR attends to Leon's

bloody face.  Eddie and Jordy turn to go back into the

restaurant, now cleared out - as Nicolette Karas arrives with

her cameraman.

Jordy moves off, he doesn't want to get pulled in front of

Nicolette.

Daphne can be seen waiting in the back of the restaurant,

maybe twenty feet away.  Tommy stands next to her.  This is

where Eddie and Jordy are headed.

Mike the cameraman cuts the cameraman - lowers it from his

shoulder.

Eddie walks into the restaurant.  Throws a look back at her,

then enters.

INT. ARMAND RESTAURANT - DAY

Jordy talks to Daphne.

She says nothing.

She still hesitates.

She looks at Eddie.

She clams up.

Jordy leads Daphne to a table - she sits.  Eddie sits across

from her.  Jordy crouches down next to her.

Eddie steps away with Jordy.  Keeping his eyes on Daphne.

She tries to listen.

Eddie tilts his head.  Measures Jordy.

Eddie looks at his watch.  Thinks it over.  Measures Jordy.

He gives Jordy a look and heads for the door.

INT. A SEEDY BATHROOM - DAY

Emil pulls off his sock and shoe, lifts his foot into a

stained sink and washes the blood away, exposing the chunk of

pink flesh taken out of his ankle.  Emil grabs some toilet

paper, plugs the wound, then cuts the towel off the dispenser

with his kitchen knife and wraps his ankle.  He grits teeth

in pain.  The lights go out.  Then Oleg adjusts the

fluorescent light above the sink.

Emil lifts his foot out of the sink.

Emil lifts his shirt, exposing his back.

We don't see what Oleg sees - not yet - but from his

expression, it's horrible.

INT. JORDY'S CAR - DAY

Daphne rides in the backseat.  Jordy's watching her in the

rearview.

She looks away.  Out the window.  Jordy sees emotion filling

her eyes.  She looks back at him - her eyes have teared up.

Jordy looks at her.  Can't quite tell if she's trying to

manipulate him or really just wants to get cleaned up before

all the shit starts.

Jordy looks at her...

EDDIE

Staring right at us.

He holds up the diamond engagement ring.

Eddie is standing in front of a mirror - rehearsing the

proposal.  He notices a small dab of blood on his shirtcuff.

Leon's blood.  Paulie enters carrying a towel and a vodka

tonic.

Paulie sets down the drink and begins their silent ritual.

He hands Eddie the towel.  Eddie wipes off his face and

hands, then hands the towel back to Paulie.  Paulie helps

Eddie on with his coat.  Eddie takes some Visine out of his

coat pocket.  Drops a few in each eye.  HE straightens

himself and looks in the mirror, taking a big gulp of the

drink.  Eddie sets the glass down and starts out.  Paulie

hands him a Binaca.  Eddie gives himself a squirt as he

exits.  Paulie follows.

INT. P.B. HERMAN'S RESTAURANT - DAY

It's lunchtime...it's crowded.  Eddie takes a seat at a

table.  He takes the ring out of his pocket - holds it under

the table.  Nicolette Karas walks up to Eddie from behind.

Gives him a kiss on the cheek.

She orders a drink in Greek from the Greek waiter, then sits

down across the table.  There's a long pause - they just look

at each other.

They look at each other.

They kiss.

Eddie takes her hand.

She looks at him.

Nicolette's phone rings.  Eddie stops - looks at the ringing

phone.

Nicolette's phone keeps ringing.  Eddie stares at it.

Nicolette's phone keeps ringing.

The line disconnects.  She collapses the phone.  Turns to

Eddie.

They kiss.

She walks out.

INT. FIRE STATION 91 - DAY

Jordy unlocks the door.  Enters with Daphne.  The fire

station is empty.

He gestures toward the stairs.

INT. FIRE STATION LOCKER ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jordy and Daphne walk through the locker room.  Her eyes

never leaving Jordy's.

Daphne stops.  Looks at him.  Stands very close.

She looks up into his eyes.  Searching.  Thinking he's

hinting.

She leans in close to him - giving him the opportunity to

kiss her.  Jordy is tempted but...remembers Eddie's warning

and backs up slightly.

Desperate now, willing to do anything, Daphne moves in even

closer.

Jordy is locked in her eyes.  Almost giving in.  Then breaks

away.  Gestures towards the showers.

Daphne looks away form him - crestfallen.  She heads to the

showers.  Jordy follows her into the bathroom.  The walls are

lined with shower stalls.

He leaves her there.  Alone.  She quickly moves to the

window.  Opens it.  Looks down.  It's a two-story drop to the

street.

JORDY

gets a towel from the locker room.  His beeper goes off.  He

checks the number but decides not to return the call.  We

follow him back into the bathroom.  The shower is on but he

notices the window.  It's open.

He rushes over.  He looks out.  No sign of her.  He turns -

looks back at the shower.  It's on but he can't see through

the curtain.  Can't tell if she's there.  He walks over -

quickly - fearing that she's left.  He pulls the curtain

aside.  She's crouched in the corner shower stall.  Holding

herself.  She looks up at him - her eyes filled with tears.

Jordy sits on the bench next to the shower.

He covers her with the towel, pulling her up.

She embraces him.  Trusting him.  He stands there for a

moment.  Then awkwardly holds her.  Comforting her.

CLOSE UP

on a steak.  Male hands cut a piece.  Another male hand sets

down a huge bottle of Extra Strength Excedrin.  The hands

abandon the steak and rip open the bottle.  The CAMERA pulls

back to include the LCD screen of Oleg's videocamera.  He is

taping Emil as he rips open the safety plastic with his

teeth.  Emil is sweating with fever and his eyes are glazed

over in pain.  He 'drinks' pills from the bottle and chews

them up.  Wincing in pain.  Emil washes them down with a

beer.

Emil looks down and the camera follows his gaze to the

"People" magazine article he's reading on Stephen Geller.

Emil laughs.  Shaking his head at the article as the

videocamera tilts back up to his face.

Oleg closes the LCD screen and puts the camera down.  Emil

removes a small address book -- from Leon's wallet - he looks

up Eddie Flemming's name.

Oleg jumps up with the camera to tape the book.

Oleg gets a shot and quickly sits back down.

Emil takes a gulp of beer - drops cash on the table and limps

away.  Oleg follows.

INT. PRECINCT - DAY

It's quiet - Chief Duffy paces in front of the Sergeant's

desk.  Looking at his watch.  Growing more and more

aggravated as every second ticks by.  Jordy enters escorting

Daphne.  Sees Duffy and tires to go past him.  Duffy turns

and sees Jordy and Daphne.

Jordy stops and comes back.  Sitting Daphne down on a bench.

Jordy takes a few steps away from Daphne.

Jordy and Duffy turn.  Eddie walks out.  Eddie turns - Tommy -

the young detective who caught the case in the King Edward

Hotel - is coming out of the back office.

Tommy takes Daphne into the precinct.

Eddie leads the way, walking past the Sergeant's desk -

toward the back and to his office.

Eddie holds up his hand - silencing Jordy.

INT. POLICE PRECINCT - DETECTIVE ROOM'S SQUAD - DAY

A handful of detectives talk about work over burned coffee.

Eddie enters with Jordy.

They empty out.

Eddie gives Jordy a questioning look.

Jordy studies Eddie for a quiet beat.

Eddie picks up his cigar that's going out.  He sticks it in

his mouth.  A match is lit.  He looks up.  Jordy holds the

match.  Eddie dips the end of the cigar and puffs.  The

homicide detective and the fire marshal hold a look.

INT. EDDIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Eddie walks in - carrying flowers.  He closes and locks the

door behind him.  He grabs the phone.  Dials.

He looks at the flowers.  Decides to put the case behind him

for a moment.

He HANGS up.  Arranges the flowers in a vase.  So they look

perfect.  Sets them on the coffee table.  Fills out a card,

writes, "Nicky, I love you.

Will you marry me?"  He sticks the card in the flowers -

turns the lights down low.  Puts a romantic Sinatra song on

the stereo.  Moves to the liquor cabinet.  Pours himself a

drink.  He sets the ringbox on the coffee table - next to the

flowers.  There's a knock at the door.

Eddie smooths his hair, unlocks the door.  But the hallway is

empty.

No answer.  Eddie steps out in the hallway with the drink in

his hand.  Walks toward the elevator.  Doesn't notice the

shadow that passes behind him - entering his apartment.

Eddie turns.  No sign of anyone.

He walks back toward his apartment.  Turns and locks the

door.  A BLUR jumps out of the shadows SLAMMING him on the

head with a gun.  Eddie tumbles to the floor!  OUT COLD!

A BLURRED VIDEO IMAGE

as it's focused - on Eddie - handcuffed and upper body taped

to a chair - 20 minutes later - sobered up.  Emil is sitting

in front of him.  On the coffee table alongside him are the

flowers in a vase.  They've ransacked the place.  Emil has

Eddie's watch, his gold shield and his money.  He's smoking

one of Eddie's cigars and in Emil's hand...is the diamond

engagement ring and card.  Oleg, 60 MINUTES-style, is

positioned behind Emil videotaping Eddie.  He moves to the

corner of the room - bringing a light back over to illuminate

Eddie's face.

Eddie looks at the videocamera.  Emil answers Eddie's look.

Emil turns to Oleg.

Oleg obeys.  Emil turns to Eddie.

Eddie says nothing.  Just stares at Emil.  Emil puffs on

Eddie's cigar.

Emil looks at Oleg.

Emil looks at Eddie as if to say, "See what I have to put up

with."  Oleg gestures from behind the videocamera.

Oleg FILMS as Emil raises Eddie's service revolver.  Eddie

suddenly KICKS at Emil's hand, but Emil pulls it away,

backing out of Eddie's reach.

Emil raises the pistol again - pointing the gun at Eddie's

left temple.  Emil cocks the hammer, but Eddie avoids the

gun, ducking his head to the side of Emil's arm.  Standing

and following his head up Emil's arm and pushing him over

into the desk.  Eddie then knocks Emil with the chair and

Emil falls off the desk and onto the floor.

Oleg still grips the videocamera.  Eddie continues around

with the chair and drives Oleg back across the room - pinning

him to the wall.

Eddie comes back from Oleg to the gun at the same time as

Emil is limping for it.  Eddie knocks Emil out of the way

with the chair and then stabs him with the legs of the chair

repeatedly.

Eddie comes up and around again at Oleg who is coming at him

from the wall.  Eddie knocks Oleg over the coffee table and

onto the sofa.  Falling on top of him, rolling over and

leaving Oleg on the sofa.

Eddie manages to get up from the sofa and position the chair

in such a way that he can fall over backward and grab the

gun.  Emil limps toward the gun at the same time and it is

not clear in the darkness who has the gun.

Oleg gets up from the sofa and goes over to get the

videocamera.  Eddie has managed to get the gun and comes up

as Oleg is moving in with the camera and starts shooting

toward Oleg - managing to shoot one of the blinds off the

window and one of the lampshades off the lamp.

Oleg crouches down with the camera and Eddie starts to turn

toward Emil who comes at him with the knife and stabs him in

the stomach.

Emil steps back, revealing the knife is BURIED IN EDDIE'S

STOMACH.

Eddie stumbles backward, falling over but still attached to

the chair - holding the gun.  Eddie can't believe he got

stabbed.  Blood swells around his stomach.  He can't be

dying.  This can't be happening.  He looks at Emil.  The pain

is terrible.  Oleg has knelt down next to Eddie - getting a

close up.

Emil looks at Eddie.

Emil looks around.  Grabs a black pillow and finishes Eddie

off, suffocating him.

BLACKNESS

We are moving through a tunnel - pitch black, so dark all you

feel is the motion.  We are travelling very fast.  Finally,

in the distance, a speck of light which fills the frame.

We slowly pull back from the white light to discover it is a

tiny pixel on a TV screen.

WIDENING

further out we see Eddie's funeral on the evening news.  It's

an enormous gathering - a sea of blue uniforms and

dignitaries.  In the upper right hand corner, superimposed

over the funeral, is a picture of Eddie from his ID and in

his NYPD uniform.  We see Oleg's reflection on the set with

the videocamera.  He is filming the TV.  We hear the audio

from Eddie's funeral.

Leon is at the mic.

Leon begins to sing "Amazing Grace."  Oleg PANS from the TV

and focuses it on a lightbulb.  Hands enter the frame -

carefully pouring clear liquid into an ashtray.  A long

hypodermic needle slides into the ashtray - the plunger is

pulled back and the needle quickly fills with liquid.

Gingerly, the needle is inserted into the lightbulb.  Again,

the plunger moves and the lightbulb is filled and placed on a

table...next to a CAN OF GASOLINE.  VIDEOCAMERA ZOOMS OUT

revealing...Emil sitting at a hotel desk doing this.

INT. P.B. HERMAN'S RESTAURANT - DAY

It's packed with COPS drinking.  Prosecutors...lawyers...many

who were at the funeral, including Leon.  All wear the black

ribbon on their badges.  There's a quality of an Irish wake -

boisterous, guys cursing...many cops in uniform.  A buffet

has been laid out.

Hawkins enters in a black suit, wearing a black ribbon.  He

greets people, shaking hands, embracing Leon.

Hawkins notices a young man by the window.  Teary-eyed.  It's

Tommy.  Hawkins nods to him.

Hawkins moves on...greeting others.  He notices at the end of

the bar - sitting alone on a stool - is Nicolette.  He moves

to her.  Pulls up a stool alongside her.  She turns, looks at

him.  Just stares at him for a long beat.  She is bombed.

Definitely drunk.  She's had many.  She turns to Hawkins.

Hawkins touches her shoulder with compassion.

Nicolette is crying now.  She angrily wipes away a tear.

She's lost it.  Hawkins consoles her.  Nicolette shrugs him

off - turns back to her drink.  Downs the rest of it.  A

woman arrives, MAGGIE, Hawkins' producer - assistant in tow.

Robert steps off the stool.  Takes the phone.

Hawkins gives Nicolette a comforting squeeze on her shoulder.

Backs away from the bar.  Now out of hearing distance, he

looks back at Nicolette and lowers his voice.

We INTERCUT Emil on a public phone in the lobby of a movie

theater.  Oleg videotapes Emil on the phone, as he throws

glances into the theater.

CLICK.  The line goes dead.  Hawkins disconnects.  Hands the

phone back to Maggie.  She's looking at him.  Excited.

Hawkins looks at Nicolette.  His mind whirls.

INT. FIRE STATION 91 - KITCHEN - DAY

Daphne and Korfin are sitting at a table.  Korfin's arm is in

a sling, his side bandaged.  Duffy and Jordy enter in their

dress uniforms.  Korfin walks over to them.

Jordy's quiet.  Dazed.  Nobody can believe Eddie's gone.

Jordy looks at her.  Duffy sees them hold each other's look.

Duffy walks out.  Jordy leads Daphne out of the station.

Korfin follows.  A MAN IN A CHEAP SUIT is talking to Camello

who points as Jordy walks by.  The man chases after Jordy.

Jordy opens the papers.  Korfin puts Daphne in the car.

Walks back over to Jordy and reads over his shoulder.

Jordy remembers...and gets more depressed.

It's an old brownstone - in poor condition.  Jordy pulls up.

Opens the door for Daphne - takes her by the elbow - steering

her to the door.  He is edgy.  Jumpy.  Looking around.

He looks at her.  Nods.  They walk up to the stairs as the

front door opens.  A NEIGHBOR exits, shocked.  Jordy pulls

Daphne out of the way.

INT. DAPHNE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Jordy and Daphne make their way up the stairs.  A bouquet of

flowers are outside Daphne's apartment.

She takes the card.  Jordy looks over her shoulder.  Daphne

reads: "Good luck with all your troubles.  I'm here if you

need me...Ludwig."

They're staring in each other's eyes.  The sexual tension

strong.

They hold each other's eyes...then suddenly they kiss.

Urgently.  Passionately.  Somebody is coming up the stairs.

They part quickly.  A tenant enters his apartment down the

hall.  Jordy clears his throat.

He opens the door.  Peers inside - checking it out.  Turns to

her.  Gestures that it's okay to enter.

INT. DAPHNE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

It's very small.  Almost no furniture.  The bare minimum.

The apartment is a hole.  She looks at Jordy.  Both thinking

the same thought.  Another kiss.

She holds his look.

She heads down the hall.  Jordy enters the small kitchen.  He

flips on the kitchen light and the LIGHTBULB EXPLODES -

SETTING THE CEILING ON FIRE AND RELEASING A RAIN OF FIRE INTO

THE ROOM.  Jordy JUMPS BACK.

Jordy's more surprised than shaken.  It's a fire - he knows

the drill.  He pushes her into the living room.  Then notices

a FIRE EXTINGUISHER hanging on the wall.  Grabs it.  Aims it

at the FIRE spreading in the kitchen.  He SPRAYS as Daphne

SCREAMS!

WHOOOOOOOOOSH!  The fire extinguisher FEEDS THE FIRE!  Flames

leap up from the fire - shooting toward the extinguisher

because it's filled with gasoline.  The handle LOCKS!  Jordy

CAN'T TURN IT OFF.  Flames engulf the extinguisher and

JORDY'S HAND.

He flings the extinguisher - BACKS OUT OF THE KITCHEN.

Closes the door.  Jordy takes off his jacket.  Stuffs it

under the bottom of the door.  Blocking the smoke.  He

hurries into the living room.  Knowing it's moments before

the extinguisher will explode.  Jordy pulls out his cellular.

Hits the speed dial as he notices Daphne about to throw a

chair through the window.

Too late.  She SMASHES the window.  There's an EXPLOSION in

the kitchen.  Smoke and fire rush down the hallway and along

the ceiling.  Jordy yells into the phone:

He pulls Daphne toward the bedroom.  It's locked.  Jordy

kicks it open.  Grabs the comforter off the bed.  Shoves that

under the door jam.  He pulls Daphne into the bathroom.

Shuts the door.  Runs his severely burned hand under the cold

water.  Daphne looks out the window - hearing the sirens.

She notices someone has nailed the window shut.  And on top

of one nail...is Eddie's gold shield.

Jordy turns - sees Eddie's shield.

This freaks her out.  They were in her home.  She starts to

panic.

He pulls aside the curtain to the bathtub.  In it is a CAN OF

GASOLINE.  A virtual bomb.

Daphne reaches for the can of gasoline.

She grabs the can of gasoline - pours it down the drain.  The

FIRE is raging outside the bathroom.  The bathroom door is

beginning to smoke and burn.  They are trapped.

Jordy turns - grabs an exposed water pipe that runs up the

wall to the ceiling.  He throws his feet against the wall for

leverage.  Pulls with all his might to break it loose.  It's

creaking - but he's having a hard time with it.

Jordy looks over.  The gasoline she's pouring out - is not

going down the drain.  It's stopped up.  As soon as the fire

gets in the bathroom, everything will explode!

Jordy begins pulling at the rusty pipe with all his might.

Daphne comes over - helps him.  Both of them trying to break

it off.  Suddenly it snaps and water POURS into the room.

SOAKING THE WALLS.  They point the pipe toward the door,

soaking some of the flames which are consuming the door.

Trying to stop the fire from coming in.  He and Daphne are

drenched.  And trapped.

Jordy grabs a broken piece of pipe.  Starts SMASHING the wall

behind them.  The wall to the adjacent apartment.

VIDEO POV

Jordy and Daphne in the bathroom - surrounded by fire.

CAMERA WHIP PANS down the street as FIRE ENGINES arrive.

OLEG

is VIDEOTAPING them from the opposite rooftop.  Tenants from

Daphne's building are fleeing down the fire escape.  Emil

stands in back of Oleg - who is very excited.  He turns the

camera on himself.

The CAMERA PANS to Emil.

Emil waits a beat and then blows a kiss to the lens.

DAPHNE'S BATHROOM

Filled with smoke.  You can barely see Jordy or Daphne.

Jordy SMASHES a hole in the wall - which reveals the bathroom

in the apartment next door.  The smoke has a place to escape.

There's a 7-year old KID in there.  Standing in the bathroom.

Terrified.

Jordy pushes Daphne through the wall - turns as the bathroom

door catches fire.  It's seconds before the whole room will

blow up.

OLEG

Across the roof is videotaping the bathroom as it EXPLODES!

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Fire engines have arrived.  The street is filled with

gawkers.  Garcia and Korfin pull up just as Jordy runs from

the building - holding the kid in one arm and pulling Daphne

with the other.  Carefully guarding his bandaged hand.  A

fireman grabs the kid.  Another grabs Daphne.  Garcia and

Korfin run to Jordy.

He spots Daphne on the corner as a familiar voice pushes

through the crowd.

Jordy turns - it's Max.  The attention pyromaniac who Jordy

threw out of his office.  As a news crew arrives, Max turns

to the cameras.

Jordy grabs Max - pushes him away.

Korfin scans the crowd.  Looking for Emil and Oleg.  In the

b.g., Duffy is SCREAMING.

Jordy and Korfin turn.  The Chief has a phone to his ear and

is freaked.

INT. LOBBY OF CHANNEL 12 BROADCASTING - NIGHT

JORDY'S POV

as he enters the TV station.  His clothes burnt and still

wet.  The lobby's full of ANGRY COPS.  Tommy and Leon, still

in his funeral suit, SCREAMING above them all at Maggie the

producer and her ASSISTANT, who are standing behind the desk.

Leon jumps over the desk where Maggie stands.  Tommy pushes

past the security guard to follow Leon.  They continue toward

Maggie, pushing her further back into the office.  She tries

to protect herself with an office door which Leon slams open.

Leon, Tommy, all the cops and Jordy - turn toward a TV set

which is mounted in the lobby.  The "Top Story" logo flashes

on the screen, then Robert Hawkins is seen behind his desk.

Everyone is riveted.  But Jordy notices outside...a "Top

Story" NEWS VAN is waiting in the alley.  Robert Hawkins

jumps from a doorway and into the van.  Jordy backs out.

INT. PLANET HOLLWYOOD - NIGHT

POP...a video POV of a bottle of Crystal as the cork is

popped.  The videocamera pans up to Emil sitting at the

table.  He nods at the waiter who leaves.  Emil raises the

glass - looking into the lens.

The videocamera is lowered.  Oleg turns it off.  Asks

suspiciously.

Emil gestures toward the big television set.  We are in

Planet Hollywood - where diners and those by the bar can

watch a huge screen hanging from the ceiling.  Robert Hawkins

is introducing his show.

The restaurant BUZZES.  Emil checks his watch.

Emil laughs.  Oleg doesn't.

Emil points towards the TV.  "Top Story" is continuing.  The

scene cuts to Emil's video footage.  Eddie is handcuffed to

the chair.  The light illuminating his face.

Emil looks at Oleg - furious.

Oleg watches the big-screen TV as Emil raises the pistol to

Eddie's temple.  Eddie pushes him over the desk.  Eddie then

knocks Emil with the chair and Emil falls off the desk onto

the floor.  Eddie continues around with the chair and drives

Oleg back across the room - pinning him to the wall.  Eddie

and Emil both go for the gun.  Eddie knocks him out of the

way.  Stabs him with the legs of the chair repeatedly.

Leaves him in a ball on the floor.  Oleg comes at Eddie and

he knocks Oleg over the coffee table and onto the sofa.  The

blinds and lamp shade are shot - bathing the room with more

light.  Emil stabs Eddie in the stomach.  Oleg kneels down

for a CLOSE-UP.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - CONTINUOUS

Hawkins' van drives across Times Square.  Jordy's car

following.  We WIDEN OUT... Eddie's murder is being broadcast

on the JUMBOTRON in Times Square.  People stare up - stunned.

INT. PLANET HOLLWYOOD - CONTINUOUS

The dinner patrons are watching TV.  Shocked.  Emil glares at

Oleg.

Oleg tenses.  Emil laughs.

Oleg doesn't laugh.

Oleg is pissed.

Emil slaps Oleg across the face.  Oleg stands up.  Emil

suddenly pulls out Eddie's gun but before he can pull the

trigger, Oleg STABS Emil in the arm!  Emil squeezes off a

shot through the crowded restaurant.  Patrons SCREAM - Oleg

runs through the restaurant, escaping.  It's chaos.

Hawkins arrives with a crew and with BRUCE CUTLER, a

confident, tough criminal attorney.

Emil pulls the steak knife out of his arm, picks up a napkin -

pressing it to his wound.

Cutler accesses the situation.

Emil picks up a briefcase and hands it to Cutler.  Cutler

opens it - inside is the cash Emil got from Robert Hawkins.

Emil looks at the table, pushing the plates and silverware

aside.  Emil looks under the table, throwing the chair aside,

freaking.  He's lost the most important thing in his life.

Jordy comes in, gun raised.

Emil puts his hands in the air.  Immediately drops the gun!

Jordy is disappointed!  He didn't want to take Emil alive.

Hawkins signals to his camera man, who swings his camera at

Jordy as he approaches Emil, his gun aimed at Emil's head.

Jordy cracks Emil across the face - knocking him down.

Jordy handcuffs him.  Emil turns to the camera for sympathy,

appearing more hurt than he is.

Jordy realizes how media savvy Emil is and understands in

that moment why he's surrendering.  Jordy yanks Emil up -

dragging him across the restaurant floor - Emil still

favoring his ankle.

The "Top Story" crew is all over them, filming everything.

Cutler stays close to Emil.  Making sure he's in the video

footage.

EXT. PLANET HOLLWYOOD - CONTINUOUS

As Jordy comes out with a limping Emil, police are arriving.

Tommy, Leon and Murphy run over as Jordy opens the back door

to his car.  Leon grabs Emil.

Leon realizes Jordy wants to be seen on TV taking Emil into

custody.

Leon stares hatefully into Emil's eyes.

Cutler hurries to Emil's side.

Tommy shoves Cutler aside.

Jordy pushes Emil in the back seat and slams the door.  Leon

turns to Hawkins, whose cameras are filming everything.

Leon looks at him. This man used to be his friend.

The cameras are rolling.

Leon and the other cops rush to their cars.  Jordy is already

behind the wheel.  As soon as Tommy jumps in the passenger

seat, Jordy takes off.  The cameras film him driving away.

INT. JORDY'S CAR - NIGHT

Jordy takes a left turn, racing away.  Running all the

lights.

Jordy rips through another turn, heading toward the West Side

Highway.  The car speeds up the ramp and races up the left

lane - having lost the police.

Jordy looks up at Emil in the rear view mirror.

EXT. WEST SIDE HIGHWAY EXIT - CONTINUOUS

Jordy pulls off on 130th Street.  They are way uptown in the

middle of nowhere.  The car drives down a dark street.

Crumbled, vacant buildings dominate the streets and there are

no people around.

EXT. DESERTED STREET - CONTINUOUS

The car slows down.  Tommy watches Jordy, realizes what's

going on.  Jordy stops at a dead end.  Pulls open the back

door, yanks Emil out and starts to drag him up into the

deserted tunnel.

Jordy ignores Tommy, slamming him up against the tunnel wall.

Jordy tosses the car keys to Tommy.

Tommy nervously backs up toward Jordy's car.  Climbs behind

the wheel and drives away, leaving Jordy and Emil alone in

the darkness.  Jordy takes out Eddie's pistol.  The one Emil

took from Eddie.  Jordy opens the cylinder - two bullets

left.  Jordy snaps the cylinder shut, tucks Eddie's gun in

Emil's belt.  He drags Emil away from the wall, into the

center of the empty space - unlocks Emil's handcuffs and

throws them aside.  Still holding the gun on Emil, he circles

around to face him.

Now facing Emil, he sticks his gun in his waistband - the

same place he put Emil's.

Emil holds his arms out - making it clear he's not going for

the gun.

Emil watches Jordy...a slow grin spreads across his face.

Jordy pulls out his 9mm and pushes the barrel right between

Emil's eyes.

Emil gets on his knees and starts to sing in Czech.  SIRENS

fill the air.  Police cars come flying down the street.

Leon runs up.  Tommy's relieved to see Jordy didn't kill

Emil.

Emil is still smiling.  Jordy suddenly slams Emil in the

face.  Knocking him to the floor.  He jumps in his car and

speeds away.

A room service WAITER wheels a tray with a magnum bottle of

Crystal, with three glasses, toward Oleg's room.  Jordy

follows behind him - gun aimed at his back.

They reach the room.  Jordy flattens himself against the

wall.  The waiter KNOCKS.

A HOOKER, wrapped in a towel, opens the door a crack, looking

out at the waiter.

Jordy whips around the corner - pointing his gun and pushing

the hooker back out of the room.  Jordy moves to the bedroom

door.  Peers through the crack.  Oleg sits on the edge of the

bed in his skivvies with two naked prostitutes.  He's hooked

up his videocamera to the TV set and is showing them his

footage of the fire.

Jordy KICKS in the door - gun raised.

Oleg grabs the videocamera.  Has on hooker in a head lock and

picks up the other one.  He rushes at Jordy - using one of

the hookers for protection.

Oleg pushes the hookers at Jordy - knocking Jordy back into

the living room and over the back of the sofa.  Oleg rushes

out into the

HOTEL HALLWAY

Oleg runs to the fire exit - Jordy follows, chasing Oleg down

the stairwell.

EXT. BROADWAY - NIGHT

Oleg bursts out a door which opens onto Broadway.  He runs

through the crowd - knocking pedestrians aside!  Jordy chases

him, gun in hand!

Oleg runs into the street, darting in and out of traffic,

cars braking to a stop.  One SLAMS into another.

Jordy leaps over a car, closing in on Oleg.  People gawk.

Even in New York, it's odd to see a man being chased in his

underwear.  Oleg runs, knocking people aside.  He's holding

the camera in his hand.  It's on.

A UNIFORMED COP turns as Oleg runs right into him.  Knocking

him down.  Oleg beats him, takes his gun and runs into:

INT. MOVIE THEATER LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Oleg, gun in hand, runs past the TICKET TAKER at the door.

The ticket taker runs after Oleg who continues past the candy

counter.  Jordy rushes in the door.

Jordy continues running through the lobby - past the middle

door - and enters the theater through the far door.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Jordy enters the theater, crouches down in the aisle.  It's a

night scene, the theater is dark.  Jordy tries to see faces.

He cuts through a row of seats to the middle aisle.

Jordy spins toward the voice - it's a DRUNK.  Others start

YELLING for blood!

A GUNSHOT!  Jordy ducks!  Another GUNSHOT!  Jordy realizes

the shots are coming from the screen.

Jordy turns.  Oleg stands up and FIRES at him - trying to

film Jordy's death with a videocamera.

Jordy ducks, then rises up with his gun as Oleg vaults over

the seats, leaping from one to the other, mashing shoulders

and heads, bounding for the screen.

Jordy FIRES as the screen villain blasts away.  Some in the

audience don't realize the real thing is happening.  Oleg

leaps on the stage in front of the screen, illuminated by it.

Jordy runs down the aisle.  Oleg FIRES at Jordy.  Jordy FIRES

back.  People panic - scurrying away - Jordy can't get a

clear shot.  Oleg FIRES again, wounding a moviegoer.  Jordy

raises up as the theater lights go on...and Oleg is gone!

Jordy jumps on the stage - runs backstage - Oleg has

disappeared.

SIRENS are heard from outside.  VOICES of cops are heard as

they enter.

CLOSE ON TV

A REPORTER is in Times Square, reports from outside the movie

theater.

The channel is changed.  PETER ARNETT is reporting the same

story.

INT. JAIL CELL - WIDER - DAY

Daphne sitting on a bench in a jail cell.  Watching TV

through the bars.  She is in the fire department's holding

cell in Brooklyn.

The scene CUTS TO Cutler's press conference.

INT. BELLEVUE - MENTAL OBSERVATION UNIT - DAY

The CAMERA WIDENS from the TV set.  We are now in an

interview room, a guard is posted outside the room.  Emil

sits at a small table - with Cutler.  Emil is dressed in

Bellevue clothes.  He's handcuffed and his ankle is bandaged.

Emil gives a complimentary nod toward Cutler.

Cutler shakes a cigarette out of the pack, stuffs it in

Emil's mouth and lights it for him.  Emil has never smoked

before.

Emil leans forward.  Cutler retrieves the cigarette from

between his lips.

He puts the cigarette back in Emil's mouth.

Cutler stuffs another cigarette in Emil's mouth.  Lights it.

Cutler takes the cigarette from Emil's lips and extinguishes

it.

Emil rises.  Cutler comes around and pulls his shirt up.  HIS

ENTIRE BACK IS COVERED WITH DISGUSTING PURPLISH WELTS FROM

CIGARETTE BURNS.  Cutler recoils - horrified.

INT. FIRE STATION 91 - DUFFY'S OFFICE - DAY

Inside the Arson Squad, Duffy sits behind his desk.  Jordy

stands across the table from his Chief.  Behind Jordy we can

see Garcia and Korfin outside, listening.  Duffy has a

subpoena in his hand.

Jordy sighs.  Dying inside.  He surrenders his shield.  Drops

his handcuffs, his pager and his gun.  Duffy picks up the gun

- looks at it.

Jordy sighs and exits.

INT. IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION OFFICE - DAY

Jordy is talking to BILL STERN, a senior special agent.  In

another office we see Daphne with two 25-year old ASSISTANT

U.S. ATTORNEYS.

Stern looks over at Daphne sitting in another office.  Lowers

his voice.

Jordy gives him a look.

Jordy enters the other office.  Sits next to Daphne.  The

assistant U.S. Attorneys leave.

Daphne takes Jordy's bandaged hand in hers.

Daphne touches her finger to his lips.

She leans in and kisses him.  Then looks into his eyes,

trying to find a smile.

EXT. FEDERAL COURT HOUSE STEPS - DAY

It's weeks later.  Nicolette is looking worn, tired,

frazzled.  She's trying to go through her stand up.  But

she's unraveling.  Not recovered from the loss of Eddie.

She starts over.

INT. JORDY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jordy's on the couch.  A drink in his hand, watching TV with

his dog, ZACK.  Jordy's eyes are glazed.  He's drunk, his

eyes are as bloodshot as Eddie's were...without his job or

Daphne.

His mind miles away - the dog and drink are his only comfort.

As Nicolette reports (she got the name right), her anger

seeps through her broadcast.

Jordy's face is flashed on screen.  The phone RINGS.  Jordy

picks up.

He hangs up.  The phone RINGS AGAIN.

Jordy hangs up.  Changes the channel.  He stops as Robert

Hawkins' face fills the screen.  He is standing across from

someone - in a park - interviewing him.

The ANGLE CUTS to Zwangendaba, the mugger, now dressed in a

suit and tie.  Clean shaven and with a fresh haircut.  He

stands in the same spot where Jordy handcuffed him to the

tree.  He's appearing on "Top Story".

The phone RINGS again.  Jordy suddenly pulls the phone off

the table and throws it through the window:

BACK TO TV

as the channel is changed.  A REPORTER is on TV.  Behind him

is a picture of Emil.  Emil is smiling, in a shirt and tie.

The reporter stands in front of the jail.

REVERSE ANGLE

Oleg is at a bar watching TV.  Poisoned with envy.

INT. JORDY'S BEDROOM - NEXT MORNING

Jordy stands in front of the mirror over the dresser.  We see

the TV overturned in the b.g.  His back up gun is on it.  He

stares at it.  Dark thoughts dancing in his head.

EXT. BATTERY PARK - DAY

Jordy sits in a taxi, wearing sunglasses.  Looking inside the

park where a POLICE BARRICADE surrounds a POLICE TUGBOAT.

Cutler and Emil are arriving - Emil is being transferred to

Rykers Island.  Jordy pulls his .38 out of his ankle holster

and sticks it in his pocket.

CLOSE ON METER

to $42.00.  The TAXI DRIVER looks in the rearview mirror.

Jordy takes out money.  All he's got is fifty bucks and he

crams it into the slot.

Jordy exits the cab.  The anger rising inside his body is

coming to a boiling point.  He walks into the park.  Leon is

sitting on a bench.  Just sitting there.  Also filled with

rage and frustration.  Jordy meets his eyes.  Leon gets up

and walks away.  Disgusted by it all.  Jordy's right hand

grips the gun inside his pocket as he walks on.

HIGH WIDE SHOT

Many policemen are trying to control a swarm of reporters.

All are waiting for Emil.  WE SEE:

HAWKINS

and his camera crew, and, not far from him - frustrated and

frazzled, waits Nicolette.  Still grieving her loss, she

looks over at Hawkins and his crew.  She shoots him a

disgusted look - Hawkins shrugs it off.  He checks his watch -

anxious - looks at his cameraman.

THE POLICE VAN PULLS UP

Cutler's car behind it.  Emil - handcuffed - is unloaded from

the van.  Reporters swarm forward - Cutler gets out of his

car, hurrying up, taking his place alongside Emil and the

POLICE ESCORTS.  The swarm follows - firing questions at

Cutler.  He answers the barrage of questions with:

Jordy walks alongside the moving mass.  His eyes focused on

Emil - his hand in his pocket.  We notice in the crowd Max,

the celebrity-crazed pyromaniac.  What's he doing here?

Max's hand is also stuck deeply in his pocket.  A weird gleam

in his eye.  We see Korfin in the group, speaking to other

cops.  Nicolette and her camera crew are vying for their

place in the mass.  She watches Emil with quiet rage.  Cutler

continues:

They are through the monuments, approaching the steps when

Jordy passes a distracted Hawkins - who's checking his watch

obsessively.

Jordy glares at Emil.  Emil looks back at Jordy, gloating.

Smiles.  He won.  He beat the system.  Jordy suddenly erupts.

Emil stares down Jordy.  Jordy grips the gun inside the

jacket.

A PATROLMAN blocks Jordy from Emil.

Jordy moves past the officer.  Emil breaks away from Cutler.

Gets in Jordy's face.  Laughs quietly.

Jordy shoves Emil into Cutler.  A scuffle breaks out as the

cops separate the two - pulling Jordy back as we cut to:

A VIDEO POV

as it approaches Hawkins from behind.  A hand dips into frame

tapping Hawkins on the shoulder.  Hawkins turns - sees who

he's been waiting for.  His face lights up.

IT'S OLEG

In disguise - sunglasses and a hat.  Holding his videocamera.

MEANWHILE JORDY

has been separated from Cutler and Emil as Hawkins' voice

cuts above the din of the crowd, announcing excitedly:

Reporters turn as Hawkins speaks.  His crew is taping as he

continues introducing his broadcast:

Reporters swing their cameras over as Oleg holds his

videocamera up in the air.

Oleg PLAYS his videocamera as lenses focus, we see excerpts

of the moment where Emil explains to Eddie:

The police are attempting to get to Oleg, but a sea of

reporters separate them.  We hear the staccato calls from the

press corps.  Nicolette looks on in amazed outrage.  Jordy

notices and starts moving towards her.  Before the POLICE

CAPTAIN in charge of the detail can react, the rage which

killed Milos, Tamina and Honey wells up inside Emil.  He

yells at Oleg!

Oleg pulls his gun.  Emil pulls Cutler in front of him as:

BANG!

Oleg FIRES!  Cutler is SHOT and goes down.  Hawkins swings

his camera over to Oleg - filming the would-be assassin.

Oleg FIRES off another SHOT - hitting the COURT OFFICER

escorting Emil.  Emil grabs the down officer's gun.  He

swivels - rapid fires at Oleg.  Oleg topples.  People are

screaming.  It's CHAOS.

Emil darts forward - grabbing Nicolette who is closes to him.

He puts his handcuffed arms over her head - points the gun at

her head.

We hear Jordy's voice above Emil.

The captain is screaming at all his men.

Cops reluctantly lower their weapons.  But Jordy is still

aiming his gun at Emil.  He is the only one who hasn't

lowered his gun.  The captain is yelling at him.

Emil is screaming back at the captain as Jordy screams at

Emil.

Jordy doesn't lower his gun.  Emil tries to back away.  The

reporters - who have ducked and covered - are still keeping

their lenses pointed at the scene.  This is great film!

Jordy follows after Emil - his gun raised.

Meanwhile, the captain is still yelling:

Nicolette is still encouraging Jordy.

Everyone is screaming at once.  It's mass chaos.  The captain

is trying to keep everyone calm.  Cops following along with

their weapons lowered.  All except Jordy - his gun still

pointed at Emil.

Hawkins can't believe what footage he's getting.  He's

pushing his cameraman to the front of the pack.  Trying to

get the best coverage.

He's pointing at Jordy but he's continuing to back away

towards the police boat.

Jordy won't take his gun off him.

The captain is yelling at Jordy.

Jordy struggles to get a clean shot at Emil.  He can't.  His

heart pounding.  Adrenaline pumping.  He suddenly lowers his

weapon.  Turns away.  The captain visibly relaxes.  Emil

laughs.  Jordy suddenly turns back.  Quickly raises his

weapon.

JORDY SHOOTS

Emil takes a shot in the leg.  Nicolette ducks under the

handcuffs and scurries away.  Emil looks at Jordy - surprised

he shot him.  Jordy FIRES AGAIN.  Emil is hit in the

shoulder.  Jordy marches forward, EMPTYING HIS CLIP in Emil's

chest.  Abdomen.  Head.  Gun fire echoes in the humid air as

Emil stumbles back.  Does a funny dance and drops to the

ground.  Dead.  The captain yells.

Jordy quietly answers:

Hawkins looks down at Oleg.  He is sprawled on the ground.

His videocamera in hand - he's still making the movie.

OLEG'S VIDEO POV

as it ZOOMS from the Statue of Liberty and PANS to Oleg.  He

looks in the lens with his dying eyes, gasps:

And Oleg dies but suddenly his eyes pop WIDE OPEN.  Hawkins

jumps back, Oleg smiles, coughing in pain.

Oleg's head rolls to one side.  Now dead.  Nicolette runs

over to Jordy.  Composing herself.  Coming together.  Glad

Emil is dead.  Jordy starts to walk away.

She turns him around.  Straightens his tie.  Starts to push

the hair out of his face but he stops her hand.

Jordy puts something in her hand.  She looks down.  It's

EDDIE'S BADGE.  The one Jordy took out of Daphne's bathroom.

She looks up at him.  Her cameraman rolling.  The lens

pointed at Jordy.  Jordy looks at Nicolette.  Meets her eyes.

He doesn't want to make a statement.  He still doesn't want

the fame.  He did learn from Eddie.  Eddie was killed because

he was a celebrity.  Jordy wants no part of it.

Her cameraman lowers his leans.  Jordy smiles.  She nods.

Jordy turns and walks away.

Jordy disappears into the sea of people.  The camera PANS

back to Nicolette.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK from Nicolette's face and the video is

now on:

THE JUMBOTRON IN TIMES SQUARE

We PULL BACK FURTHER and FURTHER.  Nicolette finishing her

stand up:

THE SCREEN

