AMERICAN HISTORY X

screenplay by

David McKenna

February 6, 1997

INT. HOUSE - CLOSED EYES

A young man's blue eyes slowly open.  A girl moans from the next room.

EXT. STREET CORNER - A LARGE TIRE

turns the corner and splashes through a puddle from an

earlier rain. TUPAC SHAKUR blares from inside.

INT. HOUSE - TIGHT ON THE EYES

They snap wide as the young woman in the next room MOANS

even louder.

EXT. VENICE BEACH HOUSE - A WET NIGHT

A slight buzz emanates from the power lines and street

lights above the humble VINYARD household. A black FORD

BRONCO rests in the driveway.

EXT. WET STREET - A GRAY TRANS AM

TUPAC'S rapping builds. The window-tinted drive-by

slowly heads down the residential street, cruises past

the Bronco in the driveway, and slows to a stop. The

music stops and TWO BLACK MEN spring from the car.

They move with purpose. The larger figure, crowbar in

hand, moves to the truck. The GUN wielding passenger

hurries to the front door and stands guard. Inside the

car, another man methodically waits.

INT. BEDROOM - DANNY VINYARD'S EYES

The sex happening in the next room makes it difficult for

Danny to sleep. Next to a digital clock that reads

3:07AM, the clean cut 14-year-old flips to his side.

A poster of Lee Ving of FEAR onstage, taped to the wall.

Pre-Calculus and Biology books on the floor. Cassettes

scattered on his tiny desk. A stereo in the corner.

The off-screen sound of breaking glass grabs Danny's

attention. He sits up and looks through the blinds.

EXT. HOUSE - SAME

Danny SEES a man reach through the broken window and

unlock the door. He quickly. pans to the idling Trans Am.

INT. DANNY'S BEDROOM - TIGHT ON DANNY

His fearful expression says it all.

Holy shit.

Danny quickly bolts out of his room and into the adjacent

bedroom down the hall. He barges through the door.

INT. DEREK'S BEDROOM - A NAZI IRON EAGLE BATTLE FLAG

It hangs above a serious computer and next to a giant,

tome-filled bookshelf. The moans, meanwhile, approach

orgasm.

TIGHT ON DEREK VINYARD. The young man has a shaved head,

a thick goatee, and a well-crafted SWASTIKA on his left

tit. On top of Derek in the bed is his barely-of-age

girlfriend, STACEY. The covers are completely off and a

BLACK ROSE is tattooed across her right shoulder blade.

Danny watches her fuck, only for a second.

(softly)

Der !

Danny walks over and shakes him. Startled, Derek

forcefully grabs his little brother's arm.

(controlled)

What?

Stacey stops and looks over.  Frustated, she rolls off

Derek and onto her side.

Fucking pervert, Dan!

There's a black guy outside Der...

breaking into your car.

Derek, muscled and tattooed, jumps out of the bed and

quickly puts on his skivvies. He reaches under his

mattress, pulls out a SIG .45 semi-automatic pistol, and

shoves in a clip.

How long has he been out there?

Not long.

STACEY

Who?

Nobody. Relax.

Stacey sits up quickly from the bed as Derek pulls on his

black combat boots.

Who's out there, Derek?

Not right now, honey.

How many?

One...I think.

Is he strapped?

Hunh?

Does he have a fucking gun, Dan?

I'm not sure.

Is there a driver?

Danny nods his head yes.

Okay.  Stay the luck here.

Derek? Be careful.

He looks at his girlfriend and walks off.

INT. HALLWAY - SAME

TIGHT ON DEREK. He walks down the hall. The intensity

on his face is alarming. He stops at the front door and

grabs the doorknob. Before he turns the knob, he peeks

through the eye hole on the door.

EXT. HOUSE - DEREK'S EYE POV

THE BLACK GUARD carelessly turns toward the driveway to

see what's taking his partner so long with the wires.

INT. HOUSE - DEREK AT THE DOOR

The guard has his back to him. Derek goes.

EXT. HOUSE - THE DUEL

Derek throws open the door and the black man standing

guard wheels and fires a shot into the front door. Derek

buries two bullets in his chest.

Fuck you!

The force propels the man six feet backwards.

INT./EXT. BRONCO - THE OTHER MAN

Stunned by the gunfire, he charges back to the getaway

Tranny. Derek buries a bullet into his shoulder. The

car splits and Derek fires a shot through the side

window. He then walks towards the car and fires shot

after shot at it until it disappears.

INT. VINYARD HOUSEHOLD - DARKNESS

Davina and Doris Vinyard yell in the background like they

were in Vietnam. They meet in the hallway, still not

able to place the direction of the gunfire.

DAVINA

MOM!!!!

STAY DOWN, HONEY!  DANNY?!

They stay down on the carpet together.

EXT. BEDROOM - DANNY'S POV

From the rain-soaked window he watches Derek face his

wounded prey - crawling on the ground. Sirens sound from

a distance.

Get down, Danny! Jesus!

TIGHT ON DANNY. His gaze is locked on his brother from

his bedroom window. Derek cocks his piece, points it and

walks toward the man.

TIGHT ON DEREK'S FACE. Eyes blistering.

FADE TO BLACK:

THREE YEARS LATER

EXT. POLICE STATION - EARLY MORNING

A black man in a suit and tie, ROBERT SWEENEY, goes

through the automatic doors and into the station. He

approaches a DESK SERGEANT. A daily calendar on her desk

reads MONDAY. MARCH 3. 1997.

Captain Rasmussen?

Briefing room. Down that hall...third

door on the left.

INT. BRIEFING ROOM - A MEETING

Cops and detectives sit attentively and a few sip coffee.

The clock on the wall above reads 7:38 AM. Middle-aged

with slicked-back hair, CAPTAIN JOHN RASMUSSEN finishes a

thought. He spots Sweeney as he enters and aimlessly

reaches for a file.

RASMUSSEN

All right. Moving on--

(acknowledging)

Good Morning, Doctor.

The group looks over and meets Sweeney's hard glare.

Good morning.

Gentlemen, this is Dr. Bob Sweeney.

He's Principal over at Venice High and

for some time now he's done a load of

outreach work with gangs...in and out

of the can.

Sweeney nods as Rasmussen cough.  He sips water and

continues.

Three years ago a local kid named

Derek Vinyard gets sent up for

murdering a couple of Crips who were

trying to jack his car. Bob taught

Vinyard back in high school and has

followed the case closely.

He was a skinhead, right?

Derek was more like...the skinhead.

He and Cameron Alexander.

COP #2

Who?

Rasmussen opens a FILE in front of him. There rests

Derek's mug shot. He flips it over and reveals

CAMMERON'S MUG SHOT. Front and side view.

Cammeron Alexander is probably the

biggest writer and distributor of

white power literature in LA County.

He promotes white power bands, writes

reviews, columns, all at the ripe age

of forty.

He's forty? Jesus.

Pretty clean record...runs everything

out of his house down by the beach.

There weren't any organized white

gangs around Venice before those two

hooked up. Very few, if any. It was

mostly just black and Mexican. But it

was tiny. They hit it off though...

and Alexander hit the jackpot with

Derek.

Rasmussen reaches over and pushes play on a VCR.

We got some uncut footage here.

Courtesy of NBC.

ON THE TELEVISION--

Earlier this evening...LA County

Firefighter Dennis Vinyard was shot

and killed while putting out a fire in

a suspected Compton drug den.

This being February of '90.

EXT. VINYARD HOUSEHOLD - A LIVE BROADCAST - VIDEOTAPE

A YOUNGER DEREK, short haired with no tattoos, stands

next to the reporter. Derek wears a Venice High

Basketball jersey drenched in sweat. Towel around neck,

he thinks to himself as the man speaks into the camera.

To my right I have Lieutenant

Vinyard's oldest son Derek.

How do you feel about all this, son?

How do I feel? How do you think I

feel? It's typical.

Typical how, Derek?

Well...look at our country. It's a

haven for criminals. Black...brown...

yellow...whatever.

So you're saying the murder of your

father is "race" related?

Every problem in this country is

"race" related. Every problem, not

just crime. These problems are rooted

in the black community, the Hispanic

community, the Asian...every non-

Protestant group in our society.

Look at the shit. Immigration...

welfare...AIDS...they're all the

problems of the non-white. Look at

the statistics.

Most of these issues you're referring

to though son are related to--

No no no! Don't say poverty right now

cause that's not it. They're not a

product of our fucking environment

either! Minorities don't give two

shits about this country! They're

here to exploit...not embrace.

When Alexander got his hands on this

segment...he copied it, sent it out

and it became the Gettysberg Address

for hate groups across the country.

BACK TO THE TELEVISION.

Millions of white Europeans came to

this country and flourished within a

generation! A generation! So what

the fuck is wrong with these people?!

What does any of this have to do with

your father?

Because my father was doing his

fucking job! Saving a nigger

neighborhood he didn't give two shits

about! And he got killed by some drug

dealer who still collects a fucking

welfare check.

Derek looks at the man and walks over to HIS MOTHER

DORIS, who smokes a cigarette. The camera follows him as

he puts his arm around her and escorts her back inside

their Venice Beach residence. The camera pans back to

the reporter who just stands there, speechless.

INT. BRIEFING ROOM - SAME

Rasmussen ejects the tape, the screen turns to fuzz, and

he turns it off.

Vinyard was quietly released from

Chino on Saturday after three and some

odd years. And I think it's something

we might want to keep an eye on for a

few days.

I don't wanna be an alarmist. But

payback is out there. I know it is.

And in this particular case...if

Vinyard gets popped...more people will

get popped.

It's not exactly LAPD policy but I

want 24-hour surveillance on Vinyard

for a few days.

(smiling in disbelief)

Twenty-four hour surveillance, sir?

Just for a few days.

He doesn't sound like Mr. Lovely here,

Captain. You want us to bust him or

protect him?

Rasmussen offers Sweeney a look that it's his question.

I don't think Vinyard's gonna be the

one to start anything. It's his

following.

Either way...let's keep it low.

CUT TO:

EXT. VENICE BEACH BOARDWALK - MORNING

PEACEFUL DAY by PENNYWISE blasts from Danny's walkman

headphones. The day is cloudy and overcast but that

doesn't bother the local SURFERS. A twosome paddles

north to get a better break on the next set. Danny

watches as he skateboards down the strand.

His appearance is changed, now resembling a younger,

softer Derek.

Head shaved to a quarter of an inch, he wears a PLAIN

WHITE BACKPACK with punk/white power bands scribbled all

over it. Your standard Sex Pistols, DK, Germs, G.B.M.,

and Adolescents in black. Cro-Magnons and Skrewdriver

off to the left. In red is the largest name, DICK NIXON.

CUT TO:

The two smile at one another as the FIRST BELL RINGS.

INT. SCHOOL BATHROOM - A URINAL

Danny takes a piss. Outside, a voice pleads "It wasn't

me!" DARYL DAWSON, pale and thin, is shoved into the

bathroom and he trips into the sink. LITTLE HENRY, a

young black kid, enters with two of his buddies. Danny

zips up and faces them.

Little Henry cracks Daryl in the face and practically

knocks him down with one shot. A bleeding Daryl

struggles to his hands and knees behind Danny.

Danny stares into Henry's eyes and the trio exits. Dannv

helps Daryl back up to the sink. THE SECOND BELL RINGS.

CUT TO:

INT. CLASS - SAME

Kids have just settled into their seats.  Danny walks in

and tries to be discrete.

Vinyard!?

An OLDER TEACHER writes an Algebra problem on the board

for the students to solve.

You're late.

The man grabs a pink slip off his desk and hands it to

Danny.

But it looks like you got bigger

problems.

Oh, man! Come on. Get a job.

The teacher stares at him.

CUT TO:

INT. PRINCIPAL LOBBY - DANNY

He sits in a chair next to an office door marked DR.

ROBERT SWEENEY - PRINCIPAL. Danny glances at the

secretary as she types and talks on the phone.

TIGHT ON DANNY. He listens to the conversation through

the the crack in the door as his eyes swell.

I do not have a problem with him as an

individual, alright!?

Oh shit Murray sure you do.  You hate

this kid.

INT. OFFICE - THE CONVERSATION

The bespectacled, short-haired MURRAY ROSENBERG, 48,

looks over and spots Danny listening outside. Murray

walks over and shuts the door. He looks at DR. SWEENEY,

who now has his jacket off.

He points to a typewritten report on the desk and smiles

in horror. It is titled BOOK REPORT--MEIN KAMPF.

"Daniel Vinvard - American History" is in the upper left

hand corner.

This paper is a travesty, Bob!

Arguing for Hitler as a civil rights

hero?! You've gotta draw a line.

Murray...it says in your syllabus that

they could do their report on any book

related to the struggle for Civil

Rights.

Oh come on, Bob!

Let me finish! He needs help...I'm

not disputing that. But I read it and

I'm not going to throw him out.

His brother probably put him up to it.

I can guarantee you his brother didn't

have anything to do with it, Murray.

Murray sighs and takes off his glasses.

Don't let him walk scot-free here.

For his sake...not mine. You might be

all he has left.

Sweeney stares at the younger teacher and nods.

CUT TO:

EXT. OFFICE - THE DOOR OPENS

Murray walks out and turns back to Sweeney.

Danny and Murray make hostile eye contact.

INT. OFFICE - DANNY ENTERS

Before he even gets through the door he's chastised.

Danny does what he's told. Sweeney stares at the

teenager and leans back in his chair.

Adjusting okay?

Yeah.

He was a student of mine. Honors

English. He was a great student...

like you...but he hung out with

scumbags. Also like you. That's why

he ended up in the pen, hunh?

No answer. Sweeney holds up Danny's paper.

Great writing. I can't correct it

though. It wreaks too much of shit.

Come on, man! I followed directions

and wrote an "A" paper. It's got

nothing to do with Derek.

Everything you do now has something to

do with Derek. Who told you to do

this?

Let us get on with our lives, man!

Hey, I'm not worried about Derek--he

can take care of himself.  I'm worried

about his little brother.

(softly)

Mein Kampf, Dan? I should expel you!

Do it. What?  You don't think I could

handle it?

The street would kill you, Danny.

You're not tough. The second a

brother pulls a gun on your ass you'll

be holierin' for Doris.

So here's the drill. Take it or leave

it cause I'm sick of babysitting. I'm

your history teacher from here on out.

We're gonna deal with shit happening

right now. Call it American

History...X. I see your ass once a

day. Any more, any less, and you're a

memory at Venice High. Clear?

It took me a week to read Mein Kampf.

Come on, Sweeney.

My name is Dr. Sweeney. And I want a

another paper on my desk tomorrow.

What am I doing it on then?

It'S not a "what", it's a "who."

Derek.

SMASH TO:

EXT. VENICE SHORELINE - LATE AFTERNOON

A series of intercuts shows activity in and around the

pier. A HOMELESS LATINO MAN searches a trash dumpster.

OPEN VENDORS sell tie-dye and water bong paraphernalia.

A FAT WOMAN walks past eating a hot dog. BLACK GANG

MEMBERS play basketball in their low-rider shorts and

boxers.

TIGHT ON DANNY. He skateboards down the boardwalk,

performing tricks and spinning the board. He eats shit,

recovers, and looks off into the distance.

People look at me...and they see my

brother. That's how things have gone

since the murder of our father.

EXT. BOARDWALK - NEAR THE BASKETBALL COURT

From afar, he spots a group of black gang members shoot

hoops. He and Little Henry from earlier exchange a cold

glance.

Little Henry Hastings and his older

brother Jerome. Jerome's a Shoreline

Crip...Henry's on his way.

Little Henry and older brother JEROME catch their breath

and stare down Dan. Danny doesn't flinch. Jerome sips

from a 40 oz. beer and resumes playing.

Venice Beach, man. It didn't always

look like this. I mean...our Dad used

to take us down here to run...and it

was cool. Derek fucking owned this

place.        Since then though...the gangs,

man--

TIGHT ON DANNy. He watches the basketball action as he

takes a drag off his Marlboro Red.

--they've moved west from Inglewood

and South Central and have really

just...taken over. Especially at my

high school. The Venice Locos are big

too but they hang out in bumluck Mar

Vista. It's scary.

And then there's The Disciples of

Christ. The D.O.C.

Jerome and Little Henry joke and argue with eight extra

players and spectators.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - A GAME - FLASHBACK

DANNY'S POV. The teams are a mixed assemblage of 3

blacks and 2 Latinos and 3 whites and 1 black and 1

Latino. SKINHEAD FAT SETH RYAN, early twenties, and his

two skinhead buddies, can't compete against the better,

predominantly black team. One of the skins, CURTIS, has

a shaved head, a light beard and an M-16 RIFLE tattooed

on his head.

JEROME and LITTLE HENRY sit together to the right of the

court and monitor closely. Danny looks over his left

shoulder and sees Derek and Stacey sit with CAMMERON.

Cowboy hat and BRONCO JERSEY, they sit and converse on

the bleachers.

Seven-six. Let's go!  Set some picks!

Bring it on, boy.

Derek quickly moves his eyes to the court.

LAWRENCE

Boy?

Lawrence quickly pivots past Seth, dunks it, and yells as

he hangs on the rim. The crowd cheers.

Lucky piece of shit! I'm through

"monkeying" around with your ass!

Lawrence spins around and challenges Seth.

Fat, pasty, pale, pastrami eating,

cracker, motherfucker. A hundred

bucks says I make you my bitch.

Here we go! Trying to make ends meet

for that cut in welfare.

He makes a scene and passes Danny on the sideline.

Lawrence waits for Seth to take it further. Danny looks

at him, concerned.

It's eight-six, Seth.

When I want your fucking opinion I'll

ask for it, fuckhead.

Help me cover here, guys.

Derek and Cameron stare at Seth, knowing Seth will lose

and embarrass them.

You got a big fucking mouth, fat kid.

I'll take this negro down.

You can't take a shit, Seth.  Shut up.

Derek shoots a look to Cameron, comes to a decision, and

stands. He shouts for all to hear.

I got a bet.

Lawrence stares at him, sensing something harder.

I come in, same score now, first one

to eleven. Black boys against the

white boys.

Lawrence looks back to his boys in disbelief.

Name your price, Cracker.

No money...for the court. We win, you

grab your shit and find a different

place to run. Not just today...

forever. You win, and we don't come

back. No hitching, no fighting, here

in front of everyone. Six-eight, our

ball.

The action around the court gets very still.  Finally,

Lawrence nods.

You got a lot of fucking balls, man.

Bring it. Right now.

Derek pulls off his sweatshirt and gives it to Stacey.

Lawrence gets his team together.

CUT TO:

EXT. COURT - BLACK VERSUS WHITE

No more mixed assemblage of players.  One team is white,

one team is black.

A SERIES OF SMOTS

Derek blows by Lawrence for a left handed layup. Derek

hits a thirty looter. Curtis grabs a rebound and uses

his elbows to get defenders off him. Big Lawrence fouls

Derek hard and Derek stares at him. Big Lawrence makes a

twenty foot turnaround. Lawrence advances on a three on

two and dunks it. Derek pump fakes three times and uses

the glass for a deuce. Finally, Derek drives the lane

and dishes to Seth at the last minute for a bucket.

SETH and CURTIS slap Derek's hand as they get back on

transition. Derek stares at Lawrence. CAMMERON watches

intently.

It's all you, Der!

Fuckin' BYU, man!  All right!  All we

need is one now!

Lawrence and Derek lock eyes, a look exceeding

competitive boundary. A look filled with rage.

Use that fat ass and keep him out,

Seth!

Seth and the opposing player bang to get position

underneath.

I ain't losin' in my house!  Clear it

out!

The POWER FORWARD dribbles beautifully up the court --

his teammates clearing out the key. Defensively, Derek

is solid. He tries to pass Derek but Derek's defense is

stifling. Again. With another tricky move, Lawrence

inadvertently puts his LEFT ELBOW into Derek's face,

sending him quickly to the pavement. EVERYBODY STOPS.

That's fuckin' offense!

Get the fuck outta here!  He was

movin' his feet!

Derek, teeth bloodied, rises. The two have a stare down.

(threateningly)

I'll go if you want to.

You wanna piece! Bring it!

Players quickly rush to restrain the two even though the

teams hate each other.

If you wanna go...I'm ready.  Don't be

throwin' fuckin' elbows.

Fuck you!

Derek walks over to Cammeron, Danny and Stacey standing

courtside. She has a water bottle and a towel waiting

for him. He wipes his BLOODY LIP and takes a sip.

Cameron stares at Derek.

Hey.  Are you copacetic?

Derek nods and looks at Danny and Stacey.

He's gonna do that 180 spin move.

I know what he's gonna do.

You gotta call offense on that shit.

Not on point game you don't.

Fuck that, D. That chucker can't pull

that shit. It's fucking-

Not on point, honey.

He turns back to the court and walks over to Lawrence.

He stands in front of him and checks the ball in.

DEREK

Tens!

Lawrence takes the ball, passes it to the wing, and

quickly gets it back. Lawrence dribbles up top, makes a

marvelous 180 spin with the ball, and pulls up for a ten

foot jumper. Derek reads it perfectly and REJECTS IT.

Lawrence trips to the ground, Derek grabs the ball off

the fast break and DUNKS IT.

Holy shit!

Everybody courtside goes nuts. Derek walks to the

sideline, ignoring all the hand slaps being offered.

Everyone is riveted on Derek.

Get off my  fucking court!  This is my

house!

Yeah! Fuck...yeah!

A sweaty Derek pulls his little brother close. He takes

a drink of water, spits out more blood, looks at his

bitter opponent, and says nothing.

CUT TO:

EXT. STREET - BY THE COURT

Derek, Danny, Seth, Cammeron, Curtis and Stacey stand

outside the Bronco. The doors are all open and the

stereo softly plays music in the b.g. Derek dries off.

DANNY'S POV. Derek throws a shirt and tie over his

sweaty, tattooed body. Danny watches the tats disappear,

and it's almost like his brother is normal. A name tag

reads LA COPY CENTER - DEREK - ASSISTANT MANAGER.

Derek looks at JEROME and LAWRENCE from afar. Danny

notices the two men stare at his brother, ready to kill.

Derek meets their gaze.

CUT TO:

EXT. VENICE BOARDWALK - PRESENT - DANNY'S POV

Danny awakens from his daydream. The black players now

stare at him. Danny puts his board down and skates down

the boardwalk.

It was only the beginning.

Derek once told me that minorities

would take America over one day. That

white people are too afraid. Maybe he

was right.

CUT TO:

EXT. SMALL BEACH HOUSE - A PATIO

Danny skates up to the gate and kicks his board up to his

hand.  He passes two SURFBOARDS on his way towards the

back.

EXT. SIDE ENTRANCE - TWO 14-YEAR-OLDS

LIZZY, the redhaired beauty from earlier, and her blond

friend KAMMI, sturable out and laugh. They're stoned.

Hey! Danny!

(smiling)

Hey.

You're going tonight, right?

DANNY

Where?

That party. Go there.

The two young girls giggle and take off.

INT. TINY, MESSY BEDROOM - SAME

JASON and CHRIS, two 17-year-old skinheads with shaved

heads, prepare to hit the surf. Chris sings to

INSTITUTIONALIZED BY SUICIDAL TENDENCIES on the stereo

while Jason throws on a ZOG T-SHIRT, the tops of their

fullsuits hang down.

There's dick for waves.

I don't care. I just wanna get wet.

TIGHT ON DANNY. He flips through a book titled TURNER

DIARIES. On the nightstand to his left is a digital

clock that reads 4:47 p.m.

I've been trying to buy this.  You

can't find it anywhere.

The two look at Dan.

Cammeron dropped us off a copy. Dope

fucking shit, man. It's all about

reclaiming the country. I'll let you

read it when I'm done.

Fuck that. I just read Mein Kampf.

There you go.

Hey? What was this Daryl shit you

were talking about?

Henry Hastings almost kicked Daryl

Dawson's ass. He would're too if--

Little Henry the negroid?

Danny nods.

Everyday there's something over there,

man.

Why do you think we fuckin' quit?

I hear you.

Daryl Dawson's a pussy faggot.

CUT TO:

EXT. BOARDWALK - DANNY, JASON AND CMRIS - LATER

The three skateboard down the strand, Jason and Chris

with their surfboardS and suits. Chris looks at Jason's

shirt.

What's ZOG again?

Zionist somethin'.

Zionist-Occupational-Government.

Ahead an OLD ASIAN WOMAN tows a succession of SHOPPING

CARTS. As Jason passes, he smacks her with his surfboard

and knocks her to the ground. They all laugh and Danny

breaks off and heads east on Rose.

CUT TO:

INT. DUMPY APARTMENT - TIGHT ON TEARY EYES

DAVINA VINYARD, in a UCLA T-SHIRT and panties, cries on

the couch as she hugs a LONG HAIRED Derek. DORIS sobs as

she lays under a pink blanket, burdened by the flu.

Shirtless Derek grabs Doris' hand and leans over to kiss

her.

It's gonna be fine.

EXT. DUMPY APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Danny skates up to his residence and looks at a car

across the street. Two plainclothes cops from the

earlier meeting sit in their car and stare from afar.

Danny goes through the gate.

iNT. HOUSE- SAME

Danny walks in on the tearful family conclave.  He stands

there, wishing the day would just end.

Oh man--! Come on!  What are you

crying about now?

THE PHONE RINGS and Derek rushes down the hall to get it.

I got it.

Danny looks to his mother.

Are you feeling better at all?

I need a kiss.

Danny wipes away her tears, kisses her, and moves away

quickly so he won't get sick.

INT. BEDROOM - DEREK ON THE PHONE

He listens to the man on the other line.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME

There's a knock on the front door and Davina answers.

She opens the door and tries to shut it immediately.

SKINHEAD FAT SETH, from the game earlier, wears a GOOD

GUYS STEREO UNIFORM. He pushes the door back open.

Davina relents and Seth enters.

Seth pushes Danny to the side, passes Doris and yells.

Seth moves down the hall and bangs on Derek's door.

I'll be out in a minute!

Without pushing it, Seth undoes his pants and moves into

the bathroom. Danny walks down the hall.

INT. BATHROOM - THE CAN

Seth sits on the toilet. Danny pushes the door slightly

and stares at Seth's GUN on the bathroom counter. Danny

looks at him. After a few seconds--

What are you lookin' at?

I'm still trying to figure it out.

Come in here and I'll show you,

maggot.

Fuck off. When'd you start carryin'?

I'm dropping the kids off at the pool,

junior. Shut the fuckin' door!

Danny grabs his nose and turns to the door behind him.

Jesus!  Chew your food, dude!

INT. BEDROOM - DEREK

He continues into the phone receiver.

All right. Thanks.  I'll take care of

it. Yeah.

DANNY'S POV. He opens the door and sees Derek on the

phone with his back to him. Above Derek is Danny's

surfboard, hanging on ropes hooked to the ceiling.

Blue jeans, black boots and slicked back hair, Derek

holds his hand up and motions for Dan to be quiet. The

sleeves of tats covering his arms, shoulders and back

(D.O.C.) define the hatred that has engulfed his past.

(into the receiver)

Okay.  Okay. I'm what?  What channel?

He covers the receiver, turns on a ten inch TV, and flips

to the correct channel.

What is it, Danny?

You got pigs outside.

DEREK

I know.

Derek leans over the computer to check it out.

INT./EXT. BEDROOM - DEREM'S POV

He looks through the blinds and stares at the UNMARKED

CAR. Danny throws his backpack on the bed and exits.

TIGHT ON DEREK. He listens to the television.

Saturday's prison release of a former

skinhead gang leader has many

community leaders up in arms tonight.

INT. BATHROOM - TIGHT ON SETH

He points his Glock 9mm at the mirror.

Drop the t.v., nigger.

He laughs to himself and exits.

INT. HALLWAY - SETH CONTINUED

He bangs on Derek's door once more, pissed that Derek

didn't open it earlier. He heads for the living room.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUE TV ACTION

Danny, Davina, and Doris are glued to the news story on

the same station. Doris, once beautiful, is now aged and

graying. NYQUIL, PEPTO BISMOL, two PRESCRIPTION

CONTAINERS, and a spoon rest on the coffee table.

TIGHT ON THE TELEVISION. A WELL-DRESSED BLACK WOMAN

speaks angrily to the reporter covering the story.

Random black protestors nod and comment in the

background.

Maybe now whites will understand the

motives behind people like Malcolm X

and the Black Panthers.  Just put the

shoe on the other foot.

FLASH TO:

EXT. CHINO PRISON - THE VINYARDS ON NEWS FOOTAGE

Danny walks' towards Derek and they smile and hug.  Davina

and Doris soon join in.

Davina

Derek Vinyard deserved the death

penalty for what he did to that young

man! And now he walks the street as

free as you and I.

What about OJ, bitch!?

INT. VINYARD HOUSE - TIGHT ON THE TV

The news segment winds down.

They've done it to us again.

A hand reaches over to turn the channel. IT'S SETH.

Doris, in an awful state, lays back down.

TIGHT ON SETH. Tattoos cover his forearms. A BLOODY

SNAKE is halfway tucked under his rolled-up sleeves.

Nigger lovin' Jew media calling the

shots. Watch cartoons. It's the only

t.v. that's safe nowadays.

No one's safe--until we all are.

Seth looks at the woman like she's from another planet.

He laughs and goes into the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - SETH'S POV

He looks through the fridge but finds nothing. He closes

the door and looks at the family pictures on the door.

A FAMILY SHOT of Doris, Derek, Danny, Davina, and DENNIS

VINYARD in front of church. Seth appreciates Dennis in a

coat and tie. Below that, a picture of a dirty and

rugged Dennis and a young Davina, wearing her father's

FIRE HELMET. Danny with Doris.

INT. SMALL KITCHEN - SAME

He sits and comes upon Davina's revealing CROTCH. She

studies and so does he. Danny walks in the kitchen and

looks through the fridge. He pulls out a leftover piece

of steak and gnaws on it. Seth looks over at Dan

Danny laughs.

Danny takes a bite and laughs at Seth.

Well...you can think of me drinkin'

'em then when you're studying with

fuckin'... White Trash in there.

Davina scoffs and Seth looks up her shirt.

Where is the fucker, by the way!?

He's hiding from us.

Davina looks up from her homework and catches the pervert

looking at her.

You're not even human.

Seth erupts with laughter.

Is Cam playing sticks?

Of course, man.

Seth drums on the table as Danny shoves the last bite

into his mouth.

Sit down. I wanna ask you some

questions.

I got homework, Seth.

Two fucking seconds, dude!

Danny sits and looks at Seth.

Tell me your convictions.

Fuck off.

Tell me some of the shit you've

learned luckbrain or I'll pistol-whip

you.

About Adolf?

About anything.  What do you believe

in?

Danny thinks to himself and smiles.

I believe in filth and destruction and

chaos and death and greed.

What else?

I believe in my family.

Why?

"Respect your father and your mother.

Whoever curses your mother and

father... is to be put to death."

Matthew 15-4.

Good. What else?  Tell me what I want

to hear, asshole.

You mean that stuff about your mother?

Davina CACKLES in the background.

You wanna get beaten?

No.

Then tell me about Adolf and Mein.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAVINA

She puts down her homework and looks over at Seth.

Hey Seth? Cut the shit.

I'm not fuckin' talkin' to you,

Davina, shut up! Do you believe in

Adolf?

Yeah, man. I believe in Adolf.

Seth smiles at the youth and speaks intimately.

What do you hate, Danny?

I hate everyone that isn't white

Protestant.

Why? And say it with some fucking

conviction!

Because they're a burden to the

advancement of the white race.  Some

of them are all right--

None of them are all right, Danny.

They're all a bunch of fucking

freeloaders.

Remermber Canuneron. "We don't know

them, we don't want to know them,

they're the fucking enemy." What

don't you like about them?

I don't know.  I feel threatened by

them.

They feel threatened by you!

What else, Danny? And speak

intelligently you little queer faggot.

Davina's attention is rapt on her little brother.

I hate the fact that it's cool to be

black these days.

SETH

Good.

I hate this hip hop influence on white

fuckin' suburbia.

SETH

Good!

I hate Hilary Clinton and all of her

Zionist MTV pigs telling us we should

get along. Save the rhetorical

bullshit honey, it ain't gonna happen.

Seth looks at the young man.  He smiles at him with

distinct revelation.

That's the best shit I've ever heard

come out of that mouth.

TIGHT ON DAVINA. She stares at the two hate mongers.

I feel.sorry for you, Danny.

Shut up, Davina.

You shut up, you poison to fuckin'

society! Get out of our house!

Is this any way to treat a guest?

Derek hates you, Seth.

How do you know who I hate, Davina?

TIGHT ON DEREM VINYARD - SILENCE.

He's a striking presence with his scruff, tight t-shirt

and tats hanging down his arm. A black jacket wraps

around his waist.

What do you mean?

Seth stands and smiles.

Hey! How are you, man? Fuckin' A.

Long time no see. Look at that hair.

Seth moves to hug his old friend but Derek offers a

reluctant hand instead.

Gimme just one second, okay?

Seth nods as Derek stares at Danny.

Did you do a book report on Mein Kampf?

What's it to you?

What's it to me?

I mean...how'd you find out?

None of your fucking business how I

found out.

I thought it was a great idea.

That figures.  You're more stupid than

he is.

It's nice to see you too, man.

Why'd you do it, Dan?  Because of

Seth.

No.

Cammeron?

I did it cause I felt like it.

Oh, you do everything you feel like?

I feel like smacking you in the

fucking head. Would you mind if I did

a report on that?

Uhhh...yeah.

Get a clue, you dumbshit. Hey! Look

at me! Don't be a dickhead. Sweeney

cares about you.

Sweeney does?  Since when?

Was that him on the phone?

Yep. So wise up.  You hear me?

Sweeney's a fuckin' nigger on a power

trip, Vinyard. That's what he was

like when we were there and that's how

he is now. It'll never change either.

A nigger is a nigger.

Derek stares at Seth, ready to beat the fuck out of him.

Suddenly, Doris starts in with a COUGHING ATTACK. Derek

quickly fills a glass of water and goes in there.

INT. LIVING ROOM - THE PINK BLANKET

She coughs incessantly. Derek sits down beside her,

hands her the water, and caresses her head. The others

stare at her in the background.

Just put me out of my mercy.

You'll be okay. You want me to pick

you up any more medicine?

Together they look at all the bottles and laugh.  Derek

checks out the couch.

Jesus. I can't believe I ever let it

get this bad.

It's not that uncomfortable.

Are you gonna to live or what, Mom?

I need a cigarette.

Doris coughs once again and spits green into her napkin.

SETH

(astonished)

Jesus, Mrs. Vinyard.  I think a lung

just came up.

Everybody laughs -- including Doris.  Derek tenderly puts

his hand on his mother's cheek.

I'm high as a kite.

You got any more?

Daniel?  I know you got homework.

I'm goin' in a second.  Relax.

Hey. I'm gonna re-wipe and we're out

of here.

Seth laughs as he walks down the hall.

You're a pig.

I don't like him in this house.

I knew.

He ' s a fuckin ' loser, Nazi scumbag.

No he's not.

Danny looks at Derek and smiles.

He pats his brother on the shoulder and walks off.

Not at Cammeron's you won't see me.

Come on, Der! It's gonna be fuckin'--

Danny walks off, frustrated. He crosses Seth's path,

gets shoved into the wall, and reacts like it's an

everyday occurrence. Seth moves out the side window and

climbs out.

Derek nods, looks at his mother and kisses her on the

forehead.

I'll see ya.

Okay. Be careful.

DEREK

I will.

Derek follows Seth out the SIDE WINDOW and goes down the

alley.

INT. APARTMENT - TIGHT ON DORIS

She thinks to herself and closes her eyes.

EXT. SIDE STREET - SETH'S TRUCK

Derek looks at the oblivious cops and drops into the

passenger's seat. Seth starts the engine and drives

away. As the truck disappears, we pick up on a WHITE

SOUPED UP JEEP CHEROKEE turning the corner. Tinted

windows, it cruises past the apartment complex.

INT. DANNY'S BEDROOM - A DESK

CUT TO:

Danny's attention is everywhere except on his homework.

He walks back out of his bedroom.

INT. HALLWAY/LIVING ROOM - DANNY'S POV

He watches Davina complete her homework on the couch.

Doris, on the sofa opposite, tries to sleep.

Hey what?

Come here.

DAVINA

What!?

Come here for a second!

The scholar sets her homework aside and impatiently

follows him down the hall.

INT. BEDROOM - TWO SINGLE BEDS

She sits on the edge of DANNY'S bed.  Danny hands her his

assignment instructions.

I got shit to do, Dan.

Just read it.

She sighs and begins to read it out loud.

"American History X? Take home paper

as assigned by Principal Robert

Sweeney?"

Why is he giving you homework? What

happened to Murray?

Asshole turned me in.

DAVINA

Why?

Just read.

"Describe in detail your opinion of

-the historical event that took place

in the early morning of October 4th,

1993." What's that?

The night Derek wasted those guys.

Davina takes a moment.

Sweeney gave you this?

DANNY

Yep.

"Before and after...how has this event

helped or hurt your present

perspective concerning life in

contemporary America. Use the

standard five paragraph format, blab

blab blah--this'll be good for you..

Nooo...it'll be good for you.

She stares at him for a good three seconds.

Eat me, Dan.

Come on! Dick Nixon's playin' at

Cammeron's tonight. You owe me.

I'm not doing your homework for you!

I gotta spreadsheet due!

Goddammit!

Davina walks to the door and looks back to her brother.

What's the matter with you? You wanna

be a fuckin' loser your whole life?

Not receiving a response, she walks out the door.

Asshole Sweeney.

He slowly begins to strike the computer keys. The screen

reads "People look at me and they see my brother. That's

the way things have gone since the murder of our father,"

TIGHT ON DANNY.  The frustated kid sits and thinks to himself.

himself.

QUICK CUT TO:

EXT. ESTABLISHING SHOT - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

THE BROAD EXPANSE OF AN EMPTY, DIMLY LIT PARKING LOT. In

the distant corner we see a few parked cars and a group

of skins gathering.

It was lunacy after he left us. All

the time. Derek believed in

Cammeron...he was angry...that

combination gave them bodies. White

punks...sick of gettin' their asses

kicked by black and mexican gangs at

school.

TIGHT ON DANNY LEANING AGAINST AN ADJACENT CAR.

Seven skins, including Seth and Curtis, smoke and wait.

DANNY'S POV. Danny looks to his left and sees Derek with

Cammeron, who sits in the driver's seat of the BRONCO.

Stacey leans in from the backseat.

I hope you kill that fucker.

Derek looks back at her and straight to Cameron.

He might have a gun.

Are you going in or not?

You know I got the cops on me. If I

come up on one of those cameras I'm a

dead man.

Derek stares at the older man, who appears nervous.

Somebody needs to drive, Derek.

All right. You can turn it off now.

You're right on his tail, right?

I hate that fucking Korean.  I hope

you smash his face in.

Just be ready, okay?

She nods and Derek gets out. The group is silent.

Come on. Let's pull it together.

Hey! We're not playing fuckin' games

here. Let's go.

The group snaps to attention behind him as Seth toys with

the camera. CURTIS from earlier takes a hit off a joint

and makes Derek wait for him. Derek walks over to the

crazy man, takes the joint, and throws it onto the

ground.

What the fuck, Curtis? You a fuckin'

nigger now? Want some crack?

CURTIS

No.

Pull your fucking stupid head out of

your ass then.

Okay. Jesus.

We're here tonight cause we got

immigration problems spiralling out of

control. We got Asians up the ass...

taking over our land with their

fucking Yen. Mexicans...flocking into

this place like some giant fucking

Pinata was shattered.

The group busts up. Cammeron watches Derek and smiles.

Don't laugh. It's tragic. On the

Statue of Liberty it says "Give me

your tired, your hungry, your poor,

your huddled masses...yearning to be

free." It does not say give me your

shiftless, your greedy, your indolent,

your criminals, looking for a free

ticket.

The group agrees.

We're here tonight to show the

government how we feel about

minorities taking over our country.

The treat us like criminals while they

reward them with jobs and fucking

welfare checks. And it's only getting

worse.

(nodding)

Fuck yeah it is.

Are you ready to do something about

it?

ET AL

Yeah.

Okay then.

AND THEY'RE MOVING.  In formation.  Fast.  Directly at

us.    Angry.

As the camera swings into line, TRACKING WITH THEM, Derek

reaches into his back pocket and pulls out a STOCKING

MASK. He pulls it down over his face.

The foot soldiers follow him in unison.

Remember. No names. Danny?  Stay

right on my fucking ass, man.

And now they're getting ahead of us. As the CAMERA

SWINGS behind them, we see their destination.

EXT. LIGHTED GROCERY STORE - SAME

They storm the front entrance. The few people who are in

there scream and scramble for cover. Derek grabs a

Mexican boxboy and throws him to the ground. Seth

catches up to another and gets him on the ground.

Wheto's your fucking green card,

asshole?

Seth kicks the young man in the face with a blatant shot

and continues. DEREK leaves a terrified white woman

alone like she's not even there and pushes over an

adjacent shelf, knocking over another worker with CANS OF

BEANS.

(referring to the border)

Can't hide from me, motherfucker!

He kicks the man and looks around the market for more.

Danny watches in awe. Curtis breaks a giant jelly jar

over a head. Another skin throws a BLACK CHECKER into a

shelf of POTATO CHIPS.

DEREK'S POV. He looks up at one of the aisle mirrors.

INT. BACK STOCK AREA - THE 55-YEAR-OLD KOREAN OWNER

He rushes out with a pistol. He takes aim on Curtis and--

FROM OUT OF NOWHERE, DEREK TAKES A MOP TO THE OWNER'S

HEAD AND PROCEEDS TO KICK HIM. Danny looks at Derek like

he's Superman.

Derek looks to his watch and straightens up.

Let's go! We're outta here!  Move !

From just inside the door we see skins get in their last

blows and pour out the aisles and pass us through the

doors. TIRES SCREECH. THE CAMERA HOLDS ON THE WRECKAGE

OF THE MARKET AND THE MOTIONLESS BODIES ON THE FLOOR;

INT. BRONCO - TIGHT ON DANNY

He takes off his stocking mask and stares at his stone-

faced brother.

And before Derek could even blink...he

had a crazed army behind him.

CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM - PRESENT - THE COMPUTER

Danny sparks up a cigarette and types on the screen.

Willing to follow his word like it was

the word of God.

CUT TO:

EXT. VENICE BEACH HOUSE - A RAINY NIGHT - FLASHBACK

As the rain falls, we see the Vinyards sitting at the

table. Stacey and Murray Rosenberg, Doris' then

boyfriend who we met earlier, round out the clan. Stacey

sits close to Derek.

And then came October 4th, 1993.

INT. BEACH HOUSE - THE DINING ROOM

Doris looks wonderful while Murray, mustache and beard,

shakes his head at Derek as he chatters away.

Things were fine on the homefront. My

Mom had a good job but a below average

boyfriend. We had a four-bedroom

house that Dad left us with. Everyone

was happy.

TIGHT ON DEREK. Shaved head, rolled-up sleeves, tattoos,

loosened tie, LA COPY CENTER name tag from earlier. His

charisma draws their attention as he rambles over the

crackling rainfall.

Everyone but Derek.

Fuck you, Murray. White men don't

cruise the streets of LA killing each

other.

No.  You guys make bombs.

Derek stares at the man, eyes filled with homicide.

You're so fucking lame. A couple of

cranks in cabins in Montana is not

statistically significant.

White Americans don't take PCP and

drink and drive a hundred and twenty

fuckin' miles an hour! We pull over

and trust the law.

You're kidding, right?

Don't you know, Murray? White people

never break the law. We're perfect

little angels.

That's not what I said, Davina.

Three different times Rodney King

comes at those officers with the

intent to hurt them. To hurt them!

Three times! But since we see it on

some fucking tampered videotape...the

bleeding heart media makes you believe

that he only comes at them once. All

we see is Powell, Koon and Wind

hittin' him and--

Briseno kickin' him in the back of the

fuckin' skull with his boot. Still,

the dumbfuck's tryin' to get up and

kick their asses! That's how stupid

that motherfucker is. Those cops used

textbook-solid tactics and if Dad were

still here he'd say the same damn

thing.

That doesn't make it right.

Yes it does. Yes it does. They're

cops! They are taught to use that

stick and they did.

Excessively.

No. Appropriately. Appropriately!

Cops have been granted a certain

amount of authority by society and

white people, unfortunately, are the

only ones who acknowledge it. I

acknowledge a cop's authority.

Davina starts to laugh.

Look who's talking about respecting

the law? Mr. K.K.K. here.

That's two errors in one sentence,

Davina, so take a fucking course in

semantics. First error--I didn't say

I respect the law. I said I respect a

cop's authority. Second error...I'm

not a member of the fuckin' low rent,

disorganized, redneck Ku Klux Klan..

Pull your head outta your ass and look

at who you're dealing with.

Don't speak to her that way, Derek.

Murray, stay out of it. You're not a

member of this family and you never

will be.

What the hell does that have to do

with anything?

You know...sometimes it's hard to

believe I gave birth to you.

Give thanks to the food on the table

and then believe it, Doris.

We both put food on this table, fella.

True enough. The point is...if Dan

was walking across the street that

night and Rodney King plowed into him--

Can we forget about Rodney King for

chrissake?!

--while hopped up on Chivas and

P.C.P...you'd consider the force those

cops used to be justified!

He didn't hit anybody!

If he did though! If that shithead

killed Dan...you would have believed

the beating to be justified and so

would everybody else. But since he

didn't hit anyone...it's "Hands Across

America" for the son of a bitch.

Derek takes a bite of food.

We are still so hung up in this notion

that we have an obligation to help the

struggling black man and all you

contribute to it! Lincoln freed the

slaves a hundred and thirty years ago!

Get off your fucking asses!

I'm with you, honey. All the way.

It's one...giant...ploy.

Here we go.

I mean...nobody likes Chief whatever

his name is, right?

DAVINA

Gates.

Yeah. So here comes this filthy piece

of garbage in his Hyundai. He pulls

over in front of a perfectly lighted

area where a video camera is sitting

there...fucking waiting for him, man.

What happens next? Chief Gates is

dust. It's total--

Davina drops her silverware on the plate with a clatter

and looks at her mother. Everyone stares at Davina.

May I be excused please?

Don't interrupt, Davina.

I didn't interrupt shit.

The hell you didn't. I was listening

to Stacey and then I heard you.

That's called interrupting. Wait 'til

she's finished and you can be excused.

Who the hell do you think you are?

Derek jumps up from the table and grabs her by the back

of the hair.  The table JOLTS and plates tumble to zhe

floor.

You don't know when to shut up.

Dammit Derek!

What are you trying to prove, man?!

Derek turns and laughs at Murray.

I'm trying to teach my sister some

respect, Murray.

Let go of my fucking hair!

See! See the way she speaks! Tell me

you're gonna shut up and I'll let go.

Derek!  Let go of her hair and sit

down!

I will when I hear an answer, Doris.

Are you going to shut up, Davina?

TIGHT ON DANNY. He gets up quickly and tries to pull

Derek off. Derek turns and cracks Danny in the face with

a BACKHAND, dropping him back into a cabinet. A crystal

vase with flowers crashes to the floor, just missing

Danny's head.

MURRAY

Jesus!

What are  you thinkin'?

Danny nods his head as everyone looks at Derek.

It's a real easy question, Davina. A

simple yes or no will suffice. Tell

me what I want to hear and I'll let

go.

Fuck...you.

Derek takes a piece of roast beef off her plate and

shoves it in her mouth. Me holds the whole piece inside

so she can't spit it out. Davina cries as she chokes on

the meat.

She can't breathe, Derek!

Stay back, both of you!  It's her bed,

she's gotta lie in it.

You can cry all you want, Davina. I'm

not gonna let go until you tell me

what I wanna hear! Are you going to

shut that fat fucking mouth of your's

and let my girlfriend tell her

opinion? Are you?!

DORIS grabs him from behind and he aggressively turns on

her. Derek curls his tongue behind his teeth and raises

his arm like he's actually going to smack his mother.

She grabs his arm though, forcefully.

Let go of her hair and get out.

Derek releases his grip on his sister and she spits the

roast beef onto the floor. She runs into the back

bedroom crying, choking and coughing.

I hate you, you fucking asshole!

The door slams shut in the background.  Doris, Murray,

Danny, and Stacey all stare at Derek.  Derek calmly faces

his brother.

You okay?

Danny nods.

Psycho.

IN SLO MO--Time FREEZES as Derek slowly turns his head

back to Murray. ON THE TRACK we hear a few keys being

typed and then silence. A cigarette sizzles.

CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM - DANNY THINKING - PRESENT

He takes a long drag off his cigarette and exhales. He

slowly runs his hands over his stubbly head, marveling at

the past.

BACK QUICKLY TO:

INT. DINING ROOM - TIGHT ON DEREK - FLASHBACK CONT.

Derek smiles at Murray in wonder and disbelief.

Would you care to repeat that, Murray?

I'm not sure I got all of it.

He called you a "psycho", honey.

Was that it?    Thanks Murray.

See. Here we go again with this,

Derek. Making me out to be the bad

guy again.

You callin' me a liar, RosenKike?

(to Stacey)

Hey goddammit! You talk to me with

respect or--!

Or what, Murray!? What're you gonna

do? Give her fucking detention?

Both of you get out right now.

Murray stares at Derek with pity.  Doris becomes

emotional.

Do you think you're the only one who's

affected around here?

Derek focuses on his mother for a moment. A captivated

Danny watches and waits as Derek turns to Murray.

Out of respect for my mother...I'm

gonna let that comment go, Murray. I

won't bash your face in. But let me

tell you somethin'...man to fuckin'

mouse here. Normally in a situation

like this I'd take my steel-tips to

your fucking Jewish temple. That goes

for anyone making comments about me,

my family, Stacey, whomever. You know

and I know that I could crush that

puny fuckin' skull of yours in a

second. So it's beyond me why you

would say something like that without

being able to back it up? What's

worse, you sack of shit, is you

calling the woman I love a liar.

I never said she was a liar.

Weasel like that again Murray...you

fuckin' ponytail, pussy, bagel eating,

teacher, faggot...and I'll cut your

shylock nose off. Make no mistake.

Murray silently walks out of the house. Derek claps and

sings the Jewish celebration song "Hava Naghila." Stacey

joins in and the two laugh. Doris goes after Murray.

Murray Rosenberg...International Jew.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Murray goes to his car and Doris follows.  Danny watches

from the door.

He's a stupid kid, Murray!  I'm sorry!

He's not a kid, Doris. We were kids.

We didn't call people kikes.

It's just gonna take some time with

him. What can I do?

You don't know your children, Doris!

You have no clue about the world they

live in. Your son is a terrorist.

He's not a terrorist, Murray.  Jesus!

He's a member of the Disciples of

Christ. You remember that grocery

store incident?!

DORIS

Murray?

My sister and her two kids got

evacuated from her Temple in Woodland

Hills!

Murray! Please! Derek would never

have anything to do with bombs, okay?!

You don't know him like I do.

Murray gets inside and goes down the street.

INT. HOUSE - SAME

DANNY'S POV -- He watches Doris stand alone, her face in

her hands, crying.

BEHIND Dan a humiliated Davina storms towards Derek, now

wielding a BASEBALL BAT.

DANNY

Davina?

Derek hears Dan and looks out of the corner of his eye.

He spots her at the last moment.

Take this, you fucking dick!

Derek pops up quickly, disarms her, and pulls her close.

Davina!  It's okay!  Calm down.

Please.

Fuck you! Let go!

I'm sorry, Davina. Come on.

Let go of me!

Come on, Davina.  I'm sorry. I lost

control. Please.  I screwed up.

Derek holds tight until the crying girl settles down.

He's gripped as desperately by remorse as he was moments

before by rage. He kisses and repeats his apology over

and over. Finally, she succumbs and puts her arms around

him. Derek looks to Danny.

You guys are my life and I'd do

anything for you. You do know that?

I don't believe you anymore.

I swear to God I would, Davina.

Please.

I believe you, Der.

Derek smiles at his little brother, lovingly.

Davina? Please forgive me.  Please.

I'm sorry.

That fuckin' sucked, Derek.

I know it did. And I'm sorry.

I just really hate that guy.

You couldn't tell.

A RAINSOAKED DORIS walks through the front door.

Find an apartment because I want you

out of here.

Morn, I'm sorry but that guy's--

I don't wanna hear it anymore!  I want

you out!

He can move in with me.

When?

Tomorrow.

Good.

She walks past Derek and into the back bedroom.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. BEDROOM - TIGHT ON DANNY'S EYES - PRESENT

He rises from the computer and PEEKS out the blinds. The

two cops supposedly watching Derek are now eating in the

car. One of them looks up. Danny flips the blinds down.

From the other room, he hears Doris break into another

coughing fit.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DANNY

He sits beside her and hands her a glass of water.

DANNY

Here.

Thank you, honey.

She coughs, recovers, and sips. Danny walks away.

Hey. Come here.  Sit with me.

I've got this thing to do.

You can sit down for two seconds.

He looks at her and sits beside her.

Don't breathe on me.

DORIS

I won't.

They share a smile.

It's cold in here, no wonder your

sick.

She stares and smiles at him for a few moments.

DANNY

What?

What? I'm not allowed to look at you

anymore?

He smothers her face with his hand, jokingly.

No. You're not.

Daniel Patrick! Stop it! Are you

ever gonna let that beautiful hair

grow back?

Nope. Never.

I bet you will.

He smiles and locks eyes with his mother for several

moments. He finally rises and walks back to his room.

Get some sleep.

If you need me to proof anything for

you I will.

I'll be all right.

Wake up early if you get tired.

Doris watches him disappear down the hall, distant

thoughts creeping back slowly.

INT. BEDROOM CLOSET - DANNY

He grabs a flannel and throws it on. He sees a cigar box

that rests on the right shelf. He grabs it and looks

inside. The rolled-up LA TIMES clipping reads "Prominent

Skinhead Charged with Murder." The accompanying picture

of Derek is near evil.

TIGHT ON HIS EYES.  Danny stares at the clipping.  ON THE

TRACK--GUNSHOTS.

MATCH CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM WINDOW - THE EYES - FLASHBACK

He watches Derek fire his gun at the TRANS AM as it

blazes down the street. He walks over to the wounded man

on the lawn and points his weapon.

Get on the floor, Danny!  Jesus!

Danny looks down at her and hurries out of his room.

EXT. HOUSE - TIGHT ON DEREK

He hovers over big Lawrence. Gun pointed steadily, he

kicks him in the stomach over and over -- tongue pressed

against teeth.  Hot air flows from Derek's breath and

into the cold.

Danny watches his brother from the front porch.

Fuck that. The cops will let him

walk.

Derek grabs Lawrence and drags him to the CURB.

Ever shoot at firemen, you fuck?

Open your mouth and put it on the

corner of the curb. I'm gonna teach

you a little lesson.

Derek!?

Get in the fucking house, Dan!

Danny doesn't move.

Come on, man. Call an ambulance.

My dad gave me that truck,

motherfucker. Couldn't leave well

enough alone. Put your mouth on the

corner of the fucking curb!

Derek cocks his piece and Lawrence complies--his teeth

now scraping concrete. SIRENS sound from afar. Danny

walks out into the middle of the street to check it out.

DANNY

The cops are comin' Der'

Lawrence mumbles something unintelligible from his

outstretched mouth.

What the fuck did you say?  You just

threaten me? Hunh? Hunh? Hunh?

(anticipating)

No!

Derek STOMPS his foot on the back of LAWRENCE'S head -

completely tearing his jaw in half on the curb's corner.

Holy fucking shit!  Derek!    What the

hell was that for?!  Jesus!

The two lock eyes. Derek does not flinch. Helicopter

lights shine on the house. COP CARS SCREECH TO A HALT.

DANNY'S POV. Two cops take cover behind their door, draw

their guns, and shout instructions. Derek puts the gun

down, puts his arms behind his head, and drops to his

knees. His eyes are remorseless.

Joseph Conrad once wrote that "murder

is always with us. It's almost an

institution." That couldn't rang more

true than with me.

CUT TO:

EXT. WET STREET - THE CRIME SCENE - LATER

FIVE PATROL CARS, a FIRE TRUCK, TWO AMBULANCES, and a

throng of terrified NEIGHBORS strangle the front of the

house. Clothed and handcuffed, Derek is escorted from

the house by two uniformed cops and RASMUSSEN.

Bobby Lawrence died of massive head

trauma early that morning.

Derek marches past the bodies -- which are being tended

to thoroughly.

Six months after that...Derek was

convicted and sentenced to seven years

for voluntary manslaughter...to be

served at the California State

Penitentiary in Chino.

Rasmussen forces Derek's head down and he gets in the

car. He stares at his brother and sister as police

lights flash on him. Then to Stacey. Finally, to a

lifeless Doris. They lock eyes as the patrol car takes

off down the street.

Prosecutors wanted murder one for my

brother's torture method...but there

wasn't enough "premeditated" evidence.

CUT TO:

OMIT

INT. BEDROOM - DANNY'S EYES

They clearly focus on the computer. HIGHLIGHTED is the

sentence "There might have been if I testified." Only

when he hits the DELETE KEY does it disappear. He

continues typing.

Danny's interrupted by a LOUD KNOCK on the front door.

INT. FRONT HALL - DANNY'S POV

He looks through the PEEPHOLE and sees it's CHRIS AND

JASON. He sighs in relief and opens the door.

We're here, dude.

Drop your dick and grab your stick.

I told you I can't tonight.

Danny?

It's okay, Mom.

The two punks laugh as Danny pushes them and their boards

back to his bedroom.  He shuts his bedroom door.

INT. BEDROOM - THE THREESOME

Danny looks at the two.

If I don't finish this thing I'm dead.

Just tell 'em you'll do it tomorrow.

You can't miss the party.

Fire pie Lizzy called and told us to

grab your ass.

She did?

You gotta hit that shit.  It's the

only fun thing that's legal anymore.

The PHONE RINGS and Danny grabs it.

Hello?

INT.  DARK OFFICE - TIGHT ON SWEENEY

The only illumination shines through the window from the

street.  Holding his briefcase, he stands over his desk

phone, all packed up and almost out the door.

Dan?

Yeah?

Dr.  Sweeney.

INTERCUT THE CONVERSATION

What's going on?

Nothing here. Is everything all right

over there?

Everything's fine.

How's it comin'?

I'm doing it right now.

Who is it, dude?

It's Sweeney.

Who?! Why is he calling here!?  Fuck

you, Sweeney! Asshole!

(grabbing the receiver)

Get a fucking job, you reggie!

Danny grabs the receiver back and yells at his friends.

You fuckers are going to get me

booted!

Dr. Sweeney? I'm sorry, man.

Just make sure it's on my desk

tomorrow, Danny.

It'll be there, alright!?

It better be.

Sweeney hangs up abruptly. Danny slams the phone on the

hook, gives it TME FINGER, and looks at his friends.

Let's go.

CUT TO:

EXT. CAMMERON'S HOUSE PARTY - NIGHT

A TRUCK sits across the street.

INT. TRUCK - DEREK AND SETH

They sit in the car as a band JAMS from Cam's house.

Shiftless Seth throws on a black CRO-MAG t-shirt and

tosses his work shirt in the back. He wolfs down a

burger as Derek rolls his foot on a basketball on the

floor.

You're an idiot if you ask me.

I'm not asking you.

What if he writes something stupid and

that nigger turns you in? Jesus. He

didn't testify, Der. They can use

that shit and re-try you.

Derek takes a long stare at Seth, who devourshis burger.

Sweeney's not gonna do anything, Seth.

He helped get me released.

Seth is a pathetic vision to Derek.  Derek stares at him

for several moments.

I'm out, Seth.

Seth wipes his mouth and casually meets eyes with Derek.

I'm only going to tell you this once

so pay attention. I'm done, Seth. I

don't want you to come near me...near

Dan...I want you to leave my family

alone.

Seth stares and laughs at Derek.

You're serious.

I'm dead fucking serious. No more

phone calls, no more visits, no more

nothing.

Seth doesn't know what to say.

We don't exist as far as you're

concerned, Seth.

I can't believe I'm hearing this shit

come out of your mouth.

Believe it, Seth. Believe it. I

spent over three years away from my

family. My family, Seth. For what?

For your country, fuckhole, that's

what. I'd do a hundred years before I

felt like that.

Seth gets out, slams the door, and walks to the party.

Derek stares out the window and sighs.

EXT. STREET - DEREK'S POV

He watches the house. Suddenly, Danny, Chris and Jason

skate up to the residence and follow Seth inside.

What the--? Shit.

INT. CAMMERON'S HOUSE - THE FRONT DOOR

CUT TO:

DICK NIXON plays a punk version of WHITE CHRISTMAS as

skins slam dance.

EXT. CAMMERON'S BACK PATIO - A SKINHEAD

His face is tattooed with crow's feet and prison ink.

CASSANDRA, a frail, older, English woman with green hair

and multiple piercings, approaches JASON at the keg.

You're full of shit!

If he ain't here, he's comin'.

INT. HOUSE - MORE SLAMMING

Chris, Danny and Jason pound beer and huck DARTS at a

picture of O.J. SIMPSON. Seth violently slams past the

kids. Derek walks in.

Yo!  What's up, Fat Seth!?

Seth throws Chris against the wall.

I'm not fat, cockwart!  I'm husky!

Okay! I'm sorry, bro!

Take it easy, dude!

Seth then grabs Danny hard by the shirt.  Chris and Jason

stare at him like he's gonna hurt him.

What're you doin'?!

Your brother's a piece of shit!

Seth sees Derek enter and he releases Danny. Seth mixes

into the party and SLAM DANCES into ten other skins.

Danny follows Seth towards the keg.

DEREK'S POV. He analyzes the crowd.  Quickly, Chris

recognizes him.

Holy shit.  Father Vinyard!?

Son of a bitch.

Derek looks at the two kids.

I'm Jason and that's Chris! We're

friends with your brother!

They stick out their hands but Derek prefers to check the

scene.

You're a fuckin' god, man!

JASON

No shit!

Do me a favor.  Grab Danny and get

outta here!

The two boys look at each other and LAUGH.

We just got here, man!

You what!?

Chris looks at Derek like he's dead.

You don't have any homework?!

School doesn't exist anymore, Father.

Derek stares at him, not really knowing what to do.

I wrote you. Two letters while you

were in there! Did you get them?!

Derek ignores them and weaves his way through the crowd,

causing many an individual to double-take. Chris and

Jason look on in wonderment.

EXT. LARGE, OPEN SHED AREA - A CROWD

TIGHT ON CAMMERON ALEXANDEr. The older, white trash skin

furiously bangs his sticks on the drums to the song.

Cam's hair is still long but now he's got a swastika

between his eyebrows like CHARLES MANSON. He wears TROY

AIKMAN'S DALLAS JERSEY and a BLACK COWBOY HAT.

DEREK'S POV. He pans right to check out the crowd. A

man pisses out the window. Then to a distinct woman.

IT'S STACEY. Her head is now completely SHAVED but she's

still gorgeous as ever. Derek indulges her for a few

moments until he turns and walks away.  He bumps into a

girl and knocks her drink.

Excuse fuckin' me!

DEREK

Sorry.

She smiles at Derek as the SONG comes to a close.

CASSANDRA

Derek?

Cassandra.

Oh my God! They said you might be

here but I didn't fucking believe 'em!

CURTIS, the M-16 on the side of his head perfectly

intact, walks by Derek. He walks past Derek with his

young son on his shoulders.

I hope what I heard ain't true, man.

You better hightail it the fuck outta

here if it is.

After a moment, Derek looks away and Curtis heads off.

You gotta chop that mop, Der!

Cassandra lights a brown menthol cigarette.

Stacey's meandering around here

somewhere! Have you seen the bitch?!

Derek shakes his head.

The only person I've seen is Seth.

CASSANDRA

Oh God.  I'm sorry.

DEREK'S POV. He sees Cameron puts his arm around her

and kiss her. Cameron sticks his hand down the back of

her pants, smiles, pulls it out, and licks his finger.

Derek watches as Danny delivers a beer to Cammeron.  Ca

puts his arm around Dan and they go into the bedroom.

Stacey looks at Derek and follows them.

Are you going in there?

Derek looks down to see Lizzy and Kammi.

Can you tell Danny that Lizzy's

looking for him?

Derek can only stare at the girl's youth.

INT. LARGE BEDROOM/OFFICE - A SHRINE TO HITLER

DEREM'S PoV. He stands in the doorwell and listens.

White Power paraphernalia cover the walls. Articles,

posters, everything. The room has a bed, a couch, a

glass coffee table and a desk with a computer on it.

Organized stacks of papers, pamphlets and magazines are

strewn throughout the floor. Cameron sips a beer and

talks with Dan. Stacey listens in the background.

He won't do anything'drastic I hope.

I gotta do that paper though.

I thought you already turned that

fucker in?

My teacher cried to Sweeney, man.

have to do another one.

Cammeron laughs.

Oh man.  Fucking Sweeney.

Meanwhile, niggers and spics do their

reports on Malcolm X and fucking Fidel

Castro.

Cameron laughs again but then becomes quickly serious.

Sweeney's got an agenda, Danny. And

it's all a load of crap. You hear me?

He's all about brainwashing. Don't

get fucking fooled by it.

What the hell are you doing here, Dan?

They all look over.

Hey. I was wondering when he was

going to show his face.

Derek doesn't lift his eyes from Danny.

What did I tell you, Dan?

I had to check it out, Der.  Come on.

Derek shoots Cameron a look and tries another way.

Danny gets up and walks out. Cam looks to Stacey.

Derek seizes his brother with the eyes as he exits.  Then

Stacey.

Welcome back.

He just closes the door on her.  Cammeron looks for his

cigarettes.

You made it, man. When I heard they

threw you in General Population I

thought it was curtains.

It wasn't too bad.

So what's all this self-righteous,

born-again shit I'm hearing then?

Derek doesn't blink.  Cameron smiles and points to a

chair.

Have a seat, Derek.  Relax.

TIGHT ON CAMMERON. He sparks up a cigi to break Derek's

uncomfortable stare.

How was it in there with all those

fuckin' monkeys, man?  You're lucky

they didn't kill you.

I agree.

Who runs the place?  The monkeys or

the wetbacks?

The Mexicans.

It's a fuckin' vacation for them in

there, hunh?

They were really organized. I'll tell

ya...it was impressive. They--

INT. HOUSE BATHROOM - DANNY AND LIZZY

CUT TO:

The two make out. She sits on the sink and wraps her

legs around him. They stop and smile at each other.

I like you.

I like you, too.

CUT TO:

INT. CAMMERON BEDROOM - SAME

Derek and Cam converse over the coffee table.

They're fuckin' peasants, Derek.  All

of them.

So what's up, man? I'm hearing a lot

of shit about you.

Be careful with me, Cam. You don't

know what's going on with me.

Fuckin' talk to me then. We're family

here. Let's work it out whatever it

is.

I'm family, Cam? Is that why you came

to see me all the time up there?

Cameron smiles but doesn't know what to say.

I had to distance myself from you

after that.

Fuck you, Cameron. You're a fucking

chicken hawk...praying on kids.

I don't pray on fucking anyone.

No. You fucking use them.  To filter

your insanity.

Cameron smiles in disbelief.

You and Danny are like brothers to me,

Derek. Come on, man.

He's not your brother, Cameron.  All

right? He's my brother.

You hear me, Cam?

Fuck you, Derek! Fuck you! Don't

think you can threaten me with this

shit for a fuckin' second! I'm more

important to him now then you ever

were.

Derek EXPLODES. With his feet, he pushes the GLASS

COFFEE TABLE hard into Cammeron's knees. Cam screams in

agony. Derek SLUGS him in the face and Cam RETALIATES

with two of his own. They wrestle around the room and

push their way into the BATHROOM.

INT. TINY BATHROOM - DEREK AND CAM

Derek takes Cam by his long hair and SMASHES his face

into the mirror. IT SHATTERS. Derek follows with a

solid punch to the kidney.

You gonna listen?!

I'm gonna fuckin' kill you.

Derek bangs Cam's face against the mirror ONCE MORE.

Shut the fuck up! You're gonna stay

away! That's what you're gonna do!

Derek rinses Cam's bloody face off by PLUNGING it into

the toilet. He pulls him back up and they face the

mirror.

It's over.

Derek stares at him in silence. CAMMERON RETALIATES. He

forcefully backs Derek into the wall behind him. He

throws two punches at Derek -- one in the stomach and one

to the face that opens his lip. He misses on his third

and Derek gets the upper hand.

BACK TO THE MIRROR. Derek prepares to crash Cam's face

into the shards of glass one last time. The final blow.

As Cam screams, Derek launches him forward then pulls

back at the very last moment. Derek, noticing Cam's

condition, throws him into the tub.

Derek throws him a towel, grabs one for his lip, and

exits.

EXT. SHED AREA - A GROUP OF 20 NAZI'S

They SALUTE the band and chant as they tune up for

another set. The singer inquires about his DRUMMER.

Derek pushes his way through and spills a few beers cn

the way. Cassandra smokes a cigarette with a few random

skins as Derek passes by.

Hey Derek!?

DEREK

What?!

CASSANDRA

(exhaling)

Jesus, Der.  What happened?

CURTIS

(psychotically)

Where's Cammeron, man?!

I haven't seen him.

Cassandra looks at him curiously and then focuses her

attention to the bedroom.

STACEY (O/S)

Hey!

Derek turns around and faces her.

Stay away from me.

Don't point your fucking finger at me.

I'm serious, Stacey!  Stay away!

She grabs and pulls on his shirt.

What are you gonna do?! Hunh?! Hit

me?! Kick me as I roll on the fuckin'

ground screaming?!

That bullshit with Cammeron is

nothing, Derek!

I don't care.

Stacey looks deep into his eyes and can feel it.

Goddamn you, Derek! Those two niggers

deserved what they got. They deserved

to die! And just like Cameron and

Seth and a million others out

there...I'll believe that 'til the day

I fucking die. I will. Nothing will

ever change that either.

Derek breaks from her grasp and walks away.

EXT. PATIO - DEREM'E POV

He looks over to the kegs. Through the sliding glass

window, he sees Seth taking a "tap hit" off the keg. All

the guys in the b.g., INCLUDING DANNY, count and cheer.

Seth sucks the tap while skins count in the background.

Derek walks out and watches Dan pump the keg.

Forty-five! Forty-six!  Forty-

seven...!

Seth removes his mouth from the tap and belches like a

pig. All the guys laugh.

Why the fuck did you pump it?! I

coulda gone for a minute at least!

Danny looks over and meets eyes with a bloody Derek.  He

FREEZES while everyone turns to look Derek over.

Let him go, Seth.

Seth sees blood on Derek's face and shirt and takes a

moment to identify the source. He draws his 9mm Baretta

and points it at Derek's head from four feet away.

Where's Cameron?

Derek stares directly into the BARREL.

(frightened)

Seth, man!? Come on!

Seth puts the gun directly to Derek's cool head.

I'd be doing America a great fucking

favor, let me tell you.

Do it, Seth.

Seth glances at her and Derek quickly GRABS the pistol.

A shot goes off and people hit the deck. Derek wrestles

the pistol away and punches Seth in the STOMACH. Falling

to the ground in pain, Derek cracks him in the face once

more and it's over.

INT. CAM'S BATHROOM - CASSANDRA AND CURTIS

They walk in and look at Cammeron, bleeding in the tub.

Curtis pulls the METAL TOWEL HOLDER off the wall and

storms after Derek. Cassandra laughs.

You got fuckin' guests out there, Cam.

EXT. PATIO - SAME

Derek tosses the gun over the fence and looks to Danny.

Come with me right now.

He looks at his brother. He then sees Curtis and three

other skins come through the house. Derek stares at Dan

and hauls ass down the back alley.

DANNY'S POV. Curtis arrives and tends to Seth rather

than go after Derek. Confused and mildly embarrassed,

Danny bolts back into the house to get his board.

CUT TO:

EXT. VENICE BLVD. - SLEEPING HOMELESS

Danny passes them on his board as he conguers the cracks

in the street at an incredible rate. He turns the tight

corner and cuts off a turning car. The man yells.

Danny spots his brother walking twenty yards up on the

left-hand side of the street and crosses. Approaching

quickly, he skates faster and faster as Derek nears a BUS

STOP BENCH. Hearing the board, Derek turns to face the

clickity clack behind him.

DANNY LUNGES FROM HIS BOARD AND TACKLES DEREE. The two

crash into the street as a car henks from the inside

lane, barely missing the duo. Danny punches his brozher

in the face.

Fucking asshole!

Derek gets on top of his brother, spots a speeding car

heading right for him, and pulls his brother to the

sidewalk. Just in time.

What the luck are you thinking!?

What are you thinking!? Friends don't

fight friends, Der! They stick

together!

They're not friends, Dan!

What the hell are they then?!

Derek picks his brother up and sits him on a BUS STOP

BENCH.

Just sit there and relax for a second.

I don't wanna relax!  You looked like

an idiot back there!

Derek stares and sits next to him. Cars and homeless

randomly pass in the b.g. Danny looks at his brother,

transfixed in thought.

What's happened to you, Derek?

TIGHT ON DEREK. He looks into his brother's eyes.

DISSOLVE TO BLACKNESS:

INT./EXT. CHINO PRISON - ESTABLISHING SHOTS

FILING OUT OF THE CELL.

The morning drill. His roommate, an old Latino guy,

right behind. Derek's eyes cast among the inmates,

noting everyone and looking for a friendly face. He

notes a familiar tattoo, catches the guy's eye and nods.

WALKING THROUGH THE CAFETERIA.

Derek with his tray. A sea of tables divided by race. He

spots a tiny island of white guys at a distant table. He

looks at STEVIE THE LEADER, but gets a nod from the HUGE

ARYAN next to him. Derek moves to sit with them.

A WIDE SHOT OF THE YARD.

From a distance, he approaches the Aryan corner. They

casually greet each other. Derek then looks over to the

HUGE ARYAN from the cafeteria and to STEVIE MCCORMICK,

the crazy looking leader. Derek walks over and shakes

their hands.

CUT TO:

INT. PRISON LAUNDRY ROOM - MORNING

Derek quietly folds towels with a young, chattering black

man.

You got lucky, man. I was in the

kitchen for a year before making it in

here. Pots and motherfucking pans...

disgusting beef stroganoff shit...

boiling hot water...fuck that!

My name's Lamont, man.

Derek doesn't even look at LAMONT.  Stone cold, he

continues folding.

I got your back. Righteous white

Cracker with attitude. Just like the

Judge who sentenced me, man.

Lamont laughs but then becomes serious.

If your smart though you'll remember

one thing. You're the nigger in here.

Not me.

CUT TO:

EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

DEREK'S POV. He sees Stevie McCormick conferring with a

Mexican gang leader.  The Mexican hands Stevie a joint

through a handshake.

Derek turns and talks to two white guys who seem

impressed. Stevie walks up and takes a hit off his

joint.

I was just talking about you.  You're

Cammeron's boy?

Derek turns and stares at him.

His boy? No, I don't think so, man.

I'm not anybody's boy.

Well...you know what I mean.

Nooo, I don't know what you mean.

Derek and Stevie lock eyes.  Stevie sneaks a hit and

offers Derek.

Here, man. Relax and have a hit.

Derek stares at him.

Nooo...how about you getting that

fucking shit awax from me?

Stevie looks at him, ready to kill. The other two can't

believe Derek's gall. Stevie shrugs.

You got a problem, man?

Excuse me? Do I have a problem? No,

I don't have a problem. Do you have a

problem?

No. I don't.

Stevie stares at Derek and walks off. He turns back

again and he and Derek lock eyes. He walks back to his

group.

Who the fuck are you?

Derek turns back to the other two and they are already

walking away. Derek looks at the two and back to Stevie.

Stevie sits with HUGE ARYAN and says something to him.

CUT TO:

INT. PRISON LAUNDRY ROOM - EARLY MORNING

Lamont in mid-conversation.

But I won't go down on that shit.  No

way, no how.   You ever been with a

soul sister?

Derek looks over and meets his eyes.

Lamont sees this and laughs.

Just for a second.

Derek can't help but smile.

Oh man! You sick fucking bastard!

You sick pig!

And you don't!?  Shut up.

Man...you don't know shit about the

brothers. We won't go down on that

shit if the bitch was holding a gun to

our fucking head.

Derek laughs and the two continue to converse.

CUT TO:

EXT. PRISON QUAD - DAY

A group of White Aryans are gathered in the yard. Derek

plays basketball with a mixed assemblage, including

Lamont. Derek continues to look over every now and then

at Stevie and his group. Stevie suddenly smiles towards

Derek.

Not understanding what it's all about, Derek turns

'around. Standing there is HUGE ARYAN and his STOCKY

CUT TO:

INT. LAUNDRY ROOM - MORNING

A beat-up Derek quietly folds. Lamont stays quiet.  He

glances over but knows Derek isn't in the mood.

CUT TO:

EXT. CAFETERIA - AFTERNOON LUNCH

Derek looks over to the white table and they something

amongst themselves. They break into laughter. Derek

thinks about eating somewhere else, but there's nowhere

to go. He walks BACK over to the white table and looks

at STEVIE.

How's your face, man?

Everyone laughs. Derek sits and eats, his tail between

his legs.

That'll teach you.  Don't be a prick

to your superiors.

CUT TO:

EXT. NARROW PRISON CORRIDOR - LATE AFTERNOON

Stevie walks by himself and smokes a cigarette. He turns

a corner and standing there waiting for him is DEREK.

Derek stares him down.

What do you want?

I'm right here, man. You wanna have

it out with me, let's go. Just me and

you though.

Man...you are a stupid motherfucker.

You know that? When are you--?

Derek cracks him in the face and Stevie falls to the

ground.

Stupid?! You have anything else to

say, you little pussy! Hunh?!

Fuck you!

Derek kicks the man a few more times and takes off. A

few black prisoners laugh at Stevie from the PING PONG

TABLE.

CUT TO:

INT. PRISON SHOWER - MORNING

Derek puts his head down under the warm water and closes

his eyes. From out of nowhere, he is slammed out of

frame to the floor. HUGE ARYAN'and his STOCKY BUDDY from

earlier proceed to beat him. Bathers leave and after a

few moments, Stevie's boys drop their TOWELS.

Well well well. A virgin.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. SHOWER - LATER

Derek lies on the tile floor, bloody and beaten.

You ain't so tough now, are you?

The two men smile at each other, kick him and exit.

After a few seconds, LAMONT enters with the cart and

picks up dirty towels. He spots Derek laying on the

tile.

Motherfucker. What now, man?

He tends to Derek. He picks him up, throws him over his

shoulder, and carries him off.

INT. PRISON INFIRMARY - EVENING

Derek lies on a table, silent.  A Mexican DOCTOR examines

his ass.

Well, you do have some tearing down

here. Christ. Okay. I'm gonna have

to stitch you up so I'll be back.

The doctor passes Dr. Sweeney on his way out. Derek hears

Sweeney talk to the doctor and turns his head. The two

look at each other for a long moment. Sweeney sits down

next to him and puts his hand on Derek's shoulder. Derek

finally breaks down and sobs.

CUT TO:

INT. HOSPITAL - LATE NIGHT

Sweeney and Derek in mid-conversation.  A small lamp

shines off their faces.

Honor and loyalty run thick, Derek.

Not skin color. Skin is thin. I

don't get you, man.  I don't.

I got my Doctorate in Education...not

in medicine. But if you think babies

come into this world evil...you're

fucked up, Derek. You're way to smart

to believe that shit.

There's nothin' more beautiful Derek,

nothin' more pure, nothin' more

innocent...than a baby.

They killed my father, Sweeney.

Jesus Derek. Use that brain God gave

you for chrissake. What are you gonna

do? Seek revenge your whole life and

become a lifer in here. That's what

these guys are like, you wanna be like

them? Fucking little boys in prison?

Think, man. None of your guys back

home give a shit about you.

They only care about your brother.

The new blood. And he sure as hell

can't take care of himself like you

could.

Derek looks at the man with regret.

Get me outta here, Sweeney.

Sweeney looks at the young man, heavily weighing his

options. The two lock eyes.

CUT TO:

EXT. PRISON QUAD - DAY

Derek reads by himself on the cement stairs by himself.

A shadow approaches from behind.

How you doin', man?

Derek turns his head and sees LAMONT standing there.

All right.

How are you?

I'm fucking incarcerated, man. With a

bunch of faggots. How you think I'm

doin'?

Derek looks at the young man and can't help but laugh.

Derek slowly gets up and limps past Lamont.

What are you gonna do, man?

Derek looks at him for a few moments, still shaken.

I'm not going to do anything.

CUT TO:

INT. PRISON VISITING ROOM

He looks through the window at his mother. Together they

pick up the phone.

TIGHT ON DEREK. He can feel her pain more than he can

feel his own. He forces a smile.

DEREK

Hey Mom.

DORIS

Hello.

The two sit there and stare at each other for a few

moments.

Dr. Sweeney called me. He spoke with

a guy on the parole board here.

He thinks you might be getting out

soon.

Derek nods and stares at his mother, broken.

How are the others?

Davina's good. UCLA Math major.

All three of you have always been so

great in school. I wonder why all

this--

What about Dan, Mom?  How's he?

He's doing the same stuff you were

doing, Derek. Hanging out with

Cammeron, getting into trouble. It

brings back a lot of sad memories.

And I can't do anything...he won't

listen to me. He needs you.

Derek stares at his mother like it's the last thing he

wanted to hear.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. PRISON CHECK-OUT - DAY

Derek gives back his prison garb. LAMONT APPEARS.

Through the partition we see Derek say goodbye to Lamont:

and walk out to his awaiting family.

DISSOLVE BACK TO:

EXT. STREET - NIGHT - PRESENT

Danny tearfully stares at his brother, speechless.

You're my best friend, Danny. You're

my only friend. And I just want

what's best for you.

The two rub heads as DEREK puts his arm around him.

Danny squeezes back and Derek kisses him on the top of

the head.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - THE COPS

Danny skates up to the front gate and looks at them.

How the hell...?

Derek slaps the roof on the passenger side and scares the

hell out of the officers.

Son of a bitch.

Pretty shitty assignment you got.

Out of respect for your father.

Oh yeah? What the hell do you know-

about my father?

The two men sit there speechless as Derek walks over to

an awaiting Danny.

INT. VINYARD HOUSEHOLD - A SLEEPING DORIS

She snores on the couch. The clock on the wall reads

eleven as the boys ENTER. Danny goes to his room whale

Derek heads for the girls in the living room. He genzly

shakes Davina.

Hey. Wake up.

She looks at him, delirious.

DAVINA

What?

Time for bed.

INT. OPEN BEDROOM - DEREK'S POV

Dan types at the computer as Derek escorts Davina and

Doris to bed.

INT. DAVINA BEDROOM - SAME

Davina plops herself down and falls asleep instantly.

Goodnight.

Goodnight, Mom.

CUT TO:

INT. BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT

Derek stares at himself in the mirror. A million

thoughts race through his head as computer keys echo in

the b.g. He looks at all of his tattoos and SCARS.

TIGHT ON HIS UPPER BODY. He stares at the SWASTIKA on

his tit. He puts his hand over the tattoo to see what

he looks like without it. He turns on the shower and

gets inside.

129 INT. SHOWER - TIGHT ON DEREE

As he soaps himself down, the soap slips out of his hand

and sits on.the bottom of the tub. He looks at it a long

time before he bends over to pick it up. He immerses his

face into the shower faucet and thinks to himself.

INT. BEDROOM - TIGHT ON DANNY

He sits back down at the computer and looks back at his

brother as he dries off. Danny thinks to himself and

types a sentence.

There was only one person who loved

Derek more than me.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. VINYARD HOUSEHOLD - MORNING - FLASHBACK

The place is immaculate. DENNIS VINYARD, the father of

the household, eats his breakfast in his LA COUNTY

FIREFIGHTER UNIFORM. Vintage fireman material:

muscular, receding hairline, zero facial hair. Handsome.

A pretty and well-dressed Doris SINGS while she scrambles

eight eggs with mushrooms and peppers.

That was Dad. They were best friendS.

Fathers and sons are never best

friends...but they were..

YOUNGER DANNY stares at his larger-than-life father with

a cap turned backwards. Doris breaks from song and yells

to the back.

Breakfast!

Okay! Let's go, Davina! Derek!

So what's this all about, Dennis?

Dennis doesn't hear because his attention is on Danny.

YOUNGER DEREK, donning a flat-top haircut and no tattoos,

walks into the kitchen. The smiling athlete has his

backpack and blue VENICE HIGH gym bag. He drops it all

onto the ground and sits at the table.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Doris sets food in front of her two sons and they both go

to work. Young Danny eats quietly.

What about this gang stuff?

Jesus Doris...it's not that big of a

deal. All departments have to take a

precaution class on gang patrol today.

What for?

A guy was shot yesterday in

Inglewood...changin' a valve on a

hydrant. LAPD is worried that more

firefighters will become targets.

That's what this bullshit is about.

A good father this guy was though and

now he's in intensive care because of

some goddamn--! They've pretty much

declared war on LAPD and us.

Why you guys though? I can see them

but the fire department?

They think we would rather let a

building burn down over there than

fight it. So now we got two fights

goin' on at one goddamn time.

Dennis takes a bite of his eggs and explodes.

Dayins! Get in here!

I'm coming right now! Jesus!

I'll tell you one more thing. This

"affirmative blaction" shit is driving

me up the fucking wall. Firefighters

gettin' 99's on their tests while

rappers who score a goddamn 62 walk

away with the job.

Don't we have to have "affirmative

action?"

Not when a job requires ability.  No.

A lot of people say otherwise, Danny.

Including me.

A lot of people don't know shit,

either.

Doris just stares at the back of her husband's head like

she wants to smack it. He turns back and disarms her

with a look.

If I'm fightin' a brush fire...

surrounded by thousand degree

flames...who would I want watchin' my

back? A guy who scores a 99 or a guy

who scores a sixty?

You don't see half the NBA with

whites, gooks and spics.

Nooo...what you don't see are

minorities on the boards of Fortune

500 companies cause whites won't stand

for it.

Doris! I'm tired of your damn

argument! You sound like an idiot!

Sweeney actually had a pretty good

take on affirmative action the other

day.

Really? I didn't know you spoke

"African", Derek? Where'd you learn

that shit? Johannesberg?

Dennis laughs and Derek eventually smiles. Danny looks

at them, not really understanding. Doris stares down

Dennis.

Honey? Please don't speak that way.

They don't--

How am I speaking, Doris!? Hunh?!

I'm speakin' fineP

Hey. Don't let that him confuse you

over there, Derek. Look at me. This

shit he's pulling is a load of crap.

Hey. Look at me, Derek. I mean it.

If we keep givin' niggers everything,

there'll be nothing left for us.

Derek and Danny stare at their father, not knowing how to

react.

You can be a stupid son of a bitch

sometimes.

And then we have naive fools like her.

I really hate you with a passion some

times.

An upset Doris exits the room past YOUNG DAVINA.  Dennis

looks to Derek.

You know what I mean though, right?

(nodding)

Yeah.

Good morning.

She sits.

Her lips glare excessively this morning.

Well...good morning, Miss Monroe!

Look at you. You look like a star.

I like that color, Davina.

DAVINA

Thanks

You did like it.

Dennis reaches over and wipes it off with his napkin.

Yeah. Well you're lucky I'm letting

you wear that crap on your eyes. I

love you but you're too young.

That sucks, man.

It totally sucks. And we all

sympathize with you, too.

Everyone laughs but Dan, still shaken over his mother.

You got practice today?

Danny shakes his head no.

Coach's sick.

You wanna go to Der's game with me?

DANNY

Sure.

Santa Monica High tonight, right?

DEREK

Yep.

Perfect.

Ben'll whip us up a couple of double

deckers and we'll head over.

(smiling)

Okay.

Dennis smiles, reaches over with a fatherly hand, and

messes up his hair.

BACK QUICKLY TO:

INT. BEDROOM - DANNY - PRESENT

He stops typing and almost cries. He leans back in his

chair and and stares himself in the side mirror. He

feels his bald head, almost exploring.

CUT TO:

EXT. BEN'S BURGER SHOP - LATE NIGHT

A white homeless man in an ARMY JACKET sits outside

begging for change. Seth and Cameron, both beat-up,

drunk and bloody, stare at the man.

Spare change for a cheeseburger?

Get a job and buy one why don't you.

God bless you.

Fuck you.

Seth stumbles into the shop.  Cam stares at the homeless

man, psychotically.

Fifty cents is all I ask.

Vietnam, man.

I was in

Really? So you've had what? Thirty

years to get your shit together?

All I want is something to eat.

There are plenty of fuckin'

dishwashing jobs out there, Vietnam

boy. Go get yourself one.

In the background, BEN THE OWNER and Seth shake hands.

Did I do something?

You're a disgrace to the white race.

If Adolf Hitler was alive...God bless

his soul...he would have you shot.

Fuck you then. Now and forever.  Fuck

you.

Cameron knees the weaker man square in the face. The

man slopes down to his side, unconscious. As an

afterthought, Cameron kicks him several more times.

Noooo. Fuck you.

QUICKLY TO ACROSS THE STREET. Little Henry and two of

his friends watch Cammeron's brutality from their bikes.

They turn in the opposite direction and hurry off.

INT. BURGER SHOP - CAMHERON AND SETH

CUT TO:

Seth eats a burger and chili fries at the same time.

Cameron smokes across from him and watches Seth eat like

a pig. He takes a look at the homeless man outside who

still lays motionless. Cam feels his BANDAGED FACE.

I think I need to go to the hospital.

Seriously?

I don't know. I think so.

Where's Stacey?

Who gives a fuck?

Seth takes a bite and chews.

Derek's a fuckin' traitor pussy.

Well...we might be pussies too if we

got treated the way he did.

What do you mean?

Stevie McCormick called...old school

Venice bro. He's at Chino...doin'

life. He hated Derek.

Said he was a fucking blow-up doll in

there.

Fucking A.

Seth continues to eat.  Cammeron looks out the window and

hates what he sees.

Oh Christ. You gotta be kidding me?

SETH

What?

CAMMERON'S POV. A large, mature and sharp-looking BLACK

MAN helps A BEAUTIFUL BLOND out of a RED BMW. THEY KISS.

Cammeron is at a loss for words. Cam puts out his

cigarette as the couple ENTERS.

Is there anything sacred in this

country anymore? Jesus Christ. Hey.

Stop feeding your face for a second

and look behind you.

Seth turns his head and stares at the interracial couple.

He turns back to Cam and sings a verse from the famous

atevie Wonder song, EBONY AND IVORY. Cameron laughs.

The black man turns and looks at the two.

Can we help you with something? Do

you have any questions about the menu?

No questions.

I recommend either the "Big Ben

Burger" or the "Chicken Taco Special."

Ben'll replace the dark meat with the

white meat if you ask nicely.

What's your problem, pal?

I ain't your fucking pal first of all.

Secondly...I don't have problems.

People who luck with me have problems.

Come on. Let's get out of here.

Hey! What a great idea! You got a

clever little whatever it is there.

I'd listen to it if I were you.

You're not me.

And I thank God Almighty every day for

that, believe me.

Excuse me? Tyrone?

My name's not Tyrone either.

SETH

Whatever.  Why can't you stick to your

own race?

Jesus Christ! Where do you assholes

come from?!

What the luck difference does it make

where we come from, bitch? I'm from a

place called America. A place that

used to be a nice place to live before

it became fuckin' Africa-America.

You ignorant mother--

Seth quickly gets out of his chair and makes his gun

totally visible to the couple.

You got a fuckin' death wish, asshole?

Do you? Make your move now if you do.

If you don't...get the luck out of my

sight. Cause I'm real close to

shoving my piece up your girlfriend's

stinky pussy.

The black man stares at the gun sticking out of Seth's

belly. He grabs his girlfriend and walks out of the

joint. Seth sits back down and the two laugh. Cameron

looks over at Ben and raises his hands in the air.

Everything's hunky dory, Ben!  No

problemo. Only us white folk.

CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM - A DIGITAL CLOCK

It reads 2:36 a.m. Shiftless Derek lifts a sleeping

Danny off the computer keyboard. He helps him into the

bottom bunk, tucks him in, and watches him snooze.

Did you "save" it?

An asleep Danny nods. Derek slowly walks back into the

bathroom to grab his towel off the floor. He looks at

his SWASTIKA TAT in the mirror and sighs to himself. He

turns off the light and exits.

CUT TO:

INT. BURGER JOINT - SETH AND CAMMERON

Seth finishes his display of gluttony.

It wouldn't irritate me so much if the

ratio was a little more even.

What's that?

Ebony and Ivory back there! Almost

all of those orange kid relationships

are black man and white women and I'm

fucking sick of seein' it! I wouldn't

mind so much if it were more even.

Huge dicks, Cam.  That's all it is.

I used to think that too but...it's

gotta be more, man. It has to be more

than the fact they they carry a big

load. Chicks aren't that shallow, are

they? It's politically correct...

that's what it is. White

women...bein' seen with the

coloreds...it's great for their image.

Bitches today want to be known as

bein' fuckin' color blind.

They get off on it.

And you can't really blame Tyrone.

Why the fuck not?

Well...how'd you like to drag around

some fat fly girl? I wouldn't.

No shit.

Oh go girlfriend! Don't be puttin' up

wid dat, girl! Oh stop girl!

Seth and Cammeron laugh and head outside--leaving a mess

on the table.

EXT. ACROSS THE STREET - THE CHEROKEE FROM EARLIER

The white vehicle gets passed by cars left and right.

INT. CHEROKEE - HENRY'S POV

Henry sits up front with JEROME, nervous and scared.  The

three thugs in back lock and load.

Jerome grabs a baseball bat and they quietly get out.

INT. VAN - TIGHT ON LITTLE HENRY

Me bites his nails and watches the foursome sneak up on

an oblivious Seth and Cammeron.

EXT. GRAVEL PARKING LOT - HENRY'S POV

The men close in. Seth and Cam are blind to it.  Jerome

raises the bat as they close in and we--

FADE TO:

INT. BATHROOM - EARLY MORNING - BIRDS CHIRPING

Danny stares at himself in the mirror and tries to find

some stubble on his chin.

INT. BEDROOM - A SLICK DEREK

He stares into the mirror in a coat and pants.  Danny

rushes to get his things together.

I'm printing it up and we're out of

here.

Hurry up.

Derek walks out into the living room.

INT. MESSY LIVING ROOM - DORIS

She's on the couch watching cartoons. She takes a jar of

Vick's Vapor Rub and puts some on her chest. Derek walks

in the room, bends over and kisses her on the forehead.

Davina sits on the couch and writes. Derek just smiles.

Wow. What happened?

I gotta see my parole officer.

Hey Der? Do you have Excel on disk?

I've got everything on disk.

Davina smiles and walks into the back bedroom.  Doris

looks at Derek.

You look good.

Derek smiles and caresses his mother's cheek.

We're getting out of here soon.  Is

that okay with you?

I'd love it.

Do you think I should color my hair?

DEREK

Yes.

He sits beside his mother and enjoys the moment.  He

thinks to himself.

I'm glad you made it back. I wasn't

too sure I was going to see you again.

You know how I get.

Filled with regret, he nods.

You think you'll be able to forgive

me? Someday maybe?

You're my son. Of course I will.

Derek smiles and can't believe his tearful reaction.

Look at me. I'm such a pussy.

No you're not.

CUT TO:

EXT. VENICE BLVD. - A NEWSPAPER MACHINE

Derek plunks a quarter down the slot and removes a copy

of the LA TIMES. Danny continues to skate ahead of him.

Sensing danger, Derek looks back behind him. With no one

in sight, he walks into a doughnut shop.

INT. DOUGHNUT SHOP - DEREK'S POV

He takes a guarded look outside. Everything seems

normal. A bus drives by. A group of Mexican laborers,

dressed for work and smiling, walk past in the other

direction.

Inside, a black woman orders a dozen doughnuts from a

short Korean.man behind the counter. Her young daughter

grabs her leg. Danny sits down and reads Derek's paper.

What do you want?

Maple bar and a...large milk.

Derek smiles at the little girl while he waits. She

wanders from her mother's leg and over towards Derek.

You look pretty.

She laughs.

Thank you.

How do I look?

(bashfully)

Fine.

DANNY'S POV. He looks up from the paper.  He watches the

girl together with his brother.

What's your name?

BLACK GIRL

Tisha.

How old are you, Tisha?

She holds up four fingers. Derek smiles.

Come here, Tisha.

Tisha returns to her mother and they quickly exit. Derek

watches the girl as she continues to stare at him as they

make their way down the street.

Outside, a BLUE FORD screeches out front. Rasmussen and

the Young Mark Fuhrman type from earlier get out and

wait. Dr. Sweeney meets the duo and together they walk

inside.

What's goin' on?

We need to talk, Derek.

How'd you find out I was here?

We were just at your apartment.

Cammeron and Seth are in the ICU at

St. Johns, Derek. They were jumped in

front of Ben's Burgets early this

morning.

Derek thinks to himself for a few more seconds.

How bad?

They'll live.

They must have been looking for

somebody else.

Derek stares at Rasmussen and walks away.

Sweeney, who knows to walk over to him.

He eyes

TIGHT ON SWEENEY AND DEREK. The two lock eyes.

Are they coming after you?

Fuckin' A.

Sweeney sighs.

I don't know.

You might have to talk to your old

crew though.

Derek looks over and analyzes the innocence of his

brother.

I can't, Sweeney.

Try, Derek. Okay?

Derek senses the danger in his voice.

Okay?  Before it explodes.

Sweeney walks away and then turns back to Derek.

And watch your back.

Derek nods.

(back to Danny)

You showing up today?

Danny looks at Sweeney and nods his head yes.

SWEENEY

Good.

CUT TO:

EXT. VENICE HIGH - DEREK AND DANNY

They are outside the fence surrounding the field.

Students head off to morning class.

Hey. Keep your head up, alright?  I'm

going to take care of this.

DANNY

How?

I don't know. I'll figure it out

though. You gonna be okay?

DANNY

Yeah.

The two stare at each other as THE BELL RINGS.

I gotta turn that paper in.

Danny hops the fence with his backpack on. He looks back

at Derek. Cops #1 and #2 sit in their car in the b.g.

DEREK

Hey.

DANNY

What?

Come here.

Derek puts his hand over the fence. Danny walks up and

clasps it -- FINGERS INTERTWINED. Derek wants to say one

thing but something else comes out.

I'll see you at home.

Danny smiles at his brother and nods. Danny puts his ear

phones on and heads to class. Derek watches his brother

through the chain-link fence. Danny meets up with Lizzy

and they soon disappear from Derek's sight. Derek turns

and walks down the street.

You need a lift anywhere?

DEREK

Nope.

Derek stops in his tracks, walks back over to the fence,

and stares at the school.

INT. MESSY HALLWAY - DANNY AND LIZZY

Students rush past them. Danny kisses Lizzy and she

hurries off to class. He pushes on the men's room door.

INT. SCHOOL BATHROOM - SAME

Danny enters, sets his "AMERICAN HISTORY X" PAPER on top

of the sink, and takes an unearthly long piss at the

urinal. He finishes, flushes and turns.

Standing there is LITTLE HENRY. A GUN IN HIS HAND.

Jesus Christ.  What are you doing,

Henry?

What does it look like I'm doin'?

Come on, man, no.  You don't want to

do this. Come on.  Henry?

THE DOOR SMACKS OPEN and Danny moves to grab the pistol.

It discharges and a bullet rockets into Danny's chest.

He SLAMS back into the URINAL and gasps for air. The

force of the pistol knocks Henry to the ground. The two

kids who just entered bolt for help.

Danny slides to the tile, leaving a bloody trail. The

two stare at each other - EYE TO EYE. THE BLOODSTAINED

PAPER falls into the DAMP SINK. Danny inhales like glass

is raking his lungs.

Danny?

Danny's breathing slows to a choked whisper.  He blinks,

coughs, twitches. And dies.

Henry watches teary-eyed with the same altered look Derek

had after killing Lawrence. Together they FREEZE on the

cold tile floor.

CUT TO:

INT. HALL AT VENICE HIGH BATHROOM - YELLOW POLICE TAPE

Officers and detectives monitor the area. Young

students, including Lizzy and her friends, stand around

and cry. Rasmussen brings THE BLOODY PAPER over to

Sweeney. Sweeney looks at it for a moment but is

interrupted.

He won't let go. Will you talk to

him?

INT. BATHROOM - TIGHT ON DEREK AND DANNY

Derek cradles his bloody brother. Sweeney walks over,

crouches, and talks to Derek's back.

Derek? You gotta let him go, man.

They gotta get him outta here.

DEREK

I can't.

Derek begins to cry outright. He can't control himself.

He lets go of Danny's corpse and charges out into the

hall.

INT. HALLWAY - DORIS AND DAVINA

Derek embraces them. Doris grabs his face -- torn

between love and hate. Guilt-ridden, Derek tears from

them and storms down the hall with Sweeney soon in tow.

Derek! I know what you're thinkin'

right now and I want you to forget

about it!

How the luck do you know what I'm

thinkin', Sweeney!?

Cause I'm thinkin' the same damn

thing!

Drowning in rage, Derek turns back to a misty eyed

Sweeney.

They shot him in a fucking...pisshole!

And goin' after them won't bring him

back. Don't do it, Derek. Please,

man. You've come too far. The war is

over.

Derek contemplates the situation and presses his tongue

against his teeth, crackbrained. Sweeney slowly

approaches and cautiously wraps his arms around the young

man. Derek buries his tearing face in Sweeney's

shoulder.

It stops now, Sweeney.

Sweeney nods and the two lock eyes. Derek makes his way

back to Doris and Davina and together, they grieve.

We've heard it a million times, a

Bible quote become cliche: "Vengeance

is mine, sayeth the Lord."

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. SCHOOL BATHROOM - DANNY AND HENRY

A still of the two immediately after the murder. We move

in tighter and tighter until we get close on Danny.

Vengeance brought about by hate...and

fear. When it points its head in our

direction, we take notice and

everything changes. The way we choose

our friends, the way we protect our

families, the way we create enemies

out of strangers.

Welcome to America.

TIGHT ON DANNY'S EYES. They are gently pushed shut by

Henry's two small BLACK FINGERS.

THE END

<!--Ad Banner

function popupPage() {

<b>}

</b>

popupPage();

//  Ad Banner-->

