The Chinese general examines Frank's papers - passport,

visa, bank receipts - and lots of cash - then studies Frank.

The man doesn't believe it, but lets it go.

Frank shrugs. The general regards one of his men.       In

Chinese, subtitled:

The general regards the cash and paperwork again for a

moment. And, to Frank:

The man regards Frank for a long moment.       Glances back to

the cash and paperwork again. Finally -

Torrential monsoon rains. Dripping camouflage. Nate and

Frank climb down from the Huey. Frank no longer wears the

bandolier. Now a press card dangles from his neck.

Stripes on the uniform of a black colonel with Nate under a

canopy. Outside, in the distance, in the rain, Frank hangs

out with some other black servicemen.

Nate and Frank watch the colonel emerge from the tent and

cross through the rain on duck-boards to another tent to

speak with a white officer, a 2-star general.

He holds out a business envelope fat with money. Nate

hesitates, knowing Frank has just said he'll kill him if

things don't go right, then takes it.

The nurse/paramedic who stitched up his hand is in Richie's

bed making so much noise he's worried someone will call the

cops. The phone rings. And won't stop. Neither will the

nurse as Richie answers it -

Richie can hear in Sander's voice how serious it is and

manages to disentangle himself from the woman.

Richie on his police radio, which cuts in and out -

He slams the mic down.

As Richie's car turns a corner, the Stephen Crane Projects -

the most foreboding place on earth - rises up: three dark

30-floor towers planted on war-torn grounds where a long-ago

torched and abandoned patrol car sits like a monument.

He parks and moves through an agitated all-black crowd, past

an ambulance outside one of the towers, through oppressive

heat. It's riot weather.

Drugs on a coffee table. Body on the floor. Rivera,

despondent, on the couch. The male paramedics, scared.

Richie on the phone -

Dial tone: the police sergeant has hung up on him.           Richie

throws the phone. The paramedics stare at him.

The only other person who would know the answer to that is

Rivera, who just shakes his head in despair.

Richie comes out ahead of the gurney, moving quickly like

it's a matter of life and death (which it is), motioning at

the crowd to allow a path to the ambulance.

The people step back when they see the victim on the gurney:

tubes in his nostrils, IV in his arm, eyes open. Before they

can look any closer, he's put in the ambulance. As it pulls

out, siren wailing, Richie leads Rivera safely away -

They cross through an alley near the Projects and Rivera

finally breathes a sigh of relief.

The words aren't out of his mouth before Richie shoves him

up against a car.

Richie rips Rivera's jacket pockets.        Money spills out.

Richie, disgusted with him, lets go of him.         Rivera is

embarrassed, almost crying, pleading -

The German shepherd watches as Frank removes the tape from

one of the bags. He pulls it open - has almost no reaction -

except to breathe again - then opens the next, and the next.

And we see: Several brick-like packages of No. 4 heroin

wrapped in paper marked with Chinese writing, stamped with

a label: two lions on their hind legs, paws on a globe,

and, in English: DOUBLE UOGLOBE BRAND 100%.

The duffel bags are elsewhere. The only evidence of any

drugs is the small amount Frank has given a chemist - who

looks like a Harvard student - to test. It responds

instantly. The young man looks at Frank.

The chemist opens a leather travel syringe kit to shoot up,

but Frank gives him some to take home instead.

The chemist gathers his things to leave, offering a last

piece of advice -

A clapboard house set down on a piece of land that was

probably once worked by sharecroppers. An elderly woman

framed in a lit kitchen window, doing dishes.

Dark yew trees and scavenged, discarded cars and car parts

like patches of rusty snow. Crickets and bullfrogs. From a

mound of dirt, a young man hurls a baseball to another with

a catcher's mitt exactly sixty feet away. The kid's got a

major league arm.

Legend:   Greensboro, North Carolina

A glow spills out from a detached shed where a short man in

his early 30's works on a stock car.

He smiles, and it's hard to tell which is more enchanted

with the other.

A club across the river. Not nearly as nice as Small's -

much louder - but like Small's, almost all black. Richie

shares a booth with a black undercover detective.

Richie nods, Yeah, he knows that, but remains unconvinced.

Spearman looks out across the crowded dance floor.

Richie's glance finds a young black man dancing wildly with

his skinny white date.

Richie sees a young Italian with tatoos - the only other

white man in the place - dancing with a heavy black woman.

Both Jones and Abruzzo look more like criminals than cops.

Frank sits in back alone. Peers ahead through the

windshield. His face relaxes as he sees -

Ana waiting on a corner, dressed nice, handbag.         The Towncar

pulls to the curb.

Frank gets out before Doc can, and escorts Ana to the car.

He opens the door for her like a perfect gentleman, slides

in after her.

Outside the house, Doc sits in the car reading a newspaper.

Ana considers some family photographs on a mantle.

Frank shakes his head no.       It's a picture of Bumpy.

Frank has to think.     Bumpy was more than his employer.

And it's working here.     It's seductive.

FLASHCUTS -

Sudden bursts of violence - guys beat up - others shot - one

being poured with gasoline as Bumpy looks on calmly -

BACK TO FRANK'S LIVING ROOM

The same calm, benign face in the photograph.        Frank nods.

Ana smiles like she knows better. Any second now, like

every other guy she's ever met, she's sure he'll try to take

her upstairs.

Abruzzo, looking like a junkie, dirty jeans, wool cap,

approaches a dealer on the corner. The perspective shifts

to Richie, Spearman and Jones in a car, watching as Abruzzo

chats briefly with the dealer before the exchange takes

place: $10 for a blue-cellophane packet.

Richie and the others watch Jones tests the heroin.

The other detectives are exchange a glance.       None has ever

heard of anything on the street that pure.

Richie glances to a Table of Organization: Surveillance

photos haphazardly thumb-tacked to a bulletin board - known

dope men in the hierarchies of their individual crime

families - almost all of them Italian.

WOMB TO TOMB SEQUENCE:

An R & B song begins and continues over -

A poppy bulb being pierced, the white liquid oozing,

changing into filthy liquids in wooden bowls, and finally

a gray paste ...

Frank sits with the bank Vice President who wires a transfer

to:

Where Nate sits with the same Thai bank president as before

who converts the transfer to cash.

Nate slides cash across a table to a couple of Chinese

gangsters.

A tent: Nate hands more cash - the military brass's cut -

to the 2-star general from before.

An airstrip: Slicing propellers. Wounded soldiers on

stretchers, helped onto a transport plane. Nearby, four

large crates - Japanese TVs - under cargo netting. The

pilot stuffs more cash in a pouch and salutes Nate.

General Westmoreland returns a salute (archive).

The same plane on the tarmac here, taxiing. A pile of

discarded TV boxes outside a supply warehouse.

At the perimeter of the base, black servicemen transfer

heavy taped-up duffel bags from an Army Jeep to a station

wagon, hoisting those that won't fit inside onto a roof

rack. Two Lucas brothers tie them down with twine.

The station wagon heading north on a rain-slicked highway,

the canvas tarpaulin on top flapping. In the distance, the

spire of the Washington monument glows.

A black woman pushes a shopping cart containing a baby,

Pampers, and cases of milk sugar across a parking lot.

Empty milk sugar boxes. Redtop and her five table workers

- clothed now, the surgical masks dangling from their necks -

wiping down table surfaces, scales and apparatus. Tens of

thousands of blue-cellophane packets of heroin neatly cover

two of the folding tables.

August. Hot. Kids wrench open a fire hydrant and with an

empty soda can direct the water into a fountain. The water

sprays down onto the windshield of a beat-up Chevy coming

slowly through, revealing when it clears, Frank behind the

wheel. He parks. Glances at his watch.

Clock on the wall of a locker area: 3:58. Shift change.

Cops in t-shirts. Fans blowing the humid air around.

Blue and whites arriving and leaving, shirts coming off as

the cops alight.

The driver checks his watch:   3:59.   Turns his almost-empty

bus up 8th Avenue.

Air conditioner full blast. Radio announcing the time: 4

o'clock. Frank glances out the wet windshield of the Chevy

and watches 116th Street transform:

It's as if an outdoor market has just opened its stalls.

Junkies and dealers emerging from the alleys, storefronts,

tenements and side streets - from the street itself it seems

- snarling the cars and delivery trucks caught unaware.

Small blue cellophane packets - and only blue - are pulled

from pockets and change hands. In alleyways it's cooked up

and sucked into syringes, and in dank, grim, indescribably

filthy rooms, plunged into veins -

10 and 20 dollar bills changing hands - decks of cash

rubber-banded together - put into envelopes and delivered

to the Lucas brothers, to:

Piles of cash.    The brothers try counting it all, but it's

just too much.    It's actually tiring.

TIME CUT: A money-counting machine flips through the

bills, its counter flying. The brothers rubberband it all

in $100,000 decks. Jot down the numbers. Put the money

in newly-assembled file boxes. Tape them shut.

Alone in the room, Frank transfers stacks of $100's from the

file boxes into several open safety-deposit boxes.

The penthouse is now richly decorated. The R & B music

playing through a state-of-the-art stereo system. It's a

kind of office party for Frank's brothers, cousins, wives

and girlfriends, distributors like Rossi and other East

Harlem guys, Charlie Williams, couple of cops on Frank's

payroll, and the Chemical Bank Vice President.

The banker jots down a name and phone number on the back of

one of his business cards.

The banker hands him the card and moves on. Frank's trying

to have a good time, but the level of noise and revelry is

beginning to make him uncomfortable.

Sibota tries not to look as nervous as he feels.

Frank points to his nephew, Stevie, across the room.

As the scout hands his card to Frank, we whip over to where

Teddy, his driver Jimmy Racine and their girlfriends, coked

up, are laughing as a black cop, flashing his detective's

shield, pretends to frisk Jimmy.

The cop sucks up a line before pretending to cuff Jimmy.

Everybody laughs.    Teddy peels $100's from a money clip.

The cop pretends to arrest them all, but what he doesn't

pretend is the hand he puts on Jimmy's girlfriend's breast

as he frisks her.

It was quick but Jimmy saw it, even though his girlfriend

didn't react. The cop, oblivious, is cuffing Teddy now.

The room explodes with a boom and the detective crumples to

the floor, clutching at his leg, blood running through his

fingers onto the carpet. Frank stares.

Suddenly, Frank grabs Jimmy and throws him against the wall.

As Ana tries to clean the blood stain on the rug with salt

and soda water, Frank sits with his five brothers in the

debris-strewn aftermath of the party. Silence before:

Frank looks at Teddy in his tinted Jackie Fox-like goggle

glasses - like he's going to straighten anybody out.

Frank pulls them from Teddy's face and crushes them.

Richie sifts through the morning mail at his desk. Stops

on an envelope from the New Jersey Bar Association. As he

works up the nerve to open it, Spearman, Jones and Abruzzo

organize the Italian wise guys' photos on the T.O.

Richie comes over, studies the Table of Organization a

moment, then begins untacking the photos from the top down -

Richie tacks his exam results onto the T.O.       He passed.

Richie and the Amigos observe a buy from a parked car, the

blue cellophane changing hands. Ignoring the buyer as he

walks away, they keep watching the seller.

The seller is observed coming out of a mechanics garage.

Richie ignores him as he walks away, watching instead the

garage. Eventually, a mechanic wiping his hands on a rag

steps out, and Richie raises a camera. The image of the

mechanic - a supplier - freezes -

A slightly-blurred photo of the mechanic goes up on a new,

almost bare Table of Organization.

Atop of a telephone pole, Abruzzo, dripping with lineman

equipment, works to attach a `slave' to the lines -

Bare room. Richie, Jones and Spearman eating take-out food

as tape recorder reels turn.

The detectives laugh.

Toback has Richie sign a voucher for $20,000 cash.

Jones tapes a tape recorder the size of a pack of cigarettes

to Richie's bare chest.

Undercover in a wise guy's cashmere sweater and slacks,

Richie watches the mechanic count the $10,000 he's given

him.

Richie rather reluctantly hands over the rest of the 20K.

Spearman watches the pickup truck driven by the mechanic

change lanes up ahead - heading for the George Washington

Bridge - and glances over concerned to Richie, who is

changing the cashmere sweater for an old t-shirt.

As Spearman follows the truck, the George Washington Bridge,

linking Jersey to Manhattan, looms in the windshield ...

The pickup pulls to the curb outside a Pleasant Avenue

grocery store. As the guy enters the place, Spearman's car

stops long enough for Richie to climb out, and continues on.

Richie crosses the street, tries to see who the guy is

talking to inside, but he's just buying a cup of coffee to

go. Spearman's car turns the corner to circle around the

block. As soon as it's gone, the man emerges from the

restaurant with the coffee and walks straight at Richie who

has to double back quickly not to be seen

Richie sees a delivery truck double-parked, guys unloading

crates. Hears a horn and knows it's must be Spearman stuck

on the side street. The mechanic starts his truck.

Desperate not to lose him (and his money), Richie hurries

over to a taxi stopped at a light, flashes his badge.

The driver realizes the man outside his taxi is crazy and

tries to get his window rolled up. Reaching in, Richie gets

his arm stuck, pulls at the lock, yanks the door open, drags

the driver out, breaking the cabbie's arm, and jumps in.

He swings the cab into opposing lanes to get around traffic,

screeches around the corner, glimpses the truck far up ahead

- guns the engine, flies through a red light, glances at his

mirror at the cars that just missed him almost colliding -

The truck turns up ahead, and Richie barrels through another

red light, turns the corner and keeps the truck, a couple

car-lengths ahead - in sight.

Richie curbs the cab as the guy goes into a dingy pizza

parlor. Richie climbs out, crosses the street. Coming past

the place, he tries to look inside without breaking stride.

From around a corner, striding toward him, come four men

looking like Gestapo thugs in leather coats, manicured hair -

the Princes of the City. Richie detours into an alley as

they enter the restaurant.

Richie peers in at the restaurant kitchen through a grimy

basement window. Watches Trupo and his SIU detectives burst

in, guns drawn. They rough everybody up, get some down on

the floor. One detective gathers the money and stuffs it in

a bag. Another gathers the dope. The mechanic tries to

protest and Trupo slaps him down with his pistol.

Richie keeps watching as the NY cops arrest no one - but

take the dope and the money (Richie's money) - and stride

out as abruptly as they appeared, like bandits. As they

come past Richie -

Richie shows them his Bureau of Narcotics ID.

One of them checks some of the bills and sees he's right.

Three of the four cops laugh. It's an affable gang of

thieves. The one who doesn't laugh hangs back as the others

start off. He examines Richie's New Jersey ID.

Barbecue after their Sunday softball game. Richie and his

O.C. friends - wise guys - still in their brown and orange

Weequahie jerseys, drinking beer, cooking hamburgers.

Richie and Tony Zaca relax in the den-like pool house.

Richie feels horrible doing this.    Silence.   Then:

Tony nods, You're welcome.    Can tell there's something else

on Richie's mind.

Among the framed family photos around them, is a picture

of Tony's uncle, Albert Tosca.

A Napoleonic statue of the same man on horseback in a

fountain outside a castle-like mansion. Next to it "ride"

three others on marble horses - a woman and two children.

A clay pigeon sails out across the manicured garden. A

shotgun blast shatters it. The man with the gun - Albert

Tosca - hands another to Frank. As Frank sets to shoot, Ana

can seen behind them, with Tosca's wife in the opulent

house, looking uncomfortable.

Mrs. Tosca nods. Ana nods. A strained silence thicker than

the tapestries settles over them until -

The shotgun booms -

As servants stand by, Tosca and his wife and their only

guests - Frank and Ana - finished with lunch, get up from

the table in the formal Formal dining room.

As Mrs. Tosca leads Ana off to give her a tour of the house,

the men head off the other way.

They enter a rich, wood-paneled study lined with books.

Droplets snake down Frank's glass. He senses Tosca has

finally gotten around to why he was invited here.

Tosca studies Frank, who is a study in inscrutability.

Frank doesn't look excited at all. He's the picture of

calm. Tosca smiles benignly and gets up.

Tosca opens a humidor, takes out a couple of Cuban cigars.

Frank does. It's a backhanded threat.        Tosca clips the

cigars with a gold guillotine

Frank knows, in truth, he's not being given any choice in

this matter. Still, maybe it's not so bad.

Tosca slips on his best poker face. Fifty thousand a kilo

would be an extraordinary coup for him.

He hands Frank one of the cigars, expertly prepared.

Doc waits by the car as Frank and Ana walk toward him.

The Toscas wave goodbye from the front step of the mansion.

Frank slips the cigar into his top pocket as they climb in.

A TV: Muhammad Ali, the black man's black man, and Joe

Frazier, the white man's black man, at their 1971 Madison

Square Garden press conference where Ali says as much.

Most of the guys watching it. Richie isn't. He comes

over to Table of Organization. Tacks his Bar Association

notice to it. Regards the photographs, like tentacles of

octopus yet to have a head.

Only the lowest section is made up of blacks (including

Charlie Williams and Jackie Fox, but not Frank Lucas). The

rest of the faces are white and stop about midway up.

They've hit a wall they can't get past.

Another TV here: Howard Cosell, ringside at the Garden as

the first early fans arrive, pointing out that the fight,

because of the political stand Ali's taken, is less about

boxers than war versus anti-war.

Frank chooses a linen jacket from his extensive color-

coordinated racks of Phil Cromfeld suits as Ana, in her

lingerie, puts on make-up at a vanity. He comes up behind

her and sets down a small jewelry box.

The TV in the background as Richie puts a camera with a long

lens in a sports bag and reaches for his coat -

The owner of the gleaming patent leather shoes is shown to

his second row ringside seat just behind the sports writers,

and we move up the full-length chinchilla coat to Frank's

uneasy expression -

Richie's camera roams the faces of the prime ticket holders

ringside: organized crime figures, celebrities, politicians,

women with plunging necklines and platinum hair -

Richie can't believe it's Joe Louis brushing past him -

Joe looks back as Richie approaches him -

Louis acknowledges Richie only slightly more than not at

all. Turns away to join his friends. Richie watches after

him, stung by Louis's disregard.

He snaps a picture of an Italian wise guy he doesn't

recognize ... sifts the camera's view past Frank in the

chinchilla coat ... then returns to him, watches as Tosca

and his guys sit down behind Frank. Richie can't hear -

but can see - their good-natured exchange -

The odd thing to Richie is, Chinchilla's seat is better

than all the Italians'. Detective Trupo notices this, too.

Richie focuses on the Chincilla's date, a stunning girl, a

beauty queen, then shifts back to her boyfriend who's now

shaking the proffered hands of other Italians, then Don

King. Joe Louis himself - who barely acknowledged Richie's

existence - comes over and playfully exchanges "punches"

with the man in the chinchilla coat.

A sudden roar from the crowd as the lights go out except

for the spot on the ring. Ali and Frazier are coming down

the steps through the crush of fans and reporters, preceded

by soldiers carrying flags -

Richie tries to find the guy in the chinchilla coat, but

he's hidden by a flag. Then he glimpses him again just as

Ali shakes his hand before climbing into the ring -

Flashbulbs pop throughout the arena as Robert Goulet

begins the National Anthem. Ali pointedly doesn't sing

along. Richie frames the shadowy figure in the chinchilla

coat, focuses as sharp as he can in the bad light, and

snaps the shutter -

Richie tacks the photograph of the man in the chinchilla

coat to his Table of Organization - low and off to the side

by other pieces of the puzzle that don't fit, other new

faces with no names. Spearman holds a scrap of paper -

They look from Tosca's high position on the board to Frank's

low one, and a wedding march played in traditional fashion

on organ begins and carries over:

From above, a sea of ladies' hats, all coral and pink.

Below, Frank stands at the altar, waiting for his bride.

Toback sifts through documents Richie has gathered:

limousine company records, Frank's thin arrest record, mug

shots of him years younger, the photograph from the fights

and some more from subsequent surveillances.

Ana's family and friends on one side of the aisle, the

extended Lucas family - on the other. Frank's mother looks

at her eldest son at the altar with pride.

A Lucas brother hands some dry cleaning to Spearman -

Another Lucas brother examines a lamp with a frayed cord

brought in by Jones.

Another brother at the register, hands Abruzzo a receipt -

Another brother is photographed by Spearman from a parked

car as he changes tires on a car up on a hoist.

Richie kicks a dent into the fender of his old car.

Frank and Charlie look on as Ana throws the bouquet.

Looking at the Lucas Table of Organization -

Exactly like one, like a scene from The Godfather as Frank

dances with Ana before the reception guests.

Rice rains down on the bride and groom as they climb into

the back of the Towncar. Doc comes around to the driver's

side, gets in and slowly pushes through the crush of guests

waving and throwing kisses.

Flanked front and rear by Frank's security, the marriage

car moves along a rain-slick street. The newlyweds cuddle

in back. Another car pulls up alongside - Trupo's Shelby -

and Doc's right hand instinctively comes off the steering

wheel to settle on his holstered gun. Trupo smiles and

shakes his head, no.

The Lincoln and security cars and Trupo's Shelby parked.

As Frank and Doc climb out, Frank motions to his other

security men to remain calm, he'll handle this.

If Frank is surprised Trupo knows his name, he doesn't show

it, or anything else except an air of professional courtesy.

Trupo looks in at Ana in the back seat, smiles at her. She

turns her head away and closes the door. Trupo leads Frank

away for a private conversation -

Frank ignores the card, stares at Trupo like he's a fool.

Frank's resolve throws Trupo off his rhythm.           He manages:

Frank doesn't carry Ana across the threshold. He strides in

leaving her at the front door, throws a match in the gas

fireplace, comes back from the bedroom a moment later with

the $50,000 chinchilla coat and throws it on the flames.

A march on Washington, protesting the war (archive).

INT. JIMMY RACINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The report continues on a TV here as Teddy's driver, Jimmy

Racine, yells at his girlfriend -

She comes past the TV and into the kitchen past a table

covered with dope paraphernalia.

She yanks open a drawer, grabs a knife and slashes it at

him. He grabs a gun and she runs for the stairs -

He chases her into the street, yelling, raises the gun and

fires, and she goes down, clutching at her butt, moaning -

Moaning here, too.   Richie's lawyer-ex-girlfriend, in bed

with him.

Richie's had Jimmy Racine brought over. Sits with him as

the Three Amigos watch from the shadows. Just coming off

his high, and the attempted murder, Jimmy looks disoriented

as he sits in cuffs in the dungeon-like basement.

Jimmy looks around at the basement dungeon with concern.

Jimmy can easily imagine that scenario and it frightens him.

Jimmy has thought about it all night and walks out of the

building into the chilly morning air.

Jimmy looks over his shoulder as if Richie just called to

him from it, which he didn't. There's no one in sight -

Teddy's car comes around a corner and down the street.

Jimmy Racine, wired, looks in the rear view mirror at Teddy

in the back seat, and, behind him, Richie's car following.

Richie keeps Teddy's car in view ahead. Glances in his

mirror at the cars following him. His detectives.

The detectives' cars parked behind a warehouse. Richie

peers into binoculars at: Teddy's car parked by Frank's

outside another warehouse loading dock. Frank gets out,

discusses something with his brother, comes past Jimmy to

some men in bloody white coats.

He talks to them, returns to his car, takes a valise from

the trunk. He snaps it open revealing stacks of cash, hands

it over and walks to a semi-truck, glancing once in Richie's

direction. Though he can't see anyone there he gives a wave

to them - or is it to the truck driver to pull out -

Stevie shifts around, not wanting to make Frank mad ...

Stevie just stands there, uncomfortable.         Finally -

Frank stares at him unhappily.       Teddy comes over but Frank

barely notices.

Jimmy Racine behind the wheel.       Frank and Teddy in back,

speaking quietly.

Teddy nods. Frank notices Jimmy looking at them in the rear

view mirror.

The car pulls up in front of a building in the clothing

district. Jimmy stays while Teddy and Frank go inside.

Jackie's club looks like a set from a blaxploitation film.

Frank and Teddy, led by a bodyguard, come past some turkey

carcasses and other remnants of Thanksgiving to where Jackie

and a couple friends cavort with some naked girls.

The girls gather their things and leave. Frank wipes at a

modern leather chair with his handkerchief, throws it away,

sits. Jackie lays out a couple lines, offers Frank a rolled

up hundred dollar straw. Frank shakes his head, no thanks.

But first, let me suck up a line of coke -

Jackie doesn't seem to understand.

That.   That's what this is about.      Jackie nods, but -

Jackie regards Frank for a long moment ...

Jackie waits to hear a kinder word but Frank doesn't offer

one. Jackie nods, Fine, okay, but it's more like a warning.

Frank pulls a girl off Teddy's lap and points him toward

the door. Jackie watches them leave.

They emerge from the building to where Jimmy waits.

Frank and Teddy driving in silence.        Eventually -

Teddy doesn't like it, but nods. Suddenly his face is

illuminated by light reflecting in the rear view mirror, an

unmarked police car behind them, flashing its brights.

But Teddy isn't as calm as he begins to pull over.

As Trupo and his partner climb out of their car and approach

Teddy's -

Frank regards him with utter disbelief. Teddy shies as if

he expects to get hit. The SIU detectives arrive.

The Lucases climb out.

Trupo reaches in the driver's side window, takes the keys

from the ignition and comes around to the trunk. Frank and

Teddy exchange a glance as it opens. Silence. Then -

Six kilos of heroin are illuminated by the trunk light.

Frank and Trupo regard it in silence. Then -

Trupo reaches into the trunk, picks up two of the heroin

bricks, tucks them under his arm and looks at Frank -

Tony rakes out the plain, `pre-microwaveable' popcorn,

using his hand. Gives some to Richie. Half of it's burnt.

Tony hands Richie some snapshots: The Zaca family on the

slopes of a resort, and in and outside a beautiful snow-

dotted cabin.

Everything seems to stop. Richie becomes aware of the

sounds around them, the girls splashing around outside ...

What Richie knows is that no matter what he does or says at

this point he's got a problem.

Richie considers the room itself, measuring the odds of

microphones and a recorder being in it somewhere.

Richie stares at Tony, then puts the pictures in his hand.

The bailiff looks over, but she doesn't care.

His lawyer.    Which is true.    Everyone's watching them now.

The same judge who sends a collection plate around sits

before Richie and Laurie and their attorneys.

Frank plugs the cord in and the tree lights up.

They regard each other.    The carol continues over:

Ana hangs tinsel on the tree as Frank gives the shepherd

some dog toy presents he's bought. More to himself:

He gets up, pets the dog, and looks out the window at

Christmas angels stretched across the street, at people on

the sidewalk, wondering perhaps which of them are undercover

cops, at Trupo's car, still parked outside.

She pulls a drawer open. Takes out their passports.

Begins packing. The brothers watch, not sure what to do,

or say. To them -

He obviously wants to talk to Ana alone. Pulls away from

the doctor. They all leave. Ana keeps packing.

HARD CUT TO:

Frank and Nate and their "army" of black servicemen and Thai

thugs wind through the jungle with pack mules.

The same farm and hut as before. Frank and the Chinese

General sip tea. The four million dollars in cash Frank

brought sits on the table.

The General seems fond of Frank, and not only because of all

the money on the table.

Frank doesn't say.

Jimmy loiters close enough to the open pay phone, to hear

Teddy's side of the conversation.

Jimmy's come over to share his news with the detectives.

But Richie isn't pleased with it - or with Jimmy.

Jimmy shies back a step in case Abruzzo takes a swing.

Front door. Trupo sort of waves a search warrant at Julie

as invites himself in. The NY cops follow, fan out. Trupo

and his detectives head upstairs -

The plane has been brought into a hangar where it's being

taken apart like a car stripped by thieves. Inside the

cabin, seats are removed and inspected, carpeting pulled up,

panels unscrewed, lavatories dismantled.

Downstairs - Ana and Frank's mother, guarded, can hear

Trupo and his detectives, upstairs, ransacking a bedroom.

Upstairs - the SIU detectives pull open drawers, throw

clothes from the closets.   Trupo picks up an invitation to

a United Nations ball, tosses it down again. Finds a safety-

deposit box key in a sock drawer, puts it in his pocket.

The engines and landing gear are disassembled, the tires

opened up and searched. A nozzle plunges into a toilet and

pumps out the contents into barrels detectives fish through

with gloved hands -

Ana is taken upstairs, brought before the SIU detectives

who wait for the NYPD cops to leave the room. The place

has been torn apart.

Trupo slaps her hard across the face -

Richie, off by himself, watches with a growing sense of

panic as the mechanics, detectives and customs agents begin

removing the metal skin from the plane. Coffins are being

off-loaded.

Downstairs, Mama Lucas puts washcloth on Ana's swollen

cheek. They can hear the search continuing upstairs: things

being ripped from the walls, the walls themselves splintered

apart with sledgehammers, glass breaking. To Mama Lucas -

They've looked everywhere and found nothing. The plane,

in fact, hardly resembles a plane anymore - no panel left

that hasn't been removed, no cavity not probed - except -

Richie's glance settles on the military caskets as they're

loaded onto a truck, armed soldiers standing guard -

Frank's bedroom has been destroyed. Trupo, standing at a

window glances out at the sound of a barking of a dog to see

Frank's German shepherd down in its kennel.

Richie gets up slowly and approaches the coffins as -

Trupo crosses the lawn toward the kennel and barking dog -

Richie stands over the nearest coffin -

The army captain regards the detective for a long moment.

The captain doesn't comply. Richie moves to open the coffin

himself and every soldier's shouldered rifle immediately

comes into firing position, aimed at him.

Richie stares at the weapons and the uniformed men holding

them, safeties off, fingers on the triggers; all they're

waiting for is their commander's order to fire.

Trupo regards the shepherd snarling at him from behind the

kennel fence. Comes around back. Pushes at the frame. It

moves a little, like it's levered -

With the rifles still pointed at him, Richie kneels down,

pulls the latches of the coffins, half expecting to hear an

accompanying barrage of gunfire. He lifts the lid. Sees a

long black body bag inside -

Trupo comes around to the front of the kennel again with his

gun out and aims it at the dog. As he fires -

Richie pulls at the zipper, parting the plastic body bag,

revealing the remains of a young soldier -

The dead dog slides against the fencing as Trupo overturns

the kennel to reveal Frank's stash of cash.

Richie and Toback sit before the Federal Attorneys and

customs agents. The US Attorney hangs up a phone ... then:

Richie's in serious trouble and knows it.    As does Toback.

Richie does, but can't conceal the contempt he feels for

these men who've never spent a minute on the street but act

as if know more than him, and who are, in the unfortunate

organization of his world, his superiors.

No one in the room, except Richie and Toback, has ever

heard the name. The federal men regard one another blankly.

Now there's a longer, even deeper silence, before -

Richie is looking at faces that are still trying to make

sense out of his ridiculous theory. Toback tries to come to

his defense -

As the guy stands, pumping the shotgun, Spearman yanks it

hard against his throat like a garrote, forcing him to the

floor. The shotgun explodes, showering plaster and pellets.

Jones and Abruzzo are instantly all over the other guy as

Richie swings the sledgehammer into the door -

The door splinters - the room already in chaos - Teddy,

panicked, runs for the bedroom - the detectives crash in

yelling at the girls to get down - a shot from somewhere

inside wings Abruzzo - Jones and Spearman firing back -

crawling across the floor like an infantrymen -

Richie comes into the darkened bedroom leading with his

pistol. But Teddy's gone. He sees a tapestry of a tiger on

a wall. Pulls at it, finds a big hole knocked into another

dark apartment, climbs through, sees an open door -

As Richie rushes out to the hallway he can hear footfalls

echoing in the stairwell. He starts down, taking the stairs

five at a time, chases Teddy down two flights -

Teddy yanks open a door, runs down a corridor, bangs into

an apartment. Richie reaches the apartment just as Teddy is

goes out onto an exterior balcony -

Richie continues along the interior corridor, running

parallel to Teddy on the balcony, who trips over some debris

and garbage, looking over his shoulder for Richie -

Richie cuts through another apartment to head him off, but

the door to the balcony is nailed shut. So are the windows.

Richie looks around, grabs a small portable television and,

just as Teddy runs past, hurls it through a window at him,

hitting him in the head.

He falls hard, dazed. Richie hurries through the broken

window. Teddy comes to and fights back, until Richie breaks

his femur with his bare hands. Teddy howls in excruciating

pain -

Police cars outside.    Eugene Lucas is cuffed and led away.

The courtroom doors swing open and Richie sees Frank Lucas,

in a tailored suit, escorted in without cuffs by an amiable-

looking federal marshal.

As Frank moves through the gallery, Richie sees it's full of

the gangster's friends, many of them celebrities, who smile

and greet and fawn as if the Pope has arrived.

Richie has evidence tables covered with cash, weapons,

stocks, bonds, property deeds, pictures of Frank's holdings,

heroin in blue cellophane.

Frank has celebrities, community leaders, Joe Louis himself

who will testify to Frank's benevolent character. The Champ

hugs the heroin trafficker warmly in front of everyone and

Richie wonders if he should just give up now.

Richie sees it in slow motion: the hands reaching out to

Frank, the pats on his back, lipsticked mouths of beautiful

women offering kisses and words of encouragement, his old

mother giving him a hug.

He watches Frank's head turn slowly, his eyes passing his

phalanx of attorneys, the jury, finally settling on Richie

in his cheap suit seated at the prosecutors table.

Frank's eyes smile as they regard Richie, and seem to ask,

Can you see this - can you see what you're up against - can

you see how insignificant you are?

Reaching the end of the welcoming line finally, Frank

brushes by Richie and disappears from view somewhere within

the protective husk of his multi-million-dollar legal team.

Richie slowly lifts himself from his chair, steps forward,

turns to look at the jury that's studying him, finally finds

his voice:

Wire mesh separates Frank from his battalion of lawyers.

He glances over them to Richie being led through the large

Visiting Room.

The attorneys get up and leave. Richie takes their place.

Frank regards him a moment, offering the same knowing smile

from the courtroom. Richie offers nothing.

Richie doesn't say. Frank searches his face for some clue

to where on earth he's from.

Frank studies him.

Richie knows Frank isn't kidding ...

Frank suddenly explodes -

Guards look over, then glance away once it's clear the

outburst is through. Richie remains serene. Eventually -

But Frank is worried, most of all by this cop who doesn't

take money sitting placidly in front of him.

Frank has never been so frustrated by anyone in his life.

He wants to work something out with Richie obviously, but he

can't figure out how. Frank studies him.

Frank does, but doesn't like it, and doesn't know if he can

do it.

Frank isn't sure he heard right.

They regard one another in silence.      Richie can tell Frank

sees daylight.

Frank is silent for several moments.      Finally -

Frank debates with himself the step he's about to take ...

Surveillance photographs of cops seen earlier taking

envelopes of money on 116th Street and other drops go up

on a new, elaborate Table of Organization - of cops.

Richie dismantles the Lucas Table of Organization here,

taking down the photographs. As it collapses -

Frank puts up photographs of detectives -

police stations past other cops watching with dread like

maybe they're next -

A surveillance photograph of the four Princes of the City

striding down a sidewalk goes up on the cell wall -

from a golf course -

As Frank tapes the picture of Trupo at the top of the

pyramid of corruption -

Trupo, coffee in hand, comes into his garage from his

kitchen. Opens the garage door and sees two squad cars

parked outside ...

Manhattan DA's office against 53 NYPD and SIU detectives -

Frank gathers his few personal belongings and puts them in

a box. Stands with the box and waits for the cell door to

open. The Table of Organization and files are gone.

Legend:   Frank Lucas was convicted of Conspiracy to

Legend:   Federal authorities confiscated over 250 million

Richie, too, is packing, putting personal items into boxes.

Legend:   The day after he convicted Frank Lucas and 30 of

Richie, carrying the box, switches off the lights and closes

the door behind him on his way out.

Legend:   Six months later, he quit the Prosecutors Office

Frank steps out into sunlight, free but owning nothing but

the cardboard box in his arms. Looks out across the parking

lot to see if anyone has come to pick him up. Sees Richie

by his car, hand raised above his head like a flag.

The two of them stand outside Richie's car on the same

corner Frank shot Tango. Frank looks up at the street signs

that used to say 116th Street and 8th Avenue. Now they say

116th Street and Frederick Douglass Boulevard.

He considers the street itself. It too has changed. The

corner groceries, as Bumpy prophesied, really are gone now.

Frank glances to where his favorite diner used to be, and

across the street to where he shot Tango. It isn't a fruit

stand any more.

It's a Nike store with huge paintings of Michael Jordan and

the admonition "Just Do It."

A car equipped with sub-woofer bass comes booming past.

Frank stares at it with the same pained look Bumpy had at

the discount emporium.

Richie nods.    Frank looks back at the new storefronts.

The look Richie gives him calmly assures Frank if he did

that it'd be the last phone he made outside prison - ever.

He buttons the cuffs of the fake Members Only windbreaker

Richie bought him off the street.

Frank glances away to three young hoods coming toward them

like they own the sidewalk and everything around it - baggy

pants, bandanas tied around their heads.

Frank's right in their path but doesn't move, forcing one

of them to squeeze between him and a parking meter. The

gangsta looks back, is about to say something, or do

something, but, examining the expression of quiet menace on

Frank's face, thinks better of it. The others stop.

The first one is still staring at Frank, but finally has the

good sense to let it go.

They move on.    Frank glances to Richie.

Frank zips up his Members Only jacket, props up the collar

and points himself in the other direction.

