Gangsters in shiny suits are squeezing through windows

and leaping off balconies.

WIDE - WISEGUYS

fleeing into the surrounding woods and fields.

Two wiseguys in suits crouch in the tall grass.

Suddenly they see a John Deere harvester bearing down on

them.

The farmer goes flying off the harvester and the two

wiseguys drive off on it.

The farmer looks up to see the John Deere disappear in a

swirling cloud of dust that FILLS the SCREEN.

END CREDITS.

on top of an espresso. PULL BACK as a hand reaches in

and runs a lemon rind along the rim of the cup. The

espresso is picked up and sipped by MANETTA, the aging

boss of a prominent New York crime family.

INT. RITZ CLAM BOX - LATE AFTERNOON (PRESENT)

The place is nearly empty. Manetta is talking to PAUL

VITTI, a dark, intense, intelligent man in his late

forties, and a powerful boss in his own right.

They finish eating.

They get up to leave. Vitti drops some money on the

table. Bodyguards follow them to the door. The waiters

and the owner bow to them as they pass. They are almost

out the door when Vitti hesitates.

The instant he steps back inside, Manetta and his

bodyguard are struck by an incredible VOLLEY of GUNFIRE,

which BLOWS OUT all the GLASS in the DOOR and WINDOWS.

Vitti's bodyguard, JELLY, grabs him and throws him behind

the counter, shielding him with his body.

Outside, the shooting has stopped and curious bystanders

are looking in the broken windows. Vitti's eyes well up

with tears.

being pulled out of a box. CAROLINE, a woman in her

early thirties, dabs at her eyes with the tissue. She's

sitting on the couch in --

INT. BEN'S OFFICE - SAME TIME

The office is warm, comfortable, and nicely decorated.

BEN SOBOL

her therapist, seems to be listening intently.

Ben leans forward sympathetically.

He's in his mid-forties, has an expressive face and a

quick wit, and despite the occasional lapse, he is a

gifted and caring psychologist.

Caroline looks curiously at Ben, unperturbed.

BEN

Lost in his fantasy, not really listening.    He comes

to attention and tries to cover.

Caroline bursts into tears again.

Ben rushes upstairs and into his bedroom. His 14-year-old

son MICHAEL is in his room putting on a tuxedo.

Ben exits, pulling off the tux shirt.

Paul Vitti gets out of his car and walks to the warehouse

with his most trusted soldier, Jelly, a hulking bruiser,

and his sidekick JIMMY, a tightly-wound ferret with chips

on both shoulders.

Wham!   Ben REAR-ENDS the CAR in front of them.

The minivan has rear-ended a black Lincoln Town Car. The

trunk has sprung open and Nicky Shivers can be seen in

the trunk, bound and gagged, kicking and squirming.

Muffled shouts can be heard through the duct tape over

his mouth.

Jelly and Jimmy jump out of the Lincoln and slam the top

of the trunk just as Ben gets out of the minivan to

inspect the damage.

Ben looks at the damage. The Lincoln has gotten the

worst of it. The rear bumper is hanging off, and Jelly

is struggling to latch the trunk.

Jelly steps in to defuse the situation, warning Jimmy off

with a look.

Jimmy is reattaching the rear bumper and securing the

trunk lid with duct tape.

HORNS start HONKING behind them.

Jelly takes the card and reads it.

Ben hears KICKING from inside the car trunk.

Ben looks totally confused as Jelly hustles back to his

car.

Ben's father, at the piano in the spacious, elegant,

tastefully-decorated living room, surrounded by adoring

guests, playing and singing an exuberant rendition of

"You Must Have Been a Beautiful Baby." Isaac is a silver-

haired patrician, overloaded with self-esteem.

BEN AND MICHAEL

standing off to the side talking to Ben's mother DOROTHY.

In the corner is a large advertising display featuring

Isaac's smiling picture on the front cover of his new

book, Tell Me What You Feel, Tell Me What You Want.

Isaac joins them.

Dorothy exits.

Isaac pulls Ben into the foyer.

Applause and laughter from the guests. Ben grabs a

glass of champagne from a passing waiter's tray.

Vitti's men converse quietly while a soldier sweeps the

room for bugs. He gives the "all clear" and SALVATORE

MASIELLO, the old consigliere, speaks.

CARLO MANGANO, the burly underboss of the Vitti family,

jumps in.

He feels a stabbing pain in his chest.

He walks outside. Jelly follows.     Mangano looks

quizzically after them.

Vitti is having trouble breathing.

Sweating profusely now, Vitti feels another stabbing

chest pain.

Vitti is putting on his shirt. He looks considerably

better. Jelly is sitting down, tapping his own knee with

the little rubber hammer. Nothing moves.

DOCTOR SHULMAN, a young cardiology resident, enters.

As Vitti moves toward the Doctor, Jelly instinctively

grabs the Doctor from behind and holds him while Vitti

wraps the blood pressure cuff around his neck.

The Doctor nods vigorously, his eyes bugging out as the

pressure around his neck increases.

Jelly releases the Doctor, grabs all the papers and

follows Vitti out the door.

Vitti and Jelly come walking out the emergency room exit.

Vitti stops.

Ben is with a patient, CARL ANDERSON, a high-strung

milquetoast in his late forties.

The door opens and Jelly enters.

Jelly takes Carl by the elbow and lifts him off the

couch.

Jelly pulls a big roll of bills out of his pocket,

removes the rubber band, and peels off a couple of

fifties.

Carl looks at the money, then he gives Ben a plaintive

look.

Carl looks back to Jelly.

Carl takes the money, gives Ben the thumbs up and

exits. Jelly follows him to the door and waves for

someone to come in.

Paul Vitti steps into the office.    Ben freezes.   Jelly

crosses to take Vitti's coat.

Jelly exits. Vitti walks around the room, taking

everything in. He picks up the phone and listens.          Hangs

up.

Ben sits quickly on the coffee table. He crushes a box

of tissues, then moves them out from under his ass.

Vitti picks up a stack of CDS and looks through them.

Vitti picks up an autographed baseball bat from Ben's

desk.

Vitti puts the bat down.

Ben starts for his chair, but Vitti sits in it first.

Ben sits on the couch. Vitti adjusts the cuffs of his

shirt, and runs a hand down the crease in his slacks.

Ben looks to Vitti for a response.    Vitti stares at him

for a long, uncomfortable beat.

Ben decides to go for it.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/9/98                                35A.

He goes back to lovemaking.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/21/98                                36.

Completely frustrated now, he gets out of bed, leaving

her alone and confused.

Ben and Laura are nestled together in bed, asleep.

Ben stirs.

Jelly's head pops up on Ben's side of the bed. Ben wakes

up and his eyes go wide. Jelly puts a finger to his lips.

Kelp. Rocks. Bubbles. A mermaid swims INTO VIEW and

meets up with another mermaid. They do beautiful back

flips under the water.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/21/98                               37.

We PULL BACK to see the mermaids through the viewing

windows of a large tank behind the bar of the --

INT. WIKI WACHI LOUNGE - LITTLE LATER

A tacky dive with a tropical motif.    Ben, in his robe, is

being berated by Vitti.

Vitti stares at Ben.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/21/98                              38.

Ben turns away and starts for the door.

Vitti throws his arms around him and kisses him on both

cheeks. A look of concern crosses Ben's face.

Immigrant garment workers cut and sew fabric.

This is Sindone headquarters. A few of his trusted guys

are in attendance: HANDSOME JACK, POTATOES, and MOONY,

his consigliere.

PRIMO SINDONE, a vain, pompous Mussolini, is standing on

a stool in his underwear, being fitted for a suit by a

nervous tailor.

Sindone nods for the tailor to get out.

Ben plunges into the tank in the middle of a school of

sharks. He screams silently underwater and swims

desperately for the top.

A couple of families watching THROUGH the viewing window

laugh and applaud as if it's part of the show.

An alligator loafer steps down on it. We TILT UP TO a

SEVEN-YEAR-OLD BOY with a shovel and pail.

After a beat, a ten dollar bill falls where the

sandcastle was. The Boy's face instantly brightens.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

The alligator loafer belongs to Jelly. He's walking with

Jimmy and other bodyguards who form a loose protective

perimeter around Ben and Vitti as they walk along the

shore. All the guys are wearing loud Jersey beach

outfits.

Vitti bends over and starts drawing in the sand.

TINO, a local Miami hitman, is covertly watching Ben and

Vitti on the beach. He talks into a cell phone.

Vitti finishes drawing.

They start walking.

Vitti looks out to sea.

Ben can't see his face, but Vitti's eyes are full of

tears. He wipes his eyes.

FBI AGENTS STEADMAN, RICCI, and PROVANO CLICK away with

long-lens CAMERAS as they watch from the rooftop.

Vitti, Ben and Jelly enter the suite. MARIE, Vitti's

wife, and their children, THERESA, 14, ANNA, 10, and

ANTHONY, seven, are there. Vitti greets them warmly,

suddenly a different man.

Ben looks to Vitti, then to Marie.

Anthony gives Ben a manly handshake.

He kisses his father and exits with the others.

Jelly exits.

He crosses to the bar, pours himself a drink, and lights

a cigarette.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/20/98                            71.

Jimmy and Jelly are hastily throwing clothes into

suitcases. Vitti comes out of the bedroom hurriedly

buttoning up his shirt.

Ben bursts into the room.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/20/98                                72.

Suddenly Laura bursts into the room, still in her wedding

dress, but disheveled.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/20/98                                  73.

He kisses her and closes the door behind her.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/20/98                                 74.

Vitti stares at Ben for a long beat.

Sindone is watching "America's Most Wanted," rooting for

the criminals. Moony comes to him looking concerned.

INTERCUT Vitti and Sindone.

Vitti is on the phone, struggling to contain his rage.

Ben watches.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/20/98                               74A.

Ben nods in encouragement.

Thumbs up from Ben.

He looks at Ben.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 7/20/98                           74C.

Cheeky marble cherubs bathe in the soaring jets and

bubbling pools of a large rococo fountain.

EXT. BEN'S DRIVEWAY - DAY

Ben, Laura and Michael are staring up at the elaborate

fountain that now fills the back yard.

Michael crosses away.    Laura glares at Ben.

They kiss.

The back door opens and Ben, Laura and Michael enter,

struggling with the luggage.

They freeze. Sitting in the family room are the three

FBI agents: Steadman, Ricci and Provano.

Laura recognizes Provano from the hotel and glares

at him.

Michael exits. On the coffee table are dozens of pictures

of Ben and Paul Vitti taken in Miami and just about

everywhere else.

Ben looks out the window and does a double take.

Isaac and Dorothy are standing in the yard, gawking

at the fountain.

Ben exits.

Ben rushes up to Isaac and Dorothy.

Ben kisses his mother as she stares at the fountain.

Dorothy crosses away.

They embrace awkwardly.

Ben comes back to Laura and the Agents.

Ben nods, finally understanding Vitti's two week deadline.

The Agents exit.

Laura storms out of the room in a fury. Ben stands,

looking miserable, then we hear Michael's voice from

the vent.

Vitti is conferring with Sal Masiello, his consigliere.

Vitti shoots Jelly a sharp look.      Jelly looks away.

They cross to the main aisle of the church.

Ben stops cold. A casket sits in front of the altar.

A funeral service is in progress.

The funeral procession comes down the aisle.

Then the technician plays an altered version.

Steadman shuts off a tape recorder, having just played

the altered tape for a stunned Ben and Laura. A long

beat, then Ben looks up at the agents.

Jimmy is parked at the corner watching the Sobol house as

the three FBI agents leave.

Masiello is face to face with Vitti.

Jelly's CELLULAR PHONE RINGS. He steps away and answers

it quietly during the following.

Jelly covers the phone and turns to Vitti.

Vitti nods.

Ben waits on a deserted corner in Brooklyn. A black Town

Car appears and stops to pick him up. The windows are

heavily tinted. Ben takes a deep breath, crosses to the

car and opens the back door.

EXT. JELLY'S CAR - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Ben finds Jelly sitting in the back seat next to Vitti.

A waiter pours red wine. Ben is eating out of pure

anxiety. Jelly and Jimmy watch him intently. Vitti

stares off.

Carlo Mangano comes to the table. Vitti gets up, hugs

and fraternal kisses all around, then Mangano sits down

with them.

The agents monitor the conversation through the bug Ben

is wearing. They shake their heads at the

incomprehensible dialogue.

Ben watches Vitti and Mangano cross the room, then turns

to Jelly and Jimmy.

Everything is suddenly clear to Ben.      He stands up.

Ben and Jelly enter.

Ben goes into a stall, latches the door and drops his

pants. Jelly combs his hair in the mirror.

INT. STALL - SAME TIME

Ben hastily unbuttons his shirt, revealing a small

microphone taped to his chest. He picks at the edge of

the tape, takes a deep breath, then rips it off.

JELLY

at the urinal, reacts to Ben's cry.

Ben and Jelly rejoin Vitti.      Ben starts right in on him.

They exit without hesitation.

ANALYZE THIS - 6/17/98                                   101.

The FBI van pulls up and lurches to a stop.

Steadman rushes in, pushes open the stall and sees the

microphone and transmitter in the bottom of the toilet

bowl.

Jelly's car pulls into a scrap metal yard and parks.

They all get out. Jelly hands Vitti a gun.

Jelly looks apologetically at Ben.

Jelly and Jimmy walk away, leaving Ben alone with Vitti.

They start shouting at each other.

They glare at each other for a moment.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 6/10/98                              103.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 6/10/98                                104.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 6/10/98                              105.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 6/10/98                              106.

Vitti leans back against the car, slumps to the ground

and starts sobbing, 35 years of pent-up grief finally

finding expression.

Standing around smoking, waiting for the death shot.

Ben is comforting Vitti.

Vitti just cries louder.

hearing the crying.

ANALYZE THIS - Rev. 6/10/98                            106A.

Ben tries to comfort Vitti who is still crying.

Suddenly, there is a GUNSHOT and a BULLET RICOCHETS off

the TOP of the CAR.

He OPENS UP with a MAC-10.

JELLY AND JIMMY

Jimmy goes down, hit in the shoulder.      Jelly dives for

cover behind a rusted car body.

VITTI AND BEN

Vitti continues to sob, oblivious to the GUN BATTLE

raging around him.

JELLY

He FIRES back at Handsome Jack.

POTATOES

He rakes the Lincoln with a BURST from the ASSAULT RIFLE.

JELLY'S CAR

All the WINDOWS ARE BLOWN OUT by the GUNFIRE.     Ben

screams.

Vitti just sits there on the ground, still sobbing

quietly.

JELLY

He reloads and FIRES again.

POTATOES

Jelly's last SHOT strikes him right in the chest, and he

goes down.

HANDSOME JACK

He sees Potatoes fall and starts moving out, covering his

retreat with another BURST from his MACHINE GUN.

JELLY'S CAR

Something snaps inside Ben.

He takes the GUN out of Vitti's hand and starts FIRING

WILDLY.

JELLY

He sees Handsome Jack emerge from cover and takes him out

with FIVE QUICK SHOTS.

HANDSOME JACK

He goes down FIRING, dead before he hits the ground.

SCRAP YARD

It's suddenly quiet. After a long moment, Jimmy rolls

over and moans. Jelly goes to him and starts examining

his wound.

Ben stands up, still holding Vitti's gun.    He sees

Handsome Jack lying dead on the ground.

Vitti emerges from behind the car looking red-eyed but

composed again and looks at Ben.

Vitti holds out his hand.      Ben hesitates for a moment,

then hands him the gun.

Vitti nods, they stand there for another moment, then Ben

walks off into the night.

ELAINE, a fortyish, tired-looking wife and mother sits

on the couch across from Ben. Ben looks bored and

depressed.

Michael's laughter is heard coming through the vent.        Ben

closes his eyes and sighs deeply.

Elaine stares, taken aback, then she smiles.

Jelly, Jimmy and Iron Mike arrive and walk up to the

house. The rest of the crew are standing around on

the porch.

Jelly enters and finds Vitti in his undershorts, putting

on his tie, looking very strong.

