MARRIAGE LICENSE BUREAU - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up on the sign MARRIAGE LICENSE BUREAU, with people

passing underneath.

The camera gets down from the sign to floor level. Two journalists

are approaching, one equipped with a camera.

They stop at the door of the room.

Larger view of the room, where several people are, either standing

in a queue, either sitting at a table and filling forms, either

chatting in groups of two or three

Back to the two journalists still standing a the door.

He looks around for a few second, then starts to move away.

The photographer makes him come back. He points to someone in the

room.

In a line of people queueing in front of a counter, we see

Mortimer Brewster, with a hat and a pair of large dark glasses. He

turns around and notices the two journalists looking at him. He

raises the collar of his black coat to try to hide his face. The

girl in front of him turns around to look at him. She has blonde

curly hair and wears a hat with a strange white feather. She is

Elaine Harper. With both his hands, Mortimer turns her face back

toward the counter.

Back to the two journalists at the door of the room.

He starts moving to get a better look at Mortimer.

Mortimer moves in front of Elaine, who smiles.

The two journalists are now in the room, and they look at

Mortimer.

Mortimer looks very embarrassed.

Back to the two journalists.

Back to the line of people waiting in front of the counter. The

marriage clerk is standing behind a set of metal bars. A couple of

people leaves the counter. It's now Mortimer and Elaine's turn.

The marriage clerk sings :

He smiles to Mortimer and Elaine.

She spoke in a very soft voice. The clerk put his hand around his

ear.

She speaks louder.

Mortimer comes very close to the bars above the counter and

whispers.

The clerk puts his hand back around his ear.

The two journalists are straining their own ears to be able to

understand Mortimer's name

Mortimer raises his glasses, but still whispers.

Mortimer bends down, putting his chin at the counter level. Then

he stands up again, and opens the gate in front of the clerk. He

knocks his head on the bar above the gate. He straightens his hat,

and brings his face close to the clerk's one. He still whispers.

With his finger, he signals the clerk to come close to him.

Mortimer stops controlling himself and starts yelling

He doesn't finish telling his name, takes Elaine's hand, and runs

outside the room, dragging Elaine behind him.

The two journalists react to the news.

They start running after Mortimer.

CORRIDOR OUTSIDE THE MARRIAGE BUREAU - INTERIOR DAY

Still dragging Elaine, Mortimer runs in the corridor.

Mortimer pushes Elaine into a telephone booth and enters behind

her. There is already a man in the booth who is using the phone.

With three people in the booth, Mortimer can hardly close the door

behind him.

The two journalists runs in the corridor.

But they pass the booth without noticing that Mortimer is inside.

In the booth, the man, still holding the phone receiver, tries to

protest the intrusion.

Mortimer takes the receiver from him and speaks into it.

He hangs up the receiver, and then pushes violently the man

outside the booth. The man looks very angry, but doesn't try to

come back in the booth.

In the booth, a very exciter Mortimer is talking to Elaine.

He taps on a pin on the lapel of Elaine's jacket.

He takes his glasses off. Elaine whispers :

He kisses her very passionately.

He stops kissing her, and gets out of the booth, dragging her

behind him. They enter the marriage bureau.

MARRIAGE LICENSE BUREAU - INTERIOR DAY

They get back a the end of the line of people waiting to be

married.

The girl in front of Elaine winks to Elaine. Elaine winks back to

her.

A man in front of the girls turns toward Mortimer and smiles to

him, in a slightly idiotic way. Mortimer looks at him, a bit

surprised, and gives him a forced smile, showing his teeth.

BROOKLYN - RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT - EXTERIOR DAY

We see a street in Brooklyn, in front of nice house. Written on

the screen in large white letters :

BROOKLYN - CHURCHYARD - EXTERIOR DAY

A churchyard, with a close-up on a tombstone : Jacob John

Vendemeer died 1654. Written on the screen in large white

letters :

We see the gate of the churchyard, with a plate that says : This

cemetery was established in april 1654

Along this gate, two cops are doing their beat. The older one,

Sargent Brophy, is talking to the younger one, Officer Patrick

O'Hara.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

Walking their beat, the two cops have come outside the Brewster

sisters residence.

They have come near a police call box. Brophy takes a key out of

his pocket to open the box

In front of the house, there is a Room for Rent sign. While

Brophy picks up the phone in the call box, O'Hara looks at the

sign.

Brophy starts talking in the receiver of the call box.

We get a closer view of the front of the house. A large

rectangular stone, with Brewster engraved on it. A group of

children runs in front of the house.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

In the forefront of the room, Teddy Brewster is playing Mozart's

Turkish March on the harpsichord. He looks a bit like late

President Theodore Roosevelt. And he is dressed like the President

was dressed on the official pictures we've got of him... And, like

the President, he is wearing a pince-nez.

In another corner of the room, Abby Brewster is having tea with

Reverend Harper, Elaine's father. She looks like an old English

lady, a bit like Agatha Christie's Miss Marple.

Close-up on the book Reverend Harper just took on the table :

Marriage, a Fraud and a Failure, by Mortimer Brewster.

He sneezes.

He sneezes again, louder this time. Teddy stops playing and there

is a puzzled look in his eyes.

Teddy puts back in his pocket the handkerchief he had taken out

and starts playing again.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

The two cops, Brophy and O'Hara, are mounting the steps to the

Brewster sisters house.

He rings the doorbell.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

At the sound of the doorbell, Teddy stops playing.

She gets up from her armchair.

She goes to the door and opens it.

The two cops get in.

O'Hara closes the door.

Teddy, with his teacup in hand, joins the group. He speaks with a

very serious expression on his face.

Brophy salutes him and stands at attention.

Teddy gives an intrigued look to O'Hara, who doesn't seem to

understand. Brophy elbows him with the arm which is still

saluting.

He eventually understands what his Sargent is trying to tell him.

He salutes but with a less official attitude than his Sargent.

Teddy smiles.

Brophy puts his arm down. O'Hara looks at his Sargent with a

perplexed expression, and takes longer to put his arm down

Teddy looks at O'Hara with a puzzled expression.

O'Hara looks ill at ease under Teddy's stare.

O'Hara moves toward the pile of toys. Teddy's eyes are following

him with the same puzzled expression. O'Hara feels less and less

at ease.

Teddy, who has started to mount the stairs to the upper level,

stops in his stride, pretends he is taking a sword out of a sheath

at his side, points this imaginary sword in front of him and

starts running up the stairs, yelling :

When he arrives on the balcony, on which open the bedroom doors,

he rushes into his room and slams the door.

While Bophy and Reverend Harper remain unmoved, O'Hara, who is

standing by the grandfather's clock, jumps and looks at the clock,

which chimes once. The minute hand of the clock falls down to the

half-hour position. O'Hara is very disturbed and points his stick

to his Sargent, who seems to be totally unmoved by the event and

laughs with Reverend Harper and Abby.

Abby moves away from them to the grandfather's clock. She puts the

minute hand back into its original position. Brophy and Reverend

Harper joins her by the clock.

O'Hara picks up the box in which the toys are stocked.

She moves away and exits into the kitchen.

On the balcony, Teddy gets out of his room with a bugle, and

starts playing it very loudly. O'Hara jumps and drops the box with

the toys on the floor. Reverend Harper and Brophy seem to be less

moved by the event.

Brophy stands back and points his finger up to Teddy.

Teddy, still standing on the balcony, answers him leaning on the

balustrade.

Teddy goes back into his room, slamming the door behind him. The

grandfather's clock chimes once, and the minute hand falls back to

the half-hour position. O'Hara jumps and looks at the clock.

He stops in the middle of his sentence, gives a quick look to

Reverend Harper, and corrects himself.

O'Hara gives a quick look toward the upper landing, and then nods.

The front door opens and Martha Brewster comes in. Like her

sister, she looks like an old English lady. She is wearing a short

cape and a hat, and she carries a cylindrical can with a handle.

She closes the door.

She goes to Brophy and the Reverend.

O'Hara has picked up the toys and he joins the group.

Abby comes out of the kitchen, carrying a cylindrical can, similar

to the one her sister is carrying

Abby joins the group.

She gives the can to Brophy. Meanwhile, Martha has taken her cape

off.

Teddy is getting down the stairs, carrying a box full of toys

under his arm. He stops a few steps from floor level

He resumes his walking down the stairs.

Brophy takes the box from Teddy. Teddy looks into the box O'Hara

is carrying, and takes a model warship out of the box.

She has taken her hat off.

Teddy tucks the model ship under his arm. O'Hara looks at him with

puzzled eyes.

Brophy moves toward the front door. O'Hara follows him, still

looking at Teddy. Teddy doesn't seem to like the way he looks at

him, and moves the toy ship away from him.

He has reached the front door. Abby has moved near the door, ready

to open it for him.

O'Hara salutes Teddy.

Teddy looks at him and then looks at Brophy, who doesn't salute

him. O'Hara elbows his Sargent with the arm which is saluting.

Brophy looks at Teddy and understands the situation. He also

salutes Teddy.

Teddy salutes them.

Brophy and O'Hara bring their arms down.

Abby opens the front door. The two cops start going out, Brophy

first.

O'Hara goes out, and then comes one step back and shows his face

behind the door. He winks to Teddy. Teddy raises his eyebrows.

O'Hara chuckles, then makes a strange face, and goes out.

She closes the door, and goes back to her sister and Reverend

Harper.

Teddy, still carrying his model warship, starts mounting the

stairs, stops after a few steps, takes his imaginary sword out,

points it forward and runs upstairs, yelling :

He reaches the balcony, turns toward the balustrade and yells.

He goes into his room and slams the door behind him. We hear the

grandfather's clock chiming once.

Reverend Harper looks up at the balcony, then turns to the

Brewster sisters with puzzled eyes.

But Reverend Harper doesn't finish his sentence and sneezes very

loudly. He takes his handkerchief out of his pocket to put it

under his nose.

She goes to the grandfather's clock.

Abby moves the minute hand of the clock back in place.

She comes back to her sister and Reverend Harper.

Reverend Harper laughs.

He starts walking toward the front door, followed by the Brewster

sisters. He reaches the door and opens it.

They all go out.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

The three of them are coming out of the house.

Reverend Harper put his hat back on his head, and starts walking

toward his own house.

The two sisters look at him. We see him cross the churchyard and

enter his house.

They start walking back to the door of their house.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The two sisters enter their house. Martha closes the door.

They both turn their heads toward the stairs, because they just

heard Teddy's door slamming.

She goes to the stairs, followed by Martha. Teddy is coming down.

She points her finger toward the cellar door. Martha seems

delighted by the news.

He rubs his hands

He starts mounting the stairs, stops and goes back a few steps

down, takes his imaginary sword out, points it forward, and runs

upstairs, yelling :

Before Teddy slams his door, Abby put her hand on the face of the

clock to prevent the minute hand falling down.

She goes to the cellar door.

Martha looks around in the room, then looks at her sister with

questioning eyes.

She points to the large chest-bench under the window. Martha seems

delighted and both sisters go to the window-seat. They bend down

to raise the lid of the seat, when someone taps on the window

above the seat. The two sisters stand up and move the curtains

revealing Elaine's face.

Elaine raises the window and kisses the two sisters.

She winks at them, and then runs away.

Martha puts her hand over her mouth.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

A taxi cab has stopped in front of the Brewster sisters house. The

driver is half inside the back of his car, apparently looking for

something. Mortimer is already out of the cab. He is whistling. He

raises his hand and yells :

Elaine is crossing the churchyard to go to her father's house. She

stops and turns around to look at Mortimer.

On one of the tombstones is engraved the name Amanda Brewster

and the dates : 1813-1863.

The Brewster sisters, who were bending out of their window to get

a better view of the scene, are coming back in, looking extremely

happy.

The cab driver gives his coat to Mortimer.

He whistles and goes back inside the back of the car to look for

other missing items.

The driver comes out of the cab, holding a hat.

The driver goes back inside the car.

He gives Mortimer the brooch.

He gives his coat back to the driver and runs away.

Mortimer runs across the churchyard to meet Elaine.

We see the two Brewster sisters peeking behind the curtains of

their window.

Mortimer gives Elaine her hat. She doesn't take it.

Elaine is trying to avoid Mortimer by going around a tree.

He chases her around the tree. They laugh. Mortimer starts

clowning.

He starts chasing her again.

Behind their curtain, the two sisters are still peeking. They

laugh and then slightly move the curtains open a few inches to

have a better look.

Back to the tree. The couple is hidden by the tree. They separate

and move a little away from each other, each one of them appearing

on either side the tree.

Elaine drags Mortimer by the hand from behind the tree.

She starts running away from him.

Mortimer comes slowly from behind the tree, clowning.

He becomes more serious and come closer to her.

He kisses her very passionately.

Mortimer nods.

Elaine kisses Mortimer very passionately.

She starts moving away. He holds her back.

Mortimer kisses her.

Back to the cab driver who is pacing in front of his car. He rubs

his chin.

Mortimer and Elaine are still kissing. Mortimer lets go of Elaine.

He puts her hat on her head.

She moves away.

She turns around.

He starts running toward his aunts' house. Elaine runs to her

father's house.

She stops at the door of her house and starts whistling.

Mortimer, who had also reached his door, stops and turns around.

He starts running toward her, but she stops him.

She opens her door.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The two sisters are eagerly waiting for Mortimer. Martha whispers.

Abby laughs. They hear a door slamming in the next room.

Mortimer rushes into the room and throws his hat on a chair.

The two sisters hug and kiss Mortimer.

Mortimer goes to the telephone, followed by his two aunts.

Mortimer sits at the small desk on which the telephone is, and

whistles while dialing.

She dabs her nose with her handkerchief.

He puts the telephone receiver back on his hook, and he turns on

his chair to face his aunts, his arms resting on the back of the

chair.

He stands up.

Mortimer laughs and hugs his aunts.

Martha moves away to the kitchen.

Abby turns to go searching, and Mortimer pats her behind.

Abby turns back to him.

She goes away on her search.

Teddy comes out of his room on the balcony. He is dressed in full

colonial costume, complete with pith helmet. He is carrying a

shovel and his bugle is stuck in his belt. He walks rapidly down

the stairs.

He stops a few steps from the ground floor, when he spots

Mortimer. He seems very happy to see him.

They shake hands.

Teddy takes off his pince-nez.

He puts his pince-nez back on his nose, and shakes hands again

with Mortimer.

Teddy walks to the cellar door. Mortimer bends slightly.

Before he opens the door, Teddy turns to Mortimer.

He opens the door, and starts walking down the steps to the

cellar. Before the door closes back, we can hear him singing :

Abby is still looking for Mortimer's note, and, in a drawer, she

finds a piece of paper that seems to annoy her.

Mortimer senses there is something wrong in his aunt's voice, and

walks to her.

She holds the paper for Mortimer to take it.

Mortimer takes the picture and looks at it.

INSERT - Close-up of the picture. It shows a very ugly child with

a very strange face.

He gives the picture back to Abby.

Mortimer walks away from his aunt.

Mortimer is searching on the small telephone desk.

He walks across the room and starts searching on the table.

While talking, they both keep on searching everywhere in the room.

Abby goes into the kitchen.

While talking, he keeps on searching and opens the lid of the

window-seat. He gives its insides a quick look and closes it back,

and then moves away.

He stops in his tracks and looks back at the window-seat. He jumps

back to it, opens the lid and closes it very quickly. He then sits

on the seat with a frightened look on his face. Slowly, he kneels

down on the floor, and opens the lid again, but very slowly. He

talks to whatever, or whomever, is in the seat.

He remains a few seconds seated of the seat, with a very puzzled

face.

We hear Elaine whistling. Mortimer tries to whistle back, but no

sound comes from his mouth. He tries again, but with no more

success. He seems in shock.

He looks at the kitchen, then at the seat. There is horror on his

face.

His two aunts come from the kitchen, singing and carrying things

for the celebration.

Mortimer shows a forced smile.

The two sisters puts things on the table, then they come to

Mortimer, who is still seated on the window-seat. Abby is carrying

a big bowl of rice, and the two girls start throwing rice on him.

Mortimer takes the bowl from Abby's hands and put it on a small

table. He remains seated while his aunts are standing in front of

him.

They move away to start setting the table.

Mortimer stands up and comes to the table where his aunts are

working.

He takes Abby's hands in his.

Martha laughs.

Mortimer looks even more shocked than before. His two aunts keep

on setting the table as if nothing had happened.

Mortimer wants to speak, but Abby stops him.

Mortimer is more and more shocked and his aunts, very calmly, keep

on putting plates and silverware on the table.

Mortimer takes his aunts' hands to stop them from setting the

table.

He takes Abby's hands in his.

Mortimer seems ready to faint.

He takes again Abby's hands in his.

Abby goes back table-setting and Mortimer holds himself on the

edge of the table.

Martha walks to the kitchen door, but she stops and turns around.

The two sisters enter the kitchen.

Mortimer remains alone in the room. He has the face of someone who

thinks he is having a nightmare and hopes to wake up soon.

He goes to the telephone desk, picks up the phone and dials 0.

He puts the phone down.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

Elaine is appearing of her room in her father's house. She has got

her purse and her gloves. She plays with a large artificial

flower. She whistles.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Mortimer, half-seated on the telephone desk, comes out of his

dream, and goes to the window. By signs only, he tries to explain

to Elaine that he's got a problem with the window-seat. We don't

see her, but we imagine she doesn't understand, because Mortimer

rushes to the kitchen.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Mortimer rushes into the kitchen.

He stops abruptly. A group of costumed and masked children are

gathered behind the window. Martha is distributing watermelons,

pumpkins and pies to them. The children are saying

incomprehensible words of thanking.

Martha closes the window on them, and switches on the lights.

They both go back to their cooking work in the kitchen. Martha is

preparing some kind of desert in a bowl.

Mortimer paces the kitchen, while his aunts are busy cooking.

Abby leaves the stove where she was working and comes to the

table.

Mortimer looks very shocked.

He comes close to the table where Martha is working. And all of a

sudden, he seems to realize what she just said.

Martha laughs.

Mortimer seems completely dejected and he sits down, not even

listening to his aunts anymore.

Abby, who is sucking her finger, nods to answer.

The telephone rings. Mortimer puts his hand to his ear.

He suddenly realizes that he doesn't have a telephone in his hand.

He rushes out of the kitchen.

They walk out of the kitchen.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Mortimer sits at the telephone desk and picks up the phone.

We hear some whistling, coming from the telephone. Mortimer takes

the receiver a bit away from his ear, surprised. Then he takes it

back.

He slams the phone down on his hook. Then he realizes he has been

rude, and picks it up again.

He realizes there is no one on the phone, and puts it back down.

He jumps from his chair and rushes toward the kitchen. But, when

he sees his two aunts setting the table, he stops and goes to

them.

Martha sits down.

Mortimer realizes it's the chair he's sitting on, and stands up

very quickly.

Mortimer is sitting on the table, and seems not to know what he

must do next. But he suddenly stands up.

He rushes to his aunts.

Abby whispers something in Martha's ear. Martha looks at Mortimer,

smiles, and whispers back in her sister's ear.

She moves toward the kitchen, followed by Abby.

He stands up.

He wants to move away, but his foot get entangled in the back of a

chair, and he almost falls down.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

Elaine appears at the window of her room. She is arranging the

artificial flower on the lapel of her jacket. She moves away from

the window.

The cab driver is still pacing on the sidewalk near his car.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Mortimer closes the drapes between the sitting-room and the next

room. He then goes to the cellar door and opens the door ajar. A

cat meows and comes out through the opening. We hear Teddy singing

down in the cellar.

He listens to the singing coming from the cellar.

He closes the cellar door.

He starts moving across the room, putting his hand in the inside

breast pocket of his jacket.

He gets a couple of tickets out of his pocket. He sits at the

small telephone desk.

He throws the tickets on the desk. He picks up the phone, and

starts dialing.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The night has come. Elaine is walking very rapidly on the

sidewalk. She passes near the taxi. The driver opens the door for

her, but she keeps on walking.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer is standing by the window-seat. All the drapes are

closed. He bends down.

He slowly opens the lid of the seat. When the lid is a few inches

open, he peeks inside.

When he hears Elaine's voice, Mortimer slams the lid down and sit

on the seat.

She is standing by the half-open door, and she makes the gestures

Mortimer made when he had told her the same sentence, earlier in

the churchyard.

He stands up and comes to her in the middle of the room. He gives

her a quick kiss.

She pivots to show him the way she is dressed.

He pushes her toward the door.

She laughs.

She is pulling him toward the door.

She takes his head to bring her mouth close to his ear, and then

she starts whistling. He moves away and rubs his ear.

He bends down for her to see his hair better.

She starts stroking his face. He bends down on her shoulder.

The phone rings. Mortimer jumps up

He pushes her out through the open door.

He slams the door on her, and rushes to the telephone. He sits

down at the desk and picks up the phone.

The front door opens, and Elaine comes back inside the house.

Elaine crosses the room and sits on the window-seat.

Mortimer turns his head and sees Elaine sitting on the window-

seat. He drops the phone on the desk, and yells :

Elaine, frightened, jumps up from the seat. Mortimer rushes to

her.

He moves her away from the window-seat.

He lifts her and actually throws her out of the house

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine bumps into an old man, Mr. Gibbs, standing just outside the

entrance of the house. He is holding a newspaper in his hand.

She comes back to the door, but Mortimer slams it in her face.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer locks the door and goes back to the phone

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine is knocking desperately on the door. Gibbs is still behind

her.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer is back sitting at the desk and talking into the phone.

In the background, we hear Elaine's pounding on the door.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine seems quite angry.

Gibbs shows his newspaper to Elaine

She walks away, leaving Gibbs at the door. She walks quickly by

the taxi. The driver opens the door for her, but she walks on with

quick steps.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer is still on the phone.

The front door bell rings.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Gibbs is standing by the door, ringing the bell.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Abby comes in the room from the kitchen. Mortimer is still on the

phone.

She crosses the room to the front door. She opens the door,

revealing Gibbs.

The kitchen door has remained open, and we see Martha still

working on her cooking.

Hearing that, Martha drops her cooking and comes into the room.

Abby opens the door wide for him to get in.

Martha has joined her sister.

Gibbs takes off his hat.

Quick shot on Mortimer, still on the phone. He gives a quick look

toward his aunts, but doesn't seem interested.

She moves an armchair on the other side of the table.

Back to Mortimer.

Back to Gibbs and the sisters.

Abby looks at her sister with a knowing smile.

She helps him sit down in the armchair, while Martha is bringing a

carafe of wine and a glass.

Short close-up on the carafe of wine, now on the table.

Mortimer is standing, with the telephone set in one hand, and the

receiver on his ear in the other hand. He whispers.

Back to the table.

He stands up and takes his hat, which he had put on the table.

Abby is seated at the table, with Martha standing behind her. She

takes the carafe.

He puts his hat back on the table and sits down.

Abby starts pouring the wine in the glass.

Gibbs takes the glass from Abby.

Gibbs raises his glass.

In the background, Mortimer is yelling louder and louder. Gibbs,

who had the glass almost to his lips, puts it down. The two

sisters watch him with expecting eyes.

Gibbs, who had taken the glass back to his lips, put it down once

more.

A noise of chairs and various objects falling.

Mortimer comes to the table and takes the carafe and a glass.

Abby, concentrated on Gibbs raising the glass to his lips again,

doesn't see him, but Martha does, and seems very anxious about it.

She taps her two forefingers together.

Mortimer keeps on pouring the wine in the glass

Abby sees him. She turns around, and very calmly, holds the hand

which is holding the glass.

He puts the glass down, and suddenly realizes the situation. He

looks at Gibbs, who has taken the glass to his lips. He yells and

Gibbs, frightened, stands up and drops the glass on the floor.

Mortimer points his finger at him.

Gibbs grabs his hat and runs to the front door. Mortimer runs

after him and falls over an armchair standing in his way. The two

sisters seem very upset.

Gibbs gets out and slams the door.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Gibbs runs out of the house, and stops by the cab driver, who is

seated near his taxi, smoking a cigarette.

Gibbs runs away in the street.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The two sisters are seated on the window-seat. Mortimer slowly

raises himself from the overturned armchair.

He stands up and puts the armchair back on its legs.

He walks slowly toward them.

Both sisters are sulking.

He points to the front door and the departed Mr. Gibbs.

The telephone rings.

He goes to the desk, sits on the chair, and picks up the phone.

WITHERSPOON'S OFFICE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Witherspoon is sitting behind his desk, the telephone receiver to

his ear.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer is still at the desk, telephoning.

WITHERSPOON'S OFFICE - INTERIOR NIGHT

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

He puts the phone down.

WITHERSPOON'S OFFICE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Witherspoon puts his phone down

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer goes back to his aunts, still sitting on the window-seat.

He makes them stand up from the window-seat.

Abby nods.

He leaves them to pick up his hat.

Abby and Martha nod.

He puts the hat on his head. The hat is ostensibly to large for

him. He opens the front door

He was almost out, but he turns around.

Abby points to the hat, but can't talk.

Mortimer raises his eyes, and tears the had off his head

He throws the hat away, leaves and closes the door.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The cab driver is pacing back and forth on the sidewalk near his

taxi.

Mortimer comes running out of the house. The driver goes toward

him.

They run together and stop in front of the parked taxi. The driver

waves his arm.

Another taxi stops near the first one. The driver wants to open

the back door for Mortimer.

Mortimer climbs in the front of the taxi, next to the driver. The

taxi drives away, and the first driver remains on the street,

touching his cap.

He pats his own taxi, points his finger to it and waves for the

other taxi to come back.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Abby picks up Mr. Hoskins' hat. She brushes it with her hand and

gives it to Martha.

She crosses the room and, takes a brush on a cupboard near the

window-seat, and starts brushing the hat.

Abby brings two candlesticks on the table

Martha opens the cupboard, which is full of man's hats. She puts

Hoskins' hat with the others, and then closes the cupboard

Abby has lit the candles.

She crosses the room to the door to switch off the lights

Knocks at the front door. Through the frosted window-panels of the

door, we see the shadows of two men.

More knocks at the door. Martha peeks through the drapes of a

convenient window, a few steps above floor-level on the staircase.

Abby climbs the steps and comes near her sister to peek through

the drapes

The two shadows knock again.

The front door opens. The tallest of the two men, dressed in black

and wearing a large hat, comes in first. The other one, shorter

and hatless, follows him.

We get a close-up of the face of the tall man, actually Jonathan

Brewster. It's full of scars and it makes him look a bit like

Boris Karloff in the Frankenstein films. He looks around the room.

Doctor Einstein, who was waiting at the door, comes into the room,

and closes the door behind him.

He takes a small bottle from an inside pocket of his jacket, and

takes a sip at it.

He comes closer to the table.

Einstein pours some wine from the carafe in a glass. Jonathan

takes a glass already full on the table.

Abby gets down the few steps, followed by Martha.

The two men put their glasses down on the table

He takes his hat off.

She points to the door.

Jonathan turns around and look harshly at Einstein, who seems a

bit uneasy.

Jonathan grabs Einstein's collar and squeezes it.

Einstein has breathing problems because of Jonathan's squeezing.

Jonathan lets go of Einstein, who walks toward the two sisters.

Jonathan sits down.

Abby turns toward Martha, and then goes down the few last steps to

floor level.

She picks up the glasses on the table.

She goes to the kitchen with the glasses. Martha picks up the wine

carafe, to the disappointment of Dr. Einstein, and follows her

sister toward the kitchen. Before entering the kitchen, she puts

the carafe back on the shelf where it was before. She then closes

the kitchen door after her.

Close-up on the hands of Jonathan playing with a metallic brain-

teaser.

While talking, he has taken another sip from his bottle.

Einstein stands up.

Einstein mimes the breaking of a neck with his hands.

The two sisters are peeking in the room through a small

rectangular hole in the door of the kitchen.

He comes close to Jonathan and shows him on his face what he is

going to do to it.

The scene dissolves to :

JUDGE CULLMAN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY.

The judge is sitting, studying some papers. Mortimer is standing

at his side.

He drops the papers on the desk and starts declaiming.

Mortimer is very irritated by the Judge's erratic attitude. He

puts a pen in his hand.

Mortimer takes the pen from the Judge's hand and starts signing

the papers.

Mortimer dries the document, and shakes the Judge's hand.

He walks to the door of the office.

Mortimer comes back on his steps.

Mortimer comes back to the Judge's desk.

He goes back to the door.

He goes out, slamming the door behind him. The Judge looks

pensively at the door Mortimer just closed.

The scene dissolves to :

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The Brewster sister are sitting at the table with Doctor Einstein

and Jonathan. The dinner is finished, and both men are smoking.

The two sisters stands up from the table.

Teddy comes out of his room on the balcony. He is still wearing

his colonial costume. He has a book in his hand and a spare pith

helmet under his arm. He rushes down the stairs.

He stops suddenly in the staircase.

Jonathan and Einstein pretend they are standing up, but they

immediately sit back in their chairs.

Teddy comes down the last steps and goes toward the table.

He puts the book on the table, in front of Einstein. It's open on

a page with a picture.

Einstein looks at the picture.

He gives the spare helmet to Einstein.

Jonathan, who hadn't seemed to be much interested by Teddy's

conversation, suddenly looks up.

Einstein slightly raises the hand holding the cigarette to his

forehead.

Jonathan starts standing up with a very menacing face.

Jonathan sits back in his chair.

Einstein stands up and takes his helmet.

He opens the door to the cellar, then turns toward Einstein, taps

on the helmet Einstein is carrying and then on his own helmet.

Einstein puts the helmet on his head. The helmet is too large for

him, and gets down on his eyes.

Teddy starts going downstairs. Before following him, Einstein

turns around to the others.

He waves them goodbye and then follows Teddy downstairs.

Jonathan has remained seated, with both his aunts standing on the

other side of the table.

Jonathan stands up and looks menacingly at his aunts. While

talking, he moves closer to them. They look frightened.

Einstein appears at the door of the cellar.

He goes back down the stairs to the cellar.

He goes to the cellar door.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - CELLAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Einstein is on the staircase, halfway down to the cellar. On the

wall behind him, we see the shadow of Teddy digging.

He takes off his helmet. Jonathan joins him on the stairs.

Jonathan smiles and looks upstairs.

Einstein laughs.

He goes back up the stairs. Einstein follows him. The shadow of

Teddy keeps on digging.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Jonathan comes in through the cellar door, with Einstein following

behind him. His two aunts are still standing up in the room.

He crosses the room with Einstein following him.

He opens the front door, and gets out, still followed by Einstein.

Teddy enters by the cellar door.

From the table, he picks up the book he had shown to Dr. Einstein,

and starts looking at it.

He crosses his chest and spits on the floor. Then, he takes his

aunts in his arms.

Teddy crosses the room to the cellar door.

Teddy opens the door, and turns around.

Both sisters go to the window-seat and are ready to lift the lid,

when the drapes above the seat suddenly open wide, revealing a

very menacing Jonathan. The two sisters back off, frightened.

Jonathan slowly climbs in through the window, and stands up on the

window-seat.

He gets down from the window-seat. Then Einstein appears behind

the window, carrying a suitcase. Jonathan helps him to bring the

suitcase in the room.

Einstein, still outside the window, gives Jonathan another

suitcase.

Behind Jonathan, Einstein has come into the room and is closing

the window, and then the drapes.

Einstein takes the two suitcases and starts moving away.

Einstein slightly bows to Abby.

Einstein has already almost reached the balcony. Martha starts

climbing, with Jonathan behind her.

Everybody reaches the balcony. Einstein disappears at the end of

the balcony, and Martha enters her room. Jonathan turns around and

looks down at Abby.

Abby goes to the switch near the front door, and switches the

lights off. The room is completely dark.

Abby climbs the stairs, reaches the balcony, and walks slowly pass

Jonathan, who is still standing at the same place. Then, she

quickly enters the room she shares with her sister, who is holding

the door open for her.

Jonathan moves along the balcony and starts climbing the stairs to

the upper floor. He stops after a few steps, and sees the door of

his aunts' room opening slowly. Abby comes out.

Abby quickly goes back into the room and closes the door. Jonathan

resumes his climbing.

The camera moves down into total black darkness, and then into the

room, where we see some light underneath the cellar door. We hear

steps, and the door opens to reveal Teddy, still in his colonial

costume, but without the helmet. He stops a few seconds, then

starts crossing the room, only lit by light coming from underneath

the kitchen door. We hear the lid of the window-seat creaking, and

we guess Teddy has just opened it. Shuffling noises. Then we see

the shadow of Teddy carrying something apparently heavy. We hear

the cat screaming, and we guess Teddy must have stepped on its

tail. When Teddy comes into the light from the open door of the

cellar, we discover he is carrying a human body, which could only

be Mr. Hoskins' one taken from the window-seat. Teddy turns around

and starts going backward down the steps to the cellar. He stops a

few seconds to close the door. Then we hear noises of something

falling, and we guess that Teddy must have missed a step and

fallen all the way down to the cellar.

Black screen during one second.

Einstein is going down the staircase, lit only by a match he is

holding in his hand.

When he gets on floor level, he meets Jonathan.

He burns his finger and blows the match. The scene becomes

completely dark. We see only shadows.

Jonathan moves to the front door, opens it, stops to look around,

and then closes the door.

Einstein walks slowly in the room.

He bumps into something. We hear the lid of the window-seat

creaking several times.

Einstein light another match, and we discover he has fallen into

the open window-seat, where he is now lying

He slowly gets out of the seat.

Jonathan taps on the window. Einstein blows the match and opens

the window.

We see only shadows in the dark, but we guess Jonathan is handing

Mr. Spenalzo's corpse to Einstein, who will then put it in the

window-seat.

Knocking at the door.

Some more knocking. We hear the creaking of the lid of the window-

seat, and we guess Einstein is closing it.

The front door opens slowly, and Elaine enters the house.

We see the frightened face of Einstein.

Jonathan enters through the front door left open by Elaine, closes

it and locks it.

Einstein goes to the front door and switches the lights on.

Einstein has his little bottle in one hand, and, with the finger

of the other hand, he tries to explain to Jonathan that the corpse

is safely in the window-seat.

Jonathan looks at Einstein, and then goes across the room to look

around. He even moves the drapes of a window to look outside.

Jonathan keeps on checking around. He goes to the window above the

window-seat, and looks outside.

He spots an orphan shoe on the floor and picks it up.

Einstein tries to explain to Jonathan, without using words, that

the shoe belongs to the corpse in the window-seat.

He puts the shoe on the table, then lifts the tablecloth to look

underneath it.

Jonathan comes close to her and looks at her in such a strange way

that she starts walking backward.

Elaine stops walking backward.

They move to the front door, beside which Einstein is standing,

smiling. Jonathan unlocks the door. He opens it a few inches, but

stands in the way of Elaine, ready to got out.

Jonathan slams the door and locks it.

He walks menacingly toward her, and she starts walking backward

across the room.

Einstein starts walking behind Jonathan.

She tries to run away, but Jonathan grabs her arms and holds it

very firmly.

Teddy comes in through the cellar door. He has his helmet back on

his head and wears heavy working gloves.

He crosses the room and starts climbing the stairs. Both Jonathan

and Einstein are now holding Elaine.

Teddy stops a few steps from floor level.

He pulls out his imaginary sword and rushes up the stairs.

He rushes into his room and slams the door.

Elaine starts screaming. Jonathan holds a handkerchief over her

mouth. Einstein runs to the front door and switches the lights

off.

The cellar door is opened, and we see the shadows of the two men

dragging Elaine down to the cellar.

The lights are switched back on, and we see Abby and Martha on the

balcony, just coming out of their room. They are both dressed in

black funeral clothes.

Jonathan is coming alone out of the cellar.

She starts going down the stairs, followed by Martha.

Abby stops at the top of the stairs.

Knocking on the door, followed by the doorbell. The two sisters

starts going down the stairs.

Another doorbell. The two sisters are running downstairs.

Elaine rushes through the cellar door, screaming. She runs into

Martha's arms, followed by Einstein.

More knocking and ringing at the door. Abby goes and opens the

door. Mortimer enters the house..

Elaine rushes to Mortimer and holds him by the neck. He gets rid

of her.

He starts climbing the stairs and looks, surprised, at Martha.

He suddenly notices Jonathan's presence and stops mounting the

stairs.

Elaine grabs Mortimer's coat, and starts talking to him. So do

Abby and Martha on either side of him. Since the three of them are

talking together, it is impossible to understand what they say.

At the voice of Jonathan, the three women stop talking

Elaine grabs Mortimer's coat.

Mortimer walks closer to Jonathan.

Jonathan is ready to fight with his brother. Einstein grabs his

arm to stop him and Abby comes between them.

Elaine taps on Mortimer's arm.

He starts climbing the stairs.

He stops going upstairs

He comes back downstairs.

He crosses the room to sit on the window-seat.

Mortimer stands up and goes to Jonathan

Jonathan throws Mortimer's money on the floor. Mortimer tries to

step on it, but instead, he steps on Jonathan's foot.

Einstein pulls Jonathan's sleeve.

Mortimer bends down to look at Jonathan foot, then he touches his

legs.

Mortimer takes a fork on the table and stabs Jonathan's leg with

it.

Jonathan walks to the staircase, and starts going upstairs,

followed by Einstein. He stops a few steps before he reaches the

balcony.

He resumes his walking upstairs.

She falls in his arms.

Martha just found the shoe on the table and seems very intrigued

by it.

Abby looks at the shoe, and seems also very intrigued. Martha

whispers something to her.

Abby whispers back to Martha, who puts the shoe back on the table.

The two sisters move away.

Mortimer hardly listens to her, but catches the last word.

He sits at the desk and starts dialing on the telephone.

WITHERSPOON'S OFFICE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Witherspoon is sitting behind his desk, the telephone receiver to

his ear.

He puts an effervescent pill in a glass of water.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine is crying, standing near the desk, where Mortimer is still

on the telephone.

He raises his head to look at Elaine

WITHERSPOON'S OFFICE - INTERIOR NIGHT

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer seems surprised by the question.

Mortimer takes a piece of paper from the inside pockets of his

jacket and puts it on the desk. Elaine is still whining at his

side.

She walks away

The front door slams violently. Mortimer turns around.

He puts the phone down.

He stands up and runs across the room to the window-seat.

He kneels on the window-seat and looks through the open window.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Large shot of Reverend Harper's residence. Elaine enters the front

door, and slams the door behind her.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer is still looking through the open window.

He enters back into the room, and sits on the window-seat.

He looks at the seat.

He remains seated a few seconds in deep thought, then he gives a

quick look outside the window, stands up and starts lifting the

lid. The lid creaks. Mortimer seems very surprised by what he sees

inside the seat. He opens the lid completely and let it rest on

the bottom of the window.

He closes the lid and walks across the room toward the kitchen

door.

Abby, still in funeral clothes, enters the room through the

kitchen door.

He opens the window-seat wide and let the lid rest on the bottom

of the window.

Abby walks to the window-seat and looks inside, surprised.

Mortimer starts looking around the room.

Mortimer suddenly realizes the corpse could be a friend of

Jonathan. He quickly closes the lid.

She walks back to the kitchen. Mortimer catches her.

She enters the kitchen.

Mortimer starts dancing around the room. Then he hears a door

closing on the balcony, and he sits on the window-seat. We see

Jonathan on the balcony. He starts going downstairs. Mortimer goes

toward him.

Abby comes in through the kitchen door, followed by Martha.

Jonathan and Mortimer both rushes across the room and sit on the

window-seat

He stops when he realizes that Jonathan is sitting with him. He

suddenly understands the situation, and shows a broad smile to his

brother. He then stands up

Jonathan's face shows that he is no more so sure of himself.

He kisses her on the forehead.

Jonathan doesn't move from the window-seat.

He goes to the desk.

Mortimer picks up the phone.

Jonathan puts his hand to his pocket, to take his gun. The

doorbell rings and we see a policeman's shadow through the frosted

glass. Jonathan stands up and Abby rushes to the door.

She opens the door on O'Hara. He is smiling and he's got his stick

in his hand.

He looks around.

He starts to walk back out, but Mortimer stops him.

She closes the door behind him.

They shake hands, both smiling.

They all enter the kitchen, laughing, and leaving Jonathan alone

in the room. Mortimer lets them in, but comes back into the

sitting-room, closing the kitchen door behind him.

He crosses the room toward Jonathan

He opens the lid of the window-seat. But O'Hara comes into the

room and Mortimer quickly closes the lid.

Mortimer moves him back to the kitchen.

Mortimer closes the door behind O'Hara and turns toward Jonathan.

He enters the kitchen, and closes the door behind him. Einstein

arrives silently behind Jonathan and taps on this shoulder.

Jonathan turns quickly around. He then goes to the kitchen door

and comes back to Einstein.

He goes toward the kitchen door. Einstein catches up with him.

Jonathan takes Einstein's hand, twists it and brings Einstein down

on the floor.

Jonathan releases Einstein's hand, who stands up to massage his

hand.

Einstein takes the suitcase and walks to the cellar. Jonathan

opens the lid of the window-seat.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

In the kitchen, the Brewster sisters are moving around the room,

preparing food on the table. Both men are standing up near the

table. O'Hara, without his cap on his head, has a sandwich in his

hand.

O'Hara picks up a cup on the table.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The door to the cellar is open. Einstein rushes up from the

cellar. He looks a bit frightened.

Jonathan, who was looking down into the open window-seat, stands

up.

Jonathan closes the window-seat, and walks toward the cellar.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

O'Hara is explaining something to Mortimer.

Mortimer, who had just heard the creaking of the lid of the

window-seat, turns back toward the policeman.

Before he can finish his sentence, Mortimer is already out of the

room.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer enters the empty sitting-room. He goes to the window-

seat, opens it and talks to the corpse.

He closes the lid, kneels on the seat and looks through the open

window.

Jonathan enters from the cellar, followed by Einstein.

Mortimer turns around and looks, surprised, at his brother. Then

he comes into the room

He goes to the kitchen door, which he opens slightly.

Mortimer comes back in the middle of the room.

O'Hara comes into the room from the kitchen.

He starts going back into the kitchen, but Mortimer stops him.

O'Hara puts his cap back on his head.

He escorts O'Hara to the front door.

O'Hara starts moving toward the cellar, but Mortimer stops him.

He opens the door and starts going out.

Mortimer, who was pushing O'Hara outside, suddenly slaps his

forehead with his hand.

Mortimer closes the door.

He goes to the desk and picks up his papers. He then turns to

Jonathan and Einstein, still standing by the cellar door.

He taps on his papers.

He starts running upstairs.

Mortimer stops and starts running downstairs, and then to the

front door.

He goes out and closes the door. Einstein takes a sip at his

bottle.

The two sisters come out of the kitchen.

They stop when they see Jonathan and Einstein.

Jonathan opens the lid of the window-seat.

The two men bend down to take the corpse out of the window-seat.

The two men stand up and look at the sisters. Jonathan comes

closer to them.

The two men look at each other. Jonathan seems the most surprised.

They turn to Einstein, who has seated himself and is laughing his

head off.

He stands up.

Jonathan grabs Einstein by his shirt.

They both starts counting on their fingers.

He mimes the gesture of one having his throat cut.

Both sisters seem very happy by Einstein's statement. They smile.

He looks menacingly at his two aunts, who do not smile anymore.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer is walking along the gate of the churchyard, dragging Dr.

Gilchrist with him. Gilchrist is trying to tie his necktie while

walking. Apparently, Mortimer didn't let him dress completely when

he took him out of his home.

They stop walking when they hear hymns sung by the Brewster

sisters.

Mortimer looks embarrassed : he doesn't want to explain to the

doctor who Hoskins is.

He moves the doctor to the entrance of the churchyard.

He helps him finish tying his necktie.

He moves away to the house, and passes near the taxi, still

waiting.

He hasn't stop walking, and goes into the house. The driver, who

had been following him, stops near the entrance of the house.

A quick shot of Dr. Gilchrist waiting, frozen and slightly

frightened.

Then back on the entrance of the house, near which the driver is

still standing. Teddy and Mortimer come out of the house. Teddy is

back in his President Roosevelt costume.

The driver catches up with them.

Mortimer and Teddy don't stop walking. The driver follows them.

The two men reach the place where Dr. Gilchrist is waiting.

Teddy seems very happy to meet Dr. Gilchrist, and shakes his hands

vigorously.

He bows slightly.

He shakes his hand again, then puts his arm around the doctor's

shoulders and moves away with him into the churchyard.

The doctor looks back at Mortimer, seeming a little frightened.

Mortimer remains alone, with the papers in his hand. We still hear

the hymns sung by the Brewster sisters in the background.

He sits down on a tombstone.

Reverse shot on Reverend Harper's house. Elaine opens the window

of her room.

Back to Mortimer seated on his tombstone. A little further behind

him, we see Teddy and the doctor talking.

He stands up.

He runs to Elaine's window.

The cab driver looks at the scene with intrigued eyes.

Mortimer is now outside Elaine's window.

Mortimer takes her in his arms.

He moves slightly away from her.

She goes slightly back into her room.

We hear very clearly the Brewster sisters singing their hymns.

Elaine bends out of her window to hug Mortimer.

Medium shot on the doctor and Teddy walking arm in arm among the

tombstones.

Back to Elaine's room window. The young couple is still talking on

either side of the window.

He turns around to listen to his aunts singing their hymns.

Mortimer hesitates a little and then gives a passionate kiss to

Elaine.

Back to Teddy and the doctor. Teddy is vigorously shaking the

doctor's hand.

He walks away, leaving the doctor very shaken by the experience.

The doctor runs to Mortimer, still outside Elaine's window and

kissing her passionately. The doctor clears loudly his throat to

attract Mortimer's attention.

Mortimer suddenly realizes what the doctor is talking about.

He pulls the papers from his jacket pocket, and gives them to the

doctor.

Elaine suddenly slams her window down... on Mortimer's fingers !

Mortimer yells because of the pain. The doctor looks up from the

papers. Elaine also shut the inside shade down, shutting the room

completely from the outside world.

Mortimer blows on his hurt fingers, then grabs the papers from the

doctor and runs away.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on the empty window-seat, where just remains Mr.

Spenalzo's hat.

From the open cellar door, Martha is coming out, followed by Abby.

They are still dressed in their funeral clothes.

Mortimer comes rushing into the room with the papers in his hand.

He blows on the papers to dry the ink of the signature.

Mortimer starts running upstairs.

He quickly get back downstairs

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - CELLAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Einstein just finished working, and he is cleaning the bottom of

his pants. We notice he is wearing Mr. Spenalzo's shoes. A shovel

is resting on the wall near him.

He stretches himself

Jonathan walks behind him, carrying a shovel. He puts the shovel

down against the wall and start mounting the stairs

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer is trying to calm his aunts down

He starts mounting the stairs.

He reaches the balcony.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - CELLAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Jonathan is standing on the bottom of the cellar staircase.

He goes back down in the cellar toward Einstein, who has his

bottle in his hand.

He sits down on the bottom steps of the stairs.

He mimes the breaking of a neck with his fingers, and then takes a

sip from his bottle

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Teddy comes out of his room on the balcony, in his President

Roosevelt costume. He takes his bugle to his mouth, ready to play

it. Mortimer comes out of the room and lowers the bugle.

Mortimer puts the papers in front of his eyes.

Teddy takes the papers and looks at them.

He folds the papers.

He starts to move back to his room. Mortimer stops him.

Teddy looks at his costume.

He goes back into his room and closes the door. Einstein appears

at the bottom of the stairs.

Einstein climbs the stairs very rapidly. He takes Mortimer by the

sleeve and whispers to him.

He tries to get rid of Einstein's hand on his sleeve.

We hear the bugle playing the first notes of Beethoven's fifth

symphony.

He knocks on Teddy's door. The papers are slid under the door.

Mortimer bends down to pick them up.

He starts going downstairs. Einstein follows him and takes his

sleeve again.

Mortimer gets rid of Einstein's hands on his sleeves.

He takes his sleeve again and tries to move him to the front door.

They've reached the front door. Mortimer takes Einstein's hand out

of his sleeve.

He mimes the cutting of his own throat, and takes Mortimer's hand

to throw him out.

He opens the door to throw him out. He pats him on the behind to

move him, and discover the shape of the bottle under his hand.

He takes the bottle out of Einstein's pocket

He tries to get his bottle back, but Mortimer holds on it.

He moves away to the table, with the bottle in his hand. Einstein

joins his hand in a praying gesture.

Mortimer pours some of the schnapps in a glass.

Einstein slams the front door with a very nervous punch, and walks

toward Mortimer. He mumbles incomprehensible words, probably in

German.

Mortimer is drinking. He lowers his glass.

He looks at his watch.

Behind Mortimer, the cellar door opens silently and Jonathan

enters slowly into the room, without Mortimer noticing him.

Mortimer goes to a wooden armchair and sits down in it. He puts

his glass on the table.

He keeps on laughing while talking.

Close-up of Jonathan's face, smiling.

Jonathan looks in the direction of the window... and the curtain

cord.

Behind the seated Mortimer, Jonathan is silently walking to the

window.

Mortimer turns slightly on his chair, but without taking his eyes

off Einstein, and, of course, without looking at his brother

behind him, quietly cutting the curtain cords with a jack-knife.

Medium shot on Jonathan cutting the curtain cords.

Jonathan folds the jack-knife and puts it in his pocket. He

prepares the cords he has just cut. Einstein takes a napkin on the

table.

Jonathan is now just behind Mortimer's chair, with the cord ready

in his hands.

He bursts out laughing... But only for two seconds, because

Jonathan ties up his arm to the armchair from behind, and Einstein

shoves the napkin in his open mouth. Einstein then helps Jonathan

to tie Mortimer's legs to the legs of the armchair. Then, with the

help of a knife, he puts all the napkin in Mortimer's mouth.

Fade out, and then fade in on the same scene a few moments later.

The lights have been dimmed. Mortimer is completely tied on the

chair, and the gag is tied around his head.

Jonathan is lighting candles on the table.

He opens his instruments case. We see the surgery instruments

shining in the candles light.

Close-up on Mortimer's very frightened face.

Einstein sits down near the table. He seems depressed at the sight

of his surgery instruments.

Jonathan takes a small phial from the inside pocket of his jacket,

opens it, smells it and closes it, and puts it back in his pocket.

He takes a curved forceps from the case and plays with it.

Close-up on Mortimer's frightened face.

Einstein wipes his face with a napkin.

Jonathan takes a scalpel from the case and feels the sharpness of

the blade.

Einstein takes a bottle on the table and brings it to his mouth.

Unfortunately, the bottle is empty.

Jonathan takes a pair of surgery gloves from the box and puts them

on.

Einstein stands up.

Einstein takes his jacket off. He is almost crying.

A glint of hope appears in Mortimer's eyes at the mention of his

aunts' wine.

Einstein runs across the room to the shelves where the carafe of

poisoned wine has been put away.

He comes back to the table with the carafe and glasses.

Einstein gives a glass to Jonathan. Mortimer, who recognized the

carafe, is smiling behind his gag. Jonathan smells the glass.

Einstein has his glass almost to his lips, when Jonathan stops

him.

They clink their glass in front of Mortimer's face. Einstein

raises his glass before drinking.

Teddy suddenly comes out of his room and plays his bugle very

loudly.

Both Jonathan and Einstein drop their glass on the floor.

Teddy then goes back into his room and slams the door. The grand-

father clock chimes once.

Mortimer seems very disappointed. He moves back and forth in his

chair, moaning.

They starts getting the instruments out of the case.

At the front door, we see the shadow of a policeman behind the

frosted glass. He rings the doorbell.

Jonathan and Einstein stop what they were doing. Einstein closes

the case and puts it under the table. He also puts all the

instruments lying on the table on the floor, behind the case.

Knocking on the door. The door being open, O'Hara enters the room.

He spots Jonathan and Einstein.

He finds the switch by the door, and switches the lights on. He

goes to the stairs and starts mounting them, when he hears

Mortimer moaning. He goes down and walks toward Mortimer.

O'Hara is surprised to find Mortimer tied up on his chair. He

points his stick to Jonathan.

He walks away with his jacket in his hands.

Mortimer is moving and moaning on his chair. He tries to explain

by movements of his face that he would like to have his gag taken

off.

Behind O'Hara, Einstein starts mounting the stairs, and Jonathan

stands up at the bottom of them.

He puts his hands to Mortimer's face to take off his gag.

Einstein runs upstairs, followed by Jonathan.

Suddenly, O'Hara removes his hands and smiles broadly.

He takes his jacket off.

On the stairs behind O'Hara, Jonathan takes his jack-knife out of

his pocket and opens it.

Einstein, who has seen the knife, tries to stop Jonathan. But

Jonathan keeps on walking slowly downstairs.

Close-up on Jonathan's hand holding the knife, the blade of which

is shining in the light.

Mortimer stares at the knife

Actually, Mortimer's eyes are trying to attract O'Hara's attention

to Jonathan, just behind him now.

Einstein tries to stop Jonathan, but Jonathan pushes him away.

Einstein takes off one of his shoes, and hits Jonathan very hard

on the head with it. Jonathan falls on the floor.

O'Hara turns around and sees Jonathan lying on the last steps of

the stairs.

O'Hara looks at Jonathan's face.

He kneels beside Jonathan's body, and O'Hara returns to Mortimer.

Knocks at the door. O'Hara turns to Einstein.

Einstein peeks through the drapes to have a look at the outside of

the front door. He rushes to Jonathan.

Einstein tries to wake up Jonathan, but doesn't succeed. He picks

up his shoe and rushes upstairs.

He takes out his gun and points it at the door. Brophy and another

cop, officer Saunders, come in. When they see O'Hara's gun

pointing at them, they raise their arms. O'Hara puts his gun back

in his holster and welcomes his colleagues.

He starts to untie Mortimer.

Brophy goes to the telephone and starts dialing.

He sees Jonathan lying on the steps.

O'Hara bends on Jonathan and shakes him

He puts the phone down and turns to O'Hara, who has succeeded in

waking up Jonathan and getting him on his feet. Jonathan stares at

Brophy. He thinks Brophy is talking about him.

Mortimer looks at his left hand, which has just been freed by

Saunders.

Brophy and O'Hara each take one arm of Jonathan.

Mortimer, who had his hand and legs untied by Saunders but is

still gagged and has his chest still tied on the armchair, moans

and moves excitedly on his seat.

Mortimer jumps on his chair and try to scream through his gag.

Since he cannot succeed to get off the chair, he stands up, still

gagged and tied to the back of the chair and rushes to Brophy,

carrying the armchair with him.

Mortimer walks between Brophy and Jonathan, and tries to say

something to Brophy through his gag. Saunders, behind Mortimer,

keeps on untying him.

Mortimer is still trying to talk through his gag to O'Hara and

Brophy, and moves excitedly around the two cops. He moves so much

that Saunders has stopped trying to untie him.

He grabs O'Hara's hand and drags him to the cellar door.

Mortimer, still gagged, and still carrying his armchair like a

backpack, tries to follow them, but Saunders moves him away.

Mortimer runs round the table to try again to join the party going

down to the cellar, with Saunders running behind him.

Mortimer bumps violently into Brophy, who tries to push him away.

Mortimer then goes to O'Hara, but O'Hara doesn't realize Mortimer

is coming to him to prevent him going down to the cellar.

He pushes Mortimer away from him.

Hearing that, Jonathan screams, jumps on O'Hara and puts his hand

around his throat.

The three cops and Jonathan starts fighting. A fist comes out of

the battle and hits Mortimer on the chin. He staggers back to the

center of the room, and falls on the floor.

We see Einstein cautiously appearing on the landing of the upper

floor of the house. He slowly comes down the stairs.

Down in the sitting-room, the fight goes on. Saunders falls on his

back and Jonathan jumps on him. O'Hara, in his turn, jumps on

Jonathan. Behind them, Mortimer is slowly getting up and getting

rid of his ropes. Apparently, his fall has completely untied him.

Einstein, watching this heated fight, moves back to the upper

floor.

Mortimer gets rid of his gag, and slowly moves away from the

battle.

Mortimer climbs up a few steps on the staircase and sits down on a

step.

Mortimer, still seated on the step, quietly gets his cigarette

case from his pocket, takes a cigarette, puts the case back in his

pocket, while we hears the noise of the battle still going on down

below.

He takes a matchbox from another pocket and lights his cigarette.

Behind Mortimer, on the wall, we see the shadows of the men

fighting. Then we see various objects falling around Mortimer.

O'Hara is projected on the wall below the staircase, near the

place where Mortimer is still quietly seated.

Jonathan breaks a chair on his back. O'Hara staggers slightly.

He goes back in the battle. Jonathan gives him a heavy punch and

O'Hara falls in the window-seat, closing the lid over himself in

his fall.

Back to Mortimer, still quietly smoking his cigarette, seated on

the same step. He takes papers out of his pocket.

O'Hara cautiously lifts the lid of the window-seat, but seeing a

chair flying in his direction, he slams it back shut. The chair

hits the window-seat and breaks off in small pieces.

Back to Mortimer on his steps. He puts the papers back in his

pocket.

He puts his hand through the banister of the staircase to take the

telephone on the desk, but he cannot reach it.

At this moment, Jonathan comes smashing on the wall below the

staircase. He grabs the telephone and lifts it to throw it on the

cops, bringing it within easy reach of Mortimer's hand.

Mortimer picks up the telephone handset, and starts dialing.

Jonathan is watching the cops around him, and he is not looking at

all at his brother behind him. Without thinking about it, he lifts

the telephone a little higher.

Jonathan suddenly realizes what Mortimer is doing and turns his

head toward him. Brophy immediately comes behind him and hits him

with his stick. Jonathan starts falling, and Mortimer has to pick

up the telephone not to loose it.

Saunders comes on the other side of Jonathan and hits him with his

stick.

Jonathan falls heavily on the floor.

O'Hara slowly lifts the lid of the window-seat.

Saunders bends on the motionless body of Jonathan

The doorbell rings, and we see the shadow of a hatted man through

the frosted glass. Mortimer looks at the door.

The visitor enters. It's Lieutenant Rooney, a plain-cloth

policeman. He closes the door behind him. Both Brophy and Saunders

stand at attention. Mortimer puts the phone receiver back on its

hook. O'Hara comes out of the window-seat, and, seeing his

superior, stands at attention. Rooney walks to the body of

Jonathan.

O'Hara comes out of the window-seat to join his colleagues.

Saunders turns Jonathan over and both the lieutenant and Brophy

bends on the face of Jonathan.

Rooney stands up and looks at Brophy with an ironical smile.

Still seated on his step, Mortimer smiles.

Teddy comes out of his room, with his bugle under his arm, and

walks downstairs

Teddy gives his bugle to Mortimer.

He joins the group of policemen.

Saunders and Brophy both salutes Teddy. Teddy salutes them back.

Rooney raises his hand to salute, but rapidly puts it down with a

disgusted expression on his face.

Brophy and Saunders lift Jonathan and carry him to the kitchen.

He follows the two cops. But Rooney stops him.

He follows the two cops in the kitchen. Rooney goes to the table,

takes the carafe and smells it. Mortimer watches him, still seated

on his step.

Rooney puts the carafe back on the table, and looks at Mortimer.

Mortimer stands up and goes down the steps toward the lieutenant.

He takes the papers from his pocket and show them to Rooney.

Rooney looks at the documents.

Rooney stops, looks around with a suspicious eye and takes his hat

off.

Rooney puts the papers down.

Rooney shows the papers to Mortimer.

Mortimer looks at the papers with horror in his face and takes

them back.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The cab driver is seated with O'Hara and Witherspoon standing on

either side of him.

He walks to the entrance of the house. O'Hara stays with the cab

driver.

Witherspoon comes back a few steps.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Witherspoon enters the room. We hear voices talking excitedly. And

we see people in some sort of a large alcove at the back of the

sitting-room, between the cellar-door and the grandfather clock.

Through the hole in the kitchen door, we see Brophy talking.

Witherspoon slams the door.

In the alcove, Mortimer, Rooney and Teddy are having an argument.

Mortimer still has the bugle in his hand.

Rooney holds the document for Teddy, who has a pen in his hand.

Saunders approaches his lieutenant.

He moves away back to the kitchen.

Mortimer gives a quick look at Rooney.

He signs the paper under Rooney's supervision.

He runs to the table in the middle of the sitting-room, where

Witherspoon is standing. He goes around the table to shake hands

with him.

Mortimer looks surprised by Witherspoon's answer. Then he looks

also a bit horrified.

He gets a booklet out of his pocket.

When Mortimer sees Witherspoon flipping the pages of his booklet,

a slightly frightened look comes to his face.

Rooney, who was checking the documents signed by Teddy, turns

around.

Rooney comes toward them with the documents in his hand.

Witherspoon looks at Rooney with a smile.

Witherspoon takes Rooney's arm. Rooney pushes him away.

The two men shake hands, and Rooney gives the papers to

Witherspoon.

Teddy joins them.

Teddy starts walking away, but he stops suddenly and gives

Witherspoon a suspicious look.

Teddy looks at Witherspoon with a disgusted face.

Teddy shakes hands with Witherspoon.

Witherspoon looks at Teddy walking away with a sweet smile.

Teddy starts going upstairs and he meets Abby and Martha coming

down. They're dressed back in their usual clothes. Teddy shakes

hands with them.

For the last time, Teddy takes out his imaginary sword, points it

forward and rushes upstairs.

He gets into his room and slams the door behind him. Witherspoon

looks a bit surprised, and Mortimer holds the hands of the

grandfather clock. Abby joins him

Witherspoon looks at the scene with slightly anxious eyes.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine walks across the churchyard toward the Brewster's house.

She is wearing a coat over her nightdress.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Abby and Martha are talking with Witherspoon.

Both sisters turn toward Rooney.

Mortimer smiles broadly.

Mortimer comes very close to Witherspoon, and tries, by mime only,

to induce Witherspoon to take his aunts.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine has now reached the Brewster house and opens a window. We

hear Lieutenant Rooney's voice.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Rooney is talking to the Brewster sisters.

Mortimer seems a bit worried.

Witherspoon, who was looking at something on the table, looks up,

very surprised by what Abby just said.

Behind the window and the drapes, where she is hiding and

eavesdropping, Elaine looks very surprised too.

Rooney smiles a little, and then becomes suddenly very serious.

Mortimer blows the bugle very loudly. Rooney puts his hands on his

ears. Then Mortimer rushes upstairs, yelling :

Mortimer reaches the balcony. Teddy comes out of his room, looking

intrigued

Teddy taps the side of his head with his finger, goes back into

his room, and closes the door. Mortimer tries to indicate by mime

that his aunts are crazy

Very quick shot of Elaine peeking behind the drapes

Saunders comes to his lieutenant.

He moves away.

He sings the last words, trying again to mime to Rooney that his

two aunts are crazy.

Mortimer walks downstairs.

He whispers to Rooney from the staircase.

Rooney doesn't seem to understand what Mortimer is trying to tell

him. But Witherspoon is beginning to understand.

He resumes his walking downstairs.

While singing, Mortimer makes signs to Rooney and Witherspoon.

And, finally, Rooney understand what Mortimer is trying to tell

him, that his aunts are crazy.

He looks at Mortimer. Mortimer stops clowning, and becomes very

serious.

Witherspoon takes the papers out of the inside pocket of his coat.

Rooney, absent-mindedly, is ready to go down to the cellar, but he

checks himself and goes toward the kitchen instead.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Elaine opens a large trapdoor opening on a stairway going down to

the cellar. She starts going down that passage.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Einstein walks on the balcony, carrying a suitcase, and starts

going downstairs. In the room, we can guess that the two sisters

are signing the papers.

Martha and Abby are seated at the table, signing the papers.

Witherspoon and Mortimer, standing besides them, are helping them.

Einstein has reached the bottom of the stairs and he is sneaking

out through the front door.

Einstein turns around.

Einstein drops his suitcase by the front door, and comes to the

table.

Einstein signs the paper Mortimer gives him. Meanwhile, Rooney and

Saunders are coming out of the kitchen and crossing the room.

Einstein leaves the table, and almost bumps into Saunders, who is

brushing his uniform. He listen to the description of himself that

Rooney is repeating from his colleague at the police station.

He puts the phone back on its hook.

Witherspoon slaps Einstein on the back, and Einstein starts

raising his arms.

He shakes Einstein's hand and slaps his back. Einstein cannot

believe his luck. He smiles and rushes to the door.

Einstein picks up his suitcase, and rushes out of the door, and

closes it behind him.

Teddy appears on the balcony, all dressed up in his colonial

costume, but without the helmet.

Mortimer picks up a spoon on the table and gives it to

Witherspoon.

Witherspoon looks on the table, where the bugle is, and then at

Mortimer. Mortimer makes a little agreement sign.

Witherspoon picks up the bugle, and starts walking upstairs. He

stops after a few steps, as if he were hesitating.

Mortimer and Witherspoon are exchanging faces. Martha and Abby are

whispering into each other's ear.

He kisses Abby.

He kisses Martha.

Mortimer, who had a happy smile on his face until now, suddenly

looks very surprised.

He almost falls backward. Both sisters catch him up.

He yells several whooping cries and then kisses them both very

affectionately. Then he rushes to the window, jumps into the open

window-seat, opens the drapes and yells outside.

We hear Elaine screaming. Elaine comes running upstairs from the

cellar.

Rooney and Saunders come out of the kitchen.

Mortimer tries to make her shut up, and succeeds only by kissing

her very passionately on the mouth.

Elaine tries to put a few words but Mortimer keeps on kissing her.

With his mouth still pressed on her, he lifts her and carries her

across the room to the front door.

He opens the door and rushes outside. The two sisters come to the

door, waving goodbyes to him.

The two sisters burst laughing and turn to the door.

BREWSTER RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Mortimer comes out of the house, still carrying Elaine with his

mouth pressed on her. O'Hara and the cab driver, who were chatting

together, jump up and look at the strange couple. Mortimer, still

carrying Elaine, moves along the house, with the cab driver

following him.

Elaine, eventually, comes out of her hysteria. She puts her arms

around Mortimer, and talks to him in a very sweet voice.

They kiss very tenderly. The cab driver comes closer to the couple

and looks at their closed-eyes faces.

Mortimer turns to him.

The cab driver realizes his mistake and checks himself.

He laughs and lifts a very surprised Elaine on his shoulder, and

runs through the churchyard towards Reverend Harper's house.

The cab driver puts his hands to his face, then takes them away

and yells :

With one hand on his cap, and the other hand extended on his side,

he mimes a coffeepot.

In the background, we see Mortimer entering the house, with Elaine

still on his shoulder. The cab driver drops his arms and walks

back to his taxi.

FADE OUT TO BLACK SCREEN

END CREDITS

Both the words The End and the credits are written in white

letters on a cartoon representing a village with a sorceress

flying on a broomstick above the village.

