FADE IN:

Snow flakes falling against a black sky.

CAMERA FOLLOWS THEM DOWNWARD TO REVEAL

EXT. MILWAUKEE BAR - NIGHT

It looks like a warm cozy place out of "It's A Wonderful

Life". The window is flocked with fake snow, and hung with

colorful Christmas lights, wreaths and ornaments.

CAMERA PUSHES SLOWLY IN

INT. MILWAUKEE BAR - NIGHT

CAMERA CONTINUES MOVEMENT IN SAME DIRECTION

The barman, wiping down the counter, gives an occasional

semi-furtive glance toward the far end of the bar.

Other patrons chat near the bartender and also give occasional

glances toward the far end of the bar. It is early evening --

happy hour -- and the clientele is well-heeled and sociable.

A customer says something interrogative to the bartender,

who looks down the bar and shrugs.

REVERSE - CAMERA CONTINUES MOVEMENT (Notes the combination

of the HIGH ANGLE and the tilt of Santa's head keep his face

from being clearly revealed in this scene).

Sitting alone at the far end of the bar, given a wide berth

by the other customers, a man (WILLIE) stares morosely into

his drink. The drink is clearly not his first.

He wears a red velvet suit and red velvet hat with a white

pom-pom. He has shiny black boots with red velvet trim. His

long white beard is not real and is in fact pulled down below

his chin to facilitate drinking. It exposes heavy black

stubble.

Swaying slightly, he raises the drink to the vicinity of his

lips. Once it gets close he must navigate it in with some

effortful coordination. He takes a sip and sets the drink

carefully back down.

After another long, staring, morose beat, he starts weeping.

It is loud, dolorous, and unself-conscious.

EXT. ALLEYWAY BEHIND THE MILWAUKEE BAR - NIGHT

Santa staggers out the back door...

CAMERA FOLLOWS BEHIND HIM still hiding his face.

Santa gets about ten feet, then pauses and leans with one

hand against the alley wall, uses the other to hold his pom-

pom out of the way, and vomits.

Having vomited, and spit, he staggers off toward the street.

SUPERED TITLE OF THE MOVIE:

INT. SANTA ORIENTATION ROOM - DAY

An upbeat woman TRAINER presides over a half-dozen SANTAS

sitting at school desks. On the blackboard the Trainer is

writing out the sixth "Santa Commandment".

1) No alcoholic beverages before or during your shift.

2) Know the names of your reindeer.

3) Do not smoke in your costume.

4) No swearing.

5) Absolutely no flirting.

6) Coax a smile from the child.

7)

8)

9)

As she talks we

ANGLE FROM BEHIND

one of the Santas (WILLIE). His HAND reaches into a boot and

pulls out a pint of Smirnoff. We FOLLOW UP IN C.U. to see

this hand pour a few ounces into a can of Coke he holds behind

his desk.

WILLIE'S FACE

as he finishes off the can of Coke to REVEAL: his eyes colder

than those of a dead fish.

WILLIE'S FACE. His expression reads: "Please kill me".

EXT. DOWNTOWN MILWAUKEE SHOPPING DISTRICT - NIGHT

Wintry night. Ray Coniff's "Jolly Ole Saint Nicholas" scores

views of the downtown blanketed in snow and decorated for

the holiday. It is Christmas Eve, and the sidewalks throng

with people rushing to do their last-minute shopping.

A MOTHER and her two absurdly bundled CHILDREN emerge from

the crowd.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - TOP FLOOR - NIGHT

Mother and children crest the escalator to emerge on the top

floor.

The older child is pointing at a prop gate with a candy-cane

letter sign: TO SANTA'S WORKSHOP.

He runs and Mom shoos her younger child to join him.

The boys cross the threshold of the gate and their eyes filled

with wonder.

A winding path cuts through a flocked and candy-striped

forest, past a workshop filled with mannequin-elves busily

cobbling Christmas toys, and finally arriving at...

Santa, seated on his throne like a scarlet Messiah. The

younger child staggers forward to join the line of a hundred

other leaky-nosed worshippers awaiting an audience.

At the head of the line the next waiting child is escorted

to Santa's chair by a smiling tiny man (MARCUS) dressed as

an elf.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - MAIN FLOOR - NIGHT

An imitation BACK STREET BOYS quintet sings Christmas Carols.

Grown-ups busy themselves draining their wallets as a VOICE

comes over the intercom:

Purposeful haste eddies the crowd.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - SANTA'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT

C.U. PHOTO PRINTING OUT

The Photo Elf takes the digital photo and presents it to a

MOM.

He takes her credit card as CAMERA MOVES OVER TO SANTA. On

his knee is a YOUNG BOY who whispers excitedly in his ear.

Young Boy climbs off and runs away, A BRATTY KID jumps up on

Santa's lap.

Santa pushes him off his lap and shoves him on his way.

Santa turns to his Elf,

The Elf nods as he peels off a pointed prosthetic ear. Santa

pulls a fifth of Old Grandad from the cushions of his throne.

He takes a swig.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - NIGHT - LATER

With the sound of closing circuits, banks of lights

systematically shut down in the various departments of the

now empty store.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - EXIT AREA - NIGHT

Downstairs the last of the store employees file out the door

past an old SECURITY GUARD. Eventually Santa emerges.

The guard chuckles.

The Security Guard heads for a panel near the doorway and

punches a key labeled ARM. An L.E.D. readout labeled "ARMING"

counts down from 30 seconds.

The guard exits the store, locks the door and heads home.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - SANTA'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT

A large Teddy bear sits under a Christmas tree.

Suddenly - it moves, bolting upright and sprinting from the

room.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - DOWNSTAIRS - NIGHT

The alarm continues to count down -- 15... 14...

The Teddy bear slides down the space between the railing of

the escalators. Landing on its feet, it barrels toward the

door.

10... 9...

The Teddy bear scrambles for the door, crashing into

everything in its path.

7... 6...

Running past a clothing display, it rips the arm off a

mannequin without breaking stride.

5... 4...

It skids to a stop at the base of the alarm box, too short

to reach the controls.

2...

It raises the mannequin arm, using the pointed finger on its

hand to press the "CANCEL" key on the keypad.

Mission accomplished, the teddy bear rips off its head to

reveal his true identity: Santa's Elf -- in civilian life

known as MARCUS SKIDMORE. He is covered in sweat and panting

like an asthmatic.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - SHIPPING AREA - NIGHT

A hasp flips open and Marcus swings the door wide to reveal

a beer-guzzling Santa-in-the-off-season known as WILLIE T.

SOKE. He finishes the beer, crushes the can and drops it to

his feet next to eight more empties.

Marcus sneers at him as he lumbers past:

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - SANTA'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT

Marcus and Willie tear open the prop presents on the workshop

set and remove several tools.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - NIGHT

Marcus reaches into jewelry cases and removes a few particular

items. He drops them into a stock cart then checks a typed

list before moving on.

Marcus pushes the cart through the store, gathering an odd

array of items that range from furs to gowns to shoes to

makeup.

INT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - BACK OFFICES - NIGHT

Marcus arrives outside a doorway and looks in to see Willie

manning a large water drill and putting it to work on the

store's vault.

The drill suddenly revs higher, getting Willie's attention.

Marcus moves closer as Willie pulls back the drill on the

track. He places a screwdriver into the exposed lock assembly

and hits it with a sledgehammer.

Suddenly, the door swings open and bundled cash spills to

the floor. Both men are impressed.

EXT. MILWAUKEE DEPARTMENT STORE - SHIPPING DOCK - NIGHT

Marcus and Willie wheel out two carts and roll them through

the open doors of a waiting van. As they slam the doors --

INT. VAN - NIGHT

Willie settles on the rear bench as Marcus gets into the

passenger seat next to his Pillipina Mail-order wife of

several years, LOIS, who is dressed in expensively ugly

clothes, and whose mouth is ever down-turned in pruney

distaste.

EXT. DOWNTOWN MILWAUKEE STREET - NIGHT

The van speeds away through the Christmas Eve night and

disappears into the distance, like the down of a thistle.

CAMERA ROCKETS INTO C.U. of An alarm clock ringing with a

jolt.

INT. RATBAG APARTMENT - DAY

Willie, in bed, blearily wakes to the insistent alarm. He

tries to turn it off, but his fingers are still clotted with

sleep.

In a series of frustrated grunts and groans he becomes more

and more aggravated until, finally --

He bolts out of bed and throws the clock into the wall.

He stoops for some beer bottle empties and hurls them at the

clock debris.

One final scream and it's out of his system. He finds one

last bottle in his hand, half-full with a cigarette butt

floating in it.

He downs the beer and steps into the adjoining bathroom to

brush his teeth.

EXT. KEY BISCAYNE STREET - DAY

Willie, sipping a cup of coffee, meanders down the street

scratching his ass.

EXT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Willie's walk brings him to a fancy eatery at lunchtime. As

he passes, he casually snatches a handful of car keys from

the parking valet key-box and moves on.

As he rounds the corner into the lot he pushes on the various

key fobs, identifying various cars when their alarms chirp.

He seems dissatisfied until a brand new Cadillac chirps.

Willie gets in and drives off.

INT. CADILLAC - MOVING - DAY

Willie drives. He reaches over into the glove compartment

and pulls out the registration. He focuses on the car owner's

address.

INT. UPPER-CLASS HOME - HALLWAY - DAY

Willie, eating a corn dog, saunters down an opulent hallway,

a beer swinging in one hand.

INT. UPPER-CLASS HOME - BATHROOM - DAY

In long shot, through the open door of an extravagant marble

bathroom, we see Willie sitting on the toilet, leafing through

a magazine, beer bottle on the counter next to him. Pants

around his ankles.

INT. UPPER-CLASS HOME - BATHROOM - MINUTES LATER

Willie, standing by the toilet, finishes buckling his belt

and flips the flush lever.

Nothing happens; no whoosh of rushing water.

Willie, looking down into the toilet, gives the lever a couple

more clanking tries, and then grabs his beer and ambles off.

INT. UPPER-CLASS HOME - STUDY - DAY

Sucking on his beer, Willie paces the periphery of the room,

methodically knocking painting after painting off the walls.

INT. UPPER-CLASS HOME - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

Willie arrives in the bedroom still knocking down paintings

until, finally, he exposes a wall safe.

A smile, and he pulls out a stethoscope.

The safe door swings open to reveal stacks of cash.

INT. STRIP BAR - NIGHT

Willie scratches a lottery ticket. He's now wearing a Rolex

and some gaudy ring.

He reaches for another one and we see that on the bartop in

front of him are neat stacks of lottery tickets as yet

unscratched, and an untidy jumble of scratched ones.

On the other side of the bar a MIDDLE-AGED STRIPPER vies for

his attention. Willie's ticket hits for $5.00.

He tucks it into the Stripper's G-string, swigs a drink, and

resumes scratching.

INT. RATBAG APARTMENT - NIGHT

Willie and the Stripper stagger into his apartment, drunk.

As he passes his blinking answering machine:

As she exits, he activates the machine.

Willie skips to the next message.

Willie skips to the next message.

Willie skips to the next message.

EXT. PHOENIX, ARIZONA - DAY

To the chimey chords of "Sleigh Ride," we see Phoenix, Arizona

in MONTAGE / dressed for Christmas but sweltering under its

oppressive winter heat.

EXT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - DAY

Through the heat ripples rising off the pavement two mirage-

like figures cross the infinite asphalt of the Saguaro Square

Mall parking lot -- Willie and Marcus in Santa and Elf

regalia, sweating and panting in the heat. Willie polishes

off a pint of Smirnoff's and flips it towards a nearby trash

can. It misses and breaks loudly on the pavement.

He pulls some Tic Tacs out of his pocket.

Anchoring the huge mall complex is the large and upscale

Chamberlain's Department Store.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - MAIN FLOOR - DAY

Amid the bustle of holiday shopping, an angry heavy-set man

with a Grizzly Adams beard stomps away from the pursuing

store manager, Bob Chipeska.

Harrison stomps away and right toward Marcus and Willie as

they enter the store.

Willie and Marcus stop in their tracks and watch the burly

man storm out. Bob Chipeska watches with them.

A Beautiful Girl wearing skin-tight pants walks by, catching

Willie's eye. He stares wantonly at her ass, off in his own

little world.

Willie's reaction worries Marcus.

Marcus shoves Willie, who stalks off. Marcus lingers to smooth

things over. He forces a grin and shakes his head.

A long, long, long silence.

Another beat. Marcus pantomimes helpless laughter, noiselessly

throwing his head back and holding his gut as it heaves with

mirth.

He is instantly composed.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - DAY

On an upper floor of Chamberlain's the theme is "The Desert

as Winter Wonderland." Cacti and tumbleweeds are wrapped

with lights and flocked with snow, and a team of nine stuffed

burros are hitched to a sleigh. Rudolfo the Red Nosed Burro

is tended by several Santa's elf mannequins. One in cowboy

wear and another in a poncho and sombrero.

Again there is a line of waiting children. Marcus makes his

way through the line as kids gasp and cheer. He plays to the

crowd.

Yayyyyyy! Marcus gets to the head of the line, ducks under

the velvet rope and goes behind the flimsy cardboard set.

Willie sits there morosely, head slumped, forearms on knees,

red velvet hanging limply from one hand.

He takes a bottle from the floor by his feet and swigs off

it. Marcus stares at him.

Willie just slumps there apologetically.

He grabs the hat, slams it into Willie's chest and, as Willie

rises, kicks him in the ass. Willie just takes it, shambling

off.

EXT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - DAY

On the outskirts of the Saguaro Square Mall's parking lot a

city bus stops with a hiss. The doors swing open to reveal a

pathetic EIGHT-YEAR-OLD KID, overweight, snot-nosed, badly

dressed and probably smelling of pee.

As the kid nears the mall entrance he passes a group of older

children doing skateboard stunts. They notice him.

One of them throws an empty can that hits him in the head.

The kid walks on, it seems without noticing.

The bullies, disheartened by the lack of reaction, go back

to their skateboarding.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - DAY

Marcus leads a LARGE HEAVYSET BOY over to the throne. The

boy eats a chocolate ice cream cone which is smeared all

over his mouth and T-shirt. Marcus lifts him with effort and

a groan onto Willie's lap.

The HEAVYSET BOY hops off onto Willie's foot by mistake.

Marcus puts a young girl on his lap. She looks up at him in

awe.

Marcus puts another young boy on his lap.

No one is next.

Still nothing.

Marcus walks over to the rope. The snot-nosed Kid is next in

line, frozen by fear. Marcus pulls on his hand.

The Kid stays put.

The Kid shakes his head meekly.

No response.

This penetrates the Kid's fear. He moves.

Marcus leads the Kid up to the throne and places him on

Willie's lap.

The Kid just stares, motionless except for the flowing rivulet

of snot. Willie can't help but stare at it.

Suddenly the Kid is moved to yank Willie's beard. He holds

it stretched below Willie's chin.

Willie shoves the Kid:

The Kid backs away, looking at him.

The Kid backs away in awe, never breaking his reverent stare.

As Marcus helps the next child onto Santa's lap Willie hisses

at him:

EXT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - NIGHT

The Kid sits on a bench watching the entrance to

Chamberlain's. After a beat Willie and Marcus walk out in

costume and cross toward the parking lot.

The Kid follows from a safe distance.

EXT. SAGUARO MALL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Willie and Marcus walk across the huge empty parking lot,

followed at a great distance by the Kid.

They arrive at their cars -- Marcus' van and a beat-up old

Chrysler that is Willie's -- parked next to each other.

As the Kid creeps closer, he is able to hear their

conversation.

Willie motions to the Black Angus in the parking lot.

INT. BLACK ANGUS BAR - NIGHT

A large faux rustic bar filled to capacity with loosened-tie

middle-management.

Crammed at the far end of the bar, Willie stands out like a

sore thumb in this thirty-ish crowd.

We follow his gaze all around the perimeter of the room until

it connects with the drunken, glowering face of a HINDUSTANI

TROUBLEMAKER, sitting right across from him, startling Willie

for a moment.

Willie regains his composure, then gives the guy a puzzled

look back, and amused by the guy's unflinching anger, raises

his glass in a toast to him as if to say, "whatever... cheers,

you nutcase", and turns back to his drink.

The man stands up and, never releasing his stare, moves right

up to Willie, two inches from his face. Willie looks up.

Willie gears up for a swing.

A hand grabs his arm.

Willie follows the hand to find a mature but attractive

BARMAID (SUE), an outdoorsy western beauty. Her eyes and

Willie's lock -- a source of sardonic amusement for the

troublemaker.

He stalks off.

By the bathroom, the troublemaker is in another man's face:

She pours him another and slams it on the bar.

He pounds the drink.

She waits. Nothing else is forthcoming.

She pours two. They both pound them back.

Her statement is a question:

As she pours:

He shrugs:

Willie stares at her.

INT. WILLIE'S CAR - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Willie is on top of the barmaid, humping her, still in his

Santa suit. His pom-pom bobs in rhythm with his thrusts.

The hat is slipping askew. He reaches for it.

EXT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

In the parking lot the barmaid finishes straightening her

clothes and touching up her lipstick in the rearview mirror.

Willie, leaning against his car, still in his Santa suit,

fires up a post-coital cigarette.

She gets out of the car.

She hands him the slip of paper and ambles off, calling back

over her shoulder:

Willie, nodding understanding, turns to reach for his car

door and --

-- the accompanying PAN OVER brings in the screaming

homophobe.

The man stares at him for a beat.

Willie pulls back a fist.

WHACK-WHACK-WHACK-WHACK-WHACK! The man surprises Willie with

a flurry of effective punches. In moments, Willie is on the

losing end of homosexual panic.

The Troublemaker stops and looks down to find the Kid beating

on his legs.

Willie gets a chance to regain composure. He wipes the blood

from his mouth, raises his fists and... promptly collapses.

The Hindustani hothead wanders off. The Kid shuffles over to

the prone Willie.

INT. WILLIE'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

The Kid sits in the front seat next to Willie who drives,

stewing.

Willie demonstrates with a sharp turn of his hand:

Willie answers absently, his head slightly ducked and his

eyes darting side to side, checking for road signs:

He makes a hard left.

EXT. THE KID'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Willie escorts the Kid along a long walkway that leads to

the front door of a large, opulent, new-money Southwestern

home.

Willie admires the surroundings.

As the Kid lets himself in Willie pulls out a black ski mask

and puts it on his head like a stocking cap.

He unrolls the mask to cover his face and takes out a

blackjack.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Willie enters the foyer as the Kid walks into the adjoining

room. He approaches a figure in a La-Z-Boy watching TV.

Grandma rises from her chair with the assistance of her walker

and begins to move toward Willie. She wears a bathrobe and

thick glasses and has another pair of glasses on a chain

around her neck.

He watches as the senile old woman innocently putters away.

He yanks off his mask and turns to the Kid.

The Kid shakes his head.

The Kid shakes his head.

This sinks in. Willie looks to the Kid.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - STUDY - NIGHT

The sound of a tumbler tripping and, suddenly, light sweeps

in as the safe door opens to reveal a smiling Willie with

his stethoscope in his ears.

In the foreground a few stacks of cash and a folio. Willie

reaches in.

Willie grabs the folio and flips through it. Insurance forms,

deeds, Social Security cards, birth certificates, etc., all

bear the name of the Kid's father, Roger Merman.

Nothing of value.

He puts the folio back, grabs the cash.

Willie bends down and faces the Kid with a smile.

EXT. THE KID'S HOUSE - NIGHT

At the cut a new Mercedes screeches through the frame and,

as we hear it recede, we are left looking at the kid, who

stands at the curb, waving happily.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - SECURITY OFFICE - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP: the glowing ash of a cigarette burning down. The

inhale lasts as long as comic timing will allow -- about six

or seven seconds.

ANGLE ON:

A wiry, hard-bitten, sun-baked saddlebag of a man, GIN SLAGEL

sits behind his cluttered desk sucking on a filterless Pall

Mall. We can hear his in-taken breath rattling over and around

the phlegm, growths, and polyps that line his embattled

trachea. His words come out on an exhaled cloud chamber's

worth of smoke:

Bob Chipeska sits opposite.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WOMEN'S BIG AND TALL - (EARLIER)

Chipeska walks by a cashier station carrying some paperwork

he's absorbed in, but hears some FAINT GROANS that make him

pause. Curious, he heads in the direction of the sounds.

They're coming from the dressing room area.

Chipeska curiously makes his way towards a corridor of

dressing rooms.

A sign reads: "Three Times A Lady".

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - DRESSING ROOM AREA - (EARLIER)

He goes down a corridor of dressing rooms.

The sound of throttling lust builds in volume. He follows

his ears until he arrives at a dressing room door. A Big or

Tall woman within screams with pleasure:

He looks underneath and spots black Santa boots with red

velvet pants around the ankles.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - SECURITY OFFICE - NIGHT

Bob Chipeska holds up one hand.

INT. SAGAURO SQUARE MALL - VIDEO ARCADE - NIGHT

POV through the arcade's window shows Willie talking in

pantomime to a young girl -- a very young girl -- at one of

the pinball machines. Willie has his hands out to either

side and is either demonstrating the kind of body English to

apply to the machine, or else is describing an elaborate

sexual encounter -- either recalled or prospective. The girl,

giggles.

A REVERSE shows Marcus halted at the arcade window staring

in with disbelief that gives way to jaw-grinding anger:

EXT. SAGOARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Willie and Marcus walk to their cars.

BOOP-BOOP! Willie uses his key fob to deactivate the car

alarm to the Mercedes.

Willie opens the door and an avalanche of beer bottle empties

tumbles out, rolling everywhere.

Willie starts the engine and pulls out, and Marcus yells to

the receding car:

EXT. RESIDENCE MOTEL - NIGHT

Willie parks the Mercedes in the front of a rundown motel

complex. He walks past hookers and junkies until he gets to

his unit.

He pulls out his key and just as he's about to insert it in

the lock he sees a flashlight beam shining inside the window.

Surprised, he backs off cautiously and presses up against

the wall.

Someone inside is rifling the room.

Willie hisses at a nearby hooker:

Opal looks at him with disdain.

Reluctantly, she sidles over.

INT. MARCUS' APARTMENT - NIGHT

Marcus is on the phone with Willie.

EXT. RESIDENCE MOTEL - NIGHT

Willie is at a pay phone.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT

The Kid swings the door open to Willie, who stands on the

stoop holding a small grip.

He brushes past the kid into the house, eyes darting this

way and that.

The Kid follows Willie like a puppy dog as Willie checks out

the house, bumping open doors, looking around.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Willie has discovered the master bedroom, by appearances

long unused. He tosses his grip onto the double bed.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - MASTER BATHROOM - NIGHT

The Kid sits on a stool, hands on his knees, staring,

motionless.

Finally:

Willie lies in the tub, also motionless, a wet washcloth

over his face, fingers of one hand resting against a tumbler

filled with ice and amber liquid that sits on the edge of

the tub.

From under his washcloth:

He drags the washcloth off his face and looks at the kid.

The Kid looks at him, unperturbed.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Willie staggers in, a towel around his waist, the empty rock

glass in one hand, a bottle tucked under the other arm, the

Kid trotting after.

Willie carefully, carefully puts glass and bottle down on

the nightstand and slowly raises both hands in a "Don't...

Move" gesture to keep them from flying off.

Satisfied that the bottle and glass are not going anywhere,

Willie climbs unsteadily onto the bed and stares at the

ceiling.

A long beat.

The ragged breath of drunken sleep.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - MAIN FLOOR - SCARF AREA - DAY

Marcus's wife Lois stands in front of a mirror, trying on a

cashmere scarf. Her look of pruney disapproval is in place,

as ever. She takes off the scarf and writes something in a

small spiral notebook...

Across the store, she spies the jewelry counter.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - MAIN FLOOR - JEWELRY AREA - DAY

Lois stands looking intently down through the glass case in

pruney disapproval.

Without bothering to look up:

As he drifts away she takes out her spiral notebook and makes

more notes.

INT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - FOOD COURT - NIGHT

Willie and Marcus nosh on food-court Gyros.

Lois appears with a salad on a tray and a look of pruney

disapproval. She sits next to Marcus and, in the way of old

couples comfortable with each other, he rests a hand on her

knee and continues to talk, ignoring her, while she picks

through her salad, ignoring him.

Marcus thinks a moment.

Lois, chewing on her salad, notices someone walking by with

a Chamberlain's bag. She glances in as the person passes

and, still chewing, gets out her notebook and jots something

down.

Marcus and Lois get up to leave.

They walk off. Willie sits there for a moment. Goes back to

eating his hamburger. A WOMAN comes up with her TODDLER in

tow.

He throws his hamburger back down on his tray and storms

off, leaving the woman shocked.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Willie and the Kid sit opposite each other over a game of

checkers. Willie scowls as the Kid thinks for an eternity

about his next move.

The silence is deafening. Endless.

Then... CLICK! CLICK! CLICK! CLICK! CLICK!

Willie stares at the board for a long beat.

He leaps up screaming and flings the board across the room.

Willie throws checkers one by one against the wall,

punctuating each throw with an insult.

ANGLE ON Kid's face, unfazed, still smiling.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - KID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Later. The kid lies in bed, sleeping peacefully.

Distant sounds of the slosh of water.

EXT. THE KID'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - NIGHT

Churning water.

The sloshing of water is now accompanied by a rhythmic

slapping sound.

Willie bangs Sue in the Jacuzzi. He is wearing his Santa

hat.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Two tall water glasses are set down on a sideboard.

A splash of orange juice is dolloped into each of the glasses,

and then both are filled to the top with vodka.

WIDER on the living room reveals Sue looking around. Her

speech -- and Willie's -- is somewhat impaired:

Sue accepts her refilled glass and sits on the sofa.

She reaches down to fish under her ass in the sofa cushion,

and pulls out a red checker. She dully inspects it.

Sue flips the checker away.

He sways, looking at her.

Blearily she gazes back. After a moment:

He leans down to kiss her.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT

The door opens to reveal Sue on her way out. Willie sways in

the foyer, a three-quarters-empty bottle of Old Grandad in

hand.

He closes the door. He then tips back the bottle and polishes

it off with a series of quick gulps.

Ever so daintily, he puts the bottle down. A beat later --

WHAM! He faints dead away, hitting the floor like a felled

tree.

Faintly, distantly, a blood-curdling scream.

FADE IN:

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - FOYER/HALLWAY - MORNING

Willie wakes on the floor to the sound of the scream.

He looks blearily up and immediately grabs his head, feeling

his hangover.

Following his ears he heads toward the hall. He passes

Grandma.

A bedroom door crashes open and the Kid emerges screaming

and runs right into Willie. He immediately caroms off and

goes screaming down the hall.

He looks down at his T-shirt. There is a bloody palm-print

on his stomach.

He turns the corner to the hall, There is a row of fresh,

bloody palm-prints down one side of the hall. The Kid,

screaming, is just disappearing at the far end.

Willie follows.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Willie enters.

The Kid is screaming, jumping up and down and clutching one

hand -- the bloody one -- with the other.

He goes up and tries to yank the hand, which the hysterical

Kid yanks away.

As Willie drags him to the sink and runs water over the cut,

the Kid takes great gulping breaths and finally manages to

say:

Willie grabs a vodka bottle standing open on the counter and

liberally pours some on the hand. The Kid shrieks.

The Kid yanks his hand away and runs off screaming. Willie

is left alone in the middle of the kitchen.

He calls after the boy, sincerely trying to help:

EXT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - MORNING

It is early morning and the parking lot is empty except for

Marcus' van. The Mercedes eventually pulls in, parking beside

him. Windows roll down. In the driver's seat, Marcus looks

up from his watch with a scowl.

VAN DOORS

Marcus throws open the back of the van, revealing the

components of the water drill in various prop gift boxes.

Willie wears a forbearing smile:

He shakes his head and chuckles as Marcus tosses him an empty

red Santa sack.

Marcus stares.

EXT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - ENTRANCE - MORNING

Jesse, the security guard unlocks the door and opens up for

Willie and Marcus. They enter in costume. Willie lugs the

filled sack and seems to be straining.

Willie pants under the weight of his bag:

EXT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - MORNING

As Willie and Marcus enter the store Gin Slagel drives by

their cars, carefully noting their tags.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - DAY

Willie drops the bag with a loud thud.

Together they unload the extremely heavy gifts.

Willie follows Marcus behind the Wonderland backdrop. Marcus

points to an air duct in the ceiling.

Willie crouches and Marcus climbs on his shoulders.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - AIR DUCT - DAY

The duct pops open and Marcus climbs in, shimmying down to a

junction and continuing on.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - CUSTOMER SERVICE OFFICES - DAY

A long row of cubicles, each one occupied with Customer

Service Operators. As they work, the loud squeaks and popping

metal sounds of a dwarf crawling through a duct are heard

above them.

Each operator in succession notes the racket, looking up

curiously as the sounds pass overhead.

Suddenly, the sounds stop. Everyone returns to work.

Then...

SQUEAK! POP! SQUEAK! The sounds resume. The operators look

up again as the noises fade away.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - SURVEILLANCE ROOM - DAY

The sounds continue until Marcus' face appears at the ceiling

duct of an unmanned surveillance room.

He focuses on the wall of a hundred identical VCRs and squints

to see the brand name: SONY HVR-3200.

EXT. ELECTRONICS STORE - DAY

Lois exits an electronics store with a box slung under her

arm, her mouth turned down in pruney disapproval. She places

the box on the hood of her car and we see its printings SONY

HVR-3200.

She opens the box, fishes out the remote, then tosses the

box and VCR into a nearby trash can.

EXT. ARIZONA STATE PRISON - DAY

Gin Slagel walks through the main gate of the heavily

fortified penitentiary, leaving a huge trail of cigarette

smoke.

INT. PRISON - WAITING ROOM - DAY

Gin Slagel sits, smoking and waiting with family members and

lawyers. A guard enters and motions.

INT. PRISON - VISITORS' ROOM - DAY

Gin sits down in one of the booths across from a middle-aged

prisoner.

The man is bewildered:

He gets up and walks away.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

Gin sits at his desk sucking in a Pall Mall filterless. Bob

Chipeska sits opposite. Finally Gin exhales like a

crematorium.

Gin turns one palm up.

EXT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - DAY

A bus clears frame, revealing the kid as he walks toward the

mall.

CLANG! The kid is hit in the head with a can again. Again,

no reaction.

Someone in the group of frustrated bullies has a fresh idea:

Cheering, the six bullies engulf the kid.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - DAY

Marcus and Willie go about the business of being a Santa-Elf

team. Willie sees off another child,

Marcus heads to the velvet rope to find the Kid, mussed up

and dirty, the band of his underwear around his chest.

Marcus unclips the rope and the Kid approaches Willie.

Willie stares at him.

He slaps the Kid paternally on the ass.

As the Kid putters away:

Marcus returns to the velvet rope to find Gin Slagel waiting

stone-faced.

Marcus, wary, hesitates but then lets him through. As they

walk toward Willie:

Willie is irked by the arrival of an adult:

Gin sits on Willie's knee.

INT. BLACK ANGUS BAR - NIGHT

Willie, Marcus and Gin sit in a booth.

Willie bolts out of his chair and grabs Gin by the neck.

Marcus pulls him off.

After a hard stare Willie settles back into his seat. Marcus

turns his attention to Gin:

Marcus sighs.

Gin leaves. Marcus and Willie stare at his retreating back

as they talk:

Marcus turns to Willie:

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Willie drags his ass through the front door, dejected.

He stares at her. His gaze is far away. Finally, he seems to

rouse himself:

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - GARAGE - NIGHT

IN C.U. CAMERA MOVES ALONG

a hose snaking from an exhaust pipe to the driver's window

which is open just far enough to admit it.

In his Santa suit, Willie sits in the driver's seat of the

idling car, staring through the windshield.

After a long beat, we hear a door opening.

The kid stands in the doorway from the house. He looks at

Willie, motionless in the car.

Willie's eyes do not leave the spot in space:

The Kid turns to go. Willie bestirs himself:

Willie beckons him.

He displays an envelope.

The Kid's eye is indeed black and blue. He reaches self-

consciously up to it.

EXT. HILL NEAR SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - DAY

We are pulling an eight-year-old child who rides his bicycle

along the sidewalk, looking off, struck by what he sees.

He slows and then comes to a stop having pulled even with a

group of other children gathered on the sidewalk also looking

off at the same spot. They stare for a good long beat,

expressions rather neutral. But the sight, whatever it is,

holds their attention.

Finally one in the foreground remarks:

Their POV: rather distant, on a grassy hill a man in a Santa

suit is pounding the shit out of the bullies. One of the

bullies throws a punch, but Santa grabs his fist and pushes

him down. Santa puts his foot on another bully's butt and

sends him flying. After more wrestling and flinging about,

the bullies wind up in a heap on the ground.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - LOCKER ROOM -DAY

Willie, a faraway look in his eye, sits on a bench near

Marcus, who is finishing putting on his elf outfit.

Willie, dreamy, refuses to take the bait:

Marcus stares at him.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - MAIN FLOOR - FURS - DAY

Lois, her face set in pruney disapproval, flips slowly through

a rack of furs.

A salesman approaches from behind her. She somehow senses

his presence; without bothering to look around she murmurs:

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Willie and Sue come in, carrying a few bottles of liquor.

Willie closes the door, and freezes, realizing that something

is wrong.

Nothing.

He hears the TV and heads for the living room. Sue follows a

few steps behind.

Willie finds Grandma in her chair, not moving.

He strains through the dim light for any evidence of life.

He lets out a sigh and leans in close to listen to her heart.

Willie jumps and screams like a girl.

She gets up and heads for the kitchen as Willie tries to

compose himself.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - KID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The Kid sleeps. He is awakened by the sounds of stumbling

and CLANKING BOTTLES. He hears GIGGLING, more STUMBLING. He

gets up.

INT. THE'KID'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT

The Kid discovers some clothes. Then some more. He follows

the trail of clothes towards the sounds coming from the Master

Bedroom.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Facing the CAMERA, Willie's in his underpants and Santa hat

lying on the floor on top of Sue. He's gripping her panties

with his teeth -- stretching the elastic while he starts

pulling them down. Sue's giggling.

The bedroom door opens behind them and the Kid walks in. He

comes up and stands over them, a few steps behind Willie.

Willie freezes, panty elastic waistband still stretched out

in his teeth. He senses something, and his eyes look up from

under his Santa hat, his wolfish smile fades.

The Kid stands there, hands behind his back.

The Kid takes his hands from behind his back and extends a

small present in crudely taped-up wrapping paper.

This forces Willie to let go of the panties. They SNAP back.

He sits up. He takes the gift and opens it. Inside is a

roughly whittled crescent of brown wood.

Willie stares at it.

Willie stares at it.

He leaves.

Willie still stares at the gift. Sue is looking where the

Kid exited.

She goes back to grabbing him passionately.

Willie has trouble speaking.

He looks from the wooden pickle up to Sue, his eyes brim,

and he starts weeping.

Sue hugs him and strokes his hair.

Willie abjectly bawls:

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Willie, hungover, half-dressed in his Santa outfit for work.

He fumbles in the refrigerator for some orange juice.

The Kid comes up behind him clutching a document.

Willie jumps with a start.

Willie takes the report card as he tries to compose himself.

He looks at it. All C's and one B.

Willie's eyes drift back to the card and settle on COMMENTS.

They read, "Thurman has an active, inquiring mind. And no

friends."

Willie does not want to engage.

This is a lot for Willie to hear.

Pause.

An uncomfortable silence. Willie is most uncomfortable.

The Kid just nods and doesn't say anything. Willie can't

take it.

Willie runs out of the room very upset,

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - FOYER - MORNING

Willie grabs a bottle of whiskey off the counter and hurries

out, slamming the door.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - DAY

Marcus checks his watch impatiently as the endless line of

excited children and their parents impatiently murmurs.

The tension is suffocating Marcus. Finally, a gasp goes up

from the crowd.

Marcus looks up to see Willie, totally shit-faced. His costume

is half on, his undergarments are showing, and his hand

clutches the neck of a broken bottle.

Willie stumbles over a burro and falls into a pile of fake

snow. He rises to his feet and begins to pummel the statue.

Children scream in horror as mothers cover their eyes.

Gin enters the Wonderland and takes in the spectacle.

Willie finishes dispatching the burro and stumbles to his

Santa chair. Marcus stomps up to him.

Marcus pounces on him.

Gin pulls Marcus off.

The two men face each other, their voices rising. Beyond

them we see the line of children staring at them.

Gin notices the line of kids staring. He puts up a sign that

reads: "Santa Has Gone To Feed His Reindeer. He'll be back

soon".

INT. MARCUS' VAN - PARKING LOT - DUSK

Marcus sits with Lois in the van staking out the door to

Chamberlain's, waiting for Gin to leave.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - DUSK

WILLIE sleeps it off behind a flimsy cardboard set.

INT. MARCUS' VAN - PARKING LOT - DUSK

Marcus and Lois continue their stake-out.

We see Gin exit the store and head for his car.

EXT. QUIET ROAD - NIGHT

Marcus stands by the side of his van. It's parked on the

shoulder with the hood up, jumper cables attached and hanging.

Lois is in the driver's seat.

Gin's Ford 4 X 4 speeds around the corner and Marcus flags

him down.

SCREEEEECH! Gin slams on the brakes, then backs up and pulls

over. He emerges from the 4 X 4 with road rage on full brew,

and strides over to the van.

He shakes his head in disgust. Grumbling, he goes back to

the 4 X 4 and drives it into position. He gets out and raises

the hood.

The two vehicles face each other nose-to-nose, several feet

apart as Gin opens the hood.

Marcus seems to have a little difficulty reaching the battery

terminals.

Gin grabs the cables from him. Marcus takes a few steps back.

Gin attaches the cables.

Lois turns the key and the van starts right up. Gin takes

the cables off the van and closes the hood. He lights up a

Pall Mall.

Marcus signals to Lois. She puts the car into gear and stomps

her foot on the accelerator, squashing Gin between the two

vehicles.

ANGLE PROM INSIDE VAN (SLOW MOTION):

Gin's face as it's squooshed up against the van's windshield.

A cloud of cigarette smoke escapes his lips.

Lois continues to step on the gas, trying to crush him.

ANGLE ON: the tires spinning in the gravel.

Finally, she takes her foot off the gas. The van eases back.

Gin falls to the ground with a groan. Marcus steps up and

leans over him.

Then, leaning down to Gin.

Marcus paces around trying to figure out what to do next.

He grabs the jumper cables still connected to Gin's 4 X 4

and clamps the other ends on Gin's ears. A small jolt and a

spark or two. Only a minor shock.

He grabs Gin's arm and with great effort drags him over a

few feet so that his head is positioned behind the front

tire of the van. Gin tries to crawl out of the way.

ANGLE ON: Gin's feet slipping on the gravel.

ANGLE ON: shift level moving into REVERSE.

ANGLE ON: Lois' foot stepping on the gas pedal.

WIDER: Lois drives backwards. There's a bump and the sound

of a dull POP.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - NEXT DAY

CLOSE-UP: A large bubble gum bubble pops.

Willie, in a self-medicated stupor, barely managing to hold

a wailing toddler on his lap. Bubble gum is all over the

Kid's face.

He passes the child off to Marcus, who holds it as Willie

gazes off and murmurs;

Marcus, still holding the child, quickly glances around, and

then hisses into Willie's ear:

Willie continues to stare, head swaying.

Marcus hands the kid to his Mother. He smiles warmly.

INT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - NIGHT

"Jolly Old Saint Nicholas" plays as a buzzing throng of people

crams the mall.

One current in this sea of humanity flows into the bedecked

entrance of Chamberlain's Department Store.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Jesse the security guard is at his post near the doors to

the parking lot. He smiles and waves farewell to departing

shoppers.

Behind Jesse, in Men's Wear, is Lois, wearing a frown of

pruney disapproval. Seeing that he's not looking, she

inexplicably nudges a table of sweaters a few feet over.

SQUEEEEEEEAK! The table makes a loud noise, but it's too

chaotic on the floor for anyone to notice. Satisfied with

her placement of the table, Lois heads out the door.

INT. CHAMBERAIN'S - WINTER WONDERLAND - NIGHT

Bleary-eyed Willie puts down a little girl and she happily

scampers off.

Willie turns to Marcus.

Marcus moves the backdrop to reveal the air vent.

Willie cracks open an ampule of Amyl Nitrate and inhales

deeply. Marcus grimaces:

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - MAIN FLOOR - NIGHT

With the sound of closing circuits, banks of light

systematically shut down in the various departments of the

now empty.store.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Exhausted employees file out of the store past Jesse.

Eventually Willie emerges.

Jesse heads for the alarm panel near the doorway and punches

the key labeled ARM. An LED readout labeled ARMING counts

down from 30 seconds.

Jesse exits the store, locking the door and heading home.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - CUSTOMER SERVICE OFFICES - NIGHT

The cubicles are now empty and the office is still, but we

hear dwarf-shimmy in the ducts overhead.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S ENTRANCE - NIGHT

By the front door, the alarm continues to count down -- 25...

24...

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - AIR DUCT - NIGHT

Marcus arrives at the vent above the surveillance room. He

reaches in his pocket, pulls out the remote control Lois

bought, and aims it down into the room.

INT. CHAMBERLAN'S - SURVEILLANCE ROOM - NIGHT

The huge bank of VCRs powers down.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S ENTRANCE - NIGHT

ALARM BOX

19... 18...

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - AIR DUCT - NIGHT

Marcus arrives at the precipice of a descending duct. He

snaps on a biking helmet and takes a deep breath.

He dives down the duct.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

We PAN and WHIP-PIVOT along the outside of several lengths

of ductwork, following the muffled SCREAM of a thousand

girlies echoing inside.

The ductwork dimples out along the bottom with the WUBBA

sound of flopping aluminum as Marcus's weight travels its

length; at turns, Marcus's inertial force makes one side of

the duct momentarily dent out.

We thus follow Marcus's progress as he slides, bumps,

ricochets and barrels through the department store.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - MAIN FLOOR - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

As the alarm continues to count down, 12... 11... a distant

scream grows louder until --

-- in nearby Men's Wear, the vent in the 30-foot ceiling

bursts open and --

-- Marcus drops from the duct.

THUD! He lands on the table of sweaters placed by Lois.

In a split-second, he sits up and looks at the alarm box.

7... 6...

He hops off the table and pushes it toward the alarm box.

5... 4...

The far side of the table smashes into the wall beneath the

alarm box.

Marcus kicks out the collapsible legs on the near side, making

that edge of the table crash to the ground, creating a ramp.

He sprints away from the table spins, and runs back towards

it...

3... 2...

He runs up the ramp and --

1...

-- leaps and slaps the CANCEL button -- just in time.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - OFFICES - NIGHT

DING! Elevator doors open to reveal Willie and Marcus holding

sections of the disassembled water drill.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - ACCOUNTING OFFICE - NIGHT

The lights flicker on in the accounting office as Willie and

Marcus wheel the water drill over to the safe. Once they get

it there:

Willie stares at the safe.

He nods at the safe.

Willie continues to stare at the safe. He licks his lips.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - MONTAGE - NIGHT

Willie stares at the safe while rubbing sandpaper to his

fingertips.

Meanwhile, Marcus emerges from a stockroom with a cart to

begin his shopping spree.

Willie applies a stethoscope to the safe, tapping with one

hand and listening intently.

Marcus starts in Ladies' Accessories, finding the cashmere

scarf.

Willie applies the drill to the safe.

Marcus makes his way through Lingerie.

Willie pulls back the drill. The bit is trashed, the safe is

completely unscathed.

Marcus is in Shoes picking out pumps for Lois.

Willie is in Home Improvement, flipping tools off the shelves

into a cart of his own.

Marcus is in Evening Wear, jumping to try to pull a stole

off a mannequin.

Willie batters a chisel into the seam of the safe door.

Marcus continues to leap at the mannequin.

Willie is atop the safe, swinging a sledgehammer at the lock.

Marcus swings at the mannequin's knees with a golf club.

Willie uses a plasma welder on the safe.

Marcus, having chopped down the mannequin, drags off its

stole.

Willie is back over the safe, battering it with the

sledgehammer, roaring with each swing.

Marcus is in Housewares pilfering crock pots.

Willie, sweating, drops the sledgehammer clanking to the

floor. Wiping his forehead, he circles the safe. When he

gets to the back of the safe he stops, thinks.

Marcus is in Home Entertainment grabbing a stereo.

Willie is hunched at the back of the safe, stethoscope to

its surface, giving exploratory taps with two knuckles.

Sound perspective through the stethoscope: hollow THUNKS

followed by an unnaturally loud and present CREEEEEEEEAK.

Willie reacts quizzically. After a considering moment he

rises. we can see, on the far side of the safe, its door as

it finishes creaking open.

Marcus enters the room. Willie looks at him.

Marcus starts removing stacks of cash and loading them into

the Santa sack. Willie wipes sweat off his forehead.

INT. CHAMBERLAN'S - TOY DEPT. - NIGHT

We are looking at a big, fuzzy, smiling, pink stuffed

elephant.

Willie's hand hesitates between this elephant and the one

behind, which is purple. We hear him muttering:

The hand finally leaves with the purple elephant.

We hold for a long beat.

The hand reenters to put back the purple and take the pink.

Willie turns around holding the stuffed elephant.

Marcus and Lois are standing there presenting a grotesque

picture: Lois has a shopping cart filled with shoes, scarves,

jewels, a salad spinner, purses, a block of Ginsu knives, an

abdomen exerciser. She wears a pair of sunglasses from which

a price tag dangles, and a long ermine stole.

Next to her Marcus holds the Santa bag bulging with -- indeed,

sprouting -- cash.

Something in this picture makes Willie uneasy. He licks his

lips.

He pauses, searching.

Marcus and Lois are statues, staring at him.

A long silence.

Willie's tone is wooden:

Again, he licks his lips.

Marcus flicks his coat front away and pulls a .45 out of his

waistband.

He primes the gun. Willie murmurs, more in sadness than in

fear:

Marcus points the gun.

Marcus sneers:

A silence.

Marcus sighs.

He aims. Willie squeezes his eyes shut.

From nowhere:

CLACK CLACK CLACK CLACK CLACK -- the sound of many guns

priming.

Police everywhere.

Willie stares. Marcus looks wildly around.

CAMERA TRACKS IN ON HIS FACE

Willie slaps his forehead.

BANG! BANG! BANG!

His .45 roars.

The cops return fire.

He ducks, clutching the elephant to his chest, and scurries

behind a counter.

Gunfire fills the air.

Exploding merchandise chases along the counter behind Willie

as the cops seek to put him down.

Under the gunfire we hear Marcus's maniacal laughter.

Willie reaches the end of the counter. A brief open space

separates him from a stairwell; he dashes across as gunfire

redoubles and plunges down the stairs.

EXT. CHAMBERLAIN'S - LOADING DOCK - NIGHT

Willie bursts out onto the loading dock still holding the

elephant. He dives into his Mercedes and peels out.

EXT. SAGUARO SQUARE MALL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Rounding the corner of the loading dock, Willie comes upon a

fleet of squad cars idling in the street. Cops yell, draw

their guns and fire as Willie clips a couple cars, skids and

slues, and finally is clear of the pack.

He roars up the road as policemen leap for their vehicles,

crank up their sirens and pursue.

INT. MERCEDES - MOVING - NIGHT

Willie drives, his jaw set, a desperate man in a Santa suit.

He glances up at the rearview which shows many flashing light

bars.

EXT. THE KID'S HOUSE - NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

Willie's car corners onto Sage Terrace on two wheels, slams

back down onto four, fishtails up to the kid's house and

squeals braking into its driveway.

The police vehicles, in hot pursuit, squeal, skid, and slew

around in a jumble at the foot of the lawn. Cops leap out of

their cars just as Willie jumps from his.

Willie is sprinting up the walk toward the front door. His

voice echoes lone and weak after the boom of the megaphone:

He bounds up the stoop.

A ripple of gunfire.

At the top of the stoop, facing the door, Willie staggers,

rolls his eyes, and -- drops.

NEARBY WINDOW

Drawn by the noise, an adorable six-year-old in a nearby

house slides open his second-story bedroom window to look.

HIS HIGH POV:

Frozen in a semi-circle at the foot of the neighboring lawn,

an army of cops has guns trained on the felled Santa Claus,

who is sprawled on the neighbor's stoop, motionless. His

hand stretches toward the front door holding a fluffy pink

elephant un-delivered...

The six year old draws in his breath and SCREAMS.

He is joined by his equally adorable little brother and sister

who look, and SCREAM, with him.

Somewhere, a neighborhood dog barks.

A Cop looks up at the window and the three shrieking children.

INT. THE KID'S HOUSE - DAY

After a long beat, Willie's voice:

We are FADING IN on a shelf in the Kid's bedroom where the

stuffed elephant sits, in a place of honor, its fur indeed

stiff and stained with dried blood. The Kid's bedroom is no

longer in disarray, things are neat and comfy. We PAN OFF of

it to find this letter, crudely handwritten, tacked up on a

little bulletin board.

Our CONTINUING PAN brings us to the open door of the bedroom

and we hear the sound of the TV in the living room. We TRACK

toward it.

Grandma is in the living room watching TV. We TRACK past her

towards the Jacuzzi area.

Sue is in a towel, holding a highball as she climbs out of

the Jacuzzi. The Kid walks by her carrying a bucket. She

tousles his hair affectionately as he goes by. He's never

looked better.

WE TRACK TOWARDS THE FOYER. It's empty but the front door is

open. We TRACK towards it.

We go out the front door...

The Kid is dipping a toilet-bowl brush into a bucket of soapy

water on the front stoop.

As the Kid turns and hunkers down to scrub the dried blood

off the stoop, we see the back of his T-shirt. SHIT HAPPENS

WHEN YOU PARTY NAKED.

