INT. A BEDROOM - NIGHT

It is dark; we don't see clearly.  a man and woman make love

on a brass bed.  There are mirrors on the walls and ceiling.

On a side table, atop a small mirror, lines of cocaine.  A

tape deck PLAYS the Stones "Sympathy for the Devil."

Atop him... she straddles his chest... her breasts in his face.

He cups her breasts.  She leans down, kisses him...

JOHNNY BOZ is in his late 40's, slim, good-looking.  We don't

see the woman's face.  She has long blonde hair.  The CAMERA

STAYS BEHIND and to the side of them.

She leans close over his face, her tongue in his mouth...  she

kisses him... she moves her hands up, holds both of his arms

above his head.

She moves higher atop him... she reaches to the side of the

bed... a white silk scarf is in her hand... her hips above his

face now, moving... slightly, oh-so slightly... his face strains

towards her.

The scarf in her hand... she ties his hands with it...

gently... to the brass bed... his eyes are closed...  tighter...

lowering hips into his face... lower... over his chest... his

navel.  The SONG plays.

He is inside her... his head arches back... his throat white.

She arches her back... her hips grind... her breasts are high...

Her back arches back... back... her head tilts back... she

extends her arms... the right arm comes down suddenly...  the

steel flashes... his throat is white...

He bucks, writhes, bucks, convulses...

It flashes up... it flashes down... and up... and down...  and

up... and...

EXT. A BROWNSTONE IN PACIFIC HEIGHTS - MORNING

Winter in San Francisco cold, foggy.  Cop cars everywhere.

The lights play through the thick fog.  Two Homicide detectives

get out of the car, walk into the house.

NICK CURRAN is 42.  Trim, good-looking, a nice suit; a face

urban, edged, shadowed.  GUS MORAN is 64.  Crew-cut, silver

beard, a suit rumpled and shiny, a hat out of the 50'sa face

worn and ruined the face of a backwoods philosopher.

INT. THE BROWNSTONE

There's money here -- deco, clean, hip -- That looks like a

Picasso on the wall.  They check it out.

Past the uniformed guys... nods... waves... past the forensic

men... past the coroner's investigators... they get to the

bedroom.

INT. THE BEDROOM

They walk in, stare -- it's messy.

It's like a convention in here.  LT. PHIL WALKER, in his 50's,

silver-haired, the Homicide guys; JIM HARRIGAN, late 40's,

puffy, affable;  SAM ANDREWS, 30's, black.  A CORONER'S MAN is

working the bed.

They nod.

We see the white powder laid out in lines on the small mirror

on the side table.

Nick and Talcott look at each other a beat, then --

Lt. Walker looks at the notepad in his hand.

Nick writes it down.  He and Gus turn, leave.  Captain Talcott

watches them.  He looks disturbed.

INT. THE LIVING ROOM

As they head out --

He stops, turns, sees Walker behind them.  Walker comes up to

them.

EXT. A VICTORIAN ON DIVISADERO - DAY

It is more a mansion than a house.  They ring the bell.  An

Hispanic MAID answers.  They flash their badges.

We'd like to speak to Ms. Catherine Tramell.

She leads them into a lavish, beautifully done living room

that offers a sweeping view of the Bay.

They look around, impressed.  There is a Picasso on the wall

here, too.

Nick smiles -- and at that moment a beautiful BLONDE walks

into the room.  She looks like she has been asleep.  She is in

her early 20's.  She wears a very sheer robe.

She looks at them a beat.

They start to head out.

A beat, they look at her, and go...

EXT. SEADRIFT - STINSON BEACH - DAY

Foggy.  Cold.  It is an expensive spit of land on the ocean.

Multi-million dollar "beach houses" with gardens and swimming

pools.  There are two Ferraris in the driveway -- one black,

one white.

They get out of the car in front of the house.  They see a

woman in back of the house, sitting on a deck chair, staring

at the sea, a blanket around her.  As they get to her --

She takes a long look a Nick, then looks away.

CATHERINE TRAMELL is 30 years old.  She has long blonde hair

and a refined, classically beautiful face.  She is not knockout

gorgeous like Roxy; there is a smoky kind of sensuousness about

her.

She doesn't look at them.  She looks at the water.

Nick glances at Gus.

She closes her eyes a beat and then, still staring out, we see

a thin smile.  They see it, too, and glance at each other.

They glance at each other again.

Catherine looks at him -- that thin smile again.

She looks away.

They look at her a beat.

Catherine looks at him.

They stare at her.  She looks out at the water.

She doesn't even look at them.

A long beat as they look at her.

INT. A CORRIDOR - POLICE HEADQUARTERS

The door says Dr. Elizabeth Gardner, Counseling.  Nick opens

the door, peeks in.  The receptionist is not there.  A clock

says 3.

INT. THE COUNSELING OFFICE

He walks in -- sees the inner door open, walks in.

DR. ELIZABETH GARDNER, the police psychologist, is a very good-

looking, dark-haired woman.  She is 30.

He sits down.

She watches him closely.

That embarrassed her; she looks away from him.

She shrugs.  A beat.

She smiles.

And he starts heading out.

He doesn't even turn, pretends he didn't hear.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU

He walks in.  Gus Moran gets up from his desk as soon as he

sees him.

They start heading for Lt. Walker's office.

INT. LT. WALKER'S OFFICE

He and Gus sit there with Lt. Walker, Harrigan, Andrews and

Captain Talcott.

Talcott gives him a look.

It hangs there.

They just stare at him.

It hangs there a long beat.

INT. NICK'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

His apartment is very bare -- very few things -- with wide

open spaces.  There is a lot of chrome.

He sits on the couch, reading a book.  It is a paperback.

We see the title -- Love Hurts, by Catherine Adams.  He puts

the book down a beat, then picks the phone up, dials.

INT. A POLICE DEPARTMENT CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Nick, Gus, Lt. Walker, Harrigan, Andrews, Captain Talcott --

and Beth Gardner.  With them is an older, white-haired man,

DR. ANDREW LAMOTT.  There are copies of "Love Hurts" around

the table.

A long beat.

Some grins, titters.

A long beat -- as they think about it.

INT. THE PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

PROSECUTOR JOHN CORRIGAN, a big man in his 50's, with Captain

Talcott, Lt. Walker, Nick, and Gus.

Corrigan is reading a file.  He gets up, yawns, goes to his

window, looks out.

A long beat; no one says anything.

They look at him.

Nicks says nothing.

Nick looks a Gus, grins.

EXT. HER HOUSE IN STINSON - DAY

They walk from the car to the door of the big beach house.

They ring the bell.  They hear typing inside.  The typing stops.

She comes to the door in jeans and a tight-fitting sweatshirt.

They look at each other a beat.

He nods.

INT. THE HOUSE

It is beautifully done in a Santa Fe motif.  She goes to a

bedroom of the living room.

Nick sits down on a couch facing the bedroom she's walked into.

Gus sits across from him, his back to the bedroom.

There is a coffee table between them.  She leaves the bedroom

door halfway open.

An old newspaper is on the coffee table.  Nick reaches for it.

The headline says VICE COP CLEARED IN TOURIST SHOOTINGS.  A

headline underneath says GRAND JURY SAYS SHOOTINGS ACCIDENTAL.

There is a photograph of Nick.

He stares at the paper.

Nick puts the paper down on the coffee table.  He is lost in

his thoughts.  Gus picks the paper up.

Nick, facing the half open bedroom door, sees a mirror near

the wall of the bedroom.  The mirror reflects her in the other

corner of the bedroom.  She is taking her clothes off.  He

stares.  She strips down.  He sees her back. She has a beautiful

body.  Naked, she puts a dress on.  She doesn't put any

underwear on.

And she is suddenly out of the bedroom.  She stands there,

smiles.  They look at each other a long beat.

They get up, head out.

INT. THE CAR - DAY

They sit in the front; she is in the back.  The car goes over

the winding, two-lane Mt. Tamalpais road.

The fog is heavy.  It's starting to rain.  We see the beach

far below.

She smiles, looks at him.  A beat, and he turns away.  Another

beat, and she lights a cigarette up.

He turns back to her.

A beat, as she looks at him, and then he turns away.

He watches her in the rearview mirror.

He smiles at her in the mirror.

He turns back to her.

She looks right into his eye.

A beat, as they look at each other, and then he turns away

from her.  Gus watcher her in the rearview mirror.

INT. A POLICE INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

It is large, fluorescent-lighted, antiseptic.

She walks in with Nick and Gus.  In the room are prosecutor

John Corrigan, Lt. Walker, Captain Talcott, Harrigan, and

Andrews.  There is a police stenographer a plain young woman

in her 20's.

As soon as she comes in --

Corrigan and Talcott glance at Nick.  She sees the look.

The two of them keep their eyes on each other.

She sits down.  They sit around her.  Nick sits directly across

from her.  She lights up a cigarette.  They watch her.

She is poised, cool, in complete command of herself.

Ever so casually, she blows her smoke across at Nick.

INT. THE INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER

She has control of the room; she looks from one man to the

other as she speaks.

A beat, as they watch her.  She is so matter-of-fact.

They stare at her.

INT. THE INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER

They have their eyes on each other.

INT. THE INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER

She smiles.

She holds his eyes a second, then --

INT. THE INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER

She looks directly at Nick.

He watches her.

INT. THE INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER

They are holding each other's eyes.

They don't take their eyes off each other for a second.

Their eyes are still on each other.

Their eyes are digging into each other.

A beat; he stares at her, expressionless.

She lights a cigarette.  He stares at her.

He just stares at her, expressionless.

INT. THE INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER

She looks at Nick.

She and Nick have their eyes on each other, then --

INT. THE POLICE BUILDING - NIGHT

We see her in a glass-enclosed cubicle with a polygraph

EXAMINER.  Nick stands outside watching her with Gus and Lt.

Walker.  Her back is to them.  The Examiner shuts the machine

down, gathers rolls of papers, and comes out of the cubicle.

A long beat, then --

A long beat, Nick watches her as she sits inside.

The Examiner walks away.  They stand there. Catherine stands

at the door of the cubicle behind them --

She says nothing, has a thin smile.

They look at her a beat.

And he and Catherine walk away.  Gus and Walker watch them.

INT. HIS CAR - NIGHT

It is an old, mint-condition silver Porsche.  It is pouring

rain; the wind is blowing a San Francisco winter storm.  Nothing

is said a long beat as he drives.  She yawns.  Stretches.  He

looks at her.

She looks at him and looks away.  A beat.

He looks at her.

He says nothing, doesn't look at her.

He looks at her now.

He pulls up in front of her house on Divisadero, stops.  He

sees the white Ferrari in the driveway.

They look at each other a beat.

And she's out of the car.  He watches her as she hurries in

the rain -- his eyes on her until the moment she opens the

door and is inside.

INT. THE TEN-FOUR - NIGHT

It is a police bar, San Francisco style.  Ferns  Joe Montana

and Will Clark posters.  The jukebox has a lot of Tony Bennett.

He walks in.  He sees Lt. Walker at a back booth with Gus,

goes to them, sits down.

A BARTENDER stays behind the bar, but yells to him.

He gets up, gets his drink --

He sits back down.  He takes a big slug.  They watch him.

He takes another big slug.

A beat, then --

Gus looks at him with concern.  A man in his 50's -- LT. MARTIN

NILSEN  is suddenly there.  He is overweight, florid.

He grins.  Nick doesn't look at him.

Nilsen takes the drink, hands it to Nick.

Nick turns to him.  He's sitting in the booth; Nilsen is

standing there.  Nick looks like he's barely restraining

himself.

A beat, and then Nick gets up, faces him.

Lt. Walker and Gus get up and hold Nick back.

Beth Gardner, the police psychologist, is suddenly there.

And he walks away.  Nick still looks like he wants to go after

him.  Beth pulls him away from the booth.

Nick looks at her a beat.

A beat.  He looks at her again.

She looks at him a beat.

At the booth, Gus and Lt. Walker watch the two of them leave.

INT. BETH'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

He is kissing her -- hard, rough.  He forces her against the

wall.

We hear her dress RIP.  He kisses her harder -- we hear her

panties RIP.  He gets the dress off, pushes his hands under

her bra --

He puts his mouth to her shoulder, bites it -- as they move

down to the floor.

INT. BETH'S LIVING ROOM - LATER

It is dark.  The are still partially dressed.  They are on the

floor.  He lies on his back, staring at the ceiling.

She lies next to him -- the torn dress wound around her.

There is a bite mark on her shoulder.  A long beat, silence --

then --

She sits up, looks away.  He looks at her, puts his finger on

the bite mark idly, gently.  A beat, and he kisses her shoulder

gently, then lies back down.

He looks at her.

She looks at him.

They look at each other a long beat.

He says nothing, looks away from her.

He doesn't look at her a long beat, says nothing.

She keeps looking at him.  He won't look at her.

A beat; he looks at her.

She looks at him a long beat.

They look at each other, a long beat, then away.  He lies back

down.  Beth doesn't look at him, keeps sitting up.

He says nothing.

He looks at her; she won't look at him.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - MORNING

He walks in.  He looks hung-over.  He sees Gus with Harrigan

and Andrews and Lt. Walker in Lt. Walker's glass-enclosed office

at the end of this big room.

They look at him when they see him.

He and Nick look at each other a long beat, then --

EXT. THE BEACH HOUSE AT STINSON - DAY

The black Ferrari is in the driveway.  He sits in an unmarked

police car on a hillside above the house, watching.  It is a

bleak, leaden gray day.

Catherine comes out of the house.  She is dressed casually.

She gets into the Ferrari.

INT. HIS POLICE CAR

He stays behind her at a safe distance on the winding panoramic

highway -- a two-lane mountain road which leads from Stinson

Beach into Marin County.

She suddenly starts speeding up on this dangerous road, cutting

in and out, passing cars very fast.

He has to start cutting around cars to keep up.  This woman

really drives.

He cuts out and can barely pass a car without hitting a Grey

Lines Tour Bus head-on.  Close call: sheer drops on either

side.

He looks frazzled.

INT. HIS POLICE CAR

He is behind her at a distance on a hilly Mill Valley road --

little streets, terraced hillsides, sharp turns.

He goes slowly, looks around, thinks he's lost her.  And then

he sees the black Ferrari parked in front of a house obscured

by hedges.

He parks the car a distance behind the Ferrari, sits there a

long beat.  He gets out, goes carefully up to the hedges, looks.

A small, nondescript house.  He watches.  He can't see anything

inside the house.

A beat, he reaches over to the mailbox and opens it.  He takes

an envelope out, looks at the name Hazel Dobkins.

INT. HIS POLICE CAR - NIGHT

He watches as she comes out of the house.  A frail old woman

in her 70's is with her.  She hugs the old woman, gets into

the Ferrari, STARTS it up.

He waits a beat and then STARTS after her.  He stays behind

her at a distance -- she is going slowly.  And then she suddenly

GUNS it, cuts her lights -- her wheels SCREECH.

He GUNS his car after her.  He makes a turn.  She is gone.

There is a fork in the road.  He turns one way, goes a few

hundred feet.

Nothing.  Blackness.  He stops.

INT. HIS POLICE CAR - NIGHT

He pulls his car up to her house at Stinson Beach.  The black

Ferrari is in the driveway.

A light goes on in an upstairs bedroom.  The curtain is drawn.

He sees the outline of her body now.

She starts to take her clothes off -- there in the window,

behind the curtain.  He watches her body as she does an almost

languorous strip.  His eyes are intense... ravishing.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - NIGHT

He is alone, nobody else in the big room.

He sits in front of a computer.  We see the screen.  He has

punched in

HAZEL DOBKINS, WF, 145 ALBION RD., MILL VALLEY.

He is waiting for a response.  We see it come on screen

NOTHING CURRENT.

A long beat, as he stares at the screen, and then we see these

words

RELEASED, SAN QUENTIN, JULY 7, 1965.

We see him type in the words

PRIOR ARREST RECORD.

A long beat, and then it comes up

HOMICIDE, JANUARY 10, 1956 - SAN FRANCISCO

He stares at the screen a long beat.

Nick looks at him a beat.

Nick sits back a long beat, his eyes off somewhere.

Nick just stares at him.

EXT. THE STINSON BEACH HOUSE - NEXT DAY

He pulls up to the house, gets out of his unmarked police car.

He stands there a beat, thinking.  He walks down to the beach

entrance of the house.  He hears a Rolling Stones SONG playing

inside.  He stands there.  The door suddenly opens.  Catherine

stands there, smiles.  She wears very tight-fitting spandex

leotards.

He looks at her a beat, then --

They have their eyes on each other.  A beat, and she turns to

go in.

INT. THE STINSON BEACH HOUSE

She goes in ahead of him -- he follows her inside.  He watches

her body.  His movements are tentative, off-balance.  She turns

the Stones DOWN.

On a table by the window, he sees a word processor.  Spread

around it are newspaper clippings.  They are all about him.

We see the headline on one KILLER COP TO FACE POLICE REVIEW.

She sees him glancing at the clips.

She smiles.  He looks at her, expressionless.

She goes to the bar.

She is making herself a drink.  She takes the ice out and then

opens a drawer and gets an icepick.  It has a fat wooden end.

She uses the icepick on the ice, her back to him.  He watches

her.

She turns to him, icepick in hand, smiles.

She turns back to the ice, works on it with the pick.  She

raises her arm, plunges it.  Raises it, plunges it.  He watches

her.

She puts the icepick down, pours herself a drink, turns to

him.

He looks at her a long beat.

Their eyes are on each other.

A long beat, as they look at each other.

BEAT.

She looks at him a long beat, sips her drink, never takes her

eyes off him.

He stares at her a long beat.

He stares at her, almost horrified.

She steps closer to him.

She puts her hand softly on his cheek,  He grabs her hand

roughly, holds it.

They are face to face.  He is still holding her roughly by the

hand.

He twists her arm back behind her -- their bodies are pressed

against each other -- their eyes digging into each other.

He is twisting her arm, staring at her, pulling her against

him.  We hear the DOOR behind them.  A beat, and he lets her

go, turns away from her.

Roxy stands there, staring at them.  Her hair is up.  She wears

a black motorcycle jacket, a black T-shirt, and black jeans

and cowboy boots.

Roxy looks at Nick.  Catherine goes to her, kisses her briefly

on the lips, stands there with her arm around her --both of

them looking at Nick.

He walks by them, opens the door to go, his face a mask.

He doesn't look at her; he's gone.

INT. BETH GARDNER'S OFFICE - DAY

He comes in.  He looks like he's going to kill someone.  A

RECEPTIONIST sits there.

She gets up -- he goes closer to her; she backs away from him.

He goes closer to her; she backs away.

She says nothing, looks scared.

INT. THE INTERNAL AFFAIRS DIVISION - DAY

He storms into the big room.  He sees MARTY NILSEN.  He is

sitting behind his desk in his glass-enclosed office inside

this big room.  About a dozen plainclothes policemen are in

the big room.  He goes by them into Nilsen's office.

INT. MARTIN NILSEN'S OFFICE

He closes the door.  Nilsen sees the look on his face, backs

his chair away towards the wall.

He goes to him, picks him up by his lapels, slams him against

the wall.

He slams him against the wall again.  The glass EXPLODES behind

them -- a chair comes into the room.  Nick is frozen, holding

Nilsen by the throat against the wall.

He looks back, sees two Internal Affairs men with their guns

drawn, pointed at him.  A beat, and he lets Nilsen go.  He

turns calmly and starts to walk out.

EXT. THE POLICE PARKING LOT - DUSK

He gets into his old Porsche.  He STARTS the car up.  Gus Moran

comes up to the window.  They look at each other a

They look at each other a long beat.

They almost smile at each other, then --

A beat, and then Nick looks at him.

INT. HIS APARTMENT - NIGHT

He sits in front of the TV, watching a lame sitcom.  A bottle

of Jack Daniels is half-empty in front of him.  He is smoking

a cigarette.

He looks at her, looks away at the sitcom.

He keeps watching the sitcom.  A long beat.

He goes to the TV, shuts it off.

A beat, and she suddenly hurls herself at him in absolute fury,

trying to claw at his face.  He grabs her, blocks her.  They

look at each other a long beat and then he lets her go.

The emotion of the moment is gone now -- they turn away from

each other.

Nick looks at her a beat.

A long beat, then --

She looks at him.  He looks away from her.

He turns away from her.

He goes to the Jack Daniel's, pours some more.  She looks at

him pour it and turns to go.

INT. HIS APARTMENT - NIGHT

He is asleep on the couch -- the TV is on to a blank screen.

The Jack Daniel's is mostly gone.  The phone on the coffee

table RINGS.  It RINGS again.  He wakes, picks it up, listens.

He hangs it up.  He sits there a long beat, staring.  He looks

disturbed.

EXT. THE ALLEY BEHIND THE TEN-FOUR BAR - NIGHT

He walks down the alley.  There are lots of police cars,

flashing lights, uniformed men, coroner's men.

As he walks down the alley, he sees Lt. Walker, Gus, and several

of the Internal Affairs men we saw earlier in Nilsen's office.

They are standing around a Lincoln Town Car.

They look at him as he comes closer to them -- then move aside.

He can see into the car now.  Martin Nilsen lies against the

front seat.  He has been shot in the head.  Nick stares.

Nick stares at Nilsen's body.  They watch him.

A beat, and then Nick gives him his gun.  Walker smells it,

shakes his head, gives it to one of the Internal Affairs men.

INT. POLICE INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

He sits in the same room that Catherine sat in --surrounded by

four or five Internal Affairs men, Lt.

Walker, Gus, and Captain Talcott.  Lt. Walker and Gus sort of

sit back -- I.A. is running the investigation.  The same police

stenographer -- the same plain young woman -- is sitting in

the room who was there with Catherine.

Beth Gardner comes into the room.  They look at her.

Nick gives her a look.

Nick looks at her, shrugs.

He looks at Beth.

She and Nick look at each other.  He looks away and lights a

cigarette.

It is the exact line that Catherine used.  A long beat.

They look at him a beat.

INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - NIGHT

He is by the elevators with Gus and Lt. Andrews.  He spots

Beth going for the stairway.

INT. THE STAIRWAY

She stops.  He catches up to her.  They walk down the flights

together.  They speak quietly.

She looks at him, smiles.  They keep walking down the steps.

She looks at him, smiles.

EXT. THE BUILDING - NIGHT

They get outside.  Beth kisses him quickly, softly on the cheek.

He nods.  She starts walking toward her car.

She goes to her car.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - NEXT DAY

He is cleaning his desk out, putting things into a duffel bag.

Only Andrews is in the room.  We see Lt. Walker sitting in his

glass-enclosed office.

He closes the duffel bag, looks at the place a long beat.

Andrews is watching him.  He goes up to Andrews

A beat, and Andrews opens the file.

He sees Lt. Walker looking at him.  He goes into Walker's

office.

Lt. Walker looks at him a long beat.

EXT. HIS APARTMENT

It is in the Marina District; on a street like Cervantes.

He gets out of his old Porsche; he sees her black Ferrari there.

She is sitting on the front stoop.  She wears an Indian jacket,

jeans and a T-shirt.  He goes up to her. She looks at him a

beat.

She smiles.

She looks at him a beat.

He looks at her a beat.

They start walking inside.  She walks ahead of him.  He watches

her.  She turns suddenly.

And she turns, heads inside; he follows her.

INT. HIS APARTMENT - DAY

They walk in.  She looks at the bareness of the place.

She turns, smiles at him.  He looks at the bottle of Jack

Daniel's; there's not much left.

There is a palpable tension between them.

He takes the ice out, opens a drawer, takes out an icepick.

She smiles; a beat and he hands her the icepick.  She takes

it, starts to us the icepick, her back to him.  He lights a

cigarette.

He watches her working on the ice.

He does, steps to her.  She parts her lips -- he puts it on

her lip, watches it.  Their eyes are on each other.

She works on the ice again, opens the cabinets for glasses.

She makes the drinks.

She hands him his drink, holds hers.

They look at each other a long beat, their eyes very involved.

Their faces are close together.

A beat, and she suddenly turns away.

She goes to her purse, takes a paperback book out of it.  We

see it -- The First Time, by Catherine Smith.  He looks at it.

He stares at her.  A long beat, then --

They look at each other a beat.

He watches her; she has turned away from him -- and then she

turns back to him in a different mood.

She looks at him; she smiles.

They look at each other a long beat.

He nods, say nothing as she goes to the door --

She looks at him a long beat; and she's gone.

INT. THE STAIRWAY

As she is going down the stairs, Gus Moran is coming up.

He does a real double-take as he goes by her.

He looks at him a long beat, and he goes upstairs, into Nick's

apartment.

INT. NICK'S APARTMENT

Nick stands at the window, watching her outside.  A long beat,

and he looks at Gus.

INT. JOHNNY BOZ'S CLUB - NIGHT

It is dark, cavernous there are a thousand people in here.

The MUSIC is ear-splitting, pulsing.  Lights flash.

The floor is huge.  At one time, this club was a church.

He walks around the sides, a drink in his hand, looking for

her.  He doesn't see her.

The he catches a glimpse of Roxy.  She is dancing with another

woman.  He watches her.  She is wearing pants and a jacket,

her hair off to the side.  She looks very masculine tonight.

Roxy laughs at the other woman, leaves her on the floor, starts

moving through the sea of dancers.  He follows her through the

press of bodies.  She goes towards the men's room.  She walks

in.

INT. THE MEN'S ROOM

It is large, dark, shadowy It was once the sacristy.

A crowd scene men and women. Roxy presses through them.

A haze of crack smoke; we see people doing poppers.

She opens the door to a toilet stall, walks in.  Nick is behind

her.  As the door opens, he sees Catherine.

She wears a black motorcycle jacket, a very short skirt,

stiletto heels.  Her hair is up.  He make-up is severe,  In

the darkness, in the shadows she looks about 19.  A hot 19.

A hot flash-trash 19.

She is in there with two men -- one of them is a big, body-

built black guy.  She has a vial of something near her face.

She sees Nick watching her.  She whispers something to the

tall black guy.  He looks at Nick, smiles a condescending smile.

The door to the stall closes

INT. THE CLUB

He is walking along the side, watching the floor, a drink in

his hand.  The song ends and it seques right into the Stones's

"Miss You."

He sees her.  Her black leather jacket is off.

She wears a very tight, flimsy top, the short skirt, the heels.

She is dancing with Roxy and the black guy.  He watches her

move... watches her body.

She turns, sees him, dances, watches him... gets between Roxy

and the black guy... they sandwich her with their bodies...

keeps moving, turning... eyes on him... playing to him with

her body.  He watches.

A long beat, and he goes up to them.  His movements are

almost trance-like.  They look at each other.  A long beat.

Catherine stops dancing.  he reaches for her.  She moves away.

A beat their eyes are on each other.  She moves a step towards

her.  A beat, as they look at each other...  and they start to

move together.

Their eyes are on each other as they move, the eyes burning...

the movements tighter, hotter... and he suddenly grabs her and

kisses her... as they keep moving... the song seques into the

Stones's "Gimme Shelter."

She is melting into him now, kissing him... Tex watches,

expressionless... the black guy is gone... he holds her by the

back of the neck, kissing her... their bodies pressed into

each other... his hands are on her butt now, pulling her into

him now, almost holding her up now... and then under her skirt,

under her panties... as he kisses her neck.

People around them stare... he moves his hands under her top

as she keeps moving with the song, her head back, her back

almost arching... cups her breasts now... she keeps moving...

the song sweeping them into its rhythm "it's just a shot away,

it's just a kiss away, a kiss away..."

They devour each other.  Right there on the floor.  Barely

able to hold it back.  As Tex watches expressionless.  As people

stop dancing and stare.

INT. HER BEDROOM

It is dark.  We can't see clearly.  A side table, lines of

cocaine on a small mirror.  A CD player The Stones play "Love

In Vain."

There are mirrors all over the walls and ceiling.  They are in

bed.  The bed is big and brass.

Atop her... he kisses her neck... his hands under her, raising

her... he moves down, kisses her breasts... puts his mouth

around  a breast... she arches, moves... he kisses her

shoulder... biting into it... she opens her mouth... we hear

no cry... we hear the Stones.

INT. HER BEDROOM - LATER

The Stones play "Monkey Man."

Atop him... she kisses his chest, licks it, lowers her head...

lower... lower... he arches his back... her mouth comes up...

her mouth on his lips again... he turns her.

Atop her... he moves her legs apart... (the CAMERA is behind

them)... she holds his back... digs in her nails...  rakes his

back with them... digs in again... his back bleeds... he moves

inside her... harder... the nails dig...  blood trickles down

his back.

INT. HER BEDROOM - LATER

The Stones play "Wild Horses."

He is behind her... she is on her stomach... he rises her by

her hips... kisses her back... races her spine with his

tongue... traces her lower back... he kneels... moves into

her... kisses her neck... his fingers are in her mouth...  as

he moves.

INT. HER BEDROOM - LATER

The Stones play "Sympathy for the Devil."

Atop him... she leans close over his face, her tongue in his

mouth... kneeling over him... she moves his arms above his

head... moves higher atop him... her breasts in his face...

she reaches over to the side... a white silk scarf is in her

hand... she moves higher above him... kneeling over his face...

moving oh-so-slightly... his face strains towards her.

The scarf in both hands now... she starts to tie his hands

with it... his eyes are open, watching her... she ties it

loosely, gently... it isn't tight... but his hands are tied to

the brass bed.

She kisses him... moving her hips lower now... over his chest...

lower...

And he is inside her... her arms above him... his eyes open...

she kisses his neck... bites but not hard...  moves... grinding

hard against him now.. she is on her knees... head arches back..

her breasts high.. still grinding.

Her back arches, strains... he strains toward her... she holds

her arms high... she comes out of the arch...  shivering...

falling over him... the scarf loosens... his arms come forward

and hold her close.. closer... closer...  as she moves with

slight... shivery... movements.

INT. HER BEDROOM - NIGHT

It is dark, quiet.  Pindrop quiet.  He is sitting on the side

of the bed, his head down... his back a line tracing of dried

blood.  She is asleep nest to him, naked.

He looks around the room.  The white scarf around the bedpost...

the coke on the side-table... clothes all over the floor.

He gets up, walks into the bathroom.

INT. HER BEDROOM - NIGHT

The light is too bright.  He looks at himself in the mirror.

He pours the water, lowers his head, puts cold water on his

face.  A long beat, he comes back up, opens his eyes.  Roxy is

in the mirror behind him.  She startles him.

He looks at her in the mirror a long beat, doesn't turn.

She is expressionless; she wears the same thing she wore at

the club.

He lowers down into the basin again, puts more water on his

face, comes back up, uses a towel this time, finishes with the

towel.  She is still looking at him in the mirror the same

way.  He looks at her in the mirror, doesn't turn.

He looks at her a beat, then turns --

For a second, she looks like she's going to spring at him,

then controls it and turns to go.

And she turns and she is gone.

INT. HER BEDROOM - NIGHT

He lies on the bed in the dark, quiet room.  He is on his back,

his eyes open.  He has his arm around her.  She is asleep.

He looks at her.

INT. HER BEDROOM - MORNING

He wakes up.  She is not there.  He looks around.  The white

scarf is gone.  The coke on the side table is gone.

In its place, a scrawled note "The Beach -- C."

EXT. HER STINSON BEACH HOUSE - DAY

A cold and foggy day.  He gets out of his old Porsche, walks

down the driveway.  He sees her out on the beach by the water.

A small bonfire is near her.  He walks towards her.

Roxy watches him, expressionless, from an upstairs window of

the house.  He doesn't see her.

He walks up to Catherine.  She has an Indian blanket over her

and is wearing a black felt English derby hat, her hair loose

underneath.

She doesn't look at him -- he smiles slowly.  She doesn't smile

and she doesn't seem to like his smile, either.  She walks

along the beach.  He walks with her.  A long beat.

She looks at him.  He looks like he is trying to hide a smile.

That wipes the hidden smile off his face.  He looks at her,

walks with her.  A long beat.

She looks at him; he's smiling now.

He's serious.  She looks at him.  She smiles slowly.

He can't hide his smile anymore.  She says nothing, keeps

walking.

They look at each other.  They keep walking.  A long beat.

He looks at her: she's serious.

She looks at him.

They keep walking.  A long beat.

She stops, looks at him.  A long beat.

A beat, he looks at her --

The keep walking.

She looks a him.  A beat.  She smiles slowly.

They keep walking.  A long beat.

He looks at her.

They look at each other.  A long beat.

Their eyes are into each other.

A long beat.  They look at each other.

A beat, and she walks away towards the house.  He watches her.

INT. A COUNTRY AND WESTERN BAR - NIGHT

Nick walks in.  Waylon Jennings is on the JUKEBOX.  Gus is

sitting at the bar wearing jeans, a cowboy shirt, and a cowboy

hat.

Nick goes, sits next to him.

He glances around.

He is drunk, slurring.  Nick sees it.

Gus takes a long, drunken look at him.

INT. A DINER - NIGHT

Gus is eating chili, drinking coffee.  Hick keeps pouring him

more coffee.

Nick pours him more coffee; Gus guzzles it.

It gets some looks from the other people in her -- Nick shushes

him, pours him more coffee.  He drinks it.

Some people here really give him the looks now.  Gus looks

angrily away from them, drinks more coffee.

They look at each other a long beat.  Gus drinks more coffee.

He sits back, pulls his cowboy hat over his eyes.

A long beat.

He looks at the fat woman again -- leers at her obscenely.

She looks away.

Nick looks at him and smiles a thin smile; he's not there,

he's completely preoccupied.

INT. A CAR - NIGHT

Someone is watching as he and Gus come out of the diner.

EXT. THE STREET - NIGHT

He stands by Gus as Gus gets into his battered, rusted, vintage

Cadillac.

And he steps on the gas and ROARS out of there, forcing Nick

to get out of the way.  Nick looks after him a long beat, shakes

his head.

INT. A CAR - NIGHT

Someone is following him slowly as he walks down the street.

He turns a corner, walks down the alley towards his Porsche,

parked behind the country and western bar.

The car suddenly speeds up -- ROARS down on him from the back,

full bore.

EXT. THE ALLEY

He hurls himself across the Porsche's hood... barely avoiding

the car.  He sees the car at the end of the alley, turning out

It is a black Ferrari.

INT. HIS PORSCHE

He GUNS it down the alley, makes a wild turn in the direction

the Ferrari turned.

EXT. THE STREET

The Porsche dodges around cars very fast, almost side-swiping

them, looking almost out of control, its MOTOR screaming.

INT. THE PORSCHE

He sees the Ferrari turn ahead.  When he gets to where it

turned, he turns wildly.

EXT. THE STREET

The Ferrari is making fast, wild turns into little streets in

North Beach, its MOTOR screaming -- the Porsche is gaining

ground behind it, making turns.

INT. THE PORSCHE

The Ferrari is up ahead and makes a wild right turn onto a

road going up a hillside.  He yanks the wheel hard.

EXT. THE STEPS

The Porsche rockets up the steps -- bouncing high into the

air, almost out of control.

INT. THE PORSCHE

As it crests the steps and gets to the street.  Nick GUNS it

and it looks like it flies high down the hill-side into

blackness.

EXT. THE STREET

But it lands on more steps -- heading downward -- bucking,

almost spinning, it bounces onto the next street.

INT. THE PORSCHE

Another set of steps leading up he GUNS it, it rockets up,

ROARS, bucking --

EXT. THE STREET

And lands on the next street.  Nick makes a wild right turn

onto the street.  And the black Ferrari appears from around a

curve to the right, heading right for him.

INT. THE PORSCHE

Nick steps on the GAS and heads head-on for the Ferrari.

The Ferrari SCREAMS head-on for him.

EXT. THE STREET

And at the last moment, in the game of chicken, the Ferrari

tries to swerve around him on this narrow road, goes out of

control and over the side, turning over and over as it rolls

down the hillside.

EXT. THE HILLSIDE

The Ferrari has landed right-side up.

He runs down the hillside and gets to it.  A beat, and he opens

the car door.

Roxy lies hunched over the wheel, her eyes open.  Her neck is

broken.  She is dead.

EXT. THE HILLSIDE - NIGHT

Police lights have been set up.  He stands there with Lt.

Walker and several of the Internal Affairs men.

He and Nick look at each other a long beat.  Andrews comes up

to them with a piece of paper in his hand.

Lt. Walker looks at Nick like he's going to kill him.  Nick

looks calmly away.

Walker looks at him in absolute disbelief.

They stare at him.  He watches as Roxy's body is taken away.

INT. A POLICE CONFERENCE ROOM -DAY

He walks in.  He looks good, in control.  Beth Gardner is

sitting there with two middle-aged MEN, both of them wearing

suits, who smile and scrutinize him the instant he walks in

the door.

They shake hands with him.

Nick gives him a look: What did he think he was going to do --

stand there?

He sits down, looks at them.  A beat, as they look at him,

then --

Nick looks at them a long beat in disbelief.

INT. THE CORRIDOR

He is walking away quickly.  Beth is with him, trying to keep

up.  She is very angry.

A beat, he stops looks at her, then keeps walking.

He stops, looks at her.

She looks at him a long beat.

A beat, and she turns and walks away.

EXT. ROAD TO STINSON HOUSE - DAY

Nick is driving down winding road to Stinson house.  He is

driving very fast, passing other cars on the winding and

twisting road.

INT. THE STINSON BEACH HOUSE - DAY

Nick enters and shuts door.  Looking around, he does not see

her.

Finally he sees her sitting by the window.  He walks over to

her.

She is about to break into uncontrolable sobbing.  Nick puts

his arms around her.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

They are seen rolling and turning around on each other.

Their love making is sensual, sincere.

Later in bed.

A long beat, he looks at her.

EXT. THE DECK - MORNING

It is a bright, sunshiny day.  He is out there looking at the

water.  She comes up behind him, hugs him.

He looks at her.

She looks hurt.

They have their eyes on each other.

She turns away from him.  He watches her.

A beat, she looks at him.

She turns away from him.

Their eyes are on each other.

And she kisses him slowly, with more and more heat, on the

lips.

The cordless phone on the deck table goes off.  It keeps

RINGING.  She breaks finally from the kiss, picks it up.

She listens a beat, then hands him the phone.

He takes the phone.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY

EXT. HER DECK - STINSON

Catherine sees him smile.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY

EXT. HER DECK

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY

She watches him.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY

INT. CLOVERDALE POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY

In CLOSEUP: We see a large, glossy photograph of Roxy.

She looks about thirteen.  She has braces in her teeth.

Nick is looking at the photo -- it is in a file in his hands.

He sits there with Gus in front of a woman juvenile officer.

He turns the file and we see a glossy of a little boy in a

pool of blood.

Nick looks up at the woman.

They stare at her.

INT. CLOVERDALE POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY

It is a small, old, rural buildinga lot of Four-H type stuff

on the walls.

EXT. THE CLOVERDALE POLICE DEPARTMENT

They are going to their cars, parked side by side.  The Porsche

looks pretty badly banged up.

Nick looks at him.

Nick get into his car, sits there a beat.

Nick looks at him.

INT. THE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE - U.C. BERKELEY

A young woman is checking a computer.  Nick is with her.

She gives him a look, but punches it in again.

He looks at her.

EXT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE ON DIVISADERO - DAY

He gets out of the Porsche, starts to go in.  He looks disturbed

Catherine comes out of the house with Hazel Dobkins, the old

woman we saw with her in Mill Valley.  Nick watches them a

beat, then goes up to them.

He looks at her a long beat.

He looks at her sort of warily.

The old woman starts going to the Ferrari.

Nick looks at Hazel a beat, then at Catherine.

He looks at her a long beat.

She smiles.  He looks at her, doesn't know what to say.

He looks at her What did she say?

America's Most Wanted?  She turns to go.

She stops, looks at him a beat.

He says nothing.  A long beat, she looks hurt.

And she's gone.

INT. A PHONE BOOTH - DAY

He is on the phone.

He waits.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - NIGHT

He sits in front of a computer screen with Andrews.

We see the computer screen.  The screen says LISA HENDERSON

DMV LICENSE CHECK We wait and then we see the words 1983 RENEWAL --

ELIZABETH GARDNER, 147 QUEENSTON DRIVE, SALINAS, CAL.

Nick stares at the screen.

A beat, and then we see the license itself It is Beth Gardner

on the photo.  Nick stares.

A beat, and the license comes up.  We see a young Beth Gardner

on the photo.  She has blonde hair.

Nick stares.

INT. BETH GARDNER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

She walks in.  The apartment is dark.

She is startled.

A beat, she looks at him.

She looks at him a long beat, then turns away --

She looks at him, sees his look.

He looks at her a long beat.

A long beat as they look at each other.

Phil had you copied.  You never said anything!

She turns to him.

Nick looks at her a long beat.

He gets up.  He looks at her a long beat.

He turns to go.

He looks at her.

EXT. HIS APARTMENT - NIGHT

He gets out of his Porsche.  He walks toward the door.

INT. HIS APARTMENT HOUSE - THE STAIRWAY

He starts going up the dark stairway.  There is a hand on his

neck.  He spins.

He looks at her, doesn't say anything.

He looks at her, doesn't say anything.

Catherine looks at him a beat, then smiles.

He just looks at her.

And she's gone.

INT. CAMPUS POLICE RECORDS ROOM - BERKELEY - DAY

He stands with an old CAMPUS COP.  He is going through files.

He stops at a file, opens it.

Nick doesn't get it.

Nick says nothing.

INT. HIS APARTMENT - DAY

He and Gus sit there -- they look tired, upset.

Gus thinks about it.

INT. THE STAIRWAY - HIS APARTMENT HOUSE - NIGHT

He has his key out to open his door.  He hears MUSIC inside.

A beat, and he opens the door.

INT. HIS APARTMENT

It is dark.  We hear a Rolling Stones SONG.  He sees Catherine

standing by a window, watching him.  She wears black jeans and

the black motorcycle jacket.

They look at each other a long beat.

He walks up close to her.

She unzips her motorcycle jacket slowly.  She wears nothing

underneath it.

She reaches for him.

She pulls him close.

INT. HIS LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

They sit in the window seat, naked.  His back is against the

wall.  She sits against him.  He has his legs around her.

They don't look at each other.  She is smoking.

EXT. THE SALINAS CLINIC - DAY

He walks in; it is a small valley hospital.  He goes up to the

desk.  There are two women there.

INT. SALINAS SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY

Nick sits with a sheriff's DETECTIVE.

A long beat, then --

EXT. HER HOUSE IN STINSON - AFTERNOON

He walks around the house; he sees her sitting out on the deck,

a portable word-processor in front of her.  She is smoking.

He goes up to her.

He moves toward her.  She moves away, kills her cigarette.

They look at each other a long beat.

He stares at her.  A long beat.

He stares at her.  He can't believe what she is saying.

He stares at her.

Nick looks -- Hazel Dobkins is there.

Catherine still has her eyes on him.

A beat, and then she turns to go inside.  Hazel Dobkins smiles

slowly at him.

EXT. THE POLICE PARKING LOT - DUSK

He sits in his Porsche, staring ahead.  He is parked next to

Gus' Cadillac.  Gus is suddenly there, onway to his car.

Nick just stares ahead.

Nick looks at him.

INT. GUS' CADILLAC - NIGHT

Gus drives.

Nick doesn't even respond.  Gus looks at him.

Nick doesn't say anything, stares ahead.

EXT. AN OFFICE BUILDING - OAKLAND - NIGHT

Gus gets out with Nick.  It is an old building.

A beat, and Nick gets back in the car.

INT. THE OFFICE BUILDING - NIGHT

Gus is on the first floor.  There is no one around.  He hits

the elevator button.  A beat, and it comes.  He steps in.

INT. THE ELEVATOR - NIGHT

He hits the button for the fourth floor.

The elevator rises a floor, stops.  The door opens.  There is

no one there.  Then it starts going up again.  It rises to the

third floor.  It stops.  The door opens.  There is no one there.

Then it starts to rise again.

EXT. GUS' CADILLAC - NIGHT

Nick sits there, staring ahead.

INT. THE ELEVATOR

As it goes up.  It stops.  The door starts to open.  As it

does -- a figure in a hooded raincoat sweeps into the elevator.

It happens very fast.  We see blonde hair around the face.

But we don't see the face itself -- the head is down, the hood

up.  There is an icepick in the figure's hand.  The figure

explodes into Gus.  The icepick goes into his neck.

INT. THE STAIRWAY

Nick tears desperately up the stairway -- he hits the fourth

floor door.  It explodes open.

INT. THE FOURTH FLOOR

He stands there a beat, sees the elevator door open.  He runs

there,  He sees Gus, crumpled into the corner of the elevator.

INT. THE ELEVATOR

He goes into the elevator -- holds Gus.  He is dead.  A long

beat.  He sees the gun in Gus' hand -- he takes the gun out of

his hand.  He runs out of the elevator.

INT. THE FOURTH FLOOR

He hears something.  Gun in hand, he runs towards the SOUND.

He stops, gun in hand, listens again.  He runs again, hears

nothing.

Behind him, we see a figure.

He spins suddenly, gun, in hand.  Beth Gardner is there.

She wears a windbreaker.  She has her hands in the pockets.

She stares at him.

She smiles a strange smile.  She takes a step toward him.

She smiles strangely again, takes a step toward him.

She moves a hand in a pocket and moves towards him fast --

And he FIRES the gun.  She is hit in the chest, goes down.

A long beat, and then he goes to her.  He gets down on the

ground.  Her eyes are open.  He empties the pockets of the

windbreaker -- first one, then the other the pockets are empty.

And she dies.

INT. THE FOURTH FLOOR - LATER

A lot of policemen, coroner's guys, photos being taken.

Nick stands there with Lt. Walker, Harrigan, and some of the

Internal Affairs guys.

Nick says nothing; he looks like a zombie.

Andrews yells to them from the stairway door.

INT. THE STAIRWAY

A FORENSICS MAN very carefully handles a hooded rain coat in a

stair landing.  He wears gloves.

Nick is there with Lt. Walker.

The Forensics Man picks the raincoat up -- a long blonde wig

falls out of it.  There are flecks of blood on it.

He reaches into the pocket and pulls out an  icepick.  It has

a thin steel handle and is bloody.  He hands the icepick to an

assistant.

He looks at the raincoat.  It has blood on it.

INT. BETH GARDNER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Nick with Lt. Walker.  Nick looks like a zombie.  Andrews comes

up to them.  He has a gun in his hands.

Bottom drawer, bureau in the bedroom.

Harrigan comes out.

Lt. Walker goes into the kitchen.  Nick follows him.

There are several cops around a kitchen cabinet.  A drawer is

open.

Walker looks -- we look with him.  We see a copy of Love hurts,

Catherine's paperback book, and a stack of photos of Catherine.

Walker picks the photos up, goes through them -- we see shots

of Catherine in college -- Catherine at a fight --Catherine

with Johnny Boz -- Catherine with Roxy.

He hands the photos to Nick.

Nick stares at them.

INT. THE DETECTIVE BUREAU - NIGHT

Nick sits, his feet up.  He looks like a zombie.  With him are

Lt. Walker, Andrews, and Captain Talcott.  We see other

plainclothesmen in the b.g. -- a flurry of activity, people on

phones.  A long beat.

Nick says nothing, stares off.

A DETECTIVE comes over to them.

An INTERNAL AFFAIRS MAN comes over to them.

A long beat -- the phone RINGS.  Andrews picks it up, listens.

He hangs up.

A long beat -- Nick just stares.

Harrigan comes up to them.

A long beat.

He and Nick look at each other a beat.

Nick looks at him, expressionless.

EXT. HIS APARTMENT - NIGHT

He parks his car.  It is dark.  Foggy.

He starts heading inside.

INT. HIS APARTMENT - NIGHT

He goes in.  He starts to walk up the dark stairway, we see

him walking up several flights of steps.

INT. THE CORRIDOR TO HIS APARTMENT

He opens his door with his key.

INT. HIS APARTMENT

He walks in.  The apartment is dark.

It is a whisper, almost a hiss.  He spins, fast.  Catherine

stands there, pressing herself against a wall.  They look at

each other a long beat.  She looks like she is almost in a

trance.

He looks at her, expressionless.  A long beat, their eyes are

into each other.  She looks like she is almost shivering.

She looks very emotional.  He moves towards her, puts his arms

around her, holds her very close.

He presses her closer and closer to himself, holds her.

INT. HIS BEDROOM - NIGHT

It is dark; we can't see clearly.

Atop her... he makes love to her... gently... tenderly...

hardly moving inside her... there are tears in her eyes...

INT. HIS BEDROOM - LATER

Atop him... she is on her knees, straddling him... he is on

his back, his eyes are closed... her head arches back...  her

breasts high... he strains toward her with his body...  she

holds her arms high... her right hand is in a fist...

(we only see the back of her hand and arm)... it comes down

suddenly... he bucks... writhes... then her whole body falls

on top of him.

A very long beat...

We can't see him... her body completely covers him...

And then finally he moves... turns her to the side...  kisses

her.

INT. HIS BEDROOM - LATER

The Stones play "Sympathy For The Devil"  in the b.g.; the

MUSIC is low.

They lie next to each other on the bed.  The CAMERA faces them.

He lies, staring at the ceiling, on the left side of the bed,

smoking a cigarette.  She is curled away from him toward the

right side of the bed.  A long beat, then --

We see her right arm go to the side of the bed and then over.

He stares at the ceiling.

We see from an ANGLE to the left side of the bed now Her face

is expressionless.  Her right arm dangles over the right side

of the bed.  Her right hand is clenched.  Is she holding

something in it against her arm?

We see them from an ANGLE to the left side of the bed now: He

turns his body away from her to put out his cigarette.

We see her behind him slowly turning towards him and the CAMERA.

A beat, and he turns towards her.

They look at each other.  A long beat as the SONG gets louder.

We see them in CLOSEUP.  We don't see her right arm.

A beat, and he kisses her.  The CAMERA BACKS AWAY from them

slowly to the right side of the bedroom as they kiss, and we --

... A long beat, as the SONG keeps playing... and we...

FADE IN:

We see them from the right side of the bedroom.  And then the

CAMERA LOWERS SLOWLY as they kiss with more and more passion.

It keeps going LOWER.

There is something under the bed.  The CAMERA MOVES CLOSER

towards it as "SYMPATHY FOR THE DEVIL" plays louder.  We see

it now in CLOSEUP as the bed rustles above...

It is a thin, steel-handled icepick.

The SONG plays LOUDER and LOUDER, and we --

