FADE IN:

EXT. ROAD - WINTER DAY

A police car, nothing more than a speck on the landscape, is intermittently

visible through the blowing snow.

INT. POLICE CAR - SAME

A CORPORAL (20s), behind the wheel, with a bored DETECTIVE BOYLE (60s)

at his side.

The Corporal looks forward.

CAR'S POV: Through the windshield of a WOMAN (40s), dressed in her

pajamas and a parka, skipping down the middle of the road.

EXT. ROAD

The police car pulls to a stop, just as the woman does a pirouette and falls

over backwards.

Detective Boyle and the other Cop get out and walk over.

The Woman kicks up a leg, wiggles her foot.

As they lift her up...

The dumpster lid opens on a bitterly cold, gray winter's day in an Alaskan city.  A

chunky, shivering HAIR STYLIST with jet black bangs shakes out a box of

conditioning samples.

The dumpster lid BANGS shut, reopens a beat later. A moment of calm until

two garbage bags SLAM against the inside of the lid. It falls shut with a CLANG.

The lid reopens. Night time now, as a street lamp BUZZES to life. A middle

aged MAN in work clothes checks to make sure he's alone. He gently lowers

the lid, opens it again a moment later, this time balancing a mini-bar fridge on

his shoulder.  He dumps the appliance into the bin and runs off.

The lid reopens.  SIRENS off in the distance...

The lifeless body of a fair-sized man comes CRASHING into the garbage.

SIRENS closer.  A man seen only in silhouette leans in to pull some garbage

over the corpse.  A second man looks in, then pulls the first man away.

The lid drops.

Black.  The dumpster reopens. Morning now. A Korean-American  TEENAGER

wearing an apron and headphones sings along to an  old KISS tune as he

deposits two large orange garbage bags.

He shuts the lid with care.  Black.

A cookie-cutter subdivision.  Old pine trees poke through the snow cover that

blankets the neighborhood.  HOWARD (30s), a burly outdoors type, is trying to

unload a new snowmobile from the back of his pickup.  TED WATTERS (late

20s) half hidden under a heavy dress coat, walks down the street. He stops by

Howard's driveway.

Ted walks up the driveway, grabs the wood slats, makes a ramp by leaning

them against the rear bumper.

Howard maneuvers the snowmobile down the ramp, his back turned toward

Ted -- who has taken out a small cam-corder and is taping Howard.

Howard finally has the snowmobile on the ground.  He's breathing heavy as he

pulls off his mitt to shake hands.

As Ted and Howard continue to talk, we PULL BACK to reveal we are watching

Ted's video playing on a VCR that is --

A group of office WORKERS look on, very much impressed, as a stunned

Howard stares at the camera.

TIGHT ON: WATTERS at his nearby cubicle, typing frenetically on his computer.

At first, he appears to be working, until we realize that on his computer screen

pixilated Zombies die in silent anguish beneath an unholy hail of bullets.  A

Miami Dolphins sticker is the sole cubicle decoration.

As the tape finishes, a smattering of APPLAUSE from his colleagues.  Ted

gives a small wave over the cubicle wall.

CAM (30s), Native-American Alaskan walks over. Ted immediately hits a key

that turns the screen to a spread-sheet.

Good enough.  Cam moves off.  Back to the zombie blood bath.  The phone

RINGS.  Ted picks up, his eyes never wavering from the gore intensive

computer game.

A final key stroke separates one last zombie from its entrails.

TIGHT ON: A MOUNTED SALMON

We PULL BACK to see the walls lined with souvenirs of a life spent on the

edge of the wilderness; citations from the Rotarians, pictures of sponsored

hockey teams... We are --

FRANK BRANCH (50s), a mid-level management type sits across from PAUL

BARNELL (40s), a mild-mannered everyman wrapped in a cheap suit.  Paul

takes in the display.  The two men sit in silence, smiling politely at one another.

Branch is about to answer when Ted enters with a slim file.

Handshakes.  Paul makes steady eye contact.  Ted notices.

Ted sits and flips open the file.

Ted smiles to himself.

Ted flips the file shut.  Case closed.  Branch, not entirely happy with Ted's

demeanor, forces a smile.

Branch looks at Ted.  Ted turns to Paul.

The city skyline rises in the distance as heat vents belch steam against the

rapidly setting sun.  But that's miles away.  Here on the outskirts is a rapidly

failing five store strip mall; a "Porn-a-copia" XXX Video store, hair stylist,

small engine repair shop, fish and chips joint and the "Barnell Great Escapes"

travel agency.  We might notice a big trash dumpster in the corner.  Paul's car,

a Ford Taurus, pulls onto the parking pad.

Paul driving, talking on his cell phone and balancing a big non-spill metallic

travel coffee mug at the same time.

Paul, wound up, taps his brakes too hard.  His mug falls, the lid pops and the

coffee proceeds to soak a stack of papers.

Paul parks his car, gathers the soggy papers and gets out.

Paul, still on the phone, carries the papers to the dumpster.

Black.  Paul opens the lid.  The phone is cradled in his neck, he checks each

soggy page to make sure he's not tossing anything important.

Paul looks over to see some MEN from Rodney's Repo Ranch walking up to

the front door of his office.  Distracted for a moment, the phone slips and falls

into the trash.

Paul, muttering, leans in to get it.  He pushes aside an orange garbage bag,

guided by the faint sound of the other person STILL TALKING. And then--

PAUL'S POV: of THE BODY-- a 40-ish White (well, a little blue) male dressed in

a cheap suit.  Paul's phone lies across the corpse's mouth, like the dead guy is

talking.

A SHOUT as Paul jumps back from the dumpster. The lid CRASHES down as

he scrambles/slides away.  He takes a moment to compose himself, then

realizes his phone is still in there.

He opens the dumpster lid and very quickly reaches in, grabs his cell and

hurries off.  The lid CRASHES shut.

Hung up.  Paul dials 911, looks back at the dumpster, thinks for a second, then

hits END.  He stands there, thinking.

Paul back in his office, staring out the window with a perfect view of the

dumpster.  He can't take his eyes off it.

Behind him, the Repo-Men are picking up a newish computer monitor and

walking toward the door.  He's oblivious.

At the sound of a TRUCK, his head snaps around.  It's a garbage truck, but

instead of heading to the dumpster, it rumbles past on the road.  That's all it

takes.

Paul backs his Ford Taurus up to the dumpster, pops the trunk, checks to

make sure he's alone then steps up on the rear bumper, opens the lid and

clambers inside.

Black.  The fridge door opens, the light revealing several cans of pop and beer

in the foreground.  Behind the

beverages, a garage where Paul struggles with the lifeless body.  He props the

man against the hood of his car, gives him a quick once over, pockets, obvious

wounds.  Nothing.

Paul moves to the fridge, starts to pull things out.

Jodie, an annoyingly small dog, enters the garage from the house and starts

sniffing around the body.  A new chew toy!

He SHOOS the dog back into the house.  Paul moves back to the fridge, opens

the door and, with great effort picks up the dead man and tries to stuff him

inside.  Only problem...

The man's legs don't want to fit.  Paul leans down and grabs an uncooperative

appendage.  He grits his teeth, looks away as he kicks at the knee.  It SNAPS

sideways.

Paul fights nausea.  But with the leg now out of joint, the man fits.  Paul,

breathing heavy, leans against the door.

He packs in the remaining space with beer and pop bottles.  Then, just before

he shuts the door, Paul reaches in and sets the fridge temperature from 1 to 9

(the coldest setting).

A padlock and chain come from the base of a propane BBQ.  It goes around the

fridge, the lock SNAPS it in place.  Paul spots some leftover drink cans.  He

kicks them to the corner and walks into the house, trying to sound casual.

Ted drives home through a wooded section of town.

Ted checks out various radio stations, hating everything.  He lands on one

playing "Escape (The pina Colada Song)" when he looks up and suddenly

jams on the brakes.

Ted car slides toward a moose that has wandered into the middle of the road.

The car stops about five feet away.

The moose looks at Ted.  Ted looks back, wondering what he ever did to

deserve the life he's stuck with.  After a moment, the moose lumbers off.  Ted

drives on.

TIGHT ON: A COMPUTER SCREEN where swirling signs of the Zodiac act as a

screen saver.  PULL BACK TO REVEAL we are --

A telephone cord runs from the computer to the headset of TIFFANY (20s), pert,

smart and dressed in a tight University of Alaska T-shirt.  Tiffany sits with her

feet up on the desk as she flips through a copy of "Cosmo".

It's a medium sized apartment, littered with guy stuff although bowing to

advancing signs of feminine influence.

The phone RINGS.  Tiffany hits the space bar.  The caller's number flashes on

screen.  By the second ring, an electronic timer kicks in and a complete file on

the caller appears with name, address, background, pets...  She smiles, hits

"enter."

A KEY IN THE DOOR.  A tired Ted walks inside.

Tiffany looks up, then holds up a file folder with the words "WORKING -

SHHHHHH!" in big black letters.

Ted SIGHS, gives her a quick peck on the cheek as he wrestles off his winter

gear and heads to the kitchen.

Ted looks into the fridge, making up new words to the song "Escape."

Ted pulls out some Tupperware, tries to figure out what's in it.  Tiffany, still

wearing her headset, appears behind him, grabs a Diet Coke from the fridge

and kisses him on the cheek.

Ted grabs a fork, takes the pot and sits at the table.  Tiffany goes back to her

desk and flips through her magazine.

She picks up her magazine.

She hangs up.  Turns back to Ted, about to pick up where she left off...

The PHONE RINGS.  Tiffany bolts to her desk, sits, spins in her chair as she

answers the call.

Tiffany at her computer, enters the name "Margaret Barnell" into her database.

Tiffany works a "mute" button as she points back to the magazine.

Ted, cooking pot in hand, walks over to her desk.

Tiffany returns to her call, but keeps looking at Ted.

Ted pretends to do just that, drawing a giggle from Tiffany before he walks off.

Paul tries to open the front door, but finds it blocked by a small pile of snow.

Three good yanks and it finally opens. He enters the shop.

Faded travel posters cover the walls.  AVIS (40s), a career office gal, smiles at

her boss as she assembles a life-size stand-up cardboard display for Aloha

Airlines.  It features a

dark Hawaiian beauty holding a softball sized sea shell.  The shell juts out of

the display giving it a 3-D quality.

Paul, shivering, hangs up his coat as Avis picks up a promotional Aloha Air

surfboard (the old display) and walks it to the back.

Paul moves to his desk.

Paul turns to look at the snow covered empty parking lot, then at a photo of his

wife Margaret on his desk.  He mentally gathers himself.

Avis arrives with the coffee and the mail.

Paul puts the mail down on the desk and start to flip through it.  Lots of bills,

most marked past due.  He finds a "pre- approved" credit card application, sets

it to one side.

Paul, a flash of panic, looks over at the Hawaii display.  He keys on the shell.

MARGARET BARNELL (early 40s) stands in a plush bathrobe and slippers.

Despite her casual attire she is immaculately made up as she walks to the

front door, opening it on -- a young wholesome PAPERBOY smiling through the

cold.

The paperboy, unfazed, smiles as Margaret walks off.

Margaret gives the paperboy his money, the stamp card plus a dollar tip, then

tweaks his nose.  Twice.

He trots down the walk as Margaret shuts the door.

The lid opens.  GARY and JIMBO (30s), check to insure they're not being

watched.  Gary, slightly effeminate, leans into the bin and BURROWS through

the garbage.  Jimbo, a bear of man, keeps watch.  He's nervous, a little out of

sorts.

No response.  Gary, HUMMING now, keeps digging, finding nothing.

Gary hops inside as his actions become more frantic.  Still no luck.  He stands.

Jimbo glares at his partner.

Gary, embarrassed, digs in the trash with his feet.

Margaret, still in her bathrobe, walks to the fridge.  As she puts her hand on the

latch, she notices the pile of pop cans on the floor.

She tugs on the door.  It opens just a crack before the chain stops it.  The

frozen head peeks through the slight gap.

Margaret SIGHS, tries to push the fridge door closed, but the body is in the way.

She gives the door a hip check.  The door latches shut while something frozen

and brittle inside CRACKS.  Margaret, oblivious, walks away.

A chicken sits in a pan, the rest of the room visible behind it through the oven

door window.

Paul walks to the oven, opens the door and pats the chicken.  Stone cold.

Paul smiles bravely as he shuts the oven door.  Behind the chicken, Margaret

doesn't look happy as Paul starts to explain.  She rushes from the room.

Home video of RAYMOND (then early 30s), fat, physically imposing and the only

person not in festive tropical gear, standing in a VFW hall decorated in a

Caribbean theme. (He is definitely not the same person Paul has cooling in the

fridge.)  A large banner behind him proclaims "HAPPY 10TH ANNIVERSARY -

BON VOYAGE."

A younger, somewhat tipsy Paul comes into frame, puts an arm around his

brother and smiles.

Raymond shakes his brother's arm off his shoulder.

The crowd LAUGHS as Paul reaches over and musses up his brother's hair.

Raymond, furious, grabs his brother by the lapels and throws him roughly to

the floor.  The laughter stops.

The screen turns to snow.  We are...

Paul at his desk, watching the video on a small TV in the wall unit.  He turns his

attention to a large cardboard box filled with documents, souvenirs, old report

cards...

On the TV playing behind him (the second part of the tape), Margaret is pictured

on a cruise ship, sunning herself.  Paul, obviously behind the camera, watches

as Margaret takes a tropical drink from a WAITER'S tray, who promptly dumps it

all over her.  But instead of the expected burst of profanity, Margaret just

LAUGHS.

Paul puts aside a faded hotel postcard from Hawaii and digs out an insurance

policy out of the box.  On the last page is a list of the payouts.  Loss of a limb:

$100,000.  Loss of thumb: $5,000. Accidental death: $1,000,000.

And, as an extra bonus, Raymond's birth certificate.  Perfect. Paul takes out the

credit card application from work, and starts to write...

LAUGHING children on toboggans, inner tubes and discarded cardboard

boxes slide down a snow covered hill against a slate gray sky.  It's an isolated

area on the outskirts of the city.

Gary and Jimbo sit in their car in the parking area.

Jimbo mimics snapping someone's neck.  It's clearly not a gesture he enjoys.

As Gary looks at him, a Cadillac pulls up beside them.  Behind the wheel is

DAVE (50s) well dressed, in a thuggish kinda way.  Jimbo and Gary share a

nervous look.

About 50 yards away from the two cars, Gary's NEPHEW is having his

Snowrider (a tricycle with skis instead of wheels) hijacked by a playground

BULLY in a red parka.  A tug o' war for the toy ensues as Gary and Jimbo get

out of their car.

Gary and Jimbo are leaning close to the Cadillac's open window. Dave does

not look happy.

Gary waves to his nephew.

Jimbo knows better than to argue.  He strips down, exposing his corpulent

middle-aged belly to the chilly winter winds.

Gary is about to comply when the sound of a FIGHT on the tobogganing hill

causes them all to look over, just in time to see GARY'S NEPHEW shoved to

ground.  The Bully LAUGHS as he slides away.

Gary trots toward the hill.  Jimbo can't believe it.

Jimbo turns back to Dave, shrugging sheepishly.

Behind them on the hill, Gary tries to retrieve his nephew's Snowrider from the

Bully.  He is failing.

While Jimbo does his best to stay warm, behind him on the hill, Gary can only

watch as the Bully slides away.

Dave drives off as Gary walks over with his SNIFFLING nephew.

HIGH ANGLE ON:  Paul and Margaret in bed.  Margaret takes up more than her

share of the bed, her arm tossed over her husband.  Paul, on his third of the

bed, looks as if he's lying in state. But Paul's not sleeping.

A newspaper clears the "For Sale - price reduced!" sign on the front lawn and

lands with a THUD on the steps.

Paul has the "Morning News" on the hood of his car.  He looks over at the

fridge, still padlocked.

He flips through each section.  There's nothing.  Paul walks to the fridge.

Paul, somewhat befuddled, gently pats the fridge door.

Margaret pushes the vacuum across the floor, humming to herself.  Paul walks

by slipping into his coat.  He notices that the vacuum isn't plugged in.  Without

missing a beat, he walks over and plugs it into the outlet.  The VACUUM

ROARS TO LIFE.  Margaret doesn't flinch.  Paul heads out the door.

A ways out in the forest.  Only two houses on this turn-out; a cozy looking lived

in cabin sits up the road from a seemingly deserted rundown mobile home.  A

car pulls up.

Paul adjusts a pillow he has taped to his stomach, then pulls on a blue ski

mask.

Paul undoes the bungee cord and drags his snowblower out of the trunk.  He

fires up the snowblower and starts to plow the drive way of both houses.

MRS. WHERRY (80s), in her bathrobe, looks out the window of the cozy cabin.

A tad confused, she waves to the man in the blue parka.  The blue parka waves

back.

Paul walks in from the garage, pulling off his blue parka.  Margaret enters from

the living room.  (Paul still has the pillow taped to his front, which Margaret

happily pokes with a finger but never mentions.)

Margaret smiles, relieved.  The phone RINGS.  Paul picks up.

Mrs. Wherry talks on the phone in her kitchen.  The head of a large antelope is

mounted on the wall behind her.

Paul shakes off his boots.

A "Moose Xing" sign is briefly illuminated by Paul's car's headlights as it heads

up a snow packed mountain road.  The distant lights of the city are swallowed

by the thick forests of fir trees that line the road.

Paul, nervous, sings along to "Escape" on the radio.

Paul pulls off.  Kills his headlights.  Pops the trunk.

The corpse, now in Raymond's clothing and the blue parka, lies face up on the

Aloha Airlines promotional surfboard being lurched forward by Paul, who wears

a pair of snowshoes.  On the body's chest lies a second pair of snowshoes.

Somewhere, a WOLF HOWLS.

Paul at the top of a 25 foot drop.  He rolls the corpse, now wearing the other set

of snowshoes, over the side.  It BOUNCES down, landing in the snow with a

soft WHUMPH!

Paul sits in a seeming stupor at the kitchen table.  A DING from the microwave

snaps him out of his catatonic state.  He walks to the appliance, takes out his

now re-heated coffee, checks his watch and heads out.

Paul, wearing snowshoes and carrying the surfboard, peeks over the edge.

PAUL'S POV: down at the corpse, exactly as it was last night.

His words echo in the cold wilderness.

Jodie the dog is in a complete frenzy, jumping up and down at the feet of Paul

who stands over a SIZZLING frying pan full of bacon.  He checks the bacon's

consistency with a fork.  Still pretty raw.  He takes the bacon and lays it on a

plate.

Beside the pan on the counter sit a baseball cap and a stapler.  Paul carefully

takes each strip of bacon and staples it to the peak of the ball cap.  He holds it

up.  The bacon hangs down like fringe.

Margaret appears in the doorway.

Margaret lifts up Jodie, who's desperately trying to get at the hat.

A large sign outside advertises "Fresh Moose Meat". Paul runs out with a

shopping bag, jumps in his car and drives off.

Paul, carrying the shopping bag, he painfully picks his way down the rock face

toward the corpse.

THE BACON HAT -- as Paul pulls it snug on the corpse's head.  He pulls the

bloody steaks from the shopping bag and starts to smear them on the corpse's

parka.  Drops of blood hit the snow at the body's feet and disappear.

Paul drapes the steaks on the body, tucking one under an arm, the other

hanging from a pocket. He pauses for moment, then pulls out a container of

lard and, fighting his own revulsion, smears it across the dead man's face.

Paul pats the body on the shoulder, then looks up at the ridge and the long

journey ahead.

A WOLF appears in the moonlight.  Followed by another, and another.  They

approach the corpse...

Snowmobiles SCREAM to the site as people tramp through the thick snow,

covering all of Paul's hard work.  An ambulance and State Conservation

vehicles pack the area where Paul first pulled off.  Yellow police tape is strung

between fir trees marking a path toward the ridge.

The corpse is covered with a tarp.  The area is littered with blood, animal tracks

and bits of blue parka.  POLICE OFFICERS and tough looking LOCAL

SNOWMOBILERS mill about the corpse, taking turns lifting the tarp that covers

the body.  A few yards away, DETECTIVE BOYLE (60s) talks to a seemingly

distraught Paul.

Paul holds up a sea shell, obviously from the display at his office.  Tears well

up in his eyes.

Boyle nods sympathetically

Paul starts to make his way to the body.  Boyle stops him.

Paul nods.  They make their way over to the tarp.  Boyle pulls it back.

Paul leans in-- the man's face is hamburger.  Paul nods.

Boyle pulls the cover back over the body. Boyle hands Barnell a clear baggie

with the dead man's wallet inside.

Marcie, a female police officer, walks a distraught Paul away.  As they go,

another FEMALE COP approaches.

She holds up a clear evidence bag with the remnants of a strip of bacon on the

inside.

The second level of a large indoor driving range/mini golf course.  The sound of

clubs SMACKING golf balls echo as an intense Ted "waggles" before his shot.

On his back-swing, Tiffany throws her arms around him from behind.

He turns, LAUGHING.  They kiss as she playfully starts to grope him.

Tiffany gives him a peck and flits back to a nearby chair.  He hits one, skying it

into a low hanging light.

Tiffany looks over at one of the tacky tropically-theme'd mini-golf holes.

He looks around.  Embarrassed, he lowers his voice.

As other GOLFERS look over, Tiffany and Ted share a warm smile, the moment

only broken by the ringing of a CELL PHONE.  She SIGHS, unzips Ted's gym

bag and answers his phone.

Suddenly concerned, she hands the phone to Ted.

Tiffany stands, knowing it's no use arguing, she pulls on her coat.  Ted tries to

give her a hug.  She falls into his embrace, but doesn't hug him back.

CORPSE'S POV:  Black.  The drawer is pulled open.  We are...

Ted, Cam and Detective Boyle stand at the end near the feet.  A white sheet

covers most of the deceased.

Boyle moves toward the head and pulls back the covering.  Ted recoils.  Cam

leans in for a closer look.

Ted walks down to the head of the victim, pulls out a camcorder and starts to

tape the body.

As Ted gets his last shot, Boyle covers the body back up and slides the drawer

shut with a loud CLANG.  Black.

TV NEWS CAMERA POV: Of Paul, standing on his stoop, as he's interviewed by

a well made-up female TV REPORTER (20s) dressed for the cold.

The camera man flicks on his light as Paul squints.

Paul reaches back, and, as discretely as possible, grabs the door handle to

keep Margaret from opening it.

Margaret starts to HAMMER rhythmically on the door.

And with that, Paul opens his front door and ducks inside, quickly shutting it

behind him.

Branch, very unhappy, flips through some papers then looks up at Ted and

Cam.

Cam, seeing his partner is about to get himself into a heap of trouble, hustles

him toward the door.

Ted and Cam walk through the cubicles.

Ted grabs his coat.

Ted is out the door.

Ted sits across the desk from Paul.  As per usual, the place is a tomb.

Gary and Jimbo's car parked in the lot.  Gary is just returning to the vehicle with

a brown paper bag.  Jimbo has the look of man who hasn't slept in days.

Gary and Jimbo are eating fish and chips.  The name on the bag is "Ye' Olde

Fish Shoppe."

There is indeed a row of snowblowers lined up outside.  Jimbo takes another

bite of his fish.

Gary LAUGHS.  Jimbo is in no mood.

Gary LAUGHS again, then shoves Jimbo's shoulder.

Gary, embarrassed, takes another bite of his fish.  Jimbo turns up the radio.  A

local call-in show comes on.

JIM'S POV: Through the windshield, looking at the sign for "Barnell Great

Escapes Travel."  Jimbo and Gary look at each other. Maybe...

Ted at his cubicle on his phone.

Cam walks by, leans his head over the top of the cubicle.

Ted pulls Cam down into his cubicle, talks in a harsh whisper.

Paul sits beside his desk, flipping through travel brochures. Margaret enters,

teetering in the doorway.  Paul looks up.

She moves to him, runs her hand through his hair.

Margaret starts to CRY, holding the letter up to her face the SOBS building to a

full blown breakdown.

Paul takes the letter, unfolds it and reads...

Paul is about to say something, but returns to the letter.

Margaret looks at him, crestfallen.

He takes her to a small sofa, cradles her in his arms.

TIGHT ON : TV SCREEN

Where Edward G. Robinson (as the character Keyes in "Double Indemnity")

grills a man about a fake insurance claim.

At the sound of DOORBELL, the whole scene freezes.  We are --

Tiffany at her desk, working on the computer.  Ted has paused the DVD, puts

down the Barnell file and opens the door on a snow covered PIZZA GUY, soggy

pizza box in hand.

Ted looks at his watch.

The delivery guy leaves.

Ted walks back into the living room.  Tiffany comes over, grabs a slice.

Tiffany storms off as Ted flops onto the couch, swipes the snow from the top of

the pizza box and hits play on the DVD.

Tiffany turns from the bedroom door, almost in tears.

She SLAMS the door.  Ted doesn't move, lost in his own world.

Ted and Mrs. Wherry sit on plastic covered furniture.  The mounted heads of

several dozen dead animals, foxes, wolves, elk, surround them.  Ted takes

notes.

She mimics pulling back an imaginary bow with her bony hand.

Ted at his cubicle, thinking hard as he chews on some jerky as he works the

phone.  Snow whips by outside the window.

Ted sees Cam reflected in his dark computer screen.  Annoyed, he puts his

hand over the receiver.

The phone RINGS.  Ted picks up.

Cam shrugs, walks off.  Ted waits 'til he's gone...

Ted is scribbling down something on a pad of paper.

Tombstones, barely visible through the blowing snow, dot the top of a small hill

on the outskirts of town.  A small group of mourners try to keep warm.  Paul and

Margaret, Avis, two other FRIENDS and the MINISTER huddle against the cold.

The Minister is temporarily lost from view.

The snow clears.  Paul, a pillar of strength, discreetly checks his watch then

sneaks a concerned look at Margaret who busily grins at everyone in sight.

Ted's car pulls into the parking area.

Gary and Jimbo sit in their vehicle, watching as Ted gets out of his car and is

swallowed in a white out.  He reappears a moment later farther up the hill.

A wind GUST rocks the casket just as it's lowered into the frozen earth.  The

funeral breaks up quickly as Paul and his wife shake hands with the minister.

Paul looks nervously at Margaret, who is about to reply.  As her mouth

engages, a gust of wind obliterates most of her words, except for...

The Minister smiles, he must have misunderstood.

Paul turns to see Ted approaching.  A blast of snow obscures his view.  When

Ted reappears, he's just a few steps away.

As they shake hands, and Margaret opens her mouth to speak...

Margaret smiles and totters off.

Ted looks down the hill at a small group of TV news vans, the REPORTERS

just now venturing out into the cold.

He pulls out some shots of his brother.  They whip around in the wind and

blowing snow.

Ted thinks, grudgingly impressed with Paul's ploy.

Paul stuffs the photos back in his pocket and walks down the hill.  Ted watches

him go, is about to leave when a gust of wind forces him to avert his eyes.

Looking down he sees a photo of Raymond Barnell, on the beach in swim

trunks.  Must have fallen.  Ted pockets it and moves on.

They look on as Paul is interviewed by the reporters.

Margaret washes down some pills with her morning coffee as she looks at a

fawn in the backyard, nibbling on a bush.

Just then, a THUMPING sound from the garage causes the fawn to bolt.

Margaret turns, suspicious.  She picks up the portable phone as she moves

toward the door.

Gary sticks his head inside the now unchained fridge, grabs a can of soda

from the door rack and closes the door.  A moment later, he reopens the door...

There, hanging off the frosty inside, is a chunk of the dead man's hair and

scalp.  Gary pulls it off, not sure what it means, but sure it means something.

Unseen behind him, Margaret steps into the garage.  She quickly assesses

the situation.

Gary spins, shocked to see Margaret.

Margaret, eyes wide with fear, unleashes a hailstorm of soda cans,

knickknacks, gardening implements and anything else she can lay her hands

on.

He tries to close in on her, but the torrent of stuff (a rake, a Whipper-Snipper,

an old pair of skates...) keeps him pinned down.  Finally, he manages to grab his

gun from his pocket.  But even as he raises it...

A Bissel Handvac catches him flush in the face.

He drops to his knees, grabbing his nose, which is now gushing blood.

Margaret reaches for her portable phone and starts punching numbers.

Gary stands, pissed off, gun aimed at Margaret's head.

Gary ducks as the phone whizzes over his head and smashes against the

garage wall.  He stares at her.  Game over.

A standard corrugated metal storage facility.  Snow falls in from a large hole

that's been cut in the roof.  Cam and Ted, clipboard in hand, stand by the

owner, MR. SPELLMAN (50s).

Ted stares up at the sky through the ceiling.

Cam shrugs-- "sure."  Ted hands him his clipboard and walks out, the door

closes behind him with a loud BANG.

Margaret sits taped to a Lazy-Boy recliner.  Gary, who's still bleeding from the

nose, sits across from her.

Gary looks confused.  The doorbell CHIMES, playing "Tiny Bubbles."  (We stay

in the living room as Gary answers it.)

They both enter the room.  Jimbo looks at Gary, is about to smack him when...

Gary and Jimbo have no idea how to react.  Margaret senses their discomfort,

starts to relax.

Jimbo looks confused.  Gary ushers him into the other room.

Gary and Jimbo sit at the table, talking.  Jimbo's not happy.

Off Jimbo, considering this.

Paul pulls up, hits the garage door opener and drives in.

Paul walks in from the garage, pulls off his jacket.

Paul stops short as he sees Margaret, Gary and Jimbo sitting around the table.

Margaret's mouth is taped shut.

Paul is about to lunge at the men when Gary slides his gun into view.  He

stops.

Paul, shocked, tries to hold it together.

He tosses the frozen lock of hair onto the table.

Paul realizes he's screwed, gestures to the living room.

Gary sits on the sofa as Paul paces.

Paul face lets Gary know he's dead on.

Gary pauses for dramatic effect.

Gary walks in on Jimbo and Margaret, still gagged.

Gary nods, well pleased with himself.

Tiffany comes through the door carrying a sack of groceries.

She sees the living room wall -- it's covered with charts, diagrams and

theories.  Ted on the floor, remote control in hand, replaying the shots of the

body over and over...

Ted rewinds the tape, hits play, rewinds it again as -- Tiffany watches, quietly at

first, then with growing frustration.  Finally, she walks over and grabs the

remote control.

No response.  Tiffany plops on the sofa and starts leafing through Ted's files.

Tiffany scans the file, then looks up at the screen.

He looks.  She tosses him the file.

Margaret, still taped to a chair, sits at the kitchen table.  By the stove, Gary is

cooking, an apron tied like a bath towel around his waist.

Gary goes back to his cooking.  Then...

Margaret just glares.

Gary, suddenly tense, puts down his spoon and picks up his gun.

Gary awkwardly chambers a round, starts gesturing with the gun, trying to look

tough.

Gary, confused and embarrassed, doesn't know what to do.

Paul gets out of his car carrying a K-Mart bag.  He looks like he's been

CRYING.  Mrs. Wherry waves from her deck.

Paul waves as he enters the mobile home, closing the door behind him.  A

light goes on.  It starts to snow.

Paul walks in, survey's the interior of the mobile home.

PAUL'S POV:  A 7 year old time capsule of a party that was never cleaned up;

beer bottles, ashtrays and general garbage.

Paul picks up a small box from the floor, looks at the label.  Edible Panties.  He

puts them on top of a stack of porno mags, neatens the pile, then heads out.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

HIGH ANGLE ON: Paul lying in bed, wide awake, but in the same position

we've seen him in when he sleeps with Margaret.  An electric heater glows

beside him.

TIGHT ON: Car tires as they pull to a stop on the main road.  A pair of heavy

men's boots get out, start to make their way toward the mobile home.

There's a KNOCK on the door.  Paul heads to the door.

As he opens the door a crack, a gloved hand shoves it open.  The force of the

blow sends Paul staggering backward, landing in a heap against the wall

where a picture of his family tumbles over and shatters on his head.

RAYMOND BARNELL (40s), a bear of man, enters, picks up Paul and throws

him through the serving kitchen serving hatch.  Raymond leans through the

hole.

He walks around, takes a copy of "USA Today" and throws it at Paul.

Paul beats a hasty retreat, stumbling through the mobile home with Raymond

right on his heels.

With that, Raymond kicks his brother hard in the ribs.  Paul doubles over,

gasping for breath.

Raymond is about to kick him once more, but Paul puts up a hand, begging

him to stop.  Raymond, relents, then bends over and helps his brother to a

sitting position.

Paul can only sit there and WHEEZE.  Raymond sits beside him on the floor,

pulls out a cigarette and lights it.

Paul considers whether or not Raymond would even remember.

Gary and Margaret sit in silence, Gary taking Margaret's pulse.  Jimbo walks in,

grocery bag in hand.

Gary jumps up and storms into the bathroom just off the kitchen.

Paul, looking like a man who recently took a beating, shovels the light snow

cover that blankets the drive.  He looks as Ted's car pulls up.  As Ted walks

toward him...

Paul thinks about this for a long time.  Then, finally...

Paul stabs his shovel into a snow bank, then walks to Ted.

Paul tries to guide Ted away, but slips and falls on the snow.  Ted, rolling his

eyes, reaches down to help him up.

Ted, with his hands still on Paul, turns to see -- Mrs. Wherry, from her porch, a

compound bow aimed at his forehead.

Ted backs to his car, gets in and drives off.  Paul brushes the snow from his

jacket, reaches up, touches his bleeding forehead (the fall having reopened the

wound).

Paul waves her off, then stares at the blood on his fingertips.  An idea slowly

takes hold.

Raymond pours whiskey into a 7-11 specialty cup as Paul  pulls off his coat.

Paul, agitated, pulls the blinds shut.

Raymond walks over to Paul.  Paul tenses, expecting to be hit.  Raymond

moves right by to refill his drink.

Raymond, an enigma, looks at Paul, then grins -- just kidding.  Paul relaxes.

Raymond tenses -- not really.  Paul's not sure how to read his brother as they

shoot looks at one another -- sibling rivalry ad absurdum.

The sky moves from dark grey to light grey, then stops.  A thermometer outside

on an office tower shows a brisk minus 20.  Workers bundle themselves

against the cold, hurry to work past the drifts piled alongside the road.

Ted walks in, throwing his coat over the wall of his cubicle and is about to sit

down when he notices Paul in his boss' office.  Ted moves closer.

Ted opens the door to his boss' office.  Paul doesn't notice.

Branch, obviously worried, stands.

Paul turns to look at Ted.  He has a large band-aid on his forehead, scratches

and bruises on his face.  It takes a second for the dime to drop.

Paul gets up and moves to the other side of the office.

Ted digs into his briefcase.  He takes out a video tape, the police file on

Raymond and the photo of Raymond Paul dropped in the snow.

Paul and Branch listen intently as Ted paces, the TV/VCR plays shots of the

dead body in the background.

Ted points to the photo;  Raymond, in the summer, wearing shorts with a

blotchy purple spot clearly visible on his leg.

Ted grins.  His moment.  Finally.  Seconds feel like minutes.

Paul looks at Branch.  It's an excuse Ted hadn't thought of before.

Paul stands and grabs the photo from off the desk.

Paul, feigning fear, shrinks back into the corner.

Paul goes white.  He hadn't thought about this.

Paul nods, stressed and strung out, he hugs the wall as he walks out.  After a

moment...

Ted has left the office, SLAMMING the door behind him.

The door CLANGS shut behind Paul as he dials his cell phone.

Paul puts a hand to his chest.  Suddenly dizzy, he drops to his knees and starts

to RETCH.  Tears well up in his eyes.  After a few moments, the storm passes.

Still on his knees, the person on the line comes back.

He sits there, on hold again, waiting...

Ted walks to his car.  As he opens the door -- WHAM!  A fist to his face drops

Ted.  Raymond in a ski mask, picks him up, opens the car door and lays Ted's

head on the door jamb.

Raymond leans onto the door, Ted SCREAMING as his head is squashed in

the vice.

Ted tries to say "yes."  Raymond releases his grip on the door, leans down and

grabs Ted's wallet and walks off.

Paul walks in on A LOUD PARTY.  Raymond, drunk out of his head, has his

arms around two marginal looking HOOKERS.

Not wanting to use his brother's real name.

Paul pulls the sliding door closed behind Raymond.

Raymond pulls out the credit card Paul got for him.

Paul turns, trying to compose himself, when he notices  a handgun sitting out

on the counter.

Paul pokes at the gun, sending the barrel spinning around to face him.

Raymond grabs it and stuffs it into his pants.

Paul's cell phone RINGS.

Paul picks up the phone as the party revs back up.

Jimbo is on the wall mounted phone.

Margaret, now gagged, sits where we last saw her.  She tries to talk through

the gag.

Gary's staring at his watch, calling out seconds.

Paul pulls the kitchen door closed with his free hand.

He hands the phone to Margaret.  Gary leaps up and stops him.

Jimbo pushes past him, pulls down Margaret's gag and holds the phone to

her.

Jimbo, annoyed, puts the gag back in Margaret's mouth.

Gary lunges for the phone cradle like it's the finish line in the 100 meter dash,

slamming the phone down.  A beat.

Paul goes to the cupboard and pulls out a box of potato chips.  As he turns, he

sees one of the HOOKERS (30s) standing in the doorway.  She gives Paul a

come hither look.

A bruised Ted enters, once again the only person in the shop.  He keeps his

parka on.  Avis stands to greet him.

Paul comes around the corner.  He extends his hand, shocked to see the

bruises on Ted's face but knowing exactly where they came from.

Ted sits at Paul desk, reaches into his brief case and pulls out an envelope

and several forms.

Ted slides the papers across to Paul, then gets up and moves around over

Paul's shoulder.

Paul, at a loss, starts to read the paperwork. He pulls open his desk drawer to

grab a pen.  Ted looks down, sees the Sea Shell in the drawer.

Paul puts the shell down on the desk.

Ted can't help but look confused by this simple, yet sincere declaration.

Before he can finish his question, a DELIVERY DRIVER entering the office with

a large box.

There's no answer.  She's in the back.

Paul gets up to deal with the delivery.  Ted, sullen, picks up the shell and turns

it over in his hands.  Avis enter from the back.  She smiles at Ted, then sees

the shell.

She takes the shell and reattaches it to the display for Aloha Air.  Ted,

confused, walks over as Avis snaps the shell back into place.

Paul walks back, shocked to see the shell now back on the display.  Ted just

stares at him.

Avis walks back to her desk.  Ted and Paul hold their look.  Finally, Paul walks

back to his desk and the paperwork.

Ted nods.  Paul signs.  Ted takes the envelope with the check, hands it to Paul

but doesn't let go.  Paul tries to pull it free.  He looks at Ted who looks right

through him.  Just then, the lights go out.  They're all in the dark.

Paul looks at Ted, embarrassed.  Ted finally lets go of the check.

Ted shakes his head, gets up and walks out.

Paul, seen through the window, sits alone in the dark.  His face lit only by a

small flashlight, he is completely still.

Tiffany on her headset with a customer.  Ted on the sofa, lost in thought and

whatever's on the TV.

An overwrought Paul is on the phone with Tiffany, sitting in the dark.  He's got

his home phone bill in front of him.

Ted can't help but SNORT at the mention of this familiar phrase as he looks at

Tiffany.  Tiffany glares back at him.

Tiffany hangs up and walks out.  Ted tries to catch her eye and let her know he

was just kidding.  He can't.  She goes.

Paul behind the wheel, a strange determined look on his face.  He appears be

steeling himself for something.

Paul enters, SLAMMING the door behind him as Raymond looks up from his

porno magazine.

And with that, Paul disappears into the back bedroom.

Paul sits, waiting.  After what seems like forever, Raymond walks in.

Raymond, a momentary flash of anger, sits on the bed beside his brother.

Paul does his best not to flinch.

As Ray stands to go, Paul nods, his heart ripped apart for any number of

reasons.

Paul sits in the manager's office, signing forms.  A large BANK GUARD stands

nearby.  The reason? One million dollars in hundred dollar bills neatly stacked

on the desk.

Paul, with his sack of one million dollars at his feet, is calmly trying on new

winter coats with a CLERK.  He feels each one, checking the amount of

padding.  He finally settles on a red full-length down parka.

The lights are back on as Paul, wearing his oversized red parka comes

through the front door carrying his sack of cash.  Avis looks up.

Paul enters the back room, closes the door.  Avis walks over.

Paul opens the door.  Avis is surprised to see billowing clouds of down floating

in the air behind him.

Paul shuts the door.  Avis gets to work.

ARNITH and BILL, two city workers, sit sipping coffee at a cafeteria table.  The

room is white, very clean and fairly new.  The men wear large orange overalls,

their white construction safety helmets sit on the table beside them.

Raymond and Paul, wearing his big red parka, enter.

ARNITH sips his coffee, points to his name patch but doesn't look up.

Paul hands Arnith a folded form.  Arnith puts his hand out, forcing Paul to move

the form to him.  As Arnith looks at it.

Bill stifles a LAUGH.  Raymond is about to tear out Arnith's spine.  Paul holds

his brother back.

Paul thinks for a moment, digs into his pocket pulls out five crisp, new hundred

dollar bills and SLAMS them on the table.

A large back hoe TURNS OVER.  The muffler BELCHES a cloud of black

smoke into the air.  Arnith is at the controls, expertly maneuvering the shovel

end towards the unmarked grave.

Black.  The trunk lid opens as Bill and Arnith dump a well-wrapped body

unceremoniously into the trunk.  Arnith and Bill look at each other.  Bill closes

the lid.  Black.

Ted sits at the bar beside Cam.  Ted, close to being drunk, plays with a book of

matches as a STRIPPER struts to Tennessee Ernie Ford's version of "16

Tons."

Ted gets up, a little shaky on his feet.

Ted gets up and walks to the door.

Ted exits, a BLAST of Arctic wind and snow hits him in the face.  He closes his

eyes, letting the cold run over him.

Margaret sits at the dinner table, as Gary puts down an overly large serving

plate of tuna casserole.  Jimbo walks in, takes a seat and a scoop full of food.

They all dig in.  Gary looks expectantly.  Just the sound of chewing.  Finally, he

can't wait.

A long, protracted silence.  Then...

Gary CHUCKLES as he gets up for some ketchup.  Margaret stares at Jimbo,

who gives her a "I'll-say-what-I-need-to-have-peace-in-this-house."  Margaret

smiles, then discretely slides him the salt.  Jimbo quickly douses his food.

Ted pulls up in front of Paul's home.  He stares at something that looks like a

tree on the front lawn.  He looks closer -- it's a "For Sale" sign.

Ted staggers through the snow to the sign and drunkenly pushes it down into

the snow.

LAUGHING, he takes some matches from his pocket and tries to light the "For

Sale" sign on fire.  It's no use.  He quits.  He's cold now.  He gets up and

staggers back to his car.

Raymond, half in the bag, sits on the sofa.

Paul walks in with two glasses.  He hands Raymond the larger.

Raymond LAUGHS, takes the drink.

A beautiful winter's night, the soft snowy silence broken only by Raymond's

drunken shot of...

A startled rabbit scurries across the snow.

Raymond is passed out on the sofa.  Paul sits, gun in hand, the barrel pointed

at Raymond's forehead.  His finger grazes the trigger...  but it's suddenly all too

real.  Paul lowers the gun, takes a deep breath and tries again.  Not wanting to

be sprayed by Raymond's gray matter, he half turns his head...  Another idea

comes to him.  Paul picks up a plastic picnic plate to use as a shield from the

blow back.

He gets ready to fire again, then makes the mistake of looking at Raymond.

Maybe it's the light... maybe it's the small puddle of drool on the cushion, but he

looks almost angelic.  Paul stares at his brother.

In the kitchen, Paul fills a glass with water, empties the pistol's bullets into

The cup and hides it on the top shelf.

Paul puts the gun back.  Not sure of his next move, he spots the beat up clock

radio lying next to his brother.

Establishing.

Margaret, still tied up, lays on top of the bed covers.

Gary walks past, looks in, checks his watch, then heads to the bathroom.

Margaret listens as Gary turns on the jacuzzi tub jets.  As he starts singing,

Margaret sits up and scooches over to the phone on the end table.  Her hands

tied loosely to her chest, she manages to dial by placing the phone receiver flat

on the bed.

Margaret looks over to see Jimbo, wearing Paul's pajamas, walking past while

shaving with a portable razor.  As the line rings.

As they continue to squabble, the phone line connects.

Margaret, using her nose, hangs up.

Paul, quiet as a mouse and dressed in his money-lined parka, picks up his

cell and his car keys, drops them quietly into his pocket.  Just as he finishes...

Not to worry.  Raymond has already rolled over.

Margaret has just dialed another number.  It RINGS on the other end... And

RINGS... And connects.

Margaret disconnects the call, then dials again.

A woozy Ted is trying to keep Tiffany's phone from RINGING.

Finally, he puts on the headset and hits a computer key.  It connects.

He hits a few keys on the computer keyboard.  The screen pops to life.  The line

connects.

He pulls off a yellow Post It note stuck to the computer.  It reads:  "Coffee made.

Don't touch my computer.  Back in 10."

Unseen on the computer screen beside him, the name "Margaret Barnell"

pops up, along with all her pertinent information like pet's name, husband,

delusions...

Ted, distracted, turns as he hears the doorknob turning.

Finally he notices the computer screen.  Holy shit.

But before she can answer, Tiffany walks in carrying a laundry basket, pulls the

headset off Ted's head and holds it up to her ear.

Ted grabs for the headset, Tiffany resists.

Margaret sits in the same position on the bed by the phone.  Gary, in the

shower, belts out some SHOW TUNE.

Tiffany shoves Ted, who loses his balance and stumbles backward.  She puts

on the headset.

Ted is at her side, trying to listen in by pressing his ear to the outside of the

headset.

Ted's throat seizes up again.  He stumbles to the kitchen, gulping water from

the faucet. Tiffany watches with some amusement.

His voice locks up again.  More water.

Ted's not doing much better.

Margaret hears the shower stop running.

She hangs up, places the gag back in her mouth and hustles back into place.

Ted, pulls on his boots and his jacket.  In his hand, an address scribbled down

on a piece of note paper.  Tiffany watches, not happy.

The phone RINGS.  Tiffany lets it.

Tiffany gives him that look every man who's ever crossed the line for the last

time is all too familiar with.

Ted stares.  Words fail him.  Finally, his only recourse is to hurry out the door

which shuts with a BANG.  Tiffany lets the phone continue to RING as she

stares at the door.  Sadly, she hits the computer key that picks it up.

Ted opens the door, steps back inside.

He's reaching, but Tiffany looks cautiously hopeful.

Tiffany smiles, genuinely touched.

Paul drives, smiling for the first time in a long time.  He listens to the

beautifully wrenching Iz-Kamakawiwo'Ole's version of "Somewhere Over the Rainbow"

on the radio.  (The music continues over the next two scenes.)

Ted and Tiffany walk out to their car.  They sneak looks at each other, not

entirely sure what emotional sign-post they just passed.

Gary and Jimbo, with Margaret, hands bound, walk into the garage.  Jodie (the

dog) runs out after them.  Margaret looks at Jimbo, who takes the dog and

gently puts him back inside.

Ted and Tiffany drive in silence.  Then...

Ted smiles, and launches in...

Gary leans into the backseat and holds a magazine in front of Margaret's face.

The residence seen from a distance.

As the camera rushes the mobile home, from inside comes the sounds of a

very angry man.  Then, just as we're at the door, it SLAMS OPEN.  Raymond

stands in the doorway, a mountain of anger in a hastily pulled on parka.

He's holding the clock radio by the cord.  He checks his wristwatch, then

smashes the clock radio against the trailer.

Stalking toward his car, he checks the pistol in his side pocket, then, almost as

an afterthought, opens the clip.  No bullets.  He smiles.

A not-well-frequented tourist spot, featuring an expansive, far-as-the-eye-can

see carpet of white.  The road from the turnoff is about 200 yards long, leading

to a plowed out parking area.  The road is the only way in or out.  Paul's car

takes the corner and heads toward the parking area.

Margaret in the back, Jimbo and Gary in the front.

Margaret LAUGHS through  her gag in the backseat.  Gary and Jimbo pretend

not to hear her.  They drive on in silence.

Gary and Jimbo's car pulls in, sliding to a stop beside Paul.

Tiffany and Ted drive.  Ted has just finished.  Tiffany has been paying rapt

attention.

Ted takes the turnoff to the parking area.

A young, bored female CLERK (18) is behind the counter as the door CHIMES

go off.  She looks up to see Raymond walking in, gun in hand.  Raymond lays it

on the counter.

Ted's car pulls up at the far end of the lot, about 200 yards from where Paul,

Gary and Jimbo are parked.  Paul's car is in between Ted's car and Jimbo's.

Paul gets out of his car, as do Jimbo and Gary.  Paul looks for Margaret in the

back of Jimbo's car, but she remains lying down on the backseat.

Ted looks at Paul's car, too far away to see much.   He's about to get out when

Tiffany stops him.

Tiffany gives him a quick kiss.

Ted's about to jump out of the car, but has to pull back his door as another

vehicle slides in beside them, the driver locking his brakes and sliding into the

snow embankment.

Ted, a confused look on his face, looks over as Raymond gets out of his

vehicle.

Ted, too excited, fumbles with his seat belt as he tries to jump out of the car.

Black.  The lid opens.  Jimbo, Gary and Paul look in at the frozen body.  Jimbo

recoils at the mangled mess before him.  Gary reaches down and touches the

well-chewed body.

Good point.  Paul hands him the ransom money.

Ted rushes up beside Raymond.

Raymond shoots him a look... Clearly this was taken as a threat.  Ted can't

help but step back.

Raymond sizes up Ted, then looks off to Paul's car.

Raymond walks on.  Ted, realizing he has no choice, runs and jumps in front of

Raymond, blocking his way.

Raymond steps around Ted.  Ted stays with him.

Before he can finish, Raymond hits him with an elbow to the temple.  Ted

drops to his knees, but even as Raymond tries to walk off, Ted manages to

grab his ankle.

Tiffany is busy fiddling with the radio, missing the fight just outside her window

as she tunes in the Beach Boys "Wouldn't It Be Nice."

At Jimbo's car, Gary is folding the corpse into the trunk as Jimbo pulls Margaret

upright from the backseat and tugs down her gag.  She smiles at him as, with

great care, he helps her out of the car and presents her to her husband.

She touches the bruise under his eye.

That's when Paul sees what Jimbo and Gary are watching.

Raymond kicks Ted in the head, turns, spots Paul and breaks into a run.

Paul seems frozen, but just for a moment.

Paul discretely takes off his red parka and drapes it over Margaret's shoulders.

Margaret nods, kisses her husband quickly on the cheek, then starts to walk

off.

Paul, Gary and Jimbo watch, transfixed at the down-parka'd shit-storm that is

headed their way.

Gary and Jimbo look over at Paul, somewhat confused. Raymond's ten yards

out, and they can now see he's taken out his gun.  He's aiming it at Paul.

Paul looks over his shoulder at Margaret, who's having some trouble making it

up a snow covered hill.

Gary's hand slips into his pocket, grabbing hold of his gun.  Raymond,

oblivious, moves right past.

Tiffany finally looks over at Ted, who's just getting to his feet.  She bursts out

of the car...

Raymond reaches Paul, takes the gun and points it at the top of his head.

Paul's eyes shut tight, expecting the worst.

But shooting your brother is tougher than it looks. Paul opens his eyes.

Raymond tries to pull the trigger again, but can't. He moves the barrel six

inches to the right and shoots Margaret in the back.  She drops face first into

the snow.

Paul's world ends.

Ears RINGING, he rushes toward his wife.

Jimbo can't believe it as Gary holds him back.

Raymond, a look of relief on his face, turns to Jimbo.

But even before Raymond can raise his weapon, Gary pulls his gun and gets it

pointed (shakily) at Raymond.

Raymond drops his gun to his side.  Gary smiles, too happy he won the face

off.

Gary, trying to be cool, flips the gun to his other hand.  As he does-- BANG!  The

bullet rips into the snow about six feet from Raymond's feet.

Raymond glares at Gary.  So does Jimbo.

Jimbo lunges for cover as Raymond FIRES back.  Gary, truly terrified, closes

his eyes as he squeezes off shots on the run -- BANGBANGBANGBANG.

One bullet bounces off Paul's car.  One hits Raymond.  With a quizzical look on

his face, he drops to his knees.  A large crimson stain forms on his jacket.

Everything goes quiet, except for the sounds coming from...

Paul, almost crazed with grief, cradles his wife's body.

Paul gently turns her over.  Margaret, alive, unharmed but winded, tries to catch

her breath.

Paul feels around the bullet hole and pulls out a stack of money, now

embedded with the slug from the Raymond's gun.  He starts to weep tears of

relief.

Gary is behind the other car with Jimbo.

Jimbo gently takes Gary's gun.

As Jimbo puts an arm around Gary and helps him to the car, he sees Paul,

arm around Margaret, coming their way.  Everyone stops.  A look passes, then

both couples move off.

As Jimbo and Gary drive away, Paul brings Margaret to his vehicle.  Spotting

Raymond, he walks over, kicks the gun away, then leans down.  Raymond's not

dead, but he's close.

Paul has to turn away.

Paul turns back, not angry, not frightened, just a little sad.  Raymond, taken

aback for a moment, tries for one last verbal shot, but all he can manage is...

And Raymond dies.

Paul turns back to his car when he spots a delirious, damaged Ted stumbling

toward him with Tiffany desperate to drag him the other way.

Ted, barely able to stay on his feet (concussion) gets in front of Paul, and just

stands there and waits.  Paul can't help but feel bad for the guy.

The punch hits Paul on the top of his head.  He stumbles back, but Ted is on

him before he can move out of range.  It's a strange looking fight between the

younger (physically spent) and older (emotionally drained).

Margaret and Tiffany jump in, trying to pull the two men apart.

The car is still in the parking area.  Paul and a bloody, beaten Ted sit up front

with Margaret and Tiffany in the back.  No one speaks, until...

Ted glares at Tiffany, but her look instantly softens him.  Ted looks at Margaret,

who looks expectantly at Paul.  Ted shrugs.

Paul starts to talk, and Ted starts to listen...

Arnith (the grave digger) walks to the side of a casket.  He hits the switch and it

starts to drop.  Arnith watches impassively, taking brief note of two people up

the hill before returning to his work.

It's Gary and Jimbo, dressed in black.  They watch silently as Raymond is laid

to rest.

The sun beats down on a white sand tropical paradise.  The wind is calm, the

water azure blue.  Perfection, except for the -- SNOW.  Big pure white flakes,

cutting across this idyllic --

Poster that hangs in a BOOK STORE window.  We are...

Tiffany stares at her reflection in the window, her face transported to an island

paradise.  Ted walks out.

The two walk down the street.  Snow keeps falling.  Tiffany shuts her eyes,

looks straight up as the gossamer snowflakes land and melt on her face.

She's never looked more beautiful.

Ted stares at her.

Tiffany grabs his hand and pulls him away, disappearing into the whiteness.

Paul, sitting alone, reads a postcard from Margaret.

Paul looks up to see Margaret.  Dressed in a coat, she is standing in the

middle of the living room, now empty save for a few boxes and a very ugly floor

lamp.

Paul flips Margaret's letter over, and we now see it is the faded Hawaiian Hilton

postcard from the box in his den.

Paul puts the postcard in a shoe box full of keepsakes, and tucks it under his

arm.  Margaret picks up Jodie, whose in his carrying case, and walks over.

A CAR HORN sounds from outside.  It's their cab.  As they walk to the door...

Paul takes her hand and gives it a squeeze.  They head out.

Snowing now, as various PEOPLE walk toward the aircraft and the portable

stairs rolled to the door.

Paul and Margaret among the crowd, exchange nervous but hopeful smiles,

then they are lost along with the other pilgrims in the swirling white.

Dave and his WIFE (50s) walk out of their house toward their  car.  They get in,

Dave behind the wheel.

As they pull down the driveway.

Dave keeps backing up.  As he takes the corner and bumps over the curb, the

momentum sends the half-eaten body (that Gary and Jimbo stuffed into the

backseat) to an upright position.

They drive on, oblivious.

