THIRD DRAFT

October 6, 1980

Converted to PDF by SCREENTALK

www.screentalk.org

FADE IN:

EXT. NIGHT SKY

Flames in the night sky. Distant SIRENS. PULLING BACK,

we see that the burning building is mostly hidden by dense,

black shapes that define the oceanside skyline of Miranda

Beach, Florida. We're watching from across town. The

sound of a bathroom SHOWER comes to a dripping stop at

about the same time we see the naked back and head of NED

RACINE. We continue to PULL BACK INTO --

RACINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Racine, dressed in undershorts, is standing on the small

porch off his apartment on the upper floor of an old house.

Racine lights a cigarette and continues to stare off at

the fire. We've passed him now, into the bedroom of the

apartment, and the shape of a young woman, ANGELA, flashes

by, drying her body with a towel.

Angela reappears briefly, gathering her clothes.   She

sits on an unseen bed to get dressed.

On the bed, Angela snaps on her bra.

She is, in fact, slipping on the blouse of her Avis Rent-

a-Car uniform. There's a smile on her lips as she buttons

up, watching Racine.

Now, for the first time, Racine turns to look at   her.

She is sitting on the edge of the bed, half into   her

uniform. Racine smiles broadly at the  sight and   moves

into the room. He pushes her back and  they both   disappear

from sight, fabric rustling.

We are left looking out over the porch at the night. And

we go back there, across the rooftops, to the flames.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

An Assistant County Prosecutor named PETER LOWENSTEIN has

been conferring at the bench with JUDGE COSTANZA and now

they both wait as Racine comes into view to join them.

The Judge is irritated.

Racine is surprised and pleased.

Racine starts to turn.

Lowenstein smiles.

Racine goes back to his client, a Businessman of enormous

confidence and extravagantly untrustworthy appearance.

INT. STELLA'S COFFEE SHOP - FIRST STREET - DAY

Racine and Lowenstein are seated at the counter. Racine

drinks beer while Lowenstein drinks a tall iced tea very

rapidly and signals for another. This place is across

the street from the courthouse/police station and there

are plenty of lawyers and cops around, several of whom

acknowledge Lowenstein and Racine with pats or nods.

A single unit air conditioner is blowing away above the

door, but it can't compete with the blasts of hot air

that come in with each new patron. All of these people,

like the pedestrians outside the window, have stripped

down to essentials In the infernal heat. The lawyers all

carry their Jackets, but even so their shirtsleeves are

sweaty. The town is sizzling.

STELLA, the owner of the coffee shop, writes and places

separate checks in front of the two men.

He stands fishing for change, but Racine takes his check

and places it with his own. Lowenstein nods and moves for

the door.

Just before he reaches the door he does a strange thing --

he takes several graceful dance steps in the Astaire

manner.

Lowenstein spins out the door, where he is blasted by the

heavy air. His body droops as he disappears.

Racine winces, gets up, and puts money on the counter.

He lights a cigarette.

Stella agrees with a shrug as Racine heads for the door.

EXT. FIRST STREET AND MAIN STREET - DAY

Racine makes his way up First to the corner of Main and

crosses diagonally to his building on Main. He is well-

known here, greeted through glass by many of the shop

owners. The heat dominates much of the pantomimed

conversation. Racine goes in a doorway and heads up the

stairs to his office.

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine's secretary, BEVERLY, is behind the desk in the

modest reception room. She's a pretty girl barely past

twenty. She pushes some phone message slips toward Racine

and nods toward the sofa. A middle-aged woman client,

MRS. SINGER, sits there clutching a walking stick. Her

face suddenly is contorted in pain. Racine glances

meaningfully at Beverly then turns his full solicitous

charm on Mrs. Singer.

He helps her up and leads her slowly to his office.

As Mrs. Singer disappears into the office, Racine flashes

a grin at Beverly.

EXT. THE BEACHFRONT - NIGHT

The hottest January in fifty years has brought the crowds

to the beach in search of relief. But they've been

disappointed. Even the breeze off the ocean seems blown

from a hair dryer. Still, the nights are a trifle better

and the Beachfront, the penny arcades, the ice cream stands

and bars are busy, even now in the middle of the week.

Racine comes out of a bar and lights a cigarette, idly

watching the passing parade. There is a free band concert

in progress at the band shell. Racine wanders in that

direction.

EXT. THE BAND SHELL - NIGHT

The Miranda Beach High School Orchestra is playing to a

full, sweating house; the audience is a sea of orange

programs fluttering away as fans. People come and go

frequently.

The atmosphere is as innocent and informal as the music

the band is playing now.

Racine leans against the back rail, smoking, his eyes

playing over the scene with no expectations.

Then, down near the center aisle, a WOMAN rises. As the

band plays on, this extraordinary, beautiful woman, in a

simple white dress, moves down the aisle. She moves

wonderfully. The dress clings to  her body in the heat.

Racine watches, mesmerized, as she walks directly toward

him. She passes within a few inches of him, her eyes

lowered. Racine's body sways a moment as she goes by, as

though buffeted by some force. But they do not touch.

She goes out onto the Beachfront walkway.

EXT. THE BEACHFRONT WALKWAY - NIGHT

The Woman, MATTY, has walked to the rail. She stands

there now lighting a cigarette. She presents her face

to the ocean, hoping for a breeze.    We move in on her,

with Racine.

Racine lights a new cigarette and smiles at her. She

looks at him and, for an instant, her eyes race over his

body, then she looks back at the ocean.

She looks at him, and there is something startling about

the directness of her gaze. When she speaks, she is cool

without being hostile.

She turns back toward the ocean.

She looks at him curiously. She begins walking slowly

along the rail. He walks too.

Racine shakes his head "no."

Racine smiles.

She stops again at the rail as a small breeze blows in

from the ocean. She turns her back to it and, with her

cigarette dangling from her lips, she uses both hands to

lift her hair up off her nape. She closes her eyes as

the air hits her. Racine watches very closely.

Matty lets her hair fall and again begins moving down

walkway. She drops her cigarette and steps on it.

They have come upon a Vendor selling snow cones.

The Vendor scoops and pours as Racine lays some change on

the cart.

Racine hands her a snow cone. They walk over to the rail.

Racine watches her eat the snow cone with enormous

interest.

She looks out at the ocean.

For the first time, Matty laughs. A moment later, she

spills the snow cone over the front of her dress. It

makes a bright red stain against the white. The thin

material clings to the line of her breast.

Racine starts toward the restroom nearby.

This causes a momentary hitch in Racine's retreat, but

then he hurries off.

INT. MEN'S ROOM

Racine comes in, snaps some paper towels from the rack

and turns on the water. The room is full of smoke. A

fifteen-year-old Boy is leaning against the wall. After

looking Racine over a second, he brings the smoking joint

he's been holding behind his back into view and takes a

toke. He nods at Racine, who nods back and stands up

with his wet towels. As he walks out, Racine takes a

deep breath.

EXT. THE BEACHFRONT - NIGHT

Racine comes out of the structure. And stops. Matty is

gone. Racine  looks around without much hope. Finally,

he puts a wet paper towel to the back of his neck. We

begin to HEAR a strange, measured thumping, and then --

EXT. THE BOARDWALK (82ND STREET) - DAWN

Racine is running. The THUMPING is the sound of Racine's

battered running shoes hitting the weathered wooden planks

of the Boardwalk.

Racine wears old gym shorts and a torn tee-shirt with

"F.S.U." fading from the front. The raised wooden walk

works its crooked way through lush, tropical vegetation,

first coming close to the wide, white beach, then jutting

back inland, swallowed by greenery, then shooting out

again toward the sea. Racine hits this last stretch at

top speed and launches himself flying out onto the gleaming

sand.

EXT. BEACH - DAWN

Racine is running on the sand now, on a raised, hardened

section that bisects the beach. His shoes make a weird

whooshing SOUND each time they break the compacted surface

and sink an inch below. The sun is just rising from the

ocean to his right, yet the day is already broiling.

Racine's shirt is drenched. The WHOOSHING is hypnotic,

steady; his expression indicates that it is just this

sound which keeps him going.

EXT. THE BAND SHELL/THE BEACH - DAY

Further on, Racine runs by the Band Shell where he'd seen

Matty.

EXT. THE PIER - DAY

The THUMPING returns, as Racine runs the long, straight

pier directly out to sea, toward the rising sun. A

lifeguard boat with an outboard motor is on the left of

the pier. Racine watches it as he runs until it disappears

beneath him, then reappears on his right and turns out to

sea, so that it is running beside him. Racine speeds up,

really kicking, racing the boat to the end of the pier.

The Lifeguard on board isn't even aware of Racine, but he

beats the runner nonetheless, then veers off to continue

his business.

Racine pulls up, breathing hard. He walks it off a bit,

watching the boat, then turns and starts walking back

along the pier. He reaches into the waistband of his

shorts and takes out a pack of cigarettes.

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine is behind the desk. Occupying the two seats in

front are a married couple rapidly approaching divorce.

They are arguing now, each trying to convince Racine of

their view. Racine nods occasionally, looking from one

to the other. But he is also looking between them, through

the open door out to the reception room, where his

secretary Beverly is kneeling before the lowest drawer of

a filing cabinet. Her back is turned and her jeans are

tight across the bottom. There's nothing especially

provocative about her pose. She's just there. Working

away.

Racine walks across his office and closes the door.   He

goes back to his seat. The couple continues.

EXT. THE BAND SHELL - NIGHT

Another concert going on, a trio   of musicians. Racine

moves down the sidewalk away from   the audience. He looks

around as he lights a cigarette.    She is nowhere in sight.

Racine opens the door to his car,   a nicked-up red '64

Stingray.

EXT. PINEHAVEN - DAY

Racine drives past a neat sign --

"You are entering

PINEHAVEN

Please drive carefully"

There's money here. Many of the homes are not visible

from the street -- only their gates announce their

presence. Those that can be seen are sprawling and lavish.

The Waterway appears to the left. A large white yacht

cruises slowly by.

INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Racine sits in bed smoking a cigarette. At the mirror, a

Nurse in a fresh white uniform steps into her white shoes

and begins attaching her cap with bobby pins.

INT. COCKTAIL LOUNGE - PINEHAVEN - NIGHT

Dark. Almost classy. The place is half full. Matty is

drinking at the end of the bar, her cigarettes next to

her glass. The bar chairs near her are empty.

Racine comes in, looks around, walks over and sits in the

seat next to her. She looks up, surprised.

Racine looks at her, almost as though he can't place her.

But he doesn't push that effect hard. He lights a

cigarette.

The Bartender has come up.

She thinks, then nods her agreement.    The Bartender moves

away.

The Bartender brings their drinks and leaves.

She takes his hand and shakes it. Racine reacts strangely

to her touch and doesn't let go right away. She gently

frees it, then refers to his look as she picks up her

drink --

Racine gives her a look.

Racine looks out over his drink.    Several of the Men in

the place are looking at them.

Natty leans back in her seat and glances down at herself.

She's magnificent.

Racine has been looking at her body too. With her line,

he just laughs. Matty watches him, then leans over her

drink. Her tone is different.

Matty laughs, studies him.

Ratty drains her glass and stubs out her cigarette.

She looks at him a long time.

Racine again accepts.

She gives him a look and then slaps him hard!     Everyone

turns toward them.

She stands up, takes her purse and her cigarettes, and

walks to the other end of the bar, where she sits down.

Racine watches her with amazed eyes. He stands up and

throws some money on the bar.

He stalks out of the bar.

INT. RACINE'S CAR - NIGHT

CLOSE on his face as he drives. His look is intense,

expectant. He's feeling lucky as he watches up ahead.

RACINE'S POV out the windshield. Matty's shiny Mercedes

450 SEL is gliding down the road ahead of him. She puts

on the blinker, slows and turns into a gated drive. The

drive is canopied by heavy trees, the vegetation crowding

the road with a primeval lushness. The headlights create

sinuous welcoming shadows. It is as though Racine were

entering some separate, parallel, jungle world. Eventually

the house comes into view.

Matty's car swings around in the parking area and stops.

Racine pulls the Stingray up next to it, facing the other

way. He watches Matty slide her long legs out of the

car. She glances at Racine and for an instant there is a

hint of self-consciousness under the weight of his gaze.

We begin to HEAR the soft tinkling of chimes.

EXT. THE WALKER HOUSE - FRONT TERRACE - NIGHT

Racine follows closely behind Matty as they go up the

stairs. At the door, Matty turns suddenly and looks at

Racine.

Racine agrees. Matty looks him over a moment, then turns

to unlock the door.

INT. ENTRY HALL/SECOND FLOOR HALL - NIGHT

Matty comes in and puts her purse on a hall table as Racine

moves forward to look around. Despite the night gloom,

it's clear the place is expensively decorated in a manner

entirely consistent with the exterior of the house. Fine

antiques, carefully chosen fabrics, and a meticulous

selection of accessories have given the place the look of

an affluent home of Thirties America. And yet the overall

effect is almost contemporary, so burnished are the woods,

so fresh all the elements. It works.

Matty gives him a searching look, then      leads   him up the

stairs, flipping on only an occasional      light   in their

path. In the second floor hall, Matty       moves   to the front

of the house. Racine glances into the       gloom   that hides

Matty's bedroom.

Matty pauses at the doors to the porch, unlocking them,

and looks at Racine as though she barely understands the

question.

EXT. SECOND FLOOR PORCH - NIGHT

The TINKLING is distinct out here. Matty and Racine come

out onto the porch. There are about thirty wind chimes

of various, lovely designs -- crystal, metal, wood hanging

at intervals from the rim of the wide porch awning,

completely encircling Matty and Racine.

Halfway down the long lawn is a white gazebo. Beyond it,

the waterway is shimmering in the moonlight. At the edge

of the water is a small boat house.

Racine walks along under the chimes, looking up at them.

A smile plays across her face. He looks back at Matty,

He looks out at the boat house.

Racine moves back and stands very close to her. He looks

at her in the moonlight, but she concentrates on the

distant water.

Racine puts his hand up under her hair, on her nape. She

closes her eyes at his touch, then moves away, as though

by an act, of will, to the door, half opening it.

Racine steps toward her, but she ducks inside and moves

through the intermittent light of the hall and down the

steps. Racine follows her.

INT. ENTRY HALL

Matty stops at the entry hall, leaning against the wall.

He puts an arm on each side of her, caging her against

the wall. She looks up at him.

He kisses her light on the forehead.   Again she reacts,

but fights it.

He kisses her lightly on the nose.

Matty slips under his arms and quickly steps out the front

door. She stands just outside watching him. Racine shakes

his head, goes out there.

EXT. FRONT TERRACE - NIGHT

Racine stops next to Matty.    She doesn't move away.

Racine looks at her a long time.

She kisses him on the lips and steps quickly inside the

front door. She closes it, looks through the window at

him, then moves away.

EXT. PARKING AREA - NIGHT

Racine stands looking at   the door a  few moments. Then he

walks to his car. Again    he stops.   He looks back at the

house. The wind picks up    a bit and  the TINKLING of the

wind chimes gets louder.    And then  louder.

Racine goes back up onto the porch fast.    He goes to the

front door and looks through the window.

EXT. FRONT TERRACE - NIGHT

RACINE'S POV. Matty is standing at the bottom of the

stairs in the hall. She is looking directly at the front

door. Frozen in the spot.

Racine tries the door. It's locked. He shakes it hard,

but it's solid. He looks to his left. There are windows

down the wall there. He moves to them. They go into the

living room but their shutters are closed. He looks

through a broken slat at Matty, who watches him from the

same spot, through the living room door. Racine tries

them. They won't budge. Racine moves to his right past

the front door, to the windows off the dining room. He

pushes at them as his eyes lock with Matty, who watches

from the hall. The windows won't move, Racine spins and

picks up the nearest object, a wooden rocking chair. He

lifts it, turns and smashes the big window. Glass showers

into the dining room.

Matty watches.    She hasn't moved.

Racine pushes the broken window out of his way.    He comes

in, like a violent gust of wind.

INT. HALL

Racine crosses the dark living room  fast. As he reaches

Matty, she lifts her arms to match  his embrace. They

come together hard and tight. They   kiss. And kiss again.

Her hands travel over his body, as  though she's wanted

them there for a long time.

They turn once slowly along the wall, into the dimness of

the central hall. Then he rotates her body away from

him, holding her close.

Then she is just nodding. Racine puts his face deep into

her hair, closing his eyes as the smell of her washes

over him.

Matty turns in his arms and kisses him hard.    Racine pulls

her close to him and they sink to the floor.

CLOSE ON Matty's face, a look that might be anguish. She

bites her lip in expectation. Racine moves over her.

She pulls him tightly to her, clinging like a drowning

woman.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Racine and Matty lie under a sheet on her big bed.    Her

eyes are closed. There are more wind chimes on the    second

floor of the verandah, which is off this room, and   Racine

is listening to their TINKLING. Racine looks over    in

that direction.

RACINE'S POV. The moonlit, sheer white curtains on the

window roil to a light breeze. Racine's gaze travels

over the luxurious bedroom; here too, it is in the Thirties

style. Their clothes are haphazardly thrown across a

divan and on the floor nearby. A delicate fern sways in

the wind. Finally, he is looking at a lovely writing

desk against the far wall. Some tissue-thin stationery

flaps in the breeze, kept in place by the weight of a

pen. Then, as he looks, the paper stops flapping and the

chimes gradually STOP TINKLING. Racine looks toward the

window. It is still open, but the air had died.

The curtains hang still.

Racine's face.   The world has stopped.

FROM ABOVE THEM, we see them framed by the bed.

EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Near the front gate of  the Walker place, a heavyset, middle-

aged woman, BETTY, THE  WALKER'S HOUSEKEEPER, has been

waiting on a bus stop  bench. Now she lifts her tired

body to board a public  bus.

Down the Street, just around a corner, Racine watches her

go. He puts the Stingray in gear and drives to the

Walkers.

EXT. WALKERS' BOAT HOUSE - SUNSET

Lights are going on across the waterway, sending shimmers

toward the boat house.

INT. WALKERS' BOAT HOUSE - SUNSET

We're looking out a dusty window at the waterway. We

HEAR Racine and Matty disentangle and roll apart o.s.,

Racine grunting his exhaustion. After a moment, Racine

rises up into frame, looking happy. He looks down to

where he was and rests against the wall.

Racine turns and stares out at the ocean. Matty rises up

behind and hugs him from the back. She kisses his shoulder

blades and presses her cheek against his spine.

She pulls him down.

On the lounge cushions that are spread across the floor,

Matty rolls on top of Racine. Racine reacts with

exaggerated pain to the roughness of the cushions.

Laughing, they roll again and we're on Racine's face as

we:

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Racine's face; he is still rolling, but he is alone. He

has just rolled off the bed. He lies there like a dead

man.

INT. MASTER BATHROOM - NIGHT

Racine is at the sink, having just washed his tired face.

He opens the medicine cabinet and looks at all the

toiletries of Matty's husband. He selects a cologne, is

impressed by its expensive look, and slaps a little on

his jaw.  He doesn't like the smell. He closes the cabinet

and moves back into the bedroom.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Matty, wrapped in a thin white terrycloth robe, is

stripping the bed of its sheets. Racine watches from

across the room.

Matty straightens with an armload of sheets.

He promise with a gesture.

INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Racine comes in, beat. He throws his jacket across a

chair. Out the windows to the porch, the sun is rising

out of the Atlantic. Racine goes there and closes the

curtains. In the gloom he walks to his bed and sits on

the edge, kicking off his shoes. He picks up his alarm

clock and begins setting it.

EXT. WALKER HOUSE - LAWN/GAZEBO - NIGHT

Racine has just parked his car and is walking back across

the lawn. Matty is standing in the gazebo, her back

turned, looking out at the Waterway.

She is dressed in white and from here she looks very much

as she did when they first met. There are wind chimes

hanging from the gazebo.

The lady in question turns around, surprised. It is not

Matty at all. It is MARY ANN. She's attractive, but a

little cheap-looking. She looks him over.

Racine is nonplussed.   He doesn't know what to do.

Racine comes up on the porch.

Mary Ann gives him a salacious smile.

Unbeknownst to either of them, Matty has been watching

from the lawn. Now she moves up into the gazebo. In her

right hand she has an envelope, well-filled and sealed.

EXT. INTERSECTION

A block away from the station, the patrol car races toward

an intersection. Suddenly, a WOMAN steps into the street,

pushing a baby buggy. Pat slams on the brakes, and the

car skids sideways toward the intersection, where it rocks

onto two wheels and stops just a few yards short of the

buggy. Sam sticks his head out the window.

The woman dives to the ground as the BABY sits up in the

buggy -- he is a midget with a cigar in his mouth and a

tommy gun in his hands. Pat jerks Sam to the floor just

as the midget opens fire.

The midget riddles the car with bullets. Headlights

explode, windows are smashed, the grill is torn to shreds,

and steam mushrooms into the air.

All four tires are flattened, a bumper is sheared off,

and still the blasting goes on.

There's almost nothing left of the patrol car as a dark

sedan wheels into the intersection to pick up the woman

and the midget. The sedan speeds away, and Pat and Sam

climb out of the rubble, unhurt but very shaken.

INT. TRACY'S CAR

Siren off, Tracy cuts the motor and silently glides into

Cullen Park, stopping just under a low-hanging weeping

willow.

EXT. BOATHOUSE

Approaching the boathouse carefully, Tracy takes out his

pistol. The front door is ajar. Tracy pushes it, and it

creaks open. He enters cautiously.

INT. BOATHOUSE

The boathouse is dark, lit only by moonlight and park

lights that shine through the windows. Tensely, Tracy

listens for sounds, then moves very carefully past stacked

up rowboats and canoes.

Traced against a window at the far end of the boathouse,

Tracy sees the silhouette of a man. Gripping his pistol,

he moves silently toward that silhouette, closing in on

it while keeping alert for movement.

Matty hands the envelope to Mary Ann, who puts it in her

purse.

There is a pregnant pause as Mary Ann looks him over,

fighting some private amusement.

She pecks Matty on the cheek, then steps close to Racine

to shake his hand.

She's smiling as she leaves the gazebo and walks across

the lawn. Matty  takes Racine's arm as they watch Mary

Ann get into her little sports car, which has been pulled

up close to the house. She pulls out waving.

Matty turns to him and puts her arms around his neck.

EXT. LAWN/LAGOONS - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty's Mercedes has been pulled out onto lawn next to

the lagoons which border the grass.  Racine and Matty can

be seen, intermittently rising into view in the back seat,

grappling, then disappearing again.  Matty is giggling.

Matty rises up, wraps her arms around his neck and kisses

him deeply. She pulls him out of sight.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

An ashtray, full to overflowing, on the rug next to Matty's

bed. And, above it, Matty's hand, clutching the sheets

on the side of the bed.

INT. MASTER BATHROOM

Racine and Matty lie together in the full bathtub. On

the floor beside the tub is the container that catches

the ice from a refrigerator's automatic icemaker.

Racine gropes for the ice container and dumps the remaining

ice cubs Into the tub with them. Matty snatches one out

of the water and holds it to her forehead.

Racine knows.

Racine watches some water run through his fingers. He

cradles her head in an embrace that has nothing to do

with sex. She looks sad.

EXT. GROUNDS - WALKER'S PLACE -- NIGHT

The Middle of the Night. A light FOG has rolled in.

Racine is walking slowly through the shadows of the heavy

foliage. He stops beside a rubber tree.

RACINE'S POV. The Walker House. In front sits a huge

white Cadillac. All the lights in the house are out.

The wind chimes TINKLE softly.

Racine lights a cigarette.

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine stands at the window staring down at the busy Main

Street. He is far away.

INT. ENTRY HALL - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Racine has just entered.   Matty is calling from somewhere

out of sight.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Racine goes into the living room and sits down on the

couch.

Matty comes in carrying a tray with two drinks on it.

And she is dressed in the uniform of an airline stewardess,

complete all the way to her little cap. She cannot keep

a straight face, despite her efforts. Racine begins to

laugh.

She hands him a drink, but he takes it and the tray and

puts them on the floor. He pulls her down across his

lap. They are both laughing hard. He kisses her.

He pushes her back across the sofa.

EXT. DRIVING RANGE - NIGHT

A dozen Golfers are practicing, spotted along the  row of

hitting pads under floodlights. Most are drenched   with

sweat from their exertion in the muggy air. Their   randomly

timed swings send streaking white bullets into the

darkness. But what is hypnotic, what so captures   a hot

night in sound, is the irregular CRACKING of clubs  meeting

balls: CRACK, CRACK-CRACK-CRACK, CRACK-CRACK!

In the darkness of the overlooking parking lot, behind a

high fence, sits the Stingray, with Racine in the driver's

seat and Matty close beside him. They sit in silence.

Matty listens, but her eyes are on Racine.

Racine watches the Golfers, listening intently.    Then he

sees that Matty is crying. He comforts her.

Matty looks straight ahead and her tone is somber.

He knows it's true. It's the same for him. He wipes her

cheeks with his hand. CRACK, CRACK-CRACK, CRACK.

EXT./INT. WALKER HOUSE (SERIES OF SHOTS) - NIGHT

WATERWAY/BOAT HOUSE -- The water laps against the pier.

Gently. The quiet sound almost overpowered by the

insistent buzz of the night insects. The CAMERA MOVES

toward the house.

LAGOON/GAZEBO -- A giant palmetto bug leaps from a lily

pad into the water, creating a tiny ripple. The CAMERA

MOVES toward the house.

STAIRWELL/HALLWAY -- Quiet and dark. The CAMERA MOVES

along the shiny white posts of the stairs. Upward.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Racine and Matty are in bed. Matty is sound asleep, her

back close to Racine. But he is not asleep. He is propped

up, looking down at her. We've never seen his face like

this before. Never this open, never so much in repose.

She stirs, and then is still again. He touches her hair

lightly. She sleeps.

INT. STELLA'S COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Same courthouse/cop crowd as before. Racine finishes a

sandwich at a table as Lowenstein sits down with two tall

glasses of iced coffee, both of which he drinks down.

Racine dismisses this with a gesture.

At this moment, DETECTIVE OSCAR GRACE, a   big, powerful

black man comes in. He's a plainclothes    cop in shirt

sleeves, his jacket in his hand. As he    passes Racine on

his way to the third seat at the table,   he squeezes

Racine's shoulders with his huge hands,   by way of greeting.

Stella comes over.

Grace laughs. Racine shakes his head in mock exasperation.

Stella arrives with Grace's order. Lowenstein looks her

over as a possible for Racine, but shakes his head. Stella

lingers. Lowenstein spots someone, speaks to Racine in a

loud, excited whisper.

Across the restaurant, GLENDA, a Meter Maid, is talking

with some other women.

She leaves.   The three men exchange amused looks.

He takes a big bite of pie.

Glenda the Meter Maid passes their table on her way out.

She has eyes only for Racine.

She goes out. Lowenstein and Grace look at Racine, then

at each other. Grace smiles hugely.

EXT. LIGHTHOUSE/SAND DUNES - NIGHT

The big beacon turns in the distance, throwing an

intermittent bridge of light across the water toward us.

The undulating dunes stretch off as far as we can see.

Racine's Stingray is parked on the dirt access road. Below

it, Racine and Matty sit close in the warm sand.

She looks at him a long time. There is real joy in her

face. And tears in her eyes. We're very close to those

eyes as she wipes the tears away. Racine puts an arm around

her. She looks out at the lighthouse.

Matty is silent for a long beat.

She searches his face, almost frightened.

They kiss.

She jumps up and runs back to the car. Racine walks back

there as Matty takes a wrapped package out of the car.

She hands it to Racine, who leans against the car to unwrap

it.

Racine opens the box and smiles broadly. It is a hat a

fedora in the classic style.

Racine puts on the fedora. It fits. He looks simultaneously

old-fashioned, a visitor from the Forties, and also very

chic, a present-day fashion plate. But most of all, he

looks exactly right. Matty squeals in glee at the sight.

Racine tries to see his reflection in the car's side view

mirror but he has trouble. Matty, very animated in her

delight, steps up and kisses him quickly.

Racine tries for a moment, then gives up with a laugh.

Matty opens the door of the Stingray and sits in the

passenger seat with her legs out. She rolls up the window

in that door as Racine stands before it. The glass capture

the moonlight to make a perfect mirror. As the window

goes up, Racine's reflection appears on the glass, posing

in his hat. At the same time, Matty's face disappears

from view.

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine lies on the couch. He spins the fedora Matty gave

him on his finger, Beverly comes up and leans against the

doorjamb. She's wearing a tee-shirt and tight slacks; she

looks good. She watches him for a moment.

She shrugs.. She turns back to her desk, unconvinced.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Busy weekend crowd. Racine sits drinking alone at the

bar. He signals for another.

EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF WALKER PLACE - NIGHT

Racine drives slowly by, head craning to peer into the

darkness. We begin to HEAR the thumping again --

EXT. THE PIER - DAY

Racine has been running. Walking now,  breathing hard, he

takes his cigarettes from his shorts.  At the end of the

pier he folds his body over the rail  so that it looks as

though he will topple over the edge.  But he does not; he

lights up and looks down there.

RACINE'S POV. The water following against the thick

pilings. Then, TILTING UP, UP, AND OVER, past the ocean's

horizon to the perfect blue sky, which fills the screen.

Racine is looking straight up, blowing his own clouds.

INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Racine lies smoking in bed, bathed in sweat, a beer nearby.

A fan is pointed at him, but it's blowing hot air. He

looks at the telephone.

EXT. PORCH OF RACINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Fog. Thick and heavy. Racine's cigarette glows in it as

he sits in the gray limbo. The phone in the apartment

RINGS.

INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT

Racine comes in from the porch and picks up the phone.

Racine's face relaxes. He looks relieved.

EXT. SECOND FLOOR PORCH - WALKER PLACE - NIGHT

Same thick fog. The wind chimes TINKLE softly. Light

seeps out from Matty's bedroom windows, half-revealing

Racine and Matty lying together on a lounge. Matty is in

her white terrycloth robe, Racine just shorts.

Racine lights another cigarette and gazes off into the

fog, thinking. Matty presses her cheek against his chest

and closes her eyes tight.

Racine looks off into the night for a few beats, then he

lifts her face so he can look into her eyes.

Matty shakes her head "no," lays it in his chest again.

Racine lifts her head and kisses her on the mouth.

Racine takes a last drag on his cigarette and flicks it

out into the fog,

INT. BAR - PAY PHONE AT BACK

Again, Racine is getting no answer.   He gives up, goes

back to his seat at the bar.

EXT. TELEPHONE BOOTH - MAIN STREET - DAY

Late afternoon. Racine, sportcoat slung over his shoulder,

listens to repeated ringing at the other end of his call.

He's surprised there's no answer. People drag by, making

their way home from work in the heat. Finally, Racine

hangs up.

Racine comes out of the phone booth. He has nowhere to

go. He ambles down the street. A few people say hello.

He walks diagonally across the street toward a restaurant

called "Tulio's."

INT. TULIO'S RESTAURANT - DUSK

The best restaurant in Miranda Beach. Racine slips on

his jacket as he comes in the door. He waves to the

Hostess across the dining room, indicating he'll be alone

tonight. She signals a short wait. He steps toward the

bar, bringing him suddenly face to face with Matty.

The panic which shoots across her face, cuts him off in

mid-sentence, a split second before EDMUND WALKER appears

behind her. Matty's face goes calm and she smiles

politely.

She turns to her husband. He is not what Racine expected.

He may, in fact, be mean, as Matty described him, but he

looks neither small nor weak. A handsome man, he is bigger

than Racine and in terrific shape. Dressed in an expensive

summer suit, he radiates vigor and controlled physical

power. He wears sleek, metal-framed glasses.

He offers his hand and Walker encloses it firmly in his.

Walker nods, looking at Racine carefully.    He motions

toward the dining room.

The Hostess has come toward them.

The Hostess nods and leads the way. Walker gestures Matty

ahead, then puts a big hand behind Racine's elbow and

ushers him into the dining room.

LATER

They have finished their salad at a table toward the back.

A Waiter comes and takes away their dishes. Walker has

taken off his glasses and is cleaning the lenses with a

lovely handkerchief. He does this cleaning with enormous

care and inordinate relish. His manner is a mix of gruff

charm and hinted menace. There's something dangerous

about the man and it's perfectly distilled in his smile,

which is quick, frequent and vaguely threatening.

Walker smiles, re-folds his handkerchief carefully and

puts it back in the cheat pocket of his jacket.

Walker picks up a wine bottle and pours more into each of

their glasses, emptying it.

Walker signals to a distant Waiter for another bottle of

wine. He does it with a small flick of his finger.

For a second, Walker's eyes flick over Matty like a whip.

She picks up her purse and stands up with a good-humored

smile. The men rise.

Then maybe we can talk about pantyhose or something

interesting.

She walks away. Walker watches her go with a satisfied,

possessive grin. They sit.

Walker looks at Racine and laughs. As he begins to speak,

he focuses intently on Racine. He seems to be trying to

communicate something other than what he's saying.

Again Walker takes off his glasses. He holds them up to

the light and then rubs them again with his handkerchief.

He puts his glasses back on, stares at Racine.

Racine looks at him in silence for a moment.

The two men stare at each other a few beats.

Walker ROARS with laughter. A huge, powerful burst that

shakes the table. And Racine laughs with him.

EXT. WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty's bedroom window, from a distance.  The light goes

out, Racine is watching from the shadows of the gazebo.

He stares up there. The TINKLING of the  wind chimes rises

and rises. It crests and begins to fade,  replaced by the

WHOOSHING.

EXT. BEACH - DAWN

Racine runs south along the beach. The WHOOSHING slows.

He is looking at something. He takes out his cigarettes

as he slows to a walk. When he is directly across from

what he's staring at, he sits in the sand, He lights up.

RACINE'S POV - "THE BREAKERS," an ancient wooden beach

hotel, of medium size, sits at the edge of the beach. It

is closed down, boarded up, deteriorating horribly in the

ocean air.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

Lunchtime. Racine is headed toward his office, briefcase

in hand. Beverly appears out of the noon crush; she's

going the other way in a hurry.

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine comes into the reception room from the hall. He's

surprised the door is unlocked. He crosses the room and

opens the door to his office.

Matty is sitting in one of the chairs in front of his

desk. She jumps up at the sight of him and moves up to

embrace him.

Matty kisses him on the mouth, then shakes her head "no."

Racine reaches over and locks the door to his office.

Matty grasps his face in her hands and looks into his

face.

Matty's face looks different than we've seen it. There's

a fire burning behind there and the heat it's throwing is

bringing her equal portions of dread and relief. She

stares at him,

Matty's nod is barely perceptible.

Again, the tiny nod. He pulls her head close, so he

doesn't have to look into her eyes anymore.

Matty reacts to this.

EXT. FISHING HARBOR - STREET ACROSS FROM DOCKS - NIGHT

Matty sits at the wheel of her Mercedes at the curb. She

smokes her cigarette nervously. Racine walks over to the

car from the docks and leans down to the window.

Racine gives her a look of resignation and moves around

the car.

INT. TEDDY LAURSEN'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT

TEDDY LAURSEN, rock'n roll arsonist, is keeping the beat

and mouthing the words along with the Bruce Springsteen

tape on his workbench. Teddy is in his mid-twenties,

dressed in a black T-shirt and jeans. His arson workshop

is located in the basement of an old building. All around

him are the tools and supplies of his trade: wire, rope,

cans, vises, alarm clocks, chemical containers, and a

huge assortment of mechanical implements. He keeps all

his small accessories in dozens of cigar boxes, unlabeled.

He knows where everything Is. Teddy is watching Racine,

who is kneeling on the floor before a compact incendiary

device. Teddy winces at the way Racine clips two wires

together. He reaches over to turn down the tape slightly,

then squats down next to Racine to demonstrate the proper

method.

Racine nods then duplicates the clipping. Teddy goes

back to his stool, slapping the beat of the music on his

thigh. Racine pulls out the alarm lever on the clock

attached to the device and stands up. He throws a look

to Teddy and Teddy nods that, yes, the device is now set.

Teddy is offended.

Racine remembers telling Teddy that.

Racine looks him over, shakes his head "no."

Racine looks at him.

INT. ENCLOSED SIDE VERANDAH - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Racine sits smoking, watching Matty fill their tall

highball glasses with ice at the bar.

She hands him his glass and stands next to him, her hand

playing with his hair.

She kneels beside him.

Racine is shaking his head.

Racine puts down his drink and turns to look down at her.

She studies him with frightened eyes, then nods her

agreement and lays her hand in his lap.

EXT. "THE BREAKERS" - NIGHT

Middle of the night. No one in sight. Now comes the only

movement -- a Miranda Beach Police Patrol Car drives slowly

up the street next to the old hotel and turns south on

Ocean Avenue. When it is gone, all is dead again.

EXT. THE BEACH - NIGHT

Racine has   watched the patrol car from the  darkness of

the beach.   Now he sits in the sand again,  his back against

the raised   bank of sand on which he runs.   He lights a

flashlight   and makes a notation in a small  notepad.

INT. "THE BREAKERS" - NIGHT

Racine's footsteps creak through the blackness. Then his

flashlight reveals a corridor in the crumbling basement

of the old hotel. Racine is not the first to have violated

the premises -- scattered about are beer cans, whiskey

bottles, beds made of newspapers, the remains of food.

Rats CHITTER and scamper in the shadows. A lizard scoots

over the pipes.

Racine goes through a doorway and is in what used to be a

supply area at the bottom of a stairway.

Scattered about are empty wooden food crates. The walls

are lined with tall wooden shelves; one of these units is

tipped over across the room, Racine shines his light in

that direction and sees what caused the shelves to fall.

One of the beams which cross the ceiling has rotted loose

and dropped one end to the floor.

Racine has found what he wanted.

EXT. WALKER HOUSE - PARKING AREA - MIGHT

We're CLOSE ON RACINE'S WATCH; it reads 2:30.

Racine, at the wheel of the Stingray is looking at his

watch. Matty is leaning down to the window dressed only

in a robe.

She kisses him deeply.

He looks at his watch again and pulls away.     Matty stands

watching.

EXT. FROM PINEHAVEN TO "THE BREAKERS" - SERIES OF SHOTS -

NIGHT

Racine drives his murder route. The roads are almost

totally deserted. Intermittently he passes signs welcoming

him to the towns as he travels south.

A. The first stretch of his trip, Racine travels on a

deserted back road with overhanging trees. A Teenage

Hotrodder passes him and he is alone again. As he turns

off the road, he checks his watch.

B. He drives through a neighborhood of neat houses. No

life.

C. He turns onto a four line interstate. More traffic

here -- long haul truckers, late night drinkers.

D. He drives across a graceful drawbridge, rimmed by

lights, over a canal.

E. He drives toward the ocean beside a pretty lake in a

park. A patrol car passes the other way. Racine checks

his watch.

F. At "The Breakers." Racine follows the same path as

the police car he'd watched.

INT. COUNTY JAIL - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE VISITING ROOM - DAY

A seedy-looking Thief is brought out of the visiting room

by a Uniformed Deputy, followed by Racine, briefcase in

hand. Racine shakes the Thief's hand. The Deputy leads

the Thief away down the hall. Racine glances at his

departing client, then heads in the other direction.

Before he has gone too far a heavy, metal, barred door at

the other end swallows up the Thief with a piercing CLANG!

Racine jumps. He puts a hand against the wall.

INT. BED - MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Racine and Matty, just their heads on one pillow, inches

apart. They look at each other in silence. Finally --

Matty nods.   She begins to cry.     Racine touches her.

So is Racine.

INT. RACINE'S STINGRAY - INTERSTATE 95 - DAY

Racine looks off to his left.      Miami rises out of the

flat horizon.

EXT. INTERSTATE 95 - DAY

The red Stingray whips off the Interstate toward the

skyscrapers of Miami.

EXT. BUDGET RENT-A-CAR OFFICE - DAY

Racine, on foot now, comes down the sidewalk and enters

the office.

INT. WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Matty unlocks the door side of the house.    She tests it

once from the outside.

EXT. EMPTY LOT - MIAMI - DAY

A Real Estate Agent leans against his car reading a

newspaper at the front of a huge, empty lot beneath a

causeway. There's a big "For Sale" sign up.

Racine pulls up in the Stingray. The Real Estate Agent

throws his paper in his car and goes over to shake hands

with Racine. They turn to look at the lot.

EXT. ENTRANCE - SHERATON HOTEL (MIAMI) - DAY

Racine pulls up in the Stingray. He takes an overnight

bag from the car and goes inside as a Parking Attendant

wheels the Stingray into an underground garage.

EXT. FRONT TERRACE - WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Matty sits on the porch drinking a highball. She stubs

out another cigarette in the overflowing ashtray and looks

at her watch. Her foot swings nervously.

EXT. ROUTE ALA - NEXT TO BEACH - DUSK

Edmund Walker's big white Cadillac zips north.

INT. FRONT DESK - SHERATON HOTEL (MIAMI) - NIGHT

Racine jokes with the female clerk at the desk.    She likes

him; she'll remember him.

INT. SECOND FLOOR WINDOWS - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty watches the lights of Edmund's Cadillac come up the

drive.

EXT. FRONT TERRACE - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty comes to the end of the porch, a big, welcoming

smile on her face.

Edmund is getting out the driver's side.

The passenger door of the Cadillac swings open. Pretty

nine-year-old HEATHER KRAFT pops out with a grin.

Matty's smile fades for an instant, but she manages to

put it back.

INT. DINING ROOM - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty, Edmund and Heather have a late dinner.    Edmund and

Heather joke together, Matty joins in.

INT. CORRIDOR - SHERATON HOTEL (MIAMI) - NIGHT

A "DO NOT DISTURB" sign is still swinging on Racine's

hotel room door as he slips into the stairwell at the end

of the hall.

INT. SIDE DOOR - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty appears, quickly looks and tests the door, then

hurries away.

EXT. SIDE STREET - MIAMI - NIGHT

Racine unlocks a rented, gray Oldsmobile and gets in.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Through an open door, Edmund can be seen kissing Heather

goodnight in the guest room. He gets up, comes to the

door and switches off her light. He starts to close her

door, but she speaks to him. He nods and leaves the door

half open.

INT. RACINE'S RENTED OLDSMOBILE (INSERT CU) - NIGHT

Racine's face, intermittently lit by the road lights, is

set, intense. We MOVE IN on it and --

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Matty's face, her head on a pillow, turned away from her

husband, away from the bedroom door. Her look is just as

intense as Racine's. Her eyes are focused on -

An alarm clock on the nightstand -- 1:15.

There is the SOUND of a car somewhere outside and Matty

reacts to it silently. She listens with her whole being.

The wind chimes TINKLE.

EXT. SIDE DOOR - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Racine's hand takes hold of the doorknob. He tries it. It

won't open.

Racine's face. Puzzled. He gives an irritated glance

upward. Then he moves along the wall.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The alarm clock -- 1:42.

Matty watches. Matty listens. She tries to confirm that

Walker is sleeping without looking there. Matty begins to

move her legs slowly toward the side of the bed, to get

out.

Suddenly, the bed lurches. Matty gasps and whips her head

around to look. Edmund is standing next to his side of

the bed in his undershorts. He puts on his glasses and

looks at her.

Matty watches with panicky eyes as Edmund moves toward

door. When she speaks, her voice is different, husky.

He turns to look at her.   She moves once on the bed,

languidly.

He peers at her in the darkness.

Edmund studies her, then walks over and locks the door.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Edmund's alarm clock - 2:05. Edmund rolls into view, his

breath ragged. Matty's hand is on his chest.

Edmund looks at her and laughs.

Matty, flat on her back, smiles weakly and looks at the

ceiling. Again, the mattress moves. She looks at Edmund.

He has pulled on his shorts and is walking toward the

bathroom.

He disappears into the bathroom. Matty slips out of bed.

She is wearing a silky nightgown. She hurries to the

bedroom door.

She opens the door and steps into the hall.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL - NIGHT

Matty looks across the hall toward the open door to the

guest room; it is dark. She hurries to the stairs, peering

down into the darkness. She starts down the steps.

INT. FIRST FLOOR HALL - NIGHT

MATTY'S POV as she comes down the steps. Each shadow,

doorway, and alcove threatens to erupt with life.

Matty reaches the bottom of the stairs and peers around.

She starts back along the dark hall of the house just as

Edmund comes out of the bedroom upstairs; he is still in

his undershorts. He reaches the top of the stairs as Matty

moves back along the hall. The alcove under the stairs is

in black shadow. Matty is focused on it.

Just as she reaches it, the lights in the hall snap on.

Racine is standing under the stairs, poised to strike the

figure in the hall with a heavy wooden plank about two

feet long. Matty gasps at the sight, but it is covered by --

Racine doesn't breathe. Matty is frozen in the spot,

directly in front of Racine and five feet below Edmund,

who now starts down the steps.

Edmund frowns, goes back up the stairs.

Racine and Matty lock eyes.   Racine slips back through

the alcove door.

EXT. PARKING AREA - WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Matty watches Heather give Edmund a big   goodbye kiss and

run off to talk to Betty, the Walker's   Housekeeper, who

is sweeping the front terrace. Edmund    gets in the

Cadillac. Matty leans down and kisses    him goodbye.

He gives her a once-over, proprietary look and drives

away, honking once to Heather, who waves.

HEATHER'S STAY/RACINE'S WEEK - SERIES OF SHOTS

A. Matty sits on the dock dangling her feet in the water

as Heather plays in an inner tube.

B. Racine stands at his office window, staring down at

the traffic on Main Street. He wipes the sweat from his

brow with his finger.

C. At night, Matty comes upstairs with a highball in her

hand. She pauses and looks across the hall to the half-

open door of the guest room. There is just blackness

there; no way to know if Heather is asleep or watching.

Matty goes out the hall door to the verandah and sits

down with her drink. The wind chimes TINKLE.

D. At night, Racine runs sweating along the Boardwalk,

footsteps THUMPING.

E. Daytime. Matty is in a phone booth in a gas station,

speaking urgently. She hangs up.

F. In his office, Racine hangs up, disgruntled. His

feet up on his desk, he has been toying with the fedora

Matty gave him. Now he sails it across the office at the

hook of a coatstand. It hits and bounces off onto the

floor. Racine gets up, walks over and picks it up. He

walks away from the coatstand, then turns and floats the

hat through the air to land on the hook. From his new

position, he can see out into the reception area. Beverly

is working at her desk. Racine watches her small

movements. Beverly looks up and sees him.

G. Evening. Heather is happily watching television in

the enclosed side verandah in the Walker house. Matty is

in a big chair. She watches Heather, not the television.

She puts a cigarette in her mouth then reaches out to

strike a wooden match against the rough surface of the

porcelain match holder. As it bursts into flame, it

becomes --

H. The flame at the end of Racine's match. He is drinking

alone at a bar and now lights another cigarette.

EXT. FRONT TERRACE - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty comes out. She's wearing a light, simple shift.

She walks over to a small table and begins putting some

dirty dishes and glasses on a small tray. Suddenly, Racine

takes her into his arms from behind. She GASPS in terror;

he turns her to him. He is wearing only cut-off blue

jean shorts and his body is wet, glistening. His hair is

soaking, slicked straight back. He looks different. She

sees who it is and kisses him deeply. They whisper --

The door from the house squeaks open and Heather puts one

foot onto the porch; she looks only half-awake as she

peers into the gloom. Racine has turned at the SOUND and

for one moment he is sideways to her, his head turned in

her direction.

Heather's eyes suddenly discern the scene. Racine turns

away at the same instant that Heather stumbles backwards

through the door and out of sight. Heather's FOOTSTEPS

patter swiftly away.

Matty and Racine look at each other.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL - NIGHT

Matty comes up the stairs and looks toward the guest room.

The door is closed.

INT. TERRACE BREAKFAST AREA - WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Morning. Matty sits with coffee and toast at the table.

The Walker's Housekeeper moves about in the kitchen.

Heather comes in and takes her place opposite Matty. She

seems perfectly normal. But she doesn't look Matty in

the eye.

Matty watches over her coffee as Heather butters a muffin.

EXT. PARKING AREA - WALKER HOUSE - DAY

ROZ KRAFT, Edmund Walker's sister, closes the passenger

door of her station wagon behind Heather. Matty stands

nearby.

Roz gives Heather a look.

Roz walks around the car and gets in.

Roz smiles, waves and pulls away.    Matty watches them go,

worried.

INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The lights are out. There's enough moonlight pouring in

the open windows to see Racine sitting on the bed in his

shorts, his back propped against some pillows at the

headboard. A fan WHIRS on a table. He lights another

cigarette and takes another drink; a bottle of bourbon

sits on his nightstand. From where he sits, he can see

the ocean. There is a KNOCK at the door.

Matty comes in.  She peers into the darkness until she

sees him. She  locks the door and turns to face him. She

is dressed in a pale silk suit and blouse, very carefully

put together.  She looks as good as she ever has; she

seems to create her own light.

Racine just stares at her.

Matty disappears for a moment into the shadows.

Matty emerges from the darkness and sits on the edge of

the bed next to Racine. She looks into his eyes.

Racine has been thinking along the same lines.    He stubs

out his cigarette.

She sits down on the bed.

She leans back against him.

Matty turns toward him.

Racine studies her face.

Matty presses her head against his chest.

Racine laughs; he doesn't know what's funny.

Racine reaches over her, gets another cigarette and lights

it. After he takes a deep drag, she takes it from him

and takes a puff too.

EXT. CITY STREET - MIAMI - DAY

Racine locks up   a rented Ford on a side street and walks

back two cars to   where his Stingray is parked. As he

bends to unlock   the Stingray, he looks around and a passing

car catches his   attention.

RACINE'S POV, PANNING with the car as it drives by him.

There is only one thing extraordinary about this particular

car. The driver, hunched and intent on the road ahead,

is a Clown, in full costume and makeup.

Racine watches as the car disappears.   For a moment, Racine

looks like a dead man.

INT. MASTER BATHROOM - WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Matty is reclining in the soapy water, slowly scrubbing.

She HUMS to herself.

EXT. HILTON HOTEL - MIAMI - DUSK

A Parking Attendant takes Racine's Stingray, as Racine

goes into the lobby.

EXT. FRONT TERRACE - WALKER HOUSE - DUSK

Matty is leaning against one of the posts that flank the

porch stairs. Headlights pass across the front of the

house and Matty's body. She smiles a welcoming smile to

the unseen Edmund.

EXT. TWO-LANE HIGHWAY - NIGHT

A light fog is settling into the dips of the road. Now

Racine's rented Ford appears out of one such depression

and moves into a clear stretch.

INT. RACINE'S RENTED FORD - NIGHT

Racine eyes the fog with concern.

EXT. WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

The FOG is much heavier here. It rolls in past the house

in thick waves. The only light burning is on the front

porch. The wind Chimes TINKLE softly.

EXT. SECOND FLOOR PORCH - NIGHT

The wind chimes TINKLE, nudged by the same breeze that

floats the FOG around them.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The alarm clock -- 1:50.

Again, Matty lies on her side, turned away from Edmund,

eyes wide, watching the clock. Again, the bed moves

suddenly! Matty rolls over to look.

Edmund is sitting up in bed, putting on his glasses.

Edmund motions for her to be silent.

He swings out of bed; he is in his undershorts.

Again he silences her. He walks silently over to his.

closet and disappears inside.

Edmund comes out of the closet checking the safety on a

shiny nickel-plated .38 revolver.

But he is already out the door, silently. For a moment

Matty is frozen, then she slides out of bed.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL - NIGHT

Edmund has stopped at the top of the stairs. He listens

for sounds from below. He starts down the steps in the

dark.

INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT

Edmund comes slowly down the steps, his gun pointing here,

then there in his perfectly steady grip. The thrill of

the hunt is in Edmund's eyes. The downstairs is thick

with ominous shadows. At the bottom of the steps, he

stops and listens again. He moves in two quick steps to

the entry hall and looks into the living room and dining

room. He seems to hear something at the rear of the house.

He turns and moves back along the central hall, very

slowly. The alcove under the stairs is pitch black.

Edmund points his gun at that approaching space and stops.

He listens. The TINKLING of the wind chimes rises weirdly,

making it hard for him to hear.

Edmund's hand reaches out to the wall.   His fingers find

the light switch. He flips it.

For a second, we are blinded by the glare. In the next

Instant, as we see that the space below the stairs is

empty, Matty screams from the top of the stairs --

Edmund thinks she is warning him.   He spins to look.

Suddenly, Racine bursts from the hall closet, the wooden

plank raised above his head. He brings it down fast toward

Edmund's head.

Edmund reacts instinctively, raising his arm, the arm

that holds the gun, to protect himself. The wooden plank

smashes down -- half its force taken by Edmund's forearm,

half by his head. The gun BLASTS once.

One small window in the front door shatters and the bullet

continues into the night.

Edmund's revolver slides across the hall floor into a

corner.

Edmund is on the floor, blood pouring from his scalp.

But he is coming on like a crazed beast. His glasses

askew, but still on his head, he has grasped Racine around

the legs. With a powerful lunge, he pulls Racine's legs

out. Racine crashes to the hall floor, losing the wooden

plank.

Matty, frozen at the stair railing, cries out.

Edmund is pulling Racine toward him with all his might,

crawling up Racine's body as they both slide on the wood

floor. Edmund reaches out one huge hand, and pulls Racine

even closer.

Racine puts his left hand into Edmund's face, his thumb

flat against the lens of Edmund's glasses and pushes his

head back. The glasses fly away and Racine loses his

hold. Edmund comes on.

Racine's right hand gropes -- gropes -- finds the wooden

plank. He swings it up.

The wooden plank describes a perfect arc into our view,

and then out, finding its mark with a HORRIBLE THUD.

Matty, up the stairs, turns away.

Racine falls back on the floor.

EXT. TRUNK OF WALKER'S CADILLAC - NIGHT

The trunk is open like a giant maw. A sheet of plastic

has been spread across the inside. Edmund's body flops

down inside. He has been dressed, his shoes and watch

put on. Racine drops the blooded wooden plank beside the

body, then throws a blanket over the corpse and slams the

trunk. Racine turns to Matty who stands, fully dressed,

shaking in the foggy air.

She nods.

Racine gets in the Cadillac and pulls away.

INT. CADILLAC - ON DESERTED BACKROAD - NIGHT

The first stretch of Racine's route to "The Breakers"

looks different in the dense FOG. Racine has to take it

slowly.

He consults his watch. A branch from one of the

overhanging trees looms up abruptly in the windshield,

like a grasping arm. Racine flinches.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

Racine drives through the silent neighborhood. The  houses

are invisible in the FOG, their presence indicated only

by an occasional glowing light. Suddenly, a police  SIREN

pierces the night, followed by the appearance of a flashing

red light on the street behind the Cadillac.

INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT

Racine's eyes jump to the rear view mirror and the flashing

red light growing in it. Racine pulls over. The police

car slows as it reaches the Cadillac, pulls alongside,

and then speeds on ahead, SIREN squealing. A light goes

on in the house in front of which Racine has stopped. He

pulls away.

EXT. FOUR-LANE INTERSTATE - NIGHT

The Cadillac pulls up to the interstate from the side

street.

As on the other night, there is more traffic here.   But

it is moving slowly in the FOG.

INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT

Racine has to cross two lanes of traffic to go south. He

peers out through the misted windshield. He starts to

pull out and a sports car appears from nowhere, doing

fifty, sitting on his HORN. Racine hits the brakes. As

soon as it has passed, there is a lull. Racine fishtails

across the road just ahead of a truck and moves south.

EXT./INT. CADILLAC - INTERSTATE - NIGHT

The traffic on Racine's side of the interstate has slowed.

There's an accident up ahead. The police car that passed

Racine is on the scene, but the lone Cop is not enough.

Some Passing Motorists have pulled over to help with the

wreck and direct traffic. The FOG is aglow with flashing

red and white lights and burning flares. A Man signals

for Racine to stop. The cars in the opposite lanes are

allowed to pass through. Racine keeps his head down.

A STOCKY TRUCKER comes out of the glowing FOG and walks

up to the Cadillac. He leans down into the driver's

window.

The Stocky Trucker gives him a disgusted look and stands

up.

The Man in the road ahead signals for Racine to pull around

into the opposite lanes and move on.

TRACKING along beside the Cadillac, Racine moves slowly

through the nightmare scene. Figures move by carrying

lights and tools. The Injured CRY OUT in pain. Three

cars are meshed in crumpled steel. A clutch of Onlookers

are outlined against the beams of headlights... Racine

might as well be driving into Hell.

EXT. BRIDGE OVER CANAL - NIGHT

Here is relief. The  Cadillac moves all alone across the

bridge. The lights  penetrate the FOG at orderly intervals,

barely illuminating the bridge. A huge FOG HORN fills

the air from not far way.

EXT. "THE BREAKERS" - DELIVERY DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

The deserted hotel looms ghostly in the FOG. The Cadillac,

lights out, rolls silently to a stop in the half-hidden

delivery driveway.

INT. "THE BREAKERS" - SUPPLY AREA - NIGHT

Racine, carrying only a flashlight, has made his way to

the supply area he visited before. His beam probes dark

corners, responds to random CREAKING. Satisfied that he

is alone, he moves a wooden crate and reaches into the

hole in the wall which it hid. He brings out Teddy's

incendiary device and places it on the floor in the middle

of the room.

EXT. "THE BREAKERS" - DELIVERY DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

Racine grunts under the weight of Edmund's corpse, flung

over his back. He stumbles back toward the hulking hotel.

The trunk of the Cadillac is closed.

INT. "THE BREAKERS" - CORRIDOR - SUPPLY AREA - NIGHT

Racine sits down hard. He is streaming with sweat under

the enormous dead weight. He adjusts the plastic sheet

so that Edmund's bloody skull won't contact the wall.

Racine gathers his strength and half-lifts, half-drags

the body down the corridor, his silhouette that of a

twisted, double-headed monster. His flashlight glows

from ahead at his destination.

IN THE SUPPLY AREA, Racine has dropped Edmund's body over

some tipped shelves. Now he lifts the  heavy ceiling beam

he spotted earlier. He has to change  its angle only two

feet in order to let it drop -- now -- on Edmund's head.

Racine walks over to the incendiary device. He pulls out

the lever and straightens up. As he does he looks down a

connecting hallway. He sees movement. He snatches up

the flashlight and the wooden plank and rushes down that

hallway.

AT THE END OF THE HALLWAY, Racine slides to a halt,

breathing hard. Again he sees the movement. A horrible,

sweaty figure confronts him -- there is a broken mirror

attached to the wall. Racine looks at himself a long

moment and the tension seems to drain away...

Someone speaks in the shadows!

Racine jumps and spins toward the sound,   which is only a

little more than a MOAN. His flashlight    seeks out the

source - a RAGGED BUM is stirring in his   sleep on a bed

of newspapers. He wears an old baseball    cap.

Racine looks at him a long time, trying to decide what to

do. He looks back  in the direction of the supply area.

He looks at the Bum settling again into a deep sleep. He

looks for one final second at himself in the mirror.

EXT. "THE BREAKERS" - BEACH - NIGHT

Racine appears at a run from the fog. He has the Bum

with him, grasped firmly at the neck of the collar and

the seat of his pants. Racine is forcing the Bum to run

along with him. The Bum is mightily confused, not least

by the fact that Racine has jammed the baseball cap all

the way down over his nose -- he can see nothing. Racine

lets go, hurtling him across the sand.

The Bum is sprawled in the sand. The baseball cap has

come off. He watches Racine's dark figure recede in the

fog.

INT. RENTED FORD - SIDE STREET - NIGHT

Matty sits fidgeting in the front seat, trying to peer

through the soupy FOG. She sucks on an unlit cigarette.

Racine appears at the driver's window. Matty gasps.     He

is a horrible sight. He gets in the driver's seat.

Racine grabs her and pulls her down out of sight, bending

his body low over her.

The windows are suddenly illuminated by the beams of

headlights. They grow brighter and a police patrol car,

red light slowly revolving on the top, passes next to the

Ford and moves off quietly in the FOG.

He rises slowly and watches the patrol car disappear.

EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

The Ford stops at front of the drive.

INT. RENTED FORD - NIGHT

Racine and Matty break from a kiss.    He moves her away

from him.

She nods.   They look at each other.   She gets out.

EXT. INTERSTATE 95 - SERIES OF SHOTS - NIGHT

The rented Ford speeds through the foggy night.

INT. RENTED FORD - NIGHT

Racine's face. He knows that for the first time in his

life, he's really done it. There's no turning back.

Racine does something that he's going to be doing for the

rest of his life. He looks in the rear view mirror.

INT. "THE BREAKERS" - SUPPLY AREA - NIGHT

Everything is as Racine left it. Edmund's body lies

beneath the beam. It is barely discernible in the gloom.

The only bright spot in the room is the incendiary device,

its shiny surface catching some errant sliver of light.

And then it explodes with a harsh SHRIEK. And the light

of the magnesium chips is white, blinding. The chips are

out in all directions to the waiting puddles of gasoline.

The light goes from white to yellow as huge flames engulf

the room. The flames ROAR. We watch them for a few

moments and then --

EXT. SECOND FLOOR PORCH - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Matty stands in the FOG, one arm wrapped around a post of

the porch. Above her the wind chimes TINKLE. She

struggles to hear something else. Finally she does hear

it and her face relaxes and she looks at peace. Listening

to soft, distant SIRENS.

FADE IN:

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

The fedora hangs on the coatstand. Racine works at his

desk, reading over a long contract. The sun is cutting

through the Venetian blinds behind him in glaring strips

and, as he leans back in his chair, he finds it impossible

to read his document. He gets up, goes to the window and

adjusts the blinds so that his desk goes dark in the shade.

As it does, the PHONE RINGS. Beverly answers out in the

reception room, her conversation muffled through the

slightly cracked door. She hits a hold button and yells,

as is her informal custom.

Racine picks up his phone.

The Secretary goes off and Racine is left holding. He

waits five long beats and seems about to hang up when a

Voice comes on, very dry and cold.

Hardin seems to expect more of a response.    Racine is

silent.

Racine closes his eyes for a moment. The blood drains

out of his face. He puts a hand out toward his desk.

Hardin clicks off. Racine hangs up slowly. He stares at

the phone a long time. He gets up, his mind racing. He

goes to the window and parts two of the blinds with his

fingers. The sun makes him squint.

INT. RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Racine opens the door from his office.

Beverly wrinkles her brow, spins her Rolodex.

He closes the door to his office.

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine sits at his desk.    The phone BUZZES.   He picks it

up.

INT. SHILLER, HASTINGS LAW OFFICES (WEST PALM BEACH) -

DAY

A Secretary leads Racine DOWN A HALLWAY of the richly

appointed offices and ushers him into a --

LARGE CONFERENCE ROOM, opulent, with a big skylight.

Seated around the room are Matty, Roz Kraft, and much   to

Racine's surprise, his friend Peter Lowenstein, Matty   is

dressed in chic black, MILES HARDIN comes around the   big

desk to shake Racine's hand. Hardin is an impressive    guy

in a $500 suit. He greets Racine with icy eyes and a

cordial look.

Racine comes up to Matty and takes her hand.

They shake and Lowenstein gives him a cheerful grin.

Racine shakes his hand. Hardin motions Racine into a

chair and moves back around the desk.

Hardin looks at Racine a beat, but Racine has nothing to

say.

Racine nods.

Hardin glances at Lowenstein, who watches impassively.

Racine would like to kiss Roz; instead he turns with a

questioning look to Hardin.

He reaches into his coat and brings out a gold cigar case.

No one does. In fact, Racine, Matty and Roz all

immediately produce their own packs of cigarettes. The

effect is comical and everyone in the room laughs at the

group reflex. Roz notices that Lowenstein is not lighting

up and offers him one of hers.

Roz smiles and tilts her head to blow a stream of smoke

toward the ceiling. We TILT UP with it as the white smoke

intrudes the clear air and --

The same space, thick with smoke, and TILT DOWN to the

assembled group, all of whom are focused on Hardin, except

for Lowenstein, whose glance dances about the rapt faces.

Hardin watches Racine, who reacts minutely.

Matty turns a confused look to Roz who returns it

sympathetically. Hardin notes it.

Racine watches him, his mind racing ahead too fast to

bother being insulted. Lowenstein can't help a small,

wincing smile. Now Hardin gets to his payoff and there

is no amusement in his tone.

Racine watches him dully, then concentrates on taking out

a cigarette.

Roz looks at Matty with panicky eyes.

Hardin looks her over coldly.    He doesn't believe she

doesn't know,

Racine is recovering. He gives Hardin a quick, ugly look,

then turns toward Matty, and speaks quietly.

It seems to take a long moment for Matty to fully digest

this. It takes not quite as long for Roz.

Her face goes through several transformations: confusion

to disbelief to despair, then on in the direction of

outrage.

Lowenstein's eyes are flashing around at the faces.    He

seems genuinely amused.

Hardin is an unconvinced audience.   He nods.

Matty seems still in shook.

EXT. PARKING LOT BEHIND SHILLER, HASTINGS (WEST PALM

BEACH) - DAY

Matty, Racine, Roz, Lowenstein and Hardin stand talking

in a little cluster near the building. They say their

good-byes with much handshaking. Matty lays a reassuring

hand on Roz's arm and kisses her on the cheek. As she

breaks from the crowd, Racine walks with her. The others

stand talking a little longer. Racine takes off his jacket

in the blazing Heat. He is very aware of the little group

behind them as he walks with Matty to her Mercedes. When

they are out of earshot --

Behind them the group breaks up, Hardin goes back into

the building and Lowenstein walks Roz the short distance

to her car. Matty reaches the door of her car and turns

to Racine.

She takes his hand and shakes it for show.

Matty gets into her car.

At the far end of the parking lots Lowenstein has been

watching them as he makes his way to his car. Now, as he

moves between two rows of cars, he executes a few nifty

dance steps, just like Fred Astaire.

EXT. RACINE'S BUILDING - DAY

Racine, jacket over his shoulder and briefcase in hand,

leaves the Stingray at the curb and goes into the big

house of which his apartment is the top floor.

INT. STAIRWAY - RACINE'S BUILDING - DAY

Racine trudges up the dark steps in the heat. As he

approaches the door to his place, he senses that someone

is there. He tries the knob and the door swings open

slowly, revealing Peter Lowenstein, reading a book at the

bookcase and, lounging out on the porch, Detective Oscar

Grace. The three look at each other a beat and then Racine

comes in,

INT. RACINE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Racine gets rid of his briefcase and jacket as Grace comes

in from the porch.

Oscar indicates "no" as Racine takes one from the

refrigerator for himself and begins unbuttoning his shirt.

There is a pregnant pause as Racine takes off his shirt

and leans against the refrigerator.

Racine takes it in, sucks on his beer.

Racine looks a little skeptical. He thinks about it as he

moves to a chair.

Racine shrugs, he doesn't know.

Lowenstein and Grace look at him a long time.

Racine considers a moment.

They both get up to leave. Racine watches from the chair.

They did. Racine grins. He stands up and comes right up

to them.

They look at him with some concern.

Racine smiles cheerfully and puts a reassuring arm around

Lowenstein's shoulder, leading him to the door.

Lowenstein is out the door now. He looks at Racine in

wonder. He shakes his head and goes down the steps.

Racine turns, smiling, to Grace, but Oscar is grim.

Racine reassures his friend with touch and Oscar leaves.

INT. WALKER HOUSE - ENTRY HALL - NIGHT

Matty closes the front door behind Racine and wraps her

arms around him. She kisses him hard and long on the mouth,

then starts on his neck. He begins to push her away but

she clings to him, eating him up.

She takes his hand and drags him to the steps and leads

the way up, her eyes on him always.

He lets her lead him up the stairs.

INT. MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

They lie in bed. The wind chimes TINKLE outside.

She moves up over him and looks into his face.

She puts her head on his chest as Racine lights a

cigarette.

Racine thinks about this awhile.     He exhales a stream of

smoke.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY

Lowenstein makes Heather and Roz comfortable in the waiting

room, then goes through the gate partition, nods at the

Cop Clerk on duty, and goes into Oscar Grace's office, re-

closing the door behind him.

INT. GRACE'S OFFICE - DAY

It's cramped, hot, cluttered. There is one other door

out of the office. Grace has his feet up on his desk.

He's nursing a bottle of Coke and looking at Racine, who

stands across the office, leaning on a file cabinet and

glaring between sentences. Racine gives Lowenstein an

ugly look then returns his attention to Grace. Racine is

angry, but in control.

There is silence.   Lowenstein looks between them, speaks

to Grace.

Grace is pained by all this, but his tone is scolding,

defensive.

Lowenstein goes to Oscar's desk and takes a pull from the

bottle of Coke.

Grace, exasperated, indicates that he didn't.

Racine is still staring at Grace.    He barely seems to pay

attention.

Lowenstein looks at him a long moment.    Racine watches

them.

The three men look at each other.   Lowenstein breaks into

laughter.

There is a long pause.   The other two look at Racine.

Racine looks first at Lowenstein, then at Grace.

Racine is neutral.   He indicates the front entrance.

Lowenstein nods.   Racine opens the door and goes out of

the office.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY

Racine walks out of Grace's office. Lowenstein watches

him go. Heather is absorbed in a magazine and Roz is

distracted with her cigarette. Racine could keep on

walking, but instead he walks over to Roz. She jumps

when he speaks to her.

She seems confused about how to act toward him.   Heather

looks up casually. Racine shakes Roz's hand.

Racine crouches in front of Heather and smiles at her.

She nods.   He shakes her hand.

Heather nods uncertainly.

Racine walks away.   Heather watches him go.   Roz turns to

Heather.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

Racine walks down the sidewalk and enters Stella's Coffee

Shop.

INT. STELLA'S COFFEE SHOP - DAY

As Racine comes in the front door, Stella is leaning over

the counter in a gossipy huddle with a Cop and Glenda,

the Meter Maid. When Stella notices Racine, she breaks

off suddenly and moves away. The Cop and Glenda see Racine

and go back to their food with great deliberateness.

Racine takes all this in and settles at the other end of

the counter.

Racine signals for her to bring it on.   He swivels around

and looks out at the Court House.

LATER.

Same shot. Lowenstein appears on the sidewalk across the

street. He crosses over to Stella's and comes in.

He spots Racine and comes over to the counter with a light

dance-walk, breaking into actual dance only as he

Pirouettes before landing in the stool beside Racine.

Racine is almost done with his lunch.

Lowenstein looks at Racine and smiles.

Stella puts the two ice teas in front of Lowenstein.

Lowenstein has to give her a look before she backs away.

Lowenstein leans in confidentially toward Racine.

Lowenstein begins to shake with laughter; he almost falls

off the stool. Racine is confused. Lowenstein recovers

his balance and lowers his voice again. There are tears

in his eyes.

Lowenstein starts to choke with laughter.    He takes a

drink. Racine is smiling now, too.

Lowenstein rocks with laughter.    And Racine does too.

INT. ENTRY HALL - WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Matty has been pushed roughly across the entry hall. Her

back hits hard against the wall at the front of the central

hall. She rubs  her wrist where the skin is red and looks

with frightened eyes at Racine.

Racine thinks that's crazy.

Matty walks over and sits at the bottom of the steps.

She looks up at him.

Racine sits next to her.   He rubs his eyes.

Matty turns and leans against him, looking into his face,

full of love.

His arms enclose her.

INT. REGISTRATION DESK - HILTON HOTEL - MIAMI - DAY

Oscar Grace has been talking to the Desk Clerk, who now

disappears and returns with the Hotel Manager.

INT. BOOKKEEPING OFFICE - HILTON - DAY

Oscar and the Hotel Manager watch as a Data Clerk extracts

a sheet of freshly-printed billing information from a

computer. He points to a section of the read-out.

EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE - HILTON HOTEL - DAY

Oscar talks to the Parking Attendant who handled Racine's

Stingray. Oscar looks around the structure.

INT. CORRIDOR - HILTON HOTEL - DAY

The door to a hotel room is open in the foreground, but

Oscar is down the hall looking at the door to the

stairwell.

INT. MIAMI POLICE DEPARTMENT - DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY

Oscar sits across the desk from a Plainclothes Cop, who

is talking on the phone. The Plainclothes Cop hears what

he wants on the phone and nods to Oscar, tapping a spot

on a list that lies before him. Oscar gets up and looks

to see where he's pointing.

EXT. HERTZ RENT-A-CAR OFFICE - DAY

Oscar can be seen inside, talking to the Attendant on

duty.

EXT. REAL ESTATE OFFICE - NIGHT

Oscar, totally beat, sits in his car. The Real Estate

Agent we saw with Racine comes up, unctuously ushering

Two Businessmen. As he shows them inside, Oscar approaches

him, getting out his I.D. He and the Real Estate Agent

shake hands.

EXT. THE MOON AND THE OCEAN - NIGHT

It's the middle of the night. Bright under a full moon.

And very quiet. The surf can be heard LAPPING at the beach.

And then we hear HUMMING.

EXT. THE PIER - NIGHT

No sign of life. Still the HUMMING; it's a Broadway show

tune.

EXT. END OF THE PIER - NIGHT

Lowenstein is there, all alone, silhouetted in the

moonlight. He uses the rail like a ballet bar, returning

to it each time he finishes a small combination of dance

steps. The moves are not extravagant, there is not

highkicking. Just a nice, smooth little combination that

Lowenstein is repeating, again and again.

He HUMS his own accompaniment. Then, softly at first,

from the distance, comes the THUMPING of running shoes on

old wood. It grows as Lowenstein completes another

repetition. When the THUMPING has gotten close, it slows,

then stops raggedly. Lowenstein looks that way.

Racine walks up, dripping sweat, already extracting his

cigarettes from his shorts.

Lowenstein nods and turns to lean over the rail. Racine

offers him a cigarette. Lowenstein accepts and Racine

lights both of theirs. Lowenstein glances at Racine's

pack as Racine puts it away.

They look at the ocean.

Lowenstein glances at Racine, but only for a moment.

Racine turns around, drapes his arms back along the rail

and lets his head loll, like a tired runner.

Racine looks at him.

Lowenstein steps away, toward the street. He looks sad.

He turns and walks away.

Racine watches him go. He takes out his pack of cigarettes

and extracts one. He stares at the pack in his hand.

EXT. FRONT TERRACE - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

The house is dark. Racine tries the door a last time.

(He's still in his sweaty running clothes.) No good. No

one here. Racine peers inside one final time. He is looking

through the new glass in the same little window shot out

by Edmund's gun. The wind chimes TINKLE loudly.

EXT. INTERSTATE 95 - DAY

Racine's Stingray whips south in the morning light.

INT. RACINE'S CAR - DAY

Racine is shaved and showered and wearing a tie, but he

doesn't look fresh. His mind is elsewhere. He looks off

to his left. Miami sits on the horizon.

INT. ELEVATOR - SKYSCRAPER - DAY

The elevator is packed with lawyers. They're heading out

to lunch. They wear expensive suits. Racine is backed

into a corner. He watches them, as though from a distance.

He looks different from them.

INT. LOBBY - SKYSCRAPER - DAY

The lawyers pile out of the elevator. A few carry

briefcases. Racine finally appears. He too carries a

briefcase. He looks across the huge lobby at the entrance

to a restaurant/bar.

INT. RESTAURANT/BAR - SKYSCRAPER - DAY

Racine sits at the bar with a drink. Once more, he glances

diagonally to the end of the bar, at a guy in a three-

piece suit. The guy seems to be looking at Racine whenever

he isn't watching the front entrance. Finally the guy can

control himself no longer. He picks up his drink and walks

around the bar to the space next to Racine. His name is

MICHAEL GLENN and he's bright, successful and irritating.

The two men are on the edge of remembering each other.

The smile fades from Racine's face.

It comes back to Glenn in a flash. He wishes he hadn't

come up.

Racine nods. Glenn looks him over, smiles; he's

ingratiating.

Glenn remembers something. He smiles confidentially.

Racine looks at him blankly.

Racine stares at him. Glenn sees his party at the entrance.

He offers his hand.

He starts to move away. Racine grabs him by his tie and

pulls him back hard. The people nearby turn in alarm.

Racine speaks very quietly to the startled Glenn.

Racine twists his grip on Glenn's tie. Glenn starts to

choke.

Racine lets him go.

EXT. FRONT OF WALKER HOUSE - DUSK

Racine's Stingray tears up the drive and SQUEALS to a

stop in the parking area. Racine looks at the house from

the car. It looks deserted as before. He pulls the Stingray

onto the lawn and drives all the way around the house,

then out the drive through his own dust.

EXT. PORCH - RACINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Racine stares out at the ocean. He lights another cigarette

and lifts a glass of bourbon to his lips. Suddenly, he

laughs, short and harsh. But the smile fades quickly.

INT. RECEPTION AREA - RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine comes in carrying his briefcase. Beverly looks him

over critically; he doesn't look so good.

Racine nods, turns back to the door.

Racine stops for a moment and looks at her. He smiles and

goes out.

INT. COUNTY JAIL - VISITING ROOM - DAY

Teddy Laursen sits across the table from Racine. Teddy,

too, looks a little ragged. Nervous.

Racine watches him.

Teddy looks around nervously. Racine waits.

Teddy searches Racine's face, trying to see if the story

was true. He's not surprised that it's not.

Racine looks at him blankly.

Racine pushes his chair back. Teddy seems torn about saying

more. He forces himself to --

Racine gets up.

INT. RACINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Racine listens to the endless ringing on the other end of

his call and slowly hangs up. The phone rings in the

reception room and Beverly picks it up, then hits the

hold button.

Racine swivels in his chair so that he can see Beverly in

the reception room. Beverly is just replacing the receiver

on the hook and for a moment, she gives Racine a strange,

ambivalent look. Racine watches her as she goes back to

work and speaks quietly into the phone.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org         110.

Racine is silent.

She clicks off. Racine puts down the phone and stares at

it.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - COUNTY JAIL - DAY

Teddy Laursen watches as Oscar Grace and another Detective

come into the room. They look grim.

Teddy reacts. It's the first time for him.

Teddy looks at him. Teddy is hurting.

INT. RACINE'S CAR - DUSK

Racine drives. The Stingray passes the sign --

The town looks well tended.

EXT. BOAT HOUSE - WALKER HOUSE - DAY

Racine comes down the lawn. He walks slowly toward the

boathouse. His walk is unsteady. Racine moves around to

the front of the boathouse and steps onto its wooden porch.

Racine's focus is on the doorknob of the closed door.

But he moves past it to the window. The curtains have

been carefully drawn across it; it is impossible to see

beyond them into the boathouse. Except... except for one

little slice at the bottom of the window where the curtains

are held apart a fraction of an inch by something. Racine

crouches down to look through the crack.

WHAT RACINE SEES. The curtains are being held apart this

little bit by a wire. A wire which is attached to the

window and runs tautly back into the gloom of the

boathouse. Racine shifts his head an inch and he can see

another wire. It originates from that same spot back in

the gloom and runs toward the door, although Racine, with

this limited view, cannot actually see where the wire is

attached. But Racine is not really trying --

Racine has rocked back on his heels away from the window.

He stands up and steps away from the boathouse. You might

call it a stagger.

INT. GRACE'S OFFICE - POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lowenstein is in a chair. Grace is turned away, looking

out the window at the dark street. They both look dejected.

After a long silence --

EXT. REAR OF WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

The house looms darkly. Racine has packed the Stingray in

the black shadows of the big tree behind the house, hiding

it. He starts to walk back around the driveway side of

the house when something catches his eye at the other end

of the house. He walks over there.

Close to that far wall, in shadow as deep as the one he

has just used is, to Racine's surprise -- Matty's

Mercedes. Racine stares at the car.

EXT. RACINE'S BUILDING - NIGHT

Grace comes out of the house and walks to his car,

thinking.

INT. EDMUND'S CLOSET - MATTY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Racine pushes aside some clothes and reaches up to a high

shelf. He feels around until he's got what he wants.

He pulls down the wooden case and opens it. Inside is

Edmund's .38 revolver.

EXT. DRAWBRIDGE ACROSS THE CANAL - NIGHT

Grace's car is among a dozen held up by the raised

drawbridge. A sailboat is gliding slowly through. Grace

is outside his car, leaning against it.

EXT. GAZEBO -- WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Close on Racine's watch -- ten-o-five.

The wind chimes on the gazebo TINKLE. Racine sits smoking

in the shadows. He takes another drink from a glass of

liquor. All the lights on the lawn, gazebo and boathouse

are off. Racine hears something and peers toward the

driveway. Headlights move very slowly up the drive toward

the house. It is Edmund's Cadillac, glowing in the

moonlight.

The Cadillac stops in front of the house and for several

moments nothing happens. Then Matty gets out of the car

Waterway.

She is wearing the same white dress she was wearing when

Racine first saw her and she is luminous in the moonlight.

Racine watches from the blackness of the gazebo. Silently.

Matty walks twenty feet past the gazebo and stops when

she can make out the boathouse in the gloom. She stares

at it a moment then turns back toward the house.

Racine steps to the edge of the gazebo. Matty seems

startled for only a split second.

Matty comes up the steps and puts her arms around him.

She closes her eyes as she hugs him. They are one figure

melded in the gloom.

Suddenly she backs away from him, down the steps, her

white dress moving back into the bright moonlight from

the shadow of the gazebo. She looks up at Racine.

He has it in his hand now. He looks it over casually, but

the barrel is toward her.

EXT. STREET NEAR WALKER PLACE - NIGHT

Grace's car moves up the street past the gated drives.

EXT. BACK LAWN - NIGHT

Racine is at the bottom of the gazebo steps now. Matty

has backed away, toward the Waterway.

Racine laughs, short and bitterly.

Matty is silent. She starts to speak, but nothing comes

out. Now there is real fear in her eyes.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - WALKER HOUSE - NIGHT

Grace's car moves down the drive.

EXT. BACK LAWN - NIGHT

Racine has moved closer to Matty, away from the house.

They are only six feet apart. Tears are now rolling down

Matty's cheeks.

She turns and starts walking toward the ocean. Just as

she is about to disappear into the shadows, she turns

back to him.

AT THE CORNER OF THE HOUSE

Grace has gotten out of his car. He starts toward the

front door, but sees Racine out on the lawn. He heads out

in that direction, but stops as Racine steps into a bright

spot of moonlit lawn and the gun's shiny silverplate glints

in the light. The gun is pointed at the retreating Matty.

Grace pulls his own gun from a shoulder holster and raises

it. He is about to call out, when Matty disappears

completely in the gloom. Racine lowers the revolver wearily

and stares out toward the boathouse. Grace lowers his

gun and looks out there too. He moves slowly forward.

Close on Racine's face. It's changing now. It's not just

that he's very tired. The hardness is going out of his

look. As the seconds tick by, and Matty does not reappear,

he begins to lose faith in his view of the world. He begins

to be afraid. Afraid for Matty. Even now.

A sudden breeze starts the wind chimes TINKLING loudly.

Racine breaks into a run, dropping the revolver on the

grass. He has taken two big strides when --

There is a sound like the ROAR of a dragon, and the roof

of the boathouse lifts and then disappears in a huge BALL

OF FLAME. The air is  sucked around Racine's body, whipping

at his clothes, as he stumbles on the lawn and falls

forward.

Grace steadies himself against the side of the gazebo.

Racine knows horror. He struggles to his feet and stumbles

toward the fire. His body is silhouetted against the

leaping, ROARING flames in the night sky.

INT. RACINE'S CELL BLOCK - FLORIDA STATE PENITENTIARY -

NIGHT

Absolute quiet. We move above cell after cell, dark with

sleeping convicts.

We stop at Racine's cell. It is dark like the rest. Racine

is in there alone. We move down close to his sleeping

form. He looks thinner.

Suddenly he wakes with a start! His eyes snap open wide;

he is totally and instantly awake. He talks to himself,

with true amazement.

INT. VISITORS CENTER - FLORIDA STATE PENITENTIARY - DAY

Grace sits on the other side of the glass from Racine.

They talk on telephones. Grace's eyes are sad; they say

he thinks Racine is going crazy.

Grace is unreceptive to this. But Racine is charged.

Racine peaks, tapping the glass between them as though it

were all there for Grace to see.

Oscar isn't buying.

Racine, calmer now, shakes his head "no."

Racine confirms Grace's fears with a look that can only

be called half-crazed. There's the glimmer of a rueful

smile.

These words have no special import to Grace. He looks at

Racine without hope.

Grace gives him a long look, then hangs up the phone. He

stands up and walks away. Racine sits and stares.

INT. RACINE'S CELL BLOCK - DAY

Racine, bearded now, comes to the front of his cell to

get his mail. A Trustee hands through a book-size manila

envelope, which has been neatly opened by the prison

authorities. Racine looks at the return address and becomes

very intense. He sits on his cot and slides out a book. A

letter is clipped to the front. Racine scans it quickly

and begins looking through the book.

It is an old high school yearbook. Racine's fingers are

shaking slightly as they leaf quickly past black and white

scenes of youthful innocence among the Wheaton High School

Cougars of 1966.

He reaches the individual pictures of the seniors and hi

hurries through the O's and R's to the T's.

Racine's eyes are darting over the pages. Suddenly they

stop. He has found her entry. We see it too --

MARY ANN TYLER

Home Economics "Matty"

TRI-Y 29 39 4. CHORUS

Ambition -- "To Graduate"

The picture is not great. The pretty face is a little

cheap-looking. It is not the Matty he knew. It is her

friend from the back verandah, Mary Ann.

Racine's eyes dart. He thinks. Then, he flips back a few

pages. He finds what he wants --

MARY ANN SIMPSON

English

TRI-Y 2, 3, 4; CHORUS 2, 3, 4

HOMECOMING PRINCESS 3, 4; SWIMMING 2, 3

Ambition-- "To be rich and live in an exotic land."

We're very close on the type of her ambition when we pan

up the page to her smiling face. Her smile is so big, she

seems almost to be laughing.

Racine's face. That's the woman he loved.

Back to her picture. We're moving in on it. Closer. Closer.

And then through it --

To her real face, this Matty, this Mary Ann, alive and

fine in the sun of --

EXT. A HIGH PATIO - AN EXOTIC LAND - DAY

One shot, very close on that lovely face, moving around

it in a tight half-circle that barely lets us glimpse the

sun-drenched, foreign town far below and the tropical

foliage that surrounds the patio. For one brief moment,

she seems to be crying. But no, it is not a tear. It is a

little drop of sweat. She wipes it from her cheek as she

turns to an unseen male COMPANION, who has spoken to her

in Spanish. She wipes her eyes and looks off at him.

She turns her face to the sun.

