FADE IN.

INT. BEDROOM.  CLOSE-UP OF BONNIE PARKER.  DAY

Blonde, somewhat fragile, intelligent in expression.  She is

putting on make-up with intense concentration and

appreciation, applying lipstick and eye make-up.  As the

camera slowly pulls back from the closeup we see that we

have been looking into a mirror.  She is standing before the

full-length mirror in her bedroom doing her make-up.  She

overdoes it in the style of the time: rosebud mouth and so

forth.  As the film progresses her make-up will be refined

until, at the end, there is none.

The camera pulls back and continues to move very slowly

throughout the first part of this scene.  As the camera

continues to move away, we see, by degrees, that BONNIE is

naked.  Her nudity is never blatantly revealed to the

audience, but implied.  That is, she should be "covered" in

various ways from the camera's P.O.V., but the audience must

be aware of her exposure to CLYDE later in the scene.  This

is the only time in the film that she will ever be this

exposed, in all senses of the word, to the audience.  Her

attitude and appraisal of herself here are touched with

narcissism.

The bedroom itself is a second-story bedroom in a lower-

class frame house in West Dallas, Texas.  The neighborhood

is low income.  Though the room reveals its shabby

surroundings, it also reveals an attempt by BONNIE to fix it

up.  Small and corny objets d'art are all over the tops of

the bureaus, vanity tables, etc. (Little glass figurines and

porcelain statuettes and the like.)

BONNIE finishes admiring herself.  She walks from the mirror

and moves slowly across the room, the camera moving with

her, until she reaches the screened window on the opposite

wall.  The shade is up.  There are no curtains.  She looks

out the window, looking down, and the camera looks down with

her.

EXT. BEDROOM.  BONNIE'S P.O.V.  DAY.

Over her shoulder, we see the driveway leading to the garage

connected to the house.  There is an old car parked in the

driveway, its windows open.  We see a man walking up the

driveway, somewhat furtively.  He is a rather dapper fellow,

dressed in a dark suit with a vest, a white collar, and a

straw boater.  It is CLYDE BARROW.  Obviously, he is about

to steal the car.  He looks it over, checking around him to

make sure no passers-by are coming.  He peers inside the

front window to see if the keys are in the ignition.  He

studies the dashboard.  BONNIE continues watching, silently.

Finally she calls out.

EXT. DRIVEWAY.  DAY.

CLYDE, startled, jumps and looks to see who has caught him.

Obviously frightened, he looks up and his face freezes at

what he sees.

EXT. WINDOW.  CLYDE'S P.O.V.  DAY.

We now see what he is looking at: at the open window,

revealed from the waist up, is the naked BONNIE.  She looks

down, an impudent half-smile on her face.  She doesn't move

or make any attempt to cover herself.

EXT. CLOSE-UP OF CLYDE - DAY -

-- whose face changes from astonishment to an answering

smile of impudence.  (Seeing what he has, he realizes that

this girl is clearly not going to scream for the police.

Already they are in a little game instigated by BONNIE,

sizing each other up, competing in a kind of playful

arrogance.  Before they speak, they have become

coconspirators.)

Close-up of BONNIE, still smiling.  Finally she speaks.

INT. BEDROOM.  DAY.

Running from the window, she flings open a closet and grabs

a dress, and shoes.  She slips on the shoes, and flings the

dress on, running out the door as she does.  The camera

tracks with her, moving as fast.  As she runs down the

stairs she buttons up the dress.

EXT. DRIVEWAY.  DAY.

She flies out the door, slamming it behind her, runs off the

porch (all this has been one continuous movement since she

left the window, in great haste) and continues quickly into

the driveway.  Four feet away from CLYDE, she stops on a

dime.  They stand there, looking at each other, smiling the

same challenge.  For a few seconds, no one speaks, then:

EXT. STREET.  MOVING SHOT.  DAY.

The camera tracks.  It is a hot Texas afternoon, all white

light and glare.  As they walk the block to town in this

scene, their manner of mutual impudence is still pervading.

They reach the corner and turn.  They are on:

EXT. MAIN STREET.  DAY.

--a small-town street of barber shops, cafes, groceries, etc.

At the moment, it is deserted.  They continue walking down

the empty street.  CLYDE looks the place over.  Tracking.

CLYDE laughs, enjoying her repartee.  They continue walking.

At a hydrant, CLYDE stops.

They continue walking in silence past a few stores, each

planning what next to say.

EXT. GAS STATION.  DAY.

Gas station up the block.  BONNIE and CLYDE are seen leaning

against the soft drink chest, their profiles silhouetted by

the bright sun.  They are drinking cokes.  As they begin to

talk, the camera moves in closer to them.  CLYDE takes off

his hat and rubs the cold coke bottle across his forehead.

BONNIE watches him.

Close-up.  Gun.  Day.  He reaches in his jacket and pulls

out a gun.  The camera moves to a closeup of the gun,

glinting in the sunlight.

EXT. STREET.  DAY.

The camera pulls back to show BONNIE looking at it with

fascination.  The weapon has an immediate effect on her.

She touches it in a manner almost sexual, full of repressed

excitement.

EXT. LITTLE GROCERY STORE ACROSS THE STREET.  DAY.

The camera remains just behind BONNIE's shoulder so that

throughout the following scene we have BONNIE in the picture,

looking at what we look at.

CLYDE goes into the little store.  We remain outside with

BONNIE watching.  For a minute nothing happens.  We can

barely see what is going on in the store.  Then CLYDE comes

out, walking slowly.  In one hand he holds the gun, in the

other a fistful of money.  He gets halfway, to BONNIE and

smiles broadly at her, a smile of charm and personality.

She smiles back.  The moment is intense, as if a spark has

jumped from one to the other.  Their relationship, which

began the minute BONNIE spotted him in the driveway, has now

really begun.  CLYDE has shown his stuff and BONNIE is

"turned on."

Suddenly the old man who runs the grocery store comes

running out into the street, completely dumbfounded.  He

stands there and says nothing, yet his mouth moves in silent

protest.  CLYDE points the gun above him and fires.  It is

the first loud noise in the film thus far and it should be a

shock.  The old man, terrified, runs back into the store as

fast as he can, CLYDE quickly grabs BONNIE's hand.  The

camera swings with them as they turn and begin to run down

the street.  A few yards and the stores disappear entirely.

The landscape turns into that arid, flat and unrelieved

western plain that begins where the town ends.

EXT. STORE.  AT THE EDGE OF TOWN.  DAY.

A car is parked at the back of the store.  As soon as they

reach it, CLYDE motions and BONNIE gets in.  CLYDE runs to

the front, lifts up the hood and crosses the wires to make

it start.  As he stands back, BONNIE calls to him:

He runs over to the door, opens it, shoves her over, and

starts up the engine.  The entire sequence is played at an

incredible rapid pace.

EXT. ROAD.  DAY.

VROOM!  The car zooms off down the road, doing 90.  The fast

country breakdown music starts up on the sound track, going

just as fast as the car.

EXT. CAR.  DAY.

The car, still speeding, further down the road.  We zoom

down and look in the rear window.  CLYDE is driving, we see

from behind.  BONNIE is all over him, biting his ear,

ruffling his hair, running her hands all over him--in short,

making passionate love to him while he drives.  The thrill

of the robbery and the escape has turned her on sexually.

EXT. CAR.  ANOTHER ANGLE.  DAY.

The camera pulls back and above the car.  The car starts to

go crazy in a comical fashion, manifesting to the audience

just what is happening to the driver controlling it.  The

car swerves all over the road.  The car comes to a sudden

halt.  The car starts again.  It swerves this time almost

right off the road before it straightens out.  It jumps and

jerks.  Another car comes down the road the other way and

CLYDE's car swerves so much as to make the other guy drive

right off the road into the dirt.  It is almost Mack Sennett

stuff, but not quite that much.

INT. CAR.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DAY.

BONNIE grabs the wheel and turns it sharply.

EXT. CAR.  DAY.

It hairpins off the road onto a shoulder beneath some trees.

INT. CAR.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DAY.

--still settling to a stop.  BONNIE and CLYDE appear to be

necking heavily now, punctuated by BONNIE's squeals of

passion as she squirms and hops about like a flea, trying to

get to CLYDE.  The floor gear-shift is keeping their bodies

apart, however.  In exasperation, BONNIE takes the gear

shift and shoves it forward out of their way.  She plunges

onto CLYDE, burying him from view.

BONNIE has obviously touched him.  With savage coquetry she

tears into her clothes and his.

He shoves her rudely away, slamming her into the far car

door.  Suddenly it looks as if they've been fighting.  Both

unbuttoned and unglued, they stare silently at one another,

breathing heavily.  CLYDE gets out of the car, clearly

shaken.  Despite the fact that he may have encountered this

situation many times before, it's one that no twenty-one-

year-old boy in 1932 is sophisticated enough to dismiss

easily with bravado.

BONNIE remains seated in the car.  She seems terribly

vulnerable.  She fumbles about for a cigarette, too confused

to figure out what didn't happen.  CLYDE turns back and

reaches through the car window from the driver's side,

lighting it for her.  BONNIE casts CLYDE a fishy stare, then

accepts the light.

BONNIE doesn't know what she thinks, and CLYDE is trying to

gauge her reaction--whether she feels rejected or repelled.

In fact, it's both--along with a little latent fascination.

She gets out of car, leaving CLYDE draped across the front

seat, reaching after her.

This stops her.  Now CLYDE pours it on, with an almost

maniacal exuberance that becomes more controlled as he gets

control of BONNIE.

BONNIE is hooked now.

He stops, having begun to woo her to something more intense

than a casual, physical coupling.

Close-up.  BONNIE.

INT. ROADSIDE CAFE.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DAY.

BONNIE and CLYDE seated in booth, now C.U. CLYDE.  The sound

track bridges the scene: the question that BONNIE has just

asked is now suddenly rebutted by CLYDE, as he points a

finger at her.

He loves doing this and he does it well.  The more he

envisions BONNIE's life, the more instinctively accurate he

becomes.  She grows more and more fascinated, like a child

watching a mind reader.

Pull back taking in BONNIE, favoring CLYDE.

BONNIE is half-mesmerized by his talk.  A waitress comes

with their food.  A cheap, gaudy dame, she has spit curls on

each temple in the style of the times.  CLYDE looks at her

and at BONNIE, who also wears spit curls.  As soon as the

waitress leaves:

Without a word of protest, BONNIE immediately reaches in her

bag and takes out a mirror.  She holds it up and with the

other hand, brushes back her spit curls into her hair.  She

never again wears them.  When she has pushed them back she

looks at CLYDE for his approval.  He nods his okay.  She

smiles, puts back her mirror and begins to eat her food.

She's ravenously hungry and eats with total concentration on

her plate.  CLYDE doesn't touch his food, just watches

BONNIE eat for a minute.

EXT. ROADSIDE CAFE.  DAY FOR DUSK.

CLYDE and BONNIE emerge from the cafe into the early evening.

They move toward the car they have stolen.  Just beyond sits

a newer model car.  BONNIE is surprised to see CLYDE head

toward the newer car.

She walks amazed around the new car and gets in beside him.

He turns the key and they pull away from the cafe.

INT. ABANDONED FARM HOUSE.  A WIDE SHOT OF THE PARLOR LIVING

ROOM.  DAY.

The room is bare.  In the middle BONNIE is waking, having

slept on a couple of car seats covered with an old piece of

tattered blanket.  There are windows behind her.  She looks

about bewildered.

She starts to panic and runs to the window.

At another window CLYDE appears.

BONNIE moves to the door and out of the house.

EXT. FARM HOUSE.  FRONT YARD.  DAY.

On the door is a sign which reads:

INSERT:

PROPERTY OF MIDLOTHIAN CITIZENS BANK -- TRESPASSERS WILL BE

PROSECUTED.

Wide angle.  Across fence.  Day.  On the dilapidated picket

fence six old bottles have been placed.  As BONNIE joins

CLYDE he turns and fires six quick shots.  The bottles

disappear.

Wider angle.  They move around to the side of the building

where CLYDE points to a tire hanging by a rope from a tree.

He means that to be BONNIE's target.  He hands her a gun.

BONNIE fires.  She misses.

BONNIE fires again and hits the tire.  She smiles and blows

the smoke from the barrel in pride and self-mockery.

BONNIE sights.  As she is about to fire, a man appears

around the corner of the building.  A FARMER.  She fires and

hits the tire.

CLYDE whirls at the sound.  He grabs gun from BONNIE because

his is empty.  He aims at FARMER.

CLYDE watches him warily.

CLYDE and BONNIE start to move toward the farmer.  All three

move around to the front of the building.  At a distance we

see an Okie car loaded with belongings.  A WOMAN with a BABY

in arms sits in front.  A smaller BOY stands outside the car.

CLYDE shakes his head sympathetically.  He loads the empty

gun.

He looks up to see an OLD NEGRO who has come from a distance

shack and now stands near CLYDE's car.

He stands a moment looking at the house and then turns

around toward his family in the car.  CLYDE and BONNIE look

after him.  CLYDE spins and fires three fast shots into the

fore-closure sign.  The FARMER stops and turns, looking at

CLYDE.  CLYDE offers the gun to the farmer.  He looks at it,

then accepts it.  He slowly takes aim at the sign and fires.

It pleases him.  He looks at CLYDE and BONNIE who smile.

BONNIE and CLYDE are puzzled.

The NEGRO moves toward them.  Now BONNIE understands.  She

takes the second gun from CLYDE and hands it to DAVIS.

DAVIS looks from BONNIE to the FARMER and toward the house.

The FARMER fires again.  This time at a window.  He nods to

DAVIS.  DAVIS slowly raises the gun and fires at another

window.  It shatters and they can't keep from laughing.  The

FARMER returns the gun as does DAVIS.

He extends his hand.  CLYDE shakes it.

Across farmer's car.  Wide shot.  Day.  The FARMER turns and

moves toward his people.  DAVIS moves toward his shack.

CLYDE and BONNIE in the b.g.

Close angle.  BONNIE and CLYDE.

BONNIE turns quickly to look at CLYDE.  He smiles and nods.

FADE IN.

EXT. A LONG, COUNTRY ROAD.  DAY.

A car is driving down it.  It is the next day.  BONNIE is

driving, CLYDE beside her.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

BONNIE's hands are tense on the wheel.  Her face shows how

nervous she is now that the time has come.

They drive in silence.

EXT. BUSINESS STREET OF A LITTLE TOWN.  DAY.

We are still in the car.  BONNIE pulls over and stops by the

bank.  CLYDE is frozen in his seat.  We can see that, for

all his talk, he is scared, too.

That gets him.  CLYDE throws the door open and jumps,

practically dives out the door.  The camera follows his

motion right inside the bank, tracking very fast.

INT. BANK #1.  DAY.

Something is very screwy here.  The bank is dark, the TELLER

is half asleep over his books.  CLYDE approaches, thrusts

the gun at him.

The camera pans around the bank.  We see that it is empty,

dusty and shuttered.

In a rage, he goes behind the partition, grabs the teller

and pushes him ahead with the gun.  CLYDE is fuming.  He

forces the teller out the front door.

EXT. BANK #1.  DAY.

--showing BONNIE in the car.  She is terrified as she sees

CLYDE and the TELLER coming at her.  She doesn't understand

what is happening.

BONNIE's reaction is one of hysterical relief and

appreciation of what's funny in the situation.  She laughs

uproariously, she can't stop laughing.  This makes CLYDE

madder than ever.  He shoves the teller to the ground.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

Completely humiliated, CLYDE gets in the car, shoving BONNIE

over.  She is still laughing.  BONNIE starts the car.  CLYDE

points his gun out the window.

Close shot.  Bank window--whereon is lettered: ASSETS-$70,000.

INT. CAR.  CLYDE AND BONNIE.  DAY.

Angle to include bank window.  CLYDE aims and puts a bullet

through each of the zeros.  We see each zero shot through.

Then the entire window hangs there for a second and suddenly

crashes.  On the soundtrack, BONNIE's laughter.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

--still driving.  BONNIE has still not fully recovered from

her mirth, but is quieting down because she sees that CLYDE

is really mad and can't be pushed too far.

She tries to stop.

EXT. STREET.  DAY.

The car pulls down another street of shops in another little

hick town.  A grocery store ahead.

INT. CAR.

INT. GROCERY STORE.  DAY.

There is an old CLERK behind the counter, and standing in

the b.g., almost out of our vision, is a BUTCHER--an enormous

giant of a man.  CLYDE steps up to the counter.

The CLERK gets the order and puts it in a bag.  He rings

open the cash register preparatory to asking CLYDE for the

money.  CLYDE pulls his gun.

He reaches over the counter into the cash drawer and grabs

the bills.  He smiles.  Suddenly looming beside CLYDE is the

BUTCHER, brandishing a meat cleaver.  Camera looks up at

this formidable sight as the cleaver comes crashing down,

missing CLYDE and sticking in the wooden counter.  He grabs

CLYDE around the chest in a bear hug and actually lifts him

off the ground.  The struggle is in silence.  CLYDE is

terrified, fighting wildly to get free.  The gun in CLYDE's

hand is pinned, because the man has CLYDE's arm pinned to

his thigh.  CLYDE tries to raise the barrel at an upward

angle to shoot, finally he is able to do so.  He fires.  The

bullet enters the BUTCHER's stomach.  The BUTCHER screams,

but reacts like a wounded animal, more furious than ever.

He still holds CLYDE in a fierce hug, staggering around the

store, knocking into shelves and spilling cans.  CLYDE is

hysterical with fear.  He shoots the BUTCHER again.  The

BUTCHER falls to his knees, but still he doesn't release

CLYDE.  In a panic, CLYDE drags the man to the door, trying

to get out.

EXT. GROCERY STORE.  DAY.

BONNIE sees CLYDE and the BUTCHER holding his legs.  She is

terrified.  CLYDE drags him out on the street.  The BUTCHER

won't let go.  CLYDE, in real panic, aims the gun at his

head and fires.  Click.  Out of bullets.  In blind fury, he

pistol-whips the BUTCHER's head with two terrific swipes.

Finally the BUTCHER lets go.  Hysterical, CLYDE jumps away

and leaps into the car on the other side.  BONNIE still at

the wheel.

They drive-off at top speed.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

CLYDE is shaken.  He speaks haltingly, panting; trying to

get control of himself.

EXT. SPEEDING CAR.  DAY.

The car is speeding down an open road.  Suddenly it begins

to buck and cough.  There is something wrong with the motor.

CLOSE SHOT.  C.W. MOSS.  EXT. FILLING STATION.

His cherubic cheeks are puffed up as he blows into the fuel

lines of CLYDE's car.  There is a distinctly flat sound.

Reaction: CLYDE and BONNIE.  CLYDE stands by the hood.

BONNIE remains seated in the car.  CLYDE is covered with

sweat and grease--clearly he has gotten in his licks on the

engine without success.  Neither he nor BONNIE seems

impressed by the noise C.W. is making.

Another angle.  C.W.--as he screws back the fuel line and

moves between BONNIE and CLYDE to the ignition, turning the

engine over.  It purrs beautifully.  CLYDE is astonished.

C.W. now stands between BONNIE and CLYDE.

CLYDE still can't get over it.

C.W. belches.  He is embarrassed before BONNIE.

CLYDE nods vigorously, looking across C.W.'s back to BONNIE.

BONNIE gets the message.

C.W. jerks his hand off it as if he touched a hot stove.

C.W. walks away from the car.  Camera remains where it was.

We see him walk inside the gas station office, open the cash

drawer, close it and come out.  He emerges with a fistful of

money.  He walks over to BONNIE's window, sticks his hand

inside and drops the money on her lap.  We see the bills

flutter down.  Not a word is spoken.  BONNIE moves over into

the middle.  C.W. opens the door and gets in behind the

wheel.  For a moment we see them all sitting there, each

smiling their little smile.  CLYDE starts to hum a hillbilly

tune quietly.  The sound track picks it up (banjo and

violin, etc.) and as the music swells, they drive off down

the road.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM.  DAY.

A small room with a bed.  On it, covered by a sheet which

humps like a mountain over his enormous stomach, is the

BUTCHER.  His head is propped up on a pillow and he sips a

liquid through a bent glass straw.  Camera is on the left

side of the head of the bed, seeing the BUTCHER in a three-

quarter profile.  On the opposite side of the bed stands a

uniformed patrolman who is in the act of flashing mug-shot

photos for the BUTCHER to identify his assailant.  The

lawman holds a stack of them in front of them, swiftly

changing the cards like a grade-school teacher with her

flash cards.  At each picture, the BUTCHER grunts negatively

and goes on sipping from his glass straw.  One picture, two,

three go by.  The fourth picture is a mug shot of CLYDE.

Again the BUTCHER grunts 'no,' without hesitation.  As the

next picture comes into view, we

EXT. MOTEL.  NIGHT.

--on a painted wooden sign, lit by one attached light, which

reads: "MOTOR COURT".

INT. ROOM IN MOTOR COURT.  NIGHT.

--in darkness.  Camera is close on BONNIE.  She is awake and

restless.  O.S. comes the measured snoring that we will

think comes from CLYDE.  BONNIE raises up and kneels over

Clyde.  She needs him.  Clyde seems to snore on.  Camera

drops between them and we see that the snoring actually

comes from C.W.  BONNIE drops back on her pillow.  We cut

close on CLYDE.  He is awake.

INT. CAFE.  DAY.

BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. seated in a booth in a cafe.  The

Waitress brings the food and serves everybody.  We see C.W.

With great concentration, as he does everything by relating

to the immediate action he happens to be involved with, he

takes the sugar shaker and begins methodically sprinkling

sugar over all his food.  He sugars the meat, the beans, and

the beets.  BONNIE and CLYDE watch this performance with

first, amazement and second, disgust.  They can't believe

what they see.

With a resigned expression, BONNIE turns away and begins to

eat.  Suddenly a look of consternation crosses C.W.'s face.

He gets up and goes down to the counter on the other end of

the restaurant, out of our vision, apparently planning to

put mayonnaise over the sugar.  The minute he is out of

earshot, BONNIE gets CLYDE's attention.

CLYDE seems not to have heard the question.  He takes up the

sugar shaker and spreads a thin field of sugar on the dark

table surface.  He will sketch his plan in the sugar.

The harshness of his tone concerns him and he recovers with

a smile.

C.W. comes back with the mayonnaise; looks at the table.

Three shot.

EXT. SMALL KANSAS TOWN.

The car driving into a small Kansas town.  It is Saturday

afternoon, sunny.  The streets are filled with people, cars,

wagons.  C.W.

is driving, BONNIE is in front with him, CLYDE is in the

back.  C.W. looks scared to death at the idea of robbing a

bank.  The car pulls up in front of the bank, double-parked.

BONNIE and CLYDE get out.

EXT. CAR.  DAY.

BONNIE and CLYDE enter bank.

INT. BANK #2.  DAY.

Cut to the interior of the bank.  BONNIE and CLYDE come in,

assume the class positions--she at the door where she can

cover the bank, CLYDE at the first teller's cage.

This time everyone in the bank hears it.  The people gasp

and pull back.  CLYDE slowly edges toward the door and prods

BONNIE forward.  She carries a paper sack.  CLYDE motions

her to go from cage to cage and get all of the money.

BONNIE begins doing so, while CLYDE keeps his gun trained on

everybody.  We see BONNIE get the money from the first

teller, the second teller, then...

EXT. SMALL TOWN STREET.  DAY.

A car parked in a tight spot has just pulled out.

Close-up C.W.  Day--who suddenly looks delighted to see a

parking space.

EXT. CAR - STREET.  DAY.

Immediately he methodically begins to back in.  It's a tight

spot and he has to cut the wheel, pull forward, cut some

more, pull back and so on.  The scene, for the audience,

should be nervous and funny.

INT. BANK #2.  DAY.

Inside the bank, BONNIE and CLYDE have filled the sack.

They run out the door, the camera tracks with them.

EXT. SMALL TOWN STREET.  DAY.

They run for where the car was, but it isn't there.  Then

they see C.W. has parked it.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

C.W. suddenly realizes what a stupid thing he's done.

EXT. CAR.  STREET.  DAY.

C.W. tries to shoot out of the parking spot, but he can't.

He has to go through the business of backing up, cutting the

wheel and all of it.  The scene is one of pure pandemonium

and chaos.

INT. CAR.

EXT. CAR.  DAY.

A policeman arrives and begins firing at car.  C.W. gets the

car halfway out of the spot, scraping fenders in the process,

and the car is almost out when suddenly a face looms up at

the window--a dignified, white-haired, celluloid-collared

man, obviously a bank official who has leaped onto the

running board.  His screaming can barely by distinguished

from all the noise.

CLYDE fires through the window.

Close-up (special effects).  The face of the man explodes in

blood.  Then he drops out of sight.

EXT. CAR.  DAY.

The car shoots off down the road, doing ninety.  Police are

firing at the escaping car; BONNIE and CLYDE are shooting

out the back window; C.W. is almost having a nervous

breakdown at the wheel.

EXT. STREET.  A MOVIE HOUSE.  DAY.

A police car that had been chasing CLYDE and BONNIE's car

comes down the street.  It is obvious that the cops have

lost them.  They are searching the street for a sign of

CLYDE's car.  They pass a movie house whose marquee reads:

"GOLDDIGGERS OF 1933."  They slow for a moment, decide that

is not a probable place to look.  They drive off.

INT. MOVIE HOUSE.  WIDE ACROSS AUDIENCE AT SCREEN.

The opening musical sequence of "Golddiggers" is on the

screen.  Ginger Rogers sings "We're In The Money."  Among

the audience we cannot make out our three people.  It is a

small audience and thinly dispersed.

Tight shot at audience.  Camera pans the audience while on

the track we hear the music of the song.  First of our group

who becomes visible is C.W.  He is staring at the screen and

eating bites from a candy bar in each hand.  Camera pans

further and we see that CLYDE is in the row behind C.W. and

a few seats to one side.  CLYDE is nervous and keeps watching

the entrance doors.  He is in a rage.  He shifts in his seat.

Shot from behind CLYDE.  Shooting toward screen.

C.W. turns to CLYDE and nods agreement.  This infuriates

CLYDE even more.  He slaps the back of C.W.'s head.

Angle at BONNIE.  She has been watching the movie; is now

disturbed by the noise.  She turns back to CLYDE from her

seat on the aisle.

She smiles at her joke and turns back to the screen to the

movie which she is obviously enjoying enormously.

INT. CHEAP MOTEL BATHROOM.  CLOSE-UP BONNIE.  DAY.

On the right of the screen, f.g., BONNIE stands at the sink

fixing her make-up in the mirror.  The make-up has become

more conservative.  On the left, further back, is a bathtub

and in it sits C.W.  His head and knees peek over the gray,

soapy water.  He is engaged with his usual single-minded

concentration, in washing himself, carefully scrubbing his

arms, not a thought in his head.  BONNIE finishes her make-

up and regards herself quizzically, tilting her head to look

at herself at different angles.  She is smoking a cigarette,

and really, studying herself.

Camera stays with BONNIE during all this, watching her look

at herself as she listens to C.W.'s evaluation.  She has a

narcissistic concern at the moment and as she hears him

enumerate her values, she thinks about each in turn and

decides yes, that's true.

Responding automatically, BONNIE turns and walks to a towel

rack, pulls the washcloth off and starts toward C.W. when

suddenly she stops with a smile on her face and a sudden

motion.  Teasingly, she holds the washcloth out at arm's

length.

Suddenly C.W. looks mortally embarrassed as he realizes what

that would entail.

BONNIE tries another tack.  She begins sauntering over

slowly, teasingly, still holding out the treasured washcloth.

As she moves closer to the tub, C.W. realizes that she will

be able to peer down into the tub and see him and he

frantically reaches up with one hand and yanks the washcloth

into the tub, causing a great splash.  BONNIE, somewhat the

victim of the splash, jumps back and away.  Recovering her

composure, she looks at C.W. who is slunk down in the tub

like a gross September Morn.  She has tried him and he has

failed; she realizes now that he was no choice for her; no

real man, even if he might perform sexually.  He is a lump.

This irritates her; his very presence is demeaning to

herself and CLYDE.

BONNIE realizes, with some weariness, the inevitable truth

of what he's said; thus resigned, she says patronizingly:

Pointedly, she throws her cigarette in his bath-water,

"Sssssssssss."  She turns and leaves the bathroom, slamming

the door behind her.

INT. BEDROOM.

Camera goes with her into the connecting bedroom.  CLYDE is

sitting on the edge of the bed cleaning the guns and oiling

them.  He is quiet and preoccupied and takes no note of

BONNIE's present condition.  The moment she enters, he looks

up.

BONNIE sits, a little taken off balance by his serious

manner.  But she listens quietly.

BONNIE, moved by his offer, has tears in her eyes.

BONNIE doesn't like him in this mood.  She tries to josh him

out of it.

Close-up.  CLYDE--touched deeply, realizes that this was a

lovely thing to say to him.

INT. MOTEL BEDROOM.

They kiss.  They are near the bed on which are some guns

that CLYDE has been cleaning.  The kiss moves toward real

love making.  They are on the bed and push the guns aside.

Some fall to the floor.  CLYDE breaks the embrace after it

has reached a high pitch.  He moves away from the bed toward

the window.  BONNIE follows him and embraces him from the

rear.  They are miserable.  BONNIE frees him and returns to

the bed.  She falls on it face down.  A gun presses into her

face.  CLYDE sits in the window, the light silhouettes him.

He turns his face toward the glass and rests his head on the

window pane.  BONNIE turns to him from bed.  She smiles a

comforting smile at him.  She rolls over onto her back.  The

gun is now under her head and moves it.  She sits up and

gestures to CLYDE.  He remains at the window.  She stares at

him.  She looks toward the bathroom.  She looks back at

CLYDE.  She is moved and pained for him.  She touches her

cheek with the gun and waits for him to be able to look at

her.  Finally he does.  Her look eases him and he almost

smiles.

INT. BUCK'S CAR.  DAY.

Shot of little fuzzy doll tied by a white shoestring to the

rear-view mirror of a car.  The car is moving; the doll is

bouncing up and down.  In the front seat are BUCK and

BLANCHE BARROW.  BUCK is a jovial, simple, big-hearted man.

A little chubby, given to raucous jokes, knee-slapping and

broad reactions.  He is, in many ways, the emotional opposite

of his brother.  It doesn't take much to make him happy.

BLANCHE, his wife, is the direct opposite of BONNIE.

She is a housefrau, no more and no less, not terribly

bright, not very ambitious, cuddly, simpering, madly in love

with BUCK and desirous of keeping their lives on the straight

and narrow.  As the scene begins we hear and then see BUCK,

driving, singing "The Great Speckled Bird."  BLANCHE is

sitting next to him looking at a movie magazine, appearing

fairly miserable.

EXT. CABIN.  THE FRONT OF THE MOTEL.  DAY.

BUCK's car drives up to the cabin, honking the horn wildly.

The door of the cabin opens and CLYDE comes running out.  He

is overjoyed to see his brother.  BUCK jumps out of the car,

equally delighted.  They hug each other.

They laugh happily and begin sparring with each other,

faking punches and blocking punches--an old childhood ritual.

There is a great feeling of warmth between the two brothers.

CLYDE is more outgoing than we have ever seen him before.

Camera swings to car.  We see BLANCHE still sitting there,

her face obscured by the glint of sun on the windshield.

Slowly, she gets out of the car, still carrying the movie

magazine.

BUCK beams with pleasure, thinking they must like each other.

BONNIE comes out of the cabin, standing on the steps.  The

screen door slams behind her.

Close-up.  BONNIE.  Day--expressionless, looking it all over.

EXT. CABIN.

BUCK and CLYDE notice nothing of this.  BUCK bounds over to

BONNIE, all jollity.

There is an awkward pause.  Suddenly the screen door opens

and C.W. comes out, dressed in his long underwear.  BLANCHE

can hardly stand it.

He pumps BUCK's hand vigorously and then goes to BLANCHE.

With his characteristic one-track intensity, he decides to

act just as friendly as he can with BLANCHE, ignoring the

fact that he's standing there in his underwear.  BLANCHE,

however, is not ignoring it.

BLANCHE is starting to edge over to BUCK in sheer panic at

this strange, young man in his BVD's but C.W. takes no

notice of it.

BLANCHE finally grabs BUCK's arm.  BONNIE watches it all,

smirking.

BUCK goes to his car and gets a folding Brownie camera.

BUCK and CLYDE and C.W. laugh heartily.  C.W. goes into the

cabin.  BUCK pushes BLANCHE and CLYDE together, posing them

for a picture.

BONNIE watches BLANCHE's behavior with hardly-veiled disgust.

BUCK snaps the picture as BLANCHE is just about to move out

of it.

BUCK laughs and goes to BONNIE, takes her by the arm and

moves her next to CLYDE and BLANCHE.  He lines them up,

steps back and takes their picture.  CLYDE is the only one

smiling.

BUCK does.

He puts his arm around BLANCHE.  CLYDE takes the picture.

BONNIE grins at him and responds with amused arrogance.

CLYDE snaps the picture.  Everyone but BLANCHE laughs.  C.W.

comes out dressed.

INT. CABIN.  DAY.

They walk into the cabin.  Camera goes with them.  Bedroom

is dark, shades pulled down.  There is an aura of boys'

clubhouse secret camaraderie in the following scene:

There is now a long pause--a lull in the conversation, as if

they asked each other all the questions and are now out of

things to say.  It is too much for BUCK, the natural enemy

of silence, who suddenly claps his hands together and bursts

out animatedly:

EXT. ROAD.  DAY.

We see the two cars, one behind the other, driving down a

main road.

INT. FIRST CAR.  DAY.

CLYDE is driving.  BUCK sits next to him.  No one else is in

the car.

CLYDE and BUCK explode in laughter.

INT. SECOND CAR.  DAY.

At the top of the laugh, cut to the int. of the second car,

riding right in back of them.  The atmosphere is completely

unlike the cozy and jolly scene preceding.  We have dead

silence.  BONNIE is driving, smoking a cigarette, grim.

BLANCHE--seated as far away as she can get from BONNIE

without falling out of the car--makes a face at the cigarette

smoke, rolls down the window for air.  C.W.'s in the back

seat, just staring.

EXT. GARAGE APARTMENT.  DAY.

A residential street in Joplin, Missouri, showing a garage

apartment above a double garage.  Camera sees BUCK talking

to a dapper gent with keys in his hand.  BUCK pays him.  The

man tips his hat and walks off.  BUCK gestures and Clyde

drives a car into the driveway.  C.W. follows, driving

BUCK's car with BLANCHE.  CLYDE stops beside BUCK.  BUCK

leans into CLYDE's car and says:

CLYDE calls back to C.W. in the following car.

BLANCHE giggles.  The two cars pull up before the garage and

the people start to descend.

INT. GARAGE APARTMENT.  DAY.

A winded BUCK enters and puts down BLANCHE.  As others

behind him carry in their things and disperse throughout

apartment.

He goes to the phone.

INT. LIVING ROOM.  DAY.

Open on BONNIE and CLYDE.  He is cleaning guns.  She is

watching something off screen.  We hear a clicking sound.

A look of disgust crosses BONNIE's face.  CLYDE, who has

been watching her, smiles.  The clicking sound increases

suddenly.

BLANCHE whoops.  Camera cuts to see that BUCK and C.W. are

playing checkers and BUCK has just beaten him.

He starts to set up the game again.

She ruffles his hair again.

Camera cuts to BONNIE, watching with disgust.  Then slowly,

a wicked little smile edges across her face.  She watches

for a moment more, then she rises and with the most ingenuous

look she can muster up, beckons to CLYDE to follow her into

the bedroom.  A little puzzled, CLYDE follows.

INT. BEDROOM.

BONNIE closes the door and immediately begins fussing with

CLYDE's hair, doing a scathing imitation of BLANCHE.  Though

her miming expresses her irritation at being closeted with

the Barrow menage, it is also a peach doing an imitation of

a lemon--and it is disarmingly sensual... Indeed the mimicry

allows BONNIE to be physically freer with CLYDE, and allows

CLYDE to respond without anxiety, without self-consciousness.

We should have the distinct--if momentary--feeling that

CLYDE could suddenly make it with BONNIE.

CLYDE laughs, and BONNIE tugs at the shirt--she kneels on

the bed over CLYDE, who quite easily drapes across it.

She's letting her hair fall loose, its golden ends brushing

up and down CLYDE's body.

CLYDE has his arm around BONNIE, and she's almost draped

across him--but in the direction of the length of the bed,

so their bodies almost form a crooked cross.  She digs an

elbow into his stomach.

Suddenly BONNIE straightens up to a kneeling position again,

and cocks her head.  When she speaks now it is with a simple

plaintiveness.

CLYDE looks up to BONNIE, affectionately.  He runs his hand

carelessly down her body.

Suddenly there is a ring at the door.  BONNIE and CLYDE

freeze.

INT. LIVING ROOM.

BONNIE and CLYDE run out into the living room, camera going

with them.

BONNIE goes down the stairs and reaches the front door.

EXT. GARAGE APARTMENT.

She opens the door.  A young man is there with the two big

sacks of groceries.

BONNIE pays him and goes to take the bags from him.

She takes the heavy bags and hefts them up and turns and

walks up the stairs.  They are obviously very heavy for her.

Closeup the delivery boy's face, looking puzzled at this

behavior.  BONNIE reaches the top steps, and voices are heard.

Close-up.  The DELIVERY BOY.  A look of suspicion comes

across his face.

INT. GARAGE APARTMENT.

Close-up of BONNIE--seated in the living room.

As she reads, the camera pans around the room picking out

everyone's reaction.  CLYDE is looking and listening

seriously.  BUCK is grinning.  C.W. is blank.  BLANCHE is in

the kitchen cooking.

BONNIE flashes him a look that could kill.  He shuts up fast.

She continues:

Still listening, CLYDE gets up from his chair and walks

slowly past the living room windows.  The camera angled

slightly above him, sees down the street.  We see two police

cars quietly pulling up.  One of them parks sideways in the

driveway to block escape from the garage, the other stays on

the street.  CLYDE turns and looks out the window.

As soon as CLYDE calls out, BLANCHE drops the frying pan on

the floor and begins screaming.  Camera cuts back to the

living room.  Everyone else leaps into action.  Guns begin

blazing from everywhere; we rarely see who is shooting at

whom.

EXT. GARAGE APARTMENT.  DAY.

The police, down the stairs into the garage--we follow them

with a hand-held camera tracking rapidly.

EXT. STREET.  DAY.

BLANCHE, however, in utter panic, just runs right out the

front door, and begins running down the quiet residential

street, going nowhere, anywhere.

EXT. GARAGE APARTMENT.  DAY.

BUCK, crouching, shooting with one hand, gets the garage

door open.  A policeman fires.  BUCK fires back and the cop

falls dead in the street.  BUCK, firing, dashes to the

police car blocking their escape and releases the hand brake.

CLYDE, BONNIE and C.W. leap into their car, gun the motor,

still shooting madly.  Two more police fall dead or wounded.

One policeman is hurled through a fence by the blast of a

sawed-off shotgun.  BUCK jumps into the car with the others.

They now begin to bump the police car with their car.  The

police car picks up speed as they push it and it tears into

the street right at the group of firing police.  The gang's

car turns into the street toward the running BLANCHE.

BONNIE and CLYDE are in front; BUCK and C.W. in the back

seat firing back at police.  The car pulls alongside the

wildly running BLANCHE; the back door is flung open and in

almost the style of a cartoon, two hands reach out and lift

her off her feet and pull her into the car.  They speed away.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

The inside of the car, still speeding.  BLANCHE is hysterical.

C.W. is still firing out the window.  The pursuing police

car's driver is shot and the car crashes into a tree.  The

gang is not being pursued now, but CLYDE is driving at 90.

BLANCHE is moaning and crying.  BONNIE, in front, turns

around furiously.

BONNIE is affronted.  BLANCHE continues sobbing.

Without a word, CLYDE stops the car.

EXT. ROADSIDE.  DAY.

BONNIE and CLYDE get out and walk fifteen feet away from the

car.  Both are irritated and touchy.  Camera follows them.

This hits home with BONNIE.  He has said the unforgivable.

CLYDE stiffens.  The two of them stand silent and tense,

almost quivering with anger.  They have stripped each other

raw.  CLYDE turns and looks back at the car.  Everyone is

waiting, watching them.  He breathes a deep sigh, like a man

counting to 10 to hold his temper.

He can't finish.

Close.  BONNIE.  She drops her head into her hand for a

moment, comes up a little more relaxed.  She looks at CLYDE

and her eyes reflect the realization of the pain she has

inflicted on him.  She softens.

He turns and begins walking back to the car.  BONNIE walks

alongside him.  On the few steps back, she regains all her

dignity and acts aloof from the others waiting for her.  She

reaches the car.  CLYDE opens her door for her and she gets

in like a great lady.  He walks around to his side, gets in,

and they drive off.

WIDE SHOT.  EXT. CAR.  DAY.

A very wide shot.  We see CLYDE's car driving along a wooded

road.  For a moment that is all we see, then we should

become aware that far in the distance another car is

following CLYDE's.

Close. Rural mail box.  On the opposite side of the road,

CLYDE's car swings across the road and CLYDE, who is driving,

snatches a newspaper which protrudes from the box and hands

it into the car.  They drive out of the shot.  Camera holds

and soon the following car enters the shot.  The man driving

is a Texas ranger.  He drives slowly.  He drives out of the

shot.

INT. CLYDE'S CAR.

BUCK is reading from the paper.

We notice CLYDE is wincing.

CLYDE looks relieved.

EXT. WOODED AREA.  DAY.

He pulls the car to a stop, gets out and goes off into the

woods.  We watch him vanish behind the trees.

INT. CAR.

BUCK still scanning the newspaper.

Everybody laughs.  As BUCK continues to read, his voice

remaining on the soundtrack.

EXT. CAR.

The camera goes outside the car and pulls back, way back, to

reveal a police car quietly driving up behind the car.  The

car stops a good distance away and one man gets out, the

only occupant of the car.  He is tall, dressed in the

uniform of the Texas Ranger.  He draws his gun and slowly

approaches the car from the rear.  On the soundtrack BUCK's

voice continues; as we see all this taking place.

In the meantime, on screen, the lawman is slowly approaching

the back of the car.  Suddenly, cut to shot of CLYDE coming

out of the woods, behind the lawman.  His gun is tucked in

his pants.  In a second, he sees what is happening.

BUCK's voice is continuing:

CLYDE whips out his gun.  The following scene is played

exactly like a classic fast-draw in an heroic Western.

BRYCE spins around.  Both men fire instanteously, but CLYDE

has the draw on him, and the aim.  The gun goes flying from

the SHERIFF's hand.  A really razzle-dazzle display of

grandstand marksmanship from Clyde.

Immediately the gang leaps from the car and surrounds the

man, guns drawn.

The gang grabs the man and takes his handcuffs from his belt.

CLYDE makes him lean on the car's hood, arms extended, legs

spread, while he frisks him.  In general, everyone is

excited over the capture.  BONNIE takes the sheriff's gun

and delicately places it on the radiator grill like an

object d'art.

Rev. angle across hood--so BRYCE's face, not visible to

CLYDE or anyone else behind him, is in foreground.  His

gnarled, powerful hands tremble slightly on the hood, as tho

they might crinkle the metal like so much tissue paper.  His

eyes stare toward camera relentlessly, unblinking, but

without passion.  They are shark's eyes.  They have witnessed

much carnage, devoured it, and are still wide open for more.

CLYDE has been going thru the man's  credentials.  Not so

pleasantly:

CLYDE claps BRYCE's hands behind his back, handcuffs him,

spins him around.

BRYCE flinches involuntarily.  BUCK suddenly grows wary at

CLYDE's mood.  CLYDE leans into BRYCE, looking up.

He suddenly hefts BRYCE's huge bulk onto the fender.

BLANCHE looks very uncomfortable.  She starts to say

something, but BUCK intervenes.

A tense moment.  CLYDE can't think of anything right away.

BONNIE shoots C.W. an angry glance--it's just what the gang

doesn't want.

Reaction--BONNIE carefully gauging the moment to intervene.

CLYDE's not sure he's heard right.  Neither is C.W.

BRYCE is obviously not pleased with this turn of events.

Following dialogue is overlapped, ad-libbed, etc.  A sense

of mounting glee at the kind of vengeance they are going to

exact.

New angle.  BUCK is fiddling with the camera, setting up the

shot with CLYDE.  BUCK's following speech should be heard,

b.g., to CLYDE's speech below it.

CLYDE grandly puts an arm on BRYCE's shoulder, BONNIE,

looking up admiringly from the other side.  BUCK takes the

picture.  BONNIE immediately hops onto the hood, next to

BRYCE.

She coyly loosens his tie, tousles his hair, and plants a

big kiss on him while still ogling camera.

Quite suddenly BRYCE, whose simmering intensity we should be

more sensitive to than the gang is, spits on Bonnie.  BONNIE

half-screams in disgust, but CLYDE is on top of BRYCE in a

flash, half-strangling on his own fury.  He pulls BRYCE off

the fender by the handcuffs, spinning him around crazily

like a lasso.  BRYCE is literally ricocheted off the car by

the force, and, with CLYDE hanging on by the cuffs, plummets

down the embankment to the sandy beach below, both men

falling, spinning.  BRYCE rises shakily.  He tries to walk

away.  CLYDE grabs him again by the handcuffs and hurls him

out into the water.  BRYCE smacks into a tree stump poking

out of the shallows and goes down.  CLYDE is on top of him.

Meanwhile, BUCK has rushed down into the water, tries to

pull CLYDE off BRYCE.

BRYCE reaches the surface and CLYDE tries to throw him into

deeper water.  He hitches BRYCE over a moldy skiff, knocking

aside one of the oars.  BUCK upends BRYCE into the skiff and

kicks it spinning.  CLYDE picks up an oar and hurls it like

a boomerang, ass over end at the skiff.  It kicks up a spray.

Reaction.  CLYDE waist deep, breathing heavily.

BRYCE, battered and handcuffed, stares back with mindless

malice from the lazily spinning skiff to the hysterical

spectre of CLYDE, screaming his madness across the water.

INT. BANK.

Inside the bank.  In contrast to the previous inept bank

robbery scene, this one goes admirably well, the gang

performing slickly and without a hitch.  As they enter,

dripping wet, CLYDE makes a general announcement to everyone

to the bank.

CLYDE covers the door.  BONNIE and BUCK go to the tellers'

cages and get money.  BUCK goes inside, emptying out the

cash drawers.  Cut to BONNIE filling the sack.

Cut to a close-up of a burglar alarm button.  Slowly a hand

crawls up the wall and a finger slowly moves to push the

button.  When the finger is about one inch away, suddenly a

gun appears in the frame and gently taps the hand away.  The

camera pulls back to reveal BUCK smiling at a lady teller.

Cut to CLYDE standing near the door, training his guns on

the entire bank.  A farmer stands a few feet away, some

bills clutched in his hand.

Across the floor, the bank guard in the corner takes

advantage of CLYDE's distraction to go for his gun.  CLYDE

spots it and fires a shot that just knocks the bank guard's

hat off without harming him.

They finish robbing the bank.  They start to exit.  Near the

door stands a guard with his hands raised.  He wears sun

glasses of the period.  As they leave BUCK snatches the sun

glasses from the guard's head.

EXT. BANK.  DAY.

The gang runs wildly into the street where the car waits,

motor running.  As they leap into car, BUCK throws the sun

glasses into BLANCHE's lap.

They zoom off.  Shots are heard.  BONNIE, BUCK and CLYDE

begin firing at the bank guards who are pursuing them.  The

guards fire back.

Close-up.  BLANCHE sitting in the back seat with her fingers

stuck tightly in her ears, eyes shut, trying to overcome her

panic.  A funny image, but one that also awakens pity.  The

next sequence is carried out in cross-cutting.

The street in front of the bank.  Police car pulls up and

the excited crowd gestures in the direction of the departed

gang.  The siren starts.

INT. GANG CAR.  DAY.

The siren heard now in the far distance.

INT. BANK.

The gang has left a legacy of celebrity behind.  We see the

bank guard whose hat was shot off being interviewed by a

reporter.  He is seated in a chair, his shirt open at the

collar and a woman teller is fanning him.

A photographer steps in.

The bank guard hurriedly buttons up his collar and smiles as

the flashbulb goes off.

EXT. GANG CAR.

Still speeding along, the siren more distant.

INT. BANK.

The bank president and a policeman are posing for that

classic picture where both stand flanking a bullet hole in

the wall and point proudly at it.  The flashbulb goes off.

INT. POLICE CAR.

Two men in police uniforms following BONNIE and CLYDE.

INT. BANK.

FARMER is describing BONNIE and CLYDE to passersby who dote

on him as though he'd just had contact with a portion of the

true cross.  FARMER is aware of his position.

INT. GANG'S CAR.

Car slows up perceptibly as CLYDE says:

INT. POLICE CAR.

EXT. CAR.

Now the gang's car is seen traveling down a long, narrow

country road surrounded by cornfields.

EXT. ROADSIDE BY WOODS.  DAY.

They get out, taking the various bags of money with them,

and dump the lot on the hood.  There is not an impressive

amount of money.

He begins dealing and splitting the money out on the hood of

the car, as they gather around.

BUCK and BLANCHE stand watching.  BLANCHE looks fretful.

She nudges BUCK and whispers to him.

BUCK whispers something back to her.  Meanwhile, CLYDE's

counting still goes on.

BUCK is clearly embarrassed.

Everyone reacts with stunned amazement at BLANCHE's nerve in

wanting to get her cut.

BLANCHE sees she has to rise to her own defense, and she

rises to the occasion with spirit and verve.

Close.  BUCK.  Day--looking at CLYDE, his face full of weak

smiles and embarrassment at his wife.

BONNIE is livid but says nothing.  CLYDE, the leader has

decided.  C.W. looks indignant, like a hog who's just been

given a bath.  CLYDE begins counting all over again in near

silence.

Everyone now laughs, but BLANCHE.  CLYDE continues counting.

BONNIE turns and ambles away from the car.  After a moment

CLYDE stops counting and moves after her.  He's prepared for

a fight, stands behind BONNIE's arched back trying to gauge

the degree of hostility there.

No answer.

He waits expectantly.

BONNIE looks plaintively to CLYDE.

CLYDE cannot really answer.  Suddenly C.W. starts yelling:

CLYDE flinches at the sound.  C.W. comes bounding over, as

rude an assault on their sensibilities as he can be.

He reaches down under the pan of the car and scoops a gooey

handful of slick black oil which he holds before their faces.

CLYDE nods slowly.  He looks back to BONNIE.  He sees.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET.

A residential neighborhood on a suburban street.  A rather

well-to-do neighborhood.  The camera is up on a porch of a

white frame house, looking toward the street.  On the porch,

sitting in the swing in the left f.g. are a MAN and a WOMAN.

She is about twenty-nine, he is about thirty-six.  He is

sitting with his back to us, embracing the WOMAN.  They are

spooning, making low, loving murmurs.

We see in the distance two cars parked in front of the house.

His and hers.  Suddenly we see another car drive up (BONNIE

and CLYDE) and somebody gets out.  Then the whole gang gets

out, ditches the one car and gets in one of the parked cars.

All the while the couple on the porch is busy spooning.  The

car begins to roll slowly into the street.  The WOMAN notices.

The MAN and WOMAN run down the front steps and front walk to

the second car.  They jump in and take off, giving chase.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

The WOMAN is driving (it's her car).  The MAN is furious.

They continue driving, furious, the man cursing and muttering.

We see through their windshield the other car way in the

distance.

They are by now on a narrow dirt road and the WOMAN has to

execute a U-turn.  It takes her about seven cuts to turn the

car around in the narrow space.  They start back to town.

INT. BONNIE AND CLYDE'S CAR.

BUCK looks out the rear window.

Close-up.  CLYDE grinning mischievously.

BUCK and C.W. laugh appreciatively at the reversal.  CLYDE

turns the car around.  He performs the U-turn in the same

narrow space in one, swift, smooth, beautiful turn.

INT. THE OTHER CAR.

VELMA looks in the rear view mirror and sees that now she is

being chased.

Close-up.  Accelerator.  VELMA jams it down to the floor.

The car speeds.

EXT. ROAD.  THE CHASE.  DAY.

BONNIE and CLYDE's car gaining on them, gaining on them,

gaining on them and finally overtaking them, coming up and

ahead, forcing them to the side of the road.

Med. shot.  The MAN and WOMAN's car.  Terrified, they roll

up their windows, lock their doors and huddle together.

EXT. ROAD.

The Barrow gang piles out of their car and walks over,

having a merry time.  They surround the car and press their

faces against the window, flattening their features, making

menacing gestures at the shaking pair inside.  We see this

from the point of view of the MAN and WOMAN inside the car.

CLYDE pulls out a gun, makes as if to shoot, but he is

kidding.  They all laugh uproariously, especially BUCK who

is delighted with CLYDE's prank.  All of this we see in

pantomime from inside the trapped car.

EXT. CAR.

They come out, hands held high, shaking with fear.  They

have practically turned to jelly.

INT. OTHER CAR.  DAY.

They get in and the gang gets in.  Seven people are now

jammed inside.  CLYDE drives, BONNIE next to him, C.W. next

to her.  In back, BLANCHE, then EUGENE with VELMA (of

necessity) sitting on his lap, and then BUCK.  As will be

seen, the reason the Barrows have kidnapped the couple is

simply that they wanted company.  Living as they do, seeing

only each other day after day, they long for diversion and

new faces.  So the atmosphere in the car will shortly change

to one of friendliness and jollity, and it will get

progressively more so in the series of cuts which advance

the time.  As the car starts up at the beginning, however,

the MAN and WOMAN are terrified.

The MAN and WOMAN almost faint from fear; clutch at each

other.  The gang all laugh at this.  VELMA and EUGENE begin

to realize that they are not going to get hurt and that the

Barrows are friendly to them.

The MAN and the WOMAN answer simultaneously with what they

think is the right thing to say under the circumstances.

They glare at each other.

EUGENE and VELMA blush, get shy for a second.  BONNIE smiles.

Everyone chuckles heartily.

INT. CAR.  LATER.

--still driving, same positions, but some time has elapsed.

The atmosphere is now completely convivial and the captives

are enjoying their new friends.  As the scene starts, BUCK

is finishing his joke.

The couple laughs with great amusement, but everyone else in

the car doesn't laugh--this is the tenth time they've heard

the joke.

INT. OF CAR.

--getting on toward evening.  All are thoroughly relaxes and

chatting.

A sudden look of surprise registers on EUGENE's face.

INT. OF CAR.  NIGHT.

It is now night.  Everyone inside the car is eating.

Apparently they stopped somewhere along the way for food.

In the crowded interior, it is like a party--food is being

passed back and forth, laughter and gaiety, increasing

warmth between the couple and the Barrows.  The car has

become a little society on wheels, dashing through the black

night down the highway.  Inside there is a small world of

happiness and fun.

BUCK is unpacking the food and passing sandwiches and drinks

around the car.

Close-up.  C.W. who has already taken a bite of the other one.

He extends the bitten burger out to EUGENE.

Full shot.

CLYDE laughs at this.

That idea strikes everyone as being very amusing.

Suddenly everyone freezes.  A shudder, as if the cold hand

of death had suddenly touched the occupants of the car.  The

atmosphere changes to cold, deadly, fearful silence in

exactly one second.  It is a premonition of death for the

Barrows, and they react accordingly, BONNIE especially.

Close-up.  BONNIE.

EXT. ROAD.  NIGHT.

The car brakes to a sudden stop.  The rear down is opened,

the MAN and WOMAN flung out into the darkness.  The car

drives off into the lonely night.

From this point on, the audience should realize that death

is inevitable for the Barrow gang, that it follows them

always, that it waits anywhere.  It is no longer a question

of whether death will come, but when it will.

EXT. WOODS.  MORNING.

Moving with CLYDE he tears through the brush, snagging his

clothes, calling BONNIE's name.  CLYDE's search is so

desperate here that for a moment we might think he is

fleeing from something rather than looking for something.

In a moment he emerges onto the road.  The car, with C.W.

driving, and BUCK and BLANCHE beside him, is patrolling

slowly up ahead of him.

CLYDE spots it and runs toward it.  Hold on this angle until

he catches up with it and leaps onto the running board.

Moving shot.  Car.  Morning.  CLYDE, now on the running

board, his head poked into the car, his face apple red and

sweating.

BUCK is shocked at his brother's desperation, but makes no

overt comment on it.

EXT. CAR.  MOVING SHOT.  DAY.

CLYDE gets the point.  For the very first time we see CLYDe,

the leader, helpless as he hangs onto the running board.

CLYDE looks helplessly at his brother, then drops off the

running board and continues on foot, running along, scanning

the fields--the car keeping up beside him as he runs and we

truck before both car and CLYDE.

Angle on car through windshield.  Reaction shot.  Day.  BUCK

turning to BLANCHE, shrugging his shoulders, speechless.

Reverse angle through the windshield.  Day--at CLYDE, who

has suddenly seen something begins gesticulating wildly,

almost--from car's POV, a little comically.

He starts running off into a cornfield.

Another angle--picking up CLYDE as he kicks his way into the

cornfield, knees pumping high, knocking down the stalks.  He

stops and picks up the stocking he had spotted, takes it and

moves on.

Still another angle as CLYDE has picked up a freshly beaten

trail through the cornfield.  He picks up one of BONNIE's

scarves, now.  As he runs on, he clears a knoll and BONNIE,

her yellow hair unmistakable even at this distance, comes

into view.  She's far off in the cornfield, stalking off,

looking neither to right nor left, carrying a brown paper

sack that has split, from which she has occasionally lost

clothing.  CLYDE screams, "BONNIE." She apparently doesn't

hear.

Angle on cornfield.  Day.  As CLYDE gets closer.  BONNIE

herself suddenly breaks into flight, the paper bag splitting

completely, the remaining clothes spilling out.  There is a

real chase where they each try to get the advantage.  CLYDE

is so exhausted from his run that he has real trouble

cornering her as they maneuver up and down the rows of corn.

Finally CLYDE catches up.

Extreme close-up.  BONNIE & CLYDE.  Day.  As they tumble

into the stalks of corn, mowing them down.

BONNIE doesn't answer.

Up angle.  POV CLYDE.  As he's momentarily distracted by

BUCK's laughter as he's in the cornfield picking up BONNIE's

clothing.  CLYDE waves an impatient it's all-right-wave.  He

turns back to BONNIE who he still holds tightly.

BONNIE hesitates, beginning to feel a little foolish now.

Two shot.  BONNIE and CLYDE.  Day.

EXT. SIDE OF A ROAD.  VERY LONG SHOT.  DAY.

--of three or four cars parked on the side of a road in

Texas.  A light rain is falling.  There are a lot of people

gathered around, but the sound is an indistinct mixture of

talk, laughter, etc.

There follows a quick montage of cuts which isolate specific

moments in the family reunion, thereby implying the entire

tone of the proceedings.  The sense of family pervades.

Montage.  BONNIE and MOTHER.  BONNIE's mother, an old woman,

grabs her and hugs her and cries.

Montage.  BONNIE, CLYDE, MAN.  A man, an uncle perhaps,

stands with BONNIE and CLYDE, arms around them both, hugging

them to his sides tightly.

Montage.  BONNIE and sister.  BONNIE's sister hands them a

scrapbook of clippings.

CLYDE, BONNIE, BUCK and BLANCHE all look at the scrapbook.

We see a page of it, showing newspaper articles with the

photographs the gang took back at the motel.

Montage.  BONNIE, CLYDE, MAN.  BONNIE and CLYDE are posing

for a comic snapshot.  A silly looking male relative is

posing, pointing a gun at them.  They have their hands in

the air and are grinning broadly.  (The effect should be

funny and simultaneously frightening.)

Montage BUCK, SMALL BOY.  BUCK is sitting with a little

four-year-old on his knee, bouncing him up and down and

singing.  Both are having a fine time.

Montage--C.W.  A hand off camera thrusts a sandwich at C.W.

He opens the bread to see what's inside it, then eats it.

Montage--BONNIE & SISTER.  BONNIE sits stock-still while her

sister gives her a permanent in the back seat of a car.  He

sister pauses, setting down the curling iron.  She strokes

BONNIE's yellow head with her hand, as though she were a

wild animal that had paused long enough to be petted.

BONNIE turns to see her sister's expression.  They embrace.

Montage--Family picnic--Favoring CLYDE, MOTHER & BONNIE.

CLYDE, in his best theatrical manner has been playing host

in the sand pile, perhaps using some sort of towel across

the arm or around the middle.  The party is beginning to

break up now as used paper plates and crumpled napkins are

blowing across the sand and the group is finishing up on

Eskimo pie.

CLYDE laughs, in fine spirits.

Reaction--BONNIE.  She doesn't.

Wide angle.  As Uncle sweeps up the laughing little Tom.

Reaction--BONNIE.  BONNIE turns with increased urgency to

her MOTHER, who, having been hefted to her feet by BONNIE's

sister, has turned to CLYDE, who gives her a big, boyish hug.

He knows he's stumbled onto the wrong thing, but he bounces

right along--it's his style.

He waits for a response, as does BONNIE.  BONNIE's MOTHER

smiles, a little abstractedly.

She trails off, looking nowhere in particular.  CLYDE takes

her reaction to mean that he's overwhelming her with his

confidence, and continues to pour it on.

BONNIE's MOTHER has undergone a funny sort of transformation

during CLYDE's speech--as if something had suddenly come

into focus before the old woman's eyes.

She hugs BONNIE who can barely respond.  We move in for a

closeup of BONNIE as her various relatives, young and old

come by to squeeze, kiss and hug her with a chirpy little

chorus of Bye, Bonnie!  Bye, Bonnie, bye, bye, bye.

EXT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL.  PLATTE CITY, IOWA.  DAY.

Hold on the outside long enough to see the unusual

structures: two little motel cabins connected by two

identical garages, an entirely symmetrical structure.

INT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL BEDROOM.  WITH BONNIE.  DAY.

--as she tries, against heavy odds, to file and trim her

nails in a corner of the room.  The odds are; CLYDE on a

uke, b.g., BUCK, and BLANCHE--gathered around C.W. who sits

in the only stuffed chair in the room.  Their o.s.

raucousness is clearly shattering to BONNIE who, at a key

moment in the scene, ends up spearing her cuticle with a

file, spurting a little board and a lot of temper.

Other angle.  CLYDE--BUCK--BLANCHE--C.W.  Day.  A naked

lightbulb (the lampshade has been removed) glares down on

C.W.'s chest--where a pair of bluebirds have been tattooed

with a rocco flourish.  BUCK and BLANCHE are vastly amused--

rather BLANCHE takes delight in BUCK's delight.

BLANCHE squeals with amusement.  BUCK takes BLANCHE's hand

and places it on the bluebirds.

Reaction BONNIE.  Day--as the file digs into her cuticle on

BLANCHE's squeal.  With barely controlled rage:

INT. MOTEL BEDROOM.  GROUP SHOT.  FAV. BONNIE.  DAY.

New angle.  Motel bedroom.  Day.

She picks up the first three objects she can find on the

dresser and hurls them--an ashtray, a Gideon Bible, and a

flower pot--at the little group.  The pot goes shattering

into the wall.  Everyone ducks.

INT. MOTEL BEDROOM.  GROUP SHOT.  DAY.

CLYDE makes a face to BONNIE pretending there's something

going on between C.W. and BLANCHE.  BONNIE tries to keep

from being amused.  C.W. moves out with BLANCHE.  BUCK rises

to go next door.

All finally exit, leaving BONNIE and CLYDE alone.

EXT. CAR AND STREET.  DUSK.

C.W. and BLANCHE go out.  We go with them.  They get in the

car and drive off.  BUCK enters his cabin.

INT. MOTEL BEDROOM.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DUSK.

CLYDE reaches her, and for a moment both stare with fanatic

intensity at each other, BONNIE trying desperately to keep a

straight face.  They are nose to nose, unblinking.  CLYDE

gives her a big raspberry, waggling his fingers in his ears

like a kid.  She laughs.

She turns away from him, wilts onto the bed.

CLYDE moves behind her, begins to massage her back.  There

is something very delicate about the way he touches her; it

suggests CLYDE's sensitivity to her mood rather than any

degree of physical intimacy.

BONNIE rolls over on her back, stares up at CLYDE, tears

splaying across her face from the move.

She has addressed this last directly to CLYDE, but there is

nothing rhetorical about it--it is a real question.  CLYDE

doesn't answer for a moment.  Then:

BONNIE clearly finds this hard to say:

It's the first time he's said it to her, and BONNIE is

overwhelmed.  She wraps her arms around CLYDE's middle, and

snuggles into him, like a child.  Neither we nor CLYDE can

see BONNIE's face now, and her voice is muffled by his chest.

CLYDE is both touched and amused by the plea.  He strokes

her head lightly.  Really meaning it.

INT. CAR.

BLANCHE, her tense and agitated self growing increasingly

more so lately, lights a fresh cigarette off the butt of the

one she has been smoking.

BLANCHE, sick of it all, drops her head in her hand with a

sigh.

C.W. looks at her, finally decides to say something that

occurs to him.

INT. FRIED CHICKEN CAFE.

The camera remains stationary in this scene, in this position.

A lunch counter sweeps down the center of the screen.  We

are at one end of the counter.  In the f.g., a DEPUTY sits

drinking coffee, absorbed in his cup.  In the b.g., at the

other end of the counter, by the Exit door, BLANCHE and C.W.

are being handed their order by the counterman.

The DEPUTY turns his head and looks over there.  C.W. opens

his jacket to reach in his pocket for money.  As he opens

his coat, his gun is clearly seen tucked in his pants.

Camera zooms in to tight close-up of gun.

Close shot.  DEPUTY--his face tense.  Sound of door closing

shut, as C.W. and BLANCHE leave.

INT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT.

On C.W.'s moonlit chest and face, tattooed bluebirds heaving

and occasionally snoring in the night.  Behind him the room

is dimly lit by flickering candles that are placed out of

sight on the floor.  The shapes in the room--the bed is

gutted and only the box mattress remains--dresser, lamp

shades, etc., are grotesque in the flickering light.  O.s.

sounds of BONNIE and CLYDE, BONNIE giggling and CLYDE

whispering something we can't quite hear.

Move across the room toward the gutted bed.  Move giggling

from the floor beneath the box mattress--for a moment it

should appear as if something perversely sexual may be going

on between BONNIE and CLYDE.

CLYDE's arm wielding a Tommy gun, clears the bed.  With the

muzzle, CLYDE knocks the swivel mirror on the dresser

overhead, bringing BONNIE and CLYDE into view.

Closer angle mirror--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night.  BONNIE lies

stiff as a statue on the white mattress, impeccably dressed

for her funeral.  Candelabras made of empty beer bottles lie

at her head and feet.  BONNIE's hands and face are powdered

and painted a waxen white.  She wears a garish silk bow in

her hair which it, for this occasion, curled like a little

girl's.

CLYDE sits up, beer bottle in one hand, Tommy gun in the

other, derby hat cocked--and just a little unsure of the

whole thing.  He takes a swig--BONNIE stops him, trying

terribly hard not to change her position.

Angle on mirror--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night.

She giggles again, more than a little gassed herself.  CLYDE

clamps a big cigar between his teeth and abruptly lies down

beside her.  CLYDE is both amused and annoyed.

She weaves her way over to the dresser, takes a swig from a

bottle there herself, checks her makeup, and returns with

the tie.  Holding against his chest to try it out she almost

falls into him.  CLYDE steadies her.

She tries to tie it for him, and clearly has trouble with

the knot.

INT. MOTEL BEDROOM--BONNIE AND CLYDE.  NIGHT.

She does, with some play-acting, exaggerated obeisance to

CLYDE's command--reaching up at the last moment like a

zombie and snatching an artificial flower from BLANCHE's hat

which still lies on the dresser.  CLYDE lies down now.  They

look into the mirror again.

This tickles CLYDE despite himself and he laughs--BONNIE

begins to sing to him--performing for both CLYDe and her own

image in the mirror--like some hoydenish vaudevillian.

During the course of the song she will rise and take CLYDE

with her who finally joins in when they tip-toe over and

begin to serenade C.W.

During this last they have been hovering over C.W.'s

twitching face, like a couple of tipsy ghouls, whisper-

singing into his ears.  C.W. finally blinks, doesn't even

bother to look at them.

Reaction--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night.  They smile, go back and

lie down.  Looking at their images:

As they approach four we should feel that somehow when they

shut their eyes, they really will die.  They shut them on

GO, and screen goes black.

EXT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL.  NIGHT.

Ranged across the lawn are six police cars, loaded with

peace officers.  Four men come out and, guns drawn, walk

cautiously over to the room on the right--BUCK and BLANCHE's.

INT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL.  BUCK'S CABIN.  NIGHT.

There is a knock on the door.  They sit bolt upright in bed.

Before BUCK can say anything, BLANCHE puts her hand over his

mouth to shut him up.

EXT. PLATTE CITY MOTEL.  NIGHT.

The four lawmen, among them the DEPUTY from the cafe, edge

their way across the lawn, past the first garage, past the

second.  Before they reach the door of BONNIE and CLYDE's

cabin, the window smashes and there are blasts of gunfire.

One cop is hit and falls, the others run back to the cars

for cover.  BONNIE and C.W. are at the window, firing

steadily.

CLYDE--running into the garage to get the car.  They must

escape.  All they can do is escape, and all they have is

that one car in the closed garage.

Outside.  Two of the lawmen fall to the ground, shot.  As

the remaining two run back for cover, we see a blinding

light rolling up in a space between the six cars.  It is an

armored truck, with mounted guns and and spotlight, advancing

toward the cabin.

Inside the armored truck.  Two men in the seat.  Sounds of

gunshots coming from everywhere, piercing light.  From

inside the truck, we suddenly see the windshield shattered

from bullets fired by BONNIE and C.W.  The driver is hit,

and he slumps over the wheel.  His body hits the horn, which

starts blasting and continues throughout the battle.  The

other man, quickly, ducks under the dashboard for protection.

Inside the garage.  CLYDE standing by the car.  He holds the

Browning Automatic.  The garage door is shaking from the

impact of bullets, shattering.  His gun already firing

(automatic clip) before he gets there.  CLYDE in a crouch

runs to the garage door, flings it up, and runs back inside

the car.  Now the door is open and he can get the car out.

One hand on the wheel, one hand shooting, he rolls the car

out onto the driveway.  The battle is raging from all sides.

EXT. STREET.

The car stops.  CLYDE keeps shooting.  The door of the cabin

flies open and BONNIE and C.W. come charging out, guns

blazing away.  C.W.  fires the Thompson sub-machine gun,

BONNIE fires two pistols with automatic clips.  They run in

a crouch, tryingto get inside the car in front of their door.

They make it.

Camera pans across the motel to the other door.  It opens,

BUCK and BLANCHE come out, holding a double bed mattress in

front of them for protection.  This makes their running

awkward--the mattress is heavy.  BLANCHE carries the front

end, BUCK the back with one hand, the other firing his gun.

They get halfway to the car and then BUCK is hit, shot in

the head.  He falls to the ground; BLANCHE and the mattress

fall too since she has lost balance.  Both are under the

mattress.

CLYDE dashes out of the car and drags BUCK into the back

seat.  BLANCHE follows, hysterical.  All guns on all sides

are still firing.  They fling themselves into the car and

from a standing start, the car starts out at 60 mph down the

driveway.  One of the lawmen stands blocking the way with a

double-barrele rifle, but the car keeps coming, about to run

him down.  He jumps out of the way and fires at the side.

The glass cracks and we see BLANCHE fling a hand to her

face, which is bloody.  A piece of glass has lodged in her

eye.  We hear her scream.  The horn is still blasting.

INT. THE CAR SWERVING MADLY.

CLYDE manages to keep it on the road.  They drive away.

EXT. STREET.

The police run back to their cars to give chase, calling out

to each other, unable to believe that the gang could possibly

have gotten away.

INT. CAR.  NIGHT.

as it is speeding down the highway.  Crazy, mad hillbilly

music on the soundtrack.  Packed inside this car right now

is more sheer human misery and horror than could be believed.

It is hell in there, hell and suffering and pain.  The car

is a complete mess.  C.W. is sobbing.  Everyone is hysterical.

BLANCHE is shrieking with pain and concern for BUCK.  BUCK

is alternating between groaning and passing out completely.

BONNIE is yelling at everybody to shut up.

Only CLYDE, driving with both hands clenched on the wheel,

is silent.  The car is doing 90.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET.  NIGHT.

The car from the outside, a half hour later.  They have

eluded the police.  They are barreling down the road at top

speed on a nice suburban street with proper homes.  It is

the middle of the night, utter silence.  CLYDE stops the

car, points to ca car in a driveway--it is a beautiful,

shiny new and expensive automobile.  C.W. runs out, runs up

the driveway, peers inside, gets in, quietly backs it down

the driveway and pulls behind the gang's bullet-riddled

getaway car.  Suddenly they both zoom off down the road

together.

INT. OF THE NEW CAR.  NIGHT.

C.W. driving alone.  He is crying, mumbling, wiping his eyes

and nose with one hand while he controls the wheel with the

other.

EXT. RING OF FIRS.  NIGHT.

A wide field in the country.  This is Dexter, Iowa.  It is

quiet.  We see, in a long shot that takes in everything,

that this is a meadow surrounded by a ring of trees, a dense

forest that circles them.  The meadow, however, is large.

The two cars drive into the middle of the field, headlights

on.  They stop and the Barrow gang gets out.  They are in

horrible shape--we can finally have a look at them.  Half-

dressed in their pajamas, bloody, dirty, in tatters.  Those

that can stagger out do so, others are carried.  A far shot

of all this.

Closer shot.  Moving closer to them, we see CLYDE and C.W.

lay BUCK down on the ground.  CLYDE begins to administer to

his wounds as best he can, mostly just wiping him off.  BUCK

is semi-conscious.  All are in a semi-daze.  BLANCHE falls

to her knees, still clutching her eyes.  She is totally

hysterical.

BONNIE walks over to the group, looking at BUCK, C.W. goes

over to her.  Two shot--BONNIE and C.W.

Camera pulls back to take in BLANCHE.

BONNIE walks over to the car and comes back with the

sunglasses BUCK had given BLANCHE.  Moving her out of the

glare, she helps BLANCHE put them on.  BONNIE now has an arm

around BLANCHE, and BLANCHE shivers into BONNIE gracefully.

BONNIE is a little repelled by BLANCHE, but comforts her out

of genuine feeling for her.

BONNIE looks silently up to CLYDE.  CLYDE is looking dumbly

down at his mangled brother.

Though BLANCHE cannot see it, CLYDE has knelt down to the

side of BUCK, taking BUCK's hand and with his other hand has

begun smoothing BUCK's hair back, away from the wound.

BLANCHE's answer to this is hysterical sobbing, burying

herself into BONNIE, mumbling half-coherent, muffled prayers

between the sobs.

With BUCK and CLYDE.

CLYDE has begun to cry a little, continues to smooth back

BUCK's hair with ritualistic regularity.

Wide angle.  Night.  Camera pulls away, way back to wide

shot of the entire field, showing the group in the center of

the darkness, lit by the headlights.

Match dissolve into early dawn, camera still on the wide

shot.  The field is lighter, though the trees still loom

blackly around it.  The two cars, one almost a shattered

wreck, the other bright and shiny and new, are parked in the

center.  The sky is light, but the trees cast a dark shadow

on the field.  The gang is just sitting around.  BLANCHE

weeping next to BUCK, C.W. sitting on the running board of a

car, staring.  BONNIE standing and smoking.  CLYDE still

with BUCK.

All is quiet.

EXT. WOODS.  DAY.

From the edge of the woods, a man in a white shirt emerges

from behind a tree.  The camera swings abruptly to get him.

He calls out to the gang.

It is a total surprise.  BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. all grab

their guns and fire several shots; they are not firing the

big guns now, but the pistols.  The man lingers there for a

moment--he looks strange, white, luminous, like an

apparition--and then he vanishes into the woods.  Silence,

long enough to make you think it was perhaps an illusion.

Then there is a volley of gunfire--a noise so large as to be

almost an impossible sound--coming from the woods, all

around, everywhere.

A ring of little white puffs of smoke emerge from the woods;

from every tree a puff of smoke.  The camera pans in a

circle.  Behind every tree is a man with a gun.  There are

at least 150 people out there--peace officers, farmers with

hunting rifles, kids with squirrel guns, everyone who wanted

to come along and catch BONNIE and CLYDE.  Their number is

so large because this time they want no possibility of the

gang making what seemed by them supernatural escapes.

From this point on, the sound of guns is unnaturally muffled

on the sound track.  We hardly hear them at all..it is like

a dream.

Without a word, all of the gang including the half-dead BUCK

making his final effort, scramble for the nearest car.  They

run, throughout this battle, crouched, like animals--their

only thought, to get away, to escape.  To fight it out would

be ludicrous.

From the moment the Barrows start in motion, there is

shooting again from the edge of the woods.  We see them

scrambling towards the car, in an extreme long shot,

surrounded by the ring of smoke.

INT. OF THE CAR.

All of them inside.  CLYDE is at the wheel.

EXT. CAR.

Med. Long shot of the car moving.  The sound track goes to

complete silence.  We see the car looking for an avenue of

escape.  It veers towards a tree, a man steps out from

behind the tree and fires, the car jerks and veers toward

another tree, again a man steps out and fires and so on.

The car performs its eccentric dance, all in utter silence

(no sound of the motor, nothing).  The film should have the

feeling of slow motion, as the car swerves and loops along

the edge of the woods.  Not once do any of the Barrows fire

back.  Another man steps out and aims.

INT. CAR.

Close-up.  CLYDE.  At the wheel-shot in the arm.  He grabs

his arm in pain, loses control of the wheel.

EXT. CAR.

--out of control (still silent).  It smashes into a tree

stump.  The picture stops, freezes for three beats.  We hold

the image of the moment of crash, with pieces of metal

crumpling and flying into the air, suspended there by the

stop-film.

INT. CAR.

Sound partly up again, but never at its realistic volume.

From inside the smashed car, we peer out the window across

the field and see the other car.  The thought strikes the

audience at the same time it strikes the gang--they must get

to that car.

Med. shot of the second car, sitting in the field, shining

in the sun.  The lawmen also realize what must be done--cut

off this escape.  Though BONNIE, CLYDE and the others are

heading toward it, they suddenly train all their fire on the

car rather than the gang.

The car fills the frame of the screen.  Bullets begin to hit

it.  It starts to quiver under the impact.  For the next

minute, we see the car die in front of our eyes.  We see the

beautiful machine fall to pieces--windows smash, tires torn

apart, body riddled.  The death of the car is as painful to

watch as the willful death of a human being.  The execution

is paced deliberately to show the ritualistic tempo of the

destruction.

EXT. WOODS.

The camera pulls back, way back and slightly above everything

to reveal the entire field.  On the left of the screen,

BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. are scrambling toward the edge of the

woods.  In the center BUCK and BLANCHE have taken cover

behind a fallen log.  In the foreground, police begin to

emerge from the woods.  The camera zooms rapidly in with

them toward BUCK.  BLANCHE is screaming.

BUCK is making a last feeble attempt.  The zoom continues

past BUCK until it comes tight on his hand, a lawman's foot

steps on his hand.  BUCK falls over.  He dies.  BLANCHE

screams.

She goes berserk.  Five men, one hardly a teen-ager, grab

her and hold her as she writhes and cries.  She is still

wearing the sunglasses.

EXT. WOODS AND STREAM.  BONNIE, CLYDE, AND C.W.  DAY.

They have reached the edge of the woods.  Camera tracks with

them as they run.  From all around come the sounds of the

posse.  The three get in through the pines and come finally

to a deep stream.  They jump in and start across, running

awkwardly in chest-deep water.  They are half way across

when the police appear on the bank behind them, shooting.

Close-up.  BONNIE.  Day--as she is struggling through the

water.  A bullet hits her in the shoulder.  We must see this

bullet clearly, we must see it go in her flesh so that we

can feel it.

Tight close-up of BONNIE's face as she screams.  It is the

first time she has been hurt, and the scream is pure animal

pain.  She cries out.

EXT. STREAM AND CORNFIELD.  DAY.

CLYDE, who has almost reached the other side, comes back and

gets her.  He drags her out of the water and into a cornfield

that starts growing on the opposite bank, C.W. helping.  He

half-carries half-runs with her into the cornfield, as the

field gets deeper and thicker.

They stop for a second.

He starts to give over the wounded BONNIE to C.W.

But CLYDE has not heard this last.  Working on pure

adrenaline now, he struggles onward.  Camera tilts up

slightly so we can see CLYDE as he essays his way toward a

farmhouse with a car in the distance.  After a few moments

he disappears and we can hear only the cracking of the

stalks as that sound too diminishes,

Full shot.  Cornfield.  Day.  Silence.

Close.  C.W. and BONNIE.  Obviously some time later.  They

both lie prostrate in the field, listening.  C.W. licks his

lips.

They wait for another long moment, picking up only the

tiniest sounds.

C.W. looks at her as if she's gone crazy.  After another

moment the corn begins to tremble, and we hear the o.s.

sound of an approaching car.

With C.W. Day--tentatively lifting his head up to clear the

corn stalks.  With him we see the car looming larger,

bearing down on us, splitting the corn stalks.  The car

finally comes to a stop a few feet in front of C.W.  BONNIE

is on her feet, and CLYDE tumbles out of the car, practically

before it's stopped, sweeping BONNIE into him.  For a moment

both are in their knees a few feet from the running board of

the car, simply holding onto each other and not moving.

INT. CAR.  ABOUT A HALF HOUR LATER.  DAY.

They have gotten away, but are still escaping.  C.W. is

driving.  He is bare-chested.  CLYDE is beside him in front,

his arm bleeding.  He falls in and out of consciousness.

BONNIE is stretched out in back.

Her shoulder has been bandaged with C.W.'s shirt.  She is

unconscious.

INT. CAR.  LATE DAY.

CLYDE comes half-awake and looks over at C.W.

EXT. ROAD WITH CAMPSITE.  THE SAME EVENING.

C.W. is driving down the road, hell for leather.  Nearing a

campsite, where there are about six Okie cars and pick-up

trucks all loaded down, with a number of poor families

seated around a campfire, cooking.  C.W. jams on the brakes.

He gets out, looking totally exhausted.

Reaction shot.  The faces of the Okies, looking at this

sudden presence in their midst.

Back to C.W.

EXT. CAMPSITE.  FULL SHOT.

One man, the leader of the group, dips a cup of water and

approaches C.W. suspiciously.  He comes close enough to make

C.W. reach out for the water, but withholds it from him.

This seems to be enough for the man, who gives him the water.

As C.W. gulps it down, the man begins to circle the car,

peering into it suspiciously.  Suddenly he starts and his

eyes open wide.

He stands there struck dumb, staring.  Those of the others

who have heard him begin to come over.  Without a word they

move quietly to the car and stare in.

INT. CAR.

BONNIE is out in the back seat; CLYDE is semi-conscious in

the front seat.  He looks up through half-closed eyes.

EXT. CAR.

We see a woman pour a bowl of soup at the campfire and bring

it to C.W.  He accepts it.

A man rolls a cigarette and lights it.  Then, very gingerly,

as if afraid to really touch him, he reaches through the

window and places it in CLYDE's lips.  It hangs there, CLYDE

unable to drag on it or remove it.

Children peer through the back window.

C.W. finishes his cup of soup.  He hands it and the cup of

water back to a woman in the crowd.

Quietly, moving together, the Okies step back.  C.W. walks

to the driver's seat, gets in and shuts the door.  He starts

up the car.

The people push a bit closer for a last look.  CLYDE, unable

to do more, nods his head in a barely perceptive gesture by

way of saying "thank you" t ot the people.  The cigarette is

still dangling from his lips.

The car moves off.  A YOUNG BOY pulls on his FATHER's shirt.

A woman, nearby, smiles sweetly.

EXT. MOSS FARM.  MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT.

The car pulls up outside the slightly ramshackle farm of

MALCOLM MOSS, C.W.'s father, in Arcadia, Louisiana.  It

sits, for a moment, in the dark.  Then C.W. honks the horn.

A few seconds pass, and the porch light comes on.  OLD MAN

MOSS comes out in his pajamas and peers into the darkness.

He is a fat man with gray hair.

He runs down the steps, down the path to his son.  They

greet each other, hugging for a second, looking each other

over.

He holds C.W. at arm's length to study him, and suddenly he

scowls at something he sees by the light of the porch.

MALCOLM goes to car and looks inside for a moment.  He walks

back to C.W.

They go to the car and drag the unconscious BONNIE out and

begin carrying her up to the house.

They reach the house.

INT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE IN DEXTER.  DAY.

Although the scene begins with a full-screen close-up of a

newspaper clipping with a photo, it is just a blurry-gray,

crowded scene of BLANCHE's capture.  Really impossible to

make anybody out in the crowd.  Camera stays on photo as we

hear voice over of two men talking: a sheriff and his deputy.

Camera pulls away, BILLY, a young deputy--cold, intense,

humorless and square, carefully folds up the clipping and

puts it in his wallet.

The door opens.  We see, full shot and then fast close-up

FRANK HAMER.  It should be a complete shock to the audience--

this is the man kidnapped by the gang earlier and partially

destroyed by BONNIE.

HAMER is dressed in his Ranger outfit and hat, and again he

has that quality of sinister frenzy beneath his calm manner.

His attitude toward these lawmen is sheer condescension,

friendly only out of convention, really superior and

contemptuous of lesser workers in his field.

PETE and BILLY jump up from the chairs and walk over to

HAMER, hands extended.  They are quite impressed by meeting

in the flesh.

EXT. MOSS FARM.  CLOSE SHOT NEWSPAPER.  DAY.

A coil of rope snaps into and through the paper, splitting

it and revealing C.W.'s startled face.  CLYDE strides the

porch angrily, snapping the rope.

BONNIE and MALCOLM are seated along with C.W.  Through

BONNIE has her arm supported by a sling and CLYDE has his

shoulder bandagedm it is evident by CLYDE's heady indignation

and BONNIE's attentiveness that both are well on the way to

recovery.

Suddenly he moves upon MALCOLM with enormous intent, as if

by pounding the point home to the one relative stranger

among them, he will justify it all.  MALCOLM momentarily

flinches, then listens with intense deference.

CLYDE shakes his head, still thinking this over.  Abruptly,

to BONNIE, with deadly seriousness:

He breaks into a wicked grin, but then reels, catching

himself on the porch railing.  He's obviously dizzy from

exertion and anger.  BONNIE starts--then sees CLYDE is in

control.

C.W. has been studying hard on the torn paper, b.g.  Suddenly:

Group shot.  Porch.  C.W. has trouble with this last phrase.

BONNIE laughs.  This picks up CLYDE's spirits once more.

INT. MOSS HOUSE.

They go into the house.  Camera goes with them.  As soon as

they are out of earshot from BONNIE and CLYDE, MALCOLM turns

on C.W. displaying an entirely different demeanor from the

one he presented outside.

C.W. peeks at it, peering down at his chest, trying to bring

the bluebirds into focus, puzzled.

INT. HOSPITAL.  MED. SHOT OF THE ROOM.

Seated in a soft chair, looking directly at us, is BLANCHE

BARROW.  Her eyes are completely covered with a white

bandage.  She wears a hospital gown.  The room is white and

bright.

Med. shot.  HAMER in the doorway.  The nurse leaves.  He

reaches in his pocket and pulls out a white handkerchief.

He puts it over his mouth to disguise his voice, afraid she

will remember it from the kidnap.  Quietly, almost on

tiptoes, HAMER walks over to BLANCHE.  He gets inches away

from her face.  She still doesn't know he is there.

She starts to her feet, then adjusts to his presence.  She

is a bit panicked.  BLANCHE is now a defeated human being.

Her voice and manner bespeak great weariness, sorrow and

still a touch of her old high-strung hysteria.  But most of

that is gone now, like everything else that was really vital

in her life.

FADE IN:

EXT. CAR ON THE MOSS FARM.  A DIRT PATH NEAR THE BARN.  DAY.

It is pouring rain, middle of the afternoon, BONNIE and

CLYDE are inside the car, sitting.  They have lived so much

in cars that they tend to still spend much of their time in

it rather than in a room.  There they are themselves.

INT. CAR.

BONNIE is in the back seat, her legs wrapped in a plaid

blanket, writing poetry.  She looks like Elizabeth Barrett

Browning.  With one essential difference--her arm is in a

sling and she is wearing bandages on the shoulder.  CLYDE is

in the front seat, reading a newspaper.  He is also partially

bandaged.  On the dashboard is a box of ginger-snaps which

he eats while he reads.  They look domestic.

He holds up the paper; there is one of the photos from the

motel, the one showing BONNIE smoking.  She looks up at it

with mild interest.

Close-up BONNIE.  She doesn't.  She has become totally

fragile, the essence of herself.  She is writing on a pad.

CLYDE and BONNIE.

She does so.  CLYDE munches a cookie.

Close-up.  BONNIE--as she reads intensely.  At the beginning

of this montage, the camera remains on her face.  Behind her

we see the rain on the window.

INT. POLICE STATION.  DAY.

The manuscript is lying on the police blotter.  HAMER picks

it up and continues reading it.  He reads it in a halting

way:

Close-up of a newspaper page.  The poem is printed all the

way down the length of one column.  On the sound track,

BONNIE's voice picks up the recitation:

INT. CAR.  CLOSE-UP OF BONNIE.  DAY.

The day is sunny and we see it through the car window.  She

continues reading, but now she reads it directly from the

newspaper:

BONNIE finishes the poem, as camera pulls back slightly to

show that it is a different day, different clothes and the

bandages are gone.  As she stops, she has an expectant and

somewhat self-satisfied look.

Close-up of CLYDE.  His eyes are wide, his mouth open, his

face shows surprise and delight and he is on the verge of a

giant laugh.

A great laugh comes bursting from him.  Camera widens to

take in BONNIE.  She is both startled and delighted by his

response.

BONNIE giggles.

Close-up BONNIE.  Now laughing too, with a great feeling of

joy.

Two shot.  BONNIE and CLYDE.

He puffs up with air and explodes like a steam valve.

He grabs BONNIE and chuckles delightedly.

Close-up.  BONNIE--laughing, her eyes filled with tears.

CLYDE's hand wipes them away.

Two shot.

He looks at her with love and delight, hugs her tightly.

He pulls her to him, his face inches away from hers, about

to kiss her.  She is waiting, expecting... Suddenly, he lets

out one wild laugh almost into her mouth.

He kisses her.  She kisses back.  They are chuckling,

giggling.  They grow more ardent; they pull back and laugh

again.  They begin to make love.

EXT. ARCADIA STREET.  ICE CREAM PARLOR.  DAY.

Bright afternoon.  Camera across the street from an ice

cream parlor.  Sign about it: "EVA'S HAND-PACKED ICE CREAM."

A large plate glass window fronts the store, and through it

we can see the people inside seated at tables and booths.

Prominent in our vision is MALCOLM MOSS, seated, facing

camera.  He is seated across from another man, but we see

him from the back.

MALCOLM is obviously doing a lot of talking and then some

hard listening; gesticulating and looking disturbed.  After

a bit of this, he rises from the table and begins walking

toward the door.  The other man rises and turns.  We now see

that it is FRANK HAMER.

MALCOLM and HAMER come out onto the sidewalk, squinting in

the sunlight.  MALCOLM mimes some social pleasantries by way

of saying "goodbye," but HAMER's face shows no emotion of

recognition of the gesture.  He turns and walks away,

walking out of the frame.

MALCOLM stands where he is, in front of the ice cream parlor.

By the expression on his face, we can see that he is rather

disturbed by what he has heard and that he is still grappling

with the problem.

BONNIE and CLYDE.  They lie where they were with one

difference--they are now wrapped in the blanket.  CLYDE's

pants are wadded up and tangled with his shoes at the base

of the blanket.

He casts a sidelong glance to BONNIE, wanting some sort of

overt reaction from her.  She's just smiling slightly.

CLYDE's underlying anxiety begins to surface.

CLYDE looks at her for the first time, tremendously relieved.

He can see she means it.  Now his buoyancy, utterly,

unchained breaks through:

Lovingly, laughing, altogether overwhelmed with himself,

CLYDE pulls BONNIE into him.  He kisses her, wants to make

love again, but then pulls back and keeps chattering at

sixty miles a minute.  He's waited twenty-three years to

talk about this, and he's got the perfect audience.

INT. KITCHEN.  MOSS FARM.  TWILIGHT.

After dinner.  There are four empty plates, but only C.W.

and MALCOLM in the kitchen.  C.W. is scraping the bottom of

a wilted "EVA'S HAND-PACKED ICE CREAM" carton.  MALCOLM

studies his son's quiet intensity in this direction for a

moment, then moves very close, whispers when he speaks.

MALCOLM thinks hard about this.

MALCOLM is ready to kill--his son's obtuseness and his fear

of CLYDE is whipping him into a quiet frenzy.

MALCOLM hauls off and whacks C.W. across the top of his head

with the flat of his hand, then momentarily holds his hand

over C.W's mouth.

C.W. suddenly smiles, as if he knew something.

C.W. returns to the ice cream carton--MALCOLM lets him,

figuring he better find out what he can.

MALCOLM knows better, but for just a moment he stares at his

son, fearing that maybe C.W., for all his limitations, has a

sense about CLYDE's sense.  C.W. has finished with the

carton and crumples it, licking the last remnants of cream

off his fingers.

INT. BEDROOM.  MOSS FARM.  NIGHT.

BONNIE and CLYDE's bedroom, the middle of that night.  Both

are wide awake, lying on opposite sides of the double bed.

Both are staring into the night, disquiet.

There is a silent gasp from BONNIE, a barely perceptible

stiffening.  Then she talks in a voice falsely formal, still

staring up at the ceiling.

She flings herself violently across the bed and buries

herself into CLYDE's chest, her knees drawn up, her head

tucked down into him, her body shaking with sobs.

BONNIE nods yes and slowly gets control over her tears.

CLYDE thinks a minute and then grins.

BONNIE is silent.

CLYDE thinks about it a minute.

Suddenly he realizes that he has said the worst thing he

could have, that it was not the answer BONNIE wanted to hear.

He looks down at her, his voice anxious.

She is silent.

But she does not answer.

EXT. ROADSIDE.  EARLY MORNING.

We see MALCOLM jacking up the back wheel of his pickup truck

which is parked on the side of the road in a wooded area.

EXT. ARCADIA STREET.  MID-MORNING.

A street in Arcadia.  The car is parked.  BONNIE and CLYDE

walks toward the car carrying big bags of groceries and

supplies and put them inside.

CLYDE opens the door of the driver's seat and sits down.

INT. CAR.  ARCADIA STREET.  DAY.

He takes off his shoes.

He reaches in his shirt pocket and takes out his sunglasses.

As he goes to put them on, one of the lenses falls out.

He puts them on.

BONNIE gets in the car, rummages around in one of the bags

and pulls out something wrapped in tissue paper.  She

unwraps it and puts it up on the dashboard, displaying it.

It is a little porcelain shepherdess holding a crook in her

hand, worth about thirty cents.

She shows him.

CLYDE turns on the radio and gets some hillbilly music.

They are singing "Little Church in the Valley."  He beats

time on the steering wheel, getting a little impatient.

BONNIE puts her shepherdess away and begins looking in the

grocery sack.

She burrows in the bag and comes out with a peach.  She

takes a big bite.  The juice drips down the side of her

mouth.  She looks beautiful.

Not too delighted with the chore, BONNIE goes off.  We

remain with CLYDE, getting anxious.  The music plays on.

BONNIE comes back, hurriedly, now anxious herself.

CLYDE jumps into action, slams his door.

BONNIE gets in.  They drive off.

INT. STORE.  CLOSE-UP C.W.  DAY.

--hiding inside a store, peering out through a curtained

window at them driving away.  His expression is disturbed;

his face half in shadow.

EXT. ROAD.  DAY.

BONNIE and CLYDE's car coming down the road.  Camera sees

from CLYDE's P.O.V.  MALCOLM standing in the road, waving

him down.  The pickup truck, its back jacked up, is parked

beside him on a shoulder of the road.

INT. CAR.  DAY.

EXT. ROAD.

CLYDE reaches the spot, pulls off the road and stops the car.

He gets out.  Camera pulls back.  CLYDE talks to the old

man, BONNIE stays in the car.  Cut to a shut down the trench

of the law, tense.

Suddenly, a truck loaded with chickens comes riding down the

road from the opposite direction.  HAMER sees it from a long

way away and realizes that he cannot afford to let anything

pass between him and his quarry.  He decides the time is now.

He leaps up from the trench and yells at CLYDE.

The OLD MAN dives under his truck to hide.  The shooting

starts.

We see the chicken truck.  Two men in the front seat.  They

see ahead of them an incredible shooting match and, in

terror, they jam on the brakes and leap out of the truck.

They run as fast as they can into the meadow, away from the

trouble.

The gun fight takes just seconds during which law fires

eight-seven shots at BONNIE and CLYDE, giving them absolutely

no chance.  The sound is rapid, deafening.

At no point in the gun fight do we see BONNIE and CLYDE in

motion.  We see, instead, two still photographs cut into the

sequence: one of Clyde, half out of the car, taking careful

dead aim with his gun, just as he did in the teaching scene:

one of BONNIE, in terror, a pack of cigarettes in her hand

clutched tight, looking as fragile and beautiful as she can

be.

The noise stops at once.  Utter silence.  It has been a

massacre.  BONNIE and CLYDE never had a chance to return the

gunfire.  We see the car, a complete shambles.  We never see

BONNIE and CLYDE dead, though for a moment we discern their

bodies slumped in the car.

The camera pulls above the car until it is on a level with

the opposite side of the road.  Then, slowly, the six lawmen

stand up in the trench.  On the faces of the five deputies,

horror and shock at what they have just done.  HAMER,

however, registers no emotion.  His face is a blank.  He

lights a cigarette.  Slowly, slowly, the five men begin to

edge closer to the car to see the result.  Music, the wild

country breakdown music, begins on the sound track.

Before they reach the car, the camera swings away from them,

past them, and zooms out and above into the meadow where the

two truck drivers are standing--tiny, distant figures.

The truck drivers begin to walk toward the camera, coming

back to the road to see what happened.  They get closer and

closer to the camera until they have reached a middle

distance and, as they continue to walk at us, it is--

<!--Ad Banner

function popupPage() {

<b>}

</b>

popupPage();

//  Ad Banner-->

