<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Bottle Rocket by Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson

EXT. ALLEY. DAY

ANTHONY and DIGNAN walk down an alley behind a convenience

store. Anthony's nineteen. He's got on a red jacket with an

Enco patch. Dignan's twenty. He has a buzz-cut and wears a

short-sleeved terrycloth shirt. He carries a vinyl tennis

bag. It's got a pouch for a racquet but no racquet in it.

They climb over a high wooden fence.

EXT. BACKYARD. DAY

They walk through somebody's backyard.

They climb another fence. There's big house on the other side.

INT. HOUSE. DAY

Anthony and Dignan are inside walking through the foyer.

Anthony goes up the stairway quickly and quietly.

Dignan walks to the master bedroom. Goes in the closet and

grabs a box. Looks inside. Dumps it into his bag.

Anthony goes into a bedroom. Looks in a dresser and takes

out two watches. Digs through some socks and finds some cash.

Dignan goes in the study. Opens a drawer and closes it.

Opens another and lifts out a set of thin leather coin books.

Anthony's in a kid's room. Looking at posters of a football

player and John McEnroe on the walls. He grabs a walkman and

a calculator. Then suddenly stops moving. He crouches down.

Looks at a shelf of dozens of little metal soldiers. They're

in formations with different uniforms.

Dignan is walking down the hallway as Anthony comes down the

stairs. They walk to the door and go out.

INT. DINER. DAY

A twenty-four hour diner. Anthony and Dignan are eating at

the counter.

Dignan nods.

A good-looking WOMAN about forty-five years old interrupts

them.

Anthony hands her a bottle of Tabasco off the counter. She

walks away. Down the counter.

They watch her for a minute. Dignan looks away.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

A huge house with a wide lawn. BOB, who's about twenty-six,

wearing black jeans and a V-neck T-shirt, is spraying down a

battered 1972 Mercedes with a garden hose. He's got his

shirt off and a towel around his neck. Dignan has an

expression of intense concentration as he looks at the car.

Dignan points to a new BMW and a Lexus in front of the garage.

Silence. They all look at the car. Pause.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

They're sitting at the coffee table in Bob's great big

living room. It's got high ceilings and two Persian rugs.

They're eating sandwiches and chips.

Bob slides a coaster under Dignan's glass.

INT. DELI. DAY

Anthony's playing pinball at a machine in the back of a

little grocery store. Dignan's watching.

Anthony looks at Dignan. Dignan points at the pinball machine.

Dignan tries to hit the flipper.

Anthony keeps looking at Dignan. Dignan doesn't look up from

the machine. Anthony turns and walks away.

Dignan watches him go.

EXT. SIDEWALK. DAY

They're walking fast down the sidewalk.

Dignan stops walking. Anthony looks back at him. Pause.

Dignan turns and starts walking the other way.

They both see something. They keep walking. Dignan looks

back down the sidewalk.

Dignan cuts into an alley. Anthony turns back. Looks at a

parked car. Looks left and right. Walks to the car and

reaches in the half-open window.

An alarm goes off. Anthony unlocks the door and opens it.

Leans inside. Grabs a wallet off the seat.

A MAN standing on the sidewalk watches Anthony get out of

the car. Anthony looks at him, then walks down the sidewalk

not too fast. He turns down an alley and runs.

EXT. ALLEY. DAY

Anthony comes around the corner and meets Dignan beside a

dumpster. The alarm is still ringing in the distance.

Anthony starts looking through the wallet.

He looks at Dignan.

Anthony keeps looking at Dignan. Dignan smiles. He hands

Anthony a five dollar bill. Anthony looks at it. He takes it.

He puts it in his pocket. Dignan puts out his hand to shake.

Anthony waits a second. He shakes Dignan's hand for just a

second and walks down the alley. Dignan smiles and walks

behind him.

INT. HAMBURGER PLACE. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan are sitting at a table with Bob.

Bob looks at Anthony and Dignan. He suddenly gets worried.

Bob looks at Anthony for a second. He looks at Dignan. Back

at Anthony.

Bob turns around to see LITTLE RICHARD, short but muscular,

wearing a down vest and a baseball cap.

Little Richard sits down.

Little Richard goes out the door.

Dignan gets up and walks out of the restaurant. Anthony and

Bob look at each other. They start to get up.

EXT. HAMBURGER PLACE. NIGHT

Anthony and Bob go out the door. Dignan is walking over to a

station wagon. Little Richard is getting in.

Little Richard opens his door hard into Dignan's legs, then

gets out fast and takes off his shirt. Dignan tries to hit

him but doesn't connect. They grab onto each other and start

knocking around. Another GUY gets out of the station wagon.

Two more GUYS rush out the door of the burger place. Anthony

and Bob stand back, nervous.

They all watch. Dignan keeps trying to punch Little Richard,

but he's hanging onto him too tight. They keep spinning

around together, moving down the sidewalk.

Anthony looks at the other guys then moves toward Dignan.

Little Richard lets go of Dignan. They separate.

Dignan is holding onto his arm. He kind of moans.

Anthony grabs hold of Dignan's arm. Everybody's watching.

Anthony pulls up hard on Dignan's arm. Dignan tries not to

yell, then suddenly he's OK and relieved.

Guy #2 pushes Dignan. Anthony turns and pounds him in the

face. Right on the nose. The guy goes crosseyed. He falls

down with his legs all tangled-up in a strange position.

Everyone stands there stunned. Anthony takes a step back. He

looks up. He and Dignan take off. Bob stands there. Frozen.

Everyone looks at him. Bob looks at Little Richard.

Bob takes off.

INT. CAR. DAY

The next day. They're driving with Bob. Dignan's up front.

He's banged-up from the fight.

There's a beautiful GIRL on the sidewalk. They drive past her.

Bob immediately turns and they drive past the girl again.

They don't say anything as they go past her. They all just

look at her. They drive on.

A minute later. They've looped back. They're looking for the

girl.

She's on a side street. Bob hits the brakes hard. The girl

looks back at them. They back up a few feet and turn down

the street. They drive slowly toward the girl.

The girl keeps looking back at them.

They come up, beside the girl. She looks right at them,

still walking.

Her expression is angry and also a little scared.

They drive away.

INT. COFFEE SHOP. DAY

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob are meeting with TEMPLE. Temple is

in his mid-fifties, short, heavy, completely expressionless

wide face. They listen intently as he briefs them on the

intricacies of firearms.

They nod seriously. Temple laughs.

EXT. FIELD. DAY

They're standing behind Temple's car in the middle of an

open pasture. The trunk is open. Temple's got some guns in

metal cases. They draw targets on pieces of paper. Anthony

draws a man running on his target. They fire a bunch of

different pistols. The last one they shoot's a .44 Magnum.

They buy it.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

The TV room. There are two big couches and a nice giant TV.

The doors are open onto the balcony. The .44 is on the

coffee table. Dignan is sitting there with a map and some

diagrams laid out. Anthony and Bob are on either side of him.

Dignan's pointing at a notebook page with the heading

"Escape Route."

Bob reaches for the .44.

Anthony is making a little man out of a scrap of paper.

Bob picks up the gun.

Dignan grabs the gun away and sets it down out of Bob's reach.

Anthony picks up the gun off the table. He clicks the action.

Dignan stands up, grabbing his papers.

Dignan starts out of the room. Anthony stands up.

Dignan stops. Looking at Anthony.

Dignan sits back down and starts spreading out his papers

again. Freezes. Looks at Bob. Bob's looking at the gun. Bob

looks at Dignan. Bob looks away. Nobody moves.

EXT. DECK. EVENING

Anthony and Dignan have moved outside to the hot tub.

Anthony pets Bob's dog HECTOR. Bob's brother FUTURE MAN

walks up the path from the driveway with his blonde

cheerleader GIRLFRIEND.

Future Man goes inside. His girlfriend stands there on the

deck.

She stands there, looking across the yard. Anthony and

Dignan sit there in the hot tub, looking around. We hear

Future Man's loud voice inside:

Future Man comes back out. He stops by the hot tub.

Future Man walks back out the gate.

She follows Future Man. Anthony and Dignan watch them walk

away. Bob comes back out with some drinks. He looks shaken.

Bob shrugs and gets in the hot tub. They sip on their drinks.

Bob's got a Heineken.

Anthony gets out of the hot tub and dives in the pool.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob are sitting in Bob's car, parked in

the dark. Bob's at the wheel. Anthony and Dignan are in the

back. Anthony has on a dark blue ski cap. Dignan's wearing a

baseball cap with the brim pulled down low. He puts a piece

of adhesive tape across his nose and hands the roll to

Anthony.

Anthony tapes his nose. They stare out the windshield. The

alarm on Dignan's digital watch goes off.

EXT/INT. BOOKSTORE. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan walk through the shadows in front of a

huge bookstore. The lights are on inside. They watch for a

minute and then go to the front door. Dignan hides behind a

post. Anthony knocks on the glass. An EMPLOYEE appears.

The employee shakes his head. He can't hear through the glass.

The employee unlocks the door and opens it an inch.

Anthony goes inside. Dignan comes out from behind the post.

Dignan goes in. They walk through the store.

Dignan points the gun at the employee.

The MANAGER is locking the door of his office.

Anthony starts walking through the store, checking down each

aisle. He picks up a copy of The Air War on Hitler's Germany

and takes it with him. He goes through literature and sees

ROB in travel, kneeling in front of a low shelf with a

carton of books beside him.

Dignan is in the office with the manager and the first

employee. He's pointing at a drawer.

The manager opens it. It's full of office supplies.

The manager opens the other drawer. It's full of cash.

Dignan looks at the manager. He looks back at the cash.

Dignan points at some bookstore bags. The manager picks up a

little one and starts to put the money in it.

Anthony waiting outside the office door. Rob, the first

employee, and the manager are sitting against the wall in

the office. The manager's got an intense, angry look on his

face, staring at Dignan. Dignan hands Anthony five little

bags full of money and starts to close the office door.

Dignan closes the door.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan jump into the car.

Bob drives. Pretty slow. Anthony and Dignan keep looking

back out the rear window. They're nervous. Nobody says

anything for a block or two.

They keep driving. Breathing hard.

EXT. HAMBURGER PLACE. NIGHT

A picnic table in front of a hamburger place. Dignan is

standing up with his drink in his hand.

Dignan stands there a minute and lets this sink in. Then he

finally sits down and they all eat their burgers.

They laugh smugly.

EXT. 7-11. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob come out of a 7-11. Bob's got a

slurpee. He's carrying the WWII book.

Dignan goes up to Bob and hugs him. Bob's not smiling.

Bob nods and starts walking away, down the sidewalk.

Anthony and Dignan sit on the curb. Anthony's drinking a

milk. Dignan's still watching Bob walk alone down the

sidewalk.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

Dignan and Anthony are following Bob through his house. Bob

is playing his electric guitar, not plugged in.

Bob strums more intensely. They're walking through the

kitchen.

Bob has now come to the big glass patio doors where Hector

sits outside, looking in. Bob keeps playing as he looks at

Hector.

Bob stops playing. He looks at Dignan.

Anthony opens the door to the patio.

They hear breaking glass somewhere as they follow Anthony

onto the patio. A voice yells out.

Bob sets down his guitar as they go out of the yard to see

what's happening.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. EVENING

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob go around to the front. Bob's

neighbor PHIL runs down the driveway with a wrench in his

hand. Phil is short and heavy, wearing a golf shirt. He's

got a bloody nose.

PHIL'S GIRLFRIEND comes running out the front door.

She reaches to hug him.

A couple of NEIGHBORS have come over from across the street.

Later. It's dark out now. There's a police car parked across

the street and another pulling over, lights rolling. One of

the OFFICERS walks across the yard, shining a flashlight in

the bushes. Dignan is talking with one of the other officers.

Two other cops are getting a statement from Phil. Anthony

and Bob are listening. Some neighbors are milling around

talking.

Dignan's still talking to the other cop.

Dignan suddenly looks toward Bob's backyard. The cop nods.

Anthony's looking up into the treetops.

Dignan and the officer are walking over to the backyard.

Dignan jumps the fence. The cop looks over and shines his

flashlight. Dignan's petting Hector. Hector's calm.

Bob starts walking across the street.

As Bob walks away he is looking back, past Anthony, toward

the backyard.

Anthony turns to look.

In the backyard. Dignan is looking in the bushes.

Dignan looks across the yard at the officer. The officer is

shining the light on the marijuana plants. He looks at Dignan.

Dignan sprints across the yard and over the gate.

Anthony and Bob are standing in the shadows across the

street. They see Dignan come racing down the driveway. The

officer is yelling behind the gate.

The other officers are running from their cars.

The officers run past Dignan, toward the back. Anthony and

Bob take off as Dignan runs by. The three of them run full

speed down the street, cutting across yards, between houses.

They throw themselves over fences and scramble through bushes.

INT. BOB'S CAR. DAY

Bob's at the wheel, Dignan in front, Anthony in the back.

They're driving fast down the interstate, past fields and

farmhouses. Dignan's drawing out a route in felt tip pen on

a Texaco roadmap.

EXT. GAS STATION. DAY

Dignan fills up the tank and checks the oil. Bob tests the

tire pressure. Anthony does the windows.

Anthony gets in the car. Pause. Dignan reaches into his

pocket and takes out a wad of cash. He counts some. Stands

there a minute. Goes inside to pay.

INT. CAR. DAY

Anthony stretches out across the backseat on pillows,

playing electronic football. Dignan reads Bob's WWII book.

Bob eats a Ding-Dong and smokes a cigarette.

EXT. FIREWORKS STAND. DAY

A fireworks stand on the side of the highway. The car's

pulled over and they're buying roman candles, M-80's, and

Black Cats from a KID wearing a baseball cap way back on his

head.

As they get back on the highway Anthony lights a roman

candle and fires it from the window. Dignan lights an M-80

and throws it out of the car.

EXT. LAKE. DAY

They drive to a big lake. A dog splashes in and swims for a

tennis ball. Anthony does some nice dives. Dignan swings

from a rope out over the water and lets go. Bob sits on a

bench.

EXT. CAR. DAY

Late afternoon. They're driving on the interstate. Anthony's

got a copy of Runner's World magazine.

Anthony lifts up his foot so Dignan can compare his shoe

with the picture.

EXT. SIDE OF HIGHWAY. DAY

Anthony and Dignan are lined up to race on the side of the

road.

Fifty yards away, Bob's sitting on the hood of the car

parked on the shoulder. He's reading a magazine. He shakes

his head without looking up.

They take off. Dignan has the jump, but Anthony pulls past

him. A car blows by going the other way and they keep racing.

Anthony's out in front as they pass Bob sitting on the car.

Bob's watching. Dignan raises his fists into the air.

Bob gets in the car.

EXT/INT. MOTEL. DAY

A Holiday Inn. Bandera, TX. Bob's car is parked in front.

Inside: Dignan, Bob, and Anthony are checking in. There's a

teenage GIRL behind the counter. Dignan pays cash. The girl

hands over the keys. She's looking at Dignan's shirt:

EXT. MOTEL. DAY

They're walking along the balcony, looking for their room.

Anthony has on his backpack. Dignan's got his tennis bag.

Bob's got two large suitcases, a carry-on, and a garment bag.

They find the room and unlock the door.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Driving in a small town. Bob's behind the wheel. Dignan's in

front. Anthony's in back.

There's a car stopped in front of them. A couple of girls

are standing beside it, talking to the driver. Bob can't get

around.

Dignan leans over and holds down the horn for about five

seconds. The guy in the car sticks hi s hand out the window

and shoots the finger at them. Dignan sounds dead serious:

Bob waits for a nervous moment. He does two quick honks. The

guy's reverse lights go on.

Bob hits the gas and slams into the car. He puts his car in

reverse and backs up a couple of feet. He leans forward and

sees the back of the guy's car. It's all smashed up. The guy

gets out of his car, shaken up, and looks at them. His

expression is confused. Bob punches it and flies backwards

down the street. The guy stands beside his car and watches

them.

They go around the corner. Bob shifts into first and goes.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

They're unlocking the door. They go inside.

Dignan's walking into the bathroom.

Dignan closes the door. Anthony lies down on one of the beds.

Bob just stands there.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. MORNING

The next day. Dignan and Bob are still asleep. Bob's on a

folding bed. Anthony's sitting at the table, reading a

newspaper eating some cereal from one of those little boxes

where you cut open the sides.

EXT. MOTEL POOL. DAY

Ahthony's swimming laps. He stops and hangs onto the side

for a minute. Across the pool he can see a good-looking

Mexican MAID about twenty years old standing beside her cart

looking at him. He waves. She waves and gets back to work.

A little while later. Anthony's sitting in a chair by the

pool, letting the sun dry him off. He's wearing just a

swimsuit. Dignan and Bob are fully dressed, standing beside

him.

Bob has no reaction to this.

Silence.

Dignan starts walking away.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

Anthony's wearing a bathrobe, sitting on one of the beds.

The maid unlocks the door and looks inside. She sees Anthony

and starts to go back out.

She goes in and starts cleaning up. Anthony sits down in one

of the chairs and makes conversation.

He puts out his hand. She shakes it.

She nods.

He helps her make the beds.

EXT. MOTEL HALLWAY. DAY

Anthony walks with Inez from room to room, helpinq her clean

up.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

Inez opens the door to one of the room.. They go in to clean

it.

Anthony picks up a magazine off somebody's suitcase. He

flips through it. Inez takes it out of his hands and puts it

back on the suitcase.

INT. BATHROOM. DAY

Inez is putting a new bar of soap in the shower. Anthony

picks up some wet towels off the floor. It's cramped in there.

Inez takes the towels. She pulls the shower curtain shut.

Inez is trying to get out of the bathroom but Anthony's in

the way.

EXT. MOTEL HALLWAY. DAY

Inez is pushing the cart. Anthony has his hand on the cart.

He picks one up and holds it to his face.

He hands the towel to Inez. She holds it to her face.

Inez says a few sentences of very fast Spanish. Anthony nods.

Inez knocks on the door of a room.

A WOMAN about thirty-five years old opens the door.

The woman goes back into the room. Inez follows her.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

The woman's packing a bag on the bed. Anthony comes in. The

woman looks at him. 8he's about to say something when

Anthony takes the liner out of the trashcan. The woman's

HUSBAND comes out of the bathroom. Anthony picks up some

stuff off the floor.

Anthony follows Inez into the bathroom. The husband looks at

his wife.

INT. BARBERSHOP. DAY

Diqnan's sitting in the waiting area of a barbershop reading

a newspaper. We can see Bob out the window, talking on a pay

phone. He hangs up and comes inside.

EXT. BARBERSHOP. DAY

They're standing next to the spinning striped pole.

Bob looks off into the distance. Sickened.

INT. DINER. DAY

They're sitting at a table, waiting for their order.

Dignan mulls this over for a minute.

Dignan looks at Bob for a minute.

Bob glares at Dignan. Dignan shrugs. The waitress brings

over some glasses of water, ice clinking. Nobody says

anything while she sets them down. She walks away.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Dignan drives the car slowly alongside: Bob walking down the

sidewalk, staring straight ahead. Dignan's, got his window

down.

Bob keeps walking.

No reaction. Bob keeps walking straight ahead.

Bob stops walking.

Pause. Bob gets into the backseat. Dignan looks back at him

for a minute.

Bob nods and looks out the window.

Bob exhales and gets out. He gets in up front. Dignan looks

at him for a minute.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Dignan and Bob open the door and go in. Inside: Inez and two

other Hispanic MAIDS are sitting at the table by the window.

One's about seventeen and a little heavy, the other's in her

mid-thitties. There's a bunch of glasses and a bottle of rum

on the table. One of the maids is cutting up a banana. Inez

smiles at Dignan. Dignan looks puzzled.

Suddenly there's a loud crunching, grinding sound. Dignan

and Bob are startled. They look around the room. The sound

stops.

Anthony comes out of the bathroom carrying the pitcher from

a blender. It's full to the top with yellow liquid. He sees

Dignan and Bob and stops. Pause.

Silence.

Anthony holds up the pitcher. Dignan looks at it. Nods. Pause.

A strange expression crosses Bob's face.

EXT. MOTEL HALLWAY. NIGHT

Outside the room. Dignan closes the door. There's three

housekeeping carts in the hall.

Dignan cracks open the door and looks inside.

EXT. MOTEL POOL. DAY

They walk around the motel.

Pause. Bob looks at Dignan. Looks at Anthony.

They shake hands and start back to the room.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, Inez, Carmen, and Anita are sitting crowded

around the little table by the window in the motel room.

They've got banana daqueris and a bottle of wine. Moonlight

comes through the window. Bob is standing up in front of

them with a banana daqueri in his hand. He's singing a blues

number acapella. He's got a good voice.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Dignan and Bob are playing slapjack with Carmen and Anita.

Everyone's got their hands ready as  Carmen turns one card

then the next. Bob's having a conversation in fluent Spanish

with them about Las Vegas. He's talking about the rules at

different casinos: Bally's, Caesar's, the Desert Inn.

Dignan's paying close attention to the deck. A jack comes up

and he slams it.

EXT. MOTEL POOL. NIGHT

There's a light in the pool. Anthony and Inez are swimming.

Anthony swims around her with his eyes just above the water.

He goes under and comes up grabbing onto her. She laughs.

Inez starts to giggle.

He kisses her.

They look up. Dignan's standng at the other side of the pool.

He smiles.

Dignan sitting with his feet in the pool. Anthony and Inez

are sitting on the steps beside him, in the shallow end.

Dignan stares wistfully across the pool. Anthony looks at

him for a minute.

They're all quiet for a minute. Inez hangs onto the side.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Bob's sitting in the room by himself, close to the TV,

watching a war movie.

EXT. MOTEL. DAY

The next morning. Dignan bursts out the door of the motel

room. He runs across the parking lot.

Dignan runs back into the room. He comes out with Anthony.

Anthony looks around the parking lot.

Anthony puts his hands in his pockets. Looks out at the

highway.

They stand there in the empty parking lot. Anthony goes

inside.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

In the room. The blinds are pulled. Anthony's sitting at the

end of a bed. Dignan's pacing around the room.

Anthony gets up and walks to the bathroom. He shuts the door.

Dignan follows him over to the sink and sits on the counter.

Anthony opens the door and walks out.

Anthony sits back down on the bed. Dignan's shocked.

INT. DINER. DAY

Anthony and Dignan are sitting at a booth. Anthony's got a

roadmap spread out on the table. There's a long silence.

Anthony sits there thinking for a second, stating into space.

Then he looks back at his map. He draws some lines in two

different colors of felt tip pens.

Pause. Dignan kind of looks at the map, without leaning

forward. Anthony turns the map more in Dignan's direction.

Dignan leans forward, looking.

They look at the map for a minute. Dignan looks out the

window.

EXT/INT. MOTEL/TOWN. DAY

Anthony runs down the sidewalk, cuts across the street, and

goes around the side of the motel. He pulls off his jacket

as he goes up the stairs. He spots Inez's cart. He walks

over to the room she's cleaning. She's in there making the

bed. Anthony closes the door and grabs her by her belt.

She's laughing and he pushes her onto the bed. He unbuttons

her dress. She jerks a sheet out of the way. It swings in

the air.

Then we see Anthony and Inez walking down the sidewalk. He's

got one arm wrapped tight around her shoulders and she's got

hers around his waist. They're talking while they walk,

going past people in the town.

They watch each other walking reflected in a window.

EXT. MOTEL. EVENING

Dignan is doing the butterfly in the pool. Anthony and Inez

walk over and wait for him at the end of the pool.

Dignan treads water. Inez looks at Anthony.

Dignan gets out of the pool.

INT. MEXICAN BAR. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Inez are drinking beers with limes and

salt. The mood is good and they're getting drunk. Anthony

and Inez dance. Then Dignan and Inez. Mexican-style, stomping

their feet and clapping. There's a scruffy dog in the bar

and he barks at the dancers. Anthony kisses Inez and they

whisper to each other. Dignan orders another beer and moves

over to the pool table. A skinny Mexican MAN puts his arm

around Dignan's shoulder. He's drunk and slurring his words.

So's Dignan.

Dignan nods.

He says something in fast Spanish to the people at his table

and they smile.

Dignan nods. The guy racks up the balls. They start shooting.

Dignan makes a hard shot.

Dignan looks over to the bar. Anthony and Inez are gone.

Dignan ignores this. They keep playing. Dignan finally makes

the eight ball. The man shakes Dignan's hand and holds on.

He pulls Dignan in and with his other hand fakes a hard punch.

INT. BATHROOM. NIGHT

The bathroom is very small with one bare light bulb. Dignan

stands at the urinal, muttering to himself.

The door opens and Dignan turns around just in time to see

the Mexican man throw a hard punch. He hits Dignan in the

stomach, punches him in the face. Dignan goes down hard. The

guy kicks him and curses in Spanish.

The bartender comes in with a bat in his hand and starts

talking fast and angry in Spanish. The guy gets out.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Dignan's sitting in bed, watching TV. He's got a fat lip and

a big bruise over his eye. Anthony's sitting in a chair

beside him. Inez brings over a glass of water and some ice

in a washcloth. She gives the ice to Dignan for his eye. She

puts the glass of water on the nightstand where there's some

fast food layed out for Dignan: burger, fries, an apple pie.

Inez goes into the bathroom, closes the door, and turns on

the water. Anthony's sitting there with his hands clasped,

not looking at the TV.

Anthony hands him the fries. Dignan watches the TV.

Anthony looks at Dignan.

For the first time Dignan looks away from the TV, at Anthony.

The bathroom door opens.

Inez comes back in.

Inez goes outside. She closes the door.

EXT. SIDEWALK. DAY

Dignan's standing on a corner alone. He looks sullen.

EXT. SIDEWALK. DAY

Anthony walks down an alley. He goes past a beat-up

convertible. He stops, hands in his pockets. He looks both

ways.

He cuts back to the car, opens the door, and slips inside.

INT. STOLEN CAR. DAY

Anthony's behind the wheel. He hand signals a turn and pulls

up next to Dignan. Dignan shakes his head as he looks at the

car. He gets in. They drive through the town. The wind's

blowing hard. Anthony smiles at Dignan. Dignan tries not to

smile.

Dignan sitting in the parked car with the motor running. In

the side mirror he's watching Anthony and Inez. Anthony's

saying goodbye. He walks back to the car and gets in. He

puts it in gear and they drive off.

Anthony shrugs.

Anthony is silent.

Silence. Dignan exhales and looks out the window.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

The car is on the shoulder, raised up on a Jack with the

hood open. Anthony's looking underneath the car. Dignan's

standing in the middle the road with his hands in his

pockets. No cars in sight.

Anthony starts messing around under the hood. He tests some

wires and connections. He steps away from the car.

Dignan stares down the road.

Anthony walks over to Dignan. He stands beside him for a

minute.

Dignan stares at Anthony.

Pause. Anthony reaches into his pocket and pulls out the

money. Dignan takes it. He counts it. He looks at Anthony.

Dignan stares at Anthony. Pause.

Dignan frowns slightly. Pause. He screams:

Pause. Dignan runs at the car and kicks the door as hard as

he can. It makes a big dent. He runs down the shoulder and

grabs a big rock. He runs at the car and smashes the rock

through the windshield. He stands still. He turns to Anthony.

He walks back over to him, yelling.

Anthony slaps Dignan hard in the face.

Dignan punches Anthony is the face. Follows it up with one

after another. Anthony ducks and puts his arms out. He falls

on one knee. Dignan immediately turns and walks to the car.

Anthony stands up. He's got a bloody nose. He stares at

Dignan. Not angry. Just weary.

Dignan pulls his tennis bag out of the car. He shuts the

door and walks down the highway.

Anthony walks to the car and takes out his backpack. He

pulls it tight around his shoulders. He looks down the

highway at Dignan. Then turns and walks the other way, into

the distance.

FADE IN:

EXT. GOLF COURSE. DAY

A cold day on a nice country club course. Anthony watches

Bob hit a hard slide straight into the rough. Bob stands

there in a frozen follow-through. Then he suddenly swings

his club and hums it down the fareway. He starts to walk

back to the golf cart.

Bob looks down the fareway. He takes a deep breath and

starts walking toward his club about twenty yards away.

INT. GOLF CART. DAY

In the cart. Bob's driving. There's a brief silence.

MONTAGE: Electronics wizardry. Splicing wires. Buzzing

electrodes. A filament lights up blue. Pliers and clippers

rewire a circuit breaker, short out the P.A. system,

electrify doors and windows. Anthony continues in VOICEOVER.

EXT. SCHOOL. DAY

A large school building. Tall oak trees and benches in the

shade. Green and blue lights blink in the windows. White

flashes and loud jolts of energy dance from room to room.

Mozart plays in the distance.

Students begin to swarm out into the yard.

EXT. GOLF COURSE. DAY

Anthony and Bob are standing on the seventeenth green.

Anthony stares down the fareway.

INT. GOLF CART. DAY

Anthony and Bob are driving back to the clubhouse.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

Anthony and Bob are sitting by the pool, drinking beers.

Future Man's swimming laps even though it's cold out.

Future Man toweling off. He wears a Speedo swimsuit. He

walks over to Bob and Anthony. Anthony's just finishing a

drawing of a leaping jungle cat in black and red ink on

Bob's shoulder.

Future Man stops and looks at them with no feeling.

Pause. Future Man looks at Bob.

He walks inside.

Long pause.

INT. CAR. DAY

Dignan and APPLEJACK are sitting in, a '72 Monte Carlo by

the curb two houses down from Bob's. Applejack is a small

black man with white hair. It's hard to tell exactly how old

he is. Around sixty-five.

Anthony is walking Hector down the driveway.

Anthony does some stretching exercises in the driveway.

They watch Anthony and Hector start down the street.

Applejack puts the car in gear. They drive slowly.

Anthony looks back.

Anthony keeps jogging with Hector.

Anthony goes around a corner, down an alley.

They pull down to the end of the alley. Anthony and Hector

are racing down the alley.

EXT. ALLEY. DAY

Dignan gets out of the car.

Anthony looks back. He stops running.

Dignan jogs down the alley. He stops a few feet away from

Anthony.

Anthony points down the alley.

Dignan looks down the alley. He looks at Anthony. Pause.

Pause.

Anthony puts his hand out. They shake. Pause. Anthony looks

down the alley.

They walk to the car.

They shake.

Anthony shrugs and smiles. He nods.

EXT. HAMBURGER PLACE. DAY

A hamburger place with no other customers. Anthony, Dignan,

and Applejack are sitting at an outdoor table. It's cold and

their jackets are zipped up tight.

Applelack and Dignan slap hands.

Dignan takes a little notebook out of his pocket.

Dignan opens the notebook on the table.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Anthony, Dignan, and Applejack are standing in front of a

massive structure with ladders and towers and huge doors.

Applejack's car is parked behind them. There are trucks

lined up along the loading docks. A big sign says Hinckley

Cold Storage.

Anthony stares at Hitckley Cold Storage.

EXT. WAREHOUSE. DAY

Anthony, Dignan, and Applejack are standing on the sidewalk

at the front door of an old warehouse. Dignan knocks on the

door, then tries the bell. They all wait.

Dignan looks in the window. He tries the door. It's locked.

Anthony puts his hand up. Applejack does a short, hard jab.

Anthony shakes his hand out.

Dignan puts his hand up. Applejack nails it.

A drop of water hits Dignan on the head. He looks up. More

water falls on him. He gets out of the way. Everyone looks

up. There's a man on the roof. He laughs, hysterically. They

stare up at him.

Dignan shrugs. He goes over to the door. Mr. Henry pours

some more water on him.

A minute later: a steel garage door opens and the man steps

outside. He is tall, about sixty years old with white hair

clipped short and a trim goatee. He wears black trousers,

black shoes, no shirt, and a string of animal teeth around

his neck. This is MR. HENRY. He puts a towel around Dignan's

shoulders and pats him on the back.

Mr. Henry stares hard at Dignan. He looks to Anthony. He

looks back to Dignan.

Mr. Henry stares at Dignan. He looks to Anthony.

They shake hands. Mr. Henry points to ROWBOAT, a tall, older

black man standing in the doorway. Rowboat wears a white

windbreaker.

INT. WAREHOUSE. DAY

The second floor of the warehouse is one huge room painted

all white. Mr. Henry and Anthony are playing ping-pong.

Dignan watches. Rowboat-and Applejack are on the far side of

the room playing chess.

Anthony changes his grip. Mr. Henry serves. The ball clicks

back and forth. They're both solid players. Anthony whips a

shot crosscourt and wins the point.

Mr. Henry serves. Anthony returns. Mr. Henry suddenly fires

a scorching shot down the line. Anthony watches it click

past him. He looks to Mr. Henry.

Mr. Henry smiles. He looks to Dignan.

Anthony stands there silent. He looks to Applejack and

Rowboat. He looks to Mr. Henry. Then Dignan.

Mr. Henry puts down his paddle. Stares at Anthony. Smiles.

INT. WAREHOUSE. DAY

The ground floor is crammed with cars. Some have been taken

apart. Some are shiny and perfect. Anthony and Dignan walk

among the cars and junk with Mr. Henry. They've each got

coffee in a styrofoam cup.

EXT. ROOFTOP. DAY

On the roof of the warehouse. They're standing near the

edge, looking out. Mr. Henry is smoking a joint. He's got on

a black beret. Anthony and Dignan are listening to him talk.

Dignan nods.

INT. KUMAR'S ROOM. DAY

KUMAR is about sixty-five with white hair. He's short and

wears a pale-green button-down shirt, dark trousers, and

sandals. His room is small and has everything he needs in it.

Books. Little TV. Possessions from all over the world.

Kumar sits on his bed. Anthony and Dignan sit in wooden

chairs. Kumar stares out the window. They sit for a long

silence.

Kumar shrugs. Pause.

Kumar nods. He looks at a plant growing by the window.

Silence.

Kumar shakes his head. Sighs deeply. Long pause.

Kumar suddenly stands up and unbuttons his shirt. He throws

it on the bed. He undoes his trousers and takes them off.

Anthony looks at Dignan. Kumar takes off his socks, then his

shorts. He is naked. He walks over to his dresser and takes

out a small satchell. He looks around the room. Right at

Anthony. He walks quickly toward him. Anthony gets nervous.

Kumar grabs Anthony's shoulder and lifts him up a little. He

pulls a towel out from underneath Anthony. He puts his hand

on Dignan's shoulder as he walks to the door, into the hall.

He goes out. Anthony and Dignan sit there for a minute.

They're a little disoriented.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. NIGHT

The foyer of Bob's house. The doorbell is ringing. Bob walks

in wearing a velour robe. He opens the front door. Anthony

and Dignan are standing on the dootstep. Dignan and Bob

shake hands. It's a little awkward.

They walk through the house.

Dignan walks straight to the back door and goes out. He

stands on the deck.

Anthony gets up and tries to calm Dignan down.

Bob is slowly moving toward the back door.

Bob is standing just inside the back door.

Dignan grabs Bob's shirt and pulls him out the door.

Anthony breaks them up. He stands in front of Bob, shielding

him.

Dignan gets around Anthony and lands a glancing punch.

Dignan lands another punch. He grabs Bob's shirt and pulls

him around. Then he starts landing punches. One. Two. Then

Bob nails Dignan in the shoulder. They grab onto each other

and start fighting hard. They're about the same strength.

After a couple of seconds Anthony tries to break it up.

All the sudden Dignan stops fighting.

Dignan puts his arms around Bob.

Dignan turns to Anthony. There's tears in his eyes.

They all catch their breath for a minute. Dignan hugs Bob

again.

They stand there another minute.

EXT. COUNTRY CLUB. DAY

The restaurant at Bob's country club, People are dressed for

golf and tennis. The waiters wear white jackets. and black

bow ties. The whole crew sits at a big table by the front

window.

A black waiter about thirty-five, JACKSON, stops by the table.

Jackson refills their water glasses.

Mr. Henry laughs. Bob smiles sheepishly. Jackson stands

there for a minute looking around the room.

Jackson nods.

Bob looks at Dignan. Dignan's looking across the room.

There's Future Man and his friend CLAY fresh from a round of

golf. They're standing on the other side of the room,

looking across at Bob. They're smiling. Jackson picks up two

empty plates and walks away. Future Man and CLAY walk to

Bob's table.

Future Man looks at Anthony and Dignan. His smiles fades.

Future Man looks at the rest of the crew. His smile comes

back. Mr. Henry smiles.

Clay laughs. Future Man smiles.

Clay smiles. Bob shakes his head. Mr. Henry stands up.

Everyone looks at him. He's got a cold but calm expression.

Future Man nods. Pause. Mr. Henry doesn't sit down.

Future Man and Clay walk away. Mr. Henry sits down.

Bob smiles. They all smile.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Dignan's hidden in some bushes, watching the Hinckley Cold

Storage building with binoculars. Anthony's crouched beside

him taking notes in a notebook.

Dignan keeps watching through the binoculars. He suddenly

looks back at Anthony.

Anthony nods. He's writing something.

Anthony shows him a little flip cartoon of a guy pole

vaulting.

INT/EXT. PLANNING SEQUENCE. DAY

We see the team assembled around a table. They're drinking

coffee and looking at pictures, charts, maps, diagrams,

tools. Dignan passes out some walkie talkies.

They test out some smoke cannisters on the roof. Dignan

throws one down. They all run for cover.

Applejack and Dignan drive fast through a slalom course in a

deserted parking lot.

We see Kumar working on a safe. He wears a stethoscope and

listens to the tumblers. He turns the dial. Dignan is timing

him with a stopwatch.

Kumar opens the safe. He looks at Dignan. Dignan nods with a

serious expression on his face.

EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS. DAY

Anthony and Mr. Henry are jogging along railroad tracks in

the warehouse district. Anthony wears a blue T-shirt and

shorts. Mr. Henry looks like a boxer in grey sweats with the

hood up and a crisp white towel wrapped around his neck and

tucked into his sweat top. He's wearing black Chuck Taylors.

They've both got smooth running styles, though every twenty

yards or so Mr. Henry rolls his shoulders and gives a quick

flurry of punches. An older woman rides a bicycle across the

tracks. She's not pretty, but she's got a strong face.

Pioneer stock.

They watch her ride down the street.

Anthony stops running. Mr. Henry stops ahead of him and

looks back, jogging in place. Pause.

Mr. Henry stops jogging in place.

Mr. Henry walks to Anthony and puts his hand on his shoulder.

Anthony knocks it off.

Mr. Henry looks Anthony right in the eye.

Anthony has to recover.

Anthony takes a deep breath. Mr. Henry massages Anthony's

shoulders. He takes Anthony's head in his arms and does a

quick pull to one side: cracks his neck. Then the other side.

Anthony rubs his hands on his neck and moves his head around.

They start jogging again.

They veer away from the tracks, picking up the pace, and

head into a field toward Mr. Henry's warehouse.

EXT. ROOFTOP. NIGHT

They're having a party at Mr. Henry's warehouse. There are

tables and a BBQ on the roof, with white Christmas lights

strung up and music playing. Anthony, Dignan, Bob, Kumar,

and Mr. Henry are there. Plus a couple of young GIRLS,

eighteen or nineteen years old. Mr. Henry's got a name tag

that says, Hi, my name is Mr. Henry. Everyone's mingling on

the rooftop. Rowboat is at the grill. Applejack comes up the

stairs with a grocery bag under his arm.

Mr. Henry and Applejack shake hands.

Mr. Henry goes over to Kumar and throws his arm around him.

Dignan's solemn for a minute. He takes a bite of a hot dog.

Dignan hesitates. He takes the hot dog away from his mouth.

He's embarassed. Applejack shakes his head, disgusted. He

walks away.

Anthony and Mr. Henry are standing together in a doorway. Mr.

Henry's got a martini.

Bob is talking to the other girl.

Kumar and Applejack are sitting at a table.

Kumar does a handstand.

INT. WAREHOUSE. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob are sitting at the table in Mr.

Henry's office. Dignan's got plans and diagrams spread out.

There's music playing in the next room and we can hear

people talking outside the door.

Mr. Henry looks in the door. He's got a glass of wine in one

hand and a bottle and empty glasses in the other.

Mr. Henry looks at the plans on the table. He sets down the

three glasses and pours some wine.

Dignan nods seriously.

They all try the wine. Mr. Henry watches their reactions.

They drink.

EXT. ROOFTOP. NIGHT

Back on the roof. Bob and Dignan are sitting at a table with

one of the girls. Applejack is dancing with another. Kumar's

talking to Reudi. Anthony and Mr. Henry are standing at the

edge of the roof, looking out at the city. Mr. Henry's

smoking a joint.

Mr. Henry passes the joint to Anthony. Anthony smokes it.

Anthony passes the joint back to Mr. Henry.

Mr. Henry exhales the smoke. He hands the joint to Anthony.

Anthony takes a hit. They stare out at the darkness.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan are sitting in the kitchen. Anthony's got

on a t-shirt and boxers. Dignan's wearing a bathrobe. All

the lights in the house are out except one in the kitchen.

Anthony's drinking a glass of milk. Dignan's got orange juice.

Dignan nods.

Anthony shrugs. There's a long silence.

Anthony nods. Pause. He smiles slightly.

Silence. Dignan's a little embarassed.

They both sit there for a minute. Quiet. Anthony sips his

milk.

Bob comes into the kitchen in his bathrobe looking haggard

yet wired. Anthony and Dignan look at him. He goes to the

refrigerator. He takes out a chocolate cake and a carton of

milk. He pours himself a glass of milk. He goes over to the

table with the cake and sits down. He cuts himself a piece

of cake. He swallows two pills, one at a time, each with a

long drink of milk. The pills are big capsules and he

struggles a little when he swallows.

Bob senses that's he's over-reacted. He backtracks.

Bob starts to cut him a piece.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Anthony is positioned behind some bushes, across from the

building. He's wearing a black parka. He looks through some

binoculars. Re pulls out his walkie talkie.

Anthony waits a second.

We see Dignanr Applejack, and Kumar getting out of the car.

Dignan starts to move out. He remembers something. Says back

into his walkie talkie:

Dignan, Applejack, and Kumar start across the parking lot.

Dignan's got on a business suit. Applejack has on sunglasses.

Kumar is carrying a leather satchel.

They go in the side door and down a narrow passageway. They

get into the freight elevator and go up. Bob's voice comes

through on Dignan's walkie talkie.

We see Bob: standing on the loading dock behind the building.

He's wearing an extremely heavy wool jumpsuit with a hood.

We see Anthony: still in the bushes.

Anthony gets up and starts out across the parking lot, hands

in his pockets, not too quickly.

Dignan, Kumar, and Applejack get off the elevator.

Applejack goes one way down the hall. Dignan and Kumar go

the other. They turn the corner. They go down a wide

passageway.

Dignan and Kumar come up to a door. Dignan slides a crowbar

out of his jacket. He snaps open the door. They go in. It's

a small office with a desk and a little safe in the corner.

Dignan clears everything off the desk with one quick sweep

of the arm. He puts down the briefcase and opens it up. It's

full of tools. Kumar unzips his satchel and takes out a roll

of tape. He immediately sets to work on the safe. Dignan

steps back out the door and closes it.

We see Anthony on top of a fire escape, about four stories up.

We see Dignan standing in the hall, outside the office.

We hear the sound of an elevator moving.

We see Anthony on the fire escape.

Anthony goes in a little door. Down a passageway. Through a

freezer. Into a corridor. Past the freight elevator, which

is open on this floor. Then around a corner to a smaller

elevator as it opens: Bob's inside.

Dignan's still standing in the hall as Anthony and Bob come

around the corner. Dignan yells at them down the hall.

The elevator starts whirring again.

For just a second we hear the sound of music playing.

Everyone freezes. FOUR GUYS, two of them in jumpsuits like

Bob's, step out into the corridor. They've got bags from

Jack in the Box. They're drinking drinks and shakes. One of

them is holding a jam box. They stop. Dignan pulls out his

gun.

Anthony and Bob pull out their guns and hold them on the

four guys.

Simultaneously: Kumar opens the door. Applejack comes

running down the hall with his gun out.

Applejack reaches in his pocket and pulls out a dark blue

nylon stocking. He pulls it over his head. Dignan, Anthony,

and Bob immediately do the same. Anthony's is red.

Dignan steps into the office with Kumar.

Kumar looks at his tools. Moves them around on the desk.

He goes back into the hall.

TWO GUYS with a cart stop at the end of the corridor.

Bob's gun goes off. Everybody looks at him. Dead silence.

Bob looks around like it must have been somebody else's gun

that went off.

Applejack falls to his knees. He drops his gun.

Applejack clutches his arm and rolls onto his side.

Dignan throws down his smoke cannister. Bob and Anthony

automatically throw down theirs. Smoke instantly fills the

hall.

The hostages stand completely clear of the smoke. They watch

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob rush around blindly in the haze.

Anthony holds all the guys at gunpoint. Dignan and Bob carry

Applejack down the hall, into the elevator.

An alarm starts ringing.

Dignan runs back down the hall to Anthony.

The guy on the floor kind of shrugs.  Anthony crosses the

hall. He pulls open one of the big freezer doors. Kumar is

standing there with his bag and the briefcase.  You can see

his breath in the air.

They go down the hall to the freight elevator.  They start

down.

Kumar shakes his head and shrugs his shoulders.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

They go out the front door, across the parking lot. Kumar's

lagging behind.

They come up to the car. Anthony tries the door. It's locked.

Bob comes running around the side of the building.

Everyone looks at everyone else.

Bob takes off at a sprint. Kumar follows him.

Anthony pulls off the red stocking and throws it down. He

tries the other doors on the car.

Dignan pulls off his stocking. Anthony starts walking fast

across the parking lot. Dignan stands still by the car.

Staring straight ahead.

Dignan starts toward the building. Anthony moves after him.

Dignan and Anthony look at each other for an instant. Dignan

turns and sprints back into the building.

Anthony stands alone in the parking lot.

a bedroom with big French windows. No furniture.

a wood-panelled study. Stripped bare.

an elegant dining room. Cleaned out.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

A GUY in a moving company uniform carries a Louis XIV chair

out the front door of Bob's house, down the path to the

street. Two other MOVERS pass him on the way. They've got a

dolly.

The guy carries the chair into a huge moving van. It's full

of furniture and paintings.

Mr. Henry and Rowboat are standing in the street. Rowboat's

smoking a cigarette, writing on clipboard. Hector stands

behind them in the grass. Mr. Henry takes out two cigars. He

holds one out to Rowboat. Rowboat shakes his head. Mr. Henry

shrugs and lights one for himself.

Rowboat nods, smoking. Mr. Henry looks at Hector. He points.

Hector sits. Mr. Henry smiles a broad smile. The movers go

buy with a beautiful Moroccan divan.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Dignan comes out the front door pulling Applejack, semi-

conscious, to the car. Dignan loans Applejack against the

door. He checks Applejack's pockets for the keys. He looks

around on the ground.

He hears sirens in the distance. He looks across the parking

lot. Two squad cars screech in off the street.

Dignan takes off into the building.

INT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Dignan sprints down the corridor. Races up the stairs. Runs

down hall after hall.

Two COPS appear out of the elevator.

Dignan ducks into a stairwell. He runs down the stairs and

into another corridor. He can hear cops yelling from two

different directions. He crosses a catwalk. Cuts through an

office. Pulls open a door and goes into one of the freezer

rooms.

Cops come yelling down the hallway. Dignan runs through the

freezer room and tries the other door. It's stuck. Three

COPS come inside. Dignan instantly puts his hands up in the

air.

Dignan drops the gun. The cops rush him. They nail him into

the wall. Get him in a headlock, pulling hard.

They pull him into the hallway.

They put him face down on the floor and cuff him.

They move him down the corridor. Dignan's nose is bleeding.

He looks terrified.

Applejack is sitting propped up against the wall. He's got

an oxygen mask on his face and a team of paramedics and cops

around him. Somebody's taking his blood pressure. Another

one's giving him an IV.

Anthony running down a sidewalk. He drops his gun in a

trashcan without slowing down. He crosses a bridge and runs

into the the trees.

FADE IN:

EXT. COUNTY JAIL. DAY

There's snow in the air. The prison yard is wide with dry

grass and concrete. It's split up by chain link fences.

Guards sit in the towers.

Dignan's wearing an inmate jumpsuit. Anthony and Bob walk

with him across the yard. They've brought along two bags of

food from a hamburger place.

Dignan smiles.

Anthony kind of smiles.

Anthony nods. Silence. They walk past a bunch of guys

lifting weights on the other side of a fence.

Dignan nods. Pause.

Bob shrugs, looking at the ground. Dignan looks to Anthony.

Dignan's stunned to hear this.

Pause. Dignan nods.

Long silence.

a picnic table in the prison yard. There's frost on the

ground. They're eating lunch.

Long pause.

Dignan nods.

Long pause.

Anthony takes a sip from a milkshake. Dignan unwraps the

foil from a cheeseburger. He takes a bite.

Anthony and Bob laugh. Dignan takes another huge bite.

Dignan in handcuffs behind a chain link fence. He's standing

in line with some other inmates.

Anthony nods. They stand there in silence. The line moves

forward a few steps. Anthony and Bob walk with Dignan on the

other side of the fence. The line stops. Pause.

Dignan leans toward the fence.

He motions for them to come closer to the fence. He whispers:

The line starts moving. Anthony and Bob walk with Dignan on

the other side of the fence.

The line starts moving faster.

Anthony and Bob look all around in a panic. They look to

Dignan.

Dignan shuffles along with the rest of the inmates. He looks

at Anthony and Bob. He smiles. He shrugs.

Bob and Anthony slowly half-smile. They wave to Dignan as

the line of inmates turns away. Anthony looks to Bob. Bob

smiles.

The line of inmates stops about fifty feet away. Dignan

looks back. Anthony looks at him. Dignan's expression has

changed. He wasn't expecting them to see it. His eyes look

cold. Anthony puts his hand on the fence. Dignan turns and

the line of inmates disappears into the cell block.

Anthony stands there in silence.. He lets go of the fence.

He walks with Bob down the long path in the cold air.

