A MAN with an unruly head of hair and full beard pushing a

wheelbarrow with a double edged axe wheels up behind Easy as

he opens his gate.

Easy continues up his walkway past flower beds of dahlias

and wild roses and stops on his front porch to check on his

African violets in a jar next to the front door.

He walks into his tiny living room and tosses his jacket

onto the sofa. Then moves on through the kitchen and out

the back door.

He picks up a water hose and turns on the faucet, watering

and admiring his apple, avocado, pomegranate and banana

trees as he lights a cigarette.

Easy parks in front of a large Spanish-style building.   He

gets out and walks to the black wrought iron entrance.

Easy only stares, hating this little man.

Disgusted, Easy turns to leave.

He sizes up Easy and then points across the courtyard.

Easy half nods/half glares and walks away.

At the other side of the garden Easy turns a corner and

heads down concrete steps. At the bottom he opens a door

leading into

He looks into the boiler room but turns into an empty

corridor stopping at a heavy steel door at the end.

He knocks. After a moment a tall and slight MAN with curly

brown hair and the complexion of an East Indian opens the door.

A short and stocky kind of Chinese-looking MAN stands

against the door at the far end. The Tall Man ushers Easy

into the clutter of heavy metal tools, cans of paint and

cleaning solutions. A card table with two chairs sits idly.

The Tall Man closes the door and holds out his hand. Easy

reaches to shake it but the man starts to pat Easy on his

side and Easy pushes him away.

The Chinese Man slips a hand inside his coat and the Tall

Man smiles.

The Chinese Man pulls some kind of weapon halfway out and

takes a step forward, and the Tall Man tries to put his hand

against Easy's chest but Easy grabs his wrist.

Manny pushes his weapon back in his coat and knocks on the

door behind him.

After a moment, DeWitt Albright opens up.

Easy follows Albright inside and the big man goes behind a

big wooden desk and puts his bone-colored shoes up next to a

half full bottle of Wild Turkey. On the other end of the

desk a small radio scratches out the Glen Gray Orchestra's

"Gotta Be This or That."

There is a paper calendar hanging on the wall behind him

with a picture of a basket of blackberries, but other than

that the room is bare.

Easy takes a seat in a chair in front of the desk and tries

not to stare at the tan leather shoulder holster under

Albright's arm with the muzzle of the pistol almost reaching

his belt.

Albright pulls another glass from the desk drawer and pours

a fresh one for Easy and fresher one for himself.

Easy nods, proud but polite, and Albright pushes him a glass

of whiskey.

He laughs and takes a healthy swig and Easy takes a drink

too.

He pushes a newspaper across the desk to Easy and Easy holds

it up.

NEWSPAPER

It's the front page with the photograph of the wealthy Todd

Carter and his beautiful bride-to-be... Despite her smile,

there's a sadness in the eyes.

BACK TO SCENE

He rears back in his chair as if expecting a sign of

recognition.

He laughs a conspiratorial, lecher's laugh and Easy allows a

smile.

The insult takes Easy off guard but he should've known.

He pulls out a brown secretary-type wallet and counts out 10

ten-dollar bills into a neat stack next to the whiskey.

Easy eyes the money.   All he has to do is pick it up.

He freshens Easy's drink and Easy eyes the money some more.

Easy takes a drink and looks again at the money.

Stripped down to its dark, naked self, Central Avenue has

drawn a crowd from all over town. Neon glistens off slick

pomade and silk clings to the contours of simmering flesh.

An outrage to police even before the era of Police Chief

Parker's personal crusade, a squad car sits idling while two

dicks in blue manhandle a brother in a grey sharkskin zoot

suit, prodding and whapping with nightsticks, searching for

something -- anything -- because his date is a young white

woman. A few onlookers stand back watching, but since this

white woman is not Daphne Monet, Easy only glances and walks

inside.

Easy sees his fifth white MAN that day in a disheveled but

expensive dark blue suit staggering toward him, reeking of

gin.

Easy looks over to see HATTIE PARSONS, the small, brown-

skinned manager of the place, glaring daggers at the drunk

man while watching the commotion out the window.

Easy starts over toward Hattie and the drunk turns and tries

to grab Easy's arm. But his desperation causes him to trip

and he winds up sitting against the wall.

Easy steps over him and joins Hattie at the window.

She walks over to the cash register of this neighborhood

corner store; and Easy follows, the drunk beckoning him to

bend down to talk as he passes.

Easy pulls out two dollars and Hattie deposits them into the

till.

Heavy FOOTSTEPS are heard pounding down a stairway in the

back of the store and big burly JUNIOR FORNAY lumbers in

with a cigarette hanging from his lips.

Hattie points to the drunk man as he struggles to get to his

feet.

Junior leads the way back up the stairs.

Easy claps him on the shoulder and waves at skinny RITA COOK

who is sitting at a table with five MEN.

Finally, Easy spots a fifty-year-old MAN in an old grey

tweed jacket sitting in a corner at a table by himself.

Looking like the God fearing, all fearing Baptist deacon

that he is -- he is as out of place as a whore in church as

he nervously gazes about the room and massacres a plate of

barbecued ribs.

Easy leans over the counter to the bartender.

Lewis scoops up ice into a small bucket and plops it onto

the bar with two short glasses.

Easy lays a dollar on the counter and carries the set up

over to the corner as he watches...

THE BAND

burn it up.

BACK TO SCENE

Easy stops at Odell's table.

Odell doesn't miss a bite as he scopes the crowd.

Easy looks up to see

DUPREE, a big black man with a wide white grin in a white

suite with blue pinstripes and a ten-gallon hat.

He has her in tow like a toy wagon and she offers a coy

smile. Short and roundish with cherry-brown skin, she leads

with her bosom.

Coretta rests her sloe-eyes on Easy and Odell and the church

going man almost chokes.

Dupree and Coretta settle in.

Dupree laughs, smacking the table so hard it rattles like an

earthquake. And Coretta's smile ignites like a slow fuse

causing Easy to feel it all the way down his spine.

A man with his hair marcelled back swoops in and pulls a

quart of Old Crow from his overcoat and sits it on the

table.

Easy reaches for his wallet but Dupree beats him to it.

Coretta frowns at Dupree as Easy counts out three dollars.

And he peels off a dollar and hands it off.

Odell shakes his head "no," and Coretta looks away as if

insulted leaving silence until

He squeezes his woman in close and Coretta softens up and

burns that smile again.

Easy grins and nods "congratulations."

It's less than a quarter full now because it's three hours

later.

BACK TO SCENE

John's is only half full and the band is gone. The jukebox

echoes Lena Horne's "Prisoner of Love" and Dupree leans back

in his chair, snoring -- mouth wide open.

Odell gets up and starts to amble off.

Concentrating totally on keeping his balance, Odell waves

feebly without looking back.

Easy is droopy-eyed from the booze but Coretta just looks a

little sexier. She straightens Dupree's hat on his head and

twists up her nose.

She levels her perpetual "come on" onto Easy and he nods

sluggishly and lifts himself to his feet.

She slides her hand inside her blouse and discreetly lifts

her bodice to air her breasts.

He turns to go.

Easy turns and Coretta plays with the ice in her glass.

Coretta leans back and fans her bosom.

Easy struggles with Dupree, and Coretta gives him a hand as

they drag him from Easy's car to her front door, the big

man's feet plowing two deep furrows in the lawn.

Coretta pushes the door open and Easy hauls him in.

Easy pulls and pushes Dupree's dead weight into

THE BEDROOM

Finally Easy manages to pile Dupree onto the bed and then

stands up panting and sweating.

Coretta leads him out into

Coretta shines her hazel eyes on him.

Easy grins nervously and clears his throat.

Coretta strolls up to Easy, pressing her body against his.

She undoes a button on his shirt and kisses his chest, and

unbuttons another working her way down. Easy sweats harder

than when he was lifting Dupree.

ON THE SOFA - MINUTES LATER

The top of her dress undone, Coretta is straddling Easy who

is hitting her spot and his too, in a rhythm. Eyes

closed, he bites his lip to hold in the ecstasy so as not to

awaken Dupree, who is sawing logs -- shredding 'em -- in the

bedroom.

Suddenly Coretta tears herself off of him and sits back on

his knees. Easy writhes and shakes like a power line

shorting out.

Easy tries to pull her back but she twists down to the

floor.

She shushes him with a finger and twists her head toward the

bedroom.

Coretta quiets him again and he comes back to his senses.

He pulls her toward him but she pushes him away.

Frustrated, he sits back against the sofa and Coretta,

sensing that he is snapping out of her spell, slides forward

onto him giving him her spot again. And within moments

they are back at it.

The sky is light purple as Easy stumbles down Coretta's

porch. She waves half-heartedly and closes the door as he

straightens his clothes and looks around for any "witnesses"

on his way to his car.

Easy's Pontiac pulls to a stop in front and he gets out.

Golden morning light streams in through the window.

Outside, a dog is barking at a bird on the fence.

Coffee percolates on the stove and Easy walks over and pours

himself a cup. He moves to the breakfast table and sits

down by the window looking out onto the street as he opens

up a blue envelope in a stack of mail.

Gradually he begins to silently mouth the words and sits up,

his eyes getting bigger until he finds himself reading

aloud.

Easy waters his lawn in deep thought.

FLASHBACK:

A younger Easy is driving, his hair greased up high in a

pompadour with a pencil line moustache framing his top lip.

A man in a wide brim Homburg hat looks away out the

passenger window.

The drone of the engine takes us

A TRUCK with a whole family's belongings tied down onto a

flatbed rolls up. A WOMAN and a bunch of KIDS fill up the

cab.

She waves and keeps on trucking.

He watches her wistfully and then catches sight of

THE WOODCUTTER across the street in a neighbor's front yard,

axe in hand, about to swing on a lemon tree.

He picks up a rock and throws it, and then chucks another

sending the scruffy vagabond wheeling his barrow off down

the street.

Easy shuts off the water and walks back up on his porch.    He

picks up a glass of lemonade that sits at the foot of a

chair on top of

A NEWSPAPER

A front page heading reads "CARTER'S WITHDRAWAL LEAVES TERAN

ON TOP." Below it

A PHOTOGRAPH of a smiling Matthew Teran, with lips too thick

for a white man, getting out of a limousine.

LATER - NIGHT

Easy is asleep on the porch. Finally, he wakes up to the

ringing and heads into the house.

Easy flops on the bed and lifts the phone off a cherry wood

nightstand.

Easy braces himself as five of Herman's FRIENDS rush over,

including one built like a football player.

Football gets right in Easy's face.

A couple of the other boys have picked up sticks and are

surrounding Easy against the rail.

Easy sees Albright's Panama hat appear behind Football.

And he whirls around to Albright's smiling face, just in

time to see him pull that rifle-like pistol from inside his

coat, leveling it at his eyes.

Albright cocks the hammer. It sounds like a bone breaking,

and Barbara starts crying in her sister's arms.

Easy nods but Albright is not satisfied.

Football starts crying.

He presses the barrel to the boy's forehead and Football

goes down to his knees. The other young men look on in

horror.

THUNK! He slaps the barrel of the pistol into the side of

the boy's head. Football screams and the others scatter.

THUNK!   He smacks him again, and blood is everywhere.

Football manages to stagger to his feet and stumbles away

into the darkness back out toward the parking lot.

back into the holster.

He claps Easy on the back as if it's all been in fun and

giggles like a kid on his way toward the hamburger stand.

Easy looks at him numbly and tags alongside, clutching his

anger in tightly clenched jaws.

Albright doesn't break stride.

Easy exhales, feeling trapped, but he's come this far...

Albright stops; the charm gone, he's all business.

Albright scribbles it down on a note pad.

Albright is unable to suppress a smile.

Albright, still grinning, pulls out the brown "secretary"

and counts out more bills.

He shoves the money into Easy's hand.

He starts into the screen door of the hamburger stand but

Easy declines.

For some reason this is hilarious to Albright. He throws

his head back and wheezes out an almost silent belly laugh,

then winds down.

He disappears into the hamburger joint and Easy walks away

back toward his car.

Easy pulls in front of his house and notices a dark Ford

parked across the street as he gets out of his car.

A tall, skinny white MAN in a dark blue suit gets out just

ahead of his slightly shorter and heavyset FRIEND.

Easy watches them as he moves toward his walkway.

They approach fast but cautiously, the fat one with a hand

in his pocket.

They both hold out badges. Mason is a slob with grease

spots on his wrinkled tan suit.

And he takes Easy by the arm.

And he starts pulling Easy toward the street.

WHOMP! Easy takes one to the diaphragm, and as he doubles

over the fat detective slips the handcuffs on behind his

back.

The two cops drag Easy to the car and dump him into the back

seat where he lies gagging as the car whisks away.

Easy's head sags down as he's dragged through the front door

past blurred blue bodies that talk.

A door opens and Easy finds himself being flung inside.

On his knees he hears the door close and looks up at a

single, bare wooden chair resting on the corroded linoleum

floor.

He crawls to one of the urine-stained corners, and looks down

on a dry, flat corpse of a mouse. He pushes his shoulder

against the unpainted plaster until he's standing and then

stumbles over to the chair and sits. He looks up at the

bare pipes that run along the ceiling, dripping water, and

at a window with criss-cross chairs instead of glass framing,

overgrown branches and leaves pushing their way in.

THE DOOR opens and Miller comes in first carrying a

notebook.

Mason follows and closes the door.

Miller motions to Mason and he removes the cuffs.

He plants his foot in Easy's chest and pushes him over

backwards.

Easy has caught himself and stands back up.

WHOCK! Easy takes a fist to the ear and struggles to keep

his balance, wiping away blood streaming down.

Mason moves again but this time Easy turns to face him and

the fat man looks back with an innocent face, his palms

turned up.

Mason has taken off his shoe and is swatting it against the

palm of his hand.

Miller and Mason glance at each other, and Mason kicks the

chair over toward Easy.

But he sits down anyway.

Easy's face goes sick...

Easy is too stunned to answer.

Easy stares into space, answering in barely a whisper.

CHOONK! CHOONK! Mason fires off two punches and Easy grabs

his wrists and pulls him down to the floor, swinging around,

straddling Mason sitting on his ass...

Miller's police special presses into Easy's temple and

Miller speaks to him quietly, deadly.

Easy raises his hands and uncoils to his feet, backing away

cautiously.

Mason is winded and furious.

He gets to his feet and reaches for his gun, but Miller

stops his hand.

He pushes Mason toward the door.

They exit the door and Easy rubs at his bloody ear.

Easy walks down the steps of the station buttoning up his

top shirt button, his hand cupped to his aching ear to keep

out the chill of the night air.

The street is dark and deserted like a giant black alley

except for the black and white patrol car that sits at the

curb. A taut-faced officer leans out the window.

Easy walks across the street off into the darkness...

A snatch of MUSIC and LAUGHTER startles Easy as he trudges

home and a car full of teenagers shoots by. And then...

A BLACK CADILLAC LIMOUSINE

cruises up behind and drives alongside.

The window rolls down all the way and a white face in a

black cap appears in the window.

Easy keeps walking.

He doubles his pace, almost running.

Easy cuts behind the limo and into the street headed for the

other side of the bridge but

The Cadillac whips a U-turn blocking his way in the middle

of the street while cars pass, honking, on either side. The

tall angular chauffeur gets out of the car and holds up his

hands as if making peace.

Easy starts to make another move to escape but:

He opens the back door and after a few moments, Easy gets

in.

Easy settles into the seat with his back to the driver.

Edith Piaf's "Parles Moi D'Amour" adds sugar to the strong

smell of cologne and the portly form of Matthew Teran sits

across from him with a small MEXICAN BOY in pajamas seated

next to him holding a small elephant.

He opens his gold cigarette case and offers Easy a

cigarette. Easy accepts and Teran lights them both up.

Easy begins to feel nauseous.

He sits back in his seat self righteously and offers a nod

of assurance and awaits Easy's gratitude... Then after a

moment...

Teran's face sags with disappointment and then...

The little boy stares up at Easy through big, dark almond-

shaped eyes in the silence that follows. And then, Teran

picks up the ivory horn that hangs next to his head.

The limousine stops and Easy pushes the door open and gets

out.

Teran's stubby fingers hold out crumpled bills.

Easy closes the door and watches the long Cadillac glide

away.

The room is a mess; trousers strewn here, shirt and shoes

over there. And from the corners are haunting, ghostly

whispers.

A PINT OF BOURBON, 3/4 full, sits atop the cherry wood

nightstand. Another empty bottle lies next to it on its

side, in front of a water glass with 1/2 inch of liquor at

the bottom.

EASY'S HEAD rests on a pillow on the bed behind it,

sweating, tossing and turning as the ghost gets louder.

The voice of the ghost is reaching closer for his ear.

The voice is right up in his face.

SCREAM. He jerks up, awake, and the phone is RINGING.    It

jingles a couple more times and Easy almost knocks the

receiver out of its cradle reaching for it.

He sits straight up.

A pause on the line.

Another pause.

Easy holds his hands up, helplessly -- "what do you want

from me?" -- but no one can see and she has hung up the

phone.

It's a Spanish-style set of rooms with tile roofs set around

a square parking lot.

Easy's car pulls into the alley behind it.

He gets out and scans the area looking down from a rise at

the back entrance to the parking lot. And then walks down.

Before Easy can knock, he hears:

The door opens and she's standing there, more beautiful than

the photograph. They take each other in for a moment before

she steps back from the door.

It's a regular drab, cheap motel that she has given a warmer

touch with colorful scarves draped over the two lamps.

She indicates a pint of scotch on the dresser with an empty

glass and one that she's been drinking from.

She indicates the chair.

She's wearing a blue dress that's plain, cutting just below

her knee with a ceramic pin just over her left breast.

Easy stubs out his cigarette in an ashtray and sits down.

She sits down too, her calm but brittle exterior betrayed at

the hands. She stops wringing them when she sees that he

notices and takes a drink -- more medicine than pleasure.

She lights a cigarette.

She takes another drink and stubs out her cigarette though

it's less than a third gone.

She gets up and starts to pace nervously about the room.

That stops Easy.

She hates herself for threatening and decides to change

direction, moving in close.

She moves in closer, massaging with her voice.

Her eyes make an offer, but he's a better man than me and

he's not taking.

She walks away and turns up her glass, her desperation, raw,

unguarded.

He starts out and she runs to stop him.

He opens it and

SCREAM!   Like an alarm, she's SHRIEKING all of the scale.

LIGHTS GOING ON in other rooms.

He looks back frantically and grabs her by the shoulders.

She pulls on a coat and grabs her purse.

She grabs an already packed suitcase and is out the door.

Easy's Pontiac snakes up the winding road, city lights

glimmering in flashes below as it rounds the curves.

Ben Webster's "I've   Got It Bad" plays on the road as Easy

shifts nervously in   his seat, his eyes searching in the

rearview mirror and   all around for headlights that might be

unfriendly. Daphne    leans back against the passenger door,

taking him in.

Easy passes a police car pulled over to the side.

He looks in the rearview mirror and its headlights go on.

He takes a deep breath, bracing for the worst and Daphne

looks back concerned.

But the lights arch a U-turn and head back the other way.

She catches herself and looks over at Easy.

Easy keeps his eyes on the road.

She tries to touch his arm and he pulls away.

The Studebaker is parked at a deadend in the street.    Easy

pulls in behind.

The cabin is so overgrown with ivy that all this is visible

is the mailbox and address.

She gets out of the car.

He frowns and gets out of the car.

Daphne waits, clutching her suitcase and lets Easy lead the

way.

They get to the door and find it ajar.    Easy takes a look

inside and then cautiously steps in.

He flicks on the wall switch. It's a typical little

hideaway that the rich kept for summer use. The living

room, dining room, and kitchen are all in one with a long

counter separating the kitchen.

On the left is a wooden couch with a Mexican rug thrown

across it and a metal chair with tan cushions for the seat

and back. The opposite wall is all glass with the city

lights blinking in the distance.

No answer.   Easy leads them to a door and opens it.

Another wall of glass and

A DEAD MAN spread out on the king-sized bed, with the

contents of the dresser and closet strewn all over the room.

She gags and backs out of the room with her hand over her

mouth in case she throws up.

Easy takes out a handkerchief and holds it over his mouth

and nose as he gets a closer look at the body.

It's the drunk white man he had seen at John's Speakeasy in

the same blue suit. He's lying on his back like a crucifix

with a butcher knife buried in his chest. There's blood

that has drained from his chest and gathered around his face

and hair so dark and thick you could scoop it up like Jello.

Easy actually does throw up and doubles over, dropping to a

knee to keep his balance and some control. He stays there

for several moments regaining his composure and then spots a

spilled ashtray and a cigarette butt. He lifts it off the

floor and smells it. He wipes his mouth with the

handkerchief and then wraps the butt inside and puts it in

his pocket. He gets up.

He hears a CAR ENGINE start up and GEARS SHIFTING.     Then

runs out the door.

A pink Studebaker whips backward out the driveway. Easy

runs alongside trying to stop Daphne as she screeches into

the street.

She speeds off down the canyon.

He stands in the middle of the street, watching her go.

Fiery orange light bounces off the hood of the car into

Easy's face as he turns the corner onto his block. He is

surprised to see

A WHITE CADILLAC parked in front of his house.      And now it's

his front door that's open.

BACK TO EASY

He pulls in behind the Caddy and gets out.

He pushes open the door. Shariff loiters just inside,

grinning at him, and Manny stands in the middle of the

living room looking at the floor. From a RADIO in another

room Tommy Dorsey plays "Blue Skies" with Frank Sinatra out

front. And so Easy walks past the two hoods into

THE KITCHEN

Albright turns from looking out the backyard window with a

porcelain coffee cup cradled in his right hand.

Easy looks at the coffee pot on the stove and again at

Albright, smiling loose and friendly but looking tired in

the same clothes he had on at the pier.

Easy boils inside and then goes over to the counter to pour

himself a cup of coffee.

The smile leaves Albright's face and his eyes turn even

colder.

Easy is scared and confused but he plays it off.

And he reaches for his pocket, but Albright reaches too --

and suddenly, Manny and Shariff are in the room and on Easy

like a vice. Albright presses the barrel of the .45 against

Easy's forehead.

Easy looks down, away from the gun, and swallows hard.

After a moment, everyone relaxes and Easy sags out from

under their grip and staggers into

Manny and Shariff surround him as he sits down in a chair

and Albright stalks in holstering his gun.

Albright looks over at his henchmen.

Albright looks around the room as if answers lie in the

corners, but he is not surprised to hear about a body.

Easy hesitates, "How did Albright know his name?"

To his shame Easy flinches and gets paper from his end

table, then scribbles down the address and hands it to

Albright who takes Easy's seat and examines the note.

Easy studies Albright who sits knees wide apart, now the

master of the house, and he can't help himself.

Albright looks up and Easy braces himself for Albright to

bring on the end, all at once. But slowly a smile spreads

across Albright's face and he laughs, stamping his foot.

Manny brings Albright's drink and the captain turns it up

and gives Manny back the glass.

He walks out the screen door with Manny and Shariff

following.

Easy grabs the bottle from the counter, where Manny has left

it, and pours himself a stiff one. But he only stares into

the glass.

FLASHBACK:

Dense black smoke masks everything but two vague figures in

a struggle. The BOOM of heavy artillery gives way only to

the deafening CHATTER of automatic fire.

We are hurtling forward into a horror-stricken Easy in

combat gear, repeatedly stabbing an already lifeless German

soldier. Tears are streaming down Easy's face, his mouth

gaped open in an inaudible SCREAM.

He studies the glass and pushes it away.   Then looks

An ELDERLY SECRETARY descends an outdoor curved stairway

carrying a file. She spots Easy looking around confused and

immediately becomes annoyed.

Easy pulls out Albright's business card and hands it to her.

She looks at the card and then up at Easy with annoyed

superiority.

Easy and the secretary turn to see a TALL MAN in a dark grey

suit with bushy black hair and thick eyebrows standing in

the doorway. He forces a smile and comes out.

He holds out his hand and Easy shakes it.

They walk through the door into

Baxter bristles up and slows down his walk, about to put

Easy in his place. But Easy slows down too and squares up

on him. Baxter reconsiders and leads the way up a stone

staircase.

Baxter ushers Easy into a huge elegantly furnished room more

closely resembling a hall than an office with large arched

doors and windows leading out onto a stone veranda

overlooking a canyon.

Alone looking out at the greenery on the opposite hillside

is TODD CARTER.

Baxter walks out and speaks with Carter, while Easy watches

them from inside the office. The rich man perks up with

interest and hurries inside with Baxter who throws Easy a

dirty look on his way out. He pauses uncertainly wearing a

simple Sears Roebuck-looking tan suit with a plain open-

collared white shirt. The dark circles under his eyes show

nights without sleep.

He runs a hand through his thinning red hair, and offers an

overstuffed sofa. They sit on either end.

He points to a crystal decanter near Easy. Easy pours

himself a drink and takes in Carter as he wrings his hands

to keep from going to pieces. This guy's got it bad.

Carter runs his hand through his hair again, the suspense

killing him.

Carter leans in as if he missed something.

Easy and Carter stare at each other, not sure how to

proceed.

Easy nods, his brow furrowed in thought. Carter gets up and

walks to the door, looking out into the canyon.

Carter shrugs and stammers nervously.

He stops and looks to the floor, the gravity pulling him

down... way down.

He's lying and Easy knows it.

Easy thinks about it, and then nods.

Carter is too emphatic and Easy waits for him to give more,

but instead he turns and gazes out again at the canyon.

MONTAGE SEQUENCE:

Easy talks to the short, squat, suspicious woman who runs

the place. Through the smoke, other distrustful eyes fix on

him from pool tables and dark corners.

Upscale, with a balcony. Billy Eckstine fronts the band.

Blacks and whites are dressed to impress, including Easy,

who leans into the bartender.

The two JEWISH OWNERS unveil for Easy a case of hijacked

liquor in a wooden crate.

Easy unlatches the gate and pushes it open. He's tired, and

he trudges up the walkway to the porch. He sees

THE WOODCUTTER standing on the front lawn of the next door

neighbor's, waving at him.

BACK TO EASY

He throws a rock and then unlocks the door. But he notices

THE POT OF AFRICAN VIOLETS lying broken on the cement. He

looks up just in time to see a TWO-BY-FOUR swing down.

BONK! And Easy is seeing stars.

A big man, dressed in black, kicks open the door and drives

Easy head first into

Easy slams to the floor but manages to roll out of the way

of a lethal CRACK! of the board onto the floor.

He grabs a lamp and hurls it at the oncoming figure who

catches it on the arm and keeps on coming, snapping a blade

from his fist which leaps out like a chrome-colored flame.

Easy scrambles back, his head butting up against the couch,

his forehead streaming blood, his eyes wide with the sight

of sure death advancing.

Frank looms over him, his   sinister but handsome brown face

framed by a short-rimmed,   black Stetson hat and a black

shirt and coat. He holds    the knife to Easy's neck, letting the

blade press into the skin   as he talks.

Easy buries himself back against the sofa.

Frank's eyes flame and he presses the knife, drawing blood.

WHAP!   WHAP!   WHAP!

Frank's head whips toward the door and Easy knocks the knife

away and comes up tussling.

Frank scrambles to get away and Easy tackles him, straining

to keep Frank from reaching the knife.

THE FRONT DOOR springs open and SPATS ON PATENT LEATHER

SHOES clump in, the last one stomping down on Frank's

outstretched fingers. Frank screams and cradles his hand in

agony.

Easy scrambles up to his knees and gawks up at

MOUSE, dressed in a plaid zoot suit with Broadway suspenders

down the front of his shirt, a long-barreled .41 caliber

pistol held loosely in his hand.

He holds out his hand and helps Easy to his feet.

Frank makes a slight move towards the knife and Mouse levels

the pistol at his head, his gold-rimmed teeth glittering

from a smile that wants Frank to go for it.

Frank just stares up at Easy, his eyes sharp and defiant.

After a moment, Mouse cocks the hammer.

The phone RINGS next to Mouse and he picks it up, eyes still

on Frank.

He hangs up.

Frank still won't talk and that does it for Mouse.   He

releases the hammer.

THUNK!   He slaps Frank upside the head with the pistol.

Easy grabs Mouse's arm and Frank slumps to the floor.

The two friends struggle, and Frank rears up and plows into

Easy, sending him sprawling to the floor on top of Mouse.

Then Frank, covered in blood, hurls himself across the room,

out the door.

pistol, but it's too late. Easy stands up and Mouse points the

gun at him.

Easy silently eyes the pistol and gives Mouse a chance to

calm down. After a moment Mouse looks down at his jacket.

He looks out the door and grabs a small suitcase. Then

spots the bathroom and moves to it, taking off his jacket

and hanging the pistol in his belt.

Easy holds his fingers to the bump on his forehead and

catches his breath as Mouse runs water in the bathtub.

Mouse comes out of the bathroom, scrubbing at a spot on his

jacket with a washcloth.

Easy glares at Mouse and dabs blood from his forehead with a

handkerchief.

He ambles over to Easy apologetically and holds Easy's

shoulders with both hands.

Easy knows he can't believe this but

With no choice, Easy nods and walks into

He runs cold water onto a washcloth and looks in the mirror,

dabbing at his forehead.

Easy turns toward the door "Aw Man!"

Mouse, in a plum colored double-breasted suit and a brown

felt derby hat, turns on the radio and the Ink Spots' "We'll

Meet Again" purrs out. He starts to turn the key, but then

remembers and honks the horn.

Easy opens the door and stands on the porch.

Just then a car cruises around the corner and Easy watches

MASON AND MILLER pull up across the street and get out. He

glances over at Mouse.

Mouse shuts off the radio and slumps down in the seat out of

view.

Easy watches them stroll up the walkway.

And Easy and Miller go in.

He laughs and closes the door behind them.

Miller looks around suspiciously. The room still shows

signs of the struggle with Frank Green. He exchanges a look

with Mason.

Mason pushes Easy into the chair and Miller plants his foot

on the seat between Easy's legs and leans in.

On the other side of the room Mason picks up a chunk of the

broken lamp from the fight.

Mason comes over and stands over Easy next to his partner.

He fingers the sharp porcelain shard of the lamp,

threatening.

Easy eyes the sharp edge, making up his mind to kill this

fat son-of-a-bitch if he gets too creative, and die with

him.

He holds the slip of paper up for Easy to see.

Miller stands back and pats his pockets for a smoke.

Easy taps out one and Miller places it in his mouth.

Easy pulls out his lighter and sparks the flame.

Easy shrugs and passes the lighter to Miller who fires

himself up.

He holds the lighter out of Mason who wraps it up in a

handkerchief.

And Miller leans in hard.

He straightens up and Easy stands up, too.

As Mason reaches for the cuffs, Easy sees Mouse peek out

from the kitchen doorway then disappear inside.

He sees Mouse draw his gun, his eyes trained on Miller's

back.

Mouse is trained with the hammer cocked and Easy is about to

give the signal, but then:

Miller thinks about it and then--

The door opens and JUNIOR FORNAY stands there behind the

screen door in blue boxer shorts and a white T-shirt.

And he reaches to pull open the door, but Junior throws the

latch.

Mouse steps out into the doorway, in plain view.

Junior forces a smile and lets them in.

Filthy and junky, with old car parts scattered amongst old

furniture, the room is unpleasant with only the benefit of a

dim light -- just like Junior.

He nods at a card table with one folding chair and throws

two others into place on his way to the refrigerator.

Easy and Mouse sit down and Junior brings over a quart of

PABST BLUE RIBBON BEER and two glasses that he wipes out

with a rag.

Junior tosses his pack onto the table and pours beer into

the glasses for Easy and Mouse, and drinks from the bottle.

Easy unfolds the handkerchief in his pocket on the table,

uncovering the cigarette butt from Richard McGee's house.

Junior looks at the butt and shrugs.

And he stands up to emphasize his indignation.

Junior shifts awkwardly from side to side and then sits back

down.

Mouse can't keep from laughing and Junior starts up after

Easy.

But Mouse is up, still laughing with the pistol in his hand.

Junior sits down and throws himself around in the chair like

a child throwing a fit.

Mouse slaps the table, laughing so hard he's in tears.

And he aims the pistol and cocks the hammer, causing Junior

to throw himself around some more.

SILENCE. But it's in the open now and Junior frowns and

shakes his head.

Mouse is busy working a toothpick between his front teeth.

Easy is stopped for a moment.

Easy and Mouse pull into    the gravel driveway of a little

house and are met by the    usual barking dog you find in the

country -- part Spaniel,    part Shepherd, and some kind of

Retriever. It dogs Easy     and Mouse's heels as they get out

of the car.

They notice the light in the front window go out and the

shade pull back slightly as they walk toward the front door.

Moments later the door opens and the dark figure of Dupree

Brouchard appears.

The dog obeys and Easy and Mouse walk up the walkway.

Dupree ushers them in.

Dupree's face under the kitchen light shows two swollen

black eyes from a brutal police "questioning." His eyes are

heavy with liquor and tears glisten down his cheeks.

Dupree pours rye whiskey into a water glass in front of

Mouse, who swallows half the shot without looking up from

his plate of food.

Easy declines when the bottle comes his way, feeling the

pressure of time running out.

Easy rears back in his chair with keen interest and Mouse

looks up from his pigtails.

Dupree takes a drink and his eyes narrow in anger.

He buries his face into his hands and Easy throws a sad but

frustrated look to Mouse.

