PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                              8.

Anna is pouring two glasses of sherry. Helen is peeling

potatoes. Anna peers at Helen... and sees tears. They

share a moment of stifled emotion. Helen wipes her eyes

with her sleeve.

They look at each other and giggle. They both have potato

peelers in their wet hands, sleeves rolled up, two practical

unsentimental women being almost consumed by the same wave

of emotion.

We hear a gruff Russian voice calling out from the living

room (UNCLE STEPAN).

Anna and Helen roll their eyes.

Anna drops her peeler and hurries into the living room.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                              9.

The living room table is laid for dinner. Uncle Stepan is

early seventies, Russian. He is reading the tiny diary

that Anna found in Tatiana's bag. Anna breezes in.

Stepan grumbles, accustomed to this teasing.

Helen enters carrying a bowl of walnuts and brazil nuts

which she places on the table.

Pause.   Stepan looks pointedly at Helen.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             10.

Stepan lays the diary aside, obstinate and prim.

Stepan leaves in a huff. Anna picks up the diary and begins

to study it. She sees the `Trans-Siberian' business card

between the pages.

Helen looks at Anna, suspecting an attempt to escape.

Driving music as we see Anna riding her motorbike through

deserted morning streets again. We should begin to sense

that this is a kind of release for her. We hear Tatiana

in V.O.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                               11.

Anna arrives outside the `Trans-Siberian' restaurant. It

has a Russian-themed frontage in blue and gold, expensively

and recently finished.

As Anna pulls up we hear a dog begin to bark.

The side door opens to reveal a hard-looking, handsome

Russian man (NIKOLAI), who stops to groom his hair back

from his face and put on a pair of sunglasses as he emerges

into daylight. He steps into a small courtyard, where a

fierce Doberman dog is barking and snarling on the end of

a chain.

Nikolai is followed by KIRILL, who is a little younger,

slim and pretty but hard-looking too. Kirill is dressed in

a crumpled T-shirt and jeans and looks like he had a heavy

night. Nikolai ignores the dog as he walks by but Kirill

yells at it and teases it with a whoop and few Russian

curses. Nikolai unbolts the gate to the street.

He glances back at the restaurant and speaks softly.

Kirill grins and Nikolai flicks the fob of his car keys.

The lights on an expensive black Mercedes glow in response.

Kirill notices Anna locking up her bike at the front of

the restaurant.

PINK Revision    -     11/12/06                             12.

They both see Anna removing her crash helmet and shaking

out her hair. She walks towards the front door.

Kirill sees that Nikolai is studying Anna and his grin

fades. We sense jealousy.

Kirill grabs Nikolai's face to distract him, gives him a

playful slap, but there is somehow more to it than

playfulness. Nikolai gets into his car.

Kirill glares at Anna as she approaches the front of the

restaurant.

As Nikolai drives away, Anna rings the doorbell beside the

front door. There is no reply. She is about to ring again

when the door opens. We see SEMYON, a Russian man in his

late sixties. He is wiping his hands on a tea towel,

dressed in a spotlessly white apron. He has the sparkling

piercing eyes of a falcon.

She fumbles in her bag.

Anna produces her hospital ID and shows it to Semyon.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                             13.

Semyon studies the name on the ID.

Semyon seems suddenly delighted.

The tables are set for a huge party. Kirill is now on

step ladders, fixing some Christmas decorations. Other

relatives are getting the place ready. Semyon hurries

through the restaurant, leading Anna by the hand.

Kirill follows Anna's progress through the restaurant with

a glare.

BLUE Revision   -   11/4/06                           13A.

There are three little girls in extravagant party frocks,

all holding violins and giggling near to the door that

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                              14.

leads to the kitchen. Semyon stops when he reaches them

and puts his hands on his hips.

Semyon grabs a violin and plays a three-second burst of

sad Russian violin music.

Semyon hurries on into the kitchen.    Anna smiles, delighted

at the eccentric old man.

Inside the kitchen there is an inferno of activity, steam,

smoke. Family members, some dressed in their party outfits,

others in chefs' uniforms, are standing over steaming pots,

laughing, arguing. Children play and yell. You can almost

smell Christmas. Anna enters, dazzled by it all,

overwhelmed by the contrast to her own lifeless Christmas

kitchen. Semyon calls out to everyone.

Anna reaches into her pocket and produces the `Trans-

Siberian' business card she found in Tatiana's bag. Semyon

angles his head to look as he stirs.

Semyon offers Anna a spoonful of his gravy.    She sips it.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             15.

Semyon shrugs and smiles, his eyes twinkling, then goes

back to stirring. He speaks as if unconcerned.

Nikolai's black Mercedes pulls up outside the restaurant

and parks a few inches from Anna's motorbike. The rear

windows are sun shaded so we only see Nikolai in the

driver's seat.   He gets out of the car and opens the rear

door of the car for an elegantly dressed Turkish lady in

her fifties. Nikolai goes to the other rear door. The

portly figure of Ozim the barber emerges. As Ozim gets out

he gives Nikolai a fifty-pound note.

Two of the little girl violinists are fighting, pulling

each other's hair. The third is sobbing, sitting on the

floor. A young woman in a party dress is carrying a huge

silver bowl of sauce across the kitchen.

Anna looks delighted at the noise and energy of the place.

Finally Semyon emerges from a cloud of steam with a scrap

of paper.

As Anna takes the address, Kirill puts his head around

the door and yells through the noise.

Semyon is alarmed and claps his hand in urgent fashion.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                                   16.

Semyon takes a pot from the heat, suddenly flustered.

There is the tiniest of changes in Semyon's manner.        He

lays his heavy pot down.

A pause. Semyon disappears into a billow of steam to put

a pan onto the heat then re-emerges.

He peers at her for a moment, his eyes hardening a little.

Semyon hoists a passing child into his arms.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                             17.

Anna is a little overwhelmed.

Semyon shrugs then kisses Anna on both cheeks.

Anna heads for the door that leads back to the restaurant.

Semyon goes back to stirring but as he stirs he calls out.

A pause before Anna leaves Semyon to his clouds of steam.

Kirill and Ozim are talking confidentially in a mix of

Russian and Turkish whispers at a table. Ozim's wife is

at a table alone, well out of their earshot, smoking a

cigarette and peeling glazed figs. As Anna walks by, Ozim

and Kirill stop talking. The scene has a much darker mood

to the bustling scene in the kitchen, but for now Anna

feels no unease. As she passes, Kirill surveys her with a

deadly smile and a professional eye.

As Anna smiles, Ozim mumbles something in Turkish and Kirill

shushes him.

PINK Revision      -   11/12/06                              18.

Ozim giggles.      Anna departs.

Anna emerges into the daylight. As she does she sees that

four expensive-looking cars have already parked and various

ostentatiously dressed Russian and Turkish couples with

their children are emerging from their cars. The women are

all wearing furs, even the little girls. The men wear

leather or dark suits. They greet each other exuberantly

as they emerge from their cars. Anna suddenly feels

slightly uneasy. As she approaches her motorbike she sees

Nikolai leaning against the bonnet of his car, smoking,

still wearing shades. His bumper is almost touching Anna's

bike.

Anna has already taken a dislike to this man. He is

arrogant and looks potentially violent. His shades, suit

and tattoos say it all.

Nikolai rolls the concept around in his mind and considers.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             18A.

Anna puts her helmet on.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                             19.

Anna mounts her bike.

Nikolai smiles.

Anna now feels intimidated and luckily the bike fires first

time. She rides away. Nikolai watches her go and then

stubs his cigarette.

Sudden silence... perhaps the ticking of a clock. This is

Anna's Christmas dinner, a total contrast to the chaos of

the restaurant. Stepan is attempting to carve the chicken.

Stepan takes a large sip of vodka.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                              20.

A pause.     Stepan sips his vodka.

Anna slams her napkin onto the table.

Helen takes Anna's hand but she turns and leaves. Helen

stands to follow her, but first she whips Stepan's vodka

away from him.

The garden is just outside the kitchen.

Anna is lighting a cigarette. Helen steps outside and

reacts to the cigarette. She is about to admonish Anna

for smoking, but Anna speaks first.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                               21.

A pause.     Anna blows smoke, clearly upset.

Helen reacts.

Anna smiles as if in agreement.

Anna coughs a little then stubs her cigarette.        Helen takes

the butt as if it were poisonous.

Helen touches her hand.      An inadequate gesture.

GOLDENROD Revision    -   11/27/06                       22A.

Kirill glances over at Semyon, who is apparently lost

amongst a sea of children, but we see from the corner of

his eye he is watching Kirill.

GREEN Revision   -   11/24/06                            23.

Kirill cuts the call and nods to Ozim, who stubs his cigar.

Semyon notices their silent communication, then turns to

one of the violin-playing angels, smiles, and kisses her

on both cheeks.

We see the car pull up sharply outside Ozim's barber's

shop. Nikolai jumps out and opens the door for Ozim.

The three men walk to the door beside the barber shop.

Ozim takes a bunch of keys out and prepares to open the

door to the upstairs. He stops.

Kirill smiles and shakes his head.

Kirill puts his hand on Nikolai's shoulder

Ozim looks at Nikolai, highly dubious.

BLUE Revision   -   11/4/06                               24.

The rooms above Ozim's shop have been converted into a

drinking club. Ozim leads Nikolai and Kirill through the

debris of the night before. As they walk through, Ekrem

suddenly leaps out of the darkness with a yell. Kirill

and Nikolai both react with instinctive aggression.

Ekrem nods and hugs Ozim. We realize he is slightly

deranged. Finally he lets Ozim go and leaves. Kirill

watches him go.

Ozim finds the key to the kitchen.

Ozim opens the kitchen door.

Inside the kitchen there are carcasses of lambs hanging

from meat hooks. There are knives and skewers around the

place. Ozim stops and locks the kitchen door behind them.

The freezer door opens and Ozim gestures towards a large

package bound up in black bin liners which are dusted with

frost. Kirill nods to Nikolai who grabs the package and

hauls it out onto the kitchen floor. Kirill tears a hole

in the bin liner and we see the frost-dusted face of Soyka.

BLUE Revision     -   11/4/06                                 25.

Kirill studies the face and nods.

Kirill crosses himself.

He puts his hand on his heart with mock solemnity.

Kirill giggles.

Kirill reaches into his pocket and produces an envelope

which he hands to Ozim. As Ozim opens the envelope and

begins to count the huge wad of cash, Kirill turns to

Nikolai.

Nikolai squeezes the body inside the bags.       It is rock

hard.

We cut close to an ancient-looking hair dryer from the

shop downstairs being trained onto a human hand with a

large eagle tattoo. We pull wide to reveal the full,

gruesome scene.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                            26.

Nikolai has the body of Soyka laid out on a surface, his

head still bound up in a bin bag, his lower portions bound

up similarly. Nikolai is de-frosting Soyka's left hand

with the hair dryer, concentrating on his ring finger which

has a gold ring on it. The parts of Soyka's shirt and

jacket which are visible are crusted with frozen blood.

Nikolai is wearing rubber gloves.

As he dries, Nikolai takes a sip of coffee. Ozim is

watching this scene with horror. Kirill has his arms

folded, mightily impressed.

Finally the hand is thawed enough for Nikolai to remove

the gold ring. He studies an inscription and then offers

it to Ozim. Ozim shakes his head as if the thing were a

contagion. Nikolai shrugs and pockets it. He then turns

the hair dryer back on and blows some hot air onto the

crisply bloody chest of Soyka. He tugs at the frozen lapel

of the jacket and blows air into the inside pocket. Within

a few moments he is able to remove Soyka's glistening,

thawing wallet which is caked in frozen blood. He opens

it (we glimpse a photo of a wife and children) and blows

hot air onto the money inside.

He tugs a wad of frozen bank notes from the wallet, all

stuck together by drops of frozen blood. He offers this

money to Ozim as well but Ozim shakes his head vigorously.

Kirill hoots with laughter. Ozim is now staring at Nikolai

as if he were a devil from hell.

Nikolai grabs a plastic bag and puts the money inside it,

then pockets the frozen wad. He tosses the rest of the

frozen wallet to Ozim, who instinctively catches it.

Ozim, reacting to the cold of the wallet and to the horror

of it, drops the thing on the floor. Nikolai looks at

Ozim as if he were a complete amateur.

Ozim can't answer.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                               27.

Kirill laughs.    Nikolai takes a deep breath to prepare

himself.

Ozim thinks, decides, leaves fast.   A pause.

Kirill smiles and pats Nikolai on the cheek.

Kirill leaves. Nikolai is left alone. His hand shakes a

little as he picks up his cup of coffee.

Nikolai pulls up beside a rusting crane on the abandoned

dock in a dry-cleaner's van. Kirill watches as Nikolai

grabs the semi-thawed body, now bagged and tied, lifts it

onto his shoulder, and smartly approaches the dockside.

Nikolai drops the body into the water with a splash.

Nikolai and Kirill watch as the body is swallowed by a

fast ocean-bound current.

Anna pulls up at some lights on her motorbike.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                             28.

Semyon sits alone at the dinner table in the restaurant

where before there was family and uproar. Outside it's

dark and raining. He is reading a Russian crime novel. A

half-empty bottle of vodka sits on the table.

Tatiana's voice-over continues as we cut inside the

restaurant.

There is a knock at the door and Semyon looks up sharply.

His eyes glisten. He puts his novel aside.

Semyon is unlocking the door and discovering, in the drizzle

and half light, that it is Anna.

Semyon and Anna are sitting down at the candlelit table.

Anna fumbles in her bag and produces a sheaf of photocopied

sheets. She has photocopied the pages of the diary and

they are laid out in segments on each page.

Semyon takes the pages and looks troubled.

WHITE Revision    -     9/12/06                            29.

Semyon looks thwarted but hides it well. He studies the

photocopied sheets for a while then looks up and smiles.

He folds the papers carefully.

There is nothing in Semyon's smile to cause alarm but Anna

perhaps remembers Nikolai. Finally...

Semyon stares at her for a moment.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                           30.

Semyon doesn't blink. At that moment a little girl of

seven (MARIA) emerges from the darkness, carrying a soft

toy.

Semyon takes her onto his knee. As he does, we see, for

the first time, an eagle tattoo on his wrist.

The girl wafts Semyon's cigar smoke.

Semyon cuddles Maria and stubs his cigar.

Anna smiles at the warm family scene, perhaps remembering

her own father.

Nikolai gets out of the Mercedes and helps an extremely

pissed Kirill out of the car into the rain. Kirill is so

drunk he slips through Nikolai's hands and lands in the

gutter.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                              31.

Nikolai manages to lift him to his feet again. As they

head towards the restaurant, Anna emerges. Nikolai looks

up, curious, as Semyon kisses her on both cheeks in the

doorway. As she turns Kirill stumbles forwards and collapses

in front of her. Nikolai looks up at Anna, his face

splashed with rain.

Semyon looks down at the drunken Kirill and slams the door

of the restaurant. Nikolai sighs, then turns to Kirill

and starts to go through his pockets.

Anna walks around the two of them, watching the undignified

struggle as Nikolai finds Kirill's keys. Nikolai smiles

at her.

Anna hurries away into the rain. Nikolai finds Kirill's

keys and drags him toward the door of the restaurant.

Nikolai heaves Kirill into a chair. Semyon is back at his

novel and watches as Kirill attempts to get to his feet

and then stumbles to the floor. He slumps down, now

totally unconscious, breathing deeply. Nikolai smiles.

Semyon steps up to where Kirill is lying and stands over

him for a moment. Then he kicks him hard in the guts with

all his might. Nikolai is shocked, and grabs Semyon's

arm. A hand laid upon him is like deadly poison. Kirill

grunts and moans.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                               32.

Semyon kicks him hard in the guts again.

Nikolai steps in between Semyon and Kirill. Semyon is

shocked that anyone should face him like this.

Nikolai's face hardens.

Nikolai looks down at Kirill.

Semyon bends to roughly hoist Kirill into a chair.

Nikolai reaches into his pocket for a business card and

offers it to Semyon. As Semyon looks at the card in the

candle light, he also sees the TATTOO OF AN EAGLE on

Nikolai's hand.

It is obvious that the tattoo means more than the card to

Semyon, and he reacts.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             33.

A pause.

A pause.   Semyon looks at Nikolai with utter contempt.

Nikolai smiles and then leaves. Semyon watches him go

then peers at his drunken, sleeping son with something

approaching compassion.

Nikolai hurries   out to his car in the rain. He hears an

engine splutter   and spots Anna still trying to kick-start

her motorbike.    He approaches. She's already soaked.

Nikolai watches   her try to start the bike and fail.

Deadpan, Anna looks up and holds out her hand into pouring

rain.

Anna tries to start the bike again.    Nothing.

Anna tries one more time to start the bike and growls with

fury. Nikolai gently takes her shoulders and after a brief

resistance Anna climbs off the bike. Nikolai sits astride

it. He kicks it. It fails to start. Anna folds her arms.

PINK Revision   -   11/12/06                              33A.

He tries again.     And again.   He climbs off.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                              34.

Anna curses under her breath. Nikolai isn't sure what to

make of her. She begins to chain the bike's rear wheel.

Anna tucks her crash helmet under her arm and prepares to

set off walking.

Nikolai opens the rear car door.

Nikolai holds open the rear car door.       Rain pours.

Nikolai is driving Anna through the rain-swept streets.

The wipers beat time as they drive in silence. As Nikolai

holds the steering wheel, Anna sees the intricate detail

of the eagle tattoo on the back of his right hand.

Anna smiles politely.

A pause.   Nikolai seems vaguely horrified at a memory.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                                35.

Nikolai half shrugs.      Pause.

A long pause.

Nikolai turns.

Nikolai doesn't answer.      Anna decides she can be bold.

Anna doesn't care for the smile on Nikolai's face.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                             36.

Nikolai glances at Anna in the rear-view mirror.

Anna nods, her curiosity and suspicions aroused.     Nikolai

glances at her.

Nikolai pulls over and Anna opens her door to escape.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                            38A.

Anna gets up to grab the diary.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                           39.

Stepan explodes.

Stepan hands the diary to Anna and then turns.

He disappears. Anna and Helen are left in awkward silence.

Anna buries the diary in her dressing table drawer. Helen

looks at her with anxiety.

A pause.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                               40.

Helen is now deeply concerned.

Anna looks at Helen, then digs out the diary and hands it

to her.

Helen is about to leave.       She stops in the doorway.

A pause.   Anna smiles.

We are in HARLESDEN, NORTH LONDON.

A large portable stereo is playing rock music.

The curtains are drawn against daylight. The living room

is decorated in seventies suburban style, but with the

wall paper peeling and the paint work fading. Kitsch

paintings still decorate the walls.

Six young East-European girls are sitting on a broken-down

sofa and on hard-backed chairs, wearing short skirts. Their

eyes are sunken and their faces vacant of expression, but

they are painted with so much make-up they almost look

like tiny, sad clowns.

They sit in silence as the music blares out. After a few

moments a young Albanian man enters and claps his hands.

BLUE Revision    -     11/4/06                             41.

All the girls apart from one immediately get to their feet

and begin to dance to the music, their bodies moving

awkwardly and painfully. The Albanian approaches the one

girl who refused to stand and yanks her to her feet.

He slaps her hard and hisses at her in Albanian. She tries

to sit down again but he pulls her up and slaps her again.

Finally he shoves her into the middle of the room and she

begins to dance, sobbing as she does.

Kirill and Nikolai are climbing out of Nikolai's Mercedes.

Kirill is in full flow as they walk towards the house.

The rock music is audible outside the house.

Kirill knocks on the door hard.

A pause.

The door opens and the Albanian opens his arms in welcome.

WHITE Revision       -    9/12/06                              42.

Kirill pushes his way inside and Nikolai follows.

Kirill and Nikolai are swigging whisky from the bottle and

dancing with the girls. Some of the girls are drinking,

too, and managing to laugh. Kirill is dancing maniacally

and swinging his girl around faster and faster until she

falls over.

Nikolai swigs his drink and notices the girl who refused

to stand up. She is standing in the corner, sobbing.

Nikolai doesn't care to look at her for more than a second

and he goes back to dancing.

After a moment Kirill dances his way over to Nikolai and

yells above the music.

Kirill suddenly stops dancing and stares at Nikolai.          He

yells again over the music.

Kirill suddenly goes to the stereo system and yanks the

plug from the wall. Silence. The girls look terrified.

The only sound is the sobbing of the girl who won't dance.

PINK Revision       -   11/12/06                                43.

Kirill is glaring at Nikolai.

A pause.

Kirill looks suddenly wild.          He swigs his whisky.   A long

pause.

Kirill hurls his whisky bottle against the wall.            The girls

all flinch.

A pause.   Nikolai studies Kirill's anger.

A pause.

Silence. Nikolai looks around the room.           Finally... Nikolai

turns to the girl who is sobbing.

Kirill smiles.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                            44.

Nikolai is fucking the girl, who is now silent.   She is on

all fours, registering no emotion.

Kirill is leaning against the wall, drinking wine from the

bottle, watching Nikolai with burning eyes, his lust and

drunken jealousy mixing together. Nikolai grits his teeth

and comes inside the girl. Kirill whoops and whistles and

begins to applaud.

The girl is still silent, expressionless.

Nikolai glares at Kirill.

Kirill grins and offers the girl an elaborate bow before

leaving. Finally alone, Nikolai gently helps the girl to

lie down. She is numb. He covers her up with a blanket

then begins to pull on his clothes. The girl is staring up

at the ceiling.

After a few moments she begins to sing a Russian folk song

softly under her breath. Nikolai speaks to her softly in

Russian.

A pause. Finally the girl stops singing but is silent.

Nikolai is insistent.

GOLDENROD Revision      -   11/27/06                        45.

Silence. She looks up and stares into Nikolai's eyes.

She sees some urgency there...

The girl is asking a silent question but Nikolai doesn't

linger. He heads for the door then stops and turns.

NIGHT

In the half-lit private room, Anna is dancing with Christine

in her arms. She is singing a lullaby softly to her. The

door is open to the rest of the ward and all the other

babies are silent.

Finally she lays a sleeping Christine back in her crib.

She sits down on the bed where the mother should be. She

curses herself silently and gets to her feet, determined

to pull herself together.

As she starts to leave the private room to enter the ward,

she is suddenly confronted by Semyon.

He is standing in the shadows, a Bavarian trilby in his

hands. Anna gasps with shock. Semyon speaks softly...

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                            45A.

WHITE Revision   -   9/12/06                                46.

Anna glances at an alarm button.

Semyon looks to be almost in tears.     He speaks softly.

A baby begins to cry and is comforted somewhere across the

ward.

Semyon appears to be fighting tears.

A pause.   Anna almost begins to buy his sorrow...

Semyon looks up, his eyes filled with tears.

A pause.

Semyon wipes his eyes.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             47.

A pause.

Semyon glances over Anna's shoulder into the corner where

Christine is sleeping. Anna freezes and doesn't reply.

Semyon takes her hand.

Anna reacts but Semyon's face suddenly hardens...

He stares into her eyes.

At that moment a nurse walks by and hesitates when she

sees Semyon.

Semyon puts his hat onto his head.

He turns.

Semyon disappears into the shadows of the ward.     As Anna

reacts we hear Tatiana in V.O.

WHITE Revision   -   9/12/06                            48.

Stepan is sitting at the kitchen table, translating

Tatiana's diary aloud, as Helen transcribes it onto a note

pad. Stepan's translation breaks up with emotion but he

tries to remain detached. Helen also tries hard to

concentrate on her task but wipes away a tear as she writes.

Tatiana's V.O. slowly blends into Stepan's voice...

They hear a key in the door and prepare for Anna's arrival.

When she enters she feels the tense silence. After a

moment, Helen tries to be bright...

Anna sees the tears in both their eyes.   She sees the diary

and the transcription and sits down.

Helen gets to her feet.

Anna gently pushes Helen back into her seat.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                              49.

Silence.

Stepan leaps to his feet.

Everyone begins to talk at once...

WHITE Revision     -   9/12/06                            50.

Anna suddenly stands up.

Silence.   Everyone catches their breath.

A pause.

Stepan heads for the kitchen cupboard and produces a bottle

of vodka. Rather than admonish him, Anna and Helen both

nod agreement. Stepan pours three large vodkas. Stepan

knocks his down. Anna and Helen take sips.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                              51.

A stand off.     Finally...

A pause.   They all look to each other.

Stepan is utterly astounded.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                              52.

Stepan stares at them both for a long time.   Finally he

gets to his feet and points to the diary.

He leaves. Anna and Helen hold hands, genuinely close now

for the first time in a long time.

Nikolai pulls up in his car. He checks his look in the

rear view mirror and puts on his sunglasses. As he gets

out of the car he notices that Anna's motorbike is still

there. He approaches it, strokes the bodywork. Suddenly,

someone grabs him from behind. It's Kirill.

A white van is parked with its rear doors open, ready for

unloading. Kirill shows Nikolai that the van is loaded

with unmarked white boxes.

Nikolai opens one of the boxes and produces a bottle of

vintage champagne.

Kirill snatches the bottle and begins to uncork it.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                             53.

He pops the cork and swigs the frothing champagne.

Kirill laughs.

Nikolai hands the bottle back. As he does, one of the van

doors is kicked closed revealing Semyon, suddenly upon

them.

Semyon grabs the bottle of champagne and smashes it on the

floor. Kirill recoils in terror. Nikolai straightens,

faces up.

Semyon is so furious he still can't speak. He grabs Kirill

and slams him against the wall. Finally he hisses in his

face.

Semyon slams Kirill against the wall once more.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                                54.

Semyon slams Kirill hard against the wall again.       Suddenly

Nikolai steps forward.

A pause. Semyon and Kirill are frozen for a moment.

Nikolai calmly lights a cigarette.

There is stunned silence.       Semyon loosens his grip on

Kirill.

Nikolai and Semyon survey each other.

Semyon has now lost all interest in Kirill and is

concentrating on Nikolai. He laughs with incredulity.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                          55.

Semyon circles Nikolai.

Kirill is about to speak but before he can, Nikolai speaks

for him.

Semyon hisses with fury and grabs Nikolai.

Nikolai shrugs Semyon off, holding his ground.

A pause. Semyon is shocked at the depth of Nikolai's

knowledge. He peers at him.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                            56.

A pause.

In Semyon's silence Kirill finally gathers courage...

Kirill is hurt that Semyon seems only to be interested in

Nikolai. After studying Nikolai for a while...

Semyon shows the first flicker of admiration. He then

looks at Kirill with utter contempt, making the comparison

with Nikolai obvious.

Semyon leaves them. Kirill is angry, straightening his

clothes. Finally he yells....

It is Saturday morning and the place is full of families.

Christmas decorations are beginning to look ragged.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                            57.

Anna and Helen are sitting at a table, terrified but trying

hard to stay calm. Stepan arrives with a tray of coffees

and a burger. He sits, and Anna and Helen glance uneasily

at each other. Stepan begins to eat noisily.

There is a tension that builds until Nikolai's Mercedes

suddenly looms into view, filling the street window of the

burger bar. Nikolai gets out of his car, all shades and

sharp suit.

Stepan very deliberately slides his hand into his inside

pocket.

Stepan removes his hand, empty, his bravado crushed.

Nikolai enters the restaurant and spots Anna. He comes

and sits at the table beside Stepan, opposite Anna. It's

a tight squeeze. Anna and Helen are stiff with terror.

Nikolai smiles.

He smiles at Helen.

Stepan is shaking with emotion and hisses something in

Russian.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                              58.

Nikolai smiles.

Nikolai is amused by the three of them. Anna produces

Tatiana's diary and hands it to Nikolai. Nikolai studies

it and nods. He gets to his feet...

Nikolai calmly heads for the door.      Stepan hisses.

Anna gets to her feet.

Anna races out of the restaurant in pursuit of Nikolai.

Nikolai has emerged into the busy suburban street and is

about to get in to his car. Anna flies at him, yelling.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                              59.

Nikolai casually hits the key fob of his car.

Passers-by stare at Anna. Helen and Stepan have come out

of the restaurant to restrain her. Nikolai stops and judges

the fury on Anna's face. He speaks calmly.

He gestures at the burger restaurant.

Anna and Nikolai are staring at each other, suddenly a

strange connection between them.

Then Stepan steps forward and spits in Nikolai's face,

delivering a Russian curse as he does so. Nikolai almost

reacts out of instinct but stops himself.

Nikolai wipes his face and peers into Anna's eyes.       Finally

he gets into his car and drives away.

Nikolai is alone, sitting at a candlelit table, reading

Tatiana's diary. We hear Tatiana in voice-over...

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             60.

He sees Semyon approaching from the kitchen and closes the

diary. Semyon grabs a bottle of vodka from the bar on his

way to sit opposite Nikolai. Nikolai pushes the diary

across the table. Semyon pours two drinks.

A pause as Semyon glances at a few pages of diary.

Nikolai senses a change of attitude towards him. As if

Semyon were beginning to accept him into the fold. Semyon

raises a toast.

After a moment.

Nikolai looks anxious.

Semyon pours two more vodkas.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                            61.

Nikolai doesn't respond. It is obvious that Semyon half

knows already. He shrugs...

A pause.   Semyon nurses his vodka.

He stares into Nikolai's eyes.    Finally, Nikolai stammers...

Semyon swigs his vodka and Nikolai swigs his. Semyon pours

two more. Semyon has to stare out of the window to hide

his emotion.

They both knock their drinks back. Semyon looks suddenly

angry as he peers out of the window.

Semyon shrugs, fighting deeper emotion...

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                              62.

Semyon smiles, as if seeing Moscow through the window.

A pause.

Nikolai smiles ruefully and glances at Semyon.

He swigs some more vodka.

Semyon seems to be taking the vodka less well than Nikolai.

He pours some more.

Nikolai doesn't blink.

Semyon peers at Nikolai and Nikolai doesn't respond.

Mention of the new breed of FSB agent causes an almost

imperceptible tension in Nikolai.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             63.

Is Semyon too drunk to notice? There is a strange game

going on here. For now, nothing is revealed.

Semyon knocks back his vodka and Nikolai does the same.

Semyon picks up the diary and holds it into the flame of

the candle. It begins to burn and he drops it into the

ashtray. The flames flicker for a while.

Semyon peers at Nikolai.

A pause.

A pause.

Semyon gets to his feet and smiles.

Semyon leaves Nikolai to stare into the flames of the

burning diary.

Anna exits, pulling on her coat against the cold. She

stops in her tracks when she sees her unchained motorbike

parked in the parking bay. She hears Nikolai's voice over

her shoulder.

PINK Revision    -    11/12/06                                 64.

Anna is about to walk quickly away...

Anna turns and sees Nikolai is offering a scrap of paper.

She hesitates.       Nikolai approaches and gives her the

address.

A pause.

Nikolai looks all around.        Anna studies him, unsure.

Anna sees some softness in his expression.        Their eyes

lock.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                               65.

Anna sees pain in his eyes.     She peers at the address.

After a long moment Anna turns away.

Nikolai smiles.

A pause.

Anna is about to answer but stops herself. Nikolai peers

at her and finally shrugs then turns to walk away. He

gestures at the bike.

Anna watches him walk away into the street.

Crowds of football supporters are streaming away from the

football stadium, where the floodlights are still casting

their glow. There are Arsenal and Chelsea supporters on

opposite sides of the street and there is some mildly

vicious yelling between the two groups. Police are visibly

keeping order.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             66.

Among the crowd we see Ekrem. He seems slightly drunk on

top of his normal craziness. He has an Arsenal scarf around

his neck and is looking for trouble, jeering at the Chelsea

supporters across the street.

A policeman steps up to Ekrem and gives him a shove and he

stumbles a little. As he gets to his feet we notice TWO

CHECHEN MEN who are trailing Ekrem, ducking their heads

away from the line of policemen.

Ekrem is now isolated from the crowds, swigging from a can

of lager. He is chanting `Arsenal, Arsenal' to himself as

he walks. He stops to take a piss on someone's grave.

In the background the two Chechens are coming closer. As

Ekrem zips his flies, the Chechens are upon him. One of

them grabs his Arsenal scarf and begins to strangle him.

Ekrem chokes for a while and the Chechen loosens the knot.

The second Chechen pulls out an open razor. Ekrem struggles

to escape...

The Chechen cuts Ekrem's throat then drops him onto the

grave stone.

The place has two dozen customers and there is a Russian

band playing `Dark Eyes'. At a particular table an old

Russian lady is having her birthday celebrated by an adoring

family and lots of very ancient friends.

There is a huge round of applause as Semyon emerges from

the kitchen with a cake decorated with sparklers.

Semyon returns to smoke and steam and yelling. As he

prepares to take a drink one of the young dishwashers

approaches.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                              67.

Semyon grabs a bottle of vodka.

Semyon emerges into the wine crates and beer bottles in

the yard at the back of the restaurant where the Doberman

is straining at the leash, snarling and barking. An already

anxious Ozim is cowering in the shadows, held at bay by

the dog.

The moment Semyon steps out the dog stops barking. Ozim

relaxes a little and steps forward. Semyon pets the dog.

Semyon takes a swig of vodka.    Ozim looks severely nervous.

Ozim is reliving the ordeal.

Semyon suddenly breaks the neck of the bottle and holds

the jagged edge to Ozim's throat. The dog snarls at

Semyon's feet.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                             68.

Semyon tosses the bottle away.       After a moment...

Ozim shakes his head.

Ozim is stunned.      He stares at Semyon as if he were insane.

Anna is reading the translation of the diary by lamplight.

Tatiana's voice over continues.

Anna looks up from the pages and thinks.

PINK Revision   -   11/12/06                             69.

A large public housing estate is being swept by rain.

Christmas lights glow in the windows of the dilapidated

tower blocks. Stepan is walking against the wind, carrying

a bag of shopping. He holds onto his Russian hat to stop

it blowing away. Kids splash in the puddles.

Stepan arrives at the front garden of his small, ground-

floor council flat. As he fumbles for his keys in the cold

we see that Nikolai is watching him from the driver's seat

of his Mercedes. Once Stepan has disappeared into his

flat, Nikolai gets out of the car and approaches Stepan's

flat.

Helen is preparing food for a small family dinner. Anna

enters with her cellphone in her hand. She mooches for

food to hide her agenda. Finally...

Helen simply stares at her.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                            70.

Helen slams her knife down.

A pause. After a moment Helen goes to her, holds her hands

and peers into her eyes. We expect comforting words, but

instead...

A pause.

Anna turns and walks out of the house.

Anna drives her motorbike through North London streets.

Rain is falling.

Anna is standing in the falling rain, staring over at the

trans-Siberian restaurant. The restaurant is busy, with

the noise of revelers swelling every time the door is

opened.

Anna seems to be exiled from where she should really be -

Inside a restaurant like this, with its danger and vibrancy.

Suddenly she is illuminated by headlights. She turns and

sees that Nikolai is pulling up in his Mercedes. Kirill is

in the passenger seat. Nikolai gets out of the car and

stops when he sees Anna. Anna is like a fox caught in

headlights.

A pause.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             71.

Kirill studies the gaze between Nikolai and Anna and senses

the connection.

Kirill grabs Nikolai's arm, and after peering at Anna for

a moment, he turns to go with Kirill. Anna gathers her

courage.

Music swells from the restaurant.

Kirill and Nikolai stop. A swell of laughter from the

restaurant. Anna is about to continue but Nikolai steps

forward and places two fingers on Anna's lips to stop her

from saying anymore. Anna tears his hands from her mouth.

At the same time Kirill yells in Russian.

Anna is terrified but angry too.    She yells.

WHITE Revision     -   9/12/06                                72.

Kirill suddenly goes for her over the bonnet of the car....

Kirill pushes Anna up against the car, but she fights him.

Kirill slaps Anna hard.     Nikolai grabs Kirill and pulls

him away.

He goes for Anna again, and this time Nikolai shoves Kirill

to the wet ground. He looks up at Nikolai and slowly gets

to his feet. He wipes his hands then stares into Nikolai's

eyes.

Headlights from a passing car sweep the scene....

Nikolai peers at Anna for a moment.     Anna's voice is defiant

but cracking with fear.

Nikolai has taken what Anna said on board.        He speaks

softly...

Kirill yells....

He turns to Anna...

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                              73.

He offers the lights of the restaurant to her as a vicious

invitation.

Anna stares back. Nikolai peers at her for a moment before

grabbing Kirill and pulling him away towards the restaurant.

The place is winding up. Chefs and waiters are cleaning

surfaces and dishes. The only still point is Semyon, who

is cutting and wrapping the birthday cake in small parcels

of golden paper. He works intensely and delicately at the

back of the kitchen. Nikolai and Kirill enter. Kirill

swigs a half-drunk glass of wine.

Semyon shoots Kirill a hard look: he's talking too much

and too loudly. Kirill ignores the look.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                               74.

Semyon works on for a moment then glances at Kirill.

Kirill turns to leave.

A confused pause.     Kirill looks from Nikolai to his father.

A pause as Kirill suddenly senses his exclusion.

Semyon stares at Kirill and Kirill knows the look.

Kirill hesitates. He is angry as hell but too scared of

his father's gaze to say anything. Finally he turns fast

and departs, slamming his open hand against the door as he

goes.

Semyon waits a moment before returning to the business of

cutting the cake. Finally...

Nikolai nods.

A pause.     Semyon looks up and fixes Nikolai with a stare.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                            75.

A long moment. The thing Nikolai has been working for has

finally happened. There seems to be little joy.

Semyon returns to his work.    Nikolai hesitates.

Semyon continues with the cake, unconcerned.

The cellar is half lit, the arched walls lined with crates

of wine. Flour, grease and potatoes are stored here. As

Nikolai walks down the steps into the gloom, he hears Kirill

singing a Russian folk song to himself as he drags a case

of brandy across the cellar floor.

Kirill has already opened a bottle of brandy and takes a

long swig as Nikolai joins him. He grins as he gestures

at the brandy...

Nikolai sits down on a crate, rests his head against the

wall. Kirill joins him and swigs some more.

Kirill offers the bottle to Nikolai but he refuses.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             76.

Nikolai decides to bite the bullet, get this news over

with.

A long pause. This is what Kirill wanted, but now it feels

like a stab in the back. Finally Kirill swallows a huge

swig of brandy then turns awkwardly to hug Nikolai. He

squeezes him hard for a long time then shoves him away.

Nikolai nods.    Kirill gets to his feet....

A pause.

Kirill is about to fly into a rage but Nikolai gets to his

feet.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                            77.

Nikolai heads for the steps.

As Nikolai departs Kirill calls after him.

Nikolai climbs the steps. Kirill is left to swig his brandy

and stare into the darkness. He wipes his eyes angrily

with his sleeve.

Sweet Russian choral music covers the next four scenes.

The street outside the restaurant is now flooding with

rain. A Daimler and a Bentley are already parked. A large

SUV pulls up and a hard-looking Russian man in his sixties

(VALERY) is ushered from the car by bodyguards in suits

and shades.

He is greeted by a darker-looking man in his fifties (THE

GYPSY) who has a fur coat around his shoulders. Semyon is

waiting on the doorstep, dressed in a fine dark suit.

The curtains are drawn against the rainy light. The Gypsy,

Valery, Semyon and TWO OTHER RUSSIAN MEN are sitting in a

line behind a restaurant table, like a judging panel.

After a moment Nikolai enters, dressed in suit and tie for

the biggest interview of his life.

The vory behind the table greet him.

Then Nikolai takes off his jacket and removes his tie. He

then takes off his shirt, to reveal that his upper body is

decorated with elaborate tattoos (details to follow).

He carefully places his shirt over the chair then sits

down. The panel of the vory study his body, the Gypsy

pushing a candle across the table to better illuminate the

detail of the tattoos. Only after the men have studied

the tattoos does the interview begin.

WHITE Revision       -   9/12/06                                78.

The following dialogue should not be translated, and can

be cut around to suggest a long and grueling interview.

Nikolai flickers a little.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                           79.

The questions and answers are delivered with great

solemnity, making the ceremony feel almost religious.

Candles burn, the men all sip water.

Semyon is silent throughout but listens attentively.

Towards the end of the interview there is the ghost of a

smile on the Gypsy's face and this pleases Semyon.

A wizened old Russian man (THE TATTOOIST) arrives at the

kitchen door, carrying a battered leather case. The kitchen

door is opened as he arrives and Semyon greets him.

The choral music continues as we see the old man opening

his case and pulling out tattooing equipment.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                            80.

Nikolai is sitting in a banquette at the back, wearing

only his underpants. We circle Nikolai as the tattooist

begins to work on his knees, preparing Nikolai's knee caps

for the tattoos.

The needle bites at Nikolai's skin as the old tattooist

wipes away the blood.

Then we see the needle working on the empty spaces above

Nikolai's heart, tattooing the star symbol.

Nikolai now has a star tattoo on each knee and two eight-

pointed stars on his chest. He is now a member of the vory

v zakone.

Anna is lying awake, her curtains drawn against the

daylight. Helen knocks and enters with a cup of tea, just

as in the opening scenes. Anna sits up.

Anna doesn't answer.    Helen looks anxious as she peeks out

of the curtains.

A pause.

Helen is trying to hide her anxiety but Anna sees it.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             81.

Helen knows Anna well, senses some flicker of attraction.

A pause.

Anna doesn't answer and Helen's anger sparks... She leaves

and slams the door.

We are in St. Pancras, North London.

More rain. Ozim is waiting nervously, blowing into his

hands against the cold. The Turkish bath building is a

Victorian red-brick edifice.

Nikolai pulls up in his Mercedes.

Ozim and Nikolai are undressing. The place is deserted

apart from an OLD TURKISH BATH-HOUSE ATTENDANT who is

distributing towels. Ozim is unbuttoning his shirt.

Nikolai is pulling off his shirt and Ozim reacts to the

sight of the fresh eight-pointed star tattoos. Ozim

chuckles.

Ozim disappears into a steam room, naked. Nikolai watches

him go, a private agenda bubbling beneath the surface.

PINK Revision   -   11/12/06                             82.

Ozim and Nikolai sit side by side, sweating.    There is no

one else in the steam room.

Ozim grins.

Ozim chuckles as he leaves in a swirl of steam. Nikolai

leans back against the cold wall, his tattoo almost the

only visible thing through the steam.

Ozim is dressing frantically, his face suddenly betraying

his real anxiety. He checks his watch as he puts it back

on his wrist.

After a moment the two Chechen brothers who killed Ekrem

enter the changing room. They swagger up to Ozim.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                      83-83A.

He gulps down his fear.

Ozim slaps his chest to denote the place where they will

see the vor tattoo. They head towards the steam room as

Ozim grabs his shoes and hurries towards the exit.

Nikolai is sweating hard, staring at the ceiling. The

steam room door opens but the steam is now so thick he

can't see who has entered.

He sees a shape... a clothed body. He realizes immediately.

Suddenly one of the brothers is upon him and has him in a

head lock. He strokes the tattoo on Nikolai's chest as if

this were confirmation of who this is. He grunts an

instruction and his brother emerges through the steam with

an open razor.

Nikolai is naked, alone.

Suddenly he kicks the razor guy in the balls and uses a

martial arts chop to free himself from the other brother.

In the steam there are boots and bare feet and knees and

fingers flying. Nikolai manages to gouge the eye of one

brother and throw another against the wall. He obviously

has serious combat training but the brothers are strong

and angry.

Suddenly Nikolai is slashed across the arm by the razor

and blood oozes into the steam and hot water. All the men

are slipping and falling on the blood and hot water.

Another slash of the razor cuts his thigh open. All the

men are now covered in blood and Nikolai, with a final

surge of strength, manages to cripple one brother with a

blow to the throat, and the other with an elbow to the

temple.

As the Chechens slump to the floor, Nikolai fumbles in the

bloody water for the razor, finds it, kneels, and slashes

their throats. He lurches to his feet, drops the razor,

and staggers out of the steam room.

GOLDENROD Revision     -   11/27/06                       84.

Aziz and a group of a dozen doctors and nurses are eating

lunch, some in party hats, some drinking red wine out of

paper cups. Aziz seems anxious, distracted. Anna enters in

a hurry, locates Aziz and joins him.

She looks around the 'party' with horror...

He smiles and downs his glass of wine in one go.

Aziz, confused, takes her hand.

Aziz feels Anna's pulse.      Anna takes a deep breath.

A pause.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                               85.

Aziz smiles.

Nikolai is being hurried down the corridor, his face covered

with an oxygen mask. He is covered with a surgical gown

which is covered in blood. His arm flops out from under

the covers as the paramedics rush him into the hospital.

Anna is walking in the opposite direction. Then, as

Nikolai's trolley passes, Anna sees Nikolai's arm, flopping

from under the covers. She sees the eagle tattoo on the

back of his hand. Anna freezes.

Nikolai is conscious in bed, attached to a single drip.

His wounds have been stitched up.

A doctor and two nurses are settling Nikolai's vital signs,

moving around him, checking his temperature. Finally they

clear the bed and through the glass of the room we see

Anna, standing outside, staring in at Nikolai.

Nikolai is peering through half-opened eyes. The last

nurse is checking his vital signs. Then Anna enters. The

nurse stops work...

The nurse hesitates...

Anna glances at Nikolai who is rousing himself.

WHITE Revision      -   9/12/06                             86.

The nurse is reluctant but sees Anna's fierce stare and

finally leaves. After she has gone Nikolai stirs, focuses

on her face.

Nikolai smiles, but Anna is trying hard to even out her

fear and anger.

Nikolai tries to sit up and registers pain.

A pause. Nikolai gasps in pain as he raises himself up.

Anna sees the wounds on his arms and glimpses the tattoos

on his chest, scaring her even more.

Nikolai reaches for a bottle of water and manages to take

a swig. Anna is impatient for a reaction.

A pause. Nikolai finishes the bottle of water in one

thirsty swig. Finally...

A pause.

Anna is locating the door in case she has to flee as Nikolai

swings his legs out of the bed to stretch his painful limbs.

WHITE Revision    -   9/12/06                           87.

Anna doesn't budge.

Nikolai sighs, sits back down on the bed.    He finally speaks

softly.

Nikolai shrugs.

A pause.

Nikolai smiles at Anna.

Anna still looks disbelieving.   Nikolai sighs.

GOLDENROD Revision   -   11/27/06                        88.

Without a pause Anna leaves.

NIGHT

Anna is sitting on the bed beside Christine's crib.

Christine is asleep. Anna is speaking into her cell phone,

trying to keep her voice down.

A pause.   Anna looks exasperated.

Anna listens with weariness.

She listens with growing anger until she finally cuts the

call without a word. Christine stirs but doesn't wake.

She leans back against the wall, already regretful.

NEXT MORNING.

The ward is busy as Yuri, the police specialist from the

Russian desk, enters wearing a heavy overcoat. He looks

all around and approaches a nurse.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                          89.

Nikolai's drip is being removed by A NURSE. Nikolai is

examining his healing wounds. Then through the glass of

the door he notices Yuri, speaking to a nurse, and obviously

recognizes him.

The nurse points Yuri in Nikolai's direction.

It's cold and the wind is blowing. We see rooftops behind

them. Yuri is lighting Nikolai's cigarette. Nikolai is

wearing Yuri's overcoat loosely over his hospital gown.

Yuri lights his own cigarette and they smoke in silence

for a moment.

Yuri chuckles.

He glances at the cuts on Nikolai's hands...

Nikolai suddenly glares at Yuri.

Yuri shakes his head and prepares to deliver bad news.

Nikolai turns as if to go back inside. Yuri grabs Nikolai's

arm and speaks formally....

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                              90.

Nikolai shakes his head wearily....

Nikolai doesn't react for a moment.

With his cigarette dangling from his mouth Nikolai begins

to unbutton his overcoat..

Nikolai turns and slowly pulls open the overcoat and the

thin hospital gown beneath it.

He reveals the eight-pointed star tattoos on his chest and

Yuri reacts with absolute astonishment.

A pause. Yuri looks shocked and slightly horrified.

Nikolai too suddenly seems almost ashamed that he has got

this far. After a long silence Nikolai mumbles.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                           91.

A pause.   Yuri is still overwhelmed.

A pause.

A pause. Yuri is humbled. They share a moment of

understanding as they smoke. Finally...

Yuri laughs.

Nikolai lights another cigarette from the stub of the one

he is smoking. Yuri is incredulous.

Yuri begins to chuckle.

BLUE Revision    -   11/4/06                              92.

A pause.

A pause.   Yuri begins it think it through.

Yuri peers at Nikolai with awe.    A long pause.   Finally

Yuri smiles.

A pause.

A pause.

Nikolai reacts but doesn't answer. A pause.

Yuri studies Nikolai.

PINK Revision    -   11/12/06                             93.

Yuri tenderly takes his overcoat from Nikolai's shoulders

and goes back through the fire-escape door. Nikolai is

left cold and exposed in his thin gown.

Nikolai is playing chess against himself, sitting on the

bed, trying hard to concentrate. There is a knock and

Anna enters, carrying an old shopping bag. She takes out

a worn pair of jeans and a T-shirt, a denim jacket and a

battered pair of shoes. Nikolai smiles...

Instead of answering, Anna lays the clothes on the bed.

Nikolai picks up the jeans and examines them.     They're way

too big.

Nikolai smiles but Anna turns to leave...

Nikolai steps behind the bed screen to pull on the jeans.

He speaks from behind the screen.

A pause.   Anna considers leaving but hesitates.

Nikolai steps out from behind the screen, the baggy jeans

tightly belted, his chest bare. For the first time Anna

sees the extent of Nikolai's body tattoos and reacts....

Nikolai sees her reaction to the tattoos and doesn't care

for it. He grabs the T-shirt and pulls it on.

Nikolai is now dressed, his cut and tattooed arms still

showing.

A pause.   Anna nods.

They peer at each other.

Nikolai shrugs and grabs the shoes.

Nikolai laughs.

Their eyes lock across a huge divide.   He rubs the tattoos

on his arm.

Anna nods. An awkward pause, then Anna turns and leaves

quickly.

The restaurant is filled with balloons of every color, all

over the floor and bouncing off the tables. A large `Happy

New Year' banner is hanging from the wall.

Kirill is sitting on the floor amongst the balloons, blowing

up another one. Maria, Semyon's little granddaughter, runs

in to the restaurant and stops to stare at Kirill. He

begins to inflate another balloon then stops.

Maria comes to him and take a balloon. She tries to blow

it up but fails. Kirill smiles and blows it up for her.

Kirill takes a deep breath to blow a balloon then stops

and looks at Maria.

PINK Revision    -    11/12/06                            96.

A pause.     Kirill smiles.   We see slight abrasions.

She nods and Kirill blows another balloon. At that moment

Kirill sees on the security monitor behind the bar that a

police car is pulling up outside the restaurant. His face

clouds as another pulls up beside it.

Semyon sits at a bare table, opposite Yuri from the Russian

desk. A uniformed officer stands nearby, and there is a

police doctor with a medical bag sitting at the next table,

waiting. The whole scene is rendered surreal by all the

balloons which bounce around them. Semyon is in full

charming old man mode.

He is half on his feet.

Yuri shakes his head.     Semyon goes to the optic and helps

himself to a vodka.

WHITE Revision       -    9/12/06                     97.

Semyon glances at the doctor and chuckles.

Semyon's face hardens and he glares at Yuri.

A pause.     Yuri speaks softly.

He gets to his feet.

Semyon begins to roll up his sleeve, revealing a long scroll

of tattoos.

Then a needle is being pushed into Semyon's arm by the

doctor. Semyon's face doesn't flicker. He stares into

Yuri's eyes.

BLUE Revision   -   11/4/06                                98.

Kirill is preparing food for the night's festivities.

Semyon enters and goes straight to the sink. He pulls off

the plaster from his arm where the blood was taken and

pours some vodka over the tiny puncture hole.

Semyon pours more vodka on the wound then takes a swig.

He glares at Kirill as he rolls his sleeve down.

Kirill has his back turned, doesn't react.   Semyon sits

heavily. Finally...

For the first time Semyon looks vulnerable and confused as

he admits....

Kirill is surprised to see his father unsure.   He peers at

him.

Kirill is now unnerved by Semyon's quiet confusion. He

watches as Semyon grabs at the bottle of vodka to drink.

He speaks softly as he swigs.

BLUE Revision       -   11/4/06                         99.

Kirill is reluctant to speak at first but eventually chances

his arm.

A pause.

Semyon turns to Kirill, his face hardening...

Semyon approaches and Kirill gets scared.

Semyon stares into Kirill's eyes and Kirill mistakes his

frantic thought process for anger. Kirill backs away.

Semyon is beginning to catch up.

The main entrance of the hospital is busy with visitors

and staff. There is a `Happy New Year' banner across the

entrance. In amongst the bustle of visitors we spy a young

man with his collar turned up and a bunch of red roses in

his hand.

We then see that it is Kirill, entering the hospital.

GOLDENROD Revision   -   11/27/06                      100.

Anna is walking down a corridor with her crash helmet in

her hand, heading for another shift.

We are close on Kirill's face as he studies a map of the

hospital near the elevators.

Anna comes down a stairwell and spots Kirill - she

especially notices the roses - just as he gets into an

elevator. The elevator doors close. Was it really him?

Anna is not sure. She frowns.

A door opens and Kirill steps into striped moonlight.

Clamping the roses under his arm, he pulls a black zip-up

sports bag from under his coat. After a brief dialogue

with himself, he produces a half bottle of vodka and takes

a swig. Then he hurries on.

NIGHT

Anna walks onto the ward in her uniform. She checks a few

stats as she walks by various beds. She then glances over

at Christine's private room. She tiptoes into the room

and goes to the crib. She finds it empty - except for a

bunch of red roses. Outside the ward is now filling up

with visitors. Babies cry, people laugh.

Anna goes back out to the ward and calls to a nurse.

PINK Revision   -   11/12/06                          101.

Anna runs at breakneck speed through the corridors.

Kirill is at the wheel of Nikolai's Mercedes. He swigs

from his bottle of vodka, which is now more than half empty.

He fires the engine and reverses. A car passing by has to

slam on its brakes. Kirill yells.

A horn blows. The passing car accelerates angrily by. Then

we hear a baby crying. Kirill looks into the half darkness

of the back seat and we see Kirill's black sports bag,

partially zipped up. Christine is crying inside it, her

little grasping hand protruding past the zipper. Kirill

speaks softly.

PINK Revision     -   11/12/06                         102.

NIGHT

Anna flies out of Nikolai's room and spots a nurse.

Anna runs out.

Anna runs fast down the corridor towards the hospital exit.

She spots Nikolai ahead of her.

She pushes past a couple of drunks and flies at him.

Nikolai reacts.

People back away as Nikolai grabs Anna's arms and holds

her still.

Anna studies Nikolai's face and sees his genuine confusion.

She calms down a little.

Nikolai curses under his breath and thinks fast.

