Lila's eyes fill with tears. Ray chokes back her own.

Lila follows Ray out, looking over her shoulder at the

baby.

Lila and Ray drive away.

Lila looks at Ray.

Lila says nothing.

Ray and Lila pull up in front of Lila's camper and stop.

Ray divides the money.

Lila takes the money and starts to get out.

Lila gets out and goes inside.

Ray drives up. The trailer is covered in Christmas

lights.

Ray comes in. The box containing the Hot Wheels Tech

Track Air Stunt Challenge set is under the tree.

She is suspicious.

He gives her a sideways glance.

A heavy THUD as something hits the side of Lila's camper.

She opens the door, but no one is there. At her feet she

sees a Pringles can. In it: the cash she left at her

mother-in-law's house for her son.

She looks towards the woods but there is no sign of

anyone. She shuts the door.

Inside she digs through an old box of junk and pulls out

a 2 foot long oval shaped wooden board, an infant board,

and a blanket. She wraps her pillow in the blanket around

the board in the Mohawk tradition and picks it up.

She tries it on her back, then leans it against the wall,

then hangs it on a hook on the wall.

Christmas Morning. Ray stands at the stove in her

bathrobe making pancakes. T.J. helps Ricky set up his new

Hot Wheels Set.

A Knock at the door.

Another knock.

Ricky runs to the door and opens it, then backs away.

Trooper Napoli is there.

Ray comes to the door.

Ray slips on her boots, grabs her jacket around her and

steps outside the trailer door.

Ray stands and watches the trooper drive away. She feels

in the pocket of her bathrobe for her cigarettes and

fumbles to light one, sucking on it, unaware of the cold.

When she turns around she looks at the trailer and

notices the smoke-stained siding on one end of it.

T.J. listens at the door. Ricky looks up.

From outside the door:

T.J. goes outside.

Ray stands staring at T.J. at the trailer's burnt end.

She points to the blackened siding on the trailer.

They stand in the cold air for a long moment their breath

visible. She touches his hair.

Ray drives up in the Acclaim. Lila and the Horizon are

gone.

Ray gets out and looks around but there is no sign of

her.

Ray slowly cruises the lot looking for the Horizon.

She spots it in the distance behind the Bingo palace next

to a dumpster.

Ray parks and goes inside.

The short chubby toothless Mohawk ticket taker perched on

a metal stool beside a velvet rope.

Ray sees her and begins to dig in her jeans for a five.

The ticket taker looks her up and down, expressionless.

Ray hands over the money. The ticket taker just looks at

her.

Ray walks away. The ticket taker watches her.

Ray slumps down in the driver's seat of the Acclaim

waiting for Lila to come out. She is parked a few cars

away from the Horizon.

Other bingo players come out and get in cars surrounding

Ray.

Mohawks employees, including Lila come out of the

"Employees Entrance". She starts toward Horizon. She

wears new glasses.

Catching sight of Ray in the Acclaim, she abruptly turns

and starts walking in the opposite direction.

Ray pulls out and drives over following her in the

Acclaim.

Lila keeps walking. Ray drives along beside her.

Ray and Lila pull up outside the model double wide home.

Ray and Lila look at it.

Ray gets out.

She disappears into the Office.

Lila looks at the house.

Ray comes in on Guy Versailles giving a young couple the

hard sell.

Versailles looks up, annoyed. He plasters on a smile.

He tries to take Ray aside.

She pulls a huge wad of cash from her jacket pocket.

She holds out the cash. The couple tries not to watch.

He takes out a contract and writes in the deposit amount

as thirteen hundred seventy two dollars owing.

Ray signs the paper.

Ray drives down the boat launch and starts across. The

sky is clear and the moon shines down on the white river

surface.

Downstream patches of the river have thawed and water

flows is visible.

There is only the sound of the wheels on the smooth ice

surface.

Jimmy's is dark. Ray and Lila sit a minute. Then:

Ray honks the horn.

A light comes on. Jimmy runs outside in a t-shirt. Lila

rolls down the window.

Ray and Lila drive down a Quebec highway. The road signs

are in French.

The skyline of Montreal is an orange glow in the far

distance.

Ray and Lila drive down a commercial strip of shopping

centers, fast food joints and strip clubs, with French

names.

Ray pulls in at a giant neon silhouette of a naked woman.

They drive around back and get out. THROBBING DISCO music

is heard from inside a door marked "Prive."

They walk in. The place is mostly empty. There is a

scantily dressed BARTENDER and JACQUES BRUNO sitting at

the bar.

She points to Bruno. Lila and Ray approach him. He is on

his cell phone speaking in French.

He looks them over, then closes up his telephone.

He calls over the Bartender. She comes over. He points to

Ray and Lila.

She walks over to them.

Ray and Lila put up their hands. The Bartender pat frisks

them for body wires. When she is finished:

He picks up his full-length fur coat.

They follow him out the back of the club. The Bartender

follows.

They wait.

He points to the Acclaim parked a few feet away. They

nod. He walks out to a shed and unlocks the door. Two

very young CHINESE GIRLS, sickly and pale, wearing jean

jackets look vacantly out.

Bruno signals them to get out.

He pulls a wad of cash from inside his coat and hands it

to Lila. She counts it out.

The girls stand shivering by the trunk.

Ray smiles and wipes away the blood.

They drive a short distance. Ray checks the rear-view

mirror.

Lila looks in the rear view. Headlights appear behing

them.

Ray speeds up approaching an intersection: the sign reads

"ARRET"

Lila looks back in the rear view mirror. The headlights

are gaining on them.

She SPEEDS through it.

A local SURETE DE QUEBEC police cruiser parked out of

sight TAKES OFF after her, LIGHTS FLASHING.

Ray swerves off the main road to a DIRT ROAD. The Quebec

police follow.

Ray swerves off the road and across a field into the

WOODS and kills the HEADLIGHTS.

The Quebec Cruiser CHASES them.

Ray speeds down the road.

Ray speeds towards it, but the Quebec cruiser still

pursues them.

Ray bounces into the woods through the trees.

The Acclaim emerges from the woods at the edge of the

river. The International Seaway Bridge looms above the

ice surface of the river.

Behind them the flashing lights close in.

Ray looks at her for a moment then drives toward the ice.

Behind them, the Quebec cruiser BRAKES at the edge of the

river.

The Quebec officer GETS OUT TO WATCH the Acclaim drive

out across the ice. He radios to:

A BORDER GUARD picks up the phone. He nods, then hangs up

and makes a call to...

Trooper Napoli hears the call on the police radio.

He recognizes the car and u-turns.

Ray and Lila hold their breath as they cross the river.

They make it over the midpoint and Ray accelerates toward

the shore.

Two hundred feet from the bank, the BACK RIGHT TIRE HITS

A CRACK in the ice. The TIRE DROPS and the UNDER BELLY of

the car SCRAPES THE ICE. SPARKS FLY.

The RIGHT REAR END of the car DROPS DOWN and the FRONT

LEFT TIRE LIFTS off the ice. The car TEETERS BACK AND

FORTH.

Ray and Lila sit perfectly still.

Lila rolls down her window. The car shifts. The wad of

cash SLIDES toward the edge of the dashboard. Ray grabs

it.

Lila pops the trunk. The two Chinese girls scramble out.

The four begin RUNNING FOR THE SHORE.

ANGLE FROM THE UNDER THE BRIDGE:

Trooper Napoli watches the action on the ice.

The CAR SINKS DEEPER INTO THE WATER on one side.

Ray, Lila and the Chinese girls keep running, slipping

and sliding, falling. Lila and Ray stop and go back to

help one of the Chinese girls who keeps falling.

When they get to the shore, they climb up the bank and

collapse on the snow, gasping.

ANGLE: Trooper Napoli gets in his cruiser and heads down

the bank toward the women, lights flashing.

Two headlights are seen in the distance coming toward

them. A PICKUP TRUCK approaches along the shore.

Jimmy drives it. He gets out, gathers Ray, Lila and the

two Chinese girls into the back of the truck and drives

away.

Ray looks back as the Acclaim SLIPS THROUGH THE ICE AND

DISAPPEARS.

Trooper Napoli reaches the scene, too late. No one is

there.

A small house on the river's edge with a hand painted

sign:"Bakery" Jimmy drives up. He helps Ray, Lila and the

Chinese girls to the door.

The Ticket Taker, "VELMA" opens the door, wearing an

apron.

He leads them, wet and freezing, to the bakery kitchen.

As they go by Velma and Ray recognize each other.

An industrial oven sits beside an old couch. Lila, Ray

and the teenage girls stand near it shivering.

Velma looks them over, frowning and shakes her head.

She opens a closet filled with Indian medicine plants and

takes out several kinds.

Ray sits down. Velma reaches up and dabs Ray's grazed and

bleeding forehead.

Ray winces in pain.

Velma motions to the Chinese girls to take off their

coats. They stare at her shivering.

She gently goes to one of the girls and helps her out of

her jean jacket. Under it she wears a short sleeved shirt

showing her bruised arms.

Velma sees the bruises.

Lila and Ray see the girl's black and blue arms.

Velma hangs the girl's jacket on the big oven to dry and

gives her an old blanket to keep warm.

Then Velma turns to Lila.

MOHAWK CHIEF OF POLICE, BILLY THREE RIVERS, a stressed-

looking man in his 40's talks on the phone.

Billy Three Rivers sits down at a long conference table.

A middle-aged Mohawk woman, "BARBARA" sits behind a name

plate reading "CHIEF". At the end of the table Bernie

sits behind another name plate: "SUB-CHIEF."

Rosalie comes in wearing her coat over her bathrobe and

takes her place behind the "GRAND CHIEF" name plate.

Two New York State Cruisers block the road, lights

flashing.

The bell on the bakery door RINGS. Billy Three Rivers

walks in looking very official. Jimmy opens the door.

He comes in and Velma walks in from the kitchen closing

the door behind her.

Velma says nothing.

Jimmy looks away.

Three Rivers leaves.

Lila and Ray LISTEN from the kitchen. Ray eyes the back

door.

Ray grabs her jacket off the oven and takes half the cash

out of the pocket and hands it to Lila.

Lila takes the money. The Chinese girls look on confused.

One gets up and grabs her jacket, but Ray motions her

back.

Ray hurries to the back door, opens it, but Bernie

Littlewolf is there. At the sight of him, Ray backs up.

He walks in.

Lila looks at him, unfazed.

Ray goes to the door, but turns around...

Ray shuts the door behind her and starts toward the

river. She turns and runs along the bank...a long

way...then slows down. Breathing hard, she stops. Snow

melts on her face. A long moment passes.

The sound of the river ice pushing against the bank

releases a long, deep moan all around her.

Lila and Bernie sit on the old sofa by the big oven.

The back door opens. Ray is there.

Bernie and Lila turn around. Ray walks in.

She takes the folded double-wide contract out of her

pocket and holds it out to Lila.

Lila isn't sure.

Lila nods her head.

Ray chokes back her own tears.

Lila takes the contract from Ray.

Bernie nods.

T.J. and Ricky eat supper to the glow of the TV in the

background.

T.J. dumps his own corn onto Ricky's plate.

Flashing dome lights of New York State troopers are seen

just beyond the sign "YOU ARE NOW LEAVING THE LAND OF THE

MOHAWK." Trooper Napoli waits in his cruiser with other

vehicles.

Billy drives Ray and the Chinese girls slowly toward them

in the Mohawk Tribal Police Cruiser.

Billy stops and the three get out of the car, handcuffed.

Bernie waits in the car. Lila walks to the front door.

Thunder looks up from beside the front step.

She knocks.

Evelyn opens the door. Seeing Lila she tries to close it,

but Lila WEDGES herself inside.

Evelyn tires to push her out, but Lila walks in the

house.

Lila walks up to the Little Jake sitting in his high

chair, his face covered in carrots.

She reaches out to touch him, but Evelyn pushes her hand

away.

Lila picks up the baby, and looks around.

She grabs Lila's arm, but Lila shakes her arm free and

wraps Little Jake in her own jacket.

Evelyn stands in front of the door, blocking Lila. Lila

stops and they stand for a moment looking at each other.

There is anger and sadness. Evelyn moves aside.

Lila walks out with the baby.

Bernie stands by the car holding a CAR SEAT.

Ray sits in the backseat. The two Chinese girls beside

her.

He glances around at them.

Ray looks at the two girls.

He lights one for her. She takes it, shaking.

He looks back at her.

Trooper Napoli looks at her.

The phone rings. T.J. picks it up.

She hears his voice and can't speak.

There is a long silence. He wipes a tear away with his

sleeve.

Ricky plays with his Hot Wheels on the floor.

A KNOCK at the door. T.J. looks at it, unsure what to do.

He walks to it and opens it holding the phone. Lila is

standing there holding Little Jake, wrapped in her jean

jacket.

T.J. and Lila look at each other.   She walks in.

He hangs up.

Little Jake sees Ricky playing with the Hot Wheels Set

and reaches to get down.

Lila puts him on the floor. He crawls toward the

Christmas tree and the Hot Wheels set.

Ray rides in the back of the Cruiser. They pass by

trailer homes decorated for Christmas.

A Semi ROARS down the road with "WIDE LOAD" banner

hauling a single wide mobile home through the bright

morning light, plastic covering rippling in the wind.

Using the blow torch, T.J. works on the smiling duck

Kiddie ride.

Ricky plays with Little Jake, dressed in a snow suit.

Lila comes outside with a plate of peanut butter

sandwiches, badly made.

T.J. signals Ricky who brings Little Jake over and puts

him on the Kiddie ride. Ricky holds him on the seat and

T.J. flips a switch. The ride JERKS a few times then

starts to move back and fourth. Little Jake smiles.

Behind T.J. a Mohawk Tribal Police Cruiser drives up.

Billy Two Rivers gets out and walks up to T.J.

He speaks sternly to T.J., pointing at the cruiser where

an elderly and frail Mohawk women in her eighties, Mrs.

ThreeRivers, looks out the window.

T.J. walks over to the cruiser. She rolls down the

window. He says something to her, looking at the ground

as he speaks.

Ricky and Lila holding Little Jake look on.

Billy Two Rivers drives away.

SUDDENLY T.J. and Ricky LOOK UP. A RUMBLE is heard in the

distance. From down the road the SEMI is seen

APPROACHING...

T.J. smiles and Ricky watches not sure whether to believe

it or not. He takes T.J.'s hand.

Ray is asleep in her new bedroom with wall-to-wall carpet

and a big window.

Her cell phone RINGS. She doesn't move.

The tone is heard.

The message cuts off with a "BEEP."

ClOSE ON: the cell phone screen. "12 NEW MESSAGES"

changes to "13 NEW MESSAGES."

A sign reads "Bridge to Canada."

A steep 1940's era customs bridge arches over the St.

Lawrence River.

Cars and trucks line up in different lanes. Customs

officials man booths at the center of the bridge,

inspecting and questioning impatient drivers.

Beyond them, a smaller sign: "THANK YOU FOR VISITING

MASSENA NEW YORK, IT WORKS, for business, for family, for

you".

The river stretches miles in either direction, no longer

frozen and still with trees on either side.

FADE OUT

