Copyright (c) 1971

Turner Entertainment Co

All Rights Reserved.

Copyright (c) 1971

Mike Hodges

All Rights Reserved.

FADE IN:

EXT. PENTHOUSE APARTMENT - LONDON - NIGHT

Framed in the large picture window stands JACK CARTER,

alone, looking out at the night. He turns away as the heavy

satin curtains close, wiping him from view.

INT. FLETCHER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A blinding beam of light cuts across the room. One

pornographic slide after another hits the screen at the

opposite end of the room. They show a dowdy group in some

anonymous bedroom, frozen in various stages of a sexual

orgy.

GERALD FLETCHER is slumped on a sofa. His young wife, ANNA,

is curled up beside him.

SID FLETCHER, operating the projector's remote-control,

has the same flaccid appearance as his twin brother.

Jack Carter, drink in hand, watches from an armchair.

Clunk. Another slide hits the screen. Gerald is getting

turned on. He runs his hand along his wife's stockinged

leg. Anna shudders momentarily. She obviously finds his

touch repulsive. Carter watches Gerald's hand.

He laughs.

Carter turns sharply away to the cocktail cabinet. Lights

and sweet music happen when he opens it.

Clunk. The slide changes.

Still looking at the screen, Gerald continues.

Jack and Anna look at each other momentarily. There is

definitely something between them.

Clunk. The slide changes.

Clunk. The slide changes.

Clunk. The slide changes.

Sid laughs raucously.  Clunk. The slide changes.

Clunk. The slide changes.

Clunk. The slide changes.

Clunk. The slide changes.

EXT. RAIL TRACK - DAY

Express train plunges into a tunnel Blackness.

BEGIN TITLES:

INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY

The compartment is full. Jack Carter sits in one corner,

reading a Raymond Chandler paperback, Farewell My Lovely.

EXT. RAIL TRACK - DAY

The train speeds northwards. In the distance the stacks of

a lonely power station belch a continuous stream of brown

smoke.

INT. TRAIN CORRIDOR - DAY

Carter steadies himself as he comes along the corridor.

EXT. RAIL TRACK - DAY

A massive iron bridge crossing a river whips past. Its

mesh sides create an almost hypnotic effect.

INT. TRAIN TOILET - DAY

Carter tips his head back and dispenses drops into his

nose.

EXT. RAIL TRACK - EVENING

The train breaks from another tunnel. Evening light cuts

across the track as the train hurtles on.

INT. TRAIN RESTAURANT CAR - EVENING

Carter pours himself a glass of water and takes out a small

phial of brown pills. He swallows one.

EXT. RAIL TRACK - NIGHT

A chemical factory, brightly lit, passes by and the

outskirts of the city appear.

INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

The train moves slowly along the platform and stops. Carter

collects his coat and briefcase from the rack.

EXT. NEWCASTLE STATION - NIGHT

The street is fairly deserted.

Carter exits with other passengers from the train. He pauses

and looks about before crossing to the pub opposite.

INT. THE LONG BAR - NIGHT

A couple of youths are playing records on the juke box. An

old man sits in the corner reading a newspaper.

Carter enters through the swing door and a weedy BARMAN

comes to serve him.

The barman picks up a glass mug and begins to draw the

beer. Carter snaps his fingers at him.

The barman sighs petulantly, transfers the beer into a

thin glass and puts it on the counter.

A telephone rings. The second barman answers it.

Carter walks to the far end of the bar and picks up the

receiver.

The line goes dead. Carter hangs up.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - HALL - NIGHT

A key hanging inside the letter box starts to move upwards

and out through the flap. A moment later, the door opens.

Carter is standing at the bottom of a flight of stairs in

a worker's terraced house. He closes the door and climbs

the stairs.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - LANDING - NIGHT

Carter moves cautiously. His eyes scan the peeling

wallpaper, the mildew on the banisters. A roof leak hits

an unseen bucket with depressing regularity.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

An unmade bed with pyjamas on it, a beaten-up wardrobe, a

dressing table and chair are about it. Carter hears a

vehicle stopping on the street below. He eases back the

ancient net curtain. Two men in a Land Rover are looking

up. They see him and quickly drive off.

Carter looks around the room. On top of the wardrobe there's

an old shotgun. He reaches up and brings it down. Memories

flood back. He reaches up again and finds a box of

cartridges. More memories, jack and Frank grew up here. He

leaves the gun on the bed and returns to the landing.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Pitch black.

An overhead light snaps on to the face of a dead man FRANK

CARTER. He is lying in a coffin. His eyes are closed, his

skin made-up, like porcelain.

Carter stands over the coffin. He gently touches his

brother's crossed hands and folds the shroud over his face.

He exits, turning out the light and closing the door.

Darkness returns.

INT. 'LAS VEGAS' BOARDING HOUSE - ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT

The landlady, EDNA GARFOOT, is climbing the stairs. She's

well built, sexy, experienced. Carter follows with his

baggage. He watches her appreciatively from behind.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

The door opens and the light goes on. It's a big room

overlooking the road, furnished cheaply but comfortably.

Edna and Carter enter, talking.

Carter gives her the money.

Carter smiles and looks straight at her. Edna returns his

look, dead pan.

She closes the door.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Carter moves around the coffin as he shaves. His electric

razor is plugged into the lamp above his dead brother.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The coffin lid is being screwed down.

Carter stirs a cup of instant coffee while watching the

undertakers at work.

INT. HEARSE - DAY

The hearse is parked outside the row of terraced houses. A

youthful UNDERTAKER is minding it. He turns and looks

through the back window as a young girl walks up the street.

DOREEN CARTER is sixteen and, like most girls of her age,

tries to look older. She wears all the right gear but it's

cheap and doesn't fit properly. Her long hair is lank.

There's something sad and embarrassing about her appearance.

The young undertaker watches as she enters Frank's house.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The door opens slowly. Doreen stands there looking at the

coffin. Carter sees her.

She seems mesmerized by what's going on.

Doreen doesn 't answer.

Doreen nods. The undertaker coughs and thrusts another

screw into the coffin.

INT. HEARSE - DAY

The young undertaker is still in the hearse listening to

the radio. In the driving mirror he sees the Land Rover

moving slowly tip the road. It stops by the house. Two men

suss the scene and drive off.

INT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Carter and Doreen look at each other awkwardly.

Doreen looks at him nervously, shakes her head and fumbles

in her bag for a cigarette.

Carter continues, slightly indignant.

The undertaker puts the final screw in.

EXT. FRANK CARTER'S HOUSE - DAY

The undertakers struggle with the coffin down the narrow

staircase into the street. Outside Carter and Doreen wait

with two men. EDDIE APPLEYARD, a middle-aged man, is wearing

a shabby tweed suit, cap and black tie. KEITH LACEY is a

young barman who worked with Frank.

INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY

Through the windscreen of the following limousine Carter

can see his brother's coffin in the hearse as it moves

slowly through the streets of the city. Sitting in front

on fold-out seats are Eddie and Keith.

EXT. CREMATORIUM GATES - DAY

As the cortege drives into the crematorium, it passes the

Land Rover parked outside. The same two men who passed

Frank's house are in it. A long and expensive-looking

funeral cortege passes out as they move up the driveway.

INT. CREMATORIUM - DAY

Carter, Doreen, Eddie and Keith are in the front pews facing

the catafalque on which Frank's coffin rests. The vicar is

already midway through the solemn words of the 'committal'

when a woman enters. The clunk of her high heels cuts

through the silence. Everybody looks round.

Doreen nods. Frank's coffin sinks out of sight.

INT. CREMATORIUM COMMITTAL CHAMBER - DAY

Two men in long grey coats wait in silence. The coffin

appears. Expertly, they take it and swing it on to a

trolley. They push it up the wide corridor towards the

furnace. One of the men starts whistling cheerfully.

EXT. CREMATORIUM - DAY

MARGARET is thirtyish, blonde, attractive in a tarty kind

of way.  Her heels are too high and she is wearing a cheap

pair of sunglasses. She walks quickly away, down the

cloisters, past the memorial tablets and urns.

Carter comes out of the chapel and sees her.

Margaret stops and looks round. Carter joins her.  I thought

you weren't coming.

They face each other in silence. Margaret looks past Carter

and sees Doreen watching them at the end of the cloisters.

She turns away and starts walking slowly. Carter moves

with her.  Margaret continues nervously.

Margaret stops in her tracks and looks back at Doreen.

She's still watching them.

Margaret starts walking again, fast.

Carter catches hold of her arm and stops her.

She moves off rapidly. Carter catches up with her.

Margaret dithers.

Margaret walks off as calmly as she can, her high heels

clicking as she goes. Carter watches her disappear. Doreen

watches too.

INT. CREMATORIUM COMMITTAL CHAMBER - DAY

Frank's coffin is slid inside the furnace. Flames start to

lick it as the steel trap closes.

INT. THE HALF MOON PUB - DAY

It's a large room with a horseshoe bar in the centre, a

real boozer.  A handful of hard drinkers are already in

position.

Carter, Doreen, Keith and Eddie are sitting alone. Their

table is already covered with glasses. Doreen appears to

be slightly drunk on Babycham, Eddie on whisky and Keith

on beer. Carter is stone-cold sober.

Eddie and Keith look at each other.

Doreen watches them. She is getting very upset by the

conversation.

Carter stares at Keith, who is getting uncomfortable.

Doreen is now crying openly.

She runs off out of the door crying. Keith goes to follow.

Carter puts his hand out to restrain him.

Eddie stands up, cap in hand. Carter pulls out a wad of

money.

Eddie leaves.

Carter thinks for a moment, then leans forward to Keith.

Carter takes out his phial of pills.

EXT. RACE TRACK - DAY

The rain has just stopped. Bookies and punters lower their

umbrellas. Horses thunder towards the finishing post. Turf

flies in all directions as the jockeys whip their mounts

in a last desperate effort and the crowd roars.

EXT. TRACK ENCLOSURE - DAY

Albert Swift is standing by a bookmaker's marking bis race

card with a biro. A hot dog is sticking out of his mouth,

like a cigar. A man of about thirty-five, be appears much

older, probably from an excess of booze and women. He looks

up, and his mouth drops open, the hot dog falling to the

ground. He has seen Carter.

EXT. TRACK ENCLOSURE - DAY

Carter is pushing his way along the line of bookies, all

the time looking about him. The track loudspeaker announces

the winner of the last race.

EXT. TRACK ENCLOSURE - DAY

Albert pales. He holds his race card in front of his face

and disappears into the crowd. As he moves off, his foot

steps on the hot dog and tomato ketchup oozes out.

EXT. TRACK SADDLING ENCLOSURE - DAY

Carter stands alone, casting an eye over the punters. His

eyes rest on someone the other side of the saddling ring

ERIC PAICE.  Dressed in a grey chauffeur's uniform, cap,

dark glasses and gloves, he is standing close to three

well-heeled-looking men with binoculars and shooting sticks.

Horses for the next race are being led around the enclosure.

Carter approaches from behind. He looks at Eric closely

before speaking.

Eric swings round, startled.

Carter smiles.

Carter takes out his cigarettes. Eric takes one.

Carter flicks bis lighter and gives Eric a, light.

Eric smiles back.

Eric shakes his head.

Eric shakes his head

A track announcement interrupts them.

Eric stares back.

Carter looks across at the track.

EXT. RACE TRACK - DAY

Starting gates slam open and the horses leap out.

INT. HIRE CAR - AFTERNOON

Carter is driving along a country road. Ahead, two cars

are between him and a Cadillac with dark-tinted windows.

The Cadillac turns on to a minor road. Carter follows.

INT. CADILLAC - LATE AFTERNOON

Eric Paice is driving. In the back sit the three men seen

with him at the race track. The drinks compartment is open

and they are helping themselves to champagne. Racing results

come over the car radio.

INT. HIRE CAR - LATE AFTERNOON

Carter follows the Cadillac at a safe distance. It turns

into a driveway. Carter slows down and reads a sign by the

entrance: The Heights.

He drives on and parks.

EXT. THE HEIGHTS - LATE AFTERNOON

Carter comes through a wooded area. He pauses by a lake,

now overgrown with weeds. A big man stands tossing stones

into the water. Carter silently picks up a dead branch

then runs at the man. Carter whacks him on the head and he

collapses unconscious into the lake. Carter moves on towards

the house. MARTY and RAY the two men previously seen in

the Land Rover, are playing with an Alsatian on the spacious

lawn fronting the house. It's a Victorian building

surrounded by acres of woodland.

Carter breaks from the trees and darts for the side door.

One of the men notices and shouts after him.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - LATE AFTERNOON

Carter runs into the house and slips into a small service

room. Ray and then Marty charge inside but miss seeing

Carter.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - SITTING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

A game of poker is in progress. Seated around the table

are the three men with Eric at the race track. With them

is an elegant man, CYRIL KINNEAR. On the sofa are GLENDA,

a sexy-looking young woman, and Eric Paice.

Ray bursts in.

Eric jumps up.

Carter walks past Ray, blowing him a kiss.

Kinnear watches with some amusement.

Carter looks at Eric.

Ray closes the door behind him.

Glenda brings Carter his Scotch. He looks at her as she

sits beside him.

One of the three men sitting around the table with Kinnear

gets impatient. PETER, LES AND HARRY are well-heeled, middle-

aged, northern businessmen.

Harry keeps a cold, wary eye on him.

Harry looks at his cards. Glenda tucks her legs up, making

sure that Carter gets an eyeful.

Carter looks back at the table. Kinnear pushes in some

money.

Kinnear lays more cash on the table.

Glenda attracts Carter's attention again.

Carter turns to the table yet again.

Harry nervously puts another hundred on the table. Kinnear

purses his lips.

Harry looks sick.

Harry sweats and then smiles nervously.

Kinnear takes a wad of notes out of his pocket. Glenda,

shifts herself on the sofa.

Carter, getting bored, looks back at the game.

Harry sweats some more.

Harry smiles nervously. He counts some money out.

Harry nods.

Glenda speaks, but this time Carter keeps his eyes on the

table. Kinnear lays out his hand  a hearts flush, queen

high.

Carter smiles and does just that.

Kinnear leans across to pick up Harry's cards. Harry grabs

them and puts them in the pack. Kinnear turns to Carter.

Carter gets up from the sofa.

Eric opens the door and follows him out.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - HALLWAY - EVENING

Carter moves towards the front door.

Carter carries on walking to the front door. He opens it.

Carter leaves. Eric signals Ray to follow him.

EXT. SCRAPYARD - DAY

Huge metal claw catches hold of an old car and lifts it

like it was a toy. The yard is beside the River Tyne. In

the distance a train crosses the Iron Bridge.

Carter is examining a beaten-up Hillman when the yard owner,

BILLY LAWS, approaches.

Billy shakes his head.

INT. THE HALF MOON - NIGHT

A big, busty pub singer is performing on the small stage.

A trio on her right plays a good, grinding, up-tempo number.

Carter comes through the door. He pushes his way through

the packed drunken crowd to the bar. Keith serves him.

Carter watches the singer. The customers cheer and whistle.

Keith returns with the Scotch. He looks nervously around

and speaks to Carter quietly.

Keith takes the money to the till. The music grinds away.

Keith returns.

Carter watches the singer, then finishes his drink.

Carter makes for the door. The singer is now moving through

the tables. She pauses to give some man a kiss. Everybody

cheers.

The woman sitting with the man snaps. She picks up his

glass of beer and throws it over the singer; then grabs

her hair and pulls her to the ground.

Carter stops to watch. The two women roll on the floor,

punching and scratching.

Carter smiles and leaves.

EXT. ALLEY IN TOWN CENTRE - NIGHT

On the corner is a neon-lit snack bar. Doreen and another

young girl are sitting inside sucking milk shakes. Somewhere

a drunk is singing. His voice echoes up the alley.

Carter draws alongside and notices Doreen. He stops and

watches her. She hasn't seen him so he goes to the window

and knocks on it. She looks up and he beckons her outside.

Reluctantly, she comes.

Carter's hurt and slightly irritated by this rejection.

Doreen nods.

He lifts her chin with his finger and looks at her.

Doreen blushes and turns away. She rushes back to the snack

bar with the money to show her friend.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - HALL/SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

The front door opens and Carter enters.

Standing on the hall table is a small wooden casket with

an envelope taped to it. Carter pockets the envelope and

picks up the casket.

Carter walks past her into the sitting room.

INT. FLETCHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna is undressing. She's alone. Pulling the short black-

silk underslip over her head, she stands in front of a

long mirror, clad only in black panties, bra and tights.

She looks at herself appreciatively. The phone rings. She

flops on the bed and picks up the receiver.

A voice speaks on the end of the line.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

It's a cosy room. Carter is on the telephone. EDNA sits in

a rocking chair.

Edna turns towards him. Carter fixes her with his eyes.

Edna rocks herself gently. Carter continues softly.

INT. FLETCHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna is lying full-length on the bed.

Carter speaks on the other end.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Edna rocks backwards and forwards.

Anna replies. He continues softly.

INT. FLETCHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna unhooks her bra. There's a flash of breasts.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

The scene as before.

INT. FLETCHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna's hands cover her breasts. Her head moves slowly from

side to side, eyes closed.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Scene as before.

INT. FLETCHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna's hand caresses the inside of her leg. Her head rolls

from side to side slowly. She's breathing heavily.

CROSS-CUT between Edna's head rocking backwards and forwards

and Anna's head moving from side to side.

THE SPEED OF THE CUTTING BUILDS.

INT. FLETCHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Suddenly the door opens and Gerald comes in. He sees Anna

groaning on the bed.

Anna sits up abruptly and puts her hand over the receiver.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Scene as before.

Carter replaces the receiver. He still holds Edna's eyes.

She rocks to and fro. The rocker creaks.

The front door bell breaks the mood.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - HALL - NIGHT

Carter opens the door. Keith is outside. He's sweating.

His tie is somewhere round the back of his neck and his

suit is covered with dirt.

Carter pulls Keith inside and turns out the light.

A Ford Zodiac comes along the road. It stops. Four faces

peer into the darkness where they're standing. Nobody gets

out. The back window winds down. Thorpe's nervous voice

floats out.

Thorpe holds out his hand.

He hands Carter a railway ticket. Carter smiles.

One of the men inside mutters.

Carter tears the ticket in half and drops it in the gutter.

The front passenger door starts to open. Carter grabs it

and pulls it wide open. With all his force, he slams it

against the man as he gets out. The window shatters over

his head. Blood spurts everywhere.  The driver panics. He

accelerates away as the man in the back is getting out.

His foot is trapped in a safety belt. He's upended and

dragged along the tarmac, his head dangerously close to

the back wheel. His yells make the driver brake. In the

confusion Thorpe escapes from the car and makes off. Carter

spots him and begins to run.

Thorpe turns into the main road. He makes for the dance

hall and disappears inside. Carter follows.

INT. DANCE HALL - NIGHT

The dance floor is full, mainly with miniskirted girls,

their handbags at their feet. A rock band play mechanical

music to match the dancing.

Thorpe vanishes into the crowd circling the floor. Carter

arrives. He scans the place, then sees Thorpe as he

disappears down into the gents' lavatory.

INT. DANCE HALL - GENTS' LAVATORY - NIGHT

Carter enters. There's no sign of Thorpe. He checks the

cubicles until he finds the one that's occupied, then goes

into the next one. He climbs on the seat and looks over

the partition. Thorpe is sitting down looking at the door.

Carter quietly leans across and pulls the chain. Thorpe

jumps up, terrified.

Carter smiles.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - NIGHT

Keith kicks broken glass into the gutter while he waits.

Edna's next-door neighbour, an OLD WOMAN, watches. Carter

and Thorpe come down the street.

He knocks on Edna's door. It flies open. Edna is furious.

Carter, Keith and Thorpe enter the house.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - HALL - NIGHT

Carter, Thorpe and Keith are climbing the stairs. Carter

stops to pick up Frank's casket. Edna rushes in and slams

the door.

Carter opens the door to his room.

Carter shoves Thorpe into the room.  Keith follows.

Carter closes the door.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Carter carefully places the casket on the chest of drawers.

Thorpe looks longingly at the bottle of Scotch. Suddenly

Carter punches him hard in the stomach. He grunts and

collapses into a chair.

Carter tosses the whisky bottle to Keith and continues

wearily.

Thorpe looks at him, terrified. Slowly he stands. Carter

grabs him by the testicles and applies preasure. Thorpe

screams.

Carter applies more pressure. Thorpe screams.

Carter gives him a final squeeze and lets go. Thorpe groans

and slips to the floor, doubled up in agony.

There's a knock on the door. Carter lets in Edna, who is

carrying the teatray.

Keith nods.

Thorpe drags himself painfully to a chair.

Thorpe's plaintive voice interrupts.

Carter laughs and closes the door.

EXT. THE PANTILES - NIGHT

It's a large, new, ranch-style house, set back from the

road. The front garden is a landscape gardener's nightmare,

with its phoney brick and wrought-iron wishing well,

porcelain dwarfs, lily pond, the lot. Fairy lights hang

over everything.

There's a party going on. Lights are on in every room and

the rock music is loud. The drive is lined with sports

cars.

Carter parks and gets out.

Out of a side door a young man stumbles towards the lily

pond.  There, he promptly throws up.

Carter watches from behind a tree.

His attention shifts to the white Bentley turning into the

drive. It brakes sharply and the driver jumps out.

CLIFF BRUMBY has been to a police ball. He is impeccably

dressed in tuxedo and white scarf. Now he's hopping mad.

MRS BRUMBY cowers in the passenger seat.

Brumby roars up to the front door, banging it furiously. A

young woman in a party dress, expecting to greet a

latecomer, is stunned to see who it is.

Brumby pushes past her into the house.

The rest is lost as he disappears inside. He then powers

out through the side door

He aims a kick at the young man's backside, sending him

face-down into the lily pond.

Mrs Brumby gets out of the car and hovers for a moment. As

she approaches the house, people pour out. Brumby appears

at the door with a boy pulling up his trousers.

Brumby throws the boy out.

Mrs Brumby goes into the house and closes the door. Brumby

passes an upstairs window as Sandra locks herself in a

bedroom.

Carter pauses outside the front door and listens to the

row going on upstairs. He opens the door and goes in.

INT. THE PANTILES - NIGHT

Carter passes silently through the hall into the large

sitting room. Mrs Brumby is sitting in an armchair.

Brumby is still yelling at his daughter upstairs.

Mrs Brumby jumps.  The front door is open.

Mrs Brumby looks at her watch irritably.

Carter moves further into the room.

Mrs Brumby is uncertain what to do. Carter sits in an

armchair to make his point. She leaves. A moment later

Brumby storms into the room.

Carter doesn't move.

Carter still doesn 't move.

Carter just looks at him. Weighing him up.

Carter starts to laugh. He realizes Thorpe has lied to

him.  Brumby isn't his man.

Carter stands.

Brumby looks confused.

Carter moves to the door.

Brumby moves between him and the door.

Carter again makes to leave. Brumby stops him.

Brumby swings at him. Carter moves away from the punch,

then applies several sharp blows to Brumby's head and neck.

Brumby groans and collapses into the armchair, hurt.

Carter walks into the hall and out of the front door.

EXT. 'LAS VEGAS' BOARDING HOUSE - NIGHT

Carter walks up the deserted street to Edna's place. He

finds the front door unlocked.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - HALL - NIGHT

Carter enters cautiously. There is no sound. He closes the

door quietly and pauses at the foot of the stairs. Still

there is no sound. He waits. A sudden rustle attracts his

attention. Quietly, he moves to the sitting-room door.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Carter switches on the light. Edna is pressed against the

far wall, holding a poker. Her dress is torn and her hair

dishevelled. When she sees Carter, she sighs with relief.

Carter helps himself to a glass of water from the tap.

Edna looks at her torn dress.

Carter puts the glass on the table.

Carter takes out his phial of pills.

Carter swallows a pill.

Carter shrugs his shoulders.

Edna rubs her wrists.

Carter shakes his head.

Edna shakes her head.

Carter takes hold of her torn blouse and rips it open. She

is wearing purple underwear.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

It's Sunday morning. A girls' marching band rehearses on

the wasteground in front of the terraced houses. The Pelaw

Hussars march back and forth carrying their proud banner,

led by the drum majorette.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

Above the bed hangs a sign 'What would Jesus say?' In the

bed lie Carter and Edna. The distant sound of the marching

band helps them surface.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

The Pelaw Hussars keep on marching. The back of their banner

a stirring motto For Youth and Valour.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

Scene as before.

He puts his arm around her and moves on top.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

As the band executes another movement, a red Jaguar slides

to a halt outside Edna's house. Two men get out. PETER the

Dutchman and CON MCCARTY are definitely not local lads.

They look, and are, lethal. They try Edna's front door. It

opens.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

Scene as before.

Edna laughs. They start to make love. Gently. Below the

undulating bedsprings rests a large chamberpot and, beside

it, Carter's shotgun. Beyond is the bedroom door. It opens

slowly and the two men enter. Only their legs are visible.

Carter is off the bed, and Edna, in a flash. Edna screams

and tries to stop the bedclothes following Carter on to

the floor. Peter and Con stand beside the bed smiling.

Peter is a queer and dressed fancy in a leather coat, wide-

bottomed trousers and a loud silk scarf. His hair is

bleached blond. Con is more traditional, more butch. He's

in a camelhair overcoat, suit and tie. Both are in their

thirties.

Carter's hand runs over the carpet. It's going towards the

chamber pot instead of the gun.

Carter's hand finds the chamber pot and quickly moves on

towards the gun.

Carter pulls out the gun and jumps up.

Carter moves around the bed towards them. He's naked.

Both men are laughing.

Peter and Con back down the stairs. Peter looks up at

Carter's cock.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

Con is the first to emerge from the front door.

Peter follows.

Then Carter comes out, shotgun held across his chest.

The old woman next door chooses that moment to come out

for her milk. As she straightens up, she sees Carter. The

bottle flies from her hand and smashes on her doorstep.

Carter, never taking his eyes off Peter and Con, slowly

backs into the house.

INT. BOARDING HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Carter watches from the window as he pulls on his jacket.

The gun lies across the armchair. Outside, he can see Peter

and Con talking by the Jaguar. Con exits.

Edna, now in her dressing gown, enters.

Carter picks up the gun. He hands Edna, bis case and the

casket.

INT. REAR OF BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

Edna comes out of the back gate into an alley, carrying

the casket and case. Con emerges from his hiding place

holding a handgun.

Carter appears from the gate next door, covering Con with

the shotgun.

He takes Con's handgun and signals him to go into Edna's

yard.

Con unbolts the door.

Con goes in. Carter closes and bolts the door. He moves

quickly back to Edna and the car.

Carter jumps into the car.

The car roars off.

EXT. BACK ALLEY - DAY

Washing hangs behind each house as far as the eye can see.

Carter drives full tilt through it, collecting towels and

sheets on the windscreen.

EXT. EDNA'S YARD - DAY

The coalhouse door is getting a terrible battering. It

finally gives and Con bursts out. He runs into the alley,

following after Carter.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE FRONT - DAY

Carter's car screeches as it corners from the alley on to

the road. Peter is leaning against the open door of the

Jaguar. When he sees Carter coming straight at him, he

scarpers for the pavement.  Carter hits the Jaguar's door

at speed, tearing it off. It flies up and crashes on to

the tarmac as Carter careers over the wasteground. Soon he

is out of sight.

Con comes running. Peter is looking at the damage.

Con sees what's happened to the car and is not pleased.

EXT. BACK STREET - DAY

Carter pulls up outside a house and gets out. He takes the

washing off the car's bonnet, and throws it into a neglected

garden.

EXT. FRONT DOOR - DAY

Carter presses the bell. The door's opened by a young man,

SHAMIR.

No answer. Shamir watches Carter as he walks into the hall.

INT. KEITH'S ROOM - DAY

Carter enters and closes the door. Keith is in a had way,

his face like a piece of raw steak. He is lying on a bed,

still in the clothes of the night before.

Keith lifts his head painfully from the pillow.

Carter takes out of his wad of money. Keith's bloodshot

eyes watch him through the surrounding puff of flesh.

He throws some money on the bed. Keith tries to kick it

off, but it's too painful. He clutches his testicles.

Carter turns to leave.  Keith continues, crying and angry.

Carter shuts the door, leaving Keith shouting after him.

He falls back on to the bed, crying out in pain.

EXT. RIVERSIDE - DAY

A wide road runs alongside the Tyne. It passes below the

vast steel bridges that link the two parts of the city. A

carpark lies at the foot of the 'Iron Bridge'. Carter pulls

up and parks. He gets out and moves quickly.

EXT. THE IRON BRIDGE - DAY

The bridge is a, massive structure. The traffic lanes are

flanked each side by pedestrian walkways. It is here that

Carter and Margaret have arranged to meet.

They look at each other for a moment. Carter shakes his

head. He gently takes the sunglasses from Margaret's face

and folds them up.

Carter snaps her glasses in two and throws them away.

Carter holds her arm. She winces like she's been hit before.

Behind Carter Peter's Jaguar comes slowly along the bridge.

It stops. The passenger side is a gaping hole.

Carter swings round to see them, then swings angrily back

to Margaret.

He smacks her hard across the face. Margaret cries out.

The car draws alongside. A steel mesh separates the

pedestrian way from the traffic, so the two men can't get

to Carter until he reaches the end of the bridge. Con leans

out, his usual cheery self.

And with that he vaults over the handrail on to a corrugated

roof. Con jumps out of the Jaguar.

Con does and they race off.

EXT. WASTELAND - DAY

Carter arrives at the top of some narrow, steep, overgrown

steps leading down to the river road, where his car is

parked. He leaps down the steps as the Jaguar screeches to

a halt at the top. Con leaps out of the Jaguar and gives

chase. Peter backs the Jaguar and roars off.

EXT. RIVER ROAD - DAY

Carter comes running down the steps with Con not far behind.

He arrives at the river road. In the distance, he can see

his parked car.

As he nears the car park, Peter's Jaguar comes down the

hill. It's going to cut Carter off from his car.

A Sunbeam Alpine sports car waits there. Its engine roars

into life and it races out of the car park. It reaches him

just before the Jaguar and slows down.

Carter sees that the driver is GLENDA. The hood is down,

so he vaults into the car as it accelerates off.

The Sunbeam swings round, narrowly missing the oncoming

Jaguar, and roars away. Peter hasn't a chance. He's facing

the wrong way and has little room to manoeuvre.

Glenda laughs as the car swings wildly around a corner at

the top of the hill.

INT. SUNBEAM - DAY

Every movement Glenda makes is sexually charged manual

gear changes, steering, even braking. Carter can't take

his eyes off her.

The car screams off the road into a multi-storey carpark.

INT. MULTI-STOREY CAR PARK - DAY

Glenda really puts her foot down. The car hurtles around

each deserted floor.

She brakes to a split-second stop.

INT. PENTHOUSE RESTAURANT - DAY

It's one large empty concrete box with big picture windows

all the way round. Wires are hanging from the ceiling and

walls where the lights will eventually be fixed.

A tall figure stands at the opposite end, facing the setting

sun. He is just a silhouette.

Carter and Glenda enter and walk towards the man. The

silhouette turns as he nears it. It's Brumby.

Brumby picks up a black briefcase. He holds it up to Carter.

Carter takes a last look at Glenda and walks slowly back

towards the entrance.

EXT. MULTI-STOREY CAR PARK - DAY

Carter steps out of the elevator as Glenda's Sunbeam comes

down the bottom ramp fast. The car brakes hard and stops.

Carter opens the door and gets in. Not a word is said.

INT. GLENDA'S APARTMENT - DAY

The apartment is one of many in a modern block and Glenda

has only recently moved in. There is a mattress on the

floor. A large mirror leans against the wall behind it and

a film projector stands close to the window, which has

makeshift curtains.

Carter and Glenda are on the mattress. The bedding is all

over the place. They have just finished fucking.

Carter plays with her hair.

Carter kisses her neck.

Carter looks at the film projector by the bed and points.

Carter wraps his arms about her.

Glenda sits up sharply.

Glenda pushes him away and gets out of the bed.

Glenda leaves for the bathroom. Carter, curious, looks at

the film projector. It's loaded. He switches it on. A beam

of light hits the opposite wall. He settles down to watch

the film. The leader flashes by, then a title being chalked

on a school blackboard 'The Teacher's Pet'.  A zoom back

reveals Glenda, bare-breasted, holding the chalk. This is

followed by a long shot of a young girl, dressed in school

uniform, waiting at a bus stop. A car approaches and stops.

A woman driver offers the girl a lift. The woman is

Margaret. The identity of the girl not revealed.

INT. GLENDA'S BATHROOM - DAY

Glenda is in the bath. Lots of foam. The hot water is still

running.  She's smoking. She leans forward, turning off

the tap.

INT. GLENDA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Carter is sitting up on the mattress, amused by the soft

porn unfolding on the white wall in front of him.

The schoolgirl accepts the lift and the car drives off.

The door to an anonymous apartment opens and Margaret comes

in with the girl. Her school hat still hides her identity.

Glenda is there to greet them.

The girl is very awkward. Glenda tries to make her relax,

sitting her down and showing her a magazine.

Glenda brings her into a bedroom. She takes her own top

off and goes to do the same with the girl. She takes her

hat off. A close-up shows that it is Doreen.

Carter tenses but never flinches from what's happening in

the film.  Margaret comes into the bedroom and feigns shock

at what she sees. She slaps Glenda and they start fighting,

eventually rolling off the bed.

The apartment door opens and a man smoking a big cigar

comes in.

Carter sits up. It's Albert Swift.

Albert opens another door, looking for someone. He leaves.

Another door opens and he's in the bedroom. He sees the

two women fighting on the floor, but on the bed is his

prize Doreen.  Carter watches.

Doreen bites her nails and looks terrified. Reflected in

the mirror behind Carter is the image of Albert taking off

his trousers. The reel runs out and flaps like a fish.

Carter doesn't move. Tears form in his eyes. He looks old

and defeated. His is a wasted life. Then the anger that

drives him explodes again and he throws back the bedclothes.

INT. GLENDA'S BATHROOM - DAY

Carter, now dressed, moves slowly towards her in the bath.

Carter's fury bursts. He's out of control. He seizes Glenda

and plunges her under the bathwater, holding her there.

Carter lifts her up, out of the water. She is spluttering,

nearly drowned.

He pushes her ahead of him.

EXT. GLENDA'S APARTMENT BLOCK - DAY

Carter manhandles Glenda towards her Sunbeam. He opens the

boot.

Glenda climbs in and he slams the boot shut. The car

scorches away.

EXT. JETTY. TYNE FERRY - DAY

Carter parks the sports car as the ferry docks. He moves

down the gangway towards it.

INT. CAFE - DAY

A girl with a baby in a pram is having a cup of tea. The

door slams open. There's Carter.

The girl is numb with fear, unable to answer. Carter grabs

her by the throat.

The girl is frozen with terror. He lets go as suddenly as

he grabbed her.

EXT. BACK STREET - DAY

Carter walks fast. There's the sound of a phone being

dialled. It's the GIRL in the cafe.

Carter reaches the front of a betting shop. He walks in.

INT. BETTING SHOP - DAY

Carter closes the door. Race results and odds are coming

over the Tannoy. He moves into the shop until he reaches

ALBERT SWIFT. Albert is making out a betting slip and

doesn't see him.

Albert looks like he's going to be sick.

Carter sees a door at the back. There's a sign for the

toilets.

At first Albert doesn't understand.

This time it clicks. Albert moves to the door and Carter

follows.

EXT. BETTING SHOP BACKYARD - DAY

Carter turns to close the door. Albert runs for it. He

reaches the high double-gate at the end. It's locked and

he tries to climb it. No luck. Carter easily pulls him

down. Albert faces him.

He feels for his cigarettes but can't find them.

Carter takes out his cigarettes. Albert takes one.

Albert nods.

Albert doesn 't answer.

Albert draws deeply on his cigarette.

They drove Frank away in a car.

Albert nods.

Carter takes something from his pocket. There's a loud

click.  It's a. knife.

He falls to his knees.

Carter drives the knife into him with all his might.

A ship's horn calls mournfully from the harbour. Albert

leans back. Blood seeps from his chest. He pitches forward,

twitches, and is dead.

INT. BETTING SHOP - DAY

Carter comes in from the back and walks calmly through to

the street. A blind man is at the counter placing a bet.

EXT. JETTY - TYNE FERRY - DAY

The Sunbeam waits in the car park. Eric, Con and Peter

arrive in the Land Rover and park behind it. They go down

the gangplank to the floating jetty. A ferry is chugging

across the water.

INT. FERRY - DAY

Carter sits, watching the other passengers. A mother and

two young children take his attention. His look is tinted

with regret even remorse.

EXT. JETTY - DAY

As the ferry comes alongside, Eric, Con and Peter move up

to the rail. The passengers disembark, leaving Carter

standing alone.  He's holding Con's handgun.

Eric, Con and Peter hack slowly away to the steel shelters.

Peter, impatient as ever, pulls a sawn-off automatic shooter

from under his coat, cocks it and fires. Too late. Carter

is already safely behind the ferry's superstructure. Eric

shouts.

Carter is listening to all this.

Eric laughs.

Eric laughs.

Carter shows no emotion. Or are his eyes just that bit

sadder?  Peter lets rip again. Another window is shattered.

Carter ducks back, allowing Peter time to board the ferry.

Carter catches a glimpse of Peter as he climbs up the

ferry's superstructure to the roof. By the time he heaves

himself into position, Carter is waiting.

Peter is helpless, clinging to the roof, unable to even

raise his shooter.

There's a long pause while Carter looks at him, then he

cold-bloodedly shoots. Peter is blown away. By the time he

hits the deck, he's dead.

Con and Eric panic. They run up the gangplank, safely out

of range.

Eric signals to the driver in the Land Rover to bump the

Sunbeam into the water. Two hits and the task is done.

Glenda's screams are lost as the river wraps itself around

the sinking car.

Carter watches impassively.

EXT. BRUMBY'S RESTAURANT COMPLEX - DAY

Carter's hire car corners at speed into the high-rise

carpark.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Brumby and two architects in a site meeting. Plans are

laid out on a table.

The sound of a car screeching up the ramps interrupts him.

He strides away to investigate.

EXT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Brumby comes out to the top tier. On the floor below,

Carter, unseen by Brumby, has parked and is now making for

the concrete spiral staircase.

EXT. STAIRCASE - DAY

Brumby pounds down to the first level. Carter comes around

the corner.

Carter slams his fist hard into his gut.

INT. BACK STREET POST OFFICE -  EVENING.

It's a combined shop and post office. Carter is on the

phone.

Carter hangs up. He takes a can of film from his pocket

and slips it into a large envelope.  At the counter two

women are talking.

The envelope is passed across to the post office assistant.

It is addressed to Vice Squad, Scotland Yard, London Sw1.

EXT. SWING-BRIDGE - EVENING

The huge steel superstructure pivots on a large man-made

island in the middle of the river.

On top is a structure not unlike a small lighthouse, from

which a man operates the bridge. Carter climbs the outside

ladder. A man waits for him at the top.

The man hands him a small cloth package. Carter opens it.

Inside is heroin and a hypodermic. He wraps it up again

and hands over an envelope. The man checks the money as

Carter disappears down the outside ladder.

INT. BINGO HALL - NIGHT

The hall is crowded. The compere calls the numbers. The

atmosphere is tense as the audience look at their cards.

Someone calls, 'Bingo.' A buzz goes round the hall as

everybody starts talking again.

Carter enters, surveying the audience. Eventually, his

eyes alight on the person he's been looking for Margaret.

She's involved with a woman friend and doesn't see him.

The next game starts up.

EXT. BINGO HALL - NIGHT

Crowds of people come pouring out. It's the end of the

evening's entertainment. Margaret walks out with her friend.

Carter follows them and turns up a side street.

EXT. STEPS LEADING TO BACK STREET - NIGHT

The place is deserted. Margaret and her friend descend the

steps. The clop of their high heels is the only sound.

Carter follows discreetly. At the bottom, Margaret and her

friend chat for a moment and part.

Carter follows Margaret.

EXT. BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

The clop of Margaret's shoes is heard in the distance. She

appears. Carter is following behind. He slips into another

dark alley to get ahead of her. As she reaches her home

Carter's arm shoots out from behind a pillar. It's holding

Con's handgun.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

There's a big party going on. The music is loud. It's mainly

rich-looking middle-aged men and young dolly birds.

Different things are obviously going on in different rooms

in the house. Dancing in one room, blue movies in another,

etc. Kinnear flits from one to another. Eric Paice is on

the phone. He puts the receiver down and crosses to Kinnear.

Kinnear crosses to the telephone.

EXT. VILLAGE TELEPHONE KIOSK - NIGHT

Carter stands in the dimly lit kiosk with Margaret. The

hire car is parked alongside.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Kinnear listens.

EXT. VILLAGE TELEPHONE KIOSK - NIGHT

Carter into phone.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Kinnear is still listening to Carter. He looks over at

Eric, who's fixing a drink.

Kinnear continues listening.

INT. VILLAGE TELEPHONE KIOSK - NIGHT

Carter into phone.

Carter hangs up. He pushes Margaret towards the car.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - LIBRARY - NIGHT

The noise of the wild party is heard off. Eric comes into

the room.

EXT. DESERTED WOOD - NIGHT

Headlights, through the thick trees, as Carter's car comes

bouncing over rough ground.

INT. HIRE CAR - NIGHT

Carter stops in a clearing and leaves his headlights on.

He turns to Margaret.

Carter and Margaret get out. They appear in the beam of

the headlights and move further into the wood.

EXT. WOOD - NIGHT

Carter and Margaret stop.

Margaret is confused.  Take your clothes off.  Margaret

does just that: coat, blouse, skin. She goes to remove her

knickers.

Again she obeys.

He kneels on her, pinning her arms with his knees, then

stuffs a gag in her mouth.

He takes out the hypodermic, places it against her arm,

and injects the heroin into her. She struggles, her eyes

moving frantically about. She screams, but its muffled by

the gag.  Carter holds her down and she quickly goes under.

Carter removes the gag. He stands, picks her up and walks

into the darkness with Margaret in his arms.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - LIBRARY - NIGHT

Kinnear is alone, speaking on the telephone quietly. The

party is still going on.

INT. HOTEL BEDROOM - NIGHT

A bedside light is on. A man in bed is listening on the

phone.

He taps his cigarette against the ashtray. On his middle

finger is a large ring with the initial 'J' on it. He

listens until the line goes dead.

The woman beside him stirs. He stubs out the cigarette and

switches off the light. Darkness.

EXT. THE HEIGHTS - DAWN

Eric comes out of the front door. Inside the party is still

in progress. He gets into a Cadillac and drives off.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAWN

Carter is parked where he can see the drive up to Kinnear's

house.

The Cadillac appears and swings on to the road.

There's the sound of a phone being dialled.

EXT. THE HEIGHTS - DAWN

A long line of police cars move slowly up the drive,

followed by a police bus. They park by the front door and

around fifty policemen pour out. They move silently around

the building. A chief constable opens the front door and

walks in.

INT. THE HEIGHTS - DAWN

The police move through the house and grounds. In the

bedrooms they find groups of people in bed together. The

men in particular protest and are obviously concerned about

being identified. The police find evidence of drugs,

pornography and so on.

Outside, police are combing the grounds. In the long grass

leading down to the lake they find women's clothes. They

follow the trail until they discover a woman floating naked,

face downwards, in the lake. A policeman with waders goes

in and pulls her to the side. As others heave her out, we

see that it's Margaret.

EXT. THE HEIGHTS - DAWN

The house is surrounded by police measuring and

photographing, and outside the house are police cars and

ambulances.  The lawn is crowded with the party crowd. In

the early-morning light, they look like dolls.

Kinnear comes out of the front door with two plain-clothes

officers and gets in a police car. Sirens going, it comes

down the short drive to the gate.

INT. HIRE CAR - DAWN

Carter is driving along a coast road. The sea and a wide

beach lie on his right. Long rows of houses are to his

left.

The sun is still low. It's very quiet. He arrives at a

harbour and drives on until he reaches the end of a vast

wooden jetty running out into the estuary. It's a coal

loader for tankers.

This jetty is very high, a complex of wooden staves and

pillars, interwoven with steps and gangways. On its top

tier is a complex of railway lines, signals and black coal

chutes.

EXT. COAL JETTY - DAWN

Carter parks his car and picks up the shotgun and a bottle

of Scotch off the back seat. He get out and walks over to

the jetty and along a lower gangway. At the far end, a man

is standing. It's Eric Paice. Eric turns around abruptly.

He sees Carter and disappears up the nearest stairway.

Carter follows.

At the top he stops to listen, but can see and hear only

the harbour waters lapping below.

Carter looks back to the coal jetty, just in time to see

Eric scamper down to the level below. Eric sprints for the

roadway. Carter waits and then starts running directly

above him.

Eric keeps running. Carter stays always overhead. He's

playing cat and mouse with Eric.

Paice darts down another staircase to ground level and

makes for the roadway. Carter stops above the roadway.

Below, Paice makes for the parked car. Carter holds the

gun up. Eric stops and looks up.

Eric darts under the jetty. Carter runs on down the steps.

He can see Eric scampering along the row of cottages towards

the beach. Carter starts after him.

EXT. BEACH - EARLY DAY

Eric runs out on to the beach. The only sounds are his

feet pounding the pebbles and his hurtful panting.

In the distance, factory chimneys belch out smoke.  Carter

appears. For a moment he watches Eric stumbling along at

the far end of the beach. He climbs down to the beach and

starts running.

EXT. BEACH - EARLY DAY

Carter is gaining on Eric rapidly. Eric looks round and

panics. He stumbles and falls over.

He gets to his feet quickly and disappears round the

headland. Carter follows.

EXT. BEACH - EARLY DAY

On the other side of the headland, the scene is

extraordinary. The deserted beach is like the edge of the

world. The sand is black as far as the eye can see. It's

littered with rubbish. Several old lorries are sunk deep

in the sand. High, grass-covered cliffs flank it on the

left. It's deserted.

In the distance, a continuous line of giant black buckets

move, like cable-cars, out to sea, before they deposit

their load of coal slag and move inland again. The coal

mine itself is inland, hidden away behind the cliffs. The

sea, like the sand, is black as it crashes on to the shore.

Eric is half-way along the beach, struggling in the mud.

Carter closes on him.

EXT. BEACH - EARLY DAY

Eric nears the line of buckets and cuts inland towards the

mine.  Carter has nearly caught up. The buckets grind and

crash as they move along the cable.

Eric scrambles up the narrow valley down which the coal

slag travels. He is panting horribly. Carter is close on

his heels.  Near the top, where the buckets are practically

at ground level, Eric stumbles and falls. He is too

exhausted to get up.

Carter stands over him.

Eric just manages it. Carter pulls the bottle of Scotch

out of his pocket.

He throws the bottle to Eric.

Eric takes the cap off and looks at Carter. He's in a

terrible state.

Eric pours the whisky into his month. It spills over and

runs down his face.

Eric begins to stagger about.

Eric takes a breather and looks pathetically at Carter. No

mercy there.

It's disgusting to watch. Suddenly, he retches, but nothing

comes up.

Eric is choking.

Carter leans forward and with his free hand lifts the bottle

up to Eric's mouth again. In the other, he holds the

shotgun.  Eric chokes and retches. Carter has seen enough.

Carter raises the butt of the gun and brings it down on

Eric's head.

EXT. BEACH - EARLY DAY

Eric's body, loaded on to a a coal bucket, moves off on

it's final journey. Carter, laughing, walks beside it, gun

riding on his shoulder. The bucket shudders and grinds as

it moves along the cable. Eric's body moves of on its final

journey. It reaches the end of the line, where an automatic

catch tilts it. Eric's body drops into the sea. The coal

slag follows in a cloud of black dust. The waves pass over

and everything is gone.

Carter stands for a moment, turns and walks back along the

beach. He stops, looks at the shotgun, and decides to get

rid of it.

EXT. CLIFF TOP - EARLY MORNING

Below, Carter moves slowly by the edge of the sea. He raises

the shotgun to throw it away. High on the clifftop a rifle

and telescopic lens line up on Carter. A finger curls around

the trigger. On the middle finger of the same hand is a

large gold ring with the letter 'J' engraved upon it. It

is the man Kinnear contacted after sending Eric to his

death.

The finger tightens on the trigger and pulls it. There's a

quiet, whooshing sound. Carter drops to the ground.

EXT. BEACH - EARLY MORNING

Carter lies on the beach. The waves lap around his head. A

small trickle of blood pours out of a hole in his temple.

He's dead.

EXT. CLIFF TOP - EARLY MORNING

Kinnear's hit man coolly dismantles his rifle. He carefully

wraps it in a cloth fishing-rod carrier. He walks off and

is soon lost as he drops out of sight.

THE END

