A Christmas card vista is spoiled by a black line of

railroad tracks stitched onto the snowy landscape like a

scar pointing north to icy desolation. A phone rings -

An elderly man who lives alone in this rustic cabin -

a retired policeman - regards the phone, both expecting

and dreading the call. He picks up the receiver.

Henrik Vanger - at 82, even older than Morell - listens

to the silence from his end of the line in a wood-paneled

room as baronial as the policeman's was spartan.

There's nothing more to say. Vanger sets the receiver

down and regards a dried white flower in a 6" x 11" frame

resting on the brown paper it was wrapped and mailed in.

It's somehow ominous, like the dark storm clouds that now

burst outside -

Mikael Blomkvist - 40's - regards the gauntlet of

reporters he'll have to pass to get out of the building.

As he strides toward them, microphones and cameras swing

in his direction. Without stopping -

Feeling a bit like he's fleeing the scene of a crime,

which in a way he is, Blomkvist steps outside opening his

umbrella. A couple of the reporters come out after him -

He hurries off in the rain.

At a table with a pre-made sandwich and cup of coffee,

and a long court judgement, Blomkvist watches himself

fleeing the reporters on the cafe's TV. He's the only

one there who watches it - no one else is interested -

which only makes it worse.

He thinks about it ... shakes his head `no.'

A motorcycle dives down a driveway that burrows under a

three-story building.

Dragan Armansky, 40's, who looks more like a boss of a

New Jersey crime family than CEO of a high-tech security

firm, sits behind his desk, waiting with an older client.

The figure from the motorcycle crosses the lobby. From

behind we can't see him/her well, but can see wary looks

from others emerging from and getting into the elevator.

The report on Armansky's desk is 200 pages long.

INSERT: Printed on its cover: Mikael Blomkvist, a case

number and, smaller, its author, Lisbeth Salander.

The black-clad figure - from behind again - strides past

coworkers who look away.

Armansky breathes a defeated sigh, taps the intercom

button twice to say `okay, let her in.'

Lisbeth Salander walks in: A small, pale, anorexic-

looking waif in her early 20's. Short black-dyed hair -

pierced eyelid - tattoo of a wasp on her neck; probably

several more under her black leather jacket - black t-

shirt, black jeans, black Caterpillar boots.

Frode is only middlingly successful in concealing his

initial reaction to her. This isn't punk fashion. This

is someone saying, Stay the fuck away from me.

Outside the ICU, Salander sits on the floor like a dog

who won't leave the spot its master told it to wait. For

the first time since we've met her, she looks vulnerable.

The doors swing open. A doctor steps out. Salander gets

up to hear his report -

The doctor isn't sure then if he should talk to her.

Not allowed to go inside, she peers through glass at

Palmgren, who is unaware of her, or the nurse attending

him, or even himself. A spiderweb of tubes emerge from

his neck and wrists; oxygen tubes from his nostrils.

They're around the dinner table now, passing platters

around. Blomkvist notices his daughter's head is bowed

in silent prayer.

It is warm inside. There are fires in the fireplaces.

And Vanger himself is warm in nature, yet speaks quickly

as they come through the house -

Vanger looks thoroughly disappointed.      Or hurt.

Tea service and pastries on a coffee table separate

Blomkvist from Vanger, whose elderly frame is in danger

of being swallowed up by a wing-back chair.

There are framed black and white photographs on a wall -

factories and trains figuring into all of them.

She types Dirch Frode in the search window. Clicks on

the top result which takes her to Frode's bio on Vanger

Industries' site with its distinctive V.I. logo.

His official company photo accompanies his profile:

Uppsala University Law School ... Assistant Counsel,

Vanger Industries, 1965-1972 ... Head Counsel, 1972-

present.

She types in another search - Hans-Erik Wennerstrom.

Clicks on his Wikipedia page, which shows a photo of him

alongside his bio. She skims it -

President of the investment firm, Wennerstrom-gruppen ...

personal wealth of 12 billion dollars (80 billion kronor)

... 82-foot yacht, villa on the island of Varmdo ...

She does a third search, types:

Wennerstrom+Vanger Industries - and hits the `cached'

option -

There are only a couple of results that include both

terms. She goes to one of them, a body of text of some

old page with the cached terms highlighted in yellow and

blue, and reads -

... Hans-Erik Wennerstrom, CPA, Vanger Industries

Accounting Dept., 1971-1972 ...

Hmmm.

The children of the "thieves, misers, bullies and

incompetents" play on a beach. A shutter blinks freezing

a 12-year-old girl in foreground in black and white -

The same photograph of Harriet in a photo album Vanger

shows Blomkvist.

A photo of a much younger Vanger and 15-year-old Harriet.

Vanger nods as he regards the photo ...

Vanger nods again; is silent for several moments ...

The 4:30 train leaves the station without Blomkvist.

Anna gathers the cups and leaves with the tea tray.

Three generations of Vangers dot the grounds.

And we see the parade, and, among the spectators lining

the town's main street, Harriet with other teenage girls.

A clock in the room reads, 2:10.    Vanger and a few family

members sip afternoon cocktails.    Harriet appears.

She leaves.   He returns to the others in the room.

A car and a fuel truck, both going too fast, collide on

the bridge. The truck rolls onto its side crushing the

car and spewing gasoline.

Vanger and the others react to the noise of the crash.

Out the large window they can see the bridge and many of

those on the grounds trotting down to get a closer look.

People and vehicles converge on both sides of the bridge.

And, on another wall, forty similarly-framed flowers -

Blomkvist regards the forty ...

It's raining as an elegantly-dressed woman slows before

a luxurious apartment building. Salander approaches from

the other direction. Passing, she notes the four number

tones the woman keys in the code lock.

The door buzzes open and the woman disappears inside.

Salander doubles back and keys the same four number tones

in the Milton Security lock.

Opulent foyer. Security camera. Antique elevator cage

whose cables pull the woman upstairs. Salander comes to

an unlocked service door and takes stairs to a basement

machine room. Examines tangles of phone lines, meters,

Wi-Fi routers. Photographs them with a digital camera.

She climbs the stairs back up to the foyer. The front

door buzzes, and a man in a suit on the sidewalk pushes

it open, sees her, holds it wide enough for her to pass.

The man is a driver/bodyguard. He continues to hold the

door for his employer who now emerges from the back of an

idling car and crosses to it in the rain ... Wennerstrom.

The rain here is icier and more punishing.

They're eating dinner now in the dining room.

And for all that, he's no closer to the truth.

Blomkvist wonders why he ever agreed to come here as

Vanger refills his wine glass.

He kisses her but gets back no more than he would from a

statue - and steps outside.

The depot thermometer reads 0. Blomkvist disembarks with

two suitcases. This time, Frode isn't there to meet him.

He struggles with his luggage through the snow to a taxi

stand.

As a taxi passes a gas station by the bridge, Blomkvist

regards the Middle Eastern driver's eyes which regard him

in the rear view mirror.

The taxi deposits Blomkvist outside a cottage. From here

he can see Vanger's manor and couple other houses. The

taxi drives off and disappears into the snow.

Two rooms. Fireplace. Pile of wood. A realtor would

call it cozy. In truth it's just tiny and freezing cold.

Blomkvist unpacks. Puts clothes in a wardrobe, sets out

books, note pads, pens, CD's, a CD player, his laptop and

a small printer.

He flips open his cell phone to make a call. Gets no

reception bars. Hears a faint, plaintive cry and traces

it to a window, beyond which, on the sill outside, stands

a cat peering in. He opens the door, and the cat heads

straight for the kitchenette. Then looks at him.

He opens the old fridge.    No milk.    Nothing.

He comes out into falling snow holding his cell phone

out in front of him like a dowser divining ground water.

Moves around trying to get a signal. Can't.

He purchases milk, butter, a loaf of sliced bread, some

packaged lunch meats and a few cans of cat food.

He walks along the street through wind-whipping snow,

cradling the grocery bag, cell out in front of him again.

Any of the locals could tell him he could do this forever

- there are no cell towers anywhere around here.

Grocery bag at his feet, he dials a call with fingers he

can no longer feel on the gas station pay phone by the

end of the bridge. It goes to Erika's voice mail.

He hangs up, open the same pack of cigarettes from

before. Eighteen in there. Struggles to get one lit in

the wind and snow, hurries off toward the bridge.

As the cat laps at milk on a plate, Blomkvist tries to

get a fire going using pages ripped from a book. It's a

struggle he's going to lose; he's no Boy Scout.

Salander appears and keys in the four lock tones.

In the machine room again, she pulls one cable away from

the others and wires to it to Plague's electronic box.

The bell in the church tower clangs -

But it's a knock that draws Blomkvist awake. Having

forgotten where he is, he regards the cat sleeping with

him, then the room, and groans. He pads to the door in

the freezing cold. Opens it to find a rugged older man

on his doorstep with a handcart loaded with file boxes.

As Gunner expertly builds a fire in the fireplace for

him, Blomkvist works at unpacking the boxes - documents,

fat police reports, notebooks, folders, photo albums.

Nilsson nods, but isn't sure he believes it. Maybe he

took a look inside the boxes before he brought them down.

Blomkvist nods and hopes that's enough to put an end to

the subject. It isn't.

Blomkvist shares his annoyance with the cat. Nilsson

dusts himself off, satisfied with the fire he's made.

Vanger has ventured outside to show Blomkvist around

the estate. Smoke from chimneys rise into bitter cold

grey skies, weather for which Blomkvist, unlike the old

man, is inadequately dressed.

Vanger's look to Blomkvist adds, `so consider him a

suspect.' He indicates another house on the grounds -

Vanger points Isabella out. Slender, overdressed and

smoking a Sobranie, she immediately strikes Morell as a

woman as venomous as she is beautiful.

Morell follows Vanger down a hall -

INTERCUT: Blomkvist reads, "Approx. 12:05, inspected

missing girl's bedroom. Found - "

A purse on the desk in Harriet's room. Morell carefully

removes the contents: Comb, pocket mirror, handkerchief,

wallet containing a few kronor, her ID, and her address

book. He leafs through this.

Vanger is either a good actor or has nothing to hide.

INTERCUT: Blomkvist reads, "authorized our patrol boat

and two volunteer craft to begin 12:20 a.m. - G. Morell."

And neither can poor Morell with his Harriet case.

An unexciting social welfare building.

As a man behind a desk reviews   a thick file, Salander

reviews him: About 50; spends    money on suits, thinking

that might disguise his public   servant status; no wedding

ring; typical creep, as far as   she's concerned.

It is, but she can tell he couldn't care less.     He leafs

through her file -

Nothing from her.

Blomkvist puts a bottle of aquavit in Martin's hand.

The place is far cry from Vanger's manor. It's modern.

Martin, Liv and Blomkvist work on the dinner Martin has

prepared. Soft jazz music issues from somewhere.

They all glance away to a sound: A soft, strange,

wailing wind. Martin drains the last of a bottle of wine

in Blomkvist's glass and gets up.

Martin heads off to the kitchen. Blomkvist and Liv,

left with each other, seem unsure what to talk about.

Liv sets her hand atop her boyfriend's.

Blomkvist promises him with a nod that it will.

As Salander moves with a crowd toward the doors of a

subway car, someone behind her roughly yanks the strap of

her messenger bag from her shoulder -

She gives chase, pushes past people, catches up with the

junkie, grapples with him. He slugs her. She goes down,

but doesn't give up. Catches up with him on the

escalator, throws him back down it. The bag slams onto

the metal stairs, too, but at least she has it now.

She doesn't run. She waits at the top and watches the

junkie drag himself up and think about trying again. He

wisely decides to let it go, hops to the down-escalator

and disappears into the underground station.

Blomkvist sifts through a box containing some of

Harriet's personal belongings: school papers, textbooks,

a Bible, the address book, her wallet and ID ...

A knock on the door. He puts the box in a closet on top

of others, kicks it closed, opens the front door to find

a not unattractive woman in her 50's on his porch.

Cecilia regards Blomkvist's Vanger family tree on the

wall. Wherever he only has an old photo, there's a Post-

It next to it that reads: Recent Photo?

INSERT of Cecilia's photo, taken when she was a teenager,

and a Post-It with her name on it.

A tech tries to get beyond the dreaded blinking "?" on

the laptop's cracked screen.

Salander against the store window, cell phone to her ear.

Salander waits. Watches people stare at her like they

always do. The secretary comes back on.

Salander comes past a janitor waxing a long, otherwise

empty corridor. At the far end, she opens her new

guardian's office door.

As Bjurman reviews a McJesus invoice, Salander waits.

The thick atmosphere reminds her of all the others she

has sat in with school principals, shrinks and cops.

He takes her hand and places it on the crotch of his

trousers.

He grabs her hair and roughly pulls her head toward him.

Salander eats some toothpaste in Bjurman's private

bathroom. When she returns to the office, she finds him

calmly writing a check.

He holds it out to her, but when she reaches for it,

pulls it back a little.

She takes the check and leaves.

She sits cross-legged in the dark. Thinking. Or

plotting. The dragon tattoo visible on her bare back.

Blomkvist, who doesn't care for flying, pours two mini-

bottles of vodka into a plastic cup.

He sprays Binaca in his mouth. Then, careful to look

both ways, crosses the street to an investment bank.

Blomkvist approaches a desk.       The brass name plate on it

reads, Anita Vanger.

The accent is all British. She's been here much longer

than her home country. No trace of Swedish anymore. He

offers his hand -

As he sits, she regards him a little more carefully ...

She stares at him. He waits for the response Cecilia

predicted, but it doesn't come.

They sit together at a little table on the sidewalk.

She does, too.

(he nods)

Salander, on a park bench, debates with herself if she

wants to make the call on the cell in her hand. She

scrolls to "NB" and hits send. It connects.

