EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - DAY

A BOAT

Specifically, a garbage scow.

We see it from ON HIGH, chugging down the placid but mighty

Mississippi.

Head credits play over COVERAGE of the garbage scow. No sound,

except for an incongruously heroic score.

The COVERAGE is a little rough, coarse-grained; along with

the overbearing score it almost suggests an industrial film

rather than a feature.

One piece of sound -- the toot of the boat's horn -- is

obviously library. And not a new library either.

The garbage scow passes under a bridge spanning the broad,

sluggish waters, and proceeds on to its landfill, a steaming

river island. Disturbed gulls and other scavenger birds rise

from where they were picking through trash. Their squawks,

like the boat horn, are not quite believable as SYNC.

The head credits end as the anthemic music resolves.

EXT. SAUCIER, MISSISSIPPI - DAY

AN OLD HOUND DOG

lies on the weather-grayed and -roughened planking of a front

porch. The porch is half-shaded from the noonday sun. It is

quiet except for the chirr of heat bugs, close by, and, very

distant, many voices in chorus, engaged in divine worship in

a Baptist church sufficiently far away that vagaries of breeze

fan them in and out of audibility.

We once again hear the toot of the scow's horn, distant now

and played as real, not slapdash effect. At this, the dog

lifts his nose to catch the breeze, sniffs, and then, whining,

lowers his head to the floor and covers his snout with his

forepaws. He huffs briefly and goes to sleep.

We DRIFT UP to show that the dog is sleeping before the

SAUCIER WORM STORE

Your source for worms, lures, etcetera, etcetera...

We TRAVEL OVER TO REVEAL that the modest one-story structure

houses two establishments; its other front door leads to the

SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING.

A campaign sign in the window on the municipal side shows a

black man of late middle-age beaming and giving the viewer a

thumbs-up:

RE-ELECT WAYNE WYNER SHERIFF/He Is Too Old to Go to Work.

INT. SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING - DAY

We hear snoring on top of a low, steady hissing sound.

We are DRIFTING toward the door of the lock-up, which stands

open. The small cell is empty, its bed neatly made.

A KEY

We are ARCING slowly around a jailer's key on a ring that

hangs from a nail. The OFFSCREEN snoring and whirring

continues.

The TRACK'S SHIFTING ANGLE now makes the light catch a spider

web spun between the key and the wall.

POLICE SCANNER

We DRIFT across the face of the radio. The peaceful steady

hissing jumps in louder at the CUT: it is uninterrupted: a

transmissionless, crimeless, misdemeanorless idle radio hiss.

The snoring is also louder here. As we TRAVEL OFF the radio

we are COMING ONTO a pair of feet propped up on the desktop.

They belong to SHERIFF WYNER, tipped back in his chair,

fingers laced on his chest, head lolling forward.

As the MOVING CAMERA FINALLY ENDS on him, there is the ring

of a telephone -- muffled, not present.

It nevertheless rouses the sheriff who almost strangles on a

snore as he awakes, and then rocks forward to pick up his

phone.

The muffled ringing continues; the sheriff looks, puzzled,

at the phone. Now the ringing stops and we hear a muffled

voice next door:

The sheriff replaces the phone, leans back again, adjusts

his hat, and is about to go back to sleep when we hear the

front door open.

The sheriff looks and reacts with genuine, if momentary,

fear.

He manages to compose himself and give the intruder a smile:

Entering is an elderly black woman in a floral print dress

and fruited bonnet.

Wyner is not sure where this is going:

Sheriff Wyner now displays an exaggerated solicitousness:

EXT. SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING - DAY

Mrs. Munson closes the door behind her. She wags a paper fan

and mutters:

The dog stirs with a whine and ambles off.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - DAY

With a neatly tended garden. It is the last house on a street

of other similarly modest but well maintained homes; beyond

it the street disappears down a bluff. The empty space beyond

suggests a wide river, and indeed we can see the top of an

anchored, gaudily painted paddle-boat poking over the rise.

The paddle-boat is apparently anchored at the near bank of

the river.

Mrs. Munson is entering by the gate. She stops in the garden

and stoops to pull a tiny weed marring the otherwise perfect

row of flowers.

I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - DAY

Mrs. Munson lets herself in. A cat lopes up to her, the bell

around its neck tinkling, and leans mewing into her leg.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Mrs. Munson hand-cranks a can opener around a tin of cat

food.

The cat paces back and forth between her legs, leaning into

them and purring, responding to the snap of tin as the cover

comes off the can.

The can contains cubed processed gizzard in a gelatinous

medium like the stuff that clings to gefilte fish.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Above the fireplace is an oil portrait of a serious-looking

black man of late middle-age with a neatly groomed mustache

starting to gray. A couple of candles sit on the mantel below

the portrait, giving it the semblance of a shrine.

Mrs. Munson enters and lights the candles.

She shakes out the match and sits in a rocker and takes up

her knitting. As she sits she gives an audible groan.

There is the distant moan of a riverboat horn.

A gust of wind hums under the eaves; the candles below the

portrait flicker. As Mrs. Munson looks around the room,

vaguely towards the ceiling, sensing a negative aura, the

cat arches its back and hisses.

At this moment the doorbell rings.

She grunts as she hoists herself out of the chair.

I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT

She opens the door--

A draft--

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The candles below the portrait of Othar go out, sending up

thin wisps of smoke.

I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT

The cat shrieks and bolts out the door, past the man on the

stoop: GOLDTHWAIT HIGGINSON DORR, III.

He is a middle-aged Southern gentleman wearing a panama hat

and a cape over a cream-colored suit. He has dark circles

under his eyes. The smile he attempts, mournful yet courtly,

is wiped away by:

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

Dorr walks down the stoop followed by the old lady.

His fingers form the quotes.

His face darkens.

Dorr casts his hat aside and starts awkwardly climbing the

tree. He gasps as he climbs:

The cat backs away down a branch, arching its back and

hissing.

Dorr, on his stomach, inches after the cat, grunting:

The branch breaks, hinging down to slam Dorr face-first into

the trunk, from where he drops the rest of the way to the

ground.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Othar's portrait, upside-down, seems to be looking bemusedly

down on us.

An OBJECTIVE ANGLE shows Dorr lying on the couch, a damp

washcloth on his forehead, eyes rolled back to look at the

picture.

Mrs. Munson is entering with a cup of tea. Dorr swings his

feet out to sit up and accept the tea.

Munson chuckles.

He sets down the teacup and rises.

Mrs. Munson precedes him...

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - STAIRCASE - NIGHT

...up the stairs.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - DORR'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

They enter a small bedroom. There is a small bed on a brass

frame, a chair, a wash basin, and cheerful yellow chintz

drapes on the window. Dorr appreciatively takes it in.

Dorr once again wiggles quotes with his fingers:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

Dorr ducks while descending the steep, narrow stair in order

to avoid an overhead beam. He is followed by Mrs. Munson.

He pulls on a hanging string to light a bare bulb overhead.

He experimentally claps his hands.

He dry-washes his hands with enthusiasm, but his tone remains

mournful.

He starts to peel cash out of a large, well-worn billfold:

INT. CASINO - DAY

TRACKING ON A GARBAGE CART

On the cart is a boombox. It is playing "I Left My Wallet in

El Segundo."

It is being pushed through a casino empty of customers.

As the cart stops and a wastebasket is emptied into it:

WIDER

shows two youngish black men in the khaki uniforms of

custodians. Emptying the wastebasket is WEEMACK-MACKATEE

FUNTHES. He is instructing GAWAIN MACSAM.

As they roll on we see more of the gambling floor, which is

on something less than the scale of a Las Vegas casino. The

floor is not yet open and dealers stack and count chips at

the tables, pit bosses with clipboards looking over their

shoulders. Other dealers strap on visors and sleeve garters,

preparing to work.

After a furtive look around he plucks a chip from the next

wastebasket and slips it in his pocket.

SERVICE HALL

The cart jitters loudly on the dimpled plastic floor.

INT. CASINO - SERVICE HALL - DAY

The two men are entering a windowless fluorescent-lit office

area. A row of wooden office doors and one heavy steel door.

He stops to empty a wastebasket.

He bangs on the steel door:

We hear a deep chuckle and the door, steel reinforced, swings

open.

INT. CASINO - COUNTING ROOM - DAY

The two men enter, WeeMack nodding at the security man

(ELRON).

Again the security man chuckles. WeeMack picks up some fast-

food wrappers.

Elron chuckles. He is an enormously fat man; his chuckles

come from deep, deep in his chest.

Elron uses one hand to swipe crumbs off his uniform shirt,

chuckling.

Elron chuckles.

A man in a buttoned white shirt nods at him.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE - SMOKING FIELD SET - DAY

HIGH ANGLE

It is a ruin of a field; charred trees point bare and gnarled

limbs toward a gray sky; smoke drifts across the desolate

waste.

Something is bounding towards us from the deep background.

We BOOM DOWN as it approaches: a bulldog, running avidly

toward us on its stumpy little legs.

An OFFSCREEN male voice (CLARK PANCAKE):

There is an explosion that showers dirt in front of the dog

and makes it veer. Something strapped around the dog's neck

bounces as he runs.

Another explosion makes the dog veer back so that it once

again bears on us. The thing that has been bouncing around

its neck flies off.

Our CONTINUING BOOM DOWN has brought us to ground level just

as the dog arrives in front of us to feed at a dog food bowl

in the foreground. The yellow plastic bowl has a K-Ration

logo facing us.

We hear another OFFSCREEN voice (DIRECTOR):

The Director's feet enter in the foreground. He hooks the

dogs belly with one foot and hoists it roughly away from the

bowl. We

The DIRECTOR. He scowls down at the animal.

A man in a Hemingway field-jacket with multiple pockets, and

also a loaded utility belt, trots up toward him, his belt

jangling as he runs. This is CLARK PANCAKE.

Pancake is a florid beer-bellied man in his late fifties. He

has a full blond-grey Grizzly Adams beard and wears multi-

pocketed shorts that form an ensemble with his Hemingway

jacket.

The director is angry.

Pancake is unperturbed.

He hits a button on the radio on his belt and talks into his

headset:

PULLING ANOTHER BULLDOG

He strains at his lead, muscling forward as quickly as his

minder and his own stumpy little legs will allow.

He peers through the two goggly eyeholes of an antique leather

gas mask, its pignose breathing apparatus covering his own

snout. His phlegmy breathing is amplified by the device.

We TILT UP the lead to show his minder, MOUNTAIN GIRL. She

is a solid woman in her late forties with freckles beginning

to merge into age spots. Her long straw-colored hair is

tightly braided into Heidi pigtails bound with red ribbon.

Otherwise her dress is unadorned.

The director squints at the dog.

Pancake's manner is professorial:

Pancake stares at the director for a moment and, though not

doing anything, makes a sound of concentrated effort:

The director squints at him:

Pancake comes out of his trance, or whatever it was:

The dog looks up from person to person as each speaks,

twisting its neck to peer through the eyeholes. Its breathing

is growing louder.

The dog gets down on its knees, slowly, like a camel,

breathing ever more loudly.

The dog flops over into the mud.

The dog has started to convulse.

The dog's breath is rasping and horrible.

He stoops and fiddles at the straps.

He starts thumping at his pockets.

As he makes to scoop up the dog:

He goes back to work on the mask.

His hand gouting blood, he finally manages to get the gas

mask off.

A crowd is starting to gather and gape. The director barks

at a grip:

Pancake thumps on the inert dog's chest.

More people crowd in to look.

He pulls the dog's lips back, exposing its teeth and slobbered

tongue.

He sucks in a deep breath and starts mouth-to-mouthing the

beast.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY

POV

We are looking out from inside a football helmet; we hear

the super-present breathing of the helmet's occupant. Just

over the breathing we can hear the muffled shouting of a

snap count.

We are in a crouch position looking downfield. At the call

of "Hike!" we and everyone on the field spring into action.

We sprint downfield, the breathing becoming even louder. A

very big person downfield is sprinting toward us.

After several yards, still on the move, we PAN quickly around

to look back for the quarterback. Barely visible among

converging bodies, he is releasing the football toward someone

else.

Easing up on the run we PAN BACK around to look downfield

just as the oncoming defender is upon us and -- CRUNCH --

slams into us. A STROBING PAN leaves us looking up at the

sky. Our loud breathing has stopped.

After a long beat the breathing resumes with a raggedy labored

inhale. It continues irregularly. Another helmeted player

appears above us to peer down into our helmet. He extends a

hand to help us up.

HUDDLE

We are looking back and forth around the circle at our

gathered teammates.

All, with a simultaneous hand clap:

LINE OF SCRIMMAGE

Lined up opposite us is a snarling defender.

Once again, over loud breathing, we can just hear the shouted

count.

At "Hike!" we straighten to meet the defensive lineman lunging

at us. His mouthpiece clatters against ours and in horrific

CLOSE-UP he strains against us, his animal gurgles of effort

audible over our own ragged breath.

With a primal roar from the defenseman our POV tips back and

up, BOOMING DOWN to stop with a CRUNCH against the ground,

staring up. Once again our breathing has stopped.

After a beat a foot is planted on our helmet as a looming

running back steps on us in his charge downfield. He is

pursued by defenders some of whom leap over us and some of

whom by the sound of it step on various body parts.

HUDDLE

The same back-and-forth PAN.

This brings our wandering attention PANNING back to the

quarterback:

A very, very present VOICE (HUDSON):

LINE OF SCRIMMAGE

The same breathing and count.

On "Hike!" we sprint downfield.

The same distant defender sprinting toward us.

We hear low but very present a dismayed:

Our breathing is torn by rasping wheezes of effort as we

continue to run.

We look back.

Every player is looking directly at us.

A huge spiralling football coming at us -- too close, too

soon -- and--

BONK!

It bounces off our mouth guard and flies up.

We are looking forward just as

CRUNCH!

We are hit by the defender.

We once again land face-up.

Very steeply FORESHORTENED, right over us, we see the defender

juggling the live ball.

With a moan, our own hand reaches weakly up towards the ball

and the high, distant defender.

He finally gathers in the ball and securely tucks it, and

starts back upfield.

We climb wearily to our feet. We look back upfield just in

time to see the defender start an elaborate victory dance in

the end zone. He pauses for a moment to point a gloved hand

directly at us, then resumes his strut.

Shouting from the sidelines brings our PANNING attention

over.

The coach, face twisted with fury, is shouting at us and

using his clipboard to wave us off the field.

We trot toward the sidelines.

All of our teammates stare at us - some in shock, some in

anger, some in pity.

At the sideline bench our POV swings round as we seat ourself.

A hand reaches up to the mouth guard to pull off the helmet

and we

Our first OBJECTIVE SHOT as the player (HUDSON) finishes

pulling off his helmet. He is a big blond boy. His entire

body, including his face, is solidly built.

An offscreen Voice:

The boy, Hudson, turns to look, and we cut to one last

POV

The COACH is striding up, swinging his clipboard at the

camera: with a loud CRUNCH! it brings on:

BLACK

EXT. MINI-MALL / HI-HO DONUT - DAY

HIGH ANGLE

It is a typical sunbaked concrete strip mall with a Seven-

Eleven, a launderette, and a Hi-Ho Donut. The Hi-Ho Donut

sign shows a pink donut with sprinkles and says in much

smaller lettering: And Croissants.

A beat-up Impala pulls into the lot, pulsing hip-hop music.

After a long rumbling idle the ignition is killed. Both front

doors open. Two BLACK KIDS get out and look around with a

manner that is if anything too casual.

INT. HI-HO DONUT - DAY

There is faint muzak and loud air-conditioner hum. Glass

cases display donuts identified as GLAZED, JELLY, and FANCIES.

Fancies ooze yellow goo. The jelly on the jelly donuts is

developing a crust of age. The glazed also look moth-eaten.

One customer, a disheveled older man, sits at one of the

little formica tables staring into a coffee cup. Next to the

coffee is a brown paper bag from which a straw protrudes.

Behind the counter is a middle-aged VIETNAMESE WOMAN in a

neat white blouse.

The two youths enter pulling out enormous handguns from

underneath their windbreakers.

The woman stares blankly.

A man appears from the kitchen in back. He is a middle-aged

Vietnamese gentleman in a crisply pressed khaki leisure suit.

An ascot is knotted at his neck. He wears aviator eyeglasses.

In his mouth smolders a half-burned-down filterless cigarette.

This, we shall learn later, is THE GENERAL.

The two youths look at her briefly. Nothing else is

forthcoming.

The drunk looks up from his paper bag.

The General stares at him. As with his wife, none of it seems

to register; unlike his wife, he seems unperturbed.

He is pointing the gun directly at the General's head.

The General has swung his fist up to hook two fingers inside

the youth's nostrils. His gun clatters to the floor. The

fingers are way, way up his nose. Only one knuckle shows on

each finger.

The youth is staring cross-eyed at his own nose.

His friend is also stupefied.

The General still impassively sucks on his cigarette. The

first youth is on the verge of tears:

He raises his gun to start firing.

As he does so the General uses his hook-hold on the other

youth's nose to slam his head backwards, down into some

Fancies.

The door opens and a customer walks in, a semi-elderly lady

with a cane.

Youth #2, eyes rolling, wildly swings to cover the door,

then back to the General who has his friend's head pressed

into the Fancies, then uncertainly over to the Vietnamese

woman who is loudly yelling at him in Vietnamese.

Cigarette still dangling from his lower lip, the General

calmly plucks a pot of coffee from the coffee warmer and

tosses it into Youth #2's face.

Youth #2 screams.

EXT. HI-HO DONUT - DAY

HIGH ANGLE

The car is still pulsing hip-hop music. Youth #2 stumbles

out of the Hi-Ho, hands covering his face and sinks to his

knees.

INT. HI-HO DONUT - DAY

The General now has the first youth's face pressed into the

Fancies from behind. Without disturbing his smoking, the

General repeatedly kicks the youth in the ass.

His wife, muttering irritably in Vietnamese, is wheeling a

water bucket and mop to where the floor is covered with

coffee.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

At the CUT many voices are swelling in a song of worship. It

is a black Baptist church, and the music has great energy.

The white-robed choir finishes singing; a preacher takes the

podium.

Shouts of "That's right!"

More shouts of "That's right!"

"He caught 'em!"

"That's right!"

"Amen!"

We are TRACKING among the congregants, disproportionately

women, mostly of middle age and elderly, mostly wearing

elaborate go-to-church hats.

"That's decline!"

The CONTINUING TRACK brings us onto Mrs. Munson, wearing,

like most of her peers, an oversized hat; hers is adorned

with a great deal of plastic fruit.

"What he do?"

"Yes he did!"

"That's right!"

"Uh-huh!"

"Yes it is!"

"Amen!"

"Way outside!"

"Yes they do!"

EXT. CHURCH - DAY

It is a white clapboard country church. The preacher stands

at the door chatting with the congregants filing out.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Mrs. Munson is at the kitchen table. She folds a five dollar

bill into a sheet of paper, raising her voice as she does

so:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

We have CUT to the portrait of Othar over the mantel. He

does not answer.

From the kitchen:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Mrs. Munson has stuffed the paper-enclosed bill into an

envelope, which she is now laboriously addressing to Bob

Jones University.

There is a knock at the door.

The cat yowls and hisses.

I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - DAY

As Mrs. Munson swings open the door.

G.H. Dorr stands on the stoop mournfully dry-washing his

hands and obsequiously ducking his head.

He looks back at the long black vintage Lincoln hearse parked

at the curb behind him.

He turns and gestures at the vehicle.

At his sign, Gawain, the custodian, emerges from the driver's

side.

Clark Pancake emerges from the front passenger side.

The General, wearing a different but equally pressed khaki

suit and ascot, and with a smoking cigarette in his lips,

emerges from a back door.

Gawain goes to the back of the hearse and opens its hatch to

let out Lump Hudson, the football player.

Lump helps unload five large and oddly shaped instrument

cases, each man taking one except for Lump himself, who

carries two. As the parade of losers and misfits winds its

way up the walk:

Gawain nods as he passes by.

The General tosses his cigarette away and bows stiffly as he

passes.

He nods, passes.

As he hands Dorr the violin case:

Mrs. Munson sizes up the group.

He gives a sickly smile.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY

The General stands stock still, his nose an inch away from

the earthen wall, studying it, squinting through the smoke

of the cigarette pinched between his lips.

The rest of the men are opening their cases and taking out

the instruments. Gawain's case contains, however, not a

musical instrument but a boombox and several tapes. He loads

one of the tapes into the machine.

After a beat the General turns away from the wall to give

Dorr a look into which one might read anything, or nothing.

Gawain hits play on the boombox and the cellar is filled

with the fussy strains of baroque chamber music.

Dorr nods.

He spreads a map open on the sackbutt case.

The biggest feature on the map is a wavy, roughly north-south

pair of lines: a river. A boat icon sits at one edge and

from it a dotted rectangle extends inland.

Dorr taps at the boat icon with his fiddle bow.

He is tracing a street that parallels the dotted rectangle

extending from the boat. The street is lined by small house

icons on either side; the bow comes to rest on one of those

icons.

Bow taps emphasize:

The bow indicates it, and then withdraws.

Dorr uses the bow as a swagger stick to punctuate as he begins

to pace.

Dorr's smug smile fades. Testily:

Gawain hesitates, the question's obviousness suggesting to

him some trick.

Dorr's eyes close. A smile of feline contentment curls his

lips. He murmurs:

He has pried a fistfull of dirt from the cellar wall.

He crumbles it, letting it sift to the floor, and then,

pleased with himself, he smiles.

Lump looks around, then hesitantly raises his hand.

Once again Dorr's smile fades. He does not dignify the

question with answer.

The General acknowledges with a curt nod.

Clark acknowledges verbally:

All stare at him.

The music swells, supported now by a male chorus that has

the spirited manliness of the Red Army choir. We

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

The men at work, tunneling.

The cat sits on the cellar floor, head cocked, gazing at the

hole now opened in the wall.

Lump, in a sleeveless undershirt, glistening with sweat,

wields a pickaxe at the forward point.

At the mouth of the hole Clark Pancake shovels dirt into a

heavy plastic refuse bag held open by Gawain.

G.H. Dorr sits on a camp chair, one hand idly waving time to

the music, reading an old and yellowed tome with half-glasses

perched midway down his nose.

The General hops nimbly out of the tunnel and unzips and

steps out of his all-in-one to reveal, underneath, his neatly

pressed leisure suit and ascot.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Later, Dorr stands at the head of the cellar stairs, looking

around the empty parlor. He gives a nod down the stairs and

the men troop up past him, carrying sacks of earth.

Over the mantelpiece, the eternal flame of the devotional

candle almost animating his features, Othar seems to watch

the men as they cross to the front door.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

The men load the earth into the hearse.

EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - NIGHT

We are at the Mississippi bridge that we saw in the prologue

to the movie, but now, in dead of night, deserted.

The hearse is pulling up at the middle of the bridge and

dimming its lights. The men emerge; when they open the back

of the hearse to pull out the sacks, the cat bounds out to

watch from a distance.

We watch the men from HIGH, ANGLED DOWN along the masonry of

a tower that stands in the middle of the suspension bridge.

An ornamental gargoyle leers in the foreground.

The garbage scow is approaching. We hear the low toot of its

horn as it nears the bridge.

Lump is poised with the first sack hugged to his chest,

leaning over the railing.

The nose of the barge enters below us.

Lump releases the sack.

We watch it drop dead away like a bomb from an airplane.

It thuds distantly onto the barge. The next sack has been

passed up to Lump and is released.

The cat watches. Its orange eyes blink. Its pupils adjust.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

A PULL BACK shows that the cat is in fact back in the

basement.

Its POV: continued tunneling.

Back to the cat, watching, then turning its head at a noise:

At the head of the stairs, the cellar door is opening.

A whistle from the General and Lump and Clark Pancake scramble

from the tunnel. They whip a curtain over its opening and

all men grab up their instruments as Dorr, covering with a

cough, turns off the CD player.

The General, his ever-present cigarette smoldering between

his lips, tongue-and-lips it up and backwards so that it is

inside his mouth, which he now closes.

Marva Munson is heavily and carefully descending the stairs.

As the men come into view they are looking up at her, Lump

holding his sackbutt but still glistening with sweat and

smeared with dirt.

Lump looks around, saucer-eyed, then blows gamely into his

sackbutt. It sounds like goose farts until Dorr waves him

down.

It is directed at Lump, who looks down at his own sweat-

stained undershirt.

She cuffs him on the head.

WHAP! She slaps Gawain again.

He untenses after what seemed like the final blow, but --

WHAP! -- she slaps him again.

WHAP!

Dorr has her by the elbow and is ushering her back up the

stairs.

She pulls her elbow away and sniffs.

Gawain calls up the stairs:

Dorr's tone is soothing as he shuts the door at the top of

the stairs.

She hands him a thick, roughly whittled piece of cane. Dorr

holds it, looks at it dumbly. He is, for the first time that

we have seen anyway, non-plussed.

Dorr tries to summon conversation as the two sit with their

backs to the fireplace:

From Othar's POV, slightly high, we see them both twist in

their chairs to look up at the portrait.

REVERSE of the portrait, LOW ANGLE. Othar looks down at us

with what appears to be bemusement.

Marva Munson and Dorr gaze up at the portrait for a motionless

beat. At length, Marva Munson sighs:

Dorr's eyes remain on the picture as he inquires:

Prompted by her silence, he adds:

She gazes at the portrait.

INT. CASINO - DAY

TRACKING BEHIND A SASHAYING ASS

following a woman in a red dress.

The woman looks back over her shoulder, smiling, as she

continues to walk.

REVERSE PULLING TRACK

leads Gawain MacSam, pushing his wheeled trash bin.

INT. CASINO - GUDGE'S OFFICE - DAY

Gudge has his feet up on the desk and is filing his nails

with an emery board.

EXT. WAFFLE HOUSE - DAY

VERY HIGH ANGLE

We are looking down past the distinctive pylon-mounted yellow

letters: WAFFLE.

INT. WAFFLE HOUSE - DAY

The band of miscreants is seated around a table with cups of

coffee. Dorr's wardrobe makes no concession to the informality

of the setting; he still wears his cape and a black string

tie. His manner is more mournful even than usual:

Dorr's intensely mournful agitation is brought to bear upon

her:

They hand in their menus.

All turn to look at the General. He continues to stare at a

spot in space. He slowly releases some inhaled cigarette

smoke, murmuring:

All turn to look at Lump.

Lump hesitates, looking at the inquiring faces that surround

him.

A female Voice:

The men look up at her.

All the men are staring at her, agog.

The men stare.

There is tension in the air. Dorr clears his throat.

He chuckles.

He looks around.

Pancake lunges across the table, sending dishes clattering

to the floor as he grabs Gawain by the shirt.

He shakes him vigorously and rears back to take a swing at

him.

Gawain draws a gun.

Mountain starts screaming.

People look, aghast.

The other men pry Pancake and Gawain apart.

Pancake grumbles as he composes himself and straighten his

clothes.

He embraces Mountain, who continues to sob quietly.

Over the shoulder of the quietly weeping Mountain Girl:

All turn to look at Lump.

INT. MUNSON LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Othar looks serenely down from his spot over the mantelpiece.

Marva Munson knits; G.H. Dorr sits nodding over an ancient

volume of half-forgotten lore, reading glasses perched midway

down his nose. Curtains waft lazily in the summer night

breeze.

He removes his glasses and lazily twirls them.

Dorr himself is lost in a dream:

Dorr is still lost:

He comes to himself, focuses on Mrs. Munson.

He chuckles.

The Professor takes a small ticket envelope from where it

had served as bookmark, and hands it across.

Beaming, she takes two tickets out of the envelope and

inspects them.

There is a knock at the door.

I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT

Mrs. Munson swings the door open to Sheriff Wyner. His squad

car is parked at the curb.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The Professor's eyes widen with concern as he hears the

voices, off:

I/E. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT

The sheriff is tipping his hat and already backing away,

trying to make his visit brief:

He calls from the bottom of the stoop:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The Voices approach:

The two enter and Mrs. Munson stops short, looking.

The living room is empty. Even the Professor's teacup is

gone.

The sheriff, hat in hand, gazes about.

Once again, he tries to excuse himself:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - DORR'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The door opens and the two look in.

The neatly made bed next to the small, barren dresser.

She turns.

POV FROM UNDER THE BED

Top-teased by a dust ruffle in the foreground, we see Mrs.

Munson's heavy orthopedic shoes turning to pass Sheriff

Wyner's shiny black boots.

REVERSE

shows Dorr, cheek pressed to the floor, his teacup and saucer

under the bed with him.

BACK TO NORMAL PERSPECTIVE

Mrs. Munson is about to go out the door but notices something:

A corner of the Professor's cape, protruding from under the

end of the bed.

BACK TO DORR

fearfully watching.

HIS POV

The heavy orthopedic shoes approach, and then, with loud Mr.

Mogul sounds of effort, Mrs. Munson's hands and knees hit

the floor.

Her head drops in to view to peer in, her own cheek against

the floorboards.

We see the Sheriff watching and his HIGH POV of Mrs. Munson's

enormous ass.

Dorr makes silent hand waves to disavow his own presence.

Mrs. Munson roars with laughter.

With difficulty she pushes herself back upright, still

laughing.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - STAIRCASE/FOYER - NIGHT

The Sheriff is already backing down the stairs:

He opens the front door and calls up:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - DORR'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dorr shimmies out from under the bed.

He gets to his feet, slaps dust from the front of his pants.

INT. CASINO - GUDGE'S OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE ON A BOX OF CHOCOLATES

The box is being pulled open.

WIDER

shows Gawain in Mr. Gudge's office as Gudge, behind the desk,

looks at the gift-wrapped box.

Gudge is opening a card that was inside the box. Its floral

front says in gold script, "I'm Sorry... If I hurt your

feelings... "

Gudge opens the card. Inside is a hundred-dollar bill.

Gudge reads the card, flips it over to look at its back.

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT

Pancake is on his stomach, wearing goggles, boring a hole

into a rock face with a power drill.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

We hear the whine of the drill faintly here, all but covered

by the sound of the chamber music on the boom box.

The other men sit around. Dorr gives a casual glance at his

watch as the whine subsides.

Pancake emerges from the tunnel covered with grime.

Pancake leans against the wall and pushes his goggles up on

his forehead, leaving raccoon eyes.

Abruptly, he stares off into space.

Pancake's eyes regain their focus:

All look at Pancake. Quiet, except for the delicate chamber

music.

Gawain's tone softens:

Pancake darkens:

He peels off his coat.

There is a knock on the cellar door. The men freeze

momentarily, then scramble for their instruments. The General

flips his cigarette backwards into his mouth.

Dorr turns off the boom box, then calls:

The door opens and Mrs. Munson comes down the stairs, holding

a large plate covered by a checked napkin.

She takes the napkin off and carries the plate from person

to person; each obediently takes a cookie with a murmured

"Thank you, ma'am."

Dorr takes her by the arm and escorts her back to the stairs.

They have reached the top of the stairs and the Professor

ushers her out but stays behind himself. He turns to address

the rest of the men below:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The Professor emerges from the cellar. Mrs. Munson awaits

with her friend who is likewise togged out in fancy Sunday

dress and carrying a shiny black purse.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

Pancake is taking the boom box off the table to clear some

space.

Various paraphernalia are laid out on the table.

The cat sits in a corner of the cellar, watching carefully

and, it seems, listening attentively.

Lump stops putting in his earplugs.

He holds up one lead.

He holds up the other lead.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

A black town car idles at the curb. Dorr is just escorting

the two ladies out the front door and down the stoop.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

Pancake sets down the two electrical leads and picks up a

hammer.

He looks pointedly at Gawain.

He swings the hammer down onto the plastique--

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

--and there is the dull thud of an explosion and the house's

windows rattle in their frames.

The Professor, at the open door of the car into which the

two ladies have just sat, looks up at the house, as do the

ladies.

Dorr stares at the house, appalled.

He struggles for self-possession.

Marva Munson starts to get out of the car.

He urges her back into her seat.

He is backing up the walk.

At the door now, he gives the two women peering out the car

window a smiling but vigorous wave away, which they do not

heed, and then he enters.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The room is filled with smoke.

Othar, slightly askew over the mantel, looks a little huffy.

We hear clomping and screaming on the cellar stairs.

Lump bursts out, shrieking:

The General comes bounding up the stairs like a panther, a

cigarette burning in his lips. He lands catlike in the living

room, glides to the blubbering Lump, grabs one shoulder firmly

with one hand, and with the other slaps him sharply, once

forehand, once backhand.

Lump stares at him, shocked, his blubbering cut short.

More noise is coming from the stairs:

Pancake emerges from the stairwell, his hair singed, his

face and the front of his jumpsuit darkened by the blast. He

is clutching one hand with the other.

Gawain has ascended just behind to hector him over his

shoulder:

Pancake is pale from loss of blood and his pontifications

lack full conviction:

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

Quiet.

The two women sit in the idling car, looking at the house.

From the house there is very muted bellowing.

Still looking toward the house, Mrs. Munson offers a word of

explanation to her friend:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The cat, with a human finger in its mouth, sidles cautiously

to one side, warily eying someone.

The General, pluming cigarette in his mouth, tensed arms

extended outwards, sidles cautiously to cut him off.

The cat jumps.

The General leaps to follow.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

The two women looking.

The front door of the house opens. Lump, the Professor, and

Gawain emerge, escorting Pancake. Just before Gawain finishes

closing the door the cat slips out.

The door is yanked fully open and the General races out after

the cat.

The cat races across the lawn and, with no break in stride,

up his favorite tree.

The General follows and, also without breaking stride,

clambers up the tree after it.

Tree limbs shake with activity hidden by the leaves. We hear

the hiss of the cat.

The men are bundling Pancake into the hearse. Dorr calls to

the women before climbing in:

The cat leaps out of the tree and runs away down the road.

The General leaps out of the tree to land catlike on the

street, arms tensed, casts a look both ways, and then pursues

the animal down the road. We hear the retreating padding

footsteps of all six feet.

EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - NIGHT

A new day. The garbage scow chugs down the mighty Mississippi.

It toots its horn.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

CLOSE ON SCHEMATIC MAP

It shows the underground complex and, stretching towards it

in a line drawn with a blunt pencil, is the tunnel. It is

now almost to the vault.

A violin bow enters to tap at the line.

The bow taps at the vault outline.

The violin bow withdraws.

A bandaged hand enters frame and a finger-stump points at

the end of the penciled line.

WIDER

The men are clustered around the map, spread out on the

sackbutt case in the cellar. Clark continues:

A long, stony silence.

All stop and stare at the General.

Clark grumbles:

EXT. CASINO - DAY

It is the weathered doorway to the main entrance of the Lady

Luck. A hand enters to rap.

A low, chesty chuckle. The door swings open and Gawain enters.

INT. CASINO - DAY

RUMBLING WHEELS ON NUBBY FLOOR

A garbage bin is being wheeled across the empty casino floor.

WIDER

Gawain is wheeling it. He is approaching the tunnel to the

corporate annex.

BACK TO THE WHEELS

As they roll down the tunnel.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

Loud singing at the cut. We are looking at Mrs. Munson in

the middle of the choir, holding forth in song.

INT. CASINO - SERVICE HALL - DAY

Gawain leans back against the wall next to the vault door,

arms folded across his chest. Faintly, from inside the vault,

we hear the whine of a power tool. Gawain leans over and

punches the button on boom box that hangs from the rolling

garbage bin. The hallway pulses with "I Left My Wallet In El

Segundo."

INT. CHURCH - DAY

More singing, Mrs. Munson and the rest of the choir now

clapping as they sing.

INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY

The power-tool whine is louder here. We are looking at a

patch of wall.

After a beat, and with a loud rev as resistance gives way, a

drill bit emerges from the wall, spitting out bits of the

masonry.

The drill withdraws.

After a beat, hammer blows.

The chunk of masonry begins to buckle.

INT. CASINO - SERVICE HALL - DAY

The General opens the door, still somehow immaculately

groomed. Gawain enters.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

The gospel number rising to climax, supported by the organist

and the rest of the congregation.

INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY

Clark and Lump, covered in dirt and plaster dust, have started

stuffing bundled bills and small sacks into large garbage

bags. An irregular hole, about three feet across, gapes in

the far wall.

Gawain punches off the boombox, looking at all the money.

Clark suddenly freezes in the act of collecting money. He

straightens slowly.

He stands stock still, wincing, gazing off into space.

He whispers hoarsely, urgently:

The other men look at him.

Clark's voice is still hoarse. He does small knee bends of

urgency:

INT. CASINO - DAY

We are CLOSE ON Gawain peering anxiously to one side.

He turns and peers the other way.

We hear a toilet flush and, after a beat, Clark emerges from

the men's room door next to which Gawain stands. His manner

is now completely relaxed.

They start walking back to the vault.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

The choir finishes a number and sits -- all except for Marva

Munson, who unties the knot on her robe at the nape of her

neck, slips it off and, with murmured goodbyes, slips away.

INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY

As the two men enter Clark is still holding forth:

They stop short, looking:

The General and Lump are standing in the middle of the floor,

stock still, each clutching a bag of money, staring up at

the same corner of the ceiling.

Lump turns to Clark and Gawain.

Gawain and Clark join them in the middle of the vault and

look up at the corner of the ceiling.

A small video camera, aimed squarely at the four men.

THROUGH THE CAMERA

Black-and-white video, very WIDE ANGLE HIGH SHOT, of the

four motionless men below goggling up at the lens. Smoke

plumes from the General's cigarette.

BACK TO NORMAL PERSPECTIVE

He slips on his reading glasses as he gets a leg up on a

shelf just below the camera and hoists himself. He peers in

at the lens.

THROUGH THE LENS

Clark looming into EXTREME CLOSE SHOT.

NORMAL PERSPECTIVE

He is fingering the back of the camera.

Down below, Gawain looks at the wire snaking along the seam

of wall and ceiling. At the opposite corner it travels down

the joint of the two walls.

He traces its path down and then across one wall at chair-

rail height towards the door. The other men follow in an

anxious herd as he traces one finger along it.

Just before reaching the vault door the wire goes through

the wall in a hole finished off with a grommet. Gawain goes

out the vault door...

INT. CASINO - SERVICE HALL - DAY

...and picks up the line where it emerges on the other side,

travels down to the joint of wall and floor, and then

continues along the floor. Gawain follows it and the other

men continue to follow him.

He traces it anxiously down the hall in a hunched lope. The

other men scuttle behind into...

INT. CASINO - MONITOR ROOM - DAY

The wire winds around into the room, back up to chair-rail

height, along one wall, behind some cabinetry which Gawain

hurries past to find it again on the far side, and then down

to a video recorder.

It is not, however, hooked up to the video recorder: its

pronged end swings loose just by where it would be plugged

in.

Inside the video recorder is a casette, which Gawain ejects.

The men crowd to look over his shoulder as he examines it:

"Shevann's Schvanz".

There is a pile of other videos by the monitor: "Charlayne

and the Chocolate Factory," "Big Dick Blaque's Big Night

Out," "Lemme Tell Ya 'Bout Black Chicks," "Anus & Andy."

Just next to the pile is an old bowl of Kocoa Krispies.

INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY

The General climbs into the tunnel with a garbage bagful of

money, followed by Lump, likewise encumbered. Lump hands

back out a satchel to Gawain, who sets it on the vault floor

by the hole. From the way he handles it, it is quite heavy.

Pancake, also with a bag of money, is getting ready to climb

in:

Lump hands Gawain a smaller, lighter satchel which he likewise

sets on the floor.

EXT. CHURCH - DAY

Mrs. Munson is leaving, with singing still audible from the

service that continues inside.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY

We are looking from inside the tunnel towards its mouth,

where the Professor stoops slightly to peer in, anxiously

dry-washing his hands.

A REVERSE shows the hunched-over men scuttling along the

tunnel towards us, holding large garbage sacks.

He gives a hand down to each man as he exits the tunnel.

INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY

Gawain, left behind, is muttering to himself as he uses a

trowel and other instruments from his satchel to patch up

the hole at his end of the tunnel.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - DAY

Mrs. Munson is letting herself in.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY

The men are sitting around the table, champagne glasses

raised. On the table sits the money, stacked in orderly piles.

They clink.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Upstairs Mrs. Munson runs water into a teapot, humming to

herself.

INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY

Having finished patching, Gawain starts painting. He turns

on his boombox, and out comes the big bassy "I Left My Wallet

in El Segundo."

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY

The men, having drunk deep, are setting down their glasses.

Pancake looks at his watch with some concern.

Dorr looks at his watch.

FROM INSIDE THE TUNNEL

Looking toward the mouth. The men stoop over and peek

fearfully in.

They again stand upright. A silence.

Dorr clears his throat.

INT. TUNNEL - DAY

Pancake, hunched over, scurries along the tunnel. He reaches

the remnants of a large rock, where the tunnel grows smaller.

He drops to crawl position and elbows his way forward,

toolbelt clanking along.

We are getting closer and closer to a muffled but thuddingly

bassy "I Left My Wallet in El Segundo."

INT. CASINO - VAULT - DAY

The music loudly present at the cut. Gawain takes a handheld

blowdryer out of his satchel and flips it on, directing it

at the fresh paint on the wall whose repairs are now

invisible.

INT. TUNNEL - DAY

Music once again muffled. Pancake has reached a little LED-

displaying timer with leads trailing off of it.

He grabs it, puts on his reading glasses, squints.

The display shows: TIME REMAINING: 00:12.

The colons in the display rhythmically blink, but the number

does not advance. For some reason, stuck.

He reaches to his tool belt, pulls out his Leatherman.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Munson is setting places at a large table. There are

about a dozen place settings.

INT. TUNNEL - DAY

Pancake now has a mini-mag light clenched between his teeth,

aimed down at the timer. He opens the phillips head on his

Leatherman but abruptly stops and stares off into space.

He is squinting with pain.

The muffled hip-hop song is beginning to recede.

INT. VAULT - DAY

Gawain is wheeling his garbage cart out the door. The vault

is completely empty but looks completely undisturbed.

He closes the heavy vault door behind him, leaving quiet.

INT. TUNNEL - DAY

Quiet here as well, now. Pancake's moan trails off to nothing.

He relaxes. The moment, whatever it was, has passed.

He looks back down at the unit, flicks it with his finger,

and it emits a soft beep.

He squints at the back of the unit.

As it beeps again, he turns the unit over to look at its

face.

The readout now says: 00:10.

As he watches, peering down through the bottom of his glasses,

it continues to advance with a beep as each second slips by:

9... 8...

His eyes widen and he frantically shakes the unit. It

continues beeping. He briefly and sloppily tries to fit the

phillips head into one of the four screws on the back of the

unit but immediately gives up and starts a panicked wriggle

back up the tunnel, whimpering.

INT. CASINO - DAY

Gawain is wheeling his garbage cart past Elron.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Munson is placing the last piece of silverware, just

so.

INT. TUNNEL - DAY

Pancake is in full panicked awkward flight as--

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY

--BOOM! We CUT TO the cellar and Pancake is shot out the

tunnel like a human cannonball, trailing a comet-tail of

dirt, dust, and debris that wafts what were neatly stacked

bills up into the air.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The portrait of Othar jostles back to square. He now looks a

little angry.

The cat arches her back, emitting a startled yowl.

Mrs. Munson stands, frozen, then looks slowly around, trying

to assimilate what has just happened.

INT. CASINO - DAY

Gawain and Elron are staring at each other, frozen, also

reacting to what just happened.

Finally:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Munson is looking at the cellar door. Dust drifts out

from under it.

She takes a slow step towards it. Another step. She opens

the door.

There is no visibility in the cellar due to swirling clay

dust.

She takes one step down the stairs, waving at the air in

front of her face.

Paper money wafts in and out of the dust.

We hear Voices:

The clearing dust reveals the caped Professor anxiously

dancing from foot to foot, gathering money out of the air.

As he reaches up to grab a bill that has him facing up in

Mrs. Munson's direction, he freezes.

His POV reveals her through dissipating dust.

There is a long beat, through which all stare at her.

Further dissipation of the dust reveals how much money there

is, settling now to cover the floor of the cellar.

We hear the ring of the doorbell.

She points at the General who, in the excitement, has

neglected to hide his ever-present cigarette.

She clomps upstairs and shuts the cellar door.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM

We PULL HER towards the front door, angry and lost in thought.

Her look softens somewhat as she opens the door.

It is a chattering infestation of hens: all of her friends

from church push in wearing church dresses and elaborate

hats.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY

The men are still frozen looking up toward the door. The

muted cackle of church ladies.

The men gradually unfreeze.

He turns to Dorr, near tears:

Dorr rubs his hands anxiously, thinking:

The General remains staring up at the door, frozen but for

the smoke pluming from the cigarette in his mouth.

The gaze of all the men drifts back up to the cellar door,

and we look down at them, gazing up.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The chattering ladies are gathered at the table, Mrs. Munson

pouring them tea.

The cellar door creaks noisily -- one might almost say

gothically -- ajar, and the Professor peers out with an

ingratiating smile.

The chattering abates and the ladies all look at him. His

smile broadens into ghastliness and he crooks a finger toward

Mrs. Munson.

He nods meekly and retreats, easing the door creakily shut.

The ladies look inquisitively at Mrs. Munson as his footsteps

are heard descending the stair.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR DAY

As the Professor rejoins the still staring and silent group.

The money has been picked up and is once again in stacks

upon the table.

Explaining, he indicates upstairs with a jerk of the head:

The men nod, murmuring.

The cellar door squeaks open. There is the clomp of careful

footsteps on the stair.

Using only tongue and teeth, the General flips his smoking

cigarette inwards into his mouth and gives Mrs. Munson his

usual deadpan look.

She halts halfway down the stairs, still wearing an apron

and holding a spatula.

She turns to head back up the stairs but abruptly stops to

turn and give the General a hard look which he innocently

returns.

She turns again and clomps back up the stairs.

The General opens his mouth and, again without using his

hands, restores his cigarette to its usual place on his lower

lip.

Lump is fretful:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The cellar door opens and the men troop out, G.H. Dorr leading

and the other men following rather sheepishly behind.

Lump, Pancake, and the General sit and awkwardly accept dainty

teacups.

The Professor rises, spreads his hand, and pronounces:

CLOSE-UPS of the various ladies, some sipping tea or slowly

munching biscuits, but all eyes glued to the declaiming man

in the cape.

Murmuring Voice:

A slurp of tea from another quarter.

Dorr bears on:

A long silence.

Then, scattered:

A lady holding a teacup turns to the General:

The General stares at her.

We hear the front door opening and Gawain enters, still

wearing his Lady Luck custodial uniform. He looks.

His POV: church ladies with teacups and his comrades seated

among them, also holding teacups and scones.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - FOYER - LATER (EVENING)

The bustling and chattering ladies are just finishing leaving;

Mrs. Munson is seeing them off at the door. Evening is

gathering, and we hear the lonely toot of the distant garbage

scow.

The men as well stand by the door and, affecting good cheer,

wave off the departing ladies.

Mrs. Munson closes the door and her manner instantly darkens.

The General stiffly bows:

The Professor, nodding, smiling, and dry-washing his hands,

continues to look at Mrs. Munson, though his story,

apparently, has ended.

She returns his ingratiating look with a stare.

Dorr's smile fades.

Under her stare, he elaborates:

She thinks, decides.

A chorus of gasps.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - EVENING

He escorts her to sit beneath the portrait of Othar, sits

across from her, and leans confidentially in.

He agonizes. The words do not come easy.

The Professor, warming, has resumed dry-washing his hands:

Mrs. Munson nods, musing.

Her gaze drifts around the room, a smile beginning to warm

her face. The smile freezes, though, as her look catches on

something.

Her POV: Othar, above the mantle, looks down with a

disapproving scowl.

Dorr is taken aback:

The Professor is incredulous:

She rises.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

The men all sit around the card table, lit from below by an

oil lamp. The General is neatly packing the stacks of

banknotes into the sackbutt case.

The group lapses into silence, considering. Even Gawain needs

a moment to digest the horror that he himself has proposed.

The Professor is solemn:

He turns to the General.

The General grunts as he closes the clasps on the sackbutt

case full of money:

The men murmur.

He looks around.

He looks around the table. Silence. No volunteers.

He takes a broom leaning against the wall, bends back and

snaps a handful of its bristles.

Pancake grumbles as he counts out five bristles, takes one

and snaps it in half, displaying the short straw to the group,

and then hands the four long and one short to the Professor:

With a flap of his cape the professor jumbles the straws and

encloses them in one hand.

Sweaty CLOSE-UPS. Each man stares at the straws. Some

hesitant, some resolute, they draw:

First, the General: long straw. His reaction: impassive.

Next, Lump: long straw. His reaction: relieved.

Next, Pancake. Long straw.

Two straws left. Gawain stares at them, licks his lips.

He reaches for one straw, touches it, hesitates.

He touches the other straw, hesitates.

He goes back to the first straw, closes his hand around it,

closes his eyes, and pulls.

He lifts the straw into frame before his squeezed-shut eyes,

raises his eyebrows, and slowly opens fluttering eyelids to

look: short straw.

The Professor, smiling, opens his fist to confirm that he

holds the last long one.

Gawain moans.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

PULLING HIM UP THE STAIRS

Slowly, slowly, Gawain mounts the cellar stairs. Behind him,

gathered in a semi-circle and looking up from the foot of

the stairs, the other men wait.

As he plants one plodding foot in front of the other Gawain

raises the gun, slides back its primer to make sure there is

a round in the chamber, and then slides it shut as he reaches

the door.

INT. MUNSON - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

In the foreground Mrs. Munson sits knitting, humming an old

temperance tune. In the background the cellar door swings

open. Marva Munson doesn't notice; her knitting needles

continue their rhythmic clack.

We PULL Gawain, gun at the ready, as he takes slow, cautious

steps across the floor.

We INTERCUT his POV of the back of the old lady's head, bowed

over her knitting.

As Gawain passes the sofa he picks up a cushion and buries

in it his hand holding the gun.

He looks back up at the old lady. But now, still cautiously

approaching, he cocks his head, his expression bemused.

HIS POV

nearing the old lady is now different somehow. The perspective

is somewhat lower; the humming woman sounds not quite the

same; the rocking chair and the room itself are subtly

different.

WHEN WE CUT BACK TO GAWAIN

he is a runty, TEN-YEAR-OLD CHILD walking slowly across the

floor; he is cradling not a gun in a pillow but a squirming

little puppy dog.

The dog yips; the woman turns to look at us. It is not Mrs.

Munson, but another black woman of about the same age.

WHAP! She cuffs him on the side of his head.

WHAP! Another slap.

WHAP!

The little boy, weeping, throws his arms around his mother:

WHAP!

WHAP! Gawain's little brothers and sisters, drawn by the

commotion, have gathered excitedly to watch.

WHAP! WHAP! Gawain is sobbing:

Now it is the adult Gawain blubbering.

The clack of knitting needles stops and Mrs. Munson turns to

look.

He surreptitiously slides the gun into his pocket, sniveling:

WHAP! She cuffs him on the side of the head.

WHAP!

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

Gawain is tramping down the stairs.

The men are stunned.

Gawain shoves the gun toward Pancake.

He is waving the gun.

He shoves Gawain.

He shoves him back.

Pancake shoves:

They are shoving each other now, getting into it.

He lunges at him with a bear hug and his inertia sends both

men tumbling to the floor, where they roll and wrestle.

BANG! A muffled gunshot.

Quiet.

The two men have stopped rolling.

They stare at each other where they lie, Pancake on top.

At length:

Horrified, he slowly rises.

The men gather round and look down.

Gawain still stares up at the ceiling.

Pancake stoops, waves his hand in front of his eyes. No

reaction.

He checks the carotid artery.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

THE CELLAR DOOR

Creaking open. The Professor, Lump, and the General peek

out.

The living room is empty but a sliver of the kitchen is

visible; its light is on, and we can hear water running.

Dorr hisses:

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Dorr enters breezily; Mrs. Munson is at the sink, filling a

teapot.

Dorr positions himself so that, to talk to him, Mrs. Munson

has her back to the living room.

Behind her, the General peers around the corner and starts a

catlike advance across the living room.

The General signals to Lump who now crosses the living room

with a big garbage bag slung over one shoulder in a fireman's

carry.

The Professor, seeing that the General and Lump have made it

out the door, is anxious to wind things up:

Backing out, he looks to one side.

Through the living room window he can see the hearse pulling

away from the curb. There is another car -- an old Volkswagon

microbus -- slowly tooling the opposite way down the street.

Dorr looks back to Mrs. Munson.

EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - BRIDGE - NIGHT

We are at the middle of the bridge, the tower gargoyle looking

blankly down at the doings below.

In the misty night Lump and the General are braced over the

railing, looking down, each holding one of the feet that

protrude from the Hefty bag cinched around Gawain's ankles.

A cigarette burns on the General's lower lip. Behind the two

men we can see the idling hearse.

There is the toot of the garbage scow. Lump and the General

release Gawain's feet.

Their POV shows the sack receding and flumping into the

garbage piled onto the scow that slips by below.

A flock of scavenger birds, disturbed by the impact, lifts

off the scow with angry caws.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dorr skulks at a corner of the living room's picture window,

peering out at the street.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

DOOR'S POV

The Volkswagon microbus again cruises slowly down the street

in the same direction as previously; apparently it has been

circling.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The Professor scowls.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

DORR'S POV

The hearse pulls up to the curb.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

The Professor clomps down the cellar stairs. Pancake is

loading their digging implements into a satchel.

Dorr is absent:

Pancake straightens from the satchel.

He mounts the stairs with a satchel in either hand. We can

hear the front door opening as the other men enter.

Dorr, bemused, but apparently moved by a hunch, advances

slowly to the sackbutt case.

He slides the catch that lets its spring clasp pop up.

He lifts the lid.

Mother Jones magazine. Piles of Mother Jones magazines.

He riffles a pile, confirming that it is in fact all magazine,

no money.

Lump and the General are clomping down the stairs.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT

We are PULLING Clark down the street, a satchel in either

hand.

HIS POV

The microbus, parked halfway down the block, ominously idling.

THE BUS

We are CLOSE on its side-view mirror. Someone leans from the

driver's seat for a view into the mirror, and in the mirror

we see her, pigtails swinging: Mountain Girl.

HER POV

Clark Pancake, still rather small, approaching up the empty

street.

PANCAKE

PULLING him again. A smile is beginning to play at the corners

of his mouth.

The smile abruptly fades.

He stops in his tracks for no discernible reason. At length:

He pants.

Behind him, in the deep background, we see the General

bounding into the street and silently toward us.

The moment passes. Pancake shakes his head, as if to clear

it, and resumes his walk.

HIS POV

We are nearing the bus.

THE BUS

Mountain Girl sits in the idling bus, waiting.

With a thunk and a gentle rock of the bus, we hear its back

doors opening, and Pancake's voice.

We hear an oof! of exertion as Pancake hoists each of the

two satchels into the back. The oofs are followed by:

THE BACK OF THE BUS

to show Pancake being garotted by the General.

EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - BRIDGE - NIGHT

The tower gargoyle stares sightlessly down.

Lump and the General are at their accustomed place, each

holding a foot shod in a large hiking boot.

Behind them we see the hearse idling.

Near them on the bridge, both hands grasping the railing as

he gazes dreamily out into the night, is the Professor.

We hear the toot of the boat's horn and the men drop the

body.

They quickly stoop and grab another bag-swaddled body out of

which even larger hiking boots protrude.

They drop the second body.

We hear the distant flump and the cawing of scavenger birds.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

CLOSE ON A FIST

With three protruding straws.

SWEATING CLOSE-UPS:

Lump picks a long straw: relief.

The General picks a short straw. A short grunt.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - MRS. MUNSON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mrs. Munson lies on her back gently snoring. At the open

window, sheers ripple in the evening breeze.

A large clock ticks upon the mantle. It is almost one o'clock.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

THE CELLAR DOOR

It creaks open. The General looks stealthily out. A cigarette

in his mouth plumes smoke.

He pushes the door fully open, emerges.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - MRS. MUNSON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mrs. Munson's snore catches on an inhale. She mutters

something, sighs, and resumes snoring.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - STAIRCASE - NIGHT

The General treads lightly, noiselessly, up the stairway

leading to the second floor. He slides one hand into his

jacket, pulls out a garotte.

With the faintest whoosh he whips it in a complicated loop

and snags the other handle with his other hand.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT

The General emerges from the staircase and advances on the

closed bedroom door. As he reaches for the knob he performs

the no-handed flip of the burning cigarette into his mouth.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - MRS. MUNSON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The door swings noiselessly open. The General pauses to

survey:

The still room. The ticking clock. Mrs. Munson, a large

sleeping mound upon the bed.

The General advances, raising the garotte in both hands.

He closes on her sleeping form.

The garotte is lowered toward her exposed neck.

It is a foot -- half a foot -- inches-away...

Somewhere a muted gear ratchets and triggers the toll of--

The clock, striking one. It is a cuckoo clock but, instead

of a bird emerging, a berobed Jesus comes out with his hand

resting on the head of a child who gazes up in adoration.

The General starts at the noise and then suddenly freezes,

his eyes widening.

Jesus retreats back into the clock.

The General has swallowed his cigarette.

He reaches up to his throat, panicked. In a silent frenzy,

he yanks loose his ascot.

He gazes wildly about.

He reaches for the water glass at Mrs. Munson's bedside.

He tips it back into his mouth. There is a rattling sound.

HIS POV

The uptilted water glass is sending false teeth -- full uppers

and lowers -- rattling toward his face.

THE GENERAL

He frantically -- but still noiselessly -- sets the glass

back down. Wildly looks about, one hand clamped to his throat.

A mad but silent dash for the door.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT

Plunging for the head of the stairs--

--a brief yowl from the cat--

--recoiling from where its tail has been stepped on, a hiss

and a flash of its claws at the General's leg--

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - STAIRCASE/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

--and he falls down the stairs, each thudding impact bouncing

his body like a rag doll's.

At the bottom of the stairs he lies still.

A CLOSE-UP shows his head bent at an unnatural angle,

unblinking eyes staring. Traces of smoke wisp from each

nostril and his open mouth.

Over the mantle, Othar returns the dead man's stare. He looks

somewhat smug.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - NIGHT

The Professor and Lump, responding to the noise, look slowly

up toward the ceiling.

EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - BRIDGE - NIGHT

The body is laid out in a garbage bag by the rail.

The Professor stands looking at it, contemplatively.

Lump stands looking at it, contemplatively.

The cat sits nearby on its haunches looking at it,

impassively.

The professor muses:

There is the toot! of an approaching scow. Dorr's manner is

still absent, his regard still on the corpse:

He rouses himself, goes over to the bagged corpse. Lump

follows him and the two men hoist the body over the rail.

They let the body fall onto the scow passing below.

The Professor turns to Lump and tries to hand him Gawain's

gun, but Lump, uncomfortable, declines to take it.

Lump reluctantly takes the gun that the Professor thrusts

upon him.

We hear the toot of an approaching scow -- this one very

long, sustained under all of the following:

He points the gun at the Professor and--

--squeezes -- click -- on an empty chamber.

He turns the gun to have a look.

HIS POV

shows the foreshortened barrel as he experimentally squeezes

the trigger.

the Professor on the BANG! and, after a sad shake of his

head,

Lump in time to see him finish toppling back over the rail.

The scow-horn ends.

He goes to the railing to look down.

Lump, face-up on a pile of garbage, glides away. Disturbed

birds flap upward.

The professor muses:

His gaze rises with the ascending birds.

Among the white gulls is one black bird. The Professor eyes

it as it rises past him.

FROM VERY HIGH

we look down on the Professor, the black bird rising to perch

on the gargoyle on the suspension tower in the foreground.

The bird settles on a loose, teetering piece of masonry.

BACK TO THE PROFESSOR

looking at the receding red light on the bridge of the

receding scow:

BACK HIGH

The teetering chunk of masonry tips away and the perchless

bird flaps off.

BACK TO THE PROFESSOR

very dreamy: he sees something in the distance, beyond time

and space:

This is punctuated by the crunching impact of masonry scoring

a direct hit on his head. He falls over the rail.

His cape snags on the railing and he hangs limp and lifeless.

Directly below his dangling body the stern of Lump's barge

is slipping away to leave black waters and the clanking of

chains.

The fabric of the Professor's cape begins to tear. His body

drops in fits and starts as the fabric gives way.

Finally the body rips free. It falls away from us. As it

does so the clanking chains are pulling into view the second-

banger -- a garbage barge being chain-towed by the receding

scow.

Dorr's body lands neatly on the barge.

A gust of wind.

The cape flaps free of the railing and is wind-tossed away

amidst the cawing birds.

The cat, watching, blinks.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - MRS. MUNSON'S BEDROOM - DAY

DRINKING GLASS

It is resting on the very edge of the night table --

protruding, in fact, past the table's edge.

It is morning. We hear rustling from the bed.

Hands reach INTO FRAME and hesitate, finding the glass empty

of water and precariously perched.

The hands tip the glass and take the teeth. We hear

complicated oral noises.

EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - DAY

The door opens away to reveal the morning paper lying on the

stoop. Mrs. Munson leans INTO FRAME to pick it up and we

ADJUST as she straightens to have a look:

The headline says: $2.6 MILLION DISAPPEARS FROM LADY LUCK

CASINO. The subhead: POLICE BAFFLED.

INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY

Mrs. Munson is walking down the stairs.

She stops midway down and looks:

The empty cellar.

Money stacked neatly on the card table.

Mrs. Munson sadly shakes her head.

EXT. SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING - DAY

Mrs. Munson is climbing the porch in her Sunday best. She

feints at the dog who lies curled in the sun:

INT. SAUCIER MUNICIPAL BUILDING - DAY

The sheriff is busy on the phone; there is a DEPUTY today

also on the phone. The sheriff, seeing Mrs. Munson enter,

covers the phone with one hand.

The sheriff exchanges a significant look with the deputy,

then murmurs into the phone:

He cradles the phone and smiles at Mrs. Munson.

The deputy pauses to look up from his phone:

The sheriff sighs.

He and the deputy exchange looks. The sheriff looks back at

Mrs. Munson.

She picks up her handbag and heads for the door.

EXT. SAUCIER, MISSISSIPPI - DAY

Mrs. Munson is walking home. It is a beautiful spring day.

From far off, wafting toward us on the breeze, we can hear

the church chorus singing. Mrs. Munson joins in. She has a

strong voice:

She turns up the walk to her house.

When she opens the front door the cat slips out.

It races off down the street.

EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - BRIDGE - DAY

Pickles scurries along the walkway. We hear the toot! of an

approaching scow.

The cat reaches the middle of the bridge. He sticks his head

through the bars of the railing.

When we CUT CLOSE on the cat as he looks down at the water,

we see that he holds in his mouth a human finger.

As the scow passes underneath, the cat opens its mouth and

lets the finger drop.

The finger falls away and is barely visible by the time it

hits the scow.

The cat looks up INTO THE LENS, and blinks. Its sideways

irises adjust.

The scow is gliding away. With the low mournful toot of its

horn we tilt up the river to the great garbage island where

scavenger birds pick through the trash.

