NOTE:  THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS.

THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FROM THIS SOFT COPY.

Wilson's first impression of Los Angeles was blue.  He was in

the sky at the time, so it was a curious reversal, looking

down rather than up at the color he had always felt was

nature's finest.

Swimming pools.  Hundreds of them.  Pockmarking the landscape

like miniature lakes.  A flat landscape of straight streets

and square blocks and sparse grass that didn't look quite

green enough.

As far as Wilson could remember, he had only ever seen seven

or eight swimming pools in his entire life and they had been

public ones.  Here everyone had their own.  Marvellous.

There was the one at the Butlin's holiday camp where he had

enjoyed his last legitimate employment -- as driver of a tour

bus.  And there was the one at Crystal Palace he had gone to

once or twice when he was younger.  He was most familiar,

though, with the Chelsea Baths as he had lived for some time

in a flat nearby in what he now thought of as his good years

-- before he'd gone grey, went to prison, and found himself in

a plane over a foreign town arriving to avenge the death of

his daughter.

WHOOSH!  The sound of automatic doors opening and --

WILSON steps out into the late sunlight and the heat of the

day.  A slow-motion moment while he gets acclimatized.  He

wouldn't have ever felt quite this kind of heat before.

After such a rigorously air-conditioned interior.  Or seen

cops wearing guns on their belts.  Or black cops, for that

matter, with guns on their belts.  Or seen people as fat as

Americans on their home turf.  Things someone from England

notices immediately, whether consciously at first or not.

Wilson's not here for comfort.  Shown to a shitty room, round

the corner of a typical 2nd-level outside walkway.  Airport

close by.

He draws a curtain open across a window in one strong easy

glide.  His moves are neat.  His expressions just as

economical, not giving much away.  Outside the planes are

practically on top of us. The sunset colors strange and

chemical.

He's only got one light bag.  Unzips, unpacks a few things.

Change of clothes, a travel kit, and some familiar items

(shaving foam/toothpaste/deodorant} bearing unfamiliar

British brand names.

Goes into the bathroom.  Turns on the shower in there.

Comes back to sit on the bed.  Takes an envelope out of his

jacket.

ENVELOPE

Turns it over to see the return address on the back.

Wilson in the back.  Stares at the impenetrable name on the

driver's posted ID. Glances at the driver.

DRIVER glances back at his quiet passenger in the rearview

mirror.

Wilson walks up a cracked little path to the front door.

Lower middle-class street.  Two cars in the driveway, one

behind the other.  Lights on inside the house -- as he rings

the bell.

ED RAMA

Answers it.  Hispanic.  Late 30's.  Chairman Mao on his T-

shirt notwithstanding, an easygoing sort of fellow.  Not

looking for any trouble -- anymore.  But once did, and able

to handle himself if any shows up.  Which it has.

He turns, waves away the taxi he's kept waiting.  While

Eduardo Rama waits for an introduction.

Accent speaks for itself.  Hard, working-class.

Knows the name.  But just now it's unexpected.  He's holding

a hot TV dinner, hand protected by a dish towel.

Ed takes Wilson inside.

They've entered a cauldron of family life.  TV blaring

(SHOWBIZ TONIGHT!).  A couple of younger KIDS yelling "Mama".

Their MOTHER shouting back at them from the kitchen (in

Spanish) that she only has two hands.  A sullen TEENAGER

walking by.

Ed opens a screen door to the backyard.

They sit at an outdoor table.  Wilson with a TV dinner in

front of him now too.  Sounds from inside MUTED.  Even this

little house has a little pool.

Ed surprised at Wilson's directness.  Ed stands nervously.

And paces back and forth.

Ed stops pacing.

Beat.

Makes a kind of scoffing gesture:  and you can see what my

life is.

Wilson gazes up at the sky.  Clear night.  Stars.

Ed leans down, palms on the tabletop, facing Wilson.

Wilson taps out a cigarette from a pack of "Silk Cut" he's

produced from his pocket.

Wilson's quiet stillness is getting to him.

Wilson notes the tattoos on Ed's forearms.

Ed looks at him.  Sits down again.  Keeping his forearms under

the table.

And yet -- he lives here.  Wilson declines to pursue the

matter.

Ed sighs.  Reaches for one of Wilson's cigarettes.

ED AND JENNIFER. In a car, downtown. She has the same steely

intensity as her father. Ed looks a little worried.

JENNIFER. Talking to a beefy SUPERVISOR. Or talking at him.

Either way, he isn't happy.

MEAT PUPPETS. Watch instead of working.

ED. Taking all this in.

Unconsciously rubbing his arms where his tattoos are.

VALENTINE. Standing in front of his house. His expression

says: We have something to discuss.

He meets Wilson's gaze.  As hard and pointed as a drill

through his skull.

Ed drives Wilson back to his motel.  Wilson silent.  Ed still

not quite sure who he's dealing with.  Is this really or

merely a grieving dad?

Could be talking about the girl.  Wilson doesn't move.  But

touch him, he'll explode.  Out the window lights are passing,

but no landmarks.  He might as well be on the moon.

Now Wilson drops the clanger.

And Ed turns.  Looks at Wilson.  Fellow ex-con.

Wilson out of the car, shuts the passenger door.  Ed on the

other side, looks over the roof at him.

Wilson has other plans.

Makes his fingers like a gun.  And a clicking sound.

Ed throws up his hands, walks back to his driver's side door.

Walks round to come face to face with Ed once more.

ED

As if resigned and mulling the problem over:

Hundreds of tables.  Under bright lights.  Displaying every

kind of firearm.  Handguns, rifles, shotguns, parts to make

machine guns.  A weapons bazaar.

WILSON AND ED

Walking around.  Even a cool customer like Wilson can't help

but be impressed by America's loving embrace of senseless

mayhem.

DEALERS

Touting their wares.

VISITORS

Trying out pistol grips -- or pushing baby carriages.  Guys

in fatigue jackets with toddlers on their shoulders.  Women

in stretch pants looking for a little something in personal

protection.

WILSON

Doesn't know where to look.  At the booth featuring "Classic

Cowboy Collectibles" -- or the most OBESE COUPLE he's ever

seen who just walked by.

... and other anomalous oddball ANNOUNCEMENTS in the

background as long as we're here.

DEMONSTRATION

At a booth selling laser attachments.

For purposes of display, a smiling YOUNG WOMAN is the

"target."

WILSON

Walking past, almost subliminally noting the Young Woman with

the symbol of death on her.

TABLE

A .45 passed from a DEALER's hand to Wilson's.

Wilson's eyes glance up -- but Ed asks the question.

Nods at Ed.

A look of understanding between them.

Ed drives.  Nervous at Wilson handling his new gun purchase

beside him.

Ed shakes his head at Wilson's sense of humor.

As he puts away a box of ammo.

Doesn't make Ed feel any better.  Nor does the way Wilson

seems now to be studying Ed's driving techniques.  Paying

attention to the way traffic lights and left-turn lanes and

cars without clutches work over here.

Wilson at the wheel himself.  Getting the hang of L.A.

Driving downtown.  Along one of the major boulevards.

Glances at a street sign as he goes by.  Picks up the map

book on the seat beside him to check his route.

Wilson makes a sudden lane change to avoid getting fed in the

wrong direction.  Gets HONKED by another driver.

Wilson cruises past a particular building.  We don't have to

really clearly see it just yet (we saw it in the flash cuts) --

more important we see him seeing it.  Casing it with the eyes

of a professional.  Sniffing it out; the instinct of a

predator after prey.

Parks it.  Produces the little leather travel kit we saw him

unpack at his motel.  Unzips it.  Under the usual assortment

of clippers, razors, etc., is a hidden layer -- storing still

more personalized items:  a set of select slim

lockpicking/cutting tools.

Wilson locks the car.  Walks away.  STAY with him.

AROUND THE CORNER

He walks down the block.  A nice long walk.  What we get out

of it besides a sense of Wilson -- cool cat; ambling along;

loner; sun beating down; not bothered; his shadow doubling

him -- is this:

The building approaching.  The one he has his eye on.  The

target.  It's across the street.  A kind of flat windowless

warehouse with adjoining loading yard.  Loading yard

surrounded by a chain-link fence -- topped with barbed wire.

The actual geography of where he left his car in relation to

this building.  Safely around the corner.  And how he might

practically get back to it, either this same way or via a

more circuitous route round another block.

The sense you get in downtown L.A. on a lazy Saturday

afternoon that you're in a ghost town.  Particularly in this

shabby kind of industrial section.

Wilson crosses over to it now.  From sunny to shade.

Walks past the chain-link fence.  The padlocked gate, big

enough to accommodate the (couple of) trucks parked within

the compound.

Walks past the closed security door which would appear to be

the building's main entrance.

Round the next corner -- SEES there's a steel back door as

well.

Comes around this block again.  Looking surreptitiously around

now.  Streets here utterly deserted.  Not even a passing car.

Crappy residential building on an opposite corner, SPANISH

MUSIC blaring from one of the open windows, but not with a

direct view on the loading yard fence on this side.  Wilson

nearing it now -- taking something out of his pocket.  One of

the mysterious metallic tools from his travel kit.  Snaps his

wrist, unfolding the tool with a CRACK.  Wire cutters.

He doesn't go for the gate, the padlock, like we might have

thought.  He suddenly drops to one knee, in shadow where the

fence meets the adjoining building.  SNAP, SNAP, SNAP, SNAP,

SNAP -- so quick, with great dexterity, though his face

grimaces with the strength he has to exert with each

application of pressure -- he cuts just as many links as he

knows he needs to push in a little flap of fence and roll

under.  Whole thing accomplished in seconds.

LOADING YARD

Walks fast to the cover of the trucks.  Passes.  Looks

around.  Cement loading docks and bays.  Shuttered doors.  He

jumps up to one, puts his ear to the metal.  Listens awhile.

WILSON

Scans the wall for any sign of an alarm box or anything.

Then cocks an ear upwards... CAMERA CRANING UP to show us

what he hears:  an air-conditioning unit HUMMING away.  Which

means someone must be inside.

Wilson looks back at his entry options.  Not the loading

doors -- but a conventional door at one end, with a

conventional lock his eye zeroes in on.  Gets out his tools,

going over.

A SCRATCHING at the door.  It opens.  He's in.

Waits.  Cautious.  Nothing.  He starts along the hallway.

A SUPERVISOR (the one from the flash cuts) does a double take

as Wilson passes.

Wilson stops and turns.  Says nothing.

MEAT PUPPETS (who we saw before as well) who work here

gathering.  The Supervisor and the Meat Puppets exchange

glances.

The Supervisor moves toward Wilson.

More looks are exchanged.

Wilson stares at him.

Wilson looks at the Meat Puppets, the loading area.

Wilson just looks at him.

The Supervisor shoves him.  The Meat Puppets move a little in

anticipation.  Wilson isn't giving any indication that he's

going to leave.

He pushes Wilson again, hard.

He pushes Wilson again.  Still, Wilson won't leave.

This time he tries to slap Wilson.  Wilson blocks the

Supervisor's hand and then punches him, hard.  The Supervisor

stumbles back and falls to the floor.

THE MEAT PUPPETS

Move to Wilson.  He tries to fend them off, but there are too

many.  They beat him.  When they find that he's armed, they

beat him harder.

Wilson is taken outside and dumped.  After a moment, he gets

to his feet.  Dusting himself.  Reaches for ANOTHER GUN tucked

in his lower back.  He re-enters the building.

A beat.  We hear several SHOTS.

Seconds later, one of the Meat Puppets comes stumbling out of

the door, terrified.  He runs past us, fast.

A moment later, Wilson emerges, gun in hand.

A series of images that prove Valentine (whoever he is) has

taste, wealth, and influence, stretching back a good three

decades at least.

Walking through some of these shots is a young beauty in a

bathing suit named ADHARA.  She advances slowly, not entirely

sure of herself, and stops to look at things just like we do.

At one point she looks to see a BEEFY GUY (GORDON) sitting at

the kitchen counter, flipping through a magazine.  He looks

her up and down, more from reflex than anything.

She continues on.  Eventually she emerges through sliding

glass doors and on to a patio.

HER POV

A figure by the pool, talking on the phone.  His back to us.

The pool is spectacular, mosaic tile bottomed.

ADHARA

Approaches, then sits beside him.  His voice is soothing, but

with the tiniest hint of exasperation that comes with being

slightly ahead of everyone.

He hangs up, stands, still doesn't turn.

He turns and we see him for the first time.

VALENTINE

Polished.  Handsome.  Charismatic.  Especially when he's

smiling like he is now.  He leans over and kisses her.

His cell phone rings.

He listens, then looks up at his balcony, where a MAN (AVERY)

stands holding a phone, obviously talking to Valentine.

He hangs up.

Valentine approaches Avery.

Valentine is a little ruffled.  Maybe Avery likes that.

Beat.

Valentine just looks at him.

Adhara approaches Valentine, who stands staring at the pool.

Turns to her.

He smiles, rises, and offers her his hand.

She takes it.

ELAINE on her way in.  Handsome woman.  Intelligent, capable-

looking.  Passes Wilson who's leaning somewhere smoking.

ELAINE

Aware as a wary woman will be of a strange man's presence

without necessarily having looked at him.  Well aware too

that he stayed where he was -- so she unworriedly unlocks the

building's security gate and goes through to the inner --

COURTYARD

-- and closes the gate behind her, now seeing him amble up,

arriving as it CLICKS shut between them.  He's looking at her

a certain way.  She looks back.  And knows.

And the recognition on his part:

Elaine doesn't soften.

America.

Indicating his face, viewed by Elaine through the barred

security gate that divides them.

She turns to walk away.

She comes in.  A modest studio apartment.  Puts her bag on

the kitchenette countertop.  Glances at her answer machine to

see if she has any messages.  The phone RINGS.  She sits down

glumly on her couch, holds her head in her hands.

Wilson gives up, starts to walk away.  The gate BUZZES.

Elaine opens the door.  Wilson in the hall.

Wilson and Elaine at a table.

Their food arrives.

Wilson appears fascinated by the cold glasses of water on the

table.  Ice cubes CLINKING as he holds his.  A BUSBOY

bringing them to other people, too, just like that, without

anyone even asking.

Wilson looks at her.  Okay.  What then.

Elaine smiles slightly.  None of this information new to her.

But warming to this man.

It's because Wilson thinks the opposite that he's here.

Looks at Elaine.

They walk along the seafront.  We HEAR the ocean but can't

see it.

Mates.  Friends.  Makes a kind of bonding gesture.

Beat.

Wilson gives a laugh.

Elaine pauses.

Wilson leans on the wall overlooking the black ocean.  Sound

of WAVES gently lapping the beach.

They stand here a while.  Listening to the BREAKERS hit the

shore.

They come in.

That gets her a look.

She goes to make coffee.  Wilson looks around.

Maybe a smile from Elaine at the quaintness of "pop" music.

VALENTINE. At home. Watching as Adhara undresses, either

deliberately for him, or just casually. She smiles as she

notices he's looking.

That line pregnant with meaning.  Elaine looks at him.

Avoids answering the question actually implied there.

They sort of come together -- in mutual understanding -- and

sit down.  Coffee steaming.

Elaine looks away:

WILSON

That look again.

ELAINE

Past caring.

She goes into a bathroom.  Shutting the door behind her.

WILSON

Sips coffee.  Bites into a cookie.

Thickets part and we SEE Wilson scrambling up a rather steep

hill.  Coming to a ridge where he settles down to look at

something O.S.  His expression changes by degrees from

curiosity to dawning realization to a kind of frustrated

disappointment.

Ed sits in here, RADIO on.  Wilson appears out of the brush,

gets in.  Ed turns the radio down.

As one of the "bodyguards" runs by, only fleetingly glimpsed

by us.

Off Ed's perplexed look ...

Wilson settles into position again, this time with Ed.

Ed just laughs.

POV

Now we SEE what Wilson had mistaken for Valentine's private

army.  Half a dozen VALETS outside Valentine's hilltop home.

Dressed in matching attire, a couple of them wielding walkie-

talkies.

RESUME WILSON AND ED

Ed's still laughing.

Wilson's car pulls up.  He and Ed get out.  Wilson engages in

a mini tug-of-war with a Valet over his car key, it so rubs

him the wrong way having to give it up.

He gestures, apparently getting the message across that he

wants the car kept close by.

Exchanges the key for a card -- which he turns over in his

hand and studies curiously as they head inside.

Looking over to note the multi-car GARAGE off the main house.

Wilson and Ed are among the first to arrive.  A smattering of

other GUESTS.  Elaborate catered cuisine.  They mosey over to

the wet bar.

By now his whole dynamic with Ed is a verbal tease.

Valentine is checking himself in a full-length mirror.  TV on

in background, sound low (ENTERTAINMENT WEEK!).  Not quite

satisfied, Valentine crosses to the bathroom.

BATHROOM

Valentine takes one more closer look.

Valentine turns.

ADHARA

Is lounging in the large tub.  Staring dreamily at a couple

of framed posters on the walls:  more 60's psychedelia.

Valentine sits on the edge of the tub.  With a nostalgic air

as he looks at her:  the embodiment of youth.

He strokes her wet skin.  They kiss lightly.

Beat.

With that exit line (practiced?), he starts to go.

Then pauses, turns again.

Comes back to her.  Faraway look in his eyes.

He goes.

Wilson wanders around, exploring the house.  Comes to a wall

of photographes.  Casually scanning them as he passes slowly

by, he's caught up short by one.

POV

A framed photo of JENNY, his daughter.

WILSON

A series of emotions play over his face.  He turns -- SEES

Valentine coming down the stairs.  Valentine joins the party

without noticing him.

BY THE BUFFET TABLE

Ed peruses the available food.  Valentine comes over to check

it out.  Glances at Ed without recognizing him.

And goes away.  Leaving Ed more nervous than ever.

Wilson has come up here.  Peeks into one room.  Moves along to

another:  the master bedroom.  Opens the door gently.

Adhara is still enjoying her bath.

Wilson enters.  Careful.  Aware that someone's in the adjoining

bathroom.  The soft RIPPLE of WATER from in there.  Perhaps he

even glimpses her through the door as he boldly looks around.

He notices a video camera on a tripod, a cord running to the

television.  Suddenly we hear the CHIRP of a cellular phone.

BATHROOM

Adhara reacts.

She gets out of the tub and goes for the nearest towel.

Quickly wrapping herself, she exits.

BEDROOM

Adhara enters and goes for her purse.  She pulls the RINGING

phone out and answers it.

She hangs up and begins toweling her hair.  After a moment

she stops.  Something isn't right.  She looks around the

room, and her eyes stop on the TV.  Her brow furrows, trying

to place the familiar image on the screen:  a girl towel-

drying her hair by the bed.

She looks over to see the video camera, which has been turned

on and pointed toward the bed.  She's not sure if it's funny

or creepy.

Valentine mingling, all smiles and movement.

WILSON

At the foot of the stairs.  Watches him, all stillness and

intensity.

VALENTINE

Catches Wilson's eye for a nanosecond, does a subtle double

take, then moves on.

Adhara, dressed, looking great, exits the bedroom and heads

for the stairwell.

Adhara descends the stairs.

WILSON

Turning to SEE her as she comes down.

ADHARA

Makes her way across the room to Valentine.

WILSON

Watching them, when --

Wilson looks at him.  Reluctantly.

The Guy leaves.  Wilson sees that Adhara is now on the other

side of the room, separated from Valentine.  He heads for

her.

VALENTINE

Still dealing with people desperate to be the focus of his

attention.  He notices:

WILSON AND ADHARA

Talking in a corner.  She seems attentive.

VALENTINE

In a SERIES OF CUTS, still being the gracious host, still

keeping his eyes on:

WILSON AND ADHARA

Who, in a SERIES OF CUTS, continue to talk.  Finally, they

separate, Wilson heading outside onto a deck.

VALENTINE

Excuses himself from a group of sycophants and goes to her.

ADHARA

Valentine approaches and begins talking to her, low.  After a

few moments of conversation, they both look toward:

WILSON

On the deck outside.  Joining Ed, who's taken refuge out here

with a plate of food.  What Wilson can't belleve when he SEES

it -- is that behind Valentine's house, which is on top of a

high hill, is nothing but desolate scrub canyon.  On the other

side of the railing around the deck, which is surely less

than regulation height, is a sheer drop into an abyss.

Ed, a little more accustomed to L.A. architecture, nods in

agreement.

Wilson edges forward to the rail again.

They stand there looking out.  Quite a view once you get used

to it.  Breeze.

But now Ed gives Wilson a nudge -- SEEING that Valentine

inside the house is making his way out here.

Ed considers.  His is not to reason why.

Ed moves off.  Valentine steps up, smile fully loaded.

He extends his hand.  Wilson shakes it.

Wilson looks at him.  Valentine looks back.  Something about

those eyes ...

The Excited Guy appears, tugging at Valentine.

The Excited Guy ushers Valentine away.  Wilson watches him

go.

Ed, waiting.  Wilson enters.

Ed displays the Sterno.

Ed points to a table, where a toolbox sits.  Wilson crosses

to it, begins going through the contents.

Ed does.  Wilson pulls a brace-and-bit from the toolbox and

crosses to the rear of one of the cars.  Dropping to the

ground, he bores a hole in the gas tank.  Ed raises his

eyebrows and moves toward the door.  Wilson crosses to the

other car and puts a hole in that gas tank as well.  Then he

puts the brace-and-bit back in the toolbox and heads for the

exit, Ed right behind him, giving a quick backward glance.

THE GASOLINE

Spills out, slowly but steadily, and slithers toward the

garage door.

Wilson and Ed walk briskly along the path.

Valentine is talking to Gordon, his beefy bodyguard, and

looking around.  He stops as he sees Wilson once again

stepping onto the deck.  He points Wilson out to Gordon, who

nods and heads for the deck.

Ed hands the ticket to a Valet.  He exchanges looks with a

couple of the other Valets.

Valentine is talking to Adhara, who is introducing her

Girlfriend.  As Valentine greets her, he glances outside

where Gordon is approaching Wilson on the deck.

Wilson SEES Gordon approaching.  Gets ready to greet him.

Removes cigarette from mouth, drops it to floor of deck,

presses it out under his shoe.  Limbers up his shoulders in a

subtle way.

Gordon coming towards him.  As if to challenge Wilson's

legitimacy as an invited guest.  Closer.  About to speak.

But Wilson doesn't even give him a chance to do that.  In

quick succession:  Wilson HEAD BUTTS Gordon, splintering his

nose; KNEES him in the groin; then, using the knee for

leverage, grabs Gordon by the lapels -- and heaves him over

the railing!

It happened so fast that if anyone else is nearby they

probably didn't even notice -- or didn't readily grasp what

they saw.

Valentine had turned his attention back to Adhara and her

Girlfriend.  When he glances back to the deck he's a little

concerned not to see Gordon anywhere out there anymore --

just Wilson coming back in.

WILSON

Adjusting his jacket, walking back through the house.  Behind

him, people are rushing to the railing and looking over.  A

few yells of "Call an ambulance!" etc. are heard.

VALENTINE

Moves that way.

WILSON

Moving across the room towards the front door.  They are

heading right toward each other.

WILSON AND VALENTINE

Pass each other, eyes locked, almost dream-like.  Wilson's

eyes cold, though with the hint of a smile.  Valentine throws

a last look back before reaching the deck.

Valentine pushes through to look over the railing.

HIS POV

Gordon -- a crumpled, inert heap way down the hill below.

VALENTINE

Turns to look toward the front door.  Wilson not to be seen.

Valentine pushes through the crowd toward the door.

Valentine emerges in time to see Ed and Wilson pulling away.

Wilson looks at him, impassive, through the passenger window.

AVERY

Is just arriving in his car.  Valentine gestures at him.

Suddenly we HEAR a loud, bass-heavy WHHUUUMMMPPP.

Valentine (and a few others) turn toward the sound, which

came from:

THE GARAGE

There is smoke coming from under the door.

Wilson's car practically tobogganing back down the hill.

BOOM!  We hear an explosion from back UP the hill.

Ed jumps -- though he's driving.  The gas pedal his most

pressing concern.  Negotiating the dangerously winding road

comes second.  Exhilaration mixed with panic.

An especially sharp curve looms ahead.

WILSON

Flinches, grabs a handhold.

CURVE

Car makes it around on two side wheels.

WILSON

Gulps.

Ed regains control.

AVERY

In his car, takes a different turn.

Swerves some more curves.  Should be some sense here that a

similar skyline route would have been taken by Wilson's

daughter on her final drive.

Suddenly out of nowhere -- (a side street) -- BAM! -- another

car shoots out to cut them off, sideswiping them.

Wilson's car SKIDS into a spin from the impact.

THE OTHER CAR

It's Avery.  Chased them via a shortcut down the mountain.

Now jumps out of his car, levels a shotgun at them and pumps

off a BLAST.

WILSON'S CAR

BAM! -- the trunk pops open as the car rights itself.  Avery

FIRES again, but the upended trunk is a kind of shield,

deflecting the shot.

Despite the fact that Ed is still in the driver's seat (and

managed rather skillfully to avoid crashing) -- Wilson acts

like he's not there, grabs the steering wheel, jams the car

into reverse, virtually sitting on Ed as he pounds his own

foot onto the gas pedal -- and with his ferocious eyes

monitoring the door-mirror, steamrolls the car backwards

towards Avery.

Wilson reverses his car like a speeding tank:  SMASHING into

Avery's car.  Pushing it right off the edge of the road.

AVERY

Falls backwards to the ground as he gets the hell out of the

way.

WILSON

Jumps out of his car.  Gun drawn.  Advancing on Avery with it

pointed.

AVERY'S CAR

CRASHING through underbrush down the steep bank of the

hillside.

WILSON'S FACE

SOUND of the divebombing car OVER.  Another pointed echo of

his daughter's fate.

AVERY

Their eyes meet momentarily.  And before Wilson can shoot,

Avery rolls over the edge of the road himself.

ED

Calls frantically to Wilson from their car.

SIRENS in the distance.

WILSON

That consuming rage overtaken him again for a second.  But

the exigencies of the moment snap him out of it.

WILSON

Turns on a dime, goes back to the car.  Before he's halfway

in, Ed's driving them away again.  Trunk at the back BANGING

up and down, up and down.

AVERY

Pulls himself back up to the road.  Brushing himself off.

Looking the way they went.

He gently tosses his shotgun down into some thick brush where

maybe he'll retrieve it later.

Avery returns, sweating, walking back up the road to where

all the action is.  Party guests milling outside, waiting for

their cars so they can leave.  A fire truck, a police car.

SMOKE pouring out of Valentine's garage.

Valentine finishes talking to a couple of COPS.  Walks over to

Avery.

Valentine blows air, runs a hand through his hair.

In this context meaning how did that rangy Englishman do it.

Avery stares at Valentine.  Impressed at him thinking on his

feet.

He's being glib, but he's being serious.  His open-handed

gesture inquiring of Avery:  are you up to the task?

He turns to go.

The huge dead bulk of Gordon hoisted back up to the deck by a

paramedic team.

Valentine comes back in.  In the living room beyond, Adhara

stands anxiously, where she's been waiting for him.  Cops

visible outside on the deck, peering over the edge.

VALENTINE

Heading that way.  Then stops.  Backtracks.  Something

peripherally had caught his eye and he returns to it.  His

wall of photographs.

AN EMPTY FRAME

The one that had contained the picture of Jenny.

Safely down the hill.  Driving away in traffic, Ed calmer

now.

WILSON

Pulls the rolled-up photograph of his daughter out of his

jacket and looks at it.

Two characters stand, leaning, against a back wall.  Staring

ahead, without purpose.  Halfheartedly watching a game of

pool in progress.  Just hanging out.  Strange, threatening

characters.  One of them is young.  Lean, hungry-looking.

STACY is his name.  A shrewd, scheming kid.  But definitely a

little unhinged.  Weirder is his companion.  UNCLE JOHN.  The

title isn't one of courtesy.  He's an actual blood relative.

Maybe 25 years older than Stacy.  But intellectually younger.

Physically, much bigger.  The man is huge.  Nevertheless, the

safer of the two -- until Stacy tells him otherwise.  Way

they're standing next to each other suggests the ease they

feel in each other's company.  Tight bond.  They're good

buddies.

AVERY

Walks in.  Stops to look around.  Spots his two freaks.

Walks toward them.

DOORWAY

A mysterious black man has followed Avery in.  THOMPSON is

his name.  He hangs back and watches.

AVERY

Makes contact.

Stacy turns to see him.  Uncle John looks vacantly.

That was in the way of an order.  He nods around the corner

where it's less crowded.  Stacy stops Uncle John from

following, and goes after Avery.

THOMPSON

At the bar.  Keeping his eye on them.

AVERY

Speaks softly.  Alone with Stacy.

Avery gives him an envelope.

Wilson on the bed.  Watching TV (ACCESS HOLLYWOOD!).  KNOCK

at door.  He turns down the TV.  Takes a .45 from the springs

under the bed.  Looks carefully through the peephole in the

door.

Opens it.  Elaine has come to visit.  Lets her in.  After

closing the door resumes his position on the bed.

Elaine looks around.

But she doesn't really have it in her to be ironic right now.

Leans back against the door.

Wilson remains silent.  He's done the same to Elaine now that

he did to Ed.  Almost magically induced her to a confessional

verge.

Elaine, too, isn't sure she wants to be complicit in this

revenge tragedy.  But here goes:

She looks at Wilson.  Shrugs.  That's it.  That's all.  Isn't

it?

Elaine looks at him.

Wilson nods.

She's sitting on the bed now.

Stacy, putting on a jacket that says "Bomb Hanoi" comes out

of the pool hall.  Uncle John in tow.

BEHIND THEM

Thompson, the mysterious black man, watches them from the

hall doorway.

Early.

Wilson and Elaine.  Getting dressed.  She's in pantyhose.

Fastening a bra.  He's got trousers on, reaching for a shirt.

Elaine sits on the bed, fastening her skirt.  Her bra strap

cuts across her bare back.

Wilson looks at her:  she's the one who goes to bed with ex-

cons.

She glances up at him to try and see how he means that.  Is

he looking at her or out the window?

He stands again, vaguely disappointing her.

He laughs uproariously at that.  But the point is:  he's sort

of complimenting both Elaine and himself.  They've been

around, had their knocks, they've lasted.  Elaine remains

unsmiling.

Still leaning back on her elbows on the bed, in bra, skirt,

hose, no shoes.  She asks again the question Wilson avoided

answering.

And again he evades the answer she wants.

For the first time, we see the Pacific coastline.  Impressive.

And a sleek Italian sports car.  Heading north.

Valentine at the wheel.  Adhara besides him.

Adhara looks back over her shoulder.  Checking the road

behind.

A big utility vehicle.  With Avery in the front passenger

seat.  And three bodyguards he's brought along to protect

Valentine.  RICK driving, TOM and LARRY in the back.

After this spineless whining weak-willed sob story, Larry

just turns to him and says:

Stacy and Uncle John sitting on a bench in a beach setting

(though we still don't see the ocean).  Or on some grass,

maybe, in a little park -- opposite Elaine's building.

People-watching.  In their own unique way.  Stacy commenting

on fellow humanity all around them.  TIME CUTS between each

comment:

Uncle John picks at the grass or sand.  As they kill the day.

Suddenly Uncle John speaks.

Stacy turns.

POV

Across the street, Elaine comes out of her building.  (We're

supposing this is an apartment building somewhat worth living

in that has outdoor parking of some kind, visible from the

street, or only street parking.)

Elaine's car on the move.  Stacy and Uncle John in a car

following.

Going somewhere.  Unaware of the creeps in her wake.

An "8x10" of Elaine on their back seat.  Another picture of

her on a page torn from a "Player's Directory."

Stacy knows better than to argue with a moron.

Pause.

On screen:  A BEAUTIFUL MODEL -- but speaking in ELAINE'S

VOICE.

ELAINE

At a mic.  Wearing headphones.  Matching her voice to the

model's lip movements.  Looping this commercial or whatever

it is.

Wilson.  Comes to a window where he can see Elaine inside in

the sound-proofed studio.

Wilson and Elaine talk while technicians change reels.

Beat.

Elaine shakes her head.

Elaine and Wilson enter.  Stacy not far behind.  Catches

outside gate before it slams shut.

Wilson and Elaine turn the corner into the corridor

approaching her apartment door.  Pause to kiss.  Walk closer.

And Stacy appears at the other end of the hall.  Both arms

stretched out with the .38 at the end of them.

Starts to squeeze off a shot.  As Wilson pushes Elaine to the

floor.  As

behind Stacy.  Catching him across the cheek.  Only skimming

him.  But knocking him down.  Bullet chipping the wall.

UNCLE JOHN

Across from Stacy.  Freezes, his own gun in hand.

AT THE STAIRS

Three BLACK GUYS.  Including Thompson.  They approach.  Guns

pointed at Stacy and Uncle John.

WILSON

Hand on his .45 now.  But a fourth Black Guy coming up behind

him.  Wilson lowers the .45.

ELAINE

Flattened herself back against a wall.  Petrified.

STACY

Sits on the floor.  Holds his hurt face.  Thompson walks over

and picks up Stacy's gun.  One of the other blacks relieves a

reluctant Uncle John of his.

If there's any doubt whether Wilson will -- one of the blacks

gently puts the muzzle of a gun to Elaine's head.  Cocks the

hammer.

They all go off down the stairwell.  Except Stacy and Uncle

John.

Hit men wondering what hit them.

Like Wilson's motel room, another version of a cell.

A small window, high up.  Bricks and debris around the floor.

And Wilson and Elaine.  Sitting, leaning against opposite

stone walls.

Wilson takes a cigarette pack from a pocket.  Lights himself

one.  Then tosses the stuff over to Elaine.

Elaine sort of shares a laugh at that.

Though real ones might have been nice.  This an unspoken

thought between them.

Wilson shakes his head.

DOOR opens.  Thompson.  Gun in hand.

Thompson leads Wilson past a row of windows.  Dockyards,

harbor activity outside.  Toward a door with things

stencilled on it.  One of them:  US DEPT. OF CUSTOMS.

A man named FEATHER.  Black.  Half sitting on the edge of a

table.  Wilson is shown in.

Wilson at the door.  Sizes Feather up at a glance.

He walks confidently in.  Outside, through the window, an

image of a foreign sports car being hoisted in the air by a

crane.

There's a chair.  Wilson sits in it.

Feather squints a little.  Seems ready to listen to whatever

Wilson has to say.

Feather has been listening to this, expressionless.  Now he

raises a finger as if there's a point he wants clarified.

He's standing at the window, staring out.  As if Wilson isn't

even in the room any more.  A ship being loaded out there.

Inspectors with clipboards.  Trucks like the ones we saw at

that warehouse downtown.

Along the way up the coast.

Through a window we SEE Valentine and Adhara enjoying a

pleasant lunch.

The bodyguards hang out by the cars outside with fast food

bags and drinks.

AVERY

At a payphone.  His idiots in the background.  Dials a

number.

Stacy.  Nasty bruise on his cheek.  Takes a cue off the rack.

Chalks up.

They're playing against a couple of other creeps.

Creep rushes Stacy.  But doesn't get past Uncle John.  Who

drops him with one punch.  Flooring him between two pool

tables.  Stacy then goes over.  Supports himself with a hand

on each table, swings his boot into the thug's face.

Stacy looks.  Bartender holds up phone.  Stacy goes over.

Stacy just scowls, takes the phone.

UNCLE JOHN

Breaks.

STACY

Hangs up.  Goes back to Uncle John.  Picks up his cue again.

Someone we've never seen before and will never see again

stands in Valentine's driveway.  His name is FIELDING.

A car comes up.  Another guy, GRAMMS, sits in it.  He waits.

Eventually Fielding walks over.

Gramms just laughs.  Just laughs and laughs.  And we leave him

laughing.  And Fielding not.

Ed takes off an apron, heads out the door.  It's clear that

he's not the head chef here -- because the HEAD CHEF, an

Anglo, turns, wondering where he's going.  Over this we hear:

Beat.

Another beat.

Ed gets into Wilson's car.  Elaine in there too.

Wilson's rented car.  Heading for Big Sur.

Ed drives.  Wilson beside him.  Elaine in the back.

Elaine and Wilson exchange glances.

Onwards.

Stacy and Uncle John sit and drink.  Uncle John lamenting

their monetary loss.  Stacy thinking to himself.

Wilson's car.

Closer to Big Sur.  Scenery more magnificent.

Ed still driving.  Wilson next to him.  Opening a new

cigarette pack.

Little back-seat sarcasm there.  Wilson looks kind of bitter.

Flicks some cigarette pack paper out the window.

The car speeds along.

An impressive clifftop dwelling.  Isolated on a winding road.

On a beautiful promontory overlooking the sea.  Valentine

RINGS the DOORBELL (actually CHIME).  It's opened by his ex-

wife.  SUSAN.  Very well-maintained.  50-something.

Surprised to see him.  But not overjoyed.

Valentine goes inside.

He looks around.  She doesn't shut the door.

He turns to look at her.  Smiles.  Somehow it doesn't work on

her.  One of the reasons she divorced him.  Just one.  She

sighs.  Resigned to his presence.  Starts to close the door.

Now she gets it.

Susan SEES Adhara get out of the sporty car parked in the

drive and stand against it in a posture of younger chick

defiance.

He actually puts his hands on her arms.  To hold her firm

while he locks onto her eyes.  And doesn't smile.

Susan reads him.  He's not claiming ownership rights.  He's

telling her this house, because of the connection to him, is

a target of some kind.

The Land Cruiser pulls up outside.  Avery emerges, comes

over, comes in.  Susan notes the bodyguards out there as well.

Valentine lets Susan go.  Knowing she's now speechless at

what's turned into, as far as she's concerned, a home

invasion.

Encouraging, if not in fact ushering, her towards a bedroom.

That does it.  Susan turns on him.

Wilson and his friends pull in.  Get out of the car.

Stretch.

Wilson just heads for the motel office.  Elaine and Ed follow

a little distance behind.

Adhara sways in a hammock.  Staring at Valentine.  Wanting to

know what the hell is going on.

Valentine stands smoking at the rail, looking out over the

dark sea.  Ignoring Adhara.  Avery sits at a table.

Bodyguards visible inside the house.

Wilson at the car.  Elaine and Ed watching.

Ed has gathered that something has developed between Wilson

and Elaine.  The way she's looking at Wilson.

Ed sighs.  Awkward.

Wilson walks back to them.  Looking at Ed as if to say, ready

to go?  At her as if to say ... maybe farewell.

Tableau.  Evening has descended.  Surfaces glisten from a

light drizzling rain.

Adhara, dressing.  Behind her, outside, way out of focus, a

figure slithers by.

Valentine and Avery sit watching TV (CELEBRITY REPORT!).  Tom

is behind them in the kitchen, flipping through

magazine.

VALENTINE

Turns to look through the sliding glass doors.

HIS POV

Beyond the deck stands Larry, his back to us, facing the

ocean.

Looking toward the house, Larry in the foreground, facing us.

He takes a bite from a cinnamon granola bar, then looks at it

unhappily as he chews.

Looking at the house from the top of the hill.  Rick stands

in the driveway next to Valentine's car, smoking a cigarette.

REVERSE ANGLE

Wilson and Ed watching him.  Wilson nods his head to the

left, and Ed moves in that direction.  Wilson moves quietly

off to the right.

Valentine and Avery, still watching TV.

Avery starts looking around.

Suddenly, we hear a CAR ALARM.  Tom looks up from his

magazine.  Valentine looks to Avery, who shakes his head:

It's nothing.

Rick turns and looks up the driveway toward the sound.  He

puts his cigarette out.

Larry has turned toward the sound as well.  Through a

partially obscured side entrance, he sees Rick walking up the

driveway.

Rick walks away from us, toward the vehicle (the Land Cruiser

they drove here) parked up the driveway.  We lose sight of

him as he crosses to the driver's side.  The alarm goes off.

We hold for several beats.  He doesn't emerge.

Valentine and Avery are still looking for the remote.  Avery

stops, his attention drawn to the fact that he hasn't heard

anything from Larry.  He crosses to the window.

HIS POV

The driveway, car at the top partially visible.  No sign of

Rick.

AVERY

His brow furrows.

VALENTINE

Notices this, looks out toward the backyard.

HIS POV

Same as before, except Larry isn't there.

VALENTINE

Moves to the sliding glass door to get a better look at the

deck and back yard.  Still no Larry.

AVERY

Leaves the window and moves to Valentine.  Tom has joined

them.  After a beat:

Tom begins looking for the light switches.

Avery is already heading for the bedroom.

Tableau.  Avery exits the kitchen and takes the surrounding

porch to the bedroom.  Are we seeing this from someone's POV?

Adhara, finished dressing, looking at herself in the mirror.

The lights behind her go off.  She turns to see Avery coming

toward her to turn off the lights by the mirror.

He takes her by the arm.  Firmly, but not roughly.

She sees in his expression that something is up.

Tom and Valentine have finally found the light switches, and

the room is dark.  Valentine moves slowly to the window,

takes a tentative peek.

HIS POV

The driveway.  Hard to see.  Is there something moving out by

the shed?

AVERY

Entering the kitchen with Adhara in tow.  He brings her

around behind the counter.

Valentine and Tom move to join Avery and Adhara.

Everyone moves behind the large counter in the center of the

kitchen and crouches down.  They have a wall behind them and

all the windows in front of them.

Avery and Tom have drawn their guns.

Tom snorts.  Avery looks at Valentine:  Haven't you told this

girl anything?

She starts to stand.  Valentine pulls her down.

Avery looks to Tom, who nods toward the back porch.

THEIR POV

A silhouetted figure is tentatively making its way along the

porch, trying not to be seen.  We don't get a very clear

glimpse.

AVERY

Draws his gun and takes aim.

THE FIGURE

Careful not to become fully visible, but growing more

courageous with each step.

AVERY

Locked on him, waiting.

VALENTINE

Puts Adhara's hand to her ears.

THE FIGURE

We see a little more now than we have before.

AVERY

He sees enough.  Squeezes off a series of SHOTS, the muzzle

flash strobing the kitchen area like a flashbulb, Adhara and

Valentine flinching.

THE FIGURE

Hit.  Spinning and collapsing to the ground.

AVERY

Lowers his gun.  Turns to Tom.

Avery moves out from behind the counter and heads for the

body.

Avery makes his way to the figure, which is on its stomach

and writhing slightly.

AVERY

Careful.  Takes the gun and turns the body over.

STACY

Stares up at him, choking on his last few breaths.

AVERY

Puzzled.  What the hell is this guy doing here?  He starts

feeling around Stacy's jacket for anything useful, but is

interrupted when his hand EXPLODES, accompanied by the sound

of a gunshot.  He screams in pain.

Valentine and Adhara drop to the floor.  Tom, gun raised and

pointing, tries to see who shot Avery.

Avery is turning toward his assailant, but not fast enough.

A shot rings out and part of his neck disappears in a blossom

of blood.  Stunned, he falls on his side, gasping.

AVERY'S POV

Uncle John.  Close by, huddled by the lip of the cliff.  He

starts to move cautiously toward Avery and Stacy.

Tom squints, trying to see.

TOM'S POV

A piece of Uncle John's silhouette appears.

TOM

Fires at it.  Didn't hit anything.

Tom jumps up and runs for the living room, firing his gun in

front of him toward where he last saw Uncle John's

silhouette.

LIVING AREA

Tom runs through and reaches the sliding doors to the back

porch.  A portion of the frame SPLINTERS from a gun shot as

he gains access to the other side of the back porch.

Tom is through the sliding doors and trying to make his way

around to the driveway.

UNCLE JOHN

Crouched behind the opposite end of the porch, sticks his

head up.

HIS POV

Tom crossing to the steps, slips on the damp wood, tries to

right himself.

UNCLE JOHN

Squeezes off two shots.

TOM

Is shot in the ankle as he is about to reach the steps.  He

yelps in pain, tries to raise his gun.

UNCLE JOHN

Crouched down.  A shot flies over his head.

TOM

Stops shooting.  Tries dragging his shattered ankle to the

steps.

UNCLE JOHN

Looks over the edge of the porch.

HIS POV

Tom turning toward the steps.

UNCLE JOHN

Fires at him.

TOM

Screams again as his elbow of his gun hand disintegrates.  He

slips on the first step and tumbles down, the gun bouncing

beside him.

UNCLE JOHN

Sees this.  Stands up to cross the back porch.  Takes a step

forward but is stopped by a bullet in the chest (about the

only clean shot anybody makes).  He looks down at himself.

He looks up to SEE:

AVERY

Near death.  Gun in his good hand.  He squeezes the trigger

again.

UNCLE JOHN

A small black hole appears in his cheek.  He blinks, begins

to raise his hand to his face, and collapses.

AVERY

Exhales and rolls over.

TOM

Still trying to get to his feet.  He gives up and just lies

there, panting.

A HAND

Reaches for the gun beside Tom.  Tilt up with it to reveal:

ED

He puts the gun in his jacket and slides away.

Valentine and Adhara are still stuck behind the counter.

Valentine sees the shadowy shape of Ed slipping behind the

back porch.

VALENTINE

Decides to make a run for it, following Tom's route, away

from Ed.

LIVING ROOM

Valentine runs to the sliding door, smack into:

WILSON

Standing there.  Wet.  Mad.  He grabs Valentine by the shirt

and pushes him back into the room.

VALENTINE

Bounces off the couch and onto the floor.

WILSON

Comes toward him.

VALENTINE

Grabs a lamp off an end table and hurls it at Wilson.  It

careens off Wilson's arm and shatters.

WILSON

Is almost on him now.

VALENTINE

Tries to scramble away.  Throwing anything he can get his

hands on at.

WILSON

Who keeps coming.  He grabs Valentine, pulls him up, then

throws him into the television.

VALENTINE

Crashes into the TV face first and bounces to the floor.

WILSON

Goes to him, grabs him by the neck with one hand and pulls

out his gun with the other.  He seems about to speak when

suddenly he screams instead.

ADHARA

Has just stuck a kitchen knife into Wilson's back.

WILSON

Turns instinctively and whips the pistol around, smashing

Adhara in the mouth.

ADHARA

Hits the ground.  She won't be retaliating.

WILSON

In agony, spinning, trying to reach the knife in his back,

but IT'S JUST BEYOND HIS REACH.

VALENTINE

Scrambles through the sliding glass door.

Valentine stumbles out.  Notices Avery slumped on the deck,

mortally wounded.  Goes to him -- as if concerned -- but

actually just to take the gun.  Then runs off the porch

toward the STEPS that lead down to the sea.

WILSON

Comes out after him, the knife still in his back.  So intent

on catching Valentine he fails at first to notice Avery lying

in the shadows.

AVERY

Has just barely managed to reach Stacy's pistol.  Raises it

weakly.  Points it at Wilson.

WILSON

Seems to feel it.  Turns.  Locks eyes with Avery.  Avery

could already have shot him.  But there's a momentary sense of

recognition:  both of them just foot soldiers for fat cats --

and Avery's is not worth saving.

AVERY

Lowers the gun.  Nods in the direction Valentine went.

Wilson moves on.  Avery just lies there, presumably to die.

Valentine hurries down the rickety steps.  Trying not to slip

in the darkness, though there are tiny Malibu lights

illuminating the steep and winding wooden framework.

A rocky cove.  Valentine looks back up the way he came,

HEARING the FOOTSTEPS coming down after him.  Backs away a

few paces on the slippery rocks.  Falls.

Lands on the crumpled, dead body of LARRY, the bodyguard, who

was thrown off the cliff.  Valentine recoils.  When Wilson

appears, Valentine FIRES at him.  A wild shot that only makes

Wilson duck momentarily.  Valentine scrambles to his feet,

runs on.

WILSON

Jumps down from the steps.  Stops for a moment and leans his

back against the railing.  Bends at the knees slightly.

THE KNIFE

The handle is forced upward just enough to be reachable now.

WILSON

Grimacing, pulls the knife out and discards it.

FURTHER DOWN THE BEACH

Valentine runs.  Or tries to.  It's dark and the ground is

treacherous.  The beach runs out pretty soon.  Now just

rocks.  Maybe he thought he could get around the rocks on the

point at the other end.  But he can't see very far ahead.

And the tide is in, water making any escape extremely

difficult.  He tries to scramble over some rocks.  They're

wet, slippery.  He falls, cries out as he literally breaks an

ankle.

WILSON

A dark figure.  Coming into focus.  Walking inexorably this

way.

VALENTINE

Painfully rights himself.  A small bone protrudes from his

broken ankle.  He FIRES at Wilson, gun in one hand, other

hand gripping his wrist to try and steady it.  Doing his best

to aim.  But the SHOTS miss their mark.

WILSON

Steadily coming.

VALENTINE

Out of bullets now.  Gun CLICKING crazily on empty.  He

simply drops it.

WILSON

Now stands before him.

THE TWO OF THEM

Both breathing hard.

This is not what Valentine expected.

Wilson drops to the ground too, in a passionate fury, starts

strangling Valentine.

Easing up just enough for Valentine to sputter out a

response.

They're locked in a kind of embrace.  Sprayed by the waves

crashing into the rocks.  Sweating and gasping and exhausted

and hurt and furious.

WILSON

Shock of recognition on his face.  At those words.

Wilson sits back.  Panting.  Totally spent.  The two of them.

Both on the ground now.  Whatever energy they had left drained

-- Valentine from his confession, Wilson from hearing it.

Valentine shaking, sobbing.  Still not realizing the pathetic

folly of his actions.

WILSON

Knows that the girl he loved ... loved Valentine, too.  Having

heard the truth, the last vestige of revenge has vanished.

He gets up and walks away.  Leaving the quivering shell of

Valentine behind.

Adhara wakes up.  Hand to her smashed cheek and mouth.  But

it's not her hand.  It's Valentine's.  She sort of shuffles

away from him along the floor.  Sits against a wall holding

her face.  Valentine sits back against an opposite wall.

They stare at each other.

Wilson, lost in thought.  Accepts a drink from a FLIGHT

ATTENDANT.  We can see it pains him to reach for it.

After setting the glass down, his other hand goes to the

shoulder where his stab wound was no doubt only temporarily

dealt with.

WILSON. At the roadside hotel, grimacing.

ELAINE. Cleaning his wound.

Wilson rubs his shoulder.  The AMERICAN LADY in the seat

beside him heard the way he said thanks to the Flight

Attendant.

A small beat (which he takes each time he responds).

WILSON

Takes this in.

WILSON. Shaving in the mirror at his L.A. motel. He stops.

WILSON. In the car leaving Valentine's house. Fingering the

picture of Jenny.

Wilson nods.

WILSON. In the car with Elaine and Ed, driving back from Big

Sur. Everyone in their own world.

WILSON. At Ed's house. Saying goodbye.

WILSON AND ED. Shake hands.

ED. Watching him get into Elaine's car.

WILSON. At the airport, staring at Elaine.

ELAINE. Staring back.

WILSON AND ELAINE. She embraces him.

ELAINE. She watches him leave.

WILSON. Disappearing into the terminal.

Wilson nods, exhales.

WILSON. In the cab on the way to Ed's, at the beginning of

the film. Watching the lights go by.

Longer beat.  He actually turns to look at her now.  Takes

her in, then looks forward again.

Another beat.

And he turns away, to the window.  Looks at the blue sky.

Sips his drink.  Then, hard:

THE END.

