Black.

We track back from a barber's pole.

We track back from a shopkeeper's bell triggered by an opening

door. The pull back and tilt down show the top of the head

of a customer entering in slow motion.

We track along a shelf backed by a mirror and holding pomade,

aftershave, hair tonic, a whisk brush.

We track in on a big man in a barber's smock scissoring across

a lock of hair that he pulls taut between two fingers of one

hand. In slow motion, he laughs and chats.

Another man in a barber's smock is running electric clippers

across a child's head. A cigarette between his lips.

He plucks the cigarette from his mouth and taps its ash into

a tray.

LATE IN THE DAY

The barbershop is empty of customers. Late sun slants in

through the front window. The two barbers--the narrator and

his brother-in-law--sit in two of the barber chairs, idly

reading magazines.

Beat.

We cut to examples of the haircuts as they are ticked off:

Ed trims the fringe around a balding head.

He snips one long lonely strand of hair and carefully drapes

it across a bald pate.

We float slowly toward a white bungalow on a quiet street as

a black coupe pulls into the driveway.

We track in through a bedroom door to discover a woman putting

on a girdle.

Close on her legs as she rolls up a stocking and clips it to

the garter.

Close on an atomiser misting her bosom with Jungle Gardenia

by Tuvache.

Doris in a flouncy dress is setting coasters on a coffee

table.

Ed sits on the living-room davenport in an uncomfortable

suit, smoking.

The doorbell rings.

THE DOOR

Ed opens it to reveal a large man in a suit and his demure,

bird-like wife.

DINNER TABLE

The two couples are in the middle of the meal.

Ann smiles wanly.

He roars with laughter.

Ed gives an acknowledging smile.

He dries his eyes with the corner of a napkin.

FRONT PORCH

Ed is standing alone on the porch, watching the sun go down.

Crickets chirp. From inside the house we hear laughter and

clattering dishes.

He turns and looks through the screen door into the house.

Across the dim living room we can see a sliver of the brightly

lit kitchen. Big Dave, wearing a frilly apron, stands at the

counter drying dishes. His broad back heaves with laughter

while Doris, just hidden by the wall, chats away, handing

dishes across.

Footsteps approach the front porch.

With the squeak of the screen door, Big Dave emerges.

Ed gives a half-grin of wry acknowledgement. Big Dave relaxes,

forearms against the porch railing, gazing out at the front

lawn.

He chuckles.

There is a silence. At length, gazing out at the lawn, Big

Dave clears his throat.

CHURCH

We are tilting down a long stained-glass window depicting

the resurrection of Christ.

Faintly, we hear an amplified voice:

Ed sits at a long table, staring at the window, a lit

cigarette in his mouth.

Doris is concentrating on the six cards spread in front of

her.

Still focused on her cards, Doris mutters to Ed:

Ed continues to gaze off at the window, smoke pluming from

his cigarette.

Doris sucks in her breath.

BARBERSHOP

Sun slants in through the big window at the end of the day.

Ed sweeps hair trimmings, looking intently down at the floor,

a cigarette dangling from his lip. Frank sits on one of the

vinyl waiting chairs, talking at Ed's back.

We see a black-suited figure approaching through the windows

at the far end of the shop. He is almost blown out by the

late-day sunlight hitting the window.

The bell over the front door tinkles, and the swarthy middle-

aged man walks in. He is well dressed--perhaps a little too

snazzily for this small town--and has a sporty pencil

mustache.

Ed cuts in with a jerk of the head.

Frank looks sourly at the stranger.

As Frank leaves:

The stranger chuckles.

Ed has switched on the clippers, but the stranger waves him

back; he lifts off a toupee.

Ed starts to trim the stranger's fringe.

He twists around to offer his hand.

BATHROOM DOORWAY

It is evening. Ed leans against the bathroom doorjamb

contemplatively off, hands thrust into his pockets, a

cigarette between his lips pluming smoke.

The reverse show Doris soaking in the tub, reading a magazine.

Ed takes the cigarette from his mouth, exhales.

She lifts one leg and rests the heel on the rim of the tub.

Ed saunters over, perches on the tub and puts the cigarette

back in his mouth to free his hands. He picks up a bar of

soap and starts soaping the leg.

He sets down the soap and picks up a safety razor.

The razor takes long slow strokes along the lather, dark

bits of hair flecking the white foam.

He shakes the razor in the tub. Shavings float away across

the soap-slicked water.

Ed pulls the cigarette from his mouth between two fingers,

uses the two fingers to flip it over, and holds it for Doris

as she sucks.

He brings the cigarette, now marked with lipstick, back to

his own mouth. She murmurs:

A DOOR

We hear a voice, muffled through the door, breaking into

laughter.

A hand enters to knock.

The door swings open to show Creighton in his shirtsleeves

sitting on the bed, talking on the phone. A tray of room-

service dishes sits near him.

He is bald; his hairpiece sits on the pillow next to him.

He hangs up, looks quizzically at Ed.

Ed stands awkwardly by the door.

The stranger's look does not show recognition.

Ed nods, his smile faint and forced.

Creighton, surprised, quickly picks up his hairpiece and

arranges it on his head.

He reaches for a bottle of bonded whiskey on the night stand

and hands Ed a glass.

They both knock back the whiskey. Creighton leans back and

gives Ed a heavy-lidded stare, a faint smile on his lips,

his hairpiece slightly askew.

Ed stares back.

After a beat, without taking his eyes of Ed, Creighton reaches

up and loosens his tie. An almost imperceptible wink.

Ed stares.

Creighton throws up his hands apologetically.

CLOSE ON TYPEWRITTEN NOTE

It says:

I KNOW ABOUT YOU AND DORIS CRANE.  COOPERATE OR ED CRANE

WILL KNOW.  YOUR WIFE WILL KNOW. EVERYONE WILL KNOW. GATHER

$10,000 AND AWAIT INSTRUCTIONS.

A hand pulls the note out of a typewriter carriage.

BARBERSHOP

We are looking down at the top of an eight-year-old's crew

cut as clippers buzz its perimeter.

Frank reads a magazine. The youngster reads a comic as Ed

works his head.

Ed shuts off the clippers and give the apron a flap.

The kid hops down, still reading his comic, and ambles out

the door. Ed gives Frank a considering stare.

Ed turns back to the counter to hang up his clippers.

EXT. ED'S HOUSE

It is twilight. Ed lifts the latch on the front gate and,

cigarette in his mouth, heads up the walk.

Music filters out from the house.

INT. ED'S HOUSE

Ed walks though the living room, hands in his pockets. The

music emanates from a radio in the bedroom.

A track forward reveals Doris sitting at a vanity, doing her

hair. Her dress is half zipped at the back.

Ed walks over behind her.

We are close on the zipper as Ed's hand takes the tab, pauses,

the lowers it slightly. Her back blooms through the dark

fabric of the dress.

He slides the zipper up, and Doris reaches for a perfume

atomizer.

SALES FLOOR

It is festooned with streamers.

Ed leans against a wall, one hand dug into a pocket, the

other bringing a cigarette to his lips.

Band music plays and Nirdlinger's employees whirl on the

dance floor. Bobby-soxed teenagers Lindy-hop and pass palms

over their knees.

A thin young man in a sports coat stands next to Ed, watching,

his Adam's apple bobbing.

He goes out onto the dance floor. Ed, left by himself, gazes

across the floor.

His view, broken by dancers' crosses, shows Big Dave worriedly

talking to Doris.

Doris reacts angrily.

Big Dave morosely absorbs the angry words from Doris. He

glances up toward Ed and notices his gaze with consternation.

He gives Doris a jerk of the head, and she too looks over.

The young man with the Adam's apple is back, looking out at

the floor, snapping his fingers.

A hand is laid on Ed's shoulder. It is Big Dave; he leans in

to murmur:

BIG DAVE'S OFFICE

Music from the party drifts in only faintly. The office is

built into a corner of the sales floor. It is dominated by a

large desk. A large window on the far side affords a partial

view of the floor.

Ed sits in a leather chair in front of the desk. Dave fumbles

nervously on top of the desk for a cigar. He trims the end

of the cigar with a short double-bladed knife with a steel

grip.

He hands one cigar to Ed, takes one for himself, then drags

up a chair to face Ed's.

The office is dark, the only illumination coming from the

window onto the bright sales floor behind Big Dave. Ed leans

forward for Dave to light his cigar.

Dave, having lit Ed's cigar, draws nervously on his own.

Dave breaks down, weeping. He buries his face in his hands,

the burning cigar in his right hand perilously close to his

hair.

His shoulders heave.

Ed has taken Dave's cigar so that he won't burn himself.

Ed awkwardly holds the two burning cigars.

Big Dave blows his nose, reaches to take his cigar from Ed.

He exhales with a long sigh.

He give a tearful chuckle.

He rises and clears his throat as he rubs the tears from his

face.

PULLING ED

He has left the office to wander through an adjacent room

lit only by spill from the party. It is the music department;

pianos and spinets are arranged across the floor.

Ed sits on a piano stool next to a standing ashtray. He takes

out a cigarette, lights it off his cigar, stubs out the cigar.

His attention is caught by a distant knock of wood. Someone

is raising the key-guard on a piano across the room.

The person can only be seen only obscurely, from three-

quarters behind, through the sales floor's jumble of

haphazardly arranged instruments. The person begins to play.

Ed listens. The piece is slow, sweet, almost a lullaby.

The player, unaware that there is an audience, plays on, and

Ed listens, eyes narrowed against the smoke curling past his

face.

The piece ends.

The player turns, surprised. It is a young woman.

Ed nods recognition of the name.

His look shows surprise.

Ed's head tilts back in acknowledgment.

Ed give a wry smile.

A woman calls sharply from offscreen:

He looks.

Silhouetted in the doorway to the party room is Doris, coat

over her arm, purse in hand.

ED'S CAR

Doris and Ed are driving home.

Doris draws heavily on a cigarette, looking flintily out at

the road.

She waves angrily.

They ride in silence for a beat. Doris shakes her head.

STREET

As the car roars past and into the distance.

ANOTHER STREET

It is day. We are looking from inside a parked car toward a

hotel entrance. Big Dave emerges from the hotel, gets into a

Packard and drives off.

Ed, sitting in his car, is watching.

HOTEL HALLWAY

Ed emerges from a stairwell and goes to a standing ashtray

by the elevator.

Ed reaches into the trash hole in the ashtray column and

pulls out a Nirdlinger's bag.

He goes back to the stairwell.

ANOTHER FLOOR

Ed emerges from the stairwell, goes to a door and knocks.

The door swings open.

Ed follows him into the room.

He gives Ed a look.

He perspires as he counts the money.

He wipes his brow, finishes counting.

Creighton hands Ed an executed agreement and a receipt.

He gives Creighton a level stare, smoke pluming from the

cigarette planted in his mouth.

Creighton mops his brow again.

CAR

Ed drives with the usual cigarette in his mouth. Doris sits

next to him. Rural scenery slips by in the background.

Doris gazes stonily out at the road. At length:

Ed gives her a brief glance. Doris glares at him.

She looks back out at the road.

This brings nothing from Ed. Doris shakes her head.

BY A BARN

Wops in Sunday clothing greet each other around tables piled

with food.

A small child runs up to his mother, yanks on her dress and

screams:

Surrounded by cheering children, with a jug of wine slung

over his shoulder, Frank is riding an enormous pig. He slaps

at the pig's ass with a large straw hat.

Doris is standing by one of the tables, drinking red wine

from a water glass. Ed stands nearby.

A large woman hugs Doris.

PICNIC TABLE

A group of kids pulls Frank, laughing, by the hand toward a

picnic table set out with pies in a row.

An old man stands by with a stopwatch.

He clicks the timer.

Frank and the line of children plunge their faces into the

line of blueberry pies.

The other picnickers cheer them on.

ELSEWHERE

Ed and Doris approach the innocent-looking young couple

accepting congratulations.

Doris, holding her empty glass, is not a happy drunk:

Ed tries to lead her away.

Doris calls back over her shoulder:

As Ed and Doris recede we hear her petulant:

ELSEWHERE

In a long shot we see Frank at the crest of a hill, staggering

slowly, painfully, toward a tree. In his right hand he

clutches a trophy.

When he reaches the tree he swings his free hand up against

it, leans forward, and vomits.

CAR

Late afternoon, driving home.

Ed drives. Doris sits in the front passenger seat, snoring

lightly. Frank sits in the back seat hugging his trophy to

his chest, eyes closed, murmuring:

Silence.

Doris moans.

More silence.

EXT. BUNGALOW

It is twilight. Ed's coupe is parked in the driveway. He is

just rounding the back of the car to open the passenger-side

door. He pulls Doris from the car, half asleep, half drunk.

INT. BUNGALOW

The door swings open and Ed stumbles in supporting Doris,

who has one arm draped around his neck. He helps her into

the bedroom and eases her onto the bed.

He sits on the edge of the bed and looks down at her.

Shadows from branches just outside wave across her face. She

is breathing through her open mouth; her face is moist with

perspiration.

A harsh jangle from the telephone. Doris moans but does not

wake; Ed rises and does to the living room and picks up the

phone.

Ed sighs.

He hangs up.

He nudges Doris.

She murmurs.

She rolls away and burrows into a pillow.

Ed opens her purse and pokes through it.

NIRDLINGER'S

We are looking over Ed's shoulder as he hesitantly swings

open a door.

It reveals Big Dave's office, quiet and rather dark.

A down-facing banker's lamp on the desk illuminates Big Dave's

hands on the desktop.

Ed enters, sits.

An awkward silence.

Another silence.

His hands writhe on the desktop.

Big Dave stares without speaking.

After a long beat:

No one talks.

Big Dave sighs.

He looks at Ed.

No response.

Big Dave rises.

He crosses around the desk and adds, sadly:

Ed starts to rise, but Big Dave is already looming over him.

Big Dave bear-hugs him and then spins him into a wall.

Ed hits the wall and bounces off, back into Big Dave. Big

Dave wallops him in the stomach. Ed doubles over.

Big Dave hurls him against the desk, then slams his face

against the desktop. Ed's hands scrabble at the top of the

desk as Big Dave grabs him by the neck and lifts. He slams

him face-first into the window between the office and the

dark sales floor.

Ed twists around, the back of his head now pressed against

the glass. Big Dave's hands lock around his throat.

Big Dave sweats and strains.

A crack shoots up the pane of glass.

Ed's hand sweeps up and plunges something into Big Dave's

neck.

Big Dave grunts and turns away, gurgling. His hands go up to

his throat.

Ed watches. He is holding Big Dave's cigar trimmer.

Big Dave takes a couple of deliberate steps backward, his

head twisted away.

He falls back, tripped up by a chair, which spins him face-

down onto the floor.

Big Dave crawls away face-down across the floor, on his knees

but with his hands still at his throat. His face and knees

awkwardly support his weight as if he were pushing something

across the floor with his nose.

He reaches a corner but still pushes forward, wedging himself

in, legs still scraping away as if to push himself through

the wall. Blood is pooling out from under him.

Big Dave's legs are still working. His gurgling continues.

Ed watches.

Big Dave's legs start to move furiously. They convulse. His

whole body shakes as he goes into shock.

Ed watches.

Big Dave stops shaking. He remains wedged awkwardly into the

corner, face-down. He is still.

The room is very quiet.

Ed looks down at his hands.

He walks across the room, pushes the door open and walks

across the darkened sales floor.

EXT. STORE

Ed walks to his car. He does not look about, is not

particularly furtive. He gets into the car. He starts the

ignition.

EXT. HOUSE

He pulls up, sits motionless for a beat. Gradually, something

draws his attention; he cocks his head and looks up through

the windshield.

A branch creaks and sways in the breeze.

INT. HOUSE

Ed gets into bed next to Doris. He stares at the ceiling.

Wind rustles outside.

The shadow of a branch on the ceiling nods in time with the

wind.

He looks at Doris.

Her face is still lightly sheened with sweat but her mouth

is closed now, her breathing more peaceful. The leafy shadows

play over her face.

He is gazing at her.

Sound and image face.

BARBERSHOP

The next day.

Ed cuts hair, a cigarette between his lips.

Frank is giving a haircut as well.

LATER

Ed sits in his chair, hands folded in his lap, head tilted

back, eyes closed.

We hold on Ed as we hear a clipper buzzing and Frank talking

to someone in his chair.

There is the jingle of the door bell. Ed opens his eyes.

Two men in fedoras are entering.

Ed starts to rise.

OUTSIDE

The two men are staring at the sidewalk, smoking, hesitant

to speak. One of them finally comes up with an icebreaker:

Ed nods toward their car:

Beat.

Ed holds up one hand with its smoking cigarette.

His partner gives Persky a dirty look.

Ed stares at him.

He shakes his head.

RESIDENTIAL STREET

It is evening. Ed is pulling up to a house on a tree-lined

street similar to his own. He gets out of his car and goes

up the walk, and a man sitting on the porch swing holds up a

hand of greeting.

He steps up on the porch.

The man is holding a tumbler of whiskey and ice that clinks

as the swing moves. His skin glistens with drinker's sweat,

and he has the slightly expansive manner of someone who's

put at least a couple away.

Ed glances around but the swing is the only seat. He sits

next to Walter.

He belches.

The front door opens and someone speaks through the screen:

Ed looks around at the voice.

She steps out: it is Birdy Abundas.

Ed rises, and they awkwardly shake hands.

They watch her go back in.

Ed nods.

A beat.

He takes a sip of his drink.

He sniffs.

He takes a musing sip.

He thinks.

ED AT A TABLE

It is a long table with chairs stretching down both sides,

one side for prisoners, the other for visitors. The room is

empty except for a guard and an elderly woman who sits across

from a younger woman at the far end of the table. The younger

woman, in a prison smock, is wailing. The elderly woman is

holding her hand.

Ed sits across from an empty chair, clutching a flower-printed

toiletries kit. There are echoing voices suggesting large

spaces outside the room.

He sits and waits.

Approaching footsteps.

The door opens. A large prison matron steps aside to let

Doris enter.

Doris looks lost in a prison-issue jumper that is too big

for her. Her hair is uncurled and bedraggled. Not only is

she not made-up, she has a couple of bruises and a cut on

her lip.

As Ed stands, she gives a hollow look around.

She looks at him.

She shrugs.

She shakes her head.

Doris doesn't seem to be listening. She sighs:

Doris finally looks at him.

Her gaze drifts away again. She notices the sobbing woman.

Doris looks around and laughs.

BARBERSHOP

Ed sits in a waiting-customer chair, wearing his smock. Frank

paces in front of him. He smacks a fist into his palm.

BANK

Ed and Frank sit waiting on a bench in the high-vaulted lobby.

Frank looks uncomfortable in an ill-fitting suit. As they

wait, he looks nervously about.

In a hushed voice:

A door opens. A conservatively dressed man of late middle

age emerges.

Frank hops to his feet.

The man looks dubiously at Ed.

He goes to the glass-paned doorway to his office, Frank

trailing dejectedly behind. They enter, the door closes, and

we hear their muffled voices from inside, the sense of the

words lost.

Ed sits and watches the two men perform their pantomime of

business: Frank nervously reads documents with one hand cupped

to his forehead for concentration; the banker passes

successive documents across his desk with a word of

explanation for each as Frank signs.

Ed takes out a cigarette and lights it, watching impassively.

TRACKING POINT OF VIEW

It is midday. We are tracking along the sidewalk toward a

long cream-colored Packard parked at the curb. A couple of

kids have stopped to peer into the car's windows; the car is

no doubt the fanciest in town.

Ed, coming up the sidewalk, looks up at the storefront: a

restaurant with a large window with a plush red drape that

obscures the interior. Gilt lettering on the window spells

out "DaVinci's".

TRACKING POINT OF VIEW

Inside the restaurant. We are tracking toward a table whose

lone occupant sits with his back to us holding open a menu

as he orders from a facing waitress:

He flips the menu over.

He looks up at Ed.

The waitress sets a fruit cocktail in front of

Riedenschneider.

He points a finger at Ed.

The waitress puts down a plate of steak and eggs.

DRIVING POINT OF VIEW

We are looking at pedestrians on the sidewalk through the

windshield of a moving car.

On Ed, driving.

ED IN BED

Arms folded behind his head, staring at the ceiling.

On the ceiling is the moving shadow of a tree limb.

A distant, muffled knock.

Ed turns his head.

FRONT DOOR

Ed opens it as he finishes cinching a bathrobe.

The woman waiting on the front porch is dressed in black: a

black dress and a black veiled hat that is too big for her

bird-like frame.

Wind rustles in the trees behind her.

She stares at Ed.

For the first time, we hear her speak, in a low, tremulous

voice:

She shakes her head.

Ed nods.

After an uncomfortable beat, through which she continues to

stare:

She lays a black-gloved hand on his arm.

She falls silent. The trees behind her rustle.

She gives a wary look back. Then, confidingly, to Ed:

Ed is puzzled:

She gives him a searching look, hoping, it seems, that he

will find this significant.

Ed says nothing.

She touches his arm.

She turns and heads down the walk.

Her high-heeled footsteps echo on the walk, then the sidewalk,

then are lost in the rustle of leaves.

Ed watches her go: a small black figure, growing smaller.

PRISON MEETING ROOM

It is an unadorned room with a simple wooden table and chairs.

One high window lets in a shaft of sunlight.

Ed and Doris sit at the table; Freddy Riedenschneider stands

to one side staring up at the high window, hands dug into

his pockets.

All three are motionless for a long beat. Finally:

He starts pacing.

Riedenschneider gives him a hard look.

Another long pause.

Riedenschneider eyes him. Wheels start turning.

Doris eyes him. His manner does not reveal anything.

Riedenschneider rolls his eyes.

Ed returns Riedenschneider's stare. Riedenschneider resumes

pacing.

A nod of the head indicates Doris:

Another nod indicates Ed:

His pacing becomes more animated.

He is heading for the door.

The door slams.

HOTEL LOBBY

The camera drifts in toward the reception desk. Ed talks to

the clerk behind the desk, but the scene plays silently; we

hear only Ed's narration.

The desk clerk is shaking his head.

HALLWAY

It is a rooming-house hallway. A stern middle-aged woman is

on the hall telephone. This too plays silently under the

narration.

ED'S LIVING ROOM

We are drifting in toward Ed, who nods at the telephone and

then cradles it. He stares down at the business card he holds.

PULLING BACK FROM ED

In a different living room. He sits on a sofa, hands clasped

behind his head, listening. For the first time, as the voice-

over continues, we hear atmosphere from the scene: piano

music.

The continuing pull-back reveals Walter Abundas on a nearby

chair, also listening as Birdy plays.

Walter holds a drink in one hand; he is nodding; his eyelids

droop. As the piano piece reaches its mournful conclusion

his chin alights on his chest, his eyelids tremble closed,

and he starts lightly to snore.

BARBERSHOP

The distinctive buzz of electric hairclippers bangs in at

the cut. Ed and Frank stand behind their respective chairs,

administering haircuts.

The customer in Ed's chair is in white shirtsleeves that do

not hide rolls of fat. He has a hot towel over his face that

does not slow his speech, although it does muffle it to some

extent:

His voice turns into a drone under the narration.

CRANE DOWN

Inside a courtroom we boom down toward the defendant's table,

the fat customer's drone turning into the drone of the bailiff

reading an indictment. Doris stands next to Freddy

Riedenschneider.

Our boom down has ended close on Doris. We hear Freddy

Riedenschneider, off:

BARBERSHOP

Booming down toward the fat man.

OPERA SINGERS

We are panning photographic portraits of opera singers in

character, wearing the wardrobe of different eras, armies,

dukedoms, and boudoirs, and displaying the heights and depths

of various emotions, their mouths stretched wide in song. We

pan off the pictures to discover that we are in a hotel room,

floating in toward a bed on which Freddy Riedenschneider, a

mask over his eyes, slumbers.

RESTAURANT

Tracking in toward Freddy Riedenschneider, who sits twirling

spaghetti with a fork against a spoon.

LATERAL TRACK

From inside a car. Pedestrians bustle along a sidewalk. Among

them scurries a weedy little man who has one hand clamped to

the crown of his hat to keep it in place in a stiff wind.

LATERAL TRACK

Moving the opposite way. A different day, but again a crowd

moves along the sidewalk, and among them the little man

scuttles in the opposite direction, hand still raised to his

hat, his forearm and the tilt of his head largely obscuring

his face.

PUSHING IN TO ED

In the Abundas living room again, again listening to Birdy

at the piano, but now the two of them are alone.

The piano music ends in a sustain which begins to fade, but

then is snapped by a sharp clang.

PRISON DOOR SWINGS OPEN

We are pushing into the high-windowed prison meeting room.

None of its three occupants is moving.

The tableau consists of Doris staring down at the table; the

private investigator sitting on a straightbacked chair tipped

back against a wall, his arms folded across his chest, his

fedora pushed back on his head, a toothpick clamped between

his teeth; and Freddy Riedenschneider, standing, hands clasped

behind his back, gazing with a distant smile up into the

shaft of light that slants through the high window.

A warder shuts the door behind Ed.

Doris and the private investigator turn to note his entrance;

Riedenschneider does not.

Ed pulls out a chair across from Doris, clasps his hands on

top of hers.

She looks at his hands on top of hers.

A long beat.

Still gazing up into the shaft of light, Freddy

Riedenschneider announces:

His gaze up at the window breaks. He strolls around the room,

still smiling.

He stops to examine a bur on his fingernail.

He looks up at the private detective.

With a slight weight shift, Burns tips his chair so that its

front legs slap down onto the floor. He fishes a small

notebook from an inside pocket.

His boredom is profound; his only concession to performance

is to move the toothpick from one side of his mouth to the

other where, perhaps, it will less inhibit speech.

Burns looks at him sourly. He flips a couple of pages.

Riedenschneider nods, smiling.

Burns pockets his notebook, adjusts his hat, jams his hands

into his pockets, and ambles out of the room.

The slam of the door leaves quiet.

At length:

Riedenschneider's fixed smile now fades.

Ed and Doris look at each other.

He is looking at Doris.

He chuckles as he heads for the door.

The door shuts behind him.

Doris stares down at the table, as at the head of the scene.

A silent beat; a smile starts to tug at the corners of her

mouth.

The smile twitches, and then stays. Doris starts to laugh.

Ed frowns.

Her laughter builds, almost to hysteria. Finally it subsides

and, still staring at the tabletop and smiling, she shakes

her head:

ABUNDAS LIVING ROOM

Ed sits listening as Birdy plays. She talks, after a moment,

her eyes on the sheet music:

Over her continued playing:

A SIGN

The cardboard sign on an easel says "COME ONE, COME ALL /

PETALUMA HIGH SCHOOL TALENT SHOW / WEDNESDAY APRIL 29, 1949,

8:00 P.M.

SCHOOL GYMNASIUM

A young man holding a saxophone is just leaving the makeshift

stage to a smattering of applause. Birdy walks out to the

baby grand that has been set out center stage.

We track up the rows of folding chairs that have been set

out on the gym floor for the audience of students and parents,

many of whom fan themselves with programs. We come to rest

on Ed.

Birdy begins to play for the quietly attentive audience.

EXT. SCHOOL

Ed is among the crowd streaming from the gym into the warm

summer night. He looks around the parking lot.

A trace of a frown as he spots her leaning against a car,

laughing, passing a cigarette back and forth with another

student--a boy.

Birdy's easy smile remains as Ed approaches, but the boy's

drops; he puts on a face more suitable for meeting adults.

Silence. The teens wait for the adult to direct the

conversation; Ed has nothing to say. At length, he clears

his throat.

TURANDOT SUITE

It is morning. We are tracking past an unmade bed toward the

bathroom, where we hear water running.

We have rounded the open bathroom door to find Riedenschneider

hunched over the sink, toothbrush in hand, spitting out water.

He rises, looks at himself in the mirror, sprinkles some

tonic in his hair.

Riedenschneider runs his fingers through his hair.

He straightens his tie, gives his neck a twist.

COURTROOM

We are close on the back of Riedenschneider's gleaming hair.

He is sitting at the defense table.

There is a murmur of a crowd that has yet to be called to

order.

Ed and Frank sit next to each other in the first gallery row

directly behind Riedenschneider.

Ed shrugs. Frank looks at Riedenschneider's back.

Riedenschneider is curt:

Riedenschneider doesn't answer; Frank turns to Ed.

The murmur of the crowd subsides as a door behind the judge's

bench opens and the judge hurriedly enters.

The gallery rises but the judge quickly waves them back down

and, rather than seating himself, leans forward over his

desk to give a peremptory beckoning wave to Riedenschneider

and the prosecutor.

Riedenschneider, puzzled, approaches the bench, as does his

counterpart from the other table. The judge, still leaning

forward, speaks to them in a low voice that is not audible

from the gallery.

The crowd has started murmuring again, also in hushed tones.

Frank leans in toward Ed.

Ed, also puzzled, is watching Riedenschneider, who suddenly

stiffens. As the judge continues to talk, Riedenschneider

looks back over his shoulder at Ed.

The two lawyers nod at the judge and walk back to their

respective tables. The judge now summons a uniformed man

standing to one side.

As the judge and the bailiff confer, Riedenschneider looks

down at his desk and, for something to do, straightens various

papers.

The Bailiff Announces:

As the bailiff drones, Riedenschneider shakes his head.

BARBERSHOP

Late afternoon sun slants in.

The shop, not open for business, is very still. Ed, in his

courtroom suit, sits in one of the vinyl chairs that line

the wall, hunched forward, forearms on his knees.

Frank, also still in his suit, is up in one of the barber

chairs, one hand cupped to his forehead, weeping.

BEDROOM

Night. Ed is in bed, staring at the ceiling.

METROPOLE LOBBY

Riedenschneider is at the cashier's desk, checking out. Behind

him a bellman's cart is piled high with his bags.

FRANK'S HOUSE

Day. Frank's kitchen.

Frank sits at his kitchen table, staring, in a bathrobe thrown

over his pyjamas, unshaven.

BARBERSHOP

Ed, in his smock, works on a customer.

As he uses the electric clippers, a cigarette plumes between

his lips. He squints against the smoke drifting past his

eyes.

Ed's former chair is indeed being manned by a newcomer, a

gangly young man who animatedly chats up his customer.

EXT. BARBERSHOP

It is evening. Ed is locking the barbershop as, next to him

on the sidewalk, the new man continues to chat, gesticulating

to illustrate his store.

STREET

Ed walks along the sidewalk.

Indeed, none of the passers-by establish eye contact; their

averted eyes make the crowd a faceless throng.

HOUSE

As Ed lets himself in.

He sits on the couch and, after a beat, takes a cigarette

pack from his pocket and taps out a smoke.

BARBERSHOP

Ed is in his smock again, operating the clippers.

The drone of the clippers has continued over the black. A

voice fades up:

FADE IN

We are looking at a magazine story. Its headline, over an

illustration of a cresting wave, is: WAVE OF THE FUTURE.

Underneath are black-and-white photographs of heavy equipment

and racks of clothing on motorized tracks. Subheadlines read:

NEXT TO GODLINESS - Dry Cleaning Sweeps The Nation - The

Thoroughly Modern Way To Clean.

Ed sits in one of the vinyl chairs, staring at Life magazine.

The offscreen conversation drones on as the new man works on

a customer.

Ed flips the pages of the magazine, and stops on a photograph

of a dark desert landscape with one bright light hovering in

the sky. The caption underneath: ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO.

Ed looks up.

A man in a black suit and fedora has directed the question

at the new man, who looks up from his gabbling, momentarily

slackjawed.

Diedrickson looks around uncomfortably.

Ed rises from his chair and, as he unbuttons his smock,

addresses the new man, who still gapes.

BAR

It is late afternoon, dusty and empty.

Ed and Diedrickson sit on adjacent stools, Diedrickson cocking

his hat lower to its man-sitting-at-a-bar position.

As the bartender approaches:

Ed shrugs and shakes his head.

He leaves. Diedrickson interlaces his fingers on the bartop

and stares at them. After a beat:

Ed doesn't answer. Diedrickson, after some more staring at

his hands, plows on:

The bartender has set down the drinks.

Diedrickson waits for him to leave. He takes a hit from his

glass. Finally:

A pause.

Another pause.

He mutters to himself:

Diedrickson stiffens.

He is hastily digging for money.

He leaves a couple of bills on the bar and mumbles as he

leaves:

His retreating footsteps echo down the bar.

APARTMENT HALLWAY

It is a dingy hallway lit by bare bulbs. Ed stands in the

middle background, knocking on a door.

The door opens and Ed is admitted by the unseen tenant.

APARTMENT

We hear a low murmuring as we slowly pan the apartment. It

is overfurnished with heavy, ornate chairs, sideboards, chests

too big for the space and all going too seed. Surface areas

are covered with yellowing lacework or exotic brocades; the

one lamp has a veil thrown over it to further scrim down its

feeble light.

Our pan brings us onto Ed seated at a small card table across

from a small elderly woman in a shawl who is the source of

the murmuring. Her eyes are squeezed shut in concentration

as she mumbles.

The woman opens her eyes and looks at Ed.

Ed places his hand in the center of the table.

Ed looks at the woman's spotted and vein-lined hand as it

rests upon his. Her mumbling resumes.

Ed looks up at the old woman.

She is stealing a glance at Ed to check his reaction.

APARTMENT HALLWAY

Ed is leaving.

EXT. TENEMENT

Ed emerges from the building.

Ed disappears into the night.

ABUNDAS HOUSE

It is night. We are looking through the screen door. Walter

Abundas sits in yellow lamplight by a small table on the

side of the staircase, over which papers are strewn. He is

murmuring into the telephone as he examines the papers,

glasses halfway down his nose, a drink in one hand.

Ed's hand enters to rap on the door. Walter looks up, sets

the phone down and comes to the door.

Walter opens the door to him.

PARLOR

Birdy also has papers spread across a table in front of her:

homework. She looks up at Ed's entrance.

Ed sits across from her.

He is loading a cigarette into his mouth.

Ed stares. This takes a moment to register.

Birdy lowers her voice:

Ed is pocketing the cigarette.

Ed smiles thinly.

STUDIO WAITING ROOM

It is a small square room with straightbacked chairs set

against the walls. At the far end of the room a door leads

to a studio from which piano music dully emanates; it is a

fast and difficult piece of music.

Ed sits waiting. He is the only adult; two or three youngsters

of different ages sit apparently waiting for their lessons.

Ed looks at one of the waiting boys in a white shirt and bow

tie. He is perhaps eleven. His hair is greased back in a

Junior Contour.

Another boy, in a cardigan sweater, sports a Butch.

The piano piece is ending. There is the murmur of voices.

Dull footsteps.

The studio door swings open.

A small man in a rumpled black suit smudged with cigarette

ash is bowing Birdy out the door. He has a goatee and a

knotted foulard. His eyes flit over the waiting room and

settle on Ed.

He smiles at Birdy.

A jerk of Carcanogues' head bids Ed rise.

STUDIO

Ed enters, uncomfortable. He looks around, taking in the

high-ceilinged space, which is dominated by a grand piano.

Carcanogues has followed him and now runs water from a tap.

He uncaps a small bottle of pills, shakes two into his palm,

tosses them back and washes them down.

He twists a cigarette into a long holder, sticks it in his

mouth and lights it.

This elicits a Gallic frown of consideration.

Another gallic moue:

A two-handed gesture, indicating his heart.

He waggles his fingers:

His wave takes in the heavens:

DRIVING

We are driving through the rural countryside of northern

California. It is a two-lane road with little traffic. Sun

strobes the car through the passing trees.

Ed drives, glaring. Birdy, next to him, seems unperturbed,

ever cheerful.

Ed looks at her.

He loads a cigarette into his mouth.

She reaches over to touch his thigh.

She is leaning over his lap.

Ed is shocked:

He reaches awkwardly, wanting to push her away but not wanting

to be violent.

The blare of an oncoming horn.

Ed looks up, one hand struggling with Birdy, the other on

the wheel.

The oncoming car.

Ed swerves, tires screech into a skid, Birdy screams.

CRASH: the car hits a roadside tree.

BLACK.

A hubcap is skipping in slow motion along the road and then

off the road, down an embankment.

We are high, looking down at Ed, who is motionless, head

resting on the steering wheel of the stopped car. We boom

down toward his, slowly rotating as we move in. As we move

we lose focus; Ed becomes more and more blurry.

The blurry shape is now slowly spinning away from us, a bright

revolving disc spinning up into the darkness until it

disappears, leaving only black.

FADE IN

Ed sits on the front porch of his bungalow, smoking a

cigarette in the late afternoon light.

A dog barks next door; a distant screen door slams; children

are playing somewhere up the street.

Ed looks down at his watch. It is 5:30.

Something attracts his attention: at the foot of his driveway

stands a man in a cream-colored suit and hat. He is a small

figure, perfectly still, staring at the gravel driveway.

After a beat he lifts up a small clipboard, squints at the

house, and jots something down.

He finishes writing, screws the lid back onto his pen, and

is sticking it into a breast pocket when he realizes he is

being watched. His manner instantly warms.

The man starts up the walk.

Yeah.

Ed shrugs.

Ed shrugs again.

A car pulls into the drive.

Doris emerges from the car.

Doris gives him a hard look.

The man gives a practiced laugh.

Doris takes the brochure he has pulled from a small case.

Doris tears the brochure in half and hands it back.

The man gazes at her. His smile fades fast and he and Doris

stare at each other, two hard cases.

He turns stiffly and stalks off.

Once his gaze has broken, Doris turns as well. She stalks up

the stairs to the porch and bangs through the screen front

door of the house, letting it slam behind her.

Quiet, early evening.

Ed sits, smoking.

At length he rises and goes in to the house.

INT. BUNGALOW

It is dim, no lights on yet. We hear banging and clomping

from the kitchen.

Doris emerges with a clinking sound, chasing ice cubes around

a drink with a swizzle stick. Her face is still hard-set.

With a groan of its old upholstery springs she sits onto the

couch.

Ed sits as well. He draws on his cigarette, drags an ashtray

closer on the coffee table.

She sips. He puffs.

The sit. The light is failing. The clink of ice cubes.

In the black we hear machine noise of indistinct origin. As

the noise becomes more defined we also hear shouting, faint,

distant:

A blurry white disc is fading up. As it focuses it resolves

into the reflector worn by a white-robed doctor, leaning in

close.

He leans away, murmuring:

Ed is lying in a hospital bed. His face is bandaged and one

side is grotesquely swollen. The machine noise is life

support.

Two police officers, Persky and Krebs, lean in.

Ed's speech is thickened by injuries and anesthesia:

The doctor leans in.

Krebs raises his voice:

The voices are fading away:

UNDERWATER

Light glimmers in water. We are drifting down, down, down.

We bring in languidly waving arms--the arms of a child, waving

to keep himself submerged. It is a ten-year-old boy staring,

wide-eyed, at something in front of him. Bubbles

intermittently stream from his open mouth.

The reverse shows the car, also submerged, with Creighton

Tolliver inside, also wide-eyed, his hairpiece attached at

only one corner, the rest of it waving free.

TRACKING

We are tracking laterally across a line of faces: seated

men. The men rise.

We arc around a judge entering the chamber through the small

door behind his raised bench.

The judge seats himself and we resume out lateral track on

the jury, now reseating itself.

In response to a prompt from the judge the district attorney

rises to read the charge. His voice plays distantly, muted,

the words not discernible under the continuing voice-over.

Riedenschneider rises into frame at the defense table. As he

listens to the charge:

The drone of the D.A. has ended and Riedenschneider's echoing

voice drops into the hole:

Riedenschneider claps Ed reassuringly on the shoulder as he

sits next to him. Ed still wears a cast on one arm and one

leg.

JAIL

We are tracking in on Ed, lying on the bunk in his cell.

A reverse track shows a guard on a tilted-back straightbacked

chair, outside the cell door, staring at Ed.

COURTROOM

The district attorney is rising again, this time to address

the jury.

The district attorney is pointing at Ed.

The district attorney seats himself. The jury's eyes turn to

Freddy Riedenschneider, who studies the tabletop in front of

him, either digesting the D.A.'s opening statement, or seeking

inspiration for his own.

Riedenschneider rises, paces, begins to talk.

We pan the jury, solemnly listening to Riedenschneider.

Riedenschneider is striding energetically into the foreground

to point a finger directly at Ed's face.

A tap on the shoulder turns Ed around.

Frank socks Ed, sending him clattering to the floor.

A bailiff immediately restrains him, but Frank looms over

Ed, bellowing through tears:

Riedenschneider interposes his body between Frank's and Ed's,

loudly protesting:

Ed moves to get up, but Riedenschneider, with a sidelong

glance and furtive gesture, motions for him to stay on the

floor.

Ed is now standing next to a distinguished older gentleman

who enters the plea in the new trial:

The judge starts droning the sentence:

PRISON HALLWAY

We are tracking down the hall.

Ed is in the cell at the end of the hall, lying on his bunk,

hands clasped behind his head.

LATER

Ed sits at the little table next to his bunk, writing.

Recent issues of the magazine, Gent, and its sister

publication Nugget lie on the little desk. Their lurid covers

depict feature stories like I WAS ABDUCTED BY ALIENS and

AFTER TEN YEARS OF NORMAL LIFE, I DISCOVER I AM AN ESCAPED

LUNATIC.

Ed sets aside the pen, lies down on his bunk, and closes his

eyes.

We hear a pulsing treble hum. Ed opens his eyes.

The door to his cell is open.

He rises and goes through the door.

PRISON HALLWAY

Ed, alone, walks down the hallway. The pulsing treble hum is

louder.

PRISON YARD

Ed emerges into the empty prison yard ringed by high stone

walls. A hard spotlight shines down from above. Ed squints

into it.

The spotlight is from a hovering flying saucer. We see its

revolving underside and, as it irregularly cants, a bit of

its top bubble.

After spinning briefly, it tips and flies away, carrying the

tremolo hum with it.

Ed turns and re-enters the prison.

ED'S CELL

Ed is lying on his bunk, eyes closed, hands clasped behind

his head. A hand enters to shake him awake.

Three men loom over him: two guards and another man wearing

a surplice and holding a bible.

PRISON HALLWAY

He is walking the last mile.

A door at the end opens:

An electric chair. Straps open, and waiting:

Ed is placed in the chair.

A man stoops at his feet. He has a bucket of water and a

straight razor.

He waggles the razor in the water and starts shaving a patch

of Ed's calf.

Ed watches as the razor makes the trip from his leg to the

bucket of water, which begins to spot with small floating

hairs.

They are strapping him in, connecting the electrodes.

The men withdraw.

A thin man in a dark suit and fedora stands by the switch.

As he reaches for the switch, Ed looks up into the light.

