CLOSE SHOT   A WHISKEY TUMBLER

That sits on an oak side bar under a glowing green bankers

lamp, as two ice cubes are dropped in.  From elsewhere in

the room:

Whiskey is poured into the tumbler, filling it almost to

the rim, as the offscreen man continues.

THE SPEAKER

A balding middle-aged man with a round, open face.  He

still wears his overcoat and sits in a leather chair in the

dark room, illuminated by the offscreen glow of a desk

lamp.  This is Johnny Caspar.

Behind him stands another man, harder looking, wearing an

overcoat and hat and holding another hat--presumably

Caspar's.  This is Bluepoiont Vance.

Behind Caspar we hear the clink of ice in the tumbler and a

figure emerges from the shadows, walking away from the

glowing bar in the backgound.

The man with the whiskey glass has just passed the camera

and we cut to the:

REVERSE

Another well dressed, middle aged man, behind a large

polished oak desk, listening intently.  This is Leo.  He is

short but powerfully built, with the face of a man who has

seen things.

The man with the whiskey enters frame and passes Leo to

lean against the wall behind him, where he listens quietly.

Caspar purses his lips but continues unfazed.

Leo leans back in his chair.

The man behind Leo raises the whiskey glass to his lips.

He is trimmer and younger than Leo, perhaps in his thir-

ties, dark-complected, with a pencil mustache and a gaunt

intensity that is not entirely healthy-looking.  This is

Tom.

As he drinks, he studies Caspar and Bluepoint.

For the first time the man behind Caspar speaks:

Caspar shakes his head.

Airily:

Leo nods, thinking.  He swivels to look interrogatively at

Tom.

Tom gives an almost imperceptable shrug.  The ice cubes in

his glass clink.

Leo turns back to Caspar, pauses.

Tom, peering over his drink, does not entirely conceal his

surprise.

Caspar stares at Leo, his mouth open.  It is not the

response he expected.

Caspar's voice is harder:

Caspar is staring at Leo.  He looks at Tom, then rises

slowly to his feet.  Back at Leo:

He swipes his hat from Bluepoint.

He puts his hands on the desk and leans towards Leo.

The cords stand out on his ndck.

Caspar stops, out of breath.  He is red faced and panting.

Bluepoint has put a gently restraining hand an his shoul-

der.

Leo and Tom stare at Caspar impasssively.

After a beat Caspar shuts his mouth.  His eyes lose some of

their glaze.  He looks at Bluepoint's hand, turns and

strides towards the door.

He opens the docr, but Leo's voice stops him.

Caspar looks at Lea from the open doorway.  After a beat he

chuckles.

He dances over at Tom again, then back to Leo:

He leaves, Bluepoint following, shutting the door.

After a beat Tom crosses in front of the desk and sits down

in the chair Caspar has just vacated.  Leo chuckles and

leans back in his chair.

Tom swallows the last of his drink and stares ruminatively

down at his glass.

Leo, unfazed, grins at Tom.

Tom grins back, for the first time.

He picks up a phone on his desk and starts to dial.

Tom stands and walks over to the desk.

He takes the receiver from Leo and prongs the phone.

Tom walks to the door, putting an his hat.

He pauses in the doorway and turns back to Leo.

Leo chuckles good-naturedly.

Tom has stepped into the hallway and, just as he closes the

door:

The door clicks shut.

CUT TO BLACK

THE WOODS   CREDIT SEQUENCE

Although it is day, the tree cover gives an effect of

almost cathedral-like darkness.  The sun filters down

through the leaves in gently shifting patterns.

We hear only the sound of the wind and the creaking and

groaning of tree limbs in the breeze.

Head titles are supered over the dissolving series of woods

scenes.

In the last woods scene the angle is low--almost ground-

level.  The sun dapples the floor of the forest, which is

carpeted with pine needles.

With a whoosh of rustling leaves the wind gusts a fedora

into frame.  For a moment it lies still in the foreground,

sunlight rippling over it, making it seem almost alive.

Then the wind picks up again and the hat tumbles away from

us, end over end, in slow motion into the background,

impossibly far away until . . . it dissappears.

As we fade out, we hear a distant knocking.

CLOSE SHOT   TOM

Unshaven, eyes closed, motionless.

The head credits continue over this one-shot scene.

The knocking continues, faintly, offscreen.  As we hear a

door opening we pull back to a looser shot, revealinq that

Tom is slumped back on a tired green sofa.

A fat hand enters to shake Tom's shoulder.

Without ocening his eyes:

Tom sits up, though it seems like an effort.  He looks

sick.

From a small mirror behind the couch we see that we are in

the back room of a gambling establishment.  The leavings of

a card game litter a table in the middle background.

Tom reaches up to feel his head, and looks stupidly about.

After a beat of staring at nothing in particular, Tom

abruptly lurches to his feet and staggers out of frame.

The other man sits heavily onto the couch that Tom has just

vacated.  He is Fat Tony, a big man wearing an apron.

He watches as we hear Tom, offscreen, staggering across the

room, bumping into something which scrapes and then

clatters over, opening a door, staggering across tile, and

then vomiting.

Fat Tony watches with mild interest.

Finally:

Louder:

Offscreen we hear a tap running.

Tony shrugs.

Tony inspects a hangnail on his thumb.

A HALLWAY

A loose shot looking over Tom's shoulder as he knocks on an

partment door.  Head credits continue.

The door swings open and Verna, an attractive but hard-

looking woman in her late twenties or early thirties looks

coldly out at Tom.

She slams the door.

There is a long, motionless beat.  Tom raises his hand and

knocks again, missing the door completely on his first try.

After a knock or two the door swings open again.

She steps away from the door and Tom enters the apartment.

As the door clicks shut we cut to black, and the last of

the movie's head credits.

Music clays under the credits, mixed in with the woods

sounds we heard earlier.  As the last of the credits is

fading to black we hear a distant knocking, and from black

we:

CLOSE SHOT   A FEDORA

Lying on a marble bureau top in a dark room.  A gently

rippling cookie plays over it--light from a streetlamp

thrown through a curtained window.  Reflected in the bureau

mirror behind the fedora we see the soft glow of a burning

cigarette.

REVERSE

Tracking in on Tom, sitting in bed, smoking, staring at the

bureau.  The rippling street light plays over him from the

window.  We hear a distant knocking.

WIDER

The bedroom, as Tom swings his legs around and gets out of

bed.

Tom throws on a dressing gown and leaves the bedroom

through its double oak pocket doors, closing the doors

behind him.

Also dark, lit only by streetlight filtering in.

The knocking is louder here.  Tom crosses the room,

silhouetted against the windows, to the apartment's front

door.  Light fans in as he opens it.

Shiftng uncomfortably in the hallway is Leo, in an

overcoat and fedora.

Tom thinks about this for the slightest beat.

He lets Leo precede him into the living room.

Tom turns on a lamp that sits on a rolling bar.

As Tom sits down facing Leo with two drinks:

He waits, with no apparent impatience.

The older man is uncomfortable; he is having trouble

finding the words.  Finally he lifts his glass and swallows

it in one gulp.

Leo is shuffling his hat nervously from hand to hand.

Tom fixes him with a level stare, then takes a sip of his

drink.

Tom blows out air.

Tom stands up, takes Leo's glass and walks back over to the

bar.

Tom turns to look at Leo, pauses, then decides to speak:

Tom shrugs.

Tom stares down into his drink.  There is an awkward pause.

Then finally, without looking up:

Leo looks like he has just been stepped on.

He nods to himself.

Tom smiles.

Leo scowls at Tom.

Leo digs his hands into his pockets and slouches back,

profoundly embarassed.

Tom laughs humorlessly.

He looks from his empty glass up to Tom.

Tom gives a wave of disgust.

For the first time Leo displays some testiness:

He sighs, looks back down at his drink.

Leo smiles good-naturedly.

He stands and walks to the door.

Tom doesn't move.  His eyes remain fixed on the chair Leo

has just vacated.

Leo pauses in the open doorway.

The door closes and he is gone.

Tom grimaces and stands up.  Sunlight is just starting to

come in through the windows, defining for the first time

the corners of the large semi-circular room as Tom walks

across it to the bedroom.  Distant early-morning traffic

noise is filtering up from the street.

As Tom opens the double oak doors and enters, leaving them

open.

He crosses to the bed and sits an its edge, hunched

forward, thinking.  Behind him, a woman stirs.

He takes a cigarette from the nightstand and lights it.

Verna stiffens.

Verna relaxes.

Tom is lost in thought.  He exhales smoke.

Tom finally turns to face her.  After looking at her for a

beat:

A shoe flies past his head and hits the wall behind him.

We are on an extreme close shot of a small dog.  Behind

him, in the distance, we can see the mouth of the alley.

The dog is on point, perfectly still, one front leg crooked

and raised off the ground, his ears pointed straight up,

his eyes in a fixed stare.

A MAN

is slouched, half-sitting, against the wall of the alley.

He is motionless.  His mouth is agape.  His eyes are rolled

up in a lifeless stare.

He is wearing an overcoat but it is unbuttoned and reveals

a blood stain in the middle of his chest.  His fedora lies

on the ground near one of his splayed hands.

There is something subtly odd about his hair.

CLOSE SHOT   A LITTLE BOY

Perhaps five years old.  He stares down at the dead man in

front of him.

CLOSE SHOT   THE MAN

Staring vacantly.

THE BOY

After a moment, he reaches forward.

THE MAN

As the boy's hand enters frame.  The boy pokes once at the

man's shoulder.

There is no reaction.

The boy touches the top of the man's head.

The man's hair slips forward a couple of inches over over his

forehead.

THE BOY

Staring.

THE MAN

Also staring, his skewed hairpiece ill becoming his stunned

expression.

The boy reaches forward and takes the hairpiece off the

man's head.  Now a bald man stares off into smace, still

looking stunned, still quite dead.

WIDE SHOT   THE ALLEY

The dead man and the little bov face each other in profile

in the middle foreground.  In the background, between them,

the little boy's dog faces us, still on point, still

whining.

The little boy is fascinated by the hairpiece he holds.  He

turns it over and around, and looks from it to the dead

man.

Suddenly the boy turns and runs, away from us, towards the

mouth of the alley, still clutching the hairpiece.

As he passes the dog it turns and runs after him, wagging

its tail, happy to be leaving.

FADE OUT

INT   DINER EVENING

A man sits facing us at the counter in the foreground.  His

face is hidden by the newspaper he is reading.

The page of the newspaper being presented to the camera

bears a story headlined:  GANGSTER SLAIN.  The subhead:

Politician's "Aide" Found Dead in Alley.

After a beat the diner drops the paper to the counter, and

we see that it is Tom, wearing overcoat and hat.  He is

grimacing at whatever he was reading.  He stands and digs

into his pocket.

REVERSE

Looking down at the newspaper an the counter, next to a

steaming cup of coffee.  Tom's hand enters to put some

change on the counter, leaves, and we hear his receding

footsteps.

The headlined story on the page Tom was reading is:

THUNDERCLAP INJURED IN RACING MISHAP.

TRACKING IN TO CLOSE SHOT   PLAQUE

Set into the brick of a building's exterior, it reads:

SHENANDOAH CLUB.  In script underneath: Members Only.

Tracking towards the front door as Tom enters.  He puts his

coat and hat on the check counter.

Her arm sweeps across frame to slap Tom hard.

Tom stares dumbly.

ON BERYL

A diminutive woman in a french maid's uniform with a pill

box hat.  She rocks her weight on one leg with her hands

proceed defiantly on her hips.

She throws a check number at him.

TRACKING SHOT

Pulling Tom as he walks across the gambling floor.  He is

joined bv a nervous young man in a tuxedo.

Mink throws a glance back in the direction of the coat

check.

Tom looks at Mink for the first time.

Tom has reached the foot of a large staircase.  He turns to

look at Mink with mild curiosity.

Tom studies Mink for a beat.

He sics on his cigarette and looks nervously around the

floor, then back at Tom, who stares coolly back.

Mink is startled.  In a high shrill voice, as Tom walks up

the stairs, clutching his drink:

Pulling Tom as he enters the office.

REVERSE

Leo faces us from behind his desk.

Seated in two chairs facing the desk, twisting around to

greet Tom, are two men.  O'Gar is a large man wearing a

police uniform.  Dale Levander wears a suit; a florid man

with a shock of white hair, in his mid-sixties.

Levander chuckles.

Tom is crossing to the bar.

Tom, his back to Leo as he pours a drink, stiffens.

Drink in hand, Tom turns and crosses to perch an a corner

of Leo's desk.

Leo, with a puzzled smile, glances at O'Gar and the mayor,

and then back at Tom.

He looks at the mayor who shifts uncomfortably in his seat.

Morosely:

Looking at Leo, he jerks his head towards the two men.

Tom ignores them.

Tom's voice is sharp:

The mayor has risen to his feet.  Uncomfortably:

Leo is getting up from behind the desk and walking over to

stare out the window.

Leo doesn't reply.  Tom is irritated, but shrugs indif-

ference.

He gets to his feet and starts for the door.

Leo has turned from the window and is striding after Tom,

gesturing appologetically.

The door clicks shut.

FAT TONY

Tending the downstairs bar as Tom stalks over.

Tony has finished pouring a shot of whiskey which Tom

immediately knocks back.

Tom is pouring himself another drink.

Tom is irritated:

Drink in hand, Tom is already walking away.

As Tom bangs through the door, still carelessly holding his

tumbler of whiskey.  A rogue lock of hair hangs down over

his forehead.

REVERSE

The hubbub of female voices evaporates as all turn to look

at the male intruder.

The lounge's decor is done in various shades of pink.  Some

of the women apply make-up facing the large bulb-encircled

mirrors on overstuffed seashell shaped pink chairs.  Other

women sit, smoking, in the banquettes that line the other

wall.

All react to Tom's entrance with surprise mixed with

various degrees of outrage, and they hurry to gather their

things and leave.  The one exception is Verna, who looks at

Tom with unperturbed distaste.

As he crosses to her seashell chair:

She glances hurriedly around the lounge, but the last of

the women are already leaving.

Verna studies him for a beat.

Tom weaves a couple of steps closer to her.

She turns back to the mirror and starts applying her

lipstick.  Tom drops down to face her in the mirror.

Tom swallows the rest of his drink in one gulp.

Verna causes with the lipstick.  She looks at Tom intently

but her tone softens.

Verna swivels around to stare quizzically at Tom.

Now Verna is irritated:

He grabs her by the arm and drags her roughly to her feet.

Tom takes her hat off, tosses it onto the chair, and kisses

her roughly on the lips.

Verna breaks away and socks him on the jaw.  Tom staggers

back, upsetting a table of toiletries and landing against a

banquette.

He throws his empty whiskey glass at Verna.

She ducks and it smashes into the mirror.

They stand staring at each other for a beat, breathing

hard.  Tom has a smear of lipstick near one side of his

mouth.

Finally:

She picks up her stole and heads for the door.

Tom stands staring at her back, swaying, ever so slightly.

INT   TOM'S APARTMENT

A wide shot, facing the semi-circular windows, the door of

the apartment behind us.  A large easy chair in the middle

foreground faces away from us: a smaller chair is at the

window end of the room, facing us.

At the cut we hear the ringing of the telephone.

Offscreen we can hear the unhurried scrape of a key in the

lock, then the door opening, then the door closing.

Tom's back enters frame as he strolls into the room and

then disappears briefly through an open doorway to the

right.  We hear an icebox door opening and closing, and

then Tom reenters again, still not reacting to the insis-

tently ringing phone.  He is now holding a balled-up towel.

He walks over to the facing chair at the window end of the

room, shrugs off his overcoat, drapes it on the chair,

sits, crosses his legs, takes off his hat, tosses it onto

the upraised toes of his crossed leg, tilts his head back,

and presses the towel against his forehead--apparently it

is an icepack.

We are beginning to track slowly towards him.

After a beat he takes out a cigarette, lights it, and

reaches back for the phone that refuses to stop ringing.

He casually looks forward, just off to one side, at a

specific point in space.  He does not react to whatever he

is hearing.

We are almost in close shot now.  His gaze is still fixed

and emotionless.

He prongs the earpiece, still looking off.  The track has

stopped in close shot.  He exhales a stream of smoke, then

after a beat:

REVERSE

Slouched in a chair, in the corner of the room, facing Tom,

is Bernie Bernheim.  He is about thirty and wears his

overcoat and hat and a good-natured smile.  He holds an

apple in one hand and a paring knife in the other.  The

long peel of the apple corkscrews down off the knife.

After a silent beat, Bernie chuckles.

Bernie slices off an apple section and holds it out to Tom,

who shakes his head.

He pops the slice in his mouth.

Bernie laughs pleasantly.

Bernie shrugs.

For the first time, Tom is interested.

Tom gives Bernie a speculative eye.

Tom gives a humorless smile.

Bernie is getting to his feet wiping the knife blade on his

coat.

He pauses at the open door, looks up and down the hall and

turns to look at Tom.

On his way out:

On the click of the door latch we cut to:

Pulling Tom along the sidewalk.

He is calling out to a short rail-like man lounging against

a building who joins him as he walks.  Cud has small sharp

features except for one cheek, which is hugely distended by

a wad of chewing tobacco.

Cud gives a so-so flutter of his hand.

Cud shakes his head.

Cud shrugs.

Another man, a huge man, has walked up to flank Tom's other

side.  This is Frankie.

Cud starts to fade away.

It is a large room with a couple of card tables, straight-

backed chairs, a ratty sofa--a sparsely furnished card room

off the main floor of a club.

At the cut we are tracking behind Tom into the room as

Frankie and Tic-Tac, a small ferret-faced-man, escort him

in.  We hear a woman's voice speaking rapid-fire Italian.

Bluepoint is sitting on the couch, wearing his overcoat and

his hat pushed back an his forehead.

Sitting at one of the card tables is Caspar.  With him is

his wife, a short, very round Italian woman, and his son,

Johnny Jr.  Johnny Jr., about five years old, is also very

round.  He wears a suit with short pants that reveal

dimpled knees.

Bluepoint, an the couch, is watching the domestic scene

without any particular warmth.

He turns to the little boy.

The boy shakes his head.

Caspar throws his head back and roars with laughter.

Bluenpoint's face is a solem mask.

Caspar wipes away tears of mirth and digs in his pocket

with his left hand.  Extending two closed fists towards the

boy:

The boy touches his right fist.

The boy just looks at him.

To his wife.

Tic-Tac and Frankie dig in their pockets for change as the

boy and his mother cross to the door.

Caspar has turned his attention to a check book that lies

on the table in front of him.  As he writes:

Absently:

He tears out the check.

He blows on the check.

Caspar laughs.

Bluepoint sneers from the couch:

Caspar shakes his head sadly.

Tom considers this.

Caspar stares at him for a beat, then slowly starts to tear

up the check.

He gets up and walks over to the door.  Tic-Tac opens it

for him and precedes him out.

Before following Caspar out the door, Bluepoint grins at

Tom.

He leaves, shutting the door.

The room is quiet.

Tom looks at Frankie, the large man, who looks back.

Frankie stands, takes off his suit coat, and hangs it

carefully on a rack by the door.

He approaches Tom.

Frankie complies.  Tom is standing and shrugging off his

coat.  He folds it neatly and turns to lay it on the chair

he was in.

When he turns around again he is holding the chair and he

smashes it into Frankie's face.

Frankie staggers back but doesn't drop.  He reaches up to

his nose and his hand comes away bloody.

Tom still holds the chair.

Frankie looks at him for a moment, then walks over to the

door, opens it, and leaves, shutting it behind him.

The room is very quiet.  Tom stands facing the door, still

holding the chair.  After a beat or two, he starts to put

it down.

The door opens and he quickly raises the chair again.

Tic-Tac, the little man with the hawk nose, is striding

into the room, briskly approaching Tom.  Frankie, the

gorilla, follows cautiously.

Tic-Tac blocks Ton's swing of the chair with his forearm,

wraps both arms around it and pulls it awav from Tom.  As

Frankie circles Tom, Tic-Tac tosses the chair across the

room.

Frankie, now behind Tom, wallops him in the small of the

back.  The blow sends him staggering towards Tic-Tac, who

cracks him in the jaw.

Frankie grabs Tom's hair and yanks his head back as Tic-Tac

works on his midsection.  Tom's hands are reaching back to

grope for Frankie.

Still holding his hair with one hand, Frankie cuffs Tom

awkwardly on the side of the head.  Tom staggers around and

Tic-Tac, now behind him, also hits him on the side of the

head.

Tom goes down.  His head hits the floor with a thunk.

We are on a low angle an the floor.  Behind Tom's head, in

the background, we see the door to the room.

The door splinters in with a loud crash.

Frankie's feet are walking up alongside Tom's head, as blue

uniforms stream into the room.

He brings his foot back to deliver a walloping kick to the

back of Tom's head.  On the impact we cut to:

BLACK

Over black we hear the sound of running water.

TOM

Gasping for air as his head is pulled out from under a

running faucet.

The uniformed policeman who was holding him there and is

now pulling him back up, grins at him.

Tom is still woozy.

He is leading Tom by the arm out of the cramped bathroom,

back into the card room where he was beat up.  Another cop

has Frankie cuffed in a straightbacked chair and is taking

roundhouse swings at him.  He pauses, breathing heavily.

As Tom and the first cop leave the card room:

Tom and his escort are emerging onto the casino floor.

Blue uniforms are everywhere.  Some are escorting tuxedoed

patrons and employees to the exit; some wield axes on the

gaming equipment; others are using nightsticks to smash the

bottles behind the bar.  Tom winces at this and lights a

cigarette.

He takes a battle and glass from a table as they walk by.

We see that the building's facade claims to be SABBATINI'S

ANTIQUES AND COLLECTIBLES.

Tom weaves across the street with his battle and glass

towards O'Gar, the police chief, leaning against a squad

car, chewing a toothpick.  He is watching morosely as his

men load other men into paddywagons; the street is clogged

with police vehicles.

O'Gar does not bother to look at Tom as they talk; he is

unhappily watching the spectacle.

Tom pours himself a glass.

He tosses back a shot.

He nods at the building.

He taps him on the chest.

O'Gar looks chastened.

He is interrupted by gunfire from an upper story of the

facing building.

O'Gar's men react, finding cover, returning the fire.

O'Gar unholsters his gun as he and Tom scramble for cover.

We are shooting over Tom's shoulder as he knocks at the

door to Verna's apartment.

After a beat, Verna opens the door.

On seeing who it is she starts to swing the door shut.

Tom puts his toe in the doorway and leans into the door.

As he pushes his way in:

As Verna gives up and Tom enters.

Verna walks over to the phone.  As she dials, Tom tosses

his hat onto a chair and checks the apartment to see if

they're alone.

Tom grabs the phone away from her.

He takes a flask out of his packet and looks across the

room towards Verna.

We hear a voice barking through the line and Tom turns back

to the phone.

He hangs up the phone and tips the flask back, draining the

last drop.

Tom is crossing to the bar.

He pours himself a drink.

He gives her a sick grin.

He looks at her.  She holds his gaze.

Tom shrugs.

Verna looks at him.

Verna smiles.

She turns to walk across the room.

Tom grabs her wrist.

He draws her close.

She reaches up, takes off his hat, and tosses it casually

away.  We pan with the hat to where it lands on the floor,

in front of a curtained window.

ANOTHER WINDOW   NIGHT

A living room window, open, its white sheers billowing

lazily in the draft.

Faintly, from another room in the house, we can hear a

phonograph playing John McCormack singing "Danny Boy".

At the cut we hear a thump, close by, and briefly the

sounds of a struggle.  We then hear a breathy, gurgling

sound, which quickly subsides.

The living room is late-night quiet.

The shot is a lateral track, which brings us off the window

to an end table in the foreground.  On the end table is a

pouch of Bull Durham, a package of rolling papers, a cup of

coffee with steaming rising off of it, and a section of a

newspaper.  The draft gently lifts a couple rolling papers

off the table.

The continuing track takes us off the end table and,

booming down, shows us an upset chair and the legs of the

man who occupied it.

We track along the man's body to discover that he is face-

down on the section of newspaper he was reading, blood

oozing out of his slit throat onto the newspaper.

The continuing track shows that, between the fingers of one

outflung hand, a cigarette burns.  It is resting on the

newspaper.

We see the feet of another man who is turning and walking

away from the man on the floor, into the background.  We

pan over to watch him recede, framing out all of the dying

man except his outflung hand and cigarette.

As the walking man recedes, more and more of his topcoated

body crops in.  By the time he reaches the house's front

door, in the deep background, we can see him full figure.

The newspaper in the foreground is crackling into flame.

The rug it rests on is beginning to smoke and discolor.

As the man in the background opens the front door we jump

in:

OVER HIS SHOULDER

Waiting in the darkness just outside is another man in a

topcoat and fedora.  He is holding two tommy guns.

The men do not exchange words.

The man outside hands his partner a tommy gun and follows

him as he walks back into the house.

Still faint, we continue to hear "Danny Boy".  We also hear

the lick of flames.

The song is louder at the cut.  We are in an upstairs

bedroom.

LEO

Stretched out an his bed, wearing a robe over his pyjamas,

smoking a cigar, listening--but only to the phonograph.

Its sound covers any other noise in the house.

A close track on the two pairs of feet climbing the stairs.

We see only the feet, the swaying hems of the topcoats and,

occasionally dipping into frame, the muzzles of the two

tommy guns.

Leo, is motionless, looking down, a puzzled expression.

HIS POV

The floor.

Thin smoke is beginning to sift up through the floorboards.

Tracking on the approaching feet.  The song grows louder.

Leo, looking, slowly taking the cigar from his mouth.

BEDROOM DOOR

From inside as--CRASH--it is kicked in.

LEO

Hitting the floor and rolling under the bed.

THE TWO GUNMEN

Striding into the room.

LEO

On his belly under the bed, facing the door, swinging a

handgun in front of him.

HIS POV

From floor level, the bottom of the mattress above us, the

floorboards stretching away.

The bed crops the two gunmen mid-shin as they swing their

guns up, firing.

RAT-TAT-TAT-TAT--the hems of their coats sway as they fire.

The floorboards in front of us are pocked by bullet hits

that walk across the floor towards the bed and hit the

mattress.

The mattress above us dances under the gunfire as ticking

sprays down at the floor.

Smoke curls up throuch the floorboards.

LEO

Jaw clamped on his cigar, he starts firing.

HIS POV

Blood spurts as one gunman takes a hit in the ankle.

He staggers and his tommy gun clatters to the floor.

LEO

Still firing.

HIS POV

The other gunman is ducking out the door.

The injured gunman pitches forward, head towards us, his

hat rolling off.

LEO

Firing.

HIS POV

A bullet hit in the top of the fallen man's head.

LEO

Rolling out from under the bed.

He stoops to pick up the dead man's tommy gun.  Thick smoke

seeps up through the floor.

The phonograph plays.

Leo ducks through another door.

Facing down the length of the dark hallway, towards the

mouth of the stairs.

As Leo leaps across frame in the foreground, to enter a

facing room, muzzle flashes erupt at the end of the hall--

where the other gunman has been waiting in the darkness.

Leo throws open a window.

As Leo rolls out onto the long sloping eave of a front

porch.

His gun skates down the eave and falls.  Leo grabs the rain

gutter, hangs by his hands and drops down to the front

lawn.

The first floor of the house is in flames.

From a high angle the camera swoops down on Leo as he picks

up the gun and backs away from the house, looking up at the

second story.  His open robe flaps in the breeze.  The dead

cigar is still clamped between his teeth.

LEO'S POV

The second floor window that he just emerged from.

Staccato gunfire erupts in the dark room.

The strobing gunfire makes a strobing shadow of the gunman,

whose back is to us as he rakes the room with fire.

LEO

Firing, the gun jumping and bucking in his hands.

The gunman, riddled with bullets and showered with broken

glass, spins around, his thompson still firing uncontrol-

lably.

Bullets dance across the walls and ceiling, blast out the

remaining glass and sing harmlessly into the trees outside.

BACK TO LEO

As we hear the screech of skidding tires.  A black coupe

takes a curve on the street behind him, machine gun fire

spitting out of the back window.

Leo turns, in the glow of the fanning flames, walking

calmly into the street, firing at the receeding car.

ON THE CAR

Growing smaller, still snitting fire and lead.

PULLING LEO

Still walking calmly up the street, the gun still bucking

in his hands.  Bullets whistle by and claw up the pavement

around him.

BEHIND LEO

His robe whips back in the breeze.  He fires again and we

hear the distant sound of shattering glass.  The car

weaves, runs up off the road, hits a tree and bursts into

flame.

A figure emerges from the car and staggers off into the

darkness.  He is on fire.

CLOSE ON LEO

As he stops, squinting, raising the gun.

HIS POV

The burning gunman zig-zagging into the darkness.

BACK TO LEO

A faint smile curls around the cigar.  He drops the muzzle

of the gun.

The shell of the car explodes in a fireball as we:

UPSTAIRS HALLWAY   SHENANDOAH CLUB

The explosion echoes over the cut as we track up the

hallway behind Tom and a tall cadaverous man with pre-

maturely white hair.  This is Dead Terry McGill.

Gunmen of every description line the hallway, lounging

against the walls, barely acknowledging the two men.

He is opening the door to admit Tom.  In a low, gravelly

voice:

As Tom enters.

Leo is bellowing into the phone:

He slams down the phone.

Tom goes to the bar to pour himself a drink.

He takes a sip.

Leo chuckles.

Tom stares at him.

Leo leans back in his chair, puts his feet up, and gazes

out the window.

There is a long, awkward silence.  Leo avoids Tom's look

but finally responds to the silence:

Tom takes a deep breath, and exhales.

Absently:

This gets Leo's attention.  He turns to look at Tom.

Leo stares at Tom.  He seems somewhat dazed.

He gazes off again, shaking his head.

Tom's tone is gentle:

Leo has taken his feet off the sill and has turned back to

face Tom.  He studies him carefully.

Tom's suddenly very earnest, almost beseeching.

Leo is still staring impassively at Tom.  Tom doesn't

flinch from his gaze.

After a long beat Leo gets up slowly from his chair, walks

over to the window, shoves his hands in his pockets and

gazes out.

For a moment Tom looks at Leo's motionless back, but he has

nothing left to say.  He rises, plucks his hat from the

desk and goes to the door.  Before exiting, he looks back.

Leo, in long shot, is still gazing out the window.

Tom exits.

Pulling Tom up the hall.

Behind him we can see the door to Leo's office opening and

Leo coming out.  He strides up the hall after Tom.

Tom turns as Leo reaches him.

Leo, without breaking stride, seems to walk right into him,

throwing a punch that catches Tom on the chin and sends him

stumbling back, his hat flying off.

The men 1ining the hall watch with casual interest.

Tom staggers into one of the men who catches him.  Another

man has picked up Tom's hat and now hands it to him.  The

first man shoves Tom back into the middle of the hall just

in time for the approaching Leo to land another punch

against his jaw.

clutching his hat.

Leo is clomping down the stairs; his army of private

retainers clomp down behind him.  In his shirtsleeves and

chomping an unlit cigar, Leo looks like a labor leader

taking the rank and file to the barricades.

Tom claws himself up the wall to his feet.

Leo has reached the floor and still without breaking stride

uppercuts Tom with a blow that straightens him up and sends

him staggering like a drunk into gamblers in evening

dresses and tuxedos.

A path clears for Leo and his entourage.  He has not

slackened his pace, but is also not hurrying.  Tom weaves,

watching Leo approach, but makes no attempt to defend

himself.

Leo grabs his own wrist with one hand and swings his elbow

up to catch Tom with a sharp blow on the side of his face.

Tom spins into a screaming lady in a sequined evening dress

and sinks to the floor grabbing at her bodice and skirt for

support.  She bats at him with her handbag as he slips

down.

Fat Tony emerges from the crowd and helps Tom to his feet.

He raises his hand to stop Leo.

Leo stops, panting.  He is looking at Tom, but speaking to to

Tony.

TOM'S APARTMENT

Wide shot of his living room, facing the windows.  It is

night.

Tom sits with his back to us at the window, feet propped up

on the sill.  He is smoking a cigarette.  A full ashtray on

a table at his side indicates that he has been sitting

there for some time.

We are slowly tracking in.

The telephone sits on the the arm of his chair.  After a

moment he stubs out the cigarette, picks up the phone and

dials.

Offscreen we hear a knocking at the door to the apartment.

Tom ignores it.

The knocking continues.

He cradles the phone, lights another cigarette, takes a

drag, blows a thoughtful cloud of smoke and turns to face

the door.  After a beat he rises and leaves frame.

THE DOOR

As Tom swings it open.  Verna stands in the hallway

outside.  After a wordless beat she moves past him into the

apartment.  Tom turns and follows her.

He walks over to his bar, pours two drinks, then crosses

the room to Verna who has seated herself, hands her a drink

and sits down in a chair facing hers.

The thought is bitter but her tone isn't:

Tom looks at her.

Verna returns his look, then answers evenly:

After a beat Tom, his eyes still on Verna, brings the glass

to his lips and takes a sip.  The ice cubes clink.

FADE OUT

THE BEDROOM

Tom sits perched on the edge of the bed, smoking a ciga-

rette.  Verna is in bed behind him.  The lamp on the

nightstand is burning a faint yellow.

The telephone rings.

As Tom reaches for it, Verna stirs behind him.

He reaches over to switch off the light; when he does the

room remains illuminated by dull gray light; it is dawn.

He hangs up, and continues to smoke, staring absently off.

Tom answers without turning to face her:

Tom turns to look at her, then turns back and looks out the

window.

He takes a drag an the cigarette.

Tom rouses himself, rises, and we pan to follow as he picks

up a shirt and starts buttoning it in the bureau mirror.

Verna stares at him.

Tom shrugs.

Tom grimaces into the mirror.

Tom is starting to knot a tie.

Verna looks at him.

She gazes off.

Into a dark office.  Behind him, Frankie, his nose swathed

with bandages, is closing the door from the outside.

TOM'S POV

Caspar sits behind his desk.  Bluenoint sits slouched on a

couch to one side, wearing his hat, his hands jammed into

the pockets of his overcoat.

In two chairs facing the desk, away from us, sit two men

who are twisting around to smile at Tom.

The mayor and O'Gar are already rising to their feet.

Tom sits into one of the vacated chairs facing Caspar.

Tom turns to look at Bluepoint.

From the couch, Bluepoint sneers:

Caspar cheerfully continues, oblivious to any hostility in

the room:

He chuckles.

Caspar smiles at Tom.

Caspar laughs.

Caspar laughs.

Bluepoint says nothing.  His scowl is set in cement.

There is a beat through which Caspar continues to smile at

Tom.

He rocks back in his chair and dries his eyes.  Tom smiles

pleasantly.  Finally Caspar sighs.

He turns to look at Bluepoint.

Caspar looks at Bluepoint.  Bluepoint's eyes bare into Tom.

Tom shrugs.

Caspar is still staring at Bluepoint, no longer smiling.

He nods at Tom.

Tom shrugs.

INT   CAR

Tom sits behind the wheel of the parked car; we are an his

profile.

Tom's face is rigidly set; we don't know why as we watch

him for a short beat.

BAM--with a loud impact Bernie Bernheim's face is slammed

against the driver's window.  Tom still faces forward.

Bernie is wailing as he is muscled back away from the

window by two topcoated torsos--their faces above the car

window.

They muscle Bernie out of frame towards the rear of the car

and we hear the back door being opened.

Bernie's voice, off, is near hysteria:

As Frankie and Tic-Tac pile Bernie into the back, we

continue to hold on Tom's face.  He still does not react.

Tom still doesn't react.  There is a beat of Bernie's crying.

Finally:

As Tom reaches forward and starts the car:

Day.  A wooded area outside of town.  The wind blows.

The car pulls into frame and stops on the shoulder.  The

backseat passengers--Frankie, Tic-Tac and Bernie--emerge;

Tom remains in the driver's seat.

Bernie is weeping, loudly; he has lost control.  Frankie

takes out a gun and whacks him smartly on the side of his

head.  The blow sends him stumbling over towards Tic-Tac,

who kicks him down.

The blows haven't quelled Bernie's sobbing.

Frankie takes a swig from his flask and hands it to Tic-

Tac, who leans in the car window.

INT    CAR

Tom gazes forward, jaw set, eyes off the doings outside.

As Tic-Tac hands his gun in through the window:

Tom stares dumbly at the gun.  Tic-Tac holds it, grip

towards Tom, motionless.

After a beat he takes the gun.

Tom opens his door.

WIDE   EXT

Bernie is still on the ground, sobbing, not responding to

Frankie who prods him with his foot.

Frankie drags him to his feet.

He pushes him towards the woods and reaches for the whiskey

flask.

Bernie stumbles off; Tom follows him.

Through the woods, pulling the two men, Bernie in the

foreground.  Tree limbs groan in the wind.

Bernie is stumbling, his clothes rumpled and dirty, his

face stained by tears and blood from the gun blow.  His

shaking voice strains for a tone of reasonableness:

Tom marches on, face drawn, silent.

Still no response from Tom.  Bernie is fighting a losing

battle to keep himself from whining.

Tom's face is a ---ny mask.  Bernie is losing control

again.  He starts to weep.

He turns and sinks to his knees, wailing, his hands clasped

in front of him, staring up at Tom.

Tom stares down at Bernie, his face drawn and pale.

Slowly Tom raises the gun and levels it at Bernie's head.

BOOM!  The gun blast is deafening.  With it, Bernie's

sobbing abruptly stops.

The shot echoes away in the woods, taking the wind with it,

leaving silence.

CLOSE   BERNIE

Still kneeling, in shock, staring wide-eyed at Tom.

Finally, whispering:

Still whispering:

Bernie is already on his feet, and running.

CLOSE ON TOM

Watching Bernie go.

TRACKING

Pulling Bernie as he runs.  Foreground trees flash by.  In

the background we see Tom standing, his gun dangling at his

side.

Boom!--another gun blast.  Running, Bernie reacts, but Tom

has only fired into the ground.

On the echo of the shot we cut to:

Tic-Tac and Frankie are leaning against the car, trading

the flask back and forth.

In the background, Tom emerges from the woods.

Tom takes a few steps more before answering:

FADE OUT

Over black we hear the sound of coins being dropped into a

phone box.

Looking down a deserted street towards a glowing phone

booth on a dark corner.  Tom stands inside the booth

waiting, the receiver to his ear.

CLOSE ON TOM

Inside the phone booth.

Tom hangs up the phone, turns around and opens up the glass

door.

WHOMMMP!  A fist slams into his stomach, driving him back

into the phone booth, knocking his hat off of his head.

The man who hit him leans down, picks up the hat, dusts it

off and hands it into the booth.  It is Dead Terry, the

tall cadaverous man we saw earlier outside of Leo's office.

A cigarette dangles from his lower lip.

Behind him a black sedan is parked at the curb.  Three or

four gunmen stand on the sidewalk looking warily up and

down the road.

Tom looks up, the color drained from his face, and reaches

feebly out for his hat.

Dead Terry flicks his cigarette away and smiles.

Terry starts to turn away.

Tom moves to exit the booth but Terry lays a hand on his

shoulder.

He cracks Tom across the chin with a clean left hook,

knocking him back into the booth again.

Tom rubs his chin, looking up at Terry.

As Terry and the gunmen get into the car:

We FADE OUT as the door slams and the car roars off.

Over black we hear:

On Tom, sitting into frame in Caspar's office.

Behind his desk, Caspar is smiling.

Tom's eyes hold an Caspar's.  He is taking out a pack of

cigarettes.

His eyes on Caspar, Tom takes out a cigarette, lights it,

takes a deep drag.

Caspar laughs.

He throws his hands up.

Caspar stares at Tom.

Caspar looks at Tom.

He thinks for a beat.

He figdets.

Caspar is staring intently at Tom.  After a beat:

Caspar seems lost in thought:

We hear the door to the office open offscreen and Johnny

Jr. runs into frame clutching a scrolled piece of paper.

Caspar holds his hand up to quiet the youngster, still

looking at Tom.

As Tom rises to his feet:

Cascar has cuffed him sharply on the side of the head.

He points at Tom.

Cascar looks at Tom and smiles.

He picks up Johnny Jr., who is crying softly, and sets him

in his lap.  Encouraged by the attention, the child starts

wailing.  Caspar bounces him on his knee and raises his

voice over the sobs:

He pats his jacket where his shoulder holster is.

Tom takes a contemplative drag on his cigarette.

CLOSE SHOT   A MAN'S FACE

Crunch!--being hit by a gloved hand.

The blow and the man's grunt echo.

CLOSE ON A NEWSPAPER

As the noise of fists against flesh continues, echoing, in

the background.

The newspaper headline reads: PARTY BOSS LOOSES MUNICIPAL

CONTRACT.  The subhead reads:  Liam (Leo) O'Bannon Removed

From City Highway Commission;  New Construction Contracts

To Raffo Bros.

ON TOM

Leaning against a pillar in a large bare room with a

hardwood floor.  He is reading the newspaper.

We are in a gym.  In a ring in the background two boxers

are sparring as two or three old men with towels slung over

their shoulders and elbows hooked over the ropes idly

watch, and offer occasional bits of half-hearted advice.

We hear high heels echoing across the floor and Verna

enters.

Tom looks out at the fighters in the background, avoiding

Verna's look.

She reaches out to touch his hand--

She leans in to embrace him.

Tom's eyes drift up to the fighters.

Peeling paint on its blackened-out window reads: Gleason's

Gym.  Training in The Sweet Science.

Verna is exiting the gym in long shot.

We pull back to bring Bluepoint into frame.  He sits in the

driver's seat of a car, watching through his side window as

Verna recedes.  Quietly:

An offscreen voice, a passenger:

Bluepoint thinks, a short beat.

Bluepoint reaches for the ignition, as we hear the car door

open.

INT   SPEAKEASY

A hand swings through frame holding the barrel of a gun,

smashing the butt into a surprised face.

With a loud crash the surprised man stumbles back into a

table and hits the floor.  Legs and the skirts of an

overcoat approach the prostrate, round, middle-aged man and

start kicking him.

He rolls across the floor trying to shield himself from the

blows.

Whisper, the man standing over him, has a long scar across

his neck.  He has a rasping voice:

Bert, another enforcer, is down at the end of the bar with

Tom.

As he kicks at the little round man:

In the background Whisper continues to hector and kick at

the round man as Bert and Tom talk in the foreground.

He is handing Tom a briefcase.  As Tom leans over the bar

to drop it behind:

Bert is pouring himself a drink.

Whisper, gun drawn, calls from the back of the bar:

Bert shrugs into his overcoat.

Bert shrugs.

The round man scrambles to his feet and runs out the back

door.  Whisper puts away his gun and saunters over to Tom

and Bert.

As the three men head for the front door:

As the three men emerge into the afternoon sun.

Bert gives a so-so flutter of his hand.

BOOM!--Behind the three men the front of the speakeasy

blows--glass flying, flame licking out.

Though there is commotion among the passers-by, Tom, Bert

and Whisper don't even turn around to look.

As Whisper trots out into the street:

There is a faint but distinct popping sound.

Tom looks into the street.

Whisper is staggering around, as if drunk.  He turns to

face Tom and Bert.

He lurches toward them.  A red stain is blossoming on his

chest.

The ambient hubbub fades to total silence; we hear only the

crisp staggering scuffle of Whisper's shoes as he stumbles

into the foreground, looking stunned.

He drops.

A woman screams.

Noise wells up.

Bert is unhoistering his gun, looking up.

Tom looks where Bert is looking.

FACING ROOFTOP

A man with a distinctive shock of white hair--Dead Terry

McGill.  He puts up his gun and starts running along the

roof.

BERT

Starts running along the street to keep pace, firing up at

the facing roof.

A POLICE CAR

Siren wailing, up on two wheels, taking a speeding turn

onto the street.

It is speeding towards Bert.

PULLING BERT

Running, he is pointing, and bellowing at the car:

POLICE CAR

Cops with guns hang out every window.  They start firing.

TRACKING TOWARDS BERT

A hail of bullets cuts him to pieces.  A limp rag, he hits

the road.

The police car squeals to a halt in front of his corpse.  A

sergeant and his men pile out.

Tom is sauntering over, smoking a cigarette.

Tom's attention is drawn by something down the street.

HIS POV

About a block away, a man with white hair is crossing the

street, from the side where the sniper's shot came from.

BACK TO TOM

As he starts to leave.

Behind him the Sergeant bellows at another cop:

Dead Terry McGill sits at a stool looking angrily down at a

cup of coffee.  Tom enters to sit next to him.

Through the windows behind them, we can see people running

back and forth on the street, a fire engine racing past--

furious activity, its noise muted inside the diner.

Terry does not even look over at him.  Sullenly:

He tosses some coins onto the counter and gets up.  We hold

on Tom as Terry talks to Tom's back:

He puts a hand on Tom's stoulder and swivels him around.

Terry clenches a fist and draws it back to throw a punch.

Tom and Terry look at each other, Tom making no movement to

defend himself.

After a long beat, Terry uncldnches his fist and sneers:

DOORKNOB

As--CRASH--a foot enters to kick it and the door in.

INT   VERNA'S APARTMENT

Verna is backing away from the door--behind us--into the

apartment.  Bluepoint strides into frame.

Verna continues to back away; Bluepoint continues to

advance.

He glances around the room.  Verna is backing around the

couch.  Bluepoint continues to follow her.

She continues to back away; Bluepoint continues to follow.

She picks up her purse from the sill behind the couch and

rummages.  Bluepoint doesn't seem to mind.

Verna has taken a gun from her purse; she levels it at

Bluepoint.

As he continues to stride towards her:

His hand shoots out in a flash--he has grabbed the gun with

one hand, her arm with the other.

Verna is stuggling in his grasp to no effect.

Bluepoint drags her close, nose to nose:

Verna stops resisting and stares at him.

Bluepoint stares back at her, thinking.

We hear a footstep offscreen.

REVERSE

Facing the door, from behind Bluepoint and Verna.

Bluepoint wheels, swinging her body in front of his as two

topcoated men enter, guns drawn.

Both intruders hold fire, their shot blocked by Verna.  The

gun in Bluepoint's hand barks once.

The lead man pitches forward, his gun clattering away.

His partner is ducking back out the door.

Verna still struggles futilely; Bluepoint keeps his gun,

peeking out from behind Verna, trained on the empty

doorway.

The man an the floor, still alive, has started clawing

himself towards his gun, a few paces away.

Bluepoint ignores him.  He stares at the open door.

After a silent beat, from the hall:

BANG--Bluepoint fires.

Wood splinters in the door, which shudders back a few more

inches towards the wall.  The voice from the hall has

stopped short.

After a short silent beat, we hear a gun clattering to the

floor outside in the hall.

We hear fabric drag across wall, and then see the dead man

drop to the floor just outside the door.

Bluepoint tosses Verna away and saunters unhurriedly over

to the first man, who has almost reached his gun.

Just as the man's hand closes over it Bluepoint, in stride,

steps onto the hand and gun.  Most of his weight is on it.

Head cocked, he looks down at the man in front of him.

The man is sweating.

Bluepoint points his gun at the man's head.

BANG.

Bluepoint straightens up from the body and turns.

LOW AND WIDE ON BLUEPOINT

One corpse an the floor beside him, the other corpse in the

doorway behind him.

He absently wraps one hand around the warm barrel of the

gun, then brings the hand up to blow against its open palm.

HIS POV THE WINDOW

The main zoom is now empty.  Sheers billow at the window,

now open, that let's out on the fire escape.  Off:

WINDOW  NIGHT

Sheers billow in the breeze.

TOM

Sitting up in bed, smoking a cigarette, thinking.  The

bedroom is dark.

There is a knock at the apartment's front door. Tom

reacts, but does not immediately rise.

The knock is repeated.

Tom finally throws the covers off and swings his feet

around to the floor.

But the knocking stops and another sound brings him up

short:  The person at the door is now playing with the

lock.

Tom sits motionless, listening.

After some rattling we hear the lock spring, then the door

swinging open, then shut again.  We hear footsteps cross

the main room, and then the squeak of chair springs.

Silence.

Tom rises and walks to the living room doorway.  He leans

against the jamb.

The windows throw moonlit squares onto the floor.  We can

see only the legs of someone sitting in the armchair.

Bernie turns on the lamn on the table at his elbow.  He

holds a gun casually in his lap.

Tom shakes his head.

He crosses to the chair facing Bernie's.

Bernie leaves room for a response but Tom is only listen-

ing.

Tom still doesn't answer.

Tom is silent.

Bernie's lip is quivering.  His voice is softer:

He stares hard at Tom for a moment.

Bernie gets to his feet, keeping the gun trained on Tom.

He has opened the door to the flat.

The door shuts behind him.

Tom, heretofore very still, springs from the chair, goes to

the bedroom and reemerges with a gun.

He bolts for the door, instinctively grabbing his hat off a

hook.  He is wearing only his boxer shorts, a sleeveless

tee-shirt, and the hat jammed onto his head.

He throws open the door.

Empty.

Tom runs to the bannister and looks down.

HIS POV

A flight down, a hand slides down along the railing.

Bernie's trotting footsteps echo in the stairwell.

TOM

He runs back to his apartment.

Tom runs across to the open window and clambers out.

Tom trots down.  His bare feet ring dully against the steel

of the fire escape.

He reaches the bottom landing, swings over the railing,

hangs by his hands for one brief moment and then drops.

THE ALLEY

As his bare feet hit the pavement.  Tom is a silhouette in

the lamplight from the end of the alley.

He straightens from his crouch and runs.

BACK DOOR

Of his apartment building--over Tom's shoulder as he enters

frame.  The empty, brightly lit hall inside runs straight

the length of the building to the front door, which is just

closing.

Tom throws open the back door.

As Tom runs through toward the front.

Before reaching the door, he falls violently forward.

His gun skates away from him across the floor.

He starts to roll over to look behind him and a crunching

blow catches him on the chin, snapping his head the rest of

the way around and sending him flat onto his back.

Bernie, who has emerged from under the staircase, towers

over him.

He is walking over to Tom's gun, which he picks up and

unloads into his hand.

He tosses Tom the empty gun and walks out.

Tom, white-faced and shivering, pulls himself up to sit

leaning against the wall.

A first-floor apartment door opens and a sixty-year-old

woman emerges, pulling a housecoat tight.  She goggles at

Tom.

Tom tries a smile that looks idiotic.

LONG SHOT   THE HALL

Clucking sympathetically, the old woman is leaning down to

help Tom up.  As he drapes an arm over her shoulder:

FADE OUT

CLOSE SHOT   PLAQUE

Set into an exterior wall, identifying the SHENANDOAH CLUB.

Tom, in his overcoat and hat, is walking up to the bar.

Behind the bar, Tony looks sour.

Tom works to keep his smile.

Tom shrugs.

Staring at Tom, Tony blows air through his teeth.  He sets

up a drink for Tom.

Tom downs the drink in a gulp.

From offscreen there is a loud CRASH and, with that, many

of the club patrons start screaming.  Tony looks off and

Tom swivels to look.

As he shoves off from the bar:

Uniformed policemen are pouring into the club, wielding

axes.  They destroy everything in their path, sweeping the

elegantly dressed patrons before them.

Tom wades into the sea of blue and nods at Delahanty, the

policeman we know from the raid on Caspar's.

It is just cracking dawn.

O'Gar is leaning against a car, facing the club, taking in

the scene as he glumly chews on a toothpick.  The street is

clogged with police vehicles.

Tom approaches.

He shakes his head.

He reacts to gunfire from the second story of the club.

As he heads off:

As he walks along a nearby street; we can still faintly

hear the sirens and police activity back at the club.

A black touring car is tooling up alongside of him.  Tic-

Tac leans out the driver's window.  He has welts around his

mouth and looks like he has been a little roughed up.

Still briskly walking:

The car screeches over to put a wheel on the sidewalk and

block Tom's way.  The back door swings open and Frankie

emerges to help Tom in.  Like Tic-Tac, Frankie looks a

little worked over.

Tom quickly sizes up the situation and decides to comply.

As Tom sits into the back, next to Bluepoint.  Frankie

slides in after him.

The car starts moving.

He sneers:

His eyes narrow at Tom.

Defensively:

Tic-Tac sulks.  Bluepoint turns and gazes out the window of

the car.

It is morning; the sun is now fully up.  Bluepoint and Tom

walk side-by-side through the woods.  Frankie and Tic-Tac

walk several steps ahead of them, each off to one side,

searching.  Frankie is singing an old Neapolitan song.

Tom walks a little unsteadily.  His shoulders are hunched

and his hands are jammed into his overcoat packets.  He

stares woodenly forward.  Bluepoint laughs softly.

Tom tramps mechanically on.  His eyes drift up.

HIS POV

Tracking.  A canopy of leaves, sprinkled by sunlight.

The boughs of the trees sough quietly in the wind.

We hear the unearthly groaning of the tree limbs.

TOM

Looks forward.

Bluepoint calls out:

Tom tramps on.

HIS POV

The backs of Frankie and Tic-Tac as they walk on ahead.

Frankie is still singing.

TOM

He looks stupidly at Bluepoint.  He looks ahead.

He stops abruptly.

Tom is still for a moment, then with jerky movements gets

down on his knees, hugs a tree with one arm for support,

and vomits.

Bluepoint watches him, then calls out to Frankie and Tic-

Tac:

He grabs Tom's hat off his head and flings it away.  Then

he plants a foot against Tom's side and shoves him to the

ground.

CLOSE ON TOM

As his face hits the ground.

Bluepoint's foot enters; he plants it an the side of Tom's

neck to keep him pinned.

TOM'S POV

Skewed angle, from the ground.

Frankie is ambling back, singing.

BLUEPOINT

Checking the open chamber of his gun.  He snaps it shut.

As he levels the gun at Tom:

TOM

Closing his eyes.

From offscreen:

FRANKIE

He stops singing and turns to look.

TOM

The foot comes off his neck.

BLUEPOINT

Looking towards Tic-Tac.

TIC-TAC

Taking a handkerchief out of his breast pocket and bringing

it to his face as he looks at something on the ground in

front of him.

BLUEPOINT

He hauls Tom to his feet and pushes him towards Tic-Tac.

We track behind the two men as they approach Tic-Tac and

Frankie enters from the side.

We cannot yet see what is on the ground in front of him.

Frankie is taking out his hankie as he draws near.

He looks up at Tom as Tom approaches.

Over Tom and Bluepoint's shoulders, stretching away from

us, face-up, is a body.  We cannot see much of its face;

what we do see is pulp.

Tic-Tac is laughing, incredulously.

EXTREME LONG SHOT

Four very small men in overcoats and fedoras, looking down

at the ground; they are dwarfed by the surrounding trees.

Very faintly we can hear:

QUICK FADE OUT

APARTMENT BUILDING DOOR BUZZER

A beat-up panel in the building's entryway, listing

tenants' names and apartments opposite a row of buttons.

A hand coasts along the names and stops at CLARENCE

JOHNSON/4C, then moves away and presses two other buzzers

on the fifth floor.

After a beat, we hear the front door buzz open.

Tom walks up to 4C, unpocketing a gun.  He gently tries the

knob, which turns, and enters.

As Tom enters.

Drop Johnson is sitting at a table in the living room,

which also serves as kitchen and dining room.  He is a

large man with a thick neck, a low forehead, and rather

vacant eyes.

He is looking up at Tom, a spoonful of cereal frozen

halfway to his mouth, a folded-back newspaper in his other

hand, opened to the funnies.

Uncomfortably:

As he talks, Tom walks casually around the apartment,

bumping open doors, sticking his head in each room.

Drop's head swivels to follow Tom around the room; aside

from that he does not move.  He speaks cautiously:

Tom nods.

Drop doesn't respond.

Drop maintains a sullen silence.

Tom is picking up a hat from a clutter on top of a bureau.

Tom's stroll through the apartment has brought him behind

where Drop sits.

Tom puts the hat on top of Drop's head.  Drop's eyes roll

up to look at it, but otherwise he still doesn't move.

The hat, too small, sits ludicrously atop his head.

Tom starts toward the door.

He pauses with his hand on the knob.

He slams the door.

A LARGE WINDOW

We are looking at the ground-floor window from the street.

Letters stencilled on the glass identify the SONS OF ERIN

SOCIAL CLUB.

A topcoated man scurries into frame, knocks out a pane with

the grip of a gun, and tosses a small pipelike device

inside.  He scurries away and we pan with him across the

street to reveal a line of cars, police and civilian,

parked along the far curb.  No men are visible except the

scurrying man, who takes cover behind one of the parked

cars.

SOCIAL CLUB

A beat.  From inside we hear a pair of trotting footsteps--

BOOM!  The window blows out, spitting glass into the

street, along with a large dark form.

THE STREET

Glass showers the pavement and a charred rag-doll of a body

hits hard, face down, and skids a couple feet.  Smoke wisps

from it.

THE CLUB

A lick of flame from the bomb is already dying and heavy

grey smoke is billowing out.

THE STREET

Men start cautiously rising from behind the cars.  A lot of

men.  Some wear police uniforms; some are civilians.  All

are armed.

THE CLUB

Billowing smoke.

THE STREET

The men have straightened up.  A policeman calls through a

bullhorn:

THE CLUB

After a beat, the front door swings open.  A man emerges,

one hand in the air, one holding a handkerchief over his

mouth.

He walks into the middle of the street.

One of the civilians behind the cars fires.

The man takes the bullet in the chest and drops to the

ground, where he twitches.

The man who fired, in the foreground, grins.  A ripple of

laughter runs down the line of men.

THE CLUB WINDOW

Smoke still pouring out.

With a RAT-A-TAT-TAT muzzle flashes from inside illuminate

the smoke.

THE STREET

Bullet hits chew up the cars and a few of the men; the

others drop back down behind the cars and start returning

fire.

THE WINDOW

A forbidding black hole in the exterior wall.  A second

tommy has joined the first to pour lead out into the

street.

RECEPTION AREA

Tracking in an a youngish secretary in a severe dress,

sitting behind a desk.

Faintly, from a distance, we can still hear gunfire.

REVERSE

On Tom.

Tom is already heading for the door.

As he opens the door:

A grand, high-ceilinged place.  Mayor Levander sits behind

his desk sputtering, his face turning purple.  Caspar,

sitting across from him, is also turning purple.  Sitting

to one side are two identical thirty-year-old men, appar-

ently twins, mustachiced, silent, respectful, mournful,

their hands clasped over the hats in their laps, wearing

stiff new-looking suits with old-fashioned collars.

Caspar is furious:

The mayor mops his face with a handkerchief and looks

beseechingly at Tom.

The mayor looks flabbergasted.

The mayor retreats and Casmar stares at the two men sitting

to the side.

The two men look at each other, then back at Caspar.

The immigrants rise and leave the room.  Caspar takes out a

handkerchief and wipes his brow.

The secretary enters the office with a bottle of whiskey, a

soda siphon and ice.  She places it an the mayor's desk and

leaves.

We can still hear faint gunfire and an occasional booming

explosion that rattles the windows of the office.

Tom is walking over to pour himself a drink.

Tom stares at Caspar for a beat.

Caspar squints at Tom.

He gazes off.

Uncomfortably:

He leans back in the mayor's chair and gazes off, sucking

his lips in and out as he thinks.  Finally:

Caspar shakes his head.

Tom shrugs.

Caspar studies Tom.

He looks off again.

Tom laughs bitterly.

Caspars eyes flash.  Tom's tone softens:

Caspar goes slack.

Tom stands up.

Caspar, miserable, rubs his face.  From the distant street,

we hear another booming explosion.

TOM'S APARTMENT

The phone is ringing at the cut.

We are looking at the window sill upon which the phone

sits, with an empty chair facing.

Footsteps approach and Tom sits into frame and takes the

phone.

Through the phone:

We hear Bernie laugh.

More laughter.

After a moment's hesitation:

Another hesitation:

Down to business:

He hangs up.

HALLWAY

We are close on Tom as, in overcoat and hat, he emerges

from his apartment and looks down at the keys in his hand.

WHAP--A fist swings into frame to connect with Tom's cheek.

He falls back.

Three topcoated men loom over him.

Tom is massaging his face.

The first man nods at the other two.

The two men pick Tom off the floor and start to work him

over.  He doesn't resist.

The first man watches dispassionately.

He lights himself a cigarette.

The two men work in silence for a while.  Tom too is

silent.

Finally:

The two men back away from Tom, breathing heavily.  He

slides down the wall to the floor.

Tom speaks thickly, his head propped against the baseboard:

With a jerk of the head the first man signals the other two

and the trio turns to leave.

DOORWAY:  NIGHT

We are looking over Tom's shoulder as he waits in the rain

in front of a large oak doorway with wrought-iron fretwork.

At the cut we hear chimes dying, and the door swings open.

There is a grand foyer with a parquet floor, unsittable

furniture and a large chandelier.  A liveried butler looks

inquiringly out at Tom.

He steps back.

Tom is handing the butler his hat.

INT   FOYER

As Tom starts to shrug out of his coat, Caspar is crossing

towards him.

Caspar seems as unhappy as last time we saw him.

This has woken Caspar up:

Tom shrugs.

Having handed the butler his coat and hat, Tom lets Caspar

lead him towards a pair of double doors.

tracking behind the two men as they enter the trophy room.

The room has the low warm light of a men's club.  Outside

the dark windows the rain sheets down.

Caspar sits in behind his desk and swivels away to poke

morosely with a fire shovel at the blaze in the fireplace.

In the foreground, back to us, Tom rests his knuckles an

the desk to lean towards Caspar.

As he looks into the fire:

Tom is momentarily taken aback.

A chuckle comes from behind

REVERSE

On Tom.  In the background, Bluepoint is walking over to

the door to the room to close it.

He points with a nod towards the couch.

On the couch sits Drop Johnson.  Drop's face looks worked

on, and is beaded over with sweat.

Having shut the door, Bluepoint is sauntering over to Tom.

He shakes his head.

He is nose to nose with Tom, smiling at him.

He shrugs.

Tom holds Bluepoint's look.

Very quickly he delivers two slaps--forehand and backhand.

Tom's head rocks but he recovers to stare back at Blue-

point.

He grabs Tom by the lapels, swings him away from the desk,

and lands a punch on his chin.

Tom stumbles backs.

Caspar has turned from the fireplace, watching the doings

across the room.

Bluepoint moves towards Tom, breathing hard with antici-

pated pleasure.

Bluepoint's hand snakes out and grabs Tom by the front of

the coat, hauling him close.  He slaps him savagely.

In one motion Bluepoint's hands wrap around Tom's throat

choking him off.  As the pressure increases, Tom, purpling,

sinks to his knees.

WHANG--a shovel blade swings into frame to smash Bluepoint

in the face.

He drops.

From somewhere in the room, a scream.

Bluepoint is on his hands and knees, one hand pressed over

his ruined face, blood pouring from between the fingers.

He stands over Bluepoint with the fireplace shovel.

He swings the shovel back and delivers an overhand blow to

the top of Bluepoint's head.

Bluepoint drops to the floor, instantly motionless.

The scream, however, continues.

Drop Johnson, on the couch, his eyes wide, his hands

spastically squeezing his knees, is looking down at

Bluepoint.  Drop's mouth is stretched wide.  He is scream-

ing.

Tom gets slowly to his feet.

Cascar looks at Drop.

He is striding over to him with the shovel.

Tom intercepts him.

Caspar is panting.

Drop does.

There is a beat.

Incongruously, Caspar's bellow breaks the silence:

Another silence.  The rain.  The crackle of the fire.

Tom's tone is soothing:

Caspar stares at him through glazed eyes.

Caspar is staring at him.  His eyes have lost some of their

glaze.

Drop is suddenly screaming again.

Caspar looks where Drop is looking:

Bluepoint is raising his head, moaning.  His face is a mask

of blood.  One hand gropes in his overcoat pocket for his

gun.

Caspar shouts over Drop's howl as he pulls something from

his desk drawer:

He strides over to Bluepoint.

With the gun point blank against the back of Bluepoint's

head, he fires.

Tom recoils.

A large wall clock.  It is 3:30.

We are pulling back and down to reveal that we are inside a

diner; we are isolating on a section of counter on which

sits a half-empty cup of coffee and an ashtray half-filled

with butts.  A hand puts some change on the counter and

leaves frame.

As Tom pushes the door open and exits.  He tucks his

overcoat collar up as he walks; it is pouring rain.

Tom turns at the sound of approaching heels and recognizes

Verna with some surprise.  He glances up and down the

street, but it is deserted.  Verna doesn't seem to much

notice the rain.

Coldly, as they walk on together:

Tom glances at her.

They walk on for a beat, Tom looking down at the sidewalk.

Finally:

Tom again glances around, and escorts Verna into a dark

doorway alcove.  It is very small; they have to crowd into

each other to stay out of the rain.  Water drops from the

brim of Tom's fedora.  He studies her for a beat.

Tom shrugs.

She is raising a gun into frame: She presses it into his

stomach.

Tom stiffens but continues to stare at her calmly.

Verna looks at him.

She raises the gun and presses its barrel into the under-

side of Tom's chin.  Tom stiffens but remains calm.

Verna stares at him.

Verna pulls back the hammer.  There is a long beat.

Verna's eves widen, locked an Tom's.

Tom returns her look; his is sympathetic.

Verna starts trembling.

Tom's tone is soft, understanding.  It's the first time we

have ever seen compassion from him.

She abruptly lurches away and staggers a couple of paces

onto the sidewalk in the rain.  She hugs a lamppost for

support.  She is staring down at the street, still trem-

bling.

Tom walks up behind her and rests a hand an her shoulder.

She doesn't look around.  After a moment:

She shrugs off his hand and stumbles off down the street.

Tom watches her dissappear into the rain.

TREE LIMBS

Night, but sometime later--it has stopped raining.  The

branches groan in the wind.  As they sway, streetlight

glitters off the leaves, still wet with rain..

We are booming down to reveal that we are in front of Tom's

building, its windows dark.  During the boom we hear the

rumble of an approaching car and the hiss of its tires on

wet asphalt.

The boom down ends as the car pulls into frame to stop at

the curb with the camera framed on the driver's window.

The driver has a small bandage on his left cheek.  We hear

Caspar's voice as we hear him getting out the back:

We hear the back door slam and Caspar appears in the front

passenger window.

As Caspar walks off the driver slouches back, pulls his

fedora over his eyes and folds his arms across his chest.

A back enters frame in the foreground.

The driver looks up, startled.

We still don't see Tom's face.

The driver shrugs.

REVERSE

Wider, from the other side of the car, as the car pulls

away.

Tom walks into the foreground, toward his house; we tilt up

to hold him.

The low-angle shows us the tree behind Tom, its branches

still creaking in the wind.

Crack crack--we hear two gunshots from inside the house.

Tom stops momentarily in close shot, looking up, and then

continues on out of frame.

We follow him as he walks into the building and slowly down

the first-floor hall.

The hallway is quiet excent for a light moaning wind.

Beyond Tom we see the door to the first-floor apartment

crack open a slit.  Hissing:

The door opens wider.  Mrs. Zarpmas, wearing a housecoat,

her gray hair down in braids, sticks her head out.

Tom looks up towards the staircase, then back at Mrs.

Zarpas.

She stares at him, nods.  As she drapes on a raincoat:

She pauses.

Tom stares at her.

Finally, he nods.

Mrs. Zarpas returns his dazed nod, and shuffles away.

So far, upstairs, all is quiet.

PULLING TOM

As he starts slowly towards the staircase.

TOM'S POV   TRACKING FORWARD

A small black object on the staircase--an upside-down

fedora.  Blood drips with a hollow rattle down onto a step,

a couple steps above the hat.

PULLING TOM

He looks up.

POV

A head sticks through the balusters of the second story

landing return.  The body is on its back; the head lolls

back over the tip of the landing down towards the stair-

case.

Our climbing low angle shows us mostly the back of the

head.  The body's far shoulder has knocked out a baluster

whose splintered bottom juts down towards the stairs.

PULLING TOM

Still climbing, looking at the body.

HIS POV

Climbing and panning as we draw even with the head.

It is Caspar.  Blood has been expelled through his nostrils

over his mouth and chin.  His face is deep red.  His eyes

stare glassily at Tom.

PULLING TOM

As he reaches the top of the stairs and swings around to

face along the landing.  We hear a chuckle, close by.  Wind

is groaning through the hallway.

POV

In the middle foreground Caspar lies an the floor; beyond

him, Bernie leans against the doorframe in Tom's open

doorway, smiling, his arms folded over his chest.

The balusters stretch away in a regular line, throwing

vertical shadows upwards against the opposite wall.

Tom leans against the wall and looks morosely down at

Caspar.

Tom doesn't answer.

Tom shrugs, still staring down at Caspar.

Bernie takes his gun out of his overcoat packet and

saunters over.

He looks down at Caspar, unable to supress a smile.

Tom shrugs again.

Tom jerks his head towards Caspar.

Bernie shakes his head.

Tom shrugs again.

He stoops down over Caspar's body and starts feeling

through Caspar's pockets, looking for something.

Bernie is walking towards him, emptying the bullets from

his gun.

Tom looks back over his shoulder.  Bernie hands him the

gun, which Tom slips into his overcoat packet.

As he goes back to the body:

He finds Caspar's gun and sets it on the floor, but keeps

looking.

He has found a wallet and is thumbing through it.

Tom has taken out the money, rifles it, and replaces the

wallet.

Bernie is peering over Tom's shoulder at the monev.

Tom straightens up, Caspar's gun in hand.

Bernie shrugs.

Tom is stuffing the money into his pocket.

He nods towards Caspar's body.

Bernie's smile is fading.

Alarm is beginning to rise:

He looks down at Caspar and then back at Tom.

Tom pops the chamber of Caspar's gun, glances in, and snaps

it shut.

Bernie's eyes widen.

Bernie fights against hysteria:

He sinks to his knees, his voice rising.

BANG--Bernie splays backwards from the knees, a bullet

drilled neatly through his forehead.

Tom drops the gun by Caspar's body.

Unpocketing Bernie's gun, Tom goes over to his corpse and

drops it there.

We pan with Tom's legs to bring his doorway into view as he

walks into his apartment, to the window chair in the

background, and sits with his back to us.

The windows show daylight breaking.  Far away a clock

strikes the quarter hour.

Tom is picking up the phone and dialing.  Waiting for an

answer, he reaches over to turn off the feeble yellow lamp

burning chairside.

As we start to FADE OUT, we can hear Tom talking into the

phone:

A BEAT OF BLACK

THE HALLWAY

Of Leo's club, leading to his office.

We are tracking over Tom's shoulder as he walks down the

hall, led by Dead Terry.

Tom gestures with the drink he is carrying.  Its ice cubes

clink.

We can hear muffled bellowing coming from Leo's office,

growing louder as we approach.

Terry seems embarassed:

They have pulled up in front of the closed door to Leo's

office.

Leo's bellowing, inside, abates for a moment.  We can hear

another voice, muffled so that we don't hear words, but

only the voice's plaintive quality.

Leo's bellowing cuts it short.

As he leaves frame:

Terry calls after him:

Pulling Tom as he walks across the gambling floor, drink

still in hand.

Behind him we can see workmen busily repairing the damage

done to the club in the police raid.

Halfway across the floor Tom stiffens and slows, seeing

something.

Verna is entering the club.

The two meet.

They both lean against a counterstop and look out at the

floor.

There is a silent beat.  Verna scowls.

Tom lets this drift.

Verna tries to compose herself.

Verna looks at him intently.

Tom still looks at her evenly.

Verna studies him.

She looks at him a beat more, then out at the floor.

WHAP!  Verna slaps him hard.  His head rocks under the

blow.

She stalks off.

Tom watches her go.

He raises the drink and rolls it across his slapped cheek.

The ice cubes clink.

An small old marble orchard set on a hilltop cleared

against the woods.  Stars of David adorn the headstones; in

the foreground Bernie's funeral is ending.  Present is a

rabbi, just finishing the chanting of the liturgy, Verna,

and Leo.

In the background, on the road at the foot of the hill, Tom

is emerging from a taxi.  It rolls away as he starts up the

hill.

Just as he arrives, Leo and Verna turn to leave.

Tom takes in the scene.

She stalks off, leaving Leo and Tom alone.  Leo takes off

his yarmulke and fiddles with it uncomfortably.  The two

men start walking.

Leo chuckles.

They walk on.

Leo looks up.

Verna is getting into the elegant black touring-car that

waits at the bottom of the hill.  It pulls away.

Leo looks at Tom.

They walk in silence for a beat.

Tom stiffens.  He brings out:

Leo too is uncomfortable.

Tom cuts himself off and walks in silence for a moment.

Leo wants to be encouraging.  He nods.

Leo is grinning again.

Leo greets this with a puzzled Smile.

He nods to himself.

They walk on.

Leo stops, grabs Tom's arm, and the words come cut in a

rush:

Tom instantly bristles.  For the first time, his tone is

sharp:

The two men stare at each other--Tom's look angry; Leo's,

distraught.

Tom's look softens.

Leo still stares at him, waiting for something else.

When nothing is forthcoming he turns and walks away.

Tom watches him go.  He unpockets a flask and raises it to

his lips.

Behind him a tree soughs in the wind.

FADE OUT

