EXT. HIGHWAY. AFTERNOON.

A ribbon of freeway stretching into a blue and pink late

afternoon sky. A huge dark sedan, windows tinted gold,

headlights blazing, powers directly for us.

CUT TO: A heavy, low-slung, pickup truck traveling toward

the sedan.

WIDE SHOT: Sky, freeway, the cars closing.

TIGHT ON: The sedan.

TIGHT ON: The pickup.

Like thunderous, jousting opponents, the cars pass in a

deafening cacophony of noise.

INT. TRUCK. AFTERNOON.

TIGHT ON: The fat face of GREGORY, yelling at the

disappearing sedan.

He and the pimply-faced front-seat passenger, SAMPSON,

explode with laughter.

The red-haired driver BENVOLIO, keeps his eyes on the road.

EXT. EXIT RAMP. AFTERNOON.

The truck spirals down an exit ramp and screeches into busy

driveway of a large gas station.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

Attendants immediately run to the truck. Two clean

windshields and duco, the third fills the gas tank.

INT. TRUCK. AFTERNOON.

Gregory in the back seat is boasting outrageously.

Sampson, sarcastically.

Benvolio, disgusted, gets out of the car.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

FOLLOW: Benvolio as he heads for the bathroom.

PICK UP: A mother wrangling three little boys out of a

station wagon - the smallest kid carries a toy pistol.

SUPER FAST SCAN TRACK: Past the mother to - the huge black

sedan pulling up outside the gas station mini-mart.

The front door of the sedan opens. Shiny black boots -

decorated with tiny, silver, cat-shaped spurs - plant

themselves on the ground. The boots are joined by two other

pairs of well-shod feet.

HOLD: The spurred boots move out of frame.

CRANE UP: The other feet belong to a tough-looking Latin

youth ABRA - and his goateed side-kick PETRUCHIO.

Abra and Petruchio enter the mini-mart, as four white-clad

girls exit.

FOLLOW: The girls as they head for their car.

SUPER FAST SCAN TRACK: Past the girls to:

INT. TRUCK. AFTERNOON.

Sampson is trying to out boast Gregory.

Gregory; mock outrage.

Sampson leers lecherously at the girls.

Gregory and Sampson pump up the song on the sound system and

sing out at the girls.

The girls, pretending not to notice, get into the car.

EXT. GAS STATION - MINIMART. AFTERNOON.

GREGORY'S P.O.V.: The car pulls away revealing... Abra and

Petruchio exiting the mini-mart.

INT. TRUCK. AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: Gregory.

CLOSE ON: Sampson - Their singing abruptly halts.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

Abra and Petruchio stare coldly toward the boys.

INT. TRUCK. AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: Sampson swallowing hard.

CLOSE ON: Gregory; eyes locked to the Capulets. With fake

bravado he nudges Sampson.

CLOSE ON: Sampson trying to quell his rising panic.

SUDDENLY: BANG! Gregory and Sampson jump.

WHIP PAN: It was the garage attendant slamming the hood.

Gregory and Sampson are mortally embarrassed.

EXT. MINI-MART. AFTERNOON.

Abra and Petruchio laugh contemptuously and move to their

CAR:

FOLLOW: The mother and kids exiting the mini-mart.

SUPER FAST SCAN TRACK: To...

INT. TRUCK. AFTERNOON.

Sampson furiously tries to save face.

Sampson quickly bites his thumb toward Abra's back as he

gets into the sedan.

INT. SEDAN. AFTERNOON.

Abra's eyes flick to the rear view mirror.

E.C.U.: The rear view mirror; Sampson biting his thumb.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

Suddenly, a blood curdling screech of tires - the sedan,

rubber burning, reverses full speed toward Sampson and

Gregory.

The mother in the station wagon brakes to avoid collision -

a sports car shunts into her vehicle. Mother and children

scream.

Attendants scatter.

The Capulet car shudders to a halt inches from the truck,

blocking its path.

INT. BLACK SEDAN. AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: A scurry of limbs scrabbling across seats and

reaching for door handles;

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

Abra hauls Sampson from the truck. Gregory leaps out,

Petruchio covers him. Abra slams Sampson against the side of

the vehicle - then, goading him to go for his gun, screams:

Sampson's shaking hand hovers - ready to draw.

INT. STATION WAGON. AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: The panicked mother in the station wagon. She

motions her children to the floor.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

Customers run for cover.

CLOSE ON: Abra: An hysterical rage; he shrieks:

INT. BATHROOM. AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: The black cowboy boots, trousers down around them.

The sound of a toilet flushing.

PAN TO: The next cubicle, the door opens revealing Benvolio.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: Sampson, still sweating.

CUT TO: Gregory; a ridiculous inquiry.

CUT TO: Abra; a dangerous smile.

CLOSE ON: Sampson; unconvincing bravado...

CLOSE ON: Abra; a lethal question.

CLOSE ON: Sampson, trapped.

INT. STATION WAGON. AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: Inside the station wagon. The mother does not

notice her five year old aiming a toy gun toward the boys.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: Gregory's P.O.V.: Benvolio emerging from the

bathroom - he whispers maniacally.

EXTREME CLOSE UP: Sampson; he screams:

EXTREME CLOSE UP: Abra demonically roars:

CUT TO: Benvolio. Terror stricken, he sees the boys.

DISTORTED OUT OF CONTROL CLOSE UP: Abra shrieks:

LIGHTNING CUT: Four hands reaching for guns.

SLAM ZOOM: To Benvolio - weapon outstretched he screams:

MUSIC STING; A SUPER MARCO SLAM ZOOM along the barrel of

Benvolio's gun; the engraved gun type reads:

'Sword 9mm series S'

CUT TO: Benvolio. He screams in desperation:

Gregory, Sampson, Abra, and Petruchio freeze. A moment -

then from behind, the unmistakable sound of a gun being

cocked.

EXTREME CLOSE UP: The black cowboy boots.

CRANE UP: To find the dark cold eyes and feline smile, of

the wearer of the boots. His name is TYBALT; a cigarette is

clenched between his teeth and his gun is aimed at Benvolio's

head.

Benvolio, a choked explanation:

A mocking smile.

EXTREME CLOSE UP: Tybalt's finger squeezing the trigger...

Suddenly we hear firing from Tybalt's blind side.

Tybalt redirects his weapon, cracking off a single shot at

the surprise attacker.

EXT./INT. MINIMART. AFTERNOON.

It is the five year old from the station wagon. The bullet

smacks the toy gun from the child's hand, shattering the

wagon's window.

Mother and children scream.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

A panicked Benvolio falls back, accidentally his gun fires -

the bullet whistles past Tybalt's head.

Tybalt combat rolls, and using a screaming car load of girls

as cover, returns two quick shots, narrowly missing Benvolio.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

The gas station attendant hits a button and heavy metal

screens slam down.

EXT. GAS STATION. AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: Gregory firing - a bullet rips through Abra's arm.

Petruchio dives for cover; Gregory and Sampson leap into

Benvolio's truck. Rubber burns as they smash past the

Capulet vehicle.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt taking aim.

EXT. HIGHWAY - SUPERMARKET. AFTERNOON.

His first shot plugs the fuel tank, the second a tire. Out

of control and spewing gasoline the Montague truck careens

across the highway and through the glass front of a

supermarket.

Gregory and Sampson throw themselves from the truck moments

before...

EXT. SUPERMARKET. AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: The gas tank erupts into an almighty fireball.

The screen fills with flame: the following images combust in

front of us:

EXT. HIGHWAY - SUPERMARKET - FROM AIR. AFTERNOON.

NEWS CHOPPER P.O.V.: Citizens run in the streets.

Looters raid shops near the supermarket - security guards

return fire.

INT. RESTAURANT. NIGHT.

A table of dark suited men and their wives.

CLOSE ON: The powerful 60 year old face of FULGENCIO CAPULET.

Seated next to him is his much younger wife GLORIA.

SUDDENLY: Windows explode in a tidal wave of glass. Diners

take cover.

Capulet moves fearlessly toward the window.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: The word MONTAGUE fills the screen.

PULL BACK: We see the word is the number plate of a large

black limousine.

The limousine is stuck in the traffic snarl - bullets bounce

off its bullet proof windshield.

INT. MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE. NIGHT.

TED MONTAGUE, a 60 year old red-faced bulldog of a man,

bursts from the back of the limousine.

As Ted draws an enormous pearl handed revolver, CAROLINE,

his conservatively dressed wife, tries to restrain him.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT.

Crouched behind a truck, Benvolio shakily tries to re-load.

CLOSE ON: The barrel of Tybalt's gun enters frame and

presses into Benvolio's forehead. Tybalt whispers sweetly.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt's finger on the trigger. Benvolio screams

a scream of mortal horror.

SUDDENLY Tybalt is blinded by a burning shaft of light. A

magnificently powerful helicopter gunship hovers above him.

A command booms from the chopper's public address system.

INT. CHOPPER. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: The steely gray eyes of CAPTAIN PRINCE, chief of

the Verona Beach Police Department. He lifts the microphone

and repeats the command.

EXT. VERONA BEACH. NIGHT.

Tybalt looks up to the chopper. Patrol cars screech to a

halt.

An almighty orchestral chord.

EXT. VERONA BEACH - MATTE SHOT. NIGHT.

SUPER WIDE SHOT: A trail of devastation winds up through

grid-locked traffic to the burning supermarket.

In the distance looms an enormous statue of Christ flanked

by two glass towers. We push toward the towers. One is

neon-crowned MONTAGUE, the other, CAPULET.

We hear:

A dark chord.

EXT. VERONA BEACH SKYLINE. NIGHT.

A swarm of helicopters thunder into frame. We see

compressed, time-lapsed, images of their journey.

SLAM INTO: A coat of arms that labels a large tower - the

emblem reads; "Verona Beach Police Department: In God We

Trust".

HOLD:

INT. CAPTAIN PRINCE'S PRECINCT OFFICE. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Captain Prince's grim features. He eyes Capulet

and Montague.

Capulet's lawyer tries to intervene.

Captain Prince overriding, slams the desk.

Hold on Captain Prince's determined gaze.

EXT. VERONA STREET. DAWN.

A majestic sunrise; Ted Montague's limousine sulks through

deserted streets. In the distance, Jesus looks out over the

now peaceful city.

INT. MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE. DAWN.

Ted Montague, his wife Caroline, and nephew Benvolio ride in

uncomfortable silence.

Caroline finally speaks her anger.

Montague snorts derisively and stares out the window.

Embarrassed, Benvolio tries to be of assistance.

Ted Montague speaks with contempt.

Caroline struggles to contain her emotion.

Montague barks into the car intercom.

EXT. STREET. DAWN.

The limousine U-turns heading west.

EXT. BEACH. DAWN.

To the melancholic strains of Mozart's "Serenade for Winds",

we see a blond nineteen year old boy sitting alone on an

empty beach.

CLOSE ON: The boy, ROMEO. Looking out over the ocean he

sucks on the last of a cigarette and then writes intensely

in a small worn note book.

We hear his voice over.

INT. MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE. DAWN.

The limo is parked in a cross street that runs down to the

beach.

Opposite the limo, young diehard clubbers, faded drag queens

and street people, hang outside a dilapidated nightclub. A

broken neon sign reads: "The Grove of Sick Amore."

Ted, Caroline and Benvolio sit watching the silhouette of

Romeo on the beach.

EXT. BEACH. DAWN.

P.O.V.: From the limousine. Romeo rises and listlessly

makes his way up the beach - seeing his father's car he

turns and heads for the path that hugs the beach front.

INT. MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE. DAWN.

Benvolio clambers out of the limo.

CLOSE ON: Montague, an encouraging smile.

EXT. STREET. DAWN.

The limousine pulls away and Benvolio heads after Romeo. He

pauses. A deck at the rear of "Sick Amore" sprawls onto the

beach. At the base of the deck, Benvolio can see Romeo

squatting in discussion with an old drunk. Benvolio

approaches with a not very convincing casualness.

Romeo turns. Sore, red, unfriendly eyes squint back at

Benvolio.

Romeo rises, Benvolio follows.

Romeo stops as if taking in Benvolio for the first time.

Benvolio chases Romeo down the path which divides the beach

from a string of cheap souvenir shops and sleazy bars.

Romeo is halted by the sight of last night's disturbance

displayed on a small TV screen in an outdoor bar.

Benvolio starts to reply.

Romeo turns the corner away from the beach. He strides

along the sidewalk raging.

Romeo screams at a huge bouncer who lounges in the doorway

of a sex club.

The bouncer's hand moves to his gun. Romeo, ignoring him,

turns on Benvolio. A mocking laughter through tears:

Benvolio, nervously eyeing the bouncer, shepherds Romeo out

of danger.

Romeo smiles.

Romeo, breaking into a jog, leaves Benvolio behind. Benvolio

pursues him down the street.

EXT. ROMEO'S CAR. DAY.

CLOSE ON: The sleeping face of a fourteen year old boy -

BALTHASAR.

PULL BACK: Balthasar sleeps on the hood of a magnificent

silver car.

Three or four kids doze on the sidewalk. As Romeo

approaches, they jump up and begin vigorously polishing the

already gleaming car.

Balthasar wakes. He springs off the hood, chases the kids

away, then, producing a huge bunch of keys, opens the car

door for Romeo.

Benvolio intercepts Romeo at the car.

Romeo leans against the car.

Romeo pulls his shirt down to reveal a small shoulder tattoo.

CLOSE ON: The tattooed word; ROSALINE.

Benvolio can't believe it.

Benvolio - a plan.

Benvolio indicates one of the working girls already strutting

the foot path.

Romeo laughs dismissively. He throws the kids a few coins

and slides into the drivers seat. Balthasar jumps in back.

Benvolio leaps into the passenger seat of the moving vehicle.

INT. CAPULET OFFICE. DAY.

An orchestral fanfare. TRACK DOWN: Past monstrous letters

that read CAPULET and in through a window to discover

Fulgencio Capulet. He stares out the window toward the

other tallest building in Verona; the one crested with the

word MONTAGUE.

Capulet turns: on the other side of his desk sits DAVID

PARIS; a square-jawed young man in a red cashmere sweater.

Tea has been served from an exquisite silver tea service.

Dave smiles obligingly.

An awkward pause: Dave sips tea, then, with a deep breath...

Capulet considers the framed photograph on his desk.

Dave is politely insistent.

Capulet rounds the desk and places a fatherly hand on Dave's

shoulder.

Capulet leans close.

Capulet smiles knowingly. Dave seems encouraged.

Capulet excitedly ushers Dave from the office.

INT. POOL HALL. DAY.

Dim, smoke filled. Benvolio and Romeo play pool.

He lines up the six ball top pocket.

A hopeless shot that slams the eight ball toward the side

pocket. Romeo stops it with his hand and hurls it against

the other balls.

Romeo sinks the other balls with his hands.

Romeo stalks away from the table.

He stops at the gun check, rummaging in his pocket.

A crusty old man looks up from the small television. His

entire face a tattooed shooting target, the bullseye between

his eyes.

The old man points to the sign that reads: "No ticket no

gun." Romeo finally produces a ticket. Crusty the Target

goes out back. Romeo's attention is caught by the television.

INT. T.V. STUDIO SET. DAY

CUT TO: TELEVISION.

An ostentatious woman and her over groomed partner Rich,

hosts what looks to be a kind of Entertainment Tonight show.

The graphic behind them reads "Solemnity Nights" with Susan

Santandiago and Rich Ranchidis.

Susan speaks conspiratorially to camera.

Rich chimes in:

A list of names begins to scroll across the screen. Rich

reads them off.

INT. POOL HALL. DAY.

CUT TO: Benvolio, he leans into Romeo.

Crusty returns. He hands the boys their guns.

CUT TO: TELEVISION.

CUT TO: Romeo, he considers.

The boys move off.

PUSH IN ON: THE TELEVISION.

EXT. CAPULET STATE. DAY.

An aerial shot of a magnificent island estate. An Italianate

wonder of Florentine architecture. Armed guards patrol the

grounds. The telecaption reads "Capulet Mansion."

The file tape loses its television quality. We sweep down

through manicured gardens, where workers prepare decorations

for tonight's celebrations, and into the house. The music

darkens and we hear the desperate calling of a girl's name.

INT. CAPULET MANSION - CORRIDOR. DAY.

CUT TO: A long deserted corridor.

INT. CAPULET MANSION - DRAWING ROOM. DAY.

CUT TO: An echoey Chinoiserie style drawing room.

INT. BATHROOM. DAY.

CLOSE ON: The still, serene, submerged features of a

beautiful young girl. Dark floating hair gently frames the

face. Heavy liquid eyes stare up through the water.

We hear, though faintly, the calling:

With a rush JULIET surfaces. As she gulps air, we realise

that she is in fact, in a bath.

We hear the calling loudly again.

Juliet listens. For a moment she is very still, then she

closes her eyes and slides back beneath the surface of the

water.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL CAPULET MANSION. DAY.

A Gothic, unfriendly environment heavy with religious

iconography. The entrance hall is crowded with workers and

servants preparing for tonight's party.

Gloria Capulet fiddles with a short black wig in the hallway

mirror. She is attired in full Cleopatra costume.

Dissatisfied with the wig, she rips it from her head and

calls maniacally.

Gloria is met by the NURSE, a fat, grandmotherly Hispanic

woman.

CUT TO: The top of the stairs. As if from nowhere, Juliet

has appeared. She wears a bathrobe and her hair is wet.

Gloria, startled, sweeps up the stairs and shuffles her

daughter toward a doorway.

INT. GLORIA'S DRESSING ROOM. DAY.

Gloria shepherds Juliet into her opulent dressing room and

closes the door. She circles with nervous vexation searching

for words, stops, then suddenly opens the door and yells out

to the Nurse.

The Nurse enters. Gloria, still refusing eye contact,

checks her appearance once more in the mirror. She takes a

hairbrush and, feigning pleasantness, intensely brushes her

hair.

The hair brush clatters onto the dresser. A moment of tense

silence. Gloria grips herself and pours a sherry.

Back still turned, she speaks to her daughter.

A nembutal twists like a pin in the corner of Gloria's mouth.

She slugs it down with the sherry and turns abruptly to face

Juliet.

CUT TO: Juliet; an uncomprehending stare.

The Nurse, caught off guard, tries to buoy the situation.

The medication takes immediate effect upon Gloria. She

joins Juliet on the couch and coos in Paris's favour.

Gloria probes Juliet's thoughts.

Juliet, adept at negotiating her mother's strange moods,

chooses her words precisely.

PETER the chauffeur enters.

She exits, Nurse in tow.

CLOSE ON: Juliet stares out the windows and across the water.

Suddenly the Nurse's face leers into shot. She whispers

enthusiastically into Juliet's ear.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's face.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION. DAY/NIGHT.

JUMP CUT: Aerial shot of Capulet Mansion. We time lapse

from late afternoon to night; fairy lights illuminate,

guests appear, music swells, and a single incandescent

flare, explodes pink against the inky sky.

EXT. BEACH. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Romeo: his face glows pink. He is sitting on the

grubby shoreline of Verona Bay dressed as a boy King Arthur,

with fake chain mail and sword.

Romeo watches the dying flare sink into the bay. The sound

of the party drifts across the water. Balthasar, dressed as

Frankenstein's monster, touches a lighter to a large bong

and Romeo inhales smoke.

Behind them, Benvolio, drunk and dressed as a pizza, is

yelling at Gregory, who, dressed as a Viking, is trying to

cut slices off his pizza costume. Sampson, also dressed as

a Viking, sits in the back of a car. One arm is bandaged

and he swigs from a bottle.

Suddenly the darkness is slashed by headlights. A reckless

sports car speeds toward the boys. Stereo screaming, the

car skids to a halt.

CLOSE ON: Music blares from the sound system. A silver

stilettoed foot emerges from the car and plants itself

firmly in the dirt.

CUT TO: The boys, eyes wide with amazement.

CUT TO: Another stiletto follows the first. Guitar groans.

PAN: Slowly up a shapely pair of black stockinged legs, past

a hint of garter belt to a black sequined mini-skirt and up

over a muscular dark skinned stomach and tiny sequined bra

top, to discover: the 21 year old male, African American

face of MERCUTIO.

CUT TO: The boys. Recovering from the initial shock, they

laugh and cat-call raucously.

CUT TO: Mercutio. He roughly jams a short black wig onto

his head and yells above the music.

Mercutio magically produces invitations from somewhere

within his mini-skirt and dances down the beach to the boys.

Aggressively bumping and grinding, Mercutio distributes the

invitations. Reaching Romeo, he declares:

Romeo lets the invitation fall to the sand.

Romeo pulls on the bong once more.

Suddenly, Mercutio is upon Romeo. Hauling him to his feet,

he waltzes him through the sand.

Romeo pushes Mercutio away.

Mercutio in mock sympathy.

Romeo lies staring up at the stars.

Mercutio jumps on Romeo.

Romeo fights Mercutio off.

CUT TO: Benvolio, impatiently honking the horn.

Mercutio heads Romeo toward the car.

Romeo pulls away.

Mercutio turns, exasperated.

Mercutio produces a tiny gold pill case.

Tantalisingly, he passes the case beneath Romeo's nose.

With a conjurer's dexterity Mercutio extracts a small, gray

pill.

He palms the pills. It reappears from behind Romeo's ear.

The pill box glints in the moonlight.

Mercutio now intensely angry:

He screams into the night.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio. He breaks off. There is a strange

stillness amongst the group. Romeo goes to his friend.

Mercutio meets Romeo's gaze.

CUT TO: Benvolio in the car. The alcohol has caught up with

him and he looks a little queasy.

Romeo looks toward the distant city.

PAUSE: The water turns golden as fireworks explode across

the bay. Romeo smiles.

He takes the pill and drops it into his mouth.

With the rush of a mind altering cocktail, we ZOOM IN on

Romeo's eyes; they shimmer with the shooting star reflection

of exploding fireworks - a bending Eastern chord, we launch

into Donna Summer's 'I Feel Love', sung by the vocalist from

Soundgarden with orchestration by 'Deconstruction' and sitar

by Ravi Shankar.

EXT. MERCUTIO'S CAR - ON FREEWAY. NIGHT.

PULL OUT: From Romeo's eyes. He is lying in the passenger

seat of Mercutio's convertible as it rockets along the

freeway. The camera is directly above Romeo. He stares up

at the fireworks that reflect in the windshield. The car

and freeway begin to rotate and the camera follows. We feel

that the car is now travelling upside-down. The camera

sways through a brilliant explosion of fireworks that fill

the screen with a zillion pixilating, colored dots of fire.

INT. CAPULET'S MANSION - BALLROOM. NIGHT.

PULL OUT: To discover the glittering dots of fire refracting

from the sparkling domed roof of the magnificently ornate

Capulet Ballroom. The camera swoops down over bizarrely

costumed revellers cavorting to a driving Latin big band.

The camera partners with a drugged Mercutio and Benvolio who

shamelessly caper with each other in a mock antic adagio.

CUT TO: Romeo gazing blankly at the dance floor.

CUT TO: Mercutio. He sweeps up a thirty-something

sophisticate and twirls her in Romeo's direction.

Romeo moves off through the crowd.

CUT TO: ROMEO'S P.O.V.: Contorted images of costumed guests

eat, drink and laugh in a grotesque collision of Yves Saint

Laurent cocktail party and Bacchanalian romp.

Suddenly a large arm coils around Romeo's neck.

DISTORTED EXTREME CLOSE UP: A seriously intoxicated Fulgencio

Capulet; his puffy red face squeezes against Romeo's.

Capulet screams above the music:

Blood drums in Romeo's ears. Breaking free from Capulet's

grasp as he pushes through the crowd toward the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM. NIGHT.

Silent, underwater shot. Romeo's tranquil features submerged

in a basin of water.

BEAT.

With a gasp, Romeo rises. A moment. His breathing calms.

Then, smoothing water into his hair, he gazes into the

bathroom mirror. He turns:

The entire wall opposite the mirror, is a magnificent salt-

water fish tank.

Romeo, drawn by it's submarine beauty, leans against the

fish tank. Applause echoes faintly through the bathroom

speakers.

INT. BALLROOM. NIGHT.

As the applause dies, a dark-haired Latina Diva takes the

spotlight. The band ease into the opening bars of a love

ballad.

INT. BATHROOM. NIGHT.

As the music swells, Romeo watches a moustached catfish

glide past a medieval castle.

Suddenly, Romeo pulls away. Peering back at him through the

castle is a pair of exquisitely beautiful angelic eyes.

The Diva's first pure, achingly beautiful notes soar.

Confused, Romeo looks again. There is no mistake - it is a

girl. Through a shimmering curtain of ribbon weed, two dark

wide eyes, a childish nose and sumptuous full lips.

Romeo pushes his face closer to the glass. The other face

snaps abruptly away.

INT. POWDER ROOM. NIGHT.

CUT TO: Juliet, dressed as an angel, on the other side of

the tank. We now realise that the girls' powder room and

the boys' bathroom are divided by this watery wonder world.

Juliet warily moves closer to the glass.

INT. BATHROOM. NIGHT.

Romeo leans his face against the glass. The love ballad

builds.

SLOW TRACK: From Romeo's profile, in through the water, and...

INT. POWDER ROOM. NIGHT.

...out the other side, to find Juliet in profile, peering

into the tank.

INT. BATHROOM. NIGHT.

Romeo presses his nose lightly against the glass.

INT. POWDER ROOM. NIGHT.

Juliet; a tiny smile.

Suddenly, CRASH! The door slams open. Juliet turns,

startled. It is the Nurse.

The Nurse bustles Juliet out the door. Juliet looks over

her shoulder at the mystery boy.

INT. BALLROOM. NIGHT.

Romeo, now without his mask, slams out of the bathroom -

Juliet and the Nurse have disappeared into the crowd.

CUT TO: Juliet being dragged along by the Nurse. She

glances back toward the mystery boy, but he is gone.

Juliet and the Nurse rejoin Dave Paris, who is dressed as an

astronaut, and Gloria, at the side of the dance floor.

Dave, irresistible smile, extends his hand to Juliet.

Juliet looks to Dave, desperately searching for a reason to

decline. Gloria, brushing aside her silly daughter's

protests, slugs the last of her champagne and corrals them

onto the dance floor.

As Juliet is dragged onto the floor her eyes furtively

search for the boy.

CUT TO: Romeo in the crowd. Desperate to find the girl, he

roughly shunts aside a reveller dressed as Lucifer, Prince

of Darkness.

HOLD ON: Lucifer. He removes his mask: it is Tybalt. He

turns to Abra, who's dressed as a demon.

Tybalt moves off aggressively, but is halted as Capulet

slams a hand into his chest.

Capulet peers across the ballroom.

Tybalt can't believe it.

CLOSE ON: Capulet, exploding with rage.

Capulet violently shoves Tybalt to the ground.

A middle aged couple look on shocked - Capulet waves to them

FESTIVELY:

Capulet snorts at Tybalt in disgust.

Smoothing his hair into place, Capulet turns back into the

ballroom.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt choking back tears of rage.

CUT TO: Romeo moving through the crowd. For a moment the

crush clears and he spies the Angel on the dance floor.

CLOSE ON: Romeo whispers:

Romeo begins to circumnavigate the dance floor in an attempt

to get closer to Juliet.

CUT TO: Dave slow dancing with Juliet.

Juliet's eyes search the room for the boy.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.

CLOSE ON: Juliet.

Their eyes connect.

Juliet looks quickly back to Dave who, oblivious, returns

his most devastating smile.

CUT TO: The songstress, her voice soars.

CUT TO: Juliet. Unable to look away from the boy, she

stares over Dave's shoulder.

CUT TO: Romeo. Ignoring the danger, he continues to move

toward the Angel.

With the Diva's spiralling final notes, the ballad concludes.

A complete black out. As the crowd break into wild applause,

Juliet's eyes search the darkness, but the boy is gone.

The crowd cheers and screams its applause. An avalanche of

balloons, tinsel and confetti rains down from the roof;

swathes of red silk drop from the ceiling and the space is

transformed.

CLOSE ON: Juliet, searching for the boy.

Suddenly: A gasp, Juliet's eyes widen, shocked.

In the dark, a hand has shot out from the drape curtaining

off the stage and clasped hers. Juliet barely dares breathe.

She glances furtively to Dave Paris - he watches the stage.

Slowly Juliet turns toward the hand; there through a break

in the curtain she can see eye, cheek and lips of the

mystery boy. As the Diva reprises the chorus, Romeo gently

pulls Juliet behind the curtain.

INT. BEHIND CURTAIN. NIGHT.

Concealed from the party by the red velvet drape, hands

still clasped, the teenagers are so close their bodies

almost touch.

Romeo moves his lips toward Juliet's. She stops him.

He kisses her.

He kisses her.

They kiss again.

Suddenly a harsh light falls across the entwined couple.

They break apart - Nurse has pulled open the curtain and

stands eyeing them severely.

We see that the party is breaking up. But for groups of

die-hard revellers, the room is nearly empty.

She takes firm control of her charge.

Juliet furtively motions for the startled Romeo not to

follow as he trails them across the room.

CUT TO: ROMEO'S P.O.V.: The Nurse and Juliet reach the door,

but instead of leaving, they turn and ascend the staircase

that arcs around to the mezzanine level. They join a vexed

Gloria Capulet who clings to a patient Dave Paris.

Inaudible words are exchanged. Juliet flickers her eyes

nervously to Romeo.

CUT TO: Romeo. He halts at the foot of the stairs unsure.

CUT TO: Gloria. Catching Juliet's interest in the boy, she

indicates to her daughter to 'COME ALONG'.

CUT TO: Romeo; a dawning realisation.

CUT TO: Juliet. She stops and turns back.

CUT TO: Romeo, comprehending the reality of who she is.

CUT TO: Juliet. The Nurse whispers in her ear.

An orchestral treatment of Joy Division's "Love will tear us

Apart" swells;

HOLD ON: Juliet. Like a cloud passing across the sun, a

dark coldness descends upon her.

CUT TO: Mercutio. He throws himself upon the shell shocked

Romeo.

Mercutio shuttles Romeo toward the door.

A covert glance over his shoulder.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION. NIGHT.

Mercutio bundles Romeo through the front door and down the

stairs to the waiting getaway car.

INT. CAPULET MANSION - STAIRS ALCOVE WINDOW - NIGHT.

CUT TO: Juliet. Manoeuvred by the Nurse up the stairs, she

breaks away and rushes to a tiny, windowed alcove.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION - MAIN ENTRANCE. NIGHT.

CUT TO: Mercutio's convertible and its noisy confederacy

joining the line of departing limos.

A huge sign combusts into blinding fireworks that write in

giant words "CAPULET."

As the convertible passes beneath the blazing words, Romeo

turns. Through a deluge of falling sparks, he glimpses the

mystery girl high up in the tower.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION - WINDOW. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Juliet leaning out of the tower window. Brilliant

sparkles light in her eyes.

PUSH IN: We hear her secret whisper:

EXT. CAPULET MANSION - MAIN ENTRANCE DRIVE. NIGHT.

CUT TO: JULIET'S P.O.V.: In slow motion Romeo, through the

falling curtain of fiery embers.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION - WINDOW. NIGHT.

Warm wind blows the smoke from the expended fireworks.

Juliet closes the window and leans against the glass.

CRANE DOWN: The side of the building past revellers who

don't know when to leave. Standing in the front doorway is

someone else who cannot take their eyes off the departing

Romeo. It is Tybalt. The music darkens as we push through

the smoky wind.

INT. MERCUTIO'S CAR. NIGHT.

Caught in the jam of departing vehicles, Mercutio's car

crawls along the bridge that links Capulet island with the

mainland. The boys sing along raucously with the radio.

PUSH IN: On Romeo, he whispers:

Romeo leaps from the car. Benvolio yells after him.

EXT. CAPULET BRIDGE. NIGHT.

Romeo runs back along the bridge toward the estate. At the

gates, armed guards supervise the exodus of vehicles. Romeo

uses the traffic to shield himself from view.

Romeo leaps from the bridge and into the shadows at the base

of the high stone wall that borders the compound.

EXT. CAPULET BRIDGE. NIGHT.

Mercutio's car prowls back along the bridge. The last

guests have departed and the gates are swinging shut. The

convertible halts in front of them.

Mercutio leaps from the car. He postures like a magician in

a low-budget variety special. The boys cheer him on.

EXT. CAPULET WALL. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Romeo's fake chain mail shirt tangled in the

barbed wire at the top of the wall.

PAN DOWN: Romeo, now on the other side of the wall, pulls up

his undershirt and gingerly inspects the cuts inflicted by

the wire.

Mercutio's cavorting echoes from the bridge. Romeo smiles

ironically.

Romeo moves off through the darkened grounds of Capulet

estate.

EXT. CAPULET BRIDGE. NIGHT.

The boys laugh hysterically as Mercutio staggers around the

bridge in imitation of a love sick fool.

The hilarity is abruptly arrested as a security spotlight

blazes to life, pinning Mercutio in its beam. The sound of

automatic weapons cocking pierces the night.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio. He's brave but not stupid. He gets

back into the car.

EXT. THE BACK OF CAPULET MANSION. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A pair of stone cherubs on top of the retaining

wall of a terraced garden. Romeo's face appears between them.

Romeo hauls himself up onto the wall. Below is a Greco-

Roman style pool area. To the right the darkened rear wing

of Capulet Mansion. Suddenly the back of the house explodes

with light. Romeo takes cover.

Romeo's question is answered as out onto the verandah comes

Juliet. She is still clad in her angel robe, but without

the halo and wings. She slowly descends to pool level.

Juliet stands on the top step of the pool stairs. She is

directly below Romeo as he whispers.

Juliet sits on the edge of the pool, her legs dangle in the

water.

Juliet sighs.

Juliet looks longingly toward the stars.

CLOSE ON: Romeo. Incredulous.

Romeo wildly calls:

Romeo jumps down from the wall. Juliet screams, and turns,

toppling backwards. Romeo grabs her hand but her momentum

overbalances him and they both plunge headlong into the pool.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION - POOL - UNDERWATER. NIGHT.

Underwater shot: A slow motion phosphorescent tangle of

arms, legs and bodies.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION - BACK GARDEN. NIGHT.

CUT TO: A security guard. Alerted by the noise he moves

toward the pool area.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION - POOL GARDEN - NIGHT.

CUT TO: Above water, real time: Romeo and Juliet surface

spluttering. Juliet thrashes the water in an attempt to get

distance from her attacker.

Romeo: A calming gesture as he tries to tread water.

The ferocious barking of a guard dog arrests the teenagers

attention. A moment, then they slide beneath the water.

CUT TO: The security guard and dog appearing above the pool

area.

GUARD'S P.O.V.: The rippling surface of the water.

CUT TO - UNDERWATER SHOT: Romeo and Juliet submerged, hair

streaming, stare at each other like two beautiful fish.

CUT TO: The guard. He can see noisy caterers cleaning up

around the other side of the house. Frowning, he returns

the way he came.

CUT TO: Romeo and Juliet. Gasping for air, they cautiously

surface. A moment - then Juliet, a small smile.

Juliet looks nervously toward the house. She drags Romeo

toward a small grotto at the end of the pool.

Juliet drags Romeo firmly into the grotto.

Romeo slowly pulls Juliet toward him.

The lovers kiss long and deep. Then Juliet, suddenly

fearful, pushes Romeo away.

Romeo tries to speak, Juliet silences him.

She touches his cheek. Romeo moves his lips close.

Confused, Juliet breaks away.

She rushes up the stairs - Romeo follows desperately.

Juliet - a shocked look.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.

CLOSE ON: Juliet. She runs joyously to Romeo.

Kissing him passionately.

They kiss again. The Nurse calls from inside.

Juliet looks to the house.

Romeo holds Juliet's gaze.

Juliet breaks away.

With a final kiss, Juliet runs inside.

Juliet re-appears at the upper balcony.

Juliet unclasps a delicate silver necklace from around her

neck.

She lets the necklace fall from her hand. Romeo catches it

and she is gone.

INT. GREENHOUSE. DAWN.

Morning sunlight filters through the lush foliage of a

tropical rainforest.

PAN DOWN: As we hear:

We discover the intensely concentrating features of FATHER

LAURENCE. Fifties, wiry and wearing a priest's collar,

Laurence delicately makes an incision in the bulb of a small

purple flowered plant.

A pair of fresh faced ten year old boys look on in wonderment

as a vivid blue sap oozes from the incision.

PULL BACK: The Priest carefully gathers the sap into a

beaker. We discover that we are in a small tropical

greenhouse.

The boys follow the Father as he moves out of the greenhouse

and into an adjoining work area. The walls are lined with

bottles of herbs and dried plants and a television flickers

in the corner.

With the precision of a chemist, Father Laurence funnels the

sap into a small bottle and places it in the refrigerator.

From out of the refrigerator he produces a large jar of

candy. He eyes the boys sternly.

The boys take their candy and scram.

CUT TO: The muted television. A morning news program shows

footage of a murder scene cordoned off with police tape. A

distraught mother is being restrained.

CLOSE ON: The priest contemplating the television.

A feverish knocking breaks the priest's reverie.

Father Laurence snaps off the television and exits the

workroom.

EXT. WALL. DAWN.

Romeo, dressed in last night's chain mail, pounds desperately

on a wooden door set into a high stone wall.

EXT. COURTYARD. DAWN.

From the workroom, Father Laurence enters a courtyard which

encloses a tranquil tropical garden. He opens a door in the

wall of the courtyard and smiles as the costumed Romeo

bursts in.

Without pausing, the priest continues through the courtyard

and toward the church.

The priest enters the back of the church.

INT. SACRISTY. DAWN.

Romeo, on fire to tell of his experience, follows the priest

into the sacristy.

The Father lays out the cut glass bottles and communion tray

for mass.

Unconsciously, Romeo helps the priest prepare. It is clear

he knows the routine by heart.

CUT TO: The Priest, thunderstruck. The two kids, now

dressed in red altar-boy robes, enter.

The apoplectic priest waves the boys away. They get the

message and bolt.

The Father falls into a chair and considers. He looks

through the sacristy door to where a small children's choir

has assembled. Their angelic voices soar into the purest of

hymns.

We recognise the hymn as "When Doves Cry" by Prince.

PUSH IN: On the Priest; moved, he looks to Romeo.

Romeo hurriedly assists the priest with his vestments.

Father Laurence holds Romeo in his powerful gaze.

The procession is joined by the two little altar boys and

the mass begins.

EXT. VERONA BEACH. DAY.

As the Angelic voices of the choir soar, we see a pay phone

etched with hyper-real starkness against the white sand,

green sea and blue sky.

A single leaning palm tree frames the image like a ridiculous

tourist postcard.

Benvolio speaks on the pay phone. Mercutio, torso naked but

for his holstered Sports Rapier 9mm, drums his fingers on

the side of the booth.

Mercutio storms off down the beach.

CLOSE ON: Benvolio, unsure.

Mercutio clamps Benvolio into a headlock.

He whispers into Benvolio's ear:

Lightening fast, Mercutio draws his gun. He twirls it in an

impressive display of gunmanship which ends with the barrel

between the startled Benvolio's eyes.

Romeo's car pulls into the beach side parking lot. Benvolio

heads toward it.

EXT. BEACH - PARKING LOT. DAY.

Romeo alights from his car and throws his keys to Balthasar

who lounges outside the beach side hang. Mercutio saunters

up the beach with mock nonchalance.

Romeo smiles smugly.

The boys laugh. Romeo feigns anger.

Mercutio, goading Romeo to follow, backs off down the beach.

Mercutio flicks sand at Romeo, then sprints off down the

beach. Romeo, laughing, gives chase.

EXT. BEACH - SHORELINE. DAY.

Romeo is gaining on Mercutio, who runs headlong into the sea.

With a yell, Romeo dives in after him.

EXT. BEACH - AT SEA. DAY.

Mercutio splashes the laughing Romeo.

Romeo tries to dunk Mercutio.

Mercutio, evading, heads for shore.

EXT. BEACH - SHORELINE. DAY.

Romeo tackles Mercutio on the wet sand. Mercutio falls

suddenly serious.

A moment between the boys. A shadow falls across them.

Romeo looks up.

Standing above the boys is the Nurse. She wears a

ridiculous, all red, "Jackie O" style disguise of sunglasses,

scarf and parasol.

The nurse, ignoring Mercutio, speaks dramatically to Romeo.

She turns and walks back to the parking lot where Peter the

chauffer waits beside the limousine.

Benvolio and the other boys look on curiously.

But Romeo rises and to the amazement of Mercutio actually

follows this woman. Mercutio looks questioningly to

Benvolio, who shrugs.

Even more strangely, Romeo gets into the limousine.

The car pulls away.

EXT. STREET. DAY.

The limousine drives through Verona Beach.

INT. MOVING LIMOUSINE. DAY.

CLOSE ON: Romeo jammed into the corner of the seat. The

Nurse's face is pressed alarmingly close to his. She speaks

in cold deadly earnest.

BEAT: Romeo chooses his words carefully.

INT. JULIET'S BEDROOM. DAY.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's face peering out her bedroom window.

EXT. CAPULETS MANSION - DRIVEWAY. DAY.

PULL BACK: JULIET'S P.O.V.: The limousine pulls up at the

front door, the Nurse alights.

Juliet bolts from the room.

INT. LANDING. DAY.

Juliet hurries down the stairs - the Nurse, a way ahead,

disappears into a doorway.

INT. STAIRWAY. DAY.

Juliet races down a dark stairwell that leads to the bowels

of the house.

INT. KITCHEN. DAY.

The kitchen, obviously the Nurse's domain, is decorated with

a mixture of religious iconography and travel posters. Most

of the posters depict a strange city of decadent, decaying,

beauty.

Juliet bursts breathlessly into the room.

The Nurse, buried up to her ample hips inside the

refrigerator, does not turn around.

Juliet cries impatiently.

The nurse emerges from the ice box laden with food. Moving

to the counter she starts to make a sandwich.

Juliet under her breath.

Juliet goes to the nurse.

Sandwich made, the nurse shuffles over to a corner couch.

Juliet cannot stand the suspense any longer.

The Nurse takes a big bite from her sandwich and answers

through thoughtful chews.

Juliet is flabbergasted.

This is a game that Juliet knows well. She moves behind the

Nurse and begins massaging her back.

With sublime self control, Juliet coo's sweetly.

Juliet cracks.

The nurse sulks.

Juliet's frustration explodes.

PAUSE: The Nurse considers Juliet.

Juliet, with a scream of joy, hugs the Nurse to her.

HOLD ON: Juliet's ecstatic features.

INT. CHURCH. DAY.

TIGHT ON: FATHER LAURENCE:

PULL BACK: Father Laurence is preaching energetically from

the pulpit. Hidden from the congregation, Romeo waits in a

small alcove chapel at the side of the altar.

The Father glances toward Romeo.

Juliet pushes through the double doors at the far end of the

church.

Father Laurence motions to the middle-aged choir master who

leads the choir into a choral version of Led Zeppelin's "A

Whole Lot of Love" with Latin lyrics.

Father Laurence hurries from the altar over to Romeo.

Juliet bursts into the tiny chapel. Trying to observe a

vestige of decorum, she greets Father Laurence.

But before the priest can reply, the two lovers embrace,

kissing passionately.

The choir completes the hymn and the priest, realising it is

his cue, rushes back to the altar. He quickly delivers a

prayer to the congregation while eyeing the increasingly

amorous smooching of the young couple.

The choir launch into a joyous chorus and the priest returns

to Romeo and Juliet. He delicately parts the couple.

A young boy with a voice like Jamiroquai steps forward. He

launches into a wailing solo.

MACRO CLOSE UP: A simple silver ring. Engraved on the

inside of the band are the words 'I love thee.'

PULL BACK: Romeo slips the ring onto Juliet's finger as the

priest executes the formal sacrament of marriage.

INT./EXT. CHURCH. DAY.

CRANE UP: Through the majestic patterning of stained glass,

and out of the church to find Peter, the chauffeur, cradling

a small camera as he waits nervously beside the limo.

EXT. CHURCH. DAY.

The music swells in celebration. Romeo and Juliet, now

newly-wed, rush from the side door of the church. The

priest follows, throwing handfuls of rice. Peter studiously

takes a snap as the bride and groom kiss.

Peter holds the door of the limousine open. Reluctantly

Juliet gets into the car.

As the car pulls out of the driveway, Romeo runs alongside.

HOLD: On Romeo as he watches the big black car speed away.

EXT. UNDERWATER. DAY.

FISH-EYE VIEW: From the bottom of the ocean; Mercutio's

distorted features. Gun aimed, he stares intently into the

water.

A muffled BANG! and a bullet whizzes past the camera.

EXT. VERONA BEACH. DAY.

We see that Mercutio - wading in knee deep water close to

the beach - is hunting fish.

Benvolio shelters in the shade of an unmanned life guard

tower.

A shimmering heat haze blankets the deserted beach and the

horizon is stacked with purple storm clouds.

Mercutio, ignoring him, plugs away at another fish. Benvolio

nervously looks to see if there is any reaction to the sound

of the shot.

Mercutio strides out of the water.

Another incredible sleight of hand routine and Mercutio has

managed to draw Benvolio's pistol, retrieve his own gun, and

trap Benvolio with a barrel at each temple.

The joke has worn thin for Benvolio; he pushes past Mercutio

toward where Balthasar, Sampson and Gregory lounge in the

shade of the beach-side hang.

Suddenly he stops dead - a monstrous black sedan prowls into

the beach side parking lot.

EXT. BEACH - PARKING LOT. DAY.

The sedan mounts the curb and slides to a halt only metres

from Benvolio and Mercutio.

Tybalt, Abra and Petruchio alight from the sedan and walk

menacingly toward Mercutio and Benvolio.

The boys from the hang, drawn the Capulet car, converge -

eyes dart nervously, hands stray towards guns.

Mercutio smiles mockingly.

Leaning close to Tybalt, he camps the implication.

Mercutio scores. The boys laugh.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio. He stops, eyeing the hand on the gun.

No one moves.

The boys fall about again. Tybalt cracks.

The accusation stings - Mercutio's anger flares.

Indicating his holstered gun.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio. He will not back down. Benvolio tries

to diffuse things.

At that moment, Romeo's car pulls into the lot. Tybalt

smiles.

Tybalt moves toward Romeo who bounds from his car full of

happy news.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt. He clears his jacket from his side arm

and issues the challenge.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio.

CLOSE ON: Benvolio.

All eyes are on Romeo.

Romeo calmly approaches his now cousin.

Romeo turns, and to the amazement of all, walks back to his

car. Tybalt, unable to shoot him in the back, is confused.

He hurls himself into his sedan.

Kicking it into a sand spraying U-turn, he careens the short

distance to Romeo's car. Slamming into the back of it he

blocks Romeo in.

Tybalt leaps out, maniacally kicking at bumper, door and

headlights. Romeo flicks the locks down. Tybalt shatters

the side window and hauls Romeo through the door, slamming

him against the savaged fuselage.

He smashes Romeo across the face, Romeo crashes to the

roadway.

A cut has opened in the side of Romeo's mouth. He unsteadily

lifts himself up, and meeting Tybalt's gaze, speaks through

bloodied teeth.

Romeo cautiously extracts his gun...

...and throws it at Tybalt's feet.

Storm clouds obscure the sun as Romeo turns and walks from

the parking lot.

Mercutio, Benvolio and the others cannot believe their eyes.

EXT. BEACH - VACANT LOT. DAY.

Tybalt's anger must be answered. He ceremoniously disarms,

gives his weapon to Abra, and sprints after Romeo who is now

passing a beach side lot that houses an abandoned grand

hotel. A bone-cracking kick sends Romeo crumbling into the

vacant lot. The boys swarm toward the fray.

Romeo, still refusing the fight, scrambles up the stairs of

the deserted hotel. Tybalt trips him and Romeo careens into

an ornamental wooden railing, smashing it to pieces.

Tybalt kicks savagely at the helpless Romeo.

Suddenly, Mercutio appears running full tilt down the

concrete terrace. He plucks up one of the splintered wooden

palings and yells...

...as he bludgeons him across the face. Tybalt goes down.

Tybalt leaps to his feet grabbing a lump of wood.

He swipes at Mercutio.

Mercutio jabs, Tybalt sidesteps.

Tybalt aims a double-handed blow to Mercutio's head.

Mercutio blocks, hooking Tybalt's stick away.

Unarmed, Tybalt throws his full body weight upon Mercutio,

slamming him against a window that shatters in a storm of

glass.

Lightning fast, Mercutio jackknifes to his feet. He raises

his weapon to deliver a skull-crushing final blow to the

trapped Tybalt. Romeo rushes between them.

Seizing the opportunity, Tybalt lunges at Romeo with a

lethal triangle of broken glass. He misses, gouging instead

a slash of flesh from Mercutio's stomach.

A scream of excruciating pain as Mercutio grabs at his

bloodied side. Everyone is still. In the abrupt silence,

sirens are heard closing in the distance. Abra tugs at

Tybalt.

They bolt for their vehicle.

Benvolio goes to Mercutio.

But Mercutio, covering his wound with his hand, laughs.

He turns to his assembled fans at the bottom of the stairs.

With outrageous bravado he plays at being Caesar the

conqueror.

The boys cheer their conquering hero. Romeo helps Mercutio

down the stairs.

Mercutio holding his bleeding side, jokes through the pain.

He turns the next thought to the assembled audience.

Mercutio turns from the cheering boys to Romeo who is

struggling to support his weight.

Mercutio - through weak and desperate breathing.

Romeo starts to register the panic in Mercutio's eyes.

Like an animal trying to break free from a mortal trap,

Mercutio pushes Romeo away. He screams in horror, as if

falling in the dark:

Mercutio staggers down the stairs and collapses in the dirt.

Romeo is there instantly, cradling his friend's head out of

the dust. The dying boy stares back at Romeo, smiling

through the chilling cold.

Everything stands still, everything is quiet. The storm

finally breaks.

EXT. BEACH - RAIN. DAY.

Tiny drops of water fall from the sky and bespeckle

Mercutio's lifeless body. The droplets grow to a heavy rain.

Romeo can hear the faint sound a thousand miles away of

Benvolio whispering:

Tears streak Romeo's face. He cries out.

The sound of Tybalt's vehicle starting brings back cold

reality. Romeo's sorrow turns to uncontrollable rage.

Shrugging aside Benvolio's attempts to restrain him, Romeo

runs to his car.

EXT. BEACH - PARKING LOT. DAY.

Up ahead Tybalt's sedan screeches into a fishtailing U-turn

and powers away.

Romeo jumps into his vehicle. In an effort to head Tybalt

off, he guns his damaged machine down a one way street.

The rain is now blinding. Romeo stops for nothing;

pedestrians flee, cars spin out of control.

EXT. VERONA BEACH STREETS - FROM AIR. DAY.

AERIAL SHOT: The two cars speed along parallel roads toward

Plaza Jesu. Romeo is gaining.

EXT. VERONA STREET - CHRIST ROUNDABOUT. DAY.

CUT TO: Tybalt's car negotiating the immense roundabout at

the foot of the statue of Jesus.

EXT. CHRIST ROUNDABOUT. DAY.

CUT TO: Romeo's car firing out of the one way street and

slamming into Tybalt's car. Tybalt's car careens out of

control up the stairs of the statue, clips the fountain,

flips, and slides upside down onto the roadway.

CUT TO: Tybalt scrambling from his upturned vehicle.

CUT TO: Romeo running toward him.

SUDDENLY Romeo is halted by Tybalt's drawn gun. Fearlessly

marching toward it, he screams through tears.

Romeo grabs the barrel of the gun; forcing it between his

own eyes, he growls insanely at Tybalt.

Tybalt, unnerved, tries to back off.

Romeo, refusing to let go of the gun, forces Tybalt backward

through the torrential rain.

Cars swerve, Romeo is relentless. He grips Tybalt's hand

trying to force him to shoot.

Panicked, Tybalt wrenches free and lurches onto the roadway.

Blinded by the headlights of an oncoming car he thuds onto

its hood as it skids to a halt. The impact catapults his

gun high into the air.

Romeo coldly follows its slow motion, spinning trajectory.

Real time stretches as the gun dances high above his head.

Police sirens, cars swerving, people screaming, and the

yelling of panicked commands fade to a nothingness.

Romeo stands calmly considering the gun in the air. A

harrowing symphonic tone and the echo of Mercutio's voice

can be heard.

CUT TO: Patrol cars sliding to a halt.

CUT TO: The spinning gun slowly falling to earth.

CUT TO: Tybalt rising from the ground.

CUT TO: Cops leaping from their cars.

CUT TO: The gun landing in Romeo's hand. His eyes full of

rage.

CUT TO: Cops levelling their revolvers.

CUT TO: Real time - Romeo fires three deliberate shots.

Tybalt's body convulses backwards against the car, hitting

it with a thud, bloodying the shattered windscreen.

The cop fires. A bullet grazes Romeo's arm - his gun drops

as he screams.

At that moment a roaring hurricane wind hits; blinding police.

CLOSE ON: The scaffolding surrounding the Jesus statue.

Part of it's canvas covering rips away. Scaffold rains down

as the insanely flapping material tries to smash free from

it's moorings.

Through the mayhem, a rusty Ford driven by Balthasar, slides

to a halt.

Balthasar screams out at Romeo.

Romeo collapses into the front seat.

The cops open fire as Balthasar speeds off into the storm.

INT. BALTHASAR'S CAR. AFTERNOON.

Romeo is bleeding from the bullet graze.

EXT. CAUSEWAY. AFTERNOON.

The gale-force winds throw waves across the causeway as the

fugitives disappear into the black afternoon.

CRANE UP: In the distance we see Montague and Capulet towers.

Divided by the statue of Christ, they suffer the storm's rage.

EXT. MONUMENT. AFTERNOON.

Away, below the outstretched arms of Christ, lights from

emergency vehicles pulse red through the downpour.

THE CAMERA: Falls through heavy rain toward a woman crouched

over the lifeless body of Tybalt.

She cries:

Cops nervously eye Fulgencio Capulet and Ted Montague, who,

both flanked by body guards, face each other across the

crime scene. Medics stand by helplessly as Gloria clings to

Tybalt's body. A handcuffed Benvolio looks on.

Police lines part as Captain Prince arrives.

Benvolio struggles forward.

Gloria appeals hysterically:

Gloria interjects savagely.

Captain Prince turns to Gloria.

Ted Montague pleads:

Captain Prince eyes Montague coldly.

Montague, body guards in tow, surges forward.

Prince silences him.

The Captain turns and addresses his assembled officers.

CLOSE ON: Captain Prince.

INT. JULIET'S BEDROOM. AFTERNOON.

An acoustic guitar version of Joy Division's 'Love Will Tear

Us Apart.' Juliet traces the path of a raindrop on the

window pane as she speaks her thoughts to the storm.

EXT. CAPULET'S MANSION - DRIVEWAY. AFTERNOON.

Juliet's P.O.V.: The limousine pulls into the driveway.

PULL OUT: Of the window and CRANE DOWN: Juliet runs from the

room.

EXT. CAPULET MANSION. AFTERNOON.

Through the open doorway we see an excited Juliet meet the

Nurse at the bottom of the stairs.

The music surges.

TRACK IN: The Nurse's words are lost in the storm.

Juliet buckles.

INT. CAPULET MANSION. AFTERNOON.

We are close enough now to hear Juliet's words.

Juliet sinks to the floor, overwhelmed by tears.

Nurse looks down at Juliet. She goes and comforts her.

Juliet looks up through tears.

SLAM MACRO ZOOM: Into the ring. The screen fills with the

words 'I love thee'.

INT. PRESBYTERY BEDROOM. NIGHT.

Romeo lies on the bed shirtless and crying. His wound has

been bandaged and Balthasar crouches frightened in the corner.

The priest leads the Nurse into the room.

Romeo looks up.

She goes to him.

Romeo is wailing inconsolably.

Father Laurence shakes the hysterical boy.

Romeo calms. The Nurse gives him the ring.

Romeo enfolds the ring in his hand.

The priest goes to his wardrobe, removes a clean white shirt

and helps Romeo put it on.

Father Laurence ushers Romeo from the room.

INT. HALLWAY. NIGHT.

They hurry down the hallway.

The priest opens the front door.

Romeo embraces him.

The priest and Balthasar watch as Romeo and the Nurse sprint

for the car.

INT. CAPULET MANSION. NIGHT.

Sobs echo through the house.

Dave Paris stands in the entrance hallway clutching a huge

bunch of flowers.

Fulgencio Capulet stands beside him, whisky glass in hand.

CUT TO: Gloria on the upper landing. There is a strange

faraway quality about her as she descends to Dave and Capulet.

Dave, an understanding smile.

Capulet guides Dave into the house.

Capulet takes a large slug of whisky. Gloria leans close to

Dave.

As Gloria, Dave and Capulet exit down the hallway we CRANE

UP: toward Juliet's bedroom door.

INT. JULIET'S BEDROOM. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's face. Tears stream onto the pillow.

Without warning a hand lightly touches her cheek. Juliet's

eyes dart up to discover Romeo standing above her.

A still moment of disbelief. Leaning down, Roemo kisses

away the tears that fall from her dark, wide eyes.

Juliet's lips find Romeo's and they gently sink back onto

the bed.

INT. SITTING ROOM. NIGHT.

Capulet sits in an armchair drinking. Dave and Gloria sit

opposite as Capulet whips himself into a frenzy of drunken

excitement.

Gloria looks up alarmed; Dave is stunned.

CUT TO: Gloria, her face hardens.

Dave is trying to catch up.

CUT TO: Capulet he eyes Dave intently.

Delighted, Capulet jumps to his feet.

Capulet holds out his glass in toast. Dave and Gloria rise.

CLOSE ON: The glasses clink.

EXT. CAPULET ESTATE. DAWN.

A pink and gold dawn breaks over Capulet Mansion.

INT. JULIET'S BEDROOM. DAWN.

A tangle of young limbs.

Romeo and Juliet blissfully asleep. The dawn light creeps

into the room.

EXT. CAPULET ESTATE. DAWN.

Balthasar's car covertly pulls into a side road near the

estate.

INT. JULIET'S BEDROOM. DAWN.

Romeo and Juliet still asleep.

CRANE DOWN: Toward the sleeping innocence of the faces.

HOLD: A shadow of fear passes across Romeo's features.

With a cry of panic, he sits bolt upright.

Wide awake, but disorientated, Romeo stares around the

room - as Juliet stirs, he remembers where he is.

Slipping quietly from the bed, Romeo begins to dress.

CLOSE ON: Romeo. A pair of lips enter frame and find his

neck. It is Juliet. She hugs herself to him.

Romeo turns - softly he strokes her cheek.

Juliet kisses his finger-tips.

And then his cheek...

Romeo, feverishly returning the kisses, throws himself on

Juliet.

Juliet is suddenly still. Romeo kisses her gently.

Juliet pulls Romeo to his feet.

Frantically she helps him into his clothes.

There is an urgent knocking on the door. They freeze.

Desperately Juliet pulls Romeo out onto the balcony.

EXT. BALCONY. DAWN.

The storm, now past, has left a morning achingly pure.

Romeo climbs down from the balcony and into the shadows.

Romeo smiles up at her.

Juliet's face darkens.

Romeo scrambles back up to the balcony.

From Juliet's bedroom comes the brittle sound of Gloria

Capulet's voice.

Juliet spins around. Gloria has parted the curtains and is

staring directly at her daughter.

CUT TO: Romeo sheltered just below the lip of the balcony.

FOLLOW: His hand, as it slowly reaches up and touches

Juliet's fingers hidden behind her back.

Gloria returns to the room. Juliet steals a glance toward

Romeo as he silently mouths:

As Romeo's face disappears into the shadows Juliet whispers

a little prayer to herself.

INT. JULIET'S BEDROOM. DAWN.

Juliet is trying not to cry as she goes in to her mother.

Gloria turns to her.

Juliet plays along.

Gloria takes a deep breath.

CLOSE ON: Juliet. She can barely speak.

Fear passes across Gloria's face.

Capulet - whisky glass in hand - ebulliently bursts into the

room.

Capulet - a dangerous calm.

PAUSE: Capulet considers his daughter, then -

BAM! He hurls his glass against the wall, shattering it

into a thousand pieces.

Capulet advances. Juliet, terrified, retreats into the

hallway.

INT. LANDING. DAY.

The Nurse appears as Capulet picks his daughter up and

shakes her like a rag doll.

He throws her to the floor. His fist thuds as it slams into

her face.

Gloria tries to restrain Capulet. He back-hands her,

sending her flying against the wall - bellowing insanely, he

advances on his cowering daughter.

The Nurse throws herself between Capulet and Juliet.

Furious, Capulet shunts her aside.

Capulet yanks his daughter's face close to his.

Capulet storms off down the hall.

CLOSE ON: Juliet. She huddles, shaking at the top of the

stairs.

A trickle of blood issues from Gloria's cut lip. She checks

her appearance in the hall mirror.

Gloria leaves.

The Nurse doesn't reply.

A heavy silence.

The Nurse goes to Juliet.

Juliet is very still.

Juliet is matter of fact.

The old woman nods. She strokes Juliet's hair.

Juliet does not look up.

A disturbing choral chant:

INT. CHURCH. DAY.

Sunlight pierces stained glass - the chant a sinister

underscoring. We hear Dave Paris' voice:

CRANE DOWN: Father Laurence and Dave Paris stand at the

front of the church.

Father Laurence turns. Juliet stands framed in the white

glare of the doorway.

Dave smiles.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's hand concealed beneath her coat - we can

just see the handle of a gun.

Juliet advances slowly, an icy calm:

Juliet stares past Dave.

Father Laurence, a forced cheerfulness.

Juliet forces a smile.

Dave bends.

CLOSE ON: Juliet; she stares stonily ahead as Dave kisses

her cheek.

Dave leaves.

TRACK WITH: Juliet; she runs for the sacristy.

The priest follows.

INT. SACRISTY. DAY.

Juliet, shaking with sobs takes refuge in the shadows of the

small room.

The priest goes to her.

Juliet pulls away.

She pulls the gun, pointing it towards herself.

Horrified, Father Laurence moves to her.

Juliet, panicked, levels the gun at him.

Father Laurence holds out a soothing hand.

We hear the distended chords of Faure's Requiem.

It continues throughout as;

The entire screen fills with a glinting tear drop of blue

liquid.

Reflected in the fluid's convex surface, the face of Father

Laurence.

The face disappears as the tear drop falls and splashes into

a clear water solution.

Like a comet in slow motion, the drop stains the water a

cobalt hue.

INT. GREENHOUSE WORKROOM. DAY.

PULL BACK: The blue liquid fills a tiny glass vial held by

Father Laurence.

The priest cautiously hands Juliet the vial.

EXT. CHURCH. DAY.

As Father Laurence speaks, the screen fills with an express

envelope addressed "Romeo - Mantua." The envelope pulls away

from the camera and falls into a canvas bag brimming with

hundreds of like envelopes.

TRACK: With the canvas bag. It continues its journey into

the back of an express delivery van.

Heavy double doors slam shut, filling the screen with the

slogan 'Speed Express.'

The van pulls away.

EXT. MANTUA. DAY.

A burning red sun is setting over an endless vista of ragged

wasteland.

CRANE DOWN: A weathered sign reads - Mantua: Behind it a

vast colony of permanent trailer homes stretches into the

distance.

The rap, rap, rap of knocking echoes through the park...

CUT TO: The source of the knocking. An express delivery

man, envelope in hand, raps vigorously on the door of an

unremarkable trailer.

INT. TRAILER. DAY.

TOPOGRAPHICAL SHOT: Romeo lies flat on a single bed in the

crampled trailer.

The rap, rap, rap is very loud now. We move toward Romeo

and realise he cannot hear the knocking because he has

Walkman headphones on.

EXT. TRAILER. DAY.

Unsuccessful, the delivery man is filling out a "WE CALLED"

card. He pushes it under the door.

INT. CAPULET MANSION. NIGHT.

The heraldic 'Wedding Chimes' by JS Bach. Juliet stands

resplendent in a radiant bridal gown. The image floats

ethereally in a towering slab of mirror.

PULL OUT: From the mirror. The wedding dress is in fact

being held in front of Juliet by two members of the house

staff. Juliet is dressed in her night gown. The Nurse

suggests various pairs of shoes.

The fuss dispensed with, the staff leave.

Juliet navigates the Nurse toward the door.

Juliet holds the Nurse in a pleading stare. She leaves.

Alone now, Juliet hurries to her bedside drawer. She

cautiously removes a rolled piece of cloth from which she

produces the glass vial.

She cautiously begins to unscrew the tiny black lid.

Suddenly, a knock at her door. Palming the vial, Juliet

swings around to meet the arrival of her mother. Gloria

probes her daughter's uneasiness.

Juliet begins to pull down the covers on her bed.

Gloria, sensing Juliet's distress, moves cautiously toward

her. Taking hold of the bed covers she helps her daughter

into bed.

Juliet slides into bed. Gloria covers her with the blanket.

A brief moment between mother and daughter. Gloria, unable

to cross that final barrier, moves to the door; but she is

stopped by the urgency in Juliet's voice.

Gloria turns to Juliet.

CLOSE ON: Gloria. A faint perplexity, and then with an

almost warm smile she turns out the light and leaves.

The room is in darkness but for patterns of moonlight

through windows.

TRACK: Toward Juliet. The sombre tones of Faure's Requiem

seep into our consciousness.

She brings the vial her mouth.

Juliet drinks, a sudden violent convulsion, her face contorts

in fear.

EXT. CAPULET ESTATE. DAY.

The sky is filled with green and grey clouds. A gusty rain

blows the flower arrangements across the lawn. Large white

wedding marquees flap in the wind.

Through blurring rain, we see ambulances and police vehicles,

lights flashing. Father Laurence, accompanied by a dour

looking man in black, alights from his car. We follow their

P.O.V.: We hear snatches of radio calls.

INT. CAPULET MANSION - DINING ROOM. DAY.

They enter the house and pass the vast dining room, bedecked

with wedding decorations.

Capulet sits at the large mahogany table. In the background

Gloria stares vacantly.

Moving swiftly toward a doorway, the music builds.

INT. CAPULET MANSION - JULIET'S BEDROOM. DAY.

The door opens. On the bed Juliet's still body. Father

Laurence closes the door. The priest kneels and hastily

examines Juliet's pupils. He looks to the man in black who

retrieves the glass vial from the floor and pockets it.

When the man in black allows two other dark suited men into

the room, it becomes clear he is the undertaker.

INT. MAUSOLEUM. DAY.

A thousand voices proclaim the 'Song of Ascension.'

PAN DOWN: From the vaulting glass ceiling of the Capulet

mausoleum.

On view, enshrined in literally thousands of lit candles, is

Juliet's peaceful body.

We move through lines of Capulet mourners. In the shadows

of the front door a young man hides.

CLOSE ON: The young man. We recognise the distressed face

of Balthasar.

PUSH IN: Balthasar rushes from the Mausoleum.

EXT. MANTUA. DAY.

We are high above Mantua. Beyond the trailer park stretches

a long ribbon of black highway.

As a Speed Express van turns off the highway and into the

park, we hear Romeo's voice over:

CRANE DOWN: The Express van pulls up at the front office.

The driver alights and goes inside.

INT. TRAILER. DAY.

Romeo sits at the trailer's small kitchen table smoking and

writing in his notebook. The "WE CALLED" card lies next to

an overflowing ashtray.

His voice over continues.

Stubbing out his cigarette, Romeo gazes through the trailer

window to see Balthasar's speeding car turn off the highway

and into the trailer park.

An excited Romeo rushes from the trailer.

EXT. TRAILER PARK. DAY.

CRANE HIGH: Romeo sprints across open ground to intercept

Balthasar's car. We see, but Romeo cannot, the Express van

approaching from the office. The car slews to a halt and

Balthasar jumps out.

Romeo yells joyously.

Bathlasar cannot speak.

Balthasar does not know how to say what he has come to tell.

He looks away.

For a long moment Romeo is profoundly still. When he

speaks, it is with a chilling calm.

Balthasar nods.

Romeo turns and stares into the distant wasteland.

CLOSE ON: He speaks with bitter determination.

Romeo moves to the car.

Balthasar tries to restrain him.

Exploding with fury, Romeo throws Balthasar against the

vehicle.

CUT TO: The Speed Express messenger. Returning to his

truck, the priest's undelivered envelope in his hand, the

messenger looks toward the two boys.

CUT TO: The boys. Balthasar pleads with Romeo.

Balthasar shakes his head.

Romeo smiles.

Romeo climbs into the passenger seat of the car. Balthasar

reluctantly gets behind the wheel.

As silent tears begin to flow, Romeo turns his face to the

setting sun.

PUSH IN: As he whispers:

Balthasar's car roars out of the park.

CUT TO: The delivery man. He looks to the envelope in his

hand, then gets back into his truck.

EXT. HIGHWAY. NIGHT.

Balthasar's car speeds along the night-time highway.

CRANE UP: In the distance the glow of city lights.

EXT. ALLEYWAY. NIGHT.

Balthasar's car pulls into an alley and stops outside a

decrepity apartment block.

INT. APARTMENT BLOCK. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A bespectacled eye peers through the crack of a

partly open doorway. Below the face, the barrel of a

shotgun protrudes menacingly.

CUT TO: Romeo in the dark, paint peeling hallway.

The eye considers, a voice rasps back.

Romeo speaks with fury.

Romeo shoves a wad of money at THE APOTHECARY'S face.

BEAT. The rattle of a latch chain and the door swings open.

Standing in the doorway is The Apothecary. Sixty something,

he has a face scarred with age and abuse.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.

INT. PRESBYTERY. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Father Laurence. He speaks into the telephone

with concern.

INT. SPEED EXPRESS DEPOT. NIGHT.

A bored clerk is on the other end of the line. The priest's

letter is on the counter beside him.

INT. PRESBYTERY. NIGHT.

Father Laurence is worried.

He hangs up the receiver and looks at the wall clock.

DISSOLVE FROM: The clock to...

INT. APOTHECARY'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A cat skitters across a stained formica table.

PULL BACK: The Apothecary's apartment is filled with cats.

Dozens of feline eyes glow in the dim room. Romeo stands

nervously. The Apothecary extracts a small chemist's vial

from inside a 'Statue of Our Lady' table lamp - he now

speaks with cool professionalism.

Romeo takes the vial and hands over the money.

INT. BALTHASAR'S CAR. NIGHT.

Motor running, Balthasar waits in the alley outside the

apartment building. He checks the rear view mirror and

freezes. At the end of the alleyway a police car crawls to

a halt.

EXT. ALLEYWAY. NIGHT.

Romeo exits the building, and as he does so, the streetlight

catches his face. The Cop's and Romeo's eyes meet.

INT. POLICE CAR. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: The cop.

INT. BALTHASAR'S CAR.

Balthasar cracks; he guns the engine and the car lurches

forward.

EXT. ALLEYWAY. NIGHT.

Tires screech as Romeo dives into the passenger seat of

Balthasar's moving vehicle.

Siren blaring, the police car gives chase.

AERIAL SHOT. NIGHT.

Balthasar's car winds through traffic - the patrol car

gaining.

EXT. ANOTHER PART OF TOWN. NIGHT.

A police car U-turns over a median strip.

EXT. BALTHASAR'S CAR. NIGHT.

TIGHT ON: A rusted brown hood.

The tortured engine screams as Balthasar negotiates the

speeding car through city traffic.

CRANE UP: Red and blue police light approach fast.

INT. PRECINCT OFFICE. NIGHT.

Captain Prince barrels through the corridors of police

headquarters pulling on his flying jacket.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT.

TIGHT ON: A smoking tire as it lays rubber to the asphalt.

Balthasar grits his teeth as he weaves the car through the

impossibly tight space between a container truck and a bus.

WHIP PAN: The patrol car is almost upon them when... in a

seemingly suicidal manoeuvre Balthasar throws his car into a

right-angle turn across four lanes of oncoming traffic.

Horns blare.

CUT TO: A skidding, squealing, out of control sedan, braking

to avoid collision.

Miraculously, Balthasar's vehicle shoots out of it its path

and onto the other side of the roadway.

The sedan slams into the following patrol car.

EXT. DRIVEWAY. NIGHT.

Balthasar's car speeds into the driveway of the Verona Beach

Eternal Rest Cemetery.

INT. CHOPPER. NIGHT.

Captain Prince scans the night time city below. He speaks

to the pilot and the chopper banks sharply.

EXT. CEMETERY. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A stone angel etched against the night sky.

PAN DOWN: Romeo pulls a crowbar from the trunk of the parked

car. Police sirens sound in the distance.

Romeo eyes Balthasar intently.

Balthasar stands motionless - Romeo rips the torch from his

hands and strides into the cemetery. Balthasar follows.

Romeo turns, punching Balthasar hard; he goes down, blood

spurting from his nose.

Balthasar slowly rises. Both boys are trying hard not to cry.

Romeo smiles.

They embrace as Romeo whispers.

EXT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A crowbar wrenches at ornate glass and iron doors.

PULL BACK: The Gothic structure of the mausoleum rears

against the night sky. Romeo frenziedly attacks the gates

of the small side chapel.

With a final heave the doors scrape open.

Silence.

ROMEO'S P.O.V.: An endless marble corridor lit by hundreds

of tiny flickering eternal flames.

CLOSE ON: Romeo. He murmurs:

Suddenly a hurricane wind and whirr of machinery: like a

huge black insect, Captain Prince's chopper swoops down over

the mausoleum.

Romeo is caught in the glare of the chopper's burning arc

light. Sirens scream, police units race through the cemetery.

Blinded, Romeo fires wildly toward the chopper.

The police cars screech to a halt.

CLOSE ON: A police marksman in the chopper. His finger

squeezes the rifle trigger.

BANG! A bullet slams into Romeo's shoulder. The other cops

open fire and Romeo is sent reeling backwards into the

mausoleum in a fusillade of bullets.

INT. CHOPPER. NIGHT.

An angry Captain Prince bellows into the radio.

The police hold their fire.

INT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Bleeding from the shoulder wound, Romeo drags shut the heavy

double doors of the chapel. He bangs off three shots

through a pane of broken glass and screams at the police.

EXT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Outside the chopper hovers. Police take up siege positions.

Captain Prince's voice echoes through the bullhorn.

INT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Romeo uses the crowbar to wedge the doors shut. He bangs

off another shot as he yells out at the Police.

Romeo waits. There is no response from the cops.

INT. CHOPPER. NIGHT.

As the chopper settles to earth, Captain Prince speaks into

the radio.

INT. PRIEST'S CAR. NIGHT.

Orange rescue lights reflect through the windshield of the

priest's car as it crawls past the crashed sedan and police

vehicle.

Father Laurence thumps the steering wheel in frustration.

Across the road Police swarm around the entrance to the

cemetery.

HOLD ON: The green glow of the car clock as the seconds

pulse away.

INT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

TRACK: Down the marble corridor lit by the eternal flames.

DISCOVER: Romeo. He weakly stands at the entrance to the

viewing chapel.

The chapel is dark.

As Romeo's eyes adjust he can just see, picked out by a

shaft of blue moonlight, the glowing figure of a sleeping

girl. He moves down the aisle past the tombs of long-dead

Capulets.

Romeo is close now. He halts as if in the presence of an

unbelievable vision. He lights a match and the room glows

gold. The warm light reveals a Juliet even more beautiful

in seeming death.

Romeo lights some of the hundreds of candles that surround

her.

Romeo kneels close, as if not wanting to wake a sleeping

child. Unconscious tears fall from his eyes as he whispers.

He lays himself close.

Gently Romeo kisses Juliet's lips. Ever so slightly,

Juliet's hand moves - Romeo does not notice.

Romeo drinks from the vial; the power of the compound is

immediate. He convulses and falls, his head resting on

Juliet.

Behind Romeo's head we can see Juliet's eyes opening. Romeo

sucks the last few breaths of life into his lungs. Through

a blurry consciousness Juliet becomes aware of Romeo.

Forcing herself up, she cradles his head in her arms.

Romeo's clear wide eyes stare back, he is completely still

but for the sound of weak breaths desperately drawn across

motionless lips.

Juliet finds the vial clenched in Romeo's hand. Tears slip

from her eyes.

She delicately kisses Romeo's lips.

Desperately the lovers cling to each other. With all his

desire to stay alive, Romeo whispers:

There is no breath. He is still. Silence. Sobbing, Juliet

hugs the lifeless Romeo to her.

She looks to the gun in his hand.

EXT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

TRACK: Quickly past Captain Prince and the Capulets taking

cover behind a patrol car.

Two police officers urgently convey Montague and his wife

toward them.

Discover Father Laurence arriving.

CUT TO: Father Laurence's P.O.V.: Patrol cars, lights

flashing, surround the mausoleum.

He sees, through the open door of a police car, a hand-

cuffed youth. It is Balthasar. Father Laurence hurries to

him.

It is dawning on Father Laurence.

CLOSE ON: Father Laurence.

Father Laurence turns towards the mausoleum.

INT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

TRACK SLOW TOWARD: Juliet: Sobbing uncontrollably she prises

the gun from Romeo's hand.

EXT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Father Laurence, desperate, breaks through the police line

and runs toward the mausoleum.

CUT TO: The parents and Captain Prince.

INT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Juliet turns the gun on herself.

EXT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Father Laurence, he screams as he mounts the

mausoleum stairs.

CRACK! The sound of a single gun shot rips through the night.

CUT TO: Captain Prince.

CUT TO: The parents, a look of cold shock.

CUT TO: The priest - his cry echoes through the night.

INT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Juliet lies peacefully on Romeo's chest. Her eyes awake. A

wash of deep red blood floods across them both. As we move

away from the forms of the two young lovers lit by a ring of

candles, the police burst in, guns ready to resolve what has

already been resolved. Continuing up, we pass through the

glass dome of the viewing chapel, and over the building.

EXT. MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

There, huddled at the base of the Mausoleum steps, are the

Montague and Capulet parents and Father Laurence.

From high up we see Captain Prince emerge from the Mausoleum

and speak to the group. A moment, then their cries float

gently up.

EXT. SKY. NIGHT.

We are travelling high into the sky now. The cries of the

parents and the buzz of radio calls fade to nothing.

EXT. VERONA BEACH STREET - CHRIST ROUNDABOUT-FROM AIR. DAWN.

As the sun struggled to rise, we push toward the figure of

Jesus silently surveying the city.

EXT. VERONA BEACH - CHRIST ROUNDABOUT. DAWN.

As Jesus' face fills the screen, droplets of water begin to

streak his cheeks.

HOLD: Music swells; the droplets grow to a torrent, and a

heavy rain begins to fall.

For a long beat, we stay with this image.

CRANE DOWN: From the Jesus. A sea of black umbrellas

stretches back from the steps of Freedom Tower.

EXT. FREEDOM TOWER. DAY.

At the top of the steps are a pair of flower strewn caskets.

Before the caskets stand Fulgencia and Gloria Capulet, and

Ted and Caroline Montague. They stare with blank,

uncomprehending sorrow.

Among the crowd we see the distraught faces of Benvolio,

Balthasar, Father Laurence and the Nurse.

The caskets are gently slid into a pair of long black cars.

Montague and Capulet descend the stairs. Captain Prince

blocks their path. He holds them in his gaze.

The Prince steps aside. The procession moves off. Montague

and Capulet look to one another, a moment, and then the two

adversaries together follow the bodies of their dead children.

AERIAL SHOT: The rain falls. Two black cars lead the people

of Verona Beach in a sorrowful parade.

As the cars pass beneath the towering effigy of Jesus, the

image pixilates into a television picture.

PULL OUT: A TV anchor woman watches the image on a studio

monitor.

She turns:

The anchor woman changes beat to the next story; but her

dialogue fades, and her image gets smaller as the television

recedes into a black distance.

The music that reminds us most of these two lost lives

swells. When the television is very small it is switched off.

BLACK SCREEN. HOLD A BEAT.

THE END

