A BLOOD RED SCREEN - A JAPANESE DRUM starts to play, softly,

but tinged with a desperate edge, growing louder, joined by

other DRUMS as a BLACK LEGEND scrolls up: In feudal Japan,

the warrior class of Samurai were sworn to protect their

liege lords with their lives.  Those Samurai whose liege was

killed suffered a great shame, and they were forced to wander

the land, looking for work as hired swords or bandits.  These

masterless warriors were no longer referred to as Samurai,

they were known by another name: Such men were called Ronin.

The words hang on the screen and we hold for a BEAT, and then

the DRUMS are cut off by - A SILENCED GUN SHOT: Thwpfft...

FADE IN ON:

INT. A MEDIEVAL CATHEDRAL - NIGHT

It's dark, and so it takes us a minute to realize we're

MOVING UP STONE SPIRALING STAIRS, up up up in what we now see

is a medieval cathedral.  And as we continue MOVING UP

something TRICKLES DOWN INTO FRAME - BLOOD.  Running thin,

then thicker, as we CONTINUE TO MOVE UP the stairs and find -

A BODY, sprawled awkwardly across the stones, arms and legs

akimbo, not so much Christ-like as victim-like.  In one hand

the Body holds a GUN he never had a chance to use.  In the

other - A DARK SHAPE, we can't quite tell what it is.

FOOTSTEPS sound from above and - THE KILLER walks into frame,

silenced pistol dangling at his side.  We don't know him, and

it's going to be a while before we see him again, but mark

his face because we'll see him again.  The Killer now picks

up the dark shape in the Body's hand, and we see it's - A

BRIEFCASE.  The Killer cuffs the Briefcase to his wrist and

turns to - TWO MEN standing behind him: subordinates.  The

Killer shows them the Briefcase.

THE BODY suddenly twitches -- this guy is not quite dead.

The Killer raises his silenced pistol.

SLAM CUT TO:

EXT. A BACK STREET - PARIS - NIGHT

A PHONE RINGS, replacing the sound of the silenced gun shot

we expected to hear.

Rain-slicked cobblestones gleam in a twinkling of

streetlight.

EXT. A PHONE BOOTH AT THE END OF THE STREET

The source of the ringing.  We start to PUSH SLOWLY IN one the

phone booth, and as we do we hear the VOICE of an UGLY

AMERICAN.

CUT TO:

INT. A DRIVE BAR IN PARIS - NIGHT

A SOCCER MATCH is in progress on a TV which sits above the

bar in this smokey, dim dive.

And now we're PULLING BACK DOWN THE LENGTH OF THE BAR.  We

see THREE MEN sitting seperately at the bar, paying no

attention to each other.  One of these men watches the game

with real interest.  The Ugly American talks on from off

screen.

SLAM CUT TO:

EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE

The phone is still ringing, louder now, and we're MOVING

TOWARDS it while looking THROUGH AN UNSEEN PAIR OF EYES, and

even as we drink this in we're back in -

INT. THE BAR

AT THE END OF THE BAR - LARRY, the Ugly American.  He's got

an obvious attitude, all of it bad.  But there's something

about the guy -- he's not all bluster, and he has the look of

a seasoned tough guy who knows how to get rough and tumble.

He's big, and yeah he's got a gut, but the rest of him looks

solid.

The one man at the bar who's been watching the gam turns

slowly and gives Larry a long look.  This is VINCENT: French,

hard boiled and solid.  Charming when he wants to be, which

isn't all that often.  He gives Larry a long look and then

speaks -

A BEAT.  The other two men at the bar, who seem like tough

customers themselves, pretend not to watch too closely, but

they're interested: what's Larry going to say?  For a moment

it seems as if he's pissed, but then suddenly a smile breaks

out on his face and he laughs heartily at Vincent's remark.

Vincent joins in, as do the others.  In particular - THE

BARTENDER looks relieved -- he's tough enough to toss a bar

drunk, but these guys are in a different league.  The

Bartender laughs with the others, happy to have avoided a

confrontation as we go back to -

EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE

We're almost ON TOP OF the phone booth, the phone is still

ringing as a HAND reaches INTO FRAME and snatches the phone

from its cradle.

ANOTHER ANGLE - And we see a woman named DEIRDRE on the

phone: striking, dark-haired, Irish.  She carries herself

with the same professional edge as the men inside the bar.

Deirdre listens for a moment to the voice on the other end,

and before she speaks she sense something - A SILHOUETTE

stands in the shadows of the bar, watching Deirdre.  She

gives this silhouette a measure glance before speaking, her

hand creeping ever so slightly towards her coat.

The silhouette steps into a POOL OF LIGHT.  This is SAM.

Tough, lean, enigmatic.  Somebody you might trust, but whom

you'd never cross.  Sam returns her look before he speaks.

Sam moves towards the bar, and Deirdre returns to her phone

conversation.

INT. THE BAR - A MINUTE LATER

Sam enters and by now the men inside have all come together

at the bar, talking casually, recognizing they're somehow all

here for a reason.  With Larry and Vincent we see - GREGOR, a

man from Eastern Europe.  His accent is hard to pin down,

but he most definitely has one.  Gregor has the air of an ex-

spook, and that's exactly what he is.  Lastly we see SWEDE --

blonde, muscular, and somehow blank in the face.  No, he's

not stupid -- he's a sociopath.  Now - Sam looks at the

group, which grows quiet as he enters.  Finally, Sam speaks.

Vincent turns towards the others, including them in an

expansive gesture.

Vincent smiles at Sam's answer, satisfied, and makes room for

Sam to join them.  Vincent takes a pack of cigarettes, shakes

them so that one sticks out, and offers it to Sam.

Vincent looks a little disappointed at this as we go -

EXT. BACK OUTSIDE - SAME TIME

THE PAY PHONE makes a sharp noise as it's cracked back into

the cradle.  Deirdre stands at the phone booth, lost in

thought.  Then, without warning - Deirdre spins around,

pulling TWO GUNS from inside her coat.  The move is fast,

performed with the grace of a professional killer, as Deridre

scans the horizon, but nobody seems to be watching.  Deirdre

pockets her guns and steps into the shadows of the street,

the better to watch -

THE BAR - And as Deirdre watches the bar we watch her.

PULLING BACK from Deirdre, UP INTO THE AIR and then MOVING

THROUGH TO -

INT. A CHEAP APARTMENT - SAME TIME

LOOKING THROUGH A WINDOW, donw onto the street below.  Barely

visible we can see Deirdre.  And staring at Deirdre - THE

WATCHER.  Somebody we're going to see periodically through

the movie.  Right now he's only a SILHOUETTE with a well-

defined PAIR OF HANDS.  And in those hands - A KNIFE.  As the

Watcher watches he slowly cleans his nail with the knife,

methodically, perfectly.  And he watches.  First Deirdre, and

then turning his attention to THE BAR.  He's especially

interested in the bar.

A TIME CUT TO:

INT. THE BAR - LATER

The BARTENDER is wiping out a last glass.  When this is

finished he looks up at -

A TABLE IN THE BACK -

Where our five guys have relocated.  Now the Bartender and

Vincent exchange a look, and then the Bartender takes out a

set of keys and tosses them - THROUGH THE AIR and they SMWACK

into Vincent's hand.  The Bartender and Vincent speak in

rapid-fire French, and then the Bartender is gone.  Sam turns

to Vincent.

Vincent takes out his pack of cigarettes and offer them

around the table -- again, nobody takes on.  Vincent seems

really disappointed by this.

There's a kind of general look around the table -- a nod or

grunt of acknowledgement, indicating that all of these men

were hired the same way.

There is a BEAT.  Gregor, Swede and Larry look at Sam, who

glares them all down.  Lastly, Sam turns and looks at

Vincent.  The two men nod at one another, acknowledging a

kind of mutual respect.

From OFF SCREEN we hear a new sound: LAUGHTER.  ANOTHER ANGLE -

Deirdre has entered the bar, and she's amused by this last

exchange.

Deirdre hands out several thick envelopes.  Larry and Swede

open theirs and stare at the wads of Franc Notes stuffed

inside.  Even Gregor cracks his envelope and peaks at his

money.  But neither Vincent nor Sam takes a look.

Deirdre turns to Sam.

Deirdre gives Sam a look -- and he returns it.  Finally,

Deirdre turns to Larry.

The two men exchange another look.  A pecking order is

developing among the group: Vincent and Sam are both natural

leaders, and now they're feeling one another out.

Deirdre waits a BEAT, letting Vincent know what she isn't any

more intimidated by him than he is by her.  Finally, she

turns to Swede.

CUT TO:

INT. A WAREHOUSE - DAY

A PAPER TARGET, in the shape of a human being, dances in

place as it is riddles with GUNSHOTS, each shot hitting the

target in the belly, each shot fired by - Larry, whose been

shooting a sleek automatic pistol from which he's just

discharged an entire clip.  The gun is empty, Larry turns to

Sam, who stands next in line.

Without a word, Sam pops a new clip into the gun and SHOOTS

THE LIGHTS out of several other human targets, hitting each

target in a different place.  One he clips between the eyes,

the next in the heart, one in the groin, and then the last

target - He SPLITS DOWN THE MIDDLE, firing shot after shot

from the head to the groin until the target is sheared in

half.  Larry is impressed in spite of himself.

IN A CORNER OF THE WAREHOUSE -

Gregor has set up a table loaded with computers and

electronic whizmos.  Right now Gregor is holding a

particularly high-tech type CELL PHONE in his hands, looking

at it almost lovingly.

ANOTHER ANGLE - Deirdre sits nearby, looking at the cell

phone.

From off screen we hear MUNCHING.  It's - Larry inhaling a

sandwich.  A malicious look comes over Swede's face, who's

cleaning a pistol and sitting near Larry.

Both men eyeball one another, and then suddenly Larry reaches

for his piece, and as soon as he does this Swede does the

same thing, but before they can do anything - DEIRDRE'S GUN

swings INTO FRAME, smashing Swede in the face and dropping

him to the floor.  Larry's mouth drops open in surprise, but

it's too late: Deirdre kicks him in the stomach and then

rabbit punches him in the back of the neck, driving him to

the ground.

A TENSE MOMENT as Deirdre stares down at these tough guys --

letting them know who's in charge.  A SOUND from OFF SCREEN

interrupts this moment: a DOOR opening, as we see - Vincent,

who stands in the door, wearing his coat and hat.

He's been out somewhere, and he looks first at the squabbling

men, and then at - Deirdre.  She gives Vincent a little nod --

a silent command that makes Vincent turn to Sam.

Vincent and Sam start off, moving towards the door, while Swede

and larry slowly pick themselves up off the ground.

EXT. THE WAREHOUSE - SUNSET

A DESOLATE URBAN LANDSCAPE - Sam and Vincent walking away

from the warehouse, which is housed in what looks to be the

toughest neighborhood in the city, filled with CHEAP CONCRETE

PUBLIC HOUSING and INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS.

THE SETTING SUN throws a red glow on the street, giving the

raw concrete buildings a blood-colored tint, as Sam and

Vincent approach a FIAT, a car neither too old nor too new.

Before they can reach the car, the two men are intercepted by

FOUR TOUGHS, young guys in their early twenties.  The LEADER

of the Toughs apporaches Vincent.

The other Toughs add lib a few tough guy remarks (in French,

of course).

ANGLE ON THE LEADER - Who's smirking at Vincent and Sam.

Sam's words make a great deal of sense: the Leader is

speaking the universal language of "give me some money or

I'll kick your ass."

CUT BACK TO: Vincent and Sam.

Vincent backfists the Leader in the nose -- hitting him so

hard that the Leader skitters back on unsteady feet and then

sits down on his ass.  This blow hurt, but the real damage is

to the Leader's pride.  Now - One of the Toughs rushes at

Sam, only to have Sam perform what looks like a jujitsu throw

which savagely jerks the Tough off his feet and flattens him.

Sam reaches down as if to help the Tough, who ignores the

hand and totters to his feet.  As soon as he's up he turns

and runs away, followed by the other Toughs.  Now only the

leader is left behind.  He looks for a second at Vincent and

Sam, and then turns and runs after his friends.  Vincent

calls after him in French, but whatever he says isn't

translated.  Vincent turns to unlock the car.

By now the two men are in the car, which starts up and drives

off, as it does we -

CUT TO:

INT. THE FIAT - SAME TIME

Vincent laughs, and Sam looks out the window at the city of

Paris as we MOVE THROUGH to the outside world of -

EXT. PARIS DRIVING MONTAGE - TWILIGHT

A SERIES OF QUICK CUTS of the car driving through Paris at

night.  We don't see familiar sights like the Eiffel Tower or

the Arc de Triomph, but instead - We travel through the LEFT

BANK, down a series of Mazy Alleys which twist and turn,

filled with bistros, bars and falafel joints.  NEON SIGNS

line the streets for as far as the eye can see.  Near the end

of this trip we hear the SOUND OF A MATCH FLARING, followed

by -

INT. THE CAR - STILL DRIVING - SAME TIME

Vincent is driving and smoking a cigarette.  He tosses his

pack to Sam, but he seems a little surprised at Sam's

request.

Vincent stamps his cigarette out, looking vaguely unhappy

that Sam has spoiled his smoke.

Vincent, driving all the while, gives Sam a sideways glance

before speaking.

And on that thought we -

CUT TO:

EXT. A SIDE STREET - NIGHT

The Fiat pulls up to the curb and Vincent and Sam get out.

Vincent leads Sam around a corner and they come to -

AN EXQUISITE PARK, a small, perfectly manicured place -- a

kind of mini-Luxembourg Gardens in the middle of nowhere.

When Sam sees the park, he draws an involuntary breath.

The two men enter the park, which is, indeed, open to the

public.  Inside, sitting on a bench in the back, almost

invisible from the street, we see - FRANCOIS, a stubble-faced

tough with a stained shirt and bad teeth.  Vincent and Sam

draw near.  This next conversation between Francois and

Vincent is in FRENCH WITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES.

Vincent signals for Sam to stop.  Both Vincent and Sam are

still several feet away from Francois.

Sam hasn't said a word -- he doesn't seem to understand

what's been said, but he has noted the urgency with which

Francois spoke.  Now - We HOLD FOR A BEAT.  Neither Vincent

nor Francois pulls out a piece to shoot Sam.  Instead they

wait to see if Sam will respond in any way to what Francois

said.  The conversation now switches to ENGLISH, which (it

turns out) Francois speaks fairly well.

Vincent isn't going to answer, but the overbearing Francois

chimes in.

Francois's French words give Sam pause -- he's wondering

what's being said, as - Vincent moves towards Francois,

leaving Sam several steps away.  The conversation is again in

SUBTITLED FRENCH.

Francois gives the slightest of nods, indicating that Vincent

should look towards a place perhaps thirty yards away -

A COPSE OF TREES, where we see a SNIPER pointed a telescopic

rifle at Vincent.

SAM'S POV: Looking at Vincent and Francois.

The men are talking, and from here we can't really hear them

speak.  All Sam can see is an earnest Vincent listening to

Francois talk, almost as if Francois is giving Vincent

instructions.  Now - Vincent reaches into his pocket,

reaching for the envelope of cash he's carrying.  As he hands

the money to Francois, Vincent uses his free hand to pull out

his gun while - Sam already has his gun out -- somehow he

figured out what was going on -- and now Francois looks on in

stunned disbelief as -

Sam fires a single shot, hitting Francois in the shoulder,

driving him away from - Vincent, who now squeezes off several

rapid fire shots at the sniper, while - Francois, bleeding

but still very much alive, now has his piece free just as -

The Sniper, his gun firing wildly into the air, falls to the

ground, shot dead by Vincent, and now - Francois is drawing a

bead on Vincent when - Sam hits Francois with a fusillade of

bullets in the chest and now - A SINGLE SPENT BULLED CASING

flies through the air in SLOW MOTION and lands on the ground,

spinning around until it comes to a halt and - A HEAVY

SILENCE FALLS, as the last echo of the last gunshot finally

dies.  Vincent and Sam look at one another, see that they're

still alive, and then look back at - The two men they've

shot.  Francois isn't quite dead.  Blood bubbles from his

lips as Vincent leans over him.  Again, they speak in

SUBTITLED FRENCH

A LONG ANGLE - Vincent whispers in Francois's ear, whose grin

blanches as he realizes Vincent means to hurt him.  Francois

whispers something back and then - BANG.  Vincent shoots

Francois in the head, killing him instantly.  Then Vincent

bends down and retrieves the envelope of money which Francois

had tucked inside his shirt.  As Vincent does this, Sam comes

up from behind.

INT. THE FIAT - LATER/NIGHT

The two men drive in silence for a moment.  Vincent lights a

cigarette and offers one to Sam, who refuses.  Finally, Sam

speaks.

A BEAT, the two men driving in silence.

CUT TO:

EXT. AN APARTMENT HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER/NIGHT

Vincent's Fiat is parked at the curb in front of this

apartment house.  Vincent and Sam exit the car and move

towards the house -- a silence hanging between them.  Right

before they go into the house, Vincent takes out the envelope

full of cash that was supposed to have been for Francois.  He

thinks for a moment and then hands the whole envelope to Sam.

Vincent's voice trails off -- he doesn't know what to say.

Sam takes the money out of the envelope -- half he keeps for

himself, the other he gives to Vincent.

Sam opens the door to the house, but Vincent has one last

thing to say to him.

Sam almost smiles cynically at this: debts of honor don't

seem to be something he believes in.

They enter the house and the door closes behind them.  A

second later we hear -

INT. THE HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER

Vincent and Sam sit with Deirdre in a room, alone.  They've

told her about the park, and she seems a little pissed about

all of this.

Deirdre shakes her head in disgust and rises.  We FOLLOW HER

INTO -

AN ADJOINING ROOM -

Where Larry, Swede and Gregor are waiting.  They look up

expectantly at Deirdre, who crosses through the room without

stopping -- she's really pissed about this turn of events.

And she exits, leaving these three men behind along with Sam

and Vincent, who have entered from the other room.  larry

looks at the two of them.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

A CAR sits, cloaked in shadows.  Inside sits our friend, the

WATCHER.  Once again we see the Watcher's knife -- once again

he manicures his nails with it, almost delicately, as he

watches the House.  It's dark -- a single light glows behind

a window on the third floor.  Sam's room.

INT. SAM'S ROOM - SAME TIME

Sam has pushed all the furniture aside to make enough room to

do a martial arts form.  Right now he's frozen, one leg

extended in a kick, balancing on the other leg.  Now - A

KNOCK at his door -- seconds later, it opens.  Deirdre stands

there, watching as Sam holds his position for a BEAT more,

and then retracts his leg.

Deirdre spings at Sam, throwing martial arts combinations at

him: punch followed by kick, elbow strike followed by palm

thrust.  Sam parries her blows as she drives him across the

floor until he's got his back to the wall.  Their movements

are controlled, but powerful, and there's something almost

flirtatious about the whole thing.  Now -

Deirdre throws one last punch which Sam ducks.  He slips

behind her and suddenly they square off in earnest.  The

previous martial arts stuff was a kind of choreographed

exercise, but now - They spar for real -- they never hit one

another, but they come awfully close, hands and feet whizzing

through the air, throwing rapid-fire combinations and

techniques.  They're not angry, but they're not kidding,

either.  Finally - Deirdre feints a punch that distracts

Sam's attention from - The KICK she throws right behind her

punch, and she smiles as - WHUMP!  Sam wasn't distracted at

all -- he drops to the ground beneath her kick and catches

her standing leg with a sweep which takes her to the ground

and now - She's trapped beneath him.  The two of them are

breathing hard from the exertion, their faces close to one

another, shining with sweat and excitement and - We've gone

from flirting to an almost primal seduction, and with their

faces only inches apart Deirdre leans in to kiss Sam, and

he's about to meet her half way when he pulls back.

They finally kiss, slowly and then building in intensity, and

as they start to make love the

CAMERA MOVES UP - THROUGH THE BUILDING, floor by floor, until

we've reached -

EXT. A ROOFTOP GARDEN - MEANWHILE

Deirdre and Sam are not the only ones indulging in

extracurricular activities.  Up here in this rooftop garden

we find Swede and Gregor talking in hushed tones.

Suddenly Swede pulls Gregor down to the rooftop with a harsh

THUD.  Within seconds he has his gun pressed to Gregor's

head.

Swede is now on his feet, walking away, back into the

apartment house.

And he's gone.  And as soon as he is, we notice something

strange about Gregor: he's not the least bit scared -- he

laughs a little low laugh as we -

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. THE HOUSE - DAWN

GRAY LIGHT seeps in from the horizon, while inside in -

INT. SAM'S ROOM - SAME TIME

Deirdre is pulling her dress over her head.  Sam seems to be

sleeping in his bed as she moves like a cat towards the door

when -

Sam's HAND reaches out, gently yet firmly, and takes her by

the arm.

ANOTHER ANGLE - Sam is somehow sitting up, wide awake --

looking at Deirdre with a penetrating glance.

Somewhere in all of this Deirdre has sat back down on the

bed, and somehow now she's only inches away from Sam.

They're lips brush and -

A MUTED PHONE RINGS in a nearby room, breaking the moment.  A

QUICK BEAT, then -

Deirdre gives Sam a light kiss on the lips and then she opens

his door.  The muted phone is a little louder now.  Deirdre

closes Sam's door as she exits, but - Sam reaches out a hand

and catches the door right before it snaps shut.  He watches

THROUGH THE DOOR CRACK as - Deirdre cross the hall and

opens the door to her room, and now the phone rings loudly

until the door shuts, muting the sound once again, shutting

Sam out.  The phone stops ringing as Deirdre answers and as

this happens Sam shuts his door and as the door closes we go

to - BLACK.  Just for a second.  And then - BLINDING SUN hits

us in the eyes as we find ourselves above -

EXT. NICE - DAY

A DAZZLING OVERHEAD MOVING SHOT, establishing that we've

changed locales, moved to a place filled with sun and blue

water and reflective surfaces: the Cote d'Azure.  We start to

MOVE DOWN TOWARDS -

EXT. A PRIVATE BEACH - NICE - MEANWHILE

A TOPLESS GRANDMA reclines on a beach chair, soaking up rays,

sipping a drinnk just delivered by a young stud of a WAITER.

Nearby -

AT A ROUND TABLE -

A nice distance from anyone who might try to listen in, we

find our group: Deirdre, Sam, Vincent, Gregor, Swede, and

Larry.  Food and drink surround them.  Larry is, of couse,

still eating.

Nobody else seems to notice this look between them, but we

should -- if only to note that there's something about the

way Deirdre queries Sam about his role, and something about

the way Sam answers her without overly reacting -- they're

not flirting, but there's a kind of acknowledgment of the

history they now have between them.  But -- nobody else

notices, and Swede's line follows Sam's without breaking the

flow of the dialogue.

EXT. A POSH HOTEL - LATER - NIGHT

A ROW OF ROOMS, each one with a light behind a shade.  Even

as we watch the light in each room goes off: one two three

four five six lights -- one for each member of the team.  The

night before the big event nobody breaks curfew.

ACROSS THE STREET -

A BAR -

Through the bar window we see the Watcher's silhouette.  A

match flares as the Watcher lights a cigarette, REVEALING his

face for the first time: weathered, sharp, treacherous.  THE

MATCH goes out, and the Watcher's face FADES TO BLACK, and so

do we.

FADE IN ON:

EXT. THE HILLS OF NICE - MORNING

A PRIVATE ESTATE IN THE HILLS -

A CARAVAN OF BLACK ARMOR PLATED CARS, all idling, ready to

pull out, filled with muscular men in suits with bluges under

their jackets, all of them waiting for - THE TARGET.  Except

we've seem him before and he wasn't called the Target: he was

the Killer from the first scene of the film: the gunman in

the cathedral who made off with -  THE BRIEFCASE.  Which the

briefcase is still handcuffed to his side.  Now the Target

gets into his car, a BLACK MERCEDES, and as soon as he's in

the caravan pulls out and - The Target takes out his cell

phone, punches in a number and starts to talk, and as he does

we - PULL BACK, INTO THE AIR, leaving the Caravan behind as

we MOVE TOWARDS THE WATER and -

THE PROMENADE DES ANGLAIS, the long roadway that runs the

length of the town adjacent to the beach.  It's a special

place, a huge road for cars, along with a promenade for

tourists.  Here we come upon -

AN OUTDOOR CAFE -

Where we find Deirdre, a laptop in front of her, wearing a

HEADSET.  And, lest we think she looks out of place, we get

a look at -

THE REST OF THE CAFE -

Where many of the other PATRONS are typing away on laptops,

or chattering like crazy on their cell phone.  She types a

sentence on her keyboard, and as she types she says it out

loud.

CUT TO:

INT. A CRAMPED COMPTUER CONTROL ROOM - SAME TIME

Gregor is sitting behind a console, looking at Deirdre's

message, which we can read on his laptop.  Gregor also has a

much bigger COMPUTER with him as well, and on this screen we

see - A COMPUTER GRAPHIC MAP OF NICE.  This is a map of

incredible detail, a high-tech graphic rendering of Nice.

Now - THE MAP starts to shift, randomly moving about the city

as it searches for the proper signal.  The computer isolates

an entire district of the city, enlarges a part of the

district, and then locates and enlarges a single street.  Now

- On screen a FLASHING CURSOR appears on the map, the TARGET.

The Cursor starts to move down one of the streets of Nice and

as we follow the Curson it TURNS INTO - THE TARGET CAR,

driving home the point that Gregor is now locked onto the

Target.  THE JAPANESE DRUMS we heard in the opening sequence

start to play again -- softly, ominously, and we're on -

EXT. A SIDE STREET

Where VINCENT'S FIAT is parked at a curb, Sam and Vincent

sitting inside.

INT. THE FIAT

Vincent sits behind the wheel, while Sam sits next to him,

loading a small arsenal of weapons.

The DRUMS grow, a little louder now, a little more urgent.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET

A VOLVO idles, waiting for something, Larry behind the wheel

of this car, and sitting next to him Swede.  The DRUMS

continue to play, and their volume is still low, but they're

jarring, setting our nerves on edge.

INT. THE VOLVO

THE CAR PHONE rings, and Swede pushes a button.  Deirdre's

Voice is heard on the speaker phone.

EXT. THE CAFE

Deirdre looks at her laptop and relays Gregor's instructions.

She speaks over her headset as if she's conducting ordinary

business -- as if she's giving someone traffic directs

over the phone.  The JAPANESE DRUMS continue, quiet and yet

intense.

During this next sequence, the DRUMS will continue to play,

building with the action as we do -

THE CHASE MONTAGE: A SERIES OF CUTS AS -

The Volvo takes a flying left turn -

Gregor watches the Target on his computer as it moves towards

the Promenade des Anglais, typing the results on his

keyboard as - The Volvo careens down a steep hill, hits a

bump, and flies through the air a good fifteen feet, even as -

The Fiat follows close behind and hits the same bump, does

the same flight through the air and lands with a thud -

THE CARAVAN of cars -

THE TARGET CAR -

THE TARGET, still talking away on his cell phone - THE

COMPUTER MAP tracking the Target's movements, as the Map

shifts and moves as it keeps pace with the target, and now -

The Promenade des Anglais is right ahead and the DRUMS build

to a crescendo as -

The Volvo SMASHES into the Target Car and they grind

together, as -

CARS 3 & 4 in the Caravan are cut off by Vincent's Fiat,

which forces them to slam to a halt, as -

Larry runs the Target Car to a halt and the JAPANESE DRUMS

stop.

Larry and Swede hop out of the Volvo, and Swede brandishes a

MONSTER of a MACHINE GUN, with which he opens fire, a blast

of huge guage shells spitting a trail of fire, smashing

against THE WINDSHIELD of the Target Car, which is bullet-

proof.  The windshield doesn't break right away -- but the

heavy blast of firepower causes the windsield to buckle.

Sam and Vincent are now out of the Fiat, guns drawn, blazing

away at BODYGUARDS, and Christ, there's an army of them,

pouring out of Cars 3 & 4.  These guys are armed and returning

fire as -

Larry gets out of the driver's seat of the Volvo, and he's

got some kind of sumbitch weapons himself, a ROCKET LAUNCHER,

which he points and fires - And now we TRACK THE MISSLE as

it scorches the air, traveling towards -

The LEAD CAR of the caravan which has only now realized

what's going on behind it, and as frantic Bodyguards drive

back towards the carnage - The Missle IMPACTS, blowing the

Car sideways.

Meanwhile - Sam and Vincent are taking out the Other

Bodyguards, and these guys are warriors -- they moves as a

team, each man with a gun in both hands, using a weapon until

it's out of bullets and then discarding it in favor of a new

one.

And even as this is going on - Deirdre has joined the fray,

firing both of her pistols, taking Sam's place at Vincent's

side so that Sam can run towards -

The Target Car, where the Target is seated in the backseat,

pulling out his own piece, ready to fight to the death

himself as -

Swede continues blasting away at the windshield with his

monster gun, and now - The Windshield has started to crack

and splinter, and abruptly, it shatters, instantly bursting a

bright red as Swede's bullets tear up the body of the Driver.

Now Sam has reaches the Target Car, just as the Target, who

is armed and, as we know, not exactly helpless, steps out of

the car and sights in on Swede and - ZING!  Sam fires,

winging the Target, knocking the gun out of his hand and

still the Target won't give up without a struggle, he hits

Swede with the Briefcase.

BANG.  Swede puts one shot between the Target's eyes, ending

his life.  Now - Swede takes out a DAI-SHO, the smaller of the

two traditional Japanese Samurai swords.  With one slashing

blow he hacks off the Target's HAND AT THE WRIST and grabs

the briefcase.  The SEVERED HAND is still caught in the

handcuffs, so that it is carried along for the ride.  Now -

DISTANT SIRENS sound from OFF SCREEN as Swede moves back

towards Larry and the Volvo, and as he goes he raises the

briefcase (with its severed hand) in a kind of mock salute to

Sam, who starts to move back towards Deirdre and Vincent, who

have taken care of the remaining Bodyguards, and now the

SIRENS are growing closer as we - START TO MOVE IN SLOW

MOTION as Swede approaches the Volvo and - Deirdre and Vincent

are already at Vincent's Fiat, waiting for Sam, and so they

don't notice that - A VAN has been parked nearby this entire

time, and now the van's side door slides open, and unseen by

any of the others - Gregor steps out of the Van, a gun at his

side, and a predatory look on his face as - Swede reaches Larry

and the Volvo just as - Sam has reaches the Fiat, and now he looks

back and sees - Gregor, crossing the street, and now - Sam

screams a warning to Larry, but it's way too late because -

Swede shoots Larry in the neck, hitting him above the

protective covering of his bullet proof vest.  Now we're

MOVING IN REAL TIME as - Larry manages to get his backup

piece drawn, a snub-nosed .38, and he fires all six shots

into - Swede, hitting him in the stomach -- it's the same way

Larry shot the target in the warehouse.  Swede is sent flying

backwards, where he crashes to the pavement.  For a second we

think he's dead, but then he gets up, in pain but alive, just

as Sam predicted.  Swede claws at his shirt to reveal that he

too wears a bullet proof vest.  By now - Larry has rolled out

of the Volvo, crawling away but too weak to go far, and now -

Swede has Larry in his sights, he's going to kill him.

Swede turns to follow Larry's gaze, and as he does - Gregor

walks INTO FRAME and puts his gun right beneath Swede's chin.

Before Swede can even compute this, Gregor pulls the trigger,

firing straight up into Swede's brain.  Then, without even

looking at Larry, who is lying helpless on the ground -

Gregor takes the briefcase and gets into the Volvo, driving

off just as - Sam arrives, kneeling down by Larry.  The SIRENS

get louder.

Vincent's Fiat comes peeling to a halt in front of them,

Vincent and Deirdre inside it as Sam manages to get Larry

into the back seat.  Sam doesn't get in the car yet as Larry

says -

The SIRENS reach a crescendo as a group of GENDARMES arrive,

charging with automatic weapons drawn.  Between the French

cops and our heroes lies the shot up wreck of the Target Car,

and now - Sam takes out a GRENADE, pulls the pin, and rolls

it across the ground, beneath the Mercedes, which the cops

have just reached.  Seconds later - The Car EXPLODES, cutting

off the cops, and as this happens, Vincents puts the pedal to

the floor and gets the fuck out of Dodge.  We start to SLOWLY

PULL BACK on the remains of this battle: the dead bodies, the

shot up cars, the broken glass, and that flaming, smoking

hulk of a Mercedes in the middle of the street.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. THE OLD CITY/NICE - SUNSET

The FIREBALL of the car turns into a BLOOD RED SUN as it sets

in the Western sky, tinting the stone buildings of the Old

City a coppery red.

We're MOVING THROUGH the Old City, through the twists and

turns of what an American would call back alleys but that

pass for streets in this place.  It is quiet almost deserted,

then - A TESTOSTERONE CRAZED PLAYBOY whips his sports car

through one of these streets, engine whining, as we - MOVE

DOWN yet another side street, and this sucker really is a

back alley, you couldn't get a car down here if you tried.

Finally, we come to - A RAT TRAP OF AN OLD BUILDING, and we

PUSH TIGHT on this building as we hear -

INT. A BACK APARTMENT - SAME TIME

A SYRINGE is plunged into Larry's arm.  Sam is tending to

Larry's wound.  Sam seems to know what he's doing, as Larry

is also hooked up to a bottle of plasma hanging on a make-

shift stand.

Vincent's gun is out in the blink of an eye, at Deirdre's

head, but she's as fast as he is and her gun is drawn as

well, jammed into his stomach.

ANOTHER ANGLE - Sam has the two of them covered with his gun -

an interesting moment, because he can shoot either Deirdre or

Vincent, but not both at the same time.  The question is:

whose side is he on?

A BEAT.  And then Vincent and Deirdre lower their weapons,

followed by Sam.

Sam's look isn't romantic, but it implies a level of trust

based upon their physical intimacy.

Deirdre and Sam share the slightest of conspiratorial smiles

as they realize they're both thinking the same thought: they

might still win this one.

EXT. AIX EN PROVENCE - TWILIGHT

We're on perhaps the MOST BEAUTIFUL STREET in all of France:

the Cours Mirabeau in the town of Aix.

Outdoor cafes line the sides of the street, while a canopy of

interlocking trees covers everything.  Now we're - MOVING,

DOWN THE STREET, towards a CAFE, where a DAPPER GENT sits,

sipping a mineral water.  The Gent has a SATCHEL at his feet.

Now - A JEEP pulls up to a nearby corner and idles in

neutral.  The Dapper Gent throws some bills on the table and

gets up, crossing to - The Jeep.  A door opens, and the

Dapper Gent, carrying his satchel, gets into the jeep, which

drives off as we -

CUT TO:

INT. JEEP - SAME TIME

Gregor and the Dapper Gent drive in silence for minute, down

the length of the Cours Mirabeau.

The Dapper Gent also has an accent, a much thicker one than

Gregor's; it's an accent that places the Gent as a resident

of what used to be called the Soviet Union.

Gregor, still driving, takes out a SILENCED PISTOL, and the

Dapper Gent reaches for his own piece.

The Dapper Gent loweres his hand, leaving his gun in his coat.

Gregor pulls the van to a curb.

GREGOR & THE GENT'S POV: THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD - A GROUP OF

CHILDREN are playing.

We find one particular LITTLE GIRL, around eight, holding the

end of a jump rope, wearing a light blue dress.  She's

breathtakingly beautiful, and now - Gregor raises his

silenced pistol, as if to shoot her.

Gregor pulls the trigger, as he does so the Dapper Gent jogs

his arm, and we hear the soft thwpfft of the silenced shot

just as the shot goes off - Missing its mark, harmlessly

shooting into a tree, causing a SINGLE LEAF to float to the

ground behind the playing children.  Nobody notices a thing.

BEAT.  The Dapper Gent is visibly shaken, because there is no

doubt that Gregor would have killed the Girl if the Gent

hadn't ruined his aim.

Gregor leaves his gun dangling in the air a moment longer than

necessary and then starts the jeep as we -

CUT TO:

EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD OUTSIDE OF AIX - NIGHT

A FULL MOON casts a silver light over a field of wild grass.

A soft wind blows, and the grass moves gently from side to

side.  Now - Gregor's JEEP glides down this road as we MOVE

THROUGH TO -

INT. THE JEEP - SAME TIME

Gregor smiles -- he's been waiting for this.  He pulls the

jeep over and looks at the Dapper Gent.

The Dapper Gent looks down, and sure enough, the edge of the

Briefcase sticks out beneath the seat.

With a laugh the Dapper Gent hands his satchel to Gregor,

whose eyes literally dance with the prospect of his reward.

He can't help himself, he opens the satchel and there it is -

COLD HARD CASH in large bills, enough for Gregor to live like

a prince for quite some time.  Gregor sucks in an involuntary

breath and then looks back up to see - The Dapper Gent hasn't

reached for the Briefcase.  Instead he's taken out his gun,

and it's only inches from Gregor's head.

The Dapper Gent yanks out the Briefcase, and as he does -

THE SEVERED HAND comes whipping out along with it, still

attached by the handcuff chain.  The Hand flies up in the

Dapper Gent's face, and we notice that the Hand is starting

to rot -- it's bloated and swelling and horrific and it

scares the shit out of the Dapper Gent, who drops his gun and

fumbles with the Briefcase as - THWPFFT...we hear the sound

of another silenced shot as we -

SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. OUTSIDE THE JEEP - SAME TIME

A DARK STAIN splashes against the passenger side window of

the jeep.  Seconds later - The door swings open, and the

Dapper Gent's body plunks out onto the ground.  A moment

later, something wet and viscous plops down on the face of

the Gent as the jeep drives off.  Now - We HOLD FOR A BEAT on

the Dapper Gent's dead body, which lies in the silver

moonlight, blood running out from beneath him, while the

Severed Hand palms the Gent's face, fingers splayed out

around his head.  Now - We HEAR the sound of PHONE TONES.

And not just any phone...

INT. THE JEEP - SAME TIME

Gregor finishes punching a number into his CELL PHONE.  We

hear a single ring on the other end of the phone before it is

picked up.

BEAT.  The Phone Voice doesn't respond for a moment -- whoever

this is they didn't expect to hear from Gregor.  The Voice

switches to English.

BEAT.

The Phone Voice says something unintelligible in Russian, cut

off by Gregor as he angrily snaps off his cell phone and we -

CUT TO:

INT. THE CHEAP APARTMENT - DAWN

Larry snores on the couch, while Deirdre sleeps in a sleeping

bag on the floor.  Vincent sits in a ratty easy chair, feet

propped on an overturned crate, dozing lightly.  Suddenly -

Vincent's eyes open, warily, as if something has changed in

the room.  He looks around - No Sam.  Vincent gets up, takes

out his gun, and silently gets to his feet.  He moves down a

long hall and - No Sam.  Now, like a cat, Vincent moves into -

THE BATHROOM: pitch black.  He moves in, swipes the string of

the overhead light and - nothing.  Nobody's here.  The only

place left is the front door, and now Vincent approaches.  He

opens the door, gun still at ready, and moves out into -

INT. THE LANDING OUTSIDE - SAME TIME

This is a small building.  There is no other apartment on

the floor.  At the far end of the landing, there is a small

ladder which leads up to -

THE ROOF.  And the door which leads to the roof is flapping

in a light wind.

EXT. THE ROOF - SAME TIME

Vincent bursts onto the roof, gun straight out, finger on the

trigger, only to find - Sam is there, his gun pointed at

Vincent.  A BEAT, then both men give little laughs and put

their weapons away, like Samurai so trained in combat that

they know when it's safe to relax.

In answer Sam takes out Vincent's pack of cigarettes and

tosses them back to him.  Vincent looks almost delighted at

this.

Sam considers for a minute, and then takes one.  Vincent does

so as well, and he searches for his lighter, which he can't

seem to find, because - Sam has it, and he lights their

cigarettes, and then hands the lighter back to Vincent.

BEAT.  The two men smoke in silence, looking out at -

THE CURVED SHORELINE OF NICE -

Which glitters with thousands of lights from the apartment

buildings, and a thousand more from the cars that travel on

the road that leads into town: the Promenade des Anglais.

BACK ON Sam and Vincent.

This conversation might have gone further, but it is

interrupted when Deirdre pokes her head up onto the roof.

EXT. THE HIGHWAY - LATER - NIGHT

A car we haven't seen before, a CITROEN, hums up the French

highway in the night, along on the road.  It's a postcard

moment, but only for a moment.

INT. THE CITROEN - SAME TIME

Deirdre is driving, and Larry -- much to his chagrin -- is in

the passenger seat, watching her every move.

IN THE BACK SEAT -

Sam and Vincent have a MAP spread out.  Vincent is tracing

Gregor's route so far, and we follow his RED MAGIC MARKER as

it traces a line up the highway.

Sam runs his finger along the length of the highway on the

map.  Destination: Paris.

EXT. THE TOWN OF ORANGE - DAY

Orange, pronounced "Au-Ronge", is a mid-sized town of fifty

thousand souls.  It is small, charming, quaint, and it has

one particular thing that no other town in France can claim -

AN ANCIENT ROMAN THEATER that has been painstakingly

restored.  We see this Roman Theater from the outside, as we

MOVE THROUGH the streets of the town, to the TOWN SQUARE.

It's packed -- every seat in every outdoor cafe is filled

with a tourist having breakfast.  This normally quiet place

explodes one month out of the year, when an internationally

famous music festival is held in the Roman Theater.  We come

upon -

A TABLE OF AMERICAN TOURISTS: a Family.  Dad is angry at Mom.

Mom and Dad continue their discussion, but we've left them

behind, MOVING THROUGH the seats and cafes until we get to a

cafe on the outskirts of the Town Square.  Here, in the most

removed table in the entire Square, we find Gregor sitting in

the shadow of the trellis.  Unless you're on top of him you

can't see him, but he can see everything perfectly.  His cell

phone sits on the table in front of him -- he picks it up and

starts to punch in a number.

CUT TO:

EXT. A REST STOP ON THE HIGHWAY - MEANWHILE

THE CITROEN is parked among a number of other cars.  Sam is

sleeping in the back seat, while Vincent is seen on an

outdoor pay phone at the other end of the parking lot.

Deirdre and Larry sit at a nearby picnic table, eating French

fast food, which we get a good look at as we - PAN THE LENGTH

OF THE TABLE, which is covered with pasta, grilled sausages

with dijon mustard, really good fried potatoes.

In fact, everything that's on this table is so far beyond the

imagination of your average American truck driver that Larry

can't contain himself.  He's stuffing himself, washing

everything down with the wine which is also sold at these

road-side rest stops.  Deirdre drinks coffee.

CUT AWAY TO REVEAL: Vincent -

Who has finished his phone call and returned to join them.

Vincent raps lightly on the car window next to Sam's head --

Sam's eyes shoot open: a light sleeper.  All eyes are on

Vincent, who waits for a BEAT before he reveals his news.

EXT. THE TOWN SQUARE - A LITTLE LATER - DAY

Gregor is seated where we saw him last -- at the little table

in the corner cafe.  He's been here for hours, observing the

Town Square, and now, he finally sees what he's been looking

for - TWO MEN, definitely not tourists here for the music,

have entered the Square -- everything about these guys

screams GUNMEN.  Now, as Gregor watches - A PUNKED-OUT TEEN

comes up to the men and hands them a small envelope.  The

Gunmen look around the Square, trying to see where Gregor is,

but he's too far back in the shadows.  The Gunmen ask the

Teen a question, to which the Teen can only shrug his

shoulders.  Now - The Teen walks away, leaving the Gunmen to

open the envelope and look at its contents, which are quickly

read.  From OFF SCREEN we hear the sound of Gregor punching

in a number on his cell phone.  Simultaneously, the Gunmen

finish reading the instructions Gregor has sent them, and

turn around to face - A PAY PHONE.  The phone rings, and one

of the Gunmen goes to pick it up.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET - MEANWHILE

The Citroen pulls into town and slows to a crawl, cruising

the streets, looking for Gregor.

INT. THE CITROEN - SAME TIME

Vincent stares out of the window and sees something that

causes him to swear under his breath in French.  It's -

The Gunmen walking down the street.

Sam frowns: he also seems to recognize at least one of the

gunmen.  None of the others in the car notice Sam's reaction,

but we do.  The Gunmen are heading straight for -

EXT. THE ANCIENT ROMAN THEATER - MEANWHILE

THE MID-AFTERNOON SUN shines down on the open air Roman

Theater.  The theater itself is almost two thousand year

old.  A semi-circle of seats surrounds a huge Stage Wall, a

massive structure which is one of the best preserved of its

kind in the world.  THE GUNMEN enter at the bottom of the

theater, holding ticket stubs.  They are with a Tour Group

led by an ANCIENT GEEZER who speaks in rapid-fire French.  As

the tour moves off to see the Stage Wall, the Gunmen hang

back and then separate from the crowd.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE THEATER - SAME TIME

THE CITROEN sits at a curb.  Larry sits behind the wheel of

the car, the getaway driver with the motor running.  Vincent

and Deirdre are already walking towards the Theater.  Sam

stays behind for a second to say something to Larry.

And on that note Sam follows after Vincent and Deirdre.

Larry doesn't notice it, but - THE WATCHER has found them.

He's a block or so away, wearing a two-day stubble of beard

and hugging the shadows of back alley.  Cradled in one hand,

barely visible but ominously present: his knife, which for

one moment catches a glint of sun that hits our eyes as we -

CUT TO:

EXT. INSIDE THE ROMAN THEATER - MEANWHILE

The Gunmen have reached a point about midway up the coliseum-

like staircase.  Behind them we can see the Tour Group,

standing on the stage, being lectured to by the Ancient

Geezer.  In front of them the Gunmen find -

AN EXIT which leads to an interior hall.  Inside the exit

it's dark, while a bright sun falls down on the Gunmen.  They

look into the dark, unable to see a thing, while a voice

come at them from out of the dark.

IN THE HALL -

ON GREGOR.  It's dark in here.  There are no lights, no

torches.  From the dark in here, he can look out and see -

THE GUNMEN, who make plain targets, backlit as they are by

the sun.  Now we CUT BACK AND FORTH between these two ANGLES,

and it becomes clear that Gregor has chosen wisely -- he can

see his quarry, but they can't see him.

EDVARD, the more dangerous looking of the two Gunmen

responds.

A GUN COMES INTO FRAME, trigger cocked, the barrel placed to

Gregor's temple.

Gregor stiffens, as we PULL BACK ON Sam, who has snuck up on

Gregor and gotten the drop on him.

CUT TO THE GUNMEN'S POV: Looking into the Tunnel - It's dark,

they can't see a thing, but they've heard Sam's voice and

they know something's wrong.

CUT AWAY TO REVEAL: Deirdre -

She's snuck up on the Gunmen, weapon drawn.

The Gunmen reach for their pieces and as they do -

CUT AWAY TO REVEAL: Vincent - And his piece is also out --

the Gunmen are trapped, and they know it.  Now we notice that

- The Ancient Geezer and his Tour Group are coming towards

us.  Meanwhile, back in -

THE TUNNEL -

Sam is grilling Gregor furiously, his gun still to Gregor's

head.

Suddenly Gregor runs forward, towards the exit.  Sam runs

after him, tackling him just as they reach - THE OUTSIDE,

where the two men roll into plain sight of - The Gunmen, who

are still covered by Vincent and Deirdre.  Now we notice -

That the Ancient Geezer and his Tour Group are really close,

no more than ten yards away, as - Sam has Gregor pinned face

first on the ancient stone of the theater.  He looks up at

the others, and that's when it happens - Edvard looks at Sam

and recognizes him.

A SLOW MOTION BEAT.

Vincent and Deirdre don't know what to make of this, their

heads turn to look at Sam, and in this instant - The Tour

Group walks into their midst and - The 2nd Gunman reaches for

his piece and - Sam FIRES his gun at the 2nd Gunman, and with

the sharp report of the pistol we move back to REAL TIME, as -

The Crowd panics, screaming, and now Edvard is reaching for

his weapon, as - Sam shoots again, killing the 2nd Gunman,

and now - The Crowd is still screaming and running as -

Gregor shoves through the crowd into the exit, as -

Deirdre pushes through the crowd, and now she's made it into

the tunnel.  Now we go -

OUTSIDE THE THEATER -

Where Larry has heard the shot -- his piece is drawn, but

he's been ordered to stay in the car.  In frustration he

slams on the steering wheel, as we see that - Behind Larry,

the Watcher is slowly closing in, knife poised to strike as

we go back -

INTO THE THEATER -

Edvard tries to get to the exit, but there are too many

Tourists in his way, and he proceeds to shoot several of

them, including the Dad we saw earlier.  Seconds later,

Edvard has vanished into the tunnels, and now - Vincent and

Sam meet in the middle of the crowd.  There is time for a

QUICK BEAT, while Vincent glares at Sam.

And now Sam runs into the tunnel, after the others, leaving

Vincent for a fraction of a second to sigh, and then follow

Sam into -

THE TUNNELS -

It's like being in the tunnels and ramps of a sporting arena.

Except that everything here is made of stone and the only

light comes from the sun which streams in through the exit

openings which are spaced far enough apart that they provide

just barely enough light for us to see.  Now we do a SERIES

OF QUICK CUTS - Sam running, followed by - Vincent, while -

Edvard takes a wrong turn down a dark hall and comes to a

dead end.  He turns around, looking for a way out as - Gregor

sees the final exit ahead of him as we go -

OUT IN THE STREET - Larry is still behind the wheel of the

Citroen, anxiously looking at the exit, not realizing that -

The Watches is almost on him, and now we're back -

IN THE TUNNELS -

Deirdre comes running around a corner, and now she's almost

reached the exit as -

OUT IN THE STREET -

Gregor hits the street running.  He doesn't notice the

Citroen parked ahead, because he's never seen it before, but

as he runs by -

The car door swings open and Gregor runs straight into it.

He smashes into the door and falls to the ground, injured.

Strong Hands reach out of the car and pull him in.  It's the

Watcher, and let's give him a name now because he needs one:

SEAMUS REILLY.  Seated in the front seat is - A very dead

Larry.  Seamus has cut his throat from ear to ear.

THROUGH THE BACK WINDOW - Deirdre appears, exiting the

theater and running towards the Citroen as we go back to -

INT. THE TUNNELS - SAME TIME

Vincent, gun drawn, moves warily down one of the tunnels.

Outside we can hear the dim sound of an approaching siren.

Vincent turns a corner and - A GUN jams itself into his face.

It's Edvard.

Edvard's finger tightens around the trigger, when -

Edvard is startled by the sound of Sam's voice.  Even as he

squeezes off the shot, Edvard turns to look at Sam, and as he

does so, Vincent strikes out at the gun, sending the shot

awry, causing it to - RICOCHET wildly, whining around the

room, until it - Rips through Sam's side, a nasty wound but

not fatal, as - Edvard tries to fire another shot but it's

too late, because - Vincent fires a single shot to the head

that kills Edvard.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE THEATER - MEANWHILE

Deirdre has reached the Citroen.  She looks in and sees

Seamus and Gregor.  Lastly she looks at the dead Larry.  She

sighs in disgust, but otherwise doesn't react as if

surprised.

SCANT SECOND LATER -

Larry's body hits the street as the Citroen drives off,

Deirdre behind the wheel just as - Sam and Vincent run out of

the theater, with Vincent helping a wounded Sam who bleeds

from the wound in his side.  They arrive at the street only

to see - Larry, lying dead in the street, even as the Citroen

speeds away from them, turning the corner before they can

even think to raise their guns.

Sam isn't even capable of saying that much -- he just stares

after the departed Citroen with a look on his face unlike any

we've seen in the film: "how the hell did that happen?"  But

there's no time to ponder this because they've been joined by

- A COP.  He's a local guy, he directs traffic and busts

drunks in the town square -- and he's scared shitless,

holding his gun in both hands, trying not to tremble, as he

stares back at - TWO GUNS, Sam's and Vincent's, and they're

both pointed at the Cop.  LONG BEAT.  In the way off distance,

another siren can just be heard.  Sam and Vincent glare at

the Cop, who strains with all his might to control himself,

but he can't because Sam and Vincent are death waiting to be

served.  The cop knows he has three seconds to make up his

mind.  Two.  One.  The Cop puts his gun on the ground and

steps back, raising his hands in the air.  Now - Sam and

Vincent stumble into the street, and are instantly almost hit

by - A CAR speeding around the corner, its Driver oblivious

to what's going on.  The car screeches to a halt, and the

Driver curses loudly in French.  And then the next thing the

Driver knows - A Gun is in his face.  The door is yanked open

and the Driver is yanked out, as we -

CUT TO:

EXT. A BACK ROAD - LATER/EARLY EVENING

The town of Orange is just visible below us as the

commandeered Car drives up into the hills.  Vincent is behind

the wheel, while the wounded Sam sits in the passenger seat.

Gritting his teeth, Sam peels back his shirt to get a look at

- THE WOUND, and it's small but bad -- the ricochet ripped a

small raw hole in Sam's side.  The wound bleeds, but

moderately so -- no major organs or arteries have been hit.

BEAT.  Sam takes out his own pack of cigarettes, offers one

to Vincent and takes another for himself.  They smoke for a

second, before Vincent speaks.

Sam gives Vincent a look and shakes his head in disbelief --

Vincent's loyalty and sense of honor is something he's never

seen before, and Sam can only smoke in silence and consider

this as we -

CUT TO:

INT. A CHEAP BACK ROOM - NIGHT

A PEEPHOLE slides open, and we look through it into -

INT. AN ADJOINING ROOM

where Gregor sits, bound and gagged in a chair, his eyes wide

with fright.  Now - The Peephole snicks shut, and Deirdre

turns to face Seamus Reilly.

Seamus's taunt works: Deirdre whips out her gun and puts it

to his head.

Seamus glares at Deirdre for a moment, and she glares back at

him until he starts to laugh.

Deirdre glares a moment more and then puts away her gun.

Deirdre gives Seamus a look to make sure this last point is

clear and we -

CUT TO:

EXT. A FARMHOUSE - THE COUNTRY - NIGHT

The Stolen Car parks behind a BARN, and Sam and Vincent get

out.  Waiting for them is a friend of Vincent's - JEAN-

PIERRE, a Frenchman in his forties, hearty, burly, friendly.

INT. THE FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - LATER/NIGHT

SURGICAL IMPLEMENTS - Are laid out on a clean cloth.

Scalpel, forceps, a clamp, a sponge, medical thread and

needles.  We PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Sam, stretched out on the

kitchen table.  Around him we see - Vincent and Jean-Pierre,

who are wearing rubber gloves and examining Sam's wound.

Jean-Pierre holds a mirror up so that Sam can see what's

going on.  Sam, with his medical training, is treating

himself.

Sam is in terrible pain, but necessity dictates that he focus

on what's going on so that he can talk Vincent through this

next procedure.

During this next sequence, we CUT BACK AND FORTH between

Sam's reactions to the surgery, and the mirror itself where

he's watching.

Vincent pours a healthy splash of rubbing alcohol onto the

wound and - Sam grits his teeth as the pain explodes up his

central nervous system.

Jean-Pierre does as Sam says, wiping away the blood that

keeps filling the wound.  Throughout the procedure Jean-

Pierre will do this; every time the sponge is saturated he

squeezes the excess blood into - A BUCKET which sits on the

floor, slowly filling up with drippings from the sponge.

Vincent picks up the clamp.

Vincent attaches the clamp to Sam's wound.  It takes perhaps

fifteen seconds, and everyone of those seconds is agonizing

for Sam.  He sweats, he grits his teeth, he grunts the

smallest of grunts.  But he doesn't move.  Finally Vincent is

done.

Vincent probes the wound with the forceps.  This takes

probably thirty seconds, and it hurts even more then when the

clamp was attached.

Several times - Vincent seems to have the bullet in his

grasp, but it slips, and each time it slips - Sam makes the

smallest of noises, as if to indicate the level of the pain.

Finally - The forceps firmly grasp the bullet, and with a

single tug, Vincent extracts it.

He tosses the bullet through the air, and we FOLLOW IT IN

SLOW MOTION as it lands in - A SAUCER, which sits on the

kitchen counter.  We're back in REAL TIME, as the bullet

rolls around the plate for a second before coming to a halt.

Now - Sam breathes the hugest of sighs, and his face relaxes.

Instantly, Vincent puts a lighted cigarette in Sam's mouth,

and he drags deeply on it.

And that's exactly what he does.

A TIME CUT TO:

INT. FARMHOUSE LIVING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Vincent and Jean-Pierre sit on easy chairs.  An open bottle

of wine sits between them, a FIRE burns in the fireplace, and

they smoke in a contented silence for a moment.  When they

speak, it is in FRENCH, with ENGLISH SUBTITLES.

Both men stare back into the fireplace and we HOLD FOR A BEAT

before we -

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. THE FARM - KITCHEN - DAWN

Sam is awake.  Pale from the loss of blood, he moves softly

around the kitchen, searching professionally for something,

giving the moment a slightly dangerous feel because he seems

so intent on what he's doing and then he finds it - THE

COFFEE.

TEN MINUTES LATER -

A stream of Hot Coffee migles with a stream of Steamed Milk.

EXT. THE FARMHOUSE PORCH - SUNRISE

A STEAMING CUT OF COFFEE sits in Sam's hands as he lights a

cigarette to go with the coffee.  He sits on an ancient

chair, smoking in silence, looking out at - THE WOODS around

the house, and this place is postcard-beautiful, the French

Farmhouse you see only in pictures.  But Sam's mind is

elsewhere, he's staring into space, lost in thought.

ANOTHER ANGLE - Jean-Pierre stands in the open front door of

the farmhouse, with a cup of coffee.  Now, Jean-Pierre moves

out to join Sam, sitting down on another chair opposite him.

A QUICK CUT TO:

INSIDE THE FARMHOUSE

Where Vincent has just poured himself a cup of coffee and lit

a very satisfying cigarette when he hears the voices from

outside.

Vincent looks up when he hears his name and he moves towards

the sound of the voices.

BACK ON THE PORCH -

And now Jean-Pierre produces a LONG BARRELED REVOLVER which

he places loosely in his lap -- a gesture which seems to say,

"you'd better explain things to my satifaction or we're

gonna have a problem."  Sam notices the weapon, but he

doesn't react overtly.

BEAT.  Sam looks at the Revolver again.

QUICK CUT TO: Vincent - Who stands inside the house, out of

sight, but not out of ear shot.  He's listening to

everything, and we notice that Vincent has taken out his

own gun.

BACK ON Jean-Pierre and Sam.  By now Jean-Pierre has raised

the pistol.  He doesn't point it at Sam, but his finger cocks

the hammer.

LONG BEAT.  Something in Sam's speech touches Jean-Pierre.

He relaxes his finger on the hammer.

BACK ON Vincent - Who relaxes his grip on his gun. BACK ON

Sam and Jean-Pierre - And we're PULLING BACK, AWAY from the

Farmhouse, which glows in the morning sun as we -

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. A PARIS STREET - DAY

A BLACK COMPACT CAR sits in front of a Parisian Post Office.

Inside the car, behind the wheel, we see Deirdre.  Now,

coming out of the Post Office, we see - Gregor and Seamus

Reilly.  Seamus has a coat slung over his arm, hiding the gun

which he keeps pressed to Gregor's side.  There's no sign of

the Briefcase as Seamus and Gregor get into -

INT. THE CAR - SAM TIME

THUNK!  The door slams shut.  Gregor and Seamus are in the

back seat.  Almost instantly Seamus angrily snaps a pair of

handcuffs on Gregor.  Immediately, Deirdre pulls out.

Suddenly Seamus seems to lose it.  He grabs Gregor and slams

a gun against his head.

BEAT.  For one tension-filled moment, we think Seamus is

going to splash Gregor's brains all over the place.  But then

he smiles, puts his weapon away, and pats Gregor gently on

the face.

Gregor is beyond speech -- he can only whimper.

Seamus smiles a smile that is more than a little bit

sadistic.  Neither Gregor nor Deirdre smiles in return as we -

CUT TO:

EXT. ANOTHER STREET - PARIS - DAY

THE EIFFEL TOWER fills our eyes.  And then we PULL BACK TO

REVEAL that it's a tacky, flyblown poster on a dingy street.

And now we're -

MOVING DOWN the Street, until we come to a store whose sign

advertises in English - HONG KONG MOVIES.  The windows of the

store are filled with posters.  We MOVE THROUGH TO

INT. THE STORE - SAME TIME

TONY SIMON, an expatriate black American, runs this place and

lives above it.  His shelves are lined with action films made

in the Far East.  Tony knows everything there is to know

about the films he sells -- but he also knows quite a bit

about what's going on in the Parisian Underworld.  he's a

professional information broker.  Right now he's talking to a

CUSTOMER in perfect French, with English Subtitles.

Tony looks up and sees something that catches his attention.

Vincent and Sam have entered the store.  Sam's ability to be

back on his feet in such a short time is amazing -- but we

can see that he's not the same guy he was at the start of the

film.  what he does from here on in he does by sheer force of

will.  Now - Tony moves to join them, and the conversation

immediately turns to English.

Tony's office, it turns out, is the area behind the COUNTER.

Tony raises a section of the counter that allows him to get

to the other side, and then he closes it behind him.

Vincent checks out the store before he starts speaking.  The

place is empty except for - The single Customer Tony was just

talking to.  The Customer is still considering the two films

Tony was showing him.

The Customer approaches the counter.  He has both tapes with

him.

EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE - A FEW MINUTES LATER

The Customer exits, smiling and carrying his tapes -- what a

great fucking deal he just got!  A few seconds later, Tony

comes out and locks up the store front.  He crosses the

street towards -

INT. A FALAFEL JOINT - A FEW MINUTES AFTER THAT

A HUGE FALAFEL drips lettuce and tahini sauce from its end.

We PULL BACK ON - Tony, who's just taken a bite out of the

falafel.  He sits at a table in the back with Vincent and

Sam.

Tony scribbles something on a piece of paper.

Sam reaches for the piece of paper, but Vincent puts his hand

on top of it.

Sam smiles slightly and rises from the table, moving towards

the exit.  Behind him in rapid-fire French, Tony and Vincent

are now discussing the price of the information.  They are

both loud and abusive, and obviously they're enjoying

themselves immensely.

EXT. THE FALAFEL SHOP - A LITTLE LATER - DAY

Vincent exits the shop and gets into -

INT. THE PEUGEOT

Where Sam sits in the passenger seat as Vincent slides behind

the wheel.  Vincent tosses Sam a piece of paper.

Vincent gives Sam another piece of paper.

Vincent starts the car and we -

CUT TO:

EXT. A PARIS STREET - LATER - AFTERNOON

The Peugeot sits, parked at a cub, a discreet distance from -

AN APARTMENT HOUSE: 35 Rue de Glacon.  We PUSH IN on the -

INT. THE PEUGEOT - LATE AFTERNOON

A PIECE OF PAPER scarwled with the same address: 35 de

Glacon.  We PULL BACK TO REVEAL -

Sam, holding this paper and looking out at the apartment

complex.

BEAT.  Vincent wants to know something important.

LONG BEAT.  Sam considers what to say, and then decides he

owes Vincent the truth.

THEIR POV: Through the Windsheild - Deirdre exits the

apartment building.

Now Deirdre is followed by Seamus and Gregor.

BACK ON Sam and Vincent.

Vincent and Sam exchange a look -- now they both figure it

out.

CUT TO:

INT. THE POST OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

A HAND signs a receipt, and we PULL BACK TO REVEAL Gregor at

a counter, signing for his package, which slides across the

counter.  It's the Briefcase, although it's been wrapped in

BROWN PAPER for its journey through the French Postal System.

Now we see that - Seamus is still right beside Gregor; is, in

face, almost on top of him, with a hand in his coat pocket

which lets us know where his gun is.  Now - The two men start

to move towards the exit as we -

CUT TO:

EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE - A MINUTE LATER/LATE AFTERNOON

The Black Compact Car idles at a nearby curb, with Deirdre

behind the wheel.  She's staring so intently at the front of

the post office, that she's surprised when a SHADOW falls

across her.  She looks up to see - Sam, standing next to the

car.  Deirdre starts to reach for her weapon, but Sam cuts

her off with a word.

Something in his voice conveys enough of a threat that she

backs off.  Now she and Sam exchange a long look.

CUT AWAY TO: Gregor and Seamus are leaving the post office.

By now, Seamus has taken the package away from Gregor.

Unseen by these two men - Vincent is approaching from the

side, on an intercept course, his hand inside a bag which he

carries with him.  Now - Deirdre turns and shoots Sam a look.

He's still watching her keenly, and we can see that she's

aching to reach for her piece, but she can't because Sam is

still on her like a hawk.

He pulls back the folds of his suit jacket, revealing his

gun, putting his hand comfortably on the pistol grip.

Vincent is closing on Gregor and Seamus, another ten seconds

and he'll have them.

Now - Deirdre looks back at Sam, then back at the situation

developing in front of her, and then suddenly - She slams the

car into gear and drives off, tires squealing while - Sam

pulls his piece, sighting down the barrel and - He can't do

it, can't shoot Deirdre.  Now - The sound of the car alerts

Seamus, who turns in time to see - Vincent, who is raising

the bag wrapped around his hand as - The car flies directly

at - Vincent, who if forced to jump out of the way even as he

pulls the trigger of the gun hidden within the bag.  The end

of the bag explodes in a burst of fire, but the shots are off

the mark - Missing Seamus and Gregor as - Vincent rolls out

of the way, just in time, while - Deirdre brakes the car to a

screaming halt, as Seamus pushes Gregor in ahead of him and

then gets in.  Seconds later, the car pulls out, even as -

Sam drives up in the Peugeot to Vincent, who picks himself up

off the ground and leaps into the car.  The last thing we

hear is the sound of Sam's Voice as the Peugeot drives off.

CUT TO:

INT./EXT. - CAR CHASE MONTAGE

During this SEQUENCE, we'll JUMP CUT BETWEEN the two cars and

the streets they travel through.  Now - The Black Compact Car

flies down a small street, followed closely by - The Peugeot,

where Sam is driving as Vincent tries to steady his gun to

get a clear shot at the other Car.

INSIDE THE PEUGEOT -

IN THE COMPACT CAR -

Where Deirdre is driving for dear life, while Seamus is

freaking out.

IN THE PEUGEOT -

IN THE COMPACT -

OUT IN THE STREET -

The two cars SLAM through the traffic, heading for a HIGHWAY

RAMP which appears now perhaps two blocks away.

IN THE PEUGEOT -

IN THE COMPACT -

OUT IN THE STREET -

THE TWO CARS have reached the highway ramp, and as first one,

and then the other pulls onto the highway, we PULL BACK AND

UP TO REVEAL:

THE PERIFERIQUE -

The massive and confusing highway system which encircles the

city of Paris.  Right away we notice that this entrance ramp

leads to a traffic circle, filled with various off ramps

which lead to no less than four different sections of the

Periferique.

IN THE PEUGEOT -

IN THE COMPACT -

IN THE PEUGEOT -

IN THE COMPACT

ON THE PERIFERIQUE -

THE PEUGEOT cruising on an upper part of the traffic circle,

while down below them - THE COMPACT turns towards one of the

roadways.

IN THE PEUGEOT -

Sam looks up and sees - Three possible ramps: one to the

right, one to the center, and one to the - Left.  At the last

second he takes the left turn as we go back to -

IN THE COMPACT CAR -

Where Seamus has turned from lecturing Deirdre to threatening

Gregor.  Seamus holds the package in one hand and his gun in

the other.

ZING-SHATTER!  A BULLET blows a hole in their back windshield

as - The Peugeot is catching up, and Vincent is leaning out

of his window, firing away.  Now - Seamus turns to Deirdre.

Deirdre swings the wheel wildly, and the Compact takes a

screaming turn, followed by - The Peugeot, and now they're

both speeding towards another junction, where several other

roadways of the Periferique run together.  Now we see that -

Seamus is returning Vincent's fire, even as - The Junction

approaches, and now - Seamus screams at Deirdre.

Deirdre swerves to the right only to discover that she's now

on an -

EXIT RAMP, going against heavy traffic.  Now -

Deirdre swerves her car around, side-swiping several cars,

but avoiding a major crash while - The Peugeot follows along,

and now -

One of the cars that Deirdre side-swiped careens wildly down

the ramp, crashing into - The Peugeot, which grinds to a halt

as Vincent and Sam bounce forward in their seats, restrained

by their seatbelts.  The car has stalled, and Sam has to

start her up again and slam it into gear before following

after - The Compact, which now has a lead of perhaps fifty

yards -- but at least it's possible for the Peugeot to follow

after the Compact, because it's the only car on the highway

ahead of them that's GOING THE WRONG WAY, and now we - PULL

BACK, LOOKING DOWN FROM ABOVE, and the two cars are flying

through the rush-hour traffic, going the wrong way, and now -

The Peugeot is gaining ground as Sam turns to Vincent.

He puts the cigarette in Sam's mouth and as he does - The

Peugeot weaves in and out of the traffic, gaining ground on

the Compact, and now - SCREEEEECCHHH!!!!  About fifteen cars

pile up, crashing into one another, and yet somehow - The

Compact Car emerges from the pile up unscathed, and Seamus

breathes a hugh sigh of relief.

The Peugeot has also managed to avoid the pile-up, and it's

back on their tail.

And now the Peugeot SLAMS into the side of the Compact Car,

and as it does - Seamus opens fire with his gun, even as -

Vincent unloads the better part of a clip as - Glass shatters

in both cars, and now Deirdre looks up to see -

A FORK IN THE ROAD, and the left side of the fork is closed

off, blocked by - A SERIOUS CONCRETE BARRICADE, and the

Compact Car is headed right for it, and now -

Sam has the Peugeot pinned right to the side of the Compact

Car, metal against metal, a scream of steel as the Barricade

rushes straight at them and at the last second - Deirdre

slams on the brakes as -

Seamus fires one last shot that - blows out the window in

front of Sam's eyes, causing Sam to - Jerk the wheel of the

Peugeot wildly, spinning out of control onto the exit ramp as

Gregor reaches over and unbuckles Seamus's seatbelt right as -

The Compact Car slams into the Barricade and CRASHES, and

we're in SLOW MOTION as -

Deirdre is driven forward by the force of the impact, but

there's a driver's side air bag, and it explodes, cushioning

her, even as -

Seamus is hurled form the car, crashing through the

windshield and flying through the air as -

The Compact Car flips over and over and over while -

Gregor, who is wearing his seatbelt, hangs on for dear life

to the Briefcase, which he grabbed back from Seamus before

the crash, and now -

Seamus hits the ground with a terrible thud, his face

sliced to ribbons by the windshield, but somehow still alive

as -

Sam tries to control the Peugeot, which is in a spin on the

exit ramp as -

Gregor kicks open the back door and slides out of the Car,

carrying the Briefcase with him, as -

Deirdre struggles to free herself from the wreck, which is

now - On fire, and now -

Sam has managed to stop the Peugeot, but it's too late to go

back, because -

A VERITABLE FLEET OF COP CARS is now closing on the accident,

and it's too late to turn around, and even as -

Deirdre manages to pull herself out of the wreck, it -

EXPLODES into a ball of fire, and the blast wave of fire -

Hits Seamus, knocking him down, covering him for a second,

even as - Deirdre hurls herself through the flames and comes

out - Rolling away with Seamus, who is now not only cut to

pieces, but his face is covered with some hideous burns.

Now Deirdre pulls Seamus over the side of the embankment,

right before the cops arrive, and the two of them roll/fall

almost thirty down a steep incline, even as -

Sam catches a quick glimpse of -

Gregor, scurrying away from the highway, carrying the

Briefcase, and now Sam has to gun his car and get gone,

because the Cops have reached -

The Wreck, which is quickly burning itself out, and as the

Cops look into the debris they see that -

THERE'S NOBODY LEFT.  Everybody's gone.

FADE OUT.

FADE IN ON:

INT. VINCENT'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A FRONT DOOR, guarded by about five heavy locks, opens and

Vincent and Sam enter.  Sam looks around and surveys the

apartment.

ANOTHER ANGLE - And we see the rest of the apartment: there's

practically nothing here.  A table with a couple of chairs, a

fridge.  An open door leads to a bedroom with a small, spare

bed and a nightstand with a cheap lamp.

The two men crass the room towards - A METAL CABINET which is

tucked into a nook in the wall - VINCENT'S HAND turns a heavy-

duty COMBINATION LOCK and then: Click, the cabinet opens and

we see -- WEAPONS.  An endless cache of guns, knives,

explosives, surveillance devices, gun scopes -- you name it,

it's here.  Now Vincent's Hands reach into the cabinet and

start taking out weapons.  We PULL BACK ON -

Vincent, who gives the weapons to Sam.  Sam checks to make

sure the weapons are loaded and/or ready for use, and then

piles them, one on top of the other.

BEAT.  Sam can't say anything, because he knows that what

Vincent is saying is true.

Vincent thinks about this for a seoncd -- and then burst out

laughing as we -

CUT TO:

INT. ANOTHER CAR - MEANWHILE/NIGHT

Deirdre once behind the wheel.  The passenger seat next to

her is empty, but as she drives we can see her eyes as they

flick from the road in front of her, to the rearview mirror,

which reveals -

A glimpse of the HIDEOUS FACE of Seamus Reilly.  Crashing

through the windshield and the blast of fire have forever

changed the way he looks: his face is now a mass of oozing

wounds and burn tissue.  In his eyes we see the light of a

sick, twisted man who's gone over the edge.

BEAT.  Deirdre bristles at Seamus's words but says nothing.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CAR - SAME TIME

THE CAR zooms off into the night and as it does -

A LIGHT RAIN starts to fall and we -

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. A CHATEAU OUTSIDE OF PARIS - NIGHT

THE SAME RAIN falls, more of a steady mist than a rain.  The

mist GLEAMS electrically in the THOUSAND WATT LIGHTS which

shine from - THE CHATEAU.  Hundreds of years old, it sits far

back from its own MAIN GATE.  In front of the Chateau - ARMED

MEN.  Lots of them.  Whatever this place is, it's not one

that invites company.  Now we're - MOVING TOWARDS the

Chateau, and as we MOVE we get a glimpse of the surrounding

environment: ancient statues, sitting benches in private

gardens, small pools of fish -- you name it, this place has

it.  We hear VOICES, and they're talking in - RUSSIAN.

Heavy, thick Russian, punctuated with words like "Da!" and

"Nyet!" -- making it clear that we've reached the address of

the Russian Production Company.  BEHIND THE CHATEAU - MORE

GARDENS, more everything.  It's well-patrolled, but there

aren't quite as many guards back here as there are out front,

because bordering the chateau is a natural fotress -

A WOODS -

A forest, really.  Filled with ancient trees, almost mythic

in appearance, and for all the light of the chateau this

place is darkness visible -- light comes here and dies.  And

in this woods, looking out, we find - Vincent and Sam.

Heavily armed, they've just humped God knows how many miles

through the woods to get here.  Both men exhausted from the

walk -- Sam from his wound, Vincent from his smoking habit.

They collapse and Vincent takes out his cigarettes.  Even

though they're screened from the chateau back here, Sam

reaches over and takes the cigarettes out of Vincent's hands.

Vincent offers one to Sam, who declines with a shake of

his head.

INT. THE CHATEAU - MEANWHILE

ARMED RUSSIAN MOBSTERS everywhere -- a convention of the goon

squad.

MOVING THROUGH the Chateau itself, and from in here we see

the side of France we haven't yet seen in this film: culture.

Each room could be a museum, as we move through -

A GALLERY, filled with paintings by Renaissance Masters -

A PARLOR, with antique furniture, the youngest piece of which

is two hundred years old -

A BALLROOM, empty and barren, but lit by the dazzling light

of an exquisite chandelier -

A KITCHEN, where a cigarette smoking CHEF is putting the

finishing touches on what is perhaps the most amazing meal

you've ever seen.  Now - A SERVANT takes the tray and carries

it out to -

A DINING ROOM, and the table is set for a formal dinner for

twenty, with crystal and china at every place setting, and

yet the table is occupied by only one man -

MIKHAEL RACHEV, Russian Gangster Supreme, called Mikhi.  Now -

The Servant sets the food down in front of Mikhi, and as this

chief hood starts to eat a lonely and solitary dinner we PULL

BACK, MOVING DOWN the length of the way-too-long table.

EXT. THE CHATEAU WALLS - NIGHT

A TAXI pulls up to the Main Gate and Gregor gets out.

Attached to his wrist, by that same handcuff: the Briefcase.

Gregor is admitted by a Guard as we -

CUT TO:

INT. THE DINING ROOM/CHATEAU - A LITTLE LATER

Mikhi the Gangster is eating his dinner as Gregor is ushered

into the room.  THREE THUGS hang back behind Gregor, watching

to see what Mikhi wants.  Now -

Mikhi waves the Thugs out of the room, leaving Gregor alone

with the gangster.  Mikhi takes a last few bites of dinner as

he motions for Gregor to sit.

Gregor raises the Briefcase which is still attached to his

wrist via the handcuff.  Gregor rests the Briefcase on the

table.

The moment of truth.  Before this scene can develop any

further, a VOICE comes from Off Screen, and as the Voice

speaks, Gregor blanches.

ANOTHER ANGLE - Deirdre and Seamus have entered the room.

And we notice something unusual: nobody is alarmed (except

for Gregor, that is).  It's as if they were expected.

As Seamus speaks he walks through the room, examining the

valuable china and crystal, all the while moving inexorably

closer to Gregor.  His face is, if anything, even more

horrific than it was a short while ago, as his formerly fresh

wounds have started to scab over.

EXT. THE WOODS - MEANWHILE

Vincent's CIGARETTE is stubbed into a rock and the two men

rise with a slow purpose.  They exchange a look and then Sam

steps forward, leading the way

A WIDE ANGLE - THE BACK LAWN OF THE CHATEAU -

Pure Kurosawa.  The JAPANESE DRUM we've heard before starts

to play again as -

THE LONG SHADOWS of Sam and Vincent come out of the woods and

into the brilliant light of the back lawn.  For one minute

they stand still, and among the many weapons that Sam carries

is a long automatic rifle, strung over his back, and in the

SILHOUETTE for one minute it looks like a Samurai sword.  Now

the two men start to move across the lawn, hugging the

shadows of the various statues and hedges, trying to keep

from being discovered for as long as possible.

BACK IN THE DINING ROOM -

BEAT.  Nobody moves.  Nobody speaks.  Until finally -

Before this entirely too-weird scenario can play itself we go

back to -

THE BACK LAWN OF THE CHATEAU -

Sam and Vincent are closer to the Chateau, moving in stealth,

avoiding any entanglements and then Sam turns a corner and

comes face to face with - A GUARD, and his gun is aimed at

Sam's head: Sam's a dead man as we go -

BACK TO THE DINING ROOM

AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE splits the night, and everyone in the

room looks at one another, before Mikhi speaks.

BACK OUTSIDE THE CHATEAU -

The Guard who had Sam in his sights falls down, dead, shot by

- Vincent, whose smoking weapon is cradled in his arms.

Vincent smiles at Sam.

Sam smiles, but it's no time to get satisfied.  their

presence revealed, there's no point in moving quietly.  Sam

draws his weapons and as he and Vincent charge across the

lawn towards the Chateau while -

BACK IN THE DINING ROOM -

MORE GUNSHOTS from outside -- not a war, but enough to cause

serious alarm.  Deirdre, ever the soldier, draws her two

automatic pistols.

She nods at Gregor and his Briefcase, indicating what this

mutual interest is.  Then she turns and bolts the room, and

as she does we're -

BACK OUTSIDE THE CHATEAU -

Sam and Vincent are running along, hugging the ground and

whatever darkness they can find, while blind weapons fire

rips into the ground around them, Russian thugs not even sure

what they're shooting at, but shooting all the same as Sam

and Vincent hurtle towards -

A BACK ENTRANCE TO THE CHATEAU -

Some kind of kitchen storage area, and as Sam and Vincent

burst in from outside - FIVE RUSSIAN HOODS come flying in

from an interior entrance, and this is it, Sam and Vincent

are outnumbered, outgunned, they're going to die and then -

They take out the entire room - Sam holds an automatic pistol

in his left hand, and a submachine gun in his right, and when

he fires, he does so in short controlled bursts, firing only

when he has the target in his sights, while - Vincent fights

with a kind of sheer force, a shotgun in one hand, an Uzi in

the other, he fires at anything and everything that moves,

and he hits almost all of it - And suddenly the room is

quiet.  Everybody's dead except for Sam and Vincent.  They

drop their spent weapons and take out fresh ones even as they

move towards - THE DOOR - It leads to two passages, each one

leading to a separate wing of the chateau.

Vincent and Sam split up, moving into separate WINGS of the

Chateau, and as they move off Sam speaks a word of warning.

And then they're gone, and we're with -

Deirdre, who's running through the house, going from room to

room, and we're with her for a minute, the JAPANESE DRUM

starts to play again, and now it's joined by more and more

drums, and they continue for the test of this sequence and

suddenly - A HUGE BURST OF GUNFIRE is heard, dragging

Deirdre's attention towards -

THE BALLROOM -

And Sam's in the middle of a pitched battle with three

Gunmen.  He kills the first, and then the second, and then -

No third.  The Third Gunman rolls out of the way as Sam

fires, the Third Gunman fires back and - Their shots go wide,

ripping into mirrors and chandeliers, littering the floor

with glass.  And now we're -

ON DEIRDRE -

Running through the halls as we hear one last burst of

gunfire: somebody in the ballroom is dead.  Deirdre has

almost reached the ballroom when - Sam comes flying out, and

the two of them CRASH TOGETHER, sending the two of them

sprawling into - The shot-up mess that used to be the

Ballroom - And as they crash to the ground, Sam loses his

weapon in the fall, but Deirdre manages to hold onto one of

her two guns.  Now the two of them roll to their feet, and as

they do we're back in -

THE DINING ROOM -

Seamus the Madman is pacing the floor, his face even worse

than before: with each minute the mask of flesh that is now

his face is becoming more grotesque.  Little pustules have

started to form all over its surface, oozing a whitish

viscous liquid.  A NEW BURST OF FIGHTING SOUNDS can be heard,

and Seamus, who is no longer capable of thinking straight,

loses it.

And Seamus is gone, and so are we -- back to -

THE BALLROOM -

Where Deirdre has her two guns pointed at Sam and - Does nothing.

BEAT.

But Deirdre can't do it.  There's something between these

two, and now - Sam looks around and sees Deirdre's other

pistol lying on a broken chair, and now he -

Kicks out with his foot and hits the chair leg, causing it to

function as a lever, sending the gun - THROUGH THE AIR in a

graceful SLOW-MO arc until it - THWACKS into Sam's Hand.  Now

he's armed and he looks back at - Deirdre.  Her FINGER

tightens on the trigger, she's almost ready to shoot -- if

Sam raises his piece, he's a dead man.

In response Sam stares at Deirdre for a BEAT and then he

smiles an enigmatic smile and - He steps sideways, into a

nearby corridor, vanishing.

She runs after him but she's too late -- The corridor outside

is empty.  Now we're back in -

THE DINING ROOM -

With Gregor and Mikhi, and the tension is unbearable, because

they can hear the sounds of the fighting as it starts and

then stops, but they don't have the least idea of what's

going on.  Still, Mikhi won't let Gregor leave without giving

up the Briefcase.  Mikhi has a gun on Gregor, who in turn

holds the Briefcase close, ready to open it and set off the 5

Second Timer that will blow it up.

Gregor sits back down, fairly close to Mikhi.  Then, in a

manner so deft that Mikhi never even notices, Gregor extracts

a wickedly thin stiletto blade from the leather lining of the

Briefcase.  Before Mikhi can even react, Gregor stabs his arm

forward in a savage arc - JAMMING THE BLADE into Mikhi's

throat.  Mikhi drops his gun and reaches for the blade,

already gagging on the blood spray which shoots from the

slashed artery.  Within seconds - Mikhi falls to the ground,

jerking viciously in his death throes as - Gregor picks up

the pistol and runs to leave the room, and as he does we move

to -

THE GALLERY -

Filled with Paintings and Sculptures, nothing less than 200

years old.  This place is a maze, what with it's walls of

paintings that jut out here and there, the various corridors

which lead from room to room, and the sculptures which block

sight lines.  Now we find - Vincent, pressed against a wall, a

gun in each hand, while - FIVE RUSSIAN MAFIA GUYS are hunting

him down.  We do a SERIES OF QUICK CUTS as the Five Guys split

up and look for Vincent, all the while speaking in low Russian

voices.  Suddenly one of the Guys turns a corner and sees -

Nothing.  No Vincent.  Now he turns back and - A FIST CRASHES

through a painting which hangs on a makeshift wall.  It's

Vincent.  His hand wraps around Mafia Guy's neck, pinning him

in place.  Seconds later - Two quick shots rip through the

painting, hitting Mafia Guy in the head.  Now - The other men

are alerted by the shots, they come running and - Vincent steps

out firing -

And now it's a bullet-fest, as he gets the drop on them,

using the maze of the Gallery to his fullest advantage,

gunning them down - First one - Then two - Three, and then -

No four.  Vincent turns, surprised that his man wasn't where

he expected him to be when - A SHOT RINGS OUT, hitting

Vincent, a flesh wound that disarms him.  The Last Guy has

the drop on Vincent.  Now - The Last Guy smiles a nasty

little smile at Vincent and - A PISTOL spits fire and - A

BULLET bursts out of the Last Guy's chest.  It's Sam.  Now

Sam and Vincent exchange a look: Sam has, once again, saved

Vincent's life.

The two men don't have time for any more words, they move

from the Gallery and find themselves in -

THE DINING ROOM -

Where they find nothing but the bloody remains of Mikhi the

Gangster.  Sam and Vincent are surveying the room when a

VOICE comes from BEHIND them -

ANOTHER ANGLE - Seamus Reilly has come in behind them, and

he's got his gun pointed straight at Sam's heart.  If Seamus

is enraged at discovering Gregor's absence, he's overjoyed to

find Sam in his place.

Seamus pulls the trigger and his BULLET spins out towards

Sam, ready to blow a hole through him except that - Vincent

leaps forward and takes the bullet -- it rips into his side,

a huge splash of red against his white shirt.  He falls to

the ground, horribly wounded, but he's given Sam enough time,

and now - Sam and Seamus open fire on one another - BULLETS

RIPPING into the table, chewing up the china and crystal,

taking glass shattering bites out of the CHANDELIER above the

table, turning the Dining Room from a primo Louis XIV

showpiece into shit as the two men move about and then

suddenly - They're face to face, each with a gun to the other

- Mexican Standoff.  Suddenly, from Off Screen -

ANOTHER ANGLE - Deirdre has appeared, her gun leveled at the

two men.

Deirdre hesitates, uncertain.

These last words sink into Deirdre: she is a soldier.  Her

gun swivels towards Sam.

Deirdre makes up her mind.

She fires a shot - Blowing Seamus off his feet and through a

huge PLATE GLASS WINDOW.

She moves with Sam to Vincent, who is seriously wounded --

perhaps life-threateningly so.

Sam considers, but before he can make up his mind, Deirdre

sees something through the wreck of the Dining Room Window -

OUT ON THE BACK LAWN - We've already seen that it's bordered

on one side by the woods, for the first time we notice - A

LAKE, which laps against a PRIVATE DOCK, where a row boat is

tethered.  Now - BENEATH A VERY FULL MOON, the stark figure

of Gregor makes its way toward the Dock.

Sam turns at the sound of her voice and sees Gregor making

his escape.  Sam looks back at Vincent, who is almost passed

out from blood loss.

Same makes up his mind, and as Vincent passes out, Sam runs

out after Deirdre and towards -

THE PRIVATE DOCK -

And as the two of them run we MOVE WITH THEM.

And now they reach the Dock and they find - Nothing -- no

Gregor.  And the Boat is still there.  Before Sam can

restrain her - Deirdre stps out towards the Boat.

But it's too late: Gregor steps out from behind -

A BOATHOUSE, and before Deirdre can even figure out what

happened, Gregor has her in an arm lock, a gun to her head.

His free hand sticks out and we see the Briefcase, which is

still handcuffed to his wrist.

Gregor and Deirdre are poised at the edge of the lake.  This

Private Dock is made completely of stone, and the drop to the

water is nearly five feet.  Sam has reached a position where

there is no right answer.  Still, he points his gun at

Gregor, who in turn shields himself with Deirdre's body.

ANOTHER ANGLE - Seamus is somehow still barely alive -- he's

not long for this world, but the will for revenge has driven

him this far.

THE TOP OF SEAMUS'S HEAD explodes, finishing him off once and

for all, killed by -

Vincent, who has staggered out to make this one necessary

shot.  But he can go no further, and he collapses in his own

blood, near death, just as - Gregor takes a step towards the

boat and - Sam makes up his mind and shoots - THE BULLET

FLIES ACROSS THE SCREEN -

IMPACT - The Briefcase bursts, shot open by Sam and now we're

in SLOW MOTION as -

Gregor relaxes his grip on Deirdre as he struggles to close

the case and - Deirdre takes the opportunity to dive the

other, into the lake, while -

BABOOM!  The case EXPLODES, a flash of phosphorescent white

light that incinerates Gregor and the case and whatever was

inside it with an explosion that knocks Sam to the ground and

when the light clears - Gregor and the case are gone, while -

THE EXPLOSION ECHOES out over the lake, booming again and

again until finally there is - SILENCE.  Sam looks out over

the lake for any sign of Deirdre - But there is none.  And

then, after we've held for a BEAT longer than it should be

possible for her to have survived - her head splits the

surface and she emerges, coughing.  Sam reaches down to help

her out.

Sam pulls Deirdre out of the water and then the two of them

immediately turn and move towards Vincent, and as they do we

start to PULL BACK on them, and now the SOUNDS of SIRENS can

be heard, one, then two more, and then a symphony of noise.

And we're STILL PULLING BACK ON -

THE CHATEAU - Or what's left of it, because it's started to

burn, and quickly the flames start to rise into the night,

like something out of medieval times as we -

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. A HOSPITAL WAITING AREA - NIGHT

Sam waits outside a hospital room, inside of which we get a

glimpse of - A DOCTOR tending to a heavily bandaged and

sedated Vincent.  As Sam waits - TWO GENDARMES and a

PLAINCLOTHES DETECTIVE approach.  The Detective looks at Sam

for a BEAT, and then goes to push past him.  Sam blocks his

way.

Sam reaches into his coat, and for a moment everybody thinks

he's going for his gun, but instead he comes out with - A

PIECE OF PAPER.  He hands it to the Detective.

The Detective eyeballs the number suspiciously.

FIVE MINUTES LATER -

The Detective hangs up a nearby wall phone and then looks

over at Sam in disgust.  Without another word, the Detective

signals to the two Gendarmes, and all three men exit.  Now -

The DOCTOR, a beautiful French Woman, comes up and speaks to

him in FRENCH -- and the amazing thing is that Sam speaks

back.  Everything in SUBTITLED.

The Doctor isn't entirely satisfied with this answer, but

it's the only one she's going to get, because Sam moves past

into -

INT. VINCENT'S ROOM

He's barely alive -- but alive nonetheless.  And he's heard

Sam speak in French to the Doctor.

He lies back on his pillow, pissed and yet amused.

Sam turns for the door but Vincent has one last thing to say.

Same has to think about this for a second, and his answer

reveals just how full circle he's come.

And on that note Sam exits the room, leaving a bemused

Vincent behind.

EXT. THE BANK OF THE RIVER SEINE - EARLY MORNING

A WISPY FOG atmospherically rises off the river -- not too

thick, not too thin.

A TITLE: One month later...

We're MOVING along the cobble-stone walk next to the river as

a VOICE cuts through the fog.

A RIVERSIDE CAFE - Where Sam, Vincent and Deirdre are having

morning coffee.  A mostly-healed Vincent is smoking a

cigarette, trying to get Sam to light up.

The two of them turn to Sam, but he shakes his head.

Sam can't help it -- he's interested.

SLAM CUT TO:

EXT. OUT ON THE RIVER SEINE - MEANWHILE

SILENCE AND FOG.  A RIVER FERRY does a slow ghostly glide

down the river, and in seconds it approaches -

THE RIVERSIDE CAFE, which appears through the mist, looked at

by --

A SLEEK PAIR OF SUN GLASSES attached to a young PUNK in a

leather coat, and the Punk is looking at - Sam, Vincent, and

especially: Deirdre.  Sam looks up and shouts a warning as -

The Punk pulls a shotgun from beneath his leather coat, pumps

the gun and screams out at Deirdre with an Irish accent -

BOOM!  The Punk pulls the trigger, a blast of fire as - Sam's

gun is already out, TWO QUICK SHOTS squeezed off and - The

Punk is capped twice in the head, dead, sailing away on the

Ferry which never stops as -

THE CAFE goes wild, CUSTOMERS running, screaming, WAITERS

dropping their trays.  But - Sam doesn't run, and neither

does Vincent.  Sam stands, stunned by what he sees - Deirdre

lies on the ground, hit full on in the chest: she's dead.  A

BEAT OF PURE SILENCE - Broken by SIRENS in the distance, but

quickly growing closer.  Now - Vincent looks at Deirdre's

corpse, then at Sam, who is unable to move.  For maybe the

first time in his professional career, Sam is staggered by

the loss of a life.  Vincent gently takes Sam's arm.

Sam looks at Vincent, and for a moment Sam struggles to find

something to say, but he can't find a goddamned thing.  The

SIRENS are getting louder -

Vincent literally drags Sam away and now the SIRENS have

arrived, followed quickly by - THE GENDARMES, who come

running into the Cafe but - It's empty except for Deirdre's

body.  Now -

THE STREET ABOVE THE RIVER -

Sam and Vincent are running through patchy fog, Vincent

leading the way, and now -

We're CLOSER ON Vincent as he runs and runs and runs until he

feels he's far enough away from the scene of the crime to

relax.  He collapses against a stone wall, chest heaving,

shaking out two cigarettes, one for himself and one for Sam.

But Sam isn't there to take the cigarette -- Vincent looks

around, trying to see what happened to his friend, but the

fog has covered any sign of Sam.  Vincent stands there,

stunned, alone, the cigarettes in an outstretched hand that

slowly falls back to Vincent's side as he realizes that Sam

has left him on purpose.  Then - Vincent lights both

cigarettes at the saem time and throws one of them over the

stone wall - THE GLOWING CIGARETTE arcs through the air until

it lands in the river where it extinguishes with a hiss.

BACK AT THE CAFE -

The Gendarmes have secured the scene (there isn't much to

secure since everyone has run away).  A majority of cops

surround Deirdre's dead body, but - One GENDARME wanders

around the cafe, looking about, and then he sees something -

ON THE STREET ABOVE -

A SHAPE IN THE FOG.  The wind blows and the fog clears for a

second, and we see that it's - Sam.  Getting one last look at

Deirdre.  Quickly - The Gendarme points Sam out but as he

does the wind continues to blow and - THE FOG swallows Sam.

Seconds later the fog clears again, and when it does - Sam is

gone.

FADE OUT.

