Page 1.

SISTER ACT

FADE IN:

INT. ST. ANNE'S ACADEMY - AKRON, OHIO - CLASSROOM

We are in a parochial school classroom, in the late

Sixties.  The children all wear uniforms and sit at little

desks.  SISTER IMMACULATA stands at the front of the room;

she is a middle-aged nun, very severe.  The children are

all terrified of her.

ANGLE ON CHRISTINE CARTER

A thirteen-year-old girl sitting at a desk.  She raises

her hand.

Sister Immaculata nods, pursing her lips.  Christine

stands and heads for the door.

INT. GIRLS ROOM

Christine is now in the deserted St. Anne's girls room.

She is standing on tiptoes, looking in the mirror.  She has

taken her hair out of its neat barrettes; she is combing it

out.  She applies lipstick.

Christine reaches into her schoolbag; she pulls out a

stack of glittery bracelets and slips them on.  She

unbuttons the top few buttons of her stiff white blouse.

She sprays herself with dime store cologne.

EXT. HALLWAY

Christine opens the girls' room door; she looks both ways.

No one is around; she saunters down the hall.

Page 2.

ANGLE ON A DOOR MARKED BROOM CLOSET

Christine opens this door.  She looks into the closet.

There is a very nervous thirteen-year-old BOY waiting for

her inside.

Christine slips inside the closet and closes the door

behind her.

ANGLE ON SISTER IMMACULATA

Striding down the hall, with a bloodthirsty look in her

eye, and a nasty-looking wooden ruler in her hand.  She

flings open the broom closet door,

ANGLE ON CHRISTINE AND JIMMY

in the broom closet.  Jimmy's face is covered with

lipstick.  Christine's hair is awry.  The couple has

clearly been making out.

INT. CHRISTY'S APARTMENT - ANGLE ON A LARGE, TATTERED

POSTER-NIGHT (TODAY)

Taped over a crack on a wall.  The poster shows a

glittering CHRISTY VAN CARTIER:  singing star of a fifth-

rate Vegas lounge.  Christy wears tight spangles and a

major wig on the poster.  She has clearly lived up, or

down, to all of Sister Immaculata's expectations.

The CAMERA PANS through the dark bedroom in which the

poster hangs; a neon sign flashes outside the window,

casting a red and blue haze over the premises.  A dressing

room table is cluttered with dozens of bottles of nail

polish and makeup, and garish clothing and flashy jewelry

are scattered everywhere.

We hear the movement of BED SPRINGS as someone sits up in

the dark.

Page 3.

VINCE LAROCCA stands at the mirror, adjusting his clothing

and checking his hair.  Vince is a powerful, charismatic

man who rules an organized crime empire with personal

magnetism and threat.  Vince's hold over Christy is

obvious, if unfortunate; he can seem expansive and generous

one minute, ruthless and dangerous the next.

Christy turns on a lamp and lights a cigarette.

Vince turns to face Christy, turning on the charm.

Vince sits on the bed.  He takes Christy's hand, and

kisses it.

Page 4.

Vince kisses Christy's hands again and drops turns away

and starts putting on his shoes.

Vince backs off, and starts searching for his jacket.

Vince ducks as Christy throws an ashtray at him, and it

smashes against the wall.

Page 5.

A CLOCK-RADIO hits the wall beside Vince's head.

A LAMP hits the wall, as Vince dodges it.  He makes a

phone gesture with his hand.

Vince kisses two fingers, and blows the kiss to Christy.

He leaves.

Christy is left standing on the bed, holding a

particularly garish stuffed animal she was about to hurl.

With Vince gone she slumps to the bed, cradling the stuffed

animal. She is caught between tears and rage.

EXT. LAS VEGAS - NIGHT

ANGLE on various neon Vegas landmarks -- the Golden

Nugget, Caesar's Palace, Bally's, etc.  Scrunched in

between two larger hotels and casinos is the MOONLIGHT

HOTEL AND CASINO.  The Moonlight isn't all that small, it's

just seen better days.

INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT

A spotlight hits a solitary figure on a small stage.  The

man is caped and dramatic, but not especially talented; an

Elvis impersonator who's just a shade off in voice, looks

and style.

Backstage, there's still a look of resolve in Christy's

eye as she waits to go on with MICHELLE and TINA, her back-

up singers.

Onstage, Elvis glances into the wings to be sure the

Ronelles are ready.

Page 6.

Elvis disappears.  The spotlight hits Christy, who wears a

high beehive wig and a sequinned, early Supremes-style

gown.  Michelle and Tina wear matching gowns and wigs.  The

band begins a doo-wop vamp.

As they sing, their moves and gestures are carefully

choreographed in vintage girl group style.

Page 7.

A lot of talent and hard work has clearly gone into the

number.  While Christy does her best, her singing voice is

not on a par with those of the other Ronelles.

The lounge itself is practically empty, except for a few

drunken Shriners and a couple of college kids.  POLICE

LIEUTENANT EDDIE MULCAHY sits at a ringside table with his

eyes locked on Christy.  An easygoing charmer, Eddie gives

her a wink, but she responds with an up-yours look and a

turn to the other half of the room as the song continues.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - LATER

A small, cramped room with cracked plaster walls and a

sputtering fan for ventilation.  Christy has her own

dressing table and mirror, and the Ronelles share a table a

few feet away.  Clothing and costumes hang on nails or are

draped over chairs as the girls change into street wear.

A pock-faced weasel of a man named JOEY opens the door and

leans into the room.

Joey takes a step into the room and sets a box on the

chair near Christy.

Page 8.

Joey leaves.  Michelle and Tina hover around the box, very

excited.  They pick it up, trying to tempt Christy.

There's a KNOCK on the door, and Tina opens it.

Lieutenant Eddie Mulcahy enters.  Christy is not pleased.

Eddie picks up the coat.

Page 10.

Christy hurls a jar of cold cream at Eddie's head.  He

ducks, and the jar hits the door.

Eddie leaves.  Christy is standing, absolutely furious.

Christy grabs the mink and heads out the door.

INT. VINCE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

ERNIE SCHMIDT sits across the enormous mahogany desk from

Vince.  The young man's throat is dry; he's sweating

bullets.  The presence of Joey the weasel and WILLY, a

brutal thug, increases Ernie's tension.

Vince gestures to the lush office and its furnishings.

Vince gestures to Joey, who takes out a revolver and

points it at Ernie's head.

Ernie's eyes open wide with denial as the gun comes closer

to his temple.

Page 11.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY

Holding the coat, Christy waits by the elevator.  It

arrives; she gets in.

INT. VINCE'S OFFICE

The interrogation continues.

Joey slams Ernie on the side of the head with the gun.

INT. CORRIDOR

Christy steps out of the elevator and faces a maze of

office cubicles with half-wall partitions.  The floor is

deserted and dark as she makes her way through the

cubicles.

INT. VINCE'S OFFICE

Vince is standing over Ernie, holding his head up by the

hair.

INT. EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR

Beyond the cubicles, Christy strides down a lush corridor

to an executive suite.  She tries the knob, but finds the

door locked.  Pulling a key from her purse, she unlocks the

door to the suite and enters a large outer office with a

reception area and doors to several inner offices.  She

tosses the key onto the receptionist's desk.

Crossing to Vince's office, Christy squares her shoulders

and narrows her eyes with anger as she reaches for the

doorknob.  She pauses for a second, and then doubles her

resolve.

Page 12.

INT. VINCE'S OFFICE

ANGLE on the door to the office, which opens.  Christy

appears, with the mink coat in her arms.

A GUNSHOT is heard, 0.S.  Christy's eyes widen, and her

jaw drops, at what she has just witnessed.

ANGLE on the office.  Ernie is slumped in the chair, dead.

Joey stands over him, holding the revolver.  Joey, Willy

and Vince stare at Christy.

Christy tries to speak; she can't.

Christy glances around the room; she doesn't move.  She

quickly sizes up the situation.  She tries to appear

matter-of-fact. unaffected by what she's just seen.

Page 13.

Vince crosses the room, to Christy.  He takes her hands in

his, and kisses them.

Christy kisses Vince, quickly.

Christy reaches for the doorknob, without looking at the

door.  She fumbles a bit.  She finds the door.

Christy walks backwards, out the door.  She turns; she is

gone.

With guns drawn, Willy and Joey run after Christy.

INT. RECEPTION AREA

Christy, clearly terrified, is walking quickly away from

Vince's office.  She passes through a glass door which

leads to the cubicle area.

LONG SHOT of the cubicle area, which resembles a darkened

maze.  Christy hears Joey approaching; she runs into the

cubicle area.

Page 14.

ANGLE on Christy, crouched behind a half-wall.  She is

clutching the coat.

There is a stuffed toy, a "Garfield the Cat," attached to

the wall near Christy, with suction cups.  Christy tries to

pull the cat's feet off the wall, very quietly.

Christy finally just yanks the cat off the wall.  She

hurls it as high and as far as she can, to the opposite end

of the room.

ANGLE on the flying stuffed cat.

Joey sees the blur of the cat; he SHOOTS it, and the cat

explodes.

Christy steadies herself against a Xerox machine.  She

accidentally activates the machine, which lights up and

starts HUMMING.

ANGLE on Willy, as he hears the Xerox machine.  He quickly

moves toward the SOUND.

Willy reaches the Xerox machine; the area is deserted.  He

starts moving quickly down the aisle   A chair, the kind on

casters, comes rolling out of one of the cubicle doorways;

the chair hits Willy and he falls.

Christy runs out of the cubicle; Willy is on the floor,

struggling to get up.  As Christy sprints away, Willy

SHOOTS at her.  He misses, but a glass partition SHATTERS.

Christy runs for an open elevator, but it has been

summoned from another floor and the doors are beginning to

close. She runs even faster.  A BULLET whistles past her

ear and hits the back wall of the elevator.  She reaches

for the doors a moment too late, and the elevator is gone.

Christy scrambles to the door beside the elevator and runs

into a stairwell as two more BULLETS bite pieces out of the

door.

INT. STAIRWELL

Taking the stairs three at a time, Christy is flying,

still clutching the mink.  The thugs are gaining on her.  A

BULLET hits metal and RICOCHETS off several walls and

steps.

Page 15.

At the next landing, Christy opens the door and ducks into

a corridor.

INT. CORRIDOR

Exhausted but powered by adrenaline, Christy sprints past

doors to the end of the hall, still with the mink.  Joey

appears from the stairwell just as Christy ducks into a

supply room.

INT. SUPPLY ROOM

Christy shoves a cleaning cart aside and wades through a

pile of dirty linen.  Joey opens the door just as Christy

dives head first into the laundry chute.

INT. LAUNDRY CHUTE

Christy, lying atop the mink, flies through the chute like

a subway train through a tunnel.

INT. BASEMENT

The chute spits Christy out like a bullet into a huge bin

of dirty linen.  Two workers glance around as they load

large washing machines with laundry.  Christy climbs out of

the bin and dashes for a door.  Working in a hotel, the

workers have seen everything.

INT. LAUNDRY CHUTE

Joey flies through the chute.

INT. BASEMENT

Joey suddenly flies into the bin.  He climbs out with his

gun in sight.

The workers point to the door, and Joey rushes across the

room.  One of the workers is now wearing the mink coat.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Joey comes out of the hotel and finds an empty street.  He

looks in every direction, but the nearby streets have

swallowed Christy into safety for the moment.

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The central offices of the Las Vegas Police Department.

INT. MULCAHY'S OFFICE

Eddie's office is a glassed-in area set in the middle of

the station's main floor.

Page 16.

Christy is huddled in a chair, surrounded by Eddie and two

other detectives, CLARKSON and TATE.

Page 17.

The three detectives move in closer now and really apply

the pressure.

Page 18.

Tate leaves.  Christy looks to Eddie for a bargain now.

Eddie smiles.  Christy doesn't like the sound of this at

all a

Page 19.

INT. STAINED CLASS WINDOW - DAY

Jesus delivers the Sermon on the Mount in vibrant red,

blue and green stained glass.  An ORGAN plays a hymn --

badly.  Notes are missed, skipped over and mutilated.

PAN DOWN to a procession of nuns who march into a chapel

at the ancient St. Katherine's Convent.  The organ isn't

getting any better, and we see it is being played by SISTER

ALMA, a seventy-year-old nun with arthritis and a hearing

aid.  Apparently the hearing aid is malfunctioning, because

Sister Alma doesn't seem to realize how badly she's

playing.

As the last nun in the procession enters the chapel, she

closes the door behind her.  Across the lobby, the front

door opens and Eddie enters with a very reluctant Christy.

As Christy looks around the lobby, various religious

artifacts loom at her; we see them from her terrified P0V.

ANGLE on a crucifix, casting an ominous shadow, a stack of

hymnals, and a large, framed Sunday School-style portrait

of St. Katherine.  Christy shudders.

Christy turns to head back to the entrance, but Eddie

catches her arm.

Christy searches his eyes for a lie, but realizes he's

telling the truth.

Page 20.

From inside the chapel, the CHOIR begins to sing a hymn --

horribly.  The voices don't blend, and individual notes are

real migraine material.  Christy looks aghast.  Eddie urges

her into a corridor, and she follows.

INT. MOTHER SUPERIOR'S OFFICE

The office is bare and austere.  MOTHER SUPERIOR sits at

her desk with her hands folded.  Like all the nuns at the

convent, she wears the traditional full-length habit and

wimple.

Mother Superior is in total command of all she surveys,

and she seldom raises her voice or her blood pressure as

she rules.  Control is her passion; within the walls of the

convent, she has created a world she can trust because it's

a world she controls.

Page 21.

Mother Superior's jaw locks.  She realizes she is stuck

with the situation and will have to control it as best she

can.  There is a KNOCK at the door, and Eddie and Christy

enter.

The thought of being left alone with Mother Superior

panics Christy, like a child left in the principal's

office.

Eddie touches her gently on the arm.

Page 22.

EXT. THE CONVENT - A FEW SECONDS LATER

Eddie and Bishop 0'Hara are leaving, by the convent's

front door.  As they exit, they hear the CHOIR, singing

horribly. They both wince at the sound, and then chuckle.

INT. MOTHER SUPERIOR'S OFFICE

Christy is pacing, outraged at her new situation.

Page 23.

Mother Superior rises.  She is an extremely imposing

woman.

Christy sits in a wooden chair across from Mother

Superior.

Christy inspects her cigarette.

Page 24.

Christy stands, facing off with Mother Superior.

Page 25.

INT. CONVENT CHANGING ROOM

A small room, with a sewing machine, some bolts of fabric,

and several wooden cabinets.  There is a wooden screen in a

corner, marking a changing area.  Christy is behind the

screen; we hear her, but do not see her,  Mother Superior

stands beside the screen, catching the various items of

clothing which Christy tosses to her.

Mother Superior takes Christy's skirt and blouse, and

tosses them down a chute marked "INCINERATOR."

Mother Superior carries Christy's lacy bra at the end of a

ruler; it goes down the incinerator.

INT. CHAPEL

A group of nuns are praying, their heads bowed.  They hear

a muffled SCREAM, from elsewhere in the convent. They look

up, puzzled.

Page 26.

INT. CONVENT CHANGING ROOM

Christy is standing before a full-length mirror, staring

at herself, in complete shock.  She now wears a habit and

wimple.  Mother Superior is doing final adjustments on the

wimple.

INT. CONVENT HALLWAY - A MINUTE LATER

Mother Superior is striding down the hall.  Christy is

beside her, trying to get the hang of her new outfit.

Page 27.

Christy starts to leave; Mother Superior grabs her by the

wimple

INT. CONVENT DINING HALL

A large, whitewashed gothic room, with oak beams and a

crude iron chandelier.  There is a long, central wooden

table, with rough wooden benches.

The convent's population is standing around the table in

silence.  There are about thirty nuns in all.

Mother Superior moves to the head of the table, with

Christy following her.  She motions for Christy to stand at

her right.

ANGLE on SISTER MARY ROBERT, the nun standing beside

Christy.  Sister Mary Robert is naive and mouse- like, but

very sweet.  She has only been at the convent a few years;

she wears the simpler habit of a novice.  She sneaks a look

at Christy.  Her eyes widen, and then she resumes staring

at her hands.

Everyone sits, including Christy.  SISTER MARY PATRICK, a

nun seated at the middle of the table, waves her hand. Mary

Patrick is extremely cheerful, a truly upbeat person.

ANGLE on Christy, looking thoroughly disgusted.

Page 28.

ANGLE on the nuns, watching Christy.

Christy stands up slowly, aghast.

ANGLE on Mary Patrick, beaming.  She and the other nuns

bow their heads.

So far, so good.  Mother Superior has one eye open.

ANGLE on the nuns, staring at Christy. Mother Superior

rises, very quickly.

Page 29.

Christy reaches for a piece of bread.

Christy looks up.

ANGLE on Christy, clutching her fork, hungrily watching

the other nuns eat.

EXT. POLICE STATION - DAY

Vince leaves the police station with his henchmen, Joey

and Willy, and LARRY NARREN, an attorney.  Vince is

steaming as they walk through the parking lot.

Vince reaches his car.  As Joey opens the door for him,

another car drives by, and stops.  Eddie is driving; he

leans out the window.

Page 30.

Vince lurches toward Eddie; Larry restrains him.  Eddie

drives off, chuckling.

Larry covers his ears with both hands.

Vince looks grim and vindictive, as he gets into the car.

EXT. CONVENT VEGETABLE GARDEN - DAY

The vegetable patch is located behind the convent, on a

patch of land surrounded by high walls.  Various sections

have been partitioned with string and then furrowed.

Several nuns are working in the patch, weeding and raking.

They wear large, ungainly straw hats over their wimples.

Christy has been given a hoe and a straw hat.  She is

hacking at the dirt, with great disinterest.  She picks up

a carrot from the vegetable patch; she looks around to see

if anyone is watching.  She starts to gnaw on the carrot.

She becomes aware that someone is watching her.  She looks

up.

Sister Mary Robert is watching Christy eat the carrot,

breaking her fast.  Christy drops the carrot on the ground,

as if it burned her.  Mary Robert resumes hoeing in the

next furrow over.

Christy stares at Mary Robert, narrowing her eyes.

Christy looks around; all the other nuns are busy at their

tasks.  Christy decides that she will try and make Sister

Mary  Robert talk.  She picks up the carrot and tosses it

at Mary Robert.  Mary Robert jumps.  She waggles a finger

at Christy, scolding her.  Mary Robert resumes hoeing.

Page 31.

Christy is now determined.  She takes her hoe, and tiptoes

nearer to Mary Robert.  Very gently, she uses the handle of

the floe to lift Mary Robert's skirt, and gooses her.

Mary Robert vips, very loudly.  All the other nuns turn

and stare at Mary Robert, scolding her.  Christy waggles

her finger at Mary Robert, scolding her.

Christy, giggling to herself, resumes hoeing.  She sees

Mother Superior, standing at the end of the furrow.  Mother

Superior looks extremely grim; she has not missed anything.

EXT. SUNSET - THAT NIGHT

LONG SHOT of the sun going down, ending the nuns' Vow of

Silence.

We hear Christy SCREAM, O.S.

INT. CONVENT HALLWAY - THAT NIGHT

This hallway is marked by a series of heavy wooden doors

with tiny, grilled windows.  These are the cells where the

nuns sleep.  Nuns are entering their cells and closing

their doors for the night.

Mother Superior glides down the hall, followed by a dusty,

bedraggled Christy.  Christy is devouring a slice of brown

bread.

They stop by a door.

INT. CHRISTY'S CELL

The door swings open, and Mother Superior and Christy

enter.  The room is tiny, with bare plaster walls.  There

is a narrow wooden bed, with a thin muslin-covered

mattress.  There is a small nightstand and a wooden stool.

Page 32.

Page 33

Mother Superior leaves.

After the door shuts, Christy stands and looks out the one

small window in her cell.  She leans her head against the

wall.  She is trying not to think about what Mother

Superior has said.  Still, the mess her life has become

overwhelms her.  She fights back tears.

EXT. CONVENT - DAY

The sun is just barely rising, as the convent BELL tolls.

INT. CHRISTY'S CELL

Christy is fast asleep.  There is a RAPPING at the door.

EXT. CONVENT HALLWAY

All the nuns are proceeding, in their simple robes and

nightshirts, down the hallway.

Christy's door opens; she is still in her nightshirt, and

her hair is a mess.

Mary Robert, in her nightshirt, stands outside.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE BATHING ROOM - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Christy is standing on line in the hall, along with

several other nuns; they are waiting to take showers.  They

carry soap and towels.

Page 34.

MARY LAZARUS is a much older nun; she is very no-nonsense,

a hard-liner.

INT. BATHING ROOM

A stone room that is very medieval-looking.  One wall is

divided into stalls by wooden partitions.  In each stall is

a nun, standing beneath a crude shower head that releases a

thin stream of lukewarm water.  We see only the nuns' heads

and shoulders.

Still sleepy, Christy leans against the wall of her stall,

her eyes closed.  Lost in thought, she begins singing

softly to herself.

Page 35.

Christy looks up from her reverie; she looks around.  The

other nuns are bathing, their eyes down.  There is no sign

of singing.  Christy decides to try a test.

The nuns giggle.

Page 36.

Mary Lazarus leaves the bathing room, and the other nuns

resume scrubbing themselves.  Christy looks around.

INT. CHAPEL - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Bishop O'Hara is leading the Sunday mass.  He stands in

the pulpit.  The choir nuns stand in a fenced-in area to

his left.  The remaining nuns, including Christy and Mother

Superior, sit in the first few pews.

Mary Lazarus raises her hand, and the choir begins

singing. They sing a traditional hymn, "Let Thy Thoughts Be

Guided." As always, their singing is dreadful; they have no

tempo or pitch, and the hymn becomes an off-key drone.

As the hymn continues, the CAMERA PANS OVER the chapel.

Aside from the nuns, it is almost empty; only a few elderly

people are in attendance.

ANGLE ON CHRISTY

sitting with the other nuns.  She is clearly about to fall

asleep.  Then the choir hits a particularly horrendous

note, and Christy jerks awake.  She immediately tries to

assume a pious expression, tilting her head and folding her

hands in prayer; she looks like a somewhat demented Sunday

School calendar.

EXT. LAS VEGAS POLICE DEPARTMENT

Detective Clarkson gets out of his car and hurries into

the police station.

INT. POLICE STATION

Clarkson crosses the busy room to Eddie's glass-walled

office.  Along the way, he signals Detective Tate to follow

him.

Page 37.

INT. MULCAHY'S OFFICE

Eddie looks up from his desk as the two detectives enter.

Clarkson gives Eddie a fax sheet, showing a publicity

photograph of Christy.

INT. CONVENT SCHOOLROOM - AN HOUR LATER

A plain whitewashed classroom, with battered student-style

desks.  A group of about eight local TEENAGE GIRLS has

gathered.  The girls wear extremes of hair, makeup and

clothing; they are bored and scruffy, clearly the local bad

Girls.  Sister Mary Patrick is leading the class, in her

usual perky manner.

The Girls make grunting noises.

ANGLE on the Girls, exchanging glances and rolling their

eyes.

Page 38

Mary Patrick points to a Girl in bicycle pants. a bustier

and a leather baseball cap.  Her name is Lawanda.

Mother Superior enters the classroom accompanied by

Christy

Mother Superior and Mary Patrick leave the classroom.

Christy now stands at the front of the room.  She is

visibly uncomfortable.

Page 39

The Girls all laugh and make jeering noises.

Page 40.

All the Girls look up, stunned by Christy's language.

All the girls jeer at Charlene.

The girls all laugh; they are really beginning to like

Christy.

Page 41.

Mother Superior has returned, with Mary Patrick.  Everyone

has been so wrapped up in the discussion, that no one has

noticed their entrance.

INT. MOTHER SUPERIOR'S OFFICE - LATER THAT DAY

Mother Superior is seated behind her desk; she is very

angry.  Christy sits across from her.

Page 42.

Mother Superior smiles in a rather evil manner.

INT. VINCE'S OFFICE - DAY

Vince is on the telephone in his office at the Moonlight

Hotel and Casino.  He clearly has a new mistress or two.

A second telephone RINGS, and Willy answers it.  Vince

meanwhile has pushed a button on his phone and is involved

in a second romantic call.

Willy passes the phone to Vince. t

Page 43

Vince passes the phone back to Willy.

Willy heads for the fax machine.  Vince regains his

composure, and picks up his own phone; he pushes a button.

INT. CONVENT CRAFTS ROOM

This is a large, open room where the nuns create various

gift items which the convent sells to support itself.

Several nuns sit at a table, diligently hand-painting

Christmas cards and making Christmas tree ornaments.

On the other side of the room is a large, free-standing

loom, which resembles a grand piano.  The loom is wooden; a

tapestry is half-completed.  Mary Patrick is seated at the

loom, which is a complicated mechanism.  Christy stands

beside her.

Page 44.

CRAFTS ROOM - AN HOUR LATER

ANGLE on the wall hanging, which has progressed

considerably.

ANGLE on Christy, leaning against the wall, thumbing

through a magazine.

ANGLE on Mary Patrick, hard at work at the loom.

Mother Superior appears.

Page 45.

Mother Superior gestures to the loom.  Christy sits at the

loom, and waves as Mother Superior and Mary Patrick exit.

Christy stares at the loom; a look of horror crosses her

face.  She has not been paying attention to Mary Patrick's

instructions.  She cracks her knuckles, as if she were

about to play the piano.  She grabs two parts of the loom,

at random.  She moves these parts.

ANGLE on the loom.  As a result of Christy's movements,

the loom collapses, piece by piece.  The tapestry unravels,

the many skeins of wool snap, and the mechanical apparatus

disintegrates, until finally the entire loom shudders and

falls to the floor, as Christy watches, aghast.

INT. CORRIDOR

Mother Superior is striding down the hall; she is livid.

Christy trails behind her, trying to keep up.

Mother Superior stops dead in her tracks; she turns and

stares at Christy.  Then she smiles, in a rather

frightening manner.

MONTAGE - CHRISTY

A)on her hands and knees. scrubbing the stone floor of a

convent hallway.

B)crawling along between the pews in the chapel, oiling

every inch of wood with a bottle of polish and a rag.

C)crawling along the convent roof, cleaning out gutters

with a trowel.  She discovers a dead rat in one of the

gutters.

Page 46

D)sewing; she is repairing a hole in a habit.  The CAMERA

PULLS BACK.  Christy is sitting in a small stone room,

surrounded by piles of torn habits, linen and other

mending.

INT. MOTHER SUPERIOR'S OFFICE

Christy is on the phone in the darkened office.  She keeps

checking the door, to make sure no one is listening.

Christy cups her hand around the phone and speaks quietly

and frantically.  INTERCUT between Christy and Eddie.

Page 47

In the distance, Christy hears the CHOIR practicing; they

sound even worse than usual.

As the line goes dead, Mother Superior enters.  Christy

takes her dust rag and pretends to polish the receiver. She

sings as she works.

Still singing, Christy breezes out of the room.  Mother

Superior looks mystified.

INT. CHRISTY'S CELL - MIDNIGHT

Christy is lying flat out on her bed, in her habit,

utterly exhausted by the week's hard labor.  There is a

meek SCRATCHING at her door.

Sister Mary Robert enters, very shyly.  She barely looks

up.

Page 48.

Mary Robert holds out a rather rugged crust of brown

bread.  Christy takes it..

Mary Robert nods, and resumes looking at her hands.  She

doesn't 1eave, but she's still tongue-tied. Christy is at a

loss.

Mary Robert bursts into tears.

Page 49.

Mary Robert nods, solemnly.  Suddenly, from the streets

outside the convent, we hear a BLAST OF hot dance MUSIC,

and the SOUND of laughter and carefree conversation.

Christy stands, and goes to the crucifix hanging on the

wall.  She speaks to the crucifix, and listens, as if Jesus

is advising her.

Page 50.

Christy turns to Mary Robert, having received a holy

message.

Another BLAST OF MUSIC from the street.  Christy turns to

the crucifix.  She gets confirmation.

EXT. STREET

The outer wall of the convent.  A door swings open, and

Christy sticks her head out.  She looks both ways, and

steps outside.  She beckons to Mary Robert, who appears

from behind her.  Mary Robert looks very wary.  Christy

pulls her along.

EXT. A STREET NEARBY

Christy and Mary Robert walk along a street a few blocks

from the convent.

Page 51.

Christy breathes deep, and then lets out a whoop.  She

spins, letting her habit billow around her.

Mary Robert's eyes widen.  She points to herself -- "Me?"

Christy nods.  Mary Robert lets out a tiny little whoop,

and does a little, timid hop.

EXT. SOCIAL CLUB

A neighborhood hang-out, the windows bright with neon beer

signs.  The exterior is colorfully painted; the club all

but explodes with good times.  A group of teenagers lounge

on the steps, sipping beers and smoking.  Among the

teenagers are the girls from Christy's Christian Youth

group.  Christy and Mary Robert approach, and the group

falls silent.

Lawanda reluctantly hands over her cigarettes.  Christy

turns to a TEENAGE BOY who's drinking beer.

Page 52.

The boy hands over the beer.  Christy and Mary Robert

enter the club.

INT. SOCIAL CLUB

Christy enters the club and grins.  She takes a drag on

the cigarette.  Mary Robert grabs the beer from Christy's

hand, and takes a swig.

The club is alive with activity; the bar is crowded,

couples are making out at small tables, and the dance floor

is packed.  The atmosphere is a combination of hazy

darkness and colored lights; the club should have the

feeling of a hot neighborhood party, with people of all

ages and races.  The MUSIC percolates, and Christy starts

to move to it.  She and Mary Robert find a table in the

corner, and signal a nearby waitress.

The waitress looks at the two women strangely; the club

has never hosted nuns before.

Page 53

The waitress leaves, shaking her head.  Christy and Mary

Robert watch the action at the club.

Across the room, MIKE the bartender stares at the nuns,

especially Christy; he tries to place her.

From across the room, Mike the bartender continues to

study Christy's face.  He takes out a copy of Vince's fax

photo and stares at it.  He covers Christy's hair in the

photo with his hands, creating a wimple.  There is no

question in his mind; the two are the same.  Mike has a

dangerous look in his eyes as he takes a gun from the

drawer and slips it into his pocket beneath his apron.

There is a LIVE BAND on a small stage at one end of the

club.  They start playing a hot dance number, and the club

really begins to cook, as the dance floor fills.  Christy

and Mary Robert, both still seated, start to move with the

music.

A very good-looking LOCAL DUDE comes over to the nuns

table.  He is clearly amused at their presence.

Page 54.

Mary Robert leads the Dude out onto the dance floor.

Christy decides she'd better keep an eye on Mary Robert;

she grabs another DUDE, and heads for the dance floor.

As the music percolates, Christy and Mary Robert dance;

Christy is very hot, and Mary Robert picks up on her moves.

The CLUB PATRONS are delighted, and cheer as the nuns start

to get down.

As the song, and the nuns' exuberant dancing, peak, the

Club Patrons cheer, shouting "Hallelujah!" and "Amen!"

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Christy and Mary Robert are walking back to the convent.

They are both in very good spirits.

As the two women laugh together, they don't notice the car

that begins to follow them, creeping slowly forward with

its headlights out.

Page 55.

The car's bright lights suddenly switch on, and the nuns

turn, startled.  The car hurtles toward them.  They scream,

and Christy grabs Mary Robert and throws her out of the

car's path; the two women land on a pile of garbage bags.

Struggling to her feet, Christy sees the car go into

reverse, and then pull forward again.  She sees a glint of

light reflect off a gun as the car's driver (Mike the

bartender) leans out the window.

Christy shoves Mary Robert towards an alley.  As she does

so, the gun GOES OFF with a red flash.  The shot misses the

two women and SHATTERS a plate glass window of the store

behind them.

EXT. ALLEY

Running up the alley, Christy and Mary Robert hear Mike's

FOOTSTEPS chasing them, growing louder as he gains on them.

Christy grabs the ladder of a fire escape, and shoves Mary

Robert up the ladder ahead of her.

As Christy and Mary Robert climb the fire escape, another

GUNSHOT ECHOES in the alley, ricocheting off the fire

escape.

The nuns climb higher up the building.  Mike pursues,

looking for a shot between the steps and the landings, but

not finding any openings.  He takes the steps two at a time

and begins to gain ground.

At the fourth floor landing, Christy's heel gets stuck in

the grating.  She pulls frantically at the laces.

Page 56.

Mike arrives at the landing just as Christy twists her

toot out of the shoe, and surprises him with a lunge for

the gun.  Mike's hand is knocked back against the metal

frame of the fire escape, and the gun flies loose, RATTLING

down the metal steps to the landing below.  Christy shoves

Mary Robert into the open window of an apartment, and

follows her in.

INT. TENEMENT APARTMENT

Christy and Mary Robert leap into the bedroom of an

Hispanic couple, their arms wrapped around each other in

bed.  At the women's entrance, the couple looks up, stunned

to see two nuns in their bedroom.

The couple continues to look stunned as the nuns race out

of the room.

EXT. CONVENT - NIGHT

Christy and Mary Robert run up to the side door of the

convent; they catch their breath.

The door to the convent swings open.  Mother Superior is

waiting.

Page 57

INT.CONVENT CORRIDOR - DAY

Christy sits alone outside Mother Superior's office,

listening to the loud TICKING of the clock on the wall. She

seems small and vulnerable, like a child sent to the

principal's office.

The door opens and Eddie emerges from the office.

Reluctantly, Christy rises and approaches the door.  She

looks at Eddie, who motions her to go in.  She finally

does.

INT. MOTHER SUPERIOR'S OFFICE

Mother Superior is working on some papers at her desk as

Christy enters.  Christy is trying to figure out a

strategy.

Page 58.

Mother Superior glances up from her work.  She is

justifiably outraged.

Mother Superior stares at Christy.

Page 59

INT. CHOIR REHEARSAL ROOM - THAT DAY

There are twelve nuns in the room, going over sheet music.

Mary Lazarus is the group's leader; Mary Patrick and Mary

Robert are also in the choir.  Christy appears at the door,

grimacing.

Christy spots Mary Robert.

Mary Lazarus cuts off this chitchat, thrusting a hymnal at

Christy.

Page 60.

Mary Lazarus hands Christy a hymnal, and raps her baton.

The choir begins to sing; Christy doesn't even bother

trying.  She is horrified; the choir is the worst-sounding

group in history.  They seem to be singing in several

random keys, and they even have trouble with the words.  No

one looks up from their hymnals.  Sister Alma, the organist

with the hearing aid, is plodding along.

INT. BLUE COLLAR BAR - DAY

Mike the bartender is taking chairs off tables and setting

them on the floor as Joey and Willy enter.

Willy grabs Mike's arms and bends them behind his back.

Willy slams Mike's face into the wall, stunning him.  Joey

lifts Mike's groggy face and offers sympathy.

Willy hammers Mike's face into the wall again.

Page 61.

Willy and Joey look at each other, and consider this.

Then they burst out laughing.  They refuse to believe

Mike's story.

Willy and Joey pick Mike up, and hurl him over the bar.

Then they exit, still laughing.

INT. CHOIR REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

The choir continues its dreadful rendition of the hymn

Let Thy Thoughts He Guided.  Christy is not singing; she

is clearly in pain.  Mary Lazarus stops the song.  One of

the nuns has to nudge Sister Alma to stop her playing.

Page 62.

Everyone falls silent.  Mary Lazarus walks across the

room, eyeballing each member of the choir.

Everyone watches Christy.

Christy goes over to the piano.  She examines the sheet

music for "Let They Thoughts He Guided."  She sits at the

piano, beside Sister Alma.  Christy picks out the hymn on

the piano, accompanying herself.

Christy's singing voice is, as usual, not very good.  She

stops singing.  For perhaps the first time in her life, she

has really heard herself.

Page 63.

Mary Robert jumps, startled by the attention.

Sister Alma plays the note.  Christy points the baton at

Mary Robert.  Mary Robert whispers the note.

Mary Robert sings a little louder.

Mary Robert sings louder still.

Mary Robert finally lets out her full voice, which is huge

and glorious.  After singing a single perfect note, she

stops abruptly; she has scared herself.

Page 64.

The two nuns trade places.

Sister Alma plays the note, and the nuns try to duplicate

it, but the results aren't much better than before. Christy

uses her pitchpipe; she circulates among the nuns, giving

each her note, urging them closer to pitch.

Sister Alma hits the note.  Christy shuffles a couple of

more nuns to other sections, then gets a third note going

with the altos, using her pitchpipe.

For one moment, the nuns all realize they are singing a

perfect chord.  They are elated.

Page 65.

Christy and Mary Lazarus look at each other, as real

comrades.  Christy leans on Mary Lazarus' shoulder.

Christy and Mary Lazarus shake hands, firmly.  Christy

turns to the choir, very businesslike.

INT. CONVENT LAUNDRY ROOM - DAY

This is a basement utility room.     A large industrial

washer-dryer stands along one wall; the machine makes a

repetitive CHUNG-CHUNG sound

Page 66.

The choir nuns are busily doing laundry; some iron, others

fold sheets, others stack towels and garments on a long

table.  Christy is helping Mary Patrick fold a sheet.

Everyone is working rhythmically, to the drone of the

washer-dryer.

Christy starts clapping her hands to the sound of the

washer-dryer; gradually, the other nuns join her.

There is a murmur from all the other nuns -- "Oh, yes.

Page 67.

The nuns have really gotten into the song, with Christy

encouraging them verbally.  They are sounding better and

better.

SISTER MARY FREDERICK, a member of the choir, steps into

the laundry room and lets loose with a sudden, piercing

whistle.  The nuns immediately stop singing, and a moment

later Mother Superior enters.

The room is quiet except for the sound of the washer-

dryer. The nuns all get very busy at their laundry tasks.

Mother Superior takes one more glance around, then leaves.

Now that the coast is clear, the singing begins again,

quietly, to the rhythm of the machine.

INT. CHAPEL

Bishop O'Hara is leading the Sunday Mass.

Page 68.

As usual, the chapel is almost empty, except for the nuns.

The choir is in place behind the pulpit.

Christy nods to the Bishop, and signals to Sister Alma,

who begins the accompaniment.

They sound fantastic.  Their voices blend with a heavenly

harmony as they sing the slow, melodic hymn.  Mother

Superior is startled by this new sound.

EXT. STREET

Lawanda and her friends glance at the convent with

curiosity as the beautiful MUSIC drifts out to the street.

A few other heads turn, but with only mild reactions.

INT. CHAPEL

At the end of the first verse, Christy signals the choir

to stop.  There's a hush in the chapel as Christy glances

at the vacant pews.  Then she turns to Sister Alma and

nods. Sister Alma strikes a bold, stirring chord.

Several of the nuns blink.  Bishop O'Hara glances at the

organ with surprise.  Mother Superior sits up with a

stiffened back and a severe expression.

As the chord grows in force, Christy gives the choir a

beat.

The choir begins a radically new version of the same hymn.

Christy strides up and down in front of the choir,

transforming the song into a rousing gospel anthem, with a

passionate call-and-response format.

Page 69.

Spontaneous reactions from everyone in the church.

EXT. STREET

The gorgeous, exciting MUSIC pours into the street.

Everyone turns to look.  Windows open and people glance

out. The street takes on a new movement.

INT. CHAPEL

The choir really lets loose flow.

Lawanda and her friends peer in at the back door of the

chapel.  Bishop O'Hara sees them, and beckons them to come

in.

Sister Alma, inspired by Christy and the choir, burns up

the organ with a solo.  More people from the street begin

to enter; tentative, curious, drawn by the music.

At the end of the solo, Christy makes a gesture to the

choir, and each member produces a tambourine.  The chapel

is full of energy, music and life.

Page 70.

Mary Robert sings, really letting the power of her voice

ring out.  She is astonishingly good.

The new visitors to the church begin to clap in rhythm to

the music, and after a few beats, the nuns join in.  Mother

Superior is aghast.

The choir builds to a huge gospel finish, all keeping

their eyes on Christy.

After the final note, everyone in the chapel is

exhilarated -- everyone except Mother Superior.  Christy

looks out at the congregation that has increased by a dozen

or more, including Lawanda and her friends.  Christy looks

happier than she has in years.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

The members of the choir are all gathered outside Mother

Superior's office, leaning close to the door and listening

to her harangue Christy.  They are surprised to find

themselves joined suddenly by Bishop O'Hara, and part to

let him through.  He leans down to the keyhole and listens.

INT. OFFICE

Mother Superior is livid.

Page 71.

Christy is crestfallen.  There is a KNOCK on the door, and

O'Hara enters.  The other members of the choir are in

behind him like sardines.

Page 72.

Christy has just been eating this up with a spoon.

Mary Patrick jumps forward.

Page 73.

EXT. CONVENT - DAY

The nuns are out in force, painting the walls of the

convent, mostly with rainbows and flowers and bright,

shining suns.  The CAMERA PANS to Christy, who is adding

her own original touch to the mural, using cans of spray

paint.  Christy's section includes an image of a nun in a

miniskirt and spike heels, accompanied by neon letters that

read "St. Kate!"  People gather in the street, watching the

nuns' activities.  The convent begins to crackle with

energy and life.

A drug deal is going on in a house up the street, but the

DEALERS give only a curious glance to the action at the

convent.

INT. MOTHER SUPERIOR'S WINDOW

From the window of her office, Mother Superior watches the

painters and feels her control slipping away.

EXT. STREET - LATER

Christy leads the members of the choir down the middle of

the street.  They get lots of attention each step of the

way.  As each nun raps, the other nuns make rhythmic boom-

box noises.

Page 74.

The parade goes on, the crowd gathers, and a general air

of jubilance prevails.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

The rehearsal room is filled with high energy as the choir

is separated into several groups.  Christy has got the

whole thing running like a disciplined Broadway cast.

Mary Patrick leads one group in the corner as they

practice synchronized movements with tambourines.  Colorful

streamers are tied to the tambourines, and they make

colorful patterns in the air.

Sister Alma pounds the piano with newfound energy, as Mary

Robert and the sopranos reach higher and higher for notes

they've only dreamed of in the past.

Christy and Mary Lazarus have corralled the rest of the

nuns into a practice of intricate dance steps, somewhat

like the Temptations in skirts.  Mary Lazarus keeps the

beat with a yardstick.

EXT. CRACK HOUSE - NIGHT

One of the drug dealers stands outside the crack house as

a car suddenly pulls up to the curb.  He starts toward the

car as the DRIVER rolls down the window, but before he gets

there, Christy and several nuns surround the car.

Page 75.

The nuns give him room, and the Driver zips off down the

street.  A small crowd has begun to gather, and it is

growing by the moment, murmuring encouragement for the

nuns.  Christy turns to the Dealer, as other cars drive

slowly past.

Page 76.

The Dealer's eyes turn ugly as he takes a gun from his

pocket.  Mary Patrick steps forward.

The Dealer glances at the surly crowd, then gives the nuns

a disgusted look.  He puts the gun away.

The Dealer turns and walks back to his house with anger.

The crowd APPLAUDS and CHEERS.

The picture suddenly becomes GRAINY, and we hear the voice

of a NEWS REPORTER.

CAMERA PULLS BACK and we see a TV screen with an image of

the nuns and neighbors still celebrating.  On top of the TV

are several framed photographs of Vince Laflocca, his wife

and children.

INT. VINCE LaROCCA'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

CONNIE LaROCCA, Vince's wife, watches the TV NEWS STORY

and calls to Vince in the kitchen.

Carrying a roast beef sandwich and a can of beer, Vince

appears from the kitchen and glances at the TV screen to

see a shot of the convent.  He looks at Connie and makes a

sour face.

Page 77.

Vince turns away from the TV just as a closeup of Christy

appears on the screen.

Vince leaves the room, and we see Christy again as she

leads the choir.

INT. EDDIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Eddie is cooking spaghetti in his efficiency apartment and

watching the NEWS on TV at the same time.  He pours himself

a glass of wine and stirs the spaghetti sauce.

Eddie all but spits out his wine.  His eyes are wide as he

watches Christy being interviewed.  In one stride, he grabs

his hat and coat and is out the door on the run.

EXT. CONVENT - DAY

The Sunday morning bell is CHIMING as crowds of people

stream into the convent.  The entire neighborhood looks

cleaner, and the people walk with a spring in their step.

Three local TV stations have remote news crews on the scene

doing follow-ups on the story.

INT. CHAPEL HALLWAY

Last in line, Christy follows the other choir members down

a hallway toward the chapel.  Suddenly, a hand reaches out

and grabs her, and a second hand covers her mouth as she is

pulled into an empty cell.

INT. CELL

Shocked and terrified, Christy struggles to free herself,

but is suddenly relieved to see that her abductor is Eddie.

Page 78.

Eddie releases her, and she falls onto the bed.

Eddie sits on the bed beside Christy.

Page 79.

Eddie and Christy are gazing into each other's eyes; they

are just about to kiss.  Their lips are less than an inch

apart.

Eddie and Christy jump apart, their intimacy has

frightened them both, particularly given Christy's outfit,

and their location.

Christy goes to the door.

Christy begins to leave, and then she turns, filled with a

performer's excitement.

Page 80.

Christy hurries toward the chapel, leaving Eddie to shake

his head and wonder.

INT. CHAPEL

Sister Alma plays the organ, and the choir hums quietly as

Christy addresses the congregation.  Cameras from several

TV stations are focussed on her from various places in the

chapel.

Sister Alma starts playing a doo-wop vamp.  Mary Patrick

and Mary Robert step forward from the choir, standing

beside Christy the way the Ronelles used to do.

Page 81

The full choir sings back-up while Christy, Mary Patrick

and Mary Robert perform intricate girl group choreography.

Sister Alma is surrounded by several STREET KIDS who play

guitar, bass and drums to accompany the organ and choir.

Lawanda and her friends sit in a pew, moving joyously to

the music.

Eddie stands in the back of the chapel, watching a Christy

he has never seen before.  Christy is now glowing with

happiness and confidence.

As the song continues, we see the chapel is packed to the

rafters.  A tin bucket is passed around as a collection

plate, and it overflows with money.

EXT. CONVENT

Church services are over, and happy people stream out of

the convent, but they don't hurry home.  Standing in

groups, they talk pleasantly and make plans for the day.

There is a real sense of neighborhood up and down the

block.

Eddie comes down the steps, glances back at the convent,

smiles to himself, then crosses the street to his car.

Page 82.

INT. CHAPEL

Christy and the choir stare at the collection plate that

is filled with money.

Everyone looks at Christy with astonishment.

Everyone's attention suddenly turns to Bishop O'Hara as he

approaches.

The choir gathers around O'Hara with curiosity.

The choir reacts with an excited buzz:  "The Council of

Cardinals!", "What shall we sing?", etc.

Mother Superior appears, from the center aisle.

Page 83.

All the nuns look at one another.  Then, slowly, one by

one, they all raise their hands.

Mother Superior is pure steel at this moment; her

expression betrays no emotion.  Christy, on the other hand,

is quite confused.

Page 84.

The nuns cheer, and cluster around Christy, chattering

about the upcoming concert, as Mother Superior strides off.

INT. MOTHER SUPERIOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Seated at her desk, Mother Superior glances up as Christy

enters.

Mother Superior continues with her paperwork as Christy

picks up the phone.

With mixed emotions, Christy speaks softly.

Mother Superior is a very interested eavesdropper.

Page 85.

Christy hangs up the phone.  She looks at Mother Superior.

Page 86.

Christy, frustrated, leaves the room.  Mother Superior

looks up, she is truly torn, a proud woman unsure of her

choices.

EXT. CONVENT - NIGHT

The moon casts shafts of silver light down to the

courtyard of the convent.  Most of the lights in the

neighborhood are out at this late hour.

INT. CONVENT KITCHEN - NIGHT

The kitchen is dark, lit only by a flickering candle

carried by Christy.  Three more candles appear, carried by

Mary Robert, Mary Patrick and Mary Lazarus.  The door to

the freezer opens, and light spills out.  Christy removes

several pints of ice cream and distributes them to the

nuns.

Page 87.

Christy and the nuns sit on stools, enjoying their ice

cream by candlelight.

Page 88.

Christy and the nuns qiggle, and continue eating their ice

cream, in a spirit of true friendship.

Mother Superior watches this scene, hidden in the shadows

by the door to the kitchen.  She has begun to see Christy

in a new light.  She looks thoughtful, and walks off.

INT. LAS VEGAS POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY

Tate sits at his desk in the detective room, reading the

sports section.  HENRY PARKER, the accountant for the

police department, looks stressful as he enters the room

and heads for Eddie's glassed-in office.  Tate glances up

as Parker passes his desk.

Parker looks annoyed -- he doesn't like deviations from

procedure -- but after a moment of indecision, he sets the

file folder on Tate's desk and walks away.

Tate finishes the newspaper and shoves it aside.  Bored,

looks at his watch, then flips the file folder open and

glances at its contents;  routine money vouchers for

equipment, supplies, etc.  Tate is about to close the

folder and shove it aside when something catches his eye.

He examines a money voucher for a generous donation to St.

Katherine's Convent in San Francisco.  It only takes a

moment to put two and two together, and Tate scrambles for

his phone and dials a number.

INT. CORRIDOR

Henry Parker waits for the elevator.  When it opens, he's

surprised to see Eddie step out.

Page 89.

Eddie nods and moves on as Parker enters the elevator.

After a few steps, Eddie suddenly looks disturbed.  He

picks up his pace.  A little panicky, he begins to jog

toward the squad room.

INT. VINCE'S OFFICE

Vince is on the telephone.  He signals Joey and Willy, and

they move quickly toward him.

Vince begins to write down the address.

INT. SQUAD ROOM

Tate is hunched over the telephone, talking quietly with

his back to the rest of the room.  The voucher for St.

Katherine's is in his hand as Eddie moves quickly toward

him.

Tate hangs up the phone and BOOM!  Eddie hits him from

behind like a linebacker, drilling him to the floor.  Other

detectives look up from their desks with confusion and

alarm.  Eddie pins Tate to the wall and snatches the

voucher from his hand.

Clarkson and another detective restrain Eddie before he

can hit Tate.

Nobody dares even question Eddie at this moment, and two

detectives drag Tate away.  Eddie grabs Tate's phone and

dials long distance.

Clarkson dials quickly.  Eddie listens to Tate's telephone

as it RINGS and RINGS and RINGS.

INT. CONVENT - DAY

All the nuns are in the chapel as the choir rehearses a

hymn, along with Gina and her girlfriends.  Those who are

not in the choir clap their hands in rhythm.  War in the

background, we can hear the telephone RINGING.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Eddie's police car streaks past an entrance ramp with the

SIREN screaming.  It blazes through traffic, weaving in and

out at breakneck speeds.  A moment later, Joey and Willy

pull onto the highway at a fast rate.  The race is on, with

Eddie securely in the lead.

INT. CONVENT - DAY

In the rehearsal room, the choir members are putting on

their robes.  Christy and several nuns are all trying to

primp in front of one small mirror.

Christy looks out the window, but sees no bus.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Eddie's police car streaks toward L.A.

Page 91.

EXT. CONVENT - DAY

The neighborhood has turned out to see the choir off.

Banners hang from the fire escapes of the building across

the street:  "ST. KATE'S - THE GREATEST!", "GOOD LUCK

TONIGHT!"

A Catholic school bus pulls up to the convent and parks in

front.  Several nuns in choir robes come outside and hurry

onto the bus.  A moment later, Eddie's police car streaks

up to the side entrance of the convent, parking around the

corner from the bus.

INT. CONVENT

Eddie runs into the convent and finds Mother Superior at

the bottom of the stairs.

Mother Superior points up the stairs.

Mother Superior looks alarmed as Eddie takes the stairs

two at a time.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM

Looking out the window, Mary Robert sees the bus.

Everyone makes a final check of their appearance, and then

the group leaves the room to head for the bus.  Mary Robert

and Mary Patrick are the last to leave, except for Christy.

Christy primps in the mirror one last time, then leaves

the room.  She is puzzled to suddenly see Eddie running

toward her from a side staircase.

Page 92.

Eddie grabs her hand and pulls her toward the side

staircase.

Christy and Eddie hurry down the steps to the side

entrance, and she almost trips on her choral robes.  Eddie

opens the door and starts outside, but Christy stops in her

tracks.

Eddie jerks her hand, and Christy follows him reluctantly

to the car.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR

Eddie takes off at a fast clip up the street.  As the car

cruises through an intersection, Christy looks back at the

bus with confusion and sadness.  She sees the other nuns

rushing back into the convent to look for her.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM

Several members of the choir rush into the room with panic

in their eyes.

Page 93.

The HORN on the school bus blows loudly down in the

street.

The nuns are calmed by the tone of Mary Patrick's voice.

They leave the room to join the others on the bus.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Eddie's police car streaks through crowded streets.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR

Christy still looks unsettled.

Eddie glances at her, impressed by the influence the

convent has had.

Page 94.

EXT. CONVENT - DAY

Joey and Willy park their car in front of the convent, get

out quickly and climb the steps to the front door.  They

ring the bell.

Lawanda and her friends watch Joey and Willy pounding on

the convent door.

Joey and Willy run past the girls, get into their car and

take off.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

Eddie glances at the dashboard and sees that the fuel

gauge is close to empty.  He wheels into a gas station and

pulls up to the tanks.  Christy starts to open the door,

but he stops her.

He lets her go, then gets out to pump gas.

INT. WOMEN'S ROOM

Christy enters the bathroom; it is deserted.  She fondles

her rosary beads, and sinks to her knees.  This position

doesn't work for her; she stands.  She looks around her;

she glances up, toward heaven.  She decides to do things

simply, and speaks in a matter-of-fact tone.

Page 95.

Suddenly, Christy hears the toilet FLUSH in the next

bathroom.

Suddenly, Christy hears "AVE MARIA" coming from a radio or

TV outside the bathroom.  She looks up; a ray of sunlight

illuminates a grimy, dime-store Christmas tree ornament

hanging from a room deodorizer.  The ornament is a glittery

angel; it sparkles in the light.

Christy leaves the bathroom, still not quite sure.

EXT. GAS STATION

Christy looks through the grimy window of the gas station

office.  A bored Mechanic is watching a small portable TV.

On the TV is an episode of "THE FLYING NUN":  Sally Field,

in full habit, is soaring along.

Suddenly, Christy hears the loud ROAR of a motorcycle

starting up over by one of the gas pumps.  The BIKER turns

and looks at Christy:  he has long hair, and a beard and

moustache, and he looks, well, a bit like Jesus.

Christy runs up to the Biker..

Page 96.

Christy swings onto the back seat; the Biker puts his

Harley in gear and flies down the street.  Eddie is shocked

as he drops some money on the ground and jumps into his car

to follow.

EXT. ST. MATTHEW'S CATHEDRAL - DAY

We see a network truck parked in front of the landmark

cathedral.

INT. CHAPEL

There is a sense of chaos in the chapel as TECHNICIANS set

up television equipment, and Mother Superior leads the

choir as it rehearses.  Near the back of the chapel, Bishop

O'Hara looks concerned over the performance of the choir. A

CARDINAL walks up to Bishop O'Hara.

The choir seems very demoralized as they finish the hymn.

Mary Patrick is close to tears.

Clapping his hands briskly, the FLOOR DIRECTOR suddenly

steps forward from behind the TV cameras and hustles the

choir away from the altar.

Dispirited, the choir leaves the altar and walks toward

the back of the church.

Page 97.

EXT. LOS ANGELES STREET

The motorcycle flies through the streets, breaking every

traffic law on the books.  Christy's robe flaps behind her

in the wind, and she has a wide smile as she rides.  As

passersby stare at her, she holds out two fingers and

blesses them.

EXT. ST. MATTHEW'S CATHEDRAL

Mary Robert stands alone in front of the cathedral,

wringing her hands with worry.  Suddenly, her face

brightens like the dawn as she sees Christy ride up.

INT. CATHEDRAL

Christy and Mary Robert rush down a side corridor, turn a

corner and see two TV Technicians standing near some cables

with the letters of the network embroidered on the backs of

their jackets.  Christy rushes up to them and taps them on

the shoulders.

The two Technicians turn toward her, and she is horrified

to see they are. Joey and Willy.  Christy gasps as Willy

sticks a gun in her ribs.  Joey smiles at her.

Joey opens a door that leads to an alley behind the

cathedral.  Mary Robert looks confused.

Christy suddenly lifts her knee into Willy's groin, and he

buckles over.  She scrambles for the gun, but Joey beats

her to it.  Christy looks frantically at Mary Robert.

Revived Willy lunges for Mary Robert and grabs her.  The

two men hustle the two struggling nuns out the door to the

alley.

Page 98.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Joey and Willy wrestle the two nuns to the open door of

their car.  They shove Christy and Mary Robert into the

back seat, and Willy climbs in next to them.

Joey starts the car, and it takes off with SQUEALING

tires.  Willy has his gun pointed at Christy, who sits

beside Mary Robert.

The car comes to a stop at an intersection.  Christy

reaches across Mary Robert and opens the car door.  She

shoves Mary Robert into the street.

Mary Robert executes a perfect somersault onto the

sidewalk.  She looks to heaven, crosses herself and runs

back to the cathedral.

Willy grabs Christy before she can escape.

Joey takes off again.

Page 99.

EXT. STREET

Eddie's car is tied up in traffic, but he turns on his

blinker lights and peels over to the opposite lane.  Cars

stop to let him through.

INT. ST. MATTHEW'S CATHEDRAL - DAY

In the rehearsal room, Mary Robert has just finished

telling the nuns what happened to Christy.

Mother Superior suddenly steps forward.

The nuns all react with shock and emotion.

Page 100.

The nuns all look to Mother Superior for an answer.

All the nuns hurriedly cross themselves.

Mother Superior leads the way out the door.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

The Driver sits at the wheel of the school bus, reading a

sleazy novel.  He looks up as the nuns all converge on the

door.

Page 101

The Driver opens the door.

The nuns are all zooming past the Driver, onto the bus.

Mary Lazarus grabs the Driver's sleazy novel, confiscating

it. The Driver starts the engine.  As the bus drives off,

Eddie's car streaks INTO THE SCENE and parks in front of

the cathedral.

INT. ST. MATTHEW'S CATHEDRAL

Eddie rushes into the lobby and sees Bishop O'Hara.

Eddie turns and races back toward the car.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT - NIGHT

Several small planes are parked on the tarmac.

Mother Superior and the nuns are arguing with the MANAGER

of the airport, a grouchy guy in grease-stained overalls.

The Manager starts back toward his office.

Page 102.

The voice has a powerful ring of authority to it, and the

Manager looks around.

There is a pause, as the Manager stares at the nuns in

horror.

The nuns begin to leave.

EXT. NIGHT SKY - LATER

A plane sweeps through the desert sky, headed for Las

Vegas.  Through the windows of the plane, we see nuns

staring out at the glittering city in the distance.

INT. MOONLIGHT CASINO - NIGHT

Packed with gamblers, the room is a flurry of activity.

Joey works his way through the crowd, then spots Vince near

the money cage.

Page 103.

Vince follows Joey out of the casino with a grim

expression.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

Vince and Joey enter a storage room that is cluttered with

boxes.  Christy is tied to a chair in the back of the room,

with Willy standing guard over her.

Christy sits very calmly, despite the anger she is in.

She seems distinctly nun-like in her radiant serenity.

Christy does not reply.

Vince, Willy and Joey all look at each other, perplexed.

Vince stands; the charm hasn't worked.  He's getting

angry.

Page 104.

Vince grabs the front of Christy's habit and squeezes it

tightly around her throat.

This really throws Vince, and angers him further.  He

glares at Christy, and then releases her.  He turns to Joey

and Willy.

Joey and Willy look a little unsure as Vince storms out of

the room.

INT. PLANE

The nuns are mesmerized by the bright skyline with its

colorful flashes of neon.

The plane sets down at the Vegas airport.  Mother Superior

and the nuns climb out.

INT. BAR AREA

Joey and Willy find Vince near the bar.

Page 105.

They all look happy with this solution as Joey and Willy

leave.

INT. STOREROOM

Christy still shows no signs of fear as Joey and Willy

take out their guns.

Page 106.

Joey points his gun at Christy's left temple, and Willy

points his gun at her right temple.

Christy closes her eyes.

Neither man shoots.  They look at each other with anger.

Christy opens her eyes.

EXT. LAS VEGAS HELIPORT

The nuns leave the terminal and stand on the sidewalk out

front.

Mary Patrick is pointing to a group of billboards that

feature huge ads for the local hotels and casinos.  The

center billboard has a splashy picture of a roulette wheel,

the Elvis impersonator, and Christy and the Ronelles.  The

bottom part of the billboard shows the name of the

Moonlight Casino and Lounge.

Page 107.

INT. CASINO

Once again, Joey and Willy find Vince.

Joey and Willy are very confident about this solution.

They strut off, pleased with themselves.

Page 108.

EXT. LAS VEGAS AIRPORT - NIGHT

Eddie strides out of the airport; he took a later flight

than the nuns.  A squad car is waiting; Clarkson beckons

him.

Eddie jumps in the car.  Clarkson turns on the red bubble

light and the SIREN, and the car zooms off.

INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

Joey and Willy return to the storage room, looking

confident of their mission this time.  Christy glances up

at them as they enter, and Willy begins to untie her.

He works the ropes free, and Christy rubs her wrists to

get circulation back again.

Christy suddenly drops to her knees and begins to pray.

As Joey and Willy bend down to help her up, Christy

suddenly grabs their neckties in each hand.  With a fierce

jerk, she pulls the neckties with all her might, smashing

Joey's head against Willy's.

Page 109.

Stunned, Joey and Willy stagger backward, holding their

heads.  Christy scrambles out the door while the two men

groan in pain.

INT. CORRIDOR

Joey and Willy burst out of the room with guns drawn.  At

the far end of the corridor, they spot a glimpse of black

clothing as Christy starts down the stairs.

They run quickly after her.

INT. STAIRWAY

Christy runs down the stairs as a SHOT rings out.  Christy

screams and runs even faster.

INT. CASINO

A door swings open into the casino, and Christy appears,

looking frantic.  A MUFFLED SHOT is heard behind her, and

she sprints into the casino.

Seconds later, Joey and Willy appear.

Willy hurries away to find Vince, and Joey starts

searching the crowd.

EXT. THE MOONLIGHT HOTEL AND CASINO

Three cabs ROAR up in front of the building and nuns

tumble out.

INT. CASINO ENTRANCE

The nuns enter the casino and stop dead in their tracks.

Before them is a large room filled with glitter and sin,

the SOUND of jackpots and crap tables.

In unison, the nuns all cross themselves.

The nuns spread to every part of the room, looking for

Christy.

Page 110.

INT. CASINO

A blackjack table; a game is in progress, with several

players.  Mary Patrick rushes up to the table.

The CROUPIER and the players stare at the two nuns.

INT. CASINO

Christy is making her way past a roulette table.

Suddenly, she sees Joey coming toward her, making his way

through the crowd.  Christy grabs the arm of a SALESMAN

playing roulette.

Christy looks up to heaven.

Joey stands at the opposite side of the roulette table,

glaring at Christy.  The crowd around the table watches

Christy for a moment, then they all put their chips down on

Red 21.

Joey starts working his way around the table toward

Christy as the Croupier spins the wheel.  The ball falls

into a slot.

Everyone at the table turns toward Christy, outraged.  She

gives them a reprimanding look.

Christy suddenly realizes that Joey is almost at her side.

She shoves the Salesman against him and runs away.

Page 111.

INT. CASINO

We see two long rows of slot machines, with gamblers

working every machine.

Willy appears at one end of the row, scanning the area for

Christy.  He sees a nun crossing at the far end of the row,

and she moves out of sight.  Willy heads in that direction.

Someone hits a JACKPOT behind him, and he turns toward the

sound.  As he does. he sees another nun crossing at the

opposite end of the row of machines.  Willy turns again --

now he sees three nuns crossing at the opposite end.  He

looks confused, and doesn't know which way to turn.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Eddie drives up in the squad car and parks near the back

door.

Eddie jumps out of the car and hurries inside.

INT. BLACKJACK AREA

As Christy moves past a blackjack game, she suddenly sees

Vince moving toward her.  Turning quickly, she moves away

from Vince, but suddenly sees Joey coming toward her from

the opposite direction.  Trapped for a moment, she has

panic in her eyes.  Suddenly she is flanked by Mother

Superior and Mary Patrick.

The nuns surround Christy and head through the crowd in a

cluster.  Joey and Vince pursue them from different

directions.  Just before they catch them, Mother Superior

barks an order.

The nuns split up, each taking a different direction.

Vince and Joey look bewildered.

Page 112.

Vince, Joey and Willy each pick a nun and follow her.

Vince catches up to a nun, whom we only see from the rear.

He grabs her shoulder.

The nun spins around; it is Mother Superior.

Vince releases her and frantically searches the crowd

again.

Joey catches up with his nun, only to find it is Mary

Patrick.  The shell game has worked; Christy has escaped

for the moment.

INT. SLOT MACHINE AREA

We FIND Eddie scanning the floor and seeing nuns spread

out everywhere.  He talks quietly into his walkie-talkie.

INT. CASINO

Vince, Joey and Willy run into each other in the center of

the casino.

All the nuns suddenly come together, and see that the

exits are blocked by Vince and his hoods.  Vince spots

Christy in the center of the group.

Christy sees Vince pointing at her.

Page 113.

Christy runs toward a set of glass doors set off to one

side.  The other nuns follow her.

Vince, Joey and Willy head for the lounge.

Across the room, Eddie sees Christy and the cluster of

nuns head through the glass doors.  He barks into his

walkie-talkie.

INT. LOUNGE

The lounge is deserted between shows, and all the lights

are out.  The mobsters enter with guns drawn.

Willy moves off to find the light switch.  There is a

flash of black and white fabric behind some chairs.

And a third flash of fabric near the stage.

Willy has found the lights, and the lounge is suddenly

brightly lit.  The mobsters blink for a moment, then find

all the nuns bunched together in a corner, trying to find

an exit.

Page 114.

The nuns turn and face the mobsters, shielding Christy.

Christy steps forward, to the front of the stage.

Mother Superior steps forward.

Vince has had enough.  Facing Christy, he raises the gun

and points it right between Christy's eyes, only inches

away.  The nuns all recoil with horror.

BLAM!  The gun goes off, but Christy isn't hit.  She

blinks her eyes open, shocked to be alive.  Instead, it's

Vince who falls, crumpling to the floor, and clutching his

shoulder.

Across the room, Eddie holds a smoking police revolver.

The nuns all swarm around Christy joyously.

Page 115.

Christy breaks away from the jubilant nuns. She faces

Mother Superior.

Police pour into the room and gather up Joey, Willy and

Vince.  Eddie walks over to Christy and Mother Superior.

Mary Lazarus coughs, and points to her throat, as if she

has laryngitis.  All the other nuns imitate her.

Page 116.

ANGLE on Christy, watching this.  She grins.

Eddie takes Christy in his arms, and they begin a kiss.

As they do so, Vince struggles toward Christy, as two cops

hold him back.  He is furious.

EXT. ST. MATTHEW'S CATHEDRAL

People are pouring into the cathedral.  Among them we see

many Cardinals in their red uniforms.

INT. ST. MATTHEW'S CATHEDRAL

The choir has gathered together in a small room off the

main chapel.  They are putting finishing touches on their

choral robes, and are waiting nervously to go on.

Page 117.

Christy and Mary Patrick embrace.  Mary Patrick is

tearful.

Christy and Mary Lazarus embrace.

Christy and Mother Superior embrace.

INT. CHAPEL

The chapel is packed to the rafters.  The first few rows

of pews are occupied by Cardinals.  Television cameras

glide up and down the aisles, angling for shots of the

altar.

Page 118.

The Choir stands together on the altar with Christy in

front. Behind them stands a much larger, all-city choir.

Christy gives the nod to Sister Alma, and the organ vamp

begins.

Page 119.

In the front row, Mother Superior is trying to resist the

music.  She gives in, and starts bobbing her head to the

beat.  Beside her, Eddie looks very proud as his eyes meet

Christy's.

The entire congregation is ecstatic, as the song concludes

with a glorious final flourish.

FADE OUT:

THE END

