We open on a GUARD sitting in front of a sentry post. He is

wearing a heavy fur hat that covers his ears and a military-

jacket. Behind him is a list of instructions (in Russian).

He 'sucks in a cigarette as though he's a drowning man lookin

for oxygen. A CAR comes to a stop by the sentry post, the,

guard looks, asks a couple of questions and is given an

his head in the car. A gun barrel is promptly stuck in his

face and a couple of angry words emanate from the back, the

guard jumps back and quickly raises the barrier.

Franky knows discussion is futile. He flips the case open

and pulls out a transparent plastic bag full of American

dollars. The package is pulled out of the window, the driver

doesn't move, we dissolve for a passage of time, the anxiety

is more than obvious, but Four Fingers can do nothing. All

of a sudden a package comes through the window and the car

speeds off without waiting for an inspection of the delivery.

George looks at the weapon and can see that he's interrupting.

George isn't too bright

Tommy turns round to Boris with a slight shake of his head.

Boris chews this for a second.

He tosses the coin

Tommy goes to interrupt but he doesn't get a chance

Vin is confused as to this last statement.

.=..        . That Russian saves the shooters that        "'

B TT's car moves off.    The black guys follow.

Pointing to the guns.

Sol looks at the gun and frowns, "what does he know about

replicas"? He pulls the trigger. He fires one shot. It is

very loud, the gun goes off near Tyrone's ear, he buckles in

ends in disaster, all the windows shatter including the

windshield (but the glass stays put). Tyrone regains some

control over the car.

(trunk) has flown open and Boris the Blade tries to lift

He grabs his groin and circles his finger and his temple

The black guys have followed BTT and Hands and are waiting

outside, readying themselves for action.        .

Tyrone can't hear a thing.

Sol taps Tyrone on the shoulder.

The black guys enter. BTT has just finished his phone call

and sat down.   .     -.

BTT shakes his head in amazement.

Tyrone can't hear this request.

He still can't hear him.       This is minorly embarrassing.

Sol cocks the gun and Tony pulls a sarcastic 'I am shocked'

face.

Vinny takes aim.

Vin goes to hit him with the gun but it's caught by Tony,

Vin tries to pull the nose out of Tony's hand but he can't

move it. Sol steps forward and raises his gun.

Vinny cocks his gun.   There is a pause and eventually Tony

lets go of it.

Tony starts to build himself a complicated looking weapon

under the table, unseen by the black guys. He takes bits

out of one sock and bits out of another sock.

We cut to the shell shocked brothers, and the almost

completely built weapon.

They stare on. The brothers have lost this one and they

know it. They start to reverse. BTT lets the odd chicken

cluck out the corner of his mouth, Vinny misses his step and

waves his gun about in a futile effort to look mean. They

back away into the corridor down to the back door of the

cf. . .

They turn and Errol is waiting for them.

They go out of one room into another, and Errol shuts the

door behind them. Vin looks uncomfortable. Another door is

opened and a man brings out Lincoln. Lincoln is in bad shape

and is relieved to see familiar faces, they are now shut in

a room .

We look at the table where we see three large kitchen knives

sitting provocatively. Tyrone rushes for one of the blades

grabs it and runs at Vin, Vin sidesteps and Tyrone keeps

running straight into the arms of Errol who raises his gun

at the last moment. Tyrone slides the blade into Errol 's

ribs and Errol fires a shot straight at Tyrone. The bullet

passes through Tyrone and hits John in the throat . Vin,

Lincoln and Sol are left wondering what the fuck has just

happened .

Sol goes for one, and Vin goes for the other.

There is a wake in motion. We cut to Micky and Turkish. It

is obvious that a lot of hard core drinking has been going

on, and there is an Irish band playing. The is a coffin in

the middle of a caravan that is closed for obvious reasons

i t ' s surrounded by heavy looking lads. The is a man dancing

on one of the tables.

THIS SCENE I SHALL BE FILLING IN SHORTLY BUT I AM AFRAID YOU

HAVE TO WAIT TILL I HAVE BEEN TO A IRISH WAKE. ALL AS I

KNOW IS THAT RATHER IRONICALLY THEY ARE FUN. HOWEVER I LIKE

JUXTAPOSITIONS OF MICKY SINGING AND CRYING SIMULTANEOUSLY.

All three black guys are sitting in front of BTT and Hands

and Doug. There is silence as the white guys have just been

told something disturbing. BTT eventually breaks the silence

Cut to Hands who's thinking.

BTT and Hands are at the bar.

Pause: the barman looks truculent.

The barman walks down the end of a bar and picks up the phone.

He sticks his finger by the side of his nose and inhales.

KEN, another of Brick Top's men, appears from somewhere and

approaches Tony with another heavy, SEAN.

They do and end up in a corridor. The door .shuts behind

them and the door in front hasn't yet opened. Ken turns

around and faces Tony.

There is a pause.    The situation is volatile.

Ken knows it's on.

BTT takes a step forward and puts his hand, into the back of

his trousers. He starts to growl.

Pause to take in what has just been said then he continues.

The door opens and they are interrupted by another HEAVY.

Ken is relieved by the interruption, and he leads the way

with a truculent "you're lucky" stare. They enter Brick

Top's office.

Interrupted

Btt walks to the bar.   Ken is sitting there with Sean.

If you listen carefully, you will hear a slight zip of flies

being undone.

We cut back to Brick Top and Hands

BTT returns to them - there is a scream from Ken

Brick top frowns at Ken, and Ken shuts up quickly.

Tony shrugs

Ken shows off a wet-sided jacket and a damp set of trousers.

Tony shrugs. Brick Top puts his hands in to his pocket and

withdraws the stone. We cut to Hand's expression.

Brick Top passes the stone to Hands. All goes quiet while

everybody focuses on the stone. Hands lifts it up to his

eye.

He drops the stone: it smashes on the ground.

We crash track in to Brick Top's expression of shock.

The four black guys are trying to pick the lock of the vault,

having been locked in it by Bullet Tooth, Hands and Doug.

The door opens.

A distant voice is shouting

We fade out of black to Micky's pov. Thisis shot in slow

motion. Micky opens his eyes, in the backof.a large van,

there is only one faint light that moodilyilluminates his

tired eyes.

Micky just yawns.

A temporary ring has   been erected, four scaffolding posts

with welded on hoops   make the arena, the ropes that are

threaded through the   hoops are industrial nylon and free of

padding. Around the    ropes it's starting to fill. Brick Top

approaches Salt Pete   and Jack 'the all seeing eye'.

Brick Top leaves with Ken.

Cut to a shot of some of Brick Top's heavies waiting in a

car outside the campsite.

Brick Top is standing in front of Micky whose eyes are still

semi open.

He turns his attention to Micky.

Cut to a shot of Brick Top's boys lighting a cigarette in

the car outside the pikies.

Micky appears from a small door at the back of the warehouse.

He approaches the ring accompanied with shouts of

encouragement and counter shouts. He's wearing a pair of

semi cut tracksuit bottoms and a t-shirt with grease marks

down the front. Turkish walks behind him, Micky still looks

bored. He climbs into the ring. Then from the same door as

the one through Micky came out walks a larger character with

a nose that appears to have seen countless rounds with a

frying pan: HORACE 'GOOD NIGHT1 ANDERSON.

We drift again into Micky's pov, his world is becoming more

and more surreal. He can faintly hear Turkish whispering

words to him, but he's not really listening. A bell comes

from somewhere, and Micky instinctively walks to the center

of the ring. "Good night" is already there, they pace one

another for a second or two, Micky avoids a punch or two and

then he takes a hard one and he knows it, we flash to white,

Micky's in trouble: he lets one of his missiles go and BANG

it shakes "good night" to his core, all goes quiet. We go

to super slow motion: his knees buckle and "good night" is

in trouble. Micky maintains a frown as he watches his

opponent's knees threaten to betray him. The crowd tries to

digest what is happening. After a period of silence reality

dawns. Brick Top mouths the words in silence."Don1t go down

you fucker". The crowd wants Micky to finish the job. But

common sense reins back the coup de grace. "Good night"

eventually regains control of his legs and stumbles forward,

after a few sleepy punches he starts to provide a serious

onslaught.

This goes on for two rounds (which is montage down to a few

seconds). We go in the mind of poor Micky. We break the

music just as it's starting to look dangerous... The bell

goes and Micky walks to the wrong corner. Turkish pulls him

back to his corner.

Micky goes out again his hands are low, BANG there is a flash

of white as Micky goes down in the dirt. Dust rises from

where he fell. He gets up quickly, his hands are still low,

BANG he goes down again, in no time he's up.

BANG: he hits the ground again and this time when he hits

the deck, he penetrates the dust covered floor, like i t ' s

made out of water. He falls through the water like he's

sinking; his eyes are open and he can't breathe, he continues

to fall, but he's unpanicked (he is now Micky 1). When Micky

1 looks up he can see himself in the corner of the ring takin

kidney punches from Good Night, he's winded and only semi-

conscious (this is Micky 2). Micky 1 makes the effort to

swim up and tries to penetrate the floor but he's stuck he

can't get through. Micky 2 takes more punishment in the

ring, as Micky 1 ' s hand continues to try to break the

underside of the floor but it stretches like rubber and forces

Micky 1 down again. Micky 1 looks up again and sees how

much trouble Micky 2 ' s in the ring. Micky 1 is panicking

now, he's running out of oxygen and Micky 2's being beaten,

Micky 1 starts -to sink again but now flames tickle the bottom

of his feet he looks up. and sees Micky 2 being smashed to

hell, his body eventually collapses and Micky 2 falls through

the floor. And as the latter falls through, Micky 1 manages

to rise from the depths and his punch manages to perforate

the surface. The punch continues its trajectory and has the

power to fell a red blooded rhino.... it catches "Good Night"

on the jaw and it's good night for "Good Night" it's unlikely

that he'll awake in the next hour. Dear oh dear everybody

is in trouble.

Again we cut to the reactions of the relevant parties.

Turkish jumps into the ring and grabs Micky.

Turkish pulls Micky away. It's not as hard as it might be

trying to get out, because the crowd seems to have found its

own disputes, chairs start to fly. Brick Top's boys are

frustrated in the mayhem. Brick Top calmly dials into his

mobile telephone. It rings.

Darren picks up the phone.

We pull back to see four slumped heads in the car and blood

staining the windscreen. Brick Top calmly puts the phone

down.

Brick Top is looking every which way and trying to get out

of there, accompanied by Ken.

They come out of a side entrance, their car pulls round the

corner and screeches to a halt. Brick Top opens the door as

he is about to get in, he's eyes widen to the size of saucers

as FOUR MEN (who we recognize from the wake) are sitting in

the place of his driver. They both have sawed-off shotguns

and empty four barrels into the chest of Brick Top and Ken.

The car spins away, leaving their twitching bodies on the

dirt.

Hands, Doug and Bullet Tooth have Vin, Sol and Bad Boy Lincol

in tow. They look at the front room of Lincoln's house.

They open the door.

This room is a complete mess. All the colony leather has

been chewed up beyond recognition. They all grimace at the

smell. The dog comes running up

BTT opens a window.       The dog looks extremely relieved to see

someone.

He points to a pile of chewed up cushions.

He walks over and finds the remains of the box.

All eyes focus on the dog.

All eyes focus on Tony.

.

Tony is not sure about this.

Hands does a movement that represents a knife across the

throat.

There is another pause

Tony looks positively unsure and rocks his head from side to

side.

Cut to Tony having some problems trying to get hold of the

awkward dog. The dog starts to squeak. Tony passes the

blade to Hands.

The dog isn't sure about this either.      Vin is in a panic and

suddenly.

Hands at the point of entry stops. Vinny hops over to the

stone and picks it up. Tony lets the dog stand but keeps a

grip oh the collar. The dog is relieved to be semi-liberated.

Hands is still on his knees armed with an incredulous stare.

Vinny holds it up. There's a sense of relief. He then throws

the stone, it cuts through the air. And the dog seeing

.another projectile runs to intercept it. There's a pause

while all now focus again on the dog. This is digested

literally and mentally. The dog recognizes all the attention

it's receiving. And goes through the motions of swallowing

it. Hands attempts an approach. The dog understandably

feels uncomfortable about the advancing vanguard and decides

emergency action is needed, and seeing the open window

launches itself out of it.

FADE TO BLACK

FADE UP

The pikies have moved overnight.

Hands, BTT and the black guys are back on the road.

Just then they see some caravans in the distance.

All the caravans are fastened to the back of cars. Vinny,

Sol, BTT and Hands are standing in front of Micky.

Vinny, Sol, BTT and Hands descend the steps, they look like

children with their toys taken away.

One of Micky's kids is on the bottom of the caravan steps as

the brothers walk by.

The kid turns away and goes back to squeezing a toy.   All

four of the chaps stop in their tracks.

Cut to shot of squeaky toy. We have seen this toy before.

Cut to freeze frame of Sol, Vin, BTT and Hands stopped dead

in their .tracks. They haven't turned to look over their

shoulders yet, but their eyes are turning to look.

THE END.

