copyright (c) 2002

by David Mamet

FADE IN:

EXT. WOODED HILLSIDE. DAY.

We see the drawn face of a young woman. Camera tracks with

her as she runs through the thick woods. She is exerting

herself heavily as she moves up a steep hillside. She looks

behind her quickly, and continues.

ANGLE, we see a young man, and then another, running through

the woods, out of breath. They are dressed in filthy BDU's,

and show several days growth of beard. The leader stops for

a moment, and looks around. The two men separate.

ANGLE, the  young woman, who has come to a small ledge, over

a ravine.  She stops, panting, and bends over, to attempt to

catch her  breath. She looks around, and looks back, her back

to a steep  wall, a steep drop before her.

ANGLE, the first young man, having come up to the spot

vacated by the young woman. In the BG we see his colleague.

He looks down, and sees movement in the brush below him, in

the ravine. He starts to descend, and then looks up.

ANGLE, the young woman, pulling herself up the steep

rockface. The young man regains the ledge and looks up.

Camera takes him around a bend in the ledge.

Standing here we discover ROBERT SCOTT. He is somewhat older

than the two men, he is very fit, also dressed in filthy

BDU's. He is making a note in a small notebook, which he

closes. Now, the two men look across the ravine at the young

woman, seen disappearing over a ridge.

The man looks around, and begins climbing up the rockface

behind him, pulling himself up, hand over hand by the roots

of trees. Several feet up, he falls on his back. He tries to

work himself to his knees and winces in pain. He looks to

Scott for help.

A pause, as the man tries again to get to his feet. Scott

looks up at the young woman on top of the ridge and gives

her a "hold" gesture. She stops, at his command. Scott nods,

as if to himself, and then kicks the young man in the ribs.

The man starts, his eyes grow, and he gets to his feet.

He moves into the now-standing young man, and hits him, not

heavily, but convincingly, several times.

He motions with his head. In the BG we see the young woman

nod, and begin running again. We see her, for a moment,

breast a hill, and disappear again...

ANGLE, on the young man, as he looks at Scott, empty, now,

of self-pity, as if he just realized something.

The young man begins to climb the rockface.

HOLD on Scott for a moment.

INT. TRAINING FACILITY. DAY.

A large, hand-painted sign hangs on the cinderblock wall of

the rough building. It reads:

In front of the sign walks the young woman we saw earlier.

She is exhausted, she has a towel wrapped around her neck.

Camera takes her to Scott, who is holding a cup of coffee,

and making notes in the small notebook we saw earlier.

She stands, waiting, as she finishes his note.

He starts away from her, and she raises her hand slightly,

to indicate she has something more to say. He turns back to her.

She nods, and walks off. Scott walks toward a mess tent. He

is joined by George Blane, a very military-looking figure of

an older man. He wears an informal fatigue outfit, mismatched

jacket and trousers, without insignia. Scott is greeted by

him, as they walk toward the mess tent. Scott shows the

notebook to Blane, and Blane refers from the notebook to

what we see are a group of eighty young men, in the mess

tent, two of them the men we saw on the hill. Blane takes

the notebook and walks off, as Scott enters the mess tent.

ANGLE HIS POV, Scott enters the tent. Several of the young

men react to him. He nods to them. Among them, we see the

young man Scott berated on the hill, who rises and comes

over to Scott.

ANGLE, on Scott, who sits, as a uniformed man brings him a

tinfoil tray with some food on it. Scott takes out a

stiletto from his pocket, presses a button and the blade

emerges. He begins to use it to cut up his meat. The young

man from the hill, Anton, stands sheepishly near Scott, till

Scott turns, acknowledging him.

Anton takes a card out of his pocket, the size of a credit

card, old, creased cardboard: It reads, "Rogers Rangers,

Rules for Engagement. 1782". There is a line drawing of a

man with a musket, and we read, on the card, beneath it,

boldtype rules for fighting guerilla style. Written on the

card, in old faded ink, "SGT. Anton, M. US. 3149584, United

States Special Forces." The young man (Anton) shows the card

to Scott.

As they speak, we see, in an insert, the printed rules -

"Dated 1759". "Rule 4: Tell the truth about what you see and

what you do - there is an army depending on us for correct

information. You can lie all you please when you tell other

folks about the Rangers, but don't never lie to a Ranger or

an Officer".

Scott pauses again. As he looks at the young man, who is

obviously unable to express his gratitude, and sense of

occasion.

Blane's Aide calls the men to order.

The men start to come to their feet, and leave the mess tent.

The exhausted men come to their feet, and into a line. They

are happy, and joking with one another. In the BG we see

those who failed the course, sitting apart, file onto a bus

which has just pulled up.

ANGLE on a young man, who looks out of the window.

ANGLE HIS POV. Twenty or so similarly exhausted men, with

dufflebags, are being shuffled onto the bus.

ANGLE, on the young man, Anton, as he exits the tent, who

stands next to Scott, outside the tent. Scott stands next to

an old, but pristine Mustang Cobra. He withdraws a small

dufflebag from the front seat, and looks up to see Anton

standing next to him.

ANGLE on Scott. As he thinks a very brief moment, as if

reluctant to become philosophical, and then turns back to Anton.

Anton shakes his head, sadly, at the spectacle of the failed

men.

Beat. Anton steps away.

The camera pans over the smiling faces of the eight very

proud young men.

ANGLE on Blane and Scott, off to the side.

Beyond them, we see the bus holding the failed candidates,

filling up.

These two men steps forward.

ANGLE, on Anton, nodding to himself at the proudest moment

of his life.

ANGLE, CU Scott, looking at him.

Camera takes Blane and Scott into a cinderblock building

which houses a shooting range. We see various housefronts,

and storefronts, and targets. A long table along one wall

holds a coffee urn. Blane draws two cups of coffee.

Through the open door we see Anton and Grossler, smiling,

entering the building. Anton comes into the room, and smiles

at Scott.

We see Scott look away, sadly. He shares a look with Blane,

drains his coffee cup, crumples it, throws it away. Blane

gestures to Scott, meaning, "Shall we begin?" Scott

hesitates for a moment, and then nods.

FOCUS.

ANGLE, on Scott, in the BG, as Blane steps forward to

address the two candidates.

Scott gestures to the Aide, "One Moment".

He gestures at a far door in the room.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he looks at the candidates, as they get

the picture.

Beat.

CU Scott  as he looks, interrogating the   two men, weighing

them, as  they look at each other. Beat.   Grossler starts to

advance  on Anton, in a fighting crouch.   Scott gestures to

the Aide  that that was what he wanted to   see.

The Aide lets Scott out of the back door.

EXT. CINDERBLOCK BUILDING. DAY.

Scott, showered, in civilian clothes, a lumberjacket and

jeans, comes out of the building, carrying a small, yellow

duffle-bag. He opens the trunk.

He takes the yellow bag, and puts it into the trunk which we

now see contains woodworking tools - old levels and planes

and saws. He closes the trunk. We see the young woman from

the first sequence, now in civilian clothes, conferring with

a colleague. She nods at him, and he responds. As he starts

to get into the car. A squad of exhausted men is marching

past. As they come to a halt one of the men turns in the

direction of Scott.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION TRAILER. DUSK.

A young worker in a hardhat, by a large gravel pit, at which

we find several earthmovers, idle. He is standing by a high

chainlink fence topped with barbed wire.

ANGLE HIS POV. Some half-mile away, the Mustang, heading in

his direction on a rough road. The young worker opens the

lock on the chainlink fence and swings it open.

We see a sign "McGarrity Construction Company" on the gate.

The young man walks back toward a construction trailer. We

see a red light blinking on a telephone on top of a littered

desk. The young worker enters the trailer hurriedly, and

opens a cabinet which we see contains several assault rifles,

and grenades. Another phone, its red light blinking, is

found in the cabinet. The young worker picks up this phone

quickly.

We see his face grow serious, as he begins to write on a pad.

INT. MUSTANG. DAY.

Scott, driving, comes around a bend.

ANGLE HIS POV. The construction trailer up ahead. We see the

young worker come out of the trailer, and stand in the road

giving a "Stop" signal to the car.

ANGLE EXT. THE CAR. We see Scott bring the Mustang to a stop,

and get, inquisitively, out of the car. We see the young

worker run up to him and hand him a sheet of paper. Scott

takes the paper and begins to read.

He looks up, to ask a question of the young worker. We see

the worker begin to respond, his body language saying

"That's all I know." As he starts to speak his words are

drowned out by the sound of a helicopter. Scott looks up.

ANGLE HIS POV. A helicopter, flying low.

ANGLE INT. THE HELICOPTER. A man in civilian clothes points

out Scott, on the ground, to the Pilot. Through the canopy

we see Scott and the construction canopy down below. The

helicopter goes into a tight turn.

ANGLE Scott. Above him, the helicopter goes into its turn,

and begins to descend in a field some fifty yards away.

ANGLE, the sheet of paper Scott holds. Is reads: "All hands."

Over the throbbing of the helicopter, we see Scott giving

directions about the car, to the young worker. Camera takes

Scott to the trunk, which he opens, and from which he

retrieves his gym bag. He hands the keys to the young worker,

and takes off, running, to the helicopter.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he is pulled up aboard, and the

helicopter takes off.

ANGLE, over the worker, watching the helicopter disappear.

INT. HELICOPTER. NIGHT.

Scott, asleep. As the helicopter banks low over the Charles

River and Harvard College. A Crewman shakes him awake.

ANGLE, EXT: the helicopter descends into the field of a

football stadium. A black suburban is waiting.

EXT. BOATHOUSE. CHARLES RIVER. NIGHT.

Seen through the windshield of a car.

ANGLE, a black, government Suburban pulls outside the

boathouse. We see scaffolding being erected outside the main

entrance.

Scott and several types in suits get out of the Suburban,

and proceed toward the door, over which is hung a large,

paint-spattered drape. A sign on a stanchion reads

"Temporarily Closed For Repairs".

ANGLE, INT. THE BOATHOUSE. The group pushes through the

drape, beyond which we see several men in suits, holding

assault rifles.

An older government type, MILLER, followed by an AIDE, walks

up to meet the group, the Aide motions to the armed guards

that Scott is to be admitted, that he is "okay". Miller

gestures to Scott that it will just be a moment. The Aide

hands Scott a sheaf of papers, and leads him through the

boathouse. We see the long skiffs up on their rests, the

Charles River beyond.

ANGLE on Scott. As Scott looks through the papers. Around

him we see communications equipment being hurriedly assembled.

ANGLE INSERT. The top sheet shows a color photo of a

phenomenally lovely redheaded girl in her teens. As Scott

talks, he leafs through the sheets to reveal several photos

of her and a man, obviously her father, holding her hand.

One is a print of a glossy magazine article.

ANGLE on them as they arrive at a small equipment room.

Through the door we see a young government type, Gaines, his

suitcoat off, his shoulder holster empty, being interrogated

by several colleagues.

He hands a small log book to Scott, and points to an entry.

Scott looks down the entries, and glances up, now and then,

at the man being interrogated.

The Aide shrugs, meaning, "That's it..."

Miller gestures to an associate, who comes forward, passing

photos to Scott, as Miller goes to look through the glass at

the young man being interrogated.

We are shown a photo of an Ivy League preppy chap around 18.

He is on a sailboat.

We see a photo, obviously from a school catalogue, of a

youngish bearded man, in front of a blackboard. We see

Miller in the BG finish his meeting and turn to the group.

The Aide hands him a sheet of paper, obviously a roster.

Scott, looking at the board. He puts down his head for a

moment, and blinks his eyes, trying to clear his head.

An Associate comes over and hands him a piece of paper.

Miller shakes his head.

ANGLE on Scott. CU. As he watches the interrogation of

Gaines in the next room. The young man begins to pick up his

coffee cup, and we see that it shakes.

ANGLE on Scott, as he gestures to Miller to look through the

glass, at the young man being interrogated, who is now seen

to be wiping his brow, and shaking his head. The young man

tries to take a sip of coffee, and spills it, inadvertently,

down his shirtfront. Scott exchanges a glance with Miller,

and walks into the equipment room, to the interrogation.

The man being interrogated, the government type, Gaines, is

in his early thirties. He is sweating and obviously

frightened. An Aide comes and stands by Scott.

ANGLE, on Miller in the interrogation room. Miller nods to

Scott, meaning "You know what to do."

ANGLE on Gaines, as Scott enters, the interrogators step

back for Miller, who is obviously their superior. He motions

them to continue.

Camera holds Scott throughout the following interchange,

with the suspect and questioners seen reflected in the glass

of the door.

Miller motions at Scott.

ANGLE on Miller, who gives an infinitesimal sign to Scott

who steps forward and slaps Gaines across the face.

He makes a move toward Gaines.

Miller gestures to a couple of the types who take Scott out

of the room and sit him forcefully, in a chair...cautioning

him to stay still.

Miller now stands by him.

HOLD on Scott who uses the pause to review the documents he

holds, the photos of the girl, of the Boyfriend, of the

Professor. He picks up another glossy magazine showing the

redheaded girl - the caption reads "America is Seeing Red".

Scott turns, to Miller, who is seen, beyond the door, in

conference with several government types.

Scott leaves the room, and is seen, on the outskirts of the

conference.

Throughout this section camera holds Scott. As he looks

through the file, the various photos, and notations, and

takes notes in as small pocket notebook, in which we also

see the small cardboard card of "Rogers Rangers Rules of

Engagement".

HOLD on Scott, at the back of the group, taking notes. We

see him holding several newsclippings. One of them shows the

girl, and the headline reads "America is Seeing Red."

We see the photo blown up, of the ravishingly beautiful

young girl with long red hair. It features a small, red

enamel crescent earring. The second photo shows the same

girl, in the same pose, but now her hair is short and

platinum blonde and spiky. The agent opens two boxes and

begins distributing the photos to the group.

An agent comes up and hands him a sheet of paper.

An Aide comes in, hurriedly.

Miller points at Scott, who rises.

Miller nods his appreciation.

Scott exits, and we HOLD on Miller giving orders to his group.

EXT. HARVARD YARD. NIGHT.

Two students, walking through the yard. They acknowledge a

uniformed security guard, who walks, with his back to us.

A slight, Asian young woman, her arms full of books, walks

toward the camera, hurrying. She indicates something, back

over her shoulder, and the guard, who is in front of the

camera, walking away, veers off in that direction.

EXT. VESTIBULE, HARVARD DORM. NIGHT.

A young man (MICHAEL BLAKE) is, furtively, working on

jimmying open one of a set of mailboxes. He senses something,

and turns.

ANGLE HIS POV. The Security Guard (Scott) standing just

beyond a glass door, looking in at him. Scott enters, coming

to camera.

The Boy, Blake, moves his hands away from his body, to show

a screwdriver. Scott motions him away from the mailbox,

which we see is in the process of being demolished. Scott

reads the name on the mailbox.

He starts to advance on Scott, who draws a nightstick, and

keeps him at bay.

ANGLE EXT. THE VESTIBULE. The young Asian girl, now walking

with a male friend, pass in front of the vestibule. Beyond

them we see Blake and Scott, as Blake motions to the mailbox,

and moves to the mailbox and takes out a letter.

ANGLE INT. THE VESTIBULE. On Scott, as he watches Blake take

a letter out of the jimmied mailbox.

INT. CORRIDOR, HARVARD DORM. NIGHT.

Blake and Scott, as they walk up to a door. Scott knocks on

the door.

He begins to fumble with keys at his belt.

ANGLE INT. THE ROOM. Several agents, obviously involved in

investigating the room, wearing plastic gloves, stop. One,

silently, unlocks the door.

We   see Scott enter the room, "miming" using a key, and turn

on   the light and look inside. We take him to her desk, where

he   finds several photos of her and her father - and a note

on   he desk, reading "Dear Dad-Thanks for coming-signed %-)".

We see the boy, Blake, out in the corridor, unable to see

into the room.

ANGLE, in the hall, as Scott and Blake stand there, a young

girl comes down the hall and stops, opposite her room.

She smiles brightly and goes into her room. Scott looks at

Blake.

EXT. HARVARD YARD. NIGHT.

Blake and Scott sitting on a bench in the deserted yard.

Scott holds the envelope and the letter, on which we see

this symbol %-) and begin to read: "This is a sham. Your

view of the world is not cockeyed, but corrupt. You cunt.

And you deserve everything that is going to happen to you..."

ANGLE, on Scott, as he looks at the letter.

The boy bangs his head. Scott, as he rises, brings Blake to

his feet.

As they walk by a parked van, we cut inside the van. Where

we see a Secret Service type. Through the windshield we see

Scott gesture "Do Not Intervene."

ANGLE, on Scott and Blake, as they walk down the near-

deserted Mass Ave.

ANGLE, INT. THE VAN. We hear the conversation, and see the

tape machine moving.

ANGLE EXT. THE VAN. Blake and Scott.

ANGLE. From inside the windshield of the van we see, through

their body language, that Scott is "giving the boy a break",

the boy is very thankful. Scott is admonishing him and the

boy is contrite. Now Scott begins to walk away, and we see

him minutely, signal to the van, we see the driver of the

van pick up a phone and speak softly into it.

ANGLE, Scott, walking down a sidestreet. The boy in the BG,

we see the young Asian girl, take up a tailing position some

half-block back of the boy, as a car glides to the curb. And

Scott gets in.

ANGLE, tight on Scott in the car, as he rubs his eyes,

beyond exhaustion. The car pulls away.

He gives several instructions to the young man driving, and

then leans back, eyes closed. He opens his eyes again, and

we see him mouth, insistently, "The Regency". The driver nods.

INT. BOATHOUSE. NIGHT.

As Scott enters. The activity is more widespread than

previously. An agent walks him into the fray.

Agent, nods, shrugs.

We see Miller, in the BG, in a hurried conference, nod at Scott.

They walk off, an Aide talking to him.

Scott and the Agent stop in front of the interrogation room,

where we see the agent, Gaines, a guard over him. Gaines is

sitting, looking as if he had been weeping. The guard

addresses Scott and the other agent.

Scott shakes his head as if to say "How about that..." The

agent holds a photo of a very lovely Eurasian woman in a

business suit, and shows it to Scott.

Scott stands wearily, watching several large men berating

the seated Secret Service Agent. An agent appears with a

tearsheet showing the ad for "The Regency Club". We see the

ad for exotic young companions, and the address is Boston.

Scott gives instructions to the Aide.

ANGLE INT. WASHROOM. Scott, having stripped off his shirt,

is washing himself at the sink. The "Regency" ad, and a

description of the club is pasted with water to the mirror

before him. We read, in the mirror: "REGENCY. 243 Charles

Street, Boston, Mass. Owners of Record..." Et Cetera. In the

mirror we see the Aide bring a fresh shirt and a tie to

Scott. Scott turns, as the door swings, and he sees, in the

BG, ANTON, just entering the establishment.

ANGLE INT. THE BOATHOUSE. A Swat team is laying out its

weapons and assault gear, on a long table.

HOLD on Anton, who is standing, unassigned, and looking it.

We see, on an improvised bulletin board, photos of the Boy,

Blake, the Professor, and the Girl, blown up from a

newspaper shot, and in various photos. As we watch an Agent

walks up with a box full of photos, and tacks one up on the

board. It is an altered shot showing the young girl with

short, spikey platinum hair.

ANGLE on Scott, dressed in a clean shirt, a tie, as he takes

a photo from the box. We see him put it next to the original,

blonde photo, and look at both.

The Agent takes off his suitcoat, and gives it to Scott, who

puts it on.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he holds the photos, and the Regency

description. He walks toward the door, through the mass of

agents. He stops by Miller, who is on the phone, looking at

a photograph of the Professor, as a tech hooks up a video

feed of a house on the water, the Professor's house. A photo

of a sailboat is tacked up. We read 'The Colophon' on its stern.

Miller gestures "Just a Moment", and then waves to an Aide,

meaning "Do It".

Miller shakes his head, he holds up the "Regency" note...

Miller, gesturing around the room, meaning "what you see is

what you get". All the occupants of the room are engaged on

some task, save Anton, who sits alone on a bench. Scott

looks at Anton, who glances at Scott, trying to keep the

appeal out of his glance, "Please take me".

Scott looks at Anton and shakes his head. He is summoned to

the front of the room by a young woman, who is putting cash

into an envelope. Scott comes over to her, and we see her

filling out a slip of paper. She hands him the cash in the

envelope, and the slip of paper.

Scott turns to Anton.

There is the sound of a gunshot. Scott and Anton

instinctively take cover against the side of the building,

drawing their sidearms.

HOLD TIGHT on Scott. As he looks through the half-open door.

We see several of the Swat men, taking up positions, one of

them kicks open a door, and his partner enters. Pause. We

hear the partner call "clear".

ANGLE, on Scott, as he re-enters the building, and proceeds,

pistol out, toward the room.

ANGLE HIS POV. On the floor, we see the dead Secret Service

Agent, a pistol in his hand.

We see Miller turn to his team. An Agent kneels to the

fallen Secret Service Agent, and prods a small hideout

pistol from his hand. Scott turns to leave, and sees Anton

standing next to him.

ANGLE on Anton and Scott as they leave. In the BG we see

Miller et al. Miller giving directions.

TIGHT on Anton and Scott as they exit the building.

EXT. REGENCY CLUB. NIGHT.

A garish neon sign, beneath which we see a couple exiting,

getting into their limo. Scott, in his sportcoat, walks up

to the large and threatening bouncer at the velvet rope to

the club. We see the bouncer bar his way, and gesture to his

watch, meaning "closing up".

ANGLE INS. Two one-hundred dollar bills are passed to the

bouncer.

ANGLE, Anton, in a cab across the street, looking on.

ANGLE INT. THE REGENCY CLUB. Several well-dressed couples

are leaving. A group of raucous, drunk businessmen types

push past them. Scott walks up to the bar. The Bartender is

beginning to ring out the cash register. In the BG we see a

manager eye Scott, and continue to direct the closing

operations.

He gestures to the bills on the bar. The Bartender swoops

them up, and gestures to the back bar, meaning "What'll you

have?" Scott points to a bottle of Bourbon, the Bartender

pours for him.

He brings out his case, with the photo of the platinum-

haired girl. The Bartender comes over and glances at it.

ANGLE XCU on Scott as he looks incisively at the Bartender,

who displays no flicker of recognition.

ANGLE on Scott, who looks around the club. We see him eyeing

the lovely young scantily clad waitresses, who return his

looks with disdain. The Bartender, observing him, comes back

to him.

The Bartender smiles.

The Bartender leans close and hesitates. Scott takes out

several more bills and passes them to the Bartender.

He hesitates a second, as if to say   "You wouldn't fuck me,

would you...?" The Bartender signs,   "I am your man", the

Bartender takes the bills and leans   close and whispers to

Scott, indicating someone over in a   dark corner.

In this corner, as the lights are flicked up, we see a

youngish man in very expensive casual clothes, an American,

dressed like Eurotrash, sitting talking with the man we saw

earlier was the Manager. As Scott approaches, we see the

Manager, knowingly, drift off. Beat. The young man (ZIMMER)

rises from the booth, and tugs himself into neatness, and

stops, as if bemused by Scott.

Zimmer starts for the front door, and Scott falls into step

with him.

Camera takes the two out of the front of   the club, where

Zimmer tips the bouncer, who his putting   on his coat,

preparatory to going away for the night.   Zimmer begins

walking into a parking lot, where we see   several run-down

employee's cars, and his, Zimmer's prime   Mercedes. Scott

tags along.

He takes out money from his pocket. Zimmer begins to speak

slightingly, dismissively to the 'hick'.

Zimmer starts to open his car door. He turns back to Scott,

and we see, Zimmer's POV, Anton, standing behind Scott, at

the doorway to an alleyway. Obviously backing Scott up.

ANGLE CU, Zimmer reacts infinitesimally, to the sight of Anton.

ANGLE XCU, Scott, sees him, and slams him against the side

of the car. Zimmer reaches through the half-open door, and

comes out with an automatic pistol in his hand. Scott kicks

him in the stomach, Zimmer tries to raise the hand with the

gun, and Scott throws him to the ground, the pistol falls on

the concrete.

ANGLE on Scott as Anton emerges from the alley. Scott

directs him to drag Zimmer into the alleyway, near a

dumpster. Anton thrusts his hand into the car and starts to

reach for the dropped pistol.

ANGLE INT. THE SMALL ALLEYWAY. As Anton now pulls off

Zimmer's sportcoat, and begins emptying the pockets. Scott

interrogates Zimmer.

Zimmer turns away from the photo.

Anton pulls Zimmer to his feet. Scott puts a lock on Zimmer

and breaks his arm. Zimmer screams.

Anton, tossing Zimmer's coat, comes up with a small medicine

vial. He holds it up to Scott. Who takes it, looks at it,

sniffs it. Pause.

Anton tossing Zimmer's clothes comes up with an envelope.

Scott takes it, and leafs through many bills.

ANGLE CU, Scott.

Scott gestures to Anton to let Zimmer go. Zimmer hesitates,

knowing he must not move. Scott holds the photo to Zimmer's

face.

ANGLE XCU, Anton looking at Scott, to say "Really"?

ANGLE XCU Scott, nodding back, "Really".

Scott starts to walk away. Zimmer begins screaming.

EXT. NORTH END, BOSTON QUIET STREET. NIGHT.

A large Mercedes is parked outside on the quiet street. A

chauffeur reads the paper, he half turns, sleepily, at the

sight of a man walking across the street.

ANGLE Scott and Anton pulling up in a Camaro.

ANGLE INT. THE CAMARO. Scott and Anton, as he turns off the

motor. He looks over at Anton, who holds a piece of paper.

ANGLE THEIR POV. A townhouse across the street. A large

Mercedes in the courtyard driveway. Beat. Scott and Anton

watch, as a door starts to open.

Anton begins to respond, when Scott gets out of the car,

motioning Anton toward the Mercedes.

ANGLE EXT. THE TOWNHOUSE. We see a middle-aged Businessman

coming out of a side entrance, adjusting his clothes as he

walks. As Scott walks nearby - we take him to a garbage pail,

where he retrieves a small black bag - that is, as used to

transport dog shit. He walks up.

ANGLE, on Anton, getting out of the Camaro. Behind him,

around the corner, we see a dark van pull up. Anton motions

the van to hold.

ANGLE, on Scott. As he walks up toward the Businessman,

holding the black bag. He whistles once or twice for his dog,

and then turns to see the Businessman.

Scott walks up to him, and pushes him back into the vestibule.

ANGLE TIGHT on Scott as he flicks open his switchblade, and

holds his knife up to the Businessman's throat and whispers.

Beat. The Businessman looks frantically around, beyond him

we see Anton taking his Chauffeur out of the car. The

Businessman turns to the intercom and pushes a button. We

hear a female voice answer, after a beat, "...yes...?"

ANGLE on Anton, holding a machine pistol, behind a corner of

the wall.

There is a beat. And the far door in the vestibule is buzzed

open. As it opens several men in Swat gear stream through

the vestibule and up the stairs. Scott hands the Businessman

over to an Agent, who takes charge of him, and camera holds

on Scott, standing, wearily, at the bottom of the stairs.

He motions for Anton near him to hand him a cigarette. Anton

does so. Scott lights up. From the top of the stairs we hear

screams, sounds of breaking, yells, commands being shouted.

Beat. An Agent comes to the top of the stairs, looks down,

and shakes his head. Beat. Scott turns and finds the

handcuffed Businessman in his field of vision.

Beat. The Businessman, terrified, is silent. Scott holds out

the photo of the girl in the black hair.

The Businessman looks at the photo. Scott gestures at Anton,

and passes the photo of Laura Newton to Anton. And then

looks as if to say "In or Out?" Anton hesitates a moment,

and then strikes the Businessman.

ANGLE on the Businessman, on the ground. Terrified. He looks

back at Scott, as if unable to focus. Scott gives him a beat,

nods, as if to say, "What would you expect", and starts up

the stairs.

INT. WHOREHOUSE. NIGHT.

Scott enters the vaguely Japanese modern establishment.

Several Swat figures are being stood down. They sit, sharing

a thermos of coffee. One of the Swat team nods to Scott, and

motions him to the direction he knows Scott wants to go.

Camera takes Scott past a room where two female Agents are

holding five young women, who are supervised, changing out

of "escort" wear, and into jeans and sweatshirts,

"streetclothes".

ANGLE on Scott, as he enters what is obviously the "office"

of the Bordello. One of the techs is sitting at a bashed-in

computer, he is hooking it up to another laptop. He turns to

Scott.

Beyond them we see Miller. And a very attractive European-

looking woman in her forties. In a room beyond two bodyguard

types are handcuffed, watched over by a Swat officer.

Scott moves back to watch Miller interrogating the woman,

the Madam, who speaks with a middle-European accent.

Miller waves the rest of the information away. Miller shows

her the photo.

ANGLE on Scott, who stands by the Tech, who is trying to

reconstruct the broken computer. It prints out a file, on

which we see photos of various faces. Each girl holds a

placard with a number on it.

ANGLE on Anton, who looks down.

ANGLE HIS POV. The wastebasket. In the BG we hear Nadya

going on about the benefits of working as a Hostess. He

motions to Scott.

Scott squats to the ground, and pours out what are revealed

to be several polaroids of beautiful young women. He uses

his knife to rearrange them without touching them. They are

now alighted and we see the numerals twelve, thirteen,

fifteen, on placards which they hold up.

ANGLE on Scott, as he walks back into the interrogation room,

holding the sheet printed out by the computer.

Miller takes the photos of Laura and shows the platinum-

haired one to Nadya.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he steps away. He takes us through the

Whorehouse. In the adjacent room we see a bank of video

monitors, showing people in various sexual activities. On

the screen for a moment comes the face of what looks like a

very young girl indeed, camera swerves onto the face of the

Businessman we saw outside the Whorehouse, he is disrobing,...

ANGLE on Scott. As he looks to the Businessman, himself, who

is seated in a chair, presided over by several agents,

forced to watch the video. He turns his head away.

One of the agents turns the Businessman's head brusquely back.

Scott holds the card. He shakes his head sadly. Scott nods

to the Interrogator and Scott throws the card into the

Businessman's lap.

ANGLE CU, on Scott, as he looks disgusted. Anton stands on

one side, looking to Scott for a cue as to how to react.

He holds the photo of the platinum-haired Laura Newton.

Anton succeeds in pulling Scott off the Businessman. He

drags him around a corner. We see the terrified Businessman

in the background, as Anton tries to reason with Scott.

ANGLE, on Scott, now appearing transformed, and easy. He

gestures "shusshh" to Anton, meaning "It is all an act". In

the BG we see the Interrogator browbeating the Businessman.

The Businessman is terrified. He looks around the room in panic.

ANGLE on Scott, as camera takes him to where the Female

Agent is interrogating the Young Whore. Anton follows.

ANGLE on Scott, as he turns back to Nadya.

ANGLE on Miller, as he beckons Scott. Anton starts to come

and Miller signals him to stay behind.

Miller nods and the three walk out of the room.

ANGLE on Scott, as he and Miller retreat behind a door. Beat.

Scott moves back to Nadya.

Miller pushes a pad of paper and a pencil across to her.

ANGLE TIGHT on Scott. As he looks on. Beat. He nods, as if

to say "We're getting there". There is the sound of a phone

ringing, and an Agent comes in, and beckons Miller, who

waves him away. The Agent indicates, "No, you have to take

this call." Miller steps back from Nadya, not wanting to

break the mood, and moves toward the phone. Scott moves to

stand by the girl.

ANGLE on Scott as he pushes the paper toward her, again,

forcing and willing her to put down the number.

INT. FOOTBALL STADIUM. NIGHT.

A helicopter is settling onto the playing field.

ANGLE. Two men getting out of a Suburban, across the field,

run toward the helicopter.

ANGLE, a powerful-looking older man in a suit, BURCH, steps

down from the helicopter, and an Aide greets him and leads

him away from the helicopter. We see the Aide indicate the

two men running toward them. Burch turns.

ANGLE HIS POV. Miller and Scott, who join with Burch, as

they all move toward the stadium building.

INT. STADIUM BUILDING, LUNCHROOM. NIGHT.

ANGLE, on an assembly of the information of the chase. On a

table, the photos of the Eurasian businesswoman, of Laura

Newton, of the Regency Club. A disassembled machine pistol,

and a cup of steaming coffee.

HOLD on Scott, looking at something, off. As he picks up the

cup of coffee. Beyond him we see Anton, asleep in his chair.

ANGLE INT. LUNCHROOM. Burch, Scott, and Miller are found in

the empty, stainless steel lunchroom, with them a clean-cut

young man, STODDARD, obviously Burch's assistant.

ANGLE. HOLD on Scott. Sitting quietly, as he watches the two

other men.

Stoddard takes out a cigar case. Looks to Burch, who nods

his consent, and Stoddard takes out a black cigar, and

lights it.

ANGLE on Scott and Anton. As Anton comes awake to the sound

of the shouting. Scott gestures him to keep quiet.

ANGLE on the two. As Anton wakes up. He picks up a sheet

bearing the Picasso symbol, and starts to speak. Scott

shakes his head, meaning "be quiet".

He motions to be quiet - and to pay attention to the drama

in the next room.

ANGLE INT. THE STEEL LUNCHROOM. As Burch and Stoddard

interrogate Miller.

The Detail Agent. Was he fucking

her?

The girl?

The Secret Service Agent, was he

fucking Laura Newton...?

He was off-post, with his

girlfriend.

The Professor, the Boyfriend,

"...you behave like a slut...",

this is who you like...?

Aah...fuck

She dyed her hair. What do they

do, her hair grows out, what do

they do when they realize who

she is...?

They kill her.

You're fucken A Right they kill

her. Okay. Good.

Scott, and then Miller, looks at Burch's clean-cut and very

fit assistant, Stoddard. There is a pause, and then Burch

motions Stoddard to leave the room, which he does. Pause.

Miller nods to an Aide, who comes forward, with a white

scrap of paper. He hands it to Burch.

ANGLE, on an Aide who comes in and passes a piece of paper

to Miller, who reads it and looks up.

Scott and Anton start to get to their feet.

EXT. COPLEY SQUARE, DOWNTOWN. NIGHT.

In the foreground we see a lonely payphone in the deserted

square. It is festooned with ads for escort services. In the

deep background we see the lights on in a corner bank

building, and the cleaners at work.

ANGLE INT. THE BANK. One of the cleaners polishes the

counter in the bank. He wipes his brow and looks outside.

ANGLE HIS POV. A sedan at the curb. Beyond it, a man,

smoking a cigarette, stands near the payphone.

The man looks at his watch, looks around, throws away the

cigarette, and continues to pace.

ANGLE, in the bank the "Cleaner" whispers into a lapel mike.

EXT. BOSTON STREET. DAY.

Scott, in the backseat of a car, apparently asleep. Anton,

sitting in the front. Listening to the faint sounds from an

earwig.

ANGLE, XCU. Scott, his head tilted back, looking through

almost fully closed eyelids.

ANGLE, Anton, as he looks around, down at Scott, and then up,

at a man in a suit, some thirty yards away, walking towards

the car.

Anton, as the man draws closer, looks down at Scott, as if

to say "How did you know"?

We see Scott, relax for a moment. And then, putting Anton

out of his misery.

HOLD. On Anton, as he digests this. BEAT.

ANGLE, EXT. The Phonebooth in Copley Square. We hear the

phone begin to ring.

EXT. BOSTON STREET. DAY.

Scott and Anton, in the sedan. Anton listening on the

earpiece. Anton brightens.

Anton starts to put the car in gear, an Agent comes jogging

down the street, out of an alley, and motions Anton aside,

and gets into the car.

EXT. BOSTON HIGHWAY. NIGHT.

A shot of the helicopter, flying over the highway.

ANGLE, the sedan speeding down the deserted highway, the

city in the background. The helicopter, flying away overhead.

INT. SCOTT'S CAR.

A Driver, Scott, and Anton. Listening to transmissions on

the radio. As they drive Anton leans forward, his hands on

the seatback of the front seat. Scott picks up one of

Anton's hands, and turns it over.

Anton nods, and begins to work the ring off his finger.

ANGLE THEIR POV. Far ahead, the speeding sedan turns off the

highway, onto a "feeder" road.

Anton and Scott in the backseat. As we see Anton take out a

machine pistol from his "Go" bag, and check it. Scott looks

at him. A chatter comes over the radio, and Scott addresses

the two men in the front seat.

The Driver hands a printout to the shotgun man, who reads.

The Agent shakes his head, looks down at the paper.

The Agent looks at the piece of paper.

Anton looks at Scott inquisitively, not sure he has heard right.

ANGLE the Sedan, on the deserted highway. HOLD. We see

another car come screaming up behind it, doing one-ten, a

red light on the roof, flashing.

ANGLE INT. THE SEDAN. A middle-aged man watches the other

car come up, and disappear around a bend, going furiously fast.

EXT. ESSEX BEACH. NIGHT.

The margin of the scrubwoods, in the dunes. Scott and Anton,

moving quietly through the woods. Scott points to Anton,

indicating where he should stop.

ANGLE, Scott's POV. A run-down beach house on a deserted

cove. The blue light of a television flickering through the

window.

ANGLE, Scott peering through some scrubgrass. We see he

holds a small handful of torn-off grass before and over his

face, to break up his outline. He turns. To Anton, who

stands next to him, holding a sniper rifle. He points out a

position to Anton.

He takes the small handful of grass and throws it into the

air, watching the way the wind takes it. Scott gestures to

Anton to take up a position beside a small run-down boat shed.

We see Anton do so, then Scott moves across the dunes, to a

small skiff. Which lies just across a little cove from the

beach house.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he moves down the dune, to the skiff. He

opens his switchblade quietly, and severs the line holding

the skiff to the dock. He gets into the skiff, and pushes it

off, and we see it begin to drift across the little cove

toward the beach house.

ANGLE, on Anton, kneeling, beside the old boat shed, as he

assumes a prone position, and sights his rifle in on the

beach house.

ANGLE, HIS POV. Through the sniperscope, the house, the

television, flickering in an empty living room.

INT. THE WOODS.

Anton, acknowledging the command. He finds a vantage point,

and assumes the prone position, covering the house with his

rifle.

ANGLE on Scott, surveying the beach house.

ANGLE HIS POV. The dark beach house.

ANGLE on Scott, as he moves across the lawn, and to a back

door. He removes his switchblade, opens it, and uses it to

jimmy the screen latch. He replaces it, and takes out a set

of lock picks, and begins to work on the door. We faintly

hear the sound of a television.

ANGLE INT. THE BEACH HOUSE. We hear the sound of the TV and

faintly, see a blue glow from a room or two down the hall.

ANGLE on Scott, entering the kitchen, where he looks down at

the various dirty plates and cups on the table.

ANGLE on Scott, coming through the door. As he moves, flat

to the wall. Camera follows him past the doorway, beyond

which we see the TV on low. Scott looks in, and finds it empty.

ANGLE on Scott, as we follow him into the bedroom. It is empty.

HOLD on Scott, looking around.

ANGLE, as he comes back into the living room. He stops. We

see something beyond him.

ANGLE HIS POV. A small boat some twenty yards from the house.

Out near the water.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he starts to open the rear, sliding

glass door which will lead him out to the boat.

Behind him, we see the MAN FROM THE SEDAN open the front

door of the house, and begin to enter. Scott hears him, and

turns.

The Sedan Man is put a bit off, as the comment makes no

sense. Scott uses the moment to advance toward the man.

ANGLE EXT. THE BUILDING. Where we see the man, and Scott. We

see the scene in green, through a sniperscope.

ANGLE, on Anton, looking through the scope.

ANGLE CU Anton, as he sees something in the scope.

ANGLE, in the house. Scott advancing toward the man.

The man backs up, past a half-open glass French door.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he advances toward the man.

ANGLE, ANTON'S POV. Through the sniperscope. The faint

traces of what might be the Picasso symbol.

ANGLE, on Anton, as we see him move the sniperscope and

adjust its magnification toward the symbol. In a corner of

the scope, we see another man, in a dirty white shirt,

emerge, coming up the stairs from what might be the basement

of the beach house. We see this man take in the scene in the

next room, and secrete himself behind a wall.

ANGLE, on Anton, whose vision is blocked - Camera takes him

to a position next to the white tool shed.

Scott, moving toward the Sedan Man, unaware of the man

around the corner.

ANGLE through the sniperscope. We see the man in the white

shirt ready himself behind the opening through which Scott

will come. We see him raise a pistol.

ANGLE Anton, as he realizes he is behind the curve. As the

man in the white shirt steps into the doorway Anton fires at

him through the sniperscope. We see this man fall.

ANGLE, INT. THE HOUSE. The man in the Sedan, his hands

raised, fetches down a small shotgun from the lintel over

the door, and levels it toward Scott. Who draws and fires

several rounds at him.

ANGLE INT. THE HOUSE. As the man goes down heavily. Scott

comes forward to the dying man, and kicks the shotgun away.

Camera takes Scott warily into the next room, where he sees

the man in the white shirt sprawled on the floor. Scott

moves past him, and down to a door leading to the basement.

Scott takes a long look down the basement stairs. We see a

faint light, and a shadow moving across the light.

ANGLE on Scott, as he takes a deep breath, and bursts down

the stairs, screaming.

ANGLE INT. The Basement. A rough, dirt-floored room. Scott

standing alone. We see a bare bulb hanging from the ceiling,

swinging slightly in the breeze from an open window.

ANGLE, Anton, inside the house, in a covering position,

watching out. Scott comes up the stairs.

We see Anton take out a walkie and talk into it, Scott

proceeds to the Sedan Man. He kneels by him.

Scott pulls the dying, bloody man to him, and starts to

shake him.

Beat. The man begins to shudder, violently, and then stops,

obviously dead. Beat. Scott throws the dead man down onto

the floor. Beat.

ANGLE, on Anton, who turns to look back. He stares at the

dead man.

Anton looks at Scott. Beat.

Scott sits on a chair, by an old rolltop desk. On the desk

we see a bunch of junk, old cigarette packets, empty. A box

half-full of yellowing stationary. Scott prods the stationary

with his knife. We read, in an insert: "Hanson Marine.

Everything for the boat. Box 38 Essex, Mass." (and see, on

the envelope, an old fashioned, stylized drawing of an old

chriscraft-like power boat).

We hear the sound of a helicopter. And Scott turns, looking

out of the window. He then turns back, to see Anton, who is

standing, looking down at the man he shot. Anton, feeling

Scott's gaze, turns to look at him.

Scott gets up wearily, and walks toward the door out onto

the beach. We see a helicopter landing, and several men in

BDU's, jumping out, and proceeding toward the house.

INT. STADIUM DRESSING ROOM. DAY.

Burch and his Aide. As Scott and Anton enter. Followed by

Miller.

Burch motions Miller over, and they confer, looking at Scott

and Anton.

ANGLE, on Scott and Anton, as they stand by a television, an

Agent is watching, shaking his head.

ANGLE. He is summoned, into the next room. By Burch et al.

Burch and his Aide. As Scott comes in with Anton, followed

by Miller. Burch takes Scott aside.

Burch walks a few steps away. Thinking. Scott looks at Anton,

questioning.

Burch thinks for a moment. And then draws Scott aside. Burch

glances over at the television, spewing information about

Laura Newton, and shakes his head with disgust.

He turns back to Scott. And gestures him into a small room,

and closes the door.

Burch thinks a moment, he rubs his face, and shakes his head,

and looks up as if to say "This is all we have, this is the

best we have". Pause. He nods, as they do not move.

Burch takes out a photo of a bearded middle-eastern looking

man in a business suit, and another, in a mugshot marked

"Lewisberg Federal Penitentiary".

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD. DAY.

A Police Cruiser coming quickly down a two-lane, deserted road.

ANGLE INT. THE CRUISER. A road sign reads "Just Two Miles To

'The Owl', Rest Stop, Restaurant, Gas-Diesel".

ANGLE EXT. THE OWL. Rest Stop. A run-down rural gas station,

restaurant. Off to the side we see the cruiser coming down

the road. As a roughly-dressed man runs out of the restaurant,

carrying a full paper bag in his hand. The Cruiser, unseen

by the man, pulls up to the gas pump, and the Trooper starts

to get out of the driver's seat. When gunfire erupts from

the restaurant. People are shooting at the fleeing man. A

man opens the door of the restaurant and fires at the

roughly-dressed man in a very urban leather jacket, who

returns fire. Glass breaks in the windows of the restaurant.

The roughly-dressed man runs to his car, an 80's Pontiac,

parked near the pumps. The man in the doorway fires again,

and the windshield of the Pontiac blows out and a tire

bursts. The roughly-dressed man returns fire, and the man in

the doorway falls. The roughly-dressed man turns to see that

the Trooper is out of his Cruiser, and is about to fire at

him. The roughly-dressed man drops his satchel, and fires at

the Trooper, who falls.

The paper bag has fallen to the ground and burst, and

currency is spilling out of it, and being taken on the wind.

The roughly-dressed man frantically begins to try to scoop

it up and into his jacket.

ANGLE CU on this man, who we now see is SCOTT. He stands

around, and moves to the fallen Trooper. He strips the keys

from the Trooper's keyring, and looks up. Feeling someone

gazing at him.

ANGLE HIS POV. In the car, two convicts, a Heavyset Man and

ELI ASSANI, the middle-eastern man we saw in the mugshot. He

is holding his neck, which is bleeding copiously.

We see the back window behind him, shattered by gunfire.

ANGLE on Scott, who gets into the car, takes the keys he

took from the Trooper, and begins screaming off down the

highway.

LOW ANGLE, showing the car taking a turn vastly too fast,

the car careens up on two wheels, rights itself, fishtails,

corrects, and disappears in the distance.

ANGLE INT. THE CAR. Scott driving steals a look back at

Assani, in the back seat, whimpering.

The Police Radio chatters: "Two Twelve Sierra, come

back...Two Twelve Sierra, come back, we have your request

for Code Seven...please come back with your Twenty."

ANGLE on Scott driving. He looks behind him.

ANGLE, POV. In the rearview mirror. A dust cloud settling

over the deserted highway.

ANGLE INT. THE OWL. Various techies, in the kitchen,

monitoring the broadcast of the microphone in the Police Car,

Anton among them. The Trooper comes in, taking off his

bullet-proof vest, and sits to listen, where we find Miller

and his Agents. The 'Restaurant Owner', who we now see is

Anton, takes off his jacket and his bullet-proof vest and

picks a slug, fired by Scott, out of the center of the vest.

ANGLE INT. THE POLICE CAR.

ANGLE, EXT. COUNTRY ROAD. The car comes to a panic stop,

fifty yards beyond a turnoff onto a dirt road. The car is

put in gear, backs up, and takes the road.

EXT. FARM ROAD. DAY.

The car comes quickly up a small farm road, we see a run-

down barn, and a farmhouse, washing on the line. Scott pulls

the car into the barn, next to an old pick-up truck. He gets

out of the car, we hear Assani in the backseat calling to him.

ANGLE, Scott, as he turns to Assani, who is pressing a

blood-soaked shirt to his neck. Calling "Help me".

Scott opens the back door of the Cruiser, and the Heavyset

Man gets out, and offers his manacled hands for release.

Scott motions to Assani.

He takes his pistol and walks toward the farmhouse.

HOLD on Assani, and the other Convict, Assani is holding a

rag to his bleeding neck.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he walks past a clothesline heavy with

drying clothes, he is seen to go into the house. We hear a

woman's scream, and then two shots are fired.

ANGLE INT. THE HOUSE. As Scott is found at a table in the

kitchen next to which are various foodstuffs laid out.

Inside the house we see a female techie, at a table by the

wall, various communications gear in front of her. Scott

begins loading up his pockets with food. The techie hands

Scott a slate on which is written, in large block letters,

"The helo is standing by, will assault in support when you

have found the girl. On your command." Scott gestures for

the slate, and writes on it, and hands it back. Scott nods,

and walks out of the house.

ANGLE INSERT. The slate, on which we see Scott has written

"Keep Your Distance!"

ANGLE, on Scott, as he walks back through the yard, pulling

clothes off the line.

ANGLE INT. THE BARN. The two convicts, as Scott enters, and

begins changing out of his clothes, and into the clothes he

found on the line.

He turns to the Heavyset Man, and fires his revolver at him

twice. The man falls, dead. Scott turns his revolver at

Assani, who begins to scream.

Scott advances on him.

Scott pulls the trigger, which falls on an empty chamber.

Assani whimpers, as Scott goes into the Cruiser, comes out

with a box of shells, clears the empties from the cop's gun,

and begins loading it.

INT. PICK-UP TRUCK. DAY.

Scott is driving. The dash is littered with empty coffeecups,

cigarette packs. He turns.

ANGLE HIS POV. Assani, sitting in the shotgun seat, a map in

his lap, looking at him.

Assani grins, as if to say, "Just Wait".

Scott grins, and Assani shares the moment with him.

Assani joins with him in the joke, nodding his assent.

Assani begins to swoon. He puts his hand to his neck, and it

comes away covered in blood, where it was cut by the glass

fragment.

ANGLE, Sedan. Holding Anton and several agents, listening to

the broadcast from Scott's car.

ANGLE EXT. ANTON'S CAR. As it increases speed.

ANGLE INT. SCOTT'S CAR. As he tries to staunch the fellow.

Scott steers with one hand. And turns off the highway at an

exit, showing two miles to a town.

INT. SMALL TOWN PHARMACY. DAY.

Scott, dressed in the farm clothes that he took off of the

line. Scott is buying supplies. On the counter we see

bandages, hydrogen peroxide, etc. Behind the counter we see

a newscast, showing a picture of Laura Newton, in long

blonde hair, and a woman is doing a talking-head about fashion.

Scott ignores the screen.

ANGLE EXT. THE STORE. In back, Assani is sitting in the

pickup, a woman driving another beat-up pickup pulls into

the lot, there is a shotgun in the rack by the rear window.

Assani crouches lower, to prevent being seen.

ANGLE INT. THE STORE. As Scott is checking out. A policeman

enters from the police car. We see it is Anton.

ANGLE. On Scott, as he moves to the back of the store, to

meet Anton. Scott looks inquisitively at him.

Anton takes out the magazines in the pouches on his belt.

And starts to strip off the rounds.

Anton takes the pistol from his belt. Scott checks it, and

puts it in the small of his back.

ANGLE EXT. THE STORE. Assani, in the pickup, sees through a

small window in the store.

ANGLE on Anton and Scott. Scott is walking away from him,

and Anton puts a hand on him, and turns him back.

ANGLE INT. THE STORE. Anton gestures Scott to wait a moment.

Scott waves, it is not necessary. He goes to the counter,

and picks up the medical supplies. He starts toward the back

door. He calls back, over his shoulder

ANGLE on Anton, as we see something occur to him. He turns

to the other officer with him, and asks a question, and we

see the other officer hand Anton several magazines of

ammunition.

ANGLE on Scott, as he is coming out of the back door.

ANGLE on Anton, as he follows him.

ANGLE on Scott, as he turns back. We see Anton bringing the

ammunition.

ANGLE on Assani, weak, holding the shotgun, as he supports

himself along the wall, he peers around the corner, at Anton

and Scott.

ANGLE, on Assani, who comes around the corner, and fires the

shotgun at Anton, who falls. Scott screams "No".

ANGLE, on Scott, who drops the packages, and turns to Assani,

who is jacking another round into the chamber of the shotgun.

Scott draws and fires at him several times.

ANGLE on Scott, who kicks away the shotgun, and turns back

to Anton, who is crawling on his back, out of the line of

fire...

ANGLE, on Scott, turning to look at Anton. And, then, back

at the obviously dead Assani.

INT. SMALL TOWN HOSPITAL. DAY.

In a waiting room. Scott, who looks up, as Miller enters.

Miller nods, and starts to walk away.

Miller turns back, understanding Scott's request.

Out of the window we see a   medical helicopter. Its rotors

just starting to turn. We   see two white-coated medical types,

carrying bags, run toward   the medical copter. An Aide comes

in, and gestures to Miller   that the copter is ready to go.

Miller turns to leave. Scott stands wearily.

Miller shakes his head - at the door, turns back for one

last word to Scott. And then he stops.

ANGLE. HIS POV. The television, in the next room, playing a

news program. Scott looks inquiringly at Miller, who is

transfixed by the television.

ANGLE the television. A "Breaking News" story. We see an

overturned sailboat, and the talking head narrating: "...the

tragic, the stunning...the...Jim, I don't know what to

say..." The woman's co-anchor, obviously very shaken, takes

up the story, and we see live footage of an overturned

sailboat being towed into a harbor, then inserts of "Our

Redhead" Laura Newton, and, after a moment, the Professor.

ANGLE, on the TV. On two bodies being taken from the water

by medical technicians.

ANGLE, the woman, as a shot of the political man we saw

earlier in the newspaper, comes on the screen.

ANGLE, on Tracey, as she is overcome, and tries to steady

herself.

ANGLE, on Miller, and the Troopers in the room. Miller looks

away from the screen, to Scott.

An insert of Laura's father, his sportcoat slung over his

shoulder, comes onto the screen.

ANGLE. On Scott. As he is found, standing, near the

television. Off to the side, behind him, we see Miller,

intently, on the phone, listening.

ANGLE. On Scott. As he is looking at the television, he

shakes his head minutely, as if in a dialogue with himself.

He walks back to the interrogation room.

Scott sits heavily. Miller walks in and sits next to him.

Miller looks down at the artifacts.

We see Miller leave, as Scott turns away, and lights a

cigarette. Miller turns back.

Beat. Miller leaves the room. Scott hangs his head with

weariness.

INT. GOVERNMENT TRANSPORT PLANE. NIGHT.

Anton, in bandages, in a bunk in the transport plane. Scott,

asleep, in a chair near him.

ANGLE on Anton, as he comes awake.

Scott takes a pill vial from Anton's jacket. Takes out a

pill, and administers it to him.

Anton gestures Scott to draw close.

ANGLE XCU on Scott as he turns away.

Scott turns away.

INT. TRAINING FACILITY. DAY.

We see the Dojo, training room. Several exhausted young men

in sweat stained fatigues watch a lecturer, with a knife in

his hand, demonstrating a manoeuvre with a trainee.

Beyond, on the wall, we see the sign. "These are the

precincts of pain. A Godess lives here. Her name is Victory."

Beyond, through the open doors, we see Scott's Mustang

driven up to a nearby building. A young man gets out.

ANGLE, INT. THE BUILDING. Scott, rested, clean, shaved,

drinking a cup of coffee. Sitting across a desk from an

Interrogator, who has several notes in front of him.

He extends his hand to Scott. Scott looks inquisitively at

him, then pauses, then stands.

ANGLE EXT. THIS BUILDING. Scott exiting, as Blane comes out

of his office. They walk through the compound. And to the

camera, toward the Mustang.

ANGLE, on Blane, who looks at him to say "you know better

than to ask."

Scott puts down the small yellow duffle he carries, next to

his Mustang. The young man who drove it in stands by, as

Blane and Scott shake hands. Scott looks at the training

facility.

ANGLE HIS POV. The lecturer, executing unarmed combat moves

against a trainee, who holds a knife. The lecturer puts the

trainee on his back.

Scott starts to walk toward this facility. He stands outside,

by an open double-door, next to a water cooler, and draws

himself a cup of water, which he drinks. As he watches the

lesson.

He turns back, as he sees the young man who drove in the

Mustang pick up the yellow duffle, to put it into the car.

ANGLE, Scott's POV, as he turns. We see the young female

sergeant, Jackie Black, in the BG, walking across the area.

Scott nods at her. She nods back. Scott starts to get into

his car, and then turns back.

ANGLE. SCOTT'S POV as the trainee on the mat gets up, and

the lecturer gestures at the knife he has dropped on the mat.

The trainee picks up the knife. The lecturer shakes his head.

The lecturer pauses, looking down at the ground. Beat.

The Trainee goes into a knife fighting stance.

The Trainee lets his attention drift for a second, in the

direction the Lecturer has pointed. And the Lecturer screams,

steps in, disarms the Trainee, throwing him to the mat. As

the Trainee picks himself up the Lecturer turns to the class.

The Trainee puts his hand to his head, and discovers he is

bleeding. The Lecturer nods his permission, and the Trainee

walks to a water cooler, next to which Scott is standing.

Scott looks at the shamed Trainee.

ANGLE, on the Lecturer, who calls another Trainee up.

A Trainee stands.

The Lecturer glances at Scott, and makes a small "have a

drink" gesture. The Lecturer nods back "yes". Scott walks

toward his car.

EXT. "CONSTRUCTION GATE". DAY.

The man inside the "construction booth" raises the barrier,

and looks at Scott, who drives through.

INT. ROADSIDE TRUCKERS BAR. NIGHT.

The Lecturer (Grace) and Scott, in a booth drinking.

Pause.

Scott gestures for another round to the bartender. Who is

serving some rough trucker types, two of whom are at the bar

with a couple of very attractive young women. One is a

stunning redhead, who looks back at Scott.

Scott is distracted. He is watching the talking heads, on

the bar TV talking about Laura Newton. We see the photos of

her in high school, with her father in some African country,

et cetera.

ANGLE. On Grace, watching Scott. Who shakes his head very sadly.

ANGLE on Scott. Caught in the image of Laura Newton, on the

television.

ANGLE on the truckers, near the television, looking at Scott.

One comes over to him.

INT. SLEAZY MOTEL ROOM. DAWN.

A sound of a truck, coming down the highway.

ANGLE, on the doorknob of the hotel room. We see several

quarters stacked. As the truck sound comes closer, the

quarters start to rumble, and fall off the doorknob.

ANGLE, on the floor, a glass ashtray. The quarters fall into

the ashtray.

ANGLE, Scott, in bed, naked, comes awake, as the quarters

hit the ashtray. He has a pistol in hand, and awakes with a

start, screaming. He surveys the motel room, taking in his

new surroundings. Beat. Next to him, the redhead from the

bar, also naked, comes awake, frightened, looking at Scott.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he surveys the hotel room.

ANGLE HIS POV. On a dresser, a cheap imitation pewter bowl,

an orange and a banana in it, on the table next to it, his

switchblade, open, and the remains of a peeled apple. He

looks at the knife, and at the girl.

She nods, not sure how to take Scott.

EXT. SMALL TOWN RURAL MAIN STREET. DAY.

A three-store town, a couple of pick-up trucks parked in

front of the country store. A large double log truck goes

through the town. The girl looks for some topic of

conversation, to bridge the awkward moment.

EXT. SMALL RURAL VILLAGE. MAIN STREET. DAY.

A three store town. A couple of pickup trucks parked in

front of the country store. Scott's Mustang parked next to

them. A large, filled, double-length log truck speeds

through the village. Scott, in his lumber jacket, is

assembling various maintenance items on the checkout counter.

A large paintbrush, several boxes of nails, a gallon of

paint. The Proprietor, a good-natured fellow in his fifties,

comes up to the counter to check Scott out.

Proprietor pours Scott a cup of coffee from the pot on the

back counter. He mixes in sugar and cream. Billy nods in

response to Scott's question.

ANGLE, On Billy, as he moves to a new customer, a farmer,

who comes in, and nods at Scott.

ANGLE on Scott, who sees something out the window, and moves

toward the front of the store.

ANGLE Scott, who is looking, over his coffee, at something

on the street. And we see, his POV, a very city rent-a-car

which is now across the street. We see a man getting out of

the car.

EXT. GAS STATION. COUNTRY VILLAGE. DAY.

We see the back of a man, next to the rental car, which is

next to the Mustang. He turns, and we see that it is Anton,

his arm in a slig, his face creased by pellet scars.

ANGLE, his POV. Looking at Scott, who has just snuck up

behind him.

Anton holds up his right hand. Scott relaxes, and comes

forward. Anton gestures, meaning, "what was that about"?

Scott takes Anton's right hand, by the wrist, and turns it

over. He explains:

Anton gestures at the "Oilchange" sticker on the Mustang's

windshield.

ANGLE from INT. The Car. We see the sticker reading "Mike's

Service Station, Bradford, PA". And beyond it, the actual

old, tin sign of the garage, reading "Mike's Service Station".

ANGLE, on Scott and Anton.

A beat. Scott shakes his head, as if in a sad comment to

himself. He sighs.

EXT. RURAL STREET. DAY.

Anton and Scott walking down the street.

Two old ladies come down the small main street.

The old ladies walk on. Pause.

ANGLE, on Scott, obviously off-balanced by the question. Hold.

INT. GOVERNMENT OFFICE BUILDING. DAY.

Stoddard, smoking a black cigar, and several "Bureau" types

in the office. Scott is sitting at a conference table, as is

Miller. Beat.

Miller gestures to him to shut up.

Scott shrugs, as if to say, "Is that the way you want it?"

Stoddard gestures to an aide to call a number.

Stoddard shakes his head in exasperation.

The Aide hands Stoddard the phone. Stoddard answers. Listens

for a moment, and then points at Scott.

EXT. GRAVESIDE. DAY.

A small photograph on an easel - it is an image of Gaines,

the dead Secret Serviceman.

ANGLE, a small funeral. A Marine Honor Guard in attendance.

Small suburban cemetery.

ANGLE on the Pastor.

ANGLE, an unmarked sedan. Scott, and a Driver. Looking on.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he sees something. Scott takes a book of

matches and starts to light a cigarette.

Scott gets out of the car.

ANGLE, on Scott, who takes out the Anton "Rogers Rangers"

card. He motions the driver to pass him a phone and Scott

looks at the number on the card and dials.

Beyond him we see, just at the limits of the gravesite.

Holding himself apart. A young man in a raincoat. The young

man turns at the sound of a limo driving up.

ANGLE Scott, looking at the limo. Out of the limo, which

stops near the grave, we see Burch emerge. There is a

susurrus among the crowd, which, visibly, straightens a bit,

at the honor of Burch's presence. We see Burch walk to the

gravesite, and have a word with the widow. Burch puts his

hands on her shoulders and comforts her.

ANGLE, on Scott, looking at the man in the raincoat. We hear

rifle fire, and Scott flinches.

ANGLE his POV. The Marine Honor Guard, rendering a salute.

We see a Marine bear the flag to Burch, who presents it to

the widow. He shakes several hands, and then moves off, back

to the limousine. He beckons Scott over to him.

ANGLE, Scott and Burch, walking through the cemetery. Burch

shakes his head. He hands Scott the program from the funeral,

and reluctantly begins.

ANGLE, on the two.

ANGLE. Over the Honor Guard, packing up, we see Scott hand a

scrap of paper to Burch, who makes one or two more points,

to which Scott nods, submissively. Burch walks off. Camera

follows the Honor Guard, down the path, toward Scott, who,

passing, nods at them.

HOLD on Scott. As he watches the widow, at the gravesite,

being walked away to a limo by the pastor. He feels someone

behind him and turns.

ANGLE, SCOTT'S POV. A man in a raincoat, standing furtively,

half-hidden by a tree, some distance off from the funeral,

weeping. He holds a program for the funeral.

ANGLE on the man in the raincoat, the funeral beyond him. He

is obviously distraught, a rather slight young man in his

thirties. He looks at Scott for a moment, and then turns away.

ANGLE. On Scott. As he turns back to watching the end of the

funeral. As the gravediggers begin their work. He sighs. And

moves to a bench and sits. Looking at the gravediggers.

DISSOLVE.

EXT. DUSK. GRAVEYARD.

Scott, still sitting on the bench. The gravediggers,

finishing their work, begin to walk off, joking with one

another. Scott stands, and turns, about to start out of the

cemetery. He stops for a moment.

ANGLE, HIS POV. The man in the raincoat, who is standing

where last seen, looking at the burial. Walks toward the

mound of earth, pauses for a moment, and then walks off.

EXT. BUS STOP. DESERTED, SEMI-INDUSTRIAL AREA, ACROSS FROM

THE CEMETERY. DAY.

The raincoat man is standing waiting for a bus, at the bus

stop, outside a working man's tavern.

ANGLE, on Scott, looking at the man, still weeping. Scott

walks up to the man. Each holds a copy of the program from

the funeral. The man looks down at the program, and then up

to Scott.

The man nods. Beat. He turns back to Scott, looking for

sympathy. Anguished.

The man begins weeping heavily. Scott puts his arm around him.

The man takes out a small photo in a leather case - we see

it is a smiling photo of the Secret Service Agent, Gaines.

Scott nods his understanding.

The man begins shaking, and Scott embraces him to comfort him.

ANGLE, INT. THE WORKING MAN'S BAR. DAY.

Scott and the man, at the end of the bar. A few construction

types enter. As Scott bends his head next to the man,

speaking low.

ANGLE, on a Burly Man, in construction clothes, who is

standing next to them.

He turns Scott around, and pushes Scott deeper into the room,

away from the other man, who is now going out of the door.

Scott moves toward him and the Burly Man tries to stop him.

Scott strikes him several times, and starts toward the door,

where, as he exits the bar, he sees the effeminate man, on

the bus, and pulling away.

Scott starts to move toward the bus. There is a hand on his

shoulder, and a second man from the bar is whirling Scott to

face him. Scott shakes him off and starts after the bus. The

second man restrains him.

In the B.G. We see the first man rise from the sidewalk, and

move toward Scott. Scott struggles to follow the bus, when

the second man assaults him. Scott is now fighting the two

men, who manoeuvre him toward an alley.

As Scott's back is to the alley we see a Third Man emerge

from the shadows, and throw a garrotte around Scott's neck.

Scott headbutts this man, who hauls Scott off his feet.

Scott belts him again, and stomps on his instep. And turns

into him. He elbows this man as the other two men advance

toward him, in the alleyway. The garrotte man falls.

Scott kicks the garrotte man in the temple. And draws his

pistol. Beat.

The men in the mouth of the alleyway retreat.

ANGLE. On the street. We see them get into a van which has

just pulled up.

ANGLE on Scott. Standing. Shivering. As he looks around the

alleyway. He moves back to the fallen garrotte man.

ANGLE. Scott standing over the man. He sees something and

bends down.

ANGLE HIS POV. In the man's backpocket is a program from the

funeral.

ANGLE, Scott standing, looking at the program. We hear the

phone ringing. Scott puts the phone to his ear.

Scott stops speaking, and looks down at something.

ANGLE, his POV. Across the street. We see an unmarked sedan

pull up and two men get out of the car. And begin to look

around. One sees Scott, and motions to the other one, and

they both start in his direction. They stop, for a moment,

as if confused.

ANGLE, their POV. The street corner, empty of Scott.

EXT. BOSTON STREET. DAY.

Copley Square. Scott. Coming into the square.

ANGLE, the open-air phone stanchion we saw in the earlier

sequence. It is festooned, as before, with ads for escort

services and phone sex.

ANGLE, on Scott, getting, hurriedly, out of a taxi cab, on

the outskirts of the square.

ANGLE, his POV, scanning the square for Anton. Scott looks

at his watch, and he looks up.

ANGLE HIS POV. The figure of Anton, walking from the far

side of the square, toward the phone booth.

ANGLE, on Anton, as he looks around him, and then proceeds

toward the phone booth.

As Scott watches, a van pulls into the plaza, and heads

toward Anton. Anton sees the van, and retreats, toward the

streetside, where we see, the van has herded him toward

another car. Three men get out of the car, one slugs Anton,

and he is whisked into the car, and the car pulls away.

ANGLE, on Scott, on the far side of the square, looking on,

aghast.

ANGLE Anton, in the backseat of the car, pointing back, as

the car disappears.

ANGLE. CU. Scott, looking at Anton's gesture, and following,

looking in the direction in which he was pointing.

ANGLE Scott's POV. The telephone kiosk. Scott walks into his

POV, to the kiosk. He looks down at the pile of trash on the

shelf.

He looks up at the various pornographic ads pasted around

the interior. He sees that, stuck in one of them is the

"Rogers Rangers" card, which Anton showed him earlier. He

pulls it out of the ad to which it is stuck. He looks down

at it inquisitively. We read in an insert: "Rule #11: Don't

ever march home the same way.

Take a different route, so you won't be ambushed." He then

sees that there is something else behind the ad. He tears

the ad off the kiosk partition, and he is rewarded, as a

folded envelope falls out from behind the ad. He picks up

the envelope. We see that it is the old yellowed envelope

from the beach house. It is printed "Hanson Marine -

Everything For The Boat", and we see, on it, the drawing of

the old power boat. We see Scott feel the envelope, shake it,

tear off the end, and pour something out into his hand. We

see his face, and then pan down to see the object in the

envelope was the red crescent earring seen in all photographs

of Laura Newton.

EXT. BOATHOUSE, ESSEX. DUSK.

A wind is blowing from the sea. Scott turns up the collar of

his jacket. We see the house in the BG and Scott, walking

along the patio, the sea beyond him. We see him stop and

kneel, to the piling, from which he took the matchbook. He

sifts through the sand and gravel at the foot of the piling.

The wind blows up the dust, and Scott stands, it is evident

he has got a speck in his eye, and he tries to extract it,

blinking, and squinting. He turns his head.

ANGLE, HIS POV. Beyond the property line. Beyond the hedges

and on what is obviously the next lot, an old, ramshackle

dwelling, the small white toolshed.

ANGLE, Scott, looking at the toolshed, and gauging its

proximity to the Essex House. He begins to walk toward it.

ANGLE. Scott. At the small white toolshed. He stoops, and we

see he has picked up the shell, ejected by Anton's rifle. He

stands, he takes out a small spotter's scope.

ANGLE. HIS POV. His shoulder, rubbing against the pollen-

covered window in the small white shed, has uncovered a bit

of a sign.

ANGLE. Scott, looking at the sign in the window. He rubs the

pollen off, and we see emerge, on the inside of the window,

drawn in the dust, the Picasso sign %-).

ANGLE XCU Scott.

INT. SLEAZY HOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Scott, wearing just skivvies, is asleep on the bed, an empty

pint bottle of booze on the night stand. We hear the

television on low, showing talking heads narrating the

funeral of Laura Newton.

"Our Redhead, America's Sweetheart", et cetera. We see a

photo of her in her signature red crescent earrings. Next to

Scott, on the night table, the envelope, holding the same

red crescent earring.

ANGLE, the line of light under the door to the hallway is

occupied by a pair of feet.

ANGLE. A hand, dangling off the bed toward the floor. Below

it, on the floor, the creased 'Rogers Rangers' card, and

several days worth of newspapers.

ANGLE XCU Scott, on the bed. Unshaven. We see his eyes come

open.

ANGLE on Scott's hand, as it snakes quietly past the Rangers

card, on which we read: "Rule #15: Don't sleep past dawn -

Dawn's when the French and Indians attack", and comes up

with an automatic pistol.

ANGLE the door, as we see the door handle move slightly.

ANGLE on Scott, as he jerks open the door, his pistol at his

side.

ANGLE HIS POV. In the doorway beyond, we see a Bellboy,

holding a small paper bag, looking shocked.

Scott shoves the Bellboy back away from the door, and

glances, both ways, down the hall.

Scott drags him into the room.

Scott frisks him roughly. The terrified Bellboy shows a "Do

Not Disturb" sign, which he holds.

He begins to look through his pockets. As the Bellboy stands,

looking at the television.

ANGLE on Scott, the television beyond him. As he goes

through the pockets of his jeans. He then goes through the

pockets of his jacket, and throws various objects on the bed.

Some coins, some scraps of paper. A book of matches, some

crumpled cigarettes. He hands some bills to the Bellboy.

ANGLE, on Scott. As he rummages through the pile on the bed.

The TV shows photos of Laura Newton, wearing her red

crescent earrings.

Scott picks up a cigarette and the book of matches on the bed.

Part of the pile shows a tabloid paper - a photo of   Laura,

an insert of her father weeping at the funeral, and   the

caption "Goodbye, Baby". He bends down and picks up   the

Rogers Rangers card. And looks at it. He shakes his   head. As

we see the Bellboy leave the room. Beat.

INT. DARK, PANELLED CONFESSIONAL. NIGHT.

XCU on Scott, as he thinks for a moment, then speaks.

He raises a shotglass to his lips, and drinks. He makes a

"another one" gesture. Pause.

ANGLE, as a waiter comes, with a fresh drink. We see that we

are in a very dark, quiet, smoky, panelled bar. The waiter

leaves, and reveals, beyond him, Jackie Black, the female

Sergeant we met at the training facility scenes. The waiter

looks at her, inquiring silently, if she wants anything. She

shakes her head.

Scott, looks around, he takes up a tabloid newspaper, which

has been resting on the seat of the booth. We see it is a

"funeral" edition, concerning the death of Laura Newton.

We see the large, color photo of Laura, her red hair, and,

in an insert, her father, at the gravesite, hiding his face.

The caption reads "Goodbye, Baby". Scott leans over, and

whispers to Black, his deepest secret.

EXT. SANITORIUM. DAY.

Scott, shaven, neat, and determined, standing at a bus stop.

Reading a newspaper. Behind him, a large iron fence.

ANGLE INS. The newspaper shows "The Tragic Death of Laura

Newton", and photos of the accident. And a photo of a

distraught woman in sunglasses, being held up by two friends.

ANGLE on Scott. As he looks across the street. Surreptitiously.

ANGLE HIS POV. A plainclothes car, with two people in it,

looking vaguely in his direction.

ANGLE on the bus, as it pulls into the stop. We see various

people start onto the bus. At the last moment Scott, at the

back of the line, sheers away.

ANGLE, INT. THE PLAINCLOTHES CAR. The bus pulling away from

the bus stop, the chainlink fence beyond it, and, beyond

that, a vaguely institutional-looking Colonial building.

INT. SANITORIUM. DAY.

A nurses station, Scott moving through the area, just asking

directions of an older woman, obviously a semi-invalid.

ANGLE INT. SANITORIUM. The woman is Mrs. Newton. She walks

with a companion, she wears sunglasses, and starts out of

the sanitorium. As Scott walks up, some yards behind her,

following her out onto a roofed porch. The woman moves to

the far end of the porch, obviously weeping. Scott enters

the porch, and stands for a moment. Beat.

Scott turns to her, to see a lovely woman in her late

fifties, sitting on a lounge chair, a robe over her legs,

indicating the weeping woman.

Scott nods, and takes something from his pocket. He starts

toward the weeping woman, but the other woman holds him with

her voice.

Scott nods his acceptance of her wisdom, and begins to start

toward the woman.

Scott begins to move toward Mrs. Newton. The woman on the

lounge chair sits up.

The woman moves her blanket to reveal a pistol which she holds.

He opens his hands to show the red crescent earring. We see

the demeanor of the woman in back of him change, as she sees

the earring. She comes up to Scott, and he turns around. She

looks up, asking, mutely, what it means.

INT. SMALL SANITORIUM ROOM. DAY.

A female Agent knocks at the door and sticks her head in and

Donny gestures "rotate".

Donny gestures that she has heard. The Agent leaves and the

door is closed.

She takes out a small, tattered, cheap earring box.

ANGLE INS. We see the empty place for holding two earrings,

and a small arcade photo of a five-year-old Laura Newton,

and this woman, Donny, fifteen years younger. They are

hugging. Scott turns over the photo to read, in a childish

scrawl, "Donny, you can keep the box, cause I'll never take

them off". Donny starts to weep.

ANGLE. Both look to the side.

ANGLE, their POV. One of the Secret Service Agents, looking

askance at Scott. Does a double-take. And begins to raise

his cuff mike to his lips to speak.

ANGLE, on Donny, as she sees this, and turns around.

ANGLE, her POV. The empty room. Scott vanished.

INT. NEW YORK CITY OFFICE BUILDING. DAY.

A very beautiful young woman in a business suit, in an

elevator. The doors open and Scott, dressed in a suit, gets

in. He turns to face the front. They ride up in silence.

The doors open on a mezzanine. There are several men at the

end of the mezzanine. Scott starts to get out, and the girl

tries to stop him. He shoves her roughly back into the

elevator. Several of the men come toward Scott, and a large,

portly businessman in his forties (AVI) calls them off.

Scott comes forward.

Avi motions Scott to come with him.

ANGLE, Avi's hitters. One starts to take out a phone - Avi

waves him to stop - HOLD on the hitters.

ANGLE, Avi and Scott, as they sit, near the edge of the

mezzanine.

What if I'm speaking for them...?

Avi nods, meaning "yeah, sure".

He writes a number on a sheet of paper.

EXT. PALATIAL ESTATE. DAY.

We see a woman getting into a Range Rover, in the vast

gravel drive outside of an estate.

A man comes out of the house, with a cup of coffee, hurrying

out to kiss his wife goodbye. He does so. She drives off.

He finishes the cup of coffee, puts it down outside his door,

closes the door, and looks quickly at his watch, and hurries

to his Jaguar, which he puts in gear, and it starts down the

drive.

We see it is the Businessman from the whorehouse.

ANGLE on another car, coming down the drive, which smashes

into the Jaguar.

ANGLE on Scott, who gets hurriedly out of the car. He goes

out to the Jag, and drags the stunned man from his car, and

toward the house.

ANGLE INT. A SUMPTUOUS STUDY, PALATIAL ESTATE. DAY.

Beautiful Greek and Roman artifacts line the walls, on

lighted shelves. Scott drags the stunned and abraided

Businessman into the study. Scott throws him into a chair.

ANGLE Scott, as he takes out the Businessman's card, and

looks at it.

He brings over a telephone, and gives it to the Businessman.

Scott finds himself behind a large desk.

He looks down at photos of the smiling Businessman, in

various poses, with two young girls, obviously his daughters.

The Businessman pauses, then picks up the phone.

EXT. WAREHOUSE DISTRICT STREET. DAY.

Scott, getting out of his car, rounds a corner. We see a car

coming down this street, rather quickly. Scott retreats into

a doorway.

ANGLE, HIS POV. The car blinks its lights three times.

ANGLE EXT. THE STREET. We see the car slow almost to a stop,

Scott emerges from his doorway. As the car's rear door is

opened, Scott gets in.

INT. WAREHOUSE OFFICE. DAY.

Avi and Scott, at a small table.

Scott opens another envelope which Avi has passed him. As he

looks at the documents he pours out.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he looks, questioningly at Avi. Avi

takes a photo from his desk and passes it to Scott. It shows,

through a long lens, blurry and grainy, a photo of what is

obviously the platinum-haired Laura Newton, sitting on a bed,

in a barred room.

Scott scoops up the documents, and stands.

Avi shakes his head, and wags his finger, as if to say, "No,

in all sincerity..."

Beat. Scott takes an envelope, and hands it to Avi, who

opens it. He opens his mouth to speak.

EXT. ROOFTOP, DUBAI. DUSK.

Scott, on a rooftop, behind a raised elevator housing. Scott

takes out a pair of binoculars, and Scott leans around the

elevator housing.

ANGLE HIS POV. Across the way, the window, and the ornate

scrollwork bars, in which we, earlier, saw the photo takes

on Laura Newton.

ANGLE on Scott, as he comes back behind cover, and nods to

himself, picking up his yellow bag.

ANGLE EXT. DUBAI STREET. Scott, walking down the street,

beyond him a building with an ornate scrollwork barred gate

over its courtyard door. In the courtyard beyond, two

Mercedes 600's.

As Scott walks past the trelliswork it begins to open. A

delivery truck is ushered through the gate, by an armed

guard. Scott stops, to let the truck pass.

ANGLE HIS POV. As he turns his head to the side.

ANGLE HIS POV. Walking from one outbuilding, across the

courtyard, beyond the gate, accompanied by a minder, is

Laura Newton. She is obviously drugged, disoriented, and is

held up by the guard. He gets into a conversation with a

woman, dressed as a matron, who comes out of the building

they have just vacated. And she stands, for an instant,

untended.

ANGLE on Scott, the gate open, as the gate guard ushers

through the delivery van, and Laura Newton stands several

yards away.

ANGLE XCU, Laura Newton, as she looks in his direction, and

her eyes begin to focus, as if trying to make sense of what

she is seeing.

ANGLE, her minder, who reacts to a change in her attitude,

and looks at her, and, then, follows the direction of her

gaze to the gate.

ANGLE HIS POV. The delivery truck coming through the gate,

as the gate closes behind it. The street beyond it, empty.

ANGLE INT. THE COURTYARD. As the delivery truck pulls in,

and Laura, escorted by her guard, is taken back into the

main house. She turns to look back, groggily, wonderingly,

at the street, and is pushed into the door. As she does so,

we see the delivery truck pull up to the spot she just

vacated, and the delivery man gets out and opens a rear door,

on which we see scrawled, in the dirt, the "Picasso" symbol.

ANGLE EXT. DUBAI STREET CORNER. Scott turns the corner, and

gets into a car, driven by Jones, which comes to the curb.

ANGLE INT. THE CAR. In the backseat, Scott, another man

sitting next to him, SMITH, dressed as a construction worker.

The man starts to speak. And Scott shushes him, takes out a

notebook and a pencil, and begins to make notes.

EXT. CAR, DUBAI. NIGHT.

A deserted streetcorner. Various shuttered posh shops. Scott

walking across the street.

ANGLE CU on Scott, as he paces, as he walks.

The camera takes him to the middle of the street. A right-

hand turn, a tight corner. He looks to his left.

ANGLE HIS POV. Beyond him, we see, several streets off, the

sign of the "Royale" hotel.

Scott beckons, and the man, Smith, comes out of the shadows.

He and Scott walk to a small passageway, at the corner.

Camera takes them through the passageway, where we see Jones,

standing by his car, in an alley.

ANGLE, tight on Scott, and Jones.

INT. WAREHOUSE ROOM. NIGHT.

Scott, at a desk, looking over his plans. A photo of Laura

Newton on his desk. Beyond him Smith and Jones are cleaning

and assembling weapons. Scott takes out his switchblade and

begins to hone it. Scott looks into the mechanism of the

knife. Peers intently, turns it over and raps it on the

table. We see a small seed fall out. Smith turns to the

sound, and looks inquisitively at Scott.

Smith nods as if to say,"If you say so".

Scott reaches over to a box of Q-Tips, which sits on the

table along with other cleansing paraphernalia, and dips one

in the solvent bottle, and begins to clean the interior of

his switchblade.

ANGLE XCU on Scott, as he cleans the interior of his knife.

His face freezes...Scott leans over, and gestures at a

tweezers as part of Smith's cleaning kit. Smith nods "okay".

ANGLE INSERT. The interior of the knife. A small, wafer thin

electronic device adhering to the interior.

ANGLE on Scott. As he turns his back on the group. We see,

in an insert. He holds the electronic device up for scrutiny,

in the tweezers. He walks toward the windows of the warehouse.

We hear a car driving up, outside the warehouse. He looks

out of the window.

ANGLE, HIS POV. Just seen, the nose of a small SUV, around

the corner, three men, getting out of the car.

ANGLE INT. WAREHOUSE DAY. Scott walks into a corridor of the

warehouse. He looks down an industrial staircase, and sees

the door at the bottom begin to open, stealthily.

ANGLE, camera takes Scott to a small, filthy bathroom. He

opens the door.

ANGLE, at the bottom of the stairs, Stoddard, with two

henchmen, heavily armed, look up.

ANGLE THEIR POV. Scott walking into the bathroom.

ANGLE, a floor of the warehouse. Stoddard, and his

accomplices, coming up the stairs to the floor, which holds

Scott. There are several closed doors. One of the men

consults a small hand-held 'GPS' unit, and points at one of

the doors. The men take up position around this door.

Stoddard nods, and they open fire through the door.

ANGLE, INT. THE BATHROOM. The men kick down the door, to

find the small cubicle-like room empty. One of them looks

around, and sees, and removes the small wafer-thin electronic

device from the top of the cistern. He shows it to Stoddard,

who throws it down in disgust. As he, followed by his men,

exit the room.

ANGLE EXT. DUBAI STREET. NIGHT. We see the small SUV parked

around the corner from the warehouse, a black clad driver,

sitting in the car, watching the warehouse.

The door is wrenched open, and we see Scott, the small

yellow duffle over his shoulder, drag the driver from the

car, and clout him to the ground. Scott gets into the car,

which begins to drive off.

INT. "MASKALA HOUSE" (THE HOUSE WITH THE ORNATE SCROLLWORK).

DUBAI. NIGHT.

ANGLE, Laura Newton, drugged, listless, sitting on the bed

in the small room. We hear a large explosion, and Laura gets

up, and moves toward the door of her room. She hears another

explosion, and shouts coming from outside her door. She is

reaching for the handle of the door, when the door opens,

and one of her Bodyguards opens the door, and addresses her.

He turns as another explosion is heard, coming from the

interior of the house. As he turns we hear glass breaking,

and see Scott entering through the window behind Laura.

The Bodyguard turns, and Scott raises a silenced    pistol, and

shoots the Bodyguard twice. The Bodyguard falls,    Scott moves

to him, and drags him inside the room. He raises    his pistol

gesturing "shush" to Laura, and moves her toward    the window.

He uses the rope outside   the   window to improvise a sling,

for Laura, and drapes it   over   her head, and under her arms.

Scott picks her up, and   holds   her for a moment. She starts

to speak. And he answers   her   question.

He hesitates for a moment. We hear another explosion, he

nods, as if to say "That's what we're waiting for", and

passes her out of the window, and begins lowering her to the

ground.

ANGLE EXT. THE BUILDING. Laura, on the rope, reaching the

ground.

ANGLE INT. THE ROOM. Scott, as he turns to the sound of the

door opening, two men come through the door, and he shoots them.

ANGLE EXT. THE BUILDING. Scott puts Laura into the SUV and

gets behind the driver's seat. He puts the car in gear, and

it begins to drive off.

ANGLE INT. THE CAR. Laura turns to face him.

She shakes her head. Drugged. Trying to make sense of the

proceedings.

He draws the Picasso sign on the windshield, she looks at it,

having trouble focusing.

ANGLE EXT. THE CAR. Moving through the streets. The airport

just becoming visible in the background.

INT. BARE ROOM. DUBAI. NIGHT.

Laura, asleep, at a small cardtable. Out of the window we

see an expanse of desert and scrub. Her head is down. Scott

enters the room, he moves a chair in front of the door,

moves to Laura, and manhandles her to a small cot, and

closes the shutters to the window.

We see her wake and look around, trying to place herself.

ANGLE on Scott, as he takes out a notebook and begins to

make notes in it.

She takes out a crumpled pack of cigarettes, and extracts

the last one. She takes out a match.

He looks down his list, and nods. He takes a bandana from

his pocket and hands it to her.

He shushes her, and moves to the window.

ANGLE, EXT. The window. The first gleam of dawn. And, far

off, a Muezzin is heard chanting morning prayers. Laura

moves toward him, unbuttoning her blouse.

He slaps her lightly in the face.

She reacts violently to the sight of the needle. Beat. Then,

she sits on the bed and cries self-pityingly.

Hold. On Scott. And we take him back to a small shelf near

the door. He takes down what we see is an ashtray, overfull

with yellow-brown cigarette butts. He takes the ashtray to

the small table, takes out his knife, and begins shredding

the butts, and gathering the tobacco into a pile.

Scott looks at the pile of tobacco. He extracts the "Rogers

Rangers" card from his pocket and looks at it. We read, in

an insert: "Rule #13: Every night, you'll be told where to

Meet, if Surrounded by Superior Force".

ANGLE, on Scott, as he very precisely peels the card into

two thin halves, and rolls one of the halves into a

cigarette, using the reclaimed tobacco from the ashtray. He

takes the cigarette to Laura. As a peace offering. She takes

it. Beat.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he hears a car outside the window. He

draws a pistol and moves to the window, and looks down. He

gestures Laura to be quiet.

ANGLE EXT. The window. In the small, deserted street. A car

pulls up. A man gets out, and looks around. Beat. Another

man, and a woman, and two small children come out of the low

house and get into the car, which drives away.

He looks at her. Beat. She hands him the cigarette. And he

takes a drag, and passes it back. He checks his watch.

Beat. She turns away, and cries.

EXT. DUBAI AIRPORT. DAY.

A long view of the airport.

ANGLE, a small delivery van we saw earlier. Parked in an

industrial area.

ANGLE INT THE VAN. Laura, dozing in the passengers seat.

Scott, sitting in the driver's seat, alert, watching.

ANGLE HIS POV. Seen beyond the corner of an industrial

building, beyond a chainlink fence, the airport.

ANGLE INT. THE CAR. Laura wakes with a start, and looks around.

ANGLE Scott as he looks up to the sound of a plane.

ANGLE HIS POV. Directly over their heads, a small bizjet, on

final, about to touch down.

ANGLE, the chainlink fence. Scott and Laura at the fence

protecting the airport. Scott moves aside the pre-cut

section of fence, and gestures him through.

ANGLE, inside the fence. Laura and Scott moving to the

protection of a small hangar.

ANGLE, beyond them, we see the bizjet come to a halt, on the

tarmac, and turn. We see blazoned, on its side, "Global News".

ANGLE, on Scott and Laura, now inside the small hangar.

Scott moves to a small locker and extracts a set of

coveralls, and a cap, and takes them to Laura.

A pause. He turns to the sound of a car.

ANGLE HIS POV. A car, on the tarmac. It comes to a stop by a

private plane. Beyond this private plane, we see the "Global

News" bizjet, being directed to a stop.

ANGLE, on Scott, as he watches the tarmac.

ANGLE HIS POV. Stoddard and several of his men, get out of

the car which has stopped by the private plane. A man in

fatigues emerges from the plane, and hands Stoddard a piece

of paper. Stoddard begins giving this man directions.

ANGLE INT. THE CARGO HANGAR. Scott and Laura, who now has on

the mechanics coveralls.

ANGLE Scott, as he looks out of the hangar door. To his

right, the plane with Stoddard and his men, to his left, the

"Global News" bizjet, its hatchway staircase, just descending.

ANGLE on Scott, as he looks at his watch. He turns to Laura.

ANGLE EXT. THE NEWS BIZJET. Where a man in a safari jacket,

and a woman emerge from the plane, and glare at the sun. We

see this man consult his watch.

ANGLE, on Scott and Laura, as he walks her out of the hangar,

and towards the news bizjet. In the B.G. We see Stoddard,

and his men, at their plane. Another car pulls up to

Stoddard, disgorging a man, who goes to conference with

Stoddard.

ANGLE, these two men.

He stops and picks up a pair of "paddles" from their

position, leaning against the nose wheel of a plane. They

walk on. In the BG we see Stoddard and his crew, searching.

She starts laughing, getting hysterical.

She starts to break free and Scott manoeuvres her into a

small hangar area. She is struggling mightily. Scott has his

hand over her mouth.

ANGLE. We see their feet moving through a pool of oil on the

concrete floor - we see she loses her footing. We see Scott

tighten his grip on her, and is furiously trying to calm her.

We see him work a small hypodermic kit from the pocket of

his jacket. We see Laura see it, and her eyes grow wide.

Laura reacts to the hypodermic, which Scott is bringing

toward her. And screams.

EXT. THE HANGAR AREA.

We see Stoddard, and his men, about to get into their Jeep,

stop, and turn at the sound.

ANGLE INT. The Hangar Area. Signs all over marked in Arabic

and English - "Petrol - No Smoking!!"

As Scott lunges after Laura, the door, behind her bursts

open, and Stoddard and an accomplice enter, placing Laura,

in the midst of the hangar, between Stoddard and Scott. Who

stands in front of a large tanker labelled "Aviation Gasoline".

ANGLE on Laura, standing between the two men. She is

completely confused. She looks from one to another.

He points at his bizjet, outside, on the tarmac. Laura walks,

unsteadily, in the direction pointed, and we see a female

attendant, in a vaguely military getup, get out of the plane,

and begin to walk toward Laura.

He starts toward Laura. And Stoddard and his two men

interpose themselves between Scott and Laura, who is

approaching the plane. Stoddard's two men approach Scott.

One draws a knife.

ANGLE on Scott, who hangs his head, wearily. He looks down

at his empty hands.

ANGLE on the man with the knife, approaching him.

ANGLE on Scott, straightening himself, as if submitting to

the inevitable, as the man with the knife draws closer. He

makes a thrust, and covers. Scott steps toward him and spits

at him, full in the face. The man with the knife recoils for

a moment, and Scott disarms him, throws him viciously to the

concrete floor, and stomps on him. Scott bends to pick up

the knife the man has dropped, and turns to face the other

man. As he does so, he slips on what we see is a large pool

of oil on the floor. He goes down heavily. And the second

man steps into him as he falls, drawing his pistol.

The man uses the pistol to cuff Scott, who is attempting to

rise to his knees, behind the ear. Scott falls.

The man handcuffs Scott behind his back.

ANGLE on Scott shaking his head to clear it, as he now

struggles to his knees.

ANGLE, his POV. Laura Newton, walking toward the bizjet.

ANGLE. On the tarmac. Laura, walking toward the plane, the

petroleum storage hangar behind her. We see a vaguely

military uniformed woman fall into step beside her and take

her arm. Laura looks at her. We see Laura full face, and

just the shoulder of the woman escorting her. Beyond them we

hear the engine of the bizjet start up.

Laura looks at her questioningly.

ANGLE, to show that the stewardess, who descended from the

bizjet (the vaguely military clad young woman we saw earlier)

is still on station outside of the bizjet, and that the

woman who is walking and talking with Laura is Jackie Black,

the young female sergeant we met earlier. Laura looks at her

uncomprehendingly. Laura begins shaking her head pathetically,

and protesting, drawing away from Jackie Black.

ANGLE, INT. The Petroleum Hangar. Day.

ANGLE, on Laura and Jackie Black. Standing immobile. Laura

looks down at something. She then looks up, her face transfixed.

ANGLE, on Jackie Black's hands, she holds the cheap jewelry

box we saw earlier, and, in it. The photo of Laura and Donny,

and the legend: "Donny you can keep this box, cause I will

never take them off."

ANGLE XCU, on Laura, as she looks at Jackie, who now moves

Laura away from the bizjet, and towards the assemblage of

newspeople, who are on the tarmac, around the "global news" jet.

ANGLE, EXT. The Global News Jet. A female reporter,

gossiping, with some of her crew, looks over in the

direction of Laura and Jackie, and does a double-take.

ANGLE, on Stoddard, his man, and Scott. As they leave the

hangar. Stoddard looks around.

ANGLE, his POV. Inside the hangar, the fallen man, that

Scott has killed. Stoddard goes back inside, to drag this

man away. He looks up. And, as he does so, he sees Laura,

walking with Jackie Black, toward the Global News Plane.

ANGLE, on Jackie Black and Laura, walking toward the plane,

where we see the crew hurriedly setting up a camera.

ANGLE, on Stoddard, as he draws his pistol, and fires toward

Laura and Jackie. We see Jackie move to shield Laura, and

then, struck by a bullet, she goes down.

ANGLE, on Scott, in the grip of Stoddard's henchman.

In the moment he is distracted. Scott breaks the man's grip,

and his arm. He knees the man, and kicks him to the ground.

ANGLE, INT. The Global Jet. The news crew reacts to the shot.

Beyond them we see Jackie, fallen to the tarmac, and Laura,

is walking toward the newspeople.

Inside the jet we see various monitors, and one switches

from an innocuous travelogue, to the scene at the airport,

and the caption "Live". We see the shot is taken from inside

the plane. We see Laura stumbling toward the bizjet, and see

the female reporter run out of the plane, and move her to

safety inside the cabin.

The camera shifts to the image of Laura Newton, going out

live. Behind her we hear the crew shooting commands, and see

the door to the Global jet close, as the jet begins to taxi.

ANGLE, INT. The Petroleum Hangar. We see Stoddard, reloading

his pistol. In the BG we see Scott step through his

handcuffs, that is, bring them in front of his body. He

takes a pistol from the henchman, who is writing on the

floor. He raises the pistol and shoots the henchman. He

turns on Stoddard.

He walks toward Stoddard,who is fumbling, trying to reload

his pistol.

He shoots Stoddard, who falls.

ANGLE, INT. The Bizjet, as it taxis. Laura Newton turns her

face to the sound of the shot.

ANGLE, her POV. Jackie Black, on the tarmac, Scott, kneeling

to the fallen Stoddard, and then running out of the hangar

toward her.

ANGLE, on Scott, running, as we see he has the key he has

taken from Stoddard, and is releasing his handcuffs.

ANGLE Jackie Black, bleeding, as Scott kneels to her, and

cradles her. Scott looks down. Black is weakening, and

obviously expiring.

ANGLE on Scott, cradling her. Weeping, as he smoothes her hair.

FADE OUT.

SPARTAN

A Screenplay by David Mamet

Copyright c 2002

By David Mamet

