FADE IN:

A white on black TITLE appears in the lower left hand corner

of the screen:

AUGUST, 1936

FADE IN:

EXT. A SLUM AREA OF JOLIET - DAY

It's a bleak, windy morning, the kind that clears the

streets of all but the winos (who carry their own heaters),

and the point-men for juvenile gangs.  We pick up a solitary

figure, Joe Mottola, coming down the street and entering

what appears to be an abandoned tenement.  He pauses a

second to dust his white-winged alligator shoes on the back

of his pants leg.  Sharply dressed and surrounded by the

aura of one who is making money for the first time and

broadcasting it on all bands, he seems an incongruity in

this part of town.

We follow him up a flight of rickety stairs to a second

floor flat.  He knocks on the door, is admitted by a cautious

doorman.

INT. NUMBERS SPOT - DAY

Suddenly we are plunged into a room of chattering, clamoring

people.  This is a spot for the numbers racket, a place

immune from legal interference, where any sucker can bet on

a number between 1 and 1000 in the hope of getting the 600

to 1 payoff that goes to those few who guess right.  The

bettors are queued up in several lines before a long table,

where they place their bets and are given receipts in return.

Others wait at a cashier's window to pick up previous

earnings or to ask for credit.

Mottola moves through the crowd to a back room where betting

slips are being sorted and money counted under the watchful

and somewhat impatient gaze of a Supervisor, an older man

named Mr. Granger.  The Yankee-White Sox game is heard on

the radio in the background.

Mottola, noticing that his entrance has aroused little

interest, saunters over to the Phone Girl and gives her a

little pinch on the cheek.  The girl slaps his hand away,

obviously having been through this before.

Granger glances up and exchanges a token nod with Mottola,

who plops down in a folding chair next to the radio.  The

phone rings.

Granger is a little apprehensive about talking to Chicago,

but takes the phone anyway.

INT. A WATERFRONT PROCESSING PLANT - CHICAGO - DAY

A flabby, bald man named Combs is on the other end of the

line.  Visible beyond the door and interior window of his

office is a large room, cluttered with tables, typewriters,

clerks and adding machines.  This room is the clearinghouse

for all the transaction of the numbers game.  All the

betting slips and income from the spots are brought in here

and processed.

INT. NUMBERS SPOT - DAY

Granger burns inside.  One of the girls who's been sorting

and counting hands him a slip of paper.

Combs hangs up, smiling to himself, proud of the way he gave

the needle to Granger.

INT. NUMBERS SPOT - DAY

Granger storming over to a safe and jerking open the door.

Mottola hustles out of his chair.

Mottola takes the money and slips it into his inside coat

pocket with all the dramatic flair of the true flunky.  No

one would ever guess that he was just an overdressed

messenger boy.

EXT. OF THE TENEMENT AGAIN

Mottola emerges from a side entrance into a narrow alley.

He walks briskly down to the end and turns left into a large

alleyway; this one connecting two streets.  The alley is

deserted save for one scruffy, slovenly dressed young

stranger coming toward him from the opposite direction.  The

man carries a battered suitcase and seems to be in a hurry.

Suddenly, Mottola hears shouting coming from somewhere

behind him.  He turns around to see a small, weathered

looking thief come racing around the corner and down the

alley toward him, frantically pursued by a gray-haired black

man.  Limping noticeably, the black man manages a few cries

for help and then stumbles and falls.  The stranger yells at

Mottola to cover his side of the alley, and then readies

himself for the arrival of the thief.  Mottola just stands

there, not the least interested in the exercise of justice.

Just as the thief is about to run on by, the stranger throws

his suitcase at the little man's legs, sending him sprawling

and separating him from the wallet he's been carrying in his

left hand.

The stranger makes a dash for the wallet and kicks it back

to where Mottola is standing.  Almost by reflex, Mottola

picks it up.  The thief scrambles to his feet and starts

back toward his new-found enemy, brandishing a knife.  Both

the stranger and Mottola brace themselves for an attack.

The thief, realizing that there are two people to fight,

begins to think better of it.  He is not a young man, nor

particularly strong.

Mottola and the stranger exchange glances of relief as the

thief flees out onto the street and disappears.

The black man, meanwhile, has struggled to his feet and is

staggering toward them.  He collapses against the alley wall

after a few steps.  The stranger rushes over to him, followed

somewhat absently by Mottola.

The stranger opens the Black Man's coat to reveal a bloody

wound at the top of his leg.

Mottola has given him his wallet, which the black man now

opens, disclosing a fat bundle of bills tied by a rubber

band.  Mottola and the stranger are amazed by the amount of

money.

Mottola puts the bills in his inside coat pocket, right next

to the numbers money.  The stranger, who has now finished

bandaging, watches him do it.

The stranger goes into the right coat pocket and pulls out a

wrinkled handkerchief.

Mottola takes out the Black Man's five grand and hands it to

the Stranger.  He puts it in the handkerchief.

Mottola pulls out the numbers money and puts it in the

handkerchief too.  The stranger ties it all up.

The Black Man nods gratefully, but there's still a trace of

worry on his face.  Mottola trots off down the alley and out

onto the street, glancing around cautiously for signs of

trouble.  He walks hurriedly down the sidewalk toward the

cab stand in the distance.  Suddenly the little man with the

knife appears out of a doorway about 15 yards behind him.

Mottola notices him and quickens his pace, finally breaking

into a dead run.

We follow him as he dashes headlong down the street, opening

a big lead on the guy with the knife.  He reaches the taxi

zone.  He hops in a cab and slams the door.

INT. TAXI - DAY

He jumps in, closes the door, and breathes a sigh of relief.

He takes the bundle out from inside his pants in order to

gaze upon his new-found fortune.  He unties the handkerchief.

It's full of toilet paper.  Mottola looks like he's just

been shot.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY - THE STRANGER AND BLACK MAN

hightailing it down the street, two newly solvent con

artists on the lam.  It's hard to run they're laughing so

hard.  The stranger chucks his suitcase in a trash can and

pulls the real handkerchief out of his pants.

As they split off, music begins, and we go into a

TITLES SEQUENCE

Done to a driving Chicago blues, the sequence is designed to

establish somewhat the milieu of the stranger, known to

friends and enemies alike as Hooker.  We see the following:

EXT. PAWNSHOP - LOOKING INSIDE - DAY

Hooker is getting a radio and well-worn suit out of hook.

It's like seeing old friends again.  All pantomime.

INT. HOOKER'S ROOM - DAY

A shabby little place he rents above a cigar store.  We pick

him up in a jerry-built outdoor shower, which he's rigged up

on the fire escape.  The rinse water drips down through the

landing into the grimy alley below.

ON THE STREET AGAIN

jauntily carrying a magnum of champagne and some flowers,

obviously on his way to see someone special.

IN A BURLESQUE HOUSE

Hooker stands in the wings holding the flowers and champagne,

watching his date for the evening, a 6'3" stripper named

Crystal, do her routine.

Crystal finishes up and comes off the stage.

Crystal looks at him a second and starts to giggle.  We're

pretty sure she's gonna get outa here tonight.

COMING INTO A POOR MAN'S GAMBLING JOINT

Little more than a reconverted brick basement, the place

contains three shoddy, homemade roulette tables.  Hooker,

accompanied now by Crystal, nods a greeting to the doorman

and proceeds to a table where there are already several

other people laying their bets for the next spin.  Hooker

knows the wheel man, an old-timer named Jimmy.

As Jimmy finishes his spiel, he starts the wheel spinning

and drops in the ball.  Betting is allowed to continue until

the ball drops from the outer ring into the center.

Jimmy is stunned.  The others at the table, used to dollar

bets, look at Hooker like he's some kind of foreign dignitary.

Jimmy wants to argue some more, but the ball is getting

ready to drop into the center.  We see Jimmy quickly press a

hidden lever under the table with his foot.  The ball falls

and settles into red 27 with a motion that is not quite

right.  The others at the table fail to notice, but Hooker

is not fooled.  He stares venomously at Jimmy, who knows

that Hooker is on to him.

Jimmy reaches for Hooker's money.  Hooker stops him by

putting his hand on it.

Jimmy doesn't know what the hell to do.  He gives Hooker a

little head motion to indicate a small window high up in one

of the walls.  Behind it, we see a pair of eyes.  Suddenly,

Hooker understands why Jimmy had to cheat him, but it

doesn't change his demand.

Jimmy is beside himself.  If he doesn't spin again, Hooker

may expose him.  If he does spin, and loses, his management

will fire him.  He pleads to Hooker with his eyes, but it's

no use.  Jimmy spins the wheel and reluctantly drops in the

ball.  This time there is no foot on the lever, and it

settles into black 15.  Hooker stares at the ball a second

and then looks up at his terrified friend.

Hooker pushes the money over to Jimmy and walks out of the

room.  He's lost $3,000, but he's still working on a lucky

night.

EXT. GAMBLING JOINT

Hooker and Crystal out on the street.

She walks off down the street.

EXT. THE WATERFRONT PROCESSING PLANT - LATE AFTERNOON

A late model Ford roars up and screeches to a stop in front

of the plant.  Out bursts a carefully-groomed, tight-lipped

young man named Greer, who hustles into the plant.  We

follow him through a maze of machinery to the service

elevator and up to the third floor where we find ourselves

in the clearinghouse room we saw earlier.

INT. PLANT - AFTERNOON - LATE

The working day is over now, and everyone has gone, except

for Combs, who sits somberly in his office.

Combs sits in quiet thought for a second.  Finally:

INT. AN EXCLUSIVE NEW YORK GAMBLING CLUB - LATE AFTERNOON

An agitated young man, Floyd, weaves his way through the

craps and roulette tables, and hustles up a staircase to a

second floor room with a drawing of a snarling tiger on the

door.  Below the tiger, the word "FARO" appears.  There is a

large man, of thuggish demeanor, guarding the door, but

Floyd gives him a small hand signal and walks right by him.

INSIDE THE FARO ROOM

In the center is a beautifully-carved wooden table, on which

sit a faro board and a dealing box, tended by a stone-faced

Dealer, who calls the progress of the game in a continuous

abacus-like device that keeps track of the cards which have

already been played.  On the opposite side of the table,

completely absorbed in the rhythmic appearance of the cards

from the dealing box, sits Doyle Lonnegan.  Although is

clothes and accessories are those of a wealthy man, there is

a coarseness to both his movement and speech which bespeak

lower class origins, for which he now has nothing but

contempt.

Floyd enters the room and approaches him cautiously, trying

hard to make as little noise as possible.

INT. AN OLD BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

Hooker, still in his suit, but looking a little worse for

wear, knocks on the door of one of the apartments.  A young

black woman, Louise, answers the door, holding a baby.

Hooker steps inside and walks right into a big hug from an

older black woman, Alva.  Alva has a hat on, obviously just

about to go out.  Beyond her we see the Eirie kid and the

Black Man (known from here on as Luther Coleman) playing a

game of mah jong on the dining table with a man whose back

is to us.  An 11-year-old boy is listening to the radio.

Leroy goes to get his jacket.  Louise is finished putting

the baby to bed.

Luther nods that he will.  Alva, Leroy and Louise leave for

church as Hooker strolls over and tosses two packets on the

table.  Luther doesn't pick his up, but the other man does.

We now see that he is the thief in the opening sequence.  He

is called the Eirie kid and he is delighted at his share.

They laugh again, but Luther doesn't share their enthusiasm.

He watches Hooker who becomes uncomfortable under his gaze.

Hooker sinks back, embarrassed that he misread Coleman's

intentions.

Hooker knows it's no use.

Hooker just nods.

EXT. A DIMLY LIT STREET - NIGHT

It's late at night now.  Hooker and Eirie wander along the

street together, not really ready to go home, but with no

other ideas either.  Hooker, obviously preoccupied, idly

strikes a match on a street lamp as he passes and lets it

burn out.  He does this several times.

They walk on a few more feet, when suddenly a police car

pulls up alongside them and two men jump out.  The first, a

uniformed policeman, grabs Eirie around the neck.

Hooker makes a break for it, but the second Figure, a burly

detective named Snyder, tackles him in the middle of the

street, drags him back into the alley and plasters him up

against a brick wall.  The two have met before.

Snyder gives Hooker a swift knee in the thigh and follows it

with an elbow across the head.  Hooker flies into a row of

boxes and garbage cans.

Bang.  Snyder, infuriated by Hooker's irreverence, slams him

to the ground again.  The policeman is no longer holding

Eirie but is almost daring him to make a move.  Eirie wants

to go to Hooker's aid, but he knows the policeman will beat

him to a pulp.

Snyder lets go.  Hooker sinks back against the wall.  He

says nothing; he's waiting for the price.

Hooker is beat and he knows it.

He reaches into his coat, pulls out a stack of bills and

counts out $2000 to Snyder.  Eirie looks on in amazement; he

didn't think Hooker had it.

Snyder and his policeman friend get in their car and start

down the street.  Hooker and Eirie walk nonchalantly in the

other direction.

Snyder and his partner disappear around a corner.  Hooker

suddenly takes off like a shot.

INT. DRUGSTORE - NIGHT

He runs into a drugstore and goes to the phone booth.

There's already a woman in it.  Hooker rips open the door

and throws her out.  Hurriedly, he begins to dial.

Hooker, still getting no answer, slams the phone down and

blasts out of the booth.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Eirie chases him frantically, calling him to come back, but

he's giving away too many years and there's no stopping

Hooker at this point.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT - SHOTS OF HOOKER

Pumping down the street.

EXT. LUTHER'S BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

Hooker races into Luther's brownstone, charges up to the

third floor.

INT. LUTHER'S BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

Hooker runs up through a small group of people on the stairs.

He bursts into Luther's room, the door of which is already

open.  The room shows signs of a struggle, a turned-over

chair, a broken lamp, but there is no Coleman.  Hooker goes

slowly to the window.  He looks down into the courtyard and

then suddenly sprints back out the door.  As we hear him

scrambling down the stairs, the camera dollies to the window

and looks out.

EXT. COURTYARD - NIGHT

There on the concrete below, face down, is the body of

Luther Coleman.  Hooker races out to it and kneels down.

In the distance, sirens are heard.  Heads are out of the

windows and some people are starting to gather in the

courtyard.

The sirens are close now, and Hooker tears himself away from

Luther and runs.  The others gather to look at the body.

FADE IN:

THE SET-UP

FADE IN:

INT. THE TRAIN STATION - DAY

We open on Hooker sleeping in some remote corner of the

station, covered with newspapers for warmth, and barely

distinguishable from the clutter of junk surrounding him.  A

station security officer, on his morning sweep, wanders by

and delivers a terrific blow to the soles of Hooker's feet

with a nightstick.  Hooker jolts awake with a cry of pain,

as the officer diffidently moves on toward another sleeping

victim.

Tired and sore from his night in the station, Hooker

struggles to his feet and attempts to take stock of the

situation.  He tries to smooth the wrinkles out of his suit,

but it's futile.  A quick check of his wallet finds it as

empty as he'd remembered it.

THE STATION - GIFT SHOP - DAY

Hooker walks in and goes to the toy section.  He looks

through several small novelties, till he finds what he's

looking for -- a little tin replica of a policeman's badge.

He looks around for station detectives, and seeing none,

slips the badge into his pocket.

THE STATION - WASHROOM - DAY

Hooker rinses out his mouth, towels off his face and slicks

his hair back with water.  It's a drop in the bucket, but it

seems to revitalize him a little.

STATION - HALLWAY - DAY

We see Hooker removing a sign from a door, but the angle

prohibits us from reading it.

INT. STATION - DAY

He drops the sign in a waste can and walks out into the

crowded passenger lobby.  After scanning the area carefully

for a minute, he goes up to a conservative young business

man, who's busy reading the schedule board.

The Businessman is totally shamed.

The man goes off down the hall, more than grateful to be

given a break like this.  Hooker heads for the "back".  We

follow the Man down the hall to the unmarked door.  He

strides on through to find himself face to face with a wall

of busily flushing urinals.

EXT. STATION - DAY - HOOKER

Boarding the 8:10 for Chicago.

INT. STATION - DAY

The Man wandering up and down the hall, wondering how he

could have missed that room.

EXT. CHICAGO STREET - DAY

The street runs along side an elevated train track.  We pick

up Hooker coming down the street, eating a hot dog he bought

with the money he just earned in the train station.

He appears to be looking for an address, referring every now

and then to the piece of paper Luther gave him the night

before.  Finally he stops in front of an old three-story

building which contains a carousel on the bottom 2 floors

and what appear to be apartments on the third floor.  He

peers inside the big, sliding glass doors and seeing no sign

of life, goes around to the side to look for a way in.

A 35 year-old woman, Billie, appears in her bathrobe on the

second floor landing and descends the stairs to get the

morning paper.  She's eating an apple.  Although she has

just gotten up and looks it, she has the presence of one who

is probably quite striking at other hours.  The sight of

Hooker fazes her not at all.

Billie stops and comes back down the stairs.  It's the first

time she's stopped chewing.

She goes to a side door and unlocks it.

Hooker's not quite sure what that means, but there's

something about Billie that makes him know that you don't ask.

INT. CAROUSEL - DAY

Hooker walks past the now motionless carousel to the room in

the back and knocks on the door.  No answer.  He gives the

door a little push and it swings open.

INT. GONDORFF'S ROOM - DAY

The room inside if small and cluttered, consisting of a bed,

a sink, and a bathroom, all covered by a layer of books,

dirty clothes and beer bottles.  Draped over a chair, fully

dressed, but completely passed out is the one and only Henry

Gondorff.

INT. A SHOWER - DAY

Water blasting out of the fixture.  We see Gondorff, still

fully clothed, sitting in the bottom of the shower, the

spray streaming off his face.  An imposing figure, with deep

set eyes and full beard, he just sits there stoically,

looking like a soggy lumberjack.  Hooker, sitting on the

floor between the toilet and the sink, watches listlessly.

Finally --

Hooker makes no move to get up.  Gondorff struggles to his

knees, turns off the water, and slumps back against the wall.

The two men just look past each other a second.  Down in the

bottom.

Gondorff wipes his face with his hand.  His mood softens a

little.

Hooker's disappointment is obvious.

Hooker nods, unconvinced.

We go to Hooker.  He hadn't thought of that.

EXT. A BEAUTIFUL OLD COLONIAL COUNTRY CLUB - LONG ISLAND -

DAY

Lonnegan, in plus fours and argyles sits on a bench as other

members of his foursome tee off.  Floyd comes up to him.

Lonnegan regards Floyd patiently and then pats the bench

beside him.  Floyd sits gingerly.

We cut to one of Lonnegan's foursome, a short, squat little

Irishman in a red sweater.  He was a good-time, friendly

manner and a winning Irish smile.  We like him immediately.

Lonnegan is called to the tee by one of his foursome.  He

exchanges a friendly smile with McCoy and belts the ball

down the fairway.

INT. THE CAROUSEL AGAIN - DAY

Gondorff, dried off now and in a new set of clothes, is

pulling up the shades of the large facing windows of the

carousel building.  The morning light pours in, illuminating

fully for the first time the ornate merry-go-round and its

massive oaken horses.  Hooker watches him go about his

business.  Billie calls down from the mezzanine which

surrounds the carousel.

Gondorff waves okay.

Gondorff walks around on the carousel, checking straps,

bearing and poles.  Hooker follows him.

Gondorff just sits tight and waits for him to cool off.

It's the right answer. Gondorff didn't know it himself until

now.

Hooker nods.  Gondorff switches on the carousel and steps

back to admire his handiwork.  The carousel makes a grinding

sound, does a few lurches and stops cold.

Music begins and we are into a short:

MONTAGE SEQUENCE

Detailing the arrival of the others three members of

Gondorff's "mob." Throughout, Gondorff wears the fedora hat

which is his trademark.  We begin with --

A tall, good-looking man, Kid Twist, making his way through

the railway station.  Impeccably dressed and carrying a

small suitcase, he combs the terrain carefully with his eyes.

Finally he catches a glimpse of the thing he's been looking

for.  It's Gondorff, standing by a newsstand.  Gondorff

makes a quick snubbing motion on his nose as if flicking off

a gnat.  This is known among con men as the "office." Twist

returns the sign with a barely discernible smile as he walks

on by.  Con men rarely acknowledge each other openly in

public, but it's obvious that these two are glad to see each

other.

INT. BARBER SHOP - DAY

Hooker in, having his hair cut and his nails manicured.

Gondorff gives instructions to the barber.

INT. HABERDASHERY - DAY

Hooker is modeling a new suit in front of a mirror.  He

doesn't look too pleased, but Gondorff peels out a bankroll

anyway.

EXT. HOTEL - DAY

A pair of white spats stepping off a bus.  We follow them

into a:

INT. HOTEL LOBBY

Where we tilt up to reveal J.J. Singleton, the most

flamboyant of the bunch.  On his way to the check-in desk,

he silently exchanges the "office" with Gondorff, who is

sitting on a lounge reading the paper.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Hooker being shown into a small apartment room by an old

woman.  It consists of a bed, a table and a sink.  Hooker

nods his acceptance to the woman and gives her a bill.  He

takes another look around the room and decides to go out

somewhere, but first he wedges a small piece of paper

between the door and the jamb, about an inch off the floor.

INT. A BIG METROPOLITAN BANK - DAY

We hold on a slight, bespectacled teller, Eddie Niles, in

the process of counting a large deposit.  Niles is all

business; if he's ever smiled, no one knows about it.  He

glances up for a second and sees Gondorff "officing" him

from across the bank.  Without a word he shoves the money

he's been counting back into the hands of a startled

customer, abruptly closes up his window, flips his

identification tag on the manager's desk and walks out of

the bank.

INT. AN UPSTAIRS ROOM OF THE CAROUSEL BUILDING - NIGHT

This room has obviously been relegated to the status of the

storage room.  It contains the water heater, mops and

brooms, old bed springs, etc.  In the middle of the room a

space has been cleared for a table, around which are seated

Hooker, Gondorff, Niles, Singleton and Twist.  Gondorff is

in his T-shirt, but still wears his hat.  Kid Twist is in a

suit as usual.  The room is illuminated by a single bare

bulb hanging from the ceiling.

We recognize Riley and Cole as the two guys who got into

Mottola's cab.

We go to Hooker.  He's real grateful.  Billie, wearing an

evening dress, enters the room and begins gathering up the

empty beer mugs on the table.

Hooker nods, but we know he hasn't really got that.

Billie has finished  gathering the mugs, and leaves the room

with them.  We follow her down the hall and into the:

RECEIVING ROOM OF HER BROTHEL

Carousel music filters up from the arcade below.  The room

has a bar along one wall and the rest of the space is taken

up by tables and couches.  It's a comfortable place, but not

opulent.  Some of the girls sit patiently on the couches,

others play canasta at the tables.  Most of the men are at

the bar, fortifying themselves for the task at hand.  Billie

comes over to the bar.

As Danny goes to fill the mugs, Billie's eyes fix on a man

at the end of the bar.

We move to reveal Snyder, intently scanning the room, as if

he'd lost a dancing partner in the crush.  Not finding what

he wants, he comes down the bar to Billie.

Billie grabs a bottle of beer, pours some in a shot glass

and pushes it over to Snyder.  He ignores the gesture.

We go to Billie.  She knew that when he came in.

THE STORAGE ROOM AGAIN

The discussion continues.  Hooker, a bit out of his depth

here, listens and stays silent.

THE RECEIVING ROOM AGAIN

Snyder has completed his inspection of the "lobby" and found

nothing.  Danny, meanwhile, has set up the five beers on a

tray.

Snyder is stopped cold.  He calls after her.

THE STORAGE ROOM AGAIN

Billie comes over to Gondorff and whispers in his ear, while

the others talk.  His eyes flick momentarily to Hooker.

Gondorff has nodded to Billie and now rejoins the

conversation.  She serves the others beer.

He looks at Hooker.  There is a challenge in their book.

Gondorff smiles broadly, then casually, to them all.

We go around the table.  No reply.

He hitches up Billie's skirt, and puts the bill in her garter.

Billie smiles and leaves the room.

INT. HALLWAY

She walks halfway down the hall and stops.  She can't wait.

Lifting up her skirt, she finds that the five has indeed

turned to paper.  As she breaks into laughter and continues

on down the hall, we:

FADE IN:

THE HOOK

FADE IN:

EXT. A SUNKEN ALLEY - DAY

Actually little more than a service area between two

apartment buildings.  Niles, Kid Twist, and a middle-aged

black man, named Benny Garfield, enter the alley with an old

man and follow him down a stairwell to a subterranean

basement.  A faded sign above the door says Stenner's

Billiards.  We follow them inside to a:

INT. A LARGE BARREN ROOM - DAY

An office comes off it at one end.  Judging from the

fluorescent lights overhead and the scattered cue racks

which still hang tenuously on the walls, the place, indeed,

used to be a pool hall.  Niles and Garfield go all the way

to the back, while Twist stays near the front with the old

man.

Garfield thinks it over a little.  He's taking another look

at the place.  We go to Twist and the old man by the door.

We go back to Niles and Garfield.

Twist has rejoined them by now.

INT. A NEW YORK TRAIN STATION - DAY

We pick up Doyle Lonnegan, accompanied by two bodyguards and

Floyd, making his way through the station.  He stops at a

cigar counter to buy some cigarettes, and we reveal Gondorff

and Hooker sitting on their suitcases on the other side of

the room.

Hooker looks and finally spots him in the crowd.  We go back

to Lonnegan, as he moves off from the cigar counter, toward

his train.  Hooker watches him with the intensity of one

gazing on a religious object.

EXT. TRAIN

Lonnegan and his retainers getting on the train.  Two cars

down the line, we see Hooker and Gondorff boarding also.  On

his way in, Gordorff takes the conductor aside.

Gondorff flashes a $50 bill.

Gondorff pulls out another fifty.

INT. A BASEMENT BAR - EARLY EVENING

Kid Twist enters and threads his way through the maze of

tables to a door at the back of the building.  A large bull

of a man is stationed there, obviously to discourage those

who don't have credentials to enter.  Twist is not such a man.

INT. ANOTHER ROOM - EARLY EVENING

Inside is another room, this one much better lit than the

outer one.  There are only three tables in here, around

which are seated the elite of the Con World.  Twist is

enthusiastically greeted by Duke Boudreau, a large, rotund

man whose stylish dress and authoritative manner mark him as

a powerful figure in this group.

The two men sit down together, apart from the others.

THE OUTER PART OF THE BAR AGAIN

A silhouetted figure appears in the entrance doorway.  The

word "chill" races from table to table and the place falls

still.  The bartender pushes a button behind the bar and a

buzzer goes off in the back room.  Boudreau gets up from his

table and opens a small viewing port in the door.

The silhouetted figure is now walking slowly past the silent

tables.  It's Snyder and he's checking out every face in the

place.

Snyder walks all the way to the back, and then retraces his

route.  About halfway back, he stops at one of the tables,

recognizing a grifter he knows.  It's the Eirie Kid.

Snyder, in no mood for jokes, grabs Eirie by the hair and

slams his face into the table.  Eirie just stays there; he

knows it doesn't pay to assault a detective.  Twist is

watching all this intently from the viewing port.

Eirie raises his head slowly, but says nothing.  There is a

slight trickle of blood from his nose.  Snyder turns and

walks slowly out of the bar.  When he is a safe distance

down the street, the chatter and drinking resume.

THE INSIDE ROOM AGAIN

Twist gives an all clear signal and returns to the table

where he and Boudreau were talking.  Boudreau reads from a

list of names.  Twist listens with a certain preoccupation.

He's still thinking about the little confrontation he just

witnessed.

EXT. SPEEDING PASSENGER TRAIN - NIGHT

Ripping through an open stretch between New York and Chicago.

INT. TRAIN - NIGHT

Singleton is walking down a passageway and stops at a door

and goes in.

INT. GONDORFF'S COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Gondorff is rapidly shuffling cards to four empty places.

He is alone.  He looks up as Singleton enters.

Singleton slips out as Gondorff unpeels the packs.

INT. TRAIN - NIGHT

We pick up Lonnegan coming out of his compartment, flanked

by only one bodyguard and Floyd.  He starts through the

passenger section toward the compartment where the poker

game will be held.  Suddenly a drunken woman comes staggering

around the corner and bumps into him.

They grapple a moment and Lonnegan pushes her away in disgust.

Lonnegan ignores her and proceeds down the passageway.  As

the woman proceeds in the other direction between passengers,

we see it is Billie.  She drops something on a seat beside a

passenger.  A hand reaches to pick it up.  It is Lonnegan's

wallet and it is Hooker who picks it up.

Hooker waits a moment, then stands and goes in the direction

Lonnegan has taken.  He passes by the open door to the card

room, hesitating only slightly to hear the greetings

exchanged inside before the door is shut.  Then he continues

on into the next car.  He turns into Gondorff's compartment.

INT. GONDORFF'S COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Gondorff is still practicing.  He looks up as Hooker enters

and tosses him the wallet.

Gondorff nods, takes the money out, counts it.

He takes out his own wallet and puts the money in it, and

tosses the empty wallet back to Hooker, and resumes his

shuffling and dealing.  Hooker sits back silently and

watches him.

As he deals, on the second pass he attempts to cut from the

bottom, muffs it completely and sprays half the deck on the

table.  Hooker regards him steadily as he gathers them back

up.  Gondorff finally meets his gaze.

INT. THE POKER ROOM - NIGHT

A specially outfitted compartment with a table and chairs in

the middle and leather cushions around the outside for

kibitzers.  Lonnegan and 3 other players are already there

and seated.  They're getting slightly impatient.

GONDORFF'S CABIN AGAIN

Gondorff is standing in front of the mirror dressing.  He

grabs up a clean white shirt and rumples it up in his hands.

He then picks up a half-full bottle of bourbon.  Hooker

gives him a disapproving look.  Gondorff smiles and pats

some on his face.

THE POKER ROOM AGAIN

Everybody's itchy now.

The Conductor hands him a sealed deck.  As he begins to open

it, Gordoff comes into the room, coatless, rumpled, unshaven

and looking slightly tipsy.  The others at the table, all

men of high school or financial standing, are somewhat put

off.

This bit of grossness does little to improve his image.

Gondorff nods and takes a seat, none too gracefully.

He begins to deal, obviously not pleased that his evening

seems to be peopled with drunks.

EXT. THE SUNKEN ALLEY - NIGHT

A truck is now parked at the end of the alley, and several

workmen are busy unloading it.  One group carries a large

blackboard; others have boxes of glasses, ash tray stands,

furniture, etc.  Take several cuts.

INSIDE THE ONCE-VACANT POOL HALL

Now a blaze of activity.  We take several cuts of workmen

papering the walls, tacking down carpet, putting in new

light fixtures, painting signs, all under the supervision of

Niles.  From now on, we will refer to the pool hall as the

store.

Back in the office, Kid Twist is "interviewing" one by one,

a group of con men lined up outside the office door.  A

gray-haired old buzzard, Curly Jackson, approaches the table

which is serving Twist as a desk.  Curly is practically in

rags and has several days growth on his face.  He wears a

little beret which he takes off to address Twist.

Twist is taken with the man, despite his appearance.

THE CARD GAME AGAIN

Gondorff and Lonnegan have most of the chips.  Lonnegan is

slightly ahead.  Gondorff has made a token attempt to wear

the provided tie, having tied it in a knot around his neck,

but not having bothered to put it under his collar.  He has

a shot glass and a bottle next to him, from which he has

been drinking heavily.  He and Lonnegan are the only ones

left in this hand.

Lonnegan lays down his hand, a solid two pair.  Gondoroff

turns out three tens.  Lonnegan is beat.

Lonnegan burns, and the "boys" have no comment.

INT. THE STORE - NIGHT

The work is still progressing.  We see two workmen installing

a ticket tape machine in a secluded area of the store.

We go to Kid Twist, still conducting interviews in the

office.  A young, rather sullen man, Buck Duff, steps to the

table.

Duff stands there a second and then slouches away from the

table.  He stops however, by the door.  The next man up is

the Eirie Kid.  Twist knows he's seen him somewhere before.

Twist waits for more, but it's not coming.

Eirie nods a reluctant "yes."

Eirie is so happy, he can barely blurt out a thank you.

Buck Duff, enraged that Twist would hire a total amateur,

turns in disgust and strides vengefully out of the store.

THE CARD GAME AGAIN

The room is dense with smoke now, and the players are

feeling the heat.  Gondorff has his white shirt open,

revealing a stained T-shirt underneath.  The bottle next to

him is almost empty.  He sneezes and wipes his nose with the

tie Lonnegan gave him.

The chips are now about equally divided between Gondorff and

Lonnegan.  The others are losing badly.

Jameson lays down two pair.  Gondorff has a flush.  Gondorff

rakes in the chips, which now put him ahead of Lonnegan.

Gondorff grabs the whiskey bottle next to him, breaks it

against the table and waves the jagged end in Lonnegan's face.

Jameson and the conductor step in between.

Lonnegan storms out of the room, followed by Floyd and

Bodyguard.

INT. SMOKING ROOM

We pick up Lonnegan coming down the passageway to enter the

smoking room.

INT. THE POKER ROOM AGAIN - NIGHT

A pair of hands shuffling.  We pull back to reveal that

they're Gondorff's.  He passes the deck to Lonnegan to be

cut and turns to pen a new whiskey bottle.  Lonnegan takes

the deck and in one lightning motion substitutes a new deck,

while making it look like he's cutting the old one.

Gondorff picks up the deck and begins to deal.  As the hand

is picked up, we see that Gondorff has four threes, Lonnegan

four nines, and everybody else has nothing.

Gondorff looks at Lonnegan very carefully for a second.

Lonnegan meets his stare.

The spectators shift a little.  It's the biggest bet of the

night.

Lonnegan fingers his remaining chips.  He knows he's won,

but he wants to bleed it for every bit of suspense.

Lonnegan pushes in the rest of his chips.  Gondorff, who is

only required to match Lonnegan's total, throws in all his

too.  It's a showdown.

Lonnegan puts down his four nines.  Gondorff just stares at

them a second, lets out a deep sigh and lays down four jacks.

Lonnegan is aghast.  This just can't be.  He glances at

Floyd, who can do nothing but sit there with his mouth open.

The other players look at each other in disgust, and reach

for their wallets, all of which are well stocked.

Lonnegan, with a stare that could kill, reaches for his

wallet.  Suddenly the stare goes soft.  He tries a few more

pockets.  No soap.

Lonnegan, having had all he can take, goes for Gondorff, but

is restrained by the conductor.

Gondorff stalks out of the room.  We pick him up coming down

the passageway to his compartment.

INT. GONDORFF'S COMPARTMENT

The drunkenness has vanished.  We follow him into his cabin,

where Hooker is waiting anxiously.

Gondorff tosses his winnings on the table.

INT. LONNEGAN'S CABIN - NIGHT

Lonnegan sits in a chair smoking, obviously still upset.

Floyd paces in front of him.

There's a knock at the door.  Floyd goes and opens it.  It's

Hooker.

Floyd motions him in without a word.

Lonnegan says nothing.  He doesn't like smart asses.  He

looks Hooker over a second, as if considering whether to

have him wasted or not.

Lonnegan just holds the wallet.  He can't believe it.

Lonnegan looks at Hooker long and hard, as if the intensity

of his gaze could separate truth from fiction.  Lonnegan

hadn't expected this, but now that it's here, it better be

on the level.  The silence is suddenly broken by the noise

of the train braking into the station.

Hooker hesitates, not sure whether to accept or not.

INT. LONNEGAN'S CAR - NIGHT

Driving through the city, the driver and Floyd in front,

Hooker and Lonnegan in back.

Hooker glances out the window from time to time, just to

make sure they're really going to his place.

Lonnegan is listening, but you'd never know it.

We go to Lonnegan.  He's still not talking, but that last

phrase has registered.

EXT. HOOKER'S PLACE

The car pulls up in front of Hooker's place.

Hooker nods and walks up the steps to his apartment building.

Lonnegan's car speeds away from the curb and on out of sight.

Hooker breathes a sigh of relief.  He's passed his first

test; or has he?  We follow him up the stairs to his room.

INT. HOOKER'S APARTMENT

He's just about to unlock the door, when he notices the

little piece of paper he left in the door is on the floor.

Without the slightest hesitation, Hooker leaps over the

bannister and races back down the stairs.  Two gunmen, Riley

and Cole, burst out of his room and fire at him over the

railing, but he's already too far down.  Riley and Cole give

chase.

THE FRONT OF THE BUILDING

Riley and Cole barrel out of the building and onto the

sidewalk.  There is an empty bus stopped at a light, but

they find no sign of Hooker.  As the light changes, we cut

to the other side of the bus, where we see Hooker crouched

on the rear wheel housing, hanging on to a vent.  He's a

little shaken, but most of all, he's still alive.  We hold

on him, as the bus moves off.

INT. THE STORE - NIGHT

Hooker and Gondorff are sitting alone in the back office

while the work goes on outside.  Their conversation continues.

Gondorff has his doubts, but lets them ride.

OTHER PARTS OF THE STORE

We concentrate on some of the fine details, i.e. Garfield

explaining how the ticker will read out to Singleton and

Billie; Curly Jackson showing a younger con man how to mark

the odds board properly.

We concentrate on Niles, who's making up the "boodles" or

fake bankrollls.  He puts a real $100 bill on the bottom,

then two inches of cut green paper on top, and then another

$100 bill on top of that, so that it looks like he has a

whole stack of $100 bills.  The bundle is then bound with a

sealed label, like those used in banks, that says $10,000.

We see that he has already made several of these bundles.

INT. THE STORE

Twist in the middle of the room giving a route to the Eirie

Kid.  He shows him where to get his drink at the bar, where

to sit and finally how to leap up and throw his racing form

down in disgust.

HOOKER AND GONDORFF IN THE STORE OFFICE AGAIN

They both look tired.

FADE IN:

THE TALE

FADE IN:

WE OPEN ON A WIDE SHOT OF THE ALLEY OUTSIDE THE STORE

At first it appears to be deserted, but we move to reveal a

figure in an upper window of the apartment building which

forms one side of the alley.  It's Kid Twist.  His eyes roam

the street, for what, we do not yet know.

INT. AN OLD DRUGSTORE ACROSS FROM THE ALLEY - DAY

Probably prosperous at one time, it has since declined, its

large fountain and eating area bow host to two bums and

Hooker, who sits alone in a rear booth near the telephone.

Dressed in a tuxedo, he nurses a cup of coffee, and anxiously

alternates his glances between the clock and the empty

street outside.  It's 12:52.

INT. THE STORE - DAY

The place is full of people, although we avoid long shot so

as not to give away the room as a whole yet.  Instead, we

concentrate on the tense, waiting faces of some of the more

familiar people:

Gondorff and Niles in tuxedos behind a barred cashier's area.

Gondorff mutilates a piece of gum in his mouth.  Niles just

stares out into space cracking his knuckles.

The boardmarker walking nervously back and forth in front of

his odds board, checking every letter and number.  He stops

to cross a T on one of the horses' names.  It was already

crossed, but he does it again anyway.

Billie and Singleton, in an area hidden from the rest of the

room, watching the print-out on the ticker machine.  The

clicking of the ticker is the only sound we hear in the store.

Curly Jackson in front of a mirror, pasting a fake Van Dyke

on his chin to go with his tweed suit and monocle.

A couple of Billie's girls adjusting their waitress outfits

and primping their hair.  Each has a tray full of drinks

beside her.

The Eirie Kid silently retracing his "route" to make sure he

has it down.

Despite the crowd, there is no talking and little movement,

save for the constant swirling of smoke from several cigars

and cigarettes.  The group is like a theatre company waiting

to go on opening night.

THE DRUGSTORE AGAIN

It's 12:56 and Hooker is worried.  He looks up to see two

large men, obviously racket goons, come in the front door,

and take a seat facing him in the next booth.  They stare at

him impassively, waving the waitress away when she comes to

take their order.  Hooker knows they're Lonnegan's men, but

is somewhat unsettled by the fact that Lonnegan is not with

them.  Suddenly, a voice.

Hooker turns around to find that Lonnegan is seated in the

booth directly behind him.  His bodyguard is in the one

behind that.

Lonnegan says nothing.  He's not sure he likes a man who's

stupid enough to bet his last dollar on a horse race.

EXT. STREET

Hooker hustles out across the street and into the alley.

INT. DRUGSTORE

Lonnegan watches him through the window and then settles

back in his seat to wait for the phone.

OUTSIDE STORE

As Hooker descends the stairwell into the store, he gives

Kid Twist the office.  Twist turns away from the window and

looks at his watch.  12:58.

DRUGSTORE

Lonnegan waiting by the phone, idly pinging a knife on the

salt shaker.  It's 1:40.  A man enters the store and walks

over to use the phone.

The man looks at Lonnegan a second, and then at his four

goons.  He decides maybe he'll make the call later.

INT. THE STORE

Kid Twist again.  Billie enters the room with a piece of

paper.  Kid Twist looks at it a second and then picks up the

pohne and begins to dial.

INT. DRUGSTORE

Lonnegan again.  He's getting impatient now and lights a

cigarette, and then the phone rings.  He answers it quickly

and we hear:

The receiver clicks down at the other end.  Lonnegan hangs

up and goes out the door, followed by his entourage.

EXT. STREET

We follow him across the street and into the alley, where he

signals one of the bodyguards to check the place out.  Kid

Twist pushes a button on his window sill, and a buzzer goes

off inside the store.  The previously inert figures there

spring to life.

Lonnegan's bodyguard descends the stairwell and knocks at

the door, where he is greeted by Hooker in the capacity of

host.  He looks the place over and motions an okay to

Lonnegan.

INT. THE STORE

As Lonnegan enters, we see the room for the first time in

its entirety.  Overnight it has been transformed into a

swank private club, with bar, cigarette girls, upholstered

furniture and chandeliers.

Everywhere there is activity.  A bank of telephones buzzes

incessantly.  Sheet writers scurry from phone to phone,

taking bets of tremendous size from prominent people.

We reveal that the phones are controlled by a master switch,

which one of the recruited con men operates from behind a

partition.

The boardmaker, wearing headphones suspended from a sliding

wire, hurriedly chalks up races and odds on a huge blackboard.

From the loudspeakers we hear the words "last flash." The

odds on Bluenote settle down to 8 to 1.

Lonnegan makes his way through the throng toward the betting

line.  His bodyguards fan out to various positions in the

room.  The betting crowd itself (known as the "boost")

consists of close to twenty people, none of whom, of course

are what they're pretending to be.  There are brokers with

pasty faces, sportsmen, tanned and casual, and financiers

with goatees and highly tailored clothes.  Large amounts of

money are changing hands at the betting window.  Boodles are

in sight everywhere.

Lonnegan slips into the betting line, feeling somewhat

estranged from the general merriment around him.  There are

two men in line ahead of him.  The first, Curly Jackson,

slaps down several bundles of cash in front of Niles, who's

the cashier, and places a $20,000 bet on War Eagle.  Gondorff

appears at the cashier's window and catches sight of Lonnegan.

The man in front of Lonnegan puts $5,000 on Dancing Cloud.

He makes the bet on credit.  Lonnegan steps to the window.

Bluenote's race is now up on the board.  The race caller

comes on the loudspeaker.

We see that the caller is Singleton, and that he's calling

the race from a concealed booth next to the cashier's cage.

Lonnegan goes to the bar, orders a drink, and settles down

at one of the tables.  It happens to be the one the Eirie

Kid is at.  Gondorff and Niles watch it from the cashier's

cage.

Eirie tries to ignore Lonnegan at first, but realizes he

better make some conversation.

Eirie excuses himself and heads for the bar.

The heretofore chaotic energy of the parlor is now focused

on the race.  Several of the patrons begin to yell for their

horses.  Lonnegan remains seated.  He seems bored with it

all.  Hooker comes over to clear some empty glasses from his

table.

Lonnegan perks up just a little.  Bluenote, at least, has

moved up.  The rest of the people in the place are really

rooting now.  Few of them remain seated.

Hooker arrives at the bar, with the glasses he cleared from

Lonnegan's table.  Eirie is already there, fortifying

himself with a scotch.

Eirie nods, somewhat unconvinced, and heads bak to the table.

Lonnegan is getting more intent now.

The place is going crazy.  Even Singleton is standing up to

get the necessary excitement in his voice.

Most of the patrons collapse into their chairs like spent

lovers.  Eirie slams his racing form to the floor.  Nobody

had Bluenote.

Eirie doesn't reply.  He can't believe Bluenote won.

Lonnegan looks to Hooker.  Hooker gives him a wink.  For

the first time, Lonnegan permits a smile.

LONNEGAN AT THE CASHIER'S WINDOW

Niles is counting out $16,000 to him (all of which Gondorff

won the night before).  Gondorff looks somewhat perturbed.

Lonnegan picks up the money and tauntingly waves it at him.

Hooker hesitates a second.

Gondorff gives Hooker a hard shove in the back with his

foot, sending him into a table and sprawling to the floor.

Hooker, pretending to be humiliated, gets to his feet and

escorts Lonnegan to the door.  Lonnegan stops, gives Gondorff

a derisive smile, and walks out.  Once he's gone, the

general clatter and hubbub in the room cease, like it had

been turned off by a faucet.  Most of the boost sit down and

relax.  Curly Jackson rips off his Van Dyke.  It's been

itching him.

INT. COMB'S OFFICE AT THE CLEARINGHOUSE - DAY

Combs sits passively on the edge of his desk glancing across

the room every now and then at Riley, who is slumped uneasily

in a folding chair, looking like a defendant at the

Inquisition.  Both remain silent, like two men in a waiting

room.  Suddenly, what they've been waiting for arrives.

Lonnegan comes into the office, flanked by his bodyguards.

Skipping the usual pleasantries, he walks right over to Riley.

Riley gets up and drags himself out the door like a whipped

dog.

Combs gives up.  The second time's the charm.

Combs keeps his mouth shut.  There's no way to talk to

Lonnegan when  he's like this.

INT. LONNEGAN'S HOTEL - DAY

The finest the period had to offer.  We pick up Hooker

coming down the hall to Lonnegan's suite.  He is admitted by

the Bodyguard.  Lonnegan, wearing a smoking jacket, is

seated at a table counting a pile of money.  There are two

other assistants standing behind him.  They don't look

friendly.

Lonnegan is amazed.  He sits back a second, then comes

forward again and pushes a pile of bills over to Hooker.

Hooker smiles and begins to count the money.

Hooker's in a jam and he knows it.

Hooker says nothing for a minute, and then reluctantly nods

his head.

EXT. LONNEGAN'S HOTEL - DAY

We pick up Hooker coming out of the hotel and going off down

the street.  As he does so, we pull back all the way across

the street and through the interior of a parked car to

reveal the silhouette of a man seated at the wheel.  We move

to his right hand, which rests on the steering column.  It's

covered by a black glove and the middle finger is missing.

His trigger finger, however, taps lightly on the wheel.

INT. AN INDOOR TELEPHONE BOOTH - DAY

One of the old, wooden kind -- accordian doors with glass

panes in the upper half.  Hooker dials rapidly.

Hooker blows a mock kiss through the phone and hangs up.  He

turns to leave the booth, when suddenly he sees something

that stops him cold.  There looking through the glass is the

smirking face of Detective Synder.  Hooker is immobilized.

Snyder puts his hand inside his coat and slowly draws out

his gun.  He points it right at Hooker's face and then

violently smashes all the glass in the upper half of the

door with the barrel.  Fragments of glass spray into the

booth, a couple of which imbed themselves in Hooker's cheek.

Hooker quickly whips open the door, trapping Snyder's hand

in the accordian and jarring loose his gun.  Hooker sprints

out of the booth as Snyder scrambles for his pistol and

gives pursuit.

EXT. ALLEYS AND SIDESTREETS - NIGHT - THE TWO MEN

We follow the two men up alleys and sidestreets as they race

through the dregs of the city, two panting shadows moving

through places that only get light at night.  The wind blows

drops of blood off Hooker's cheek as he runs.  Snyder still

has his gun, but would rather inflict pain than death.

CONDEMNED BUILDING

Hooker makes for a condemned building and scrambles up the

stairs, steps giving way under him as he goes.

INT. BUILDING

On the fourth floor, he ducks into a room and quickly locks

the door.

We pan the room to reveal that the whole back side of the

building is gone.  Hooker runs toward the ledge and leaps

through the air, landing on the fire escape of an adjacent

building, some 15 feet away.  He kicks in a window and goes

off down the hall.  We cut back to

Snyder furiously kicking in the locked door.  He finally

crashes through, only to find an empty room and a beautiful

panorama of the city and its nearest Hooverville.

LONG SHOT - HOOKER

Winding his way through the slum area of town, dashing along

backstreets, over fences and through vacant lots, making

good his escape.  From our angle, he looks like a rat in a

maze.

INT. GONDORFF'S ROOM AT THE CAROUSEL BUILDING - DAY

Hooker sits sullenly at the table.  Billie stands over him

putting some ointment on his face to close the cuts.

Gondorff looks on.  Their discussion continues.

Hooker doesn't reply.  He knows Gondorff's on to him.

FADE IN:

THE WIRE

FADE IN:

INT. A SLEEPY DINER - LATE AFTERNOON

Located across the street from Hooker's apartment building.

Hooker sits down alone in a booth, with a plate of ham and

eggs he's hardly touched.

The two cuts on his face have pretty much stopped bleeding.

A big fan above the counter area drones away lethargically,

it's air stream insufficient to either cool the place or

drive out the smell of onions and grease.

A waitress, Loretta, emerges from the kitchen and ambles

slowly over to Hooker's table.  Slim and raven-haired, she

manifests an indifference bred from years spent delivering

things to people who are rarely grateful for what she brings.

Only a light scar on her left cheek hints at another side.

Hooker looks for some sign that she's putting him on.  He

doesn't get it.  He takes out some money, drops it on the

table and walks out.

EXT. A WESTERN UNION OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

A truck with the words CLAYTON BROS., CUSTOM PAINTING AND

DECORATING stenciled on the side, is parked out front.  Two

men, wearing overalls and painter's caps, walk into the

office to the reception counter, we see that they are Twist

and Singleton.

EXT. THE SLEEZY DINER - LATE AFTERNOON

Hooker is standing on the curb outside the diner, obviously

waiting for somebody.  Lonnegan's car pulls up and Hooker

hops in the back.

Lonnegan laughs.

INT. THE WESTERN UNION OFFICE AGAIN - LATE AFTERNOON

Mr. Harmon is looking over the authorization papers that

Twist and Singleton have given him.  He can't find anything

wrong with it.

Harmon looks around, hoping it's not true.

Harmon is resigned.  Twist and Singleton pick up their gear

and march into the office.  Once inside, we notice that the

office has an exit door which opens to an outside alley.

Twist immediately removes his overalls, revealing the suit

and tie he's wearing underneath.  He takes out a picture of

himself, a woman and three small children, and puts it on

Harmon's desk, replacing a similiar picture of Harmon's

family.  Singleton, meanwhile, has spread a few tarps and

begins to paint the walls.

EXT. THE WESTERN UNION OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Lonnegan's car pulls up and stops across the street.

We follow Hooker and Lonnegan across the street to the side

entrance which opens into:

INT. HARMON'S OFFICE

Hooker knocks and Twist, of course, answers.

Twist walks over to the intercom on his desk.  He leaves the

door open so that Lonnegan can get a good look at the

office, Twist's picture in it, the painter, etc... Lonnegan's

not missing any of it.

INT. FRONT OFFICE

Harmon's secretary at the other end of the intercom.  Mr.

Harmon is with her.  They look at each other a second and

Harmon decides he better see what's happening in his office.

He opens the door to find it empty except for a pile of

painting equipment and one haphazardly painted wall.

INT. A DILAPIDATED CHINESE RESTAURANT - EVENING

Dark and somewhat foreboding, its peeling dragons and shoddy

lanterns compete for space with the many slot machines and

arcade games that line the walls.  Hooker, Lonnegan and

Twist sit at one of the more secluded tables.  They are not

eating.

Twist hesitates.

Twist says nothing for a minute, then:

Hooker and Lonnegan smile at each other like life-long

friends.  They get up to leave, and we frame the shot with a

coffee cup large in the foreground.  As they go out the

door, a black-gloved hand with four fingers enters the frame

and puts a nickel down next to the cup.

FADE IN:

THE SHUT-OUT

FADE IN:

INT. A DOWNTOWN DINETTE - MORNING

Snyder finishes a donut and a cup of coffee, puts down a

dime for the lot and exits.  We follow him down the street:

EXT. STREET

To a corner newsstand, where he stops to buy a morning paper.

As he peruses it, he's approached by two large, clean-cut

men in white skimmers.

The two men show him to a waiting car.

INT. AN ABANDONED WAREHOUSE - DAY

Snyder stands in the middle of a dusty old machine room,

surrounded by four or five Federal Agents.  Visible around

the room are several folding cots and portable lockers.  The

agents have obviously been quartered here temporarily.  They

all wear white skimmers, save for one, a portly man, Captain

Polk, who paces the room smoking.  There is something long-

suffering about him, as if he wondered how he ever got in a

service that thought white skimmers were classy.

Snyder doesn't answer.

INT. DRUGSTORE - DAY

Lonnegan sits by the phone, watching the clock and sipping a

cup of coffee.

INT. THE STORE - DAY

Specifically, the small room from which Singleton does his

race broadcasts.  Singleton, himself, is hunched over the

ticker machine, reading the print-out.  Billie sits at the

microphone table with a pencil and pad, ready to write.

Gondorff appears at the doorway.

Billie prepares to write on her pad.

Billie crumples up the piece of paper she's been writing on

and chucks it in a wastecan.

Gondorff leaves the room, as Singleton turns back to his

vigil at the ticker.

THE FLOOR AREA OF THE STORE

Everyone is in his place as before.  Today, however, Curly

Jackson is playing the part of the aging sport.

Well scrubbed and clean shaven, he cuts a dashing figure in

his blue blazer and white pants.  We go to Gondorff in the

cashier's cage.  He's talking to Niles, who's busy handing

out fake bankrolls to members of the boost.

Niles nods.

INT. DRUGSTORE - DAY

Lonnegan is still waiting.  He takes the 20 grand out of his

coat pocket and thumbs through it, just to make sure it's

all there.

INT. THE STORE - DAY

Singleton and Billie at the ticker again.  Billie looks a

little sleepy.  Singleton is obviously involved with the

progress of a race.

Billie snaps to and prepares to write as Singleton reads.

Billie and Singleton hustle out of the room.

EXT. ALLEY

We follow Billie through the store and across the alley to

the building from which Twist keeps his lookout.

INT. THE STORE

Gondorff, holding the ticker sheet Singleton has given him,

emerges from the office and starts giving instructions to

the boost.

INT. TWIST'S ROOM - DAY

Billie enters and gives Twist the piece of paper she wrote

the race results on.  He picks up the phone and starts to

dial.

INT. DRUGSTORE - DAY

The phone rings and Lonnegan answers it.

Lonnegan smiles and hangs up the phone.

INT. THE STORE - DAY

Lonnegan's in line at the betting window.  There are four

people in front of him this time, and they are moving rather

slowly.  The "Last Flash" call is heard on the speakers.

The man at the head of the line turns around and gives

Lonnegan a chilling look, as if he were beneath contempt.

He puts down $25,000 on Grand Theft.  The next man in line

plunges down $30,000 on Wrecking Crew.

Just as Lonnegan is about to step to the window, Gondorff

gives a quick signal to Singleton.  The speakers come on.

He points to a sign above the window, which says exactly

that.  Lonnegan grabs up his money in disgust.

Lonnegan wanders over to the bar in a funk.

The assembled patrons are once again thoroughly involved in

the race.  Eirie comes up to Lonnegan at the bar.

Lonnegan nods and wanders away.  Hooker comes over to him.

INT. STORE OFFICE

Gondorff and Niles, back in the office.

THE FLOOR

Eirie explodes in a joyous frenzy.  He grabs Lonnegan by the

shoulders and shakes him.

Yeh, Lonnegan heard that.  Lonnegan shakes loose, grabs his

coat and heads for the door.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

He finds Hooker waiting for him outside.

Lonnegan storms across the street to his waiting car and

drives off.  Hooker relaxes into a smile.  He's already

figured something out.

INT. SLEEZY DINER ACROSS FROM HOOKER'S APT. BLDG. - EVENING

Hooker sits at the counter finishing a plate of meat loaf.

Loretta is down at the cash register, leaning on the counter,

looking idly out into space.  Hooker glances over at her

every once in a while to see if she might be interested in

striking up a little conversation.  She's not.  He finishes

his meal and comes down to the register to pay his bill.

Hooker gives her a dollar.  She goes to the register for

change.

Hooker figures that's enough of that.  He pockets his change

and starts out the door, when suddenly he stops short.

EXT. STREET

Across the street in a doorway is the silhouette of a man.

It's Cole.  He's pretending not to look at the diner, but

Hooker isn't fooled.

INT. DINER

He goes back to Loretta at the register.

Cracks of concern begin to appear in Loretta's marble.

Loretta just looks at him a second.  Realizing that this is

no joke, she turns and walks slowly but steadily to the

bathroom.  Hooker waits until she's out of sight.

EXT. STREET

Hooker goes to the front door and steps outside.  Cole looks

up at the sound of the door.  Hooker makes a big show of

spotting him, and runs back into the diner.  Cole, his cover

blown, draws his gun and races across the street in pursuit.

Arriving just in time to see --

INT. DINER

Hooker go into the bathroom, he charges in after him, only

to find the place empty.  He goes quickly from stall to

stall, on the chance that Hooker might be hiding in one of

them.

He comes to one that's closed, and seeing a pair of woman's

legs under the door, rejects that, and moves on to the next

one.

We cut inside the stall to reveal Loretta sitting on the

toilet with her skirt hiked up.  Right behind her, crouched

on the back of the seat, is Hooker.

Cole has finished his rapid inspection now, and having found

nothing, looks around for Hooker's probable escape route.

He sees the open window and climbs out to find himself in a

small air shaft, from which he knows Hooker could not escape.

Hooker, seizing the time, bursts out of the stall and runs

back out through the diner.  Cole sees him, but too late to

get off a shot.  He climbs back in the window and gives chase.

EXT. STREET

We pick up Hooker barreling down the street with Cole a

hundred yards or so behind.  Hooker makes a sharp cut into

an alley, and we see immediately that it's a hopeless dead

end.  Inexplicably, he makes no attempt to run back out.

Cole draws up and cuts into the alley, anticipating the kill

which should be easy now.  He prepares to sight down his

victim, when suddenly he realizes there is no victim in

sight.  Hooker, miraculously, has vanished.  Cole scans the

alley frantically for some trace of him.  There are no

windows or doors at the street level.  Not even a drain pipe.

Just brick wall.  It's impossible.  Hooker has disappeared

into thin air.

Cole slams his gun into his shoulder holster with a curse,

and starts back out of the alley, when all of a sudden he

stops in utter terror.  His mouth drops open and he chokes

out the words:

Before anything else can come out, two bullets rip into his

chest.  He falls to the concrete, coming to rest on a

manhole cover, which we notice is slightly ajar.  We:

THE SEWER PIPES

Beneath the manhole.  We see Hooker making his way through

the slop, having gained another reprieve, but unaware that

with two down, there is still one to go.

INT. HOOKER'S APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING

Hooker comes in the front entrance and goes to the elevator,

one of the old-fashioned kind with the iron grid on the

inside.  He's still a little rattled and waiting for the

elevator is making him restless.  It finally arrives, and he

steps inside, closing the grid behind him.  As he starts to

push the button for his floor, he realizes for the first

time that he's not alone.  He looks to the corner to find

Snyder, holding a gun on him.  This time there's not much

doubt that he'll use it if necessary.

INT. THE ABANDONED WAREHOUSE - EVENING

Snyder brings Hooker into the crate room where Capt. Polk

and the other Agents are waiting.  Polk, as usual, has his

coat off, revealing his shoulder holster.

Hooker remains standing.

Capt. Polk almost laughs, but he checks it.

Hooker says nothing, but it's not from defiance now.  He's

beginning to get the picture.

Hooker wants to come back with something, but can't find it.

Hooker's thoroughly whipped.  He sits down for the first time.

INT. GONDORFF'S ROOM - NIGHT

Gondorff and Hooker are playing gin rummy and drinking.

Gondorff makes little comments as he plays, but Hooker is

quiet and withdrawn.  The carousel is not in operation and a

heavy silence hangs over the place.

Hooker smiles feebly.

Billie appears at the door.

Gondorff takes out a set of keys and tosses them to her.

She leaves to go start the merry-go-round.  Gondorff settles

back into the game.

Gondorff chucks his cards on the table.  He's through for

the night.

That's good enough.  Hooker gets up to leave.

Hooker just nods and walks out the door.

INT. CAROUSEL

We follow him past the Carousel which is now full of giggling

prostitutes in various stages of undress.  Their childish

frolicking is charming from a group usually so jaded, but

it's lost on Hooker tonight.

EXT. A CITY STREET - NIGHT

It's late now and the street is deserted save for an

occasional derelict or streetwalker on her way home from a

night's work.  We pick up Hooker coming down the street

toward his apartment building.  He walks slowly, almost

reluctantly, as if he didn't care whether he ever got there

or not.

As he nears his building, he notices Loretta coming out of

the diner across the street.  He stops and watches as she

looks up and disappears into an adjacent building that

advertises rooms for rent.  After a few seconds, we see a

light come on in one of its second story windows.

Hooker just stands there a second, debating with himself,

trying to figure out a reason for doing what he's going to

do anyway.  We follow him across the street to Loretta's

building and:

INT. LORRETA'S

He goes up the stairs to the room where the light came on.

He passes a couple of derelicts on the way.  He knocks twice

and Loretta answers in her bathrobe.  She is more than a

little startled to see him.

Loretta notices an old busybody peeping out at them from her

room across the hall.

Mrs. Hillard quickly closes her door.

Loretta looks at him carefully.  She knows it's not a line.

The two just stand there in silence a second.  There's

nothing more to say.  She stands back and lets him in.

INT. GONDORFF'S ROOM - NIGHT

A record spinning lazily on an old phonograph.  We hear

Robert Johnson's "Come On In My Kitchen." Gondorff is

sitting up in bed, with his hat on, lost in thought.  Billie

is curled up asleep next to him.  There's a packed suitcase

next to the bed.  Billie wakes up and turns over a second.

Gondorff nods his agreement like a zombie and goes right on

thinking.

LORRETA'S ROOM

Hooker and Loretta are asleep against each other, their

bodies illuminated every few seconds by the light from a

neon sign across the street.  We dolly to the window and

move in on another window in the building next door.  There's

no light on in it, but we can discern the basic outline of a

face behind the curtains, which are slightly parted to

afford a view of Hooker's room by a black-gloved hand.

Music ends.

FADE IN:

THE STING

FADE IN:

We open on Hooker in bed, the morning sun streaming in on

his face.  He awakens slowly, looks at the ceiling for a

second and, remembering last night, turns to the side to

find that Loretta is no longer there.  Still drowsy, he gets

out of bed and looks around the room for a note or some

evidence of her continued presence.  He opens an empty

closet, then opens empty drawers.  Finding nothing, he

suddenly hits on another possibility, and looks in his

wallet.  The money is still there.  Almost disappointed, he

slumps down in a chair, as the harsh reality of what will

happen this day floods back in on him.  Music begins and we:

INT. AN UNKNOWN LOCATION - DAY

We see the black-gloved hand opening a small wooden box.

Wrapped inside is a shiny black revolver, at this point in

two pieces.  The hand reaches in and takes them out.

INT. THE SLEEZY DINER - DAY

Hooker is poking at a plate of waffles and sausage.  The

waitress on duty is not Loretta and Hooker has noticed.

INT. GONDORFF'S ROOM - DAY

Gondorff is standing in front of the bathroom mirror,

putting on his tuxedo.  He goes to his dresser, pulls out a

very small gun and tucks it in his cummerbund.

THE GUNNMAN'S ROOM AGAIN

The hand swirls a pipe cleaner inside the barrel of the

revolver and picks some lint out of the chamber.  He then

screws the barrel onto the body.  This is all seen in closeup.

HOOKER'S ROOM AGAIN

Hooker now has his tuxedo on.  He takes two small rubber

bladders out of a drawer and puts them in his pocket.

INT. LONNEGAN'S SUITE - DAY

Lonnegan paces nervously around the room, looking at the

clock.  Obviously waiting for something, he's getting

extremely impatient.

THE GUNNMAN'S ROOM AGAIN

We watch the hand carefully loading bullets into the chamber

of the revolver.

INT. THE CAROUSEL BUILDING - DAY

Gondorff emerges from his room carrying his suitcase.  He

stops and looks up at the mezzanine where Billie is standing.

They smile sadly at each other and give a simple wave,

having done this too many times to get sentimental about it

now.  Gondorff walks out of the building.

HOOKER'S ROOM AGAIN

Hooker is busily stuffing all his possessions in a paper

bag, lumping clothes with food, records and toilet articles.

LONNEGAN'S SUITE AGAIN

Lonnegan goes to the door to admit Floyd and two assistants,

one of whom carries a large brief case.  Lonnegan takes the

brief case to a table and opens it.  Inside is a half

million dollars in cash.

INT. THE GUNNMAN'S ROOM AGAIN

We see the hand putting a silencer on the revolver.  The

gunman puts the revolver up to his eye to check the alignment

and for the first time we see the face that goes with the

hand.  It is fully as menacing as we had imagined: Broad,

flat nose, thick cracked lips, narrow eyes and cauliflower

ears.

HOOKER'S ROOM AGAIN

Hooker is on the phone now.

INT. WAREHOUSE

We see that he's talking to Captain Polk.  Snyder listens

also.

HOOKER'S ROOM

Hooker finishes the conversation, hangs up and goes to take

one last look at himself in the mirror.  Finding everything

in order, he grabs up his sack of possessions and leaves the

room.

EXT. HOOKER'S APARTMENT

We pick him up emerging from the building, and follow him

around the corner to a secluded alley which he generally

takes on his way to the store.  As he walks along, he

notices Loretta coming toward him from the other end.  She's

wearing a coat, obviously on her way somewhere.  As she

comes closer, we move to reveal the gunman appearing suddenly

in the alley behind and to the right of Hooker.

EXT. ALLEYWAY

The gunman quickly takes out his revolver, braces it in the

crook of his hand, and takes careful aim.  Loretta sees him.

The gunman fires.  Loretta falls dead on the asphalt.

Hooker spins around in confusion.  The gunman moves quickly

toward him.  Hooker starts to back up but the gunman stops

when he gets to Loretta.  He kicks her over to reveal a gun

under her body.

Hooker is stunned.  He can't believe it.

Hooker wants to stay and try to figure it all out, but the

gunman drags him away.

INT. THE ABANDONED WAREHOUSE - DAY

Polk, Snyder and several federal agents are busy putting on

their shoulder holsters, and checking their weapons.

Snyder nods.

EXT. LONNEGAN'S HOTEL - DAY

Lonnegan, carrying the brief case personally, is seen

getting into his limousine.  Four assistants get in with him.

INT. THE STORE - DAY

Gondorff enters the store carrying his suitcase.  Several of

the boost are already there.  Gondorff clasps his hands to

generate a little enthusiasm.  He's obviously up for this one.

INT. TAXI CAB - DAY

Hooker sits in the back seat with the gunman right next to

him.  He's still very uneasy with this man.

We go to Hooker.  No, he doesn't.

EXT. THE ABANDONED WAREHOUSE - DAY

We pick up Polk, Snyder and the other federal agents coming

out of the warehouse in their white skimmers, and piling

into cars.

THE STORE AGAIN

Niles is busily spreading "boodles" all over the cashier's

area.  Singleton checks his microphone.  It works fine.  He

checks it again.

LONNEGAN IN HIS LIMOUSINE

He holds the brief case in his lap, his fingers tapping

lightly on it.

THE STORE AGAIN

Hooker and the gunman enter and go over to Gondorff, who

breaks into a wide smile.  Hooker returns it halfheartedly,

still ill at ease about what has happened.

THE F.B.I. CARS ON THEIR WAY

There are four or five driving in a column.  Snyder and Polk

ride together in the back of the lead car.

EXT. THE DRUGSTORE - DAY

Lonnegan's limousine pulls up outside, and the bodyguards

pile out.

THE STORE AGAIN

Gondorff, Hooker and the others waiting, the tension

expressed in their faces.

INT. THE DRUGSTORE - DAY

Lonnegan sits tensely in the usual booth.  He keeps both

hands firmly planted on the brief case.  The phone rings and

Lonnegan goes to it.  Music ends.

Lonnegan hangs up with the look of the financial killer.

Eight to one odds is more than even he could have hoped for.

EXT. STREET

We follow Lonnegan across the street and into the store.

The bodyguards remain outside.

The store is buzzing with activity.  Money and booze are

everywhere.  The sheet writer and the boardmarker can hardly

keep up with the action.  Lonnegan walks quickly to the

betting line and finds to his relief that there's only one

man ahead of him.  The man puts $25,000 on King's Image.

Lonnegan steps to the window, swings up the brief case, and

opens it for Niles to see.

Niles is struck dumb.  He's never seen that much money before.

Niles goes and returns with Gondorff.

Gondorff looks at the money a second and then looks up at

Lonnegan like he's gotta be crazy.

Gondorff looks at Lonnegan long and hard.

The words "Last Flash" are heard on the speaker.  Gondorff

looks at Lonnegan with utter contempt.  He turns to Niles.

Niles hurriedly writes out a slip for 500,000 dollars.

Lonnegan, allowing himself a sly smile, picks it up and

retires to a nearby table.  He flashes a little okay sign to

Hooker who acknowledges it with a nod.

Lonnegan takes a deep breath and leans forward in his chair,

the larceny boiling in his veins.  Hooker looks to Gondorff.

Gondorff gives him the "office." Hooker has to smile.

Unexpectedly, Kid Twist bursts in through the entrance.

Barely able to control his enthusiasm, he hurries over to

Lonnegan's table and sits down next to him.

Lonnegan looks like he's just been stabbed.  He vaults over

the table to the teller's window and grabs Niles.

Lonnegan begins to shake him violently.

Gondorff leaps to Niles' aid when suddenly there is a crash

at the entrance door, and Polk, Snyder and eight federal

agents burst into the room, guns drawn.  The place falls

silent except for the loudspeaker, the members of the boost

afraid to move.  Gondorff and Niles look at each other

wondering how this could have possibly happened.

Hooker's eyes go to Gondorff, who looks back at him in utter

disbelief, the betrayal raging in his features.  Hooker,

unable to meet his gaze, lowers his head and starts to walk

out.  Almost unnoticed, there's a flash of movement at

Gondorff's belt.  A small gun.  A shot.  Hooker clutches his

back and falls dead on the floor, the blood spurting from

his mouth.  Polk, reacting instantly, pours four shots into

Gondorff, who goes down in a heap.  Pandemonium breaks loose.

The members of the boost race for the door.  Lonnegan is

totally stunned.  First he lost his money and now he's

involved in a murder.  Snyder rushes over to him.

EXT. STREET

Snyder drags him through the crowd and out onto the street

where an F.B.I. car is waiting.  His bodyguards have long

since fled at the sight of the F.B.I. men.

Snyder gets in beside Lonnegan, and the car speeds away.

INSIDE THE STORE AGAIN

The pandemonium has now ceased.  Those who could escape

have; the rest are lined up against the wall in frisking

position.  Gondorff and Hooker lie on the floor dead.  The

loudspeaker drones on.  Singleton is still calling the race

from his booth, apparently oblivious to what's happened.

Polk walks slowly over to Hooker's body and bends down.

Hooker opens his eyes and slowly drags himself up off the

floor, spitting out a little rubber bladder, filled with

blood, that he's had in his mouth.  Gondorff does likewise.

Niles, Twist, Singleton and the rest of the boost begin to

laugh and shake hands, as do the Federal Agents.

Gondorff turns to the others.

Gondorff walks over to Hooker, who's wiping the blood off

his face and hands.

Gondorff nods, and walks slowly to behind the bar.  He comes

out with his suitcase in one hand and Hooker's paper bag in

another.  He throws the paper bag to Hooker, who stops by

the door.  Eirie Kid is standing there.  Hooker gives the

"office" to Eirie, who beams and gives it back.

EXT. ALLEY AND STREET

Then Hooker and Gondorff leave.  We hold on them, two

ragtail grifters again as they walk off down the street and

disappear around the corner.

