FADE IN:

INT.  RESTAURANT - MORNING (PRESENT DAY)

LOUISE is a waitress in a coffee shop.  She is in her early-

thirties, but too old to be doing this.  She is very pretty

and meticulously groomed, even at the end of her shift.  She

is slamming dirty coffee cups from the counter into a bus

tray underneath the counter.  It is making a lot of RACKET,

which she is oblivious to.  There is COUNTRY MUZAK in the

b.g., which she hums along with.

INT.  THELMA'S KITCHEN - MORNING

THELMA is a housewife.  It's morning and she is slamming

coffee cups from the breakfast table into the kitchen sink,

which is full of dirty breakfast dishes and some stuff left

from last night's dinner which had to "soak".  She is still

in her nightgown.  The TV is ON in the b.g.

From the kitchen, we can see an incomplete wallpapering

project going on in the dining room, an obvious "do-it-

yourself" attempt by Thelma.

INT.  RESTAURANT - MORNING

Louise goes to the pay phone and dials a number.

INT.  THELMA'S KITCHEN - MORNING

Phone RINGS.  Thelma goes over to answer it.

INT.  RESTAURANT - MORNING

INT.  THELMA'S KITCHEN - MORNING

Thelma has the phone tucked under her chin, as she cuts out

coupons from the newspaper and pins them on a bulletin board

already covered with them.  We see various recipes torn out

from women's magazines along the lines of "101 Ways to Cook

Pork."

Thelma goes through the living room to the bottom of the

stairs and leans on the banister.

DARRYL comes trotting down the stairs.  Polyester was made

for this man, and he's dripping in "men's" jewelry.  He

manages a Carpeteria.

Darryl is checking himself out in the hall mirror, and

it's obvious he likes what he sees.  He exudes over-confidence

for reasons that never become apparent.  He likes to think

of himself as a real lady killer.

He is making imperceptible adjustments to his over-moussed

hair.  Thelma watches approvingly.

He's finally ready.  He walks to the door and gives Thelma

the most perfunctory kiss on the cheek.

Darryl leaves.  We see his Corvette parked out front.  As he

closes the front door, Thelma leans against it.

Thelma laughs to herself.  She goes back into the kitchen

and picks up the phone and dials it.

INT.  RESTAURANT - MORNING

The pay phone on the wall RINGS.  ALBERT, a busboy in his

50's, answers.

Louise comes over and takes the phone out of his hand.

They both hang up.

EXT.  RESTAURANT - DAY

Louise pulls out in a green '66 T-Bird in mint condition.

INT.  THELMA'S BEDROOM - CLOSEUP - SUITCASE ON BED - DAY

Going into the suitcase is bathing suits, wool socks, flannel

pajamas, jeans, sweaters, T-shirts, a couple of dresses, way

too much stuff for a two-day trip.  REVEAL Thelma, standing

in front of a closet, trying to decide what else to bring,

as if she's forgotten something.  The room looks like it was

decorated entirely from a Sears catalog.  It's really frilly.

INT.  LOUISE'S BEDROOM - CLOSEUP - SUITCASE ON BED - DAY

A perfectly ordered suitcase, everything neatly folded and

orderly.  Three pairs of underwear, one pair of long

underwear, two pairs of pants, two sweaters, one furry robe,

one nightgown.  She could be packing for camp.

REVEAL Louise.  Her room is as orderly as the suitcase.

Everything matches.  It's not quite as frilly as Thelma's,

but it is of the same ilk.  She is debating whether to take

an extra pair of socks.  She decides not to and closes the

suitcase.  She goes to the phone, picks it up and dials.  We

hear:

Louise slams down the phone.  A framed picture of Louise and

Jimmy sits on the table next to the phone.  She matter-of-

factly slams that face down, too.

INT.  THELMA'S BEDROOM - DAY

Thelma is still throwing stuff in, randomly now.  She talks

to herself quietly the whole time.

She is taking stuff off of her nightstand, a small clock,

fingernail scissors, etc.

She opens the drawer of her nightstand.  Her attitude is

purposeful; she looks as if she knows exactly what she's

doing; although, frankly, she has no idea, and each decision

is completely arbitrary.  As she rifles through it, plucking

various items from among the jumbled contents, we see there

is a gun in there, one Darryl bought her for protection.  It

is unloaded, but there is a box of bullets.  She picks up

the gun like it's a rat by the tail and puts it in her purse.

She grabs the box of bullets and throws them in, too.  She

tries to close her suitcase, but there is stuff hanging out

all over the place.  She stuffs things back in the sides and

heaves all her weight against the top.

EXT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Louise's green '66 T-Bird convertible pulls into the driveway

of Thelma's house.  The garage door goes up and Thelma is

standing in the garage with all her gear.  A suitcase that

looks like it might explode, fishing gear, a cooler, a

lantern.  Thelma's car, a beat-up gray Honda, is parked in

there, too.  Louise gets out of the driver's seat.

They load everything into the car.  The trunk barely closes.

Thelma heaves all her weight against it.  They get into the

car and pull out of the driveway.  As they drive down the

street, we hear Thelma let out a long howl.

She is laughing and she sticks her arms straight up in the

air.

EXT.  CAR - DAY

They are driving down the interstate.  Thelma reaches for

her purse and finds the gun.

Louise shrieks at the sight of it.

Thelma wonders if Louise is really that naive.

Louise reaches over and takes the gun out of Thelma's purse

and holds it in her hand.  She tests the weight of it, and

then puts it under the seat.  Thelma puts the bullets under

the seat.

They are speeding off down the highway with the RADIO blaring.

Louise puts in a TAPE of wild R&B MUSIC.

They are both silent for a minute.

After a pause.

Louise's jaw tightens.  The car speeds up.

A huge semi-tanker carrying gas passes them on the highway

and HONKS.  The mud flaps are the shiny silhouettes of naked

women.  There is a bumper sticker on the back that says:

"Lick you all over -- ten cents."

Thelma is watching herself in the side mirror, pretending to

smoke a cigarette.

THELMA'S POV OF A SIGN alongside the road that reads "See

you in church on Sunday!"

Thelma pushes in the lighter and waits for it to pop out.

Louise gives her a sidelong glance, but does not say anything.

INT.  CAR - COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Louise realizes that Thelma is going to revert to a teenager

and continue whining unless she gives in.

EXT.  SILVER BULLET - NIGHT

They pull off at a place down on the right all lit up with

neon.  It's called the SILVER BULLET.  The sign flashes

COCKTAILS -- BEER -- DANCING -- FOOD.  There is a huge gravel

parking lot with lots of pickup trucks and older cars.  Even

though it's early, you can tell this place is a real night

spot.  It's already pretty crowded.

INT.  SILVER BULLET - NIGHT

This place is jumpin'.  There are ten pool tables with crowds

all around.  The long bar is filled with customers.

There are tables and booths.  The room is dense with smoke.

There is a dance floor, but no one is dancing yet because

the band is still setting up.  There are a lot of single

men.  Many heads turn and follow Thelma and Louise to an

empty table.

A WAITRESS comes over and drops two menus on the table.

As the Waitress leaves:

As the Waitress returns:

As the Waitress leaves, a MAN comes over with a chair which

he pulls up to the table and straddles backwards.

He is in his late-40's, heavyset, his face is shiny in the

neon light.

Louise kicks Thelma under the table.

The Waitress returns with Louise's drink.

Louise understands.

Harlan laughs.  Thelma laughs, too, but doesn't really get

the joke.  Louise does not laugh.

Harlan leaves, then:

Thelma knocks back her shot of Wild Turkey and holds up her

glass to the Waitress to bring her another one.  The Waitress

sees her and nods.  She turns back to face her friend.

They both drift off momentarily, contemplating their domestic

problems, until the Waitress comes over:

Thelma looks over at the bar where Harlan is grinning at

her, making dancing motions.  She smiles and waves at him.

Her face becomes serious again as she turns back to Louise.

Thelma's mind goes too fast for her mouth, and the speed at

which she speaks can be staggering.  Louise is used to it.

Louise smiles wistfully at Thelma's assessment of the

situation.

She again drinks her whole shot of Wild Turkey and holds up

her glass, as the BAND strikes up a lively tune.

Practically the whole place "whoops" and heads for the dance

floor.  Louise drinks her shot of tequila and holds up her

glass, too.

LATER

Thelma is dancing with Harlan and has been for quite a while.

Louise has been dancing with a quiet guy named DAN.  Thelma

is breathless, drunk and giggly.  She holds a beer bottle in

one hand.  She is laughing a lot about nothing, and Harlan

is studying her closely.  Louise notices this.

Louise heads off to the bathroom.

She stumbles a step and drops her beer bottle.

Louise is heading towards the bathroom, where there is a

line of at least fifteen women in front of her.

He steers her towards the door.

Louise leans against the wall, waiting in line.

EXT.  SILVER BULLET PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Harlan is hauling Thelma out the door into the parking lot.

She is pretty limp.

INT.  SILVER BULLET - NIGHT

The Waitress is going over to their table.  She picks up

Thelma's purse off the floor and puts it on her chair.

She sets the check on the table, looks around to see if she

can see them and walks away.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Louise goes into the bathroom.  She stands in front of the

sink and looks at herself in the mirror.

EXT.  PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Thelma has been sick.  She has Harlan's handkerchief and is

wiping her mouth.  Harlan has backed off for this part, but

he's right back in there.

Harlan is leaning close to Thelma's head, and she pulls her

head away.

He pulls her to him and tries to put his arms around her.

Thelma pulls away.

INT.  SILVER BULLET - NIGHT

Louise comes out of the bathroom as the next woman goes in.

She scans the room looking for Thelma.  She doesn't see her.

She goes over to the table and sees Thelma's stuff there.

She picks up the check and looks at it.

EXT.  SILVER BULLET PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Harlan has led Thelma off to the far end of the parking lot.

He is trying to kiss her now.  He is pushing her arms down

and turning her head away.

Harlan is pushing himself on her now, and she is beginning

to push him away harder.

INT.  SILVER BULLET - NIGHT

Louise is paying the Waitress.  The Waitress is shaking her

head, indicating she hasn't seen Thelma either.

Louise picks up Thelma's stuff and heads towards the door.

EXT.  SILVER BULLET PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Harlan has now pinned Thelma against the back of a car and

is kissing her neck.  He has her ass in his hands.  He is

beginning to hump her.  She is pushing him away as hard as

she can, but he is relentless.

LOUISE

is now standing outside the door of the Silver Bullet.  She

is looking around.

HARLAN

is pulling at Thelma's clothes.  Thelma gets one of her arms

free and hits him hard in the face.  He hits her back and

grabs her face, squeezing it hard.

There is no trace of friendliness in his face now.  He looks

mean and dangerous.  He lets go of her face and pins her

arms behind her.  He holds both of her arms with one hand.

With his free hand, he reaches down and starts to pull her

dress up.  Thelma is still struggling and there are tears

running down her face.

He turns her around, pushing her face down onto the back of

the car.  He holds both her arms in one hand and continues

pulling her dress up over her hips.  He starts to undo his

pants as we hear the CRUNCH of gravel.

TIGHT SHOT of the barrel of Thelma's gun being pressed into

the nape of Harlan's neck.  Louise's thumb pulls back the

hammer.

Harlan slowly raises his hands in the air, and Thelma darts

out, pulling her dress down.

Louise glances at Thelma.  Thelma shakes her head no.

Louise starts to back away, but the gun is still close to

his face.  His pants are undone in the front.  She is still

backing away with the gun raised.  Thelma is inching away as

well.

Louise lowers the gun and stares at him for a second.  Then

she turns and walks away.  Thelma does, too.

Louise stops in her tracks.

Louise takes two long strides back towards him, raises the

gun and FIRES a bullet into his face.  We hear his body HIT

the gravel parking lot.  LOUISE'S POV.  The car behind him

is splattered with blood.  Thelma and Louise are both silent.

We hear the SOUND of the nightclub in the distance.  Louise

lowers the gun.

Thelma runs to get the car.

Thelma comes careening up in reverse.  Louise hops in and

Thelma PEELS OUT, spraying gravel.  As they speed out of the

parking lot back to the road, we hear MUSIC blaring from the

nightclub.  They hit the main road with tires SQUEALING.

Louise lifts her hand and notices she is still holding the

gun.

EXT.  CAR - DISTANCING SHOT - NIGHT

They get onto the interstate going west.

TRAVELING SHOT FROM BEHIND -- VARIOUS DRIVING SHOTS

INT.  CAR - NIGHT

Louise picks up the handkerchief from the car seat and wipes

the gun off.  Her movements are as if in slow motion.  She

puts the gun under the seat.  Thelma is watching her.

Louise does not answer.

Thelma starts to cry quietly.

EXT.  INTERSTATE - NIGHT

Thelma pulls off to the side of the road.  Louise gets out

and starts to walk around the car.  She stops when she gets

to the back of the car, and she is sick.  Thelma waits in

the car and moves over to the passenger side.  Louise gets

in the driver's side.

Louise rests her head on the steering wheel.

Thelma doesn't hear.

Thelma looks at her blankly, without answering.

Thelma's head moves almost imperceptibly.  Louise studies

Thelma's face.

Again, Thelma slightly moves her head in a nod.  Louise puts

the car in gear and pulls OUT OF SHOT.

EXT.  TRUCK STOP - RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The green '66 T-Bird pulls into a modern truck stop and parks.

Louise turns to Thelma.

Again, she twitches more than nods.

Thelma nods more firmly now.  She understands.

VARIOUS POV SHOTS of truck drivers seeing Thelma and Louise

wind their way towards the restaurant portion of the coffee

shop.  They look small and incongruous with the surroundings.

INT.  TRUCK STOP - TIGHT SHOT - WAITRESS' HANDS - 4 A.M.

slamming dirty coffee cups from the counter into a bus tray

underneath the counter.  REVEAL Louise and Thelma sitting at

the counter.  Louise is looking at a map.  The car is parked

outside, near the door.

Louise looks at Thelma for a long time.

The Waitress comes and fills their coffee cups.

Thelma stands up to go to the bathroom.  She grabs her purse

from the counter, and the strap catches on her coffee cup

and it falls to the floor with a CRASH.  All heads turn and

look at her.

HOLD on Louise.

EXT.  SILVER BULLET PARKING LOT - 4:00 A.M.

Police cars are parked around.  The activity has died down.

Doors on the coroner's van SLAM shut.  In the back of a police

car sits the Waitress with the door open.  A DETECTIVE in a

suit leans over the car door with his note pad.

Lena gets out of the back of the car.

INT.  PAY PHONE - NIGHT

Outside the bathroom there is a pay phone.  Thelma picks it

up and dials.

There is no answer.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Phone RINGS.

VARIOUS SHOTS of the interior of the empty Dickinson house:

THE BEDROOM

exactly as Thelma left it.  The drawer of the nightstand

still open.

THE NOTE TO DARRYL

taped to the refrigerator.  The interior of the microwave

with a now completely thawed microwave dinner still in the

package in a little puddle.

INT.  TRUCK STOP - NIGHT

She hangs up and goes into the bathroom.  As the door closes

behind her, Louise comes up with a handful of change and

starts putting it into the phone.  She dials a number.  It

RINGS for a long time.  She hangs up and goes into the

bathroom.  She looks at herself in the mirror.

She notices a tiny speck on her cheek.  She takes a paper

towel and wets it and rubs the spot.  She looks at the towel

and there is a bright red streak.

The door of the stall flies open and Thelma comes charging

out and heads straight for the door, without even looking at

Louise.  Louise charges out after her.  They head out of the

restaurant and, THROUGH THE WINDOW, we see them get into the

car and drive away.

EXT.  CAR - DRIVING SHOT - DAWN

The T-Bird barrels down a fairly empty four-lane highway.

A truck passes going the other way.

INT.  CAR - DAWN

The top is down on the car, and Thelma is slouched on the

seat, her hair blowing wildly.

Thelma is rummaging through her purse.  She finds her wallet

and takes it out.  Thelma finds some bills stuffed in the

change compartment and takes them out.  She straightens the

money out.

As she is counting it, one of the bills flies out of her

hands.  Thelma's not that good at handling money.

Louise has not noticed any of this.  She is so intent on her

driving.

EXT.  MOTEL - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY

The motel is near farms and agricultural areas with crops.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DAY (6 A.M.)

The curtains are open and we can see the car parked right

outside the room.  Thelma is lying on the bed staring up at

the ceiling.  Louise is bustling around the room, putting

things in drawers.

Louise did not realize she was doing it.

Louise slams the closet door.  Thelma jumps.

They are silent for a moment.

INT.  POLICE GARAGE - DAY

Hal is at the police station where they're dusting the car

with Harlan all over it for prints.  Hal looks closely at

the back of the car.  He holds his hands over two sets of

hand prints.  He moves his hands to the outside of the prints

so as not to smear them, and puts his hands on the car.  His

face is one inch away from the trunk.  He sees a very clear

drop of blood.  It's different than any of the other blood

splatters on the car.  He calls the identification technician

over and points it out.

The I.D. TECH comes over and looks and shrugs his shoulders.

Hal makes a face like he suddenly felt a slight toothache.

He stares at the guy.

Hal takes out a black sharpie and draws a circle around the

area of the black smudge and the drop of blood.  He shakes

his head slightly.

EXT.  MOTEL - DAY

Thelma comes out of the room and walks towards the pool.

She stops, then decides to go on to the pool.  She lies down

in a lounge chair facing the road.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Louise in the motel room.  She's looking at the phone.  She

picks it up and dials it and watches herself in the mirror.

She stares as if she's trying to see into herself, see through

herself.

EXT.  MOTEL POOL - DAY

Thelma arranges herself in a lounge chair, trying desperately

to feel like she's on vacation.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DAY

A VOICE interrupts the message:

The machine switches OFF.

INT.  JIMMY'S APARTMENT - DAY

JIMMY, mid-30's, musician, is standing in the kitchen on the

phone.  He's not the type you'd expect Louise to like, not

quite straight-looking enough.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Louise is looking at herself on the phone in the mirror.

She is very choked up.

Louise is still looking at herself in the mirror, as if she's

never seen herself before.

EXT.  MOTEL POOL - DAY

Thelma at pool basking in the sun.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DAY

INT.  JIMMY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jimmy is shocked by the gravity of her tone of voice.  He

realizes this is very serious.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Louise covers the mouthpiece with her hand.  She is trying

very hard not to cry.

Louise sits on the edge of the bed.  She is looking at her

hand.

She takes the ring that she wears on her left hand and turns

it around backwards to make it look like a wedding band.

INT.  JIMMY'S APARTMENT - DAY

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DAY

EXT.  MOTEL POOL - DAY

Thelma by the pool.  A car SCREECHES, a loud horn HONKS.

Thelma bolts upright and grabs her sundress and dashes to

the car.  She jumps in over the door.  She's in a mild state

of shock.

Louise PEELS OUT of the parking lot.

INT.  POLICE STATION - MAJOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Hal is in the office talking to his superior.  He stands in

front of the desk with his hands in his pockets while his

MAJOR sits behind the desk looking troubled.

EXT.  CAR - FARMLAND - DRIVING SHOT - DAY

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma is staring down the road.  She does not answer.  Then:

EXT.  CAR - FARMLAND - DRIVING SHOT - DAY

INT.  POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

TIGHT SHOT of an "indent-a-kit" likeness of Louise.  On a

table nearby lies a drawing strongly resembling Thelma.

Lena, the waitress, sits next to the plain-clothes cop who

holds the indent-a-kit.  Hal picks up the drawing and studies

it closely.

EXT.  SMALL COUNTRY TOWN - DAY

The T-Bird rolls into town.

EXT.  COUNTRY STORE - DAY

Louise and Thelma pull up in front of an old store, the kind

with a wooden front porch, the kind that sells bait and

flannel shirts.  They enter the store and see an OLD MAN

behind the counter.

Louise gets change while Thelma strolls around looking at

rubber worms and pickled pigs' feet.  Louise goes out to the

phone.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

Louise dropping change into the phone.  It RINGS and Jimmy

answers.

INT.  JIMMY'S APARTMENT - DAY

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

Louise rolls her eyes and tries not to melt.

She puts her finger down on the receiver.

INT.  JIMMY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jimmy is still holding the phone to his ear.

INT.  COUNTRY STORE - DAY

Thelma in store buying gum, beef jerky.  Next to the cash

register on the counter on display are those little tiny

bottles of liquor.  Thelma picks up a little bottle of Wild

Turkey and puts in on the counter.  The Old Man rings it up.

She takes another one and puts it on the counter.

The Old Man is still ringing stuff up.

She takes two more and puts them on the counter.  She takes

the rest of the little bottles of Wild Turkey out of the

display and puts them on the counter.  She takes one little

bottle of Cuervo and puts it down on the counter, too.  The

Old Man finally looks at her.  From the wall behind him, he

takes a pint of Wild Turkey down.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

Louise is hanging up the phone.  She walks away towards the

front of the store.

EXT.  COUNTRY STORE - DAY

Thelma comes out of the front of the store.  The store is at

a crossroads with a fair amount of vehicular traffic.

Thelma is walking towards the car.  She puts her purse in

the front seat.  She looks at Louise.

Thelma and Louise look at each other while this sinks in.

THELMA

walks around to the side of the building to the phone.  She

picks it up and dials.

EXT.  STOREFRONT - DAY

Louise goes into the store for a chocolate Yoohoo.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Darryl in the den of their house.  The room is a mess.

There are beer cans everywhere.  The large screen TV is ON,

showing a FOOTBALL GAME.  Darryl is in a recliner.  He is

wearing loud shorts, a V-necked T-shirt, and a couple of

necklaces and bracelets.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Darryl is mad, but he's still watching the game.

He covers the mouthpiece and watches a play where "his team"

fumbles the ball.  This only makes him madder.  He puts the

phone back to his ear in time to hear Thelma say:

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

Thelma is trying not to cry.  She's trying to be strong.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Neither one of them say anything for a moment.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

She hangs up on him.

EXT.  COUNTRY STORE - DAY

Thelma has tears running down her face and she is watching

the ground as she storms back to the car.  So she makes a

loud grunt as she slams into someone that she did not see.

Both people are knocked back a few steps from the force of

the collision.

Thelma nods her head "yes," but tears continue.  Her crying

is silent.

Thelma shakes her head "no." She tries to control her tears.

She notices how blue his eyes are.

THELMA

collects herself as she walks back to the car.  She gets in

and is drying her eyes, looking in the side mirror.  In the

mirror she sees the Hitchhiker come back around from the

side of the building.  He is several feet behind the car,

and she watches him as he removes his long-sleeved shirt and

stuffs it into his duffel bag.  Now he is just in T-shirt

and jeans.  He looks good.  Really good.  She watches in the

mirror as he picks up his stuff and heads towards the road.

She can see him as he's walking.  He stops.  He's thinking.

He heads over to the car.

Thelma doesn't know what to do.

Thelma knows Louise isn't going to like this.

Now she wants him to come.  He starts to walk away from the

car.

Just then Louise comes out of the store.  She sees Thelma

talking to this guy and, for one moment, stops dead in her

tracks as she takes this in, then continues toward the car.

Although her face is basically expressionless, we see that

it's possible she might kill Thelma.

The Hitchhiker just nods and starts walking towards the road.

The guy does seem really nice and Thelma is really frustrated

that Louise wouldn't give him a ride, but decides not to

confront her.

Louise lowers the top and backs the car out.  They watch him

walk away.

Louise pulls out of the parking lot onto the road.  They

pass the Hitchhiker.  Thelma waves.

She turns around in the seat to continue waving.  He smiles

and waves.  They drive down the road.  TIGHT SHOT of the

Hitchhiker as the smile fades from his face.

INT.  CAR - DRIVING - DAY

Thelma looking sulky.

Louise doesn't say anything.

INT.  POLICE STATION - DAY

Hal goes over a list of every registered green T-Bird in the

state.

INSERT - COMPUTER MONITOR

Names are scrolling by as Hal stares blankly at the screen.

We see the name LOUISE ELIZABETH SAWYER scroll past.  It

means nothing to Hal.

INT.  CAR - DAY

It's twenty minutes later.  They are clear of the town.

Thelma is like a dog with a bone.  She just won't let it

drop.

Louise is completely unreasonable on this subject and Thelma

is totally puzzled by Louise's reaction but is reluctant to

press her further.

Louise looks very shaken up.  She keeps her eyes on the road

but she's holding the steering wheel so tightly, her knuckles

are white.  She does not look at Thelma.  Suddenly she reaches

over and locks her door.  Thelma flinches imperceptibly at

this gesture.

EXT.  ROAD - FARMLAND - DAY

Two Harley-Davidson bikes tool past, driven by a couple of

ex-hippies from the 60's.  The Hitchhiker is on the back of

one, and he waves to them as they go by.  Thelma waves back

enthusiastically.

Louise pops a TAPE into the cassette player.

EXT.  LOUISE'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - DAY

Hal walks up the sidewalk past a couple of elderly people

sitting outside, to the door of an apartment complex and

knocks.

INT.  LOUISE'S APARTMENT - DAY

VARIOUS SHOTS of Louise's empty apartment.

There are pictures of Louise and Thelma in high school.

The kitchen is spotless and nothing is out on the counters.

HER BED

is unwrinkled, perfect, and next to it on her nightstand is

a picture of Jimmy and her in a small heart shaped frame.

Everything is extremely neat and orderly.

EXT.  LOUISE'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - DAY

Hal is walking back down the sidewalk past the old people.

He stops, turns around and goes back to them.  We see him

stand and talk to them.

OVER MUSIC:

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma and Louise are singing along with the MUSIC.

EXT.  CROSSROADS - DAY

Hitchhiker standing on the side of the road.  Thelma looks

at Louise pleadingly.  Louise's car pulls over and he hops

in the back seat.  An animated Thelma turns around backwards

in the front seat to face him.

INT./ EXT.  COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Hal walks into the coffee shop where Louise works.  VARIOUS

SHOTS of him talking to other employees.  Albert, waitress,

etc.  Some cover their mouths as they recognize police

sketches of Louise and Thelma.  The Day Manager comes over,

looks at the pictures and talks to Hal.

INT.  CAR

Thelma passing out beef jerky and Wild Turkey to Hitchhiker

and Louise.

EXT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Hal's unmarked detective car pulls up in front of Thelma's

house.  A Corvette, completely customized with everything,

sits in the driveway.

INT.  CAR

Hitchhiker leans over resting his chin on the back of the

front seat.

Louise laughs.  He has charmed her too.

EXT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Hal is walking up the sidewalk as the front door flies open

to reveal a drunk Darryl in Hawaiian shorts, necklaces and a

beer can in his hand.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Hal and Darryl in den.  The TV DRONES in the b.g.

Pictures and papers are on the table.  TIGHT SHOT of Darryl's

face.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DEN - DAY

EXTREME CLOSEUP of Darryl's face.

EXT.  RURAL HIGHWAY - DAY

J.D. is looking down the road, way off in the distance.

Louise looks down the road and sees a highway patrol car

coming down the road towards them.  She does not look alarmed

but veers off the road into a "rest area" drive that has

trees and shrubs that obscure the view from the road.

She glides along as the cop car passes on the other side

without seeing them.

Louise glides right back onto the road as if nothing unusual

has happened at all.  They realize they have not been spotted.

J.D. and Louise look at each other.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Hal is on the phone to the FBI man.  Darryl is sitting on a

chair looking dazed.  Other law enforcement types roam around

the house.

INT.  FBI OFFICE - DAY

MAX STRATTON, an FBI MAN in his early forties, is looking at

the ident-a-kit drawings of Louise and Thelma.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

INT.  FBI OFFICE - DAY

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

EXT.  FLATLANDS - ROAD - DUSK

The T-Bird barrels down the road at high speed.

EXT.  SHAW'S SIESTA MOTEL - DUSK

Louise, Thelma, and J.D. pull into the motel parking lot.

Louise looks at J.D. in the back seat and takes the keys out

of the ignition.

Louise gets out of the car and goes inside.

INT.  MOTEL OFFICE - NIGHT

An older WOMAN behind the counter is looking at a computer

screen.

Louise turns and sees Thelma crawl over into the back seat

with J.D.

A MAN comes up behind Louise and stands close behind her.

He drops an envelope in front of her.  Louise is startled

and turns around quickly.

The Woman hands them a key.

EXT.  MOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Louise and Jimmy walk outside and catch Thelma sitting very

close to J.D.  Thelma sees Jimmy and is so startled she

screams and involuntarily slams herself across the back seat

to the other side of the car.  She tries to look nonchalant.

J.D. is climbing out of the car, looking very uncomfortable.

He quickly turns and walks away toward the road.

Jimmy is smiling.

Louise shoots Thelma a look.  The three of them drive around

to the back of the motel.  Thelma turns and looks at the

road.  J.D. is standing there.  He blows her a kiss.

EXT.  MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

They stop in front of the motel rooms and the three of them

climb out of the car.

Thelma is taking their luggage out of the trunk.

Jimmy helps carry the luggage to Thelma's room.  He stops at

the door.

Louise smiles at him quizzically as if she can't believe

he's acting this way.  He turns on his heel and slinks away.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

They close the door to their room.  Louise sets the envelope

of money on the table.

Louise gets her purse and starts taking out her makeup.

She stands very close to the mirror.  She is putting on lip

liner.  Thelma is watching.

Louise is still putting on her makeup, making sure it's

perfect.

Louise turns to face Thelma.

Louise walks out the door.

EXT.  MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

It's raining out.  Louise goes to Jimmy's room.

Louise knocks on the door to room 115.  The door opens

slightly and one red rose pops out.

The following eleven roses are held out the door, then Louise

is yanked inside and we hear her shriek with LAUGHTER.

INT.  THELMA'S MOTEL ROOM - EVENING

Thelma has taken a shower and is dressed in cut-offs and a T-

shirt.  Her hair is still damp but she looks better than she

did when she arrived.  Thelma is fixing a drink of Wild Turkey

and Diet 7-Up in one of the motel room glasses.  There is a

KNOCK on the door.  She stops what she is doing and is

completely still.

Another KNOCK.

Thelma opens the door and there stands J.D., soaking wet

from the rain pouring down behind him.

He's kind of looking over towards the road.  He's still

slightly shy.

He notices looking past her into the room that Louise isn't

there.  Thelma just stands there looking at him.

You can tell he does want to but doesn't want to say so.

So instead he just kind of stands there with a reticent grin

on his face.

Thelma pretends like she's had a lot of experience with this

sort of thing.

INT.  JIMMY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy is pouring champagne into Louise's glass.  There are a

dozen roses in a vase on the table.  He pours for himself as

he sits as close to Louise as possible.

Louise just looks at him for a minute.

Jimmy is once again shocked by how serious she is.

Louise spills her champagne.

They both take a second to regain their composure.

Jimmy pulls a little black box out of his pocket.

He hands Louise the box.  She opens it and it is a diamond

ring.  Louise is flabbergasted.

INT.  THELMA'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

J.D. is out of the shower standing in front of the mirror

wearing only his jeans, the top button of which is still

undone and no shirt.  He has an incredible physique.  He

also has a tattoo on his shoulder of the homemade variety.

Thelma has gone and bought cheese crackers and peanuts from

a vending machine and is into her second Wild Turkey and 7-

Up.  She sits on the bed, watching him in the mirror.  He

definitely looks better with his shirt off.

She suddenly feels awkward and stands up.

INT.  JIMMY'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Louise has the engagement ring on her finger.  It's really

beautiful.

Louise doesn't know how to respond.  She struggles for a

reply.

Jimmy doesn't answer right away.  He's trying to see it.

Jimmy does not really understand why this is happening.

INT.  THELMA'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Thelma has poured a drink for J.D. who's sitting on the edge

of the bed.  She walks over and hands it to him and as she

does, he takes the drink with one hand and her hand with the

other.  He sets the drink down on the nightstand and holds

her hand with both of his.  He closely studies her wedding

ring.  He suddenly looks up at her and gazes at her just as

intently.  He slowly shakes his head as he removes her ring

as if to say, "This is not right for you.  This isn't going

to work."  He looks at the ring as he moves it through space

finally stopping when the ring is directly over his drink.

He drops it in.  He looks back at Thelma and smiles as if to

say, "There.  Now don't you feel better?"  He smartly kisses

her hand.

INT.  JIMMY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Louise and Jimmy are sitting on the edge of the bed.

Jimmy has put the ring on her finger and they both are looking

at it, as Jimmy holds her hand in his.  They both ponder it.

INT.  THELMA'S ROOM - NIGHT

J.D. is standing on the dresser with a towel tied around his

neck like a cape.

He leaps from the dresser and flies across the room landing

on the bed, straddling Thelma.

Thelma has not stopped laughing since he came in the room.

He is the greatest guy she's ever seen.  He is sniffing her

neck like a dog.

Thelma tries to catch her breath.

J.D. attacks her again.

Thelma gasps.

J.D. jumps up and picks up a hair dryer and holds it like a

gun.  He starts acting it out.

They kiss passionately.

J.D. turns out the light.

INT.  JIMMY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Louise and Jimmy are wrapped in each other's arms, quietly

making love.  Through this, Jimmy is ardent.

She smiles.  Completely.

EXT.  SIESTA MOTEL - DAWN

MONTAGE of early morning staff, a truck driver climbing into

his cab with a silver thermos, squirrels hopping around on

the ground.

INT.  SIESTA COFFEE SHOP - DAWN

TIGHT SHOT of coffee beginning to drip into an empty coffee

pot.  Louise and Jimmy are sitting in a booth, both on the

same side.  They are both playing with their wedding rings.

They sit for a minute.

They look at each other, into each other and Jimmy can see

that Louise is already gone.  Louise is really touched that

he asked her that but she knows it's impossible.  She is

very kind to him.

In her hand she's been holding the ring in the black box.

She puts it on the table and slides it back to him.  He stops

her, suddenly.  He covers her hand with his.

Jimmy is trying not to seem upset, so he's completely still.

A taxi pulls up outside.

Jimmy pulls her to him and kisses her so passionately that

employees in the coffee shop look away.  A cook fans himself

with a spatula.  The taxi driver, who can see in, looks at

his watch.

Louise looks at her hand and Jimmy's hand.

Jimmy gets up and leaves the coffee shop.  Louise watches

him go.  A WAITRESS comes over and fills her coffee cup.

The Waitress chuckles and the other waitresses do too.  Louise

waves to Jimmy in the back of the cab.  The cab driver winks

at her.  She smiles to herself.

INT.  THELMA'S MOTEL ROOM - MORNING

The room is totally trashed.  J.D. and Thelma are both asleep,

naked and hanging off either side of the bed.

J.D. starts to stir...

INT.  HAL'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Hal is in bed with is WIFE.  He has to get up.  He is holding

his wife in his arms.

INT.  COFFEE SHOP - MORNING

Louise is sitting in the booth by herself.  Thelma comes

hurrying by.  She looks disheveled but is grinning like an

idiot.  She sees Louise and charges into the coffee shop.

Her energy and volume is several notches higher than the

rest of the people in the coffee shop.  There are a couple

more customers in there now.  Thelma slides into the booth

seated directly across from Louise.

She is shocked by Thelma's appearance.

Louise is studying Thelma closely as Thelma squirms in her

seat, barely able to contain herself.

Thelma is just about to shriek when the Waitress comes over

and puts a coffee cup on the table and pours some.

Thelma gets a grip on herself for a moment then loses it as

the Waitress goes away.

Thelma is just laughing hysterically.  Louise suddenly

understands.

Louise is getting a bad feeling.  She is already standing up

putting money on the table.

Thelma has forgotten all about the money.

They are both leaving the restaurant now.  As they hit the

door they both break into a full run.

EXT.  MOTEL PARKING LOT - DAY

They run across the parking lot around the back to the room.

The door is ajar and no one is in the room.  Louise goes in

and Thelma stays outside the door.

Louise comes back outside.  She doesn't say anything.  She

is stoic, fighting tears.

Louise sits down on the sidewalk in front of the room.  Thelma

comes and sits beside her.  Neither one says anything for a

moment.

Louise shakes her head no.

Louise has seen the end of the tunnel and there is no light.

Louise quietly starts to fall apart.  This causes Thelma to

leap into action.

Louise is still sitting on the sidewalk.

Louise slowly gets to her feet.

Thelma is hauling stuff out of the car.

EXT.  MOTEL PARKING LOT - MORNING

TIGHT SHOT of rear wheel of green T-Bird LAYING RUBBER out

of the motel parking lot.  Thelma and Louise, both looking a

little rougher than we've seen so far, drive away.

EXT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Hal, FBI Man, various other police and detective types, pull

up in front of the house.  The front door swings open and

there stands Darryl looking like he's been shot out of a

cannon.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Louise and Thelma pull into a convenience store.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Police are tapping the phones, dusting for prints, etc.,

while Darryl sits motionless in his recliner with a dull

expression on his face.

Max comes up and joins them as they walk down the hallway.

EXT.  CONVENIENCE STORE - DAY

Thelma and Louise are sitting in the car.  They've put all

their money together.

Thelma marches off to the store.  Louise puts a tape in the

deck and is listening to loud R&B MUSIC.  She checks herself

in the rearview mirror.  She takes her lipstick out and is

about to put it on.  She makes eye contact with herself and,

instead, throws it out the window, closes her eyes and leans

her head back on the seat.  She's in a world of shit.

Thelma comes trotting out of the store and jumps into the

car.

Louise looks at her.

Thelma opens her purse and exposes a bag full of bills.

Thelma shrieks with excitement.  Louise is completely stunned.

Louise shoots her a look.  She puts the car in gear and FLOORS

it out of the parking lot.  She is still looking at Thelma

as if she has completely lost her mind.

INT.  POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Hal, Max, various other cops, and Darryl all watch as TV

plays back VCR TAPE of Thelma in the convenience store pulling

a gun.  In perfect lip sync is:

TIGHT SHOT of Darryl's face going deeper and deeper into a

state of shock.  TIGHT SHOTS of Hal, Max, etc., all looking

intently at the screen.

VIDEO IMAGE of Thelma boldly ordering cashier to fill her

purse with money.  As he's loading the purse with bills,

she's taking beef jerky from the display and putting it in

there, too, while she points the gun at the cashier.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma and Louise in car, driving.

INT.  POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

TIGHT SHOT:

TIGHT SHOT:

TIGHT SHOT:

EXT.  DRIVING SHOT - DAY

Louise throws the map across the front seat at Thelma and

FLOORS it.

FADE IN:

INT.  JIMMY'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Jimmy is entering the apartment building, carrying his

overnight bag.  Two men are sitting on the stairs.  They

stand as he comes in.  They are plainclothes police.  They

show their badges.  He leaves with them.

EXT.  ROAD - TIGHT SHOT - J.D.'S BACKSIDE - DAY

made only more prominent by the bulging wallet in his back

right pocket.

J.D. is walking down the road and continues to walk as an

Oklahoma State Patrol car pulls up alongside him.  He smiles

and gives a friendly wave as they cruise along slowly beside

him.  We can see the cop nearest him talking, and then we

see J.D. stop walking and set down his duffel bag.  He reaches

for his wallet.  It's clear that they have asked for some

I.D.

EXT.  RURAL ROAD - DAY

Louise is driving.  They fly past a kid on his bike on a

long gravel driveway.  He watches them.  A huge cloud of

dust blows up as they pass him.  He turns and rides his bike

down the driveway towards the house.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Louise looks at the speedometer touching 80 mph and lets her

foot off the gas.  Louise is looking a little nervous.

Thelma howls like a dog and drinks a little bottle of Wild

Turkey.

INT.  POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Jimmy is in a small room with Hal, Max, other cops, looking

stunned.

Jimmy is really upset and has to really struggle to control

himself.

EXT.  DRIVING SHOT - DAY

Thelma and Louise are in the car.  Thelma is taking empty

little Wild Turkey bottles out of her purse and throwing

them out the window.

They come ROARING up on a semi-tanker carrying gas.  We see

their FISH-EYE REFLECTIONS in the shiny tanker.

The mud flaps are the shiny silhouettes of naked women that

Thelma and Louise saw earlier.  The truck is going slower

than they are.

She noses out to see if she can pass, but there's a car

coming.  The car passes and the truck HONKS.  The truck

driver's arm comes out his window and waves them past.

As they get next to the truck, the truck driver is smiling

and waving at them.  They smile and wave back.  He flicks

his tongue at them.  Louise screams.

Louise FLOORS it and speeds past him.

Louise shivers with disgust.

INT.  POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Jimmy is looking at police mug shots of a lot of young guys.

Hal shows Jimmy a mug shot of J.D.

EXT.  POLICE STATION - DAY

J.D. arriving, handcuffed, at State Police building.

EXT.  DIRT  ROAD - DAY

The T-Bird is entering terrain that looks more like desert.

The top of the T-Bird is up.

INT.  CAR - DAY

They both pause for a moment.

Then:

Louise does not answer the question.

EXT.  DIRT ROAD - HELICOPTER SHOT - DUSK

As the sun sets, the T-Bird drives deeper into the vast

desert.

INT.  POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Darryl is sitting in the hallway.  Two officers are leading

J.D. down the hall.

Hal, Max, other plainclothes officers follow.  Darryl looks

at Hal questioningly.  Hal doesn't respond and the entourage

quickly goes into a room.  Darryl stands and crosses the

hall to the room as the door shuts in his face.

INT.  POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

INT.  POLICE STATION - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Darryl tries the doorknob, but the door is locked.

INT.  POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Hal, Max, J.D., other officers.  There is a VCR and monitor

set up in the room and they view the videotape of Thelma in

the convenience store.

Hal thinks for a moment and then looks to Max.

Max agrees and opens the door for the others to leave.  He

and Hal make eye contact before Max closes the door.

Hal sits down across the table from J.D. and looks at him.

J.D. doesn't say anything.  They both just sit there for a

moment.

J.D. shifts in his chair.

Hal walks over and opens the door and Max and the others

straggle back in.

INT.  POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Darryl is sitting in the hallway.  Hal comes out of the room

first.

Police officers lead J.D. out of the interrogation room,

down the hallway.  Darryl is watching J.D. closely.  J.D. is

smirking at him.

Hal and another police officer are restraining Darryl.

J.D. is led off down the hall.

EXT.  GAS STATION - NIGHT

Louise and Thelma pull into a gas station.

EXT.  GAS STATION - NIGHT

A gas station attendant approaches as Louise and Thelma are

getting out of the car.

Thelma and Louise walk to the phone.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The TV is ON and the place is a mess.

Darryl, Hal, Max, and other cops spring into action as the

phone RINGS, putting on headsets, turning on tape recorders.

Darryl picks up the phone.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - NIGHT

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Hal, Max, etc., all are gesticulating wildly.

EXT.  PAY PHONE

Thelma hangs up the phone.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Everyone is very disappointed, taking off their headsets,

turning off tape recorders and looking at Darryl like he's

an idiot.

Darryl still holds the phone in his hand.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - NIGHT

Thelma and Louise are staring at each other intently.

Louise steps up to the phone.

Thelma digs in her bag and hands Louise a roll of quarters.

Louise gets out of the car and goes to the pay phone.  Thelma

follows her.  She puts the money in and dials.  It RINGS.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Again everybody springs into action.  Darryl is fumbling

with the phone.

Darryl gives Hal and Max a look as if he's got it completely

under control.  Clever guy.

EXT.  PHONE - NIGHT

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Hal comes over and takes the phone away from Darryl.  Hal

looks at Max who nods, "take it."

EXT.  PHONE - NIGHT

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

EXT.  PHONE - NIGHT

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

EXT.  PHONE - NIGHT

Louise looks at her watch.

On hearing this Louise mouths the word "shit" in a very

frustrated way.

Louise hangs up the phone.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

All are busy trying to see if the call was traced.  Darryl

is back in his recliner still in shock.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - NIGHT

She is stomping back to the car.  Thelma follows doggedly.

A moving van pulls in and parks in the b.g.

Louise stops as she is about to get in and faces Thelma who's

standing on the other side of the car.

Louise yanks open her car door, gets in and slams the door

and fires up the ENGINE.  Thelma hops in quickly.

Louise careens back onto the road.

Louise slams on the brakes.

Louise stops yelling for a moment groping for self-control.

Thelma looks pitiful.

EXT.  LONELY ROAD - NIGHT (MUSCO LIGHT)

The T-Bird flashes by on a road that looks a lot like Route

66.

EXT.  THELMA'S POV - OUT PASSENGER WINDOW - PITCH BLACK

EXT.  BACK ROAD - NIGHT

The car goes streaking by.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT (MUSCO LIGHT)

All's quiet.  The large screen TV is ON and the room is filled

with dense smoke.  Hal, Max, sit at a table going over

paperwork.  Other plainclothes and surveillance guys play

cards.  Darryl sits crumpled in his recliner staring blankly

at the TV.

INT.  JIMMY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jimmy sits on his couch with his guitar while two plainclothes

cops sit reading the paper, doing the crossword puzzle.

INT.  CAR - NIGHT

Over music from tape:

Thelma is sipping on a little Wild Turkey.

Louise speeds up.

Thelma hands Louise a little bottle of Wild Turkey and she

drinks it down.  Thelma has one too.

EXT.  MOONLIT DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT (MUSCO LIGHT)

They are driving through Monument Valley.  The T-Bird speeds

through the beautifully moonlit desert.  It is almost like

daylight.

MONTAGE of silhouettes of cacti, huge rock formations, desert

beauty SHOTS, etc.

INT.  CAR - POV THROUGH WINDSHIELD - NIGHT

The sky is bright and expansive and the road goes on forever.

They both look forward for another moment.  And then, at the

same time, they look at each other, each taking the other

one in completely, in this moment.

They're saying everything to each other in this moment, but

their expressions don't change and they don't say a word.

MUSIC plays on the RADIO.

EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT

A semi-gas tanker is up ahead on the road.  It looks like

the one they saw earlier.  It's got the same mud flaps...

INT.  CAR - NIGHT

Louise passes him and, as she does, he HONKS.  They look up

and he is wildly pointing to his lap.

EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY - DAWN (OVER MUSIC)

The car is flying down the road.

INT.  CAR - DESERT HIGHWAY - DAWN

They are quiet for a moment, then Thelma starts quietly

laughing to herself.  She is trying to stop but cannot.

Thelma is trying to compose herself but cannot.

Thelma isn't making a sound.  She is stuck in a convulsion

of laughter.

Thelma is still trying to get a grip on herself.

Thelma is laughing wildly.

Thelma has just crossed the line from laughing to crying.

They both get quiet.

Thelma leans back just watching Louise.  She studies her as

if she's never really seen her before.  All of a sudden a

look of shocked realization comes over Thelma's face.

She jerks upright and startles Louise.

Louise knows what she is talking about.  She becomes

immediately agitated.

Louise looks as if she is looking for a way to flee.

Louise's eyes are wild, not seeing, while Thelma now seems

completely serene.

EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY - DAWN

The car is SCREAMING down the road.  They drive through a

little stand of buildings.

EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY - LONG LENS SHOT - DAWN

A car speeds up to try and catch them... The red and blue

lights pop on.  It is a New Mexico State Patrol car.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Louise sees the lights in the rearview mirror.  LOUISE'S POV

OF THE SPEEDOMETER at 100 mph.  Thelma is asleep.

Thelma jumps awake.

They are trying not to panic.  They are slowing down, but

still doing 70 mph.  The patrol car is right behind them.

Louise pulls the car off the road.  The patrol car pulls up

right behind them.  The lights shine brightly in through the

windows.

EXT.  SIDE OF DESERT HIGHWAY - DAY

Louise does.  The PATROLMAN gets out of his car and approaches

their car.  He comes to the driver's side window.  It is

rolled up.

PATROLMAN'S POV OF LOUISE smiling up at him.  He gestures to

her to roll her window down.  She does.

Louise fumbles in her purse for her wallet, opens it and

shows her license.

She does and hands it to him.

They walk to the back of the car.  He notes the license plate

number.

Patrolman gets in the driver's side.  He picks up a clipboard

and clips Louise's driver's license to it.  He picks up the

hand mike for the radio and, as he does, a hand with a gun

comes in his car window.  It's Thelma and she puts the gun

to his head.

He drops it.

Louise reaches over and takes his gun.

Louise SHOOTS the car radio.  The cop flinches with each

shot.

Louise fires TWO SHOTS into the police radio.  It BLASTS all

to hell.

Louise reaches over and takes the keys.  She takes her license

off the clipboard.  She gets out and trots around to the

back of the car.

Thelma is holding the gun on the Patrolman.  Suddenly Thelma

FIRES the gun, blowing two holes into the trunk cover.

Louise opens the trunk.

As he's climbing into the trunk, Thelma explains to Louise:

He's all the way in and Louise closes the trunk.

INT.  PATROL CAR - DAY

Thelma opens the glove compartment.  She takes a box of spare

ammo and closes it.  Thelma takes the keys and gets out of

the car.  She walks around to the trunk.

EXT.  PATROL CAR - DAY

Thelma hops into the car with Louise.  They look at each

other.

Louise pulls the car back onto the road and they drive away.

INT.  CAR - DAY

EXT.  CAR - MONTAGE DRIVING SHOTS - DAY

They are in really beautiful country now.

INT.  THELMA'S KITCHEN - MORNING

Hal and Max are alone in the kitchen.  Hal switches on the

Mr. Coffee.

A cop walks into the kitchen and hands Hal a file that says

Louise Elizabeth Sawyer on the outside.  He opens it up and

starts looking through a personal history.  One piece of

paper is a case file from Texas containing an incident report

of a rape.  Stamped across it are the words "charges dropped."

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma pauses while she searches for the logic.

They are both quiet for a second.  Louise goes a little

faster.

Thelma is digging through her bag.  She hands Louise a piece

of beef jerky.

Thelma puts down her bag.

Thelma starts to dig through her bag again.

Louise is rubbing her face.  She looks pretty bad.  Her hands

are shaking.

Louise does not really seem alright.

EXT.  ROADSIDE REST STATION - MORNING

Louise is at a pay phone as the sky is just starting to get

light.  Thelma is in the bathroom nearby.  Louise has already

dialed and the phone is RINGING.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - MORNING

The TV DRONES on in the b.g. as the phone RINGS there,

everyone leaps into action again.  Max picks up the phone.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - MORNING

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - MORNING

Hal smiles.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - MORNING

Louise does not answer.

Through clenched teeth, repulsed:

Louise thinks for a minute.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

The surveillance man motions to Hal to keep it going.

Darryl comes in and immediately realizes Hal is talking to

Louise.  Darryl looks attentively at Hal.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

Louise's eyes get wide as she hears this.

A FINGER reaches up and presses down the lever and hangs up

the phone.

ANGLE OF THELMA

She has her finger on the lever.

She walks away towards the car.  Louise is still standing

there holding the phone.  Thelma stops and looks at her.

Louise doesn't move.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Frustrated, Hal slams down the phone.  He looks over at the

surveillance man who nods to say "we got it."  The whole

room reacts excitedly.  Everyone in the room springs into

action.  Max immediately picks up the phone and Hal watches

him intently.  He mouths the words to Max -- "I wanna go"

emphatically.  Max slightly shakes his head, still of the

phone.  Hal goes charging over to Max.

Max, still holding the phone, is surprised by this outburst.

EXT.  PAY PHONE - DAY

Louise is still standing there.

Louise is surprised to be hearing this from Thelma.

They are both quiet for a moment.

Louise STARTS the car.  They lurch into reverse then SCREECH

forward as they tear off down the road.

WIDE SHOT OF CAR

as they fly down the road.

EXT.  AIRSTRIP - DAY

A car pulls up on an airstrip and stops next to a small jet.

Hal and Max get out of the car and board the plane.

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

MONTAGE of driving shots as Louise and Thelma drive through

the intense beauty of the Arizona desert.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Louise and Thelma both get quiet for a second.

They are both laughing.  The car is still flying down the

road.  The sun is coming higher in the sky now.  They come

to an intersection in the middle of nowhere.  Louise stops

and looks at the map.

Louise takes a right turn and speeds down the road.

EXT.  DESERT ROAD - DAY

Louise and Thelma are singing along to a wild R&B SONG.

They do the hand movements as if they are the Supremes.

They come roaring up on the semi-tanker, the same one they

have seen three times before.

EXT.  DESERT ROAD - DAY

Louise bears down really hard and passes him.  Again as they

get right next to him, he blows kisses down at them.

He is leering at them and laughing.  Louise and Thelma drive

further down the road.

Louise pulls the car off to the side of the road.  As the

truck gets close they start waving to him to stop.  He pulls

his truck off the side of the road and stops.  ANGLE ON Louise

and Thelma smiling up at him.  He chuckles to himself.  He

leans out the window.

They turn off onto a dirt road and pull to a stop.

INT.  TRUCK CAB - DAY

The Trucker reaches over and opens a glove compartment crammed

full of condoms.  He grabs a few and shoves them in his

pocket.  He turns off his engine and gets out of the truck.

EXT.  SIDE OF ROAD - DAY

He walks up to the car.

Louise and Thelma get out of the car.

Louise nods.

This is not what is supposed to be happening.

He is getting a little panicky.

Louise pulls the gun they stole from the State Patrolman.

He looks at the gun.

Louise looks at his truck off in the distance.  She points

the gun at it, takes a second to get a bead, then SHOOTS two

of the tires flat.  The truck slowly sinks as the air escapes

from the tires.

Louise and Thelma look at each other.  They both turn towards

the truck and FIRE rounds into the tankers until they EXPLODE

in a huge ball of fire.  The truck driver screams at the top

of his lungs.  Louise starts the car and starts driving in

circles around the truck driver.  Thelma and Louise are both

howling at the top of their lungs.  Thelma is sitting on the

back of the front seat with her legs on the dashboard.

Louise stops the car right next to him.

Louise takes off again and Thelma falls into the back seat.

They drive off trailing a huge cloud of dust.

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

Louise drives through the desert back towards the road, past

the burning debris of the truck.  As she gets to the road

she stops.  Thelma climbs into the front seat.

INT.  CAR - DAY

They pull away from the burning wreckage.

INT.  CAR - DAY

As Thelma and Louise talk, their voices are heard over the

following scene.

EXT.  NEW MEXICO SIDE OF ROAD - DAY

A battered old pickup truck is parked by the New Mexico State

Patrol.  An old man uses a crowbar to pry open the trunk.

The New Mexico State Patrolman hops out of the trunk.

EXT.  DESERT ROAD - HELICOPTER SHOT - DAY

Police Bulletin VOICE OVER BEGINS AND PLAYS OVER following

scenes:

A police helicopter flies over the burning wreckage of the

fuel truck.  The truck driver is waving his arms as the

helicopter descends, blowing dirt all over him.

INT.  THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY

Darryl sits practically comatose in a big chair.  His eyes

have a dull glaze as he stares first at one wall, then

another.

INT.  CAR - DAY

A TIGHT SHOT of a TAPE being shoved into the cassette deck.

INT.  FBI JET - DAY

Max and Hal sit next to each other in the jet.  Hal tries to

appear as if he's used to all this.  Max holds a cellular

phone to his ear.

TIGHT SHOT of Max as we hear through the phone:

Police VOICE OVER becomes part of scene.

Max's face becomes troubled and more serious than we've seen

so far.  He looks at Hal as he hangs up the phone.

EXT.  FBI JET - DAY

The jet banks off to the left.

EXT.  DESERT ROAD - DAY

WIDE SHOT of car speeding through the desert on an empty

highway west.  DRIVING SHOT -- Thelma has her face to the

sun with her eyes closed.  Louise is driving with a fierce

intensity.  They hardly resemble the two women that started

out for a weekend in the mountains two days earlier.  Although

their faces are tanned and lined and their hair is blowing

wildly there is a sense of serenity that pervades.

EXT.  HELIPORT - DAY

Hal and Max are climbing out of the jet and running across

the tarmac to a waiting helicopter.  Max is carrying a walkie-

talkie now.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma sits up suddenly.  An Arizona police car passes them

going eastbound.

LOUISE'S POV - REARVIEW MIRROR

The police car cuts across the median to begin pursuit of

the girls.  The lights are flashing.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma puts her seat belt on.  Louise floors the car and it

streaks off, putting some distance between them and the police

car.  Thelma looks back at the police car.  She looks scared.

INT.  ARIZONA POLICE CAR - DAY

STATE POLICEMAN is on his radio.

EXT.  ARIZONA STATE POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY

A steady stream of state police cars pulls out of the parking

lot with lights flashing while other policemen are running

to their cars still parked in the lot.

INT.  CAR - DAY

EXT.  DESERT ROAD - DAY

There are now two police cars behind them about half a mile

back.  They are going really fast.  A police helicopter

catches up to them and orders them to stop.  Thelma stands

and flips them off.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Louise and Thelma both are looking back at the two police

cars following them.  They turn back around just in time to

see a third Arizona State police car has pulled into the

middle of an intersection of the only road that crosses it

for miles.  They both scream.  Louise swerves just in time

to keep from hitting it broadside.  She goes off the road

and has to struggle to pull her car back onto the road,

leaving a huge cloud of dust.

EXT.  DESERT ROAD - DAY

The first two police cars are approaching the same

intersection.  They are driving side by side.  There is still

a huge cloud of dust that now covers the third car in the

middle of the intersection.

INT.  POLICE CAR #1 - POV - DAY

A huge cloud of dust blows across the road as he approaches

the intersection.  It clears to reveal the third police car

in the middle of the road, just as he and police car #2 reach

the intersection.  ANGLE ON POLICEMAN #1 as he screams and

swerves to the right.

INT.  POLICE CAR #3 - DAY

ANGLE ON POLICEMAN #3 AS HE SEES BOTH POLICE CARS HEADING

right for him at 120 mph.  He screams and ducks down into

the seat.

ANOTHER ANGLE - POLICE CAR #

swerves to the right.  Police car #2 swerves to the left,

both barely missing police car #3.

ANOTHER ANGLE as police car #1 and police car #2 both pull

back onto the road right next to each other.

INT.  POLICE CAR #3 - DAY

Policeman #3 sits up in the seat.  He can't believe he isn't

dead.  He puts his car in gear and takes off down the road

after them.

INT.  CAR - DAY

EXT.  DESERT GHOST TOWN - DAY

Louise and Thelma blow through a stand of buildings left

from when the train went through here.  There are two parallel

streets on either side of the one they're on and, as they

pass by buildings, they can see police cars ROARING down

these parallel streets trying to "head them off at the pass."

Louise FLOORS it and her car screams ahead.

EXT.  DESERT ROAD - DAY

Louise swerves off the road and begins driving across the

desert.  All the police cars take off across the desert after

them.  They are now being pursued by at least fifteen cars.

INT.  CAR - DAY

They smile.

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

It does look like an Army.  More police cars have joined,

and from every direction, police cars are swarming across

the desert, although none are in front of them.  Way off in

the distance, a helicopter joins the chase.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma is looking way up ahead in the distance.

Louise strains to see.  Whatever it is, Louise is barreling

towards it, the car leaving the ground as they fly through

the desert.

Louise starts to laugh and cry at the same time.

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

Behind them is a huge wall of dust created by all the police

cars following them.  In front of them, looking larger every

moment, is the awesome splendor of the Grand Canyon.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Louise has tears streaming down her face as she realizes

there is absolutely no escape.  She continues barreling

towards it without slowing down.

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

All the police cars are still following about a half a mile

behind.  The car is bouncing and flying across the desert.

Finally, they get about twenty yards from the edge and Louise

SLAMS on the brakes.

Thelma and Louise are just waiting for the cars to catch up.

The police cars stop in a line about two hundred yards behind

them.  The dust from the cars is blowing across them.  They

just sit looking at the Grand Canyon.

From the canyon, the FBI helicopter rises up in front of the

car.

INT.  FBI HELICOPTER - DAY

Hal sees Thelma and Louise for the first time.  They are

sitting in the car, oblivious in a way, to all the activity

around them.  He only takes his eyes off of them long enough

to look at Max.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma starts to laugh.  Louise is only concerned with missing

the cacti and other obstacles that lie before her.

INT.  FBI HELICOPTER - DAY

The helicopter lands behind the row of police cars.

HAL'S POV

He sees Thelma and Louise facing each other.  They look so

nice.  He can't stop looking.  He borrows the binoculars

from Max.  He sees Thelma and Louise in the car.  Some of

the police sharpshooters are sporting semi-automatic rifles.

Hal looks at Max.

Max climbs out of the chopper.  Hal sits for a moment and

then leaps out and follows Max.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Thelma is smiling at her.

They look at each other, look back at the wall of police

cars, and then look back at each other.  They smile.

TIGHT SHOT - CARTRIDGES

being loaded into automatic rifle.

THELMA AND LOUISE - THROUGH THE CROSS HAIRS OF A GUN SIGHT

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

TWO OF THE ARIZONA COPS by their cars, as they are loading

weapons, talk quietly.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Louise and Thelma are looking at each other.

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

Hal is about to crawl out of his skin.  He can't believe

this thing is getting out of control.  He jumps in front of

Max.

Max goes around Hal and continues walking.  Hal jumps in

front of Max again and blocks his way.

Max lets go of Hal's lapels.

Hal walks along with a look of total disbelief on his face.

He's shaking his head.  Slowly he breaks into a trot and

starts heading toward the front line.

Hal is running now and clears the front row of cars.

There is a lot of confusion among the officers on the front

row.  Some shout, some lower their guns to look.

INT.  CAR - DAY

They are still looking at each other really hard.

SHOOT WITH OR WITHOUT.

MUSIC:  B.B. King song entitled "Better Not Look Down" begins.

It is very upbeat.

Thelma nods.

Louise puts the car in gear and FLOORS it.

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

Hal's eyes widen for a moment at what he sees, and then a

sense of calm overtakes him and he mouths the word "alright."

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

The cops all lower their weapons as looks of shock and

disbelief cover their faces.  A cloud of dust blows THROUGH

THE FRAME as the speeding car sails over the edge of the

cliff.

