A shadow creeps across her face as she pulls the stick into

reverse and backs up.

EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY BOULEVARD - EVENING

We follow her as she backs up, pushes into drive and heads

slowly down the boulevard.

The road is empty. All the cars are neatly tucked away in

their driveways and it looks like no one's out tonight. She

makes a right turn onto.

EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY CRESCENT - EVENING

She follows the road as it curves around a long row of

endlessly monotonous houses. In the distance, we can see the

gates of Pleasant valley gated community.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

She slows down, rolls down her window and swipes a chub card

against the security panel. The gates slowly open. She drives

through. The gates close behind her. She rolls the window up

and makes a left turn onto.

EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY DRIVE - EVENING

The road is wider and framed on either side by the high walls

of gated communities. A Ford Explorer just like hers passes

in the opposite direction.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Della smiles mysteriously, reaches into the glove compartment

with her free hand. She pushes aside a bunch of car papers, a

flare, pulls out a check wallet hidden underneath - her

secret hiding place for:

A nice pack of Marlboros. She smiles again - the smile of the

secret smoker. She presses the cigarette lighter into the

dashboard.

The lighter pops out. She tips out a cigarette, sees a

sticky note attached to the interior foil. Scrawled in messy

handwriting are the words - YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO BE QUITTING

DELLA HONEY. XOXO KENNETH.

She rips the note off, stuffs it in her purse, lights the

cigarette.

She inhales deeply.     We see the pleasure written across her

face.

EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY DRIVE - EVENING

A few cars pass Della in the night. Their lights are like

torches in the suburban wilderness.

INT. FORD EXPLORER/ EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY DRIVE - EVENING

There is the familiar ring of a cellular phone. Della has

programmed one of those "oh so cute" recognizable tunes into

it, like the "William Tell overture".

Della holds the wheel with one hand and fumbles through her

purse with the other. She eventually locates the phone.

Della rolls her eyes.     This is not a welcome call.

Della balances the phone while she drags on her cigarette.

Oh great.   She exhales sharply.

The desolate road disappears behind Della.    She passes a

roadside memorial.

If Della was going before, she's not now.

A red light looms ahead. Della slows.

Christmas lights outline a few distant houses.

Della stops at the red light. She clicks off the phone and

lets it lay on her lap.

She rakes about among a bunch of kids stuff in the back seat,

casts aside, an anorak, mittens, a sock.

She finds what she's looking for, a bottle of water, caught

on the bar under the passenger seat. It's only a third full

but she takes a sip, recoils from its coldness.

The light changes.   She throws the bottle into the back seat.

EXT.   PLEASANT VALLEY DRIVE - EVENING

Christmas lights: reindeer, stars, even the American flag dot

the black night.

INT.   FORD EXPLORER - EVENING/ EXT CROSSROADS

Della picks up the phone and pushes a few keys. She has not

dialed enough to make a full phone call when we hear the

phone RING on the other side.

Della slows down for another red light.

She's at a wide crossroads where the housing development

abruptly ends and a wasteland of deforestation begins.

A billboard for another new housing development announces:

"GREEN STREET DREAM HOMES - Investment Opportunities".

Waiting for the light at the opposite side of the road from

Della is a car with an animal cadaver strapped to the roof.

Della tries not to look at it.

A recording breaks into the moment just as the light ahead

changes to green.

Della presses the pound key and drives straight ahead.

Frustrated, Della turns on the radio.    It is some innocuous

local ad.

Della switches stations trying to find something she likes.

She gives up and waits for Meghan to return. The car flashes

past construction road signs.

Meghan giggles. We hear the familiar beep of another call

coming in.

Della clicks the phone over to the incoming call.

Cassie's voice is almost lost in the din of her surroundings.

A loud noise appears out of nowhere.

INT. FORD EXPLORER/EXT. RAILWAY CROSSING - EVENING

The car SCREECHES to a halt. Della almost didn't see it. She

is at a railroad crossing, the third car in line, and she

almost rear-ended the car in front of her.

The phone cuts out. The train starts to go laboriously past.

Carriage after carriage of brand name building materials for

new housing developments.

Della lights another cigarette.

She turns on the radio again, finds a station playing "The

Sound of Silence".

The crossing gates go up.   The cars ahead of her start.

Della shifts into drive.

The phone rings its special tune again.   Della turns the

volume of the radio down.

Della's phone makes a loud, distorted noise.

She rifles about in the passenger seat, leans over to the

back, and rifles about there among the kids toys, gives up.

Cassie's kind offer almost reduces Della to tears.

The phone beeps again.

The light up ahead turns amber then red.    Della stops.

The light changes and Della drives up and over a hill.

The phone beeps again.

The phone beeps again.   It's over.

Della lets it drop onto her lap. She opens the window and

flicks out the remains of her cigarette. She waves her hands

to fan away the smoke. She closes the window again.

She's about to hide her cigarettes again when she changes her

mind and stuffs them directly into her purse.

As the car approaches the cusp of the hill she slows down to

stare ahead.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT ENTRANCE - EVENING

Southeast Plaza.   The day before Christmas Eve. Hell on

Earth.

A large, sprawling parking lot full of cars.   Nothing but

cars. A sea of cars.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

For a second, Della contemplates turning around and leaving.

The guy in the SUV behind her beeps. She steps on the gas.

Her car careens slowly down hill to the lot.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT/INT. FORD - EVENING

The road spits her out in front of the Mall entrance where

revellers and shoppers are entering and exiting.

Della follows several cars down the first long row of parked

cars.

The asphalt is wet from the recent rainfall. Puddles gather

in its dents and hollows.

She passes car after densely parked car. There isn't a space

in sight. She reaches the end of the row and indicates left,

turns down the next row, ploughs through a rain puddle which

splashes up onto a MOTHER who's walking her little GIRL and

BOY back to their car. The woman shouts at Della.

Della rolls down her window.

The Mother's weighed down with shopping bags. She glares at

Della and drags her kids across the aisle in front of her.

Della sighs, drives down the second aisle.

An Escape midway down the row blocks traffic. It's waiting

for a Subaru to pull out so it can take the spot.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

The Subaru exits the spot slowly. Della taps her impatient

fingers against the steering wheel.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

The Subaru pulls away and the Escape snaps into the empty

space.

Della continues her journey down to the end of the row. There

are no spaces.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

It dawns on her that parking up close to the entrance just

isn't going to happen. She takes the last puff from the

cigarette burning out in the ashtray.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

Using the side aisle she scoots past row three and four as

they all flow one way.

At the end of this row a confrontation is brewing. Several

cars block each other. Horns blast. An angry DRIVER screams

at another.

INT. FORD EXPLORER/EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

Della looks on for a moment at the confrontation. She grinds

out the stub of her cigarette into the ashtray, slams it

closed.

Della shakes her head and turns left into row five. Jesus!

Are there really this many cars in Pleasant Valley? It's a

brand new Mall and the only one around for miles but this is

ridiculous.

Della reaches the end of row five quickly. She guessed there

wouldn't be a spot so she's driving faster.

She notices a portly middle aged RENT-A-COP directing traffic

ahead. She lowers her window.

The Rent-a-Cop stops directing and approaches the car.

He points off into the distance through the sea of cars.

A car waiting behind Della honks its horn loudly and the Rent-

A-Cop saunters away. Della guns the Ford down row eight.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

At the end of this row, Della decides to take the Rent-A-

Cop's advice. She makes another left at the aisle and skips

several more rows. She heads down to the third from last row.

INT. FORD EXPLORER/EXT MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

Cars... cars... If she never sees another car it will be too

soon.

Della spies a spot, halfway down the row.

She guns the engine, gets ready to pull in and is DENIED.

Somebody has parked an enormous old gold Plymouth so badly

it's taking up TWO spaces.

She brakes in the nick of time and sighs deeply. She's

starting to lose her patience now.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

With no options left, Della heads down to the very last row.

More cars fill the spaces. And then - two spots. The last

two spots in the car park. They overlook undeveloped land

just beyond the mall. Small concrete bumps signify the end of

each space.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Della whips the car into the first one. She sighs with

relief as she straightens the car up into the spot. She sits

for a second trying to calm herself down but it isn't

working. She reaches for another cigarette, then, talks

herself out of it.

She fastens her coat, grabs her purse and opens the door.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

Steps down from the Ford right into a puddle. The dirty water

splashes up onto her pants.

She shakes the boot off and looks over at the mall. It's at

least a half mile away, glimmering in the distance.

She sets off marching across the lot, taking what seems to be

the most direct route. Maybe she can shake off this mood by

the time she gets inside.

She passes the Plymouth, turns, stares back at it. The car is

dirty gold and riddled with rust holes with a vinyl roof

that's almost peeled away. She walks up close, tries to

decipher the plate, but it's caked with mud.

Annoyance rises like bile in her throat.

She finds herself reaching into her purse, rummaging for a

small notebook, then a sharpie. She leans on the car as she

writes.

DEAR JERK, IT'S GREAT YOU COULD USE UP TWO PARKING SPACES ON

A NIGHT LIKE THIS. EVER HEAR OF THE JOY OF SHARING? SIGNED,

A CONCERNED FRIEND.

She scans her words.    Pretty good!

Della rips the piece of paper from the notebook, folds the

note several times and slides it under the Plymouth's

windshield wipers. The driver can't miss it.

She smiles. That felt good!

Head held high she marches on towards the Mall.

The CAMERA pulls up so we can see the mall, see Della

marching across the lot, see the crowds of shoppers entering

and exiting the mall, and get the feeling that maybe somebody

just saw her.

EXT. MALL ENTRANCE - EVENING

Shoppers are buying freshly felled Christmas trees from a

vendor. Della squeezes past and pushes through the mall

doors.

INT.   MALL - EVENING

A wave of heat and Christmas lights hits Della. A wave of

nausea follows as she is swallowed by the crowd of last

minute shoppers. Distorted muzak versions of Christmas songs

seep from invisible speakers.

Della gets caught up in a line of children waiting to see

Santa in his grotto. She squeezes through and makes her way

towards the fountain outside of Victoria's Secret.

En route she is stopped by a perfume sales lady who sprays

her wrist with perfume before she has time to protest.

She hands Della a sample and flyer.

Della arrives at the fountain. A piddling jet of dirty water

gurgles from the mouth of a bored mermaid and streams down

into the shallow pool full of nickels and dimes. She scans

the crowd but there's no sign of Cassie.

Della sits at the edge of the fountain. She checks her watch

then checks out the people milling around in front of

Victoria's Secret, where mannequins in skimpy festive

underwear are propped seductively in the window displays.

Still no sign of Cassie. She's about to make a wish and throw

a quarter into the fountain when a Red Cross worker shakes

her "Save the Children" tin at her. Della sticks the quarter

into the tin instead.

INT.   VICTORIA'S SECRET - EVENING

Della wanders the aisles of festive colored undies watching

men pick out slinky lingerie for their partners and women

examine slim fit underpants and padded bras.

She notices a pure silk black teddy, very classic, no frills.

She lifts it from the rail and holds it against herself in

front of the mirror, tries to imagine herself in it.

A young SALES ASSISTANT approaches.

Della checks the size tag. It reads 36C, two sizes too big.

And the price tag next to it. Ouch! It's expensive for

Victoria's Secret.

She gestures to her small boobs, smiles and hands the teddy

to the sales assistant. She quickly leaves the shop.

INT. MALL - EVENING

Della checks one last time at the fountain for Cassie. She

tries to dodge the crowd as she makes her way toward a

generic coffee shop. Maybe Cassie will be there.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - EVENING

Harried women and a few men, clutching bags full of gifts and

impatient children, stand on line for their favorite drug.

Della squeezes past them to look for Cassie. Every seat at

every booth is full but there's no sign of her friend.

Della joins the line. She finds herself biting at her nails,

a bad habit since childhood.

A woman in front of her places an order then moves on to the

pick up area. Della moves up to the counter to where an

OVERWEIGHT SALES ASSISTANT waits on her.

She notices some chocolate covered biscotti on the counter.

She catches sight of herself in the mirror behind the

counter. Kenneth's right about one thing, she looks awful.

Seeing herself in the mirror changes her mind about the

biscotti.

Della pushes the money towards her and waits for her coffee.

When it finally shows up her name is spelled DELA. She sighs

and checks the line for Cassie as she leaves the shop.

INT. MALL - EVENING

She passes a hair salon and presses her face to the steamy

windows. Inside, women are getting their hair styled and

their nails manicured at the same time.

Della looks down at her bitten nails but just can't bring

herself to go inside.

She turns around to see LYNN MONROE, a pretty, well groomed

redhead about her age.

Della nods but Lynn keeps speaking. Della sips on her latte.

Lynn becomes distracted, focusing on her perfect reflection

in the steamy glass.

She opens the bag and Della sees it's the black teddy she

eyed earlier. Della smiles.

She gives Della a fake kiss and rushes into the salon.

Della chucks her half finished coffee into a nearby trash can

and walks on through the Mall.

INT.   PHARMACY - EVENING

Della enters a pharmacy. She locates the wrapping paper

aisle. She sweeps up a bunch of rolls at three for ninety

nine cents. She feels the texture of the paper, it's thin and

looks gaudy so she puts them all back. Instead she selects

some expensive gold paper with silver embossed stars and

matching silver ribbon. She then finds some jolly children's

wrapping with Christmas tree designs and a great big red bow.

She browses through the aisles of cards. She sees some cute

cards for the twins and then arrives at the "To my Darling

Husband at Christmas" section. She opens some of the cards

and recoils from the sentiments contained inside.

She catches a groomed BLONDE HOUSEWIFE staring at her and

corrects her facial expression from one of revulsion to a

complicit Stepford smile.

The woman looks at Della like she's a lunatic. Della chuckles

to herself.

She finds the feminine hygiene aisle and picks up a pack of

regular tampax.

She gathers her stuff and carries it to the checkout where a

TIRED MAN and his TWO KIDS wait before her on the line.

The man tries to remove a snow globe, with a tiny house and

Christmas tree inside, from the clutches of his young son.

The child starts bawling. The man ends up buying the snow

globe to placate the child.

It's Della's turn.

The PHARMACY SALES ASSISTANT smiles.

She packs Della's stuff into paper bags. Della hands her visa

card over.

INT. MALL - EVENING

It's a lot less crowded now. The melancholy "Home for

Christmas" plays. She follows the ladies sign to the entrance

to the bathroom, only to find an "Out of Order" sign on the

door. She sees a cleaning lady in the corridor.

The    cleaning lady disappears through the bathroom door with

her    cart of cleaning utensils. Della looks down the length of

the    huge mall and decides she's not even going to try to find

the    other bathroom. She can wait until she gets home.

She makes her way towards the exit, pulls her coat in tight

and braces herself for the cold front outside.

EXT. MALL ENTRANCE - EVENING

A group of CAROL SINGERS sing "Silent Night".

Della listens for a moment. Their voices are clear and

bright.

Behind them she can see the Christmas tree vendor bag up the

left over trees.

Della's hands start to pinch with the cold.

She gathers her bags of wrapping paper and sets off across

the emptying lot. The last of the shoppers rush across the

car park to find their cars. It's pretty dark between the dim

pole lamps and the car lights.

She slows down at the second aisle for a car to pass, then

another. Marches on.

A man and his little girl walk past. He nods. Della's eyes

linger on the little girl. She really wants to get home to

the kids.

The singers' voices echo faintly through the night.

She walks faster, almost at a dash.

Where is her car? Even further out than she remembered,

that's for sure.

A car alarm goes off in the distance.

The alarm stops at last as Della approaches the outer section

of the parking lot.

She cuts between some of the cars in row eight. Zigzags

across aisle nine. Notices the Plymouth still parked ahead.

She stops for a split second. Then approaches. Glances at the

windshield. The note is gone.

Maybe it fell off. She checks the ground around the car. No

sign of it. She shrugs, who cares anyway?

She cuts across the next aisle. It's almost empty. And the

one after that. Her Explorer is sandwiched between two cars

in this otherwise empty row.

She chirps the remote twice and pops the trunk, places the

bags inside. She slams the trunk closed and hurries to the

drivers' side, climbs in, pulling the door closed behind her.

INT.   FORD EXPLORER   - EVENING

Della turns the key in the ignition and presses in the

lighter. She lights a cigarette and inhales as she lets the

car warm up for 30 seconds.

She rests the cigarette in the ashtray while she releases the

hand brake and slips the gear into reverse. The interior of

her car is suddenly flooded with light from another car's

headlights. She glances in the rear view mirror. A car is

blocking her.

She steps on the brake and waits for the car to move.

But it doesn't. Its headlights flick to full beam blinding

her view in her car mirrors. She honks her horn. The car

still doesn't move.

Della's really angry now. She slips the gearshift into park

and steps out of her car.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

Della squints in the blinding headlights. The front of the

car looks familiar. It's the gold Plymouth!

Two unseen car doors click open and clunk shut again.

The lights abruptly go out. Della blinks, her eyes try to

adjust to the dim mercury illumination from a pole lamp a few

car lengths away.

She uneasily turns back to her car.

It's a young male voice. The statement stops Della dead in

her tracks.

The words are emphasized by another boy's shrill giggling.

Della freezes. This can't be happening!

Her eyes are adjusting. The glare phantoms drift out to the

limit of her peripheral vision and vanish.

She sees three boys in front of her, then a fourth, but she

doesn't see any gun.

HUEY is a sweet-faced African-American decked out in a hip

hop style. He's small and skinny and can't be more than

eighteen. He's playing to CHUCKIE who's twenty-one and looks

like a marine gone AWOL. Bracketing them is VINH, a nineteen

year old Asian punk and TOMAS, twenty, a Latino runaway in an

American Idol T-shirt.

Della's eyes drift across the group. She suppresses a

hysterical giggle but can't resist smarting off.

Huey messes with his zipper.

Huey and Tomas snigger. Vinh stares at the asphalt.

Chuckie nudges Huey and Tomas, steps towards Della.

The boys fall silent.   Vinh lights a cigarette. Huey shivers.

He pinches Huey's cheeks.

Chuckie leads Huey a few steps to the Plymouth. Huey ducks

into the back seat. Chuckie keeps his eyes fixed on Della.

Della looks defiantly back without answering. Chuckie runs

his fingers along the hood of the rusty gold Plymouth.

Vinh inhales sharply from his cigarette.

Della's eyes quickly scan the group for sign of the gun. She

can't see one so she gambles they're just mouthing off and

makes her move.

Della turns towards her car. Huey steps out of the shadows

wearing Chuckie's parka hood up covering his face, startles

Della.

Della sidesteps him, reaches the back of her car.

Everyone turns to see a Rent-a-Cop, puffed up like a pigeon

in his fur trimmed jacket and Russian style cap. It's the

same guy Della approached earlier when she was looking for

spaces except this time his hand is laying casually across

the unsnapped holster flap at his hip.

Chuckie smiles and nudges Tomas who starts dancing in a real

mocking manner imitating the Rent-a-Cop.

Chuckie pulls a gun from deep in his army jacket pocket and

points it straight at the Rent-a-Cop's face.

Chuckie looks at his friends for approval. Huey laughs again,

shrill. Tomas grins. Vinh hunches and looks around.

The Rent-a-Cop backs away.

Tomas takes off a small crucifix from around his neck and

dangles it in front of the Rent-a-Cop.

Chuckie grins at Della while keeping the gun pointed straight

at the Rent-a-Cop.

The Rent-a-Cop goes for his pistol anyway.

Chuckie shoots him in the face.

THIS MOMENT CHANGES EVERYTHING.

We thought Della was in trouble but now we know she is.

The bullet hits the Rent-A-Cop in the forehead. Blood spurts

from the exit wound. He slumps to the asphalt like a

marionette whose strings have just been cut. Bullet smoke

hangs in the air where he once stood. Smoke too blackens the

bullets entry wound. Blood puddles out from the back of his

head.

It's clear that Chuckie's been acting harder than he is. The

hand that holds the gun is trembling. The color drains from

his face.

All stand riveted in shock.

A deathly silence follows. The carol singers can be heard in

the distance faintly finishing up Silent Night.

Chuckie looks to his friends for support but none is

forthcoming.

The Rent-A-Cop's body twitches.

Chuckie hesitates then raises the gun. He aims and fires. The

shot shatters the top of the Rent-A-Cop's head. Chuckie

flinches, closes his own eyes in reflex.

Della swallows. If she started screaming now, she may never

stop. She spins instead and makes for her car door. She's

dead if she doesn't get out of here and she knows it.

Chuckie opens his eyes. Vinh points to Della.

Chuckie looks over and sees Della disappear through the door

of her Explorer. Agitation overwhelms him.

He looks at Vinh who nods then at Huey.

Chuckie looks back at Vinh then over at Tomas.

No one answers. Chuckie turns once more to the Rent-a-Cop

whose body still twitches in some final death throe.

He raises the gun.

Another shot explodes into the night.

INT.   FORD EXPLORER   - EVENING

Della flinches but no   bullet tears through the back of her

skull. She slams into   the driver's seat and punches the door

lock switch. She hits   the four wheel drive button and presses

the accelerator pedal   to the metal.

The Explorer barely protests as its front tires claw and

bounce over the six inch concrete row barrier. The barrier

screeches along the underside of the frame. There is a loud

SCRAAAAAPE noise as the car heaves over the barrier. Then,

the rear wheels bounce and claw over. The car fishtails

momentarily.

She releases the pressure on the accelerator. The Explorer

straightens.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING

Tomas screams at Chuckie.

All except Chuckie turn to look as Della accelerates across

the unfinished outskirts of the car park behind them.

Vinh tugs at Chuckie's sleeve.

But Chuckie's staring at the bloody mess he made, with a

faraway look in his eyes, like he's disassociating.

Vinh throws down the stub of his cigarette, follows Tomas

into the Plymouth. Tomas guns the engine.

Huey's almost hysterical.

Chuckie turns on him.

Behind him Della's car turns onto the mall's outer perimeter

service road in the distance.

Chuckie cajoles Huey.

Huey calms down.

Chuckie gently pushes him into the Plymouth back seat beside

Vinh.

Chuckie opens the driver door.

Tomas shuffles over to the passenger seat. Chuckie climbs

into driver side. Doors slam. The Plymouth screeches across

the parking lot and exits onto the service road.

EXT.   SERVICE ROAD - EVENING

Della speeds down the long dark empty service road which

skims the deserted warehouses at the back of the Mall.

Between the warehouses are dark patches of undeveloped land -

No Mans land.

Not a car nor a person in sight.

It starts to rain.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

She shakes the cell phone trying to revive its dead battery.

Types 911 in anyway. No connection. No response. She shakes

it some more. Gives up.

She relentlessly checks the rearview and side mirrors as she

races into the rainy night.

The driving conditions are not good, poor visibility ahead.

Too bad. She speeds anyway.

The road has to connect to a main road soon!

Another glance in the rearview. Nothing. Side mirror. Still

clear. Once more in the rearview. Headlights!

Side mirror. It's the Plymouth.

She presses the accelerator down harder. The engine revs.

In the rearview there's a sudden flash above her rear left

headlight. And another.

They're shooting at her!

Della steps the accelerator to the floor praying the Explorer

won't skid out. The engine struggles, catches up.

The sudden speed causes a small silver love heart, hanging on

a silver chain necklace from the rearview mirror, to crash

against the window. The catch bursts open to reveal two tiny

photos of the twins inside. The necklace flies back and forth

against the window as the Explorer races onwards.

EXT. SERVICE ROAD - EVENING

The Plymouth accelerates behind blasting rap. Its thick tires

plow along the wet asphalt, gripping to the road below in

steady pursuit. Its windows are all steamed up. The front

passenger window is open, a hand and a gun muzzle stick

through.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Another flash and Della's left side mirror shatters.

She swerves in panic. Her car almost hits the ditch.

This can't be happening. Not to her.

She reclaims the steering wheel.   Straightens up. Hits the

accelerator again.

EXT. SERVICE ROAD - EVENING

The Plymouth swerves behind on the skid that Della created,

corrects itself just before the ditch.

Della gains speed. The Plymouth lags.

A stop sign appears ahead. The road's ending.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Right or left, Della? Make a choice.

EXT. SERVICE ROAD - EVENING

There is no choice. A barrier blocks the left hand turn. A

big sign reads "LOT FULL".

EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE ROAD - EVENING

Della swings right instead.

The streetlights recede behind her.

EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE - EVENING

Nothing but the darkness of a housing complex under

construction ahead.

But she seems to have shaken off her pursuers.

She speeds down the road, looking intently for any sign of

life. But there's nothing but half-built houses, empty

houses, houses just like hers.

EXT. SEVEN ELEVEN MINI MALL - EVENING

A Seven Eleven sign appears. She slows down. But it may as

well be a mirage, it's an unfinished building with only the

sign, in an unfinished mini-mall.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Close to screaming now she speeds up.

EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE - EVENING

More empty houses in varying stages of construction. No sign

of life.

EXT. FILLING STATION - EVENING

Then, what looks like a filling station, one light on in the

kiosk.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Hope. She pulls in and dims her lights, drives right up to

the kiosk door.

Hope dashed.

EXT. FILLING STATION - EVENING

It's in its final stages of installation but definitely not

functioning. And there's no one there.

EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE - EVENING

Back onto the road and she sees far behind her, car

headlights that can only belong to the Plymouth, following

her through the darkness.

She dims her lights to just the side lights. Hurtles along

the dark road which is getting rougher and rougher. Potholes

filled with mud and rain water splash against the car.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Her wipers struggle to cope. She can hardly see through the

front window.

EXT. ROUGH ROAD - EVENING

The potholes yawn deeper. The asphalt ends. Gravel

deteriorates to dirt.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

She steers the Ford blindly.

EXT. ROUGH ROAD - EVENING

A wooden barrier with reflective stripes looms suddenly

ahead.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

She guns the engine and ducks sideways as her car PLOWS into

the barrier.

There's a sickening crack as shattered windshield sprays

around her.

EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - EVENING

The Explorer SLAMS through and VEERS towards a clump of

trees.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

Della tries to sit upright but the auto's spinning too fast.

EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - EVENING

The car swings, then CRASHES right into a Pine tree.

INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING

The Car stalls out. SILENCE. A prolonged moment.

Then Della crawls out from under the dashboard, sweeping pine

needles and glass from her hair. She reaches up and hits the

light switch.

Pine branches protrude through the broken windshield.

Using the sleeve of her coat she sweeps broken glass from the

driver's seat and sits down.

She slides the gear into park, turns the key. The engine

groans like a dying animal, then gives up.

She takes a deep breath.

She tries again. The engine groans again, another death

rattle. It just won't catch.

She switches off the interior light and pushes the driver

door open. She steps out of the car.

EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - EVENING

She closes the door behind her so's not to trigger the light

switch. Finds her legs are giddy. Holds onto the door frame

for a moment to steady herself.

It looks like she's crashed at the very end of the housing

development - where it cuts like a knife edge into an old

forest.

The dirt road stretches ahead beyond the barrier, into the

midst of the forest. Behind her, shrouded in darkness, houses

in different stages of development dot the deforested

landscape. Land moving trucks sit on recently flattened

land, waiting to tear into the next layer of forest.

Patches of leftover snow and puddles of rain catch the light

from the moon which hides in an overcast sky.

Jesus! She's driven all the way from the Mall only to find

herself in the middle of nowhere with a bunch of psychopaths

on her tail.

This must be some sick joke.

Speaking of which, where are these little bastards? Her eyes

scan the darkness for a sign. Nothing. That doesn't mean

they're not close by.

She checks out the damage to the car by feel. The driver's

side is scratched and dented. The front is wedged into the

tree.

The only way out is for her to back up the car.

She climbs back in for another try.

INT.   FORD EXPLORER   - EVENING

Della turns the key. It barely even groans this time. Just a

faint gurgle. Then gone.

She rifles in the glove compartment and pulls out the flare,

sticks it in her pocket.

She leans under the dash and manually pops the trunk.

EXT.   EDGE OF WOODS - EVENING

Della runs outside to the back of the car and feels about in

the trunk.

She throws carrier bags full of wrapping paper to the side as

she searches. Pulls out a lug wrench from underneath and then

a small tool box.

She hears the screech of a car's wheels spinning in mud.

EXT. ROUGH ROAD - EVENING

Della turns to see headlights in the distance on the road

behind, pointing upwards.

The Plymouth must have skidded and got stuck in the mud.

EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - EVENING

She closes the trunk softly then runs to the front of the

car, clutching the toolbox and the wrench. She reaches back

into the car and unlatches the hood from underneath the dash.

Pop. She softly closes the door again. Punches her way

through the branches. Slides her fingers under the hood,

pries up the lever. It pops up only a few inches.

She tries to manually lift it. But it's heavy with the weight

of pine branches.

Voices drift towards her.

The sound of car doors opening, feet squishing into the mud

and cussing. The boys materialize in the light from the

headlights.

Doors slam and two sets of footsteps join the others.

Della drops the hood. It makes a faint squeak but doesn't

slam down, seems it's stuck open these last few inches.

Chuckie's eyes scan the housing estate.

Della frantically sweeps pine branches and cones from the

hood. But some larger branches are jammed, wedged by the

broken tree.

When she looks back over for the boys she sees the car

headlights are off and there's no sign of them.

She stands stock still, listening, scanning the landscape for

a sign of them.

The sound of glass shattering breaks the silence.

Della jumps out of her skin, spins around. Her eyes settle on

a light in the distance.

EXT. ROUGH ROAD - EVENING

The light illuminates the small cabin of an earth moving

truck. The cabin glows like a box in the darkness. There's a

figure inside: it's Chuckie. He's inspecting a powerful

construction flashlight. He switches settings from broad

light to concentrated beam. He points the beam through the

broken glass window onto Tomas, who's standing on a truck

tyre knocking out the rest of the glass with his elbow.

Chuckie leaps down through the broken window, pleased with

his find.

He switches it to broad beam, whistles.

The light dances around illuminating each of their faces for

seconds at a time. Eerie distorted glimpses. They're

traipsing along the rough road, through the mud, towards

Della. Their voices grow louder.

Chuckie pushes Huey half playfully, half annoyed.

Huey stares off into space like he's having a vision.

Huey shakes his head in disbelief.

Chuckie is taken aback by what Huey is saying. He walks away,

turns his concentration back to the flashlight. Huey calls

after him.

Chuckie gets right up in Huey's face.

Huey takes his time to answer.

Chuckie puts his hand on Hueys shoulder and gently pushes him

along the road.

EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - EVENING

Della tries once more to lift the hood. It still won't budge.

When she looks up the flashlight is dancing towards her.

Vinh sees the car.

Della grabs the lug wrench and toolbox and ducks behind the

trees.

Della sees them approach her car.

Huey, now resigned to their mission, comments sadly.

Della creeps softly along the edge of the trees. She holds

her breath. If she makes a sound, she's dead.

The boys kick around the Explorer.

Della skims the trees, constantly checking behind her, to

where her antagonists check out the Ford wreck.

Chuckie points to some footprints.

When there's enough distance between them and her, she darts

from the forest's edge into the development and hides behind

a half finished house.

EXT. UNFINISHED HOUSE 1 - EVENING

She leans against a recently bricked wall, finally takes a

breath. The smell of fresh cement and putty fills her

nostrils.

Rain gathers and drips from a nearby ledge

She peers around the side of the house.

EXT. EDGE OF WOODS/CONSTRUCTION SITE - EVENING

Beyond the rows of plots of land with their sold signs, she

sees the boys still pacing and debating beside her Ford,

illuminated by the sweeping light rays of their flashlight.

Her eyes drift across the landscape of house foundations and

structures to the distant neon lights of the shopping mall.

When she looks back over for the boys, she sees that the

flashlight and the boys are gone.

She strains her eyes. Guesses that must mean they're off

looking for her in another direction.

She clutches the tool box and silently creeps between the

houses.

If she could just track along the edge of the development she

could maybe make it back to the Shopping Mall, to the twins.

An owl hoots from the trees behind. She freezes, eyes

sweeping the immediate area for danger.

She waits a moment, silence, then makes her way once more

between the edge of the development and the edge of the

trees.

She's trying desperately not to make a sound, praying to be

invisible, eyes darting around, evaluating every shape and

form.

On one side the dense wood of trees, predominantly pine, with

thick ancient trunks and tangled branches. On the other,

plots and structures of homes to be.

She keeps trudging on, skirting the edge of the trees,

following the lights in the distance.

She hears a loud thudding noise. Stops. Stops breathing.

EXT. PLANKS IN TARP - EVENING

Ahead, piles of planks wrapped in black tarp block her view.

She braces herself, peers cautiously around, sees nothing.

She clutches the lug wrench and toolbox and steps forwards.

Rain water from the branches of a nearby tree is dripping

down and collecting in a puddle in the middle of the tarp

causing the sound.

She breathes a sigh of relief.

EXT. CEMENT PILES - EVENING

Heaps of damp shingle and cement cause her to back up and

around past them and a cement mixer. She loses sight of the

neon mall lights. She panics.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - EVENING

She runs between the foundations of two houses.

She stops suddenly when she sees a giant shadow looming

across her path.

She ducks down the side of a half finished house.

Sees that it is the shadow of an earth moving truck.

She keeps going, between the houses, looking for a sign of

the mall lights.

She stops.

Just ahead, a flurry of footprints.

They're her footprints!

EXT. UNFINISHED HOUSE 1 - EVENING

She finds herself back where she started, at the same house.

The mall lights flicker in the distance as far away as they

always were. The Ford's still there ahead.

And then she sees the flashlight sweeping towards her.

She bites back a sob.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - EVENING

Della shrinks backwards between the houses. She ducks into

an unfinished doorway and watches the boys pass ahead.

She runs into the house and out through the far side. Skirts

a row of plots of land. Then, she hears Chuckie's mocking

voice, echoing through the building site.

Della recoils. Did she just hallucinate?

How the hell do they know her name?

Can they see her? Or is he just shouting her name randomly

into the night?

Her eyes dart right then left then back again.   Nothing.

She runs down a row of house foundations.

INT. UNFINISHED HOUSE 2 - EVENING

Della dives into an unfinished house, hides behind a space

where a window will eventually be, looks out across the

building site. All is dark outside. And then she sees the

light several rows down, weaving between the houses.

She makes for another window at the opposite end of the

house. She sees the mall lights and decides to head once more

towards them.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE -EVENING

She creeps out of the house and crosses several rows of

houses, then several more, heading towards the neon lights in

the distance.

EXT. FENCE -EVENING

She stops dead in her tracks. Straight ahead, a truly

chilling sight - her kids stuff from the car : Terri's little

anorak, Tammi's socks, mittens, strung along a short stretch

of wire fence.

Her feet start to sink into wet mud. She covers her mouth to

stop herself crying out.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE -EVENING

Suddenly the development is illuminated by a huge

construction light.

EXT. MUD -EVENING

Della ducks down, tries to run. The mud cloys at her feet.

EXT. PLANK BETWEEN TWO HOUSES -EVENING

She steps up onto a plank that stretches between the first

floors of two houses. She starts to cross when she sees their

silhouettes.

EXT./INT. UNFINISHED HOUSE 3 -EVENING

They're searching the house next door.

EXT. PLANK BETWEEN TWO HOUSES - EVENING

She backs up, slips, slides off the plank, falls into the

mud, catches herself on some barbed wire.

The wire drives through her coat and into her right shoulder.

She jerks away but the length of loose barbed wire follows.

She bites her lip to prevent a pained response.

She's caught in its spiral like a trapped animal. She spins

around and physically pulls the wire from her back, tearing

her coat.

She casts the wire away from her. Winces.

INT. UNFINISHED HOUSE 4 (FOUNDATION) -EVENING

She crawls into the foundations of a nearby house, underneath

the floorboards which are lain roughly across to form a first

floor. She huddles in a dark corner. It's very quiet and

cramped. She tries not to move, not to breathe. The smell of

the wet earth underneath makes her feel nauseous. A moment

passes. It feels like an infinity.

She starts to creep along towards a gap in the planks to see

if she can see anything above. Just as she approaches the gap

she hears.

The sound of footsteps above her.

She freezes.

The footsteps make erratic rhythms across the planks.

She silently undoes the catch of the toolbox. Her hands are

shaking. She lifts the lid. She rakes around inside for

tools, comes across several kids toys instead! In shock, she

rakes around some more, trying to find something else,

something more dangerous, anything. To her surprise the only

tools inside are a pathetic little screwdriver and a small

crescent wrench. The kids must have borrowed the other tools

replacing them with the toys. She gives up, closes over the

lid.

Then suddenly:

BOOM

INT. UNFINISHED HOUSE 4 -EVENING

The whole house is illuminated. She looks up to see four

faces looking down at her. Chuckie points the gaze of a

powerful flashlight directly into her eyes.

The beam almost blinds her. She tries to look away but

Chuckie focuses it right in her eyes.

She shrinks back towards the wall. Her mouth feels dry, so

dry. Tomas lifts several planks up and casts them away so

they can see her. She's cornered.

Chuckie then lowers the flashlights direction and sweeps it

voyeuristically down across her body.

The light lingers on her breasts. Huey whistles

appreciatively, picks the game back up from the parking lot.

The light sweeps past Huey's hips. The sound of a zipper. The

light sweeps back up onto Della.

Waves of pain spasm through Della's shoulder.

The boys snigger.

Tomas leans down towards Della. Chuckie moves the flashlight

to illuminate them both. Tomas drains the last dregs from a

bottle of Bud, tosses the empty bottle down into the

foundations. It rolls into the darkness.

Della shudders. She clutches the lug wrench against her coat

behind the tool box and tries to disappear into the wall.

Tomas reaches down and pulls Della up to standing by the coat

collar. He then yanks the coat down over her shoulder. The

white shirt she wears underneath is damp with sweat making

the form of her breasts very clear.

Chuckie keeps the light focused right on her.

Tomas slides his index finger down across Della's neck

towards her breasts.

Della claws at Tomas' face with the nails of her free hand.

He staggers to the side holding his cheek and cursing. Her

chewed nails haven't left any dents, but she stunned him.

The others laugh.

She shrugs the coat back over her shoulders and pulls it

tight across herself, once again clasping the toolbox close

to her side.

He moves towards her, face twisted with hate, arm raised.

Tomas glares at Della, then lowers his arm. Spits on the

ground instead. Turns back to the boys. Chuckie moves

forwards and focuses on Della's box?

Della doesn't answer.

Della still doesn't answer.

Della remains determinedly mute.

Chuckie giggles. Della shivers.

Chuckie holds up her driving licence and examines it.

Chuckie nods to Vinh. Vinh passes his lighter to Chuckie.

Chuckie lights the licence on fire. The plastic burns black

and toxic. The flame annihilates Della's name, her date of

birth, her face. Pieces of plastic unfurl and drift up

through the empty windows and doors of the unfinished house.

Della stares defiantly, fighting back the internal nausea

caused by this symbolically brutal act.

Chuckie maneuvers the light back in her eyes then right back

on his own menacing face. Then, back again on her face. She

becomes disoriented.

Della remains mute, looks away from the beam.

Della tries to swallow but her throat is too dry.

She knows there is nothing that would buy them off and the

knowledge sinks like a stone deep into her gut.

Chuckie follows her face with the beam. She tries to dodge

its glare in her eyes. But he maneuvers it like a

surveillance camera.

His voice takes on a meanness that makes the back of her neck

tingle.

They crowd closer toward her.

Dark forms with eyes glinting. Their voices echoing.

Della all but screams.

Della's brain races.

Her hands move slowly.

She rests the lug wrench in her left palm under the base of

the tool box and with her right hand unsnaps the catch.

She holds the far end of the lid up to shield her right hand

from the beam as she slips it inside the box.

A prayer plays silently across her lips as her fingers feel

the cool steel and shape of the small crescent wrench.

She curls them around its handle and grips tight. A surge of

nervous energy courses through her veins.

He moves towards her.

In a flash, she withdraws the crescent wrench. She cocks her

wrist back and hurls the tool, snaps it just like her daddy

taught her to play baseball.

The wrench flies up and across the house.

With a CRUNCH, it catches Chuckie right in the collar bone,

right side.

He screams. Drops the flashlight. Drops to his knees holding

his throat.

Della snaps the tool box shut and makes a run for it. She

throws herself up onto the first floor and darts between

Tomas and Huey.

Huey lunges for her but trips over a loose plank, lands with

his face down, biting on the plank's edge.

Della catches a peripheral glimpse of Tomas leaping towards

her, but his leading foot slams down instead onto the back of

Huey's neck. Grinds Huey's face into the plank with a hideous

THUD. Huey's neck SNAPS back smiley style. Huey's scream

gurgles into the night. Huey's body falls through the space

in the floorboards landing with a thud in the foundations

below.

Tomas falls away, cursing in horror.

Della makes a run for the doorway. She jumps down onto the

muddy lot and heads off across the development. The darkness

quickly swallows her.

Behind her, Vinh slumps through the house.

Chuckie slides down to be beside Huey in the foundations.

Tomas staggers up to standing.

Vinh moves towards Chuckie who is crouched over Huey.

Tomas approaches.

He pushes Chuckie gently out of the way so he can see.

He stares down at Huey's bloody meshed face. Tomas staggers

backwards and crosses himself.

Chuckie punches Tomas' leg.

Tomas pushes Chuckie backwards.

Chuckie and Tomas stare at each other.

EXT.   WOODS - EVENING

Della runs for her life. She makes straight for the cover of

the trees. She hesitates for just a moment after the first

layer of Pines. It's pitch black beyond. Then she steps in.

She follows her breath into the icy blackness.

Branches and foliage scratch against her face.

She grapples about, looking for hiding places between the

dark shapes and forms. Steps between tree roots and shrubs.

Her eyes begin to adjust. She can now make out the

difference between the clumps of darkness and tell, looking

back, where the edge of the woods begins. A construction

light shines behind like a distant moon.

She pushes between the branches of indistinguishable trees,

some thick and knotted, others slight and brittle. Only the

evergreens still have their foliage.

Looking back constantly to the edge of the trees for a sign

of the boys.

Fear drives her further into the woods towards where the

trees grow even more densely together. Where there just may

be the right place to hide.

She stops for a second to catch her breath.

The handle of the toolbox has chaffed her right palm. She

changes hands.

God, that boy Huey! He really died back there. She heard the

sound of it. The horrific sound of him dying a stupid

pointless death.

It could have been her.

There has to be some way out of this nightmare.

Ahead, a dead tree with spectral branches blocks her path.

She steps around its huge trunk and tangle of roots.

Chuckie's voice drifts towards her.   She ducks down among the

roots.

Her eyes scan the darkness.

No moving shapes nor forms. No sound. No flashlight. Just

shadowy clumps of trees.

Should she stay put or should she run?

Then she sees it. The flashlight weaving through the pines

ahead.

She pushes further in among the roots, tries to make herself

invisible.

The flashlight beam sweeps across the forest floor towards

her. One set of footsteps crunches through the foilage.

She holds still, terrified.

The flashlight pauses on the dead tree, the roots.

Della stops breathing.

Then, the light sweeps past and on into the woods.

She waits until it disappears before stepping out of her

hiding place.

She creeps back in the opposite direction, figuring if

they're in the woods now she should get out.

Her eyes search for the construction light, which indicates

the edge of the wood.

She heads in the direction of the light, painfully aware that

one noisy footfall could alert her pursuers. She steps

between leaves and roots as delicately as a ballet dancer.

The construction light grows closer.

The light abruptly goes out.

She stops, eyes desperately searching the trees.

She resumes in the direction she was headed. Tries to keep

calm.

But the woods are impenetrable. Layers of trees and shrubs,

and then more trees. Deep in the cold dark places there are

patches of left over snow. She's losing her bearings.

EXT. X'D TREES - EVENING

Ahead, the chilling sight of four luminous Xs glowing in the

dark forest almost makes her heart stop. She realizes the

crosses are painted on the trunks of several trees, marking

them for death. She shivers.

EXT. WOODS -EVENING

She backs up, starts off in the opposite direction.

And there it is again. The flashlight sweeping through the

trees in the distance.

She stops, close to screaming, then when the flashlight

disappears, runs off in yet another direction.

She slows to take a breath, notices the butts of several

cigarettes still smoking in the dirt close to her feet.

She trudges on, pushing between the branches, no clue where

she is headed.

The further she treads, the quieter it becomes. So quiet she

can hear her own footfalls and the sound of the trees

breathing.

Then, she spots the light again, in the distance, shining out

over the forest.

Thank God!

She trudges up a slope ahead, clinging onto branches and

shrubs to help pull herself up.

EXT. LEDGE - EVENING

The light grows closer. She climbs up onto a ledge.

A loud noise startles her. It's music. Rap music. Blasting.

Della pushes her way through to the edge of the trees.

Sees....

EXT.   CLEARING - EVENING

The woodland ahead slopes down into a clearing, where a huge

ghetto blaster sits on a pile of felled trees. Young pines

about to become Christmas trees. It's blasting out a hip hop

anthem for a dead homie. A construction light illuminates the

clearing.

A ghostly Vinh, head hung low, moves to the music, bottle of

beer in hand.

Propped up against a tree stump sits the body of Huey, arms

crossed over his torso, hood pulled up to cover his face.

The scene is so surreal that Della is drawn closer. She

creeps along the edge of the trees.

As she moves, she kicks back on some dirt. It tumbles

downhill into the gulch. She freezes.

But nobody notices.

She slips invisibly between the trees and watches as Tomas

enters the clearing.

