MANDALAY ENTERTAINMENT                           January 21, 1997

1202 West Washington Blvd.

Culver City, CA 90232

FADE IN:

MAIN TITLE SEQUENCE -- BLACK

INTERCUT -- QUICK FLASH-FORWARDS

INSIDE A STEAMY SHOWER -- A wet naked woman and man wrapped

around each other in ecstasy -- legs, arms, hair, mouths.

BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then

Moonlight reflects on a vehicle's shiny surface.  FISTS THUD into

flesh.  O.S. -- a man slams of the hood, rebounds away.

BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then

LOVERS -- caught in FREEZE-FRAMES of green neon -- off, on, off,

on -- like a strobe's instant-images -- of gasping, tough sex.

BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then

ON A GLEAMING POOL DECK of black-and-white tile -- two women in

soaked, clinging clothes -- fight -- hands squeeze a throat.

BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then

A SCREAM -- a sickening hollow THWACK -- an arc of blood, two

teeth fall on dark stone.

BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then

GUNSHOTS -- Blood sprays across the glass of a picture frame --

obscures the photo inside.

BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then

THE SURFACE OF A SPARKLING SEA -- a distant emerald island.  A

40-foot sloop APPEARS -- shapes on deck -- we are about to SEE --

BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then

SHARKS -- underwater -- rip something into a bloody cloud.

END MAIN TITLES.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY

A place of money and privilege.  White coral buildings surround

an open yard.  Tile roofs rise among banyan trees and banana

palms, shimmering before a blue blaze of sky.

Beyond the yard is the school's playing field and beyond that the

waters of Biscayne Bay, dappled in sunlight where the sloops of

the school's sailing class bob at their moorings.

For a moment all is quiet.  Then, faintly, the HUM of many

VOICES, rising and falling, LAUGHTER.

The CAMERA PANS to the open windows of a building somewhat larger

than the others.  The SOUNDS grow louder.

INT. BLUE BAY AUDITORIUM - DAY

A hundred high school kids sit before a raised, hardwood stage.

The students are not unlike the campus, radiant, well-tended -- a

veritable sea of adolescent sexuality -- bronze boys who seem to

have just come from the boats or tennis courts -- girls in tight

shorts riding high up shapely thighs, as...

SAM LOMBARDO strolls out onto the stage.  The man is thirtyish,

drop-dead handsome.  Dressed not that differently from the kids,

in an Izod polo shirt, khakis and boat shoes.

His entrance has an effect upon the audience, particularly upon

the girls.

KAREN and JANELLE, 16, pretty blondes, whisper then giggle.

NICOLE, a dark-eyed beauty, 17 but going on 25, watches Sam's

walk, then turns to the girl at her side...

KELLY VAN RYAN, 17, a fully-developed knockout.

Kelly's eyes are locked on Sam.  Nicole has to nudge her.

Sam is at the podium.  He looks out across the audience.  There

are a couple of flirtatious whistles, laughter.  Sam smiles,

silencing them with a wave of his hand.

Cheers, applause.  Sam waits for the kids to settle.

Boos as we FIND...

JIMMY LEACH, 18, grumge look, long hair.  He sits with a clique

of white trashy types, or at least what passes for such at Blue

Bay School.  Jimmy appears a bit more genuine, as does...

SUZlE TOLLER, a boyish brunette, seated nearby, but with just

enough space between her and everyone else to mark her as a

loner.  She studies Sam Lombardo with a dark, sullen stare.

This remark is greeted by a chorus of laughter as we FIND...

KIRK, one of the golden boys, seated with Kelly and Nicole.

Loud laughter.  Sam quiets them again, then turns to the

blackboard, where he begins to write, in big letters -- S-E-X.

The kids start to cheer.

Sam writes another word -- C-R-I-M-E-S.

The cheering fades into silence.

Sam turns to the wings, his hand out to welcome the visitors...

RAY DUQUETTE, mid-thirties, with the lanky build of a light

heavyweight, walks out onto the stage.  He's dressed in a dark

suit, dark hair combed straight back above steel-rimmed glasses.

GLORIA PEREZ walks at his side.  She's a good six inches shorter

than Ray, with a sweet face.  Attractive but no stunner.

About five kids applaud.  Ray takes the podium.

IN THE AUDIENCE

Suzie Toller suddenly gets to her feet.  As she passes behind

Jimmy, we HEAR her VOICE, beneath her breath.

She marches down the aisle and bangs out the rear door..

Ray pauses, a dark look on his face, then goes on...

A moment.

This draws a few laughs from the kids, a couple of thin smiles

from Sam and Gloria.  And none at all from Ray Duquette.

EXT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

The kids change classes.  Sam, Ray and Gloria CROSS the grass.

The kids swarm past.  A pair of girls flash by.

The three adults ENTER an old wooden building.

INT. BUILDING - DAY

The walls are paneled in wood, decorated with framed photographs.

Gloria stops before one of the photos.

ANGLE ON PHOTOGRAPH

An old black-and-white, with that sepia caste harkening back to

another age.

A handsome young man of perhaps 14 stands at the helm of a boat

under sail.  His hair is swept back, his eyes fixed upon an

unseen horizon.  There is something in this boy's pose, in the

line of his jaw, in the clarity of his gaze, as if what he has

fixed upon is the future itself.

When no one answers, she turns to find Sam at her side.  He

stares at the picture, then looks at Gloria.

Gloria does a slow double-take, looking from Sam to the photo and

back again.

Sam and the detectives turn as a professorial-looking guy in a

baggy brown suit (ART MADDOX) arrives on the scene.

Art and the detectives shake hands.

Gloria seems to find this amusing.  Ray stands at her side, looks

at Sam.  Sam feels it, makes eye contact with Ray -- a beat -- at

which point, Ray puts a hand on Gloria's back.

The detectives shake hands once more with San and Art.

Ray opens a door for her.  The detectives pass through it.

Art claps Sam on the shoulder, then walks off down the hallway.

Sam remains near the doors, watching as...

ANGLE ON THE DRIVE LEADING TO THE SCHOOL

Ray and Gloria walk past half a dozen expensive cars -- Range

Rovers, Beamers and Mercedes, to a plain, white Ford Taurus,

which they get into and drive away.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL - LATER

Cheerleaders perform a sensual dance on the porch of a wooden

pagoda.  A rugby team runs drills on the grass, as out on the

bay, six tiny racing sloops tack toward the docks.

ANGLE ON DOCKS

As the sloops enter the narrow channel between the slips one

student from each boat jumps onto the dock where he or she sets

about tying off the boat.

Sam is on one of the boats.  Jimmy Leach is at the rudder.

He watches his class clamber up the docks.  His eye falls upon

the pagoda, the dancing cheerleaders -- Kelly Van Ryan in

work-out tights -- bare arms reaching for the sky.

EXT. SCHOOL DOCKS - SAM & JIMMY - LATER

hosing down boats, stowing sails.  They look up as...

A HUGE POWER BOAT glides past.  The docks rock in its wake.

Sam just laughs at him.

He points to a beautiful triple-masted schooner headed out of the

bay, under sail.

He pulls his eyes from the boat, sets about coiling a line.

He tosses Jimmy the coiled line.  Jimmy's caught off-guard, but

catches it at the last second, then shares the laugh with Sam.

Sam and Jimmy turn to find Kelly Van Ryan at the far end of the

dock.  She's fresh from cheerleader practice, in a white blouse

knotted at the bottom to REVEAL a flat, tanned stomach; open at

the top to REVEAL the swelling of her breasts.  She favors Sam

with a coy smile.

Sam smiles, remembering.

Sam places the coiled hose on top of a locker then starts up the

dock, Jimmy at his side.  Kelly falls in with then.

Sam just looks at her.  She looks back -- big, pleading eyes.

Sam doesn't answer right away.  He looks toward the school.

Sam hesitates, momentarily at a loss, then turns to Jimmy, who

seems to regard Kelly with something akin to physical pain.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY

Sam's Jeep rolls out of the drive, Jimmy's bike in back, meaning

that Jimmy and Kelly are squeezed into the passenger seat, which

is fine with Jimmy.  Kelly's thigh is pressed against his.  His

arm pushes against her breast.  Kelly is not so happy.

As they near the school's entrance, they come upon a beat-to-shit

VW bug -- stalled at a stop sign.

A John Deere tractor mower sits nearby.  A groundsman -- a tall

black guy with a shaved head, waits at the wheel of the bug as...

Suzie Toller -- in black platform shoes, a T-shirt and cutoff

jeans, leans over the engine, fiddling with the car's linkage.

Sam pulls up next to the bug and stops.

Kelly rolls her eyes as Suzie turns to look at them.

Suzie's eyes go cold.  She signals the groundsman, who turns the

key.  The CAR SPLUTTERS to life.  Suzie flashes a smile, then

sticks out her tongue -- which has been pierced by a silver stud.

Suzie gives her the finger.  Sam makes eye contact with Suzie,

offers a sad smile, while putting the Jeep in gear.

Jimmy turns, waving to Suzie as the Jeep pulls away.

EXT. UPSCALE NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Magnificent old mansions occupy five-acre bay-front parcels amid

lush, tropical settings.

Sam's Jeep stops before a pair of gates with the words "VAN RYAN"

woven into their wrought-iron design.  Beyond the gates a long

drive leads toward a huge stone house.  Kelly jumps out, punches

in a code.  The gates swing open.

SANDRA VAN RYAN, Kelly's mom, big, sexy, aggressive, a young 42

in a string bikini, comes out from the side of the house.  When

she sees the Jeep, she starts down the drive.

Kelly waves to Sam, then walks up the drive.  When she sees her

mother coming toward her, her face hardens.

Sam has already hung a U.

Sandra comes through the gate and up to the Jeep.

Jimmy is checking her out.  All eyes.

Sandra looks down her nose at Jimmy.

Sam glances past her, to Kelly, who stands languidly at the front

of the house, watching.

Sandra gives him a hard stare, then marches off toward the house.

CLOSE ON KELLY

still at the door, a cold smile on her face.

EXT. SUBURBAN CUL-DE-SAC - DAY

Neat little stucco houses -- some not so neat -- simmer in

tropical heat.

A BMW Z-3 Roadster stops at the head of the cul-de-sac.  Nicole

is driving.  Kelly sits beside her.

Kelly looks at a pad of paper, nods.

They pass a couple of teenagers playing basketball in a driveway,

a guy mowing his yard.

Nicole does, before one of the not-so-neat houses.  Sam's muddy

Jeep Wrangler is parked in the drive.  Behind that is a red

Mercedes convertible.

INT. SAM'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - SAME

Sam and BARBARA, 28, a lean, beautiful country-clubber roll on

the bed.  Barbara is dressed for tennis.  Sam wears a baggy pair

of khaki shorts.  Barbara struggles to escape.  Sam grabs a leg,

kisses the back of her knee.

He pushes up the little white skirt, kissing her between her

thighs.

Sam keeps at it.  She's starting to weaken.

Barbara starts to giggle.  He's just about got her when...

The DOORBELL RINGS.  Sam lets go.  Barbara sighs.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME

Sam goes to the front door, opens it, to find...

Kelly and Nicole, holding plastic pails full of rags.  The girls

are dressed in Blue Bay High T-shirts, cropped to REVEAL flat

tummies, shorts and running shoes.

Sam looks over the girls -- a small, exasperated smile.

The girls giggle.  Sam smiles.

As they walk away, he is joined by Barbara.  She watches the

girls with an appraising eye.

Barbara laughs at him.

Sam nods.  Another kiss.

EXT. SAM'S DRIVEWAY - SAME

As Barbara goes to her car she sees the girls coming from behind

the garage.  She looks at Sam, standing in his doorway, watching

the girls.  When he sees Barbara looking at him, he shrugs, then

waves.

EXT. FRONT DOOR - SAM'S HOUSE - LATER

Kelly and Nicole, looking very much like the finalists in a wet

T-shirt derby, ring the bell.

Sam answers.  He looks them over.  A couple of houses down he can

see the guy with the mower, dumping grass into a can, watching

the girls, then turning to walk back to his house.

Nicole laughs.

Sam looks at her, as does Nicole.

He hurries from the room.  Kelly turns to Nicole, giving her the

eye, pointing toward the drive.

Kelly nods, a mischievous smile on her face.

INT. SAM'S BEDROOM - SAME

Sam is rummaging through drawers.  He stops when he hears the

SOUND of a CAR.  He goes to the window in time to see Nicole's

BMW headed down his street.

INT. SAM'S LIVING ROOM - SAME

Sam ENTERS the room to find Kelly just inside the doorway, where

the water from her wet clothing has formed little pools on the

linoleum.

Sam looks at the water.  He looks at Kelly.  She moves a step

closer, allowing the door to SWING shut behind her.

EXT. SAM'S NEIGHBORHOOD

A long, slow, Antonioni PAN -- time passes -- the cul-de-sac --

the sparkling lawns -- the kids with the basketball -- a jogger

passing by...

EXT. SAM'S PORCH - LATER

The front door.  The door opens.  Kelly comes out, fast, slamming

the door behind her.  She walks down the drive.

There are tears on her face.  As she hits the street, she begins

to run.

The man with the mower is now seated on his parch, drinking beer.

He watches as the girl runs by.

The teenagers are still playing hoops.  They stop as Kelly jogs

past, sobbing.  They watch as she hits the end of the cul-de-sac

and DISAPPEARS around a corner.

EXT. THE EVERGLADES - DAY

Sam, perched in the pilot's seat of a beat-to-shit old air boat,

rips through the Florida swamp land.

He glides across channels of water, then turns into the tall

grass which whips at the hull of his boat.  Bits and pieces of

debris fly through the air.  Sam smiles, swinging the boat

through a series of wide, sliding turns.

Suddenly he spots something.  He throttles down gliding into a

shallow pool where... A HUGE ALLIGATOR, aware it has been found

out, whips about, stirring up mud, then scuttling OUT OF SIGHT

Sam sits for a moment in the silence.  He pulls a pair of

binoculars from beneath his seat and looks through them.

ANGLE ON HORIZON

All we SEE is a shabby collection of whitewashed buildings

shimmering in the last long light of afternoon.

Sam watches for some time.  At last he lowers the binoculars,

revs up his engine and leaves.

ANGLE ON SAM'S BOAT

as it moves away, as SEEN from water level where...

The old gator has risen once more -- just the eyes -- a cold

primordial intelligence, gazing out, unblinking across the murky

waters of the swamp.

EXT. SAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Sam's Wrangler pulls in next to Barbara's Mercedes.  The Jeep is

muddy once more.  So is Sam.  He gets out.

INT. SAM'S HOUSE - SAME

Sam ENTERS.  The house is dark.

Nothing.  Me CROSSES the living room and starts down the hallway,

where a faint light issues from beneath the bedroom door.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME

Sam opens the door.  He hears the SOUND of RUNNING WATER.  He

walks across the room and into the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM - SAME

Clouded mirrors, a shower stall full of. steam.  Behind the glass

door we SEE an indistinct shape, moving about in the hot water.

Sam opens the shower door.  The steam clears to REVEAL Barbara's

gorgeous athletic body.

She grabs his shirt, pulling him into the shower's flow.  They

kiss.  She pulls his shirt open, loosens his pants.  His clothes

fall away.  Sam pushes her up against the tile wall, hard.  She

holds to his shoulders, nails sinking into his flesh, wrapping

her legs around his hips as...

The water, dark with swamp mud, spirals down the drain.

EXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE - NIGHT

Kelly Van Ryan sits on the dock, looking back toward the huge

stone house, where...

A YELLOW LIGHT burns in one of the upstairs windows.

Kelly has a shotgun laid across her knees.  Slowly, she raises

the gun, pointing at the yellow window.

She holds it there for some time, then, softly, to herself...

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - VAN RYAN ESTATE - NEXT DAY

Sunlight streams through open windows, mingling with loud sighs

of pleasure... Sandra Van Ryan on top of FRANKIE CONDO, a big,

buffed-out Cuban.  They're making love on the bed.  She throws

her head back -- an explosion of hair -- gasps -- an orgasm is

near, as...

A cordless PHONE RINGS on the night table.  They try to ignore

it.  No dice.  Sandra groans, finally pulling away.

She hangs up hard.  Sits on the edge of the bed.

Sandra waves him off.  She pulls on a T-shirt, then grabs up the

phone once more, punching in a number.

INT. SAM'S OFFICE - BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY

Desk, files, a terrarium full of swamp lizards, above which a

photo of the Windward Passage decorates the wall.  There's a

Waterford bowl on the desk -- etched with "Sam Lombardo -- Blue

Bay Educator of the Year."

Sam is working on the computer.  The PHONE RINGS.  He answers.

XNTERCUT - SANDRA/SAM PHONE CONVERSATION

Sandra seated on the bed, one long leg tucked beneath her.

Frankie's eyes go cold when he hears the word "Sam."

In his office, Sam pushes himself away from the computer,

stiffening noticeably.

BOOM -- A SHOTGUN BLASTS outside Sandra's window.  She jumps.

BOOM, BOOM -- more BLASTS.  She jumps up to look outside.

SANDRA'S POV - KELLY

stands at the edge of the bay, launching skeet then blasting them

high above the water.

BACK TO SCENE

She glances at Frankie -- who has heard enough.  He gives her a

long hard look, then rolls from the bed to walk from the room.

Sam remains silent, watching the lizards with their blank,

unblinking eyes.

Sandra laughs.

Sandra pauses to laugh once more.

Sam puts down the phone, looks at it -- a long moment as -- the

barest hint of a smile plays upon his face.

Sandra slams down her phone.  She looks to the bay, to the sleek

racing sloop floating beyond the private dock.

EXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE - DAY

The SHOTGUN BLASTS away.  Kelly pauses to reload.  She catches

sight of...

Sandra, approaching from the main house.

Kelly lets the gun's barrel drift over Sandra, then turns to walk

away.  She moves toward the guest house.  A used-brick cottage

tucked among the gnarled branches and roots of a huge banyan

tree.  Sandra follows.

Kelly looks toward the main house, in time to see...

Frankie walk from the bedroom and dive into the pool.

Kelly turns away, starts for the guest house once more.

INT. GUEST HOUSE - DAY

PAN to REVEAL room -- the gun case, the animal trophies, the

photos -- One of a stately old gentleman in an elaborate wicker

chair, a cane at his side, a bowler on his knee.  Others of Kelly

and a handsome middle-aged man in safari gear, posing with their

rifles above slain wildebeests and bison.

Sandra and Kelly ENTER.  Kelly puts down the shotgun, turns,

tears in her eyes.

Kelly does a three-sixty, like a model on a runway.

She sits on the bed.  Sandra moves to stand over her, angry now.

Kelly goes to one shoulder on the bed, sobbing now.  Her mother

continues to stand over her, suddenly more perplexed than angry.

She pauses as Kelly cries all the harder.

Her voice trails away, as meanwhile Kelly has drawn herself up

into a fetal position on the bed.  The sobbing has stopped but

her shoulders continue to shake.  Sandra sits on the edge of the

bed, reaches over to rub Kelly's back.

Kelly shakes her head, no.

Her mother looks at her, clearly at a loss.  At last she stands.

She is headed out of the room when Kelly says something, but the

words are indistinct, as her fists are pressed against her mouth.

There is a long beat as Kelly collects herself.  She stares at

the wall, her eyes filled with tears, but when she speaks she

enunciates each word.

Sandra looks as if she has been struck.

Sandra moves over to the bed, sits once more.

Kelly begins to cry.  Sandra pulls her upright, cradling her in

her arms, eyes on fire.

EXT. BLUE BAY POLICE STATION - DAY

An old Spanish-style building sits before a neat square of grass.

INT. STATION HOUSE - INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Sandra slams a fist on the conference table.

Kelly is seated between her mother and her mother's attorney, TOM

BAXTER.  Baxter sports an Italian suit and a lethal Alexander

Haig look.

Seated across from these three are Ray, Gloria and BRYCE HUNTER,

the local D.A.

Silence follows Sandra's outburst.  Baxter reaches to squeeze

Sandra's shoulder.  Kelly puts her face in her hands.

Ray and Gloria exchange looks.  Gloria in particular looks

slightly stunned.

Baxter nods, yes.  Sandra looks at Kelly.

Kelly nods.

Tom Baxter takes her by the arm as Ray CROSSES the room to open

the door.  Bryce Hunter walks out with then.

Gloria takes a seat closer to Kelly.  When she speaks, she is

very calm and quiet.

She waits as Ray sets up a camera on a tripod.

Kelly shrugs.

Kelly nods.

CLOSE ON VIDEO MONITOR - KELLY'S STATEMENT

PULL BACK to REVEAL...

INT. STATION HOUSE - DAY

Ray, Gloria and Bryce Hunter stand at one end of the long

conference table, watching the playback of Kelly's tape.

BACK TO VIDEOTAPE

Kelly nods, starts to break down again, then holds it off.

The tape is paused -- FREEZES on Kelly's face ON SCREEN.

BACK TO RAY, GLORIA & HUNTER

Ray and Gloria stare at the screen.

Ray and Hunter look at her.

Hunter puts his hands together, thinking.  He looks from Ray to

Gloria, than back to Ray.

Gloria and Ray watch as Hunter gets up and leaves the room.

Ray looks at the screen.

Ray thinks this over.  He continues to study the screen.

CLOSE ON SCREEN - KELLY'S FACE

BEGIN MONTAGE - INVESTIGATION

EXT. CUL-DE-SAC - DAY

Ray takes notes, talks with neighbors, kids, lawn mower man.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Gloria talks with students -- Jimmy, Nicole, others.

INT. SAM'S OFFICE - DAY

Sam sits at his desk, toying with a pencil.  He watches students

pass -- no smiles, no waves, an occasional dark look.

Through the press of students Sam sees Art at the door of his

office.  The two men look at one another.  At which point...

Gloria, followed by Ray, steps INTO SCENE.  The detectives shake

hands with Art.  As Art turns to close the door, Sam falls within

his line of vision.  Art looks away.  The door swings shut.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL DOCKS - LATER

The sky has begun to color.  Art Maddox stands on the grass at

the end of the channel separating the slips, watching as...

A lone sailboat tacks toward the school.

ANGLE ON BOAT - SAM & JIMMY

Sam drops his sail, leaving himself just enough momentum to

cruise expertly into the little channel then into the slip.

Art watches as Jimmy jumps from the boat, ties it off.

Jimmy hesitates, he wants to say something.  Sam waves him off.

Jimmy gives Art a hard look and heads for the grass.

Art studies the dock between his feet.

Art shakes his head.

EXT. STRIP MALL - DAY

Typical of its kind -- a Blockbuster Video, a 7-Eleven, half a

dozen small businesses, one of which, sandwiched between a donut

shop and the Mongolian Beef Bowl, bears the sign:  "KEN BOWDEN --

ATTORNEY AT LAW."

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Sam sits in a cramped waiting room, leafing through a magazine.

An attractive young SECRETARY sits a few feet away, behind her

desk.  Her PHONE RINGS.  She picks it up, then turns to Sam,

favoring him with a flirtatious smile.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Ken Bowden, a slightly oily-looking young man in a nice suit and

a large, padded neck brace, rises to shake Sam's hand.

Sam nods.

Ken holds his hands out in front of his chest.

Sam forces a smile.

Ken stops, puts on a serious face.

Sam looks at him.  He starts to speak, then checks himself.

Ken puts a hand to his throat, as if aware of the brace for the

first time.

He takes the brace off, tossing it on his desk.

Ken smiles.  Sam looks slightly ill.

EXT. A BLUE HAY RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Trendy nouveau.  A valet parks Sam's Jeep.

INT. RESTAURLNT - SAME

Sam walks across a tiled entry.  He looks tired, but smiles at

the maitre d'.

GEORGE looks stiff, maybe a little nervous.  Sam picks up on it.

He scans the room...

ANGLE ON ROOM

Dimly-lit, crowded, but we PICK OUT Barbara, stunning in a

delicate white sun dress, tanned arms resting upon a table.

Sam starts toward her.  George reaches out to touch his arm.

Sam ignores him, threading his way among the people at a lavish

bar, then stopping short as he sees who Barbara is with -- her

father, Tom Baxter.

Tom Baxter sees Sam, gets to his feet.

Sam steps to one side, makes eye contact with Barbara.

Barbara has tears in her eyes.  She looks at Sam, then shakes her

head, looking away.

The two men square off, but already we can SEE Georgie, trailed

by a pair of beefy characters in blue blazers making their way

across the room.

Sam sees them too.  He takes a final look at Barbara.  When she

refuses to meet his eye, he pushes past Baxter, through the crowd

and out of the restaurant.

EXT. AN EVERGLADES ROADHOUSE - NIGHT

Red neon identifies it as Jim's Recovery Room.  A handful of

trucks sit in a dirt parking lot, Sam's Jeep among them.

INT. ROADHOUSE - NIGHT

The air is thick with smoke.  Locals shoot pool.  The walls are

decorated with dusty fishing nets and inflated blowfish.

An aging BARMAID -- good-looking -- once, runs a rag around a

pitcher, looks down the bar, smiles, finding...

Sam, alone, awaiting service.

EXT. ROADHOUSE - LATER

Sam walks outside.  He stands in the red glow of neon light,

looking toward the road... On the opposite side of which...

... sits a sorry little collection of whitewashed stucco

bungalows, identified by a green neon sign as the Glades Motel.

Beyond the motel are the Everglades, a great expanse of darkness.

Sam stares at the motel.  At last he gets in his Jeep.  As he

EXITS the lot, a second pair of headlights flashes on.

EXT. EVERGLADES - NIGHT

A deserted two-lane road cuts through the swamp.  Trees bearded

with moss appear as ghostly shapes in the lights of Sam's Jeep.

INT./EXT. SAM'S JEEP - MOVING - SAME

San drives -- a tired face.  Soft MUSIC on the RADIO.

Something APPEARS in the road, caught for a moment in the

headlights.  Sam swerves, whirls his head around, sees...

A GATOR sliding of the shoulder and into the murky water.

Sam lets out some air, relaxing a bit, then catches sight of

something else -- Headlights finding reflection in his rearview

mirror, coming fast.  Sam watches as the lights get closer.  He

looks back to the road -- an approaching curve...

Sam is into the curve when the lights catch him.  A black Range

Rover moves out to pass, then turns suddenly into Sam's lane,

cutting him off.

It happens quickly.  Sam swerves to avoid hitting the larger car,

but the road affords little margin for error.

The JEEP slides across a narrow shoulder, then plummets down a

steep embankment, CRASHING through cattails, rolling over to SLAM

BACK DOWN on its tires in a swampy gulch.

Sam slumps back from the steering wheel.  Somewhere over his head

he can see headlights shining into the trees.

He hears a CAR DOOR SLAM, the SOUNDS of someone scrambling down

the embankment.

Sam tries to get out of his seat harness.  Someone is

approaching, splashing through the muck.  Suddenly a hand reaches

through the broken driver's window, helping him.

The hands get him loose.  Sam stumbles from the car.

He looks up to find -- Frankie Condo, looming over him.

He grabs Sam, pulling him OUT OF FRAME.  What we are left with is

the SOUND of FISTS THUDDING INTO FLESH -- then Sam, hitting the

hood of his Jeep, slumping down into the muck.

Frankie is breathing hard.  We HEAR him SLOGGING back up the

embankment.  We HEAR a DOOR SLAM, the RANGE ROVER driving away,

leaving only darkness, and the EERIE SOUNDS of the swamp.

EXT. THE STRIP MALL - DAY

Dazzling light.  Sam's smashed-up Jeep is parked before Ken

Bowden's office, next door to the Mongolian Beef Bowl.

INT. BEEF BOWL - SAME

Sam and Ken eye one another over a green plastic table -- Ken

with his neck brace, Sam with a bruised face.

He moves a hand to his face.

He pauses to look at Ken Bowden.

San sighs, slumps back in his plastic seat.

Ken reaches into his briefcase.  He pulls out some papers, tosses

them on the table.  Sam picks one up, starts to read.

INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Everyone's looking a little tired, with the possible exception of

Ray.  At this moment he sits back in his chair, staring at Sam.

Ken pats him on the arm.  When Sam speaks again, it is in a

calmer voice, calm but tired.

There is a moment of silence in the room.

He is cut short as Sam shoves his chair back from the table.

Sam and Ray stare at one another.  Ken puts a hand on his

client's arm.

Ken stands up.  He walks to the two-way mirror set in one wall,

rapping on the glass with his knuckles.

INT. OPPOSITE SIDE MIRROR ROOM - HUNTER

stares at Ken's face, about a foot away.  Ken of course can't see

him.  Hunter gives him the finger.

INT. INTERVIEW ROOM - KEN

stares into the mirror, waiting.

Ken opens the door.  Sam turns back to Ray and Gloria.

As Ken and Sam leave, Ray and Gloria are joined by Bryce Hunter.

Ray shrugs.

At which point, a COP APPEARS in the doorway.

He starts away, then stops.

Hunter bangs out of the room.  Gloria slumps in a chair, tired,

disgusted.

Ray is paged by his BEEPER.  He pulls it off his belt, looks at

the number.

Ray leaves.  Gloria pulls a cigarette from her purse and lights

up, rests her head back in the chair, blowing smoke at the

ceiling.

INT. INTERVIEW ROOM - LATER

Gloria is grinding out the butt as Ray walks back in.  There is

something in the way he carries himself, some sense of urgency.

EXT./INT. DETECTIVES' CAR - MOVING - DAY

Ray and Gloria drive through the Everglades, past marshlands

punctuated by thick stands of melaluca trees.

Ray nods.

Gloria just looks at him.  Ray stares into the dusty light of an

approaching sunset.  At last he slows, turning off the highway

and onto a narrow dirt road.

A sign pokes out from the tall grass -- "SMILIN' JACK'S FISH

CAMP."

The Taurus bounces along the washboard road.

They are driving now at the edge of a canal.

Ray gives her a look.  Gloria shrugs.

They pass a sagging chain-link fence, entering a quarter-mile run

of shabby trailers and cheap shacks.

The squalor of the buildings is seat in contrast to the beauty of

the Glades where the waters have gone to the color of polished

brass beneath an immense, darkening sky.

Ray parks before a ramshackle building covered in vines and

peeling paint.  A sign reads:  "NIGHT CRAWLERS $1 A BUCKET."  The

jawbones of numerous gators hang beneath the eaves.

As they get out of the car, something catches Gloria's eye --

along the bank of the canal...

ANGLE ON BANK

where a tall man (WALTER) with long white hair and tattooed arms

kneels inside a pen, slapping a huge gator on its snout.  The

reptile lifts its upper body, hissing, opening its jaws.

Walter takes a stick from his hip pocket, passing it through the

gator's mouth.  The jaws snap shut, incredibly fast, with a

hollow snapping sound.

Gloria jumps instinctively, then watches, aghast, as Walter slaps

the creature once more.  This time moving round to the front of

the gator, sticking halt his arm inside its mouth.

Gloria starts, then turns to find a woman (RUBY) has walked up

beside her.  The woman is in her sixties.  She's dressed in

polyester.  Her hair is piled on top of her head -- too dark to

be anything but a dye job.  A cigarette bobs from her lips.

Before Gloria can respond, Ray steps up behind than.

Ray and the old lady look at each other.

Ruby looks toward the store.

She watches as the detectives CROSS the road, then calls to them

as they start up the steps.

Gloria turns, surprised.  Ray gives the woman a long, cold stare,

then opens the door for Gloria.

INT. CAMP STORE - SAME

It's dark inside.  The main light source is a tiny, beat-up

black-and-white TV.

Two elderly women in colored bouffant hairdos sit on a ratty old

couch watching reruns of "Family Feud."  They look up as Ray and

Gloria ENTER then EXIT through a door in the back.

INT. SUZIE'S ROOM - SAME

Black walls.  Cheap bookshelves, filled to overflowing.  A wire

strung with dismembered doll parts runs the length of the room.

Suzie is propped on a ratty futon, an open book on her stomach,

her thin, white arms crossed behind her head.

Ray manages a thin smile.

Gloria puts out a hand.  Suzie looks at it, puts out a hand of

her own.

As the women shake, Gloria looks at the book on Suzie's stomach,

turning her head as if to read the title.

Suzie takes a cigarette from a pack at her side, lights up, blows

smoke at the ceiling.

Ray and Gloria exchange looks.

Ray shrugs.

Suzie lets out her breath.  She rests her head against the wall.

INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Suzie, Gloria and Hunter sit at the conference table.  Ray

operates the video cam.

Suzie stares at the camera.  She's lost the cockiness she had on

her own turf.  She looks small, white and frail in the sterile

room, surrounded by the detectives.

Gloria glares at Hunter, shakes her head.

Suzie huddles in her skinny arms, studying the detectives.

She stands up.

Gloria gets to her feet as well; she tries to put an arm around

Suzie.  The girl jumps back as if she has been shocked.

Gloria's hands fall to her sides.

Suzie heads for the door.

The detectives exchange looks.

At which point, Suzie stops, turns to face the room.

THE SLIDING BAR DOOR

of a jail SLAMS shut on Sam Lombardo.  He turns to...

TWO menacing PRISONERS.

COURT TV IMAGE

The graphic -- "Prime Time Justice" -- then the anchor --

CYNTHIA.

PULL BACK to REVEAL...

INT. ART'S OFFICE, BLUE BAY HIGH - DAY

Art, students, faculty members huddle around the TV.

EXT. COURTHOUSE - DAY

Video crews surround a limo as Sandra and Kelly EMERGE.

Tom Baxter and Barbara jostle up the steps.

Suzie, in the company of Ruby and Walter, pushes past the video

crews.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Bryce Hunter confers with his team.

Ken in his neck brace, ENTERS with Sam and a bailiff.  Sam wears

a suit.  Re's clean-shaven, recovered from the car wreck and

beating.  Still, there is a weariness about him we have not seen

before.  He makes eye contact with Sandra -- a cold stare.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hunter in front of the jury.

CLOSE ON SAM

The dark, seductive eyes.

INT. COURTHOUSE - WITNESS WAITING ROOM - DAY

Suzie, nervous, paces the floor, stops, lights a cigarette.

The other witnesses sit in chairs along the wail -- the lawn

mower man, cul-de-sac kids, Barbara, Nicole, as...

IN THE COURTROOM

Kelly Van Ryan sits in the witness box, dabbing her eyes with a

handkerchief while Bryce Hunter stands before her.  The room is

silent, the spectators riveted on the scene.

Kelly shakes her head, no.

Kelly looks defiantly at the courtroom.

WITNESS WAITING ROOM - SAME - SUZIE

still pacing, as Ray and Gloria ENTER the room.

Suzie shoots them a nervous glance, drops her cigarette, bends to

pick it up, burns her fingers, drops it again.  She curses

beneath her breath, wrapping her fingers about her shoulders.

Ray and Gloria watch her, exchange glances.  Gloria picks up

Suzie's cigarette for her, puts it out in an ashtray.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

PANNING the spectators, we SEE Sandra, Baxter, Ray, Gloria.

Hunter is on the witness stand.

Suzie is in the box.  She looks pale, even more nervous.

Chuckling in the courtroom.  The JUDGE glares, silencing it.

Suzie glances at Sam, hesitates.

Suzie looks around, as if for help.  The spectators stir.

Ray rubs his eyes.  Gloria's are closed.

Suzie looks at Sam once more.

Tom Baxter rises to his feet.  The Judge raises a hand, motioning

him to sit back down.

QUICK CUTS

Hunter slumps back against the prosecution table.

Sandra's hand covers her mouth.  Baxter mumbles a curse.

Sam hangs his head in relief.  Ken grins above his neck brace.

COURTROOM LOBBY

The press corps scrambles for cameras.

BLUE BAY HIGS

Teachers, students, Art, Jimmy -- crammed around the TV.

IN THE COURTROOM

Bryce Hunter and Tom Baxter are both on their feet, trying to

make themselves heard above the din.

The Judge turns a cold eye on Suzie.

Sam looks up, confused.

Gasps in the court as --

Kelly BURSTS from the witness waiting room, trailed by a bailiff.

She grabs the first thing she can get her hands on -- a glass of

water from one of the tables and hurls it toward the witness

stand before the bailiff can pin her arms against her sides.

INT. COURTHOUSE LOBBY - LATER

A mob scene.  Video crews are herded to one side by bailiffs as

Sandra and Baxter, with Kelly in tow, move toward a side door.

Sam and Ken round a corner, followed by Ray and Gloria who walk

on either side of Suzie.

Kelly sees them.  She makes a run at Suzie.  For a moment the

girls shove and kick but Ray and Gloria are between them in a

hurry, pulling then apart as Baxter arrives to take charge of

Kelly, pulling her toward the door.

Ruby and Walter arrive now too.  Suzie runs to them and they lead

her through the crowd, Walter pushing people aside with his long,

tattooed arms.

Gloria heaves a sigh.  Ray pushes a hand through his hair, then

turns to find Sam looking at him.  Most of the press have run off

to follow the girls -- looking for more action.  It is a quiet

moment.  The two men lock eyes.

Ray just looks at him -- a hard stare.

EXT./INT. KEN'S T-BIRD - DAY

top down, speeds on a highway, banana palms on one side, the blue

Atlantic on the other.

Wind buffets Ken and Sam -- who has a dazed look.

Ken pauses to thump the wheel with the butt of his hand.

At which point Ken spots something up ahead.  His smile broadens.

He swerves into the other lane, tooting his horn, waving, as...

The T-bird draws even with a sleek black limo.

He pulls off his neck brace, dangles it in front of Sam's face,

then tosses it out the window.

INT. LIMO - MOVING - SAME

Tom Baxter watches as the T-bird rockets off into the distance, a

white piece of foam rubber bouncing across the road in its wake.

A console TV is on -- news of the courthouse chaos.

Sandra is next to Baxter.  Kelly is on the opposite bench seat.

Sandra glares at him.

Sandra concentrates on the TV.

Sandra stares from the window.  At last she turns to Kelly.

Kelly seems to give this a moment's thought, then, smiling.

EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY

Sam cruises slowly across the water in his junked-out air boat.

He kills the engine, allowing the craft to glide to a stop.

He's close to where he found the big gator -- the same shabby

collection of whitewashed buildings we now RECOGNIZE as the

Glades Motel, shimmers in the distance.

Sam leans back, enjoying the silence.  He reaches into a cooler,

takes out a beer, opens it, takes a drink, then pulls something

else from the cooler --

-- a bundle of white butcher's paper.  Sam opens the paper, takes

out raw meat -- something disgusting to look at -- big red turkey

necks, maybe, which he tosses into the water.

ANGLE ON WATER

as the meat drifts down -- then, a sudden boiling, as -- quick as

the strike of a snake -- the huge gator EMERGES, jaws wide, to

snap up the morsel before slipping beneath the surface once mare.

INT. LAW OFFICE - DAY

Ken's Secretary opens the inner office door for Baxter.

Ken rises from a desk to greet him.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY

A hot morning in June.  Shadows angle across the campus.

Students line up at the old wooden pagoda, picking up caps and

gowns.  A few turn, surprised to see...

SAM LOMBARDO cross the parking lot, ENTERS a building.

INT. ART'S OFFICE - ART

working at his desk.  Sam's terrarium is behind him, his

"Educator of the Year" Waterford bowl, a storage box of files.

Art looks up at a KNOCK on the DOOR.  Sam walks into the room.

It is a slightly awkward moment.

The two men smile, breaking the tension.

Sam waves him off.

Art stands up.  The two men shake hands.

OUTSIDE GUIDANCE OFFICE

Sam comes out, then stops suddenly.

Kelly waits for him.  Kirk and Nicole are with her.  A long

moment.

Art APPEARS in the door behind Sam.  Kelly cones closer.

Kirk tries to take Kelly's arm.  She jerks away, swings at Sam.

He ducks, dropping the Waterford BOWL, which SHATTERS upon the

floor.

Kirk bear-hugs Kelly.  She throws a notebook at Sam.

She starts crying.  Kirk and Nicole drag her away as a crowd

gathers.

Sam, shaken, kneels over the broken crystal.  Art bends to help

him pick up the pieces.

EXT. STRIP MALL - NIGHT

Sam's Jeep is parked next to the T-bird and Jaguar.

INT. KEN'S OFFICE - SAME

Baxter, Ken, Sandra, Frankie stand watching, as Sam signs papers.

At last Sam looks up, faces Sandra -- not a happy moment.

Sandra gives him a long, hard stare, then walks from the room.

Frankie prepares to follow her, then stops, looks at Sam.

Sam just looks at him.  The big man leaves.  Baxter closes his

briefcase.

Baxter stops, gives him a cold look, then a surprising smile.

He EXITS.  Ken goes apeshit -- whoops, dances around the desk,

drops into his chair, holds up the documents.

Sam watches, smiling, finally.

Both men stand, they shake hands.  Ken claps him on the arm.

EXT. EVERGLADES - NIGHT

Moonlit fog -- the vast swamp.

EXT. GLADES MOTEL - NIGHT

It's late.  A neon palm tree flashes across an empty lot as...

Sam's Jeep pulls in out of the night, parks before its bungalow.

Sam gets out, lifts his storage box of files from the rear.

INT. BUNGALOW - NIGHT

The neon's green light slashes across the dark walls through old

Venetian blinds.

Sam ENTERS, puts the file box on the floor.  Arches a sore back.

He reaches for a bedside lamp, stops, listens, decides it's

nothing, reaches again for the lamp, stops again, listening...

BZZZZZ -- the high-pitched WHINE of a MOSQUITO.  Then more -- a

flurry of BZZZZZZZZS

Sam frowns, sees...

A cloud of mosquitoes circling him.

He checks the front windows -- closed.  He goes around the bed.

The slightly ajar bathroom door with full-length mirror comes up

on his right.  Ahead is a rear window -- wide open.

Sam stops fast.

Thinks.  Lets out a breath.

He steps to the window.  He looks down --

Muddy footprints.

Sam freezes.  He whirls around --

A sudden green FACE APPEARS in the big mirror -- like a nightmare

image -- lit by the neon flash, then DISAPPEARS.

Sam jumps back.

The neon green face flashes again in the mirror -- DISAPPEARS.

Now the bathroom door slowly opens all the way.

Sam backs up, hits the wall.

Kelly Van Ryan steps out of the bathroom, a long object held at

her side, wrapped in a towel.

Sam tries to breathe, manages a nod.

Kelly prods him with the concealed object.

Kelly raises the abject covered by the towel, aims it at Sam.

A moment -- then she yanks the towel away to REVEAL --

--  a two-foot-long novelty penis with giant balls.  Her hand

grips the acrylic scrotum like the butt of a gun.

She screams with joy, vaults into his arms, wraps those perfect

thighs around him.  The dildo goes flying.  They fall on the bed.

She's all over him now -- tongue kisses.

He kisses her, finally gets her to sit, straddling him.

She kisses him again, more passionately now.  He gets into it,

tears her blouse open, putting his tongue to her breasts.

A SHADOW moves on the wall, looming above them.  Sam sees it, his

eyes widen.  He tries to sit up, as...

BANG! -- an EXPLOSION.  Sam jumps, knocks Kelly to his side.

A champagne cork hits the ceiling.

Suzie Toller stands over the bed with a foaming champagne bottle.

Kelly screams in joy again.

The girls put on mock serious expressions.

Kelly grabs the champagne, takes a long gulp, pours some on her

breasts as she straddles Sam once more, inviting him to lick them

clean.

She has begun to move like a lap dancer, inviting him to take her

breasts in his mouth, putting a hand to his crotch...

Sam gives up, lays back as Kelly undoes his pants, then moves to

get him inside her.

Suzie watches.  She takes another drink, then tosses the bottle,

pulling off her top, REVEALING her small, white breasts, a couple

of tattoos, a pierced nipple.  She slips behind Kelly, fondling

Kelly's breasts as Sam arches beneath them both -- all of them

totally into it now, losing themselves in the sex...

INT. DETECTIVZS' ROOM, BLUE BAY POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The room is dark and empty, with the exception of a single desk

lamp, by which halo we find...

Ray Duquette, in an aloha shirt, waiting as his computer's

printer finishes a job, as suddenly...

... a new light rushes into the room.  Ray turns to find Gloria

standing in the doorway.  He stops as his printer finishes the

job.  He pulls out the paper, looks at it, smiles.  Gloria walks

to his desk.

Ray nods.

Ray gives her a long look.  Gloria waits a moment, shrugs.

Gloria just looks at him, puzzled.

It is quiet in the office, save for the soft BUZZ of Ray's

COMPUTER.

Gloria gives this a moment's thought.

He passes the printout to Gloria.  She looks at it, thinking.

Gloria looks over Lombardo's financial once more, tosses it on

the desk, then studies Ray -- long beat.

Gloria looks at him a long moment.

EXT. A BANK, BLUE BAY - DAY

Sam walks down the steps, gets into his Jeep, and drives away.

Across the street -- the white Taurus -- Ray and Gloria watch.

EXT. YACHT BROKERAGE - DAY

Sam comes out, rounds a corner and is gone.

Ray Duquette steps INTO FRAME, turns into the brokerage.  The

door swings shut behind him.

INT. SWIMMING POOL, BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY

Girls in tank suits finish laps, towel off.  As the girls begin

to walk toward the lockers, they encounter...

Ray Duquette, threading his way among the girls, his eye on...

Kelly, alone on the deck, still dripping -- a Botticelli vision.

Kelly, startled, turns to find Ray walking toward her across the

deck.  She snatches a towel from one of the racing platforms and

begins to dry herself, wrapping the towel around her.

Ray gives her a cold smile.

This appears to give her pause, a moment of hesitation.

Kelly looks around the pool area.  A number of girls are watching

from a corner of the deck, but no one is close enough to hear.

Kelly starts to walk away.  Ray cuts her off.

She moves around him and walks calmly away.

Kelly continues to walk, her face giving nothing away, as Ray's

WORDS ECHO over the pool.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL PARKING LOT - LONG SHOT - LATER

Only a few cars left -- one of them Suzie's old VW bug, at the

side of which Kelly and Suzie engage in heated conversation.

CLOSER - SUZIE

paces around Kelly.

Kelly tries to take her by the arm.  Suzie jerks away.

Kelly looks around the lot.  She takes Suzie by the arm once

more, this time more firmly, pulling Suzie to her.

PULL BACK to REVEAL -- in the distance -- the white Ford Taurus

at the side of the road leading to the school.

The car is pulled just far enough off the road to be mostly

hidden among pampas grass and oleander, but angled in such a way

as to afford a view of the two girls now hugging in the lot.

EXT. SMILIN' JACK'S FISH CAMP - NIGHT

Suzie wanders along the canal, smoking a joint.  At her back a

few faint lights flicker here and there in the windows of

trailers.  She walks down to the little dock, sits on a rail,

takes another hit.

Suzie freezes, holds back her exhale, looking around...

A shadow stirs in one of the skiffs tied to the dock.  A man

stands, walks up the couple of wooden stairs.  The light from a

trailer across the road glances off steel-rimmed glasses as Ray

Duquette steps onto the dock.

Suzie gags on the smoke in her lungs, coughs.  She squeezes the

lit roach into her palm, then tosses it into the canal.

Ray just laughs at her.

She catches herself, falters.

Ray laughs once more.

He takes a sheet of paper from his coat.

Suzie looks over the paper.

Suzie thrusts the paper back at Ray.

Ray smiles at her.  He moves up close.

Suzie tries to back away.  She bumps against the rail.  Ray

reaches out, takes her hand in both of his.

Suzie looks scared, in a way she hasn't before.  When she speaks

her voice is scarcely above a whisper.

The smile fades, as if he's thinking about something, still

holding her hand, rubbing it with his fingers.

He looks into Suzie's eyes, slowly opening her hand to REVEAL the

burn mark on her palm.

He holds her hand a moment longer, then drops it.  He goes back

down he steps to the little skiff.  An outboard MOTOR STARTS in

the night.

INT. SUZIE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Suzie cones in fast, grabs the phone, punches out a number.

EXT./INT. RAY'S PICKUP - NIGHT

parked behind some cottonwoods in a small launch area where the

highway crosses both the canal and the road to the fish camp.

The skiff has been shoved into the bed.  Ray sits at the wheel.

He removes his glasses, wipes his face with a handkerchief, then

starts at the uneven 50UNDS of a tired ENGINE, looks up to see...

HEADLIGHTS

Suzie's VW bouncing along the dirt road, turning onto the

highway.

RAY'S TRUCK - RAY

watching, then starting his truck and pulling out onto the

highway, following the tiny red lights of Suzie's bug.

SXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE - MAIN GATE - NIGHT

Suzie's VW idles.  She leans out the window, talks to the

intercom, the gate opens.  The VW ENTERS.  The gate closes.

Ray's pickup drives past.  He drives to a big lot where one of

the mansions has been torn down.  He drives up onto the dirt,

keeps going, right down to the water's edge where he pulls his

little skiff out of the back once more.

He walks back to the truck, pulls off his sport coat, hangs a

Hi-8 video camera over his shoulder and wades out into the calm

waters of the bay, pushing the skiff, then climbing in.

EXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE, REAR OF MAIN HOUSE - NIGHT

Suzie follows Kelly past the pool, which is all lit~up, and on

toward the jacuzzi.  The whole deck is tiled in black-and-white.

Kelly's in a bikini -- the killer body.  Suzie, the contrast --

pale, skinny, boyish, in a T-shirt and cutoff jeans.  They

argue -- we CANNOT HEAR.

EXT. THE BAY - SAME

Ray has arrived near the docks.  He has killed his engine,

maneuvering here with a single oar.  He ties the skiff off behind

the Jonathan, then climbs to the dock, moving around the guest

house and coming close to the pool.  He takes a position behind

the cabanas, readies his camera.

EXT. POOL AREA - SAME

Kelly and Suzie continue their argument in front of the jacuzzi.

A cordless PHONE RINGS on the patio chair.  Kelly and Suzie are

startled by it.  Kelly answers.

INT. SAM'S BUNGALOW - NIGHT

The bedside lamp is on.  Sam is on the phone.

EXT. JACUZZI - NIGHT

Kelly glances across the steamy water at Suzie.

NT. SAM'S BUNGALOW - SAME

Sam lies on his bed, waits for Suzie's voice on the line.

EXT. JACUZZI - SAME

The girls stand cheek-to-cheek, the phone between them.

INT. SAM'S BUNGALOW - SAME

EXT. CABANAS - NIGHT

Ray tapes the scene.

The girls still hold the phone.

Suzie says nothing.  Kelly nudges her.

The line goes dead.  Kelly hangs up.  Suzie stares into the

jacuzzi.

Suzie's face goes hard.

Kelly tries to put an arm around her.  Suzie slaps her -- a

mistake -- Kelly's bigger, faster.  She slaps the side of Suzie's

head, then grabs her legs, dumping her on the tile deck.

ON RAY

focusing the camera.

Suzie tries to kick Kelly.

Something changes in Kelly, a scary, calm rage.

She very methodically grabs Suzie's hair, dragging her into the

jacuzzi, holding her under the hot water.

Suzie thrashes, breaks free, gags, arches out of the water, the

wet T-shirt clinging to her small breasts.

Kelly is on her again, slaps her, puts her hands to Suzie's

throat -- violently sexual in her wet bikini.

Kelly slams Suzie back onto the black-and-white tile, gets on top

of her, knees between Suzie's legs, her hands on her throat.

Suzie's skinny shape writhes underneath Kelly on the gleaming

tile.  She gasps for air.  Kelly finally lets go, but remains on

her knees between Suzie's legs, breathing hard.  A moment.  Kelly

touches Suzie's face.

Suzie sobs, takes Kelly's hand.

Suzie runs her lips over Kelly's fingers, then pushes her T-shirt

up, pushing Kelly's hand onto her breast.

Suzie nods, tearing her T-shirt, getting both of Kelly's hands

onto her breasts, then pushing at Kelly's wrists, getting her to

pull at her nipples, hard... Kelly obliges...

Suzie cries out in pain.  Kelly's hands move down to pull off

Suzie's bottoms...

ON RAY

still at it with the video, his face impassive, watching.

As Kelly pulls Suzie back into the jacuzzi, as the girls' hands

slide round the curves of each other's hips, pulling themselves

to each other, as the layers of steam rise to envelope them...

VIDEOTAPE

Kelly and Suzie making love in the jacuzzi.

PULL BACK to REVEAL --

INT. POLICE ROOM - DAY

Gloria, Ray, Hunter watch the tape.  Hunter's seen enough.  He

slams the stop/tape.

Ray stops as Hunter brings the palm of his hand down on the table

a loud SLAP.

Ray walks to the door, jerks it open --

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Sam, angry, sits in the corridor with a uniformed officer.

Hunter sees Sam, rolls his eyes.

Sam lunges at Ray.  The officer and Hunter restrain him.  Gloria

looks on, taken aback by Ray's accusations, Sam's response.

Ray flares, grabs Sam, shoves him against the wall, before they

can be separated once again.

Sam storms from the room, followed by Hunter.  Ray stares after

them, finally he turns, looks at Gloria, collecting himself.

Gloria studies Ray, clearly concerned.

EXT. MALL ENTRANCE - LATE AFTERNOON

Sam EXXTS a building, a large package of wrapped goods beneath

his arm.  He looks toward the parking lot where --

Barbara Baxter stands beside the red Mercedes.  She tips a valet

then starts toward the mall.  She sees San.  Their eyes meet.  A

moment of hesitation, as neither is quite sure what to say.

Sam smiles.  She points to the stuff beneath his arm.

She's kidding, then seems to consider how Sam might take it.

Sam laughs it off.

A moment, she touches his face.  Sam raises a hand to cover hers,

as...

... in b.g., a BLACK RANGE ROVER -- just the roof VISIBLE above

the tops of the other cars, cruises the lot.

INT. RANGE ROVER - KELLY VAN RYAN

seated at the wheel, parks, stares toward the mall entrance.

ANGLE ON ENTRANCE - KELLY'S POV

Sam and Barbara stand in the orange light, hand-in-hand.  Barbara

leans forward, kisses Sam on the lips.

CLOSE ON KELLY

lost in thought, when she is startled by a sudden CACOPHONY of

ENGINE NOISE.  She turns to find...

Suzie's BUG, SPLUTTERING and BELCHING smoke, parks next to her.

Suzie opens the door of the Rover, jumps in.  She's wearing a

black ball cap, armed with a huge straw bag.  As she settles in

the seat, she lets out a long breath.

Kelly makes a face, fans the air.

Suzie laughs, pulls a bottle of Mad Dog 20/20 from the bag.

Suzie takes a big drink.  Kelly shakes her head, looks back

toward the entrance.

ANGLE ON ENTRANCE - KELLY'S POV

empty.  Sam and Barbara are gone.

Kelly continues to stare.

EXT. THE BEACH - NIGHT

The Atlantic rolls before a long stretch of empty sand as the

last red light drains from the sky.

The Range Rover comes down onto the sand, parks.

INT./EXT. RANGE ROVER - SAME

Kelly turns off the engine.  Suzie tokes on a joint, swills the

MD 20/20.  She gazes upon the sea, eyes at half-mast.

Suzie shrugs, gets out.  Kelly gets out with her.  Suzie

staggers.  Kelly circles her with an arm, looks nervously around,

begins leading her down the beach.

She stops walking.  Suzie takes a few more steps then turns to

look at her.

Suzie plops down on the sand, drinks from the bottle.  She

watches Kelly fading into the darkness, mumbles something beneath

her breath, then lies on her back.

SUZIE'S POV - THE NIGHT SKY

The SOUND of CRASHING WAVES.  She rolls to one side, looking down

the beach

Murky blackness.

She tries to focus, sits up.

She stands -- wobbly -- peers down the beach.

A shape EMERGES in the blackness, moving toward her.

The shape gets closer and closer, until...

Sam Lombardo steps up to loom over Suzie.

She takes a step back.

Sam puts a hand on her shoulder.  He carries something in his

other hand -- hard to see on the dark beach.

Suzie steadies herself.  A face APPEARS behind Sam -- Kelly.

Sam takes the bottle from Suzie, looks at it.

He lifts the object in his other hand -- a champagne battle.

Suzie nods.

Kelly nods, starts back, looks once over her shoulder as...

Sam leads Suzie toward a huge rock formation.

They move OUT OF SIGHT.  Kelly continues to walk, back along the

sand toward the cars.

INSERT - A SCREAM

A sickening hollow THWACK -- an arc of blood and two teeth fall

silently on dark stone.

Kelly begins to run, stumbling through the sand to Sam's Jeep,

where she pulls a big roll of clear plastic from behind the

seats.  She stuffs it under her arm, then runs back along the

beach.  As she runs, she can hear them -- more THWACKS, MOANS --

it seems like forever

Sam APPARS before her on the sand.  The champagne bottle swings

loosely at the end of one arm.  it looks shiny now, dripping with

Suzie's blood.

Kelly goes to him.  She looks at the bottle, then throws herself

against him -- a hard kiss.

She kisses him again, her hands moving over his body.  Sam takes

a step back, looks into Kelly's face -- the parted lips, sultry

eyes -- as if seeing her for the first time -- a long beat -- at

which point he turns, heaving the champagne bottle as far as he

can into the black waves.

EXT. RANGE ROVER ON THE SAUD - LATER

Rear hatch open -- overhead light on.

Sam and Kelly drag Suzie's body -- wrapped in the plastic -- to

the rear hatch.  As they heft her inside, the light catches --

SUZIE'S FACE

A mask of blood.

Kelly turns away in disgust.  She goes to the passenger side

door, gets in.

Sam gets in behind the wheel.  For a moment the two of them just

sit there, in the darkness, with the SOUND of the SEA, and their

own BREATHING.  Sam looks at Kelly.

She is focused on the dark Atlantic.

Kelly turns to him -- an anxious face.

EXT. EVERGLADES - NIGHT

Kelly waits by the Rover, swatting mosquitoes.

SLOSHING SOUNDS -- a shape approaches in the dark -- Sam in

waders, muddy, tired, carrying a shovel.

EXT. GALLERIA PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Almost empty of cars.  The Range Rover cruises past Suzie's VW,

circles, comes back.  Sam jumps out, pulls on latex gloves, gets

into the VW and backs it out.

EXT. BUS TERMINAL (MIAMI) - DAY

Almost dawn.  A long parking lot fronts the terminal.  Suzie's VW

arrives, parks, Sam gets out.  He goes to the waiting Range

Rover, gets in and drives away.

EXT. FRONT GATE - VAN RYAN ESTATE - DAY

A THIN STREAM OF MUDDY WATER

flows beneath the gate, down the drive, toward the street.

A HAND touches the water.

PULL BACK to REVEAL the hand as that of Ray Duquette.

EXT. VAN RYAN DRIVEWAY - SAME

Ray kneels, fingers wriggling in the water, then straightens,

looking toward the house where...

On the other side of the gate, Kelly, in a tube-top and tight

shorts, washes mud from the Range Rover.  She looks up, sees...

Ray, drying his hand on a handkerchief, walking up the drive,

arriving at the wrought-iron gates.

Kelly freezes -- not so cool this time.

He grabs the wrought-iron gate -- rattles it -- harder and

harder.

Kelly backs away, frightened.

EXT. SMILIN' JACK'S FISH CAMP - DAY

Gloria and Ray stand in front of the ramshackle wooden building,

talking to Ruby.  Walter sits nearby, sharpening a knife.

Ray nods.  He makes a note in his pad.

Ray turns and walks to the car.  Gloria follows.

INT. CAR - SAME

Ray sits for a moment behind the wheel.

Ray silences her with a look.

Ray starts the car, doesn't answer.

Gloria nods.  She looks toward the camp store where the old lady

can still be SEEN standing on the porch, beneath the jawbones.

EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY

Caps and gowns -- kids and parents on the lawn -- taking photos.

Kelly poses with Sandra.  Tom Baxter aims the camera.

Kelly and Sandra force miserable smiles.  CLICK.

Baxter moves away, greets Nicole and her parents.

Kelly puts some room between her and Sandra.

Sandra shakes her head, walks off.

Kelly turns away, freezes, as she catches sight of --

Ray talking with Jimmy.

EXT. THE BEACH - DAY

Ray and Jimmy walk along the sand, moving in the direction of the

big rocks.  Jimmy wears sagger shorts, a surfer T-shirt.  Ray

wears a suit.  He carries the coat over his shoulder.

Jimmy looks at him, surprised, sees that Ray is serious.  Still,

the idea generates a laugh.

He breaks off as Ray kneels over a big flat rock.  Ray brushes

away some sand, drapes the sport coat over his arm, taking

tweezers and latex gloves from the pockets.

Jimmy moves closer, curious, seeing what Ray sees.

CLOSE ON GLOVED HANDS

as tweezers pick up two teeth from a crevice in the stone.

Ray straightens, holding the teeth in the palm of his hand.

Jimmy stares at the teeth.

Ray takes a couple of bills from his pocket, hands them to Jimmy.

Jimmy looks a little sick, but he takes the money.  He starts

toward the lot.

Ray watches for a moment.  Then calls out to him.

Jimmy looks at him, trying to make sense of what Ray is saying,

clearly disturbed by the implications.  But he asks no more

questions.  He turns, trudging alone back through the sand.

EXT. OCEAN COVE - LATER

THE TEETH go into a plastic bag.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

Black-and-whites, county cars -- police tape across the site.

Ray, Gloria and Hunter watch as DAVE MERRITT, a forensic expert

bags the teeth.  He passes the bag to Ray, then bends to the

rocks where he begins to take a blood sample.

Hunter and Gloria exchange a look.

He holds up the evidence bag containing the teeth.

Ray shakes his head; he turns to Dave, still working.

Ray nods, looks out to sea.

Ray turns to her -- an intense look.

Dave nods.  Hunter stalks off toward his car.  Ray turns to

Gloria.

Gloria looks toward the highway, trying to decide.

EXT. GLADES MOTEL - SUNSET

Sam's Jeep -- a "FOR SALE" sign in the window -- sits in the lot.

Across the road -- Gloria sits in the white Taurus.

EXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE, MAIN GATE - SUNSET

Ray sits in his truck, picks up his cellular, punches in a

number.

Ray hangs up without waiting for a reply.  He turns to the Van

Ryan house, an orange light slanting across its facade.

EXT. GLADES MOTEL - NIGHT

Gloria waits in her car.  She looks toward the motel.

Sam's Jeep is parked before one of the bungalows.  There is a

light on in the room.  We can SEE inside.

Gloria sighs, picks up a pair of binoculars and trains them on

the room.

ANGLE ON ROOM - GLORIA'S POV

Suitcases and boxes are stacked everywhere.  Sam, bare-chested,

in khaki slacks, moves about the room.

CLOSE ON GLORIA

watching Sam, as...

IN THE ROOM

The PHONE has begun to RING.  Sam looks at it until it stops,

then picks it up and dials a number.  Kelly answers.

INTERCUT - KELLY/SAM PHONE CONVERSATION

Kelly is in the guest house, pacing in front of the gun case.

Sam is about to respond, then looks out the window, sees...

ACROSS THE STREET, the white Taurus.

INT. TAURUS - SAME - GLORIA

sees the light go out in Sam's room, lowers her binoculars, sits

for a moment, then begins to write something on a pad.

She's still at it when something KNOCKS at a FENDER.  She looks

up, startled, to find...

Sam in the street, still shirtless, his arms and shoulders

back-lit by the neon light of the Glades Motel.

Sam lets out his breath, shakes his head.

Sam shakes his head once more.

Sam stares at her.

He stops himself, calms down.

Gloria hesitates, looks up at Sam, then puts down the phone and

opens her door.

INT. GLADES MOTEL - SAME

Sam and Gloria walk among the boxes and suitcases.

Sam nods.  He goes to one of his cardboard filing boxes, pulls

out a file, hands it to Gloria.  As she takes it, he goes to the

closet, takes a shirt from a hanger.

Sam shrugs.

Gloria sits on the bed, the file in her hand.  She watches as Sam

pulls on the shirt.

Sam holds her eyes.

Sam is interrupted by the HONKING of a HORN.  He looks outside.

ANGLE ON LOT - SAM'S POV

A taxi waits in the glow of the green neon.

Sam looks down on Gloria, seated on his bed, her skirt short

enough to REVEAL shapely legs.  For a moment the two hold one

another's eyes.

INT. RAY'S TRUCK - NIGHT - LATER

The PHONE RINGS.  Ray picks it up.

INTERCUT - RAY/GLORIA PHONE CONVERSATION

She's still in Sam's room, the file spread across the bed.

Ray clicks off his phone.

EXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE, FRONT GATE - NIGHT

Ray gets out of his car, presses the intercom.

EXT. POOL & JACUZZI - NIGHT

Ray CROSSES the deck, Sandra at his heels.

INT. GUEST HOUSE - SAME

A cap and gown lay strewn on the sofa.

Kelly wears jeans and a bra.  She looks up to see Ray moving

across the tile.  Her eyes go wide, then move to the gun case.

EXT. GUEST HOUSE - SAME

Sandra stands near the jacuzzi, not exactly sure what to do,

watching as...

ANGLE ON GUEST HOUSE - SANDRA'S POV

Ray knocks at the French door.  It swings open.  He steps inside.

A long moment, then VOI?ES, the SOUND of things being knocked

about, BREAKING GLASS.

Sandra starts toward the house then stops at the SOUND of a

single GUNSHOT.

A SECOND GUNSHOT follows, then a THIRD.

The guest house door opens.  Ray stumbles out, his shoulder

bloody, a .357 in his hand.

VIDEOTAPE - RAY'S STATEMENT

We SEE him from the waist up -- a white T-shirt, his shoulder

bandaged, his arm in a sling.  There are red scratch marks on his

face.  His eyes look blankly into the camera.

INTERCUT --

EXT. CARIBBEAN BEACH RESORT - LONG SHOT - DAY

Perfect crescent of sand.  A man in white shorts reclines in a

beach chair, beneath a gaily-colored umbrella, sipping a drink.

VIDEOTAPE - RAY

EXT. BEACH RESORT - CLOSER SHOT - DAY

Sam, in white shorts, looking good, watches a beautiful island

girl in a thong bikini frolic in the surf.

She seems to sense Sam watching, turns toward the beach.  Her

eyes meet Sam's.  She breaks into a beautiful smile.

VIDEOTAPE - RAY

EXT. BEACH RESORT - DAY

Sam and the island girl sit at an outdoor table.  The girl wears

a short, terry cloth robe, Sam the white shorts and a flowered

shirt.  They sip drinks.  Their eyes meet.  Their fingers touch.

VIDEOTAPE - RAY

INT. POLICE ROOM - SAME

A moment of silence, save for the BUZZING of the MACHINE.  A

number of plainclothes police, Hunter and Gloria among them,

watch the tape.

He hangs his head, then looks up, his eyes focusing.

EXT. BOAT HARBOR (CARIBBEAN ISLAND) - DAY

Brilliant sun on turquoise water.  A few boats anchored in a

lagoon.  A quiet place.

Heading out -- a forty-foot sloop, Sam at the helm.

INT. HEARING ROOM - DAY

Gloria, Baxter, a tearful Sandra, sit in seats, watch as --

Ray stands before a panel, A SUIT, A CHIEF in uniform, Hunter.

Ray wears a suit, his hair neatly trimmed.  His arm is no longer

in a sling, but one of his hands is still bandaged.

Ray looks at the floor.

Hunter coughs.  His hands rest on a file -- we SEE the video

cassette inside -- labeled "TOLLER/VAN RYAN -- CONFIDENTIAL."

Sandra chokes back a sob.  She gets to her feet, to be led from

the room by Tom Baxter.

Gloria Perez watches, a sad look in her eye, then turns to look

at Ray.  His back is to her -- the broad shoulders, expensive

suit.  His hands are clasped behind his back.

EXT. BLUE BAY CEMETERY - KELLY'S FUNERAL - DAY

Gloria stands among a considerable number of mourners.  She is

just back from Sandra and Tom Baxter, who, in turn, are just back

from the open grave.

As Gloria watches, Sandra looks off to the side, where something

catches her eye.  Gloria sees her start, then follows her gaze.

ANGLE ON CEMETERY - GLORIA'S POV

On a rise some fifty yards from the Van Ryan plot, two people

stand near an old oak -- Ruby and Walter.

When Gloria looks back at Sandra, it seems to her as if the woman

has slumped against Tom Baxter, who now stares at the two people

on the rise as if, by doing so with sufficient intensity, he

might make them disappear.

Gloria turns to the grave site, her eye lingers on the open

grave, then moves to the huge marker which dominates the Van Ryan

family plot and, in fact, the entire scene.

ANGLE CN MARKER

The angel Gabriel, trumpet in hand, carved in relief upon a huge

obelisk of black marble.  Beneath the angel is a carved scroll

and upon it the words:

"I AM THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE," and below that:  "WILLIAM

TECUMSEH VAN RYAN.  MAY HE REST IN PEACE."

EXT. A BEACH - NIGHT

Sam Lombardo walks along a moonlit lagoon, headed toward a lone

bungalow.

The bungalow is simple, picturesque -- whitewashed walls, a

thatched roof.  A patio opens onto the beach.

EXT. PATIO - SAME

As Sam steps in off the sand, he sees something and stops short.

Wet spots lead toward the bungalow.

Sam listens.  Everything is quiet.

INT. BUNGALOW - SAME

Sam ENTERS in a room lit only by the blue light of a large

aquarium.  He listens once more, hears it -- RUNNING WATER.

He moves down a short hallway, observes the light which spills

from beneath a bedroom door.  He pushes it open, goes inside.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME

He CROSSES the room.

The bathroom door is ajar, the room leaking steam.

INT. BATHROOM - SAME

Sam steps inside, looks at the shower stall -- an indistinct

shape moves there in the steam.

San watches, then jerks open the shower door.  The steam

clears -- REVEALING a tall, athletic body, and now the face --

Ray Duquette, grinning at Sam out of the swirling steam.

San takes a step back.

Ray turns off the water, steps out of the stall, wrapping himself

in a towel.  There's a fresh, raised scar across one shoulder and

Ray winces a little as he tucks the towel about his waist.  He

looks at himself in the mirror, touching the scar.

Sam just looks at him.

Sam shakes his head, walks back into the bedroom.  Ray follows.

Now Ray just looks at Sam, his eyes narrowing.

Ray walks to a dresser where a bottle of champagne sits in a

bucket of ice.  He opens the bottle, fills two glasses.  He hands

one of the glasses to Sam.

He raises his glass in a toast.

Sam looks at it, then raises his glass as well.  Ray smiles.  Sam

doesn't.

Ray shrugs.  The two men's eyes meet.  They touch glasses and

drink.

EXT. SMALL BOAT HARBOR (ISLAND) - DAY

Sam and Ray work on the deck of Sam's sloop, stowing gear,

loading supplies.

The boat's mast shines in the sunlight before a brilliant sky.

Palms sway.  The men work in silence.

EXT. SMILIN' JACK'S FISH CAMP - DAY

Gloria drives up in the white Taurus.  She parks before the

ramshackle old building and the gator pen.

Walter is in the pen.  Ruby stands just outside of it.  She looks

toward the road as Gloria gets out, then back to the pen.

Gloria comes down the bank to stand beside Ruby.  She's just in

time to see the huge old reptile raise itself, hissing, on its

front legs, jaws sprung wide.  The women watch as Walter sticks

his arm into the gator's mouth.

Walter looks at the ladies, picks up the stick and sweeps it

between the gaping jaws, which snap in its wake.

Ruby nods toward the motel, a bitter smile on her face.

Ruby cuts her off with a short laugh.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY

From the surface of the sea -- the emerald island in the

distance.  The bow of the sloop comes INTO FRAME.

On board -- Sam stands in the cockpit, at the helm.  Ray lounges

on the deck.  The boat sails easily before the wind.

Ray cranes his neck to look at the winch.

Ray kneels.  He begins to tighten the winch.

Sam watches him for a moment, then reaches around behind his back

to unhook the short line which holds the boom.

The mainsail catches wind, swinging the boom in a wide arc,

directly at Ray.

Ray looks up, sees it coming just in time to catch it on his arm.

The blow is enough to send him sprawling through the lifelines,

where he just manages to grab one of the nylon cords.

Sam ducks as the boon continues to swing erratically above the

deck, watching as Ray hauls himself on board.

The boat no longer driven by the wind, bobs up and down on a

small ground swell.

The two men face each other.

Ray nods, then reaches down, pulls off the winch handle and

starts with it toward Sam.

Sam looks around.  He jerks open a storage compartment.  A

diver's weight belt tumbles out.  Sam grabs it, swings it over

his head in circles, letting the weight pick up momentum,

preparing to throw.

Ray crouches, still brandishing the winch handle.  The boom

sweeps the deck.

Sam throws the belt.

Ray grabs a shroud, dances out of the way, then steadies himself,

a mean grin spreading across his face.

There's no tine for Sam to look for anything else.

Ray moves quickly across the deck -- a menacing sight -- tall,

well-muscled, the handle gleaming in his hand.

Sam pulls himself out of the cockpit.  Ray jumps in.  But that's

as far as he gets.

WHOOSH -- A spear pierces Ray's thigh.  He screams, goes down,

the handle skittering across the deck.

Ray follows it with his eyes, reaching out, then freezing as he

sees something else.  He draws in his hand as if bitten.

He scuttles backward, pulling himself onto the deck, clutching at

his leg which squirts blood as if an artery has been severed.

But his eyes never leave the hatchway leading belowdecks.

The boat heels over.  The spear in Ray's thigh bangs against the

edge of the cockpit.  He grimaces in pain as...

Suzie Toller steps up from belowdecks.  She's wearing a bikini

and showing a nice tan.  She's carrying Sam's new spear gun, a

fresh spear at the ready.

Sam secures the boom.  Ray stares at Suzie, his face twisted with

some combination of pain, rage and fear.

San starts for Ray.

Sam's feet slide in the bloody smear.  He stops.

Ray clings to a safety line.

WHOOSH -- A second spear penetrates Ray's shoulder.  He loses his

grip.  The boat heels over, dumping Ray into the water.

Suzie puts down her spear gun.  She goes to a storage locker,

takes out a bait bucket.  She steps up on the deck.

Ray is floating not far from the boat, the water going red around

him.  He calls out...

She raises the bucket, heaves bloody chum into the water.

She heaves more chum -- a big red slurp across Ray's face.

Ray gasps, goes under, thrashing around in the red slick.

INSERT - SHARKS

from underwater, in a frenzy, rip a human body into a bloody

cloud.

EXT. SAILBOAT - LATER

Suzie cones up from below with a champagne bottle and glasses,

already filled.

Sam gazes out to sea.

Sam just looks at her.

Suzie smiles -- showing the big gap where her two front teeth

used to be.

She hands a glass to Sam, takes the other.  He puts it to his

lips, suddenly hesitates, thinks, sniffs the glass.

A moment.  Suzie shakes her head.

Sam downs his drink.

Suzie gives him a pouty look.

Sam sighs.

Suzie gives him her best, gap-toothed smile, then comes forward

to take the gleaming chrome wheel, as Sam scrambles up on deck,

kneeling where Ray had kneeled before him to set the jib.

Suzie watches -- a long beat, then, slowly reaches behind her,

unhooking the line which holds the boom...

ANGLE ON BOOM

sweeping the deck -- coming right at us, blotting out the sky.

EXT. SMILING JACK'S - SUZIE'S ROOM - DAY

Gloria sits on Suzie's bed, books spread out around her.  Ruby

stands beside her.

Ruby takes a photo album from among the books, opens it, tosses a

photograph on the bed.  It is one we have seen before.

ANGLE ON PHOTO

A stately old gentleman in a three-piece suit.  White hair, a

white handlebar mustache.  A derby on his knee, a walking stick

at his side.  He stares out at the world from a high-backed

wicker chair, flanked by potted palms and two small terriers.

Across the bottom of the picture is the name -- "WILLIAM TECUMSEH

VAN RYAN."  And beside that, in another hand -- "Dear old Dad."

Gloria looks once more at the old photograph.

Gloria stands, a little weary.  Ruby walks her from the room.

They have gotten to the main room and Gloria stops short,

noticing for the first time that the beat-up old black-and-white

TV has been replaced by a high-tech, giant-screen television.

The old lady nods, walks her outside.

EXT. SMILIN' JACK'S FISH CAMP - DAY

The dusty road, the little dock, the gator pen.

Gloria nods.  She is distracted by a movement in the gator pen.

CLOSE ON PEN

For a moment there is nothing more than a few ripples across the

surface of the pond which lies inside the pen, then, slowly, the

GATOR'S EYES -- cold, reptilian, unblinking, rising up to gaze

across the oily waters.

BLACK.  CREDITS...

for about ten seconds, enough to fool the audience, then...

INTERCUT - LIKE OUTTAKES...

... PIECES OF SCENES WE COULDN'T SEE, or SCENES WE DIDN'T SEE AT

ALL, in reverse chronological order.

INT. GUEST HOUSE - NIGHT

Kelly is frantically trying to unlock the gun case as Ray comes

through the French doors.  She can't get it done.  He's there in

an instant.

She screams, backs away, then watches as Ray stops, wraps a hanky

around his hand and breaks the glass.

He takes out a small caliber handgun, checks the clip, aims the

gun at his own shoulder and fires.

BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then

EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY

A Jeep and a truck parked in the mud.  Sam and Ray meet under

heavy, moss-draped cypress.  Sam hands Ray a plastic bag -- the

teeth.

BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then

EXT. BEACH - NIGHT

SAM & SUZIE

behind the big rocks.  He's got vise-grip pliers jammed in her

mouth.  Suzie moans, for real.  He loosens his grip.

Sam takes a breath, prepares to try again.  Suzie pops a couple

of pills with gulps of wine.  Sam goes to it once more.

BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then

INT. SAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Kelly and Sam on the floor, naked.  He's on her from the rear.

It's getting wild.  He suddenly stops, rolls to the floor.

Kelly laughs, straddles him.

BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then

EXT. THE GLADES MOTEL - NIGHT

Suzie's VW is parked across the street, in the shadows of tall

trees.  She and Sam sit inside, watching as...

Ray Duquette EXITS a bungalow, a sport coat over his arm.  He

heads for Jim's Recovery Room.  In another moment, a young hooker

in a leather miniskirt walks out of the same bungalow.

INT. JIM'S RECOVERY ROOM - NIGHT

Ray is at the bar.  Sam sits down next to him.  A moment of

silence, the twang of a country JUKE BOX -- then...

BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then

ZNT. SAM'S OFFICE - BLUE BAY SCHOOL

Suzie Toller framed in the doorway.  She walks in.

Sam just looks at her.

She takes an envelope from her notebook, tosses it in front of

Sam.  Pictures slide onto his desk -- Sam and Kelly -- in various

poses of coked-out debauchery at the Glades Motel.

BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then

INT. JIM'S RECOVERY ROOM - DAY

Sam lounges in a booth.  He looks hot, bored.  He stirs a drink.

Kelly walks in out of the light.  She is looking a little strung

out, a big straw bag slung over one shoulder, but oh, so sexy in

skimpy cutoffs and cowboy boots -- long legs flashing as she

nears Sam's booth.  Sam looks up, as...

She takes out a snail bag of white powder, taps out a line on the

table top.

Sam looks at it.  He looks at Kelly.  He's had a few drinks.

END CREDITS.

The seal comes up.  It's over.  They head for the lobby -- but --

EXT. SMILIN' JACK'S FISH CAMP - LATE AFTERNOON

Gloria stands beneath the jawbones, looking toward the channel as

the shadows lengthen across the dirt road.

ANGLE ON CHANNEL

Walter hangs a "FOR SALE" sign on a small, shabby sloop.

Gloria CROSSES the road.

Walter shoots her a look.

Walter finishes with the sign.

Gloria has nothing to say.  She stares at the little sloop

bobbing in the muddy water of the swamp.

EXT. THE CARIBBEAN - WIDE ANGLE - SEA LEVEL - DAY

A head bobs among the groundswells.

CLOSE - SAM LOMBARDO

sucking wind through a smashed face, struggling to stay afloat,

as...

... in the distance, the sloop races toward a far horizon.

ANGLE ON SLOOP - HELICOPTER SHOT

Suzie, at the helm, looking good, face to the wind.

