From a faraway place

Where the caravan camels roam

Where they cut off your ear /Where it's flat and immense

If they don't like your face /And the heat is intense

It's barbaric, but hey--it's home!

When the wind's at your back

And the sun's from the west

And the sand in the glass is right

Come on down,

Stop on by

Hop a carpet and fly

To another Arabian night!

Arabian nights

Like Arabian days

More often than not

Are hotter than hot

In a lot of good ways

Arabian nights

'Neath Arabian moons

A fool off his guard

Could fall and fall hard

Out there on the dunes.

Ah, Salaam and good evening to you worthy friend.

Please, please, come closer--(Camera zooms in hitting

peddler in face) Too close, a little too close.  (Camera

zooms back out to CU)There.Welcome to Agrabah.  City of

mystery, of enchantment, and the finest merchandise this

side of the river Jordan, on sale today, come on down!

Heh, heh.  Look at this! Yes!  Combination hookah and

coffee maker--also makes Julienne fries.  Will not break

(taps it on table), will not--(it falls apart)--it

broke.  Ooohhh!  Look at this! Pulls out Tupperware) I

have never seen one of these intact before.  This is the

famous Dead Sea Tupperware. Listen.  (Pries it open,

makes raspberry sound.)  Ah, still good. (Camera begins

to pan to right.  PEDDLER hurries to catch it.)  Wait,

don't go!  (Stop pan.)I can see that you're only

interested in the exceptionally rare.  I think then, you

would be most rewarded to consider...this.  (PEDDLER

pulls the MAGIC LAMP out from his sleeve.) Do not be

fooled by its commonplace appearance.  Like so many

things, it is not what is outside, but what is inside

that counts.  (Another pan, this one slower to left.

Again, PEDDLER rushes to catch up.)  This is no ordinary

lamp!  It once changed the course of a young man's life.

A young man who liked this lamp was more than what he

seemed.  A diamond in the rough.  Perhaps you would like

to hear the tale?  (PEDDLER pours shiny sand from the

lamp into his hand.)  It begins on a dark night (PEDDLER

throws sand into the sky, where it forms a starry

nightscape.) , where a dark man waits, with a dark

purpose.

on his shoulder.  GAZEEM comes riding up to the pair.)

half of the medallion.  JAFAR reaches out for it,

but GAZEEM yanks it back.)  Ah, ah, ahhh!  The treasure!

(IAGO squawks as he flies by and grabs the medallion.)  Ouch!

coming to you.

them, and the insect medallion begins to glow.  Finally, it

flies out of JAFAR's hand, scaring the horses, and is off

towards the dunes.)

it reaches a large dune.  It separates into two and the

halves plunge into the dune.  All that remains are two glowing

points of light on the dune.  But then the dune begins to rise

up, transforming into a giant lion's head, with the glowing

points serving as the eyes.)

of wonders!

treasure is yours, but the lamp is mine!

entrance to the cave.  He chuckles as he goes.)

JAFAR are alone, IAGO opens up in normal English.)

Jeez, where'd ya dig this bozo up?

the cave, but is blown away by the roar of the cave's speaking.)

worth lies far within.  A diamond in the rough.

great apprehension, he plants his foot down.  Nothing happens.

Relieved, he begins his trek again.  Then another roar comes.

He turns back, but the lion's mouth slams shut and the dune

collapses back to normal.  All that are left are JAFAR, IAGO,

and the two separated halves of the medallion.)

never gonna get a hold of that stupid lamp!  Just

forget it.  Look at this.  Look at this.  I'm so

ticked off that I'm molting!  (He flies up to

JAFAR's shoulder.)

less than worthy.

surprise.  That's an incred--I think I'm gonna have

a heart attack and die from not surprise!  What're

we gonna do?  We got a big problem here,a big prob-

(JAFAR pinches his beak shut.)

one, this...diamond in the rough.

a loaf of bread.  He almost drops it over the edge.)

street rat!

this for a loaf of bread?

drying clothes on them.  He skies down them, collecting bits

and pieces of clothing on him as he goes.  Finally, he's

nearing the end of the rope, at a window, when a woman reaches

out and slams the shutters closed.  ALADDIN slams into the

shutters and falls to the street, his fall being broken by

numerous awnings and the pile of clothes around him.  He pulls

off the top layer of clothes and is about to enjoy his bread

when...)

find him.

He rushes over to the women.)

we Aladdin?

get caught--

first GUARD.  ALADDIN's disguise falls off.)

then the guard's turban is pulled down over his

eyes.  ABU dances on the GUARD's head, laughing.)

Gotta keep...one jump ahead of the breadline

One swing ahead of the sword

I steal only what I can't afford

That's everything!

swings, then pulls down the GUARD's pants.  ABU raspberries the

GUARD, then dodges an attack.  The GUARD swings at ALADDIN,

but destroys a barrel of fish.  As ALADDIN runs off, the GUARD

pulls a fish over his lower body as a pair of pants.)

One jump ahead of the lawmen

That's all, and that's no joke

These guys don't appreciate I'm broke!

on top of another GUARD.)

Scoundrel! Take that!

platform back and fro trying to knock him off.)

You're my only friend, Abu!

hands like an acrobat.  The pair swing into a harem.)

Oh, it's sad Aladdin's hit the bottom

He's become a one-man rise in crime

chipmunk.)

Tell you all about it when I got the time!

GUARDS rush past.  Cut to ALADDIN and ABU behind the MUSCLEMAN,

matching his moves, until they make a mistake and are discovered.)

One jump ahead of the slowpokes

One skip ahead of my doom

Next time gonna use a nom de plume.

One jump ahead of the hitmen

One hit ahead of the flock

I think I'll take a stroll around the block.

race through a flock of sheep, hurdle a MAN sleeping on a bed of

nails {of course one extremely large GUARD lands on him}.  ABU

disguises himself with jewels until a SHOPKEEPER discovers him.

Outrage! Scandal!

and a large, ugly LADY comes out.)

like they're all chums.)

Otherwise we'd get along!

ABU are gone.  They are sneaking away in barrels.  They run

across a flaming pit, followed by GUARDS who hop up and down,

screaming in pain as they cross the rocks.  ALADDIN and ABU

pass a SWORD SWALLOWER, then ABU goes back, pulls the sword

out of the SWALLOWER's mouth.  ABU advances on the guards,

who retreat in fear.)

once again surrounded, with GUARDS coming from left and right.

He jumps up and climbs a robe trick being done on the street,

as the GUARDS all crash into each other.)

carpet and jumps out the window)

Wish me happy landin'

All I gotta do is jump!

the street, and land in a pile with the sign "Crazy Hakim's

Discount Fertilizer."  ALADDIN uses the carpet as a parachute

to land safely and out of danger. ALADDIN and ABU high-five each

other.)

to eat.  But ALADDIN looks over and sees two young children

rummaging through the garbage for food.  The GIRL sees him, then

drops her find and tries to hide.  ALADDIN looks at them, then

the bread, then at ABU.)

over to the children.  The GIRL pulls her brother back.)

then looks guilty. He walks over to the children and offers his

bread to them.  In delight, they pet him on the head.)

going on.ALADDIN peers over the shoulders of people.  He sees

PRINCE ACHMED riding on a horse.)

alley. The BOY runs out in front of the PRINCE's horse,

startling it.)

jumps in front of them and catches the whip.)

horse with two rear ends!

street rat, you'll die a street rat, and only

your fleas will mourn you.

in his face.)

on, Abu.  Let's go home.

ABU for the night.)

I don't buy that.

If only they'd look closer

Would they see a poor boy?  No siree.

They'd find out, there's so much more to me.

Someday, Abu, things are gonna change.  We'll be

rich, live in a palace, and never have any problems

at all.

The door bursts open, and PRINCE ACHMED storms in, missing the

rear end of his pants.)

you?

off into the garden looking for his daughter.  He

finds her, but is interrupted by RAJAH, JASMINE's

pet tiger, who blocks him off.  RAJAH has a piece

of the PRINCE's undershorts in his mouth.The SULTAN

grabs the cloth and yanks it out of RAJAH's mouth.)

Confound it, Rajah!  So, this is why Prince Achmed

stormed out!

weren't you Rajah.  (RAJAH comes over and allows

JASMINE to pet and hug him.)  You were just playing

with that overdressed, self-absorbed Prince Achmed,

weren't you?  (She cuddles with RAJAH, enjoying the

moment, until she looks up at her angry father. )

Ahem.

that comes to call.  The law says you...

a dove out of the cage and pets it.) If I do marry,

I want it to be for love.

the dove, and he puts it back in the cage.) I'm not

going to be around forever, and I just want to make

sure you're taken care of, provided for.

own. (She swirls her finger in the water of the

pond, petting the fish.)I've never had any real

friends. (RAJAH looks up at her and growls.)

Except you, Rajah.  (Satisfied, he goes back to

sleep.)  I've never even been outside the palace

walls.

splashes the water.)

daughters!

cage and yanks open the door.  The birds fly off into freedom.

She watches them go.  Cut to int. of SULTAN's chambers.)

wasn't nearly so picky.  (A shadow falls over him.

He looks up startled and sees JAFAR.)  Ooh, oh.

Ah, Jafar--my most trusted advisor.  I am in

desperate need of your wisdom.

choose a husband.  I'm at my wit's-end.

pulls a cracker out from his pocket.  IAGO looks

terrified.  Then the SULTAN stuffs it in IAGO's

mouth.  IAGO grimaces as he tries to eat it.  JAFAR

and the SULTAN both laugh.)

(IAGO glares at him.)  Now then, perhaps I can

divine a solution to this thorny problem.

diamond.

years.

(JAFAR says the word 'princess' with the accent on

the second syllable, "cess."  He turns his staff

with a cobra head towards the SULTAN.  The eyes of

the staff begin to glow. The room darkens, JAFAR's

voice slows down and deepens.  The SULTAN's eyes

get a hypnotized look.)  Don't worry.  Everything

will be fine.

to normal as JAFAR pulls back the staff.)

play with your little toys.

the parrot spits out the cracker.)

one more of those moldy, disgusting crackers...bam!

Whack!

that addlepated twit.

ha!

at night.  A shadowy figure walks through.  We see it is JASMINE

in disguise.  She reaches the palace wall, then begins to climb it.

She is tugged from behind by RAJAH.)

have my life lived for me.  I'll miss you.(She

begins to climb again, and is helped up by RAJAH,

who begins to whine and whimper.)  Good bye!

and ABU are up to their capers again.  They are on top of the

awning of a fruit stand.)

will dance and sing. (ABU grabs a melon and

hangs there, distracting his attention.)  Hey,

get your paws off that.

dips down and snatches another melon from the stand.)

where he places it on top of a stack.  He looks confused, like

he has just done this.)

ASMINE walking through the street.)

or silver.

dates and pistachios!

necklace for a pretty lady.

into her face.)

a fire eater, who is startled into swallowing his

fire.)  Oh, excuse me.  (He gulps, then belches

fire from his mouth.  JASMINE is disgusted.  He is

pleased and taps his stomach.  ALADDIN sees her,

and a strange look comes over his face.)  I'm

really very sorry.

jumps up on his shoulder, waving his hand in front of ALADDIN's

face.)

reaching for a piece of fruit.  She picks one up and gives it to

him.)

boy runs off.)

get some from the Sultan.

chop it off.)

her. I've been looking all over for you.

crazy.  (He circles his finger around his ear.

She is shocked.  The PROPRIETOR grabs him by

the vest.)

JASMINE, playing along, kneels and bows to ABU.)

up another apple from the cart with his

foot.) But, no harm done.  (Walks over to

Jasmine.)  Now come along sis. Time to see the

doctor.

How are you?

pockets are bulging.) Come on, Sultan.

out.)

carry, and the trio run off.) Come back here,

you little thieves!

contraption.  At the top of the contraption is a storm brewing.)

rottenness, couldn't we just wait for a real storm?

SULTAN's ring in the contraption.)

into an hourglass below.  The sands begin to swirl.)

enter the cave.  (The sand in top forms the Cave of

Wonders.  It falls through into a storm, but it

shows ALADDIN climbing up a ladder, followed by

JASMINE who is covered in her cloak.) Yes, yes!

There he is.  My diamond in the rough!

waitin' for? (IAGO loses his footing and is sucked

into the gears.)

the palace, shall we?

ALADDIN in it.  Finally, we dissolve into the real ALADDIN climbing

to the top of the ladder, followed by JASMINE.)

She stands up.)

your first time in the marketplace, huh?

still in love.  She returns the look.  But he

realizes what he is doing, and returns to normal.)

I mean, uh, you don't seem to know how dangerous

Agrabah can be. (He lays a plank between the

buildings for her to walk over, but as he is leaned

down, she vaults over his head.  He looks back in

surprise.  She tosses the pole to him.  Both

ALADDIN's and ABU's eyes bulge.)

of a building, dodging planks and beams as they

go.)  Whoa.  Watch your head there.  Be careful.

exposes the palace) but it's got a great view.

Palace looks pretty amazing, huh?

have servants and valets...

to dress.

and ducking the guards.

another.  But ALADDIN then realizes where he is, and breaks the

look.  He takesthe apple out of ABU's hand and rolls it down his

arm into the hand of JASMINE.)

going back.

hand, then hands it to ABU, who has a disgusted

look on his face.)

princess and tries to steal the apple.) Abu!

to help.

ALADDIN leans in to kiss her.  He is interrupted, however,

by the GUARDS, who have found them.)

after you?

try to get away, but the exit is blocked by a GUARD.)

street rat?

here and block the exit.  The first GUARD pulls ABU off his head and

throws him in a vase.  Three other GUARDS grab ALADDIN.)

have here, men--a street mouse.  (He throws her

down.)

Unhand him, by order of the princess.

this street rat?

him!

Jafar.  You'll have to take it up with him.

will.

slides the door shut carefully, but the princess comes storming

in before he is finished.  He slams it shut, pinning IAGO inside

the door frame.)

cape, hiding the door.)

orders.

Agrabah.  The boy was a criminal.

door and it slams shut)--wow, that hurt!

frightfully upsetting.  Had I but known.

out.

By beheading.

JAFAR's shoulder, coughing.)

sinister smile on their faces.)

comes over to comfort her.  She pets him.)

name.

ALADDIN chained to the wall.)

it.  I must have sounded so stupid to her.

wraps a cloth around his head and makes his eyes big in an

imitation of the princess.)

out of his pocket, then frees ALADDIN.)

street rat, remember, and there's a law. She's

gotta marry a prince, she deserves it.

have seen before.)

perhaps we can be more.

with treasures beyond your wildest dreams.

Treasure enough to impress even your princess, I'd

wager.

'princess' as "prin-CESS" rather than the standard pronunciation

of "PRIN-cess."   The OLD MAN turns his back, and IAGO sticks

his head out of JAFAR's "old man" disguise.)

Whoever has the gold makes the rules.(He grins,

showing a hideously bad mouth.)

treasure with me?

back to go in after it.

seem.  So, do we have a deal?

OLD MAN and ABU on it.  Diss. to cave of wonders.)

ALADDIN. )

you shall have your reward.

his vest.)

and enters a golden chamber filled with treasure.)

than the sultan!

off the floor and begins following them.  ABU gets the feeling

they're being followed.)

the CARPET begins to follow again.  Again, ABU turns back, but the

CARPET is rolled up and leaning against a pile of treasure. ABU

runs to ALADDIN and tugs his pant leg.)

jumps to the other side.  It reaches down with a tassel and pulls

ABU's tail.  When ABU jumps around, CARPET again goes to the other

side.  This time, ABU lands in a karate stance.  CARPET reaches

down and plucks ABU's hat off, then puts it on himself.  ABU sits

thinking for a second, until CARPET waves a tassel in front of his

face.  ABU and CARPET both jump scared, and run away.  ABU tackles

ALADDIN and turns his head to look at the CARPET.)

hurt you.

it off.  It flies over to ALADDIN and hands the hat to ABU next to

him.  ABU screeches, and jumps onto ALADDIN's shoulder.)

his fist and screeches at it.  CARPET begins to walk away, "sadly.")

us.  (CARPET looks back, excited. It then flies

over and wraps around the pair.)  Hey, whoa!  You

see, we're trying to find this lamp.  (CARPET

motions for them to follow it.)  I think he knows

where it is.

underground cavern.  In the centre of the room is a tall pillar,

with a staircase going up to it.  It is surrounded by water

with unevenly placed stones forming a bridge.  At the top of

the pillar is a beam of light.  ALADDIN begins to cross the bridge.)

giant ruby.  ABU is hypnotically drawn to it.   ALADDIN climbs the

stairs quickly.  CARPET sees ABU and grabs his tail trying in vain

to hold him back.  ALADDIN finally reaches the MAGIC LAMP.)

here to--  (He looks down and sees ABU break free

of CARPET's hold and lunge toward the jewel.)  Abu-

NO!

shake.)

places the jewel back into the paw, but the jewel

and the shrine melt into lava.) Now you

will never again see the light of day!

skies down until he flies into the air.  The water has turned into

lava.  He is falling toward it, when all of a sudden CARPET appears

and catches him.   ABU is standing on one of the rocks of the

bridge. He looks left and right and sees rocks exploding into lava.

Then CARPET races over and ALADDIN grabs him, just as the last rock

is exploding.)

debris.  ABU grabs ALADDIN's head and covers his eyes.)

his head and sees they are flying into a wall.)

Start panicking.

emerge through the internal entrance.  Outside, the cave begins to

growl and close.  CARPET and company are almost to the top when a

boulder drops on carpet, sending it to the floor.  ALADDIN  grabs

onto the rock wall and holds on.  He sees the OLD MAN at the top,

within reach.)

nd the OLD MAN raises it above his head.)

MAN kicks aside ABU and grabs ALADDIN's wrist.)

normal voice.) Your eternal reward.

ABU bites him on the wrist.  He screams, but lets go of ALADDIN,

who falls into the cave.  OLD MAN throws ABU into the cave as

well.  They fall.  CARPET sees this, but is pinned under a

boulder.  It struggles to break free, then does.  It races

up and catches ALADDIN, but he has already hit the wall several

times, and is unconscious.  On the surface, the cave roars one

final time, then sinks back into the sand.  JAFAR pulls off

his disguise.)

find it in his pocket)--- where is it?  No. NO!!

to RAJAH who looks sad. The SULTAN walks in.)

looks as if she's been crying.)

Now, tell me everything.

ABU tries to wake him.)

We're trapped.  (Angry, shaking his fists at the

entrance) That two faced son-of-a-jackal!  (Calmer)

Whoever he was, he's long gone with that lamp.

beat-up, worthless piece of junk.  Hey, I think

there's something written here, but it's hard to

make out.

LAMP begins to shake and glow, but ALADDIN holds onto the

LAMP, and our wonderful friend, the GENIE comes out.)

such a crick in the neck!  (He hangs ALADDIN on a

nearby rock.  Then he pulls his head off and spins

it around, yelling as he does so.  CARPET pulls a

ALADDIN down.)  Whoa!  Does it feel good to be

outta there! (GENIE uses the lamp end of himself as

a microphone.) Nice to be back, ladies and

gentlemen.  Hi, where ya from? (Sticks the mic in

ALADDIN's face.)  What's your name?

major) Aladdin! (A neon sign lights up with

ALADDIN's name on it, circled by chase lights.  The

sign changes to reflect the GENIE's upcoming line.)

Hello, Aladdin.  Nice to have you on the show.  Can

we call you 'Al?' Or maybe just 'Din?'  Or how

bout 'Laddi?'  (GENIE disappears, then a dog

wrapped in plaid jumps in.) Sounds like 'Here, boy!

C'mon, Laddi!'

than I thought.

poofs into smoke, then back to the GENIE.  ABU

screeches wildly.)  Oh, sorry Cheetah--hope I

didn't singe the fur!  Hey, Rugman!  Haven't seen

you in a few millennia!  Slap me some tassel!  Yo!

Yeah! (CARPET flies over and high fives the GENIE.

GENIE looks at ALADDIN.)  Say, you're a lot smaller

than my last master. (Lifts his beer-gut.)  Either

that or I'm gettin' bigger.  Look at me from the

side--do I look different to you?

mortarboard on his head.)  That's right!  He can

be taught!! What would you wish of me, (as Arnold

Schwarzenegger)  the ever impressive,(inside a

cube) the long contained, (as a ventriloquist with

a dummy) often imitated, (tosses the dummy aside)

but never duplicated--

duplicated,  duplicated,  duplicated,

duplicated, duplicated, duplicated.

Genie!  Of!  The Lamp!  (Goes into Ed

Sullivan)  Right here direct from the lamp, right

here for your enjoyment wish fulfillment.

Thank youuuuu!

wishing for more wishes.  (Turns into a slot

machine, arm pulls down and three GENIEs appear in

the windows.)  That's it--three.  (Three GENIE

caballeros come out of the slot.)  Uno, dos, tres.

(Changes into b/w Groucho Marx.)  No

substitutions, exchanges or refunds.  (The duck

drops with the secret word "Refunds.'

think you quite realize what you've got here! So

why don't you just ruminate, whilst I illuminate

the possibilities.  (GENIE lights up like a

fluorescent light)

Well Ali Baba had them forty thieves

Scheherazadie had a thousand tales

But master you in luck 'cause up your sleeve

You got a brand of magic never fails!

GENIE appears in his vest, then sticks his arms out and boxes

the thieves into submission.)

You got some power in your corner now

Some heavy ammunition in your camp

You got some punch, pizzazz, yahoo and how

See all you gotta do is rub that lamp

And I'll say

by GENIE.  Then GENIE turns into a pile of fireworks and

explodes.  Then GENIE appears inside lamp and grabs ALADDIN's

hand and rubs lamp with it.)

Mister Aladdin sir

What will your pleasure be?

Let me take your order, jot it down

You ain't never had a friend like me

No no no!

note pad, like a waiter. )

Life is your restaurant

And I'm your maitre' d!

C'mon whisper what it is you want

You ain't never had a friend like me.

but enlarges his ear to listen to ALADDIN.  Finally, he explodes

into four duplicate GENIEs.)

Yes sir, we pride ourselves on service

You're the boss, the king, the shah!

Say what you wish, it's yours!  True dish

How about a little more Baklava?

appears in a comfy chair (eh?)  surrounded by the treasure

and being fanned by women.  The GENIE appears and fills the

screen with baklava.)

Try some of column 'A'

Try all of column 'B'

I'm in the mood to help you dude

You ain't never had a friend like me

then jumps to another column with a B on top.  He falls off

and is caught by a cushion held by GENIE.  He opens his mouth,

and his tongue turns into a staircase.  A miniature GENIE

dressed like a magician comes out.)

hands.  At the end, they surround the mini GENIE and squish

him into nothing.)

Can your friends do this?

Do your friends do that?

Do your friends pull this out their little hat

Can your friends go poof!

Well looky here

Can your friends go Abracadabra, let 'er rip

And then make the sucker disappear?

He tosses them to ALADDIN, who juggles with one hand and spins

one of the heads on his fingertip like a basketball.  He tosses

the heads back onto the GENIE, who proceeds to try and pull

himself out of a hat at his base.  He spirals around and around

until he turns into a white rabbit.  The rabbit transforms into

a purple dragon (very reminiscent of Figment from EPCOT Center).

The dragon breathes fire, which turns into three HAREM GIRLS,

who dance around ALADDIN.  Just as he begins to enjoy them,

they disappear.)

So don't you sit there slack jawed, buggy eyed

I'm here to answer all your midday prayers

You got me bona fide, certified

You got a genie for a charg? d'affairs!

I got a powerful urge to help you out

So what you wish I really want to know

You got a wish that's three miles long, no doubt

So all you gotta do is rub like so, and oh!

certificate which rolls up and surrounds ALADDIN.  GENIE pulls

a list {written in Arabic} out of ALADDIN's ear, which he uses

to rub his behind like drying off after a shower.)

Mister Aladdin, sir, have a wish or two or three

I'm on the job, you big nabob

You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend

You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend

You ain't never...had a... friend... like...me!

You ain't never had a friend like me!

She turns into the GENIE, who zaps four dancing elephants into

existence.  To the other direction, he zaps in four dancing camels,

and a grand finale dancing number ensues.  ABU grabs as much gold

as he can, but the GENIE wraps everything up in a cyclone and

zaps it away until they're all back in the cave.  GENIE has a

neon "APPLAUSE" sign on his back. ABU turns his hat over and

sees that is is empty.)

few provisos, a couple of quid pro quos

slices his head off with his finger.)  So don't

ask.  Rule two: I can't make anyone fall in love

with anyone else.  (Head turns into a big pair of

lips which kiss ALADDIN.)  You little punim, there.

(Lies flat, then gets up and transforms into a

zombie.) Rule three: I can't bring people back from

the dead.  It's not a pretty picture, (He grabs

ALADDIN and shakes him) I don't like doing it!  (He

poofs back to normal.)  Other than that, you got

it!

mean limitations?  On wishes? (To ABU) Some all

powerful genie--can't even bring people back from

the dead. I don't know, Abu--he probably can't even

get us out of this cave.  Looks like we're gonna

have to find a way out of here--

them.)

me?  Did you rub my lamp? Did you wake me up, did

you bring me here?  And all of a sudden, you're

walkin' out on me?  (Gets madder and madder) I

don't think so, not right now.  You're gettin' your

wishes, so siddown!  (They all get on CARPET.

GENIE takes the form of a stewardess, with lots of

arms pointing out the exits.)  In case of

emergency, the exits are here, here, here,

here,here, here, here, here, here, here, here,

here, anywhere!  Keep your hands and arms inside

the carpet.  Weeee'rrrrrreee...outta here!

into the distance.  Cut to int. of SULTAN's chamber. JAFAR is

there with IAGO, JASMINE and the SULTAN.)

your years of loyal service... . From now on,

you are to discuss sentencing of prisoners with me,

before they are beheaded.

business behind us.  Please?

well, princess.  (He takes her hand to kiss it, but

she yanks it away.)

marry.  When I am queen, I will have the

power to get rid of you.

getting back to this suitor business, (he

looks and sees Jasmine walking out) Jasmine?

Jasmine!  (He runs after her.)

you!  D'oh!  To think--we gotta keep kissing

up to that chump, and his chump daughter for the

rest of our lives...

Then she'll have us banished--or beheaded!

Jafar?  What if you were the chump husband?

you become sultan!

merit!

the little woman off a cliff!  (Dive bombs into the

floor)  Kersplat!

coming in for a landing.)

Carpet for all your travel needs.  Don't stand

until the rug has come to a complete stop.  (As

ALADDIN and ABU get off down the stairway formed by

CARPET) Thank you.  Good bye, good bye!  Thank you!

Good bye!  (Back to normal)  Well, now.  How about

that, Mr.  doubting mustafa?

ONE, boy!

cave.  You did that on your own.

sheep.)

baaaaad boy,  but no more freebies.

good.  (To GENIE) What would you wish for?

my case, ah, forget it.

(Grows gigantic, voice echoes) Phenomenal cosmic

powers!  (Shrinks down, cramped in MAGIC LAMP.)

Itty bitty living space

have to go "Poof! What do you need? Poof! What do

you need? Poof! What do you need?"  To be my own

master, such a thing would be greater than all the

magic and all the treasures in all  the world! But

what am I talking about, here?  Let's get real

here.  It's not gonna happen.  Genie, wake up and

smell the hummus

wishes me out.  So you can guess how often that's

happened.

huh, right.  Whoop!

and GENIE's head returns to normal.) After make my

first two wishes, I'll use my third wish to set you

free.   (He holds out his hand)

O.K.   Let's make some magic!  (Turns into a

magician.)  So how 'bout it.  What is it you want

most?

heart with a cross through it.)  Wrong!  I can't

make anybody fall in love, remember?

this hair, wow...and her smile.

Ami.  C'est l'amour.

have to be a--hey, can you make me a prince?

chicken a'la king? (Pulls out a chicken with a

crown on its head)  Nope.  Alaskan king crab?

(Yanks out his finger, and we see SEBASTIAN the crab from

"The Little Mermaid"  clamped on.)  Ow, I

hate it when they do that.  Caesar's salad? (A

dagger comes out and tries to stab him.) Et tu,

Brute?  Ah, to make a prince.  (Looks slyly at

ALADDIN.)  Now is that an official wish?  Say the

words!

shoulders and looks like Arsenio Hall. Then becomes

a tailor/fashion designer.)  First, that fez and

vest combo is much too third century. These

patches--what are we trying to say--beggar?  No!

Let's work with me here. (He takes ALADDIN's

measurements, snaps his fingers and ALADDIN is

outfitted in his prince costume.)  I like it, muy

macho!  Now, still needs something.  What does it

say to me?  It says mode of transportation.  Excuse

me, monkey boy!  Aqui, over here!  (ABU tries to

cover himself with CARPET, but GENIE zaps him and

he flies over.)

show set, where ALADDIN stands behind a podium with

"AL" on it.)  And what better way to make your

grand entrance on the streets of Agrabah, than

riding your very own brand new camel!  Watch out,

it spits!  (A door bearing the GENIE's head on it

opens, where ABU is transformed into a camel.  He

spits out the side of his mouth on cue.  But the

GENIE's not sure.)  Mmm, not enough.  (He snaps his

fingers and ABU turns into a fancy white horse.)

Still not enough.  Let's see.  What do you need?

(The GENIE snaps his fingers repeatedly, turning

ABU into:  a duck, an ostrich, a turtle, and a '57

Cadillac, with license plate "ABU 1."   (That one's

a guess, I don't know cars, but judging by the tail

fins, 'nuff said.)  Finally, he's returned to

normal.)  Yes!!  Esalalumbo,  shimin dumbo!  Whoa!!

(And on the keyword of the spell, Dumbo, ABU turns

into an elephant.  CARPET struggles to get out from

under ABU's size 46 feet.)  Talk about your trunk

space, check this action out!

The tree naturally bends right back down to the ground, where ABU

hangs on and looks at ALADDIN upside down.)

we're not through yet.  Hang on to your turban,

kid, cause we're gonna make you a star!

begin to explode outward.  Cut to a CU of a pile of toys.

(Look for the BEAST here.)  We tilt up and see the SULTAN

balancing them.  He carefully balances the last piece on top,

then sits back and sighs.  JAFAR storms in, though, and the

pile collapses.)

your daughter.

has not chosen a husband by the appointed time,

then the sultan shall choose for her."

stuff a cracker into IAGO's mouth.  IAGO backs

away.  The SULTAN absentmindedly pulls the cracker

back.)  How could I choose someone she hates?

(IAGO is relieved, but the SULTAN quickly stuffs a

cracker in his mouth.)

event a suitable prince cannot be found, a princess

must then be wed to...hmm...interesting.

marry a princess, I'm quite sure.

lord.  (He pulls out the staff and hypnotizes the

SULTAN with it.)

breaks momentarily)...but you're so old!

me!

broken, this time by the trumpet fanfare of "Prince

Ali".)  What? What is that?  That music!  Ha ha ha.

Jafar., you must come and see this!

human form as a MAJOR.)

Hey you, let us through, it's a bright new star,

Now come, be the first on your block to meet his eye!

Make way, here he comes,

Ring bells, bang the drums.

You're gonna love this guy

Prince Ali, fabulous he, Ali Ababwa!

Genuflect, show some respect

Down on one knee

Now try your best to stay calm

Brush up your Sunday Salaam

And come and meet his spectacular coterie.

MAJOR "wheelbarrows" six men up onto ABU's trunk.  They stand

on each other's shoulders as ALI shakes hands.)

Prince Ali, mighty is he, Ali Ababwa!

Strong as ten regular men, definitely

He faced the galloping hordes

A hundred bad guys with swords

Who sent those goons to their lords, why Prince Ali!

zaps the pile and he ends up holding them all up in an acrobatic

wheel formation.  The GENIE turns into an old man, then a child

and speaks the last two lines to the crowd.)

the parade)

When it comes to exotic type mammals

Has he got a zoo, I'm telling you

It's a world class menagerie!

lines to the two children from earlier.  We cut to a balcony,

where three HAREM GIRLS are joined by the HAREM GENIE.)

GENIE:

GIRLS: (in couterpoint)

Prince Ali, Handsome is he, Ali Ababwa

There's no question this Ali's alluring

That physique, how can I speak

Never ordinary, never boring

Weak at the knee

Everything about the man just plain impresses

Well, get on out in that square

He's a wonder, he's a whiz, a wonder

Adjust your veil and prepare

He's about to pull my heart asunder

To gawk and grovel and stare at Prince Ali!

And I absolutely love the way he dresses!

humphs it off, then leaves.)

(He's got the monkeys, let's see the monkeys!)

And to view them, he charges no fee!

(He's generous, so generous)

He's got slaves, he's got servants and flunkies!

(Proud to work for him)

They bow to his whim, love serving him

They're just lousy with loyalty to Ali!  Prince Ali!

collect them.  ABU and the parade march up the steps of the

palace and inside.  The SULTAN runs back inside to the door

to the throne room, but JAFAR stands in front of the door.

Suddenly, it bursts open, with ABU leading the way, and crushing

JAFAR and IAGO behind the door.)

Amorous he!  Ali Ababwa

Heard your princess was a sight lovely to see!

And that,good people, is why

He got dolled up and dropped by

With sixty elephants, llamas galore

With his bears and lions

A brass band and more

With his forty fakirs, his cooks, his bakers

His birds that warble on key

Make way for Prince Ali!

on MAGIC CARPET and flies down to the SULTAN.  JAFAR slams the

door shut.)

journeyed from afar to seek your daughter's hand.

meet you.  (He rushes over and shakes ALI's hand.)

This is my royal vizier, Jafar.  He's delighted

too.

Abooboo--

and expect to--

(He tugs at the tassels, and they tug his

moustache.)  I don't suppose I might...

JAFAR pins the CARPET down on the floor with the staff.)

was standing on the head of the staff, falls down, repeatedly

bopping the staff with his beak as he descends.  SULTAN and

CARPET fly high into the ceiling, then begin a dive-bomb attack,

flying under ABU, scaring him.  The flight continues in the

background, while JAFAR and ALI talk in the foreground.)

(He smiles.  JAFAR does not.)

heads.  CARPET returns and the SULTAN chases IAGO around the room.)

crashes into a pillar.  He crashes to the floor, and his head

is circled by miniature SULTANS on CARPETS, saying "Have a cracker,

have a cracker.  The real SULTAN begins his final approach.)

watch this!  (He lands.)

it.  (CARPET walks over to ABU dizzily, then

collapses.  ABU catches it.)  This is a very

impressive youth. And a prince as well.   (Whispers

to JAFAR) If we're lucky, you won't have to marry

Jasmine after all.

an excellent judge of character.

behalf.  (JASMINE hears this and gets mad.) This

boy is no different than the others.  What makes

him think he is worthy of the princess?

JAFAR's goatee, which springs out in all

directions.)  Just let her meet me.  I will win

your daughter!

All of you, standing around deciding my future?  I

am not a prize to be won!  (She storms out.)

Jasmine time to cool down.  (They exit.)

Abooboo.

ALADDIN and company in the courtyard.)

talk to her.  I should have known I couldn't pull

off this stupid prince wish.  (ABU struggles with

his elephant paws to open a banana.  He squishes

it, and the banana squirts into his eye.  He then

tosses the banana peel into a heaping pile of the

same.)

knocking a black piece off the board.)  Hey.

That's a good move.  (As Rodney Dangerfield) I

can't believe it--I'm losing to a rug.

deal.  You wanna court the little lady, you gotta

be a straight shooter, do ya follow me?

out his words on a blackboard)  Tell her

the...TRUTH!!!

crummy street rat, she'd laugh at me. (He

puts on his turban, which lights up as the GENIE.)

(ALADDIN pulls the chain turning off the light.

GENIE comes out holding the real turban.)  Al, all

joking aside, you really oughtta be yourself.

I'm gonna go see her.  I gotta be smooth, cool,

confident.  How do I look?

sighing.  RAJAH is by her side.)

deep voice) Prince Ali Ababwa.

growls and advances on him.)

his turban to brush RAJAH away.)

before.)  Wait, wait.  Do I know you?

I have servants that go to the marketplace for me.

Why I even have servants who go to the marketplace

for my servants, so it couldn't have been me you

met.

about her! She's smart,  fun, the hair, the eyes.

Anything--pick a feature!

swaggering, peacock I've met!

Mayday!

his turban)

won.  (He looks disappointed.)  You should be free

to make your own choice.  (JASMINE and RAJAH look

at each other in confusion.)  I'll go now. (He

steps up on the ledge and drops off.)

(She looks over the edge and sees the CARPET.)

tassel.)

We could get out of the palace, see the world.

important line) What?

me?

knocking them both into sitting positions.  The music of "A Whole

New World" swells.  JASMINE looks back and sees RAJAH looking

up at her questioningly.  She gasps as they fly over the palace

wall and into the sky.)

Shining, shimmering, splendid.

Tell me princess, now when did you last

Let your heart decide?

flower.  It gives the flower to ALADDIN, who gives it to JASMINE.

She smiles.)

I can open your eyes

Take you wonder by wonder

Over, sideways, and under

On a magic carpet ride

A whole new world!

A new fantastic point of view

No one to tell us no

Or where to go

Or say we're only dreaming

flies in and out of the clouds.)

A dazzling place I never knew

But when I'm way up here

It's crystal clear

That now I'm in a whole new world with you!

then circles a pillar of clouds, giving a swirly look to it.)

Indescribable feeling

Soaring, tumbling, freewheeling

Through an endless diamond sky

and squawks.  CARPET does somersaults and flips, at times putting

ALADDIN and JASMINE in free-fall, but catching them.  They then

zoom above the clouds where a starry night awaits them.)

I've come so far

I can't go back to where I used to be!

ship's sails are the Great Pyramids.  They wave at a worker

sculpting the complete nose of the Sphinx.  He smiles, but

chisels too much and breaks off the front section of the nose.)

There's time to spare

Let me share this whole new world with you

A whole new world

That's where we'll be

tree and rolls it down his arm to JASMINE, who is now sure

she is dealing with ALADDIN, not PRINCE ALI.)

the moon in the lake.  Fireworks burst and we see the couple

at a Chinese New Year celebration, sitting on a rooftop.)

It's a shame Abu had to miss this.

realizing what is happening.)  He doesn't really

like flying either. (And now ALADDIN realizes it)

That is...oh no!

market!  I knew it.  Why did you lie to me?

what I meant.

giving up hope.)  The truth...the truth is...I

sometimes dress as a commoner to escape the

pressures of palace life.  (CARPET slumps down in

defeat.)  But I really am a prince! (The feather on

his turban falls down over his eyes.)

city in disguise, it sounds a little strange,

don't you think?

tassel under his "chin" and looks mystified.  Dissolve to ext.

of palace balcony, where ALADDIN and JASMINE return.  CARPET

forms a set of steps and she descends.  ALADDIN then descends

just below the balcony.)

kiss sooner than expected.  She walks away slowly then turns and

looks at him. Finally she enters her room through the curtain.)

to the ground.) For the first time in my life,

things are starting to go right.

Muffled words) Abu!  Abu!  (We see the elephant

hanging from a net tied in a tree.)

CARPET in a knot around a tree.)

Abooboo.  (Walks away.)  Make sure he's

never found.

cliff, where GUARDS laugh as ALADDIN's body drops into the water.

He is conscious now, but his feet are tied to a rock.  The rock

hits the sea bottom, then the turban lands and the lamp tumbles

out.  He sees this and struggles to rub the lamp.  However, he

loses consciousness and falls to the floor.  The lamp, unsettled

by his movement, rolls down and rubs against his hands. It shakes,

and GENIE emerges with a bath brush, rubber duckie, and shower cap)

the lamp.  (Squeaks the duck)  Hello.  (Sees

unconscious ALADDIN) Al?  Al!  Kid, snap out of it!

You can't cheat on this one!  I can't help you

unless you make a wish.  You have to say  "Genie I

want you to save my life."  Got it?  Okay.  C'mon

Aladdin!!  (He grabs ALADDIN by the shoulders and

shakes him.  His head goes up, then falls.)  I'll

take that as a yes.  (Head turns into a siren.)

Wooga!  Wooga!  (Turns into a submarine.)  Up

scope!  (He babbles in something that sounds like

German.  On the surface, a giant water spout

emerges, and lands on top of the cliff.  ALADDIN

reawakes and coughs the water out of his lungs.)

Don't you scare me like that!

it, so they just hug each other.)  Thanks, Genie.

that I want to pick out curtains or anything.

her hair.  The SULTAN appears in one of the double doors,hypnotized.)

I'm so happy.

Jasmine. I have chosen a husband for you.

wed Jafar.

wife.

Father, I choose Prince Ali!

killed.

nonsense, your highness.  He is obviously lying.

(He brings the staff close to the SULTAN's face.)

and the spell is broken for good.)

this!  (He advances the staff)

dig a grave for both of us.  We're dead.

is grabbed by guards.)

him, but JAFAR throws the vial to the floor.  A large red cloud

appears.  When it is gone, so is JAFAR.)

me all this time.  Just horrible.  How will I ever-

(He stops in mid sentence and looks at the pair.)

Can it be true?  My daughter has finally chosen a

suitor? (She nods) Ha ha!  Praise Allah!  You

brilliant boy, I could kiss you!   I won't--I'll

leave that to my--.  You two will be wed at once!

Yes, yes.  And you'll be happy and prosperous, and

then my boy, you will be sultan!

person of your unimpeachable moral character is

exactly what this kingdom needs!  (ALADDIN looks

concerned at this.)

start packing, your highness.  Only essentials.

(IAGO starts throwing things out of his cage.

JAFAR smiles broadly.)  Travel light! Bring the

guns, the weapons, the knives (Stops and takes out

a picture of himself    and JAFAR) and how about

this picture?  I don't know--I think I'm making a

weird face in it. (JAFAR starts to laugh wildly.)

Oh, boy--he's gone nuts.  He's cracked.  (IAGO

flies down to him and knocks on his head.)  Jafar?

Jafar?  Get a grip, Jafar! (JAFAR grabs him around

the neck) Good grip!

Aladdin.  He has the lamp, Iago.

one-man band.  He sees ALADDIN walk away with his

head hung.  He stops, scratches his head, comes up

with an idea, then zooms over to ALADDIN.  He holds

up his hands like a director scoping a picture and

we look through them.)  Aladdin, you've just won

the heart of the princess.  What are you gonna do

next?  (ALADDIN looks at him, then walks away in

sadness to the bed, where he falls on it and sighs.

GENIE again is confused, then goes to him and pulls

out a script labeled "Aladdin." Whispering: )

Psst, your line is "I'm going to free the genie."

Anytime.

free."  (He grabs ALADDIN's head and uses

him as a mock ventriloquist's dummy.  ALADDIN pulls away.)

they want to make me sultan--no!, They want to make

Prince Ali sultan.  Without you, I'm just Aladdin.

anything is because of you.  What if they find out

I'm not really a prince?  (Quietly)  What if

Jasmine finds out?  I'll lose her.  Genie, I can't

keep this up on my own.  I can't wish you free.

you've lied to everyone else.  Hey, I was beginning

to feel left out.  Now, if you'll excuse me,

master. (He says the last word in disgust, then

poofs back into the lamp.)

spout and raspberries him.)   Well, fine. (He slams

a pillow on top of the LAMP.)  Then just stay in

there!  (He looks at ABU and CARPET.)  What are you

guys looking at? (They both leave.) Look, I--I'm

sorry.  Wait, Abu-- wait--I'm sorry, I didn't--

wait, c'mon.  (He sighs.)  What am I doing?

Genie's right--I gotta tell Jasmine the truth.

into the garden.)  Jasmine?  Where are you?

in the pond.  He is imitating JASMINE's voice.)

then turns back and looks into the face of a FLAMINGO, who is

panting.)

feet out from under it. IAGO runs into the palace

and finds the lamp under the pillow.)  Boy, Jafar's

gonna be happy to see you!  (Stretches his face

like JAFAR's and imitates it.)  Good work, Iago!

(Normal) Ah, go on.  (JAFAR) No, really--on a scale

of one to ten, you are an eleven! (Normal) Ah,

Jafar--you're too kind.  I'm embarrassed, I'm

blushing.  (He flies away with the lamp.)

an announcement to the people.)

suitor!

appears at the bottom of the stairs.)

announcement!

with the SULTAN, where he overlooks the entire

crowd.)

(He lifts the lamp and rubs it.  GENIE comes out.)

reallyyyyyy--I don't think you're him.  (He

descends and consults a playbill.)  Tonight, the

role of Al will be played by a tall, dark and

sinister ugly man.

ground and puts his foot on GENIE's face.)

high, as sultan!!!

The roof rips off and the SULTAN and ALADDIN duck.)

flies up, then is stripped of all his clothing except his boxer

shorts.  The clothing reappears on JAFAR.)

off his own turban, but finds it empty)  The lamp!

the clouds..  ALADDIN whistles and CARPET flies up to greet him.

They fly up near the GENIE's head.)

palace on top of a mountain.)

will bow to me!

cower before a sorcerer!  (To GENIE)  Genie, my

second wish--I wish to be the most powerful

sorcerer in the world!

and another GENIE (tm) brand lightning bolt  strikes JAFAR,

returning him to his normal look.)

Sorcerer Jafar!

(He zaps JASMINE and the SULTAN with his staff, and

they both bow to him. RAJAH comes running at him.

He zaps RAJAH, and the tiger turns into a kitty-

cat.)  Down, boy!  Oh, princess--(lifts her chin

with his staff)--there's someone I'm dying to

introduce you to.

Yes, it is he,

But not as you know him.

Read my lips and come to grips

With reality

Yes, meet a blast from your past

Whose lies were too good to last

Say hello to your precious Prince Ali!

Just a con, need I go on?

Take it from me

His personality flaws

Give me adequate cause

To send him packing on a one-way trip

So his prospects take a terminal dip

His assets frozen, the venue chosen

Is the ends of the earth, whoopee!

So long,

a tall pillar, then launches it like a rocket, but not before

CARPET can get in.  F2B, then we see a snowy wasteland, where

the pillar crashes and rolls.  It finally comes to a stop.

ALADDIN emerges, obviously very cold.)

snow.)  Oh, this is all my fault--I should have

freed the genie when I had the chance.  (He digs

out ABU and cradles him inside his vest.)  Abu!

Are you okay?  I'm sorry, Abu--I made a mess of

everything, somehow.  I gotta go back and set

things right.  (He starts to walk through the snow,

and he eventuallysteps on a frozen CARPET.)

Carpet!  (He looks up and sees CARPET is pinned by

the pillar.  He tugs to try and free CARPET.  He

can't do it, so he begins to remove snow from the

base of the pillar.)   Abu, start digging!  That's

it!  (Finally, enough snow has been removed, and

the pillar begins to roll.  ALADDIN runs away,

looks back, then slides into place.  The pillar

rolls over him, and when it is gone, ALADDIN and

ABU are left sitting in the patch of snow made by

the window of the pillar.)  Yeah!  All right!  (He

looks up at his turban, made out of scared ABU.

CARPET shakes off the snow and rushes over to pick

them up.)  Now, back to Agrabah!  Let's go!

Cut to int. and slow zoom of throne room. IAGO has the SULTAN

tied up like a marionette, and JASMINE is chained next to the

throne.)

Shove 'em all right down your throat.  Here, have

lots!

(He takes a bite out of the apple she is holding.)

A beautiful desert bloom such as yourself should be

on the arm of the most powerful man in the world.

(He waves his finger and a crown appears.) What do

you say, my dear?  Why,  with you as my queen...

raises his hand to slap her.  Then he stops.)  No.

Genie, I have decided to make my final wish.  I

wish for Princess Jasmine to fall desperately in

love with me.

addendas, some quid pro quo-

will do what I order you to do, slave!

play along.)

Jafar!  I never realized how incredibly

handsome you are.

shade.)  Now, pussycat, tell me more

about...myself.

sees them.)

Al, I can't help you--I work for senor psychopath,

now.  (His head turns into JAFAR's, then back.)

mouth.)  I'll improvise.

JAFAR's back is to ALADDIN.)

arms around him.  She pretends to twist with her

finger, but she is actually motioning for ALADDIN

to come over.  He makes his move.  IAGO sees him.)

turns to look, but JASMINE grabs him back and kisses him.  ALADDIN

looks disgusted.  IAGO and ABU both look disgusted.)

crown.) You!!  How many times do I have

to kill you, boy?

(He zaps ALADDIN.  JASMINE rushes him, and he throws her to the

ground.  ALADDIN rushes and grabs the staff.)

zaps her into an hourglass.)

zapped and unravels.  ALADDIN again rushes for the

lamp.)  Get the point?  (His path is blocked by

large swords sticking in the floor.  JAFAR grabs

the lamp and laughs hideously. ALADDIN pulls a

sword out of the floor.) I'm just getting warmed

up!  (He breathes a ring of fire around ALADDIN.)

snake?

snake-like I can be!  (He smiles broadly, and we

see a snake's tongue come out from behind his

teeth.  He then turns into a giant cobra, and the

ring of fire around ALADDIN becomes part of the

snake encircling ALADDIN.  The snake JAFAR makes

moves on ALADDIN, and on the third try, ALADDIN

swings the sword and hits JAFAR.  Cut to GENIE

cheerleaders wearing 'A' sweaters.)

that snake!

GREAT!

JASMINE is trapped.  However, JAFAR sees this and blocks the path.

ALADDIN is thrown away, and he loses his sword.)

the sword on his way.  He turns a corner, but the pursuing snake

cannot, and the front half of JAFAR crashes through a wall and

hangs outside the palace.  ALADDIN jumps up on the snake's back

and stabs it.  JAFAR screams in agony.  ALADDIN again tries to

free the princess.)

you could defeat the most powerful being on earth!

Jafar--Squeeze him like a--awk! (GENIE elbows him

out of the way)

has more power than you'll ever have!

into this?

not for long!

too many hits with the snake  (His hand

turns into a snake and he hits his head with it.)

powerful genie!

Way to go, Al.

JAFAR's snake form dissipates and he turns into a genie.  We

see JASMINE's raised hand disappear under the sand.  ALADDIN

runs over and finally smashes the glass.  Sand and princess

pour out.)

(JAFAR looks down questioningly) You wanted to be a genie, you

got it!  And everything that goes with it!

genie, I don't want--

and RAJAH are standing together.  RAJAH jumps up into the arms of

the SULTAN, then they are all transformed.  The SULTAN is crushed

because of the weight of the new RAJAH.  The palace reappears

where it used to be in the city.  ALADDIN is left holding the

new lamp.)

out of my face!

balcony.  He is now wearing a baseball cap.  He

winds up as if to throw the lamp, but opens his

palm flat and flicks it out into the desert

with his finger.) Ten- thousand years in a cave of

wonders ought to chill him out!

over to ALADDIN.  They hold hands, but both look sad.)

prince.

his head around the corner shocked at what he is

hearing.)

got one wish left.  Just say the word and you're a

prince again.

love.  (He leans down next to her.)  Al, you're

not gonna find another girl like her in a million

years.  Believe me, I know.  I've looked.

pretending to be something I'm not.

to the GENIE.)

free!

GENIE's wrist and the lamp falls uselessly to the ground.

GENIE picks it up and looks at it.)

free.  (He hands the lamp to ALADDIN.)  Quick,

quick, wish for something outrageous.  Say  "I want

the Nile."   Wish for the Nile.  Try that!

the balcony like a pinball.)  Oh does that feel

good!  I'm free!  I'm free at last!  I'm hittin'

the road.  I'm off to see the world!  I--

very sad.)

always be a prince to me.

as far as I'm concerned. It's that law that's the

problem.

forth, the princess shall marry whomever she deems

worthy.

Him!  I choose...I choose you, Aladdin.

GENIE is decked out in a Hawaiian shirt with golf clubs and a Goofy

hat.)

Mind if I kiss the monkey?  (He kisses ABU.)  Ooh,

hairball!  Well, I can't do any more damage around

this popsicle stand.  I'm outta here!  Bye, bye,

you two crazy lovebirds.  Hey, Rugman: ciao!  I'm

history!   No, I'm mythology!  No, I don't care

what I am--I'm free!

behind him.  They cut (a jump cut to make matters worse)

to fireworks exploding over a nightscape. We tilt down and see

ALADDIN and JASMINE flying on CARPET.)

the moon turns and reveals the GENIE's laughing face.  Suddenly

the film is grabbed "off the projector", the GENIE lifts it up

and looks at the audience.)

The end.)

