THE PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC

Written by

Carl Theodor Dreyer & Joseph Delteil

Translated by

Oliver Stallybrass

At the Bibliotheque Nationale in

Paris it is possible to see one of

the most famous documents in the

history of the world - the official

record of the trial of Joan of Arc.

The Bibliotheque Nationale's original record of the trial of

Joan of Arc is shown on the screen. An invisible hand turns

over the manuscript pages.

... If you turn over the pages,

yellow with age, which contain the

account of her martyrdom ...

Page after page is shown of this unique document with its

lines as straight as arrows, its marginal annotations, and

the naive miniature drawings for which the notaries have

found time and space.

... you will find Joan herself ...

not the military genius who

inflicted on the enemy defeat after

defeat, but a simple and natural

young girl ... who died for her

country.

The last pages are turned. Then the picture disappears and

gives way to the first scene of the film, which shows

1   The prison, where Joan is sitting, praying. The flagstones,

the floor in Joan's cell. We see two straws and a hand,

Joan's hand, which lays the straws on the floor in the form

of a cross.

2   Scenes from the church are shown: the chalice is brought out.

3   In the prison we see Joan kneeling before   her straw cross -

this most fragile and exalted of crosses.   She prays in

ecstatic joy, at one moment bending right   forward so that her

forehead touches the flagstones, the next   moment kneeling

with her hands folded and her eyes raised   to heaven as if she

saw beings visible only to her. From time   to time she mutters

a short prayer.

4   THE CHURCH

A young monk makes his way through rows of kneeling priests.

He is the Usher Massieu, who is on his way to summon Joan and

conduct her to her first examination.

5   THE PRISON

Joan in front of her little cross. Suddenly the two straws

spin round in a mysterious gust of wind. What is it?

2.

Joan sits for a moment, overcome with astonishment, then puts

the straws back in the form of a cross. Again a hostile power

attacks this cross and scatters it over the flagstones. Joan

doesn't know what to believe. Can it be one of her voices? A

divine intervention? Once again she replaces the cross. Then

there is a roar of laughter from the door behind her. Joan

turns and sees three soldiers, who have been standing in the

half-open door, blowing at her straw cross through a long

tube.

Enter the soldiers. They are tormentors and bullies of the

worst kind. They continue to jeer at her.

6   Now the jailer appears, an elderly man, followed by a

blacksmith. Joan turns in terror and looks up at them. When

she sees the chains in the blacksmith's hands, her eyes fill

with tears, and she shrinks back a step. The jailer seizes

her by the foot, and the blacksmith puts the ankle-chains on

her.

7   While he is thus occupied, Massieu enters. He is an engaging

young man of twenty-five, healthy, vivacious and open; he

radiates youth, health and life. He remains standing by the

door until the others have left the cell. The jailer, who

goes out last, certifies that the prisoner is the Maid. The

door closes behind the jailer. And now that Massieu is alone

with this woman, whom he has heard described as a dangerous

witch and an object of fear - he is afraid. He prays

inaudibly and crosses himself. He has brought with him a

small stoup and aspergillum, and as he stands by the door he

sprinkles Joan eagerly with holy water. Joan, who has dragged

herself over to the boards which serve as her bed, looks at

him in gay surprise, and with a slight smile says:

Come a little nearer, I shan't fly

away!

Massieu, astonished, approaches her, asks if she is Joan, the

Maid, and when she confirms this begins to read the summons:

... that you summon the aforesaid

Joan, commonly called the Maid, to

appear before us ...

Joan declares herself ready to follow him. Massieu calls for

the jailer. They lead Joan out.*

8   THE CHAPEL

Bishop Cauchon takes the chair for the trial. To either side

of him sit the Inquisitor, Lemaitre, and Jean d'Estivet, who

is to present the case against Joan.

3.

9    Every face turns towards the entrance. They all see Joan for

10   Joan comes forward. Through the pointed, colored windows the

11   With a harsh movement Cauchon orders Joan over to the seat

12   She remains standing for a moment, drooping under the heavy

The accused begs humbly for leave

to go to confession ...

4.

13   Then he opens the session and orders Joan to take the oath.

I swear by the Holy Gospels to

speak the truth, the whole truth

and nothing but the truth,

concerning the mission which has

been entrusted to me by the King of

Heaven.

14   There is a hush in the room. At this moment, when everything

15   Joan has sat down again, and the hearing begins. Cauchon asks

At home I am called Jeannette ...

Here they call me Joan!

16   Cauchon asks her age. Joan thinks and counts on her fingers:

Nineteen ... I think.

17   Cauchon, after smiling to his neighbor, asks:

Can you say Our Father?

Who taught it to you?

My Mother ...

18   The Promoter, Jean d'Estivet, whispers to Cauchon:

5.

Tell her to say the Our Father! If

she refuses, it will be evidence of

her being possessed by the Devil.

19   Cauchon rebukes her for this stubbornness and lets the

You say that you are sent by God?

To save France!

That is why I was born!

20   Finally he says:

So you believe that God hates the

English?

I know not whether God loves or

hates the English ...

21   Disappointment on the judges' faces. Joan continues, with a

6.

But I know for certain that the

English will all be driven out of

France ...

... except for those who are going

to die here!

22   Cauchon asks:

You have told how Saint Michael

appeared to you ... how did you

greet him?

23   With touching simplicity Joan kneels, goes through the motion

24   Cauchon continues:

In what form did he reveal himself?

25   Finally, when quiet is more or less restored, Cauchon

What was Saint Michael wearing?

26   An elderly canon is seen to rise, go over to the bishop and

7.

How can you know whether the person

you saw was a man or a woman?

27   Cauchon is reluctant to give up the ground he has won. He

Was he naked?

Do you not believe that God would

have clothes for him?

28   Cauchon realizes that his stratagem has failed, but

Did he have any hair on his head?

Why should he have had it cut off?

29   Cauchon sees that he will get nowhere with Joan by this

Why are you wearing men's clothes?

Are you willing to wear a woman's

dress?

30   Massieu leans towards her and advises her to accept this

When I have completed the task

which God has entrusted to me, then

I will wear women's clothes again.

8.

31   An indication that another trap is being prepared. Then one

So it is God who has commanded you

to go about in men's clothes?

Yes!

32   The Promoter, Jean d'Estivet, complacently makes some notes.

And what reward do you hope to

obtain from the Lord?

33   Joan, whose expression is that of a saint, folds her hands on

The salvation of my soul!

34   But Jean d'Estivet is incapable of controlling himself. He

Do you not understand that what you

are saying is blasphemy?

35   After this last outrage on the part of the Promoter, de

This is unworthy ...

... it is persecution!

9.

36   He leaves his place; Ladvenu tries to restrain him, but he

We are treating this woman like an

enemy - not like a human being on

trial!

37   Then he casts a look full of tenderness at Joan, who at this

For me she is a saint!

38   Warwick has followed these proceedings with an attentive eye.

39   When he reaches the porch the officer takes two soldiers with

40   Paul Jorge [the name of one of the actors] prepares to rise

41   Cauchon stops him with a movement, and gives the order for

Has God promised you anything?

Can you not tell us what it is that

God has promised you?

You must tell us.

That has nothing to do with your

trial!**

42   Cauchon maintains the contrary, and Joan tells him to ask the

10.

Has this question any bearing on

the trial?

43   And Cauchon is able to say to Joan that, since the relevance

What has God promised you?

44   Cauchon continues:

Has God promised you that you will

be released from your prison?

When?

I do not know the day or the hour!

45   She takes a few steps, turns and asks:

May I not be relieved from carrying

these chains?

Will you take an oath never to bear

arms against England again?

46   Joan answers unhesitatingly:

No!

11.

47   They break up into groups, according to their friendships or

48   THE PRISON

49   THE CHAPEL

50   THE PRISON

12.

51   The conference in the chapel. Loiseleur finishes his

52   THE PRISON

53   The conference in the chapel. The notary finishes his reading

54   In the little ante-room leading to Joan's prison. The

55   A short scene from the conference, featuring two documents. A

56   THE PRISON

57   Just as the first soldier has finally succeeded in forcing

13.

58   Loiseleur shuts the door. He is alone with Joan. He looks all

I have great sympathy for you!

59   Loiseleur has stopped by the cross; when he takes a pace

60   Finally he says to her in a low whisper:

Would you recognize your King's

signature?

I can't read!

61   Loiseleur reads the letter aloud for her, as follows:

To our dearly beloved Joan.

Charles, the King, hereby informs

you that he is preparing to advance

on Rouen with a mighty army. He is

sending you a faithful priest, who

will stand by you. Have confidence

in him.

14.

62   Loiseleur suddenly raises his head and pricks up his ears.

63   Loiseleur moves away from Joan and goes towards the hiding-

Your martyr's crown.

64   She turns to him with a look of joy, hardly daring to believe

65   Joan confesses her sins like a schoolchild reciting a lesson.

66   Cauchon and his confidants have left their hiding-place and

67   Cauchon gestures to Lemaitre who says to Joan:

You profess to be a daughter of

God? ...

Then why will you not say Our

Father?

15.

68   Lemaitre continues with the hearing:

Has God told you that you will be

released from your prison?

Yes ... and by means of a great

victory!

69   The judges are astonished and cross-examine her. They ask her

I know that God will soon come to

my help in a miraculous way!

70   Jean d'Estivet hastens to write down this important answer.

71   Lemaitre leans forward and begins to question her:

Has God promised you that you will

go to Paradise?

So you are certain of being saved?

16.

72   Again Joan resorts to Loiseleur. He gives the same sign as

Do you realize that this is an

extremely important answer?

You had better hold your tongue!

73   Lemaitre presents his next question, which is only one link

Since you are so certain of your

salvation ... why do you need to go

to confession?

74   Lemaitre realizes that the moment is ripe for presenting the

Are you in a state of grace?

75   But then the honest and fair-minded Massieu moves

Don't answer, Joan - this question

is too dangerous...

17.

Be quiet, will you, in the Devil's

name!

76   When peace is restored Cauchon gives orders for the hearing

Answer now! Are you in a state of

grace?

If I am not, may God put me there!

And if I am, may God so keep me!

77   Joan has broken the chain of beaters. She realizes this and

78   Joan throws herself at Cauchon's feet, embraces his knees and

I implore you to let me come to

Mass!

79   Loiseleur has hastily stolen over to Cauchon and is

18.

Joan, if you were allowed to go to

Mass now ...

... would you consent to give up

your men's clothes?

80   Finally Cauchon says:

Then you would rather keep your

men's clothes than come to Mass?

I cannot do anything else ... it is

not in my power!

... this shameless costume ...

... abominable in the eyes of God

...

... You are no daughter of God ...

81   Cauchon shows no sympathy. He lowers his voice, bends right

... but a child of the Devil!

19.

Go and prepare the instruments of

torture!

82   The soldiers, who have witnessed the examination, escort him

Why did you make signs to her and

give her good advice?

83   THE PRISON

Do not grieve ... place your trust

in God, he will not forget you!

84   The other soldiers roar with laughter and say in mocking

She looks just like a daughter of

God, eh?

20.

Saint Joan, pray for us!

85   Enter Massieu. He is to fetch Joan and bring her to the

86   THE TORTURE-CHAMBER

87   Enter Massieu with Joan. She is told to come nearer. Cauchon

88   The judge who helps Joan to her seat says:

Look! at all these kind,

sympathetic men ...

Do you not consider that these

learned doctors are likely to be

endowed with more wisdom than you

...

89   Joan nods half absent-mindedly. The judge is pleased with his

... but the wisdom of God is even

greater!

21.

90   Cauchon has raised his hands to his face, outraged by such

Suppose we were to tell you now

that your visions did not - as you

believe - come from God ...

... but are sent to you by the

Devil, who wants to bring your soul

to perdition!

91   One of the judges asks:

If the Devil appeared in the form

of an angel, how could you be

certain whether it was a good or a

bad angel?

It is Satan to whom you have knelt,

not Saint Michael!

92   Cauchon gets up, approaches Joan in a dignified manner, leans

How can you believe that it is God

who guides your steps when you see

the abyss opening before your feet?

Do you not understand that it is

the Devil who has turned your head

...

22.

... who has deceived you ...

... and betrayed you?

93   Cauchon, judge of character that he is, has no difficulty in

... I declare that I am guilty of

the crimes with which I am charged,

and which the Devil has misled me

into committing. I confess that my

visions are the work of the Devil,

and I am ready to return to the

path of truth and, before all the

world, to recant ...

94   When the notary has finished reading aloud, Cauchon tells

The Church is opening her arms to

you ...

... but if you do not sign, the

Church will turn her back on you

and you will stand alone ...

23.

... alone ...

... alone - with God!

95   Cauchon, realizing that his prey is about to escape him,

I would rather die than deny God's

acts.

Even though you torture my soul out

of my body I shall confess nothing

...

... and if I should confess

anything, I will afterwards declare

that it was only by using force

that you made me confess.

24.

96    Joan collapses. The executioner bends over her. She has

fainted.

97    The executioner and Massieu carry her out while the judges

confer on what procedure to adopt next.

98    THE PRISON

Massieu has gone on ahead to notify Joan's keeper, who sends

a man out with a message for Warwick. Massieu prepares Joan's

bed and takes the little crown in his hands; he looks at it

for a moment, then flings it into a corner. Enter the

executioner and his assistant, carrying Joan between them.

They lay her on the bed and go out. Before Massieu leaves the

cell, he gives one of the soldiers instructions to keep an

eye on Joan.

99    THE TORTURE-CHAMBER

The judges confer. Cauchon thinks the torture should

continue, and asks the judges to vote on this proposal, but

only one of them is in favor of continuing. This is

Loiseleur, who says:

It is medicine for her soul!

Ladvenu gives Loiseleur a look of hostility.

100   THE PRISON

Joan is lying on her wretched bed. The chains, the brutal

soldiers, terror, fatigue, and finally the torture have

exhausted her strength. She is unrecognizable. Her face is as

white as a sheet. Deep shadows under her eyes. When the scene

opens, she is lying in a feverish doze. She breathes rapidly

and with difficulty.

A soldier with a hard, repellent face is watching at her

side. Joan opens her eyes and says:

I am thirsty!

The soldier looks at her with an unfeeling, hostile

expression. Then he takes the bowl of water and pours the

water over the floor.

101   THE TORTURE-CHAMBER

The judges have not yet concluded their conference. They

still seem unable to agree on whether the torture shall

continue or not. However, Master Erard wins a majority of the

votes when he declares:

This heart is much too hardened ...

25.

there is no hope of our getting a

recantation this time - we will

have to wait!

Cauchon disagrees. A confession would be valuable, even if it

was subsequently withdrawn. But Erard continues:

... and she might die at our hands!

Cauchon yields to this argument. Even Loiseleur defers to

Erard and admits that it would be very damaging to all their

interests if Joan died at the hands of the executioner. She

would then be certain to enjoy a martyr's glory. Having

decided to give up the torture they leave the torture-

chamber.

102   THE PRISON

Enter Warwick. He goes over to the bed and bends over Joan -

not with any feeling of sympathy. Joan opens her eyes for a

moment and meets his cold, hostile gaze. Then she relapses

into her state of lethargy. Warwick goes from the bed towards

the door, which he has left standing open behind him. Two

doctors whom he has sent for come into the cell. He follows

them over to the bed, where he speaks the famous words which

for sheer brutality are without parallel in history:

I would not have her die a natural

death on any account ... she has

cost me too much for that...

The doctors begin to examine Joan. They feel her thighs and

right side.

Meanwhile Warwick has gone from the sick-bed over to the

door.

103   Enter Loiseleur with the news that Cauchon is waiting in the

adjoining room. Warwick is about to go when one of the

doctors approaches him and says:

She has a fever, we shall have to

bleed her ...

Warwick shows signs of unease, and asks whether this is

really necessary.

The doctor insists that it is. Warwick consents, adding:

But take good care that she does

not do away with herself ... she is

very crafty.

26.

104   The doctor turns back to the bed to prepare for the blood-

letting. Warwick accompanies Loiseleur into the adjoining

room, where Cauchon and some of the other judges are waiting.

Cauchon enquires after Joan. Warwick answers in a manner

which cannot be misunderstood:

She is very weak...

The two men exchange glances. Cauchon and the judges have

come to extort a confession from Joan. 'whether because they

were afraid of her escaping in this way and dying without

having made a recantation, or because her weakened physical

condition raised hopes of her soul being easier to purchase.'

Cauchon explains to Warwick how he wants to proceed.

Loiseleur joins in the discussion and proposes a drastic

remedy. Cauchon approves Loiseleur's idea and tells Massieu

and another young monk to fetch the holy vessel.

105   While this is going on, scenes are shown from the sick-bed

and Joan's blood-letting. One of the doctors goes out in

order to report that the blood-letting is finished. The

patient is better and can undergo examination without danger.

Cauchon, Loiseleur and some of the other clerics come into

the cell. Warwick remains with the doctors in the adjoining

room.

106   Joan is lying with closed eyes. Cauchon goes over to the bed

and bends over Joan with a benevolent, paternal expression.

He touches her on the temples. Joan opens her feverish eyes.

He asks her in a friendly manner how she is. She makes a

movement with her head and at the same time gives a feeble

smile. Her eyes shift from Cauchon to the others; what is

going to happen now? She is evidently taken by surprise.

107   Cauchon guesses her thoughts, calms her and says:

We have come to give you comfort

and strength ...

A tiny glimmer of gratitude passes over Joan's face. Cauchon

and the others install themselves, sitting and standing round

her bed.

Cauchon, with the same benevolent air and kindly smile, asks

whether Joan has anything to say to him, whether perhaps she

has any wishes. Joan holds him for a long time in her gaze,

which the fever has made still more penetrating. Then she

makes a feeble movement with her head. Cauchon arranges the

pillow under her and comes close to her in order to hear

better. Joan, whose labored breathing makes it difficult for

her to speak, says in a weak voice:

27.

I am afraid that I am going to die

...

108   Cauchon speaks some words of consolation to her in his

capacity of priest. Joan continues:

... If I should die, I implore you

to have me buried in consecrated

ground!

Joan tries to read the answer from Cauchon's face; she sees

only utter benevolence and charitableness. In addition, all

the judges now seem full of affection and sympathy. They

tiptoe round her bed, first one and then another coming close

up to her. They tuck the blanket round her and touch the

place where she has been bled. Some of them kneel and pray

for Joan. She regrets not having been more amiable towards

these men who are revealing their true feelings, now that

they see her in such misery. She feels every confidence in

them and in Cauchon. He has caused her great suffering; now,

however, he appears no longer as a judge, but as one who has

come to show her goodness and compassion. And when Cauchon

strokes her hair and says:

The Church is merciful ...

Joan smiles trustfully.

109   Cauchon continues:

She does not close her heart

against those who return to her ...

Joan, in her weakened state, does not know how to express her

gratitude. She squeezes Cauchon's large hand in her tiny one,

which is absolutely white. But Cauchon says in a gentle

voice:

What would you say if we gave you

the Sacrament?

Joan cannot believe her ears. She asks one question after

another, which Cauchon answers only with nods and his

paternal, benevolent smile. Joan has to find an outlet for

her joy, and with her two small hands she takes Cauchon's

great fist and places it against her cheek.

110   Cauchon signals to Loiseleur, who opens the door. Enter

Massieu with the Eucharist. Cauchon helps Joan sit up in bed.

Beside herself with joy and anticipation, she follows the

preparations and keeps looking at Cauchon with gratitude.

Then she says joyfully:

I am a good Christian ...

28.

111   The judges in the cell send up a prayer of thanks to God for

restoring this lost sheep to the fold. Joan smiles happily.

Then the notary places a document in front of Joan and offers

her a pen. Joan looks in amazement at the document, which she

recognizes: it is the same declaration which was placed in

front of her for her to sign during the torture scene. Her

look of astonishment shifts from the notary to the document

and from the latter to Cauchon.

112   She explains once more that all the accusations in the

document are what God has commanded her to do. She cannot

recant like this without denying her God. Cauchon bends over

her and says:

The Sacrament ... is it not a great

blessing?

Joan nods, and her expression seems to want to say: of

course, everybody knows that the Church has no greater

treasure.

Cauchon continues:

... But you will never share in the

Church's blessings, if you do not

expiate your sins.

113   He indicates to Joan that she must sign. One of the judges

approaches with a wafer. An expression of misery and pain

lies on Joan's face as she sits there, sick, feverish and

racked with doubts. On one side she sees the wafer, which is

more precious to her than life itself, on the other side the

document, which will make her confess that she is an agent of

the Devil.

114   As if talking to herself and her conscience, she says:

I am a good Christian ...

As she sits there, alone with all these men, she is the

picture of utter despair and loneliness. They all gaze at her

with fixed stares. Nobody speaks to her. Finally Cauchon

breaks the silence. In a quiet voice he advises Joan to sign

and save her soul; but Joan has now mastered her temptation.

She hands back the paper. Her body is broken. But the

strength of her spirit is unaltered.

For a moment they are all struck dumb.

115   Cauchon gestures, ordering the Sacrament to be carried out.

The tears run down Joan's cheeks, when she sees the priests

going out with the sacred vessel.

29.

I love God ... I love Him with all

my heart!

she says.

116   Loiseleur, who has accompanied the procession into the

adjoining room, tells Warwick the outcome.

117   In the cell the atmosphere has changed abruptly. Cordiality

is replaced by coldness, gentleness by severity. The judges

are overcome by a feeling which can almost be called

irritation - irritation with Joan and what they call her pig-

headedness.

118   Jean d'Estivet reproaches her harshly for allowing her vanity

to take precedence over the salvation of her soul. He

concludes with these words:

If you die in this hour, you die as

an infidel...

Joan, goaded by the mental torture to which she has been

subjected, answers in words conjured up by her sancta

simplicitas; but Jean d'Estivet, revelling in the pain his

speech has given Joan, obliterates her with the wounding

words, which sting like the lash of a whip:

Your soul is doomed to perdition

...

To which one of the others adds:

... to everlasting torture in the

flames of Hell!

119   Groaning under the burden of the injustice and malice they

are heaping on her, Joan turns for comfort to Cauchon, whose

hand she has just pressed to her cheek; but Cauchon has no

comfort to give. He draws back and says coldly:

Joan, you are a child of the Devil!

120   She looks at him in unaffected terror. Then it is as if a

veil gradually falls from her eyes; as if the whole truth is

revealed to her in a flash of lightning. They have lied to

her in order to trap her. In her overwrought and exhausted

condition she loses all self-control. Fever and ecstasy take

charge of her features. As a stream of reproaches pours from

her lips they all gaze at her in terror: is this the last

flare-up before death, is it madness? All of them feel

themselves face to face with something unfamiliar and

extraordinary. Slowly they draw away. Cauchon rises and backs

round his chair.

30.

121   Foaming at the mouth, Joan continues to pour out a torrent of

words:

You say that I am a child of the

Devil...

and she continues:

... but I say it is you who have

been sent by the Devil to torment

me!

She stands up in bed, pointing at each judge in turn.

A violent storm of anger breaks out:

Blasphemy! She is possessed! This

is monstrous!

The judges huddle together in their agitation and terror, and

gradually withdraw.

122   And now Joan falls back on her bed, exhausted. She groans and

gasps for breath. She wipes the sweat from her forehead with

her sleeve. For a moment there is silence. Only her groans

can be heard. The judges look at each other, not knowing what

to do. Then they turn to Cauchon who is pondering. It is he

who breaks the silence with the following words addressed to

Massieu:

There is nothing for it ... give

the executioner his orders!

While the doctors who have entered during the preceding scene

are attending to Joan, the judges leave the room.

123   By the time the judges come out into the castle yard, there

are already rumors of what has happened in the cell. The

inhabitants of the castle crowd round to hear the news and

learn of the preparations now in hand for the penultimate act

of the drama. From the castle yard a small door leads out to

the churchyard, which lies outside the castle walls. The

judges make for the churchyard.

124   THE PRISON

Some soldiers have come with a stretcher. They lift Joan onto

it and carry her out.

125   THE CHURCHYARD

One group of judges after another is seen moving forward to

the spot from which they are to witness the impending

ceremony.

31.

126   Joan, lying on the stretcher, is carried into the churchyard.

127   The churchyard, which is surrounded by walls, is very big,

but only a few graves can be seen in it. They are all covered

with flat stones after the custom of the Middle Ages. In

those days churchyards served as a meeting-place at certain

festivals, and the judicial authorities of the Church often

used them as a stage for important announcements and

abjurations, which they wanted known to as many people as

possible; they formed a theatrical setting, with graves and

gravestones as sets. A stench of putrefaction arose from this

earth filled with dead bodies. The poisonous smell of

nothingness. The smell of stones, corpses and worms. Against

the buttress of the church two platforms have been erected

and covered with red velvet. On one of them the entire

assembly of judges is sitting in state: Pierre Cauchon, the

Inquisitor, and a host of jurists in scarlet caps and purple

skull-caps. The other platform is for Joan.

128   Escorted by English soldiers, Joan's little procession comes

slowly to this place.

129   Everywhere in the churchyard, and even on the walls, there

are thousands of people, heads jostling. The great majority

of them are favorably disposed towards Joan. When she is

carried in, every neck is craned to catch a glimpse of her.

For her part Joan tries to read her destiny in their faces.

From the way they look at her she gets the impression that

their feelings towards her are friendly. Joan, who for months

has lived remote from this earth, is visibly moved. She

smiles at the tiny flowers which greet her from the grass.

She almost touches them with her hand and imagines that she

is caressing them. But when she looks in the other direction,

her eye falls on two gravediggers who are engaged in opening

up an old grave. She sees the worms swarming in the skulls

which are thrown up, and she is filled with the fear of

death. Once more she ponders over the words which the members

of the judicial body have addressed to her, and she thinks

sadly of her fellow countrymen, who seem to have forsaken her

completely.

130   The tiny procession approaches the platform reserved for

Joan. Loiseleur comes forward to meet the procession and

assist her. She smiles happily at this man, whom she believes

to be on her side. She is helped to a seat on a little stool.

131   Her face is as white as a sheet. She closes her eyes, which

have been hurting intensely, bows her head and places her

hands on her breast to all appearances indifferent to

everything happening around her. Erard, Massieu and two

notaries take their places at Joan's side.

32.

132   Loiseleur goes back to the larger platform where he takes his

place near Cauchon, who now gets up and declares the session

opened.

Joan, for the last time I order you

to abjure. Are you willing to sign?

Joan sits motionless and expressionless. She hears nothing,

and smiles distantly.

133   One of the prelates takes his place at Joan's side. He begins

an admonitory sermon, taking as text the words from Saint

John's Gospel: 'The branch cannot bear fruit of itself except

it abide in the vine.' Inspiring terror at one moment,

speaking sanctimoniously the next, he warns, he threatens, he

implores, he mocks, he calls her a cunning traitor, cruel,

greedy, a liar, a heretic, a witch. His anger rises in

measure with his words and finally reaches a point where it

overflows in a torrent. He is unquestionably a powerful

speaker.

134   But the stream of words appears to flow over Joan's head

without touching her. The past and the present mingle in   her

thoughts; yet nothing of what goes on around her escapes   her

notice. She looks towards the open grave. She cannot see   the

actual gravedigger, only the earth which he is shoveling   up

from deep down. Then she hears a shout of command.

135   In the densest part of the crowd the soldiers are clearing a

passage to allow a carriage into the churchyard. The new

arrivals are the executioner and his two assistants.

136   Erard is enraged at Joan's apparent lack of interest in what

he is saying. He raises his voice and shouts furiously:

... This woman's arrogance fills

one with disgust ...

Joan's attitude remains unchanged. She does not move. Erard's

voice trembles as he continues:

There has never been a monster in

France like the one which has

appeared in the form of Joan.

He pauses, leans towards her, and with a threatening gesture

shouts at Joan:

It is to you, Joan, I am talking...

it is to you I say that your king

is a heretic!

33.

137   Now Joan turns towards him. She can withstand all his

invective, when it is her own person and her own honor that

are at stake; but this accusation directed at her king deeply

outrages Joan's love of France and of Charles, the king. Her

expression is one of anger and indignation as she says:

Indeed, my lord, I am ready to

maintain, even at the risk of my

life, that my king is the noblest

man in all Christendom...

138   A ripple of applause can be heard among the spectators. The

soldiers, who are standing side by side in closed ranks, turn

threateningly.

139   Thrown out of his stride by Joan's answer, the preacher

embarks on a tirade, which Joan answers confidently; finally,

not knowing how to respond, he shouts to Massieu:

Make her be quiet!

The spectators derive much derisive enjoyment from this

little scene.

Order has been restored on the platform. Massieu has

persuaded Joan to keep quiet. The preacher is approaching his

peroration. He points to the judges and declares they have

proved incontestably that Joan has violated the Church's

doctrines in deed as well as in word; and asks her if she has

anything to say in answer to this. She reflects for a moment

and, while the spectators stand on tiptoe to see what is

happening, she rises to her feet and says:

I alone am responsible for

everything that I have said and

done ...

Joan draws a deep breath before continuing. All those

standing round her gaze at her expectantly. Then she says:

... If have done any wrong, I am to

blame, and nobody else!

140   She sits down calmly. Erard, however, is almost inclined to

interpret her words as a declaration that she is now ready to

recognize the error of her ways. He leans forward towards the

notary, who hands her a paper. Several of the judges have

come forward, also one of Warwick's secretaries. There is so

much tumult and confusion round Joan that she has difficulty

hearing. Sommaire explains:

It is the abjuration ...

34.

Joan does not understand what this means. What is the meaning

of 'abjure'? She turns to Erard to ask his advice.

Explain it to her!

Erard orders Massieu. The latter asks to be excused, but

after glancing at Erard he does not dare to insist, and is

obliged to advise Joan of the danger she will incur by

refusing. He says to her:

If you do not sign you will be

burnt!

141   Among the crowd thronging the place the word 'burnt' can be

heard flying from mouth to mouth. Around Joan on the platform

the air is filled with shouted words. Joan asks Massieu for

advice; he tells her that when the Church advises her to sign

she must do so. Once again she turns to Erard and asks him to

tell her whether she must abjure. He answers:

Either you sign - or you will go to

the stake!

and he points at the executioner, who at this moment

approaches at a sign from Warwick. Now Joan understands the

cruel death in store for her, and she is afraid. Jesus Christ

also was afraid when He learned that His hour was come. Fear

has overcome her spirit and is affecting her feelings as well

as her judgement; with the threat of the stake hanging over

her she now begins to consider the proposition which has been

put to her. Almost unconsciously she turns her face towards

the grave. She sees shovelful after shovelful of earth piling

up ... a human skull appears among the lumps of soil. Worms

are writhing in the eye-sockets. The spectators shout:

Sign, Joan, sign!

142   But she does not hear them. She is breathing heavily and

feeling giddy. She looks vacantly at her surroundings like

somebody coming out of a faint, not knowing where he is. In a

whisper which is barely audible to anybody but herself she

says:

I have done no wrong ... I believe

in the twelve articles of the Creed

and in God's Ten Commandments!

143   Even Erard's heart bleeds at the sight of such deep

unhappiness. His tone changes, and his voice becomes almost

syrupy as he says:

Joan, we have great sympathy for

you!

35.

Warwick gives a sign to the executioner, who is approaching

with a rope.

144   Now Loiseleur mounts the platform and takes up a position on

the other side of Joan. He says to her in a low voice:

You have no right to die ... you

must continue to fight for France

... for the King of France.

Joan feels a pang in the pit of her stomach when he

pronounces the name of her country and her king, which mean

everything to her and are never out of her thoughts.

145   The spectators follow with anxiety and deep involvement

everything taking place on the platform. Those standing round

her, who have witnessed her fear, make all kinds of golden

promises if only she will consent to sign. Cries of 'Sign,

sign!' resound from mouth to mouth, and Loiseleur urges her

earnestly to follow this advice.

Joan is dazed, and no longer understands a thing. Anxiously

she explores the eyes of those standing round her. Her

terrible uncertainty is reflected in her expression. The

moment has arrived when she begins to yield to the

unremitting pressure. And when, at this very moment, the

executioner rises up before her, she surrenders.

146   She casts a frightened glance at her surroundings; then she

slowly kneels and bows her head. Sommaire seizes the document

which has been placed in front of Joan for her signature and

reads it aloud, sentence by sentence. Sentence by sentence

Joan repeats his words, smiling feebly and speaking in a

peculiar mechanical way which betrays the fact that she is

far away, absorbed in her own thoughts. During the reading

Erard gestures with the pen to the larger platform to inform

the judges that Joan is going to sign. The tension among the

spectators is at breaking point.

The reading is concluded. Joan gets to her feet. Erard puts a

pen in her hand; round Joan the excitement is palpable.

People seem to be afraid of her dying.

147   But Joan is like somebody who has escaped from a great

danger, whose relief now finds expression in a tremendous

joy, almost resembling gaiety.

36.

148   She draws a circle, explaining as she does so that she is

unable to write. But this is not good enough for Erard. So

Loiseleur steps forward and guides Joan's hand, enabling her

to write the word JEHANNE, followed by a cross. When Joan has

signed, Erard, with the document raised over his head, gives

a wink of triumph to let the judges know that he has

succeeded in his task. The document passes from hand to hand

until it reaches Loiseleur, who says cheerfully to Joan:

You have done a good day's work

today ... you have saved your soul!

149   And he hurries away to give Cauchon the document.

Among the spectators the tension is released in shouts of

joy. But one or two English soldiers, who have seen Joan's

smile, go up to her and shout at the priests around her:

She has only made fools of you!

The priests push them away. Cauchon, who has received the

document, now gives a signal for Joan to come forward and

hear her sentence of judgement.

150   Joan descends from the platform, leaning on Massieu. In his

enthusiasm one of the spectators forgets himself and bursts

out:

Long live the Maid! ... Long live

France!

Two soldiers turn abruptly, force their way through the

crowd, seize the unfortunate man who has given vent to his

patriotic feelings, and lead him away.

151   Joan has come before her judges' great platform. Cauchon

takes the document from his secretary and begins to read it

aloud:

In as much as you have at last

renounced the error of your ways,

we release you from excommunication

from the Church ...

Cauchon pauses for a moment. Joan stands before her judges

with folded hands. A smile of gratitude is sketched on her

face. She lowers her head to conceal her joy. Then Cauchon

continues:

But in as much as you have rashly

sinned we condemn you . ..

Joan looks up with an expression of fear and surprise.

Cauchon continues his reading:

37.

... to perpetual imprisonment,

there to eat the bread of sorrow

and drink the water of affliction

...

Joan stands for a moment, dumbfounded. It is as if she cannot

grasp the meaning of what she has just heard. She feels as if

her heart is in her mouth. Her eyes have the expression of a

hunted animal. Then she hides her face in her hands and

weeps. Cauchon gives a sign for Joan to be led out. She

staggers away, leaning on Massieu's arm.

152-3   THE GATEWAY LEADING INTO THE CASTLE YARD

Joan meets the two soldiers who earlier maintained that she

had made fools of her judges. They heap abuse upon her, and

Massieu has to protect her.

154     THE PRISON

Joan is escorted in by the jailer. He makes her sit down on a

stool and starts cutting off her hair. Joan is seized by a

new and dispiriting fear. Although she is in pain, she

manages to weep inaudibly, sobbing without a sound. When her

weeping eases off for a moment she whispers:

Oh, I am so tired, so tired ...

But the jailer is concentrating entirely on his work. The

locks of hair fall on the ground. Joan weeps ceaselessly. The

events in the churchyard pass in succession before her eyes,

but now she sees them in relation to one another, from a new

angle and with a sharper perception. She realizes that it is

the fear of death which has caused her to panic. She regards

what she has done as the greatest sin she has ever committed.

She is unable to forgive herself for having told lies through

fear of death. Bitter are the tears which well from her eyes,

from sources almost dried up, as Joan asks herself how she

may still atone for her sin and repair the damage she has

done. She turns to the jailer and says with an air of

entreaty:

Oh, I am so tired ...

The jailer mumbles something incomprehensible. Sympathy is

not to be expected from this quarter. Joan feels like an

outcast; it is hard to imagine a greater humiliation for a

woman than to be shorn of her hair. And Joan is a woman.

At last the cutting operation is concluded.

38.

155   Joan gets up and sits on her bed. She is like somebody who is

on the verge of collapse from lack of sleep, and who does

mechanically whatever he is told. Unconsciously she raises

her hands to her face, shudders and looks at her hands with

dread, as if they were unclean. She feels ashamed. What has

she done? She has denied her God. She thinks of Peter's

denial, of his threefold denial before cock-crow.

156   The jailer, who has left Joan by herself for a moment, now

returns with a broom. Almost without thinking, and with a

melancholy smile, Joan follows the broom as it sweeps up her

hair - hair from Orleans and from Rheims. The jailer sweeps

it up onto a shovel. He glances round the cell to see if

there is anything else he can sweep up while he is about it.

His eye falls on the plaited straw crown, the martyr's crown,

which has landed in a corner. Joan sees the broom gathering

in the crown. That too! It is as if in this little incident

Joan sees a sign from God. She bitterly laments the glory she

has lost by her abjuration.

The jailer leaves the cell. Joan sits by herself.   She thinks

of what she has done. This document signed by her   hand is a

denial, a denial of God. How she wishes she could   tear it to

shreds! She is in consternation over the enormity   of her sin.

Her soul is drowning in remorse. She flushes, she   shakes her

head violently: No! No! No!

She strikes her breast. She feels that she is damned

eternally, eternally abandoned by God. She raises her head in

bewilderment. She thinks of Hell. She stands up as if to cry

out in remorse. Then suddenly she recalls the executioner and

the stake at which her flesh will burn. She collapses again

on her bed. She sits there in agony, her head hidden in her

hands. The door opens. The jailer comes in. Now Joan rises,

having made her decision. She hurries over to the jailer and

shouts :

Go and fetch the judges ... I take

back ... I regret ... I have lied

...

She looks at him with tear-stained eyes and gives him a push

to make him go and tell the prelates. She is seized by a

deadly fear, she is terrified that a new fit of weakness will

master her before she can put into effect the decision she

has just made. She knows that this decision will probably

lead to her death, but this she feels strong enough to meet.

And now that the first step has been taken she trembles with

impatience. She is weary of the struggle and longs to be

free.

39.

157   The spectators of the scene in the churchyard have still not

returned to the town, but have encamped in a large open space

where booths selling cider and other drinks have been set up.

They are grouped in families on the grass, some of them are

crowding round the booths, and the younger ones are dancing

and singing to the sound of music.

The preceding prison scenes alternate with short shots of

this folklife: dancing bears - acrobats - jugglers - a

musician - a hobby-horse - a dance-leader - a man with a

stick over his shoulder and a cask hanging from the stick -

penny in the bucket - another musician who has fastened

together a drum and a flute, which he holds in the left hand,

with the drum-stick in his right. A wild dance - a man

selling birds - dwarfs - contortionists.

The following prison scene is interrupted by glimpses of the

preparations round the bonfire which is to be lit in the

castle yard: a man carrying firewood to the stake, a broken

carriage-wheel in the fuel, etc.

158   The jailer now finds Cauchon in conversation with Warwick at

the entrance to the chapel. The jailer explains briefly what

has happened in the prison. Warwick and Cauchon exchange

eloquent glances. At the same moment Loiseleur comes out from

the chapel. In a few words Cauchon puts him in the picture

and tells him to assemble some of the judges and notaries.

159   Meanwhile Joan sits waiting impatiently in her prison. It is

evident that she does not make a sacrifice such as hers

without doing her nature an injury. She is racked by deep

despair and her nerves show it. She shivers; her teeth

chatter. She wrings her hands so that her knuckles are

completely white.

160   Finally Cauchon enters, followed by various judges and

notaries. They find the young girl dissolved in tears, her

face contorted. It is a poor, helpless girl of twenty whom

they have defeated.

During the following scene Cauchon exudes an air of

benevolence and satisfaction. In contrast with his earlier

demeanor he is now calm and equable. His feelings are

pleasurable, but it is not a malicious pleasure; he is sure

of his prey!

They sit down, and Cauchon asks Joan why she has sent for

them. With a sob, but also with an expression of

determination, she answers:

I have committed a great sin ...

She has to break off, choked by tears.

40.

161   The judges comfort her and try to alleviate her grief, so

that she can continue:

... I have denied God in order to

save my life.

The judges look at one another. Not one of them is so hard-

hearted as to be untouched by the young woman's genuine

distress.

162   Even Cauchon is moved. It is a moment before he speaks. Then

he says:

So you still believe that you are

sent by God?

Joan nods in confirmation.

163   Again the judges exchange looks. The notary raises his head

from his book. He examines the judges' faces searchingly,

looks at Joan and writes in his notes: 'Fatal answer.'

Cauchon has stood up. However dulled his human feelings may

be, it still goes against the grain with him to send Joan to

the stake, even though she herself is asking to die. He says

in a friendly tone:

But, Joan, you have admitted in

front of everybody that you were

misled by the Devil.

Joan, who has gradually regained her self-control, does not

answer immediately. It is only when the judges press her that

she replies:

Everything I said was for fear of

the stake!

Cauchon holds a whispered consultation with the others, but

it is clear that they all regard it as wasted effort to

continue. Cauchon says:

Have you anything else to tell us?

Joan shakes her head. The judges rise to go. When Cauchon

goes into the adjoining room his eye falls on Warwick, who

has just come up the stairs and now gives Cauchon a look of

enquiry. Cauchon merely says:

It is all over!

Warwick receives the news with no indication of surprise.

41.

Meanwhile the judges have started to go down the stairs, when

Cauchon holds the last two back. They are Ladvenu and

Massieu. Cauchon drops his voice and gives them an order.

164   The two monks go into the cell, where they find Joan sitting

with her hands in her lap. She is now calm and decided. What

is she thinking about? About her home in Domremy - or about

death? Massieu and Ladvenu remain standing by the door. Joan

does not see them, so preoccupied is she with her own

thoughts. They approach with cautious steps, as people do

involuntarily in the house of death. Ladvenu calls to her.

She looks up, surprised to see him. Then Ladvenu says:

Joan, I have come to prepare you

for death!

For a moment silence reigns, so deep that Joan's breathing

can be heard. Then she says in a barely audible voice:

Now ... already?

Ladvenu, struggling with the tears which are muffling his

voice, answers yes. Another long, long silence. Then Joan

asks, almost as if fearing the answer:

What kind of death?

Ladvenu, choked by his feelings, is unable to speak. He makes

a sign for Massieu to answer on his behalf. Massieu says:

At the stake!

A slight shudder passes over Joan's face, but in her soul

there is no longer any struggle or doubt.

165   Ladvenu, who has now regained his self-control, gives Massieu

a quiet order. Massieu goes out hurriedly. When he has gone

Ladvenu says:

How can you still believe that you

are sent by God?

Joan smiles, as if she knows more than other men, and

answers:

His ways are not our ways!

After a pause she adds:

Yes, I am His child!

Ladvenu, moved by this persistent faith, says presently:

And the great victory?

42.

Joan looks at him as if amazed at his asking such a stupid

question. She answers:

My martyrdom ...

Ladvenu nods. He looks at her as at a saint descended from

heaven. Yet he cannot refrain from asking one more question:

And your release?

Joan answers with a look of ecstasy in her eyes:

... Death ... !

Her purity and the sincerity of her faith in God are almost

dazzling to Ladvenu. He gets up. He pities the unhappy Joan,

and is troubled over this soul which is endangered beyond

hope of salvation. He turns to Joan and asks her if she wants

to confess. She accepts his offer gratefully and kneels.

166   Massieu has gone to fetch the Eucharist. A procession of

priests, wearing surplices and stoles, and carrying lights in

their hands, comes out of the chapel and goes in the

direction of the castle yard, singing litanies.

167   Everyone in the castle yard kneels; the women are in tears.

To every entreaty the priests answer:

Pray for her!

168   Presently the procession arrives at Joan's cell, and she

prepares to receive the Eucharist. Ladvenu takes the

consecrated Host in his hands, shows it to Joan and says:

Do you believe that this is the

Body of Christ?

Joan receives the Body of Christ with touching meekness. She

weeps copiously as once again she finds Him from whom she has

so long been kept apart. In the fullness of her heart she

raises her voice and offers to Jesus prayers of a childlike

gentleness and moving quality. The cell door stands open.

169   In the ante-room Loiseleur has come into view. He hears Joan

talking with her Savior and is deeply moved. Even this man's

eyes well over with tears. He is afraid he will be unable to

stifle his emotion and withdraws.

170   The solemn ceremony is over. The monks leave.

171   The jailer comes in with a coat which Joan is to wear.

43.

172   Meanwhile rumors are circulating among the crowd in the area

behind the churchyard that Joan has withdrawn her abjuration.

Now they set out in swarms for the castle, pressing over the

lowered drawbridge leading into the castle yard, where the

English soldiers control the flow in such a way that they

keep the invaders concentrated in one corner of the yard.

Through the gate hundreds of curious sightseers can be seen

climbing up into trees and standing on the parapets of the

bridge in the hope of seeing a tiny fragment of the

unaccustomed spectacle.

173   In between, scenes from the prison are shown. Joan is wearing

a coat that comes down to her feet, which are bare. Her

earlier calm seems to have disappeared. She prays and weeps

incessantly. Ladvenu and Massieu, who have returned to fetch

her, lead her away.

174   Joan has arrived at the castle yard. In her coat she appears

to many of those present as a vision from God. An old woman

approaches, hands Joan a cup of milk, weeps and kneels. The

poor child, who is herself in need of comfort, offers the

woman such comfort as she can, but the English soldiers put

an end to this scene.

175   The stake is erected in the middle of the castle yard.*** The

fuel is piled up on a foundation of stone. The post to which

the victim is to be tied projects over the fuel. The

intention is for thousands of people to witness with their

own eyes that the Maid has really been burnt. A notice-board

is fastened to the stake, with the following inscription:

'Heretic, Relapsed, Apostate, Idolatress.'

Further away there is a platform for the judges and the

English nobility; another is reserved for the preacher and

for spectators.

176   When Joan has taken her place at the stake one of the judges,

Nicolas Midi, stands and begins his sermon:

In the name of the Lord, amen!

177   For Joan it is as if his voice has reached her from far away.

She weeps incessantly, as she watches the executioner's final

preparations; she sees him bending over

178   His coal-bucket; later she sees him, with a knife in his

mouth, uncoiling the rope which is to fasten her to the

stake.

179   Nicolas Midi continues his sermon:

... Like a rotten member we cut you

off from the body of the Church.

44.

The preacher turns to face Joan directly; she listens

attentively and gives an unconscious nod. At the same moment

she sees a flock of doves taking off and flying into the

heavens. Then Nicolas Midi ends his short address:

Joan, go forth in peace ... the

Church is unable to protect you!

Joan, who retains to the end her respect for the Church's

servants, inclines politely and gratefully in his direction.

180   In a loud voice she prays:

Dear God, I accept my death

willingly and gladly ...

Her face becomes more serious and more anguished; she

continues:

... but I entreat Thee, if Thou

lovest me, that my suffering may be

short ...

181   Her lament, mild but strongly spoken, rings through the

hushed square. Everyone holds his breath to hear the

condemned Joan's last words; every eye turns towards her and

watches for her smallest movement. They are deeply affected

by the simplicity she shows, face to face with death. Many

are in tears, even some of the English soldiers.

182   At the end of her prayer she says to Ladvenu, with tears in

her eyes:

Where will I be tonight?

Ladvenu exhorts her to have faith in God: with the help of

the Almighty she will attain her place in Paradise. The

English soldiers grow impatient, and one of their officers

approaches the platform and says:

Look here, priest, are you going to

be all day?

183   Ladvenu insists on his right to prepare the young woman for

death. And he says to Massieu, who is bringing him a small

missal:

Joan wishes to have a cross with

her when she dies!

45.

184   Ladvenu instructs Massieu to fetch one from the chapel, and

with the little missal in his hand he reads the prayers for

those under sentence of death.

One of the English soldiers has heard Ladvenu's words to

Massieu. He extracts two bits of wood from a faggot lying

ready for the bonfire, and joins them so that they form a

modest little cross.

185   Joan, who has followed his movements, is touched. She takes

the cross lovingly and reverently, and covers it with kisses.

186   The English captain is now losing patience, and orders the

executioner to do his duty.

187   Massieu returns with the processional cross. He shows it to

Joan; she is inexpressibly happy as she takes it with both

hands, kisses it with tears in her eyes, and addresses ardent

prayers to it.

188   Now her eye falls on the executioner, who has climbed up on

the other side of her in order to tie her to the stake. He

drops the rope; she picks it up. She is bound brutally to the

stake.

Ladvenu remains standing. During Joan's prayer he remains

holding the crucifix in front of her, so that throughout she

can see her Savior. When the executioner has secured Joan he

descends. Ladvenu continues to speak words of comfort to

Joan.

All around her are now in tears. Loiseleur weeps. Even

Cauchon weeps. The executioner has made his final

preparations.

189   In his hand he holds the flaming torch which is to set the

bonfire alight.

190   Joan suddenly catches sight of the fire, but her first

thought is not for herself: she thinks only of Ladvenu, who

seems to have forgotten the danger he is exposed to. She

shouts to him:

The fire! Get down!

191   But she implores him urgently to continue right up to the end

holding the cross raised before her eyes.

192   The flames crackle and climb higher.

46.

193   Suddenly a deathly hush descends on the square. A dull

silence. Only the crackle of the flames and the mumbled

prayers of the priests can be heard. Oppressed by this

stillness, some of the spectators fall on their knees, and

others follow their example. Many of them light wax candles.

194   The flames leap from one faggot to another ... they advance

in little jumps over cavities and gaps in the fuel. Sparks

fly, smoke whirls up; through the smoke, which occasionally

conceals Joan, can be seen part of her

195   Face, which is raised to heaven, and her mouth, which is

whispering prayers. Then her eyes seek Christ, whom Ladvenu

continues to hold up towards her; Christ who, like herself,

is enveloped in smoke.

196   Through the smoke she sees the executioner stirring the fire,

197   And a soldier on his knees trying to get near enough to the

bonfire to throw the martyr's crown on it.

198   She also sees Massieu, who is sprinkling holy water on the

bonfire from his stoup.

199   Meanwhile the judges have risen. The clerics are not allowed

to witness the actual execution, but their departure is in

the nature of a flight. The eyes of most of them are filled

with tears. They all cross themselves as they withdraw.

200   The English soldiers force a way for them through the crowd,

but as the priests approach the spectators the latter draw

back of their own accord to avoid contact with them. On every

face you can read contempt, in every quarter you can hear the

traitors being taunted as such.

201   Suddenly the first tongues of flame lick round Joan's feet.

She squirms. The things of this earth are vanishing, and

Joan's thoughts are now only of the King of Heaven. In spite

of the pain and terror she does not forget her Christ -

indeed it is as if, with every second that passes, she is

coming steadily closer to Him.

Jesus!

she begins to scream in her long death-struggle.

202   The weeping crowds repeat the name of Jesus.

203   Innumerable tongues of flame, growing constantly in size,

number and fierceness, are now fanning round her.

204   The rope binding her to the stake begins to burn.

47.

205   Joan is frantic with terror:

Jesus!

she screams in her agony.

206   The echo repeats her cry in the sad and silent square. The

bystanders pray in chorus, while the women weep and wail:

Intercede for us ...

Others continue:

... now and in our last hour.

207   Joan's coat is already in flames, consumed by the fire as far

as the knees. Her feet are burning.

208   But the executioner continues piling fuel on the bonfire. An

ominous, infernal silence prevails.

209   Joan screams:

Jesus!   Jesus!

210   But the bystanders, who during these final scenes stand as if

paralyzed by the fire and by Joan's cries, are seized by a

mood compounded of fear and ecstasy. Outbursts of anger and

indignation against the oppressors can already be heard. The

English soldiers take up a threatening posture.

211   The flames climb steadily higher.

212   The notice-board fastened over Joan's head goes up in flames

and falls into the bonfire.

213   A last vision is caught of Joan's face, contorted in terror.

She pronounces once more the name of Jesus, lets her head

slump and gives up the ghost. The tumult grows among the

bystanders, clenched fists are raised in the air.

214   Threatening words can be heard. Then somebody in the crowd

gives free expression to what everybody is thinking and

shouts:

You have burnt a saint!

The cry is taken up, until it is heard from every throat.

215   The rope fastening Joan to the stake has burnt through and

falls in ashes. Joan's body totters and sinks into the

bonfire.

48.

216   At a sign from Warwick the soldiers pursue the mob out of the

castle yard with thrusts of their lances, through the gate

and over the drawbridge, which is then raised. Many fall

victim to the soldiers' brutality or are trampled to death.

217   The smoke rises in a column, concealing Joan.

218   On Warwick's orders the executioner rakes through the fire.

Normally no trace of Joan should remain - but what is this?

Joan's heart is undamaged. He shows it to Warwick and pours

oil on the flames, but still the heart will not catch fire.

He tries in vain, with the help of sulphur and coal, to make

it burn: the flame leaps up, guided by his expert hand, but

when the fire subsides again the executioner finds the heart

still intact. Convinced that he is witnessing a manifest

miracle, he looks questioningly at Warwick, who answers

curtly:

Throw this lot in the Seine!

219   In his anguish the executioner falls on his knees before

Ladvenu, terrified that he will be condemned for having burnt

a saint.

As the sun went down Joan's heart

was sunk in the river, the heart

which from that time became the

heart of France, just as she

herself was the incarnation of the

eternal France.

