THE WHITE RIBBON

Written by

Michael Haneke

1

NARRATOR (o.s.):I don't know if the story that I

want to tell you, reflects the truth in every

detail. Much of it I only know by hearsay, and a

lot of it remains obscure to me even today, and

I must leave it in darkness. Many of these

questions remain without answer. But I believe I

must tell of the strange events that occurred in

our village, because they may cast a new light

on some of the goings-on in this country...

NARRATOR (o.s. continuing):...Everything began,

if I remember correctly, with the doctor's

riding accident. After his dressage session in

the manor's riding school, he was first headed

for his home...

2

NARRATOR: ...to see if any of his patients had

arrived. As it entered the property, the horse

had tripped over a hardly visible, taut wire

that had been strung between two trees.

The doctor's fourteen-year old daughter had

watched the accident from the window of the

house, and was able to inform the woman who was

their neighbor, who in turn got the message to

the manor house, so that the agonizing doctor

could be transported to the hospital of the

district capital that was over 30 kilometers

away...

NARRATOR: ...The neighbor, a single woman of

around 40, was the village midwife, who had

filled the invaluable position of housekeeper

and receptionist for the doctor since the death

of his wife in childbirth.

After tending to the doctor's two children, she

had gone to the school to fetch her own son,

Hans. Since she didn't like leaving him alone,

she asked me - in return for a small fee - to

keep him at the school with me every day, after

the other children had finished their lessons.

But on the day of the riding accident there was

choir practice in the afternoon, so that most of

the children were still present.

MARTIN: Were you at Xenia's place?

MARIE: Can't you say hello? Good afternoon, Mrs.

Wagner, excuse me.

MIDWIFE: Hello, Marie.

3

MARIE: We're so worried, you know. That's why

Martin forgot his manners.

MIDWIFE: That's all right.

MARIE: How is the Doctor?

MIDWIFE: Not very well.

MARIE: Will he have to stay in the hospital?

MIDWIFE: I don't know.

MARIE: We'll take care of Xenia. Maybe, we can

help her somehow.

MIDWIFE (distracted): Good idea. It'll cheer her

up.

MIDWIFE: Well, did you enjoy the singing?

HANS (nods eagerly): It was great!

SCHOOLTEACHER: Show your mother what you've been

singing.

HANS: La... La... lalala...

MARIE: Good-bye, Sir. Good-bye, Mrs. Wagner.

GEORG: Last one is a rotten egg!

4

XENIA (quietly): If you want, I can cut out some

animals for you, as I did last week?

Would you like that?!

We could color them together, no?

Or we could cut them from the lovely colored

paper? The golden one, do you remember? The one

I got for Easter?

Come on, come on.

All right! Now I'm going to make us something to

eat. Mrs. Wagner has prepared everything, I...

RUDOLPH (interrupts her softly, his head still

bowed): What if he never comes back?

XENIA (as if she hasn't understood): What?

XENIA (tenderly): Come on! Don't be stupid! It

goes away just like the flu. Remember last

winter? You were very sick, weren't you? And

then, two weeks later...

5

XENIA: Hush!

GEORG: Hi, Xeni!

MARIE(quietly): How are you? Can we help you?

STEWARD: ...its tendons were almost severed. It

never would have recovered.

LANDOWNER: How did that thing get there? Didn't

the Doctor say anything?

STEWARD (with a snicker): He was in no mood to

talk, with his collarbone sticking out of his

throat. I asked his daughter. She has no idea.

He always rides through those trees.

LANDOWNER: Did you look at the wire?

STEWARD: Of course. It's thin, but strong. You

can hardly see it, if you don't look closely.

LANDOWNER: But why was it tied there?

STEWARD (shrugging): And at knee height! I don't

know... Maybe so the kids could jump over it. No

idea. I don't think the doctor himself was

stupid enough to tie that thing there.

LANDOWNER: Meaning?

6

STEWARD: Meaning: I don't know. Anyway it was

definitely put there intentionally and looks

damn...

TUTOR: I'm sorry, Madame. You're just playing

too well for me.

BEATRIX:   Stop  apologizing   and  concentrate.

That'll be more helpful for both of us.

TUTOR: To tell the truth: You're just playing

too fast for me. I'm not Paganini.

BEATRIX: Well, let's start all over again at the

letter D.

BEATRIX: Listen, darling. If you like the music,

then sit down beside me and turn the pages of

the sheet music. But if you're bored, go up to

your room and at least stay out of my sight. It

makes me nervous if you're constantly sauntering

around in front of me.

BEATRIX (turning to the tutor): By the way, what

time is it? Where is the girl?

7

TUTOR: She's with the twins, I presume. Twenty

to nine.

BEATRIX: Twenty to nine?! (turning to Sigi): You

should have been in bed long ago. (to the

tutor): Has he done his homework?

TUTOR: Of course, Madame.

BEATRIX: All right. (to Sigi): Well, do you want

to turn the pages for me or not?

BEATRIX: Then come here!

BEATRIX (to the tutor): All right, here we go

again: the letter D. Try to play a bit faster.

Or else I might as well play with the village

schoolteacher.

MARIE (quietly): Please forgive us.

MARTIN (following her lead): Please forgive us.

PASTOR: There's no question of forgiving. You

haven't offended me. It's your mother and your

brothers and sisters that you have frightened

away and offended. Ask them for forgiveness.

You amaze me. I didn't know that the two oldest

and therefore most reasonable of my children

wouldn't mind frightening their mother and

brothers and sisters to death.

8

Are you now grown up enough to live on your own?

Are you? Do you want to leave home and start a

life of your own? So you can come and go as you

please, and nobody gets in your way. Is that

what you want?

Nobody at this table has eaten tonight. When it

grew dark, and you hadn't returned, your mother

went all over the village in tears, looking for

you. Do you really think we could've enjoyed our

meal, if we feared something had happened to

you?

Do you think we can enjoy our meal now, when

you've come back and dish up lies as an excuse?

I don't know what's worse: your absence or your

coming back. (PAUSE).

Tonight we shall all go to bed hungry.

PASTOR: You probably agree with me, that I

cannot leave your offense unpunished, if we want

keep living in mutual respect. So, tomorrow

evening at this hour, I shall give each of you

10 strokes of the cane. Until then, you have

time to ponder over your offense. Do you agree

with me?

MARIE and MARTIN: Yes, Father.

PASTOR: All right then. Go to bed now, all of

you.

PASTOR: I refuse to be touched by you. Your

mother and I will sleep poorly because we know I

have to hurt you tomorrow, and because it will

more painful to us than the strokes will be

painful to you. Leave us alone and go to bed.

PASTOR: When you were small, your mother once in

a while would tie a ribbon in your hair or

around your arm. Its white color was to remind

you of innocence and purity. I thought that at

your age you were well-mannered enough to get by

without such reminders. I was wrong. Tomorrow,

once you've been purified by your punishment,

9

your mother will tie such a ribbon on you again,

and you'll wear it until your behavior shows us

that we can trust you again.

POLICEMAN: Where is the wire now?

POLICEMAN: Then who took it away?

XENIA: I don't know.

POLICEMAN: You weren't here?

POLICEMAN:   Did   you   accompany   your   father?   To

town?

XENIA: No.

POLICEMAN: That means you were here.

XENIA: I was in school. Today.

POLICEMAN: And when you left for school, the

wire was still here?

XENIA: I didn't check.

POLICEMAN: And when did you come?

MIDWIFE: At noon. I make lunch for the Doctor

and the kids. Since the death of the Doctor's

wife, I've been helping him out.

POLICEMAN: Since when?

10

MIDWIFE: It's been 4 years. Since the birth of

little Rudolph. I'm the midwife here. We often

work together.

POLICEMAN: But you didn't see anything?

MIDWIFE: No.

POLICEMAN: Do you have any idea how long the

wire had been there?

MIDWIFE: I'd never seen it before.

POLICEMAN (angrily): Let me get this straight:

Nobody saw the thing before, nobody saw it

afterwards. It wound itself around the two trees

all alone, and made itself vanish after the

doctor's fall. Right?

HANS: Mother! ... Look! ...Look... come!

MIDWIFE (reluctantly): What's happening?

HANS: People! ...Lots of people. Come!!

MIDWIFE (to the policeman): Sorry...

NARRATOR: The day following the doctor's riding

accident not only brought no solution to the

question of who'd done it, but a second, far

more tragic incident almost made people forget

the misfortune of the previous day: the wife of

a tenant farmer died in a work-accident.

NARRATOR: The woman, who because of an injured

arm could only do light work, had been dispensed

11

by the steward from harvesting chores, and was

assigned to easier work in the sawmill.

BATHING-MIDWIFE: You stay outside! I haven't

yet...

FARMER (quietly): Get out!

NARRATOR: On the same day, I had a strange

encounter: the weather was beautiful and hot, so

I decided to try and improve my meager menu with

some brown trout, which are plentiful in the

river. The landowner apparently liked me, and

allowed me to fish.

SCHOOLTEACHER (shouts, fearful): Martin!

SCHOOLTEACHER (louder): Martin!!

12

SCHOOLTEACHER: Martin, be careful!

SCHOOLTEACHER: Are you completely insane? ! Do

you want to break your neck? !

MARTIN (his head bowed): Hello, sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What's happening? Are you mad? !

Don't you know how high that is?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Didn't you hear me? I shouted to

you.

MARTIN (after a short silence): Yes, I did.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well?!!

SCHOOLTEACHER: You saw me down there and wanted

to impress me?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well, why didn't you...

MARTIN   (interrupting  him) I  gave  God  an

opportunity to kill me. He didn't do it. That

means, he's pleased with me.

SCHOOLTEACHER (staggered): What are you saying?

MARTIN: He doesn't want me to die.

SCHOOLTEACHER (bewildered):   Who?   Who   doesn't

want you to die?

MARTIN: God.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Why would God want you to die?

13

Promise me never to do such nonsense again. All

right? Look at me.

Promise it to me.

You don't trust me, don't you?

MARTIN (polite, emotionless): Yes, I do, Sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER (concluding): All right. Go home

now. I'll be coming tomorrow for the piano

lesson. I'll talk to your father then.

MARTIN: Please, don't tell him! Please, sir,

don't!

SCHOOLTEACHER: Why?

MATTI: There. Be careful. Everything's rotten

here.

FRANZ: Who made her climb up here?

MATTI: I haven't a clue. They told us to collect

all the lose ends. She just climbed up there.

FRANZ: She could never stand heights. It made

her dizzy.

Who assigned you to this job?

MATTI (uneasy): You know how it works. The

sawmill needed to be cleaned up, and the foremen

pick the weaker harvesters

14

FRANZ: Who picked her?

NARRATOR: It was on my way home after the

strange encounter with Martin that I met Eva for

the first time.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Hello.

EVA (passing by): Hello.

SCHOOLTEACHER (hesitantly): Excuse me!

EVA (Off): Yes?

SCHOOLTEACHER   (embarrassed):  Excuse   me   for

accosting you this way. You're the new nanny of

the Baron's children, aren't you?

EVA (o.s.): Why?

SCHOOLTEACHER: They say you're from Oberdorf.

EVA: Who says that?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Folks around here.

EVA: Oh. So what?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Nothing. I don't know. Sorry. I'm

the schoolteacher here. I just thought I... I

don't know (he laughs embarrassed): when I saw

you, I thought... I'm from Grundbach... I'm the

tailor's son...

EVA: I know.

SCHOOLTEACHER (confused): What?

EVA: The Baroness already told me.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What did she tell you?

15

EVA: That the schoolteacher is from the village

next to mine.

SCHOOLTEACHER (laughs): Oh, I see! Yes. Well...

I thought... (he points at the bag on the

baggage carrier): You look as if you're going

there...

EVA: Where?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Back home. To Oberdorf.

EVA (doesn't understand what he's referring to):

Yes?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Are you going there?

EVA: Yes, I am.

SCHOOLTEACHER (doesn't know what to say): Well,

I thought... since you'll cycle through our

village... you might perhaps...(he's thinking,

looks down and sees the fish): ... say hello to

my father and (laughing at his own idea, he

holds up a fish) bring him one of the fishes.

They're fresh. I just caught them.

EVA: What?!

SCHOOLTEACHER (smiling as if to apologize):

Well. I'm sure he'd be delighted. Especially as

it's the start of the weekend.

EVA: Well, how...

SCHOOLTEACHER:    I     don't    know    either.

Unfortunately, I have nothing to wrap them in.

EVA: Neither have I. Unfortunately.

SCHOOLTEACHER ("amused"): I could give you some

fishing line, to tie them up.

EVA (equally amused): There on the bicycle?!

EVA: I don't think that's a very good idea.

16

SCHOOLTEACHER:    You're   right.   It   was   just   an

idea.

EVA: Yes.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Is that your bicycle?

EVA ("What an idea!"): No! It belongs to the

estate.

SCHOOLTEACHER: I see.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Is this your first day off?

EVA (rather suspicious because all this is too

intimate for her): Yes.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well, you're         probably   looking

forward to being at home.

EVA: Yes, I am.

SCHOOLTEACHER: I can imagine.

EVA says (putting the pedals and handlebar in a

"ready to leave" position): Well. I've still a

long way to go.

SCHOOLTEACHER (stepping back): Of course. Well,

good-bye.

EVA: Good-bye.

SCHOOLTEACHER (with a smile): If you cycle

through Grundbach and see my father, at least

say hello to him from me.

EVA: I don't know your father.

SCHOOLTEACHER: That's true.

EVA: I only learned to ride a bicycle today!

SCHOOLTEACHER (now o.s., also shouting): Well,

you're doing fine! But be careful!

As she picks up speed, Eva rides better and soon

is just a speck on the dusty country road.

17

RUDOLPH: The woman today. What was wrong with

her?

XENIA (eating): Which woman? Oh, I see. She was

dead.

RUDOLPH: What's that?

XENIA: What?

RUDOLPH: Dead.

XENIA: What's dead? My God, that's when someone

doesn't live anymore. When he's stopped living.

RUDOLPH: When does one stop living?

XENIA: When you're too old or very ill.

RUDOLPH: And the woman?

XENIA: She had an accident.

RUDOLPH: An accident?

XENIA: Yes. That's when you hurt yourself very

badly.

RUDOLPH: Like Dad?

XENIA: Yes, but much worse than that. So bad,

that your body can't take it anymore.

Another SILENCE: Then

RUDOLPH: And then you're dead?

XENIA: Yes.      But   most   people   don't   have   an

accident.

RUDOLPH: That means they don't need to die?

XENIA: No, they die much later.

RUDOLPH: When?

XENIA: Later, when they're very old.

18

RUDOLPH: Do all people die?

XENIA: Yes.

RUDOLPH: All of them, really?

XENIA: Yes, everyone dies.

RUDOLPH: But not you, Xeni?

XENIA: Me too. Everyone.

RUDOLPH: But not Dad?

XENIA: Dad too.

RUDOLPH: Me too?

XENIA: You too. But not before a very very long

time. All of us, only in a very long time.

RUDOLPH: And you can't do anything against it?

It has to happen?

XENIA: It has to happen. But not now, not for a

very long time.

RUDOLPH: And Mom? She didn't go on a trip?

RUDOLPH: Is she dead too?

XENIA: Yes. She's dead too. But that was a long

time ago.

PASTOR: There.

19

Here, take the cane and put it back in its

place.

But first you can thank me for trying to protect

you from any further misconduct.

CLOSE ANGLE: Marie.

You know how much I love you and how much it

hurts me to inflict such pain on you. Today was

a very sad day in my life, and I hope for all of

us that it doesn't happen again.

CLOSE ANGLE: Both kiss their father's hand.

CLOSE ANGLE: The pastor.

PASTOR (smiles): And now hug me. There's nothing

we have to forgive each other anymore. I love

you with all my heart.

PASTOR: Now the ribbon, Anna.

PASTOR: This will remain on you until we're all

sure you have learned how to fight bad thoughts

and manners. You're well aware, this year you

will receive Christ's body in the form of bread

and wine. Until then, strive to be free of

sinful thoughts. Now let's eat.

PASTOR (very friendly): Marie, would you say

grace today?

MARIE (smiling eagerly): With pleasure, father.

MARIE: Come Lord Jesus and be our guest

And bless what you've given to us.

PASTOR: Amen. Blessed be this meal.

THE OTHERS: Blessed be this meal.

20

SEPP (surprised, with a whispering voice):

Pauli?!

NARRATOR: That night, the wife of the steward

gave birth to her fourth and last child at the

age of 42.

LIESL (burning with curiosity): What is it?

MIDWIFE (smiling): Well, what do you think?

LIESL(shakes   her   head   impatiently):   I   don't

know.

MIDWIFE: It's a boy.

FERDINAND: Oh God!

21

MIDWIFE: What do you mean?! Don't you want a

brother?

FERDINAND: Pff!

MIDWIFE: You're lucky your father can't hear

you.

MIDWIFE: Stop that!

MIDWIFE: You should be ashamed.

FERDINAND (Suddenly, as if he'd become another

person): Sorry.

FRANZ (hesitantly): Father, I have to tell you

something.

FARMER: What is it?

FRANZ: I went to the sawmill.

The floor, on the first level, where mother

worked, was totally rotten.

The steward, who sent her there, must have known

it. And the landowner too.

Father?!

FARMER (hostile): What do you want?

FRANZ (doesn't understand his father's refusal):

They sent her there knowing it was dangerous.

FARMER (aggressive): What are you getting at?

FRANZ (doesn't understand): But...

22

FARMER (furious, but with forced calm): Do you

want me to sue the Baron? Or kill the steward?

FRANZ: I...

FARMER: Go and cut off his head of with your

scythe. Sure, that'll bring your mother back to

life.

FRANZ (softly): I think our father loved our

mother.

FARMER: Shut up!

NARRATOR: After these two days in July, life in

the village returned to what it had always

been...

NARRATOR: ... The daily harvesting drove the

people almost to exhaustion. Most of the

children were busy helping their parents.

For the time being, the doctor remained in the

hospital. In the meantime the midwife catered

the basic needs of Xenia and Rudolph, his two

children. After the burial of the farmer's wife,

that was attended by the whole village, the two

accidents were soon forgotten...

NARRATOR: ... until the harvest festival at the

end of the summer brought the whole village

23

together again, first in a festive hustle and

bustle, and then in horror and perplexity.

HARVESTER: ...with our songs and our prayers

We've gathered the rye

and given that crown to your lordship.

It is not big, it is not small,

But pretty, nice and fine.

Not with thistles or thorns is it made,

but with pure grain.

Had our lordship sowed more,

The men would've scythed more

And we girls gathered more.

We girls have gathered the grain,

Over mountains and valleys,

Over thistles and thorn,

Over the fields of our lordship.

I wish our lordship a happy life,

As many years as there's sand on the beach

As many years as there are drops in the rain

So much may our lordship be blessed.

And as a reward to be of good cheer

We'd like for our folks a barrel of beer,

And if we could have a fried goose perchance

Then we'll all be ready to dance.

BARON(answering): My thanks to all of you. Thank

you very much. You have worked well and the

heavens were merciful, and now the barns are

full.

Therefore there's more than enough beer, and you

won't starve today.

BARON: Enjoy your meal!! Eat and drink as much

as you wish. You deserve it.

24

BEATRIX: ...didn't you promise us a little

chorale sung by your proteges.

SCHOOLTEACHER: You have to talk to the pastor,

Baroness. We're still busy studying the choir

pieces for the confirmation feast.

BEATRIX (amused): But that's in spring, my dear.

This is the start of autumn.

SCHOOLTEACHER (smiles, embarrassed): I know, but

unfortunately not all of our little singers are

very musical. I'm sorry if...

25

STEWARD: Well, you two "mothers"? Don't you want

to be part of the festivities?

EMMA: It's so nice here in the shade.

STEWARD (in excellent mood): Well, our son seems

to be enjoying that, right?!

EMMA: Yes.

STEWARD: I can imagine. Who wouldn't like that.

EMMA (rebuking him gently): Georg!

STEWARD (to Eva): What about you? Don't you get

bored taking care of other people's children,

with all the young lads over there?

EVA (uneasy, with forced sweetness): No Sir, I

love to be with the children.

How old are you anyway?

EVA: Eighteen, Sir.

STEWARD: Eighteen! And you want me to believe

you'd rather hold the Baroness's baby in your

arms than your true love?

EMMA (good-naturedly): Come on, Georg, leave her

alone.

STEWARD: I'm not doing her any harm. Can you get

us something to eat, Emma?

EVA (stands up, to Emma): If you mind the

children for a moment, I'll get us something.

STEWARD (stands up too): Don't worry, princess,

I'm going. Not to panic.

26

FIRST TENANT FARMER: ...so the guy really tried

to steal the rooster from the steeple. He was

already completely pickled, but even then they

couldn't stop him. A huge, massive guy, you see.

So they just let him go, saying to themselves:

if he falls down, he falls down, that's it. But

he didn't get much farther than the first

window, that's where the trellis ends, see. And

even with all his strength, he couldn't hoist

himself up on the lightning rod. So the guy

stands up there in the window. And what do you

think that idiot does: he starts to crow! He

crows, shouting: I'm the rooster on the steeple.

You'll never catch me! He made such a commotion

that little by little the people in the

neighborhood started to wake up...

FARMHANDS and FARMERS:

More beer, more beer, or I'll fall down, hurray!

More beer, more beer, or I'll fall down.

Has the landlord hung himself,

that he doesn't serve me any beer?

More beer, more beer, or I'll fall down!

LENI: I'm coming. I haven't got a magic wand.

FIRST FARMHAND (with a grin): Shall I help you,

Leni? I'd love to help you.

SECOND FARMHAND (also grinning): What do you

want to help her with?!

FIRST FARMHAND: All over. Front and backside.

27

THIRD FARMHAND (to Leni): Are you as slow with

the Baron?

SECOND TENANT FARMER: Come on, leave her alone

SECOND FARMHAND: You like her that much? Go and

help her.

FOURTH FARMHAND (sitting beside the second,

almost in a whisper): Don't you know: it was her

mother who had that accident?...

BOY: Father, they cut off the Baron's cabbages.

FIRST TENANT FARMER: What's that?

BOY (grin): They cut off the Baron's cabbages.

EVA: I never learned it.

SCHOOLTEACHER (also with a smile): Neither did

I. You just have to count out loud. One. Two.

Three. One. Two. Three. One...

EVA: Aren't you afraid your students might laugh

at you, when they see you dancing with me that

way, sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER (laughs): They'd better not! And

stop being so formal with me. I'm not that old,

am I?

EVA: One. Two. Three. One. Two. Three. One. Two.

Three. One. Two. Three.

SCHOOLTEACHER: You see: we're getting better.

EVA: Well.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Stop looking at your feet.

28

BARON: Quite a job, isn't it?!

BARONESS: This is disgusting.

STEWARD: It used to be an old custom (he

quotes):

"Now that the harvesting's done,

"It's time to pay us, every one,

"Any miser who leaves us in a rut,

"He shall have his cabbage cut.

PASTOR (looking up): Come in

PASTOR: What do you want?

FLORIAN (shy, almost frightened): I'd like to

ask you something, Father.

PASTOR: Yes?

29

PASTOR: So what?

FLORIAN: I have found it. It's wounded.

PASTOR: What do you want?

FLORIAN (pleadingly): May I keep it?

PASTOR: How do you plan to do that?

FLORIAN: We'll heal it.

PASTOR (softly): And when it's healed?

Don't you think, you'll be attached to it then?

Will you let it fly away?

FLORIAN: "Pipsi" also lives in a cage.

PASTOR: Yes, but Pipsi grew up in captivity.

(nodding at Florian's bird): This one is used to

living in freedom.

PASTOR (repeats): Will you set him free, as soon

he's healed?

PASTOR: Have you already asked Mother?

PASTOR: And? What did she say?

FLORIAN: She said, it was for Father to decide.

PASTOR (smiling faintly): That's what she said?

PASTOR: You'll really to take care of it? That's

a heavy responsibility. You know that, don't

you?

30

PASTOR: Well. You're its father and mother now.

We'll have to find a cage for your patient.

FLORIAN: Thanks, Father!

FARMER (to Franz): Is that true?

FRANZ (hostile, keeps on eating): I don't know

nothing.

FARMER (threatening): Is  that - true?!

FRANZ (looks at him, aggressively): Nothing is

true! And even if it was true, so what?! Serves

him right, that miser!

FARMER (trying to control himself): Did you do

it, or did you not do it?

LENI: It seems somebody saw you.

FRANZ (to Leni): So what? They should be glad

that they still have their own heads.(to the

farmer) And I want you to know this, Father: I'm

proud of it!

FARMER (orders Franz without looking at him):

Sit down!

31

FARMER: What did you intend to do?

FARMER: Well?

FARMER: Tell me.

Come on. Tell me:

FRANZ (who   can   hardly   speak):   You   know   why,

Father.

FARMER (after a pause): Because of your mother?

Because you feel they're responsible for her

death? Is that it? What do you think? That I'm

not man enough to settle this? It's that what

you think?

Did you ever think of what your behavior can

mean for the whole family? If Leni loses her

job, which enables us to keep our heads above

water for the whole year? What if we can't work

there anymore during the summer?

You want to marry and take over the farm in two

years? Yes? And how will you feed them all (he

points with his head at the other children)

without the help of the manor, tell me?

32

And how do you know they're responsible?

FRANZ: And how do you know they're innocent?

FARMER says (quietly): I don't know.

FARMER: But I don't know the opposite either.

BARON:...What do you mean "not there"?

TUTOR   (sheepish):   He...  disappeared.    I`ve

already looked everywhere. I can't find him.

BARON: Nonsense. He can't have vanished     into

thin air. When did you see him last?

TUTOR (as above): Around 2 o'clock.

BARON (his anger mounting): Around two? Do you

know what time it is?!

TUTOR (guiltily): I know, Sir.

BARON: What does my wife say, doesn't she have

any clue?

TUTOR: Madame sent me to you,     Baron. She is

beside herself with fear.

BARON (wryly): I can imagine.(looks up to the

tutor): You're an idiot, Huber. Why do you think

you're here? To take care of a single child! Is

that such a hard task?

TUTOR (softly): I'm awfully sorry, Baron.

BARON: You're even too stupid for that.

33

BARON: Where did you see my son for the last

time?

TUTOR: Outside, in the courtyard. He said, he

was going to play with the other children.

BARON: Where?

TUTOR: That he didn't say.

BARON: And      my   wife   didn't   notice   anything

either?

TUTOR: After that business with the cabbage

heads, Madame retired to her room. She was

indisposed.

BARON (sarcastically): Indisposed?!

TUTOR: Yes. She had a terrible migraine attack.

BARON (almost to himself): My God, this place is

a zoo!

BARON: Braker!!

BARON. Have you seen my son?

STEWARD (surprised): No.

BARON (quietly): Could you please ask your boys.

Apparently, Sigi has disappeared with a whole

bunch of kids.

STEWARD:    Immediately.   (shouting    to   the

farmhands): When you're finished with the

cleaning up, wait for me. There's still a job to

do. Get some fresh torches and lanterns!

BARON: In the meantime I'll go round up the men.

34

NARRATOR: The steward's children said, they had

seen Sigi only for a short time, that he had

gone off with other kids, and that they didn't

pay much attention to it...

NARRATOR: ...The search began shortly after

midnight. Before, the Baron had ridden to the

Rectory. But there he found out nothing new from

the children who had been specially woken up.

The searchers, who were tired and some of whom

were still drunk, were divided into two groups:

one group started to search all the buildings on

the estate, one by one, while the others combed

the surrounding areas.

It was around half past two, when some members

of the search party had already preferred to lie

down   somewhere   and   to   sleep  off   their

drunkenness, that the siren suddenly sounded

again, calling the men back to the courtyard...

...They had found Sigi. He had been tied up in

the old sawmill, upside down. His trousers had

been pulled down and his buttocks were bleeding

from cane strokes. He seemed to be in a state of

shock, was unable to walk and had to be brought

back to the manor on a makeshift stretcher,

lying on his belly.

35

NARRATOR: The next Sunday, the Baron, at the end

of the service, asked the pastor if he could say

a few words:

BARON: You all know now what was done to my son

Siegmund. Policemen from the district town were

here this week. They questioned many of you. But

to no avail. First I thought that the people who

tortured my child were the same people who cut

off my family's "cabbage heads"...

...because they wanted to "get even". Get even

for what? Because their mother had died while

she was working in the sawmill, and it was

supposedly  my  fault,   which  is  an  absurd

assertion.

At least, that's what Franz Felder gave as the

motive for his "mowing prowess", when the

policemen arrested him. I have always supported

the farmer Felder and his family, but one can't

always expect people to be grateful. That's a

matter of character.

BARON: Don't run away, Felder. It's your honor I

want to salvage.

It has turned out that the valiant Franz Felder

has been boasting of his feat in front of his

fiancee. Then the coward that he is, hid among

his family, and so he didn't have time to

torture my son. And there's one thing I know for

sure: the senior Felder would rather bite off

his tongue, than cover for his wayward son. May

I remind you something what most of you have

already forgotten. Almost two months ago, the

doctor had a riding accident and he has still

not returned from the hospital. This accident

was caused by a wire that had been strung in his

garden with the explicit intent of bringing him

down. And in that case too, nobody knows

anything, saw anything or heard anything.

36

We all know that the people responsible for the

terrible injuries suffered by my son, and those

suffered by the doctor are sitting here among

us, in this room. I won't tolerate that crimes

of this nature go unpunished. I don't wish

something similar to happen to any of your

children. That's why I call upon you all to help

me find the culprit or the culprits. Ask

questions, keep your ears open, be watchful. If

we fail to find out the truth, the peace within

our community will be gone. Thank you, pastor.

NARRATOR: The landowner's speech frightened the

people. Most knew about the incident at the

Thanksgiving feast. But the majority didn't know

exactly what had happened, and in the end they

didn't care. The Baron was not really popular

among the people, but he was respected as a

powerful social figure, as well as the employer

of nearly the whole village.

NARRATOR: ...His threat about loosing the peace

of the community couldn't mean anything good.

At the same time the mysterious character of

what were obviously criminal deeds fed the

mistrust of the farmers, deeply rooted since

time immemorial.

SCHOOLTEACHER (surprised): Come in!

37

SCHOOLTEACHER (surprised and glad): Eva!

EVA (hardly understandable): May I come in?

SCHOOLTEACHER: What a question. Of course. Come

in. What happened.

SCHOOLTEACHER:   Come   over   here.   It's   so   dark.

Come on.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What's going on?

EVA: They fired me.

SCHOOLTEACHER (startled): What do you mean?

EVA: Nothing. They just threw me out (pause,

then) The tutor has also been fired.

I don't know where to go. I can't go back home

in the middle of the night. I'm afraid to walk

on the road all alone.

SCHOOLTEACHER (calming her down): Don't worry.

Try to calm down. There's nothing to worry

about.

38

EVA (sobbing, childish): There is.

SCHOOLTEACHER (with a calming smile): Come here

and sit down. Please calm down and then tell me

what happened. All right?

Well?!

What happened?

EVA: The son of the Baron isn't at all well. His

parents are angry and desperate. Now they say

that it's the tutor's and my fault, because we

didn't pay enough attention to him. But I'm only

there for the twins.

I've always taken care of them very well. When

you and I were dancing, the Baroness had given

me permission. I haven't done anything wrong,

really.

SCHOOLTEACHER: I know, come on. Stop crying!

EVA: Where shall I go now? We need the money I

was earning here.

SCHOOLTEACHER:   You'll  find   something  else.

Besides, you know very well that the Baron is

quick-tempered. With him, nothing is ever as bad

as it seems.

EVA (fiercely shaking her head):No, no, that's

all over now, I know it. The Baroness doesn't

want to see anyone. She wants to take the

children with her to town or to her parent's

estate  I don't know exactly.

39

SCHOOLTEACHER: (after a pause): I'll try to talk

to her. A while back, we played music together.

(with a smile): Unfortunately, I wasn't very

good. Now she's got the tutor, he plays better.

As far as I know, he's been studying music in

town.

EVA (forgetting her grief a bit): He doesn't

play that well.

SCHOOLTEACHER: That's true.

EVA (after a pause, serious again): Who could

have done such things?

SCHOOLTEACHER: What?

EVA: To beat a child that way.

SCHOOLTEACHER: I don't know.

EVA: Can I stay here tonight?         Don't send me

away, sir, please.

SCHOOLTEACHER: How can you think something like

that?

EVA: I'll just wait for the daylight to come.

Here in the classroom. Then I'll leave.

They won't understand this,      at   home.   They'll

think I did something wrong.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Do you want me to come with you.

40

EVA: What did you say?

SCHOOLTEACHER    (cheerful):   Tomorrow,   after

school? I can try to find us a carriage. I'll be

back by evening.

EVA: And why should you do that, Sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Stop being so formal.

EVA (after a break): Why should you do this?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Come here, I'll play something

for you. If you'd like that.

FRANZ: Good morning, Father.

FRANZ: I'm back again. They set me free.

FARMER: I can see that. So what?

41

FRANZ says (softly): Can't you forgive me,

Father?

FARMER: What do you want me to forgive for? That

the estate won't give me any work now? That Leni

has been fired in disgrace? That your brothers

and sisters soon won't have anything to eat. Is

that what you mean? Or is it something else?

NARRATOR: The next day, after school, I went to

the estate to inquire about Sigi's health and to

intercede for Eva's reinstatement. We were told

the Baroness had left that morning with her

children. Reluctantly, the steward lent me a

carriage to take Eva home.

Just as we were leaving the village, we met the

doctor.

A few days after the Thanksgiving feast,

Rudolph, his four year old son, had suddenly

disappeared. Of course, everybody was terribly

upset in view of all the previous occurrences.

Finally, he was found walking down the road,

scantily dressed for a trip, headed eagerly

toward the town. When he was asked where he was

going, he said he wanted to visit his father.

Seems he fought tooth and nail against being

taken home.

Somebody must have told this to the Doctor.

Since he was scheduled to be released from

medical care anyway, he had prematurely put an

end to his stay at the hospital.

42

DOCTOR (calls several times): Rudi?

XENIA: He was in the living room a short time

ago.

DOCTOR: Rudi? Where are you?

DOCTOR (quiet): Hello, Rudi. Don't you want to

say hello to your father? No?

I heard you even wanted to visit me at the

hospital. And now you lock yourself in?

All right. Then, I don't want to see you either.

I'm going away now. You can stay in the toilet,

if you want.

43

XENIA   says:  Everything  is   ready  in   your

practice.   Mrs.   Wagner  prepared   everything

yesterday.

DOCTOR: Why do you tell me that?

XENIA: I don't know. I just thought you might

want to know.

DOCTOR: Has she taken good care of you?

XENIA: Yes.

DOCTOR: How old are you now?

XENIA: Fourteen.

DOCTOR: It's amazing how much you look like your

mother.

XENIA: Dad.

44

PASTOR: Your mother and I are deeply worried

about you. Think about it. Are you sleeping

badly? Are you overtired?

MARTIN   (as   if   he   didn't   understand   the

question): No.

PASTOR: Do you have problems in school that I

don't know?

MARTIN (as above): No, Father.

PASTOR: You probably don't understand why we

worry. It comes from a sad experience I want to

tell you briefly about:

As you know, I'm also acting as pastor for the

communities of Birkenbrunn and Hebern. In the

latter place, some years ago, a mother came to

see me. She had noticed that her son, who was

about the same age as you, and had the same

symptoms that you've been showing for some time.

Although until then the boy had been healthy and

active,   suddenly   he  showed   a   noticeable

weariness, he had dark rings under the eyes,

seemed depressed and joyless. The boy had also

changed emotionally: before he had been funny,

frank, almost naughty, but now he became

withdrawn. He tried not to look his parents in

the eye, and was caught telling small and even

big lies.

That lasted approximately half a year. Then

everything went very fast: he lost his appetite,

couldn't sleep any more, his whole face took on

the brownish color of the rings under his eyes,

his hands began to shake, his memory stated to

fail him, he was covered with numerous small

pustules, first on his face, then on his whole

body and finally he died. The body, which I

blessed, looked like the body of an old man.

PASTOR: Do you understand now why I'm worried?

PASTOR: So, according to you: what caused these

changes that led to the miserable end of this

boy?

MARTIN (hardly able to speak): I don't know.

45

PASTOR: I think you know well.

Won't you tell me? No?

Then I'll tell you what the cause was: The boy

had learned from someone, who had harmed the

finest nerves of his body, in the area where

God's will has erected sacred barriers. The boy

imitated this action. He couldn't stop doing it,

so that at the end he destroyed all the nerves

in his body, and so much that he died of it.

Look at me, Martin.

I just want to help you. I love you with all my

heart. Look at me.

Be sincere, Martin. Why did you blush and become

so nervous when I told you the story of the poor

boy.

MARTIN: Blushed? I don't know... I felt sorry

for him.

PASTOR: Is that all?

No, Martin, there has to be another reason. It's

written on your face.

Be sincere, Martin. Sincerity brings you closer

to God, our beloved Father, and to all human

beings.

MARTIN (starts to cry): Oh, my God!

PASTOR: Well, Martin, why are you crying? Shall

I spare you that confession? You too have done

what that wretched boy did, haven't you?

MARTIN (crying): Oh my God! Yes.

46

DOCTOR: Careful, my arm.

MIDWIFE: It's great that you're back. It was

about time.

DOCTOR: You can say that. Yes.

MIDWIFE: It was   difficult    with    the    children,

without you.

DOCTOR: I know.

MIDWIFE: He doesn't like me.

DOCTOR: Who?

MIDWIFE: Rudi.

DOCTOR (after a pause): He's at a difficult age.

MIDWIFE: Actually not.

They're always at a difficult age.

DOCTOR (more to himself, with a faint smile):

Yes.

MIDWIFE: You didn't miss me.

DOCTOR: Come on. What are you saying?!

MIDWIFE: Nothing. I said it because it's the

truth.

DOCTOR: There's   nothing   like   a   nice    dose   of

self-hate.

MIDWIFE: What?

DOCTOR: Nothing. Forget it.

47

...us free from all misery,

That has hit us now.

That old evil enemy,

Is serious about it,

Great power and much deceit

Are his cruel armor,

No one on earth resembles him...*

NARRATOR: Winter came early that year. At the

Reformation feast on the first Sunday of

November, a deep blanket of snow covered the

village.

The Baron, who had come back without his family,

didn't attend, which was very unusual for him...

NARRATOR: ...The villagers took that as a sign

of his anger. Indeed, no evidence had been found

as to the possible author of the crime, although

the Baron's appeal had led to a flood of mutual

suspicions,   even    to   some    attempts   of

denunciation that had all turned out to be

untenable.

48

DOCTOR: Well, it's not pneumonia. But you must

be careful. If his temperature rises, call me

again. For the time being you must give these

drops every two hours. And hang some wet sheets

over the oven. That facilitates breathing.

How long has the window been open?

STEWARD: Difficult to say. My wife nursed him at

about one o'clock. When she came back, it was

around half past two. At that time it was icy

cold in this room.

DOCTOR: And the baby didn't cry?

STEWARD: No. The children were upstairs and

didn't hear anything either.

DOCTOR (to the children): He's doing all right,

considering the circumstances. We have to wait.

For now we'll have to wait.

STEWARD: Can I offer you something to warm you

up?

DOCTOR: No, thanks. I'm overloaded with work.

When one has been away for so long...

STEWARD: Georg!

And how is your arm doing?

DOCTOR: It's all right. Everything will be fine

in two or three weeks.

STEWARD: That must be terrible, I imagine. You

probably feel like half a man when you can't use

your arm properly.

DOCTOR: Thank you.

49

DOCTOR (laughs): Quod erat demonstrandum. Thank

you. Well, good night, children.

CHILDREN: Good night, Doctor.

DOCTOR (to the steward who holds the door open):

Thank you. If your wife thinks that the baby...

FERDINAND: Well...

GEORG: What do you mean "well"?

FERDINAND ("dumb question,      it's   obvious"):   I

mean! That's fine.

LIESL (to Ferdinand): When did you go down to

see Father? Down in his office.

FERDINAND: Why?

LIESL: Just asking.

NARRATOR: In mid-December, I finally got a

letter from Eva. Her father had found her a new

job in the district capital, which she would

start at the beginning of the New Year.

Since that night, where she had come looking for

shelter in the school and we had tried to tell

each other the story of our short lives until

the wee hours of the morning, I could no longer

banish from my thoughts her pale face, her shy

but frank personality and her shining hair red.

The school holidays lasted until the morning

after New Year's Day, but already the second day

after Christmas  the weather was cold but sunny

I went on my way to Obersdorf in order to

visit Eva and her parents.

50

EVA says: And Sigi?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I don't know. The Baroness isn't

back yet.

EVA: And the Baron?

SCHOOLTEACHER (shrugs): We hardly see him. He

talks to nobody. I don't know. Some say they've

gone to the south. To Italy.

EVA: To Italy? Really.

SCHOOLTEACHER: They now want to tear down the

sawmill for good. That's what the steward says.

Because it isn't worthwhile to...

SCHOOLTEACHER: Good morning.

FATHER: Good morning, young man.

FATHER: Please be seated. We're not very formal

here.

FATHER (to the children): Scram!

MOTHER: Would you like something to drink?

SCHOOLTEACHER: No, thank you. Very kind.

MOTHER: Really?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Really. Thank you very much.

51

FATHER: So   you're a schoolteacher.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes.

FATHER: Can you afford to have a wife?

SCHOOLTEACHER: My father works as a tailor in

Grundbach. I have an apprentice's diploma. So I

earn quite a bit on the side

FATHER: You should have taken over your father's

business, that would have been smarter.

Well. And why are you so focused on that girl?

She's almost still a child. You could almost be

her father.

SCHOOLTEACHER (smiles): I'm thirty-one.

FATHER (grinning): Well, you can still handle

what matters.

MOTHER (embarrassed): Father!

FATHER: Let's be serious: do you know whether

she's willing to get married. She's still a

child. She hasn't seen anything of the world.

To Eva: Say something. Do you want him?

FATHER: Come on. Don't make such a fuss. He

walked all the way over through the fresh snow.

MOTHER: Why don't you leave her alone.         Of

course, she wants him. Can't you feel that?!

FATHER: How can I? If she keeps her mouth shut!

FATHER: Just sit down. That's how women are. A

bit hysterical, the whole lot of them. Listen.

I'm not a big talker. On one hand, it suits me

for the girl to leave the house. We have a lot

of mouths to feed, as you can see.

52

On the other hand, it's all moving a bit too

fast for me. I don't know you. It's not that I

don't like you, but I need to get some

information about you first. Besides, the town

hairdresser has agreed to take her on as an

apprentice.

That way she'll get to meet people and she can

make up he mind whether she really wants this or

not. And if in a year's time she has stuck to

this idea, we can l talk about it again. And you

can make up your mind too, all right?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I actually thought I...

FATHER (interrupts him): I know, I know. But

it's either that or nothing. You get it?

SCHOOLTEACHER (after a short pause) steps back:

If you insist...

FATHER: Yes, I do.

FATHER: That's it. I'm pleased. Well, business

is waiting. Even on holidays. I'll send the girl

back in so that you can say good-bye. A year

goes by fast. The world won't collapse. And

during your holidays you can come and visit her.

Good-bye.

SCHOOLTEACHER says: Did your father tell...?

EVA: Yes.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Is that all right with you?

EVA: Is that all right with you, sir?

SCHOOLTEACHER (smiles): Don't be so formal with

me.

53

MARTIN'S VOICE: Toni! Are you awake?

Toni!!

ANTON'S VOICE (half asleep): What is it?

MARTIN VOICE: Look.

ANTON'S VOICE: What's happening?

MARTIN VOICE: Look! Look what's happening out

there!!

ANTON'S VOICE: My God, what do you want?

MARTIN VOICE: Over there!! Have a look out of

the window!!

ANTON: Something is burning! Over there at the

estate!

MARTIN: Untie me!

MARTIN: Come on, untie me!

I told you to untie me!!

ANTON: I don't know...

MARTIN: I'll beat you black and blue, if you

don't untie me!

FLORIAN: What's happening? Why can't you be

quiet.

MARTIN: Flori, come over and untie me!

FLORIAN: What's going on?

MARTIN (yells): Untie me, dammit!! You idiots!

It's burning!!

54

FLORIAN: It's burning?

It's burning!

MARTIN (imitates him angrily): OK, it's burning!

Now untie me, godammit!

FLORIAN: But Father hasn't allowed it...

MARTIN (furious): But if there's an emergency,

you idiot. Somebody must warn them! (he yells

loudly: Faaaather!! Mooooother!! Father!

ANTON: Stop shouting. I'll untie you.

FLORIAN: Shall I call Mother?

MOTHER: What's going on here?

MARTIN: It's burning!

MOTHER: I know. Your father has already gone.

MOTHER: What are you doing here? (to everyone):

You all go to bed now. It's nothing. There's a

fire on the estate. You don't need to be afraid.

Go to bed and sleep. Come on, Marie, take your

sisters with you and go to your room. Otherwise

you'll catch a cold.

Why did you make so much noise? You woke us all

up!

MARTIN: I thought it was dangerous.

ANTON (apologizing): I had to untie his hands.

MOTHER (calming them down): Now, everything's

all right again. Tomorrow, Father will tell you

what happened with the fire. All right? Now you

55

all got back to bed. I'll wait till you're back

in bed. It's freezing cold outside.

MOTHER: Good night then. Sleep well.

MARTIN, ANTON, FLORIAN: Good night, Mom!

56

DOCTOR: Wouldn't it be better if you stopped

doing that?

DOCTOR: Why all the effort? Don't look at me so

dumbfounded.

It's not that you lack talent... It's just that

I can't do it with you any more, that's all.

To tell you the truth: you disgust me.

Please finish your work now? I don't want to

spend all night here.

MIDWIFE (quietly): What did I do to you?

DOCTOR (irritated): My God, you haven't done

anything at all. You're ugly, you're messy,

you're flabby and you have bad breath. Isn't

that enough?

The upholstery has to be sterilized with boiling

water

Stop sitting there as if you were carrying all

the world's woes on your shoulders. The world

won't collapse down. Not on you, or on me.

(explains):I just want it to stop, that's all.

I've been trying, but it's just disgusting. I

try to think of another woman when I'm making

love to you, a woman who smells good, who's

young one, one who's less flabby than you, but

my imagination can't handle it. In the end, it's

you again and then I just feel like throwing up

and am embarrassed at myself. So what's the

point?!

MIDWIFE: Are you through?

DOCTOR:(contemptuously)): Yes, I have been for

ages.

57

MIDWIFE: You must be very unhappy to be so mean.

DOCTOR: Oh God! Please, not that routine!

MIDWIFE: I know that I'm not much to look at. My

bad breath comes from my stomach, you know that

very well. But it didn't bother you in the past

when we got together. I already had my ulcer

when your wife was still alive.

DOCTOR: Please spare me these sordid details.

But let me reassure you: it has always disgusted

me. I accepted it, because I wanted to ease my

pain after Erika's death and I didn't care with

whom. I could have screwed a cow. Whores are

unfortunately too far from here and regrettably

once every two months isn't enough for me, even

though I'm getting older. So skip your damn

martyrdom routine and get out.

MIDWIFE (keeps on speaking softly): Why did this

only occur to you now?

DOCTOR: According to you: when should it have

occurred to me?

At the hospital, I had forgotten how tiresome

you were. One grows sentimental when one's in

pain.

DOCTOR (tired): Get out. Why don't you get out.

Don't you have any pride?

MIDWIFE (equally tired): There's no room for any

with you.

DOCTOR: That's true.

MIDWIFE: Aren't    you   afraid   that   I   might   do

something silly?

DOCTOR (laughs with disdain): Go ahead. At least

that would surprise me. But be careful: it might

be painful.

MIDWIFE: I know. I'm ridiculous. You wouldn't

care anyway.

DOCTOR: Well...

58

MIDWIFE: Why do you despise me? For helping to

raise the boy? For watching you fingering your

little daughter and not saying a word?

For helping you to deceive yourself? For

listening to you claim how unique your love for

Erika was, though the whole village knew, how

badly you treated her?

For loving you, although I know you can't stand

being loved?

DOCTOR: That's it. Now leave me alone. I've got

work to do.

MIDWIFE: You can't afford to get rid of me. Who

would do the dirty work for you, who would help

you with the children, and here in you practice?

You're not speaking seriously. You just want to

see how far you can go, don't you: will she

still put up with it or can I drag her even

lower through the mud?

I'm tired too. I've got two retarded children:

Hans and you. You're the one that gives me most

trouble.

DOCTOR: My God, why don't you just die?!

59

NARRATOR: The year was coming to an end with

fine weather. The sun made the snowy landscape

sparkle so brightly that it hurt the eyes.

None of us suspected that it would be the last

time a year moved on to the next in an era of

peace, and that that same year a radical change

would take place of which no one had the

faintest inkling...

NARRATOR: ...Despite of the strange events, that

had unsettled the village, we thought of

ourselves as united in the belief that the life

in our community was God's will and worth

living.

PASTOR: ... I take of this ribbon from you, in

the belief that from now on you'll no longer

need it.

You, Marie, will be accepted this year as a full

member of the church community. You will receive

60

Christ's body as bread and as wine. May the time

of preparation for the confirmation feast be one

of happiness and enrichment.

And you, Martin: from now on you shall not only

be free of that ribbon, but also from those

nightly ties that were intended to save you from

yielding to the temptations of your young body.

For in a house full of festive expectation, you

too, on your own, shall make your contribution

to mental and physical purity.

I trust in you, my beloved children, and wish

you a profitable and happy new year.

NARRATOR: Shortly after Easter, in the last week

of April, the Baroness came back with the

children. She was accompanied by a new nurse.

Thus my secret hope that Eva would be able to

come back here, had definitely been dashed.

The nurse was a chubby, middle-aged Italian who

came, as everybody soon learned, from the town

on the Mediterranean coast where the Baroness

had spent the winter.

FERDINAND'S VOICE: Sigi!

SIGI: Hi, Ferdinand!

FERDINAND: Wait! I'm coming down!

61

BARONESS:   Stay   here,   Sigi,   you   can   see   him

later.

NURSE (in Italian): Let him go, Signora! He's so

happy to be home again.

BARONESS (muses, then smiles): All right, you

can go. But don't stay too long.

BARON (calling): Beatrix? Beatrix, where are

you?

NURSE (calls in Italian): Sigi. Don't you want

to come say hello to your father?

MARIE: Watch out, he's coming!

62

Be quiet! For God's sake! Be quiet!!

QUIET!!!!

SCHOOLTEACHER: What's going on here? Why are you

still here? You know that there's a confirmation

class now! Get out!

How about saying good-bye?

Good-bye, Sir! Good-bye, Pastor!

SCHOOLTEACHER: I'm sorry, Pastor. It won't

happen again.

Good-bye, Pastor.

PASTOR: Good-bye.

Let us pray.

Sit down.

63

This is a very sad day for me.

In a few weeks, we all want to celebrate the

confirmation feast together.

For many months I have tried to bring God's word

closer to you, and to make responsible human

beings out of you in His spirit.

And what do I face today? A horde of yelling

monkeys,   without  any   discipline   or   human

dignity, as childish as the seven-year olds,

with whom you're sharing this classroom.

But what makes me even sadder is the fact that

my own daughter is playing the leading role in

this pitiful display.

Last year I bound a white ribbon in her hair.

Well, you all know that white is the color of

innocence. The ribbon was meant to help Marie to

avoid sin, selfishness, envy, indecency, lies

and sloth.

Well, at the start of the year, I was naive

enough to believe, that now, in the year of her

confirmation, she'd become mature enough, and

that she wouldn't need that ribbon any more

I believed that she felt responsible, being the

daughter of the spiritual leader of a Christian

communi...

RUDOLPH (softly): Xeni?

RUDOLPH (as above, anxiously): Xeni? Where are

you?

64

XENIA (startled, her face tearstained): Rudi?!

XENIA: What are you doing here? Why aren't you

in bed?

RUDOLPH: I can't get to sleep.

XENIA: That's why you're wandering around like a

ghost in the middle of the night?

RUDOLPH: I woke up and you weren't there.

XENIA (trying to smile): Dad has pierced      my

earlobes.

RUDOLPH: Does it hurt?

XENIA: Yes, a bit.

RUDOLPH: That's why you're crying?

XENIA (tries to smile): I'm not crying any more.

DOCTOR (trying to joke): Beauty has to suffer.

That's what they say. At least for girls...

DOCTOR: Now go to bed again. You too, Xeni.

XENIA: Yes.

I haven't worn earrings for a long time, that's

why my earlobes grew back again.

For Whitsun feast, when we all want to look our

best make ourselves look beautiful, I'm getting

new earrings. The ones that Mom had, with

garnets...

65

NARRATOR: A few days after Marie's fainting-fit

that frightened us all, and that was followed by

her feverish and debilitated state...

NARRATOR:...I went to see the steward, because I

wanted to borrow the carriage for the Whitsun

holidays again.

Since my marriage proposal, Eva had written me

once a week, and I got the feeling that she felt

lost and alone in the city, and was asking me

between the lines to come to see her again,

despite of her father's interdiction.

I wanted to spend Whitsun Saturday with her so

that I could be back on Sunday again and prepare

the confirmation feast with the pastor.

The steward had gone to the sawmill, but was

supposed to be back any minute. His wife, who

was busy preparing for Whitsun, asked me into

the living room and to wait there for his

return.

66

LIESL: Good morning, Sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Hello, Liesl..

SCHOOLTEACHER: He's cute..

LIESL: Yes, he is.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Do you like him.

LIESL: Yes. Very much.

SCHOOLTEACHER: He was very sick last winter, I

was told.

LIESL: Yes. Very sick. But the doctor cured him.

With God's help.

SCHOOLTEACHER:   Maybe,  I'll   pop  back   this

evening.

LIESL: I'm sure Father will be back for coffee

at four.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Then, I'll go sit down again next

door.

LIESL: Can I bring you something?      A   cup   of

coffee. I'm sure it's ready.

SCHOOLTEACHER (smiling at her eagerness): No,

no. Thanks.

I'll sit down over there again and just wait.

67

LIESL says: Sir!

SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes?

LIESL: Can dreams come true?

SCHOOLTEACHER: That depends, why?

LIESL(serious): On what?

SCHOOLTEACHER (smile): On what does it depend?

Well if you dream of getting the first prize at

the school feast, and study hard for it, then

your dream can come true.

LIESL, shakes her head, quietly: That's not what

I meant.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well, what did you mean then?

LIESL: I mean, if you dream something in your

sleep, I mean, if you really dream it in your

sleep, can it come true?

SCHOOLTEACHER (also serious): Why, what did you

dream?

Come on, tell me. You have something on your

mind, haven't you?

LIESL (crying): I always dream such horrible

things.

SCHOOLTEACHER (dear): Tell me what you've been

dreaming?

Take this. Now, calm down again. And then tell

me what's going on.

LIESL: Thanks.

68

SCHOOLTEACHER: All right. Now go on.

LIESL: I dreamt that the Hansi  the midwife's

odd little boy ...

SCHOOLTEACHER (reassuringly): I know, I know.

LIESL: - ...that something very bad is going to

happen to him.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Something very bad?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Like what?

LIESL: I don't know. Something like what

happened to Sigi not long ago. But even worse.

But he's so sweet. He harms no one.

SCHOOLTEACHER: All right. All right. That was

just a dream. You needn't take it so seriously.

LIESL (crying): They always make fun of him,

because he doesn't really...

SCHOOLTEACHER (calmly): Yes, I know, but nobody

will do him any harm, you can be sure of that.

Do you want my handkerchief back?

SCHOOLTEACHER: What gave you the idea that your

dream would come true?

SCHOOLTEACHER (now "reasonable" in order to

"calm her down"): Dreams don't come true. Let

alone that kind.

LIESL(serious): But sometimes my dreams do come

true.

69

SCHOOLTEACHER: What do you mean?

LIESL says: Last winter, before Putzl (she

points to the baby) became ill, I dreamt that my

brother put him beside the open window, so that

he'd die.

And the day the window was open and he caught a

chill and he almost died.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What are you saying there? That's

complete nonsense!

SCHOOLTEACHER: Somebody probably didn't close

the window properly.

What gave you that idea? Why would your brother

do such a thing?

LIESL,(defiantly, as he's not believing her):

Because he's jealous.

SCHOOLTEACHER: And because you believe that, you

dreamt it. It doesn't mean anything at all. It's

just a coincidence.

LIESL (keeping her head bowed): All right.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Look at me.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Don't tell such stories to

anybody!

You obviously don't realize the harm you can do

with it.

You didn't tell the story         to   your   parents,

didn't you?

All right then.

Forget it quickly.   I   shall    forget     it,   too.

Promise?

Promise?

70

Good.

Now can I have my handkerchief back...

Thank you.

Now, we both have a secret. And you promise me

that it will remain a secret between us. All

right?

Yes?!

LIESL (reluctantly): Yes.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well. All right then.

You don't have to worry. Nothing will happen to

Hansi.

(smiling): Nobody is jealous of him.

Dreams don't come true. That only happens in

fairy-tales. Forget all about it.

Do you know what they did to little girls who

predicted the future in ancient times? They

burned them at the stake as witches.

71

NARRATOR: We had arranged to meet at the town

railway station, since Eva wanted to avoid being

seen with me. She was living with distant

relatives,   who    were    apparently   reporting

regularly to Eva's parents about her life-style.

She had become thinner which made her even

prettier, and once again I was ravished by her

mixture   of   shyness    and    almost  childlike

outspokenness.

EVA (imitating somebody): ..."...You want your

hair parted r to the right or to the left?" "How

about one parting to the left and one to the

right"?

All the people in the saloon were laughing their

heads   off.    Even    Mr.    Murer,   who's   so

distinguished that he never cracks a smile, had

to laugh.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Then, it isn't really so awful,

is it?

EVA: No. But sweeping up hair all day  honestly

the twins were more fun, I must say.

But it's all right. I can't really complain.

SCHOOLTEACHER: No?

EVA: No. Really.

SCHOOLTEACHER (smiling): And apart from the

twins, there's nothing you're missing?

EVA: Oh, you of course!

72

EVA says: And how is the nurse? Does she only

speak Italian?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I   don't   know.   That's   what   the

steward told me.

EVA: I see.

EVA: Where are you going?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Over there, into the forest

beside the brook. We can picnic over there. I

brought a basket of food.

EVA (softly): I don't want that.

SCHOOLTEACHER (perplexed): Why?

What's going on?

EVA: Nothing. Please.

SCHOOLTEACHER:   But  I   don't  want   anything

forbidden from you. I just wanted you to enjoy

the picnic.

EVA: Please.

SCHOOLTEACHER (astonished): Do you think, I

might want to bring disgrace on my future wife?

All right then. I'll turn over there.

EVA: Thanks.

73

PASTOR:

Accept and drink!

This is the blood of the New Testament,

Shed for the forgiveness of your sins.

Accept and drink!

That is the blood of the new will,

spilled for you so that your sins         will   be

forgiven.

VOICES: Hansi? Where are you? Give us a sign!

Hansi, where are you?

MAN'S VOICE(calling): Over here. He's here.

74

FOR I THE LORD YOUR GOD AM A JEALOUS GOD,

VISITING THE INIQUITY OF THE FATHERS UPON THE

CHILDREN TO THE THIRD AND THE FOURTH GENERATION

OF THOSE WHO HATE ME.

NARRATOR:   After    this   intricate  atrocity

committed on the retarded boy, even the Baron

was finally convinced that it would be more

intelligent to call upon the professional help

of the county's police force.

So a few days later a couple of plainclothes

policemen arrived and, after a visit to the

several of the crime scenes, started to ask in

various homes if anyone had noticed anything

suspicious.

NARRATOR: After learning of Hansi's torture, I

didn't think at first of what Liesl had told me.

When it came back to my mind, I at first

hesitated to tell the authorities about it.

Because of such an absurd coincidence, I didn't

want to jeopardize the reputation and inner

peace of the steward's family.

But when I heard that Hansi might loose his

eyesight because of his injuries, one afternoon

I made Liesl come to school and tell the police

officers about her dream.

FIRST POLICE OFFICER: ...Thank God, we're not as

stupid as you might think.

75

LIESL (crying, desperate): But I only dreamt it.

FIRST POLICE OFFICER: Now listen carefully! I'll

give you a last chance: you tell me, who told

you about the plan to torture the boy, and we

won't tell anybody who told us. All right?

SCHOOLTEACHER:   She's    already   dreamed   of

something that has come true.

FIRST POLICE OFFICER (ironic): Is that so? And

what was it, if I may ask?

SCHOOLTEACHER (wanting to spare her      talking

about it): Something that happened       in her

family.

FIRST POLICE OFFICER (just as before): I see.

Something to do with her family. And have you

checked if it was true?

SCHOOLTEACHER (irritated): No.

FIRST POLICE OFFICER (scornfully): Well, all

that may be true. Maybe we're really dealing

here with an authentic clairvoyant, and we don't

realize how lucky we are. Maybe we only need to

ask her, who's behind all this. The we send her

to bed, she dreams a bit, and tomorrow she tells

us who did it. How about that? Everything's

possible, isn't it?

Stop crying!

Your deceitful whining won't work with me. I've

got other ways to make you talk. I don't believe

in witches and magicians, let alone that a

chubby little girl like you has supernatural

hallucinations. Therefore you'd better get used

to the idea of telling the truth, because you

won't bet rid of me until you've come clean. Is

that clear?

All right, and now we're going to visit your

parents to see what they think of your version

of the story.

76

I'd be grateful if you came too.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Of course.

FIRST POLICE OFFICER: Oooops! What do we have

here?

MARIE (kindly): Good afternoon. Good afternoon,

Sir.

CHILDREN (as before): Good afternoon. Good

afternoon, Sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Good afternoon.

FIRST POLICE OFFICER: Why are you eavesdropping?

MARIE (politely): We saw from outside that the

schoolteacher was having visitors. We didn't

want to intrude. We were just waiting to talk to

the schoolteacher.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What do you want?

MARIE (as if she was too shy to talk in front of

strangers: We wanted to ask you something about

Hansi.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What is it?

MARIE (hesitates a moment, then "screws up her

courage" and asks): We heard he isn't well. We

just wanted to ask if we could be of any help.

77

DOCTOR (softly): All right... Everything's all

right, Hansi... I know, it hurts... You've got

to be patient... everything will be fine

again... everything...

I have to go now, Hansi. Don't worry, I'll be

back tomorrow.

MIDWIFE: It's all right, Hansi. Don't be afraid.

The Doctor will be back.

78

GEORG (threatening): If you rat on me, you'll be

sorry!

PASTOR: Come in!

PASTOR: Yes?

PASTOR (not really understanding): What is it?

What do you want?

FLORIAN (softly): For Pipsi. (PAUSE. Then even

more softly): Because Father is sad.

PASTOR: Thank you.

79

FLORIAN (as apprehensive in front of his

father's perceptible emotion): You're welcome,

Father.

STEWARD: Give me that whistle!

GEORG: I beg your pardon?

STEWARD (forcedly, with threatening calm): Give

me that whistle!

GEORG: What whistle?

Give it to me!

GEORG (on the ground): What whistle?

STEWARD: Give away it to me, or I'll kill you.

GEORG (half moaning): I have no whistle.

80

GEORG (screaming): Ouch! ...Ouch!!

STEWARD (beat): You bastard, you wretch!

GEORG (scream): Ouch! Ouch! !! Please don't

EMMA: For God's sake, Georg, what are you doing?

What has the boy done?

STEWARD: For the last time: give it to me!

GEORG (almost crying with pain): But I don't

know what you mean, Father.

EMMA: What's going on? What are you talking

about?

STEWARD (to Georg): You know exactly what I

mean.

EMMA: But if he says so! Georg! What's going on?

EMMA (excited): Georg! Please wait! What did the

boy do?! Please, tell me! Why are you so

furious?

EMMA (imploring, "reasonable"): Georg! Please!

Calm down. If you could tell me...

STEWARD (also "reasonable", in order to get rid

of her): Please don't interfere. Leave me alone

now! I have to go back to the Baron. He...

81

EMMA: Georg! Please! Stop it! Don't kill him...!

BARON: ... with the birches over there in Aigen

that should make about six-thousand cubic

meters. Working steadily, they should have

finished it within three weeks. If until the end

of the month we...

BARONESS (interrupts him): I won't stay here.

BARON (doesn't understand): What did you say?

BARONESS: I won't stay here.

BARON (turns around to her): What do you mean

BARONESS: What I mean is that I shall leave with

the children.

BARON: What do you mean: you're leaving with the

children?

BARONESS:   Come  on,   Armin!  It's   not   that

difficult to understand, is it?

BARON: May I ask you how you plan to do that?

BARONESS (quiet): I don't know yet. But in any

case, we're leaving this place.

BARON (sarcastic): We.

BARONESS: Yes.

82

BARONESS (to the maid): I don't need you any

longer. Thank you.

MAID: Good night, Baroness. Good night, Baron.

BARONESS: Good night.

BARONESS: I returned from Italy only out of

deceny toward you. I wanted to give us a chance.

BARON (turns around): You wanted me "to give me

a chance"?!

BARONESS: Yes.

BARON: Well, that's brilliant! And did I miss my

chance? Or what?

BARONESS (quietly): Do you think that will help

us solve the problem?

BARON: What?

BARONESS: Your sarcasm.

BARON: Actually, what is the problem that has to

be solved?

BARON (suddenly yelling): You stay here!!

BARON (softer): You only leave this room if I

tell you to do so.

BARONESS: Fine.

BARONESS: I wanted to spare you this, but you

force me to do it:

During our stay with Uncle Edoardo I fell in

love with a man. He's from Lombardy, he works in

the banking business and helped Uncle Edoardo in

a financial matter. He courted me and was also

very fond of the children. If Sigi has blossomed

and grown so healthy, it's largely thanks to

him.

Despite all this, we came back.

Because I feel committed to you. But I can't

stand this place any longer. Not so much for me

personally, though I can't say that life with

you is exactly thrilling for a woman of my age.

But if I leave this place, it's because I don't

83

want Sigi, and later the twins, to grow up in

surroundings dominated by malice, envy, apathy

and brutality. What happened with Sigi's whistle

was the last straw. I'm sick and tired of

persecutions, threats and perverse acts of

revenge.

BARON: Did you sleep with him?

BARONESS   (laughing   scornfully):   You   don't

understand anything.

BARON: Did you sleep with him?

BARONESS (quietly): No. I didn't sleep with him.

BARON: You're lying, aren't you?

BARON (irked): Come in!

STEWARD: Good evening. Could I talk to you for a

moment, Baron?

BARON (annoyed): Can't it wait until tomorrow?

STEWARD:   It's  really   urgent.   Normally,  I

wouldn't have disturbed you so late.

BARONESS: What's going on?

84

BARON: They've shot the heir to the throne of

Austria. In Sarajevo.

NARRATOR: The news spread around the village

like wildfire. What would the consequences be?

The first person who spoke the word WAR, was

severely contradicted. But once it had been

uttered, it remained at the center of all our

thoughts in a curiously stubborn way.

I wanted to go to the town as quickly as

possible, in order to discuss it with Eva, what

we should do if war broke out. Perhaps her

father would now agree to an earlier marriage.

I asked the Baroness for the bicycle, with which

Eva had visited her parents some time ago. The

following weekend I planned use it to ride to

town and see her.

NARRATOR: When I went to the estate on Friday

evening to pick up the bicycle, so I could take

it with me to the school, and get going early,

as the trip was a quite long one, I witnessed a

strange confrontation:

STEWARD: ...completely mad! Go if you want.

He'll throw you out on your ear.

Slandering other people and creating trouble.

That's all we need now!

Get out and never come back again! This is

unbelievable!

Go ahead, do whatever you think you have to do!

You're hysterical!

MIDWIFE (simultaneously): ...I'll go to the

Baron. We'll see what he says. You won't silence

me. Who do you think you are?! You'll see. I'll

85

tell him that you tried to prevent me from

giving the police a statement.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Good afternoon, Mrs. Wagner.

What's happening?

MIDWIFE (very excited): Good afternoon. Can I

borrow your bicycle?

SCHOOLTEACHER: It's not mine.

MIDWIFE: Could I borrow it just the same?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I just borrowed it myself.      I

going to ride to town, to see my fiancee..

MIDWIFE: Please! Lend it to me!

SCHOOLTEACHER: Why do you need it? Where do you

want to go?

MIDWIFE: I must go to town.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What for?

MIDWIFE: I asked the steward for a carriage, but

that stubborn fool won't agree to anything.

Please! Lend me the bicycle.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Why? What is going on?

MIDWIFE: I have to go to the police in town. I

now know who committed all these crimes.

SCHOOLTEACHER (flabbergasted): Who?

MIDWIFE: Will you let me have the bicycle?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Why don't you tell me?

MIDWIFE: From now on I shall only talk to the

police. I won't let them insult me (turning to

the steward's house): As you just saw.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Can't the doctor can lend you his

horse?

MIDWIFE: I don't know how to ride.

86

MIDWIFE: Please! Believe me! (She hesitates and

adds, now quietly and imploringly):

My son told me who did it to him. He may loose

his eyesight.

Please, you let me have the bicycle!

Thanks!

NARRATOR: The state that woman was in, who I

knew was level-headed, had deeply impressed me.

What had her son told her, that she didn't dare

tell anybody?

NARRATOR: With each step I took from the estate

back to the school, I felt more foolish for

having given away the bicycle.

As I passed the midwife's house, I saw Marie,

Martin, and a few other children in the garden.

MARIE: Good evening, Sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Good evening, Marie.

CHILDREN: Good evening, Sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What are you doing here?

MARIE: We wanted to see how Hansi was doing.

SCHOOLTEACHER: But can't       you   see   that   the

shutters are closed.

87

MARIE: Yes. We were worried. We saw Mrs. Wagner

riding off on a bicycle. So we wondered what had

happened to Hansi.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Go home now. Nobody said you

could come in here.

SCHOOLTEACHER: You better go back home now,

hurry.

MARIE: Good evening, Teacher.

SCHOOLTEACHER (reluctantly): Good evening.

NARRATOR: Then I thought of Liesl's dream again.

What if Liesl hadn't dreamt, but had known, that

Hansi was going to be tortured. Whose crimes did

she know of? Whose name had she refused to

reveal?

The strong interest of the children in Hansi

seemed strange to me, considering that they had

usually refused to have any contact with him

because of his disability, or only dealt with

him in a rather disdainful manner.

Suddenly I wondered why the midwife had closed

the shutters of the house. Nobody in the village

ever shut their house. Why had the midwife

locked her boy in?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Hansi? Can you hear me? Hansi!

88

NARRATOR: If the midwife couldn't take care of

him, she would have entrusted the boy to me, or

to the doctor. But since the night he was

mistreated, I hadn't seen him again.

I decided to ask the doctor directly.

The doctor's practice is closed

until further notice

PASTOR'S WIFE: His daughter? Wasn't she with you

at your school?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes, she was.

PASTOR'S WIFE: And she didn't say anything?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I have a request.

PASTOR'S WIFE: Yes?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Could I ask Marie and Martin?

PASTOR'S WIFE: Don't you want to wait for my

husband? He's at the church. The service will be

over in a quarter of an hour. But if you insist.

Please, come in.

Please be seated. Please. I'll fetch the kids

for you.

89

MARIE and MARTIN: Good evening, Sir.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Good evening.

THE PASTOR'S WIFE: Don't you want to sit down?

SCHOOLTEACHER (who hasn't thought of it): Yes.

Perhaps. With pleasure.

PASTOR'S WIFE: Can I offer you something? ,

(smiling faintly): A cup of coffee? Like during

the piano lessons

SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes, with pleasure. That's very

kind of you.

PASTOR'S WIFE: I'll be back in a minute.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Did you know that the Doctor was

leaving Eichwald?

MARIE: No.

SCHOOLTEACHER: But you don't seem surprised at

my question.

MARIE: Our mother told us when she came to fetch

us.

SCHOOLTEACHER:   And   Xenia   didn't    tell    you

anything about it?

MARIE: No.

MARTIN: No.

SCHOOLTEACHER (incredulously): Not a word? It's

very unusual for a child not to tell his

classmates before going away on a trip.

MARIE (unimpressed):   Xenia   never    talks   much

about home.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well, that's something completely

different?!

90

SCHOOLTEACHER: I get the feeling you're hiding

something from me.

MARIE: What?

SCHOOLTEACHER: That's what I'd really like to

know.

SCHOOLTEACHER: When you were looking for Hansi a

while ago, what did you want from him?

MARIE : We were worried. He's ill.

SCHOOLTEACHER: I'm asking Martin.

MARTIN: Yes. He isn't well. And since his mother

is gone... we thought, we should go and pay him

a visit.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Did you ever ask yourselves who

could have treated Hansi that way?

And Sigi?

And who tied the wire in the doctor's garden?

And who set fire to the barn?

Well?!

MARIE: Yes, of course we wondered.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Well?

MARIE: We discussed it with Father. He said it

must be a sick person.

SCHOOLTEACHER:    Sigi   was    with    you at

Thanksgiving. And so was Hansi.

MARIE: I don't understand.

SCHOOLTEACHER: What did they do to you?

MARIE (doesn't seem to understand): Who?

91

SCHOOLTEACHER: Sigi and Hansi?

MARIE (as above): Why?

SCHOOLTEACHER:   They    obviously   were   being

punished. For what?

MARIE (as above): I don't know.

SCHOOLTEACHER: Liesl foresaw that Hansi would be

punished? What for?

MARIE (as above): I don't know.

Why do you ask us?

SCHOOLTEACHER:   You're  an   intelligent   girl,

Marie. Don't try and play dumb.

MARIE: I don't understand you, Sir. You should

talk with Father about this or with Mother.

Shall I go get her?

MARIE: Martin, would you please get her?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Stay here, Martin: I'll talk to

your parents when I consider it's the right

time. Now, I'm talking to you. And I expect you

tell me the truth.

Where were you on the evening Hansi was found?

MARIE (doesn't seem to understand): At home.

SCHOOLTEACHER: I mean after the confirmation?

PASTOR'S WIFE: There we are. The coffee will be

ready in a minute.

Were the children able to help you?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I'm afraid not. They don't know

anything, either.

PASTOR'S WIFE: That's really odd. A doctor can't

vanish into thin air. What about his patients?

92

(to the children) Didn't his daughter tell you

anything at school?

SCHOOLTEACHER: No. I'm sorry if I disturbed you.

PASTOR'S WIFE: Why don't you stay? My husband

will be back any moment, and the coffee is

almost ready.

SCHOOLTEACHER: That's very kind of you, but I'm

really worried about the midwife's son.

PASTOR'S WIFE: And she didn't say when she'd be

back?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I didn't ask her. She caught me

off guard. She was completely panicked.

PASTOR'S WIFE: Strange... Wait a second! I think

that's my husband.

PASTOR (surprised to see the schoolteacher):

Good evening.

PASTOR'S WIFE: Good evening. The schoolteacher

has been anxiously waiting for you.

PASTOR (to the schoolteacher): Yes?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes. I'd like to have a quick

chat with you.

PASTOR: Please. We'd better go to my study. It's

quieter there.

PASTOR: Well, how can I help you?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I spoke to the midwife today: she

said she now knew who tortured her son.

PASTOR ("who"?): She does?

93

SCHOOLTEACHER: She'll only     tell   the   police.

That's why she went to town.

PASTOR (doesn't quite understand        what    the

schoolteacher is getting at): Well?

SCHOOLTEACHER: She left the boy behind alone and

has locked the whole house.

PASTOR: Locked it?

SCHOOLTEACHER (nods): I went to the doctor's

next door to ask him what was going on, whether

he was taking care of the child or... But

there's a piece of paper saying that the

practice is closed until further notice. The

doctor and his children have disappeared.

PASTOR (stunned): What do you mean?

SCHOOLTEACHER (shrugs): I don't know. I thought

you might have been informed. That's why I'm

here.

PASTOR: I have no idea.

PASTOR: Xenia... Wasn't his daughter in school?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes, she was. She never mentioned

anything.

SCHOOLTEACHER : I asked Marie and Martin. They

both know nothing either.

PASTOR   (looks   up   to    the  schoolteacher,

"stunned"): Why should they?

SCHOOLTEACHER: I don't know. When I went to the

midwife's place, they were there with a few

others in the garden.

PASTOR ("doesn't understand"): To do what?!

SCHOOLTEACHER: They were looking for the boy.

PASTOR (as before): Why?

SCHOOLTEACHER: They wanted to help him.

PASTOR: So what

94

SCHOOLTEACHER (hesitates, then says): I don't

know how to say it. I have the feeling they're

hiding something.

PASTOR (refuses): What?

SCHOOLTEACHER (keeps on searching hesitantly for

his words): I don't know. (finally he dares to

come out with his suspicion): When the doctor

had his accident... last year, you remember,

Suddenly the children were in his garden.

Supposedly, in order to help Xenia.

PASTOR (doesn't understand): Yes... and?

SCHOOLTEACHER: Nothing. I had forgotten it.

Today, it came back to my mind again.

PASTOR (as before): I don't understand.

SCHOOLTEACHER: When they found the Baron's

son... the last time he had been seen, he was

with the children.

PASTOR: What are you getting at?

SCHOOLTEACHER: A couple of days before Hansi was

almost beaten to death, the steward's daughter

had predicted precisely that to me. Supposedly,

she had dreamed it. The police thinks she's

lying. Who told her about it? Who announced it

to her?

PASTOR: If I understand you correctly, you're

saying that your pupils, my children included,

committed these crimes. Is that right?

Do you realize what you're saying?

Do you know...

95

I assume that I'm the first person to whom

you've uttered this monstrosity.

If you ever dare to bother other people with it,

if you publicly denounce respectable families

and their children in this abject way, I shall

make sure -- and you can take my word for it --

that you will go to prison.

I've seen quite a lot during my work as a

pastor, but I've never come across anything as

repulsive as this.

One can tell that you have no children.

Otherwise,   you    wouldn't   stoop   to   such

viciousness. You have a sick mind. I wonder how

the school authorities could let you loose among

those poor creatures. I'll have a word with the

authorities at the proper time.

And now please leave my house. I never want to

see you here again.

NARRATOR: The midwife never came back. I waited

until the morning, two days later. Then, I went

to the manor house to inform the Baron. He

referred me to the steward and said to open the

house immediately and to look after the disabled

boy.

96

NARRATOR: I had never come to the midwife's

house and felt uncomfortable at the idea of

barging into somebody else's house without

asking. It was strange, but we were still

seeking and calling out anxiously Hansi's name,

and I already knew, that we were searching in

vain. Anyone who knew the midwife also knew how

devoted she was to her disabled child, and that

she would never have left her wounded Hansi all

alone.

NARRATOR: During the next few weeks, the village

gossip-factory worked overtime.

Some claimed, the doctor was Hansi's father. He

and the midwife had tried to abort the child so

that the shame of their relationship wouldn't be

found out, and that's how the child became

disabled. Others even went as far as to claim

that there was something fishy about the death

of the doctor's wife, and that they wouldn't be

surprised, if the two weren't responsible for

it.

NARRATOR: Whoever had lynched the boy obviously

knew about the hidden crimes of his parents.

97

Suddenly it seemed even possible that the doctor

and the midwife, as potential murderers, were

also the perpetrators of all the other crimes.

It was suspected, that the doctor had wanted to

spare his legitimate children and himself public

disclosure of his guilt, and had therefore fled

with them. Apparently he had taken the disabled

boy with him out of guilt. Understandably

enough, he had left behind his accomplice and

the mother of the disgraced child.

The fact that it was on a bicycle that she tried

to catch up with the man who had happily

escaped, was the cause of a great deal of

laughter.

On July 28th Austria declared war on Serbia. It

was followed on Saturday, August 1rst, by the

German declaration of war on Russia, and on

France the following Monday.

78.CHURCH INT/DAY

NARRATOR: On the Sunday between those dates, the

whole village came to the festive service.

An atmosphere of expectation and departure was

in the air. From now on nothing would be the

same.

Only a few days ago everybody would have called

the life they lived as God's will, worthy of

being lived, and would have shunned any change.

The strange joy with which the coming war was

greeted, showed that this certainty of order and

security was based on very shaky foundations.

98

In the frenzy of patriotic enthusiasm that was

flaring up, the events that had shaken Eichwald,

had become an irrelevant.

In the face of the coming war, Eva's father had

taken his daughter back and, at her pleading,

had come to Eichwald to cast an eye at the place

where his future son-in-law was living and

working. The prospect, that I might soon call

this beloved creature my wife, turned this day

also into a solemn day for me.

The pastor never mentioned our conversation

again. Our relationship was limited to what was

required professionally. He apparently never

went through with his threat to denounce me to

the school-authorities.

Today, more than a quarter of a century later,

toward the end of my life, and several years

after the end of a second war that was to change

this world in a more cruel and radical way than

the first one, the one we faced at the time, I

wonder if the events of those days and our

silence about them, weren't the germ of the

tragedy toward which we were heading.

Didn't we all know secretly what had happened in

our midst? Hadn't we, in a way, made it possible

by closing our eyes? Didn't we keep our mouths

shut because otherwise we would have had to

wonder if the misdeeds of these children, of our

children, weren't actually the result of what

we'd been teaching them?

I was drafted at the start of the third year of

the war. After the war, I sold the house in

Grundbach that I had inherited from my father,

who had died in the meantime, and with the money

I opened a tailor's shop in the town, where I

still live now.

I never saw anybody from the village again.

