FADE IN:

INT. BERLIN CONCERT HALL (1944) - NIGHT

A man conducting Beethoven.  Air raid in progress.  Bombs

falling nearby.  The orchestra continues to play.  Suddenly

the lights go out.  The music stops.

INT. BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR, CONCERT HALL - NIGHT

A beam from a torch, bouncing, making shadows.  An

ATTENDANT, carrying the torch, hurries down the corridor.

The air raid continues.

He comes to a door, knocks, opens it and looks in.

The sound of heavy footsteps approaching.  The attendant

turns his torch to light the way for three men in Nazi

uniform, also with attendants and torches, marching down

the corridor.

The attendant bows deeply as the REICHSMINISTER and his

aide go through the door. The other man remains in the

corridor on guard.

INT. CONDUCTOR'S ROOM - NIGHT

Candles light the room where the conductor shakes hands

with the Reichsminister.

A bomb explodes nearby.

INT. RUINED CINEMA - DAY

Dark.  ON A SCREEN: scenes from Leni Riefenstahl's triumph

of the will. Over this:

The film changes with a scratchy music soundtrack - Wagner.

SHOTS of high-ranking Nazis in an audience including Josef

Goebbels, listening. And they're listening to and watching

Wilhelm Furtwangler conducting. At the appropriate moment:

The Nazis applaud. Goebbels shakes hands with Furtwangler.

The film ends.

Sitting in the ruined cinema are two men: GENERAL WALLACE,

with files on the table, and, beside him, MAJOR STEVE

ARNOLD. A PROJECTIONIST is standing in the door of the

projection room.

Wallace glances at the file.

Steve wants to rise, but Wallace puts a hand on his shoulder

to make him sit again.

He nods to the projectionist, then starts to go, but stops.

Wallace goes. The projectionist starts the next reel.

ON THE SCREEN: a Berlin sequence. Bombs falling. Ruins, a

city devastated, empty. Flags of the four allied nations.

Posters of Truman, Stalin, Churchill.

Steve watches expressionless.

ON THE SCREEN: SHOTS of camp survivors. Then SHOTS of

emaciated corpses being bulldozed into mass graves.

The moment this appears, Steve rises and goes quickly.

ON THE SCREEN: piles of cadavers.

INT. MAJOR STEVE ARNOLD'S BEDROOM (I945) - NIGHT

Steve having a nightmare, twisting, turning, moaning. He

wakes with a cry. He is sweating. He turns on the light,

looks at a clock, reaches for a cigarette, lights it. He

smokes. He stares at the ceiling.

Later:

Early morning. Cold. Steve is at the basin in his small

room, shaving. A radio on a shelf.

EXT. STEVE'S OFFICE BUILDING, BERLIN - DAY

Steve's car swerves round the corner and comes to a halt.

A small crowd watch workmen on ladders hammering away at a

stone swastika above the portico. American soldiers

supervise. Steve gets out of the car, carrying an attache

case, and he, too, watches as the stone swastika falls and

crashes into pieces on the road. One or two people clap,

most just stare.

The American soldiers immediately hoist the Stars and

Stripes. Steve goes into the building. The sentry salutes.

The driver of the car goes to the trunk and takes out a

labelled duffel bag, cans of film, a case which holds a 16-

mm projector. A small BOY sidles up to him:

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Steve and Sergeant Adams ascending a grand, winding but

damaged staircase to the rear of a spacious entrance hall.

A once impressive building. Signs of bomb damage everywhere.

German workmen doing repairs. American military personnel

coming and going, saluting Steve, who barely acknowledges

them.

They reach the landing. Adams opens double doors and they

go through.

A few gilt chairs, a workman trying to repair the stove.

Adams opens another door for Steve.

INT. STEVE S OFFICE - DAY

EMMI is hanging the standard photograph of President Truman

on the wall. She turns to see Steve and Adams and is covered

with confusion. She gives Steve a little curtsey.

He goes. Steve scrutinises Emmi. She's embarrassed, keeps

her eyes downcast. Steve goes to his desk, opens a file,

reads.

He nods, goes on reading.

She nods, keeps her eyes averted. He smiles sympathetically.

No response.

He searches his pockets.

Steve starts to unpack his attache case.

She hands Steve a typewritten sheet. He ignores it, finds

a list which he hands to her. He waits for her to read,

then:

He smiles. She tries to smile back.

EXT. FLEA MARKET, BERLIN - DAY

Freezing weather. A narrow street, crowded, busy, noisy.

Some makeshift stalls set out, trestle tables, open

suitcases, people buying and selling every imaginable

commodity.

Emmi wanders through the crowd, passing a violinist, Helmuth

Rode, wrapped up against the cold, playing Handel's Air on

a G String, a bowl for money at his feet. A passer-by drops

a cigarette butt in it.  Immediately, Rode retrieves the

butt.

Emmi comes to a stall selling piles of gramophone records.

She asks the stallholder a question. He points to another

stall across the way.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Steve at his desk, paging through files. A knock on the

door.

Lieutenant DAVID WILLS, aged twenty-four, enters, comes to

Steve's desk, stands to attention, salutes.

David half-smiles.

Breaks off. Nothing from Steve.

The door opens and Emmi enters carrying a record player,

sees David and starts to back out.

They nod briefly.

A flick from Emmi.

For Emmi's benefit too. She becomes still, listens.

David takes a few files, sits and starts to look through

them. Steve returns to his files. Emmi, by now, has put on

a record and starts to play it: the opening of Beethoven's

Fifth Symphony blasts out.

The two men look up, startled. Emmi beams:

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Emmi at the door. Steve at his desk. David present.

WERNER enters, bows to Steve and David. Emmi goes to her

desk.

Indicates the upright chair; Werner sits.

Werner nods.

Long silence; Steve watches him. Werner is made more

anxious. At last, in a rush:

Werner swivels round to look at Emmi.

Brief silence.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Another man, SCHLEE, is in the chair. Only Steve and Emmi

now. Pale, yellow electric light. Silence. Schlee, too, is

very nervous. At last:

Steve just stares at him.

Steve lights a cigarette.

Schlee tries to find words.

Steve nods, thinks for a moment. Then:

Schlee looks at him bewildered.

INT./EXT. CAR (TRAVELLING), LAKESIDE AND MANSION - DAY

In the back, David and Steve. Military driver. The car's

making its way along a road that skirts a lake towards a

grand mansion from which fly the four Allied flags.

INT. THE MANSION - DAY

A huge, cavernous room, once the ballroom.

In the centre, a table with four chairs. To one side,

antique furniture, objets d'art, paintings. Four Allied

officers are surveying the treasures: COLONEL DYMSHITZ,

COLONEL GREEN (American), MAJOR RICHARDS (British) and

CAPTAIN VERNAY (French). What they say is barely audible,

low mumbles. They're accompanied by aides with clipboards,

taking notes.

Beyond, and some distance away, a row of gilt chairs for

observers where David and Steve take their seats.

Dymshitz, small, intelligent face, cunning eyes.

Green, correct, formal, precise, immaculate. Richards,

bespectacled and nondescript. Vernay, upright, proud.

INT./EXT. SALON OFF THE BALLROOM AND TERRACE - DAY

Outside the club room for the participants. Buzz of

conversation, clink of glasses, cups. The terrace is

deserted.

A waiter carries a tray with various refreshments to a

quiet corner where Dymshitz, Green, Vernay, his aide

LIEUTENANT SIMON, Steve and David sit in comfortable

armchairs. The waiter serves them. During this:

Steve makes a non-committal gesture.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Rode is seated, waiting. Nervous, tense. The sound of

laughter, David's laughter from the office. It makes him

even more uncomfortable.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE SUITE - DAY

Emmi and David laughing.

He demonstrates. She laughs again.

She smiles just as Steve bursts in. He's in a bright,

cheerful, energetic mood.

David draws back guiltily. Emmi, embarrassed, hesitates

then turns to the typewriter and types furiously. Seeing

this, Steve stops, but just for a brief moment. Then, as

he goes to his desk:

He looks from David to Emmi as if trying to work out

something.  Then:

Later.

Rode in the witness chair. Steve studying the file. David

and Emmi ready to take notes.

He chuckles, looks around for approval. Steve grins

encouragingly.

Long silence.

Silence.

Steve lights a cigarette; Rode eyes it hungrily.

Steve flicks David a glance, waggles his finger like a

baton.

Chuckles. David mouths I win to Steve.

Steve and David exchange a brief look.

He crosses himself. Silence. David raises a discreet finger.

Brief silence; a smile.

Steve nods, smiles.

Rode stands and bows.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

The final bars of the Fifth Symphony. Snowing. Dim light.

There is more furniture now: two chairs, one comfortable,

the other upright.  A sitting area by the window with the

telephone extension. The 16-mm projector set up in another

corner.

Steve, at his desk, wrapped up against the cold, going

through files, making notes. He stops, seems to listen,

then goes to the window, looks out.

The music ends. The record hisses. Steve just stares out

at the night and the snow. The record continues to hiss.

INT./EXT TRAM, BERLIN (TRAVELLING) - DAY

The tram packed to overflowing. Then, a sudden stir among

the passengers as people push through trying to find space.

One of them is FURTWANGLER. He's recognised. Whispering.

He stares ahead or keeps his eyes downcast. An elderly man

tugs at his coat, half-rises, offering his seat.

Furtwangler manages a smile and shakes his head. The tram

rattles on.

INT. HALL, STEVE'S BUILDING - DAY

Furtwangler approaches Adams at his desk.

He crosses to the stairs. German workmen stop what they

are doing to let him pass. One of them bows.

On the upper landing, Emmi is making her way to Steve's

office.

She stops, sees Furtwangler on the stairs and then dashes

to Steve's door.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Emmi bursts in on Steve and David. She's overawed:

Emmi glances out again and reluctantly closes the door,

Steve sits calmly, relaxed.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Furtwangler sits, waiting. Emmi, deeply embarrassed, hurries

through.. Furtwangler is about to ask her something, but

she's gone. He waits.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Steve and David preparing papers.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Furtwangler waiting. Emmi enters from the landing door

carrying a tray and three mugs of coffee. She hurries

towards the office door, eyes downcast.

Emmi stops.

Emmi bites her lip and, without looking at him, disappears

into the office.  Furtwangler closes his eyes, breathes

deeply.

He stands, goes to the window, looks out.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Silence. Steve studying his notes. David watching him.

Emmi staring forlornly into space.

Emmi rises, opens the door, nods, turns back to Steve.

Furtwangler enters. As he passes her, Emmi gives him a

small curtsey. David nods. Steve doesn't look up.

Furtwangler waits a moment, glances round, sees the more

comfortable chair and sits in it. Steve looks up.

Furtwangler stands. Steve points to the other chair.

Furtwangler sits.

A very long silence. When the silence is unbearable Steve

speaks.

David puts up a hand. Steve nods.

Steve looks expectant but Furtwangler remains silent. Steve

nods to Emmi, who gets the water.  Furtwangler drinks.

Steve waits.

Silence. Steve paces. Then suddenly turns on Furtwangler.

Emmi sticks her fingers in her ears and shuts her eyes

tight.

No response.

Steve is stung. His eyes narrow dangerously.

No response.

The telephone rings. No one moves. Then Emmi picks up the

telephone.

Offers the phone to David.

David takes the telephone.

Steve indicates he'll take the call on the extension.

Furtwangler stands. As Steve crosses to the extension:

He picks up the extension. Emmi puts down her receiver.

He goes quickly. David dashes after him.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY Furtwangler is at the door when

David reaches him.

The sound of Steve laughing with delight.  Furtwangler

hesitates.

Emmi comes to the waiting-room door, watches, as if on

guard.

David comes round to face Furtwangler.

He falls silent.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Emmi, at the open door, has been listening. She's shocked,

turns away to see Steve, on the extension, chuckling,

grinning from ear to ear.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

David and Furtwangler haven't moved. Both are looking

towards Steve's office and Emmi in the doorway.

Again the sound of Steve's laugh. Then Emmi steps into the

room, approaches Furtwangler.

He gives her a wonderful smile.  And, suddenly, Steve stands

in the doorway, smiling.

The others are made awkward.

Furtwangler goes to the door. David opens it for him.

Furtwangler nods, then turns to Emmi, bows to her and

smiles. He goes.

INT. BRITISH INTELLIGENCE HQ, ARCHIVE ROOM - DAY

There is a long trestle table running the length of the

room, with chairs, as if in a library. A notice requests

'Silence'.

British and American servicemen, a Russian and a French

officer studying papers, making notes. At the furthest

end, Steve, David and Emmi.

INT. BRITISH INTELLIGENCE HQ, ARCHIVE ROOM - NIGHT

David discovers that the archive room was originally a

synagogue. He is moved. He lays stones on the rail of what

was once the ark.

INT. BRITISH INTELLIGENCE HQ, ARCHIVE ROOM - DAY

Emmi and David surrounded by files, sifting through, making

notes. They examine the Hinkel Archive.

INT. BRITISH INTELLIGENCE HQ, ARCHIVE ROOM - DAY

Another day.

Sunshine pouring in. Steve seated as before, but Emmi and

David again in different places.

Emmi rises, goes to Steve, shows him something.

He reads. He is not pleased. He writes furiously. Emmi

returns to her place. Suddenly, a movement causes Steve to

look up.

STEVE AND HIS POV: David slides a note across to Emmi.

Emmi reads the note. David watches her. She looks at him.

She almost smiles, nods surreptitiously.

She feels Steve's eyes on her, and returns quickly to her

work.

Steve is displeased and even more suspicious.

EXT. PARTLY RUINED CHURCH - EVENING

Summer evening. The first movement of Schubert's String

Quintet in C Major, D956, played by three men and two women

to a large audience packed into the ruins, partly open to

the sky, Dymshitz  among them.

At the rear of the church, Emmi and David, enraptured,

seated side by side.

The first movement ends and the Adagio begins. After the

music gathers momentum:

Rain. Thunder and lightning. The musicians continue to

play, unperturbed.  They are coming to the end of the

Quintet.

David and Emmi huddled together. Some umbrellas up and

then movement which catches David's attention. He nudges

Emmi, I indicates with his chin.

People have moved to reveal Furtwangler: seated, wearing a

hat, still I' as a statue, soaked, listening,

expressionless.

Much applause. The musicians bow. The audience start to

leave.

Emmi and David emerge from the ruins.  Furtwangler passes

them.

They nod awkwardly. He doesn't respond but is about to

walk on when Dymshitz pushes through, nods to David, who

salutes. Dymshitz catches up with Furtwangler. They are

near to Emmi and David.

Furtwangler stops.

He nods politely, is about to go -

Furtwangler allows himself a faint smile, tips his hat,

and then hurries off into the night. Dymshitz goes, too.

David and Emmi watch them.  Then:

Huddled under their umbrella, they dash off.

INT. STEVE'S BEDROOM, GRAND HOTEL - NIGHT

Steve, fully dressed, lies on the bed in his small, shabby

room, staring into space. He is suddenly startled by a

loud roll of thunder and then a fierce crack of lightning.

He goes to the window, watching the rain. He stands

motionless for a second, then makes a decision. He grabs

his cap, a raincoat from the back of the door. Another

loud thunderclap.

INT. US OFFICERS' CLUB - NIGHT

Dancers jitterbugging and jiving. Among them, David and

Emmi also dancing, imitating the others and having a good

time. The music ends. Scattered applause. The band leaves

the platform. The dancers return to tables or the bar.

Later:

David and Emmi at their table, eating. She eats voraciously,

eyes glazed, all her concentration on the food in front of

her. David is fascinated, can't stop watching her.

Steve enters the club, makes his way to the bar, orders a

drink.

Steve turns to survey the room, almost at once spots David

and Emmi, their backs to him. He observes them.

David and Emmi at their table: They have finished their

meal. Emmi is silent now, staring at her empty plate.

Steve is suddenly at their table.

David and Emmi are frozen with embarrassment.

Tries to get a waiter's attention but fails.  No response.

he band starts to play; he stands, holds out a hand.

She is horribly embarrassed, doesn't move. David suddenly

stands and takes Emmi by the arm.

They leave quickly.

Steve watches them. He sinks down, angry and jealous.

INT. HALL, STAIRWAY, STRAUBE APARTMENT BLOCK - NIGHT

David and Emmi enter the hall, each locked in their own

thoughts.  They reach the foot of the stairs and pause.

They want to kiss but both are too awkward. She starts up

the stairs.

She stops, turns.

She continues on her way.

INT. ARCHIVE ROOM - DAY

Steve and Emmi at work on the files. One or two BRITISH

OFFICERS present, and David, who is working at the far end

of the table. He has a cold.

Emmi, who also has a cold, opens a file and is immediately

alert. She reads. She blows her nose. She is uncertain.

She looks up at Steve. She makes a decision. She rises,

takes the file to Steve.

She points to something. Steve laughs loudly.

David looks up at them, puzzled. Then a British SERGEANT

comes into the doorway.

David rises and as he goes:

INT. LOBBY, ARCHIVE BUILDING - DAY

In a booth near the front desk, David is on the telephone.

EXT. LAKESIDE, BERLIN - DAY

Steve lies, shirt off, taking the sun. Children playing.

Noise behind him of someone in the bushes. Steve doesn't

move.

Rode, carrying a slender leather case, pushes through to

Steve, who remains with his eyes closed.

Rode takes from the case a conductor's baton. Steve opens

one eye.

Sits up, takes the baton. Somewhere a child laughs; suddenly

Steve thrusts the baton at Rode.

After nervous looks over his shoulder Rode, salutes half-

heartedly.

Rode thrusts his hand out in the Nazi salute.

People by the lake:

Mostly elderly, but some younger ones see Rode saluting.

Some turn away. Others stare.

Rode and Steve:

Rode looks around nervously, lowers his arm.

A ball comes bounding towards them. Steve catches it. Then

a BOY runs in, looks hopeful.

Steve tosses the ball back to him.

Steve pats the spot next to him and Rode sits.

Rode makes an attempt to go but Steve grabs him.

Rode suddenly starts to retch.

People by the lakeside:

Faces turning at Rode's sobs. Impassive. Blank.

Steve and Rode:

Rode nods.

Rode vomits.

After a moment:

Brief silence. Steve stands.

Further along the lakeside:

Steve and Rode walk. People about. Boats on the lake.

EXT. LAKE - DAY

Rode rowing Steve in a small boat. Rode, exhausted, stops.

The boat drifts. Steve watches him for a moment, then:

Rode, trying to catch his breath, shakes his head.

No response. Rode keeps his head bowed.

Silence. Then Rode slowly raises his head.

EXT. WOOD, LAKESIDE - DAY

Rode and Steve walking. Rode suddenly turns to him:

They start to walk away from the water.

He stops, takes out a cigarette, offers one to Rode, lights

them both, gives Rode the packet.  They smoke for a moment.

The sun is setting. Rode stops suddenly.

Rode tries to make up his mind about something, then

decides. He reaches into an inside pocket and takes out a

small black notebook.

Rode hesitates, then he hands Steve the black book.

INT. ARCHIVE ROOM - DAY

Steve going along the shelves filled with files. He's at

the H, then I, then J. He stops at the letter K. With his

forefinger, he runs down the files. He stops, pulls out a

fat file:

He opens the file.

INSERT: - the file:

ID PHOTOGRAPHS of an energetic-looking young man and two

Nazi Party membership booklets.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

David makes his way from the counter. He carries a tray

with two cups of coffee. He goes to a table where CAPTAIN

MARTIN sits, papers and files spread before him. David

gives him his coffee, then sits across from him, blows his

nose.

Silence while they sugar and milk their coffee. David aware

of Martin's eyes on him.

He breaks off.

Passes papers across to David.

David tries to sneeze but fails; he starts to read.

He watches David read. David is engrossed. Almost

imperceptibly, he shakes his head.

EXT. BERLIN STREET - DAY

A half-ruined cafe with tables on the sidewalk. WERNER,

the timpanist, SCHLEE, the oboist, and two others seated

at one of the tables, drinking coffee.

David carries an attache case and walks towards the cafe.

He scans the people at the tables, sees the musicians and

approaches. They stand.

David nods

David leaves money on the table and then walks off with

the four men. They talk as they make their way down a side

street.

INT. DYMSHITZ'S VILLA - NIGHT

Steve and Dymshitz sit opposite each other and clink vodka

glasses.  They have been drinking but are not yet drunk.

They drink. Dymshitz pours more vodka.

He is still for a moment, then grabs the bottle and pours

himself a drink, downs it. Dymshitz watches him, then:

INT. ANOTHER ROOM, DYMSHITZ'S OFFICE SUITE - NIGHT

German modern paintings stacked untidily.

Dymshitz, carrying a vodka bottle and his glass, shows

Steve the paintings. Steve, too, has a glass.

Dymshitz pours vodkas, raises his glass, drinks. So does

Steve. Now, their moods swing with the drink.

Dymshitz drinks; then sits, sinks into his own world.

A forlorn look at Steve. His eyes are misty, he is visibly

drunk.

Pause.

Dymshitz bursts out laughing.

Stung, Steve advances on him, almost as if he's about to

attack him physically. He stops, sways a little, then,

after a moment, drops down in a chair near to Dymshitz.

They drink. Intimate:

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Drunk, Steve is clumsily, almost frantically, threading

film into the 16-mm projector.

He switches off the lights then stumbles back to the

projector, turns it on and directs its beam towards a blank

square of watt.

It's an American military propaganda film.

Steve, swaying slightly, watches, with the film continuing.

EXT.  FLEA MARKET - DAY

Bright summer's day. Emmi pushing her way through the

crowded market. She comes to the stall with gramophone

records.

David is with her, staying behind a little so as not to

disturb her.

She starts to look through the records, blowing her nose

from time to time. Then she finds a box of records, opens

it, is delighted. She bargains with the stallholder, and

she hands over money.

She shows her purchase to David happily. They struggle on

in the crowd. David suddenly stops. He has spotted a tandem.

The bicycle with two seats is old and rusty but seems to

be in working order. David steps up to it, touches it.

EXT. WOODLAND - DAY

Two persons, Emmi and David, riding the tandem. Emmi in

the front, pedalling, David behind. The road going up into

the hills is full of potholes. They change seats. David is

in the front, Emmi at the back. Suddenly the road begins

to descend. They change again, Emmi sits in the front,

David at the back. They speed down the hill.

INT. BURNT-OUT DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

The tandem, ridden by Emmi and David, rolls into a huge

building, black and burnt out.

In the middle of the vast hall, surrounded by the staircase,

there is a Christmas tree, almost burnt to cinder. Emmi

and David stare at it, mesmerised.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Steve and David studying files in silence.  Furtwangler's

baton is on Steve's desk. Steve drinks black coffee.

Emmi enters.  Curt nods of greeting. She goes to her desk,

then takes the Bruckner record to Steve. Steve looks at

the record, then glances up at Emmi. He does his best to

exclude David, who tries to hear what is said.

Emmi glances at David. She's embarrassed.

He returns to his desk. Emmi looks through the album for

the appropriate record.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Steve by the open window, looking at his wristwatch, smoking

a cigarette. David and Emmi both watch him.  The door opens

and Furtwangler bursts in.

Furtwangler goes out.

David and Emmi gaze at him as he tries to regain control.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

The door to the landing is open and Rode is there pretending

to sweep. He looks in to see Furtwangler sitting, holding

his handkerchief over his nose and mouth.

Furtwangler doesn't seem to hear. Rode hesitates, then

continues to sweep.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

David and Emmi look at him, puzzled.

She goes to the door, opens it, nods. Rode quickly

disappears.  Furtwangler looks at Emmi.

Emmi doesn't answer. All eyes on the door.  Furtwangler

enters.

Furtwangler, deeply suspicious, goes for the uncomfortable

chair.

He holds the other chair for Furtwangler, who sits.

Furtwangler takes from his pocket a piece of paper with

notes. He blows his nose. The room is warming up. It will

become like an airless court room, a pressure cooker.

David and Emmi exchange the briefest of looks. David raises

his hand.

Silence.

Silence.

Furtwangler rises angrily and starts to pace.

He sits heavily, wipes his brow. He is sweating now.

Silence.

Brief silence; all eyes on him.

No response.

No response. To Furtwangler:

Furtwangler leaves.

Steve goes to his desk and, as Furtwangler rises

uncertainly:

But Steve turns on the projector and the Bergen-Belsen

film flickers into life.

INT. US OFFICERS' CLUB - NIGHT

Band playing. Couples dancing. David and Steve at the bar,

each with a drink in front of them, lost in their own

thoughts. Then:

Steve signs to the barkeeper to fill their glasses but

David puts a hand over his glass. Then:

He starts to go, then comes back to them.

The customers stare at him as he stalks out. The band plays.

INT. STRAUBE APARTMENT - EVENING

David and Emmi, sitting.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Hot, Windows closed.  Furtwangler seated. David and Emmi

present.  Steve looks up from his notes.

Steve tenses.

Holds up his package of letters and dumps them on Emmi's

desk.

Emmi is uncertain. Steve shrugs indifferently.

She picks an envelope and takes out the letter.

Emmi puts on the record of the Adagio from Bruckner's

Seventh Symphony. After a moment:

The music plays.

David takes the record off.

An uncontrollable surge of anger wells up in Steve, causing

him to pace alarmingly. He grabs the baton from his desk,

stands trembling before Furtwangler, and snaps it in half.

He pushes his face close to Furtwangler, who recoils,

terrified. David half-stands, ready to intervene physically.

During this Emmi puts her fingers in her ears.

He sees Emmi has her fingers in her ears, yells at her.

She does so.

She screams. Stillness. All eyes on her.

He breaks down, buries his face in his hands, weeps.

He is suddenly overtaken by nausea and faintness, stands,

a hand to his mouth. Emmi goes to him.

Emmi helps Furtwangler out. Steve strides to the window,

opens it, puts his head out into the fresh air.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Emmi helps Furtwangler to a chair. She watches him

solicitously. He breathes deeply.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Steve is trying to get a number on the telephone. David is

packing up his papers.

David turns to the records, starts to son through until he

finds what he's looking for. He removes the Bruckner and

puts another record on the turntable.

At full volume the sound of the subdued opening of

Beethoven's Ninth Symphony.

But David ignores him, sits, implacable, listening.

INT. STEVE'S BUILDING - DAY

Furtwangler walks slowly down the stairs, a broken man

struggling to regain his composure. Emmi watches him.

INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY

The music at full blast. David, at an open window, keeps

his back to Steve, still on the telephone.

EXT.  STEVE S BUILDING - DAY

Furtwangler, on the stairs, stops, hearing the music echoing

through the building.

Furtwangler left hand begins to tremble, but it is only

his way of sensing the tempo.

Furtwangler slowly continues down the stairs.

INT.  CONCERT HALL (ARCHIVE)

Furtwangler conducting. Goebbels and other high-ranking

Nazis in the audience. When the music finishes, Furtwangler

turns and bows. Goebbels rises and shakes hands with him.

Furtwangler takes his handkerchief and wipes his hands.

The film replays this gesture several times - Furtwangler

wiping his hands.

THE END

