Nico's eyes stay on the approaching "cowboy," KURT ZAGON,

for whom he plainly feels an instant animosity.

FOLLOWS the medical bag in the cowboy's hand.

Nico in the point,   leading Fox and the three CIT (Chemical

Interrogation Team)   men down an unmarked, twisting trail.

We see from Nico's   gait that he is athletic, a born leader

and totally at home   in the jungle.

snakes along a ridge line, high enough to give us a view and

let us know these guys are way out in the boonies.

The group continues along the ridge.

The sky glows from nearby bomb attacks.

listening hard -- and even sniffing the air -- glances back

at Zagon, who stands impatiently, drawing on a cigarette.

Irritably, Zagon ditches his smoke.

As the party moves out, Fox flashes Nico a look as if to say,

"Don't fuck with these guys."

A pocket-fortified position. Armed Cambodian lookouts,

several hooches, radio equipment. Nico leads the party in

through the perimeter. Zagon eyes the layout like he's seen

100 of them. Fox indicates a hooch.

The three CIT men start for the hooch. Nico casts a concerned

glance around at the base camp troops, looking sloppy as hell.

We see Nico moving like a shadow from one defensive position

to another, checking the perimeter. We can vaguely hear him

ROUSTING the Cambodian lookouts, speaking in dialect.

hears a SOUND, looks back toward the hooch.

Two Asian prisoners, stripped to the waist, babbling in-

coherently, are dragged out the back by a pair of Cambodian

guards and hustled off into the darkness. VOICES can be

heard inside the hooch. A single lantern glowing inside

gives the hut a creepy, frightening aspect.

He's extremely uneasy about what's about to happen inside the

hooch.

on which are spread a terrifying array of syringes, drug vials

and surgical instruments. Zagon's hand picks up a hypodermic,

squirt-tests it.

are on their knees, shirtless, handcuffed with heavy nylon

tape to a stake driven into the ground in the center of the

hooch. One of the subordinate CIT men moves in, grabs the

first prisoner by the shoulders. Zagon injects the first

prisoner. Instantly the man begins shivering, convulsing.

Zagon watches with professional satisfaction.

He moves close to the first prisoner.

The prisoner tries to speak, but he's in such torment all

that comes out is a blood-curdling wail --

hears this horrifying cry.   He starts swiftly toward the

hooch --

has moved as close to Zagon and the first prisoner as a fight

referee to two boxers. The prisoner is convulsing wildly.

Zagon grabs him fiercely by the hair.

The first prisoner is plainly in a death spasm.

enters at this point. He takes in the scene quickly, moves

to a spot beside the entrance. Zagon doesn't look at Nico,

but it's plain he is aware of Nico's presence. It is as if

he wants to prove something to this muscular kid -- and prove

it to the others, too.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                         5.

dies in agony on the ground.

watches with eyes like flint. He is in his mid-forties,

scarred, missing several fingers. Probably a colonel or

higher, he looks like he's been fighting these round-eyes

since the French in the 50's. He is plainly one tough

customer. The second prisoner meets Zagon's eyes, as if

daring him to use the drugs on him, too. Zagon eyes the

prisoner with barely contained hatred. The prisoner doesn't

back down an inch.

Zagon reaches to a scabbard on his Western belt, pulls out a

fearsome serrated blade -- a cross between a bowie knife and

a scalpel. He steps toward the prisoner, displaying the

blade in the lantern light.

watches impassively.

punches  the prisoner full in the face, holding the knife

handle  in his fist to double the force of the blow and to

terrify  him with the proximity of the blade. The prisoner

crashes  sideways, face bloody --

seem to know exactly what this is about.

didn't know, but the new kid on the block is catching on fast.

Nico has difficulty containing his emotion. Zagon stands

over the prisoner, as if daring him to get back up.

Zagon starts for the prisoner. Here comes the blade.

Suddenly -- Nico grabs Zagon's shoulder. Zagon spins with

terrifying quickness, cocking the blade to slash at Nico.

Before Zagon's blow even starts, Nico slams him with a

ferocious elbow shot right under the jaw. Zagon literally

comes off the ground, Nico's blow is so terrific. Zagon drops

in an unconscious heap. In a flash the two other CIT men

move to jump Nico. Smash! The second CIT man is swallowing

his teeth. Fox leaps in the way of the third, shoves Nico

out of the hooch --

Fox wrestles Nico away from the hooch --

Nico is shaking with rage and fear. He takes several steps

away from the hooch, then draws up abruptly. Nico pulls his

.45 from his holster, pops the safety, starts back for the

hooch --

The last CIT man appears, gun drawn, in the hooch doorway.

Fox grabs Nico, hauls him back again --

The CIT man calls out to the Cambodian troops, in dialect,

pointing at Nico. The soldiers start toward Nico, as if to

seize him. Fox, too, starts yelling to the troops in dialect,

apparently countermanding the orders of the CIT men. The

troops, confused, hold up for a moment.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87                        8.

Nico gives a last look, turns and takes off down the jungle

trail. Fox seems abandoned. The DISTANT BOMBING CONTINUES.

Nico disappears into the darkness.

FADE IN ON:

TILT DOWN to reveal St. Elizabeth's, a huge parish church in

an Italian/Latino neighborhood in Chicago. The church looks

festive, we see a few formally-dressed people hurrying in,

then a squad car pulls up. The cops run upstairs as if

they're late --

A baptism in progress. Nico -- 15 years older than when we

last saw him, is standing beside SARA, his lovely wife        *

-- watching a 60-ish priest, FATHER GENARRO, finish the

final ritual on Nico's infant son Julian. The priest

straightens the baby's baptismal garment, tugging the cloth

around the little fellow's crotch. Smiles from friends and

relatives clustered proudly around. Several cops, some in

uniform are amongst them. Nico grabs his son from Genarro

with a theatrical protective motion, tugs up the little boy's

garment, kisses him smack on the bare butt. Laughter from

all as Nico holds the lad high and proud. He puts his arm

around Sara.                                                  *

Huge trays of Italian delicacies are carried out into the

sunlight by several "old country"-type women. Wine is

poured from generous carafes. Friends and relatives are

everywhere, laughing and enjoying themselves; apparently

the party has come here straight from the church. Presents

for the new baby are being opened by Nico's wife, Sara,        *

and Nico's mother, ROSA.

Sara lifts a cute baby outfit.                                 *

Cora, an aunt, proudly smiles.

Holding the baby. Realizes that his little son has pooped

in his pants. He turns for help to Sara.                       *

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87                           9.

Assorted uncles and aunts watch with amusement as Nico tries

awkwardly to deal with the problem.

Sara lets Nico struggle a moment, then takes over.               *

Toscani relatives look on with approval at the happy couple

and their baby.

Three Chicago cops, LUKICH and HENDERSON in plain clothes

and LIEUTENANT STROZAH in uniform wolf some Italian goodies

while eying the group of celebrating relatives.

BRANCA and LUIGI, who   look like they have been on the other

side of a cop's work,   are in turn eying Lukich and Henderson

-- plus a cluster of   other cops in civvies hovering around

the buffet table like   vultures.

An unmarked police car pulls up. DOLORES JACKSON ("Jax"),

another undercover cop, tall, black, and elegant, enters

the driveway leading to Nico's back yard --

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87                         10.

Jackson enters. She's impeccably dressed and radiates

intelligence. She's greeted warmly by Lukich, Henderson,

Strozah, and a couple of other cops.

Jackson sees Nico and Sara across the yard, waves and          *

starts toward them --

Luigi indicates Jackson as she crosses the patio.

Jackson comes up, makes a theatrical appreciation of Nico's

stylish attire, kisses Sara and greets Nico's mom warmly.      *

She starts oohing and ahhing over the baby.

Young kids playing on the lawn, more guests arriving, Father

Genarro dancing with an elderly matron. We see that Nico's

friends are an electric mix. Cops, art-y types, people of

varied ages and professions.

Holding the baby.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87                        10A.

moves in shyly on the fringe of the cluster. While Jackson

and Sara continue their "mom" talk, Nico edges off toward      *

Watanabe, shaking her hand with real pleasure.                 *

They begin jabbering in Japanese.

We will meet Watanabe again later. She's a brainy-looking      *

woman -- reserved, a bit mysterious -- who talks quietly and   *

intensely in Japanese with Nico like they're old friends who

go back a long way.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                        11.      *

Branca, Luigi and several other Toscani patriarchs smoke

cigars and sip beer in a cluster. Nico holds Julian.

Branca glances seriously to the other uncles, then, with a

smile, pats Nico's cheek.

Branca laughs. From a distance, Watanabe watches, missing

nothing. Across the porch, Lukich and several other cops

observe and try to listen.

Jackson watches Nico trying to keep his good humor. This

is serious stuff, despite the light tone. Branca's eyes

meet Nico's.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87                        12.

Jackson and Lukich crack up. The others follow.   For the

moment, the tension is dispelled.

Nico comes out of the bedroom, adjusting his shoulder

holster, tugging his jacket over it. He sees his mother

standing near the head of the stairs, just outside

another bedroom door. Concern on her face.

Nico comes down the hall, tucking in his shirt -- stops

to give his mother a squeeze. O.S. from the bedroom:

the sound of QUIET SOBBING. Nico glances in.

Sara and another woman sit on the bed, comforting a 60-ish   *

grandmother Zingaro, who is crying. Nico comes in. He

kneels before MRS. ZINGARO, concerned.

The poor woman can't meet Nico's eyes.

Nico glances from Sara to Rosa.                              *

Mrs. Zingaro shakes her head, choked with pain. Nico

holds her, looking over her shoulder toward Sara.            *

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87                          13.

Sara doesn't know. Nico does.     He comforts Mrs. Zingaro   *

another moment, then stands.

Nico kisses Mrs. Z. He takes Sara's hand in goodbye,         *

starts for the door.

Festivities still in progress. Nico passes through,

nodding, thanking people for coming, taking farewells.

Jackson waits for him, glancing at her watch.

Nico is driving.   Jackson checks in on the radio.

moves into the central city.

Bad-looking hombres on stoops, street corners.

WIDEN SHOT to include Nico and Jackson.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87                          14.

The unmarked car pulls up outside a liquor store and bar.

as it parks. Jackson gives Nico a look:     "What are we

stopping at this dive for"?

He gets out of the car, starts for the bar.

Dim, smoke-choked, dangerous characters at the bar.    Nico

enters.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                            15.

His silk shirt and sport coat clash with the druggy, working-

class attire of the bar's denizens. Hard faces check him out

subtly, ignore him. Nico approaches the bartender, shows a

photograph. The bartender (BAD DUDE) shakes his head.

He continues mouthing off to Nico. Nico moves to one stool,     *

then another; the same exchange is repeated.

A hulking bruiser with an earring.   He watches as --

approaches him. Three ARMY JACKETS look up sullenly.

Beefy arms, tattoos, greasy mustaches.

One Jacket treats him like he doesn't exist, and begins

to pick his nose.

The two others snicker, then so does the rest of the bar.

Nico holds out a photo of a young girl (Lucy).

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                          17.

Nico grabs the Pimp by the scruff of the neck, lifting him

bodily. Lucy starts wailing in horror. Nico smashes the

Pimp's face down into a mirror with white powder on the

table --

He jerks the Pimp back, rips open a drawer.    More pills

and glacene bags.

Lucy is crying hysterically. Nico flings the Pimp, face          *

bloody, toward the open door.                                    *

Three young STUDS have ambled to the window of her parked

car.

With infinite boredom, Jackson lifts her badge -- and

gun. The Studs shuffle away.

Other tenants stare from doorways as Nico drags the Pimp         *

to the top of the flight of stairs, threatening to throw         *

him down.                                                        *

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                        18.

The Pimp is dazed, bloody. Nico comes down with Lucy,

hauls the Pimp to his feet --

Nico lifts the Pimp by the throat, pins him to the wall.

Nico glances to Lucy. Half of him wants to tear the

Pimp apart, the other half doesn't want to make the poor

girl's life any more tragic. Besides, he's a good cop

-- and maybe this "shipment" is on the level.

Nico relents -- a little.

Nico tightens his grip on the Pimp's throat.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                          19.   *

Jackson looks up from the car to see Nico -- wild-haired,

shirt ripped and bloody -- emerging from the adjacent

apartment stoop, leading young Lucy, who's tear-streaked,

wearing a torn dressing gown. Instantly, Jackson is out

of the car, moving to Lucy.

She wraps an arm around Lucy, helps her toward the car.

From the door of the bar, several bloodied heads peek.

Jackson checks out her battered partner.

Nico opens the rear door, helps Jackson ease Lucy in.

From the front seat of Nico's car emerges a tearful Lucy,

in fresh clothes and looking miserably contrite. Nico

walks her inside.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                         20.       *

The Zingaro family is busy preparing for the night's baking.

Grandpa and Grandma Zingaro leave their work and receive

their waif-like granddaughter. With eyes watering they

thank Nico. They disappear upstairs with Lucy. Jackson,

standing in the doorway, has seen all this.

Nico at the wheel has just pulled away from the bakery.

Jackson, in the passenger seat, studies her partner for a

few moments, shaking her head at the contradictions in this

man. Educated, classy, an elegant dresser -- yet underneath

an out-and-out wild man.

For a long moment Nico says nothing.   Then, quietly, look-

ing straight ahead:

He turns to Jackson.

ANGLE INCLUDING MEAN STREETS OUTSIDE

He turns a corner.

Some of the chocolates tumble onto the lockup floor, the

detainees snap them up, start munching. The girl con-

tinues to spit curses at Nico, gesturing with her hands

with Latin flamboyance. Nico grabs her by the elbow, as

a jailer opens the lockup door. More curses are being

flung at Nico from various females in the cage. Nico

heaves Carla in among them. Carla flops down on a bench

next to a tall black hooker. MOVE IN ON the black hooker.

It's Nico's partner, Jackson, dolled up like a street-

walker, playing her undercover role to the hilt.

Carla fires one final parting salvo of obscenities, then

sags back among the women. Carla starts to cry. Jackson

comforts her; Carla responds, lets herself be comforted.

Jackson, back in her normal daytime wear, exits a

building. She gets into Nico's car.

Jackson checks her makeup in the rearview mirror. Nico

sits behind the wheel. The two are on some kind of

stakeout.

Jackson spots something, gestures subtly out window --

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                           22.

A short, slick-looking Latin man in a business suit emerges

from the building.

Nico and Jackson leave their car and follow him on foot.

ABANDANO meets a striking-looking middle-aged woman in front

of a stately financial institution. They go in. Jackson

remains out on the street, while Nico follows the couple in.

Jackson has been waiting, sipping some coffee. Nico

emerges from the bank, signaling to his partner to follow

him. Abandano and the woman exit from the bank's revol-

ving doors and immediately jump into a cab. Nico and

Jackson look at each other and step in front of another

cab. Nico opens the cab door, flips his badge open, then

asks the occupant to leave. Jackson gets in the front

seat next to the protesting cabbie.

Abandano and the woman are crossing the plaza as Nico and

Jackson run up the block. Near the entrance to the Federal     *

Building, a small but vocal group of protestors are            *

gathered, carrying signs and chanting slogans. The frus-       *

trated cabbie watches them in the background.

Jackson and Nico watch Abandano and the woman pass the        *

crowd of demonstrators and enter the building. Jackson acts *

indifferent, almost frustrated; Nico keenly senses something.

The main dining room. No customers, just busboys readying

tables for the evening's business. We notice one of the        *

busboys is the "pimp" Nico found with Lucy.                    *

The owner's table. Stacks of dining checks, a cashbox

and calculator, full ashtrays, wine glasses. BAUTISTA

SALVANO, a heavyset, swarthy Venezuelan dressed in a tux

with the collar open, glowers across the table at a mus-

cular, scar-faced Latin busboy -- the kind who looks like

he does more for his boss than clean up the tables. The

busboy (NARDO) is nervous, apologetic --

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                          23.

Salvano glowers at Nardo like he's about to punch him.

Instead he reaches over, playfully chokes the busboy --

then releases him, as if all is forgiven.

Nardo enters at the top of the stairs, radiating relief.

He trots down into the empty basement, toward a floor-to-

ceiling wine rack.

He crosses to the wine rack. It's dark, hard to see.

He searches for the bottle. Suddenly: a METALLIC sound

behind him. Nardo turns -- CHI CHI TESTAMENTE, a wiry,

pock-faced Latino, stands in the shadows (it is clear he

has been waiting there, hiding) -- holding a small

silencer automatic.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                           24.

One SHOT between the eyes and Nardo CRASHES backward into

the WINE RACK, eyes wide with shock and bewilderment. Chi

Chi SHOOTS him AGAIN; Nardo drops like a stone. Coolly,

professionally, Chi Chi pumps FOUR more SHOTS into the

prone busboy's head. Chi Chi ejects the clip into his

palm, unscrews the silencer, holsters the gun. Salvano

appears at the top of the stairs. Two busboys are behind

him. One of them is the young pimp. The busboys hurry        *

down, the pimp -- scared shitless but playing it macho-cool. *

Salvano comes down the stairs. Chi Chi stands over his work.

Salvano and Chi Chi emerge from the basement steps and

walk toward their booth.

Salvano puts a hand on Chi Chi's shoulder.

Rusting cyclone fences surround   a mud-lot repair yard in a

dingy industrial section. Young    Lation and black workers

finish up for the night; through   the dirty, security-barred

office window we can see Chi Chi   talking on the phone. The

lawyer, Abandano, is also there.

Nico finishes connecting a small transmitter which has

been hastily wired to the entering phone line.

Nico and Jackson in the shadows down the street from the

body shop. Nico wears earphones, a small tape recorder

on the seat beside him. Jackson does not look happy.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                          25.

Jackson gives Nico a dirty look, but stifles her protest.

Nico hears something through the earphones.    Gestures for

silence --

Chi Chi listens with increased intensity to something on the

phone. He starts writing it down --

In unmarked car.   He's writing it down too.

Chi Chi emerges from the office, tucking a scrap

of paper into his pocket. Abandano follows. They get

into a late-model Lincoln which pulls out onto the street.     *

Nico and Jackson's car follows at a discreet distance.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                           26.

Jackson picks up Nico's pad to take down the response.

After a moment:

As Nico and Jackson tail the Lincoln out of the industrial

zone into a fancier, non-Latin neighborhood. On the sidewalks

we glimpse theatergoers, fashionable white couples out on the

town.

Pulls up to a valet park outside a ton-y restaurant.    A

sign says: "BOGOTA."                                           *

Nico and Jackson exchange a glance.

Chi Chi and Abandano get out of their car, a valet takes it,

Chi Chi enters the restaurant.

Nico and Jackson enter the main dining room, which we

recognize from the scene with Nardo the busboy.

The place is packed with fashionable people of all races.

A band plays salsa; couples dance. Nico and Jackson pass

easily as a hip "uptown" couple. A pretty Latin HOSTESS

approaches them.

They elbow up to the packed bar, standing.   Nico squints

toward the rear dining room.

Looking past numerous patrons, we see Chi Chi whisper

something to a waiter and take a seat at a rear table

(the same "owner's table" where Salvano sat before.)

The waiter hurries off into a back hallway.

Jackson moves to the salsa beat.   A BARMAID approaches.

Nico's eyes never leave Chi Chi.

From the back hallway Salvano emerges -- in his tux,

looking prosperous. He sits down beside Chi Chi and

Abandano. A waitress brings two drinks. After a few

words, Chi Chi removes the scrap of paper from his pocket,

hands it to Salvano.

As the Barmaid brings their drinks. Jackson sees her

peaceful week to retirement flying out the window.

Nico grabs her waist, pulls her onto the dance floor, and

does a playful twirl.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87   28A.

Nothing happening.

ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87                          29.

Dead as hell.

Bored, pissed off, tired.   Suddenly:

emerges from a corner, two blocks down.    It starts slowly

this way.

The meat truck men duck down out of sight, the pickup men

back into the shadows. Nico and Lukich keep raking cow

guts. The van passes slowly, checking out the area.

The van accelerates slightly, turns a corner, vanishes.

Silence.

The van returns.   On a cross street.   Heading behind the

packing plant.

Now a second car appears. The Lincoln. Behind it is an

ancient station wagon. Both vehicles take a different

cross street, but both heading behind the packing plant.

As soon as the two vehicles pass out of sight, Nico and

Lukich ditch their rakes, dart into the packing plant.

The meat truck men START their TRUCK.

Nico, in the crush of convention-goers, pauses before a

booth promoting a TV manufacturer. The latest model TV's

are set up in a sales display, with visitors gawking at

the pictures of the church bombing aftermath.

A police composite rendering of the woman who placed the

bomb at the church is shown on the television.

Nico's police ID photo appears on the news.   He blends

back into the crowd.

Nico moves swiftly through the convention center floor

(which is packed for thousands of square feet with sales

booths, each manned by technicians and pitchmen, all

displaying the latest in high-tech data processing

equipment, telecommunications, etc.)

Jax stuffs a wad of offical papers -- including appoint-

ment books, notes and tapes -- into her briefcase. At

the apartment door, she looks both ways, then emerges,

starts away down the hallway.

Nico in the crowd in front of the booth of a Japanese

computer manufacturer. Dr. Watanabe (Nico's friend whom

we remember from the baptism/picnic scene) is the chief

engineer at the booth, showing off some high-tech

equipment to several brainy looking executives.

Watanabe glances up, spots Nico. Nico makes a subtle

sign to indicate he must speak to Watanabe. Watanabe

crosses at once to Nico.

