FADE IN

SOMETIME IN THE FUTURE - SPACE                            1

Silent and endless.  The stars shine like the love of

God...cold and remote.  Against them drifts a tiny chip

of technology.

CLOSER SHOT  It is the NARCISSUS, lifeboat of the

ill-fated star-freighter Nostromo.  Without interior

or running lights it seems devoid of life.  The PING

of a RANGING RADAR grows louder, closer.  A shadow

engulfs the Narcissus.  Searchlights flash on, playing

over the tiny ship, as a MASSIVE DARK HULL descends

toward it.

INT. NARCISSUS                                            2

Dark and dormant as a crypt.  The searchlights stream

in the dusty windows.  Outside, massive metal forms can

BE SEEN descending around the shuttle.  Like the tolling

of a bell, a BASSO PROFUNDO CLANG reverberates through

the hull.

CLOSE ON THE AIRLOCK DOOR  Light glares as a cutting

torch bursts through the metal.  Sparks shower into the

room.

A second torch cuts through.  They move with machine

precision, cutting a rectangular path, converging.  The

torches meet.  Cut off.  The door falls inward REVEALING

a bizarre multi-armed figure.  A ROBOT WELDER.

FIGURES ENTER, backlit and ominous.  THREE MEN in

bio-isolation suits, carrying lights and equipment.  They

approach a sarcophaguslike HYPERSLEEP CAPSULE, f.g.

His gloved hand wipes at on opaque layer of dust on the

canopy.

ANGLE INSIDE CAPSULE  as light stabs in where the dust is

wiped away, illuminating a WOMAN, her face in peaceful

repose.

WARRANT OFFICER RIPLEY, sole survivor of the Nostromo.

Nestled next to her is JONES, the ship's wayward cat.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - TIGHT ON RIPLEY - GATEWAY STATION    3

She's lying in a bed, looking wan, as a female MED-TECH

raises the backrest.  She is surrounded by arcane white

MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.  The Med-Tech exudes practiced

cheeriness.

Harsh light floods in as a motorized shield slides into

the ceiling, REVEALING a breathtaking vista.  Beyond the

sprawling complex of modular habitats, collectively

called GATEWAY STATION, is the curve of EARTH as seen

from high orbit.  Blue and serene.

Ripley shrugs, not caring.  The door opens and a MAN

enters, although Ripley sees only what he is carrying.

A familiar large, orange TOMCAT.

She grabs the cat like a life preserver.

Jones patiently endures Ripley's embarrassing display,

seeming none the worse for wear.  The visitor sits

beside the bed and Ripley finally notices him.  He is

thirtyish and handsome, in a suit that looks executive

or legal, the tie loosened with studied casualness.  A

smile referred to as "winning."

Ripley grabs his arm, surprising him.

Burke gazes at her, thoughtful.

Ripley is stunned.  She seems to deflate, her expression

passing through amazement and shock to realization of

all she has lost.  Friends.  Family.  Her world.

Ripley coughs suddenly as if choking and her expression

becomes one of dawning horror.  Burke hands her a glass

of water from the nightstand.  She slaps it away.  It

shatters with a SMASH.  Jones dives, yowling.  Ripley

grabs her chest, struggling as if she is strangling.

The Med-Tech hits a console button.

Burke and the Med-Tech are holding Ripley's shoulders as

she goes into convulsions.  A DOCTOR and TWO TECHS run

in.  Ripley's back arches in agony.

They try to restrain her as she thrashes, knocking over

equipment.  Her EKG races like mad.  Jones, under a

cabinet, hisses wide-eyed.

AN EXPLOSION OF BLOOD beneath the sheet covering her

chest!  Ripley stares at the SHAPE RISING UNDER THE

SHEET.  Tearing itself out of her.

HER P.O.V. as the sheet rises.  A GLIMPSE OF the

CHITTERING HORROR...IT SCREECHES.

TIGHT ON RIPLEY  screaming, snapping up INTO FRAME.

Alone in the darkened hospital room.  She gasps for

breath, clutching pathetically at her chest.  There is

no demented horror rigging itself out of her.  Her eyes

snap about wildly, slowly focusing on the reality of

her safety.  Shuddering, bathed in sweat, she kneads her

breastbone with the heel of her hand and sobs.

A VIDEO MONITOR beside the bed snaps on.  A MED-TECH's

face.

The Med-Tech shrugs and switches off.  Touching a button

on the nightstand she opens the viewport, REVEALING

Gateway and the turquoise Earth.  She hugs Jones to her

and rocks with him like a child, still shattered by the

nightmare.  Shivering.  Sleep is far off.

But at what price?

EXT. PARK                                                 4

Sunlight streams in shafts through a stand of poplars,

beyond which a verdant meadow is VISIBLE.

EXTREME F.G.  Jones stalks toward a bird hopping among

fallen leaves.  He leaps.  And smack into A WALL.

WIDER ANGLE  as Jones steps back confused from the

HIGH-RESOLUTION ENVIRONMENTAL WALL SCREEN, a sort of

cinerama video-loop.  Ripley sits on a bench in what we

now SEE is an ATRIUM off the medical center, still

somewhere in the bowels of Gateway Station.  Benches.

Some unenthusiastic potted trees.  The sterile corridors

VISIBLE beyond glass doors b.g.

Burke ENTERS in his usual mode, casual haste.

Ripley seems healthier now, but still a bit brittle.

He opens his briefcase, removing a sheet of printer

hard copy, including a telestat photo.

Ripley studies the PHOTOGRAPH, stunned.

The face of a woman in her mid-sixties.  It could be

anybody.  She tries to reconcile the face with the

little girl she once knew.

Ripley gazes off, into the pseudo-landscape, into the

past.

Burke nods, a simpatico presence.

Let's get one thing straight...Ripley can be one tough

lady.  But the terror, the loss, the emptiness are, in

this moment, overwhelming.  She cries silently.

Burke puts a reassuring hand on her arm.

INT. CORRIDOR - GATEWAY                                   5

Elevator doors part and Ripley emerges, in mid-conversation

with Burke.  DOLLYING AHEAD OF THEM as they move rapidly

down the corridor.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - ON RIPLEY - GATEWAY                6

She's not cool.  Not unemotional.

She faces the EIGHT MEMBERS of the board of inquiry at a

long conference table.  Gray suits and grim faces.  They

aren't buying.  Behind Ripley on a large VIDEO SCREEN,

PARKER grins like a goon from his personnel mugshot.  His

file prints out next to it.  BRETT's face and dossier

replace it, and then the others as the SCENE continues...

KANE, LAMBERT, ASH the android traitor, DALLAS.

VAN LEUWEN, the ICC representative, steeples his fingers

and frowns.

Ripley sense the noose tightening.

The ECA (Extrasolar Colonization Administration)

Representative (ECA REP) just shakes his head.

Ripley glares at the ECA Rep, a woman on the ungenerous

side of fifty.  Van Leuwen sighs with exasperation.

Ripley grits her teeth in frustration.

Ripley glances at Burke, silent at the far end of the

table.  His expression is grim.  Her mouth hardens as

a bit of the old nail-eating Ripley surfaces.

Van Leuwen stands, out of patience.

Ripley stares him down, glowering at the board.

Ripley turns sharply away, trembling with frustration

and anger.  Dallas looks back at her from the video

screen, his eyes burning from the photograph, as we:

INT. CORRIDOR                                             7

Ripley kicks the wall next to Burke who is getting coffee

and donuts at a vending machine.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - TIGHT ON RIPLEY - LATER            8

Van Leuwen clears his throat.

Burke watches Ripley taking it on the chin, white-lipped

but subdued.

INT. CORRIDOR                                             9

DOLLY BACK as the conference room door bangs open and

Ripley strides through.  She shrugs off Burke's

restraining arm and catches up to Van Leuwen walking

down the corridor.

Van Leuwen steps into an elevator with some others, but

Ripley holds the door from closing.

The door tries to close.  Ripley slams it back.  People

are getting annoyed.

Ripley's hand slides off the door, strengthless.

TIGHT ON HER  FROM INSIDE the elevator as the doors close

like fate on her lost expression.

EXT. ALIEN LANDSCAPE - DAY                               10

A hideous, storm-blasted vista.  Tortured rock forms.

Bleak twilight at midday.

PAN SLOWLY ONTO a CORRODED METAL SIGN set in concrete

pylons, which reads:

Some local has added below in spray-can graffiti

"Have a nice day."  Gale-force wind SCREECHES around

the steel sign, driving a freezing rain.

The COLONY, b.g., is a squat complex with lots of

floodlights.

EXT. COLONY COMPLEX                                      11

The town is a cluster of bunkerlike metal and concrete

buildings connected by conduits.  Neon signs throw garish

colors across the vaultlike walls, advertising bars and

other businesses.  It looks like a sodden cross between

the Krupps munitions works and a truckstop casino in

the Nevada boondocks.

Huge-wheeled tractors crawl toadlike in the rutted

"street" and vanish down rampways to underground garages.

ANGLE ON THE CONTROL BLOCK  the largest structure.  It

resembles vaguely the superstructure of an aircraft

carrier...a flying bridge.

VISIBLE across a half kilometer of barren heath, b.g.,

is the massive complex of the nearest ATMOSPHERE

PROCESSOR, looking like a power plant bred with an active

volcano.  Its fiery glow pulses in the low cloud cover

like a steel mill.

INT. MAIN CONCOURSE - NEAR CONTROL BLOCK                 12

A central space, laid out like a scaled-down shopping

mall with no styling flourishes.  We SEE a cross section

of the types of people who have come to live on

Godforsaken Acheron.  Tough.  Pragmatic.  "Grapes of

Wrath" faces.  Calloused hands.  Not too many interior

decorators.  Some children race in the corridor on things

that look suspiciously like "Big Wheels."

INT. OPERATIONS ROOM - CONTROL BLOCK                     13

Jammed with computer terminals, technicians, displays...

most of the business of running the colony flows through

here.  It's high tech but used and scrungy.  Papers

piled up.  Coffee cup rings.

DOLLY AHEAD OF LYDECKER, the Assistant Operations Manager,

as he catches up to the harried Operating Manager,

SIMPSON.

EXT. ACHERON - THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE - A SIX-WHEELED     14

TRACTOR - DAY

It roars across corrugated rock, blasting through soggy

drifts of volcanic ash.

INT. TRACTOR                                             15

At the controls, intent on a PINGING scope, is RUSS JORDEN,

independent prospector.  Beside him is his wife/partner

ANNE and in the back their two kids are playing among the

heavy sampling equipment.

NEWT, their six-year-old daughter, yells from the back...

Her older brother TIM sticks his jeering face close to

hers.

ANGLE THROUGH FRONT CANOPY  ON a bizarre shape looming

ahead.  An enormous bonelike mass projecting upward from

the bed of ash.  The tractor slows.

Canted on its side and buckles against a rock outcropping

by the lava flow, it is still recognizable as an

EXTRATERRESTRIAL SHIP.  Bio-mechanoid.  Nonhuman design.

EXT. TRACTOR                                             16

Jorden and Anne step down, wearing ENVIRONMENT SUITS.

Carrying LIGHTS, PACKS, CAMERAS, TEST GEAR.  Their

breath clouds in the chill air.

They trudge toward the alien derelict.

They pause at a twisted gash in the hull.  Blackness

inside.

INT./EXT. TRACTOR                                        17

Newt has her face pressed to the glass, steaming it.

Watching her parents enter the strange ship.  Tim GRABS

HER from behind.  She SHRIEKS.

EXT. LANDSCAPE - NIGHT                                   18

The tractor and the derelict are dark and motionless.

The wind HOWLS around them.

Tim is curled up in the driver's seat.  Newt shakes him

awake, trying hard not to cry.

Tim considers the night.  The wind.  The vast landscape.

He bites his lip.

CRASH!  Newt SCREAMS as the door beside her is RIPPED

OPEN.  A dark shape lunges inside!

Anne, panting and terrified, grabs the dash mike.

As Anne shouts the mayday Newt looks past her, to the

ground.  Russ Jorden lies there inert, dragged somehow

by Anne from inside the ship.  There is SOMETHING ON

HIS FACE.  An appalling MULTILEGGED CREATURE, pulsing

with obscene life.  Newt begins to SCREAM hysterically,

competing with the shrieking wind which rises to a

crescendo as we:

INT. RIPLEY'S APARTMENT - GATEWAY - DAY                  20

Silence.  Ripley, looking haggard, sits at a table in

the dining alcove contemplating the smoke rising from

her cigarette.  The place is modest, to be charitable,

and there are few personal touches.  Though it's late

in the day Ripley is still wearing a robe.  The bed is

unmade.  Dishes in the sink.  Jones prowls across the

counter.  The WALLSCREEN is on, blaring vapidly.

The door BUZZES.  Ripley jumps like a cat.  Jones doesn't.

INT. CORRIDOR                                            21

Carter Burke stands in the narrow, dingy corridor with

LIEUTENANT GORMAN, Colonial Marine Corps.  Young and

severe in his officer's dress-black.  The door opens

slightly.

SLAM.  Burke buzzes again.  Talks to the door...

The door opens.  Ripley considers the ramifications of

that.  She motions them inside.

INT. RIPLEY'S APARTMENT - A LITTLE LATER                 22

Burke and Gorman are seated, nursing coffee.  Ripley

paces, very tense.

We SEE that she's gut scared, covering it with anger.

Burke sees it.

Burke is revealing his early days in sales.

Burke leans close, a let's-cut-the-crap intimacy.

Burke nods to Gorman who rises with him.  He slips a

TRANSLUCENT CARD onto the table, heads for the door.

EXT. ACHERON LANDSCAPE - NIGHT                           23

As the wind HOWLS through tormented rock, BUILDING IN

PITCH until we:

INT. APARTMENT                                           24

Ripley lunges INTO FRAME with an animal outcry.  She

clutches her chest, breathing hard.  Bathed in sweat

she lights a cigarette with trembling hands.  Do we

hear a faint, desolate wind?

TIGHT ON PHONE CONSOLE  as Ripley's hand inserts Burke's

card into a slot.  "STAND BY" prints out on the screen

and is replaced by Burke's face, bleary with sleep.

CLOSEUP - RIPLEY  taking a deep slow breath.  It's time

to look the demon in the eye.

She punches off before Burke replies, before she can

change her mind.  She turns to Jones sitting on the

bed and her tone becomes admonishing...

Jones blinks, cynical cat eyes..."count me right

out."

EXT. DEEP SPACE - THREE WEEKS LATER                      25

An empty starfield.  Metal spires slice ACROSS FRAME.

A mountain of steel following.  A massive military

transport ship, the SULACO.  Ugly, battered...

functional.

INT. CORRIDOR TO CARGO LOCK                              26

An empty corridor, seemingly miles long.  No movement.

The THRUMMING of hyperdrive engines.

INT. CARGO LOCK                                          27

An enormous chamber, cavernous and dark.  Squatting

in the shadows are two orbit-to-surface shuttles.

DROP-SHIPS.  Heavy machinery all around them...

cranes, loading equipment.

INT. BRIDGE                                              28

Dark electronic womb.  CAMERA DOLLIES SLOWLY among

murmuring instrumentation.  A sudden high-pitched

TRILLING accompanies a sequence of lights.  An alarm.

INT. HYPERSLEEP VAULT                                    29

Blackness, until a bank of indicators lights up.

Hydraulics lift a grid of equipment from a row of

horizontal HYPERSLEEP CYLINDERS.  It reaches the

ceiling.  Locks.

CLOSE ON RIPLEY'S CAPSULE  as trickles of water run

down the frosted canopy.

INT. HYPERSLEEP VAULT                                    30

Lit up, white and sterile.

The canopies of the row of capsules are raised.  Ripley

sits up.  Rubs her arms briskly.  Next to her Gorman

and Burke are stirring and beyond them the troopers,

wearing shorts and dog tags.  They are:

The ship is fully automated in interstellar flight so

there is no crew, except for EXECUTIVE OFFICER (ECA) Bishop,

who supervises planetary maneuvering.

GROANS echo across the chamber.

SPUNKMEYER says this sincerely, though he must have

enlisted underage not long ago.  Looking surly, DRAKE

sits up.  He's young as well but street-tough.  Nasty

scar curling his lip into a sneer.

HICKS, an older lifer-type who keeps his own counsel,

just snorts good-naturedly.

Ripley scans the group as they shuffle past her to a

bank of lockers.  Though not supermen they are lean and

hardened...tough, capable, jaded.  They combine the

specialized techno-combat training of the twenty-first

century fighting man with those qualities universal to

"grunts" through the ages.  SERGEANT APONE moves down the

row of freezers.

Ripley steps back as the troopers shuffle past nodding

cursory hellos.  She feels isolated by the camaraderie

of this tightknit group.

VASQUEZ eyes her coldly as she passes.  Like Drake,

Vasquez is younger then the rest and her combat-primer

was the street in a Los Angeles barrio.  She is tough

even by the standards of this group.  Hard-muscled.

Eyes cunning and mean.

She slaps Drake's open palm and it clenches into a

greeting which is part contest.  It gets rougher.

Painful.  Until she cuffs him hard and they break with

vicious laughter.  Dobermans playing.  Conscripted from

juvenile prison, the two of them were trained to

operate the formidable "SMART-GUNS."  That is part

of their bond.

BISHOP is helping everyone like a valet.  As he passes

close to her Ripley notices a strange TATTOO across

the back of his left hand...an ALPHA-NUMERIC CODE.

INT. SHOWERS                                             31

High pressure water jets and a blast of hot air when

you step out...a drive through car wash for people.

Through the swirling steam Hudson, Vasquez and FERRO

are watching Ripley dry off.

INT. MESS HALL                                           32

An unconscious segregation takes place at the troopers

assemble at one long table while Gorman, Burke, Bishop

and Ripley sit at another.  Everybody is nursing a

coffee, waiting for eggs from the AUTOCHEF.  Among the

troopers dress discipline is lax...fatigues customized

and emblazoned with patches.  Drake's tunic is cut off

to a vest and has "Eat the apple and fuck the Corps"

stenciled on back.  "Peace Through Superior Firepower,"

"Pray for War" and "I've Served My Time in Hell:  Cetti

Epsilon NC-104" are some others.

Apone is stocky, grizzled, with peregrine eyes.  He runs

it loose and fair, but only because he knows his people

are the best.

Across the room, at the other table, Gorman sits with

his creases perfect...the consummate strack NCO.  Bishop

takes a seat beside Ripley, who pointedly gets up and

moves to the far side of the table.  He looks wounded.

Ripley spins on Burke, her tone accusing.

Bishop turns to Ripley, very conciliatory.

WHAM!  Ripley knocks the plate out of his hand, halfway

across the room.

Burke and Gorman exchange glances.

Wierzbowski, at the next table, shrugs and turns back

to the other troopers.

INT. READY ROOM - TIGHT ON APONE - ARMORY                33

bellowing.

WIDER ANGLE  as the troops snap to from their lounging

among the racks of high-tech weaponry.  Gorman enters

with Burke and Ripley.

Gorman nods to Ripley, who stands before the troops.

She sets some RECORDING DISKETTES on the table.

Vasquez coolly points her finger, cocks her thumbs, and

blows away an imaginary alien.

Hudson settles down, smirking.  Ripley locks eyes with

Vasquez.

Gorman scowls then, thanking Ripley with a nod, takes

over the predrop briefing.

EXT. SPACE - ACHERON                                     34

They have arrived.  From orbit the planet looks serene

...Pearlescent cloud cover masking the environmental

torment beneath.  The SULACO floats, its MANEUVERING

JETS FIRING.  A bluish glow.  Then twice more, rapidly.

INT. BRIDGE                                              35

Bishop is installed in his command seat, hemmed in by

instrumentation.

INT. LOADING BAY - TIGHT ON MASSIVE FORKS - CARGO LOCK   34

sliding into a heavy ordnance rack with an echoing

CLANG.  PULL BACK as the rack of tactical missiles is

lifted, REVEALING two powerful hydraulic arms.

Spunkmeyer, seated inside a POWER LOADER, swings the

ordnance up into a belly nacelle of the DROP-SHIP where

it locks into place.  As he exerts pressure with his

hands against the servo-controls the hydraulic arms

move correspondingly...but with a thousandfold increase

in power.  The forklift-style CLAWS on each arm can

crush with tons of pressure.  The loader has an open

ROLL CAGE to protect the operator, and is supported

by squat HYDRAULIC LEGS which also move correspondingly

with the driver's movements.

You have never seen anything like this before.

Advanced as it is to us, it's only an old forklift

to them...battered and well used.  Covered with grease.

Repainted many times.  Across the back is stencilled

"CATERPILLAR."

Spunkmeyer's machine swings out from under the drop-ship

and we become aware of the intense activity throughout

the cavernous loading bay.  Troopers on foot or driving

TOW-MOWERS, OVERHEAD LOADING ARMS...all in motion.

Hicks checks off items on an electronic manifest.

INT. READY ROOM - ARMORY                                 37

Wierzbowski, Drake and Vasquez are fieldstripping

light weapons with precise movements.  Around them,

in racks, is an arsenal of advanced personal

artillery.

Vasquez likes the feel of the guns, the weight...the

authority.  Her hands move without hesitation.  CLACK.

CLACK.  CLACK.  She swings one of the SMART-GUNS out

on a work stand.  Using a body brace and GYRO-STABILIZED

SUPPORT ARM, it is a computer-aimed, video targeted

automatic weapon.  The futuristic equivalent of a .30

caliber light machine gun.  Sort of a steadicam that

kills.

INT. LOADING BAY - ANGLE ON BURKE AND GORMAN             38

with pre-flight activity b.g.

Ripley watches the drop-ship being loaded.  A cross

between a Huey Aircobra gunship and the space shuttle

might describe it.  An orbit-to-surface troop carrier,

heavily armed for the close support of ground missions.

She watches a six-wheeled APC, ARMORED PERSONNEL

CARRIER, being raised hydraulically into the ship's

belly.  Ripley looks around as Frost wheels a rack of

incomprehensible equipment toward her.

Ripley jumps aside, nodding apologetically.  She turns.

Steps hastily back.  Hudson cruises by with a laden

forklift.

ANGLE ON APONE  standing with Hicks, as Ripley approaches

him

Apone turns.  A SECOND POWER LOADER sits unused in

an equipment bay.

TWO SHOT APONE AND HICKS  skeptical.  Considering.

TIGHT ON POWER SWITCH  as Ripley's finger punches it on.

A RISING WHINE of power.

TIGHT ON THE HYDRAULICS  as the massive machine stirs

to life.

FULL, as the loader starts.  Ripley is strapped into

the safety cage, her arms and legs inserted in the

servo-sensor assemblies.  She takes a step.  BOOM!

Two tons of hardened steel takes a step.

Ripley spins the wrist servos.  The huge claws swing,

open...slide smoothly into lifting brackets on a

cargo module, nearby.  She raises it deftly.

Hicks looks at Apone, cocks an eyebrow appreciatively.

INT. READY ROOM - ARMORY                                 39

The troopers are suiting up for the drop.  Strapping on

their bulky COMBAT-ARMOR...interlocking plates like

football padding.  They tape their wrists.  Draw on

segmented boots.  The sole cleats CLACK like hooves

on the deck plates.  Lockers SLAM.

WEB BELTS.  PACKS.  HARNESSES.  HELMETS.  COM-SETS.

Their fingers move methodically over the fastenings.

It has its own rhythm...CLICK.  CLICK.  CLICK.

INT. DROP-SHIP - APC                                     40

Ripley, wearing a flight jacket and headset, files into

the ship with the hulking troopers.  Inside they pass

directly into the APC we saw loaded earlier and take

seats facing each other across a narrow aisle.  They will

drop already strapped into their ground vehicle for

rapid deployment.  A KLAXON SOUNDS, signalling

depressurization of the cargo lock.

Hudson prowls the aisle, his movements predatory and

exaggerated.  Ripley watches him working his way toward

her.

He slaps the SERVO-CANNON controls in the GUN BAY

above them.

Hicks grabs Hudson by his battle harness and pulls him

into a seat.  His voice is low, but it carries.

Ripley nods her thanks to Hicks.  MOTORS WHINE and the

craft lurches.  Burke, next to Ripley, grins eagerly

like this is a sport fishing trip.

She looks like she's in a gas chamber waiting for the

pellet to drop.

EXT. SULACO                                              41

The drop-ship lowers from the cargo-lock on a massive

launch rig.  The night side of Acheron yawns below...

enigmatic.

INT. COCKPIT                                             42

Ferro and Spunkmeyer run rapidly through the switches.

EXT. SULACO - DROP-SHIP                                  43

Hydraulic WHINE.  Clamps SLAM BACK.  The ship drops.

INT. DROP-SHIP - APC                                     44

Apone, stalking the aisle, snatches for a handhold.

Bishop, Burke and Gorman groan at the sudden gees.

Ripley closes her eyes...the point of no return.

EXT. DROP-SHIP                                           45

It screams down through the stratosphere, plunging

into dark turbulence.

INT. COCKPIT                                             46

Beyond the canopy is gray limbo.  The craft shudders

and lurches.

INT. HOLD - APC                                          47

TIGHT ON HICKS  asleep in his harness.

TIGHT ON GORMAN  as the ship begins to buck, his eyes

closed.  Pale.  Sweating.  He rubs his hands on his

knees repeatedly.

Vasquez and Drake exchange do-you-believe-this-shit

expressions.  Ripley looks accusingly at Burke.

INT. COCKPIT                                             48

EXT. DROP-SHIP                                           49

It emerges from the low cloud ceiling.  From the twilight

haze ahead the distant colony LANDING BEACONS become

visible.

INT. HOLD - APC                                          50

Stumbling as the ship pitches, Ripley makes her way

forward to the MOBILE TACTICAL OPERATIONS BAY (MTOB),

a control console lined with monitor screens.  She

joins Burke watching over Gorman's shoulder as the

Lieutenant plays the board like a video director.

TIGHT ON MONITOR CONSOLE  REVEALING screens labelled with

the names of the troopers.  Two for each soldier.  The

upper screens show images from the IMAGE-INTENSIFIED

VIDEO CAMERAS in their helmets.  The lower screens are

BIO-MONITORS:  EEG, EKG, and other graphic life-function

readouts.  Other screens show EXTERIOR VIEWS.

CLOSE ON DRAKE  as he whacks himself on the head with

an ammo case.  A familiar malfunction.

A clatter of activity as they don backpacks and weapons.

Vasquez and Drake buckle on their smart-gun body

harnesses.

Ripley watches the AP station loom on the exterior

screens.

EXT. SHIP - AP STATION                                   51

The tiny ship circles the roaring tower.  A metal

volcano thundering like the engines on God's Lear jet.

INT. HOLD - APC                                          52

Gorman plays with the controls, zooming the image of

the colony.

On the screen the colony buildings loom in and the low

visibility like wrecks of freighters on the sea floor.

Ripley turns as Vasquez squeezes past her.

EXT. COLONY COMPLEX                                      53

Landing beacons sweep harsh light across the wet Tarmac.

The ship roars down, extending the loading ramp.  Slams

down on hydraulic LANDING LEGS.  The APC hits the ground

a moment later, pulling away from the ship as it leaps

up in a cloud of spray and peels off, circling.

The APC pulls to the edge of the complex.  The CREW DOOR

opens.  Troopers hit the ground running.  Spread out.

They drop behind immediate cover.  Apone scans with

him image intensifier visor lowered.

APONE'S P.O.V.  through the starlight-scope visor.

Bright as a sunny day, though contrasty and lurid, we

SEE the colony buildings.  Trash blows in the street.

No other movement.

Sprinting in a skirmish line, Apone's team advances on

the colony main entry-lock.  Parked tightly across the

doors are two heavy-duty tractors.  Vasquez reaches one

of the tractors, looks inside.  The controls are ripped

out, as if by a crowbar or axe.  She moves on.

EXT. COLONY BUILDING                                     54

Vasquez reaches the main doors, Drake flanking on the

right.  Apone tries the door controls.  Nothing.

Hudson, all business now, moves up and studies the

door control panel.  He pries off the facing and starts

clipping on the bypass wires.

The wind roars around the bleak structures.  A neon sign

creaks overhead.  Hudson makes a connection.  The door

shrieks in its tracks and rumbles aside.  It jams

partway open.  Apone motions Vasquez inside.  She

eases over the wrecked tractor, through the doors.

The others follow.

INT. COLONY - MAIN CONCOURSE                             55

DOLLYING SLOWLY FORWARD, following Vasquez and Apone as

they move into the broad corridor.  A few emergency

lights are still on.  Wind moans along the concourse.

Pools of water cover the floor.  Farther down, rain drips

through blast holes in the ceiling.  Evidence of a

fire fight with pulse-rifles.

ON VASQUEZ  moving forward.  Taut.  Alert.  Her smart-gun

cannon swinging slowly in an arc.  She studies the

video aiming monitor, looking down rather than ahead.

Their footsteps echo.

INT. APC                                                 56

Ripley watches as the bobbing images reveal the empty

colony building.

INT. MAIN CONCOURSE - SECOND LEVEL                       57

Hicks leads his squad up the stairwell to second level.

They emerge cautiously.  An empty corridor recedes into

the dim distance.  Hicks unslings a rugged piece of

equipment.  Aims it down the hall.  He adjusts the

"gain."  It remains silent.

They pass rooms and offices.  Through doors they see

increasing signs of struggle.  Furniture overturned.

Papers scattered...floating sodden in the puddles.

INT. APC                                                 58

Ripley et al watching.

Nobody laughs.

INT. SECOND LEVEL                                        59

Hicks' group passes several burnt-out rooms.  There are

no bodies.  In several offices the exterior windows are

blown out, admitting wind and rain.  Hicks picks up a

half-eaten donut beside a coffee cup overflowing with

rainwater.

INT. LOWER LEVEL - QUARTERS                              60

Apone's men are searching systematically in pairs.  They

pass through the colonists' modest apartments, little

more than cubicles.  Hudson, on tracker, flanks Vasquez

as they move forward.  Hudson touches a splash of color

on the wall.  Dried blood.  His tracker BEEPS.

Vasquez whirls, cannon aimed.  The BEEPING grows more

frequent as Hudson advances toward a half open door.  The

door is splintered partway out of its frame.  Holes

caused by pulse-rifle rounds pepper the walls.  Vasquez

eases up to the door.  Kicks it in.  Tenses to fire.

Inside, dangling from a piece of flex conduit, a

junction-box swings like a pendulum in the wind from a

broken window.  It clanks against the rails of a child's

bunkbed as it swings.

INT. DROP-SHIP - APC                                     61

Ripley watches Hicks' monitor.

TIGHT ON MONITOR  as the image shifts, revealing a

section of wall corroded almost through in an irregular

pattern.

TIGHT ON RIPLEY  knowing what it is.

Burke raises an eyebrow at Ripley.

INT. FIRST LEVEL                                         62

Hudson is looking at something.

WIDER ANGLE  showing the trooper standing beneath a

gaping hole.  Another hole, directly beneath, is at his

feet.  The acid has melted right down through two levels

into the maintenance level.  Revealing pipes, conduit,

equipment...eaten away by the ferocious substance.

INT. APC                                                 63

Gorman turns to the others.

INT. FIRST LEVEL                                         64

EXT. COLONY COMPLEX                                      65

Lights arc across the dormant buildings as the APC turns

onto the "main drag."  It trundles down the rutted

street, throwing up sheets of filthy water as the

massive wheels hit pondlike potholes.  Windblown rain

lashes across the headlights.

Hicks emerges from the south lock just as the APC rolls

up close to the entrance.  The crew-door slides back.

Gorman emerges, followed by Burke, Bishop, and

Wierzbowski.  Burke looks back to see Ripley stop in the

APC doorway, eyeing the ominous colony structure.  She

meets his eyes.  Shakes her head "no."  Not ready.

INT. APC                                                 66

The crew-door cycles home with a clang.  Ripley sits in

the dark interior, lit by the tactical displays.  The

wind howls outside, an incredibly desolate sound.  She

hugs herself.  Alone.  Unarmed.  She knows she's in a

tank, but remembers the acid.  Leaps up.  Hits the door

switch.

EXT. APC - SOUTH LOCK                                    67

The crew-door opens and Ripley emerges.  In time to see

the lock doors rumbling closed.

The wind snatches her words away.  The crew door whines

shut behind her.  She walks to the exterior lock

door-controls and studies them.  She punches some

unfamiliar buttons.  Nothing happens.  She looks really

nervous, alone in the howling wind.  She hits another

button.  The door-motors come to life and she relaxes

a little.  Glances behind her.  AND SCREAMS!  There's

a face right there!  Right at her shoulder.  She jumps

back, gasping for breath.

He gestures for her to precede him inside.

INT. CONTROL BLOCK CORRIDOR                              68

Ripley catches up with the others as they move into the

bowels of the complex.

ON RIPLEY  as they move along the corridor...reacting to

the fact that she is back in alien country.  She sees

the ravaged administration complex.  Fire-gutted offices.

Hicks notices her looking around nervously.  He motions

to big Wierzbowski with his eyes and the trooper casually

falls in beside her on the other side, rifle at ready.

a two-man protective cordon.  She glances at Hicks.  He

winks, but so fast maybe it's something in his eye.

Trooper Frost emerges from a side corridor ahead.

He leads the way into the corridor.

INT. CORRIDOR                                            69

This wing is completely without power.  The troopers

switch on their pack lights and the beams illuminate

a scene of devastation worse than they have seen.  Her

expression reveals that Ripley is about to turn and flee.

They approach a barricade blocking the corridor, a

hastily welded wall of pipes, steel-plate, outer-door

panels.  Acid holes have slashed through the floor and

walls in several places.  The metal is scratched and

twisted by hideously powerful forces, peeled back like

a soup can on one side.  They squeeze through the

opening.

INT. MEDICAL WING                                        70

They pack-lights play over the devastation of the

colonists' last ditch battle.  The equipment of the med

labs has been uprooted to add to the barrier.  The walls

are perforated by pulse-rifle fire and acid.  Scorched

by untended fires to bare metal.  A few instruments glow

with emergency power.

TIGHT ON RIPLEY  transfixed by something.

The others turn and approach, seeing what she sees.  She

has entered a second room, part of the med lab area.  In

a storage alcove at near eye level stand seven

transparent cylinders.  STASIS TUBES.  They glow faintly

with an eerie violet light given off by the field which

preserves the specimens inside.

They look like jars containing SEVERED ARTHRITIC HANDS,

the palsied fingers curled in a death-rictus.

Structurally they are more like spiders with sickening

translucent skin, a flacid scrotal body, gill-like

organs underneath drifting in the suspension fluid.

Something you definitely do not want on your face, for

example.

Ripley nods, unable to speak.  Burke leans closer in

fascination.  His face almost touching one cylinder, is

lit by its glow.

The creature inside lunges suddenly, slamming against

the glass.  Burke jumps back.  From the palm of the

thing's handlike body emerges a pearl-escent TUBULE.

like a tapered piece of intestine, which slithers

tonguelike over the inside of the glass.  Then it

retracts into a sheath between the "gills."

Only two of the creatures seem to pulse with life.

Burke taps the other stasis cylinders but the

hand-things remain inertly clenched.

On top of each cylinder is a file folder.  Ripley takes

a folder from above one of the live specimens.  Inside

is a medical chart printout with handwritten entries.

They are startled by a LOUD BEEP.  They turn.  Hicks

is intent on his motion tracker, aimed back toward the

shattered barricade.  BEEP.  BEEP.

He gestures at the corridor they just passed through.

Vasquez swings the smart-gun to ready position on

its support arm, locking it with an authoritative

CLICK.  She and Hicks head toward the source of the

signal, the others following.

INT. CORRIDOR                                            71

Hicks' tracker is reading out more rapidly.  They

turn into the kitchens, a stainless steel labyrinth.

Ripley hangs back.  Then realizes there is nothing

behind her but darkness.  She catches up to the group.

INT. KITCHENS                                            72

The troopers enter, their lights bouncing around the

stainless steel surfaces.

Vasquez is scanning, gaze intense.  The other troops

grip their weapons tightly.

Hicks nods toward a complicated array of food

processing equipment.  They move forward, weapons

leveled.

Ripley shuffles forward in the dark.  Wierzbowski

trips over a metal cannister, sending it CLANGING.

Ripley half climbs the wall.

Hicks' tracker beeps steadily.  The beeps merge.

Become a solid tone.  CRASH.  Something moves in the

dark, toppling a rack of stockpots.

ON VASQUEZ  pivoting smoothly to fire.  In the same

instant Hicks' rifle slashes INTO FRAME.  Slams

Vasquez' barrel upward.  A STREAM OF TRACER FIRE rips

into the ceiling, the rounds SEARING LIKE LIGHTNING.

Hicks ignores her, moving past and aiming his light

under a row of steel cabinets.  He gestures to Ripley,

who steps forward.  Trusting his judgment.  She

crouches beside him.

RIPLEY'S P.O.V.  lit by Hicks' pack-light...a tiny

cowering figure.  A very dirty, very terrified

NEWT JORDEN.  She clutches a plastic food packet in

one hand, its top gnawed partway through.  In the other

hand she grips the HEAD OF A LARGE DOLL, holding it by

the hair.  Just the head.  Eyes staring.  Newt is

pathetically emaciated...fragile-looking as Dresden

china, her hair tangled and matted.

Ripley moves toward her, reaching slowly under the

cabinet.  Newt backs away, trembling visibly, her

vision fixated like a rabbit blinded by headlights.

Ripley's hand almost reaches her.

The kid bolts like a shot, scuttling along beneath the

cabinetry.  Ripley scrambles to follow...to keep her

in sight.  Crabbing frantically sideways.  Hicks makes

a grab, catching one tiny ankle.  He snaps his hand

out a moment later.

The girl reaches a ventilation duct set in the

baseboard, its grille kicked out.  She scrambles

inside, her tiny body barely fitting, wriggling like

a fish.

In his bulky armor Hicks knows he'll never make it

into the tiny duct.  Ripley dives.  She squirms into

the duct without thinking.  Just ahead she sees Newt

enter a dark space and slam a steel hatch.  Ripley

pushes the hatch open before the child can latch it,

and crawls in after her.

Newt is backed into a cul-de-sac in the tiny steel

chamber.  Ripley shines her light around in amazement.

It is a NEST.  A nest built by a child.  Wadded up

blankets and pillows line the space, mixed up with a

haphazard array of TOYS, STUFFED ANIMALS, DOLLS, CHEAP

JEWELRY, COMIC BOOKS, EMPTY FOOD PACKETS, even a

battery operated TAPE PLAYER.  All foraged from the

wrecked colony.  Ripley marvels at the child's

incredible adaptability, the ability to functions even

in this nightmarish environment.

Newt edges along the far wall and dives for the hatch.

Ripley grabs her, controlling her in a bear hug.  The

kid struggles wildly, like a cat at the vets.  Eyes

wide, hands lashing out in a frenzy...but silent.  No

scream.

Newt goes limp, almost catatonic.

CLOSE ON NEWT'S TRAUMATIZED, VACANT STARE  her lips

are white and trembling, her eyes track wildly and

she flinches from unseen terrors.  We READ a dark

nightmare world in her eyes.

Ripley's light falls on something amidst the debris...

a FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH of Newt, dressed up and smiling,

a ribbon in her hair.  In embossed gold letters

underneath it says:

INT. OPERATIONS - ON NEWT - MANAGER'S OFFICE             73

sitting huddles in a chair, arms around her knees.

Looking at a point in space.

WIDER ANGLE  REVEALING Gorman sitting in front of her

while Dietrich watches the readouts from a

BIO-MONITORING CUFF wrapped around Newt's tiny arm.

No response.  Ripley enters, carrying a coffee mug.

Gorman stands with a sigh of dismissal.

She unsnaps the bio-monitoring cuff.

Gorman and the others exit, leaving only Ripley with

Newt.  Through the window of the office, out on the

main floor of the operations room, we SEE Gorman

join Burke and Bishop at a computer terminal.

Ripley kneels beside Newt, brushing the girl's unkempt

hair out of her eyes in a gentle, maternal fashion.

She wraps the child's hands around the cup.  Raises

it to her lips for her.  The girl drinks mechanically,

spilling down her chin.

She sets the cup down and wipes the child's chin clean.

She pours water from a squeeze bottle onto a small

cloth and gently washes the little girl's face.

Newt's eyes seem to focus on her for the first time.

Newt gazes at her.  Ripley smiles.

INT. OPERATIONS                                          74

The ground teams are gathered around a terminal in

the computer center.  Hudson has the CPU main computer

on-line and reading out.

TIGHT ON MONITOR SCREEN  as an abstract of the main

colony ground plan drifts across the screen.

Searching.

Hudson bashes at the keyboard, his fingers dancing

expertly.

INT. OFFICE                                              75

Ripley is washing Newt's tiny hands with a cloth,

pink skin emerging from black grime.

Newt's voice is almost inaudible.

Ripley leans closer.  Feels like she's breathing

on coals.  The sound was incomprehensible.

Ripley grins inanely, not wanting to move or speak...

or break the spell.

Ripley picks up her tiny limp hand, shaking it

formally.

Newt glances at the disembodied doll, still clutched

in one filthy hand.

Newt's reply is flat, neutral.

Ripley gazes at her, chilled both by the ominous

statement and by the situation which could have

produced this outlook in a child.

Newt nods, staring at her knees.

Ripley smiles grimly at the inadvertently macabre

expression.

And because she's a child, the darkest terrors, even

the ones seen and not imagined, can still be banished

by a smile and a single promise.

Newt's eyes brim as she gazes at Ripley.  Her lower

lip starts to tremble, and her face slowly deforms

into an abject mask.  She sobs as she clamps her arms

around Ripley's neck.  The sobs come in waves as

Ripley rocks her, tears of suppresses terror and

grief and hurt rolling down her face.  It is a

breakthrough.

Ripley closes her eyes, hoping that this promise

can be kept.

INT. OPERATIONS                                          76

Everyone jumps as Hudson cries out triumphantly.

TIGHT ON SCREEN  showing an amoebalike cluster of

flashing blue dots clumped tightly in one area.

EXT. ACHERON - TWILIGHT                                  77

The APC roars across the stygian landscape, traversing

the causeway which connects the colony to the

ATMOSPHERE STATION a kilometer away.  Behind it the

drop-ship settles to the ground at the colony landing

field.

PAN WITH THE APC TO REVEAL the massive structure.

Like a vast foundry the conical exhaust tower

flickers with spectral light.

INT. APC                                                 78

The troopers sit, more subdued now, swaying and

bouncing in the heavily sprung vehicle.  Wierzbowski

is in the saddle.  Ripley and Newt sit side by side

just aft of the driver's cockpit.

Ripley's gaze shifts out the windshield as the

processing station looms ahead.

EXT. APC/STATION                                         79

The vast structure towers above the parked personnel

carrier.  Deploying in front of the APC, backlit by

its lights, the troopers cast long shadows.  They

look ominous.  Hulking techno-samurai.

The base of the station is a depthless maze of

conduits and pressure vessels, like an oil refinery.

Or a Dantean version of one.  The THRUM of

functioning machine systems echoes through the

labyrinth.

The troopers start down the open rampway.  Light

filters down through several levels of steel mesh

floor, catwalks and pipes.  Below that is darkness.

The thrumming of machines grows louder as they

descend.

INT. APC                                                 80

Huddles around the screens are Ripley, Burke and

Gorman.  Newt squeezes in from behind.  Gorman is

doing his video wizard bit, dancing on the buttons.

INT. COMPLEX                                             81

The group stands before a bizarre tableau.  Among

the refinerylike lattice of pipes and conduits

something new and not of human design had been

added.

It is a structure of some sort, extending from and

crudely imitating the complex of plumbing, but made

of some strange encrusted substance.  It vaguely

resembles the chambered nests of swallows on a much

larger scale, and it attenuates so gradually into

the original hardware that it is hard to see where

one ends and the other begins.

The alien structure seems to extend far back into

the complex of machinery.  The plant thrums loudly,

its functioning seemingly not impaired.

INT. APC                                                 82

Ripley stares at the scene in dread fascination.

INT. ALIEN STRUCTURE                                     83

They enter the organic labyrinth, playing their

lights over the walls.  Revealing a BIO-MECHANICAL

LATTICE, like the marrow of some vast bone.  The air

is thick with STEAM.  Trickling water.  The place

seems almost alive.

INT. APC                                                 84

They watch in various helmet-camera P.O.V.'s of the

wall detail.

CLOSE ON VIDEO  as it PAN SLOWLY...REVEALING a

bas-relief of detritus from the colony:  furniture,

wiring, human bones, skulls...Fused together with a

translucent, epoxylike substance.

INT. ALIEN STRUCTURE                                     85

Steam swirls around them as the troopers move deeper

inside.

INT. APC                                                 86

Ripley leans forward suddenly, studying the graphic

readout of the STATION GROUND PLAN.

INT. ALIEN STRUCTURE                                     87

The troopers look at each other in dismay.

He walks among the troopers, collecting the magazines

from each one's weapon.

Vasquez turns hers over reluctantly.

The three who are carrying them get out small

incinerator units.  When Apone moves on, Vasquez

slips a spare magazine from concealment and inserts

it in her weapon.  Drake does the same.  Hicks hangs

back in the shadows.  He opens a cylindrical sheath

attached to his battle-harness.  Slides out an

old style PUMP TWELVE-GAUGE with a sawed-off butt

stock.  Chambers a round.

INT. LARGER CHAMBER                                      88

The air is thick.  Lights flare.

Hudson watches his tracker, scanning.

Apone stops, his expression changing.  They face a

wall of living horror.  The colonists have been

brought here and entombed alive...

COCOONS protrude from the niches and interstices

of the structure.  The cocoon material is the same

translucent epoxy.  The bodies are frozen in

carelessly twisted positions.  Macabre image of

frozen agony.  Many are disiccated.  Skeletal.

Rip-cages burst outward, as if exploded from within.

Paralyzed, brought here, entombed in living death

as hosts for the embryos growing within then.

Dietrich moves close to examine one of the figures,

perhaps the most "recent."  A WOMAN, ghost-white

and drained.  The WOMAN'S EYES SNAP OPEN...They

seem to plead.

The woman's lips move feebly.

INT. APC                                                 89

Ripley watches the woman, white knuckled.  The

sound of RETCHING comes over the general frequency.

INT. COCOON CHAMBER                                      90

The woman begins to convulse.  She SCREAMS, a

sawing shriek of mindless agony.

Frost hands it to him.  Suddenly, the woman's chest

EXPLODES in a gout of blood.  A SMALL FANGED HEAD

EMERGES, HISSING VICIOUSLY.

Apone pulls the trigger.  Then the other troopers

carrying flame throwers open fire.  An orgy of

purging fire.  The cocoons vanish in the shimmering

heat.

A SHRILL SCREECHING begins, like a siren made from

fingernails on blackboards.

ANGLE ON WALL  as something begins to emerge.  Dimly

glimpsed, a glistening bio-mechanoid creature larger

then a man.  Lying dormant, it had blended perfectly

with the convoluted surface of fused bone.  The

troopers don't see it.  Smoke from the burning cocoons

quickly fills the confined space.  Visibility drops

to zero.

INT. APC                                                 91

Gorman is plating with the gain controls on the

monitors.

Ripley senses it coming, like a wave at night.  Dark,

terrifying and inevitable.

INT. COCOON CHAMBER - TIGHT ON SEVERAL WALLS AND         92

CEILING NICHES

as they come alive.  Bonelike, tubelike shapes shift,

becoming emerging ALIENS.  Dimly glimpsed...glints

of slime.  Silhouettes.

The squad members snap down their image-intersifier

visors.

Dietrich turns to retreat, her flamethrower held

tightly.  A nightmarish silhouette materializes out

of the smoke behind her!  It strikes like lightning.

SEIZES HER.  She fires reflexively, wild.  The jet

of flame engulfs Frost nearby.

Apone spins as the double SCREAM.  Can't see anything

in the think smoke.

INT. APC                                                 93

Ripley watches Frost's monitor go black.  His

bio-readouts flatten.  The other screens show glimpses

of shimmering infrared silhouettes of the aliens, the

images bobbing and panning confusedly.

INT. COCOON CHAMBER                                      94

Vasquez nods to Drake with grim satisfaction.

They OPEN UP simultaneously, lighting up the smoke

like welders' arcs.

Vasquez rips off her headset.  She is riveted to the

targetting screen, moving ferret-quick in a pivoting

dance.  Thunder and lightning.  Better than sex for

her.  FLASH-CRACK!  An alien SCREECH from the darkness.

INT. APC                                                 95

The battle of phantoms unfolds on the video screens.

Ripley flinches as another scream comes over the

open frequency.  Wierzbowski's monitor breaks up.

His life signs plummet.  Voices blend and overlap.

Gorman is ashen.  Confused.  Gulping for air like a

grouper.  How could the situation have unravelled

so fast?

CRASH!  Crowe's telemetry cuts off like the plug was

pulled.  Flat line.

Ripley watches it fall apart.

INT. COCOON CHAMBER                                      96

Apone adjusts his headset.

Gorman's voice breaks up completely.  A SCREAM.

Apone whirls, uncertain.

Nothing.  He spins.  Almost blows Hudson's head

off.

Apone hands him a magazine.  Hudson slaps it home,

looking truly terrified.

He FIRES.  Vasquez, nearby, is laying down a

horrendous field of fire.  Strobe-bright flashes

sear the darkness.  She pivots, firing mechanically

in controlled bursts.  Scoring points in her own

private video game.

She SPINS as Hicks approached laterally.  WHAM!  She

fires "at" him.  Hicks whirls...to see a nightmarish

figure right behind him, catapulted backwards by

Vasquez' blast.

INT. APC                                                 97

Apone's monitor SPINS CRAZILY AND GOES DARK.

But he's gone.  Total brain-lock.

TIGHT ON RIPLEY  as she struggles with a decision.

She's terrified...of what she knows she's about to

do.  But more than that, she's furious.  Shouldering

past a paralyzed Gorman she runs up the aisle of the

APC.

Ripley jumps into the driver's seat of the APC.  Takes

a deep breath.  Starts slapping switches.

She slams the tractor into gear.

EXT. APC                                                 98

as the drive-wheels spin on the wet ground.  The

massive machine leaps forward.

INT. APC                                                 99

Ripley sees smoke pouring out of the complex ahead

as she slides sideways onto the descending rampway.

She slams the left and right drive-wheel actuators

viciously, spinning the machine in a roaring pivot.

Gorman lunges forward along the aisle, abandoning

his command center.

He claws at her, hysterical.  Burke pulls him off.

INT. ALIEN STRUCTURE                                    100

The APC roars down into the smoky structure, tearing

away outcroppings of alien-encrustation.  Ripley hits

the floodlights.  Strobe-beacon.  Siren.  She homes

on the flash of weapons fire ahead.

INT. COCOON CHAMBER                                     101

The APC crashes inside, showering debris.  Hicks,

supporting a limping Hudson, appears out of the smoke.

The APC pulls up broadside and Burke gets the crew-door

open.

Drake and Vasquez back out of the dense mist, firing as

they fall back.

Drake goes empty, slams the buckles cutting loose his

smart-gun harness, and unslings a flame thrower.

Hicks pushes Hudson inside, leaps in after him and

drags Vasquez inside, massive gear and all.  She sees

a DARK SHAPE lunge toward Drake.  She fires one burst,

prone.  Clean body hit.

The flash lights up the hideous inhuman grin, blowing

open the thing's thorax.  A spray of BRIGHT YELLOW

ACID slashes across Drake's face and chest, eating

into him like a hot knife through butter.  He drops

in boiling smoke, reflexively triggering his flame

thrower.

The jet of liquid fire arcs around as he falls,

engulfing the back half of the APC.

INT. APC                                                102

Vasquez rolls aside as a gout of napalm shoots

through the crew-door, setting the interior on fire.

Hicks is rolling the door closed when Vasquez lunges,

clawing out the opening.  He stops her, dragging her

inside.

Hicks screams right in her face.

Burke and Hudson help him drag her from the door.

Ripley jams reverse.  Nails the throttle.  The APC

bellows backward up the ramp.  Hudson disappears

under a pile of equipment as a storage rack breaks

free.  Hicks gets the door almost closed.  Suddenly

CLAWS appear at the edge.  Newt screams.  Against

the combined efforts of Hicks, Burke and Vasquez

the door is being SLOWLY WRENCHED OPEN FROM OUTSIDE.

Hicks yells at a paralyzed Gorman.

Gorman backs away, eyes wide.  Hicks jams his shoulder

against the latching lever and frees one hand to raise

his 12-gauge.  An alien head wedges through the opening,

its hideous mouth opening.  And Hicks jams his SHOTGUN

MUZZLE between its jaws and pulls the trigger!  BLAM!

The creature is flung backward, its shattered head

fountaining acid blood.  The spray eats into the door,

the deck, hits Hudson on the arm.  He shrieks.  They

slide the door home and dog it tight.

EXT. APC                                                103

The armored vehicle roars backward up the ramp.  Slams

into a mass of conduit.  Tears free.  Ripley works the

shifters, pivoting the massive machine.  Everybody's

shouting, trying to put out the fire.  Pandemonium.

INT./EXT. APC                                           104-

Something lands on the roof with a metallic clang.

Gorman has plastered himself against a wall, as far

from the door as possible.  A latch lever behind his

head turns.  The small hatch against which he was

leaning is ripped away and SOMETHING snatches him out

the opening  He disappears to the waist with a shriek,

legs kicking.  The alien clings to the roof, pulling

him out.  Its tail whips over, scorpionlike, and

buries a four inch stinger in Gorman's shoulder.

Hicks grabs a joy stick at the FIRE-CONTROL CONSOLE

and turns it rapidly.  On the roof the alien looks up

as servo-motors whir.  A remote control turret cannon,

a 20mm chain-gun, swivels toward it in a curt arc.

VOOM.  The creature is blasted off the vehicle's

armored back and tumbles away.  Gorman, slumped

unconscious, is dragged back inside.

The APC rips away a section of catwalk and heads for

clear air, its flank trailing fire like a comet.

Ripley fights the controls as the big machine slews,

broadsiding a control-room out-building.  Office

furniture and splintered wall sections are strewn in

the APC's wake.

Suddenly, an alien arm arcs down, right in front of

Ripley's face.  It smashes the windshield.  Glistening,

hideous jaws lunge inside...

Ripley recoils.  Face to face once again with the same

mind-numbing horror.  She reacts instinctively.  Slams

both sets of brakes with all her strength.  The huge

wheels lock.  The creature flips off, landing in the

headlights.  Ripley hits full throttle.  The APC roars

forward, smashing over the abomination.  Its skeletal

body is crushed under the massive wheels.  It rolls,

tumbling...lost in the darkness behind as the machine

thunders onto the causeway and away from the station.

A sound like bolts dropped in a meat grinder is coming

from the APC's rear end.  Hicks eases Ripley's hand

back on the throttle lever.  Her grip is white knuckled.

The grinding clatter becomes deafening even as she

slows the machine.

EXT. APC                                                106

The tractor limps to a halt.  A HALF-KILOMETER from the

atmosphere processing station.  The APC is a smoking,

acid-scarred mess.

INT. APC                                                107

Ripley, still running on the adrenalin dynamo, spins

out of her seat into the aisle.

Feeling a tug at her pants leg she looks down.  Newt

is wedged into a tiny space between the driver's seat

and a bulkhead.  She is trembling, and looks terrified,

but it's not the basket case catatonia of before.

Newt gives her a THUMBS-UP, wan but stoic.  Ripley goes

back to the others.  Hudson is holding his arm and

staring in stunned dismay at nothing, playing it all

back in his mind.

Burke tries to have a look at Hudson's arm.

Ripley joins Hicks who is bent over Gorman, checking

for a pulse.

She grabs Gorman by the collar, hauling him up roughly,

ready to pulp him with her other fist.

Hicks pushes her back.  Right in her face.

Vasquez releases Gorman.  His head smacks the deck.

Ripley opens Gorman's tunic, revealing a bloodless

purple puncture wound.

They turn to see Hudson at the MTOB monitors, pointing

at the bio-function screens.

Hudson is pale, panicky, and his voice echoes around

the tiny metallic space and comes back to all of them

as the near hysteria they all feel, fluttering just

at the edges of their minds.

Ripley and Vasquez lock eyes.  Ripley doesn't want

it to be "I told you so" but Vasquez reads it that

way.  She turns away with a snap.

INT. MED LAB                                            108

Bishop is hunched over an occular probe doing a

dissection of one of the dead parasites.  Spunkmeyer

enters with some electronics gear on a hand truck

and parks it near Bishop's work table.

Bishop waves "no" without looking up.

EXT. COLONY - DROP-SHIP                                 109

Spunkmeyer emerges, crossing the Tarmac to the loading

ramp of the ship.  As he nears the top of the ramp,

his boot slips...skidding on something wet.  Kneeling,

he touches a small puddle of thick slime.  He shrugs,

and hits the controls to retract the ramp and close

the doors.

INT. APC                                                110

ON VASQUEZ  wired and intense.

Burke senses the challenge in her tone and backpedals

flawlessly into conciliatory mode.

Ripley faces Burke squarely and she's not pleased.

Burke moves in, lowering his voice.  He takes her aside

from the others.

Ripley stares at his like he's a particularly

disagreeable fungus.

Burke starts to lose it and it's not a pretty sight.

He winks.  Burke looks like a kid whose toy has been

snatched.

CLACK!  The sound of a rifle bolt snapping home

truncates his rant.  Vasquez has a pulse-rifle cradled,

not exactly aimed at Burke but not exactly aimed away

either.  Her expression is masklike.  End of discussion.

Ripley sits behind Newt, putting her arm around her.

EXT. DROP-SHIP                                          111

The ship rises through the spray thrown up by the

downblast of the VTOL jets, hovering above the complex

like a huge insect, its searchlights blazing.

EXT. APC                                                112

The group is filing out of the personnel carrier, which

is clearly a write off.  Hicks and Hudson have Gorman

between them, and the others emerge into the wind.

They watch the ship roar in on its final approach.

INT. DROP-SHOP COCKPIT                                  113

Ferro flicks the intercom switch several times.  Thumps

her headset mike.

The compartment door behind her slides slowly back.

Her eyes widen.  It's not Spunkmeyer.

Am impression of leering jaws which blur forward, then

a whirl of motion and a truncated scream.  The throttle

levers are slammed forward in the melee.

EXT. APC - LANDSCAPE - STATION                          114

They watch in dismay as the approaching ship dips and

VEERS WILDLY.  Its main engines ROAR FULL ON and the

craft accelerates toward them even as it loses altitude.

It skims the ground.  Clips a rock formation.  The

ship slews, sideslipping.  It hits a ridge.  Tumbles,

bursting into flame, breaking up.  It arcs into the

air, end over end, a Catherine wheel juggernaut.

She grabs Newt and sprints for cover as a tumbling

section of the ship's massive engine module slams

into the APC and it explodes into twisted wreckage.

The drop-ship skips again, like a stone, engulfed in

flames...AND CRASHES INTO THE STATION.  A TREMENDOUS

FIREBALL.

The remainder of the ground team watches their hopes

of getting off the planet, and most of their superior

fire power, reduced to flaming debris.

There is a moment of stunned silence, then...

She nods.  She can't disguise her stricken expression

when she looks at Newt, but the little girl seems

relatively calm.  She shrugs with fatalistic acceptance.

Ripley follows Newt's look to the AP station looming

in the twilight, the burning drop-ship wreckage jammed

into its basal structure.

EXT. CONTROL BLOCK - NIGHT                              115

The wind howls mournfully around the metal buildings,

dry and cold.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         116

The weary and demoralized group is gathered to take

stock of their grim options.  Vasquez and Hudson are

just setting down a scorched and dented packing case,

one of several culled from the APC wreckage.

Hicks indicates their remaining inventory of weapons,

lying on a table.

He opens one of the scorched cases, revealing a

high-tech servo-actuated machine gun with optical

sensing equipment, packed in foam.

Ripley indicates Newt, who salutes Hudson smartly.

Hudson gathers himself, thankful for the direction.

Hicks nods approval of her handling of it.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         117

Burke, Ripley, Hudson and Hicks are bent over a large

HORIZONTAL VIDEOSCREEN, like an illuminated chart table.

Newt hops from one foot to the other to see.

He traces a finger along the abstract ground plan.

Hicks contemplates her game plan and raises his hand,

satisfied.

INT. SERVICE TUNNEL - SUBLEVEL                          118

A long straight service tunnel, lined with conduit,

seems to go on forever.  Vasquez and Hudson have

finished setting up two of the robot sentry guns on

tripods in the tunnel.

She hurls a wastebasket down the tunnel, into the

automatic field of fire.  The sentry guns swivel

smoothly, the wastebasket bounces once...and is riddled

by two quick bursts of EXPLODING 10MM ROUNDS into

dime-sized shrapnel.  They retreat behind a heavy steel

FIRE DOOR which they roll closed on its track.  Vasquez,

using a PORTABLE WELDING TORCH, begins sealing the door

to its frame, as Hudson paces nervously.

INT. SECOND LEVEL CORRIDOR                              119

Hicks pauses in his work.

He and Ripley are covering an air duct opening with

a metal plate, welding it in place, showering sparks

in the dark corridor.  Behind them Burke and Newt

are moving back and forth with cartons of food on a

hand truck, stacking it inside the operations center.

Hicks sets down his welder and pulls a small object

out of a belt pouch.  A braceletlike EMERGENCY

LOCATING BEEPER.

He indicates a tiny TRACKER hooked to his battle

harness.  He shrugs, a little self-consciously.

Ripley pauses for a moment, regarding him

quizzically.

She consults a printout of the floor plan.

EXT. CONTROL BLOCK                                      120

The wind has died utterly and in the even more eerie

stillness a diffuse mist has rolled into shroud

the complex.  Visibility is low in the fog.

Everything looks underwater.  There is no movement.

INT. CORRIDOR                                           121

In the barricaded corridor sentry-gun "C" sits waiting,

its "ARMED" light flashing green.  Through a hole

torn in the ceiling at the far end of the corridor

the fog swirls in.  Water drips.  An expectant hush.

INT. MED LAB ANNEX - OPERATING ROOM                     122

Ripley carries an exhausted Newt through the inner

connecting rooms of the medical wing.  She reaches

an OPERATING ROOM which is small but very high-tech

...vaultlike metal walls, strange equipment.

Several metal cots have been set up, displacing O.R.

equipment which is pushed into one corner.

Newt is resting her head on Ripley's shoulder, barely

awake...out of steam.  Ripley sets her on one of

the cots and Newt lies down.

This obviously strikes a chord with Ripley, but she

feigns cheerfulness.

Ripley lifts the doll's head from Newt's tiny fingers

and looks inside.  It is, of course, empty.

Ripley closes the doll's eyes and hands her back.

Newt rolls her eyes as if to say "don't pull that

five-year-old shit on me, lady.  I'm six."

Ripley's expression becomes sober.  She brushes damp

hair back from the child's pale forehead.

Newt's voice reveals her deep sense of betrayal.

She's seen that the world can be just as terrifying

as her most primal child's nightmare if not more

so, and that's a lot worse than finding out there is

no Santa.

Ripley begins pulling blankets up an tucking them in

around her tiny body.

It's more statement than question.  Ripley nods slowly.

She turns, reaching for a PORTABLE SPACE HEATER

sitting nearby, and slides it closer to the bed.  She

switches it on.  It HUMS and emits a cozy orange

glow.

Ripley gazes at her a long time before answering...

a conflict between the urge to crush the child to her

in a forever hug and the knowledge that neither of them

may see another dawn.

She switches off the light and starts to rise.  Newt

grabs her arm.  A plaintive voice in the dark.

Newt looks at the VIDEO SECURITY CAMERA above the door.

Ripley unsnaps the TRACKER BRACELET given to her by

Hicks and puts it on Newt's tiny wrist, cinching it

down.

Ripley walks away and Newt rolls on her side, hugging

Casey and gazing at the hypnotically pulsing function

light on the bracelet.  The space heater hums

comfortingly.

INT. MED LAB                                            123

ECU Gorman, his eyelids slitted open like those of a

corpse, but with the eyes tracking erratically.  The

only sign of life.

Ripley stands over the Lieutenant, who is lying

motionless on an examining table.  Bishop looks up

from his instruments nearby, the light of a single

gooseneck lamp giving his features a macabre cast.

Ripley points at the stasis cylinders containing the

face-hugger specimens.

Ripley ponders the ramifications of Bishop's analysis.

Bishop glances at the creatures, pulsing malevolently

in their cylinders.

Ripley feels the fabric of her self-restraint tearing.

She slaps the intercom switch.

INT. MED LAB ANNEX                                      124

In a small observation chamber separated from the med

lab by a glass partition, Ripley and Burke have

squared off.

Ripley's fury is peaking, now that the frustration and

rage finally have a target to focus on.

He shrugs, his manner blase, dismissive.

Ripley snaps.  She slams him against the wall, surprising

herself and him, her hands gripping his collar.

She steps back, shaking, and looks at him with utter

loathing, as if the depths of human greed are a far

more horrific revelation than any alien.

She turns away and strides out.  The door closes.

Burke stares after her, his mind a whirl of options.

INT. CORRIDOR                                           125

Ripley is walking toward operations when a STRIDENT

ALARM begins to sound.  She breaks into a run.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         126

Ripley double-times it to Hicks' TACTICAL CONSOLE

where Hudson and Vasquez have already gathered.  Hicks

slaps a switch, killing the alarm.

The TRILLING of the motion sensor remains, speeding up.

TWO RED LIGHTS on the tactical display light up

simultaneously with an echoing crash of gunfire which

vibrates the floor.

The RSS guns pound away, echoing through the complex.

Their separate bursts overlap in an irregular rhythm.

A counter on the display counts down the number of

rounds fired.

INT. SERVICE TUNNEL - TIGHT ON RSS GUNS                 127

blasting stroboscopically in the tunnels.  Their barrels

are overheating, glowing cherry red.  One CLICKS empty

and sits smoking, still swiveling to track targets it

can't fire upon.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         128

The digital counter on B gun reads zero.

SILENCE.  Then a GONGLIKE BOOMING echoes eerily up from

sublevel.

The BOOMING INCREASES in volume and ferocity.

Mixed with the echoing crash-clang is a nerve-wrecking

SCREECH of claws on steel.  The intercom buzzes,

startling them.

INT. OPERATIONS - MINUTES LATER                         129

Everyone, including Bishop, is crowded at the window,

intently watching the AP station which is a dim

silhouette in the mist.  Suddenly a column of flame,

like an acetylene torch, jets upward from the complex

at the base of the cone.

They watch as another gas jet lights up the fog-shrouded

landscape.

Ripley is wound up like a dynamo, her mind spinning out

options, grim solutions.

They listen.  Nothing.  An instant later comes the

HIGH-PITCHED TRILLING of a motion-sensor alarm.  Hicks

looks at the tactical board.

INT. MED LAB                                            130

One of the acid holes from the colonists' siege has

yielded access to subfloor conduits.  Bishop lying in

the opening, reaches up to graph the portable terminal

as Ripley hands it down to him.  He pushes it into

the constricted shaft ahead of him.  She then hands him

a small satchel containing tools and assorted patch

cables, a service pistol and a small cutting torch.

Ripley looks at her watch.

She squirms into the shaft, pushing the equipment along

ahead of him with a scraping rhythm.  The diameter of

the conduit is barely larger than the width of his

shoulders.  Vasquez slides a metal plate over the hole

and begins spot welding it in place.

INT. CONDUIT                                            131

Bishop looks back as the welder seals him in.  He sighs

fatalistically and squirms forward.  Ahead of him the

conduit dwindles straight to seeming infinity.  Like

being in the bore of a very long Howitzer.

INT. MED LAB                                            132

Ripley jumps as an ALARM suddenly blares through the

complex.

Ripley jumps up, unslinging a FLAMETHROWER from her

shoulder in one motion, and sprints for Operations with

Vasquez.  The sound of SENTRY GUNS opening up in

staccato bursts echoes from close by.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         133

Ripley runs to the tactical console where Hicks is

mesmerized by the images from the surveillance cameras.

The flashes of the sentry guns flare out the sensitive

video, but impressions of figures moving in the smoky

corridor are occasionally visible.  The robot sentries

hammer away, driving streamers of tracer fire into

the swirling mist.

The digital readout whirl through descending numbers.

An inhuman SHRILL SCREECHING is audible between bursts

of fire.

Then the firing from the remaining guns stop abruptly.

The video image is a swirling wall of smoke.  Small fires

burn, dim glows in the mist.  There are black and

twisted shapes, and pieces of twisted shapes, scattered

at the edge of visibility.  However, nothing emerges

from the wall of smoke.  The motion sensor TONE shuts off.

The moment stretches.  Everyone exhales slowly.

The digital counters for the two sentry guns read "0"

and "10" respectively.  Less than a second's worth of

firing.

The two troopers nod and head for the corridor.  Ripley

sighs and picks up a cup of cold coffee, draining it in

one gulp.

Ripley shrugs.  She seems soul weary, drained by the

nerve-wracking tension.  When she answers, her voice

seems distant, detached.

He picks up his pulse-rifle and with the casually precise

movements of long practice he snaps open the bolt, drops

out the magazine and hands it to her.

Ripley hefts the weapon.  It is heavy and awkward.  But

there is an irrational promise of security in its lethal

cold steel lines, to at least the sense that she will

be in some greater measure the master of her own fate.

She raises it clumsily.

INT. CONDUIT                                            134

Bishop is in claustrophobic limbo between two echoing

infinities.  The pipe rings with his scraping advance.

He approaches an irregular hole which admits a tiny

shaft of light.  He puts his eyes up to the acid-etched

opening.

HIS P.O.V.  as drooling jaws flash toward us, SLAMMING

against the steel with a vicious scraping SNAP.

Bishop flattens himself away from the opening and

inches along, looking pale and strained.  He glances at

his watch.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         135

Ripley has the stock of the M-41A snugged up to her cheek

and is awkwardly trying to keep up with Hicks'

instructions.  The Corporal is standing close behind her,

positioning her arms.  It's intimate but that's the

last thing on their minds.

He thumbs a button and the magazine drops out, clattering

on the floor.

CLACK.

Ripley repeats the action, not very smoothly.  Her hands

are trembling.  She indicates a stout TUBE underneath

the slender pulse-rifle barrel.

INT. CORRIDOR                                           136

DOLLYING WITH Ripley walking down the corridor, now

carrying the newfound friend, the M-41A.  Gorman steps

out of the door to the med lab, looking weak but sound.

Burke is right behind him.

She shoulders by him into the med lab.  Gorman turns to

see Vasquez staring at him with cold, slitted eyes.

INT. MED LAB - ANNEX                                    137

Ripley crosses the deserted lab, passing through the

annex to the small O.R. where she left Newt.

INT. MED LAB - O.R.                                     138

Entering the darkened chamber, Ripley looks around.

Newt is nowhere to be seen.  On a hunch she kneels down

and peers under the bed.  Newt is curled up there,

jammed as far back as she can get, fast asleep.  Still

clutching "Casey."

Ripley stares at Newt's tiny face, so angelic despite

the demons that have chased her through her dreams and

the reality between dreams.  Ripley lays the rifle on

top of the cot and crawls carefully underneath.  Without

waking the little girl, she slips her arms around her.

Ripley becomes merely the larger of two children huddling

together in the darkness under their bed.

Newt's face contorts with the externalization of some

tormented dreamscape.  She cries out, a vague inarticulate

plea.  Ripley rocks her gently.

EXT. Up-LINK TOWER - VIEW OF AP STATION                 139

A VIEW OF the processing station from the colony landing

platform.  A rising wind is clearing out the low fog and

the silhouette of the station grows sharper.  Several

systems of high pressure conduits at the base of the

conical tower are actually glowing dull red with heat in

the darkness.  High voltage discharges arc around the

upper latticework, lighting the blighted landscape

with irregular glaring flashes.

PAN ONTO BISHOP, F.G.  hunched against the wind at the

base of the telemetry tower.  He has a TEST-BAY PANEL

open and the portable terminal patched in.  His jacket

is draped over the keyboard and monitor unit to protect

it from the elements and he is typing frenetically.

He punches a key marked "ENABLE."

INT. SULACO CARGO LOCK - IN ORBIT                       140

The drop bay is empty and silent, with the remaining

ship brooding in the shadows.  A KLAXON sounds and

rotating clearance lights come on.  Hydraulics whine

to life.  Drop-ship two moves out on its overhead track

and is lowered into the drop bay fro launch-prep.

Service booms and fueling couplers move in automatically

around the hull.  A recorded announcement echoes across

the huge chamber.

INT. OPERATING ROOM - TIGHT ON RIPLEY - MED LAB         141

as she awakens with a start.  She checks her watch...

an hour has passed.  She gently disengages herself from

Newt and is about to crawl out from beneath the cot

when she sees something and FREEZES.

Across the room, just inside the door to the med lab,

are two innocuous but nonetheless chilling objects.

TWO STASIS CYLINDERS.  Their tops are hinged open, and

the suspension fields are switched off.  They are both

EMPTY.  Ripley feels a slow upwelling wave of terror

rise through her in that silent frozen moment...the

inescapable certainty of a lethal presence.  Unable to

move or breathe, she looks around frantically, assessing

the situation.

Newt nods, now wide awake.  They listen in the darkness

for the slightest betrayal of movement.  The scrabble

of multiple legs across the polished floor, for example.

There is only the droning HUM of the little space heater.

Ripley reaches up and, clutching the springs of the

underside of the cot, begins to inch it away from the

wall.

The SQUEAL OF METAL as the legs scrape across the floor

is jarringly loud in the stillness.

When the space is wide enough she cautiously slides

herself up between the wall and the edge of the cot,

reaching for the rifle she left lying on top of the

mattress.  Here yes clear the edge of the bed.  The rifle

is GONE.

She snaps her head around.  A SCUTTLING SHAPE LEAPS

TOWARD HER from the foot of the bed!  She ducks with

a startled cry.  The obscene thing hits the wall above

her, legs moving lightning fast.  Reflexively she slams

the bed against the wall, pinning the creature inches

above her face.  Its legs and tail writhe with

incredible ferocity and it emits a demented, piercing

SQUEAL.

Ripley heaves Newt across the polished floor and in a

frenzied scramble rolls from beneath the cot.  She

flips it over, trapping the creature underneath.

They back away, gasping.  Ripley's eyes flash around

the shadowed room where every corner of space

between equipment holds lethal promise.  The creature

scuttles from beneath the bed and disappears under a

back of cabinets in a blur.  Ripley hugs Newt close

and heads toward the door, moving as if every object in

the room had a million volts running through it.  She

reaches the door.  Hits the wall switch.  Nothing

happens.  Disabled from outside.  She tries the lights.

Nothing.  She pounds on the door.  The acoustically

dampened door panel thunks dully.  She moves to the

observation window, glancing frantically over her

shoulder.  The bare floor behind her is like a screaming

threat.

She pounds on the window.  Through the double

thickness window we can SEE that the lab is dark and

empty.  Ripley whirls, hearing a loathsome scrabbling

behind her.  Newt starts to whimper, feeding off her

fear.  She steps in front of the video surveillance

camera and waves her arms in a circle.

INT. OPERATIONS - TIGHT ON VIDEO MONITOR                142

showing Ripley waving her arms.  There is no sound,

a surreal pantomime.

A hand ENTERS FRAME and switches off the monitor.

Ripley's image vanishes.

WIDER ANGLE  as Burke straightens casually from

the console.  Hicks is talking via headset with

Bishop and hasn't noticed Ripley's plight or

Burke's action.

INT. OPERATING ROOM                                     143

Ripley picks up a steel chair and slams it against

the observation window.  It bounces back from the

high-impact material.  She tries again.

REVERSE ANGLE  from the med lab side, showing her

futile efforts, the chair hitting with a dull THWACK

barely audible through the double thickness pressure

port.

Ripley turns, studying the room.  She fumbles through

a clutter of equipment on a counter next to her and

finds a SMALL EXAMINATION LIGHT.  Snapping it on she

plays the beam over the walls.  Tall assemblies of

surgical and anaethesiology equipment loom in the

dark.  She hears, ot thinks she hears, movements.  The

light spins across the room, swiveling and bobbing

frantically.  Like an indicator of her growing panic.

Newt starts a thin, high wailing.

Ripley steadies herself, realizing Newt's terror and

the child's dependence on her.  She plays the beam

across the ceiling.  Holds on something.  Gets an idea.

She removes her lighter from a jacket pocket and picks

up some papers from the counter.  Moving cautiously

she boosts Newt up onto the SURGICAL TABLE in the center

of the room and clambers up after her.

Ripley lights the papers and holds the flaming mass

under the temperature sensor of a fire control system

SPRINKLER HEAD.  It triggers, spraying the room from

several sources with water.  An ALARM sounds throughout

the complex.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         144

Hicks jumps at the sound of the alarm, finally

identifying its source among the lights flashing on

his board.  He bolts for the door, yelling into his

headset as he moves.

INT. OPERATING ROOM                                     145

Ripley and Newt are drenched as the sprinklers

continue to drizzle in the darkness.  The SIREN

hoots maniacally, masking all other sound.  Ripley

scans the room with her light, her hair plastered

to her face, wiping water out of her eyes.  She is

eye level with a complex surgical MULTILIGHT.  She

looks into its tangle of arms and cables, inches away.

Looks away.  Her eyes snap back.  SOMETHING LEAPS AT

HER FACE.  She SCREAMS and topples off the table,

splashing to the floor.  Newt shrieks and scrambles

away as Ripley hurls the CHITTERING creature off of

her.  It slams against a wall of cabinets, clings

for a moment, then leaps back as if driven by a

steel spring.  Ripley scrambles desperately, pulling

equipment over on top of herself, clawing across the

floor in a frenzy of motion.  In a blurr of

multijointed legs the creature scuttles up her body.

She tears at it, but it is incredibly powerful for

its size.  It moves like lightning toward her head,

avoiding her fumbling hands.  Newt screams abjectly,

backing away, until she is pressed up against a

desk in one corner.

Ripley has both hands up, forcing the pulsing body

back from her face.  The thing's tail whips around

her throat and begins to tighten, forcing the underside

of its body close to her.  Ripley thrashes about,

knocking over equipment, sending instruments CLATTERING.

Water streams over her, into her eyes, blinding her

and making it impossible to get a grip on the creature's

body.

ANGLE ON NEWT  as crablike legs appear from behind the

desk, right behind her.  She sees it and, thinking

fast, jams the desk against the wall, pinning the

writhing thing.  The desk jumps and shudders against

all the pressure her tiny body can bring to bear on it.

She wails between gritted teeth as the second creature

gets one leg free, then another and another.  Squeezing

itself inexorably onto the desk top...toward her.

The legs of the chittering thing claw at Ripley's

head, getting a surer grip even as she whips her head

from side to side.  The obscene TUBULE extrudes wetly

from the sheath on the creature's underside, forcing

itself between the arms she has crossed tightly over

her face.

A figure appears at the observation window, a silhouette

behind the misted-over glass.  A hand wipes a clear spot.

Hick's eyes appear.  He steps back.  WHAM!  A burst of

pulse-rifle fire shatters the tempered glass.  Hicks

dives into the crazed spider web pattern and explodes

into the room in a shower of fragments.  He hits

rolling, his armor grinding through the shards, and

slides across to Ripley.  He gets his fingers around the

thrashing legs of the vicious beast and pulls.  Between

the two of them they force is away from her face,

though Ripley is losing strength as the tail tightens

sickeningly around her throat.  Hudson leaps into the

room, flings Newt away from the desk to go skidding

across the wet floor, and blasts the second creature

against the wall.  Point-blank.  Acid and smoke.

Gorman appears at Ripley's side and grabs the tail,

unwinding its writhing length like a boa constrictor

coil from her throat.  All of them grip the struggling,

SHRIEKING creature.

Hicks hurls the thing into the corner.  It scrabbles

upright in an instant and leaps back toward them.

WHAM!  Hudson gets it clean.

Ripley collapses, gagging.  The alarm and sprinklers

shut off automatically.  Hicks sees the stasis

cylinders.

INT. OPERATIONS - ANGLE ON HUDSON                       146

looking decidedly stressed-out.  He grips his rifle

tightly, AIMED RIGHT AT CAMERA.

THE GROUP is gathered around Burke who sits in a

chair, maintaining an icy calm although beads of

sweat betray intense concealed tension.  Only a few

minutes have passes and everyone is still buzzed on

adrenaline, as if the whole group is charged with

high voltage.

Ripley stands in front of Burke, every fiber of

her being accusing him with absolute outrage.  Burke

tries to break Ripley's stare, which is like a

diamond drill.  He can't.

Ripley glances at the little girl, a frail figure

sitting nearby, hugging her knees and watching the

proceedings with somber eyes.  She is all but lost in

an adult jacket someone has found for her, and her still

damp hair is plastered to her forehead and cheeks.

Ripley shakes her head, the rage giving way to a

sickened emptiness.

THE LIGHTS GO OUT.  Everyone stops in the sudden darkness,

realizing instinctively it is a new escalation in the

struggle.  Hicks looks at the board.  Everything is out.

Doors.  Video screens.

Ripley picks up her rifle and thumbs off the safety.

Hudson and Vasquez pick up their scanners and move to

the door.  Vasquez has to slide it open manually on its

track.

INT. CORRIDOR                                           147

The two troopers separate and move rapidly to the

barriers at opposite ends of the control block.

DOLLYING WITH VASQUEZ as she moves forward with feral

steps in the darkness.

ON HUDSON  scanning the med lab and the nearby barrier.

BEEP.  Hudson's tracker lights up, a faint signal.

He pans it around.  Back down the corridor.  It beep

again, louder.

ANGLE ON VASQUEZ  swinging her tracker and rifle together.

She aims it behind her.  BEEP.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         148

Ripley and Hicks share a look..."here we go."

INT. CORRIDOR                                           149

Hudson backtracks nervously, peering all around.  He

looks stretched to the limit.

Hudson reaches the door to operations at a run, a

moment before Vasquez.  They pull the door shut and

lock it.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         150

Hudson joins Ripley and Hicks, who are laying out their

armament.  Flamethrowers.  Grenades.  M-41A magazines.

Hudson's tracker beeps.  Then again.  The tone continues

through the SCENE, its rhythm increasing.

He pans the scanner.  Stops.  The range display reads

out, counting down.

Vasquez picks up a hand-welder and moves to comply.

He hands one flamethrower to RIpley and begins priming

the other himself.  It lights with a muffled POP.

Ripley's lights a moment later.  Sparks shower around

Vasquez as she begins welding the door.  Hudson's tracker

is beeping like mad now, as fast as their hearts.

She picks up Vasquez' scanner and aims it the same

direction as Hudson's.

Vasquez is heedlessly showering herself with molten metal

as she welds the door shut.  Working like a demon.

Ripley fiddles with her tracker, adjusting the tuning.

He looks at Ripley.  It dawns on both of them at the same

time.  She feels a cold premonitory dread as she angles

her tracker upward to the ceiling, almost overhead.  The

tone gets louder.

Hicks climbs onto a file cabinet and raises a panel of

acoustic drop-ceiling.  He shines his light inside.

HICKS' P.O.V.                                           151

A soul-wrenching nightmare image.  Moving in the beam of

light are aliens.  Lots of aliens.  They are crawling

like bats, upside down, clinging to the pipes and beams

of the structural ceiling, not touching the flimsy

acoustic panels.  They glisten hideously as they claw

their way forward in silence.  They cover the ceiling

of the operations room.  The inner sanctum is utterly

violated.

ON HICKS                                                152

blasted by fear.

Something moves...he snaps the light around.  It's a

meter behind him.  IT LUNGES!  He drops reflexively,

the claws raking across his armor.

Hicks falls into the room just as the creatures detach

en masse from the handholds.  THE CEILING EXPLODES,

raining debris.  Nightmare shapes drop into the room.

Newt screams.  Hudson opens fire.  Vasquez grabs Hicks,

pulls him up, firing one handed with her flamethrower.

Ripley scoops up Newt and staggers back.  Gorman turns

to fire and Burke bolts for the only remaining exit,

the corridor connecting to the med lab.  In the

strobelike glare of the pulse-rifles we SEE flashes

of aliens, moving forward in the smoke from the

flamethrower fires.  They move like nothing human...

leaping quick as insects at times or gliding with

powerful, balletic grace.

She dashes for the corridor.

INT. MED LAB CORRIDOR                                   153

DOLLYING BEHIND HER as she sprints, the walls becoming

a frenzied blur.  Ahead of her Burke clears the door to

the med lab.  HE SLIDES IT CLOSED.  Ripley slams into

the door.  Tries the latch.  Hears it LOCK from the far

side.

Behind her an alien is moving down the corridor like a

locomotive, a graceful skeleton shape as lethal and

inhuman as you can imagine.  Strobe flashes backlight

the demented silhouette.  Shaking, Ripley raises her

rifle.  She squeezes the trigger.  NOTHING HAPPENS.

The creature HISSES, baring its teeth as it advances.

Ripley checks the SAFETY.  The safety is off.  The

DIGITAL COUNTER.  The magazine is full.  Newt begins to

wail.  Ripley's hands, slick with sweat, are trembling

so much she almost drops the rifle.  Panic screams in

her brain.  The thing is almost on her, filling the

corridor, when she remembers.  She snaps the bolt back,

chambering a round.  Whips the stock to her shoulder.

FIRES.  FLASH-CRACK!  A FLASHBULB GLIMPSE OF shrieking

jaws as the silhouette is hurled back, screeching

insanely.

Ripley is slammed against the door by the recoil,

blinded by the flash and deafened by the concussion.

INT. OPERATIONS                                         154

Hicks looks up.  Fires POINT-BLANK at a leaping

silhouette.  SCREEEECH!  The fire-control system has

tripped, with sprinklers spraying the room and a

mindless SIREN wailing.  Total pandemonium.

Hudson screams as floor panels lift under him, and clawed

arms seize him lightning fast, dragging him down.

Another skeletal shape leaps on him from above.  He

disappears into the subfloor crawlway.  Hicks, Vasquez

and Gorman make it to the med lab access corridor.

INT. CORRIDOR

Stunned, Ripley sees through dissipating smoke the

creature rising to advance again.  Flinching against

blast and glare she drills it POINT-BLANK with a

BLINDING BURST that carries the M-41A's muzzle right

up toward the ceiling.  Newt covers her ears against

the CONCUSSION.

The troopers seem to materialize out of the smoke.

Hicks snaps the torch off his belt and cuts into the

lock.  Inhuman shapes enter the far end of the corridor.

Vasquez hands her flamethrower to Gorman and unslings

her rifle.  She starts loading 30mm grenades into the

launcher, like oversize 12-guage shells.

She pumps a round up and fires.  The grenade EXPLODES and

the blast almost knocks them down.  Hicks kicks the door

open, molten droplets flying.

INT. MED LAB ANNEX                                      156

Vasquez slides the door almost closed, then fires three

grenades rapid-fire through the gap.  She slams the door

home as the grenades detonate, the explosion sounding

gonglike through the metal.

Ripley sprints across the room, trying the far door.

Burke has locked it as well.  Hicks switches his

hand-torch from CUT to WELD and starts sealing the door

they just passed through.

INT. MED LAB                                            157

Burke, hyperventilating with terror, backs across the

dark chamber.  Gasping, almost paralyzed with fear, he

crosses the chamber to the door leading to the main

concourse.  His fingers reach for the latch.  It moves

by itself.  The door opens slowly.

ON BURKE  his eyes wide, transfixed by his fate.  We

hear the BULLWHIP CRACK of a tail-stinger striking as we:

INT. MED LAB ANNEX                                      158

The door dimples with a clanging impact, separating

slightly from its frame.  Another crash, the squeal of

tortured steel.  Newt grabs Ripley by the hand and

tugs her across the room.

She leads Ripley to an air vent set low in the wall and

expertly unlatches the grille, swinging it open.  Newt

starts inside but Ripley pulls her back.

Ripley trades her rifle for Gorman's flamethrower before

he can protest and enters the air shaft, which is a

tight fit.  Newt scrambles in behind, followed by Hicks,

Gorman and Vasquez on rearguard.  Glancing back

fearfully Newt pushes on Ripley's butt as they crawl

rapidly through the shaft.

Ripley turns into a larger MAIN DUCT where there is

enough room to crab-walk in a low crouch.  She runs,

scraping her back on the ceiling.  The troopers' armor

clatters in the confined space.  They approach an

intersection.  She fires the flamethrower around the

corner, the looks.  Clear.

They sprint into the narrow connecting duct, the maze

becoming a blur.  Ripley fires the flamethrower

periodically, as they pass side ducts covered by

louvered grilles or vertical shafts going to higher or

lower levels.

There is a long pause then Bishop's VOICE, almost

unintelligible with interference, comes over the radio.

EXT. UP-LINK RELAY - LANDING FIELD                      159

Bishop is huddled against the base of the telemetry

mast, out of the wind which is now gusting viciously.

Bishop's fingers are blurring over the terminal keys and

he squints, watching the screen as the flight telemetry

updates rapidly.

In the b.g. the AP station has become a raging demon,

wreathed in boiling steam and electrical discharges.

INT. AIR DUCT                                           160

The beam of Ripley's light wavers hypnotically in the

tunnel ahead.  She blinks, seeing something...not sure.

A GLINTING OBSCENE FORM MOVING TOWARD THEM, filling the

tunnel at the absolute limit of the light's power.

They try to crawl back, jamming together.  Behind them,

the way they have come, a GRATING is battered in with a

FEROCIOUS CLANG and the deadly silhouette of a warrior

flows into the duct.  They are trapped.  Vasquez uses

her flamethrower, bathing the tunnel in fire.  Hicks

snaps out his hand-welder and cuts into the wall of the

duct.  Molten metal spatters him, as sparks fill the

tunnel with lurid light.  Vasquez' flamethrower sputters.

Between eye-searing bursts of flame Ripley sees the

glistening apparitions closing in.  Hicks' torch feathers

out.  Empty.  Bracing his back he kicks hard at the

cherry-hot metal.  It bends aside.

Beyond is a narrow SERVICE WAY, lined with pipes and

conduit.  Hicks slides through the searing hole,

lifting Newt safely through as Ripley hands her out.

Ripley follows and turns to help Gorman.  Vasquez'

flamethrower goes dry.  She draws her SERVICE PISTOL.

Suddenly she looks up as a WARRIOR SCREECHES DOWN FROM

A VERTICAL SHAFT, right above her.

She fires with incredible rapidity...BAM!  BAM!  BAM!

Rolls aside.  It lands on her legs and she snaps her head

to one side just as its TAIL STINGER buries into the

metal wall beside her cheek.  She fires again, emptying

the pistol, kicking the thrashing shape away.

Acid cuts through her chickenplate armor, searing into

her thigh.  She cries out, gritting her teeth against

the white-hot pain.  Gorman sees Vasquez hit, unable to

move.  Sees the creatures coming the other way...and

turns away from the escape hole.  He crawls back to her,

grabs her battle harness and starts dragging her towards

safety.  Too late.  The approaching alien warriors have

reached and passed the opening.  Vasquez sees him,

barely conscious.

She seizes his hand in a deadly drip, but we RECOGNIZE

it as the "power greeting" she shared with Drake...

something for the chosen few.  Gorman returns the grip.

He hands her two grenades and arms two himself as the

creatures are upon them.

INT. SERVICE WAY                                        161

RUSHING WITH Ripley, Newt and Hicks as a full tilt run.

The service way lights up with a POWERFUL BLAST behind

them and they stumble with the shock wave.  Newt breaks

out ahead and it's all Ripley and Hicks can do to keep

up.

The kid moves like lightning, diving and dodging around

obstacles.  If it wasn't clear before it's clear now

that we are on her turf, and she's the ace.  Running on

and on, their breathing loud and echoing...the walls

a directionless blur.  Newt never hesitates.

They reach a junction with a narrow ANGLED CHUTE which

runs upward at a steep 45 degrees.

INT. CHUTE                                              162

Ripley looks up the angles shaft, seeing light at the

top...an exterior vent hood.  The sound of wind booms

down from above.  Like blowing across a bottle top

vastly amplified.

Ripley enters, bracing her feet on perilously narrow

side ribs in the shaft.  She looks down.  The chute

descends far into the depths, lost in shadow.  She

starts to climb with Next behind/below her, and Hicks,

just emerging from the side duct.

Newt slips, a rusted rib collapsing under her foot.  She

slides...catches herself with one hand.  Ripley reaches

for her, dropping her light.  The hand-light goes

skittering and bumping down the chute, around a bend,

and disappears.

Ripley strains, reaching, her hand groping for Newt's.

They miss, inches apart.

She slips.  Hicks lunges, grabbing her oversized jacket.

AND SHE SLIPS OUT OF IT.  With an echoing scream Newt

plummets, sliding down the chute into darkness.

MOVING WITH HER, the walls racing by in a dizzy blur like

a bobsled ride.  THe shaft pitches left.  Newt bounces,

sliding halfway up the wall.  The chute forks ahead.

Newt tumbles into the right shaft, which drops at a

steeper angle into the depths.  Just disappearing down

the LEFT SHAFT we SEE Ripley's light.

Ripley looks Hicks in the eye.  And kicks free...sliding

down the chute after Newt.  Ripley slams her feet into

the side-ribs, bracing herself in a controlled descent.

Ripley reaches the "V."  Sees the glow of the light in

the left fork.  She goes left.

She hears a plaintive reply, so echoey and distorted it

has no direction.

Ripley reaches the bottom of the chute where it

intersects with a HORIZONTAL SERVICE TUNNEL.  The light

is lying there, but no Newt.  The echoing wail comes

again.

Ripley starts down the tunnel, answering.  Newt's call

comes again.  Fainter?  She can't tell.  She spins in

a growing panic, starts the other way.

INT. SUBBASEMENT                                        163

Newt is in a low grottolike chamber, filled with pipes

and machines.  It is flooded, almost up to Newt's waist.

She looks up, seeing light streaming through a grating.

Ripley's voice seems to come from there.

Newt climbs some pipes, straining to reach the grating.

INT. SERVICE TUNNEL                                     164

Hicks joins Ripley, unsnapping the emergency-locator

from his belt.  They follow the signal into a lighted

area where the power apparently was not cut.

Following the signal they come to a grating set in the

floor.

Ripley runs to the grating.  Looking down she sees Newt's

tearstreaked face.  Newt reaches up.  Her tiny fingers

wriggle up through the bars of the grate.  Ripley

squeezes the child's precious fingertips.

Newt backs away, climbing down the pipe as Hicks cuts

into the bars with his hand-torch.

INT. SUBBASEMENT                                        165

Newt, standing waist deep in the water, watches sparks

shower blindingly as Hicks cuts.  She bites her lip,

trembling.  Cold and terrified.  Silently a glistening

shape rises in one graceful motion from the water behind

her.  It stands, dripping, dwarfing her tiny form.  Newt

turns, sensing the movement...She SCREAMS as the

shadow engulfs her.

INT. SERVICE TUNNEL                                     166

Ripley panics, hearing screaming below, then splashing.

She and Hicks kick desperately at the grating, smashing

it down.  Heedless of the cherry-hot edges Ripley

lunges into the hole with her light.

The surface of the water reflects the beam placidly.

Newt is gone.  Bobbing in the water, eyes staring, is

"Casey" the doll head.  In sinks slowly, distorting,

vanishing in darkness.

Hicks pulls Ripley away from the hole.  She struggles

furiously, trying to tear out of his grip.

He drags her back.  It takes all of his strength.

He sees something moving toward them through a lattice

of pipes.  Ripley is irrational.  Hysterical.

He drags her toward an ELEVATOR not far away at the

end of the tunnel.  Gets her inside, slamming her against

the back wall.  Hits the button to go to surface level.

An alien warrior leaps into the tunnel, starts

toward them.  The doors are closing.  Not fast enough.

The creature gets one arm through, the doors closing on

it.  THEY OPEN AGAIN, an automatic safety feature.  THE

WARRIOR HISSES, LUNGING.  Hicks FIRES, POINT-BLANK.  It

spins away, SCREECHING.  Acid sluices between the closing

doors, across Hicks' armored chest plate, as he shields

Ripley with his body.  The lift starts upward.  Hicks'

fingers race with the clasps as the stuff eats its way

toward his skin.  Galvanized out of her hysteria, Ripley

claws at his armor, helping him as much as she can.  He

screams as the acid contacts his chest and arm.  He

shucks out of the combat armor like a madman, dropping

the smoking pieces to the floor.  Acrid fumes fill the

air, searing eyes and lungs.  The elevator stops.  The

doors part and they stumble out, Ripley supporting Hicks

who is doubled over in agony.

EXT. LANDING FIELD                                      167

Drop-ship two descends toward the landing grid,

side-slipping in hurricane gusts.  Bishop stands, guiding

it with the portable terminal.  The ship sets down hard.

Slides sideways.  Stops.  Bishop turns as Ripley and

Hicks stumble out of a doorway in the colony building

behind him.  He goes to them, helping to support Hicks

and they run toward the ship, buffeted by the gale.

Ripley shouts, her words barely audible over the wind.

The loading ramp deploys and they run into the ship.

EXT. PROCESSING STATION                                 168

An infernal engine, roaring out of control.  Steam blasts

and swirls, lightning zaps around the superstructure and

columns of incandescent gas thunder hundreds of feet into

the air.

We APPROACH, hypnotically.  The drop-ship ENTERS FRAME,

moving toward the station.  It pivots, hovering in the

blasting turbulence, and settles onto a NARROW LANDING

PLATFORM ten levels above the ground, or about a third

of the way up the enormous structure.

INT. DROP-SHIP                                          169

Ripley finishes winding tape around a bulky object and

drops the roll.  She has crudely fastened a M-41A

assault rifle together, side by side, with a flamethrower.

A massive, unwieldy package of absolute firepower.  Her

movements are curt, precise...determined.  She works

rapidly, snatching magazines, grenades, belts and other

gear from the fully stocked ordnance racks of the

drop-ship.

Bishop comes aft from the pilot's compartment to help

Hicks dress his injuries.  Hicks is sprawled in a flight

seat, the contents of a FIELD MEDICAL KEY strewn around

him.  He's out of the game...contorted with pain.

Ripley is stuffing gear rapidly into a satchel, her hands

flying.

She hefts the hybrid weapon, grabs the satchel and spins

to the door controls.  The door opens.  Wind and

machine-thunder blast in.

Hicks is holding a wad of gauze plastered over his face.

Ripley grabs his hand.  They share a moment, albeit

brief.  Mutual respect in the valley of death.

Ripley runs down the ramp, crossing the platform to the

open doors of a LARGE FREIGHT ELEVATOR.  The doors close.

INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR                                   170

The elevator descends.  Bars of light move rhythmically

across her as Ripley stands facing the doors, watching

the landings go by.  The heat grows more intense.  Pipes

glowing cherry-red pass by.  Steam hisses and billows.

The lift clatters in a steady beat.  Hypnotic.

Ripley removes her jacket and dons a battle harness

directly over her T-shirt.  Her hair is matted, and

she glistens with sweat.  Her eyes burn with a

determination that holds the gut-panic in check.

The elevator descends.  She checks her weapon.  Attaches

a BANDOLIER OF GRENADES to her harness.  Primes the

flamethrower.  Checks the rifle's magazine.  Racks the

bolt, chambering the first round.  She checks the

MARKING FLARES jammed in the thigh pockets of her

jump pants.  She drops an unprimed grenade, trembling,

forcing herself to be strong.  We SEE she doesn't

know doodley about grenades.

This is the most terrifying thing she has ever done.  She

begins to hyperventilate, soaking with sweat.  Her fingers

slick and slippery on the rifle.  The elevator descends.

The lift motors whine, slowing.  It hits bottom with a

bump.  The safety cage retracts.  Slowly, expectantly,

the doors open.

HER P.O.V.  THROUGH the parting doors...an empty

corridor.  Dark, swirling with steam, a ruddy glow

VISIBLE here and there.  It seems to have been a descent

into Dantean Hell.  The air itself vibrates with heat

distortion.  Couplings groan.  Machinery whines and

throbs.  Like the beating of a vast heart the pounding

of massive pumps echoes through the station.

INT. CORRIDOR                                           171

Ripley moves out of the lift, knuckles white on the

rifle.  Her eyes dart, straining to penetrate the lethal

gloom.  Behind her we SEE a SECOND ELEVATOR next to

hers, its lift cage somewhere on a higher floor.  Ahead

the corridor is encrusted with the alien excressence

and not far down the bio-mechanoid catacomb begins.

She enters the maze, darting glances at Hick's LOCATOR,

taped to the top of her kludge weapon.

A VOICE echoes down the tunnels, calm and mechanical.

INT. CATACOMB                                           172

Range and direction read out in rapid-fire alpha-numerics

on the locator display.

Ripley blinks sweat out of her eyes, moving through the

swirling steam of the alien maze.  She approaches an

intersecting tunnel.  Flashing emergency lights

illuminate the insane fresco of the walls.  She spins,

firing the flamethrower.  Nothing there.  She whirls

back.  Moves forward, trembling and adrenalized.

Skeletal figures drown in the walls, frozen in macabre

tormented positions like human insects in amber.

Steam blasts, blinding her.  The locator signal

strengthens an she turns, crouches through a low

passage, turns again.  At each intersection she quickly

lights a FIFTEEN-MINUTE MARKING FLARE and drops it.

For the way back.  She has to turn sideways, inching

through a fissure between two walls of death...cocoon

niches, human bas-relief sealed in resin.

SUDDENLY SOMETHING SHOOTS OUT, GRABBING HER!  A hand.

She recovers , then recognizes the face sealed in

the wall.  Carter Burke.

She looks at him.  No one deserves this.

She hands him a grenade, wrapping his fingers around

the spoon, and pulls the primer.  She moves on.

Ripley moves ahead.  The locator signals shows she is

almost there.  A CONCUSSION rocks the place, like an

earthquake, jarring her almost off her feet.  Then

another.  The whole station seems to shudder.  A SIREN

begins to wail a demented rhythm.  Following the tracker

she turns a corner and stops.  The RANGE INDICATOR READS

ZERO.  She looks down, horrified to see Newt's tracer

bracelet lying on the floor of the tunnel.  All hope

recedes, disintegrating into mindless chaos.

INT. EGG CHAMBER                                        173

Newt is cocooned in a pillarlike structure at the

edge of a cluster of upright OVOID SHAPES...alien

eggs.  Her eyelids flutter open and she becomes

aware of her surroundings.  The egg nearest her

begins to move...opening like an obscene flower at

its top to reveal something stirring within.  Newt

stares, transfixed by terror, as the jointed legs

appear over the lip of the ovoid one by one.  She

SCREAMS.

INT. CATACOMBS                                          174

Ripley hears the scream and breaks into a run.

INT. EGG CHAMBER                                        175

Newt watches the face-hugger emerge and turn toward

her.  Ripley runs in just as it is tensing to leap,

and FIRES, blasting it with a burst from the assault

rifle.  The flash illuminates the figure of an

adult warrior, nearby.  It spins, moving straight

for Ripley.  Firing from the hip she drills it with

two controlled bursts which catapult it back.  She

steps toward it, FIRING AGAIN.  Her expression is

murderous.  AND AGAIN.  It spins onto its back.

She unleashes the flamethrower and it vanishes in

a fireball.  Ripley runs to Newt and begins tearing

at the fresh resinous cocoon material, freeing the

child.  She swings her up onto her back.

Groggily Newt hooks her arms and legs through the belts

of Ripley's battle harness as Ripley picks up her

weapon.  More warriors are moving toward her among

the eggs.  She fires the flamethrower.  The eggs are

engulfed.  One of the warriors lunges forward, a

living fireball.  She blasts it in half with two

bursts from the M-41A.  Ripley retreats, ducking under

a glistening cylindrical mass.  A PIERCING SHRIEK

fill the chamber.  She turns.  And there it is.

A massive silhouette in the mist, the ALIEN QUEEN

glowers over her eggs like a great, glistening black

insect-Buddha.  What's bigger and meaner than the

Alien?  His momma.  Her fanged head is an unimaginable

horror.  Her six limbs, the four arms and two

powerful legs, are folded grotesquely over her

distended abdomen.  The egg-filled abdomen swells

and swells into a great pulsing tubular sac, suspended

from a lattice of pipes and conduits by a weblike

membrane as if some vast coil of intestine were draped

carelessly among the machinery.  Ripley realizes

she ducked under part of it a moment before.  Inside

the abdominal sac can be SEEN the forms of countless

eggs, churning their way toward the pulsating ovipositor

where they emerge glistening, to be picked up by

DRONES.  The drones are tiny scuttling albino versions

of the "warrior" aliens we have already seen.

Ripley pumps the slide on her grenade launcher.  She

fires.  Pumps and fires again.  Four times.  The

grenades punch deep into the egg sac and EXPLODE,

ripping it open from within.  Eggs are tons of gelatinous

matter pour across the chamber floor.  The Queen goes

berserk, SCREECHING like some psychotic steam whistle.

Ripley lays about her with the flamethrower, igniting

everything in sight with an insane fury.  Eggs shrivel

in the inferno, and figures of warriors and drones

vanish in frenzied thrashing.  Over all is the Queen's

shrieking as she struggles in the flames.  Two

warriors emerge from the boiling smoke, closing on

her.  She pulls the trigger...an empty click.  DIGITAL

COUNTER flashing crimson zeroes.  She drops the

magazine, grabs another from her belt, rams it home

and OPENS UP.

The creatures vanish in rapid-fire flashes.  Ripley

backs away, venting her terror in a sustained orgy

of fire as she blasts everything that moves in one

long eye-searing expenditure of energy.  Then she

dashes into the catacombs, navigating by sheer primal

instinct.

INT. CATACOMBS                                          176

Ripley runs, blindly, with panting intensity verging

on hysteria.  Impressions crash upon her...the maze

blurring by, sirens howling, the station rocking with

explosions, emergency lights flashing, steam blasting,

red-hot steel hissing.  Reality itself is reduced to

a concussive series of strobelike instants of

relentless forward motion.

She sees one of the flares she dropped and turns.

Sees another, sprinting toward it as the foundations

of the world shake.

INT. EGG CHAMBER                                        177

Lashing in a frenzy, the QUEEN DETACHES FROM THE EGG

SAC, ripping away and dragging torn cartilage and

tissue behind it.  SEEN DIMLY THROUGH swirling smoke,

it rises on its powerful legs and steps forward.

INT. CATACOMBS - CORRIDOR                               178-

Ripley uses the flamethrower ahead of her, firing

bursts of pulse-rifle fire down side corridors at

indistinct shapes and shadows.  The weapon is empty

when she reaches the freight elevators.  A mass of

debris, falling down the shaft from a higher level,

has demolished the life cage she descended in.  She

slams the control for the other cage and hears the

sound of the LIFT MOTOR'S WHINE as it begins its

slow descent from several levels up.  AN ENRAGED

SCREECH ECHOES in the corridor.  Ripley sees a

silhouette moving in the smoke...a glistening black

shape which FILLS THE CORRIDOR TO THE CEILING...THE

QUEEN.  Her last cartridge is reading zeroes.  The

flamethrower sputters uselessly when she tries that.

The grenades are gone.  Ripley drops the weapon and

looks up the shaft to the descending lift...then at

the approaching FIGURE.  The elevator won't be in time.

She runs to a ladder set in the wall as a horrendous

screech beats in her ears.  She scrambles up the

rungs.

INT. SECOND LEVEL                                       180

Ripley struggles up through a narrow hatch, Newt

clinging to her.  She dives aside as a POWERFUL

BLACK ARM shoots up through the opening, its

razor claws slamming into the grille-floor inches

from her.  Looking down through the grille she

sees the great horrifying jaws directly below her,

wet and leering.  She scrambles up, running, as

the grille-floor lifts and buckles behind her

with the titanic force of the creature below.

It hurls itself with insane ferocity against the

metal, pacing her from below as she runs.

INT. STAIRWELL                                          181

Ripley reaches an open-grid emergency stairwell and

sprints upward.  It rocks and shudders with the

station's death throes.

INT. CORRIDOR - ELEVATORS                               182-

The lift reaches bottom, the doors rolling open.

The Queen turns and freezes, as if contemplating

the open lift cage.

INT. STAIRWELL                                          184

Ripley stumbles, smashing her knees against the

metals stairs.  As she rises she hears the LIFT

MOTORS start up.  Looking down through the lattice

work of the station she sees the life cage start

ominously upward.  She knows there is only one

explanation for that.  She runs on, the stairwell

becoming a crazy whirl around her.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM                                   185

Ripley, with Newt still clinging to her, slams

through the door opening onto the platform.

Through wind-whipped streamers of smoke she

sees...THE SHIP IS GONE.

Her shouts become inarticulate screams of hatred,

outrage at the final betrayal.  She scans the sky.

Nothing.

Newt is sobbing.

The lift rises ponderously INTO VIEW.  Ripley turns,

backing away from the doors toward the railing.  There

is no place to run to on the platform.  EXPLOSIONS

detonate in the complex far below and huge fireballs

swell upward through the machinery.  The platform bucks

wildly.  Nearby a cooling tower collapses with a

THUNDEROUS ROAR and the SHRIEK OF RENDING STEEL.  More

EXPLOSIONS, one after another, rocketing up from below.

Ripley stares transfixed as the lift stops.  The

safety cage parts.

The lift doors begin to open.  A glimpse of the

apparition within.

ANGLE ON RIPLEY AND NEWT  as the drop-ship RISES RIGHT

BEHIND THEM, its hovering jets roaring.

Ripley leaps for the loading boom projecting down from

the cargo bay and it raises them into the ship.  A

TREMENDOUS EXPLOSION RIPS THROUGH THE COMPLEX nearby,

slamming the ship sideways.  Its extended landing legs

foul in a tangle of conduit, grinding with a hideous

squeal of metal on metal.

INT./EXT. DROP-SHIP - STATION                           186-

Ripley leaps into a seat with Newt, cradling her.  Begins

strapping in.  Bishop wrestles with the controls.  The

landing legs retract, ripping free.  Ripley slams her

seat harness latches home.

The entire lower level of the station disappears in a

fireball.  The air vibrates with intense heat waves and

concussion.  The drop-ship engines fire.  Ripley is

slammed back in her seat.  The ship vaults out and up,

Bishop standing it on its tail, pouring on the gees.

Ripley and Newt see everything shake into a blur.

EXT. STRATOSPHERE                                       188

The drop-ship lunges up and out of the cloud layer into

the clear high night.  Below, the clouds light up from

beneath from horizon to horizon.

A SUN HOT DOME OF ENERGY bursts up through the cloud

layer, WHITING OUT THE FRAME.  The tiny ship is slammed

by the shockwave, tossed forward...and climbs, scorched

but functioning, toward the stars.

INT. DROP-SHIP                                          189

Ripley and Newt watch the blinding glare fade away and

they sit, wide-eyed, trembling, realizing they are

finally and truly safe.  Newt starts to cry quietly,

and Ripley strokes her hair.

INT. SULACO CARGO LOCK - IN ORBIT - LATER               190

The scorched and battered ship once again sits in its

drop-bay, steam blasting from cooling vents beside the

engine.  Rotating clearance lights sweep the dark chamber

hypnotically.

INT. DROP-SHIP                                          191

Bishop stands behind Ripley as she kneels beside a

comatose Hicks.

Ripley nods and, picking up Newt, precedes Bishop down

the aisle to the loading ramp.

INT. CARGO LOCK - DROP-SHIP                             192

Bishop continues as they move down the ramp.

Ripley turns to him, stopping partway down the ramp.

She puts her hand on his shoulder.

He notices a tiny innocuous drop of liquid splash onto the

ramp next to his shoe.  SSSSSS.  Acid.  SOMETHING BURSTS

FROM HIS CHEST, spraying Ripley with milklike android blood.

It is the razor-sharp scorpion TAIL of the alien QUEEN.

Driven right through him from behind.  Bishop thrashes,

seizing the protruding section of tail in his hands, as is

slowly lifts him off the deck.  Above them the Queen

glowers from its place of concealment among the hydraulic

mechanisms inside one landing-leg bay.  It blends perfectly

with the machinery until it begins to emerge.  Seizing

Bishop in two great hands it rips him apart and flings him

aside, shredded, like a doll.  It descends slowly to the

deck, the rotating lights glistening across its shiny black

limbs, dripping acid and rage.  Still smoking where Ripley

half-fried it.  The Queen is huge, powerful...and very

pissed off.  It descends slowly, its six limbs unfolding in

inhuman geometries.

Ripley moves with nightmarish slowness herself, staring

hypnotized...terrified to break and run.  She lowers Newt

to the deck, never taking her eyes off the creature.

Newt runs for cover.  The Alien drops to the deck, pivoting

toward the motion.  Ripley waves her arms, decoying.

Without warning it moves like lightning, straight at her.

Ripley spins, sprinting, as the creature leaps for her.

Its feet slam, echoing, on the deck behind her.  She clears

a door.  Hits the switch.  It WHIRRS closed.  BOOM.  The

Alien hits a moment later.

INT. DARK CHAMBER                                       193

Ripley moves ferret-quick among dark, unrecognizable

machines.

VARIOUS ANGLES  VERY TIGHT ON what she is doing...her feet

going into stirruplike mechanisms.  Velcro straps

fastened over them.  Fingers stabbing buttons in a sequence.

Her hand closing on a complex grip-control.  The HUM of

powerful motors.  The WHINE of hydraulics.

INT. CARGO LOCK                                         194

The Queen turns its attention from the doors to Newt as

the little girl crawls into a system of trenchlike

service channels which cross the deck.  The channels are

covered by steel grillework and barely big enough for her

to crawl through.

INT. CHANNEL                                            195

Newt scurries like a rabbit as the looming figure of the

Alien appears above, seen through the bars.  A section of

grille is ripped away behind her.  She scrambles

desperately.  Another section is ripped away right at her

heels.  Light pouring in.  The next will be right above

her.

INT. CARGO LOCK                                         196

The Queen spins at the sound of door motors behind her.

The parting doors REVEAL an inhuman silhouette standing

there.

Ripley steps out, WEARING TWO TONS OF HARDENED STEEL.

THE POWER LOADER.  Like medieval armor with the power of

a bulldozer.  She takes a step...the massive foot

CRASH-CLANGS to the deck.  She takes another, advancing.

Ripley's expression is one you hope you'll never see...

Hell hath no fury like that of a mother protecting her

child and that primal, murderous rage surges through her

now, banishing all fear.

The Queen SCREECHES pure lethality and leaps.

WALLOP!  A roundhouse from one great hydraulic arm catches

it on its hideous skull and slams it into a wall.  It

rebounds into a massive backhand.  CRASH!  It goes

backward into heavy loading equipment.

The Queen emerges as a blur of rage, lashing with

unbelievable fury.  The battle is joined.

Claws swipe, tail lashes.  Ripley parries with radical

swipes of the steel forks.  They circle in a whirling

blur, demolishing everything in their path.  The cavernous

chamber echoes with nightmarish sounds...WHINE, CRASH,

CLANG, SCREECH.

They lock in a death embrace. Ripley closes the forks,

crushing two of the creature's limbs.  It lashes and

writhes with incredible fury, coming within inches of her

exposed body.  She lifts it off the ground.  The hind

legs rip at her, slamming against the safety cage, denting

it in.  The striking teeth extend almost a meter from

inside its fanged maw, shooting between the crash-bars.

She ducks and the teeth slam into the seat cushion

behind her dead in a spray of drool.  Yellow acid foams

down the hydraulic arms toward her.  The creature rips

at high-pressure hoses.  Purple hydraulic fluid sprays

...machine blood mixing with alien blood.  They topple,

off balance.  The Queen pins her.  Ripley hits a switch.

The power loader's CUTTING TORCH flares on, directly in

the thing's face.  They roll together, over the lip of

a RECTANGULAR PIT, A VERTICAL LOADING AIRLOCK.

INT. LOADING LOCK                                       197

They crash together four meters below, twisted in the

loader's wreckage.  The Alien shrieks, pinned.

Ripley pulls her arm out of the controls of the loader

and claws toward a panel of airlock actuating buttons.

She slaps the red "INNER DOOR OVERRIDE" and latches the

"HOLD" locking-key down.  A KLAXON begins to sound.  She

hits "OUTER DOOR OPEN" and there is a hurricane shriek of

air as the doors on which they are lying separate,

REVEALING the infinite pit of stars, below.

All this time the Alien has been lashing at her in a

frenzy and she has been parrying desperately in the

confined space.  The airlock becomes a wind tunnel,

blasting and buffetting her as she struggles to unstrap

from the loader.  The air of the vast ship howls past her

into space as she claws her way up a service ladder.

INT. CARGO BAY                                          198

Newt screams as the hurricane airstream sucks her across

the floor toward the airlock.   Bishop, torn virtually in

two, his pastalike internal organs whipped by the wind,

grips a stanchion and reaches desperately for Newt as she

slides past him.  He catches her arm and hangs on as she

dangles, doll-like, in the airblast.

INT. LOADING LOCK                                       199

The Alien seizes Ripley's ankle.  She locks her arms

around a ladder rung, feels them almost torn out of

their shoulder sockets.

The door opens farther, all of space yawning below.  The

loader tumbles clear, falling away.  It drags the Alien,

still clutching one of Ripley's lucky hi-tops, into the

depths of space.  Its SHRIEK fades, it gone.

With all her strength Ripley fights the blasting air,

crawling over the lip of the inner doorway.  She releases

the OVERRIDE from a second panel.  The inner doors close.

The turbulent air eddies and settles.

She lies on her back, drained of all strength.  Gasping

for breath.  Weakly she turns her head, seeing Bishop

still holding Newt by the arm.  Encrusted with his own

vanilla milkshake blood.  Bishop gives her a small, grim

smile.

He winks.

Ripley crosses to Newt.

Ripley hugs her desperately.

INT. CORRIDOR                                           200

Ripley limps along the corridor, carrying Newt on her hip.

The ship's systems hum comfortingly.  Newt's head rests

on her shoulder.

HOLD ON THEM AS they recede down the long straight

corridor.

