En route back to Earth from a far part of the galaxy, the crew of the

starship SNARK intercepts a transmission in an

originating from a nearby storm-shrouded planet.

Mankind has waited centuries to contact another form of intelligent

life in the universe -- they decide to land and investigate.  Their

search takes them to a wrecked alien spacecraft whose doors gape open

-- it is dead and abandoned.  Inside they find, among other strange

things, the skeleton of one of the unearthly space travellers.

Certain clues in the wrecked ship lead them across the hostile surface

of the planet to a primitive stone pyramid, the only remnant of a

vanished civilization.  Beneath this pyramid they find an ancient tomb

full of fantastic artifacts.  Lying dormant in the tomb are centuries-

old spores, which are triggered into life by the men's presence.  A

parasite emerges and fastens itself to one of the men's faces -- and

cannot be removed.

An examination by the ship's medical computer reveals that the

creature has inserted a tube down his throat, which is depositing

something inside him.  Then it is discovered that the parasite's blood

is a horribly corrosive acid which eats through metal -- they dare not

kill it on the ship.

Ultimately it is dislodged from its victim and ejected from the ship,

and they blast off from the Hell-planet.  However, before they can seal

themselves into suspended animation for the long voyage home, a

horrible little monster emerges from the victim's body -- it has been

growing in him, deposited there by the parasite... and now it is loose

on the ship.

A series of ghastly adventures follow.  They trap it in an air shaft

and a man has to crawl down the shaft with a flamethrower -- it tears

a man's head off and runs away with his body -- a man is crushed in

the air lock door and the ship loses most of its air in a terrific

windstorm -- another man is burned to death and then eaten by the

creature -- and another is woven into a cocoon as part of the alien's

bizarre life cycle.

Finally there is only one man left alive, alone on the ship with the

creature, and only six hours till his air runs out; which leads to a

climax of horrifying, explosive jeopardy, the outcome of which

determines who will reach Earth alive -- man or alien.

CHAZ STANDARD,

MARTIN ROBY,

DELL BROUSSARD,

SANDY MELKONIS,

CLEAVE HUNTER,

JAY FAUST,

The crew is unisex and all parts are interchangeable for men or women.

EXTREME CLOSEUPS OF FLICKERING INSTRUMENT PANELS.  Readouts and digital

displays pulse eerily with the technology of the distant future.

Wherever we are, it seems to be chill, dark, and sterile.  Electronic

machinery chuckles softly to itself.

Abruptly we hear a BEEPING SIGNAL, and the machinery begins to awaken.

Circuits close, lights blink on.

CAMERA ANGLES GRADUALLY WIDEN, revealing more and more of the

machinery, banks of panels, fluttering gauges, until we reveal:

A stainless steel room with no windows, the walls packed with

instrumentation.  The lights are dim and the air is frigid.

Occupying most of the floor space are rows of horizontal FREEZER

COMPARTMENTS, looking for all the world like meat lockers.

FOOM!  FOOM!  FOOM!  With explosions of escaping gas, the lids on the

freezers pop open.

Slowly, groggily, six nude men sit up.

Now they are yawning, stretching, and shivering.

This draws a few woozy chuckles.

This draws a LAUGH.

The men begin to swing out of the freezers.

Roby picks a limp cat out of a freezer.

This is a fantastic circular room, jammed with instrumentation.  There

are no windows, but above head level the room is ringed by

viewscreens, all blank for the moment.

There are seats for four men.  Each chair faces a console and is

surrounded by a dazzling array of technology.

STANDARD, ROBY, BROUSSARD, and MELKONIS are entering and finding their

seats.

They begin to throw switches, lighting up their consoles.  The control

room starts to come to life.  All around the room, colored lights

flicker and chase each other across glowing screens.  The room fills

with the hum and chatter of machinery.

Melkonis reaches to his console and presses a bank of switches.  The

strip of viewscreens flickers into life.

On each screen, we see BLACKNESS SPECKLED WITH STARS.

Melkonis hits buttons.  On the screens the images all begin to pan.

CAMERA MOVES IN ON ONE OF THE SCREENS, with its moving image of a

starfield.

CLOSE SHOT OF A PANNING TV CAMERA.  This camera is remote controlled,

turning silently on its base.

CAMERA BEGINS TO PULL BACK, revealing that the TV camera is mounted on

the HULL OF SOME KIND OF CRAFT.

When the pullback is finished, WE SEE THE FULL LENGTH OF THE STARSHIP

"SNARK," hanging in the depths of interstellar space, against a

background of glimmering stars.

Melkonis switches on his radio unit.

There is only the HISS OF STATIC.

Broussard goes into action, punching buttons, lighting up all his

instruments.

Standard picks up a microphone.

The men exchange glances.

Over the speakers, we hear a hum, a crackle, static...

silent.

The men all stare at each other in amazement.

There is a pause, then EVERYBODY STARTS TALKING AT THE SAME TIME.

Melkonis punches buttons.

Broussard punches buttons.  One of the viewscreens flickers, and a

small dot of light becomes visible in the corner of the screen.

He twists a knob, moving the image on the screen till the dot is in

the center.

He hits a button.  The screen flashes and a PLANET APPEARS.

Standard rises.

The entire crew -- STANDARD, ROBY, BROUSSARD, MELKONIS, HUNTER, and

FAUST -- are all seated around a table, with Standard at the head.

The men are strapping in, but this time it is with grim determination.

He jabs his controls.  The image on the screen ZOOMS DOWN TOWARD THE

PLANET; but all detail quickly vanishes into a featureless grey haze.

The great dish antenna on the SNARK folds down against the main body

of the ship, and other parts flatten out, until the ship has assumed

an aerodynamic form.

The SNARK's engines cough into life, and send it drifting toward the

distant dot that is the planetoid.

CAMERA APPROACHES THE PLANETOID, until it looms large on screen.  It is

turbulent, completely enveloped in dun-colored clouds.

The SNARK drops down toward the surface.

Beneath the orbiting SNARK, night's curtain rolls across the planet.

Descending at an angle, the SNARK drops down into the thick atmosphere

of the planetoid.

Hydroplaning down through the pea-soup atmosphere, a set of brilliant

lights switches on, cutting through the dust, but hardly improving

visibility.

There is a LOUD ELECTRICAL HUM and the ship shudders.

The engines fall silent.

The night-shrouded surface is a hell of blowing dust.  The SNARK hovers

above it on glowing beams of light, dropping down slowly.

Landing struts unfold like insect legs.

The ship touches down, heavily; it rocks on huge shock absorbers.

The whole ship VIBRATES VIOLENTLY FOR AN INSTANT -- then all the

panels in the room flash simultaneously and the LIGHT'S GO OUT.

The lights come back on again.

There is a BEEP from the communicator.  Then:

Melkonis hits buttons.  The screens flicker, but remain black.

Only a few glittering lights distinguish the ship from the absolute

darkness around it.

THE WIND MOANS AND SCREAMS.  DUST BLOWS IN FRONT OF THE TINY GLIMMERING

LIGHTS.

A ring of FLOODLIGHTS on the ship come to life, pouring blinding light

out into the night.

They illuminate nothing but a patch of featureless grey ground and

clouds of blowing dust.  The wind shrieks.

Standard stares at the dark screens.

They all look at him.

The floodlights on the SNARK fight a losing battle against the

darkness and the storm.  MAIN THEME MUSIC BEGINS, EXTREMELY OMINOUS.

THE TITLE APPEARS:

RUN TITLES.

Gradually, the screen begins to lighten as the SUN RISES.  The

silhouette of the SNARK becomes visible, like some strange insect

crouching motionless on the barren plain.  The floods shut off.  Dense

clouds of impenetrable dust shriek and moan, obscuring everything and

reducing the sunlight to a dull orange.

END MAIN TITLES.

CLOSE ON A SCREEN - it shows nothing but swirling clouds of orange

dust.

PULL BACK FROM SCREEN.  The men (Standard, Roby, Broussard, and

Melkonis) are sitting and standing around the room, drinking coffee

and staring at the screens, which reveal only the billowing dust.

Roby gives Broussard a black look, then stabs a button on his console

and speaks into the mike.

Faust is seated at an electronic workbench, brightly lit, speaking

into a wall intercom.

Standard, Broussard and Melkonis enter the lock.  They all wear gloves,

boots, jackets, and pistols.

Broussard touches a button and the inner door slides silently shut,

sealing them into the lock.

They all pull on rubber full-head oxygen masks.

Ponderously, the outer lock door slides open.  ORANGE SUNLIGHT streams

into the lock, and clouds of dust swirl in.  We hear the MOANING OF THE

WIND OUTSIDE.

A mobile stairway slides out of the open hatchway, and clunks as it

hits the ground.

Standard walks out into the storm, followed by the others.

The three men trot down the gangplank to the surface of the planet.

Their feet sink into a thick layer of dust and loose rock.

The men huddle together, looking around.  The wind screams and tugs at

their clothes.  Nothing can be seen.

Melkonis is fiddling with a portable direction-finder.

Melkonis walks into the blinding dust clouds, followed closely by the

others.

Roby is the sole occupant of the bridge.  He is huddled over his

console, smoking a cigarette and watching three moving blips on a

screen.

The three men plough their way through a limbo of yellow dust and

shrieking wind.  With their rubbery masks and deliberate movements,

they look like deep-sea divers at the bottom of a murky ocean.

Melkonis leads the column, following the compass on the direction

finder.

They wade on, following Melkonis.  Abruptly he halts.

He studies the direction finder.

Roby is listening intently to the dialogue from the helmet radios.

His concentration is so great that he does NOT NOTICE HUNTER COMING UP

BEHIND HIM.

Standing DIRECTLY BEHIND ROBY, Hunter speaks.

Startled out of his wits, Roby GASPS and whirls around to face Hunter.

Hunter stares at Roby, whose momentary terror dissolves into

embarrassed anger.

The three men push their way through the storm.  Melkonis stops again,

studies the direction finder.

Suddenly, Broussard grabs Standard's arm and points.  The others stare

in the direction he is pointing.

REVERSE ANGLE - THEIR POINT-OF-VIEW

Through the dense clouds of swirling dust we can just barely make out

some kind of HUGE SHAPE.

As we watch, the dust clears slightly, REVEALING A GROTESQUE SHIP

RISING FROM THE SHIP LIKE SOME GIGANTIC TOADSTOOL.  It is clearly of

non-human manufacture.

ANGLE ON THE MEN

They are struck dumb by the sight of the craft.  Finally, Standard

finds his voice.

They start toward the alien ship.

Roby and Hunter are listening with hypnotic concentration.

A strangely shaped DOOR yawns open at the base of the ship.  Dust and

sand have blown in, filling the lower part of the entrance.

With great caution, the men approach the entrance and group around it.

The doorway is a glowing geometric blur of light against blackness,

spewing dust.  In the darkness of the chamber are huge, formless

shapes.

Standard, Broussard and Melkonis appear silhouetted against the

doorway.  They switch on flashlight-like devices called "DATASTICKS",

and step in.

Carefully, peering around, they pick their way past the indistinct

machinery.

As they move their lights around, they can see that the walls,

ceiling, and machinery are FULL OF HUGE, IRREGULAR HOLES.

Broussard shines his light up into a huge hole in the ceiling.

They all peer up the hole into darkness.

Standard draws out a stubby spear gun with a graplon attached to it.

He aims it up into the hole and fires.

The graplon is launched up into darkness, trailing a thin wire.  There

is a dull CLUNK, and the wire dangles.

Standard attaches the wire to a powered gear box on his chest, and

presses a button.  With a mechanical whine, he is pulled up into the

hole, using his feet for leverage where he can.

Broussard attaches the wire to his own chest unit.

This chamber is totally dark as Broussard arrives at the top of the

hole.

Standard stands with his flashlight/camera ("datastick") tracing a

beam through the hanging dust.

Broussard unclips himself from the climbing wire, then raises his own

light.  At that moment, Melkonis arrives at the top of the hole.

THEIR LIGHTS SCAN THE ROOM.  The beams are clearly visible as columns

of light in the floating dust.  They reveal heavy, odd shapes.

Broussard stumbles over something.  He shines his light down on it.

It is a large, glossy urn, brown in color, with peculiar markings.

Broussard stands it upright.  It has a round opening in the top, and is

empty.

Suddenly, Melkonis lets out a grunt of shock.  Their lights have

illuminated something unspeakably grotesque: A HUGE ALIEN SKELETON,

SEATED IN THE CONTROL CHAIR.

They approach the skeleton, their lights trained on it.  IT IS A

GROTESQUE THING, BEARING NO RESEMBLANCE TO THE HUMAN FORM.

Standard shines his light on the console at which the hideous skeleton

is seated.  He moves his light closer and peers at the panel.

They approach.

Traced raggedly onto the surface of the panel, as by the point of a

sharp instrument, is a small triangle:

Hearing something, Broussard flashes his light across the room.  As the

beam scans the walls, it briefly touches on SOMETHING THAT MOVES.

Melkonis convulsively yanks out his pistol.

Standard knocks his hand down.

Standard shoulders himself in front of the others.  Then, slowly, he

begins to move toward the far side of the room.

They approach a console on the wall, training their lights on it.

There is a machine.  On the machine, a small bar moves steadily back

and forth, sliding noiselessly in its grooves.

Melkonis looks down at his direction finder.

He throws a switch on the direction finder -- with a crackle and a

hum, the UNEARTHLY VOICE fills their earphones.

SINISTER ANGLE ON THE SNARK.  As we watch, the sunlight turns the color

of blood, and then the sun is down, leaving murky blackness in its

wake.  The ring of floodlights on the ship flares into life, feebly

combatting the darkness and the storm.

The entire crew is seated around the conference table, watching

holographic pictures projected onto a screen.  These are photos taken

by their "datasticks" (flashlight/cameras).

Standard is commenting on the changing slides.

Two or three pictures click onto the screen in succession, showing the

suited men standing against banks of machinery.

The SKELETON appears on the screen.  The men react with mutters.

The triangle that was cut into the alien's console appears.

Standard changes the slide.  The screen goes white.

He turns off the projector and brings the lights up.

Roby is slumped in his chair.  He has said nothing.

They all turn to look in the direction of Roby's nod.  CAMERA MOVES

OVER TO REVEAL THE ALIEN SKULL SITTING ON A TABLE.

There is a moment of silence.

The men rise and begin to disperse, but Roby remains seated, deep in

thought, staring at the skull.  Melkonis lingers in the room with him.

ANGLE ON THE SHIP, its spotlights cutting into the gloom.

A room throbbing with power, enormous pulsing engines capable of

releasing unimaginable energies.

Faust has a complicated arrangement set up at the base of one of the

engines, with spotlights on it.  He is wearing goggles and thin gloves.

Broussard and Melkonis are seated at their consoles, conversing with

Faust while they watch their instruments.

He pauses to wipe his brow.

Roby is alone in the room, slumped into a chair, watching the

photographic slides on the screen.  He is clicking slowly through them.

He stops on an angle of the skeleton, and stares at it.

The alien's misshapen skull is sitting on the table next to him.  He

picks it up, holds it up to the screen for comparison, and studies it.

Standard appears in the doorway.

Roby STARTS, puts down the skull.  Standard sits at the table.

Roby reaches over and changes the slide, to the one of the CRUDELY

DRAWN TRIANGLE ON THE ALIEN CONTROL PANEL.

Roby switches off the projector, sits up, and rubs his face wearily.

He rises and goes to the coffee machine.

BEEP!  The communicator interrupts Standard.  He leans across and

presses the button.

He and Roby head for the door.

Broussard is alone in the control room when Standard and Roby arrive.

The dust no longer blows.  The day is crisp, clear, and silent.

BLIP!  Broussard enlarges the image.

The screen now shows a TAPERING STONE PYRAMID on the horizon.

They all stare at the image for a long moment.  The silhouette of the

PYRAMID IS INSTANTLY SUGGESTIVE OF THE SCRAWLED TRIANGLE in the alien

ship.

Standard presses the nearest communicator and speaks into the grille.

ANGLE ON A VIEWSCREEN.  It shows the PYRAMID on the horizon.  CAMERA

PULLS BACK to reveal all the men, sitting and standing around the

room.

On the screens, a puff of DUST blows in front of the pyramid.

WITH A SHRIEK, THE DUST STORM RETURNS, completely obscuring the SNARK.

Everyone looks around the room, but no one volunteers.

LONG SHOT OF THE STONE PYRAMID, dust blowing in front of it.  It is a

crumbling, ancient edifice, made of eroded grey stones, windowless,

tapering toward the top.

Standard, Broussard, and Melkonis, wearing the protective suits,

approach the pyramid.  As they draw near, it becomes clear that the

pyramid is roughly 50 feet tall.

Roby and Hunter are present.  They are listening to Standard's VOICE ON

THE RADIO.

BUZZZZZ!  Standard's voice is DROWNED OUT BY STATIC.

The three men come to the base of the massive structure.  Dust and sand

have piled thickly around the crumbling, grey stones that form the

base.

They walk around the base.

The INTERCOM BEEPS.  Faust's voice is heard.

A LOUD, POWERFUL THROBBING BEGINS, drowning out all other sounds, as

the engines are tested.

A light on Roby's panel is FLASHING.  We can see that it is the

COMPUTER ALERT.

Irritably, Roby throws the switch.

He puts an earphone to his ear and switches the computer's voice over.

There is a PAUSE while Roby listens to the computer.  His eyes widen.

Another PAUSE as he listens to the earphone.

Another PAUSE.  Roby's face changes; he looks CHILLED TO THE BONE.  His

mouth works.

Abruptly, THE ENGINES SHUT OFF, LEAVING A RINGING SILENCE.

Broussard takes out the graplon-gun, and fires the hook up toward the

top of the pyramid.  It catches.  He clips himself to the wire.

Broussard turns on the climbing device, and begins to walk up the side

of the pyramid.

OMINOUS ANGLES showing Broussard climbing the pyramid, the dust

blowing, the wind shrieking.

The peak of the pyramid is in extreme disrepair.  Broussard arrives at

the top and clings to the jagged, crumbling stones.

Broussard leans over and looks into the hole.  He sees only blackness.

Freeing one arm, he unclips his datastick from his belt, switches on

the "flashlight" function, and shines it down into the hole.

Faust comes trotting up the steps, a questioning look on his face.

Hanging from the lip of the hole, Broussard is unclipping gear from

his belt.

Standard and Melkonis exchange a glance.

Broussard has rigged a tripod across the mouth of the hole.  He

unspools a couple feet of wire from the device, and attaches the end

of it to his chest unit.

He climbs over the lip and drops into the hole.  He is now hanging by

the wire, with his head and shoulders out of the hole.

Broussard activates the climbing unit and lowers himself down into the

hole.

Bracing his feet against the rough stone wall of the vertical tunnel,

Broussard switches on his datastick and points it down into the

depths.

The beam penetrates only thirty feet or so, then is lost in darkness.

He starts down, paying out the line and moving down in short hops,

pushing off each time with his feet.

He stops to catch his breath.  His breathing rasps loudly in his

helmet.

A little sunlight filters down from above.  Looking up, he can see the

mouth of the hole, a glowing spot of light.

Standard's voice comes over his earphones.

He kicks off and continues down, taking longer and longer hops as he

gains confidence.

Pausing for a moment to regain his breath, he shines the light on his

instruments.

Roby and Hunter.

Broussard resumes his downward climb.  SUDDENLY, HIS FEET LOSE THEIR

PURCHASE AS THE WALLS OF THE SHAFT DISAPPEAR.

The tunnel has reached its end.  Below him is an unfathomable,

cavernous space.

Puffing with exertion, he releases his purchase on the stone walls and

begins to lower himself on power.  Now he is dangling free in darkness,

spinning slowly on the wire as the chest unit unwinds.

Finally, his feet hit bottom.  He grunts in surprise and almost loses

his balance.

Broussard is standing on a dusty stone floor, with a feeble column of

sunlight shining down around him from the tunnel above.  Around is

solid darkness.

He flashes his datastick around.  The beam reveals that he is in a

stone room.  STRANGE HEIROGLYPHICS are carved into the walls.  They have

a primitive, religious appearance.  Row after row of pictograms stretch

from floor to ceiling, some epic history in an unknown language.  Huge

religious symbols dominate one wall.

Spaced at intervals are stylized stone statues, depicting grotesque

monsters, half anthropoid, half octopus.

Annoyed, Broussard yanks off his breathing goggles, and leaves them

hanging around his neck.  He takes a deep breath of the wet air.

Standard and Melkonis are standing around nervously.

Face bare, Broussard approaches the center of the room, which is

dominated by a large, broad pedestal.  On the pedestal are ROWS OF

LEATHERY URNS OR JARS, EXACTLY LIKE THE ONE BROUSSARD STUMBLED ACROSS

IN THE ALIEN SHIP -- EXCEPT THESE ARE ALL SEALED.

He walks around the urns, studying them.  They all have sealed lids.  He

shines his light on one of them; then he lays his gloved hand on it.

He lifts his mask radio to his lips.

He peers more closely at the leathery object.

THE SUN DROPS BELOW THE HORIZON, throwing the landscape into gloom.

Standard and Melkonis switch on their lights.

He attaches his chest unit to the wire and starts up.

Broussard is moving his light along the rows of heiroglyphs on the

wall.  They depict stylized drawings of strange monsters.

He pauses to quickly change the film clip in his datastick; then he

turns back to the "urn" he was examining -- BUT NOW THERE IS A HOLE IN

THE TOP OF IT.

He shines his light on the floor at the base of the "urn."  There lies

the "lid" -- the stopper that had filled the hole.  He picks it up and

studies it.  It appears more organic than artificial; the inside

surface is spongy and irregular.

Then he turns the light to the now-open "urn."

He bends over the mouth of the "urn" shining the light in, AND WITH

SHOCKING VIOLENCE, A SMALL, OCTOPUS-LIKE THING LEAPS OUT AND ATTACHES

ITSELF TO HIS FACE, WRAPPING ITS TENTACLES AROUND HIS HEAD.

With a MUFFLED SCREAM, he launches himself backward, tearing at the

thing with his hands.

The dust blows and howls as Standard and Melkonis arrive at the top,

lights bobbing in the darkness.

Standard hesitates, clinging to the lip of the hole.

Standard pulls himself up and crouches precariously on the edge of the

tunnel.  He begins to fiddle with the winch mechanism from which

Broussard's line dangles.

He switches on the winch motor.  With a whine, it begins to reel the

line in.  After a moment, the line TIGHTENS WITH A JERK -- and the

motor slows down, laboring under the added weight.

Standard shines his light down into the hole.

For a moment, the two men hang to the narrow top of the pyramid,

saving their strength, while the line reels in and the wind howls.

Then Standard shines his light back down in.

The winch begins to LABOR HEAVILY.

Broussard appears at the top of the pit, dangling limply from the

wire.  Standard reaches for him -- then RECOILS SHARPLY.

Melkonis attempts to come to his aid.

In their panic and confusion, the men teeter momentarily, finally

regain their balance.  They shine their lights on Broussard.

He appears to be completely unconscious -- AND THE OCTOPUS THING IS

STILL WRAPPED AROUND HIS FACE, MOTIONLESS.

With his gloved hands, Standard grasps the tentacled mess and tries to

pull it from Broussard's head.

The two men grapple with Broussard's limp body, lifting him from the

hole.

Roby and Hunter are sitting moodily, silent.  There is a long moment

while nothing is said, then:

Roby grabs a microphone.

Roby collapses into a chair, suddenly limp with apprehension.  He's

feared something like this all along, and now it has begun to happen.

Hunter dashes from the room.

Roby remains where he is, seated at his console.  He is stunned, his

mind racing.  CAMERA MOVES IN ON HIS FACE.

Hunter comes racing down the steps and hurries up to the inner lock

door.

He presses the wall intercom.

Faust comes running up, covered with grime.

Roby is seated alone in the room, listening to the transmission from

Standard and Melkonis.

Roby leans forward and speaks into the microphone.

Roby does not reply.

Hating it, Roby leans forward and throws the switch.

A RED LIGHT goes on, on a console on the wall.  The whine of a large

servo is heard, followed by a solid metallic CLUNK.

After a moment, they hear the motor sound again, followed by another

CLUNK.  The outer door has closed again.  The red light goes off.

The inner door slides open, and Standard and Melkonis stagger through,

carrying the sagging body of Broussard.  A cloud of choking dust

follows them out of the lock.

Hunter and Faust RECOIL.

Hunter and Faust move in carefully to help with the limp burden.

One of them flicks on the lights as they come shuffling into the

medical room, carrying Broussard.

Revealed is a rather small cubicle whose walls are lined with

machinery.  The principle item of interest is a mechanized bunk bed,

which rests in a cradle and slides in and out of a slot in the wall.

They slide the man onto the bunk.

Standard yanks off his gloves.

They pull thin elastic gloves from a dispenser in the wall, and pull

them on.

Gingerly, they approach Broussard.

Standard places his hands on the octopus-thing that is slowly pulsing

on Broussard's face.  He grasps the tentacles in his hands and tries to

pull it free.

Faust takes a pair of pliers from a rack, and carefully grasps the tip

of one of the tentacles.  Squeezing tightly, he leans back with all his

weight.

A trickle of blood begins to ooze down Broussard's cheek.

Efficiently, they strip Broussard naked, then Standard presses a

couple of switches on the wall.  The machine lights up, and Broussard

is sucked into the slot in the wall.

He is visible inside.  The machine immediately sprays a cloud of

disinfectant on him, then sterilizes him with a blinding pink light.

A bank of video monitors pops on, revealing X-ray images of different

parts of his body.  Sensors begin to scan, relays chatter.

ROBY APPEARS IN THE DOORWAY.

Standard turns and looks at him.  For a long moment, the two men regard

each other, then STANDARD STEPS FORWARD AND SLAPS ROBY ACROSS THE

FACE.

The others are shocked.

Faust exits.

After a hard stare at Roby, Standard gives him a curt nod and turns

his attention to the machinery.

They study the monitors.

Standard punches some buttons, and on the monitors, a kind of X-ray

image in vivid colors appears, depicting Broussard's HEAD AND UPPER

TORSO.

The parasite is clearly visible on Broussard's face.  In X-ray, the

creature is a maze of complicated biology.  But the shocking thing is

that, in X-ray, we can see that Broussard's jaws are forced wide open,

and THE PARASITE HAS EXTRUDED SOME KIND OF LONG TUBE, WHICH IS STUFFED

INTO HIS MOUTH AND DOWN HIS THROAT, ending near his stomach.

Hunter bends over and RETCHES.

Standard picks up his dusty breathing mask and pulls it over his head.

Then he pulls back on his bulky gloves.  Finally, he presses a switch

and Broussard slides back out of the booth.

Melkonis takes a glittering surgical blade from a slot in the wall,

and carefully passes it to Standard.

Clumsily because of the gloves, Standard manipulates the knife in his

hand till he has a decent grip on it.  Then he flicks a little button

with his thumb.  The scalpel begins to hum.

Standard advances on the parasite.  The others draw back nervously.

Roby reaches over and draws yet a longer blade from the rack, and

holds it inconspicuously at his side.

Standard bends over the parasite.  Carefully, he touches the scalpel to

the extreme end of one of the tentacles, where it curves toward the

back of Broussard's head.

Effortlessly, the electronic blade slides through the alien tissue.

Immediately, a urine-like fluid begins to flow from the wound.

The noxious-looking liquid drips down onto the bedding next to

Broussard's head.  Instantly, it starts to hiss, and a thin stream of

smoke curls up from the stain.

The others REACT nervously.

By now, the yellow fluid has eaten a hole through the bunk bed and has

dripped down onto the floor below.  The metal floor begins to bubble

and sizzle, and more smoke rises.

The men start to COUGH.

Abruptly, the men jostle their way out of the room and huddle in the

corridor outside, coughing their lungs out.

Standard, who is masked, remains.  Frantically, he attempts to put a

bandage on the wound, but the fluid instantly melts the bandage, and

in the process, some of the stuff gets on Standard's gloves.  They

begin to smoke.

Frantically Standard leaps back, pulling off the smouldering gloves.

Then he runs out into the corridor and yanks off his mask.

By this time Standard has started to run for the stairs.

Followed by the others, Standard frantically clangs down the stairs to

the level below.

A droplet of the fluid is sizzling on the ceiling.  It oozes down and

drips to the floor.

It bubbles on the floor.

Standard and Hunter charge down the stairs to the level below.

Standard and Hunter move cautiously down the corridor, looking up at

the ceiling.

Roby and Melkonis crouch by the spot on the floor where the acid

sizzles.

Roby fishes a pen out of his pocket and probes into the hole in the

floor.

Hunter comes charging up the steps.

Hunter approaches and looks.  Roby straightens up, starts to put the

pen back in his pocket, then changes his mind and stands holding it by

the end.

Standard comes up the stairs.

They turn and run up the stairs.

They all come into the room (Roby carrying the partially melted pen).

Broussard is still motionless on the bunk, with the thing on his face.

Standard approaches and peers at Broussard's head.

Standard presses a button, and Broussard slides back into the

diagnostic coffin.  He presses more buttons, and the displays light up

again, showing different parts of Broussard's body.

Standard operates some controls, and the machine begins to invade

Broussard's body, sliding needles into him.

The X-ray reveals a spreading dark blot in the vicinity of Broussard's

chest.  In the center, the stain is completely opaque.

Again we are watching slides in the darkened room.  This time Standard,

Roby, Melkonis, and Hunter are watching the sequence of photographs

taken automatically by Broussard's datastick as he probed the tomb.

The camera reveals the "urns."  The climax of the sequence of stills

comes when THE CREATURE LEAPS OUT OF THE "URN" TOWARD THE CAMERA --

and after that the camera drops to a useless angle and proceeds to

show a series of meaningless blurs.  Then the reel ends.

CLICKETYCLICKETYCLICK -- Melkonis accelerates through the slides in a

blur, stopping at the one he wants -- which shows a strip of

heiroglyphs on the wall of the tomb.

CLICK.  CLICK.  Melkonis is changing the slides as they talk, showing

different angles on the glyphs.

Standard and Hunter come down the passageway.

They arrive at the infirmary.

The door slides open, and they step into the room.  Hunter activates

the bed, and it slides out of the wall.

THERE IS A LONG, HORRIFIED PAUSE.

They rush to Broussard's prone form.  THE PARASITE IS GONE FROM HIS

FACE.

Broussard is still unconscious, but he is breathing.  HIS FACE IS

COVERED WITH SUCKER MARKS.

They immediately grow very tense.  Hunter starts edging toward the

door.  Standard grabs his arm.

Standard picks up a stainless steel tray with a lid.

Tray in one hand, lid in the other, Standard begins moving slowly

around the room.  There are very few places to hide.

He bends down and peers under the bunk.

As he is down on his hands and knees, WE SEE ONE TENTACLE OF THE

THING, VIBRATING ON A LEDGE JUST ABOVE STANDARD.

He rises, and HIS SHOULDER BRUSHES THE TENTACLE.  THE PARASITE DROPS TO

THE FLOOR.

But the thing is not moving.  It lies motionless on the floor, its

tentacles curled up.  Its color has faded to a dead-looking grey.

Without taking his eyes off the thing, Standard reaches behind him and

takes a long probe from the wall.  He prods the thing; it does not

respond.

With great care, he uses the probe to fish the motionless parasite

into the tray.  Then he quickly closes the lid.

Standard, Roby, and Melkonis have the parasite spread-eagled on a

stainless steel table, with a bright light on it.  It is belly-side up.

Wearing gloves, Standard probes at the thing with an instrument.

With a pair of needle-nosed pliers, Standard fishes in the fleshy

aperture.  Carefully, he extracts the end of the tube-organ.

Suddenly, it starts to FALL APART IN THE PLIERS.

It begins to SMOKE AND BUBBLE.

Roby grabs a long pair of tongs from the wall and thrusts them at

Standard -- who throws down the pliers, snatches the tongs and seizes

the thing in the tongs.

It is smouldering and dripping acid on the floor.

Carrying the thing, he heads for the door.

The men run down the passageways, Standard carrying the dripping thing

in the tongs.  It leaves little smoking droplets on the floor.

They come running up to the airlock.  Roby stabs the button and the

inner door slides open.  By the time Standard is in the lock, Roby is

already on the intercom:

Roby stumbles in as the inner door closes; and with a heavy whine, the

thick surface door rumbles open.  Orange sunlight billows in, followed

by the inevitable dust.

Standard HURLS THE CARCASS OUT, tongs and all.

The parasite hits the ground and begins to sink into the dust,

smouldering and fuming.

The outer door rolls shut.

Melkonis gets down on his knees and studies the small burn-holes in

the floor.

Standard opens the inner door and steps out into the corridor.  There,

he activates the wall intercom and punches out a combination.

He switches off the intercom.

He turns and walks away.

The cat is strolling around as Roby and Melkonis drop into seats;

Standard draws a cup of coffee from the machine.

This brings a CHILLY SILENCE.

Suddenly the door opens and Faust sticks his head in.  He is covered

with dirt and grime.

The SNARK's engines cough and then with a ROAR BEGIN TO BELCH OUT

STREAMS OF SUPERHEATED AIR, cutting through the tulgy dust.

The ship roars and vibrates like a huge beast, capable of unlimited

power.

They are all at their posts.

There is a hair-tingling ELECTRICAL HUM which permeates the whole

ship, and it begins to float, like a cork in water.

The pitch of the hum changes, and the ship levels itself.

The ship is hovering above the ground on beams of shimmering force.

The landing struts fold up under the belly of the ship.

The SNARK begins to levitate up into the sky, on the beams of light.

A POWERFUL, DEEP THROBBING BEGINS.  THE SHIP VIBRATES.

The hovering SNARK begins to accelerate through the choking

atmosphere.

Roby throws a switch, and the ship LURCHES.

The men get busy with switches.

A HUGE TREMOR RUNS THROUGHOUT THE SHIP.

In answer, THE COMMUNICATOR BEEPS.

The pitch of the engines changes, deepens.

The SNARK swoops up at an acute angle into the boiling clouds.

Visibility is zero.

Faust is pulling on a gasmask, because the engine chamber is beginning

to fill with dust.  He turns on a huge exhaust unit which begins to

suck up some of the dust.

On the screens, nothing but clouds.  Then, ANOTHER TREMOR SHUDDERS

THROUGH THE SHIP.  The men no longer speak; their expressions are grim,

set, and sweating; they are watching their instruments.  Periodically

they mutter technical instructions to each other.

Abruptly the ship CLEARS THE TOP OF THE CLOUD LAYER AND BURSTS OUT

INTO STAR-SPRINKLED SPACE, trailing a wake of dust behind it.

They all CHEER.

Roby begins to punch buttons.

The ship's speed is so great that there is perceptible movement in the

universe all around.

There is a strange corona effect which causes the stars approaching

the ship to appear blue, and the receding ones to be red.  This is

redshift, made visible because of their incredible velocity.

They are unstrapping.

They rise and head out of the room.

As they walk along.

They enter the infirmary.

As they enter the room, THEY ARE SHOCKED TO SEE BROUSSARD SITTING UP

in BED -- AWAKE.

Instantly, Roby brings him a plastic cup of water.  Broussard gulps it

down in a swallow.

Roby quickly fills a much bigger container and hands it to Broussard,

who greedily consumes the entire thing.  Then he sags, panting, on the

bunk.

Melkonis laughs at this remark.  Broussard smiles faintly at him.

The entire crew is seated around the table, eating huge portions

greedily.  The cat eats from a dish on the table.

They all CHUCKLE.

Suddenly, unexpectedly, BROUSSARD GRIMACES AND GROANS.

The others stare at him in alarm.  Another GROAN is torn from his lips.

He clutches the edge of the table with his hands, his knuckles

whitening.

Broussard's face is screwed up into a mask of agony, and he is

trembling violently from head to foot.

A RED SMEAR OF BLOOD BLOSSOMS ON THE CHEST OF BROUSSARD'S TUNIC.

THEIR EYES ARE ALL RIVETTED TO BROUSSARD'S CHEST AS THE FABRIC OF HIS

TUNIC IS RIPPED OPEN, AND A HORRIBLE NASTY LITTLE HEAD THE SIZE OF A

MAN'S FIST PUSHES OUT.

Everybody SCREAMS and leaps back from the table.  The cat spits and

bolts.

The disgusting little head lunges, comes spurting out of Broussard's

chest trailing a thick, wormlike tail -- splattering fluids and blood

-- lands in the middle of the dishes and food on the table -- and

scurries away while the men are stampeding for safe ground.

When they finally regain control of themselves, it has escaped.

Broussard lies slumped in his chair, a huge hole in his chest,

spouting blood.  The dishes are scattered and the food is covered with

blood and slime.

Slowly, they gather around Broussard's gutted corpse.

A hatch slides open on the side of the ship, and Broussard's wrapped

body tumbles silently out.

AN ELECTRONIC BASS DRUM BEATS A DIRGE as Broussard drifts into

eternity.

The entire remaining crew is walking toward the bridge.

They enter the bridge.

No one likes this thought.

They start for the exit.

The SNARK continues on its way through the weird vortex of hyperspace.

Standard is walking purposefully along the corridor, alone.  He is

garmented in an unusual outfit which makes him look like a riot

policeman, including clear plastic helmet.

He reaches a corner and turns.  But this new passageway has a different

gravity orientation -- Standard seems to be walking down a vertical

wall.

He makes yet another disorienting turn, and now he is walking upside-

down.  He reaches a set of steps and climbs up them -- or rather, down

them.

Melkonis is seated in the dome, upside-down, peering down into space.

He also wears the protective suit.

Standard, upside-down, climbs into the dome.  It is dark and eerie

here, under the stars of interstellar space.  A few glowing panels

provide the only illumination.

The whole crew has assembled.  Faust is unfolding several yards of

shimmering metallic netting.

Hunter hands out five thin rods, like metal broom handles.

He demonstrates by touching the tip of one of the rods to a metal

object.  A blue spark leaps.

He picks up a small portable unit.

Standard takes the device and studies it.

Standard shoots him a vicious look, then continues:

Faust takes the device and turns it on.  He scans it around the room.

They start doling out the equipment.

Melkonis and Roby carry the net, while Faust walks directly behind it,

carrying the tracking device.  He continually scans it from side to

side.

Standard and Hunter move silently along.  Standard is forced to serve a

double function, carrying one edge of the net and the tracker as well.

Roby's team is moving at a fairly brisk pace, when:

Faust's tracker is BEEPING, and a small light flashes.

Immediately, they grow very tense and start looking around.

Faust turns the tracker on its side, and the needle stabilizes.

They all look down at their feet.

Roby, Melkonis, and Faust come carefully down a set of crude metal

stairs, into a drab, functional section of the ship.

The corridors in this level are lit by rows of bare bulbs in the

ceiling.  The effect is ugly and confining.

They stop at the foot of the stairs and move into position, spreading

the net across the corridor.

They begin to walk down the passageway, footsteps clanging on the raw

metal flooring.  It is extremely dark.

They switch on the helmet lights.

CAMERA FOLLOWS THEM AROUND A COUPLE OF TURNINGS, AND THEN:

They all stop quickly, almost stumbling.

Roby and Melkonis heft the net, each keeping his prod in hand.  Faust,

prod in one hand and tracker in the other, has the unpleasant job of

approaching the source of the signal.

He moves with great care, in a half crouch, ready to leap back at any

second, prod extended, constantly glancing at the tracker.

The tracking device leads him right up to a small hatch or door in one

wall.

Behind his plastic mask, sweat is pouring down Faust's face as he sets

down the tracker and reaches for the little door.  He raises the prod,

grasps the door handle, yanks it open, and jams the electric prod

inside.

WITH A NERVE-SHATTERING SQUALL, A SMALL CREATURE COMES FLYING OUT OF

THE CABINET, EYES GLARING, CLAWS FLASHING.

Instinctively, they throw the net over it, but:

They open the net and release the creature.  IT IS THE CAT.  Hissing and

spitting, it scampers away.

Roby's COMMUNICATOR BEEPS.

They dash for the stairs.

Roby, Faust, and Melkonis charge down the hallways until they arrive

at:

Standard and Hunter are waiting for them, in hysterics.

On the other side of the door, CRASHING AND BANGING can be heard.

Again the thing can be heard CRASHING AROUND INSIDE.

He indicates a row of slots in the bottom of the door.

CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL THAT they are fastening a large funnel-

shaped device over the ventilator grill at the bottom of the door.

This funnel is attached to a thick hose, which runs back to a large

metal tank with pressure gauges.

They pull on gas masks.

Faust turns on the machine.  It begins to throb as it pumps the gas

through the hose and into the room.

Immediately, THE CRASHING NOISES RISE IN CRESCENDO, AND THE THING CAN

BE HEARD SCREECHING AND SQUEALING.

Then the sounds stop altogether.

Faust shuts off the pump.

Standard steps to the door and opens it.  A thick cloud of gas billows

out.

The room is thick with the poison gas.  The men look like insects in

their gasmasks.

The food packages are ripped to shreds, and foodstuffs are scattered

all over the floor.

Carefully, the men poke through the garbage, net and prods raised.

Then Hunter points.

They all look where he is pointing.  In the wall, A VENTILATOR GRILL

HAS BEEN RIPPED OPEN.

They move to the shredded ventilator and shine their lights into it.

They head for the door.

They slam the door shut and seal it.

The screens are showing them a schematic of the ship's system of

ventilator shafts.

Hunter shrugs.

He tears five small sheets of paper from a pad on his console.  On one

of them, he draws a large X.  Then he wads each piece of paper into a

tiny little ball.

He rolls the paperballs between his hands and tosses them on the table

like dice.

Roby picks one up and unfolds it.  It is blank.

Melkonis picks up another and opens it.  Again blank.

Faust picks up a ball, and Standard immediately picks his own up.  They

are both blank.

They all look at Hunter, who has not yet unfolded his.

Hunter is strapping on an oxygen mask and a flame thrower.  Faust is

helping him.

Finally, Faust hands him a tracking device.

Hunter turns and climbs into the ventilator opening, which is just

large enough to crawl through.

It is completely dark in the shaft.  Hunter reaches up and turns on his

helmet light.  Then he switches on his radio.

Standard, Melkonis and Roby are spreading out the net.  We hear the hum

of huge cooling plants, and their hair ruffles.  Large airshafts run

off in different directions.

He begins to crawl forward into the narrow metal tunnel.  He turns a

corner.

After a couple more tight turns, THE TRACKER SUDDENLY BEEPS.

Hunter twitches.  He raises his flamethrower and FIRES A BLAST INTO THE

DARKNESS.  It roars loudly in the confined tube, and the air instantly

heats up.  Smoke drifts back into his face.  He begins to sweat.

Roby points to a large rectangular opening in one wall.

He throws a switch, and a large metal panel rises and seals off the

opening.

Melkonis is setting up a little portable unit with a screen on it.  The

screen shows a section of the ship's schematic.

They lift the net up, holding it in front of the opening.

Hunter is still crawling on hands and knees.  Up ahead, he can see that

the shaft takes an abrupt downward turn.

He crawls toward the down angle, then fires another blast from his

flamethrower.

Then he starts crawling down, head first.

When he is nearly upside-down, the shaft takes yet another turning

which puts him into a nearly impossible position, almost immobilized.

Then the tracker starts BEEPING LIKE CRAZY.

Frantically, he fumbles the flamethrower around, but the space is

narrow -- it is difficult maneuvering.  He hears a HISSING CRY up

ahead, and claws scrambling on metal.

Then he has the weapon into position, and sprays another lethal

flaming burst toward the sound.

Melkonis is staring at his screen.

Hunter is huddled against a wall of the shaft, clutching the

flamethrower.

He readies the flamethrower.

He and Roby heft their respective ends of the net, crouched to catch

the small creature when it darts out.  Melkonis picks up his electric

prod.

Melkonis reaches over and throws the switch.  The metal gate drops

down, opening up the shaft.

A SIX-FOOT MONSTROSITY STANDS IN THE OPENING.  GHASTLY BEYOND

IMAGINATION, SQUAMOUS, COVERED WITH TENTACLES, IT HOPS DOWN LIKE AN

OVER-SIZED BIRD AND GRABS MELKONIS IN RAZOR-SHARP TENTACLES.

Melkonis lets out a horrible shriek, and the thing grabs his head in

one claw and TWISTS IT OFF LIKE A MAN PULLING THE HEAD OFF A CHICKEN,

THEN THROWS IT TO THE FLOOR WITH AN AUDIBLE

CLUTCHING MELKONIS' BODY TIGHTLY AGAINST ITSELF, IT TURNS AND BOUNDS

DOWN THE HALL.  MELKONIS' HEADLESS BODY IS STILL KICKING AND STRUGGLING

AS THE MONSTER LEAPS HEAD-FIRST INTO ANOTHER AIR SHAFT.

Standard and Roby are left standing in shock.  After a moment, Hunter

climbs out of the shaft.

They break from their paralysis, and run toward the opening the

creature just leaped into.  It is another shaft, going down into

darkness.

Faust is still waiting.

Faust lets himself out of the food storage room and carefully locks

the door behind him.

Standard, Roby and Hunter are rapidly ascending toward the bridge.

Standard, Roby and Hunter enter and drop into chairs.  Faust follows

shortly.  They all look blank, stunned.

Roby begins to punch buttons; the photographs of the heiroglyphics

appear on some of the screens.

Out of meaningless geometric symbols on a wall, it has become possible

to recognize each stage in the alien's life cycle.

Faust quickly turns a couple of corners and then comes to an abrupt

halt when he notices that a DOOR LEADING TO THE LOWER DECKS HAS BEEN

WRENCHED OFF ITS HINGES.

He hesitates, uncertain what to do, then there is A SOUND FROM THE

DIRECTION OF THE AIR LOCK... AND THE INNER LOCK DOOR IS OPEN.

Faust hesitates and peers into the lock.

The creature is squatting in the middle of the floor, gnawing on a

bloody thigh bone.  It does not see Faust.

Stealthfully, dropping back into the shadows, Faust presses the wall

intercom and speaks into it.

Standard, Roby and Hunter are staring at the pictures.  The call from

Faust catches Standard in mid-sentence.

Standard hesitates, starts to frame a reply -- then changes his mind

and runs to his console -- and THROWS THE SWITCH.

With a mechanical whine, the inner door starts to close.  The creature

hears it and INSTANTANEOUSLY LEAPS OUT OF THE LOCK.

The creature comes flying out of the lock and DEALS FAUST A BACK-

HANDED BLOW, KNOCKING HIM ACROSS THE THRESHOLD OF THE AIR LOCK DOOR.

FAUST SCREAMS IN MORTAL AGONY AS THE INNER DOOR CLOSES ON HIS WAIST,

crushing him to a thickness of about three inches.

On the wall, a green light goes on:

Despite the fact that the inner door is still held open a few inches

by Faust's squashed body, THE OUTER DOOR BEGINS TO SLIDE OPEN.

IMMEDIATELY, THERE IS A TREMENDOUS SCREAM OF ESCAPING AIR.

In dead silence, a thick spurt of steam comes out of the open air lock

door.  This is the ship's atmosphere freezing as it squirts out into

the vacuum under pressure.

INSTANTLY, A TREMENDOUS WINDSTORM STARTS UP as the ship's air is

sucked out toward the lock.

A SIREN BEGINS TO SOUND, AND A RED LIGHT FLASHES:

After a moment of panic and confusion, Roby bolts out of the control

room.

Loose papers and articles of furniture hurtle through the passageways,

as Roby hurries toward the rock, partly running, partly sucked along

by the air current.

A huge plume of steam grows from the side of the ship, with all kinds

of tiny loose particles tumbling out in it.

Whipped by the hurricane wind, Roby crashes to a momentary halt

against a wall.  As he hesitates there, trying to regain his balance,

HE SEES THE CREATURE SCURRYING AWAY DOWN ANOTHER CORRIDOR.

Ignoring the monster, he pushes off from the wall and starts running

again.

Roby stops himself by grabbing the edge of a doorway at the end of the

hall down from the airlock.  Here, the wind is really terrific -- his

clothes flap on his body and all kinds of things fly by -- the sound

is a DEAFENING WHISTLE.

Instantly, Roby starts turning a large wheel, which begins to close a

sliding hatch door, closing off the air lock corridor.  As the hatch

closes, THE CURRENT DECREASES, THEN IS FINALLY CUT OFF AS HE SEALS IT.

Done in, he collapses to the floor.

Then he clutches his throat and begins to gasp for breath.  Because of

the thinness of the air, THE SOUND LEVEL IN THE SHIP IS VERY ODD --

THIN, DISTANT, ALMOST INAUDIBLE.  Roby is gasping loudly, but we can

barely hear him; and his footsteps boom thinly like a man walking

underwater.

Clutching his throat, he comes across the others -- Standard and

Hunter -- and they are all choking, clawing at their throats, gasping

like fishes out of water.  They are sweating heavily and their noses

bleed.

They try to speak to each other, but the sound is so muffled we can

only hear distant croaks.

Standard mumbles something and stumbles down the hall.  The others

follow him.

The door bursts open and Standard reels in, his footsteps pinging

thinly on the metal flooring.  We see several rows of large oxygen

tanks, all connected by hoses to a few petcocks.

Standard staggers to these and starts twisting the handles, opening

them.  THERE IS A PIERCING HISS OF ESCAPING AIR, AND THE SOUND LEVEL

GRADUALLY RETURNS TO NORMAL as Standard and the others sink to the

floor, gasping in the oxygen gratefully.

Finally they have recovered enough to be able to sit up.

Standard rises unsteadily and peers at the gauges.

Faust's body, crushed in the inner door, floats weightlessly in the

vacuum.  His nose and mouth are crusted with huge gobs of dried blood.

The three survivors -- Standard, Roby and Hunter -- slump into chairs.

The cat emerges from a hiding place, yowling with fear.

They think.

The three men come down steps into this rather dirty area of the ship.

A lot of tools and large items of machinery are stored around.

LONG RACKS OF SHELVES ARE STOCKED WITH METAL CONTAINERS OF VARIOUS

SHAPES.  Each container is well packed and labelled.

Hunter begins to unlock a locker and draw out long, red sticks like

broomhandles, with tiny printing on them.

Meanwhile, ROBY IS STARING AT THE ROWS OF METAL CANNISTERS.  He touches

one of them.

Hunter takes an armload of the red broomsticks, and stumbles.

They begin to carry the explosives up the steps.

The three men are carrying their equipment along the hallway, when

Hunter's tracker suddenly BEEPS.

They all stop.  The tracker BEEPS AGAIN.  Hunter puts down his stuff and

points the tracker around.

They all look at each other.  Standard puts down his bundle and picks

up the flamethrower.

Standard hefts the flamethrower and starts up the steps.

Standard's face is tense as he advances up the circular steps.

Suddenly, a METALLIC TAPPING SOUND is heard.  He freezes.

Then he continues up.

The view of interstellar space is spectacular.  As Standard comes up

the steps, the METALLIC TAPPING is heard again.

Standard looks around.  Then he sees it -- BROUSSARD'S CORPSE FLOATS

OUTSIDE THE GLASS OF THE DOME.  It is tangled in some rigging, and the

movement of the machinery causes the cadaver to tap on the glass

periodically.

The others come up the steps.

Broussard's corpse is blue and bloated where the wrappings have torn

loose.  Bumping against the glass, he looks like he wants to come in.

Glancing back, the men retreat from the observation dome.  Broussard

remains against the glass, peering in with dead eyes.

The floor slopes upward slightly here as the corridor funnels in and

ends in the entrance to a narrow passageway or crawl-way.  This

passageway connects the nose of the ship with the lifeboat.

The three men come up to the entrance to the passageway, carrying the

equipment.  They duck in and walk the short distance to the lifeboat.

The passageway connects into the rear of the lifeboat.  It is an

extremely simple, stripped-down vehicle; even the metal struts and

beams-are exposed.  A single hypersleep freezer takes up a fair amount

of floor space.  It is an escape-craft, nothing more.

They begin to stack the red broomsticks against the base of the walls

on both sides of the lifeboat, and to wire them into position tightly.

By this time, they are exiting.

INSERT: THREE CRUMPLED PIECES OF PAPER.  Three hands pick them up.

ANGLE ON ROBY.  He unfolds his paper, turns it so the others can see

it.  It has a big X on it.

ANOTHER ANGLE - SHORTLY LATER.  Hunter is showing Roby a small device

like a transistor radio.

Hunter's face twitches nervously at this.

They leave the nose of the ship, Standard carrying the flamethrower,

Hunter the tracker.

Roby settles himself at the controls, runs through them briefly to

familiarize himself.  Using a switch, he opens and closes the lifeboat

door a couple of times.  It slams open and shut quite rapidly.

He presses a few buttons and sets the launch button to "READY."

Then STANDARD'S VOICE comes from the communicator:

This is a VERY SPOOKY SCENE, ROBY ALONE BY THE LIFEBOAT, LISTENING TO

THE VOICES ON THE COMMUNICATOR.

Roby hears various tinny sound effects, rustlings, clunkings,

breathing, etc.

Standard has the flamethrower at the ready, and Hunter is staring at

the tracker.

Carefully, Standard advances down the corridor.  Then THE CREATURE POPS

OUT OF HIDING

HUNTER SCREAMS.

Standard whirls around, sees the thing clutching Hunter.  It holds him

off to one side, as though to keep Standard from getting at him.

Standard doesn't know what to do.

At that moment the creature TAKES A BITE OUT OF HUNTER, WHO SCREAMS IN

MORTAL AGONY.

Standard can take it no longer; he raises the flamethrower and fires

-- BUT THE CREATURE SWINGS HUNTER AROUND AS A SHIELD AND HUNTER

CATCHES THE FULL BLAST OF THE FLAME.

Standard instantly stops firing, but now Hunter is a kicking ball of

flame, held out at arm's length by the monster.

Roby is listening to all this on the communicator.  He can hear the

shrieks and crashing noises.

Then the communicator goes dead, and all he hears is a rush of static.

He waits quite a while for a response, but we can see from his

expression that he expects none.

He drops his face into his hands.  When he lifts his head again, he has

managed to summon a certain amount of resolve.

Roby walks along watching the tracker, carrying a pistol in the other

hand.  He comes across Standard's flamethrower, lying on the floor.  He

picks it up, substituting it for the pistol.

Then he continues to follow the tracker; it takes him down the steps

into the maintenance level.

Roby follows the device for a short distance until it indicates that

the source of the signal is directly under his feet.  Looking down, he

sees that he is standing on a square metal plate.

Getting down on his hands and knees, he removes the heavy plate,

revealing a black opening with a ladder going down.

Substituting the tracker for a flashlight, but still carrying the

flamethrower, Roby starts down the ladder.

Shining the light around into the darkness, Roby descends the metal

ladder to the floor.

THE PLACE IS A HORRIBLE LAIR, FULL OF BONES, HAIR, SHREDS OF FLESH,

PIECES OF CLOTHING, AND SHOES.

Something moves in the darkness -- Roby turns his light on it.

HANGING FROM THE CEILING IS A HUGE COCOON.  It appears to be woven from

some fine, white, silk-like material, and it is slowly undulating.

Flamethrower ready, Roby approaches the cocoon.  As he gets close

enough, he sees that the cocoon is semi-transparent and THE BODY OF

STANDARD IS INSIDE IT.

Unexpectedly, Standard's eyes open, and focus on Roby -- who jumps

violently.

Roby turns his light where Standard indicates.  Another cocoon dangles

from the ceiling, but this one looks a little different.  It is smaller

and darker, with a harder shell.  In fact, it looks almost EXACTLY LIKE

THE SPORES IN THE TOMB.

Roby stares at him in horror, then bends down and takes a closer look

at him.  REACTING, he straightens back up, raises the flamethrower, and

sprays a molten blast.  When the entire room is in flames, he turns and

scrambles back up the ladder.

Roby drops to his knees and gasps for breath, trying not to throw up.

At length, he regains control of himself.

The SNARK appears to hang motionless, with planets and star clusters

rolling past in the infinite distance.

Roby is putting the cat into a metal, vacuum-sealed catbox, with a

little oxygen tank on it.

He seals the catbox, then turns on the oxygen.  There is a faint hiss

of pressurized air.  Wild-eyed, the cat peers out of a little window in

front.  It YOWLS.

He picks up the pressurized catbox and leaves the bridge.

Carrying the catbox and a shoulder bag (and of course the

flamethrower), Roby goes quickly to the nearest rank of metal

cannisters.

Putting the invaluable cannister into the shoulder bag, he hurries

back up the steps.

Catbox in one hand, flamethrower in the other, Roby enters the engine

room, containing the massive stardrive engines.

He puts down his parcels and approaches the main control board for the

engines.  Studying the instructions, he begins to close switches, one

by one.

A SIREN BEGINS TO HONK THROUGHOUT THE SHIP.

Finally Roby closes the last switch.  Shaking with nervousness, he

hurriedly picks up catbox, bag and flamethrower and hurries out of the

engine room.

Roby hurries on, listening to the siren.

Roby comes hustling up to where the lifeboat is berthed.  Hands full,

he starts to enter the connecting passageway.

THE CREATURE IS WAITING AT THE OTHER END OF THE PASSAGEWAY, INSIDE THE

LIFEBOAT.

It HISSES and starts toward him.

Roby leaps out of the passageway, bounds to the controls, and throws

the switch.  The hatch door SLAMS SHUT, locking the thing in the

lifeboat.

Indecisive, Roby stares at the lifeboat "LAUNCH" button.  The thing can

be heard fumbling around in the passageway.

Finally, he turns and bolts back toward the engine room.

Like a maniac, Roby runs through the ship, level after level, pounding

down stairwells, his footsteps clanging metallically throughout the

ship as he sprints for the engine room.

The door crashes open and Roby comes running in.  The room is full of

smoke and the engines are whining dangerously.  It is extremely hot in

the room; Roby instantly breaks out in sweat.

He runs to controls and begins throwing back on the cooling unit

switches.

Still THE SIREN CONTINUES.

Roby pushes a button and speaks into it.

A look of terror comes onto Roby's face.  He turns and runs from the

engine room.

Again, Roby must run through all the levels of the ship, this time

Reeling, gasping for breath, Roby staggers into the vestibule where

the lifeboat is berthed.  He grabs the flamethrower and turns it toward

the passageway.

It is then he realizes that THE LIFEBOAT DOOR IS OPEN AGAIN.

Quickly, he glances around to see if the creature might be behind him.

Then he advances on the passageway.

Dripping with sweat, his face a mask of fear, Roby enters the

passageway, flamethrower gripped tightly in his hands.  He is goaded on

by the siren and the computer:

He makes it all the way to the end of the passageway, then sticks his

head into the lifeboat.

HIS POINT-OF-VIEW as he quickly scans the lifeboat, reveals that it is

EMPTY.

Immediately, he turns and dashes back to the head of the passageway.

There he grabs the catbox and bag, then runs back into the lifeboat.

He comes in on the run, hurls the catbox and bag toward the front, and

does a dive over the back of the control chair.  He is no sooner in the

seat than he hits the "LAUNCH" button.

The retainer clips drop away, and with a blast of ramjets, THE

LIFEBOAT IS LAUNCHED AWAY FROM THE "SNARK."

Roby is frantically strapping himself in, as the lifeboat accelerates

away from the mother ship.

The tiny pod of the lifeboat accelerates away from the larger bulk of

the SNARK.  The scene is strangely serene for such deadly

circumstances.

Roby finishes strapping himself in, then he reaches and grabs the

catbox.  The cat is YOWLING.  Roby hugs the box to his chest and hunches

his head down over it.

The SNARK drifts ever farther away as the lifeboat leaves it behind,

until it is barely a point of light.

THEN IT BLOWS UP.

AN EXPANDING ORANGE FIREBALL WITH PIECES OF METAL FLYING IN ALL

DIRECTIONS.

The shockwave hits the escape craft, jolting it and rattling

everything inside.  Then all is quiet.

Roby unhooks himself from his straps, rises, and goes to the back of

the lifeboat.  He stares out through the porthole.  His face is bathed

in orange light.

What he sees is the boiling fireball, now fading and fizzling away

into nothingness, and a couple of pieces of debris floating past.

Roby's expression is mournful as he watches the final obliteration of

his ship and friends.

BEHIND HIM, THE CREATURE EMERGES FROM SOME HIDING PLACE -- IT HAS BEEN

INSIDE THE LIFEBOAT ALL ALONG.

The cat SCREECHES.

Roby whirls, and finds himself facing the thing across the length of

the boat.  It squats, then pulls out its trophy -- a man's arm.

It begins to eat the arm, watching Roby.

His first thought is for the flamethrower -- unfortunately, it lies on

the floor right next to the monster.  Next he glances around for any

place to hide.  His eye falls on a tiny locker containing a space suit,

with the door standing open.

He begins to edge toward the locker.  The creature rises.  He freezes.

It throws down the arm.  With that, Roby dives for the open locker

door, hurls himself inside, and slams the door shut.

There is a clear glass panel in the door, and the thing puts its face

right up to the glass, peering in at Roby.  The locker is so small that

Roby's face is only inches away from the creature's.  The sight is

disgusting.  It turns its head, looking at him in curiosity.

Then the MOANING OF THE CAT distracts it.

The creature waddles over to where the pressurized catbox sits.  It

bends down and peers inside.  The CAT YOWLS LOUDER.

It picks up the catbox in its tentacles.

Trying to distract the monster away from the cat, Roby TAPS ON THE

GLASS.

But the monster reacts so fast that its face is instantly back at the

glass, startling the hell out of Roby.

Getting no more interference from him, the thing returns to the

catbox.

Roby looks around.  He spies the spacesuit.  Quickly, he begins to pull

it on.

The creature picks the catbox up in its tentacles and shakes it to see

if there is anything inside.  The cat MOANS.

Roby is halfway into the pressure suit.

The creature throws the catbox down.  It clangs, and bounces.  The thing

picks it up again and hammers it against the wall.  Then it jams it

into a crevice in the wall.

With one tentacle, it begins to pound the sealed catbox into the

crevice.  The cat has gone beyond hysterics.

Roby pulls on the helmet, latches it into place, then turns on the

oxygen.  With a hiss, the suit fills itself.

In a rack on the wall is a long metal rod with a blunt rubber tip.

Roby peels the rubber off, revealing a sharp steel point.

Again he raps on the glass.

The creature turns.  It faces the locker, peers at him.

HE KICKS THE DOOR OPEN.

The creature rises, but just in time to catch THE STEEL SHAFT RIGHT

THROUGH ITS MIDRIFF.

IT MAKES A HORRIBLE NOISE AND CLUTCHES AT THE SPUR.  The yellow acid

begins to flow from the wound.

Before the acid can touch the floor, Roby reaches back and pulls a

switch -- BLOWING THE REAR HATCH.

In a poof, the tiny atmosphere in the lifeboat is sucked out into

space -- and the bleeding creature along with it.  Roby grabs a steel

strut to keep from being sucked out, but as the creature passes him IT

WRAPS THE END OF A TENTACLE AROUND HIS ANKLE.

Roby is now hanging halfway out of the lifeboat, with the thing

clinging to his leg.  He kicks at it with his free foot, but it won't

let go.

Looking for any salvation, Roby grabs the hatch control lever and

yanks it.

The hatch slams shut, closing Roby safely inside but TRAPPING THE END

OF THE CREATURE'S TENTACLE IN THE DOORJAMB.

It instantly releases Roby, who staggers back.

The creature is now outside the lifeboat, in the vacuum, squirming,

the tip of its tentacle caught in the closed hatch.

Where the tentacle is caught in the hatch, it is wounded, and is

starting to foam with acid, eating away at the metal.

Roby stumbles forward to the controls and pushes a lever labeled:

The jet exhausts are located at the rear of the craft, right where the

creature is wriggling.  THE ENGINES BELCH FLAME FOR A FEW SECONDS, THEN

SHUT OFF.

INCINERATED, THE CREATURE TUMBLES SLOWLY AWAY INTO SPACE.

Roby hurries to the rear hatch and looks out after the thing.

The burned mass of the monster drifts slowly away into space, a

writhing, smoking, foaming mass.

As it tumbles into the distance, pieces drop off it -- it bloats --

then bursts, soggily, sending a spray of particles off in all

directions.  The last we see of it is a few smouldering rags, dwindling

into infinity.

The boat is re-pressurized and Roby is seated in the control chair.  He

seems calm and composed, almost cheerful.  The cat purrs in his lap.

He reaches down into the carrying bag he brought on board, and pulls

out the ALIEN SKULL.

He puts the skull down on a shelf and locks a glass lid over it.

Roby leans forward and switches off the recorder.  Then he rises and,

carrying the cat, walks to the hypersleep freezer, which stands open.

He climbs in and stretches out on his back, holding the cat against

his chest.  With one hand, he presses a switch, and THE LID CLOSES OVER

HIM.

CLOSE-UP OF THE ALIEN SKULL, watching sentinel over the slumbering

Roby like some dead, melancholy pixie.

The lifeboat -- SNARK 2 -- sails away toward its rendezvous with Irth,

250 years from now.

As SNARK 2 drifts past camera, we suddenly see that A SPORE POD IS

ADHERED TO THE UNDERBELLY OF THE CRAFT.

ROLL END TITLES & MUSIC.

