EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

A dense forest on a dark, misty night.

YOUNG EDWARD CARNBY (age 10), small, thin, and terrified,

runs for his life.

under branches, not stopping for anything, GASPING for

breath. He doesn't turn to look behind him. He just runs as

fast as he can.

P.O.V. CREATURE:

Tomething chases Young Edward through the dark forest. Its

P.O.V. is skewed, inhuman. It is gaining on him.

As Young Edward runs, beams of light become visible through

the closely packed trees. Something is up ahead, something

bright. Edward runs towards it.

Young Edward bursts out into a clearing in the woods, running

towards the bright light.

P.O.V. CREATURE:

The light stops whatever is chasing Young Edward at the edge

of the forest. What is making the light isn't visible, only

Young Edward's silhouette running towards the blinding light.

EXT. FOREST - LATER THAT NIGHT

SUPER: 20 YEARS AGO

The beams of a dozen flashlights cut through the mist of the

dark forest.

A dozen uniformed DEPUTIES move through the forest, shining

their flashlights around, searching.

flashlight beams can barely penetrate it.

EXT. ORPHANAGE - NIGHT                                           2

A large and stately old house stands on the edge of town. A

small, dense forest stretches out behind it.

The sign on the front reads: OUR LADY OF PERPETUAL LIGHT

ORPHANAGE.

CONTINUED:

Several patrol cars are parked along the Orphanage's gravel

driveway. DEPUTIES mill around the front lawn.

Another patrol car pulls up. Out of it steps the SHERIFF

(late 40s). DEPUTY ADAMS (mid-30s) approaches him.

SISTER CLARA (mid-40s), an anxious-looking nun, stands on the

front porch, wrapped in a shawl. She speaks with two

DEPUTIES. The Sheriff walks up and listens in.

EXT. FOREST - LATER

The Deputies sweep through the forest with their flashlights.

The trees are close together, blocking out the moonlight. A

thick mist hangs in the trees.

As Deputy Adams moves through the forest, he sees a bright

light streaming through the trees up ahead.

EXT. FOREST CLEARING

Deputy Adams comes through the trees and emerges into a

clearing in the woods.

He sees a Shed in the clearing up ahead. A bright light is

posted over the Shed's front entrance.

EXT. SHED - MOMENTS LATER                                        4

Deputy Adams shines his flashlight around the outside of the

Shed.

He sees that the door is open just a crack. On the door is a

sign marked: DANGER, along with the symbol for ELECTRICITY.

INT. SHED - MOMENTS LATER

Deputy Adams enters the Shed.

SCENES 9 TO 12 OMITTED

Carnby's taxi accelerates down the street, pulling away from

Pinkerton's taxi.

As soon as it's evident that they are on to him, Pinkerton's

taxi speeds up to give chase.

The two taxis rocket down the streets, swerving past cars,

SCREECHING around corners.

Carnby's taxi speeds down the streets, narrowly avoiding

collisions with other cars and PEDESTRIANS.

Pinkerton just plows through whatever's in his way, SMASHING

past other cars, forcing Pedestrians to jump out of the way.

Pinkerton accelerates and tries to force Carnby's taxi off

the road. The taxi's GRIND against one another.

Carnby's taxi SCREECHES around a corner, speeding into a side

street that leads to the Market Street.

CONTINUED:

Pinkerton leaps at Carnby. Carnby FIRES again. But Pinkerton

dodges the bullet and it hits a block of ice, SHATTERING it

in a hail of ice shards.

Pinkerton rolls with his dodge and races off into the stacks

of ice blocks.

Carnby tries to track Pinkerton's movements through the ice

stacks. He hears the sound of Pinkerton MOVING, but can't see

him. His gun is ready. He searches around.

Suddenly, there's a RUSH of movement behind him. Carnby

dodges just as Pinkerton's fist comes flying out. Pinkerton

connects with an ice block, SHATTERING it.

Carnby is backed into a dead end in the Ice Factory. He turns

to face Pinkerton, gun ready.

But Pinkerton is on him too quickly. He lunges at Carnby,

hoisting him over his head and SLAMMING him down on a

conveyer belt.

Pinkerton drags Carnby along the conveyer belt. But Carnby

grabs a hanging chain to steady himself. With a quick kick,

Carnby uses the momentum to flip Pinkerton over him.

Pinkerton flies through the air towards a large ice pick

wedged into the wall. The sharp point of the ice pick punches

right through Pinkerton's torso, impaling him. He is

immediately killed.

Carnby leans up against the wall, steadying himself. He pulls

the stone carving out of his pocket to check it. In the

fight, the carving has been cracked into pieces.

But the broken carving reveals something hidden inside it, a

small gold artifact that was concealed in the carving.

The artifact is a gold circle, flat on the top and bottom,

its thick round side engraved with intricate Abkani symbols.

This is the lynchpin artifact, the piece which connects the

other artifacts together.

EXT. MUSEUM - DAY

The elegant Museum of Natural History. A wide staircase leads

up to an entranceway surrounded by stone pillars.

Over the front of the Museum hangs a large banner reading:

"SECRETS OF THE ANCIENT ABKANI  COMING SOON".

INT. MUSEUM/MAIN HALL - DAY

The high-ceilinged Main Hall of the Museum. Glass display

cases are set up to showcase archeological artifacts.

ALINE CEDRAC (late 20s), studious but dynamic, stands in

front of a display case. She carries a clipboard.

A heavy-set GUARD (early 50s) approaches, followed by a

DELIVERY GUY (late 20s), who hauls in a crate on a dolly.

Aline checks her clipboard.

The Delivery Guy reads the information on his clipboard.

Aline picks up a crowbar and approaches the crate.

CONTINUED:

Aline pries open the lid of the crate with the crow-bar. Out

of the packing foam, Aline lifts up a heavy stone tablet

carved with elaborate Abkani symbols. Aline holds it up,

fascinated.

Aline pleasant expression suddenly turns awkward.

Aline quickly walks off, taking the stone tablet with her.

Delivery Guy shakes his head at the Guard.

EXT. SHIP DECK - DAY

A large Ship out on the open sea.

CONTINUED:

CREWMEN scurry around the deck attending to a huge crane that

hangs over the side of the Ship. Chains leads from the crane

into the water.

DR. LIONEL HUDGENS (mid-60s), wiry and severe with a sharp

intelligence, stands on the deck with CAPTAIN CHERNICK (late

40s). They look down at the water.

EXT. WATER SURFACE

Two DIVERS in high-tech Newt Suits break the surface. They

signal to Captain Chernick.

EXT. SHIP DECK

Hudgens nods to Captain Chernick.

Captain Chernick signals to his Crewmen.

The crane is engaged. The chains run through the mechanism of

the crane, pulling something to the surface.

The crane GROANS under the weight. Captain Chernick looks

nervous as the crane SHUDDERS with the strain.

EXT. WATER SURFACE

Out of the ocean, the crane raises a large, heavy container.

The container is about eight feet long. It is battered and

damaged by the ocean water, and covered in barnacles.

INT. CARNBY'S LOFT - DUSK

Carnby unlocks the multiple locks on the front door to his

Loft and enters.

CONTINUED:

As Carnby walks through the Loft, he passes his answering

machine. The MESSAGES indicator blinks. Carnby presses the

button to retrieve his messages.

The Loft is a large, incredibly cool-looking space.

In one corner is a lab area filled with high-tech scientific

equipment. At another work station, dozens of drawings, maps,

and photos are spread out next to a flat-screen computer. A

few photos are tacked to a corkboard.

Several bookshelves, all crammed with books, line one wall. A

old framed photograph sits on a bookshelf, a faded photo of

twenty CHILDREN sitting on the front steps of the Orphanage.

Sister Clara stands with them. Young Edward sits to one side.

A weapons cabinet features racks lined with guns and blade

weapons. In another corner is a work-out area.

The sleek, modern kitchen and living quarters are in another

corner. The bed is set up against a wall of large windows.

Outside the windows, the sun is setting.

Approaching the lab area, Carnby takes out the lynchpin

artifact. He turns it around in his fingers, watching the

light glint off it.

EXT. DOCKS - NIGHT

The Ship is docked at a mist-enshrouded pier. Overhead lights

along the dock illuminate the area.

A transport truck is parked on the Dock just next to the

Ship's loading ramp.

In front of the ramp, five CREWMEN with automatic weapons

stand guard, smoking and looking vigilant.

CONTINUED:

Crewman Barnes SMASHES Hudgens' head against the container.

Hudgens is dazed from the blow.

Crewman Barnes throws the dazed Hudgens into a Storage Room

built onto the Deck. He slams the thick metal door closed.

The door has a small, glass-covered peephole built into it.

Chernick pries open the lock with the crowbar. Chernick hands

the First Mate the crowbar and he jams it into the handle of

the door, wedging it closed.

INT. SHIP STORAGE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Hudgens struggles to his feet. He BANGS on the door, trying

to pull it open.

EXT. SHIP DECK - CONTINUOUS

The First Mate and Crewman Barnes watch in fasciation as

Captain Chernick prepares to open the gold container.

He opens the container.

With a deep SIGH, the vacuum of dry air escapes.

INT. CARNBY'S LOFT - AT THAT MOMENT

Carnby sits in front of his computer. He scans through

screens of information relating to Abkani civilization.

Carnby suddenly winces in intense pain. He clutches his head,

staggering to his feet. He knocks over a desk lamp and a

chair as he stumbles back.

CONTINUED:

Out of the three drawers, a LOW HUM is emitted. Aline looks

up, tilting her head to hear the LOW HUMMING.

She turns around to face the shelving units. She is surprised

to see the strange glow coming out of the three drawers.

She cautiously approaches the shelving units. She reaches a

hand out to open the first glowing drawer.

EXT. SHIP DECK - AT THAT MOMENT

As the First Mate and Crewman Barnes watch in anticipation,

Captain Chernick opens the gold container all the way.

The container is empty.

The lights along the Deck start to flicker.

INT. SHIP STORAGE ROOM

The lights in the Storage Room start to flicker on and off.

Hudgens looks up at the lights.

INT. SHIP DECK

Storage Room door. He looks back at the First Mate and

Crewman Barnes.

The First Mate and Crewman Barnes pull out revolvers. They

approach the Storage Room door.

There's a WHOOSH of movement behind them. The three men all

turn, surprised. But nothing is there.

Suddenly, Captain Chernick is thrown back by something

invisible. He is hoisted into the air. He looks shocked.

Captain Chernick seems to be floating just above the ground,

although it is clear something invisible is holding him up.

CONTINUED:

The First Mate and Crewman Barnes look on, stunned, their

revolvers aimed at the floating Captain.

Captain Chernick's body contorts, as if something had been

thrust into it. With a burst of blood, a hole is ripped into

his torso, killing him.

Captain Chernick's lifeless body is dropped to the ground.

Terrified, the First Mate and Crewman Barnes aim their

INT. SHIP STORAGE ROOM

Hudgens stands at the door, listening to the GUNFIRE.

He looks through the peephole in the door. The peephole is

dirty, hard to see through. Something frantic is happening

outside the door, but it's hard to see exactly what.

There is more GUNFIRE and then SCREAMING. Short BURSTS of

AUTOMATIC GUNFIRE follow, and more SCREAMING.

And then, all is quiet.

Hudgens grabs a discarded metal rod and jams it into the door

handle, wedging it closed. He backs away from the door. The

only weapon he can see is a box-cutter. He grabs it, holding

it out in front of him.

Suddenly, there's a CRASH at the door. Something pushes at

the door, trying to get in. The door RATTLES and THUMPS from

the impact.

Hudgens, still holding the box-cutter, strains against the

door, using all the effort he can muster to keep it shut. The

metal rod wedged against the door is starting to buckle.

Suddenly, the door is still. Hudgens waits. Nothing.

There's a CRASH as another impact hits the door. The RACKET

is even more intense. But the door holds.

Finally, the thrashing stops. All is quiet again.

The lights in the Storage Room stop flickering. They come

back on. Hudgens listens, straining to hear anything at all.

Cautious, Hudgens pulls away the metal rod. He gingerly

touches the door. With a long CREAK, it slowly swings open.

The crowbar was shaken loose from all the impacts.

CONTINUED:

INT. SHIP DECK - CONTINUOUS

Hudgens steps out of the Storage Room. He looks around the

Deck. Mist blows in off the water. The night is quiet.

Bodies lie everywhere, Captain Chernick, the First Mate,

Crewman Barnes, the other Crewmen. Their weapons lie next to

their slashed, ripped open bodies.

Bullet holes are pocked around the Deck. Streaks of blood are

smeared everywhere. Shell casings and corpses are all that

remain of the battle.

Tense, carefully looking around, Hudgens walks up to the

empty gold container.

He reaches into it, pressing a concealed panel at the back of

the container.

The panel opens, revealing a small artifact. The artifact is

a thin hollow cylinder with a thick little protrusion on one

end. It is covered in Abkani symbols.

Hudgens takes out the artifact. He turns it around in his

hand. He looks pleased.

INT. BUREAU 713/HALLWAY - NIGHT

Everything in Bureau 713's Headquarters looks sleek and high-

tech. There are no windows anywhere.

COMMANDER BURKE (late 30s) strides purposefully down the

hallway. He is confident to the point of arrogance.

His second-in-command, AGENT MILES (mid-30s), driven and

efficient, hurries to keep up.

CONTINUED:

Burke and Miles arrive at the Control Room. Burke nods to two

BUREAU GUARDS standing at the entrance.

Burke stops and looks at Agent Miles for the first time.

Agent Miles opens the door to the Control Room.

INT. BUREAU 713 HEADQUARTERS/CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Inside the Control Room, the banks of monitors and sensors

are all lit up. Streams of data flow across the monitors.

Burke and Miles stand at the doorway.

AGENT "KRASH" KRASHINSKY (mid-30s), a cool and collected

female tech-geek, scans through data on the monitors. She

always wears a headset.

AGENT YONEK, a Control Room techie, adjusts the sensors.

Burke looks concerned for the first time.

INT. ORPHANAGE/DEN - NIGHT   - TWENTY YEARS AGO

Young Edward (age 10) walks through the Den. The lights are

all out. The Den is musty, but clean.

A sliver of light glows from underneath the doorway to Sister

Clara's bedroom. Young Edward KNOCKS softly on the door.

Sister Clara opens the door. She wears her nightgown.

INT. ORPHANAGE/CHILDREN'S ROOM - NIGHT - TWENTY YEARS AGO

Sister Clara throws open the door to one of the children's

bedrooms. Ten beds are lined up along the wall. All ten of

them have CHILDREN asleep in them.

Sister Clara GASPS, holding her hand to her mouth.

INT. CARNBY'S LOFT - DAY

Carnby lurches awake. He is still lying on the floor.

His cellphone is RINGING. Carnby gets to his feet, rubbing

his temples, trying to get his bearings. He answers his cell.

CONTINUED:

Carnby hangs up the phone.

Carnby has a list of nineteen names, the grown-up ORPHANS

from his Orphanage. Next to each name, Carnby has written a

note. Fourteen are missing. Five are unaccounted for so far.

Carnby writes a note next to the second-to-last name on the

list. Also missing. Four now unaccounted for.

On the work station is a stack of the Orphanage's worn-out

old file folders. Each file matches a name on the list.

The database finishes processing. It has found a match. A

MISSING PERSON REPORT flashes onscreen. It's the final name

of the list. Carnby makes a note next to the name.

Carnby hits PRINT and the report comes out of the printer. He

adds it to a small stack of similar reports.

Each report has a photo of a missing Orphan, both MALE and

FEMALE. One of the photos is of John Houghton.

Sixteen are missing. Three are unaccounted for.

EXT. RESTAURANT PATIO - DAY

The outdoor patio of a downtown Restaurant. Carnby sits with

a coffee and a cherry pie at a table for two.

AGENT PAUL FISCHER (mid-50s), precise but friendly,

approaches the table and sits down across from Carnby.

A WAITER walks up. He puts down a plate of pecan pie in front

of Fischer. The Waiter smiles and walks away.

Fischer gives Carnby a smirk.

Fischer takes a bite of the pecan pie.

Fischer pulls out a file and slides it across the table.

Carnby opens the file. Inside it are photos and reports on

the three remaining Orphans from Carnby's list.

CONTINUED:

Carnby gets up to leave. He picks up the file.

EXT. MUSEUM - DUSK

As the sun sets, the streetlights around the Museum all come

on in unison, bathing the area in a warm glow.

The lights are all on in the Museum.

INT. MUSEUM/ALINE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Aline sits at her desk, notes spread out in front of her. The

notes show various Abkani symbols. She writes down comments

in the margins.

The phone RINGS. Aline answers it.

CONTINUED:

But Hudgens has already hung up. Aline looks at the receiver,

frustrated. She hangs up the phone.

She looks up, tilting her head to hear FOOTSTEPS approaching.

The Guard KNOCKS on the open door.

INT. MUSEUM/MAIN HALL - DUSK

Aline exits quickly out of a service door, looking anxious.

The Guard scurries after her.

Carnby stands in front of the Security Desk.

Aline runs up and embraces Carnby. She holds him tightly.

Aline lets go. They hold eye contact.

Then, Aline rears back and PUNCHES Carnby in the face. Hard.

Carnby takes the hit, rubbing his jaw.

CONTINUED:

Carnby looks over at the Guard. The Guard pretends to read

his newspaper.

Carnby reaches into his pocket and takes out the lynchpin

artifact. Aline stares down at it, immediately fascinated.

INT. MUSEUM/ALINE'S OFFICE

Carnby stands with Aline at her desk, while she scans a 3-D

rendering of the lynchpin artifact into her computer.

Beat. Aline looks up at Carnby.

Aline picks up the lynchpin artifact, inspecting it. She runs

her fingers over the Abkani symbols carved into it.

CONTINUED:

INT. MUSEUM/CERAMICS ROOM

Aline and Carnby quietly come out a service door that leads

to the Ceramics Room. They conceal themselves behind a pair

of columns, scanning the area before they step out.

The lights are dim, with long shadows stretching out through

the area.

Aline is about to speak, but Carnby puts a finger to his

mouth and shakes his head, no.

The dead body of the Guard lies in a pool of blood on the

ground. There seems to be no one else around.

But then, silently, moving with a fluid grace, a XENOMORPH

CREATURE emerges out of the shadows.

The xenomorph creature is huge, terrifying. It is seven feet

tall, covered in thick, dark scales. It stands on two legs,

with long, powerful arms that end in razor-sharp claws and a

segmented, spiked tail poised behind it.

Its demonic head has black, sunken eyes and a severe jaw

lined with jagged, fang-like teeth. The head is identical to

the stone carving in which the lynchpin artifact was encased.

Carnby and Aline look shocked. They freeze, not moving a

muscle.

Another xenomorph creature steps out of the shadows.

The two creatures congregate in the middle of the room. They

are the same hulking, grotesque brutes.

The two creatures start to communicate. An unintelligible

language passes between them.

Suddenly, one of the creatures looks up, sensing something.

behind the columns.

The creature delivers a SHARP WHISPER.

And with that, the creature fades into invisibility. It has

totally disappeared.

The second creature immediately follows suit, also fading

invisible.

INT. MUSEUM/HALLWAY 2 - CONTINUOUS

Carnby steps out of the Storage Room, revolver ready. The

Hallway is empty.

Aline steps out behind him. She motions to the double-doors

at the end of the Hallway.

Carnby hands Aline the flashlight. He grips his revolver.

Carnby and Aline move down the Hallway towards the double-

doors. As they move, they listen intently. The only thing

they can hear is the sound of their FOOTSTEPS.

INT. MUSEUM/MAIN HALL

Aline and Carnby quietly open the double-doors leading into

the Main Hall.

The lights are dim. Moonlight streams in through the skylight

above them.

Aline shines the flashlight around. She hears a WHOOSH of

movement behind her and shines the flashlight towards it.

The sound of a quickly approaching HELICOPTER can be heard in

the distance.

The double-doors BURST open as an invisible creature SMASHES

through them.

It chases after them, knocking everything in its path out of

the way

Carnby and Aline run.

Up ahead of them, the second invisible creature comes

CRASHING through the display cases, heading right for them.

Carnby and Aline are trapped between the two invisible

creatures. They have nowhere to run.

The sound of a HELICOPTER rises up overhead.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly, powerful spotlights switch on, shining bright blue

beams through the skylight. Another set of spotlight beams

shine through the high windows lining the Main Hall.

EXT. MUSEUM - CONTINUOUS

A sleek black Bureau 713 helicopter hovers over the building.

A pair of spotlights shine beams down through the skylight.

INT. MUSEUM/MAIN HALL - CONTINUOUS

In a hail of shattered glass, AGENTS BARR (male), CHEUNG

(female), and MARKO (male) burst through the skylight,

rappelling down on zip-lines from the hovering helicopter.

mounted on the top. They all wear full Bureau 713 combat

gear, body armor with a headset comm-link and a helmet with a

dark visor mounted on it.

The creatures HISS in reaction and scramble out of the

spotlights from the helicopter.

The Agents immediately open FIRE. Their bullets glow with a

pulse of yellow light as they streak through the air.

All Carnby and Aline can see is the Agents shooting glowing

bullets into the unnaturally long shadows.

But the SQUEAL of one of the creatures shows that the Agents'

bullets have found their target.

As the glowing bullets hit the creature, it momentarily

flashes visible, then invisible again.

The two invisible creatures scatter, slipping away into the

shadows.

The Agents cut their zip-lines, dropping to the ground.

As they land, they all flip on their rifle-mounted lamps. The

bright blue beams cut through the darkness.

Their movements are precise, controlled. They all have their

rifles out, scanning the area.

Agent Barr has a high-tech scanning device attached to his

rifle. It is an updated version of Carnby's para-meter that

monitors the electromagnetic energy in the vicinity. It is

used to detect the presence of the xenomorph creatures.

CONTINUED:

Agents Cheung and Marko move through the double-doors into

the Hallway sweeping the area with their lamps, making sure

the creatures are gone.

EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

The lights around the Museum have come back on.

A pair of Bureau 713 Humvees are parked with large spotlights

set up in front of them, shining into the Museum.

combat gear, visors, and headset comm-links. Burke addresses

five AGENTS in combat gear.

The Agents stream into the Museum in formation. Burke and

Miles follow in after them.

INT. MUSEUM/MAIN HALL

The silhouettes of the five Agents, Burke, and Miles come

through the spotlight beams as they enter the Museum.

Burke strides up to Carnby and Aline, who stand with Agent

Barr. Miles follows after him.

CONTINUED: (2)

Fischer pulls the spinal-worm out of Pinkerton's open back

with a pair of tongs. It hangs limply, motionless.

The spinal-worm is long and thick, covered with hard, dark

scales. It has dozens of tiny clawed feet that were connected

to Pinkerton's spine.

faintly, still registering something. He looks at the read-

out, curious, then concerned.

Fischer runs the scanner over Pinkerton's corpse. Nothing.

Now Fischer looks even more concerned. He turns the scanner

on himself, running it up and down his torso. Nothing.

Fischer looks at Carnby. Carnby gets it. It might be him.

Fischer runs the scanner over Carnby's torso. The scanner

immediately starts BEEPING louder.

They exchange a look between them. Something's inside Carnby.

Aline sits at her desk, analyzing the 3-D scan she made of

the lynchpin artifact.

Hudgens demeanor is friendly, reassuring.

CONTINUED:

She spots Carnby's discarded trench-coat on the floor. She

walks up and picks it up with two fingers.

Aline hangs the coat on a hook. She enters the Loft proper,

looking around.

Aline stops. She sees Carnby lying on his bed, asleep. She

smiles. He looks peaceful.

Aline sees the lynchpin artifact sitting in the lab area. She

unpacks her bag, taking out three items wrapped in cloth. She

places the three items next to the lynchpin artifact.

She looks over at Carnby, sleeping in his bed.

Aline kicks off her shoes and walks over to the bed.

She climbs onto the bed, careful not to disturb Carnby. He

stirs a little, but he doesn't wake up. Aline lies down next

to Carnby on the bed. She notices the new scars and bruises

along his back.

Aline lays her head on a pillow. Their faces lie close

together. She watches Carnby sleep.

Aline leans over and gives Carnby the lightest of kisses. He

doesn't wake up.

Aline's eyes flutter closed, then open, then closed again.

Within seconds, she's asleep.

Burke stands behind Krash at the monitor banks, surveying the

incoming information.

CONTINUED:

Agent Miles holds the door open as Fischer enters. Miles

stands at the door, listening. Burke doesn't face Fischer.

Burke turns around to face Fischer.

Fischer weighs his answer.

The Kitchen is comfortable, lived in. Fischer's suit jacket

hangs on the back of a chair. His revolver and holster also

hang on the chair.

Fischer's wife, SARAH FISCHER (early 50s) stirs the contents

of a pot with a wooden spoon. Fischer makes a salad.

The doorbell RINGS.

Sarah hands Fischer the wooden spoon. She gives him a quick,

warm kiss. She exits the room.

Sarah Fischer hurries to the front door.

She checks her appearance in a mirror in the Foyer. She

touches her hair, purses her lips, and turns to the door.

She opens the front door, a pleasant expression on her face.

The lights in the Kitchen start to flicker. Fischer freezes,

listening. The House is quiet.

Fischer dives for the revolver hanging in his holster on the

chair. He pulls a container of glowing bullets out of the

pocket of his jacket.

The container spills on the floor. He scrambles to pick up

the bullets and load them into the revolver.

Fischer edges to the Kitchen door, listening, anxious.

Everything is quiet.

He quietly pushes open the door, revolver ready.

Fischer creeps into the Foyer. The lights flicker.

No one is in the Foyer. The front door is open.

No answer.

Something CRASHES to the ground in the Living Room.

Fischer quietly opens the door to the Living Room, gripping

his revolver tightly. He steps into the room.

The lights in the Living Room are out. A broken lamp lies

SMASHED on its side.

Fischer comes around the side of the couch. He stops,

shocked.

Sarah Fischer's dead body lies in a pool of blood.

CONTINUED: (5)

But the first thing they hear isn't a creature. It's the

sound of AUTOMATIC GUNFIRE.

Streaks of glowing bullets fly through the air.

It is a 713 unit, laying down suppressing FIRE as the Agents

enter the Loft through the broken front door.

Agents Barr, Cheung, and Marko enter, followed by five other

AGENTS. They all wear full 713 combat gear, their rifle-

mounted lamps illuminated, their weapons in use.

Krash monitors the 713 unit from the Control Room. Banks of

monitors stream data at her.

Krash speaks into her head-set comm-link, cool and collected.

The Agents FIRE glowing bullets through the dark Loft. There

are invisible creatures everywhere.

The muzzle FLASHES and glowing bullets pierce the darkness of

the Loft.

move around them, attacking the Agents with their razor-sharp

claws and spiked-tails.

P.O.V. CREATURE:

An invisible creature swoops out of the shadows towards an

Agent, who is FIRING in the opposite direction. The creature

whips past the Agent, slicing him open with a fluid slash of

its claws. The creature keeps moving directly for Carnby.

Carnby and Aline, standing together, FIRE their weapons in

the darkness, oblivious to the creature rushing towards them.

CONTINUED:

Aline approaches the spot where Carnby stands. She shines her

flashlight beam in the wiped off area. Faint Abkani symbols

are carved into the wall.

The Agents all start wiping away the cobwebs and dust,

examining the walls for more symbols. They all shine their

beams of light through the dark space, searching.

Cheung finds more Abkani symbols on another wall.

As Agent Marko moves through the space with his lamp, his

boot hits a small protrusion in the dusty ground. Agent Marko

shines his lamp down on ground. With his boot, he pushes away

the dust on the ground. There's a carving on the floor.

Agent Barr spots Marko and shines his lamp towards him.

Agent Marko presses down on the carving with his boot.

Suddenly, the stone floor beneath Agent Marko crumbles away,

revealing a deep circular Shaft.

Agent Marko can't hold on and he falls into the Shaft. He

SCREAMS as he falls.

The Shaft drops down sixty feet. Marko falls, unable to stop

his descent.

The Shaft walls are rough-hewn rock. Small fingers of lichen

grow out of the cracks in the stone. An ancient, fragile

wooden ladder is imbedded directly into the rock wall, its

rungs made of thick, knotted old branches.

O                                                              146B

CONTINUED:

Carnby approaches Aline in front of the Abkani symbols.

Carnby looks at the wall of human skulls.

Burke barks into his comm-link.

Beat. No response.

In the sand near Barr and Cheung, something moves.

Agent Miles and the other Agents watch the perimeter.

The flash-mine detonations are now much closer.

The Agents OPEN FIRE, letting loose a barrage of glowing

bullets. Streaks of light fill the night.

CONTINUED:

The sand worm tries to dodge the light. It snaps at Aline

with its jaws and lunges at her.

She grabs it by the torso, just under the snapping jaws. The

sand worm struggles, trying to bite Aline. She can barely

hold it away from her. Her grip starts to loosen.

The sand worm's snapping jaws are almost at Aline's face. She

strains to hold it away.

With the sound of a GUNSHOT, the sand worm's head explodes.

It flops to one side, dead.

Carnby stands behind it, his gun smoking from the shot.

A sand worm bursts out and chomps down on Cheung's bad foot.

She SCREAMS.

Barr SHOOTS the worm that bit Cheung. Cheung falls back, her

body seizing up from its poisonous bite.

Cheung's body contorts. Barr grabs her as Cheung's head reels

back and her body goes limp. She's dead.

Burke turns, his face grim. He OPENS FIRE on the sand worms.

With precision and intensity, he FIRES controlled bursts at

any movement under the sand.

Carnby FIRES along with him. After a few seconds, the

movement has stopped.

Aline, Carnby, Burke, and Barr stand together. They look down

at Cheung's body.

Over the comm-link, Burke can hear the sounds of the BATTLE

going on up above them.

The Agents FIRE streaks of glowing bullets into the night.

Flash-mines EXPLODE close by.

A creature leaps out at Agent Miles. He spins and opens FIRE.

The creature flashes visible as Miles riddles it with

bullets. The creature flails around, dying.

Creatures start leaping out at the Agents, jumping over the

Humvee barricades and slashing at Agents with their claws.

The Agents STRAFE every creature they see.

CONTINUED: (5)

The cracks splinter out, dividing, until they cover the

entire door. In a rush of fragments, the cracked gold

crumbles to the ground.

Hudgens steps through the doorway.

The doorway opens up into a vast Cave, hundreds of feet high

and wide, stretching off into darkness. The cave walls are

rough-hewn rock, untouched by human hands.

The walls of the Cave are marked with hundreds and hundreds

of tunnels, pocking the rock like a hive, leading off into

the depths of the mountain.

Hudgens moves into the Cave, tentative, but excited.

Suddenly, there's a SCRATCHING, SCURRYING sound.

A xenomorph creature emerges out of one of the tunnels.

Out of another tunnel comes a second xenomorph. And a third.

Across the vast cave, dozens of xenomorphs creep out of

individual tunnels.

Hudgens steps further into the Cave. The xenomorphs approach

him, their heads darting about.

The xenomorphs surround Hudgens on all sides. His steps are

careful. He reaches his hand out to one of the creatures.

T

The creature lunges at him, ripping into him with its teeth.

The other xenomorphs surrounding Hudgens pounce on him as

well. The creatures tear Hudgens apart.

Like a dam breaking, hundreds of xenomorphs start streaming

out of the hive-like tunnel system of the Cave.

Standing in the doorway, Aline sees the creatures coming.

Burke looks around the abandoned 713 lab.

The creatures are almost through the hangar doors. The gap is

just wide enough for one creature to stick its head through.

It SNAPS its jaws at Burke.

Burke presses the button on the detonator. The detonator

counts down: 3... 2... 1...

A tremendous EXPLOSION rocks the Shaft. A swirling geyser of

flame shoots up towards the top of the Shaft.

Carnby and Aline dive out of the Shaft just in time. The

geyser of flame erupts out of the Storm Cellar.

The shock-wave knocks them to the ground. A cloud of dust

swirls up out of the Shaft.

The Mine shakes from the explosion. Great clouds of dust and

rock fragments billow out of the Entrance Hall.

T

Aline and Carnby get to their feet outside the Storm Cellar.

Smoke pours out of the Shaft.

But as he sees where he really is, Carnby is stunned. He

stares up at the Orphanage.

Carnby and Aline walk through the Orphanage. It is clean,

well-maintained. But no one is there. The Orphanage is empty.

The door to the Children's Room is ajar. Carnby opens the

door.

