Andy's body is blown through the rear doors as the van

turns a corner.

He dials 911 on his cellular phone.     Fouchet sounds

distressed.

A stream of PD CARS haul past, lights blazing and SIRENS

on full.

Crowds moving up and down Ocean Blvd. Beautiful people

walking. Beautiful people watching. MUSIC BLENDS from

nightclub to nightclub. A POLICE RADIO, holstered to the

hip of a street cop. It CRACKLES with:

Slipping by the street cop: Intro MARCUS BURNETT and

MIKE LOWREY. They shimmy through the hotel doors.

Where the buffed DESK MANAGER gets off the phone to

greet the effeminate pair.

All three of them laugh.

Lowrey and Burnett clip on their shields and unholster

their guns. The posing is over. This is business.

On the table are two briefcases. Each opened. One

containing cocaine. The other, cash. A pistol next

to each.

REVEAL the dealers. Two young Dominicans seated across

from the TV, getting high, drinking beer and laughing out

loud at the Spanish language version of Time Traxx.

Then --

BANG! The door's kicked in and Lowrey's first through.

Burnett on backup.

But the dealers split, rolling out of their chairs.   One

goes left and the other, right.

Lowrey tackles the first dealer to the floor. A LATINA

girl screams. Lowrey unfortunately looks and takes a

hard fist across the ear from the dealer. Angered,

Lowrey swings his pistol up underneath the perp's jaw

and knocks him through the bathroom door. Lowrey cuffs

him to the sink. Meanwhile... Back to:

Burnett's in trouble. He's still got his gun in hand.

But the other dealer has him pinned underneath the legs

of a chair.

Burnett stomps the bad guy's instep. The guy buckles.

Burnett rolls away and stands in front of a window, just

in time to see the angry Dominican heading straight for

him.

Burnett   and the other dealer come crashing out onto the

balcony,   then over onto an awning, rolling off onto some

occupied   cafe tables. Patrons scatter. Uniformed cops

move in   to assist.

appears soon after, walking down the hotel steps, leading

the Latina in his cuffs, and wearing his jacket.

We TILT UP as POLICE HELICOPTER flies overhead.

As OPENING TITLES RUN and MUSIC POUNDS -- we FLY OVER the

causeways, waterways and hotels that line the beach.

Something is happening in the balmy city as we CRUISE

downtown and ZERO IN ON...

The HELICOPTER ROARS low over the rooftops toward the

causeway bridge.

As the helicopter passes over, he appears  from behind a

large exhaust port. Casper, Ferguson, and   Noah behind

him, all wearing high-tech miner's helmets  with built-in

radio headsets, and an array of high-tech  tools.

The team crosses the roof to a huge air conditioning

unit. They climb inside, carrying a six-foot-long metal

case and what looks like a black scuba tank.

Though it's windy and cramped in here, at least it's

cool. From a prone position, Fouchet puts on his night

vision goggles and reveals a palm top computer. Quickly

he scrolls through the labyrinthine schematics loaded

onto the unit. TILT DOWN to see the various ducts.

Endless. Bottomless. But clearly, Fouchet's a man who

knows his way.

Seemingly empty.   From squad rooms to locker rooms to

booking.

OFFICER BILL O'FEE, 50s, reads a magazine and drinks

coffee. Video monitors in front of him show the

different lockers inside the evidence room. We see one

room with stacks upon stacks of heroin.

The team, attached to cables, slide into the building's

guts and disappear. STATIC CRACKLES:

Kuni finds the conduit he's looking for, splices it,

cuts into it with a Makita battery-powered circular saw,

then attaches a handheld high-8 video machine and starts

the video feed. The unit is strapped to the conduit.

The MONITORS FLUTTER, then STABILIZE.    Turning the page,

O'Fee sugars his coffee.

An air vent smashes to the floor.    Two guys pull the

metal case inside the room.

BANG! Another air conditioning vent grate crashes to

the floor. Their headlights blazing, two men clamber

into the cavernous room, Fouchet along with Casper. This

is the special Drug Holding Room: The lock cuts like

butter and the steel door is yanked open. One hundred

million dollars in heroin. Each kilo brick is stamped

with a distinctive octopus logo.

Sure enough.    As O'Fee stands from his desk --

Where Ferguson is waiting with an air-powered tranquil-

izer gun. He cuts loose a silent round that strikes

O'Fee at the base of the neck. O'Fee stops. But before

he can think to reach back at what hit him, his knees

buckle and he drops to the linoleum. Out cold.

One by one he moves backwards through the various levels

of locks, torching each to look as if they'd entered the

evidence room from inside the PD station.

Meanwhile --

Noah removes what looks like a flattened bobsled with

large urethane wheels from the metal case and places it

inside the air shaft.

Ferguson attaches the black "scuba tank," labeled

"NITROUS OXIDE," to a valve. This is connected to a

metal-cased cable system that is piston-gunned into the

floor.

Fouchet and Casper moving the stacks of heroin, placing

them in the air duct on the bobsled. Once they're done,

we hear RADIO GARBLE, then the sled is cabled to the con-

traption. A button is pushed -- and the sled is pulled

at breakneck speed through the duct.

Bag after bag drops down the trash chute and tumbles into

an open-roofed van where the last of the gang, Eddie

Dominguez, waits with the ENGINE RUNNING.

The sled rockets by again -- WHOOSH -- loaded with more

bags.

Casper and Fouchet throw the last of their gear down the

chute and ride the sled out.

One! Two! Three! Four! They all land atop the bags.

Eddie GUNS the VAN, which rolls up the ramp and out the

garage.

On the ledge the tape runs out and RECORDER EXPLODES.

Pieces scatter.

The van drives off into the golden sunrise of Miami.

TITLES END.

One of those expensive condo buildings on Brickell Avenue

with a circular driveway and a uniformed doorman.

CAMERA TRACKS THROUGH expensive and trendy bachelor's

lair. State-of-the-art everything, gorgeous artwork.

Spectacular view.

CAMERA STALLS ON -- a perma-plaqued newspaper clipping

with a photo depiction of Lowrey and Burnett in front of

a giant pile of black heroin, thumbs up to the camera.

The headline reads: MIAMI PD RECORDS RECORD HEROIN BUST.

Where Lowrey wakes up in a king-sized bed. The pain on

his face and empty, scattered bottles tell us he's

nursing a world-class hangover. He sits up, carefully,

holds his aching head. Hearing BREATHING, Lowrey lifts

the sheet next to him.

REVEAL THE LATINA

The one from the Colony Hotel. He drops the sheet back

over her head, reaches over to his nightstand and grabs

an industrial-sized bottle of Excedrin. Empty. He opens

the nightstand drawer, extracts another bottle. Empty.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/22/94                                9.

All marble and brass. Lowrey opens up his medicine

cabinet. Locating a new bottle of aspirin... he suddenly

realizes that the SHOWER is RUNNING. Confused, he pulls

open the shower curtain slightly. From the back, it's an

incredible body, then she turns around and it's --

THE LATINA

Yes.   The very same as the one he just saw in bed.    What?

Lowrey closes the curtain on her. Frowns at this

impossibility. He steps back into the doorway and peers

over at his bed. Yep, same face. Twins?

He tears open the bottle of aspirin.    Chug-a-lugs.

Burnett and his young wife, THERESA, are jarred awake by

the CLOCK RADIO BLARING on the night stand. Theresa

gropes for RADIO, shuts it OFF. Burnett playfully gropes

for her.

She laughs.   He kisses her.

She crawls from bed.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/22/94                             10.

Pandemonium. There's the two-and-a-half-year-old,

MEGAN, who's taking bites of food and spitting it back

out, looking at it, then putting it back in. Six-year-

old JILL, who is playing refrigerator magnet games on the

fridge. And Marcus in the middle of it all, deftly side-

stepping his eight-year-old boy, QUINCY, who appears on

roller blades whizzing through with a hockey stick and

ball. He body-checks Jill against the ice box.

Alongside the kitchen screen door we see Lowrey's PORSCHE

ROAR to a stop in the driveway.

Theresa laughs in spite of herself as the kids continue

to fight. Into this craziness enters Mike Lowrey...

Lowrey pecks Theresa on the cheek.   She recoils.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                            11.

The TELEPHONE RINGS.

Lowrey accepts the phone from Theresa and talks.

Burnett automatically pulls on his jacket, hugs the

children as Lowrey hangs up.

Lowrey rolls his eyes.

Burnett's following Lowrey and the kids out his front

door when his neighbor, DICK, accosts him from across

the hedge.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                         A12A.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/20/94                                12A.

FRANCINE, a civilian employee of the narcotics unit.

She's got pictures of her children parked around her

computer desktop. And though dowdy would be a

compliment, she's usually got a pleasant smile for

the boys. Except today...

She smiles.

Burnett and Lowrey know there's big problems when, at the

bottom of the stairwell, the first thing they see is a

yellow police tape and fingerprint team dusting a torched

lock. Problem is, the building is nothing but cops and

it looks as if the entire department is stomping all over

the evidence room.

INTRO - SANCHEZ AND RUIZ

Both laugh hysterically, while:

As Burnett and Lowrey duck the tape, they note a very

groggy O'Fee over in the corner being attended by a

paramedic team. He's still out cold. An oh shit look

passes between the two partners.

Another torched lock noted as Burnett and Lowrey enter

with Sanchez an Ruiz behind them. The room is emptied.

Captain HOWARD appears. He's short, has a military

haircut, and has a minor Napoleon complex and a major in

paranoia.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/21/94                              14.

Groans all around.

From the side appears a cigar-chewing Internal Affairs

suit named SINCLAIR. He circles close to Burnett and

Lowrey, waving his cigar as he speaks.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/21/94                              15.

CLOSE ON BURNETT

He walks to the center of the room and kneels to those

four bolt holes in the floor. He fingers the paraffin

filler, then looks above to the air conditioning grate.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/21/94                    15A.

Burnett crawls up with some help from Lowrey below,

stalling the oscillating fan with his cuffs and crawling

through. The first thing Burnett notices are the track

marks from the bobsled cutting through a coating of dust.

Then Burnett notes a manufacturing stamp at the joint.

It reads: ORONA AIR CONTITIONING SYSTEMS, INC.

Who appears from below, framed in the vent shaft.

Lowrey and Burnett with their desks opposite each other.

The CAMERA CIRCLES while they lay the arm on some

informants.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                            18.

This room isn't enclosed. It's walled by wire mesh.

Private enough, though. Max shuts the door.

Lowrey just gives her an "oh please" look.

Burnett is surrounded by beautiful, sweaty women. One of

them is a fabulous BLACK WOMAN with legs so long and

toned, they're not just legs, they're weapons. Burnett

can't help but stare.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                           19.

The other girls are suddenly interested, too.   Burnett

swallows and...

Stone cold looks from them all. They walk away with

Burnett giving a "what did I say" look. Lowrey appears.

As they head toward their car, Burnett's BEEPER SOUNDS.

He switches it OFF.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                            19A.

Burnett drives cautiously while both he and Lowrey bob

to Ice-T's "COP KILLER." They get a kick out of the

song.

An old guy passes them even though his car is pulling

an Airstream camper behind it. Lowrey can't believe it.

Burnett mumbles an answer.

What can Burnett say to all that, but...

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                          20.

He lets loose a big grin.

The RADIO CRACKLES.

Lowrey rolls his eyes, glances at Burnett, who's

embarrassed.

Burnett and Lowrey step from their unmarked car and

start up the steps to this stony, estate-sized house.

Lowrey rings the bell.   They wait.   No answer.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                              21.

Lowrey kicks the door in.

Lowrey and Burnett look at each other and draw guns.

The door is unlocked and swings open easily to reveal

Lowrey and Burnett in an instant, repulsed reaction to

Orona's body which sits upright in his office chair, the

body grotesque and bloated.

A sickened Burnett goes over to the body, speaking to

Orona as if he were alive.

Meanwhile, Lowrey's got   no problem with the dead body.

He tries opening a desk   drawer, but Orona's rigor mortis-

stiffened knee is in the   way. So Lowrey gives it a shove

and the chair swivels.    Orona's dead arm sweeps the lamp

off the desk.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                             22.

Lowrey braves the body and gingerly pokes around his

pockets.

A Palm Beach styled antique.

As antique as the exterior. Well-tended. Lots of potted

ferns amongst rattan and craftsman era furniture.

Enter --

LOIS

Matronly, in her flowered dress and bare feet, she

carries a tea tray toward the kitchen. Max is following.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM                          23.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/21/94                       25.

Max laughs.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/21/94                                 25A.

Upon arrival, the door is opened to Max and Julie by

Eddie Dominguez, instantly recognizeable from the heist.

Eddie's pouring champagne into a glass.

Julie sizes him up.    Good taste.   His suit.   Bad taste.

His personality.

Thev're stepped into a grand, opulent suite. High

arched ceilings. Magnificent antique furniture. Killer

view. No party guests.

He's moved behind them and reveals a concealed staircase

that rises into darkness.

CLOSE ON JULIE

Not happy. Stuck at the Biltmore with a Scarface

wannabe. She looks over at Max. Let's get outta here.

Julie crosses to the bathroom.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/21/94                           25B.

From underneath the couch Eddie reveals a single key of

heroin. Max tries to hide the recognition that she just

hit paydirt on the very first try.

Where she's silently cursing Max for getting her into

this lame-ass party when she hears MUFFLED VOICES outside

the bathroom. Instinctively, Julie peers through the

louvered shades.

She sees Eddie opening the door to Fouchet.   Casper and

Noah follow him inside.

Eddie is instantly nervous in the presence of Fouchet.

Max tries to size this man, then chooses to submit. She

does her best model's turn. Slowly giving him a view of

the rear when --

Fouchet draws a PISTOL -- BAM BAM!!

Max tumbles forward and CRASHES through a GLASS TABLE.

Instant horror. Julie saw Max killed and retreats to

the opposite side of the bathroom in total fright.

Now, Fouchet swings the gun onto Eddie.

BAM!   Fouchet SHOOTS Eddie in the knee.   Eddie screams!

REVERSE SHOT - EDDIE'S CHAIR

Fouchet UNLOADS THREE MORE SHOTS.    BAM BAM BAM!!!   Blood

spatters onto Casper.

Half-panicked, half-trying to keep her head. There's no

way out of the bathroom. All she can do is switch off

the light. And now she sees Casper's shadow as he

approaches.

CLOSE ON DOORKNOB

As it turns. Julie suddenly reaches for it and pulls

open the door with a surge. Casper stumbles in, his

face hitting the hard tile with a crunch.

Making her move, she hauls as fast as she can across the

room. Aiming for that secret fireplace door.

FOUCHET

Wheels with his PISTOL, unloads the clip. BULLETS are

catching up, ripping up the couch and the rest of the

suite. Julie dives right into the secret door.

Dark. Twisting. We MOVE WITH Julie as she races through

it, heart in her throat. She comes upon some old metal

stairs, a sliver of light at the top, and clambers up...

High atop the Biltmore, this is where the passageway

leads out to. A door flies open and Julie appears.

Panicked. Wind whipping all around her. A bird flies

by, startling her. Hearing the APPROACHING THUGS, Julie

sprints as best she can across the Spanish-tiled roof.

Turns to see --

Noah and Casper appear in the Bell Tower. Noah scans

the roof, takes aim and FIRES, but he's too far away --

and Julie disappears behind a rise in the roof.

She steps towards the edge of the roof. Quickly peers

over. A huge swimming pool, five stories down.

She weighs the options.   Jump or die.

NOAH AND CASPER

As they try running across the harsh-tiled roof...

Then Julie prays silently, takes a running start and

leaps from the roof. SLOW-MOTION as Julie flies through

the air like some glamorous angel.

as Julie breaks the surface with a huge splash. The

water swirls as her aching body struggles to the surface.

Julie breaks water like a dolphin, gasping for breath.

She's dazed and confused, but alive -- for the moment.

Fouchet reaches down and picks up Max's purse, then

flicks it across the room to the defeated pair of Casper

and Noah.

Several police cars, an ambulance and a coroner's van

are now parked in front, the lobby awash in strobing

red and blue lights. CAMERA PANS PAST the crime scene

personnel to find Burnett and Lowrey pulling up to the

scene. They get out and thread their way through the

growing chaos.

The place is a mess. Homicide detectives are already on

the scene, drawing chalk circles around casings on the

floor.

On the far side of the commotion, the two bodies have

been photographed and are covered. Chief Howard is

conferring with a technician who's dusting for prints.

BURNETT AND LOWREY

enter.

But Sanchez and Ruiz are already on the scene.

Burnett's quick to point out the trail of bloody foot-

prints Ruiz just tracked across the carpet.

CLOSE ON CHAMPAGNE GLASS

Which Julie left on the fireplace mantel. Lowrey's quick

to note the two separate shades of lipstick.

Meanwhile --

BURNETT

He drops the sheet on Eddie's body, then moves over to

Max's. He doesn't know it's her until --

Burnett drops the sheet, turns and puts a protective

shoulder between Lowrey and the body.

Lowrey instintively pushes past his partner and kneels

at the body. He pulls back the sheet. Right now he

could kill the shooter, then himself. In that order.

Lowrey's eyes well up.

The elevator doors open and out step Burnett and Lowrey

into a lobby full of cops. Lowrey goes straight to the

front desk.

He flashes a badge.

With a flashing right jab, Lowrey pops the snooty Clerk.

After the Clerk finds his feet, eyes peering over the

counter...

Walking down the steps toward their car, Lowrey passes

the phone sheet off to Burnett.

Lowrey jumps in the car.

Replete with balcony and billowy curtains, the old-styled

madame LOIS FIELDS sits up on her bed covered in pillows

and exotic stuffed animals. She thumbs an old, leather-

bound looseleaf binder full of modeling photos and

resumes.

Suddenly, the power is cut.

CRASH!   The front DOOR breaks down.   Noah appears.

Lowrey parks the Porsche.

The door is open and the deadbolt looks smashed with

something heavy like a sledgehammer. Lowrey pulls a

radio with one hand and his pistol with the other.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/22/94                               33.

Lowrey eases inside the darkness of the doorway. He

checks the lights, but the power is off. Slipping the

radio into his coat pocket, he returns with a mini-

flashlight and begins to clear a path, doorway by

doorway, then moving up a wide stairwell.

Howard is sitting at the edge of the desk while Burnett

is on the phone with Theresa.

MOVING THROUGH the doors of the master suite where a light

breeze blows through balcony of sheer curtains, Lowrey

turns ever-so-slowly with his flashlight following a beat

behind. The beam comes to rest on a bludgeoned body

laying on the bed amongst huge pillows and exotic stuffed

animals. The telephone cord is wrapped around her neck.

Lowrey's closer inspection reveals --

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/22/94                                  34.

LOIS'S CLIENT BOOK

Where an obvious page   and photo have been ripped out.

Julie's. Lowrey goes    for the phone. Picks it up with

his handkerchief. No    dial tone. So he drops the

receiver and heads out   of the room. But just as he

reaches the doorway --

Suddenly -- Lowrey's BEEPER SOUNDS.

He jumps.    Reaches down to switch it off when --

From out of those billowing curtains -- Noah!

Sledgehammer in hand, he swings at Lowrey, who instinc-

tively blocks and ducks as the hammer misses and crushes

the bannister railing. It gives under Lowrey's weight,

who reaches over and traps the sledgehammer, only to find

one of Noah's hammy fists battering him behind the ear

until --

The rail finally gives way.

Lowrey falls and crashes onto a Craftsman table covered

in antique picture frames. It collapses underneath him.

Then --

CLOSE ON LOWREY'S RADIO

Laying next to him.    It SQUAWKS LOUDLY...

The CAMERA LIFTS to reveal that Noah has vanished.

Howard can't believe his ears.       Is every cop's wife such

a pain in the...

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/22/94                               35.

Lowrey's PHONE RINGS.    But Howard's close so he picks it

up.

INTERCUT WITH:

This small place is a typical, party girl pit  stop. Very

little furniture, but closets overflowing with  clothes.

Magazines, beer bottles, unmade bed. Wet and   frightened,

Julie scurries around with a cordless phone at  her ear,

locking all the doors and windows.

Burnett hangs up and redials Lowrey's pager.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/21/94                             35A.

Lowrey, battered and barely conscious, is loaded into an

ambulance. His BEEPER SOUNDS.

She's so frustrated she's about to hang up.

INTERCUT WITH:

Burnett accepts the phone. Hand over the receiver, he

does a quick Lowrey impression that starts as lame and

ends pretty damn convincing.

Burnett's Volvo turns onto the block. He pulls over on

the opposite side of the street and parks, his car

blending in with others in the residential neighborhood.

He gets out, crosses to the lobby of her building.

Burnett knocks on the door.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/23/94 PM                               37.

He notices his gold wedding band, hastily removes it.

Just as he drops it into his jacket pocket --

INTERCUT WITH:

She stands on the other side of the door with a baseball

bat, cocked and ready to fly.

Burnett shows his shield.    Holds it up to the peephole.

After a beat, the door swings ajar.

But as Burnett enters the house, all he notices are that

two DOGS start YAPPING HYSTERICALLY. He can't see her.

But she can see him. From behind the door, she comes out

swinging a bat. Burnett ducks and Julie smashes the hat

stand instead.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/23/94 PM                             37A.

She doesn't believe him and swings the bat.

Julie swings for real, nearly taking Burnett's head off.

She swings again, but he's had enough, he moves quickly,

catching the bat with his hand and ripping it away from

her.

Burnett heads toward the open door.     Julie's veneer drops

as she shrinks to the floor.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/23/94 PM                               38.

She shakes her head.     He carefully steps forward.

Burnett nods and crosses over to help Julie to her feet.

Julie nods, scoops up one of her dogs and grabbing

another modeling bag off the table.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/23/94 PM                                39.

Burnett's getting a "not again" look on his face when --

KUH-BOOM!

A SHOTGUN BLAST blows the front door open.       Clutching the

bag, Julie races around the living room.

Burnett sees the second dog cowering in the corner.       So

he lunges over, scoops the dog up.

As the remaining parts are kicked in from the outside.

It's Casper, Noah and Kuni!

BURNETT AND JULIE

Racing through the apartment toward the back door,

Burnett wheels with the GUN and FIRES just as Kuni rounds

a corner with the SHOTGUN. The room ERUPTS with plaster

spray and NOISE. Julie shrieks, and Burnett shoves her

through the back door, then spins and FIRES. Kuni

tumbles and dies from multiple hits.

Julie leads him down a metal stairway.        BULLETS RICOCHET

left and right.

BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/23/94 PM                        40A.

