BREAKDOWN

FOR EDUCATIONAL

FADE IN:

EXTREMELY TIGHT ON ELECTRONIC GUTS

of a video camera. The screwdriver blade of a Swiss Army

knife ENTERS FRAME, methodically tightening a row of

screws.

PULL BACK to reveal:

EXT. BOMBARDED NEIGHBORHOOD (WAR-TORN COUNTRY) - DAY

On the backslope of a mound of rubble, a three-man TV

crew (field producer, reporter, and cameraman, all

wearing flak jackets) waits while the cameraman, JEFFREY

TAYLOR, works to repair his malfunctioning minicam.

Throughout this sequence, ROD, the reporter, types on a

laptop computer, oblivious to what is happening around

him.

HOWARD, the field producer, lies on his stomach, peering

cautiously over the crest of the rubble through

binoculars.

Beyond him we see an empty street. It is lined with

buildings blasted by shells: a sawtooth wall in the

f.g., a ruined high-rise at the end of the street,

billboards in an unrecognizable foreign language.

Jeff finishes his repair job, snaps the minicam closed.

Jeff slips the knife back in his pocket, scrambles over

the loose bricks and stones to a position next to Howard.

EXT. SAWTOOTH WALL - DAY

A frightened woman lurks nervously in the shelter of the

wall. She is young, in her early twenties, with shining

dark hair down to her shoulders. She's carrying an

armload of books.

EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE - DAY

Jeff focuses the minicam.

MINICAM POV

FRAMED in the viewfinder we see the frightened woman.

Jeff ignores Howard, PANS the minicam DOWN the street.

In the viewfinder we see the flash of sun on metal.

EXT. RUINED HIGH-RISE - DAY

A row of blasted windows. In one of the windows, a

sniper crouches. Sunlight glitters on his rifle barrel.

EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE

Jeff swings the minicam and --

EXT. SAWTOOTH WALL - MINICAM POV

-- the image blurs, then holds steady on the frightened

woman. Nervously, she peeks around the corner.

EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE

Jeff kneels on the ridge, minicam on his shoulder.

EXT. RUINED HIGH-RISE - POV THROUGH VIEWFINDER

Jeff's minicam ZOOMS IN ON the sniper. The sniper sees

the woman peeking and gets his rifle in firing position.

EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE

Jeff turns his head away from the camera and stares at

Howard.

Jeff looks to Rod for support but he's busy typing,

oblivious.

Jeff hesitates, then lifts the minicam to his eye again.

EXT. RUINED HIGH-RISE

The sniper, taking aim.

EXT. SAWTOOTH WALL

The frightened woman decides to make a dash for it.   She

takes off her high-heeled shoes, inhales deeply,

gathering herself to run.

EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE

Jeff watches through his viewfinder:

EXT. STREET

The frightened woman bolts, sprinting barefoot across the

cobblestones, skirt lifted, slender legs flashing.

EXT. MOUND OF RUBBLE

Jeff jumps to his feet, waves the minicam, shouting:

STREET

The woman looks up in Jeff's direction, confused,

breaking stride --

We hear a burst of automatic gunfire --

RUINED HIGH-RISE

In the window, the winking muzzle-flash of the sniper's

AK-47.

STREET

The woman's body jolts from the impact of the bullets.

The books go flying from her hand. She spins to the

pavement, her hair billowing.

JEFF

just stands there, a shattered expression. The camera

hangs at his side. He stares at the dead woman as a pool

of dark blood expands around her body.

EXT. LOGAN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (BOSTON) - RUNWAY -

NIGHT

A 747 touches down on the tarmac.

EXT. INTERNATIONAL TERMINAL - NIGHT

A late-model Jeep Cherokee is parked at the arrival curb.

AMY TAYLOR, Jeff's wife, peers out from behind the wheel,

scanning the crowd.

HER POV

Jeff, carrying a single bag slung over his shoulder,

emerges from the terminal.

BACK TO SCENE

Amy gets out of the car, grinning. Jeff sees her and

hurries over. He drops his bag and they fall into each

other's arms, kissing hungrily. These are two people

passionately in love with each other.

Jeff shakes his head no.

Again Jeff shakes his head.       Amy arches an eyebrow.

INT. JEFF AND AMY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A modest apartment in the Back Bay neighborhood. Not

much furniture, but lots of books and CD's. On the

walls, blow-ups of arty photographs -- Amy in modeling

poses, plus many black-and-white scenery stills.

Jeff's bag is unopened on the floor. We see two nearly

full wine glasses on a table. The CAMERA TRACKS DOWN a

hallway TO the open bedroom door.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

More framed photographs.

Amy lies in bed, curled up against a pillow. The sheets

are tangled in post-coital disarray, the only sign of

disorder in this neatly arranged room.

CLOSER

Amy stirs, reaching her hand out toward the other side of

the bed, which is empty. She opens her eyes, surprised

to find herself alone.

No reply.

Something catches her attention from across the room.

She rises, pulls a loose robe around herself and pads

over to a closed door. She knocks softly.

INT. DARKROOM - NIGHT

A walk-in closet has been converted into a small

photographic darkroom. Moist 8 X 10 prints hang from a

clothesline, bathed in a warm red glow. The images are

moody black and white landscapes.

Jeff stands over the developer, timing a print. Amy

enters through a thick black curtain behind him. He

doesn't look up.

Jeff shakes his head. Amy looks over his shoulder at a

landscape photograph in the developing tray.

Jeff nods.    Amy looks at him.     After a beat:

CONTINUED:

Jeff nods.

He says nothing.

He stops, lifts his eyes.

He breaks off and pushes through the curtain.    She

watches him go.

INT. LIVING ROOM - KITCHEN AREA - NIGHT

Jeff pours himself a glass of milk. Amy enters, stands

on the other side of the counter. Jeff doesn't meet her

eyes. After a beat:

CONTINUED:

She looks at him, concerned.

She looks at him, not understanding.       He hesitates.

He looks at her, emotional.

CONTINUED:

Amy looks at him, considering. We hear a faint RUSH OF

WIND. Then it gets LOUDER... LOUDER... and --

EXT. CREDIT MONTAGE - VARIOUS LOCATIONS - LOW ANGLE -

DAY AND NIGHT

The metallic grill of the Cherokee explodes INTO FRAME as

the car whooshes over us, hurtling down the Massachusetts

Turnpike.

In a SERIES OF SHOTS, with CREDITS OVER, we see landmarks

form the cross-country trip: a Pennsylvania Dutch

farmhouse, a smoke-spewing factory in Ohio, the

Mississippi River, Kansas wheat fields, Loveland Pass and

the Continental Divide.

EXT. OPEN DESERT - DAY

The middle of nowhere. Sand, weeds and sagebrush. A

two-lane highway stretches to the horizon like a ribbon

of asphalt.

The Cherokee cruises along the road. Its Massachusetts

plates seem out of place in this stark landscape.

There are no other vehicles.

MOVING CLOSER, we see that Jeff is driving.    Amy is sound

asleep in the reclined passenger seat.

In back, luggage, moving boxes, camera cases.

INT. JEEP CHEROKEE - DAY

The AIR CONDITIONING WHISPERS. On the console are two

empty Styrofoam McDonald's coffee cups and a state-of-

the-art Nikon Camera.

Jeff stretches in the driver's seat. He forces his eyes

open, fighting sleep. He reaches for the coffee cup...

it's empty. He glances into the back of the Jeep. There

is a thermos of coffee on the back seat.

Keeping one hand on the wheel, he reaches for the thermos

and fumbles it to the floor. He strains to reach it. He

doesn't notice...

EXT. HIGHWAY - 200 YARDS AHEAD

A slow-moving Dodge Ram pickup truck is approaching the

highway along a small road that cuts across the desert

floor.

The pickup, equipped with oversized tires, roll bar, and

a CB whip antenna, bounces over the uneven terrain and

turns onto the highway, stopping just before entering

Jeff's lane.

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

Jeff glances up just in time to see the Ram lurch into

the road in front of him. Jeff drops the thermos and

spins the wheel!

Amy's eyes fly open --

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The Cherokee goes into a wild looping skid. The Ram

jerks to a halt as the Cherokee whips past, averting a

collision by inches.

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

Jeff expels a breath. Amy turns to see the pickup

stopped in the road. She looks at him, concerned.

Jeff nods, looks in the rearview mirror.

HIS POV - PICKUP

halted in the middle of the road. Inside, dimly-visible

through tinted windows, are two figures in cowboy hats.

The driver leans out the window and gives Jeff the

finger.

BACK TO JEFF

angry at himself.    He looks over at Amy.

He glances in the rearview again, still a bit shaken.

EXT. GAS STATION - DAY

A small desert gas station/mini-mart just off the

highway. A sign over the building: "Last Gas For 30

Miles." The Cherokee is parked at the pumps, hood

raised.

Jeff comes out of the mini-mart, carrying a   plastic quart

of oil. He unscrews the cap and starts to    fill the

crankcase, careful not to spill on the new   engine. In

the b.g., Amy is visible inside the store,   browsing a

magazine rack.

INT. CONVENIENCE MART - SAME TIME

Amy thumbs through a cheap tourist guide, The Desert

Southwest. A TRUCK DRIVER stands nearby, perusing the

magazines. He glances in Amy's direction, notices what

she's reading.

Amy looks up at him. He's 50ish, plain-looking,

friendly, wearing a "U.S.A." logo baseball cap.

Amy hesitates. She's not used to talking with strangers,

but the guy seems harmless enough.

CONTINUED:

Amy smiles politely, moves toward the cash register.

The Trucker tips his cap.

EXT. GAS STATION - DAY

As Jeff continues pouring the oil, he doesn't notice the

mud-streaked Dodge Ram pickup pulling up to the pumps

behind him. The driver, EARL, climbs out. The other man

remains in the cab with the smoked windows rolled up.

Earl is a beefy man about Jeff's age. He wears a sweat-

stained Western hat, cowboy boots and a T-shirt with the

sleeves cut out to display his tattooed biceps. He

saunters over to the Cherokee, stands there a beat,

looking over Jeff's shoulder.

Jeff senses something behind him, turns. His eyes widen

as he sees Earl, recognizes the pickup as the one he

nearly hit a few minutes before. Earl stares at him,

unsmiling.

Jeff is in an awkward position. He's got a half-full

upside-down bottle of oil in his hands. If he lifts it

now, he'll spill on the engine. He turns his gaze back

to the engine, decides to keep pouring.

Earl steps around to the open passenger window, peers in.

Jeff watches him, wary.

CONTINUED:

The oil bottle empties    out. Relieved, Jeff pulls it away

and screws back on the    crankcase cap. He shuts the hood

with a thunk and moves    around to the side of the car to

remove the gas nozzle    from the tank. Earl blocks his

path.

Jeff says nothing.      This is not a friendly conversation.

Looking past Earl, Jeff sees Amy come out of the mini-

mart with a bag of groceries. He speaks carefully,

anxious to avoid a confrontation.

CONTINUED:

Earl glares at Jeff before turning away.    He passes Amy,

gives her a broad smile.

Amy takes in the situation. She nods politely. Earl

continues into the mini-mart. She approaches Jeff,

puzzled.

Jeff glances apprehensively at the man in the pickup, who

has not moved during the scene. He looks back at the

mini-mart.

Jeff climbs in behind the wheel. Amy glances at him and

gets in the car. Jeff keys the IGNITION and pulls away.

INT. CHEROKEE - DRIVING - DAY

As Jeff steers back onto the highway, he glances in the

rear-view mirror, sees --

MIRROR POV

Earl coming out of the mini-mart, staring after the

disappearing Jeep.

CONTINUED:

Jeff shifts in his seat, relieved to be getting away from

there. Amy watches the speedometer as it climbs to 75,

then 80, then 85.

Jeff releases his foot from the accelerator.     The needle

sinks back down to 65.

She gives him a long contemplative look.

Keeping an eye on the rear-view mirror, Jeff nods toward

the grocery bag, trying to change the subject.

Amy pulls out an assortment of candy bars and junk food.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - AERIAL - DAY

Far below us, the Cherokee traces the empty highway.

There are no buildings, no houses, no other vehicles.

INT. CHEROKEE - DRIVING - FEW MINUTES LATER

Jeff drives in silence. Amy stares out the window,

bored. Looking for a distraction, she picks up a

cellophane package of doughnuts and peruses the label.

CONTINUED:

She gives him a playful glance.

Jeff shrugs, disinterested.

Jeff stares out the window.       He's not into this.

Suddenly his eyes drop to the console between them --

CONTINUED:

Jeff is about to reply when suddenly the car bucks.

The car gives another jolt.

A warning light flashes on the instrument panel. The

brakes and steering lose power. The engine quits cold.

The CAR bucks and SCREECHES. After a few HICCUPS, it

jerks to a halt, just beyond a crest in the road.

For a moment, they sit there dazed, staring ahead at the

empty road. Then Amy notices an object on the floor --

the Nikon. She picks it up.

He rolls his eyes.   He yanks the hood release and gets

out.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Steam pours from under the    hood of the Cherokee. Amy

gets out and looks around    at the scorched wasteland.

Jeff goes to the front of    the car, gropes under the hood

for the release latch. He     yanks his hand away, burned by

the hot metal.

CONTINUED:

Amy moves to Jeff to examine the burn.     She reaches out.

Jeff lifts the hood, examines the engine. He tugs on a

cable, checks the battery connection and radiator.

He goes to the passenger's side and takes a hand-held

cellular phone from the glove box. He dials zero and

hits "send." The PHONE BEEPS.

Jeff grunts, tosses the phone on the seat. It bounces

and lands on the floor. Amy watches as he returns to the

engine and begins unscrewing the radiator cap.

Jeff busies himself with the engine, not answering.

Jeff says nothing.

CONTINUED:

He stops in mid-sentence. There is a RUMBLE in the

distance. They look down the road.

JEFF'S POV - DODGE RAM PICKUP

approaching fast on the road. As it streaks past, Earl

yells and launches a beer bottle from the window. The

BOTTLE SHATTERS on the asphalt.

BACK TO JEFF

watching the Ram speed away.

A quarter-mile away, the pickup is slowing. It pulls a

U-turn and stops, facing the Cherokee. It just sits

there, ENGINE IDLING.

Jeff watches the pickup, frowning. Then, from the

opposite direction, they hear a LOW RUMBLE. They turn

and stare at --

MASSIVE TRACTOR-TRAILER

coming over a crest in the road.

It's a huge eighteen-wheeler. A white 1988 Peterbilt.

It grinds into low gear and slows, BRAKES CREAKING.

The TRUCK comes to a halt with a HISS of compressed air.

DOWN HIGHWAY

the PICKUP STARTS UP again. It pulls another U-turn and

drives away, melting into the desert.

AMY

breathes a sigh of relief.

The driver dismounts from the cab, leaving the ENGINE

IDLING. We recognize him as the Trucker in the mini-

mart. He removes his cap, revealing a shock of

prematurely white hair. He is well-shaven, his clothes

immaculate. His name is Red.

Amy gets behind the wheel and puts the shift in neutral.

Jeff and Red push the car to the shoulder. As they push,

Jeff glances at the CB antenna on Red's cab.

CONTINUED:

Red walks around to the front of the car and peers down

at the exposed engine.

Amy gives Jeff a reprimanding look.     It's subtle, but Red

notices.

Jeff considers this, glances back to where the Dodge Ram

was last seen.

Amy rolls her eyes. Red sees the look, trying not to

smile. He glances up at a small plane flying overhead.

CONTINUED:

He turns and heads back toward his truck. Amy looks at

Jeff. She waits till the trucker is out of earshot.

Amy hears this.       She's had enough.   Flares.

In the b.g., the TRUCK is THROTTLING UP.       Then, mad and

careless:

She turns away. The truck starts to pull out. She bites

her lip, thinking, then steps into the road and flags the

truck down. Red brakes.

CONTINUED:

She goes to the passenger side of the Jeep for her purse.

Jeff follows, lowering his voice.

She walks to the truck. Jeff stands there. She climbs

into the cab. Red moves some papers out of the way.

She pulls the door shut. The TRUCK THROTTLES UP and

pulls away. Jeff watches the truck dwindle in the

distance, flashers blinking. After a beat, the flashers

cease.

EXT. ROADSIDE - TWENTY MINUTES LATER

Beneath a blazing sun, Jeff paces restlessly in front of

the Cherokee, checking his watch, wiping beads of sweat

from his face. He looks down the highway.

CONTINUED:

Nothing in sight. Extremely bored, he wanders over to

the raised hood and studies the engine again.

After a few moments, something catches his eye. Curious,

he kneels down and peers under the chassis. He frowns.

JEFF'S POV - LOOSE WIRE

dangling under the engine.

BACK TO JEFF

He pulls his Swiss Army knife  from his pocket and slides

under the car. Working with   the screwdriver blade of the

knife, he reconnects the plug  to its socket. In the

process, his hands and shirt  become stained with grease.

Jeff slides out from under the car, brushes himself off

and gets behind the wheel. He tosses the Swiss Army

knife on the center console and keys the ignition. The

ENGINE ROARS to life.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - MINUTES LATER

The Cherokee speeds down the empty highway.

INT. CHEROKEE - SAME TIME

Jeff drives, a determined expression.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - DAY

The Jeep blows past.

EXT. BELLE'S DINER - DAY

A weather-beaten structure with a gravel parking lot.     A

peeling sign on the roof: "Belle's: Beer & Food."

There is a phone booth outside.

The Cherokee pulls in and parks.      Jeff CHIRPS the ALARM,

heads for the entrance.

INT. BELLE'S - DAY

Dark and dingy. Formica tables, a bar. Chunky customers

in K-Mart clothes sit at the bar, nursing beers and

watching a football game on a big MUTED TV.

Jeff enters and all conversation stops. The other

patrons turn and stare. After a moment, they return to

their beers.

Jeff glances around.   No sign of Amy.   No sign of Red.

A bored-looking BARTENDER stands behind the counter,

preparing a sandwich. Behind him, a blackboard menu.

Jeff approaches.

The Bartender looks up, a cutting knife in his hand.

The Bartender shrugs, gives him a look:    Yeah, so?

The Bartender plops the sandwich on a plate, tears off an

order slip.

CONTINUED:

The Bartender thinks a moment, shakes his head.

The Bartender leans over the counter, calls out:

Jeff looks up and down the counter. Blank faces, a few

disinterested shrugs, a few headshakes no.

A disheveled female barfly, FLO, grins up at him.

A few of the regulars chuckle at this.     Jeff ignores

them, turns back to the Bartender.

Jeff scratches his head.    This doesn't make any sense.

Jeff clenches his jaw, takes another look around.      An

elderly couple sit at a rear table, watching him.      They

whisper to each other.

CONTINUED:

He turns and goes outside...

EXT. BELLE'S - DAY

Jeff squints in the bright sunlight.

Maybe he got this place confused with a different diner.

He peers up at the sign. It says "Belle's," all right.

He walks to the phone booth, looks inside.   The phone

book is missing.

He picks up the receiver, listens for the dial tone...

Phone works okay. He hangs up.

He stands there for a moment, scanning the horizon in all

directions. There is nothing else out here, nowhere else

she could have gone.

Jeff marches back into the diner...

INT. DINER - DAY

Jeff goes to the Bartender.

Jeff regards the Bartender skeptically.    He takes one

last look around, then heads out.

EXT. BELLE'S - DAY

Jeff marches briskly to his car and opens the door,

forgetting to deactivate the alarm. The SIREN WAILS.

Jeff fumbles for the remote and shuts if OFF.

HIGH ANGLE - MOMENTS LATER

The Cherokee pulls out of the parking lot, kicking up

gravel.

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

The stereo is off, the windows rolled up.   Jeff drives,

his jaw set tightly.

The speedometer reads 88 mph.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - MINUTES LATER

The Cherokee crests a rise...

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

... and then across the desert plain, traveling on

another road, he sees it...

PETERBILT

The 18-wheeler that picked up Amy.    Cruising leisurely.

Jeff presses the accelerator...

EXT. FORK IN ROAD - DAY

The Cherokee turns sharply onto the other road.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - AERIAL VIEW - DAY

The Cherokee speeds down the road, gaining on the

Peterbilt. It comes up behind.

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

Jeff HONKS his HORN, flashes his lights.

Either the driver doesn't notice, or he's ignoring Jeff,

but the truck does not slow down.

Jeff shifts into the oncoming lane and pulls alongside

the cab. He HONKS again and waves, gesturing for the

truck to pull over. But the Peterbilt maintains its

speed.

Jeff cranes his neck to get a glimpse of the driver...

POV SHOT

It's Red, alright. But he's wearing a different cap.

FROM this ANGLE, we can't see into the passenger side of

the cab.

Red peers down at Jeff, puzzled.      Jeff shouts at him,

waves:

Red suddenly notices something ahead in the road, BLARES

his HORN.

Jeff looks up, sees --

An RV camper approaching in the oncoming lane!

HIGHWAY

Jeff swerves onto the far shoulder as the RV whooshes

past in the opposite direction, HORN BLARING.

CHEROKEE

Jeff is rattled, catching his breath.      He swings back

onto the road.

HIGHWAY

Jeff slips in ahead of the Peterbilt, then starts weaving

and braking, forcing the truck to slow.

CONTINUED:

Both vehicles pull to the side of the road and stop.

Jeff leaps out of the Cherokee and runs over as Red

climbs down from the empty cab.

(NOTE: Throughout this scene, various cars and trucks

pass in either direction.)

Jeff reacts.    How thick can this guy be?

Red gives him a puzzled look.

Jeff stares -- is this guy nuts?

Red searches his memory, trying to be as helpful as

possible. He shakes his head.

CONTINUED:

Red gives him a peculiar look.

Suddenly, there is a loud SQUAWK from inside the cab --

the CB RADIO.

Jeff freaks out, circling the truck, calling loudly:

Red shrinks back, unnerved.

Red's eyes dart to something in the distance.        Jeff

catches this, turns...

SHERIFF'S PATROL CAR

Cruising toward them.

Jeff runs into the middle of the road and waves

frantically. The patrol car switches on its flash bar

and speeds up, pulling to a stop behind the Peterbilt.

CONTINUED:

SHERIFF BOYD, 50ish, climbs out, sizing up the situation.

Jeff runs over.

Jeff catches his breath.

The Sheriff unsnaps the safety strap on his holster...

just a precaution.

CONTINUED:

The Sheriff takes a long look at both of them, unsure

what to think. He turns back to Red.

As Red closes his wallet, several credit cards fall to

the ground. He bends to scoop them up. Jeff eyes this

suspiciously.

The Sheriff climbs up into the truck.

INT. PETERBILT CAB - DAY

The Sheriff pokes his head inside, looks around.

Pretty much what you'd expect in a long-haul big rig:

a CB radio, a plastic Jesus, a map of the U.S. taped to

the ceiling with hundreds of magic marker X's showing

where the truck has been.

CONTINUED:

The Sheriff looks into the sleeping area behind. A

blanket is folded over a foam mattress. A stained pillow

rests on top.

EXT. PETERBILT - DAY

Jeff and Red keep a careful eye on each other as the

Sheriff climbs down from the cab, wiping his hands.

Jeff and Red fish into their wallets and hand over

I.D.'s. The Sheriff examines them, comparing faces to

pictures and writing down names.

The Sheriff hands back the I.D.'s.

EXT. REAR OF PETERBILT - DAY

Jeff and the Sheriff observe as Red unlatches two heavy

padlocks. Grunting, he raises the slatted METAL DOOR.

It retracts along the ceiling with a noisy RATTLE.

INSIDE

The cavernous interior is mostly empty, except for a few

randomly strewn cardboard boxes, too small to contain a

person.

The Sheriff considers it, shakes his head.

Red has been looking on.   He chimes in, trying to be

helpful:

The Sheriff grabs Jeff, holds him back.

CONTINUED:

Jeff stares at the Sheriff a beat, then bolts suddenly

for the front of the truck. He yanks open the door and

leaps up into the cab.

The Sheriff jogs after him.      Red walks to the cab,

unconcerned.

INT. PETERBILT CAB - DAY

Jeff searches the cab for signs of Amy. He tosses aside

a jacket, rifles papers on the floor. There is nothing.

EXT. CAB - DAY

Sheriff Boyd looks up sternly as Jeff continues searching

the cab. Red watches calmly.

Jeff gives up reluctantly. He looks lame and desperate

and he knows it. He steps down from the cab, gritting

his teeth.

Jeff stares at him, knows where this is going.

CONTINUED:

The Sheriff studies him a beat, nods.

Jeff stares at the cop.    Emphatic:

CONTINUED:

Red climbs into the cab. Jeff watches helplessly,

resigned to the fact there's nothing more he can do.        The

Sheriff goes to the cruiser and speaks on the radio.        As

the truck drives off, Jeff goes over to the cruiser.

He hands Jeff a card with an address printed on it.

Jeff clenches his jaw as the words sink in.    The Sheriff

softens, his tone sympathetic.

As Jeff stares at the Sheriff, the police RADIO SQUAWKS.

He racks the mike.

CONTINUED:

The Sheriff looks up at Jeff, sighs.

The Sheriff shifts into gear and drives away. Jeff is

left standing on the side of the road, desert in all

directions.

INT. POLICE STATION - DAY

A wall is covered with missing persons' notices.

Photographs of men, women and children stare back at us.

Names and dates are printed across the bottom of the

notices.

PULL BACK to reveal Jeff staring at the gallery of faces.

It's a creepy feeling. Several yards away, DEPUTY LEN

CARVER, a young puffy-faced lawman, sits at a desk

filling out a form. Jeff looks shaken.

Jeff glances over. Deputy Carver is holding up a wallet-

sized photograph of Amy.

CONTINUED:

The Deputy resumes filling out the form.   He clicks his

tongue sympathetically.

Jeff stares at the faces.

Deputy Carver finishes the paperwork and staples the

photograph to the form. He looks up at Jeff.

Jeff clenches his jaw.

EXT. ROOF OF BELLE'S DINER - DAY

From this high vantage point, we see Jeff's car

approaching.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

The Cherokee pulls up to the side of the building.   Jeff

gets out and walks inside.

INT. BELLE'S DINER - DAY

Jeff enters, looks around. It's the same scene as

before: same Bartender, a slightly different cast of

characters.

No sign of Amy.

CONTINUED:

Jeff advances to the Bartender, who stands at a sink

rinsing beer mugs.

Jeff looks around, not particularly trusting the

Bartender's skills of observation. He grinds his jaw.

The other customers at the bar have been watching all

this. One of them, an older grizzled BARFLY, looks up at

Jeff.

The Barfly gives Jeff a wink and turns back to his beer.

Snickers from some of his bar mates, who avert their eyes

when Jeff glances at them. Jeff knows this is almost

certainly a put-on, but he can't take a chance.

While the Barflies watch, poker-faced, Jeff walks to the

door of the ladies room, hesitates, then knocks. His

knock is answered by a wordless sound, HALF-GROAN, HALF-

GASP.

Silence. Jeff tries the door. It's locked. He rattles

it. Another GROAN. Jeff puts his shoulder against the

door, heaves inward. The door swings open, revealing --

INSIDE BATHROOM

Flo, bent over the toilet, vomiting. She whirls around,

a strand of spittle dangling from her lip.

Jeff backs away, yanks the door shut.   The barflies

chuckle among themselves.

Jeff strides angrily for the exit. He stops at the door,

takes one last look around. No one seems to be paying

him much attention. He turns to leave...

... but something stops him. He can't put his finger on

it. There's something wrong here...

He stares at the other customers. Why do they avoid eye

contact? Are they hiding something?

He scrutinizes more closely...

There is the gruff trucker, sitting at a nearby table

shoveling food in his mouth. He's been averting his gaze

ever since Jeff walked in.

And then there's the traveling salesman. Overweight,

sweaty. Popping vitamins along with his coffee.

Or what about the shirtless biker, reading a comic book

at the bar? Probably an ex-con.

While Jeff is running these suspicions through his mind,

a trucker approaches the counter to place an order. The

Bartender jots it down on a pad, then tears off the

carbon slip. He places one copy above the grill and

another in a pile by the cash register.

Jeff stares, an idea forming...

He approaches the bar.

CONTINUED:

Jeff leans in his face.

The Bartender stiffens, stares him straight in the eye:

A tense beat.

Possessed by a sudden impulse, Jeff makes a grab for the

receipts. Before he can reach them, the Bartender's hand

clamps onto his.

In one swift motion, Jeff overpowers the man and extracts

the receipts. He starts going through them, fast,

looking at names. TULLY, MARK, FLO, ANDY and...

Jeff raises his eyes to face the unpleasant end of a

Smith & Wesson revolver.

Jeff takes a step back. Everyone in the diner is

staring. He stumbles backwards, heads for the exit.

EXT. BELLE'S DINER - DAY

Jeff exits, breathing hard, and runs to the phone booth.

PHONE BOOTH

is occupied by a YOUNG MAN with an awkward oversized

frame, ill-fitting clothes. Jeff raps on the glass

anxiously.

CONTINUED:

The Man looks up, dull and glassy-eyed. His sluggish

demeanor suggests mental retardation. He hangs up and

slowly opens the door.

The Sluggish Man hesitates. There's something holding

him back. Jeff senses this.

Billy is about to answer. In b.g., the Bartender sticks

his head out of the diner. Billy backs away, spooked.

Billy breaks into a loping run through the parking lot.

Jeff hurries after him and catches up, cornering Billy

between two cars, trying to calm him.

Billy glances around nervously, swallowing.

CONTINUED:

Jeff reels, struggles to stay focused.

Billy's expression darkens.     He starts backing away.

Billy laughs.

Jeff looks at him, confused.

Billy turns and runs back into the diner.       ON Jeff's

sickened reaction, we --

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

Jeff drives flat-out, his face grim.    The speedometer

reads 100 mph.

Keeping his eye on the road, he thumbs through the pages

of a pocket address book. He picks up the handheld

cellular phone and dials.

The "NO SERVICE" INDICATOR BEEPS.

EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY

The highway intersects Route 7. The Cherokee slows just

enough to take the corner without tipping over.

It flies past a sign:   "Route 7 - North."

EXT. ROUTE 7 - DAY

The road ascends into the rocky hills above the desert

plain. The route is narrow and windy, forcing Jeff to

reduce his speed.

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

Jeff drives, desperately searching for any sign of a

truck. There are no other vehicles on the road.

He keeps pressing the "REDIAL" button.    The "NO SERVICE"

INDICATOR BEEPS over and over.

EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY

The road curves through a tunnel, then climbs higher,

past sharp cliffs and drop-offs. Jeff follows the signs

for "Route 7."

INT. CHEROKEE - DAY

Something catches Jeff's eye on the cell phone. For the

first time, the "SERVICE" indicator blinks green. Jeff

immediately grabs the phone again and presses "REDIAL."

CONTINUED:

There is a burst of STATIC, then we hear a SCRATCHY

RINGING. The call is going through.

He waits for an answer.

There is a burst of STATIC.       The reception is very poor.

More STATIC.

Jeff holds the phone tight to his ear.

The SIGNAL CUTS OFF.    Jeff slams the phone against the

dash, furious.

He punches redial, gets the "NO SERVICE" BEEPING, then

glances up, sees a --

CHAINLINK FENCE

covered with high-visibility markers stretched across the

road. The sign: "ROAD CLOSED."

BACK TO JEFF

He mashes the brakes. The CHEROKEE SKIDS to a halt just

short of the fence. Jeff stares at it.

CONTINUED:

He grinds his teeth. Beyond the padlocked gate, the

highway continues as an unpaved dirt road.

He deliberates, then throws the Cherokee in reverse and

does a three-point turn so he's facing back in the

opposite direction.

He looks up, sees --

DODGE RAM PICKUP TRUCK

has been hiding in the bushes off the road. It lurches

forward and stops in the middle of the road, blocking

Jeff's escape. Jeff's eyes widen in fear as he

recognizes the vehicle and its driver: Earl.

Earl gets out of the cab with a hunting rifle.   He raises

it to his shoulder.

JEFF

swears, panicking.

Jeff stares into the rifle, deliberating.   His hand moves

to the gearshift.

He jerks it into reverse and floors the gas!

CHEROKEE

peels out in reverse, snaking wildly side to side, aiming

for the chainlink fence.

It BURSTS the FENCE!   Poles and chain mesh go flying!

JEFF

cranks the wheel and brakes hard. The rear end of the

Cherokee swings wide to the edge of the road.

He throws the shift into drive and punches the throttle.

EARL

jumps in the Ram and takes off in pursuit.

JEFF

GUNS the ENGINE. The Cherokee bounces wildly on the

rutted, storm-damaged road. He yanks the four-wheel-

drive lever.

DIRT ROAD

The huge pickup streaks after the Cherokee, its 7.5-LITER

V10 ROARING, oversized tires devouring the terrain.

JEFF

GUNS the ENGINE on the washboard road surface, the

vibration nearly shaking the suspension apart while --

RAM

keeps pace in the dust from its wake. Inside the cab,

Earl can be seen speaking on a CB transmitter.

JEFF

throws the Cherokee into a sharp turn in the road. As

the car rounds the bend, he looks up, reacting, as --

IDLED BULLDOZER

blocks the road at a construction site. More unattended

earthmoving equipment fills the road beyond.

JEFF

brakes wildly. To his right, a cliff goes straight up;

on the left, a guardrail protects a steep ravine.

He cuts the wheel left, CRASHES through the GUARDRAIL and

plunges into the ravine!

CHEROKEE

bounces wildly as it hurtles down the slope, CRASHING

through sagebrush and manzanita.

JEFF

clings to the wheel, tossed about violently, as suitcases

and packing boxes go everywhere.

The Cherokee hits a bump on the steep slope and CRASHES

through the upper branches of a willow grove.

As the leaves part, we see... a river.

CHEROKEE

lands on the passenger side with a SPLASH and comes to

rest half-submerged in the RUSHING WATER.

EARL

jerks the Ram to a halt, leaps out and runs to the edge

of the road to look down on the Cherokee in the river.

He grabs the rifle and begins making his way down the

slope.

INSIDE CHEROKEE

The world is sideways. Water rushes into the car. Jeff

is strapped into the driver's seat by the seatbelt. The

AIRBAG DEFLATES with a HISS.

Jeff grimaces in pain. He looks around, blinking.   The

river is flowing right through the Cherokee!

Luggage, styrofoam hamburger clamshells and empty Coke

cans bob on the surface of the water.

Jeff fumbles with the seatbelt release. The belt comes

free and he drops suddenly into the water on the

passenger side.

He gets to his feet, reaches overhead to unlatch the

driver's side door and pushes it open.

He hoists himself through the door.

RIVERBANK

Earl sees Jeff emerging from the half-submerged Cherokee,

levels the RIFLE and FIRES!

JEFF

ducks back inside the Cherokee, freaking.

The passenger side is on the river-bottom and if he tries

to get out through the driver's side, he's a sitting

duck!

Jeff swears and looks around, seeing a metal camera case

underwater in the back seat.

He grabs the case and swings it at the windshield.   The

first three blows bounce off harmlessly.

Then the WINDSHIELD SHATTERS with a CRASH!

He takes a deep breath, submerges and swims underwater

through the broken windshield.

ON BANK

Earl stiffens as he sees movement in the water. Several

items of debris from the car are floating on the current.

He begins moving downstream along the bank, eyeing the

river.

UNDERWATER

Jeff breaststrokes for all he's worth. Sand swirls in

the swift current. He pushes away from a boulder in his

path.

He swims until his lungs are bursting, then surfaces for

air.

ON BANK

Earl sees Jeff break the surface. He aims the RIFLE and

FIRES! A BULLET SMACKS the WATER near Jeff's head.

Then Jeff is under again.

UNDERWATER

Jeff struggles to stay in control. The current is

turning swifter. His shoulder glances painfully off a

boulder.

ON BANK

Earl works his way through the brush at the river's edge.

His foot lands between two rocks. He pulls it out,

swearing.

BEHIND ROCK

Jeff surfaces and gulps in air, staying out of sight of

Earl on the bank. Then he is down again.

ON BANK

Earl works his way along the shore. Up ahead, the river

runs over rapids before passing around a bend.

Earl hears an ENGINE and turns. A huge moving van has

arrived on the dirt road overlooking the ravine.

He shouts to the DRIVER, pointing downriver.

The Driver shouts something inaudible. Earl runs along

the bank, ducking under low-hanging branches.

IN RAPIDS

Jeff is carried over the rocks by the fast-moving

current. He slams into a boulder, letting out a cry and

swallowing a mouthful of water.

A downed tree hangs over the river. Jeff grabs

desperately and takes hold of a branch. He's got it!

Hanging on to the branch, he notices a familiar object

floating past in the water: the "90,000 Donuts" pack.

Jeff tries to haul himself from the river. The BRANCH

bends under his weight. Then it comes free with a CRACK!

Jeff is carried downstream on the rushing water.

ON BANK

Earl works his way along the shore.    The unseen Driver of

the van shouts to him from upriver.

CONTINUED:

BELOW RAPIDS

The river has turned slow again.

Jeff fights to his feet in the shallows and staggers to

the bank. He drops to his knees, retching.

Clutching his ribs, he raises his head and looks upriver.

For the moment, there is no sign of Earl. But he could

appear anytime.

Jeff gets to his feet, wincing. He looks up at the rocky

canyon wall bordering the river. It's steep but

scalable.

He begins climbing.

EXT. ROCK OUTCROPPING - MINUTES LATER

Jeff has climbed to higher ground. He lies flat on his

belly and peers THROUGH a gap in the rocks at the river

valley below.

JEFF'S POV - RIVER

The men have given up their pursuit.

The moving van, a jumbo three-axle GMC, has turned around

and backed up to the edge of the ravine.

A stocky man, AL (whom we recognize as Earl's passenger

at the minimart), operates a gas-powered winch in the

cargo door of the van.

A cable runs from the winch down to the Cherokee in the

river.

Standing knee-deep in the current, Earl signals to Al

while the winch slowly tugs the Cherokee onto its wheels,

then backwards out of the river.

BACK TO JEFF

watching in amazement.   He can hear only snatches of

their conversation.

Jeff can't believe it. The Cherokee is being pulled

backwards up the slope toward the road.

He belly-crawls back from the outcropping, gets to his

feet and climbs higher.

EXT. ANOTHER PART OF CLIFF - LATER

Jeff has moved to higher ground. He crouches behind a

stand of manzanita and looks down at the activity below.

JEFF'S POV - ROAD

The Cherokee is now back on the road.

Operating the winch with precision efficiency, Earl and

Al drag the Cherokee up a ramp into the rear of the

moving van.

Once the vehicle is aboard, they stow the ramp and close

the van doors.

BACK TO JEFF

watching in amazement, straining to hear what Earl and Al

are saying. Behind Jeff, a PEBBLE SKITTERS on the rock.

He turns, reacts.

It's Billy -- the halfwit from the diner! Wielding a

shotgun like a club, he swings the butt at Jeff's skull!

Jeff drops to the ground, unconscious.

FADE IN:

INT. CAR TRUNK - DAY

There is a CREAK as the TRUNK opens. Jeff lies inside,

dazed and disoriented, blinking into the sun. His eyes

won't focus. Earl and Billy stand over the trunk in

silhouette. He can hear their voices:

A gun barrel jabs Jeff in the ribs.

Jeff blinks. A face slowly comes INTO FOCUS. Is it

really Billy? The halfwit from the diner? Only he isn't

a halfwit anymore.

Jeff looks at Billy. Nothing makes sense anymore. But

one thing is clear: Billy's mental retardation was all

an act.

CONTINUED:

Billy nods, disappointed.

Earl raises a pistol.   Jeff's eyes flash.

Earl stops, glances at Billy.   They both eye Jeff

carefully.

A faint smile plays on Billy's lips.     He slams the trunk.

INT. CAR TRUNK - DAY

It's nearly pitch black. A beam of sunlight shines

through a rusted hole. It illuminates Jeff's eyes.

CONTINUED:

The car shifts into gear and sets off across the desert.

Jeff grunts as the car bounces on the uneven terrain.

He braces against the confines of the trunk. The ENGINE

NOISE is deafening. The car hits a depression and

jounces wildly. Jeff is thrown about violently.

EXT. MESA OVERLOOK - DAY

There is a CREAK and the TRUNK opens. Jeff squints into

the sun. Earl and Billy stand over the trunk.

Jeff gets out, grimacing.     His clothes are stained with

grease and tire grime. He     sets his feet unsteadily on

the ground, looks around.     We see that he has been

confined in the trunk of a    Pontiac Firebird.

The Firebird and Dodge Ram are parked on a bluff. Red

stands on the highest point, peering through binoculars

at the desert below. He glances at Jeff.

Jeff stares, a mix of emotions -- anger, fear, confusion.

Jeff looks at him with loathing.

CONTINUED:

Jeff's anger bubbles over...

He advances toward Red. Billy and Earl grab him from

behind and tackle him to the ground. Billy drives a fist

into his kidney. Jeff gasps in pain.

Red nods impassively.

Earl and Billy hoist Jeff to his feet and propel him up

the mound closer to Red.

From here, Jeff can see a small desert town spread out

below, as well as the highway leading through it. Red

gestures.

Jeff follows his gaze.

Jeff nods tightly.

Jeff nods.

CONTINUED:

Billy slugs him in the gut again.   Jeff doubles over.

Jeff compresses his lips.

Jeff says nothing. Red raises a hand-held CB to his

mouth. He keys the transmitter.

Red turns back to Jeff.

Jeff stares back.

CONTINUED:

He tosses Jeff the binoculars.

Jeff hesitates, then raises the binoculars.

THROUGH BINOCULARS

The IMAGE SHIFTS, then STEADIES and FOCUSES ON a small

building with a police cruiser out front and a barely

legible sign: "BRACKETT SHERIFF." It's the police

station where Jeff filed the missing persons' form

earlier.

Deputy Carver comes out of the building gulping down a

sandwich. He gets in the cruiser and pulls away, lights

flashing.

The cruiser pulls away down the highway.

JEFF

lowers the binoculars and looks at Red.

He smiles at Jeff.

They lock eyes.   Red tosses Jeff a Windbreaker.

Jeff puts on the jacket.    It covers his filthy shirt.

Red checks his watch.

ON Jeff's expression...

EXT. BOTTOM OF MESA - DAY

Jeff stumbles and nearly falls as he descends   the loose

rock at the foot of the mesa. He looks up at    the ridge,

but Red and his crew have pulled back out of   view. Jeff

starts across an open field toward the town,   first

jogging, then running.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Jeff hurries toward the bank. He looks back at the mesa

again. The gang has disappeared.

Up ahead, a mud-streaked pickup cruises the main street.

Jeff eyes it warily. Is it one of theirs? The truck

pulls around a corner.

INT. BANK - DAY

Jeff pushes through the main doors. It's a typical small

town operation. A guard stands near the entrance.

Several customers wait in line for the woman teller.

Jeff looks at the slow-moving line and swears softly. He

doesn't have time to wait. He glances around, sees an

older man sitting at a desk in the rear of the bank, the

nameplate on the desk identifying him as Roger Calhoun.

Jeff approaches.

CALHOUN looks up from his paperwork, hesitates at Jeff's

appearance.

Jeff remains standing.    He eyes the other customers

nervously.

He takes a seat across the desk from the manager, reaches

into his wallet and brings out several forms of

identification.

CONTINUED:

Calhoun looks at him curiously.

Calhoun looks mystified.

Calhoun raises an eyebrow and begins filling out the

transfer form. Jeff eyes him, decides he has to risk it.

He leans toward the desk.

CONTINUED:

Jeff turns. A GUY wearing cowboy boots and a feed cap

stands behind him.

The guy takes a seat ten feet away. Jeff looks at him,

paranoid. Their eyes meet. Jeff looks away quickly.

INT. BANK REST ROOM - DAY

Jeff enters and locks the door.

He startles at his reflection in the mirror.     He is

sunburned, dirty, lacerated.

He opens a cabinet and rifles through the supplies,

looking for anything that could be used as a weapon.     He

tosses aside detergents and air fresheners.

He picks up   the toilet plunger, pulls the wooden rod from

the rubber   base. He swings it into his palm a few times,

testing it   as a club. It's too bulky. He won't be able

to conceal   it.

He checks his watch. Time is running out.      He takes one

last look around the bathroom, then exits.

INT. BANK - DAY

Jeff comes out of the rest room. The manager is behind

the teller's counter. The cowboy is gone. In his place

sits a middle-aged blue collar worker. He looks at Jeff.

Jeff takes a seat, glances at Calhoun's empty desk.

There is a letter opener on the desk, several paper bands

for wrapping currency.

Positioning his body so no one can see, Jeff takes the

letter opener and slips it into his sleeve. He scoops up

a handful of currency wrappers.

Jeff goes to the teller's window, scribbles something on

the back of a deposit slip and hands it to the teller.

The teller looks at him oddly.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Jeff comes out of the bank with a manila envelope,

glancing up and down the street. There's no sign of the

men. He squints toward the mesa. No sign of them there

either.

He stands there. What's he supposed to do now? He

checks his watch, growing anxious. Finally he is about

to jog back in the direction he came, when... a PHONE

RINGS.

Jeff turns. There's a pay PHONE down the street. It

RINGS again. He approaches quickly, lifts the receiver.

Jeff looks up and down the street, trying to figure out

where they're watching from. He looks toward the bank,

glimpses the manager peering through the window.

CONTINUED:

The LINE CLICKS.    Jeff hangs up and starts walking.

INT. BANK - DAY

Calhoun speaks on the phone.

EXT. HIGHWAY - OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN - DAY

Jeff walks along the road, carrying the envelope.

Various cars pass in either direction, but none slow

down.

Jeff stiffens as an 18-wheeler approaches. But the TRUCK

THUNDERS past, blowing a cloud of dust and sand in his

face.

Jeff continues walking, anxiously checking over his

shoulder every few moments. His eyes narrow.

The Dodge Ram pickup is cruising toward him. It slows,

then brakes to a halt. The passenger door opens. Earl

sits behind the wheel, aiming an automatic pistol.

CONTINUED:

Jeff stands firm.

Jeff looks around, wonders if Earl would risk shooting

him in view of passing traffic.

Jeff hesitates, then tosses the envelope on the      seat.

Earl opens it, reaches in and pulls out several      packets

of currency. They are wrapped with paper bands       and

appear to be stacks of fifties and hundreds. He       replaces

them and gestures at Jeff with the gun.

Jeff complies. Earl sees that he isn't carrying a gun.

He beckons Jeff toward the truck with the automatic.

Jeff takes two backwards steps toward the passenger side

door. Earl grabs his arms, yanks roughly and wraps them

with several layers of duct tape.

Jeff struggles into an awkward kneeling position on the

floor, facing the rear of the pickup, his belly pressed

against the seat.

Earl reaches over and pulls the door shut. He throws the

truck in gear and starts driving. Jeff grimaces, looking

up at him.

CONTINUED:

Earl backhands Jeff against the passenger door. There is

a RINGING sound and Earl pulls a CELL PHONE from his

pocket. He presses a button and raises it to his face.

He ends the call and tosses the cell phone on the dash.

He tucks the pistol in his belt.   Jeff looks at him,

seething.

Jeff tries to squirm free. Earl sees it and belts him

across the temple. Jeff slams into the passenger door,

wincing.

Earl laughs. Jeff has come to rest with his back against

the door. By contorting his arms, he is able to draw the

letter opener from his pocket.

He manipulates the letter opener into position and begins

cutting the duct tape that binds his wrists.

CONTINUED:

Steering with one hand, Earl reaches into the envelope,

pulls out a packet of bills and waves it in Jeff's face.

Jeff saws faster at the duct tape.

Jeff glares at him.

Earl laughs obscenely. He riffles the bills under his

nose again, then stops abruptly, frowning. He looks down

at the bills.

Earl stares at the bills. Jeff works feverishly behind

his back. Earl pulls out another packet, then another,

examining the bills.

There is a RIPPING SOUND. Jeff wrests his hands free and

lunges across the cab. He plants the letter opener in

Earl's shoulder!

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY

The pickup veers across the center line on the narrow

mountain road. It swerves back, over-correcting wildly,

and drifts for the opposite shoulder.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Jeff seizes the pistol from Earl's waistband.    Earl

flails and knocks the pistol from his grasp.

CONTINUED:

The pistol flies onto the floor.

Earl uncorks a vicious backhand. Jeff's head snaps

sideways. He grabs Earl by the arm and twists sharply.

Earl howls!

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY

The pickup careens back and forth across the treacherous

roadway.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Jeff gropes on the floor. His hand closes around the

pistol and he swings it at Earl -- crack! Earl's nose

erupts! Jeff reaches across and jams his foot on the

brake.

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY

The PICKUP SCREECHES and comes to a halt straddling the

road.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Jeff swings the pistol into Earl's face -- crack! Earl

tries to fend off the blows. Jeff creams him again --

crack!

INT. TOW TRUCK - DAY

A TOW TRUCK DRIVER traveling in the opposite direction

pulls to a stop. He gawks at the two men struggling in

the pickup.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Jeff aims the pistol at point blank range.     Earl is a

bloody wreck. His head lolls groggily.

Earl sneers. Jeff is about to slug him again when he

notices the two truck parked across the road, the driver

staring out.

CONTINUED:

Jeff swears and wrestles Earl into the passenger seat.

He seizes the roll of duct tape and binds Earl's wrists,

then passes the tape under his legs so Earl is

effectively hog-tied.

He then slams Earl back in the seat, circles his neck

twice with tape and wraps the free end around the base of

the passenger side headrest. Earl begins to gasp for

air.

The Tow Truck Driver gets out and approaches.

Jeff gets behind the wheel and throws the pickup into

gear.

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY

The Two Truck Driver leaps out of the way as the pickup

surges forward, tires smoking. He stares open-mouthed

after the departing vehicle.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Jeff drives, one hand on the wheel, the other brandishing

the pistol at Earl.

Jeff swings the pistol. There is a crack of exploding

teeth! Earl's mouth erupts with frothy blood!

Jeff hits the brakes. Earl is thrown forward, letting

out a strangled cry as the duct tape chokes off his

windpipe.

CONTINUED:

He hits the brakes again, harder.       Earl's tongue

protrudes from his lips, choking.       His face is red.

He slams the brakes again. Earl's eyes bulge

sickeningly. He is being choked to death.

INT. POLICE CRUISER - DAY

Traveling in the opposite direction, Sheriff Boyd is

returning toward town. As he rounds a bend in the road,

he sees --

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY

The Ram driving erratically and weaving back and forth

across the road.

INT. POLICE CRUISER - DAY

The sheriff reacts.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

As the Ram passes, Sheriff Boyd throws the cruiser into a

SCREECHING 180-degree turn. He flicks on the SIREN and

takes off in pursuit.

INT. DODGE RAM - DAY

Jeff glances in the rearview mirror. The cruiser is on

their tail, SIREN WAILING, lights flashing. He swears

and pumps the brakes in a series of rapid bursts.

Jeff hits the brakes again.

INT. CRUISER - DAY

Sheriff Boyd jerks the wheel to avoid a collision with

the pickup as it slows and accelerates in rapid spurts.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The cruiser pulls up alongside the pickup...

INT. CRUISER - DAY

Boyd reacts in amazement to what he sees --

Boyd taps his brakes, falling back behind the pickup.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Jeff is wild-eyed.

CONTINUED:

Jeff has the information he needs.       He slams on the

brakes!

INT. CRUISER - DAY

Sheriff Boyd swerves to avoid a crash as the RAM

SCREECHES to a halt in front of him!

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The cruiser skids to a stop. Jeff leaps from the pickup

with the pistol in his hand. He rushes toward the

cruiser. Sheriff Boyd hops out, levels his service

revolver.

Jeff pitches the gun away and it skitters down an

embankment. He raises his hands.

He means it.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Earl struggles for breath. The duct tape is still tight

around his neck. He strains against the tape binding his

limbs.

He glances in the side view mirror to see the Sheriff

ordering Jeff down on the ground.

By wriggling and contorting his wrists, Earl is able to

tear one hand free. Then he pulls away the rest of the

duct tape from his knees.

The tape is still wrapped tightly around    his neck,

pinning him to the backrest. Earl claws     at the tape, but

it won't come free. Finally, with both     hands, he reaches

behind his head and yanks the read rest    from the seat.

He reaches into his boot for something...

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Jeff is spread-eagled on the ground. Sheriff Boyd calls

out to Earl in the cab. He keeps his gun leveled.

Earl sets one foot on the road. The headrest dangles

against his back, still taped to his neck. Suddenly Earl

whirls, holding a .22 snub-nose REVOLVER and FIRES!

The sheriff stumbles away, blood spurting from his

shoulder, the gun flying from his hand.

Jeff looks up in horror as the sheriff falls.

CONTINUED:

Earl comes around the pickup after Jeff, raising the gun

to fire. Jeff scrambles to his feet and dives down the

embankment.

Earl runs to the edge of the embankment. Down below,

Jeff is reaching for the automatic pistol the sheriff

ordered him to drop.

He finds it... too late...

Earl is aiming at point-blank range from the top of the

embankment. He is already squeezing the trigger when...

BLAM! Earl's chest erupts outward as a bullet passes

through his body from behind!

Earl staggers and flops down the embankment. He comes to

rest near Jeff, blood gurgling from a massive chest

wound.

Jeff climbs the embankment. The sheriff is lying on the

road, critically injured, gun lying nearby and still

smoking from the shot that killed Earl.

The sheriff is struggling to speak into a remote

transmitter strapped to his uniform.

Jeff bends over the Sheriff and examines his wound with a

grimace. He is verging on unconsciousness. Jeff

deliberates, torn. There is nothing he can do here.

Making up his mind, Jeff runs to the pickup. The hand-

held cellular phone has spilled into the road. He scoops

it up, jumps behind the wheel and LAYS RUBBER.

EXT. BLUFF - DAY

Jeff stands on a ridge overlooking a Texaco truck stop.

Behind him, the Dodge Ram pickup lies hidden in a growth

of scrub oak and tumbleweeds.

Jeff looks overwhelmed by what he sees spread out below.

JEFF'S POV - TEXACO TRUCK STOP

It's a giant truck stop. There are hundreds of big rigs

parked in rows like silvery sardines.

A sign towers over the main building:    "DIESEL $.99 GAL."

BACK TO JEFF

He looks shaken. How will he ever find Red here?    It

seems impossible.

He descends the bluff to the truck stop.

EXT. TRUCK STOP - DAY

Jeff skids on his heels down the loose hillside and

reaches the edge of the parking lot. There are trucks

everywhere. Diesel MOTORS RUMBLE. Exhaust fills the

air.

He reaches the end of a row of big rigs, starts searching

the grounds for the markings of Red's 18-wheeler.

It's nowhere in sight.

A high-pitched FEMININE SQUEAL from an adjacent truck's

sleeping compartment startles Jeff.

The woman GIGGLES, O.S. Jeff ignores it, scanning the

truck stop. He stiffens.

A police car is arriving at the truck stop.

Staying out of sight, Jeff passes quickly to the rear of

a tractor trailer.

EXT. TRUCK WASH - DAY

Jeff peers out from behind a parked mini-van as trucks

emerge wet and dripping from an immense truck wash.

Across the way, trucks are filling up on diesel at the

gas islands. Jeff's eyes narrow. Is that Red's

Peterbilt among them?

He quickens his pace, then falls back, slumping. The

rig's black driver is getting in the cab. Jeff glances

to the side, frowns.

CONTINUED:

An older vacationing couple is eyeing Jeff warily.

Jeff looks down, cops to it instantly. His clothes are

ripped, caked with blood. He ducks between two parked

cars, using a side-view mirror as he hastily wipes blood

off his face. He checks to be sure no one is watching.

Something catches his eye.

EXT. BLUFF - JEFF'S POV

A highway patrol car with flashing lights is parked near

the place where Jeff ditched the pickup. Beside it, a

state trooper surveys the truck stop with binoculars.

EXT. TRUCK WASH - DAY

Jeff's jaw tightens. He glances toward the road, sees

two more highway patrol cars cruising the perimeter of

the truck stop.

Swearing, Jeff turns on his heels and walks away in the

opposite direction, shielding his face.

EXT. TRUCK STOP PARKING LOT - DAY

Jeff emerges from between two vehicles, glancing over his

shoulder nervously. He keeps his head down, moving fast.

He scans the truck stop in all directions. The patrol

car is still parked on the ridge, the patrolman peering

through binoculars.

Jeff quickens his pace alongside the truck stop building,

passing a row of pay phones. He looks up, stops dead.

Red is talking on a pay phone six feet away.

Jeff stares. Red is facing away, unaware of his

presence. Jeff darts into an adjacent pay phone.

He shields his face with the receiver and listens.

CONTINUED:

Red waits, listens.

He hangs up.   Jeff presses the phone against his face and

turns away.

When he looks up, Red is walking toward his Peterbilt

truck, parked in a row of big rigs. Jeff starts to

follow, then freezes.

Several cops are fanning out on foot, questioning

everyone they encounter.

Jeff sees Red getting into his truck. The ENGINE KICKS

OVER. The BRAKES HISS and the truck begins pulling out.

Jeff whips around. The older vacationing couple are

talking to a cop fifty yards away. The husband points

toward the pay phones.

Jeff makes a sudden decision, doubles back behind a

rolling farm truck.

COP

thanks the couple, calls out something to his fellow

officers.

JEFF

runs alongside the farm truck, using it as a shield. He

overtakes the truck, cuts across its path. The farmer

BLARES his HORN.

Jeff glances left. Red's tractor trailer is traveling

across the crowded parking area, slowly gaining speed.

Jeff sprints in front of a moving car.

The driver jerks to a halt and HONKS, catching the

attention of a nearby cop. Jeff quickly turns away,

avoiding being seen.

Red's 18-wheeler turns toward the access road. Jeff

looks around, panicked. More cops are spreading out on

foot. They'll notice him any second.

CONTINUED:

Jeff crouches low and scurries underneath a slow-moving

postal truck. The truck speeds up, nearly crushing him

under the rear wheel assembly.

Jeff rolls out of the path of the giant wheels, gets to

his feet on the other side and finds himself...

... in the path of another huge truck!

A cop is standing only 20 feet away! Jeff goes

underneath another trailer, crawling between the moving

wheels. He springs to his feet.

Red's Peterbilt is pulling away!

Jeff runs for all he's worth. His arms and legs pump

furiously. He runs abreast of the truck...

... and seizes the spare tire mount!

EXT. INTERSTATE - UNDER TRUCK - DAY

Jeff hangs on for dear life. His legs drag over the

asphalt. He lets out a cry of pain.

The truck is joining the highway, accelerating.

Grimacing, Jeff swings his legs over the universal joint

as the roadway races past below. The huge TIRES are a

HOWLING blur.

Suddenly his grip falters on the grease. His back

scrapes the rushing asphalt. Jeff gasps, makes a grab

and holds firm.

As he hangs on, a station wagon overtakes the Peterbilt

in the passing lane. A three-year-old boy sits in the

rear compartment, staring out at Jeff, a puzzled

expression on his face.

Jeff stares back. It's an odd moment between the two.

The station wagon continues forward and EXITS FRAME.

EXT. INTERSTATE - DAY

The PETERBILT THUNDERS over a patch of highway that is

being graded for paving.

EXT. UNDER TRUCK - DAY

The tires kick up a hail storm of loose gravel and dirt,

pelting Jeff all over his body.

He realizes he can't stay where he is. Grunting with

effort, he works his way hand over hand along the

underside rigging toward the cab.

He seizes the trailer hitch and hoists himself up.

EXT. BETWEEN CAB AND TRAILER - DAY

Standing on the coupler, Jeff clutches his ribs and

catches his breath. He's in pain. The road whips by

below his feet.

The truck hits an uneven stretch of road and bounces

violently. Jeff grabs the coiled brake line for support.

The truck is doing 70 mph, exhaust racketing.

Jeff pulls the cell phone from his pocket and dials 911.

He holds it tightly to his ear, shouting above the wind.

He strains to hear the reply.

He waits.

INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY

Red glances in the side mirror at the road behind him as

he drives, unaware of Jeff's presence.

EXT. TRUCK COUPLER - DAY

Jeff clutches the cell phone to his ear, waiting.    He

reacts suddenly as the call is put through.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. POLICE STATION - DAY

Deputy Carver speaks on a phone extension while the

DISPATCHER sits nearby.

The troopers stare back.    They look like they have a

score to settle.

EXT. RED'S PETERBILT - DAY

The truck streaks along the interstate.   Sitting on the

coupler, Jeff is a picture of despair.

EXT. RED'S PETERBILT - DUSK

Hours later.

The truck races toward the bloated lowering sun, with no

sign of slowing down. Jeff lies curled under the

windfoil on the roof of the cab. He hugs himself,

shivering in the cold draft.

EXT. RED'S PETERBILT - NIGHT

The TRACTOR TRAILER RUMBLES in low gear along a sparsely

populated two-lane road. A neighborhood DOG YAPS.

EXT. ROOF OF TRUCK CAB - NIGHT

From his hiding place under the windfoil, Jeff peers out

into the darkness, unable to figure out where he is.

He catches his balance as the truck turns a corner and

slows, driving past a tract of undeveloped land, before

turning into the driveway of a...

EXT. RESIDENTIAL LOT - NIGHT

and braking to a halt under the broad overhanging eave of

an old dilapidated barn.

CONTINUED:

Behind the two-story farm house, a rusted Volkswagen bus

and satellite dish hunker in the weeds. A newer car, a

1981 Cadillac Deville, is parked to the side.

Red kills the engine and climbs out of the cab. As he

walks toward the house, a screen DOOR SLAPS. DEKE, 9,

squirts across the lawn in his pajamas.

Red scoops him up.

ARLEEN, 35, comes out of the house in a bathrobe.

She comes out into the yard.

EXT. TRUCK CAB - NIGHT

Jeff flattens against the sleeper. He can see Red

greeting his wife, their words carrying faintly across

the lawn. Jeff is baffled by this domestic scene.

EXT. YARD - NIGHT

Arleen reacts with disappointment to something Red's told

her.

Red turns to his son, extends a key.

CONTINUED:

Deke takes the key and sprints for the barn while Red

returns to the cab, passing within several feet of Jeff's

hiding place.

He reaches into the cab, brings out a duffel bag and

unzips it. Jeff keeps his breathing shallow, squeezes

against the windfoil.

Deke runs up, breathless. Red holds two hands behind his

back. Red and Deke are just six feet from Jeff.

Red opens his right hand.    Empty.

Red opens his left.    Empty.

He opens his hand, revealing Jeff's Swiss Army knife.

CONTINUED:

Deke takes the knife and runs off. Red goes to the rear

of the trailer, unlocks it and raises the slatted door.

He hops up inside. His FOOTSTEPS ECHO in the metal

trailer. We hear him SHIFTING BOXES.

EXT. BARN - NIGHT

Jeff seizes his chance. He crawls out from under the

windfoil and hoists himself onto the overhanging eave.

The STRUCTURE CREAKS under his weight.

INSIDE TRAILER

Red sticks his head out of the trailer, puzzled.

EXT. ROOF OF BARN - NIGHT

Jeff crouches in the shadows. He can see Red poking his

head out from the trailer, peering up at the roof.

INSIDE TRAILER

Red shrugs, lets it go. He resumes unloading boxes,

tosses down a full set of Louis Vuitton luggage. He lugs

the items into the barn.

EXT. ROOF OF BARN - NIGHT

Jeff goes to a second-story window. A board has been

nailed over the window. He pulls it away, steps into...

INT. BARN HAYLOFT - NIGHT

and looks around, amazed.     Everywhere around him there

are stolen goods.

Matching luggage sets... a rack of women's coats... a

table piled with cameras... a crate filled with car

phones...

A stack of windshields... two sets of golf clubs... three

child safety seats... a ten-speed bicycle...

CONTINUED:

Several dozen "COMMERCIAL VEHICLE" license plates are

scattered about -- Arkansas, Oregon, Texas, Iowa, South

Dakota...

As Jeff stares, reeling, there is a RUMBLE outside.

EXT. BARN - NIGHT

Red looks up from toting a box of car stereos and snarled

wiring as the moving van and Pontiac Firebird arrive at

the barn.

He beckons for the vehicles to pull forward into...

INT. BARN - NIGHT

Al dismounts from the moving truck. Billy climbs out of

the Firebird. They are travel-sore, stretching. Red

shuts the door behind them.

Red grunts, unlatches the door to the moving van, lowers

a ramp. The three men begin unloading boxes.

INT. BARN HAYLOFT - NIGHT

Jeff lies on his belly peering through a knothole.

JEFF'S POV THROUGH KNOTHOLE

The men unload Jeff and Amy's belongings -- luggage,

photography equipment, miscellaneous items. Inside the

moving van, the battered Jeep Cherokee is visible,

partially covered with a tarp.

CONTINUED:

There is a HAMMERING noise, O.S.    Red looks over,

irritated.

Al sits at a workbench hammering precious stones out of

Amy's jewelry. He looks over at Red.

INT. BARN HAYLOFT - NIGHT

Jeff breathes in sharply, presses his eye against the

knothole.

INT. BARN GROUND FLOOR - NIGHT

Red unlatches a hidden compartment under the chassis of

the moving truck. He and Billy slide out a long metal

box, similar to a drawer in a morgue.

They lift the metal lid, revealing --

CANVAS SACK

The sack is stained and ripped.    Red pokes at it.   The

sack doesn't move. Red shrugs.

INT. BARN HAYLOFT KNOTHOLE - NIGHT

Jeff stares, paralyzed, his universe exploded.   Moisture

forms in his eyes.

INT. BARN GROUND FLOOR - NIGHT

Billy and Al reach into the compartment, start to lift

out the sack.

Suddenly the sack drives its legs into Al's belly.

Al falls backward, drops the sack on the floor. It tears

open revealing Amy -- gagged with duct tape, her wrists

and ankles taped. She squirms and kicks wildly, her

screams muffled.

INT. BARN HAYLOFT KNOTHOLE - NIGHT

We see Jeff's eye in the knothole. It's all we need to

see to gauge the effect on him of seeing Amy alive.

INT. BARN GROUND FLOOR - NIGHT

Al gets to his feet, furious.

Red reacts.

CONTINUED:

Red walks to a corner, moves aside a section of false

flooring. He pulls up a hidden trap door, revealing a

root cellar.

AMY

squirms on the hay-strewn floor. Her clothes are ripped,

face bruised. She looks up, reacting: Jeff's eye is

visible in the knothole.

Their gaze meets... and holds...

RED

returns and takes Amy by the legs. Al and Billy lift her

by the arms. As they carry her to the root cellar, Red

peers into her terrified face.

Amy reacts, writhing even more violently, but she's no

match for the three men.

BARN HAYLOFT

Jeff watches helplessly as...

BARN GROUND FLOOR

The men disappear with Amy into the cellar. We hear a

METALLIC THUD, then a few moments later, the men reappear

without her. Red closes the trap door, secures it with a

heavy padlock, then slides the panel of false flooring

over it.

They turn, walk toward the door. Red opens it. Arleen

is standing there. Al and Billy greet her politely:

CONTINUED:

The barn goes dark as the men leave.        The barn door rolls

shut. A LOCK CLICKS.

INT. BARN HAYLOFT - NIGHT

Jeff quickly climbs down a ladder in the pitch darkness.

He crosses the room, bumping into a workbench. He

swears, makes his way toward the...

INT. REAR OF BARN - NIGHT

Jeff drops to his hands and knees, feeling for the

padlocked trap door. He finds it, speaks in an urgent

whisper.

No reply.     Jeff cups his hands, presses his mouth to the

floor.

Still no reply.

Jeff swears, glances around the dark room.       There is a

tool bench across the room.

He goes to   the tool bench, fumbling in the darkness. He

knocks over   a cardboard box -- a pile of car keys spill

across the   table. His hands run over an assortment of

tools.  He   locates a hammer, takes it.

Returning to the trap door, Jeff inserts the claw in the

padlock and tries to pry it open. The lock won't give.

CONTINUED:

He strains, using all his strength.     Suddenly the handle

snaps! Jeff flies backwards.

He gets up, goes to the tool bench. His hands feel over

and reject an assortment of small tools. He finds a

crowbar, returns to the trap door and inserts it into the

shackle, twisting with all his might. After several

failed attempts, he swears.

Jeff mulls his options.    He sets his jaw, exhales.

He swallows, emotional, clearly torn.

INT. BARN - MOVING VAN CAB - NIGHT

Jeff opens the door. A weak dome light flickers on. He

climbs up into the cab and tries turning on the CB radio,

but no luck -- the keys are gone.

He opens the glove compartment. There are maps, trip

logs, truck stop receipts. He rifles through them

quickly.

Jeff frowns, gets on the floor of the cab and gropes

under the driver's seat. His eyes register a discovery.

He brings out a big black semi-automatic pistol.

Jeff studies the base of the grip, clearly unfamiliar

with guns. He fumbles with the clip, ejects it. The

clip is full of bullets.

He snaps the clip back in place.

CONTINUED:

EXT. BARN - NIGHT

Jeff climbs out of the window onto the broad overhanging

eave. He steps to the edge of the roof and lowers

himself onto the Peterbilt cab, then drops to the ground.

He looks around. Red's is the only house visible. A

light flickers in the trees a mile away. It could be

anything.

Jeff moves toward the house.

EXT. RED'S HOUSE - BACK PORCH - NIGHT

Jeff holds the gun ready as he eases open the screen

door. The DOOR CREAKS on its hinges. Jeff steps into...

INT. RED'S HOUSE - REAR ENTRYWAY - NIGHT

Jeff lets the door close silently. There are VOICES

coming from a distant room. He passes a washing machine,

a hamper full of dirty clothes, and moves silently

down...

HALLWAY

toward the voices. VIDEO GAME sound effects emanate from

a room off the hall. Jeff flattens against the wall,

peers into the living room.

Seated on the floor with his back   to Jeff, Deke is

playing Nintendo on a wide-screen   television.  Various

items are scattered about: stereo    speakers, a jukebox, a

brand new Nordic Track. There is    a rifle rack across the

room.

Stepping past the doorway, Jeff continues down the hall

toward...

INT. RED'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Red is in the middle of telling a story.    Arleen, Billy

and Al sit around the table.

CONTINUED:

The plates are cleared away.       They are drinking beer.

Arleen and the men laugh heartily.

Al glances toward the door, stops laughing.         Billy and

Arleen follow his gaze, go silent.

Red notices his audience is no longer paying attention.

He turns in his chair, sees --

REVERSE ANGLE - JEFF

Standing in the doorway. Aiming the pistol. His clothes

caked with blood and dirt. He sways slightly.

Nobody else moves.

There is silence.

CONTINUED:

Arleen glances at Red, frightened.

Arleen looks up at Jeff, scared.      She starts to open her

mouth, when --

Jeff turns. Nine-year-old Deke is aiming a rifle at Jeff

from the hallway. The rifle looks enormous in his hands.

The boy's lip quivers.

The room is silent. No one moves. Jeff keeps the pistol

aimed at Red. He swallows, speaks slowly:

CONTINUED:

Deke looks at his father, fights back tears.        His finger

tightens on the trigger.

Deke whimpers, squeezes the trigger...

Suddenly, Billy bolts from the table. The RIFLE FIRES!

The recoil knocks Deke off his feet. The bullet rips

into Al's shoulder!

Red is out of his chair. Jeff dives first and seizes the

rifle. He whirls, aims the pistol at Red.

Everyone freezes.

CONTINUED:

Jeff sidesteps to the window. Billy is running across

the yard. Is he headed for the barn? Jeff swears, turns

back.

Deke rises, tears streaming down his face.

Deke obeys. Clutching his shoulder wound, Al glares at

the child as he passes.

Jeff deliberates. Where the hell was Billy going?          He

gnaws his lip, decides.

Red, Arleen and Al get to their feet. Deke stays at his

mother's side. Jeff aims the pistol at Red, holds the

rifle with his other hand.

He herds them to the door.      Arleen looks to Red

nervously.

EXT. BARN - NIGHT

Jeff trains the pistol as his captives stand at the

entrance to the barn. He glances around, keeping an eye

out for Billy.

CONTINUED:

Red fishes a key ring out of his pocket and extends it to

Arleen. She just stands there.

She takes the keys.

Arleen inserts a key, opens the padlock.

Deke looks at his father. Red nods.         Deke goes to the

door, begins wheeling it open.

Jeff herds all four into --

INT. BARN - NIGHT

Jeff leads the group through the barn at gun-point.

He glances right and left, wired. The rifle is strapped

to his back. He keeps the handgun ready. He peers under

the tractor-trailer, looking for any sign of Billy.

They reach the trap door. Jeff circles it, constantly

keeping an eye on Red and Al. He hands the keys to Deke.

CONTINUED:

Deke looks at his father. He kneels, unlocks the padlock

and heaves open the trap door, revealing a narrow

staircase slanting into the cellar.

Deke looks down into the darkness and swallows.

Deke descends the steps, frightened.

Jeff jabs the pistol at Red:    Tell him where the light

is.

There's a CLICK and the light goes on in the cellar.

Deke lets out a yip of fear.

Jeff crouches to peer into the cellar.

JEFF'S POV - CELLAR

Roots and mildew hang in strings from the ceiling. The

light is a bare bulb. There are several distressingly-

shaped garbage bags against the wall.

BACK TO JEFF

His gaze shifts back to Red.

CONTINUED:

We hear a FREEZER BEING OPENED.

They wait tensely while Deke works downstairs.

Amy climbs the stairs quickly. Scraps of duct tape cling

to her wrists. She throws her arm around Jeff.

While Amy embraces him, Jeff keeps the gun on Red and the

others. He gestures toward the cellar.

CONTINUED:

Nobody moves.

Arleen and Al descend the steps.        Red follows, then

stops, halfway down.

Jeff stares back.       A beat, then:

He boots Red in the chest, sending him backward down the

steps. He slams the trap door shut and locks the

padlock.

He looks around, sees a massive tool chest.         He tips it

onto the trap door -- crash!

Then he takes Amy's hand, still keeping an eye out for

Billy.

They run from the barn.

EXT. BARN - DAWN

The first rays of sunlight are beginning to poke over the

horizon.

Jeff wheels the barn door shut and locks it.         He sees Amy

running toward Red's house.

CONTINUED:

It's too much to explain. Jeff grabs her arm. As they

take off running toward the light flickering in the

distance.

REVEAL BILLY

lurking in the shadows at the corner of the barn,

watching.

EXT. FIELD - LONG SHOT - DAWN

Jeff and Amy are tiny figures sprinting across the flat

terrain, illuminated by the red glow of a rising sun.

EXT. TRAILER HOME - DAWN (MINUTES LATER)

The morning sky is lighter now.

A rickety trailer surrounded by a chicken coop, junked

appliances and a clothesline. There's an old utility

pickup truck parked in front. Jeff and Amy arrive out of

breath. Jeff pounds on the door.

There's no answer. Jeff puts his shoulder to the door

and rams it open. The flimsy door gives way easily.

INT. TRAILER - DAWN

Jeff enters. The place is ramshackle -- torn vinyl

furniture, empty beer bottles scattered about. A

tattered flag hangs on the wall. There's no one around.

Amy follows him inside, looks around. Jeff crosses the

room, snatches up a phone and dials 911.

CONTINUED:

While he waits for an answer, Amy leans the rifle against

the wall. She notices a set of car keys hanging by the

door.

A DEEP RUMBLE is approaching, GETTING LOUDER by the

second...

Amy pulls a curtain aside, reacts to what she sees --

Suddenly, the ROAR is DEAFENING --

The PETERBILT EXPLODES through the wall of the trailer

home!

JEFF AND AMY

dive out of the way.

INT. RED'S PETERBILT - DAY

Inside the truck cab, we catch a glimpse of Red behind

the wheel, shouting something inaudible. Fragments of

debris cling to the grille.

INT. TRAILER HOME - DAY

The rickety structure spins 360 degrees!

Jeff goes flying. A TELEVISION somersaults across the

room and EXPLODES. Amy slams into a wall.

The speeding Peterbilt shears away a section of the

trailer home with a horrible RIPPING sound!

The trailer home is suddenly open to the sky.

INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY

Red puts the truck into a hard turn, circling for another

run at the devastated trailer.

INT. TRAILER HOME - DAY

Jeff struggles to his knees.

Amy is crawling over the debris. Jeff pulls her to her

feet. He grabs the rifle and car keys.

They stagger through the gaping hole in the trailer.

INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY

Red sees Amy and Jeff flee the trailer and head for the

utility pickup. He throws the Peterbilt into a turn.

YARD

Amy and Jeff run for the Ford F100 utility truck -- an

aging blue-collar workhorse equipped with side-mounted

toolboxes and a lumber rack bearing a ladder.

IN FORD

Jeff keys the ignition. The ENGINE SPUTTERS. Amy whips

around to see the Peterbilt bearing down from the side.

CONTINUED:

Jeff turns the key. The ENGINE CATCHES!   He throws the

Ford in gear and floors the gas.

The Ford shoots out of the Peterbilt's path!

HIGHWAY

The FORD PEELS OUT of the driveway and joins the road,

spewing exhaust. It's an old vehicle that doesn't

maneuver well.

IN FORD

Jeff mashes the gas pedal. The ENGINE STRAINS,

BACKFIRING. Amy looks back, sees the Peterbilt joining

the road.

A SHOTGUN BLAST SHATTERS the passenger WINDOW! Amy

screams as glass showers the cab. Jeff swerves wildly.

He swivels his head right, sees --

FIREBIRD

kicking up a cloud of dust as it pulls alongside the Ford

on the right-hand shoulder.

The driver, Billy, is levelling a shotgun through the

window.

JEFF

cranks the wheel.

IN FIREBIRD

Billy triggers a BLAST!

AMY

yelps as the passenger-side MIRROR DISINTEGRATES!    She

whips around, sees --

CADILLAC DEVILLE

pulling even with them on Jeff's side. The drive, Al,

leers as he spins the wheel and creases the Ford --

CRUNCH!

JEFF

raises the PISTOL and FIRES!

HIGHWAY

The Ford is sandwiched between the Cadillac and Firebird

as they race down the highway with the Peterbilt in the

rear.

JEFF

lets out a cry as they carom off the Cadillac. Blood

flows in a trickle down his neck. Amy sees it,

panicking.

Amy raises the rifle, thrusts the barrel awkwardly out

the window and aims at Billy. She FIRES wildly -- BANG!

BILLY

grins as the SHOT WHISTLES past harmlessly. He reloads

the SHOTGUN, snaps it shut and RETURNS FIRE -- BLAM!

HIGHWAY

The BLAST hits the Ford's side-mounted toolbox.     The door

flies open. Tools scatter on the road!

BILLY

veers away, swearing, as hammers and chisels and power

tools hit the asphalt and bounce up into his path.

The front end of the extension ladder comes free from the

lumber rack and hinges into his path, SMASHING the

WINDSHIELD!

Billy swears and jerks the wheel, steering away. He

glances up suddenly, sees Jeff aiming the pistol.

The PISTOL FIRES!

Billy slams backward against the headrest, hit in the

face. There's blood everywhere. The car careens toward

the shoulder.

HIGHWAY

The Firebird hits a mound of earth, flies through the air

and lands with a CRASH!

IN PETERBILT

Red sees the crash, scowling. He presses the gas and

pulls closer, taking Billy's place alongside the Ford.

IN FORD

Amy sees the Peterbilt advancing. Whipping her head to

the other side, she sees Al raising a pistol.

Al jacks the trigger -- BLAM!    BLAM!

ON PETERBILT

a STRAY BULLET SLICES the hydraulic brake line running to

the trailer. The HOSE HISSES and whips through the air!

IN PETERBILT

Red swears and lets the truck fall back, swearing. Up

ahead is a long, curving downgrade. He taps the brakes.

There is a jolt as the trailer bumps the tractor.

CONTINUED:

He realizes:    The trailer's got no brakes.

HIGHWAY

The Peterbilt descends the grade, letting out a RAPID-

FIRE BLAT of BACKFIRES. It's gaining speed, bearing down

on the Ford.

IN FORD

Amy turns in the seat, terrified. The truck looms

closer. Jeff keeps the gas pedal on the floor.

They are flying into a hairy curve.

IN PETERBILT

Red struggles to stay in control. Every time he applies

the brakes, the unchecked trailer jars the cab forward.

The Peterbilt races into the curve.

Red has no choice. He has to pump the brakes and risk

jackknifing or the truck will fly off the road

altogether.

He hits the brakes!

HIGHWAY

The huge TRUCK SCREECHES on the asphalt, tires smoking,

cab and trailer folding at right angles!

Then, unexpectedly, the trailer disconnects from the cab!

IN CADILLAC

Flanking the Peterbilt, Al glances to the side and sees

the trailer come untethered from the cab.

Now the trailer is an unguided missile, weaving drunkenly

back and forth across the blacktop.

Al tries to swerve away. The trailer streaks toward him.

Al SLAMS on the BRAKES, screaming!

HIGHWAY

The trailer piles into the Cadillac. There is a huge

IMPACT as trailer and Cadillac are reduced to scrap

metal!

And just as this is happening...

PETERBILT

blasts into the rear of the Ford, jarring it forward with

a CRUNCH of METAL and taillights!

JEFF

slams against the wheel. Amy is thrown against the

dashboard. The Ford is being propelled downhill by the

Peterbilt.

HIGHWAY

The two vehicles are now locked together, gaining speed

as they hurtle down the grade.

JEFF

jams the pistol through the rear pass-through window and

FIRES at Red in the truck. BULLETS PING off the grille.

The GUN CLICKS empty.

IN PETERBILT

Red hits the brakes, but it's no use. The bumpers are

meshed. The two vehicles plunge downhill, skidding

sideways.

Up ahead, a concrete bridge spans a deep gorge.

HIGHWAY

The Peterbilt and Ford fly onto the bridge. The big

truck glances off a railing. The vehicles suddenly come

unlocked.

The FORD plows into the concrete railing with a CRASH!

The PETERBILT creams it from behind and caroms away,

SKIDDING the length of the bridge before SMACKING the

opposite railing!

INSIDE ROAD

Jeff grimaces. In front of them, the concrete railing

has broken away. Debris falls 300 feet to the bottom of

the gorge. The Ford's right front tire hangs in the air.

Jeff looks at Amy.   She looks wildly adrenalated, eyes

wide.

Amy looks back at him.   She expels a long breath and

nods.

Jeff forces his upper body through the driver's window

and looks over the Ford's roof at the Peterbilt.

JEFF'S POV - PETERBILT

It's facing them, 50 yards away on the bridge. The

engine is dead. STEAM HISSES from the crumpled radiator.

One tire is shredded.

There is blood on the broken windshield.

BACK TO JEFF

sitting in the driver's window. He squints toward the

truck, searching for any sign of Red. There is none.

Jeff drops back into the cab. The dashboard is crushed

against Amy's legs. She tries to wriggle free.

CONTINUED:

Jeff blinks. He climbs out of the Ford, runs around to

Amy's side and yanks the door. It comes open with a

CREAK of METAL.

Behind Jeff on the bridge, a MOTOR KICKS OVER.   He

whirls.

JEFF'S POV - PETERBILT

EXHAUST BELCHES from the smokestacks. Red is behind the

wheel. His face is covered with blood. He stares

hatefully.

With a RASP of GEARS, the Peterbilt lurches forward.

BACK TO JEFF

He pushes against the dashboard with life-or-death

urgency.

Amy struggles and struggles to free her legs.

Amy glances toward the Peterbilt, terrified.

PETERBILT

creeps toward the Ford. The truck's grille is smashed.

One wheel RIM SCRAPES the asphalt. It gains speed.

IN FORD

Jeff crawls over Amy and tries pushing with his legs.

She winces as the metal cuts into her skin. Jeff

strains.

PETERBILT

rams the rear of the FORD -- CRASH! It jars the pickup

farther through broken concrete guardrail.

IN FORD

Jeff and Amy are thrown forward by the impact. The

Peterbilt's ENGINE ROARS. It's pushing them over the

edge!

IN PETERBILT

Red's eyes burn as he presses the accelerator and forces

the pickup farther through the broken railing.

FORD

lurches through the widening gap in the railing.

Concrete sails into the canyon. The front tires hang

over the void.

IN FORD

Jeff strains against the dashboard. It won't give.     He

whips around, swearing, and leaps from the Ford.

ON BRIDGE

Jeff runs to the Peterbilt and jumps on the driver's side

running board, grasping the door handle.

Red heaves the door open suddenly. It strikes Jeff's

head with a crack! He falls backward to the ground.

IN PETERBILT

Red presses the gas, yelling over the ENGINE ROAR. The

railing is giving way. He sees Jeff struggling to his

feet.

CONTINUED:

He looks down.   Jeff is no longer visible.   Red frowns.

Suddenly the passenger side door flies open and Jeff

surges into the cab, landing on Red, clawing at his eyes!

They grapple in the cab. Red swings an elbow into Jeff's

face -- crack. Jeff drives a fist to his jaw!

The steering wheel drifts counter-clockwise as the truck

inches forward, ramming the Ford closer to the precipice.

Red gets his hands around Jeff's neck as the steering

wheel continues to move counter-clockwise...

ON BRIDGE

The truck is no longer hitting the Ford squarely.

Instead, the Peterbilt's right front tire is riding up

and over the cargo bed, crushing the left side of the

Ford under its massive weight.

IN PETERBILT

Red has both hands around Jeff's windpipe.    He glances up

for a second, reacts, but it's too late.

ON BRIDGE

The Peterbilt is surging up the driver's side of the

Ford, using the pickup like a ramp!

IN FORD

Amy screams as the left side of the cab is flattened

under the Peterbilt's weight!

ON BRIDGE

For an instant, the Peterbilt's front tires seem to hang

in the air... then the truck is falling!

IN PETERBILT

Red and Jeff are thrown forward in the cab, still

flailing at each other, as the truck plunges nose-first

into the gorge.

Then it jerks to a halt in mid-air!

ON BRIDGE

The left rear set of wheels on the trailer is snagged on

the thick rebar reinforcement in the crumbled concrete

railing.

The Peterbilt is dangling nose-down from the bridge!

IN PETERBILT

Jeff slams into the windshield. Red lands on top of him.

Loose objects from the cab rain against the windshield.

They grapple. Red grabs Jeff's arm and twists sharply,

forcing it at an impossible angle. Their faces are

inches apart.

He headbutts Jeff viciously -- crack! Blood erupts from

Jeff's nose and mouth. Red is about to deliver another

blow when...

... the windshield falls away! The loose items in the

cab plummet 300 feet to the canyon floor below.

Jeff drops through the windshield opening. He clings to

the center support column. His legs dangle over the

hood.

Red slips through the opening, his hand locking on the

steering wheel at the last instant.

The windshield sails away into the gorge.

ON BRIDGE

The iron REBAR GROANS. It's beginning to give way under

the weight of the truck. The truck slips slightly.

ON PETERBILT

Jeff feels the truck shifting. He grabs the windshield

wiper blade with his free hand. The blade snaps away.

Red is clinging to the steering wheel. He flails at Jeff

with his feet, swearing. Jeff is barely out of reach.

Jeff looks to the side. There is a grabhandle on the

corner of the cab. He reaches with his free hand and

seizes the handle.

ON BRIDGE

The REBAR GROANS. The truck is wedged against the Ford.

As the truck slips, it forces the Ford closer to the

edge.

ON PETERBILT

Jeff clings to the handle. He reaches for the passenger

side door handle, working his way up toward the bridge.

REBAR

gives away once more and --

JEFF

scales the cab, finding more handholds.   He climbs past

the passenger door.

Behind him, Red is working his way higher in the same

manner. He grabs Jeff's foot, trying to pull him off the

cab.

Jeff kicks free and climbs past the sleeping compartment.

Red grabs the door handle. Jeff boots the door release

button.

The passenger door flies open!

Red falls away as the door opens. He's clinging to the

open passenger door, suspended over the gorge.

IN FORD

Amy breathes in sharply, feeling the Ford move closer to

the edge. She struggles to free her legs from the

dashboard.

JEFF

climbs higher. The Peterbilt slips again.    Below, Red

loses his grip and almost falls.

Jeff hauls himself onto the bridge with a final gasp of

exertion. He runs to the passenger side of the Ford.

CONTINUED:

The Ford teeters precariously. Any move could send it

over the edge. Jeff can only extend his hand to Amy over

the void.

With a huge effort, Amy frees herself from the dashboard

and reaches for Jeff's outstretched hand just as --

PETERBILT

comes free from the rebar!

AMY

takes hold of Jeff's hand.

PETERBILT

plummets into the canyon!

RED

screams!

PETERBILT

seems to fall forever... before landing with a huge

EXPLOSION!

ON BRIDGE

Jeff and Amy fall backward on the road. Down below,

secondary EXPLOSIONS rock the canyon. Jeff takes Amy in

his arms.

He looks into her eyes.   Their lips meet in a kiss and

we --

EXT. RED'S HOUSE - DAY

Police cars and official vehicles are parked outside the

house. RADIOS CHATTER. Yellow crime tape holds back

onlookers and news reporters.

Cops and evidence technicians work the scene. A

criminalist photographs stolen property as it's carried

out of the barn.

A plainclothes FBI AGENT closes a cellphone and walks

over to where Jeff and Amy are sitting at a picnic table.

They are battered and bandaged.

Jeff nods soberly.

Amy watches as cops stack windshields outside the barn.

CONTINUED:

Up ahead, a television news helicopter is landing on the

road. A cameraman, reporter and producer hurry over.

Jeff watches the news crew, a bemused expression.   It

seems like a million years ago...

The FBI Agent shakes his head, disdainful.

He escorts them to a waiting sedan. As they climb in,

Jeff looks back over his shoulder, surveying the scene

one last time.

He gets in and the car pulls away just as the frenzied

news crew arrives, mikes and cameras at the ready,

running alongside the departing sedan, shouting

questions.

Through the rear window, we see Jeff putting his arm

around Amy, pulling her close as we hear:

EXT. HOUSE - AERIAL - DAY

Over this last line, the sedan drives away, and we CLIMB

HIGHER and HIGHER AWAY FROM the bristling crime scene

until the ranch house is just one in a town of modest

houses and the pink desert floor spreads out endlessly in

every direction.

