FADE IN:

One A.M. on a hellish summer night in Spanish Harlem.

snores like a chainsaw in the upstairs sleeping quarters.

A FAN WHINES as a firefighter channel surfs.

A rookie firefighter shines chrome on the pumper.

A firefighter plays chess with a neighborhood kid.     SALSA

BLASTS from somewhere.

spills light onto a street of aging, neglected buildings

as people beat the heat in open windows, on stoops and

street corners.

laps water from a dripping hydrant.

NYFD Lt. GORDY PITT strains as he works the handle of an

old-time, hand-cranked ice cream maker. It's a tough job

requiring strength, patience and determination. In a

nutshell, that's Gordy.

Firefighter JUNIOR MONTINE, black Panamanian descent,

watches Gordy crank away.

Gordy keeps cranking.

They see a FIREFIGHTER from the other company. He has

fallen through a gaping hole in the floor of the hallway

above. He's pinned under a large section of heavy

debris, coughing and screaming for help as fire rages

around him. To Junior and Mike --

They turn the hose on the flames as Gordy moves to the

trapped firefighter. Gordy tries lifting the debris,

can't budge it. He starts chopping at it with the axe.

Chunks of plaster fly as the axe bites again and again.

Gordy hacks off a large piece of debris. He levers his

axe under the portion still trapping the firefighter.

Mike moves to help. Gordy heaves up on the axe. The

debris lifts. He heaves harder. It lifts more,

until...

Mike slides the firefighter out. Gordy yanks his axe

free. The debris collapses. Gordy moves to the

firefighter.

takes off. Charges the next flight of stairs. Reaches

the fifth floor. Tries to reach six, but there's too

much fire. He's beaten back... but not before he hears

the FAINT sound of SCREAMING.

Gordy looks down the fifth floor hallway to an apartment

door at the end. Between him and the door is the gaping

hole in the floor. It's too big to jump. He starts

running. He's gonna jump it.

Gordy reaches the edge of the hole. Leaps with all he's

got. At the same time, he swings the axe, point-first.

Slams it into a spot high on the wall, and...

Gordy swings over the hole on the axe handle.

He hits the other side running. Drives a shoulder into

the door at the end of the hall.

Gordy bursts in. It's an inferno. He looks up. Knocks

his axe on the ceiling. Hears desperate POUNDING back.

Gordy climbs a table. Starts whacking upward with the

axe, attacking the peeling, crumbled plaster overhead.

Gordy is trying to hack a hole into the room above, but

he's not doing it fast enough. He won't beat the fire.

Gordy calls down to his men.

Beat.   Mike and Junior pass the hose up.

Gordy aims the nozzle at the hole he started in the

ceiling. Turns it on full jet.

Gordy's barely able to hold the hose as the high-pressure

stream bites into old, decayed plaster.

Bit by bit the ceiling falls away.       Gordy's almost

through to the room above, when...

Falling debris severs the hose. Gordy's lost pressure.

He hasn't broken through. The building's coming down.

He's gotta get outta there.

Gordy's not going anywhere. Picks up the axe.       Attacks

the hole again furiously, until finally...

breaks through! A small hole, which he quickly widens,

to reveal... a terrified Latino family gaping down at

him, their room ablaze around them. Gordy reaches up.

Speaks to them in Spanglish --

Gordy lowers the family through the floor hole.

Gordy carries the family's small child outside. He

passes the child to its grateful parents, while...

The rescued Firefighter sits on a curb looking at a hero

and shaking his head in disbelief and admiration.

ANNE PITT, thirties, reaches out and KILLS the ALARM.

She rolls over. The other half of the bed's empty. We

hear a CHILD'S VOICE from another room.

Anne opens the door to find an exhausted Gordy sitting on

the floor with their four-year-old son, MATT. They're

building a K'nex spaceship.

She feels Matt's forehead.    Gordy's done it already.

She leans down and kisses him.      There's passion in it.

She yawns.    Starts heading out.

Gordy holds Matt in his arms as water pours over them.

It's the second child he's held in the last few hours.

This one is his, this one is safe at home and unafraid:

what a father wants for his child. We see the deep

affection Gordy has for his son. He holds Matt tightly,

skin to skin, and kisses the boy's wet head...

Anne opens the shower door.       She's on the phone.

She leads Matt out. Closes the shower door. Gordy

sticks his face into the water. Looks back, finds...

Two bare butts, Anne's and Matt's, are pressed against

the shower door's foggy glass. OFF Gordy, laughing --

It appears the entire neighborhood's crammed against the

chain-link fence around the court, yelling and cheering

as a team of local kids from the NYFD Athletic League

plays a team of local kids from the NYPD Athletic League.

Gordy's an NYFD coach, exhorts his team at the top of his

lungs.

The rivalry's intense. The game close.       The noise

deafening. Bets are going down.

NYFD goes up by one in the final minute.

Gordy disses a cop coaching the opposing team.

LUIS is one of Gordy's kids. A small but talented

fifteen-year-old. Luis steals the ball. Drives for an

unguarded lay-up to put the team up by three... And

misses. An opponent recovers the ball. The flow shifts

toward the other end, but Luis is slow adjusting,

devastated at missing the easy "two." Gordy yells at him

to defend.

Luis shakes it off. Hustles back on "D" as his man gets

the ball. The opponent's a step ahead. Goes up... And

Luis gets there to reject him. The crowd loves it. The

BUZZER SOUNDS. NYFD wins.

In the game's immediate aftermath. NYFD celebrating

around them. Gordy's proud of Luis.

OFF Gordy, smiling at Luis...

The crowds are gone. Gordy checks his watch and starts

off, when a SOUND draws his attention.

Luis walks along the inside of the chain-link fence

around the court. A neighborhood gangbanger and his crew

match Luis step for step outside the fence, rattling the

fence, clearly trying to intimidate him.

Gordy stalks walking toward them.    Calls --

Seeing Gordy approach, the gangbanger and crew drift off.

Reaching Luis --

But Gordy sees Luis is scared. And he sees the

gangbanger and crew hovering nearby waiting for Gordy to

go.

THROUGH the window, we see Gordy delivering Luis to a

Latin man, clearly Luis's father and the bodega's owner.

We don't hear the words, but we can tell Gordy's

complimenting the boy to his dad.

Gordy emerges.    Checks his watch.   Whistles up a taxi.

Traffic jam on Park Avenue South. Gordy's anxious.

Checks his watch. He's late. To the cabbie --

Anne waits on the corner with Matt, playing with his

spaceship. She checks her watch. It's five of twelve.

Fifth Avenue's also a parking lot.

He jams money in the pay dish.

Gordy exits the cab and takes off running.

checks her watch again.   She's pissed now.

In b.g., a cop leaves his police cart to write a ticket.

A caravan of Lincoln Navigators passes Anne and turns

east on 68th.

turns onto 68th. As he runs, he jumps, trying to see

Anne and Matt over other pedestrians.

In b.g., the Navigators pull up at a building flying the

Colombian flag. Latin and American men in suits get out

of the Navigators.

Gordy dodges pedestrians.     Still trying to get a glimpse

of Anne and Matt.

The cop we saw writing tickets earlier is walking the

other way. Gordy nearly collides with him. At the last

moment, the traffic cop shuffles Gordy aside.

Gordy reaches the corner. Sees Anne and Matt. Whistles.

In b.g., behind Gordy, we see the cop get into a brown

Ford.

hear the WHISTLE.     Matt sees Gordy.

Matt waves.

waves back, shrugs an apology to Anne as he starts across

the street, when...

suddenly lights up the intersection.

In SLOW MOTION:

wave rolls up 68th past Madison...

erupts behind Anne and Matt...

We hear the ENORMOUS BANG of the explosion...

are sucked into millions of fragments, a hailstorm of

glass...

-- an engine block -- flies from the ball of flame...

instinctively pulls her child to her...

sees the engine block tumbling through the air toward his

wife and son.

His scream is lost in the thunderous ROAR all around.

The engine block is about to hit Anne and Matt, when...

A FedEx TRUCK, WINDOWS SHATTERED, SKIDS past, wiping out

Gordy's line of sight. When the truck clears...

Anne and Matt are gone. The corner's empty.   Just Matt's

spaceship, slowly falling to the ground...

There's a horrible SCREECH. A TAXI SKIDS sideways to

avoid the FedEx truck and hits Gordy. He's in the air,

tumbling, then smacks to the ground.

Gordy looks up, through the smoke and falling debris.

Then struggles to his hands and knees.

He tries to stand, then falls down, screaming in pain, a

large shard of glass embedded in his leg.

People come to help him, but Gordy only cares about

finding Anne and Matt. He looks around desperately but

can't see them, when...

His eyes go to the spaceship, in pieces on the pavement.

Gordy screams out his agony --

The blast detonated here. Some men from the Navigators

are dead. MIKE BRANDT is not. Rises from the

devastation, gun in hand, as SIRENS wail in the distance.

Emergency personnel - EMS, NYPD, NYFD -- swarm the area.

Two white plastic sheets cover two bodies.

Across the street, PARAMEDICS work on Gordy's leg.

Gordy's oblivious to the pain.     Shoves him away.

FBI agent JOE PHIPPS ducks under the police tape.     REGGIE

DRAY, a young agent, meets him. As they walk --

He indicates Brandt, talking on a cell phone.

That gets Phipps' interest momentarily. Then, as they

continue toward the consulate, he notices security

cameras on the building.

Phipps' eyes go to the white sheets up the street.

In b.g., Mike, the veteran firefighter in Gordy's engine

company, looks under the sheets with a cop.

Junior puts a gentle hand on Gordy's shoulder.

Gordy looks up him, meets his eyes.

Mike has walked up, lays a comforting hand on Gordy.

Junior spots a news camera crew focusing on Gordy's

grief, calls at a cop.

Phipps, approaching with Dray, addresses the same cop.

The cop begins moving the camera crew back.     Phipps

continues to Gordy.

A Paramedic looks up at Mike.

Phipps has heard and understands.      To Dray, re:

bodies --

Dray goes. Phipps turns to Gordy and the two

firefighters standing with him. Addresses Mike --

Beat.   Mike nods.   To Gordy --

Mike puts a restraining hand on Gordy.

Beat.   Gordy eases up.   Then, after a moment, defeated --

Beat.   Phipps sees that's all he's gonna get.

Phipps goes. Gordy looks over as the bodies of Anne and

Matt are placed on gurneys and rolled away. Chalk

outlines are all that remain of his family. Beat.

Walking back to the consulate.    He approaches Brandt.

Gordy's on a gurney on an I.V., his thigh heavily

bandaged. Junior and the rookie, Ronnie, are with him,

but there's no chatter -- Gordy's shut down, oblivious to

everyone around him.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Mike is on a cell phone nearby as Sal, the other veteran

from the engine company, enters and approaches him. Into

the phone --

Mike turns his attention to Sal, who's clearly blown away

by the bad news that brought him here --

Mike goes back to the phone, and Sal crosses to Gordy.

He puts a hand on Gordy's shoulder, grips it firmly.

Gordy sees him, but says nothing.

Gordy can't go there.     Beat.     Sal releases his grip.

Junior, who stepped off to talk to a cop, now comes back.

Gordy looks over.     What Junior just said has triggered

something.

Gordy yanks out his I.V., and starts to get up.

But Gordy's already on his feet, already moving.

A well-lit, sectioned-off area of the garage secured by a

chain-link fence.

Phipps enters.      As he passes Dray, already there --

Phipps moves to a FORENSIC EXPERT hovering over a table

of small fragments.

He picks up a microchip.

Phipps moves to the next work area, where another

FORENSIC EXPERT studies video from a consulate

surveillance camera.

in super slow-mo, we see a cop -- the one who later

bumped into Gordy -- in front of the consulate. His hat

is pulled down over his eyes, almost concealing his

tinted glasses. As the cop faces more toward the camera,

the expert freeze-frames. To Phipps --

Phipps keeps moving, enters an eerie recreation of the

blast site. Streets, buildings, etc. are marked out on

the garage floor. Pieces of the Navigators rest in front

of the area marked "consulate;" parts of an NYPD traffic

scooter rest in front of the Navigators; "X's" mark where

Anne and Matt were standing.

Phipps crosses to another AGENT.

Dray walks up.

Gordy, accompanied by Mike and Ronnie, sits in front of a

video monitor. Phipps and Dray look on.

a police cart pulls up outside the consulate.

The cop gets out of the scooter.

The cop tickets a vehicle, then walks west out of frame.

reverses the video, freeze-frames on the cop.

Beat.   Gordy looks back at the grainy image of the cop.

A bagpiper plays "Amazing Grace."

REVEAL Gordy holding Matt's small coffin as Anne's is

lowered into the ground. Gordy's men are around him,

along with many other NYFD personnel, family and friends.

A second bagpiper farther away in the cemetery, picks up

the song, begins playing it in a round with the first.

Matt's coffin is taken from Gordy.    As it is lowered...

A third bagpiper, farther away still, begins playing the

song with the other two. One by one the first and second

bagpipers finish their rounds, until there is just the

third -- a haunting, mournful wail off into the distance.

And then...

There's only silence.

Gordy stands at an open closet door. He leans in, buries

his face in Matt's clothes and smells them. Smells his

son.

The TV is ON LOW, tuned to the NEWS.    Gordy is alone,

slumped in a chair.

has roused from his despondency, TURNS UP the VOLUME as

the report (containing visuals) continues --

watches as Ephraim Ortiz-Dominguez a Latin man in his

forties, comes on the screen.

An FBI SURVEILLANCE TEAM has taken over the office.

Three agents work video and audio recording devices.

A camera points out the window to a line of storefronts

across the street. The lights are on in one building

with a sign reading "IPC" (Indigenous People's Committee).

The FBI agents listen to live audio from the IPC office.

What they hear, however, is ROSETTA SCREAM as a DOOR

CRASHES open.

GLASS SHATTERS. THINGS are BROKEN.

The video monitors show Gordy wrecking the IPC office

with a baseball bat.

Gordy smashes office equipment left and right. ORTIZ-

DOMINGUEZ and ROSETTA cower as Gordy vents his pent-up,

end-of-the-world rage using the bat the way we saw him

use a fire axe.

Gordy approaches Ortiz-Dominguez with the bat.      Backs him

up against a desk.

The FBI agents crash in.

Gordy just stares down at Ortiz-Dominguez.

Gordy still doesn't move.

Beat.   Then Gordy swings the bat.   Hard.   And...

Destroys the computer monitor next to Ortiz-Dominguez.

Gordy tosses the bat aside.    To the shaking Latin --

Gordy sits across from Phipps.    Dray is present.

Beat.   Phipps sees it's pointless to insist.   To Dray --

Dray heads out, passing Mike Brandt, who enters.

Gordy just looks at him.

Brandt lets "thinks" sink in.

Beat.   Brandt proffers a business card.

Gordy takes it.    Just sits there a long moment, then --

Beat.   Brandt and Phipps don't have an answer.

Gordy talks to a Latin reporter, ERNIE OROSCO.

Orosco searches for a starting point.   Then --

As Orosco continues...

Over the course of a week:

1. Gordy takes pictures, etc., off a wall in his home.

He pins up photos of Anne and Matt at the top of the

wall. Beneath them he pins up a large map of Colombia.

2. At the New York Public Library, Gordy uses microfilm

files and computer access to the web to search out

information on Colombia and The Wolf.

3. Gordy pins up various Colombia-related articles and

pictures on the wall, including the surveillance camera still of

The Wolf from the front page of The New York Post.

4.   Gordy draws a line around the guerrilla zone.

5.   Gordy circles and labels the ELC-controlled area.

6. Gordy watches a documentary about Colombia which

shows rebels, army troops, death squads, firefights, and with

atrocities and bodies on both sides.

OFF Gordy's packed wall...

As Gordy closes the front door, REVEAL Mike, the

firefighter, who's just come in and now stands staring at

the wall, clearly whelmed by the level of compulsion this

must have required.

Gordy's obsessed, totally consumed by his project.      He

points at a picture of heavily-armed guerrillas.

Gordy indicates a newspaper article.

Mike interrupts, trying to divert him to something else.

Gordy doesn't react.     Beat.      More serious now --

Gordy hears the tone. Looks over and meets Mike's eyes,

seeing the genuine concern there.

OFF Gordy...

TV ON in b.g. Gordy's with Mike, Sal, Junior and Ronnie.

They've emptied a few pitchers.

He gets up and heads for the bar.        To Gordy --

Ronnie yells over from the bar --

The guys look over as the bartender TURNS UP the VOLUME

on the TV.

we see the President's National Security Advisor step up

to a podium to give a statement.

Cheers throughout the bar.         Mike quiets them.

Big cheers now. Toasts all around. Everyone in the

place is happy for Gordy, who sits there a moment trying

to absorb the news, then buries his face in his hands.

The Dalmatian whizzes on the hydrant outside.

Sal plays chess in the open door with the neighbor kid.

Ronnie polishes chrome on the truck.

Gordy holds up the broken remains of his ice cream maker

as Junior looks on.

Art's sleeping. Gordy opens his locker. There are old

pictures of Anne and Matt still taped inside. He glances

at them quickly, then pulls out his tools.

Mike's channel-surfing again. Gordy goes by the door,

carrying his tools and looks in.

Whereupon Mike lands on CNN.

And then we're on another channel.

But Gordy has charged in and grabs the remote from Mike,

switches channels back to CNN.

we see a CNN anchor with an over-the-shoulder graphic

showing the still of the cop from the consulate

surveillance camera with "The Wolf" superimposed.

On screen, we now see a homemade video of a masked figure

wearing a camo floppy hat and a hunter's mesh face mask

with a strange-smiling face painted on it in camo earth

tones. The Wolf's body is hidden shadow, the voice

digitally altered to a deep bass growl.

We see Gordy's demeanor shift, retreating to the

obsessive, seething hatred he showed before.

The agent gets the attention of an IMMIGRATION SUPERIOR,

and the two of them confer out of earshot a moment. The

Superior looks over at Gordy. Then approaches.

The customs Superior closes the door.      Beat.

He opens the door, addresses two armed policemen in

Spanish. Turning back to Gordy --

He holds out Gordy's passport.     Beat.   Gordy takes it,

starts out. As he goes --

Gordy stops, turns back. He says nothing, but the look

on his face speaks volumes.

Gordy doesn't respond.    Just turns and goes.

DAY

Gordy's flanked by the armed policemen, one with a

Rottweiler. As they walk, a PA announcement in Spanish

is repeated in English...

OFF Gordy, having heard the announcement --

The highway terminates here, far short of Colombia. The

idea is to inhibit the northbound migration of people and

drugs. From this point south lies the Darien Gap, a

thick rain forest traversed only by rough trail.

A cab with a Panama City logo pulls up at road's end.

Gordy gets out with the Panamanian CAB DRIVER. The Cab

Driver indicates a Panamanian man waiting there with a

.9mm on his hip.

Ever and Gordy exchange nods.

The Cab Driver indicates distant mountains.

Gordy pulls out his wallet, pays the Cabbie.

The Driver gets back inside the cab.    Out the window --

He drives off. Gordy looks to Ever. Ever smiles,

motions him to follow, then turns south and starts

walking. As Gordy falls in behind...

Gordy and Ever pass through pristine tropical rain

forest.

rushing fiercely through the jungle, Ever uses his

machete to cut two lengths of bamboo. He hands one to

Gordy and indicates how they'll ford the stream. Gordy

nods, then follows Ever's lead into the perilous, belly-

deep water. They struggle to maintain their balance,

even with the sticks. When they reach the opposite bank,

Ever signs okay to Gordy and smiles.

They pass the carcass of a crashed and burned-out

helicopter, when...

Two dangerous-looking men armed with assault rifles step

out of nowhere onto the path ahead of Gordy and Ever.

Gordy and Ever stop. Gordy glances at Ever. Ever's

focused on the men and clearly doesn't like what he sees.

Gordy looks back. The armed men advance toward them

carefully, rifles in the ready position. Gordy watches

them approach, wondering who they are and what they're

going to do. Ever, frightened, takes a half-step back,

then swings the length of bamboo fast and hard, and...

She does it again.

She smiles. At the sound of a sharp WHISTLE, however,

she runs back quickly, passing Gordy and rejoining her

family. Her father hands her a machete and a Zippo

lighter, says something to her. Whereupon the little

girl returns to Gordy and holds the items out to him.

Beat. Gordy takes them.

The little girl runs back again, and Gordy watches the

refugees disappear around the bend. Then turns back

uphill and approaches the line the little girl drew in

the dirt. Looks down at it. Crossing over means he

walks into a world dangerous enough to cause these people

to flee for their lives, and...

Just as Gordy charged into the fire-engulfed tenement

past a tide of more sensible rats going the other way, he

now steps over the line and advances into Colombia.

Where the rain forest of Darien continues in Colombia.

Darkness sets in as Gordy follows the trail downhill.    At

night, the JUNGLE'S EVEN NOISIER. When...

EVERYTHING GOES QUIET. Gordy slows. And suddenly,

AUTOMATIC WEAPONS begin to POP somewhere. Not close, but

not far, either. A FEW BURSTS, some SINGLE SHOTS -- the

call and response of an ambush -- and then SILENCE. And

then the nighttime JUNGLE NOISES return.

As Gordy walks on...

The sun is already cooking the jungle as Gordy reaches a

break in the trees, sees a small town ahead.

