A FLASH OF LIGHTNING rips the HOLLYWOOD PICTURES LOGO away,

and we find ourselves in the middle of...

SUPERIMPOSED: SOUTH CHINA SEA

The dark blue waters roil and boil and foam. THUNDER CRACKS.

LIGHTING FLASHES.

An enormous Japanese BATHYSCAPHE free-falls through the

water. An autonomous fifteen-man submersible. Almost

futuristic in its design. The nose cone is an amazing ultra

high-pressure plexi-dome. LETTERING along the side tells us

this is the "SHINKAI 90000."

COMPUTER PRINTED across the SCREEN are the WORDS:

ASSIGNMENT:		GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATION.

SUB-OCEANIC SEISMIC RESEARCH.

TECTONIC PLATE SURVEILLANCE.

ADDENDUM:		ABOUT TO BREAK THE WORLD'S RECORD

FOR THE DEEPEST DIVE...

The JAPANESE CAPTAIN watches a DLD laser tracking system and

barks one-word questions to his JAPANESE CREW. The Sailors

work the consoles and give clipped monosyllabic answers. The

JAPANESE SCIENCE OFFICERS go over charts on the electronic

position board, a contiuously-shifting graphic representation

of the ocean contours below. Behind them is an elaborate

DEPTH GAUGE with computerized graphics. READ: 34,000 feet and

dropping. The Crew works at a fevered pitch. An ALARM SOUNDS

as the depth gauge sounds 35,000 feet. All eyes on the depth

gauge. Several Science Officers share excited looks.

The excitement builds. Even the Captain's weathered eyes

widen. And then, as the depth gauge hits 35,801 feet below

sea level, the entire Crew breaks into CHEERS, WHOOPS,

HANDSHAKES AND HIGH-FIVES.

As it continues its descent, it passes corroding metal drums

leaking toxic waste, radioactive waste, dumped in the depths,

away from prying eyes, and populated areas. The vessel drops

into the SULU BASIN. Imagine the Grand Canyon under forty

thousand feet of water.

But the Sulu Basin is ten times the size of the Grand Canyon.

Down here, ten thousand fathoms below the storm, all is calm.

The dual TURBO-PROPS on the ear of the submersible KICK ON.

The Bathysaphe is now mobile. It glides down the side of an

enormous rock face, carefully avoiding massive sandstone

pinnacles which jut up from the ocean floor far below.

THE SHINKAI hovers near a gigantic tectonic plate. A ROBOTIC

ARM extends out from under the plexi-dome. Its "hand" is a

high-tech LASER CUTTER. It approaches the plate, steadies,

then fires a direct BLUE BEAM at the bedrock, burns the rock

into magma and cuts a perfect round pattern.

Another ROBOTIC ARM reaches forward, its CLAW rips out the

cut rock from inside the pattern, then takes the sample and

sets it inside a hydro-basket on the submersible's port side.

A desolate, barren, spooky place. Nothing breathes. Nothing

lives. Or so it would appear. The creepy, foreboding MUSICAL

SCORE tells us otherwise. The Shinkai ENTERS a huge ROCK

FISSURE.

The Captain and the Science Officers stare through the plexi

dome and out into the freezing, cobalt blue of the PALAWAN

TROUGH. The MUSIC intensifies as they round each curve. Then,

dead ahead, is the end of the trough, which is half-blocked

by a rock-encrusted embankment.

The MUSIC builds.

The Shinkai approaches the embankment. Slowly starts to glide

up the side. The Captain and Science Officers seem mesmerized

by all the lonely creepiness. They crest the embankment. And

the plexi-domed VIEW FILLS with an unimaginable horror.

As far as the eye can see, the entire murky landscape is

filled with WHALE BONES. A valley of death. Cluttered here

and there, carelessly flung about, are the rusting hulks of

several ships. Seemingly ripped apart. Clusters of shark

cartilage float through the water like white ghosts.

The Captain, the Science Officers and the entire Crew just

stare, frozen in place by the strange horror before them.

The vessel cruises through the valley of death. Everyone is

nervously taking readings, making calculations and adjusting

equipment.

Gone is the excitement and euphoria of the record breaking.

Several Crewmen cast nervous glances out through the plexi

dome. Giant skeletons everywhere.

The Shinkai approaches an eerie-looking rock formation. The

robotic arm comes out. The laser cutter steadies, aims, then

shoots out its blue beam and cuts into the rock.

WHOOSH!! A HUGE JET STREAM OF INKY BLOOD BLASTS OUT OF THE

FORMATION!

The Captain and the Science Officers recoil as the inky stuff

envelopes the plexi-dome, completely blotting out the VIEW.

The Shinkai VANISHES into a huge cloud of inky blood. We HOLD

for a LONG OMINOUS BEAT. And then, like a slow-motion

earthquake, large boulders and giant crevices begin to shift

in the murky waters. WHALE BONES TOPPLE and SCATTER. Several

feet under the ancient silt, something is coming alive.

Everything outside the plexi-dome is still BLACK. Everyone is

staring at the position board, which shows a large section of

the OCEAN FLOOR STARTING TO MOVE, its contours incongruous

with the rest of the graphic representation.

The Science Officers look stunned. The Captain barks

commands. The Crew leaps into high gear.

Then the Captain reverses the trottle, and petal-to-the-metal

he starts to back out.

The inky blood swirls past the plexi-dome. Then suddenly, and

impossibly, the SUBMERSIBLE JERKS TO A HALT. Everybody goes

ass-over-teacups. EQUIPMENT SHATTERS. SPARKS FLY. GLASS

BREAKS. Lots of YELLING in Japanese.

The SHINKAI starts to ROCK and SHAKE. Something has a hold on

it. More EQUIPMENT SHATTERS. Men are thrown about. Then it

stops rocking. The Sailors stop yelling. Everything goes dead

quiet. Frightened eyes share terror-filled looks. A SOUND is

HEARD coming from the exterior of the ship, like feet runing

across the outside of the hull. Very creepy.

The HULL starts to MOAN and CREAK from an UNSEEN PRESSURE.

And then the sub begins to be crushed like it's a beer can.

The metal HULL TORQUES on all sides. RIVETS POP and SNAP.

WATER SPRAYS and SHOOTS. More SPARKS FLY. The STEEL PLATING

DIMPLES, CRUMBLES and SCREAMS in agony. CHAOS. PANDEMONIUM.

And then the SHINKAI IMPLODES. A massive CHURNING SWIRL of

water, metal and men.

THE SAIPAN, a tricked out Jet Foil, built for speed not

looks, gunmetal blue, lean and mean, rips across the choppy

water. The Rolling Stones STREETFIGHTING MAN pours out of the

jet foil, reverberating over the waves, as the CAMERA rushes

right at the windsheild and into...

Stripped down, low frills, high tech... ...where JOHN T.

FINNEGAN, bathed in the last light of day, all taut muscle

and sinew, all business, with every one of his 38 years

etched on his rugged, good looking face, is harnessed into

the steering pylon, wrestling with his steering-sticks,

holding the bouncing jetfoil steady as he can, hauling ass,

propelled, it seems, by the music blasting out of four state

of the art speakers bolted to the metal walls. Light from the

laser imagers plays across Finnegan's face. The face of a man

in his element, on the edge, in control. He barks commands

into his RADIO HEADSET.

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD we see LEILA, a muscular Filipina

clambering over the foredeck. She's dripping wet. Tough as

nails. She turns to Finnegan and "mouths" something into her

headset. Finnegan flashes her his most charming smile.

His HEADSET comes alive withe the SOUND of LEILA bitching in

an unintelligible foreign tongue.

He watches as Leila fights the WIND and SEASPRAY and dogs

tight a series of hatch-latches across the foredeck.

Leila turns and gives him a "jerking-off" sign with her hand.

The Radar Imager suddenly blinks, and goes to black. Dead.

Finnegan taps on the screen. Nothing. Taps on the console.

Still nothing. Simultaneously two more imagers shut down. His

mouth screws tight.

Crammed wall to wall with enough horsepower to fly a 747.

Pumped out of two thumping engines. The domain of a scruffy,

shifty-eyed, likeable little weasel of a mechanical

genius...JOEY PANTUCCI.

Wearing a mechanic's toolbelt, slung sideways across the hips

like a gunslinger, singing the theme to "Gilligan's Island"

over the engine's roar. Way off-key. His hands crammed deep

in a tangle of wires. On the walls are a few pictures: Of a

few major league engines. Of a few major league pinups, and a

few of Pantucci and Finnegan...together in the U.S. Navy...in

front of the Saipan in shinier days.

He tugs at the wires.

Finnegan's voice explodes through his headset...

Unperturbed, Pantucci works at the wires.

Pantucci pulls two wires from the tangle.

He begins to strip the wires with his teeth.

Finnegan peers out of the windscreen, trying to see ahead of

himself.

Pantucci twists one wire around another.

The console lights up. The screens come back on line.

Finnegan is pleased.

Pantucci works his wrench around an engine mount. And his

nervous eyes around six men, big, bad men, standing on the

far side of the engines out in a narrow passage.

A Maori(VIVO). Two Aussies(MASON and MULLIGAN). A

Samoan(MAMOOLI). A Chinese(CHIN). And an Aborigine (BILLY).

Tattooed, armed to the teeth, packed in Kevlar body armor.

Mercenaries. Who would as soon wring your neck as shake your

hand. And a sixth man. HANOVER. The obvious leader.

Smoother than the rest, but still showing the edge of a man

risen from their ranks. He consults his watch with a growing

concern.

Finnegan hits a button on his console. The Stones are

replaced by the first chords of LAYLA.

Pantucci notices Hanover impatiently looking at his watch

again, and nods for a mass of Aussie mean and muscle named

MASON to follow him up a ladder.

He quickly pulls out a wrench, slaps it over a bolt and

tightens it down. The leak stops. He blows on the WRENCH like

it's a six-shooter, then spins it at the speed of light and

holsters it into his toolbelt.

As Finnegan is watching the sea ahead, swathed in the

shrieking Clapton guitar solos, the hatch opens.

Hanover enters, followed by Mason, who leaves the hatch door

ajar.

Finnegan's eyes remain fixed on the sea. His ears on the

Clapton.

Hanover and Mason hold onto any available rail as the boat

slams over the waves.

Hanover looks at the Topo Imager. Holding onto the rail to

keep his balance as the boat slams over the choppy sea.

Finnegan points to a spot in the middle of the map.

Finnegan points to another spot on the map.

Finnegan looks at Mason...at the open hatchway just behind

him...

...and jams the steering sticks full speed ahead. The force

of acceleration tumbles Hanover into the console. Mason

tumbles out the open hatchway, down the stairs behind him. As

he rises, Hanover regards Finnegan for a moment. A smile

flits across his face.

Finnegan's hand finds the console. He hits a button. The

first strains of Led Zepplin's WHOLE LOTTA LOVE comes roaring

out of the speakers.

Finnegan cranks the sound to the max, pulls back on both

steer sticks, and holds on, as the force of acceleration

hammers him into the pylon.

The Saipan roars off into the setting sun, hell bent for

leather. Zepplin screaming in its wake.

Sailing through the mild waters of the South China Sea, a

luxury cruise liner. The FUJI MARU. Top of the line. State of

the art. And absolutely MASSIVE. No expense has been spared.

Breathtaking. Gunfire shatters the serenity of the night.

A group of tony British passengers is shooting skeet. Being

night, the CLAY PIGEONS are glow-in-the-dark. They EXPLODE

over the WATERSPORTS PLATFORM, where TWO JET SKIS swing from

harnesses, and TWO SPEEDBOATS are being hoisted up the side.

Rigged for a formal party. Chinese lanterns sway in the

breeze. A band plays. Hundreds of wealthy Passengers, the men

in tuxedos, the women in drop dead gowns, dripping with

jewelry, dance, flirt, gossip, as an endless stream of

waiters ply the floor with champagne laden trays.

CLOSE ON: The sexiest pair of spiked heels ever to grace the

foot of a woman, stopping at the top of the deck. PAN UP: A

shimmering golden gown, high slit on the sides to reveal a

perfect set of legs, a runway model's body, a cover girl's

face...and a thief's sharp ferret eyes. TRILLIAN. A class act

from top to bottom. A head turner for either sex, and knows

it. She holds an orchid in her hand. Trillian scans the

crowd, looking for her prey...and finds him. Her POV. The

Ship's smug Captain. JEAN BAPTISTE DELCROIX. She fixes the

orchid in her hair just so, about to move...

Trillian looks down to a petite old woman, dressed

impeccably, delicate, frail, her beauty long faded except

from her eyes. Kindness becomes her, like moonlight does the

night.

The Old Woman looks at the orchid. And then at Trillian.

Trillian takes the orchid from her hair, and places it in the

lapel of the woman's jacket.

The smile Trillian bestows on the old woman is loving,

sincere. The moment between them is broken by the keen clear

sound of a silver spoon tapping a crystal champagne flute.

ANGLE ON: The deck where the band stops playing. Voices hush.

Everyone turns to NIGEL CANTON, 65, tall, elegant, every

white hair perfectly in place, impeccably turned out, with

the energy, and enthusiasm of a man half his age. Canton

stands at the head of the pool, in front of a wall sized

aquarium, flanked by his Captain.

The crowd roars with laughter.

Canton lifts his glass.

The crowd swells around Canton. ANGLE ON: The Captain

chatting up some passengers when a woman's voice, seductive,

beguiling, turns his head to...

The Captain's libido rises as he gazes into Trillian's come

hither eyes.

Trillian takes one step closer, until her moist lips are

pursed inches from the captain's.

His breath catches.

Trillian draws even closer. If looks could cause a man to

climax.

Driven to distraction, The Captain turns his attention for a

moment to a passenger introducing his wife.

ANGLE ON: Trillian, turning from the captain into the crowd.

C.U. on her hand by the side of her dress. A man's wallet

held surreptitiously. Her fingers open the wallet, extract a

thin gold card with a black stripe. She discards the wallet,

keeps the card, and disappears into the crowd.

Top of the line. State of the art. The crew is multinational.

English is the common language, but everyone has an accent.

Canton, the picture of self-satisfaction, enters, sipping

champagne.

The Captain stands next to a bank of LASER IMAGING SYSTEMS.

Canton steps up. Looks down at the THERMAL RADAR IMAGER.

Multi-colored LASER IMAGES.

C.U. A crowbar quietly pops the top off a wooden crate to

reveal the lethal looking tip of a torpedo...PULL BACK TO:

Pantucci in the storage hold, surrounded by half a dozen

crates, his wily eyes popped wide with apprehension. He licks

his lips nervously, looks around and whispers into his

headset.

A hand falls on his shoulder, spinning him around to a fist

coming right into his face.

Jimi Hendrix. THE STAR SPANGLED BANNER. Blasting. As the Jet

foil rockets across the waves. Leila, stripped out of her

soaking wet clothes, down to her panties and bra, stands

wiping her dripping wet, magnificently ripped body, with a

dry towel. Leila puts her fingers in her ears.

And then over the headset, over the Hendrix...

Followed by the unmistakable sound of fist hitting flesh.

Finnegan and Leila trade a look.

A massive fist plows into Pantucci's stomach. He drops from

the arms of MULLIGAN, a scar-faced Irishman with a buzz cut.

As quickly as he is doubled over he is yanked up straight by

the man who hit him, VIVO, a merciless Maori, covered by

tattoos, topped off with venom.

Hanover watches calmly as BILLY, the Aborigine, cracks his

fist against the side of Pantucci's head, knocking him out of

Vivo's arms.

BILLY hoists Pantucci. He draws his knife under Pantucci's

bloody nose.

The Chinese merc steps forward, and whaps Pantucci upside the

head with a cruelly accurate crescent kick. Pantucci hits the

wall hard, crumbling. Chin lifts him.

Massive Mason steps forward.

Mason raises his ham of a fist drawing his tree trunk arm

back, taking dead aim at Pantucci's face. He never gets the

punch off. His arm is caught from behind. He looks over his

shoulder to Finnegan. Gripping his wrist. Right in his face.

Mason, enraged, swings with his free hand. Finnegan twists

his arm sharply, sending Mason's head into the steel wall,

knocking the big man senseless. The other mercenaries go to

draw their weapons. Before the guns are out of holsters,

Finnegan swings a spear gun into Hanover's face, an inch from

his eye.

Finnegan cocks the spear. CLICK! Hanover does not blink.

Everyone freezes. With his free hand Finnegan lifts Pantucci

to his unsteady feet, the spear stays poised. Finnegan backs

out of the room.

With that Finnegan leads Pantucci out of the hold, slamming

the door behind him.

Finnegan turns his gaze to Pantucci. It makes the smaller man

quiver.

Finnegan stalks off. Pantucci swallows hard, knowing he means

it.

A man strides down the hall of an executive passageway, his

face obscured in shadows. He has a CANISTER in his hands.

Walks through a door MARKED:

"AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY"

The brain center for the whole ship. Rows of computer

mainframes, laser-guided imagers and D.T. processors. No

humans needed. And none are present. Except one --

The Man strides purposefully down a row of computers, makes a

left, then a right. He knows exactly where he's going. He

arrives at an ultra-high-tech CONSOLE. The cerebellum. Three

similar canisters are plugged into the console. The Man

unscrews the middle canister. Screws his canister into its

place. Sets the TIMER to 0:300 hours. Pushes a button. The

TIMER starts to COUNT DOWN.

All LIT UP and looking beautiful. The wind is stronger. The

party is wilder. The BAND louder. The people drunker. Rain

begins to fall. Everybody moans and heads for cover.

The deck's huge hydralic canopy begins to close, reviving the

party spirit.

A gold card with a black stripe slides into the security lock

of a high tech vault. Lights blink. Tumblers roll. One after

another the electronic locks unlock.

Trillian stands back as the massive vault door swings open.

With a quick look over her shoulder, she enters the vault.

Trillian consults a list, looking for one very specific vault

box.

Finding it, she pulls a lock pick from her fabulous coiffure,

and picks the lock in nothing flat. A pro. Flipping open the

box, Trillian removes the only thing she came for. A dazzling

diamond ring with the center stone the size of an egg. With a

twist, she pops the stone from the setting, holds it up to

admire it in the light...

Trillian grits her teeth, and turns to...Canton, the Captain,

and two burly Chinese security men.

Canton exits. The Captain steps forward, and removes the

diamond ring from Trillian's hand.

He slaps her across the face. Trillian flushes, touches the

drop of blood at her lip...and decks the Captain with a

vicious right cross.

A hatch door bursts open. Trillian is thrown inside. The DOOR

SLAMS SHUT. Trillian looks around. No windows. One door. Lots

of fruit and vegetables.

Trillian accepts the hopelessness of her situation. She takes

an apple, sits down and bites deeply, running her options.

The CANISTER TIMER finishes counting down -- 4 -- 3 -- 2 --

1. It suddenly EMITS a high-energy HUM. Intense electro

static, which builds into...

...A screeching guitar solo... The Allman Brothers Band

pulses out of the speakers. Finnegan is prepping the wound

over Pantucci's eye for sutures.

As he swabs it carefully, Leila is at the helm keeping the

speeding, bouncing, boat on course.

He carefully threads the surgical needle.

The top of another wooden crate is popped revealing the

answer to Pantucci's question: a chilling display of

firepower. Pulse rifles. Hand held gatling guns with laser

sightings. Oblong grenades. The latest in death delivery

systems.

Hanover and his men lift and load. Slamming shells into

chambers. KA- CHANG! KA-CHANG! KA-CHANG! These boys know

their toys.

Finnegan centers the needle over Pantucci's wound.

Finnegan sinks the needle into the wound. Pantucci's SCREAM

rises above the music.

The Fuji Maru cruises through RAIN-LASHED waters. Accompanied

by a very scary MUSICAL SCORE. Then suddenly, in the extreme

foreground, AIR BUBBLES angrily GURGLE to the surface. Then a

WAVE EXPLODES, as if THRASHED from below.

Then another WAVE EXPLODES, forty feet to the right. Then

ANOTHER, eighty feet to the left. And then ALMOST SEEN: Huge,

black, ominous THINGS seem to be SQUIRMING beneath the water.

Heading for the Fuji Maru.

RAIN PELTS the canopy. LIGHTNING FLASHES. THUNDER RUMBLES. We

can HEAR the PARTY inside. MUSIC, laughs and cheers.

The entire ROOM seems to be FRITZING OUT. The lights crackle

on and off. The Captain stands behind the bank of failing

IMAGING SYSTEMS, growing edgier by the moment.

The COM. OFFICER is busy fiddling with the communications and

imaging gear. DISTORTED LIGHTS from the scrambled systems

plays off their faces.

The Captain is confounded, on the edge of panic. Canton

hurries onto the bridge.

Canton storms out. Every piece of electrical equipment on the

bridge starts to shut down.

Where the waves meet the hull, A BALLAST HOLE excretes water.

Suddenly, near the ballast hole, a WAVE EXPLODES, thrashed

from below. Accompanied by the scary foreboding MUSIC again.

Trillian, making the best of a bad situation, is just putting

the finishing touches on a wonderful salad culled from the

stores. As she sits down, spreading a makeshift napkin on her

lap just so, a violent SUCKING SOUND comes from above her.

Trillian's eyes shoot upward. A VICIOUS GURGLING SOUND RACES

through a large PIPE along the ceiling. Trillian leaps to her

feet. Backs away. A little spooked.

An elegant woman sits on the toilet, her gown hiked up

inelegantly, reading "Vogue." As she turns the page the same

strange sound, a violent sucking, comes from inside the

walls, startling her. She looks around the room. Can't see

anything. Shrugs it off. Goes back to her magazine. Turns

another page.

A LONG SCARY BEAT.

And then suddenly -- She SHUDDERS VIOLENTLY and gives a sharp

CRY. Her eyes filled panic. She tries to stand, but she's

JERKED BACK DOWN! Her ARMS FLAIL WILDLY.

Scattering stuff off the counter. She tries to SCREAM, but it

comes out more like a GURGLE. Below her, in the TOILET, there

is a hideous SLURPING SOUND. She manages a final, desperate

scream, a high-pitched WAIL.

Which nobody hears because...

...the Band has kicked into another ROCK SONG. The drunken

revelers whoop and holler, dancing with reckless abandon

ignoring the THUNDER and LIGHTNING. And then...with a loud

BASSO PROFUNDO CLANG, the CRUISE LINER JERKS TO A STOP.

EVERYTHING goes CRASH. PEOPLE TUMBLE. TABLES TOPPLE. The

MUSIC STOPS as the entire Band falls into the pool.

Trillian goes ass-over-teacups, rolling over just in time to

see a wall of BOXES CRASHING straight down on her. SMASH!

She's knocked out cold.

One of the SPEEDBOATS breaks free of its harness. TOPPLES

over the side and drops down into the sea. SPLASH!

Everything goes quiet. Everybody freezes. Panic is a

heartbeat away.

A FLASH OF LIGHTNING lights up the top of the canopy. The

passengers begin to mutter fearfully. From his perch, Canton

fights down his own panic, and addresses the crowd in calm

reassuring tones.

The disquieted crowd turns to Canton.

Suddenly, and quite violently, a WOMAN is SUCKED UNDER THE

WATER -- THWUP! Others swimmers notice and freeze. The Woman

doesn't come back up. And then, THREE more SWIMMERS are

violently JERKED UNDER. All the people in and around the pool

see this and panic. SCREAMING. YELLING. SWIMMING. SWIMMING

and RUNNING. A CRACK OF THUNDER! The Captain calls out --

REMAIN CALM! The pool clears. Everybody backs the hell away

from it. The WATER in the pool BUBBLES, and GURGLES, and then

goes quiet. And then, from somewhere deep within the bowels

of the ship, comes a loud, eerie, primordial YOWL. WE PUSH IN

ON CANTON: His eyes slowly widen. Stunned. His calm replaced

by pure terror.

Off in the distance is the cruiseliner. WE HOLD FOR A LONG,

SILENT, EERIE BEAT. And then the SCREAMING begins...

Blasting through increasingly stormy seas.

Finnegan notices Billy, Mulligan and Vivo setting two

catapult like devices on the front of the deck.

Leila exits. Finnegan's eyes go up from the action on deck to

the radar screen, where a blip, fast moving, right toward the

jet foil catches his attention.

A FLASH OF LIGHTNING REVEALS -- The speedboat from the Fuji

Maru hurtling at the hull! BAAROOOOM!!! The speedboat slams

into the Saipan. Instant FIREBALL.

ANGLE ON: The mercs and Leila slammed to the deck.

A GASH is RIPPED out of the bow. METAL FLIES. WATER SPRAYS.

The new HOLE VOMITS FLAME. Spewing it over the crates.

Hanover and the rest of his men are blown against the walls.

Pantucci DIVES as flying SHRAPNEL PEPPERS the two engines.

Instantly kills one engine. Maims the other. A FIRE starts.

RED WARNING LIGHTS flash and blink. Lighting up the console.

The left steering stick dies in Finnegan's hand.

Mayhem... Fire spews out of the engines. Pantucci sprays a

fire extinguisher frantically. Where the shrapnel entered the

hull water now spurts with every wave. Smoke and water, oil

and fire.

As the Saipan comes to a halt, Finnegan loses play in his

remaining stick.

Finnegan locks the sticks down, and runs out.

TRACK WITH Finnegan running through the smoke filled hold,

past Hanover and the merc's who are pulling themselves off

the floor, right into the...

ENGINE ROOM. Where Pantucci is beside himself in smoke and

sputtering flame.

Finnegan notices something on the floor. He picks up a shard

of the speedboat propeller. Strange. Hanover steps into the

room.

Finnegan looks at the piece of speedboat in his hand.

He shows the piece of speed boat to Hanover. Who stares at

it. Finnegan sees the hint of recognition in his eyes.

Mason grabs Pantucci by the throat, lifting him off the

ground.

Finnegan slams the piece of speed boat into the back of

Mason's knees buckling him to the floor. In the blink of an

eye there is the barrel of a .45 pressed hard against his

head, Hanover at the trigger end.

Hanover cracks Finnegan across the face with the barrel of

the gun. Finnegan's head spins. He touches the corner of his

mouth, and comes away with blood, and a look of murder in his

eyes. Hanover slams a round in the chamber.

Mulligan comes running in.

Everybody stands on deck as Hanover scans the darkness

through a pair of infrared binoculars.

The merc's scatter below deck. Hanover hands the binoculars

to Finnegan.

Finnegan's POV through the binoculars. The Fuji Maru in the

distance, lit up, beautiful.

BAM! BAM! Two grappling hooks fly from the barrels of the two

catapults bolted to the deck, landing on the deck of the Fuji

Maru, which looms above the Saipan. Vivo pulls on the lines

until they go taut. Finnegan, Pantucci, and Leila stand by

watching as the mercs in full assault gear, communication

headsets in place, get ready for action.

Mason swivels the big HARPOON GUN on the bow.

He FIRES the HARPOON. It shoots and SLAMS into the rear deck

of the Fuji Maru.

Swift, athletic, the mercs leap onto the lines and scramble

hand over hand toward the Fuji Maru's deck.

The first mercs reach the Fuji Maru's deck, and toss life

lines down to Hanover.

Hanover hands one line to Finnegan, one to Pantucci. The

third he attaches around his waist.

Finnegan and Pantucci comply.

Hanover hand signals to his men above. The lines go taut.

Finnegan, Pantucci, and Hanover are hoisted to the deck of

the Fuji Maru.

Deathly silent. Not a soul is about. The mercs are deployed

in a close military defense pattern.

Everyone hits a button on their watches.

A thick black hose weaves it's way across the flooded floor,

sucking water. Leila up to her knees in water, wearing a

blast visor, stripped down to her skivvies, wields a welder

against the gaping hole in the hull. As the boat dips in the

waves water sloshes in. Billy sits on the stairs trying to

stay dry. He goes to light a cigarette.

She points the acetalyne tank she works with.

Billy heads for the deck. Leila looks after him in disgust.

She ignites her torch, is about to flick her visor down again

when a loud gurgling, a sucking sound, stops her. She cuts

the torch. Looks around nervously...and then she spots the

suction hose sucking away.

She smiles to herself. Flips the visor, fires the torch, and

goes back to work.

An alert Mulligan leads Finnegan and Pantucci around a

corner. Vivo brings up the rear.

FLASH TO: The deck full of people partying, carousing. The

railing is lined with 15 lifeboats suspended in their

harnesses.

FLASH BACK TO: Mulligan, Finnegan, Pantucci and Vivo staring

at a completely deserted deck. The lifeboat harnesses swing

in the breeze, eerily empty. Mulligan looks back to Vivo.

And then a strange yowl echoes from somewhere deep in the

bowels of the ship. Finnegan and Pantucci trade a look.

And again the yowl. Everyone freezes.

Hanover, Mason, and Chin set foot on the deserted pool deck.

FLASH TO: The pool deck is jammed with people partying. The

band playing. Two kids toss a beach ball back and forth. The

ball flies over one boy's head...

FLASH BACK TO: The ball falls into the empty pool...Where the

band's instruments litter the bottom along a big jagged

crack.

Uneasy, Hanover and his men look around at the over turned

chairs. The smashed aquarium. Chin bends down and picks up a

small squid from the bottom of the smashed aquarium. The

squid wraps its tentacles around Chin's hand almost

immediately. Chin regards it with curiosity.

...and then the yowl freezes them. C.U. on Hanover's face.

His eyes flicker with uncertainty...and a tinge of fear.

DING! FLASH TO: A glass elevator descending through the

spectacular atrium, full of elegant well-dressed people

laughing, chatting.

DING! FLASH BACK TO: Mulligan, Vivo, Pantucci, and Finnegan,

standing amidst the shattered glass and broken furniture,

whirling to the elevator door opening. Mulligan, nerves

ajangle, and Vivo, swing their pulse rifles up hard as the

door opens to reveal...and empty elevator! DING! The door

closes. The car starts to ascend in the eerie silence. The

mercs watch it go with growing uneasiness.

The door to the bridge is KICKED OPEN. Mason and Chin leap

inside. Guns out front. On edge. The overhead lights flicker

on and off. The imager screens are all black. The STEERING

WHEEL slowly ROCKS. As if an invisible captain is steering a

ghost ship. Hanover ENTERS. Eyes shifting. Suspicious, and a

bit nervous.

Mulligan leads Finnegan, Pantucci, Vivo into the casino. The

place looks like a mess. Tables and chairs are upended.

Glasses and bottles are shattered everywhere. And there's

BLOOD on the floor.

A BELL RINGS LOUDLY and the TROLLEY CAR STARTS TO MOVE!

Everyone jumps, freaked. Mulligan and Vivo spin around and

OPEN FIRE. Start BLOWING the shit out of the TROLLEY CAR. The

GUNS sound like nothing we've ever heard. ROLLING THUNDER.

Absolutely deafening.

The GUNFIRE ECHOES through the hull. Suddenly, with a loud

SPLASH, a sixteen-foot-long LIFEBOAT pops to the surface.

Then another LIFE BOAT POPS UP. Then ANOTHER. Then THREE MORE

off to the port side. Then TWO MORE off to the starboard.

It's as if the SOUND of the GUNFIRE is somehow releasing the

boats from their watery graves. They start to drift away.

Spooky quiet.

BULLETS RAKE the Trolley's metal sides. The WINDSHIELD

EXPLODES. Finnegan yells at Mulligan and Vivo --

Finnegan finally tilts the muzzle of Mulligan's gun to the

ceiling. They stop firing. A little wigged-out. Their

professional demeanor going by the boards. All goes quiet.

They look at Finnegan, who is the picture of calm.

The Trolley car reverses. The ELECTRONIC VOICE is now CRACKED

--

Mulligan whirls, his gun poised. Just then his headset

crackles.

Finnegan leans in towards Mulligan's mike.

Mulligan pulls the radio away.

Hanover looks around at the empty bridge, the blinking

lights.

But the look in Hanover's slightly unnerved eyes tells a

different story.

Trillian goggily crawls out from under a mound of boxes. Her

left eye's got a nice purple shiner. Her elegant gown is

ripped.

A VERY STRANGE SOUND coming from behind the wall. Wet. Gooey.

Slithery. Ominous.

Trillian freezes.

The SOUND slowly MOVES across the wall. Then another WALL

starts to GURGLE. Trillian spins around. She forces herself

not to panic. Very cautiously, taking small measured steps

she reaches the handle to the freezer, and tries to open it.

No go.

The gurgling ripples above her. Her mouth goes dry as her

eyes follow the sound across the ceiling. Her hand goes to

her hair. She pulls her lock pick out, and very slowly kneels

down until she is eye level with the door lock. She begins to

pick her way out, her ears and eyes following the gurgling

above. Suddenly the sound stops. The silence makes Trillian's

heart sound that much louder. She sidles close to the wall.

Still silence. Cautious, she taps on the wall. For a moment

nothing. And then...

WHAMM!!

Something slams against the wall from the other side in

response. Trillian falls back against the door, her heart in

her throat.

A MAZE of pipes, hoses, gears, engines and catwalks. THINGS

are HISSING, HUMMING, RUMBLING and CLANKING. A spooky place.

Dark. Damp. Eerie. Ominous. Mulligan and Vivo, looking more

nervous by the moment, lead the way. Finnegan and Pantucci

follow.

Finnegan turns to Pantucci, his voice even, calm, almost

kind.

He forces Pantucci to look him in the eyes.

Pantucci draws his strength from Finnegan. He forces himself

to take a deep breath.

Suddenly, overhead, something black and veiny skitters across

the mass of pipes, so fast it shocks Pantucci back into the

wall.

He and Vivo spin their guns at the pipes. The red dots of

their laser sights sweep the shadowy web of metal. Nothing.

Finnegan turns to Pantucci, who has not moved from where he

hit the wall.

Pantucci tries to pull away from the wall. He is stuck.

Finnegan takes Pantucci by the front of his shirt, ignoring

Mulligan.

As Finnegan pulls, Pantucci does as he is told. He slips away

from the wall. The jacket doesn't.

He reaches out to touch the wall. Finnegan grabs his wrist,

grabs a flashlight from Vivo's utility belt and shines it on

the wall. Their POV -- the entire wall is covered in a

strange, yellow, secreted GELATIN. Laid on in some sort of

weird, inhuman, geometric pattern. Like a spider web.

Leila has welded half the hole shut. A GUSH OF WATER suddenly

pours through the other half. Leila cuts the torch.

The KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK of the PUMP is like a loud scary

HEARTBEAT. Leila removes her blast visor. Wipes her brow.

-- A MANGLED CORPSE GUSHES IN through the gaping hole!

LEILA SCREAMS. Bloody murder. Scared shitless. Quickly backs

away. Actually, it's only half a corpse. The bottom half

having been eaten away. It's wearing a tuxedo. The corpse's

face is tightly constricted, eyes wide open, a grotesque

death mask. Leila shakes like a leaf, waist-deep in seawater.

Billy is staring out at all the lifeboats as they drift away.

All he can hear is the loud KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK of the PUMP. He

talks into his headset --

Leila trembles in the waist-high water. The PUMP'S HEARTBEAT

seems to have gotten louder.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK.

Leila slowly starts edging her way around the corpse.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK.

Her eyes are transfixed, staring at the abomination, too

scared to scream.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK.

Her back is to the gaping hole as she slowly starts to pass

in front of it.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK.

The water swirls around her waist.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK.

She's almost past the gaping hole now.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK...

Then something grabs her! She SCREAMS! And falls back towards

the gaping hole -- But it's only a twisted piece of metal off

a strut. She exhales. Relieved.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK.

Suddenly, LEILA'S whole body SPASMS. She SCREECHES wildly, in

great pain. The she's RIPPED backward out through the gaping

hole. Gone. WATER SLOSHES back in.

KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK-KA-CHUNK.

Knee deep in water, an edgy Mulligan watches Finnegan as he

disassembles pieces of a thermal carburetor from an auxiliary

generator. His eyes keep shifting around.

Over in the far corner Vivo is watching Pantucci working over

a metal lathe, repairing the cylinder head. Metal-on-metal.

Vivo sits up on a barrel, trying to keep his feet out of the

water.

Vivo pulls his feet further up on the barrel.

Then out of the corner of his eye, Vivo sees SOMETHING MOVE.

He spins around. Nothing but pipes and hoses.

Finnegan and Pantucci stop working. All eyes are focused on

the maze of pipes. THINGS are HISSING, HUMMING and RUMBLING.

Nothing moves.

Disgusted, Vivo puts his feet in the water, gingerly.

He walks toward the mass of hissing pipes. His pulse rifle

rising.

Then he hears a strange SLURPING and SUCKING SOUND coming

from behind some gears at the end of a little alleyway.

Vivo slowly goes in for a closer look, gun out front, heading

down the little alleyway. He looks behind some pipes. The

SLURPING gets LOUDER. Then he sees it. His eyes widen --

And that's the last thing he ever says. Because just then,

from a dark area between the pipes, SOMETHING SHOOTS OUT!

Mulligan, Finnegan, and Pantucci stare in horrified amazement

as Vivo is viciously YANKED into the pipes.

A moment later a WASH OF BLOOD is FLUNG across a wall.

Mulligan freaks out, aims his rifle at the pipes.

As Mulligan's attention diverts, Finnegan instinctively heads

for Vivo's rifle, lying on the floor. Mulligan swings around.

KACHUNK!! His rifle is armed. The laser dot fixes on

Finnegan's forehead.

Finnegan freezes, looking up at a very freaked out Mulligan.

Everybody's breathing hard. Freaked out. Major tension. Blood

drips down the wall.

Trillian steps up to the vault, looking around, a bit

nervous, something is definitely not right here.

She shrugs, must be her imagination. From inside her low cut

dress she pulls the Captain's gold security card. She is

about to run it through the reader slot when...

V.O.

Ahem... She spins to...Hanover, Mason, Mamooli and Chin.

Looking grim.

Mason and Chin lift their pulse-rifles. KACHUNK!!

Trillian is confused --

Hanover steps forward, right in her face.

Hanover grabs Trillian by the throat and slams her against

the wall. He rams his gun against her forehead.

Hanover blinks.

Trillian shrugs. Mason grabs the card out of her hand.

Mason runs the card through the slot. The ELECTRONICS KICK

IN. LIGHTS FLASH. TUMBLERS ROLL. CLICK! It unlocks. Hanover's

HEADSET comes alive with Mulligan SCREAMING.

-- Mason JERKS the vault door open. A FIRE-AXE SWING DOWN

into his head, WHUMP! Kills him instantly. Eyes wide open.

Everybody freaks out. Jumps back. Hanover lets go of

Trillian, and stares into the vault directly at Nigel Canton.

Holding the axe.

Behind Canton the Captain is on the floor, in severe pain,

his clothes are ripped up, REVEALING nasty looking RED SCARS,

blistered and puffy, all over his chest and arms.

Chin jams his rifle to the middle of Canton's forehead, and

cocks a round into the chamber.

But this is one soldier who is slow to obey the order.

Hanover grabs Chin by both shoulders and gives a colossal

yank.

He slams Chin against the wall. In the process he loses his

headset.

Chin and Hanover stare at each other, their chests heaving.

Mason finally drops to the ground. All she wrote.

The machinery is sputtering, and sparking, shorting, steaming

as the sea rises. Mulligan, in a panic, has backed Finnegan

and Pantucci into a corner. He screams over his headset.

No response. A sucking sound comes from the dark mass of

pipes. Mulligan spins.

Mulligan spins back to Finnegan and Pantucci.

Suddenly, Mulligan's LEGS are suddenly JERKED OUT from under

him. He hits the floor hard. Starts FIRING WILDLY.

Finnegan and Pantucci hit the watery deck.

BULLETS RICOCHET everywhere. Mulligan is WHIPPED across the

floor. SCREAMING in fear. His pulse-rifle goes flying. He's

SLAMMED into a metal pylon, then SUCKED into a dark void in

the pipes. All in the blink of an eye.

Finnegan grabs Mulligan's pulse-rifle. OPENS FIRE. BLASTING

the shit out of anything and everything that moves.

Pantucci grabs the knapsack, cramming as many parts as he can

into it as Finnegan keeps firing into the steaming, creaking,

sparking machinery.

Pantucci doesn't have to be told twice. He runs like hell,

with Finnegan firing a final burst, and following.

Everyone hears the MASSIVE GUNFIRE. Hanover looks around for

the source of the sound. He finds it in his discarded

headset.

The gunfire stops, replaced by an ominous, horrifying,

sucking sound.

He runs out of the vault. The Captain follows close behind.

Hanover listens to the sucking sound getting louder and

louder.

Hanover rushes out with Chin right behind.

Only Trillian remains, breathing deeply, scared...but not

scared enough to forget the reason she came cruising in the

first place. She goes right to the vault, opens one of the

boxes, removes the giant diamond, drops it down her

decolletage, pulls her high heels off, and runs out.

Finnegan and Pantucci run to the end of a long section of

metal grating, right below a staircase, to catch their

breath. Everything has gone dead quiet, except for the

billowing and clanging of the engines. Smoke and sparks

obscure their vision.

Both of them listen to the silence. And then, at the far end

of the grating, one grate rises...and falls. Finnegan and

Pantucci watch, transfixed. Then, like a locomotive gathering

speed, the grates start rising and falling, faster and

faster, clanking louder and louder, headed right for the two

of them.

LOUDERFASTERLOUDERFASTER!!!

Finnegan and Pantucci run up the stairs as fast as they

can...just as the grate they were standing on rises and

falls. Silence returns. Except for the steaming, creaking

machinery...and an ominous sucking sound.

Trillian comes running down the passageway to a freight

elevator. Looking over her shoulder, she hits the button. The

elevator doors open to a freight elevator large enough to

hold a dozen people. Trillian rushes in and hits the up

button. She breathes a sigh of relief as the steel doors

close...until the elevator starts going down.

She panics. And starts pushing the up button frantically, her

heart pounding in her chest.

There is not a sound except for the hum of the elevator

descending...until something drops on the roof with a THUMP!

Trillian screams. The elevator comes to a bumps stop.

Trillian shrinks from the ceiling of the elevator...and then

the car starts to move again.

Trillian pounds on ever button on the console, to no avail.

The car continues its inexorable descent. Finally, in

desperation, she hits the emergency stop button. The elevator

stops. The emergency SIREN WHINES. A LONG BEAT. Nothing

moves...and then...

WHAM! Something beats on the roof, trying to break in. And

again -- WHAM! The ELEVATOR SHUDDERS and continues its

descent. Trillian backs up against the wall, staring at the

ceiling, scared. The ELEVATOR DINGS!

Startled, TRILLIAN SCREAMS. The DOORS start to OPEN.

Panicked, Trillian raises the only weapon at her disposal...a

high heel. The DOORS OPEN. -- SOMETHING LUNGES IN! Trillian

swings her high heel...right into Pantucci's face!

Finnegan plows in right behind him.

Trillian tries to run out. Finnegan grabs her.

Trillian struggles. Finnegan does not let go of her.

Trillian buries her high heel into the back of Finnegan's

hand, breaking his grip.

Just then, the doors to the elevator shut, and the car starts

to ascend.

Trillian hears music to her ears.

Her demeanor changes, her voice goes to honey.

Trillian and Finnegan turn to Pantucci who is looking down at

the floor where a mass of yellow slime has dripped from the

ceiling. All look up to the yellow goo dripping from the

ceiling...followed by a sucking sound.

Finnegan lifts his pulse rifle and blasts the ceiling. The

sucking sound stops.

The elevator stops. DING! The door opens. Finnegan whirls his

rifle, rising. Trillian lifts her high heel, ready to

strike...

Hanover, Chin, and Mamooli have their massive guns trained on

the car. The Captain and Canton quiver behind them. There is

a momentary stand off.

Chin charges Finnegan, the butt of his rifle raised to smash

Finnegan's skull. Finnegan parries and drives Chin into the

rear wall of the elevator. Mamooli jumps Finnegan from

behind, wrapping his rifle against Finnegan's throat.

Pantucci jumps on Mamooli's massive back, ripping at his

face. Finnegan drops, buries his elbow in Mamooli's solar

plexus, spins, and has his knife out of his boot and at

Mamooli's throat in a flash.

ANGLE ON: Trillian. Impressed. She had no idea.

Finnegan looks up into the barrel of Hanover's gun...and a

pair of eyes that will use it. Finnegan does as he is told.

Again, Finnegan does as he is told.

The Captain and Canton are only to happy to comply. As they

slip in, Trillian tries to slip out. Hanover swings his gun

on her.

Hanover hit the elevator button. The elevator starts to rise.

All of a sudden, the car is jerked to a halt, as if some

giant hand was yanking on the cable.

And then, the elevator jerks down again. And up. Everyone is

thrown about like straw. Everyone is shouting, panicked.

And then the jerking stops...and the sound of sucking

surrounds the car. The cable starts twisting, creaking

sickeningly above their heads.

Trillian starts hitting the buttons frantically.

Finnegan is at the doors, pulling them with all his might.

Pantucci, then Mamooli, then Hanover and Chin pull at the

doors as Trillian keeps hitting the buttons. The doors part a

bit.

The doors fly open to...a solid wall.

And silence...until the doors slam shut...the cable

snaps...and the car plummets! Screaming and shouting mixes

with the bloodcurdling shrieking of the metal elevator frame

against the shaft. Finnegan's eyes go to the floor indicator.

An AUTOMATED VOICE rapidly CALLS OUT right along with it --

Down, down, down it goes. Faster and faster. But the elevator

doesn't stop at the first floor. It keeps dropping. The FLOOR

INDICATOR BLINKS: "SUBLEVEL. SUBLEVEL. SUBLEVEL."

CABLES SNAP. METAL SCREAMS. The ELEVATOR starts to BUCKLE.

Which is actually good, because it's getting jammed sideways

in the shaft which slows it down. The it HITS bottom with a

resounding crash.

The DOORS BLOW OUT into the darkened hallway. For a long

moment nothing moves, then Finnegan tumbles out of the

elevator. Rising painfully. One after another the others exit

into the dark lobby.

Finnegan bends down to pick up one of the pulse rifles.

Finnegan looks up to Hanover standing a bit shakily, his own

rifle trained on Finnegan.

And with that, Finnegan picks up the gun. A test of wills.

Finnegan wins, and then turns to the Captain.

Pantucci steps on something. CRUNCH! He looks down, his eyes

widen.

He starts dancing around, trying not to step on whatever it

is. Trillian looks down and SCREAMS.

Everybody freaks --

Finnegan grabs a flashlight from Chin's utility belt, and

sweeps the beam over the lobby. The entire floor of the lobby

is littered with shattered HUMAN SKELETONS. Picked clean and

spit out. Just like the earlier whale bones.

Then suddenly, at the far end of the hallway, one of the

metal WALLS suddenly EXPANDS and FLEXES. Everybody feezes.

And then the FLEXING suddenly comes RACING down either side

of the hallway, accompanied by the most god-awful PRIMORDIAL

SCREECH!

FINNEGAN BOLTS. Everybody else right behind him. The FLEXING

and SCREECHING VANISHES into the walls.

RAIN POURS DOWN on the Fuji Maru and the Saipan as they bob

in the waves, surrounded by endless choppy ocean waters.

Billy comes down the steps, gun out front, looking around.

There is no reply. The only sound is the sucking of the pump.

He ENTERS the waist-high water.

Billy heads deeper into the hold.

Damp, dark and disgusting. A MAZE of pipes and gears lines

the walls. Finnegan SLAMS the HATCH shut. Dogs it tight.

Everyone's gathering themselves around the room: Trillian,

Pantucci, Hanover, Mamooli, Chin, the Captain and Canton.

There is a moment of silence.

Hanover sets Mason's pulse-rifle down and claps his hands.

Canton flashes Hanover a look. The Captain is confused.

Trillian suddenly GRABS CANTON, spins him around and SLAMS

him against the hull.

A tense moment as Canton debates his situation, then relents.

He motions to the mercenaries.

Finnegan fixes Hanover with a look of certainty.

The Captain blows. He leaps on Canton. His hands find the

older man's throat.

Finnegan pulls the Captain off.

Finnegan holds the Captain with both hands, calming him.

Unseen by anyone, there is MOVEMENT within the MACHINERY. The

walls start to come alive with dark, SHADOWY IMPRESSIONS.

HIDDEN within the maze of machinery, OBSCURED by the bad

lighting, glistening abominations slither over pipes, squirm

through gears, and undulate in and out of crevices and holes.

The room is becoming a living, throbbing, pulsating horror.

Everybody slowly and quietly moves for the far hatch. Then a

loud GURGLING is HEARD. Everybody looks up at the ceiling.

Hidden within the girders, and sticking to them, a large

translucent INTESTINE-like thing CROSSES the ceiling. Inside

it are strange, disgusting biological workings. The GURGLING

suddenly gets dramatically LOUDER. And then we SEE BILLY and

LEILA, being sucked down the entire length of the fatty

intestine. Still alive. And squirming wildly. EVERYBODY

freaks out and HAULS ASS for the hatch. Finnegan and Hanover

OPEN FIRE. Covering their asses.

Everybody pours out of the machine shop and fans out into

this mechanical MAZE. The engine chambers are a labyrinth of

pipe-lined alleyways, motorized chambers, swaying catwalks

and pillars of steel. The LIGHTING is very poor, very dark.

Hanover, Pantucci, Chin and Mamooli OPEN UP. FIRING blindly

and wildly at anything and everything that seems to move in

the darkness. The MUZZLE FLASHES and TRACER FIRE light up the

chambers in a sort of surreal horror tableau. We catch more

ABSTRACT GLIMPSES of the translucent TENTACLE-SACS, strange

FEELERS, groping SUCKERS, SLIME and VEINS.

Finnegan rounds a corner and crouch-runs down a narrow alley.

Alone now. White-knuckling his rifle. He turns another corner

and runs right into Trillian.

...Spins, gun ready to fire at...

Finnegan looks around to the engine room, a labyrinth of pipe

lined alleyways, motorized chambers, swaying catwalks and

pillars of steel. The LIGHTING is very poor, very dark. He

takes off.

He motions into the deep shadows.

Trillian weighs her options, and takes off after Finnegan.

Finnegan comes to a ladderstair leading to a catwalk. He

starts to climb. Trillian, hampered by her long slinky dress,

rips at the bottom, making it maxi to mini in a flash, and

scoots after Finnegan.

Reaching the top of the ladder, she clambers onto the catwalk

next to Finnegan, who is deciding which way to go.

She holds out her hand.

Finnegan ignores her hand.

Finnegan starts to walk down the catwalk.

SNAP!! A TENTACLE SHOOTS OUT between Finnegan and Trillian.

Just missing them as it SLAMS into a wall.

Finnegan falls onto the catwalk, drops his rifle, unarmed.

Trillian, freaked, stumbles back and lands on her butt.

Finnegan sits up against the walls, turns and looks --

The TENTACLE slowly SQUIRMS across the wall like a big leach.

Trying to find its prey. Finnegan is frozen in place.

Watching. Trillian sits up, eyes widening in fear as she sees

-- Hideous little worm-like FEELERS and SUCKERS protrude up

and down the Tentacle. WRIGGLING and WRITHING and feeling

their way across the wall. Getting closer and closer to

Finnegan.

Finnegan's eyes go to his pulse-rifle close to Trillian's

feet. He motions for her to push it toward him. But, frozen

in fear, she can only watch the slithering horror before her.

Tongue-like, the Feelers lick their way across the oily wall.

FINNEGAN DUCKS as they squirm over his head. Then he BRUSHES

against some dirt, making a SCRAPING SOUND.

A Feeler quickly drops down and touches Finnegan's arm. He

leaps to his feet. So does Trillian. She grabs the rifle,

turns and bolts off down the dark alley. Finnegan tries to

run, but the Feelers hold him tight. Two more Feelers slap

onto his arm. HE YELLS.

The Creature starts reeling him in.

ANGLE ON: Trillian, running. Finnegan's YELL reaches her. She

stops cold. Looking back the way she came, torn.

ANGLE ON: Finnegan, fighting for all he is worth, being

reeled into the mass of machinery by the tentacle.

When...out of the darkness, Trillian suddenly comes running

back. Panting hard, she aims the gun.

Spurred to action, Trillian jams the rifle barrel against the

tentacle and pulls the trigger. Nothing happens.

Trillian frantically fumbles around, looking for the right

lever on the complicated, sophisticated weapon, trying to

find it.

Desperate, unable to find it, she does the next best

thing...she swings her rifle like it's a baseball bat. SMACKS

the TENTACLE. HARD. RIPPING into its flesh. It SQUIRTS ink

blood, releases Finnegan and recoils.

Finnegan drops to his knees. Grabbing his arm, in pain. The

tentacle recovers and starts coming toward him again.

Trillian grabs him, and with all her strength, jerks him to

his feet, and starts to drag him backward. The tentacle

coils, ready to strike. Just before it does so, Finnegan

grabs the rifle with his one good arm, flips the safety, and

fires, blasting the tentacle to pieces.

Finnegan staggers to his feet. He and Trillian run off.

Trillian and Finnegan come running around a corner, and stop

to catch their breath.

Finnegan's small smile makes Trillian acutely uncomfortable.

The Captain is stuck in a strange gelatinous spider web.

Struggling, frantic. But the more he struggles, the more

enmeshed he gets. He holds his hands out beseechingly to

Canton, who stands looking at him in terror.

But Canton does not move. All of a sudden Canton sees

something deep in the web, behind the Captain, which makes

his blood freeze.

Canton takes a few steps back.

The Captain tries to look over his shoulder to see what it

is. There is a DARK MOVEMENT deep within the spider web.

ANGLE ON: Finnegan and Trillian racing across a catwalk.

Below them, they can see Canton backing away from the

Captain.

Canton looks up, stunned, as he sees Finnegan and Trillian

rushing down from the catwalk.

Canton backs away from the Captain, as the Captain's struggle

draws him further into the web. The Captain's eyes bulge,

horrified, as he feels SOMETHING inside the spider web GRAB

him from behind.

He struggles WILDLY. Then starts to freeze up as the

tentacles wrap around him.

Finnegan and Trillian race across the floor as the Captain is

slowly sucked deeper into the spider web; his face and body

bady constricting, paralyzed. His VOICE is CHOKED OFF.

Hanover, Chin, Mamooli and Pantucci burst out of another

alleyway. Finnegan and Trillian reach the Captain just as his

FACE is SUCKED into the gelatinous web. They skid to a stop.

Everybody piles up. Eyes wide. Watching as the Captain's body

is pulled deeper into the dark web. Tentacles enveloping him.

Canton still pressed against the wall, staring at the spot

the Captain disappeared, talking to himself.

Hanover grabs Canton by the front of his tattered tuxedo

jacket.

Canton points down a darkened passageway.

He looks at an uneasy Mamooli and Chin.

He points in the opposite direction.

Finnegan takes off down a catwalk in the opposite direction

that disappears in the dark. Pantucci is right with him.

Trillian, a step behind.

Just before he steps into the darkness, Finnegan calls over

his shoulder...

He disappears into the dark. Canton looks at Hanover for a

long moment, and then takes off after Finnegan. The other two

mercs look at Hanover, wavering.

The sound of his voice makes the two mercs look around

nervously.

And then conscious of his voice reverberating...

Chin breaks for the catwalk, hurrying after Finnegan. Hanover

stands with a very antsy Mamooli, steaming. After a long

moment, he strides off after Finnegan as well.

In SLOW-MO, Finnegan and the others creep down a darkened,

pipe-lined passageway. Guns out front. Sight beams sweeping

the path ahead. Eyes wide open. Sweat sliding down their

faces. Breath coming in short nervous bursts. Hearts pounding

out of chests.

The ominous MUSICAL SCORE adds to the tension.

Then the EMERGENCY LIGHTING KICKS ON. A creepy-looking

reddish-blue glow is cast throughout the ship. Finnegan

continues on. Followed by the others. All sweating hard. Eyes

nervously shifting. Fear thick in the air.

LOOKING DOWN THROUGH A METAL GATE, we SEE Finnegan, Trillian

and the others passing below. Then suddenly, in the dark

foreground -- SOMETHING WET WRIGGLES across the gate. They

come to a door. Finnegan tries the handle. No go. Finnegan

turns to Canton, and mimes for keys. Canton shakes his head.

He has none.

Trillian moves up to Finnegan. She reaches into her hair, and

pulls out her trusty lockpick. As he watches, somewhat

mystified, she inserts the pin, tickles the lock a few times,

and depresses the handle. Click! The door opens. Finnegan

looks at her curiously, but with respect.

They ENTER the rear ballast section, where the walls are

indeed far apart, half of which is now a small POND.

Obviously flooded. The only way out of this room is down some

STEPS which VANISH beneath the seawater, or through a single

violently twisted HATCH DOOR.

Finnegan tries to push the hatch. It will not give.

Mamooli and Chin join him, adding their considerable muscle

to the task. The hatch holds tight. Finnegan turns to Canton,

who stands slumped against a railing. He does not look well

at all.

Finnegan touches Pantucci's shoulder.

Finnegan enters the water.

Pantucci follows Finnegan to the water.

Finnegan stops.

Hanover does not move.

Finnegan wades into the water. Just before he sinks beneath

the surface...

He looks back.

With a smile, Finnegan dives under. Pantucci right behind

him. The others stand looking around, nervous.

Finnegan SWIMS down to the floor of the ballast. Then into a

passageway lined with black pipes. Pantucci right behind him.

STRANGE NOISES REVERBERATE through the MURKY waters.

CREAKS and MOANS. Spooky shit. Both men are wide-eyed as they

swim. Weaving their way through a maze of pipes and ducts.

The THINGS could come out of almost anywhere. Bubbles drift

up from the darkness below.

The MUSIC IS TENSE...VERY VERY TENSE. Pantucci falls behind.

He swims around a curve and right into a SEVERED HUMAN ARM!

AIR BUBBLES BLAST out of his mouth as he SCREAMS. The fingers

on the dead hand seem to reach out for him. He fights his way

past and swims off in a panic.

Trillian stares down into the water. Hanover keeps a sharp,

nervous eye back down the catwalk, white-knuckling his pulse

rifle. Chin and Mamooli keep watch, tight lipped. Canton

paces back and forth, driven by anxiety.

Canton acts as if he does not hear. He keeps pacing. Hanover

chops sharply with the stock of his rifle into Canton's arm.

Canton crumbles against the railing, in pain.

Hanover's jaw clenches. He releases the safety on his rifle,

the click resounding ominously in the hollow room.

Trillian's eyes fix on Hanover's, unwavering. A Mexican

standoff.

Everyone turn to... A giant ball of black, wet, OOZING RUBBER

UNDULATES down the gangway. Coming straight at them. A mass

of glistening striated MUSCLE.

The three men open up with their pulse rifles. The CREATURE

gets RIPPED TO SHREDS. Red and blue INK-BLOOD SPLATTERS

everywhere. But onward it comes. Down the gangway.

Trillian grabs the pistol off Chin's utility belt, and opens

fire. Canton jumps into the water and disappears.

Finnegan explodes to the surface. GASPING for air. He reaches

down and yanks a half drowned Pantucci up next to him. They

both look up to gunfire exploding in the distance.

The creature keeps coming. The mercs keep firing. Then

without warning Hanover drops his rifle and dives into the

water, disappearing beneath the surface.

Trillian is astounded. She throws down her pistol, picks up

the pulse rifle, and slams on the trigger. The recoil of the

rifle throws her into the water. When she surfaces, she sees

Chin and Mamooli, firing as they retreat to the water's edge.

Still holding her rifle, she dives.

Trillian swims down a violently SHAKING PASSAGEWAY. Eyes

wide. Filled with fear. All around, DEBRIS DROPS through the

water. Primordial SOUNDS REVERBERATE off the walls. Lots of

BUBBLING and GURGLING -- THEN SOMETHING LUNGES OUT!

TRILLIAN OPENS UP. FIRING wildly. The water fills with FIRE

and BUBBLES. Trillian looks around. Scared shitless. The

bubbles clear just in time for her to see -- Chin, mouth

open, eyes wide, screaming in agony, being ripped past her.

She tries to fire her rifle. Too late. Trillian watches as

Chin VANISHES down the shaft in a CLOUD OF BUBBLES.

TRILLIAN BURSTS to the surface. FINNEGAN YANKS her up and out

of the water.

Trillian can only nod, and gasp for breath. Canton and

Hanover catch their breath, PANTING AWAY, waterlogged.

Hanover reaches over to retrieve the rifle in Trillian's

hand. Trillian points the barrel at him, and hits the safety.

Mamooli bursts out of the water, falling on the floor, close

to panic mode.

Finnegan TOPPLES a large, heavy metal BROILER onto the open

floor gate, sealing the watery hole in the floor. There are

two hatches in this room. The far hatch is closed. Mamooli

stands next to an OPEN HATCH. Canton points to it.

Mamooli SLAMS the HATCH SHUT. Eyes bugging out of his head.

Finnegan steps forward. Mamooli aims his rifle right at

Finnegan's head.

Finnegan freezes. CLOSE ON: The hatch. As a BLACK LIQUID

starts to OOZE through a tiny latch-hole. No one sees it.

The LIQUID SHADOW OOZES down and hits the floor, starts to

EXPAND, filling like a water balloon. It's not a liquid. It's

a Tentacle. VEINS, FEELERS and SUCKERS begin to form.

The TENTACLE slowly RISES UP right behind Mamooli. Inches

behind his head. Finnegan and Hanover see it. Eyes widening.

Mamooli turns to the tentacle looming over him, about to

strike.

He opens fire, emptying his clip into the tentacle. The

tentacle retreats into the pipes. Mamooli looks around. The

room is empty. He runs out.

Mamooli rushes into the empty passageway, looks left. Then

right. His POV. Down the hall another TENTACLE comes racing

at him. Mamooli panics, drops his rifle.

TRACK WITH Mamooli racing down the hallway, looking over his

shoulder in fear, as the tentacle comes racing after

him...gaining...gaining... almost on him... Mamooli leaps

through an open hatch, and swings it shut in one swift

motion. The tentacle slams into the glass portal. Stopped.

Mamooli keeps his eye on the portal, and backs up two steps.

He lets out a long deep breath of relief, turns... WHAM!!!

Another tentacle envelops his face!

Dante's Inferno: STEAM, SMOKE, FIRE, STRANGE NOISES, DARK

AREAS, and lots of MOVING ENGINE PARTS.

Finnegan leads, followed by Trillian, Hanover, Pantucci, and

Canton. We can HEAR their HEARTS BEATING. Scary shit.

Finnegan heads for a open HATCH. It suddenly SLAMS SHUT. He

instantly VEERS down another passageway.

Finnegan heads for another open HATCHWAY. It also SLAMS SHUT.

Finnegan and company keep going.

As they round a corner, the CEILING IMPLODES right in front

of them. PIPES and OTHER MATTER CRASH down. Cutting them off.

Leaving only one route open...a slim passageway.

Finnegan heads toward the passageway.

The ceiling left above them begins to torque, and splits. The

answer is plain. Everyone runs into the passage just as the

ceiling comes down.

Finnegan leads them single-file, they quickly head into a

SHAKING narrow void. Fear has led to silence, and unbearable

tension. The walls on either side creak, and moan with

strange noises.

Finnegan quickly comes out of the CREAKING, MOANING GANGWAY,

followed by the others. All the STRANGE NOISES suddenly STOP.

Everything gets quiet. Finnegan freezes. Something's wrong.

Everybody looks around. STEAM SHOOTS OUT from multiple pipes.

The air is thick with MIST.

Finnegan moves on. The others follow. Guns out front. TENSE.

They round a huge metal pillar and come face-to-face with a

soul-wrenching nightmare. The CREATURES' NEST -- OR STOMACH.

Across a small portion of the ship's midsection, is a huge

GELATINOUS WOMB. Imagine a massive thick wall of clear-yellow

JELL-O, with hundreds of BLUE VEINS running through it.

If it weren't all so horrific, it would be considered

beautiful. Inside the womb, A DOZEN HUMANS, passengers, float

around in some kind of twisted embryonic state, the living

dead. They all seem to be breathing the gelatin. Several

TENTACLES WRIGGLE through the stuff; which divides and re

forms in some sort of strange mitosis.

Finnegan and the others look at the passengers, horrified.

But even more horrifying is that the people can look back at

them. Many start to reach out, seemingly in slow motion as

their hands ooze through the thick gelatin. Trillian looks

sick, trembles in fear.

Canton looks like he's about to throw up, he starts backing

away, heading for a side hatch.

In the womb, a Tentacle suddenly approaches a sexy young

LADY. The Lady tries to back-pedal away, but because of the

gelatin, it's like one of those nightmares where you can only

move in slow motion. The FEELERS GRIP her naked thigh. She

tries to scream, but her face is already starting to

constrict, her whole body is being paralyzed. Pantucci is so

horrified he's about to cry.

The TENTACLE-SAC gloms onto the Lady's forehead. THROUGH THE

SAC we can SEE her SKIN MELTING. The only thing she can move

are her EYES, which are bugging-out in absolute horror as she

is imbibed alive. Our heroes are frozen in fear. Until the

Lady's EYES LIQUEFY.

Trillian burries her head in Finnegan's shoulder, trying to

shut out the horror.

He begins to lead her toward the hatch...when her eyes

recognized the old lady with the orchid in her hair. The old

lady seems to see her too. Her hands read out, IMPLORING. Her

mouth silently shapes the words: HELP ME! Just as a tentacle

comes creeping toward her.

Her rage rises. She hefts her rifle, and starts blasting

away.

Spitting FLAMES and SMOKE. The BULLETS IMPACT the gelatin.

BLASTING IT AWAY. But the bullets only manage to go about

twenty feet into the thick shit before gliding to a stop.

GELATIN EXPLODES all over the place. TRACER HOLES STREAK

through the stuff. But all the bullets are sliding short.

Finnegan looks around and spots the place in the ceiling

where most of the Tentacles are coming from. Their long TAILS

WIGGLE down from a massive clutter of pipes. A bas-relief of

horror. Finnegan reaches over and yanks two thermite grenades

off Hanover's utility belt.

...bites the pins and spits them out.

He chucks the grenades up into the strange WRITHING FRESCO,

safely clear of the passengers.

Pantucci and Hanover throw themselves to the floor. Finnegan

pulls Trillian down, covering her.

BA-WOOM! GELATIN SPRAYS EVERYWHERE.

A loud, creepy, suction-like SOUND is HEARD, that strange

pitter- patter of little feet running across the hull. Then

the HULL begins to MOAN and CREAK from an UNSEEN PRESSURE.

All the MOVEMENT STOPS. The remaining TENTACLES VANISH into

the machinery. Pantucci, and Hanover look up from the floor,

covered in slime. Finnegan and Trillian also look up...and

then look at each other face to face...inches apart. Dripping

with slime.

Then the machinery shuts down. The engines go dead. ALL SOUND

CUTS OUT. An expectant hush. Somewhere, WATER DRIPS...

WE GO EXTREMELY CLOSE ON Trillian's EYES. Pantucci's EYES.

Hanover's EYES. Finnegan's EYES. The air is riddled with

ominous expectation. And that's when the HULL BEGINS TO

TORQUE. RIVETS POP and SNAP. WATER SPRAYS. METAL BUCKLES.

At the far end of the ship, part of the LOWER BOW RIPS OPEN!

AND A WALL OF WATER RUSHES IN. FLOOD CITY! Finnegan's eyes

widen as he sees (MODEL SHOT) the massive WAVE OF WATER

CRASHING TOWARDS THEM. RIPPING OUT PIPES, DUCTS, WALLS,

EQUIPMENT and EVERYTHING in front of it.

They all hightail it for hatches. Finnegan and Trillian make

it into one hatch. Hanover and Pantucci make it into another.

WATER CRASHES and SPRAYS behind them.

Massive AIR BUBBLES EXPLODE out from under the bow.

RED WARNING LIGHTS FLASH up and down every passageway. And a

CLAXTON RINGS, in accelerating tones, giving a frenetic

urgency to ALL OF THE

WATER BLASTS through a hatch and CHASES Finnegan and Trillian

down a passageway. They jag left at an intersection -- WATER

BLASTS through the hatch directly in front of them.

They backtrack. Trillian's now in the lead. They HAUL ASS

down a hallway. WATER ROARING IN from everywhere behind them.

All of the watertight HATCHES begin to hydraulically CLOSE.

Trillian and Finnegan JAG into a hatch. It's a small room.

The hatch in front of them closes. WATER BLASTS in behind

them. SWEEPS them off their feet. The ROOM quickly starts to

FILL UP. Trillian pulls frantically at the hatch.

Hanover and Pantucci quickly slog their way through knee-high

water. Pantucci stumbles into the water, frantically

scrambles up. He looks back -- UNDER THE WATER, INKY FORMS

hurl themselves down the passageway right towards him.

Pantucci YELPS, and splashes away.

Trillian and Finnegan pull with all their might on a tiny

portal. Finnegan tries to insert the blade of his knife in

the crack.

The knife blade slips into the crack.

He yanks the blade. Trillian pulls. The seal pops. The portal

flies open. Waist-high in water, Trillian sticks her arm out,

tries to get her shoulder out, but there's no chance in hell

of that.

She pulls her arm out. And a TENTACLE LUNGES IN. Just missing

Trillian. It SPLASHES under the water. GRABS Finnegan's

ankle. Pulls him under. FINNEGAN sticks the barrel of his gun

underwater and OPENS FIRE. WATER EXPLODES. The Tentacle

recoils. And rips itself back out the porthole. Trillian

SLAMS the PORTHOLE SHUT and dogs it tight. The

WATER QUICKLY RISES.

Pantucci and Hanover hauling ass. Hanover pulls out his last

two Thermite grenades. Pantucci panics and grabs for them.

He knocks both of them out of Hanover's hands. They DISAPPEAR

under the water.

They quickly fumble around in the water, trying to find them.

A TENTACLE BLASTS around the corner. Partially obscured by

the wave in front of it. Heading right for them. Hanover

finds the two grenades. Gives one to Pantucci. They rip the

pins out and toss the grenades behind them.

Then HAUL ASS faster. The Tentacle right behind them. A BEAT.

And then the GRENADES EXPLODE, BA-WOOM! BA-WOOM!

The storm hammers the deck. Canton staggers out onto the RAIN

SLICKED DECK just in time to see -- A HOLE BEING BLOWN OUT

the side of the Fuji Maru's HULL. BUBBLES continue to EXPLODE

OUT from under the bow.

Then slowly, Canton gets a gleam in his eye, now thrilled.

Finnegan and Trillian are getting banged around the frothy

WATER as it quickly RISES. Now only inches from the ceiling.

Trapped. They're about to drown. Finnegan keeps looking

around, trying to figure a way out.

Finnegan shoves the pulse rifle to the ceiling. And blasts

away until part of the ceiling falls out and into the water.

There's just enough room between two metal beams to get out.

The rising WATER SHOVES them up through the hole.

Side-by-side, Hanover and Pantucci quickly slog their way

through waist-high water. They round a corner and look back --

INKY FORMS SLOSH around the corner. Heading right for them.

They slog faster.

A black STRIATED MUSCLE ROILS out of the foamy water, then

quickly VANISHES under it, heading straight for them.

'EM?! Hanover takes his pistol and SHOOTS Pantucci in the

leg, BLAM! Pantucci SCREAMS. FALLS into the water.

Hanover RUNS on.

Pantucci doesn't even have time to deal with the pain. He

starts SCRAMBLING through the water. UNDERWATER, the INKY

FORMS RACE AFTER HIM. Only meters away. Pantucci throws

himself into the opening of a dumbwaiter. SLAMS the DOOR

SHUT. The TENTACLE ATTACKS the door. WORMING its way across

the surface, trying to find a way inside. Pantucci is scared

beyond his pain. Pushing back as far as he can against the

rear wall, he sees the control button. He presses the up

arrow. The dumbwaiter starts to move.

The Saipan is still bobbing behind the Fuji Maru. But the

HARPOON HOOK, which holds the tow-line and is embedded into

the rear deck of the ship, is starting to PRY LOOSE. It JERKS

and BUCKS against the metal wall. Canton doesn't notice this

as he slips and slides his way up to the railing. He sees the

Saipan and smiles. Then he looks off at --

rising out of the ocean. About a mile away. Canton starts to

climb over the railing. And that's when the HARPOON HOOK RIPS

FREE. WHIZZES FORWARD. And IMPALES Canton's LEG. He SCREAMS.

Tries to spin free. The hook hangs onto his leg for a long,

agonizing BEAT as Canton continues to SCREAM. Then the HOOK

RIPS FREE, grabs the METAL RAILING and starts TEARING IT off

the deck. Canton drops to the deck, holding his leg and

whimpering in pain. And then he sees it --

dangling from its harness down on the watersports platform.

Canton starts to crawl for it. Moaning and bleeding.

Finnegan and Trillian race up onto the pool deck. Passing

beneath a colorful NEON SIGN which READS:

"THE FUJI MARU - YOUR FUN SHIP"

In the dark, Trillian trips. She falls to the slippery,

waterlogged deck, and SCREAMS...

...clawing at her face... Finnegan pulls her hands from her

face...and the thing that attached itself there...a small

squid from the shattered aquarium.

Tries to catch her breath.

And then it dawns on Finnegan.

He holds up the squid.

...looking down on the Fuji Maru from high up in the air.

Beneath the ENTIRE SHIP is an enormous, undulating BLACK

SHADOW. A massive monster from the deep.

RED WARNING LIGHTS FLASH. The CLAXTON RINGS. Off to one side

of a wall, behind the bar, the dumbwaiter door opens, and

Pantucci tumbles out, looks around, and then hears...

Pantucci limps around the bar, down a row of one armed

bandits... rounds a corner, comes face-to-face with Hanover.

Hanover's eyes are filled with terror and despair. His face

is badly constricted. His body paralyzed. He clings to a

black-jack table as a Tentacle-Sac drinks its way up his leg.

It's already to his hip. He grasps desperately for his

pistol, just beyond his reach on the floor. This guy ain't

gonna survive.

PANTUCCI YELPS and quickly back away, eyes wide, totally

tense. He looks around, sees that there's only one Tentacle,

and it's completely occupied with devouring Hanover. Pantucci

is wigged, but manages to lock eyes with Hanover. Then he

looks at the Sac, filled with regurgitated flesh.

Pantucci picks up Hanover's pistol. Then slowly, cautiously,

he creeps forward, and sticks the gun into Hanover's

TWITCHING HAND.

He turns and quickly limps off. Hanover's EYES look down at

the gun in his hand. Then, with all the strength he has left,

he slowly, painfully, turns the pistol so it points at his

head.

CLOSE ON: Hanover's trembling FINGER. As it slowly squeezes

the trigger. He want to kill himself. Needs to hill himself.

He squeezes harder. The TRIGGER DEPRESSES! -- CLICK! The gun

is empty. Hanover's mouth opens in a horrible, silent scream.

Finnegan and Trillian race out onto the rear deck just as the

HARPOON HOOK finishes TEARING the railing off the ship. The

HOOK, the TOW- LINE, and the ENTIRE RAILING DROP over the

side and fall OUT OF SIGHT. The TWO BOATS are now UNCOUPLED.

Finnegan reels at the rain soaked sky.

And that's when Finnegan and Trillian hear the SOUND of a

HYDRAULIC HOIST. They look over --

The speedboat is being hydraulically lowered into the water.

Canton sits inside, fiddling with the ignition. ANGLE ON:

Trillian and Finnegan racing down the spiral stairs leading

to the watersports platform.

The boat touches down into the water.

He HITS the HOIST-RELEASE BUTTON. The speedboat breaks free.

Canton HITS the IGNITION. The boat's ENGINE ROARS.

He red-lines the THROTTLE. The SPEEDBOAT HAULS ASS away from

the cruiseliner. Canton steers for the island. Smiling.

ANGLE ON: Trillian

IN HER RAGE...

She grabs Finnegan's pulse rifle, hefts it to her shoulder...

He forces her to look in the distance. Their POV. The island.

Finnegan points to the water...and an INKY PSEUDOPOD FORM

racing after the speedboat underwater.

The Tentacle quickly picks up speed, going faster and faster,

getting closer and closer, stretching further and further.

Suddenly, behind them, a METALLIC THRASHING SOUND is HEARD.

They turn around and look -- The hook, the tow-line, and the

entire railing have dropped down onto the watersports

platform and are tangled up around the two jet skis, trying

to tear free -- The Saipan is still clinging by its

fingernails to the Fuji Maru! Finnegan races over to a WINCH

and grabs the winch- line.

Canton, smiling brightly, peers at the approaching island

through the speedboat's windscreen. So relieved he sings to

himself, from the operetta H.M.S. PINAFORE.

When...YANK!!...the SPEEDBOAT is GRABBED from below,

practically exploding as it DISINTEGRATES into TWO PIECES.

Canton is PROPELLED through the windscreen and onto the hood.

Finnegan struggles to clip the winch-line onto the tow-line,

hanging precariously over the edge of the ship, clip in one

hand, winch-line in the other. The whole METAL MESS is

BUCKING and TWISTING and SCREECHING. His every joint is being

ripped out of socket as he strains to get the clip on the

line before the entire rig tears away into the sea.

With one last heroic effort of will and grit, he snaps the

clip in place just as it all BREAKS LOOSE. One of the JET

SKIS and the ENTIRE RAILING are RIPPED over the side and fall

down into the ocean. Finnegan is also YANKED over the side,

but he manages to hold on by his fingers, dangling

precariously.

The HOOK and the TOW-LINE drop -- then SNAP TAUGHT as the

winch-line holds them tight.

Trillian throws the start lever on the winch. The WINCH KICKS

ON and starts reeling in the Saipan. Finnegan tries to crawl

up on the deck, exhausted. Trillian reaches down and pulls

him the rest of the way up. He half collapses on top of her.

Despite the grimness of their position, the closeness of

their bodies is...a turn on...to both of them...and then a

SCREAM from the sea. They look in the direction of...

Canton is pinned to the hood of the speedboat, his face

shredded by glass, his leg mangled, screaming as his panicked

eyes watch a TENTACLE slowly squirm across the hood toward

him, it's hideous feelers writhe and arch. Canton backs away

from it as far as he can.

Another TENTACLE SQUIRMS up next to him. Canton crawls away

from that one. Its Feelers and Suckers unsheathe, dripping

mucus. Canton's eyes widen, horrified. Then another TENTACLE

SQUIRMS up. Canton crawls to the center of the hood. And

another TENTACLE. Canton has nowhere to go. The Tentacles

close in on him.

All the tentacles rise over him, about to descend.

Finnegan and Trillian race for all they are worth, clamber

over the side of the Fuji Maru, dropping to the deck of the

Saipan.

Finnegan and Trillian slowly clamber through the hold, waist

deep in water, on edge, eyes wide, watching for any sign of

trouble. It's quiet in here. Maybe too quiet.

They step up to one of the big CRATES. Finnegan starts

SMASHING it with the butt of his pulse-rifle. The CRATE BURST

OPEN. REVEALING the WARHEAD of the torpedo. Trillian is

stunned.

Finnegan SMASHES more of the CRATE, it falls apart, REVEALING

the entire torpedo. He hands her his pulse rifle.

Finnegan starts to yank open the top plates of the missile

head. Trillian looks around nervously.

The plate comes loose. Revealing a gaggle of wires, and

parts.

He starts to fiddle with the wires. -- Suddenly, there's a

LOUD SLOSHING SOUND right behind them! CRATES TOPPLE! More

pulse rifles spill out. Trillian spins, ready to blast away

with the pulse rifle, to...

He refers to the wires.

Finnegan tosses her a pulse rifle from the overturned crate.

She hits the safety, slams a shell into chamber...

...and exits.

Finnegan attaches a wire to a sprocket. A red light starts to

blink on the warhead.

It is VERY DARK. The RAIN is getting worse. THUNDER RUMBLES.

LIGHTNING FLASHES. The FUJI MARU MOANS and CREAKS.

BUBBLES EXPLODE from beneath it. The Saipan rocks against her

hull. Trillian clambers along the TILTING RAILING, heading

for the watersports platform. Her gorgeous eyes shift

nervously.

OK... The ship's METAL HULL SCREECHES. The SEAWATER BUBBLES

and GURGLES. From somewhere deep inside the ship, we HEAR

that loud primordial YOWL again. Trillian freezes, her heart

double beats. She looks around, really scared.

The missile is on a hoist being pushed forward by Pantucci

and Finnegan toward a GAPING HOLE in the PORT BOW.

The missile head is right in line with the hole in the bow.

Pantucci looks at Finnegan quizically. This is news to him.

The TIP of the WARHEAD creeps out through the hole. The body

of the missile is just a hair too wide, which is good,

because it jams itself nice and tight into the hole.

Trillian takes the tarp off the remaining jet ski. Pushes the

swivel arm that holds it out over the railing. The PLATFORM

TILTS! Trillian loses her balance. Almost goes over the side.

Just barely manages to catch herself. Hangs there for a

moment. Something SWISHES in the water below her. Trillian's

EYES scan the darkness; scared sick.

Finnegan LASHES the STEERING-STICKS as hard left as they'll

go. The rudder locks tight. Pantucci enters.

Trillian's scream tears through the night. Finnegan's eyes go

to the Fuji Maru. He kicks open a box by the side of the

console, and pulls out a sawed off shot gun with a pistol

handle in a holster.

Finnegan slams shells into the shotgun.

Finnegan hefts a pulse rifle, and runs out of the pilothouse.

Finnegan drops onto the deck from the tow line. Pulse-rifle

leveled. Adrenaline rushing through his veins. A man on a

mission. The SHIP is in its final death throes. MOANING and

CREAKING. Trillian's scream pierces the night, followed by

several shots. Finnegan takes off in it's direction.

Finnegan ENTERS. Ready to be jumped. The scary MUSIC builds.

TENSION CITY. Again shots fired. This time closer. Finnegan

throws caution to the winds, and runs for all he is worth.

Trillian is being dragged down the dark hallway by a tentacle

wrapped around her legs. She struggles frantically, trying to

get a clear shot off. But her shot goes wild as she is pulled

this way and that, slammed against the walls on either side.

She loses her rifle.

Finnegan ENTERS the glass-domed atrium. Sloshes through the

water. Stops in the middle and looks around. Sees a Tentacle,

writhing up a glass wall of the atrium. Finnegan hears

TRILLIAN SCREAM. He quickly plants his feet and FIRES from

the hip. GLASS SHATTERS EVERYWHERE. He arcs around. WINDOWS

BLOW TO PIECES. Finnegan lets out a low, angry, guttural

YELL. The TENTACLE SHREDS from the GUNFIRE.

The tentacle dragging Trillian retracts. Freed, Trillian gets

up, grabs her rifle, and RUNS LIKE HELL.

Trillian runs in and is immediately hit by COLORFUL SWIRLING

LIGHTS and a PULSATING STROBE. FLASHING RED WARNING LIGHTS,

the SOUND of the CLAXTON, the SPRAYING WATER and thick

MIST...major psychedelia. Disoriented, Trillian runs towards

a dark exit door -- and into a geometric gelatinous SPIDER

WEB. Sticks.

Finnegan is slamming another clip into his pulse rifle when

he hears TRILLIAN, YELLING for help. He takes off running

through a hatch.

Trillian struggles in the web, but she's only getting herself

more stuck. Behind her, deep in the web, Tentacles slowly

start squirming their way towards her. Trillian feels the

GELATIN start to MOVE. She struggles wildly.

Panicked. Finnegan ENTERS the room. Spots Trillian. Starts

sloshing his way through the water. Trillian sees him coming.

Trillian looks back. Sees the Tentacles coming out of the

darkness of the web. Twenty feet back and closing.

Finnegan runs up and grabs her. Tries to pull her free. But

she's stuck good. He looks behind her to the tentacles

quickly closing in on her. Now fifteen feet away.

As she struggles, Finnegan pulls out his knife, and starts to

hack away at the sticky webbing. Trillian tries to look

behind her.

Trillian struggles with every last ounce of her strength. Now

ten feet away.

Finnegan hacks away with desperate urgency. Now five feet.

Finnegan plunges his hands into the goo. Trillian latches

onto Finnegan's wrists, he onto hers. Four feet.

Finnegan strains, pulling, until every muscle in his body

keens with the effort, every vein pops to the surface.

Trillian pushes for all she is worth. Three feet...two

feet...one foot...

With a last gargantuan effort, Finnegan yanks...Trillian

comes tearing out of the webbing...the remnants of her gown

doesn't...in the nick of time.

The tentacle rushes forward. Finnegan jams his pulse-rifle

into the web and OPENS FIRE. Blasting the entire clip into

the goo. Tearing the shit out of it. BAMBAMBAMBAMBAM!!!!!!

And that's when the whole ROOM starts to QUAKE. And SHAKE!

Finnegan and Trillian both look down at their feet as they

hear the LOWER DECKS EXPLODING UPWARD, one at a time -- BAM!

- BAM! -- BAM! Something is rising up through the ship. He

grabs Trillain and pulls her toward the exit. She scoops her

fallen pulse rifle off the floor.

He shoves her out the door, and is about to follow when the

door is slammed shut in his face.

Trillian stands there, pulling on the door, half naked. The

door is bolted tight. She has not other options. She runs

off.

Finnegan turns as the DANCE FLOOR and the D.J. BOOTH EXPLODE

as SOMETHING RISES UP from below them. His eyes widen. And

there it is -- The huge, horrible, mutated, mucus-covered,

sucker-faced HEAD OF THE CREATURE.

A giant mutated protoplasm. Jutting up from a breach in the

floor. The trunk of the Creature, the part where all the

Tentacles come from, is below the next deck. A slimy,

translucent MEMBRANE slowly RISES, REVEALING what appears to

be some sort of ORGANIC LIQUID EYE. It seems to stare right

at Finnegan, who is transfixed by the sight. A Tentacle

slowly starts to move in on Finnegan.

Finnegan starts making his way around the shattered debris

that blocks his shot. The EYEBALL-type organism follows him.

Another Tentacle starts to move. Silently undulating through

the water towards Finnegan. The membrane over the EYE moves.

And another Tentacle starts to close in for the kill. They

are surrounding Finnegan. Finnegan comes around the shattered

D.J. booth. Faces the Creature full-on. He can't miss. He

gives it a wicked smile.

In SLOW-MOTION, Finnegan lifts his pulse-rifle. It DRIPS

WATER. He jams the gun-butt into his hip. Takes aim -- FIRES!

But he only gets off one quick BURST before a TENTACLE LASHES

OUT and GRABS him. JERKS him into the air. His pulse-rifle

goes flying. Finnegan is being dragged toward the hole into

the floor, and the death that awaits him.

He struggles to free himself as the hole looms closer,

closer. He is about to disappear down the hole of no return,

when his hand comes up with his knife. He slashes the

tentacle in two, scrambles up and heads for an open door. As

he reaches the door, a tentacle rises up in front of him.

Huge. Blocking his way. It's maw opens wide. A terrifying

sight of jaws and teeth and death. About to devour him. As it

strikes forward, Finnegan draws his shotgun, and blasts the

vile thing to smithereens. He bolts through the door, several

Tentacles already after him.

Trillian sits up on the jet ski. She hears the GUNFIRE.

Finnegan runs wildly down a passageway. He rounds a corner. A

TENTACLE SIDE-SWIPES him. Hard. SMASHES him into a wall.

Finnegan DROPS the shotgun. Hits the floor running. Another

TENTACLES CHECKS him. Sends him SPIRALING through a hatch.

Finnegan TUMBLES in. Face-first. Quickly rolls over and looks

back -- A TENTACLE LASHES in through the doorway. Finnegan

back-pedals on his hands and feet, stumbling over various

sports equipment. The TENTACLE homes-in on him. CHARGES

FORWARD. Finnegan hurls himself backwards. THROWING anything

that comes to hand at the Tentacle. A VOLLEYBALL. A WATERSKI.

A TACKLE BOX. A FRISBEE. But onward it comes. Finnegan back

pedals faster. Over diving gear. Scuba tanks. Fins and masks.

The TENTACLE RISES. About to STRIKE.

Finnegan backs into the wall. Trapped. He spots a SPEARGUN.

Grabs it.

The TENTACLE LUNGES. Finnegan FIRES. NAILS IT. PINS IT to the

wall. Finnegan scrambles past the furiously WRITHING TENTACLE

and runs out of the room.

Trillian lifts up her feet as the jet ski touches down into

the dark water. She frantically whispers to herself:

Suddenly, twenty feet from the jet ski, SOMETHING SWIRLS

through the water. Trillian aims her pulse-rifle at it. Eyes

wide. Knuckles white. Breathing hard. WHAMM!! Something drops

onto the ski behind her.

She turns, ghost white...to Finnegan.

Finnegan whistles. Waits. No engine goes on. He whistles

again. Still no response. Removes his watch, gives it to

Trillian.

He grabs Trillian's pulse rifle, and leaps up on the side of

the Saipan, and scales up to the deck. Trillian watches him,

and then looks at the watch.

Finnegan bursts in.

Then he spots something on the floor. He reaches down and

picks it up. It's Pantucci's leather tool belt. It's been

RIPPED TO SHREDS. Finnegan stares at it. His grip tightening.

Tears rising in his eyes. His jaw clenching. Then he flings

the belt aside. Filled with rage.

Finnegan hits the ignition button. A desperate moment of dry

cranking ...and then the one remaining engine catches,

sputters, and fires to life.

Trillian hears the Saipan's engine come to life. She hits the

ignition on the jet ski. Right next to her something drops

from the deck of the Saipan into the water. Finnegan clambers

up in front of her. His pulse rifle still in hand.

The Saipan strains on its leashes. ENGINES GUNNING. Finnegan

swings his rifle around. OPENS UP on the tie-lines. All the

TIE-LINES SHRED. The Saipan starts to break free.

He GUNS the ski...and it stalls. The jet ski stalls. Goes

dead in the water.

Nearby, the WATER SWIRLS violently. He hammers the starter

button.

The ENGINE STUTTERS. He tries again.

Another STUTTER. More WATER SWIRLS, getting closer now. But

the third time's a charm. The jet ski comes to life and

shoots off along the side of the ship. Just as a tentacle

comes shooting out of the water. Finnegan fires at it,

blowing it to pieces. The last TIE-LINE SNAPS. The SAIPAN

LURCHES AWAY from the Fuji Maru. The jammed steering-sticks

force the rudder to turn it in a tight circle.

Finnegan bears down on the handlebars of the jet ski. Pedal

to the metal. Looking straight ahead. Trillian holds on for

dead life. Suddenly, a WAVE EXPLODES in front of the jet ski.

Finnegan cranks the handlebars. The JET SKI SLEWS SIDEWAYS.

The Saipan starts to arc around. The WARHEAD gleams in the

MOONLIGHT. Dripping water. Finnegan HAULS ASS away from the

Fuji Maru. ENGINE ROARING. Throwing water. Another WAVE

EXPLODES. A tentacle rears up. Right in front of the jet ski.

Finnegan and Trillian lean hard. The JET SKI SKIDS sideways

across the water.

BOUNCING HARD.

Trillian can't hold on. Flips off the back. Skips across the

water. Finnegan ROARS away. A tentacle hard on his ass.

Trillian pops to the surface. Treads water. Panicked. Watches

Finnegan and the jet ski leaving her behind. Finnegan looks

back at Trillian. Bobbing in the water. The he looks at the

Saipan. Continuing its arc. Its deadly payload racing for the

Fuji Maru. Finnegan CRANKS the HANDLEBARS. SMASHES through a

wave and heads for Trillian. Trillian sees him and swims

hard. The SAIPAN ROARS straight at the Fuji Maru. The warhead

perfectly positioned to strike its hull. Only fifty meters

away. Now forty. Now thirty-five.

Finnegan cuts the motor of the jet ski. Slides up next to

Trillian. Grabs her by her arm. Rips her out of the water.

Throws her onto the back of the jet ski. Just as a tentacles

rises up, lashing out. He GUNS IT. SMASHES through the waves.

The WARHEAD SPLASHES through the water. The jet ski hauls

ass.

ENGINES WHINING OUT.

Faster and faster. A HUGE GEYSER OF WATER EXPLODES in front

of the jet ski. A tentacle slaps down hard. Finnegan cuts

hard. Too late. The JET SKI RAMPS through the geyser.

They and the JET SKI TUMBLE and SPLASH across the water. The

SAIPAN CHARGES FORWARD.

Twenty-five meters away from hitting the Fuji Maru. No twenty

meters away. Now fifteen.

Finnegan pops to the surface. Looks around. Can't find

Trillian. He DIVES under the water. His POV: Tentacles

converging on him from the murky depths. The "retrieve"

feature that's on all jet skis forces it back around towards

where Finnegan and Trillian fell off. Finnegan BURST to the

surface. Holding Trillian. She looks nearly lifeless. The jet

ski heads right at them. Finnegan swims for it. Dragging

Trillian. As tentacles converge from all sides.

The JET SKI is suddenly SUCKED under the water! Swallowed

whole. Finnegan quickly reverses. Backstrokes like mad. The

WARHEAD SLICES through the water. Now only ten meters away

from hitting the Fuji Maru.

Now nine meters away. Now eight. Seven. Six. Five.

Finnegan paddles hard. Sucking in as much water as he is air.

A TENTACLE RISES UP out of the water. Looms above Finnegan

and Trillian. Dripping water. About to strike. There's

nowhere to hide. Finnegan paddles harder.

The TENTACLE starts its DOWNWARD LUNGE. And that's when the

SAIPAN RAMS the Fuji Maru. The WARHEAD SLAMS into its hull.

BA-WHOOOOOOMMM!!

The SAIPAN EVAPORATES.

METAL FLIES.

WATER SPRAYS.

FIRE FILLS the night sky. The TOP DECK of the Fuji Maru

CARTWHEELS across the waves. The Tentacle above Finnegan

drops like lead. And just lies there. Quivering. Another

EXPLOSION. LIFTS the remains of the FUJI MARU out of the sea.

Sends shock waves across the water.

Blows Finnegan's hair back. He swims on. Towards the island.

Pulling Trillian. The remains of the SAIPAN and the FUJI MARU

SMOLDER and SINK. BUBBLES EXPLODE to the surface.

A couple dozen small FIRES dot the waves. WATER SIZZLES and

STEAMS. SMOKE drifts into the night sky. Debris coats the

water.

Finnegan and Trillian crawl out of the water and up onto the

beach of the island.

They collapse next to each other. Finnegan is exhausted.

Trillian coughs up seawater. They both turn and look out to

sea, and the rising sun. Trillian reaches into her bra, and

pulls out the egg sized diamond. She holds it up. The sun

refracts off it brilliantly...

Trillian looks at the diamond, looks around at the picture

perfect island, the picture perfect sunset...and then she

heaves it as far as she can into the sea. For the first time

since they know each other there is nobody around. No people.

No tentacles. And when they look at each other, something

else comes to mind besides survival.

Finnegan moves towards Trillian. Trillian moves towards

Finnegan. Their lips move closer, closer...

And then, down by their feet -- SOMETHING EXPLODES OUT OF THE

WATER! Scares the shit out of them. The audience too.

But it's just Pantucci. Looking waterlogged and shell-

shocked. Coughing up half the sea. Finnegan and Trillian help

him to his feet.

And then they head the most gut-wrenching, spine-tingling,

teeth- shattering ROAR ever. Pure primeval. Like no sound or

animal or thing we've ever hear beofre. Coming from DEEP

WITHIN THE ISLAND.

Finnegan, Trillian, and Pantucci slowly turn and look INLAND.

We BEGIN TO PULL BACK as they all stand up. MORE STRANGE

NOISES ARE HEARD. FROM MULTIPLE UNKNOWN SPECIES.

WE KEEP PULLING BACK. REVEALING more of this creepy-looking

island. And leaving our three heroes stranded on the beach.

WE KEEP PULLING BACK. REVEALING pieces of the smoldering

ship. Nearly the whole island is VISIBLE now. Dark jungles.

Craggy mountains. Maybe the scariest-looking place on earth.

The "THING" ROARS again. It's hellacious.

AND WE CUT TO BLACK.

