EXT. CLEVELAND STREET - NIGHT (1970)

Rain. Christmas lights. A rusted out '56 Lincoln rattles

down the bleak boulevard. In it: JOE STEVENS, an angry, black

man in his late 20's, beside him his 10-year-old son, JOE

JR.

Joe Jr. stares out the window at passing: boarded buildings,

whores with raincoats over their heads trying to flag down a

john, a black Santa, a knot of drinkers. Breaking the silence:

They stop at a light. Joe Stevens tries to furtively snort a

little something. He spots Joe Jr. watching.

Joe Jr. stares, silent; Joe Jr.'s about to hit him.

The boy nods. Satisfied, Joe Sr. draws in the stuff. It makes

him feel good, strong, worried and determined all at once.

A sudden charm to his bravado. Joe Jr. smiles uncertainly.

Joe Sr. grins back, pulls up in front of a liquor store.

Joe Jr. doesn't notice or doesn't remark that his father,

just before entering the store, draws a handgun from beneath

his coat.

The boy gazes dreamily at the street. The lunatic Black Santa

marches by, ranting to himself ("Then the white man say...").

The RAIN HAMMERS on the roof and windshield. Joe Jr. breathes

on the glass, fogging the scene.

From the store: MUFFLED GUNFIRE.

Joe Jr. looks that way. Another GUNSHOT, then:

His father comes out the door clutching money in one hand.

He strides toward the car with a reckless pride. He doesn't

notice:

The liquor store door opens behind him.

A SHOTGUN BLAST. Joe Stevens' guts splatter onto the car

windshield. A look of terrible amazement; he sinks to his

knees.

He jumps from the car, kneels by his father.

The STORE OWNER (47, Slavic) drags the gun toward them,

bleeding profusely.

JOE STEVENS

looks at the money in his hand: two 20's, two 5's.

He stuffs the blood-soaked bills in the boy's shirt pocket

and dies. Joe Jr. looks up at...

THE STORE OWNER

Bloody, nearly unconscious, he aims the shotgun at the boy

who is too frightened to move.

The man dies on his feet. As he falls backward, he pulls the

trigger, the BLAST shattering the car windows.

Cop cars SQUEAL up. Uniformed cops leap out, guns drawn,

survey the scene. Then one notices Joe Jr., staring motionless

at his father and the store owner, dead together. ON HIS

EYES:

THOSE SAME EYES

-- but older, harder, colder. They're concentrating on a

paper before him.

TITLE: 17 YEARS LATER

CLOSEUP - THE MINNESOTA MULTIPHASIC PERSONALITY INVENTORY

Hundreds of TRUE/FALSE questions...

1.) I have never indulged in any unusual sexual practices.

(T/F)

2.) I have often felt that strangers were looking at me

critically. (T/F)

3.) When I was young I occasionally stole things. (T/F)

Joe Stevens marks these TRUE, FALSE, FALSE then comes to:

4.) A person's station in life is at least partially

determined by his race. (T/F) We are:

INT. A ROOM - DAY

Thirty-seven Black Cleveland police officers (many in uniform,

including Joe) are taking the MMPI. Some roll their eyes at

the questions. Some try to copy answers. Others, like Joe,

work with rapid concentration.

But he gets stuck on #4. Marks it false. Erases it. Marks it

true. Erases that. Ponders. Goes on to: #5. At times I hear

so well it bothers me. (T/F) He marks that true.

INT. INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

GERALD CARVER, 36, an ambitious government lawyer with a

relaxed, vaguely hip manner, looks over the file of the

ingratiating BLACK OFFICER sitting across the desk from him.

Leland is startled, insulted, but doesn't want to blow the

interview. He smiles weakly, shakes his head no.

Stung, Leland tries to laugh. Carver puts his file aside,

picks up another.

INT. SAME - ANOTHER INTERVIEW

A SECOND BLACK OFFICER is powerfully built, politically

conscious, takes no shit. Carver's leafing through his file.

Winston is out of his chair before the question is finished,

drags Carver by the shirt front halfway across the desk and

hisses into his face:

Carver smiles cheerfully past Winston's cocked fist.

Nonplussed by this cool dismissal, Winston stalks out. Carver

picks up the next file, unfazed.

INT. SAME - ANOTHER INTERVIEW

Joe Stevens watches Carver reading his file and waiting for

an answer. When none is forthcoming, Carver glances up, finds

Stevens looking right back at him.

He says it pleasantly, without belligerence. Carver smiles:

he's found his man. He offers his hand.

INT. A DARKENED ROOM - DAY/NIGHT

ON A TV SCREEN: a grainy black-and-white tape, date and time

stamped at the bottom. A grungy street, palm trees. The light

from the monitor dimly illuminates Carver and Stevens.

On SCREEN the CAMERA finds: A MAN in jeans, sneakers and

sweatshirt on a street corner.

Stevens laughs: it's obvious.

A real DRUG DEALER joins the cop. UNDERCOVER COP: "You got

it?" DEALER: "In the motel, right over here..." The Cop's

uneasy, keeps glancing back toward the CAMERA as they go.

Carver studies Stevens in the darkness, impressed.

ON SCREEN: The figures disappear into the motel. We hear

their voices. DEALER: "Here, try some of it." UNDERCOVER

COP: "Uhh... No, I don't..." DEALER: "Why not, you

sonofabitch?" Two bursts of SOUND DISTORTION.

A plainclothes cop, TAFT, (black, stocky, powerful) bolts

from behind the CAMERA, sprints toward the motel. The CAMERA

wobbles after him.

ON SCREEN: The CAMERA (jerky, hand-held) nears the open motel

door. Taft is bent over the Undercover Cop's body.

He slams the wall, starts past the CAMERA. Carver pushes the

pause button; the tape freezes on a jerky image of Taft's

face.

Carver watches Stevens watch Taft, smiles at something.

He opens a manila envelope, dumps the contents on the desk:

driver's license, social security card, high school

transcript, prison records... all in the name of William G.

Hull. No photos.

Stevens takes a breath: this is awkward to explain.

But he does.

Carver hands him the scores which are, of course, just

clusters of numbers. Stevens is upset, though oddly

unsurprised, as if this only confirmed his secret fears.

Indicates dead body on TV.

Stevens raises his eyebrows: what?

EXT. WORKING CLASS CLEVELAND NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Stevens parks outside a small, well-maintained house. As he

gets out, he spots a GROUP OF KIDS (black and Hispanic)

playing down the street. He's not pleased about that.

A BOY, 7, and a GIRL, 5, (both light-skinned) run to him

shouting, "Daddy," jump into his arms, competing for

attention, as if they haven't seen him in ages.

His strictness has already sobered their enthusiasm. Sensing

this, he attempts to embrace them which he can do only

awkwardly.

Meanwhile, his wife, TERRY (Southern white) has come out the

screen door. She and Stevens bristle at each other.

Both are ready to fight, but restrain themselves. A big

Polynesian, TITO comes out the door.

A moment of surprise, then he gets it. He looks to Terry.

She gives a little shrug, refusing to be embarrassed.

INT. KITCHEN - FIVE MINUTES LATER

Stevens is trying to seem interested in Carmen's little

drawings.

She puts her arms around him.

Over her shoulder he sees Terry sitting with a subdued Joe-

J. Her face seems to say, "See, I told you..." Avoiding this

accusation, Stevens notices a bruise on Carmen's arm.

Terry intercepts him on his way out of the room.

Stevens looks at Carmen who giggles. He's humiliated by his

own temper, attempts to calm himself. Terry puts a sympathetic

hand on his shoulder.

EXT. LOS ANGELES - AERIAL SHOT - DAY

The immense sprawl, the arterial flow of the freeways, the

blinding light. We DESCEND...

INT. TRAIN STATION - UNDERGROUND - DAY OR NIGHT

People getting off, among them the former Joe Stevens, now

known as JOHN HULL. He's carrying a suitcase.

INT. TRAIN STATION/EXT. STREET - DAY

Hull goes up the stairs onto a downtown street.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET - DAY

South L.A. neighborhood. A 13-year-old BLACK YOUTH selling

drugs through a car window. Hull walks by. He's at ease,

looking around, his manner subtly announcing that he belongs

here, just as in the train station he seemed to belong among

the commuters.

EXT. TRANSIENT MOTEL - COURTYARD - DAY

A fat BLONDE WOMAN (61, large white glasses, tiny shoes)

leads Hull down a corridor.

They pass an open door where a 6-year-old boy, JAMES, a

latchkey, sits on the stoop playing Gameboy; inside, his

mother, BELINDA, a broken down whore, is doing her nails and

drinking Pepsi. She looks up, bats her lashes at Hull.

She opens the door to the room across the hall. A dump. Hull

walks in, drops his duffle: he'll take it. The Blonde lounges

in the doorway. He closes the door.

INT. ROOM - DAY

Hull empties his pockets on the dresser. Looks at his money,

room key, identification. Looks at himself in the mirror. He

touches his clothes, his face, tries on different expressions.

(NOTE: Throughout the film, Hull continually checks himself

out in mirrors, both to adjust his appearance to the

circumstances and as if in an attempt to recall who he

"really" is.)

EXT. 79TH AND FIGUEROA - TWILIGHT

On the seam between South-Central and USC. Lots of people

out: children, students, dealers, whores. Hull with a new

haircut.

EXT. ANOTHER, SIMILAR CORNER - DAY

Dealers (most in mid-teens) meeting cars, making transactions.

All this casually observed. EDDIE comes up the street,

reciting his version of an old street toast.

Those dealers not at car windows, gather around. He never

speaks to them, goes on declaiming as he exchanges drugs for

money.

Hull watches, talking to another street person. His appearance

continues to change: clothes, posture, walk, gestures subtly

conform to the environment, a bit like Zelig. Throughout the

film his appearance shifts, depending on who he's with. We

always recognize him, but each time he's different.

He walks up to a dealer, makes a quick buy and keeps going.

But he sees them and is seen.

INT. AN OFFICE - NIGHT

Hull drops eleven foil balls on a green blotter. Carver counts

out money for him.

INT. HULL'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

He sits at the window, eating a burrito, watching little

James play in the courtyard.

EXT. STREET - EVENING

Hull approaches another Dealer, the 13-year-old seen earlier

(angelic face). Like Hull, he's trying to act tough.

Hull exchanges a folded twenty for two foil balls. He walks

off. He has gone twenty feet when...

RED RANGE ROVER

SQUEALS to a stop opposite the Dealer.

A huge young black man, IVY (23, all in red with a red

headband), leans out the passenger window, shouting at the

13-year-old.

Everyone turns to look, but Hull's view is blocked.

POPPING noises. Ivy is waving an automatic weapon. Everyone

on the street but Hull has hit the ground.

Ivy laughs and fondles a girlfriend as the car ROARS off. He

sees Hull, pretends to fire, laughs as Hull, too, ducks.

When Ivy's gone, he runs to where a CROWD has gathered

around...

THE 13-YEAR-OLD

lying in the street, a bullet hole in his head, eyes open.

He twitches and kicks, blood pulsing from the neat wound.

Then he's dead. The faces around him (young, old, many races)

watch with a variety of emotions.

Cops push through to the body. As the crowd disperses, Hull

can't take his eyes off the boy. When he finally does, he

sees Eddie, drink in hand. Their eyes meet, and Eddie, a

rapper, raises his eyebrows in brief acknowledgment of sorrow.

EXT. LEWAZZ - NIGHT

TITLE: TWO WEEKS LATER

A bar with a neon bird for a sign. Hull enters.

INT. LEWAZZ - NIGHT

A racial mix. Hull takes a seat at the bar. Stuffed birds

line the lintel above the bottles. A female BARTENDER (long

red nails) greets him familiarly.

Without being asked, she sets him up a Dry Sack with a long

red straw. (NOTE: He never touches the drink.) Hull's

appearance has continued to change. His clothes have become

flashier, he has an earring, the start of a goatee.

Eddie approaches the bar compulsively reciting one of his

toasts.

He goes on muttering under his breath, tapping his foot like

any crankhead. He notices Hull, greets him as someone he

can't place but knows he's seen around.

Tries to remember name.

Clasp hands. Eddie takes his drinks, carries them to...

A TABLE

where he rejoins a white man, DAVID ELIAS (30s, slick,

powerful) and a well-dressed BLACK WOMAN (mid-20s, good-

looking). She gets the wine.

Elias rises to let her out. As the woman passes Hull on her

way to the restrooms, their eyes meet: an instant of perfect

chemistry. He's struck. Her features open, grow sensual for

a moment, but then, as if seeing something she doesn't like,

her eyes flick away, and she walks by as if he weren't there.

INT. CARVER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

(NOTE: Hull invariably meets Carver in this anonymous room,

distinguished only by the green blotter and a view of the

city. This simple regularity suggest visits to a psychiatrist,

Carver probing, testing, teasing, trying to draw Hull out.

And they feel like therapy, at once a respite and a torment.)

More foil balls on the blotter beside boxes of 3x5

photographs. Photos of Eddie and David Elias are up on a

corkboard, the beginning of a pyramid.

Carver produces a photo of a handsome Latin in his 50s, pins

it on the board above Elias.

Carver shrugs: these things happen. He hands Hull a lot of

cash, much more than expected. Hull does understand.

TITLE: TWO WEEKS LATER

INT. CRACK HOUSE - DAY

Virtual darkness save splinters of light between the curtains.

Pipes burn here and there in the gloom. Ten or fifteen

crackheads huddle around a battery-operated TV on which Tom

Brokaw is narrating an NBC documentary on drugs. A 12-year-

old sits against a wall too stoned even for television.

Hull approaches Eddie, regally installed on an automobile

bench seat-cum-sofa, a lit pipe in one hand. We barely notice

the redhead kneeling between his legs, face buried in his

crotch. He greets Hull from wrecked bliss. They know each

other now.

Hull greets Eddie, some of the others, drops familiarly onto

an adjacent auto seat. The patrons are making fun of Brokaw,

laughing, exchanging fives.

Eddie holds up a hand telling Hull to wait. His mind is

elsewhere. His features contract in brief concentration.

More laughter, etc. Eddie's concentration peaks, breaks off

into a sigh and a smile.

Eddie sings a satisfied little song...

The redhead rises from Eddie's crotch, and we see it's a

boy, seventeen going on death; he might have been pretty a

year ago.

Eddie passes him the crack pipe, lets him suck greedily for

a few seconds before ripping it out of his scabrous mouth

and offering it to Hull, who, with a grimace that gets laughs,

declines. The others continue to watch and comment on the

speech.

Eddie likes that, holds out a hand. Hull hits it.

Hull nods, rises.

Indicating redhead.

In all these scenes, Hull acts indifferent to the horror,

but here the effort costs him. He masters his disgust with a

joke.

Everyone laughs, even the boy.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Eddie comes out the back door of a building, is immediately

collared by Taft (the cop on the videotape). He's in his mid-

40s, stocky, balding.

Eddie breaks free, runs three feet before HERNANDEZ (a

muscular Mexican) knees him in the groin. Eddie crumples.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Eddie folded over his wounded nuts. Hernandez and Taft sit

on crates to either side. The drugs they've taken from him

are neatly arranged on a garbage can lid.

EXT. DAVID ELIAS'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A pleasant, Santa Monica neighborhood. Spanish style house.

INT. ELIAS'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Pleasant, tasteful. Elias's wife, NANCY, (dressed like the

attorney she is) sits in an alcove-study reading a real estate

contract through half-glasses. Elias himself is helping his

daughter, MIRANDA, 7, with her homework. He is 38, with the

body and bearing of a powerful man.

Elias is not a sweet Daddy. It should make us uncomfortable

to watch him push his daughter.

The DOORBELL.

INT./EXT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT

Three men: FELIX BARBOSA (whose photo we saw in Carver's

office). Barbosa is a veteran of the coke business, but he's

doing too much of the drug now; he's sweating, paranoid,

unstable. With him is GOPHER, early 60s, a wizened high-voiced

old con who Barbosa keeps the way Spanish kings kept dwarfs,

for amusement and luck; like the court jester, Gopher can

say anything he wants without fear. Behind them is an Hispanic

kid, CHINO, 17, a thug.

Elias knows them all, but is not happy to see them at his

door.

This is very bad news. Elias murmurs a shaken, "Shit..." and

steps outside, half-closing the door behind him.

He doesn't realize until it's too late that Nancy has just

then opened the front door to see where he went. They look

at each other, a terrible moment: she knows what he does,

hates it, can't bring herself to leave him, hates herself

for that.

She hands him a cordless phone, goes inside closing the door.

Barbosa laughs.

INT. A BOXING GYM - NIGHT

Elias joins Eddie and Hull to one side. In the b.g. two guys

sparring.

Hull makes a show of weary patience, gestures: here I am.

He gets up, walks away.

ON HULL

He's blown it. He's been made. The crushing failure. He

rallies himself to indignation.

Eddie's sickened, wants to get paid, owes Taft a bust.

EXT. GYM/INT. A VAN - CONTINUOUS TIME

Taft and Hernandez, watching the gym. Hull comes out, looks

up and down the street carefully. Taft sits up, pays

attention.

Hernandez grunts.

But Taft clearly thinks there's something different about

Hull. He's not sure what, but it troubles him. (NOTE: Hull

makes a little move that Taft will later realize was a cop's

move. For now he can't quite place it.)

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS TIME

Eddie pleading his case to Elias.

Elias studies Eddie: is he a rat? Elias hopes not, but he's

going to find out. He hands a fat Federal Express envelope

through the window.

Eddie bows in gratitude, hurries off.

EXT./INT. HULL'S MOTEL - NIGHT

Hull's unlocking his door when Belinda, the hooker across

the hall, comes out to talk. Her 6-year-old, James, watches,

silent.

Hull slouches in the doorway, fingers to his eyes.

Gives him another bill. The boy runs off.

Hull grunts.

Hull is rescued from this horror by the ringing PAY PHONE.

He runs down the hall, grabs it.

He dashes past Belinda into his room.

He closes the door, takes the money Carver gave him out from

behind the mirror, dashes back outside. As he rushes by:

He keeps going. The Blonde Woman addresses Belinda.

EXT. TACO STAND - VENICE AND LA BREA - NIGHT

A handful of customers under a mud sky. The THROB of a distant

helicopter. Hull pulls into the lot beside Eddie's BMW.

He climbs into the BMW, tosses Eddie a brown envelope; money

spills onto his lap. Eddie does a quick count, produces the

Fed Ex envelope. The usual white stuff.

Hull's about to taste when the chopper swoops in with a sudden

blinding overhead light. A BULLHORN booms down like the voice

of God.

Eddie starts the car, and Hull rolls out the passenger door

as the BMW races across the lot.

Two black-and-whites and an unmarked converge on the stand.

Hull can't reach his car. He vaults a metal rail and runs

off between two buildings.

Hernandez jumps out of an unmarked and races after him. Taft

speeds the car out onto the street.

HULL

running. Police and SIRENS pursuing. He hurls the Fed Ex

envelope into a dumpster. HELICOPTER light sweeps over him.

As he cuts around a building, Taft opens a car door right

into his face. Hull goes down hard.

He waves at the helicopter which goes away, kneels over Hull

who is twitching spastically on the ground, gasping for air.

Hernandez arrives carrying the Fed Ex envelope.

Hull is astonished to look up and see Taft looming over him,

the man he remembers from the videotape. He tries to speak:

Hull shakes head, winces.

Hull tries to curse.

He takes out his wallet, opens it to pictures of his two

children, a boy and a girl, seven and eight.

Hull groans, twists in pain. Taft sticks the pictures in his

face. Hull is affected by the children despite everything.

Hull just looks up.

He takes the Fed Ex envelope from him.

Taft yanks him hard to his feet; Hull cries out in pain.

INT. COURTROOM - NIGHT

Hull is led in with other handcuffed PRISONERS. Carver is

here, catches Hull's eye. Hull shakes his head; doesn't want

Carver to intercede. A woman PUBLIC DEFENDER (26, attractive,

harried) addresses the prisoners.

Hull is listening to this when a BAILIFF taps his shoulder.

Puzzled, Hull sees the back of a suit conferring with a

PROSECUTOR. The suit turns. It's DAVID ELIAS who smiles,

offers his hand. Hull is stunned. Elias enjoys that.

Elias addressing the court.

Hull is surprised at this news. The Judge looks to the

Prosecutor who waives objection. Gavel.

As they walk toward the back, Taft approaches Hull. There's

already a deep pull between these two, and in Taft's presence,

Hull can't sustain the tough street act. We almost see the

little boy inside him.

A long look between them, broken when Elias takes Hull's

arm, leads him away. Elias cheerfully greets a couple of

hookers waiting arraignment. Hull furtively grabs his sleeve.

EXT. LEWAZZ - NIGHT

After hours. The place is closed. A couple of cars in the

lot. Elias's BMW pulls in.

INT. LEWAZZ - NIGHT

Deserted except for one table where Eddie, Barbosa, Gopher

and Chino are eating shrimp. They look up as Hull and Elias

approach. Eddie's astonished to see Hull.

Eddie looks around, uneasy.

Eddie looks around. Everybody's looking at him. He considers

lying, but realizes it's pointless.

Hull observes Barbosa become the power center.

Barbosa's impassive.

Elias looks stricken. Barbosa laughs. Eddie jumps up. Hull

turns away, can't bear to watch this.

EDDIE

grabs the first thing he lays eyes on, a tiny snail fork and

plunges it into Barbosa's neck.

As if it were a fly bite, Barbosa flings the table aside

and, with a long knife already in his hand, guts Eddie from

groin to breast bone. Eddie falls like a suddenly emptied

sack.

Elias can't help gasping.

Hull looks away, hiding his horror.

Barbosa rips the fork out of his neck and hurls it at the

body.

Elias stares at Eddie's body, transfixed. Horrified,

fascinated, afraid, in awe. Barbosa turns to Hull.

Everyone else is silent, grave.

INT. ELIAS'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

Through sliders we see a small pool. Elias and Hull sit over

uneaten omelets. Both still shaken by the previous scene.

Elias puts a finger to his lips.

Hull shrugs: he doesn't.

They hear someone coming.

He hugs her, kisses her, much more openly affectionate than

Hull was with his own children. Hull notices that.

Elias whispers in her ear.

Miranda gives Hull a shy greeting. Nancy hurries into the

kitchen, handsome, busy, ready for work.

Nancy nods briefly in Hull's direction. Elias kisses Miranda

who grabs the back-pack her mother proffers, and they go

out. When they're gone:

When they're gone, he opens louvered doors onto a

washer/dryer, takes a sports bag off a shelf, gives it to

Hull. Hull looks inside. White powder. He tastes. Real. He

hefts the bag.

Elias doesn't deny it.

INT. CARVER'S OFFICE - DAY

Now in daylight. Two separately wrapped kilograms of crack

cocaine on the green blotter.

Hull just looks at him. Carver doesn't blink.

Hull: a moment of horror as he realizes what Carver is saying.

MUSIC -- A DRUG DEALING SEQUENCE

INT. HULL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

He's filling glass vials with crack. Hundreds of them. It's

tedious work. He spills some, curses. He stops. He can't

believe he's doing this. He goes on doing it.

INT. CRACK HOUSE - DAY

Hull doling out vials to DEALERS seen earlier with Eddie.

EXT. A STREET - DAY

DEALERS going up to cars as before, only now they're Hull's

dealers. A well-dressed Black businessman buys from his BMW.

EXT. SAME - ANOTHER TIME

Another sale: Teenagers on foot.

EXT. HULL'S MOTEL - ANOTHER TIME

He comes out of the motel talking to a Dealer we've seen

above.

The Dealer nods. Across the street Hull sees:

A blue sedan. Taft and Hernandez. Taft gives Hull a little

nod and grin.

EXT. STREET - ANOTHER TIME

Hull sitting in an aging Trans Am, making entries in a

notebook. Across the street he watches:

A PREGNANT WOMAN (19), a squawling baby in arms, buying from

one of his Dealers.

He kicks the dash in frustrated anger. Under the MUSIC:

As soon as the woman's gone. He goes over to the Dealer,

slaps his head, slaps it again. Under the MUSIC:

EXT. SAME - ANOTHER TIME

A white housewife making a buy from a new mini-van, a baby

in the car seat.

EXT. STREET - TWILIGHT

Two USC football players (letter jackets, huge) hassling

BIJOUX, a woman dealer, pushing her, she pushes back, curses.

Suddenly Hull comes running up, shoves them apart. He's

yelling, pointing a finger in their faces. Elias comes up

behind, calmer.

Hull is smaller than either USC kid, but they back down as

he curses them. Under MUSIC:

A brief scuffle. Hull decks one USC, and Elias pulls him

off. The kids leave. Elias doubles over with laughter. Hull

yells at Bijoux and walks off.

EXT. APARTMENT HOUSE - DAY

Hull (looking at written address) knocks on a door. It's

opened by a beautiful, dark-skinned black woman in a skimpy

robe. She looks at him with disarming frankness. He thinks

he must be in the wrong place.

Through the door we see him emerge from a bedroom stepping

into his loafers, buttoning his shirt. He gives the woman

along, dark kiss, caressing her body.

She laughs, closes the door. As he and Hull walk to the

street, Elias sings happily to himself:

Elias laughs, gets into Hull's car. Hull's angry, takes a

beat before he gets in.

Hull can't help laughing. He starts the car.

EXT. BETTY'S STORE - DAY

Elias and Hull approach. Hull's carrying a satchel and wearing

a new leather jacket.

INT. JEWELRY STORE - DAY

As they go in, Elias switches the OPEN sign to CLOSED and

turns the latch. The store is filled with Latin American

folk art, particularly masks which line the walls.

BETTY STONE, the woman Hull saw with Elias at the bar, comes

out from the back. She is 27, a bad girl trying to dress the

way she thinks a banker who went to Vassar dresses for

success. She's also a little strung out.

She and Hull recognize each other at once, (a brief reprise

of that moment of perfect chemistry) but she avoids his gaze.

Hull puts the satchel on a display case. Betty still won't

look at him, opens the satchel, begins a quick count. She

does this with a speed and sureness that suggests high test

scores.

Betty doesn't answer, so Elias covers the awkwardness.

Hull has taken down a mask, puts it over his face, looks in

a mirror.

She produces a vial of coke, looks questioningly at Elias.

She draws out six lines. Elias does two.

NOTE: Betty is acutely attuned to Hull, and in his refusal

she senses -- albeit unconsciously -- two things: first,

that he doesn't trust himself on drugs, therefore, he's a

dangerous guy and, therefore, exciting; and, second, more

important, the refusal bespeaks a repudiation of the violence

and danger and, thus, a longing for goodness. Despite the

seeming contradiction, she finds this even more attractive.

But because she feels herself to be bad, his goodness seems

only a judgment against her, and so she thinks she hates

him.

Betty ignores him, does her lines.

She can't help looking at Hull who's looking at her. She and

Elias are stoned; he's not.

But Elias is too busy vacuuming up Hull's leftovers.

He sticks his finger in Hull's face just like Hull with the

boys.

He says it gently, but Betty hears the edge.

Hull glares; Elias refuses to be intimidated.

Elias dances around repeating "fucka" until it's almost

musical.

Hull picks him up and slams into a wall.

Elias throws Hull back against a display case. He's strong

and unafraid. They're ready to fight.

This half snaps them out of it. Still glowering, they slowly

relax, release each other.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Hull sits in the Trans Am eating a sandwich and watching the

street as a DEALER leans in the window telling his sob story.

There's an authority to Hull's manner that tells us he may

not like this job, but he knows how to do it.

As he raps on, comical pathos, Hull spots in his side

mirror...

THE RED RANGE ROVER

coming slowly this way. Ivy in the passenger window, the

barrel of an automatic weapon glinting in the streetlight.

Hull glances up: Bijoux is selling on the next corner.

The Range Rover passes the Trans Am. Ivy leans out.

Hull flings open the Trans Am door, throwing the Dealer to

the ground. He jumps from the car:

She turns. Sees Ivy. She puts out her hands to block the

shots. The SOUND of the gun is inaudible. The barrel bounces

slightly. Bijoux sprawls backward.

Bijoux: dead on the sidewalk, limbs askew, bleeding from

many wounds.

Hull, standing over her, covers her face.

EXT. SAME - MUCH LATER THAT NIGHT

The body has been taken away, the crowd has cleared. Elias

sits on the hood of the Trans Am. Hull stands, staring down.

Elias knows that's true, and it leads to another truth.

Hull looks up.

Hull looks up, startled.

Hull sees the truth of that and slowly nods.

Meaning he can't do it. Hull knows that. A long beat on Hull's

face as he reaches the inevitable decision.

Elias offers his hand. Hull stands up, a sudden resolve.

But Hull is already moving.

EXT. STREET/INT. ELIAS'S CAR - NIGHT

Hull and Elias driving, looking for Ivy. Elias double parks

by two prostitutes.

We STAY in the car with Hull who's silent, frightened, keeps

trying to warm his hands.

Outside, Elias is talking and laughing with the prostitutes.

We see them point. He gives them money, kisses. They laugh.

He gets back in the car.

EXT. A DANCE CLUB - NIGHT

The Range Rover parked in front. Elias's car stops. MUSIC

pounds from inside. Then one CONTINUOUS SHOT:

They pass the club, other store fronts... Turn at the

corner... Turn into an alley... Down the alley past the same

buildings... The rear door of the club... To the next

street... Turn... Turn... onto the original street, back to

the front of the club. They stop again.

Elias nods. A beat. They look at each other.

Hull's so terrified he seems calm. With an air of submitting

himself to fate, he gets out and walks into the club.

INT. CLUB - NIGHT

Crowded and BOOMING and strobe lit. Hull pays the cover and

climbs a staircase to a...

CIRCULAR BALCONY

that overlooks the dance floor. On stage: a RAP ACT with its

throbbing beat and below Hull a sea of dancers.

Hull circles the balcony. It isn't hard to pick out Ivy --

he's all in red, dancing with the woman we saw him with in

the Range Rover the first time.

Hull reaches the steps again and starts down, keeping his

eye on Ivy. The number ends. In the pause before the next

one, Ivy can be seen excusing himself, heading toward the

rear of the club.

The next number begins. People dance. Hull pushes his way

through the dancers to...

INT. REAR OF CLUB - A SHORT HALLWAY - NIGHT

leading toward the rear door they saw from the alley.

MOVING DOWN THE HALL

A woman's room. A men's room. Hull goes into...

INT. MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Ivy is pissing into a urinal. He's so huge he seems to take

up all the space in the tiny room. Hull stares at him, unable

to look away.

He notices Hull. All dialogue is UNDER the POUNDING MUSIC.

Hull stares at Ivy's face. Ivy considers this rude.

Laughing, he turns, urinates on Hull's pants. Hull doesn't

move.

Somebody pushes on the outside of the door. Hull holds it

closed with his back.

He reaches into his pants for the butt of a gun.

Hull is frozen.

Ivy starts to draw it out.

Hull steps forward, grabs Ivy's gun arm. With his other hand

he clumsily pulls a silenced .22 from inside his jacket,

puts it in the underside of Ivy's jaw and SHOOTS twice. Ivy's

brains spray upward onto the wall, and he slides straight to

the floor. Hull steps out into...

INT. SHORT HALL - NIGHT

An Hispanic busboy coming out of the kitchen sees him and

the gun in his hand, freezes.

Hull walks past him and out the back door. From inside we

see Hull go down three steps, stumble in the drive and fall

to his knees, the gun CLATTERING away from him.

A couple that had been making out, stops, looks.

It takes Hull a moment to gather himself. He picks up the

gun, gets into Elias's car. It drives away.

INT. HULL'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Alone, he looks at his face in the mirror. As if he doesn't

know the person there.

With a knife, he draws out something hidden inside the wooden

backing of the mirror. A manila envelope. He empties it onto

the dresser:

Mementos among which we see, carefully preserved, the blood-

soaked bills his father gave him. Hull ignores them and picks

up...

PHOTO OF HIS CHILDREN

He smooths out the folds, stares at it as if trying to fix

this in his thoughts.

EXT. MOTEL COURTYARD - PAY PHONE - DAY

Hull on the phone. He's unusually excited, even moved.

INT. HULL'S HOUSE - CLEVELAND - DAY

Carmen on the phone, jumping up and down with excitement.

EXT. MOTEL COURTYARD - DAY

Hull pressing the phone to his face, trying to master his

emotions.

GRAINY 16MM FILM - A LABORATORY MAZE

A lab rat with a metal electrode protruding from its head,

is running a maze at high speed. A VOICE explaining things.

The rat reaches this second destination, pushes a bar, is

stimulated. A lab worker (white coat, gloves) picks up the

animal, replaces it at the start. It runs the same route.

ANOTHER SHOT -- the rat dead.

INT. A LABORATORY - DAY OR NIGHT

A 21-year-old RENEGADE from the Cal Tech chemistry department

(red hair, freckles, glasses held together with electrical

tape), a brilliant nerd. He picks up...

A MOLECULAR MODEL

Colored balls stuck together with wooden dowels.

He tears off some of the balls, sticks on new ones.

Elias is very happy. He leads Hull out.

INT. CARVER'S OFFICE - DAY

On the pyramid chart there's a black border around Ivy's

photo, as around Eddie's. A photo of Hull is now on the board

beside the one of Elias. Hull stares out the window, lost in

thought.

Hull shrugs: it's not that important. Carver turns to his

real interest.

Carver smiles, but he's non-plussed by Hull's new detachment.

Hull smiles.

Carver's impressed.

INT. HULL'S MOTEL - OFFICE - DAY

Hull in a new, expensive suit, gives the big Blonde Woman

cash.

He adds another bill. She smiles.

INT. A RENTED CONDOMINIUM - DAY

Views, open space, expensive furnishings. Hull (in another

fancy suit) is hanging a couple of Betty's masks. He's

meticulous about their placement.

Elias wanders out from the other rooms, looking around.

Hull has a moment of self-consciousness about the suit, checks

himself out in a mirror -- a private moment.

Elias flops on a couch, puts his feet on an antique coffee

table.

He hurries over, lifts Elias feet to the floor. Hull brushes

the wood, inspects it carefully, fusses, worries... Elias is

amused.

Hull starts to place stacks of cash in a briefcase. He's

momentarily mesmerized by all the money.

Hull nods.

Hull closes the briefcase, ushers Elias toward the door.

He's going out, too.

Elias laughs, surprised, afraid.

Elias feels the threat.

EXT. BETTY'S JEWELRY STORE - NIGHT

Despite the CLOSED sign, a light's on inside. Hull knocks.

No response. He keeps knocking without let-up until:

He knocks harder. Finally she appears in the doorway, stopping

short when she sees it's him. She's immediately aware of

white streaks on her grey suit. she tries to brush them off.

Hull holds up the briefcase. She sighs, unlocks the door.

INT. BETTY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

A bill counter toting up the cash. She watches it fixedly to

avoid looking at him, but she feels the chemistry.

That catches Hull off-guard, and he responds with a candor

she didn't expect.

She's startled by this remark and instinctively drawn to

him.

Embarrassed, she looks away. He takes her hand, and at his

touch something yields to her. She lets him draw her to him.

His kiss is strangely tender, searching. It turns Betty on

incredibly. She melts into him.

She leads him into...

THE SMALL OFFICE

She's sweet and loving, but her sweetness scares her. He's

all over her, but she pulls back for a moment. There is a

couch and before it a coffee table with coke scattered on a

plate.

She offers him a straw. He doesn't take it.

She's angry, hurt, confused, wants to love him, but feels he

won't let her, or she won't let herself. It's torment. Finally

she's released by a KNOCK on the door. She goes out to...

THE FRONT OF THE STORE

Lets in Elias. He smells the tension.

Hull turns to Betty. Both want to go that way instead of

this, but events are leading somewhere else. He follows Elias

out.

EXT. A SALSA CLUB - NIGHT

MUSIC pouring into the darkness.

INT. CLUB - NIGHT

Kids dancing to a live STAGE ACT. High in a wall: a lit

window.

INT. THAT ROOM - NIGHT

Very different from the club. A comfortable room with a bar,

tables, filled with men much older than the dancers below.

Barbosa and Gopher at the bar with Elias and Hull. Chino and

other SHADOWY FIGURES lurk in the room's depths.

Barbosa's impressed.

Barbosa's coked to the eyeballs, mean and dangerous.

Barbosa laughs.

Elias goes for him. He's fast and strong, and it takes Chino

and Hull to pull him off.

Barbosa's laughing, but his cheek is flecked with his own

blood, and his eyes are dead.

He puts his hands out, palms up.

It doesn't look fun. Elias glances at Hull for guidance.

Elias puts his hands out, palms up. Barbosa covers them with

his own. ON THE HANDS: Barbosa's broad, muscular with thick

gold rings and a Rolex; Elias's paler, slighter, a wedding

band and a slim watch.

Elias looks Barbosa in the eye. He's trying to be a snake,

but he's more the mouse. He looks away and as he does tries

to...

Slap him with both hands but hits only...

Air. The room breathes. Barbosa turns his rings so the big

surfaces point down.

Elias covers Barbosa's palms with his own.

ON THE HANDS: Barbosa tenses his hands. Elias yanks back.

Barbosa's hands haven't moved.

He slaps Elias across the face. Hull starts forward. A knife

appears. He stops.

Elias covers Barbosa's hands. Barbosa tenses. Elias holds

firm, and Barbosa quickly slaps both hands, hard. Elias

doubles over, holding his hands in pain.

He slaps him again, a stinging crack. Elias looks to Hull,

but they're across a canyon. Hull lowers his eyes.

ON THE HANDS. Barbosa moves his hands a millimeter, and Elias

flinches again. Barbosa smacks him across the face. The sound

reverberates through the room. Now even Gopher is silent.

Tears run from Elias's eyes, blood from his mouth, but he

doesn't move.

A MAN

steps forward out of the shadows. He is young, mid-30's,

handsome, European features, beautifully dressed, accompanied

by a guard we'll know as MOLTO. Someone murmurs to someone

else:

Hull reacts. Their eyes meet.

Barbosa shakes his head, ashamed now in front of Gallegos.

He holds out his hands. Barbosa resumes the stance, then

waits, waits, waits, and finally brings both hands down,

terribly hard, the sound of the slap is awful.

Hull leads Elias to the door right past Gallegos. Their gazes

meet again. As they go out they hear Gallegos BERATING Barbosa

in furious Spanish.

INT. STAIRCASE - NIGHT

Trembling, Elias holds his bloody hands against his chest,

as Hull leads him in silence down the steps.

He barely whispers, but it's like a shout. Hull, who'd been

avoiding his gaze, forces himself to look. Elias's humiliation

is so profound it almost ennobles him. Finally:

He laughs a terrible laugh. The door behind them opens, and

Barbosa appears with Gopher. Everyone is ready for death,

but:

He comes down the stairs, offers his hand. Elias will never

forget about it, but he silently takes the hand, holds them

in his own bloody paws, looking directly into Barbosa's face.

Barbosa becomes uneasy, manages to extract his hand. Elias

and Hull continue down and out the door. Gopher gushes to

Barbosa.

INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT

Barbosa, Gopher with Hernandez, Taft's partner. Now we know

Hernandez is corrupt: that's how they knew Eddie was talking.

Hernandez rubs thumb against fingers.

And he's gone.

Barbosa looks tired.

Barbosa faces his cocaine. He tries to resist the pull, then

yields. He does another line. It's his friend. He loves it.

He picks up a cellular phone, dials.

INT. CARVER'S OFFICE - BEFORE DAWN

Hull jacked up, excited, pleased with himself. As he paces,

Carver observes his beautiful suit, shoes, expensive watch.

He looks much better than Carver.

Carver sits up fast. Hull likes that.

Carver sits back, grimaces.

That rocks Hull. He is up, pacing.

Hull walks out.

EXT. 96TH STREET NEAR THE AIRPORT/INT. A CAR - NIGHT

Elias (no sleep) driving. Betty in front. Hull in back.

They pull into the lot of a boarded up restaurant where

Barbosa and Chino stand outside of a limousine.

EXT. BEHIND AN AIRPORT MOTEL - NIGHT

Taft and Hernandez in the same van that was outside the gym

earlier. They're watching THROUGH BINOCULARS, night scopes.

They spot Elias's car.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

The two groups meeting. Barbosa gives Betty a courtly kiss.

HULL

watching planes descend into the airport, nervous. He knows

what's coming, but how does he handle it?

Elias takes a satchel out of the rent-a-car trunk. Chino

opens the limousine's trunk. Inside is an over-sized day-glo

green plastic suitcase. He is about to pick it up.

Everyone looks at him, then the direction he's looking.

Everyone looks. They can barely see the van. Hull pulls a

gun.

Hull puts the gun to Barbosa's head, addresses Chino:

Chino moves to pick up the suitcase.

Everyone looks at Hull amazed, even Chino.

He throws the money in the limo truck, slams the lid. He's

running the show now, and everyone knows it. He's winging

it, but confident and strangely calm.

Elias, energized by Hull's command, grabs Barbosa and throws

him toward the limo.

HERNANDEZ'S POV THROUGH NIGHT SCOPE

EXT. TWO CARS - NIGHT

Hull shepherding everyone into the limo. He glances toward

the van. On instinct. He pulls Chino to him.

A RIFLE SHOT

Chino's head explodes. Betty screams.

INT. VAN - NIGHT

Taft hurling Hernandez against the wall.

EXT. TWO CARS - NIGHT

SIRENS. GUNFIRE. Elias drags Barbosa into the limo. Hull

throws Betty into the front seat. The limo takes off.

EXT. STREET/INT. LIMO - DRIVING - NIGHT

Hull driving, Betty up front. Elias with a gun on Barbosa in

back. Hull slaloms the limo through police GUNFIRE. Windows

are blown out. Glass everywhere.

She looks at him, stunned yet soothed by his certainty.

He starts to open the door.

INT. TAFT AND HERNANDEZ'S CAR - NIGHT

Racing. Taft at wheel, raging at Hernandez.

INT. LIMO - DRIVING - NIGHT

Elias wheels on him, sticks the gun in his face:

He holds them up: swollen, black and blue, cut up.

Barbosa's frozen. Elias grabs his hand, SHOOTS a bullet

through. Barbosa screams...

Elias wheels on them, swinging the gun from one to the other.

His fury makes anything seem possible. He pushes open the

door. Trembling, Barbosa starts to climb out.

The limo enters a tunnel, police still in pursuit.

Halfway out, Barbosa stops.

Elias SHOOTS him in the butt. He shrieks, jerks forward. The

cops are getting close behind.

Other cops waiting at the far end of the tunnel.

Hull hits the brakes, spins a 180 into the opposite lane.

Barbosa is flung out of the car and plastered by a succession

of fishtailing vehicles.

Hull speeds back the other way. They're going straight at:

INT. VAN - COMING STRAIGHT AT THEM - NIGHT

Taft and Hull, the two drivers, lock eyes. It's chicken, but

more than that. Two men set against each other who, for some

reason, want to be friends.

At the last instant, the van swerves away, but:

ELIAS AIMING AT TAFT

Taft sees the gun too late. He can do nothing.

Hull's gaze follows Taft's. He sees Elias, deliberately

swerves, sending the SHOT wild.

INT. LIMO - RACING - NIGHT

The limo speeds away.

EXT. STREET/INT. LIMO - DRIVING - NIGHT

The windows shot out. Hull and Betty silent, shaken. Elias

charged up, happy.

He's silent, keeps driving. She's had enough.

Hull looks at her.

He brakes to a stop. She jumps out, leans back in.

And she disappears into the night. Elias watches her go.

Hull resumes driving.

Hull accepts it.

EXT. COMMERCIAL STREET - EAST L.A. - NIGHT

Hernandez comes out of a bodega with groceries, wine and a

woman. He nuzzles her as he lets her into his car. As he's

getting behind the wheel, Molto (Gallegos' guard) stops the

door from closing. The conversation is entirely in SPANISH.

He SHOOTS him in the head. Hernandez slumps against the wheel.

The woman screams. Molto walks away.

EXT. AN APARTMENT COMPLEX/INT. BETTY'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Hull finds a door, pushes the buzzer. Betty looks through

the glass. She's afraid of him.

Then she looks closer and sees not murder in his face, but

need. She opens the door. Without a word, he gathers her to

him. She can't resist him now. Her mouth is everywhere on

him.

INT. HER BEDROOM - DAWN

Betty gasping in the wake of pleasure, turning her face away

from him, she feels so exposed.

She hides her face in his neck.

INT. SAME - LATER

They lie in each other's arms, relaxed together for the first

time. A wonderful, unprotected openness.

He laughs. They begin to make love again. Suddenly: AN EXTRA

HAND stroking Betty's hair. She gasps. A gun in Hull's ear.

Another in her face. Guns all around.

Hands pull him out of bed, leave her there alone. We see

Molto, two or three others.

EXT. A CEMETERY - MORNING

RAMON GALLEGOS lays a bouquet of white lillies on a grave.

He kneels, whispers a prayer, crosses himself.

He rises and walks to where Molto and the other guards hold

Hull and Elias. Gallegos is in his thirties, more European

than Barbosa. He has a distinctly mild manner.

An impudent question, but Elias seems strangely bright-eyed

despite the guns held on him.

A PRIEST going by greets Gallegos who responds warmly. They

chat a minute in SPANISH. The Priest leaves.

He addresses this to Hull; Elias feels left out.

Gallegos turns to leave.

He notices Hull's earring: two tiny dice, the spots made of

minuscule jewels. Unembarrassed, he fingers it.

Without waiting for an answer, he yanks it out of Hull's ear

and walks away, leaving Hull bleeding through his fingers

before a stone cross.

EXT. A GHETTO STREET - NIGHT

A club on the corner. THROUGH A WINDOW we see a RAP ACT on

the stage, their MUSIC pumping out onto the street. Hull

pulls up in a Jaguar. He and Elias go through a door adjacent

to the club.

INT. BUILDING HALL/INT. GOPHER'S ROOM - NIGHT

The MUSIC is still audible here, though muffled. Elias and

Hull are pushing at door Gopher is trying to hold closed.

Elias kicks it open, and they enter Gopher's tiny, miserable

domain. He's wearing some sort of negligee and an immense

naked woman fills his bed. We still hear the MUFFLED MUSIC.

Hull pulls him off. Elias is angry. They struggle.

Meaning: deal with me or deal with Elias.

The MUSIC continues OVER the following sequence:

INT. CRACK HOUSE - DAY

Elias arguing with a dealer. He slaps him around.

TIGHT ON HANDS

Money is exchanged. The money is stuffed in a satchel.

INT. A LAW OFFICE - DAY

A well-dressed lawyer (30's) talking with clients, a

distinguished couple in their 60's.

The door BANGS open and a secretary is unable to restrain

Hull and Elias as they charge into the room. The lawyer is

up on his feet, but Hull shoves him around as Elias politely

explains to the clients that this will only take a moment.

TIGHT ON SATCHEL

Hull's hands thrust more money in. It's getting full.

INT. A MOTORCYCLE REPAIR SHOP - NIGHT

A biker in leathers on hands-and-knees spitting blood onto

the cement floor. Hull stands over him, fists clenched.

INT. A CAR TRUNK

A satchel stuffed with money is latched, set next to another

latched one. A third is opened, money and jewelry dumped in.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Hull looking into the trunk. Elias is beat.

Elias gets in the car and drives off. Hull turns and a dark

American sedan pulls up alongside. Carver behind the wheel.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Carver peels away fast. He's very angry, frightened, too,

but that's hidden.

There's an indifference to Carver's authority we haven't

heard before. Hull isn't even aware of it, but Carver is.

EXT. SANTA MONICA PARKING STRUCTURE - OVERLOOKING OCEAN -

NIGHT

They get out of the car. Carver takes out a flask, has a

drink, offers it to Hull who declines.

Carver says nothing. Suddenly Hull understands.

Carver snorts: ridiculous.

Surprised, Carver reaches for the flask. As he does, Hull

grabs him, pushes him out over the edge of the building,

holds him there.

Carver struggles. Hull pushes him out farther. Carver dangles.

Hull pulls him back in. Carver slumps against the wall, drinks

greedily. Hull lets him for a moment, then takes the flask

away.

He slips the flask in his pocket, gets in the car, starts

engine.

Hull drives off, leaving Carver alone on the roof.

INT. BETTY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

She lets him in, sees the distress in his face.

He shakes his head, drops onto the couch. He takes out the

flask, offers it to her. She shakes her head.

He laughs, takes a drink. She's surprised, says nothing.

The revelation is so sudden it surprises Hull as much as

Betty.

She holds him, and he lets himself be held.

Pulls playfully at her nose.

He nods. He knows. He's even happy about it. But she won't

yield. Finally he gets up and walks back out the door.

EXT. GOPHER'S BUILDING - 4 A.M.

The neighborhood is reminiscent of the one where Joe Stevens

Sr. was killed. The rap club still pumps MUSIC onto the 4

A.M. streets where whores, junkies, children, teenagers with

beepers and Nikes, welfare mothers roam as if it were daytime

anywhere else. Their eyes, yearning, sullen, vital, hopeless

and hoping stare at...

HULL

Everyone knows what he is: the Black Man with the Big Car.

They don't remember when he was just another hustler making

street buys. Now they hate him, revere him, want to be him,

not caring what it entails. Every eye follows as...

He and Elias cross the street toward Gopher's door. Hull's

eyes don't go right or left. He's a driven man now.

INT. GOPHER'S ROOM - NIGHT

Gopher has just been roused from sleep. A light in his face,

Hull and Elias looming over him.

Hull and Elias look at each other.

INT. BETTY'S STORE - MORNING

Taft is showing her photocopies of phone bills, bank

transactions, invoices. She's obviously upset.

She covers her face.

EXT. EAST L.A. STREET/INT. CAR - DAY

Elias driving a car we haven't seen before and snickering to

himself at some private joke.

Elias shakes his head: nothing. He laughs. They pull into

the lot beside a movie theater.

INT. THEATER - DAY

A Technicolor Spanish melodrama is winding to its lurid end.

A door in back opens, and a burst of daylight reveals Hull

and Elias being brought in by a guard and met by Molto.

Molto and the guard frisk them, take their guns and money

satchels, make them wait a moment until...

The movie ends.

The house lights come on revealing Ramon Gallegos as the

only spectator in the theater. He beckons. Molto and the

guard bring Hull and Elias down the aisle to him.

Gallegos looking in the satchels. A tense moment.

Gallegos is stern for a moment, then laughs.

Everybody relaxes. Gallegos scribbles something on a piece

of paper, hands it to the guard who feeds it into a fax

machine.

Elias seems a bit mad, but no one minds. He and Hull are

ready to go. He gestures to Molto, wants his gun back.

Gallegos gestures to Molto to give them the guns.

Hull looks at Elias; what's going on?

He brings up the gun and SHOOTS Gallegos in the head.

Hull and the guards are frozen. Then everyone goes for a

gun. Elias SHOOTS the guard. Hull has his gun to Molto's

head and screams at Elias:

Meaning don't shoot him. But Elias has no intention of doing

so.

He can't believe it: the guy he's been after the whole time

is dead on the floor.

Molto nods.

EXT. THEATER PARKING LOT/INT. CAR - DAY

Hull, Elias and Molto getting into their car. Molto is

recalcitrant. Elias pistol whips him. Hull stops him.

EXT. SAN FERNANDO VALLEY/INT. CAR - DAY

The car passes through a development of suburban homes. They

enter a driveway. Two boys play in the yard.

Molto is silent. Elias FIRES a bullet right between his feet.

Molto jumps. The boys turn. Hull grabs the gun away. We feel

the toll Elias's madness is taking on him.

And, indeed, Molto is pointing to a Winnebago parked at the

rear of the property.

EXT. REAR OF PROPERTY - DAY

Winnebago. With a tire iron, Hull snaps off the padlock that

holds the rear door closed. He opens the door. Money gushes

out. He slams it closed.

He, Elias and Molto are on hands and knees scooping it up.

SAME - LATER

Molto tied to a tree. Elias is giving him instructions while,

strangely, removing Molto's shoes and socks.

Molto just glares at him. Elias smiles, takes the shoes and

socks and all the contents of Molto's into the Winnebago,

and he and Hull drive away, leaving the car behind.

EXT./INT. A PARKING GARAGE/INT. WINNEBAGO - EVENING

The Winnebago enters the garage, Elias greeting the attendant,

"Hey, Frank." Frank waves him in.

The garage is filled with various RVs. Hull pulls the

Winnebago into an empty spot beside Elias's car and gets

out. Elias remains in the cabin making calculations.

As he does, Hull checks his gun, walks around behind the

vehicle and prepares to shoot Elias in the back of the head

through the open window. Elias finishes his money report,

and sits there as if unaware of Hull, but:

Hull uncocks the gun, rubs it against his burning face. Elias

turns around, embraces him.

Elias smiles.

EXT. BETTY'S JEWELRY SHOP - EVENING

A car SQUEALS to a stop. Molto and three thugs smash through

the glass door. They disappear into the store where things

can be heard BREAKING. They emerge a moment later, jump into

the car.

EXT. SYNAGOGUE - EVENING

Hull's car races up. He jumps out, dashes toward the building.

INT. SYNAGOGUE SOCIAL HALL - EVENING

Forty PEOPLE on folding chairs. Hull enters on a dead run.

He stops short when he sees:

BETTY

at the front. He signals to her, but she's already saying:

The room bursts into APPLAUSE. She sees Hull at the back; he

signals to her, but she goes on.

She's looking right at Hull as she speaks. He's torn between

the danger he knows she's in and his emotion at what she's

saying.

EXT. SYNAGOGUE - EVENING

Hull hurrying Betty toward his car. She's protesting.

INT. HULL'S CONDO - EVENING

Molto and men pouring through it. In frustration, Molto

smashes the table Hull had fussed over when Elias put his

feet up.

EXT. MOTEL COURTYARD - NIGHT

Hull and Betty hurry toward his room carrying shopping bags,

a newly bought suitcase. They see...

COPS

They freeze, turn, ready to bolt. But more cops behind them.

A panic, yet no one's coming after them. They walk on. The

cops are going into and coming out of Belinda's room.

INT. BELINDA'S ROOM - NIGHT

The fat Blonde Woman is talking to a policewoman. James sits

on the bed staring at...

BELINDA

who lies dead on a floor littered with crack vials. Hull

picks up a vial, holds it up to the Blonde Woman with a

question.

The boy allows himself to be led out. Betty looks at Hull

who's in a private hell.

EXT. COURTYARD - NIGHT

Hull and Betty are about to enter Hull's room. The door is

ajar.

INT. HULL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Taft stands at the dresser. He's found Hull's collection of

memorabilia and is looking at the photo of his children.

He snatches away the photo, but not before Betty sees it.

She reaches out her hand. He reluctantly turns it over to

her.

Hull doesn't answer, collects the rest of his things,

including the bloody money, stuffs it back in the envelope.

He leaves. Hull turns to Betty who is still holding the photo

of his children. He gently takes it, looks at it, seems to

draw both succor and pain from it.

He gets out Carver's flask and tries to drink, but it's empty.

Hull's upset.

He empties his pockets of all that gushed out of the

Winnebago, empties a satchel as well until it fills the room

like snow.

EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT

Hull putting Betty into an airport limousine.

She kisses him. He's about to close the door. She stops it.

This news startles Hull, yet, strangely, he senses its truth,

and the sweetness is more than he can bear.

She closes the door. The car pulls away.

In an unmarked car up the street, Taft picks up the radio.

EXT. A LATIN AMERICAN CONSULATE - DAY

A limousine pulls into the gate and disgorges RENALDO GUZMAN,

55, and his wife, 25. They're shown into the consulate.

The limousine pulls out onto the street and parks. Gopher

appears, knocks on the driver's window. It comes down. They

chat briefly in Spanish. Gopher opens up a cellular phone.

INT. A HOTEL ROOM - SANTA MONICA - DAY

Overlooking the ocean. Hull pacing nervously, Elias relaxed,

reading the paper.

A phone RINGS. Elias picks up his own cellular.

EXT. CONSULATE - LIMO - DAY

Gopher hands a piece of paper to the limo driver. He walks

away...

AROUND THE CORNER

As he's about to get into a car, Taft grabs him. Gopher is

surprised and not pleased.

EXT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

Where Hull and Elias left the Winnebago. Guzman's limo

approaches. Frank, the attendant, waves it on.

INT. GARAGE - NIGHT

The limo climbs the ramps until it comes to Elias's car,

parked where the Winnebago was; the Winnie is nowhere in

sight. The limo pulls alongside.

Hull and Elias get out. Molto gets out of the limo. Then

Renaldo Guzman.

Guzman waves: get to the point.

He hands a copy to Guzman and the lawyer.

EXT. GARAGE - NIGHT

Taft with Gopher in his car.

Gopher shrugs; a decision: Taft picks up his radio.

INT. GARAGE - NIGHT

He indicates the prospectus that Guzman has been looking

through.

Elias produces one. Guzman gestures to Molto. Molto samples

it. Molto's eyes widen.

Elias hands him a key, points to a different Winnebago. Molto

takes the key, unlocks the back: money. He signals okay to

Guzman.

Suddenly: SIRENS. Police cars wail into the garage. The THWACK-

THWACK and sweeping light of a helicopter descend toward the

roof (though we never see the copter).

Everybody scatters. The garage is a labyrinth of cement

stairwells, ramps, hundreds of RVs to hide between, under

and so forth... Lots of NOISE, lights, but mostly we see

Hull and Elias dodging here, avoiding the action.

INT. ANOTHER PART OF THE GARAGE - NIGHT

Molto caught between the lights. He draws his gun. GUNFIRE.

He's cut down.

EXT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

Cars with rotating dome lights, but not many cops.

Hull and Elias emerge from a shadowy doorway and make their

way at a casual pace beyond the perimeter of police cars,

quickly mingling with other spectators. They continue down...

EXT. A QUIET SIDE STREET - NIGHT

Strolling now. Elias elated, uncontained joy.

Hull stops walking and just stands there.

In one motion, Elias draws his gun, turns and FIRES.

The figure goes down. Elias can't believe he hit him.

Hull starts toward the figure.

Taft -- on the ground.

He drops to his knees. Blood oozes from Taft's chest.

Hull tries to hold closed the wound. The posture duplicates

Hull with his dying father. He feels for a pulse. For breath.

He pulls at Hull who won't go. Hull does mouth-to-mouth.

Taft opens his eyes, looks up at him.

Taft grunts once, stiffens.

The pulse is gone. Hull begins to perform CPR.

Hull keeps doing CPR.

Hull keeps working on Taft.

He puts a gun to Taft's head and FIRES. In a reflex, Hull

draws his own gun, SHOOTS Elias in the stomach. Stunned, he

wobbles backward a few steps. Sits on the street.

Hull is stunned he did it. And this finally attracts the

police who see a black man with a gun who just shot a white

man.

Hull goes to Elias who's dead. A POLICEMAN pulls him off,

beating him with a gun.

INT. LOS ANGELES COUNTY JAIL - DAY

Hull, bandaged, wearing prison blues, walking with Carver.

Hull looks at him; how did he know?

He beckons him. He walks him over to a cell. Through a one-

way window they see:

BETTY

alone in the cell, unaware she's being watched.

Hull just looks at him. Carver shrugs apologetically.

INT. ANOTHER ROOM

Absolutely white. Not a window, not a stick of furniture.

The only deviation is Hull in prison blues.

The door opens, Betty comes in wearing prison yellows. She

sits on a nearly invisible chair. They know they're being

watched.

She shakes her head in cynical understanding. How difficult

it is to get back to an honorable life.

He takes her hand.

She looks at him.

AN IRIS SHOT - HULL AND BETTY

Silent. Kissing. Beginning to make love. Hull extracts

himself, gives the finger to the POV and stuffs a bit of

tissue in the iris, blocking our view.

EXT. ROOM - DAY

Carver takes his eye from the now obscured peephole.

EXT. A CEMETERY - DAY

A funeral. Taft's wife and children (from the wallet photo)

leave the graveside with the rest of the funeral party.

When everyone is gone, Hull approaches the grave. From his

pocket, he removes the four blood-soaked bills his father

gave him, and wedges these among the stems of flowers that

already cover the plot.

He's silent a moment, then he gets up. He joins Carver who's

standing with Hull's children. The kids each take his hand,

they walk together.

They do. Hull watches them go.

Carver smiles, shakes his head. He likes a good joke. Hull

punches him so hard in the stomach that he goes to his knees.

He walks away. Still on his knees, doubled over, Carver

whispers after him:

FADE OUT.

