FADE IN:

CASTLE - NIGHT

Now comes the moon riding over the horizon. Upon a hill at

the edge of the wood squats a castle, its crude stonework

bathed in cold silvery light. Queer carvings and runes

decorate the ponderous gate. Heavy vines are climbing up the

walls. The castle is old, its unfamiliar form testament to

an ancient mind and an ancient craft. Flickering candle light

dances on a leaded windowpane.

Inside, the corridors are dark and silent. Under low arched

ceilings the uneven floors are paved with stone blocks.

Perched over lintels and crouched in niches are icons with

strange animal heads.

HODGE

A sleep on a straw palette in a room strewn with vegetables

and crockery is Hodge, a wrinkled old retainer. A flickering

candle and empty jug are beside the bed. He is snoring gently.

CONJURING ROOM

This circular chamber at the heart of the castle is stuffed

with parchments, scrolls, dusty books, bronze braziers, glass

retorts, chemical salts, birds both stuffed and caged. An

iron candelabra stands on a work table, tapers burning. In

the soft glow it seems that the room is unoccupied, but no,

moving in the background is a shadowy figure, preparing for

a magical deed. Feet are positioned carefully within a

pentagram chiseled into the floor. A scroll is consulted; up

comes an arm and a voice blurts out:

Nothing happens.

But the little flames stand at attention without so much as

a tremble.

It's no use. There is a sigh and the figure moves forward

into the light. Revealed in the glow is the discouraged face

of Galen Bradwardyn, sorcerer's apprentice.

TOWER

Carrying the candelabra, the youth trudges up a circular

staircase.

TURRET

The highest point of the castle is a turret, open to the

stars and the night air. Here, more magic is afoot. An old

enchanter, Ulrich, Magister Ipsissimus, pours water from a

silver ewer into a stone bowl. As the surface ripples

disappear he leans forward and gazes into the pool. All at

once his face hardens as the distant sounds of screams and

thunder reach his ears. Lights and shadows, reflected from

within the basin, play across his face. His frown deepens as

the sound of his own voice comes to him from the vision in

the water -- Draco draconis -- suddenly squelched by the

roar of flame and an ugly snarl.

At that moment Galen reaches the top of the steps and holds

up the candelabra.

Ulrich, startled from his trance, slaps the water out of the

basin and turns to confront his student. Galen is taken aback

by the old man's grim countenance.

With a distracted gesture he causes the flames to extinguish

themselves.

BARNYARD - DAY

Outside the castle wall Hodge is feeding the chickens and

ducks. He straightens up and squints through the early morning

mists. On a distant hillock two figures are moving toward

the woods.

ULRICH AND GALEN

Hobbling slowly with the aid of a pair of canes, Ulrich guides

his pupil across a wooden bridge and along a stream into the

forest.

Ulrich gauges the young man standing before him and makes a

decision. Reaching under his cloak he lifts off a fine silver

chain with an amulet dangling from it. He drapes it around

Galen's neck.

Galen instinctively wraps his hand around the jewel. He cocks

an ear.

He hastens forward to a promontory, eager to have a look.

Ulrich does not follow. Instead, doffing his cloak, he whirls

it before him, where it magically floats a few feet off the

ground. Awkwardly, the old man clambers aboard.

He turns back, but the wizard is gone. A shadow falls over

him. He looks up. There, two hundred feet above the tree

tops his master is soaring on the wind.

AIRBORNE

The old conjurer squints into the distance. Miles away and

far below a company of drab walkers winds along the margins

of the forest. They are singing a mournful round.

GALEN

He gawks skyward. Suddenly, the old man leans down and

addresses him.

ROTUNDA - NIGHT

Clustering together in the center of a wide reception hall

is a contingent of weary peasants, awkward amidst the dusty

rugs, drapes and heavy furniture. Their leader is a fineboned

youth, not yet twenty. Like the others, he is uneasy; his

name is Valerian. Hodge enters and sets a tray of mead before

them. He leaves without a word. The visitors stare glumly at

the refreshment, but are too timorous to go near it.

CONJURING ROOM

Galen helps Ulrich prepare for the audience. The sorcerer

peers at himself in a full-length mirror, adjusting the hem

of a black robe.

He backs away from the mirror and fits a silver coronet onto

his head.

The sorcerer starts down a circular stone staircase.

THE ROTUNDA

The visitors watch warily as a door swings open and Galen

makes his entrance, his face expressionless and hands pressed

together. He looks rather young to be the famous Ulrich.

Galen allows a moment to go by, then throws his arms wide.

Ka-whump! and Ulrich appears in the doorway in a smoky

fireball. Alarmed, the visitors retreat.

Pffst! around the room candles flare in their niches.

In the fireplace, the birch logs are suddenly ablaze. Ulrich

totters to the hearth and extends long bony fingers toward

the warmth.

The travelers are suitably dazzled by the magician's

performance. The young leader of the party screws up his

courage and speaks.

The travelers exchange nervous glances. Valerian motions to

one of his companions. The man steps forward and hands over

a leather pouch. One by one, Valerian places the contents on

the table for Ulrich's inspection.

At this, Ulrich advances and closely examines three shimmering

irridescent disks as big as saucers.

Valerian reaches under his jerkin and withdraws what appears

to be a curved sword. He jabs it into the table.

He runs a finger along a serrated edge and gazes bleakly at

his visitors.

Valerian has lost all trace of timidity.

With a sigh, Ulrich lowers himself into a chair. He rubs his

withered legs and shakes his head.

Greil, a grizzled peasant, speaks up.

Galen edges over to the table and inspects the scales and

tooth.

He broods for a long time.

COURTYARD - DAY

The travelers are making ready for departure in the grey

light of dawn. As Hodge stuffs provisions into a wicker box,

Ulrich wraps padding on a newly fashioned pair of crutches.

Hodge mutters something inaudible and grimly keeps packing.

Galen crouches against the castle wall; he regards his master

sullenly.

Galen gets up and calls out to the Urlanders.

This is too much for Hodge.

Galen approaches the old sorcerer.

The walkers are ready to set forth. Hodge picks up his pack,

steps forward and pulls open the great gate.

HORSEMEN

Three mounted men are outside the gate, helmets on their

heads, swords on the belts and longbows across their

shoulders. They look formidable. The Urlanders take a step

backward.

Tyrian is a lean, heavily bearded nobleman. There is a coat

of arms on the shield strapped to the pommel of his saddle.

Sensing trouble, Galen moves forward. Ulrich touches his

arm.

Galen hears the urgency in the old man's voice and obeys.

Hodge takes it upon himself to deal with the strangers.

Tyrian dismounts and saunters up to the old magician.

When Ulrich finally speaks, his voice is low and

authoritative.

Galen's eyes widen with alarm.

Galen dashes into the castle. Ulrich gazes almost shyly at

Tyrian.

CONJURING ROOM

Galen comes puffing up the steps, locates the iron box, and

flings it open. Amidst the tawdry paraphernalia of a

professional magician is an ivory-handled dagger covered

with runic inscriptions. Galen eagerly examines it to see

how the blade might twist aside or collapse into the handle,

but it is all too genuine. A murder weapon.

Galen throws open a window and looks down into the courtyard.

He displays the dagger.

Galen hesitates, then tosses it. Tumbling end over end, it

arcs downward. The old conjurer calmly stretches out a hand

and plucks it neatly out of the air. Galen watches as Ulrich

passes the weapon to Tyrian and strips back his robe exposing

a bony chest. Galen knows what's coming. He rushes for the

door. He's only a step away when it bangs shut of its own

accord. He sprints for a second exit. Whack! This door slams

shut too. Locked in. Quick, back to the window and climb

down the vine... Smack! the heavy shutters seal him in.

ULRICH AND TYRIAN

Ulrich takes Tyrian's arm and guides the point of the dagger

to his breastbone.

Everyone is filled with dread. Hodge is shaking. From the

castle come the rattling of shutters and Galen's muffled

cries. A sick sarcastic smile has crept over Tyrian's lips.

He tenses himself to thrust.

CONJURING ROOM

Galen stops hammering and presses his face to a crack in the

shutter. Below he can see the participants in this grisly

drama. He holds his breath. Tyrian makes a sudden movement

and buries the blade in Ulrich's chest. But the sorcerer

stands unbent, seemingly unhurt. Then, after a long moment,

he slowly sags forward over the dagger and the hand that

holds it. Tyrian shrinks back and allows the body to fall in

a heap. Very quickly he remounts. In another moment he and

his companions are gone. The others are riveted in horror.

Hodge sinks to his knees and wails his grief.

Galen turns away from the window and gazes blankly into the

gloomy conjuring room. Click! The doors unlatch themselves

and swing open.

FUNERAL PYRE - DAY

Ulrich, principal magician and sorcerer of the western world,

reposes on a hardwood pyre. His hands are folded on his chest.

His face is peaceful. While the visitors wordlessly look on,

Galen touches a burning brand to the kindling. At first the

fire catches normally enough, but when the flames start to

envelop the body they suddenly turn pale green, producing an

unearthly roar. The onlookers back away from the intense

heat.

GALEN

The erstwhile apprentice stands his ground, blinking back

tears, his face weirdly illuminated by the fire.

CONJURING ROOM - DAY

Galen sits alone amidst the museum-like collection of magical

apparatus. He stares at the amulet, considering its

significance. His reverie is interrupted by the murmur of

voices below. At the window he looks down to see Hodge bidding

farewell to the delegation from Urland. Valerian is the last

to leave. He pauses at the gate and glances up at Galen.

Then he moves on. The young student of magic sets his jaw,

suddenly filled with resolve.

Moving through the room, he busies himself with the old man's

effects. He scoops up the loose books and parchments and

locks them into trunks. He drapes muslin cloths over the

alchemical devices. He sows a handful of salt over the

pentagram inscribed in the floor. Finally, he opens the cages

and releases the crow, the falcon, and the great horned owl.

COURTYARD

Hodge is up on the burned out funeral pyre, anxiously scraping

ashes and small bones into a leather pouch -- the remains of

Ulrich. Up behind him comes Galen, now clad in a traveler's

cloak, with a pack on his back and a staff in his hand.

Hodge quickly conceals the pouch.

He quickly climbs down, picks up his pack and follows Galen

out through the gate. As the door is pushed shut a huge oaken

timber falls into place, barring the castle against the

uninvited.

HILLTOP - DAY

Galen and Hodge labor to the crest of a grassy hill and turn

to look back across a wide valley. There on another hilltop

on the far side sits Cragganmore, lit by the red rays of the

setting sun. Galen removes the amulet from his neck and

clutches it in his fist. Hodge is bug-eyed to see it.

He raises his hands toward the castle and calls out:

CRAGGANMORE

The vines on the castle walls begin to twitch and stretch,

magically brought to animate life. They flow upward over the

masonry, branching out and covering every surface, then up

onto the roof. Finally only the tops of the chimneys and the

highest turrets stand above the green carpet. A century's

growth in a matter of seconds.

GALEN & HODGE

On their hilltop the old retainer gives the youth a fearful

look. Galen is too flushed with excitement over what he has

done to notice.

FOREST PATH - DAY

Galen and Hodge trudge along an overgrown cart-track under

an arch of trees.

The apprentice's mind is elsewhere: he's got a coin hovering

in mid-air above his palm, bobbing gently as he walks.

He plucks a low-hanging leaf, waves a hand over it, and

watches it turn into a spray of daffodils.

He gives the pack a slap. It flies out of its harness and

floats alongside them. Hodge snatches it back and clutches

it tightly.

A great coat drapes itself over Hodge's shoulders.

The greatcoat disappears, as do the rest of his garments,

leaving him in his smalls.

Suppressing a grin, Galen mercifully waves his hand and

restores Hodge to his usual costume.

TRAVELERS' CAMP - NIGHT

The Urlanders are gathered around a fire, sharing a meager

supper. The man named Greil pokes at the stew-pot.

He walks up and down behind Valerian.

Malkin, an older man, speaks up.

There is a noise from the darkness beyond the campfire. Two

of the men get to their feet and listen. At first silence,

then more rustling. Without a word the two men dart into the

bushes and haul two interlopers before the company: Galen

and Hodge.

Galen surveys the puzzled faces. He draws himself up and

plunges in:

There is a moment of depressed silence. Hodge rolls his eyes.

Greil starts to chuckle, then to laugh. Soon the others are

laughing too.

Someone brings out a dagger and hands it to Greil. Valerian

pushes it away.

But Greil persists, waving the knife at the group.

He lashes out with the knife. Galen jumps back, but Valerian

steps in, delivering a quick kick to Greil's gut, followed

by a right to the jaw that sends the bigger man sprawling.

He takes the knife.

He propels Galen out of harm's way and sits him down on the

other side of the fire. Greil nurses his jaw.

Valerian hands Galen a plate of food.

They both look up at the moon.

DRAGON COUNTRY - NIGHT

The moon shines down on the far reaches of the Kingdom of

Urland, coldly lighting a barren landscape filled with the

skeletons of dead trees, blackened rock and bare ground.

Advancing across this mournful terrain is a troop of armed

men leading a blindfolded horse and tumbril. The horse is

skittish. Finally, in spite of shouts and lashings, it refuses

to go further. The leader, Horsrik, barks out an order:

A young woman, no more than seventeen, is brought forth from

the cart. Long black hair falls down over a white tunic. Her

dark eyes dart fearfully around in her pale face. She is

half-carried, half dragged to the edge of a steaming crack

in the ground where she is manacled to a wooden post. By

lantern-light, Horsrik reads from a parchment scroll.

There is a low rumble; the earth shakes. Horsrik glances

nervously around. He carries on by rote.

He prods the girl, but she is too terrified to speak. Beneath

them, the earth seems to groan. Smoke issues from the mouth

of the pit. One of the nervous witnesses leans forward.

The horse suddenly rears, and blindfold notwithstanding,

gallops off, dragging the tumbril over the rocks. The men

behind Horsrik break ranks and scatter.

Now Horsrik joins the flight, chasing his men back over the

murky horizon.

THE GIRL

She strains against her manacles, cocking her head to listen

as the rumblings below subside. Presently the steam and smoke

blow away and she can see the horse pawing and stamping a

hundred yards distant, the wheel of the cart jammed between

rocks. Summoning up a wild will to live, she squeezes her

hands against the cold iron rings. No use. She spits on her

wrists and twists desperately. Blood starts. One hand slips

free. She looks at the horse. The animal tosses off its

blindfold and looks back at her. Now she strains again and

pulls her other hand free. She wipes the blood on her frock

and sprints toward the horse. But she doesn't get there. The

earth abruptly shifts from under her feet, tumbling her among

cracked and steaming rocks. When she raises her head a huge

shadow has fallen over the horse. There is a piteous whinny,

then a roar. The girl's face is suddenly lit by flames. She

scrambles to her feet and rushes back the other way.

THE CHASE

The girl hasn't taken a dozen steps when something huge

hurtles forward and blocks her way. Something scaly and

glittering. She whirls and stumbles off in a new direction.

This time she's cut off by a monstrous claw tipped with rapier-

like talons. She screams and crawls away. Another claw

prevents her escape.

THE CREATURE

Membranous wings fold down against the night sky. Up comes

the silhouette of a reptilian head swaying on a serpentine

neck. There's an angry hiss. A sheet of flame envelops

everything.

FADE IN:

FOREST - DAY

Tyrian kneels beside a mountain waterfall, having a drink

while his men hover in the background. One of them points

down the slope.

Tyrian wipes his mouth unhurriedly and strolls over to look.

Far below, half hidden by trees, the little company of

Urlanders winds its way through the forest.

A frown creeps over Tyrian's face.

HODGE

Hodge marches along with the rest. When he's sure no one

else is looking he burrows into his garments and brings out

the leather pouch containing Ulrich's ashes. Reassured that

it's still with him, he tucks it away again. Galen falls

into step.

They pass Valerian, who has dropped out of line.

Hodge snorts and fusses with his pack.

He glances over and discovers Galen missing.

GALEN

He walks back along the trail, looking for Valerian. Pretty

soon the rest of the travelers are out of sight. He hears

the sound of a splash. He turns off the trail and pushes

through some shrubbery.

FOREST POOL

Under the oaks and hickory, a forest stream has widened into

a quiet pool. A pile of clothes lies on a rock at the edge.

Out in the middle, Valerian is treading water.

Galen leans over and splashes some water on his face. Feels

good. He shucks his pack and starts to throw off his clothes.

Valerian doesn't like it.

But Galen is now naked and walking into the water. He swims

out toward Valerian.

Galen keeps swimming.

But Galen has slipped beneath the surface; he doesn't hear.

UNDERWATER

Galen works his way through the murky green underwater world.

Suddenly, he stops short and stares. He's only a few feet

from Valerian's dangling legs. He gasps in surprise. Valerian

is no boy.

ON THE SURFACE

Galen comes shooting to the surface, coughing and sputtering.

Valerian is pale and frightened.

She propels herself backward, then turns and swims for shore.

ON THE SHORE

Galen and Valerian have taken refuge behind separate bushes.

Briskly they pull on their clothes.

They finish dressing in silence. Finally:

He studies her. She jams a hat down over her head and, once

more the young man, stalks off.

THE VISION

Galen walks down to the edge of the pool to retrieve his

pack. As he leans over he catches sight of what appears to

be a reflection in the water: Tyrian on horseback. He whips

around, but no one is behind him. Riveted by the vision, he

hurries along the bank to follow it. After a few paces the

blurry figure dismounts, unslings a longbow, nocks an arrow

and draws the string taut.

FOREST

Galen sprints through the trees. Up ahead is Valerian, walking

resolutely.

She glances back at him and grimly keeps on walking. Galen

shoots past her and on into the forest.

TRAVELERS

Galen races up the trail rounds a bend and sees the Urlanders

coming toward him. Hodge precedes the group with an unsteady

gait. He sees Galen, raises up his arms and flops face down

on the trail. A long arrow protrudes from his back. Galen

kneels beside him. The uneasy company keeps its distance.

Hodge struggles to speak.

Hodge's hand comes out from under his coat gripping the

leather pouch. Galen tugs at it, but Hodge can't let go.

Galen pries the sack out of Hodge's clenched fingers. Suddenly

the hand comes up, grabs Galen by the hair, and pulls him

near.

He dies. Galen frees himself from his grasp.

Galen is frantic. He pulls out the amulet and wraps his hand

around it.

But Hodge has passed on, and Galen's magic has no way to

reach him. Suddenly the youth cries out in pain. He drops

the amulet and looks at his palm. The device has burned his

flesh. Now he becomes aware of troubled Urlanders looking

over his shoulder, witness to his failure.

LAKE - DAY

Wind whips the leaden wave tops on a vast rainy lake. The

travelers are rowing across in an open longboat, aided by a

tattered lateen sail. Valerian mans the steering oar at the

stern while Galen broods in the bow. He feels like an imposter

in their eyes.

FJORD

The boat pulls into a long narrow waterway with granite cliffs

on either side. Moving through swirls of fog, they beach the

boat and step out onto a craggy shore. Greil leans over and

kisses a rock.

DRAGON COUNTRY - DAY

The travelers descend a mountain pass and emerge through a

wrack of cloud into a gray and cheerless region. Fire-

blackened trees dot the barren landscape. As they reach the

flatlands, the Urlanders instinctively pick up the pace.

Galen slows to inspect the weird surroundings. Valerian trots

past him.

Galen falls into step with her.

Galen looks around with new interest.

Galen stops. High on the slope beside them is a gaping

fissure.

But Galen is already toiling up the incline.

The travelers turn to see what's the matter.

THE LAIR

Galen approaches the lair, pausing beside a wooden post with

iron manacles dangling from it. He fingers them thoughtfully.

Malkin, Greil and Valerian rush up behind him, their faces

drawn with worry.

Instead, Galen starts into the crack. Greil and Malkin hasten

away, but Valerian lingers, watching in mounting frustration

as Galen probes further and further into the lair. She picks

up a fistful of stones and throws them at him.

But Galen is lost in the gloom. She flees.

UNDERGROUND

Galen puts his hand on the rugged wall: the rocks are hot to

the touch. Something glinting on the floor catches Galen's

eye: an irridescent disk, a dragon scale. It flashes the

colors of the rainbow as Galen examines it. All at once the

ground shudders; chunks of rock fall from the ceiling. A

pall of smoke billows up from the depths.

OUTSIDE

Galen staggers out of the fissure coughing and gagging in a

swirl of smoke. There is no sign of the Urlanders. He throws

down his pack, climbs onto a huge boulder and surveys the

massive cliffs rising behind the lair. He grasps the amulet

and closes his eyes.

LANDSLIDE

With a thunderous splitting sound, the entire top of the

cliff pitches forward and topples onto the lower half of the

mountain, sweeping tons of debris into the air. Boulders the

size of houses bound down the mountain toward the magician.

Eyes wide with awe, he turns and runs for his life. Even as

he careens down the slope, chunks of rock rumble past. One

catches him at the knee and sends him flying.

He covers his head and joins the landslide. Finally the dust

lifts and he finds himself in a gully face to face with the

cowering Urlanders. They look with real fear at the man who

just conjured up the Apocalypse. Tattered and torn, covered

with dirt, Galen climbs up out of the shelter for a look at

his handiwork.

LANDSCAPE

The territory has been drastically transformed: the dragon's

lair is now buried beneath hundreds of tons of broken granite.

The Urlanders look upon the new landscape with stupefaction.

Galen grins a triumphant split-lip grin that fails to win

them over. Presently they back away and run off down the

trail, Valerian in their midst. Galen's grin fades.

VILLAGE - DAY

The Village of Swanscombe is little more than a rough and

ready collection of thatched huts and mud-daubed outbuildings

surrounded by cultivated fields. Dogs sleep in open door-

ways; chickens peck around the communal well -- but there

are no people in evidence as Valerian and her company troop

into town.

VALERIAN

She trots across the square and enters a deserted blacksmith

shop.

She goes over to the forge. Hot coals are burning. She becomes

aware of a sound -- voices -- chanting.

SQUARE

She walks across the square toward the voices. She is joined

by Greil, Malkin and the other travelers, all of them puzzled

by the desolation. As they approach the grange hall the voices

grow louder. They seem to be singing. The main doors open

briefly and three villagers scamper out, dripping wet and

wrapped in white muslin. Valerian and her companions look at

each other in astonishment.

IN THE GRANGE HALL

In a wooden cistern in the middle of the hall a woman is

being held under water. After a few moments she is pulled to

the surface by a tall red-haired man with long bony fingers:

Brother Jacopus Januensis, a Carthusian monk. There's a wooden

cross on his chest and a mad look in his eye. Gathered around

him are the missing villagers, every man woman and child,

here to be baptised and sing a few newly-learned hymns in

praise of Our Lord Jesus Christ.

The travelers enter and mingle with the congregation. Valerian

scans the crowd until she locates her father, Simon, a balding

sturdy journeyman. He's overjoyed at her return and gives

her a hearty embrace.

He points to the monk, who is dunking a screaming infant and

carrying on about the Bishop of Rome.

MONK

Brother Jacopus strides back and forth before the assembly

in an inspired state.

This is Galen, who has just stepped into the hall, tattered,

bedraggled and triumphant.

He marches to the center of the gathering.

He gestures boldly and a fireball crackles at the monk's

feet. The holy man scurries back. A hush falls upon the

congregation.

DRAGON COUNTRY - DAY

A procession of curious villagers winds its way into the

badlands. They gather on a promontory overlooking the dragon's

lair. They stand there for a long time, a chill wind whipping

their garments, trying to understand what's happened. The

monk is mightily displeased.

Indeed, Galen's act is already the stuff of legend:

Some of the younger villagers scamper forward to the spot

where the cave had its opening. With yells and whoops they

beat the ground with clubs. In the crowd Simon begins to

smile, then to laugh. Soon he leads the villagers in a

tumultuous cheer. Brother Jacopus and some of his converts

drop to their knees and pray.

CELEBRATION

The inhabitants of Swanscombe have decked out the town square

and are making a night of it. By torchlight they dance merrily

to jigs and reels provided by the local fiddlers. Ale flows

freely from oak casks.

VALERIAN'S HOUSE

Valerian is kneeling before a trunk full of women's clothing.

She pulls out a long simple frock, goes to a crude mirror,

and holds it up against her body to gauge the effect. Her

father comes up behind her. He is angry and frightened.

He sits on the bed and puts his head in his hands.

He looks up at her, trying to imagine what it's going to be

like having a daughter.

CELEBRATION

Galen is surrounded by a crowd of wide-eyed kids and not a

few adults, entertaining them by pulling duck's eggs out of

their ears and causing coins to disappear. Presently he feels

the attention of his audience shift away to someone standing

behind him. He turns to find a shy but determined Valerian

sweetly decked out in her blue frock. A buzz goes through

the crowd. Valerian blushes and wavers: she seems ready to

bolt for home. But Galen takes her by the hand, and with

conspicuous politesse leads her to the dance.

DANCE

It's forward, back and around sixth-century style: the young

sorcerer can't take his eyes off his partner. But she's too

shy to return his gaze.

Valerian doesn't know what to say.

She still doesn't reply. It's all she can do to keep on

dancing.

SIMON & GREIL

They stand on the sidelines, watching the young couple step

to the music.

CELEBRATION

While the proud Simon dances in the background with his

daughter, a group of tipsy villagers clusters around Galen,

belching forth a drinking song. The young magician raises

his own mug and joins in on the chorus. Abruptly the music

stops. The singing dies away. The ensuing silence is broken

by the sound of galloping hooves. Presently three horsemen

appear at the end of town: Tyrian and his henchmen. They

guide their horses forward into the midst of the merry-makers.

Tyrian dismounts and looks around in his usual friendly way.

The musicians leave their instruments in their laps. Tyrian

draws himself a measure of ale and raises it above his head.

Tyrian's smile freezes on his face. He steps in front of

Galen, towering over him.

Tyrian regards her coolly, taking in her change of costume

and its meaning.

Having buried the dragon under a mountain, Galen decides

he's not worried about an appearance at court. He smiles at

Valerian.

RIDERS

Three horses gallop through the moors and fens of central

Urland. Galen is tucked up behind Tyrian. On the distant

horizon, the battlements of the King's castle glow in the

slanting light of a new day.

THRONE ROOM - DAY

Within the castle is a great hall with shafts of daylight

poking in through narrow windows set high in the walls. In

the middle of the room stands a carved oak throne. There is

Casiodorus Rex, King of Urland, a bearded man in his fifties,

as spare and somber as the room in which he sits. He is

flanked by a few servants, assorted courtiers and Tyrian.

Standing before them all is Galen, looking unhappy. He pours

a pitcher full of water into a small glazed goblet.

Water continues to pour into the goblet without overflowing.

Galen takes a sip.

The King makes no sign. Galen approaches stiffly, takes a

scarf and retreats.

And he's done it: he turns the goblet over and a small chunk

of ice hits the floor. The royal reaction is equally frosty.

Galen is bombing, and he knows it.

He mutters an incantation. In the audience, Tyrian notes

that Galen has his hand wrapped around the amulet. There is

a loud clatter as the heavy oak table before the throne begins

to jitter and buck. As the wine spills and plates go flying,

the King wearily raises a hand.

The table cracks in half and dumps a mess of fruit and

crockery at the onlookers' feet.

This handsome sentiment doesn't go over any better than his

tricks.

The King grimaces as the memories come flooding back.

DUNGEON

Two guards thrust Galen into a narrow cell and slam the barred

door shut. The young sorcerer waits until they're safely out

of sight, then takes out his amulet. He ponders it for a

doubtful moment. Suddenly a gloved hand darts in and whips

it off his neck and out through the bars.

He makes an ironic salute and leaves. Galen sits down heavily

and stares at the stone walls.

CORRIDOR

Unseen by Galen, a figure clad in silk and lace skitters

down a murky dungeon hallway and peers around a corner.

Stealing a look at Galen is the Princess Elspeth, a fey beauty

in her early twenties. After a moment, spooked by some

imagined noise, she flits away.

DRAGON COUNTRY - DAY

Dark clouds slide across a pale sun, throwing the ruined

land below into shadow. Soon fat droplets of rain are

splattering on the rocks above the dragon's lair. With each

tiny splash there is a sizzle and a puff of steam. These

rocks are hot!

DUNGEON

Outside the barred window, a steady rain is falling. Inside,

Galen uses a chunk of limestone to inscribe a pentagram on

the floor of his cell. He marks runic signs on the window

sill and lintel. Then, positioning himself in the center of

the mystic symbol, he raises his hands and spreads his

fingers.

There's a long moment when nothing happens. A very long

moment. Finally, a thoroughly frustrated Galen leaps to the

window and rattles the bars.

Startled, Galen whirls around to find Elspeth standing outside

his cell. She hands some food and blankets through the bars.

Galen looks her over. He's never seen anyone so angelic.

She slips away down the corridor.

LIBRARY

King Casiodorus and Tyrian are huddled over a table piled

high with manuscripts and papers. Tyrian clears a spot and

sets out a stack of lead bars.

The King picks up Galen's amulet, and holds it over the bars

in his clenched fist.

There is a rustle of skirts and Elspeth appears behind him.

The King and Tyrian glance up at her.

The lead remains unchanged, but the King gives out a cry and

drops the amulet.

Tyrian bows and exits. The King uses his sceptre to pick up

the amulet and chain. He conceals it in a hollowed-out book

and places the volume on a shelf among many others.

The King paces over to the window and stares out. The rain

has stopped.

Elspeth sways in dismay.

At that moment a tremor passes through the room. King and

daughter look at each other in alarm.

DUNGEON

The same tremor shakes the bars in Galen's cell. Puzzled, he

rolls off his straw palette and gets to his feet. The tremor

dies away. Suddenly a violent shaking hits the cell, bouncing

Galen off the walls.

VILLAGE SQUARE

Swanscombe is gripped by the same earthquake. Dodging panicky

barnyard animals, Valerian and her father join other

frightened villagers in the center of town.

DRAGON COUNTRY

Above the dragon's lair, boulders are shifting and grinding

together. Massive chunks of stone break loose and tumble

down the incline.

GALEN

The shaking has stopped. Rock dust filters down from the

ceiling. Galen picks himself up and stares: the door to his

cell is off its hinges and is sagging open. He darts out.

CORRIDOR

Galen dashes along the hallway, rounds a corner and stops.

At the other end of the passage is Tyrian.

He draws his sword and advances. Galen warily retreats. Tyrian

breaks into a run. Galen turns and sprints away.

COURTYARD

Unruly horses, terrified by the quake, rush blindly around

the courtyard. Hostlers try vainly to catch them. Tyrian

leans down from an upstairs window.

The men below scramble for the gates. Galen bursts out of

hiding, sees the untended horses, and swings aboard as one

goes past. A cry goes up from the guards.

Galen rides like mad for the exit, but he's a half-second

late: the doors boom shut in his face. He wheels the horse

around. The King's men are coming toward him with pikes.

Digging his heels into the horse's sides, he urges the animal

back across the courtyard, up the steps and right into the

building!

THRONE ROOM

Galen gallops into the empty chamber, knocking over the throne

and vaulting a table. Hot on his heels are armed soldiers.

He kicks the horse again and shoots under an archway.

KITCHEN

The kitchen is already in chaos from the earthquake when

Galen charges in on his wild steed. Food, utensils and cooks

go flying. He reins in, ducks his head, and squeezes the

horse out into a narrow hallway.

HALLWAY

He clatters down the passageway. But here comes a contingent

of footmen from the opposite direction. Galen rides them

into the walls!

STAIRS

The horse scrabbles up the stairs, Galen tucked low against

its neck. On the upper landing he comes face to face with

Tyrian and more soldiers.

Galen jerks the animal around and plunges back down the

stairs.

LIBRARY

Whinnying and blowing the horse bursts in, a wild-eyed Galen

still in the saddle. He finds himself confronting the King

and his daughter.

Casiodorus grabs Elspeth and retreats into a corner.

Tyrian sweeps in with his men. The doors slam shut.

Galen is trapped. Just as Tyrian reaches for the horse's

reins, the animal rears up, rolling its eyes. At that moment

the floor heaves and cracks in a new series of shocks. The

men at arms go down like ten pins. Tyrian reels back, dodging

stone blocks loosened from the ceiling. As the shaking

continues, a weakened section of wall gives way. Galen sees

daylight! Without even waiting for the quake to cease, he

prods the horse across the room and through the wall to

freedom.

DRAGON COUNTRY - DAY

The unnerved citizens of Swanscombe gather on the promontory

overlooking Galen's landslide. Every few seconds there is a

new shudder and more rocks pour down the long slope. Valerian

stands trembling with her father. Presently Brother Jacopus

elbows his way forward.

Holding a cross before him, he starts up the slope. No one

follows. They haven't been Christians all that long. One or

two near Valerian get down on their knees and pray silently.

Greil looks things over.

He strides after the monk. But he's the only one.

NEAR THE LAIR

The determined monk has arrived at the epicenter. His sandals

are smoking on the hot gravel. Sweat shines on his face and

neck.

Greil toils up the slope a hundred yards back. He's crossing

himself, but he's carrying a sickle.

VERMITHRAX

There is a thunderous noise. Part of the mountain is tossed

into the air. Up from the depths comes a huge shining wing.

Then a neck uncoils and a head appears. It tips down toward

the tiny human.

At the base of the slope the villagers scatter. Greil wavers.

The dragon's head sways back and forth, then belches out a

waterfall of flame. It engulfs Jacopus and sends him to a

better world, if there is one.

HILL ROAD - NIGHT

Horse and rider race across a night landscape under brooding

clouds. Up ahead, the sky glows with an angry red light. At

the crest of a hill Galen reins in and looks down across a

long valley. There, miles away, is the village of Swanscombe.

Many buildings are ablaze. As he watches in horror, fires

spring up in the fields and trees. Intermittently he can see

the silhouette of the dragon as it spreads destruction.

Finally the creature swoops up and away. Galen stares skyward,

losing sight of it in the clouds. For a moment, silence.

Then, with a thunderous rush of air that almost blows him

from the saddle, the dragon reappears and hurtles a few feet

over his head! It is gone in an instant.

VILLAGE - NIGHT

Half the buildings in the town are on fire. Desperate

villagers dash here and there, herding children and animals

to safety, trying to save their household goods. Galen walks

woodenly into the confusion, leading his horse, taking in

the scope of the disaster. He comes upon a line of men who

have formed a bucket brigade. He attempts to join up. As

soon as he is recognized, he is shouldered roughly aside.

Galen staggers back, reaching for his horse. The animal shies

and trots off. A middle-aged woman appears in front of him,

her face contorted with rage. She swings a flaming broom and

catches him on the back of the head. Galen reels away.

Galen looks up and sees a couple of burlies moving his way

with boards in their hands.

Before they can get too close, Galen runs down an alley and

bumps smack into a glassy-eyed, haunted man. It is Greil.

He pushes past. Galen ducks behind a smoldering building.

VALERIAN'S HOUSE

The roof has burned off, but at least the walls are standing.

Valerian is wrestling charred timbers out of the center of

the room. She is covered with soot. There is a hammering on

the door and Galen barges in. He slams the door behind him

and puts his back against it.

Galen's hand moves up to where the amulet used to hang.

For a moment, Valerian is too stunned to speak. Then her

face colors.

Galen sinks to the floor and sits in the ashes.

She snatches up a pitchfork and glowers at him.

But Galen still sits there like a puppet with its strings

cut, every dream of glory utterly crushed. This piteous sight

touches Valerian's heart. Her gaze softens. She slowly lowers

the pitchfork.

FADE IN:

TOWN SQUARE - DAY

A knot of villagers lead Tyrian and his henchmen across the

square directly to the blacksmith's shop. The King's men

dismount and pound on the door. It swings open. Valerian is

standing there.

A cry goes up from the villagers. They know damn well he's

in there.

VALERIAN'S HOUSE

Tyrian pushes Valerian aside and steps into the room. Aided

by some townfolk, his men proceed to ransack the premises,

overturning barrels, sticking their swords through flour

sacks, poking through the tumbledown thatch. Valerian's eye

falls on Malkin, who has involved himself in the search.

Finding nothing, the group pushes into the metal shop, where

Simon is hammering an iron wheel rim back into shape on an

enormous anvil. He lays down his tools and grimly watches

the men go through, overturning benches and tables. Tyrian

props a leg up on the anvil and addresses himself to Simon.

The search party has exhausted the room's hiding places.

Tyrian nods and leads the way out. Simon catches up and pulls

Tyrian aside at the door.

He spins on his heel and joins his men as they ride out of

town. Valerian and Simon watch them go. When the riders are

out of sight, they return to the shop. With a couple of stout

poles, they strain to lift the anvil off its base. Finally

it topples over. Valerian slides the base aside, revealing a

trap door. She raises it and a cramped Galen unfolds himself

from the space below. On his face is a curious look of

determination.

WEAPONS

Simon is going through a cabinet, tossing out hoes, rakes,

sickles, scythes, plow blades, and a knife or two. Galen

examines them doubtfully. Now Simon produces an armload of

swords. Galen is impressed; he looks them over carefully,

testing and rejecting them in turn.

Simon plucks up one of the swords, carries it to the center

of the room. He lays a horseshoe on the anvil. He brings the

sword down -- whack! -- and cuts the horseshoe in half.

Galen hefts it dubiously.

Valerian has been watching all this with growing concern.

Simon gnaws his lip. Reluctantly, he brings a long box from

the bottom of the cabinet. He opens it. Lying on a bed of

silk is an exquisite two-handed broadsword. The flat blade

gleams like a mirror. Galen reaches in and lifts it out.

Valerian is as awed as Galen.

Galen brings up a finger to test the edge. Simon grabs his

hand away.

She looks at him with affection. Leaning forward, she plants

a kiss on his bald pate.

STREAM - DAY

Galen, Valerian and Simon tramp through a glade to a mossy

bank. There a wide stream flows lazily under a canopy of

trees.

Galen walks out into the shallows and pushes the sword-tip

into the sandy bottom, angled so that the edge splits the

current.

He walks back to shore. All three watch the sword to see

what will happen.

SWORD

Big flat oak leaves are gliding along the current. Very

slowly, they go by the sword, some of them very close.

Finally, one of them floats against the leading edge of the

blade and without a ripple is cleft in two. Simon gives Galen

a significant look.

They look to Galen. The apprentice's face is full of doubt.

KING'S CASTLE - NIGHT

Carrying torches to light their way, families -- some with

maiden daughters -- gather from all over the country in the

courtyard of the King's castle. Simon is there with Valerian,

and so is Galen, disguised in rough farm clothes and a wide-

brimmed hat. Like many others, he carries a stick topped

with a bleached skull -- to all appearances, just another

participant in this weird pagan ritual. A barrel decorated

with flames and dragon's wings sits on a raised dais in front

of the main entrance. Horsrik, the King's herald, supervises

preparations for the lottery. Armed guards appear carrying a

sealed chest. Horsrik breaks the seal and the guards pour

the contents -- hundreds of wooden tiles, each bearing the

name of a potential sacrifice -- into the barrel. Trumpets

blare and drums roll and the royal party strolls onstage:

the King, his daughter, courtiers and Tyrian. Valerian nudges

Galen.

Valerian gives Galen a sharp look. Horsrik unrolls a

parchment.

Galen pulls his hat low over his eyes. As the moment for the

drawing approaches, Valerian becomes more and more uneasy.

She pushes forward through the crowd until she's just below

the barrel. She eyes the people around her. Some of them

seem equally worried, others -- the better dressed and better

fed -- are smug and complacent. The King and his retinue are

serene. A chant goes up from the crowd:

Horsrik picks up a wooden staff surmounted by a carved

dragon's head and stirs up the names. This done, a new chant

goes up:

At a signal, a guard comes forward and cuts the sleeve from

Horsrik's right arm. He holds it high. The crowd surges

forward. The atmosphere is full of dread and excitement.

Valerian looking pale and determined, is jostled and pushed

to the edge of the platform.

The moment has come. Down goes Horsrik's arm and up it comes,

holding one little wooden square, one young woman's fate. An

expectant hush falls over the mob. The virgins of Urland

tremble and wait.

He looks down at the tile to read the name, but no sound

comes to his lips. He looks back at the crowd, a cold sweat

breaking over his face. He swallows, but still can't bring

himself to speak. At his feet, Valerian is holding her breath.

A new chant goes up.

By now Horsrik is trembling. He stares down at the tile, his

mouth set in a grim line. The King is getting annoyed. He

gestures and the crowd falls silent.

There is a moment of profound shock. Then a low murmur of

wonder moves through the crowd. Galen looks at Valerian; she

sags with relief. The King turns to his daughter. She shows

nothing. He rises from his chair, comes forward and snatches

the tile from Horsrik.

Valerian will not stand for such hypocrisy.

He quickly tosses the wood chip into a brazier at his elbow.

Led by Valerian, the crowd cries out in protest.

He reaches into the barrel and extracts another tile. He

looks at it and his eyes widen. Betrayed, he swivels to face

his daughter. The din of the crowd reaches a crescendo.

Elspeth takes the tile from her father's nerveless fingers,

looks at it with satisfaction and holds it aloft.

The King moils through the tiles, finding his daughter's

name again and again.

Valerian, chanting with the rest, falls silent. She looks at

Elspeth with sudden interest and respect, then awe.

The crowd is dumbfounded. Gradually voices erupt in a

cacophony of shouts, whistles and excited conversation. Galen

sees his chance: there's an unguarded door near the stable.

He drifts toward it and slips inside.

THRONE ROOM

Galen pokes his head in: the room is empty. He scurries over

to a chest, flings it open and starts rummaging. Finding

nothing he moves on to a cabinet. He breaks the lock and

pries it open. Again, nothing.

CASTLE CORRIDOR

Galen can hear the voices in the courtyard as he rushes down

a hall. Suddenly he stops short. There in front of him is a

guard leaning out a window to watch the proceedings. Galen

hovers on the verge of panic as the guard abruptly moves.

But the man is only headed for another window and a better

view. Galen manages to fall into step an arm's length behind

him and slip by without a sound.

LIBRARY

Galen enters the library, his enormous shadow dancing crazily

on the torchlit walls. Hurrying through, his attention is

drawn to some open books on a table. Closer inspection reveals

magical writings and symbols. Galen paws over everything,

suddenly aware that he must be close to the amulet. But where

is it?

COURTYARD

As the crowd disperses Valerian watches Elspeth walk back in

the castle, lofty and composed. She looks for Galen and

discovers he has gone.

LIBRARY

By now, the room is in total disarray. Galen has opened all

the chests and trunks and knocked half the books from the

shelves. No amulet. He's feverishly working on a locked drawer

when a voice interrupts him.

Galen whirls around to find the King standing in the doorway.

The monarch looks shattered. Galen edges toward the split in

the wall and finds that it has been shored up with timbers.

At that moment Tyrian comes through the door, sizes up the

situation and draws his sword.

The King's voice is cracking. Galen and Tyrian are equally

taken aback. The King searches through the books remaining

on the library shelves.

The King finds the book and takes the amulet out. With

trembling hands, he passes it to Galen.

VILLAGE - DAY

The people of Swanscombe are clearing up the rubble and

beginning repairs on their dwellings. Standing in their midst,

lecturing every passerby, is Greil. He holds up the charred

remains of Brother Jacopus' wooden cross.

Some workmen go by lugging new thatch. Malkin is with them.

Malkin and the others stop to listen.

BLACKSMITH SHOP

Galen lurks in the shadows of Simon's metal shop looking out

on the square where Greil is holding forth.

Galen quietly shuts and bars the door. He moves deeper into

the gloomy workroom where Simon is pumping a bellows to heat

up the forge. Galen looks at the coals.

Valerian is staring at the sword, sitting on the anvil in

its silk wrapping. Galen uncovers it, holds it high, and

puts his hand on the amulet.

The sword starts to hum and to heat up. From the hilt outward

the blade glows brighter and brighter: red, orange, white.

It lights up the room, throwing long shadows into the corners.

Galen lays the white hot steel on the anvil. Simon takes up

his hammer and begins the reforging. Valerian sees their

resolve. After watching for several moments she slips out

the side door, looking sad.

DRAGON COUNTRY - DAY

Clouds scud low over the lifeless region. The dragon's lair

now has a newer, bigger entrance. Vapors drift upward from

it. Down the slope a lonely figure works its way from rock

to rock: it's Valerian with a wicker basket on her arm,

searching for dragon scales. The basket is already more than

half full when she finds herself ominously near the mouth of

the cavern. She's about to turn back when she spies a

particularly large and beautiful scale just a few yards

further on. As she reaches for it, there is a sudden hiss!

She jerks her hand back and freezes. There in the shadows is

a baby dragon, a basilisk, all coppery bronze with stubby

winglets. As she backs away, she sees two more come up to

join the first. They watch her retreat through wicked little

green eyes.

STREAM - DAY

On the mossy bank Galen and Simon unwrap the reforged sword.

Now the blade carries a faint blue halation. Galen walks to

the middle of the current and once again stabs the tip down

into the sand. Then he rejoins Simon onshore to await results.

This time, as the oak leaves approach the sharp edge, they

gently but definitely veer sideways to avoid contact. Such

is the power of the sword that even after many leaves, not a

single one has come close enough to be sliced. Simon is agog

and even Galen seems satisfied. They clasp hands.

Simon hands him a bundle of fighting equipment.

They look at each other for what could be the last time.

The old man departs. Galen unfolds the bundle and brings out

its contents: mail hauberk with coif, studded leather gloves,

padded jerkin, a scabbard and a small wooden shield. He lays

them out on the stream bank, then strips off his tunic and

kneels down to splash some water in his face. As the cups

the water between his hands, an image comes alive and shimmers

on the surface: Valerian, stripping off her own clothes,

shyly turning toward him, solemn and romantic.

It's as if the vision is speaking to him, but it's not. He

spins around and sees her standing there, fully clothed, and

possessed of a brisk and businesslike air.

She throws down a shield. It's remarkable in its construction --

overlapping layers of iridescent dragon scales have been

ingeniously fastened to a leather-clad frame.

Galen turns the shield over and over, marveling at it. He

fixes her with a piercing look.

She shudders. Galen's eyes are still fastened on her. She's

fighting to retain her hard manner, but the agitation and

dread are plain.

Valerian wants to be bold, but on this final point, can't

muster the courage.

Galen takes her in his arms; she is trembling. He tilts her

face up toward his and kisses her.

Their image is reflected in the waters. Through the ripples

she is visible pulling briefly away to remove her clothes.

From afar, they are two tiny figures under the overarching

oaks and willows. They embrace and sink down into the deep

grass beside the water. The leaves continue their unhurried

course downstream.

DRAGON COUNTRY - NIGHT

A cold wind whistles through the rocks near the dragon's

lair. By the light of a flickering torch two workmen finish

driving a heavy post into the ground. As they affix a pair

of iron manacles they see the torches of a procession coming

up the slope. They hurry down to meet it. Horsrik is in the

lead, followed by soldiers and royal attendants. Elspeth

rides in the tumbril behind a blindfolded horse. Bringing up

the rear is Tyrian. At last the cart can go no further.

Elspeth alights and leads the rest of the troop to the post.

As the soldiers put the irons around her wrists, Horsrik

unrolls a parchment, turns his back on the wind and begins

to read:

Horsrik blinks. There's a black stain growing in the middle

of the parchment; all at once it bursts into flames. He cries

out and flings the document away. There follows a flash of

light and a puff of smoke and Galen is standing there, as if

he had materialized out of thin air. Horsrik and his startled

men backpedal down the slope.

Galen raises his hands in a menacing gesture.

That's enough for Horsrik and company: he and the soldiers

depart.

Only one man remains behind the challenge the young sorcerer:

Tyrian. He draws his sword.

Galen draws his own sword. As it emerges into the night air

it seems imbued with a blue phosphorescence.

Elspeth twists around in her chains.

Galen starts to reply, but as soon as his attention wavers,

Tyrian is lunging toward him, sword point directed at his

neck. Galen barely manages to parry the thrust before Tyrian

is at him again, blade swinging toward his knees. Galen drops

the tip of his sword to catch the blow. When the two steel

edges connect, sparks fly. In a series of thrusts and counter-

thrusts, each accompanied by a shower of sparks, Tyrian backs

Galen up the mountain.

Sure enough, at that moment the earth gives out a low moan

and undulates in a sickening movement. Vapors begin rising

from the lair.

He might be right, for Galen turns and bolts across the slope.

When he reaches the post with Tyrian two steps behind, he

whirls and brings his blade down on Princess Elspeth's chains.

The chains part in an explosion of sparks.

The Princess darts from the piling as Tyrian swoops down to

continue the attack. Galen dodges and the stake catches

Tyrian's blow. The earth shakes again. Galen glances at the

Princess.

Elspeth is not running away down the mountain. Instead she

is walking, slowly and deliberately, right into the smoking

cave. Swoosh! Tyrian's sword comes down again. The dismayed

sorcerer ducks back and Tyrian's blade again bites deep into

the wood.

It's now or never. Elspeth is no longer in sight. Galen grits

his teeth, grasps the sword with two hands and swings it as

hard as he can in a wide arc. The blade never even slows

down as it sails right through the post, lopping it clean

off. The glowing sword flashes above Galen's head and eagerly

buries itself in Tyrian's chest. The King's man is as startled

by the amputated piling as he is by his own death. His eyes

roll up in his head, his knees buckle and he topples backward --

the blade sliding free.

DRAGON'S LAIR

Smoke swirls at the mouth of the cave as Galen enters, holding

his sword before him, lighting his way with its faint blue

glow.

The floor of the cave as it winds down into the mountain is

paved first with rock, then with dragon scales, then with

bones. With each footfall, clusters of mysterious insects

scuttle away. Galen pauses to mop his brow; it's getting

hot. A sound echoes up from the depths, a grinding sound

like the gnashing of teeth, followed by hissing and squealing.

Galen grips his sword tighter and pushes on. Suddenly he

stoops and picks up an embroidered slipper: Elspeth's. The

grinding sounds are louder. He hurries forward and rounds a

corner. He stops and gags.

BASILISKS

Two disgusting little reptiles -- like scaly raccoons -- are

perched on the corpse of Princess Elspeth Ulfilas, feeding

contentiously on choice bits of the royal flesh. Galen groans:

he lashes out and his sword beheads one of the tiny monsters.

The other one buzzes its half-formed winglets and hisses a

hot stream of air. Galen brings down the sword and slices it

in half. Eyes riveted on Elspeth's remains, he edges around

the carnage and backs away. Hissss! -- there's a third one,

lurking in the shadows, munching on something; it might be a

hand. Galen shrieks and jumps away. The little creature comes

at him and clamps its jaws on his leg. Galen stabs at it

repeatedly. Finally it lets go, and flails and flops across

the bloody floor, ululating its death agony. As the creature's

last mewlings echo down through the cavern, the ground

quivers. Bits of stone fall from the ceiling.

LAKE OF FIRE

Galen works his way down a narrow passage whose walls are

alive with insects and beads of sulphurous water. As before,

he holds the sword in front of him; he marvels at its

increasing brightness. The heat is increasing too; sweat

mats his hair and runs down his face. A few yards further on

the sword starts pulsating. Now the walls take on a flickering

rosy sheen and the passage widens into an underground vista

of staggering immensity: an underground lake, its surface

bubbling and torn with sheets of flame. Arching over it is a

vault of stone, penetrated here and there by natural chimneys.

The dimensions of this internal world are unknown -- the

fiery lake disappears into half a dozen side chambers. The

one clear path is accessible only by a series of flat stones

leading across the hot liquid. Galen grips his sword and

resolutely hops from rock to rock.

VERMITHRAX

He's halfway across when the earth rumbles and the stepping

stones teeter beneath his feet. A fiery wave washes over his

legs, leaving his boots smoking. Another tremor knocks Galen

to his knees. As he scrabbles to pick up his sword and shield,

the great head of Vermithrax rises up out of the depths on

its long neck. It gazes at him through huge pale eyes under

armored lids. A tongue flicks out and runs around its lipless

mouth. The head sways from side to side. The mouth hinges

open, the nostril-like igniters come on and touch off the

jet of gas squeezed up out of its innards. A roaring tube of

flame engulfs Galen. He crouches behind his dragon scale

shield which deflects the fire just enough to save his life.

The dragon pauses to take a breath. Galen springs to his

feet, and bounds back the way he came, his skin and clothing

singed. Flames lick at his back as the dragon lets fly with

a second burst.

TUNNEL

Coughing and weeping, Galen staggers up through the tunnel,

nearly tripping over the body of one of the baby dragons. A

few seconds later, Vermithrax follows, squirming and clawing

its way upward. When it reaches its dead offspring it surveys

the scene with expressionless eyes. Bringing its head low,

it sniffs and nudges at the lifeless little ones.

AMBUSH

At that moment Galen leaps out from behind a niche in the

tunnel wall and lunges forward. Striking sparks, the point

of his sword slides across the dragon's plated cheek and

stabs deep between the scales of its heavy neck. There is an

unearthly shriek and the creature flicks its head back and

upward. Galen goes sprawling and finds himself holding half

a sword. The rest is buried in the beast's neck, and

Vermithrax doesn't like it. It flings its head this way and

that, knocking rocks loose from the ceiling. Its movements

cause the ground to quake. As boulders tumble around him,

Galen drops to the floor under his shield. Dragon flame

reaches through the cascading debris and washes over him.

DAWN

Valerian roams the rock-strewn slope not far from the dragon's

lair. Presently she comes upon a once-familiar object -- the

fire shield. Half the scales are gone, the rest are charred

and curling. Grimly, she moves on. A few paces away she picks

up the blunted sword. She scans the rocks and finally sees

what she's looking for.

GALEN

He's lying face down behind a boulder, his clothes charred,

patches of skin scorched. He looks dead. Valerian rolls him

onto his back. She gasps: the eyes are open, regarding her.

BLACKSMITH SHOP - DAY

Simon is standing by the anvil with the broken sword in his

hand, lost in thought.

HOUSE

In the adjoining house Valerian tends Galen's wounds. He's

propped up on a palette enduring the application of poultices.

He winces in pain.

He seems miles away. She turns aside, on the verge of tears.

Simon is standing there, still holding the sword hilt.

Galen looks at him; he has heard everything. He sits up and

fondly regards Valerian.

PACKING

Valerian packs her belongings into a rucksack. The last item

in is her blue frock, carefully rolled. Beside her, Galen

dons clean traveling clothes. He stiffly crosses the room

and drags his pack out of the corner. He sorts through the

effects, and amidst the clothing and supplies discovers the

leather pouch containing Ulrich's remains. He contemplates

it.

He tucks the pouch away, throws some clothes on top and ties

the satchel shut.

STREAM - DAY

Beside the quiet stream Simon bids farewell to the young

couple, embracing each in turn. They slosh across the shallow

water and follow a path into the woods.

VILLAGE SQUARE - DAY

Greil is standing outside the half-burned grange hall,

summoning the Christian faithful. He proclaims the call to

worship by hammering on a small bell. One by one the townsfolk

arrive. Among them is Simon, looking bereft.

FOREST PATH - DAY

Valerian and Galen trudge along side by side.

This is small consolation, and Galen sighs.

She reaches out to take his hand. But Galen is no longer at

her side. She stops and looks back.

GALEN

Galen has come to a halt in the middle of the path. He's

staring into the middle distance with a sudden inspiration

bubbling in his brain. He flings off his sack, drops to his

knees and tears through the contents. Valerian comes back,

baffled. Galen's gear is strewn all over the trail.

Galen comes up with what he's looking for -- the leather

sack. When he replies, it is not to her, but to Ulrich:

He regards her with astonishment.

He heads back down the trail, leaving his belongings on the

road.

She hurries after him.

GRANGE HALL - DAY

Greil, a.k.a. Gregorious, stands in the center of the burned-

out granary, delivering a sermon. Behind him, men are filling

the baptismal cistern.

In the gathering Simon ponders the hilt of his once fabulous

sword. With its blade shortened, it looks a lot like a

crucifix.

DRAGON COUNTRY - DAY

Galen bounds up the rocky slope as fast as he can manage,

trailed by a desperate Valerian.

But Galen pays no attention. In a burst of speed and fury,

Valerian comes up behind and tackles him.

Galen waves the leather pouch in Valerian's face.

He jumps up and runs to the mouth of the lair.

She tackles him again.

But Valerian springs to her feet and starts into the lair.

Galen pauses long enough to snatch up a discarded torch near

the remains of the wooden stake, then charges after her.

UNDERGROUND

Running footsteps resound in the steamy passageway and Galen

comes around the corner holding his torch high to light the

way. Valerian stumbles after him. He grabs her hand.

Down and down they go. Soon they reach Elspeth's body.

But she pulls the torch from his hand and goes over to see.

He darts off. In the flickering torchlight Valerian can see

the Princess' remains all too clearly. She suppresses a

scream.

No answer. The torch reveals several passages. She doesn't

know which one to take.

LAKE OF FIRE

The passage widens out and once again Galen is standing on

the shores of the lake of fire. He looks around. The water

is rolling with bubbles of gas, and flames run hither and

yon across the surface, but there is no sign of the dragon.

Gathering his courage, he hops across the stepping stones to

the middle of the lake. There he hurriedly opens the pouch.

Gripping the amulet with his free hand, he scatters Ulrich's

ashes in a wide arc over the burning water. Instantly, there

is an ominous rumble and the earth gives a shrug. But no

wizard appears. No dragon, either. There follows another and

stronger quake. Galen crouches to keep his balance. Still no

wizard.

OUTSIDE

Thoroughly bewildered, Valerian stumbles out into daylight.

She wanders a few yards down the slope and collapses against

the stake. Something is strange: it's getting dark. Squinting

up at the sun, she frowns in puzzlement, then gapes at what

is happening.

ECLIPSE

Slowly and ponderously the black disk of the moon slides

over the face of the sun, plunging the world into crepuscular

half-light.

GRANGE HALL - DAY

The congregation is confused and frightened by the sudden

darkness.

The faithful bow their heads and join in. Simon as well.

LAKE OF FIRE

The earthquakes have subsided; the water is calm. Galen stares

bleakly into the flames. As he watches, they gather themselves

into a lazy spiral. Gradually the spiral speeds up and becomes

a vortex. Now the flames become tinged with green, and as

the cavern moans with the sound of rushing air, a form takes

shape at the crest of a jet of flame. It is Ulrich, supine

as upon his pyre, reforming before Galen's eyes.

He slowly raises himself into an upright posture and strides

through the flames.

The apprentice throws himself at his master's feet.

OUTSIDE

Valerian is standing in the unearthly twilight, anxiously

peering into the mouth of the lair. Suddenly she is hit from

behind by a gust of wind. She does not turn to see the

enormous Vermithrax alighting silently behind her.

GALEN & ULRICH

Ulrich raises Galen to his feet.

He hangs his head. Ulrich regards him steadily.

He leads the way across the rocks to the shore and into the

tunnel.

VALERIAN

Time seems to have come to a stop. Overhead, the moon is

locked in front of the sun. At the lair, Valerian stands

frozen as the dragon leans over her. The great head sways

from side to side. The jaws hinge open. Suddenly, Valerian

recovers herself and makes a run for it, leaping and

scrabbling over the rocks. A plume of flame licks at her

heels. She sees a protective crevice and heads for it, but a

winged claw drops to block her way. She changes direction

and is cut off again. Cat and mouse.

VERMITHRAX

The pale yellow eyes stare implacably down at the hopeless

victim. The igniter jets come on, then off, as the beast

suddenly stiffens. The head rotates, almost as if catching a

new scent. Finally the eyes focus on the entrance to the

cavern.

ULRICH

There is the sorcerer, leaning on Galen, coolly regarding

the creature. The old man's expression hardens.

The dragon lifts its wings as if to menace them, then flaps

twice and is airborne. The thing shoots overhead and, with a

rush of wind, flies off into the gloom.

IN THE ROCKS

Valerian struggles out of her hiding place.

Galen runs to her. They embrace. When they look up, Ulrich

is at their side.

Galen's hand locates the jewel under his shirt. He finds

himself reluctant to part with it.

With a hurricane howl, a column of flame touches down nearby

and rushes toward them. They stagger back as the dragon sweeps

past.

Galen hands his treasure over. Ulrich closes his hand around

it.

Galen and Valerian approach. The old man's hand is suffused

with an internal glow. Behind them, the dragon is turning

for another pass.

VORTEX

All at once the glow brightens, and in another instant the

world spins off into a blur, setting all three afloat in a

timeless netherworld. Valerian and Galen cling to each other

in terror.

The voices seem to be coming from a huge distance. Starlike

gleams whiz by, and fleeting glimpses of half-recognizable

faces and forms. The wizard's eyes are like glittering

crystals. Tiny motes and planetoids dance in the hairs of

his beard. He seems wreathed in luminescence.

He dangles the amulet in front of Galen. Even more reluctantly

than he let it go, he takes it back.

MOUNTAIN TOP

Abruptly, the vortex is gone and they find themselves atop a

rocky crag overlooking the eclipse-darkened fields and farms

of Urland. Galen glances at his surroundings and stares at

the amulet, full of awe.

GRANGE HALL - DAY

Greil is urging Simon, the last of the converts, into the

cistern.

He dips Simon's head under water.

In the background, half the congregation is staring through

the burned-out walls, fervently praying and crossing

themselves, wondering if they'll ever see the sun again. A

cry goes up: a shape crosses the solar corona, wheels over

the village and streaks away toward the mountains -- the

dragon.

MOUNTAIN TOP

Galen and Valerian peer out from behind a boulder and watch

Ulrich hobble perilously close to the edge of the cliff. The

old man spreads wide his arms and tilts his head back.

From over the horizon roiling inky-black clouds churn down

upon them. Thunder booms and echoes. A bitter wind whips

their clothing. As the storm gathers fury, the dragon

reappears, circling in the distance. Finally it homes in on

the mountain crag and dives at Ulrich. The conjurer makes a

gesture and strokes of lightning explode against the beast's

scaly flanks. It emits a high thin scream and rockets past.

GALEN & VALERIAN

Valerian crawls away and comes back with a hefty chunk of

granite.

ULRICH

He resolutely waits as the dragon banks against the clouds

and starts another pass. Again, the sorcerer summons lightning

bolts. But the dragon keeps coming; this time a talon splits

the old man's cape.

GALEN & VALERIAN

Valerian wrestles the amulet away from Galen. It falls to

the ground.

She lifts the chunk of stone. Galen grabs for it.

THE LAST ATTACK

Vermithrax spirals up into the storm, then drops earthward.

Ulrich watches as the beast comes straight at him. He folds

his arms and bows his head. Leathery wings humming, the

creature levels out, swoops up past the crag and lifts the

master magician away in its huge hind claw.

Galen and Valerian are horrified to see the dragon circling

upward with the sorcerer writhing in agony in its grip. As

the monstrous thing flies high over them, they can hear

Ulrich's faint screams.

DEATH

Now Galen understands. He seizes the granite block from

Valerian and raises it with both hands over his head. He

takes a final look at the amulet, glowing at his feet, then

brings the rock down with all his might. There is a blinding

flash as it shatters into a million fragments.

Far above there is another blinding flash as Ulrich's earthly

body explodes against the belly of the beast. The darkened

sky lights up as huge gouts of flame spew forth from the

dragon's gut. Wings fluttering uselessly, this reptilian

torch plummets to the ground.

LAKE

Below, a stock pond nestled in the foothill pastures. Trailing

a wake of flame, Vermithrax plunges like a comet into the

water. There is a stupendous splash and eruption of steam.

GALEN & VALERIAN

They stare down from their lofty perch, watching as further

explosions boil the water from the pond.

ECLIPSE

Behind a tattered wrack of cloud, the moon slowly uncovers a

pale sun.

THE CARCASS - DAY

Grey misty light reveals the beast's mangled remains. Galen

and Valerian emerge from the fog, walk under a blackened

wing and make their way through the mud and loose scales to

the huge charred head. The death agony has twisted it upside

down. The mouth is frozen in a grotesque look of surprise.

The eyes are glazed. Now the sound of voices floats toward

them, chanting an ancient hymn. A moment later a mob of

Christians, led by Greil, crests a hill and moves toward the

hulk. The song ends.

The members of the congregation fall to their knees.

Galen and Valerian look at each other. She takes his hand.

Galen turns and leads Valerian away. They disappear into the

mist.

FLENSING - DAY

In the clear light of a new day, ladders have been tipped up

against the creature's back. Teams of men swarm over the

crusted flesh, slicing off long strips for piecemeal burial.

Below, yoked oxen drag the heavy carrion away on sledges. In

the background other workmen dump the remains into an open

pit.

THE KING

With the crack of a whip and the clatter of hooves, the royal

coach pulls up to the shore of the lake. A door creaks open

and King Casiodorus totters out. His face is puffy, his eyes

are red. He slogs through the mud to the head of the dragon

and commences hacking at it with a ceremonial sword. Horsrik

steps out of the coach and draws himself up.

The workers pause long enough to listen to this pronouncement

and cast a glance at the sorry spectacle. Wordlessly they

resume their labors.

ON THE ROAD - DAY

The trail leads through copses and open meadows. Side by

side, Galen and Valerian march up a long slope under a hot

sun. He limps a bit; she finds a staff and hands it to him.

Galen falls a step behind. He briefly closes his eyes and

mutters something. They walk on a few paces. Then there is a

whinny from the nearby woods and a white stallion canters

forth. It crosses a meadow, comes right up to Valerian and

nuzzles her.

Galen climbs aboard. He reaches out to help her up.

She thinks for a moment, then lets him help her up. Galen

touches the horse's flanks with his heels and they ride off.

