Conor lies moaning on a cot.  Makeshift bandages wrap his

body, stained and pasted by thick, dried blood.

The family surrounds their dying son.

A PRIEST is delivering the last rites.

His sobbing mother holds a compress to Conor's forehead.

A Vassal rides up to the hutch, dismounts, and approaches a

CLANSMAN standing in the open doorway.

The Vassal peers inside at the priest administering the

sacraments.

There is a bustle of activity.  Setting up barricades, uni-

formed OFFICERS are trying to keep NEW CREWS and curious

ONLOOKERS at a distance.

DETECTIVE LT. MORAN

Lean, fortyish, and comfortable with the gore in front of him,

is inspecting the corpse with a MEDICAL EXAMINER.

Moran gestures to a sword, wrapped in plastic, lying nearby.

BRENNA CARTWRIGHT

Pretty but not beautiful, thirtyish, she exudes a sort of

insolent intelligence.

An OFFICER sees her duck under a police barricade.

She walks to where the medical examiner is organizing his

equipment.

The examiner turns and smiles.

Brenna looks to the now-sheeted corpse, blood flowing from

where the head should be.

Lt. Moran is standing near.

Brenna and the examiner walk the few yards from the corpse

to the sword.

The examiner stops and gestures to the weapon clothed in

forensic plastic.

Brenna's expression changes to interest as she kneels down

beside it.

RICHARD TAUPIN

Is being put in the rear of a patrol car.  Brenna studies his

face in the half-gloom.  There's something different about him.

A steadiness.

Richard Taupin is seated at a graffitti scrawled table in a

room otherwise bare of furnishings.  He seems unphased by his

surroundings.

The door opens and Moran enters with bag and notebook.  He

picks up Taupin's wallet on the table top and checks the

driver's license.

Taupin's face is stoic and controlled.

Moran paces to a corner of the room.

Moran places both hands on the table and leans across it.

Moran reaches into a bag on the table and removes a large

broad sword; old, but in mint condition.

Moran turns the sword over in his hand then sets it down.

He rises and opens the door.

Taupin passes through the doorway without comment.

Taupin out into the crisp night air.  His eyes search out the

darkness.

A medieval sun beats down on an OLD TRAVELER making his way up

the MacLeod home.  Conor's mother, scrubbing clothes in a

bucket, smiles in recognition.

Perched on a heather-carpeted rise above the village a young

woman, MARA, sits contemplating the intricaces of a daffodil.

Balancing on a shepard's staff, Conor limps over and puts

his lips to her ear.

Mara is silent.  Distant.

This is difficult for her.  Tears well in her eyes.

He puts a hand to her cheek.

She steps back.

Anger tumbles into exasperation.

He steps for her.  She moves away.  Conor's face hardens with

resentment.

Resigned, Conor turns and limps away.

Classy antiques.  Unusual.  Clocks, tables, chests.  Small and

personal.

Richard Taupin enters and sheds his overcoat.

Taupin is hardly in the mood.

Brenna Cartwright stands in Taupin's cluttered surroundings

admiring a bagpipe set neatly on a shelf.

Taupin sits down and begins sorting through a stack of papers

on his desk.

Brenna has taken a carving from the shelf.

Brenna suddenly tosses the carving at him.  Taupin snatches it

out of the air with lightning precision.

A lonely, ancient room full of equal parts dust and oaken

study tables.

The department SUPERVISOR sits at his desk surrounded by a

handful of his staff RESEARCHERS - Brenna included.  A faded,

stern portrait of some forgotten curator presides over propped

up feet, cold coffee, and half eaten sack lunches.

The men, LAUGH.  They delight in baiting her.

Researcher #2 opens a Budweiser and pours the beer into a medieval

mug he's borrowed from the collection.

Researcher #2 lifts the mug of beer to his mouth.

An empty mug is set on the counter of a medieval drinking

establishment.

CLANSMEN, their faces and clothes smudged with a day's work in

the fields, relax and enjoy the company of their fellow VILLAGERS.

No longer requiring the use of a cane, Conor enters.

The tavern goes silent.  Wary.  The attention is on Conor.

The owner unenthusiastically fills Conor a mug.  Conor takes

it and walks to where four other VILLAGERS sit.

Conor looks to the next table.

The entire tavern spells the same sentiments.

Silence.

Angered, Conor approaches the second man.  As he looms above

his chair the man in genuine fear pulls out a cross and thrusts

it forward.

The weird display frightens Conor.

Conor HURLES his mug against the wall.

His nerves shattered, he rushes out.

Conor packs a satchel with his few clothes and belongings.

He walks to the doorway where his mother and father wait.

His mother, tears on her cheek, hugs him tightly.

Conor turns to his father.

They clasp hands.

Without looking back he passes through the doorway and down the

empty path, his figure quickly fading in the moorish fog.

The NOISY business-as-usual confusion at the Washington P.D.

processing center.

Amongst the dinge of CLANGING phones and CLACKING typewriters,

a uniformed OFFICER enters something into a computer terminal.

Brenna sits perched on a desk nearby.

The computer returns a reply onto a printer.

Taupin steps out of a Metro station and walks the few blocks

to his brick townhouse.  Climbing the front stairs, he fishes

his keys out of a coat pocket.  About to insert the key he stops,

sensing something.

Backing down the steps, Taupin slips around to the rear of the

building.

Like a spider Taupin pries open a window and slips silently

inside.

The home is dark and still.

Taupin creeps down the hallway and peers into the entryway.

There a MAN, dressed in a tuxedo jacket and nearly imperceptible

in the dim light, is crouched at the front door.

He is holding a sword.

Taupin removes a knife from his pocket and JUMPS the intruder.

The two STRUGGLE fiercely.

Taupin pins the intruder against the carpet and shoves his

knife firmly against the man's throat.

Bulging eyes stare at him.

Taupin presses the blade.  A trickle of blood rolls down the

throat.

The knife is pressed deeper.

A city limit sign announcing the small community of Church

Hill is overtaken by Brenna's sedan.

Brenna looks through a telephone book.

Nothing.  She closes the book and drums her fingers on the cover.

An 1860s stone columned affair, far more impressive than the

low-lying town that surrounds it.

Brenna enters.

Brenna sits sifting through a large cloth-bound book entitled

_Certificates of Birth: 1941-1948_.

Dr. Kidell stands at his bookcase leafing through a binder.

He carries the binder to the table where Brenna sits.

Kidell sips his own and looks over the binder page.

Dr. Kidell removes from the binder a tattered newspaper clipping.

Something in the clipping sparks Brenna's interest.

A police line-up.

Seven MEN, all dressed in Santa Claus outfits with bare legs,

are paraded for a small, old LADY.

Several rows back in the dark sits Brenna's UNCLE JOE, the

district attorney, and another man, his ASSISTANT.

Brenna puts on her best little-girl angelic smile, a smile her

uncle can never refuse.

A swath of moonlight shines in across a carafe-turned-vase,

a New England college diploma, and a police uniform hanging

from the bedpost where Brenna lies with another man, DENNIS.

Dennis gets out of bed and begins putting on his uniform.

He buttons his shirt.  Something occurs to him.

Dennis puts on his police cap.

POLICE OFFICERS, their flashlights cutting the darkness, search

the mud shores of a Potomac tidal basin.  The glowing Jefferson

Memorial can be seen in the distance.

DETECTIVE MORAN

Is supervising.  An OFFICER climbs up the embankment to him.

The officer leads him down to the river where a headless BODY

wearing a tuxedo jacket is being put into a plastic bag.

Moran looks down at the body bag, its dark plastic reflecting

the rythmic rotation of squad car beacons.

A steeple-chase course lies shrouded in an Arlington fog.

Across the damp grass a lone horse, heaving clouds of warm

breath, leaps gracefully over a hurdle.  Driving the steed

hard through the course, Taupin pulls firm on the reins,

bringing horse and rider to a shuddering stop where Detective

Moran waits.

Taupin lifts his eyes to the suburban treeline.

Taupin climbs down from his horse.  Moran moves close.

In no hurry, Taupin leads his horse away.

Brenna sits surrounded by books of old English law, colorful

family banner plates, and a medieval caltrap sitting on her

desk corner.

Boring quickly, she shuts the book and sighs.  From another

folder she pulls out a computer sheet.

INSERT COMPUTER SHEET

The police sheet has Taupin's name and motor vehicle record.

Below are listed four WILLIAM TAUPINS, their hometowns and

driving records.  Richard Taupin's first driver permit was in

1967.

Brenna looks down the list to a WILLIAM TAUPIN of Felton,

Delaware, who stopped filling for driver permits in 1967, the

year Richard started.

Dropping a couple of quarters into a vending machine, Brenna

removes and opens up a map of the State of Delaware.

Brenna steps out of her car at a small town cemetary.

Holding a slip of paper, she weaves her way through the shade

covered tombs of revolutionary heroes and their descendants.

On a small rise fresh dirt lies in careless piles around an

open grave.

Richard Taupin stands at the mouth of the pit.

A coffin has been brutally pulled from the dirt and lies open

and propped diagonally beside a marker that reads: "WILLIAM

MICHAEL TAUPIN".

The casket is empty.

A flash of interest, quickly suppressed.

He starts for the gate.

Taupin stops.

He walks on.

After only a few paces Taupin suddenly shudders to an abrupt

stop.

He holds up an open palm to silence her.

The air is still.

Taupin's face is expressionless.  He listens intently.  Sensing.

An unseen voice rides seemingly on the wind.

Taupin whirls around to see a large man standing with broad

sword in hand.  We have never seen the knight out of his armor

before, but this man certainly seems to fit the bill.  Wearing

Levis and leather jacket in contrast to Taupin's expensive

business suit, he speaks with icy evenness from a face of stone.

Taupin, naked without his own sword, is trapped against a

marble wall.

The Knight is closing in on him, sword gripped in both hands.

The Knight throws Brenna a glance.

The Knight leans his whole body into a two-fisted swing,

clanging out a chunk of marble as Taupin ducks.

A second swipe also imbeds itself in stone.

A thrust cuts only air.

Taupin leaps behind a tree.  The Knight cuts it nearly in half.

Taupin drops to the ground in a shoulder roll to avoid a swipe.

Taupin grabs a tree branch and raps the Knight on the knee,

knocking him over.

The Knight quickly rights himself and cuts the branch from

Taupin.

He raises his blade.

An elderly WATCHMAN, shotgun cradled in his arms, stands in

the clearing.

The Knight pauses a split second then with decision launches

his sword spear-style firmly into the watchman's chest.

Taupin pushes past him to Brenna.

Brenna is frozen in shock.

Taupin shoves her roughly toward the gate.

The Knight retrieves his sword from the watchman's body and

lumbers after them.

Taupin and Brenna bolt from the cemetary and into the surround-

ing residential area.

Taupin leads an exhausted Brenna in a gallop down the side-

walk.

They have apparently lost the Knight.  Taupin pauses at a

corner.  He sees a church across the street.

Brenna enters and collapses into a pew, her labored breathing

echoing off the high ceiling.

Taupin walks the length of an aisle to see that they are alone.

Satisfied, he leans against a banister and considers his sit-

uation.

Trying to recover her wind, Brenna has her eyes closed and

head against the back of the pew.

Taupin stares out the window, stained glass shining orange on

his face.  He looks at Brenna briefly, then passes through the

Church's doorway without a word.

A glowing horseshoe HISSES wildly as it slips into a wooden

cooling bucket.  Pulling it out with iron tongs, Conor lays

it on a counter and pounds it even with a mallet.

Sweaty and streaked with dirt, he tosses the mallet aside

and walks out into the late afternoon sunshine.

Conor leans over a water barrel and dunks his head and arms,

cleaning off a day's worth of sweat and grime.

JUAN ROMIREZ

Stirring up dust with his travelling boots, this Spanish acc-

ented man stops at Conor's shop.  He wears a large broad sword

strapped to his waist.

Romirez is seated at a table.  His back to the Spaniard,

Conor is preparing some food.

Romirez is looking at the faint, pale hint of a scar that

runs from Conor's shoulder blade to his waist.

Conor looks up from his work in pained memory.

Something isn't right.

Conor turns and faces him.

Stunned with the implications of what Romirez has said, like

a robot Conor serves the meal.  His eyes never leave Romirez,

who digs hungrily into the food.

Romirez pulls back the sleeve on his cloak.

He traces some discoloration on his arm.

Romirez and Conor walk alone amongst torch-lit hutches.

Romirez chooses his words very carefully.

Stunned, Conor backs away from Romirez.

Romirez grasps Conor's shoulder.

This is all too much for Conor.

Romirez suddenly draws his sword and thrusts it into Conor's

heart.  The boy's mouth drops open in shocked terror as his

eyes roll up into his head.

A shudder, then Conor slides off the blade and crashes to the

ground.

Brenna stops her car in front of the Washington Police Depart-

ment.  Getting out of her car she climbs the stairs but stops.

After a moment of indecision she changes her mind and returns

to her car.

Brenna lowers herself wearily into a chair, rubs her eyes,

and stares absently out the window.

Reaching across to an end table, she plays back her answering

machine.

Beep.

Click.

Beep.

Brenna stands and goes to the kitchen, returning with a glass

of wine.

Click.

Beep.

She freezes in her tracks.

Brenna's eyes are glued on the machine.

Click.

Beep.

Brenna is still upset from the last call.

Click.

Hiss.

Conor starts CRYING.

Two days later.

Nearly healed, Conor and Romirez stand near a quietly moving

stream.

An old man, MR. NORTH, leads Taupin up the drive of a rural

farmhouse somewhere in the hinterland of Pennsylvania.

Furniture clad in white sheets.  Dust everywhere.

Taupin drags a finger across a dusty window pane.

Coupled strangers gyrate under colored lights and recorded music.

Brenna sits alone.  Whatever nervousness she brought through the

door with her has been turned into a comfortable cynicism by

the three empty glasses in front of her.

A MAN

With something less than perfect coordination, sits down beside

her.

Brenna drains her glass and sets it down with a sigh.

A small neighborhood tavern.  Regulars chat amicably with the

BARTENDER-OWNER.

TAUPIN

Sits alone at a corner table.  A WAITRESS hovers over him.

LATER

Taupin's lager is drained.  Lost in thought, he drags a finger

around and around the lip of the mug.

He hand stops.  It twitches.  Shakes.

Taupin pulls his hand from the glass and watches it shake slightly

out of control.  A warning.

He WHIRLS around suddenly to see LING KAHN, Asian, standing

over him.

Taupin is anxious, poised for attack.

Kahn breaks into a broad smile.

Kahn takes his place across the table.

Taupin looks to his own glass.

Taupin tenses.

The waitress sets down two glasses.

Kahn drains his glass.

Kahn and Taupin sit drunkedly on the marble steps of a closed

government building.

They LAUGH.

A JOGGER stops on the gravel and listens to the strange conversation.

The jogger shakes his head and runs on.

A CLINKING of chain link as Taupin and Kahn climb a fence and

tumble into the Washington Zoo.

Kahn chucks an empty wine bottle.  An unspecified animal GROWLS

sleepily somewhere in the darkness.

Taupin and Kahn stumble through an open-air display of Asian

animals.  Their VOICES seem to echo everywhere.

Kahn leans on the wall of a water buffalo pen.

Kahn jams his hands into his overcoat and starts down the footpath.

Late.  The bar is nearly empty.

No sign of the Knight.  Brenna looks at her watch, sighs, and

drops a bill onto the counter.

Brenna has left the bar and is now walking down a dimly lit

street.

She hears something and turns.

-Nothing.  A breeze rustles the trees above.

After only a few more paces she hears something again.

Brenna abruptly turns.

-Right into the face of THE KNIGHT.

Brenna SCREAMS.  The Knight reaches into his leather carrying bag.

A GROUP OF NOISY TEENAGERS

Exit a facing townhouse.  The Knight removes his hand from the

bag as they spill onto the sidewalk LAUGHING and YELLING.

Brenna moves close to the group as they walk to the corner.

The Knight follows at a measured distance.

At the corner the teenagers climb into a pickup and drive off.

Brenna bolts into the intersection.  Weaving through SCREECHING

brakes, she disappears into a pair of lighted glass doors.

40 well dressed PATRONS, numbered cards pinned to their lapels,

sit in velvetly plush surroundings.  At the front of the room

stands a thin moustached art AUCTIONEER.

Brenna BUSTLES in from outside.

The Knight BURSTS in with his leather carrying bag.  Brenna

slides along the draped back wall to avoid him.

The Knight closes in on Brenna casually, without hurry.

Brenna raises her arm to attract the attention of a SECURITY

GUARD..

The guard notices she has no lapel number and starts for her

very officially.

Being closed in on from both sides, Brenna suddenly runs across

the room to a fire exit, setting off an ALARM as she flies open

the door.

The Knight leaps after her, knocking over an OLD WOMAN in the

front row.

Brenna runs the sidewalk and disappears into a Metro station.

Brenna runs down the platform and jumps into a subway car

just as the doors shut.

THE KNIGHT

is also now on the platform but can only watch Brenna through

a window as the train pulls away.

Brenna KNOCKS at the front door.  No answer.

She KNOCKS harder.  The unlatched door pushes open.

Brenna stands in the doorway.

Before her is a disaster.  Furniture has been smashed like

matchsticks.  A desk drawer's contents lie strewn in piles on

the floor.

Brenna enters slowly.

Nothing has been left unturned or unbroken.

Brenna kneels and sifts through a pile of crumpled papers.

She comes across an old black and white photograph.  Badly

streaked and faded, it shows Taupin standing beside a farm-

house.  Written in the corner is "Worstick, 1928".

Brenna slips the photo into her pocket.  Standing, she turns

smack into Taupin.

He looks past her to the destruction of his living room.  It

doesn't seem to surprise him.

Taupin sifts through the debris, selecting articles from it.

He ignores the question.

He walks to the doorway.

Taupin stops, his back to her.

Taupin walks out the door.

On a clear rise above the village Romirez and Conor spar with

swords covered in heavy cloth.  Conor is having difficulty.

Conor thrusts.  Romirez blocks.

Conor strikes.  Romirez easily blocks.

Ticked off, Conor leans himself into a two-fisted swing.

Romirez knocks it aside, but Conor recovers faster than he,

knocking Romirez flat on his back.

Conor drops the sword and wipes the sweat from his face.

Romirez pours wine from a leather bag into a goblet pulled

from his belt.  He offers it to Conor.

Conor accepts the cup.  Romirez pulls himself to his feet.

Romirez puts his arm around Conor and refills his cup.

Romirez put his arm around Conor and leads him away.

A friendly horse race.  Their reflections bouncing off a clear

glen, Conor and Romirez dodge moss-laiden ruts and leap fallen

tree trunks.

Beaming, Conor pushes through a last turn and stops to wait

for Romirez, several lengths behind.

Both their eyes turn to the beauty in view.  Romirez pulls a

leaf from a tree and studies it closely.

He pulls the leaf's points from the stalk, one by one.

A VILLAGER approaches from across the pasture.

Conor looks to Romirez.

Conor sets off across the pasture.

Romirez enters and flops onto a cot.

Settling down for a nap, he sets his sword beneath the bed

and closes his eyes to the distant sound of CHILDREN playing.

The room is still.

Romirez begins to drowse.

Suddenly his eyes leap open with full alertness.

His hand moves under the cot.

With an EXPLOSION the front door is lifted from its hinges

and splintered into fragments.  Passing through a cloud of

sawdust enters the Knight.  Without pause he topples a kitchen

shelf onto a supine Romirez.

Romirez is struggling under the debris.

The Knight thrusts hard onto an exposed leg.

The limb is severed.

The Knight begins casting aside the shelving.

With lightning speed Romirez pulls the sword from beneath the

bed and hammers it deep into the Knight's side.

He crashes back against the wall.

Romirez tries to lift himself from the bed using his sword

as a crutch.

The Knight has regained a meager balance on his knees.

Blood pours from the slice in his stomach,

Romirez pushes himself across the bed, plants his sword into

the floor and hobbles a few paces before collapsing.

The Knight crawls across the bed and drops to his knees

beside Romirez.

The Knight's trembling hands raise his shaking sword high.

Conor pounds at a horseshoe.

The hammer slips from his grasp as he slumps forward as if

pushed.

Badly wounded, the Knight staggers through the shattered

doorway and tumbles into the street.

A CHILD SCREAMS.

Pulling himself up, the Knight hobbles away.

Conor is running through the village.

Conor rushes in and shudders to a stop.

An entire wall is showered with blood.

Conor walks slowly forward.  Dazed.

As he looks down something takes his attention.

It is Romirez's severed head.

Conor moans in anguish and drops to his knees on the blood-

stained floor.

His head sinks to his chest as he begins sobbing.

Somewhere in the bowels of the museum, the RESEARCH

LIBRARIAN, a wiry young man, sits at his cluttered desk.

Brenna looms above him.

The librarian looks her over skeptically.

The librarian reluctantly reaches for his keys.

Holding Brenna's photograph, the research librarian is comb-

ing through stained binders.  The room is old, disorganized,

and gives the impression that every fact worth knowing must

be in it somewhere.

The librarian pulls a binder and opens it.

Brenna enters and sits at her desk.  She is looking for

something.

Chris is seated at the desk next to her.  He points at the

supervisor's door.

The high backed office chair is spun away from an angry,

entering Brenna.

The chair turns.  Detective Moran, not her supervisor, leafs

through her notebook.

Brenna lifts the telephone receiver.

Moran presses the post on the phone.

Brenna reaches across and lifts her notebook.

Moran watches her leave.  He lifts the telephone receiver.

RESEARCH OFFICE

Striding out into the corridor, Brenna passes Dennis, the cop

from her bedroom, leaning against the doorway.

A PRIEST celebrates mass in a present-day cathedral.

In the rear of the church apart from the other PARISHIONERS

sits the Knight.  As the priest leads the parishioners through

the procession of faith, the Knight alone repeats it quietly

to himself in Latin, the ancient language of the church.

Crooked tombstones strewn across the bleached ground of a place

not beloning to reality.

In full medieval tartan, Conor stands against a forceful wind.

CRACKS

Run the length plain, spewing forth steam and staggering

SKELETONS.  There are dozens of them, all carrying their skulls

under one arm.

The skeletons press forward and trap Conor against the trunk

of a dead oak.  The heads break into harsh, demonic LAUGHTER.

Conor puts his hands over his ears in pain as the bodies push

forward.

SCREAMING, he disappears under a mass of gleaming bones.

Taupin wakes from the dream with a SHOUT.

He has fallen asleep in a desk chair.

Taupin walks to a window and looks out to the green hills.  To

the distance.

Brenna's sedan shoots down a country highway.

Checking her rear view mirror, Brenna notices two suspicious

FIGURES in a car behind her.

Brenna pulls to the side.  The car from behind passes without

incident.

Brenna is driving again.  Listening now to the RADIO, she

casts a glance in the mirror.  The same car is behind her.

Passing over a rise in the highway, Brenna turns abruptly

onto a service road and behind a group of trees.

THE OTHER CAR

Pauses a moment at the intersection, then drives on.

Brenna shows the PROPRIETOR the photograph.  He explains

something to her.

Brenna steps outside the store onto the Main Street of the

very small community of Worstick.

AT A STREET CORNER

Brenna passes a small monument settled in a flower bed.  It has

a plaque memorializing five locals murdered in 1931.

A mile out of town Brenna stops at a farmhouse.  She checks

it against the photo she found at Taupin's townhouse.  They

match.

Brenna KNOCKS.

Brenna whirls around and sees Taupin behind her.

He looks to the road.

Pause.  Taupin strides through the doorway.

Brenna and Taupin enter.  A heavy broad sword sits on the

coffee table.

Beat.  They're stuck with each other.

The room is a strange decor.  18th century paintings hang

beside grotesque medieval carvings.

Brenna's face softens with worry.  What is she doing?

A plain-clothed POLICE OFFICER is in mid conversation.

He hangs up.

Taupin sits at his desk.  Before him is spread out blank birth

certificates, driver licenses and title deeds.  His eyes lift

to the corridor where Brenna is.  An idea has come to him.

Brenna enters.

Brenna walks to the window.

Brenna is unsure.

Detective Moran looks through the broken remains of the living

room.

An INSPECTOR enters.

Moran sighs and tosses a piece of wood on the pile of debris.

Moran rises and dons his coat.

Moran walks to the door.

Conor, now MAJOR DUPONT of the French infantry, pours over

battle plans.

An AIDE, dressed as Conor-Dupont in 18th century European

military garb, enters the command area.

A GENERAL stands beside the major.

A regiment of INFANTRYMEN, pale blue coat tails tossing in

the light breeze, stand at attention.

A STAFF SARGEANT presents the men to Dupont.

Dupont walks past the sargeant to the line.

Dupont continues down the line.  Another soldier's infantry

jacket is almost hilariously mis-buttoned, one collar sticking

up four inches higher than the other.

Dupont with both hands rips open the soldier's coat, spraying

brass buttons onto the ground.

He moves on.

The soldier hedges.

Dupont's face softens in exasperation, then toughens.

The soldier obeys.  Dupont inspects the firing mechanism.

He throws the rifle roughly back into the soldier's hands.

The sargeant leaps to attention.

Dupont turns briskly, then stops abruptly as if alerted by some-

thing.  He whirls around and faces the young infantrymen.

His expression is quizzical as he walks the line, checking

each face carefully.

One PRIVATE seizes his attention.  The private is cautious.

It is as if Dupont knows him.  The two stare at each other.

Dupont turns and leaves.

Inside a small farmhouse commandeered for officer's quarters,

Dupont (Conor) and several others eat their evening meal.

A CAPTAIN finishes his story.

The OFFICERS LAUGH.  All but Dupont.

Dupont pokes unenthusiastically at his plate.

Dupont goes to the window.  Dusk shines orange on his face.

In the foreground the man Dupont encountered at the line-up,

Mulet, is chopping firewood.

Several hours later.

Most are asleep.  Mulet continues his wood splitting.

From out of the dark cottage steps Dupont.

Mulet returns to his chore.

Mulet LAUGHS.

Mulet turns to his chore.  Dupont grabs his arm.

Mulet turns his back on Dupont.

Dupont draws his cutlass.

Mulet turns slowly, axe in hand.

The two stare into eyes empty of emotion.

Mulet's hand flinches.  An attack?

Dupont CUTS quickly, slicing open both of Mulet's arms.

The axe drops to the ground.

Mulet seems strangely calm.

Dupont cuts off Mulet's head where he stands.

Dupont drags the corpse across the meadow and dumps it into

a swamp.

It is very late.  Only a few OFFICERS are seated in the pews.

Dupont tries to concentrate on prayer, but is distracted.

Dupont sighs and looks to the altar.

Dupont whirls around to see the Knight, dressed as he in uniform,

sitting one row behind.

Dupont leaps to his feet.

Dupont eases his breathing.

Dupont has backed up a few paces.

Dupont sits down.

The Knight almost seems proud of Dupont.

The Knight looks to the altar.

The Knight leans forward and puts his face very near.

The Knight moves into the aisle.

He exits.

Conor sits in the dim church alone.  Very alone.

Richard Taupin sits against the stone of an old Catholic church.

Taupin sighs.  A long, weary sigh.

Taupin and Brenna sit at a table working on forms.

Taupin looks up from his work and studies Brenna's face without

malice.

Brenna and Taupin are taking a walk along the township's

outskirts.

Crossing a small bridge over a smaller creek, they encounter

the elderly caretaker Mr. North and his eight year old GRANDSON.

Both with fishing poles.

The grandson is having difficulty baiting his line.  Taupin bends

down beside the young fisherman.

Taupin's show of affection surprises Brenna.

Taupin takes a clump of leaves from the bridge and winds them

around the hook.

Brenna is touched.

Brenna lies on her bed thinking.  She puts on a robe and walks

into the living room.

LIVING ROOM

Taupin sits before the fireplace, its flames reflecting on his

brandy glass.  Brenna moves quietly to a seat beside him.

Brenna looks through a property zoning book.

Walking past small town stores, Brenna allows herself a moment

to window shop.

IN A SHOP WINDOW

Is a small poster advertising a community get-together.  Brenna

peels it off the glass and slips it into her notebook.

Brenna and Taupin go over various forms and documents.

Brenna is silent.

Pause.

She hands him the poster from earlier.

Taupin stacks the documents into a folder.

The Knight throws Brenna roughly against a wall.

The Knight holds his sword out at a ceremonial angle.  Taupin

does the same.  The weapons are CLANKED together twice, then

pulled back into battle position.

The two begin walking a circle, poised swords waiting for an

opening.

The Knight leaps first, his clash of steel RINGING off the high

walls.

Another ATTACK without result.

Taupin swings.  The Knight jumps back.  Sweat gleams from their

brows.

Two LOVERS enjoy a late night walk along the tidal basin.

There is a distant CLANKING of metal.

He jumps up on a rock.  Several yards away can be seen two figures

attacking each other.

Standing at a map of the city, Moran nurses a cup of coffee.

The phone RINGS.

The Knight and Taupin are PANTING heavily.

The Knight goes low.  Taupin blocks.  The Knight comes overhead

quickly.  Taupin misjudges and the blade slices deep into his

shoulder and chest.  The impact knocks him flat on his back.

The Knight looks down on his wounded prey.

A SCREECH of brakes from outside the monument.  Two OFFICERS

are coming up the steps.

The officers reach the top and enter.

INSIDE

One of the officers is Dennis, who sees only a CRYING Brenna

and Taupin lying wounded on the floor.

The Knight rushes up from behind, his sword in full swing.

Moran's car blows through a cross street.

Moran is at the wheel.

The Knight walks from the two officers spread out like rag

dolls on the floor.

Taupin looks at Brenna and the dead policemen.  A resignation

sweeps over him.

The Knight looks to Brenna.

Taupin struggles to his feet.  Blood pouring from his shirt, he

stands uneasily with his sword at ready.

The Knight swings.  Taupin blocks.

Moran drives up.  There is an empty police car, the door still

ajar.

Taupin is badly outclassed.

He feebly fends off an attack, but the Knight returns quickly

with a savage SLICE that rips open Taupin's stomach and throws

him again to the floor.

The voice is THUNDERING.

Taupin kneels with his forehead pressed against the floor.  His

teeth grind in pain.

The Knight smiles.

MORAN

Stands in the entryway.  The Knight sees him.

Moran draws his pistol.

The Knight walks toward him,

Moran levels his gun.

The Knight raises his sword.

Two EXPLOSIONS as Moran FIRES.  The slugs slam into the Knight,

blowing him off his feet.

He lies still.

Moran looks to Brenna.  To Taupin.  Then he walks closer to the

Knight.

Taupin curls in a spasm of pain.

Moran moves closer.

The Knight lies face down, blood oozing from exit wounds over

his heart.  He isn't breathing.

Moran bends over slowly to see the Knight's face.

The Knight suddenly rolls over and plants his sword into Moran's

chest.  The pistol DISCHARGES against a far wall.

Taupin crawls for the Knight.

Moran's mouth opens but no sound escapes.  The Knight, blood

pouring from his mouth and nose, thrusts deeper then retracts

quickly.

Moran slides off the sword dead.

Taupin CUTS hard against the Knight's chest.  The Knight GAGS

in surprise and crumples.  Taupin CUTS again, then puts the

blade against the Knight's GURGLING throat.

He raises the sword.

And CUTS the Knight's head off.

Taupin drops his sword.

His breathing quickens.

A sensation sweeps over him.

Taupin drops to the floor WHIMPERING.  He sucks in painful gulps

of air.

Taupin bolts up and looks at her without seeing.

Taupin is looking past her.

A blood-stained hand suddenly GRABS Brenna's shoulder.  She

SCREAMS.  The headless body of the Knight stands beside her.

THE KNIGHT'S HEAD

Lies on the floor.

The eyes open.  The face pulls into a smile.

The eyes roll up into the skull.  The face slackens.

The hulking mass standing beside Brenna sways, the collapses

to the ground.

TAUPIN

Is CRYING.  Not from wounds he no longer feels, but from something

else.

Brenna kneels beside him.

Brenna SOBS.

Taupin doubles over in pain.  The pain of the whole world trying

to force itself into him.

Brenna tries to hold him.  He pushes her savagely away.

He doubles over in pain.

He grabs his sword and threatens her.

SOBBING, Brenna runs from the memorial.  Taupin is alone.

Bleeding.  Crying.  In agony.

FADE OUT

FADE UP:

Brenna at work in the research area.  She's silent.  Distant.

Something is missing from her.

Brenna stands in the street before Taupin's townhouse.

A boarded up window.  A for-sale sign.  Taupin is gone forever.

As if he never was.

A desk.  A single light.  A cup of coffee.

A typewriter.

Brenna tries to force thoughts to the surface.  CLACK-CLACK.

It is at last her journal article.  She types a line, then rips

it from the carriage and tears it to pieces.

The thoughts won't come.

Brenna sits on the expanse of grass throwing scraps to a group

of wild park cats.

A shadow covers her face.  She looks up.

It is Taupin.

Something has changed him.  His face is less cynical.  More

vulnerable.  More human.

He sits down on the grass beside her.

The cat's eyes are all fixed in Taupin.  They cautiously shrink

away, frightened.

Taupin holds a blade of grass as if it was speaking to him.

Brenna's chin quivers.

He holds her.  They hold each other.

A jogger runs by, unaware of any life but his own.

FADE OUT

_END_

