A Silver Pictures/Flying Heart Films      June 14, 1990

NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS

AND SOME "SCENE OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR

THIS SOFT COPY.

FADE IN:

EXT. VINCI COUNTRYSIDE - RENAISSANCE - DAY

Beneath a jawdroppingly storybook castle, a small

Renaissance Fair with florid awnings, demented ACROBATS

and roaring puppets is unfolding.

RUSTIC FARMERS and their families rumble with enjoyment

at the Sabbath afternoon entertainment.

Encircled by children, A JUGGLER WITH AN UNFORGETTABLY

ETCHED FACE elegantly plucks the red balls from a pouch

on his mule.  As he begins to juggle, a LOUD EXPLOSION

is heard, causing him to ungracefully drop his balls

and collapse in a heap.

Everyone at the fair, including the puppets, looks up.

The juggler shakes his fist up to a swish pan that swings

up toward a smoking window of the awesome castle...

INT. ROOM OF THE GOLD MACHINE

where the charismatic LEONARDO DA VINCI laughs down at

him.  Da Vinci wears a pair of very early, very cool sun-

glasses with his trademark beard.

He turns and loses his smile, something extraordinary

reflecting off his glasses.  Removing his shades, Da

Vinci moves to the Something, a gloriously incredible

machine.  The opening CREDITS REVEAL its dazzling idio-

syncrasies.

TWO COUGHING APPRENTICES haplessly try to disperse smoke

from the still billowing, mysteriously spectacular

Machine.  Mirrors attached to parts of it reflect beams

of light which cut through the smoke like a Renaissance

laser show.

The apprentice throws a lever.  A shunt near the furnace

turns.  Steam escapes upwards.  The machine immediately

slows down.  Da Vinci oh-so-gently coughs and moves for-

ward with tongs.

A LITTLE TROUGH - IN THE MACHINE'S INNARDS

comes to a trembling, mystical halt.  Right behind this

trough is a CONPLEX POLYHEDRON CRYSTAL as intricately

modulated as any Rubik stocking stuffer, but much more

dazzling in beauty.  It gleams like a jewel in the yellow

glow which pours from a PLEASANTLY GRINNING DEMONHEAD into

a trough--a glow of heat--and something more than heat.

The tongs enter the frame.

Da Vinci brings the object closer to his face.  A murmur

goes up from the awestruck apprentices as the Master

peers at the smoking yellow bar.

Da Vinci's pride goes dead as the implications hit.

The apprentices scurry out.  Mind reeling, Da Vinci turns

his back to the viewer, before a wall of frescoes.

Spinning back around, using the edge of his cloak, Da

Vinci pulls out the large gleaming crystal with a pop.

INT. DA VINCI'S WORKSHOP

With an accompanying blast of smoke, Da Vinci bursts

through some double doors into his workshop, sadly

reflecting upon the crystal in one hand and the tonged

bar in the other.

His workshop is a spendiferously enigmatic blend of

laboratory and studio; On a table in the foreground is

a fresh clay equestrian statue; a large VOLUME of

sketches, the inkwell nearby; a MODEL of what looks like

a HELICOPTER; Da Vinci flings the tonged bar on the table

among these goodies.

Pocketing the crystal, Da Vinci meanders through his work-

shop casually tinkering with various experiments.  He

snaps his fingers at a BATHING SUITED APPRENTICE, wearing

a diving helmet prototype.  The Apprentice jumps into a

pool of water.

Leonardo next stops at an easel displaying a finished-

except-for-the-mouth portrait of Mona Lisa, who happens

to be seated in a stool before the easel.  She broadly

smiles, revealing the worst dental work of her epoch.

Da Vinci shakes his head and moves out onto a

EXT. CASTLE TERRACE

A FLYING APPRENTICE sails past Leonardo in a bat winged

glider, enthusiastically shouting.  Da Vinci grins back

until he touches his pocket.  He pulls out the crystal

and, after a beat, angrily twists it apart into two

separate, geometric pieces revealing a small intricate

mirror.  He quickly folds the surprisingly shapable

geometric pieces.

Calming down, Da Vinci looks from the three components of

the crystal to each of the three unfinished works on the

table in his workshop.  He ponders then looks back out to

the Vinci vista.

The bat winged glider DISSOLVES into:

A HAWK

who is revealed to be flying over Sing Sing prison.

INT. A SING SING PRISON CELL

The shadow of the hawk passes through a cell window, over

the face of EDDIE HUDSON HAWKINS causing him to break out

of an eye-closed trance.

Before the viewer can get a good look at him, Hudson

Hawk turns to an oddball version of the "Mona Lisa" that

has his face and tears it off the cell back-wall.

INT. PRISON BLOCK WALKWAY

TWO PRISON GUARDS, One WISE and BLACK, the other YOUNG

and GREEN march down a cell block.  The Former is smoking

a pipe which the Young Guard lights with a lighter.

INT. PRISON CELL WALL

A hand tears down a picture of a happy Hudson Hawk and

a LITTLE MONKEY, identically dressed in black cat

burglar gear.

THE BLOCK

The Wise Guard and the Young Guard rumble forward.

The Guards approach Hawk's cell.  Hawk, with his back

turned, hefts on a nifty blazer.

The Wise Guard chuckles as the Young Guard fumbles with

his key-ring.

Hawk's hand reaches through the bars and grabs a pipe

cleaner from the Wise Guard's pocket.  Then the lighter

from the Young Guard's pocket--BURNS OFF the fabric fuzz

with the lighter beside it--bends the now blackened

wire--and with a quick turn of the wrist uses it to

UNLOCK the door.

He stops, dumbfounded, as the door clunks open.  The

Guards double-take as Hawk, finally in full view, struts

past them, down the hall.  The Guards hustle to catch

up.  The wise guard puts his finger in the air and

sarcastically pretends to be stung by the heat emanating

from Hawk.

Hawk and the Wise Guard hit fists, half-smiling.  Hawk

unfolds the painting.

The trio comes to the final checkpoint.  Hawk takes a

deep breath.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE PRISON--DAY

Hawk strides to the Massive Sliding Concrete Door/Wall

between him and freedom.  As music crescendos and

Hawk glows his first smile, the door opens to reveal two

Mafioso brothers, CESAR and ANTONY MARIO, the latter

sitting upon the hood of a tinted window Lincoln

Continental.  Cesar is of cool, hair-slicked-back

attitude, his scumbag brother is not.

Smouldering, Hawk struts off.  Cesar takes a black

canvas bag from a SCARFACED DRIVER and hustles up to

Hawk.  The Lincoln rumbles behind them, Antony riding

on the hood.

The car squeals to a stop.  Antony bounds off.  Cesar

shove-throws the canvas bag into Hawk's unwilling

hands.

Hawk fiercely push-shoves the canvas bag back into

Cesar's hands.

Antony opens the back door of the Lincoln and says

"Baseball."  He is handed a baseball bat.  Hawk backs

up as Antony moves threateningly toward him.

A PRISON GUARD from above turns as not to be a witness.

Hawk feebly calls up to him.

Antony swings at Hawk, who pretends not to notice until

the last second.  Hawk ducks and slam-kicks his calf.

Antony crumples, using the bat as a crutch.  Hawk boots

up the bat for a two-handed catch then savagely pivots

it across Antony's face, knocking him into the backseat

of the car.

Cesar floats into the backseat.  The Lincoln takes off.

Hawk seethes...

A BACKFIRE rings out.  Hawk hits the ground, thinking

it is a gunshot.

HAWK'S ON THE GROUND P.O.V.

A gasping 1960 Caddy comes to a stop and a pair of a too-

fancy-to-be-tasteful shoes comes out.  Hawk looks up to

see ALEX MESSINA, his older, maybe-maybe-not-wiser best

friend.

Hawk pauses to say something, then just hugs Alex.

A laughing Hawk gives Alex's stomach a slap before

getting in the car....

EXT. THE ROAD INTO HOBOKEN--DAY

The Caddy thunders past a sweet Manhattan view. "Come

Fly With Me" is playing on the radio.  Hawk casually com-

pletes an intimidating hand puzzle.

Alex pulls a styrofoam cup from a paper bag.

Hawk takes off the cap with a stimulating whiff.

Alex brakes and cappuccino flies.  Hawk half-heartedly

tries to lick up with his fingers.

EXT. OUTSIDE ALEX'S BAR--NIGHT

The Guys move through the personably Jersey face of the

bar.  The Empire State Building beams in the background.

Sinatra cuts off.

INT. ALEX'S BAR--NIGHT

It's changed.  Hawk and Alex enter into what has become

the ultimate pseudo-art deco-fern littered-nightmare,

packed with noisy, INSUFFERABLY SELF-ABSORBED YUPS.

A violently erotic and pretentious video plays upon

elevated T.V. sets set up all around the place.

Hawk's mouth gapes as he drifts by a sickening COUPLE

toasting wine coolers, and two very YOUNG BROKERS high-

fiving each other after missing a dartboard.

Alex lifts a piece of the bar and moves behind it.

Snatching up a menu, Hawk calls out...

Hawk lights up a cigarette.  A TORTOISE SHELL NON-SMOKER

immediately turns to him wearing a "Yes, I mind if you

smoke" button.

The Non-smoker fumbles out a pack of cigarettes and

flees.  A cappuccino in cup and saucer slides down the

bar saloon-style.  A smiling Hawk picks it up, turns away

from the bar and closes his eyes, bringing the cup to his

lips until a POLICE BADGE swirls into frame and splashes

into the cup, splattering coffee over Hawk's blazer.

Hawk makes eye contact up to a crude, coarse, and

cackling island of a man, OFFICER GATES, amid the sea

of oblivious and self-obsessed yuppitude, standing by

a table.

BACK OF THE BAR

With concern, Alex watches Hawk sit at Gates' table.

GATES' TABLE

Gates pillages a plate of spaghetti and meatballs with

terrifying precision.  Hawk tosses the badge onto the

food.  Gates eats around it.

Gates pulls up the black canvas bag and puts it on the

table.

Gates thunders out of his chair and moves around to sneer

down at Hawk.  Behind Gates, on the T.V. screens, are

analogous images of DISGUSTING ANIMALS AND MONSTERS.

Gates simmers into his seat with a self-control smile.

Gates pulls up a shoe and puts it on the table.

Hawk bobs under the table and up.

Alex suddenly approaches the table.

As Alex speaks, an eating dog is on the screens.

Gates grabs the shoes and races off, gagging.  Hawk gets

up to laugh next to Alex.  Their laughter dies as they

turn to look at the black canvas bag left on the table

between them.

INT. BACK ROOM--DAWN

Hawk stares mournfully at a black and white photo of a

monkey-sized chalk-outline on a city street.  Behind him,

Alex pulls out blueprints from the black bag.  Sinatra's

"Witchcraft" blares on the radio....

Hawk is rummaging through stockpiled remnants of an old,

"true" bar.  Round lamps, tacky mirrors, pictures of Hawk

and the Regs at the bar.  Managing a weary smile, Hawk

lifts a ship steering wheel, while Alex puts on a pair of

granny classes and pulls out blueprints.

Hawk nervously picks up a Rubik's Cube and holds it

behind his back.  He brings it back around, completed.

Sighing, Hawk drops the cube and rubs his scalp.  Alex

starts rubbing his stomach.  They pace in pre-job

syncopation and speak rapid-fire.

Alex gives Hawk a consoling two-hand-shake then jumps

back to reveal he has put Hawk into thumbcuffs.

Out of annoyance, Hawk breaks out of the cuffs and

violently throws them at Alex, who sits down a little

wounded.

Alex jumps up excitedly and then convulses in pain.

Alex flops down behind a work table before a wallfull of

drawings of different kinds of vaults.  He sets himself

up for an insulin injection.

Hawk leans in and administers the shot of insulin to

Alex.

Hawk collapses next to Alex, resigned to his fate.

EXT. NICE, BUSINESS NEIGHBORHOOD--NIGHT

TWO GRUBBY DERELICTS, one pushing a shopping cart, the

other inside it, situated atop the usual two Glad bags.

They are drunkenly warbling "Witchcraft."  IMPECCABLY

DRESSED NIGHT-LIFERS give them a wide berth.

Our derelicts pass beneath a MASSIVE RED CANOPY of a

distinguished eight story edifice, upon which is written

RUTHERFORD'S AUCTION HOUSE.  A DOORMAN shoos them away...

A NEWSPAPER TRUCK pulls up in front of the Auction House.

The Driver pops out with a bundle of papers and moves to

a Dispenser on the corner.  The Bums wheel around the

truck.  The Driver loads the papers and bounds back.

The Truck pulls away from the corner.  The shopping cart

rolls off--the bums nowhere to be seen.

The Truck turns the corner, revealing the derelicts

climbing up the back of it, with Glad bags around their

necks.  The Truck moves toward an enclosed Walkway Bridge

that connects the Auction House with another Building.

Launching low-tech grapples, the Vagrants latch them-

selves onto the Walkway window as the Truck passes

beneath.

AT THE WINDOW

The viewer's viewpoint moves into a tighter view of the

dangling derelicts, revealing them to, of course, be Hawk

and Alex.  Getting a footing, on the small window ledge,

each man cuts a hole in the window while holding onto a

plunger.

INT. INSIDE THE WALKWAY WINDOW--NIGHT

Hawk and Alex come through their window holes.  Hawk

immediately flattens himself against a wall, whisper-

ing...

Alex points to an open doorway just down the hall where

laughter and shadows emerge.  Hawk tries to flee, but a

grinning Alex pulls him toward it.

Hawk and Alex slide across the wall to a closed room

marked POWER, which is right next to the open Guards'

Station.  The viewer's viewpoint moves past Hawk and

Alex lock-picking into the Power room to...

INT. THE GUARDS' STATION

Two Security Guards sit before a console of seven

security screens still chuckling over an unheard joke.

Wires coming out of the security console run across the

floor and through the wall into...

INT. THE POWER ROOM

The wires go up to a row of seven humming, RECORD button

flashing V.C.R.s.  Hawk and Alex stand before them,

sharing a cig.

Alex presses the REWIND buttons on the V.C.R.'s.

Alex pulls from a nearby shelf six tapes marked MONDAY.

INT. SEVENTH FLOOR AUCTION AUDITORIUM--NIGHT

Moving beneath a video camera and a dazzling Set of

Hanging Horse Mobiles, a Heavyset guard, BIG STAN, moseys

through the dimly lit main auction house auditorium.  The

auditorium chairs are strewn out in the middle beside a

turbo Floor Washer.

Next to a painting of Happy Children Riding Horses at the

back of the auditorium stage, Big Stan hefts himself upon

a comparatively TINY BLUE CHAIR and begins to tip back

and snooze.

INT. GUARDS' STATION

The Security Guards look to the seventh floor screen to

see an unfolding shot of Big Stan mid-snooze.

THE AUCTION AUDITORIUM

Startled by his walkie-talkie, Big Stan falls back on the

little chair, crunching it to the ground.

THE FIRST FLOOR

The laughing security guards see the crunch.

INT. THE POWER ROOM

Alex puts the last of the Monday tapes into a V.C.R.

A freight elevator pings.  Hawk opens it up as the music

of "Swinging on the Star" kicks in on the soundtrack.

Hawk crams himself into the freight elevator with his

Glad bag.  Strenuously upbeat Ray Conniffesque singers

continue to sing the song, orchestrally accompanied, when

Hawk isn't.

INT. THE FREIGHT ELEVATOR

Hawk takes over the song, sardined in the elevator.

POWER ROOM

Alex goes up to a Circuit Box and pulls down two large

Switches.  The soundtrack singers continue to warble.

THE GUARDS' STATION

The lights of the floor wobble and die.  The console

screens blink off.  The Security Guards stop laughing.

Security Guard One harrumphs into a standing position...

POWER ROOM

Alex speedily hooks and rehooks the backs of the V.C.R.S.

They now all have their PLAY buttons lit up.

OUTSIDE THE POWER ROOM

Security Guard One fishes for keys to open the power

room.  The soundtrack singers whisper as not to give away

Alex.

INSIDE THE POWER ROOM

Alex briskly slams back up the switches.

OUTSIDE THE POWER ROOM

The singers go louder as the lights come back on.

Security Guard One harrumphs and heads back to the

Guards' Station.

THE AUCTION AUDITORIUM

Hawk scrambles out of the freight elevator in the left

wall of the Auditorium, glancing to the clock.

He pulls out the black canvas bag from his Glad bag and

takes out the blueprints.  Hawk follows them toward the

painting on-stage.

THE GUARDS' STATION

Big Stan comes up from behind his fellow guards, dumping

the remains of the chair on the floor.

The Seventh Floor Screen shows a peaceful auction

auditorium.  And the Blue Chair.

THE AUCTION AUDITORIUM--CAMERA P.O.V.

From the exact angle, the viewer sees the current state

of the room with Hawk flinging off the painting of the

horseback children, revealing a safe.  But no Blue chair.

HAWK

spits on the rubber cup of an electronic sensor, plugged

into a Walkman, and affixes it to the safe above the

dial.

THE FREIGHT ELEVATOR

Alex is now packed into the freight elevator.

THE AUCTION AUDITORIUM

Wearing headphones, Hawk cranks up the Walkman and spins

the dial.  The CLICKS from the dial are so loud he winces

and turns down the volume.  Then there's a CLUNK.

THE GUARDS' STATION

With the soundtrack singers taking over, Guard Two sips

a cup of coffee.  He doesn't swallow.

His sights zero in on the Blue Chair on the seventh

screen.  He looks to the chair remains, then back again.

Screen Two shows THE TWO SECURITY GUARDS THEMSELVES

hatching open some on-duty beers, going down a hall.

Guard Two looks to the empties atop the console....

AUCTION AUDITORIUM

Hawk ditches his accessories and swings the safe door

open.

Inside the safe, along with the "holy" Da Vinci music

cue, is the clay equestrian model from Leonardo's

worktable.

Hawk belts out as he put it in the black canvas bag.

Alex gives Hawk a congratulatory pat.

THE AUCTION ROOM

BIG STAN reconnects the wires of the seventh V.C.R.

THE GUARDS' STATION

Suddenly, on the seventh screen, the image and voices

of Hawk and Alex in-process comes on.

THE AUCTION AUDITORIUM

Hawk puts the painting back up, but stops to stare at the

playful children.

Hawk's soliloquy is cut short as Security Guards One and

Two crash into the auction auditorium.

Alex whips his chair at the floor washer, tipping it

forward and causing its electrical cord to pull up and

trip the Guards into a bellyflop.

Hawk bolts right at the bustling up guards and locks them

into Alex's thumbcuffs.  He then limbos under their

connected arms and springs over the outstretched washer

cord.  The Security Guards clumsily turn and re-trip

themselves.

Big Stan suddenly unhatches from the freight elevator.

Hawk and Alex run toward an office located at the right

wall.  They both do a Gene-Kellyesque-chair-tip-over

before simultaneously bashing through the office door.

INT. DARKENED AUCTION AUDITORIUM OFFICE

Hawk and Alex stop in the office to painfully laugh and

rub their funny bones.  Alex stops laughing.

Big Stan fires off a warning shot.  Hawk and Alex quickly

tear up a window.

Moving out on to a ledge, Hawk and Alex look down to the

huge auction house awning and trade gulps.

Big Stan wobbles into the mouth of the office door.

Big Stan raises his gun.

Hawk and Alex jump and AAAGH down the face of the

building....

Closer and closer to the awning....

The viewer focuses upon Hawk as he free-falls......

RIGHT INTO A LAZ-Y-BOY CHAIR

Hawk continues his "fall" into a ridiculously huge

reclining chair.  The foot stand swooshes out with a

thump.  A HAND pulls away the canvas bag with a cackle.

INT. GATES APARTMENT--LATE NIGHT

Hawk's weirdly reclining viewpoint makes Gates and his

pad more grotesque than they are (No small feat.)

A sub-Radio Shack stereo coughs next to a scary punch

bowl of red, margarita-like substance, beneath the

instantly recognizable framed picture of Those Dogs

Playing Poker, all atop a Jungle Shag.

Gates, in shorts and a Hawaiian shirt-over-a-KEEP ON

TRUCKIN'-T-shirt, raises a loud tumbler with one hand,

the black canvas bag in the other.

Suddenly a light is turned on in the corner, revealing a

seated Cesar and Antony Mario, the latter taking a painful

Gatesirita sip.

Gates pulls out the horse and looks at it.

A malevolently snobbish British Butler, ALFRED, enters in

distaste.  He makes a stressful glance to three VANITY

FAIRS on a coffeetable that has a photo of a MAGNETIC

HUSBAND-WIFE-DOG COMBO with the caption: MAYFLOWER POWER.

Hawk notices this.

Alfred takes the equestrian model and with a jeweler's

loupe, studies it carefully.

With dignity, Alfred SMASHES the ancient horse over

Gates's head.  Alfred rummages through the debris

REVEALING a perversely labyrinthine CRYSTAL PIECE.

(recognizable from Da Vinci's workshop).

Alfred pockets the goodies, but not before Hawk can give

them a confused peruse.

A blade slides down Alfred's arm.  Half-yawning, he...

ALFRED'S 180 DEGREE POV

spins before Gates and the bystanders behind him.

THE BLADE goes back up Alfred's arm.

The room's only sound is the stereo's inappropriate

music.  Gates shrugs but his voice is off.

Suddenly a line across Gates's neck turns red and blood

begins to gush like a tourist attraction.  Gates crashes

down upon the table holding the punch bowl and the stereo,

sending it to the ground, cutting off the music.  The Dog

Poker picture falls atop the carnage like a lid.

Blown away, Hawk tries to wiggle his way out of the

recliner.  Alfred pats some stain remover on the blood

on his shirt.

The Mario brothers cackle out.  Hawk tries to flail out

of his chair.  Alfred turns to him and flicks up his arm.

Hawk sees his life pass before his eyes until he realizes

Alfred is merely pulling him up off the chair.

INT. ALEX'S RESTAURANT--DAWN

Hawk bursts into the bar.  Alex sits on a stool, reading

the paper.

Hawk does a combat jump over the bar and begins to fiddle

with the cappuccino machine.

The cappuccino machine sparks.  A perplexed Hawk takes

a couple extra seconds to back off.

Hawk takes the newspaper.  There is a picture of the

Three Security Guards in a cheery pose behind the

"Sforza."  Hawk squints to see that Security Guards One

and Two are still wearing the thumbcuffs.

INT. RUTHERFORD'S AUCTION HOUSE--NIGHT

Dressed in a not-quite-fitting but suave tuxedo, Hawk

enters the now well-lit auction house auditorium (chairs

all set out).  Bored WORKMEN in coveralls lug equestrian

items on to a podium from the familiar freight elevator.

Someone raises their paddle as Hawk passes beneath the

hanging horses and finds an aisle seat near the stage.

Hawk scans everyone in the room before coming to the one

seated next to him, AN ENCHANTINGLY BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.

The Woman laughs at his gear switch then catches herself.

AUCTION ENTRANCE

Big Stan, the hefty guard from the heist, enters the area

wearing a blue ribbon.

AUCTION AREA

Big Stan is walking in back of the seated bidders:  An

oblivious Hawk in the foreground starts to scan VARIED

BIDDER-TYPES, raising their paddles to babble out dollar

figures; a GAUDY ROCK STAR and his GLOOMY-CHIC ENTOURAGE,

A KING FAROUK-TYPE with a BORED TEENAGE AMERICAN HOOKER,

and a scary NORDIC PRINCESS in a monocle and a tiara.

THREE STANDING ASSISTANTS frantically man a table of

phones set up down before the stage.  One raises his

arm.

A STYLISH FEMALE ASSISTANT takes out an impressive replica

of the "Sforza" from the safe behind the podium and brings

it to the Auctioneer.  The crowd a-a-hs... Hawk laughs

and shakes his head.

Hawk uneasily laughs as Anna makes her way up the stage

and pulls out a large magnifying glass.  A look of

distress passes over her face.  Hawk closes his eyes in

anticipation.

Hawk opens his eyes in confusion.  He scans Anna coming

off the stage, gliding toward the phone table.  Hawk

floats into the aisle, curling toward her as she picks

up a phone and murmurs into it.

The crowd orgasms as Vanity Fair cover boy, DARWIN

MAYFLOWER works the aisle, playfully mussing up the

appreciative, tiaraed Princess's hair, giddily high-

fiving the Rock Star, and sloppily frenching the Hooker.

Hawk turns to gaze at the enigmatically familiar figure.

Anna looks up from the phone to do the same.  She

swerves her attention to the back-turned Hawk.

Darwin moves to one of two reserved empty seats as his

wife, Minerva, makes her entrance par excellahnce.  She is

outrageously dressed with a mammoth Tiffany watch that

extends from her wrist down to, acting as a leash,

her obnoxious little dog, BUNNY.

Darwin, to the crowd's delight, holds his struck heart.

Commencing a slow motion sequence, Big Stan comes out

of the nearby office, zipping up his fly.  He immedi-

ately scopes Hawk in the space before the stage.

The Mayflowers lower themselves into their seats with

devoured canary smiles.

Big Stan pulls out his gun, untheatrically, as not to

cause a scene.  Anna sees this and follows Big Stan's

eyeline to Hawk.

Hawk turns to re-pursue but stops dead at the sight of

the gloating Big Stan.

Big Stan launches a gallop toward Hawk, who spins and

veers back round up the aisle.

The Mayflowers zero their sights on the activity.

The gavel comes down in super slow-motion.

Anna's leg pokes out of the aisle, tripping the guard.

Hawk brakes at the end of the Mayflower's row and smiles

in relief, casually turning to Darwin and Minerva.

The gavel continues to come down in super slow-motion.

Both Darwin and Minerva Mayflower suddenly DUCK DOWN.

Smile vanishing, Hawk spins toward the stage.

The Gavel hits.

Breaking out of slow-motion into wide-angle, the entire

podium explodes sending debris, equestrian pieces, and

eccentric bald pieces searing into the screaming,

battered crowd.

Knocked off his feet, Hawk gropes into a standing

position.  He sees the Mayflowers make a smooth exit.

He starts to give chase until he sees a battered Anna

rising from the ground.

A hanging white Tri-Star Pegasus, cracks from the

damaged ceiling and swooshes down towards Anna.

Hawk bolts upon some auction chairs and makes a flying

leap.  He slams Anna out of the Pegasus's pulverizing

Path.  They weary up off the ground and move down the

aisle, calm in a storm of packed art patrons.

Anna touches Hawk's lips and laughs.

Before Hawk can finish, a hanging horse out of nowhere

hammers him into the ground and the viewer into

darkness.

FADE IN:

INT. VAN-TYPE AMBULANCE--NIGHT

Hawk stirs into consciousness strapped on an elevated

gurney.

Hawk's eyes focus.  The Mario Brothers hover over him.

EXT. THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE--NIGHT

The ambulance careens onto the Brooklyn Bridge.

INT. INSIDE THE AMBULANCE

Antony raises up a mammoth gun.

A confused Antony touches his teeth with his gun hand.

Hawk escapes from one of his straps and launces a nearby

trayful of syringes into Antony's face where they ghoul-

ishly quiver.  Antony fires a wild shot, shattering the

partition.

FRONT SEAT OF THE AMBULANCE

The Scarfaced Bodyguard/Driver, now in paramedic white,

freaks at the starred windshield.

THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE

The ambulance bumper-pools off some innocent cars.

INSIDE THE AMBULANCE

Hawk frantically tries to undo his other strap but a

howling Cesar, side-stepping his vibrating-on-the-floor

brother, latches onto the back of the gurney and wrenches

it backward.

OUTSIDE BACK OF AMBULANCE

The elevated gurney blasts out the back with a now

unstrapped but terrified Hawk whoa-a-ing atop it.

The gurney wheels hit the road, sparking.

A sheet from the gurney, caught on the door, yanks TAUGHT

--Hawk is "water skiing" on his stomach atop the elevated

gurney!

Screeching cars are weirded out by the new vehicle on the

road.

THE GURNEY

Battered by wind and fear, Hawk clutches to the gurney

and the sheet with a grit teeth stoneface.

The sheet is torn from the gurney sending it rocketing

off to the side on its own crazed volition.

Hawk skis toward a TOLL BOOTH WITH A LARGE GATE-ARM.

He then sees he's heading toward an EXACT CHANGE lane.

Whizzing wildly forward on the gurney, Hawk scrambles

into his pocket and wiggles out some change.  He fran-

tically winnows out some pennies and then maniacally

FLINGS the change from twenty feet away.

TOLL BOOTH

The change ker-chunks into the basket and Hawk and the

gurney JUST BARELY streak underneath the rising Gate-arm.

EXT. THE AMBULANCE

CRASHES through a gate-arm of another lane.  Hawk and the

still-wildly whooshing gurney cut it off.

FRONT SEAT OF THE AMBULANCE

Cesar pops his head through the partition.

Antony, seemingly oblivious to the syringes porcupined in

his skull, pokes his head next to Cesar's.

Cesar and the Bodyguard/Driver turn to Antony and scream,

then all three look out the windshield and scream.

THE AMBULANCE

jackknifes over a stopped car and somersaults into a

fiery ball.

In the foreground, Hawk's gurney coasts down

A PEACEFUL OFF-ROAD

Hawk, with an unchanged expression of pure white knuckle

fear, comes to a tranquil gurney-wheels-gently-squeaking

stop.

Lit by the flames of the ambulance crash, a sneering

young man in wire rim glasses emerges from the darkness,

carrying a steel suitcase.  He kneels before Hawk and

opens the suitcase revealing a complex computer appara-

tus.  He begins mumbling into a cellular phone.

A malevolent, SILENT DEADPAN WRAITH passes him and

approaches Hawk.  Both men are dressed in outfits that

seem to be a melange of fascist uniform and haute

couture.

On the fingers of one Wraith hand is carved the word

HATE.  On the other hand is the word FROG.  The Frog Hand

hands a befuddled Hawk a card.  It reads: MY NAME IS KIT

KAT AND THIS IS NOT A DREAM.

Hawk looks up with a "huh" expression as Kit Kat chops

his neck, knocking him off the gurney.

The sneering computer guy hangs up his phone and pulls

forward a small cattle prod from his apparatus.

Snickers zaps Hawk in the leg with his device.  Hawk a-

a-ghs into a kneeling position.  Snickers returns to his

suitcase and is passed by a PLEASANT YOUNG BLACK WOMAN in

the "outfit."

She deftly kicks Hawk across the face.  Hawk angrily

bounds back up until he sees the BIGGEST MEMBER OF THE

GROUP Fe-Fi-Fo-Fum his way toward them.  Suddenly, the

Giant clumsily trips over Snickers' suitcase apparatus

and ram-collapses into Hawk and the gurney.  Laying atop

Hawk, Butterfinger goofily speaks...

The mysterious group parts to reveal a much more mature

and cynically subdued man dressed in big lapels and a hat

that screams Old Time CIA.  His name will be GEORGE

KAPLAN.

Hawk explodes upward.  Everyone but cool Kaplan draws a

gun.

As Kaplan converses, Snickers and Butterfinger bring out

a mammoth empty suitcase and open it behind Hawk.

Kaplan savagely point-blank punches Hawk in the face,

knocking him out cold and into the mammoth suitcase.

Snickers slams it shut revealing a KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL

sticker.

INT. MYSTERIOUS BARE ROOM--DAY

Hawk slowly awakens on an exotic couch.  He has been put

in an aggressively fashionable Italian outfit.  He eyes

and touches his new duds with complete bafflement.  He

then stumbles into a standing position to, mouth gaping,

take in a wondrous 360 degree view of Rome, Italy as "O

Solo Mio" blares on the soundtrack.

Hawk's spinning view and the music on the soundtrack slam

to a halt as he zeroes in on the sight of Scary Butler

Alfred elegantly reaching the top of the staircase.

EXT. OUTSIDE INTERESTING BUILDING--DAY

Alfred opens the back door of an omnipotent, Mayflower-

logoed LIMOUSINE.  The car moves off as Hawk slides in...

INT. THE BACK SEAT OF THE MAX-TECH LIMOUSINE

facing Darwin Mayflower who is blustering into the

cellular.

While he talks, Darwin shakes Hawk's bewildered hand,

then holding up one finger in a "be with you in a sec"

facial move.

A FAX MACHINE comes to life as Darwin babbles.

Darwin scans the Fax message with annoyance, and then

shoves it into a violent paper shredder.

OUTSIDE THE LIMO SHREDDER

Shredded paper litters out of a vent on the outside door.

INSIDE THE LIMOUSINE

A simmering Hawk tries to explode but the phone rings.

Darwin picks up the phone and goes Mr. Hyde, while giving

Hawk "Can you believe this guy"-type gestures.

Darwin holds the phone over a 50 cent piece-size siren in

his armrest.  Darwin presses a button and a PIERCING

NOISE fills the car as it comes to a stop.

Darwin bolts out.  Hawk hangs back, waiting for Rod

Serling to explain things, then bolts out too.

EXT. E.U.R. DISTRICT BUILDING--DAY

Hawk and Darwin head up the steps of an overpowering

fascistly marble superstructure.  Alfred brings up the

rear.

INT. MASSIVE CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

A mind-blowingly pretentious painting of Darwin, Minerva,

and Bunny hangs above a mammoth M-shaped conference table.

Lying atop the table in heels, shades, and a heart-

stopping dark outfit is Minerva.  NASTY Metal riffs semi-

audibly spew from a headset she wears.

Surrounding the table is a VARIED GROUP OF OLD MONEY AND

NEW MONEY BOARD MEMBERS ranging from a nine year old

INDIAN PRINCE to a SWEET ELDERLY AMERICAN WOMAN.  They

converse to the person at their side in businesslike

tones, oblivious to Minerva.

The board members go into tableau silence.  Minerva con-

tinues a brief sing-a-long before Darwin scolds...

The board applauds as Alfred pushes Hawk inside.

Minerva lobs a ball in the air.  Bunny, the annoying dog,

scurries beside Hawk to catch it.

Moving down toward the other end of the table, Hawk takes

in the surreal surroundings with battle fatigue.  He sees

ONE BOARD MEMBER take a luxurious sip of cappuccino.

Minerva paces up upon the table.

With a yawn, Alfred pulls out a pair of state-of-the-art

handcuffs.

Hawk kicks out at Alfred, who nimbly moves slightly and

gives a pummel to Hawk's body somersaulting him over the

edge of the table, into an empty seat.

The Board Members politely applaud.  Alfred pulls Hawk's

hands around his back and cuffs him.  Bunny intensely

sniffs his crotch.

Minerva yanks away the yelping dog.

Alfred plants a slide machine on the table and Darwin

starts clicking gorgeous images of Hawk and Alex robbing

the auction house, on a bare wall.

The Board members gush.  The Elderly Woman gives a

thumbs-up.

A slide hits the wall of himself and Minerva kneeling in

Big Baby clothes with Alfred snarling over them, decked

out in leather.  He clicks ahead...

Hawk looks away and sees that the Board members have an

annual Report-type booklet in front of them that reads--

THE DA VINCI/ALCHEMY PROJECT.

Minerva leans over in front of him.

EXT. A MASSIVE WIDE SHOT OF ST. PETER'S--DAY

The Vatican stands in its glory, mobbed by HUNDREDS OF

LOCALS AND SIGHTSEERS.  The viewer's viewpoint zeroes in

on the Mayflower limousine circling around it.

INT. THE LIMOUSINE

Hawk looks out from the back seat of the limousine

in stylish Italian sunglasses.

Two identical Twin Flunkies sit across from him, grinning

stupidly.  Hawk pushes up his sunglasses with his middle

finger.

INT. VATICANESQUE MAP ROOM

Mentally casing the joint, Hawk gets some distance

between him and the flunkies as he enters into a room

that has a glorious, ancient Map of the World Mural.

INT. ANOTHER VATICAN ROOM

Hawk makes a scribble in a notepad before coming to a

Vatican guard, standing before a painting of a Pope

performing a Coronation.

A jaded Hawk laughs and pats the cop on the back.

INT./EXT. CIRCULAR OPEN AIR HALLWAY

Hawk comes out onto a circular open-air hallway.  He

scans up to some rooftops and makes a note...until he

sees a line of International Phone Boothettes.  Checking

for Flunkies, he rips one up.

The Flunkies drift into view.  Hawk hangs up and seethes

off.

INT. HALLWAY LEADING TO CODEX ROOM

Hawk saunters down a long resplendent hallway toward a

room at the end bustling with excitement.  Coming to the

mouth of the room, he looks to two gold framed mirrors on

either side of the opening, rubs his head, and scribbles.

INSIDE THE CODEX ROOM

Hawk takes in the majestic beauty, and practical details,

of the room--windows, statues, a Massive Ornate Lighting

Fixture--as he moves down one of the twin winding stair-

cases leading to a path of people behind velvet ropes and

the object of their gaze...

THE DA VINCI CODEX

--an old book enclosed in a glass case, propped open to

the familiar BEAUTIFUL DRAWING of a MAN inside a CIRCLE.

The case is located between two informational tablets

enclosed in glass columns.  Enter Holy Da Vinci theme.

Hawk brightens to the return of Anna, carrying a portfolio

bag, striding down the stairs with a group of INVESTORS

AND FAMILIES.  She brightens back, giving him a quick

verbal breath and a hand squeeze.

She laughs, going into her public voice.

A LITTLE BRAT trailing the group, moves next to Hawk,

bitching away to her STUFFED ELEPHANT, POKEY.

The Little Brat stops and lets Pokey the elephant dangle

from her side.  Hawk eyes the elephant strangely.

The stuffed elephant suddenly goes flying over Anna's

head.

The ALARM goes off.  The Massive Ornate Lighting Fixture

swoops down from the ceiling, inverting in air, and slams

down over the Codex, transformed into a makeshift cage.

Strange green gas comes billowing out of the vents.

Needless to say, everyone goes crazy.

Coughing gas, Hawk peeks to see that a line of light

sensor alarms imbedded in the tablets are what set the

alarm off.

Two GAS MASKS drop airlinesquely from the mouth of the

entranceway and TWO RACING-IN GUARDS wrangle them on.

The Little Brat sees that Pokey the stuffed elephant has

been beheaded by the cage/lamp.  She is pulled away and

spanked.

Anna yanks a notetaking Hawk away as the gas blusters in

around him.  The Two Flunkies, eyes on Hawk, are hap-

lessly making their way up the opposite staircase.

Reaching the top of the stairs, just outside the door,

Anna briskly pulls Hawk into a PIECE OF WALL THAT IS

REALLY A DOOR.  The wall closes as the Flunkies come

flying out, baffled.

INT. CIRCULAR STAIRCASE

Hawk, mucho impressed, and Anna move down a tight, dark

circular staircase.

Anna shakes her head as she opens a door into...

INT. A LITTLE UNDERGROUND SUBWAY--DAY

A four foot high mail train rumbles down the track of a

mini-underground station.  Workers latch onto mail bags.

Hawk and Anna emerge from a small door.

The Two Flunkies stumble into the station, looking

around.  Anna and Hawk crouch down.

Hawk and Anna peck each other with a smile.  He crawls

out an exit door.  As he leaves, Anna's smile disappears.

She pulls out a rosary and gives herself a self-scolding

bang on the head.  She then darts to a large crucifix

and looks up.

Suddenly a speaker in Jesus's mouth gently crackles.

INT. CATACOMBLIKE AREA

A CARDINAL paces in an enigmatic Vatican area.  Anna

clacks up to him.

EXT. NAVONA PIAZZA--DAY

The evil Hawk clumsily strides around a fountain, looking

off in all directions, soft-shoes past some sedate

painters and swings into...

INT. A BIG QUIRKY PHONE BOOTH

Hawk grabs up the phone and dials....

The Mayflower limousine creeps to the edge of the piazza,

behind an oblivious Hawk.

Hawk turns, putting a finger in his ear.  Seeing the

limo, he FREAKS and balls himself into a corner.

INT. ALEX'S RESTAURANT--NIGHT

It is late night in New York.  A phone rings atop the

bar of Alex's restaurant with no one in sight.

INT. PIAZZA--DAY

Hawk pokes his head to see a Darwin and Minerva (holding

Bunny) emerge from the limousine.  As he turns his con-

centration back to the phone, ALEX HIMSELF flows out from

a building to cheerfully speak with Darwin and Minerva

and get licked by Bunny, before they all pile into the

limo.

Hawk slams down the phone and turns to see the limousine

pull off.

Hawk angrily bursts from the door and is painfully

CLOTHESLINED by agent Butterfinger, who is dressed as

a mailman.

Crumpled on the ground, Hawk kicks out with his foot,

into Butterfinger's stomach, doubling him. Hawk then

grabs him by the head and rams into the glass of the

booth.

Hawk rotates off for an escape...but the rest of the

CIA crew cuts him off holding barely concealed guns;

Snickers dressed as a maitre 'd, Almond Joy as a Bermuda

tourist, and Kaplan in his usual emsemble.  Kit Kat is

dressed exactly like Hawk, right down to a bloody lip.

Hawk gives him a double take.

A humiliated Butterfinger comes waddling out, holding

the phone.  Kaplan rolls his eyes.

Almond Joy smoothly extracts Hawk's notebook and reads...

Kaplan and the crew quickly disperse in different

directions as Hawk howls in frustration.  Kit Kat moves

behind Hawk and perfectly mimics him.

Without looking, Hawk elbows the mimic Kit Kat in the

face.  Kit Kat gives Hawk a strange smile and hands him

a card that reads:  BEWARE THE ODD STEPS.

Hawk looks up from the card.  Kit Kat is gone, but

Butterfinger scampers in his place.

Sighing, Hawk takes the huge sheath of stamps.

EXT. INDOOR TRAIN TRACK

One of the small Vatican mail trains bullets across an

indoor track.  The viewer's viewpoint whooshes to catch

up, focusing on a very large package, addressed to the

Pope, that has Hawk's sheath of stamps slapped onto it.

The train zips into a tunnel.

INT. THE VATICAN UNDERGROUND SUBWAY

The train rumbles into the Vatican mini-station.  TWO

HARRIED WORKERS heave up the strange cargo onto a sorting

table.

A bell rings as a clock hits 10.  The workers do a sigh

of relief.  Shucking off their uniforms, they head out.

A hand rips out of the huge package.

INT. OUTSIDE THE CODEX ROOM--NIGHT

Hawk pops out of the secret passageway door and moves to

the mouth of the doorless Codex room.  He pauses to

hand-comb his hair in the two large, framed mirrors at

the sides.

THE CODEX ROOM

Carrying the now frameless mirrors in each hand, Hawk

hustles to the top of the steps and suddenly stops.

Hawk crouches down and notices the step below him has a

clear magnetic tape running across it to a dime sized

alarm button.

Hawk bounds down every other one of the steps down to

where the Codex is bathed in a holy light.

He hefts up the two now frameless mirrors and puts them

each in a groove of a collapsible yardstick running

across the top.  The parallel mirrors now face out from

each other.  Hawk sprays a blast of Clairol to reveal the

light sensor beams, and then with a deep breath, he

thrusts the mirrors into the beams.

The light bounces harmlessly off the mirrors and Hawk

exhales.  He balances the connected mirrors then crawls

through his tent-like passageway.

Hawk squirts acid from a biker's bottle on the cracks of

the rectangular glass case that holds the Codex.  The

acid sizzles.

INT. VATICAN LIBRARY HALLWAY--NIGHT

A BURLY GUARD thoughtfully stares at a painting, fingers

propping his chin like an critic then continues ambling

on.

THE CODEX ROOM

Rubbing his head, Hawk gives an excited smile as the glass

cracks of the rectangular case loosen.  Hawk pulls out a

pocket fisherman....

The viewer's viewpoint moves upward to reveal, through

the mouth of the room, the Burly Guard is coming down

the hall.

OUTSIDE THE CODEX ROOM

Burly Guard approaches the outskirts of the Codex room.

He combs his hair into the piece of wall in the now

empty mirror-frame then REALIZES.

Muttering Italian into his walkie-talkie, Burly Guard

rushes into the room and looks down to the sensor

deflecting mirrors.

He passes a statue, behind which, Hawk is revealed to

be standing.

Burly Guard approaches the Codex and sees the dripping

acid.  He also notices a fishing hook attached to the

binding of the Codex.  The fishing wire leads out of

the glass case.  The Guard reaches to touch it when

suddenly the wire is pulled tightly upward by a

moving-out-from-behind-the-statue Hawk.

The Codex FLIES off its perch, setting off the ALARM and

sending the bizarre cage/lamp CRASHING DOWN and AROUND

the hapless Burly Guard.  The green gas commences its

noxious billowing as the Codex swooshes into Hawk's

hands.  He then hurls a softball, smashing a window

on the other side of the room.

The familiar Vatican Guard and a Guard Three barrel

down into the mouth of the codex room.  Only one

Gas Mask drops from the doorway.  The Vatican Guard

pulls it on and gives a "That's Life" shrug of

shoulders to the fainting Guard three.

Hawk puts on the missing gas mask and launches a grapple

around the ceiling cord of the dropped Ornate Lighting

Fixture.  Hawk then Tarzans from one staircase to

another.  He then ungrapples and heads toward the

shattered window.

The Vatican Guard waits a stunned moment before giving

chase.

EXT. THE ROOF

Hawk flings off his gas mask and begins a classical

skipping-across-the-rooftop jaunt.  Suddenly a brick

on the slightly slanted roof gives way and Hawk FALLS.

His canvas bag goes skipping down across the roof,

landing against the antennae.

INT. THE POPE'S BEDROOM

A T.V. showing Mr. Ed. speaking to Wilbur in Italian

goes fuzzy.  THE POPE, wearing his famous hat and a Notre

Dame bathrobe angrily bangs on it.

EXT. THE ROOF

Hawk harvests his grapple on the level part of the roof

and slides down toward the dangling-off-the-antennae bag.

The Vatican Guard pops out of the window and fires a

warning shot.

Hawk stretches to the bag.  His fingers touch as the

Guard continues to bound forward.

Hawk pulls up the bag and turns himself to see Vatican

Guard hovering over him on the roof.

Hawk sees the Vatican Guard's foot move toward the

grapple.  Hawk ferociously tugs, ripping the Guard

off-balance and knocking down a side of the roof.

EXT. TOP OF A NEARBY WALL

Hawk dashes atop a nearby wall and hurls his grapple

across a road around a tree branch.  Hawk ties the end of

grapple line, tosses on a friction belt, takes a breath

and JUMPS OFF THE WALL.  The viewer follows him on his

breathtaking ride.

The brused Vatican Guard flops back atop the roof.  He

gets off a wild shot before crumpling back down.

HAWK

is alnost to the other side when the Guard's bullet hits

the friction belt.  Hawk drops with a wild scream...

and lands with a painful straddle atop a street lamppost.

His eyes bug out with the thought of a life without

children.  He slowly spins off the lamppost and sails

down upon...

EXT. A BUS

and the comfortable luggage housed on top of it.  Hawk

tries to maintain his balance upon the wobbling

baggage, but the bus makes a quick turn and Hawk goes

flying off...

EXT. RIGHT INTO A CAFE CHAIR--NIGHT

Panting and discombobulated, Hawk looks across the table

to the female hands holding open a menu.  The menu comes

down.  It is Anna.  Hawk unpretzels and laps his canvas

bag.

Hawk does the honor sign with his black gloved hand

then quickly rips it off as a WAITER comes to the

table.

Anna hits her forehead with the palm of her hand while

the waiter's entire body sinks in disappointment.  Other

TABLE OCCUPANTS sadly shake their heads.

EXT. ANOTHER TABLE--NIGHT

At a comfortable distance curled behind a heat lamp,

Snickers is being an Uglier American to an UNCOMPREHENDING

WAITER, while Almond Joy chuckles and Butterfinger spreads

butter over an entire baguette.

The Waiter sneaks off.  Butterfinger devours his bread.

They look off to....

HAWK AND ANNA'S TABLE

Physically sarcastic, the Waiter brings a tall wine

basket with a bottle of ketchup in it.  Hawk nabs it.

Anna giggles and bends to kiss a bruise.  She stops

herself and opts for tickling.

Roaring with laughter, they capsize onto the floor.

Hawk slithers around to devour her toes.  Anna closes

her eyes and arches her back.....

She opens her eyes and sees a large crucifix staring

right at her.  With a gasp, she rolls away from Hawk

and stands up, trying to brush off her sins.

Their heads fuse for a semi-classic screen kiss until

THE CRUCIFIX LIGHTS UP AND BEGINS SHOUTING IN ITALIAN.

Anna slides on her shoes and makes a hasty retreat.

She bumps into the canvas bag.  The Codex slides out.

They both catch it in mid-air.  Anna's eyes pop.  She

wrenches the Codex away and kicks.  Hawk pulls her into

a compassionate back-against-his-stomach hug.  The Codex

falls to the floor unharmed.

EXT. A CAR OUTSIDE OF ANNA'S PLACE--NIGHT

Crammed together in the front seat, Snickers, Almond

Joy, and Butterfinger are watching the shadows of

Hawk and Anna up in the window.  Snickers snaps a

cartridge into a gun while Butterfinger attacks a

goo-ey pastry.

Butterfinger pulls up the book on Da Vinci that Anna

wrote and starts reading like a schoolboy.

INT. ANNA'S PLACE

Foam shoots out over the coffee.  Hawk smiles down at

it as Anna works a cappuccino machine.

THE CAR OUTSIDE

The agents burst from the car, guns raised.

ANNA'S HOUSE

Hawk sips the cappuccino.  His face immediately contracts.

Anna throws a pillow on the ground and holds out her

hand.  Hawk collapses.  His coffee cup lands perfectly in

Anna's outstretched hand and his head lands perfectly

on the pillow.

The candy bars bash the door open, guns raised.

Snickers and Almond Joy grimace into fake smiles.

EXT. THE CASTLE--NIGHT

A helicopter thunders up to the awesome castle from the

opening Da Vinci sequence.

INT. HELICOPTER

Anna pets the head of Hawk on her lap.  She is pondering.

INT. A MYSTERIOUS DARK ROOM--NIGHT

A sparse circle of light houses a chair and a pacing

Kaplan.

Snickers and Butterfinger flop Hawk onto the lit chair.

Kit Kat is dressed exactly like Anna.  She reacts as she

comes into the light.  Kaplan takes the Codex from her.

Hawk stirs.  The viewer gets his woozy P.O.V.

The lights in the room come on to the sound of holy Da

Vinci theme, revealing an almost perfect refurbishing of

the exact same workshop Da Vinci toiled in in the

opening.

Kit Kat in drag spookily moves inches away from Anna.

Kit Kat smiles, revealing the fact he has no tongue.

Hawk gives her a look of honesty and pain that causes

Anna to guiltily gulp as she heads out with the mimicking

Kit Kat.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CASTLE--NIGHT

Moving into the chopper, Anna glimpses, Bunny, the

obnoxious dog, in a Mayflower logo dog tag, taking a leak

on some bushes.  She fakes a yawn to the like dressed Kit

Kat who fakes one back.

INT. THE G. MACHINE ROOM--NIGHT

Kaplan, Hawk, and the other agents march into the mammoth

room of the opening scene.  In the place of where one

remembers the gold machine are undulating sheets, beneath

which are unassembled parts of the machine.

Inside, a ball goes whizzing out of a tennis ball

machine.  In tennis gear and goggles, Darwin Mayflower

thwacks it against the wall of (now faded) frescos.

Also in tennis threads, Minerva is laying on a chaise

lounge holding a gadget in her hand.

Minerva turns the gadget up to SEVEN and presses a

button.  Another tennis ball shoots out, a little faster.

Darwin batters it.  The ball ricochets into the forehead

of an "amused" Alfred who is retrieving balls in sweat

pants.

Hawk reaches for the Codex.  Kaplan pulls it over to

Darwin, who pulls up his goggles and fondles the ancient

binding.  Taking a knife from Kaplan, he begins to slit

it open.

Hawk looks away to the billowing sheets and the strange

machine parts behind them.

Minerva slits the bindings and tugs out another geometri-

cally perverted crystal.

Kaplan, Darwin, and Minerva look up to Hawk, then to each

other, all start to speak, then all stop.

This quandary is deferred by the entrance of the twin

Flunkies.

Hawk uses the distraction to amble toward the sheets.

Shockingly swift, Minerva pulls a small gun from beneath

her tennis dress and blasts a burning hole between each

set of Flunky eyes, splattering them to the ground.

A SHOCKED HAWK

quickly turns from the blithe carnage and pulls up a

sheet.  He reveals the familiar Gold Machine Demonhead.

THE MAYFLOWERS

reverberate off each other with laughter.  Bloodstained,

Kaplan and Almond Joy exchange an eye bulge.  Minerva's

smile disappears as she sees Hawk by the sheets.

Snickers touches him.  Hawk smashes him in the jaw.

Snickers rears back to reciprocate....

Snickers stops himself, snarling in frustration.  Hawk is

suddenly the happiest man he's been in Italy.

Hawk pulls Snickers' glasses off and stamps them.

Hawk knees Butterfinger in the stomach.

Hawk body-block-dominoes Butterfinger and Snickers to the

ground.  Kaplan and Almond Joy aim their guns.

Playfully lifting his shirt, Hawk grabs Minerva and

manually swivels her hips to the beat of his.

Hawk mambos to Alfred who rifles his blade up to Hawk's

crotch.  Hawk stops dancing.

Alfred moves the blade a little upward.  Hawk a-a-ghs.

Alfred strategically Vulcans Hawk on the neck.  He falls.

INT. DARK CONFESSION BOOTH--MORNING

The lips of Anna come into light.

INT. THE CARDINAL'S SIDE OF THE CONFESSION BOOTH

The cardinal suppresses a yawn.

ANNA'S DARKENED LIPS

THE CARDINAL

freaks and goes into some Italian gibberish before...

INT. OUTSIDE THE CONFESSION BOOTH--MORNING

The Cardinal emerges and stands by Anna's confessional

curtains.

Anna moves out of the confessional curtains, wearing a

FULL NUN HABIT for she is a Nun.  The gaspingly beautiful

church unfolds as they walk.

Anna puts on the coolest pair of sunglasses, deliciously

contrasting with her habit.  She moves off....

INT. ROME CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

Beneath the wacky portrait, Darwin circles the board-

member filled conference table as Minerva smooches Bunny.

Everyone watches Alfred place a bar of Gold and of Lead

in the hands of a blindfolded Hawk at the middle of the M.

Hawk "weighs" the two bars in his hands--digs with his

fingernails.  He rips off the blindfold in subdued

frustration.  As Minerva speaks, she unconsciously

molests Alfred.

Minerva angrily throws the dog off her lap and whips a

tennis ball into its mouth.

Bunny barks up at Hawk in anger.

Alfred quickly latches on the state-of-the-art handcuffs

and the blindfold.  The viewer's viewpoint stays on a

writhing Hawk.

Hawk kicks back on the table, "jump ropes" the cuffs,

then picks the lock with his teeth.  Hawk rips off the

blindfold to see that the entire room is empty except

for Alex, standing at the other end, in an incongruous

Italian leather coat.

Alex pulls out a gun from his jacket and clicks it in.

EXT. FAMILIAR PIAZZA--DAY

The piazza from the fascist E.U.R. building are bustling

with office workers laughing, smoking, and hustling.

Darwin, Minerva and Kaplan are a solid troika in the

center of the steps.  The other agents stroll in the

periphery....

As Darwin slaps Kaplan on the back, behind them, Hawk and

Alex come crashing out of the windowed doors of the building.

Moving to the edge of the stairs, Hawk and Alex, latter

holding his gun, sprout up from their own debris and

continue savagely brawling.  The wigging out passers-

by give them space.

Alex trembles, going into a diabetic seizure.  He shakily

raises his gun.

Hawk roars forward like a bull and helmets Alex.  They

roll together down the massive staircase past Darwin,

Minerva, and the CIA who react with "This can't be

happening" catatonia.

Two SHOTS go off as Hawk and Alex crash to the bottom of

the staircase.  Hawk rises up in a daze to see Alex on the

ground with two bloody bullet holes.

Hawk falls to his knees as Snickers hustles toward him.

Suddenly, sirens are heard as a police van pulls up.

Snickers stops.

Four policemen blast from the back of the van.  One holds

back the crowd.  One strenuously pulls Hawk into the van.

The other two drag in Alex.

The villains look to each other for non-existent guidance

as the van pulls away.

Using initiative, Snickers hops on a Vespa and roars off

after them.  The van can be seen swerving off.....

AROUND A CORNER

where it bolts up into a much larger truck marked VATICAN

SOUVENIRS.  TWO SEEMINGLY-INNOCENT-BYSTANDER PRIESTS break

demeanor to flop up the wheel ramps, slam close the back

of the truck, lock it shut, and continue on their solemn

way.

The TRUCK BELLOWS off as the Vespa spins around the corner.

Snickers brakes and looks around for the police van.  He

hits his handle with frustration.

EXT. BEAUTIFUL ROME OVERVIEW

Out of her habit but still in her incredible sunglasses,

Anna looks out to a lovely view of Italy.  The Vatican Truck

pulls up behind her.  A giddy, blood-stained Alex and a not-

so-giddy Hawk bound out of the back.  Alex excitedly gives

himself an insulin shot.

Hawk's fist whooshes into frame and blasts Alex's jaw.

Hawk pulls out the Demon Head that was in the Mayflower

Museum from out of his pocket.  Anna turns white.

Anna looks to Hawk with a choked-up expression.  The

weight of the world on his shoulders, Hawk turns away

to a lovely view, his mind painfully raging and

swirling toward peaceful clarity.

Anna involuntarily does the sign of the cross.  Alex

goodnaturedly does a jerking off motion.

Shaking his head, Hawk swipes the plane tickets from

Alex.

A proud Hawk slaps Alex on the back as some passing

ITALIAN LOCALS stop to stare, horrified, at Alex's

bullet holes.  Anna sweetly intervenes.

The locals give off a slightly dazed "A-a-h" and move off.

INT. THE CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

Wind blows through the shattered conference room window.

Snickers is banging on his computer apparatus at the

table with the Mayflowers and the other agents.

Darwin and Minerva politely smile and then turn away to

each other with knowing looks.  The computer screen shows

the familiar image of the Kremlin building that turns

into a complex look at interiors the viewer will later

see.

INT. A VAN-BUS--NIGHT

A head-rubbing Hawk and a stomach rubbing Alex kneel on

the floor of a moving van, over a barely legible drawing

of what was so neatly delineated on the CIA computer.

Both guys are dressed as priests and are chewing gum.

Hawk laughs and pops up into the passenger seat.  Anna

is revealed to be driving in her habit.  Hawk gives her

a kiss.

Hawk, Alex, and Anna all spit out their gum into a bag

Hawk holds.

Hawk takes in some views of Moscow that remind one of

Budapest.

THE VAN

passes a textbook shot of the Kremlin in the distance.

EXT. THE TOP OF THE KREMLIN--NIGHT

Kaplan, Snickers, Almond Joy, and Butterfinger slam down

upon the roof of the Kremlin and discard their

parachutes.

Snickers opens up his computer screen, upon which is the

image-map of the Kremlin with a flashing blue light at

the top of the building and a flashing green one inside.

EXT. THE KREMLIN GROUNDS

Dressed in cat burglar black and all chewing gum, Hawk,

Alex, and Anna crawl across the Kremlin grounds.  They

scope out a shabby Delivery Entrance.

All three spit out their gum into Hawk's bag.

The Trio rush for the door.

THE KREMLIN ROOF

SOVIET GUARD ONE comes out on the roof to light a cig-

arette.  He looks in the distance to the motivating CIA

team.  Suddenly a card floats down into his hand.

It reads:   WILLIAM TELL.  ADAM'S APPLE.  GET IT?

The not-getting-it Guard looks up from the card as a

grinning Kit Kat parachutes behind him.  The Guard

swerves around and Kit Kat savagely skewers him with a

crossbow shot to his Adam's apple.

THE DELIVERY ENTRANCE

Hawk, Anna, and Alex race to the door, the latter

bashes it...

INT. GRUNGY WHITE FOYER

open and sets off an annoying hammer-against-bell alarm.

Alex all-fours beneath the alarm.  Hawk does a Michael

Jordan vault off Alex's back and slam dunks A MASSIVE

BALL OF USED-GUM, pulled from his bag, between the

hammer and the bell, cutting off the sound.  They rush

ahead.

EXT. THE KREMLIN ROOF

The agents are trotting across the roof when a phone on

Snickers' apparatus rings.  Kaplan answers it.

INT. NONDESCRIPT HALLWAY

Minerva chats on a cellular moving down a hallway, with

Darwin, who is holding in his laughter as if this was a

great crank.

INT. A GRAND BALLROOM

The good guys scurry upon the second level of an epic

and gorgeous ballroom.  Two lush staircases lead up from

the floor.  From behind a pillar, the gang checks out

the activity below.

A tablecloth is being wrangled over a large table at

the opposite end of the ballroom by SERVANTS.  Threaten-

ing SOVIET SOLDIERS maneuver on the floor.

They then make a mad scuffle across their side of the

second level, hunkering down by the level railing.

As they move into another wing hallway, the viewer's

viewpoint moves back down to the ballroom floor to see

a gloating DARWIN AND MINERVA ENTER, the latter still

on the phone.

The servants move away from the tablecloth and the

table, revealing that it is shaped like an M.  A GROUP

OF SERIOUS SOVIET V.I.P.'s come out to join the

Mayflowers at the table.

THE ROOF

Kaplan hangs up the phone.

The team moves up to the rooftop doorway where Kit Kat

is.  He holds up an "About Time" card.  The agents laugh

and greet them.

INT. A VERY LONG, ENIGMATIC HALLWAY

Hawk, Alex, and Anna pass through a set of windowed

double doors into a very long hallway that leads into a

pitch darkness.  A MURAL OF A HAPPY, ARM-STRETCHED LENIN

looms above the doors.  They give it a a quick glance

before pulling out screwdrivers and wire hangers.

Our trio charges down the hallway.

They reach a MASSIVE SPOOKY DOOR WITH AN ODD, ANCIENT

LOCK.  They go to work on it.  Not losing the beat.

INT. TOP FLOOR HALLWAY

With a gust of wind, Kaplan and the Candy Bars bluster

through the rooftop door into another hallway, where

SOVIET GUARDS TWO AND THREE are taking it easy.

Snickers and Butterfinger calmly blow away both guards

with silenced mini-Uzis.

SOVIET GUARD FOUR rushes out a door before the agents,

zipping up his fly.  Almond Joy twists his neck with an

agonizing SNAP.

THE LONG HALLWAY

Hawk, Anna, and Alex retreat beneath the Lenin mural

through the windowed double doors.

Behind the doors, they poke up to see a BESPECTACLED

GUARD emerge from the darkness to check out the door.

Hawk and Alex are not thrilled about the idea, but Anna's

eye flutter does it.

The Bespectacled Guard moves back into the darkness.

THE BALLROOM

The Soviet V.I.P.'s open up presents of pink L.A. GEAR

tennis shoes, silly T-shirts, and Nintendo joysticks

as a standing Darwin hypnotizes them.

AT THE LOCK

Alex holds a lit match into the lock, while Hawk

does something incomprehensible with a screwdriver.

They are improvising...

Anna suddenly, booms out the chorus in a way that Hawk and

Alex can barely concentrate.

THE HALLWAY ABOVE

The CIA team saunters through corpses up to a door

similar in lock and design to the one Hawk and Alex

are working on.

Snickers's computer screen shows the blue light directly

above the green light.

Butterfinger pulls from around his shoulder a strange

rifle.  He attaches to the front of it;, a glass encased,

suctioning time-bomb from a waist satchel.  He fires

the bomb against the door and it starts ticking.

BEHIND THE WINDOWED DOUBLE DOORS

come Hawk, Alex, and Anna, panting.

Alex hands Anna his gun, who glumly takes it like a Little

Sister not allowed to play.  Hawk and Alex go back through

the doors.

THE HALLWAY ABOVE

The CIA bomb blows up the door with a weird silencer

sound.  Kaplan and the Candy Bars giddily whoop as they

rush through the smoking door.

THE BALLROOM--SECOND LEVEL

Anna meanders across the second level muttering to herself

in Italian and amusingly imitating Hawk's condescension.

Anna suddenly moves past the pillar to see the Mayflowers

and the V.I.P.S.  She gasps and hurls herself behind the

second level railing.

THE BALLROOM FLOOR

A VERY DIGNIFIED SOVIET LEADER, in a SHIT HAPPENS baseball

cap, addresses Darwin.

THE LOCK OUTSIDE THE DOOR

Hawk and Alex more frantically toil on the lock.

The lock clunks open.  They race through the doors into...

INT. THE ART TREASURE ROOM

Hawk and Alex weave through the room which is crammed,

with little nuance, to the gills with great art treasures

including an impressive array of Faberge eggs.  A solid

gold hammer and sickle hang on one wall...

They rumble toward an opening in the wall of the room

covered by a small curtain that has the Da Vinci Man in

the Circle drawing emblazoned across it.  Hawk reaches

for the curtain.  Alex puts his arm around him and speaks,

not sings.

Suddenly, the roof above them explodes.  Kaplan and the

Candy Bars drop down behind them.

Kaplan point blank shoots Alex in the chest.  Alex

crumples backward, moaning.  Butterfinger, casually, but

with incredible strength, holds Hawk's arms behind his

back.

Kaplan pulls back the Da Vinci curtain.  Nothing is there.

THE BALLROOM BANQUET

A SOVIET CHEF lifts up a silver domed serving tray,

revealing the Da Vinci helicopter model.

ANNA

bulges her eyes at the revelation.  She pulls out Alex's

gun and bangs herself in the head.  What to do....

THE ART TREASURES ROOM

Kaplan is bugging out.

They thunder out.  Hawk, still in Butterfinger's

oblivious clutches, shouts..

Kaplan raises his gun.

THE BALLROOM BANQUET

Darwin holds the Da Vinci model in one hand and raises

a glass of vodka in the other.

Minerva and some various Soviet VIPS spew their vodka to

look up to Anna pointing a gun down at them from the

second level.  She is shivering, shaking the gun.

In unison, the Soviet Soldiers surrounding the table

begin machine gunning up at her.  She dives behind the

railing.

THE ART TREASURES ROOM

Kaplan lowers his gun.

Falling for the oldest trick in the book, Butterfinger

looks down to his shirt.

Hawk bounces up to savagely head-butt Butterfinger.

Butterfinger slams back against a wall causing the Gold

Sickle to fall down around his neck and knock him to the

ground, pinning his head to the floor.  The Gold Hammer

next trembles off the wall and crushes Butterfinger's

skull.

Hawk flings a Faberge egg, smashing the gun out of Kaplan's

hand.  Hawk pelts a batch more at him.  Kaplan sloppily

whips some eggs back.  Hawk finally smashes one in half

and beans the jagged piece into Kaplan's eye.  He squeals

to the ground, geysering blood.

Hawk swoops down to a wheezing, breath controlling Alex.

THE BALLROOM

Bullets stop splintering around Anna at the railing as

the soldiers fling out their empty cartridges to reload.

Snickers, Almond Joy, and Kit Kat race out of the hall-

way area into the ballroom area.  They stop at the sight

of Anna....

Anna feebly raises her gun.  Almond Joy laughs and

pulls out a knife.

The Soviet Soldiers snap in new cartridges as Almond Joy

moves out from behind the pillar towards Anna.  The

Soldiers blast away at this newly appearing figure.

Almond Joy ruptures and vibrates in a Sonny Corleone

ballet.

Snickers and Kit Kat militarily roll on either side of

Anna as their partner wilts to the ground.  The men,

Snickers with his mini-Uzi, Kit Kat with his cross-

bow rifle, briefly leap up to fire down at the soldiers

with some graphic success.

Anna watches Darwin and Minerva head up the stairs to

her level.  She bolts off....

BALLROOM FLOOR

The last of the Soviet VIPS flee as the Soldiers tip

over the M shaped table on its side, using it for

cover, firing upward.

KIT KAT

breaks off and scurries around the second level to get

a position behind the M.

He fires down an arrow for a successful kill.  Another

guard tries to fire up, but Kit Kat impales him to the

back of the table with a quality shot.

Kit Kat grins and reloads as Alfred, the butler, regally

creeps behind him.

HAWK

comes out of the long hallway double doors up to where

Anna is bustling.  They hug...

Hawk and Anna turn to see the Mayflowers hastening in

their direction.  Noticing them back, the model-toting

Mayflowers halt.

KIT KAT

turns to Alfred and fires his crossbow.  Alfred effort-

lessly cuts it in half with his blade and continues

to move forward.  Still smiling, Kit Kat tries to reload.

MINERVA

breaks the standstill.

Grunting behind them, Snickers gun-butts Hawk to the

ground.

Snickers swings a punch.  Hawk blocks it then whomps

him in the chest.

As they battle, Darwin grabs Anna's hair, slams her

into a pillar, and watches her crumple.

KIT KAT

gets in an arrow but it's too late.  Alfred stabs

him deep, deep, deeply, and lifts him from the ground.

A shower of cards reading "OUCH" "PAIN" and "THIS REALLY

HURTS" rain from out of Kit Kat's coat.

Alfred discards him over the edge.

Kit Kat sails down upon the M.

The lone card of "FUCK" plops from his open eyed corpse.

HAWK

and Snickers trades fierce blows, stumbling down a

staircase.

DARWIN

and Minerva watch the fight with amusement.  Alfred

approaches.

SNICKERS

slashes Hawk in the arm with a small but sinister blade.

Snickers goes for a final thrust when suddenly one of the

silencer time bombs suctions to his head.

Hawk turns to see Alex, barely standing, at the top of

the stairs, holding the strange rifle.

Darwin and Minerva turn to this dramatic entrance.  They

start to trot off...

HAWK

boots Snickers down the stairs.  Snickers somersaults

up and frantically tries to pull off the bomb.

Snickers wails to the soldiers, who have lowered their

guns and are poking their heads out of the M to watch.

The soldiers high-tail it out.  Snickers plugs his ears.

Nothing happens.

Snickers blows up gloriously before the M.

THE STAIRCASE

Hawk bounds up to Alex, who puffs down onto the steps.

Hawk rushes up the. stairs, gives a "What can I do?" glance

to the unconscious Anna, and then continues rushing, past

a pillar.  Minerva emerges from behind the pillar and

moves forward.

THE LONG ENIGMATIC HALLWAY

Hawk chugs beneath the Lenin mural and down the hall-

way.  He sees Darwin breezing in front of him.  Darwin

looks back to Hawk then runs forward into the darkness.

THE BALLROOM

Minera sits down next to the pained Alex.

Minerva pulls out a candy bar and rips it open.

Minerva savagely slams Alex's head down and shoves the

candy bar in his mouth.

THE HALLWAY

Hawk moves closer and closer to the darkness of the

hallway when a one-eyed and bleeding George Kaplan dives

out of the Art Treasures room and tackles him.  Hawk

kicks him off...

THE BALLROOM

Alex gulps down the last of the candy bar, shivering.

She pulls out another candy bar.  Alex, with a last

burst of strength, punches her across the face.

THE LONG HALLWAY

Hawk and Kaplan lock onto each other's throats.

Suddenly, of all things, a car is heard rumbling in the

darkness.

Hawk and Kaplan stop fighting and turn to see THE MAY-

FLOWER LIMOUSINE screeching out of the darkness with

Darwin standing out of the sunroof firing a gun.

Bullets fly around them.  From his back pocket, Hawk

slaps the nice picture of him and Little Eddie into

Kaplan's hands.

Hawk jumps up and grabs a hanging lamp.

Deranged with confusion, Kaplan turns from the picture

to the charging limousine.

The driving Alfred smiles through the windshield.

Kaplan's body slams into a vivid somersaulting crash

into the windshield.

Hawk's hands burn and sizzle on the hanging lamp.

Passing beneath, Darwin raises up his gun.

Hawk lets go of the lamp and drops down on Darwin,

locking his legs around his neck and crushing him

down into....

THE BACKSEAT OF THE LIMOUSINE

Hawk and Darwin grapple on the floor of the limo.  The

Da Vinci helicopter model bobs on the backseat.  Darwin's

gun goes off..

right through Alfred's throat.  He slumps over, pressing

down on the accelerator.

THE LIMOUSINE

blasts down the hallway, sparking off the wall, and

bashing off paintings and mirrors.

THE BACKSEAT

Darwin flicks on his paper shredder and shoves the side

of Hawk's hand into its teeth.

OUTSIDE THE LIMOUSINE

A mist of blood coughs out of the shredder vent and makes

a weird bloody line across the wall.

INT. BACKSEAT

Hawk yanks his hand from the shredder and grabs the meg-

lomaniac by the hair and shoves his head down on the

arm rest.  Hawk turns on the piercing siren and Darwin's

eyes try to escape his head with a high pitched scream.

Darwin's entire body bucks wildly.

Darwin back-elbows Hawk and moves down for his gun.

Hawk pulls him back by his hair, grabs him by the balls,

and pushes him upward through the sunroof.

Darwin pounds his fists on Hawk's head as Hawk hits the

sunroof switch sliding it shut on Darwin, pinning

his arms below the roof, but leaving his torso twisting

in the wind.

The mural of a happy Lenin with his arms outstretched

looms ahead waiting to greet Darwin.

Putting two and two together, Darwin loses it....

The limousine charges through the double doors and Darwin's

body connects with the mural.

INSIDE THE LIMO

Hearing the crunch, Hawk flips into the front seat and

brakes the vehicle.  Alfred's head bounces against the

steering wheel.  Hawk reaches over with a grin and picks

up the Da Vinci model.  He looks to Alfred, Kaplan

crunched in the windshield, and Darwin's dangling legs.

THE BALLROOM

Hawk runs up to a woozy Anna and helps her up.  She has

a cross-shaped blood stain on her forehead.

Hawk looks to Alex, sitting on the stairs, the same way

he left him.  Hawk rushes to him.

Hawk grabs Alex's shoulder.  Alex falls back.  Written

over his face in red lipstick is REALLY DEAD.

Engaging a slow motion sequence, Minerva saunters behind

Anna, putting on red lipstick.  Minerva slams her back

to the ground.

Hawk howls then turns to see stiff-upper-lip Alfred,

bleeding from the neck.  Hawk tries to throw a punch,

but Alfred blocks it and crunches him across the face.

The Da Vinci helicopter model bounces down the stairs

in slow motion and cracks open, revealing the intricate

mirror of the opening scene.

INT. DARK ROOM ATOP MAYFLOWER MUSEUM--DAY

A damaged Hawk awakens in a dungeonish room and stumbles

to some shutters.  "O Solo Mio" returns on the sound-

track as the shutters open to a postcard view of Vinci.

Hawk closes the shutters and cuts off the music.  A

slightly more composed Anna touches his shoulder causing

him to jump slightly.  They melt into a kiss.

Alfred enters the room in his favorite outfit with a

bandage around his neck.  His voice is strange, but still

polite.

Hawk and Anna unconvincingly laugh then sadly pause.

Alfred gives them a push.

INT. THE DA VINCI WORKSHOP

Alfred leads them through the Da Vinci workshop past the

bat winged glider and incongruously crammed-in tennis ball

machine.

INT. THE ROOM OF THE GOLD MACHINE--DAY

Alfred grandly opens double-doors to reveal that Da

Vinci's gold machine has been majestically re-created

piece by piece.  In the periphery, the 90's rears its

head in the form of THREE TECHNICIANS wearing headsets

and gun holsters who consult computer terminals.

Hawk and Anna turn to see Minerva splashily enter in

sexy funeral-wear.

As Minerva speaks, TECHNICIAN ONE forcibly escorts Anna

toward a stand near the gold machine and tightly

handcuffs her to it.

TECHNICIAN TWO commences a forcible escort of Hawk to the

gold machine.  Hawk cold-cocks him to the ground.

Anna looks at the oil cloth diary before her.  She pulls

a compact from her pocket and holds the compact mirror

over the scribblings.  Reading off the reflection, her

eyes widen.

Trying to get a grip on Anna's words, Hawk lets himself

be escorted to another stand before the gold machine that

has the two complex crystal parts and the weird mirror.

Minerva flicks a switch on the stand Anna's handcuffed

to.  Anna vibrates, being electrocuted.

Minerva switches it off.  Giving himself a head rub, Hawk

bears down on the three oddly malleable objects.  He

TANGLES and BENDS and with a loud SNAP, puts them

together, forming the Crystal from the opening scene.

Minerva snatches it from him and puts on a head-set.

Minerva giddily sets the crystal in the same place as Da

Vinci had it in his machine.

Using a long steel pole, Technician One adjusts a myriad

of mirrors so they are in a proper angle with a series

of lenses culminating on the top of the machine.

Technicians Two (black-eyed) and Three pour various

chemical powders and liquids into corresponding compart-

ments on the machine, beautifully decorated by the

chemical's zodiac sign.

Alfred places a lead bar in its proper place.

Hawk glides to Anna and undoes her handcuff.

Anna puts her fingers on his lips.

Minerva throws a lever.  Steam begins to percolate from

the furnace towards the machine.

THE MACHINE

begins to rotate, at first clunkily, then faster.

The Crystal rotates comfortably in its compartment.

The machine throws out its folding arms, each with an

element.  The arms click higher.

The goggled technicians stand before a time-coded video

monitor, taking notes.

The chemical housings open and the chemicals begin to

spill and drop through brass tubes.

ANNA

murmurs to Hawk.

Hawk pulls out the mirror from his pocket.

IN THE MACHINE

The chemicals snake down their individual paths to the

Lead Bar spinning its trough.  There's a FLASH and a

controlled but jarring explosion.

EVERYONE

doubletakes.  Hawk reaches down to the six foot steel

pole and with one swing slams the faces of all three

deep in concentration Technicians to the ground.

Oblivious to the violence behind her, Minerva, pulling

on goggles over her head-set, moves closer with a

religious purr.

THE MACHINE

triggers a fresnel lens and laserlike beams bounce around

the mirrors faster and faster, circling the room.

OUTSIDE THE MACHINE

Hawk and Anna squint, blinded.  Flinging off her goggles,

A literally beaming Minerva giggles forward.

THE MACHINE

Beams of light converge on the top mirror and bounce into

the innards of the machine with a mighty roar!

MINERVA

sees that the center of the machine gleams yellowish and

molten.  She moves closer, shouting into her head-set.

The machine thunders and spins at a more aggressive

pace.

Hawk's voice suddenly comes on Minerva's head-set.

HAWK AND ANNA

stand above the unconscious Technicians.  Hawk is on

head-set.

MACHINE

Minerva turns toward the machine in anger and confusion.

The center of the machine blows.  The pool of molten gold

rockets at the viewer.

Mirrors explode and the lasers slash at the walls.

Minerva tumbles from the machine, screaming, that is to

say, trying to scream, because molten gold covers her

face.  It bubbles and cascades, turning her into a

bizarrely beautiful echo of Nefertiti.

HAWK AND ANNA

turn to retreat, and see, standing in the mouth of the

open double doors, in an open shirt, wearing Indian war

paint on his face and the words RULE BRITANNIA painted

on his chest, ALFRED!

Alfred rushes forward with a howl.  Hawk meets him

halfway.  They trade savage punches and then lock onto

each other's throats.

Anna pulls a gun from a technician's holster and prays

for forgiveness.  She aims steadily, and fires...

right into Hawk's arm.  This allows Alfred to knock him

back with a strong punch.

She fires again.  The bullet pings off Hawk's belt buckle.

Hawk's turning to chastize Anna, allows Alfred to kick

Hawk back against a wall.  Alfred lunges out with his

blade, hitting the wall off-angle.  Hawk yanks the shaft.

Alfred goes with the flow and presses the shaft on Hawk's

throat.

Gasping, Hawk looks to a rip in Alfred's shirt and sees

a hinge and lever on the shaft.  With an all or nothing

jerk, Hawk flicks the lever.  The shaft clicks on the

hinge.

Alfred's greater strength and narrower grip makes it fold

away from Hawk and suddenly it is

is caught in the V-shaped trap!  The momentum of the

sudden change makes Alfred stumble towards the wall until

the point of the "V" hits it--

Hawk takes the six foot steel pole and gives a Babe Ruth

swing right onto the V.  The blades slam together and

POP ALFRED'S HEAD OFF, SENDING IT SCREAMING DISEMBODIED,

HIGH IN THE AIR.

ALFRED'S SCREAMING HEAD P.O.V.

Hawk and Anna are seen waving up to the viewer (Alfie's

head).

The machine thunders with another explosion.

THE DA VINCI WORKSHOP

Hawk and Anna rush into the Da Vinci workshop.  She

guiltily touches the surface wound on his arm.  He

delicately takes the gun from her and laughs until he

sees...

BUNNY THE DOG!! standing in the open mouth of the

workshop.  Anna turns to Hawk...

Anna confidently moves toward the dog until Bunny leaps

up and savagely clamps his teeth into her throat sending

her crashing to the ground.

Hawk pauses in disbelief before raising the gun.

Bunny continues to viciously gnaw away on the convulsing

Anna, blood gently starts to emerge.

Hawk can't get off a shot.  He throws down the gun in

exasperation.  It lands next to The Gadget that is

connected to the Tennis Ball Machine.  Hawk rushes

forward, picks up the gadget, turns the dial to Ten, and

then smiles sweetly toward the dog.

Bunny stops his violent behavior and perkily looks up

blood droplets drizzling from his mouth.

Hawk slams down on the gadget.

A tennis ball comes rocketing out of the machine.

Bunny leaps and catches the rocketing ball but the force

of it sends him FLYING AND CRASHING out a window.

Hawk pulls up Anna as the machine completely EXPLODES.

A huge chunk of the roof THUDS before the workshop door.

Hawk suddenly looks off-camera and smiles.  Anna shakes

her head vigorously.  He pulls her out of the frame.

EXT. A VINCI COUNTRYSIDE TREE

A man awakens from a nap and pulls up his hat.  It is THE

TRAVELING JUGGLER WITH THE UNFORGETTABLY ETCHED FACE.

He pulls his three red balls from a pouch on his mule.

He begins a stoic juggle when another loud BOOM sends him

to the ground.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE GRAND CASTLE--DAY

An explosion of steam and gas blows out the windows!

Debris frisbees toward the camera along with....

Anna, hanging on Hawk's waist, and Hawk, hanging from

the bar on DA VINCI'S BAT WINGED GLIDER.

The glider gracefully swooshes down through the castle -

through the glorious vista.

EXT. THE ROAD TO THE CASTLE

The glider floats to a perfect landing before the

Unforgettable Juggler.

Hawk and Anna collect themselves and look up to the smoke

billowing castle.  They smile and gush in relief.  They

wrap arms around the confused but warming up Juggler and

laugh again.

A SMALL PIAZZA

The mule trots into a small storybook piazza in the hush

of dawn.  Hawk, Anna, and the unforgettable Juggler ride

atop it.

A WOMAN WITH AN UNFORGETTABLY ETCHED FACE moves to a cafe

table with a luminous smile.  She unfolds a table cloth

atop it and then mystically sets down two cappuccinos.

Hawk and Anna dismount, thank the Juggler, then cozy into

the table.

Hawk puts on a pair of sunglasses that look exactly like

the ones Da Vinci wore in the opening and raises his cup.

The viewer's viewpoint moves into Hawk's lips having a

sip of that damn unmasculine European coffee.

