His visitor frowns. Ozzie quickly unlocks a cashbox. He grabs

some colored plastic cards and offers them like meat to a lion.

His visitor takes a blue card, inspecting it like a curiosity.

Then steps closer. Ozzie shrinks back. An ominous moment, then-

O f f Ozzie's cowering and confused look, we -

F r o m darkness grows a seed of light. The whisper flies low and

quiet, its spotlight roving the undulant desert. Now picking out

metal glints as it banks over a scrapyard. Now training its beam

on a figure in the dust whirl beneath. Ozzie, his hair flying

wild, gesticulating madly. The whisper follows his directions,

nosing onwards, its spotlight corrugating across the red rocks.

I n the middle of nowhere, a canopied platform. Not unlike the sub-

w a y platform, it borders a deeply trenched lodeway. A wave of dust

rolls in, swelled by the whisper, landed beyond. It seems to bring

Scheer to the platform. He scans around for a clue, a footprint

perhaps. But somehow he already knows. He looks up the lodeway,

eyes honing. The deep black line stretches far into the night.

Silence. Still. Sanger sits nursing a cup of herb tea. Crowne

sits smoking. Stubs in the ashtray speak of long hours waiting.

The still is broken as Merrick emerges from an adjacent room.

Sanger and Crowne look up, expectant. Merrick closes the door

with slow care. Then he faces them, a grim tenor in his voice-

The whisper slices the night, running lights blinking. We pan to

frame it against a skyline of black towers. A glittering row of

domes and spires, somehow celestial, touching the sky. The city

bears no trace of its origins, once built over Indian ruins, now

rebuilt, subsumed by urban overhaul. It has become a metropolis.

A glass dome, faceted, insectile. A haut-monde h i v e . The movers

and shakers of the high-tech boomtown drinking, dancing. Shot

waitresses dose blue tequila. Bass music thuds like a heartbeat.

Scheer looks out of place here but the crowd's too self-absorbed

to care. He moves through them, invisibly, towards a corner booth.

TWO MEN IN SUITS sit with a bottle of blue tequila. The first is

bald, pale and dead-looking, he'd be the grim reaper but for his

fixed leer. The second is long-haired, bearded, hulking, more of

a grim ploughman. He has a metal brace screwed into his forearm.

Burdon sips his drink. Scheer, underwhelmed, takes a seat.

He grins, cannily. Scheer grimaces, a pro suffering an amateur.

A STAMPEDE BEGINS - customers running scared - his quarry lost

in the stampede, Burdon vaults over the table - Diggs pulls out

what looks like a twin-barrel sawn-off and launches after him -

Scheer stays seated, watching the hunt with remote curiosity--

H O F S T E T T E R C L A W S THROUGH THE STAMPEDE - spotting Burdon and the

thunderbolt close behind - he drops out of the firing line - onto

his knees - crawling, banged about - almost at the exit, almost--

T W I N BARRELS PRESS TO HIS HEAD - Diggs looks down - grinning,

beckoning him upright - Hofstetter l o o k s up - bleak, defeated -

A GIRL blunders into them - toppling over Hofstetter i n t o Diggs--

H O F S T E T T E R T A K E S HIS CHANCE TO RUN - now scrambling against the

stampede - Diggs disentangles himself and levels his weapon -

the stampede parting - throwing themselves to the ground as--

- B O O M - DIGGS FIRES - the scattershot hits Hofstetter a s he flees

up some steps - peppering his leg - sparks off metal as Diggs

keeps firing - his weapon now earned the name of a "rainmaker".

H O F S T E T T E R R E A C H E S A CATWALK - his leg dragging, numbing from

t h e tranquilizer cores - the catwalk dead-ends - blind panic now -

He ducks under the rail, reaching for the dome - finding a

precarious handhold, he swings across - trying to climb --

D I G G S COMES UP BENEATH - looking up, grinning - the pathetic

sight of Hofstetter - one leg useless - clinging to the dome

like a fly trapped under glass - as Burdon goes to recover him -

B u r d o n pulls out some handcuffs and stands waiting. Diggs returns

to the booth. Pouring out two tequila shots, he grins at Scheer -

S u n l i g h t blinks off a chain of carriages, travelling the trench

of a lodeway. The overnight shuttle slits through the desert.

The sun is a muted orb behind polarized glass. Lincoln stares out

of the window at the bleak new world blurring past. He's wearing

Ozzie's ballcap o v e r his crosshatch, his former clothes discarded

for some of the old man's ill-fitting denims. Perhaps a disguise

or perhaps just to shed the memory. He glances across at Ester,

dressed likewise, her hair teased to cover her crosshatch. She's

dozing, head rested on the glass. A TICKET COLLECTOR comes up-

Lincoln looks at the man in uniform, uncertain what he wants. The

ticket collector shakes his head. These two look like deadbeats.

Lincoln assimilates. Money. The word is familiar. He pulls out

the blue plastic card. The man in uniform looks encouraged. He

gives him the card, watching him slot it into a handheld device,

which briefly flashes, then the card is returned. Lincoln sees a

strip at the top is now transparent, like a depleted reservoir.

He assimilates. Not so different from the transactions in the

world below. Then he notices Ester is awake and is looking at

him. Her bright eyes, dim and troubled, somehow accusatory.

Ester , disconsolate, looks out of the window. In her gaze, the

forlorn air of a hatchling fallen from the nest. Lincoln watches

her, knowing her troubles and knowing that he cannot relieve them.

The skyline stands reprised in daylight. A glimmering citadel.

P a s s e n g e r s climb the steps from an underground gloom. Lincoln and

Ester with them, jostled by the more certain flow. They cross the

portal onto the street and stop, dazzled by the sunlight. Only to

be dazzled again by the sudden, stunning prospect of the city...

F i r s t there's the quality of light, a burning white, perhaps from

depleted ozone, depicting everything in a surreal shimmer. Then

there's the towers, darkly crystalline, facets of polarized glass

rising to domes and spires, like monolothic f i n g e r s reaching for

the sky. The traffic flashing past, the chassis identifiable as

trucks, taxis, compacts, sedans, streamlined in a nautical trim,

hull runners in place of wheels. The sound of claxons, more like

fog horns than car horns. Then there's the street itself, a six-

l a n e lodeway, lanes marked with buoys, bobbing around on cables.

The graceful arcs of pedestrian bridges at the intersections. The

citizens, strange hairstyles, fashions, all wearing sunglasses.

Even to us it's a wondrous sight. The urbanism, the grandeur, as

if here in the heart of southwest, Manhattan has met Venice.

A w e interrupted, Lincoln and Ester look around. Slouched by the

street exit is A HOBO with a mangy dog. He grins toothlessly-

Lincoln and Ester step back as the dog rises to greet them. Tail

wagging, it noses forward, sniffing. Then, abruptly, drops its

tail and backs off, whining. Lincoln and Ester likewise back off.

Both sides have just discovered a new species. The hobo pets his

whining canine, watching the strangers walk off with curiosity.

The sunlight flares off passing vehicles, hypnotic. The faces of

pedestrians flash past. Lincoln and Ester wander in thrall up the

street. Everywhere new sights, new curiosities bombard them...

The storefronts, mysterious recesses behind polarized glass. The

glass, alive with pixellated g r a p h i c s , marquees: "Temps! Temps!

New Tech Opportunities!" - "Beauty Therapy! Manicures, Dermals,

Follicle Grafts!" - "Discount Legal Service! Class Actions Only!"

H o l o f r a m e b i l l b o a r d s loom over the street, huge shimmering

panels like phantom jumbotrons, commercials playing on a loop:

- - A businessman in a conference room, shrinking from a fierce

negotiation; the scene replayed with the same businessman, now

on his feet, stabbing his finger angrily in the air; a pill

bottle in CU, a text super "Combatrine! The Aggression Enhancer"

- - A teenager bemused by his homework: his parents escorting him

into a clinic; the teenager hooded by an electronic dome; his

parents clapping; the teenager smiling as he accepts a diploma;

a text super "Intellex: Data Impression For A New Generation"

Lincoln suddenly looks round, realizing Ester is gone from his

side. He scans the sea of faces. Then spots her stepping through

a doorway. Over the threshold is a holoform: a pig with wings,

circled by the legend "Hog Heaven! Home Of The True Hamburger".

F a s t food outlets have evidently changed little. Promotional

posters in 3D: "Ham Slam", "Porker Forkers", "Bacon Blitz".

Service counter, seating area. Ester is looking around like

Alice In Wonderland. Lincoln comes up, out of breath, edgy-

He nods, realizing he is too. He plants Ester in a seat and looks

around. People stand in line transacting, receiving food trays.

Not unlike nutrition plaza. Lincoln ventures to the counter. He

offers the blue card hopefully. THE SERVICE CLERK looks at him-

He indicates a menu above. Lincoln assimilates, looking up at

the menu. Understanding now, his face lifts to almost a smile.

It's the first time he's been given an unrestricted choice.

Lincoln returns to Ester with a tray of food and drink. She's

staring off again, distant. He puts a burger and drink cup in

front of her. She seems not to notice. He tries to engage her-

But Ester just keeps staring, her brow now furrowing as A LITTLE

GIRL skips past, maybe 11, sipping a soda. Now Lincoln sees her

too and is transfixed. Now the little girl notices the strangers,

staring at her. She hurries onward, uncomfortable. Lincoln and

Ester's eyes follow. It's the first time they've seen a child.

A low rumble. A plume of smoke. A sudden eruption of fire. A bird

rises from the flames and a phoenix spreads its wings. Widening,

we reveal this is a holoform o v e r the terminal entrance.

Union Station now looks more like Grand Central. A huge granite

facade, a covered colonnade linking to pedestrian bridges at the

corners. Here, in the flow of figures, we make out Lincoln and

Ester, resembling tourists. Then, a short distance behind, we

spot two more figures. The hobo and his timorous dog. Following.

V a u l t e d . Arched windows, mosaiced i n polarized glass. Sunlight

falls in filtered shafts. Footfalls echo off polished granite.

Lincoln and Ester scan around. Ester looks daunted by the space.

Lincoln looks focused. He sees people in line, transacting.

The sign on the window reads "Tickets". Lincoln assimilates. The

word is familiar. He steps up to the counter with Ester. A TICKET

CLERK - female, immaculately groomed - greets them with a glossy

smile. Lincoln offers her the blue card. She seems not to notice.

Lincoln has to think. Dates mean nothing to him. He ventures-

Lincoln and Ester turn to look. The interceder is pale, bald,

wearing leathers. A stranger to them, we recognize him as DIGGS-

Diggs demonstrates, wafting his hand across the ticket counter.

It cuts through the ticket clerk with a holographic ripple.

He grins genially, examining their faces, verifying his quarry.

Lincoln examines the pale man. The sense of danger is welling-

D i g g s shrugs, disarming, trying to win them over, nice and easy

per the mandate. Then he notices the eyes of his male quarry. The

pupils, black and dilating. Suddenly the male jerks away, like a

shying horse, drawing the female with him. Diggs, unperturbed,

makes no attempt to follow. Turning his back on them, he touches

a device concealed in his ear canal, a miniature two-way radio-

Lincoln and Ester emerge into the colonnade, rejoining the flow

of figures. Lincoln presses the pace, alert, darting looks back.

The pale man doesn't appear to be following. But the sense of

danger is spurring him to gain distance. Ester, vicarious to the

danger, stays close to Lincoln's side, scurrying to keep up.

Neither of them notices the grey vehicle sliding up on them,

kerbside. A commercial transit van known as a "cutter", it's a

common sight on the streets. The driver leans out of the window -

hair tied back, dressed in buckskins, we recognize BURDON-

Lincoln and Ester turn to look. The dark giant is just another

stranger, cast in a demeanor of casual inquiry. He's offering an

opportunity to gain distance but Lincoln remains hesitant. The

sense of danger, turbulent, hard to read. Burdon sugars the way-

He taps a button and the side-door slips open. Lincoln looks into

the lightless c a v i t y , wavering, uncertain. Ester, hugging close,

nervous. Figures passing, jostling them toward the cavity. The

dark giant, looking on expectantly. The pause stretching, then-

DARTING OUT INTO TRAFFIC - Lincoln leads Ester by the hand like

a child - across the lanes, dodging, weaving through the gaps -

claxons b l a r i n g , deafening - sunflashes, blinding - a sudden

shadow - a huge freight truck bearing down, no gaps ahead --

LINCOLN DRAGS ESTER TO THE GROUND - both flattening against the

concrete lode-bed - the shadow engulfing them - the truck's hull

runners shearing narrowly over their heads - the rush of air,

sweeping off Lincoln's ballcap - rousing a storm of dust--

LINCOLN AND ESTER CHOKING - crawling onward through the dust -

hull runners scudding overhead - maybe only a foot of clearance -

buoy cables whipping around like cheesewire - onwards, crawling

across the concrete - fighting their way across the lode-stream--

B U R D O N WATCHING from the sidewalk where Lincoln and Ester first

dropped, scouring the trench for a sight of them. Now he spots

them, climbing up onto the sidewalk the far side of the street.

D i g g s now arrives at his side, sweating, out of breath. Now

seeing their quarry take off up the far side of the street, he

turns to his lumberous p a r t n e t , fury mixed with incredulity-

B u r d o n just looks at him, displaying the metal brace on his fore-

a r m . Diggs, out of sheer frustration, gives him a pounding shove-

The refuge of shadow. The alley is divided by a lodeway and the

walls on each side are jutted with dumpsters. Lincoln and Ester

run up the narrowed strip of sidewalk, forced into single file.

A huge shape looms ahead. A garbage vehicle known as a "scow".

Like a leviathan spreading its tentacles, the scow's tube-arrays

dock with the dumpsters and start sucking the contents out.

Lincoln glances back to find Ester has stopped and is cringing

away from the tentacled monster. He returns to her, his eyes

flicking around, aware that their real predators are close-

He takes Ester's hand, drawing her onward. But Ester recoils,

shaking off his grip. Now he looks at her more closely. She's

panting, shuddering, fraught with trauma. Her voice is haunted-

She shrinks into the shadows, shaking her head. The hatchling

wanting to return to the nest. Lincoln meets her eye, deeply-

Ester holds his gaze, chest heaving. Then looks back towards the

alley mouth. Her fingers reach for her belly, clawing a little.

Then her eyes lower, assimilating, reason reasserting its heavy

grip. Lincoln senses her turmoil. His voice is soft but sturdy-

Ester looks up at him again. The forlorn air seems to have faded.

Her eyes, grimly set. Her face, a little haggard. Older somehow.

She takes Lincoln's hand and together they head off up the alley.

The alley mouth darkens as a vehicle turns off the street. The

grey cutter moves through the shadows, prowling and shark-like.

The drone of resistors. The throbbing glow of the drive console,

a panoply of instrumentation. Burdon steers in silence, Diggs

beside him, edgy, intent, combing the shadows for their quarry.

He fires a barbed look. Burdon absorbs this, unflinched, thinking-

Lincoln and Ester walk up the street. Wary of attention, they go

with the flow of figures, eyes peeled for predators. The sights

of the city now seem hostile. Faces flash past, dead-eyed in sun-

g l a s s e s . Traffic rushes like steel rapids. Storefronts construct

a black wall. Holoframe b i l l b o a r d s loom, mocking, half-noticed:

- - A woman in a bathroom, adjusting her sexy neglige; a crack in

the door shows a man in bed, waiting; the woman closes the door

and picks up what looks like a toothpaste tube; she arches her

eyebrow; "F.I.G. F e m i n i n e Impulse Gel... Because who needs him?"

- - A cemetery under a grim overcast sky; suddenly a frisbee flies

across frame; an old woman, dressed like a teenager, catches it;

she tosses it to an old man dressed likewise; a text super "Death

Sucks!", a sting, "New Gaza Healthcare: Your Life Is Our Life."

Lincoln and Ester stop at the corner. They look around, blindly,

no coordinates, no frame of reference. Urban canyons, identical,

gordian a n d chasmic. P a s s i n g figures jostle. Then Lincoln spots

something across the street. It looks like an over-sized phone

booth. Its beacon flashes; "C.I.N. - CITY INFORMATION NETWORK."

A flourish of music greets Lincoln and Ester as they enter. The

fanfare conjures a holoform i n mid-air. A cartoon rattlesnake,

benignly rendered, welcomes them with a clownish, fanged smile:

A set of text frames appear: "Residential Listings", "Business

Listings", "Transport Listings", "Hotel Listings". Lincoln

assimilates. The terminologies are not unfamiliar.

The snake rattles accordingly and coils in a holding pattern.

Then a tomographic map of the city appears. A red dot plants

itself under a text flag "You Are Here!". Then other red dots

scatter across the map, each flagging with transportation icons.

B u r d o n steers calmly, scanning the streets. Diggs impatiently

bashes the keys of a holocom on the drive console. A holoframe

hovers, snowed with static. Then a secretary's face appears -

sagging, older, primped and painted young. Her name is JANEEN-

B e f o r e he can object he taps a key. The holoframe blinks out.

A surging sound. A surface of water. A burst of spray. A dolphin

leaps from the waves and hangs suspended. Text scrolls around:

"Get Out Of State & Out Of Mind - Ride the Grey Dolphin Line!"

This is the next incarnation of the greyhound. The blue facade,

crested into waves. We make out Lincoln and Ester, now looking

more like transients than tourists, dirty, worn and exhausted.

Low roof. Flat lighting. The faces here seem less threatening,

the young and the low-income. Lincoln and Ester look around. Not

unlike the train terminal. People standing in line, transacting.

Lincoln and Ester step up to the ticket window. A TICKET CLERK -

male, immaculately groomed - greets them with a polished smile.

Lincoln squints at him. Then wafts his hand across the counter.

The ticket clerk flinches at the impact. Then composes himself.

A trace of camp as he smiles bashfully at the rugged customer-

Lincoln nods, liking the sound of this. The ticket clerk smiles,

enjoying the acceptance of his suggestion, he ventures hopefully-

He gestures, then realizes Ester is gone from his side again.

He scans the faces. The clerk, disappointed, taps some keys.

A grill bar. A rank of vending machines. Ester moves through the

seating area as if drawn. Now over the ambient noise, we isolate

the cry of a baby. Ester is following the sound to its source.

She finds a Mexican woman shushing her infant. The woman looks

up and smiles. Ester just stands there, awe-struck. Lincoln now

comes up to reclaim her. He's about to ask why she wandered off

when she turns to him. He sees her eyes are brimming with tears.

Tears of joy and sorrow. It's the first time she's seen a baby.

The winged pig flutters over the doors of "Hog Heaven". The

milling customers are suddenly parted by Diggs, bursting out

through the doors. He leaps into the grey cutter, parked

kerbside. I t peels out with a flash of its halogen eyes.

B u r d o n steers, glancing inquisitively at his partner. Diggs taps

the holocom, urgently, galvanized. The holoframe resolves snowed

with static. Janeen's face appears. Less primped, disgruntled-

He grins at Burdon. The thrill of the chase glows in his eyes.

A blue glass partition wall looks out onto the depot. More like

a marina with an embarcadero a n d a row of docks. "Liners" slot

in and out, their nautical trim making them seem like ferries.

Lincoln and Ester sit waiting. Lincoln, rigid, watchful. Ester,

gazing across at the Mexican woman, who as the infant cradled

asleep. Ester glances wistfully at Lincoln. Then she frowns-

Lincoln turns, touching his face. He feels stubble there. For

the first time. His body is naturalizing but it feels unnatural

to him. Ester reaches out and runs her fingers across his cheek.

Lincoln stiffens a little, unused to this type of contact. But

her touch is gentle and the contact is warming. Their eyes

slowly meet, flickering, something passing between them. Then

Ester's face contorts slightly. She emits a shallow cough.

Ester clears her throat. But another cough follows.

E m p t y . The grill bar is closed. Only the vending machines are

active. Lincoln considers them. Not unlike those he used to

know. He finds one that offers water bottles. The sign reads

"Arctic Melt". He pulls out his blue card and looks for the

slot. Then pauses, picking up his reflection in the glass. He

examines the shadowy growth on his face. Then he notices his

eyes. They seem to be darkening. The pupils, welling open. Then

he feels it. The sense of danger, surging up like a geyser.

Ester sits waiting, anxious now, coughing persistently. Hearing

footfalls, she looks round. But the face that greets her is not

Lincoln. It's the pale man, the one who chased them. Before she

can react, he forcefully pulls her upright, tapping his earpiece-

Ester looks around in panic. Faces turn but none of them are

Lincoln's. Diggs confronts the spectators, flashing a badge -

He marches his female quarry towards the exit. Now she starts to

struggle and he jerks her back, slapping a cuff onto her wrist-

- T H U D - LINCOLN HAMMERS HIS FIST into the pale man as he turns -

dropping him, flat-on-his-ass - pulling Ester away from him -

D I G G S JERKS OUT THE RAINMAKER - quick to his feet - more insulted

than hurt - targeting his quarry - who suddenly duck down as--

- B O O M - DIGGS FIRES - A WOMAN SCREAMS - the Mexican woman - her

face, peppered with tranquilizer core - her baby starts crying--

Ester FROZEN - horrified by the screaming woman - the bloody,

slack grimace - the baby bawling - Lincoln dragging her down-

- B O O M - THE BLAST OF THE THUNDERBOLT - Burdon positioned behind

them - narrowly missing his target - hitting the partition wall -

- C R A S H - THE PARTITION WALL EXPLODES in a blinding electrical

discharge - shattering into a sudden TEMPEST OF GLASS SHARDS -

LINCOLN AND ESTER SPIN ROUND to see the pale man retargeting -

the dark giant reloading - exit blocked, they lunge towards --

T H E PARTITION WALL - kicking through the hole in the glass -

Ester's last glimpse of the screaming woman - the howling baby -

LINCOLN AND ESTER LEAP OUT onto the embarcadero - running -

faces blur past - liners flash by with glaring halogens--

D I G G S LEAPS OUT AFTER THEM - rainmaker poised - the embarcadero

g l u t t e d with passengers - he can't get a bead on his quarry--

LINCOLN AND ESTER VAULTING over the scattered luggage - the

crowd thinning - the canopy opening onto the street beyond--

D I G G S RIGHT ON THEIR TAIL - people screaming, parting as they

see his weapon - the firing line clearing - he levels aim and--

D i g g s sees his quarry now escaping. With a scowl, he complies.

He laces his fingers, tapping his earpiece in the process-

T H E GREY CUTTER VEERS ROUND A CORNER - Burdon at the wheel - his

quarry visible ahead - he jams the throttle - revs rising -

LINCOLN AND ESTER SPRINT UP THE SIDEWALK - disorientation - the

sudden diaspora o f lights and darkness - the sharp acoustics -

T R A F F I C SWERVING - CLAXONS B L A R I N G - the cutter hurtling up the

street, relentlessly - its halogen eyes, burning, growing -

LINCOLN AND ESTER RACING FOR THE END OF THE BLOCK - towards a

pedestrian bridge - trying to outpace the cutter -

T H E GREY CUTTER CLOSING - Burdon punching a button - the side

window slides open - he levels his thunderbolt, angling a shot-

LINCOLN AND ESTER VEER LEFT - up onto the pedestrian bridge -

rising above the traffic - claxons b l a r i n g beneath as --

T H E GREY CUTTER PLOUGHS INTO THE INTERSECTION - banking into a u-

t u r n - vehicles braking to avoid collision - LIGHTS, CLAXONS -

LINCOLN AND ESTER - turmoil raging behind them - a glimpse of

the cutter regaining pursuit - Lincoln sees an opening ahead--

LINCOLN PULLS ESTER INTO THE SHADOWS - the sidewalk narrowing -

they run onward, glancing off dumpsters - DULL BOOMS OF METAL -

A FLOOD OF HALOGENS - the cutter banking sharply into the alley -

pouring on the speed - the quarry trapped in its headlights--

LINCOLN AND ESTER - nowhere to run - THE LIGHTS GROWING - THE

RISING DRONE OF RESISTORS - Lincoln sees another opening --

LINCOLN PULLS ESTER INTO THE DARKNESS - a narrow access, barely

lit, hard to see - a sudden dead-end - they SLAM INTO A BARRIER--

A CHAINLINK F E N C E - the links shuddering - Lincoln looks up and

sees it's scalable - claws into the links - STARTS CLIMBING-

Ester TRYING TO CLIMB - rattled by coughing - fighting to

breathe - her limbs shaking - her muscles failing - then--

- B O O M - A BLINDING ELECTRICAL DISCHARGE - SUDDENLY THE FENCE IS

ALIVE WITH ELECTRICITY - BURNING FINGERS JITTER ACROSS THE LINKS-

LINCOLN AT THE TOP OF THE FENCE - jolted by the sudden shock -

muscles in reflex - falling - landing the far side of the fence--

Ester STILL CLIMBING - the jolt instantly toppling her back -

landing the near side of the fence - more rattled than hurt --

B U R D O N RUNNING TOWARDS THEM - thunderbolt smoking from the shot-

LINCOLN ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE FENCE - recovering from the fall--

Ester ON THE NEAR SIDE OF THE FENCE - cowering, coughing -

B U R D O N JERKS HER UP BY THE HAIR - like a rapacious viking - he

looks through the fence at Lincoln - sniffing her, almost bestial-

LINCOLN ' S EYES FLICKERING DARKLY - jaw clenching - the sense of

danger urging him to run - but Ester is in the giant's grips -

Ester CLAWING TO BREAK FREE - coughing, rasping - her fingers

snag on the giant's arm-brace - TUGGING WITH ALL HER STRENGTH--

B U R D O N YOWLING AT THE SUDDEN PAIN - lashing out - flinging Ester

into the fence - dropping the thunderbolt - CLUTCHING HIS ARM--

LINCOLN LEAPING ONTO THE FENCE - scrambling up the link - the

dark giant momentarily off-guard - HE VAULTS OVER THE TOP --

- T H U D - BURDON SPINS ROUND - takes the full brunt of Lincoln's

impact - overbalancing - THEY CRASH TO THE GROUND -

LINCOLN STRUGGLES UPRIGHT - winded, but forced to face the dark

giant - who is already on his feet, his mighty fist SWINGING OUT-

- T H U D - LINCOLN TAKES A PUNCH TO THE JAW - recoils, reciprocates

throwing a left hook - hitting hard but the giant barely flinches-

-THUD-THUD- BURDON POUNDS INTO HIM - a storm of punches - his

quarry, ducking and blocking - now backed up against the fence--

Ester RETRIEVING THE THUNDERBOLT - trying to work the mechanism -

coughing - hands shaking - accidentally touching the trigger -

- B O O M - THE SHOT BLASTS INTO THE AIR - enough of a distraction

for Lincoln - he lands the giant with A BONE-JARRING LEFT HOOK-

B U R D O N KEELS OVER INTO THE WALL - cracking the back of his head -

his knees buckling - sliding down - just catching sight of--

LINCOLN AND ESTER SCRAMBLING UP OVER THE FENCE - and then the

quarry is lost from sight in A DOWNPOUR OF ELECTRICAL SPARKS.

S I R E N S WAILING IN THE DISTANCE. Lincoln and Ester race down the

sidewalk, along a construction hoarding. Ester slows, doubling

over, rasping. Lincoln looks at her, her l i p s , blue, her face,

pale. The sirens, getting louder. He sees a gap in the hoarding-

Lincoln and Ester emerge through the gap onto a derelict tract.

A once public park, now a construction site. Mounds and craters

of earth. Dim shapes of huge vehicles, like sleeping dragons.

Patches of parkland, as yet untouched. Bowed palms, dead grass,

a stagnant lagoon, a dull mirror for the ascendant moon. On its

shoreline is a dilapidated construct that was once a boathouse.

The refuge of shadow. The collapsed   roof allowing streams and

puddles of moonlight. Lincoln helps     Ester onto a rotted bench.

She slumps down, exhausted, Lincoln     watches her, helplessly.

She's fighting for breath, wheezing     and coughing in deep rasps.

He looks around blindly. Some junk in the corner. He rummages,

finds a rusted metal box. Pries it open, empties the contents.

Gauzes, band-aids - evidently a first-aid box - then a bottle.

He opens it, sniffs. It smells pungent. Alcohol, not water.

Ester suddenly starts sobbing. Lincoln returns to her side-

The holoform l o g o of The Metro PD glows over the threshold.

Diggs exits with a dark glower. The cutter is waiting kerbside.

Diggs climbs in an Burdon steers out into traffic. The thrill

o f the chase is gone from them now. Both seem equally grim and

determined. Diggs taps the holocom. A holoframe resolves, snows

with static. Then Janeen's face appears, dishevelled, bitter-

O f f his icy tone, Janeen nods without retort. Diggs hits a key

and her face blinks out. And the cutter prowls into the night.

The winged pig flutters over the doors of "Hog Heaven". Another

franchise on a more downtrodden street. Lincoln emerges with a

bag of food and drink. He considers the blue card. The reservoir,

now close to the bottom, his resources almost exhausted. With a

look of foreboding, he pockets the card and turns the corner.

An d suddenly stops in his tracks. But it's not a vehicle that he

sees. Or a predator. His eyes are fixed on a holoframe billboard:

- - A football player in montage; pummeling into a defensive line;

running for a touchdown; gyrating in the endzone; spinning in an

NFL podium shot, super; "Nobody Stops The Juggernaut!"; a team

logo, super; "Come See The Phoenix Admirals! Rulers of the AFC!"

Lincoln recognizes the player's face but it's not possible. He

waits for the loop to restart. There it is again. The face of

Starkweather Two-Delta. Incredulous, he stops a pedestrian-

Lincoln doesn't respond. The pedestrian shrugs and heads on,

writing him off. Lincoln lingers, staring up at the billboard.

The flourish of music greets Lincoln as he enters. The cartoon

rattlesnake appears and smiles his clownish, fanged smile:

The set of text frames appears: "Residential Listings", "Business

Listings", "Transport Listings", "Hotel Listings".

A heavy pause. Lincoln's voice comes with a slight tremor.

The snake rattles and coils. Then a headshot a p p e a r s with the

face of Jamil Starkweather , scaled across with a red line.

Lincoln stands, darkly intent on the face. Now irrefutably the

same face he saw in his life below. The snake shakes its rattle-

Lincoln looks at the snake, flicking its tongue, coiling.

A downtrodden neighborhood. The buildings look like remnants from

our own era. A scruffy man slouches up to a gated storefront. He

slots a key into a lock panel and the gate rolls up, squealing.

We widen to a vehicle parked kerbside. A familiar grey cutter.

L i g h t s flicker on to disclose a gunshop. The array of firearms

a s fathomless as their purpose. The scruffy gunshop o w n e r slouches

inside. Diggs and Burdon enter on his heels. He yawns at them-

D i g g s displays two digital slides. The owner pauses, suspicious.

D i g g s answers by jerking out the rainmaker. The twin barrels

aimed at his head, the gunshop o w n e r loses his cool a little-

He displays a HUNTING KNIFE, unsheathing it, showing the blade.

D i g g s cocks the hammer. The owner flinches. Then, off the knife-

An apartment building towers overhead, vaguely ominous. Lincoln

approaches the entrance with Ester. We now see he has a band-aid

covering his crosshatch. He takes Ester briefly aside, teasing

some tresses over hers. As she gently smooths down her hair,

Ester catches his eye. A look flickers between them. Then-

A DOORMAN is looking at them like they just rolled out of a club

he wouldn't be seen dead in. Off their flustered looks, he gives

an apologetic smile. Then opens the door and holds it for them.

Lincoln reaches for Ester's hand. Then stiffly leads her inside.

The doors are set with small glowing orbs at peephole level. Like

eyeballs, watching, as Lincoln and Ester proceed up the corridor.

They stop at a door. Lincoln checks the number. Pauses heavily.

Then looks for some type of doorbell. As his eyes cross the orb,

it seems to blink. Then comes a sound of disengaging locks. Then

the door swings open. Lincoln flinches, taken by surprise. Then

frowns as he sees there is no one on the other side of the door.

Lincoln enters, wary, scanning around. A living room. Framed

pictures. A sofa, chairs. A coffee table, empty bottles,

cigarette packs, a full ashtray. A bureau, some paperwork.

Silence, stillness. No sign of life, no sense of danger. Lincoln

moves across to the bureau and starts leafing through the

papers. Ester ventures in through the door, curious-

Lincoln steps closer, pointing the knife. Tom tries to stay dead-

pan. The lawyer kicking in. Look them in the eye when you lie-

Lincoln looks at his double, reason now yielding to anger. Deep,

roiling. Tom looks at his agnate, fear welling, deadpan cracking-

Lincoln presses the tip of the blade to his double's cheek.

Lincoln inches the blade deeper into the trembling face, drawing

blood. The anger urging, hungry for more blood. Then suddenly-

Lincoln looks at her, the anger interrupted, the knife still in

place. He pauses. Then returns to his double. The dreading eyes,

the trickle of blood down the face. His e y e s . His f a c e . A long,

foreboding moment. Then suddenly Lincoln lashes out. His fist

sends his double flying, falling in a flurry of contract pages.

Lincoln stands over him, looking down, like a dominant species.

His double is unmoving, unconscious. Lincoln abruptly spins away.

The light panel flashes. Lincoln stands grimly, head lowered,

trying to fathom the anger roiling within. Ester stares at him,

wanly. Both held in the dark tableau. And the elevator descends.

The vehicle parked in bay 53 is a hybrid of sportscar a n d speed-

b o a t , a two-seater known as a "skiff". Lincoln and Ester climb

in. Lincoln reviews the drive console, the controls, all of it,

meaningless. His eyes cross an orb set in the steering wheel.

The orb seems to blink and suddenly the drive console lights up.

Lincoln reviews it. A screen in front of him is flashing:

"PILOTING: MANUAL/AUTO?". He assimilates. Then ventures-

The interface processes, then asks: "DESTINATION: NAME/ADDRESS?"

The interface processes, then reports "UNDOCKING". Lincoln and

Ester jolt as the skiff shunts forward. Lode-poles pulsing ahead

of them, the skiff moves out, as if pulled by a phantom tugboat.

The skiff buckets off the ramp into a street inlet. Then stops

rocking a little. The interface reports: "ESTABLISHING UPLINK".

On another screen, a road map appears. A red dot plants at their

point of origin then bleeds into a red line, plotting a course.

The autopilot scans for traffic, then nudges forward on the

throttle. The resistors drone, the steering wheel turns and the

skiff noses onto the street. Finding its lane, it drops to

cruise speed. Lincoln studies the interplay of steering wheel,

throttle and brake. Then glances at Ester. She's plunged in

thought, staring off. She turns to him with a haggard frown-

Lincoln looks at her blankly, unknowing. Ester stares off again,

her brow knotting with unanswered questions. But Lincoln's gaze

lingers. Her pale skin, her limpid eyes, her hair fluttering in

the breeze. It's the first time he's really seen Ester's beauty.

The domes and spires glint in the sunlight. We isolate a glass

steeple. A crosshatch insignia. A legend "Sanger Industries".

A corner office with a panoramic view of the city. Crowne sits

at a console desk, reviewing some data on a holoframe screen. A

knock on the door and HER SECRETARY enters, looking unsettled-

The skiff plunges into the shadow of an underpass. The interface

flashes: "UPLINK INTERRUPT... AUTOPILOT DISENGAGING". Lincoln

sits up, confused. The skiff is now slowing, drifting as if cut

loose. He studies the controls again. Positions one hand on the

steering wheel, the other on the throttle. Then he nudges it.

The skiff lurches, veering out of its lane. Another vehicle zips

narrowly past, rocking them with its invisible backwash. Ester

looks at Lincoln, suddenly alarmed. Lincoln tries again, firm on

the wheel, gentle on the throttle. And the skiff eases forward.

D i s m a l . The kind of place that precedes a life on the street. We

push in on a window, cracked glass, the drapes closed within.

G l o o m y , musty. A "holovision" plays some type of NFL recap. But

Scheer is not watching it. He is lying on the bed, staring at

the ceiling, motionless. Off a beeping sound, he stirs. He taps

a holocom on the nightstand. A holoframe appears, resolving:

The sunset melts gold across the horizon as the skiff cruises

westward. Eight lanes of lodeway rake through the salt flats.

Lincoln is driving more confidently now. Ester is huddled asleep

beside him. Suddenly the skiff starts to slow again. Lincoln

reviews the controls. Throttle, forward, foot, off the brake.

The interface flashes: "REMOTE LOCKDOWN E N G A G I N G " . The skiff is

steering itself onto the hard shoulder. It now pulls to a dead

halt. Ester is woken by the sudden inertia. She opens her eyes

and looks around. They've stopped in the middle of nowhere.

The sun sinks in a slow pink haze. Lincoln and Ester walk across

the salt flats. Visible in the distance is a walled settlement.

An adobe wall culminates at an arched wooden gateway. Lincoln

and Ester approach. They haven't walked far but Ester is already

short of breath. As they near the gateway a holoserve appears,

like a sentry - Native American, buckskins, feathered headdress

and facepaint. His voice seems as old as the wind-

Ester steps closer. With the sun hazing through, the holoserve

s e e m s angelic or ghostly. She's examining his striped facepaint-

She turns to Lincoln with a flowering smile. Then rushes up to

the gateway, suddenly galvanized, squeezing through a gap.

A ring of Native American pueblos. Pithouses a n d coursed adobes,

recreations and preserved ruins. Ester rushes around the ring,

looking into the pueblos as if expecting to find them inhabited.

She ducks into one of the pithouses. Lincoln follows her inside.

The mud walls show a skeleton of saguaro ribs, cholla branches.

It's cosy in here, dim. The living area, recreated with mats and

pottery. Lincoln finds Ester looking around, between excitement

and confusion. She turns to him, her voice wavering, wheezing-

Lincoln answers with a softly negating look. Ester's face slowly

falls, the energy draining from her eyes. She lowers onto one of

the mats and lies down, huddling. She looks up to him, wheezing-

Silence prevails but for the faint rattle of Ester's breathing.

Lincoln sits on low stool, in sentinel over her as she sleeps.

In his eyes, we see the weight of foreboding. He doesn't know

what they'll do when she wakes. Of a moaning sound he looks at

Ester. Then realizes it isn't coming from her. The sound is far

off, a rhythmic moaning. Now discernible as the chant of voices.

A blazing fire. Figures in silhouette, moving around, chanting.

The platform mound is situated just beyond the heritage park. An

ancient ceremonial site, stepped in ruins, dusted with caliche.

Pima and Maricopa, descendants of the Hohokam, are congregated

for a solstice ceremony. Off to the side, a group of horses are

tethered, shuffling, snorting. Lincoln approaches, cautiously,

but somehow like a moth to the flame. He stops at a distance,

watching. The curiosity of congruent sound and movement.

Lincoln turns to a figure emerging from the night. A tall man -

swarthy skin, mist-colored eyes. His tribal name is GREY DOVE-

Lincoln examines the tall man. The face seems as deep and gentle

as the voice. His sense of danger, unstirring, he concedes-

Lincoln sighs, the destination seeming very far away. Grey Dove

considers him. This bruised, weary outsider is somehow childlike.

The fire blazes across the face of a shaman. Old, gnarled, and

dry as the salt flats. With a sacred mutter, he slips a peyote

button onto his tongue. Then flings back his head, casting his

eyes to the stars. When he lowers his head again, we see his

pupils dilating. He rises, chanting, moving in ceremonial steps

around the fire. Tribespeople s i t in a ring, joining the chant.

Beyond the ring, others are dining at a roasting pit. Roast

rabbit. Cornflour bread. The food is as it might been two

thousand years ago. Only the sight of plastic water gallons

breaks the illusion. Lincoln stands apart with Grey Dove, eating

ravenously, gulping from a water gallon. He looks around-

Lincoln looks at him, puzzled. Grey Dove smiles tolerantly.

The shaman's chanting grows louder, more insistent. His circuit

around the fire becoming faster, building in religious fervor.

The shaman's chanting suddenly stops. He is looking directly at

Lincoln, pointing. His face, contorting with what might be anger

or fear. He starts babbling in dialect, ardently. Lincoln frowns

in confusion. Grey Dove quietly draws him away from the mound.

Ester stirs from slumber. On the ground beside her, she finds a

bowl of food and a water gallon. Now through the gloom, she sees

Lincoln, sitting on the stool like he never left, keeping vigil.

Something seems different about him as he turns, registering her-

Lincoln nods absently and stares off out of the doorway. Ester

moves closer, sensing something. He speaks as if from far away-

His voice cuts off. Ester looks at him, recognizing his pain.

She doesn't understand what it is or what caused it. It's pain

and it evokes a response in her. A feeling, taking her over. Her

hand reaches out and strokes his hair. Lincoln looks up at her,

questioning. With supreme knowing, Ester leans down and kisses

him. At the touch of her lips, Lincoln pauses. The first kiss

for both of them but Ester takes it in her stride. The calm

ballet of nature. Fluidly peeling off her shirt, breasts

steeping with moonlight. Lincoln rising to face her, feeling her

proximity, her radiant heat. His fingers touching her breasts.

Ester trembling, her lips once more finding his. Lincoln closing

his eyes, the rush of sensation, overwhelming. He yields to it,

returning the kiss, with hunger, with passion... with spirit.

The sun rises in the east, depicting the traffic in silhouette.

A vehicle arcs from the fast lane onto the hard shoulder where

the skiff sits abandoned. The grey cutter pulls to a halt.

D i g g s and Burdon move up on the skiff, cover positions, weapons

levelled. Burdon spins in to the driver side, snapping aim with

the thunderbolt. But the skiff is empty. The only sign of life

is the interface, flashing red: "REMOTE LOCATOR TRANSMITTING".

B u r d o n exchanges a look with Diggs. No dice. Diggs reaches in his

pocket and pulls out what looks like an electronic telescope. He

puts it to his eye and pans the salt flats. Burdon crouches at

the roadside, looking for tracks. Then Diggs fixes on something-

The fire is now reduced to a heap of embers. The tribespeople

a r e asleep around the mound, wrapped in ethnic blankets. Diggs

and Burdon move up stealthily, weapons at the ready. The horses

bristle and snort, betraying their approach. The tribespeople,

stirred by the noise, awake. Diggs and Burdon swing aim around

the ring as faces rise and stare at them. None of the faces have

white skin. Diggs lowers his weapon and addresses the gathering-

The tribal faces just keep staring. Diggs scowls. Then suddenly

swings aim with the rainmaker and fires. -BOOM- hitting one of

the horses in the haunch. It rears up, whinnying, setting off

the rest of the horses. Diggs turns back to the gathering-

He scans around the ring. Then fixes on one of the women. She

lifts a trembling finger to a man nearby. Grey Dove stiffens.

The sunrise depicts two silhouettes, moving across the ridge.

Lincoln and Ester clamber over the calcified rocks. Ester now

stops to catch her breath. She is wheezing again, fighting for

air. As Lincoln looks on with concern, she musters a brave smile-

A freight barge whooshes through the canyon, trailing a chain of

low, arched containers, capacious in width rather than height.

The conveyance is similar to a lodeway but wider, deeper, known

as a "lode-canal". At each end of the canyon, it intersects with

other lode-canals, converging to use the same passage, a system

of signals and lockgates controlling the flow of freight traffic.

High above, on the south rim of the canyon, we find Lincoln and

Ester. Ester is no longer wheezing but rasping. She looks down at

the passing vessel, daunted. Lincoln offers her small comfort-

They exchange a smile. The chain of containers tailing off, the

barge leaving the canyon with a blast of its resonant claxon.

Lincoln and Ester descend the rocky slope toward the lode-canal.

Ester stops, having to catch her breath every few steps. Lincoln

tries to hide his concern, looking away towards the sunrise. The

westbound vessel will be coming soon.

They just need to get out of state... Now he frowns, sensing

something. Faint but growing. His jaw clenches. His face

tightens. His pupils start to dilate.

The north ridge is evidently threaded by a lodeway as we see the

grey cutter pulling up. Diggs and Burdon get out and look down

into the canyon. Diggs pulls out his scope and starts panning.

Burdon peels off his jacket. It's early but it's already getting

hot. Diggs now pauses, handing him the scope for his opinion-

Lincoln and Ester hide in the shadow of a rock. Ester is muffling

her breaths as best she can. Lincoln now hazards a look over the

top. Two figures are climbing down the far side of the canyon,

now pointing in their direction. He ducks back, assimilating.

Hiding, no longer an option. Nor running, at least for Ester.

His face sets in a grimace of conviction. His eyes glow darkly.

Diggs and Burdon reach the foot of the rocks. Neither speaks,

communicating in hand-signals. Diggs slips into the lode-canal.

Burdon covers, sweeping the thunderbolt across the south face.

Diggs emerges from the far side of the lode-canal. He stays low,

moving up into the rocks. Then, from above, a rock dislodges,

rattling down. Diggs reacts instantly, targeting, opening fire-

- B O O M - B O O M - The shots from the rainmaker swathe across the rock.

The thunderbolt now adding to the barrage, Burdon firing from

the far side - SHOTS, BOLTS, KICKING UP A STORM OF DUST --

SUDDENLY HOLDING FIRE, waiting for the dust to clear, reloading.

No sign of movement. Just a slide of rubble. Fading echoes.

D I G G S STEALS ONWARDS UP THE ROCKS - into the fog of dust - the

sunlight and shadow playing tricks on his eyes - then suddenly-

LINCOLN BURSTS OUT OF THE DUST - from the left - tackling the

pale man - both of them toppling - tumbling down the slope --

THUDDING TO A HALT at the lip of the lode-canal - the rainmaker

lost in the fall - the impact throwing up a billow of dust --

THE DUSTCLOUD - Diggs and Lincoln struggling, clawing, punching -

Lincoln, with surprise on his side, gaining with the upper hand--

LINCOLN STANDS HORRIFIED - as the headless body is spun by the

moving wall - dropping into the trench as the barge tails off-

The westbound barge gains speed, leaving the canyon. But there

is Ester, running after it, vainly, coughing and sputtering.

Ester staggers a few more steps, then collapses to her knees,

rasping for breath. As Lincoln reaches her, she slumps back into

his arms. Her head lolling, eyes rolled back to white, a drool

of blood spilling from her lips. Then the blast of a claxon c u t s

the air as the westbound barge disappears into the distance.

A ranch home in the middle of nowhere. Long shadows.

Late golden sunlight through a mist of sawdust. Abstract wood

sculptures are visible. Juniper wood, carved along the bias of

the grain, polished to accentuate the curves of natural growth.

AN OLDER WOMAN runs a sander over a work in progress - 60's, in

coveralls, gray her tied back, her face shielded by goggles and

a bandana. She pauses to review her work, shutting down the

sander, slipping off her goggles and bandana. Her face is eerily

familiar. Her name is KATHERINE. She now moves to the window,

catching sight of something outside. Curiously, she watches a

vehicle coming down the long driveway. A dusty, grey cutter.

Katherine opens the front door. The cutter is now docked in the

port and a stranger is staggering towards her. In his arms, is

an unconscious woman. Now Katherine can see the face - younger,

but unmistakable even so. Her voice comes in a chilled whisper-

A whisper cuts across the glistening skyline towards The Sanger

Industries Tower. It circles in to land on a rooftop helipad.

Silence . Crowne sits at her desk. Merrick sits across from her.

Waiting. The air stirs as the secretary ushers Dr. Sanger into

the office. No greetings are exchanged. Sanger just lowers into

a chair, a little unsettled to find Merrick has preceded him.

S a n g e r crosses to the window, looking down onto the city.

A floral bedroom. Ester lies in bed, wheezing, semi-conscious.

Katherine slips a pill between her lips and tips in some water.

Lincoln stands watching. Katherine ushers him out of the room.

The kitchen is arrayed with modern technology but softened with

paintings and craftwork. A r t marginally overwhelming science.

Katherine starts making some herb tea in the traditional manner.

Katherine pauses, reality sinking its claws. She looks at him-

S c h e e r opens the door. Merrick stands at the threshold with an

attache case. Scheer, seemingly unsurprised, brings him inside.

Merrick lowers in a chair, grim and leaden. He opens his attache

and pulls out a contract folder. He hands it to Scheer.

S c h e e r leans forward, frowning, curious.

S c h e e r says nothing. Merrick reaches in the attache and pulls out

a case. Inside are a row of ampules and a pressure syringe-gun.

S c h e e r gives him a sideways look. Then displays the USMC ring.

Merrick allows a respectful pause, then-

A slant of light falls across Ester, writhing in her sleep,

rasping. Katherine and Lincoln peer in through the doorway,

checking on her. Then Katherine quietly closes the door.

Lincoln paces around, feeling useless. Katherine considers him-

A sleek low vehicle known as a "straker" pulls down the ramp.

The orbs on the doors eyeball Scheer, moving up the corridor. He

stops at a doorway. Rings the bell. Tom Lincoln opens the door-

T o m pauses then lets Scheer inside. He crosses to the wall safe,

taps the keys. Then pulls out the contract folder. He offers it.

S c h e e r accepts the folder. As Tom turns to close the safe, he

sets it down. And grabs Tom from behind, by the scalp, pressing

the syringe-gun into his jugular. A HISS. Tom clutches his throat

like it's on fire. With a boiling gurgle, he staggers forward.

Sweating, collapsing. Convulsing, belching steam. Then falling

slack. His skin starts to smolder. Scheer pauses, then tosses

t h e contract folder on top of him, leaving it to burn with him.

E s t a b l i s h i n g . A clean facade of white steel and glass. A hatch-

b a c k vehicle known as a "corsair" pulls down the parking ramp.

The corsair pulls up at the ER entrance, Lincoln at the wheel.

Katherine gets out of the passenger side. A doctor is waiting -

50's, caring face. His name is DR. ABRAMS. He looks curiously at

the man at the wheel. Then greets Katherine with a hug -

She opens the rear door of the corsair. Ester is lying on the

back seat. Dr. Abrams frowns as he notices the resemblance.

The straker p u l l s up into the port.

The shadow of Scheer moving outside the windows, looking for a

point of entry. He inspects the studio door for alarms. Then

elbows the glass. Reaching inside, turning the lock. He enters

the studio, glancing at the sculptures. Moving through the home.

S i l e n t l y , systematically, checking the rooms. He reaches the

guest bedroom, looks around. Something catches his eye. Spots of

blood of the linens. Eyes honing, he moves on into the kitchen.

He discovers a holocom keypad on the counter. Taps some keys.

The holoframe flashes "REDIALLING". The holoframe snows with

static. Then a receptionist's face appears-

Lincoln stands waiting. There are chairs but he's too tense to

sit. Katherine and Dr. Abrams now enter. Lincoln looks at them,

expectantly. There's a pause. Then Dr. Abrams speaks-

Lincoln lowers into a chair. He feels a pain somewhere. He can't

quite pin down where. Or what caused it. Or why it hurts so bad.

Ester lies in bed, dozing, looking more relaxed. Her oxygen mask

makes breathing easier. Lincoln enters and sits beside her. She

stirs, meeting his eye with a faint smile. Lincoln returns it-

She sits up, lowering her mask. Her hand finding his.

Lincoln nods. A pause. Ester continues, more troubled, wheezing-

Ester ' s out of breath again, coughing. Lincoln helps her put the

oxygen mask back over her mouth. Ester slumps back, relaxing.

Off Lincoln's worried look, she smiles at him with her eyes-

But even to his own ears, the affirmation sounds hollow.

The stream of water gushes into Lincoln's hands. He splashes his

face. Then looks at himself in the mirror. He looks sallow from

sleeplessness. The facial hair makes him look like a shadow of

his former self. For an instant he tenses at a light blinking in

the glass. Blue light. Like etherscreen. Then he sees it's just

a humidifier on the far wall. Tension ebbing, he splashes some

more water. When he looks up again, he sees his pupils are

dilating. The sense of danger. His voice comes in a cold whisper-

Lincoln emerges from the restroom, scanning for the danger's

source. Figures flash past in scrubs, white coats. Then he sees

it. The figure emerging from the elevator. The face of Scheer...

A flurry of disturbance from the nurses as someone barges into

the room. Dr. Abrams is prepping Katherine for the transfusion.

Off the ruckus, he looks up. Lincoln comes up to them, urgently-

Lincoln look to see Ester, asleep on the OR table beyond.

Katherine , understanding, simply nods. Lincoln takes a last look

at Ester, then departs. Dr. Abrams, bemused, turns to Katherine-

Lincoln moves up the corridor, purpose in his stride. His black

gaze fixed on Scheer, making an inquiry at the nurse's station.

Lincoln doesn't even break stride. He GRABS SCHEER FROM BEHIND--

H U R L I N G HIM ACROSS THE NURSE STATION - INSTANT CONFUSION -

NURSES RUNNING - PEOPLE SHOUTING - Lincoln takes off at a run--

SCHEER RECOVERING - seeing his quarry through the confusion - no

time for subtlety - he leaps over the nurse's station - pursuing-

LINCOLN pauses at the emergency exit - checking to see his enemy

is following - then pushing on through the doors into--

LINCOLN HAMMERS DOWN THE STEPS - an alarm sounding - shouting

from beyond - FOOTFALLS BEHIND HIM - deeper into the gloom-

S C H E E R VAULTING THE RAIL - shortcutting t h e flights of steps -

catching sight of his quarry as he pushes through a door into--

LINCOLN BURSTS OUT INTO THE PARKING LOT - flashes of light -

vehicles pulling in and out - off across the parking docks -

S C H E E R BURSTS OUT IN HIS WAKE - his quarry temporarily lost -

now spotting him across the lot - leaping into a vehicle -

LINCOLN FIRES UP THE CORSAIR - resistors droning - jamming the

throttle - lurching out - NARROWLY MISSING ANOTHER VEHICLE -

S C H E E R SPINNING ROUND as the corsair blurs past - it's heading

for the exit ramp - he launches towards the straker -

T H E CORSAIR BURNS UP the parking ramp - SMASHING THE GATE ARM -

plunging out into the street - bouncing across the lodestream -

T H E STRAKER H U R T L E S UP close behind - into the snarl of traffic -

steering expertly through - picking up the tail of the corsair -

T H E CORSAIR PLOUGHS UP THE STREET - TRAFFIC SWERVING out of its

path - BUOYS CLANGING as it lurches from one lane to the next -

LINCOLN JAMS THE THROTTLE - the resistors buzzing, growling with

energy - he has one goal - draw his enemy away from Ester -

S C H E E R COOLLY INTENT at the controls of the straker - keeping a

certain distance - waiting for his quarry to make a mistake --

A METRO PD OFFICER PULLS OUT - mounted on a hybrid of motorbike

and jetski k n o w n as a "lode-runner" - SOUNDING THE SIREN--

S C H E E R REACTING - the PD lode-runner pulling ahead of him - he

can't allow a police intervention - he slips in behind --

THE METRO PD OFFICER - darting looks back - headlamps b l i n d i n g

his rear-view - another vehicle is coming up behind him fast -

- C L A N G - THE STRAKER I M P A C T S - glancing the PD lode-runner which

wobbles, corrects - the straker d r o p s back for a longer run up--

T H E METRO PD OFFICER - yelling into his headset - inaudible over

the siren - the headlamps a g a i n - the vehicle coming up behind--

- C R A S H - THE PD LODE-RUNNER fishtails - its resistors suddenly

clash with the prevailing polarity - A HUGE JOLT OF INERTIA-

C A T A P U L T I N G THE METRO PD OFFICER through the air - plummeting

down into obscurity - THE STRAKER W H O O S H I N G OVER HIS HEAD -

T H E PD LODE-RUNNER LEFT SPINNING behind - resistors vying with

the polarity - the drive system melting down - FUSING, SPARKING--

- B O O M - THE PD LODE-RUNNER EXPLODES IN A FLASH OF ELECTRICAL FIRE-

S C H E E R watches the fireball in his rear-view - there will be more

police soon - he jams the throttle - he has to end this.

LINCOLN SEEING THE STRAKER Z O O M I N G UP BEHIND - veering round

another corner - the chassis tilting - A STEEP BANKING TURN -

T H E CORSAIR HULL RUNNERS THUDDING across the buffers - recoil

sending the chassis up against the concrete - SPARKS FLYING--

S C H E E R TURNING THE CORNER - the windshield suddenly sprayed with

sparks - jerking back on the throttle to avoid a collision -

LINCOLN FIGHTING TO CORRECT THE STEERING - seeing the straker

d r o p p i n g back - a chance to gain distance - JAMMING THE THROTTLE-

A N INTERSECTION APPROACHING - Lincoln can't correct his steering

in time - the corsair careens at full res over the intersection--

C R A S H I N G THROUGH A GATE ARM - the ground dropping away into a

steep ramp - suddenly the corsair is flying through the air--

C R A S H I N G - SQUEALING ONWARDS - SCUDDING ACROSS VEHICLE ROOFS,

finally nose-diving into an empty bay with a DEAFENING CRUNCH-

The straker p u l l s up at the smashed gate arm. In the booth, a

holoserve p a r k i n g attendant greets the arrival with a smile-

Scheer gets out of the straker. He looks down at the crashsite

b e l o w . The parking lot, like a marina, is filled to capacity. A

game is in progress. A corona of light coming from the stadium.

Hoots, music, the roaring crowd. Over which, sirens can now be

heard. Scheer draws the syringe-gun and heads down the ramp.

D u s t blooms from the crashsite. S c h e e r crouches, peering down at

the wrecked corsair. The burst windshield, the dangling driver

side door shows his quarry has escaped the wreckage. He rises

and scans around. On the concrete, a trail of blood is visible.

The blood trail leads down a gloomy stairwell. The game is just

audible overhead. Lincoln stumbles down the steps, clutching his

bleeding arm. Between pain and concussion, he loses his footing

and falls. He tumbles down the remaining steps to the bottom.

I n the gloom we   see groundskeeping e q u i p m e n t , supplies - edgers,

aerators, spray    rigs, drums of insecticides, herbicides. For a

moment, Lincoln    lies stunned. Then hears a noise and rolls over.

He looks up the    stairwell. A shadow is descending towards him.

W i t h painful effort, Lincoln starts crawling across the floor,

eyes fixed on the shadow. Tensing as A HANDGUN noses out of the

darkness. Then A STADIUM SECURITY GUARD steps into the light -

N o w he sees Lincoln more closely - injured, his arm bleeding.

Lincoln eases a little as he sees the security guard lower his

weapon. Then suddenly the guard is JERKED BACK BY THE SCALP.

A HISS. Now suddenly the guard jettisons the handgun, clutching

his throat like it's on fire. With a boiling gurgle, he staggers

forward. Streaming with sweat. Toppling across a herbicide drum.

Convulsing, belching steam. Then suddenly his body falls slack.

S c h e e r is at the foot of the steps, discarding the spent ampule

from the syringe-gun. Now screwing a fresh ampule into place.

Lincoln turns to him, realizing what he's just witnessed is a

glimpse of his own fate. He pushes himself upright, bracing.

S c h e e r looks at him. Clutching his bloody arm, barely able to

stay upright, but still ready to fight for life. He half-smiles-

Lincoln holds his gaze, looking deep in his eyes. Then, as if

scared by what he sees there, starts inching away, glancing at--

T H E GUARD'S BODY SMOLDERING - lowering, melting through the drum-

S C H E E R MOVING FORWARD, the smile leaving his face. A mask of

hollowness as he moves in on his quarry, the syringe-gun poised.

LINCOLN STUMBLING - collapsing to his knees - hanging his head

as if in surrender... then suddenly his hand flies up-

- B O O M - A FLASH OF LIGHT as he fires THE HANDGUN - recovered from

the ground - AN ENERGY PULSE impacting the wall, fizzling out--

S C H E E R KEEPS COMING, syringe-gun ready, blank-faced, unflinching-

T H E GUARD'S BODY CRACKLING INTO FLAME - the drum splitting open--

- B O O M - ANOTHER FLASH - Lincoln fires again - clipping his enemy--

S C H E E R KEEPS COMING, a charred wound in his shoulder, relentless-

T H E GUARD'S BODY BURNING - sliding into the sands of herbicide -

- B O O M - B O O M - B O O M - LINCOLN KEEPS FIRING - more hits than misses--

S C H E E R KEEPS COMING, blank faced, his body PITTING WITH IMPACTS--

A BLINDING FLARE OF LIGHT - THE HERBICIDE IGNITING - THE DRUM

EXPLODING - STARTING A CHAIN REACTION - OTHER DRUMS IGNITING -

EXPLODING - FIRE - SMOKE - ENGULFING ALL IN A BLAZING INFERNO...

A cacophony of sirens can be heard outside. A thick grey smoke

gulches up from the stairwell. Shadows are visible. The sound of

extinguishers. A FIREMAN climbs up, emerging from the smoke, he

pulls off his breathing mask to address a waiting PD officer-

P e a c e . Sunlight. A bell tolling in the background. We make out

Katherine, dressed in black, standing at a grave. The headstone

reads simply: "Here Lies Ester & Her Unborn Son - May They Rest

In Peace". There are no dates. Katherine lays down some flowers

then looks across at Dr. Abrams. As he escorts her away, we see

Crowne crossing towards them. She introduces herself delicately-

A celestial penthouse office. Katherine enters with Crowne.

Merrick and Dr. Sanger rise to greet her. Strained solemnity.

His insincerity is transparent. Katherine just nods stiffly.

M o r e insincerity. Katherine nods again. Then settles in a chair.

Crowne allows a respectful pause. Then begins with due delicacy-

Katherine descends the steps from the entrance. She crosses to a

black funeral sedan, parked kerbside. D r . Abrams stands waiting-

C r o w n e escorts Sanger and Merrick to the waiting whisper.

She shakes their hands as they climb into the whisper. Then

watches it take off, ascending into the blinding sunlight.

A i r blasts up from the giant funnel. Widening, we re-establish

the huge ring, the processing plant, the giant appendages of

ducting, the immutable red rocks. The shot sequence, reprising.

From the processing plant, over the main complex. From the front

of the complex, to the dock.

Following the lodeway out to the perimeter wall. The gateway now

gliding open to disclose a view of the shimmering desert. Out in

the distance, the institute liner emerging from the shimmer. The

crosshatch insignia.

T h r o u g h the polarized glass we see the liner has docked. A TOUR

GROUP is disembarking. Another parade of plutocracy, aging

bloated me and brittle young women. They filter inside to be

greeted by the courtesy staff, led by the ever-perky LYDIA.

The tour group pick and mingle at a buffet. We isolate a

casually dressed man, lightly bearded, in a Phoenix Admirals

cap, crossing to Lydia. She turns to greet him with a smile-

The man tilts up to reveal his face. We see he is LINCOLN...

Lincoln moves quickly along the wall towards the back of the

complex. Hugging the shadows, scanning for onlookers. There is

the processing plant and there, the ring of funnels. The sight

brings a sudden rush of memories, painful memories, horrors.

Lincoln steels himself, then breaks from shadow and races for

the nearest funnel. He makes a running lap. His fingers grab

t h e lip of the funnel and he pulls himself up. Reaching the lip,

he finds the funnel mouth has been gridded o v e r . Then he hears-

Lincoln lowers back to the ground. He finds himself facing A

TECHNICIAN in a hardhat. His uniform reads "Air Processing".

The doors slide open and the technician enters, stiffly. Then

suddenly topples forward, pistol whipped from behind. Lincoln

enters the elevator, a familiar handgun clenched in his fist.

L o o k i n g up an elevator shaft. The red pulse of the lode-poles,

rippling downward as the elevator descends from the surface.

Lincoln is now wearing the technician's uniform. He watches the

panel lights flashing down. "Level 3: Harvest" "Level 5: Labor

Decon", "Level 7: Labor Quarters". His pupils are dilating but

his face is set with determination. He knows what he must do.

His gaze drifts down to "Level Twenty: Agnate Containment".

The holographic rendering of containment spins in the vaulted

chamber like a giant geometrical phantom. The ether blinks with

blue dots in their hundreds as the agnates g o about their day.

O v e r l o o k i n g the ether, Ethercon sits at his console. The hiss of

an opening door as someone enters. Ethercon looks round. He

greets the technician's arrival with an inquisitive look. Then

the technician takes off his hardhat. A crosshatch on his brow.

Ethercon reacts almost instantly, reaching for the console. Then

instantly freezes as Lincoln presses the handgun to his skull.

P a l e blue light. Ethercon leads the way down a silent corridor.

Lincoln follows him, the handgun firmly levelled on his head.

The pale blue light sustains. The chamber is reminiscent of the

foundation chambers. The walls lined with tanks. But instead of

amber fluid, these contain blocks of ice. Beside each tank is a

grid of bio-monitors. E t h e r c o n stumbles into frame, prodded by

Lincoln. Then, with a trembling finger points to one of the

tanks. Lincoln holds aim on him and considers the glass facet.

He wipes the condensation off the glass. Suspended in the block

of ice is a shadow. A human figure. A device is attached to his

stomach. Lincoln looks at the bio-monitors. A screen reads:

" P R O D U C T ID: STARKWEATHER/ FOUNDATION: II/ GENERATION: DELTA".

Lincoln looks across the EKG, the cardiograph, indications that

Starkweather is still alive. Then he fixes on the RFI m o n i t o r . A

resonant image of the brain. The shifting aura showing a level of

consciousness. What thoughts must be going through that mind?

The fate of the agnates s p a r e d from expiration. To be kept on

i c e for future harvest. With a haggard look, Lincoln rests his

hand on the glass where Starkweather hangs frozen. Connecting.

An embryo in mutated effigy hangs suspended in the amber fluid.

Dr. Sanger stands at the wall of display tanks, mid-way through

his sales pitch. He delivers it now with noticeably less gusto-

S u d d e n l y he clutches his arm, emitting a guttural gasp.

S a n g e r just looks at her. Then jolts from a spasm, clawing at

his chest. His knees buckling, he topples against a display

case. Pawing at the glass, he slides dreadfully to the ground.

The tour group keeps their distance, unsettled by the face of

mortality. Sanger is now lying in contortion on the floor, his

gaping eyes fixed on the display tank. The embryo in mutated

effigy, rocking about in the amber fluid. The sight of this

little human monster is one that will follow him to the grave.

The glass wall looks down on the avenue and the agnates m i l l i n g

beneath. Merrick sits at his console. Business as usual. Off a

buzz, he taps a button. The door opens and A CENSOR bursts in-

Merrick taps another button and the glass wall frosts over. It

pixellates o n t o an image of his own face. A recorded playback-

P / B J U M P CUT TO: STARKWEATHER RUNNING IN AN ULTRAVIOLET HAZE,

MEETING WHITE UNIFORMS, ZIGZAGGING OVER CROSSWALKS, DOWN RAMPS.

P / B J U M P CUT TO: STARKWEATHER RUNNING FOR HIS LIFE, LURCHING

FROM IMPACTS, HOOKHEADS B I T I N G INTO HIS BACK, SPRAYING BLOOD-

P / B J U M P CUT TO: STARKWEATHER DANGLING IN MID-AIR LIKE A FISH ON

A HOOK -- SCHEER LOOKING UP AT HIM LIKE A CURIOUS ZOO EXHIBIT.

P / B J U M P CUT TO: STARKWEATHER CLUMPING DOWN A CORRIDOR,

C L U T C H I N G HIS OPEN STOMACH, BLOOD STREAMING DOWN HIS LEGS.

P/B J U M P CUT TO: CENSORS SHROUDING STARKWEATHER'S FACE WITH A

WHITE HOOD -- BINDING HIS WRISTS AND ANKLES IN PLASTIC CUFFS --

P / B J U M P CUT TO: CENSORS DRAGGING STARKWEATHER AWAY. THE LOOP OF

INTESTINE PLUMPING FROM HIS BELLY. THE BLOODSMEAR O N THE FLOOR.

I N T E R C U T T I N G : Agnates a t workstations watching on visors. In the

subway watching on platform banner. In the plaza watching on the

glass wall. An agnate in an apartment, watching on a wall panel.

P / B J U M P CUT TO: A STILL IMAGE OF STARKWEATHER'S STORAGE TANK.

T H E BLINKING GRID OF BIO-MONITORS. T H E SHADOW IN THE BLOCK OF ICE.

We are still   in the apartment when the playback cuts out. The

agnate looks    around as every piece of glass dissolves to trans-

parency. The    mirror panels, the frosted walls, the window, which

now shows no    view at all. Just the gleam of a holographic lens.

Merrick looks down from the glass wall at the agnates m a s s e d in

the avenue beneath. They are all looking directly up at him.

Alarms sounding. The ether grid blinking with red dots. Ethercon

sitting frozen at the console, the handgun pressed to his head.

Lincoln stands over him. His face cast in a chill of vengeance.

A glass facade. A noise from within. A primal, guttural noise,

building to a roar. Now warping as we drop to slow motion. The

glass webbing, bursting open from within, the facade exploding

in a GLITTERING SHOWER OF SHARDS...

No windows. No clue of where we may be. A safehouse somewhere.

The passage of time is marked on Lincoln's face, careworn, long

hair, a full beard. He sits in front of a data tablet, his image

recorded on its screen. His voice also seems older as he speaks-

He sits back, contemplating the screen with an air of closure.

Then he stirs at a sound. At first just a gurgle. Then a moan.

Becoming the sound of A BABY CRYING. Lincoln crosses to a cot.

He lifts up a baby boy, 6 months old, bawling and squirming.

Ester steps into the room, sleep-mussed, her beauty deepened by

maternity. The baby reaches out for her. Lincoln hands him over-

She lovingly kisses him. Lincoln smiles at her, then the baby,

sweeping the hair from the forehead. Unscarred, blemishless.

A private jetty stretches out to a pile of supply canisters. A

yacht is moored. We recognized it as John's boat. And we recognize

Katherine, holding the baby as Lincoln and Ester finish loading.

The last canister stowed, Lincoln comes up to her. He smiles at

the sight of her with the baby. Then prompts her gently-

Katherine hesitates, part of her unwilling to let the baby go.

Then she plants a lingering kiss on his downy hair and lets

Ester take him. Lincoln presents her with the data tablet-

He smiles. Katherine points to a canister left on the dock.

Katherine nods, understanding. Nothing more to say, she hugs him.

Then turns to Ester with the baby. She folds them in a yearning,

almost maternal embrace. Tears well in her eyes. Then the sorrow

turns to laughter as the baby starts tugging at her gray hair.

The sun rises in the east, casting the coastline in silhouette.

The light glows across Lincoln's face, at the helm of the yacht,

staring back to the shore. He looks at Ester sitting beside him,

the baby swaddled in a blanket at her breast. Then he looks out

to the west, to the soft reach of dawn and the boundless horizon

of sea. There never was an island. But perhaps there will be...

