I/E. BACKYARD - SUBURBAN HOUSE - JUDY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

POV of a HOME VIDEO CAMERA shooting into the window of

teenage girl's bedroom.

The door inside opens. In walks JUDY OAKS-KELLEN (18), a

blond haired, mousy girl, wearing only a T-shirt and panties.

As she heads to the mirror we hear...

Sound of skin smacking against skin and heavy breathing.

Whoever operates the camera is definitely CHOAKIN' THE

GOPHER.

Judy combs her hair in the mirror, oblivious.

The camera operator is in a whack off frenzy as he...

He's climaxed.

The sounds have stopped, but the tape keeps rolling.    Judy

stops combing her hair as...

Camera shuts down.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - THE TRACK - DAY

Camera shoots from inside a car hidden camera style as Judy

runs laps during her gym class. Judy, again, has no idea

that she is being filmed as camera zooms in tight.

She's tired, sweating profusely, and looks completely

miserable. She stops running, exhausted, as the other kids

pass her.

Suddenly, a very Butch looking female GYM TEACHER (40) walks

over and begins BERATING Judy. The Gym Teacher's face turns

red as she spews insults inches away from Judy's face.

We can't hear what she's saying, but whatever it is, it's

cruel, harsh, and very intense. Exhausted and humiliated,

Judy holds back tears as...

Camera shuts down.

I/E. JIMMY'S HOUSE - BACKYARD/KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM - DUSK

Late summer evening. Camera Operator wipes dirt from the

lens with his shirt revealing his face for the first time as

he looks at camera. This is the first time we get even a

glimpse of JIMMY WRIGHT (21). His looks are striking, even a

bit awkward, but not at all unappealing.

He throws a mischievously evil look at the lens, then settles

his face back to normal. He spins the camera away, pointing

it at the back of his house.

Through the kitchen window, Jimmy zooms in on his mother

(JIMMY'S MOM) (40's) idyllic version of a mom in new

millennium suburban housewife clothes. She's on the phone,

preparing dinner.

Camera whips over to JIMMY'S DAD in the LIVING ROOM, well

dressed, rich looking and fat in his late 40's, watching

baseball on TV, tired after a long day's work. He drinks

from a tumbler of expensive scotch neat with an ice cube,

munching on mixed nuts from a crystal bowl.

Dad reaches into his pants to give his balls a good scratch.

Jimmy gives the play by play like a baseball announcer.

Eyes on the TV, Dad takes his hands out of his pants and

sniffs them.

Satisfied, Dad reaches in and grabs a handful of nuts as he

continues to watch TV. We zoom out to see both Mom and Dad,

each through different windows.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dark and in silhouette, Jimmy flips on the camera by remote.

It's too dark to see faces or bodies with any detail, but

Jimmy's clearly having sex with a PROSTITUTE in his bed. She

is young, black, and looks very much like a prostitute.

As he pounds into her...

By remote, Jimmy shuts down the camera.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy's behind   the camera interviewing the Prostitute who

sits up in his   bed holding the sheets to cover herself. With

the lights on,   we can see that she's clearly unattractive.

Jimmy asks his   questions with a gentle confidence.

She pauses. You can tell she just wants to leave, but is

toughing it out for the extra fifty bucks.

Long pause.

Long, awkward pause.      Jimmy Doesn't know what to say.

No reply from Jimmy.

No answer.

They pause.

Jimmy speaks softly and confidently.

The prostitute finds Jimmy's answer endearing.

Pause.

Prostitute looks bored/frustrated again.

Jimmy doesn't react.

Camera turns off.

I/E. HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY

Jimmy hides hidden camera style inside his car in the high

school parking lot, bleachers in the distance. School is

letting out as he zooms in on Judy.

She's looking at the ground as she's taunted by a group of

Other Harassing Teenagers, a tear streaming down the side of

her cheek.

Suddenly, Judy is bashed in the face with a school bag. She

falls to the ground, then picks up her broken glasses as

camera zooms out to catch the Girl who hit her (Mean Girl).

Nearby, a big, Dumb Looking Bully Type (18) taunts her as she

cries. His taunts are biting and as excessive as the Mean

Girl's, then he dumps a cup of soda on Judy's head as she's

crying.

Judy screams at the top of her lungs. The group runs off

laughing. Jimmy whip pans to the Mean Girl as she laughs

with her friends, then whips pans back to Judy, now on her

feet, blood running from her nose and onto her white shirt.

Camera shuts down.

I/E. JUDY'S HOUSE - JUDY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A scene we've seen before. Jimmy is off camera videotaping

Judy through her bedroom window. We hear him FLOGGIN' THE

DOLPHIN off screen while Judy combs her hair in the mirror.

She stops when she hears...

A Grown Man, (45), walks into the doorway of her bedroom.

This is JUDY'S DAD. He comes in and doesn't say a thing to

her. Judy doesn't acknowledge him at all and continues

combing her hair as though he's not even there.

He comes up behind her, then wraps his arms around her,

giving her a warm hug from behind. Something's not right.

The masturbation sounds STOP.

Judy's noticeably uncomfortable but doesn't resist as her

Father begins kissing her neck. His hand slowly creeps down

to her pelvic area, his other hand turning out the bedroom

light. The room goes dark.

Camera flips down, then OFF...

Then COMES BACK ON AGAIN

Once again we're looking through the camera pointing at the

window, but now it's the distorted, grainy, black and white

of "Nite Shot" mode. Though we see the Judy's mirror and her

dresser, she and her Father are nowhere to be found.

Whatever's going on between them, it's going on out of frame,

away from the view of the window. Camera shuts down.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy films once again, hidden camera style, long lens from

far away. Frame is close on Judy sitting at the dining room

table.

As camera pulls back, we HEAR but don't see Judy's Parents

talking to Jimmy's Mom and Dad at the table. Judy is bored,

completely uninterested in their conversation.

Judy looks over at camera, catching the fact that she's being

videotaped. Jimmy keeps filming.

As Jimmy zooms in, she clandestinely flips off the camera.

Judy gets up.   Her mom stops her.

As Judy leaves the table she walks towards camera as it shuts

down.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Judy sits on Jimmy's bed, staring into the camera.   She's

uncomfortable sitting there. It's poorly framed.

Camera shuts off.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Jimmy films Judy again, better framing this time.      Judy looks

annoyed and uncomfortable in front of the camera.

Jimmy takes delight in Judy's displeasure of being filmed.

Judy wants to go and then doesn't.

Judy fidgets, he's got her.

She's waiting for a response.    Jimmy doesn't bite.

Jimmy waits.   Judy's curious how he'll respond.

Jimmy waits, assessing the situation.

Judy looks up at the camera.   Before she can answer, camera

shuts down.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Judy sits on the edge of Jimmy's bed facing a television set.

Jimmy films from behind her so he gets Judy's back and the

television in the shot. The screen is static.

Nothing's happening.   Judy's getting antsy.

Jimmy clicks the VCR with his remote, as Judy turns back to

watch. On TV, static flips to black.

A few seconds.   Nothing on TV yet.

An image flips on the TV.

BEGIN JIMMY'S REVENGE TAPE

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - TEACHER'S PARKING LOT - (ON JIMMY'S TV) -

DAY

Someone (Jimmy) has placed the camera on the ground and is

facing a car in a parking lot at school.

Jimmy enters frame and punches a Butterfly Knife into the

sidewall of Mrs. Holzclaw's car sending air HISSING as the

tire sinks.

Tape cuts to...

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - ENTRANCE (ON JIMMY'S TV) - DAY

On TV, hidden camera style (long lens from a distance) the

Dumb Looking Bully Type (Bill McAllister) is taken out of

school in cuffs into a waiting Squad Car.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - ENTRANCE (ON JIMMY'S TV) - DAY

Same location, different day. On TV, again hidden camera

style, a girl is being rolled out of the school on a

stretcher. It's the Mean Girl, the one who smacked Judy in

the face with her school bag.

She's placed into an ambulance.

Jimmy clicks the television set off with his remote.

END JIMMY'S REVENGE TAPE

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - DAY

The TV is off. All we see is Judy's back. She hasn't once

turned around to face the camera during any of the clips.

She sits still.

She trembles but doesn't turn around. She collects herself

but still doesn't turn around. Jimmy holds the camera

steady.

Still she doesn't turn around.

She fidgets in her seat but still doesn't turn around.

She now sits still on the edge of the bed like she is in a

trance, but still doesn't turn around to face the camera.

No movement.

No movement.

No movement.

She begins to breath heavily.

Then no movement.

She leans her head down towards the floor.

Then no movement.

Still no movement or any reaction for that matter.   It's like

she is in a trance and can't wake up.

Jimmy (O.C.) continues to roll without budging.

Still no movement.

It looks like she's about to turn around. She moves her head

in the direction of the camera, then assumes her original

position facing the TV.

Then... no movement.

Still no movement.

Then Judy collapses onto the bed. Jimmy, still rolling, gets

off the bed and begins filming her as she lies on the floor

crying hysterically.

Judy cries and cries and cries and cries. She then lets out

a cry from the depths of her soul. The cry is long, hard,

and loud.

Jimmy gets up, then stands above her with the camera.

She rolls over on her back and is now facing directly into

the camera. She tries to collect herself.

Judy tries hard to stop, but just sobs harder and louder than

before.

A muffled voice comes through the door from downstairs.

Judy stops, realizing suddenly that she's been screaming.

Camera shuts down.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - STAIRWAY/ENTRYWAY/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy's behind the camera. He stands at the head of the

stairs shooting down. Sounds of a dinner party just getting

started come from downstairs. He walks down the steps into

the party.

A generic "Happy Twentieth Anniversary" sign hangs above the

front door. Camera pans awkwardly to a lame K-Mart style

studio portrait on the wall. It's Jimmy's parents wearing

saccharine sweet smiles, Dad's hair slicked back, Mom in an

overdone hair-do and in way too colorful clothing.

Gifts sit on the entry-way table. Party Guests are dressed

nicely and are mingling in the house, drinks in hand. Dinner

is yet to start. As Jimmy moves into the...

ENTRY-WAY

People at the party all turn to camera, a look of shock on

their faces as Jimmy walks through.

More and more people react with gasps and revulsion at

camera, but we can't tell why. Jimmy moves camera to the...

LIVING ROOM

The place is full of More Party Guests. Frame moves across a

huge mirror on the wall over a cocktail bar. We catch a

glimpse of Jimmy's image and realize...

Jimmy is completely NAKED and has PAINTED HIS ENTIRE BODY

SILVER.

Camera quickly turns away from the mirror as some people run

from the room.

One of the Female Party Guests (#1) SCREAMS.

Jimmy keeps filming, catching people's reactions.

He points the camera at a Female Party Guest #2.

Female Party Guest #2 is just too stunned to speak.

Jimmy turns the camera at his mother who is completely

shocked to see him like this.

Jimmy's Dad runs into the room and throws a blanket over

Jimmy's head, body and the camera. All we see is black and

flashes of light from under the blanket.

Camera's under the blanket as we hear Jimmy's Dad pushes him

from the room. Camera shuts down.

INT. THERAPIST'S OFFICE - DAY

Camera is being removed from the camera bag. As the lens

pans quickly, we catch a glimpse of Jimmy smirking, holding

the camera. He's way too close to the lens.

He flips it around until it locks on DR. WALTERS, MFCC (40),

Jimmy's not very accomplished therapist. Walters seems to

have a very gentle and nonthreatening aura that suggests he's

the type of person you would feel comfortable talking to. He

sits by the window in his relatively uninteresting office.

Jimmy has turned on the camera in the middle of their first

session together.

The camera doesn't move.

Jimmy (O.C.) doesn't respond.

Still no answer.

Still no answer.

No movement from the camera.

Dr. Walters sits in front of the camera, trying to stay

perfectly still and calm.

Dr. Walters is so nice and so calm, that we start to feel

sorry for him.

No movement.

No movement.

Dr. Walters fidgets.

Then holds still.

Then fidgets, trying to stay calm.

No movement.

The camera shakes a bit.     Jimmy's laughing.

Dr. Walters is doing his best to stay calm.

No movement.

Nothing.

Dr. Walters gets up and comes towards the camera.   He grabs

it just above the lens and tries to take it away.

A fierce battle of tug of war breaks out.      We see Dr. Walters

becoming increasingly pissed off.

The back and forth is suddenly getting violent, until...

Dr. Walters finally gets the camera free from Jimmy.     Camera

shuts off.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM/UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

Jimmy's behind the camera, moving quickly down the hall to...

JIMMY'S BEDROOM

Judy is sitting on his bed.   She sees Jimmy come in with the

camera and freaks out.

Judy gets up to go.

As Jimmy gets up to stop her, camera shuts off.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Jimmy is filming Judy, who is sitting on his bed. Her face

is red, her eyes have watered up, and her nose is snotty and

running from after an intense session of crying. Jimmy is

catching her seconds after she's has finally composed

herself.

Judy stares off camera.

Judy thinks for a beat.

Judy thinks for a beat.

This isn't working.   The camera drops from Judy.

Camera shuts down.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Camera's on a tripod. Jimmy sits in a chair, the back of his

shoulder foregrounds Judy.

She stops.

Now Judy completely has forgotten that the camera is there.

Jimmy zooms in the camera by remote.    Judy's distracted.

Judy refocuses.

She looks at Jimmy as if he is an angel.

Judy tries to stifle tears, but they're starting to flow

again. As camera zooms in further, Judy catches sight of

Jimmy's finger on the remote and BLOWS HER FUCKING TOP,

leaping from her chair.

Judy goes for the camera, struggling to get it off the

tripod, she finally frees it and points it at Jimmy.

Camera's framed poorly, moves around a lot, goes in and out

of focus, etc.

Judy moves the camera directly in his face. The lens is

millimeters away from his nose. We see an extreme close up

of his nostrils.

Jimmy leans in and rests his nose on the lens.

Judy pulls back and continues filming him.

Now Judy's the interviewer.   Her framing is not quite as

adept as Jimmy's.

Judy is shaken and speechless.

Judy's moved and forgets herself.   Camera drops from Jimmy.

Jimmy helps her put the camera back up on him.

Jimmy sits still.    Judy doesn't know what to do with that.

Judy doesn't have an answer.

Jimmy reaches forward and takes the camera away from her and

turns the interview around.

Judy doesn't know what to say.

Judy fidgets.

Judy fidgets again, then...

Judy pauses. The pressure of the camera from Jimmy makes her

feel like she has to give him more.

Judy's out of breath.    Camera still points at her.

Judy stares back at the camera, longing for an answer from

Jimmy. She told him she loved him. Camera shuts down.

I/E. HIGHWAY FIRST-KISS-SMILEY-FACE/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY

Jimmy is driving in his car with Judy in the passenger seat.

Judy has the camera and she is interviewing Jimmy as he

drives.

Judy and Jimmy laugh together.

Judy sulks for a second.

Long pause.   Judy doesn't know how to react.

Judy smacks him.

O.C., Judy is sticking her chest out for Jimmy. He looks

away from the road to stare, her breasts filling out her top

nicely.

Judy tilts the camera down.

IN A FLASH we see a lifelike dildo sticking out of Jimmy's

fly, a smiley face sticker covers the head. The camera

quickly shakes and spins off the image as Judy screams bloody

fucking murder.

Jimmy laughs. Judy forgets the camera is on. She drops it

into her lap, fabric from her clothes covers the frame.

We can hear Jimmy and Judy laughing hysterically.

We hear the rustling of Judy's clothing. Camera falls to her

feet on the floor of the car. There's silence. Off camera,

Judy's nervously showing Jimmy her breasts.

Judy grabs the camera. It's pointing in Jimmy's direction,

but she still doesn't realize it's on.

Jimmy pulls over to the side of the road then takes the

camera. Jimmy frames up Judy.

Judy has a naughty and flirtatious smile.

In the blink of an eye she suddenly lifts up her shirt and

exposes her bra, then pulls her shirt back down.

Jimmy protests.

Judy's not sure.   Jimmy looks into her eyes, pouring it on.

Judy looks at him with a sense of admiration then hope.

Judy gets the same sexy, naughty smile and lifts up her shirt

exposing the bra, keeping it there.

Judy looks nervous but gives in. She unhooks her bra from

the front and exposes her naked breasts for as long as she

can. Jimmy focusses the camera's attention on them. It's

too much for her. She quickly pulls her shirt back down.

Jimmy tilts up to a close up of Judy's face.

Judy's eyes are starting to well up as she tries not to cry.

She starts tearing up.

Jimmy sees she's crying.

Judy leans towards Jimmy, then suddenly attacks him and

shoves the camera to the side. They are making out

exuberantly. The camera shakes and wobbles. We can hear

heavy breathing and the two of them smashing up against the

interior of the car.

Jimmy finally has the camera in position. He has one of his

arms extended and now we can see the two of them kissing.

Judy's devouring him in that raging teenage hormone sort of

way.

We see and hear Judy whispering, her lips placed gently on

the inside of Jimmy's ear.

Camera goes off.

I/E. HIGHWAY FIRST-KISS-SMILEY-FACE/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY

Judy films Jimmy driving the car.   He has a huge shit eating

grin on his face.

Long pause filled with sexual tension takes over.

Jimmy smiles.   Of course he does.   Camera goes off.

EXT. BEAUTIFUL FARM - SHOTGUN SCENE - DAY

Judy films Jimmy as he FIRES a twelve gage pump action shot

gun off into the distance. After each shot he pumps then

FIRES again.

No response.

Jimmy FIRES another shot. His muscles are flexing as he

pumps the gage. He looks extremely violent and determined.

A very turned off Judy replies.

We can hear Judy crying.   The camera shakes out of control.

Jimmy looks over towards the camera/Judy. He knows that he's

fucked up and he feels like complete shit.

Jimmy walks over to her, takes the camera and shuts it off.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy is standing in front of a mirror and is videotaping his

own reflection.

He is talking to himself and into the camera.

Now he is pleading with himself.

He hasn't convinced himself.

Jimmy takes a breath, then shuts the camera down.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - JIMMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy films Judy who lies next to him in the bed. Her face

is sweaty and red and he is still a tad out of breath. Jimmy

is capturing her literally seconds after they had sex.

She's somewhat bewildered, then she notices the camera.

She's starting to get used to it.

Judy just sighs, basking in the afterglow.

Judy chuckles.

Jimmy is more than surprised.

Judy speaks as if she is going to reveal a big secret.   Very

quiet and cute in her mannerisms.

Judy thinks.

Judy looks for the right word.

Judy laughs with embarrassment.      Camera shakes as Jimmy hands

it to her.

Judy turns the camera back on Jimmy as he leaps out of bed.

Jimmy's bare ass flashes us as he heads out the bedroom door.

Judy holds the camera as we hear Jimmy in the hallway. He

opens a closet door, fumbles through it, then busts back into

the bedroom, holding the shotgun he used out on the lake.

Jimmy zooms in on Jimmy's naked upper body as he stands in

front of her and begins pumping the gun and pulling the

trigger. Obviously the gun is not loaded.

Jimmy gives Judy the gun.     Now she's holding the gun and the

camera.

Judy points the gun at Jimmy.   She lowers it, aiming right at

his crotch just below frame.

Judy hands Jimmy the camera.    Camera moves and shakes as she

hands it over.

Jimmy frames her up nicely. Now we see Judy topless,

pointing the gun directly at the lens of the camera.

She brings the gun down, then takes the barrel of the gun and

places it between her breasts, squishing them together,

covering her nipples as she rubs the barrel between her

breasts.

Judy takes the barrel of the gun from her breasts and near

her mouth. She starts rolling her tongue over the top of the

barrel slowly and seductively, then stops. It looks as if

she's about to perform full mock oral sex on the barrel of

the gun.

As she is about to start to move her mouth and lips over the

gun, then suddenly we hear a garage door open.

Jimmy throws the camera sideways down on the bed.

We are now seeing sideways rotated images of Jimmy and Judy

panicking, throwing on their clothes as fast as humanly

possible.

Jimmy grabs the camera off the bed and turns it off.

INT. JIMMY'S HOUSE - PARENTS' BEDROOM - DAY

Jimmy is hiding in the closet of his parents' bedroom. He

has the door of the closet cracked and puts the lens of the

camera through the crack.

Jimmy's Dad enters the room. He has no idea that he is being

filmed and that Jimmy is in the closet.

Jimmy's Dad walks over to the dresser, opens up the top

drawer and pulls something out. It's too dark in the room to

tell exactly what he's pulled out, but it appears to resemble

some sort of undergarment.

Jimmy's Dad begins undressing, then steps out of frame.

After a beat, he reappears. Now he's wearing nothing but a

sequined teddy. He's totally fat, hairy, and nasty looking.

He sits on the side of the bed, his back to us. Now we see

that what he grabbed out of the drawer was actually a pair of

fishnet stockings. He begins putting them on.

When he is finished putting on his panty hose, he gets up off

the bed and begins admiring his legs in a mirror. He begins

to gently stroke the sides of his legs, relishing the feel of

the hose over his hands and fingertips.

He seems to be lip syncing the words to a song and begins to

get all worked up. He shakes his hips and dances around the

room for a few seconds.

Now Jimmy's Dad goes to the dresser and pulls out a long

brunette wig from the back of his top drawer. Putting it on,

with the fishnet stockings, sequined teddy and long wig, he

has transformed himself into the world's fattest, ugliest,

hairiest, Cher look-a-like.

Someone else enters the room.

Holy shit. It's Jimmy's Mom, and she's wearing a leather

dominatrix outfit!

As Jimmy's Mom exits frame, we see Jimmy's Dad go to the

mirror. He opens up the top drawer again and pulls out a

little makeup bag.

Jimmy's Mom re-enters, now wearing a mini leather biker's

hat, carrying a riding switch.

Jimmy's Dad finishes applying his lipstick and moves over to

the bed. By the way Jimmy's parents are behaving, it's as if

they've gone through this routine a thousand times.

Jimmy's Mom drifts off screen as Jimmy's Dad gets up on all

fours. Suddenly, we hear a SMACK as Jimmy's Mom hits Jimmy's

Dad on his ass with the switch.

He lets out deep pleasured groans as she continues SMACKING

him with the whip harder and harder. He yelps, squeals, and

gyrates his hips back and forth, then starts dry humping the

air until she stops.

Jimmy's Mom comes back through and out of frame. Jimmy's Dad

pushes his belly into the bed, groaning from the pain while

he waits for her return.

She comes back, moving quickly across the screen wearing an

enormous strap on dildo.

Disappearing out of frame again, Jimmy's Dad gets himself

ready for her one more time, ass up, on all fours on the bed.

From behind, we can see her hand as she hikes her husband's

dress up his back, then we see his face and hear him grunt as

she rips his fishnets off screen.

There's a pause. Nothing seems to be happening, but Jimmy's

Dad is bracing himself for something. His face tightens up.

Off screen, Jimmy's Mom has started mounting him from behind.

Jimmy can't take it any longer. As he slowly emerges from

the closet, his Mom notices Jimmy almost immediately. She

jumps off her husband, screaming bloody murder.

Camera's shaky but it's easy to guess what's been happening.

Mom's just started doing Dad from behind with the strap on.

Jimmy's Dad leaps from the bed and begins shouting. He looks

completely absurd screaming at Jimmy wearing his sequined

dress and wig.

Jimmy's Mom goes hysterical and begins screaming at Jimmy's

Dad.

Jimmy's Dad is beside himself with fury and throws off his

wig.

Jimmy is loving it.

Jimmy's Dad attacks Jimmy. He swings at the lens. He's one

angry drag queen daddy. He begins strangling Jimmy.

Jimmy's Mom rips off her strap on dildo and begins beating

Jimmy's Dad with it.

Judging from the punishment she's inflicting upon her drag

queen husband, the dildo apparently is made from the finest

and heaviest of materials.

Jimmy's Dad lets go.    The dildo's doing the trick.

Jimmy's Mom keeps swinging the dildo at Jimmy's Dad even

though he's let go.

Jimmy's Mom now directs her attention on Jimmy. She screams

at him as she swings her gigantic strap on towards the

camera.

She continues to swing the strap on as she walks closer and

closer to the lens.

The camera goes crazy. Loud sounds are heard throughout the

room. Evidently Jimmy has been tackled. We hear wrestling

and grunting. It seems that Jimmy's Dad has tackled Jimmy,

or maybe his Mom, or both, but the camera is too shaky to

tell just what has happened.

Jimmy's Dad is still fighting. He seems to have them all

pinned against the floor. He's crushing his mother.

We hear Jimmy's Mom screaming/repeating herself. We see a

hand go over the lens. Jimmy and his mother and father are

all in a wrestling match on the floor.

Jimmy with great enthusiasm begins to sing as the camera

shakes.

The wrestling match continues as we see more hands come

towards the lens. Jimmy's Mom suddenly stops screaming, as

if she's been knocked out.

After some very intense fighting, someone is finally able to

shut the camera off.

EXT. FOREST/MEADOW - RUNNING NAKED - DAY

Jimmy has the camera and is chasing a naked (just from

behind) Judy through the woods. The camera shakes and

rattles, but we can definitely tell this is all in good fun.

Judy screams as she is being chased through the woods.   She

couldn't feel more free.

She begins to tire and slows down. She can no longer run and

turns towards the camera. As she turns around, camera shows

her from the waist up. She has a beer can in her hand and

she is a little drunk.

For the first time, she's completely at ease with her own

body and looks perfectly natural being naked in the

wilderness. She walks towards the camera smoothly and

seductively. Her long hair blond hair blows gently in the

wind.

She takes a big swig of her beer.    Then burps.

Judy walks towards the camera.    She puts her mouth inches

away from the lens.

Judy giggles, then dances around playfully in the woods.      She

has never felt so alive.

Judy smiles, almost laughing. It all sounds pretty

ridiculous to her, but plays along anyway.

Judy walks back towards the camera and grabs it away from

Jimmy, surprising him.

Shot from the waist up, we now see that Jimmy's naked as

well. He's at a loss as to what he should say.

Jimmy thinks.    A drunk Judy is losing her patience.

Judy's not getting what she wants from him.   Camera shuts

down.

EXT. FOREST/MEADOW - RUNNING NAKED - DAY

Judy films Jimmy. The camera is close and intimate as they

lie on their sides staring into each other's eyes. Judy is

still naked, but is being shot in an extreme close up.

Jimmy's still not up for it.   Judy grabs the camera and turns

it on him.

Jimmy's turns the tables.

Jimmy takes a deep breath, a touch of intensity flashes in

his eye, then...

Judy starts laughing.   The camera's shaking.

Jimmy suddenly gets serious.

Jimmy grabs the camera and points it at Judy.

Jimmy hands Judy the camera as she starts to frame him up,

but they're really engaging each other's eyes over the top of

the eyepiece.

Judy is moved.

Jimmy stares at her, then slowly leans in for a kiss... a

long, wet, toe curling kiss. Jimmy finds a way to point the

camera at the kiss.

They break apart. Judy sighs, staring into Jimmy's eyes,

then leans into him, his lips touching her forehead, their

eyes closing as they feel the energy of true love.

Camera shuts down.

I/E. GROCERY STORE PARKING LOT/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY

Jimmy and Judy sit in a parked car outside of a huge grocery

store.

Jimmy and Judy sit outside a small grocery store. Jimmy

films himself. Judy's in the passenger seat. He does his

best news announcer impersonation.

Jimmy flips the camera around onto Judy.

Judy gleefully plays along.

Judy pauses to think.

Judy snaps back into her role as interviewee.

Judy lifts up her shirt and exposes her bra to the camera.

Judy leans in pops a quick kiss at the lens of the camera.

Jimmy shuts it down.

INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY

Jimmy is in a grocery store aisle filming Judy from way far

away. We can barely make out that it is her until Jimmy

zooms in tighter. She couldn't look more nervous or obvious.

She is in the beer section. She quickly takes a six pack of

canned beer and struggles to put it in her school bag. She

walks quickly towards the exit. Jimmy follows her and

catches up.

Jimmy is standing next to her and he continues to film.   Judy

looks so nervous.

A man is yelling at them off camera.

Jimmy pans over and a store manager is standing in front of

them.

Jimmy and Judy have no reply.   The store manager gives them

his best intimidating stare.

There is an extremely long pause.

Camera shuts down.

EXT. GROCERY STORE - PARKING LOT - DAY

Judy is looking at the lens of the camera.    She's shaking and

screaming.

Jimmy calmly and quietly explains.

Judy is calmed but still is pissed.

Judy's case isn't sticking.   She treads lightly.

Jimmy's fuming.

Jimmy starts crying.

Judy takes the camera. She tapes Jimmy who is sobbing. Now

she is the one who speaks gently. She's trying to give him a

taste of his own medicine.

Jimmy doesn't answer.   He tries to compose himself enough to

speak.

Judy pushes harder.

Judy doesn't know how to respond.

Jimmy is still crying.   This weighs on her.

Jimmy has talked himself into a good mood.       Before we hear

Judy's response, we...

I/E. GROCERY STORE PARKING LOT/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY

Moments later, Jimmy is now taping Judy. She has her right

hand up, like a witness about to be sworn into the stand.

She's all smiles as Jimmy gives her the oath to repeat back

to him.

Judy raises her right hand.

Judy laughs, then screams with embarrassed excitement.    Her

laughter and happiness is infectious.

She pounds her fists on the dashboard and laughs again.

We can hear Jimmy laughing off camera as well.

Judy lifts her right hand back up.   She looks at the camera

with a huge smile.

THWACK! Someone has thrown a full soda can on the hood of

Jimmy's car. He pans and zooms the camera over and sees a

car full of Three Teenagers laughing at them.

Suddenly the TEENAGE DRIVER of the car appears, as if out of

nowhere, running to the passenger side. Jimmy zooms out.

The frame catches up to him just as he spits a huge LOOGIE

into the car, hitting Judy right in the face.

Judy screams. The car full of Three Teenagers laugh

hysterically at her expense.

Jimmy hands Judy the camera.

Jimmy calmly gets out of his car as Judy tapes him through

the window. We can hear her breathing heavily as she tries

not to cry softly off camera.

Jimmy has gone to the rear of the car. We hear the trunk

open while Judy films through the windshield at the car full

of laughing teens. Jimmy enters the frame carrying a

baseball bat.

We see him talking calmly to the driver of the car, the Kid

who spat in Judy's face. Then...

WHAM!

Jimmy reels back and clocks the kid right in the face with

the bat. The Kid falls over into the front seat of the car.

Jimmy calmly walks over to the front of the car and begins

bashing in the windshield.

Now rage has taken over Jimmy over entirely.   He's bashing in

the windshield with all of his might.

The teenagers all go running from the car.   A crowd starts to

form in the parking lot.

Jimmy has now completely bashed in the windshield and moves

to the front of the car. He now begins smashing the other

windows.

Now a sizeable crowd is formed. Jimmy is seemingly oblivious

to them and continues bashing the car.

Now it's to the point of overkill. But Jimmy won't stop.

It's as if the rage he's been carrying inside of him his

entire life is now coming to the surface.

We hear sirens in the distance as Jimmy continues to bash the

car. The car is in near shambles as we hear police sirens in

the distance.

Judy begins screaming.

Jimmy doesn't. He pounds the car harder as a police cruiser

pulls up. Two policemen get out of the car. They are

temporarily paralyzed with indecision.

We see one of the officers trying to speak with Jimmy. He

just ignores them. The policemen are oblivious to the fact

they are being filmed.

One of the officers gets out a can of mace and sprays it in

Jimmy's face.

Now Jimmy is completely freaking out. We hear him scream,

but he continues to bash the car with his eyes closed. One

of the cops draws his gun as Jimmy swings aimlessly towards

them. He gets sprayed again with the mace and is now

completely blinded. A huge crowd has now amassed outside of

the grocery store.

Now the entire parking lot is filled with cop cars. Lights

are flashing all around Jimmy. He is surrounded but sill

continues to swing the bat.

Three cops tackle Jimmy from behind. Judy throws down the

camera and runs out the door. The camera is face down on the

seat.

We hear Judy get out of the car, leaving the door open so we

can hear the entire scene with much more intensity. The

sounds of police sirens and radios is overwhelming.

We hear a woman screaming and more sirens and cars are

pulling up. More screaming and sounds on the radio is heard.

We hear police chatter:

More screaming and chatter is heard until someone enters the

car. We don't know who it is. They turn off the camera.

I/E. SANITARIUM PARKING LOT/JUDY'S CAR - DAY

Judy is filming. She sits behind the wheel pointing the

camera at the front door of a HIDDEN VALLEY Mental Hospital.

She zooms in on a sign.

Judy flips the camera around to herself.

Judy opens her mouth wide.   She's got a tongue stud on her

tongue.

Camera shuts down.

I/E. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT DRIVE THRU/JIMMY'S CAR - DAY

Jimmy's pulled forward to the drive thru while Judy tapes

from passenger seat. A voice squawks at Jimmy, asking for

his order.

Jimmy looks at the camera.

He turns back to order more.

The Drive Thru window voice rattles off a price and tells him

to pull up. Jimmy continues to camera.

Jimmy does an over the top mock sincerity speech.

Judy laughs.

Jimmy does an imitation of himself in therapy.   He looks

directly into the lens.

Jimmy is getting progressively sappier and more over the top

with his self impersonation.

Jimmy does an obnoxious fake cry.

Jimmy pulls up to the drive through window and pays the

Cashier who hands him the a paper bag of food.

Jimmy pulls away and parks. Judy continues to question him

as he goes through his bag of food.

Jimmy munches on some fries.

Jimmy pretends he is reading from a text book 50's industrial

spoof style.

Jimmy smiles as he gets his burger out of the paper bag. He

then opens the top bun of the burger to examine if they got

his order correct. They didn't.

Jimmy playfully begins to act crazy.

Jimmy goes into a cartoonish like crazy person character.

He begins by taking the pickles off of his burger. He puts

the burger down, quickly lifts his shirt, holding it up with

his chin while he places two pickles over top of his nipples.

Jimmy yells.

Judy cracks up laughing. Jimmy takes a pickle off of his

left nipple and dangles it directly in front of the lens.

He then feeds it to Judy. We hear Judy chomping on the

pickle and giggling off camera. The camera shakes then shuts

down.

I/E. GHETTO/JUDY'S CAR - NIGHT

Judy is driving through the ghetto as Jimmy shoots out of the

window. On the sidewalk, he catches glimpses Drug Dealers, a

Crack Whore, a Drunk stumbling along, and Other Pretty

Sketchy Characters.

This upsets Judy.

Judy's holding back tears.

She doesn't believe him. She's really starting to cry

despite herself. He pulls his eye from the lens to look at

her.

Judy looks over at him.

Her freak out subsides.

Judy lets out half cry and half yelp.   Her emotions are a bit

out of control.

Awkward silence.   Judy looks like she wants to ask Jimmy

something.

Jimmy hands her a small bottle of whiskey. She takes a

sizable gulp, makes a face, then hands it back to Jimmy.

Judy is getting upset again.

Judy takes another drink off the bottle of whiskey and

smiles.

While she is driving she pulls down her tank top and quickly

exposes her breasts through the top of her shirt.

Judy tries to position her body so her breasts are in frame.

She begins pushing one up, then sticks out her tongue,

teasing.

Judy smiles and looks over at the camera. One hand on the

steering wheel and one on her breast, when...

BOOM!

A loud THUMP hits the car, shaking the camera.

Judy's in shock. Jimmy puts the camera on the floor of the

car by the passenger seat. He forgets to turn it off.

All we see is a close up of the floor and Jimmy's feet.

Jimmy gets out of the car.    We hear the car door open then

close.

Judy sounds like she is having a complete nervous breakdown.

She's crying, but in an extremely nervous and frantic way.

We have no clue what Jimmy is doing outside of the car.

We hear a car door open and some struggling sounds coming

from Jimmy.

Long pause, we hear Jimmy struggling off camera.

Silence.   You can feel them thinking.

We hear Judy pop the trunk.

We hear Jimmy struggling.

The camera is still on the floor of the car.

More struggling as Jimmy is clearly outside putting the body

into the trunk.

We hear Jimmy slam the trunk.

We hear Jimmy come around to the driver's seat and open the

door.

We hear Judy get out of the car and walk around to the

passenger side and open the door, but she doesn't get in.

Judy doesn't respond.

Judy is hysterical.

Judy's losing it.

Before Jimmy can respond, we see the reflection of police

lights. Red and blue lights flicker against the lens.

We hear Judy get in the car and close the door.

She's hysterical.

Jimmy kicks the camera. We still can't see any of this.     We

can only hear what's happening.

Judy's crying gets louder.

We hear the cop open and shut his patrol car door.

The Cop is close, we can feel his footsteps coming towards

the car. Judy collects herself as best as she can.

The cop taps his flashlight against the window.

We hear Judy roll down her power window and we hear the voice

of the Cop.

The light from the Cop's flashlight reflects off the floor of

the car and into the lens of the camera.

The reflections stop.   The wait is unbearable.

Jimmy gets out of the car as Judy trembles in the passengers

seat.

We only hear the sounds of Judy sniffling and repressing

herself from crying and idle chatter of the Cop's radio.

It seems like forever, then...

THUMP!

The car is shaking, we hear intense struggling going on

outside.

Judy unleashes a piercing, high pitched scream.

More violent struggling is heard as Judy begins to

hyperventilate.

POP

A gunshot is fired.

Judy screams.

POP.   Another shot is fired.

The car door opens, Jimmy gets in. We hear the sounds of

tires squealing and the engine roaring.

Judy's now totally freaked.

Jimmy can't bully her into silence.    She continues to freak

out. The camera is kicked.

Camera is kicked off and shuts down.

EXT. REST STOP - SECLUDED AREA - TRUNK OF THE CAR - NIGHT

A weird, digital, black and white image plays on the camera.

There's no light and Jimmy's got the camera back in "Nite

Shot" mode. He's standing outside of the car filming the

Homeless Man who is lying dead inside of the trunk. Judy

stands next to him as he films.

The Homeless Man is twisted and contorted in order to fit in

the small confines of the trunk.

Jimmy pans back and forth and up and down his dead body.

Jimmy keeps filming.

Jimmy ignores her.

Judy settles.   Jimmy is out of breath.

The sun is beginning to rise. The light of a new day

cascades upon the dead body in the trunk.

Jimmy has dropped the camera away from the Homeless Man.

He's still rolling while he wraps his arms around her and

holds her.

We hear him kissing her softly.

Camera shuts down.

INT. WOODS IN NOWHERE - HOMELESS MAN ROAST - NIGHT

We see and hear a huge roaring fire. Jimmy has zoomed the

lens in so close that we can't tell what it is that's

burning.

As he pulls out, it's revealed that the dead homeless guy is

roasting in the fire.

Judy coughs more violently before.

Jimmy pokes the flaming skull with his stick.

Jimmy pokes some more at the body, then flips the camera up

at Judy.

Judy begins coughing.

Camera shuts down.

INT. DINKO'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Music is playing extremely loud in a funky ass trailer as

Judy dances with DINKO (late 20s) a completely drunk trailer

trash dude wearing a pizza delivery outfit.

Empty whiskey and beer bottles are scattered throughout the

tiny living room as cigarette smoke hovers around them due to

a ridiculously low ceiling.

Judy is dancing in a very sexy manner with Dinko who is

dancing like a complete dork. Dinko has no moves, rhythm, or

beat whatsoever, but dances with as much vigor as a dog on

crack.

Jimmy is sitting on the couch filming them dancing in front

of him. Dinko is forced to scream over top of the music to

be heard. He looks directly at Jimmy noticing that Jimmy's

turned on the camera.

Dinko tries to hand off some crank to Jimmy.

Jimmy pans the camera over towards Judy.    She's doing her

best sexy dance into the camera.

We can still hear Dinko talking to Jimmy.

Dinko laughs at his own joke.

Judy takes her dancing up a notch to get Jimmy's attention.

Jimmy doesn't get a chance to respond.

Dinko starts in with Jimmy again.

Jimmy turns the camera back to Dinko while he goes to the

kitchen to get a beer.

Dinko is too stupid to recognize sarcasm.

Dinko high five's Jimmy and laughs again.

Judy is frustrated with Jimmy's lack of attention.

Jimmy turns the camera to her. She's starting to do her best

impression of a stripper dance.

Dinko gets up and moves into the kitchen area, crossing the

frame. Jimmy focusses the camera's attention on various

items in the kitchen while Dinko talks.

There's ripped open small electronics and appliances

everywhere, as if Dinko's been taking everything apart and

trying to put it back together.

Camera drifts across several messy piles of papers and

cardboard boxes with bags of drugs in them.

Judy is too stoned to realize that Jimmy has already told her

about Uncle Rodney.

Jimmy pulls out to include Judy in the shot. She's in the

kitchen doing another line of crank off a counter top.

As Judy bends down to snort her line, camera drifts over to

Dinko who's holding a HUGE HILLBILLY WAD OF CASH in his hand

and stuffs it into a box of cereal. Jimmy zooms in on the

cereal box. There's a whole bunch more cash in there.

Dinko throws the cash on the table.    Jimmy ZOOMS OUT catching

Judy in the frame.

Judy wipes powder from her nose, then goes foggy for a split

second, losing then catching her balance.

Jimmy turns the camera onto Dinko.

Judy steps into frame. At this point, she's in her bra and

is dancing like a stripper directly in front of the camera.

THERE'S A KNOCK at the door.

Judy keeps on dancing in her own little world while Dinko

goes to the door. Judy finishes her bottle of beer. She's

pretty drunk and cranked out at this point.

Dinko is at the front door dealing with a customer. We can't

see her and we can barely hear what they're talking about,

but it seems Dinko is engaged in a heated conversation with

her. He yells back into the living room from the front door.

Dinko brings in HAZEL,(40), a frightfully thin crank addict.

She's scared, nervous, and completely strung out, and she

looks like death. They stand off to the side of the room

watching Judy dance.

Judy realizes the woman is in the room and stops dancing.

Jimmy zooms in on the woman. Looking closer we see that

Hazel is in the final stages of her life/addiction. She's

sweating and her eyes are bugging out of her skull.

Dinko turns the music down so they don't have to scream.

Hazel nods her head yes.

Hazel is trembling.    The party atmosphere has come to a

complete halt.

Hazel's not moving.    She's reluctant.

Dinko smacks her square in the face.

Hazel starts to take her clothes off reluctantly.

Jimmy doesn't do anything.     He just keeps filming.

This gives Dinko an added boost of confidence. Hazel is now

in her bra and panties and is standing in front of them.

Judy is now borderline hysterical.

Jimmy ignores her.

Dinko unbuckles his belt as fast as he can. Hazel begins to

cry as Dinko pushes her into position on all fours.

Judy is crying profusely in the background as Dinko pushes

Hazel to the ground. Jimmy zooms in on Dinko, framing out

Hazel as Dinko gets himself ready to take her from behind.

Dinko looks directly at the lens of the camera.

Dinko sees something O.C. from Jimmy, we can't see that

surprises him.

BAM!!!

Dinko takes a shot in the throat and falls onto Hazel.

Jimmy's shot him.

Judy has stopped screaming. Hazel on the other hand is

freaking out, trapped under a squirming Dinko.

Jimmy sets the camera on top of something, stands up and

brings the gun to Judy.

Judy doesn't know what to do.   Jimmy puts the gun in her

hand.

Judy's in a weird cranked out place.

Judy points the gun at a still squirming Dinko.   She can't

bring herself to pull the trigger.

We can hear Dinko choking on his own blood.   He struggles to

move towards Judy.

Jimmy's now standing behind Judy. He wraps his hand around

hers, helps her point the gun and...

BAM

Shoots Dinko right between the eyes.   Jimmy helps her again.

BAM-BAM

Two more shots into his chest, Jimmy's hand still wrapped

around Judy's over the gun.

Jimmy lets go of her hand and the gun drops to the floor.

She's stunned.

Jimmy comes towards camera and shuts it down.

I/E. ROAD LEAVING TRAILER/DINKO'S CAR - NIGHT

A rip roaring fire burns from the trailer. Jimmy is shooting

out of the back of the Dinko's Car, a beat up old station

wagon, as they drive away down the gravel road.

Jimmy sits back into his seat and turns the camera on Judy.

She's got a big smile on her face.

Jimmy keeps filming.

Judy smiles. She turns and blows a kiss towards the camera,

oddly serene from the drugs despite everything that's

happened. To her, it's as if all is right with the world.

Camera shuts down.

INT. LAS VEGAS - WEDDING CHAPEL - NIGHT

Jimmy is standing on the altar waiting for his bride to be.

He is wearing a white tuxedo with black tie and ruffle shirt

like Ricardo Montalban from Fantasy Island.

They are being married by an Elvis impersonator and the

witnesses/groomsmen are Siegfried and Roy look-a-likes.

Jimmy waves to the person who is working the camera.   The

Elvis impersonator talks to Jimmy.

Elvis reaches down and gets a guitar and breaks into an Elvis

version of "Here Comes the Bride" but to the song "You ain't

Nothing But A Hound Dog."

The Elvis impersonator goes all out with the dance and the

gyrating Elvis hips as he jams on his acoustic guitar.

Jimmy motions to the camera to turn around.

The camera whips around and we see Judy walking down the

aisle. Tears of joy run down Judy's heavily made up face as

she walks.

Judy makes her way over to her side of the altar next to her

bridesmaids (two Cher look-a-likes).

Elvis is looking for Judy's name that's been scribbled on

paper.

He hands Elvis a small piece of paper who skims it. He kind

of shakes his head, smirking at what he reads, then decides

to go for it.

Elvis gives a quick windmill strum to his guitar and starts.

The Cher bridesmaids giggle.

Siegfried gives the rings to Jimmy who places one on Judy's

finger and vice versa.

Jimmy and Judy grab each other by the ass and begin making

out.

The freak show audience claps while they are making out. The

applauding dies down but Jimmy and Judy continue to make out.

Jimmy puts his hand up her dress as she begins unbuckling his

pants. It looks like they may start fucking on the alter.

Elvis jumps in to break it up.

Camera shuts down.

INT. LAS VEGAS - LAS VEGAS MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy is running through    the motel room with the camera.

Flashes of snorted lines    of crank dust and rolled up bills

are in the background as    Jimmy moves through the room. We

hear Judy screaming with    excitement about something on the

TV.

Jimmy settles camera on the television.

BEGIN TV NEWS REPORT

On TV, Jimmy and Judy's high school year book pictures are on

the screen.

INT. TV NEWS STUDIO - (FOR VEGAS MOTEL TV) - NIGHT

An ANCHORMAN is mid-sentence, talking about Jimmy and Judy.

Judy gasps involuntarily as...

INT. LAS VEGAS - LAS VEGAS MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy pulls the camera from the screen and points it at Judy

to get her reaction. Her eyes are locked on the screen.

Judy's face drops. We, on the other hand, are dying to see

what she's looking at.

Jimmy swish pans back to the TV and zooms in tight.   The

television fills the frame.

EXT. GHETTO - COP CAR CAM (FOR VEGAS MOTEL) - NIGHT

(From Sc. 37, p. 64) On screen we see something completely

new. It's a black and white security cam style video image.

Just as the announcer described, this is the kind of image

that comes from a video camera that's mounted on the inside

of a Cop Car. It's static and covered with date/time text,

etc.

On TV, we finally get a chance to see what transpired when

Jimmy and Judy were pulled over. Judy is standing outside

the cop car. The moment she sees it approach, we see her

freak just a bit and get into the car quickly and

suspiciously. The cop gets up, gets out of the car and goes

over to the driver side to talk to Jimmy. After a few

moments, he summons Jimmy out of the car while Judy waits.

The Cop asks Jimmy to open the trunk. He doesn't have his

gun drawn, but he is being cautious, one hand on his gun

holster, the other shining on Jimmy's face with a flashlight.

Jimmy stands by the trunk of the car, but he's not really

obeying the Cop's commands. He's stalling. The Cop is

getting suspicious. We can barely hear what they're saying

to each other over the noise of traffic that whizzes by.

There's an unintelligible exchange, then... the cop steps

forward, raising his voice.

Jimmy's reluctant.

The Cop and Jimmy are sort of at a standoff.    Jimmy finally

leans over and puts his hands on the trunk.

The Cop comes in close to Jimmy, pulling his hand from his

gun holster and shifting it to pull his cuffs off his belt.

At that exact moment, Jimmy makes his move, LEAPING for the

Cop.

He takes the Cop to the ground and off screen.

All we see is a barely decipherable image of Judy freaking

out in the passenger seat because she can't see what's going

on and neither can we.

About 5 seconds go by.

BOOM!

A gunshot is fired.

It feels like an eternity, then...

Jimmy pops up off the ground. He's got the Cop's gun! He

hesitates, not knowing what to do. He pauses, hesitant, then

shoots down towards the ground, where the cop is lying out of

frame.

He runs around the front of the car and into the driver seat.

There's a moment of hesitation as Jimmy and Judy seem to be

screaming at each other in the car, then...

Jimmy slams on the gas and the car takes off into the

distance.

The image on the TV cuts away and back to the Anchorman.

INT. TV NEWS STUDIO (FOR VEGAS MOTEL TV) - NIGHT

The Anchorman speaks to camera as...

INT. LAS VEGAS - LAS VEGAS MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy pans up to Judy, hoping to record a reaction. She's

locked on the TV, her hand over her mouth, frozen, not

knowing how to react.

She turns and looks up at him.

Judy's starting to tear up. She's emotional, conflicted.

She can't believe he did that for her, but she's also just

come to the sober realization that he killed a cop in cold

blood for her.

Judy kind of half smiles. She hadn't thought of it, but

she's still trying to digest the images until...

A voice catches Judy's attention from the TV. It's an

ATTORNEY type at a press conference being held by Jimmy's

parents.

Judy looks back at the TV.

Jimmy pans back and we see...

EXT. COURTHOUSE - PODIUM PRESS CONF. (FOR VEAGS TV) - DAY

Jimmy's Mom and Dad with a chiron at the bottom of frame.

They're at a podium with Judy's parents standing stoically in

the background. Jimmy's Mom starts reading a prepared

statement.

Judy's Dad steps up to the microphone.   Despite the truth, he

sounds genuinely concerned.

Jim walks over to the TV and...

INT. LAS VEGAS - LAS VEGAS MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy proceeds to kick the living fuck out of the TV.   It

smashes against the wall and falls to the floor.

END TV NEWS REPORT

Camera shuts down.

INT. BUN BOY MOTEL ROOM - BATHROOM - DAY

Jimmy is filming the both of them in the mirror. Judy stands

above him with noticeably different hair. She has obviously

given herself a homemade dye job, complete with blonde, black

and punk pink streaks.

Judy has an electric clipper and is about to shave Jimmy's

head, who is sitting in a chair below her. She's really

getting off on this and chuckles as she starts to lower the

shaver to his head.

Judy is smiling and can't wait to get started.

She starts in again.

Jimmy thinks.

Judy starts the shaver back up and proceeds to shave Jimmy's

head. She starts right down the middle.

Hair falls into Jimmy's face as Judy slides the buzzer from

front to back. Jimmy now has a reverse Mohawk. He laughs at

himself along with Judy.

Judy then shaves the entire top of Jimmy's head, giving him

the quintessential male pattern baldness look.

He looks ridiculous.

Judy laughs.

Judy shaves the rest of his head and now Jimmy is completely

bald.

Jimmy checks himself out in the mirror.

Judy is stroking the top of his head with her hands.

Jimmy gives it a feel for himself.   He sticks his pinky in

the side of his mouth.

Judy laughs, then kisses the top of Jimmy's head.

Jimmy shuts down the camera.

I/E. BUN BOY - DINER/PARKING LOT/DINKO'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

In a booth at the motel diner, Judy is filming Jimmy while he

stuffs a burger into his face.

Jimmy opens his mouth full of food and comes towards camera.

That didn't quite sit right with him, but he covers it up

with a mock pout while he chews.

Jimmy won't respond, playful.

Jimmy looks up smiling.

Judy pauses.   Jimmy keeps chewing.

The irony is thick. Bald, lanky, 21 year old Jimmy with a

mouth full of food looks like anything but Prince Charming.

Jimmy stops smiling.    She really believes that's going to

happen one day.

Jimmy doesn't want to answer.    While he thinks...

Something out the window distracts him.

Jimmy whips the camera around to zoom in on what he's looking

through the window. Finally, we see...

Two Florence County Sheriff's Cars with their lights flashing

are parked in the parking lot of the cheap motel.

Jimmy zooms in on the cops as they get out of their cars.

The cops walk up to one of the doors to the motel room.

Four Florence Deputies stand outside the motel room door,

ready to bust it in and raid the room.

Jimmy speaks in hushed tones so that others in the diner

won't hear them.

Florence Deputy #1 knocks on the door, waits a beat, then

busts it down. Three Florence Deputies move in with their

guns drawn.

Jimmy forgets to shut the camera down. He holds it by his

waist as the two quickly struggle to get the hell out of the

diner.

Follow along with them, camera by Jimmy's side, mostly

pointing randomly at the floor of the diner or out the

window.

They head out the door to the...

PARKING LOT

Action continues, the camera still rolling without Jimmy

realizing it. They run at a fast clip along the parking lot

as they head toward...

DINKO'S CAR

the dashboard. We    see Jimmy behind the wheel as they drive

out of the parking   lot. He's in freak-out mode, afraid as

hell they're going   to be caught by the cops.

Jimmy keeps driving, his eyes darting back and forth between

the road, the rear view mirror and Judy.

Jimmy looks back up into the rear view mirror, still not 100%

satisfied that they're not being chased.

Jimmy's still not certain. He looks for a while. Then he

sighs. It seems that he knows they're not coming.

Jimmy drives for a bit, then notices that the camera is on

and pointing at him. He reaches forward and...

Camera shuts down.

I/E. PARKING AREA BY RIVER AFTER BUN BOY ESCAPE/DINKO'S CAR -

DAY

Jimmy films Judy, who is sleeping in the front seat of the

car.

Jimmy gently wakes her.

Judy opens her eyes.    The first thing she sees is Jimmy

filming her.

Judy smiles like an infant who sees her daddy for the first

time after a night's sleep. Judy, very childlike, opens her

arms for Jimmy to hug her.

Jimmy leans over, camera in hand, and gives her a hug. The

camera shakes and goes out of focus as he's hugging her.

Judy looks around and is a bit disoriented.

Camera shuts down.

I/E. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - BACKROAD ENTRY/PARKING

AREA/DINKO'S CAR - DAY

Judy drives up a gravel road as Jimmy films.    They travel

through the back roads in Northern Kentucky.    It's nothing

but woods outside the window.

Jimmy doesn't answer.

Judy drives some more.    The camera is bouncing as they drive

across dirt roads.

Judy tries to maintain her composure, but she can't contain

herself.

Judy bites her lip and drives.    Slowly, she comes around a

bend as they arrive at...

UNCLE RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND/PARKING AREA

Judy's eyes go wide.

Jimmy doesn't say anything. He just keeps the camera trained

on Judy. By the look on her face, what she's seeing looks

pretty cool.

Jimmy points the camera through the front windshield. Now we

see what Judy was seeing... about thirty trailers, all along

the water's edge.

It looks like a commune for run-away teenagers with crank

addictions and budding/wannabe drug dealers. The kids are

throwing a combination party, barbecue, and drug festival.

Judy doesn't respond. She just drives. Her eyes are

starting to well up a little bit. She's getting emotional.

Judy's on cloud nine.    The place has exceeded her

expectations.

Judy keeps driving as we see young people, all more or less

the same age as Jimmy and Judy. Some live in trailers, some

in tents. They watch as Jimmy and Judy drive in. Clearly

new faces are of interest to them.

Out the window, they approach another trailer.      Clearly this

trailer is more important than the others.

Outside, a dorky looking douche bag type, BUDDY (20's) talks

to some of the Younger People in intense language. They all

look over to see Jimmy and Judy approaching.

You can hear the excitement in Jimmy's voice as Judy stops

the car.

Jimmy hands off the camera to Judy, who retrains it on the

Buddy and the Wunderland Teenagers he talks to.

Jimmy gets out of Dinko's car and heads up to him while Judy

films. We don't hear the conversation between Jimmy and

Buddy man, but clearly he's happy to see Jimmy.

Buddy gives Jimmy a big hug like he was a missed relative or

an old friend. It's all smiles between the two of them.

Jimmy comes running back over to the car.

Camera shakes as Judy starts out of the car.    Camera shuts

down.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER - DAY

Buddy is standing outside of a Piece Of Shit Trailer. He's

the douche bag type that we saw from a distance give Jimmy a

hug in the previous scene.

He's surprisingly charismatic and gracious and does his best

to make Jimmy and Judy feel at home.

Jimmy films as Buddy gives them a walking tour of the group

of trailers by the river. Judy's with them as well.

Jimmy's panning around the landscape. People are watching

them walk with Buddy. It's almost as if they've got some

kind of celebrity status because they're with him.

Jimmy's panning again, but BUDDY grabs hold of the lens.

BUDDY laughs at his own joke.

Jimmy pans around capturing the natural beauty and

picturesque scenery of the camp.

Jimmy pans back and catches an image of Buddy as he grabs

Judy and puts his arm around her.

Buddy's squeezing Judy just a bit too tight.

They've arrived at a trailer.

Jimmy pans back up at the trailer that's going to be theirs.

From the outside, it's a disaster, peeling paint and cracked

windows.

Buddy gets in front of the camera, reaching for it.

Buddy pulls the camera from Jimmy's hand and points it at

Jimmy and Judy. Judy waves. Jimmy looks a bit uncomfortable

though he tries not to show it.

Shaky amateur camera style as Buddy zooms in on Judy's chest,

closing Jimmy out of frame.

Judy turns.

Camera shuts down.

INT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - JIMMY & JUDY'S TRAILER - DAY

Buddy films from the inside their completely destroyed

trailer. Jimmy stands at the entrance with Judy in his arms,

about to carry her over the threshold. They're waiting for

BUDDY's cue.

Jimmy walks in through the doorway with Judy in his arms.

Buddy is exuberant.   He hums the bridal march, badly, as they

come in.

Buddy looks down at the camera, right into the lens.

After a beat, camera goes off.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - PARTY AND BARBECUE - SALLY'S SPOT -

DAY

Jimmy is filming SALLY, a very sexy and very stoned 18 year

old girl wearing sunglasses and cowboy hat.

She speaks with a heavy southern accent.

Camera shuts down.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - PARTY AND BARBECUE - SAM'S SPOT -

DAY

Jimmy is filming Random Teens at a barbecue. Jimmy is

interviewing SAM, a long greasy haired, nineteen year old

wearing a heavy metal T-shirt. We see people partying and

hanging out in the background.

SAM is drinking beer from a can, smoking a cigarette, and

looks like he hasn't showered for a couple of days. He's

happy to be Jimmy's video subject.

Sam motions behind him at the people partying.

Sam laughs at his own dumb joke.     Jimmy shuts off the camera.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - DOE RUN CREEK - DAY

Jimmy films a naked Judy swimming in the river the

reflections of the water obscuring her body. She's free,

cleansed, relaxed, enjoying the sun, and having the time of

her life. She suddenly notices the camera.

Judy smiles, then slips her head under the water, coming back

up with a smile. She looks up at him.

Jimmy thinks.    She smiles an oh so sweet smile.

Judy smiles even wider. She floats towards camera while

Jimmy zooms in on her smiling face.

As she comes closer...

SHE SPLASHES towards the camera, trying to get Jimmy wet.

Camera shakes as Jimmy hops up to avoid be splashed.

Judy LAUGHS.   Camera goes off.

INT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - JIMMY & JUDY'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Faint moonlight comes into the trailer from outside. Jimmy

is filming Judy as she's just gotten into bed. She sees the

camera's on.

Judy smiles again.   Then...

Judy smiles at the thought of Rodney.

Judy's looking right over the lens into Jimmy's eyes.

Then...

Judy puts her hand over her mouth.   She can't believe it.

Judy's on such a cloud nine high, she's almost in tears. She

wraps her arms around him and SQUEALS with delight, pushing

the camera into an awkward position as she smothers him with

kisses, then squeezes him tight, like she's going to squeeze

the life out of him.

She whispers in his ear.

Camera off.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER - DAY

Head to toe shot on Jimmy. Buddy, we'll find out in a

second, is behind the camera. Jimmy looks at a trailer off

screen. He's excited, a little off center and a little

nervous.

Buddy tries to film Jimmy as he's walking towards Rodney's

trailer.

Jimmy stops for a second.

Jimmy stops in his tracks and looks at Buddy.

Jimmy looks at Buddy, not quite sure what to do with any of

it. Buddy senses the tension.

Buddy extends the camera, lens forward.   We can see Jimmy's

puzzled look.

Jimmy's puzzled, but he reaches forward and takes the camera,

shutting it down.

INT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - UNCLE RODNEY'S TRAILER - DAY

Images of UNCLE RODNEY (50) going in and out of focus as he

sits on the side of a king sized bed. Scars and tatoos

litter his arms and neck. His eyes are bit maniacal like

Charles Manson, but he's able to maintain a stoic, but

nonetheless dangerous demeanor as Jimmy begins setting up the

camera.

Like a prison inmate or rabid dog, you get the feeling that

Uncle Rodney could EXPLODE on you at any second.

Jimmy moves the camera around the room so we briefly see the

interior of the trailer. It's an ELABORATE triple

combination of a middle eastern harem, sixties psychedelic

motif, and white trash/junk-yard memorabilia.

JUST OUT OF FRAME we hear a female voice crying softly,

whimpering. The voice is close, in the room with us, but we

can't see who's making the sounds. Uncle Rodney ignores it

completely.

Camera shakes, indicating that Jimmy is exceptionally

nervous.

Finally, the camera stops shaking. Jimmy zooms out to a

medium shot revealing that Uncle Rodney has HAZEL lying next

to him on the bed with her head on his lap.

Uncle Rodney gently strokes her hair like he's petting a dog.

Hazel, in the midst of EXTREME withdrawals, cries and

whimpers like a child, oblivious to Jimmy, the camera, and

everything else in the world except for Uncle Rodney.

She is so strung out and her cravings are so intense that she

can barely speak.

Uncle Rodney looks down upon Hazel.

Uncle Rodney admires his work.

Hazel, entrenched in a crystal methamphetamine psychotic

episode, can only gasp in unintelligible spurts.

Hazel rolls her body back and forth on the bed, all the while

keeping her head in Uncle Rodney's lap.

Uncle Rodney's tenderness in dealing with Hazel calms her.

He's having way too much fun treating her like a baby.

Uncle Rodney takes his pinky and dips it into a small plastic

bag of powder. He then places it to Hazel's nostril.

She quickly snorts the tiny bit off his finger.

Hazel begins whimpering again.   It wasn't nearly enough to

satisfy her.

He puts his finger to Hazel's nostril again, but this time,

without any meth on the tip. She snorts with all of her

might then starts crying. Uncle Rodney is toying with her.

He leans over and grabs a syringe, already filled, then

gently holds Hazel's arm and expertly injects the liquid into

her vein.

Nothing happens for several seconds.

Hazel's breathing accelerates. Suddenly she sits up, her

eyes go wide. Hazel clinches the bed as if she were riding a

roller coaster.

Then, she makes eye contact with Jimmy.

A curious, frightened look comes over her face.   Clearly, she

recognizes him.

She suddenly JUMPS from the bed and runs out of the room.

Uncle Rodney smiles, amusing himself with his own joke.

Uncle Rodney starts in on his mantra.   It's obvious that he's

well versed in his meandering rant.

Long pause.

A pause, then...

Rodney stops, almost out of breath.

Rodney settles himself down and takes a few deep breaths as

Jimmy begins zooming out. Uncle Rodney lights a cigarette to

calm himself.

Jimmy keeps filming, not knowing whether Rodney is finished

or just taking a break.

Camera shuts down.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - FIRE PIT - NIGHT

Someone (Buddy) is filming a raging party consisting of a lot

of strung out young white trash junkies just like the ones

Jimmy was interviewing before. It's certainly a weird bunch.

They all look alike, dress similar, and have the same type of

crystal methamphetamine induced facial expressions.

Most of them are smoking weed and drinking forty ounce beers

while dancing around a campfire and playing the bongo drums.

They all seem to be having more fun than anyone should be

allowed.

Camera pans to Jimmy, so we realize that he's not filming.

Our best guess would be that it's Buddy who's filming. Jimmy

screams at the camera over the noise of the Bongo drums.

Buddy's hand comes into frame as he points by the fire pit.

We now see Jimmy see Judy.

She dances fervently drinking a forty surrounded by tons of

other drunk, happily intoxicated teenagers. Say what you

might about the attendees to the event, this party is a

FUCKING RAGER and Judy is happy to be the center of

everyone's attention.

Everyone dances faster and faster as the rhythm of drums beat

faster and become more intense. It's an all out jam session.

Jimmy heads to the center of the circle of people dancing

around Judy. Camera follows him with a zoom as he does.

JUMP CUT

Who knows how much later. Minutes or hours, the party rages

forward. The camera spins around. The party has reached a

new level of drunken absurdity. Most of those who are

dancing are drunk, stoned or both.

In the background, while it's too dark and hectic see

anything explicit, some of the teenagers are engaged in a

variety of sexual activity. Some have threesomes. Some are

probably having oral sex. Still others dance around them in

the foreground.

Camera zooms in on Uncle Rodney.

Standing just behind him, we see of flash of someone

recognizable. It's a skinny woman, she looks vaguely

familiar, but it's hard to get a fix with all the craziness

going on.

She turns her head to look over at Rodney.

Now we can clearly see that this person is...

HAZEL - with her eyes wide and clearly in the height of

rolling on crank.

AND she's saying something to Uncle Rodney that's definitely

pissing him off.

Bodies wipe the frame.

JUMP CUT

Moments later. Camera catches Judy who hasn't missed a step

along the way to being a high, drunken mess. The rhythm of

the drum beats is ever present.

Uncle Rodney comes up behind her and wraps his arms around

her shoulder, saying something to her, but we can't hear it

over the noise. Jimmy approaches and they start talking.

Jimmy doesn't notice, but there are about four or five of the

kids, especially a couple of Rodney's Bigger Guys standing

not too far behind Uncle Rodney watching the conversation

intensely.

It's really difficult to put your finger on it exactly, but

something doesn't seem right here.

Uncle Rodney lets go of Judy and puts his arm around Jimmy.

With the noise of the drums and the fact that we're zoomed in

from a distance, we can't hear anything they're saying.

Now Uncle Rodney and Jimmy are having a conversation as they

move towards the camera. Though Jimmy can't see it, we can

see that Rodney's Bigger Guys, the ones that were standing

behind Uncle Rodney are now pushing Judy along behind Jimmy

and Rodney. Though Uncle Rodney seems to be having a very

light and friendly conversation with Jimmy, we continue to

get the feeling that something ominous is afoot.

Finally, they approach camera and we can hear them.

Uncle Rodney's got Jimmy in an incredibly friendly one armed

side hug.

Rodney's face drops.

This hits Jimmy like a lead weight. Before he can react at

all, and before he realizes that anything is happening, Jimmy

is suddenly thrown into a headlock by Uncle Rodney.

Off camera, something similar is happening to Judy.

Judy screams his name over and over.

SMACK!   Judy's been hit by Buddy off screen.

Camera shuts down.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - DARK WOODS - NIGHT

We hear intense struggling and laughter. By the sounds we

hear, we gather that Jimmy and Judy are being dragged off

into the woods against their will by Buddy and Rodney's

Bigger Guys, but it's too dark to tell if that is what in

fact is happening.

Someone unidentified is running the show and operates the

camera. It's impossible to see, but it's definitely Buddy's

voice.

Judy is screaming and crying.

Two or three guys, it's too dark to tell, start laughing.

Jimmy grunts, trying to break free.

MUNCH. Somewhere in the darkness Jimmy's been kicked in the

gut. The camera hits the ground. It lands right in front of

Jimmy. We can still barely see what's going on, but we're

close enough and there's enough flashes of light from

flashlights to see that Jimmy is face down and bloody.

Jimmy gets kicked again just once. Then suddenly, a barrage

of kicks come at Jimmy one after the other after the other.

Leaves and grass and dirt and flying feet shoot at Jimmy's

face as he is kicked and beaten repeatedly.

The process goes on for about thirty excruciating seconds.

We can't tell how much damage has been sustained, but Jimmy's

not moving. He's either unconscious or dead.

With one last kick, the camera is knocked aside and we don't

see Jimmy's face anymore.

They mock her in a high pitched wining voice.

Judy screams at the top of her lungs over and over again as

we hear them tearing at her clothes. Then they pick her up

and start pulling her away from camera.

Her screams get quieter and quieter... fainter and fainter.

Finally there's silence. The camera isn't moving.    It's on

the ground and in the dark. Camera shuts down.

EXT. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - PARKING AREA - DINKO'S CAR - NIGHT

It's completely pitch black dark. We can see nothing.    We

can only hear the sound of Jimmy fumbling around and

breathing heavily and nervously.

BEGIN NITE SHOT

Suddenly, we see everything, albeit in a weird black and

white grainy fashion. Jimmy's flipped the camera into Nite

Shot, using the fuzzy black and white mode as a tool to see

in the complete darkness. He's strapped the camera to his

wrist.

The image is Jimmy's POV as he searches through his trunk for

something. Pulling aside a duffle bag, we see the 9mm pistol

that Jimmy stole from the Cop. He grabs it as camera shuts

down.

I/E. RODNEY'S WUNDERLAND - FIRE PIT/OUTSIDE RODNEY'S

TRAIER/INSIDE RODNEYS TRAILER/PARKING AREA/DINKO'S CAR -

NIGHT

By the fire pit, the site where the teenage drunken of orgy

took place, the bonfire has been put out and there are dozens

of drunken/passed out teenagers lying on the ground in

sleeping bags and in tents.

Jimmy begins looking for Judy with his night vision camera.

He sees a girl lying on the ground in a sleeping bag   with her

back turned to the camera. Her hair is identical to    Judy's,

but we can't see her face. Jimmy quietly steps over    passed

out teenagers, being extremely careful not to awaken   anyone.

Jimmy accidently kicks a forty ounce beer bottle that causes

a loud clanking sound of glass on glass.

Jimmy stops in his tracks in anticipation of someone waking

up. No one does.

Jimmy continues to walk towards the GIRL WHO LOOKS LIKE JUDY.

Kneeling directly in front of her, Jimmy puts his hands on

her shoulder and pulls the girl's front region towards the

camera. The girl flips over.

It's not Judy. And luckily, the girl is so severely

intoxicated that she doesn't wake up.

Jimmy now makes his way over to a tent. He quietly unzips

the mesh entrance and extends his arm out to video tape the

inside. Turns out, the person in the tent is just another

passed out flunky loser. Jimmy quickly takes his arm out of

the tent.

Jimmy gives it one last go and continues to look for Judy

among the sea of passed out bodies lying on the ground.

No luck.

Jimmy's not too far from Uncle Rodney's trailer.   He decides

to make his way up.

He walks, using his Nite Shot to see, through the sea of

bodies until he gets up to the entrance...

OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER

There's a cracked glass door leaning up against the woodpile

by the entrance. Jimmy steps around it, turning the lens at

the glass. He briefly catches his reflection. He looks like

hell warmed over, freshly bruised and cut from the recent

beating.

Moving forward, Jimmy makes it to the front door of Uncle

Rodney's trailer. We hear music coming from inside. Very

slowly and very carefully, Jimmy cracks the front door.

INSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER

It's even darker inside of the trailer, but Jimmy presses

forward in spite of that fact, still using his Nite Shot to

see. A boom box sits by the bed, still on, playing music.

Jimmy is scared shitless.

In the corner of the room, in a make shift bunk, is Uncle

Rodney sleeping with his arms wrapped around a girl in a

spooning position. There's no doubt this time.

It's definitely JUDY!

They are both sound asleep and actually look very cozy lying

together. Jimmy slowly walks over towards them. Each step

is slower and slower, being extra careful not to wake them.

Once Jimmy is within arm's length of the two of them he

stops. He hesitates for a moment. He hasn't prepared

himself for this particular situation and doesn't know

exactly what to do.

He continues filming them until he finally musters the

courage to extend his non-filming arm out to tap Judy on the

face. Judy remains unconscious/sleeping as Jimmy gently taps

the side of her cheek. Jimmy slowly begins tapping harder

and harder until the tap evolves into a poke. Still nothing.

THWACK! An arm comes out of nowhere and grabs Jimmy's poking

hand. Jimmy has woken up Uncle Rodney!

The camera shakes out of control.   Uncle Rodney screams at

the top of his lungs:

Intense and furious wrestling ensues as Uncle Rodney flies

out of frame then, in a split second:

BAM!

A gunshot goes off. We hear a Uncle Rodney collapse,

followed by more gun shots. The camera has fallen from

Jimmy's hand and dangles by the wrist strap. Camera comes to

rest on...

UNCLE RODNEY'S BLOODY FACE

Jimmy's shot and killed him.

Outside, footsteps hit the deck.    Buddy opens the door of the

trailer.

BAM, BAM, BAM!

Three more rounds are fired, hitting Buddy square in the

chest, knocking him down. Jimmy points the camera at a dead

Buddy on his back then whip pans it back to Judy in the bed.

Finally we hear Jimmy speak.

Outside we hear voices of some of Rodney's Other Teens.

Jimmy acts fast. Judy has been drugged and is mostly

unconscious and groggy, but Jimmy picks her up and gets her

on her feet, shouldering her out the door. Shot continues

to...

OUTSIDE RODNEY'S TRAILER

We hear faint voices...

A DISTANT GUNSHOT FIRES, but we can't see what is going on.

It's too dark and the camera is too shaky as they go to...

PARKING AREA

Another DISTANT SHOT, then Jimmy gasps in pain. He's been

shot, but decides to run, trying to carry a groggy Judy

anyway. Their car is in sight as we hear guns going off and

bullets whizzing by them. One hits Dinko's car.

Jimmy opens the door, then places the passed out Judy and the

camera in the passenger seat, climbs over her, throwing the

camera into Judy's lap.

We see him scramble to get the key in the ignition as we hear

a BULLET HIT the driver's door. The car starts, and Jimmy

throws it into gear, flooring the gas as he speeds away.

Nothing.

Jimmy's voice begins to crack as he talks to/tries to wake up

Judy.

We don't know if Judy is dead or alive.

Jimmy swerves to avoid something in the road sending the

camera to the floor as camera shuts down.

INT. ROAD TO BORDER MOTEL - CHEAP MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Close on Judy. The afternoon light strikes a shadow across

her face. Her hair's a mess. No makeup.

Judy's eyes flutter.

Judy opens her eyes.    She smiles when she sees Jimmy behind

the lens.

She smiles wider.

Camera shuts down.

I/E. HIGHWAY TO BORDER/DINKO'S CAR - NIGHT

Judy's got the camera trained on herself.    She talks like a

child.

Judy points the camera up at Jimmy. This is the first time

we've seen him at all since he was beaten up by Uncle

Rodney's group. He's a wreck. His face is puffy. His lip

is cut up. His eye is swollen. He looks like a flyweight

boxer who just went fifteen rounds with a heavyweight.

He drives with one arm because the other one is in a bandage.

Jimmy looks like a beaten man, both physically and

emotionally. His bad ass attitude and rebellious charisma

are seemingly non-existent.

For the first time, we are seeing Jimmy without his armor.

He looks like any other 21 year old kid who is down,

vulnerable, and confused. Not to mention the fact that he

has a fucking bullet lodged in his shoulder.

Jimmy looks over at her.

Judy doesn't answer.

Jimmy swallows.

Judy leans in and kisses him.

Judy comes back into the passenger seat and just films him.

She likes looking at him through the lens.

Jimmy smiles as best he can with his face all messed up.

Then his eyes get droopy and close.

He's not responding. He's as punch drunk as you can get.

Jimmy's obviously in a concussion induced daze. The car

starts to drift. Judy drops the camera on the seat as we

hear her leap forward to take control of the car.

Camera shuts down.

I/E. HIGHWAY FINAL-SCENE/DINKO'S CAR - DAY

Judy drives.   There isn't much talking going on.

The car drives. Judy just cruises along, music playing on

the radio. Jimmy (O.C.) looks in the mirror but keeps the

camera trained on her.

Judy looks up immediately.    Her face drops.

Jimmy flips the camera around out the back window. There's a

Ohio State Trooper with its lights flashing tailing them. A

lone trooper is on his radio.

Judy doesn't answer.    She's short circuited.

Judy holds still for a second, not saying a word.

The cop car CHIRPS its siren.

Judy looks up.

Judy looks up into the rearview mirror. Her eyes are welling

up. She looks out the front windshield.

Jimmy senses that she sees something. He flips the camera

around through the front only to see a row of cop cars

blocking the highway up ahead.

He flips the camera back at her.

Judy looks straight ahead, determination on her face.

She won't answer.    Then...

She turns the wheel hard to the right, almost carrying Jimmy

into her, and takes the car onto a side road.

Judy is on her own mission.

The car stops short. Jimmy turns the camera to point out the

windshield. They're stuck. The road has come to a dead end.

Judy ignores Jimmy. She throws the car into reverse and

tries to turn it around and head back the way she came.

A faint sound of a helicopter fades up slowly from the

background.

Judy doesn't respond.    She's determined.

Jimmy pans the camera out the front windshield. In the

distance, we catch sight of a road block that's been set up

at the end of the dirt trail. They're screwed. There's

nowhere to go.

Judy doesn't answer.

She still doesn't answer.

Then the car thrusts itself forward.

Judy's got a look of determination in her eye.

Judy doesn't respond. O.C., she's murmuring something to

herself that Jimmy can't hear or understand while she has the

throttle to the floor as they barrel toward the roadblock.

Judy keeps going.    Jimmy flips the back camera towards her.

Judy's murmurs grow louder.

Jimmy braces himself as the car continues toward the

roadblock.

Suddenly, Judy's murmurs get loud enough or us to hear.

They head straight in between two cars that form the

roadblock. Cops jump out of the way as the car hits head on

into...

THE ROADBLOCK

Impact sends the camera flying against the windshield,

CRACKING IT.

Sounds of metal twisting and glass shattering is all

encompassing as the camera shakes in a violent frenzy!

Camera settles on Judy's face, bloody, unconscious against

the steering wheel, her neck snapped, eyes open in a death

stare.

Camera stays focussed on Judy for the longest time as she

leans against the steering wheel. Music plays on the radio.

It's JOHNNY CASH's cover of Tom Petty's "I won't Back Down".

OVERHEAD SHOT of a news helicopter flying above the final

scene.

Looking down from above, we see what the helicopter sees:

A scene of about twelve State Trooper cars, lights flashing,

with Jimmy and Judy's car wrecked. Ambulances are there.

Jimmy and Judy's lifeless bodies are pulled from their car as

Johnny Cash's song shifts from background to score.

The helicopter continues its circular pattern as the song

continues and we...

