<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

JURASSIC PARK

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXTREME CLOSEUP of glowing honey-colored stones.  Their shapes ABSTRACT

as THE CAMERA EXAMINES air bubbles and crystalline patterns.

MOVING UP AND OVER this amber abstraction, the CAMERA FINDS unusual

shapes and imperfections caught in the glassy stone:  flecks of dirt,

hairs, cracks.  STILL MOVING.  STARBURSTS OF LIGHT ricochet off the

different surfaces of the stones.

CAMERA TURNS along a creamy stretch of amber.  IT TURNS IN DEEPER,

abstracting the picture further only to find A TINY BLUR that suddenly

RACKS INTO FOCUS - a bug, a mosquito lodged within an amber tomb.  It is

folded on its back.

SLOW MOTION

toward the trapped bug.  Orange flecks fly.  The mosquito trembles.  The

drill continues, stopping just before it touches the tiny body.

A SHINY PAIR of thin needle-nose pliers reach in the borehole and

extricate the mosquito remains.  These are dropped on a brightly lit

glass slide.  A conveyor belt starts, and the slide moves along.

arriving under a long-lensed microscope.

IN MICROSCOPIC PERSPECTIVE, a thin needle pierces the bug and delicately

removes a fragment of tissue.

PINCERS snare the fragment, dropping it into a narrow tube.  The tube

SPINS, faster and faster until it is a BLUR on the screen.

THE SCREEN FLOODS with an INFRA-RED LIGHT.  Gray, oval shapes rock in a

neutral mist.

HOT SUN overhead in a BIG SKY -

EXT  BADLANDS - AFTERNOON

Lodged in the cracked earth are the partially-exposed fossilized remains

of A VELOCIRAPTER, a carnivorous dinosaur.  WIDEN OUT to a SWEEPI

NG

PANORAMA of a dinosaur dig, a major excavation filled with workers

shoveling earth and stone, making measurements, taking photographs,

scribbling notes, and conferring with each other.

The center of all this activity is one man.  In a roped-off area that

circumscribes the exposed bones of the raptor, is DR. ALAN GRANT, head

paleontologist.  Good-looking, late 30's, with a think beard.

Grant lies on his belly, completely absorbed in a small piece of bone.

A GROUP OF TWELVE STUDENTS, notebooks in hand, await his next sentence.

CLOSE ON - the tiny bone.  Grant's nose touches it.

Grant brushes the bone with a toothbrush.  Then he decides on a quicker

way to clean it.  He licks it.  Excited by his discovery, he gets to his

feet and addresses his students, who listen raptly.

Students look at each other.  A tentative hand.  Grant continues.

OFFSCREEN, a woman SHOUTS to him.

Grant looks up.

DR. ELLIE SATTLER, late 20's, sharp-eyed, tough if she wants to be, runs

like a gazelle across the arid land.  Exuberant, she leaves a trail of

dust behind her.

She zips by A STUDENT guarding the cordoned area.  He tries to stop her.

Dr. Grant waves her over enthusiastically with his bone and continues.

Uncertain students.  Ellie arrives and immediately gets into it.

Grant turns around to her and smiles.  She's got it.  Other students to

- they knew is all along.

No answer.  Ellie gives it a try.

Ellie jumps up.

Students laugh.  One student eyes Grant's self-conscious smile at Ellie.

Ellie intrudes again.

She points.  On the horizon, a limousine speeds toward them, leaving a

dusty wake.

Grant sets the rules for his departure, giving instructions individually

as Ellie pulls him away, carrying their bags.

Grant and Ellie continue walking.  She interrupts his continued barrage.

ery scientist stuck to his

Grant stops at the sight of the stopped limo and freezes.

Ellie is gentle.  She's telling him something they've discussed before.

Then, half-kidding with Ellie:

She laughs.  But he can't quite leave.  He grabs a computer printout

Skip turns the printout right-side up in Grant's hand.  Grant smiles.

Grant and Ellie board the limo amidst many goodbyes from the students.

The limo pulls away.

EXT  HIGH TECH BUILDING - BIOGENETIC CORPORATION HQ - SUNSET

A purple sunset irradiates the exterior glass walls of the building.

INT  BIOGEN HQ

A peanut flies in the air.  Then falls into a big open mouth.  THOMP.

He tosses another peanut and misses his open mouth.  This is DENNIS

NEDRY, a 40 year old computer programmer.  He's fat, with greasy hair

and a permanently wrinkled suit.  His slovenly looks are wildly out of

place on the rich leather sofa where he reclin

es.

Across a gleaming granite coffee table is BILL BAKER, businessman.  A

smooth meticulous dresser, Baker is disgusted by Nedry's sloppy

appearance and voracious consumption of food and drink.

Nedry finishes a coke.  Over his shoulder is an impressive skyline view.

Nedry holds the can of coke upside-down, drains the last drops.

Nedry chuckles, lines up three peanuts on the table.  One after the

other, he throws them in the air.  He gulps down two, misses one. It

skids across the glossy floor.

Baker's head involuntarily cocks as he looks disgustedly at Nedry.

As Nedry continues he shovels nuts into his mouth and CHOMPS and SPEAKS.

Nedry starts the LAUGH as he EATS and TALKS.

Nedry LAUGH

S explosively.  He begins to choke, COUGHING and GASPING.

Baker is repulsed.  He stares out the window as the sun sets.

Nedry, in true distress, clutches his own throat.  He clumsily runs

toward Baker, toppling chairs as he goes.  Nedry grabs Baker's hand and

squeezes it tightly, imploring Baker for help.  Baker coolly shakes his

hand loose and shoves Nedry to the floor.  Baker looks down at the prone

and desperate Nedry.

Bakers kneels down next to Nedry, who is beginning to turn blue.

Baker glances at his watch.

Nedry makes a superhuman effort just to nod his head.  Baker nods back

and SLAMS his fist into Nedry's solar plexus.  It works.

Nedry sucks in a huge gulp of air.  He sits up

, rubbing his belly.  As

Baker leaves the room:

CAMERA LEAVES NEDRY and exits the window.    IT SWISHPANS the concrete

canyons of Wall Street and enters another office.

INT  CONSERVATIVE LAW OFFICE - DAY

DONALD GENNARO, handsome,  meticulously dressed, paces the highly

polished, glassy corner suite.  His boss, ROSS, is seated.  He's a

powerful black man who waves a prosthetic arm.

S

Gennaro tosses a list on Ross' desk.  He check it out.

Gennaro shakes hands

awkwardly with Ross and leaves.  Ross paces.  Fed-

up, he whispers to himself.

He whacks his desk globe, sends its spinning.

CAMERA MOVES IN on spinning globe as we HEAR the ROTOR BLADES of a

helicopter and DISSOLVE TO:

INT/EXT  HELICOPTER IN SKY - DAWN

On the helicopter tail is a little blue logo that reads: Isla Nublar.

INSIDE, Grant, Ellie and Gennaro are in the right back row.  Ellie

dozes, her head occasionally dropping onto Grant's shoulder, to his

discomfort.  Gennaro looks at papers, trying not to look through the

clear plexi-bubble at their feet.  Next to THE PILOT, Nedry chews a

candy bar.  He offers candy to the back row.

Grant loses himself, looking out the window.

GRANT'S POV - the aquamarine blue of the ocean.  Below the waters there

are the shadows of ample marine life.  Dolphins leap in the air.

Suddenly the clear scene becomes obscured by clouds.

There is turbulence.  Ellie wakes, glances at Grant, then out the

window.

There is mist and she absently traces her finger in it, shaping

a dinosaur figure.  Now land comes into view and for a moment, the

island below them eerily fits right into her doodling.

Gennaro cinches his belt tightly and half-shuts his eyes.  Nedry takes

out a sandwich and cockily loosens his belt.  Ellie looks every way.

Grant looks out his window. The helicopter rushes forward, low to the

water.  Ahead, Grant sees the island, rugged and craggy, rising sharply

The pilot coughs and rubs his goggles with the back of his hand.

Grant nods.  Gennaro sweats, watching the pilot tighten his own belt.

Ellie

FOG.  Grant can't see a thing out his window.  Ellie's startled.

No answer.  Grant dimly discerns green branches of pine trees through

the mist.  Some are very close.  Ellie's hands grasps her seat cushion.

Grant looks through the plexi-bubble at his feet.  He sees the giant

glowing fluorescent cross below.  Lights FLASH at corners of the cross.

The copter suddenly SHAKES violently.  Ellie grabs Grant's hand.

Gennaro sits straight up, eyes squeezed shut.

Another violent shake.  Grant squeezes Ellie's hand back.

CLOSEUP - Nedry's hand crushes a

packet of crackers.

Gennaro is soaked.  He opens one eye and looks about, very frightened.

He speaks a mantra.

The pilot whispers to himself and corrects slightly.  The copter sails

sharply the other way.

CLOSE ON - the pilot jerks back the stick.

THE COPTER zooms upward.  Grant's beverage flips to the ground, pours

across the floor.

Nedry's lunch does flying.  Sandwich, candy, and cracker crumbs hang

suspended in the air.  Now it all FREE-FALLS onto Nedry's lap.

Grant and Ellie lean tightly into each other,

The pilot swings his gaze, left then right, looking at the pine forest.

Trees are close, then far, then close.  The helicopter drops rapidly.

Ellie and Grant shut their eyes.  They brace themselves for the worst.

IN AND OUT OF THE MIST, the copter descends.  Tail raised high, nose

low, fo

r a moment it looks like a strange bug-eyes prehistoric animal

bucking in its pen.  In a flash, it corrects itself.  The copter touches

down on a heli-pad.  The SOUND of the rotors fades and dies.

For a second, no one moves.  Grant lets out a great sigh of relief.

Gennaro mouths a silent prayer.  The pilot stretches his fingers.

Grant and Ellie self-consciously shake their hands free of each other.

Nedry unbuckles and laughs as he brushes off his lap.  He turns:

Nedry pats Grant on his shoulder.

Nedry bursts out laughing again as he heads out the helicopter door.

A smile comes across Gennaro's face.  As he smiles he motions with his

hands he doesn't mean any harm.  Grant and Ellie stare at him.

ROTORS TURN.  OUTSIDE, a man reaches the copter.  He wears a baseball

cap over short red hair and he's dressed in phony safari garb.  He

shakes Gennaro's hand.  This is ED REGIS, 35, head of Public Relations.

He throws open the copter door next to Grant.  Big, cheerful smile.

Ellie and Grant jump into the world of Jurassic Park.

EXT  LUSH TROPICAL FOREST - MORNING

Grant takes in the beautiful tropical terrain.  This place is the

opposite of the Badlands.  There is elaborate planting everywhere:

huge, hairy ferns; exotic, spiked flowers; berries of every color;

rushing vines.  Peeking through the thick greenery are beautiful birds

a

nd flying squirrels.  The strange, prehistoric world impresses Grant

and Ellie.  Even Nedry and Gennaro take in the vegetal wonder.

Then, the SOUND of men working, grunting from exertion.  Ahead, Muldoon

directs A GROUP OF WORKMEN.  Flame-throwers roar and machetes fight back

the abundant foliage.  As they attack a new area, Regis waves Muldoon

over.  Muldoon has a pronounced limp as he walks over to join them.

Muldoon rests his rifle by a tree stump and shakes with Grant and Ellie.

Gennaro nods warmly as Muldoon limps back to work.

Regis leads on, taking Gennaro's arm and talking to him like and old

friend.  Nedry lumbers in the middle, alone.  At the rear, Grant and

Ellie study everything they see.  Grant

Ellie looks behind and sees cramped ferns spring out to capture the path

they just walked on.  She nudges Grant, who has seen the same.

A distinct HOOTING in the distance.  Then a loud TRUMPETING.  Grant and

Ellie stop.  Nedry doesn't look up.  Regis flashes his salesman's smile.

They pass a crude sign nailed to a tree:  Welcome to Jurassic Park.

Grant cringes at the sign.  Ellie nudges him to loosen up.

Gennaro wipes his brow.  They enter a green tunnel of over-arching palm

that leads to the

VISITOR'S CENTER, a modern complex in the distance.

Ellie notices a large fence hidden in the brush.  She nudges Grant.

THEIR POV - CAMERA SLOWLY CLIMBS a fifteen foot high chain-link fence.

The needle-spiked top of this fence cuts deep into the brush.

This fence is only the prelude.

Sprawling massively above and behind it is a thirty foot high fence.

Woven throughout the fence's mesh is an intricate system of electrical

wire.  There is a prominent warning:  DANGER!  ELECTRIC FENCE: TEN

THOUSAND VOLTS - KEEP OFF!

CAMERA KEEPS CLIMBING to the top:  ominous barbed wire, curled into the

highest growth with coiled razors glistening in the sun.

Grant strains to understand.  The quickens his steps to catch the others.

They reach a clearing with an unfinished brick sidewalk and potted shade

trees waiting for planting.  A crosshatching of tiny lizards scamper off

the walk.  An empty swimming pool is being filled by A MAN with a pumper

truck.  Next to him, WORKERS water the large ferns.

Regis points to a low building with glass pyramids on the roof.

A CRANE lowers an iron grating on top of one pyramid.  An animal TRUMPETS.

INT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY

CLOSE ON - the iron security grating as it fits over a glass skylight.

Above, MASKED WORKERS weld it on.  Sparks fly.

Grant stares up at it, thinking.  Footsteps echo behind him as Regis,

Ellie, Gennaro, and Nedry look around the unfinished building.

The Visitor's Center is two stories high, a lot of glass with exposed

girders and supports.  It's incomplete:  vines swing in the breeze where

the back wall will go and undressed cables litter the floor.  Even so,

exhibit areas are in varying stages of completion.  Behind, SEVERAL

SPANISH WORKERS unpack masonry supplies.

Grant strides over to an exhibit as Gennaro paces impatiently.

Regis smiles apologetically and pushes open a large window on one of the

finished walls.  Giant leaves and vines burst inside.

Grant studies an exhibit in progress entitled When Dinosaurs Rules the

World.  This is a large clock that presents millions of years as hours

in a single day.  Many brightly colored hours are allocated to the

dinosaurs.  Man receives the last second of the day.  Ellie joins Grant.

Grant smiles at her inexhaustible enthusiasm.  He looks at a painted

mural of a Raptor on one of the walls in the half-completed gift shop.

Nedry is at a coke machine, feeding in change

.  It doesn't work.  He

SLAMS his hand against it, and finally, a cup drops down the chute.

Upside-down.  It pours.  Coke splashes Nedry.  He curses and exits.

THE ROTUNDA - Ellie pulls Grant over to a raised, round display with a

catwalk.  In this unfinished display, a skeletal T-Rex and a Raptor are

locked in combat.  Scaffolding is up around it, and painting supplies

are scattered all around.

Regis glances at his watch, looks up, and smiles.

At that moment, doors adjacent to the rotunda swing open automatically.

A soothing female voice comes out of the public address system.

The voice goes on to give this information in a number of languages.

Regis waves everyone into the theater.   Nedry doesn't join them.  He

climbs the stairs to the second floor.

INT  SCREENING ROOM - DAY

Small and plush.  Regis sits in the front, full of enthusiasm.  Grant and

Ellie sit further behind.

CELESTIAL MUSIC fills the room.  Mist covers and curls on the stage

floor.  Colored spotlights illuminate the mist in an eerie fashion.

overall effect is the touristy Where's NY? high-gloss production.

years young, with a glint in his eye and very comfortable with his own

effect.  He wears a white linen suit with a red rose in the breast

pocket.  Like an elder Carl Sagan, he addresses the group.

ravel the mystery

ON GRANT - he whispers to Ellie.

BACK ON HAMMOND - he warms to his subject.

ON GRANT - confirmed in his thinking, he whispers again.

BACK ON HAMMOND - he concludes.

Nothing will ever be the same again.

MUSIC SOARS.  Hammond smiles appreciatively, removes his rose.  A screen

descends behind him.

Another Hammond appears, projected on the screen beside the real one.

IN THE AUDIENCE - Ellie laughs aloud.  Grant, shaking his head, smiles.

BACK ON HAMMOND - The original speaks to the clone.

Hammond holds his rose to the screen the pricks his clone's finger with

a thorn.

The clone dissolves into a cascade of blood as WE SEE a magnified view

of the bloodstream.  ANIMATION begins which illuminates the parts of the

blood and its actions.  Hammond provides voiceover for the visuals.

lit in half and reproduce itself.

Back to the two Hammond's.  Joined by a third, then a fourth, and so on

until the screen is crammed with Hammond's, elbowing each other for room.

New mist fades out this show.  The lights go up.  Regis applauds.  Grant

joins in the laughter with Ellie and Gennaro.

Hammond jumps down from the stage and greets Gennaro and Regis.

Hammond greets Grant and Ellie warmly.  Then

Hammond baits Grant.

s nothing to do with

Hammond turns to Gennaro.  Gennaro smiles nervously at their clash.

EXT  A SPRAWLING LAWN - DAY

Outside, Hammond leads Gennaro, Grant and Ellie.  He points out the

staff living quarters, a group of graceful teepees.  Next to their

homes, WORKERS hang laundry and cook on grills.

They pass a large Mechanical Building.  The generator housed within is

very LOUD.  The wind increases, rippling clothes.

Suddenly, the SOUND of a speeding jeep.  Grant turns.

Racing across the rolling green landscape is A RED JEEP.  Muldoon is

at

the steering wheel.  Two kids bounce happily around in the open jeep.

They are TIMMY, 9, and LEX, 6, brother and sister.  The jeep stops.

Hammond looks up, delighted.  Arms open.  Gennaro pulls him close.

Hammond waves to the children.

Hammond beams to Grant and Ellie and indicates the running kids.

Lex jumps right into her Grandpa's arms.  Timmy s

hyly walks up and

embraces him.  Hammond shines.  Gennaro holds in his fury.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - DAY

Hammond ushers his guests into his own richly appointed baronial suite.

Ellie looks out a small window at the tee-pees and the contrasting

lifestyle below.  She then focuses on the high fence, circling the

perimeter of Hammond's quarters.  Above is a skylight, with metal bars.

Grant whispers to her, indicating the obviously modified window frame.

Timmy smacks him forehead, points to Grant.

duate students.

Hammond smiles intensely.  But he's patient.  He stands be a huge table

covered with a sumptuous velvet drape.

Lex peeks under the cloth.  Hammond smiles at her and recovers the table.

worlds.  I set out

BEAT.

CAMERA PUSHES IN on Grant's incredulous face.

Hammond whips off the drape, revealing a complex and detailed scale

model of the entire resort.

tific conservatory,

Hammond grins with delight.

Grant and Ellie come forward to examine the model.  The kids crowd in.

CAMERA SNORKELS through the model - revealing different enclosures with

miniature dinosaurs, moats, fences, roads, a river.

Hammond excitedly punches a button - colored display grids light up.

Hammond's proud, excited face shifts to one that divulges modestly.

INT  HALLWAY, UPPER FLOOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY

Hammond leads Grant, Ellie, Gennaro, Timmy, and Lex out of an elevator

and down an endless corridor.  A WORKMAN ON CRUTCHES passes them.

They go through a series of security doors.  To get them open, Hammond

places his palm on a screen before each door.  Each time, it lights up

with an x-ray-like image of

his hand and each door HISSES open.

CLOSEUP - Security x-ray. of Hammond's hand.  BEEP.  A red line writes

through the screen.  Can't get in.  Complaining, under his breath:

Hammond tries again.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - DAY

The door HISSES open, revealing an elaborate technology-crammed room.

In dim light, clusters of computer consoles and video monitors glow.

Nedry sits in a corner at a keyboard with a pile of papers next to him,

typing away.  JOHN ARNOLD, 45, park supervisor, sits directing the

activities of the park and chain-smoking.  There are large windows

looking out to the park, one of which is cracked and being replaced from

the outside by a TEAM OF WORKMEN.

Hammond wears a big smile as he leads in his entourage.  He's the

ringmaster.

aster control operator.

Arnold exhales smoke and waves good-naturedly.  Nedry stares darkly at

Hammond, who ignores him.

Hammond points up.  Overlooking the control room and the park is a

raised platform with a huge chair, like a throne in a court.  A large

video screen faces this chair.

They practically race as a group to keep up with Hammond.  The security

door seals shit, leaving Nedry and Arnold alone again.

BACK ON HALLWAY -

Hammond and his group turn off the corridor and reach a door marked:

CAUTION: Teratogenic Substances.  Timmy backs off, grabs Lex's arm.

He contorts his face into strange shapes.  As Hammond leads them all in

Lex pulls on his pocket.

Gennaro frowns.  The door opens and Lex peeks in.

INT  AMBER ROOM, LABORATORY - CONTINUING ACTION

Grant and Ellie share a baffled look.  Grant stares.

Grant's POV - PAN ACROSS a room filled with honey-colored glowing stones

arranged on glass shelves in large pull-out trays.  Each stone is tagged

and numbered.

Grant leans down, studying the stones.  He bumps right into Gennaro.

Lex jumps excitedly.

Grant shushes the kids and looks to Hammond.

Grant and Ellie nod impatiently.

INT  EXTRACTION ROOM, LABORATORY

A TECHNICIAN carefully positions a piece of amber under a fine-pointed

drill.  With a nod, the technician's goggles drop from his forehead onto

his eyes and he starts up the drill.  Hammond yells over the loud WHIRR.

CLOSE ON - drillbit boring into the amber.  Orange fleck fly.

The technician shuts the drill.  Placing his hands into a mounted pair

of gloves, he operates an automated pair of needle-nose pliers to

carefully lift out the remains of a mosquito.  He drops this bug on a

slide and places this slide on a tray full of such slides.

A conveyor belt starts, carrying this tray on to the NEXT TECHNICIAN.

The group follows.  This technician puts the first slide under a

microscope.  Grant watches on a video monito

r as the tech inserts a long

needle into the prehistoric bug.

INT  GENETICS ROOM

A LOUD HUMMING SOUND.  Along the walls are rows of waist-high stainless

steel boxes.  In the room's center are two six-foot-high round towers.

At a single console, a man studies a monitor.

DR. WU, 35, looks up from his study and beams at his guests.  He jumps

up and knocks over his cup of coffee.  ASSISTANTS clean the area as Wu

comes forward and actually hugs Grant, much to Grant's embarrassment.

He kisses Ellie, who takes

it in stride.  Gennaro, We already knows.

Hammond and Wu resume the tour.

al trillion

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY

A vast room bathed in infrared light, filled with long tables.  The

first tables have rows and rows of centrifuges, each bearing dozens of

test tubes.  Wu leads the group.

Wu shrugs.

survives, we

Grant and Ellie share a concerned look.

Wu indicates a cabinet of chemicals with skull-and-crossbone warnings.

Timmy regards the poison with excitement.

Lex calls from deeper in the room.

Here, plastic eggs lay on the long tables, their pale outlines obscured

by a grey mist that covers the tables.  The eggs are all gently rocking

as TECHNICIANS roam up and down the aisles.

Hammond walks ahead of the group.  As Wu speaks, Hammond listens and

enjoys it as though he's hearing it for the first time.

Timmy smiles at Grant.  Hammond winks at Timmy.

Lex feigns a faint, Timmy cracks a small smile. They move forward,

waist-deep in the mist.  A strange green light emanates from the

incubators.  Lex is half-consumed by the mist. She mimics the witch.

Ellie laughs and pulls Lex close.

Wu nods.  Hammond just enjoys the scene as Grant and Ellie watch a

thermal sensor moving from one egg to the next, touching each with a

flexible wand, beeping.  Lex and Timmy let their hands glide over the

sides of the green glowing incubators fully awed by the strange, big

eggs they hold.

Grant that very close to an egg.  He sniffs it.

They reach an endless row of incubators, lined up along the wall,

beneath a viewing area like those found in an OB-GYN ward.

e

Hammond claps a hand over Wu's mouth and laughs.

As they exit the CAMERA PANS the misty aisles, studying the eggs.

EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY

Blue shadows of clouds sweep across an expansive green hill in front of

the Visitor's Center.

Grant and Hammond make their way down below to the loading area for the

park tour.  A little ahead is Gennaro and Ellie.  Gennaro chatters on

while Ellie energetically explores the area, looking at the plants.

FURTHER UP THE HILL, moving slowly, Hammond eyes the pair suspiciously.

At the base of the hill Timmy and Lex toss a baseball.

EXT  TOUR START - DAY

The group gathers.  TWO ELECTRIC CARS glide to a stop behind them.

Regis leans out of the first one.

The kids pile in next to Regis and explore the high-tech cars.  Timmy

finds a a pair of very think, strange-looking goggles with dials on top.

Grant, Ellie, and Gennaro climb in the second car.

The cars begin to move and pass Hammond.  He waves.

Gennaro looks back as the cars turn into the brush.  Hammond waves.

In the cruiser, Gennaro rubs his neck.  He turns to Grant.

Ellie motions ahead, with excitement and apprehension, to a huge gate.

Regis and the kids wave behind to Grant, Ellie and Gennaro.

The gate's doo

rs swing open and the cruisers move forward.  The kids

squeal out a YA-HOO that floats through the air to Grant.  But Grant

wears a cautious face, his skeptical eyes scan the landscape.

A FANFARE of trumpets and then a pre-recorded voice speaks from a

console in each cruiser.  Video screens display a welcome message.

Regis uses his walkie-talkie to contact Grant's cruiser.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, FIRST TOUR STOP - DAY

Between massive tree trunks, a spectacular view:  stor

m clouds touch

mountaintops.  Below, the lagoon ripples in pink crescents.

All eyes swing that way.  Grant doesn't see a thing.  Nor do the others.

AHEAD, Timmy pulls the binoculars out of the equipment pouch and studies

the location.  Lex grabs the night goggles.  Timmy pulls them from her.

IN THE SECOND CAR, a fly buzzes on Grant's windshield.  Grant hangs out

his window almost sniffing the air for some movement.  Nothing.

SUDDENLY the trees in front of them move!  A deep trumpeting SOUND and

TWO BRACHIOSAURS rumble away fr

om the side of the road.  The ground

SHAKES as they walk, their BELLOWING fills the air.  Led by Grant, the

passengers rise through the open top of their Land Cruisers, to look up

at the dinosaurs far above.

DROOPING FROM ABOVE, leaves and little branches shower on Grant.  Utter

amazement fills Grant's face, then his mouth breaks into a giant smile

then a laugh.  He simply can't believe his eyes. His laugh becomes

raucous and euphoric.

Behind him, Ellie's whole person is awestruck, immobile.  Gennaro

squints, straining to make sense of this unbelievable reality.

IN THE CAR AHEAD, Lex and Timmy stare open-mouthed.  Regis looks at the

animal and then at the group's reverie.  He smiles knowingly: he's been

there, too.  He bends and whispers:

The

GRANT CAN'T stop laughing.  Still chewing, a brachiosaur cranes down to

peer at this laughing man.  The brachiosaur's huge head stops inches

away from Grant.  Grant, awestruck, stares and them -

CLOSE ON - Grant as his eyes slowly roll back and ... he faints.

The dinosaur casually moves away as Ellie comes to Grant's aid.

Gennaro waves to Regis that all is okay.  Grant slowly revives.  He

looks back at the brachiosaur, groggily, smiling away.  He looks at

Ellie and their eyes linger on each other longer than usual, sharing a

look of serene delight.

Gennaro plops back in his seat and ponders the scene before him.  A

glazed look fills his face.

CAMERA PUSHES IN on the majestic, gentle beauty of the Brachiosaurs.

JUNGLE SOUNDS DOMINATE, growing l

ouder and louder.

INT CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Hammond sits at his throne, happily watching the huge video screen which

displays the tour group.  He laughs raucously and calls to Arnold.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, SECOND TOUR STOP - DAY

The cruisers come to a stop.  In the distance, A HERD OF GALLIMIMUS

graze.  They stand on their hind legs to get at high palm trees, then

drop gracefully down on all fours to chew.  BABY GALLIMIMUS scamper

around the adults, eating leaves that drop from the larger animals.

Grant do

esn't listen.  He is simply intoxicated with the pastoral beauty

of the gentle, grazing dinosaurs.  Suddenly, he looks away with a deep

concern.  Ellie looks at him questioningly.

Ellie smiles at him, puzzled.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, THIRD TOUR STOP - DAY

A lovely mossy clearing.  And to the side, bounded just by a thicket of

bushes, a precipitous drop to a tropical river, lus

h and clear.  The

river runs fast but it is narrow.  On the other side is a sharp rise.

Standing on that natural pedestal and watching our tour come to a stop

are TWO DILOPHOSAURUS, man-sized dinosaurs with gills that hang around

their necks.  Grant and Ellie chime in with the pre-recorded voice.

Timmy and Lex point enthusiastically.  Regis holds them down with a

gentle but restraining arm.

Their distinctive HOOT drifts across the afternoon air.

inosaurs, there's a liability

CLOSEUP of the nearly motionless Dilophosaurus.  One yawns wide.

The Spitters bound off as Grant watches, transfixed.  A flock of birds

burst from a tree and cross the sky.  Trees filter the light.

EXT  RAPTOR PIT - DAY

A big hole in the ground, covered with a think wire mesh.  Suddenly, a

dark claw pushes against the wire web. A SHOWER OF SPARKS.  A SCREECH

animals GROWL and SNARL.  An animal slams its face into the mesh.  SPARKS

illuminate a set of RAZOR-SHARP TEETH.

Muldoon stands next to the pit, carefully loading an assault rifle.

Hammond comes in a hurry.  Muldoon sees Hammond and puts down the rifle.

He walks to Hammond, talking before he gets there.

Hammond starts to walk away.  Muldoon follows, he's not finished at all.

Hammond laughs warmly.  He pats Muldoon on the back.

Hammond walks away.  Muldoon stares after him, jingling keys in his

hand.  Muldoon lumps over to A WORKER.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Hammond enters and crosses to his throne.  Hammond swivels to Arnold who

exhales smoke.  Nedry looks over, keeps typing.

ere are they?  Punch 'em up.

Arnold smiles and punches a button.  WE HEAR the pre-recorded tour voice

and some chatter of the kids.

EAVESDROPPING on the tour IS INTERRUPTED by a radio transmission to the

control room.  Arnold slides over and shuts off the tour monitoring.

The picture on the video screen is now of a cargo boat at a dock.

Nedry looks up quickly, listening carefully.

Hammond reacts with quiet dismay.  Nedry quietly gets up.

He's ignored.  Arnold defers to Hammond who leans to the microphone.

Hammond thanks him and signs off.  Arnold looks at the darkening clouds.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, FOURTH TOUR STOP - LATE AFTERNOON

The cars twist through dense vegetation with a GRINDING of gears.  The

first car comes to a jerky stop.

There is a huge TRICERATOPS lying on its side, moving very slowly,

breathing laboriously.  HARDING, the tall, balding park vet, kneels on

the ground.  He peers into the animal's mouth with a large flashlight.

Before the second car can stop completely, Grant leaps out, races to the

trike.  Regis tries to restrain the kids but they chase Grant and Ellie.

Grant joins Harding on the ground.  The trike lets out a low MOAN.

She's too sick to move.  Ellie and Lex squat by the animal.

eks she gets like this.

Grant very gently opens the Trike's mouth.

A dark purple tongue droops limply from her mouth.  Ellie shines the

light on it, illuminating silvery blisters.  Gennaro turns away.

Grant scratches one of the blisters with his ball-point pen.  It oozes.

The kids share a grossed-out look.

Grant starts to look around.

e eat?  Where does she feed?

Grant studies the nearby grass and bushes.  Timmy quietly follows Grant.

Ellie lifts a huge eyelid on the triceratops.  A runny eye just stares.

Grant comes up triumphantly with a bouquet of weeds clutched in his

hand.  These weeds have little purple berries.  Ellie looks over.

Regis keeps a babysitter's eye on the kids.  Timmy comes up with a

handful of smooth stones.  He approaches Grant shyly.

s lots of little piles of these?

Grant fingers one distractedly, then suddenly comes to attention.

Ellie gets up, brushes herself off, comes over and examines the stone.

She and Grant smile and each other and nod.  Gennaro is curious.

e stones, she swallows them

A light RAIN begins.  Automatically, with a soft hiss, the glass roofs

of the cruisers slide shit.  Gennaro taps Regis and indicates the cars.

Grant agrees, heads for the cruisers.  He turns and looks for Ellie.

Ellie stands by the Trike.  She gives Grant a meaningful look.

Grant smiles at her decision.

Gennaro climbs in with Grant.  The two cruisers start off and Timmy

turns backward to stare wistfully at Grant.  Regis and Lex wave to the

Trike.  Grant looks back to Ellie who has already begun to work.

ON TRIKE - a mosquito lands on its back.  The trike's tail slaps it dead.

INT  MACHINE ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

With difficulty, Nedry shoves his large body down the crawl space behind

a large rack of electronic equipment.  He stops and uses a suction cup

device to lift a section of the tiled floor.  He gropes among cables and

pulls out a small wireless radio.  He transmits:

Nedry returns the radio to its hiding place.  He sucks in his gut to

make the crawl out of  the narrow space.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, T-REX FEEDING AREA - DUSK

The cruisers stop on the rise of a hill.  They over look a forested area,

sloping down to the edge of the lagoon.

Farther south, they see the graceful necks of the brachiosaurs standing

at the water's edge.  Their bodies, mirrored in the moving surface,

break apart with the continuing drops of rain.  Hear lightning rhythmic-

ally pulses the sky.  All is quiet except for the soft drone of cicadas

and the tapping of light rain.

Regis calls Grant on the walkie-talkie.

Rex?

ON GRANT - as he takes that in, nodding to himself. Studies the land.

OVER WALKIE - Regis laughs, his voice tinny over the radio.

They hear A SOFT BLEATING.  In the center of the field, a small cage

rises into view, lifted on hydraulics from underground.  The cage bars

slide down.  A GOAT remains tethered in the field, BLEATING plaintively.

The tour group stares out their windows, expectantly.

BACK ON CONTRO

L ROOM -

Hammond, pleased, watches the giant screen that displays the tour group.

Muldoon limps into the control room.  Arnold looks over.

Muldoon twirls the keys on his fingers and watches the land cruisers.

BACK ON CRUISERS, T-REX FEEDING AREA -

Grant watches quietly.

The BLEATING becomes louder, more insistent.  The goat tugs frantically

at its tether, racing back and forth, kicking.

Grant senses something.  He sits straight up.  Looks out intently.

The goat is tethered in the middle of the fi

eld, thirty yards from the

nearest tree.  Grant scans the tree for the T-Rex.

The goat senses something too.  It struggles and strains, bleating

frantically.  Suddenly the mechanical SOUND of the cage coming up.  Its

bars surround the goat with safety once again.

Lex and Timmy let out a sigh of relief.  The tension is gone.

BACK IN THE CONTROL ROOM -

Hammond studies the large video monitor.  He watches Grant and Gennaro.

Their voices are heard in the control room.

ED)

Hammond glares.  Arnold, aware, shuts off the screen.

Hammond gets up and stands before the big windows overlooking the park.

The quartz FLOODLIGHTS outside their area COME ON with a rosy glow and

the dark jungle is opened again to their inspection.

At his console, Nedry looks at Hamm

ond.  Hammond stares out the window.

The RAIN PICKS UP and bounces off the window.  Hammond speaks to Arnold

without turning.

Arnold picks up the phone.  STATIC.  He glances over at Nedry.

Hammond's annoyed, but contains it.  Arnold looks at Nedry, who smiles.

Nedry punches in a code.

CLOSE ON

- Nedry's fat finger punching a last key.

CLOSE ON - amber video display terminal as a countdown begins.

As the screen counts down from ten to zero, Nedry peers at Hammond with

a steely glint in his eyes.

BACK ON SCREEN - three, two, one, the countdown hits zero.

Nedry's data-filled screen blinks off.  Nedry looks up to the rack of

monitors.  Unnoticed by Hammond or Arnold two more monitors go blank.

Then a third one.

BACK  ON CRUISERS, REST AREA - NIGHT

The electric cars turn up into a scenic area high above the rest of the

park.  HUGE QUARTZ LIGHTS REVEAL a dramatic view down to the ocean.

There the supply ship, the ANNE B, unloads its last crates.

RAIN INCREASES.  On the other side of the road are picnic tables, an

unfinished snack bar and rest rooms.  To the side of this rest area is a

view of the interior of the island.  A guard-rail separates visitors

To the other side of the rest area is a concrete moat and in the back of

this is a tall, electrified fence.  Surrounding the electric fence is a

smaller protective fence.

The kids take off towards the bathroom, running through the rain.  Grant

gets out of his cruiser, strides to Regis.  He indicates the fence.

GENNARO, jacket over his head against the rain, looks down to the ocean.

GENNARO'S POV - THE ANNE B UNLOADS he last cargo crate.

GRANT LOOKS at the concrete moat.  Studies its deep curve.  He looks up

at the tell electrical fence with its 10,000 volt warning.  He sees

conventional power lines on the opposite sid

e of the road.

CAMERA EXAMINES the empty cruisers.  Inside, the pre-recorded voice is

chatting on.  It slows eerily and stops.  Video SCREENS BLINK OUT.

BACK ON CONTROL ROOM -

Nedry yawns loudly.

Nedry leaves.  Hammond swings around and growls under his breath.

INT  UPPER FLOOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - NIGHT

Nedry races through the series of security doors.  He ignores the

security x-ray device and just SHOVES each door open with his hand.

BACK ON CRUISERS, REST AREA -

THE QUARTZ LIGHTS GO OUT, leaving the group in shadowy darkness and now

STEADY RAIN.  There's a ripple of surprise from the group.  Regis rounds

them all up and directs them back into the

cruisers.

The cruisers are STILL.  IN THE REAR CRUISER, Gennaro turns to Grant.

A vivid FLASH of LIGHTNING.  IN THE FIRST CAR:  Lex covers her eyes.

Then she looks up at Regis with a frightful face.

Another LIGHTNING FLASH.  Lex cries.  Regis comforts her.

inosaurs.  They're

Timmy looks out the window excitedly.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - NIGHT

All those eggs on tables.  No moving sensors.  Nedry pulls a portable

incubator away from the dozens lined up against the wall.  Its

electrical cord goes flying.  Furiously, Nedry fills the incubator with

eggs, one after the other.

Nedry grabs the handles of the incubator and runs with it.  The

incubator careens on one wheel as he turns the corner and exits.

BACK ON CONTROL ROOM -

Hammond looks out the large window as the LIGHTS EXTINGUISH.  He twirls.

Arnold still examines his console.  He looks out with worry.

Wu smashes through the door.

The camera pushes in on Hammond's face.

Hammond storms out.

INT  CORRIDOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - CONTINUING ACTION

Hammond enters the hall.  Muldoon, racing from the other direction, yells:

Muldoon is already running back the way he came.

INT  GARAGE - NIGHT

Several electric land cruisers are stored in this shadowy room.  There

is a glassed-in area where Muldoon's weapons are stored:  assault

rifles, tasers, tear gas canisters.

To the side of the garage s Muldoon's red jeep.  In the passenger side

of the front seat is a rocket launcher.

Nedry storms in, wheeling his incubator.  He stop suddenly and listens.

Approaching FOOTSTEPS.

INT  BASEMENT STAIRS, VISITOR'S CENTER -

Muldoon runs down a long corridor, stop with a skid and yanks open the

door to the garage.  He runs out.  His boots RESOUND on the concrete.

BACK ON - NEDRY'S PANICKED FACE as he listens to the footsteps.

Wheezing, with great difficulty, Nedry bends his knees and strains.  With

everything he's got, he lifts the incub

ator waist-height.  And holds it.

BACK ON MULDOON - Muldoon's footsteps ECHO as they come closer and closer

to the garage.  Muldoon whips down the curve in the stairs.  His jacket

catches on an incomplete section of banister. Yanks him to a stop.

CLOSE ON - Muldoon's jacket as it RIPS, stays caught.

BACK ON - NEDRY as he tries to heave higher, can't.  Beads a sweat roll

down his brow.

MULDOON FREES HIS caught jacket and then keep going.

Nedry's face drips with sweat.  The incubator slips out of his sweaty

palms.  Catches it with his knee.  Nedry curses and with one forceful

boost, he lifts the incubator shoulder height.

CLOSE ON - Muldoon's feet on long stairwell. BOOM. BOOM. BOOM.

NERVOUS, NEDRY BREATHES in a labored fashion.  He looks this way and

that.  He closes his eyes and with one superhuman effort, he heaves the

incubator into the back seat of the red jeep.  Nedry exhales.

At that moment, MULDOON ENTERS the vestibule between stairs and garage.

NEDRY EYES the shadowy figure in the vestibule.

Nedry's frightened face.

MULDOON STOPS and reaches in his belt.  He pulls out his pistol.  He

takes out long, shiny cartridges.  He loads the pistol.

NEDRY LEAPS in the front of the jeep, pushing aside the rocket launcher,

and zooms into the night.

A moment later, Muldoon enters the garage.  He sniffs at the exhaust

that still hangs in the air.  He looks over and is surprised to see his

jeep gone.  He bends and inspects fresh tread marks. He looks up, his

face straining to understand.

EXT  PARK ROAD - NIGHT

Nedry's red jeep flies down the park road.

CLOSE ON - Nedry's wheel as he turns it.

His tires skid sideways, then regain traction.  The jeep bolts up a

smaller access road.  He skids to a stop at the top of the hill.

Nedry jumps out and looks up.  His high beams illuminate a huge electric

fence prominently labeled:  DANGER!  10,000 Volts!

Two safety fences separate Nedry from the electric fence.  He races to

the first one, pulls out a key chain.  He tries one key, then another,

and another.  It f

its.  Nedry unlocks the gate, swings open the door.

Nedry runs to the second gate.  He slips in the mud.  He slides to the

ground, dropping keys in a muddy pool.

CLOSE ON - Nedry's hand frantically fishing for the key chain in the

muddy water.  Got them!   Unlocks the second gate.

He races to the electric fence.  RAIN PELTS him now.  Water beads on his

face.  Lightning flashes on the 10,000 volts warning.

He grabs the gate with his bare hand and swings it open.

Nedry heads back to his jeep, his fat body strobed by its high beams.

He jumps in the jeep and drives through.  Behind him, the open gates

move recklessly in the stormy night.

BACK ON GARAGE

Ellie and Harding pull in, in their own gas-powered jeep.  Muldoon is

waiting for them.  Now there's a rifle slung over his shoulder.  Harding

jumps out of the jeep.

Ellie is concerned, the

n decisive.

They race out.

EXT  DOCK - NIGHT

Headlights blazing in the darkness, Nedry's jeep skids to a stop by the

dock where the ANNE B is preparing to leave.  The water is very choppy.

Nedry jumps out and pulls his incubator to the ground.  He begins to

drag it through the mud, toward the ship.  CAPTAIN FARRELL comes to meet

him, along with A COUPLE MEN, who hoist the incubator easily and carry

it toward the ship.

Nedry pulls an aerosol can out of the baggy crotch of his pants.

CLOSE ON - Nedry sprays a big mound of white foam into his

BACK ON CRUISERS, REST AREA -

Rain drums down on the cruiser.  Timmy stares out at the dark.  Lex

stares nervously out the side window.  Timmy picks up the night goggles

and snaps them on.

He swivels away from the T-Rex paddock and looks out toward the ocean.

He reaches up and adjusts the knob.

TIM'S POV - the fluorescent green image of men untying casting lines on

the boat.

Another LIGHTNING FLASH and Lex SCREAMS and covers her face.  She cries.

Lex clamps her hands over her eyes.  Timmy gently nudges her.

Timmy hands her the night goggles. Lex dries her eyes and takes a peek

with the goggles toward the ocean.

LEX'S POV - the picture streaks but clearly reveals Nedry shouting at

the Captain.  Men heave the incubator onto the ship.

REGIS GRABS th

e walkie talkie and tries to silence Timmy.  He knows he

gets there too late and reluctantly lets Timmy have it back.

ON GRANT - He looks sharply at Gennaro.

ON TIMMY - He looks at Regis.

ON GRANT - He fiddles with the radio in his cruiser.  No r

esponse still.

INT/EXT MULDOON'S JEEP, OTHER BACK ROADS

Muldoon and Ellie drive into the storm.  Suddenly, he slams on his

brakes.  In front of him, a tree has fallen, completely blocking the

road.  Muldoon curses, swerves around, and skids to a stop.

As Muldoon gets out and assesses the situation, Ellie lodges herself

between the tree and the jeep.  She pushes the tree with her strong legs

and moves it a good five feet. Quickly, Muldoon and Ellie drag the tree.

As they struggle.

BACK ON CRUISERS, REST AREA -

IN THE FIRST CAR, Regis drums his fingers on the dashboard.  Timmy wears

his goggles and stares into the rain.  Lex shifts her body around,

trying to get comfortable to rest.

IN THE SECOND CAR, Grant tries the radio to no avail.  Gennaro smokes.

Grant looks forward toward the first cruiser.  He can barely make out

the car in the dark and rain.  Occasionally, LIGHTNING reveals all.

TIMMY PULLS GUM out of his pocket.  Feels a tiny shake, looks around.

He puts it in his mouth, chewing quietly.  SUDDENLY, the whole car

VIBRATES.  Regis' sunglasses jump off the dashboard and fall to the

floor.  The kids look at him.

Lex sits up, looks around groggily.

INT  T-REX PADDOCK - NIGHT

The T-Rex's huge hind feet crash down, one large foot following after

the other in long, powerful strides.

BACK ON CRUISE

RS, REST AREA - FIRST CRUISER

There is a thud, and then a THUD, and then a THUD.   Tim and Lex share a

frightened look.  Now the thud grows LOUDER.  There is a CRASHING SOUND,

the whole cruiser SHAKES.  Then silence.  Then another SHAKE.

CAMERA PUSHES IN TILL CLOSE - Timmy stares out with his night goggles.

TIM'S NIGHTSCOPE POV IN CLOSE - T-Rex paws rest on the electric fence.

Tim takes off his goggles, stares, transfixed.  Regis picks them up.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - of muscular forepaws with pebbled, grainy skin and

thick, curved nails comfortably gripping a thick wire strand.

The T-Rex moves his body forward of the brush, pushes against the fence.

IN THE SECOND CRUISER -

Grant and Gennaro stare out, unseeing in the rain and darkness.

CLOSE ON LEX -

Tears roll down her cheek.  She cries silently with an unknown fear.

Regis pulls the goggles from his eyes, starts to gag, checks it.

Regis turns, looks out the side window, away from the T-Rex.

Regis is shaking uncontrollably.  Suddenly he throws open his door and

bolts off into the rain, leaving the door open.  No move from the Rex.

Regis races by the second cruiser.  Grant stares out at him.

FLASH OF LIGHTNING.  FLASH.  The Rex butts his head.

TIM'S POV - The fence bangs down on top of his cruiser.

Timmy and Lex recoil from the scrape  of the wire mesh against the car.

IN THE SECOND CRUISER -

GRANT AND GENNARO'S POV - through the almost obscuring rain they see the

fallen fence.  An unseen weight pulls on it fur

ther, causing its

electric wire to pop like over-tuned guitar strings.

TIMMY REACHES -

out into the rain for the open door handle.

Another LIGHTNING FLASH and the creature is revealed standing between

the two cruisers, atop the crushed fence.  His head turns back and

forth, he's deciding on his prey.  Grant and Gennaro or Tim and Lex?

Timmy slams the door shut.  He looks directly at the Rex, just a few

feet away.  The Rex turns to him, stares back.

Lex SCREAMS and Timmy claps a hand over her mouth.

There is a whisper over Tim's walkie-talkie.

BACK ON GRANT -

He snaps off the walkie-talkie.

HIS POV - The rain runs in rivulets down the pebbled skin of the

muscular hind legs.  The animal's head is out-of-view, above the

rooftops of the cars.  The Rex lifts its huge hind leg.

The T-Rex slowly circles Grant's cruiser.

BACK ON TIM -

He watches the beast move.

BACK ON GRANT AND GENNARO -

As they twist and turn, trying to find a circling Rex in dark and rain.

The Rex pauses right next to Gennaro's window.  He lowers his head,

looking for movement inside.

CLOSE ON - the beady, expressionless reptilian eye moving in the socket.

Grant whispers, hardly moving his lips.

Gennaro's leg trembles uncontrollably.

IN THE FIRST CRUISER -

Very frightened, Lex discovers a flashlight.  She flicks it on and off,

distracting herself.  The beam shows her eyes full of a quiet panic.

Tim waves his hands in caution.

BACK ON GRANT, GENNARO, AND THE REX -

The Rex bends down, bumps the windshield with his nose.  Just stays

there, breathing heavily.  In the distance, the flashlight goes on

again.  The Rex raises his head suddenly.  Grant g

rabs his walkie.

As the Rex heads off, a casual swipe of his tail SMASHES the side of the

cruiser, throwing Grant and Gennaro across the inside of the car.

ON TIM -

He lunges for the flashlight.  Lex dodges him, keeps it lit.

Tim looks up through the sun roof.  The massive head of the

Tyrannosaurus Rex appears.  Tim watches, transfixed.  Lex looks up.

Irrational with terror, she aims her flashlight like a gun.  Blasts him.

Her flashlight beam cuts through the dark and rain - she sees the beast

plainly for the first time and SCREAMS!

The POOL OF LIGHT bathes the Rex's face.  He smashes his head down onto

the Plexiglass bubble.  It crunches, and falls into the car, crushing

the children.  Tim uses his feet to push it to the side.

Above, the Rex displays is gaping maw, drooling toward the opening.

GRANT -

watches the Rex raise his mighty h

ead again, above the kids' cruiser.

TIMMY AND LEX -

have a half-instant of relief.  Then SLAM.  The Rex butts his head

against the cruiser.  The Rex comes back down, tries to discover his

prey inside the cruiser.  Pushes his head close to the glass, looking.

The dinosaur stands in front of the cruiser, his whole chest heaving,

his forelimbs pawing the air.

Timmy whispers to Lex.

Lex barely nods and grabs Timmy's hand.

The Tyrannosaur places his head next to the car.  He begins to shove the

cruiser with his head.  The cruiser ROCKS.  The back window bursts,

shards go flying.

Inside, the kids are THROWN back and forth, SHOVED against each other,

and finally FLUNG against the top of the car as the cruiser FLIPS.

The whole world TILTS CRAZILY - trunks of palm trees slide by, the

ground above, the blazing eye of the rex, the tops of palm trees.

The cruiser SLAMS DOWN on its side, the windows splat in the mud.  Lex

falls he

lplessly against the side window and lies motionless.  Timmy

falls beside her, banging his head.  He reaches for Lex.

SILENCE.  No movement from Lex.

THE ANIMAL toys with the cruiser.  Like a dog with its bone, the

dinosaur pushes the cruiser along with his head.  He pushes it past the

picnic tables toward the ripped fence and the embankment.  Each shove

sends the children flying again.

The cruiser is pushes closer and closer to the unprotected embankment.

The cruiser slams to a stop completely upside-down.  The T-Rex steps

right on the cruiser, crushing the roof against the ground.

INSIDE - the children crawl for their lives as the car crushes further

down from above and a tidal wave of mud oozes in from the sides.

THE REX - gnaws at the car, grabs a tire with his teeth,  It ruptures

with a pitiful pop.  The Rex grabs at the axle with his teeth, begins to

drag the car back.  THe kids, half-outside, are pulled with the car.

GRANT DANCES -

with a flare!  The Rex is distracted.

CLOSE ON - the Rex as he ROARS.  The flare gleams in his eyes.

The Rex starts toward Grant.  He tosses the flare over the half-standing

part of the fence.  The Rex lunges after the flare.

GENNARO has reached his limit.  Terrorized, he leaps out and SCREAMS:

He bolts.  The Rex sees him and starts after him, THUNDERING by Grant,

who stays frozen in place.

Gennaro sprints for his life.  He's not even a distant match for the T-

Rex jogging behind him.

Gennaro dives into the LADIES ROOM.

INSIDE - he slams the door and shoves the trashcan against the door.

POUNDING FOOTSTEPS APPROACH!  Gennaro backs up into one of the stalls.

LOUDER POUNDING, THE WALLS BEGIN TO VIBRATE!  Gennaro assumes a 'tuck'

position.

ON THE INTERIOR DOOR - The Rex smashes right through the steel-clad

door.  Pieces go flying.

Gennaro hides amidst the wreckage as the Rex sniffs around.

GRANT RUNS BA

CK -

to check on the kids.  He reaches a hand underneath the flipped car,

sitting in the mud.  Lex's soft voice can be heard.

Grant fishes under, finds Lex's hand, drags her out.  He quickly checks

her for broken bones.

Lex SCREAMS.  Grant turns to see the Rex return.  He squeezes Lex tight.

The animal goes right past them, back to his toy - Tim's land cruiser!

The Rex BELLOWS a huge cry.  Timmy awakens and sees the Rex above him.

He SCREAMS.

Lex, squeezed in Grant's arms, sees her imperiled brother.

The Tyrannosaur looks up, GROWLS across the upside-down cruiser, opens

its huge jaws menacingly, all the time staring at Grant and Lex.

INSIDE THE CAR - Timmy tries to unwedge himself.  A thin trickle of

blood runs down his forehead.  He's jammed between the

the bent bench seat.  He can't free himself.

The Rex begins to SHOVE the cruiser toward Grant and Lex.  They back up

but they have very few feet left - they're almost at the embankment.

But if they don't move, they'll by crushed by the oncoming car.

Grant slings Lex onto his back.  She grabs her hands around his neck and

digs her feet into his sides.  Grant begins to climb over the downed

fence and into the embankment - it's a huge drop!

Grant grabs a broken cable and lowers himself and Lex over the side of

the embankment.

Just in time as the Rex SHOVES the cruiser further.  Now, the cruiser

TEETERS right on the edge, turning again on its side.  Tim hangs halfway

out of the car, unable to get out further.

Grant, with Lex on his back, slides down the cable, rappelling down the

embankment.  ABOVE, the car looms over them, rocking on the edge.  Lex

looks up and grabs Grant so tightly, she chokes him, unknowingly.

Grant, eyes bulging, sees the danger from above.  He pushes off the wall

and

- GRABS THE NEXT CABLE just as -

- the T-Rex BELLOWS and lowers her head, and gives a final shove.  Timmy

and the cruiser SAIL INTO SPACE.  Timmy SCREAMS!

Grant and Lex swing out of the way as the cruiser sails past them.  Lex

SCREAMS, squeezing Grant's neck even tighter!   They watch helplessly as

the cruiser BOUNCES off the wall and CRASH-LANDS into the top of a tree

at the base of the wall.

Grant and Lex stare down at the wreck in the tree.  Timmy can't be seen.

Grant, choking from Lex's grip, grabs her fingers.

The Rex ROARS above.  They look up.

THE REX paws the air, GRUNTS in frustration and STALKS off, LIGHTNING

FLASHES.

EXT  NEDRY'S JEEP, BACK ROADS -

Nedry speeds along the rain-slick road, fish-tailing as he goes.

CLOSE ON - Nedry at the wheel.

NEDRY'S POV - the dark, wet road running alongside a ten-foot chain-link

fence.  Suddenly, a beast-like visage blur

s across the road.

Nedry swerves.  The jeep skids.  Nedry tries to over-steer, can't bring

the careening jeep under control.

The jeep crashes though the fence, bounces down a cement culvert, and

dives into a raging gully.

Nedry curses.  He spins the wheel.  The tires spin and spray.  The

jeep's hopelessly stuck in the gully.  From Nedry's seat in the jeep, he

cranes his head around, examining his situation.

NEDRY'S POV - On the opposite side of the gully, there is an equipment

graveyard.  By the titled jeep headlights, steely monsters all around

can be seen - discarded earth movers, graders, and tractors.

Nedry gets out of the jeep, grabs the winch from the jeep's back end.

and wades over to an abandoned tractor.

He loops the winch around the tractor's base.  Suddenly, he stops and

looks around as he hears a gentle HOOTING.  He squints, looking at the

strange steel graveyard lit by the bright beams of the jeep headli

ghts.

HOOT!  HOOT!  A distinctive HOOTING.  Nedry looks up in fear.  SILENCE.

Nedry starts moving toward his jeep.  Again, the HOOT!  Nedry stops,

looks right, looks left.  A RUSTLE in the trees.  Nedry's head cocks.

Looking through trees, lit by the strong beams, Nedry sees a SPITTER in

the eerie mist.  Now it's gone.  Now it's back.  It circles Nedry

warily, hunting him.  Nedry stares.

Nedry scrambles the other way, full-tilt.  Hop, hop, and the Spitter

drops in front of Nedry from the other side.  HOOT!

Nedry jumps back, lands on his butt.  The Spitter zips in from the side

- HOOT!

Nedry doubles back, racing through the abandoned equipment, ducking and

rolling under a cement mixer, spinning past a tree.  He splashes down

the embankment, trying to get to his jeep.  He uses the winch line to

steady himself again the raging current.  He finally reaches the jeep,

swings open the door - and, surging out of the water like a

apparition, is the SPITTER!  Nedry backs away, directly into the glare

of the headlights!

CLOSE ON - the Spitter.  It's plume opens, bright orange gills swell out

like an umbrella around its neck.  Something squirts beneath its jaws.

A big glob SMACKS Nedry on the arm.  He brushes it off.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - the Spitter's head.  The jaws puff, the hood flares

out, the neck snaps forward.  And - it spits.

This glob misses Nedry, splashes off the steaming headlight.

VERY EXTREME CLOSEUP - The Spitter's swollen poison sacs are inflated.

They fire!

This glob hits Nedry in the eyes.  He SCREAMS.

He falls against the jeep, rubbing his eyes.  The Spitter calmly hops to

the embankment and watches the blinded Nedry weave drunkenly in the

water.  Nedry grabs onto the jeep and pulls himself along toward the

driver's door.  The Spitter stalks, watching him.

Nedry pulls open the jeep door,

thrusts his head in, slams it against

the door frame.  Now Nedry heaves his whole body into the jeep.  The

Spitter's long ostrich-like legs stretch and bend in an easy gait as it

closes it on Nedry.

Nedry sits behind the wheel, unseeing as the Spitter watches patiently

turns his blind eyes that way.

A long beat.  The Spitter leaps forward, the CAMERA PULLS BACK WIDER AND

WIDER.  Nedry lets out an ear-splitting SCREAM and the car horn BLARES.

INT  TIMMY'S CRUISER

Timmy lies against a spidered side window, his head pressed against the

door handle.  He pushes himself up on one elbow, opens his eyes, and

tries to focus.  Rain has nearly stopped but a light drizzle hits him

Timmy tries to straighten up, but he's too dizzy.  He stops and hears A

CREAKING and feels the whole car gently swaying back and forth.  With a

further effort, he raises his body so that he's standing with his feet

on the window frame and looks out the broken roof.

TIM'S POV - Dense foliage, moving in the wind, hard to see through.  An

o

pen space and - THE GROUND, FORTY FEET AWAY!

INT/EXT  CRUISER - CONTINUING ACTION

Tim's cruiser is lying on its side, stuck in the higher branches of a

tree on the hillside.

Timmy pulls his body up carefully, trying to get a better view.  He

grabs the steering wheel for support and it spins free in his hand.

CRACK!  The cruiser slips a few inches down the tree.  Timmy grabs the

window frame and freezes.  The car sways in the wind.

CRACK!  The car slips a quick and rocky two feet.

Timmy hears something.  He raises his head very carefully.  Climbing up

the tree, pulling himself on a nearby branch, is Dr. Grant.

Timmy nods.

Grant peers throug

h the broken roof of the cruiser, analyzing Timmy's

predicament.  He cranes his head back to examine how the cruiser is

supported in the tree.  Grant turns back to Timmy.

Timmy places his weight on the two sides of the door frame and reaches

between his legs, trying to open the door handle.  Stuck.  CRACK!  The

cruiser drops another foot.

Grant scrambles down a couple branches until he is even with the cruiser

again.  He motions for Timmy to hold still.

Grant reaches across to the other car door and tries the outer door

handle.  This one opens and very slowly, he pushes open the door.  Grant

gingerly holds it half-open in mid-air.

Carefully testing his weight with each step, Timmy lowers his body down.

He pushes his legs out the door.  They kick in the air and slowly come

to rest on a lower branch.  He lets himself down.  Now he si

ts on a

branch, a few feet below the cruiser.

CRACK!  The cruiser drops.  Grant still hangs onto the door but now his

footing on the branch is gone.  His legs hang in space.  The cruiser

hangs precariously above Timmy.  They're all twenty feet in the air.

Timmy agrees.

Timmy lets go and DROPS.  Grant follows.  So does the cruiser.  It's

hurtling right at them.

Timmy BANGS against the wet tree-trunk and slides down.  Branches WHIP

against his face, his hands SCRAPE against the trunk.  Grant BOUNCES

them.  They scramble down as quick as they can.

Timmy pulls his hands along the sap-sticky surface of the tree.  CRACK!

Grant is stopped for a terrible instant - doubled over a branch, he

flips himself over, dropping further.  The cruiser jolts along, just a

half-step behind them.

Timmy dives the last six feet and HITS the wet earth

with a THUD!  Grant

CRASHES next to him.  Before they can roll out of the way, the cruiser

keeps coming.  Grant and Timmy look up at it.

GRANT'S POV - The cruiser dropping, dropping toward them.  And finally

stops, just inches away, its dented grill grinning at them, its cracked

headlight glaring.

Oil drips down on Grant.  He grabs Timmy, who grabs the night goggles.

The two roll away.  That second the cruiser SMASHES to the ground.

Grant brushes himself off painfully, extends a hand to Timmy.  Timmy

slowly reaches up and pulls himself standing.

Grant turns around in a slow, fluid circle, checking out the forest.

They hear a faint WHIMPERING.

He runs.  Grant follows.

INT  DRAINPIPE -

Lex is curled up inside the drainpipe.  Her baseball glove is in her

mouth and

against the back of the pipe.  She WHIMPERS.

ON THE HILLSIDE -

Grant and Timmy arrive at the drainpipe and stare in at Lex.

Lex continues to band her head.  Timmy tries again.

She shakes her head.  He holds up her baseball but she doesn't look.

But she doesn't move.  Grant speaks encouragingly.

w but it's not here now.

EXT  ROADSIDE

Regis slowly crawls out from between a couple large boulders.  He looks

around carefully.  He peels mud off his face and rubs his neck.

He touches his cheek.

CLOSE ON Regis' swollen cheek.  He rubs it with his finger.  Suddenly,

he swats at his own mouth.  He reaches in and pulls out a leech fat with

blood.  He hurls it to the ground, spitting.  He grabs another off his

arm and rips if off, leaving a bloody streak.  He digs in his pants and

pulls out another.  He SCREAMS.

As soon as he has done so, he knows he's made a mistake.  He looks

around frantically.  Sees the Rex trot down the road toward

him.

BACK ON HILLSIDE -

Grant and the kids crest the hill.  Grant puts on the night goggles and

adjusts the dial and looks toward Regis.  The kids can't see that far.

Grant's green POV - Regis and the Rex bounding after him.  Regis hugs a

tree, unmoving.

Grant whispers to the kids.

AFTER A LONG MOMENT, the tyrannosaur walks away, disappears into the

shadows.  Regis waits another long moment and releases his tree.

GRANT'S POV - The tyrannosaur leaps out of the shadows and knocks Regis

to the ground.  Regis jumps up and backs off.  The animal knocks him

right back down.  Regis jumps up again and screams at the beast.

THE REX watches him dance around.  It goes toward him.  This time its

jaws are open.  Regis SCREAMS and in the middle, the scream cuts off.

Grant lets the goggles fall off his face.  They hit the ground with a

METALLIC CLINK.  The Rex turns toward Grant and the kids.

Grant grabs both the kids' hands and they begin to run.

BACK ON  TOUR REST AREA -

Drops of water splat on a big fern.  Light swims in the little puddle.

In the sky above, clouds hurry by, intermittently revealing a half-

obscured moon.

The torn fence lies in a crumpled, twisted mess.  The wheel of a Land

Cruiser spins.  A little lizard runs in place on it.

The SOUND of the jeep's engine.  It's Muldoon and Ellie.

THEIR POV - a single cruiser lies on its side in the middle of the road.

Before the cruiser stops, she j

umps out.   Muldoon shouts a whisper.

Ellie turns in the headlight beams.  Muldoon tosses her a flashlight.

Muldoon skids to a stop, leaps out of the car.  He catches up to Ellie.

They share a frightened, apprehensive look.  Muldoon gets on his knees

and and touches a muddies area.

Ellie looks out into the forest.

A definite RUSTLING in the brush.

Ellie jumps and SCREAMS.  Muldoon puts his hand over her mouth and

pushes her down.  They both squat by the cruiser.  SILENCE.  Ellie

swallows.  Muldoon slowly gets up.  Ellie follows.

Their flashlights swing back and forth in the night.  Twigs crack under

their feet.

Ellie hears the RUSTLE at the edge of the forest.  She shines her light

into the brush.  She catches her breath.  Her hand shakes.

Ellie flashes her beam right, left, up, down.  Jumps.  Something is

coming at her, rolling at her.  She gasps, steps back.  It's too late.

It's Gennaro.  His limp body stops at her feet.  She covers her mouth.

Muldoon runs to her.

Gennaro is face-down.  Muldoon takes his pulse.

He stands and removes his

jacket.

CLOSE ON - Muldoon tears the jacket into long strips.

He wraps Gennaro's wounds.

Muldoon and Ellie carry Gennaro to the jeep.  They lay him on the back

seat.  Muldoon jumps in back with him.  He keeps wrapping the wounds.

Ellie starts the engine, looks back at him.

Muldoon looks up.

She starts the engine.

Ellie skids out of there.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT

The dark room is lit with two outdoor torches.  Light flickering on

their faces, Arnold and Wu stare at the console screen.

Arnold snaps his fingers, grabs Wu,

With a rapid series of keys, Arnold initiates "keystrokes".  The

computer displays a short series of commands.  Arnold runs his finger

down the screen.

Wu points to a line.  It reads:  WHTE-RBT.OBJ

Arnold types FIND WHTE-RBT.OBJ.  Nothing.  He tries DEFINE WHTE-RBT.OBJ.

Still nothing.  LIST WHTE-RBT.OBJ.  The screen fills with data.  Each

line defines another security system that has been shut off:  SECURITY

PERIM

ETER FENCES OFF/   SECURITY - INTERIOR FENCES OFF/  SECURITY -

LABORATORY DOORS OFF/, etc.

Arnold nods grimly.

INT  CAFETERIA - NIGHT

Hammond sits quietly in the deserted cafeteria, calmly spooning ice

cream into his mouth.  This room is lit by dozens of candles.

Muldoon walks in, stares at Hammond in the semi-darkness.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Dark.  Ellie helps Harding get Gennaro comfortable on Hammond's couch.

Blood from Gennaro's injuries stain the rich leather.  Gennaro babbles.

As Ellie leaves, Genna

ro is singing a shanty in his morphine stupor.

EXT  THE ANNE B AT SEA - NIGHT

The ship is tossed around on a stormy sea.

INT  STATEROOM -

The eggs are tossed around in the womb of the incubator.  The swell

settles but the rocking of one egg doesn't stop.  The egg cracks, a

silvery line runs down its side.

EXT  PARK - NIGHT

Somewhere in the dark park, laced by low fog, Grant, Timmy and Lex walk.

Grant picks her up.

The full moon is blurred by drifting clouds.  Their blunted shadows lead

the three across an open field toward dark woods beyond

.  Grant is lost

is thought, trying to decide where to go.

Lex's heavy eyes open.  Her eyes grow big.  She taps Grant's shoulder.

Lex lets herself slide off Grant and runs into the woods.  Timmy

follows.  Grant follows, squinting.  Finally, he sees.  A big smile.

The kids look up at a twelve foot high electric fence.  Timmy gulps.

Timmy spins in fury.

Lex and Timmy stare at each other.  No fighting - now.  They relax.

Timmy eyes it.  Nods hesitantly.  They start to climb.  Lex climbs easily.

Timmy climbs tentatively.  A dinosaur ROARS in the distance.

CLOSE ON - Timmy's foot loses its grip.

Timmy hangs for a moment, held only by his straining hands.

All three stop.  Wait.  Timmy regains his balance.  Slowly, they proceed

up and over.

On the other side, Grant looks around.  More high trees.  Beyond a field.

Grant starts to walk toward it.  Timmy stops.  Lets sits on a tree root.

Grant looks at his watch.

True, and Grant's thinking the same thing.  He looks aro

und, surveying

the misty forest.  He looks straight up into the beautiful, tall trees

that ring the wide-open grassy meadow.

Grant smiles.

Grant checks out and rejects tree after tree.  Near the meadow he finds

it.  A good, basic climbing tree.

EXT  UPPER BRANCHES OF THE TREE

Grant helps Lex get comfortable on his lap.  Timmy tucks himself in

between Grant's outstretched legs.  Grant looks out.  Back to kids.

Timmy and Lex are already snoring.  Lex turns and hugs Grant close to

her.  She murmurs in her sleep.  Grant starts to pat her shoulder when

Timmy, without waking, reaches to her and strokes her hair.

CLOSE ON - amoeba-like creatures

swimming in a pool.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - NIGHT

Ellie lifts her head away from the powerful microscope.

The dark room is lit by flashlight.  Battery packs power the microscope.

Wu paces the room, regarding his eggs with dismay.  Sitting on their

long tables with no moving wands above them - no thermal sensors.

Ellie swings the lens to Wu.  Not so interested but peers in politely.

Wu reluctantly agrees.  He opens a cabinet and brings her samples.

in a dormant condition.  It's

Ellie begins a test on a sample.  She adds a reagent and marks up a

slide.  As she works:

Wu waves his arms.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Arnold pushes his chair away from his console and claps his hands as

Muldoon walks in.  Muldoon asks hopefully.

Arnold points to the screen.

Muldoon comes closer.

D

Arnold types in a command.  The screen flickers and changes.  Arnold and

Muldoon look out the window as lights come on through out the park.

y miles of fence out there,

Arnold points to the transparent map of the park.  On it, bright red

lines snake out, moving throughout the park, as electricity surges

through the fences.

Muldoon picks up a phone, shakes his head.

BACK ON  GRANT AND KIDS IN TREE -

Grant snores.  A mosquito buzzes around him.  He waves him away and

continues to sleep.

In the distance, a tiny BEEPING. Below the towering tree, across the

f

ield, a sensor beeps, it's green light blinks, and the beeping stops.

IN THE HIGH TREE, the branches sway.  Grant and the kids sleep on.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

The glowing, glass map.  Arnold and Muldoon stare at it.

Muldoon looks at Arnold anxiously.  Arnold looks down.

.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - NIGHT

Brightly lit again.  Ellie performs tests with a centrifuge.  She looks

at Wu, who sits across from her in a high stool, stifling a yawn.

Wu doesn't need to be told twice.  He climbs off his stool.

He starts to leave.  He comes back and speaks consolingly at Ellie.

Ellie appreciates his effort, nods seriously, goes back to work.

EXT  OCEAN - JUST BEFORE DAWN

Beautiful dark ocean.  The sky is a rich blue.  A morning star fades as

the sky lightens.  The Anne B is a small dot on the massive ocean.

INT  STATEROOM, ANNE B

-

Eggs sit in the incubator.  A hand sprays them with foam.  Leaves.

CAMERA EXAMINES the eggs as the foam disperses.  More cracks.  One egg

jumps with a bolt from within.  It settles.  Jumps again.

ESTABLISHING AERIAL - the primordial beauty of Isla Nublar at dawn.

EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAWN

Muldoon drives out into the park in Harding's jeep.  THREE WORKERS

travel with him.  Each carries a rifle.

EXT  GRANT'S TREE - DAWN

CAMERA LOOK DOWN on Grant, Lex and Timmy still sleeping in the tree.  A

large shadow falls on their quiet faces.  Lex opens an eye. She SCREAMS.

Grant and Timmy wake up with a start.

THEIR POV - AS THE CAMERA LOOKS THROUGH THEIR LEGS AND TILTS UP right

into the huge face of A DUCK-BILLED HADROSAUR, a gigantic dinosaur with

cow eyes.  Its head moves up through the canopy of the trees.  Then the

head swoops way down below.  And returns to Grant's level and stares at

his shoe.

The hadrosaur tastes Grant's shoe.  The kids

The hadrosaur HONKS.  Lex covers her ears.  Grant smiles and motions to

Lex.  He picks a big fruit off the tree and tosses it into the

hadrosaur's mouth.  CHOMP.  He feeds it again.  Lex and Timmy toss a few.

CHOMP!  CHOMP!  HONK!  HONK!

The hadrosaur's big head swoops way down, momentarily gone.

When she returns, all three quickly gather fruits and throw them into

her mouth.  The hadrosaur pulls back with her giant mouthful of fruit.

She pulls further and further back and then her huge head turns and

moves down.

Grant, Lex and Timmy strain to see through the branches.

THEIR POV - The hadrosaur is feeding four scampering, baby hadrosaurs.

Letting the fruit tumble from her mouth into theirs.  Lex YELLS:

reakfast!

The babies run to the base of the tree.  The kids toss fruits right down

to them.  Lex and Timmy climb lower to feed them right from their hands.

Grant and the mother hadrosaur stare at each other.  She sniffs his

foot.  He moves closer, straddling a branch.  He lifts up her lip and

examines her gums.

CLOSE ON - a ripped piece of fence stuck in her teeth.

Grant yanks it out.  He lets it drop to the ground.  He take a large

leaf and rubs her teeth with it.

CLOSE ON - her mouth as Grant's hand touches the side of her tongue.  He

sees little tiny bumps.

The hadrosaur lets out a low groan.   Grant is puzzled, rubs harder.

HONK!   She pulls her mouth away.  The baby hadrosaurs turn to the

honking adult.  She is leaving quickly.  They follow quickly behind her.

The small herd leaves, casually trampling trees as they go.

EXT  BACK ROADS, PARK - MORNING

Muldoon and workers drive rapidly in the jeep.  Suddenly,

on the brakes.

MULDOON'S POV - ABOUT TWENTY PROCOMPSOGNATHIDS (COMPYS), small chicken-

sized scavenging dinosaurs, scramble across the road.

Muldoon watches them cross.  He thinks it over.  Spins the wheel and

follows them off the road.

EXT  BELOW THE TREE, PARK - MORNING

Timmy bravely jumps from a very low branch.  He smiles and looks at

Grant, who's already on the ground.  Grant looks off in the distance.

ALONE IN THE BUSHES -  Lex kneels.  She holds a big fruit and calls:

She tosses the fruit.

CLOSE ON - the fruit rolling away.

Lex gets up and follows the rolling fruit.  She picks it up.

She tosses it again.

Lex's eyes scan the bushes, then stop.  She smiles.

LEX'S POV - hidden in the brush, a baby triceratops' eye peeks at Lex.

Lex pushes the fruit closer.  The BABY TRICERATOPS comes out of the

brush, squeaking as it goes.  It nibbles the fruit.  Lex rolls another.

BACK ON GRANT AND TIM - They look around.  Timmy stops, mouth open, YELLS:

Grant turns, looks OFFSCREEN.  He's astonished by when he sees.

HIS POV - a row of shrubs, which Lex seems to soar above.  As a break in

the shrubs, it's clear that she's riding the baby triceratops.  Loving it.

With a whoop, Grant and Timmy chase after Lex on her triceratops.

Lex rides through low brush, ducking down as she goes.  Then beneath the

tall trees as she enters the forest.  She crosses a stream on a log

b

ridge.  Light showers down through the branches.  The water shimmers.

Lex in is paradise.

Behind her, Grant and Timmy shout for her to stop.  She waves, kicks the

triceratops like it's a horse and YELLS:

The trike takes off, in a rush.  It trips over a fallen tree, downed by

the storm.  The trike takes a spill and Lex goes flying.

She passes over the trike's head, in the air, and SCREAMS as she flies:

She SPLASHES into the stream.

Timmy, first to arrive on the scene, dives in heroically.  He comes up

sheepish and muddy - and sees Lex standing in a foot of water.

The baby dinosaur rolls to a stop, mowing down a patch of saplings as

she goes.  It stands up, dizzy and out of breath.

Timmy wipes mud off himself.  Grant helps the kids out of the water.

The baby triceratops follows them.  Grant yells to the baby trike.

Grant shakes his head,

The trike whimpers and watches the three of them walk on.  Lex is

heartbroken.

Grant looks across the field, abundantly beautiful in the early morning.

He has to keep them going.   He points across the field.

Lex looks behind her.  In the distance, more hadrosaurs join the herd

eating from the tall trees.  Some cool off in a shallow lagoon.  They

drink, lowering their flat heads, meeting their own reflections in the

still water.  When they look up again, their heads swivel.  At the

water's

edge, a baby hadrosaur ventures out, squeaks, and scrambles back

while the adults watch indulgently.

EXT  OFF ROAD, PARK - MORNING

Muldoon and his workers now follow the compys on foot.  The compys trail

off in different directions.  Muldoon and his workers break apart to

track the different groups.

A BEARDED WORKER follows his party of compys.  He looks ahead and sees a

small group stopped ahead.  Their heads are bent to the ground.

A BALD WORKER has reached another cluster of compys.  Kicking, he

scatters them.

Muldoon's tracking leads him to the equipment graveyard where Nedry was

lost.  He sees his stolen red jeep.  He rushes to it.  On the passenger

side still sits the rocket launcher.  He opens the door to retrieve it.

When he leans in, his eye catches the tilted side-view mirror.  The

image is of many compys bent over the ground.  He comes around, YELLING.

In the distance, the call is ECHOED.

R (OFF)

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - DAY

Hammond peeks in the door and sees Gennaro, heavily bandaged, dozing on

the couch.  Gennaro's eyes flutter and Hammond enters and smiles.

Gennaro just grins and shakes his head.  He's very high on morphine.  He

wants to speak but Hammond keeps talking.  After each sentence, Gennaro

enthusiastically agrees with a nod.

Gennaro looks off, watching the imaginary pterodactyls fly away.

Hammond takes out a bag.

Hammond dumps things out of the bag.  They are souvenirs of the park.

Gennaro is thrilled.

Hammond leans closer.

Gennaro can't take it.  Great idea!  He high-fives Hammond repeatedly.

Harding enters and gently taps Hammond on the shoulder.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - DAY

Sunlight pours through the windows.  Ellie sits with her head in hands.

She looks around and wanders the lab.  Notices a drawer, slides it open.

X-rays.  She shuffles through, finds some marked: FREDA.

Ellie snaps on a viewing light at her lab station.  She studies the X-

ray.  She looks up in surprise.   Studies it again.

The viewing light is snapped off.  Ellie looks again.  Wu stands there.

Ellie attacks back.

They stare at each other in the bright sunlight.

The two swing around.  Hammond stands in the sharp shadows of the room.

Ellie)

Ellie and Wu stare at Hammond.  He steps forward.  The light is so hot

behind him that his appearance is like an apparition.

here on my

IN THE SKY, the sun momentarily burns through the clouds -

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - DAY

Ellie enters.  On the couch, Gennaro snores lightly.  In a chair nearby

Harding sleeps, a roll of gauze grasped in his hands.

Ellie walks over to the large model of the park that Hammond revealed.

She looks at the miniature dinosaurs that sit in different sectors of

the park.  She picks up the plastic Rex, examines it, drops it back in.

She brushes by Harding and studies Gennaro's pasty, sleeping face.  Air

blows in and out of his dry lips.  She examines the gauze wrapped around

his wounded leg.  It seeps with blood.

INT CONTROL - DAY

Arnold works at his console.  Hammond and Wu lean over his shoulder.

Ellie bursts in, very agitated.  Hammond looks up.

He sips his coffee and stares bleary-eyed at the screen.

ue, all

Arnold still hesitates.

Ellie boils over.

Arnold looks at Hammond, who now stares out into the park.  Without

turning, Hammond nods his consent.

Arnold gets up and goes to the main panel.  He opens the doors and

uncovers the metal swing-latches over the safety switches.

off, one after another.

He throws the master switch.

The control room goes black.  All monitors go black.  Arnold, Wu and

Ellie stand in the dark.

EXT  FIELD IN THE PARK -

Grant and kids walk through a clearing.  Lex stops.

Timmy looks around. The morning is still and peaceful. Branches are

motionless.  Only a little bird jumps from one branch to another.

Lex hesitates but doesn't want to be left behind.  She runs betw

een

Grant and Timmy.  Then they all hear it.

HONKING.  It comes from the herd of duck bills behind them.  First the

honking of a single animal, then another animal joins in, then another

and another, until the whole herd has taken up the honking cry.

The duckbills twist and turn.  They hurry out of the water, circling the

young ones to protect them.

With a ROAR, the T-Rex bursts from the trees, just a hundred yards away

straight toward the hadrosaurs.

The earth SHAKES.  A low rumble is heard and felt as the hadrosaurs begin

to run  in a parallel direction to the course of Grant and the kids.

Grant grabs Lex, lifting her bodily off the ground, and carries her like

a football.  Timmy runs beside them.

Hadrosaurs run alongside of them.  Grant

He takes a glance over his shoulder.

GRANT'S POV - a flurry of flamingos takes flight and spooks the herd

into changing direction.  The hadrosaurs swerve and charge right into

the path of Grant, Lex and Timmy.  They all SCREAM.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

The quiet black room.  Hammond stands by the big window.  His pensive

presence affects all in the room.

Arnold looks at his illuminated watch.

He pushes the main switch back on.  Nothing on.

Arnold pushes the switch off and then on again.  Still nothing.  He

glances at Hammond's back.  Sweat forms on his brow.

Arnold flips on three safeties, and covers them again with latch covers.

Holding his breath, he

First, there is the computer beep.  Ellie jumps.  Then relaxes.  The

lights come on.  The screens hum.  Hammond's shoulder twitches slightly.

The room is jubilant.  Hugs and cheers.  Ellie picks up a phone.

Arnold quickly goes back to work at his console.  Hammond turns.

Arnold pushes the chair back.

Ellie grabs the phone back up.

Arnold swings her way.

Hammond points to the transparent map.  A tight cluster of dots by the

lagoon move in a coordinated way.  Moving fast, in a kind of swirl.

BACK ON  THE HADROSAURS - LOW ANGLE ON THE STAMPEDE -

Grant and kids run for their lives.  Behind them the duckbills charge

with surprising speed.  Their enormous bodies charge in a tight group,

kicking up dirt, rocks, whole trees as they thunder along.

CLOSE ON - a charging duckbill as he HONKS, eyes wild with fear.

A horrible ROAR of the T-Rex sends a duckbill infant squealing and

struggling to stay out from underfoot.

CLOSE ON

Frightened and confused the infant scampers even deeper into the

maelstrom.  The frenzied herd raises a great cloud of yellow dust.

GRANT AND LEX AND TIMMY run wildly.  The stampede is very close behind

Grant and the kid's faces are covered with sweat and dust.

Another deafening ROAR of the T-Rex.

Grant leads them toward a rocky outcrop with a stand of big conifers.

The animals continue to close.

CLOSE ON - the running feet of the stampeding animals.  The ground

VIBRATES every time it is struck by the huge feet.

GRANT AND THE KIDS scramble onto the rocks.  They frantically tuck in

between big boulders as the the herd reaches them.  Lex shields her

dusty face with her hands as she wedges deeper between the rocks.  Grant

pushes her down deeper and looks up from between the rocks.

GRANT'S POV - the immense legs of the first hadrosaur to pass.  Another

slams its big tail against the rocks, leaving a splash of hot blood.

Stampeding legs send clods of dirt fl

ying in the air.  Above, even the

birds are running.  Disoriented, they fly frantically along.

GRANT AND THE KIDS are enveloped in dust.  Just shadows of huge bodies

with giant limbs.  BELLOWS of pain as animals wheel and circle.

A boulder is dislodged and it rolls toward Timmy.  He dives out of his

rocky hiding place.  The boulder continues on toward Grant and Lex.

They dive after Timmy.  The group buries itself anew in a group of thick

roots tangled amidst smaller rocks.  The boulder continues on, SMASHING

the rocky enclave they have just left.

Grant and the kids huddle and watch the last under-bellies oscillate

above them.  The stampede goes past.  They lie there, unable to move.

They watch the herd trample on.

CLOSE ON - The Rex's foot as it crushes a motion sensor.

Lex SCREAMS.  Grant and Timmy cover her mouth.

The T-Rex hunts down the herd.  He targets his prey.  A young hadrosaur.

As the hadrosaur gallops into the shadowy treeline, the Rex lunges

fiercely.  The Rex and its victim are enveloped

in dust.

Grant holds Lex close.  She watches the terrible cloud with a quiet

horror.  Timmy makes the first move to leave.

The herd's remainder gallops off into the safety of the deep jungle.

Grant, Lex and Timmy run in the opposite direction.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Hammond, Arnold, Wu, and Ellie watch the monitor as the dust slowly

clears.  Hadrosaurs scatter.

Now the Rex is calm and quiet.  BACK TO CAMERA, he gnaws on something.

Muldoon enters, limping in.  Hammond is very upset.

DOON

EXT  BY THE RIVER, PARK - DAY

The water rushes a few hundred yards away.  Grant and the kids have

finally rested enough.  Grant nods to Timmy.

Timmy looks up at Grant.  Grant kneels down by Lex.  Lex embraces Grant.

She wipes her tears.

Lex points to a low concrete maintenance building with bars.  It is

twenty yards away.

Grant start to stand.  He's thinking.

INT  MAINTENANCE BUILDING -

Grant stumbles deep in the gloomy recesses of the building.  He pushes

past drums of herbicide, tree-pruning equipment, spare tires, coils of

cyclone fencing, huge fertilizer bags, stacks of ceramic insulators,

empty motor-oil cans, work-lights and cables.

Timmy looks at Lex.  Where is it?  Lex doesn't know.

Grant keeps pushing through bags of cement, lengths of copper pipe,

piles of green mesh.  Two plastic oars hang on the concrete wall.

Timmy is reliev

ed.  Lex smiles.

Grant grabs them.  Looks around, still -

She nods.  Grant and Timmy resume looking.

IN THE REAR OF THE BUILDING - Lex walks below a barred window.  Slats of

light fall on her back.  She sees a dark closet door ajar.  She brushes

the handle.  It swings opens and two bright orange life preservers fall

on her, knocking her to the ground.

LEX SCREAMS, frantically pushing the life preservers off.

Grant's head pops up.  Timmy runs to her side.  She is wrestling

irrationally with the life preservers.  Timmy drops to the ground.

Lex is overcome with fear.  Timmy grabs a preservers and puts it on.

Y

She looks at him, realizes, and bursts out laughing.  Timmy laughs with

her.  Grant joins them.  He sits on a box and laughs.

Grant gets up.  He reaches for the hands of the kids.  Timmy sees it -

the box Grant sat on is labeled: RAFT STORAGE.  Timmy smiles..

AT THE RIVER'S EDGE -

Grant pulls a cord.

With a LOUD HISS, the rubber begins to expand uncontrollably, jerking

and jumping like a wild marionette.  Then, with a whopping HISS-WHAP! it

pops fully open on the deck: a large bright yellow rubber raft.

Timmy and Lex climb in, wearing the life preservers.  Grant gets in and

pushes off with his oars.

The small disturbance causes the cicadas to ROAR.  The raft drifts out

into the lagoon.  Grant fixes his oars into the oarlocks.

Grant surveys the river.

THUMP.  The raft stops moving.  They are aground.  Lex looks overboard.

She reaches in

Grant stands and puts the oars in the water.  He pushes with all his

might.  There is a long scraping sound of the raft against the mud

floor.  But it moves.  And the raft goes into deep enough water.

A general sigh of relief as they gently float downstream.

A WIDE AREA OF THE RIVER -

Grant energetically works the oars.

CLOSE ON - Lex lets her hand trail in the water.

But he's sweating and takes a moment to rest.  Lex looks down at her

hand in the water.  It still trails.

Grant looks into the water.  She's right.

Grant lays back against the rubber gunwales, closes his eyes.  The two

kids look at him.

eeping... yet.

Lex picks up the oars and begins.

Grant opens one eye and looks up at the sun in the sky.  He sighs and

takes up the oars again.  He rows powerfully with the current.

A BEND IN THE RIVER -

Current picks up speed.  The water begins to rush and ROAR.

White foam crashes on the raft and sprays the kids.  They burst out

laughing.  Grant smiles at them, but there is concern in his eyes.

ANOTHER BEND -

Now the raft is really racing.  The kids hold on tightly as the raft is

rocked.  White water crashed over, drenching the kids.  When Grant takes

a moment to look, he is soaked by a huge wave.

The raft tosses right and left.  Timmy holds the rubber grips.  He's

yanked to one side.  He's knocked to the raft floor.  Quickly gets his

grip again.  SHOUTS to Grant.

Grant looks ahead.  The river widens.  The raft really starts to fly.

Lex, gripping very tightly, looks out.  Water sprays her again and

again.  Her face is serious.

Grant grabs the raft's tie line and pulls it out of its rubber rings.

He lashes it around Lex and Timmy.  Then he ties it around one of the

rubber grips.

They go flying down the river.  The ROAR deafens.

The raft lifts out of the water.  And crashes down, rocking every way.

Jagged rocks appear.  Grant uses his paddle as a club to push off the

rocks and the rushing shoreline.  The kids duck from sudden overhanging

trees.

Grant looks ahead.  He blanches.

HIS POV - the surging edge of a tumultuous waterfall.

They're almost there.  At the huge waterfall, water rushes violently,

heaving over the magnificent precipice.

Timmy tries to tighten L

ex's vest but is thrown back down .  He YELLS:

The raft spins in the rushing water.  Everyone is thrown around.

The rope holding the kids to the raft tautens. The oars are wrestled out

of Grant's hands and go flying through the air, spilling over the edge.

At the last moment, Grant spots a tree branch arching over the cascade.

With all his might, he stands and holds his balance long enough. to let

his hands smash into the overhanging branch.

They stop right at the waterfall's edge.

Grant struggles mightily to hold onto the branch.  But the water keeps

rushing.  His strength ebbs.

Grant's veins pop out in his arms.  His hands start to slip off the wet

tree bark.  Lex watches his hands slowly lose their grip.

The rubber raft jumps and leaps below him.  Water pours into the raft.

Lex tries fruitlessly to let it out.  Timmy holds down Grant's feet.

His hands slipping, slipping ...

CLOSE ON - The T-Rex, face down in the mud.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Arnold, Wu, Muldoon, and Ellie stare raptly at the monitor.

Hammond is above, in his throne.  He calls down:

Muldoon takes a step up toward Hammond's throne and the two argue

quietly back and forth.  In the foreground, Wu calls Arnold over.

Wu points to the screen behind

Arnold's head.  In the upper right-hand

corner, it blinks a yellow warning:  AUX PWR LOW!  Ellie regards it.

Arnold nods and rapidly strikes keys.  In the corner, a printer whirs to

life.  Moments later, it spins out a single page.  Arnold tears it off.

Ellie continues to stare at the screen.  It now flashes red:  AUX PWR

FAIL!  An alarm klaxon BLARES.

Hammond holds his ears against the noise.  He stands up.

The room lights begin to FLASH.  They're reflected in Hammond's eyes.

Hammond ROARS above the chaos.

Onscreen, numbers begin to count backward from ten.  Hammond lurches.

At zero, the lights go off, the monitors,

alarms keep screaming.

Arnold ignores him, keeps pressing buttons.  Hammond rushes toward

Arnold.  Arnold looks over his shoulder in surprise.  Hammond SCREAMS.

Arnold crosses his hands in front of his face, blocking Hammond's

attack.  Hammond grabs Arnold's wrists and the two twirl to the ground.

Breathing heavily, Hammond clutches his hand to his own chest.

Arnold stands up, brushes off.  He puts himself together, looks at

Hammond.  He SHOUTS over the siren:

BACK ON RAFT AT WATERFALL -

Grant still clings to the overhanging branch, holding the raft from

toppling over the crashing waterfall.  Lex and Timmy hold onto his legs.

The ROAR of the

current to a rolling river.  And then to a gentle stream.  A trickle.

Nothing.

Grant slowly relaxes, lets go.  So do the children.  Around the raft,

the water level begins to drain.  Gradually, Grant and the kids are left

in the raft sitting in just a few puddles of water.  Around them,

various pumps and other equipment is exposed where it was once covered

by rushing white water.

He points and the three of them look over the edge where the waterfall

once poured.  There's a shimmering rainbow and beyond that, in the mist

is the visitor's center.

They grab his hands and clamber out of the raft, running toward shore.

BACK ON CON

TROL ROOM -

Muldoon pulls open the blinds and the hot sun filters in, so the room is

alternate patches of bright and dark.

In a hot corner, Ellie squats over a prostate Hammond, mopping his brow

with a cool cloth.  He murmurs, only barely intelligible.

Wu brings the printout to Arnold.  The printout is a chronological

rendering of control room events since the restart.  It is clear they

have been running on auxiliary power.  Wu yells above the alarm:

Arnold nods.  Muldoon points to a line in the printout:

06:35:22   WARNING: FENCE STATUS (NB)  OPERATIVE - AUX POWER

Arnold grabs the paper, looks at it, slams it down.

In the corner, Hammond lifts his head and Ellie gently helps him to a

sitting position.

s could be loose?

EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - AFTERNOON

Muldoon and Arnold run across the lawn.  Muldoon carries his rocket

launcher at a ready position.  In the distance, the alarm still SOUNDS,

lights FLASH a continued warning.

They reach the maintenance building where the generator is housed.  Its

familiar him has been replaced by its own alarms.  The closer they

approach, the louder and brighter these alarms are.  Grey steam pours

out of the vents of the building, obscuring everything.

Arnold accepts this.  He is about to enter when Muldoon instructs him.

Arnold lights a cigarette and disappears into the steam-shrouded door.

EXT  RAPTOR PIT - AFTERNOON

Muldoon inspects an extremely discouraging sight.  The thick mesh that

covered the pit has been chewed through and ripped open.  With heavy gun

in one hand, Muldoon shines his flashlight into the pit.  It's empty.

Muldoon looks up.

MULDOON'S POV - the dense forest surrounding the Visitor's Center.

Muldoon examines the ground.  He locates the raptor prints leading away

Muldoon breaks into a run.

INT/EXT  GENERATOR ROOM - AFTERNOON

Muldoon comes back to the generator room still runnin

g full-tilt.  He

kicks open the door.  Steam pours out.  Standing in the thick steam,

Muldoon yells for Arnold.  No answer.  He steps in the doorway and

shines his flashlight around.

MULDOON'S POV - Only the dark abstract shapes of rakes and coiled ropes

and small machinery can be seen in the steam.

Muldoon yells again.  No answer at all.  Muldoon curses and leaves.

As soon as Muldoon is gone, there is movement.  Even above the sirens,

an animalistic breathing, grunting can be heard.  Obscured by steam and

flashing lights, a reptilian claw clutches a shadow.  A pack of

cigarettes falls to the ground, spilling out on the floor.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Muldoon enters and confronts Hammond, Ellie, and Wu,

Muldoon looks around grimly.  He shakes his head.

ck here already.

Hammond takes charge.

Muldoon stares at Hammond, then drops it.  They prepare to go.

EXT  HILLSIDE, PARK -

Grant and the kids come over the hill.  Timmy sees the big fence and the

Visitor's Center close behind.

Lex and Grant happily run down the hill.

EXT  ELECTRIFIED FENCE IN PARK - AFTERNOON

Grant and the kids stand in the long shadows of the electric fence.

This huge fence is much higher than what Timmy has had to climb.  Grant

turns to him apologetically.

EXT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - AFTERNOON

Wu stands at the open sliding gate of the perimeter fence surrounding

Hammond's quarters..  Next to him is Ellie.  Behind both of them,

launcher at the ready, is Muldoon.  Watching from the window above,

Hammond waves.  Ellie and Wu wear radio headsets.

Wu and Ellie nod seriously and test radio contact.  We starts his way

across the lawn, Muldoon limps behind with his launcher.  Ellie stands

ready at the open

gate.

Wu takes slow steps.  Muldoon follows.  Wu is just five feet away from

the door to the generator building.

CLOSE ON - Wu's tense face.

THE ATTACK is sudden and fierce.  It comes from the brush.  The raptor

leaps onto Wu in an instant.  Wu and the raptor roll on the ground.  Wu

struggles for his life.  Muldoon can't get a safe shot.  He SCREAM:

Ellie comes running away from the safety of the gate.  She jumps up and

down, waving her hands, and SCREAMS:

The Raptor is distracted by this.  He lets Wu go for a moment, shaking

him loose from his bloody jaws.  Instantly, Wu rolls away.  Muldoon

fires the rocket launcher.  With a SIZZLE, the missile fires.  BOOM!

Direct hit!  The raptor is blown to tiny pieces.

Muldoon grabs Wu and pulls the inju

red man to safety.

In reply Wu gets to his feet, looks where the Raptor was.

Muldoon helps Wu back inside the fence.  He waves for Ellie to come in

and join them.

Ellie takes off toward the generator building.  She YELLS:

Muldoon yells for her to wait but stops when he realizes that this may

be their best plan.

Ellie races like a gazelle across the open lawn.  She's very fast and

graceful.  She ducks into the generator building.

Above it all, Hammond watches at the small viewing window.

BACK ON - GRANT AND KIDS AT FENCE

The three are at the top of the fence now.  Grant carefully lifts Lex

above the barbed wire and she grabs onto the other side of the fence to

begin the climb down.  Grant grabs Tim and lifts him next.  Tim's tense

face is a river of sweat.

INT  GE

NERATOR BUILDING -

Ellie finishes the stairs and feels her way along the basement wall.

Her face is lit by a flashing yellow light.  She bangs her head on a

pipe.  She rubs her head.

Ellie turns the handle.  The cabinet opens.

Ellie throws it down.  She counts:

BACK ON GRANT AND KIDS -

Just a few feet from the bottom of the fence.

BACK ON ELLIE -

BACK ON GRANT AND KIDS -

Grant and Timmy jump down.

the fence pattern.  She pulls on it.

BACK ON ELLIE -

She throws the large switch back.

BACK ON LEX -

She jumps off the fence.  Her sneaker comes off, falls to the ground.

CAMERA PUSHES IN ON LEX - it celebrates her narrow escape.

Grant casually leans against the fence to help Lex with her shoe.

NOTHING!  STILL NO ELECTRIC FENCES!

The Visitor's Center is in sight.  They all turn to each other.  Elated.

Lex jumps up and down.  Grant smiles, high-fives Timmy.

BACK ON ELLIE -

The siren and the flashing lights stop.  The room lights go on.  Ellie

turns to go back upstairs.  Her foot slips, she falls to the ground.

She has slipped on a pool of blood.  She jumps up, recoils.

It's Arnold.  She squelches a SCREAM, covering her own mouth.

SMASH!  Ellie SCREAMS as a raptor lunges at her.   He jumps down

above the water pipe Ellie banged her head on.

Ellie turns and races toward a ventilation shaft.  She dives into it.

The raptor gets there a second late and smashes against the shaft wall.

Ellie pushes herself against the shaft wall and, using her legs to push

against the wall, begins to climb up.

The raptor smashes against the shaft again and gets inside.  Ellie

scrambles up.  The raptor snarls and spits but it is momentarily pinned.

Ellie continues her scramble up the shaft.  At ground level, she slams

her feet hard against a vent, popping it open.  Scraping the wall and

banging against pipes, she races toward the door.

EXT  GENERATOR BUILDING - CONTINUING ACTION

Ellie runs full-tilt toward the fence surrounding Hammond's quarters.

Wu, injured, lies within the safety of the fenced area.  Muldoon stands

with his rocket launcher just outside the fence waiting for Ellie.

Ellie screams to him as she speeds across the lawn.

The raptor EXPLODES th

rough the door of the generator building after

Ellie.

Muldoon fires at the raptor. Misses.  No time to reload.

The raptor gains on Ellie.  Muldoon ducks inside the fence's heavy gate.

He slides the gate half-shut, waving Ellie on.

Ellie dives inside the safety of the fence, losing her headset as she

goes.  The gate is almost closed.  The raptor lunges.

Muldoon slides shut the heavy gate, bashing the raptor's head with all

his might.  The raptor shudders, caught in the gate.  Stunned, for a

second, it doesn't move.

Ellie and Muldoon run to the building.  They push open the steel-clad

security door and dive inside.  Wu limping, chases after them.  With a

curse, Muldoon pushes the door back open, waves for Wu.

ELLIE AND MULDOON'S POV - Wu runs frantically.  The raptor jerks out of

the gate, inside of the fence.  He races after Wu.

Wu runs faster.  The raptor gains on him.  Wu screams, runs spastically.

Wu and the raptor are neck-and-neck

, equally close to the open door.

The raptor is inches from Wu.  Both are closer and closer to the door.

Wu and the raptor are at the door.

Muldoon slams the door shut on Wu and the raptor.  Wu's screams are

horrific.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - CONTINUING ACTION

Ellie drops to her knees, her chest heaving, pulls her headset off with

a bleeding hand.  Muldoon, affected, turns to her.

Ellie nods, catches her breath.

Muldoon looks out the tiny barred window of the security do

or.

MULDOON'S POV - There is already almost no sign of Wu.  The gate to the

perimeter fence slides shut.  The raptor looks up.  He is trapped within

the perimeter fence of Hammond's quarters.

CAMERA SLOWLY TILTS to the viewing window above.  Hammond stares down.

INT  VISITOR'S CENTER -

Grant and kids walk through the open security doors.  All is empty and

quiet.  They call out but there are no answers.

Grant thinks.

A DISTANT BELLOW.  Grant reconsiders.

He corrals the kids into the half completed enclosure of the Gift Shop.

Grant looks around tensely.

Grant looks at Timmy.

Timmy nods.  Lex is happy, sinks to the floor.

She finds a box of wind-up dinosaur toys. She winds one. Sends it

walking to Timmy.

Grant slips off into the concealing shadows of the skeletal display of

the T-rex and raptor in combat.  He looks back above his own shoulder

into the menacing jaws of the skeletal raptor.  He shouts back.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

It's a madhouse in the crowded baronial quarters of Hammond.  Gennaro is

singing at the top of his-lungs while Harding tries to restrain him.

Scared Workers huddle together, many a

re injured.  Hammond sits on the

floor, in a meditative trance.

Ellie and Muldoon stare out the window.

THEIR POV - The raptor is jumping in the air.  With every jump he comes

closer to leaping onto the roof of their small building.

Muldoon regards his rocket launcher ruefully.

Ellie looks up to the ceiling.  There is a large glass skylight with

crisscrossing iron bars casting an ominous shadow in the sun.

EXT  THE ANNE B AT SEA - DAY

The ship continues along smooth sunlit sea.  Land is in distant sight.

INT  STATEROOM -

The cracked egg is nudged open.  The cute scaly head of a six-inch baby

raptor nuzzles its way out of the shell.  It shakes off a few pieces of

clinging shell and immediately begins to devour one of the

CLOSE ON - The wind-up dinosaur skitters across the polished floor.  It

bands against the  the wall again and again.

Timmy looks down at it and smiles at Lex.

Timmy looks behind the counter.  He sees boxes of goods.  He moves a

stack of umbrellas out of his way.  Lex gets up and pulls one out.

She smiles and pops to her feet.  Timmy's not sure.

CLOSE ON - Timmy's torn face.  He's hungry, too.

He makes the right decision.

ill Dr. Grant

Interrupted by A SOUND.  A rhythmic, horrible BREATHING.   Now some

light and rapid STEPS.  And a SNIFFING.  It's definitely an animal.

Lex backs off in a hurry. She knocks the umbrella over.  It skirts

across the floor.  It spins and opens by itself.  Printed on it is the

ferocious face of the Spitter, the sides of its bright poisonous gills

spinning to a stop.

The breathing gets closer and closer.  The children huddle together in a

corner of the gift shop.  They SCREAM.

It's A RAPTOR, lean and ferocious.  More like a cyborg than a hunter, it

studies the kids from just outside the gift shop entrance.  His eyes

flick back and forth between the two pieces of meat.

Timmy grabs the box of toy dinosaurs.  He winds one up and sends it off

across the hall.  The raptor glances over at the moving toy.  Timmy

grabs another, whispers as he winds it.

Lex and Timmy wind toy after toy, send th

em across the hall.  The raptor

leaps, crushing one in its jaws.  Others waddle by.  The raptor dodges

and darts, grabbing this one, smashing that one.

The kids go running out into the hall.  They race down the Visitor

Center corridor.  Timmy pulls Lex behind him toward the restaurant.

INT/EXT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

With a huge leap, the raptor finally makes it to the roof of Hammond's

quarters.  He jumps lightly onto the skylight.  Glass shatters over the

assembled guests and workers below.  Total commotion and SCREAMS.

The raptor immediately begins to gnaw at the iron bars that block the

skylight.  Below, they shake off shards of glass and huddle in the

corners.  Ellie turns to Muldoon.

Ellie no

tices something out the window.  It's Grant approaching the

gate.  She hammers on the glass.

Grant's hand reaches for the knob.

The raptor stops gnawing, its ears perked up.

Ellie screams and screams.

Grant notices some of Wu's remains inside the gate.  He stops and looks

up.  At the window, Ellie waves her arms, warning him not to enter.

Grant stops.  He sees Wu's headset on the grass, reaches through the

fence, grabs it, puts it on.

Ellie jumps up and gets her headset.  She barks into it.

Grant stares up at Ellie in the window.  He waves.  She presses her hand

to the glass.

aptor

Grant races back to the Visitor's Center as she continues to fill him in.

INT  KITCHEN, VISITOR'S CENTER - CONTINUING ACTION

The kids hurtle through this huge, industrial kitchen.  The kitchen is a

maze of turns, from the hot lamp pickup area to the rows of stainless

steel burners to the chopping blocks to the potwashing area.  The kids

dart and duck from one area to the next, taking shortcuts under tables,

crawling behind counters, scattering pots and pans behind.

Relentlessly, with a casual speed, the raptor stalks them.  It avoids

their obstacles with a casual grace and when it cannot fit through their

shortcuts, it just continues around.

Timmy pulls open the large silvered door of the freezer.  Lex starts to

hurry inside.  Timmy grabs her.

Timmy reaches into the freezer and grabs a pile

of steaks.  He tosses one

toward the raptor.  The raptor gobbles it in one bite.  Timmy shoves Lex

out of the way and begins to toss the steaks on the floor.  One after the

other, he tosses them, in a row, closer and closer to the open freezer.

The raptor mechanically gobbles the steaks, following their path.  He

continues right into the freezer to grab the last of Tim's bait.

Tim leaps and slams the heavy freezer door shut.  Lex comes running and

throws her small weight alongside of Timmy's.

The heave and the lock catches on the door.  From inside, there is a

strangled CRY and the door is slammed repeatedly.  The metal panels of

the door buckle but they do not break.  The door hinges bend and curve

but they do not give.

The kids collapse in relief on the kitchen floor.  In just a moment,

Timmy is back on his feet.

rs are

He grabs her hand and they run out of the back entrance of the kitchen.

There's a stairway and they race up.

INT  GIFT SHOP -

Grant, wearing his headset, calls for the kids and looks around the gift

shop with concern.  He sniffs the air and examines the crushed windup

toys.  He sees some animal scales on the floor.  He hears a NOISE above

and begins to run.

INT  UPPER FLOOR HALLWAY, VISITOR'S CENTER -

The kids hear this NOISE too and it's closer to them.  They bust into -

INT  AMBER ROOM, LABORATORY -

The kids knock over trays of stones as they rush through this room.

INT  EXTRACTION ROOM, LABORATORY -

Automated drills whir as Tim and Lex crash through, knocking equipment

to the ground.  The drills still whir on the ground.

INT  GENETICS ROOM -

The Hamachi-Hood sequencers explode in a heap of punch cards and

magnetic tape as the kids race by.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY -

The kids slide int

o this room.  They race to its far corner, past

incubators and display cases of chemicals.  They look back and see -

KID'S POV - A raptor happily gorging itself on a table of eggs.  He's

been in this room, their place of refuge, the whole time.

CLOSE ON - The raptor's glistening eyes register the children.

He begins to stalk.  The kids SCREAM.  This time there is nowhere to go.

The raptor closes in on the kids.  Timmy feebly stands in front of his

younger sister.

CLOSE ON - The raptor licks its lips, lizard-like.

At the other end of the room, GRANT ENTERS quickly.  He surveys the

situation.  Quickly, he grabs an egg off a table.  He reaches into one

of the chemical cabinets with POISON WARNINGS prominently displayed.  He

comes out with a syringe and a vial.

The raptor is almost on the kids.  Grant coughs conspicuously.  The

raptor whirls, studies Grant.  He looks back at the children.

Grant speaks into the headset.

He tosses the headset on the ground.  Ellie's voice crackles out.  The

raptor studies it, transfixed.

Grant injects the egg, then gently rolls it on the ground.  The raptor

forgets the headset.  He comes forward and sniffs the egg, then sucks it

up, swallowing it whole.

The raptor turns back to the kids.  He takes two steps toward them,

tenses to pounce - and keels over.  DEAD.

The kids race around the dead raptor to Grant.  Grant grabs his headset

as the three run out of the room.  Grant addresses Timmy as they run.

INT  CONTROL ROOM -

Grant and Tim and Lex study the quiet room.  Grant speaks calmly into

his headset.

ll Timmy how to reboot?

He studies a grid on a large console.  He reaches out and touches a part

of the screen.  There is a beep and a warning sign - INVALID ARGUMENT.

PLEASE TRY AGAIN.

BACK ON  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

The raptor has chewed almost all the way through the bars.  Panic below.

In the middle of it all, Ellie is focused, listening on her headset.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Timmy tries somethin

g else.  BEEP.  Lex raises a hand.  Grant stops her.

Timmy tries a screen section.  BEEP.  Again. BEEP.  Again.  BEEP.  BEEP.

Timmy shakes his head.  In desperation he stabs at the keyboard below

the touch screen.  He punches the ESCAPE button.

The screen lights up a new message - SYSTEM RESET COMPLETED.  ALL

SYSTEMS NORMAL.

BACK ON  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

The raptor has just chewed through.  He squeezes his body into the space

as the bars ELECTRIFY.  Spastically, the raptor jerks back and forth as

the current flows through him.  He can't get out.

Finally, with a WHIMPER, he stops struggling and slides through the

space he created.  With a THUMP, he drops to the floor below.

Ellie, Muldoon, Hammond and the workers look on in shock.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Grant cheers and hugs Timmy.  Lex whoops.

Timmy is pushing menus and submenus on the touchscreen now.

COMMUNICATIONS - RADIO - VEHICULAR ...  He gets the one he wants.

He indicates the radio-mike to Grant.

Grant grabs the mike.

The radio crackles to life.

Tim punches the screen which displays FARRELL, F

REDERICK D. (CAPT.)

Grant reads it and nods.  His voice is tough as nails.

SILENCE.

A blinking light on a map indicates that the ship is pulling away from

the harbor.  Grant nods to Timmy who terminates the radio contact.

Grant and Timmy start to celebrate again when Lex interrupts.

Grant turns to her seriously.

The last raptor smashes into the control room through Hammond's viewing

window.  Glass goes flying.  Grant and kids go running into the hallway.

INT ROTUNDA -

With the raptor in hot pursuit, the kids and Grant come flying.  Tim and

Lex jump over the railing, leaping onto the skeletal display.  Grant

goes for the stairs, jumping down them three at a time.

The raptor goes after the kids, scrambling over the balcony onto the

display.  The kids scamper down the display, knocking paint cans and

tools off the scaffolding as they go.  The raptor is just one beat

behind, and his snar

ling face is splashed with red paint as he chases.

The kids burrow into the rib cage of the Rex.  They break off floating

rubs and hurl them back at the raptor.  The raptor is undeterred,

closing the gap on the kids.

The kids are stuck at the end of the rib cage - it's closed off by the

skeleton and they can't break through.  They're imprisoned.  The raptor

is pushing through the rib cage, bones crackling as it goes.

Grant leaps up the scaffolding, grabs a beam, swings his weight onto it,

and slams it into the T-Rex's neck.  The neck shatters and the massive

head of the T-Rex drops free.

It falls directly onto the last raptor, squashing him flat.  Dead.

EXT  HELICOPTER PAD - DUSK

Muldoon leads his workers onto an army helicopter.  Two workers carry

Gennaro on a stretcher.  Ellie boards with the kids on each side of her,

holding her hands.

Grant and Hammond walk together, toward the helicopter.

Hammond stops.

Grant is unimpressed.  He holds a hand out to Hammond.  Hammond tries a

new approach.

Grant jumps in the copter, holds out a hand to Hammond.

ement attractions.

Grant grabs Hammond's arm, starts to tug.

universe of negativity.

Hammond pulls his arm away and strides away from the helicopter just as

the ROTORS START UP.  Hammond's suit whips in the wind.  Grant calls to

him, reaching out his arm.

Hammond keeps walking.  He disappears over a grassy knoll.

Grant's outstretched hand drops to his side when THE ATTACK comes.

With a huge bellow, the T-Rex comes charging at the helicopter.  THE

PILOT screams for all to board as he starts to lift off.

The Rex bites onto the copter skid as the copter tries to escape.  The

copter angles dangerously as the Rex holds on.

Ellie fires a fire-extinguisher into the furious face of the Rex and its

jaws relax.  The copter escapes and starts to climb high into the sky.

The Rex paws after it, then drops down to four legs and gives the copter

a final swipe with its tail.

The tail SWISHES through

the air and CRACKS against the plexiglass

windshield which fissures and pops.  The pilot struggles to maintain

altitude and manages to keep the craft in the air.

With a ROAR of its own, the copter breaks into the blue sky and soars.

away, leaving an angry T-Rex alone.  Unnoticed by the frustrated Rex,

Hammond slips away and walks into the jungle.

IN THE COPTER -

SLOWLY PAN the exhausted faces of Muldoon and his workers, Lex and Timmy

holding onto each other, and Grant huddles next to Ellie.  He reaches

out and puts an arm around her shoulder.  She reaches up and pulls his

arm close.

Ellie looks up in surprise.  She give him a big smile.

Grant smiles back at her.

She's sad.  Grant hugs her.  Over her shoulder he gives a parting glance

to the island.  A green jewel in a blue sea.  Suddenly it is obliterated

by clouds.

CAMERA PANS AWAY AND SWOOPS DOWN from the copter.  IT CROSSES the sky.

THE CAMERA DESCENDS to Isla Nublar, slowly reveling in its natural

beauty and finally coming to earth in the midst of the verdant jungle.

IN THE JUNGLE - MAGIC HOUR

Hammond slowly climbs a steep hill covered with creeping growth.  He

almost reaches the top when he slips.  He falls to the soft ground and

rolls. He tumbles he

lplessly, rolling and spinning down the sharp drop,

finally coming to a complete stop in a shallow pool of water.  Face

down, his head splashes into the puddle.  No movement. Just the sound of

labored breath.

CAMERA PANS to Hammond's hand, half-submerged in water.  CAMERA MOVES

INTO EXTREME CLOSEUP as a mosquito lands on his hand.

EXT  OCEAN - NIGHT

The army copter circles lower and lower as it finds the Queen Anne B,

slowly drifting across the moonlit water.

