THE LAST BOY SCOUT

Bang bang bang

Down you go

It's just a job I do

You wanna be a detective? Here's what you

do: Take a trusted friend, and imagine the

worst thing, the most despicable thing, the

thing it would never even cross their minds

to do. Then assume they've already done it

twice.

When you consider that a career in pro foot-

ball means maybe ten years, after which you

got no legs left, and during which you're a

painkiller drug addict, a million a year

sounds about right. So when people bitch

at me about the money I made, I have a pat

response: Go fuck yourself.

FADE IN:

INT. DARK BEDROOM

The only light, that of a flickering TV screen.

A big MAN lies, shirtless, on the bed.

Watching a sports program. We hear:

The TELEPHONE SHRILLS in the stillness.

The Man On the Bed answers it. Speaks haltingly.

Silence.

The Man's hand unclenches. A container of pills spills

over the blanket. He stammers:

CONTINUED:

The PHONE CLICKS off. NFL running back Billy Cole stares

straight ahead, mouth working spastically.

AERIAL SHOT - SNOWSTORM

OVER Chicago, Illinois, as the CAMERA SPIRALS DOWN TOWARD

a teeming football stadium. We hear crowd noise and

marching band music, deafeningly loud, as we SUPERIMPOSE

the legend:

INT. ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH

The BROADCAST TEAM huddles inside the quilted jackets,

squinting through the snow. Speaking into headset mikes.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - SAME TIME

Billy Cole sits, alone, in front of his locker.

Eyes glazed. Face bathed in sweat.

He takes a bottle of pills from the locker. Pops three.

Hisses a stream of air through his teeth as we --

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY (FOURTH QUARTER)

A deafening CRUNCH as a defensive back hammers a wide

receiver, nearly decapitates him. The ball rolls free.

The back recovers it.

EXT. SIDELINES - SAME TIME

The injured player goes by on a stretcher, moaning.

Cheerleaders jump and frolic.

BILLY COLE

gets up off the bench. The rest of the offensive unit

sprints onto the field. Cole walks. Straight ahead,

eyes front. Like a robot. His HEARTBEAT THUDS on the

soundtrack.

DOWN ON FIELD

The huddle breaks.

The L.A. team trudges through the snow to the line of

scrimmage.

Cole adopts a three-point stance.

Everything happens in hyper-real SLOW MOTION:

The snow falls. The receivers breeze past, in motion to

begin their patterns. Moving like gazelles.

Cole's fingers paw the cold earth. Gouging it.

He is like a spring. Coiled and ready.

The ball is snapped.

Turf and snow. Erupting.

A firecracker series of POPS as linemen collide.

Legs churning.

CONTINUED:

The ball floats through the snowy air. Pitch-out to

Cole.

He takes it on the run. Tucks it under his arm.

Behind him, the quarterback bites the dust, leveled.

Cole turns the corner. Picks up a blocker.

Feet pounding. Arms pumping.

Up ahead, the free safety barrels toward him.    Low and

hard.

Cole does not blink. He reaches beneath his jersey.

Pulls out a GUN.

Pumps THREE SHOTS into the free safety's head.

The bullets go straight through. On the back of his

helmet.

A mixture of blood and fiberglass.

Cole keeps going, jogging for the end zone.

Around him, sound. Fury. Impact. Confusion.

Another defensive back. Straight ahead.

Reacts with almost comical terror. Dives to one side.

Cole FIRES. Blows out the guy's knee. Ends a career.

Keeps going.

We are now in full-scale panic.

The players are fleeing the field. Shouts. Pandemonium.

A few brave men gather around the fallen players.

POLICE

are on the field now. Running full out. They've got

riot guns, cocked and locked. Sprinting through the

snow.

Cole crosses the goal line.   Touchdown.

Drops the ball.

Turns, facing the cops.   His eyes are insane.

The crowd is screaming. People are running back and

forth like extras in the Keystone Cops.

The first TWO BLASTS from the cops' RIOT GUNS go high and

wide. One SHOT BLOWS APART the base of the goalpost.

The forty-foot-high monument pitches over, collapsing

like a wounded giant. Lands in a shower of snow and ice.

Cole is oblivious to the bars crashing around him.    He

smiles and says:

CONTINUED:

Puts the GUN to his helmet.   FIRES.

EXT. L.A. STREET - IN SHADOW OF FREEWAY - MORNING

We SUPERIMPOSE the legend:

Good morning, Mr. and Mrs. America, and all the ships at

sea. Welcome to another lackluster morning in Southern

California. Palm trees limp. Windless silence. 80

degrees at 8:00 AM.

CAMERA CRANES DOWN PAST a huge, rotting billboard. On

the billboard, a girl in tight jeans. Grabbing her own

butt. A surprised look on her face. Yes, honey, that's

your butt.

MOVE IN ON a tiny, weather-beaten bungalow. In the

shadow of the 405 Freeway. A shingle hangs from a

wrought iron post: JOSEPH R. HALLENBECK, CONFIDENTIAL

INVESTIGATIONS.

On the lawn, a late-model Plymouth.

The sprinkers come to life. Fling water across the car.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Inside the car, a lone man is asleep, arms akimbo.

Sprawled across the seat. Half-empty bottle of Seagrams

V.O. RADIO on, playing tinny JAZZ music.

Picture the  tiredest, meanest, grouchiest son of a bitch

self-hating  loser you can.

Now give him  a two-year-old suit from C & R Clothing.

Such is the  aforementioned HALLENBECK.

ANOTHER ANGLE

THREE neighborhood KIDS have gathered around the car.

Enjoying the spectacle of a sleeping drunk.

One tosses a baseball from hand to hand. One picks his

nose.

CONTINUED:

Kid #3 continues mining for nose eggs.   It looks like his

entire fist is up there. Pause, then:

ANOTHER ANGLE - BUNDLE OF PAPER TOWELS - SOME MINUTES

LATER

with a tail sticking out.

The youngest Kid holds it aloft reverently.

Looks in the open car window at Hallenbeck.

Still snoozing.   Dead to the world.

They heave the squirrel into the car and run away.

A pause. Another pause.    The sprinkler goes round.

Nothing happens.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Hallenbeck snores. The mashed squirrel perches on his

chest. A shadow falls across him as --

KIDS

return, scratching their heads.   Staring in at him.

Kid #1 smiles nervously.   Reaches in with infinite

patience.

Trembling hand inches closer and closer --

And closes on the bottle as, without warning --

HALLENBECK

sits bolt upright and grabs the Kid and stuffs a .38

revolver in the Kid's face and cocks it.

The Kid, of course, shrieks.

And the light of sanity dawns in Hallenbeck's eyes.

He sucks in a deep breath. Releases the struggling Kid.

Swears under his breath. Watches    the boys flee in

terror. Notices a dead squirrel    in his lap. Scowls.

Heaves it out the window. Pumps    a Camel into his mouth.

Lights it. Rescues the bottle of    Seagrams.

Thus begins his morning.

He opens the car door. The sprinkler douses him.

He gets out. Stands on the lawn.

One of the Kids, the toughest one, is standing on the

sidewalk.

Hallenbeck scowls.

Hallenbeck stares at him.   Smiles weakly.

He leans over and vomits on the lawn.

One hand gripping the car fender.

The sprinkler goes round and round.

EXT. MALIBU BEACH FRONT - MORNING

A redwood beach house, mellow in the morning sun.

There was a party here last night.

Banners. Balloons and streamers. Tawdry in the light of

day.

INT. BEACH HOUSE - SAME TIME

A plush bedroom.   Sun streams in the window.

A YOUNG MAN sits, straddling a backwards chair.     Bare-

foot, bare-chested. Blond hair, perfect tan.

He is nursing a beer.   Smoking and staring at --

BED

where a tawny golden girl lies, serene and innocent.

Like a sleeping kitten. Rumpled sheets, one breast

exposed. No tan line.

The man takes a drag off the cigarette, studies the

sleeping girl. Meet Jimmy Dix. Twenty-seven years old,

former National League heartthrob.

He shakes his head and mutters:

He gets up and goes into the head. Pulls out a glass

vial. Dips a coke spoon with practiced ease. Sucks it

up a nostril.

For one moment, he catches his own eye in the mirror.

FLASHBACK - FOOTBALL FIELD

Seventy thousand people screaming.

Jimmy in the middle. Younger Jimmy.    Fresher Jimmy.

It's a night game at the Coliseum.   He's the quarterback.

The snap. Jimmy fakes the draw. Rolls right.      Around

him, all is impact. Sound and fury.

He targets a receiver and unleashes a rocket.   Sixty-

yard toss, hits the guy between the numbers.

JIMMY'S FACE

Covered with dirt and mud. Blood, too.

Young and proud. Seventy thousand voices tell him he's

alive. He makes a difference.

BACK TO PRESENT

Alone in the bathroom... leaning on the counter.    Head

down. A voice calls softly from the bedroom:

Pause, then:

He looks up at his reflection. Glazed eyes, beard

stubble. Crows' feet around the eyes.

He sniffs, clearing his nose.

INT. WEST L.A. BUNGALOW - MORNING

Hallenbeck opens the door and shambles in.

Dark. Depressing. Sprawl of furniture. Stack after

stack of sports magazines. Drop all your belongings out

of a plane. They will land like this.

He flicks on the light. Crosses to the couch and flops

down. Plucks a bottle of aspirin from an end table.

Next to the bottle, we see --

TWO FRAMED PHOTOGRAPHS

side by side. In one, younger Hallenbeck is kissing

younger bride. Smiling.

In the other, the President of the United States presents

Hallenbeck with a medal. They are both smiling beneath

the Presidential Seal.

BACK TO SCENE

Hallenbeck scowls and chews three aspirin.    Swallows.

The PHONE RINGS. He groans. Chain-lights another smoke,

stubs out his old one. Chins the receiver and says:

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck catches his reflection in the mirror over

the TV. His face is ashen grey. Hollow eye sockets.

Blotchy skin.

EXT. BUNGALOW - MORNING

Hallenbeck emerges into the blinding glare. His tie is

crooked. His cuffs are too short. He looks like a

grouchy bear.

He looks up at the girl on the billboard.

Gorgeous does not respond:   Coy.   Very coy.

Hallenbeck slides behind the wheel of his Plymouth.     KEYS

the IGNITION. Phil Woods' SAXOPHONE fills the air.      He

looks at himself in the mirror.

CONTINUED:

He stretches his mouth into a grimace.

Pulls out into the street. Off he goes.

INT. MALIBU BEACH HOUSE - MORNING

Jimmy Dix leaves the bedroom. Pads barefoot down a hall

littered with beer cans, food wrappers. A sleeping guy.

Stops at a door, peeks in: all-night poker game in

progress. Four bleary-eyed men. Unshaven. Stack of

wrinkled money on a card table.

They all grunt. One of them, name of HENRY, looks up at

him. Holds out a half-smoked doobie:

CONTINUED:

One of the other PLAYERS looks up, says:

Everyone plays cards.    No one looks at him.   He frowns.

Leaves.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER

Jimmy is seated in the devastated living room. Putting

on shoes. He hears a COMMOTION outside: A woman scream-

ing. Water splashing. He frowns, puzzled. Gets up.

Pads out onto a redwood deck.

EXT. REDWOOD DECK - SAME

A six-foot behemoth is seated in a jacuzzi at the far end

of the deck. He is dunking a terrified female head under

the water and laughing.

Jimmy clears his throat.

CONTINUED:

The MAN looks up, annoyed.

She surfaces, sputtering and screaming.   Ray thrusts her

beneath the surface again.

Jimmy swallows hard.   Says:

Jimmy controls himself with an effort.

Jimmy's eyes are smoldering. He steps to the right.

Casually scoops up a football lying on the deck.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy turns, as if to walk away.

Instead, he spins back and launches the football.

It sings, that's how hard he throws it. And when it

smacks Ray in the face, something breaks. It ain't the

ball.

The big man howls. Clutching his flattened nose.

The girl comes up for air. Gagging and choking.

Jimmy is at her side instantly. Pulls her out of the

water.

She goes. He leans over and grabs Ray by the hair.

The guy is bleeding. Delirious.

Jimmy yanks until their faces are inches apart.

He lets go. Ray sags, semi-conscious.

The poker players come running as Jimmy walks back inside.

EXT. COAST HIGHWAY - DAY

Jimmy gets into the car. Takes out his vial.

Spoons some powder, sucks it up.

A voice in the background: "Hey, someone shit on my car!"

EXT. SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Joe Hallenbeck slides his Plymouth to the curb in front

of a cozy stucco dwelling. Gets out, crosses the lawn.

A fat NEIGHBOR is watering shrubs next door. He waves.

INT. HALLENBECK'S HOUSE - SAME TIME

Hallenbeck enters and crosses the living room.

A woman, forty-ish, once beautiful, appears in the bedroom

doorway. Wearing a terry cloth robe. This is Joe's wife

SARAH.

He brushes past her and crosses to the bed.   On the pillow,

a big stuffed cat toy smiles benignly.

He sits on the bed. Lights a cigarette. Opens the night

stand and removes a speedloader for his .38. Starts to

load the gun.

He suddenly notices a sheet of paper on the night stand.

A crayon sketch. He picks it up, frowns:

CLOSE ON DRAWING

It's a picture   of Santa Claus,  except this Santa has long,

stringy hair,   bloodshot eyes,  and grotesque talons. A

little girl's   severed head is  clutched in one hand.

Underneath, in   block capitals,  is written: SATAN CLAUS.

BACK TO SCENE

Her voice is ice cold.    Joe turns and regards her levelly.

CONTINUED:

He tosses the holstered .38 on the bed.   Stalks into

the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM

He sighs, tosses his cigarette butt in the toilet.

Walks back out into the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM

He kneels, looks under the bed.

Frowns.

Straightens and says, very conversationally:

Sarah stops dead.   Spins and stares at him.

CONTINUED:

A silence hangs between them.    Sarah just stares.   Shakes

her head.

An awkward pause.   Finally Hallenbeck scowls and says:

CONTINUED:

He cocks the hammer.   Arm extended, hand rock steady.

He sighs. Starts to pull the trigger.    And Sarah

screams --

And grabs the gun.

Everything freezes. She looks at him.    He looks at her.

Understanding occurs.

CLOSET DOOR

swings slowly open, then...

And out steps a man in a bathrobe.

Compact. Wiry. Hair still soaking wet.

None other than MIKE MILLER, Joe's early morning phone call.

We know this because Joe says:

CONTINUED:

The gun barrel does not waver.    Not an inch.

CONTINUED:

Sarah speaks then.   Head down.   Eyes averted.

He pulls the trigger.

The SHOT is DEAFENING in the closed room.

Mike Miller screams and clutches at himself.

The bullet goes high and wide. Over his head.

On the wall is a framed wedding photo. The twin of the

one in Hallenbeck's office. The bullet strikes it dead

center.

Blows it to pieces.

Silence. The tinkle of glass hitting the floor.

Hallenbeck turns. Regards his wife with hooded, lifeless

eyes.

He nods.   Turns and waves the gun at Miller.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - DAY

The two men come out the back door and cut through the

hedge.

CONTINUED:

Miller's car, a Pontiac Sunbird, is parked at the curb.

Hallenbeck stops in the middle of someone's yard.

Holsters his gun.

A neighbor's dog approaches, happily wagging its tail.

Hallenbeck bends and ruffles its fur.

Hallenbeck pats the dog. Straightens. Plants his back

foot and spins. Punches like a sledgehammer, into Miller's

gut.

Miller drops to his knees. Begins to retch.

Hallenbeck takes out a cigarette. Lights it.

Miller nods weakly.    Gasping for breath.

He climbs to his feet, still doubled over.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck says nothing. Miller turns and stumbles to

his car. Hallenbeck's face betrays nothing. A dead mask.

He walks back toward the hedge.

The neighbor's dog runs up, a tennis ball in its mouth.

Behind him, Mike Miller gets into the Sunbird.

Hallenbeck takes the tennis ball. Throws it.

The DOG BARKS and bounds after it.

Mike Miller turns the key in the ignition.

The CAR BLOWS to pieces.

An ERUPTION OF FLAME.

Flying glass and metal. The car becomes airborne.

Engulfed in fire. Does a lazy spin. Comes down.

The shockwave catches Hallenbeck.   Slams him ass over

teacups.

Windows blow in up and down the street.

Smoke and fire roll to the sky.

The DOG cowers, HOWLING in fear.

Beside it on the grass, the tennis ball is on fire.

Hallenbeck rolls to his feet. Covered with twigs and

leaves. Clothing scorched. Stares. Eyes glazed.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - AN HOUR LATER

A mobile crane hoists what's left of Mike Miller and his

Pontiac. Policemen direct traffic, curb bystanders.

OFF TO ONE SIDE

a UNIFORM COP questions Hallenbeck and Sarah, who stand

stiffly. Not looking at each other.

Joe lies easily:

CONTINUED:

He looks the Officer in the eye.      Betrays nothing.

NAKED, GYRATING BODY

Female, for the record.   Signaling us that we are now:

INT. "BOTTOMLESS PIT" CLUB - NIGHT

Rowdy strip club in   West Hollywood. Just like the      name

suggests; if it's a   virus, you're sitting on it.      After

three drinks, every   girl on stage looks like your     high

school sweetheart.    Was your sweetheart fat? Did      she

have excessive body   hair?

FUNK MUSIC, played LOUD. The Monday crowd stomps and

claps. Onstage a stripper grinds away with an enthusiasm

usually reserved for standing in line at the DMV.

Jimmy Dix sits at the bar, hooting and whistling. Behind

the bar, a black man in a wheelchair serves drinks. His

name is HARP.

Off to one side, a twenty-five-year-old BEANPOLE speaks

into a microphone:

The black man shakes his head.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy uncaps a beer and raises it in a toast.

Harp raises his own glass.

It seems to be a common ritual between them. Jimmy

drinks, thumps the bottle down. Says, resolutely:

His gaze wanders across the crowded room, fixating on --

SCANTILY-CLAD WAITRESS

Who makes her way between the tables. She is beautiful.

Stands out like a teamster at a gay rights rally. Supple

body. Deep green eyes. Flaxen hair. Her name is CORY.

She stops at a table against the wall. Puts down a

Seagrams V.O. in a rocks glass.

Seated at the table is a broad-shouldered man in a bad

suit. The essence of boredom. Looks like he's been

there three days. A cloud of smoke hangs around his

head. Mr. Joe Hallenbeck, no less.

CONTINUED:

She smiles and moves away.

Hallenbeck sips his drink.      Scans the crowd with shrewd

eyes.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The lovely Cory approaches Jimmy at the bar.     Harp looks

on.

And with that, she leans over and moulds her lips to his.

Time passes. These two know each other, it would seem.

Cory pulls away. Jimmy smiles.

CONTINUED:

She slaps his face.   He feigns innocence.   Points to

Hallenbeck.

She smiles and moves off, swishingly. Jimmy watches her

go. His gaze wanders across the room to Hallenbeck. He

frowns.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Near the stage, the would-be Eddie Murphy steps up to

the mike and says:

A few chuckles.   Some coughs.   More coughs than chuckles.

Applause. A syncopated DRUM BEAT kicks in.     AEROSMITH'S

LATEST erupts from the SPEAKERS.

And then she comes on.

And even Joe Hallenbeck must draw in a sharp breath.

CONTINUED:

Her body is exquisite. She moves like breath. Her eyes

can put you under. She is simply that beautiful.

HALLENBECK

sits with his drink untouched before him. Pats his

suit pockets, searching for a smoke. Removes a crumpled,

empty pack, as:

JIMMY DIX

saunters up, looking less than friendly. He looks at

Hallenbeck. Hallenbeck does not look at him.

Only Hallenbeck's eyes move. He looks up, regards Jimmy

coolly. They size each other up. Hallenbeck sighs.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy remains standing.

Jimmy leans forward, palms flat on the table.

CONTINUED:

They stare each other down.      Hallenbeck calmly sips his

bourbon.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy throws a short jab at Hallenbeck's chin.

It never gets there.

Joe moves, lightning quick, and suddenly Jimmy's fist

is trapped. Dead stops. Fingers grinding into palm.

Jimmy swears. Stumbles. Sits down hard.

Hallenbeck releases him.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy looks at him, puzzled.    Didn't they just swap

punches?

ANGLE ON STAGE

Onstage, the MUSIC GRINDS TO a CLOSE as Cory dispenses

with the last of her clothing. Strikes a pose to wild

applause and we HOLD ON her radiant beauty and --

INT. DINGY DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Cory and Jimmy are engaged in very hot sex.

This is not a love scene; this is a sex scene.

Sigh. I'm not even going to attempt to write this

quote-unquote "steamy" scene here, for several good

reasons:

A)   The things that I find steamy are none of your damn

B)   The two actors involved will no doubt have wonderful,

C)   My mother reads this shit.   So there.

(P.S.: I think we lost her back at the Jacuzzi blowjob

scene.)

CONTINUED:

Suffice to say, they fog the screen.

At last, Jimmy rolls over and pours champagne into two

crystal glasses. Lifts one in a toast.

They drink.   And from this blissful affirmation of life

we --

INT. BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR - SAME TIME

Joe Hallenbeck is pounding an already-dented cigarette

machine. No dice. It has eaten his money. He shakes

his head, muttering.

Looks at his watch. Looks at the dressing room door.

Shakes his head again. Walks to the end of the corridor.

Goes through the fire door. Out into:

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Starry, moonlit night.   A chill breeze.   Joe draws a

breath.

In front of him, on the wall of the club, is a poster:

BAYNARD FOR SENATE, it reads. Above the logo, a picture

of a benevolent-looking gray-haired man.

Hallenbeck regards it balefully.

He looks away, and suddenly notices something on the

ground:

A half-smoked cigarette butt.

Just sitting there.

Joe stares at it. Thinks it over.

Starts to walk away. Stops.

CONTINUED:

He bends to pick up the butt.

A steel sap whistles over his head, missing by inches.

Hallenbeck spins, startled. Reflexively lashes out with

a flattened palm. Misses, chops the air.

Two more men, behind him. Nowhere to go.

A sap pops him behind the left ear. A sickening thud.

The world spins out of focus. He goes down.

Hits the pavement like a ton of bricks.

Rolls over, staring up.

Vision muddy, indistinct.

HALLENBECK'S POV

Three silhouettes hover over him, backlit by streetlamps.

Their voices are fuzzy.

The men disperse. One of them drags Joe to his feet.

A stocky, crag-faced man. He jams a silenced pistol

in Joe's kidney and points him toward a vacant lot

nearby.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The two other Hitmen return to their gray, late-model

sedan. Climb into the car and sit, watching the

nightclub.

Waiting.

EXT. VACANT LOT - NIGHT

A rusty chain-link fence separates the lot from the boule-

vard. Choked with weeds. Broken glass. A rusted-out car.

A towering billboard looms overhead, inviting people to

drink Scotch or get laid, it's hard to tell.

Hallenbeck staggers drunkenly across the lot.

The crag-faced man follows behind him.

The gunman cracks up.   Hallenbeck grins drunkenly.

The guy cracks up again.

The hitman wheezes laughter.   Joe just grins.

The hitman is now giggling, shaking his head.

CONTINUED:

From a kneeling position, Hallenbeck flings a handful of

gravel at the man's eyes.

The man cries out. Stumbles backward.

And Hallenbeck moves like a coiled spring. Not drunk at

all. He takes  the broken bottle he's been clutching and

cuts the guy's throat like a knife through butter.

The hitman stands with a shocked look on his face.

Blood bubbling.

FIRES the GUN once, into the ground. Drops it from nerve-

less fingers. Stares at Hallenbeck, aghast.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck meets his gaze.    A savage, feral gleam in his

eye.

The guy pitches over dead.

Hallenbeck kneels beside him.

Retrieves his .38, holsters it.       Slips the hitman's pistol

into his waistband.

He takes off running.

EXT. STRIP CLUB - NIGHT

Cory and Jimmy emerge from the club into the parking lot.

She scans the area, shaking her head.

He heads for his car.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Hitmen wait in the darkened sedan.

Watching Jimmy and Cory.

The driver keys the ignition. Starts the car.

In his lap is an automatic rifle.

EXT. BOULEVARD - NIGHT

Joe Hallenbeck is running full out.

Headlong down the sidewalk.       Gasping for breath.

CONTINUED:

He slams into a man. Knocks him flat. Groceries fly.

Joe doesn't care. He stumbles. Keeps going.

EXT. NIGHTTIME STREET - SAME TIME

Jimmy Dix is behind the wheel of a silver Jag.

Cory is driving a spanking new Ford Fiero.

Jimmy follows behind Cory, watchdogging. Humming with

JOE COCKER on the RADIO.

Cory comes to a red light.    Pauses.   Turns right onto a

sidestreet.

Jimmy slows, pausing at the intersection.

GRAY SEDAN

passes Jimmy. Accelerating. ENGINE REVVING.

Jimmy only gets one glimpse into the passing car.

It's enough:

Everyone inside is armed to the teeth.

The SEDAN ROARS around the corner, cutting in front of

Jimmy.

GRAY SEDAN

comes up behind Cory. Comes up fast.

Rams her car. Metal crumples. Meanwhile:

JIMMY

frantically floors the pedal of his Jag, pops the clutch

-- And stalls out.

He roars with anger.

Flings open the door.

Leaps out and runs forward, screaming:

Too late.    Cory is already out of her car, yelling:

CONTINUED:

Her eyes go wide with shock.

The Hitmen burst from their car.    OPEN UP on full auto.

Cory is cut down. Blown backward over the hood of her

Ford. Flung to the street.

And without missing a beat, the Hitmen turn --

And OPEN FIRE on Jimmy.

He takes a running start.

Clears the hood of his Jag in a single leap.

BULLETS DICE the metal behind him.

He lands, hard.   Sucks the ground.    Huddled behind his

car, as:

TWO HITMEN

move toward him, triggering THREE SHOT BURSTS.

The kid is dead meat. Or so it seems until, without

warning --

JOE HALLENBECK

charges into the intersection.     Screaming bloody murder.

He's got a GUN in each fist, and both are BLAZING.

One Hitman dies immediately:

Dances like a puppet, racked by gunfire.

Bullets go through him. SHATTER the sedan's WINDSHIELD.

The second Hitman turns and OPENS UP on Hallenbeck.

Too late. Joe rolls behind a mailbox.

BULLETS chase him, blowing apart the metal box.

The Hitman swears. Turns, running for the sedan.

He knows when a getaway is in order.

Just one problem.     He forgot about Jimmy Dix.

A SCREECH of TIRES.

As Jimmy's Jag slews around the corner, laying rubber.

Rockets toward the Hitman, pins him in its headlights --

The Hitman screams as Jimmy plows through him --

And CRUNCHES into the gray sedan.

CONTINUED:

Shatters the Hitman between the two cars...

And holy Christ, the guy's still alive.

Pinned like a butterfly, legs broken...

He raises his rifle, screaming.

Jimmy dives flat on the front seat.    The WINDSHIELD ERUPTS.

The Hitman.   Still pinned.   Still screaming.

He FIRES SHOT AFTER SHOT into Jimmy's car.

Hallenbeck walks up behind him.

Puts a BULLET in his head. He stops screaming.

JIMMY

is still huddled on the front seat in a sea of broken

glass. Hallenbeck walks up, leans in the window.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Jimmy puts it in reverse. The car backs up.

Steam pouring from the crumpled hood.

The Hitman, now freed, collapses to the street.

Like a sack of flour.

Hallenbeck limps toward him, wheezing.

He stops as:

MOTEL MANAGER

stands outside a door marked OFFICE.

Holding a pump action shotgun leveled at Hallenbeck.

Hallenbeck nods at the bodies in the street.

CONTINUED:

He turns and looks at Jimmy. The kid is in pain.

Staring at Cory's bullet-riddled body. Eyes glazed.

Hallenbeck says nothing. He crosses to the shattered

Hitman. Kneels  down, fishes through the guy's coat

pockets. Comes  up with a bloody pack of cigarettes.

Extracts one.  Lights it.

SIRENS fill the air.

And Jimmy snaps out of it long enough to reach into his

coat -- Takes out the vial of coke. Ditches it.

Drops it down a sewer grating, out of sight.

No one sees him do it.

POLICE CRUISERS

come SQUEALING up, flashers turning.

Surrounding Jimmy, who stands, head down and motionless --

And Joe, who smokes and looks at the moon.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

SERGEANT BENJAMIN BESSALO sits behind his desk, scanning

a stack of typed pages. A tired-looking cop named McCASKEY

lounges in the doorway. A Christmas tree in the corner

sheds needles.

Through the glass window, we can see Hallenbeck and Jimmy

seated outside in the squad room proper. Bessalo stops

reading. Sniffs the air. Frowns:

He flings the paper onto his desk.

CONTINUED:

McCaskey is staring out the window at Hallenbeck.

INT. SQUAD ROOM - SAME TIME

Outside the office Hallenbeck and Jimmy are perched side

by side on a wooden bench. Jimmy is crumpling pieces of

paper and tossing them at a wastebasket. He throws with

unerring accuracy. Beside him Hallenbeck frowns, deep in

thought. Finally, Jimmy speaks:

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck stares straight ahead.    Sighs and says:

Jimmy just looks at him.

At that moment, McCaskey pokes his head out of Bessalo's

office.

INT. PROPERTY ROOM - NIGHT

Hallenbeck is collecting his firearm from the property

clerk. Jimmy lounges against the wall. Winks at a

hooker as she goes by in the hall, followed by a patrol

cop.

Jimmy eyes his rumpled trousers.    Ripped shirt.

CONTINUED:

They start down the hallway, side by side.

A passing PATROLMAN stops.   Eyes Jimmy thoughtfully.

Frowns:

Jimmy grins, shrugs.   Obviously flattered.

CONTINUED:

He walks away.   Jimmy scowls.    Grumbles to himself.

As the two cross the muster room toward the front doors,

they pass the hooker we saw earlier. She is talking to

her pimp.

There is a heated exchange.     The pimp slaps her.   Hard.

Suddenly, Jimmy lunges forward.     Balling his fists.

He's ready to clean the pimp's clock when Hallenbeck

grabs him, spins him bodily. Propels him out the front

doors.

Away from trouble.

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

CONTINUED:

He's serious. Hallenbeck starts to chuckle. Shakes his

head, lights a cigarette. Laughs through the smoke.

This may be the funniest thing he's ever heard.

EXT. POLICE IMPOUND LOT - SAME TIME

Hallenbeck walks across the parking lot toward his car.

Jimmy trots behind him.

He approaches his battered Plymouth.    Jimmy scowls.

CONTINUED:

Joe gets in the car.   Says nothing.

He STARTS the CAR.

Joe puts it in gear.   Pulls away.

CONTINUED:

Joe taps the brake.    Stops.   Leans out the window, says

softly:

Joe gets out of the car and advances on Jimmy.

INT. CAR - DRIVING - NIGHT

Hallenbeck is in a foul mood. Jimmy lights a cigarette

and applies for a position as pep chairman:

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck grimaces and shifts in his seat.

He stops at a traffic light. Sees a torn poster on a

nearby telephone pole: CALIFORNIA HAS A VOICE - BAYNARD

FOR SENATE. He grumbles. Gives it the finger.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy stares at him, puzzled.

EXT. ADULT LIVING COMPLEX - NIGHT

Jimmy and Hallenbeck make their way down a flagstone walk

between tiny, palm-shaded cottages. The moon casts a

pale glow.

Jimmy shakes his head sadly.

EXT. MOONLIT COTTAGE

The two men approach the door.   Jimmy takes out his key

ring.

INT. COTTAGE

Jimmy opens the door.   Flips on the lights.     Stops in

his tracks.

The room has been systematically torn to pieces.

A knife has been used to rip open the couch.

Broken furniture, shredded clothing. Everywhere.

It looks like a combat zone.

Hallenbeck starts inspecting the wreckage.

INT. CLUTTERED BATHROOM

Jimmy enters and shuts the door behind him.

He scans the floor, covered with clothes, bottles, etc.

Picks up a carelessly discarded can of Right Guard

deodorant.

Turns it upside down, and unscrews the bottom.

Inside, the can is hollow and empty. The perfect hiding

place.

Jimmy heaves a sigh of relief. Removes a little plastic

Baggie filled with white powder. Stashes it in his

shorts.

Starts to replace the lid. Stops. Frowns.

Reaches into the can a second time --

And pulls out a yellow envelope.

He looks at it, perplexed.

Puts it in his pocket. Replaces the lid. Tosses the can

on the floor. Flushes the toilet. Leaves.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Hallenbeck, meanwhile, is prowling the living room,

looking at photographs on the walls.

The girl in the photos seems young, beautiful, and naive.

One shot depicts Cory and a friend in cheerleader outfits.

On it is scrawled, GOOD LUCK IN HOLLYWOOD BABY! LOVE,

JANIS

Hallenbeck gazes around the devastated cottage.

Jimmy emerges from the bathroom.

CONTINUED:

EXT. COTTAGE - NIGHT

The two men emerge from the house. Joe heads for his

car. Jimmy peels off toward a battered GMC Pacer parked

at the curb.

Hallenbeck starts to turn away.      Jimmy gets in the car.

Hallenbeck stops. Frowns.

The color drains from Hallenbeck's features.

He sprints across the sidewalk and yanks Jimmy out of the

driver's seat before he can key the ignition.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Hallenbeck kneels and peers under the car.

CONTINUED:

Swears softly as he sees two thin copper wires, glinting

in the moonlight.

Jimmy pales noticeably.

Hallenbeck claps him on the back.

He strolls toward his Plymouth, whistling.

Cheerfully unaffected.

Jimmy catches his breath. Swallows hard.

Turns, and bumps into Hallenbeck, coming back the other

way.

Hallenbeck brandishes a pair of wire-cutters.

He isolates one wire.    Turns and offers the cutters to

Jimmy.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy hesitates, then takes the cutters. Reaches beneath

the wheel well. Plucks at the wire tentatively. Cuts.

Jimmy screams and stumbles backward. Lands on his ass.

Hallenbeck is chuckling softly. Shakes his head as he

walks around to release the hood.

THREE STICKS OF DYNAMITE - ONE MINUTE LATER

have been taped to the car's ignition system. Hallenbeck

removes the taped bundle. Holds it up for inspection.

They start walking toward Hallenbeck's Plymouth.

Hallenbeck tosses the car keys to Jimmy.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy opens the trunk. As he does, however, a voice

rings out suddenly from the darkness.

They stop.   Slowly they turn.

TWO MEN

are approaching from out of the trees.

One holds a flashlight trained on Hallenbeck and Jimmy.

The other carries a silenced Beretta.

CONTINUED:

Working quickly, Hallenbeck tapes the bomb to the inside

of the truck lid. Slams it shut. Turns, facing the new

arrivals.

The MEN wear tailored suits with matching ties.

One is tall and lean. The other is a bruiser, short and

stout. They both have the seasoned look of professional

mob hitters.

The Taller Man speaks, gun held rock steady.

This from the Shorter Man, who is clearly not happy.

CONTINUED:

Jake slips on a pair of brass knuckles.

Steps up and delivers a looping right to Hallenbeck's

face. A sickening crunch. A two inch gash streams blood.

Jake relieves Hallenbeck of his gun.

Jimmy rushes forward, snarling. The Beretta swivels.

Jimmy stops, the gun aimed at his gut.

Another fist to the head.   Hallenbeck grunts.   Spits more

blood.

The Tall Man turns and eyes Jimmy.

The Short Man steps away from Hallenbeck. Turns and

launches a kick at Jimmy's groin. Connects. The kid

drops to the ground, retching.

CONTINUED:

Jake steps forward.

Hallenbeck speaks through cracked, bloody lips:

Hallenbeck meets the Tall Man's gaze.    Speaks softly.

Jimmy stumbles to his feet.    Looks at the Tall Man.

Jimmy takes out the car keys.    Crosses to Hallenbeck.

Gives him the keys.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck smiles.    Shakes his head.

He turns and throws the keys as far as he can.

They fall out of sight behind a cottage.

Jake steps forward, drawing a .38 silenced pistol.

He is going to shoot open the lock.

ANGLE ON HALLENBECK

This is what he's been waiting for. He tenses, looking

to one side: next to him is a sloping hillside, angling

down and away. He grips Jimmy's wrist, signalling to get

ready.

Jake raises the PISTOL.    Take aim at the lock and FIRES.

The SHOT is SILENCED.    What follows is not.

Because the bullet blows through the trunk --

And hits three sticks of live dynamite.

SERIES OF SHOTS

Hallenbeck is already moving, pitching to one side,

throwing himself and Jimmy down the hillside.

The night lights up like a SUNBURST.

A tower of fire...

Climbs up and outward from the car.

The TRUNK LID is BLOWN fifty feet in the air.

The tires are pulped.

GLASS SPRAYS for fifty yards in every direction.

And, most importantly:    both hitmen are engulfed in

flame.

CONTINUED:

SOUND. Fury.

Flames, rolling skyward.

TINKLE of raining GLASS.

Bits of falling metal.

All in all, a helluva blast, and meanwhile:

JIMMY AND JOE

continue to careen down the hillside.

Bouncing like rag puppets. Out of control.

Lurch to stop at the bottom.

Covered head to toe with dirt.      Bruised.   Bloody.

Alive.

They lie side by side, sucking air --

Until they both hear an odd noise:

The sound of CRUMPLING METAL.

The sound is GETTING LOUDER.

They both crane their necks in time to see --

The flaming car, tumbling end over end

Coming down the hill.

Heading straight for them.

They both dive for cover, out of the way.

Barely make it.

The CAR plows past them in a shower of dirt.

CRUMPLING. Heaving. Spitting fire.

Finally SLAMS to a halt against a palm tree.

Burns.

The night is filled with SHOUTS and CURSES.

The sound of DOORS OPENING. The crackle of flames.

ON GROUND

Joe rolls over.    Looks at Jimmy.    Jimmy looks at Joe.

CONTINUED:

They crawl to their feet, inspecting for broken bones.

He spits blood as SIRENS once more fill the night air,

APPROACHING.

Jimmy meets Joe's eyes.    Nods.   Dashes off into the night.

INT. L.A.P.D. ROBBERY/HOMICIDE DIVISION - NIGHT

Sergeant Benjamin Bessalo is in the mood to kick things.

A metal trashcan is booted across the room with a clang

as he whirls, glaring at Joe Hallenbeck, who is seated

before him.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck stares at him.   Blows smoke.    Says nothing.

INT. RENTAL CAR - DRIVING - NIGHT

Jimmy's at the wheel of a rented Subaru. Hallenbeck

beside him. He hands Joe the envelope he found in Cory's

apartment.

Hallenbeck reaches into the envelope and extracts a

photograph: Two men having lunch together on a secluded

patio.

Both are older, distinguished-looking.

Joe suddenly looks very pale.

Jimmy draws a sharp breath.   Pause, then:

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck nervously lights a cigarette.

Stares straight ahead through the windshield.   Begins to

talk:

MEMORY FLASH

Another time. Another night.

A younger-looking Hallenbeck.

Rugged features. Clipped military haircut.

He is driving.

Down a turnpike, squinting through dense evening mist.

Up ahead, a shape materializes out of the fog:

WRECKED CAR

is lying upside down in a pool of shattered glass.

He SCREECHES to a stop.

ANOTHER ANGLE

In a dream-like SLOW MOTION, he approaches the overturned

car.

There are two dead bodies inside.

A woman. A little boy.

In the window, a stuffed Garfield doll clings with

suction cups to the remaining glass. The furry cat is

splattered with blood.

CONTINUED:

STAGGERING DRUNK

is weaving toward Hallenbeck.

Leaving behind his crumpled Mercedes.

He wears an $800 suit. Tan Cordovan loafers.   Silk tie.

He stumbles toward Hallenbeck, eyes attempting to focus.

The man lurches to a stop in front of Hallenbeck.

Clutching at Joe's lapels. Wheezing liquor fumes.

He presses a hundred dollar bill into Joe's hand.

In SLOW MOTION, Hallenbeck backhands the rich drunk,

with a head-snapping impact that bursts lips. Breaks

teeth.

We see the Drunk's head slowly strike the asphalt.

A sickening concussion.

CONTINUED:

The younger Hallenbeck stands on the highway of eight

years past, staring at the Drunk with fierce, blazing

eyes as we --

JIMMY AND JOE - BACK TO PRESENT

Driving.

Jimmy is silent for a moment.   Then:

INT. PLUSH BEDROOM - NIGHT

A tall, thin, almost effeminate MAN is seated on a couch.

High cheekbones. A shock of blond hair.

Glittering, malignant eyes.

He is directing a pornographic film.

PRETTY GIRL

is bound hand and foot to the posts of a lavishly

appointed bed. Around her, the room is filled with

Kleig lights. Reflectors. Camera equipment.

The girl is scowling furiously.    She speaks to the

director:

A strident BEEPER GOES OFF on Milo's belt. He turns to

the two-man crew and claps his hands for attention.

The closet door opens. A hulking man emerges.

He is carrying a chainsaw.

The Girl on the bed stares, incredulous.

CONTINUED:

The hulking man pulls the starter cord.        The SAW ROARS

to life.

A smile twitches Milo's upper lip.

He exits.    Closes a sound-proofed door behind him.

INT. WOOD-PANELED STUDY - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Milo enters, all business.

Crosses to a telephone with a blinking light.

Stabs a button. Scoops up the receiver.

Milo sits and begins punching keys on a computer.

CONTINUED:

EXT. HALLENBECK HOME - LATE NIGHT

Dawn is a ghost on the horizon as Jimmy parks the rental

Subaru outside. The two men emerge. Head for the front

door.

INT. HALLENBECK HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION

As they come through the front door, Joe's daughter,

DARIAN, is slumped in a big Lazy-Boy, staring sullenly

at a movie on TV. Cute kid, cursed to wear ridiculous-

looking dental headgear.

She doesn't bother to look up.

CONTINUED:

She still won't look at him. The two men cross to the

kitchen. Hallenbeck opens the refrigerator, takes out

some lunchmeat.

Without missing a beat, Hallenbeck opens the window

and heaves the ice cream outside.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck takes her by the arm and drags her out of the

chair. Toward her room.

That stops him.   He looks at her, stricken.

She goes into her room and shuts the door.

Hallenbeck rubs his eyes. Leans against the wall,

exhausted.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck   crosses to a cabinet, breaks out a bottle of

Seagrams.    Swigs.  Hands it to Jimmy. As Jimmy drinks,

he notices   a photo on the wall: Hallenbeck shaking

hands with   George Bush.

Joe starts to fix a sandwich.      Jimmy takes nips from the

bottle.

He bites into the sandwich.      Not really tasting it.

CONTINUED:

He eats in silence.   Jimmy says:

CONTINUED:

He raises the bottle.

He drinks.   Hallenbeck frowns, watching him.

Hallenbeck stares at him.

CONTINUED:

He puts aside the bottle.    Scowls.

He exits.    Hallenbeck watches him go.     Says nothing.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Jimmy enters and shuts the door. Turns on the shower.

Makes no move to undress.

Instead, he reaches inside the waistband on his pants.

Removes a vial of coke. Dips a spoon.

The door opens.

Hallenbeck is standing there with a handful of fresh

towels. He stops. Staring at Jimmy. They freeze in

tableau.

Then Hallenbeck crosses the floor with two quick strides

and slugs Jimmy with all his might. Decks him.

The kid goes over backward into the shower, head striking

the porcelain. He swerves. Claws his way out, drenched.

CONTINUED:

He picks up the vial of powder.

He crosses to the toilet.    Jimmy cries out.

Joe drops the vial in the water. Flushes.

Jimmy darts forward. Joe shoves him back.

Jimmy glares at him.    Coldly defiant.

CONTINUED:

He grabs a towel.   Scrubs savagely at his wet torso.

He advances on Joe, trembling with anger.

And suddenly he is crying.

He collapses against the wall.

Slides down to a sitting position.   Huddled on the floor.

Hallenbeck watches him. Says nothing.

For a moment, he seems moved to compassion...

Then his gaze hardens. He kneels next to Jimmy.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy is silent.   He stands.     Exits into the hall.

Joe's daughter, Darian, is standing there.

There is an awkward pause. Darian holds out a football

card.

Young, smiling Jimmy.

The card is old. Tattered.

Hallenbeck steps forward.

Darian's face is a mask of confusion.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy walks past her to the front door.

Stops with his hand on the knob. Turns.

Joe is silent.   Stone-faced.

He exits. Shuts the door behind him.

Darian goes into her room, fuming. Shuts the door.

Joe is alone.    He turns.   Sees his reflection in the hall

mirror.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - DAWN

The first light of day streams through the window.

Hallenbeck pushes Furry Tom to one side.

Sits on the bed.

Regards his sleeping wife with hooded, lifeless eyes.

She is peaceful. Serene. He reaches out to touch her.

Stops. Withdraws his hand.

Crushes out the cigarette. Stands. Leaves.

INT. DARIAN'S ROOM - SAME TIME

Hallenbeck enters. Crosses to Darian's bed.

She is asleep. She looks vulnerable. Helpless.

He leans over and kisses her.

She stirs in her sleep.

Murmurs:

Hallenbeck recoils.

Stares at her.

The DOORBELL RINGS.

Startling him. He mutters under his breath.

Stalks out of the room.

ANOTHER ANGLE - FRONT DOOR

Down the hall to the front door.   Flings it open, pissed

off.

It isn't Jimmy.

Standing on the porch is a tall, thin man with blond

hair. The man removes a TASER GUN from his overcoat.

He FIRES point-blank.

The electrode hits Hallenbeck in the chest.

A CRACKLE of electric current. Hallenbeck jerks

spastically.

The world spirals away.

He plunges down into darkness.

INT. CLUTTERED APARTMENT - MORNING

Jimmy looks bad.

Sprawled out on a tangle of dirty sheets.

Jeans. Bare feet.

Smoking.

Staring at a football card.

A duplicate of the one Darian showed him.

He swings his legs off the bed.

Stands, crushes out his cigarette.

Moves into the bathroom.

The Baggie of coke is on the counter.

He stares at it with bloodshot eyes.

Swallows hard.

Acts before he can think.

Grabs the Baggie. Tosses it in the toilet.

Flushes. Watches as it goes down the drain.

EXT. CASA LOMA APARTMENTS - MORNING

Another Goddamned day.

A chill drizzle. The palm trees look forlorn.

AT CORNER NEWSSTAND

Jimmy buys a paper. Trudges along Ventura Boulevard.

Huddled against the chill.

SLEEK, BLACK SEDAN

slides to the curb in front of him.

Two men get out:

One is Pablo, who last we saw wielding a chainsaw in

Milo's snuff film; the other is an ugly piece of hired

muscle who we'll call CHET.

The two men flank Jimmy and walk alongside him.

He looks up, startled.

CONTINUED:

And, with that, they grab Jimmy under the arms.

Carry him across the sidewalk to a plywood fence.

They toss Jimmy over the fence.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Not a terrible fate, under normal circumstances.

In this case, however --

A fifty-foot drop...

Awaits him beyond the fence.

A huge, looming pit dug into the earth.

Foundation for a new parking garage.

Jimmy plummets like a stone.

Under normal circumstances, he'd be dead.

But since it rained last night, he's got three feet of

water to land in.

He hits with a splash.   Disappears beneath the water.

Surfaces, screaming in pain.

Thrashes in the muddy water, and only when he looks down

does he notice the splintered bone jutting out of his

skin at a crazy angle.

CONTINUED:

His million-dollar arm.    His throwing arm.

He clutches at cracked ribs, screaming:

He kneels in the muddy water, rocking back and forth.

LONG SHOT - JIMMY

Alone in the pit.

Huddled in a pool of muddy water.

His screams of pain ECHO in the chill, morning air.

INT. LAPD ROBBERY/HOMICIDE DIVISION - DAY

Ben Bessalo's office, to be precise.

Bessalo reclines grumpily at his desk. Scanning reports.

McCaskey hangs up the phone and calls across the room:

Bessalo looks up, intrigued.    McCaskey continues:

CONTINUED:

Bessalo sits bolt upright.   Eyes glazed.   Wheels turning.

Realization hits him like a thunderbolt.

He stabs a button on the phone.   Barks into the receiver:

He slams down the phone.   Stares, stricken, at McCaskey.

And, with that, we promptly --

JOE HALLENBECK'S UNCONSCIOUS FACE

Weathered.   Sallow.   Dark circles under the eyes.

HAND

comes INTO FRAME and slaps him.    Hard.

Rocks his head to one side.

INT. ELEGANT BEACH HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - ANOTHER ANGLE

Thick carpet. Polished, wood furniture.     Window walls.

Outside, the sea is angry and grey.

PABLO AND CHET

are standing over Hallenbeck, who is slumped in a chair.

Both hitmen wear holstered sidearms.

Chet leans over and slaps Hallenbeck again.

The big detective begins to stir.

His eyelids flutter.

Chet's hand flashes out for a third slap --

And from nowhere, Joe Hallenbeck's hand magically

appears.

Intercepts the blow.

Clamps onto Chet's hand and wrenches it.

A cry of pain.

Chet stumbles backward, cradling the wrist.

His eyelids creak open.

He squints, adjusting to the light.

Studies his captors.

CONTINUED:

He starts pawing his coat pockets, looking for a cigarette.

In the corner, Pablo chuckles:

Chet is seething.     He glares at Hallenbeck.

Hallenbeck yawns.

Hallenbeck ignores him.     Sits up.   Rubs tired eyes.

Chet steps forward.     Grins wickedly.

He reaches into his shirt pocket. Extracts a Marlboro.

Hands it to Hallenbeck. Takes out a lighter.

Hallenbeck places the cigarette between his lips.

Leans forward for a light --

And Chet slugs him in the face.

The cigarette goes flying.

Hallenbeck's head snaps back.

Blood creeps from his lower lip.

Hallenbeck's eyes glint fiercely.      He takes a breath.

Leans forward and says:

Chet turns, meets his gaze.     The grin falters a bit.

CONTINUED:

He hands Hallenbeck another smoke.

Hallenbeck puts it between his lips.

A pregnant pause.

The challenge hangs in the air.

Slowly, Chet takes the lighter from his pocket.

Pablo looks on, a smile twisting his features.

Hallenbeck leans forward for a light.

Chet extends his arm --

And slugs Hallenbeck in the face again.

Rocks him.

Chet howls with laughter.

Pablo grins.

The laughter continues.

Hallenbeck takes a deep breath.

Stands up.

Strikes with a flattened palm.

Breaks Chet's nose.

Drives it up into the brain.

Chet stands, pole-axed. Blinks once.

Pitches over dead.

And suddenly Pablo isn't laughing.

He stares at Hallenbeck, incredulous.

Stares at Chet, lying on the carpet.

He rushes to Chet. Kneels beside him.

Hallenbeck calmly returns to his seat.

Hallenbeck says nothing.

CONTINUED:

At that moment, a door opens, and Milo enters.

Slick. Well-dressed. Utterly composed.

Milo looks toward Hallenbeck. Hallenbeck says nothing.

Instead, he calmly leans forward and picks up Chet's

lighter from the carpet. Lights his cigarette. Blows

smoke.

A tense moment... and then Milo does something un-

expected: He starts to laugh. Advances into the room,

chuckling.

He draws a Walther PPK and approaches Hallenbeck.

Smiling and cheerful.

Milo nods as if this makes perfect sense.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly a voice rings out from the doorway:

Hallenbeck turns toward the new arrival.

Sure enough, CONRAD MARCON saunters in, just like he owns

the place. Which, by the way, he does. Tall, strong,

Texas-tough. Dressed in a Saville Row suit. He frowns

at Hallenbeck:

CONTINUED:

Marcon's composure falters, but only for a moment.

He takes a moment to gather his thoughts.

Pablo hands him a double bourbon.

Marcon looks directly at Hallenbeck.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck reacts, startled.   Looks at Milo.

It begins to dawn on Hallenbeck.

CONTINUED:

Marcon stops pacing.   Sighs and sits down facing

Hallenbeck.

Hallenbeck actually does a spit-take.     Sprays bourbon.

CONTINUED:

Marcon says nothing.   Just looks at Hallenbeck and

smiles.

He rubs tired eyes.

Hallenbeck scowls.

CONTINUED:

He motions to Milo, who disappears through a doorway.

Reappears a moment later.

He's got Joe's wife.

ANGLE ON HALLENBECK

He stands. Face contorting. Fists clenched.

Rage courses through him like an electric current.

Marcon cocks his gun.

A moment.    Joe stands, smouldering.   On fire.   Sarah

speaks:

Joe sits. Breathing shallowly.

Eyes locked on Milo.

He meets Joe's murderous gaze... and smiles.

INT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM - DAY

Meanwhile, back at the ranch, Jimmy is seated, shirtless,

on a metal examining table. His ribs are taped. His

arm in a cast.

Two men loom over him, sour expressions on their faces:

Sergeants McCaskey and Bessalo.

Jimmy shakes his head, exasperated:

Bessalo grimaces in disgust.

He glares defiantly at Bessalo.

EXT. CASA LOMA APARTMENTS - DAY

The grey day wears on.

Jimmy trudges stiffly down the walk toward his apartment

unit. Pulls up short, staring ahead --

DARIAN HALLENBECK

Slumped outside the door to his apartment. Asleep.      A

crumpled piece of paper clutched in her hand.

He kneels beside her.    Touches her shoulder.

She stirs. Awakens, looking at him.

Her eyes are puffy and red from crying.

Her hair is a tangled mess.

She hands him the piece of paper, and promptly bursts

into tears.

Buries her head in his chest, sobbing.

He cradles her with his good arm.

Awkwardly unfolds the crumpled paper and reads:

He stares at the note, dumbstruck.

EXT. BEACH HOUSE - DAY

A savage wind sweeps in off the ocean.

Gulls wheel overhead.

FORTY FOOT YACHT

is tethered to a wooden dock outside the beach house.

Milo and his crew prepare to cast off. Meanwhile:

PABLO

approaches along the dock, looking lean and mean in an

Izod shirt.

He stops in front of Sarah and Joe Hallenbeck.

CONTINUED:

They are seated on the dock.

Each handcuffed to a metal railing.

Pablo kneels and unfastens Joe's cuffs.

Pablo delivers a savage kick to Hallenbeck's ribs.

Hallenbeck gasps in pain.

Pablo hauls him to his feet.    Props him against the

railing.

He slams a fist into Hallenbeck's middle.

Sarah cries out in alarm.

And with that, Pablo lets him have it.

Rains punches on his chest and gut.

Slams an elbow into his kidneys.

Drives a knee into his groin.

Joe hits the deck.

Milo calls out from the boat:

Pablo is kicking Joe's prone form.

CONTINUED:

Pablo gives Joe a last swift kick. Spits on him.

Hallenbeck vomits. Lies bleeding on the dock.

Sarah crawls over to him. As far as the cuffs will

allow. Cradles his head in her lap.

Hallenbeck looks at her like she's just grown three

heads.

A pause.   Then Hallenbeck heaves a sigh.

CONTINUED:

He stares up at her for a moment.      Then, through bloody

lips:

And he smiles.

Just then, Milo signals from the boat.

Seeing, this, Pablo approaches the couple again.

He yanks Sarah to her feet.

Lets his gaze roam up and down her body.

He rips open her blouse.   Roughly fondles her breasts.

Hallenbeck. On the ground.

He growls with fury. Starts to push himself up.

CONTINUED:

At that moment, Milo comes striding down the dock.

Whistling cheerfully.

He squats next to Joe.

He yanks Hallenbeck to his feet.

Propels him toward the boat.

As her husband is being led away, Sarah calls out:

He stops.    Turns.   Looks at her.

Boys and girls, there is, within Joe Hallenbeck, a spark:

Tiny. Fizzling. Almost gone.

But now, looking at his wife, that spark unexpectedly

kindles --

And eight years melt away.

Just like that.

The old Joe Hallenbeck looks his wife in the eye and

says, with deadly calm:

CONTINUED:

Milo clubs Joe in the head with his pistol.

Hallenbeck turns. Dirty. Tired.        Unshaven.   Bloody.

He looks at Milo... and grins:

They stare into each other's eyes.

Hallenbeck does not give an inch.

Milo hits him again.

INT. TOPANGA CANYON HOME - DAY

Remember Jimmy's friend, Henry, who we met briefly near

the opening of the film? Of course you do, you're a

highly-paid reader or development person.

Well, Henry is seated in a big, lived-in den watching

football films. The walls around him are adorned with

hunting paraphernalia. Rifles. Trophies.

There is a KNOCK at the door. He gets up.

Crosses to the door. Opens it.

And Jimmy Dix is there.     He gets right to the point:

INT. EXPENSIVE, WOOD-PANELED OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Conrad Marcon sits behind a huge teak desk.

Surrounded by football paraphernalia. Paintings.

Trophies.

The PHONE CHIRPS.     He picks up the receiver.    Stabs a

button.

INTERCUT:

ON SHIPBOARD - MILO

He hangs up.

Marcon replaces the receiver and chuckles.

He turns, and suddenly we realize he's not alone in the

room: a STRANGE MAN is seated in the shadows off to one

side. His face is obscured... Marcon addresses him:

CONTINUED:

The Man in the corner nods, then speaks. As he does, we

notice he has a speech impediment; it sounds like he's

talking with his mouth full.

EXT. LONG BEACH BOAT YARD - AFTERNOON

A sign reads, BOAT RENTALS:   DAY AND WEEK.

Jimmy moves briskly down a concrete ramp toward a

Hatteras sport charter. He is obsessed. Determined.

Darian trots along behind him. She's holding up pretty

well, considering.

He swings a bag of gear onto the boat.   Starts to store

it.

CONTINUED:

His gear stashed, he turns to Darian.   Tries a smile.

Jimmy almost chokes...

CONTINUED:

Jimmy stares straight ahead.   Takes a deep breath.

EXT. CATALINA ISLAND - ESTABLISHING SHOT - NIGHT

The island sits beneath a dark, cloud-filled sky.

Fog nestles in the foothills, rolling in off the ocean.

CATALINA FERRY

slices through the murk, filled with light, laughter,

MUSIC.

ON SHORE

Boats are arriving at a private dock.

A steady stream of guests. Tuxedoes and evening gowns.

A parade of phony hair and phony boobs.

All mounting the stairs to a huge chalet.

Inside, a dinner party is in progress.

INT. OPULENT LIVING ROOM - PARTY

in progress.

People with six-figure incomes.

Pretending they're important.

Mingling. Schmoozing.

At a raised bar, Conrad Marcon bends the ear of a

Japanese businessman. A lot of laughter. Back-slapping.

A sudden commotion near the front door.

FLASHBULBS POP. People crane their necks.

Marcon turns to look, as:

SENATOR CALVIN BAYNARD

enters the party, surrounded by an entourage of men in

Armani suits. Seeing this, Marcon's face changes.

Gone is the affable Texan.

In his place, a ruthless murderer.

He smiles.

AUTOMATIC RIFLE

as a thirty-shot clip is snapped into place.

INT. FORTY-FOOT YACHT - CABIN - NIGHT

Milo is preparing the weapon.

He works the action. Pumps a round into the chamber.

Looks up at Hallenbeck, who is bound hand and foot.

Seated across from him in the boat's cabin.

He pulls a switchblade out of his Windbreaker.

Hallenbeck says nothing.

CONTINUED:

Milo studies Hallenbeck the way a museum curator might

study a new species of fish.

Milo chuckles, shakes his head.

He leans forward.

EXT. PRIVATE DOCK - NIGHT

Boats, lots of them. Sportfishers. Yachts. Floating

boats. Money, money, everywhere, and plenty of drinks

to drop.

HATTERAS SPORT BOAT

PURRS quietly into the harbor.    Jimmy at the rudder.

Nudges up to the dock.

In the chalet above, the party rages.

SERIES OF SHOTS - JIMMY'S PREPARATION

Jimmy lashes the boat.

Goes below.

Grabs a tuxedo from the closet.

Stands, dressed, in front of the mirror.

Opens a box. Removes a 9 millimeter Baretta.

Works the slide. Jacks a bullet into the cylinder.

Stashes it in the waistband of his pants:

In back. Concealed by the tuxedo.

Studies his own grim face in the mirror.

EXT. DECK - NIGHT

Jimmy emerges from the cabin.    Heads for the rail.

A voice calls out:

He turns, and sees Darian Hallenbeck.

Peeking her head out from under a tarpaulin.

Jimmy shakes his head.   Exasperated.

CONTINUED:

Darian starts to protest.

He throws her the keys.

Darian takes the keys.   Frowns, says:

He swings over the side, onto the dock.

INT. MILO'S YACHT - CABIN - SAME TIME

Milo speaks to Hallenbeck.   Clipped.    Businesslike.

Milo nods.   Points to two identical suitcases in the

corner.

CONTINUED:

He opens one of the cases.   Hallenbeck stares.

HUNDRED DOLLAR BILLS

Twenty thousand of them, to be precise.   Neatly bundled.

He points to the identical twin.

With a flourish, Milo pulls aside a tablecloth.

Under the table is a five gallon can of gasoline.

Just then, one of Milo's crew sticks his head in the

door.

EXT. YACHT - ON DECK - NIGHT

Milo's yacht is anchored about a half mile offshore.

Island lights blink in the distance. Fog rolls in.

Milo emerges from the cabin onto the deck.

Crosses to the railing, looks down at:

FISHING BOAT

bobbing in the water about thirty yards away.

A FISHERMAN is waving his arms. Hailing them.

Beside him, his wife and seventeen-year-old son.

Milo swears under his breath.    Calls out:

Milo's crewman steps up to the rail.    Speaks urgently:

Milo ponders for maybe three seconds.    Then he calls out:

The Fisherman turns.    His family beside him.

CONTINUED:

He reaches under his Windbreaker.

Pulls out an Ingram model MACHINE GUN.

OPENS FIRE.

The entire family is blown away.

WOOD SPLINGERS POP and fly.

GLASS SHATTERS.

The bodies topple like broken toys.

Milo ceases fire.   Turns to his crewman.

He saunters away as if nothing unusual has occurred.

EXT. PARTY HOUSE - NIGHT

Jimmy is strolling along a hedge behind the house.

Looking for a back entrance.

He hears VOICES, approaching.

Pulls up short. Ducks into the shadows.

Senator Baynard goes by, with two bodyguards.

Brisk. Businesslike.

The head for the boats.

Jimmy stares after them, mind racing.

Makes a decision: heads for the boats.

Following Baynard.

INT./EXT. JIMMY'S BOAT - NIGHT

Jimmy casts off the lines.

Heads for the cockpit. Darian is inside.

CONTINUED:

He keys the ignition.

She runs below decks.

Jimmy looks up:

The Senator's boat, a sleek, powerful Marlineer, is even

now pulling out of the cove.

He throttles forward.

The Hatteras pulls away from the dock.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The sound of THUNDERING ROTORS, as a refitted Bell Cobra

HELICOPTER cuts through the night sky over Catalina.

Banks sharply, cruises offshore.

INT. COCKPIT - SAME

The PILOT works the stick while the CO-PILOT searches the

water below through infra-red binoculars. He speaks into

a microphone.

CONTINUED:

INTERCUT WITH:

MILO'S YACHT - SAME TIME

Milo is at the other end of the connection.

Beside him, two crewmen.

As Milo goes topside, one of the men tapes Joe's mouth.

The other opens a cramped storage compartment.

They stuff him inside.   Shut and lock the door.

EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - NIGHT

About two miles offshore. The Senator's Marlineer cuts

through the waves, converging with Milo's yacht.

The two boats pull up alongside.    The lines are made fast.

One of Milo's crewmen greets Senator Baynard's AIDE, a

slick-looking Italian in a $1,000 overcoat.

Baynard's man hops from one boat to the other.

Boarding Milo's yacht. Meanwhile --

EXT. OFFSHORE WATERS - IN FOGBANK

Jimmy Dix is clearly lost.

He bangs his fist in frustration.

CONTINUED:

They're clearly having no fun.

INT. MILO'S YACHT - CABIN - SAME TIME

The payoff is in progress.

One of Milo's crewmen carries the suitcase over to the

wall. Places it on a built-in counter. Underneath the

suitcase is a half-finished jigsaw puzzle. Off to one

side is a half-empty coffee container.

The case is opened.   Greenbacks galore.

Baynard's Aide whistles softly.

Examines the stacks of bills. Nods, satisfied.

Just then Milo enters the cabin.   Adopts a harsh New York

accent as he angrily barks:

CONTINUED:

As Baynard's man assumes the position --

Milo hits a concealed button.

It happen in less than a second: the built-in counter

rotates into the wall, only to be replaced by an

indentical counter.

Identical half-finished jigsaw puzzle. Identical coffee

cup. And, of course, the identical suitcase.

The indignant Aide turns around, pat-down concluded.

Milo smiles apologetically.

He hands over the suitcase.

BACK TOPSIDE

Baynard's man emerges onto the deck, carrying the suitcase.

Steps over the rail, crossing to the Senator's boat.

Gives a thumbs up to the men waiting there.

They cast off the lines.   Freeing the two boats.

INT. MILO'S YACHT - BRIDGE

Milo watches, tense.

As the lines are freed, he says:

INT. SENATOR'S CABIN - SAME TIME

The go-between heads   below deck, carrying the suitcase.

Senator Baynard puts   down his wine glass.

Looks up, expectant.

The Aide flashes an "A-Okay" grin.

Sets the suitcase on a table. Meanwhile --

INT. JIMMY'S SPORT BOAT - BRIDGE

Jimmy has had about enough.    He sighs with frustration.

Stares ahead into the fog.

CONTINUED:

The words are barely out of his mouth when he hears a

throbbing NOISE, growing louder... Darian looks up

puzzled.

And with that --

AIR ONE

bursts from the fog.

Directly in front of them.

Hovers like an avenging angel, TURBINES SCREAMING --

Rotor wash sprays in every direction.

The noise is deafening.

INT. AIR ONE - COCKPIT

The PILOT grabs the mike and shouts into it:

INT. MILO'S YACHT - BRIDGE

Milo snaps his head to one side, hearing this.

Grabs the mike:

ANOTHER ANGLE

Jimmy's BOAT ROARS out of the fog...

And suddenly he's in a world of shit.

Less than fifty yards to port is Milo's yacht.

Fifty years to starboard is the Senator's Marlineer.

He GUNS the ENGINE.     Spins the wheel, banks to port.

AIR ONE

screams past, cutting across the bow, nearly taking off

the roof --

Jimmy, wrestling the wheel, and meanwhile --

INT. BAYNARD'S CABIN

The Senator actually has his hands on the suitcase to

open it, when one of his MEN yells:

The guy relays the order, and:

EXT. HIGH SEAS

Baynard's Marlineer surges forward.

Full throttle, heading for shore, as --

EXT. MILO'S YACHT

Milo skids out on deck, grabbing for his machine gun.

Calls out:

A crewman grabs a pair of binoculars.       Meanwhile --

INSIDE STORAGE COMPARTMENT

Hallenbeck has no fucking idea what's going on, but he

can hear everthing that's said, as:

BACK ON DECK

the Crewman lowers the binoculars in disbelief:

INT. STORAGE COMPARTMENT

Hallenbeck's face goes through various stages of shock.

It's nothing compared to when he hears:

With that, he goes berserk.

Draws his legs back, thunders them against the compart-

ment doors. Kicks with all his might. Over and over

like a crazed horse, as:

BACK TOPSIDE

Air One does a flyby, circling, awaiting instructions.

ON DECK

Milo grabs the hand mike and says:

INT. YACHT - SAME TIME

With a final, resounding crash, Hallenbeck kicks open the

compartment. Topples out onto the cabin floor.

CONTINUED:

Works his bound hands over his knees so they're now tied

in front of him.

Everybody's topside; for the moment, at least, he is

forgotten.

He half crawls, half lurches over to the kitchen nook.

Worms beneath the table... awkward, desperate...

Drags out the can of gasoline.

Tries to unscrew the top.   No dice.   Can't get a grip.

Finally, in frustration, he tips the can on its side.

Brings his legs up in the air --

Slams them down on the can.

Over and over until, with a metallic pop -- ! it bursts.

Floods gasoline over the carpet, meanwhile:

BACK TOPSIDE

Milo's yacht is plowing ahead, gaining on Jimmy's

Hatteras. The crew members take up positions on the

prow. OPEN FIRE.

WITH JIMMY

As he throws Darian to the deck, shields her with his

body.

The wheelhouse is RAKED by GUNFIRE.

He grits his teeth. Reaches beneath his tux.

Yanks out the BERETTA and returns FIRE, BAM -- BAM -- !

and meanwhile:

INT. YACHT CABIN

Hallenbeck is opening a box of kitchen matches with his

teeth.

Dozens of matches fall scattered on the carpet.

He releases the box. Bends. Picks up a single match in

his teeth.

Presses his face to the wall.   Gives his neck a wrench --

Lights the match.

He drops the match on top of the GAS CAN.

CONTINUED:

A WHOOSH of combustion.    It bursts into flame.

Joe swivels around. Balancing on his backside.

Thrusts his legs into the fire.

Strains. Pulls. Sweat runs in rivers.

Until the ropes binding his legs snap.

He lurches to his feet, lets free.

Now there's only one problem: He's on fire.

The legs of his pants are soaked with gas.

Flames race up his legs.

He plunges headlong up the stairs.

ON TO DECK

where he hurtles toward the rail, dives --

into the sea, swallowed by the waves.

A CREWMAN suddenly screams:

Fire, indeed.    It's a rapidly-spreading blaze.

The pursuit is momentarily forgotten as the crew races to

put out the fire, and meanwhile:

HALLENBECK

surfaces, gasping for air.    Trying to swim with his hands

tied.

DARIAN

spots him first. Sees her father bobbing like a cork in

the ocean, screams:

Jimmy whirls around, startled.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy spins the wheel. Banks hard to port.

Brings the boat around in an arc. Yells to Darian:

She grabs the wheel. Jimmy bends down. Opens a compart-

ment. Takes out the boat's anchor. Metal hook, attached

to seventy yards of chain. He hefts it like a grappling

hook.

And, sure, his left arm isn't his good arm --

But, boy, does he heave that anchor.

It soars through space, chain playing out behind it...

Hits water, thirty yards past Hallenbeck --

Who turns, sees the anchor skimming toward him over the

waves.

EXT. MILO'S YACHT

Milo, meanwhile, has also spotted Hallenbeck.

He growls in rage.   Hefts the Ingram machine gun, as:

ANOTHER ANGLE

Hallenbeck thrusts forward, hooks his bound hands around

the passing anchor and whoosh -- !

He is catapulted forward, jerked like a rag puppet.

BULLETS CHOP the water where he just was.

He skims over the waves. Bounced. Battered.

Trailing behind Jimmy at fifty miles an hour.

Jimmy and Darian begin to haul him in.

Struggling. Straining.

The boat rushing headlong, driverless.

With a last, desperate surge of energy --

They drag Hallenbeck over the side. Into the boat.

CONTINUED:

She collapses, weeping, atop her father.

Hugs him for all she's worth.

GUNFIRE splits the air.

Reminds them they're not out of the woods.

MILO'S YACHT

is behind them again. The fire is out.      The chase is on.

It steadily cuts the distance.

JIMMY'S BOAT

Hallenbeck staggers to his feet.

He stumbles into the wheelhouse.   Dazed.   Barely

conscious.

Into the fog they go, and, folks --

This is really scary.

Because you can't see a foot in front of your face.

They plunge through the fog at fifty miles an hour.

Hallenbeck sweats, eyes glued to the windshield.

CONTINUED:

And then a shape materializes off to port:

Milo's yacht.

Running alongside. Drawing closer.

Hallenbeck wrestles the wheel. No dice.

The yacht draws ever closer... men on deck... machine

guns...

Joe looks over... and his face tells the story:

Except, just then, a strange thing happens:

Milo's yacht veers off to the left. Away from

Hallenbeck. Jimmy stares, dumbfounded.

A pause... then it hits Joe like a thunderbolt:

The boat slews to the left, as, from out of the fog --

The Catalina ferry looms right in front of them.

They almost make it.

As it is, they avoid a head-on.   Instead, they hit

broadside.

A sickening CRUNCH -- !

Jimmy and Joe are thrown from their feet.

A momentary glimpse of faces rushing past -- Horrified

tourists -- And then the ferry is behind them.

Jimmy gets up. Staggers to the controls.

Pushes the throttle. The boat lurches forward --

Then SPUTTERS. Fizzles.

He swears violently.

CONTINUED:

EXT. FOG BANK - SAME TIME

The crippled boat chugs through the mist.

JIMMY

swears again.   Bangs his fist.

Jimmy flicks off the lights. Grabs the mike. As he

does, a VIBRATING RUMBLE fills the cockpit, causing him

to pause... and then stare in shock as their boat emerges

from the fog --

And Air One hovers directly overhead.

The two men watch, helpless, as the helicopter descends,

the Co-Pilot taking aim with a LAWS rocket.

They both hit the floor.    Hands over their heads --

And then the pilot makes a costly error:

He descends right into the path of Milo's yacht.

With no warning whatsoever, the boat comes bursting out

of the fog --

PLOWS right INTO the HELICOPTER.

Second number one: The boat pierces the chopper, rips it

to shreds.

Second number two: The whole boat-slash-chopper mix

erupts in a shower of wood and fiberglass. Turns night

into day.

JIMMY AND JOE

are still huddled on the floor.

Pause. They look up. Bewildered.

There was a big light... Big noise...

Why aren't they dead?

ANOTHER ANGLE

They move like sleepwalkers to the cockpit window.

Stare in disbelief. Joe looks at Jimmy. Jimmy at Joe.

Debris rains down.

EXT. CRASH SITE - MINUTES LATER

Jimmy, Joe and Darian are on deck, chugging through the

wreckage. Darian clings to her father's arm, in shock.

Hallenbeck sees something in the distance.    Squints:

Jimmy looks:    A bright object... going in circles...

He starts to turn away. Notices something in the water.

Speaks over his shoulder to Jimmy.

Jimmy hands him a long, wooden pole with a hooked end.

He fishes in the water. Snares a large, floating object.

Swings it aboard. Drops it at Jimmy's feet.

The suitcase.

CONTINUED:

He turns away.    Jimmy bends to open the suitcase.

Joe heads into the cockpit, Darian beside him.

Steers the boat away from the crash site. Toward the

senator's boat. Chugs forward on half an engine.

O.S., Jimmy suddenly yells:

EXT. BAYNARD'S BOAT - SAME TIME

The once-mighty Marlineer runs aimless circles in the

mist. Half the cockpit is blown away, probably by a LAWS

rocket.

The Hatteras pulls up alongside, and Hallenbeck steps to

the rail, carrying the Baretta.

He swings aboard the senator's boat.

Gun cocked. Ready.

INT. SENATOR'S BOAT - COCKPIT

Enters the cockpit. What's left of the roof is bullet-

pocked.

The navigator is dead. Slumped over the controls.

Joe pulls him off the panel. KILLS the ENGINE.

INT. MAIN CABIN

Joe bursts inside.    Hard and fast.   Gun leveled.

No need. It's a slaughterhouse.

The walls are perforated. Baynard and his men are dead.

The suitcase's evil twin lies unopened on the table.

Hallenbeck walks over to Baynard's lifeless body.

Stares into the wide-open eyes.

EXT. LONG BEACH BOAT RENTALS - NIGHT

The senator's boat pulls up to the dock.     No one is

around.

EXT. DOCK - SAME TIME

Hallenbeck crouches next to Darian, looks her in the eye.

She throws her arms around him.

INT. RENTAL SUBARU - DRIVING - NIGHT

All business now. Deadly serious.

Jimmy and Joe stare ahead through the windshield.    Grim.

Tense.

In the back seat sits the coveted suitcase.

He cuts the headlights.   Cruises to a stop behind a road-

side dumpster.

EXT. HALLENBECK'S HOUSE (WEST L.A.) - NIGHT

They creep across a suburban lawn, hugging the shadows.

CONTINUED:

Across the street, Hallenbeck's house is dark.       Deserted.

Truly a sight: Jimmy, in a white shirt and tuxedo pants,

nursing a broken arm; and Joe, drenched to the skin,

pants hanging in scorched tatters.

Joe suddenly puts up a restraining hand. They stop.

Crouched behind a eucalyptus tree. Joe points:

THEIR POV

A late-model Buick is parked just up the street from his

house...

There is a man slouched inside. Smoking.

BACK TO SCENE

Hallenbeck shoots him a withering look.

EXT. COASTAL WATERS - NIGHT

A Coast Guard cutter is circling the site of the boat/

chopper crash. A uniformed ENSIGN shines a light on the

dark waters.

MILO

is draped over a piece of wooden wreckage.

Half his hair is burned away. His face is blistered.

He looks up, pleading, at the Ensign, as:

ANOTHER ANGLE

He hides the Ingram beneath his body, cocked and ready.

INT. PARKED BUICK - NIGHT

The sour stakeout cop reaches for a job necessity: the

pot to piss in. He undoes his fly. Pees into an old

Maxwell House coffee can.

Opens the door to dump it out.

A hand reaches in, lightning quick.

Grabs the can, throws it back in his face.

As he jerks backward, blinded, the hand knocks him cold.

EXT. BUICK - SAME TIME

Hallenbeck drags the unconscious cop from the car.

INT. HALLENBECK'S BEDROOM - MINUTES LATER

The cop is bound and gagged in the corner.      Unconscious.

Hallenbeck moves hurriedly. Not a second to waste.

Pulls a dark turtleneck from a drawer.

Rips off the sleeve. Throws it to Jimmy.

He strips off his own shirt.   Crosses to the closet.

He hands Jimmy a shotgun and a box of odd, black

cylinders.

CONTINUED:

He reaches into the closet. Pulls out a sniper rifle.

The rifle. The one responsible for the puckered scar on

his chest.

EXT. HALLENBECK'S HOUSE - SAME TIME

Jimmy emerges, starts across the lawn.

Pulls up short. Stares ahead at:

HIS POV - TWO BLACK SEDANS

parked at the curb.

BACK TO SCENE

He starts to cry out --

And a dark figure looms behind him.

Clubs him in the head.

INT. HALLENBECK'S BEDROOM - SAME TIME

Hallenbeck snaps a full magazine into the rifle.

Stuffs extras into a black Windbreaker.

Hears a NOISE. Looks up, expecting Jimmy --

Draws a sharp breath:

PABLO AND ASSORTED GOONS

standing in the doorway. All of them have guns.

Pablo grins, shakes his head:

PAD AND PAPER

as they're placed in front of Hallenbeck.

He is seated on the bed. Three guns covering him.

Beside him sits Furry Tom, grinning his stuffed-toy grin.

A GOON sticks his head in the door.

The Goon departs, leaving Hallenbeck with Pablo and two

others. He studies them. Calculates the odds. Verdict:

Bad.

CONTINUED:

Pablo draws his pistol.

PUMPS TWO SHOTS into the unconscious cop in the corner.

Pablo is making a big mistake, but he doesn't know it.

He is fueling Joe Hallenbeck's rage.

Pity the fool.

Hallenbeck regards him with dead, lifeless eyes.

A thoroughly unnerving stare.

Then Joe does something very odd.

He says, softly:

There is a pause... And then, incredibly -- Furry Tom

answers. A high-pitched, squeaky stuffed cat voice.

Dead silence. Pablo is completely thrown; so are we, for

that matter... and then it hits us: Joe is doing ven-

triloquism.

And the funny thing is, he's really good.

Pablo overcomes his shock.

Hallenbeck's face remains cold.    Expressionless.

CONTINUED:

Pablo can't help it.   He bursts out laughing.

Hallenbeck picks up Furry Tom. Inserts his hand, makes

the furry head bob back and forth.

By now, all three hoods are in hysterics.

And, with that, Furry Tom's mouth opens --

And EXPLODES, showering stuffing.

One of the goons is still laughing when he realizes half

his throat is gone...

And Furry Thomas BELCHES FIRE again, and the second goon

goes down in a spray of blood, and if you haven't guessed

already --

Joe has a gun hidden inside Furry Thomas.

Pablo is a little sharper. A little quicker.

He dives forward, knocks the puppet from Joe's hand.

Joe drives upward, into Pablo's gut.

They reel across the room. Locked in combat.

Lamps topple. GLASS BREAKS.

Pablo slams Joe's head into the wall.   Leaves a dent.

Does it again, a sickening impact...

Starts to strangle Joe --

And the truth is, Joe's not thirty anymore.

He's not going to make it. The world swims away.

Then, as if through a tunnel, Joe notices something

beside him... something hanging on the wall.

Fights to focus. Breath gone.    Strength gone.

Identifies the object:

CONTINUED:

His Presidential Medal of Valor.

Shiny medal. Shiny ribbon. His name...

It hits him quite suddenly:

The medal has sharp edges.

With the last of his strength, he plucks it from the

wall. Drives it into Pablo's throat.

The big man stumbles backward. Eyes wide. Gurgling.

He thrashes, the red-white-blue ribbon flapping obscenely

from his gushing neck.

Drops to the dusty carpet.    Dies.

Hallenbeck takes a deep breath. Eyes wide. Insane.

He is surrounded by corpses. He takes another deep

breath.

Picks up the sniper rifle.

Slings it over his shoulder.

Heads for the door.

INT. CONRAD MARCON'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Jimmy Dix is on the floor, and Marcon is kicking him

savagely. Pointed alligator boots lashing out. Again

and again.

Jimmy curls up in a fetal ball.    Marcon paces, shaking

his head.

CONTINUED:

He crosses to the fireplace.   Removes a poker.

Marcon raises the poker.

Brings it down on Jimmy's broken arm.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

Hallenbeck leaves the rented Subaru by the side of the

road.

He is dressed in combat black. Government issue.

Rifle over one shoulder. Hunting knife in a hip

scabbard.

Like an angel of death, he moves into the brush.

Heading down the canyon.

EXT. MARCON'S HOME - SAME TIME

An armed sentry patrols the grounds.

Below him, nighttime L.A. stretches to the Pacific.

Joe Hallenbeck emerges like a wraith from the trees.

Clamps a gloved hand over the sentry's mouth.

Drives the hunting knife into his back.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME

Marcon stirs the fireplace logs, stoking the blaze.

Replaces the poker. Crosses to his desk and sits.

Jimmy is on the carpet, delirious.   Out of it.

Marcon presses a button.   An armed HARDGUY appears.

CONTINUED:

The Hardguy crosses the room.      Grips Jimmy by the

shoulders.

With a soft SPIT of sound, his forehead blooms crimson.

He collapses, lifeless.

At his desk, Marcon whirls, stunned, as:

JOE HALLENBECK

steps through the French doors behind him.

He resembles nothing human. A demon in black.

Eyes burning. Gun held loosely. An extension of his

arm.

Marcon reaches for the button to summon help.

He jams the rifle barrel into Marcon's throat, nearly

crushing his larynx. Hisses:

Joe shoves on the gun.   The barrel chokes him.

Grabs a pen.   Shoves it in Marcon's hand.

CONTINUED:

He speaks over his shoulder:

Jimmy stirs.

Marcon finishes writing. Hallenbeck snatches up the

address. Stows it in his pocket.

Too late.    A revolver is cocked a foot from Joe's head.

It's the same odd voice we heard earlier.

The man with the speech impediment.

The Strange Man chuckles.

A pause. Once more, Joe calculates the odds.     No dice.

He places the rifle on the desk.

Hallenbeck turns around... and, for once, his jaw drops.

He's looking at a man he never thought he'd see again. A

man who suffers from facial paralysis ever since his head

bounced off the Georgetown turnpike eight years ago.

LOUIS BAYNARD

Son of the late senator. The right side of his face

doesn't quite match the left. The muscles don't work.

Hallenbeck recovers his composure. As Jimmy climbs to

his feet, Joe walks over and stands next to him. Two

gunmen appear behind them, covering the rear.

Marcon, meanwhile, is positively livid.   He snaps at

Baynard:

CONTINUED:

Jimmy chimes in:

Marcon has had enough.   He pounds his fist on the desk.

CONTINUED:

Behind them, the two hardguys COCK their GUNS.

Jimmy sweats. He's scared shitless underneath.

Hallenbeck clears his throat:

Marcon holds up his hand.

The gunmen lower their weapons.

Marcon stares at him.   Blinks.

Marcon stares him down.    A pause.   Then Marcon smiles:

CONTINUED:

He once again looks Marcon in the eye.

A pause. Then, without warning, Jimmy turns --

And slugs Hallenbeck with his good arm. Decks him.

Hallenbeck stares in disbelief.

The kid's actually trying something.

CONTINUED:

Jimmy reaches inside his jeans. Slowly, cautiously pulls

something out, concealed in his fist.

We see, but Marcon doesn't:

It's a shredder shell. He holds it in his fist.

And, with that, he hurls it into the fire.

So fast that nobody can see just what he threw.

The two hardguys rush to the fireplace.

One of them grabs a pair of tongs --

and the SHREDDER EXPLODES.

Sprays the two hardguys.    Cuts them to ribbons.

Then, several things happen at once:

Everybody goes for a gun.

Hallenbeck lunges, scoops up a fallen pistol --

As Marcon draws his GUN and FIRES, missing --

Joe RETURNS FIRE, BAM-BAM -- !

Catches Marcon in the shoulder, and meanwhile --

CONTINUED:

Baynard draws down on Jimmy, who picks up a flaming log

and hurls it, knocks the SHOT wild, as:

Marcon darts out the French doors, into the night, so

Hallenbeck spins, FIRES at Baynard --

Blows him backward in a bloody spray.    Baynard sags

against the mantel. Collapses, dead.

ECHOES. Silence.   Jimmy and Joe are alone with three

corpses.

Jimmy snatches up a pistol. Joe slings the sniper rifle

over his shoulder. Stares at Jimmy:

EXT. MARCON'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The wooden garage DOORS EXPLODE outward, bursting to

splinters, as a Ford BRONCO DRIVES right THROUGH them,

Conrad Marcon at the wheel. He careens off into the

night. Makes a getaway.

INT. GARAGE - SAME TIME

Jimmy and Joe come racing out of the house, just in time

to see Marcon's taillights disappearing up the canyon.

He crosses to a parked Mercedes. SHOOTS open the door.

Gets in. Pops the ignition package. Hotwires it.

The CAR ROARS to life.

CONTINUED:

He's so slick, it's scary.

EXT. MARCON'S HOUSE - SAME TIME

The Mercedes barrels out through the splintered garage

doors. BURNS RUBBER down the hill.

INT. CAR - DRIVING

They stare straight ahead.   Tense.   Breathless.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

Conrad Marcon, meanwhile, is rocketing along the winding

road, heading up the canyon, when he sees something

ahead:

HIS POV - JOE'S RENTAL SUBARU

sitting abandoned in the roadside brush.

BACK TO SCENE

Acting on a sudden hunch, he SLAMS ON the BRAKES.

Stops the car. Gets out, crosses to the rental. Peeks

in.

A two-million-dollar suitcase sits, pretty as punch, on

the back seat.

He draws his gun. Blows out the glass.

Reaches in. Opens the car door.

Snatches up the briefcase.

EXT. DOWNTOWN HOLLYWOOD - NIGHT

A block of seedy-looking brick buildings.      Off Sunset.

Not many people at this hour.

MERCEDES

slews around the corner races down the street, running

without headlights.

Lurches to a halt near the mouth of an alley.

Jimmy and Joe burst from the car, guns in hand.

Hellenbeck is grim, purposeful. Jimmy is nervous.

He jacks a fresh clip into his rifle.

LOCKPICK

inserted in the latch of a back door.

Hallenback finds the tumblers. Springs the lock in

seconds.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Jimmy and Joe. Side by side. Walking.      Expressionless.

They round a bend in the hall.

SENTRY

seated outside a wooden door. .38 special in a shoulder

rig. Sees them, leaps to his feet, gun clearing

leather --

Joe blows him out of his socks.

TWO-SHOT BURST. Silenced.

Guy hits the wall.   Paints it with blood.     Flops, dead.

Jimmy and Joe step over him.

Joe braces himself. Draws back his foot.       Kicks the

door, as:

INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME

The door flies open.    Doesn't hit the wall.

Something stops it.

Joe doesn't blink. He puts the rifle against the panel.

FIRES three SHOTS through the wood.

Keeps going.

A body falls out from behind the door.

Joe doesn't even look.

The body sits up.    Not dead yet...

Jimmy comes through the door.     SHOOTS him.

Follows Joe.

One more door to go.    Thick.   Soundproofed metal.

It isn't locked.    Joe yanks it open.   Steps inside.

MOVIE SET

Lights.   Camera.   The wrong kind of action.

SARAH

on a bed, naked.

bright lights on her.    Around her, a director.     A

cameraman.

MAN

with a chainsaw.

and he's standing right over her.

Jimmy BLOWS down the two artistes.

Joe takes the actor.

He throws the hunting knife. It pierces the guy's neck.

The chainsaw clatters to the floor.

He does the funny little dance peculiar to those with

pierced necks. Falls. Dies.

And then, mercifully, it's over. Joe crosses to the bed,

puts out an arm, and Sarah collapses against him, shaking

with sobs.

CONTINUED:

He strokes her hair. Speaking softly. Quietly.

Speaking to the only woman he's ever loved:

He cradles his wife in the middle of a slaughterhouse.

EXT. SIDEWALK - NIGHT

Sarah is now dressed, as Joe supports her across the

sidewalk toward the stolen Mercedes.

He turns to Jimmy. Hands him a set of keys.

He moves off into the parking lot.

Hallenbeck says to Sarah.

It's a very tiny "oh."

ESTABLISHING SHOT - JOE'S OFFICE

in the shadow of the freeway. The night wears on.     From

the billboard, Gorgeous continues to entice.

INT. HALLENBECK'S OFFICE - SAME TIME

Darian is asleep, cradled in her mother's arms.

Her mother is awake, cradled in Joe's arms.

Sarah nestles into the crook of his arm.

A pause, then Sarah says:

She turns.   Looks into his eyes.

A pause.   He leans in and kisses her tenderly.

And, with typically swell timing, a set of headlights

rakes across the window, accompanied by the strobing

light of a police flasher.

CONTINUED:

He gets up, throws on a jacket.

EXT. JOE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Joe exits the office, starts across the lawn toward the

vehicle with the flashing light.

Realizes with a sudden shock:   something's wrong.

HALLENBECK'S POV

the insignia on the door panel reads LONG BEACH SHORE

PATROL.

In the same glance, he sees there's a dead cop slumped in

the passenger seat, and worse, much worse than that:

Milo is in the driver's seat.

WIDER ANGLE

Milo, who steps out of the car and promptly OPENS FIRE on

Joe.

He dives for cover, the turf erupting all around him, as:

INT. OFFICE - SAME

Sarah sits bolt upright. Eyes panicked.    Terrified.

Darian comes awake, screaming:

Sarah leaps off the couch, cradling Darian and

meanwhile --

EXT. OFFICE - SAME

Hallenbeck spins behind one of the billboard support

legs, as BULLETS CHOP it to splinters.

MILO

advances.

changing clips.    Methodical.   Precise.

Like a robot.

He is obsessed.    All vestige of sanity gone.

Joe starts to climb. Scales the wooden structure.

Swings himself onto the raised platform.

Flattens behind the billboard.

He sprays a BURST of GUNFIRE up at the billboard.

HALLENBECK

huddles behind the billboard as the bullets stitch

upward. Through the wooden frame.

A hot SLUG RIPS through Joe's arm.

An eruption of blood. He hisses in pain.

Rolls away from the gunfire.

Looks around. Desperate.

Sees a painter's bucket lying nearby.

He counts to three.

DOWN BELOW

Milo calmly changes clips.

Hallenbeck bursts from cover.

Hurls the bucket down at Milo, dashes across the front of

the billboard, hard and fast --

BULLETS CHOPPING the board right behind him, blowing

holes in Gorgeous's derrierre --

And then Joe does a risky thing:

He sprints to the end of the billboard, running full

tilt, and he leaps out into space, what the hell is he

doing?

CONTINUED:

He's trying to make the freeway.

It's a good fifteen feet.   Try it sometime.

He flies through open air --

Milo's GUN CHATTERING below, seeking him out --

And just does make it.

Hits the freeway surface and collapses forward, screaming

as he rolls on his injured arm... Looks up --

EIGHTEEN WHEEL TRUCK

is headed straight for him, bearing down...!

He rolls aside just in time. It THUNDERS past.

Staggers to his feet, frantic --

and Milo is climbing the billboard.

Hallenbeck looks for a place to hide.

There isn't any.

He's going to have to run through traffic.

He shifts from foot to foot, searching for an opening,

and meanwhile --

INT. SUBARU - DRIVING

Jimmy Dix is actually on the freeway, driving, when he

looks across the center divider and sees Hallenbeck.

He swerves over to the side and meanwhile

HALLENBECK

watches in dismay as Milo climbs onto the platform...

Walks across the front of the billboard.

Toward the freeway. Toward Joe. Snarling.

Joe grabs a broken bottle off the ground. Heaves it.

Milo puts up an arm, catches a glancing blow. Blood

flows. All it does is piss him off.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck dives flat to the road as Milo opens up again,

a chattering BURST of GUNFIRE. The muzzle flash is

blinding.

The windshield of a passing car SHATTERS -- The driver

panics, the car spins out of control --

Slews across the road in the middle of traffic.

COLLISIONS. CRUMPLING METAL. EXPLOSIONS of GLASS.

SCREECHING TIRES.

CAR

slides straight toward Hallenbeck.

He dives aside, rolls to his feet --

And he's right in Milo's sights.

My friends, the fat lady just sang.

Except another lady says different:

A single GUNSHOT SPLITS the air.

Milo's chest explodes with bubbling blood.

He shrieks. Turns, staring in disbelief at

SARAH HALLENBECK

below, on the lawn.     She aims Joe's service revolver and

says:

She FIRES again, and Milo reels backward.

Leaves a bloody smudge on the billboard.

She DROPS the HAMMER again and again.     Empties the gun.

Milo jerks and twitches.     Racked by gunfire.

Paints a bloody stripe across the billboard, making

Gorgeous's bloody buns even bloodier --

Clutches himself.     Looks over at Hallenbeck.

Milo pitches forward.     Falls to his death.

HALLENBECK

stares, dumbfounded at Sarah.   She look up at him.

A moment passes between them.

Around Hallenbeck, a sea of crumpled cars. HORNS

BLARING. Amidst it all, he stands. Beaten. Bloody.

Bullet-scarred.

Jimmy winds his way through the cars. Walks up to Joe.

They stand in silence for a moment, then Jimmy says:

EXT. 405 FREEWAY - SOUTHBOUND LANE - NIGHT

Jimmy and Joe stand in the breakdown lane next to the

rented Subaru. Jimmy points to the shattered window.

There is a pause. They both stare at the car.

Two million. Down the drain.

Except, after a beat... they begin to laugh.

First chuckling, then chortling..

Now it's go-for-broke. Jimmy hoots. Joe howls.

Jimmy pulls out a key and opens the trunk --

You can guess what's inside.

AUTOGRAPHED FOOTBALL

on the dresser of a fancy penthouse suite.

Signed by Joe Montana, no less.

CONRAD MARCON

bustles back and forth, shoves the last of his needed

possessions into a travel bag. Hefts it. Puts it near

the door.

CONTINUED:

Crosses to the bed, where the other suitcase lies.

Looks at it. Smiles, contented.

Can't help himself.    He reaches out.    Flicks the latch.

Opens it.

There is a note taped to the inside:

EXT. DOWNTOWN SKYSCRAPER - 32ND FLOOR - NIGHT

Marcon's flaming corpse is BLOWN OUT through the glass,

along with his earthly possessions. He plummets like a

meteor.

EAST L.A. SIDESTREET - NIGHT

Two ten-year-old black boys are walking down the street.

Out strolling in the poverty that exists in the shadow of

the skyscrapers.

Quite suddenly, without warning --

A football drops out of the sky.

Hits and bounces, very high --

Comes down. Settles. Rocks, back and forth.

The kids look up, puzzled.      Searching the sky.

The ball sits there.    Only slightly scorched.

Tentatively, almost like he's afraid of being caught,

one of the boys bends down... looks both ways...

Picks up the ball.    Smiles.

Then, as if by some unspoken agreement --

The other boy starts to run.

Slowly at first, then faster... faster still...

A slant pattern, heading for the mailbox...

And at 12 midnight on December 22nd, the San Pedro Street

quarterback throws an absolutely perfect pass.

Their laughter is joyful.    Innocent.    Fervid.

They will grow up to be sports heroes.

INT. BESSALO'S OFFICE - L.A.P.D. - MORNING

Hallenbeck sits impassively while Bessalo paces, fuming.

Bessalo glares at him.

Hallenbeck smiles.

Bessalo looks at him like he's grown a tail.

ESTABLISHING SHOT - JOE'S OFFICE - UNDER THE FREEWAY

Another blistering hot December day.

Gorgeous looks on from her perch, cheerful as ever,

despite the crusted brown stripe on her ass.

INT. HALLENBECK'S OFFICE - DAY

The suitcase sits on a table. Jimmy and Joe contemplate

it over a bottle of Seagrams V.O.

Hallenbeck nods.

CONTINUED:

Hallenbeck frowns. Opens the case. Reaches in --

And plucks out two crisp $100 bills. Stuffs them in a

pocket. Jimmy stares at him.

He shuts the case.    Shoves it toward Jimmy.

Jimmy leans forward, eyeing the suitcase.

He shoves it back into the center.    Joe nods.

He pours a drink.    Raises his glass on high:

He drinks.

INT. CANCER RESEARCH CENTER - DAY

A uniformed man is emptying the PLEASE GIVE jar when he

notices a suitcase lying against the wall. Under a

poster that says THE GOAL: A CURE IN OUR LIFETIME.

He bends down. Opens the suitcase.

When the money is counted, there will be $1,999,800.

A note is taped to the inside:

EXT. PALM-LINED L.A. STREET - DAY

Jimmy and Joe walk side by side. Away from us. Slightly

drunk. Palms wave lazily. A sweaty Santa rings a bell.

He puts a fatherly arm around Jimmy's shoulder, grins:

