<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

The Man in the Iron Mask - 9/18/95 First Draft by Randall Wallace

FADE IN:

From the BLACKNESS before the first images, we hear a young

woman's tortured SCREAM, muffled by her own will.  We see her

mouth, open in agony; her face, beaded with sweat.  Her name

is ANNE, and she is Queen of France.  She lies in

A ROYAL BEDCHAMBER

The royal DOCTOR kneels at the foot of her bed; her own royal

mother grips her hands...

On the opposite side of the huge bedchamber, and separated

from the queen's bed by an artistically painted screen, are

royal ADVISORS sweating and anxious for any word to take to

their king.  They wince as the Queen moans again in the pain

of childbirth.

Her fingers claw out for help, but her Doctor ignores her

need to be touched and comforted; he is concerned only for

the baby.  Only her PRIEST, FATHER BELLES, sits at her head,

stroking her hair gently and rapidly whispering prayers.

The advisors, disregarding the Queen's privacy, scurry around

the screen to see the doctor lift the beautiful baby, wet

with birth.  The mother -- the Queen -- is still in agony,

yet she struggles to lift her head.

They hurry for the door.  But their race to be first to bring

this great news to the King is interrupted as the Queen emits

another cry; it surprises the doctor.

He kneels again to examine the Queen.

The joy vanishes from the faces of the advisors.  They look

gravely at each other, as they hear a second BABY'S CRY.

A DARK COURTYARD - NIGHT

A door groans open in a hidden corner of the palace courtyard

and into the darkness steps a dashing figure.  His face is

hidden in shadow, but we know from the silhouette of his

cloak and plumed hat that he is a MUSKETEER.

He carries an OBLONG BASKET.

A carriage is just rattling onto the flagstones of the

courtyard.  The Musketeer steps into its interior, with a

sharp word to the driver --

The whip CRACKS and the carriage plunges into the night.

EXT.  ESTABLISHING THE ISLAND FORTRESS PRISON - DAY

On a gash of rock thrusting upward from the sea along the

southern coast of France stands an island fortress, a prison,

like an Alcatraz of the Mediterranean.  Just off a coastline

renowned for its beauty, the fortress is horrible and

foreboding.  As we SUPERIMPOSE:

INT.  THE FORTRESS PRISON

With the camera as our moving POV, we survey the prison.  It

is a horrible place:  dungeons where prisoners lie in their

own filth; corners where jailers rut with unresisting captive

women; long twisting corridors lined with cells, from which

prisoners whimper, or moan in madness.  Up a long winding

staircase our POV moves; we push through the barred window of

a cell... It is somewhat cleaner than the rest of the places

we've seen, but still a prison.  We PAN the cell.

And we see a man.  A MAN IN AN IRON MASK.  It is terrifying,

to think of anyone imprisoned in this way.  We push in on his

eyes... They are blue, childlike.

A greasy jailer -- the prisoner's KEEPER -- puts his face to

the barred window of the door, and speaks with bored cruelty.

EXT.  ESTABLISHING PARIS - DAY

SUPERIMPOSE:

EXT.  PARIS STREET - NIGHT

Through the narrow streets of the old city gallops a dashing

figure, his cloak flying behind him and catching the

moonlight, his horse's hooves clattering along the

cobblestones as he dodges the beggars living in the filthy

shadows.  He is a magnetic sight, riding the horse as easily

as if they were racing across an open field and not through a

cluttered street, and guiding the stallion as if its grace

and power came not from the animal but from the rider.

Sitting lightly in the saddle is

D'ARTAGNAN

famous Musketeer, Captain of the King's Royal Bodyguard.  He

is still handsome at mid-life, still erect, unambiguous in

his courage and his loyalty.

He rides past a knot of angry beggars, moving through the

streets breaking windows and scavenging for food.  When they

see d'Artagnan, some throw rocks at him.  They sail by

d'Artagnan's head; he ducks them with the fluid grace of a

boxer dodging punches, and keeps on riding.

OUTSIDE THE CATHEDRAL

D'Artagnan rides into the courtyard of a grand old residence

beside Notre Dame Cathedral.  Priests are dispensing food to

beggars gathered in the courtyard.  As d'Artagnan reins his

horse to a stop the wretched people stare with contempt at

the royal symbols on his uniform.  But d'Artagnan is not a

man anyone would be quick to confront; as he dismounts and

moves toward the doorways the people part for him.

He pauses as he sees, parked to one side of the old

residence, a big rickety carriage.  D'Artagnan smiles.

D'Artagnan hears drunken feminine giggles echoing down the

staircase of the tower above him.

INT.  PRIESTS' RESIDENCE - A STAIRWAY - DAY

Four people are moving up a winding stairway; three are

women, bosoms spilling from their gaudy dresses; the fourth

is PORTHOS, the former Musketeer, now a nobleman of great

wealth and even greater girth.  He and the women are drinking

wine as they stagger up the stairs, the women towing Porthos

like rowboats tugging a ship to dock.  Porthos is not so

drunk that his hands fail to find pleasant places to grip

their bodies as they walk and giggle.

They reach a doorway.  Porthos kicks it open, staggers back,

and begins shoving the women inside.

INT.  A PRIEST'S APARTMENT - DAY

The first of the partying women tumbles inside; she stops

short at what she sees.  The second and third stumble in

after her and they too stop dead still, sobered by what they

see.  Then with a great roar Porthos barrels in.

He stops dead in his tracks.  From the POV OF PORTHOS AND THE

WOMEN, we see ARAMIS.  Always the most theological of the

Musketeers, and ruthlessly brilliant, he is still lean and

powerful.  And still handsome, or at least he would be; but

now he kneels before a single candle at a private altar,

wearing sackcloth and ashes in penitent prayer.

He whacks their bottoms, herding them out, then swaggers to

Aramis, heaving himself to a seat beside his praying friend.

Aramis is still trying to pray, but rises to the bait.

As if in reply, Porthos lets rip an enormous rolling fart.

Aramis' fingers clamp down on the rosary beads, as he tries

to keep praying.

Aramis abruptly backhands his huge friend.  Porthos reels

backwards, landing in a chair.

Porthos raises a foot and kicks the bishop in the balls.

Aramis staggers back and grabs a chair to throw it; Porthos

picks up the whole table -- just as d'Artagnan enters.

Porthos tosses the table aside and bear hugs d'Artagnan.

Aramis sets the chair down in embarrassment.

Aramis lifts d'Artagnan's cloak as evidence:  near its hem,

sure enough, is the remnant of a broken egg.

D'Artagnan clasps Porthos' hand, then that of Aramis, and

leaves, as Porthos shakes his head.

He hands a purse to Aramis.  Surprised, even touched, Aramis

reaches for it.  Just as he takes the money, Porthos throws a

haymaker; but Aramis sees the sucker punch coming and ducks.

Suddenly the two old warriors are circling again.

INT.  A SMALL HOUSE - DAY

ATHOS stands at the dressing table in a modest room; dressed

in a dark plain coat, he too is a former Musketeer -- gray

haired and handsome, intensely intelligent, with a hard crust

of manners masking seas of emotion.  He opens a small wooden

box and digs through medals of heroism; he finds what he's

looking for just as his son RAOUL enters.  RAOUL is in his

mid-twenties; he wears the uniform of a soldier in the French

Army.  He is nervous, pacing, looking at every angle in the

mirror.

He hands Raoul the simple gold ring he took from the box.

They embrace.  Athos' eyes mist, but he smiles.

ESTABLISHING - THE ROYAL PALACE - DAY

The Palace glows golden in the Parisian sunshine.  Carriages

deposit guests for the lavish party in the royal gardens.

EXT.  THE ROYAL PALACE - GARDENS - DAY

Attractive young adults strut about in the extravagant attire

of Louis XIV's France, the men like peacocks, the ladies in

gowns that seem to squeeze their entire bodies up into their

bosoms.  They laugh and smile and strike courtly poses

pretending to talk with each other -- but all eyes are on the

doorway, through which the king is about to come...

JUST BEYOND THAT PALACE DOORWAY

KING LOUIS the Fourteenth is having his wardrobe adjusted by

a flock of tailors.  He is twenty-two, and would be quite

handsome, except for the total self-absorption.  He's

checking himself in a full length golden mirror as two of his

advisors, PIERRE and CLAUDE, try to speak with him.

As he says this, a replica of the Matterhorn made of fruits

and meringues is carried past the window by a team of chefs.

The tailors and advisors withdraw as Aramis -- still in his

simple priest's robe -- strides forward and bows to the kind.

Aramis bows and Louis turns back to his mirror.  There are

mirrors everywhere in his palace, and he loves his

reflection, adorned as he is all in golden cloth, like fabric

from the sun.  Aramis leaves and the advisors return.

EXT.  PALACE GARDENS - DAY

Among the guests are Raoul and MICHELLE, a stunningly

beautiful young woman.  Michelle is awed by the richness all

around them, while Raoul sees only her.  He holds the ring.

But just as he starts to speak, trumpets blast and the King

steps through the doors and out into the lavish gardens; the

party goers give him a rousing ovation.  Raoul returns the

ring to his jacket, to wait for another moment.

Everyone watches the King, who begins guzzling wine and

telling jokes to his sycophants, who howl at the King's

witticisms.  Then Louis catches sight of Raoul and Michelle,

and lowers his voice, to his FRIENDS...

The king is transfixed.

D'ARTAGNAN

is presiding over a huddle of fresh faced young Musketeers,

directing them to their positions around the gardens, like

secret service agents protecting a president.  He leaves

them, and quickly moves to the King.

The sycophants laugh loudly.

D'Artagnan bows sharply as the young sycophants chuckle.

D'Artagnan retreats, then looks back to Louis and follows his

gaze to the tender young beauty who caught his eye.

D'Artagnan recognizes Raoul, son of his friend Athos.

RAOUL AND MICHELLE

As the guests mix and mingle, Raoul tries again.

A gaunt SERVANT interrupts, presenting a tray of delicacies.

They are interrupted by the SQUEAL of a piglet, squirming in

the hands of the king's dwarf, who holds the fat little

animal above his head and runs among the startled guests.

He takes the pig from his dwarf; the pig is clean and

perfumed, a colorful fake horn tied onto its head.

With this announcement the King produces a diamond the size

of a pecan, suspended from a ribbon; the guests gasp at its

richness.  The King ties the diamond around the pig's neck.

RAOUL AND MICHELLE

Michelle is amazed at this.

It almost makes Raoul ashamed of the modest ring hidden in

his hand.

The dwarf releases the pig, poking him through a tiny break

in the hedge; the critter skitters as only a pig can, eluding

the first laughing lunges of the guests.

THE PIG CHASE is a merry melee, as the maze becomes a tangle

of confusion.  LOUIS climbs to a platform above the top of

the ten foot hedge that forms the maze.  From his perch he

looks down on all the action, and calls encouragement.

MICHELLE squeals as the pig scurries by and Raoul dives for

it.  He almost has the pig... then it kicks free.

With that he races after the pig.

MICHELLE tries to follow, this way, that way, through the

maze.  Then she stops, face to face with the King, entering

through a gate hidden in one of the maze's dead corners.

Speechless, she nods.

Her eyes go still; she understands what is happening.

FROM BEHIND THE GATE, we see d'Artagnan, watching as Louis

tries to seduce the young woman.  Even as d'Artagnan watches,

the pig comes rooting through the hedge; with a deft movement

d'Artagnan catches the animal's leg and lifts it with the

sureness of the farm boy he once was.  The pig is quiet and

comfortable in d'Artagnan's hands.

D'Artagnan watches as the King approaches Michelle, and she

allows him to touch her cheek.  The king leans to kiss her...

Michelle does not move...

WHHEEEKKKK!  The pig sails over the gate and hits the ground

running, right at Louis' feet; it sets him dancing.

The spell of the king's royal attention is shattered; as the

pig scrambles away, Michelle backs away.

Too late, he sees the shadow of the man looming above him,

leaping down onto him from the observation platform.  It is

the servant who offered the tray to Raoul and Michelle; he

has armed himself with a knife from the carving table, and is

diving now to plunge the blade into the king's throat.

The king is helpless, frozen.  The assassin leaps, falling

toward the king... and is impaled on the sword of d'Artagnan,

springing through the gate to save his king.

Michelle screams, the king gasps, and the assassin drops,

mortally wounded.  They stare down at him now; the would-be

assassin gurgles words through his agony...

Party guests, having heard Michelle scream, are running in to

find them.  Michelle rushes off, to find Raoul; several

people are coming up.

The king snatches out his own dagger and imperiously cuts the

throat of the dying man, to stop these offensive words.  The

king looks at his stunned subjects.

The King prances away.  It takes the guests a moment, but

they know that only gaiety will please their King, and off

they go again, laughing as if nothing happened.

D'Artagnan stands still as the young Musketeers under his

command come rushing up with swords drawn.

Seeing the dead assassin, their eyes fill with admiration.

D'Artagnan can't even listen; with a last glance at the King

he turns quickly and walks away.

INT.  FORTRESS PRISON

The Man in the Iron Mask sits on the floor.  A key rattles in

the lock and his keeper shuffles in, carrying food.

Not watching what he's doing, the bulbous keeper trips on

something and stumbles, dropping the food.  The prisoner

jumps to his feet, concerned.

He picks up the tray and slings it at the prisoner.

The keeper looks for what he tripped on -- a worn Bible.  He

snatches it up and grabs a hunk of pages from its middle.

Hearing the pleading in the prisoner's voice, the keeper

looks squarely at him -- and rips out the pages.

As the prisoner rattles off the names of Biblical genealogy,

the jailer gawks at the pages in his hand.

As the keeper is speechless, the prisoner looks for himself.

The Keeper staggers in shock; the prisoner bubbles with joy.

And the prisoner takes the keeper's fat hands in his own and

begins to dance and sing.

The keeper's left arm goes rigid, and he clutches his chest

with his right hand; he drops upon the stone floor.

The prisoner approaches the jailer; the man is stoned dead.

The prisoner tries to wipe his eyes, but he can't get at

them, inside the mask.  He edges to the open door.

He slumps down beside the open door, and weeps.

INT.  PALACE - D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - EVENING

D'Artagnan's room is spartan:  a cot, and weapons laid on a

plain table.  It has a single small window, and d'Artagnan

stands at it now, looking out into the Palace garden below.

The guests have all gone home; the party pavilions have been

cleared away.  And now in the blue dusk, a solitary lady

walks.  She is Anne of Austria, the Queen Mother, the lady we

saw in the opening.

Now, twenty years later, she is a slim frail figure.  Her

clothes are drab and simple, like the dress of mourning; she

walks in silence, watched at a distance by nun attendants.

She glances up, and sees d'Artagnan's form in the window.

When he sees her looking, he pulls away from the window.

INT.  PALACE CORRIDOR - EVENING

D'Artagnan's room is along the same corridor as the Royal

Apartments.  D'Artagnan sits at the small table, going over

paperwork.  Through his open door he sees that Anne and her

attendants are filing along in the corridor, and he rivets

his eyes back to his work.

IN THE CORRIDOR

Anne reaches the door to her apartment, and looks back to

where d'Artagnan's door is open.

INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM

The Queen Mother's ATTENDANT appears at d'Artagnan's door.

INT.  THE CORRIDOR

D'Artagnan approaches the Queen Mother, and bows.

Without a change of expression on her still beautiful but sad

face, she enters her room.

INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - EVENING

D'Artagnan returns to his room, just as a young LIEUTENANT of

Musketeers (Andre) arrives with two of the Royal Guards.

They hand him the list and salute again, to leave.

The young Musketeers try not to smirk.

INT.  ATHOS' APARTMENT - NIGHT

Athos sits alone, playing a haunting melody on a violin.  It

is a sad tune, played with feeling; he stops as he hears a

KNOCK at his door, and opens it to --

They embrace with deep affection -- friends who have shared

each other's darkest times.

D'Artagnan takes one of the wooden chairs, by the meager

fire.  The whole place is modest at best.

A cloud passes d'Artagnan's face; he has something to tell

Athos.

But whatever it is that d'Artagnan wants to say is

interrupted by the sound of someone climbing the stairs.  As

Athos' face brightened with the arrival of d'Artagnan, now it

glows as he jumps up to welcome his son.

Athos is stunned; d'Artagnan witnesses this with agony.

But Raoul stops him, with an embrace.

Raoul breaks away, and runs from the room.  Athos, so joyful

moments before, holds his head as if his brain might erupt.

D'Artagnan is silent, and even ashamed.  Athos realizes --

Athos grips d'Artagnan in gratitude and desperate hope.

They embrace once more, and d'Artagnan leaves.

EXT.  PARIS STREETS - DAY

Magnificent public buildings -- palaces and cathedrals --

grace the city's skyline, but here in central Paris all is

squalor.  On a narrow, filthy street, beggars bother the

sullen city peasants who are weak with hunger themselves.

But interest perks up when two soldiers drive up in a wagon,

and one of them, Lieutenant Andre, announces --

Slowly at first the paupers stand and shuffle forward.  As

the soldiers begin handing out foodstuffs -- bread, cabbages,

tomatoes, eggs -- those nearest the wagon begin to jostle

each other, and a large crowd gathers quickly.

It's looking like a holiday celebration... until a RUFFIAN

breaks open a loaf of bread, and wrinkles his nose.

He hurls the moldy bread back at the soldiers.  Other paupers

sniff the food, and its stink set off an explosion of anger:

they throw food at the soldiers... Then a paving stone

crashes through a shop window, and suddenly it's a riot, with

the mob overwhelming the soldiers and dragging them down the

streets in the direction of the palace.

D'ARTAGNAN, riding toward the palace himself, turns a corner

and sees the mob coming.  And they see him:  the elegant,

dashing Musketeer on the prancing stallion.

And at that moment, two more soldiers race out of a side

street, fleeing a similar mob, coming from another direction.

D'Artagnan understands everything at a glance; the second

pair of fleeing soldiers reach him in panic.

The two new soldiers race away; d'Artagnan waits calmly on

his horse, as the mobs from both directions converge on him.

THE MOB, seeing the dashing Musketeer wait so confidently for

them, slow up; but the ruffian urges them on.

D'Artagnan sits calmly in their way.  He doesn't even draw

his sword, though members of the mob grab the reins of his

horse.  Some of the mob recognize him, and murmur...

The mob hesitates -- for the name d'Artagnan means heroism

and patriotism to all of them.

With that he draws a dagger from his filthy shirt and puts it

to the ear of the young Lieutenant who is already bloody from

being dragged through the street.

With that one of the rioters hurls a moldy beet at

d'Artagnan, who draws his sword in a slick liquid movement,

he cuts the vegetable from the air.

The display of expertise is startling.  Someone else throws a

head of lettuce; d'Artagnan slices it in half, and as the

pieces fly he skewers one with the point of his sword.

The mob laughs at this panache, and the amazing display of

swordsmanship that lies behind it.  Someone tosses more

lettuce, and d'Artagnan divides and skewers this one as well.

This time the crowd applauds.

Can he do it?  Someone fires a tomato right at his head, and

sure enough d'Artagnan spears it.  Then, with a victorious

flourish, he takes a bite of it.  His face contorts with the

taste, and he spits the pieces out; the crowd is hushed.

The mob is completely won over by d'Artagnan; the ruffian,

angry that his riot is fizzling, raises his knife again over

the soldiers, but now the point of d'Artagnan's sword flicks

to the ruffian's neck.

The soldiers who moments before were about to be ripped apart

now stand and look at d'Artagnan in gratitude and awe.  The

mob has forgotten them; they see only d'Artagnan as he rakes

his blade clean, returns it to its scabbard, reins his horse

around, and slowly rides away, escorting the soldiers back

toward the palace.

INT.  PALACE - NIGHT

D'Artagnan strides into the long hallway leading to the royal

apartments.  As he reaches the door to the king's rooms, he

finds a knot of royal advisors -- among them Pierre and

Claude -- gathered outside the king's door.

Blocked by the advisors, d'Artagnan leaves them, turning down

one hallway, and then another; he reaches the Hall of Mirrors

and touches the golden frame of one mirror at its corner; the

mirror becomes a door, revealing a secret passage within the

walls.  D'Artagnan steps through and the portal closes again,

leaving no trace of its existence.

INT.  PALACE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Within a bed whose tapestried posts stretch to the sixteen

foot ceiling, the king is making love; the YOUNG WOMAN lying

beneath him is doing her best to sound sincere.

Louis climaxes with a grunt.  She tries to sound pleased.

He hops up, throwing on a silk robe embroidered in gold.

He moves to what appears to be a wardrobe, standing against

the far wall, and opens its door, revealing a secret

staircase hidden within the thick walls of the palace.

Leaving the girl without another word, he moves down the

concealed stairs.

INT.  THE KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

Louis reaches the bottom of the stairs, disguised behind a

similar wardrobe in his own bedroom.  He steps out -- and is

startled as the lifesize portrait of Louis XIII on the other

side of the room opens to admit d'Artagnan.

The King begins to eat from the food laid out on the table.

The King pokes at his food.

D'Artagnan bows, steps to the lifesize portrait of Louis

XIII, touches a hidden button on its frame and moves into the

secret passage the painting reveals as it swings open.

CLOSE ON PIERRE'S FACE...

He is sweating, exceptionally pale, as he tries to project

his voice past a huge lump in his throat...

He steps back, having accomplished something terrifically

difficult, and glances toward

THE KING

who steps to his advisor and shakes his hand, whispering

quietly...

Pierre can only nod... He takes two steps, kneels, crosses

himself, and places his head between two upright rails of

THE GUILLOTINE

The King, Pierre, and other attendants are standing on a

platform before a crowd of Parisians.  The blade drops,

Pierre's head hits the basket, the crowd cheers.

The King raises his hands to quiet the crowd.

He shoots a glance at his advisors, and they are pale from

the display they've just witnessed.

The advisors all applaud furiously, but from the crowd there

is almost no reaction at all; the triple ranks of soldiers

surrounding the square discourage any protest, and as the

King leaves the platform the crowd begins to melt away.

NEAR THE PLATFORM

Aramis, watching the crowd disperse, hears behind him --

Aramis turns to see the King, who moves up alone.

The King moves away, followed by his fawning advisors.

INT.  THE FAVORITE MISTRESS' PALACE ROOMS - DAY

A young Musketeer ushers Michelle into the palace bedroom

previously occupied by the King's last mistress.  The

Musketeer leaves her alone, frozen in the center of the room,

awed by the opulence.  Her eyes play over the details:

-- The handcarved, richly upholstered furniture, beneath her

-- The carved figures of cherubic angels, gleaming with gold,

-- The murals on the walls and ceiling...

Her reverie is interrupted by a HANDMAIDEN who bustles in

carrying a magnificent dress.

She tosses the dress onto the bed and is gone.  Left alone,

Michelle lifts the letter, and recognizes the writing.

She opens the letter and reads quickly.

She interrupts herself as her eyes fall on the gorgeous

dress.  She looks around at the sumptuous palace apartment,

and gazes again at the murals painted above the bed.

They depict naked gods and goddesses, in Olympian orgies.

CLOSE - STEAMING WATER, POURED INTO A TUB

The Handmaiden has prepared a 17th Century bathtub for

Michelle, and now retires.

As the handmaiden leaves, exiting frame, we PUSH IN on one of

the murals on the wall.  The eye of one of the figures there

is no longer the painted eye it was before, but is a real

human eye, disguised by the mural...

THE KING, IN THE SECRET PASSAGEWAY

is spying on Michelle.

THE KING'S POV

as Michelle undresses and steps into the bath.  Louis catches

tantalizing glimpses of her richly sensual body in the soapy

water, and it stokes his desire.

INT.  PALACE - MICHELLE'S NEW ROOM - DAY

Michelle stands before the mirror, staring at herself,

breaktakingly gorgeous in her new dress.  She stares for a

long time, surprised at her own beauty.

She reaches to a vase of roses and pulls one out, blotting it

around her neck, perfuming herself with its fragrance.  She

looks into the mirror, at her eyes... In guilt for what she

is already feeling, she lifts Raoul's letter to read it

again.  Then she gasps -- the King stands right before her.

He takes the letter; she has no resistance against him.  The

King reads, his eyes hardening suddenly; but then he smiles.

Tossing the letter aside, he offers her his arm.  She takes

it and allows him to escort her from the room.

INT.  PALACE - THE HALL OF MIRRORS

The hall is alive with glorious light, fiery gold frames

surrounding silvery mirrors blazing with reflections.

Musicians line the length of the hall, and when Louis and

Michelle appear at the far doorway they begin playing for the

couple as they parade past.  Michelle is speechless, as Louis

smiles at her awed innocence.

INT.  ROYAL DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Louis leads Michelle into a towering room surrounding a

magnificent table, decked out with candelabra and sumptuous

delicacies -- set for just two.

THE DINNER

Louis and Michelle sit opposite each other, attended by a

dozen servants.  Michelle stares at her plate.

She rushes to him and throws herself at his knees, weeping in

gratitude.  Louis smiles, as if embarrassed.

A servant quickly approaches with wine; the goblet at

Michelle's place is quite large, and he pours it full.

INT.  MICHELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Louis leads Michelle back to her room; she's a bit unsteady

from the wine; but she grows alert as she notices him closing

the door behind her.  He stares into her eyes.

He touches his lips to her throat.  She gasps, but then pulls

away.  She glances at the letter on the writing table.

He sees her hesitation and uncertainty.  He's smooth, gentle.

He kisses her; for a moment she seems frozen... and then she

yields.  Never having doubted that she would.  Louis pulls

the gown from her shoulders.  She doesn't resist.

INT.  THE FORTRESS PRISON

The old Jailer, carrying a torch that barely pushes back the

darkness, leads another guard up the winding stairs.

INT.  CELL OF THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK

The Man in the Iron Mask lifts his head as a key rattles into

his door.  The door opens, admitting his old Jailer, and a

NEW KEEPER.  The New Keeper is just a younger version of the

old one -- greasy, fat, and cruel.

The Man in the Iron Mask rises and takes a step forward; the

new keeper recoils and raises his club threateningly.

The New Keeper steps forward and clubs the Man in the Iron

Mask in the shoulder, then kicks him as he falls.

The New Keeper strides out.  The Man in the Iron Mask pulls

himself to his knees; his eyes, visible through the slits of

the mask, look sadly at the old Jailer.

The jailer leaves the cell, locking the door behind him.

INT.  A BATTLEFIELD COMMAND TENT

Raoul has just received orders from General Fromberge, who

sits at a map table, Raoul salutes and follows a young staff

officer from the tent.  As Raoul leaves, the General

withdraws from his leather field pouch a royal letter --

parchment, with blue and gold seals.  Fromberge touches the

edge of the parchment to the candle, and burns the letter...

EXT.  TRENCH - DARKNESS

Two men move along a deep trench, the siege works of 17th

century siege warfare.  One of the men is Raoul, carrying a

musket; in his new uniform he looks out of place among the

dirty, battle weary men they pass.  He is following the STAFF

OFFICER who is no older than himself, but whose eyes are

already dead, while Raoul's are wide and wild.

The trench is deep as a grave; by crouching, both men keep

their heads below the surrounding ground.  Thick smoke rolls

over their heads; we can't tell if it is day or night.  From

all around come sounds of battle, with the sporadic fire of

muskets and the rumble of cannons; officers shout orders in

the distance; wounded men nearby whimper for water and the

officer leads Raoul by them as if they did not exist.

The young Staff Officer stops at a bend in the trench.

Without another word he goes back the way he came.  Raoul

grips his musket and looks around him; he finds himself among

several dozen stark eyed men manning the forward curve of the

trench.  He has little time to wonder what will happen next.

A horn trumpets close by, and with a shout, the French

soldiers clamber out of their breastworks.

For an instant, Raoul hesitates in pure terror, then joins

the charge with a shout of his own --

On the stone wall looming above the French soldiers, orange

blossoms of fire -- the muzzle flash of primitive cannons --

penetrate the smoke, and the ground at Raoul's feet explodes,

hurling him backwards.  He covered barely a few feet, and

falls almost exactly where he started.

Dead.

CLOSE - THE DOOR OF ATHOS' ROOMS - DAY

A gloved hand raps on the door.  Athos opens it to a military

messenger, who shoves at him a single sheet of paper, rolled

and tied with ribbon.

INT.  ATHOS' ROOM - NIGHT

The message slams onto the table as Athos staggers upon it,

his legs buckling beneath him in shock and grief.

INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - DAY

D'Artagnan is working at his desk, as the Lieutenant enters.

D'Artagnan looks at the paper the Lieutenant hands him.

He sags for a moment, then grabs his cloak and sword.

INT./ EXT.  MUSKETEER'S GATE OF THE PALACE - DAY

The Musketeer's Gate is close to the stables where the

Musketeers train and keep their horses.  D'Artagnan hurries

from the Palace and snaps an order.

The grooms jump to work; several young Musketeers nearby stop

their training, noticing their Captain's agitation.

But then d'Artagnan sees Athos coming, riding furiously

through the Musketeers' gate.  D'Artagnan steps out to meet

him as Athos reins in his horse and jumps from the saddle.

Athos marches to the palace door; d'Artagnan cuts him off.

Athos punches d'Artagnan with furious strength, knocking him

aside.  The young Musketeers reach for their weapons, but

d'Artagnan is up quickly, throwing himself in front of Athos

again, blocking the doorway into the palace.

At this, the swords of the young Musketeers sing from their

scabbards.  Athos wears a sword, but he has not drawn it.

A YOUNG MUSKETEER steps up.

Athos spins, striking like a rattlesnake, his sword whipping

from its scabbard and slicing off the arrogant young

Musketeer's ear.  He flicks another's sword from his grasp,

then brings the the point of his own blade up beneath the

chin of a third, shoving him back.

D'Artagnan tackles Athos from behind and pins him face down

to the hay.  For a moment Athos bellows in rage --

Emotion spills up into Athos' throat, and he begins to sob.

D'Artagnan, dying inside, still grips Athos.  Athos grows

quiet, and the young Musketeers drift closer.

D'Artagnan stands, and Athos rises, still holding his sword.

He looks at d'Artagnan a long beat, then sheathes his sword

and turns to his horse.  The young soldiers move to him.

Athos mounts his horse, and with a last glance back at

d'Artagnan, he gallops away.

INT.  KING'S BEDCHAMBER - DAY

The King has just climaxed in his lovemaking, and lies spent

upon Michelle.  His rest is interrupted by a KNOCK at his

door.  The King scowls.

Louis groans, and pulls on a robe.  Michelle whispers --

Michelle rises and slips behind a painted dressing screen as

Louis goes to the door and admits the young Lieutenant.

BEHIND THE SCREEN, Michelle lifts a jeweled hand mirror and

appraises her face; she begins brushing her long hair.  She

can hear the conversation...

Behind the screen, Michelle pauses at the mention of Athos.

CRASH!  From behind the screen comes the sound of the mirror,

shattering as it drops to the floor.  It startles the

Lieutenant, but the King goes on...

The Lieutenant moves back to the door.

The Lieutenant leaves, and Louis moves behind the screen to

see Michelle stagger and grip the dressing table; her bare

feet step onto the broken glass of the mirror, yet she is

oblivious to the cuts.  Louis sees this and grabs her.

He pulls her to the couch and draws a blanket about her,

cuddling her as she begins to shake.

He cuddles her as she weeps.

She clings to him in her grief.

EXT.  NOTRE DAME CATHEDRAL - DAY

The great cathedral rises next to the monastery where Aramis

resides.  We PAN DOWN and PUSH IN on the cobblestones between

the two structures, as if penetrating to --

SUBTERRANEAN PASSAGES

Aramis leads Porthos through tunnels, twisting, descending.

They reach an iron door and move through it, into

A GORGEOUS, SECRET CHAPEL

Candles illuminate masterpiece frescoes.  The place is

breathtaking.

Porthos notices niches in the walls; he looks closely and

sees the face of a corpse, enclosed behind glass.

Porthos looks as if the bodies could resurrect at any moment

-- then jumps out of his skin as the door opens.

A hooded figure, looking like the Grim Reaper, enters.

And sure enough the hooded figure, whom we now see has been

led in by a little monk, is d'Artagnan.  Aramis nods to the

monk, who leaves quickly.  Before d'Artagnan can ask

anything, Porthos jumps again; the back door has opened, and

monks usher in Athos, who freezes as he sees d'Artagnan.

The escort monks disappear, closing the chapel door so that

the four Musketeers are left to sit at a small table the

monks have set up, Athos and D'Artagnan opposite each other.

A stunned silence.

Athos leaps up from the table, and glares at d'Artagnan.

He storms out of the rear door of the chapel.

Porthos follows Athos; Aramis and d'Artagnan are left alone.

D'Artagnan moves to the door.

D'Artagnan leaves Aramis alone in the secret chapel.

EXT.  THE MONASTERY - NIGHT

Aramis leads Athos and Porthos out of the catacombs.

They move into a moonlit courtyard of the monastery.  A

hooded Jesuit standing guard steps from the shadows, then

recognizes Aramis and admits the trio to the monastery's

forge, where more hooded Jesuits are working in secret,

heating iron red hot in the bellows furnace.

One of the blacksmiths uses tongs to remove something red

from the fire; he hammers it in a shower of sparks and

plunges it into water.  Aramis pulls the result from the

water and shows it to Athos and Porthos.

It is an iron mask.

EXT.  A CARRIAGE - FRENCH COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

The carriage rolls through the long sweep of the French

countryside, traveling fast.

INT.  THE CARRIAGE - NIGHT

The three Musketeers -- Aramis, Athos, and Porthos -- have

been traveling for some time.  Porthos is asleep, snoring.

Kicking Porthos' feet to wake him, Aramis opens the carriage

door, and they step out...

EXT.  FRENCH COAST - NIGHT

Lying just off the coast is the forbidden island, where the

imposing fortress prison rises on the promontory off shore.

As hooded Jesuits appear from the shadows to guide them,

Athos and Porthos glance at each other; Porthos shrugs.

EXT.  AMONG ROCKS AT THE BEACH - NIGHT

The guides lead the Musketeers down a hilly path to a long

boat, hidden among the large rocks that dot the coast.

Sitting next to the boat is a scrawny little man in priest's

garb; at his feet is a long narrow bundle, about the size of

a mummy, with a rope tied at either end.

The guides drag the boat across the sand into the surf.

Aramis throws off his cape, and strips down almost naked.

He's still fit and hard.  With the guides helping him, he

lifts the bundle by its ropes and ties it around his waist.

Aramis ignores the question, and the guides dress him in

priest's garb.  With the robes spreading over the big bundle

added artfully to Aramis' waist, it appears he is a very fat

priest; the wig and false beard the assistants give him adds

to the illusion of Aramis as a wild, reclusive monk.

The sun is beginning to come up over the mountains.

Aramis steps onto the boat.  The little priest who first

joined them gets in too, along with a couple of rowers.

The rowers pull the boat toward the fortress prison.

INT.  FORTRESS PRISON - DAY

The pink light of the new day barely penetrates the gloom of

the prison.  The boat carrying Aramis and the little priest

reaches the gate of the prison, which reaches to the water

line.  As Aramis steps out, GUARDS meet them.

The little priest remains in the boat, slumped over.  One

GUARD speaks to the little priest in Italian, and the little

priest seems barely able to left his head; Aramis answers for

him, in Italian, and the guard translates --

Aramis rattles off more Italian.

The head guard gestures to let them pass.

INT.  CELL OF THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK

The prisoner has used the torn Bible to make all sorts of

amazing origami, invented from his own head.  He looks up as

he hears the door open, and sees Aramis, the priest.

Aramis says something in Latin -- the first words of the

ceremony of absolution -- as the guards lock the door behind

him and move off down the corridor.

Aramis goes on mumbling Latin mechanically, for the sake of

the retreating guards.  The Man in the Iron Mask is desperate

for someone to talk to.

Aramis has stopped talking, and stares transfixed at this

sight of the prisoner, in the iron mask.

Aramis puts his finger to his lips.

Aramis clamps his hand over the mouth hole, and whispers --

Aramis hurriedly removes his robes, revealing the bundle.

He says it as if the concept is beyond him.  Aramis undoes

the bundle, revealing the limp body.

Aramis uncovers the head of the body.  It is covered in a

mask, identical to the prisoner's.

INT.  PRISON CORRIDOR - CELL

The Guards are sharing a bottle of wine, when they hear --

INT.  CELL

The guards enter to find the Man in the Iron Mask slumped on

the floor.  Aramis, looking like the fat priest again, stands

over him spouting Italian, as one GUARD translates --

Aramis rattles off more Italian, and suddenly the guard who

understands it stops examining the body and backs off.

Aramis rattles off a protest in Italian.

EXT.  PRISON - DAY

Aramis climbs into the boat; as he sits down his belly stirs,

but the guards don't see it -- they are using poles to push

the boat away, into the sea.

EXT.  THE COASTLINE - DAY

Athos and Porthos stand as the boat reaches the shore, and

tucks in among the rocks.  Sheltered from the view from the

prison, Aramis steps from the boat and removes his robes.

The prisoner dangles, tied wrist and ankle, from around

Aramis' neck.

Athos, Porthos, and the others gawk at the sight of the Man

in the Iron Mask, as Aramis loosens the ropes.  As they back

away from him, he sees the sky.  Endless blue -- and bright.

He shields his eyes.

Aramis helps him up, and turn him slowly around, to face...

The fortress/prison, in the distance.

THE PRISONER'S POV FROM WITHIN THE MASK:  A vast vista -- the

sky, the sea, and the prison on the island in the middle of

it all.  The prisoner falls to his knees, and weeps.

Athos moves over hesitantly, and puts his hand on the

shoulder of the Man in the Iron Mask, who holds his hands

against the mask as if to further hide his shame.

INT.  THE PRISON - DAY

The guards are standing in the cell, looking down at the body

now wearing the mask, the man they think was their prisoner.

The guards are quiet, alone.

They wrap the body, still in its mask, in a weighted sack.

EXT.  PRISON - DAY

The prison's WARDEN GENERAL stands at the wall of the

fortress high above the sea and watches as his guards throw

off the body, wrapped in canvas weighted with stones.  As the

corpse makes a long fall and crashes into the sea, the Warden

writes a message on a royal scroll:

The Warden seals the scroll and hands it to a messenger.

EXT.  COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT

A carriage pulls into a country estate, isolated among vast

woodlands silver in the moonlight.  Mysterious servants with

shielded lanterns converge on the carriage as it stops.

INT.  CARRIAGE - NIGHT

Athos reaches for his sword, but Aramis stops his hand.

EXT.  MANOR HOUSE COURTYARD - NIGHT

Aramis emerges quickly, whispering directives to the Jesuits;

Athos helps the Man in the Iron Mask from the carriage, his

head shrouded by a cloak.

Aramis has a blacksmith waiting; almost before he realizes it

the Man in the Iron Mask finds his head placed on an anvil;

but as the hammer rises he begins to scream.

But the prisoner is shaking, and Athos understands why.

Athos, angry with Aramis' arrogance and insensitivity, leads

the Man in the Iron Mask toward the house; then Aramis spots

Porthos, looking downcast.

In deep depression, Porthos climbs out and shuffles off.

Aramis sighs, shakes his head, and walks to the house.

INT.  MANOR HOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Athos helps the Man in the Iron Mask onto the bed; the eyes

behind the slits in the mask are darting, frightened.

Athos pours a cupful from the water pitcher on the bed table;

but when he tries to help the prisoner drink the liquid

spills as the cup bumps the mouth hole.

The prisoner manipulates the cup in the way he must to get a

drink, then falls back to the pillow.

Athos moves to the door.

Athos nods, pauses a moment... and leaves.

INT.  A DARK APARTMENT IN PARIS - NIGHT

The lock rattles, and the door swings open.  D'Artagnan

enters, lifting a lantern to throw light on the dark room.

It is Athos' apartment, the one he visited earlier; now he

finds it empty, devoid of clues.  He stands there alone.

He turns to leave, then glimpses a familiar painting hanging

beside the door.  Lifting his light he studies the portrait:

Athos, Aramis, Porthos and himself -- four Musketeers, beat

friends, in their prime.  Together then, inseparable.

He lowers the lantern, and leaves.

THE MESSAGE FROM THE PRISON...

has reached the court.  Gloved hands pass the message from

one advisor to another, and finally to the King.

INT.  PALACE - KING'S STUDY - DAY

The King reads the message, rerolls it, thinks a moment, and

hands the scroll to Claude.

THE MESSAGE

is again passed, this time into the hands of the Queen

Mother's eldest nun-attendant, and then into the hands of the

Queen Mother herself.  The Queen is in her private rooms, and

for the first time we see her with her hair down.  She

accepts the scroll, opens it, and reads.

Her eyes fill with pain, grief, guilt... emotions she hides,

turning away.

INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - NIGHT

D'Artagnan returns from his ride to Athos' place.  He looks

down at the Queen's door.  He checks the clock on the wall;

it is a few minutes past nine.  He enters his room, moves to

the window, and waits there, to catch a glimpse of her.

INT.  COUNTRY MANOR HOUSE - FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

Aramis is digging into a hearty meal, while Porthos only

stares at his plate.

Athos marches in, all business.

He breaks off as a voluptuous serving girl leans over to

spoon food onto Porthos' plate; her breasts jiggle below his

nose, and she gives him a smile.

The girl moves to whisper with two other serving girls, who

seem fascinated with the roguish Porthos; their giggles and

winks make Porthos even more morose; he tells his friends...

Porthos heaves himself to his feet and shuffles off; Aramis

sighs, having heard all this before.  Athos sits down.

They are interrupted by Porthos' bloodcurdling SCREAM.

He draws his sword and runs for the outside.

EXT.  MANOR HOUSE - NIGHT

Aramis and Athos rush through the courtyard, surrounded by

moonlight and trees, confused about where Porthos is.  Then

they hear bellowing SCREAM OF PAIN from the latrine.

Swords drawn, they bang into the latrine, to find Porthos

just finishing urinating.

They watch him shuffle toward the main house.

INT.  THE PALACE - THE QUEEN MOTHER'S ROOM - NIGHT

Anne paces in her room, her hands trembling, her beautiful

lips quivering with tortured emotion.  With a sudden impulse

she bolts from her room, through the outer room where her

attendants sit, and into the corridor.

The eldest nun follows her.

EXT.  PALACE GARDEN - NIGHT

Anne rushes through the evening, toward her little chapel in

the palace garden; she is a tragic, romantic sight, her long

hair flying behind her as she runs.

IN HIS ROOM, D'ARTAGNAN

has been standing at his window, for his nightly glimpse of

Anne.  Now he sees her, not with her retinue of nuns, but

running to her chapel, clearly distraught...

INT./ EXT.  PALACE GARDEN - GARDEN CHAPEL - NIGHT

Anne reaches the door, and finds a few nuns and an old priest

praying in the little chapel.  She staggers forward to the

altar.  and falls to her knees there.  The nuns and the old

priest, seeing the Queen Mother so distraught, stand silently

and file out, leaving her in solitude.

She whirls to see him; the sight of her face, bursting with

emotions she has kept buried, draws him nearer.

He freezes in his tracks; she holds her hands out toward him

as if warding off a blow.  He's desperate to move to her; she

sees it on his face.

Her emotions break all her resolve to keep him away; she

rushes into his arms.  They clutch each other, in an embrace

they have denied for many years.  They kiss hungrily.

She draws back; he tries to hold her.  But the thoughts of

answering that question makes her stiffen.

And just like that, their moment is gone.

EXT.  GARDEN - NIGHT

D'Artagnan and Anne move back to the palace in a stiff

procession, she walking ahead, he trailing like a proper

commoner, several feet behind.

INT.  PALACE CORRIDOR - NIGHT

They reach the Queen Mother's room; d'Artagnan reaches to

open the door for her, and she keeps her eyes lowered.  But

before he can let her go, he must whisper...

With those whispered words hanging in the air, she enters her

room.  And d'Artagnan moves alone, back to his.

INT.  MICHELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The King is trying to make love with Michelle -- but she

isn't responding.  He stops, exasperated.

She says nothing.  He tries kissing her again.

She begins weeping uncontrollably, and turns from him.

The King stands; he's had enough of this.

He snatches the gold coverlet from her bed to cover his naked

body and stalks to his stairway; the embroidered coverlet

trails behind him like a regal train in a royal procession.

Leaving her weeping, he moves down into...

INT.  THE KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

The King angrily stalks around his bedroom, too agitated to

sleep.  He grabs food from the table by the window, and

starts to pop a grape into his mouth when he stops.  He sees

something out the window; it stops him dead cold.

It is a man, standing in the gardens, wearing an iron mask.

EXT.  GARDENS - OUTSIDE THE KING'S WINDOW - NIGHT

The apparition ducks into the shadows.

INT.  PALACE - D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM - NIGHT

D'Artagnan is sitting on his cot thinking of all that has

just happened when he hears the king's shouts of alarm.

In an instant d'Artagnan is reacting, snatching up his sword

and racing out into the corridor, toward the King's room.

INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The guards outside the King's room find the door latched from

within, and they don't know what to do... D'Artagnan, running

up, never slows down; he crashes into the doors.

INT.  THE KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

The King whirls as the doors explode inward and d'Artagnan

barrels through.

The garden is empty.

D'Artagnan guides his guards out, but glances back to see the

King, ashamed and worried.  D'Artagnan tells his men --

EXT.  GARDEN - OUTSIDE THE KING'S WINDOW - NIGHT

An old Jesuit priest slips back into the garden chapel where

the nuns have returned to pray.  He kneels at a back pew,

tucking the iron mask deep within his robes.  The young

Musketeers who move through the garden glance into the

chapel, see only the normal piety, and move on.  The old

priest crosses himself, bows his head, and smiles.

CLOSE - PHILLIPPE'S EYES, THROUGH THE SLITS OF THE MASK

They are frightened.  As we PULL BACK we see the Iron Mask,

in an OVERHEAD POV... Phillippe is lying on his back, his

head resting on an anvil.  Athos stands close by, lending

support; Aramis and Porthos look on.  A blacksmith stands

over Phillippe.  He positions the point of his chisel against

the lock of the mask.  It takes several ringing hammer blows

-- which we experience from a POV WITHIN THE MASK -- before

the lock breaks.

Athos, as gently as he can, pries open the iron mask.

PHILLIPPE'S FACE

is a wretched sight, overgrown with a matted tangle of hair

and beard, and with a deathly pallor.

Phillippe sits up, lifting his head out of the mask.  He

looks at the Musketeers, watching them for their reactions.

At first they are frozen; then there is recognition, awe.

Phillippe sees a cooling bucket beside the forge, and looks

down into THE SURFACE OF THE WATER, at his REFLECTION.

INT.  THE MANOR HOUSE'S MAIN DINING ROOM - DAY

Aramis and Porthos are sitting at the table when Athos ushers

in --

PHILLIPPE, CLEANED UP

The change in him is remarkable, and his face so identical to

the King's that Porthos actually jumps.  Phillippe takes a

seat opposite Aramis, and looks around, wary, vulnerable.

Aramis' eyes are aflame as he looks across at Phillippe.

IN FLASHBACK...

We see the shadowy Musketeer we saw in the opening, moving up

the dark steps of the palace.  We see now it was Aramis.

INTERCUT FLASHBACK

We see images of that night, as we saw in the opening.

In the flashback we see the young Musketeer Aramis, his face

shielded in shadow, handing a living bundle over to someone

at one of the back doors of a large country house.

ARAMIS IN THE PRESENT

Phillippe is pale... We DISSOLVE TO a flashback of

Phillippe's early education in the country house.

The FLASHBACK moves to the palace, matching the narration --

We see in FLASHBACK Louis wearing his new crown, plotting.

We are in present time again.  All eyes are on Phillippe.

Aramis stops thundering at Athos, and turns to Phillippe.

Phillippe stands shakily, and faces them.

Phillippe walks -- nearly wanders -- from the room.

Athos, with a glare at Aramis, follows Phillippe.

EXT.  MANOR HOUSE GARDENS - DAY

The gardens are sun drenched, bursting with the beauty of a

French summer.  Athos finds Phillippe there, sitting alone.

Phillippe reaches to a flower, plucks it, and smells it.  He

looks around at the beauty of the garden, taking it all in.

Athos looks around too; then Athos realizes Phillippe is no

longer looking at the garden, but at him.

Before Phillippe can pursue this, Athos turns businesslike.

INT.  MANOR HOUSE DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Aramis is having dinner; he calls toward the kitchen.

Athos enters and sags into a chair, his energy spent.

EXT.  CHATEAU - NIGHT

As Aramis and Athos are downstairs arguing, we PAN UP to the

window of a candlelit bedroom...

INT.  CHATEAU BEDROOM - NIGHT

We PAN from the window to the bed... where Porthos is making

love -- or trying to.  We see his huge, bare, broad back,

blotting out all view of his partner.  He grunts, then roles

over in despair -- revealing not one but three serving girls

lying beneath him, jammed side-by-side like firewood, all

nearly smothered by Porthos' bulk.

Porthos heaves himself out of bed.

EXT.  CHATEAU - NIGHT

While Aramis and Athos are visible through the window,

arguing and gesturing, Porthos -- still naked -- walks across

the moonlit courtyard, to the barn.

INT.  DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Athos interrupts himself as he glimpses the naked Porthos

moving across the courtyard toward the barn.

We INTERCUT Porthos in the barn with Aramis and Athos in the

house...

IN THE BARN

Porthos, alone within the barn, finds a thick plow rope and

fashions a noose.

IN THE HOUSE

IN THE BARN

Porthos throws one end of the rope over the central beam of

the barn, and ties the other end off.  He shoves a milking

stool up below the noose, climbs onto it, and fits the noose

around his neck.  NOTE: When we see him in full view it is

only from behind -- and this angle is a sight to behold.

IN THE HOUSE

Aramis' detachment only aggravates Athos' excitement.

Athos jumps up and makes for the door -- but Aramis' hooded

helpers, at a signal from Aramis, bar his way.

IN THE BARN

Porthos, grave with drama, utters his last words...

He steps off the stool.

His great weight drops.  The rope snaps taught.  The beam it

is tied to snaps like a twig -- right in the place where it

has been sawn nearly in half already.

Porthos falls unencumbered and slams butt first into the

floorboards of the barn, cracking them.

ARAMIS AND ATHOS

can hear the crack from where they're sitting.

IN THE BARN

The chain reaction has just begun.  The broken floorboards

buckle, and the barn's walls, deprived of their central

support, fall in on each other.

IN THE FRONT ROOM

Athos and Aramis watch wide-eyed as the whole barn completely

collapses around the unfortunate Porthos.  Athos gives Aramis

a look.

They jump up and run out.  The commotion draws others too --

especially the three wenches Porthos had been trying to bed.

THE COLLAPSED BARN

It's a tangle of debris -- and from the size and weight of

the pile, it looks as if no one could live through the

collapse.  For a moment the whole pile lies silent; then

suddenly it bursts apart and Porthos emerges, exploding with

anger.

Porthos' eyes are bulging; he's terrifying in his fury.  And

he holds one of the broken barn's timbers like a giant club,

ready to bash in Aramis' brains.  Aramis is totally casual.

Porthos stands there, blinking.

Porthos starts back toward the house.  Then one of the

serving girls, heading back inside, sees in one of the upper

windows -- the face in the Iron Mask.  She SCREAMS --

Phillippe shies back from the window now, but it's too late,

everyone has seen him.  Aramis, with cold intellectual

curiosity, quietly observes the women's reaction, even as his

hooded helpers scurry from the shadows to calm the frightened

locals.

Athos hurries in; Aramis looks at Porthos.

INT.  PHILLIPPE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Athos enters to find Phillippe in a corner of the bedroom,

slumped and ashamed in the darkness, holding the mask.

Athos settles into a chair, as Phillippe lays the mask aside

on the table and closes his eyes.  Athos looks toward the

flames of the fireplace, and in their dancing shadows he sees

the face of Raoul.  Phillippe's voice interrupts --

Athos had not thought of it that way.  Phillippe closes his

eyes again, and falls asleep.

INT.  PHILLIPPE'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Light falls on Athos' face; it is dawn.  He hears the whinny

of horses, and looks out the window to see a carriage about

to leave.  Reacting quickly, he hurries out quietly.

EXT.  CHATEAU - MORNING

Aramis and Porthos are already loaded into the carriage, as

Athos runs up.

Aramis motions to the driver, who snaps the reins and drives

the horses away.

Athos, wide-eyed and alone, watches the carriage roll away.

He turns back toward the house, and see's Phillippe looking

out the window -- without the mask.

INT.  MANOR HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY

Athos and Phillippe are having breakfast.

He shows him, pinching the goblet between thumb and

forefinger, as the other three fingers extend daintily.

Phillippe tries it and the goblet slips from his fingers,

crashing onto his plate and spilling onto everything.

For a moment Athos can say nothing; then he shoves back from

the table and storms from the room.

INT.  COUNTRY MANOR HOUSE - ATHOS' ROOM - NIGHT

Athos is pacing in his room, all alone, rehearsing the things

he wants to say to Phillippe.

Athos' voice breaks, his body sags.

Athos weeps.

INT.  MANOR HOUSE - DAY

Phillippe sits alone in the parlor; he looks up as Athos --

his face washed, no sign of grief -- marches in.

MONTAGE - ATHOS TRAINING PHILLIPPE

-- They practice sword fighting, Athos being sure that

-- They rehearse holding court, with Athos showing Phillippe

-- They rehearse courtly dancing; and as they stumble, both

EXT.  PARIS STREET - NIGHT

Aramis' carriage rattles to a stop, the hooves of the horses

sounding hollow on the cobblestones.  They are near the same

area where the riots occurred; now, at night, everything

looks deserted.  Aramis steps from the carriage.

Porthos steps out with him, and Aramis leads the way down a

dark, spooky alley.

EXT.  PARIS BACKSTREETS - NIGHT

They walk through the murky darkness of Paris' backstreets.

Aramis grunts non-committally, lost in thought.

Just as he says this a sinister form steps from the shadows

and blocks their way.  He holds a knife.  Another ROBBER with

a sword rises from a doorway beside them.

Aramis looks bored; Porthos stands blinking in surprise.

Then a third robber steps up behind them, cocking a pistol.

The man with a sword steps forward to hack Porthos down, but

Porthos spins, slapping the pistol, making it BOOM but miss;

he kicks the swordsman in the groin, then smashes his head

against the alley wall; he backhands the gunman.  The robber

with the knife tries to run; Porthos snatches a barrel from

the street and hurls it into the fleeing robber's back; he

falls in a heap.

Porthos' fury has just begun.  He picks the fallen gunman up

by the throat, slams him stomach down across a broken alley

cart, and with one sweep of his mighty hand Porthos snatches

down the man's pants.

Porthos snatches the pistol from the cobblestones.  We see

the shock and terror on the robber's face as he feels

something shocking happen behind him.

Aramis, acting as if nothing happened, leads Porthos away.

Aramis has found what he's looking for:  a filthy brothel.

Aramis leads Porthos inside.

INT.  BROTHEL - NIGHT

Sleazy whores lounge around, women at the very bottom of

life.  They stir and try to look more appealing as the two

well dressed gentlemen enter.

A greasy, disgusting PIMP shuffles over.

The pimp reacts with fury, drawing a pistol.

Aramis slowly falls to his knees, before the pimp.

The pimp -- the former Father Belles, the same man we saw as

the priest who prayed with the Queen at the royal birth in

the opening -- shoves his pistol at Aramis' face.

Aramis' eyes are hypnotic, staring deep into the fallen

priest's soul.  Porthos is bug-eyed, certain Aramis' head is

about to be blown apart.

He stares at the pimp.  The pimp's finger trembles on the

trigger.

The pimp shakes convulsively; he drops to his knees, bows his

head, and weeps.

EXT.  STREETS OF PARIS - NIGHT

Aramis' carriage rattles through the dark streets; we play

these secret movement sequences with an ominous, Jack-the-

Ripper quality.  The carriage pulls into...

INT.  CATHEDRAL COURTYARD - NIGHT

The priests scurry out to meet it.  First Aramis emerges,

then Porthos -- but the appearance of the pimp surprises the

cathedral priests.  They cross themselves.

Crossing themselves, they embrace the prodigal priest; one

MONK kneels before Aramis.

As Aramis strides toward the dining room, a Jesuit hurries up

to him.

As Aramis hears this in surprise --

EXT.  ROADS - NIGHT

The carriage thunders through the countryside, back toward

the manor house.

EXT.  MANOR HOUSE - DAY

Athos and Phillippe sit at a table in the shade of a tree; on

the table is a model of the palace which Athos is using to

drill Phillippe on the palace's layout.

They are interrupted as the carriage bearing Aramis and

Porthos clatters in.  Aramis is out immediately.

INT.  CARRIAGE - ROLLING - DAY

The three Musketeers, plus Phillippe, are hurrying back

toward Paris.

And Aramis leans forward to tell them his plan...

EXT.  PALACE - DAY

Teams of servants are filing in and out of the palace with

food and flowers, decorating the ballroom for the ball that

evening.  In contrast, Anne and her devout retinue of nuns

move in single file toward the garden chapel.

INT.  GARDEN CHAPEL - DAY

The nuns kneel at the altar as Anne enters the confessional.

INT.  CONFESSIONAL BOOTH - DAY

He slides open the partition window between them.

He taps a silencing finger to his lips.

Anne stares at the eyes of the priest, back from hell.

INT.  PALACE - KING'S ROOM - DAY

As Louis' tailors outfit him in a dazzling gold peacock

costume, complete with a jeweled mask at the end of a wand,

he amuses himself by looking out the window at the beautiful

young women arriving early for the ball.

D'Artagnan enters, looking concerned.

Through the window Louis sees more beautiful young women.

He looks up to see that Michelle has entered through the open

door behind him.

But Michelle's appearance brings him up short.  It is not the

cruel brush-off; she is already harshly different:  her eyes

are red from crying, her lips are tight in anger.

She holds a letter, crushed in her hand.

She hurls the crumpled letter into his face.  Everyone is

frozen, silent.  She staggers toward Louis as if to attack

him, then falls to her knees, weeping.  No one helps her...

Except d'Artagnan.  He kneels, hugs her shoulders, helps her

to her feet, and guides her toward her room.  But d'Artagnan

looks back once, toward Louis.

As d'Artagnan and Michelle move out, they pass Anne, coming

in.  Anne and d'Artagnan exchange a look; he remembers to

give her a respectful nod, but she moves past, into the

King's dressing room.  Louis is surprised.

Exasperated, Louis waves his attendants away.

Avoiding her stare, Louis lifts a plaster bust of his father,

its eyes like the sightless pupils of Greek gods.

We see her from a low angle, from a POV behind Louis -- and

we see the plaster bust burst upon the marble floor.

And the night of Louis' "dream."  Anne begins to walk out.

Louis smiles; he thinks he has her.

All the blood is gone from Louis' face.  Anne walks from the

room, past Louis' waiting tailors.  He snaps at them.

They rush in.  As they scurry about, dressing him in gold,

Louis' composure returns; he stares at himself in the golden

mirror, likes what he sees... and smiles.

EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT

Aramis' carriage pulls off the road and into the trees.  The

Musketeers and Phillippe pile out, to find another much

grander carriage there waiting.  Aramis ushers them into it.

The new carriage lurches away.

INSIDE THE NEW CARRIAGE

are bundles of elaborate clothes.

They begin to dress Phillippe in a masquerade costume.

Aramis tucks a note into Phillippe's pocket.

Phillippe nods; everyone's nervous.  Aramis grabs more

clothes and hands them out.

EXT.  THE PALACE - NIGHT

Carriages disgorge guests, wildly attired for the masquerade

ball.  Porthos' carriage pulls in among them.

INT.  PALACE BALLROOM - NIGHT

A magnificent masquerade ball is in full swirl; the dazzling

light of chandeliers bounces off the gilt ceiling and

sparkles on the jewels of swirling dancers, their numbers

multiplied in the polished mirrors that line the walls.

The King is dancing and laughing with sexy young ladies.

D'Artagnan stands to the side of the ballroom, ever watchful,

ever remote.

As the dancers swirl, each one wearing a distinctive mask in

the garish style favored by the French nobility of the

1600's, we see one particular couple -- a large man, with an

excessively large woman.  They are dancing vigorously, and as

they take a break behind a huge pillar, they lift their masks

enough for us to see that the man is Aramis, and the "woman"

is Porthos.

From the folds of their elaborate costumes they both withdraw

replicas of the iron mask that Phillippe once wore.

Aramis peers across the ballroom, to where Athos and

Phillippe mix among the revelers, using thin sticks to hold

broad masks to their faces.  Behind the masks we see their

eyes -- Athos' intense, Phillippe's nervous and darting.

Then Phillippe's eyes go strangely still; he sees, for the

first time in his life, his twin brother, the King.

Louis dances the minuet, prancing as if he is the center of

the universe; but this bliss is broken when one of the

dancers who swirls by him -- it is Aramis -- lifts the

baroque outer mask he's wearing and reveals an iron mask

beneath.

The King staggers, stopping.  The sight stuns him, confuses

him; he looks around but the wearer of the mask has

disappeared among the weaving patterns of dancers.  Louis'

hands dart to his eyes:  are they playing tricks on him?

Seeing his reaction, Phillippe whispers --

The YOUNG BEAUTY dancing with Louis notices him falter.

Louis rejoins the dancing... and then sees, on the balcony

above him, a different person -- a huge "woman," Porthos --

who lifts off an outer mask to reveal an iron mask below.

Porthos has slipped away from the railing when the King looks

back up; the young beauty sees nothing, and turns back to the

King with a look that questions his sanity.

D'Artagnan notices the King's reaction -- though he did not

see the glimpse of the iron mask -- and is just as baffled as

everyone else when the King turns and staggers away.

The music splatters to an awkward stop; Louis hurries out,

leaving his partner abandoned in the center of the ballroom,

with everyone staring as if she just ruined the party.

The music begins again, and the party goers, not knowing what

else to do, politely continue.

Athos draws Phillippe away from the ballroom, into a side

corridor.

AT THE FOOT OF THE STAIRS TO THE BALCONY

Porthos waddles down stairs, and meets Aramis.

They hurry in the same direction Athos and Phillippe went.

INT.  PALACE HALLWAY - OUTSIDE THE KING'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

D'Artagnan catches up to the King as he is entering the door

of his royal apartment.

The King shuts the door in d'Artagnan's face.

INT.  THE KING'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The King falls upon his bed, pressing his hands to his head.

INT.  PALACE CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The three Musketeers and Phillippe move quietly up a stairway

and to the door of a room.  Phillippe whispers...

INT.  MICHELLE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The door opens and they move in; it is in fact empty, though

a mess.  They move to the wall, where Aramis, after a little

looking, locates the levers to open the wall/door to the

King's secret passageway.  Aramis enters first, the others

follow.  We half expect Michelle to pop up at any moment, but

the Musketeers enter the passage without incident.

INT.  SECRET PASSAGES - NIGHT

Aramis silently leads the others through the secret passage,

to the portal into the King's bedroom.

INT.  KING'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

The King is lying on the bed; we see him from the POV of

someone approaching him slowly, silently.  When his eyes open

in panic, it is too late... We see Aramis, Athos, Porthos

from the KING'S POV as they swarm him.

His fist drops into frame... Louis loses consciousness.

LOUIS' POV

as consciousness returns.  He see Phillippe in Louis'

clothes.  Aramis, Athos and Porthos bow and say...

LOUIS, still on his bed, now wears Phillippe's clothes.

Now Louis understands everything.  He tries to struggle, but

instantly Porthos shoves a rag into his mouth.

Aramis opens the main door a crack, and sees d'Artagnan has

entered his room down the corridor, through whose open door

he can guard the approaches to the King's rooms.  Aramis

shuts the door again and turns to the others.

Athos puts his hands on Phillippe's shoulders.

Aramis and Porthos bow again to Phillippe -- now dressed and

looking exactly like the King.  Phillippe's mouth is dry; he

swallows hard, and follows Athos up the hidden stairs.

INT.  MICHELLE'S BEDCHAMBER

Athos and Phillippe move to the door; they stop there, and

Athos adjusts Phillippe's costume one more time.

Phillippe nods, tremendously nervous.

Phillippe pats his pocket, like a boy being sent off to his

first day at school.  He surprises Athos, hugging him.  Then

Phillippe opens the door and walks slowly down the hallway.

Athos stands at the door and watches him go, all alone.

Athos whispers, though Phillippe can't hear...

Reluctantly, he shuts the door behind Phillippe.

IN THE HALLWAY, FOLLOWING PHILLIPPE

as he conducts himself through the ornate corridor, down the

gilded staircase... and into --

INT.  BALLROOM - NIGHT

Phillippe enters the ballroom, and the reappearance of the

"King" draws new attention.  Everyone in the dazzling

ballroom seems to stop and look straight at Phillippe.

Phillippe freezes.  Stares, everywhere, stares!  For what

seems an eternity, he can't move.

But then he raises his hand and says --

As if by magic the music plays, the dancing resumes.

Phillippe moves to the throne and takes his place upon it.

He seems to have made it; people glance -- dancing ladies,

young Musketeers, old advisors -- but no one gives him a

second look.  For a moment, Phillippe feels safe.

And then he sees Michelle, her eyes glassy and riveted upon

him.  She wears her most beautiful gown -- the first one

Louis gave her -- but one shoulder strap dangles sloppily.

Her lips and cheeks are awkwardly rouged, her hair is mussed;

she is drunk.  She weaves her way to him and curtsies

elaborately.

Phillippe's heart is pounding; he looks around for help.  He

can only guess who this woman is.  The advisors have now

noticed her; Claude quickly dispatches orders to keep the

party going along, and waves guards over.

She doesn't react, so he must have guessed right; but

Phillippe knows nothing of what happened just before the

ball, and he's ambushed by her anger.

She starts tearing off her dress.  Claude and the guards

reach her; the young Musketeers grabbing her.

But Michelle fights, slapping, clawing -- and when one of the

young Musketeers grabs her from behind, his arm to her

throat, Phillippe jumps up.

Phillippe's face shows something Louis' never did:

compassion.  He looks into Michelle's eyes.

Phillippe could not have said anything more unlike Louis;

everyone who heard the remark -- Claude, the guards, and

especially Michelle -- stare at him in frozen amazement.

Phillippe realizes his blunder; they've caught him.

The MUSIC STOPS.  But the attention is not directed at the

throne; all eyes shift to the main doorway, where Anne has

appeared.  She is indescribably beautiful; she wears a bright

gown, her hair is brushed and bejeweled, she radiates the

light of a woman who felt old at thirty and who has

discovered, at forty, that she is more stunning than ever.

Her arrival draws even more attention than the reappearance

of the King; everyone watches transfixed as she approaches.

Phillippe sees her -- his mother.  He stands on legs that

seem to have no bones.  His mother.

She moves to him, her eyes filling with tears.  When she is

almost to the throne, Phillippe falls to his knees before her

and kisses her hand.

No one can believe it, not from this King.  Yet the moment

strikes them as beautiful, and they applaud happily.

Phillippe and the Queen Mother rise, and guide each other --

depending on each other for support, to a seat, he on the

throne, she on a seat the servants place beside him.

Phillippe gives a wave.

The ball continues, the music exuberant.  Michelle wanders

away, like a blind lamb.  Phillippe and his mother sit side

by side, holding hands, their reunion passing in private

between their clasped hands, and glistening in their eyes.

INT.  THE PALACE CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Michelle, alone and forgotten, staggers down the corridor

toward the King's rooms; she passes d'Artagnan's open door.

INT.  THE KING'S BEDCHAMBER - THE THREE MUSKETEERS

are tidying everything up; they have Louis gagged and trussed

up hand and foot, his eyes flashing hatred.

Porthos drapes Louis over his shoulder, and they move into

the passages.  Just as they close the portal behind them, the

door opens and Michelle wanders in like a zombie.  Suddenly,

d'Artagnan is at her shoulder.

Then he sees the room is empty; he thought Louis was here.

INT.  BALLROOM - NIGHT

As a minuet ends, Claude raises his glass in a toast.

The guests applaud and reach for wine glasses; servants

present Phillippe and Anne with champagne, and they sip --

Everyone drinks; Phillippe suddenly remembers to hold his

glass in his fingertips -- and it slips through his nervous

fingers, hitting the floor with a crash.

Dead silence; everyone is looking.  Then Anne drops her glass

too -- and everybody does it, as if to break the glass is

part of the celebration.

As the music begins again, Anne leans to Phillippe --

She kisses him on the cheek; it brings tears to both of them.

She moves to the door, everyone bowing as she leaves.

JUST OUTSIDE THE BALLROOM DOOR

Anne encounters d'Artagnan.  He stops, so taken by the sight

of her that no one seeing them could miss that he loves her.

Remembering himself, he bows deeply.

She takes his hand, not caring who is watching.

She moves off, toward her room.  D'Artagnan enters the

ballroom.

INT.  BALLROOM - NIGHT

D'Artagnan sees "Louis" sitting on the throne.  More baffled

than alarmed, he grabs one of the Musketeer guards near him.

D'Artagnan stands and thinks; his mind begins to spin.

PHILLIPPE

sees d'Artagnan, staring at him... then calling more guards

over and giving them quick instructions; the guards hurry

away.  Then d'Artagnan moves to Phillippe, and bows.  He

looks at him carefully, but seems to see nothing unusual.

Phillippe stands, and follows d'Artagnan from the ball.

INT.  PASSAGES TO RIVER - NIGHT

Aramis, Athos and Porthos -- carrying Louis -- descend the

secret passages to the foundations of the palace, into a

drainage channel leading to the river.

They have stashed a boat there; they plop Louis into it and

climb in themselves.  They row toward the archway that is the

exit to the river; the moonlit waters of the Seine glow

outside, like a beacon of safe escape.

But the steel grate of the archway slams down just before

they reach it, and blades point at them from every angle of

the darkness.  A shielded lantern rises and its wick is

turned up, revealing

D'ARTAGNAN

he stands with a small contingent of young Musketeers.  His

eyes are intense, his face in agony.

The only one they can see it d'Artagnan.  They all look at

each other, in the small circle of light from the lantern.

Phillippe steps out of the darkness; his eyes are full of

shame and failure as he looks at Athos, but still he holds

on, trying to maintain the charade that he is Louis.

He means Phillippe.

Porthos turns and looks at Louis -- then reacts as if he's

totally surprised at the presence of this man tied up and

gagged beside him.

Athos grabs d'Artagnan's arm.

D'Artagnan takes his dagger and cuts the ropes that bind

Louis' hands, and the gag that has kept him from talking.

Aramis suddenly backhands Louis, knocking him flat on his

back in the boat, and pointing to him -- Louis.

Louis struggles upright.

Aramis slaps Louis again, and pleads with his eyes that

d'Artagnan accept their ruse.  D'Artagnan is dying inside.

Seeing they are about to be arrested, the old Musketeers in

the boat spring into action against their younger

counterparts.  Athos swats one swordsman with an oar; Porthos

seizes the guard who has grabbed a hold of the boat and

flings the man back into two of his comrades; Aramis grabs

Louis by the hair and puts his dagger to his throat.

Phillippe obeys.

D'Artagnan nods to his men, and they open the iron gate

leading out to the river.

The boat makes for the opening.  Just as it is about to reach

it, Louis forces Aramis' hand.

He kicks at the boat and struggles to stand, making the boat

tip wildly and throwing everyone in it all around.  Aramis

draws the dagger away from Louis' throat to keep from killing

him, and d'Artagnan makes a grab at Louis and drags him onto

the stone floor of the channel.

The boat is almost through the opening -- and Louis snatches

at his brother, Phillippe.

The current outside the gate is rushing by, and the boat is

already caught in the current; it's pulling away and the

Musketeers can't stop it.  Athos seizes Phillippe's legs and

tries to hold him, but the pressure of the current is great,

and now not only Louis but some of the young Musketeers are

helping hold Phillippe.

Phillippe's legs slip out of Athos' grasp, and the boat

flashes downriver...

Aramis, Porthos and Athos have escaped... but Phillippe is

captured, looking into the hate-filled eyes of his twin

brother Louis.

INT.  SECRET PASSAGEWAY - NIGHT

Louis is angrily climbing through the passageways, back up

into the main floors of the palace, venting his emotions at

d'Artagnan, just behind him; the young Musketeers with

Phillippe, their prisoner, follow along further back.

They reach a doorway, and the King bangs through it, into his

own bedchamber, still spouting anger.

D'Artagnan is frozen in surprise.  Phillippe and his guards

move into the room; seeing him in full light, wearing Louis'

own clothes, fans Louis' anger; he jumps forward and begins

ripping the royal garments off Phillippe.

D'Artagnan forces himself between Louis and Phillippe.

They whirl to see the Queen Mother, who has entered through

the main door.  She hurries to the space between her sons,

hugging Phillippe, then trying to hug Louis.

He motions to the young Musketeers to restrain her;

reluctantly they grip the arms of the Queen Mother.

Louis draws a sword from the scabbard of one of the young

Musketeers -- but d'Artagnan steps between him and Phillippe.

D'Artagnan sinks to his knees before the king.

The words cut into everyone:  Anne, Phillippe, the young

Musketeers.  But Louis' eyes are cold, as he responds --

Phillippe's plea makes Louis pause... then smile.

Anne screams, and Louis waves to the guards, who draw her

from the room, as d'Artagnan sags, on his knees before the

King he has served so faithfully.

Slowly, Phillippe lowers his head.

INT.  D'ARTAGNAN'S ROOM

D'Artagnan returns to his bare room; he sits down upon the

bed and drops his face into his hands.

Then he hears the sound, like a SCREAM, but short and

muffled, almost like the whelp of a kicked dog.  He lifts his

head sharply; where did that sound come from?  He is almost

too tired, too sad, to investigate.

Then the King, already shaken by the night's events, hurries

into d'Artagnan's room.

INT.  KING'S BEDCHAMBER

D'Artagnan enters, ahead of Louis.  They see nothing unusual,

and d'Artagnan moves up the hidden stairs toward Michelle's

apartment.

MICHELLE'S APARTMENT

D'Artagnan enters the room, and finds it empty -- but the

window is open.  He moves toward it...

INT.  KING'S BEDCHAMBER

The King is pacing as d'Artagnan reappears.

He points to the window.  Louis shoves open the drapes and

leaps back in horror.  Michelle has hanged herself outside

Louis' window, the golden bunting of her bed tied as a noose

around her neck.

INT.  QUEEN MOTHER'S APARTMENTS - DAWN

Anne has changed; she is tormented, but alive with energy,

pacing.  There is a knock at her door, and the old nun opens

it to d'Artagnan.  The old nun leaves them alone; d'Artagnan

moves to Anne and takes her hands, to look into her eyes.

He kisses her.  She drinks in his love.  Then he stands and

moves to the door.  He looks back, then stares out.

He looks back once more; he seems to want to tell her

something; but whatever it is, he can't find the words, and

with a last loving look at her, he walks away.

EXT.  ESTABLISHING THE BASTILLE - NIGHT

A sudden visual, establishing the Bastille, the horrific

legendary prison of Paris.

INT.  BASTILLE - NIGHT

Phillippe, his head covered in a burlap hood, is rushed

through the twisting stairways of the prison.

INT.  A CELL, IN THE BOWELS OF THE BASTILLE

The guards remove the hood, and Phillippe sees the cell.

Then he sees the blacksmith there, with a new iron mask, and

his eyes take on a fresh horror.

The guards seize him and the blacksmith places the mask over

Phillippe's face, as he screams.  They seal the mask with a

small padlock, whose key is distinctive, and jeweled.

INT.  BASTILLE - LATER

The two guards and the blacksmith are coming downstairs after

completing their work.  Far above them, in the prison tower,

the cries of the prisoner echo; he sounds like a raving

madman now.

The two guards and the blacksmith enter an office at the base

of the tower; the BASTILLE JAILER looks up.

Soldiers, swords drawn, appear in the doorway behind them.

Understanding, the blacksmith raises his hammer toward the

soldiers; but he is stabbed in the back by the jailer, and

the soldiers skewer the two guards who helped him.  A soldier

lifts the jeweled key from the hand of a dead guard.

THE KEY

is handed to the King by Andre, the young Lieutenant.  Louis

hangs the key around his own neck, with a thin gold chain.

The Lieutenant bows.  Louis smiles, and fingers the key.

EXT.  PARIS STREETS - NIGHT

Squads of young Musketeers gallop along the river, and

through the dark streets around it, searching...

ALONG THE BACK WALL OF NOTRE DAME CATHEDRAL, three forms

scurry through the darkness:  Aramis, Porthos and Athos,

heaving, wheezing.  They duck into a niche of the wall to

avoid capture from another patrol galloping by.  Then Aramis

unlocks a door in the cathedral wall and they stagger in.

INT.  CATACOMBS

The three Musketeers struggle through the catacombs, reach

the chapel, and fall gasping to the floor.

Porthos hauls himself to his feet and turns up the wick of

the lantern.  The rising light reveals a note, stuck to the

cupboard with the blade of a dagger.

He removes the note, and reads...

EXT.  BASTILLE - NIGHT

The stone walls rising into the Paris night seem to ooze

evil.  The building looks impossible to get into, much less

get out of; its doors appear to be solid blocks of wood,

encased in stone ramparts.

We hear a sharp, echoing KNOCK; Aramis, Athos, and Porthos

stand outside the main entrance, Athos slumped between the

other two like a beaten captive being delivered to jail.

No one answers their knock; the three Musketeers exchange

doubtful glance, and Porthos knocks again.  A guard inside

slides open a view port of the massive door.

The port shuts, bolts rattle, and the great door heaves open.

The Musketeers glance at each other again, and play their

roles, Aramis and Porthos dragging Athos inside.

INT.  THE BASTILLE - MAIN COURTYARD - NIGHT

The prison courtyard is murky in the darkness, and ringed by

doors leading into mazes of corridors to its dungeons.

Aramis and Porthos drag Athos into one of the shadowy portals

surrounding the courtyard.

INT.  BASTILLE - VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT

The three Musketeers duck into the inky shadows; Aramis cuts

the bonds that hold Athos' hands, and gives him the extra

sword he had beneath his cloak.

Aramis shushes them, and leads them into another quiet

corridor.  They hear the distant bells of a church, then

suddenly they must scramble, as a platoon of guards carrying

torches troop up stairs into the corridor; the Musketeers

dart like rats into dark nooks; as the guards pass, the

Musketeers huddle, and the bells end their tolling.

They press on, deeper into the Bastille.

INT.  PALACE - ANNE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Anne moves to the window, where she starts to kneel for her

nightly prayer; but she stops.  Outside in the garden, far

below her window, is d'Artagnan on horseback, waiting.  Their

eyes connect.  He has a single rose in his hand.  Never

taking his eyes from her, he places the rose on the stone

bench of the garden, and reins his horse away.

Then she understands what he was trying to tell her before,

in the hallway; it was goodbye.

EXT.  PALACE GARDEN - NIGHT

D'Artagnan rides away quickly, passing -- without seeing --

Lieutenant Andre, who has been watching him.

EXT.  PARIS STREETS - NIGHT

Through the night d'Artagnan gallops.  We see his destination

in the distance:  the Bastille.

EXT.  THE PALACE GATES - NIGHT

The great gates of the palace swing slowly open, and out ride

a whole platoon of young Musketeers, surrounding Louis

himself, on horseback and dressed like a soldier.

INT.  THE BASTILLE - VARIOUS SHOTS

The three Musketeers scramble down a flight of stairs,

through another corridor, down another stairway.  They pass

cells; wretched prisoners look up, but none of them is

Phillippe.  Then the Musketeers surprise a JAILER.

But before the man can say anything else, Porthos has crushed

him like a bug against the wall.  They rip the huge ring of

keys from the jailer's waist, and take his torch.

PHILLIPPE'S CELL

He lies on the floor; he sees the light of a torch, coming to

him like sunrise... and then he hears a voice --

They open the door and release him -- from the cell, but not

from the mask.  He tries to hug Athos.

They head back the way they came.

EXT.  PARIS STREETS - NIGHT

Louis and his platoon of young Musketeers ride through the

streets, scattering the paupers who sleep there.

INT.  BASTILLE - VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT

Back up the stairs... through one corridor... they start up

the second flight of stairs, then stop and scramble back.

They take cover on either side of the corridor, and lift

their swords.  It's a man coming down the stairs, with a

hooded lantern... they raise their swords to strike --

Porthos climbs the stairs to check; D'Artagnan looks at

Phillippe, in the mask.

Athos spits on the floor, in derision.  But Porthos comes

barreling back down the stairway.

He leads them quickly down a side corridor; the others have

no choice but to follow.

A SIDE CORRIDOR

D'Artagnan leads them around another corner, into a long

corridor; at the end of it is a massive door.  They reach it,

and d'Artagnan produces a set of keys marked with the royal

seal of the Musketeers; he begins unlocking the three

padlocks that secure the door.

They open the door... and as they do they see Louis and his

platoon of young Musketeers arriving outside.

The young Musketeers serving the King jump from their horses

and grab for the door; but d'Artagnan leaps forward, his

sword flashing.  After a second of surprise, Athos, Aramis

and Porthos jump forward too, and there is a brief, bloody

skirmish at the door.  But the young Musketeers have

overwhelming numbers, and firearms too; protecting Phillippe,

the old Musketeers draw back inside and succeed at pulling

the door shut and latching it quickly.

They race back up the corridor -- the four Musketeers, and

Phillippe, in the iron mask -- and turn the corner.  They

reach another inner door, pass through it -- and see the

soldiers of the Bastille coming at them.

They retreat, and Porthos slams the second door.  Like all

the inner doors of the Bastille, it's heavy wood, a foot

thick, and Porthos seals it with a huger iron bar.  But

there's nowhere else to run.

At the far end of the corridor, the King's young Musketeers

have the same keys to the outer door that d'Artagnan did, and

they are breaking through.  Louis and two dozen of his

personal bodyguard pour through the door.

The young Musketeers obediently charge down the corridor.

Stepping up shoulder to shoulder -- Aramis, d'Artagnan,

Athos, Porthos -- the four veteran Musketeers meet the

charge, first with pistols, then with swords, a wall between

Louis' men and Phillippe.  The battle in the cramped confines

of the corridor is bloody and fierce; the young attackers can

only get a few men into the fight at any one time, and those

who step before the famous veterans are cut down.

Louis' young Musketeers retreat, to regroup.

AT LOUIS' END OF THE CORRIDOR

Louis is furious, jumping at Lieutenant Andre, who has

dragged a wounded comrade back from the fight.

Louis is disgusted by this loyalty -- and he has a solution.

AT THE OTHER END OF THE CORRIDOR

Louis' voice echoes down to the veteran Musketeers and

Phillippe, in the Iron Mask.

The words bounce down the long corridor; then silence.

D'Artagnan stands holding his sword, staring away from his

friends, toward the King and his gang of young Musketeers.

Athos says nothing; but when d'Artagnan looks at him, he

lowers his eyes in shame for ever having doubted d'Artagnan's

loyalty and friendship.

Phillippe speaks up, from behind the Iron Mask.

This hits them like a bombshell -- and suddenly it all makes

sense; d'Artagnan's loyalty to Louis, his dogged hope that he

could somehow influence him toward goodness.  We see their

stunned faces, each in turn:  Athos, Aramis, Porthos, and

Phillippe.

D'Artagnan and Phillippe embrace, lost father to lost son.

From the heavily barred door to their rear comes a powerful

pounding; the Bastille's soldiers are trying to break it

down.  Time is running out.

Aramis looks back down the corridor toward the door to the

outside, barred now by Louis and his young guards, their long

muskets bristling like spikes; and yet that way is the only

possible hope for escape to the outside.

He draws his sword and points it into the air.  Aramis lifts

the tip of his sword to join that of d'Artagnan.  Porthos

does too... and then Athos joins them.

D'Artagnan gives Phillippe a dagger.  They look at each

other.  Then d'Artagnan begins to scream.  The others take up

the shout.  Then they step around the corner, and charge.

THE LAST CHARGE OF THE MUSKETEERS

We film it in all its glory, a visual feast:  the Last Charge

of the Musketeers.  Their capes swirl about time, their hair

flies, their legs take on new life.

At first the young Musketeers at the end of the corridor are

frozen in surprise; their youthful Lieutenant is awed by the

dashing, beautiful bravery of the thing.

Louis grabs a musket from one of the reluctant soldiers and

fires:  SSSBOOM!  With the first explosion of gunfire the

others pull their triggers; the powder in their weapons

flashes and crashes...

The musket balls fly down the hallway, sparking off the stone

walls and floor, ricocheting, punching holes through the

capes and flesh... but still the Musketeers charge like the

young men they once were -- still are, in spirit.

In the confines of the Bastille's stone corridor the noise is

deafening, and the space in front of the guards is filled

with the dense gray smoke of the gunpowder.  None of them can

see anything beyond it... and all is quiet.

The King's Guards draw their swords, and wait; are all the

old Musketeers dead?

Slowly the figures emerge from the smoke -- in SLOW MOTION,

walking now, no need to run.  All are wounded, but all are

still alive.

The Four Musketeers, along with Phillippe, move slowly and

steadily toward the blades of the young Guards; a fight to

the death?  So be it.

But the young Lieutenant will have none of it; as one of his

men lifts a sword to plunge it into the chest of d'Artagnan,

the young Lieutenant bats the sword down, with his own.

He steps forward toward d'Artagnan; but instead of thrusting

his sword he salutes with it.

His men follow suit, saluting and bowing to the courage of

these men they have grown up wanting to follow.

King Louis, for the moment, is frozen.

D'Artagnan looks back at Phillippe; he has bullet holes in

two different places at the edges of his clothes, but he is

unwounded.

Then d'Artagnan sees Louis, with his long dagger, leaping at

Phillippe.

D'Artagnan throws himself between the two twins and hurls

Louis backwards, then spins to Phillippe.

Louis bounces off the wall and thrusts back again, driving

the blade into d'Artagnan's back.

D'Artagnan's face jolts; he staggers, his legs buckle.

D'Artagnan falls into the arms of his friends.

Louis stands holding his bloody dagger, everyone staring at

him:  d'Artagnan, the old Musketeers, the young ones.

He leaps into Louis, overwhelming him in fury, wrenching the

dagger from his brother's hand and gripping his throat.

Phillippe releases Louis, who falls, choking, gasping.

Lieutenant Andre is surprised by what he just heard.

Phillippe darts to d'Artagnan, being cradled by Athos; Athos

lifts a hand from d'Artagnan's back; it is drenched in blood.

D'Artagnan is dying.

Athos, Aramis, Porthos... none of them can speak.  They grip

d'Artagnan, as if through their will alone they could keep

his life from leaking away.  The young Musketeers stand

transfixed, watching their legendary Captain die.  Phillippe

sags; his voice from behind the iron mask is torn by grief.

He is gone.

Phillippe rises with a slow, terrible resolve, and moves to

Louis.  When Louis tries to rise to his feet he finds the

blade of the young Lieutenant Andre pointed at his chest.

He points to d'Artagnan.  Phillippe rips away the key that

dangles around Louis' neck.

AT THE OTHER DOOR

where the soldiers of the BASTILLE'S COMMANDER are finally

breaking through; working the massive door aside they find --

THE KING with his guards, and Aramis, Athos, Porthos, along

with their prisoner, in the Iron Mask.

A blow in his chest from the Lieutenant stuns the prisoner

and drops him to his knees.  The King orders the BASTILLE

GOVERNOR --

He means Aramis, Porthos, and Athos.

But the guards are dragging him to the deepest, darkest

dungeon of the Bastille.

EXT.  LANE OF ELMS - BESIDE THE PALACE - DAY

At the end of a lane of elms, where the markers of king's

graves stand clustered, royal workmen place a mighty marble

monument stone above the final resting place of d'Artagnan.

Athos, Aramis, Porthos, and the King -- Phillippe, known as

King Louis now -- stand gathered there, as Aramis in his

priest's garments utters the funeral incantations.  Aramis'

voice breaks as he does so.  Porthos' eyes pour out rivers of

tears.  Athos' grief is beyond weeping.

Phillippe holds the arm of his mother.  She holds the rose

d'Artagnan left her.

Athos moves up between Aramis and Porthos, and links them

with his arms.

Aramis and Porthos move off together, to walk the lane of

elms; Athos remains by the grave, unable to leave.

Phillippe pats Anne's arm.

She too moves down the lane of trees, touching the tip of the

rose pedals to her lips as the tears run down her face.

Phillippe moves up to Athos.

Athos can't speak; he can only nod yes.  Phillippe moves to

join his mother, leaving Athos to take one final look down at

the grave.  Then as Athos moves off to join Aramis and

Porthos, we PAN from the name "D'ARTAGNAN" on the stone, to

the pattern chiseled beneath the name.

It is a mask, of iron.

