FADE IN:

There's gentle motion in the blank frame, like swirling 16mm

grain. A RUMBLE starts to build, low but growing louder...

The grain moves faster, big chunks fluttering, now a dirty

dishwater grey. The RUMBLE becoming a HOWLING WIND.

Churning black water LAPS at the bottom of the frame...

EXT. HUDSON RIVER - DAWN

A blizzard, at the peak of its power. Visibility zero, New

York reduced to the hulking shapes of buildings on the banks.

MAX PAYNE thrashes in the water, a long way from shore.

Chunks of ice float in the dirty water around him. Max's

body freezing, skin turning blue. Heavy winter clothes

saturating, like an anchor dragging him down...

Max's face sinks below the surface...

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Nothing to orient us to the location, the time. Just a flash

of golden light filling the hall, warm as the river was cold.

Around a closed door, sunlight streams through the gaps...

BEDROOM

A WOMAN sleeps on the bed, curled up around a bundled BABY.

Is this the final, peaceful memory of a drowning man?

Something's wrong, then: the woman's body in an unnatural

position, more thrown than laid across the bed. The crib

tipped over, blankets scattered. Her eyes frozen open.

Something BLACK flutters against the window pane, CRACKING

into the glass. The sound of the BLIZZARD creeps in...

RESUME - HUDSON RIVER

Wind POUNDS the river where Max had once been, but there's no

more thrashing in the water. Mixed in behind the falling

snowflakes, BLACK SHAPES swirl and dive closer to the water.

Max breaks the surface - GASPING, STRUGGLING against the

undertow. Not simply trying to breathe...trying to swim.

EXT. STREET (NYC) - NIGHT

Abruptly, the snow is gone. Just a bitter wind left in its

place, whipping through desolate streets long after midnight.

Shuffling up the littered sidewalk, three rough-looking MEN

duck out of the wind by descending down to the subway...

On the dark side of the street, a pair of BOOTS follows them.

TITLE CARD:      ONE WEEK EARLIER

INT. ROSCOE ST. STATION - DAY

A filthy platform, empty except for the three Men huddled on

a bench. A squeaking TURNSTILE catches their ear...

The same boots grind towards the Men. We don't see the

walker's face, distracted by something else: a gleaming gold

wristwatch. As if to make certain the Men notice, he pulls

back his sleeve to check the time. Quarter past three...

The watch glints as it passes into a dark doorway marked

`MEN'S.' The Men follow, exchanging wicked grins. Too easy.

SUBWAY BATHROOM

The Men slink into the bathroom, smirking at their oblivious

prey at the sink. Steam rising, he sets the watch on the

edge of the sink before washing his hands...

No answer. One of the Men LOCKS the door.       At the sound of

the lock SNAPPING, he raises his head...

Max Payne, but not yet the man struggling for life in the

river: clean-shaven, skin like bleached bone. Haunted eyes.

In the murky mirror, Max sees the Men circling closer...

Max shuts off the water and calmly turns to face them.

Doug frowns, deeply confused about being called by his name.

While Doug digests that, PAWNSHOP pulls a pistol and trains

it on Max's forehead. The third man - not much more than a

KID, visibly frightened - backs towards the door.

Distractedly eyeballing Max, Doug brushes the watch off of

the sink. It hits the dirty tile, delicate crystal CRACKING.

In a sudden blur of movement, Max has one hand on the pistol,

the other one SMASHING into Pawnshop's windpipe...

Doug steps forward to help... BOOM! The pistol goes off as

Max pries it free. Max looks up at Doug. Nowhere to run, he

races into the farthest stall and SLAMS the door.

In the same instant, the Kid bolts for the door. Max has to

pick: follow or stay with the man he's tracking...

In the stall, Doug crawls on his stomach across the sticky

floor, trying to squeeze under the divider. Max raises the

pistol and BLASTS a hole through the door of the next stall.

The newly-perforated door flies open. Handcuffs SNAP,

restraining a WHIMPERING Doug to the toilet pipe.

Doug finds himself staring at the pistol's front sight. Max

reaches into his pocket and produces a tattered photograph...

It's the woman from Max's golden vision in the river.

Doug shakes his head violently, confusion and terror rising.

Sighing, Max unlocks Doug from the pipe, hauling him up and

slamming into the wall as he cuffs his hands behind his back.

PLATFORM

Max stalks out of the bathroom, pushing Doug ahead of him.

Down on the tracks, the Kid shrinks into the shadows...

SUBWAY TUNNEL

The Kid runs down the dark tracks, nervously glancing back at

the receding light of the platform.   He slows gradually,

relaxing as escape seems certain.

Down to a walk, he startles at movement in the tunnel ahead:

FLAPPING WINGS - a bird, lost and trapped underground?

The Kid freezes, his frightened BREATHS almost enough to

drown the sound out. It grows, though, more WINGS joining...

He turns to retreat up the tracks, but the WINGS suddenly

seem to be echoing towards him from all directions.

Panicked, the Kid becomes disoriented in the growing RACKET,

the tunnel ahead begins to glow brighter as he spins...

Visible now in the growing light, BLACK SHAPES flicker above

the tracks - dozens becoming hundreds, swelling larger, their

POUNDING wings joined by a train RUMBLING closer...

Frozen, the Kid can only squint into the headlights closing

in, petrified by the dark wings SWIRLING around him...

I

The front room of the cold case department is a mess - desks

piled high with paperwork and a week's worth of coffee cups.

Halfway in the front door, a young DETECTIVE stands holding a

box of his belongings. He looks around for signs of life.

SERGEANT ADAMS wanders down the hall, frowning at the draft.

HALLWAY

Sgt. Adams leads the detective down a hall, giving the tour.

The Sergeant continues towards the center of the building,

farther from the light of the windows. He stops at a door.

FILE ROOM/MAX'S OFFICE

They enter a windowless cave, long rows of metal cabinets

stretching on forever into the heart of the building. At a

desk in the corner, Max slumps over a stack of files.

D

M

He nods, but the Detective is too busy making a note to see.

The Detective turns to Max, embarrassed after his reprimand.

Max smiles and nods, but his eyes give him away as a liar:

HALLWAY

The Detective steals a look at Max as Adams shuts his door.

W

M

Naturally, this reaction piques the detective's curiosity.

The detective nods.     Adams glances through the window at Max.

MAX'S OFFICE

Max sneaks a sideways glance to the door, watching Adams lead

the new Detective away. Once they're gone, Max reaches into

his desk and removes a file... `PRESTON, WILLIAM A.'

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A lock POPS.     Max steps inside, only silence to greet him.

Max lays his jacket across the back of a worn leather chair,

footsteps REVERBERATING because there's little other

furniture to absorb the sound. He keeps walking...

KITCHEN

...past a table with one chair, past gleaming counters. Max

fills a glass of water from the tap. Eyes blank, patient.

LIVING ROOM

Carefully, Max rests the full glass on the arm of the chair.

Reaching underneath the chair, Max produces an artist's

sketchbook and places it delicately on the table before him.

Sith trembling hands, Max turns back the battered cover...

swirls of oil pastels sketch out a still life in Technicolor.

Gradually, Max's eyes lose their hardness. His breaths come

FASTER, ragged. Jaw clenched, he turns the page...

I

More flowing brush strokes, the artist's feminine initials...

Max reaches up to turn the page, hands shaking severely...

He takes hold of the corner of the page, but his muscles

won't cooperate - as if the page ways more than Max can lift.

Max's skin flushes red...tears almost welling...

And then at once, Max slams the book shut and turns away.

CLOSET

The door swings open. Hanging inside, the battered coat we

saw Max wear in the subway. A pistol on a hook by the door.

Urban armor, scarred by countless nights of service.

Max dresses himself for battle, eyes returning to stone.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Max climbs out of the subway into a neighborhood with a foot

in two worlds: the buildings are old and crumbling, but the

shops inside are sleek and expensive. A jarring combination.

M

FASHIONISTAS jostling for the same space on the sidewalk.

The hallway is ancient brick, but the doors are pristine

steel. Pausing at one with a dozen locks, Max KNOCKS.

The door cracks.    An EYE appears.   Squinting, evaluating.

The door cracks enough to reveal the speaker: TREVOR, skinny-

fat in an sharp suit and sunglasses, shirt open a little far.

TREVOR'S APARTMENT - ENTRANCE HALL

Max follows Trevor inside. The narrow brick entry opens into

a cutting-edge loft beyond, filled with modern art and a

gathering of BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE milling around enjoying it.

One of the guests catches Max's eye: NATASHA, young and

beautiful, returns his gaze for an extra moment and smiles.

Trevor stands his ground, not flinching at Max's threat.

Max nods, fatigue fighting the determination in his eyes.

W

M            N

Max doesn't answer. His eyes have drifted back to Natasha.

She plucks a drink from a passing tray, revealing a dark

smudge across the inside of her wrist as she does.

Suddenly intent, Max pushes past Trevor and into the loft.

LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Max weaves through the party towards Natasha, out of place in

his utilitarian clothes. She looks up as he gets closer...

She speaks with a Russian accent - smiling, a little nervous.

Rather than answering, Max's eyes drop to her wrist.

black wing, stylized feathers tracing faint blue veins.

Max follows her gaze to the front door, where Trevor is

nervously greeting another new arrival: MONA SAX. She's

striking, beautiful but also a little frightening. It

doesn't hurt that she's flanked by BODYGUARDS. Russian Mob.

Seeing Natasha standing with Max, Mona barrels across the

room towards them. People stand aside to let her pass.

Natasha RESPONDS in kind, clearly intimidated by Mona.

Abruptly, Mona grabs Natasha's arm, jerking her off balance.

S

Mona returns to Natasha, dragging her towards the door.

Natasha's tone becomes PLEADING, physically no match for

Mona. Max steps in, reaching up to touch Mona's shoulder...

I

arm. Incredibly, he's just as fast, slipping free of the

grip that would surely have snapped his wrist...

For a moment, Max and Mona stare each other down. Surprised,

reevaluating each other. Natasha continues to TALK, her

Russian anxious as Mona's bodyguards push through the crowd.

Mona's eyes drop to Max's chest, where the tussle pulled his

coat open to reveal a low-pro holster and tarnished badge.

With the flick of her wrist, Mona stops her guards' advance.

The crowd begins to notice the altercation. Natasha keeps

TALKING, trying desperately to make peace and reassure Mona

of something. Mona's eyes cut between Natasha and Max...

As Max nods at the understatement, Trevor rushes over,

forcing a broad smile to reassure his guests. He pulls Max's

coat closed over the badge and ushers him towards the door.

Max turns to the spot where Natasha had been.   She's gone.

HALLWAY - LATER

The party has grown more crowded. Max fights his way down a

dark hall, searching the shadowed faces he passes. Back

here, the music is nothing but GROWLING BASS.

S

A

A flickering glow escapes the gaps around one door...

DARK ROOM

A ring of candles in the center of the floor provides the

only light. It's not enough to really see the PEOPLE inside.

We hear them CHANTING, low voices MURMURING in unison...

Quick glimpses in the candle light, bare flesh writhing.

Cast on the walls, corresponding shadows twist and shift...

A black feather billows across the floor between candles.

Spreading up the wall, a new shadow rises above the rest...

Max appears in the doorway as the shadows loose their shape -

Max only catching a glimpse, not sure what he's seeing...

HALLWAY

As Max strains to see detail in the dark room, a face

materializes in the haze: cheeks laced with tattoos, eyes

twinkling flames sunk in deep shadow. JACK LUPINO.

immediately notice something different about her: staring

boldly into Max's eyes, all her earlier shyness vanished.

Natasha glances through the door at the shifting shadows,

smiling at what she sees. Max follows her eyes...

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Max leads Natasha inside. Before he can even shut the door,

Natasha pounces - kissing, hands running over his body. As

he pushes back, Natasha's hands slip into Max's pockets...

Abruptly, Natasha breaks away and looks around the apartment.

Not really interested, Natasha walks deeper into the room.

In response, Natasha unbuckles her pants and lets them drop.

Still walking, opening her shirt on her way out of the room.

HALLWAY

Max moves down the hallway, following a trail of clothing.

From inside a room, we hear the faint sound of CHANTING...

BEDROOM

In Max's bed, a thin sheet barely covers Natasha's body. Her

lips tremble with a slurred SONG. With predatory eyes, she

watches Max stop in the doorway, something holding him back.

Caught off guard, Max tries to figure out how much he'll say.

Natasha resumes CHANTING as she waits - a stream of frantic

SYLLABLES rattling off, nothing recognizable as words.

Natasha grins, legs spreading, sheet starting to fall away...

A

N

Like a switch, Max's face closes off again.

Natasha explodes out of the bed, springing up naked in front

of Max - shoulders heaving with rage, eyes wild black holes.

For a moment, it seems like Natasha is about to attack.    Not

physically intimidated, Max stares at her in disbelief.

Natasha stomps into the hall, gathering her clothes. She

pulls a cell phone from her crumpled pants and dials...

Max watches her disappear down the hall, front door SLAMMING

a moment later. He looks around, silence returning again.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Natasha walks down a dark, desolate block, the sound of her

HEELS echoing off of the crumbling buildings around her. Her

eyes are still wild, her stride quick and aggressive.

A group of MEN huddle in a stairway to avoid the wind. As

Natasha passes, they look up at her with equally wild eyes.

into the darkness like she's been there many times before.

In the distance, faint MUSIC rumbles through the street.

R

A

ALLEY

Natasha barrels down the alley, squinting to see ahead.        The

music is a little louder, BASS shaking the dumpsters.

A

Suddenly unsettled by something, Natasha's pace slows.      She

tenses, all her swagger vanishing before our eyes...

Nothing - just the FLICKERING of moths swarming the alley's

only light, their shadows black shapes against the bricks.

The sound of much larger BEATING WINGS fills the alley...

Eyes wide with terror, Natasha searches for something in the

shapes cast by the moths, dread deepening as she finds it:

Natasha CRIES OUT, stumbling back.      She turns, running...

Natasha's SCREAMS seem lost in the chaos of wind and WINGS

and distant MUSIC. She suddenly stops running...

More SHADOWS assemble ahead of her, their black wings open.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - MORNING

Max hurriedly dresses, wearing the same suit from yesterday.

He picks up his keys, searching around for something else -

feeling the pockets of his jacket, down in the cushions...

OFFICE

Max moves up the sidewalk, nearly at the steps of his office.

A rough-running ENGINE idles up the street, getting closer.

Slowly, Max realizes that he's being followed. He turns...

A

much rougher condition, everything about him a little ashen.

He watches Max turn away from the office and move closer.

Max returns Alex's stare. We don't know if they're about to

smile or open fire. They don't seem to know, either.

Alex slides over and throws the passenger side door open.

A

INT. ALEX'S CAR - DAY

Alex and Max ride in silence, a palpable tension in the car.

one out. He holds the pack out to Max, who shakes his head.

Alex nods, smiling, using his lighter and then laying it with

the pack within Max's reach. Max doesn't even glance down.

After a silent moment, Alex looks over at Max and frowns.

Shaking his head in disbelief, Alex pulls to the curb.

T

sealed with police tape, COPS posted to keep onlookers away.

Alex pulls a flask from under his seat, taking a quick pull.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Alex approaches the alley, pulling on a leather jacket and

snapping a badge onto his belt. The cops let him pass.

Max follows Alex, slowing as he crosses the police tape. By

the crowd of CSI TECHS, what started here didn't end well.

There's blood everywhere, a dozen white sheets on the ground.

Confused, Max studies the sheets. On second look, they

aren't covering anything quite big enough to be a whole body.

M

Max and Alex turn to see that they've attracted spectators,

the other DETECTIVES D the alley watching them intently.

The Detective grins, proud of his wit. Alex and Max move on

without comment. Max looks at the sheets, shaking his head.

Alex pulls out a plastic evidence bag, holding it out...

Max's wallet.

Inside the clear bag, Max's ID picture is smeared with blood.

revealing a pale forearm with a delicate tattoo of a wing.

Max looks up at Alex, who is suddenly quite agitated. He

glances back at the other detectives - they're staring at

Alex and Max, whispering something amongst themselves.

F

Alex hands over the address and hurries away, leaving Max

standing in the alley, surrounded by Natasha's remains.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Max steps out of his car, moving up the sidewalk to a

surprisingly nice apartment building: uniformed doorman, the

works. Double-checking the address, Max steps inside...

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Near the end of the hall, Max stops at an apartment door.

The wood is splintered, pieces of the frame hanging loose...

Max checks the hall in both directions, drawing his pistol...

ALEX'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM

Careful not to make a sound, Max steps into a living room so

messy that it's hard to say for sure if it's been ransacked.

Max flips a switch by the door, but no lights come on.

Max pauses so his eyes can adjust to the traces of

streetlight sneaking through the blinds. He moves deeper...

KITCHEN

Pistol ready, Max moves into the kitchen. Dirty dishes,

flies swarming around the necks of countless liquor bottles.

U

HALLWAY

Max creeps down a hallway.   His shoes CRUNCH in something:

A

M

A broken mirror scattered in the hallway, the pieces growing

more concentrated towards the dark end of the hall.

Max reaches an open doorway.   Cautiously, he sweeps inside...

In the hallway behind Max, SOMETHING moves in the shadows.

grinding underfoot. Something lies in the floor ahead...

visible inside a room. A badge on the belt, a service

revolver limp in it's fingers, tattered leather jacket.

Alex.

At the moment that registers, a NOISE in the hallway behind

him sends Max ducking for cover in the doorway beside him.

Max crouches, gun raised, staring at Alex's motionless body.

FOOTSTEPS grow closer...slow, steady...

Max uses the fragments of mirror scattered around Alex's

legs, each giving a tiny view of the hallway...

One piece shows a FIGURE moving closer, shrouded in darkness.

A

It's Alex, staring at Max, seeming to silently beg for help.

Max looks from the reflection to the legs. There's no way...

There's no way Alex's head is still attached to his body.

Thunderstruck, Max looses track of the shadows moving closer

to his hiding spot, unable to pull his eyes away from Alex.

The Figure lunges out of the shadows, slamming into Max...

The Dark Shape's slashing blows glint in the moonlight, cold

metal slicing the air faster than Max can fend off...

A RAPID SERIES OF IMAGES:

Max drags himself up the hall, hands slicing on the shards.

The air echoes with angry VOICES, LAUGHTER and SCREAMS.

Blood drips down the walls, shadows teem with movement...

The FLAPPING grows louder, gusting WIND scattering glass.

Max SHOUTS, disoriented, instinctively pushing himself on.

Alex's eyes, frozen wide, watch as Max crawls closer...

Shadows in the air above Max roil with movement. Demonic

HOWLS rattle the windows. Max reaches out to Alex...

Above them, black wings POUND.

I

Max's eyes pop open.

He lies in a hospital bed, surrounded by flashing machinery.

Beyond the soft WHIR of equipment fans, the room is silent.

In a chair by the bed, BB HENSLEY (50s) watches Max wake up.

BB's face is weathered and hard, but his smile is kind.

Max nods groggily, struggling to find his bearings...

Suddenly, something breaks through.

BB nods, shivering at the mental image his name produces.

Max pops up, tangling the IV tubes running into his hand.

Max wraps the clear tube around his hand and SNAPS it free.

As Max takes an unsteady step onto the cold tile floor, a

concerned BB throws his overcoat across Max's shoulders.

INT. BB'S CAR - DAY

BB and Max ride in silence, RADIO overpowered by the blasting

heater. Max closes the overcoat over his hospital gown.

BB pulls against the curb on a block unfamiliar to Max.

EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - DAY

A massive stone structure, squat like a military fortress and

black under the storm clouds. There have been updates over

the years, but nothing could to hide the age of the building.

I

BB starts across the sidewalk to the entrance. Max follows,

giving a confused frown at the building they're approaching.

BB leads Max through a wrought-iron gate, into a small

courtyard leads back to the thick wood doors of the entrance.

A proud parent, BB points at a deep pit in the stone wall.

M

The double doors fly open onto a massive office - dark wood

panelling, a wall of windows glowing white from the snow.

Max goes to the windows. Spreading out bellow him, the wide

black expanse of the East River rolls past. Bridges arc up

into the storm clouds and disappear before they hit Brooklyn.

While BB roots around inside, Max absently scans his desk.

A slick company newsletter - `AESIR PHARMACEUTICALS.' On

the cover, NICOLE HORNE - 50's, dignified, not quite smiling.

`A HOLIDAY MESSAGE FROM THE CEO' printed below her face.

E

M

M

Max flips the pages - smiling scientists, sparkling labs...

portrait. The same face in the photo Max showed the Junkie.

Taken by surprise, Max doesn't seem to hear BB's explanation.

Max nods, turning his eyes away from the photograph.

something else to focus on. BB studies his body language.

Max doesn't answer, slipping into a wrinkled dress shirt.

Cars line the drive leading into the cemetery. People leave

their warmth and hurry through the iron gates - these

mourners especially determined, a community out to honor a

fallen brother. BB and Max follow them onto the...

CEMETERY PATH

Max's eyes are on the cemetery. BB follows his gaze...

Two marble angels on the hill. One smaller than the other.

B

M

Max shakes his head.

Up ahead, a young mother tends to two little girls dressed in

black, escorted through the cemetery gate by the HONOR GUARD.

CHRISTA HILLMAN, Alex's widow. Face blank, still in shock.

waiting to enter the cemetery. One by one they notice Max,

jaws clenching. Max doesn't realize the gauntlet he's in,

distracted by a glance of BB slinking into the graves...

...where NICOLE HORNE watches the funeral from among the

headstones, almost overdressed in head-to-toe black. Close

at hand, JASON COLVIN holds Nicole's umbrella.

Max glances back at the path and finds himself facing a wall

of angry cops. He keeps walking, no sign of backing down.

Even with the cops making way, the walk to Christa is hard -

the heartbreak and grief on her face slowing Max's gait.

Christa's eyes bore into Max with all the weight of a long

and deep friendship, momentarily shaming him into silence.

Christa steps towards Max, teeth gritted with powerless rage.

T

M

and continues up the path to Alex's waiting coffin.

Shamed, Max turns away and starts back down the path alone.

Everyone turns to see JIM BRAVURA (40s) leaning on the fence.

reaction from the other cops: nobody likes this guy. Max

looks around, humiliated.

GRAVESIDE

The honor guard stands in formation by the flag-draped

casket. The PRIEST waits, his bible ripping in the wind...

Christa twists around in her chair, looking down at the

cemetery gate. She sees the crowd, Max being escorted away.

Above them all, Nicole Horne stands like a shadow between the

graves, too far away to hear the words of the priest.

INT. BRAVURA'S OFFICE

A cramped office, packed with boxes - a civil servant's tomb.

Wedged behind the desk, Bravura sorts through his notes. Max

and BB sit across the desk, left on ice while Bravura reads.

Bravura slides a folder over to Max - photographs of the

alley, Natasha's covered body. Bravura watches his reaction.

Max shrugs.

The slightest uncomfortable look passes between Max and BB.

Max stays stone-faced, burying any emotion Bravura could use.

Bravura replaces Natasha's pictures with a stack of shots

taken in Alex's apartment. Despite himself, Max freezes.

B

Max is distracted by the photographs: enormous blood stains

in stark flash bulb light, no longer hidden by the shadows.

Max looks up from the picture, realizing he's been baited

into saying more than he'd meant to. He starts for the door.

As Max storms out, BB calmly stands and pulls on his jacket.

As BB turns to leave, Bravura stands from behind his desk.

BB looks back and sees the business card Bravura's holding

out. After a conflicted moment, BB slips it into his pocket.

ELEVATOR

Still fuming from the encounter with Bravura, Max watches the

numbers over the door fall. BB stands beside him, anxious.

A car load of PEOPLE surround them, pressed tightly together.

M

M

A

Max doesn't respond, eyes drifting to the directory mounted

above the buttons. `2ND FLOOR, TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS,' `5TH

FLOOR, NARCOTICS....'

Max's eyes find `10TH FLOOR, HOMICIDE DIVISION.'

The doors open with a CHIME, and the CROWD presses forward.

H

BB steps out with the other passengers, still talking to Max.

BB turns to see if his words are doing anything to reach Max.

However, Max is still standing in the elevator, the only one

left on the car. He presses the button for the tenth floor.

The doors LURCH shut.

HOMICIDE OFFICE

Max steps into the room.

cold case department: desks cluttered by labor instead of

neglect, DETECTIVES engaged in their telephone conversations.

Eyes start to find him.

Max stops at a door marked `ALEX HILLMAN.'    It's locked.

F

M

B

Max doesn't look up.       He keeps SHAKING the handle, desperate.

One by one, the detectives climb to their feet, expressions

showing outrage and anger. They close in on Max...

M

Max steps inside.       Enraged, the detectives start to follow...

ALEX'S OFFICE

The doorknob RATTLES, no method this time. SHOUTS and BANGS

ring through the door. Ignoring it, Max surveys the room...

The office is bare, no decorations or personal touches. Max

walks deeper into the room, opening a filing cabinet. Empty.

Trying to remain calm while the door SHAKES violently, Max

turns his attention to the desk. One drawer empty...

Max tries another drawer, and finds this one locked.

Teeth gritted against the pain, Max delivers a final KICK.

The drawer front shatters and collapses.       Max reaches inside.

More official, somehow. Max flips through one at random...

`GREEN, OWEN A.'       Not a mug shot, but a military ID photo.

M

A

Out in the hall, the crowd of detectives seems to grow

larger, the POUNDING on the door becoming more severe.

T

frantically spilling the contents onto the floor...

Michelle's face.

Max's eyes go wide.

Another photograph of Michelle.

Shaking, Max's hands dig deeper...

An impact sends CRACKS splitting up the length of the door...

HOMICIDE OFFICE

Two detectives throw their shoulders into the door. The rest

crowd around them, foaming at the mouth to get inside to Max.

One more lunge...

The door SHATTERS, sending the detectives tumbling inside...

ALEX'S OFFICE

Photos and documents are scattered across the floor, over

Alex's desk, mixed in with the fragments of the broken desk.

From an open window, the storm's first flurries drift inside.

Max is gone.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

The snowfall has picked up, flurries giving way to thick

heavy flakes already sticking to the sidewalk. Max leans

into the stinging wind, lost in the night's revelations.

Hax slows abruptly, looking back at the street behind him...

cars. The streetlights seem to carry less in the snow.

A FIGURE walks down the opposite sidewalk. With heavy snow

filling the space between them, it's hard to make out much...

...but there's something flowing out from the figure's back.

T

Max turns back to the sidewalk ahead, jaw clenching...

ALLEY

Abruptly, Max's ducks into the mouth of alley. Back pressed

to the cold brick, he draws his pistol and CHAMBERS a round.

Unseen by Max, something moves in the shadows behind him...

long black shadows billow from the Figure's shoulders...

Max backs away from the corner, deeper into the dark alley

where three SHAPES are surging forward to meet him...

Max dodges, but his pistol's KNOCKED to the pavement. Max

stumbles, bringing up his guard. The Man charges again. Max

sidesteps, grabbing an arm as he does, SNAPPING the bone...

O

wind. The Figure steps into the street, towards the alley...

Max is jumped from all sides, opponents finally coordinating

to overwhelm him. The Figure steps out of the wind...

...and what seemed to be wings turns out to be a long coat.

Mona Sax moves closer, opening that coat to reveal a thick

metal chain. Max GROWLS as arms pull him upright.

Mona whips the chain into Max's face, CLANKING as it strikes

bone. Instantly, blood begins streaming from his mouth...

The chain CRACKS again, Max's teeth rattling from the blow.

Mona HITS Max again, this time in the shins.    Max CRIES OUT.

Slowly at first, Mona WHIRLS the chain into a larger loop...

M

Mona whips the chain faster, CUTTING the air...thinking...

Gasping at the pain, Max slowly straightens up again.

Mona lets the chain's speed gradually slow again.

Mona drops the chain with a CLANK.

She motions for her men to haul Max to his feet.

INT. OWEN'S BUILDING - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Mona and Max storm down a dim apartment hallway in tense

silence. Max wipes the blood from the cuts on his face.

Mona lets her coat fall open, revealing a machine gun.

Mona flashes Max a look before POUNDING on a door.

A louder, longer KNOCK.

A muted SCREAM filters through the door, cutting her short.

Max DRIVES his boot into the door, splintering the jam...

INT. OWEN'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Max and Mona rush into the room, breath smoking from the

cold. All of the windows are open. Gusts of snow blow

inside, drifts of white powder extending into the room...

He SCREAMS his response from the next room.    They rush...

LIVING ROOM

...through the door, weapons drawn.    Both stop short:

OWEN GREEN is all alone in the room. SCREAMING, swatting at

empty air around him, each limb moving a different direction.

M

Owen's feet slip over the snow, toes curling desperately on

the ice, searching for traction as they slide closer...

...to an open window on the other side of the room.

.

He doesn't seem to hear - sweat streams down his terrified

face, snowflakes frosting the perspiration on his chest.

Owen's eyes are instead drawn through the open windows...

Oblivious to the shapes outside, Max and Mona watch Owen's

terror intensify, his dervish dance growing more frantic...

Outside every window, BLACK SHAPES float closer in the air

above the street - vaguely human, long wings POUNDING...

...sending gusts of wind ripping through the windows, kicking

up snow and ice. Max and Mona shrink back, shielding their

eyes at the blast as Owen's tortured SCREAMS fill the room...

Twisting like he's trying to pull free from invisible hands,

Owen reaches the window. As if trying to push back, his

hands and feet fly up to the trim around the window...

Unable to turn around, Owen's eyes find the reflected images

of Max and Mona in the window he's being pulled to...

H

glass by the spectres looming beyond it outside. Their claws

reach in, raking his body, pulling him closer...

Realizing that Owen isn't stopping, Max rushes towards him.

Max lunges forward, trying in vain to cover yards...

...when Owen only has inches.    He's ripped into the void...

EXT. OWEN'S BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Max throws himself forward into the window, looking down...

...where Owen falls, looking up at Max helplessly...

... then less terrified, as the wind keeps RUSHING past...

...and then, just before impact, relieved.

Owen CRASHES into the sidewalk.

B

Mona races up to join Max in the window. For a stunned beat

they look down at the shattered body of Owen Green - his

unblinking eyes frozen on the heavens, collecting snowflakes.

No answer, Max studies Owen's twisted body. Long, finger-

like bruises trace out from his neck, blending with the

tattoos that lace his grey skin. Grinning skulls, the USMC

eagle/globe/anchor...

...and a pair of wings, just like Natasha's.

I

Max drops a Polaroid of Owen's tattoo onto a glass counter.

floor, the air of the small room glowing like the ocean. A

mirrored ceiling repeats the tattoo parlor again above.

An elderly TATTOO ARTIST moves up behind the counter.

Max slides the photograph across to the Tattoo Artist.

The Artist stoops closer, tensing when he sees the design.

Mona leans over the counter, locking onto the Artist's eyes.

As encouragement, Mona lets her coat open to reveal her gun.

T

reference library. He searches through dusty volumes...

Just past the shelves, a doorway is cracked open. A young

APPRENTICE artist hovers in the dark and listens in on the

conversation unnoticed - sweating, his pupils drawing back...

Returning with a book, the Artist finds the page: a winged

woman led by a pack of wolves over a grizzly battlefield.

Nodding, Mona lets her gun drift away from the Artist.

Mona turns to leave, satisfied, but Max is stuck on the book -

the valkyrie's empty eyes, bloody bodies at her feet...

I

Suddenly, all the lights go out.

T

Out of the corner of his eye, Max sees a DARKER SHADOW race

across the room towards them, almost too fast to be human...

Max and Mona have time to duck; the Artist isn't so lucky. A

CRACK of bone, the old man's skull taking the brutal force...

Mona's weapon BARKS, a short burst RIPPING through the air.

The bat CUTS through the air, SMASHING open glass pipes in

the wall behind Max, the shards raining down over him...

The Figure charges at Max again.   Max's pistol CRACKS.

The room is abruptly silent.

The lights flash on.   Mona steps out of the back room...

Max is stunned to find himself standing over nothing more

monstrous than the Apprentice - one hand over the hole in his

chest, the other weakly swinging a shard of glass at Max.

Max shakes his head, struck mute by the look in the dying

man's eyes.

INT. MAX'S CAR - NIGHT

Max pushes the car over slick streets, clothes covered in the

Artist's blood. Lost in thought, Mona looks out the window.

M

EXT. RAGNA ROK - DUSK

In a block of abandoned storefronts, only one retains a spark

of life, its red sign burning in the dying light: RAGNA ROK.

T

that sign and the sounds of DARK MUSIC filtering from inside.

INT. MAX'S CAR - DUSK

Max's car turns onto the block, slowly approaching Ragna Rok.

Max and Mona silently absorb the scene on the street. Even

from halfway down the block, BASS from the club reaches them.

Across the street, Max watches someone dragging a limp body

by one leg. Nobody he walks past seems to notice.

Max keeps his speed slow, idling away up the block.

Ragna Rok recedes in the mirror, the block between it and the

car studded with more smoldering cars and dead-eye faces,

their numbers seeming to grow even as Mona watches.

Max doesn't answer, the coming plague before him registering.

Mona glances up at a passing street sign - "LITTLE ITALY."

Mona opens her car door and climbs out, leaning back inside.

Mona SLAMS the door and moves off down the sidewalk, blending

into the crowd. Max drops the car into gear, giving one last

glance to Ragna Rok before pulling away.

T

U

EXT. RAGNA ROK - ROOFTOP - DUSK

Perched at the edge of the roof, a figure CHANTS along...

Jack Lupino - the tattooed face we caught   a glimpse of in the

candle light of Trevor's party, now fully   visible in the

failing sun and no less frightening. His    colorless eyes

absorb the street, the SCREAMS, Max's car   pulling away...

On his back, the tattoos of two elaborate black wings. Steam

rises from ink-blackened skin, snow melting before it lands.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Max sits in his chair in the silent room, turning the pages

of Michelle's book. There's more than grief on his cut and

bruised face tonight, hands not trembling the way they were.

Fruit bowls, delicate charcoal nudes flip past...

Frustrated, Max lets the images drift by with less sentiment:

images no longer speaking to the questions he needs answered.

With an exasperated sigh, Max slams the book closed...

A faint white sliver appears in the cover.

T

Max leans closer. It's the corner of a piece of paper,

protruding from a razor-thin cut in the spine of the

sketchbook, invisible under all but the closest inspection.

Max runs his thumbnail into the gap, spreading glue CRACKLING

- he flinches, almost afraid to cause the book pain.

F

memento and to see what's hidden inside. A deep breath...

With a sharp pull, the cover of the book SHEARS away.

The pages wad and wrinkle, old paint flaking off. The cover

he'd caressed RIPS. Fluttering to the floor, a sheaf of

yellowed pages hidden in the cover flutter to the floor.

Max opens the folded pages. The first is nearly identical to

what we saw inside: a bouquet of flowers, unfinished. Max

scrutinizes the pencil strokes...suddenly, his eyes go wide:

A little pair of bat-like wings. In the corner of the page,

having nothing to do with the rest of the still life.

Max turns to the next page. There's a another drawing of

wings - larger this time, pencil strokes more energetic.

Horrified by what he's seeing, Max's hands tremble as they

turn the page. On the next, the wings are the main drawing.

On the next, they're scrawled in smeared ink.

The wings begin to lose their shape, overlapping.

Growing together.

The last page is completely black.

INT. COP BAR - NIGHT

Even with everybody out of uniform, the builds and body

language mark this as a cop bar. BB rushes inside, hair

giving him away as having been asleep shortly before.

snow. BB looks at the BARTENDER, who motions to the back...

BACK BOOTH

BB fights his way to a corner booth, where Max is slumped

over a beer and a shot. A matching set wait for BB across

the table. BB pulls off his coat and sits, forced casual.

B            could only happen in here.

For a long beat, Max works up the nerve to speak.

BB tries to nod his understanding, but concern creeps in.

M

B

thick money clip and overpays before following...

EXT. COP BAR - NIGHT

BB rushes out, struggling to keep up with Max's longer legs.

Max nods, but keeps moving away from BB.

Max crosses against the light, cutting through the driving

snow. BB tries to follow, but traffic pushes him back.

H

Max fade away. After a moment, he pulls something out...

A business card: `J. BRAVURA, I.A.'

EXT. TRAIN PLATFORM - NIGHT

In a ticket booth, an elderly ATTENDANT shivers by a space

heater, ticket windows plugged with make-shift insulation.

The attendant looks up from his book and sees Max approaching

through the snow. Max slows as he gets closer, looking up at

the glowing threshold to the trains beyond. He stops.

Max holds for a moment. For all the danger he's faced, this

is the most hesitation we've seen from him so far.

Max takes a step into the light of the ticket booth. The

attendant opens the ticket slot, letting a gust of freezing

air blow inside. Max slides a few bills through.

Ticket in hand, Max starts his solitary march to the trains.

INT. GOGNITTI'S HOTEL - BAR - NIGHT

A

hotel. It's nearly empty, only the dedicated DRUNKS

venturing out in the storm. The front door swings open...

The old men shiver at the stiff blast of wind rushing in,

turning to look. Napkins flutter. Snowflakes blow inside.

From a booth in the corner, VINNIE GOGNITTI (50s, pudgy)

shoots a hard look at the open door, not immediately

recognizing the SILHOUETTE in the passage...

Mona steps inside, boots heavy with ice. Her MEN follow.

Flanked by MEN of his own, Vinnie freezes when he sees Mona.

Gradually, Vinnie and his men relax.

BACK OFFICE

They've packed into a tiny back office - Russian gunmen on

one side of the desk, Italians on the other. Mona and Vinnie

represent their different sides, the only people seated.

V

Mona looks Vinnie over, bored to death by the whole thing.

Mona frowns, her wishes granted a little too easily.

E

M

EXT. SUBURBAN TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

The platform is cleaner than the ones in the city - dressed

up for the tastes of the COMMUTERS who step off of the train.

Max threads his way through the handful of exhausted

BUSINESSMEN arriving home, moving out into the darkness.

EXT. SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

The snow's driving just as hard out here, but peaceful houses

with warm windows glowing make the storm feel comforting. In

the yards, forgotten sleds disappear under new powder, gone

for good by morning. Snowmen distort as they swell.

Max Payne trudges up the center of the street, a black streak

spoiling the peace of the evening. A trespasser.

T

One house on the block stands out: there's no neatly shoveled

driveway, no colorful Christmas lights flashing from the

eaves. A black void behind every window, no life inside.

A row of footprints lead around back.

G

Hanging in the overgrown hedges, an overlooked scrap of

yellow police tape shimmers in the wind.

Max stands at the back door. He touches the unpainted wood

around the glass, repairs never fully complete.

Max reaches for the handle...hesitant to actually touch...

INT. HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON (FLASHBACK)

A living room in the stillness of evening, golden air packed

like amber around baby bottles and toys on the coffee table.

The front door opens, and a man steps inside...

Max Payne, different in every way: the malnourishment and

neglect gone from his face, a fullness in his frame from

M

regular home-cooked meals. Shave and a haircut. Nice suit.

KITCHEN

Tie loosened, Max gets a beer from the fridge. Unwinding, he

takes a long sip and begins sorting through the mail.

Glass smashed.    Blinds torn.   Standing open.

STAIRWAY

Max charges upstairs.    MEN'S VOICES echo down from above.

His eyes aren't hard yet. Rushing up the stairs, we see

Max's faith in the world start to crack for the first time...

HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Max turns the corner into a hallway bathed in golden

afternoon light, the same one he saw in the river...

Between Max and the end of the hall, two JUNKIES are huddled

against a door. Twisting the handle, SMACKING the wood.

Max pulls a pistol from a low-pro holster, stepping forward.

The Junkies turn to Max, eyes black and glassy.    Sick smiles.

Without a word, the Junkies charge.

Max takes aim and BLASTS one of them in the forehead. The

M

other keeps rushing, swinging a long knife at Max's neck.

throat. The swing throws the thin man off balance...

He tries again - ropy muscles straining skin speckled with

tracks. Max grabs his arm, throwing the thin man off

balance. They go down to the hardwood floor together.

Too close to line up a shot, Max drives the butt of the

pistol into the man's nose, SPLITTING it across the bridge.

Blood spatters his gaunt face, but those eyes never change...

Straining, he moves the knife's tip closer to Max's belly...

Max jams the barrel under the Junkie's leering jaw and PULLS

THE TRIGGER. Blood atomizes into a hanging cloud around him.

Max jumps up and races to the door.    Locked from the inside.

Max throws his shoulder into the door, SNAPPING the hinges...

T

M

BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The momentum sends Max tumbling inside...

A MAN slips out of the window, one leg still inside...

Curtains billow in front of the open window, a summer sunset

outside. Max lets the gun fall to his side, breathing hard.

M

Max rushes over to her, reaching out to touch her shoulder.

Her mouth is wide open, eyes unfocused.    Muscles slack.

Michelle's not stunned.    She's not unconscious.

The moment that hits him, the lights go out of Max's eyes.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Max stands at the door, seeing the room with those same eyes.

The furniture is gone, all the carpet ripped out. One window

is still open, no frilly curtains blocking the blackness

outside. Snow gusts in, piling on the sill.

Slowly marching across the room, Max SLAMS the window shut.

INT. ASGARD BUILDING - BB'S OFFICE - NIGHT

BB stands in the window, watching the storm.

Bravura sits in front of the desk, watching BB. When BB

finally looks over, the weight of the story showing in his

eyes, Bravura's face B

Not expecting this turn in the conversation, Bravura sits up.

T

B

Bravura nods, reeling from the revelation of this new

information. BB picks up his coat and starts for the door.

Bravura stands, finishing a note.

EXT. STORAGE SPACE - NIGHT

At the edge of a strip mall, a ramshackle personal storage

business sits behind a razor-wire fence. Inside the fence,

rows of stalls for rent, covered by metal garage doors.

the fence. He moves through the rows, reading the numbers.

A padlock hangs from the door, shining metal glazed over with

a sheet of ice. Max finds a pristine key on a ring in his

pocket. Hands shaking, he cracks the ice and tries...

I

The garage door raises, cold metal RATTLING as it rolls up.

Max stands silhouetted in the doorway, looking in on ragged

stacks of cardboard boxes. His breath blooming around him.

`

T

W

Max steps inside, pulling a box marked `GARAGE' out into the

light. Opening it, he roots around and finds a flashlight.

Switched on, a golden beam cuts through the blue shadows.

Max walks deeper into the space, brushing the light over the

boxes. He holds his hand over one, as if warming it...

Max opens the box.

at Max from inside the box. Silly grin, frozen eyes shining.

Hands trembling, Max pushes the toy aside. Deeper in the

box, he finds a framed picture and pulls it into the light...

The photograph is of Max - younger, cleaner, genuinely

smiling. Posed along with him, Olan Mills-style, are

Elizabeth and the baby. Gauzy backdrop, church clothes.

Max studies it, haggard new face reflecting in the glass...

Abruptly, Max jumps up and moves away from the box. Long

strides, trying in vain to physically shake the memories, to

block out the emotions with something productive...

The flashlight beam keeps sweeping, deeper and deeper. Max

chokes back tears, occasionally glancing at the baby box.

Max rushes over, nearly tipping the other boxes in his hurry

to throw the lid off the document box. Rows of folders, all

M

neatly labeled with feminine script.

year numbered -- `1998,' `1999,' `2000'...

Max's fingers skim to the last file in the box, marked

`2004.' Much thinner than the others. Her last year.

Only one file in the final section. Max opens it, finding

pages of handwritten notes, photocopies, drawings...

Closing the file, he checks the name on the tab and frowns.

T

EXT. STORAGE SPACE - NIGHT

Max steps out of the storage locker. He tucks the manila

folder inside his coat and pulls the metal door closed.

He starts away, retracing his steps to the fence. Mind

reeling with what he's just seen, the memories flooding back--

There's a second set of footprints in the snow before him.

Max freezes, their significance immediately registering.

A YOUNG COP steps out of the shadows behind Max, pistol

trained on the back of his head. The cop's eyes are wide

with panic. He assumes an awkward, textbook firing position.

Max studies the cop - stiff legs unsteady on the deep snow,

his frostbitten fingers wrapped around the trigger. Trapped

between two rows of locked doors, Max has no cover to run.

Peeking through the snow at Max's feet, an extension cord

snakes under the shivering cop's legs and down the corridor.

T

Max starts to lay down, causally laying his hand over the

power cord. The cop edges closer, smirking as Max complies.

Max wraps his hand around the cord and whips it tight...

The cop pitches backward, squeezing off a SHOT as he falls.

Before he can fire again, Max pounces on the cop, driving a

T

knee into his chest and wrenching the pistol away.

Max DRIVES the butt of the pistol into the side of his head.

and lets the gun fall in the snow beside the unconscious cop.

Struggling to his feet, Max races down the corridor and

scaling the icy chain link. He drops into the snow,

immediately breaking into a dead run on the other side.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

An express elevator HISSES upwards at great speed, the sleek

interior like a European sports car. Alone inside, Jason

Colvin watches the blur of numbers with dread.

A muted CHIME, and the doors draw back...

INT. AESIR SKYSCRAPER - PENTHOUSE OFFICE - NIGHT

Thin steel beams loft through the air, three stories of open

air encased by glass, a silent void projected into the heart

of the storm. In the center of the room, a single black bar.

It's a desk, obsidian, polished to a mirrored sheen. Aesir

International's cool blue logo reflects across its surface.

Jason Colvin approaches the desk, nervously watching the

shadowed figure of Nicole Horne read through a document.

Every hair, every stitch of clothing perfect.

F

O

M

`

N

passing through him. With great effort, she smiles.

INT. TRAIN - NIGHT

Max slumps in his seat, watching the black sky whip past.

The manila folder closed in his hands, fingers tracing the

edges. Slowly, carefully, he lets the folder fall open.

Max's eyes skim across the handwritten notes, lingering over

underscored phrases and circled words. Drinking it in.

On the next page, a sketch of black wings pulls Max's

attention. With dread, he reads a note below the drawing:

The hypnotic motion of the train begins to change, the rhythm

of the RAILS faltering a little.

style, each version surrounded by descriptive notes...

Max skims, excited, as the train's HICCUPS grow worse...

As the blue and black world sweeps past outside the window,

Max's face softens almost into a smile...

All the lights go out.    The train rapidly loses speed...

S

life as the passengers' eyes adjust to the dark car...

snow, covering the embankments along the railroad tracks and

the broken-down houses in the distance.

The darkness changes Max, too, hardening his face again. He

tucks the folder safely into his coat and zips it up tight.

At the front of the car, the windows begin to fill with

light. The door opens, a flashlight beam sweeps inside...

Pistol between his knees, Max pulls the hammer back...

C

An obese CONDUCTOR (40s) steps inside. Immediately, all of

the other passengers begin to QUESTION HIM at once.

Movement outside catches Max's eye. A FIGURE in the shadows

alongside the train. Gravel CRUNCHES. Voices WHISPER.

M

window, watching for more movement outside...

Suddenly, the Figure breaks in the opposite direction - no

attempt at quiet, a POUNDING run away from the train.

THREE MORE FIGURES, running in the opposite direction.    Away

from the train, up the snowy tracks it's yet to cross.

PASSENGERS fill the aisle. High school girls sneaking into

the city... An old man going to work... Drunk yuppies in red

and green scarves, on their way back from a Holiday party...

An EXPLOSION rips through the front of the car and swells, a

ball of fire smashing through the car and blowing it apart...

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

Up and down the dark street, shadowed GHOULS break windows

and claw at abandoned cars, searching for anything of value.

F

W

M

Moving comfortably through the shadows, Mona follows the

general movement towards a BASSY QUAKE farther up the block.

A red neon `RAGNA ROK' bloodies the snow in the air, marking

the entrance to the club responsible for the RUMBLE...

I

Inside, that music is EARSPLITTING - a jet engine at 200

beats per minute. Lights strobe past red gels, frozen

glimpses of thin limbs and black pupils on the dance floor.

in nice clothes - queue at a metal door in the back wall.

One after another, they wait for their moment to enter...

There's a disturbance at the front door. Black-clad Guards

force open a rift in the crowd on the dance floor...

Jack Lupino walks inside the rift - his tattooed face red and

black, eyes calmly sweeping out across the riotous crowd...

Lupino moves through bodies roiling like a parted sea, sheer

walls of twisting flesh towering above him to the rafters.

Mixed within, the wings POUND and SWEEP, blotting the light.

Hell.

INT. BB'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

BB crawls out from under the quilts, careful not to wake his

WIFE. He passes windows frosted with ice, on his way to...

HALLWAY

BB shuffles down the hall, shivering in his boxers. He

pauses at the thermostat, frowning to find the heat cut off.

B

stiff with pain, clothes dripping icy water across the floor.

Max opens his coat and pulls out the file, now badly wrinkled

and soggy. He opens it and hands BB a newspaper clipping.

`25 CIVILIANS KILLED IN AL-HASAMAH MASSACRE'

BB reads on, frowning.

BB looks up, startled, as Max pages through Michelle's notes.

Slowly, BB turns to show Max the grief in his eyes.

BB hesitates, rattled by the rage in Max's eyes.

Max barely nods, jaw clenched as he scoops up the documents.

Thinking for a moment, Max sets the folder down again and

turns away towards the dark hallway. BB picks up the folder.

Max doesn't respond, storming off into the shadows.

EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - DAWN

The snow isn't deep near the charred and twisted metal of the

train, melted by the fireball. Police tape rings the area.

D

coffee. Out on the tracks, Bravura works alone.

None of the detectives want to encourage him by answering.

Bravura nods at the explanation, but without conviction.       He

continues to scan the wreckage, still not satisfied...

The Young Cop from the storage building slips down the snowy

bank and towards Bravura. His face is bruised and swollen.

Bravura sees the Young Cop aware of the detective's presence.

E

Bravura and the Young Cop stand on the spot where he fought

Max the night before - disturbed snow, the frayed cord...

A

Bravura nods at the bullshit, focus drawn to Max's locker.

When the Young Cop nods, Bravura starts to step inside.

INT. MAX'S STORAGE LOCKER - MORNING

A few CSI TECHS take photographs of Max's storage locker.

Bravura walks through, eyes quickly scanning the distracting

jumble of boxes. The Homicide Cop follows, exasperated.

lid of the box, `OFFICE' written in Michelle's pen.

Bravura looks around. There's no document box to match the

lid. However, there are dust-free rectangles in the dirt.

On a mission, Bravura scans the rest of the room. He sees

another open box, a colorful stuffed animal peeking out.

Bravura opens it, startled by the family portrait.

Bravura finally looks up to see the Homicide cop smirking.

Bravura charges closer, carrying enough force that the much

larger Homicide Cop steps back. His cool facade crumbles.

EXT. AESIR BUILDING (MIDTOWN) - DAY

The city is starting to shut down under the relentless snow -

the sidewalks are nearly empty, only cabs on the icy streets.

The Aesir corporate offices gleam in the diffuse light, a

pillar of glass and steel disappearing up into the storm...

R

Jason Colvin steps out of a cab and marches up the steps.

Stepping off of the elevator, Colvin passes a RECEPTIONIST.

COLVIN'S OFFICE

Colvin steps through the doorway and stops short.

Max stands behind Colvin's desk, inspecting the photographs

hanging on the wall. He's cleaned himself up a little.

For reasons Colvin can't fathom, Max's mood seems to darken

even farther. Colvin sees the badge clipped to his belt.

Barely keeping his poker face, Colvin eyes the phone.

Max motions for Colvin to go ahead. While the executive's

shaking hands dial the number, Max closes and LOCKS the door.

Abruptly, Max RIPS the phone cord out of the wall.

The words, Max's flat delivery, catch Colvin like ice water.

Still holding the dead receiver, Colvin staggers back...

What color there was to begin with drains out of Colvin.

Max throws his elbow up, CRUSHING Colvin's nose.

INT. AESIR BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY

Bravura enters the soaring lobby of the Aesir building,

stomping his shoes clean. He approaches the front desk.

COLVIN'S OFFICE

Colvin's eyes flutter open.   His nose is smashed flat.

He's being held upright by his belt, which loops around his

neck and the headrest of his ergonomic chair. His wrists are

bound to the armrests with strips of his tie.

Max sits on the edge of the desk, heavy lamp in his hand.

Max wraps the cord in his hand and jerks it free from the

lamp, which he tosses with a CRASH. The cord, he keeps.

Max strips back the insulation on the cord, exposing two

frizzed bundles of wire: one brass, the other silver.

Positive and negative. Colvin watches, apprehensive.

T

Max plugs in the cord.

He crouches by Colvin, wire in each hand, moving them closer.

Colvin struggles to pull away from the approaching wires...

Max brushes the bare wires against Colvin's throat.

A timid KNOCKING starts on Colvin's door, VOICES calling in.

Max waits for more, eyes frozen, wires hanging ready.

Max picks up a cup of coffee from the desk and pours it over

Colvin's face as he struggles more frantically.

C

Max brings the wires closer to Colvin's wet skin.

Max's eyes thaw, hit by the first true words about her death.

LOBBY

Bravura sits in the lobby, impatiently skimming a magazine.

On the far side of the enormous room, movement draws his eye:

A line of black-clad SECURITY GUARDS swiftly moving in

formation into a stairwell. SWAT precision, heavy hardware.

Bravura springs up, approaching the Guards left at the door.

Bravura pulls out his badge, and plans to keep moving...

But the guards don't immediately part. They look at each

other, silently conferring. Bravura's eyes light up.

Max lets the wires fall away.   Solemnly, he draws his pistol.

Max chambers a round, leaving his hand up to block the spray.

F

Colvin looks up, Max's words suddenly scarier than the gun.

Max shakes his head.    Colvin's eyes show real terror.

The POUNDING outside the door is louder, more VOICES calling.

Max turns to the door - trapped, ready to fire on what comes

through. Colvin looks at Max, a sudden realization dawning.

Colvin begins to struggle harder than ever, but his fear

isn't directed at the man with the gun standing over him.

the door. A small stack of DVDs sits inside.

Max looks at the middle manager, desire to pull the trigger

slowly losing out to the credibility of Colvin's story.

Max unfastens the belt, using it to hoist Colvin to his feet.

HALLWAY

OFFICE WORKERS draw back and GASP as Colvin's bloody face

appears. Max is close behind, holding the belt around

Colvin's neck, pressing his pistol to the back of his head.

There's a disturbance at the back of the crowd - glimpses of

black uniforms fighting forward. The Guards.

Max pivots, holding Colvin towards the Guards as a shield.

CRACK!    Colvin's head snaps back, blood spraying over Max.

T

More SHOTS ring out, ripping through Colvin as Max lets his

lifeless body fall and hides his retreat in the scramble...

The Guards chase after Max, slowed by the panicking crowd...

STAIRWELL

Exhausted, Bravura plods up steps to a landing. Suddenly,

AUTOMATIC WEAPONS erupt nearby. He fumbles for a cell phone.

M

Bravura snaps his phone shut, trying to regulate his breath.

Drawing a tiny service revolver he creeps to the door...

HALLWAY

Max stumbles up the hall. He chances a look back at the

black-clad GUARDS crashing through office workers...

A BURST of machine gun fire POUNDS the floor in front of

Max's feet. More Guards seal off the hall ahead. Nowhere

else to go, Max grips a cubicle wall and vaults over...

M

dropping Guards who've lost sight of him as he jumps from

desk to desk, working deeper into the maze of cubicles...

The fastest Guards race ahead to block off a burning `EXIT'

sign. Max's boots THUNDER across desks, papers flying...

The Guards ahead FIRE, but Max shows now sign of slowing.

Overhead lights EXPLODE, smoke and sparks raining down...

Max launches himself into the air, pistol CRACKING as he

falls. Bullets RIP through the retreating Guards...

Max hits the ground hard, scrambling through the exit...

ANOTHER HALL

...and around the corner.

Max slides to a stop, startled to see Bravura aiming at him.

While he doesn't exactly comply, Max does lower the barrel.

`

S

A

.

G

Bullets STRAFE the wall just above Max's head. He dives to

the ground, plaster dust and smoke pluming above him.

W

waving his badge in the air above him.

takes a split second for Bravura to realize they aren't

stopping. He slips, tumbling back as bullets RIP past him...

Finally, the machine guns go quiet. Smoldering gunpowder

clouds the hallway. Bravura and the Guards search...

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Mona struggles up a narrow street, buffeted by the wind.

Ahead, flashing blue and red lights electrify the snow.

shadows. Mona ducks her head away as the spotlight finds her

at her building door. For a moment, she's in a whiteout.

but the lock has already been forced open.

INT. MONA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Mona steps inside, ready for ambush.    She turns the corner...

Max sits on her couch, scraped and scorched from his escape.

ON SCREEN:

Over black, the Aesir corporate logo flashes up, quickly

replaced by a simple block-letter title card:

S

S

O

O

imagery: tanks roaring over sand dunes, missiles ripping

through palace walls, American troops firing machine guns...

A cutting-edge lab, SCIENTISTS working complex machinery.

in uniform. He smiles easily, confident, eyes alert but

maybe a little distant. Something familiar about him...

S

Max studies Lupino's image - thinner, no visible tattoos.

All-American. There's already something in his eyes, though.

As Mona sits back down, Max brushes past her to get his coat.

Max stands up from the couch and starts away. Confused, Mona

tries to follow, but stumbles when something pulls her back:

On screen, Lupino smiles, beads of sweat forming on his face.

Deliberately, Max stops the DVD and cuts off the television.

When Max finally speaks, the sound scrapes out of his throat

like he hasn't used his voice in years:

Mona struggles at the cuff, chain CLANKING but holding.

Max stoops down to pick up Mona's machine gun where it leans

against the base of the couch. Mona THRASHES helplessly.

E

B

I

I

E

Without a look back, Max starts out the door.

The door pulls shut behind him.

The red neon sign is only an ember, muted under caked ice.

silent street, shivering uncontrollably.

Inside, the dance floor is empty. Sitting at the top of the

stairs, another GUARD sleeps, rifle propped beside him.

A room like the inside of a smoker's lung - walls painted

black, haze from candles and whatever else blurring the air.

Jack Lupino sits on the floor surrounded by candles, watching

the flames with manic focus. Two GUARDS stand above him.

I

glass vial. He uses the candle to heat the spoon. Checking

his watch, one of the guards produces a cell phone and dials.

Lupino dips a needle into the spoon, drawing the bubbling

green liquid into the body of the syringe.

The guard stomps his feet, trying in vain to keep some blood

flowing. Blowing in his hands, he looks both ways down a

street that is still just as empty as it has been for hours.

Frozen fingers fumbling with the keys, the Guard opens the

door. Moving the chair just inside the doorway, the guard

settles in the alcove...

L

M

He pulls the door shut. It won't. Something's blocking it.

The guard stands up, opens it wider to build some momentum...

Max stands on the top step.

BACK ROOM

Lupino shoots up, gritted teeth tugging his belt tourniquet

tight. Eyes clinched, beads of sweat already forming.

The muffled BLAST of a machine gun, out on the dance floor.

The Guards surrounding Lupino spring into action.

Lupino lets the belt slip free, a deep SIGH rattling out. He

opens his eyes, just in time for us to see the irises

retracting. Candles shine in the black holes left behind.

The Guards at the door lock and load, moving out...

BALLROOM

Max walks into the ballroom, motionless Guard bleeding out on

the dance floor before him. Gunsmoke hangs in the air...

In that final stillness, Max checks his clip.     Stone-faced.

Thundering BOOTS echo out from the belly of the building.

Doors fly open - Guards racing out from the kitchen on the

first floor, two more from the office CRASHING out upstairs.

BACK ROOM

Lupino and the Guards listen to the SHOOTING grow closer.

Suddenly, the metal door flies open, BANGING at the stop.

With lightning reflexes, THE GUARDS BLAST down the hallway.

flash. Forgotten now, he fades away into the smoke.

The Guards crumble and fall until the room goes SILENT.

M

I

L

U

L

The back room is deeper than the poor light gives away.

Max's boots grind over burned-out candles, occult runes...

Lupino launches out of the darkness at Max.   Before he sees

it coming, Lupino drives a hard punch into Max's skull.

Max stumbles forward, ears ringing from the blow. Lupino

draws a gleaming knife from his boot and springs on Max.

WHISTLING as it cuts through the smoke. He slashes the knife

across Max's thigh, dropping him to the ground.

The blade CLANKS against the barrel, carving deep trenches in

the stock, finally gashing the back of Max's fingers.

Blood rushes from the cuts, loosening Max's grip on the

weapon. Teeth gnashing like an animal, Lupino reaches out

and tries to pull the machine gun out of Max's hands.

Lupino drives his knee into Max's chest. Arm numb from the

stab wound, Max's grip on the gun is slowly overpowered.

Helplessly watching it slip away, Max SCREAMS with rage...

E

Outside, no voice could carry on that raging WIND. TWO

FIGURES walk up the street, closing slowly on Ragna Rok.

Lupino leans over Max, one hand grinding the knife deeper

into his shoulder, the other wrenching the machine gun free.

Max desperately tries to dig his nails into the grip...

Sweat streams down Lupino's face, dripping down onto Max.

Fingernails splitting, Max finally loses hold of the gun.

The sudden shift in momentum pitches Lupino back.

For an instant, they are apart.

S

B

In that instant, Max pulls the knife from his own shoulder

and buries it to the hilt in Lupino's stomach.

Lupino drops the machine gun. Max clamps his hand over

Lupino's throat, using his grip to force the knife deeper.

While Lupino GASPS, eyes wide, Max struggles to his feet.

Lupino looks down at the knife in his stomach.       Fascinated.

Max looks at Lupino - up close, his undyed skin is ashen and

pockmarked, older than his age. Blood drools from his lips.

Lupino's eyes swim around, lost in a fog of drugs and pain.

Lupino's eyes stop swimming.    For a moment, he sees Max.

Lupino's skull explodes.

Max spins towards the hall, but another SHOT rakes across his

shoulder and slings him to the ground. Defenseless, Max can

only lift his eyes to see who's coming to finish it...

As Max reels at the sight of BB, JOE SALLE (50'S) rumbles in.

metal baton and CRACKING it across his skull. With the grace

of an old pro, Salle snaps on a pair of handcuffs.

Max is hauled to his feet - bleeding, cuffed, and trapped.

B

And BB walks right on by.

As Max watches in disbelief, BB paces around the room taking

stock - noting the dead Guards, crouching over Lupino's body.

Max struggles to break free of Salle's grasp.

BB finally does look at Max.    Cold, dead eyes.   A stranger.

EXT. RAGNA ROK - NIGHT

BB steps through the door, over the guard's upturned chair.

The blizzard has won - streets and sidewalks no longer

scraped, cars long abandoned under their icy cocoons. The

fifth largest city in the world, reduced to a ghost town.

well be a desert, white sand sifting around their boots,

buildings rising above like black canyon walls.

Max shuffles along behind BB, head bent low in the wind.

Plumes of his ragged breaths trailing out behind him.

Max keeps trudging, one foot in front of the other. BB looks

annoyed that he's not getting a reaction out of him.

Max's eyes start to burn.     BB sneaks a peek, encouraged.

Max's head snaps up, eyes simmering with rage.     BB smiles.

BB's smile seems to double.     He considers Max for a moment.

Max starts walking again, doesn't raise his eyes. The seed

has been planted, though. BB plays with the silence.

M

F

T

F

FLASHBACK: MAX'S KITCHEN - DUSK

Looking up from the mail, Max sees the smashed kitchen door.

R

Max keeps walking, trying to fight off the memories. BB

strolls along beside him, taking his time with the story.

Max races into the hallway bathed in golden light.

Between Max and the end of the hall, two JUNKIES are huddled

against a door. Twisting the handle, SMACKING the wood.

RESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Max looks nauseous.    BB sees it, thrilled.

Max throws his shoulder into the door, SNAPPING the hinges...

BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

A MAN slips out of the window, one leg still inside...

RESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Max's gait begins to falter, lost in the memory he's played a

thousand times, the images shifting to show something new...

B

S

FLASHBACK: MAX'S BEDROOM - DUSK

Max charges in, again firing on the man escaping...

...but this time, we watch the glass behind the billowing

curtains. The fabric ripples, revealing a reflection...

Alex.

A momentary flash of his profile, a mask of guilt and shame.

RESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Max stops walking.   All of his will gone.

BB steps closer, drinking in the pain in Max's eyes.

With a shrug, BB turns away from Max's fury and moves on...

INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS

Above them, traffic signals strain under thick icicles.

Intermittently, the lights go dark, the power faltering.

Salle closes with Max, meaty hand clamping onto his arm.

BB smiles.

Max's eyes are clear - almost peaceful for the first time.

BB moves closer, the arrogance in his smile deepening.

Suddenly, Max launches himself forward - a fullback's

explosion into the line that catches Salle by surprise...

Hands cuffed behind his back, Max drives his shoulder into

BB's jaw, splitting his lip. BB tumbles back into the snow.

Joe brings the club out again, bashing Max across the head,

using it to choke Max until his struggles lose power.

BB looks around, wiping the blood from his lip. His eyes

fall on a mound of construction rubble in a vacant lot.

BB stands and walks onto the lot, kicking away snow until he

exhumes a cinder block in the rubble pile. BB picks it up.

Carrying the cinder block, BB starts off down a different

street. Grudgingly, Salle pushes Max along after him.

Visible a few blocks away, the black body of the river waits.

H

L

EXT. PIER - NIGHT

An ancient shipping pier juts out into the river, murky water

high and roiling around its pilings from the stormy weather.

B

pier, its planks buried under a thick sheet of ice.

BB drops the cinder block at Max's feet, CRACKING the ice.

Clamping onto Max's arm, BB unlocks his handcuffs.

dying altogether. All down the shore, the power fails.

his coat: two glass vials like Lupino's, filled with the same

green powder. He tucks them into Max's coat pocket.

Max looks at BB, trying to understand how that could be.

Seeing that BB has removed Max's cuffs, Salle hurries over.

The motion puts both men off balance on the slick boards...

Salle grabs Max's arm. Max looks down at Salle's feet, hard-

soled shoes slipping. Salle anticipates his next thought...

Abruptly, Max jerks his arm away.

Not able to let go in time, Salle's feet fly out from under

him. The big man crashes down hard on his side.

Max ducks and stumbles forward...

BB FIRES, missing. Max looks back. Beached on his side, Joe

Salle draws his pistol, the next shot coming any moment...

Max slips. Struggling to right himself, hands scraping over

rough planks, another shot CRACKS inches from Max's legs...

With nowhere else to go, Max turns to the water. Boots

slipping, he lunges for the edge, careening over...

RIVER - CONTINUOUS

Max SPLASHES down into the dark water, body twisted in an

awkward position, wind blasted from his lungs by the impact.

SHOTS from the pier above CUT into the water around him...

Max dives under as much as he can stand it in the frigid

water, swimming farther from shore. Shots continuing to

SPLASH around him, the current pulls him into deeper water...

P

BB and Salle FIRE with less conviction. In the water, the

disturbance made by Max grows smaller as he's swept away.

BB lowers his gun, motioning for Salle to do the same.

Salle frowns, shoots BB a look.

RIVER

Max lifts his head. The wide expanse of the river stretches

around him, surface broken by swirling pocks of falling snow.

The current caries him farther from piers and buildings

receding into snow, as black as the water they rise above.

Turning, Max sees that the opposite shore is even farther.

Slowly, the exhilaration of escape begins to change. Icy

water bites his skin. Muscles beginning to tremble...

Limbs heavy with saturated clothing, joints seized by cold,

Max tries to swim against the current with little success.

Max sinks lower, churning water lapping his face.    GASPING

BREATHS becoming SPUTTERING COUGHS...

INT. HALLWAY - TWILIGHT (VISION)

Max moves down the hallway, the familiar golden light.    Boots

A

stepping quiet, past the bloody and motionless bodies.

Michelle's body faces away, bundle cradled in her arms.

As Max stands watching, Michelle's body stirs...

EXT. RIVER - NIGHT

Max breaks the surface: COUGHING, GASPING, flailing his arms.

It's hopeless; he immediately begins to sink again.

Desperation, panic move his limbs, but for nothing.

Max Payne slips under without so much as a ripple.

INT. HALLWAY - TWILIGHT (VISION)

Tentatively, Max crosses the threshold into the bedroom.

Michelle's eyes open, aware that she's being watched from the

doorway. She looks up at Max, a lazy smile forming.

The bundle of blankets stirs. Michelle grins down at their

infant daughter, offering her finger to the tiny pink hand.

Max edges closer, overwhelmed by the sight. Michelle pats

the bed beside them, inviting Max to sit. He doesn't move.

M

For a long moment, Max drinks in the sight of his family...

EXT. RIVER - PRE-DAWN

Out in the middle of the river, the white curtain of blowing

snow parts to reveal a dark shape, drifting in the fog. Like

an island in the black water, a small boat bobs in place...

T

weather while talking into a two-way radio. Faintly visible

around him, larger ships are outlined by twinkling lights.

A THUD against the hull of the ship; something in the water.

The Captain leans over the gunwale. A body floats below the

surface, BUMPING as it bobs in the wake.

The Captain swings a gaff, SPLASHING and glancing the sharp

hook across the body. He tries again, a solid hit...

A hand breaks the surface, weakly grabbing the pole.

EXT. DOCK - NIGHT

The boat barrels out of the fog, moving too fast towards the

pier. The Captain and his FIRST MATE crouch over Max.

He's blue-gray, shivering violently, tiny puffs of breath...

The boat tries to ease into the dock, but is moving too fast:

it CRASHES against the pilings. The gathered CROWD SHOUTS.

The Captain and Mate lift Max's rigid body up to the pier.

People start to inspect his cut and battered body.

Catatonic to this point, Max suddenly tries to shake his

head. He attempts to sit up, but hands force him down.

Powerless, Max's eyes desperately look around, searching...

Hand shaking violently, Max reaches inside his coat and pulls

out the vials BB planted. Trembling, he flips the caps away.

With everything he has, Max opens his chattering jaws and

dumps the green-tinged powder into his mouth.

The dust on Max's lips liquefies.    His trembling grows worse.

The crowd parts, and a MAN rushes up with blankets.       He

kneels down over Max, whose body keeps shaking.

The captain touches Max's skin, jerking away in shock.

Max pushes their hands away, his strength suddenly regained.

Unsteadily, Max climbs to his feet. The crowd pulls away.

Max wobbles up the planks, the snow fall not quite as hard as

it had been when he went into the water.

Max's gait grows more steady, each step forcefully forward...

One by one, the flakes become burning embers drifting from

the sky. Max marches ahead, bits of fire raining over him.

INT. POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

A exhausted man in the uniform of a GUARD slumps in an

interrogation room. Bravura paces the floor, grilling him.

Before the Guard can answer, the door flies open. Without a

word, the RANKING OFFICER summons Bravura into the hall...

HALLWAY

...where a row of more GUARDS are handcuffed to a bench.

From the bench, Bravura sees the smirks from the Guards.

At the far end of the hall, a group of serious-looking men in

DARK SUITS file out of the elevator. Bravura cracks a smile.

The Suits get closer, revealing badges on their belts.   FBI.

The Ranking Officer and the Agent shake hands.    Icy.

Standing in the doorway of an office down the hall, a

DETECTIVE shrinks back to his desk and picks up the phone.

EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - NIGHT

With dead streetlights, the hulking black shape of the Asgard

building looms like a mountain at the end of the block.

they dry from the heat of his skin. Sweat beads on his face.

Max enters Asgard's courtyard, the Gothic facade rising high

above. He passes through its security lights, shadow casting

down onto the clean white snow like a projection screen...

Invisible to the naked eye, more shadows of winged shapes

dart and swoop in the air above Max's outline on the snow.

INT. ASGARD BUILDING - BB'S OFFICE - NIGHT

BB POUNDS the receiver down onto the phone, CRACKING the

base. Joe Salle watches him angrily pulling on his coat.

BB storms for the door, surprised to turn back and see that

Salle hasn't followed him. The big man scowls, nervous.

ENTRY HALL

BB and Salle storm down the steps into the main entry hall.

Salle grabs BB by the arm.

On the floor between them and the front door, two guards

sprawl face-down in enormous pools of their own blood.

At that moment, they both see movement in the shadows...

Max steps forward into the light - soaked in blood up to his

elbows, eyes black and animalistic. No longer himself.

Max raises one of the guard's machine guns and OPENS FIRE.

BB and Salle fall back, diving into an ancient elevator car.

Slugs ricocheting, BB and Salle struggle to shut the doors.

From Max's POV: as the elevator doors slam shut, a glimpse of

BB's face stretching and distorting into a demonic grin...

ELEVATOR

BB and Salle watch the floor number rise.       BB finds his cell.

By Salle's face, that's a thought scarier than Max.

INT. AESIR BUILDING - PENTHOUSE OFFICE - NIGHT

The giant glass-walled penthouse office of the Aesir building

sits above the storm clouds. Up here, dawn is close.

Nicole Horne watches the storm below her feet.       She ANSWERS.

INTERCUT - HORNE'S OFFICE/ELEVATOR

Nicole sighs, eyes still fixed on the window.

After a moment, Horne lets her eyes drift shut.        She smiles.

INT. ASGARD BUILDING - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

The elevator opens and BB steps out, snapping his phone shut.

HALLWAY

Max turns the corner into a long hallway of prison-like

offices. Emergency lights flicker through barred windows...

A group of GUARDS look up and see Max at the same moment.

Max is without hesitation, SHOOTING two before they can raise

their weapons. Falling back, the others start FIRING...

S

flapping wings, light from the window strobing with movement.

Max doesn't seek cover, walking into BLAZING machine guns...

One by one, all the offices FLICKER with fluttering wings.

Max marches on, rage-filled eyes set in a lifeless face...

ARMORY

Guards empty the weapons lockers, loading for bear as the

sounds of GUNFIRE grow closer. BB and Salle supervise.

Salle's mistrust of BB is painted all over his face.

CORRIDOR

Max FIRES, plaster from shattered walls caking on his sweat-

soaked skin. Guards take cover, fall back for position...

With every shot fired, the muzzle flash glows in Max's empty

black eyes, the flames glowing brighter as he advances...

GREAT HALL

...into the vast, open space at the heart of the building.

GUARDS appear at the other end of the hallway, OPENING UP.

Their SHOTS echo, the great room ringing like a cave.

Max lifts his eyes - what had been four stories now seems

like forty, the top not visible behind hazy black smoke.

Bullets WHISTLE past Max's ear. Distracted, he RETURNS FIRE,

but his eyes are drawn back to the black smoke above.

SOMETHING moves in the clouds, swirling closer...

STAIRWELL

More Guards THUNDER up steps littered with spent casings. In

their haste, they don't notice the thin gap in one window...

GREAT HALL (MAX'S POV)

Crashing back into Max's perspective, a RUSHING WIND presses

down from the black clouds above, the darkness spreading.

Max's legs buckle, his machine gun scattering SHOTS...

The room goes darker as it gets louder, light blotted out by

WINGED CREATURES drifting down from above, circling closer...

Max stumbles, buffeted by their POUNDING WINGS. CHOKING on

sulfurous smoke, hair smoldering, skin starting to singe...

ANOTHER HALLWAY

A small group of Guards race forward, dodging the bodies of

others Max met along the way. They hesitate, form ranks...

GREAT HALL - CONTINUOUS

...and the frightened Guards charge into the great room.

It is silent. Smokeless. Just a hall. Blood streaks the

walls, flows between the crumpled carcasses of more dead

GUARDS. At the far end of the hall, something moves:

Max. On his hands and knees, rivers of sweat flowing.

Confused, the group of Guards approach Max. Weapons ready.

MAX'S HALLUCINATION

Crushed inside the DEAFENING blackness, Max lifts his eyes to

see LEERING DEMONS gazing down, distorted versions of...

GREAT HALL - CONTINUOUS

...the four Guards, who look down on Max's trembling, sweat-

logged body on the floor. He's MUTTERING, CHANTING...

So easy it almost doesn't seem fair, a Guard aims his pistol.

Suddenly, bullets RIP through the Guards from behind. No

chance to respond, bodies torn open with a merciless BLAST of

machine gun fire. They fall around Max, joining the rest.

Gun smoking, Mona rushes up the hallway to Max.

MAX'S HALLUCINATION

The Demons fade away, their howling SCREAMS lingering behind.

Awaiting the next horror, Max is shocked by something else:

White light splits open the smoke, cutting the black in two.

GREAT HALL

Mona kneels down over Max, lifting up his head. Max's skin

is pale, slick like melting wax. His eyes are empty.

There's nothing gentle in her touch - she SLAMS Max's head

back onto the cold marble, jerking him up again by his hair.

Gradually, Max's black eyes start to find Mona's face.

M

The white light grows brighter, blasting away shadows and

smoke. In its center, traces of Mona's face appear.

GREAT HALL

Max starts to sit up, gazing with confusion at the hallway.

Max nods.    No idea if he understands, Mona helps him up.

Max looks back at Mona, clearly having some idea of what that

means for her. They look at each other for a long moment.

EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - ROOF - DAWN

Sickly light glows in the east. The snow has all but

stopped. BB strides across the roof, hope in his eyes.

INT. AESIR SKYSCRAPER - PENTHOUSE OFFICE - DAWN

Nicole Horne sits at her desk, watching the storm recede.

A red light flashes on her phone.     She ignores it.

INT. ASGARD BUILDING - HALLWAY - DAWN

Joe Salle kneels over a pile of C4 bricks, wiring a bomb. He

tenses, hearing something in the hall behind him. Raising

his hands and turning slowly, he finds Mona waiting.

Slowly, Salle holds it out for Mona.     She grabs the remote.

Suddenly, BOOT STEPS ring up the hallway behind Mona.

Salle smiles.

BB'S OFFICE

Max staggers through the door to BB's office. Out the big

windows, the East River begins to glow with approaching dawn.

flickering shadows, hallucinations receding but not yet gone.

He pauses at the glass, caught by his twisted reflection.

HALLWAY

Salle holds out his hand for the detonator. Behind Mona,

elevator doors open to reveal more Guards. They file out...

Mona watches the guards file towards the stairs. Behind her,

the elevator car waits, empty, the doors starting to close...

Ever so casually, Mona takes a step back onto the elevator.

The doors HISS along their tracks, converging...

Mona presses the button on the detonator.

BB'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

T

his demonic image bursting into a thousand shards of glass...

EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - DAWN - CONTINUOUS

From the ground, the explosion rains glass down over the Feds

and waiting SWAT team. Shielding his eyes, Bravura squints

up at the flames in the windows. Taliente pats his shoulder.

Taliente nods.    On his signal, the SWAT team mobilizes.

INT. ASGARD BUILDING - BB'S OFFICE - DAWN

Wind GUSTS through the shattered windows of BB's office. Max

brushes away diamonds of broken glass, struggling to stand.

Max draws his pistol and strides through the roof door...

EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - ROOFTOP - DAWN - CONTINUOUS

A shower of bullets strikes the doors as he steps outside.

Max can't react. Bullets shred the door behind him, one slug

hitting Max in the stomach and knocking him to the ground.

returns his attention to the sky, hopelessly waiting.

between his fingers, streaming out of the hole in his side.

Using the pistol as a crutch, Max finally stands...

BB tosses his useless weapon aside.

Max limps closer, pistol swinging at his side.     A thin trail

of blood follows behind him in the snow...

BB watches Max's approach, his swagger rapidly failing.

With the pain in his stomach causing some difficulty, Max

pulls the pistol's slide back to check for a live round.

BB watches Max's preparations, terror growing. Unable to

resist his panic, BB abruptly tries on a helpless smile.

Max raises the pistol and PULLS THE TRIGGER. The slug hits

BB in the center of the forehead, snapping his neck back.

The shell casing twirls down, landing in the snow without a

sound. BB's corpse lands a moment later with a clumsy THUD.

Max lets the gun slip out of his hand and walks past the body

- BB's eyes frozen on the sky, red halo slowly expanding.

Max reaches the edge, the river's black body revealed below.

His gait falters, blood filling each footprint in the snow...

INT. ASGARD BUILDING - BB'S OFFICE - DAWN

The SWAT team streams through the door, racing for the roof.

EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - ROOFTOP - DAWN

Max stands at the roof's edge. A stiff wind buffets against

his chest, forcing his unsteady legs to sway a little.

Slowly, his eyes drift from the water below to the sky...

INT. MAX'S BEDROOM (VISION) - TWILIGHT

From the doorway, Max watches Michelle smiling down at their

baby, who grabs at her finger with a wide grin.

Gently, Max takes a seat on the edge of the bed beside them.

EXT. ASGARD BUILDING - ROOFTOP - DAWN

Max looks up at the sky. Behind him, the SWAT team races

outside, swarming and BARKING orders at Max, weapons raised.

Max drops to his knees. He raises his hands, one dripping

with his own blood. But his eyes stay on the sky...

...where a tiny tear opens in the clouds, revealing steel

grey dawn beyond.

