A darkness like no other, a silence that is unsettling.

Sharp pinholes of light show a sea of distant stars across

the void of outer space. Our own motion is only realized as

an enormous object slowly moves towards us, taking shape.

A SPACE SHIP of unimaginable size, a tubular freighter easily

ten times larger then any aircraft carrier. At first glance

it appears lifeless and adrift, but slowly the small glow of

cockpit windows come into view as we move closer.

Moonlight cuts across the hull, displaying the name; EDEN.

BOWER (V.0.)

Where were you... when Eden was lost?

Like every other kid on my block, I was

in the middle of a dream, envious of

those who were chosen to be part of

mankind's greatest quest. Dreaming of

the unknown and trying to imagine what

only the lucky few would encounter.

INT. COCKPIT (EDEN) - CONT.

Inside the flight deck it's ghostly vacant, rows of empty

flight chairs and numerous guidance computers gently

blinking. With half filled coffee-cups and jackets hung over

the seat backs... it appears the control deck has been

suddenly evacuated.

Muffled SCREAMS are heard somewhere deeper inside the ship.

BOWER.(V.0.)

As the entire world watched in wonder,

there were only a few, skeptical of the

journey's success.

Only a few... who would be right.

The further we move into the ship... signs of violence

appear, smears of dark blood sharply standing out on the

bright white paneling and several broken computer screens.

The muffled SCREAMS grow louder and clearer... an argument

between men, panicked rage over-lapping.

2.

CAMERA slowly moves past a corner to see the middle-of a

violent confrontation. One OFFICER is locked inside a sleep

chamber, banging on the glass and pleading with panic.

Another OFFICER is on the floor, mortally wounded, his body

still twitching with his head bashed in. The INSANE OFFICER,

a young corporal is moving from terminal to terminal, typing

in commands with a casual and emotionless nature.

Blood streams have run down his face from both ears and nose

as he continues to type commands into the flight computer...

heightening the trapped OFFICER'S muffled,. screams.

STOP IT! STOP FOR GOD'S SAKES! PLEASE!

GOD NO!

The INSANE OFFICER hits the final command key and warning

buzzers ignite with flashing lights. He closes his eyes,

taking a breath of relief.

STOP IT! YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT THIS WILL

DO TO- YOU'RE NOT- STOP! YOU'RE GOING

TO FUCKING KILL US ALL!

The trapped OFFICER begins pounding on the glass with a

crazed panic as the INSANE OFFICER calmly goes to his own

sleep-pod and climbs inside, sealing the hatch.

TRAPPED OFFCIER (CONT-D)

PLEASE GOD! NO! NO GOD DAMMIT!

Control panels flash and hydraulics ignite. Like a row of

tumbling dominos, each of the sleep-chamber pods shift

positions with a SHUSH of hydraulics and then... they are

launched with a ROAR of micro-jets.

EXT. SHIP "EDEN" - CONT.

We're suddenly back into the unsettling silence as... like a

bee hive that's exploded, thousands of coffin-sized sleep

pods are ejected from the ship in unison. They are sent

tumbling into open space in every direction as the ship

slowly continues its unaffected course.

3.

The trapped OFFICER is seen SCREAMING in silence inside his

own pod.

EXT. OUTER SPACE

We slowly float towards an astroid field. As we grow closer

it's the sea of sleep pods slowly floating through space.

BOWER (P.O.)

Where was I... when I heard we'd lost

Eden? Just like every other kid on my

block... I was dreaming... of being one

who would be chosen to follow.

As we move closer to the asteroid field of sleep pods, it's

obvious that time has passed, a single skeleton inside each

of the pods, hands in a clawing position towards the glass.

We PUSH IN towards one pod, moving towards the SKULL, still

locked in a SCREAMING position, wide mouthed and...

M. HYPER-SLEEP CHAMBER

A RUMBLE passes... EYELIDS TWITCH... A GASP.

Inside a coffin-size chamber, a dim glow of light seeps

through a small glass porthole. A MAN is asleep, a mask

attached to his face, tubes of liquid feeding into his arms.

CORPORAL BOWER, military physique, chiseled features. His

chest lightly expanding, blood pulsating through his veins.

Lights FLICKER PAST and his body comes to life, muscles

flinching, breath quickening. He squirms with discomfort,

ripping away the mask. He gasps, trying to SCREAM.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER COMPARTMENT - CONT.

His scream is muffled under three inches of glass. The hatch

door is hit with a THUD and white gases erupt from the edges.

THUD, THUD... THUD! The door bursts open and BOWER scampers

out, struggling to rip away the feeding tubes. He HITS the

floor, naked and gasping. His pores ignite, dripping sweat.

He tries to get to his feet, but his legs wobble underneath

him, collapsing. He yells at the floor.

4.

Burns are red! Bruises... blue-

His voice echoes into the dark, alone in a cavernous room as

he pauses, struggling for orientation. He gets to his feet,

muscles twitching. His short-cropped hair is... pure white.

Hey...? HEY!!? Someone?

A constant low RUMBLE is present, joined by the occasional

MOAN and CREAK of a large ship. A SHUDDER travels through

the room with a random FLICKER of LIGHTS to reveal...

A massive steel compartment, tangled with technology. It's

cold and institutional. High-tech computer terminals slope

out of the floor. The FLICKER passes, taking us into black.

We hear him: fumbling through the room, switches are thrown

with no result and compartments are pulled opened and...

SNAP! A glow stick comes to life.

He squints at his darkened surroundings with confusion. A

drip of liquid catches his eye and he staggers back to his

sleep pod. He grabs the dangling tubes that were ripped from

his arm and he sucks on the tube, pulling as much liquid into

his mouth as possible.

After a few heavy gulps, he suddenly heaves towards the

floor. He painfully forces himself to drink, gasping.

He looks up to notice two sleep chambers next to his own. He

leans closer with the glow stick to see the first one, the

name plate reading; 2nd Lt. Cooper. It's EMPTY.

The third pod's name plate reads; LT. PAYTON. Deep inside

there is the figure of a man, asleep under a mask.

Payton? Lieutenant... Payton?

He turns back to his own pod, seeing the name plate that

reads; CORPORAL BOWER. Even this name doesn't seem familiar.

Bower? Bower...?

The loss of memory heightens his fear even more as a shiver

travels through his body while he staggers towards a nearby

computer terminal. He taps the keys on a computer terminal.

Nothing. He frowns, leaning closer.

5.

As he taps the keyboard, powder blooms out from under his

fingers. He wipes the surface of the panel to see a thick

layer of dust. Under the smear is...

Elysium - Flight Systems - Operation Terminal #87153-D.

He pulls focus to see... his FINGERS are trembling

uncontrollably, an odd vibration of nerves. He slowly makes

a fist with concern.

INT. STORAGE LOCKER ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

BOWER walks along a row of storage lockers reading each name

plate. He stops at the locker labelled; Corp. Bower. He

pauses, mumbling the name once again with no recognition.

Bower.

He opens the locker to see an assortment of personalized

belongings, uniform and gear, none of it seeming familiar.

He uses a towel to wipe off the layer of sweat and oily

substance coating his body, pausing to see an identification

tattoo on his forearm that reads: FLT>>005A015.

He pulls on a black flight suit, emblems and military

markings of rank on the chest. He pulls on shoes and a tool

belt with a high powered pen-lamp.

On the inside of the locker is a emergency manual card with

block figures displaying breathing and stretching exercises,

labelled; Hyper-Sleep Disorientation Recovery Procedures.

(reading to himself)

.in the event of mild memory loss...

resulting from extended-

He freezes on... A PHOTO tucked inside the door. EVALON, a

beautiful young woman smiling towards camera. He stares at

the-photo, his frown deepening with confusion. He checks the

back for a name, but nothing. He tucks the photo into a

pocket and exits.

DISSOLVE THRU BLACK:

6.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER COMPARTMENT - LATER

BOWER waves his hand over a sensor... no power. He steps in

front of a heavy set of steel doors, flipping several

switches and... nothing.

BOWER breaks open a storage bin, pulling out beverage packets

and a cup, taking a seat at the control desk. With Evalon's

photograph leaned against the console, he becomes lost in a

gaze as he gulps down nutrient pills and stirs an instant

coffee as we...

There is a conflict in his eyes, memories trying to return.

An image FLASHES past, EVALON smiling as BOWER kneels next to

her, gripping her hands.

BOWER'S gaze remains hollow, frown deepening as he sips the

cup and... winces with disgust.

Faa-uck!

Distant THUMPS. He pans the pen-lamp across the ceiling and

toward the sounds... PAYTON'S sleep chamber.

THUMP, THUMP, THUMP: Muffled and desperate. CRACK! Bower

jumps back as someone kicks their way out from inside, the

hatch bursting open. Out climbs...

PAYTON, a man in his forties, but the rugged physique of a

man half his age, lean and agile. His military-style hair

cut is also pure white. Gasping for breath, he hits the

floor as BOWER tries to help him. PAYTON jerks with shock.

Whoa! Hey... easy! Lt. Payton? You're-

Sir... whoa!

PAYTON chokes and gasps, then glances up, giving Bower a once

over with a frown and a sobering tone.

Who are you?

Bower. Corporal... Bower, sir. I'm the-

7.

Bower?

That's right. You're waking from

Corporal?

Yes, sir. This is disorientation from-

corporal... Bower.

Yes. That's right, I'm-

Wanna get that fucking light out of my

eyes, pal?

Sorry... sir.

PAYTON rubs his face with a frown.

Where... are we?

We're aboard the Elysium. From what I've

Elysium...? Where are we?

I don't... really know. There's no power

in the com and I can't even-

Where's the... rest of the crew? It's

our shift? Our rotation-

I believe so.

B.

Aren't they suppose to be here... to wake

us?

Sir... I don't know where anyone is.

PAYTON takes breaths, trying to regain his senses, glancing

around at their darkened surroundings.

Hit the lights, will ya?

Ah... we're having some power problems-

Who woke you up?

Umm, not sure. It had to have been the

flight computer. There's no one here...

(off his look)

.except us.

Cold in here.

BOWER grabs him a towel and water container, turning back to

see PAYTON doesn't waste any time, stretching his limbs.

There's no power coming off the main

grid. Can't fire any of the...

(searching for word)

Dynos. Can't even open the doors.

PAYTON glances to the other empty sleep-chamber with a frown.

(off his look)

Our 2nd Lieutenant? I don't know where

he is. It was empty when I woke up.

None of the systems are on-line.

Mainframe is down, so I don't know how or

why it engaged independently-

Bower .

Yeah?

9.

Until I have two coffees you're just

gonna have to repeat all this shit, so

let's just idle here for a bit.

Sorry. I just- Just glad to see you

awake. i was... a little concerned. I

didn't know what to do if-

PAYTON gets to his feet, stumbling. BOWER catches him under

the arm as they stagger into the wall.

BOWER (CONT`D)

Easy... Lieutenant. Easy.

Coffee?

I'm on it.

Good man.

BOWER helps him to the locker room as LIGHTS FLICKER past.

INT. STORAGE LOCKER ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

PAYTON staggers along the row of storage lockers as BOWER

helps guide him with the flashlight beam. PAYTON pauses with

a frown as he glances across the name-plates, none of them

seeming familiar. BOWER gestures toward the locker, the name-

plate reads: LT. PAYTON.

This is you, sir.

How do you know that?

1 It's... the name on your sleep pod, sir.

PAYTON opens the door to see his belongings inside, a photo

of WIFE (MARIANNE) inside the door. He stares at it with

utter confusion. BOWER takes this in, looking to the memory

recovery card inside the locker.

10.

it says that the memory loss is only

suppose to be a momentary loss that's-

Very reassuring. I guess when you gamma

the brain into extended REM, sometimes it

can take a while to get it back.

PAYTON pulls on his flight uniform and squeezes his feet into

his shoes. BOWER notices the identification tattoo on his

forearm, partially obscured from view;

FLT>>00... (obscured by grime, hair and angle). Unlike his

own, PAYTON'S tattoo is faded with age.

I've been awake for at least an hour and

I still can't remember my... anything.

Listen, the last time I crawled out of a

hyper bunk, it took me... quite a while

to get it all back.

BOWER holds his frown as PAYTON squeezes his finger into a

wedding ring.

What was... your last flight, sir?

Don't recall. The Kuiper Belt odyssey?

Don't worry, it'll come back, eventually.

PAYTON kisses the photo of his wife.

I've gone through this before. I just

can't remember why I would agree to do it

again.

PAYTON goes to close his locker and BOWER motions with a

serious tone.

Sir? I know this is going to sound

strange, but do you even know where we're

going? I can remember the training,

but... not the mission. Know the

procedures, not the... destination.

11.

I figured you'd tell me.

Didn't even know the ship's name until I

saw it-on the console. For all I know

this was another damn training exercise-

Trust me, it's not. if this is a

simulation...

PAYTON notices both of their reflections off the mirrored

panel inside the locker... revealing their WHITE HAIR.

Someone is taking the joke a little far.

He shuts the locker and they exit, the flashlight's beam

panning away, taking us into darkness.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER COMPARTMENT/CONTROL DESK - LATER

BOWER and PAYTON are standing at the control console, the

screens flickering with distortion. BOWER hands him a coffee

and PAYTON takes a sip... with a wince of disgust.

None of the activators are working.

Figures. We can ride two hundred

thousand tons of space freighter across

the galaxy without a dent in the hood,

but can't get one good cup of coffee.

PAYTON flips a few switches with no result of power.

Without the mainframe, we can't connect.

I don't know how we'll ever be able to-

PAYTON is in his element at the control desk, flipping open

an emergency auxiliary-power panel. He snaps open a handle

and he forcefully gives it several rotations with a MOAN of

whirling magnetos. The hand-crank allows a dim glow of

electricity to the light panels.

Oh, I- didn't even think of that.

12.

PAYTON gives him a look with a grin and flips a switch.

Payton on the con. Respond? This is Lt.

Payton of flight Team...? Shit-

Five.

Five? How do you know that?

BOWER pulls up his sleeve, exposing his tattoo ID. PAYTON

nods, "good thinking."

Lt. Payton of Flight Team Five. Does

anyone copy? Anyone... respond? Anyone

awake up there?

Dead static.

Team Four suppose to be here for the

shift rotation. Where could they be?

Fucking teamsters. Maybe they couldn't

get to us.

BOWER eyes the third empty sleep-chamber.

Where could he have gone?

PAYTON gazes off blankly. A RUMBLE of FLICKERING LIGHTS pass

and the computer screens slowly fade, going black.

The power systems must be free-floating

off blown circuits or something. The

over-ride grid won't even lock in.

Whatta ya think?

I think we need to find a deck of cards

and call the union.

Distant THUMPS are heard overhead and they freeze... watching

the ceiling with uncertainty.

13.

Somebody... is up there.

Hmm. Ventilation... maybe. Systems keep

re-booting after each surge. That could

be anything.

THUMPS fade as the ship eerily MOANS and CREAKS.

I say we get out of here. I'd rather be

up and out then stuck in the trunk.

The room is blocked by the two heavy steel doors on either

end, security doors ten feet wide. PAYTON leads the way

towards one end, gesturing towards the doors.

We're not far from the bridge but without

the circuits locked in... I don't know

how we could ever get this thing open.

As they approach, their flashlight beams pan across the door

to see jagged chips and scratches all along the edges. Tools

are scattered on the floor, the control panel ripped open.

Jesus. Somebody was trying to get out.

Ironic. I think it was built to protect

us.

(gesturing to the third pod)

Well, he got out... some how.

A RUMBLE approaches... another SHUDDER that FLICKERS the

lights. They watch the ceiling as BOWER counts in his head

as it fades.

Cycle is broken.

What?

It's not circuitry. Reactor timing is

off-set in the core. Seems sporadic, but

it's not. Each revolution decreasing

before starting over from the beginning.

14.

It's trying to reconnect, but it won't

until it's reset.

How the hell do you know that?

I dunno. I can't remember my own- but I

know everything there is to know about

that damn reactor.

The training stuck.

And I know that...

Another SHUDDER approaches.

That's twelve revolutions, before

recycling. And this one will only last-

As they watch the ceiling, their flashlight beams stop on a

small ventilation shaft that's been ripped open. They

exchange a look and...

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT - MOMENTS LATER

Their lights spill inside an endless steel shaft only a foot

and a half in diameter, leading into darkness.

Now if we only had a monkey and a rope.

PAYTON climbs down as BOWER rotates his jaw with eagerness.

Our 2nd Lieutenant must have gone this

way. Don't you think?

Must have.

It's the only way out.

I think we're better off... waiting here-

For what? If the mainframe is off-line-

15.

We're not going to be able to get to the

bridge or even be able to open that door

from the other side-

But we can at least find out what's

Do you remember just how big this ship

is, kid? We don't know where that will

come out, if at all-

But, we can at least try to-

I can't do that.

Can't do... Sir?

Listen, I have to take a handful of

Doxitol just to get in the hyper-bunk.

You're... claustrophobic?

I can take a lot, that's not one of 'em.

I can take it.

Real boy scout, is that it? You get lost

in there and you're a footnote in the

You can guide me... over two-way.

PAYTON eyes him over with reluctance.

You know there's something wrong. How

long can we wait in here before we have

to try something?

16.

(gesturing to 2nd Lt pod)

How long did he wait?

Silent stare as a SHUDDER passes, flickering the lights.

What if no one else is awake and there's

no one at the wheel?

INT. STORAGE LOCKER ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

They dig through compartments, collecting tools. BOWER puts

on a boom-mic, clips the radio on his belt and tests the

transmitter. PAYTON goes through a drawer of office

supplies, handing him an ENVELOPE OPENER.

Just in case...

(off his look)

.there's mail you need to open quickly.

BOWER tucks it into a zipper pocket and his photograph falls

out. PAYTON watches as he tucks it back in and zips up.

Wife...?

Yeah... I think so.

Must be newlyweds. How can you forget

something like that?

What do-you remember? Anything yet?

Some pieces.

Still a little fuzzy but you're the cocky

little shit who wanted the window seat?

And you're the cranky old bastard who

made me take the aisle.

Give it some more time, pal.

17.

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT - MOMENTS LATER

BOWER squeezes inside, pushing himself forward several feet

as PAYTON peeks inside behind him. With one last look, BOWER

holds the pen-lamp in his teeth and begins to crawl, pushing

himself forward on his stomach, only several inches at a time

in a rhythmic motion.

Grunt, slide, breath. Grunt, slide, breath.

PAYTON'S flashlight slowly fades from sight.

DISSOLVE THRU BLACK:

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT - LATER

Slowly the sound approaches...

Grunt, slide, breath. Grunt, slide breath.

BOWER'S pen-lamp slowly emerges and he pauses to catch his

breath. With anxiety shown across his sweat coated face, he

squints down the endless shaft.

Dammit.

PAYTON'S voice crackles over the radio.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

How we doing?

Nothing yet. Christ, not a single vent

opening or- Nothing. How about on your

end?

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

PAYTON is seated at the control desk, the light panel fading.

He hand-cranks the auxiliary handle and then continues

tapping the keys as they flicker with distortion.

Power surges keep coming across in longer

increments, just like you said.

18.

I'm gonna keep trying to get inside and

run a dyno. Or at least try to get a

pizza delivered.

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT - CONT.

BOWER frowns as he squints down the shaft.

Hey?

BOWER quickly pushes himself forward reaching an intersection

in the shaft.

Got an intersection here.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

What are the choices?

The light pans to endless shafts in each direction. He SNAPS

a glow stick to life, letting it drop down the vertical

shaft... silently into nothing.

A whole lot of the same... nothing.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

If you're gonna take a turn let's keep

track. That way you can get back if

there's no way out.

Don't say that.

BOWER lowers his head, breathing heavily.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

If you haven't seen anything yet... maybe

you should head back now.

BOWER sets his jaw and suddenly spots a SPIDER, gently

dropping down from a string of web. It lands and quickly

scurries away.

(under his breath)

I'll be damned.

BOWER collects himself, a tightened jaw of determination.

19.

I'm taking a left. Make a note.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Left it is.

BOWER turns the corner to follow the spider's path, the glow

of the lamp slowly fading.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

A wall of monitors FLICKER, only offering a quick glance of

surveillance cameras on the ship, images too quick and

distorted to recognize but resembling empty corridors and

vast cargo compartments.

PAYTON looks to the name plate that reads Elysium and a small

emblem above it, a global shape with a spiral design.

As he stares at the emblem, it seems memories are returning,

a frown hardening on his face.

Distant THUMPS snap him from his trance and he pans his

flashlight towards the wall.

THUMP... SCRAPE... THUMP.

He nervously pans his light slowly up the wall and across the

ceiling. A shiver of uneasiness goes through him as he sits,

trapped within the room alone. He tries to divert his fears,

turning to the control screen, giving the hand-crank a whirl.

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT - LATER

Pitch black. Grunt, slide, breath. Grunt, struggle, breath.

BOWER pauses, digging for his lamp. He's soaked with sweat,

eyes nearing desperation. Pipes are cutting through the

shaft on both sides, making his crawl space even smaller and

much more difficult.

Payton?

Nothing but STATIC.

20.

Payton!? Do you copy!? HEY!?

Finally...

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

(filled with static)

I'm here. You alright?

BOWER rubs the sweat from his eyes, anxiety increasing with

his heavy breathing.

I dunno. I dunno if I can- I can't tell

if I'm going in circles or- There's

nothing to- Can't breath-

Easy, pal. Breath easy. Listen to me-

BOWER squirms, pushing outward against the walls of the shaft

with an increasing panic.

I just want... to stand up for God's

sakes! Can't breath-

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Calm down. Listen, you gave it a shot.

Let's get you back here.

Back!? Are you kidding- I can't turn

around! I can't even- Do you know how

far I've gone!?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Take it easy-

BOWER bangs the wall of the shaft with desperation.

I just want OUT of this FUCKING THING!

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON is helpless, listening as BOWER is heard on the radio

starting to FREAK OUT.

21.

Bower? BOWER!? Stop it. Stop it!

Just listen to me. Put it out of your

head. Stop moving and breath. Listen to

BOWER (ON RADIO)

I can't... breath!

Put your mind somewhere else-

BOWER (ON RADIO)

Like WHERE!?

Well... this may not be the best time to

tell you, but I got the door open.

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT

BOWER freezes in shock.

WHAT!? Are you fucking kidding me!?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Yeah. I'm kidding you.

BOWER lowers his head with exhaustion and a chuckle.

PAYTON (ON RADIO) (CONT'D)

There ya go. Now just breath. Easy,

pal. Easy. We'll get you through this.

We'll figure this out together. Hear me?

I do remember something.

What's that?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

My dream. On the way out. Real doozy.

There I was at the Rose Bowl game. Naked

and everyone was drunk but me. Spent two

years looking for clothes. Long fucking

Rose Bowl game.

BOWER chuckles, his breathing growing more steady.

22.

Dream like that, sounds like you've got

some... guilt issues.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Or just... clothing issues.

Two years?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Huh?

You said two years. You think we've been

asleep for two years?

I PAYTON (ON RADIO)

I do remember that being our duty

rotation and... if we're team five that

means we've been out for...

.eight years.

BOWER pulls the photo from his sleeve pocket, shining the

flashlight onto Evalon's image.

(under his breath)

That can't be right.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

What can't be?

Why would I-leave her? I can't even

remember saying good-bye. Why would I?

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

PAYTON ponders the thought while gazing at the ship's emblem.

Well, you aren't here on default. This

was a select pick. This flight was...

different.

BOWER (ON RADIO)

Different... how?

23.

We're not just doing speed laps on the

belt. This was something... special.

PAYTON gently rubs his hand across the emblem carved in the

steel, brushing away the layer of dust as his finger tips

TREMBLE. He pauses with a frown as a SHUDDER approaches...

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT - CONT.

The SHUDDER is felt inside the shaft, EVALON'S photo

trembling under the flashlight beam.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

I remember... being interviewed. My

mother seeing me on the news. This

flight was... like no other. We weren't

just pilots...

BOWER looks up, shining the light down the shaft as the

SHUDDER fades. He pauses to see small bolts protruding from

the wall, small pieces of ripped fabric and smears of blood.

PAYTON (ON RADIO) (CONT-D)

We were... heroes. We were-

BOWER (INTO RADIO)

Someone's been through here.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

What?

He pushes himself closer, squeezing between pipes for a

closer look..

Someone's been...

BOWER notices the droplets of sweat dripping off his chin are

rolling forward across the shaft floor with a frown.

BOWER (CONT" D )

Wait a second-

What's wrong?

I'm... I'm at an angle! Shit!

24.

BOWER panics as he begins to slide forward into a downward

sloping shaft, clawing at the walls. The flashlight falls,

rolling and sliding into the darkened abyss. He frantically

tries to grip a pipe, but his hand slips, picking up speed.

BOWER (CONT`D)

No, no... N00000!

He slides head first into a vertical drop, the shaft

tightening like a funnel, crushing his lungs and SLAM! He

crashes into a steel grate where his flashlight lays. It's a

nightmarish head stand, his neck twisted with all his weight

on top of himself, squirming with no where to squirm.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

BOWER!?

The flashlight falls through the grate and he watches in

horror as the light drops, fading from sight, taking him into

darkness.

Aaaaeirrrgh!

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON quickly leans toward the console, gripping the radio.

Bower!? What happened? Bower!?

All he can hear is the muffled, panicked struggle. The

RUMBLE of a power surge approaches.

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT

Pitch BLACK. BOWER squirms, twisting and heaving inside the

steel vise deathtrap. GASP, GASP, GASP! And then...

The RUMBLE approaches. A SHUDDER that sends a domino effect

of metallic CLANKS towards him from below. Small shafts of

light break through as small vents open in the side walls.

His fingers dig the envelope opener from his pocket as the

RUMBLE fades, CLANKING the vents shut just as...

He stabs the envelope opener into an open vent. Metal bends.

He begins to BANG his elbow against the vent, over and over.

BANG! BANG! BANG!

25.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Bower!? Answer me!

BANG, BANG... BASH! He breaks the vent and kicks until he's

able to push his legs through, into darkness, scrambling.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON is on the edge of his chair, pressing the speaker to

his ear.

Bower...!?

Through the static comes a HOWL of victory.

I'm... out! I'm-

PAYTON breathes a heavy sigh of relief.

Jesus, don't scare me like that! Where

are you?

INT. STORAGE BIN

BOWER snaps a GLOW STICK to life to see himself inside a

small box-shaped bin, kneeling on top of dozens of BOOTS.

I'm- I'm inside a boot locker!

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

A what!?

I'm inside a God damn-

He shoves outward and the door SNAPS open. He falls out,

flips through the air and SLAMS to the floor, an IMPACT on

the radio sends...

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

A POP of static erupts over the speaker.

26.

Bower...? You alright? BOWER!?

INT. STORAGE COMPARTMENT - CONT.

BOWER painfully gets to his feet to see rows of storage

compartments, looking up to the storage bin he fell out of.

Make that an overhead compartment. You

with me, Payton? I got out. Hear me?

He checks the transmitter, crackling with static.

I INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

PAYTON adjusts the frequency with concern.

Bower? Do you hear me? Bower...?

Nothing but STATIC.

INT. STORAGE COMPARTMENT - CONT.

BOWER digs into a storage bin, finds another flashlight and

goes to a single paneled hatch. He flips the switch and

.nothing. His eyes quickly search for a solution.

INT. STORAGE COMPARTMENT/CORRIDOR -- MOMENTS LATER

A panel is BUSTED open and BOWER jabs a pipe into the gap,

forcing the door open. SHUSH... the hydraulic pistons ignite

and the hatch slides open with an echoing... THUD!

He cautiously steps out into...

INT. CORRIDOR - CONT.

His beam of light stabs into the darkness of the massive

corridor. This is our first sense of the enormity of the

ship, endless steel ribbed passageways that stretch in both

directions as far as the light will illuminate.

27.

BOWER (INTO RADIO)

Payton? You there...?

He cautiously ventures down the corridor as LIGHTS FLICKER

past, getting a quick glimpse of just how incredibly far the

corridors run. He steps up to an intersection of corridors,

adjusting the frequency on his radio.

Payton? Can you hear me!?

Dead static. He sighs, looking down each of the corridors,

all appearing identical and endless.

Which way is which?

I He examines the piping that runs along the ceiling, checking

the direction of the valves and guesses, picking a direction.

He walks to the edge of the next corridor and pauses with a

frown. Glancing down the side corridor, fifty yards away,

something is off. Within the symmetrical framing of steel,

there is a rounded shape that is out of place.

Be cautiously steps closer as the object takes the shape

of... a MAN, standing at the edge of a doorway, head slightly

cocked, peeking out.

Hey...!?

BOWER freezes, caught in a silent stand-off, the MAN'S

motionless stare is unsettling.

Hello...?

A low RUMBLE approaches as LIGHTS FLICKER past to reveal...

The MAN'S face, hauntingly contorted, swollen features. The

MAN is dead, hanging from a cable around his neck, naked and

gutted like an animal, his feet hanging an inch off the

floor. His face is brutally beaten.

Jesus... Christ. Jesus-

BOWER back pedals with fear and confusion as distant THUMPS

make him quickly click off his light and he backs away,

fading into the dark. His whisper fades.

28.

Payton...? Are you there? Answer me.

FADE THRTJ BLACK :

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - LATER

PAYTON is pacing back and forth while switching his radio

transmitter through the channels, one at a time.

Bower? You there?

Com'on, man. You there?

Bower:?

The familiar sound slowly returns overhead...

SCRAPE... THUMP... SCRAPE.

The "sounds" are heard, muffled and now closer then before.

With the flashlight leading the way he explores into a corner

of the room, tangled with pipes.

SCRAPE... THUMP!

Something is just beyond the wall, trying to get in. PAYTON

back pedals, searching for any form of a weapon. He SNAPS

the handle off a storage bin, wielding it like a baseball bat

as he slowly back pedals to the control desk.

He continues his search across the radio channels, keeping

his eyes toward the corner as... his FINGERS on the switch

seem to be TREMBLING with more intensity.

Bower? Can you hear me?

Bower? Answer me, God dammit.

DISSOLVE THRU BLACK.

INT. MESS HALL - LATER

SHUSH... THUD! BOWER forces open a single paneled hatch door

and cautiously enters into an institutional style mess hall.

Hundreds of lunch tables and chairs. Random SPARKS of light

erupt from neon lights overhead.

29.

As he moves across the massive room, the neatly lined rows

gradually become more dishevelled, chairs knocked over and

unknown liquid dripping from the tables. Garbage litters the

floor, a dim glow of light emerging from the galley.

He crawls along the edge of the counter and peeks inside the

galley, horribly ran-sacked. In the midst of the wreckage, a

darkened FIGURE is seen scavenging through the cupboards,

angrily tossing empty containers aside.

The FIGURE pauses, sensing a presence and glances back as...

BOWER ducks. He contemplates, pulling out the envelope

opener and slowly peeks back out and...

POW! He's HIT in the face, blood spraying, slamming onto his

back. The pen-lamp and envelope opener spin across the

floor. BOWER tries to get up and he's grabbed by the hair, a

blade pressed against his neck.

A woman's voice growls into his ear, in German.

Keine Bewegung!

What-!?

He tries to look up and... CRACK! Instant swelling over his

eye from a hit. She kicks the envelope opener away.

Don't move!

Wait a second-

Don't you move MOTHER FUCKER!

She quickly pats him down, stealing tools. All he can see is

her bare feet, blackened from oil. He frowns to see her toe-

nails painted with bright pink polish.

NADIA, a torn jump suit, snarled hair hiding her face, skin

smeared with oil. A beautiful woman underneath an

apocalyptic smear of grunge. Her hair is pure white, high-

lighted with smears of oil.

Wait- I'm part of the crew! I'm-

30.

CRACK! A hit silences him and the forceful frisk continues.

She pauses to see Evalon's photograph, throwing it aside. He

grabs the photo and she shoves the blade deeper into his

neck.

DON'T FUCKING MOVE!

I won't! Please! Just listen- I'm not-

Take them off!

What!?

SHOES! I'll gut your ass-

Alright, alright! Take it easy!

He begins to remove his shoes and the radio on his belt

suddenly CRACKLES with activity.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Bower? You there-?

BOWER lunges and they go into a violent spin, crashing over a

table. Dishes clatter, gasps and grunts... only glimpses of

the fight through the flicker of light.

CRACK! BOWER'S hit, sent flying and he looks up to see her

silhouette approaching, edged weapon in her hand.

Stop! Stop it! Listen to me! Hold it!

she attacks and he frantically throws dishes and chairs to

fend her off. She throws the blade, the blunt end deflecting

off his forearm.

You crazy fucking bitch-

He wields the only weapon he can find... his shoe. And her

attack abruptly halts, slowly back pedalling with fright.

BOWER is confused, realizing her eyes are looking past him.

A BLUISH GLOW seeps in from the doorway, approaching from the

corridor. He looks back to see NADIA is running for the

kitchen... gone.

31.

He ducks below the tables as a FIGURE slowly enters the room,

carrying a long steel spear-like device with a splinter of

blinding BLUE FIRE on the tip, fueled with a chemical sprayer

like a welder's torch.

His obstructed view reveals the FIGURE as a tribal warrior,

scantily clad, elongated muscular frames, pale skin coated in

hydraulic fluid. Bald head with clumps of tangled hair. It

moves smoothly and silently, jabbing the tip of the flaming

device into each corner and crevasse, as if flushing out

anything hidden.

(under his breath)

What the hell is-

The FIGURE quickly spins his direction and SNAPS a lever on

the spear-device, killing the blue flame and taking us

instantly into darkness.

BOWER holds his breath with fright, back pedalling on his

knees as his eyes try to adjust to the dark. He takes an

uneasy breath to realize... there is more then one.

Slowly moving out of the shadows, four more HUNTERS slowly

emerge, like a unified pack on the prowl. They carry an

assortment of crudely made weapons, spears and blades of

sharpened metal.

The apparent leader of the pack is HEFLIN, the largest and

strongest of the group and he directs the pack with an

assortment of odd vocal sounds, deep HISSES from the throat

and gargled CACKLES.

On command, the one HUNTER flips a lever and the BLUE FLAME

crackles back to life with a burst of flammable liquid. The

hunt continues, the pack weaving through the debris,

following NADIA'S path.

As the BLUISH GLOW fades, BOWER is left bewildered and

terrified. Suddenly, his radio sounds...

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Is that you!? Bower--

BOWER frantically flips it off as one of the HUNTERS suddenly

turns back.

WEASEL, a small framed hunter searches the area like a

hunting dog, sniffing the spot.

32.

On closer examination, WEASEL is coated with war paint and

decorative scars marking his skin.

The only clear view is off an overturned bowl that shows

WEASEL'S face, oddly contorted in the rounded reflection.

WEASEL is headed directly for BOWER until.., a HISS from

HEFLIN calls him back. WEASEL takes one last look before

turning back, the torch fades from view, taking us into

black.

We hear... BOWER'S breath, heightened gasps of fear as he

begins to crawl away.

DISSOLVE THRU BLACK:

I INT. OFFICER'S QUARTERS - LATER

Pitch black. Sounds of the ship surround us along with the

occasional FLICKER of LIGHT. A whispered conversation

between BOWER and the radio slowly comes into ear-shot as we

find him, hidden beneath a console.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

(muffled with static)

.with that marking, she's got to be

part of the passenger manifest. Possibly

a glitch in the LFS support system, a

breakdown in the main grid must have

woken passengers, instead of the flight

crew.

But, why would she try to kill me!? She

was going to slit my throat! And why

would they look like that?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Look like what?

You should have seen these guys. They

were... a very fucked up looking gang.

Why the hell would they be-- Payton,

they were hunting.

BOWER gives himself a shiver as he fearfully checks over his

shoulder, eyes shifting with fear.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Hunting!?

33.

They sure-as-shit weren't a welcoming

party from the Promenade deck! These

guys were... looking to do some damage.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Take it easy-

We've got to try to contact the bridge.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

You're assuming there is someone on the

bridge.

You're not!? We're not the only ones

awake. Team Four wouldn't go back to

sleep without waking us for rotation.

Maybe they're on the main deck?

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

PAYTON goes to the doors, coated with desperate scrapes and

dents.

If they're in there... why haven't they

thrown the security hammer into lock

down? Seal and freeze it until the

emergency units wake?

Maybe they can't. With the systems

kicking on and off- Maybe they're flying

blind, with no control of the LFS?

PAYTON eyes the scattered tools across the floor and the

ripped open ventilation shaft.

Either way we can't assume help will be

coming. On-board or off. Out here,

there is no rescue. There is no turning

around. This thing wasn't even built...

.to return.

He pauses off the involuntary memory relapse, looking to the

I computer screens, taking in the thought.

34.

What are you talking about?

PAYTON glances across the control console, nodding with more

memories returning.

This is no regular transport. We're not

out collecting data off the belt or

hauling cargo... we are the cargo. It

was a single launch trajectory for...

That's as far as his memory allows, his words trailing off.

INT. OFFICER'S QUARTERS - CONT.

BOWER completes his thought, in a daze.

.Tanis. Planetary processing and

population. We're a settler's vessel.

Elysium. This was a one-way ticket.

BOWER'S gaze goes distant as...

Another place, another time, BOWER leans closer on a bed,

watching EVALON sleep. There is a a deep love in his eyes.

(under his breath)

How could I have... left her? Why would

I have done that? I loved her...

BOWER snaps out of his trance.

Payton!? Where is your wife?

What?

We didn't leave them behind. No one did.

They're on this flight! Remember the

recruitment.

35.

The fucking breeding tests- The wives,

the husbands- The- She's on this God

damn flight!

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL, DESK

PAYTON is remembering, eyes widening with the realization,

not completely at ease with the thought.

BOWER (ON RADIO)

They're here. Somewhere on board.

INT. OFFICERS QUARTERS

With a new energy of determination, BOWER crawls out of his

hiding place, panning the light to reveal the compartment, an

officer's living quarters. The room is designed in a

circular shape, angling up the wall at a ninety degree angle.

He quickly begins to search for tools and weapons.

I've got to find her... before those

fucking animals do! I've got to-

BOWER ransacks the compartments, tossing aside items.

Try to think of where they would be? A

sleeping compartment for non-service

Hold it, hold it! Think about this for a

What's there to think about!? I

remember! There was thousands of

passengers that weren't part of the

development team. Families that-

No, listen to me! LISTEN! You know how

big this ship is and there's no way of

knowing exactly where- If you go on some

wild goose chase to try to find her-

I HAVE TO-

36.

And then we would be no closer to getting

out of this situation with even less time

to regain control of the ship.

BOWER stews, wanting to retort, his mind is racing.

Our job is to obtain control of this

ship. Once we've taken control of the

systems, finding them would be easy. Are

you hearing me? We save the ship... we

can save them all.

But... how do we-

I r PAYTON

Where are you?

(panning the light)

I dunno. Officer's quarters, somewhere

above D-level, I think- I don't-

I can guide you. Find out where you are.

Hatch marker. Over the door.

His flashlight finds one of the hatch doors and he climbs up

the slanted wall to read the marker.

D-71643-L.

Take it.

Climbing up the angled furnishings, he searches for any

available weapon. He notices a mantel that displays several

antique astrological and navigation devices. He spots an

antique pistol. He breaks the glass, grabbing the gun, but

it crumbles under his grip, falling to pieces.

He sighs, but pauses to see... because the furniture is

angled, his light spots a hiding spot underneath the desk.

He pulls out a silver flask, bone dry. He reaches further,

pulling out an unusually shaped weapon, much like a sawed-off

shotgun with rounded edges. He snaps open the hand-crank

I lever and gives a forceful whirl. A slow MOAN of magnetos

causes the weapon's lights to dimly come to life.

37.

He climbs upward to an open hatch in the ceiling as we...

In the foreground, there is a small fish tank, completely dry

with a tiny fish skeleton laying on the bottom.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

PAYTON spins the hand-crank, allowing the computer screen to

glow brighter. He quickly works the keyboard, pulling up a

diagram of the ship.

PAYTON (INTO RADIO)

Alright. I'll lay out a path for you and

see if we can by-pass the main security

doors.

BOWER (ON RADIO)

Guide me to where?

Back toward the flight decks. Back to

me.

BOWER (ON RADIO)

I'm not coming back to you. What good

would that do? I can't open that door

from the other side--

What chance have you got out there on

your own? We'll figure out a way to

breach the command bridge-

A power surge sends a SHUDDER and FLICKERING LIGHTS past...

FLICKER CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR - CONT.

The same shudder of FLICKERING LIGHTS passes BOWER as he

looks down the endless stretch of corridors, pondering.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Bower...?

Listen... if you can get me to the

reactor bay. I can... reset the

reactor's cycle.

38.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

You know how to do that?

Yes. If I can... we can take control of

the ship. Open the doors, lights, get on

the bridge. You got a better suggestion?

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

PAYTON'S fingers slide across the blueprints, jotting down

hatch numbers and markers leading to the REACTOR BAY.

SOUNDS are heard in the walls... THUMP, THUMP, THUMP.

PAYTON is too focused on the job at hand to acknowledge them.

INT. CORRIDOR INTERSECTION - LATER

The flashlight emerges from the dark as BOWER reaches an

intersection, checking the marker and gasping for breath.

Third crossing. Marker D-5381-X.

Okay. Hold up. I don't want you to go

too far down that lane. Just catch your

I don't need a rest. Which way?

I don't know vet. Hold on-

BOWER backs to the wall, nervously scanning the corridor,

struggling for breath.

In the background a SHADOW moves at the end of the corridor.

Feeling uneasy, BOWER slowly backs into a nearby compartment.

I FOLLOW THRU:

39.

INT. INFIRMARY - CONT.

BOWER looks across the wreckage of what was once an

infirmary, slash marks and battle scars from bladed weapons.

Through the wreckage he spots... what appears to be a WINDOW.

The haze of outer space and an odd-colored MOON are visible.

(under his breath)

Eden.

INT. SLEEP CH.A.MBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON suddenly leans forward in his chair, memory sparked.

What did you say?

BOWER (ON RADIO)

The Eden.

PAYTON nods, memories returning as he mumbles the name.

Of all things to remember, why would you

pick that?

INT. INFIRMARY

BOWER climbs through the debris towards the apparent window,

but it's pretty far up a slanted wall and he begins to climb.

I'm just thinking, maybe there's

something we haven't considered. Eden

failed... because of ODS syndrome. The

one officer who was suffering from

Pandorum. Cabin Fever. Maybe there was

something similar with one of the earlier

No, no, no. You're talking about- Eden

was lost because of a mechanical failure,

simple as that. A systems malfunction.

BOWER pauses his climb, looking up towards the "apparent

window", inside what appears to be a bluish moon, dotted with

craters. He eagerly continues his climb, growing closer.

40.

That was the report... but don't you

remember the story of the one flight

officer... the real story? They say he

went lunar, launched the entire ship,

five thousand people killed with the flip

of a switch. All from a bad case of

cabin fever-?

spook story, along with a million others.

Eden was mechanical failure, not human

error. A. glitch... that was remedied way

before we ever-

And why did they switch the rotation

shifts from three years to two? And they

eliminated the manual over-ride-

They did that for obvious reasons, not

because of Eden.

BOWER pauses... within reach of the window only to realize it

was an illusion. A glass compartment door left slightly ajar

was reflecting a circular light panel, smeared with oil to

give the illusion of craters. His shoulders drop in defeat.

Well, at least we didn't wake up...

floating away in a coffin.

(under his breath)

Who says we didn't?

BOWER climbs down, peering out into the corridor.

Something happened to the other team?

Maybe there was... Pandorum.

BOWER looks to his own hand, cradling the weapon... his

FINGERS gently TREMBLING. He makes a fist and shakes his

hand, firmly grabbing the weapon.

I BOWER (CONT'D)

Which way?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Left at the third marker. Two more

levels down and we're there.

41.

BOWER heads down the corridor, making a turn as...

A shadowed FIGURE steps into view, slowly following his path

into darkness.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON is lost in thought as he watches the computer screens

slowly fade with power. He grabs the hand-crank lever, but

pauses to hear the sounds are returning, muffled and distant.

THUMP, SCRAPE... RATTLE.

He turns his light towards the ceiling and wall, which almost

seems to silence the sounds. The crackle of the radio snaps

him from his thoughts...

BOWER (ON RADIO)

This can't be right-

What's wrong?

INT. CORRIDOR

BOWER is crouched in the corridor, panning his light down the

corridor with shifting eyes of confusion.

Have I done a circle or am I doubling

back?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Why do you say that?

I've seen this before. This-

We follow his flashlight to reveal... a BODY tangled in a

wire snare. It appears to be the same dead body he witnessed

before, but as he steps closer, it's different. This body

has ripped clothing and isn't gutted.

It's... SHEPARD, a thin-framed man in a torn crew uniform,

tangled in a wire snare wrapped tightly under his arm and

around his neck.

42.

a different one. There's booby-traps,

rigged to the-

SHEPARD'S eyes POP open wide with a terrified expression,

completely silent until BOWER sees him. BOWER jumps with

fright and SHEPARD wildly squirms, SCREAMING bloody-murder.

AAAAEEEE IH !

His SCREAMS echo down the corridor, desperately fighting

back, like an animal caught in a trap.

Stop it! Jesus, I'm not gonna- SHUT-UP!

NO! PLEASE!! AAAERRGH!

BOWER hits him in the gut, knocking the air from his lungs.

SHEPARD crumbles, wheezing for air, going silent.

I'm not gonna hurt ya! Just shut the

hell up! I'm gonna get you out of this

thing. But, you have to be quiet,

understand?

SHEPARD'S gaze is hollow and disturbed, deeply traumatized.

BOWER pulls on the wire that's rigged to the hydraulics of a

nearby doorway, SHEPARD moans.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Bower, you sure that's a good idea? He

SNAP! The wire snare snaps free and SHEPARD goes to the

floor gasping. BOWER kneels over him to help, but SHEPARD

erupts with a shriek, like a hyper-sensitive rape victim.

PAYTON (ON RADIO) (CONT'D)

Watch yourself!

BOWER hesitates, the flashlight reveals SHEPARD'S

identification tattoo through the ripped uniform and blood-

soaked bandages. It reads; FLT//006//017

He's... team six. The unit that's

suppose to follow us. He's-

43.

As BOWER tries to wipe away blood, SHEPARD erupts again,

trying to scamper away from his touch.

BOWER (ON RADIO) (CONT'D)

Quiet! I'm not gonna hurt you!

SHEPA.RD begins to moan, mumbling and weeping as he rubs

circulation back into his limbs with nervous laughter.

Hey? You with me? You're gonna be

alright. Hear me?

Squinting past the glare of the flashlight, SHEPARD notices

BOWER'S clean uniform and the radio boom on his chin. He

begins to weep, tears of joy and agony.

Shepard, Thomas L. Team Six. Sector

Eight. I think I'm the only one, sir. I

knew it. I knew you'd be coming.

Huh?

Where's the rest of your squad?

Squad? My Lieutenant and I were the-

Where's the shuttle?

Shuttle? What are you talking about?

SHEPARD'S expression drops.

Aren't you the... retraction team? The

No, no. Hold on. I'm from this crew.

I'm from Team Five.

SHEPARD'S face goes pale, eyes going hollow. His demeanor

slowly begins to shift.

You... just woke up?

44.

six... maybe eight hours ago. I had to

crawl all the way from the upper deck

SHEPARD seems bitterly impatient as he quickly begins

gathering his tool's off the floor. His eyes watch the end of

the corridor, now he's in a hurry.

So... you don't have a fucking clue to

what's happened? Is that it?

That's what we're trying to figure out!

Tell me- what happened!?

(chuckle of disgust)

You know as much as I do.

I don't know anything.

You'll fit right in.

i SHEPARD feels along the pipes until he finds one leaking oil.

He vigorously begins to rub the oil onto his body.

What are you doing?

Get the scent off.

What ! ?

SHEPARD rubs oil across his neck and then goes to check the

corner, wrapping a strap around his fist to secure a

screwdriver into his hand.

I can't help you. I'm sorry.

Help.me? Wait a second-

They go off scent and sound as far as I

can tell and they're a lot fucking

stronger and faster they you'd think.

45.

When they come... run. Don't look back,

no matter what.

They- Who the hell are they!?

I can't wait for you.

BOWER is bewildered as SHEPARD poised like a sprinter,

preparing to run.

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Bower, you tell this asshole the chain of

command and a direct order to-

God dammit, WAIT! You're still an

officer of this ship and at present time,

your CO is ordering you to-

ordering? For your information, there's

a new CO on board. So fuck you and your

BOWER shoves him against the wall with force. Their struggle

i freezes as distant THUDS are heard down the corridor. They

both look to see... the GLOW of BLUE TORCFE'S growing.

SHEPARD begins to tremble, backing away. BOWER sets his jaw,

stepping out into the corridor and slowly cranks the power-

lever... with a WHINE of magnetos, raising the weapon.

That's not going to help you.

SHEPARD runs as BOWER hesitates, holding the gun towards the

GLOW that grows brighter, HISSES and CACKLES approaching.

Fear over comes BOWER.

Payton...?

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Get the hell out of there.

46.

BOWER turns and runs, trying to follow SHEPARD as SHADOWED

HUNTERS move past the end of the corridor.

INT. FILTRATION COMPARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

BOWER has a difficult time trying to keep up as SHEPARD

weaves through a compartment filled with filtration units and

a maze of piping.

BOWER spots a clear path but BUMPS into glass. He realizes

the compartment is separated by thick glass dividers. He

changes directions and sees SHEPARD crawling through a vent.

He tries to follow as... a BLUE TORCH moves past the doorway,

bare feet running across steel. A collection of HISS and

CACKLES grow louder.

BOWER crawls under piping to hide. He notices the activation

lights on his weapon fading... and he quietly tries to give

the energy lever a few turns... but the WHINE seems too loud.

He spots SHEPARD twenty feet away, hidden behind a console.

I They exchange a look and SHEPARD angrily waves him away.

Don't follow me! I can't help you-

SHANK! A wire noose SNAPS tight around SHEPARD'S neck. Much

like a pole and wire rig used to wrangle alligators, the wire

is released from the rig and SHEPARD bursts into a wild

frenzy, trying to run while on a thirty foot long leash. The

wire loops and tangles around the piping as...

HUNTERS move in from every direction, blades whirling.

SHEPARD'S SCREAM intensifies as the HUNTERS huddle over him.

BOWER viciously cranks the energy lever on the weapon and

climbs out of his hiding place as... SCREAMS intensify

within the brutal attack as the HUNTERS begin to feed.

SEEPARD'S neck is twisted far enough to SNAP!

I BOWER raises the gun towards the back of the lead hunter,

only fifteen feet away. He pulls the trigger and rusted

metal SCREECHES! Jammed.

47.

He panics, grabbing the gun with both hands, checking for a

safety switch and... KA-WHAP! The weapon discharges a

tremendous BLAST of energy off to the side.

-The weapon is designed to destroy biological and organic

material, but for safety precautions, it's unable to

penetrate man-made materials like lead, glass or steel. It's

unable to puncture the ship's hull.

The energy blast is an electrical discharge that CRACKS like

lightening and echoes like thunder. The blast HITS the side

of the wall with a deafening RIPPLE of aftershocks,

shattering anything fragile and knocking over anything not

fastened down within a thirty foot radius. This little thing

packs a punch.

The HUNTERS turn towards BOWER, the lead hunter turning to

reveal itself as...

} HEFLIN, a muscular-frame larger then the rest, skin

glistening with a layer of hydraulic fluid along with tribal

I scars and distorted war paint. His eyes hidden under shadow.

He slowly lifts his shoulders while lowering his head, much

like the fluid motions of a reptilian predator.

BOWER frantically cranks the energy lever and raises it

toward HEFLIN, completely unaffected by the threat. He

squeezes the trigger and...

KA-WHAP! The gunshot is THUNDEROUS, HITTING the unseen glass

divider between them. The safety glass absorbs the blast,

sending a SHUDDER through the hull.

HEFLIN barely flinches, stepping closer with a HISS. Off his

command, the HUNTERS take chase, swarming in every direction,

searching for a route around the glass divider.

BOWER runs for his life.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

PAYTON jumps to his feet, eyes darting across the flickering

monitors, gripping the radio.

Bower!? BOWER!? Answer me God Dammit!

All that is heard is GARGLED STATIC and PANICKED BREATHING.

48.

INT. CORRIDOR - CONT.

BOWER is running like a madman, ricochetting off doorways and

tripping over pipes in the darkness.

They got him! They fucking ripped him

apart! They're-

PAYTON (ON RADIO)

Don't look back! Hear me? Just go! GO!

BOWER finds an open corridor and sprints as...

Blades SCRAPE across metal, Blue.torches ROAR, HISSES echo.

BOWER gasps heavily, hyper-ventilating as he catches glimpses

of HUNTERS on his trail and running parallel in adjacent

corridors, closing in with unnatural agility and speed.

They're everywhere! They're-

I He runs through a doorway and a thin metal strip HITS him in

the legs... SHANK! Wires SNAP and HYDRAULICS MOAN. Hitting

the booby-trap at full speed causes the wire to rip out of

the door frame and...

BOWER tumbles as the wire loops around his leg and he FALLS

off the edge of a loading shaft, into an open elevator shaft

that drops into darkness.

The wire tightens and he's swung by the foot back into an

open corridor, two floors below, like a demented base-jumper.

He SLAMS into the ceiling and spins wildly over the open

shaft as his transmitter falls all the way to the bottom

exploding on IMPACT.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

The radio STATIC instantly changes to a HISS. PAYTON looks

to the meters... signal gone.

INT. CORRIDOR

BOWER grabs the wall to stop from spinning and frantically

pulls on the wire around his leg as it rips through his skin.

49.

Aaaargh!

Footsteps are heard approaching overhead. On the floor below

him are his weapon and flashlight. He stretches for the

gun... too far from his reach.

The flashlight is "on", illuminating the area. He pushes off

the wall and reaches for it... fingers touching, but unable

to grab it.

The GLOW of torches grows in the loading shaft and BOWER

pushes off, reaching for the flashlight. Unable to retrieve

it, instead he pushes it... into the open loading shaft. It

drops all the way to the bottom as...

HUNTERS step up to the edge of the shaft, looking down to see

the flashlight fall from sight...

BOWER swings back, grabs the wall and freezes.

The HUNTERS hear the flashlight HIT the bottom of the shaft

and then slowly double back. Torches fading.

ANGLE ON/CLOSE UP

BOWER'S face fills with blood as he hangs upside down, trying

to catch his breath. His grip is weakening as he looks up to

see... a shadowed FIGURE crouched with a spear in hand,

leering at him from the shadows, approaching. With no time

to defend himself and no where to go...

SCREECH!

The cable is violently tugged from above, jerking BOWER

upward, pulling him away from the wall. He spins wildly

trying to grab back onto the wall as...

SCREECH!

The cable yanks BOWER upwards with enough force to hit the

ceiling and swing toward the open shaft. His fingers claw at

the wall as he's literally being reeled in like a fish. He

sees the FIGURE charging with a bladed spear. He's knows

he's done for and...

50.

SNAP! The wire is slashed, BOWER breaks free hitting the

floor as the cable is jerked up and out of sight.

The silhouettes of the HUNTERS on the ledge, several levels

above, inspect the loose cable and after a HISS, they turn

back, fading into the shadows.

BOWER lays on his back, squirming in the tangled wire as the

FIGURE hovers over him, spinning a bladed weapon in his hand.

BOWER (CONT' D )

Please... don't- Please, listen-

The FIGURE slashes BOWER'S sleeve, rips away the fabric and

looks at his identification tattoo.

BOWER quits squirming as the FIGURE leans closer into the

light with a curious frown.

TANAKA, a Japanese man in ripped and modified clothing.

Unlike the awkward gauntness of the HUNTERS, he has a full-

framed, hard-edged physique and soft brown eyes.

TANA..KA

Japanese- No Subtitles

What...?

Japanese- No Subtitles

I don't understand. I- I don't speak-

TANAKA jabs a finger into the emblems on BOWER'S uniform.

Japanese - No Subtitles

I'm sorry. I don't- Do you... speak

English?

Japanese- No Subtitles

They share a nod and an awkward silence, BOWER still eyeing

the razor sharp weapon in his hand and not wanting to move.

51.

Thanks. Thanks for... that.

TANAKA is dead pan. BOWER flinches as TANAKA picks up the

energy gun and then... flips it over, handing it back to him.

BOWER cautiously accepts as he climbs to his feet.

Japanese- No Subtitles

I'm sorry. I don't...

Japanese- No Subtitles

I don't know what you-

TANAKA jabs the emblem on his uniform and presents his own

identification tattoo that reads: AGR//812//673.

(matter of factly)

Japanese - No Subtitles.

You're with... agriculture!? Jesus...

Listen, I'm not-

TANAKA jabs the emblem on BOWER'S chest, taps his tattoo.

Japanese- No Subtitles

Yes! I know! I'm with the flight crew!

But, I don't know what's happened! I

Another jab.

I'M NOT IN CHARGE HERE!!

Realizing louder doesn't mean clearer, BOWER sighs at his own

idiocy. TANAKA nods, but with obviously no clue what was

1 just said. They stare at one another in silence.

TANAKA hands him a flashlight. BOWER does his best charades,

gesturing to himself and pointing to the ship.

52.

Listen, I'm going to find out what went

wrong... with the ship.

Shee-ip?

Yes, I'm going to the reactor to try to-

Ree-actoh?

Right. It doesn't really matter- You

should stay put. Or go back to your

compartment sector- Wait for the

security systems to engage. Okay? We're

gonna take care of this problem.

Dead pan.

Okay?

BOWER slowly backs away and TANAKA follows. BOWER stops,

I eyeing his numerous bladed weapons.

No. Listen, you should stay. Wait

here... for the systems to- Alright?

Stay!

TANAKA frowns as BOWER backs away, gesturing. BOWER reaches

the next intersection and looks back. TANAKA is gone. He

continues down the corridor as LIGHTS FLICKER past.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - LATER

BANG! BANG! BANG!

PAYTON is coated with sweat, viciously pounding on the locked

doors with a heavy pipe. It's obviously having no effect and

he collapses with exhaustion and frustration.

!

GOD DAMMIT!

He.lowers his head and slowly... the "SOUNDS" return.

RATTLE.. SCRAPE... THUMP.

53.

Like a dripping faucet of annoyance, PAYTON bitterly turns

his flashlight quickly towards the corner. Wielding the

heavy pipe, he cautiously approaches.

SCRAPE... RATTLE.

WHO'S THERE!?

SCRAPE... THUMP.

IDENTIFY YOURSELF!

His flashlight pans up the wall to the ventilation shaft.

Dower...? That can't be... you-

The SOUNDS remain muffled, deeper within the wall, possibly

from inside the ventilation shaft.

PAYTON contemplates, eyes panicked. He climbs up the wall

and wedges the panel cover over the shaft opening, jamming it

closed with a screwdriver. He backs away, gripping the

weapon, ready for anything. He tries to control his

breathing as he sits... watches... and waits.

TRAP.

A blood droplet hits the floor by his feet and PAYTON wipes

blood off his nose with confusion and a nervous frown.

DISSOLVE THRU BLACK.

INT. REC ROOM - LATER

A pin-point of light appears at the end of a circular tunnel.

Slowly the light grows as BOWER approaches and cautiously

steps through a doorway and into...

A rec room with several rows of pool tables, video games and

a ran-sacked bar. The floor is heavily littered with broken

glass and BOWER wipes his finger across a wet surface on the

bar, tasting it with an eye brow raised.

He climbs over the bar, checks numerous cabinets only to find

more broken glass and emptied containers. About to give up,

he pops open the last cabinet and...

54.

POW! A FIGURE lunges out, a direct HIT under his jaw sends

him backwards over a table. The FIGURE jumps on top of him,

jabbing a blade toward his neck. He grabs the wrist just as

the tip begins to dig into his throat.

AAAAARRRRGF! !

A quick struggle ensues and just as BOWER is about to be

sliced open... CRACK! The ATTACKER is HIT and sent flying.

TANAKA has come to his rescue, twirling a pipe across his

palms. The ATTACKER rolls to her feet to reveal... NADIA.

She snatches a pool ball off the table and throws it directly

into TANAKA'S chest.

UUUGH!

She rolls across the floor, grabbing her knife and... BOWER

BLINDS her with his flashlight, raising the gun with a quick

whirl of the energy lever, laser sights flaring brightly.

HOLD IT!

BOWER ducks as a broken bottle WHIZZES past his face,

smashing against the wall. He raises the gun and...

KA-RAAAACK! A deliberate warning shot goes past NADIA and

HITS the bar, SHATTERING every piece of glass that's near by

and NADIA and TANAKA are both blown off their feet.

Knock it off! Both of ya!

TANAKA and NADIA slowly recover, both quickly try to find

their weapons on the floor.

Listen... nobody needs to get hurt here.

Both of you just... cool out. And stop

throwing that shit.

Her eyes dart with uneasiness as she finds her knife.

Let's all just... go easy here. I

understand it's been every man for

himself around here lately, but if we're

going to get out of this- A little God

damn solidarity wouldn't hurt.

55.

We can work together here. We all want

the same thing... right?

NADIA remains poised, ready to fight, knife raised. Sighing

with defeat, BOWER gestures, hands raised as he motions for

TANAKA and they slowly back towards the door.

(motioning to Tanaka)

Thanks... again.

TANAKA motions toward the emblem on his uniform and gestures

to himself.

Yeah, yeah. I get it. We can work

together on this, right?

TANAKA grins.

As long as we understand each other.

They head out of the room as... NADIA watches from the

shadows with a curious frown.

INT. CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER

BOWER and TANAKA head down the corridor, both of them

checking their backs as they come to a sealed doorway.

TANAKA is still wincing, rubbing his chest with pain.

Japanese- No Subtitles

Yeah... well no sympathy here. She left

me with a few sore spots too, pal.

They both go to work, attempting to wedge the door open with

pipes. BOWER looks back to see... NADIA. They back pedal

with weapons in hand and NADIA is unaffected, watching them

with a frown.

Listen, lady. We don't want any-

Who the hell are you?

56.

Huh?

You're... part of the flight crew?

Yeah. I'm... a corporal, I'm-

I didn't think there was any flight crew

left. What's happened to us?

That's what I'm trying to figure out.

Malfunction of some sort-

Gee, you think? Where are you going?

I'm heading for the reactor bay.

You just wake up?

Just joining the program already in

progress, yeah.

She eyes him over and TANAKA keeps the pipe raised.

You'll never make it.

Oh yeah? And why is that?

You're going the wrong direction.

She grimaces and turns, heading back up the corridor. BOWER

and TANAKA exchange a look. BOWER chases after her.

Hey? Wait a second- HEY?

SSSSH! Keep it down-

Hold on. Who are you?

57.

Nobody.

Wait- Can't join the team without a

name.

Team? Why would I want to join?

Because I need you to show me the way.

To the reactor? No thanks. Don't like

going that fax down. No one ever comes

back.

She continues up the corridor and BOWER grabs her arm. She

yanks away from his touch, squaring off, weapon in hand.

Hold on. Please- There's not much time

left before we lose everything onboard.

You understand what I'm trying to-

Do you know where this ship is headed?

I'm working on it.

Can you fly it?

Huh?

Can you fly it... if you have to?

Sure.

NADIA eyes him over, sizing him up.

I'll get you as close to it as I can.

But, I won't wait for you.

BOWER nods with a frown and she heads up the corridor. BOWER

and TANAXA watch on.

58.

Japanese- No Subtitles.

My thoughts exactly.

INT. CORRIDOR ATRIUM - LATER

LIGHTS FLICKER past as...

NADIA leads them down a long corridor that widens into an

atrium of shafts going into the darkness in every direction.

The further their lights pan across the shafts... a strange

assortment of odd colored algae and moss is revealed growing

up the walls of the shafts.

TANAKA keeps a watchful eye as BOWER frowns at the

surroundings.

You know where you're going? This

doesn't... "feel" right.

How long have you been awake?

Don't know. There's no way to tell time

in here. Two... maybe three months.

MONTHS!?

His voice echoes across the cavernous atrium and she glares-

Quiet! You wanna get us killed!?

How could you have- You telling me

people have been running around on board

for several months!?

Longer. I wasn't the first one up.

59.

Their flashlight beams continue across the enormous room like

two small searchlights. She leads them down into a side

shaft, their lights fade from view.

INT. BIO-LAB VAULT DOOR ENTRANCE - LATER

NADIA stops at the foot of a large steel door, gesturing for

them to crouch in the shadows, watching the corridor.

Where are we going? What are we doing-

i Shush! We're waiting.

Waiting for what-?

Quiet!

At the far end of the corridor, a faint BLUISH GLOW grows

stronger. Shadows are moving, growing closer.

NADIA gestures for them to stay put. TANAKA wants to leave,

but BOWER grabs his shoulder. They both grip weapons,

glancing to NADIA as the HUNTERS seem to be headed their way.

Ssssht!

The HISS and CACKLES of the HUNTERS grow closer and it seems

they're shortly going to be cornered and done for until...

A SHUDDER is felt, a FLICKER of LIGHTS approaching. She goes

to a control panel, holds down a switch and presses her palm

F across a scanner.

As the power SURGE passes, the control panel activates,

scanning her hand and the steel door activates with a MOAN of

hydraulics. BOWER notices her ID tattoo; BIO-T>>218>>076.

60.

The SHUDDER passes, killing the power and the door stops...

open only a half foot. She squeezes through and BOWER and

TANAKA quickly follow. They help her push it shut, sealing

the lock with a CLANK.

INT. BIO-LAB VAULT - CONT.

NADIA secures the lock on the door and jams a pipe in the

handles, her own added insurance.

Who are they? What the hell are those

things?

(shaking her head)

Never quite felt like sticking around to

find out. Running... is always the best

option. Believe me.

They're not- They can't be from this

ship. They don't seem... human. Do you

think something got on board or maybe

I something...

He turns to follow her and pauses to see...

The BIO-VAULT. A large lab storage compartment that has been

"lived-in" for a long time. A bed has been created from

assorted chair cushions and there is a collection of

scavenged items. NADIA adds to the items, dumping the

belongings of her bag onto the floor.

BOWER is in awe as he approaches an entire wall of glass test

tubes, a maze of micro-biological containers, glimmering with

condensation.

What is... all this?

Ecological Development, Embryonic

Charter. Livestock and wildlife re-

population.

The rows of glass tubes are labelled, ranging from mountain

goats to octopi, everything a new world would need.

61.

NADIA checks a few gauges on the wall of tubes and makes

adjustments on the monitoring system. He senses her

meticulous care for the material.

You've been living in here? You're...

protecting it?

It' seems to be the only living thing left

on this ship worth protecting.

Regardless of the situation, we still

have a mission. We've only lost about

thirty percent of the specimens, mostly

reptilian class. Never was big into

snakes anyway.

BOWER doesn't share the attempt at humor, wandering towards a

darkened digital screen on the wall, displaying a charted

graph of the new planet, TANIS.

(under his breath)

Tanis.

(off his look)

You couldn't remember?

No, I- I didn't remember just how far

away it is... until now. This was a

hundred and twenty-three year flight.

NADIA begins to gather a few items shoving them into a bag.

TANAKKA leans closer to the glass display with fascination,

tapping the tubes to see movement inside.

How could I have forgotten that?

It comes only in pieces. Even after a

few months. I know everything about this

vault and its systems... but I still

can't remember where I grew up. Or my

brother's name. Only pieces... And the

training comes back first. For good

reason, I guess.

BOWER eyes the darkened computer terminals, portions of the

consoles coated in algae.

62.

How could we have become like this... in

only eight years?

NADIA ponders the thought, rotating her jaw. She digs into

her supplies and tosses him a small block of orange material.

What is this?

Dehydrated meatloaf. House special. I

save 'em for the weekends.

BOWER sniffs it with a sneer and tries to break off a

piece... hard as a rock.

Do you know how long it would take to

turn dehydrated meatloaf into that?

How long?

I don't know, but it takes more then a

couple years to turn coal into fucking

diamonds.

You think we've over slept?

This ship was built to outlast our

children's children... and any engineer

could tell ya the warranty is running

out. I think we've been asleep longer

then you may think.

BOWER tosses the orange brick. to TANAKA and he sniffs it with

a grin, breaking off a piece. NADIA finishes gathering tools

and she slings the bag over her shoulder, "ready to go".

Do you have a radio?

(shaking her head)

Who the hell is there to call?

63.

I'm not the only flight crew officer

awake. We're not in this alone.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - LATER

PAYTON is asleep, seated on the floor, back to the wall. He

is awoken by...

RATTLE... THUMP, THUMP!

He instantly grips the pipe and turns on the flashlight. The

"SOUNDS" are closer then ever before as something is heard

crawling towards the panel in the ventilation shaft.

ANGLE ON/CLOSE UP

A vent panel lightly RATTLES, the metal begins to bend.

You want in? Come and get it you fu-

The screwdriver SNAPS and the panel hits the floor. PAYTON

raises the pipe, preparing to fight and... A desperate gasp

is heard from inside the shaft.

GALLO (O.S.)

Help... me!

PAYTON pauses, angling the light inside to see... GALLO, a

young flight officer, boyish innocence, short-cropped hair,

heavily coated in sweat, desperation in his eyes. His hair

is dark brown, the only person without pure white hair.

Who the hell... are you!?

GALLO is tightly wedged inside the shaft, squirming to crawl

out, trembling with fear and exhaustion.

Help me- I'm part- of the flight crew!

I'm- Please- HELP ME!

PAYTON oddly hesitates... before lowering the weapon. He

digs into the shaft grabbing GALLO'S hand, pulling him out.

GALLO collapses onto the floor, crumbling into a fetal

position, naked. His hands are locked in claw-like grips,

trembling uncontrollably. His gasps are rapid and unsteady.

64.

Easy... Easy. You're all right.

PAYTON runs to grab a towel and water. As he turns back he

notices GALLO'S hip and legs are sprayed with dried blood.

PAYTON kneels over him and GALLO spasms from his touch.

PAAARRRGH !

EASY! I'm here to help you!

PAYTON lifts the bottle to his lips, but the water runs down

his face, GALLO is frozen in shock.

Com'on. Try to drink a little. Here.

GALLO is unresponsive, wide eyes locked in a trance.

What's your name? Huh? Can you hear me?

Gallo.

What's that? Gallo...?

PAYTON frowns, mumbling the name with a hint of recognition.

Corporal... Gallo?

Yes, sir.

Where did you come from, Gallo?

The... bridge.

Saying the words seems to send him into a terrified trance.

The bridge!? Where are we? What's

happened? Can you tell me-

65.

The more PAYTON inquires, the more GALLO begins to unravel,

emotionally. His eyes widen with terror, breath quickening.

Corporal?

GASP, GASP, GASP...

Tell me... what happened?

GALLO is hyper-ventilating, eyes wide with terror. A droplet

of blood slowly builds in his nostril, refusing to drip. A

low whine is heard in his throat as... LIGHTS FLICKER past.

FLICKER CUT TO:

INT. VENTILATION SHAFT -- LATER

A hatch is broken open and BOWER'S flashlight beam peers into

a ventilation shaft. Twenty feet inside the shaft the walls

are collapsed, blocking passage. NADIA sighs with dread.

We can't get through this way.

I'd prefer to stay on foot.

It's the safest way to travel. And

there's only one other way to get through

that I know of.

And what is that?

INT, PERSONNEL SLEEP CHAMBER/MAIN CORRIDOR - LATER

Light breaks through as our gang wedges open a door, all

sneering in unison when hit by an odor.

Where are we?

Main corridor. Hyper-sleep chamber,

Personnel. Keep your light down.

66.

She leads the way along the wall and into a compartment of

unimaginable size, fifty foot high steel walls that channel

through the room. The walls are lined with hundreds of sleep

chambers, stacked ten high on either side.

They round a corner into the main atrium to see dishevelled

equipment and smashed control consoles, scarred from battle.

Old blood stains are worn deeply into the floor.

Jesus...

As they venture deeper inside they see numerous sleep-

chambers, open hatches and empty. The further they move

along the wall, more and more empty pods, too many to count.

My God. They're... empty. They're all-

Where the hell is everyone?

Keep quiet.

As the dozens and dozens of nameplates move past his

flashlight, BOWER pauses.

Wait a second. My wife-

Keep moving.

No, wait. My wife could be in here.

BOWER'S focus completely shifts, turning towards the pods,

reading name plates.

What does she do? What's her specialty?

She's not part of the crew, but spouses

were brought with. I remember there were-

Then she's not in here. This is

development settlers. Engineers.

NADIA quickly continues as BOWER tries to keep up.

Do you know where the family members are-

67.

Quiet!

They look to see TANAKA has fallen behind, crouched and

peering off towards the dark. He's poised like a dog on the

prowl that's caught a bad scent. They crouch and crawl to

the adjacent corner.

I don't see what he's looking at, do you?

We have to keep moving. We don't want to

stay out in the open for too long.

Especially in here.

Hey...? Let's go!

Distant THUMPS are heard somewhere in the room and they

tighten up with their weapons, eyes scanning. TANAKA refuses

to look away, poised like a hunter.

We can't stay herel

NADIA heads across the main floor and BOWER tries to wave him

on, but TANAKA is locked onto something, refusing to waver.

Let's get out of here! Com'on-

The THUMPS grow louder and TANAKA heads into the shadows.

BOWER hesitates, turning to follow NADIA through a barricade

of dishevelled equipment, leaving TANAKA behind.

INT. PROCESSING DOCK -CONT.

BOWER emerges from the barricades into a processing center

for loading passengers, darkened and in shambles. NADIA is

scanning the corridors ahead, choosing her path as BOWER

rushes to catch her.

We can't just leave him. We have to wait-

Then you wait... and find your own way.

56.

We can't split up the team, it's all

I told you I'm not going to wait. I'm

not gonna get myself killed for-

The guy saved my life twice already. I'm

not gonna leave him-

What do you think he's doing in there!?

How the hell should I know-

He's hunting! Bagging the next notch on

his belt. You wait for him! Good luck.

I NADIA quickly heads deeper into the room and down a darkened

and narrowing tunnel. BOWER hesitates with frustration.

Having to choose, he turns and chases after NADIA.

I They crawl through a maze of machinery and NADIA'S pace is

difficult for BOWER to keep up.

Wait! I'm coming-

There's a CRUNCH under his foot. He lowers his light,

picking up a small white object. He brings it closer to the

light to realize it's... A HUMAN FINGER BONE.

Jesus!

NADIA turns toward him to see...

Behind BOWER is a massive stack of human skeletons and

carcasses. They've just crawled into a pit of human remains.

They both back away with horror only to see a mountain of

carcasses on both sides. The only route is upward and they

begin to crawl up the slope on their bellies, over dead

remains.

69.

My God! Wait- Where are we going!?

NADIA suddenly grabs him, a quick jerk to silence him. A

SHADOW passes with a CACKLING HISS. They freeze, laying on

top of the remains, the bones CRINKLING underneath them.

The HISS grows stronger... and they look up to see a

silhouetted HUNTER crouched over like a gargoyle on a rafter,

leering in their direction.

Don't move.

They try to remain motionless, but the slope of the remains

i CRINKLES underneath them and the hill of remains begins to

slide. The HISS grows stronger.

They hold their position until... a SHUDDER approaches with

FLICKERING LIGHTS. The power surge is enough to ignite a

small landslide underneath them.

NADIA grabs his arm as bones snap and they slide helplessly

to the bottom within a landslide of bones and flesh.

The finally slide to a stop at the bottom of the slope and

BOWER quickly raises his weapon towards the rafters to see...

the HUNTER is gone.

Where... did it go-?

He pans the light and... ROAR! The HUNTER lunges at them

from five feet away. BOWER is STRUCK with enough force to

send him flying, CRASHING into a pile of bones.

NADIA spins around with a bladed pipe in her hands... but the

HUNTER is already gone. She spins back and... THWAP! She's

HIT from behind and sent with break-neck force into the

floor. The HUNTER pounces onto her back and a claw-like hand

grabs her hair... teeth opening towards her neck and...

POW! BOWER charges into the HUNTER, tackling it and they

spin into a brutal and distorted fight, seen under the

FLICKERING LIGHT. Even though the HUNTER is a smaller one,of

the pack, smaller then BOWER, its speed and strength is in-

human. It grabs BOWER by the head with a GROWL and...

70.

THWACK! TANAKA lunges out of the shadows, delivering a blow

with his bladed pipe into the HUNTER'S face. It's a hit that

would normally kill anything, nearly taking its head off.

The HUNTER stumbles, staggers and... HIIIISSSSSST! It HITS

TANAKA, sending him airborne, nearly knocking him out.

Under the FLICKERING LIGHT, BOWER, NADIA and TANAKA all

attack the lone HUNTER, taking all three of them to bring it

to the floor. They viciously pound it with pipes and blades

until it finally stops flinching beneath them.

Its pale white skin seeps a thick black colored blood. The

three of them back away, gasping and coated in its blood.

Jesus... Christ- Jesus-

Its face is smashed beyond recognition, but its facial

features are horrifically distorted, no sign of eyes under

the shredded tissue.

What the... what the hell is it!?

The HUNTER flinches and our gang back pedals with fright.

NADIA continues back pedalling, looking towards the rafters

to see... HEFLIN silhouetted, leering towards them.

BOWER quickly finds his weapon on the floor and HEFLIN slowly

begins to TAP his spear against the wall, echoing a continual

clank through the hull.

What is he... doing?

BOWER, NADIA and TANAKA quickly realize the effect as shadows

begin to move.., the room is filling with HUNTERS, alerted by

the tapping of metal.

Run.

They're... everywhere-

Run!

71.

A low gargled HISS is heard from HEFLIN'S throat.

NADIA is already gone. BOWER and TANAKA chase after her as

the walls come to life, HUNTERS swarming onto their path like

a pack of wild dogs.

Before diving through the barricade, BOWER looks back to see

HEFLIN and his pack have paused... to eat the fallen HUNTER.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/MAIN CORRIDOR - CONT.

It's a panicked and mad dash through the dark as they crawl

through the barricade and run back into the main corridor of

sleep chambers. HUNTERS can be heard closing on their trail.

They round a corner and NADIA jumps inside an empty sleep-

chamber, frantically trying to pull the hatch closed. TANAKA

follows suite, jumping inside another chamber and BOWER

scrambles, in search of an open door as footsteps are heard

quickly approaching.

In a frenzied panic, BOWER dives into the chamber with NADIA,

tugging the hatch closed.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER - CONT.

BOWER and NADIA are cheek to cheek in the cramped space, both

gasping for breath and dripping sweat with terror.

Through the porthole... silhouetted HUNTERS move past with

weapons in hand, search and destroy style. One HUNTER steps

up only a few feet from their porthole and they freeze,

holding their breath. Slowly the HUNTERS continue past, the

shadows slowly fading from sight.

What the hell happened to them!? What

the hell are those things!?

Shut-up!

They listen for a long moment... hearing nothing as BOWER

looks at his hand, finger tips trembling.

72.

INT. SLEEPING CHAMBER/MAIN CORRIDOR -- MOMENTS LATER

The hatch door inches open and BOWER peeks out. He and NADIA

crawl out quietly to see TANAKA waiting for them.

Japanese - No subtitles.

I second that. Let's get the fuck out of

here. Which way did we come from?

You want to go back?

No, I mean... let's just go!

We should go back. Find a different

path. I don't think we can get through

to the reactor bay from-

You said there was no other path.

I'm ready to explore other options-

Which way did they go-?

You really want to discuss it here!?

A RUMBLE is heard approaching and they all crouch in unison.

It's a power surge that sends FLICKERING LIGHTS across the

massive corridor and a BLINKING LIGHT is activated on a

nearby sleep-chamber. And then...

BANG! The hatch door is KICKED from the inside, white gas

erupting from the seam. Our gang quickly crawls toward the

shadows, crouching behind equipment to watch as...

Another KICK bursts open the hatch and a BIG PASSENGER crawls

out, slamming onto the floor with a shiver of agony, gasping

for breath, muscles twitching.

AA.AAAA.RGH !

73.

The BIG PASSENGER tries to get to his feet, gasping and

heaving, mumbling in Russian. BOWER tries to stand but NADIA

pulls him back.

What are you doing-!?

They'll hear him- They'll- We've got to

Footsteps thunder across the floor and... WHACK! The BIG

PASSENGER is STRUCK by a single blow from HEFLIN. The

HUNTERS have returned in full force and they come out of the

shadows from every direction, bladed weapons spinning.

BOWER pulls away from NADIA'S grip and prepares to intervene,

but TANAKA suddenly grabs him, holding him back with force.

With the BIG PASSENGER wounded and moaning on the floor, the

HUNTERS gather in a circle in ceremonial fashion, praying

thanks for the feast the ship has presented.

They watch helplessly as the BIG PASSENGER is then brutally

attacked and eaten alive. WEASEL leads other HUNTERS under

the flickering light in a demented and twisted celebratory

dance, a frenzy of pure evil.

This attack is heard more then it is seen, under flickering

lights, obscured view and most of the camera angles on Bower

and the groups reactions.

Frozen in horror, BOWER is tugged by TANAKA, following NADIA

to the corner where she's lifted a grate in the floor. They

climb into a shaft under the floor and into the dark as...

The SCREAMS and HISSES echo through the hull.

FADE THRU BLACK:

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - LATER

PAYTON is seated at the control desk, scrolling across radio

frequencies, talking softly into the boom mic.

PAYTON (INTO RADIO)

Bower? Do you copy? You out there?

Dead static. He sighs and glances toward GALLO, passed out

on a nearby bunk. He hesitates, holding the pipe as a

weapon, tucking it away and cautiously approached GALLO for a

closer inspection.

74.

He feels his neck for a pulse. He notices the dried blood

under his nose then gently pulls aside the blanket to see

GALLO'S identification tattoo, reading; FLT>>004>>012.

(frowning to himself)

Team Four. Flight Team... Four?

He glances up to see GALLO is now awake, staring at him.

What are you doing?

Just... checking you.

GALLO narrows his eyes, pulling the blanket tighter.

For what?

To make sure you're... alright. You...

passed out. You-

Who the hell are you?

Payton... Lieutenant Payton.

Lieutenant? You're... a lieutenant?

That's right. You're Team Four? You're

suppose to be... my predecessor.

GALLO deepens his frown, glancing around with disorientation.

You said... you came from the bridge?

GALLO shifts his eyes back on him, a bad topic.

Yeah. So...?

Where are we? I can't get guidance off

this system and I have no idea where-

75.

I don't know.

Well, what did you see? How did--

Listen, I'm not a navigator. Stars all

look alike. I don't know! How the hell

would I know!?

Sensing GALLO is about to break down again, PAYTON tries a

calmer approach.

Easy. I just want to make sure...

GALLO'S hands are trembling, uncontrollably.

.you're okay-

GALLO tucks his shaking hands under the blanket, defensively.

I'm fine.

PAYTON lowers his stare, hesitating, glancing across the

dried blood still splattered across his legs.

Is this your blood... Corporal?

Some of it is... sir.

Whose blood is it?

GALLOholds his stare, jaw muscles tightening.

They didn't give me any choice.

Who didn't?

There was something wrong with them.

i Something was wrong with who?

?6.

Off his stare, he understands the implication.

PAYTON (CONT' D )

Your crew?

It was... Pandorum.

(off his look)

Of the worst sort. They were- I

couldn't even- I had to defend myself.

Pandorum. Both of them-?

You don't believe me?

I believe you.

PAYTON goes to a nearby compartment, popping open a First-Aid

case; inside is a pistol-gripped syringe. He turns back and

GALLO squares off, clenched fists.

What are you doing? What is that?

It's just a sedative. Help you relax-

GALLO lifts his fists with a threatening posture.

Then you take it... and relax.

PAYTON backs off, setting the syringe aside.

Take it easy. We're on the same team

here. Alright?

Sure, Lieutenant.

PAYTON turns back to the control console and continues his

search across the radio frequencies. He discreetly pulls the

pipe weapon closer to his seat.

GALLO holds a hollow stare on the back of his head.

If you would have seen them... you would

have done the same thing... sir.

LIGHTS FLICKER past...

FLICKER CUT TO:

INT. SUB-LEVEL SHAFT - LATER

A FLICKER of LIGHT passes to reveal... BOWER crouched inside

a three-foot high, narrow passageway, a crawl space beneath a

steel grated floor. He follows the tunnel into a large silo

lined with octagonal filters.

TANAKA and NADIA are both looking for a way out, jabbing

pipes into the grate overhead, unable to budge it.

Didn't we come through here already?

We gotta find a way out.

Out? Why did we come iii-?

I was trying to get us out of there alive-

I thought you knew where you were going.

I was trying to save our asses-

Could've mentioned that after the first

mile. If I would have known we'd be

doing laps down here-

She angrily turns towards him, pipe in her hand.

I didn't need to help you at all! You

and the Hong-Kong Express would still be

playing ding-dong-ditch on level eight if

it weren't for me!

Their heightening confrontation is halted by...

HIIISSST! ( .and whispered Japanese)

78.

They pause to hear... CLASSICAL MUSIC echoing from below.

What the hell is that?

They climb down the shaft, jumping from filter to filter. At

one level they follow the sound into a shaft opening and

towards the soft, warm GLOW of YELLOW LIGHT.

They reach an open hatch, peering inside to see...

Inside an empty storage tank, a comfortable living space has

been created; numerous chairs surround a make-shift dinner

table made from storage crates with hand-made candles and

various food containers. The tank appears empty.

What is this!?

BOWER and TANAKA begin to climb through and NADIA hesitates

with uncertainty. They crawl through the hatch...

INT. TANK - CONT.

They climb into the empty tank, lined with valves and

filtration screens. The music is playing from crackling

speakers hidden in the darkened circular catwalk overhead.

TANAKA goes straight for the food and as soon as NADIA steps

through the hatch... a wire SNAPS! Levers clank and a mouse-

trap has triggered... SLAMMING the hatch closed. Trapped!

They instantly turn back to the door, yanking and tugging in

a panic. BOWER pans his light towards the catwalk only to

see a FIGURE (LELAND) scampering through the shadows.

Another lever is turned and... F00000SH! A stream of vapor

shoots out of several vents along the wall. The colorless

gas hits them and they instantly gag, choking for air.

With the slanted walls of the tank, there seems to be no

escape, but TANAKA runs up the wall, diving and grabbing onto

a pipe, climbing upward toward the catwalk.

The shadowed FIGURE (LELAND) quickly hobbles to the railing.

No, no, no. Back in der' big boy!

79.

LELAND uses a spear to jab TANAKA'S hand. He loses his grip

and tumbles back to the bottom of the tank. BOWER pulls

NADIR out of the way of the hatch.

Get back! BACK!

BOWER whirls the magneto lever on the weapon and he raises

the barrel towards the hatch, nearly point blank.

KA-CRAAAACK! The energy blast from the weapon hits the hatch

like a lightening bolt sending a tremendous JOLT through the

entire tank. A spark IGNITES the chemical gas and there's a

BURST of flammable gas that rolls upward into the catwalks.

LELAND is knocked off his feet and he GASPS with shock.

Whoa... WHOA! What the hell was that!?

LELAND is exposed from his hiding place, waving the smoke

from his face, bewildered. He's an older man who's lost all

vanity over survival. A thin-framed, spidery little man with

assorted clothing and a clutter of tools on his belt.

What did you do!?

BOWER whirls the lever on the weapon and points it at him.

Shut off the gas!

Where did you get that?

BOWER angles the barrel towards a vent blowing out the

chemical gas and LELAND jumps with fright.

NO-NO! HO-HO!

SHUT IT OFF!

LELAND scampers across the catwalk and quickly lifts levers

and twists nozzles, shutting off the flow of chemical gas.

His frown transforms to a grin, raising an eye brow as he

stares into the barrel of BOWER'S weapon.

80.

Fancy looking piece. Looking to trade?

INT. WATER PROCESSOR - MOMENTS LATER

CLICKITY-CLICKITY-CLANK? LELAND cranks an energy lever that

ignites a string of auxiliary lights around the tank,

widening their view of the unusual living space. Several

crates and an assortment of mechanical junk and supplies.

Com'in, com'in! Make yerselves at home.

Just throw the coats on the bed and don't

pet the rat, it's not mine. Just

watching it for a friend.

LELAND is excited to have guests as he runs along the

catwalks, lighting candles and sealing valves. They watch

him with leery suspicion, weapons still in hand.

You... live here?

Sublet. Got a roomier flat in the bow

for the off season, but from here, ya

just can't beat the commute.

He grins, expecting a laugh, but doesn't get one. LELAND

eyes BOWER over, admiring the uniform.

You really a flyer, or did ya grab that

off the rack? i didn't think there was

any crew left.

Left? Have you seen any?

Well, only the captain. informally, mind

you.

Captain? Where!?

Umm, up on B-Deck. Some on C. A few

pieces on the promenade and I think his

nuts are in the foose-ball game in the

rec room.

81.

He smiles, revealing several missing teeth. No one laughs.

Tough crowd. Com'in, com'in. Grab a

bunk. Three singles or will a queen do?

LELAND laughs to himself, digging through supplies. BOWER

scans the walls, seeing no way up to the catwalks.

Why don't you come on down so we can meet

properly?

Oh, no-no. No-can-do. I'm real touchy

to the dust bug and who knows where yawl

have been. No offense. There's

something funky going around. But don't

let that spoil the party. Here...

LELAND lowers down a bin filled with assorted food items,

using a wire to drop it to them. TANAKA sniffs it with

suspicion.

I LELAND (CONT'D)

It's Kosher.

BOWER peeks through one of the valves, turning to NADIA.

Where do you think we are?

I don't know. Gotta be somewhere below B-

deck.

Why, where you gotta be?

The reactor bay. Know where it is?

Reactor? Now why would you want to go

down there?

You just woke up, didn't cha?

82.

INT. WATER PROCESSOR - LATER

A small propane flame is lit. LELAND hovers over a make-

shift stove, heating a can of water. He pours in some powder

and stirs it up with the meticulous nature of a chef

preparing fine cuisine.

It's tough to properly season with a

motor oil base. But if you use your

imagination, kinda tastes like...

Herb and garlic dog shit.

Below the catwalks, TANAKA has found a spot to rest, NADIR is

using water to clean a wound and BOWER is peering through a

slit in a vent.

How long have you been awake?

Mmmm. Lemme think. What's today,

Tuesday? That would be about, mmm...

He counts in his head and across his fingers, carefully

calculating, then a grin.

No idea.

He turns back to his make-shift stove, chuckling to himself.

I quit counting after the band broke up,

ooooh twenty... thirty years ago.

BOWER and NADIR exchange a look of uncertainty. The

classical music begins to SKIP and without even looking

LELAND kicks a piece of equipment, correcting the music.

Then again, an hour in this place feels

more like... one-fifteen, one-twenty.

Know whatta I mean? HA-HP_W!

Not naming names but I'm writing a very

strongly worded letter to the airline.

LELAND chuckles, nodding to TANAKA. TANAKA glares.

83.

But I just treat each day like it's

Christmas. Festive and violent. Let's

eat; Shall we? Who needs a bib?

LELAND sets several bowls of soup into the bin and lowers it

to them with the cable. T_ANAKA is the only one interested,

sniffing the soup with a glare. LELAND winks.

BOWER takes a seat, showing exhaustion and defeat.

Those things out there. Could it have

been something... that crawled out of

your lab? Something that-

No. That's... not possible.

Then something got on board. Some kind

of life form. Something that-

Or something that was already on board,

with us in the hyper-bunks.

What does that mean?

it could have been the accelerator.

What?

It's the only theory I can come up with.

The synthetic enzyme in our feeding

tubes. The accelerator that would help

our bodies adjust and adapt to the

environmental conditions on Tanis. From

what I've seen... these things have

adapted... to the ship instead.

But, why would- You're saying we'll

become like them? Why would they be

affected like that and we're not-

I don't know. Like I said, it's the only

theory I can think of- Unless...

85.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

GALLO'S gaze is hollow and translucent as he stares through

the glass porthole in the empty sleep chamber, his mind is

deeply pondering. Pupils dilated.

GALLO is looking at the empty sleep chambers while PAYTON

remains at the control console, determined not to give up on

contacting BOWER.

Do you know the symptoms of Pandorum?

What?

Orbital Dysfunctional Syndrome.

Pandorum. Ever witnessed the symptoms of

first-hand?

I've seen it before. But nothing that-

It's not something you can easily detect.

Starts with a shiver. An itch. A slow

boil... and without being able to get off

the ship... there's no shutting off the

heat. It'll boil over, no matter what

you do.

GALLO is slowly pacing the room and PAYTON watches him with

uneasiness out of the corner of his eye.

You don't believe me.

I didn't say that-

How could they both have had it? The

odds are insurmountable.

I wasn't about to question any of your

86.

But, we all know Pandorum is greatly

affected by any substantial psychological

It has an emotional trigger effect.

(off his look)

That's what they say.

GALLO slowly rubs his temples, with hesitation.

How do you think you would react... if

you knew the truth?

The truth... about what?

INT. WATER PROCESSOR - CONT.

LELAND flips on dim flood lights, illuminating the upper

walls of the tank where... like ancient cave-drawings, a

I story has been crudely sketched out along the wall of the

tank. LELAND lurks through the shadows, telling the tale

with a campfire, spook story, flare of dramatics.

B0000OM! Oh, how the world cheered to

the thunder of it's mightiest creation.

Eylisium! The heaven for heroes, to

venture further and farther then any of

man's machine dared before it.

BOWER and NADIA watch intently as TANAKA lazily sips the

soup. The first image is off the ship's launch and LELAND

hobbles across to the crudely sketched image of three

figures, flight officers.

Three of our bravest... atop the watch

tower as we slept. A slumber deeper then

any have dared... with only three little

Indians left to mind the store...

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

GALLO slowly unravels his own tale as PAYTON watches on with

suspicion and caution.

87.

we were only into our second term. All

flight systems nominal. I'd picked up on

symptoms with my CO and 2nd Lieutenant.

Mild symptoms. Nothing I thought

would... become a problem. Until we got

the transmission.

What transmission?

GALLO'S eyes are welling up, his lip begins to shiver.

The final transmission. The last

message... from home.

INT. WATER PROCESSOR - CONT.

LELAND continues across his wall-drawings, the three pilots

pictured, receiving a radio call.

.until the last cry from home. All of

God's creation... ending with mere words

of encouragement. Mother Earth's last

call. Boop! Leave a message, momma.

LELAND presses a switch on a Jerry-rigged piece of equipment,

a disc player... speakers crackling with static. A VOICE

plays, heavily distorted.

Hoove arr awl dadz efft ah uz. Bood uck,

boogz guezz... ab hoobz deeb.

BOWER and NADIA are now completely engrossed in the story,

both getting to their feet and walking closer to hear.

TANAKA is asleep. LELAND is thrilled by their attention,

doing a dance as he plays the recording... over and over.

RECORDER VOICE (CONT'D)

Hoove err all wadz efft ah uz. Good

wuck, boogz guezz... abb hoobz deeb...

What is that... saying?

LELAND cranks a power lever, speeding up the play back with

eagerness, whispering along. The recording slowly grows less

distorted the more he cranks the lever.

88.

Yoove are all watt efft of uz. Good uck,

gog besh... ab Gogz deez. You are all

whadz left of uz. Gog besh... and Gogs

sbeeb... God blezz... and Gogz speeb...

Slowly LELAND'S whisper and the recording come into unison,

eerily echoing through the tank.

You are all that's left of us. Good

luck, God bless... and God's speed.

LELAND and the recorder echo throughout the tank as...

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

GALLO matches the echo with...

You are that's left of us. Good luck,

God bless... and God's speed.

Earth... is gone?

GALLO puffs across his hand with twisted amusement.

Wiped away. We ran a full sweep off the

grid and they were... gone. One day

there, the next... nothing.

In one day... it had to be nuclear or-?

Whatever it was, they knew it was coming.

Wished us well. We're all that's left.

PAYTON sits back in shock, shaking his head in disbelief.

Oh my God...

You can see why I was hesitant... to tell

even you. My fellow crew members didn't

take the news too well. I wanted to wake

the primary crew... but my 2nd Lt was

already over the edge.

89.

ODS came through with flying colors. No

logic, no reasoning left. No future, no

past, no hope. A dangerous mix when

you're stuck inside a tin can like this.

The blow was more then he could handle.

My lieutenant wasn't far behind.

Pandorum.

INT. WATER PROCESSOR - CONT.

LELAND moves past a wall-drawing of Earth destroyed, moving

to the image of the three pilots.

Three little Indians, with the burden to

bare... no more law and nothing left to

care. Three poor souls, destiny undone.

Chop, chop, chop... now there's only one.

The sketches reveal violence between the three pilots, two of

them killed, one remaining alive.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

GALLO'S hands are beginning to tremble as he struggles

through the story.

They were my commanding officers. Men

who had guided me through FT. I looked

up to these men. But... it wasn't them

anymore. They... were gone. They...

tried to... I had no choice. I-

With his body beginning to tremble, PAYTON tries to console

him, touching his arm. GALLO flinches.

Easy...

INT. WATER PROCESSOR - CONT.

LELAND continues across the wall-drawings, showing the one

remaining pilot all alone aboard the massive ship.

One little Indian left... all alone with

his doom.

90.

LELAND (CONT`D)

Refused to go to bed, stayed up to play

in his room. Oh, and what naughty little

games he would play with the slumbering

prey. Slayer, master, both God and the

Devil, some would say. The boy would grow

to manhood, a self-proclaimed King, ruler

of his vessel, home to his own sin.

The sketches show the lone pilot torturing and devouring

passengers from their sleep chambers as he grows old.

And then one day the king cast out all

those who had behaved, exiled into the

barren cargo holds to fend for

themselves... scavenging against the

others within their own domain.

The sketches show tortured victims forced out into the

corridors of the ship, the King returns to his sleep chamber.

LELAND (CONT`D)

King Lonely no longer wanted to play...

he yearned to see the morning Sun on a

Tanis day. He returned to his bed of

slumber, waiting for the day. But the

survivors lived on, as the King slept, a

whole new world of evil grew as we wept.

The seed driven beyond-

HOLD IT! HOLD IT!

you want me to back up?

Play that transmission again. I want-

Save yer questions til the end please.

We'll have a review.

LELAND continues his performance as NADIA leans toward BOWER

with concern.

Could that be real? You think that could-

I dunno. It can't be- It just-

91.

BOWER is quickly growing drowsy, slurring his words as he

takes a seat with exhaustion and disbelief. NADIR rests her

chin on her knee... eyes growing heavy as LELAND continues

telling the tale, softly like a child's bedtime story.

LELAND takes a peace of chalk-like material, drawing a new

sketch.

And now the newest chapter comes to us...

three weary travelers, guided by the

light. The new brave flyer, woken by the

dying machine.

He sketches Bower and his journey towards the reactor.

A gallant knight who will wake the fiery

beast, light the rockets torch that will

sail our mighty ship to port! A new king

to deliver us to paradise! Hail to the

new King... Hail!

LELAND looks to see... everyone is asleep. He adjusts a

nozzle that... is pumping a colorless gas out of the vents at

the bottom of the tank. With a slow forming grin, he blows

out a nearby candle, taking us into...

FADE THRU BLACK:

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - LATER

PAYTON'S eyes scan across the dim flickering computer screen,

a radar scan across a chart of planets... with no Earth shown

on the screen.

PAYTON is silently in shock as... GALLO watches him closely

from across the console.

How could they... how could they have

let this happen?

PAYTON slides his hands off the keyboard, his finger tips

i nearly twitching, an uncontrolled tremble. He tries to hide

his hands, sliding them under the console as...

GALLO watches him blankly before wandering away to let him

sit alone with the horrific realization. PAYTON shakes his

head, refusing to accept it.

92.

A low SHUDDER approaches, more powerful then felt before,

rattling the pipes as it passes with a FLICKER of LIGHTS

as...

FLICKER DISSOLVE TO:

EVALON is smiling towards BOWER as he kneels in front of her,

gripping her hands. As he speaks, her smile fades, slowly

pulling her hands away and...

INT. WATER PROCESSOR -- CONT.

The powerful SHUDDER is felt, amplified in the tank. NADIA

shakes awake to see... LELAND is kneeling over her, eyes wide

with hunger, deliciously sniffing her body. They both jump

with fright and yell in unison.

AAAAAEEIH !

NADIA jumps to her feet, choking and gasping, jabbing her

weapon toward LELAND, a small breathing tube clenched in his

teeth. BOWER and TANA.KA are woken by their exchange, dazed.

What are you doing!? What the-

He was- He was gonna fucking eat me!

(mouthful of tube)

Whaw!? I waddn't-

He gassed us! He was gonna- All of us!

LELAND is appalled, spitting out the breathing tube.

Gas! What gas!?

They see he's holding a fork and knife that he quickly tucks

behind his back. NP.DIA jabs the weapon and he shrieks.

NEVER!

THE SHUDDER shakes the tank with more force then ever before

as they watch the ceiling. It's followed by two quick

SURGES, higher pitch. NADIA looks to BOWER.

93.

What is that?

It's gone... into the final cycle.

What does that mean?

it means we have less time then I

thought. The last phase... before

shutdown. It means we're... done.

BOWER is oddly defeated, taking a seat, hanging his head.

Done!? What do you mean done? What do

we do? Hey!?

What difference does it make?

What are you talking about? You said you

could reset the reactor- That we could-

That there's a chance to-

For what? They're gone. Everything is

gone. There's no Earth to go back to,

We weren't meant to go back! We were

meant to go on. And now it's more

important then ever! We're the last of-

And what is left of us? What's left,

worth saving? This flight's over.

NADIA is angered by his defeat, shoving LELAND aside and

squaring off in front of BOWER.

What about your duty? What about... your

wife!? There's still a chance she's-

She's dead.

94.

You don't know that for sure!

I know...

NADIA grabs him with rage, glaring him in the eye.

DON'T DO THAT! DON'T GIVE UP ON ME!

Off her look, BOWER holds his stare, slowly seduced by her

will. They look is broken by... LELAND'S stereo system

CRACKLES with static, power slowly returning after the power

surge, music playing.

BOWER snaps out of his daze, turning to LELAND.

You got a radio?

Who the hell are you gonna call-?

DO YOU HAVE A RADIO!?

You promise to bring it back?

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

The radio speakers on the control console suddenly CRACKLE

with STATIC and PAYTON leaps forward in his chair, snapping

out of his daze. GALLO looks up with a frown.

BOWER (ON RADIO)

Payton? Do you copy? Can you hear me!?

He grabs the receiver.

BOWER! I'm here! Where are you?

95.

INT. WATER PROCESSOR/CATWALK - CONT.

Our group is now crowded on the catwalk above the tank,

huddled around an assortment of patched together electronic

equipment. BOWER is speaking into a receiver, bound together

with wire while LELAND cranks the power lever.

Storage Tanks, just below B-level. Mid-

ship Sector twelve... we think.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON vigorously cranks the power lever and slides his

finger across the screen of the ship's blueprint.

Y the other side of-

I BOWER (ON RADIO)

Payton, listen to me. Listen. The

I reactor is in its final stage. Its last

rotation. It's worse then we thought.

PAYTON looks to GALLO, who is silently watching with a hollow

glare from the corner.

BOWER (ON RADIO) (CONT`D)

The ship is dying and I think that's why

it finally woke us up. The entire system

is heading into permanent shutdown and

there will be no return. This entire

ship will float off into eternity with no

way of stopping it. We need to reset it.

Are you hearing me?

PAYTON and GALLO share a silent stare.

I hear you. How do we get you in there?

I need you to give me a path.

PAYTON and GALLO'S silent stare hangs in the air for a

moment, the tension between them unclear. PAYTON turns to

the console, quickly typing into the keyboard.

96.

INT. LADDER SHAFT/CORRIDOR - LATER

A flashlight beams cut into a shaft. It appears as if the

gang is crawling backwards toward us, until our perspective

realizes they're crawling down a long ladder.

They reach the bottom level where a distant RUMBLE has grown

louder. They follow the sound through a field of debris to a

clear path leading to an open hatchway.

BOWER checks the marker over the door and leads them down the

corridor, preparing to step through and TANAKA grabs him,

pulling him back.

What?

TANAKA motions toward the hatchway, shaking his head. He

i gestures for them to follow and leads them over debris and

through a hole, hidden in the paneling.

(Japanese - No Subtitles)

What did he say?

I dunno. But do what he says.

They follow TANAKA, crawling through the hole and into...

INT. LOADING PLATFORM

As they head across a loading dock, the room gradually grows

more disturbed and dishevelled. Battle scars and centuries

of wear and tear grow more and more evident as they cross.

The BLUE GLOW of light can be seen through the passageway and

a low RUMBLE grows louder as they approach. They crouch

behind a large industrial condensers to catch their breath.

I BOWER glances up to the surface of the condenser with a frown

and he touches it with his fingers to find an odd-colored

algae. He looks up to see it's grown all the way to...

Be freezes to see a small shadowed FIGURE in the rafters

above them, a smaller gargoyle-type silhouette, possibly some

type of guard outside the entrance to the reactor bay.

97.

They exchange silent gestures and TANAKA heads one direction

as BOWER heads the other... to corner it. The FIGURE begins

to move across the rafter as TANAKA flushes it out.

The FIGURE is forced to climb down, hopping to the floor,

BOWER waits with his gun raised. Out of the shadows steps...

A ten-year-old CHILD HUNTER.

BOWER flinches with shock. The CHILD is a younger version of

the hunters, awkward physique, pale skin coated with

hydraulic fluid, oblong shaped head, eyes hidden in shadow.

NADIR lowers her weapon.

Oh... my... God...

The CHILD suddenly crouches in a fighting stance with a

i gargled HISS from its throat, the light catching its eyes to

reveal WHITE RETINAS deeply hidden under a thin membrane of

I skin. Everyone is too stunned to react except for TANAKA,

Child! ? That's no child! What the hell

is it!?

TANAKA lunges, but NADIA blocks his attack. The CHILD HUNTER

erupts with a horrific SCREECH, HISSING at them before

turning and leaping back up and over the rafters,

disappearing into the shadows. They are speechless.

Not as cute when they're little, are

they?

TANAKA runs after it. It takes a moment for the rest to

react, chasing after.

INT. CORRIDOR/NEIGHBORING COMPARTMENT

They run down the corridor and into the neighboring

compartment, stacked with broken and discarded equipment.

98.

The CHILD runs up a wall of tubing and ducks through a small

hole punctured in the vents. TANAKA sighs with defeat.

My God. They're... breeding.

What!? What do you mean they? How could

they- That's impossible.

It appears the CHILD has alerted his group as the BLUISH GLOW

of flame can be seen growing stronger in the corridor, the

sounds of CACKLES and HISSES approaching.

Little bastard rang the bell.

They all quickly turn back, running down a side corridor and

into...

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER COMPARTMENT - CONT.

They crouch and hide inside a smaller compartment as... the

BLUISH GLOW passes outside the doorway. The CHILD appears to

be leading the group, silhouettes passing, more HUNTERS then

they've ever seen together before.

They silently share the horror of the possible numbers

they're up against.

This isn't going to work. Too many of

them. Have to turn back.

There's no where to turn back to. We

can't give up-

Told you this wouldn't fly.

You didn't tell us anything. You never

said that. You said you'd love to come-

Oh... then I forgot. This won't work.

Why not?

99.

This is where they live. Reactor is the

Keeper's temple.

They watch and wait as the shadows move past the doorway with

the GLOW of BLUISH TORCHES and vocal CACKLES.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON is pulling wires out from under the console and going

to the sealed doors where he's pulled apart the control

panel, preparing for a hot-wire.

GALLO watches him while slowly pacing the room.

What are you doing?

I think the direct channels are fried.

I'm gonna run a patch so we can get this

door open as soon as we're back on-line.

What's so important on the other side of

the door?

The bridge. As soon as we're up we'll be

able to take control of guidance. But

only from on the bridge.

GALLO continues pacing, throwing glances toward the empty

sleep chambers.

This ship is not dying.

PAYTON refuses to look to GALLO, continuing his work.

It's already dead. You really believe

that kid will be able to save this ship?

He can do it.

Twelve hours ago, he didn't know his own

name. Now, you think he's ready to re-

configure a nuclear reactor?

100.

PAYTON refuses to give him eye contact, continuing to work on

the computer as G_ALLO paces back and forth in front of the

sleep chambers, fingers rapidly twitching at his side.

He's the only shot we have. Gotta have a

little faith.

Faith? After what you know now, you can

actually say that with a straight face?

A little faith?

THAP. A droplet of blood hits the floor at GALLO'S feet.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER COMPARTMENT - CONT.

The GLOW of the HUNTERS slowly begins to fade from sight as

BOWER notices what he's hiding behind is an empty sleep

chamber, coated with dried blood and signs of violence. He

looks to the labelled name plates with a frown and wanders

deeper into the room.

NADIA follows him with a frown as LELAND and TANAKA remain

poised with weapons near the doorway.

BOWER'S walk slows as he moves past rows of sleep chambers,

nearly all of them have been opened and signs of violent

deaths left dried and splattered across the floor.

What are you doing? What is it?

These were... family members of flight

personnel.

She notices BOWER is holding EVALON'S photo and glances to

the row of empty chambers, slowly realizing his grief.

You think she's... here?

She's not here. She's dead.

101.

How do you know for sure? She could be-

She's not on this flight. She wouldn't

come with me. She wouldn't marry me.

(sigh of disgust)

That's why I came. There was nothing

left for me there. She stayed on Earth.

Gone... with everyone else. And I left

because of her.

His gaze begins to gloss over, taking it all in.

Well, then... she saved your life.

BOWER frowns on the thought, slowly nodding in agreement.

His eyes look to the label of the chamber he was led to, the

label reads; M. PAYTON. He mumbles to himself, memory

returning.

Marianne.

you... knew her?

I remember her. Payton's wife.

Who's... Payton?

I remember her. I remember-

His eyes pull focus, coming out of his daze, memories

returning with confusion.

Are you alright?

Com'on.

BOWER grips his weapon with a flexing jaw of determination,

heading back to where TANAKA and LELAND are waiting as we...

102.

M. PP_YTON'S name plate and the dried remains of her apparent

death lay in the foreground.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBERICONTROL DESK

THAP... THAP... THAP.

Droplets of blood hit the floor at GALLO'S feet as he paces

back and forth near the sleep chambers.

He's right about one thing. Once that

thing shuts down, we're as good as dead.

Nothing on this ship will ever turn on

again. Ever. Not the air, not the

lights, the heat... not even the pod's

escape launch systems.

PAYTON refuses to look up from the computer.

What are you saying?

I'mi12saying... once it's done. We're

done. But, we still have a way out of

this... before it's too late.

What are you suggesting, Corporal?

We can still launch ourselves in the

pods. Before the ignition systems are

completely dead, sir.

Launching ourselves... into deep space

when we don't even know where we are? We

wouldn't last more then a few days inside

those things. That's suicide-

A few days is better then what we have

left here. I'll take my chances. How

long do you think that reactor has been

sitting? That thing could melt-down when

he tries to fire the core. This ship

could be ripped in half-

103.

Stand down, Corporal. We're not going to

abandon anything and we're not going to

leave them behind-

We can't stay on this ship. You know

that as well as I do-

I said stand down, Corporal! That's an

order!

GALLO steps up behind PAYTON, his face revealed with a thin

stream of blood oozing from under his nose, dripping off his

chin, eyes hollow and pale. PAYTON refuses to look at him,

continuing to type.

INT. LOADING PLATFORM - CONT.

The HUNTING party has faded from sight in the opposite

direction, leaving the hatch open to the reactor bay.

This is our chance.

BOWER leads the way out of the hiding place, heading quickly

towards the open hatch where an eerie glow and rumble is

felt. They crawl through the hatch and enter into...

INT. REACTOR BAY - CONT.

They crawl out onto the top of a massive cylinder shaped

shaft, numerous catwalks lining the walls with nothing but an

abyss of darkness below them. An odor hits all of them in

unison.

This is it. We've got to get down there

before they come back.

BOWER looks for a path downward along the tangled metal of

catwalks, coated in algae. LELAND'S fear has instantly

surfaced, unable to move.

I House of the Keepers. A descent to Hell

itself. We can't... go in here.

104.

BOWER ignores his pleas, heading down a ladder into the

darkness, TANAKA and NADIA follow, pushing past him.

You're crazy... You can't-

Shut-up! Move!

LELAND stays behind, watching as they begin a perilous

descent down the walls of the reactor bay wall. Clinging

onto the pipes and railings of the catwalks, the odd-colored

algae grows more and more dense... a dim glow slowly coming

into view from below.

With a gap in the catwalk, BOWER leaps across, nearly losing

his grip. He looks down to see an odd pattern of white

shapes near the bottom.

Squinting into the darkness, he's unable to make out what

he's looking at and he manages to crawl down further,

reaching a gangplank that crosses to the towering reactor.

He motions for NADIA and TANAKA to stay put and begins

crawling across... towards a darkened control panel.

LELAND is nervously watching from above, leaning further over

the railing and... a pen-lamp slips free from his belt.

The pen-lamp CLANKS off one of the catwalks and tumbles past

BOWER... dropping to the bottom... hitting the floor and

illuminating the strange white objects covering the floor

as... DOZENS of HUNTERS, all sleeping. Their pale white

bodies are intertwined and over-lapped resembling an orgy of

the living dead.

The fall of the pen-lamp causes one HUNTER to instantly

spring to its feet, lifting its nose towards the air like a

guard dog checking the scent.

BOWER remains frozen, gripping the gangplank that hangs

twenty feet above the field of sleeping HUNTERS.

I Slowly the HUNTER returns to sleep, slithering its way back

into the folds of flesh and BOWER continues his crawl

across... reaching the control panel.

Upon seeing the sleeping HUNTERS, LELAND fearfully backs

away, exiting the room. NADIA and TANAKA grip the ladders,

watching BOWER, holding their breath in fright.

105.

BOWER grabs a vine, but it breaks away and he dangles over

the side, losing his grip. NADIA jumps across the gap and

climbs down, extending her weapon for him to grab. Together

they cling to the side of the reactor and BOWER taps the

control panel switches and... nothing.

His eyes widen with horror, quickly searching for a solution.

He slowly pumps a primer switch and... the light panel

flickers gently under centuries of dust and vegetation...

MATCH CUT TO:

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

A light gently blinks on the control console and PAYTON spots

it with a frown, running back from the door.

He's in! That's the reactor's activator

panel. We're going to make it out of

this. Trust me.

No response. GALLO'S shadow moves behind him, his voice

taking on a slight raspier and "older" tone.

Trust you? How can I trust someone who

isn't even honest with himself. Tell me?

PAYTON refuses to acknowledge him, continuing to monitor the

control panel. He discreetly slides his hand closer to the

pipe weapon as he senses GALLO'S presence behind him.

Gallo... you have to listen to me...

Carefully. You don't haveato-

GALLO steps closer behind him, his shadowed outline showing

an imposing posture, his voice is forced and unsteady.

Don't do that.

TRAP... TRAP... THAP. Blood drops hit the floor heavily.

Don't... do what?

PAYTON slides his hand further across the console, reaching

for the pipe weapon, eyes on the screen.

?06.

CONTINUED.

Don't talk to me like some child that

needs reassurance. Think I don't know

the risks? Think I don't know this ship?

Take it easy-

GALLO'S presence is felt behind him, his voice seeming to

grow raspier and uneven with breath, anger simmering.

I know this ship and what she's capable

of better then anyone. I know her... and

I know what she can and can't do.

Easy...

And this... she can't do! Why are we

even arguing. You know it-

I'm giving you an order...

You wanna stay here to die, that's your

choice, not mine!

.to stand-down... Corporal.

NOT MINE!

PAYTON shoves himself out of his chair, reaching for the pipe

weapon to find nothing! He spins to see GALLO holding the

pipe and the pistol-gripped syringe, glaring down at him.

The heavy streams of blood are oozing from his nose and ears,

insanity shown in his hollow gaze.

GALLO (CONT`D)

Who's being irrational here, Lieutenant?

Tell me? Who's being delusional!? Hmm?

PAYTON raises his hands, calmly submitting.

Think about what you're doing...

107.

I'm getting off this ship. My flight's

over. OVER!

Another panel on the console begins to gently blink as...

INT. REACTOR CONTROL TERMINAL - CONT.

BOWER and NADIA cling to the side of the reactor, quietly

flipping switches and entering codes as... the sea of HUNTERS

sleep below them.

BOWER unfolds the auxiliary power lever, each movement

creating a CREAK of rusted metal. He grips the handle and

slowly begins to turn the magneto crank. The CREAKS of

rusted metal and the low WHINE of magnetos grows louder.

HUNTERS begin to stir in their sleep as NADIA watches them

with fright.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL, DESK

GALLO is jabbing the pistol-gripped syringe towards PAYTON,

motioning him closer to the sleep pods. He motions and

PAYTON kneels at the panel... entering the code.

This won't work...

Shut-up.

GALLO jabs the syringe gun towards the back of PAYTON'S head

while putting one foot inside the pod.

just think about what you're doing-

SHUT-UP!

PAYTON continues entering the launch code as GALLO steps

inside with his other foot.

It wasn't the crew that was sick, was it?

Finish the code...

108.

What did you really do to them...?

GALLO slides into the pod and...

FINISH IT!

PAYTON hits a key and LIGHTS BLINK. GALLO looks away for a

second and PAYTON suddenly grabs the hatch lever... SLAMMING

it closed. He cranks the latch, locking GALLO inside.

WHAT ARE YOU DOING!?

PAYTON wedges a pipe through the handle as GALLO violently

kicks the hatch.

For your own good-

WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING!?

You're not well, Corporal. You just need

the proper treatment-

LET ME OUT GOD DAMMIT! OPEN IT!! THAT'S

AN ORDER MOTHER FUCKER!

This isn't your fault-

I'LL FUCKING CARVE YOU UP- HEAR ME!?

I'LL GUT YOU LIKE A FUCKING-

Your mind... has turned against itself.

GALLO EXPLODES with RAGE... POUNDING on the hatch with a jack-

hammer of fists, bones shattering in his own hands. PAYTON

ignores his screams, going back to the console and typing

I into the keyboard.

OPEN THIS HATCH CORPORAL!

E CUT TO:

109.

INT. REACTOR CONTROL TERMINAL

BOWER cranks the hand lever faster and faster, the MOAN of

magnetos growing louder and louder. He gives one last spin

and hits the primer switch. A split-second of nothing and

then the panels brightly come to life. The digital panel

reads: >> ROTATION SEQUENCE >> CODE INITIATE TO PROCEED >>

BOWER takes a sigh of relief and glances to see NADIA is

frozen with fright. He follows their eye-line to see the

entire floor of HUNTERS are awake, heads turned towards them.

HEFLIN steps closer in their direction with a HISS.

BOWER gasps and the entire pack of HUNTERS moves toward them

and... suddenly, TANAKA bangs his bladed weapon against the

railing with a heavy CLANK! The HUNTERS instantly turn

toward his direction and TANAKA throws his weapon, HITTING

one of the HUNTERS directly in the head.

TANAKA jumps to the neighboring catwalk and breaks through a

hatch, coated with vines and vegetation. HEFLIN screeches a

command and the HUNTERS ignite in a chain-reaction, grabbing

their weapons and taking chase like a swarm of attack dogs.

They climb the wall with inhuman speed and rush out the

hatch, following TANAKA.

Hurry! Go!

BOWER turns back to the panel, flipping more switches and

continuing the process as the reactor begins to HUM as...

INT. LOADING PLATFORM

TANAKA is running at full sprint, bounding over dishevelled

equipment and weaving through debris as the pack of enraged

HUNTERS emerge from every direction to follow his path.

One HUNTER gains quickly at a sprinter's pace and TANAKA runs

directly for the open hatchway. (The hatchway they detoured

earlier.) He dives through as the sprinting HUNTER is almost

upon him.

A booby-trap is sprung, hydraulic pistons SNAP a razor-wire

that "clotheslines" the HUNTER, nearly ripping him in half as

TANAKA hits the floor, rolls to his feet and keeps running.

HEFLIN and the HUNTERS slash the tangled snare with their

weapons, trying to break through.

110.

INT. REACTOR BAY - CONT.

BOWER types quickly, flipping numerous switches and... a

SHUDDER is felt, the tower begins to TREMBLE with a low bass

MOAN, like an engine trying to turn over.

Com'on...

NADIA looks back to see there are still HUNTERS in the

reactor bay, ones who didn't join the chase, slowly coming

out of the shadows, crawling up the walls.

Bower...?

I'm going as fast as I can-

He hits the final key as NADIA grabs his shoulder. He turns

to see... WEASEL and numerous HUNTERS have them surrounded,

waiting to pounce. With nowhere to go, they are done for as

WEASEL CACKLES a command, the HUNTERS moving in, just as...

SHIIIISSSSH! High pressure steam erupts from the reactor's

pressure relief valves. The HUNTERS back pedal in fear as

the ventilation system ignites... fresh oxygen hits the blue

torches... BURSTING into BRILLIANT ORANGE FIREBALLS..

The HUNTER'S scatter in a panic as the BRIGHT FLAMES are

blinding and a tremendous SHUDDER travels through the ship

like an earthquake...

MATCH CUT TO:

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

The SHUDDER hits the control desk, rattling the monitors and

1 WARNING LIGHTS and BUZZERS ignite as the ship feels full

power after centuries of laying dormant.

I GALLO slows his POUNDING, blood coating his fists.

I My God... he did it! He did it.

The SCREENS FLICKER BRIGHTLY, all of the systems engaging.

GALLO is shocked, pressing his face against the glass,

peering across the computer terminals that are igniting.

Let me out. I can... help.

PAYTON ignores him, typing rapidly into the keyboard.

I'll help you! Please- I can help!

PAYTON runs over to the security door and hits a switch on

the sensor. The door doesn't react.

What are you doing? You can't- You're

trying to get on the bridge?

PAYTON runs back to the console, typing into the terminal.

You don't want to go in there, Corporal.

PAYTON throws him a glare, continuing to type in commands as

the room erupts with activity.

GALLO (CONTT' D )

What are you going to tell them? Huh?

How are you going to explain that?

shut-up.

They'll know what you did.

SHUT-UP!

TNT. REACTOR BAY - CONT.

Other HUNTERS have retreated away from the reactor, cowering

in fear with the exception of WEASEL, enraged by the temple's

disturbance. He HISSES as he lunges for BOWER. Trying to

duck, they SLAM into the reactor wall and CRASH to the

catwalk below.

112.

WEASEL has incredibly quick reflexes as he springs back to

his feet just as BOWER charges into him, slamming into a wall

of burning algae. The fire quickly spreads across WEASEL'S

skin, igniting the oil that's been rubbed across his body.

With WEASEL SCREECHING wildly and engulfed in flame, BOWER

viciously continues pummeling him, throwing a rage of blows

until the body stops twitching. The flames begin to catch on

BOWER'S arms and NADIA pulls him back.

They look to see most of the HUNTERS fleeing the room, but

others have grabbed weapons. BOWER grabs her arm, pulling

her towards the hatch.

INT. LOADING DOCK - CONT.

As BOWER and NADIA run, the ship comes to life all around

them, every LIGHT FLASHING and every mechanism ENGAGING at

full power. A startling contrast of blinding white walls and

glowing floors as they run down the corridor.

INT. CORRIDOR ATRIUM - CONT.

STEAM ERUPTS from pipes and LIGHTS BLINDLY FLICKER as HUNTERS

scatter and run off in separate directions.

Slowly, TANAKA emerges from a hiding place, dropping down

from the rafters overhead. With a grin he turns to head back

the other direction to see...

HEFLIN waiting for him.

They stare one another down, both raising their bladed

weapons as LIGHTS shatter and implode around them from their

own intensity.

HEFLIN lunges with a HISS and blades CLASH!

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK

PAYTON rapidly pounds his fingers into the keyboard and...

LIGHTS activate... causing one of the security doors to

engage... sliding open. But, it's the wrong door, revealing

a corridor leading endlessly into the back of the ship.

113.

Where do you think you're going?

PAYTON continues to work the control panels, looking to the

sealed door on the other end of the room.

Think about what you're doing, sir-

GALLO pushes his knees against the hatch, the pipe beginning

to bend, the seal CRACKING open.

You don't want to see what's in there-

INT. SLEEP CRAMBER/MAIN CORRIDOR

The control panel on a sleep-chamber is FLASHING as a

passenger KICKS his hatch open from the inside. The haggard

and bewildered passenger crawls out to find himself in the

middle of CHAOS. Before he can get a breath he's attacked by

HUNTERS.

What was once a dark and haunting chamber of metal, is now a

disco tech from hell as lights FLASH across the corridor in

what appears to be a massive riot, PASSENGERS and HUNTERS

fighting.

ANGLE ON/CRANE UP

BOWER and NADIA run across the top of the sleep chamber wall,

thirty feet above the havoc that's ensuing below. A LIGHT

BULBS BURST as...

MATCH CUT TO:

INT_ ATRIUM - CONT.

Metal blades SPARK as they connect between HEFLIN and TANAKA.

The sword play is crude, but powerful and brutal. HEFLIN

can't match his skills and pile-drives him, ripping into him

with his own bare hands and a horrific SCREECH.

114.

TANAKA tries to grab a hold of him, but HEFLIN digs in with

his teeth, biting into his stomach. TANAKA screams, hitting

HEFLIN'S head with everything he's got, but he won't let go.

TANAKA lifts HEFLIN'S feet and ROARS as he charges himself

directly into the wall, neck bones SNAPPING! HEFLIN goes

limp, dropping to the floor dead as TANAKA gasps... looking

down to see the damage has been done, blood flowing heavily.

He takes a breath, turns to exit FREEZING to see... the CHILD

HUNTER standing alone, sensing the death of HEFLIN with

almost an expression of sorrow. TANAKA lowers his weapon

and... THWACK! The CHILD stabs TANAKA in the chest with a

small bladed weapon.

TANAKA gasps with shock, collapsing to his knees, eyes wide

before going to the floor. The CHILD begins to feed.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/MAIN CORRIDOR

BOWER and NADIA climb to a cat-walk only to see HUNTERS are

following their trail. They run to a ladder and spot LELAND

already climbing above them.

Go... GO! GO!

Half way up, LELAND looks back to see them coming with

HUNTERS close behind. He gives them a look before closing

the hatch and latching it.

You snake bastard- OPEN IT!

INT. CORRIDOR - CONT.

With the YELLS muffled under the hatch, LELAND runs towards

an open door at the far end of the long corridor.

Inside the door at the far end... PAYTON is at the control

console, quickly typing into the keyboard. He hears the

E hatch CRACK open and he spins to see GALLO, out of the pod,

with a twisted grin, holding the pistol-gripped syringe.

We both know who needs this shot...

115.

PAYTON counters with the bladed weapon.

Who's the one suffering... sir-

I MEAN IT!

PAYTON lunges with the weapon, RAGE in his EYES as... GALLO

jabs with the pistol-syringe, they lock hands, grabbing one

anothers wrists... slamming into the wall.

Upon IMPACT with the wall, GALLO suddenly appears slightly

older, his voice lowering in level.

Corporal...

PAYTON slams him against the wall, making him older.

STOP IT!

PAYTON slams him again, a FLASH that reveals GALLO has aged

almost matching PAYTON, their voices sounding the same...

Your mind... has turned against itself,

I'll FUCKING CARVE YOU UP!

Within the struggle, hands grab at weapons, a wrist is

twisted... lining up both of their identification tattoos to

be identical... FLT>>004>>012>>.

The syringe is stabbed into skin. The trigger fires liquid,

injecting the chemical into someone's arm as their voices

converge, over-lapping at first and becoming one voice...

It's for the best... Corporal.

LELAND runs up the corridor, through the doors and into the

room, gasping for breath, pausing to see...

116.

PAYTON is ALONE. He's just injected the syringe into his own

wrist. He's the only person in the room. Heavy blood

streams are running from his nose and ears.

Y77e will now refer to PAYTON by his real name, GALLO.

LELAND and GALLO exchange a look... GALLO seeming to snap out

of his trance. LELAND approaches, wheezing for air.

We made it! We- I'm with your boy. I

was the one helping with-

GALLO suddenly SLASHES his throat! LELAND reels back in

shock, throttling his own neck in horror, blood gushing.

GALLO casually turns back to the console, continuing to type

as LELAND tries to cry out, his voice gargled with blood as

he staggers, collapsing to the floor. GALLO hits a key and

LIGHTS IGNITE, the last door finally engaging.

GALLO sigh with relief as the doors slide open revealing a

corridor of stairs leading to the bridge. A warm and gentle

smile widens on his face.

Captain on the bridge.

He heads toward the bridge, while flipping another switch

that ignites the opposite doors just as...

BOWER and NADIA angrily burst through the hatch in the floor,

jamming it behind them and run up the corridor. They see the

doors sliding shut.

That's it! GO! Go for it!

With HUNTERS hot on their trail... they run full sprint

towards the sliding doors. HUNTERS lunge out of side

corridors with SCREECHING HISSES as BOWER and NADIA dive

through the sliding doors...

One HUNTER is crushed by the doors., split nearly in half with

a heavy THUD of steel and a MOAN of hydraulics. The HUNTER

spasms wildly, kicking and clawing as BOWER and NADIA back

pedal into the room. HUNTERS gather at the gap, stabbing

weapons between the doors, trying to crawl through with

SCREECHES and HISSES of rage.

117.

BOWER and NADIA back further away, turning to see the room.

The original room that BOWER woke up in now looks quite

different with all the systems engaged, BLINDING LIGHT coming

from the monitors and computer terminals.

They move through the room, passing the empty sleep chambers

and the control console, seeing the entire pathway of dripped

blood across the floor.

Where's... your lieutenant?

He's not my lieutenant.

She frowns off his look and turns to see... LELAND on the

floor in a pool of blood, throat slashed, dead.

BOWER pulls the gun and heads into the open doorway leading

towards the bridge as NADIA follows behind.

INT. COMMAND BRIDGE - CONT.

A tunneled stairwell widens out into the main flight bridge.

A stunning sight, a split-level glass control deck, rows of

blinking control panels and flight chairs. It appears

undisturbed, a thin layer of silt floats out from under their

footsteps.

BOWER leads the way, panning the weapon throughout the room

with no sign of GALLO. On the far wall; cockpit windows

coated with a black fungus that obscures the view, but hints

to the illusion of outer space, a haze of cosmic dust without

stars.

What's happened... to us? Where are we?

BOWER goes to the nearest control console, tapping the

keyboard. The computer instantly responds, data scrolling

across the screen.

Flight log. It'll tell us how long we've

I been out... and how far we've gone.

BOWER types in a command and the computer begins to scroll

through the flight computer's time-code. Starting with the

launch date and time the numbers begin to roll faster and

faster. BLIP... BLIP... BLIP.

118.

NADIA walks towards the windows and suddenly jumps back with

fright to realize one of the flight control chairs has a

FIGURE sitting in it. GALLO, motionless and gazing toward

the windows.

Off her gasp, BOWER grabs his gun and approaches as the

computer time-code continues to roll even faster with no sign

of slowing... months becoming years.

BOWER approaches from behind GALLO... his identification

tatto now clearly visible... FLT>>004>>012>>. He cranks the

lever on the gun with a WHINE of magnetos and the laser

sights flare brightly onto GALLO'S back.

Seems my little memory lapse has finally

worn off... "Lieutenant".

BOWER slowly approaches, moving closer to his profile, the

stream of blood from GALLO'S ear shown running down his neck.

Mine too.

Who the hell are you?

GALLO keeps his gaze towards the windows, emotionless.

You're team four. Why would you...

switch bunks? Pretend to be someone

else? What would you be wanting to hide?

Who the hell are you?

I was younger then you when I first came

on board. Funny, I can't even remember

what it was like... before this flight

began. It's all I know.

You were the one... who first received

the final transmission. Who refused to

go back to sleep. You stayed awake...

for all those years. What were you

doing... what crimes were you hiding from

when you took Payton's bunk?

The time-code display rolls faster, years rolling into

decades... BLIP, BLIP, BLIP.

119.

How the hell would you know all that?

Is it true? What have you done to us?

Where are we now?

GALLO lazily nods towards the windows.

Go ahead. Take a peek. You tell me.

BOWER hesitates, looking toward the darkened windows. He

stays with the weapon on GALLO as NADIA wanders toward the

front control console, towards the glass.

With the lights fading on the weapon, BOWER gives the lever a

quick whirl, motioning the barrel closer.

GALLO (CONT ' D )

What are. you gonna do, Bower? There's no

one left to hand out merit badges. No

one left at all.

And that makes it okay? To play God?

You think God survived? He's gone...

with the rest. There's no one left to

judge you, Bower.

NADIA approaches the glass, squinting towards the heavily

smudged glass. She frowns, trying to wipe away the layer of

sludge.

Judgement will come for you. You think

you could cover it? Your victims

survived. Evolved. That's your creation

out there. Your crime.

BOWER jabs the gun into his back with force.

And you thought you'd be able to hide it?

Who would ever suspect that? Who would

ever remember? I remember.

NADIA rubs the glass with her hand, squinting into the

darkness. The time-code display rolls faster, decades into

centuries... BLIP, BLIP, BLIP.

120.

No world left. No law. No order. Only

us. You the law now? You gonna be the

one that brings order to what's left?

Wanna take a shot at it? I did my best

with what I was given. Wanna be King for

a day? Give it a whirl, Corporal. I'd

like to see how you fare.

With the laser sights fading on the weapon, BOWER quickly

cranks the power lever, keeping the gun raised-

A slow grin spreads across GALLO'S face as he finally looks

to him, revealing the thick streams of blood that have

dripped from his nose, coating his chin and neck.

GALLO (CONT`D)

Try to imagine it. Imagine... yourself

for five minutes without morality. I'll

bet you'd surprise even yourself, kid-

Shut-up.

What's out there?

NADIA shakes her head, rubbing away the sludge from the

glass, squinting harder.

Imagine... us both. What's left to stop

you? I offer you the kingdom and you-

There's still quite a few sleeping

beauties down there... a thousand

flavors. You up for a little window

shopping?

Shut-up!

(licking his lips)

I wanna see it. I'll bet you'd be a

BOWER suddenly shoves him out of the chair, slamming him to

the floor, jabbing the barrel into the back of his neck.

121.

There will be law... in whatever world we

create. And you'll pay for what you've

done. Believe me.

GALLO chuckles with his face pressed to the floor.

A real boy scout, is that it, kiddo?

HEAR ME ASSHOLE?!

NADIA suddenly GASPS... flinching away from the cockpit

windows, having just seen what's outside. Her expression is

ghostly as she back pedals.

What is it?

GALLO looks up with a blood-soaked grin.

What do you see!?

You ready for the new world, corporal?

BOWER keeps the gun on him as he goes to the windows. NADIA

has a ghostly expression, unable to speak. BOWER leans

toward the glass, squinting into the darkness and...

SWISH! An object moves past the outside of the glass. He

leans closer, squinting to see... a school of ALIEN FISH dart

past. The shin is underwater.

BOWER staggers in shock, back pedalling as GALLO continues to

chuckle.

We've... we've already crashed. We've

already... we're...

The time-code display rolls centuries past, more then a

thousand years accounted for as it finally slows to a stop.

BLIP... BLIP... BLIP.

We've been... down here... all this

time!? All this... time-

122.

BOWER staggers against the console in shock,. the weapon

lowering to his side.

I guess this thing does land itself.

Just doesn't float too well.

BOWER lunges towards him and GALLO is ready for this one,

quickly countering his move and SLAMMING BOWER into the

console. He unleashes a vicious BLOW into BOWER'S throat.

BOWER collapses, choking for air and GALLO kicks the gun

away. He kneels over BOWER, slowly pulling out a blade.

G_ALLO (CONT'D)

And you thought you could be King!?

He slides the blade under BOWER'S neck and... there's a WHIRL

of magnetos.

He looks up to see NADIA cranking the lever on the energy

gun. She tries to turn the gun towards him and...

GALLO lunges toward her just as she's able to FIRE! The

BLA..ST of energy goes into the console with a CRACK of

1 THUNDER, knocking everyone off their feet. Shattered glass

and metal HIT the cockpit window like a spray of shrapnel...

.sending a thin crack across the surface of the glass.

She struggles to crank the lever again as GALLO charges,

hitting the gun away. He SLAMS her over the console.

My apologies. Ladies first... of course.

ANGLE ON/CLOSE UP

The crack on the window begins to spiderweb across...

GALLO grabs her hair to expose her neck and angles the blade

upward, forcing her to take a GASP as...

BOSSSH! Water explodes through the windows, hitting the room

like a hundred fire hoses. GALLO is hit directly and thrown

across the room as NADIA and BOWER are engulfed by the blast

of black water, sent tumbling.

123.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER/CONTROL DESK - CONT.

The tremendous ROAR of rushing water rolls them down the

stairwell and into the sleep chamber compartment in a raging

torrent, a tidal wave slams into the wall.

BOWER grabs onto NADIA and they claw themselves along the

wall as computer terminals SPARK and LIGHTS go black. He

pulls her to a sleep-chamber and he jumps inside the open

hatch, pulling her with.

NO!? Are you crazy-

GET IN!

He pulls her inside and turns to the control panel. He hits

the keypad to read: >>> DETACHMENT INITIATED >>>

BOWER struggles to close the hatch as water rushes in,

SLAMMING it shut on top of them.

GALLO struggles to keep his head above water as the fast

moving current SLAMS him into the edge of the doorway. His

I fingers claw at the manual lever for the door, tugging and

tugging with no effect as the water rises above his head.

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER

BOWER and NADIA are squeezed together inside the pod as water

quickly rises above the porthole.

Not like this! I can't- like this!

Hold on!

Under the roar of the rushing water, hydraulics ignite.

Micro-jets FIRE and WHOOSH! The pod launches, shooting down

a tunnel until they're HIT with a tremendous JOLT.

They are sent spinning into a wild tumble as bubbles and gas

erupt across the outer surface. BOWER and NADIA slam into

one another as the chamber turns end over end.

Its roll seems to slow for a brief moment and BOWER squints

toward the porthole to see...

124.

They are pulling away from the side of the ship. The

exterior hull of the massive space ship slides past at a high

rate of speed with a swirl of ocean water and bubbles.

BAM! The pod SLAMS into something as SPARKS fly and seals

are ruptured as WATER sprays in with a blinding BLAST. The

chamber is sent into another violent roll as NADIA and BOWER

tumble head over feet, as if caught within a washing machine.

The chamber finally steadies as water washes across the

control panel, one last burst of sparks knocks out the

lights, taking them into BLACK.

Only their gasps are heard as they squirm towards the upper

corner... only a foot of air remaining.

He grabs the mask connected to tubes in the side and pulls

the straps over her head.

I What are you doing!?

1 Put it on!

No! I can't- Not like this! I'm not

going to wake up and drowned-

PUT IT ON!

He pulls it over her face as the water rises with only

several inches of air inside the chamber. BOWER gasps

desperately into the corner.

NADIA gasps the air through the mask, making her eye-lids

droop, slowly going unconscious. BOWER gasps one last breath

and the water rises over his head.

BOWER watches her body go limp and squirms for air as... a

warm GLOW of WHITE LIGHT grows brighter through the porthole.

As sunlight dances through the porthole, he kicks at the

hatch and...

125.

EXT. OCEAN SURFACE - DAY

BOWER kicks open the hatch, gasping for breath. A gentle

breeze ripples across the water with a sunlight flickering

across the surface of an ocean.

He pulls NADIA out of the chamber, ripping the mask off her

face. Her eye-lids slowly begin to flicker back to

consciousness.

Hey...? Hey?

She chokes on the air and struggles to orientate herself,

looking up to see him gazing down at her, coated with bright

sunlight.

Where are we? What happened?

It's all right. It's safe to wake up

this time.

With eyes of disbelief, they turn to see...

They sit on the edge of the sleep chamber as it lightly bobs

within the ocean waves. They're just off shore from a

stretch of mountainous tropical islands with waves crashing

against the beaches. The unusual shape of the islands and

their geography are nothing like we've ever seen on Earth.

Several moons dot the sky and the sun is rising with a

brilliant glow on the horizon.

FADE TO BLACK:

INT. COMMAND DECK

Pitch black. A low CHURNING is heard, a motor that is

pumping as the water lowers, allowing us to see across the

dishevelled command platform, the walls dripping with water.

The water is being drained through the grates in the floor as

unseen bilge pumps are heard loudly WHIRLING. The pump

motors whine down and shut off as...

A hand flips off the switch for the ventilation ducts. It's

GALLO...

126.

standing at the console, having changed clothes and recovered

from the ordeal. He examines the empty tank where BOWER'S

sleep chamber once sat. He eyes the other sleep-chambers,

deeply contemplating.

He goes back to the control console, scanning across the

numerous surveillance monitors that reveal...

PASSENGERS and HUNTERS engaged in a variety of activities all

across the ship. Some are seen fighting, some searching for

food, some searching for a way out, some alone weeping. A

kingdom, for the taking.

He pulls out a coffee packet and slowly begins mixing himself

a cup, deeply contemplating as he looks across the screens.

He glances over to see... YOUNG GALLO, the younger version of

himself, who is seated nearby, watching with a grin. The

blood is gone from his face, appearing clean-cut, clean

uniform.

Well, if you're gonna be captain... what

are we gonna do now?

Off his look...

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER COMPARTMENT - LATER

SHUSH... THUD. Doors open to another sleep chamber

compartment, completely undisturbed. Four undisturbed sleep-

chambers are lined against the wall.

GALLO enters, now wearing the CAPTAIN'S uniform, he

straightens his collar and kneels next to one of the pods,

typing into the panel. A grin appears as he removes the

wedding ring (PAYTON'S ring) he'd forgotten he's still

wearing.

What is a King... without his Queen.

He hits the control panel switch and...

INT. SLEEP CHAMBER

A FEMALE CREW MEMBER, a beautiful young woman, deep in hyper--

slumber suddenly twitches... her EYES opening wide with a

GASP as she stares into CAMERA.

CUT TO BLACK.

