Jerry skims through a girly magazine, turning the pages with

the gun.

Butch, wearing Larry's plaid jacket, jimmies open the cash

register. He looks to the floor then to...

Jerry, who catches Butch's gaze, holds it, looks down at the

floor, then, smiling, looks back to Butch. He returns to

the skin mag.

Butch holds his stare at Jerry then, in one move, grabs a wad

of cash and hops over the counter and out of the store.

Jerry notices Butch leaving, grabs a handful of assorted

Brach's candies and hurries after.

Jerry's feet scurry through a pool of blood and past a

quivering hand.

It's very late, after midnight, and only a handful of people,

half of whom are cleanup crews, shuffle through the offices.

A light from an office at the end of the hall catches our

eye. A MUFFLED  VOICE over the phone...

Red, behind a huge    ranchstyle desk covered with files and

paper, sips coffee    with one hand, works a buffalo nickel

through magician's    paces with the other and balances the

phone receiver in    the crook of his neck.

Red sighs, puts the PHONE back in the hook and stares at

it until it RINGS again.

The CLANGING wind up alarm CLOCK reads 5:30 and Gladys opens

her eyes and gently quiets it with a touch. She groans and

rises, not happy but used to the daily ritual required of her.

As the kitchen light comes on we see that the couch has been

opened up to a bed in which all three children sleep. The

twins sleep soundly but Phillip tosses and turns away from

the light.

The Impala creeps through the previously seen neighborhood

without its lights.

Butch drives while Jerry scours the block.

Butch puts on the brakes and brings the car to a stop.

Jerry gets out, slams the door, lights a cigarette and walks

away.

Butch waits a few seconds, quietly turns the key one notch

and checks the gas ggauge. It reads almost empty. He taps

it with his finger but it doesn't budge. He sighs, looks up

and sees...

JERRY

as he checks one locked car, then feeling eyes on his back,

turns, looks at Butch, grins and disappears around a corner.

BUTCH discreetly exits the car himself, carefully closing the

door without a sound.

Gladys steps into a slip and snaps her bra while cracking eggs

into a skillet. By rote she salts, stirs, and pops bread into

the toaster.

Phillip reaches down and slowly picks up the gun by the handle.

He takes one step toward Butch, then another. Gladys,

petrified, sobs.

Phillip arrives armslength from Butch.

CLOSEUPS - PHILLIP AND BUTCH

Butch laughs and then a NOISE from outside brings him back

to reality. He grabs the gun and spins to see...

MR. CUMMINGS

Standing outside the screen door, gun leveled. Before the old

man can utter a syllable, Butch grabs Phillip and points the

gun straight at Cummings. Jerry jumps up and grabs Gladys.

The PHONE RINGS.

The twins wiping sleep from their eyes, wander into the room.

PHONE continues to RING. Cummings can't decide what to do

with the gun he's pointing at Butch.

Cummings reluctantly obeys.

PHONE still RINGS...

In one fluid move he rips the phone from the wall.    The

silence is deafening.

Silence.   Gladys can't believe her ears.   Then...

Jerry tosses Gladys aside. She collapses onto the floor.

The TWINS instantly start to CRY.

Phillip winds up and hits Butch as hard as he can. Butch picks

him up, directs Cummings into the kitchen with the gun and nods

for Jerry to lead.

Butch, carrying Phillip, and Jerry emerge from the back of

the house and race back to the Impala.

Butch flips Jerry the gun, tosses Phillip into the passenger

seat, leaps over the hood and into the driver's seat. The

CAR STARTS and SQUEALS away.

Neighbors, aroused by the noise, exit their homes clad in

robes, nighties and curlers.

Jerry FIRES a SHOT over their heads, sending them to the deck

or scurrying for safety.

Cummings races from behind the house with the SHOTGUN,

levels it and FIRES a BLAST...

A nearby station wagon WINDOW SHATTERS. Rising from their

cover position, its owners look at Cummings with disgust.

Garnett, still in the same clothes, rests the phone receiver

in his ear while he shuffles through the files before him.

Red's deputy and boy friday, TOM ADLER, 40, lank, thinning

hair, with a face as soft as Red's is hard, warms up Red's

coffee with a jolt from the Chief's favorite plaid Thermos.

The jabbering on the other end of the phone line continues

as Red's eyes squint to read the files.

INSERT - FILES

The first is Jerry's, complete with a grinning mug shot in the

upper right hand corner. There are several pages in the file,

but Red's fingers quickly peruse the top rap sheet before

turning to...

INSERT - SECOND FILE

It's Butch's and again Red's fingers start to move down the

page then they stop and move to the photo of Butch at the top

of the page.

RED'S FACE

A hint of recognition.    The jabbering continues...

CLOSEUP - PHOTO OF BUTCH

A little younger than now.    A younger con with the grim facade

of a man facing hard time.

RED

keeps staring at the photo, oblivious to the phone conversa-

tion he's "not having".

Red comes to...

Red nods then notices someone at the door and motions her

in... SALLY GERBER, 28, cute in a plain, no nonsense way,

with giant curls accenting her round face in step with the

latest hair fashions, enters the room, closes the door behind

her. She's nervous as hell but trying to hide it.

Red motions her to have a seat while he finishes his call.

Red hangs up the phone, takes a draw on the coffee mug and

looks again at the file. He seems lost in time.

Red closes the file.

Red turns his attention to Sally.

Red is confused.     He turns a blank expression to Adler.

Adler searches the messy desk for something.

Adler finds the telex message sheet he's looking for and hands

it to Red.

Sally offers her hand. Red, perusing the telex, ignores but

Adler shakes somewhat reluctantly, not sure if he's supposed

to like her or not.

The office PHONE BUZZES.    Adler picks it up.

Adler hangs up the phone.

Adler hangs up, grabs Red's tie and coat from a brass rung on

the wall and hands them over. Red puts down the telex, stares

at Sally and reluctantly attempts to make himself presentable.

Adler stares at Sally then turns to Red with a "never heard

the like" look of amazement on his face.

Red, roguishly handsome in his tan, western cut blazer, clip

on tie and ten gallon hat, makes his way to the door. But,

before he exits...

And with that he's out the door.

A throng of photogs and news writers stuff the undersized

room. The clamor settles when Red enters and steps behind

the lectern.

Sally and Adler enter the room and stand beside the lectern

observing. Red notices them.

A few chuckles.

Red hesitates a moment, something's bothering him, then blurts

out...

Every hand in the place shoots up and Ad Lib questions fly

like bullets.

Red steps back and to one side. Sally is taken aback but then

warms to the idea and steps to the podium for her first press

conference, ready to take on the tough questions, to show off

a bit, but....

There are no questions. In fact there is utter silence as

every raised hand drops. Eyes stare.

Red sighs and starts to walk away.

And he heads out the door, followed by Sally's eyes and every

reporter's in the room, who commence once again to yell out

questions and mob after the Chief. Every reporter, that is,

except one.

He's near the back of the room and he smiles and raises his

hand.

Sally, unsure what to do, looks to him...

Sally smiles a bit then puts on her serious face awaiting...

Sally, steamed, glares at the guy and stomps out of the

room.

Butch is driving with Phillip in the front seat beside him,

still in his underwear. Jerry, in the backseat, leers at

Butch, aims out the window and FIRES ONCE.

An aluminum water tank spews a violent leak.

Phillip doesn't move or change expression. Jerry smiles,

almost to himself, and FIRES TWICE more for the hell of it.

The ROOF of the Impala EXPLODES with two holes as the car

speeds off down the highway.

Red is finishing up with several reporters near the door to

the parking lot. Adler jumps in, holds up his hands.

Red and Adler move through the parking lot to SAUNDERS, 50, an

aide to the Governor. Saunder's seconds are a PHOTOGRAPHER,

young and energetic, and SUTTLE, 35, dark-haired, with a

cowlick.

Saunders shakes Red's hand and they turn to gaze upon...

'60-STYLE AIRSTREAM MOBILE HOME

parked in the middle of the lot hitched to the back of a new

Chevy truck. The Airstream is painted in state colors and

sports banners, decals and logos.

Saunders follows Red as he walks around the showpiece,

occasionally kicking a tire or two.

Saunders motions for the Photographer to come closer and take

pictures. He moves in next to Red and poses as the camera

clicks.

Red stops circling and nods to Adler, who scurries away.

Red smiles, walks up to one of the Lone Star decals and rips

it off.

Red rips off another decal. Adler and a few others start to

load equipment, guns and files into the motor home. In

addition they cart out unecessary items: mattresses, etc.

and stack them in a pile outside the motor home.

The Photographer continues to snap photos.

Red does away with the parade banner.   Saunders follows behind

and tries to reinstate the decal.

Adler moves through the door to the RV carrying Red's favorite

desk chair. He's followed by BOBBY LEE, 20's, cocksure,

wearing a plain khaki uniform and boots.

Red stares hard at Bobby Lee, then nods.   Bobby Lee steps

into the Airstream.

Red spots Suttle, 35, bright-eyed, with a cowlick, sitting at

the wheel of the Chevy truck.

BRADLEY, 35, glasses, moves to the truck and gets in.

Suttle shrugs and steps out.

Saunders stops Suttle and turns to Red.

Suttle sets himself in the passenger seat of the truck.

Sally emerges from the building, ticked off, carrying an

armload of file boxes, and makes a beeline for Red.

Saunders gently touches Red's shoulders; a final plea.

Sally arrives but before she can spit out a word...

Red whistles and the ENGINE REVS. Red closes the door as the

motor home pulls away. Saunders runs beside the passenger

side window and yells in to Suttle, who stares out the window.

Saunders stops, breathing hard, next to Sally.   She's

pissed and overloaded with files.

AIRSTREAM

about 20 yards down the way, comes to a stop.    A second later

the door opens and the steps pop out.

Sally walks toward the bus but when she arrives at the door...

... LAUGHTER filters out of the Airstream.   The Airstream

moves another 20 feet then stops.

Sally waits a full five seconds, then she blows the hair out

of her eyes and, against her better judgment, moves cautiously

forward, the file boxes getting heavier by the minute. Again,

when she gets close...

...the Airstream moves. Sally, boiling mad as her coiffure

wilts in the Texas sun, stops, and tosses down the file box

in anger.

The Airstream stops. LAUGHTER from inside and a   few AD LIBS,

i.e. -- "Okay, Okay." More LAUGHTER. Red steps    out the door,

turns his gaze back inside and the laughter and  comments stop

on a dime. Smiling slightly he turns to Sally,   moves straight

for the file box, picks it up and walks back to  the Airstream.

When he arrives at the steps he turns, looks to  Sally, who

stews and holds her ground.

She hesitates only a moment before walking straight to Red,

grabbing back her file box and entering in front of him.

Sally enters, balancing the   boxes, and glares at the faces

surrounding her. A smiling    Red, a grinning Adler messily

gorging on a cinnamon roll,   a nervous KAISER, the radio man,

and, in the corner, a nasty   smirk from Bobby Lee.

When the Airstream takes off again, she loses her balance and

drops one of the boxes. Adler and Suttle jump forward to help

but she gives them the evil eye.

She kneels down to pick it up and feels eyes on her.     She

looks up to the men staring at...

Her skirt, raised a bit, exposing a thigh.

She calmly stands and looks to Adler, a piece of cinnamon roll

dangling on his chin.

Red can't help but smile as Adler wipes at his face.

The IMPALA BLASTS along, kicking up dust and dispersing crows

as it heads into a one light township. It slows, however,

before the main part of town and slides to a stop near a pay

phone booth.

Jerry thinks it over, leans forward and, in one quick swipe,

grabs the keys from the ignition. Then he laughs and crawls

out on his way to the phone booth.

In the b.g. we see Jerry strut to the phone booth and pore

through a thin directory. Phillip steals a glance at Butch,

who watches his rear view mirror and grits his teeth.

In the b.g. Jerry rips the 20 page phone book in half and

returns to the car, half pleased with himself. He tosses

the keys to Butch, who starts the car and drives off.

Butch reaches over, takes Phillip's hand and places it on the

steering wheel.

Phillip, scared at the prospect, nevertheless does his best

to see over the dash and keep the wheel straight. Butch

turns back over the seat to confront Jerry.

Before Jerry has time to snicker Butch hits him full in the

face and grabs the gun. Blood spurts from Jerry's nose and

the injured man cups his hands over the wound.

Butch spins and retakes the wheel from a frightened Phillip.

Instead of expressing outrage, Jerry slinks back down in the

seat wearing a look of pure hatred.

Somethin' catches Butch's eye and he turns and slows down and

turns into...

The Impala brakes to a dusty stop near the front of the store,

which is bordered by a giant hay field.

Butch hands Phillip the revolver.

Jerry snickers and then laughs maniacally. Butch reaches

over and cocks the pistol. Jerry's guffaws stop on a dime.

Butch steps out of the car and heads for the market.

Butch enters.   A short fat man with a fishing cap is sweeping

up.

Phillip's slightly shaking hands hold the pistol pointed

directly at Jerry's head.

No answer. Phillip steals a glance at the store, anxious for

Butch to return.

A bead of sweat rolls down Phillip's cheek.

Jerry raises his hands, palms up and slowly leans forward in

the back seat. Phillip's hand quivers but he doesn't pull

the trigger.

Butch dumps a six pack of RC Colas, a handful of Moon Pies,

a handful of beef jerky and some gum on the counter.

Jerry's chin is on the front seat now and his arms are draped

over it.

Jerry's hand slowly reaches down to the white briefs. He

places one finger in the front elastic waistband and slowly

pulls it open.

Jerry sneaks a peek.

Phillip, diverted, looks down.    In a flash Jerry grabs the

gun.

Jerry flicks open the revolver, spins it -- empty slots.

The Old Man puts down his broom and ambles to the register.

The Old Man puts the cigs and shells on the counter and starts

to tally the bill on a notepad.

Butch reaches in his pocket and extracts the wad stolen from

the convenience store. The Old Man takes note. Butch

selects a five and places it on the counter.

The Old Man bags the goods, but Butch takes the shells and

puts them in his coat pocket.

Jerry puts his gun hand around Phillip's neck and pulls the

sobbing boy closer. Jerry rests his face on Phillip's neck.

As Jerry    groans, Phillip seizes the moment and bites Jerry

hard on    the ear. Jerry screams and drops the gun, which

Phillip    picks up and carries with him as he scurries out of

the car    and into the hay field.

Jerry, in pain, now with both ears bleeding, crawls out of

the back seat and gives chase.

Phillip, still sobbing, runs for his life in the hay, which

is a full foot taller than he.

JERRY

no longer stumbling, now grinning maniacally, gives chase,

whistling as if calling for a lost puppy.

PHILLIP

gun in hand, stumbles, falls, gets up, keeps running. He falls

again and crawls to a stop. He wipes his tears and balls up

on the ground trying to make himself invisible.

Butch exits with a grocery sack. When he sees the car doors

open he dumps the groceries in the front seat and looks to

the field.

HIS POV

The hay rustles as Jerry moves through the field.

Jerry, crouching, moves through the field -- eyes peeled for

any sign of Phillip.

Phillip lies still. He hears the hay rustling near him and

he looks up, squares his body and points the revolver at...

Butch, who spots him, motions for him to stay put and holds

out his hand for the gun. Phillip hands it over and watches

while Butch reaches into the plaid jacket pocket, extracts a

few shells and loads the .38.

JERRY

a little frustrated now, but still moving forward.

He spots something -- a dash of color -- and begins to crawl

faster. He parts a thick batch of hay and looks up into the

gun barrel and eyes of ...

BUTCH

squatted down,   who levels the revolver and closes one eye.

Jerry laughs.

Butch reaches into the coat pocket with his free hand and

shows a shell or two. Jerry's grin drops.

PHILLIP

hears a GUNSHOT and runs for his life back toward the store.

Phillip runs to the car and hides behind the tire opposite the

store and field. In the b.g. we see Butch emerge from the

field and walk toward the car.

The Old Man, who also heard the shot, emerges from the store

with a baseball bat.   Butch arrives at the car, spots the Old

Man and levels the revolver at him. Phillip is relieved when

he hears Butch's voice instead of Jerry's.

The Old Man meekly does so. Butch goes to the car door, opens

it and motions to a frozen stiff Phillip.

The truck and Airstream barrel down the highway.

The place is a functioning mobile headquarters now. Adler on

the short wave and tacking up a map, Bobby Lee still in his

corner, Red and Sally sitting across from one another at the

"kitchen table".

In the rear section of the Airstream Red's chair and a mini

office for the Chief have been put together.

Adler sets down the mike, sticks a tack on the map and stands

back.

Kaiser calls in the instructions. (NOTE:   Kaiser's radio

transmissions are not scripted but go on a lot of the time

we're in the Airstream. In addition, his  and Adler's direc-

tions and missives to Bradley in the truck are not all

scripted.)

Sally is watching Red and listening to all of this with a

troubled look on her face. Red notices...

Everyone stares.    No one ever questions Red.

Sally hesitates.    Red notices...

Silence.   Sally continues.

Red rises and walks to the sink.      He rinses a spoon.

She looks to Red.   He refuses to return her gaze.

Red wipes the water off the spoon on his shirt and walks to

his office in the back. Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser chuckle

lightly at their boss's snubbing of the female upstart in

their midst. Sally's face glows a bright red.

Red sits in his office chair, pulls out the spoon and pours

Geritol from a bottle into his coffee. He doesn't even look

up when Sally enters, a stern look on her face.

Red sips from the mug calmly then groans, his face contorted.

She refuses to answer.

Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser all watch the discussion, smiles

on their faces. Sally abruptly closes the door.

Red catches himself about to get too personal. He takes

another swig of his coffee/geritol. Sally softens her stance.

But Red side-steps.

Sally turns, about to leave.

Butch drives and catches an occasional glance at Phillip who

sits quietly, but who, too, steals looks at his captor

between swigs of RC Cola.

He finishes off the bottle. Butch reaches in the sack for

another, pops the top on the dashboard and hands it to

Phillip.

Butch realizes that in Phillip's eyes he and Jerry were

probably friends.

The RV slides to a stop in the gravel parking lot which is

full of state and local police. Red exits first, followed

by the others. A LOCAL SHERIFF walks up to greet.

PAN FROM a fingertip UP an arm and TO the face of Jerry Pugh.

A clean bullethole has left him with a third eye, a bloody

back and an entourage of late summer flies. We hear the

CLICK of a photographer's CAMERA.

BOOM UP TO Red, Local Sheriff and other bystanders.

Butch notices that Phillip is pretty somber as he tugs on

another RC.

Phillip nods.

Phillip sits still.    That was it.

Butch brings the car to a stop.    He points to the horizon.

Desolate.

The Impala rests in the fork of a dirt road.

Phillip meekly holds up his right hand.    The car races

forward.

Phillip shakes his head.

Butch points forward through the dash.

Butch taps on the rearview mirror.

He does so and the Impala surges forward.

Butch brings the car to a complete and dusty stop.

Then he laughs uproariously and steps on the gas.

The Impala spins out, kicking dirt in all directions.

The Airstream sits in the parking lot of the store.   Bradley

and Suttle sit up front in the truck.

INT. TRUCK - DAY

Bradley turns the knob on an intercom speaker system next

to the radio.

Bradley pushes the power button. The SYSTEM SQUAWKS LOUDLY

and then CREAKS TINNILY. Speakers blown.

INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY

Red cringes, his ears still ringing from the squawk, and turns

to stare at the front of the RV.

INT. TRUCK - DAY

INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY

Red shakes his head and stands in front of the map, placing

thumbtacks at crossroads indicated by the circle mark.

She points to several other unmarked roads.

Adler hears something on his headset, turns to Red.

The Impala travels slowly along the road until it edges to a

stop by the entrance to a small farmhouse with a truck and

car parked in a long dirt driveway. A farmer on a combine

works a small field.

Phillip hesitates.

Phillip thinks it over then opens the door and slips out.

Phillip, still in his skivvies, legs cut up and muddied from

his escape from Jerry, sneaks up to the car and quietly peers

into the open window.

The keys dangle when his small hand touches them.

Phillip closes the door, looks around and then runs pell-mell

to the passenger window of the Impala.

Phillip holds his crotch and stamps his feet.

Phillip scrambles to the ditch to relieve himself while Butch

steps out of the Impala, tosses the keys into the field and

walks toward the Ford.

The FARMER stops his tractor and notices Butch and Phillip.

Phillip, despite his prior urgency, is having trouble coaxing

relief.

Butch slides into the Ford, pumps the gas pedal and turns the

key. The ENGINE GRUMBLES and DIES.

The Farmer is walking now, slowly and then at a trot as he

realizes what's happening.

Phillip finally starts to pee.

Butch cranks again and again but the Ford is flooded.

The Farmer runs faster, comes closer...

Butch floors the gas to clear the flood and the ENGINE finally

STARTS. He throws it into reverse and peels out backwards

into the road beside the ditch where Phillip continues to

relieve himself.

The Farmer, only 30 yards or so away, is racing toward them

madder than a wet hen.

Phillip tries to hurry but the RC continues to run through

him.

Phillip pulls his underwear up and races to the car. He leaps

into the open passenger door at the same moment Butch steps on

the gas and the Farmer arrives and grabs onto the door as it

closes.

The CAR is SCREECHING down the road but the Farmer holds on

for dear life and auto. He claws at Phillip, who does his

best to fend off flailing hands and fingers.

Butch reaches under the seat for and grasps the pistol.

Phillip sees what's about to happen and bites the Farmer's

hand as hard as he can.

The Farmer releases his grip on the door and falls backward,

summersaulting into the adjacent ditch.

Butch places the gun back under the seat.

Butch shakes his head and laughs.

Sitting still. Bradley tries to light a cigarette with

the lighter but gets no heat.

INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY

Bobby Lee sits alone in the back corner of the main room of

the RV. He just sits and stares, occasionally smiling

cynically at Sally.

Adler takes the latest info off the radio while the others

listen in.

Kaiser radios up front, the ENGINE STARTS and the Airstream

moves.

Adler looks at the map.

Adler gets more news through the headsets.

Red stares out the window for what seems like an eternity...

Adler looks quizzically at Red and pulls off the headphones...

Red sees Sally peering at him over the top of her file.      He

glances around at the other sets of eyes.

Adler puts the headphones back on.

Bobby Lee smirks a bit.

Red gives her a look that says, "Don't defend me".

Sally flashes Red a look back. Bobby Lee rises and moves

past Red on his way to the toilet.

Red just stares at Bobby Lee as the younger man moves slowly

past him to the toilet.

Adler on the radio...

Red pulls out a package of Red Man chewing tobacco and mulls

over the question while he slaps a wad into his cheek.

Phillip shrugs.

Disappointment registers on the boy's face.

The Ford pulls off the dusty road and into the lone pump in

this dilapidated petrol mirage. A BUCK TOOTH BOY, 15, in

overalls steps to the window.

The attendant starts to pump the gas.

Phillip can't help but smile at the notion.

Bradley and Suttle lean against the parked RV, chatting.

A long counter at the front of the store is backed by a small

office with a large glass window that gives the Manager, MR.

WILLITS, 45, bespectacled, anal-retentive, a clear view of the

store. A nuclear family with two kids exits the store just as

Butch and Phillip enter. Butch holds the door open and smiles

at them. They say "thanks" but can't help but notice Phillip,

cowering behind Butch, still clad in his underwear. He hides

behind a nearby display which reads: Cast Your Vote For

Friendly's Friendliest Clerk!

A clerk, LUCY, 30, holding a handful of shoeboxes notices

their entrance. She's schoolmarmish with a smile that looks

like it's painted on.

Phillip, still in somewhat of a daze, doesn't recognize his

own "name".

Phillip snaps to, cracks a smile at Butch and follows the lady

to the children's section of the store.

BUTCH

walks past the cash register, gives the clerk behind the desk

a wink and proceeds to an aisle which features hardware, rope,

tape, nails, etc. He stoops and grabs a shank...

... with his hands he grips the rope tight and jerks it taut.

CHILDREN'S AISLE

Lucy is holding jeans up to Phillip's waist.

Phillip's eye catches something...

HALLOWEEN COSTUME DISPLAY

on a circular rack with shelves. Hanging prominantly is a

Casper the Friendly Ghost costume. Above it a sign reads:

"MARKED DOWN - Get the Jump on Next Year!"

CLOSEUP - PHILLIP

mesmerized by the display.

BUTCH

takes a roll of electrician's tape. He tears off a strip,

attaches it to the back or his hand and tugs. It holds tight.

LUCY

kneeling, looking for sizes, selects a pair and turns to find

Phillip gone. She spins around and smiles when she sees...

PHILLIP

wearing the Casper mask.

A local police car cruises slowly, spots the Ford parked in

the alley and comes to a halt.

The cop, TERRANCE, 25, who only started last month after he

flunked out of Texas A&M, checks the plates against a notepad

on his dash.

Butch, with a handful of supplies, including the rope and

tape, makes his way to the register.

He's greeted there by PAULA, to whom he earlier winked. She's

25, country cute, and wears a fake smile that rivals Lucy's.

Butch reaches for and tries on a pair of sunglasses.

He adds them to the pile of stuff.

Butch nods and hands over the goods.

Paula laughs, then drops her grin, looks behind her to see

Mr. Willits is watching, and whispers...

BEHIND GLASS

Mr. Willits adjusts his black and white TV and settles on a

local news broadcast.

CHECKOUT COUNTER

Paula checks Butch's items as Lucy and Phillip emerge from an

aisle and drop a pair of jeans and sneakers onto the counter.

MR. WILLITS

pays more attention to Butch as the newscast continues.

CLOSEUPS - BUTCH AND WILLITS

Each checking out the other.

Terrance pulls his black and white to one end of Main Street

and parks it across the street, blocking it.

ANOTHER COP

PETE, 40, probably Terrance's uncle, slides his black and

white to the opposite end of the street and puts it in park.

Adler takes the urgent message off the radio and turns to the

group...

Paula bags the items, including the jeans.

CLOSEUP - WILLITS

staring straight at Butch.

CLOSEUP - BUTCH

shakes his head at Willits -- "Don't even think about it".

Phillip steps out the door.    He spots the crash and watches

as...

The Ford blasts back into the alley in a hail of dust.

Butch, driving like a maniac, turns into the back alley and

steps on it. All at once he mashes on the BRAKES and comes

to a SQUEALING stop.

HIS POV

The alley is a dead end.

BACK TO SCENE

Butch rips the CAR into reverse and SQUEALS all the way back

to the original side alley.

Phillip stands frozen, scared, not knowing what to do but

keeping a look out on the street for the Ford.

Lucy and Paula peer from behind the counter at Phillip and

the fracas taking place in the street.

They spot Phillip standing a few feet in front of the door.

The FORD emerges from the side alley once more and SQUEALS

onto Main Street.

TERRANCE

can't believe his eyes...

HIS POV - FORD

is COMING STRAIGHT FOR him, hell bent on destruction and

picking up speed.

BACK TO SCENE

Terrance sticks his black and white in rapid reverse and backs

down the street at 40 mph.

TERRANCE'S POV - FORD

is GAINING ON him -- he can actually SEE Butch's grimaced face

-- when suddenly it goes into a dusty fishtail, does a 180,

and barrels in the OPPOSITE direction.

PHILLIP

antsy as hell, stuck, wondering how this whole thing is going

to play out. He's suddenly aware of the peering eyes behind

him. Lucy bangs on the glass.

BUTCH

checks his mirror, looks ahead, spots Phillip and blasts

straight for the front door of the store. He SKIDS to a halt

and stares right at Phillip.

PHILLIP

He's frozen for a second, his knees knocking, teeth

chattering, the works. Lucy appears behind him and the

glass door...

Phillip dashes to the Ford and makes a swimmer's starting

dive into the open passenger window.

Suttle is scared to death while Bradley is loving every

minute. The ENGINE starts to STEAM.

But Bradley pays no heed.

Bobby Lee unholsters his pistol and leans back out the

window. Red spots him.

Bobby Lee thinks it over, shakes his head in disgust and

holsters his piece.

Butch spots an opening and...

The Ford makes a sharp veer off the road into a flat scrub

brush field. The car spins out a bit when it hits the dirt

sending forth a dust devil, then it regains its traction and

blasts ahead through the dust.

Bradley spots the maneuver and starts to follow.

The truck, in an attempt to enter the field, misses the flat

spot, hits a burm with its front right tire and flies into

the air.

The trailer hitch snaps as does the safety chain.

The truck lands hard and continues pell-mell through the

field.

The AIRSTREAM, sans truck, BLASTS forward along the road

at 50+ m.p.h.

Bouncing like hell. Sally holds on for dear life, then

glances out the window and almost jumps out of her seat when

she sees...

HER POV

The truck, 100 or so yards away, blasting through the field

toward the horizon.

NEW ANGLE

Red spots the same but before he can cuss...

The Airstream veers off the road and into the rocky field.

Trees, scrub brush and boulders are no deterrent for the

sleek silverfish which seems to be moving even faster than

before.

Steam, smoke pouring from the engine. Suttle, covering his

eyes, sneaks a peek behind and screams when he sees no

Airstream behind them.

Bradley looks in the rear-view mirror, turns around and

screams, too. Without visual guidance...

The TRUCK BLASTS into a mesquite tree, runs halfway up

the tree, then dies a horrible death.

It's an anti-gravity room what with the files, coffee, maps

and bodies flying around.

