FADE IN:

FIGURE IN A SANTA CLAUS SUIT

lies face-down in a nighttime expanse of snow. One of the

body's red-sleeved arms is twisted at a sickening angle. The

white snow beneath the figure is spreading with red.

REVEAL EXT. SNOWY ROAD - NIGHT

The figure in the suit lies motionless. Snowflakes drift.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dark, rustic wood, an office with broken windows and whistling

winter beyond. A second BODY in a Santa Claus suit lies dead

in the doorway.

It's a man with a large build. The suit is riddled with holes.

His face is missing.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

More snow falling. A handful of cars in the lot. A third

BODY in the same red-and-white outfit lies atop the hood of

an old Pontiac. His head is not visible, having smashed

through the windshield. His suit is charred and blackened.

A halo of broken glass outlines him. His black boots hang

off the front bumper. The parking lot is silent.

INT. ROOM - NIGHT

A floor scattered with shiny silver quarters. Reflections of

neon. There's a fourth SANTA here, face-down in a red pool.

The suit is far too big for him. Not that it matters now.

EXT. SNOW-FILLED RAVINE - NIGHT

where the fifth and final Santa lies at the edge of a ravine,

which plummets a hundred feet down. The man rests precariously

atop the slope, upside-down, eyes closed.

His burned suit is smoldering. He has a sly but tired face,

late-20's, sandy hair, cold and scarred. This is RUDY DUNCAN.

He opens his eyes.

THE SOUND OF A WINTER WIND

rises, as a TITLE appears: "SEVEN DAYS BEFORE..."

And then, to complete the sentence: "...XMAS."

FADE IN:

EXT. IRON MOUNTAIN STATE PRISON - DAY

Snow drifts down onto the stone walls and wire fences of the

Iron Mountain, Michigan S.I.C. Winter's been here awhile.

INT. PRISON CELL - DAY

Rudy Duncan lies in his top bunk, staring at his ceiling --

where a handful of paper-cut snowflakes have been pasted.

The sounds of YELLING INMATES and GATES slamming shut echo

through the fortress. Rudy watches a spider scurry across

the paper snow. It's his excitement for the day.

He turns to the wall, where there's a photo of his teenage

self with some co-workers at an auto body shop. And a family

photo, cheery Midwesterners, with Rudy a scowling Artful

Dodger.

A WALL CALENDAR

Shows the dates have been crossed off up to December 18th.

December 22nd is circled again and again.

Rudy muses at the calendar, then hops out of his bunk. Drops

to the floor, crosses to a desk, finds a chewed-on pen.

Turning back to the beds we reveal --

THE LOWER BUNK

where Rudy's cellmate, NICK MASON (32), rugged, mustached

and well-built, sleeps soundly. In contrast, his bed-wall is

a COLLAGE OF PHOTOGRAPHS, twenty, maybe thirty of them. Almost

a mural.

All of them photos of A BEAUTIFUL YOUNG GIRL, mid-twenties,

smiling out from beaches, parties and snowy scenes. Gorgeous

brown hair, heartbreaking smile. Effortlessly sexy.

RUDY

stares at the pictures for a moment, wistful. Nick snores,

turns over. Rudy climbs atop his bunk again, with the pen

this time. And crosses December 18th off the calendar.

EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

The two of them, Nick and Rudy, shivering by the fence. Nick

absently whistles some "Silver Bells," then digs for a smoke.

Dozens of uniformed INMATES wander the yard, stamping feet,

hands tucked away, breath frosting. Nick tries to light his

cig, but the wind plays havoc. Nick curses, tosses it.

Nick laughs, stares through the fence at the gates of the

prison's entrance road. Longingly.

Nick grins. They stand there, shivering. It's freezing, but

the time they get outside is too precious to give up.

Nick studies him.

They trail off in silence. Nick looks out at the prison road

again. A snowy wasteland.

INT. PRISON CELL - DAY

Rudy lies in his bunk, staring at the same paper snowflakes.

Rudy still stares at the stone ceiling.

Nick's doing pushups on the floor below, smoking a cig,

reading sheets of pink stationery. With a new photo: of the

same GIRL, in a bikini by a lake. Vamping a childish pose.

Nick climbs off the floor, paces back to the bunks, marvelling

at the latest letter.

Nick drops the page on his stomach. Rudy sighs, picks it up,

brings it to his nose.

Nick drops back to his bunk, pasting the new lakeside photo

among his collage of pictures. Admiring his pen pal:

Above, Rudy peruses the page Nick gave him. Some lipstick

marks pressed to the paper. He passes it back, closes his

eyes.

There's the echo of CRASHING metal gates. Prisoners YELLING.

Nick smiles, still staring at his girl.

INT. MAIN PRISON FLOOR - DAY

GUARDS monitor PRISONERS as they file out of their cells for

the afternoon meal. Rudy and Nick are motioned out by a MEAN

GUARD, his bitter world etched in his face. They join the

line.

Across Broadway, a parallel line is forming. A tall, tattooed

Native American, THE ALAMO, steps out of his cell. His hands

are the size of a man's skull.

At that moment, Alamo glances over. Finds Rudy's eyes. Rudy

swiftly looks away --

He slaps Nick an the back, heads back for their cell --

The mean guard pulls his blackjack. Another guard's ready

behind him. They want Rudy to give them trouble.

Rudy stops. Slides back into the line of prisoners. Looks

across Broadway. The Alamo's walked on up ahead. Rudy

swallows, heads toward the mess hall.

INT. MESS HALL - DAY

A GLOOPY SPOON of CHUNKY RED AND GREEN JELLO gets splooshed

on Rudy's plate. Same with Nick. It's the cafeteria line.

The ugly staffer grins from under his plastic hairnet. Nick

looks to Rudy, then turns back to the help:

The ugly staffer curls his lip. Nick smiles. Rudy moves on,

taking his tray off the rail and turning --

-- right into the chest of The Alamo. He looks up -- into

the most scarred and vengeful face a man could ever dread to

see. The Alamo's a lifer. Many times over.

The Alamo strides into the cafeteria line. Rudy finally takes

a breath, as if he's dodged death. Nick's at his shoulder.

They share a grave and worried look. Trying to help:

INT. MESS HALL - TABLES - DAY

Rudy and Nick sit at a cafeteria table. Beside Rudy is a

frail, nervous, fiftyish inmate, ZOOK. Zook sits alone, talks

to no one, always has the shakes.

Rudy shrugs. He checks across the room, on the whereabouts

of The Alamo. The big Indian has his back turned.

Next to Rudy, Zook has stopped eating. He is still as stone,

staring at his tray.

They both watch Zook put down his utensils and reach into

his red-and-green jello with his bare hand.

Gloppy gelatin drips from his hand, as the frail man lifts a

large black cockroach out. Zook's shaking.

Zook stands up, holding jello aloft:

A GRUMBLING MURMUR sweeps through the cafeteria as inmates

sift through their jello, searching for --

He pulls something bug-like out of his dessert, holds it

aloft, and then HURLS it at the cafeteria line. A STAFFER

ducks away. The inmates LAUGH and suddenly they're all on

their feet --

-- grabbing handfuls of jello and throwing it at the cafeteria

line. Inmates get errantly SPLASHED, and respond by wheeling

on their fellow inmates -- red and green globs flying to and

fro!

As GUARDS immediately rush in to restore order --

An INMATE at the end of their table picks up their table and

overturns it, sending food flying. Rudy and Nick stand back,

hands raised in surrender. Jello HITS Rudy in the face.

Zook is still SHOUTING until a GUARD clubs him senseless

with a blackjack. WHISTLES are blowing. Guards SCREAM for

order.

The guard leaves them alone, runs on. The melee's still out

of control. As Rudy turns --

-- and suddenly sees The Alamo charging across the room,

with murderous eyes, a metal shank in his hand! Five feet

away!

Nick grabs him, trying to push him out of the way --

-- and The Alamo's shank plunges deep into Nick's stomach

burying between his ribs. Blood splashes. Nick slumps.

The Alamo pulls the blade out with a ferocious YELL, pushes

Nick to the floor and spins on Rudy! Rudy blocks with a chair,

stumbling back, cartwheeling over a table as The Alamo roars

over him for the kill --

-- and two GUARDS tackle the big Indian out of nowhere!

Knocking the knife away, hammering him with blackjacks. It

takes another three guards to keep The Alamo down.

Rudy scrambles across the floor. Nick's on his back, blood

pumping freely from his gut --

No one's helping, the guards nearby all subduing The Alamo.

Nick grabs Rudy's shirt, gasping to speak --

Blood spills out Nick's mouth. His eyes go vacant.

And Rudy's suddenly hauled backwards. A trio of GUARDS

descend, grabbing Nick's body as his life fades away. Dragging

his figure out of the melee. WHISTLES are blowing.

Rudy struggles, enraged, and gets blackjacked across the

skull for his trouble. He hits the jello-covered floor.

And the world goes dark.

INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT

Darkness and shadows. Rudy sits in a corner, holding his

head. The cell block silent for the first time.

Bootsteps from down the row. A SHADOW falls across Rudy's

somber figure. It's the Mean Guard. He stares at Rudy with

distinct pleasure.

The guard grins a gold tooth. Rudy looks at him --

-- and then springs to his feet, charges the room, grabbing

through the bars. The guard takes a calm step back. Keeps

the cruel smile.

He puckers a kiss and walks on. Starts whistling "Are You

Lonesome Tonight?" Several shadowed VOICES request that he

shut the fuck up. The bootsteps and melody drift down the

row.

RUDY

turns back, starts toward his bunk. And stops. His eyes on

Nick's empty bed. And the wall behind.

THE PICTURES OF ASHLEY

Smiling, laughing, playing kissy-face. Hearts drawn on the

photos. All colors of stationery taped to the wall.

RUDY

takes a seat on Nick's bed. There's a shoebox at the foot of

it.

Rudy opens it. It's filled with Ashley's letters.

He trails a finger along them, must be over a hundred pages.

He selects the one nearest the front. Surveys it.

Rudy turns to the wall. To the lakeside picture of Ashley, a

swimsuit siren. Rudy stares sadly.

And puts the letter away.

CLOSE ON RUDY'S CALENDAR - NIGHT

As his hand slashes through December 21st. Prison's over.

EXT. IRON MOUNTAIN PRISON - DAY

Snow swirls. Near blizzard conditions. A heavy steel door

BANGS open, held by an EXIT GUARD. And FIFTEEN CONVICTS,

make that EX-CONVICTS, trudge onto a fenced drive, covered

in snow.

Rudy stumbles out with the group, shivering in a Goodwill

hand-me-down coat. Thin canvas, wouldn't keep him warm in

summer.

Secondhand shoes. No possessions.

He clutches his sides with his hands, hunched over. All

fifteen huddle and herd toward the gate at the end of the

fenceway.

BEYOND THE GATE

There are a dozen FRIENDS and RELATIVES waiting. A few MEN,

several WOMEN, a couple KIDS. Bundled in winter coats, hats

and hoods. A prison shuttle bus is parked behind them.

The released cons reach the gate, where a GATE GUARD unlocks

the fence to the outside world. Fifteen men are free.

The ex-cons and relatives scan each other's faces. Wives

rush over to embrace their men. Pals nod to ex-cons and trade

slaps on backs. Reunion time.

The snow batters them, wind whipping. Rudy keeps his head

down, leaning forward, keeps walking. Toward the bus. But he

can't help himself -- he glances up --

TO SEE A YOUNG WOMAN

bundled in a silver ski jacket, pink wool hat with a poofball

on top, scarf and mittens. Scanning the released prisoners.

RUDY

drops his head, looks away. Climbs onto the shuttle bus.

INT. BUS - CONTINUOUS

Rudy shakes his arms, basking in the vehicle's warmth. Takes

a seat at the back. A couple other lone ex-cons climb aboard.

Then the cons with relatives start to pile in.

Rudy's window is steamed against the cold. He stares into

his lap, then reaches for his coat pocket. Takes out the

picture of Ashley, in her bikini by the lake. Stares at it.

He rubs his window with his sleeve.

Outside, the woman in the silver coat turns this way and

that, troubled. She's watching the other ex-cons climbing

onto the bus with their loved ones.

The woman looks back to the prison. The guard closing the

gate. The steel door has been shut. No one else is coming.

Rudy watches her sadly.

Aboard the bus, the seats fill up. Ex-cons are feeling up

their wives, kids are climbing on their absent daddies,

buddies are jawing loudly 'bout how the neighborhood's

changed.

The woman outside is now alone. Silver coat, pink poofball.

Rudy looks at the bikini picture again.

Then at the shivering bundle.

The bus ENGINE starts up. In the seat beside Rudy, an EX-CON

makes out with his WIFE while his bratty KID punches his

leg.

Out the window, the young woman is scanning the bus windows.

Then the prison again. She turns in a worried circle. Rudy

looks swiftly away. Closes his eyes.

The bus door closes. It REVS and starts forward. Rudy sighs

with relief. The photo of Ashley falls to the floor.

EXT. PRISON RELEASE GATE - CONTINUOUS

The young woman watches the bus pull away, down the snowy

road. But it doesn't get fifty feet before it suddenly stops.

The door opens. And Rudy steps out.

The bus REVS up again and GROANS OFF into the winter.

The young woman pushes her poofball hat out of her eyes. We

get a look at her face for the first time. Skin pale, lips

turning blue, but it's the girl from the pictures. It's

Ashley.

She watches Rudy's figure trudge back toward her. Snow

obscuring him until he's right in front of her. Both of them

shivering. Both of them standing there.

And finally:

Ashley nods. And Rudy sadly smiles.

INT. TRUCK STOP - DAY

Rudy and Ashley sit at a coffee shop booth. Coats still on.

Big rigs bluster by on the highway outside.

Two untouched cups of coffee sit before them.

She's watching him in silence.

Ashley says nothing. Rudy looks at his own:

Ashley nods.

Ashley looks at it, like she's just realizing it's there.

She lifts the cup, takes a sip. Puts it down.

Rudy nods. Silence again.

Beat.

Ashley nods. Rudy bites his lip.

He trails off.

Rudy goes silent. Whoa. Ashley considers.

Another awkward pause. Rudy picks up a milk dispenser beside

the coffee, puts it to his lips. It gives him a wide white

mustache. He stares straight-faced.

Ashley gives a bashful smile, covers it.

Ashley smiles again, blushing now.

They stare across the table, drifting into one another's

eyes.

Outside, another truck rumbles by, whipping up snow.

INT. INTERSTATE MOTEL ROOM - DAY

And Rudy and Ashley SLAM inside, kissing passionately, limbs

intertwined, pawing at each other's coats. Rudy kicks the

door closed. Mouths devouring, hands lost in snowy hair.

They collide with a side table, knocking over a lamp, tumbling

onto the lumpy bed. Rudy tears at her silver coat and sweater

and turtleneck and capilene and whatever else's she got on,

as Ashley's lips explore his neck and body. Writhing and

wrestling and rolling off the bed. Bang.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - LATER

Rudy and Ashley fuck like lovers in R-rated movies.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY - LATER

The bed sheets lie tangled on the floor. Rudy and Ashley

rest naked amidst them. Her pretty young head on his chest,

all their inhibitions gone. Rudy strokes her arms.

Ashley studies his face, smiles in reflection.

She turns to him, kisses his chest --

She turns over playfully, eases herself back atop him. Ready

to make up for lost time. With a kiss:

INT. SHOPPING MALL - DAY

Ashley runs through an Xmas-decorated megamall, dragging

Rudy behind her. Both of them laughing, as she hauls him

over to some cookie bakery company:

INT. J.C. PENNEY'S DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

Teddy bears with nightcaps, green bows, red ribbons. Ashley's

tearing through men's clothing racks, all love and confidence.

Rudy's got a bunch of purchase bags weighing him down:

She pulls out a hellacious black leather fringe number.

She puts the jacket against his chest, smiling. Rudy sighs.

She whips a Penney's card from her purse, grins wickedly:

She runs off with the jacket. Rudy turns to a dressing mirror,

left to stare at his reflection. An ex-con in rags, with a

half-dozen holiday shopping bags. To himself:

Rudy nods till he convinces himself. Can't help but smile.

INT. TOY STORE - DAY

Puzzles, Barbies and dinosaurs. KIDS scurrying, PARENTS

chasing. Rudy and Ashley with a scared TEEN CLERK:

The clerk glances around, then, low:

INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY

CLOSE ON CONVEYOR

As bottles of wine, vodka and rum, cartons of egg nog and

orange juice, and countless prepackaged sandwiches come

scrolling past.

EXT. SUPERMARKET PARKING LOT - DUSK

Light snow falls. Rudy, in his new black fringe eyesore, and

Ashley carry grocery bags across the icy asphalt:

It comes out too harsh. Ashley stops, a little hurt.

Rudy softens, touches her arms:

He kisses her. She nods, dismisses it, kisses back.

EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT

Ashley's Chevy Nova pulls back into the lot of the roadside

joint. There's an artificial (silver) Christmas tree tied to

the roof.

She and Rudy climb out; she heads for the office:

She smiles, sashays sexily away. Rudy watches her go, admiring

his good fortune. Then pops the trunk, collects some of their

shopping score. Gifts and goodies.

Loaded down, he struggles to the motel room, balances bags

on his knee, gets the key in the door, and heads inside.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Pitch dark. Rudy fumbles his way in:

Rudy drops the shopping bags, whirls around, as a stocky

black shadow, MERLIN, all 280 pounds of him, KICKS the door

shut --

-- and SWINGS a baseball bat toward Rudy's chest. Rudy gets

an arm down to deflect the blow, but it still stings like a

mother. Rudy HOWLS. Merlin comes at him again --

-- and this time Rudy slips by. Merlin's bat SHATTERS a

dresser.

Rudy grabs him by the neck, kicks out his knees and wrests

him to the ground. Grabs the bat --

-- and gets DECKED from behind by another shadow, PUG, a

little white guy with a snarl. They go CRASHING onto the

bed, grappling for leverage, and then to the floor --

-- where Rudy grabs a champagne bottle from the groceries

and BASHES it backwards, shattering it over Pug's head!

Pug lets go, as Rudy scrambles up, and Merlin's got him again

in a bear hug. Rudy's struggling, whirling with him, crashing

into one wall, then another, YELLING for help --

-- until he hears the PUMP-LOAD SNAP of a shotgun.

Rudy stops still. A lamp clicks on.

Standing in silhouette, a figure in a leather duster holds a

sawed-off on him.

Another lamp comes on. Rudy, still in Merlin's choke-hold,

gets a look at the gunman, GABRIEL. Weathered face, stringy

hair, early 30's. Handsome in a scuzzy way. He's seen a lot

of road.

Rudy stares, totally thrown. Pug, the little guy, bad teeth,

bad hair, bad skin, gets up spitting blood and champagne.

-- and slugs Rudy in the gut. Merlin yanks him back up.

Merlin's a black widebody, wears a goatee and brass knuckles.

Behind Merlin stands a fourth intruder, a stone-faced Indian

in a Grateful Dead longsleeve. JUMPY. Guarding the door.

Gabriel's studying Rudy, up and down. Nods. Merlin relaxes

his choke-hold so Rudy can breathe.

As the room's door gets kicked open --

and the silver fake evergreen fills the doorway, getting

forced through with Ashley's grunts and groans --

Merlin traps his jaw shut. The tree comes squeezing through,

followed by Ashley, face in branches --

She's GRABBED from behind by Jumpy. Ashley screams, but he

slams her against the wall. The tree hits the ground.

Rudy fights to help her, but Merlin's got him. Pug locks

Ashley's arms. She fights, muffled cries, but Jumpy and Pug

have her held firmly. Her face to the wall --

Ashley's turned to face him. Her eyes widen. Gabriel nods.

Rudy's jaw drops. He looks to Ashley. Then to Gabriel.

Ashley YELLS, enraged, kicking and clawing. Jumpy slams her

back against the wall for her trouble --

Gabriel steps to Rudy. Studies him.

Gabriel raises the sawed-off to Rudy's chest. Rudy flinches,

but Merlin's got him.

Gabriel fixes her with a stare. She shuts up. To Rudy:

Rudy's trying to speak, voice CHOKED. Gabriel nods to Merlin,

who again eases his hold. Rudy coughs.

Gabriel frowns. Rudy turns to Ashley.

Gabriel looks from her to him, then lowers his sawed-off,

and SWINGS it into Rudy's stomach. Rudy buckles. Panicked.

A glance of regret amidst his desperation. Ashley stares

back, confused, searching his eyes.

Gabriel RATCHETS him across the chin with the gun butt. Rudy

hits the floor. Gabriel spins on Ashley, enraged:

Gabriel puts the gun to Rudy's head.

Gabriel doesn't shoot. Studies Rudy.

Gabriel KICKS Rudy in the jaw. Ashley screams. Gabriel motions

to his boys: Jumpy and Pug drag her outside. Gabriel KICKS

Rudy again. Rudy lies there and takes it.

Merlin lights a cig, examines Rudy and Ashley's grocery bags:

Merlin nods, tucks the bags under his arms, leaves the room.

Gabriel drops beside Rudy, with a sick smile:

EXT. INTERSTATE - NIGHT

As we SWOOP DOWN onto a four-lane stretch of winter highway,

arcing into the blackness.

CLOSING ON an 18-wheel tractor trailer, RUMBLING onward,

emblazoned with "Great Lakes Trucking." There's an airbrush

painting on the door to the cab, of a skeleton looking thru

a flaming radial tire, and the legend "Motor City Monster."

INT. GABRIEL'S RIG - CAB - NIGHT

Gabriel at the wheel, Merlin smoking, Jumpy eating cookies.

A TRUCK passes; Gabriel waves. A moment later, the CB

crackles:

INT. GABRIEL'S RIG - TRAILER - NIGHT

CLOSE ON RUDY

eyes closed, dried blood, head rocking side to side. He

winces, waking, with the headache to end all headaches.

Her hand strokes his face. Rudy's eyes struggle open.

ON FULL SCENE

They're in the back of the truck. There's some packing mats,

rope, two tall storage lockers, and Ashley's Chevy Nova.

Rudy's head is in her lap. He struggles to sit up, finds his

wrists tied with cord. He looks at Ashley, follows her gaze.

In a corner, Pug sits guard in a beanbag chair. He's dipping

chewing tobacco, reading Road & Track, headphones on. Gives

Rudy a bored glance, then back to his magazine.

Ashley nods. Rudy looks around, remembering.

From the corner, Pug spits some chaw. Ashley wheels.

Pug doesn't even look up. Still stroking Rudy's face:

The truck shakes.

Rudy stares at her. She's scared

She reaches out for him; Rudy scrambles to his knees, tumbles

against the opposite wall of the trailer.

Ashley runs at him, wraps her arms around him tightly. He

tries to fight her off. She won't let go.

Rudy stops fighting. She has a terrified look in her eye.

Checks to Pug: he's watching them now, chewing slower. Ashley

turns them away from the little guy's view

Rudy stares at her coldly.

Ashley stares, panicked. Pug's still watching them.

Rudy gives her a stone cold stare. Ashley crumbles, touching

his face, shaking her head, tears. Devastated.

The truck shudders through downshifts, to a groaning stop.

Ashley embraces Rudy fiercely, holding on for the last.

The trailer gate RATTLES open into the truck's roof.

Ashley shuts her eyes.

EXT. REST STOP/INT. GABRIEL'S RIG - CONTINUOUS

The rig all alone at a snowy rest area. Gabriel, Merlin and

Jumpy climb inside as silhouette sentries. Gabriel surveys,

then lifts a piece of paper:

Gabriel puts the letter down.

Rudy steps out of her hold and stalks forward:

Gabriel stares at him. Then crumples the letter.

Merlin and Jumpy grab Rudy and THROW him from the truck. He

HITS the snowy parking lot on his side, hands bound.

Merlin and Jumpy drop to the snow, picking Rudy up.

Rudy meets eyes with Ashley. She's caught.

She charges at her brother. Gabriel grabs her, spins her

into control and PUNCHES her in the jaw. She goes flying out

of the truck. HITS the ground hard. In shock.

Merlin and Jumpy march Rudy across the lot. A stand of dark

and snowy woods ahead...

Rudy struggles, desperate but held firm. Jumpy loads a

handgun, as he muses for the very first time:

At the woods' edge, Jumpy gives the gun to Merlin --

The gun goes to Rudy's head. A bullet fills the chamber.

Ashley SCREAMS. Rudy shuts his eyes tight and --

Merlin and Jumpy stop. Ashley stops screaming. Gabriel turns.

His guards look to Gabriel. Rudy nods, sweating.

Ashley gasps relief. Gabriel smiles.

Merlin and Jumpy march Rudy back. Still on the ground:

Rudy won't meet her eyes.

Rudy looks at Ashley. Her eyes plead forgiveness.

Merlin and Jumpy wrench Rudy backward. Ashley reaches out to

him, starts to speak. He looks right through her. She goes

silent, casts her eyes to the snow.

Everyone looks to the truck. Weasel-faced Pug has sidled

next to Gabriel. Spits some chaw.

It hits Merlin's boots. Merlin growls.

Gabriel considers, jumps off the truck. Walks to Rudy:

Gabriel puts a gun under Rudy's chin. Rudy flinches.

Rudy stares him down. Gabriel shrugs.

He puts the gun away. Ashley regains her breath.

Gabriel gives a challenging stare. Rudy stares right back.

It's a showdown.

The trucker slowly smiles. His crew chuckles.

They've stopped laughing.

INT. TRUCK STOP - NIGHT

CLOSE ON HOT CHOCOLATE AND PECAN PIE

The six of them sit in a booth, Ashley leaning on Rudy's

shoulder apologetically. The four truckers watch him scarf

his pie. "White Christmas" plays over the speakers.

Rudy raises a finger sharply. Silence. He continues eating.

Scrapes the last of his pie crumbs.

Rudy stares hard. Gobbles the crumbs, washes it down with

his hot chocolate. Savors it. Sets the mug down.

Gabriel nods to Jumpy, who snaps his arm up, SMASHING his

knuckles into Rudy's face.

Rudy holds his nose. Blood trickles.

Rudy turns slightly pale.

INT. TRUCK STOP BATHROOM - NIGHT

Rudy slams in, letting the door smack shut behind him. It's

a tiny windowless closet. Rudy kicks a stall door, pacing.

He stalks a circle, grabs a sink, and stares at his reflection

in the mirror. He looks a wreck. He settles down.

INT. TRUCK STOP - MOMENTS LATER

A COUPLE leaves the booth behind Gabriel's crew. Pug and

Merlin reach over, steal their leftovers and dig in. Ashley

fidgets.

Jumpy regards the garlands painted on the windows beside:

Everyone stares at Jumpy.

The Indian nods. Gabriel shakes his head.

INT. BATHROOM - SAME

Rudy crouches behind the door, a piece of iron pipe in his

grip, ready to strike. Listening... listening...

AS the door SLAMS open, swinging fast and BASHING him in the

head.

Rudy tags the floor, drops the pipe, knocked out.

Merlin and Pug gaze down on him, shaking their heads. Pug

spits tobacco. Hits Merlin's boots again.

INT. TRUCK STOP - MOMENTS LATER

Rudy's back, with a new facial bruise. Ashley reaches for

his hand; he pulls it away. Gabriel unfolds a piece of paper --

it's a crude map.

Merlin exhales some smoke in Pug's face. Pug hacks, shoves

him.

Rudy surveys the table. All five waiting for him. Sighs.

Gabriel passes the map across the table. Rudy stares at it.

Rudy's still staring.

Gabriel reaches across the booth, grabs Rudy's shirt, pulls

his face to table level:

Neither man blinks.

Rudy nods, pretending to be dawned upon.

Gabriel stares at him, suspicious.

Rudy locks eyes with Gabriel.

A WAITRESS comes over, drops their check on the table. It

rests near Rudy. Rudy locks eyes with Gabriel.

And pushes the check his way.

EXT. SNOWY HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The "Motor City Monster" RUMBLES along a two-lane blacktop.

Across barren Michigan tundra. A sign reads "You Are Now

Entering Powahachee Indian Lands. No Littering."

INT. GABRIEL'S RIG - CAB - NIGHT

Gabriel drives, with Ashley beside him. Rudy sits in the

sleeper, Jumpy sitting guard.

OUT THE WINDOW

they pass a brightly neon-lit building, with a parking lot

full of cars. The Tomahawk Casino, with a red neon axe

pointing the way.

And a marquee which reads: "10X ODDS ON CRAPS. $5.95 PRIME

RIB. PERFORMING TONIGHT: DAKOTA!"

The truck motors on by. Gabriel nods to Rudy:

EXT. KNIGHTS INN - NIGHT

A Midwestern castles-and-Camelot-themed chain hotel, amidst

an outcrop of roadside exit civilization: fast food and gas.

The Great Lakes Trucking rig parked in the hotel's lot.

INT. KNIGHTS INN - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Faux stonemasonry and torches. "Regal" purple carpets. Gabriel

and his crew escort Rudy into --

INT. HOTEL ROOM

-- his quarters. Jumpy marches Rudy to the bed, snaps a

handcuff around his ankle --

-- and snaps the other cuff to the bedframe.

Gabriel tosses him a TV remote. Merlin rips the room's phone

out of the wall, takes it. They return to the hallway.

The truckers leave. Rudy tugs at his ankle cuff, sighs,

collapses back on the bed. Ashley has remained.

Rudy sits up, sees her.

She approaches instead. Sits beside. Gently:

Ashley stands her ground, guilty.

She reaches to touch him. Rudy turns his back on her.

Ashley frowns.

Rudy looks at her with new interest.

For the first time in a long time... Rudy smiles.

Rudy stares at her. The smile gone.

Ashley pulls away, walks to the door. Turns back, wanting to

say something, but Rudy's not even looking her way.

With a fiery look, she strides from the room.

Rudy stands, can't get far cuffed to the bed. Checks the end

table, finds a Bible and a deck of cards.

Out his second-floor window is a view of the rear parking

lot.

Rudy watches as a Chevy Blazer parks and two drunk FISHERMEN

get out. The truck's bumper sticker reads "Ice Fishermen Do

It All Year Long."

Rudy watches the good ol' boys stumble toward the hotel. He

turns back, surveys his new prison cell

INT. RUDY'S ROOM - MORNING

The bed has been dragged to the door to the bathroom, the

comforter and pillow are on the floor, "Miracle on 34th St."

is on the TV, and Rudy lies asleep on the ground, ankle still

cuffed.

Two SHADOWS fall across him.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

Rudy is brusquely dragged out by Jumpy and Merlin, passing

Ashley, who lies asleep in the hall, head on a pillow.

They march him onward. Rudy glances over his shoulder at

Ashley.

Who spent the night at his door.

INT. GAME ROOM - MORNING

A wood-panelled room adjacent to a small indoor pool, with

arcade games and a dart board. Gabriel's with Pug, tossing

darts, as Jumpy and a chain-smoking Merlin haul Rudy in.

Gabriel THWAPS a dart into the board, to shut them up.

Pug empties a shopping bag on a pinball machine. Cowboy boots,

spurs, a black cowboy hat, a black rhinestone jacket and a

longhaired wig tumbles out.

Merlin and Jumpy shove Rudy toward the merchandise. Gabriel

slams another dart into the board, then turns:

Rudy examines his new hair and cowboy gear.

EXT. TOMAHAWK CASINO - DAY

The Chevy Nova crunches into the parking lot in the shadow

of the gaudy neon axe.

INT. NOVA - DAY

Rudy's in "disguise": paste-on goatee, tinted shades and

black cowboy gear. Very Nashville Network.

He's wedged between Jumpy and Merlin, wearing handcuffs.

Gabriel, Ashley and Pug in the back.

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

Rudy stamps feet, shivering in the cold, as Merlin unlocks

his cuffs. Gabriel reaches to help Ashley out --

She edges toward Rudy, then stops. A chill still there.

Gabriel hands a bill.

Gabriel glares, turns to his crew. Mutters, rubs his fingers

together. Merlin, Pug and Jumpy reach for their wallets,

grumbling. Gabriel takes a few twenties from each.

Rudy nods thanks as Gabriel hands him the cash --

Rudy pockets the wad, hooks his elbow for Ashley to slip her

arm through. Grins with a drawl:

She regards him warily, but puts her arm in his.

He tips his hat, and strides for the casino entrance. Gabriel

and his truckers watch them go.

INT. TOMAHAWK CASINO - DAY

The cascade of JINGLING and JANGLING COINS fills the brightly

lit, horrendously-carpeted space. Wooden-beamed ceilings

suggest a rustic theme, but the neon slots, lush green tables

and red wheels of fortune are pure Midwest Vegas.

The Tomahawk is tiny by Nevada standards, about the size of

a large bingo hall. This morning, about FIFTY GAMBLERS mill

about.

Skimpily-dressed COCKTAIL WAITRESSES, most of them Powahachee

Indians, pimp drinks. Bored DEALERS deal.

As the sound of slot machine payoffs suddenly go silent --

INT. JACK BANGS' OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE ON STEREO SYSTEM

And some scattered cassettes, labeled "Big Winners," "Little

Winners," and "Medium Cash." A HAND pops the tape currently

in the system -- "Big, BIG Winners" and flips it over. Presses

play. The sounds of JINGLING and JANGLING return.

ON FULL SCENE

An office overlooking the casino floor through smoked glass.

JACK BANGS, late 50's, silver-hair, capped teeth, shark suit

and high blood pressure, paces his office. He's got the air

of a washed-up gameshow host, Wink Martindale, Peter

Tommarkin, one of those hacks. Right now he's all caffeine.

Two INDIAN GOVERNORS sit before him. Business-dressed, with

overcoats, ponytails. One gray-haired, one jet-black.

The tribal governors stare him down.

Jack Bangs stares at them both. Considers his next move --

The young man stands, stares Jack Bangs in the eye.

INT. TOMAHAWK - DAY

Rudy and Ashley move away from a change booth, with a bucket

of quarters. Rudy messes with his cowboy getup, noting two

SECURITY GUARDS punch a code in a private door, step inside:

They settle at a slot machine. Another SECURITY GUARD walks

past them. Rudy turns his back. Ashley notices.

At the door, Merlin and Jumpy enter, wandering through the

slots.

Rudy sees them.

As he strides away --

MOVING THROUGH THE CASINO

with Rudy, ambling among the tables, making a show of checking

out the layout. In reality, he's surveying the GAMBLERS.

Passing the cage, he walks right by Jack Bangs and the Indian

governors. Jack Bangs is all smiles, while the governors

turn their backs an him and storm out.

ARRIVING AT THE BAR

Rudy gives him a strange look. The bartender shrugs. Rudy

still scans the tables, settling on --

A BLACKJACK TABLE

where a trio of COLLEGE KIDS are forking over chips. One of

them's dark-haired with a goatee, a sweatshirt and jeans.

Rudy studies this kid for moment.

BACK AT THE BAR

Jack Bangs sidles up, distraught. The barkeep hands him a

bottle. Bangs takes a swig.

Rudy gets his drinks, as Jack Bangs turns his way:

Rudy winces, glancing to see Merlin and Jumpy watching him.

Frowns on their faces.

Jack Bangs, smile falls flat.

Rudy shrugs, smiles, takes off with his drinks. Bangs looks

sick, turns to a FAT GUY on the next stool over. But before

he can ask, the guy shakes his head --

Bangs turns to the bartender, puts his head in his hands:

From the slots, we hear a JACKPOT PAYOFF.

THROUGH THE TABLES

walks Rudy, as Merlin sidles up next to him:

Merlin eyes him darkly, but lets him walk on into the slots.

As he nears Ashley, he glances to the blackjack table, where

the College Kid has left... heading for the bathroom --

-- and as a barely-dressed COCKTAIL WAITRESS crosses between

Rudy and Ashley, blocking her view of him --

Rudy pretends to crash into her, splashing the rum and Coke

into his own face --

Reaching Ashley, his goatee is dripping --

He hustles for the bathroom. A moment later, Jumpy storms

by.

Stops at Ashley.

INT. CASINO BATHROOM - DAY

The College Kid is zipping up when Rudy SLAMS into his back,

money in hand, crashing him against the wall:

INT. TOMAHAWK SAME

Merlin's at a slot machine, watching the hall to the

bathrooms. A WAITRESS arrives, hands him a beer:

The waitress frowns.

Merlin stares at her. Then drops his drink to the floor,

charging for the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM

As Merlin crashes in, seeing the cowboy hat and jacket, back

turned, adjusting a belt. As the figure turns around.

It's the College Kid. Merlin stops in his tracks --

-- as Rudy CRASHES into him from a stall, kicking his legs

out, driving his throat into a countertop. Merlin hits the

ground, gagging. Rudy wears the kid's sweatshirt:

The College Kid, shaking, hustles out the door.

INT. TOMAHAWK - CONTINUOUS

As the College Kid, in Rudy's black getup, strides out of

the bathroom hall, walking for the casino exit.

From the slots, Ashley and Jumpy glance up, seeing him go.

From their vantage, it looks like Rudy. They frown.

As they're watching the Kid hit the door, Rudy darts out of

the hall, heads the other way.

EXT. PARKING LOT/INT. NOVA

Gabriel and Pug sit sentry, seeing the cowboy figure leave

the casino. wandering into-the parking lot... away from them.

As the figure unlocks the driver's door of a Trans Am --

Pug REVS the engine, speeds through the lot, cutting off the

Trans Am from backing away.

Gabriel jumps out, HAULS the cowboy from his car and sees

it's the College Kid. Rudy's gone.

INT. TOMAHAWK

Merlin stumbles out of the bathroom, holding his throat.

Catches Jumpy and Ashley's eyes from the slots:

INT. CASINO KITCHEN

As Rudy charges toward COOKS, holding a buffet plate aloft --

-- hands them the plate, hurries past them, and out the --

EXT. REAR OF CASINO - DAY

-- to the back of the building. In his stolen clothes, he

charges across the staff parking area and into the snowy

expanse of meadow beyond.

Running for a thicket of winter woods.

EXT. PARKING LOT

Merlin and Jumpy stride out to join Gabriel and Pug. Ashley

follows, stumbling to keep up.

Gabriel darkens.

EXT. SNOWY MEADOW - DAY

Rudy races as best he can through the waves of snow. He keeps

struggling, losing his footing, fighting his way toward the

cover of trees. From far away...

Rudy turns back to see Merlin, Jumpy and Pug round into view

back at the parking lot. They see him.

And charge into the snowfield.

Rudy breaks into the trees.

EXT. PARKING LOT

Gabriel pushes Ashley into the Nova and peals out of the

parking lot. Onto reservation roads.

EXT. WOODS - ON CHASE - DAY

Rudy darts among barren oaks and brush pines, crunching deeper

into snowdrifts, slowing him down. Stumbling forward,

shivering, breath frosting --

-- as Merlin, Jumpy and Pug reach the treeline. Gaining but

struggling too. With guns held.

Rudy keeps battling through the drifts --

-- as GUNSHOTS start to ring out. Rudy glances back to rest;

the truckers are a hundred yards distant. But as he turns to

struggle on, treebark SPLITS apart beside him.

Rudy keeps running.

INT. NOVA

Bouncing over a snowy dirt road, having found a shortcut

into the woods. Gabriel searches the trees, Ashley too.

EXT. WOODS

Merlin, Jumpy and Pug keep up their steady march. Rudy's

running figure now only fifty yards distant.

ANGLE to show Merlin's striding right in Rudy's bootprints.

Pug FIRES off two shots.

They KICK UP snow just behind Rudy, struggling, panting...

Rudy's anguished, ducking behind some pines, trying to brush

away his footprints. Realizes it's useless.

A BULLET whistles through the pine branches.

Rudy takes a breath, crashes onward --

-- then stops at the sound of a RUMBLING. Getting louder.

Closer. It's a car's engine.

Rudy spins for the source, focuses, and manages to make out

a snow-covered dirt road fifty yards away, down a swale.

Another BULLET smashes treebark. Rudy runs for it.

EXT. WOODED ROAD - DAY

As Rudy leaps out to wave down the car, as around the corner

comes a Chevy Nova --

-- with Gabriel and Ashley inside. Gabriel's eyes widen, he

floors the gas, RACING right for Rudy.

Rudy scampers toward the opposite roadside, a steep wooded

slope cradling a meadow and frozen river --

-- as Ashley grabs Gabriel's steering wheel, swerving the

other way. Gabriel fights her for control --

-- as the Nova just misses Rudy, who dives off the road,

hits the slope and tumbles head-over-heels toward its bottom,

a hundred feet down, kicking up geysers of snow!

On the road, the Nova skids to a stop. Ashley and Gabriel

leap out, as Merlin, Jumpy and Pug reach the road.

AT THE SLOPE'S BOTTOM

Rudy pops to his feet, a dazed snowball.

BACK UP AT THE ROAD

Gabriel grabs a rifle from the Nova, steps to the slope-top

edge and takes aim --

-- as Ashley suddenly slams into him from behind --

Sending the both of them tumbling down the slope! Sliding

and tangled, the rifle flying from Gabriel's grasp --

TO THE BOTTOM

-- where they come to a tangled, snowy halt. Gabriel struggles

to clear the ice from his face --

-- as the butt of his rifle cracks him in the jaw.

He extends a hand to Ashley --

-- and hauls her to her feet. Ashley beams. As Gabriel howls,

the two of them scramble away from the woods, Rudy with the

rifle, toward the meadow and its frozen pond.

More GUNSHOTS ring as Merlin, Jumpy and Pug slide their way

down the ravine.

EXT. FROZEN RIVER - CONTINUOUS

Rudy and Ashley race out across the ice. The traction's

slippery, but there's no way around. There's a highway bridge

two hundred yards away, with sparse truck traffic.

He grips her hand tighter, as SHOTS crash into the ice at

their feet. Suddenly, the ground splinters and gives way --

-- and Ashley goes plummeting through to the river! She

vanishes from sight in an instant!

Rudy scrambles back, onto sturdy ice. He stares, stunned, at

the ripples in the freezing water.

Ashley's not coming up.

RUDY

Looks to the truckers in pursuit. Coming down the ridge.

Then the highway. Safety within sight.

But he can't run. Cursing himself, he grips the rifle tightly

and LEAPS into the ice-hole --

EXT. RIVER BENEATH THE ICE

-- plummeting underwater, the temperature hitting his body

like needles. He writhes, spinning around --

-- and sees Ashley ten yards away, desperately pounding at

the ice above her. Strength giving out.

Rudy struggles to her, wrapping an arm around her. She fights,

panicked, clawing at the ice, both of them pulled further

away from the opening.

With Ashley safely in hand, Rudy raises his rifle-arm,

pressing the barrel against the ice above them --

-- and FIRES. A HOLE blasts a shaft of light into the gray-

blue. Rudy FIRES again. Another HOLE caves in. Ashley reaches

for a sheath of ice, splashing --

TO THE SURFACE

-- clutching frozen ground, treading water. Rudy surfaces

beside her, the both of them gasping, facing the bridge.

Instinctively, they spin around --

TO FIND GABRIEL, MERLIN, JUMPY AND PUG

-- standing right behind them. Guns trained.

He extends his hand, a gesture of help. But menacing.

INT. GABRIEL'S RIG - DAY

Pitch black. We can barely make out a huddled, fetal form,

quaking and trembling. It's Rudy. Dripping wet, on the verge

of hypothermia. Trying to stay conscious:

The trailer doors swing open, crashing harsh light upon him.

He squints into the light, shivering madly.

INT. KNIGHTS INN GAME ROOM - DAY

Gabriel is hurling darts again, focused, expressionless.

Bullseye.

Merlin and Jumpy haul Rudy in. He collapses at Gabriel's

feet, unable to stand. Still trembling.

A couple KIDS scamper into the doorway --

-- and Merlin slams the door in their face. Gabriel hurls

another bullseye, then retrieves his darts from the board.

Gabriel strides back to him, with two darts.

He lifts Rudy's shaking hand, puts a dart in it. Rudy's

fingers are half-frozen, they don't bend. Gabriel has to

wedge it in.

Gabriel turns to the board, ten feet away, and tosses his

dart. It thunks in the "13" wedge of the outermost ring.

He steps aside for Rudy. Rudy struggles to raise his hand,

trembling badly. He focuses on the board, teeth chattering,

tries to reposition his fingers, rears back and throws --

-- except the dart remains in his frozen grip. He brings his

icy hand back, tries to move his fingers. And the dart finally

tumbles out and hits the floor at his feet.

Gabriel smiles, steps close.

Gabriel grabs his jacket and hurls him backward. Rudy CRASHES

into a chair, flanked by video games.

Gabriel spins to the dartboard, pulls out a fistful and

wheels. He whistles a dart at Rudy's head. it SMACKS the

wall beside his ear.

He whistles another. It TRUNKS right above his head. A third

HITS the wall by his chin.

Gabriel flings another dart. Just misses Rudy's other ear.

Another dart NAILS the wall, right through Rudy's hair.

Gabriel strides to Rudy, sitting stock-still, his head ringed

by darts. Stares him down.

Gabriel pulls the darts free. Backs away again.

GABRIEL RAISES A DART TO THROW

-- and then lowers it. Believing he's gotten a reprieve,

Rudy relaxes, his shivering coming under control.

Gabriel rears back and WHISTLES another dart. It plugs into

Rudy's chest. Rudy screams. Gabriel FIRES another, skewering

him in the ribs. Then a third, fourth and fifth.

Rudy howls in pain, his body too numb to defend itself. Five

darts protrude from his chest, colorful plastic feathering

and spreading rivulets of blood.

Gabriel stalks close.

INT. RUDY'S ROOM - DAY

Rudy gets hurled inside by Merlin and Jumpy. He hits the

floor beside the bed, where Ashley sits prisoner. Pug sits

guard, watching "How The Grinch Stole Christmas" on TV.

She falls to his side. Merlin cuffs Rudy's ankle again to

the bedframe. He and Jumpy head out --

Pug's engrossed in the cartoon. They're singing in Whoville.

Pug snaps to. Shuts off the TV, spits some chaw on the floor

and gone. Rudy and Ashley are left alone.

She touches his bloodied chest. Rudy winces badly.

Ashley helps pull his shirt off, sees the wounds:

Ashley has leapt to the bathroom. She brings wet washcloths

back to clean and dress --

She kisses him softly. Rudy meets her eyes. Staring to get

his bearings back...

Rudy studies her hopeful face, attending to his wounds. still

weak and distant:

Rudy touches a hand to her hair.

Ashley stares, touched, still kneading the cloth into his

chest.

Rudy struggles up, his face level with hers. She kisses him

tenderly. Lingering.

And this time Rudy responds, mouth seeking, working down her

neck.

Her eyes flutter closed.

Ashley hesitates. Carefully strokes his chest. He's still

kissing her, softly, still somewhat delirious.

As he returns to her lips, mouths joining. Ashley's eyes

close again, as they fold into each other...

...and move slowly, tenderly, back to the floor.

EXT. KNIGHTS INN HOTEL - DUSK

A bitter cold sunset. Through a room's window, Rudy and Ashley

lie tangled in sheets on the carpet.

INT. RUDY'S ROOM

Ashley nestles against him. Rudy stares skyward. Hard.

Ashley frowns. There's a new look in Rudy's eyes.

Rudy meets her eyes.

He nods, scheming the way he's always known.

INT. KNIGHTS INN RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A medieval-themed biergarten. A happy FAMILY of five sits at

a booth, singing along to "Good King Wencelas."

In the booth beside, Merlin and Pug are holding court.

Merlin's puffing smoke rings. Pug watches dully, chewing:

The Happy Family stops singing. Pug considers, spits a wad.

The Happy Family trade discomfited looks. Merlin shrugs,

takes another drag.

The Happy Family flees their booth. Pug and Merlin glance

over. And grab their leftovers. Rifling the grub:

Behind them, Gabriel and Jumpy file into the biergarten,

leading Rudy and Ashley to the booth. Meeting commenced.

Rudy, battered and freezer-burnt, gets shoved in first.

Gabriel throws down the casino map:

Rudy takes the map, glances at Ashley, and then takes charge.

For the first time, he's giving the orders:

Rudy takes the map, points to the gaming tables area:

His confident manner wavers. Gabriel notices, narrows his

eyes. Rudy quickly grabs the map again:

Gabriel eyes him darkly.

She puts an arm around Rudy, smiles. That's her man.

Gabriel's eyes don't leave Rudy's.

Gabriel smiles.

INT. GABRIEL'S RIG - TRAILER - NIGHT CLOSE ON STORAGE LOCKER

Pulled open to reveal FIVE SANTA CLAUS SUITS, hanging side-

by-side. Red polyester coats and pants, white felt trim and

black buckles, black boots and red caps.

WIDEN TO REVEAL TRAILER

As Gabriel lifts a Santa Claus suit and presses it against

Rudy. Ashley, Merlin, Jungy and Pug look on.

He puts the suit back in the locker, pulls another. Finding

Rudy's size.

He turns to see Merlin open another locker. This one stacked

with rifles, carbines and handguns.

INT. RUDY'S ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE ON SKETCH

of a floor plan, a sheet of paper overlaid on Gabriel's map

of the casino. A pencil draws a boxy room and labels it

"Security Video Room." Then an eraser wipes it out.

WIDEN TO REVEAL RUDY

still cuffed to the bedframe, pulled close to a desk. He's

sitting, working on the security level map.

The door opens; Ashley enters, looking worried:

Ashley walks over, puts her arms around his neck. Whispers:

Rudy studies his map, then quickly pencils in the "Security

Video Room," in a totally different place than he drew it

before. Hands the paper to her.

Ashley takes the map, frowns. Rudy kisses her gently.

She searches his eyes, not quite understanding. But smiles.

Rudy smiles back, nods toward the door. Ashley slips out.

When she's gone, Rudy stands and turns to the window. Outside,

the Blazer with the "Ice Fishermen Do It All Year Long" bumper

sticker still sits parked.

Rudy reaches for his jeans pocket, and pulls out-one of the

game room darts, flecked with blood.

HE GIVES IT A SOLEMN STARE

INT. RUDYS ROOM - MOMENTS L&TER - NIGHT

Rudy lies on his back, under the bed frame, dart in hand. He

tears off the plastic feathering, to get at the cross-shaped

end, furthest-from the tip. Four protruding metal edges.

He finds the Phillips screws on the bedframe, and tries to

work the dart-end into the grooves. It scrapes and jags, but

with pressure he's able to do a quarter-turn at a time.

The screw starts spiraling out.

ANGLE ON BEDFRAME

As two metal pieces split apart, and Rudy wriggles his ankle

handcuff off the frame.

ANGLE ON CLOSET

As Rudy's hand grabs a paper-covered wire hanger and rips

the paper off, untwisting the wire.

ANGLE ON ROOM'S WINDOW

As Rudy slides it open, and climbs outside.

EXT. KNIGHTS INN PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Light snow falling. Rudy drops from the second floor window

into some snowy shrubs and an empty parking space. He

stealthily darts ahead to the ice fishermen's Blazer.

AT THE FISHERMEN'S BLAZER

Rudy peers in the windows, spotting fishing rods, tackle and

gear boxes in the back seat.

He takes his wire coat hanger, now stretched straight, and

slips it between the driver's window and moulding, jamming

it around until it trips the door lock.

The lock pops up; Rudy pops in --

INT. BLAZER

-- and raids the gear box. Bait, reels, fishing wire. Boning

knives. A compass. A first aid kit. A switchblade.

He rustles around in the backseat. Ice cooler, open bag of

pork rinds, another gear box. Nothing.

Some HEADLIGHTS sweep past the Blazer. Rudy ducks down,

pockets the switchblade. Munches some pork rinds.

EXT. PARKING LOT

Rudy scrambles out, heads to try another car, a pickup truck.

And then suddenly drops to the ground, seeing

MERLIN AND JUMPY

stride outside, talking casually, kicking snow on their way

toward the Nova. Voices too low to hear.

ON SCENE

Rudy crouches behind the pickup, slips around the other side.

Merlin and Jumpy walk right by him.

Rudy criss-crosses through the parking lot, hidden by cars,

heading away from his room's window. His window. Rudy glances

back to see if the truckers notice that, but they don't seem

to. They stand at the Nova, talking.

Rudy shivers, waiting. They're not leaving. When their backs

turn, Rudy dashes twenty feet to the cover of the building.

He slips around the corner, out of sight.

AROUND THE SIDE OF THE HOTEL

Rudy hops through snowdrifts, pressed to the wall, moving

toward a side entry --

-- when he stops, hearing a woman's LAUGHTER.

Above his head are a row of windows. Reflections of rippling

water on the ceiling inside. It's the hotel pool behind this

wall.

Sounds of SPLASHES. Murmured VOICES.

Rudy stands absolutely still. His breaths stop frosting.

Because his breathing has stopped.

INT. HALLLWAY TO INDOOR POOL - NIGHT

Rudy creeps down the darkened hall, past a sign that reads

"Pool CLOSED. Open 9 am to 9 pm, No Lifeguard on Duty."

Rudy steps closer, back to a wall, standing in shadow. The

small pool becomes visible, flickering blue water. From an

unseen end, a figure splashes backwards into view --

It's Ashley. Hair wet, naked beneath the surface. Smiling

and splashing someone offscreen --

She splashes again. Taunting --

As Gabriel steps into view, also undressed, moving toward

her in the pool.

Gabriel reaches her, puts his arms around her. She smiles.

And they kiss, entwining together, reflections and ripples.

A steamy embrace.

ANGLE ON RUDY

in the shadows, hearing them. Staring into darkness.

IN THE POOL

Gabriel turns with Ashley, wrapped together. Moving slow.

They kiss again. Gabriel strokes her wet hair:

ON RUDY

still in the shadows, welling with betrayal.

BACK IN THE POOL

Gabriel and Ashley rock slowly, coupled, in the water.

And as their words turn to moans and murmurs...

IN THE SHADOWS

Rudy is gone.

INT. FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

Rudy strides a corridor, eyes dead ahead, passing a stairwell

on his way toward the "Exit" sign posted above a door. He's

almost there, marching fast --

AS THE EXIT DOOR OPENS

-- and Rudy dives to the stairwell, out of sight just as

Merlin and Jumpy stride back inside.

They separate, Jumpy down the hall, Merlin to the stairs --

INT. STAIRWELL

Merlin trudges upward, while Rudy steps from hiding one flight

down.

Checks the hall for Jumpy, then races out --

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Rudy slams out the side door, scrambling straight for the

same Blazer. He jimmies the lock again, leaps in, tears free

the engine panel and searches for ignition wires like a pro.

Stripping the plastic, trying to spark contact --

But there's nothing. The engine won't start.

INT. STAIRWELL

Merlin reaches the second floor, steps into the hall.

EXT. PARKING LOT

Rudy jumps from the Blazer, looks at the lot, the highway,

the woods. His own footprints in the dusting snow.

Realizing the answer, Rudy looks to his room's window. Forced

to race back. He tries clambering the wall, standing an

shrubbery, but he can't reach. He whirls, desperate.

And his eyes find the Blazer.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL

Merlin ambles the corridor. Approaching Rudy's room.

EXT. PARKING LOT

Rudy flings open the Blazer door, slams the emergency brake

down. Forces the gearshift into "Reverse."

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL

Merlin reaches Rudy's door. Searches his pockets for the

key.

EXT. PARKING LOT

Rudy darts to the front of the Blazer, slipping and sliding

on asphalt ice. He drops to his knees, pushing on the front

bumper.

The wheels start to move.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL

Merlin finds a room key. Puts it in the lock. Turns the handle

but the door won't open. Merlin checks the key.

EXT. PARKING LOT

The Blazer starts to roll backwards, toward the snowy shrubs

ringing the building. Headed for the empty parking space

below Rudy's window. Rudy keeps pushing. The Blazer picks up

speed, rolling on its own.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL

Merlin searches his pockets again, finds the right key.

EXT. PARKING LOT

The Blazer rolls toward the building. Rudy scrambles to his

feet, runs after it, leaps his left foot onto the bumper,

the right foot onto the hood, then onto the roof --

-- getting two roof-steps worth of running start --

-- as the Blazer slows to a rest against the snowy shrubs --

-- and Rudy dives into the air, torpedoing himself right

through the window to his room --

INT. RUDY'S ROOM

-- where he crashes headlong to the floor, turning a

somersault and landing sprawled across the carpet.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL

The key in the lock, Merlin hears the crash --

INT. RUDY'S ROOM

-- and as Merlin opens the door, he finds Rudy sitting calmly

on the floor, ankle-cuff locked once again to the bedframe.

Spreading a deck of cards out before him.

Starting a game of solitaire. He looks up.

Merlin frowns, takes a suspicious look around the room. The

window's open. Rudy continues his card game.

Merlin watches him for a long time. Then pulls the door shut.

Once he's gone, Rudy collapses to the floor. Breathing hard,

heart pounding. The cards go flying.

INT. RUDY'S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The LIGHTS go out. Rudy creeps back to the window, checks

outside... and stops still. In parking lot...

...a cigarette glow burns inside the Nova. From the driver's

seat. It's Merlin. Now watching.

Rudy steps back into the shadows. Closing window and watches

the falling snow. Caged again, after all.

INT. RUDY'S ROOM - NIGHT - LATER

Pitch dark. Rudy asleep on the floor, as Ashley creeps back

in.

Seeing he's asleep, she lies beside him, pulls a blanket

over them both, nestles into his body and kisses him.

Ashley closes her eyes. With a smile.

A moment later, Rudy's eyes open. Turning to look at her

smiling, sleeping face... with a convict's vengeful stare...

INT. KNIGHTS INN LOBBY - DAY

CLOSE ON DESK CLERK

In a elfin cap, smiling cheerfully:

CLOSE ON GABRIEL, MERLIN AND PUG

Three grim faces.

EXT. KNIGHTS INN PARKING LOT - DAY

The three truckers stride to the Nova, where Jumpy guards

Rudy and Ashley. In the b.g., the Ice Fishermen are by their

car, wondering how the hell it switched parking spaces

overnight.

Gabriel marches straight to Rudy and SLUGS him in the gut.

Rudy hits the snow --

Gabriel KICKS him again, then pulls a handgun, points it at

Rudy's head. Ashley screams, rushes him --

-- as Gabriel's gun SHOOTS a thin stream of water into Rudy's

face.

It's a forty-five caliber squirt gun.

Gabriel tosses the water pistol onto Rudy's chest. Jumpy and

Pug haul him up. With venom:

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The Motor City Monster cruises the snowy landscape, with

Lake Superior beyond. Pug drives the Nova in convoy.

INT. GABRIEL'S RIG

Gabriel hands copies of Rudy's sketched map to Merlin and

Jumpy.

Rudy and Ashley are in the sleeper.

Rudy watches them studying his made-up map. Ashley strokes

his arm, gives a loving smile. Rudy stares at her.

He smiles right back.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The rig and the Nova blow by a roadsign: "Now Entering

Powahachee Indian Reservation Lands."

INT./EXT. TRAILER DAY - PREPARATION MONTAGE

The storage locker with the Santa suits SLAMS open.

Merlin's hands PULL automatics and shotguns from the weapons

chest. Pug's hands UNLOAD ammo.

A red-and-white Santa coat gets PULLED ON and BUTTONED UP.

Jumpy's hands apportion GUNS and AMMO on a picnic table.

Black Santa boots STAMP TIGHT in the snow.

A shoulder-strap ASSAULT RIFLE gets hidden under a Santa

coat.

AMMO CLIPS are taped inside a fat black buckle-belt.

A HANDGUN gets tucked under a Santa hat.

And the rig's trailer doors come CRASHING SHUT.

EXT. LAKESIDE REST AREA - DUSK

Lake Superior shimmers in the dying light. The rig's in the

empty rest area lot. On a nearby bank, four men in Santa

Claus suits and one woman without sit scattered at picnic

tables, guns at their sides. Staring out at the lake.

RUDY AND ASHLEY

sit apart from the rest. Rudy in a red suit, black boots,

cap in hand. Ashley's head is in his lap, watching the sky.

The Nova drives into the lot. Pug gets out, carrying several

fast-food bags. Hurrying to stay warm:

As they continue chow dispersal, Rudy stares over the lake.

Distant. Not even aware Ashley's there.

Rudy smiles to himself. He's got a faraway look.

GABRIEL

sits by the water, staring over the lake too. With a white

cotton Santa beard resting on his chin. He unwraps his roast

beef sandwich, pulls his beard down to his neck, and takes a

savage bite.

Munches away, stares to Rudy and Ashley. She meets his eyes.

Gabriel smiles. And looks again to the water.

ON FULL SCENE

The snowy rest stop, the glistening lake. And the six figures

scattered, watching day turn to night...

EXT. TOMAHAWK CASINO - NIGHT

The neon axe lit up in full regalia, with Christmas lights

now strung along the building's roof. There are fewer than a

dozen cars in the parking lot.

INT. TOMAHAWK - NIGHT

Filled with the JINGLING, JANGLING slots, but there's only

two FAT WOMEN sitting at them. Three INDIANS at a poker table.

An OLD TIMER in his 90's playing blackjack.

INT. SECURITY LEVEL

A ragged headquarters, looking down to the casino level

through smoked glass. Desks, file cabinets, pin-up

centerfolds. A room with video monitors to one side. Stairs

to a camera catwalk that rings the casino.

Jack Bangs is at a table of wassail and cookies. He opens a

battle of brandy, pours a bit into the punch, and takes the

bottle for himself. Walks over to his HEAD OF SECURITY,

watching the lack of activity below:

The boss smiles, heads off. Jack Bangs swigs his brandy,

eyes his high-tech security gear glumly:

EXT. TOMAHAWK - NIGHT

The Nova pulls into the lot and parks. Merlin, Pug and Ashley

inside. On the road, the Motor City Monster slows to an idling

stop. In the cab, Gabriel turns to Rudy and Jumpy:

Rudy gives Gabriel a withering look. He and Jumpy climb out.

Gabriel's rig rumbles up the road.

[NOTE: All five men, save Ashley, from now till story's end,

are in their Santa Claus suits.]

RUDY AND JUMPY

make their way across the lot, heading for the entrance.

The Native American considers. As they walk:

-- as they hit the Tomahawk's doors --

INT. TOKAHAWK - NIGHT

-- and SLAM inside, stumbling into each other, suddenly

LAUGHING and slapping backs. Surveying the casino:

Rudy spreads his Santa arms wide and whoops. Jumpy laughs

with him, steadying his balance. Drunken and slurred:

The few gamblers inside look up at the commotion. Bear the

Bartender. Two CASHIERS and one WAITRESS. Ed the Security

Boss strides over, smiling tightly:

Rudy grabs a wad of bills from his pocket, drops some to the

floor. Jumpy retrieves them --

A Waitress sidles close; checks with the Boss. He nods okay.

The Security Boss stares him down. Then:

He steps aside and indicates the tables. Jumpy claps him on

the back, pushes Rudy on through the slots.

EXT. RESERVATION ROAD - NIGHT

Gabriel's truck at the roadside, hazards on, with signal

triangles as if broken down. Gabriel places the last one,

hurries back down the casino road.

EXT. PARKING LOT/INT. NOVA - NIGHT

Ashley sits between Merlin and Pug. Gabriel jogs by the car.

Ashley checks her watch:

INT. TOMAHAWK - NIGHT

Rudy and Jumpy sit at a blackjack table, beside the Old Timer.

Jovial ad libs as the Waitress brings Rudy's beer. Rudy

doubles down, busts, and gets belligerent:

Behind them, Gabriel SLAMS through the casino doors.

Gabriel sidles to the table, claps Rudy on the back.

They throw chips in. The Waitress circles around:

The Old Timer hits and stays. Rudy hits and busts:

EXT. PARKING LOT

Ashley's eyes on her watch. Nods to Merlin and Pug:

INT. TOMAHAWK

Jumpy has left the table, sidling to a change booth, glancing

at his watch. Passes a $100 bill:

AT THE BLACKJACK

Gabriel slides off his stool, punches Rudy in the shoulder:

Rudy nods, slugging beer. He's becoming an unruly drinker.

The Old Timer motions to hit; but before the Dealer can pull

the card, Rudy slams the table, points to it:

The dealer hits grandpa to twenty-one. Then hits Rudy and

busts him. Rudy stares darkly.

IN THE HALL TO THE BATHROOMS

Gabriel walks to the men's room door. Then stops. Adjusts

the rifle under his red coat. And turns back.

AT THE CHANGE BOOTH

Jumpy is handed a bucket of quarters.

EXT. PARKING LOT - SAME

Merlin and Pug march toward the entrance, hands in pockets.

INT. SECURITY LEVEL

The Security Boss returns upstairs, beside Jack Bangs, who's

watching the video monitors. On one screen, a parking lot

cam shows Merlin and Pug approaching:

He drunkenly clinks his battle to the Security Boss, wassail.

The Boss frowns.

INT. TOMAHAWK - ON BLACKJACK

Rudy bolts up suddenly, sends chips and his chair to the

carpet.

Points sternly at the Old Timer, slurring:

Rudy grabs the blackjack table and wrenches with all his

might,

OVERTURNING IT, cards, chips, cash scattering --

AND EVERYTHING HAPPENS AT ONCE

Two SECURITY GUARDS at the door (?) rush for Rudy --

Gabriel steps from the restroom, hall, moves toward the keypad

door to the security level --

Jumpy carries his bucket of quarters past the cage --

Rudy tackles the Old Timer, fists and false teeth flying, as

the Guards arrive, trying to wrench him off the poor guy --

As Gabriel stops just beyond the keypad door --

IN THE SECURITY LEVEL

The Security Boss grabs more men, while Jack Bangs merely

smiles at the sight. Guards wrestling a drunken Santa:

IN THE CASINO

Three guards CHARGE out of the keypad door --

-- right past Gabriel, who slips deftly inside --

AND UP THE PRIVATE STAIRCASE

-- opening his coat, pulling his assault rifle --

GABRIEL

Right at the top of the stairs, right at the top of the

stairs...

-- charging to the top, starting right and running SMACK

into a wall.

He spins, sees the doorway's on his left --

TO A PRIVATE HALLWAY

with three doors. Gabriel stops at the first, grips his gun --

-- and swings open a closet bathroom. He frowns, confused.

Jumps to the second door --

-- and swings open a storage closet. Gabriel grumbles, leaps

to the third door and flings it open,

TO REVEAL THE MAIN SECURITY AREA

-- with two Guards sitting at their posts, and Jack Bangs,

the Security Boss and the Video Guard in the doorway to the

video room. Which is on the far opposite side of the space.

As they turn to see the furious Santa Claus with the AK-47 --

-- as he SPRAYS the ceiling with GUNFIRE.

INT. CASINO FLOOR

Where the RIFLE sounds, just as Jumpy grips his bucket of

quarters at the cashier's cage and wheels --

-- throwing a fragmentation grenade's worth of quarters at

the two Cashiers! Bits Of metal flying between the bars.

They SCREAM, stepping backwards in defense --

-- and Jumpy whips a sawed-off shotgun from his coat --

AT THE BLACKJACK

The five guards wrestling Rudy spin and scramble, pulling

pistols from shoulder holsters as --

MERLIN

CHARGES through the casino entrance, shotgun held --

But the guards don't. Whirling on Merlin --

-- who OPENS FIRE, BLASTING two of the guards off their feet.

Rudy stays on the ground, covering his head, holding the

petrified Old Timer down --

-- as the other three guards FIRE back, forcing Merlin to

race behind the slots. BULLETS rip into slot machines --

-- as GUNSHOTS ring out from the casino restaurant. Two of

the Guards spin to look behind them as --

-- PUG storms in, contorted glee, twin pistols BLAZING,

popping a steel flurry into an outgunned Guard.

Merlin spins from hiding behind the slots. He and Pug both

OPEN FIRE, blowing away the two remaining men from both sides.

One of the guards falls in front of Rudy, gun in hand --

-- but as Rudy-reaches for the guy's pistol --

Merlin steps to him, gun aimed. He and Pug collect the Guards,

weapons.

Rudy gets to his feet, pulls the water pistol from his pocket.

Moves to round up the Old Timer, the waitress, the Poker

Players and the Fat Slots Women.

INT. SECURITY LEVEL

The two Guards lie on the floor, with Security Boss and Video

Guard. And the ruined Jack Bangs.

Gabriel storms to the video room's doorway. Slams a new clip.

He OPENS FIRE, BLOWING AWAY the wall of monitors and VCR's

recording the robbery. SPARKS and METAL fly.

EXT. PARKING LOT

Ashley waits in the Nova, checking her watch. Behind her a

RED WRANGLER rolls in and parks. A FIRE CHIEF and his DEPUTY,

just off-duty, stroll toward the casino, laughing.

Ashley sinks low, panicked. Presses her HORN. The firemen

spin around but don't see her. They shrug. Keep walking.

INT. TOMAHAWK

Rudy forces the gamblers and employees behind the bar. Onto

the floor with Bear the Bartender, whispering hard:

The hostages do as told. Rudy breathes relief, squirt gun in

hand. And then stares at the array of bottles around him.

IN THE CASHIER'S CAGE

Merlin and Pug force the cashiers to the floor:

Pug bangs the guy's head off the floor, stalks to the Count

Room door. Just a key lock. Pug BLOWS it away with his guns,

kicks the door open --

-- and gets SHOT TO HELL by three COUNT MEN inside, pistols

blazing! Pug puppets, dead. A wad of chaw hits the ceiling.

Stunned Merlin FIRES BACK.

EXT. PARKING LOT

-- as the Firemen hear the GUNFIRE, pulling holstered pistols --

INT. TOMAHAWK

-- while Merlin dives out of the cage, joining Jumpy, taking

cover as the Count Men FIRE AWAY --

-- as Rudy scrambles back from the bar --

Merlin and Jumpy leap up, GUNS BLAZING, firing through the

cage bars at the Count Men. Killing all three just as --

THE OFF-DUTY FIREMEN

storm through the doors, pistols ready --

Merlin and Jumpy are caught. Trade a look. And let their

weapons fall, turning just as --

THE CHEVY NOVA

CRASHES through the casino doors, MOWING DOWN the firemen!

The car SLAMS inside, crashing into slot machines. The slots

send SPARKS showering into the air. Which set off the casino

floor's SPRINKLERS. The room fills with watery spray.

Ashley swiftly climbs out of the mangled vehicle. Rudy stares

darkly at her. She knows he knows. And she doesn't care.

She storms on by. The slots pay off behind her.

INT. COUNT ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Jumpy, Merlin, Ashley and Rudy step inside the Count Room.

There are stacks and stacks of bills.

Ashley smiles wide, throws Jumpy three laundry sacks.

Merlin, meanwhile, slams Rudy against the wall:

As Merlin puts a gun to Rudyls head --

Merlin stares daggers at Rudy. Shoves the gun away.

INT. JACK BANGS' OFFICE - NIGHT

Gabriel stands at the windows overlooking the watery carnage.

The taped jingle of slots still plays.

Poor Jack Bangs lies on his desk, beaten to a pulp. Blood

runs down his face and shark suit. Tears and shock:

Merlin and Jumpy lead Rudy in. Ashley follows. They carry

bulging money sacks. Gabriel stares Rudy down.

He kisses her hard. Sloppy. Grins.

Then points to Jack Bangs:

Gabriel hammers him with the butt of his rifle. CRACK.

Gabriel CRACKS him again. And again. Rudy winces. Gabriel

grabs Rudy, pulls him over.

Gabriel pushes Rudy's head toward the desk. Jack Bangs,

drooling blood, eyes swollen, turns his face to see.

Jack Bangs stares at Rudy. Rudy stares back.

The smile fades from Gabriel's face.

Gabriel grabs Rudy, slams him against a wall. He glares at

Ashley for answers. She stares in disbelief.

Rudy meets her eyes.

BACK TO GABRIEL:

Ashley's putting it all together...

Ashley CHARGES him. Gabriel stops her; Merlin and Jumpy help

hold her back. Gabriel spins on Rudy with his rifle:

Gabriel hesitates. Doesn't fire.

Rudy steels himself for the shot. It still doesn't come.

Jack Bangs dully meets Rudy's eyes.

Gabriel steps to the liquor cabinet, feels at the shelves.

They split in the middle. And there is a combination safe

mounted in the back. Gabriel turns to Jack Bangs:

He pulls him off the desk. Jack Bangs wavers, struggling. He

looks at Gabriel. Then at Rudy.

Jack Bangs steps to the safe. Spins the lock. Spins back.

Spins forward. Click. Jack Bangs looks at Rudy.

And Jack Bangs opens it --

-- reaching inside in the same swift motion, so that as the

safe swings open to reveal it's a rack of WEAPONS that lies

inside, Jack Bangs already has an Uzi in hand --

BULLETS as he turns back to the room --

-- sending Gabriel, Ashley, and Merlin diving for the floor!

Jumpy can't get down, as BULLETS riddle him dead --

-- and BLOW OUT the smoked windows overlooking the casino --

Jack Bangs keeps turning in a madman's circle --

-- BLOWING OUT the windows to the parking lot, shattering

the liquor, sending Rudy scrambling under his desk --

He and Ashley both scramble for the windows, jumping out

with two of the money sacks --

TO THE CASINO FLOOR

-- and landing on poker tables below, overturning them --

Jack Bangs keeps FIRING, into the casino, SHREDDING the tables

but missing Gabriel and Ashley -- as he JUMPS right after

them.

BACK IN BANGS' OFFICE

Merlin scrambles to his feet, whirling with his gun, looking

for Rudy --

-- just as Rudy slams into him. Merlin's SHOT hits the

ceiling.

The two of them CRASH down, wrestling and rolling toward the

parking lot window. Two guns spill to the floor. Rudy grabs

one, just as Merlin kicks out, leaping up --

-- and freezes, seeing Rudy's got a pistol on him.

Before Merlin can make a move, Rudy fires --

-- and a thin stream of water shoots out. Leaving a stain on

his shirt. It's the water pistol. Rudy stares blankly.

As Merlin swiftly snatches the second gun, a real gun, off

the floor. Rudy's dead to rights.

With the gun on Rudy, Merlin finds a cigarette in his pockets.

Pops it between his lips, raises a lighter's flame --

-- and hesitates. Sniffing the air. Looking down.

At the stain on his shirt. His lighter still lit --

-- and Rudy fires the water pistol again, this time catching

Merlin's lighter, which turns the stream into a ARC OF FIRE!

He's filled alcohol in the gun!

FLAMING LIQUOR shoots into Merlin's face and eyes. He drops

the handgun. Rudy keeps squeezing the squirt gun, spreading

the fire down his neck and chest. Merlin howls wildly --

-- and staggers back, blind and helpless, pinwheeling himself --

OUT THE PARKING LOT WINDOW

-- and CRASHING down on the hood of a Pontiac, head through

the windshield, boots on the bumper, dead. Flames flickering.

IN THE CASINO

Gabriel and Ashley have scrambled to the Nova, tumbling in

with the money sacks. Jack Bangs gets up, stalking toward

them, still FIRING and babbling.

Gabriel FIRES back, hitting Bangs in the chest. He staggers,

but stays upright. His bullets RIDDLE the car, shattering

the windshield, but Gabriel and Ashley keep their heads down,

slamming it into reverse --

-- and burning rubber backwards out the casino entrance,

into the parking lot, and speeding out of sight.

Jack Bangs stops shooting.

He staggers back toward the bar, totters there, and turns,

gun still raised.

Rudy stands at the base of the stairs to the security level.

He puts his hands up, until he sees the dying look in Bangs,

face. The uzi drops to the ground.

A silence. Even the slots have stopped.

Jack Bangs stares blankly. Surveys the wreckage of his poor

man's empire. And gives a small shrug.

He slumps against the bar and hits the floor. Dead.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Rudy ambles out into the snowy night. The lot is quiet. He

takes a few wary steps toward the road --

-- and hears a CLICK. He turns to see Ashley standing behind

him, with a gun. Shaking her pretty head.

Rudy shuts his eyes for the end.

EXT. RESERVATION ROAD - NIGHT

The Nova drives up a ramp into the back of the truck, in

reverse. Gabriel gets out, pulls shut the trailer. Ashley

collects the hazard triangles. They hurry to the cab.

EXT. MICHIGAN HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The Motor City monster storms through the night, passing a

couple POLICE CARS, sirens wailing, speeding the other way.

INT. GABRIEL'S RIG

Gabriel and Ashley inside, with the money sacks:

He grabs Ashley, kisses her wildly. Then turns back --

TO THE SLEEPER COMPARTMENT

Where Rudy lies sideways, hands bound with his Santa belt.

EXT. RIDGESIDE ROAD - NIGHT

A winding two-lane road, overlooking a small ravine at a

grassy overlook. The road is dusted with snow; there's been

no traffic here for awhile.

The Motor City Monster steams to a stop beyond the overlook.

Then starts backing up, such that the gate of the trailer is

fifteen feet from the edge of the ridge.

A hundred-foot drop into the ravine below.

Gabriel and Ashley pile out of the cab. They lift the trailer

gate, extend the tire ramps. The ramps run from the trailer

to five feet away from, the ravine drop.

IN THE CAB

Gabriel pulls Rudy out of the sleeper. Marches him back --

TO THE RAVINE'S EDGE

-- and gives him a look. Forces him to his knees. Ashley is

in the truck trailer, splashing the inside of the Nova with

a can of gasoline.

Rudy glances to the trailer. Ashley tosses a couple handfuls

of bills into the car.

Gabriel smiles at him.

Ashley hops down. Gabriel puts an arm around her.

Rudy eyes Ashley. She stares darkly back.

So cold. But Rudy doesn't pause.

Ashley shivers, a touch shaken. But steels herself:

Gabriel hauls him up. Marches him to the trailer. Rudy stops

at the ramp. Gabriel pushes. Rudy doesn't move.

He turns back to Ashley.

Rudy looks at Gabriel. He's frowning. To Ashley:

He stares her down. Then stares at Gabriel.

Ashley stares daggers. Shakes her head ruefully --

-- and pulls a handgun, SHOOTING Gabriel in the heart.

Gabriel falls to his knees in the snow, his mouth a ring of

shock. Blood spurts through his red coat. He stares at Ashley,

incredulous.

She steps forward and PUTS another bullet in his neck. Gabriel

falls still.

Ashley's breath frosts in the cold.

Rudy watches her. Finally, she meets Rudy's eyes. They stare

each other down for a long moment, before:

A silence.

No one moves.

And finally, the CRUNCH of footsteps from around the side of

the trailer. And WHISTLING. "Silver Bells."

A shadow moves across the snow behind the trailer, and soon

steps into Rudy and Ashley's view.

It's Nick Mason.

Alive and well.

Ashley smiles. Her muscles-and-mustache man pen pal is here.

They share a passionate kiss. Ashley malts at the sight of

him, embracing happily. Then turns to Rudy:

Rudy just stands there, his mind playing catch-up.

Rudy doesn't notice it's started to snow.

Nick shrugs. Prods Rudy up the ramp. Into the trailer:

Nick looks back at Ashley.

Nick forces Rudy inside, unties the belt from his wrists and

lashes them to the bottom of the steering wheel.

Nick gets Rudy's wrists locked to the wheel. He laughs.

Nick slams the car door, locking Rudy in.

Nick reaches across him, releases the brake. Puts the car

into "Drive." Turns to Ashley:

Ashley steps toward the ramp, taking out a matchbook. Nick

steps further into the trailer, to the back of the Nova.

IN THE CAR

Rudy immediately wriggles his hands, trying to touch his

wrists together. Trying to press together the white cuffs of

his Santa suit. Trying to get the right pressure point --

-- as a BLADE suddenly springs out of the cuff! The

switchblade he'd stolen from the Blazer -- it's lashed to

his right wrist!

Rudy starts sawing his wrist back and forth, cutting through

the Santa belt --

-- his hands at the bottom of the wheel, too low for either

Ashley or Nick to see --

IN THE TRAILER

Ashley is at the hood of the car, LIGHTING her match. Nick

is at the back bumper, ready to push it down the ramp --

IN THE CAR

The belt breaks! Rudy snaps his hands free! But instead of

trying to escape, he reaches under the steering column,

RIPPING its panel away and pulling wires free!

As Ashley tosses her match onto the hood, and FIRE races

over the body of the car, TONGUES racing inside, over the

dash, over the seats, lapping at Rudy --

-- who ducks his head beneath the wheel, frantic to locate

the right leads --

IN THE TRAILER

Ashley jumps out of the way, to the snow. Nick pushes the

flaming car to the trailer's edge --

-- starting on down the ramp, the ravine ahead --

-- and as gravity starts to take the metal bonfire --

IN THE CAR

Rudy sparks two wires together, FLAMES eating at him --

-- and the ENGINE IGNITES!

Rudy slams the gearshift into "Reverse", grabs the wheel and

looks over his shoulder at shocked Nick behind him --

-- and SLAMS the accelerator.

ON FULL SCENE

As the burning Nova races backwards up the ramp, and back

into the trailer --

Terrified Nick turns to run but there's nowhere to go --

-- and the car SLAMS into the trailer's back, CRUSHING Nick's

legs between metal and metal!

Then Rudy faces front, pounds the shift into "Drive."

Ashley stands at the bottom of the ramp, vengeance and rage.

She grabs her handgun, OPENS FIRE --

-- and Rudy SLAMS the gas again, shooting down the ramp --

-- as he flings open the car door, dives and rolls --

-- while the burning Nova COLLIDES with Ashley, throwing her

onto the hood, and sending the tandem inferno speeding off

the ridgetop --

-- arcing slowly as it PLUMMETS into the ravine, a smoking,

blazing shooting star with a woman's figure hanging on.

The shooting star hits Earth and explodes.

INT. CASINO/EXT. SNOWY ROAD - MONTAGE

The same four shots that opened the film. The Santa on the

floor of the cage (Pug), the Santa on the hood of the car

(Merlin), the Santa in the hallway (Jumpy).

And the Santa lying face-down on the snowy road. Gabriel.

EXT. RAVINE'S EDGE - SAME

The last of the opening images. Rudy's motionless Santa

figure, upside-down on the snowy incline, bits of his suit

still aflame. He opens his eyes.

ANGLE ON SNOWY ROAD

Rudy staggers to his feet. Battered and dazed. Looks at

Gabriel's body. Then looks to the trailer.

Inside, Nick is still alive, bones broken from the waist

down.

He's mumbling madly, staring at the ceiling:

Rudy climbs the tire ramp. And pulls the trailer gate shut.

He climbs into the rig's cab. Starts the engine. Puts the

truck in reverse, taps the accelerator and hops out.

The truck rolls backwards. And into the ravine.

Rudy listens to its TUMBLING SOUNDS all the way to the bottom.

He then looks up the road one way. Then the other.

And notices the two money sacks sitting in the snow.

He stares at them.

A long time.

EXT. RUDY'S JOURNEY - MONTAGE - NIGHT/DAY

In his burnt and battered Santa suit, Rudy's figure trudges

the snowy night. Two sacks over his shoulder. walking empty

roads and highways. And passing a roadsign that reads "Sidnaw --

35 Miles."

He passes rural roads and driveways, and every time he comes

across a mailbox... he puts a stack of cash inside. On the

soundtrack, the STRINGS and RUM-PUM-PUM-PUMS of "The Little

Drummer Boy" start to rise --

With snow falling, he passes a new sign: "Sidnaw -- 27 Miles."

With the sun rising, a PAIR OF CHILDREN huddle at a window,

seeing the man in the Santa suit at the end of their driveway.

Giving them something from his sack and ambling on.

-- and we follow Rudy's march, stuffing presents into

mailboxes. At every-stop on the way.

EXT. A SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

A cul-de-sac of Norman Rockwell Michigan homes. Graced with

pines and a pristine snowfall. Christmas trees in windows,

lights on inside, figures of FAMILIES in holiday gear.

No one noticing the man in the Santa suit, his sacks long

gone, walking up the road.

EXT./INT. FIFTIES-ERA HOME - DAY

At cul-de-sac's end. Where a blackened red cuff KNOCKS.

After a moment, the door opens to reveal a smiling MOTHER

and FATHER in their sixties. There's a party going on inside;

a dining table visible beyond them.

The Mother and Father's smiles disappear. Shock. Concern.

The Santa Claus shuffles inside, right past them.

The Santa Claus sleepwalks straight for the dining room,

finding a dozen RELATIVES, laughing and eating. A table laden

with turkey and stuffing, gravy and cranberry, wassail and

wine.

The relatives stop still. The room goes silent.

The Santa Claus sits down at the head of the table.

Yes, it's Rudy.

Without a word, he stares at the food before him. And takes

a plate. He stacks it with meat and dressing and trimmings,

and sets it in front of him.

And digs in. Stuffing his face in silence.

His Mother and Father return to the dining room, gaping. The

other relatives look likewise.

All staring at Rudy.

Then, while he eats, without another sound...

...the Mother takes her seat at the table...

...and the Father pulls up another chair.

They touch hands privately, and turn back to their plates.

There's a CLANK of silverware, a SCRAPE of china, a CLINK of

glass, and one-by-one, the relatives resume their meals.

CONVERSATION picks up where it left off, SMILES return to

the table, LAUGHTER slowly rises in the room.

There is Mr. Duncan and Mrs. Duncan, Aunt Lisbeth and Uncle

Ray, Aunt Mary and Uncle Pete, toddler Sasha and teenage

Sam, brother Mike and his girlfriend Jill, sister Stacy and

her husband Bill, Grandpa Walter, little Wendy Sue...

...and at the head of the table...

Rudy Duncan.

Home for Christmas.

CUT TO BLACK.

