Trilogy Entertainment Group

in association with:                    July 10, 1990

WARNER BROS. INC.                        1990

4000 Warner Boulevard                   WARNER BROS. INC.

Burbank, California 91522               All Rights Reserved

FADE IN:

SUNSET

The glowing orb ripples like a blood-red eye.

BLACK, ROBED FIGURE

A face of the ages. Dark, wrinkled skin. Wizened,

almond eyes. He howls at the sun. His voice ECHOES

across the sky. The Moslem call to prayer.

Hundreds of feet below his tower, a mud-walled city of

minarets and mosques. A human ants' nest. Scurrying to

their devotions.

EXT. TWELFTH-CENTURY ARAB CITY - ESTABLISHING SHOT

INT. DUNGEONS - SUNSET

Pervasive blackness. Moans of men in pain. Dripping

water. Rats. Filth. The nadir of human degradation.

Bedraggled white men, POWs from the Crusades, caged

together with Arab cutthroats. Jailers wrench two

crusaders from their cell. ROBIN OF LOCKSLEY and PETER

DUBOIS. Their appearance reeks of long imprisonment, but

remnants of their noble heritage still glimmer in their

faces. Peter is so frail he can barely walk.

INT. TORTURE CHAMBER - SUNSET

A furnace. Torture instruments glow red hot. Chained

victims. A massive INTERROGATOR scrutinizes the two

white men. Indicates a rat-faced lowlife, who points at

Peter, jabbering in Arabic.

The lowlife jabbers some more.    The Interrogator debates.

The jailers haul Peter to the chopping block.

CONTINUED:

The Interrogator stares into Robin's eyes.

He indicates an Arab prisoner, who is dragged forward.

His struggling hand is laid on the executioner's block.

The prisoner's face braces for the pain. A red-hot

scimitar flashes down. The hand flips into a basket.

Twitching.

Robin is next. His composure fails. He flops to his

knees, crying. The Interrogator laughs. The jailers

unlash the thongs on Robin's hand. They stretch it out,

forcing it down. Robin goes limp, sobbing. Peter

catches his eye... Robin winks.

The scimitar. Drawn from the coals. Spitting flame.

Arcs down. Robin is suddenly galvanized.

He hurls his holders aside. Swings upward, driving his

fast into the executioner's throat. Grabs the sword.

Slash. His thongs melt like butter. A jailer leaps at

him. Steaming, the scimitar slices into the man's chest.

Despite his bindings, Peter wrestles the Interrogator.

Knife pressed to his throat, Peter is forced against the

furnace. At the last second, he flips the man into the

fire. Screaming.

CONTINUED:

A jailer aims a scalding blade at Robin's back.

Warned, Robin ducks away.    Slams the jailer's head into

the wall.

Peter frees himself, but they are still outnumbered.

While fighting, Robin acknowledges the man who shouted

the warning. An imposing, shaven-headed SARACEN.

Heavily-muscled arms and chest, covered in tattoos. Even

his bald head is ornamented.

Robin sidesteps, propelling a guard into a pit.

Two more guards attack, yelling fury.    Robin eyes the

curved scimitar.

A guard swings at him with a giant axe.    Robin slashes...

shears the axe handle in two.

He runs the man through. Peter loses his sword. His

opponent moves in for the kill... Peter grabs tongs from

the fire and smolders his opponent with a backhand.

Commotion outside.    RAISED VOICES and RUNNING FEET.

CONTINUED:

The door bursts open.    More guards rush in.

He slashes the man free.

He beckons them to the back.     A hidden door leads into a

tunnel.

INT. SEWERS - NIGHT

They wade through foul water up to their waists. The

Saracen leads... A snake lashes out for his face. Robin

lops off its head.

Guards drop down from above, carrying torches.    Blocking

the way.

A narrow opening to their left... they splash through.

Half running, half crawling in the dank water. Fire

arrows land around them. The orange smoke is choking.

CONTINUED:

Flames illuminate the walls, alive with a loathsome mass

of crawling slime. Peter falls. A pursuer descends on

him, thrusting a blazing torch at his face. The Saracen

intercepts the blow. Grabs the man's neck, SNAPPING it

with one mighty twist.

Gasping for air, they find the tunnel veers steeply down-

ward. A slippery, granite tube. Losing purchase, they

slide headlong. Sharp, rusted spikes jut out from the

walls ahead.

Robin grabs at the walls to break the fall. No use.

They're picking up speed. He turns his sword crossways,

bracing it against the sides of the tunnel, as a brake.

Sparks fly. The sword cuts into Robin's chest... but it

works.

A bloodcurdling scream. A pursuing guard tumbles down

the sewer chute. The three men press themselves against

the wall. The man hurtles by... is impaled on the

spikes.

A draft of fresh air from the roof of the tunnel. Using

the spiked guard as a ladder, Robin climbs. Removes a

grating.

EXT. ARAB STREET - NIGHT

Robin's head appears... ducks back down, as a squad of

mounted soldiers thunders right over him... he reappears.

All clear. They're outside the prison wall. Robin helps

Peter up.

CONTINUED:

Swoosh. An arrow pierces through Peter's chest -- fired

from the prison wall. He reels... Robin leads him under

the wall for protection. Shouts of alarm. Soldiers

approaching.

Raising his sword, Peter faces the oncoming soldiers.

Peter shakes him off.

Robin looks despairingly to the Saracen.

Robin knows it's true. Peter pulls an insignia ring from

a hidden pouch in his clothes. Thrusts it into Robin's

hand.

Summoning hidden resources of strength, Peter charges at

the oncoming soldiers, brandishing his sword.

He fells the first Arab.   The Saracen pulls Robin away.

They vanish into the night. Fighting like a man pos-

sessed, Peter is swallowed in a sea of enemy soldiers.

DESERTED ALLEY - LATER

Robin and the Saracen catch their breath.

He grins.    This strange man has a sense of humor.

He grins broadly.      Offers his hand.

Resigned, Robin takes the proferred hand.

EXT. LOCKSLEY CASTLE (NOTTINGHAMSHIRE, ENGLAND)

Eerie shapes. Weaving. White light on water. The moon

reflected in the moat of a small castle. Towers shrouded

in night mist. Smoke curls from a chimney.

SUPERIMPOSE:   LOCKSLEY CASTLE, NOTTINGHAMSHIRE, ENGLAND

INT. LOCKSLEY CASTLE - NIGHT

FIRE CRACKLES in an open hearth. Hams and a half sheep

hang, smoking. An old DOG SNORES at the fireside. A

bone clunks on the floor, waking him.

Licking the bone gratefully, the dog looks in the direc-

tion of the voice... Grey. Proud. Distinguished. LORD

LOCKSLEY.

Seated at a table, wine goblet in hand, he pores   over a

wonderful illustrated Bible. Reading to himself    for

solace and strength. Empty chairs surround the    vast

table. A deep sense of loneliness. He glances     at a

portrait over the fireplace... Robin.

The dog jumps. Hackles rise. O.S. SHOUTS. Locksley

unsheathes a dagger. Obscures it in the folds of the

Bible. The door bursts open. A peasant, ragged,

desperate, KENNETH.

He's bleeding from a face wound. Another man grabs him

from behind. Locksley's craggy-faced retainer, DUNCAN.

Older than his master, but still strong, he holds Kenneth

back.

The peasant falls to his knees.

CONTINUED:

EXT. LOCKSLEY CASTLE - NIGHT

Steam pours from the nostrils of a black charger. Lord

Locksley mounts, in armor. Duncan attempts to detain

him.

He kicks his horse into motion.

Duncan looks up.    Crosses himself.    Dark clouds race

across the moon.

EXT. WOODED TRAIL

Kenneth checks the ground.    Locksley waits.

CONTINUED:

Locksley reacts -- a hint of fear. They move on...

Ahead, the hillside glows, rimmed in eerie light.

Strange primitive CHANTS, wafted on the wind. Locksley

ties his nervous horse to a tree.

Parting undergrowth, Kenneth creeps forward. Cries out.

He's face to face with the maggot-eaten skull of a goat.

Beyond it, a gruesome host of half-skinned human skulls,

all arranged on stakes. Some male, others with rotting

female tresses, staring eyelessly into the night.

Kenneth turns to run... A hand grabs him.

From the crest of the rise, they peer down into the

craggy valley. A cave opening, ablaze with flames leers

at them like the mouth of hell. Before the cave, a

circle of stones. A miniature Stonehenge.

A medieval orgy. Men and women in masks and loose

robes. Dancing. Drinking. Reveling. Pure carnality.

Lord Locksley and Kenneth watch in horror. Faces ashen.

An unearthly SCREECH. A creature leaps into the circle

of stones. Grotesque gargoyle head, horns, fur-covered

arms and legs. A living Hieronymous Bosch DEMON. Its

clawed hands slash across a reveler's back, drawing

blood in vicious streaks. The creature tastes the blood.

The reveler is ecstatic.

He draws his sword. A crucifix sculpted into the hilt.

A girl is dragged from the cave. Kenneth buries his

head.

CONTINUED:

Kenneth nods.

The Demon shrieks, dervishing around GWEN, who  is

carried onto the central plinth stone. A pagan   altar,

the shape of an elephant's head with its trunk  raised. A

masked figure stands at the head of the altar.   The high

priest of the dark rite.

The girl's body shudders as blood-red liquid is forced

down her throat. The Demon's voice is husky and hideous.

Hypnotized by the creature's voice and snake-like move-

ments, Gwen stretches herself out. A single beam of

sunlight slices through the mist, like a laser. The

first light of the rising sun, it strikes directly on the

altar, tracking down towards the girl's heart. The

Demon's raised talons close in on the white flesh of her

neck. Gwen's eyes are open wide, in a trance. The crowd

of revelers encircle the plinth. Awed anticipation...

A warrior's yell!

Sword raised, Locksley THUNDERS in on his CHARGER. The

terrified crowd parts. The Demon screams like a banshee.

The followers throw themselves at   Locksley. He beats

them off. The high priest issues    orders to armed guards,

who run to intercept. One aims a    spear. Locksley hacks

the shaft in half. Cuts men down    left and right.

Reaches the altar stone.

Gwen shakes off her trance. The Demon launches itself at

Locksley. Talons rip flesh from his face. With all his

strength, Locksley hurls the creature down.

His broadsword swings in a mighty arc. Slices across the

gargoyle's skull. Clean through half the face...

Impossibly, the demon rolls back to its feet.

CONTINUED:

The head is an elaborate mask -- beneath are the yellow

skin, white hair, and burning red eyes of an albino

crone. Screaming vitriol, the hag is unharmed.

Momentarily stunned, Locksley regains his senses, hauls

the girl onto his charger. The guards close in.

Locksley spurs his horse. Rides for an opening.

The masked high priest stands resolutely in his path.

Brandishing a burning branch. The horse is freaked.

Rears. Locksley and the girl are thrown.

Unarmed, Locksley charges the man. Slams him into the

cave wall. The mask falls. Locksley gasps in

recognition.

The SHERIFF OF NOTTINGHAM. Powerful build, black beard,

cruel intensity in every feature.

Locksley is surrounded. One by one the men reveal their

faces. Locksley backs up in shock, recognizing them.

The crone spits venom in his face.

Locksley's agonized cry fills the valley. On the hill-

side, Kenneth averts his eyes. Turns to run. Five

masked figures block his way.

EXT. ENGLISH SHORE - DAY

A twelfth century French sailboat at anchor.    A cross on

its sail.

A longboat rows to shore. Robin stands in the prow, in

a pilgrim's hooded robe. He gazes at the approaching

land. Unable to wait, he leaps into the surf and wades

to the beach. He kneels, pressing his hands and face

into the soil.

Aslan steps from the boat, sniffing the air. The French

sailors keep their distance from him. Robin takes his

hand.

A sailor creeps up behind Aslan, club in hand.

He nods to the sailor, who swings the club down. The

Saracen sidesteps, grabs the man's arm and flips him

into the surf. He turns a cold stare on Robin.

Robin laughs.    The Saracen remains intense.

He smiles broadly.    Robin claps him on the shoulder.

EXT./INT. PEASANT'S COTTAGE - DAY

CRASH! An armored foot splinters the door of a farmer's

hovel. Children scream and run. A soldier clubs at

them, laughing.

Outside. More soldiers. Some on horses, others on foot,

with leashed hounds. Pillaging. Vandalizing.

Searching.

GUY GISBORNE: An impressive figure on horseback.

Strikingly handsome -- except that one of his ears is

missing. We recognize his face from the Druid ceremony.

He coldly addresses a pregnant woman with a child in her

arms, FANNY.

The soldiers join in his laughter. Incensed, Fanny

pounds her fist on his legs. Gisborne kicks her down.

A BOY of 12 springs from nowhere, thrusting a hay fork at

Gisborne's throat.

CONTINUED:

Wulf backs off.   Nostrils flaring with repressed hate.

While two soldiers grab the Boy, others examine his

hiding place. A secret thatched door, built into the

side of a haystack... a bow and quiver... and a deer

carcass. Gisborne dismounts.

Gisborne drags the boy to the carcass.

He cups his hand in the deer's blood.    Smears it on

Wulf's face.

He tosses his bloody glove to the dogs. They tear at

each other in their effort to rip at the glove.

CONTINUED:

To the accompaniment of the HOUNDS' savage HOWLS and

the horrified screams of his family, Wulf runs.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DUSK

Nearing home, Robin is buoyant.     The Saracen, brooding,

walks two paces behind him.

The Saracen maintains a moody silence.

CONTINUED:

The Saracen reacts, almost imperceptibly.

Aslan is silent, but Robin knows he's right.

Ignoring him, the Saracen stops.      Examines the darkening

sky.

No reply.    Aslan unfolds a prayer rug.

Robin folds his arms.    A standoff.

CONTINUED:

Aslan throws his rug on the ground.    Kneels.

Robin stands smiling over him as Aslan begins his

prayers... BAYING of HUNTING DOGS... In the distance, the

boy Wulf runs toward them, ducks behind a tree and clubs

the leading dog with a branch. The other hounds close

in... panting with exhaustion, Wulf swings into the

branches. A hound savages his leg.

The soldiers surround the tree. The boy clambers

precariously onto the highest branch... Robin surrep-

titiously steals a crossbow from one of the soldiers'

horses.

The soldiers hack at the trunk.    The tree quivers.

Shrouded in his pilgrim's hooded cloak, he approaches

them.

CONTINUED:

He glances nervously at Aslan, who's still at his

prayers. The men stop in mid-swing. More surprised

than scared. Gisborne gestures to the largest of them.

The soldier raises his sword. Robin lifts his cape...

the crossbow. Shoots from the hip. The bolt thuds

through the man's armor. He's dead before he lands.

CONTINUED:

Aslan ignores him, lost in his   prayers. Robin lifts the

other arm -- a second concealed   crossbow. WHUMPF! The

bolt flips the dog handler into   the vicious pack. Dead

or not, he soon will be. Robin    unsheathes his sword.

The Saracen remains head down. Or did we see him steal

a glance? Gisborne signals his men to attack. A wave of

flashing steel.

Backed up to a tree, he grabs a branch and kicks out.

Two men fly back. He lunges at a third. His sword

strikes flesh. Robin sidesteps and hurls the fourth

onto a sharp tree stump.

Gisborne thrusts. Robin reacts too slowly.       Blood flows

from his arm. His sword falls.

Gisborne is on him, sword pressed to his back.      Robin

freezes.

A moment of silence... Like lightning, Robin spins,

kicks out Gisborne's legs. Slams one foot on the man's

sword arm, the other on his throat. Throws back his

pilgrim's hood.

He obeys.    Robin raises his sword.

Robin drives the point into Gisborne's rear.      The man

leaps.

CONTINUED:

Gisborne takes off, colliding with Aslan as he folds his

rug. Reacts in shock at the sight of the strange Arab.

Keeps running.

Aslan examines Robin's wound.   Dismissive.

Wulf climbs cautiously from the tree.

The boy nervously eyes Robin and the Saracen, fingering

a crucifix around his neck. Runs off into the woods.

CONTINUED:

Aslan's humor is infectious.     Robin's anger relents.

EXT. LOCKSLEY CASTLE - NIGHT

Ruins. The moon hovers ominously over the once-proud

castle. Burned to the ground. Gutted and deserted.

Towers demolished. Moat drained. Robin stares, struck

dumb with horror.

The dark courtyard.   Heartsick, Robin stumbles over

debris.

His VOICE ECHOES around the fallen battlements. Aslan

places a hand on his shoulder and points... Suspended

high on a tower wall is a decaying human corpse.

CLOSE - MEDALLION

round the corpse's neck.   The Locksley crest.

A paroxysm of rage and grief. He smashes furniture.

Slams his fists relentlessly into the wall. Pained,

Aslan looks on.

Spent, he leans against the wall. In the silence, they

hear an eerie TAPPING. Robin draws his sword... A

hunched, old man emerges, walking with the aid of a staff

... Duncan.

CONTINUED:

Duncan steps into the moonlight.    His face crudely-

scarred.

Robin holds the old retainer to his chest.    Stares into

the night in silent rage.

EXT. NOTTINGHAM CASTLE - NIGHT

Marked contrast.   A forbidding fortress.   Cliff-like

battlements.

INT. NOTTINGHAM CASTLE - NIGHT

Face like thunder, Guy of Gisborne strides up curving,

stone steps. A long corridor leads to a guarded oak

door.

He shoves the Sentry aside.

EXT. CASTLE BATTLEMENTS - NIGHT

Torches illuminate Nottingham's face. Chilling cruelty

in Manson-like eyes. Seated, his manicured hand dis-

tractedly strokes a semi-naked girl. She sits at his

feet like a frightened dog. When Gisborne enters, she

covers up.

He smashes his fist into his chair.   She timidly

uncovers.

His attention is riveted on a dark niche in the corner of

the courtyard. UNEARTHLY SOUNDS emanate from the black-

ness.

CONTINUED:

Heavy scorn. The sheriff pats Gisborne's hand like a

child's. The voice from the darkness becomes a loud

CHANT. A wrinkled, monkey-like figure dances INTO VIEW,

wearing a necklace of human fingers. You might think

she was a hundred years old, if not for her incredible

agility. MORTIANNA.

The crone's fingers dart into a bag. Emerge with a

writhing, SQUEALING mass... a PIGLET. A knife flashes.

Blood spurts into an ornate, sacred platter.

The girl flinches in horror. Mortianna shakes the con-

tents of a pouch across the bloody dish. Carved bone

dice -- Runes.

She rattles the platter. The rune symbols dance in

trails of blood. Eyes vacant, mouth frothing, she hisses

out her incoherent visions. Nottingham follows her every

move. A connoisseur.

CONTINUED:

The idea takes shape in Nottingham's mind.      Mounting

intensity.

CLOSE SHOT

A dice splashes blood. Lands -- a death's head symbol.

Mortianna hammers the platter. The dice spins and lands

again. Again the grinning skull.

BACK TO SCENE

The tray smashes to the ground.      The hag runs at

Gisborne.

She shakes him.    Screams spittle in his face.

CONTINUED:

She whimpers.   Spins, as if fearing invisible intruders.

Mortianna trembles like an epileptic.    Eyes wide with

terror.

She throws herself at Nottingham for protection.    He

caresses her. Gisborne is thunderstruck.

He continues to stroke her.    Her trembling subsides.

Mortianna reaches out bloodied fingers towards the young

girl, who shrinks away. Nottingham gently takes the

girl's hand.

CONTINUED:

Draws it to his mouth, as if to kiss it... and bites down

viciously, drawing blood. The girl screams.

Mortianna grabs the terrified girl's wrist.   Drags her

away.

EXT. LOCKSLEY CASTLE - DAWN

Red shards of sunlight slice through mist-shrouded trees.

Robin hammers a crude cross over a hillside grave.

Heads bowed, Duncan and Aslan stand at his side.

CONTINUED:

He leads the old man away.

GRAVE SIDE - LATER

Pouring rain. Robin stands drenched at the grave side.

Aslan watches from the shelter of trees. Duncan heats a

stale chunk of bread over the ashes of a small fire.

Duncan offers half the bread to the Saracen.

CONTINUED:

He chokes in shock.   Spitting bread.

Robin raises his dagger over his wrist.   Aslan runs to

him.

Too late. Robin slashes the dagger across his palm.

Rain and blood mingle. Streaming onto the grave.

EXT. FOREST PATH - DAY

Ooze sucks at feet.   The three men stomp through mud and

rain.

CONTINUED:

They approach a stone wall, surrounding a thatched

mansion.

EXT. DUBOIS MANSION - DAY

Robin pounds on the door.    A hatch opens.     An OLD WOMAN's

face.

The hatch slams shut.    Robin pounds again.

A pause.   The hatch slides back.

She slams the hatch again.    Robin jams in his hand.

He shouts through the hatch, over his bruised fingers.

CONTINUED:

Robin refuses. She waits imperiously behind the locked

door. Robin reluctantly withdraws his hand. Instantly

the hatch slams.

They wait, shivering... The door opens a crack.

The three start forward.       Her bony finger points at

Robin.

INT. DUBOIS MANSION - DAY

The hall. Deer heads.        Boar heads.   Portraits of

ancestors.

He waits.    CREAKING FOOTSTEPS on the balcony.

Dim lighting.    Robin cannot make out who it is.

CONTINUED:

She moves into the light... Fat.     Rotten teeth.   Ugly as

sin.

A figure steps behind Robin.    Sticks a sword in his back.

CONTINUED:

The sword is jabbed into his back. Robins faces the man

-- clad in back, with a metal fighting mask.

The figure gestures towards the door. Robin sidesteps.

Slams an elbow. The sword drops. Slides across the

floor. Robin moves for it, but the man intercepts,

drawing a dagger.

Robin darts to the wall. Rips off an antlered deer head.

Defends himself as the attacker slashes at the horns.

OUTSIDE

The SOUND of the fight indoors.   Aslan hurls himself at

the door. It doesn't give.

INSIDE

Chunks of horn fly. Robin parries and thrusts.     The

horns get shorter. Robin retreats.

Left with just the nubs, Robin hurls the deer head at

the mask. Gaining advantage, he charges. Grabs the

dagger hand, smashes it into the wall. The knife drops.

Robin wrenches off the mask.

Long hair tumbles down... a beautiful YOUNG WOMAN.

The front door CAVES IN. Aslan stumbles through... just

in time to see the woman's knee fly up into Robin's

crotch. Robin folds. The battle is over. The young

woman stands over Robin.

Robin croaks through clenched teeth.

INT. KITCHEN

Liquid tumbles into a goblet.   The three men at a table

in the kitchen.

CONTINUED:

The fat girl, SARAH, who pretended to be Marian, serves.

Flashes a lusty smile at Aslan, who glances at Robin --

"Help!" Marian arrives. In a gown. Stunning. An

impish grin.

Aslan laughs.   Robin glares.

EXT. DUBOIS MANSION - DAY

Rock-strewn hills. Grazing sheep. Sun peeking through

clouds. Robin and Marian walk. Anger and anguish in

her voice.

Robin hands her Peter's ring.   She is shocked.

She turns her back.   He searches for a way to reach her.

CONTINUED:

She turns to face him.   Streaming tears.

Robin grabs and holds her.

Their eyes meet... a sudden intimacy between them. Robin

moves closer. Marian begins to respond, then pulls away.

She runs back to the house. Robin stares after her.

Aslan appears in the doorway with Duncan.

He runs to a bluff... a column of soldiers snakes up the

hillside.

CONTINUED:

Aslan runs into the stables.

Marian ices him with a glare. Aslan reappears, with two

bareback horses. Soldiers appear on the crest, led by

Gisborne... With a mischievous grin, Marian runs to the

soldiers.

In answer, Aslan grins. Leaps onto a horse. With a

single swift move he hoists Duncan up behind him and digs

in his heels. The mare leaps forward, and over the

estate wall.

He heads his horse at the wall. It stumbles. Barely

clears it. Stones fly. Robin struggles to hold on.

Marian stands directly in Gisborne's path.

Gisborne knows she is lying.

CONTINUED:

He leads the pursuit.   A SOLDIER hangs back.   Grabs

Marian's hair.

She unsheathes the dagger from under her skirt.    Jabs

the blade into his wrist.

Shocked and pained, the man gallops away. Marian looks

down at her dagger hand. It shakes violently.

EXT. STREAM

Water erupts under hooves. Aslan fords a stream. Duncan

hangs on for dear life. Robin strives to keep up. Half

a mile behind Gisborne splits up his men.

Trying for a short cut, Robin finds himself at the

steepest part of the river gorge. His horse balks at the

drop. Robin flails at his mount with hands and feet. It

backs away.

Aslan shouts from the far bank.

Robin continues to hit his horse and hurl abuse. Closing

in, the soldiers unfurl their crossbows. A flight of

BOLTS WHISTLES ominously close to Robin. He must jump or

die.

CONTINUED:

He pats the horse soothingly.    The animal edges forward.

The soldiers reload.   Robin urges the horse at the steep

drop.

Another wave of crossbow bolts. Robin launches the

frightened animal into space. Hooves flail... touch

down. Scramble up the other bank. Robin

enthusiastically pats the horse's neck.

The first two pursuers misjudge their leaps.     Their

mounts land sprawling in the riverbed.

CONTINUED:

Incensed, he is losing his judgement.

A shaft pierces the flank of Robin's horse. It rears in

fright. Robin clings on. Six soldiers, the men Gisborne

split off, are climbing the embankment towards him.

Robin regains control. Rides right at them. Scatters

them, and takes off again. Gisborne yells at his men to

follow.

Robin and Aslan ride flat out. Open land turns to scrub.

Seeing no followers, Robin pulls up and dismounts.

He gently extracts the shaft from his horse. Aslan opens

his pouch. Pulls out two shiny clear pebbles and a square

leather hide. Rolls the pebbles into the tube and holds

it to his eye. A primitive telescope.

Robin watches, curious.

SCOPE POV

Through the scope we see the movement on the hill behind

them.

BACK TO SCENE

Robin puts the device to his eye...

SCOPE POV

The soldiers are close!

BACK TO SCENE

He reacts in shock. Prepares to defend himself.    Then

realizes they are still in the distance.

CONTINUED:

He replaces the tube in his pouch.

Aslan laughs.   Robin points towards an endless expanse of

trees.

He remounts. They race into the trees. Gisborne's men

thunder up,... slowing as they enter the forest. Peering

around them in trepidation, they slowly rein in. Robin

looks back.

Gisborne curses his men, urging them on.

Eerie HOWLING and RATTLING of bones.    Aslan draws his

sword.

He wraps his scarf over his mouth.

CONTINUED:

WIND GUSTS the trees in angry waves. Emits deathly

SHRIEKS. The HORSES WHINNEY. Unnerved, Aslan smites

around him with his scimitar. Wheels at the sounds,

striking only air.

Duncan clings to his back.   Robin points.

Aslan slashes out, futilely.

Aslan flails.   Robin cracks up.

Robin reaches into the branches. Pulls out a string of

hollowed wooden tubes -- WINDCHIMES. Dozens of such

strings on all the trees. He blows over the hollow end.

A low chilling MOAN.

His laughter is broken by a piercing YELL. A red-

jacketed figure swings down out of a tree on a rope.

Catapults him to the ground.

The bushes are instantly alive. Shaggy, wild-eyed men,

armed with cudgels, scythes and hayforks. Twelfth-

century Hell's Angels. The red-jacketed young turk, WILL

SCARLET, leaps around Robin.

Aslan makes no move to intervene.

CONTINUED:

The woodsmen eye the bizarre stranger, keeping their

distance from him. Will kicks at Robin, who tries to

grab him. Will skips out of range. Robin falls.

Robin looks up... I mean up! A towering figure. Seven

feet of grinning, muscled brute. The giant extends a

vice that passes for a hand. Hauls Robin to his feet.

His eyes twinkle with merriment. His whole body shakes

when he laughs, which is often.

He pauses, checking the faces of the angry peasants.

CONTINUED:

Grabbing Robin, Little shakes him like a doll. Something

CLINKS. Robin's father's medallion. Laughing heartily,

Little rips it from Robin's neck and tosses it to Scarlet.

The men cheer.   John snatches the medallion back from

Will.

Robin draws his sword.

He grins hugely.   A boy pushes his way through the throng.

He reaches for the medallion.    John pulls it away.

CONTINUED:

Another grin. Licking his lips in anticipation, he

lunges for Robin's wrist. Wrenches the sword free.

Bends it into a pretzel.

Aslan shrugs. Robin swings a fist into the giant's gut.

John doesn't flinch. Hoists Robin off the ground with

one arm. Cannonballs the other fist into Robin's

stomach. Robin folds.

The woodsmen find this hysterical. They disappear into

the tree. Will administers one final kick before

leaving. Robin staggers to his feet. Glares furiously

at Aslan.

CONTINUED:

EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY

A large tree trunk spans a swift-flowing river. The

ragged band of woodsmen approach the makeshift bridge.

Stop in their tracks. Robin stands on the bridge,

brandishing a long wooden staff.

CONTINUED:

John grabs a hefty, gnarled staff.   Strides to the

bridge.

His confidence melting, Robin glances back at Duncan

and Aslan, who grins like a fan at a boxing match. John

storms at Robin. Staffs thrash. Driven back, Robin

connects a blow on John's foot.

The giant is off-balance. Robin follows up. Lands a

couple to the ribs. John responds with heavy swings,

which Robin blocks deftly. Back and forth, blow for

blow, all blocked. John chuckles with every swing.

Enjoying the time of his life.

Their staffs lock. It's strength against strength.

Robin is no match. With one mighty thrust, John

hurtles him into the stream. The woodsmen cheer loudly.

Aslan watches impassively.

Robin scrambles back onto the bridge.   John waits,

grinning.

John charges. Robin fends him off, gets in some shots

of his own. John swings in a giant arc. Robin ducks.

John loses balance and falls to his knees. Robin allows

him time to right himself.

John comes at him again, pummeling. Wood splinters from

the impact. Brute force versus agility. Agility is

beginning to prevail, when Robin's staff splits in two.

The coup de grace. Lands heavily. Robin teeters.

Falls. Disappears under the foaming water... does not

re-emerge. John waits. The spectators rush to the bank.

No sign.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly Robin arcs up out of the water. His hands clamp

onto John's ankles. Robin heaves with all his might.

John topples headfirst into the water. Surfaces in panic.

He submerges again.   Robin pulls his head above water.

The terrified giant sputters. Goes under again, flailing

with arms and legs. Robin holds his head just above the

surface.

John struggles, then his feet hit bottom... The water

only reaches his chest.

A tense pause while all wait for Little's reaction.

He hands Robin back the medallion. Chuckling loudly, he

swoops Robin up in his arms and carries him to the bank.

EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - NIGHT

A BONFIRE CRACKLES. The woodsmen drink, eat, argue, and

fight. A rabble. John passes Robin a jug.

CONTINUED:

He spits black objects from his mouth.      Dead bees.   John

grins.

He takes the jug back. Sneezes royally, spewing all over

the brew. Oblivious, he hands the contaminated jug to

Aslan.

He swigs.    Passes the jug on to Duncan, who drinks

heartily.    Wulf cautiously approaches Robin.

Wulf tries the brew. The impact is instant.       He turns

green and runs. His father cracks up.

John points to a short fellow with the build of a tree

trunk.

CONTINUED:

Proudly, he starts to pull down his pants.

Drunken laughter.    Robin turns to the next man at the

fireside.

The man's bald pate blushes scarlet as he tries to

respond, but he stutters too badly to get out a

comprehensible word.

The others make hiccup and belching sounds, and crack up

at Hal's embarrassment. Hal strikes out angrily at his

tormentors.

There is murmuring around the group, but no one elects

to try it.

CONTINUED:

Murmurs of agreement from around the fire.    Robin turns

to Will.

CONTINUED:

Will gets up.   Angrily pushes his way out of the group.

Laughing loudly, he throws back his head for a long

draught of mead.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - SUNRISE

A steady trickle of RAIN drips from leaves onto the nose

of the sleeping Saracen. He wakes, cursing. All around

him the woodsmen lie on the forest floor, covered with

rags and hides coughing and sneezing. A sorry mess.

Robin sits, brooding.

CONTINUED:

He sullenly stalks away. Robin shakes his head. Aslan

is right. He rouses Duncan, who is asleep at his side.

The old man groans awake, holding his head. Seriously

hung-over.

EXT. ROAD TO NOTTINGHAM - DAY

Duncan walks alone, with the aid of his staff. Body

stooped, clothes ragged, a pathetic figure. Ahead is

the main gate to the walled city of Nottingham.

Fresh horse manure. A man's hand reaches into it and

spreads it over his clothes. And his face -- Robin,

dressed as Duncan.

EXT. CITY GATE - DAY

Robin taps his way through the crowd. Past the piercing

stare of the armored GUARD at the gate.

Robin keeps going.   A hand clasps his shoulder.    Spins

him 'round.

CONTINUED:

Robin gazes into space, trying to look blind.   The Guard

sniffs his soiled hand.

He launches a kick in Robin's rear. Robin hobbles away,

hiding a smile. The Guard tries to wipe off his hand on

the wall.

INT. NOTTINGHAM CATHEDRAL - DAY

Jesus hangs from the cross. A magnificent stained glass

window. In the ornate pulpit, the BISHOP OF HEREFORD,

bedecked in ermine.

Nottingham and Gisborne sit piously among the congrega-

tion of nobles and wealthy merchants.

The rear of the church. Standing crushed together, the

poor and afflicted. Old and young. Starving children.

Among them, Robin.

The sermon ends. As the nobles file out, the poor are

galvanized. Begging hands reach out.

CONTINUED:

The rich drop a few mites, sparking a mad scramble.

Church officials roughly keep order. Marian passes some

coins to the mother of a small child. A hand grabs her

wrist.

CONTINUED:

With a grin, he slips into the crowd as Nottingham

arrives.

He raises her hand, as he did the girl's in the castle.

Kisses it.

CONTINUED:

That gleam of insanity.   Robin watches from a distance.

The Sheriff places his hand possessively on her shoulder.

The Sheriff smiles sourly and takes his leave. Marian

deflates with relief. The Sheriff walks alone towards

a side door.

Nottingham makes to shove the man aside. With a swift

move, the beggar grabs the Sheriff in a headlock.

Slides Nottingham's own dagger to his throat and drags

him out of sight.

CONTINUED:

Nottingham starts to struggle.   Robin draws blood.

A YELL from across the church. Gisborne has spotted them.

Robin digs the knife a little deeper.

CONTINUED:

Gisborne yells orders.   Robin hurls Nottingham against

the wall.

EXT. NOTTINGHAM CATHEDRAL - DAY

Robin runs to the courtyard and leaps on the Sheriff's

horse, which is held by a stunned groom. He rides

through the busy marketplace. A crossbowman tracks

him. A sure shot.

Marian spots the danger. She fakes being tripped and

stumbles into the bowman. His bolt flies harmlessly

into the air.

Robin charges for the city gate. As he passes, he kicks

the guard who hasseled him into the wall.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAY

Men gather around as Robin dismounts, admiring the horse.

CONTINUED:

EXT. NOTTINGHAM CATHEDRAL

The Sheriff maniacally spits out orders to Gisborne.

EXT. HAMLET - DAY

A SQUEALING HOG is loaded onto a wagon. SOLDIERS round

up the livestock. An old FARMER protests.

The Soldier brutally kicks the old man to the ground.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAY

A trail of refugees. Women and children carry their

belongings into camp.

CONTINUED:

Wulf runs to greet his mother and siblings.    A contingent

of woodsmen confronts Robin.

This provokes a barrage of protests.   The men are angry.

Murmurs of general agreement.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAY (LATER)

Hands tighten a girth. Will confidently jokes with his

cronies. Woodsmen form a primitive circle of spectators.

Little John and his wife, Fanny, keep to themselves,

while Wulf openly talks with Robin, Aslan and Duncan.

Robin is stripped to the waist, his muscled skin ravaged

with scars.

Will bends, as if checking the horse's legs. Secretly

grabs a handful of sand. Swings into the saddle and digs

in his heels.

Closing in, Will flings the sand in Robin's eyes. Robin

clutches his hands to his face, blinded. Will spins

back to the attack.

His sword slashes. Reacting to the sound, Robin rolls

aside. The men cheer like a big fight crowd.

Robin's POV is blurred. Ducking the blade, he grabs

Will's arm. A blow glances off his shoulder.

Robin falls to his knees, still blinded. Will rides

right at him, to trample him. Robin scrambles away.

Will wheels his horse. A flashing hoof grazes Robin's

chest.

Robin leaps to his feet and yells at the top of his

lungs. Panicked, the HORSE rears, WHINNYING wildly.

Will struggles to stay in the saddle. Loses his sword.

Robin seizes the moment and runs to a water trough.

Douses his face. Yells at Will.

CONTINUED:

Will grabs a spear from a bystander. Robin stands his

ground. Will lunges, Robin sidesteps.

Some of the men laugh. Will is incensed. Robin ducks

and weaves, easily evading Will's repeated charges.

Robin ducks right under the horse's belly.

Will stabs wildly, more and more frustrated. Laughter

spreads, as Robin plays hide and seek around the horse's

legs. Grabbing the end of the spear, he clowns a tug

of war.

Enraged, Will strains and tries to kick Robin away.

Suddenly, Robin lets go. Unbalanced, Will flies back-

wards off his mount.

Robin snatches the spear and raises it over his fallen

adversary. The crowd falls silent. Robin strikes. The

point quivers in the ground below Will's crotch. Will

wriggles in terror. Impaled, his pants rip open.

The crowd is convulsed with laughter. Robin catches his

breath. Does not see Will, who grabs a heavy staff and

runs at him. A strong hand grasps Will's arm as he is

about to strike.

Overpowered, Will relents.   With a defiant glance, he

skulks away.

CONTINUED:

Robin scans the faces.     He has their attention.

EXT. FOREST ROAD - DAY

Autumn. The forest is a mosaic of green, gold, orange,

and red. A giant eye in a circle of glass. Aslan, his

telescope raised.

He grabs the telescope.

SCOPE POV

A phalanx of   mounted soldiers, a cart loaded with

barrels, and   a tax wagon. The wagon is an armored box on

wheels, with   crossbow slits in the side. Guy of Gisborne

commands the   escort.

BACK TO SCENE

Bull calls up from below, where a ragged group of woods-

men lies nervously in ambush.

CONTINUED:

Together they run down the hill, keeping low.

Gisborne eyes the forest. The beer cart is steered by a

fat red-faced FRIAR, raucously singing hymns and quaffing

from a jug, which he repeatedly dips into one of the

barrels.

ARROWS WHISTLE in. The Friar yells and drops his jug. A

soldier is hit. At the forest edge, four woodsmen reload

their longbows. Dressed in green, their faces

camouflaged.

The mounted soldiers charge them. The  woodsmen run into

the trees. As the horsemen close in,  the runners leap

into a trench. Lift up matted screens  of brush and

grass. It's as if they disappeared.   The soldiers slash

wildly at the thick screens.

More arrows fly. More soldiers fall. The others spin

in confusion, trying to discern the enemy. More woods-

men break from cover. Run down a narrow path. Gisborne

urges his men to pursue. They ride in single file,

beating their way through the tangled branches.

The runners dive into the trees, as other men haul on

ropes, raising a giant screen in the soldiers' path. The

horses swerve, on the edge of a twenty-foot drop to the

river gorge. Momentum  carries many of them over the

cliff.

BACK ON ROADWAY

Robin and Aslan swing down from the trees onto the tax

wagon. Kick down the two drivers and take the reins,

steering the wagon off the road. The archers inside are

unable to fire at them.

Little John leaps onto the beer cart, sending the Friar

hurtling back among the barrels. The Friar slams his

head and drops unconscious. John whips the horse,

driving the cart after Robin. Another camouflage screen

is lifted into place, covering their route.

CONTINUED:

Gisborne races back to the road... the wagons are gone.

He rides frantically back and forth. Searching and

cursing.

EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY

Robin climbs onto the tax wagon's roof.     Angry shouts

from inside.

In answer, a swordblade jabs up through the roof, near

his feet.

He signals to Aslan, who steers the tax wagon into the

river. Water floods in through the slits. Inside,

panic. Drowning rats.

The bowmen scramble out. What they see stops them dead.

Both banks are men in green, longbows aimed directly at

them.

COUNTRYSIDE

Sparks. An axe pounds into the lock of a strongbox. The

lock snaps. Little John pries open the lid. Reacts in

astonishment. The trunk is filled to the brim with

glittering gold coins. The woodsmen press around.

Cheers of celebration.

He turns at the sound of a brawl from the Friar's cart.

The Friar is at the bottom of a struggling heap of bodies.

Robin drags the men off. The Friar clambers to his feet.

Around him are strewn battered and winded woodsmen.

CONTINUED:

He indicates his cargo of barrels.

Ignoring him, the Friar mounts the cart.

This sparks a chorus of comments.

The Friar relents, loosening his grip on the reins.

Casually reaching under the seat, he pulls out a club.

Smites Robin with it.

CONTINUED:

Robin staggers. The Friar whips up the horse. Dazed,

Robin grabs for the fat man's leg. Gets a holy sandal

full in the face.

The Friar's horse, as obese as his driver, slowly raises

his head from the grass and ambles forward. Robin runs

after them and dives at the Friar, toppling him from the

cart.

Scrambling to his feet, the Friar glances skyward.

He sweeps his foot, knocking Robin's legs out from under

him. Hurls his full body weight on top of him. Whooomf!

He bounces on Robin's stomach. Robin can barely breathe.

The woodsmen are enjoying the spectacle.

Desperate, Robin bites the Friar's leg. Tuck howls.

Robin extricates himself, grabs for a weapon. Smashes

the Friar's head with his drinking jug.

He dives onto the Friar and hammers his head into the

ground.

CONTINUED:

Tuck holds up a hand in surrender.    Robin eases off.

The Friar struggles to his feet. He reviews the motley

faces of his potential flock. His eyes light on the

grinning Saracen.

He punches Robin in the gut.

FRIAR TUCK

strapped into the traces, pulls the beer cart. Sweating

profusely, grunting with strain. His horse contentedly

follows.

He flicks the reins, steering the cart into camp. Women

and children rush to greet their men. Jeer the roped

soldier-prisoners. The Friar checks out his flock. A

woman curtsies, another crosses herself, children touch

his robe in wonder.

Tuck surveys the hopeful, hungry faces. The little

hamlet of half-built huts. He folds his hands in a

moment of prayer.

CONTINUED:

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP

A blazing fire. Deer carcasses roast. Tuck's barrels

supply the refreshment. Robin and Aslan pass out coins

to each family.

Little John and Bull approach. John indicates the two

prisoners roped to a nearby tree.

CAPTAIN OF SOLDIERS

stares up at Robin defiantly.

CONTINUED:

With a hair-raising war cry, Aslan   leaps INTO VIEW.

Stripped to the waist, brandishing   his scimitar. The

Captain tries to back away. Robin    tries to restrain

Aslan, is hurled aside. Snarling,    drooling at the mouth,

Aslan explores the Captain's body   with his hands. A

butcher checking meat.

The other soldier, who definitely  has more flesh on the

bone, is struck dumb with horror,  as Aslan turns his

attention to him. With one swing   of his sword, Aslan

slices through the man's ropes.   Drags him to his feet.

Little John runs over.

Blood-curdling SCREAMS from behind the wagon where Aslan

has dragged his victim. The Captain's face pales. Then

silence.

CONTINUED:

The demented Arab slowly reappears. Blood drips from his

lips. He munches the flesh from a long bone, on the end

of which is the soldier's glove... the man's arm.

Turning to Robin, Aslan shouts in Arabic and gesticulates

wildly at the Captain.

BEHIND WAGON

Bull holds the other prisoner, muffling the man's mouth

and trying to suppress his own laughter. Beside them

lies a large chunk of venison. The man is unharmed,

except that he's missing a glove.

INT. WOODSMAN'S HUT - NIGHT

The walls shake with Little John's laughter.

Aslan repeats his wildman act, munching on a chunk of

venison.

CONTINUED:

INT. CASTLE ARMORY - NIGHT

Sparks. Smoke. Sweat. The Sheriff inspects his weapon

factory. His eyes glint with the reflections of the

smithy's fires.

A DOOR CRASHES open behind him. FOOTSTEPS. Paying no

heed, he draws a sword from a furnace. It's blade white-

hot.

Nottingham tests the sword against an anvil.

CONTINUED:

The Sheriff looks at Gisborne for the first time.

He places a hand reassuringly on his cousin's shoulder.

Without warning, he drives the blade into Gisborne's

belly.

EXT. VILLAGE - DAY

A small procession. Tuck drives his cart, Bull the tax

wagon. Both vehicles laden with supplies. Wulf and Hal

pass out flour, chickens, blankets, clothing to the

villagers. Their weapons are prominently displayed.

Tuck swigs from a jar, passes it to an old villager.

CONTINUED:

Laughter. The procession passes two of the Sheriff's

mounted soldiers. They glumly watch as Tuck raises his

jug in greeting.

EXT. FOREST POOL - DAY

Water, sparkling with sunlight. Bursts, as Robin dives

in naked. He luxuriates in the cool water... HOOFBEATS.

He attempts to hide... too late. Four horses emerge from

the trees. Bull and Hal, with Marian and her servant

Sarah sandwiched between them. Bull has a black eye.

Marian jumps down.

In response, she starts pelting him with stones.

CONTINUED:

He wades bare-ass naked out of the water towards her.

She casts a contemptuous look over his muscled body,

glistening with water.

She slugs him. Robin stumbles backwards into the water.

Bull grins, gesturing to Sarah and pointing to his own

black eye.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAY

An arrow flies into a bull's-eye, crudely marked on a

tree. Little John lowers his crossbow, delighted at

his shot.

Wulf takes aim. His arrow slices clear through his

father's arrow, splitting it in two. Little John slaps

Wulf on the back and beckons everyone over.

Robin leads Marian through the camp... the beginnings of

a village -- women doing laundry, kids playing, men prac-

ticing archery and swordplay, others working on defenses,

camouflaging a giant pit. Marian is impressed, but not

about to admit it.

Robin leads her into a hut. Inside is a trove of cap-

tured loot -- purses, jewelry, weaponry, fancy coats

and... the treasure chest. At Robin's nod, Bull throws

back the lid. Marian is speechless.

CONTINUED:

A beat. She checks the faces. Her eyes meet Robin's.

Is there a hint of concern for him also?

A little girl approaches, holding a bouquet of wild

flowers. Touched, Marian kneels to accept the offering.

BOUQUET

protrudes from Marian's saddle. She is mounted, ready

to go. Sarah giggles as she takes her leave of Bull.

CONTINUED:

Robin laughs and speaks to Marian in a stage whisper.

Taking the lead rein from Duncan's horse, she rides away.

INT. DUBOIS MANSION - DAY

A globule of red liquid.    A signet ring.   Marian seals

a letter.

INT. BISHOP'S CASTLE - DAY

The letter is held in the pudgy, jeweled fingers of the

Bishop of Hereford. A lavish office.

He hands the letter to a solemn courier.

CONTINUED:

The courier bows in acknowledgement.    Marian indicates

Sarah.

Surprised, the courier glances at the Bishop.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAY

An informal council of war.   Robin uses a stick in the

dirt.

Wulf runs up to Little John in panic.

INT. WOODSMEN'S HUT - DAY

Fanny Little writhes in agony.    John rushes in.   Tuck

looks up from Fanny's side.

Fanny screams.   John kneels beside her, taking her head.

Aslan appears in the doorway, with Robin. Whips back the

blanket. Fanny's chest is covered with black squirming

creatures.

He starts to pull the parasites off.    Tuck jumps at him.

Aslan pushes him away, continuing his work.

John is paralyzed with confusion.    Tuck appeals to Robin.

Tuck raises an arm to strike Aslan. Robin blocks the

blow. Aslan gently touches the mother's stomach.

CONTINUED:

Fanny cries out.   John looks to Robin, pleading for

advice.

John's eyes meet his wife's.   She nods.

He storms out.   All business, Aslan speaks to Wulf.

Wulf runs to obey. John looks horrified. Robin eases

him outside, then returns to Aslan's side. They

whisper.

CONTINUED:

Wulf runs back in.     Aslan holds up a piece of wood.

He lifts the red-hot knife from the ashes.

OUTSIDE

Little John paces. Wulf comes out of the hut.      Families

hover and wait. From inside, MUFFLED GROANS.

John moves to the hut.     Wulf restrains him.

INSIDE

The mother heaves, then drops.

CONTINUED:

Aslan ignores him, keeps working over Fanny's body.

Robin cannot watch... a WAIL! Aslan mutters something

in awed Arabic.

Aslan holds up a bloody struggling infant.

The mother revives.   Aslan places the child on her

breast.

He picks up the needle and thread.   Robin's eyes turn to

the woman's abdomen... He faints.

LITTLE JOHN

marches among the cheering families, holding his newborn

child high for all to see. Tuck sits miserably to one

side. Bloody and  exhausted, Aslan appears at the hut

door. Tuck jumps  to his feet, drawing his knife.

Heads turn. Tense silence. Robin appears, unsteadily,

behind Aslan. Watches, ready to intervene. Tuck stares

at Aslan. Raises his blade... and slices down across

his own wrist.

He hands Aslan the knife and extends his bloodied wrist.

Aslan slices his own wrist. The two wrists clasp

together in the universal sign of brotherhood. Everyone

cheers.

CONTINUED:

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Hooves fly along a track. Sarah and the courier.    The

courier reins in, Sarah draws alongside.

Sarah leans down to look and the courier cudgels her

across the neck. She falls from the saddle, unconscious.

INT. DUBOIS MANSION - MARIAN'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

Flickering candlelight. Marian is alone, reading. A

sudden gust extinguishes her candle. HAMMERING and

SHOUTING from a distant part of the house. Unnerved,

she calls out.

INT. DUBOIS MANSION - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Marian enters stealthily. A candle in one hand, a

drawn dagger in the other. Something leaps at her!...

A cat, looking for scraps on the kitchen table. She

shoos him down.

She sighs with relief... is grabbed from behind.   A

masked SOLDIER.

CONTINUED:

He reveals a large scar on his wrist -- removes his

mask -- the man who attacked her earlier. He prods

her with his sword.

She drops the sword. He hurls her against the table.

Lays his blade against her chest.

Resignedly, she raises a hand to loosen the string on her

dress. With the other hand she reaches behind her, grabs

a pepper bowl. Flips the contents into his face.

Screaming, he grabs his  face. She reaches for her

dagger. He slashes with   his sword. She backs to the

fireplace, grabs a spit  of roasted chickens... drives

the point clean through  his chest.

He stares in shock at his own blood pouring from the

cooked fowls pinned to his breast... FOOTSTEPS... masked

soldiers converge from both sides of the house, dragging

the servants. Duncan  is shoved through the door.

She stares at the invaders with studied calm.

AERIAL SHOT

FLYING LOW OVER treetops, OVER an expanse of green,

intersected by brown roads and tracks. We are LOOKING

AT a detailed scale model of Sherwood Forest in...

INT. CASTLE CHAMBER - NIGHT

The Sheriff and SIX BARONS are gathered around the model.

These are the men who revealed their faces to Lord

Locksley in the Druid ceremony. Nottingham toys with

a white rat on his arm.

Sounds of COMMOTION outside. The door swings open.

Framed in the doorway is a colossus in black armor.

His helmet is the head of a dragon. He slowly raises the

visor. Deep tribal scars on his cheeks. Implacable

ferocity in his eyes.

CONTINUED:

The Chieftain strides across to the fire. Grabs a

burning log. The Baron backs away in fear. The log

spits sparks as the Chieftain raises it above his head...

and drives it into his own palm. He stares unblinking

at the Baron, holding the log to his hand for a full

three seconds.

An awed silence. Nottingham grins, delighted with the

demonstration. He deposits his white rat onto the model.

The rat has scurried into the shelter of the model trees.

The Chieftain watches impassively, then calmly touches

the log to the model. The trees ignite... the RAT

SQUEALS in terror and runs. The Chieftain cuts off its

escape, setting fire to more trees... again... and

again. The Sheriff watches the flames, fascinated.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - NIGHT

The campfire. Aslan shrieks a war cry.   Dervishes 'round

the fire, swigging from a jug. Equally  drunk, the Friar

follows, howling, mimicking him. Robin  and the others

watch in amusement. Tuck scoops another  jug and hands it

to Aslan.

He downs the entire jug in one long draught.   Refills it.

Tuck laughs and drinks. Aslan sways and topples at the

Friar's feet. Heaves up all over the holy sandals. Tuck

looks at Robin.

CONTINUED:

EXT. FOREST LANE - DAWN

A masked soldier gallops along.    Hurls a bundle to the

ground.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAWN

The Friar and the Saracen lie head to head on the dewey

grass. Tuck  snores. Robin shakes Aslan, who grabs for

his weapon.  The hangover hits him like a mallet. He

clutches his temples.

An ARROW WHISTLES into a tree.    Robin reacts.

EXT. FOREST LANE - DAY

Bull and Hal are crouched in the roadway, over a body.

Robin runs up with Aslan. He kneels beside them. The

body is Duncan. Robin clasps a dead hand... Silence.

Fighting his emotions.

CONTINUED:

He hands Robin his telescope.

EXT. CAVES

SQUAWKING ominously, CROWS burst from the trees. Robin

rides up the path to the caves that his father took.

Checks the ground. Horse tracks. He dismounts, moves

cautiously forward.

POV THROUGH SCOPE - CIRCLE OF STONES

No one visible. Debris. Smoke rises from ashes.

Remnants of a recent ceremony.

BACK TO SCENE

Robin climbs silently down the rocks into the stone

circle. There is blood on the sacrificial altar.

Through the opening of the cave, he spies a woman's form,

lying face down.

CONTINUED:

He runs forward. Turns the body over. Skin chalk-white

from loss of blood... Sarah! A shadow falls across

Robin. Before he can react, a cudgel stuns him into

blackness.

INT. CAVE - DAY

Robin's eyes  -- he wakes. Squints around him, the dark

smoke-filled  recesses of the caves. The walls weave.

Eerie WATERY  sounds, like the CRIES of drowning men.

He tries to  stand.

A figure in a flowing white robe. Angelic. Floating

towards him... Marian. He tries to speak her name.

Reaches out his hand.

Her LAUGH ECHOES around the cave, as if hundreds of lost

souls are laughing with her. Robin crawls away, cover-

ing his ears. Marian lifts his face to hers.

Weakly, Robin tries to push away the cup.   Her hand

grips his chin, forcing his mouth open.

The liquid trickles over his lips. He tries to focus.

Her features are BLURRED, her voice hypnotic.

Her face is inches from his. He tries to pull away, his

subconscious sounding alarms.

CONTINUED:

He gives himself to her. Their lips meet... something

changes in his vision. Her eyes glow red. Her face

starts to shrivel -- He is kissing the wrinkled lips of

Mortianna.

He pulls away... strong arms grab him. He shakes his

head, trying to make sense. Through his BLURRED vision,

we see he is surrounded by masked men.

A guard forces Robin's hand across the page... then

cries out, clutching his back... An arrow lodged be-

tween his shoulders.

In the cave mouth are Wulf, bow in hand, Bull kneeling

beside Sarah's corpse, and Aslan.

Aslan's war CRY RICHOCHETS off the cave walls. A    curved

scimitar in one hand, a straight English sword in   the

other, his arms are lethal windmills. The masked    guards

are cut down left and right. Mortianna retreats,    scurry-

ing into the depths of the cave.

CONTINUED:

Bull joins the fray, charging like his namesake, howling

in rage, flailing at heads with his quarterstaff. Wulf

stays in the mouth, picking off men with deadly accuracy.

A furious melee. Bull and Aslan mow down the enemy like

hay, battling far superior odds. Soon they are the only

two left standing. Bull peers cautiously into the dark-

ness. Behind him, one of his victims crawls back to his

feet... and lunges.

Too late. A sword is driven through Bull's gut. Aslan

grabs the attacker by the neck and pile-drives him into

the cave wall. The man's SKULL CRACKS against the rocks.

Aslan runs to Robin's side, as Wulf hurries to Bull's.

Robin is slumped against a rock.

Aslan runs to the back of the cave, searching. Wulf is

crouched beside Bull, who murmurs his dying words.

Aslan stumbles at the edge of a deep crevasse. Far be-

low he sees Mortianna, clambering down the steep rock.

For a second their eyes meet. She hisses -- venom,

hatred, fear -- then is gone.

EXT. GREGOR CAVES - DAY

Aslan carries Robin outside. Robin is staggering,

glassy-eyed, mumbling incoherently. His arm blocks

the light from his eyes.

He drops to one knee, slams Robin violently across the

other. Slaps him on the back and forces his fingers

down his throat.

CONTINUED:

EXT. COUNTRY LANE - DAY

Distant THUNDER. Three horses. First Wulf's, leading

another with the bodies of Bull and Sarah draped across

its back. Aslan rides the third, with Robin propped up

in front of him.

Ahead of them, Wulf shouts and reins in. He points into

the distance. A huge cloud of smoke is darkening the

sky.

EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - DAY

Fire.   Blazing rampant.

Along a hillside are hundreds of crossbowmen with fire

arrows. At a shouted order, another wave of flaming

arrows ignites the trees.

Behind the crossbowmen are two figures on horseback.

One is the Sheriff, in full armor. The other is the

black-clad Celtic chieftain. He sits as still as a rock.

EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAY

Chaos. Acrid black smoke pours across the clearing.

Disarray. COUGHING, SCREAMING, confusion. Little John

vainly attempts to instill calm.

Scared and injured woodsmen careen out of the trees.

Full retreat.

Two woodsmen, blinded and choking, stumble into one of

their own camouflaged pits. Hideous screams as they're

impaled on hidden stakes. John tries to gather the able-

bodied men to his side.

Most of them keep on running.

Hal runs to join them, stuttering.

CONTINUED:

EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY

Celts, arrayed behind their Chieftain. An awesome sight.

Clad in hides and skins, painted arms and faces, head-

pieces the faces of wild animals. Standing in eerie

silence. A loud CLAP of THUNDER. Nottingham rides up

to the Chieftain.

The Chieftain does not turn his head.

With only a short flick of his head, the Chieftain spits.

Nottingham waves his arm, signalling his own foot sol-

diers to advance. The Chieftain raises his sword.

Instantly a tumultuous chilling roar from his warriors.

They charge forward.

EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - DAY

The bloodcurdling cry fills the sky. Amidst the smoke

and chaos, Little John's small band is gathered at the

edge of the clearing.

CONTINUED:

Half-hearted support from about a dozen men, including

Tack.

He snatches a quarterstaff.    John slaps him on the back.

The men are encouraged.

EXT. FOREST ROAD - DAY

Aslan reins in. In the valley below, the forest is

ablaze. The Sheriff's armed hordes swarm over the em-

battled woodsmen.

He climbs onto Wulf's horse, steers it right at the heart

of the enemy... Aslan blocks his way, grabbing his reins.

CONTINUED:

Robin debates.   Relents.   They urge their horses into

a gallop.

EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - DAY

The Sheriff's men stomp through the burning forest.

From the other side of the flaming trees, Little John's

men pick off shots with their longbows. They retreat,

turn and fire again.

They back into a clearing... The Celtic mercenaries

charge at them across the open ground. The woodsmen

drop their bows. Hand-to-hand combat. Woodsmen are

being decimated.

Little John storms and shouts, cutting down the enemy,

inspiring his men. The Scotsmen are awed by this giant.

Tuck is confronted by a wild-eyed Celt.

The man swings, Tuck sidesteps.

He pummels the man to the ground with his staff.

The woodsmen are broken into two groups. One group,

including Will, is surrounded and surrenders. The others

fight on.

Bleeding from several wounds, Little John is surrounded

by four Celts. He spins, challenging them, spitting out

expletives. Defiant to the last... suddenly his

attackers are hurled aside. Robin rides right through

them, slashing with his sword.

Tuck is driven to the ground... his assailant is deliver-

ing the lethal blow, when Aslan cuts him down. Tuck

glances heavenwards.

CONTINUED:

Aslan is a   wild man. Steering his horse with just legs

and knees,   he strikes out with both swords to left and

right. The    momentum is turning. Wulf appears at the

edge of the   clearing. Starts picking off stragglers.

His father   spots him.

Distracted, he doesn't see a Celt swing at his back...

but Wulf's arrow pierces the man's adam's apple. He

freezes in mid-air, before toppling at John's feet.

When John turns back, Wulf is being dragged away by

three of the Sherrif's men. He attempts to pursue, but

is intercepted by two more Celts... and struck down.

Aslan charges between the two Celts. Slashes down

with both swords. Both men topple to the ground

simultaneously.

Suddenly all is quiet.    The smoking clearing is a mass

of fallen bodies. Only    four men seem to be alive.

Robin, Aslan, Tuck, who   is slouched against a tree

gasping for breath, and   Hal, who kneels clutching his

wounded shoulder.

Robin dismounts and runs to Little John. Overwhelmed

and exhausted, he slumps over the giant's unmoving form.

Robin manages a relieved smile. Aslan strides over.

All around them lie slain Celts and woodsmen.

EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - DUSK

A shovel breaks dirt. Beyond exhaustion, Robin digs a

grave. The clearing is transformed into a cemetery.

Tuck blesses the bodies of Bull and Sarah. Aslan drags

a Celt's corpse into a grave. Throws the man's armor

and weapons into a growing pile.

CONTINUED:

He stares across the desolate clearing.

INT. CASTLE DUNGEONS - NIGHT

A heavy key turns in a lock. Bolts drawn back. Fol-

lowed by guards, Nottingham enters the torture chamber

where the captured woodsmen are chained, among them

Wulf and Will Scarlet. Putrid ankle-deep water on the

floor, walls encrusted with dried blood and grime.

Nottingham walks up to the FIRST MAN. Wry smile.

Dignity masking his terror.    Nottingham appears to

consider.

The man is dragged away by guards.    The next PRISONER --

CONTINUED:

Nottingham strides up to Will, drawing his sword.

Nottingham places his sword point against Will's throat.

Nottingham slides his blade between Will's teeth.

He withdraws the blade.    Will tries to smile.

CONTINUED:

He turns back to Will.   A smile of mock apology.

EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - NIGHT

A winter's night. Bitterly    cold.  Sad figures huddled

around a small fire. Fanny    tends to John's wounds, their

little ones asleep by their   feet.  John drinks and passes

the jug to Tuck, who numbly   shakes his head. Too

depressed even to drink.

Aslan folds his prayer rug and walks over to Robin, who

sits alone, staring vacantly into the darkness.

Aslan stares at him, then turns away. Not the time for

argument. Robin fingers his father's medallion... rips

it from his neck.

CONTINUED:

He hurls the medallion... it catches on a low-hanging

branch.

NOVEMBER MOON

Watery, full. The FOCUS SHIFTS TO the medallion,

dangling in its center... the last thing Robin sees

before his eyes close into troubled sleep. The white

moon against the black sky...

ITS NEGATIVE IMAGE

-- a black circle against a white sky. An executioner.

The round medallion has become a noose.

In the noose appears Wulf's face. The executioner hauls

on the rope and Wulf's features contort in the agony of

death. Another noose, another face... Duncan. Another

-- Bull. Another -- Marian.

The noose tightens on her neck. As she dies, her face

shrivels into the cackling features of Mortianna.

Next, Robin's father.   He stares accusingly right AT us.

Before he pulls the rope, the executioner peels back his

hood... It is Robin. Gloating, he hauls on the rope.

His laughter blends with that of Mortianna in a hideous

cacophony.

ROBIN'S FACE

DISTORTED in water. The LAUGHTER BECOMES the sound of

a RUNNING RIVER. Robin is washing, trying to drive away

the horror.

CONTINUED:

The first streaks of light fight their way through a

thick, morning mist. Out of the mist steps a figure,

at first indecipherable. Aware of his presence,

Robin looks up.

Before Will can answer, Little John runs up.     Grabs

Will's throat.

Quickly, others arrive. Aslan, Tuck, Hal, Fanny, with

kids clinging to her skirts.

Will is choking, unable to speak. John loosens his hold

just enough for Will to splutter out...

CONTINUED:

John reluctantly moves his hold from Will's neck to his

shoulders.

Will eyes the accusing faces. Hal searches, lifts Will's

shirt. His whole skin is lacerated with deep gashes and

fresh burns.

He steps back.    Ready to listen.

Fanny drops her head on John's shoulder.

CONTINUED:

Will turns his gaze directly on Robin.

Everyone reacts with shock.     Only Robin appears unsur-

prised.

CONTINUED:

Robin is on the spot.    All eyes on him.   Will presses his

point.

Robin checks the other faces.

He can't get it out.    Little John covers Hal's mouth.

EXT. NOTTINGHAM TOWN SQUARE - DUSK

Ten gallows, silhouetted against the setting sun. The

black-armored Celt tests a gallows, springing the hatch.

A heavy sack dangles from the rope. Grim-faced peasants

watch. Among  them -- Fanny Little.

INT. DUNGEON - DUSK

The sound of the gallows ECHOES inside the damp, stone

walls. Wulf and the other woodsmen are chained to rings

in the floor. Wulf lifts his eyes to a chink of light

high in the wall. The purple sky is turning black. He

fingers his wooden crucifix.

The light in the cell melts to total darkness.

BRANCHES

Sunlight glistens on frost-laden branches.      A COCK ROBIN

CHIRPS.

EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - DAWN

In the troubled human realm, Tuck says his morning

prayer.

Aslan is crushing charcoal into a mixture of yellow

powder, which is turning black. Tuck approaches.

Tuck takes a bowl of the powder close to the fire to

examine it. Aslan snatches it back... Before Tuck can

react, Robin walks up.

CONTINUED:

Aslan throws a handful of powder into the firel A fire-

ball rips ten feet in the air... Tuck falls on his ass

in terror.

Robin reaches out and shakes Aslan's hand. A moment of

bonding. He moves on to the others, clasping each man's

hand as he speaks.

A moment of tension before Will takes the proferred hand.

She strides towards them from the trees.

CONTINUED:

Robin starts to draw a diagram on the ground with a

stick.

Little John double-takes.

EXT. NOTTINGHAM - DAY

The gallows. Swathed in a pink glow. A brilliant,

wintry morning. Breath billows from the mouths of the

sentries.

INT. NOTTINGHAM CASTLE - CORRIDOR - DAY

Boots clack confidently down a stone corridor. The

Sheriff decked in wedding finery. He enters...

INT. CASTLE CHAMBER - DAY

... Mortianna's apothecary. Dark, smoke-filled. Foul

things in jars. Animals in cages, waiting to meet

unspeakable ends. Marian is strapped in a chair, flanked

by two armed guards.

Marian smiles as he leans toward her... and spits in his

face.

He slowly wipes off the spittle... and slaps her hard.

CONTINUED:

Mortianna emerges from a dark corner, bearing the goblet

she used at the Druid ceremony.

Marian struggles against her bonds.

The guards viciously restrain her, forcing her mouth

open. Mortianna pours the blood-red liquid down her

throat. Marian fights, gagging and choking... until the

drug takes its effect. She slumps forward. Nottingham

watches with amusement.

Mortianna squats on the floor besides a platter of blood.

Clasps the dice-like runes.

Mortianna rocks on her heels, clutching her taloned hands

to her sides. She chants, fingering the bloody stones.

She stares at Nottingham, her red eyes demented.

CONTINUED:

Mortianna runs at him.   Points her bony finger at his

heart.

EXT. CITY GATE - DAY

Masses stream in. They give wide berth to a Celtic war-

rior in a boar's head helmet. Soldiers prod and harness

the passing peasants. Tuck drives a cartload of barrels.

A GUARD stops him.

CONTINUED:

EXT. DUNGEON GATE - DAY

Wulf blinks at the sunlight as the prisoners are led out.

Holds his head high. Soldiers hurl abuse, the people are

too cowed to show support. Fanny glances at her son,

crosses herself and scurries into the castle, unnoticed.

On horseback, encircled by guards, the Sheriff and his

baron cronies watch the outlaws progress with cruel

amusement. A  yell attracts Nottingham. Will is being

shoved back by guards.

Nottingham shouts to one of his mounted guards, who rides

over, grabs Will by the collar, and drags him to his

side.

The Sheriff strikes down with his armored hand.    Will

crumples.

Hands yank Will to his feet. Dazed, he tries to speak.

Disinterested, Nottingham turns away, until he catches...

Will struggles to get free of his holders.

CONTINUED:

Nottingham's jaw tightens.   Eyes the prisoners, the

scaffold.

The parade of prisoners reaches them. Seeing Will, Wulf

charges at him, screaming in blind rage. Soldiers grab

Wulf. Throw him down, kicking and beating. Voices in

the crowd plead to let him be. Someone tries to

intervene, gets hurled down.

EXT. SCAFFOLD

Tuck urges his ancient nag towards the scaffold with his

cargo of barrels. The crowd parts unwillingly.

CONTINUED:

Across the square, Will points urgently in Tuck's

direction.

EXT. CITY WALL - DAY

A massive oak stands near the southern wall. A large

figure climbs to its uppermost branches. Little John.

He scrambles from the tree, starts to climb the wall

itself. He slips frequently.

EXT. CITY SQUARE - DAY

The prisoners are led to the scaffold, where the hooded

executioner waits, along with the Chieftain. Wulf

staggers, from his beating.

Nottingham's men encircle Tuck's cart.    He watches them

nervously.

EXT. CITY PARAPET - DAY

Fanny lowers a knotted rope over the battlement. Far

below, John clings to the outer wall. Above him it's

sheer, without footholds. The rope doesn't reach his

fingertips. He stretches, loses balance. Falls...

desperately grabbing at the rope. He swings, clinging

by one arm, his body smashing into the wall.

EXT. CITY SQUARE - DAY

Will leads the Sheriff to Tuck's cart.

Tuck glares at Will with unconcealed hatred.

CONTINUED:

A cask is shattered... wine torrents out.

A drum roll. The Sheriff's attention turns to the

scaffold, where the first victim is escorted up the

steps -- Wulf.

Tense, Tuck pulls a tinder box from his robes, strikes

a flame.

EXT. CITY PARAPET - DAY

John strains, heaving his giant frame up the rope. He

nears the top, just as a SENTRY approaches. Fanny blocks

the man's view.

She gestures below. The Sentry looks, then turns back to

her... notices the rope. With all her might, Fanny rams

his head into the stone battlement. Twice. Three times.

He slumps unconscious.

EXT. CITY SQUARE - DAY

Wulf crosses himself as the executioner steers him to the

noose. A hush falls... except for a rotund old woman who

is barging to the front. And a WOUNDED SOLDIER, his head

bandaged, who eases her path, striking out with his tree-

branch crutch.

EXT. CITY PARAPET - DAY

John struggles over the battlement.   Collapses.

She wrenches the longbow from his back, fumbles for an

arrow.

EXT. CITY SQUARE - DAY

The scaffold is impregnable. Celts and their Chieftain

guard the platform itself. The Sherriff's men surround

the base.

The executioner encircles Wulf's neck with the noose.

SPARKS! Tuck ignites a fuse-cord leading to one of the

barrels.

A hand tightens the noose... Another grasps an arrow.

The executioner's eyes glint through the slits.

Nottingham intently watches Wulf.

The Chieftain stands, impassive.

Fingers close on a bowstring... the fuse-cord burns.

Wulf steps to the trap, ready to plunge.   His eyes close.

An arrow flies... slices through the executioner's eye

slit.

The executioner falls. Little John celebrates... but

the Chieftain leaps forward... releases the trap.

Wulf's body plunges.   The rope snaps tight.

Little John yells.   Fanny screams.

A figure leaps onto the platform... the wounded soldier

throws aside his crutch... Robin!

Wulf dangles, strangling.   His hands wrench at the

choking cord.

CONTINUED:

The burning fuse-cord reaches the barrel. Tuck hurls the

smoking barrel thundering towards the Sheriff... Spotting

it, Nottingham urges his horse over his own men in his

effort to escape.

The Chieftain smites at Robin... his blow is blocked...

by the Celt with the boar's head.

KAABOOM! The GUNPOWDER in the barrel EXPLODES. Spewing

smoke and wood. SCREAMS of panic. Soldiers fly. Mass

confusion.

Amidst the smoke... Robin's sword slashes through Wulf's

rope. He hauls him onto the platform.

Another figure on the platform... the old woman. Slashes

the ropes of the other prisoners. Whips off her wig...

It's Hal. He passes out weapons from a bundle under his

arm.

A guard attacks, Hal fells him.

No stutter this time!    The woodsmen join battle with the

guards.

The Chieftain cudgels his Celt attacker across the head.

The boar's head helmet tumbles... revealing Aslan.

Aslan retreats, fending off the Chieftain's shattering

blows.

FROM PARAPET

John and Fanny peer down as the smoke clears. They watch

Wulf struggle to his feet. A Celt sneaks up behind him.

CONTINUED:

He aims.   Grits his teeth... picks off the Celt with a

shaft.

ON SCENE

Robin leaps and swings from gallows to gallows, kicking

out, slashing down. Sends two Celts hurtling down the

trap hole.

Will battles the Sheriff. A reprise of his own fight

with Robin, the roles reversed. The Sheriff, armed and

mounted, flails at Will, who, unarmed, dodges in and

around the horse's legs.

Aslan and the Chieftain are locked in mortal combat.

Aslan stumbles back and falls. The Chieftain swipes at

his head. Aslan rolls aside. The sword smashes wood.

Tuck surrounded, rolls another smoking BARREL... It

EXPLODES.

The Greybeard Baron spots Little John and Fanny on the

parapet.

Crossbowmen on the opposite parapet fire.      Bolts ricochet

all around Little John and Fanny.

ON SCAFFOLD

Wulf guards the steps, beating back all comers.

ON SCENE

Aslan evades the charging Chieftain. Drop-kicks a

soldier, takes his sword, and whirls back at the

Chieftain. His blows have no effect on the Scot's black

armor.

The Sheriff rears his horse... hooves flail.. knocking

Will to his knees. The Sheriff lunges... Desperate, Will

grasps the sword, ignoring the pain... a tug of war.

Blood pours from Will's hands, where the blade cuts in.

He suddenly lets go... Nottingham topples from his

horse. Will leaps on him.

CONTINUED:

The Sheriff's men drag Will off before he can choke him.

Raging, Nottingham climbs to his feet. Will is held by

four men.

He drives his sword repeatedly, insanely, into Will's

belly.

He finally drops... Nottingham heads for the castle.

Robin attempts to follow. He swings from the noose,

using the rope to vault over the surrounding soldiers.

As he lands, he is waylaid by one of the barons and his

men.

The Chieftain knocks Aslan down.   Aslan loses his sword.

Aslan spots one of John's arrows protruding from a dead

Celt's back. Scrambles over and tears it out.

He leaps... rams the arrow through the Chieftain's

mouthpiece... out the back of his neck. The Chieftain

grabs his helmet, trying to rip it off. He topples,

his life's blood gushing from both sides of his neck.

Aslan plants a foot on the slain warrior.

The onlookers are inspired. Grabbing weapons from fallen

soldiers, many join the fray.

CONTINUED:

Nottingham runs through the castle gate.   Angry peasants

pursue.

A guard winds down the giant gate.   Nottingham hurls him

aside.

He hacks at the ropes. The gate slices down like a

guillotine, pinning soldiers and peasants alike.

Fighting his way towards the gate, Robin sees   with dismay

that the portcullis is closed. Weakening, he    staves off

the redhead baron's vicious assault. Suddenly    peasants

are swarming over his attacker. The baron is    dragged off

and trampled down.

EXT. CASTLE PARAPET - DAY

Crossbow bolts fly. Little John ducks and weaves, while

spinning and firing at the men advancing at him from both

sides.

He can't shoot fast enough. As they descend on him, he

leaps from the battlements onto a soldier's back. Grabs

his sword.

He's backed up against a battlement, outnumbered five to

one.

EXT. CASTLE GATE - DAY

Robin and the others try in vain to lift the portcullis.

INT. CASTLE - MAIN CORRIDOR - DAY

The Sheriff marches through, issuing orders.

CONTINUED:

INT. CASTLE CHAMBER - DAY

Surrounded by flickering candles, Marian sits before a

mirror. In a white wedding gown. Her eyes faraway,

lifeless, in deep trance. Mortianna sensuously combs

the bride's hair with her taloned fingers. The

Sheriff's face appears in the reflection.

The guards roughly haul Marian to her feet.    She is

oblivious.

INT. CASTLE CHAPEL - DAY

Once, Christian, now blasphemously transformed   to the

practice of black magic. The crucifix on the    altar is

upside down. Marian stands before it, between    the

Sheriff and Mortianna. The Bishop is dragged    in.

Frightened. The BATTLE SOUNDS ECHO.

Mortianna screams and slashes her talons across the

Bishop's outstretched hands. Blood flows.

EXT. CASTLE GATE - DAY

Robin leaps onto Tuck's cart.

CONTINUED:

Robin snaps the reins, steering the rumbling cart across

the yard. Bouncing in the back, Tuck lights barrels.

FUSES smoke and CRACKLE.

Tuck jumps. Robin steers the wagon at the gate. At the

last second, he slashes the reins and leaps onto the

horse's back... The BARRELS EXPLODE! The portcullis is

blown to kingdom come.

Out of the smoke, Robin rides the old nag like a charger.

Leads his cheering, ragged fighters through the open gate.

INT. CASTLE KITCHENS - DAY

Fanny is chased into the kitchens by a vengeful soldier.

He grabs her and pushes her into the open cooking fire.

Desperate, she grabs a poker and smashes him over the

head. The servants stare in shock... A chef comes at

Fanny with a knife.

EXT. CASTLE FORECOURT - DAY

Hal and the others battle against huge odds. More

peasants join them, daring to take on the Sheriff's hated

men. Aslan's a whirlwind,  striking out in all

directions. Each blow for  a cause.

INT. CASTLE HALLWAYS - DAY

A door SLAMS back. Robin bursts through. Alone, against

three attackers. He swings a soldier around. Holds him

as a shield, using the man's own sword against his

companions. In seconds, all three are down and Robin is

off and running.

Down corridors, searching. Soldiers and armed servants

converge to block his way. Robin strikes, vaults, flings

statues. Up the stairs... topples a suit of armor down

on his pursuers.

CONTINUED:

The man refuses to speak. Robin looks up the corridor,

sees six men guarding the private chapel's arched door-

way.

He hurls the man aside... The armed guards charge him.

INT. DUNGEONS - DAY

Carrying a flaming torch, Tuck runs down the dark passage-

ways. Before him, an awesome sight... dozens of pitiful

men in cages. Suddenly he is confronted by the jailer.

A cruel behemoth of a man, carrying a spiked club.

WHAM! Tuck takes the lethal cudgel full in the chest.

Flies back.

INT. CASTLE CHAPEL - DAY

Sweating, fearful, the Bishop rushes through the service.

The chapel DOORS SHATTER inward.

Robin backs in, bloodied, fencing with four remaining

soldiers. He smashes one by swinging the heavy door into

him, hurtles a pew at another. He springs off another

pew, taking down a third.

Marian remains immobile. Mortianna moves to her side.

Robin is struck in the thigh. Like a vulture, the

Sheriff waits. Tiring, blood pouring from his leg, Robin

prepares to fight him.

CONTINUED:

He raises his sword to reveal its handle. A crucifix

sculpted into the hilt... Robin's father's sword.

He lunges. A savage, accomplished swordsman, with fire

in his eyes. Exhausted, Robin is driven back, parrying

desperately.

INT. DUNGEONS - DAY

Tuck picks himself up from the floor.    The jailer is

amazed.

Grinning, he pulls open his robes, revealing chest armor

... and a miniature powder keg. He holds it to his

flaming torch and tosses it to the jailer... Stupified,

the man catches the smoking bomb.

The KEG ERUPTS, blowing the jailer through a wall.

EXT. PARAPET - DAY

John is in deep trouble, but undaunted.

Someone attacks his assailants from the rear.    The tide

turns.

CONTINUED:

Wulf sends an attacker plummeting off the parapet.

EXT. CASTLE FORECOURT - DAY

A crossbow bolt strikes Hal between his shoulder blades.

He falls. The Sheriff's soldiers are regaining the

advantage. The peasants are giving up, dropping their

weapons.

He sees a familiar pair of holy sandals marching towards

him. Tuck leading a barefoot army. Dozens of ragged

prisoners, armed with chains and torture implements.

Dying, Hal manages a weak smile.

Tuck flails a chain at a Celt.

The man spins to strike back... freezes... grinning...

Aslan!

INT. CASTLE - KITCHENS - DAY

The chef raises his knife.    Fanny appeals to the whole

room.

CONTINUED:

A deadly pause. A woman cook dumps the giant wedding

cake right over the chef. Suddenly it's havoc. Flying

food and cutlery.

EXT. CITY SQUARE - DAY

A full-scale riot. The populace has turned. Into the

fray comes Fanny Little, leading a rabble of servants

and kitchen staff, fighting with pots, pans, brooms,

knives, hooks, and bedpans.

INT. CASTLE - CHAPEL - DAY

Nottingham slashes maniacally.   Robin is cornered,

weakening.

A blow slices Robin's arm. His sword flies from his

grasp. Nottingham gloats. Two of his men scramble back

to their feet. Robin is beat... a war cry! Aslan,

followed by Tuck.

Nottingham glances over... a split-second opportunity!...

Robin lashes out. Kicks the Sheriff in the gut, chops

down his sword hand. His father's sword clatters to the

floor.

Whirling swords in each hand, Aslan attacks the other

men. Robin pile-drives Nottingham into the wall.

CONTINUED:

The Bishop makes his escape.    Tuck blocks his path.

The Bishop surreptitiously draws a dagger from his robes.

A taloned hand grips a spear... Mortianna creeps up on

Aslan.

Aslan spins... too late. Screeching, Mortianna drives

the spear into Aslan's side. He cries out and slides to

the floor.

Nottingham uses Robin's distraction to regain his sword.

Back on the defensive, Robin tries to evade the blows.

Mortianna drags Marian out onto a balcony. Robin cannot

pursue. In acute pain, Aslan struggles to his feet.

Grasping the spear where it enters his side, he pulls with

all his strength.

The Bishop, concealed dagger in hand, approaches Tuck.

Without an eyeblink's pause, Tuck punches the Bishop so

hard, he flies back THROUGH a stained-glass WINDOW.

EXT. CASTLE - BALCONY - DAY

Mortianna hauls Marian against the battlements. Peers

down at the battle. She spins in shock at Aslan's voice.

CONTINUED:

He charges at her with the bloody spear. She screams

hideously as he thrusts it right through her chest.

Her madness is superhuman. With strength beyond all

reason, she crawls up the spear's shaft, forcing it

further through her body in her effort to get at him.

Clutching, screeching, hissing.

Her talons groping at his face, Aslan strains to the

last ounce of his will and heaves her over the battle-

ments. With an ear-splitting shriek, she plummets to

the ground.

INT. CASTLE CHAPEL - DAY

Sword raised, Nottingham has Robin backed against the

altar.

The blade comes whirring down... clang! It's blocked.

Robin has the altar's crucifix in his hand.

He swings it again, slamming Nottingham across the

temple.  The Sheriff hits the floor. Robin grabs his

father's sword. Raises it two-fisted. Nottingham tries

to squirm away.

He drives the sword down, like a stake, right through

Nottingham's heart. The man shudders, and is still.

Robin stands over him. Drained. Tuck rushes outside.

Kneels at Aslan's side. Robin spots Marian swaying on

the edge of the steep parapet.

EXT. CASTLE BALCONY - DAY

Robin grabs Marian, pulling her back. Carefully lifts

her face. Her lifeless eyes suddenly flash. She lashes

out. A spitfire.

CONTINUED:

EXT. CITY SQUARE - DAY

Robin emerges from the castle. Draped over his shoulder,

Marian is kicking and beating at him. He reaches the

fountain in the center of the square and tosses her into

the freezing water.

She leaps to her feet, yelling. Slips and tumbles back.

Water streams from her bridal gown. A crowd gathers,

enjoying the show.

She stumbles out of the fountain... and storms at him,

pounding her fists on his chest.

Robin grins at the crowd.

Marian looks about her... the chaotic aftermath of

battle. Reality gradually sinks in. She folds against

Robin's chest.

Little John arrives, his huge arms enfolding Wulf and

Fanny.

He spots a group kneeling beside the fallen body of

Aslan. His smile fades. He runs over. Cradles Aslan's

head.

CONTINUED:

Robin stands, Marian joins him. Around them cheering

grows, till the whole crowd is in unison.

INT. CATHEDRAL - DAY

A VOICE ECHOES from the vaulted roof.   A wedding is in

progress.

CONTINUED:

Tuck is performing the ceremony before the happy couple.

The husband draws back the bride's veil.    Robin and

Marian. They kiss... long.

They break   the embrace, turn to the congregation and

start down   the aisle. They pause at the front pew,

where KING   RICHARD and members of his court are sitting.

Robin bows,   Marian curtsies.

They continue down the aisle, past the smiling congre-

gation. Waiting by the door is Aslan. He and Robin

embrace.

Robin laughs.

EXT. NOTTINGHAM CATHEDRAL - DAY

WEDDING BELLS PEAL. Robin and Marian step out into the

sunlight. The crowd cheers. At a signal from Little

John, the ex-outlaws shoot flaming arrows into the sky...

FIREWORKS...

