PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                               2A.

MEET LENNY COLE(50s, dark, a little tubby), Mumbles and One

Two are here. Lenny's office is kitsch, he fancies himself

as a man of class.

They shake hands and sign the papers.

PINK Revision   -   6-19-07                                     3.

The Councilor is the phone to the Lawyer.      He speaks in hushed

tones clandestine like.

The Lawyer is on the phone with Mumbles and One Two.

One two is on the phone.      He looks over to Mumbles.

Lenny is looking out to One Two and Mumbles who are standing

outside his car looking very white. Lenny screams from the

back seat.

The window goes up and the car pulls off.      Lenny picks up

his phone, he dials huffing and puffing.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                  4.

He puts the phone down and looks over smiling.     MEET ARCHY

(Lenny's right hand man, 50s).

One Two and Mumbles are here, it's quiet until,..

FADE OUT.

Start CREDITS over sports arena entrance.

Lenny is being walked down a corridor, the      walls are lined

with photographs of old soccer stars.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                             4A.

On each side of him are two ESCORTS(ex-military types, heavy

looking). As they pass each door, we realize where ever he

is going, it has to be important. The ESCORTS talk in to

their microphones and to the different GUARDS on each door

way.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                5.

Every now and then we see the SPORTS ARENA in the back ground.

At last we reach the main door to the head office.

As the door is opened we see a small crowd of MEN in suits

gathered around a kind-looking MAN with bright blue eyes.

He nods a couple of times.

We CUT TO the front of Lenny who is clearly impressed, Mr.

Blue eyes pays him no attention. The small crowd of business

MEN shake hands and head to the door at which Lenny is waiting

patiently.

CLOSE UP on the back of URI (Russian Jew, 40s, slick, and

well groomed, he is our Mr. Blue Eyes) overlooking his sports

arena. We stay on the back of Uri's head while he is talking

to Lenny.

We CUT TO Uri unfazed, he just wants the figure.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                           5A.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                               6.

Still unfazed.

Pause while tension stews, then,...

Uri walks to the bar. Lenny follows trying to contain his

excitement, he's out of his league, a "welcome to the

billionaires club" look has struck him pink. Lenny passes a

PICTURE that's sat on an EASEL.

Uri is at the bar now. He has placed one large tumbler down

and is pouring a very very large measure out.

Still absorbed with the painting.

Lenny looks at the bar. Uri motions, there is a SMALL KEG

of WHISKEY on the bar and only one large glass.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                                 6A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                    7.

Lenny awkwardly starts to glug as Uri looks on.

Lenny enters the back seat of his car, Archy is waiting for

him in the back.

Lenny's panting.

TURBO (Lenny's driver) is fumbling around in the front seat

trying to get ice into a glass from the cooler that sits

beside him.

Lenny grabs the drink, desperately takes a big glug of water

and wipes his face.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                              7A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-19-07                                8.

Uri looks at VICTOR (Uri's right hand man).   They're looking

down at Lenny's disappearing car.

A man and woman sit on one side of a desk, MEET STELLA AND

BERTIE. Bertie is 45 and handsome in a dark posh sort of

way. Stella is 32, film star. Sitting opposite them are

two TAX MEN(civil servant types, grey, middle aged, a little

tubby and bald). There's a stand off.

There's a pause while the TAX MAN looks at his colleague.

His colleague gets up and shuts the door.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                                  9.

Bertie lifts out papers from his brief case.

The two TAX MEN look at each other, they're thinking the

same thought.

She looks relatively bored.

The phone rings, Bertie picks it up and answers.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                       9A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               10.

Introduction of the SPEELER. A location of all things

nefarious, a place to scam, buy and sell things illegal, and

play cards. MUMBLES and ONE TWO own the Speeler. MEET

Handsome Bob (mid thirties, part of the gang Errrh Handsome).

FRED THE HEAD(late 40s) he runs it with DOLLY(early 50s,

maternal figure, cleaner and chef). These are the main

players in a room of never less than TEN rarely no more than

TWENTY people.

We see in the background someone coming in. MEET COOKIE(late

30s, slicked back, black hair), his look is a bit of a parody.

One Two, who has been on the phone finishes his call.    He

looks over to Mumbles.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                      10A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                              11.

Stella's here admiring an abstract picture of nothingness.

One Two sits next to her.

They walk down the corridor.

PINK Revision    -    6-20-07                               11A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               12.

She passes an envelope.

She see's a slight pause and look of concern from One Two.

She passes him an envelope.

He looks down at her shoes.

He watches her walk off, he likes her, she likes him.

Two guys are here counting money. MEET ROMAN and MICKEY,

two black Americans. (Mid 30s dressed very classy, with a

bit of an urban twist) They are in the managing game,

exploiting the talents of the English.

The sound of distant bass thudding through the walls can be

heard while Mickey is on the phone trying to do some kind of

business. A real ROCKER with long hair and good looks comes

walking in distressed.

WHITE Revision       -   6-6-07                              13.

There's a pause from the Rocker.

ROMAN looks up from his paper, having not got involved in

the slightest. Roman taps the paper he has been reading.

He reads out the headlines.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                   14.

On the tennis court we see the COUNCILOR(our man from the

beginning), who is playing tennis with TERRY THE INSTRUCTOR.

The Councilor is taking it seriously apart from the

distraction of JACKIE on the next door court. ARCHY is here

watching over the game and reading the paper, we see him

read an article and look a little moved. Lenny comes up

behind him and starts to read over his shoulder.

Archy looks a little shocked.     Lenny carries on like nothing

has happened.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                            14A.

Lenny walks into the bar and Archy moves on to the court.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               15.

The Councilor slyly looks over to Jackie, she looks back.

The Councilor is thinking explicit thoughts.

Nervous, the Councilor knows these thugs aren't shy.

Pause.   She looks sullen, stroppy and rude all at the same

time.

She turns away to hit a ball, the Councilor's heart skips a

beat.

Lenny is at the bar on his own looking at the papers and

picking at the nuts. In walks the Councilor with Archy, the

Councilor sits next to Lenny at the bar.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                          15A.

The Councilor looks a bit flustered.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                  16.

Lenny pulls out the plans and a leather pack of cigars.

Looking at the plans.

Lenny milks the silence while he lights his cigar, the

Councilor feels like a prick waiting, it goes on and on.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                           16A.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                                  17.

He puts the Dunhill lighter down on the plans.

He walks toward the door as Jackie is walking in, Lenny looks

slyly at her as they pass.

In the distance.

Lenny looks back to the Councilor.

CUT TO the bottom of the lighter, "THE COUNCILOR." Lenny

carries on walking and smiling.

It's the next morning, we SEE One Two running. Mumbles and

Handsome Bob pull up along side of him in their car. There

is a moment of pause while they admire One Two running along

side of them.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                                17A.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                              18.

Mumbles turns to Handsome Bob

One Two sprints off leaving them behind.

Lenny is pacing in a ladies dressing gown with long silk

socks. He can't sleep, he pours a large one, lights a cigar,

picks up the phone and dials.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                                19.

His feet go back up on the desk with confidence.

He suddenly stops. His eyes have spotted something scary,

the office chair disappears from under him, he takes the

phone, the lamp, and the ash tray with him to the floor.

He turns the receiver the right way round.

He stands fumbling and screaming, his scotch all over him.

Beat while panic sets in and Archy is saying something on

the other end.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                            19A.

Lenny's still pacing, a small gathering of tired looking

HOOLIGANS are lined up in Lenny's office.

Lenny is standing in front of the fire place smoking and

looking very anxious.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                                 20.

There is a bald spot above his head where a picture once

stood, a picture light illuminates an clearly empty space.

He is horrified by the stupidity of the question.

He stomps off to bed.

DANNY slaps him with the back of his left hand.       Archy's not

happy - it was the wrong hand.

DANNY slaps him again, it's weak.

DANNY slaps him again, BANDY takes it good. Archy huffs and

goes over to slap him proper, SLAP! Bandy's disappeared

into another dimension.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                            20A.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                               21.

Mumbles, Handsome Bob, and One Two are standing here dressed

as security guards. Handsome Bob is watching over the car

that is waiting for the TWO ACCOUNTANTS to come out of the

back door of the warehouse. One Two and Mumbles are to the

side.

One Two see's the door open and makes a move. Two ACCOUNTANTS

come out of the back door, while in route they click their

central locking open on the car waiting. One Two is already

on them as the ACCOUNTANTS go to open their car door.

He flashes the gun in his belt. The ACCOUNTANTS are too

shocked to even know what is going on.

The ACCOUNTANTS see the gun, but still look for a way out.

Mumbles meets them with another gun.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                              21A.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                               22.

The ACCOUNTANTS do as they are told. One Two and Mumbles

get into the car, calm as you like. One Two, starts the

engine, but he can't find reverse. There is a crunching

sound from the car, the accountants stop and look round.

One Two puts down the window.

The ACCOUNTANTS come back.

One Two struggles, then finds the gear.

The Accountant has made his away back to the car.

One Two goes through the motions getting ready to hit the

accountant without actually being able to do it.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                            22A.

One Two wheels spins out of there.

Mumbles and One Two take off driving.

Quickly changing the subject.

Uri is walking around looking over one his sites, he's

entertaining a corporate gathering of MEN all in suits and

hard hats.

We can SEE VICTOR (Uri's right hand man) in the background

looking anxious.

Uri walks over to VICTOR.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                               23.

Victor leans in and whispers to Uri.    After 15 seconds Uri

leans back.

Stella is here again looking at the abstract pictures on the

wall. One Two joins her, he's got a largish Louis Vuitton

with the money and her twenty percent in it.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                        23A.

She turns and walks away, he looks slyly.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                24.

Handsome Bob is driving.

One Two picks up his phone and starts to dial.

Someone picks up at the other end of the phone.

Turbo is driving Archy, who is on the phone.

Archy's phone beeps - he has an incoming call.

Archy switches calls.

Lenny is pacing, he's on the phone.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                              24A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                              25.

Lenny's phone beeps - he has an incoming call.

He switches calls.

The Councilor is on his mobile, speaking in hushed tones.

He puts the phone down.

We CUT back to Archy in the car.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                            25A.

Archy gets out of the car and on to the street which is packed

with theater goers.

WHITE Revision       -   6-6-07                             26.

He has seen someone he knows, a dodgy looking ticket seller

GARY moves between the people.

Archy knocks on window of massive American 4x4. The window

comes down, savage noises emanate from the interior, a massive

black bald head turns, MEET TANK very street, very soft spoken

and very articulate. He's sitting next to a SHAVAWN a street

girl.

She disappears.

He presses the remote, the sound goes up so all we can hear

is the sound of spears on shields.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                                 27.

The sound of screaming and death is penetrating.

Tank flicks the pause button.

All the boys are sitting around playing cards. The buzzer

goes, buzzzzzzzzzzz, Fred answers the intercom.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                             27A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               28.

He presses the button and walks back to the group.

In the background we see the door open and in comes two

thieving SCOTSMEN, they are selling fur coats.

Our thieves move over to the table. MEET our cocky Scotsmen

MALCOLM and his partner in crime PAUL. Malcolm drops his

bags and starts to get busy. He's got a strong Scottish

accent that has been influenced by last nights crack for

dinner and two large whisky's for breakfast.

He coughs nervously as the boys look on dead pan.    He sees

Dolly.

We see Paul who's obviously completely geared out of his

nut, he's trying to squeeze in to the stolen grey wolf fur

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                          28A.

coat. It's far too small and the fur stops half way up his

arms, it's not possible to do the buttons up.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               29.

He downs the water without it touching the sides.

If Paul doesn't sit down, he's gonna fall down. He stumbles

into the card table on his way to a seat, knocking drinks

and cards everywhere. Everyone protests.

He jumps up wearing the most ridiculously oversized fur coat

and matching hat you have ever seen.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                  30.

He starts to do a slow spin, at which point WE SEE a large

white stipe running down the furs back.

Everyone thinks its very fuckin funny.     The laughter is

interrupted only by the buzzer.

Buzzzzzzzzzz, Fred goes to answers the buzzer.

Cut to Fred at the buzzer.

Back to the table, everyone's ears prick up at the name.

Malcolm pauses before he panics, he can tell something is

up.

Everyone starts tucking their money into their pockets.

Fred makes his way back to the table. He speaks to Malcolm

and Paul.

Malcolm knows this is a sign to go.

The two Scotsmen race in their fur coats toward the back

door. IN WALKS Archy with Danny, the crew continue their

card game.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                             30A.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                                 31.

Pause while the boys carry on playing cards.

One Two slowly kicks it out from under the table. Archy

leans over to take the bag and One Two sticks a few notes in

his pocket.

Archy turns and heads out - he's smiling and mutters to

himself.

Uri has got some serious stink boat gin palace on the River

Thames. He's entertaining Stella.

He smiles, she is smart, he fancies her.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                       31A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               32.

He nods.

Slightly uncomfortable

Pause, she's dead pan and not giving anything away.

Pause.

There is a pause while Uri is slightly lost for words. Then

he slams the table in excitement and looks up at Victor who

is standing in the distance.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                           32A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                33.

Pause.

She huffs and puffs.

He puts his hand on top of hers, just before she pulls it

away he takes his off.

Tank is standing in front of Archy.

Archy leans back to hear what Tank is about to tell him.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                  34.

Lenny walks into the warehouse where we see TWO SLOANES (posh

kids, 20s) strapped to a pair of chairs with weights on the

bottom. There are large leather belts wrapped around them.

Archy grabs a hook attached to an electric winch and attaches

it to their leather belts.

He presses the green button and a hatch in the floor opens.

The TWO SLOANES are lowered into the river protesting.

Handsome Bob's got the long face on.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                                34A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               35.

Handsome Bob isn't impressed.

Pause for a concerned thought from One Two.

There is a pause from Handsome Bob.

Pause. A little look from One Two like "Oh you're taken the

piss", then a realization that he isn't. The brakes are

slammed on and the car comes to a screeching halt. One Two

is out before you know it, screaming through the windshield.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                     35A.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                                   36.

Bob's now inconsolable sitting in the car.       One Two feels

bad,...he catches himself.

One Two is back in the car, he's trying to calm Handsome.

The TWO SLOANES have been brought back up and are covered in

shit and cray fish, they are half drowned.

Archy rips the tape off their mouths at the same time.

This means something to Lenny.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                                   37.

Lenny's face contorts with anger.

The TWO SLOANES scream in horror.

The tape is put back over their mouths.      They're struggling

to get free.

Archy looks at Lenny, there is a PAUSE for a while.         They

both feel uncomfortable.

Lenny's red as a beetroot.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                                 37A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                  38.

WE CUT BACK TO TEN YEARS AGO. Cut to a shot of a 12 year

old BOY with a cut under his eye singing "Bank Robber" by

The Clash in to the mirror. He's wearing just his boxer

shorts and enjoying himself, he's gonna be a rock star.

From behind WE SEE his bedroom door open, but the music is

to loud for the boy to have heard the entrance. We SEE Lenny,

ten years younger entering, we can tell via the body language

that he is irritated. He pauses then walks up suddenly

slapping the boy very hard across the side of the face.

It's enough to knock him out, the boy goes down - shot like

a bullet out of a barrel. The red hand then slaps the stereo

off.

We CUT BACK to present and MEET JOHNNY STORY (think Pete

Doherty meets Richard Ashcroft) or Posh John, posh, good

looking, 25, alarmingly skinny and pale in a grey sort of

way.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                           38A.

He's still listening to "Bank Robber" dancing round with a

couple of toy guns. His mate, who is not so posh, MEET PETE

is sporting a balaclava at present. They've been cracking

it up and the paraphernalia is everywhere.

WHITE Revision   -    6-6-07                               39.

Johnny is standing in front of the mirror next to the mirror

is the painting and oh he loves it. Pete rolls up his

balaclava up and slams the stereo off.

He does a quick moon walk, he's taking the piss.

Rough old bar, there are a couple of OLD WASTERS staggering

around in the distance. Johnny and Pete have now got drinks

in their hands.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                               39A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                40.

Johnny helps himself to some WASTERS drink at the bar for a

quick refreshment. Understandably, the WASTER doesn't look

happy and his three FRIENDS don't look happy either.

Johnny gives the WASTER and his FRIENDS the masturbation

signal without even bothering to look at them.

The WASTER grabs a bottle from the bar ready to take some

action. Johnny grabs a pencil from his top pocket, he holds

it out like it's a knife. It's almost a joke.

The WASTER is lost. Johnny is not physically scary, he's

only scary because he's quite clearly mad. He looks like

Robert Deniro in Taxi driver, mad as mars, he catches himself

in the mirror, he likes what he sees. Ciggy falling out of

his mouth, he sort of takes the piss out of himself, smiles

"tough Johnny," the WASTER backs off he doesn't want junkie

madness.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                              40A.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                                   41.

Johnny sits back down next to Pete.

Pete starts to lift up his shirt.

He looks over and see's Pete has got the most horrific scars

on his back. Johnny notice's them and stops in his tracks.

Johnny walks back over to Pete and very tenderly touches his

back, it feels horrible and bobbled.

He pulls out a ciggy.     Pete takes it.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                               41A.

Pause.   Pete looks at Johnny,...Johnny starts to smile.

Mickey and Roman's SECRETARY walks in.

WHITE Revision    -    6-6-07                               42.

The office door opens wider, in walks Lenny, Archy and BOYS.

Lenny pops it in his mouth, chews a while and spits out the

middle. He turns to face ROMAN and MICKEY, he does not look

happy.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                              43.

Pause.

There is a look of confusion from Roman and Mickey.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                44.

One Two walks into the speeler, he looks like a lost man.

He looks over at the guys sitting around talking, they stop

and look up.

The phone rings in the back ground, Dolly answers it.

One Two turns a little nasty.

From behind we see Handsome Bob and Mumbles walk into the

Speeler. Handsome Bob sneaks up and put his hands over One

Twos eyes.

One Two spins round in major shock, he see's Bob and he

doesn't like it. All the boys look on like One Two's going

to hug him. He doesn't.

Everyone's in shock.    Dolly walks over and interrupts.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                               44A.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                            45A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                46.

Silence.

Pause. Lenny milks the moment and after a few seconds of

mock thought, he speaks.

Long pause while Lenny scrambles for an excuse.

Lenny enters the car looking a little peachy.     Archy takes

one look and grimaces.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                               46A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               47.

Archy looks a little worried.

Turning very nasty.

Archy thinks his boss is going mad, but he doesn't let on.

The boys are still reeling from the news that Johnny is

Lenny's son.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                              47A.

YELLOW Revision   -   6-20-07                            48.

The door opens Mumbles, One Two, Cookie, and Fred stand there.

A man, TOM in black tie opens the door, he looks posh and is

in his boxers.

He looks the boys up and down.

He offers it to One Two who accepts. Tom pulls it back at

the last minute and greases his hair back.

Tom disappears inside where we see a mass of extremely drunk

TOFFS running around going wild in black tie.

YELLOW Revision    -   6-20-07                           48A.

He is talking about drinks.

YELLOW Revision   -   6-20-07                         48B.

Stella approaches.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                                 53.

The BARMAN reaches for a pack of cigarettes.

Johnny puts a large note on the bar.

He leans into the bar and shuts one eye.

The BARMAN is left with his mouth open. Johnny walks to the

piano to drink his Scotch. There are a few beer mats on the

piano, Johnny wipes the mats off with a glide of his hand

and they fall to the floor. He raises the lid, coughs,

composes himself, and extends his hands through his sleeves.

He hits the first note and takes his scotch down in one. A

few of the old PUNTERS turn around. Johnny starts to play

the most beautiful classical music with his eyes shut. Pete

walks in, approaches Johnny and sits with him. He likes it

when he plays. Johnny doesn't even need to see him to know

that he's there.

We SEE the pack of cigarette's on the piano.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                          53A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                                59.

There is a long line of people outside Roman and Mickey's

venue. Johnny and Pete hustle their way through the crowd,

the BOUNCER pulls them up.

Johnny goes for his money, but the BOUNCER pushes him on.

WE CUT to the BAND smashing away.

The BOUNCER is holding Johnny and Pete back.

Johnny pushes the BOUNCERS arm away. The BOUNCER retorts

with a slap round the cheek. Pete won't stand for that, he

goes for the BOUNCER in a pathetic junkie way.

The BOUNCER smashes a big bouncer punch right on Pete's nose.

Pete shoots back past Johnny and lays in the road, the line

starts clapping.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                                60.

Roman is on the phone with Archy, we cut to them mid

conversation.

Johnny stands over Pete, he notices Johnny's face. Pete's

seen this before, he's changing like a madmen about to

explode.

We hear the BAND is starting to get louder and faster.

Johnny makes for the BOUNCER with menace, the BOUNCER looks

at Johnny coming and smiles.

Johnny   keeps coming, he's tiny in comparison, the BOUNCER

stands   and waits - he's ready. Johnny gives the old two

finger   poke to the eyes, the BOUNCER screams in pain and

swings   into the ether

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                             60A.

We CUT TO THE BAND who is going mad.

Johnny pulls out his signature pencils.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                                 61.

Without a hesitation Johnny sticks the pencils into the

BOUNCERS leg, it's quite nasty. The BOUNCER stumbles forward

like a wounded elephant, it's David and Goliath. Johnny's

smart, he knows how to do this properly.

Mickey walks back to Roman.

CUT TO THE BAND going even madder - the crowd is loving it.

Johnny picks up a trash bin lid and starts giving it to the

bouncer. The crowd dances around this wounded beast.

Mickey looks at the security camera and sees chaos.

The BAND is still going when all of a sudden the lights get

pulled, we cut to black.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                              61A.

Roman and Mickey have come to find Cookie. He is with a

GROUP of people having dinner including Fred the Head. We

cut into him mid joke.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                                 62.

The table laughs, Roman and Mickey approach.

This story will be illustrated appropriately, including a

little smoking devil holding the burning crack.

PINK Revision    -   6-19-07                                63.

PINK Revision   -   6-19-07                                  64.

We SEE inside the Range Rover where there is a DRIVER with

our TWO CHECHNYANS. The CHECHNYANS have suitcases handcuffed

to their wrists. They speak in their native tongue.

CHECHNYAN 1 pulls up his sleeve to reveal a massive tattoo.

His arm is filled with slash marks on it.

He unbuckles his trousers and shows a massive gouge in his

thigh.

CHECHNYAN 2 pulls up his trouser leg to reveal massive scars

on his shin.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                             67A.

WHITE Revision   -   6-6-07                               68.

As they get out of the car, WE SEE CHECHNYAN 1 has now made

his way down the street. He is punch drunk with mace in his

eyes, but extracts a machine gun from under his jacket. The

boys freeze they are fucked, nowhere to go, but CHECHNYAN 1

is blinking profusely he can't be sure where they are. He

lets off a magazine into the manikins next to our boys who

all hit the deck. The magazine runs dry, CHECHNYAN 1 dips

into his belt to extract a fresh one. Mumbles see's his

opportunity, he grabs a golf club that is standing next to

him, runs at CHECHNYAN 1 and takes a massive swipe at his

head. CHECHNYAN 1 goes down, but he has already put in a

new magazine. Mumbles is still carrying the cases, One Two

is attached to his arm.

A baseball smashes into Mumbles face, he goes down, and he's

out. CHECHNYAN 2 has appeared carrying a metal baseball

bat. One Two picks up the machine gun.

CHECHNYAN 2 will not stop, he just keeps on coming.

CHECHNYAN 2 keeps coming, One Two doesn't want to do it but

he has to. He lets off twenty three bullets into the

CHECHNYAN 2's chest, the CHECHNYAN is knocked back and

disappears over the mezzanine. One Two is in shock, he has

never killed a man. He stands there numb.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                        68A.

Pause.   One Two is still in shock.

WHITE Revision    -   6-6-07                             69.

They make their way to the entrance. There is a crowd of

PEOPLE gathered, a great "ohhhhhhhh" goes up.

Beep. Beep. A car slowly makes it way through the crowd.

It pulls up and the boys pile in, what's left of them. They

pull away from the sports shop.

Bob looks in his mirror, he can see a gun being raised, there

is someone on the trunk.

He slams on the brakes. CHECHNYAN 2 goes flying over the

roof, but stops himself hitting the road by perforating the

hood with his massive knife. He proceeds to perforate the

wind screen with another knife that he extracts and (because

of laminate) starts to saw through the wind screen. The

boys are in horror.

One Two gets caught in a head lock by CHECHNYAN 2, they

struggle. Mumbles hits the CHECHNYAN from behind with a car

Jack and CHECHNYAN 2 goes down again. One Two's eyes have

just about come back.

The crew split in DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS. Bob takes the cases

and plucks some poor bystander out of their car and takes

off. Mumbles disappears another way. CHECHNYAN 2 is up and

follows One Two - terminator style, a foot chase begins.

One Two, split from the group and being pursued, jumps over

a wall.

PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                           69A.

One Two has ended up on a railway track. He turns back, why

should CHECHNYAN 2 chase him, he hasn't got the money. But

no, CHECHNYAN 2 is over the fence, bullet proof vest flapping

in the wind, and coming after him. One Two finds his strength

this is his world, the world of the runner - he's off down

the tracks.

WHITE Revision    -    6-6-07                                70.

The pair of them are bleeding profusely, they're bashed to a

pulp, but they have still got a running sprit. The run goes

on and on. CHECHNYAN 2 has ripped off his jacket, we can

see his massive scar covered torso dripping in blood and

sweat, he seems unstoppable. One Two gets confident and

starts to run backwards egging CHECHNYAN 2 on, CHECHNYAN 2

is a good runner, but not good enough. Deep hate fills his

eyes as One Two makes a fool out of him, CHECHNYAN 2 will

remember this man. One Two is taking complete liberties, he

almost stops and waits until CHECHNYAN 2 has caught up to

him and then he tears off, the CHECHNYAN keeps coming.

One Two see's in the distance a tiny moped approaching from

a distance, its CHECHNYAN 1 who completely out sizes the

machine. However, he's moving and it's moving faster than

One Two. One Two ducks off the tracks and over a wall, the

moped gets nearer. At least when he gets over the wall, the

moped won't follow right? One Two's over. He can hear the

moped on the other side, One Two looks over his shoulder he

can see the moped being lifted over the wall. "Oh shit."

This is where One Two's "zone" comes into play. He drifts

in to a place that he can not be disturbed and he runs and

runs and runs. Up, down, through and in.

We see Mumbles has caught up with One Two along side the

tracks. He is on a motorbike that he has stolen.

One Two jumps on the back and they speed away leaving our

Chechnyan's behind.

We are on another one of Uri's construction sites, Lenny is

here to do the money exchange, again.

Archy nods like an idiot.

PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                                 70A.

