MAIN TITLE SEQUENCE (TO BE DESIGNED)

FADE IN:

Absolute quiet. SOUND bleeds in. Low level b.g.

NOISES of Enterprise bridge, clicking of relays,

minor electronic effects. We HEAR A FEMALE VOICE.

INT. ENTERPRISE BRIDGE

As the ANGLE WIDENS, we see the crew at stations;

(screens and visual displays are in use): COMMANDER

SULU at the helm, COMMANDER UHURA at the Comm Con-

sole, DR. BONES McCOY and SPOCK at his post. The

Captain is new -- and unexpected. LT. SAAVIK is young

and beautiful. She is half Vulcan and half Romulan.

In appearance she is Vulcan with pointed ears, but her

skin is fair and she has none of the expressionless

facial immobility of a Vulcan.

Breaks up.

Tactical on big screen.

On screen: Enterprise approaches the stricken vessel.

On screen we see the approach  of the Klingon vessels,

they are dark and sinister.

The ALARM SOUNDS.

Screen verifies this. Saavik makes an agonized choice.

The image flops: more Klingons approach. They FIRE

photon torpedoes.

Sulu does his best, but Enterprise is hit; Sulu is

hurled from his station, and Bones hurries to him.

The bridge takes another hit -- a big one. In its wake

there is a second electrical EXPLOSION along the communi-

cations panel. Uhura falls from her station. Bones

rushes to her side amid the smoke and alarms.

Another hit: reverberating flashes of spark and flame

on the bridge. Spock dies. Bones comes to him, but

even as he coughs his way through the smoke, a final

hit and Bones falls. The room is smoke filled and a

shambles. Saavik looks about in shock.

Saavik digests this for a painful moment. Then, touch-

ing a comm button:

There is a loud CLANGING and  --

The side walls of the "bridge" slide apart, revealing

a lighted room beyond. Through the opening strides

KIRK. He stops, surveys the shambles, and shakes his

head.

Sulu awakens with a grin. Uhura straightens herself

demurely. The Trainees head toward the distant room,

Spock rises and leaves. Bones remains on the floor,

head propped in his hand, whimsically.

Bones rolls his eyes and rises. Kirk sees Saavik who

has not moved.

She stays at attention.

He leaves. They look at each other.

HOLD ON Saavik.

Kirk rounds the corner and sees Spock, leaning against

the wall.

Spock almost smiles.

They walk together.

He lifts the book.

Kirk looks around uncomfortably, overlaps:

Spock studies him --

They are old friends --

He steps into a turbo elevator. The doors close as

Spock watches, wiping the scene.

In f.g. is the U.S.S. RELIANT, an older, somewhat

battered starship of the ENTERPRISE class, with a

slightly different configuration. Reliant approaches

an inhospitable-looking yellow planet: CETI ALPHA V

Well-aged and distinctive. The usual compliment of

officers and crew. CAPTAIN CLARK TERRELL, about 45,

soft spoken and in good shape, but somewhat laconic.

Behind Terrell, surveying the data screen is COMMANDER

CHEKOV, aged some, but still boyish.

Forward screen:

Terrell rises and crosses to Chekov.

A functional cluster of modules serve as a scientific

complex, a futuristic White Sands, orbiting a small

barren plantoid in b.g.: Regula.

Big but deserted except for Carol, in contact with

Reliant. Surrounded by equipment clearly meant for

many workers, CAROL MARCUS is in her early forties,

attractive and intelligent. Static mars the trans-

missions.

On the monitor: Terrell and Chekov, looking hopeful.

Carol sighs as the image fades, not happy.

Carol walks through the labyrinthine complex with

DAVID, her son, a bright young scientist of twenty.

He is good looking and humorous.

Silence.

They walk past the CAMERA, their VOICES FADING.

HOLD ON the empty corridor.

Kirk reads the novel, trying to focus. His flat befits

an Admiral and a loner with few possessions, except

a collection of antiques.

WE HEAR A SOFT BONG.

Startled, Kirk lowers the book and pushes a button.

The door slides open and Bones enters. He carries two

packages, one of them wrapped in brown paper.

With a flourish, he pulls out a bottle of blue

liquid.

He takes the bottle and pours; continues talking.

Kirk starts to obey.

They drink. The package is opened: a pair of gold

"Ben Franklin" half-glasses. (N.B.: Romulan Ale is

an INSTANT DRUNK: both men react.)

He toasts. Kirk is unsure how they work.

An awkward silence.

Pause. Kirk pours another drink.

They look at each other.

orbiting Ceti Alpha V.

VOICES OVER indicate the transporter room is ready.

A YELLOW PLANET, in constant SWIRLING HURRICANE WINDS

OF SAND. Terrell and Chekov materialize. Their VOICES,

filtered, are hard to make out.

With the TRICORDER to guide them, they set out...

The difficult search, the men leaning into the wind --

is ahead of Chekov on a slight rise --

Terrell waves him frantically forward. As Chekov

moves up, we rise with him to the top of the ridge and

look down.

A RUINED SERIES OF MAN-MADE STRUCTURES, half buried in

sand. They look at each other in consternation. Chekov

is worried; something about all this is familiar.

They descend towards the structures, now seen to be the

wreckage of some sort of space craft.

They pass but do not notice the FEDERATION LOGO, half

buried next to their feet.

As Chekov looks at the porthole, a face suddenly looks

back! It is the face of a CHILD! The Apparition

scares the daylights out of Chekov -- and us. He

screams.

He comes clumsily over --

He points. The porthole is empty.

He points and they go into the airlock.

Terrell and Chekov enter, dumbfounded. THEIR POV.

Someone lives here -- there are beds, food, all jury-

rigged -- but no people. Terrell checks a monitor.

He takes off his helmet; Chekov likewise.

They wander as they talk, picking up objects that be-

speak a fairly sophisticated ad hoc environment: a

laboratory in one hold; a kitchen; A LARGE SAND TANK

filled with disgusting CETI EELS.

ABRUPTLY A SOUND -- They start: CHILD'S GURGLE.

They start looking. They enter a new chamber --

On its side in the sand: the walls are now the floor,

etc. All in crookedness -- like its owner. On the

floor, smiling at them (i.e., the wall) is a BABY.

Tentatively they come over to it, looking around --

Lethal-looking odd swords on one wall, a bookshelf;

CAMERA PANS by 20th Century volumes; MOBY DICK, KING

LEAR, THE HOLY BIBLE -- and a seat belt dangling with

the name on it --

Chekov mouths the words, softly at first, then aloud --

Chekov runs, tries to get his helmet on, tries to drag

Terrell --

Terrell catches his urgency --

Terrell and Chekov emerge, helmeted, then stop dead.

A RING OF SUITED FIGURES has them surrounded.

Mr. Beach, the duty officer, stands looking at Ceti

Alpha V on the forward screen.

Nothing.

Terrell and Chekov are held by FOUR STRONG MEN.

They seem to be waiting. One of the men is JOACHIM.

Out of the airlock steps a tall masked figure. A

moment of suspense as Terrell and Chekov watch, terri-

fied. The mask is peeled back.

KHAN is startled by the recognition; comes over and

examines Chekov and Terrell.

The wind howls in the silence. When Khan turns, his

eyes are filled with tears.

He recovers his poise and returns to them --

They don't answer. Khan goes over to Terrell and, WITH

ONE HAND, LIFTS HIM INTO THE AIR --

Terrell gasps, stays silent --

He lets go; Terrell falls with a thud --

He goes over to the tank and dips a kind of strainer in,

pulling out TWO CETI EELS -- wriggling items --

As he speaks, Khan dumps an eel in each of their helmets;

he swirls the helmets around as though he were mixing

martinis --

At a sign, the helmets are slammed down. As the muffled

shrieks are heard from within, the eels crawl across

the faces of Chekov and Terrell; with unerring in-

stincts they head for the ears of the two hapless men.

There is some atrocious pain as they enter -- then

dazed calm.

No answer -- Beach makes up his mind --

He heads for the door but is stopped by:

Fractional pause.

Beach and Kyle look at each other.

A SPACE SHUTTLE moving toward us.

A new composite. Bones, Sulu, Uhura and Kirk -- who

sits, reading. Through the windows we can see the

approach to the starship ENTERPRISE. Kirk looks up,

nods. Sulu activates a comm button.

Kirk looks up from his book as Sulu sits next to him.

Sulu laughs.

The shuttle approaches the mammoth airstrip. As we

near the ship, a few WORK CREWS IN SPACE flit about

her hull, working.

The shuttle makes its way to the Docking Lock of the

mother ship and settles in place.

A reception group awaits, led by Captain Spock. Saavik

stands at his side, in company of the Trainee crew.

Also present: CHIEF ENGINEER MR. SCOTT and members of

his staff in their distinctive uniforms.

The group comes to attention.

The doors open. Kirk and his staff are piped aboard

by an electronic version of the boatswain's tradi-

tional whistle. Kirk salutes the Federation symbol

and steps forward to exchange salutes with Spock.

Saavik stiffens slightly -- humor is not her forte.

Uncomfortable, Scotty exchanges a glance with Bones --

He stops before a BRIGHT-FACED FOURTEEN-YEAR OLD, stand-

ing so stiff he looks like he'll break -- in an

engineer's uniform.

A big salute. Kirk is amused, returns the salute.

He moves, followed by his staff.

Kirk and party leave. CAMERA PUSHES IN ON SPOCK AND

SAAVIK.

Saavik is humbled.

The inspection party dwarfed by the size. Silence as

Kirk looks around, runs a finger for dust, etc.

Scotty, his team and Preston, stand at attention.

FEATURING power room separated by glass from the rest

of the facilities. Bones, Sulu, Uhura, and some train-

ees watch as Kirk inspects one console, clearly the

responsibility of the bursting Midshipman Preston.

The repressed grins of the others, and a smile on Scotty's

face tell Preston he's being had. He stops, confused.

Approving laughter. Kirk looks amused.

He moves off, followed by Preston, who gives one last

salute as Kirk leaves, followed by Bones.

They step into the Turbo Lifts.

The real one, no doubt! CAMERA REVEALS the maze detail:

winking and blinking displays, all HANDS at station,

a hum of activity, Uhura and Sulu in familiar chairs,

Spock is in the Captain's chair, Saavik in the First

Officer's position. Kirk and Bones stand towards the

rear.

Saavik punches data into her console.

The dock slowly folds away from the ship.

Saavik watches instruments, punches data in response.

Spock casts a glance at Kirk, then, to Saavik:

Kirk tries to conceal his reaction. Spock enjoys it.

Saavik settles herself in the chair, looks again at

the console -- Spock looks at Kirk.

They all stifle their responses. Kirk is like a father

watching his kid drive the family car for the first time.

as the ship slowly and majestically leaves the dock.

Activity hums.

Kirk starts to say something, but doesn't. Bones looks

at him.

Kirk shakes his head, takes a breath --

The ship clears the dock and begins heading into space.

Kirk quietly lets his breath out.

Spock turns inquiringly to Kirk.

Spock digests this with a slight smile.

She gathers speed into the vastness of space.

moving towards us, in opposition to the previous shot,

close enough for us to read her markings.

Khan occupies the Captain's chair. We PULL BACK: the

crew of the RELIANT has been replaced by Khan's fol-

lowers in their odd-looking clothes.

At the helm is Joachim, Khan's lieutenant. He is in the

largest and brightest of Khan's group. Terrell sits in

the First Officer's chair, Chekov at the Comm Console.

Their behavior is normal, save for subtle hesitation,

symptoms of their mind-controlled state.

Huge and busy. Among the scientists going about their

tasks are JEDDA, a Deltan; MARCH, thin intense;

MADISON, black, easy going. They are all young and

earnest. Carol and David huddle over a computer

console.

Jedda at the Comm Console overlaps.

Carol moves forward as the others close in.

Buttons punched; the screen ebbs, flows and crackles

on. ON SCREEN is CHEKOV.

Pleased reaction from the scientists.

Consternation in the lab. David is livid -- the words

"Bullshit" are overlapped  by his mother.

Chekov hesitates, seems to be listening to someone off

the monitor.

Sensation in the lab.

He starts to press a button; Carol pushes his hand

away and communicates herself.

The image fades.

Chekov, in a matched cut, turns away as CAMERA WIDENS

TO REVEAL KHAN by his side. He is charming.

Khan smiles, more charming than ever as we move in.

Everyone is talking at once.

Silence.

Carol reacts: this is certainly true.

They split off in different directions as ordered.

In no particular hurry.

Kirk waits for the Turbo Lift, which opens at last. As

he gets in --

Kirk holds and Saavik dashes in. She is surprised to

see him.

Kirk nods, the doors close. There is an uneasy forced

intimacy between them.

She reaches out and touches a button. The lift stops.

She stares.

She's a laugh a minute. Kirk pushes the button; the

elevator starts.

She studies him, considering. No doubt about it, the

attraction is mutual and she has no idea how to handle

it.

The lift stops and the doors open.

He reacts to them. Saavik exits demurely.

Bones enters and the doors close. Kirk studies the

ceiling.

Kirk says nothing.

Awkward silence.

The elevator stops. Kirk leaves. The doors close.

Featuring VIEW SCREEN: A scramble of interference and

noise. A piece of Carol's VOICE breaks through now

and again as we PULL BACK revealing a frustrated Kirk.

Carol's face appears. The image will never be stable

for long; sometimes the sound will be covered.

But the picture is irrevocably scrambled now. Kirk

pounds the Comm in frustration.

cruising.

The activity is normal. The Turbo-Lift opens and Kirk

strides in. Bones and Saavik react to the following:

They look wonderingly. Kirk takes a breath --

Sulu does, and with a great thrust of energy --

The ship accelerates, and then, with an eye-filled

burst, whips ahead to warp speed, disappearing.

Spock is at meditation as Kirk enters quietly. Spock

looks up.

Spock raises an eyebrow --

Kirk smiles in bemused wonderment.

Spock inclines his head.

Kirk is moved. He starts to speak, can't -- finally:

Kirk's face tells us the wisdom of Spock's choice.

Floating quietly around the planet below. Tranquil

as we PUSH SLOWLY IN.

OVER we can hear, FILTERED, UHURA'S VOICE:

Featuring Spock and Uhura, as she keeps trying --

Spock considers, moves to Kirk.

Kirk looks at him, nods; rising now.

They start for the Turbo Lifts as Saavik reacts --

The screen is suddenly busy with coded read-outs and

then computer graphics of retina patterns. Then it

glows green. SECURITY CLEARANCE, CLASS 1 GRANTED.

More coded read-outs, a red line SECURITY SCAN, then

over it APPROVED, in green. Replaced by:

Carol appears, FACING CAMERA, not used to it. To one

side stands David and behind them, the lab.

(DNA ILM TAPE ACCOMPANIES, AD LIB)

react with wonder.

The tape becomes snowy and blinks off.

Kirk looks at Bones and Spock -- they are stunned.

The whoosh of the turbo doors and Kirk, Bones and

Spock assume their posts. Saavik stands next to Kirk's

chair.

Space; a tiny dot in the distance, growing larger.

Boring forward ominously.

Khan and his crew; no sign of Chekov and Terrell. On

Khan's screen, the Enterprise grows larger --

Visual of Reliant appears.

ALARMS SOUND. The lights on the bridge dim into the

soft reddish glow of battle illumination. ADDITIONAL

CREW troop in to man vacant consoles.

He steps to his station.

The two ships are very close, barely moving as they inch

toward each other.

Khan is half out of his seat, sweating with anticipation.

Computer graphics monitor: Cross-hairs on Enterprise.

BIG SCREEN (?)

He reacts to his blue-lit scope --

But the ENTIRE BRIDGE is ROCKED by a shock impact, some

of the crew sent flying.

Reliant firing phasers at Enterprise. A hit in the rear

of the engine room area, debris flying into the void.

An explosion rips through the facility, sending yellow-

ish green GAS hurtling down the long facility towards us.

Crewmen are hurled through the air, screaming.

roll closed, sealing off the damaged tail section,

SIRENS SHRIEKING!

terrified, scramble to get out amid the deadly yellow-

ish green smoke, the cries.

trying to rally them --

And he puts his own respirator on, as do some of the

veterans. Preston dons his respirator -- and stays.

The angle we saw during inspection. The trainees, in

panic amid the gas crawl over each other trying to get

out. They scramble over each other's shoulders in the

efforts to escape, screaming and shouting.

The bridge is slowly righting. Crew members getting

back to their stations. On speaker, we hear the CRIES

AND SHOUTS of the Engine Room.

Bones dashes out.

Scotty's voice is faint, drowned by the screams and

cries from a dozen intercom stations.

Uhura does. There is a dead silence. Then:

Behind, the crew chief and a few others work feverishly

in respirators. Scotty, in respirator, with a throat

mike which filters his voice.

ON SCREEN computer graphics, red flashing lights indi-

cate damaged areas. Spock steps up to Kirk evaluating

the display.

On VISUAL SCREEN, Photon torpedoes approach...

The bridge is shaken badly, screens go dark, fires spark

and erupt. ALARMS and SOUND full. Crew personnel try

to put out electrical fires, help the fallen --

circling Enterprise.

The glow of the O.S. screens and battle illumination

highlighting the passion in his eyes.

The firefighting continues.

There is a moment. Kirk looks around the battered

bridge, and his eyes meet Spock's, and Saavik's.

All eyes go to the SCREEN. After momentary visual

confusion, Khan's face appears, smiling --

We can see Reliant making a large arc as she prepares to

come back for another round.

Reliant continues her slow arc.

Reactions from Spock and Kirk.

Kirk turns from the screen --

Reliant, her arc completed, is coming back.

Kirk puts on his spectacles --

Spock nods; Kirk turns to the screen --

He turns from the screen again, softly:

They're all sweating.

followed by other signals.

Joachim punches frantically --

All monitors are haywire now that Enterprise is tapped

in. They search wildly for the right switch, but...

punching.

Enterprise fires at Reliant inflicting heavy damage.

A shambles -- debris flying; Khan knocked to the deck.

He struggles to his feet through wiring --

Khan calms as the other holds him; he breathes deeper.

Reliant turns away.

They watch on screen as Reliant hauls off.

The turbo doors whoosh open as Kirk reaches them.

Scotty stands there, tears streaming down his face;

he holds the body of Midshipman Preston. Both of them

are covered in blood. He sways into Kirk's arms as

the others rush forward.

The Enterprise, motionless, scars of battle showing.

The CREW, wearing respirators amid the motionless ball

of gas, work frantically at a dozen jobs, trying to put

things aright, splicing wires, etc. Some TRAINEES who

panicked are back.

making a final adjustment.

A TURBO WHINES and a great wind of suction pulls the

gas towards appropriate vents. The Crew Chief watches,

then yanks off his respirator; wipes his brow.

MANY CASUALTIES IN EVIDENCE. Kirk enters and LEADS

CAMERA THROUGH them; he has a word or two for men he

doesn't know by name. Kirk leads us to the operating

theatre, where Bones works over Preston. Scotty stands

by, his lips trembling. Preston opens his eyes, sees

Scotty and Kirk.

He dies. Pause. Scotty looks across the body at Kirk.

Kirk hits a wall intercom --

With an effort, he gets to his feet --

Squeezes his shoulder and limps off -- We NOW HEAR

the sound of impulse power taking effect.

Bones shrugs unhappily, looks at Preston.

He turns and leaves as Bones watches, looks again at

Preston.

Regula, the dead planet beyond.

Approaching. As she moves slowly PAST CAMERA, WE PAN

WITH her TO SEE that she is approaching the space lab.

Battle damage, some repaired, some not. The bridge is

filled with tension, all hands at station.

As before, Uhura's image, imploring a response.

During this, CAMERA HAS PANNED CLOSE AMONG the techni-

cal clutter. Then suddenly. SOUND -- eerie, frightening.

Our ears cannot place it... and before we can, it is gone

a warning.

He starts out. Bones stops him.

Saavik's gaze falters --

Kirk, Bones and Saavik head for the turbo doors.

CLOSER ANGLE now. The silence is ominous.

empty, except for the hums and crackles of abandoned

equipment. With a FAMILIAR SOUND, BONES, KIRK and

SAAVIK MATERIALIZE. All have phasers, communicators

and tricorders.

For a moment they look around, seeing emptiness. Like

being in a haunted house.

A WEIRD ECHO reverberates his cries.

They separate. Each begins to search.

She moves to the electronic and data area, examines the

consoles, the equipment, then settles for the data bank.

She starts keying sequences with the computer.

He shows signs of fear as he walks through the deserted

place, like a scuba diver exploring a cave. We want

him to go back.

A NOISE. Bones reacts with brave apprehension.

Rounding a corner, he starts: A RAT scuttles right in

front of him.

Bones sighs with relief and moves forward. We think

he's safe.

SUDDENLY SOMETHING FALLS RIGHT ON HIS FACE: an upside

down human ARM.

Kirk helps Bones cut down the last of the five BODIES

from where they were hanged, upside down.

Having recovered his composure, Bones examines the

corpses. We RECOGNIZE Madison, March, among others.

One is clearly the COOK.

Kirk looks around, despairingly --

WITH SAAVIK working with console. Something puzzles

her. She frowns, but a NEW SOUND distracts her. She

looks up and moves off.

A moan is heard. All three now converge on the area.

As they near it, Saavik's tricorder hums furiously. Be

this a room, a locker of some other place, this time

they -- "open the door." The limp bodies of Chekov and

Terrell fall out.

She will continue sporadically.

Chekov emits a live, reassuring moan.

Bones is passing his medical tricorder over Chekov.

He reaches into his kit. He shoots Chekov moves off

to Terrell. Uhura, voice continues in the b.g.

Saavik's face appears on her screen.

Chekov opens his eyes, and stares into Kirk's.

He weeps like a child, and Kirk holds him. Meanwhile,

Terrell opens his eyes and stares at Bones.

Chekov breaks the embrace in high relief and anxiety.

Bones takes over Chekov --

Chekov breaks into tears. Kirk looks at Terrell, who is

more composed.

Kirk, wearing his spectacles, studies the transporter

consoles. ANGLE WIDENS TO REVEAL the transporter pods,

and the others, b.g.

Chekov and Terrell look at each other; they seem a bit

stronger.

Saavik approaches Kirk:

Kirk looks at her over the rims of the glasses:

Saavik studies the console.

Kirk gets it.

Fractional pause.

Kirk frowns.

Kirk looks at Saavik and Bones, decides --

Kirk walks onto the pods as Saavik works the console,

rolling in electronic coding. The others join Kirk.

She presses a button, joins them on the pods. Slowly

they VANISH.

CAMERA MOVES TOWARD it as the BEAM SOUND continues,

with irregularity. The plantoid is ugly and dead.

The sound frightens us, and climaxes with:

The BEAM SOUND screeches, then settles into its comfort-

able mode as the FIVE FIGURES FLUCTUATE, FADE, then

APPEAR. They look around in wonder and relief.

She indicates something O.S. They cross as CAMERA

reveals a cave wall stacked with technical materials

and crowned by a LARGE PROJECTILE, a giant version

of the model we saw earlier. They stare. (N.B. FEATURE

GENESIS ARMING CONTROL BOX.)

They walk by a group of crates. It all happens very

fast: David leaps out and tackles Kirk, throwing him to

the ground and landing atop him, a knife at his throat.

At the same time, Bones and Saavik reach for their

phasers, but Jedda, already armed, steps out. He has

them covered and helpless.

He raises the knife --

Again he raises the knife --

Carol reaches the tunnel entrance to the cave --

Carol sees Kirk --

All react. David and Kirk, facing each other, are

turned to stone. Bones, Jedda and Chekov turn to look

at Carol, wondering. Terrell very casually takes the

phaser from Jedda.

But Kirk and Carol ignore them and walk towards each

other. There are tears in Carol's eyes. She reaches

up, trying to smile and touches his hair --

She can't. Kirk takes her and holds her tightly, look-

ing at David, over her shoulder. He stands there,

stunned, looking back.

She nods --

He and Chekov have their phasers trained on them.

Terrell speaks into his wrist recorder.

David makes a reckless break for Terrell; Saavik

instantly throws herself on him bringing him down as

Terrell fires, hitting Jedda, who was behind David --

a killing ray. Jedda dematerializes. Carol SCREAMS

and David reacts with horror and guilt.

Most importantly, Chekov begins to tremble. Terrell

himself is shaken by his reflexive action. He's in

semi-panic.

Reliant, motionless in a parking orbit.

Joachim over his shoulder. Others in evidence. Khan

speaks into his console.

Reactions by all -- only Kirk and Bones are unsurprised.

David and Saavik, dazed, fight the urge to do something.

Chekov is close to a seizure. Terrell fights conflicting

mental signals.

As though tearing off a leach, Terrell grabs at the

wrist recorder and flings it to the ground. A shock-

wave of pain hits Terrell. He recovers, trembling and

tries to obey. Chekov is shaking badly. Terrell aims

his phaser at Kirk. Chekov slowly raises his phaser

and aims at Terrell, though his hands are like lead.

We THINK Chekov is going to do the right thing. Then,

shockingly: Terrell turns his phaser on himself.

Terrell does, blowing himself into oblivion.

He SCREAMS, horribly, drops his phaser, clutching his

head.

Bones leaps to his side, pulls an injection device from

his belt pack, jabs it into Chekov's arm. Chekov,

almost with a sigh of relief, drops.

They rush to his side, as do Carol and David.

From the fallen man's ear, something begins to emerge.

The Ceti eel crawls out. It has grown quite large.

Horror from all. Kirk picks up a phaser. As the eel

clears Chekov, he fires and destroys it. He shudders,

then sees the wrist recorder and grabs it.

Khan reacts to Kirk's VOICE: electronic shock. He

clutches the communicator, his eye-whites rolling.

INTERCUT AS DESIRED WITH

He punches several buttons.

In the Rocky Cavern the transporter beam locks on to the

Genesis torpedo and its arming control box.

As Kirk and the others watch, horrified, Khan beams up

the materials. David tries to reach the torpedo, but

Saavik holds him fast --

The beam disappears and Genesis with it, leaving them

alone.

Khan closes his eyes in voluptuous satisfaction.

Joachim enters and Khan looks at him.

Khan sighs, contentedly.

As before, Saavik is on the communicator.

She keeps trying. Chekov stirs --

Bones goes and tends Chekov who moans, tries to sit up.

Chekov tries to smile; Kirk takes his hand --

David has been effectively spiked. Long silence.

Carol laughs -- there's an edge of hysteria to it.

David looks at his father, who checks his watch, putting

on his spectacles.

Saavik and Bones make to follow. Saavik turns to Kirk --

Dark side of Gamma. Reliant sits idle.

Carol sits on the ground, Chekov's head in her lap,

looking at Kirk.

Kirk turns away, overcome. She watches him.

Her joke doesn't take effect. He doesn't turn.

Kirk says nothing.

Kirk hesitates, comes back and sits next to Chekov; he

changes Bones' compress on the ear as he finally speaks.

Carol studies him; gently she sets Chekov's head down

on a sweater, then stands.

She offers her hand. Kirk looks at Chekov, who smiles,

faint assurance.

After a moment's hesitation, Kirk takes her hand and

she leads him to the tunnel.

TRUCKING BEFORE Carol and Kirk. A rising light falls

on their faces as they walk, then run with excitement

toward the source. Kirk races ahead...

toward an iridescent light at its end, blindingly

beautiful with color.

INTERCUT: THESE TWO ANGLES until WE CAN HARDLY WAIT

for Kirk to reach the end of the tunnel, and then,

when it does:

where the rock tunnel ends. Kirk comes out of the

tunnel, and his mouth drops open.

SCENE 130)

A huge cavern. Kirk is actually standing at the middle

of it. Space extends vastly above and below his point

of view. Like Eden, lush growth everywhere, water-

falls, and a cobalt blue sky high, high above where a

round orb glows sending light and warmth downward.

There is a path from where Kirk stands down to the lower

level where Bones, and the others are waiting and calling

to him. Mist and haze waft gently across the cavern.

as Carol comes up beside him.

The turbo doors open and Joachim stands there.

Khan smiles.

He punches at his console.

Reliant ominously pokes her nose into the lit side of

the planet, heading for Enterprise.

The Regula I Space Station -- but where is Enterprise?

frowning with puzzlement.

not a trace!

Kirk and the others eat fruit from the huge (matte)

forest beyond. Chekov has been moved to join them.

who watches him.

She almost smiles. David returns her stare and it

throws her.

Saavik rises, paces. Kirk puts down his food.

Kirk watches Saavik.

Kirk looks at Bones, who smiles --

He looks at his watch again, using his glasses --

He picks up the communicator.

The others are on their feet, stunned with amazement --

He clicks off.

David gapes at his father.

WE CAN SEE NOW where Enterprise is: she has slipped

behind the plantoid, clockwise, even as Reliant was

rounding into the lighted side.

Kirk, David, Saavik, Carol and Bones, holding the semi-

conscious Chekov MATERIALIZE. Spock is there to greet

them.

They are moving through the room as they talk --

Saavik steps in front of Spock.

CAMERA STAYS WITH THEM, HOLDS ON DAVID, awed.

Saavik and Kirk follow Spock. They stop at a Turbo

Lift --

They race down corridors as they speak --

Full crew in place as doors whoosh open --

ALARMS, SIRENS, ETC. CREW RUSH INTO PLACE AS Kirk,

Spock and Saavik approach the big screen.

We see the Enterprise emerging from the dark side of

Gamma Regula, where Reliant is now a moving blip.

Kirk looks over the rims of his glasses at Spock; they

smile with faint amusement.

As the lights change, the CREW runs to their stations.

ENTERPRISE STARTS MOVING.

Carol, David and Bones react to the light change and

the sirens -- Bones works on Chekov...

Carol and David are civilians on a battleship.

Reacting. Saavik approaches Kirk and Spock.

Kirk and Spock exchange looks --

The Enterprise whooshes by CAMERA leaving Regula

behind. Reliant now appears in far b.g. and CAMERA

BEGINS A MOVE to her.

Reliant moves to and past CAMERA in hot pursuit.

Call them SPACE-BYS. Enterprise rushes TOWARD US,

flashes BY and CONTINUES towards the swirling nebula.

THEN Reliant does the same, closer in pursuit. At

this moment, half the distance between Regula and

the nebula has been covered.

Orientation, SHOT. Reliant can clearly see where

Enterprise is headed --

Reliant's shot crosses Enterprise's bow --

The ship reverberates with the near miss. Chekov wakes

up, looks wildly about --

As they talk, David, unnoticed, leaves the area. The

Enterprise is buffeted again --

She whitens in fear. ANOTHER SHOT reverberates.

The bridge door slides open and David enters. He

stares in wonder. Saavik reacts to David.

Khan's eyes bulge --

Khan's eyes bulge --

And he reaches across and executes it himself.

They react to Reliant's speed-up. The nebula approach

is ON SCREEN.

WE'RE VERY CLOSE NOW, and SEE CLEARLY the swirling,

slowly moving gases, magenta, purple, etc. There are

veils of luminescent materials and through all an

interlace of unpredictable electrical charges.

Like lightning, these intermittent great flashes

illumine whole sections of the nebula. OUR VIEW is

moving slowly forward...

As Enterprise whooshes into the PICTURE headed into the

purplish gas -- and disappears into a cloud bank of

the stuff.

A moment then Reliant APPEARS, pursues Enterprise into

the gloom, also disappears.

ON SCREEN the picture is squirrelly purple, breaking

up. Blindness. Panic.

Electrical forces raging without are also reflected on

the circuits within. It's bumpy, on top of everything

else. Electronic WHINING.

Khan does not argue.

Cautiously Reliant emerges from a massive "cloudbank."

Electrical discharges abound. Barely moving, she feels

her way forward. Alone.

A treat: Enterprise is above and behind Reliant.

Reliant's image is breaking up.

Sulu strains, then fires -- just as an electrical dis-

turbance bounces the bridge --

The bounce causes Sulu's phaser shot to go wide of

Reliant, amid CRACKLING discharges --

Rolls from the near-miss concussion --

Reliant is wide of the mark with a Photon torpedo.

A BLINDING ELECTRICAL DISCHARGE. When it clears,

Enterprise appears to be alone.

ON SCREEN, nothing but magenta amid picture breakup --

Enterprise feeling its way...

All peer into the lousy picture. Occasional electrical

flashes.

Still Enterprise moves forward... A LARGE FLASH... a

SUDDEN GLIMPSE: Reliant boring in on collision course!

A sudden clearing ON SCREEN:

Hard over, but not fast enough. Reliant fires a phaser.

Reliant's phaser shot hits the Enterprise torpedo room

in Dorsal Fin area of ship.

An EXPLOSION rocks the room and...

The Bridge rattles from the explosion below; Sulu is

thrown from his chair. Saavik leaps to her post --

The Enterprise fires a phaser and delivers a raking shot

-- which rips along the side of Reliant's primary hull.

The bridge is damaged; Joachim and others are wounded...

For the first time, his friend wounded, Khan hesitates,

holds him --

She veers to one side with the impact and disappears

into a deep purple mass.

Sulu is being helped by David --

Bones is there, helping some crewmen. The Reactor Room

flashes a red warning light and glows with a blue

light. The air is heavy with smoke but the doors,

damaged earlier, still hold.

The bridge door opens and closes; Chekov, faint,

stands there.

ANGLE FAVORING David as the others react to Chekov

taking his place. Quiet.

Spock is bent over the scanner --

Kirk looks at him, smiles.

Reliant in purplish mass, banking slightly, completing

a long turn, then boring ahead.

As Reliant emerges from the dark blue mass into a clear

almost tranquil place. Reliant, moving slowly, stops,

as if looking around.

The screens are empty.

Reliant motionless in the f.g. amid occasional flashes.

Now, behind Reliant and from below, like a great whale

rising from the depths, Enterprise rises vertically,

slowly passing the unsuspecting enemy. When Enterprise

is above, behind and quite close:

Reliant ON SCREEN, intermittent but clear.

A)   EXT. ENTERPRISE

fires torpedo; one which hits, destroying Reliant's

weapons pod on top.

B)   INT. RELIANT

C)   EXPLOSIONS rock the interior of Reliant.

D)   EXT. ENTERPRISE

fires two more times. The first causes general

damage. The second, close behind blasts Reliant's

port engine off into space, debris scattering.

E)   INT. RELIANT BRIDGE

is devastated. Khan is blown from his chair and

WE'RE UNCERTAIN of his fate.

Reliant, now a scarred, battered hulk, her main hull

still intact, but dead in space.

No cheers, just deadly professionalism.

Amid the smoke and ruins, WE SEE no signs of life.

In f.g., chillingly, Khan rises INTO SHOT by the main

console. He is horribly burned, and it is clear that

he is clinging to life by his will.

As Uhura's voice continues O.S., Khan pulls himself

into a chair at the console, one of his hands useless

at his side.

Painfully, with one good arm, he starts arming the

Genesis console.

There sits the Genesis torpedo: lights start blinking

in response. As we watch, the CHILD we met on Ceti Alpha

walks to the torpedo and smiles at the lights.

David peers closer over Spock's shoulder, reacts.

The briefest stunned moment. Kirk hits intercom:

STATIC.

Spock leaps from his place and disappears through the

bridge doors.

Enterprise backs away from Reliant. Her speed is pain-

fully slow.

ON SCREEN, Enterprise, intermittent image, backs away.

Khan smiles triumphantly through his pain. An elec-

tronic power SOUND has been building.

Khan topples forward, dead. The WHINE continues to

build chillingly.

Spock rushes in. Bones ministers to Scotty, b.g.

Spock sizes up the situation, starts for the radiation

room, Bones intercepts him.

He gives Bones the Vulcan nerve pinch. Bones goes

down.

Spock presses the access button and enters the Reactor

Room, a separated area behind radiation-proof glass

and metal, RED FLASHING LIGHTS and an iridescent blue

glow within.

Bathed in blue light, arcing energy around him, Spock

is a silhouetted figure as he goes to work, door clos-

ing behind him.

The WHINE increasing, the dead ship Reliant alive with

danger...

A snail's pace compared to the escape speed needed.

REQUIRED)

Outside the glass, Scotty and Bones screaming:

WE CAN SEE the silent urging of Bones and Scotty.

Spock is oblivious. Amid the fire-blue arcs, he moves

to the control panel. Between his hands and the con-

trols, power arcs insanely. Spock is in an inferno,

a radiation hell, fighting now with all his strength

to control it. Slowly, the damping rods move out.

Spock moves to a manual control, begins to turn it.

on the manual control, slowly turning black.

His face, using all the self discipline he is capable

of to control the pain, continuing to work --

Bones and Scotty react in helpless horror.

Enterprise still well within the nebula, Reliant a

figure still visible in b.g. She's crawling still.

Reliant, now symbol of death, ON SCREEN.

Kirk looks at David, but David shakes his head: No

way. Then:

She increases power and --

A)   With a burst of warp speed, Enterprise accelerates

B)   POV RELIANT

C)   POV MUTARA NEBULA

D)   ENTERPRISE

E)   RELIANT

F)   EXT. MUTARA NEBULA - MASTER EFFECT

The bridge doors open and Carol appears. Instinctively

she draws near her son.

Finally, Kirk turns, sees Carol --

ON SCREEN and INTERCUT -- GENESIS TUMBLES and starts

evolving. A moment in history.

The tone frightens Kirk.

He moves through the doors quickly, leaving the rest

staring at the new world evolving.

It is endless. Kirk runs forever, feet pounding down,

down, down --

The clouds tumble and move, new things lie beyond --

Kirk races --

Kirk emerges to encounter Scotty and Bones. Their

looks tell him. He sees the flashing light over the

Reactor Room. He dashes for the control panel. Bones

grabs him.

Kirk's eyes bulge.

With stunned understanding, Kirk stumbles to the door,

sees Spock on his knees, hands blackened, face cracked

with radiation lines and scars.

Spock shakes his head. With a feeble hand he reaches

the intercom button: filtered communication.

Spock is satisfied; he fights for breath --

He almost keels over. Kirk has tears streaming down

his face.

He props a hand on the glass to support himself. Kirk's

hand reflexively goes to match Spock's on the other side

of the glass --

Spock falls. Bones and Scotty react.

But Kirk is past hearing or caring. He is huddled up

against the glass, destroyed. Bones looks on, helpless.

DISSOLVE TO:

A spectacular look at Carol's planet being born!

the Ship's Company in full dress uniforms assembled for

ship's burial service. Over the PULLBACK, we HEAR:

Carol and David are PROMINENTLY FEATURED. David watching

Kirk attentively. So are Sulu, Uhura, Chekov, and Saavik.

Bones stands next to Kirk. Scotty carries his bagpipes.

Saavik wears her hair down.

He tries to go on, but catches Bones' face: Bones is

streaming tears. Kirk can't go on.

Saavik steps forward.

All Starfleet personnel salute. Scotty begins to PIPE,

an odd blare which mellows into

nods a signal.

A gleaming black projectile is carried by pallbearers

into the launching chamber, which locks behind it. At

a hand signal from a TORPEDOMAN, the projectile is fired.

NOISE.

Spock's remains seen on their way to the new world.

The capsule grows too small to SEE. The bagpipes STOP.

The salute drop.

She steps to him and they exchange salutes --

They salute. She about-faces as Kirk walks towards

the  Turbo Lift. Saavik issues dismissal and posting

orders, but WE TRUCK with Kirk until CAMERA STOPS and

he leaves FRAME and WE HOLD on David. He finally

understands.

After a long moment, the CAMERA DISCOVERS Kirk. He

pours a drink, then decides not to have it.

He sits wearily, not knowing how to shake the ghosts.

Then he sees the book.

Kirk picks up the battered volume, the gift from his

friend, and closes his eyes a moment. Almost idly

he starts turning pages, looking for a clue. But he

can't see the writing -- he rummages through his

pockets and pulls out the half-glasses --

One of the lenses is broken. It has a deep impact on

Kirk. He puts down the book and glasses and covers

his eyes.

A SOFT BONG. Kirk clears his throat.

The door whooshes open and closes to admit David. The

last person Kirk expected to see.

David's strength is turning a corner with Kirk --

Pause. They study each other.

A stunned moment, then Kirk lets it all hang out: for

David, for Carol and for Spock. He hugs his son, hold-

ing onto him as if to life itself.

The Enterprise passes the new planet in all its beauty.

The door whooshes. Kirk strides on the bridge, David

with him. Carol is there with Bones; they are glad at

what they see.

Saavik comes close to blushing --

She takes him off, deadpan amusement --

They stare at her.

Kirk has a smile. He joins Bones and Carol facing the

screen.

He shakes his head, remembering --

He turns to Saavik and David --

The bridge crackles with lights and CHATTER as we...

AND GO THROUGH TO:

She is moving out now, passing CAMERA and heading

toward the distant stars. She is beautiful and they

are beautiful. And as she slowly disappears from

VIEW...

MUSIC RISES. CREDITS ROLL.

