Skip Woods

January 2001

SWAT guys making their way to the roof of the bank.

aiming down at Gabriel's merc.

The merc is holding up the weeping girl so everyone can

see what Gabriel is talking about. Unbeknownst to him,

red laser aiming dots appear on Gab's merc's chest.

Stanley is being held by two of the well-dressed men.

CLOSEUP ON GABRIEL

Roberts stops short as he hears this.   He and Joy both

look at each other.

Hearing this, Roberts stands back up.

In SLOW MOTION, A.D. Joy jumps for his radio.

SWAT members move into position along the peripheral.

The merc turns toward them. The momentum swings his

shouldered weapon upward in SLOW MOTION.

The SWAT snipers take this weapon movement as an

aggressive act and FIRE into the merc, the BULLETS

RIPPING into him. He drops. A SWAT-armored vehicle

rushes in -- one of the team jumps out, in an attempt to

rescue the woman.

Hysterical, the hostage runs back toward the bank,

confusing the SWAT guy trying to rescue her. He reaches

for her but she fights him. Finally, he grabs her around

the waist and carries her on his shoulder into the street

as she screams toward the bank for help.

CLOSEUP - HIS FOOT (SLOW MOTION)

as he steps off the sidewalk.

ANGLE ON GIRL (SLOW MOTION)

She is screaming nooooo!

CLOSEUP - HIS FOOT (SLOW MOTION)

as it continues its stride.

CLOSEUP - RADIO DOG COLLAR (SLOW MOTION)

Around her neck.    The green light blinks to red.   BEEP.

NORMAL SPEED.

KABOOM!

BALL BEARINGS RICOCHET against the plate steel of the

bank.

The ball bearings bounce across the street and tap

against the coffee shop.

Everyone in the coffee shop looks at each other like,

"What just happened?"

As ball bearings roll back into the street.

FADE IN:

TITLE SEQUENCE:

SUPERIMPOSE:    3 DAYS EARLIER

AXL TORVALDS enters customs. A thirty-something European

who could easily pass for a season regular on

"Sprockets."

We PULL BACK. Torvalds is watching anxiously as his bags

are torn into like Christmas day at the Griswalds. The

two CUSTOMS AGENTS eye his three laptops suspiciously.

-- one of the Agents cuts off his plea with a glance.

Torvalds is wary of time. After several moments his bags

are being repacked when another passport is found.

The customs official holds up two passports. ANOTHER

CUSTOMS OFFICIAL takes them and walks over to Torvalds.

Torvalds glances at his watch.    1:45 PM.

Torvalds stands to the side, while two customs officials

compare his passports. They step over to a computer

terminal and punch in some data. It's 1:50 PM.

Torvalds notices a customs department employee wheeling a

cart of confiscated items out of a nearby service

elevator. He pushes the cart out of the oversized

elevator.

Torvalds shoots a glance back to the two officials

discussing his situation.

Torvalds casually picks up his computer case and coolly

walks over to the elevator.

Torvalds walks in just as the doors close.

The customs officials conferring look around. Torvalds

is gone. One of them looks up and sees the numbers

changing above the elevator.

The customs officials race up to the escalator to the --

Torvalds exits the elevator -- and coolly makes his way

to the pedestrian walkway. He's halfway across it, when

-- multiple security teams appear and converge on him

from both ends.

He's finally wrestled to the ground.

SENATOR JAMES REISMAN -- R. (Georgia) strides confidently

into a small, windowless boardroom.

DARWIN KAPLAN, the President's aide and one of the four

men in the room, definitely the most intense, smiles

thinly.

The Senator starts to sit down.    Kaplan turns toward the

Senator.

They look at each other.

We are indeed in the middle of nowhere, no nothing as far

as you can see. We CONTINUE TO CRANE UP, a $140,000

Ferrari Modena flies down the road in a cloud of

suspended gravel toward Stanley's dilapidated, piece-o'-

crap trailer.

Stan stands on the roof of his trailer, which was a

dilapidated shack in the 1950s and now is a lot worse.     A

chained but scruffy-looking Rottweiler runs around in

front of the trailer.

Stan looks completely different than he did in the

opening sequence. He hasn't taken very good care of

himself. His hair is long, and right now standing on

end. He is wearing nothing but a dirty towel, and is

slicing golf balls off the roof. Whack.

As the Ferrari drives up he begins hitting golf balls at

it, but he just isn't very good. Nevertheless, after a

dozen bad hits, a lucky shot ricochets off the aluminum

hood.

CLOSEUP - FERRARI HOOD

CLANG!

BACK TO SCENE

Stan smiles as the car slides to a halt in the gravel

driveway, and turns back to his "work."

ANGLE ON STANLEY

As we hear the DOOR SHUT and SOMEONE COMES UP the

aluminum extension ladder.

A few moments later, in SLOW MOTION, GINGER appears at

the top of the ladder and steps onto the trailer's roof.

Stan turns around.

She is what the hack writers of the Thirties would call a

vision. Thesauruses could be exhausted searching for

adjectives that do her justice.

In the low-rent light of Stanley's white trash haven, she

is, by definition, a goddess.

WHACK (slice).

She lights a cigarette, inhales deeply, then exhales.

She knows his name.

WHACK (slice).

WHACK (slice).

She glances downward then back up.

WHACK (slice).

WHACK (slice).

WHACK (slice).

Begrudgingly he hands her the club. She tees up a ball,

pulls up her skirt far enough to reveal thong, and whack,

hits a ball that Tiger Woods would envy. CLANG.

She smiles, hands him the club back and pulls down her

skirt.

He looks at her.

He does and the ball goes flying 200 yards, perfect,

whacking a fridge with "200 YARDS" painted on it. CLANG!

Stan looks at the club, then tosses it to the ground,

climbing back down an aluminum extension ladder that

leads up through a makeshift hatch on the roof.

She follows but Stan ignores her and walks into his

bedroom.

She walks over, opens, and reaches into the fridge --

-- and pulls out a beer --

She walks into:

Stan walks back in, looking for semi-clean clothes.

Stanley, pulling on his pants, lets the sentence hang,

unfinished.

He's putting on his shoes. She squats down in front of

him, resting her hand on his leg.

She smiles up at him, then takes a long drink of her

beer. Stan stares at her a moment, then...

She just dropped a 20 megaton thermonuclear warhead into

Stanley's universe.

Stanley practically pitches her down the steps of his

trailer and slams the door.

A TELEPHONE RINGS in a multi-zillion dollar Malibu beach

house. A WOMAN, late twenties, grabs the receiver. Her

voice is of perfect timbre and accentless.

on phone. He stands in front of his now closed fridge.

It is covered with pictures of his daughter, Holly.

INTERCUT BETWEEN the two.

Melissa's accent continues to travel eastward from

Midwest flat to full tilt Long Island.

She regains control.       Her voice is accentless once again.

She is now downright icy.

CLICK.

The PHONE GOES DEAD.

Stanley freaks, beats the receiver against the fridge,

again, and again. Then, he calmly hangs up the phone.

Stanley walks down the steps of his trailer. Ginger sits

on the hood of her car in all her estrogenic glory,

smoking and petting Stan's dog.

Stanley's dog leans against her, happy.

She smiles at him. He smiles back, about ready to stick

her in the trunk of her car.

She blows smoke at him, thinking, then whips out her

trump card.

She pulls out a large manila envelope. Opens it and

dumps the rubber-banded stacks of hundreds onto the

ground.

Stanley just stares at the money.     He looks up at Ginger.

She smokes, letting it all sink in. She puts out her

cigarette. They just stare at each other. She smiles.

FADE IN:

Torvalds sits at a table in a room with a two-way mirror.

To his left, a three-piece suited Euroweasel (obviously

his LAWYER) nurses a steaming cup of coffee while

providing air cover from the two interrogating FBI

Agents.

The table is covered with empty coffee cups and cigarette

carcasses. Roberts eases quietly into the room in mid-

interrogation.

Torvalds says something in Finnish to his Lawyer.

Torvalds again speaks to his Lawyer in Finnish.

Torvalds speaks to his Lawyer.

The FBI Agent's head is now close to imploding.

They turn to see Roberts smiling.

Roberts sits down in a chair facing Torvalds.     He stares

at him a moment, just smiling, then...

Torvalds looks at Roberts' badge and says something in

Finnish, the only recognizable word being "Roberts." The

attorney and Torvalds both laugh. Roberts looks at the

attorney.

Again they smile. Roberts looks at the lawyer's cup of

steaming coffee and with one finger pushes it over into

the lawyer's lap.

Roberts grabs him by the collar and slams him into the

wall, then pushes him out the door with a kick in the

ass. He grabs the briefcase and tosses it out after him

and locks the door.

He turns on Torvalds, smacking him across the face. He

pushes him into the wall and holds his badge in front of

him.

Torvalds thinks quietly.

Two FBI agents (BAD AGENTS #1 & 2) watch the

interrogation through a two-way mirror. One of the

agents looks surprisingly like Gabriel's merc that

carried the young blonde girl killed outside the bank

earlier.

The Agents look at each other.    Bad Agent #1 dials his

cell phone.

INT. FBI INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

A yellow Lamborghini Diablo drives up. In SLOW MOTION

Gabriel steps out of the car, wind whipping his full-

length, black Gucci overcoat.

Gabriel walks through the crowd as if a celebrity --

-- exchanging kisses and the lingering of hands, as he

slides through parting seas of beautiful people.

A BOEING 777 SCREAMS overhead. We TILT DOWN. Stanley

and Ginger walk out of LAX. A white LIMO IDLES directly

in front of them.

Stanley is wearing a black T-shirt which proclaims in

large white letters across his chest, in true Scarlet

Letter fashion, "LOSER!"

Upstairs on a lavish balcony Gabriel looks at the crowd.

PUSH INTO --

CLOSEUP - GABRIEL

smiling.

Torvalds knows this and smiles at Roberts arrogantly.

The door opens, an FBI AGENT sticks his head in.

Roberts walks out of the room.    The FBI Agent positions

himself outside the door.

Roberts walks out of the room.    Torvalds' attorney is

there.

Roberts walks down the hall. The attorney, pissed, walks

back into the interrogation room.

One of the two Agents watches the door, the other, Bad

Agent #2 steps over to the two-way mirror.

Torvalds talks to his attorney in Finnish. Apparently

his attorney is trying to convince him of something.

Torvalds, unfazed, walks over to the one-way mirror.

PULL BACK FROM Torvalds to reveal Bad Agent #2 calmly

screwing a silencer on to his .45. Torvalds leans closer

to the glass.

Bad Agent #2 sticks the silenced barrel of the gun up

against the glass -- right between the eyes of Torvalds.

Bad Agent #2 moves the barrel up and down between

Torvalds face and neck.

Torvalds looks smugly into the glass.    He lifts his hand,

holding up his middle finger.

Bad Agent #2 moves his aim to Torvalds' tonsils.   He

depresses the trigger slightly.

Torvalds, middle finger in the air, smiles. Unbeknownst

to him however, a tiny red aiming laser has zipped

through the glass and is now positioned as a dot on

Torvalds' throat.

Satisfied with the placement he PULLS the TRIGGER...

THUMP! THUMP! THUMP! THUMP!

Roberts walks down the hall and turns right into --

Roberts picks up the phone.

Finally --

Realization slowly hits him, he drops the phone and runs

from the room.

Roberts runs down the hall and into:

Roberts finds Torvalds and his attorney dead.     Roberts

looks into the mirror.

Six clean bullet holes perforate his reflection.

A huge, lavish, converted theater in downtown Los

Angeles. A 21st Century version of 54 on equal overdoses

of steroids and acid.

Stanley and Ginger walk into a large area with individual

private booths in small rooms around the perimeter. The

rooms have the ability to be closed off by drawing huge,

thick velvet drapes.

They walk into one of the booths in the back. Sitting

around a large, oval table is our antihero, Gabriel

Shear, surrounded by a handful of his crew and a gaggle

of beautiful model-types.

Ginger kisses Gabriel and with a healthy exchange of

fluids, then...

Gabriel smiles, then looks back at Stanley.

Gabriel just stares.

Stanley sits down.    Gabriel pours Stan a glass of Crown.

Changing the subject.

Gabriel smiles.

The beautiful WOMAN to Stanley's right slides closer.

Stanley looks at her, she's a knockout; artificially

perfect. He looks back at Gabriel.

Stan looks around; everyone is smiling.       Helga moves

closer to him.

He is handed an open laptop, it glows. He sets it on the

table and spins it around in front of Stanley.

Helga pours a shot of tequila.

Helga shoots the tequila, then turns to Stanley, places

her lips against his. The gold liquid drips from their

lips as she spits it into Stanley's mouth.

He pushes her away, breaking the liplock, and swallowing

the tequila. She licks it from his face.

Stanley's having a little trouble concentrating on

Gabriel.

Helga begins sucking on Stanley's fingers.      He pulls them

away.

The drapes close. Two of Gabriel's crew step out. Marco

yanks out a .40 caliber Glock and quickly screws a well-

used silencer onto the end. Marco walks around behind

Stanley.

Helga smiles, then drops her head into Stanley's lap.    We

hear his PANTS UNZIP.

He has to go with it.

Stan realizes now no one is smiling.    He grabs the blonde

by the hair but can't pull her up.

The silencer is pressed into the back of his head.

Stanley tries to focus on the screen. Stanley sucks air

through his teeth, trying to focus.

Stanley gives up on trying to get her up and his hands

start flying over the keyboard. We INTERCUT the ACTION

WITH a CLOSEUP of Stanley's hands working the keyboard,

and a CLOSEUP of Gabriel, and a CLOSEUP of the LCD screen

which reads in flashing red letters --

"ACCESS DENIED."

Tension builds as Stanley continues to work the keyboard.

"ACCESS DENIED."

"ACCESS DENIED."

"ACCESS DENIED."

Faster and faster.       "ACCESS DENIED."

"ACCESS DENIED."

He grabs her head.       She doesn't come up.   The screen

flashes:

"ACCESS DENIED."

Marco puts the silencer to his eye.

CLICK. The GUN is empty. Stanley tries to catch his

breath. Helga lifts up her head. Everyone laughs.

Gabriel walks around the table.

Stanley is pissed. Helga, smiling, kisses him on the

cheek. Stanley tries to calm down. He gets up, shoots

someone's half-drank drink, zips his pants, then --

Stanley hits the enter key and spins the computer around.

CLOSEUP - COMPUTER SCREEN

"ACCESS GRANTED" appears, and the Department of Defense

logo scrolls across the screen.

WIDER

Stanley gives them all a "fuck you" smile, then stomps

out through the curtain.

CLOSEUP ON GABRIEL

who smiles.

Stanley pushes into the bathroom.       He kicks the

wastebasket across the room.

He pushes a club kid out of the way of the sink. He

turns on the water and washes his face. Slowly he leans

his forehead against the mirror. Ginger appears behind

him.

Ginger pulls out a cigarette and a lighter from her

plastic overcoat.

She exhales toward Stanley.

He turns around.

Suddenly three club kids come busting into the bathroom.

Ginger interrupts him by slamming Stan between the

urinals and ramming her tongue into his mouth with the

kind of wet, aggressive action that takes a movie from

PG-13 to an R.

When the kids realize that the urinals are occupied, they

leave. Slowly Ginger takes her tongue out of Stan's

mouth. They look at each other. She smiles at him.

A beat, for a moment there exists something between them,

then bam, she's all business again.

ANGLE ON STANLEY

As he realizes she's right, he's got nothing to lose.

Slam! He smacks the mirror with his fist, then walks out

of the rest room. Ginger slowly lifts the cigarette.

She exhales, then slowly smiles. She's got him.

Next to the valet stand, Gabriel leans over the hood of

an evil-looking, bright-yellow Lamborghini Diablo

Roadster, a GAMEBOY CHIRPING in his hands.

Stanley walks INTO the FRAME.          Without missing a beat,

Gabriel looks up --

Gabriel stands up and walks toward Stan.

Gabriel smiles.

Three GEEKY COMPUTER-TYPES sit in front of a huge array

of CRTs. They look up when Roberts stalks into the room.

He yanks off his jacket, crumbles it and throws it across

the room. They just look at each other.

On one of the 25-inch screens we see a terminal at LAX

with hundreds of people streaming by at 20x speed.

Torvalds is being apprehended. He freezes it.

He points at two men watching this action from the

sideline. He pulls another monitor forward.

He fast-forwards through the crowd until the two guys

show up again. He freezes it.

He slowly moves the action forward --

The footage stops and zooms in on one of two travelers

who the two men are meeting.

It is Stanley.

The computer guys look at each other.    One hands Roberts

an open copy of Wired magazine.

Roberts looks at it. Then at the screen.        A pop-up

screen shows Stanley's history.

Roberts moves the mouse to see Ginger.

Roberts looks at him like he's an idiot.

Roberts stands.

The house is at the very top of the hills and the pool

hangs off the side of the cliff, way below the house.

The outer edge appears nonexistent, like the water hangs

frozen in air.

A very hip but very nasty soiree is in progress.    More

Ibiza than Hollywood Hills.

Stanley sits in a chair beside a pool containing a half-

dozen beautiful un-clad model-types.

Gabriel is mingling through the crowd.

CLOSEUP - STANLEY

Stanley stares off into the glittering lights of L.A.

WIDEN.

Gabriel glances at Ginger who shakes her head.

Ginger eases over to where Stan is sitting. She runs her

hands across his shoulders as she moves around him,

dancing to the MUSIC.

Stanley and Gabriel stand in Gabriel's primo designed

pad, staring at an array of supercomputers.

Stanley stands in front of the six huge flat panels,

linked together, in complete awe.

Stan thinks about it.

They shake hands and Gabriel heads toward the back of the

house.

LONG SHOT - GABRIEL

walking up the stairs toward his room.

Stan looks over to see Ginger staring at him.

Ginger pulls herself up on the desk, spreading her legs

on either side of the keyboard.

She turns on the computers.     He backs away.

She reaches out and pulls him to her.

She kisses him and slowly he responds.       She smiles.

They kiss.

Stan shakes his head.

She looks at him a moment. She smiles at him and slowly

bends forward to whisper in his ear.

CLOSEUP - GINGER'S MOUTH

at Stanley's ear.

ANGLE ON GINGER AND STANLEY

As she leans back. She stares at him a moment then

slides off the desk.

She hands him the bottle of expensive wine she's been

drinking, and then grabbing Stan by the belt-buckle,

pulls him casually behind her toward the pool house.

FADE IN:

Lounging by the pool is none other than our heroine,

Ginger, topless, wearing nothing more than tiny, oblong,

green-tinted shades, a skimpy T-back, and a little silver

ring through her left nipple. She's reading Steven

Hawkings' A Brief History of Time. A shadow falls over

her.

The shadow moves.       Ginger glances nonchalantly up, then:

She reaches over, lights a cigarette, and inhales deeply.

He smiles, looking her up and down.

They stare at each sharing a moment of God-only-knows-

what, then both break into smiles like two giddy seventh-

graders at the local skating rink.

Stanley nervously clears his throat.    She's got him.

She reaches down beside the chair, grabs her keys and

tosses them to him. Then:

He looks at her with open mouth amazement. In just 24

hours, she already knows what makes him tick.

She looks up from her book and winks at him, then returns

to her reading.

A SCHOOL BELL RINGS and three hundred screaming kids of

all ages come running from the doors.

ANGLE ON HOLLY

Not your average ten-year-old. Even decked out in bell-

bottoms and sandals there is something about the way she

carries herself that is older; wiser; sadder.

She walks into a CLOSEUP and scans the driveway.

Reflected in her tiny, round lavender shades we see the

circular driveway of the school jam-packed with buses and

parental types in their M-series Mercedes and their Lexus

SUVs. She sighs. We CRANE UP, PANNING LEFT.

Holly walks to the edge of the street oblivious to the

mayhem. She looks up and down the street then slowly

drops her backpack and sits down on the curb. She pulls

a well-worn copy of William Gibson's Neuromancer from her

backpack, and turns up the raging ELECTRONICA from her

WALKMAN.

Now there is much less pandemonium. No more buses. We

CRANE DOWN TO a MEDIUM of Holly still in the exact same

spot. Holly sighs, pulls back her headphones and grabs

her StarTac from her backpack. She opens the phone and

dials.

The PHONE RINGS and we PAN AROUND the seemingly empty

house, finally COMING TO REST ON the back of the couch.

We JIB UP and TILT DOWN. Melissa is passed out in a pool

of her own drool. The PHONE continues to RING.

Holly hits the phone and then presses speed dial. We see

"Yellow Cab" scroll across the phone. She hits "SEND."

She stands up, ready for a fight. And there, next to her

is her father; transformed. Under his arm is a three-

foot-tall stuffed giraffe wrapped with a big red bow.

She runs to him and wraps her arms around him.

He holds the stuffed giraffe to her.

He grabs her stuff.

He walks toward Ginger's silver Mercedes CLK which he's

borrowing. Holly runs and jumps on his back. They laugh

as he carries her to the car.

They sit in the CLK, parked down the street from Holly's

house.

Holly quickly kisses him, jumps out and runs, crying,

from the car at full speed, with the giraffe.

Stanley, tears rolling down his face, slaps the steering

wheel, trying to figure out how he screwed up his life so

badly.

Suddenly, the passenger door opens and a man in a DARK

BLUE SUIT and fed-issued shades gets in.

He motions toward a black Taurus, now parked across the

street. In the back, he sees a face he recognizes.

CLOSEUP ON ROBERTS

BACK TO STAN

The man kinda smiles at Stan.

Stanley whacks the fed with his elbow across the bridge

of his nose and jumps out of the car.

INT. TAURUS

Stan runs across the hood of the Taurus and just jumps

over the railing.

We realize what Stan did probably wasn't the smartest

move in the world. The cliff is just barely on this side

of 90 degrees and drops off about five hundred yards

straight down to the PCH.

Stan falls in SLOW MOTION about thirty feet before the

cliff face angles out enough to break his fall. He begins

a combination of sliding and tumbling down the bluff.

Roberts runs to the railing and sees Stanley sliding/

falling down the hill.

Roberts then hops the railing, as his men scramble for

the car.

Roberts hangs in mid-air a moment, then he too begins the

rolling fall down the hill.

ANGLE ON STANLEY

as he tries to keep his balance, is being beaten and

battered by the sharp, rocky ground.

Finally, he shoots off an outcropping and free-falls for

fifteen feet. Then it really gets bad.

Clear plastic sheeting has been stretched across the hill

to help control the erosion. To Stanley however, it is

the world's largest Slip and Slide.

He is no longer able to control, even badly, his descent.

Now, he is flying down the cliff face, only the rocks and

bushes that slam into his body, slows the descent.

Roberts, above him, is doing little better.

LONG SHOT ON CLIFF FACE

As Stan and Roberts slide toward the eight lanes of

blazing afternoon traffic on the PCH.

Finally, Stan bounces onto the black-top road.   He runs

headlong into the traffic.

CARS SCREECH, HORNS BLARING, as they slide into each

other. Stanley does not lose the single-minded focus of

escaping.

Roberts, now at   the bottom himself, watches as a CAR

SLIDES sideways   into Stan, flipping him over it. Stan,

not stopping to   feel the pain, runs across the hood of a

freshly-stopped   car.

On the other side, Stan runs down to the beach and runs

down the sand at full-tilt, looking for any escape route.

Roberts has made up some time due to the auto-pedestrian

accident which slowed him down a little. Stan however is

faster.

Stan does his best Jerry Rice, as he runs down the beach

at full speed.

Suddenly, the Taurus comes tearing-ass across the beach

at Stanley. Stan veers, now running through the surf.

The Taurus veers as well, and Stan is forced to slide

across the hood to keep from getting whacked. The Taurus

breaks left, and slides further into the surf.

The FBI driver hits the accelerator and bogs the Taurus

down, tires spinning, throwing sand. Stan continues to

run as Roberts makes it to the Taurus.

He pulls his .40 CAL. from his shoulder holster and FIRES

it into the air. Roberts bends over trying to catch his

breath.

Stanley stops, putting his hands up.

Roberts looks at the agent.

Three of the agents bring Stanley over.

Stan slides down by the back wheel.

Stan just looks at him.

Stanley looks at Roberts.

They do.   Stan looks at it.

Stan turns to walk off.

Stan turns.

Stan lifts his middle finger behind him and begins the

long journey back up the hill. Roberts collapses into

the passenger seat.

CLOSEUP ON ROBERTS

watching Stan walk away.

Ginger walks in and closes the door. She walks over to

the dresser and takes off her earrings. Then she reaches

under her dress and unVelcros the modified 10mm. Glock

and its thigh holster, dropping it on the dresser. She

then pulls off the hip, little designer dress she is

wearing, revealing the fact that she is wearing a tiny

transmitting receiver taped between her breasts.

She stares at herself in the mirror for a moment, then

slowly starts to untape the bug.

Ginger grabs her Glock and spins around, the holster

dropping away with the touch of a button.

She levels it on the dark corner of the room where

Stanley sits waiting, drinking a bottle of Gabriel's

expensive wine.

He leans forward into the light.

INT. HALLWAY

Gabriel walking down hallway.

INT. GABRIEL HOUSE - GINGER'S ROOM - DAY

INT. HALLWAY - ANGLE ON GABRIEL

nearing Ginger's room.

INT. GABRIEL'S HOUSE - GINGER'S ROOM - DAY

Stan and Ginger hold a moment, as:

Stanley, in one quick thinking movement, rips the wire

from Ginger's chest and flings it behind the bed just as

the door swings open. Gabriel stands staring at them.

Ginger topless, weapon in hand and Stanley who looks like

he had the shit kicked out of him.

Ginger and Stanley both stare at him.

Stanley looks at Ginger for a beat.

Ginger stares at Stanley, who turns to look at Gabriel.

Gabriel looks at Stan, waiting.

Stan walks toward Gabriel.

Gabriel walks into the hall. Stanley looks back at

Ginger who mouths the words "Thank you." Stanley ignores

her. Ginger reaches down and grabs a shirt off the bed.

Ginger sighs and tosses her gun onto the bed, then

follows them.

Stanley, looking a little rough, sits in front of the

huge array of flat-panels. He works quickly. The

nitrogen system, an array of hoses winding across the

living room floor, intermittently SHOOTS JETS of GAS

upwards, dropping the temperature to a livable 85

degrees. Gabriel sits next to Stan.

Ginger walks in.      She stands behind Stan as he works.

COMPUTER

The screen shows the MIT University logo.      Then "ACCESS

DENIED." His fingers work the keyboard.

As he talks, we TRACK DOWN an old, concrete stairwell and

down a long, dank hallway.

We TRACK AROUND a corner.

We DOLLY INTO a CLOSEUP ON a large, ominous, dark

mainframe.

hitting a key.

as it HUMS TO LIFE.

as it fills with lines of code.

ANGLE ON STAN

who turns around, a cocky grin on his face, like a proud

parent, she smiles at him.

Gabriel walks in.

She runs her hand affectionately across the side of his

head and walks out.

PUSH IN ON Gabriel as he thinks about it.

The Lamborghini pulls up in front of a Starbucks.

Gabriel gets out of the car, still talking.       Stanley

follows.

Gabriel and Stanley walk through the door and sit down at

a window table.

Stanley turns and looks out the window.    They are sitting

directly across from the World Banc.

Gabriel and Stanley walk toward the house. The CAMERA

PANS LEFT and we can now see Gabriel's house, poolside.

We PULL BACK, THROUGH a window INTO:

A small trailer across the canyon from Gabriel's house.

Gabriel looks at the surveillance photos as they come up.

We INTERCUT as they speak.

He disconnects.

Reisman turns to Kaplan.

Stanley works at the keyboard. He reaches for his glass

of wine and it is empty. He grabs the bottle. It, too,

has been drained. He sighs and walks into the kitchen.

Stan walks to the fridge. Opens the door. No wine. He

sighs. He closes the door and walks off toward the wine

cellar.

In the wine cellar, Stan looks around. He opens one

door, closes it. He opens another, same thing. The

third, he pulls out a bottle. Keeps it. He pulls on

another door and it is locked. He pulls again. Nothing.

The glass doors of the temperature-controlled reach-in

wine cooler is opaque with condensation. He bends close.

Stanley swipes off the condensation inches from his nose.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - ON FACE

leaning against the glass from the other side.    It's

Gabriel's.

ANGLE ON STANLEY

He drops the BOTTLE of wine.   CRASH, it SHATTERS.

REVERSE ANGLE

Gabriel's body is wedged into the 32-degree white wine

cooler.

Stanley looks at the body for a moment, realizes

something really bad is going on and hauls ass upstairs.

Stanley runs around the corner.

Gabriel is standing in the doorway, directly in front of

Stanley. Stan damn near falls down.

Stan can't say a word.

Gabriel looks in and sees the empty wine bottle at the

computer station.

Gabriel walks out.       Stanley slowly follows.

Stan slowly follows.

Stan definitely doesn't get the point.

Gabriel unwraps a piece of gum --

-- and sticks the piece in his mouth.

Gabriel whips right down a side street and drops the

hammer. He blows through a stop sign, then another.

CARS CRASH. He is calm, cool, but continues to glance in

his rearview mirror.

Gabriel slides left into an alley, gets it under control

and SCREAMS toward the other side. A black Suburban

pulls up, closing off the alley. He slides to a stop and

slams it into reverse. Backwards at 60-plus miles per

hour.

Gabriel reaches in the passenger floorboard and pulls up

a duffel bag. He unzips it, and withdraws what the

Marines call a SAW -- a Belgian-designed machine gun,

compact but with 1500 rounds of Swiss cheese action per

minute, powerful enough for the U.S. to replace the M-60.

Gabriel looks behind them, another black Suburban has

blocked them in. The one from the other side and a third

comes toward them down the alley.

The speedometer needle is pegged at 0 as they SCREAM

backwards.

Gabriel unfolds the stock and then withdraws a 100-round

box wrapped in white tape and printed with AP. He clips

it and pulls back the bolt. He grabs the wheel from

Stan.

ANGLE ON LAMBO

As the Diablo slams backwards into the Suburban at sixty

mph. Bam.

Gabriel unbuckles himself and stands up through the open

roof and UNLOADS FULL-AUTO into the Suburban. The armor-

piercing SHELLS PENETRATE the Armalite GLASS, RIPPING the

occupants to shreds.

Gabriel turns, FIRING at the other Suburban.

Stanley slides under Gabriel as Gabriel steps into the

passenger side. The wheels spin, the Lambo is wedged

under the Suburban.

Gabriel continues to BLAST FULL-AUTO, tearing the

Suburban to shrapnel.

Finally the mortally wounded but still kicking

Lamborghini tears free of the Suburban and rockets head- on

toward the other. Stanley drives like a maniac.

Gabriel RIPS it on FULL-AUTO, meatloafing the driver.

The Suburban veers into the wall. Smack.

Stanley whips beside it and Gabriel STRAFES down the

side, opening it up. Stan whips right onto a main

street.

More Suburbans head at them. Stan SCREAMS left into

another alley. Through the cross streets whipping by at

100 mph, we see Suburbans parallel to them.

Stan cranks his wheel right.

The Lambo rolls to a stop and Gabriel hops out, running

at the Suburbans.

After a moment of all-out GI Joe-style blitzkrieg, it's

over.

Gabriel walks to a body lying in the street.    He turns

over the body and looks at the face.

Gabriel walks back to one of the burning Suburbans where

Stanley stands.

Gabriel pulls out his H&K, points it at Stanley.

FADE IN:

Stanley is working at his terminal.

She walks over to him and kneels down, places her hand on

his leg, looks up at him.

She doesn't move.

They look at each other.    Stanley turns toward the

computer screens.

FADE IN:

as it quickly unwinds.

EXT. RIVER - MORNING

Reisman, dressed in your average, fly-fishing garb,

stands in the shallow water of a wide river, thinking he

has contained the situation, is doing what he enjoys

most. He rewinds the reel and flicks it out again; the

hook sails into the distance.

A huge Cohiba cigar hangs from his satisfied grin.

Faintly, we hear the WHINE OF MACHINERY. Jim hears it,

too, odd since we are so far in the boonies. He looks

around, then up and we PUSH IN TO a CLOSEUP.

REISMAN'S POV

An evil-looking, camouflaged gunship suddenly crests the

hill directly above him, ROTORS THUMPING.

BACK TO SCENE

Reisman ducking, his cigar falling from his mouth, has to

fight to hold on to his ridiculous fishing hat.

ANGLE FROM ABOVE HELICOPTER

Water sprays everywhere as it hovers.

Slowly it drifts over to the bank and lowers where it

touches down briefly, the side door slides open.

ANGLE (SLOW MOTION)

as Gabriel steps out and walks TOWARD us.     The copter

lifts off behind him.

BACK TO SCENE

Reisman drops his rod and digs into the fishing box at

his right. Gabriel saunters toward him as the helicopter

disappears over the rise. Reisman is not happy.

Gabriel looks around, suddenly realizing something.

Gabriel starts to laugh.      Reisman doesn't catch the joke.

CLOSEUP - REISMAN

Grimaces, not thinking it is funny.

WIDER

Gabriel pulls out his H&K, dangling it by his side.

Gabriel shoots Reisman in the chest.     He falls into the

water.

