EXT. PARIS - DAY

CRANE DOWN from a view of Paris on a misty day.   Cool,

gray and beautiful.

A taxi stops by the curb of a wide, cobbled street. All

around there is bustle and activity, with cars and people

hurrying about their business.

The door opens and a pair of exquisitely shaped female

legs in Christian Louboutin high heels swing out.

INT. GARE DE L'EST, PARIS - DAY

WE FOLLOW the legs up the steps, across the concourse,

through the station. Men turn and stare.

CARA MASON (30, stunning) shows no sign of noticing. She

wears dark glasses and carries a traveling bag in one

hand, a copy of the International Herald Tribune in the

other.

INT. BRASSERIE, GARE DE L'EST - DAY

A YOUNG WAITER wiping down the bar stops to watch Cara

enter and take a seat at a table slightly set apart.

An OLDER WAITER approaches her. They exchange a few

words and he walks toward the bar.

A MESSENGER clad in leather, wearing a motorcycle helmet,

enters the cafe and looks around. He consults a

photograph.

His eyes land on Cara. He walks over and holds out a

document-sized envelope.

As the messenger walks away she opens the folder and

shakes out the contents. There is a ticket for the

Orient Express and a handwritten letter...

She spreads it out on the table like a precious treasure

map. Her beautiful forehead creases with concentration as

she reads...

She looks up. Takes out a small makeup mirror and holds

it in front of her face to glance around behind her...

Cara scans the rest of the letter.

CAMERA glides down to see the signature at the bottom:

"Love, Alexander."

We barely have time to read this before Cara's perfectly

manicured hand crumples the letter, places it in a saucer

and sets fire to it.

The YOUNG WAITER hurries over, alarmed.

Cara is already gathering her things and walking away.

INT. GARE DE L'EST STATION - MOMENTS LATER

As Cara walks toward the platform...

Her eyes scan the platform.

CARA'S POV

Men of various shapes and sizes are boarding "The Orient

Express." She pauses only long enough to assess and

discard: too old, too young, too thin, too overweight...

Her gaze comes to rest on a WELL-DRESSED FRENCH MAN.

Medium height, medium build. Standing alone. Examining

his ticket.

Cara glances at her reflection critically in the polished

glass window of the train. Adjusts her hair and dress.

Satisfied with what she sees, she turns and starts toward

the WELL-DRESSED FRENCH MAN like a cat stalking prey.

The CAMERA admiringly FOLLOWS her silky approach.

The FRENCH MAN hears the click of her heels and looks up.

His mouth falls open...

HIS WIFE arrives and shuts it for him.

With a regretful backward glance at Cara, he allows

himself to be dragged away.

Frustrated, Cara turns and casts about for another

possibility.

She spots a TOUSLE HAIRED MAN seated on a bench.

Tousle Hair gathers his bags to get on the train.

Encouraged, Cara moves to cut him off.

As Tousle Hair stands up REVEAL... he's six foot seven.

Cara stops short, irritated. The MAN behind her boarding

the train is fumbling with his suitcase and doesn't

notice. BAM he walks straight into her.

FRANK TAYLOR (30's, amiable) is a cheerful American

tourist. Open face, completely lacking in guile.

Frank continues to mutter apologies as he walks gingerly

around Cara and boards the train.

Cara watches him with thinly veiled contempt. Frank is a

man of average size, average build... she peers over her

glasses at him. And her expression slowly changes. She

follows him onto the train.

ANGLE ON

A GOOD-LOOKING ENGLISHMAN loitering further down the

platform, reading the Herald Tribune. Or rather, not

reading it. He's been watching Cara. He lowers the

paper and climbs onto the train through a different door.

EXT. PARIS - DAY

The gleaming Orient Express pulls out of the station and

gets underway.

INT. ORIENT EXPRESS - AFTERNOON

The train is moving.

The thick carpet, the mellow wood of the inlaid panels,

the subtlety of the Lalique mirrors and the softly lit

lamps all inspire a feeling of great luxury.

Frank looks vaguely out of place, sitting by the window

in his casual jeans and pullover sweater. He's wrapped

up in a dog-eared paperback spy novel. So wrapped up

that he barely notices Cara sit down opposite him.

She crosses her legs.   He glances up.

Slowly, nonchalantly, she takes her coat off.   Then the

headscarf tied around her neck.

FOLLOW her sensual movements in TIGHT CLOSE UP. The

effect is as if she's performing a tantalizing strip

tease.

Frank is captivated to the point of being unsettled.

She takes off her glasses to reveal stunning eyes.

She goes to remove her mock-turtleneck sweater.   The

zipper seems to give her trouble.

Without bothering to struggle she sits up in her seat and

leans toward Frank.

Frank is barely able to respond.

Frank finally moves into action.   He sets his book down

and leans closer.

Awkwardly he reaches towards Cara's beautiful neck. He

attempts to unwind the trapped thread of fabric. But the

zipper resists.

She slides forward on her seat, to get even closer.

The train car sways slightly and throws Frank off

balance. He tugs sharply and the zipper suddenly gives--

with a tearing sound.

Frank freezes, looking down at the zipper still in his

fingers.

Cara's eyes flash fury for a brief moment.

Reluctantly, Frank continues with the zipper. The

tearing sound continues as he lowers the zipper, inch by

inch.

First her neck, then her throat, then her cleavage are

gradually uncovered. The zipper keeps going downward.

No sign of anything underneath.

Frank is practically sweating.

Finally he uncovers fabric. He finishes unzipping the

sweater and sits back into his seat.

Cara slides it off her shoulders, sensuous as ever.

And settles back into her seat, cat-like. He stares at

her for several moments, at a loss for words.

A white-jacketed STEWARD arrives.

The steward nods and disappears.    Frank just stares.

EXT. MOUNTAINOUS COUNTRYSIDE - SUNSET

The Orient Express plows through the Alps. PUSH IN ON a

window where we see Frank and Cara sitting at a romantic,

candlelit table eating dinner.

INT. DINING CAR - EVENING

Linen tablecloths. Fine china. Frank is one of the only

men in the dining car not in a dinner jacket.

Frank takes out a bottle of pills from his pocket, then

another and another...

He takes one or two pills from each and swallows them

methodically. She watches him.

She looks at all the pills spread out beside his plate.

He hesitates.

Cara is annoyed at this revelation.

Off her questioning look...

Frank nods, matter-of-fact.

A waiter delivers their drinks.

The waiter rolls his eyes and leaves them.    Cara seems

amused by Frank's obliviousness.

She nods toward his well-thumbed paperback.

Beat.

He gazes at her with a glimmer of hope. She's insanely

out of his league. But she's the one flirting with him.

EXT. PARIS, ILE DE LA CITE - EVENING

The magnificent Prefecture de Police on the Ile de la

Cite. A convoy of black Mercedes arrives.

INT. INTERPOL OFFICES, PARIS - EVENING

Footsteps echo in the grand marble hallways.

JOHN ACKERMAN moves down the hall with purpose. British,

Interpol chief inspector. He's the kind of man who

commands respect (think Tommy Lee Jones in The Fugitive.)

MELISSA JONES, his American counterpart matches him step

for step.

GOYAL, (Ackerman's Deputy) closes his cell phone.

INT. INTERPOL CENTRAL BRIEFING ROOM, PARIS - EVENING

Behind the ornate, 17th century doors is a high-tech

amphitheater style briefing room. All glass and steel.

Suited bureaucrats and officers from all over Europe

listen to Ackerman as he leads the meeting from the

podium.

Ackerman clicks a slide projected on a large screen

behind him: a fuzzy photo of a British schoolboy with a

shy grin.

JEAN LUC (French Interpol liaison) looks up skeptically.

A ripple of laughter through the group.

QUINN is the Swiss Interpol liaison. He speaks with the

crisp accent of a man who is fluent in several languages.

He clicks through a series of flashy Powerpoint slides

illustrating Pearce's financial dealings.

Jean Luc leans toward his colleague.

Ms. Jones gives him a glacial stare.

Jean Luc reddens. Oops.   Apparently not every American

fits the stereotype.

Click: A PHOTO of a balding RUSSIAN OLIGARCH emerging

from a limo.

Ackerman smiles coolly at her.

An INTERPOL OFFICER from Germany raises his hand.

Ackerman looks down for a moment, as if it pains him to

answer.

EXT. ALEXANDER'S SEA SIDE VILLA, VENICE - NIGHT

SUPER:   ONE YEAR AGO

Fog covers the skyline, exposing only the slate rooftops

of buildings that haven't changed in centuries. We hear

the sound of water gently lapping the shore.

From out of the mist emerges...

A GUARDACOSTE -- a patrol boat, lights dimmed. It gently

touches the beach. A CARABINIERI officer lowers a ramp.

An INTERPOL TACTICS TEAM in Kevlar and headgear pours out

of the patrol boat.

Ackerman steps off, pulling on a vest.     He nods to Goyal.

They follow the team.

EXT. MAIN GATE OF THE VILLA - MOMENTS LATER

ANGLE ON A SPECIALIST who kneels to open an electric

panel. REVEAL a glass plate with a fingertip shape in

the center. The SPECIALIST places his hand against the

glass: a red light beeps on -- it's a bio-metric lock.

He turns to Ackerman.

Ackerman betrays no impatience. He knows better than to

rush the professionals. He simply nods.

The Specialist opens a tool box filled with sophisticated

gear and gets to work...

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA, PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Wrapping a towel around herself, CARA MASON, the girl

from the train, stares at herself in the bathroom mirror

for a beat. So do we.

She steps out into the lofty master bedroom suite.

In the dressing room, Cara calls out to someone in the

next room.

Cara sits on the bed, drying her hair. On a night table

beside her are keys, a wallet and an expensive MAN'S

WATCH.

Cara pauses; she's heard something.

She walks across the tiled floor to the balcony

overlooking the elevator entrance.

She freezes; six tactics OFFICERS face her with guns

drawn.

ACKERMAN steps up the stairs, pistol in hand. He

gestures at Cara to be quiet and come towards him...

Cara stands stock still for a long instant.   Then...

SLAMS the oaken door of the master bedroom suite in

Ackerman's face, locking it.

She calls out...

ON THE STAIRS

Ackerman shakes the doorknob, cursing; a Tall Commander

calls for the BATTERING RAM which is rushed up the

stairs...

The tactics team CRACKS the door.

Ackerman charges into...

THE BEDROOM

Cara stands frozen beside the man's effects on the night

table. The wallet. The keys. The watch.

On the other side of the room, Ackerman sees an OPEN

WINDOW, which the ocean breeze swings.

Rushing forward he sticks his head out the window.

Hanging outside the window is the rigging for a WINDOW

WASHER'S PLATFORM - a platform that seconds before was

lowered to the sand below.

In the distance, a recently boarded water taxi pulls away

from the dock and sails out into the lagoon.

IN THE BEDROOM

Ackerman turns to face the study.

On the desk is a cup of coffee with steam gently rising

from its surface. A cigarette sits lit in an ashtray,

the smoke curling toward the ceiling.

Ackerman stares at the empty, slowly revolving, chair.

He walks toward CARA, now in custody.      He holds her

defiant gaze for a moment.

Cara looks at him for a moment, then lowers her eyes.

The Tall Commander shepherds the handcuffed Cara down the

stairs and into the elevator.

She wears Alexander's WATCH....

INT. INTERPOL CENTRAL BRIEFING ROOM - RESUME

Ackerman closes the file in front of him on the podium.

Ackerman regards him with aplomb.

Ackerman clicks on a slide.

Cara's face fills the screen behind him.   A murmur runs

through the room. Every man stares.

Ackerman himself glances up at her face with a look of

longing.

HOLD ON CARA'S IMAGE for a moment before we...

EXT. VENICE TRAIN STATION - MORNING

CARA stands alone on the platform amid the bustle of the

station. The gleaming train stretches out behind her.

INT. TRAIN CAR - SAME

Frank's eyes drift open. He glances out the window and

as his vision comes into focus he sees that the train is

stopped. He sits bolt upright.

A CONDUCTOR'S VOICE over the loudspeaker is saying

something in Italian.

Frank stumbles over himself to collect his things:      book,

sweater, pills, etc.

INT. TRAIN AISLE - MOMENTS LATER

Frank struggles down the aisle, bumping into fellow

passengers and apologizing as he goes. All the while

looking around for a sign of Cara...

EXT. VENICE TRAIN STATION - MORNING

Frank steps off the train and glances about at the hive

of activity.

Frank brushes past the GOOD-LOOKING ENGLISHMAN from the

Paris station. Finally he spots her...

FRANK'S POV - Cara with her back turned.

Frank hurries over.

She holds out her valise for him.

He takes it hesitantly. She peers at him over the rims

of her sunglasses with a very slight smile...

EXT. VENICE, GRAND CANAL - DAY

A beauty shot of the Grand Canal: magnificent palaces and

churches soar upwards on either side in all their glory.

PUSH IN ON A launch labelled Danieli, travelling fast

over the water. Cara shakes her head to let the wind

ruffle her hair.

CAMERA CONTINUES PAST HER TO REVEAL Frank, clutching the

railing beside her, afraid to wake up.

INT. DANIELI HOTEL, ENTRANCE HALL - DAY

Frank leads us through the distinctive, revolving glass

door into the low-ceilinged entrance lobby.

DISCOVER Cara at the desk talking to the receptionist.

She nods at Frank. For a second, the receptionist cannot

keep the surprise out of his eyes. This glamorous,

superbly dressed creature is married to a dull, American

tourist in a T-shirt?

He recovers his composure and alters his manner at once.

He gives her a large gold key and nods to a porter to

take the luggage. Frank hurries to catch up with her.

THE RECEPTIONIST he watches them go.

INT. STAIRCASE HALL, DANIELI - DAY

Together, they follow the porter into the ravishing, open

central hall of the hotel, with the great, ornate

staircase soaring up and up, past Gothic galleries and

finely carved balustrades, beckoning.

Frank and Cara trail the porter across the marble floor.

Frank glances about, dazed with delight and amazement.

INT. DOGE'S SUITE - DAY

Under a gilded and coffered ceiling, portraits of the

Doges flank a vast, hooded fireplace. The porter is

showing them round the huge apartment, opening and

closing doors.

He glances at Cara; she doesn't look like a woman who

spends a lot of time in the kitchen.

The porter throws open a pair of French windows.   He lets

the view speak for itself.

They step forward. The whole of St. Mark's Basin and the

Venetian lagoon are laid out below them.

The Porter looks expectantly to the "husband" for a tip.

Frank doesn't get it.

An awkward beat. Cara takes a few Euros from her purse

and tips him. The Porter exits.

EXT. BALCONY, DANIELI HOTEL - DAY

Frank stands on the balcony in a daze. He stares down at

the Molo and across St. Mark's Basin to San Georgio

Maggiore. Cara joins him.

Frank opens his mouth to answer.    Then laughs.

Frank looks at her for a beat, barely able to breathe.

His face falls.   He tries to cover up his reaction.

Before he can say more, the buzzer sounds.

He goes back inside to answer the door.

Cara remains alone on the balcony, immobile, as if

holding her breath. She's waiting... listening.

INT. DOGE'S SUITE - DAY

Frank walks across to the door. There is a small spyhole

and he looks through it. The porter stands there with a

trolley. Frank opens the door.

The porter wheels the trolley in and starts to carry the

bags into the bedroom.

EXT. BALCONY - MOMENTS LATER

Cara relaxes again as she hears Frank approach.   He steps

outside on the balcony.

She turns to face him.

He shakes his head.

INT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - DAY

CAMERA TRACKS WITH GOYAL as he weaves through a sprawling

mess of personnel and equipment, cell phones, computers

and cables from various national agencies. The United

Nations-aspect of the Task Force gives it impressive

scope but also results in a Tower-of-Babel effect.

The calm eye of the storm is Ackerman.

ANGLE ON QUINN who quietly slips out of the room.

EXT. PRIVATE LANDING STRIP, VENICE - DAY

A Gulfstream G550 executive jet banks over the Venetian

coast and comes in for a landing...

Wheels down. Stairway unfolds. The man who steps off

the plane is dressed in a hand-tailored Italian suit and

shoes that cost more than some cars. He's flanked by two

bodyguards.

IVAN DEMIDOV.   In the flesh.

EXT. VENICE - DAY

CAMERA floats over the rooftops toward the penthouse of a

ultra-high end business hotel.

INT. DEMIDOV'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Demidov sips a glass of red wine. The view from his room

rivals the one at the Danieli but Demidov pays no

attention. He's busy scanning his emails on his

Blackberry.

Knock, knock. A thick-necked BODYGUARD in the background

goes to answer the door. A moment later...

He ushers in Quinn, the Swiss Interpol agent.

Demidov swirls his glass.

He smiles pleasantly at Quinn, then, on a dime, he turns

back to business.

Quinn takes out an envelope and passes it over.

He flips it open and examines the contents.     WE GLIMPSE a

photo of CARA and some text.

Demidov makes a gesture and a second BODYGUARD with a

SCAR on his face gives Quinn an envelope filled with

cash.

Quinn tucks it away discreetly, as if embarrassed by the

directness of the pay off.

Demidov looks at Quinn thoughtfully.

Quinn smiles tightly.   He's ready to get out of there.

EXT. THE LIDO, VENICE - DAY

A clear, bright winter day at the beach. Devoid of

tourists, the famous stretch is a completely different

Venice from the one we're used to seeing.

Sandbanks stretch out into the dark green sea.

Cara and Frank walk on a deserted patch of sand.   The

wind wraps her light sun dress around her body,

intermittently hugging her perfect curves.

She glances at him slyly over her movie star shades.

A sound of voices and laughter drift toward them. Up

ahead on the beach they see a group of Italians in formal

clothes. A woman wears a white bridal dress.

She takes his arm and steers him toward a bistro with

sidewalk tables.

EXT. BISTRO - AFTERNOON

Cara and Frank are seated.    A bottle of Orvieto rests on

the table.

Cara looks at him curiously.

She shakes her head and takes a sip of wine.

Frank glances at her wrist.

She looks up at him.

She runs her fingertip over the face of the watch. Then,

impulsively unclasps it and reaches for Frank's hand.

She puts it on Frank's wrist, over his protests.

He hesitates.   She means it.    He closes the clasp.

He feels the heft of it on his wrist. Admires it for a

moment. It really is a beautiful watch. She settles

back in her chair, pleased with herself.

He looks up and sees her smiling at him.

LONG SHOT of Frank and Cara framed by the sunset. A

romantic dinner for two. They could easily be lovers or

honeymooners...

In the foreground REVEAL somebody watching them.   The

good-looking Englishman is there, hovering...

INT. DOGE'S SUITE - NIGHT

The key sounds in the lock and the door swings open.

Frank and Cara tumble in together, laughing, a little

tipsy.

He glances at the sofa and that sobers him up, reminding

him where he's going to sleep. However...

He watches Cara drop her wrap over a chair and kicks off

her shoes. She throws open the French doors to the

balcony.

Frank bypasses the sofa-bed and follows her outside.

EXT. BALCONY - NIGHT

Cara looks out across the lagoon.

Frank appears beside her.

A movement in the street down below catches her eye. She

studies the Ponte del Vin intently, seeing something.

Cara turns abruptly to Frank and presses her body against

his. He's taken by surprise but willingly responds to

her advance, wrapping his arms around her back.

They exchange a long, passionate kiss.

VIDEO POV OF THE SAME

REVEAL the lens of a PALM-SIZED VIDEO CAMERA peering out

from behind a vendor's cart in the street below.

Frank, his face slightly obscured, kisses Cara.

WE HEAR the WHIRRING of the video camera.

I/E. DOGE'S SUITE/BALCONY - RESUME

Still kissing, Cara leads Frank back into the hotel room...

EXT. VIDEO POV FROM THE STREET - CONTINUOUS

The silhouettes of Cara and Frank disappear into the

hotel room as...

INT. DOGE'S SUITE - CONTINUOUS

Cara closes the curtains.   She pulls away from him.

Her composure changes; the passion is gone.   The

expression on her face is matter-of-fact.

She turns and walks toward her bedroom...

Frank stares after her in stunned disappointment.

She pauses at the door.   Her expression softens slightly.

Then she disappears into her bedroom. The door closes

behind her and we hear the click of the lock.

Frank remains standing alone, immobile.

After several moments he sits on the sofa.    There are two

folded blankets and a pillow.

From within Cara's bedroom we can hear her voice, muffled

but still audible...

He approaches the door, straining to hear more but her

words fade out.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Frank gets ready for bed. He takes off the watch Cara

gave him and something on the back of it catches his eye.

It's engraved with a name:

ALEXANDER PEARCE

He stares at the name for a moment, then unzips his

travel bag. Takes out his pills. Pops a bunch. Brushes

his teeth.

He pauses and stares at himself in the mirror as if

wondering how in the world he ended up here. It's like

he's staring into the face of stranger.

He puts his tooth brush down and pads off to sleep on the

sofa.

INT. DOGE'S SUITE - MORNING

The sound of the SHOWER reaches Frank in his sleep.     He

blinks his eyes.

The morning is misty.   He closes the balcony doors.

Cara's bedroom door is ajar. Frank struggles not to

notice. He turns to his bed and begins folding sheets.

Then he hears the sound of water running in the shower.

He glances over at the door ajar, the sound of the

shower... it's too much.

Frank walks to the bedroom door.   He pushes it open.

The door to Cara's bathroom is open.   The outline of her

naked body is visible in the shower.   She lifts her wet

hair and soaps the back of her neck.

She sees him.   Cara is so stunned she simply stands

there.

Frank walks to the shower and opens the glass door.

Walking in, he LIFTS Cara against the glass, clutching at

her slithery body, kissing her frantically...she kisses

him back with ardor, wrapping her dripping legs around

his back...

INT. DOGE'S SUITE - MORNING

Frank is sleeping. A smile on his face.          A shadow passes

over him as somebody walks past.

A man's trouser leg is visible in the foreground, moving

slowly toward Frank. Then...

CLANG!   Frank wakes with a start to see......

A WAITER is setting up breakfast on a cart.

Frank stares in surprise at the food spread out before

him.

He looks around the suite.     He is alone. He nods.

The waiter has finished.     He hovers for a moment...

Finally Frank takes the hint and gives the man a one Euro

tip. He takes it with disdain and leaves.

Frank throws off his blanket and sits up.

INT. CARA'S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Frank strolls into the room, barefoot, in his boxers.

The bed is unmade.

Cara has left a shirt over a chair... he picks it up and

holds it to his face for a moment to enjoy her lingering

scent.

He notices a newspaper... a copy of The International

Herald Tribune is open on her bedside table. He lifts it

to see what Cara had been reading.

There is a personal ad that has been lightly dotted with

a ball point pen. The message is just a list of words:

"TOM CORRY NOW IN A MICA CAN IF FEELING PEST STILL

AROUND."

The dots single out letters in a code... Frank picks up the

pen and puts a faint line through the groups of

unselected letters to reveal the message:

"Tomorrow 11 Caffe Pesaro"

Frank studies this for a moment.

THE BUZZER SOUNDS

Laying the paper on the table, Frank walks to the door.

Frank reaches for the doorknob... then pauses.   Breakfast

again?

He quietly slides the chain on.    Peers through the

spyhole.

SPYHOLE POV -- Two tough-looking men in suits stand

there: most definitely not hotel staff. One has a scar

on his face... Demidov's BODYGUARDS.

Frank is frozen.

Scarface takes out a silenced PISTOL and mutters

something in Russian to his partner. He produces a LOCK

PICK SET and crouches out of frame.

Frank hears the sound of scratching metal and clicking

tumblers inside the lock. He looks around wildly. Sees

the KEY on the entryway table and reaches for it...

Ch-chunk. The Russian picks the lock and slowly starts

to open the door. The chain stops it. A pause.

A moment later a KNIFE comes through the crack and starts

to slide the chain...

Frank stares at the knife; he has to act fast...

Frank throws his shoulder against the door. The knife

clatters to the floor as the door slams shut. Frank jams

his KEY into the lock and turns the bolt into place.

There's angry confusion on the other side of the door.

Frank grabs a heavy glass ashtray and swings it at the

back of the key-- breaking it off in the lock.

Frank scrambles out of the way...

The sound of metal scraping in the lock. Russian CURSING

can be heard just outside. A heavy blow as they try to

shoulder the door open...

Frank looks around desperately for an escape.

The bathroom?   The sitting room?   Adjoining doors?   None.

There's nowhere to go.

Frank bolts for the balcony in his bare feet.

He scrambles outside as...

POP! POP! POP! Bullets rip through the wood and metal,

blasting the lock assembly apart. The door bursts open.

EXT. BALCONY - DAY

Frank looks down and stares at the

DIZZYING SIX STORY DROP

to the cobblestones of the Ponte del Vin below.

Guests sit on their balconies with their morning coffee.

Three balconies over, Frank sees the rooftop of the

modern wing of the hotel.

IN THE SUITE

The two TOUGHS rapidly move through the room, searching.

Nyet, Nyet.

The one place they haven't checked...

THE BALCONY

Frank puts one bare foot on the stonework. He grimaces

as he HEAVES himself onto the railing of the balcony

adjacent to his.

He hangs desperately, flailing, 100 feet over the street

below. He gets a tentative hold...

A PALLID FRENCH WOMAN drops her coffee and screams.

The Russians sprint out to the balcony.    They spot

Frank...

Who shoves the Pallid Woman inside, struggles past her

breakfast table, and prepares to leap again-- but slips

on the spilled coffee.

Bullets shatter China around him. He cuts his foot on a

broken plate. He grabs his bleeding foot.

Another round of shots ring out.    They don't seem to

care.

Frank goes over the railing with another awkward HEAVE.

His pursuers scale the adjoining stone work and step onto

the Pallid Woman's balcony.

This time Frank lands in the lap of a BURLY WELSHMAN.

The Burly Welshman PUNCHES Frank in the stomach, which

drops him out of the way of...

TWO SHOTS

Which explode into the Welshman's shoulder.   He cries out

and falls down on top of Frank.

The Russians stand on the Pallid Woman's balcony and

prepare to JUMP...

as Frank crawls out from under the wounded Welshman and

peers over the next balcony...

Which is at least TWENTY FEET from the roof.

He misjudged the distance.

INT. THE WELSHMAN'S ROOM - SECONDS LATER

Frank runs through the hotel room, past the Welshman's

wife to the door.

A SHOT behind him and pounding feet send him out into the

corridor past a room service steward to an...

ELEVATOR

Which   will not do but the--

INT.    SERVICE STAIRCASE - SECONDS LATER

STAIRS will and Frank flies down the steps, three at a

time, hearing his pursuers above him, running harder than

he's run in his entire life...

But he's slow and they gain on him enough to aim weapons

through the railing...

P-CHING, several bullets ricochet like pinballs in the

metal stairwell.

Frank pants as he pushes out a side door...

EXT. RIO DEL VIN CANAL, VENICE - DAY

Frank sprints along the edge of the canal, dodging

tourists and children, vendors and locals. He spots a

VENDOR'S three wheel BICYCLE and jumps on.

As he pedals, he realizes it's too slow so he JUMPS

OFF...

and FALLS - a painful spill, he cuts his hand - but

clambers to his feet as the Russians bear down. Running

up hidden stairs he finds the roof of a shop on the Riva

Degli Schiavoni...

EXT. RIVA DEGLI SCHIAVONI, VENICE - DAY

Frank runs down the ridge of the roof.   A silenced shot

hits roof tile nearby and throws him off balance. He

FALLS...

...bumping down the other side of the roof until, as he

topples over the edge, he thrusts a hand at the gutter,

smashing his head against the wall. He drops onto the

pavement along the edge of the small canal.

He doubles back towards the lagoon. Looking back, he sees

the men still in pursuit.

He turns into the Campo San Zaccaria, scattering the

flapping and fluttering PIGEONS.   The Gondolieri and

their passengers watch the half-naked man run past and

cheer.

The Russians force their way past the pedestrians.    They

have almost caught him when...

INT. LEATHER SHOP - DAY

Ducking inside a leather shop, Frank heads straight for

the back entrance and finds it.

He stands on the cobblestones. Blood streams from his

forehead as well as his hand. He has

SECONDS

to decide which way to go. The alley is long and narrow

on either side. An awning above. Clear sight lines.

The back of the shop upends the Grand Canal.

EXT. ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER

The Russians burst out the back.

There is no sign of Frank.

Scarface looks at the Canal. He walks to the edge of the

water and SPRAYS gun fire atop it. Nothing.

HIGH ANGLE OF SCENE

Frank lies huddled on his back IN THE AWNING behind the

leather shop, barely able to control his frantic

breathing. He's mere feet away from the men who are

trying to kill him...

He looks up and sees: the scowling face of an Italian

WOMAN peering out over her window box.

Frank raises a desperate finger to his lips.    A prayer

that she won't give him away.

She looks at him disapprovingly.     Then disappears back

inside.

CLOSE ON FRANK as he waits, his heart pounding.

Seconds tick past...   is he safe?

Rrrrrip! A black cylinder, like the barrel of a gun,

tears through the awning fabric inches from his Frank's

head.

He cries out. The awning rips and dumps him down hard

onto the cobblestones below...

A MOMENTARY BLACKOUT

Frank opens his eyes and sees two pairs of black boots

that belong to... A PAIR OF CARBINIERI who stand over him.

One of them holds a nightstick.

They stare down at the bloodied tourist in his underpants

lying at their feet. They've seen stranger things.

INT. POLIZIA "QUESTURA" (POLICE STATION) - DAY

Frank sits alone with a blanket over his shoulders. Most

of the blood has been wiped from his wound and he has a

rough bandage on his head.

From down the hallway a cheery stubble-faced POLICE

OFFICER, DOMENICO (30's, animated), walks into the room

where Frank is waiting.

Domenico laughs, talking on his cell phone as he enters.

Frank stands.

Dominico glances over his shoulder.

Frank sits back down heavily.    Domenico sits on the edge

of a desk.

Domenico picks up Frank's statement and glances at it.

Domenico looks at mild-mannered Frank sitting there in

his boxers. The story seems unlikely.

Domenico looks at Frank a little harder.     Decides this

guy is not making all this up.

He consults a piece of paper.

Frank is quiet.   Domenico playfully points at him.

Domenico considers for a moment.

The infectious grin again lights up Domenico's face.

Domenico picks up the phone and dials a number. He talks

in brisk Italian, listens again and replaces the

receiver.

Pause.

Domenico looks him over.

He leaves Frank alone again.

Frank stands and half-heartedly follows him to the

doorway.

He spots something in the adjoining room; a computer that

has been left on. He wanders over and looks at the

screen.

An idea comes into Frank's head... he looks around. Nobody

is watching him. He glances at the inscription on the

WATCH...

Then quickly sits down. He does a search for "WANTED

INTERNATIONAL CRIMINALS" and types in the name:

ALEXANDER PEARCE.

An immediate hit in the data base. Alexander Pearce's

page fills the screen. The caption reads:

#6 on INTERPOL'S MOST WANTED LIST.

In place of a photograph there is just a black outline of

a man's head.

Frank is about to scan for more information when he hears

Domenico returning. He quickly steps back into the room

where he was left...

DOMENICO enters carrying a garish SWEAT SUIT.   He hands

it to Frank.

Frank looks at the clothes.

INT. HOSPITAL SCANNING ROOM, PADUA - EVENING

Frank lies flat on his back.

A NURSE leans over him with a kindly expression.

She slides him slowly into the mouth of an MRI scanning

machine head first. It hums to life.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR, DANIELI - EVENING

Domenico whistles as a hotel clerk escorts him to to the

Doge's suite.

The Clerk knocks.   The door is opened by Ivan Demidov.

Demidov steps back, holding the door open.

INT. DOGE'S SUITE, DANIELI - EVENING

Demidov watches Domenico, who sniffs around.

Domenico gets down on his hands and knees and looks

around. He spots something under the sofa and fishes it

out with his penknife... a spent bullet casing.

He puts it in a plastic bag, pleased with himself.

Demidov catches his eye. He smiles at him.

Domenico stands and takes his leave.

As he and the clerk exit, Scarface steps out from the

other room. Off Demidov's look, he leaves the suite to

follow...

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM, PADUA - NIGHT

Frank lies on the bed. There are clean bandages on his

injuries.

The television drones on the wall: an Italian reality

show. A WOMAN holds her hands over her eyes. The HOST

taunts her:

Frank waits for the surprise.

INT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - NIGHT

Ackerman is tilted back with his eyes closed like he has

a headache.

Jones enters with a file labelled:    "Frank Taylor".

He looks up at Goyal.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Frank sits up in his bed, reading.

The PHONE RINGS.

INT. TERRACE FLAT, PADUA - EVENING

INTERCUT: Domenico - in his terrace flat. He wears a T-

shirt and holds a glass of wine. Loud Italian pop music

plays in the background.

Frank glances around uncomfortably.

Frank hangs up, shaking his head.

In the restful silence he hears a DISTANT BANG. A

gunshot? A door slam? Nervous, he gets up and goes to

the door...

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Frank looks right and left. The corridor is empty and

silent, lit by strip lights set on low.

Just as he's about to close the door again, Frank notices

that there is a label stuck there with his name on it,

just above the room number.

He struggles with the label for a few seconds, tearing it

off.

He sticks the label on the door to an empty room

opposite.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Frank goes to the sink and splashes water on his face.

Stares at himself for several moments, as he did in the

bathroom at the Danieli. He's lost in thought.

Then...

He hears the clang of a metal pushcart being wheeled

along. Some footsteps approach. There are voices speaking

an unfamiliar language, maybe Russian...

Russian?

Frank scrambles for his clothes. He fishes out

Domenico's phone number from a pocket and races to the

phone. Then freezes, listening:

The footsteps move away slightly... there is the sound of a

door opening. The door across the hall.

Seconds pass. The door is closed again.      The footsteps

move down the hall, slowly fading away.

Frank punches in the policeman's number and grips the

receiver. It rings.

INT. DOMENICO'S TERRACE FLAT - NIGHT

A saucepot simmers on the stove. The phone RINGS.

Behind it is a WINDOW - pierced by one circular bullet

hole.

The music still plays.

As our gaze drifts downwards we see Domenico's bare feet,

prone behind the kitchen island.

The phone RINGS and RINGS...

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Frank is struggling into his clothes. Everything seems to

stick and take forever.

He opens the door a crack and looks down the ward.

Nothing. He moves along the passage, slipping into

doorways and out of the light.

He finds the elevator and jabs at the button.

The light shows it is approaching the floor. It stops.

The doors open. Frank is about to enter it, when

suddenly SOMEBODY STEPS OUT...

An ORDERLY exits and brushes past.

Frank breaths a sigh of relief and steps in.

INT. HOSPITAL ELEVATOR, PADUA - NIGHT

Frank presses the button for Receptione et Terre and

waits an interminable four seconds for the doors to

close.

Slowly the elevator descends... and stops.

The doors open. A big MAN stands with his back to us,

blocking the exit. Frank shrinks away, with nowhere to

hide. The man turns.

He's a MALE NURSE, waiting to get into the lift. He

stands aside to allow Frank to leave. Frank takes a step

out...

...and sees SCARFACE talking to the receptionist.

Hurriedly, Frank reverses back into the elevator.

Then, just before the doors close, Scarface turns... his

eyes meet Frank's. He starts towards the elevator... but

the doors shut first.

The lift stops again. The doors open on the first tier of

the subterranean car park.

Frank leaps off.

INT. UNDERGROUND CAR PARK, PADUA HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Limping and terrified, Frank jogs towards the ramp marked

Uscita in the far corner.

An ENGINE ROAR splits the silence. The lights blind

Frank in the darkness as the car careers towards him.

He falls to his knees.

The car skids to a stop.

The door flies open. He squints. Sitting behind the

wheel, calm and beautiful as ever, is CARA. He stares.

INT. CARA'S CAR - NIGHT

He climbs into the car.    She turns to him as she pulls

out.

He glances anxiously over her shoulder.

Cara drives toward the ramp.     He looks at her.

She stops the car and waits for the metal gate at the top

of the ramp to open. It rises with a loud creaking to

REVEAL...

A BLACK CAR with two men inside. One of them steps out

and ducks under the gate as it rises up.

While he's briefly silhouetted by the car's headlights we

glimpse the outline of an AUTOMATIC WEAPON.

With remarkable sangfroid she cuts the engine and lets

her car roll backwards, gliding silently and perfectly

into a parking spot.

Silence.

They watch the BLACK CAR slowly descend the ramp.   The

Russian with the gun in his hand walks carefully

alongside.

Frank watches, holding his breath.

The sound of another engine cuts through the silence.     A

pair of headlights come up from the level below.

CLOSE ON THE CAR. The MALE NURSE from the elevator is

driving up toward the exit ramp, toward the exit where

the Russians are waiting.

CLOSE ON THE GUNMAN slipping back into the shadows and

readying his gun to fire.

FRANK sees what is about to happen.    His face betrays his

concern.

He reaches for the door.

CLICK. Cara presses the central door lock.      Frank's door

doesn't budge. He looks over at her.

He looks her straight in the eye.    She relents.

She turns over the ignition.

Cara revs the car and pulls out fast, cutting off the

Nurse's car. He leans on the horn.

At the top of the exit ramp, the metal parking gate is

slowly being lowered.

She weaves around the black car, deliberately heading for

the gunman. He opens fire.

BRRRRRAAAP!! Bullets spray wildly, ricocheting off the

walls, shattering windshields... Frank covers his face as a

side-window pops, showering him with glass.

The GUNMAN is forced to jump out of the way as Cara

scrapes the side of her car along the wall. Sparks fly.

The black car burns rubber as it U-turns to follow her.

She guns it up the ramp towards the closing door.

The fence whirs at head height and keeps lowering.    The

black car is closing in behind them.

At the last second he ducks instinctively and closes his

eyes. The gate clips the top of Cara's car with a

tremendous CLANG! Traps it.

Cara presses her foot all the way down on the

accelerator. Smoke pours from the tires.

CRASH!

The black car RAMS them from behind.

A Russian leans out the window and fires at the outlines

of Cara and Frank's HEADS. Bullets shatter the back

window.

Cara pushes Frank's head down. The sound of burning

gears as the engine hits its limit.

Suddenly, scraping paint, Cara's car SPRINGS forward,

jetting out onto the street.

The fence drops further and shudders to a halt. The

black car is trapped. The Russians can only watch as

Cara speeds away.

INT. CARA'S CAR - NIGHT

The quiet hum of the autostrade is the only sound in the

car.

Frank sits in a daze.   He turns to her.

Cara turns sharply.

Frank holds up his wrist.

She hesitates.   A pause.

Frank doesn't respond.

Frank looks at her. Then relents, leaning his head back

against the support and closing his eyes.

EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF VENICE - MORNING

The car is parked along a muddy canal. Beside it runs a

small disconnected set of palazzos. Cara shakes Frank.

He won't wake up.

He's snoring.   She pinches his nose closed...

He startles awake.   She smiles mischievously.

ON A SIDE STREET

He follows her past abandoned tricycles and very old men

sitting on stone steps.

Frank steps over a greenish puddle.

She pauses before a run-down palazzo.

INT. RUN DOWN PALAZZO, HALL - NIGHT

The narrow hall is dark and shabby.

Cara walks up the stairs to a door on the landing.     She

opens it with a key.

INT. PEARCE'S "SAFE HOUSE" - NIGHT

It is completely dark inside. The two of them maneuver

in the darkness. The sound of a hand bumping against a

wall.

Finally somebody finds the light switch and--

CARA holds a .38 Taurus PISTOL in front of her.

Frank happens to be right in her line of sight.   He

flinches.

She quickly directs the gun away from him.    Frank leans

over, catching his breath.

Cara starts to giggle.   Frank starts to laugh too.

INT. KITCHEN, PEARCE'S "SAFE HOUSE" - NIGHT

The apartment appears as if it was leased, stocked and

then never set foot in again. Brand new appliances that

have never been used.

Frank walks over to a flat screen TV and curiously peels

off the protective clear film... He looks up and sees:

Cara has her head inside the OVEN.

She pulls out, a flashlight in her mouth.

Frank watches her walk over to the FUSE BOXES.

MINUTES LATER

Frank pokes through the cupboards. Stocked with fine

olives, tins of expensive smoked fish, viands, stewed

fruit from orchards in France.

He opens the icebox. Inside is frozen meat and fish.     He

pulls out one package of frozen orange steaks - it is

labelled "BARRACUDA, CAUGHT ANTIGUA, 8/07".

Cara has poured herself a glass of wine.

Frank looks at the steak...

INT. DINING AREA, PEARCE'S "SAFE HOUSE" - LATER

CLOSE ON THE FISH -- now seasoned, grilled and surrounded

by whipped sweet potatoes, beets and almonds.

Frank places a plate before Cara who sits with her wine

at Pearce's oak table. She looks appreciatively at her

plate.

Frank smiles and pours himself a glass of wine.   Cara

takes a bite.

Frank savors a bite of his meal.

Cara laughs.   She clinks his glass.

They watch one another eat for several moments.

She sets down her fork.   Leans back.

She takes a big gulp of wine.     Moves over to the sofa.

She lapses into silence.    Frank comes and sits beside

her.

She doesn't answer.   Which is an answer.

A beat.

She shifts deeper into the leather cushions as if

reliving a memory of sensual pleasure.

She frowns into her empty wine glass.    Frank slides a

little closer.

He looks into her eyes. They are sitting very close on

the sofa. The lights are low. The mood is romantic...

Frank puts an arm over her shoulders and leans in for a

kiss--

Cara stands abruptly.

He looks   up at her, questioningly.

Frank doesn't respond.

He does. His humiliation complete, he rises with as much

dignity as he can muster and carries the plates into the

kitchen.

Cara looks after him... exasperated yet already sorry for

being so blunt. She is about to say something when...

Her CELL PHONE RINGS.     A special ring.

She answers right away.

EXT. PIAZZA SAN MARCO - EVENING

The ENGLISHMAN strolls the Piazza San Marco.    FOLLOW HIM

from behind as he speaks into his phone.

IN THE SAFE HOUSE

Cara narrows her focus. She walks away from Frank,

stealing away into the bedroom. Her heart is beating.

INT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - EVENING

The WAVE PATTERNS of the man's voice shimmer on a

computer monitor. Goyal and Ackerman stand watching,

hanging on every word.

A HORN-RIMMED AIDE zeroes in on a MAP screen.

The screen gives him a map of VENICE.      Then zooms into a

map of the SAN MARCO district...

INT. BEDROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - CONTINUOUS

Cara holds one finger in her ear, listening intently.

EXT. PIAZZA SAN MARCO - EVENING

The Englishman passes the Lagoon to his left, and enters

an enormous courtyard, the Arco Foscari. He looks down

at his watch...

INT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - EVENING

The computer map hones in on the PIAZZA SAN MARCO...

Goyal is already out the door and Ackerman grabs his

Kevlar vest and follows, racing down the steps...

INT. BEDROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - CONTINUOUS

Cara folds her arms as she listens.

She pouts, only partially joking.

EXT. PIAZZA SAN MARCO - EVENING

At last The Englishman arrives before the lower colonnade

of the DOGE'S PALACE, the seat of medieval Venetian civic

government. It is a wonder of Gothic architecture with

spires piercing the blue sky.

He gazes up at it for a moment.

The Englishman is at the Ponte del Suspiri-- the "Bridge

of Sighs."

INT. BEDROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - EVENING

Cara's expression softens.

OUTSIDE THE BEDROOM DOOR

Frank listens to the end of Cara's conversation, his

forehead creased with concern.

EXT. PIAZZA SAN MARCO, CAFE - NIGHT

The Englishman closes his phone and disappears into the

crowd.

INT. BEDROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - NIGHT

Cara speaks urgently.

The line is dead.

EXT. PONTE DEL SUSPIRI - SECONDS LATER

A silent caravan of three black SUV's - a strange sight

in Venice - pull up in perimeter around the Bridge of

Sighs and skids to a stop.

Ackerman and the others leap out, looking around.   Then

Ackerman sees it:

The Englishman's CELL PHONE, sitting on the cobblestones.

They approach.   Goyal kneels to pick it up with a plastic

bag.

Ackerman looks around.

INT. BEDROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - NIGHT

Holding her now unimportant phone in her hand, Cara draws

herself up and walks into the

SITTING AREA

Frank lies asleep on the couch.

Cara walks to the kitchen and retrieves the Tuscan

Cookbook. Thinking herself unobserved, she opens it.

A PAGE has been turned down.   A recipe for LAMB.

Cara pulls out her red, felt-tipped pen. She finds a

sentence in the recipe with a single pen dot beside it.

Tapping her pen under letters on the page, Cara works out

the code, memorizes the contents of the message and

closes the book.

ON FRANK

His eyes are open.

EXT. VENICE - MORNING

Establishing shots of the city as it comes to life in the

winter time.

Boats are pushed out into the canals...

Trash is hosed from the cobblestone streets...

Tables and chairs are set out at sidewalk cafes, waiting

for the tourists to come...

INT. SITTING ROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - MORNING

With an unfamiliar gentleness, Cara approaches Frank

sleeping on the sofa and touches his shoulder.

He opens his eyes and looks at her.

She looks at him evenly; one last glance between two

people from two completely different worlds.

She leaves.

INT. RUN DOWN PALAZZO, HALL - DAY

She has started down the stairs when Frank appears on the

landing. He leans over the balustrade.

She has stopped mid-flight.

She is quite straightforward in her response.

She shakes her head.

Just as she raises her voice a door opens below them in

the hall, and an old man comes out. He looks up at Cara.

This is exactly what she did not want. But she controls

her annoyance, nods in greeting and continues towards the

front door.

The Old Neighbor nods as Cara walks out the door.

He admires Cara's shapely form as she crosses the

cobblestone streets and disappears into the alley.

He glances back up at Frank and whistles appreciatively.

Frank turns and goes back inside.

INT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - DAY

Ackerman sits in an office chair, gently revolving.

Jones, Goyal and Jean Luc are there as well.

Jones is the only woman nearby...

Jean Luc can't tell if she's serious.

Ackerman sips from his ten thousandth cup of espresso.

He looks around to see if the others like this theory.

There is a bitterness in Ackerman's tone that reveals he

is personally hurt by this.

Goyal's Blackberry makes a beep.

Ackerman pushes himself wearily to his feet.

INT. KITCHEN, "SAFE HOUSE" - DAY

Paging through the cookbook, Frank locates the page. He

smiles in recognition at the familiar CODE pattern of red

dots. He pulls out a PEN...

INT. BATHROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - DAY

Frank examines a sleek, tiny electric razor that

resembles a lollipop. Turning it on, he applies it.

Pleased, he keeps shaving.

Getting out of the shower, Frank enjoys the soft Frette

towels.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM, "SAFE HOUSE" - DAY

In the closets are dozens of flawless, custom-tailored

suits.

Flipping through the rack like a discerning shopper,

Frank arrives at a suit that catches his fancy. Elegant

and simple.

IN THE MIRROR

Frank struggles to close Alexander Pearce's pants around

his lightly padded mid-section... a little too tight.

Frank is irritated to discover he's not quite as trim as

Pearce.

ON THE BEDROOM FLOOR

Frank engages himself in a spontaneous program of

CALISTHENICS. He struggles through a batch of push-ups,

then sit ups.

IN THE MIRROR

Frank flosses his teeth. Then he backs up, taking in his

outfit. The lines of the suit highlight his frame.

He likes what he sees.

INT. DEMIDOV'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Demidov is getting dressed. It's an elaborate ritual:

carefully pressed pants, ironed shirt, starched collar,

etc.

His two BODYGUARDS stand nervously at attention, watching

him.

He pats talcum powder on himself.    The men remain stone-

faced.

He points at his platinum cufflinks on a bedside table

and snaps his fingers. Scarface hands them to him.

He carefully knots his tie in the mirror.

He turns and smiles at his THICK-NECKED bodyguard.    He

gestures toward the man's holstered pistol --

He holds out his hand; THICK NECK hands him the pistol.

Suddenly Demidov pistol whips the man across the face!

Blood explodes from THICK NECK's nose.     He falls down to

one knee, clutching his face in pain.

Scarface looks on in fear. Demidov calms himself almost

as quickly as he lost his temper. He drops the gun on

the carpet and steps back in disgust.

He turns and walks into the bathroom to wash his hands.

EXT. CIPRIANI HOTEL - DAY

Heels clicking on the cobblestones, Cara strides quickly

along the Palazzo Vendramin en route to the Cipriani.

She checks her watch. Then walks faster.

She passes a smallish transporto via cargo (supply boat)

floating in the lagoon beside the Palazzo.

Cara approaches the poolside hotel restaurant.

INT. CIPRIANI HOTEL - DAY

From a second story SUITE of rooms, The ENGLISHMAN peers

through the curtains. He sees Cara seat herself at a

TABLE between the pool and the lagoon.

His eyes settle on the transporto. Workers step on and

off, carrying fresh linens into the hotel.

He leaves the window.

INT. TRANSPORTO - DAY

There is a small cabin on the deck.

Inside the cabin, Ackerman, Goyal, a videographer, a

signals surveillance officer and a coordinating tactics

officer huddle.

Ackerman stares out the tinted window.

ACKERMAN'S POV - he can just see Cara sitting at the

table.

EXT. CIPRIANI HOTEL, POOLSIDE RESTAURANT - DAY

Fanning herself with a newspaper, Cara discreetly

evaluates the men in her sight lines. Venetian civic

leaders chatting by the bar, tourists reading maps...

Over her sunglasses she catches sight of a pair of YOUNG

LOVERS drunk in each other's grasp in the pool.

She turns away.

INT. TRANSPORTO - DAY

Squinting, Ackerman evaluates his placements.

- A WAITER, idling at his bussing station, his eyes

roaming the palazzo.

- A VAPORETTO CAPTAIN, who quietly turns away requests

for a ride into St. Marks Square, his finger to his ear.

- An OLDER COUPLE sitting a few seats away from Cara.

And an AGENTE DI POLIZIA (police patrolman) loud and

jovial, joking with passersby, while quietly checking his

earpiece.

He speaks into the air.

EXT. CIPRIANI HOTEL, POOLSIDE RESTAURANT - DAY

The VIDEO CAMERA swivels to follow a MAN, elegantly

dressed, with trim hair who swiftly approaches Cara's

table...

IN THE TRANSPORTO

Standing up, Ackerman holds his hand up.

AT THE RESTAURANT

Cara glances up from her menu as she senses the elegant

man approaching.

The WAITER walks quickly toward Cara's table...

The elegant man is FRANK.

IN THE TRANSPORTO

Ackerman stares at the monitor with Frank's face on it.

He's quietly furious.

AT THE RESTAURANT

Cara stares slack-jawed at Frank.

He has given himself a complete make-over.    New haircut.

Pearce's suit fits him well.

He looks terrific. Cara notices before quickly recovering

her composure.

Frank sits at the table with Cara and eats a CASHEW.

IN THE TRANSPORTO

Ackerman barks whispered orders into the speaker:

The UNDERCOVER WAITER quickly moves away from Cara's

table.

Ackerman stares at the monitor which captures Cara's

angry expression.

AT THE POOLSIDE RESTAURANT

Defiantly, Frank pulls his chair in closer to Cara.    He

signals to a different THIN WAITER.

Frank turns back to Cara, who calls out--

She stares at him.

Frank pulls out a Gitane cigarette.   He lights it,

smoking while he talks.

Frank frowns at the cigarette.

INT. TRANSPORTO - DAY

Goyal is seated at the communication station.

ON THE MONITOR - Frank is settled in opposite Cara.

Ackerman peers directly out the window, as if he's going

to see something different.

EXT. CIPRIANI HOTEL, POOLSIDE RESTAURANT - DAY

Cara looks all around.   No sign of any suitor

approaching.

CLOSE ON: the hands of the THIN WAITER, who sprinkles

pepper carefully, presumably onto a dish. He then

platters the dish and lifts it over his shoulder.

Frank works himself up, drawing courage from his anger.

Frank leans in.

She tosses some Euros on the table.

The THIN WAITER arrives with a PLATTER.   He sets it down

in front of Cara.

The UNDERCOVER WAITER now moves toward the table with a

grim expression...

The THIN WAITER removes the platter.   Cara looks down.

Spelled out in SALT and PEPPER on the plate is the

following:

"MY VILLA.    TONIGHT. 8PM."

Cara no sooner reads it than the Thin Waiter, who we now

see is THE ENGLISHMAN...

...BLOWS on the platter, scattering the salt and pepper

granules to the wind.

As Frank looks up.

The Englishman has already turned away, but the

Undercover Waiter is moving quickly toward Cara's table.

The Undercover Waiter picks up speed, changing course

slightly. WE SEE he's after The Englishman who is about

to enter the restaurant kitchen...

Then FRANK steps in front of The Undercover Waiter,

mistaking him for Pearce.

INT. TRANSPORTO - DAY

Ackerman slaps the cabin table.

THE POOLSIDE RESTAURANT

The Undercover Waiter tries to move past Frank.

Frank SHOVES him back.

Frank grabs the Undercover Waiter's collar with

unaccustomed strength.

Cara quietly picks up her bag and leaves the restaurant.

She walks as fast as she can without being noticed toward

the Palazzo Vendramin.

In the midst of his scuffle, Frank looks around and

realizes she's gone.

The Undercover Waiter's earpiece falls out in the melee...

Frank sees it and hesitates. Maybe this guy isn't

Pearce.

INT. TRANSPORTO - DAY

Getting up from his seat in the cabin, Ackerman gestures

for the captain of the transporto to leave the dock.

ON THE MONITOR: Frank looks around and sees Cara:     fifty

feet away. Walking with purpose.

Ackerman rubs his face and squats down, frustrated beyond

measure.

EXT. PALAZZO VENDRAMIN - DAY

Frank brushes past tables, hits the street and RUNS down

the Palazzo, toward Cara.

Cara says nothing. She just shoots Frank an angry glance

and climbs onto A VAPORETTO (water taxi).

Frank runs to the edge of the water as it motors away.

Suddenly he feels the presence of somebody behind him.

TWO of ACKERMAN'S MEN are right there.

They pin his arms forcefully.

Frank looks at the two big men on either side of him.

Then at Cara disappearing over the water. The fight

drains out of him and he doesn't resist.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Frank sits alone in the sparsely furnished, windowless

room. A table, two chairs. A large mirror on the wall.

Frank straightens his slightly disheveled suit, as if

he's been dumped here without ceremony.

He glances in the mirror periodically, suspicious.

The door opens and Ackerman enters. He pulls up one of

the chairs and gestures for Frank to do the same.

He looks Frank up and down.

Ackerman reaches into his breast pocket and takes out his

INTERPOL credentials. Tosses them on the table for Frank

to see.

Ackerman smiles. Frank remains defiant.      He jerks his

head toward the mirror confidently.

Ackerman looks over at the mirror, taken off guard by the

question. He stands and goes to the mirror -- lifts it

off its hooks and sets it on the floor.

Nothing but plain wall underneath. Ackerman sits back

down. Frank is a little bit chastened.

Ackerman smiles.

Frank looks up.

Frank stares at him blankly...

INT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - DAY

Ackerman leads Frank through the maze of desks and

police. Various members of the task force follow their

progress... Jean Luc, Jones, etc.

They arrive at a central INTEL area where Goyal sits in

front of several computer monitors.

He looks up as Ackerman and Frank arrive.

Goyal raises an eyebrow, but does as he's told. A few

moments later a photo of POLICE RECRUITS in uniform comes

up on screen.

Frank peers at the screen. He spots the instructor--

Ackerman seven years younger.

INSERT CLOSE UP on the screen.

Frank examines the second row. One of the young women

is... CARA MASON. Her hair is pulled back. She looks more

the determined police cadet than the sexy siren...  but

it's definitely her.

He is dumbfounded.

Frank grows angry.

Jones clears her throat from a chair across the room.

Frank is incredulous.

Frank falls silent. Ackerman puts an arm around his

shoulder and leads him away from the others.

EXT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - DAY

Frank stands on a balcony overlooking a waterway.

Ackerman emerges with two cups of espresso. Hands one to

Frank.

INT. DOGE'S PALACE - DAY [FLASHBACK]

Cara (younger) poses as an art student, sketching a

SCULPTURE in the Anticollegio.

She turns her face and smiles at an UNSEEN MAN.

EXT. YACHT - DAY [FLASHBACK]

The wind blows in Cara's hair. She sits on the top deck.

A MAN'S HAND passes her a drink as he walks by. She

smiles at him (again we do not see his face).

EXT. BALCONY - RESUME SCENE

Ackerman turns to Frank.

Ackerman finishes his espresso.

Beat.

Goyal walks up behind Ackerman waiting patiently for a

moment to interrupt him.

Frank looks back at him evenly.

Ackerman acknowledges the point with the barest of nods.

Goyal signals that Ackerman has a phone call.

EXT. GRAND SALONE, VENICE - DAY

The principal apartment of a Venetian palazzo, looking

out over the Grand Canal.

Cara holds her cell phone to her ear as she walks.

INTERCUT WITH

ACKERMAN on the phone at his office.

Ackerman glances out the window at Frank.

Cara is relieved.

Ackerman smiles bitterly.

Cara doesn't answer. Ackerman regrets the jibe.   He

steps into a HALLWAY where it's quiet.

ON HER FACE as she listens to him.

Ackerman's face lights up...

INT. INTERPOL FIELD HQ, VENICE - DAY

Ackerman strides into the room, calling for attention.

Jones, Quinn, Jean Luc and the rest of the team assemble.

Goyal has Frank with him, dragging him around like a lost

puppy dog...

He picks up his coat.

Frank speaks up unexpectedly.

A dozen heads turn to look at him.

Frank shrinks down in his chair.

A beat.   Ackerman turns back to the rest of the room.

The meeting breaks up.   Everybody jumps into action.

ON QUINN as he slips out a side door.

INT. CIPRIANI HOTEL - DAY

A standard hotel room-- no lavish suite this time.

Cara stands in front of the mirror. Her shirt is

unbuttoned as she works to attach a TINY MICROPHONE to

her bra.

The tape gets stuck to itself and she has to start over...

A KNOCK on her hotel room door.

Frank enters the room.    Sees her half-dressed--

In an echo of their first meeting on the train (but

without the false flirtation) she turns to him and hands

him a piece of tape.

Their eyes meet.   A flicker of a smile passes between

them.

Frank's fingers are perfectly steady this time as he

helps her secure the microphone and do up her shirt.

She takes a deep breath.

He steps back from her.    She smooths her blouse.   Turns

to him.

The complete honesty and directness of his compliment

takes her by surprise. She's strangely moved by it.

She brushes her hand affectionately over his cheek.

Something occurs to Frank.

He nods.   A little pleased at her concern.

She takes a beat, then puts her game face on.

EXT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA - NIGHT

A light mist. The sound of water lapping against the

shore. The scene is familiar... almost identical to the

night of the raid just over a year ago.

Then a wind picks up and blows the mist clear.

REVEAL an undercover POLICEMAN with an earpiece walking a

dog a block away...

ON A ROOFTOP three blocks away -   A SNIPER with a scope.

INSIDE AN APARTMENT - a FEMALE AGENT with binoculars

scans the empty street below.

ON THE CORNER - two blocks down is a village CHURCH.

INT. CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Ackerman and his team have set up a make-shift

surveillance outpost here. The high-tech equipment looks

incongruous with the thousand year-old stone walls and

worn oak pews.

A bank of monitors reveals various views of the inside

and outside of Alexander's villa.

Frank hovers in the background behind Ackerman. He

notices Ackerman has a copy of the International Herald

Tribune.

Frank nods. Ackerman sits down next to Frank as if he

were an old pal instead of a quasi-captive.

EXT. WATERWAY - NIGHT

A PATROL BOAT circles in the canal behind the villa.   One

of Ackerman's ITALIAN AGENTS is at the wheel.

He sees a flat-bottomed black BOAT motoring toward him.

A light from the boat shines in his eyes.

FWWWAP! A silenced bullet strikes him in the forehead.

The agent topples into the water with a gentle splash.

The black boat steers around the rudderless patrol boat

and heads toward the villa...

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA - NIGHT

BINOCULAR POV - a lone female figure walks down the

cobblestone streets toward the villa.

CARA.

EXT. BACK OF THE VILLA - NIGHT

The black boat slips underneath some moorings.

A gloved hand tosses a grappling hook up to a beam ten

feet overhead. It catches. The boat is tied off.

Silently, a masked figure begins to climb from the boat

up into the bottom floor of the villa in the semi-

darkness.

INT. SURVEILLANCE OUTPOST IN CHURCH

ON THE MONITOR WE SEE

PEARCE'S ENTRY HALL. Cara unlocks the front door with a

key and walks inside.

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA/VIDEO MONITORS - CONTINUOUS

TRACK from screen to screen as WE FOLLOW Cara moving

through the deserted rooms.

Everything is cold and lifeless.   Like a palace that has

been turned into a museum.

INT. CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

While everyone is focused on the monitors showing Cara's

progress, Frank notices some movement in a monitor far

off to one side...

It shows the lower floor of the house.

They all turn to look. A male figure, his face masked,

approaches the lens of the surveillance camera...

BLINK!   The FEED shuts off.

Ackerman barks at a technician.

The surveillance techs begin madly punching buttons, etc.

BLINK!   Another monitor goes dark.   Then another.

Frank looks anxiously at Cara on the monitor climbing the

stairs...

Blink! She disappears from view as well.      Everybody

starts talking.

They quiet down.   Ackerman turns to the tech.

The tech nods.

Everybody in the Church stands stock still.    Staring at

the dark monitors. Listening.

Cara's footsteps click up the stairs and then slow...

They move tentatively across the floor.

WE HEAR A THUMP.   A door or a heavy footstep?

Cara's breathing gets louder.    There's somebody else in

the building.

No response.   Click, clack, click... She takes a few steps.

ON FRANK -- concerned.

ON ACKERMAN -- calm.

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA, PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Cara stands in the center of the large room. She catches

sight of her reflection in the large floor-to-ceiling

window. There's a movement in the doorway behind her...

She spins around to face...

DEMIDOV.   He and his two men have removed their masks.

He steps toward her.

Cara pales.

INT. CHURCH - NIGHT

Everybody strains to hear what is happening.

Jones looks at him.

INTERCUT WITH THE VILLA

Cara takes a step back toward the window.   Demidov

follows.

Cara doesn't reply.

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

SNIPER'S POV - CARA has maneuvered close enough to the

window that she is visible. As they approach, Demidov

and his two men come into range as well.

INT. CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Everybody is listening.

ON FRANK'S FACE - he looks around at the cops desperately

hoping somebody will do something. They all look to

Ackerman.

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA, PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Demidov circles Cara dangerously close.

INSIDE THE CHURCH

A long silence.    The tension grows.   Then we hear...

A LOUD SLAP.

Everyone in the room flinches.

ANOTHER SLAP - MORE VICIOUS THAN THE FIRST.      This time

Cara cries out in pain.

Goyal turns to Ackerman.

Another SLAP.    Another scream.

Jean Luc looks to his colleagues-- Jones, Quinn... then

turns to Ackerman. Every one of them is about to burst.

A muffled THUD. Cara groans and WE HEAR her body hit the

floor. That wasn't a slap.

Every cop in the room is clenching his weapon. Desperate

for the order to move. To jump in and stop this.

They are all looking to Ackerman to give the order.

As the silence wears on, even Jones starts to waver. She

speaks quietly to Ackerman.

Ackerman doesn't respond.

The lack of sound in the church is even more disturbing

than before.

Suddenly Goyal notices...

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Frank runs for all he's worth.    Panting for breath.

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA - NIGHT

Frank bursts through the front door.      Races to the steps

without hesitating...

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA, PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Cara lies on her side at Demidov's feet.     Blood trickles

from the side of her mouth.

Her eyes are clouded with fear and pain as she views the

room half-askew. Then they suddenly come into focus as

she sees...

A figure walks into the room.    FRANK.

He stand motionless in the doorway, surprisingly calm.

Demidov turns.

Demidov's men take Frank by either arm and roughly drag

him forward.

Cara lifts her head with an effort.

Demidov ignores her and walks up to Frank.

He holds out his hand and one of his THUGS gives him a

PISTOL and a SILENCER.

Demidov begins screwing the silencer onto the barrel.

The thugs push Frank to his knees.

But he's barely paying attention to them.    His eyes are

locked on Cara.

She meets his gaze. For a moment, it's as if nothing

else in the world exists but the two of them.

He may only be a hapless tourist, but he loves her.

He's the one here, willing to give up his life to save

hers.

Demidov finishes attaching the silencer.    He points the

gun at the back of Frank's head.

At this moment, Cara fills her lungs and screams:

She bends her head toward her cleavage, yelling into the

tiny microphone.

Demidov is taken off guard.

INT. CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

Her scream echoes through the arched church.

Ackerman gives the order.

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

SNIPER'S POV - Demidov and his gun-wielding henchmen

standing over Frank and Cara.

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA, PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The huge, plate glass window shatters as the high powered

bullet slams through it!

Everything explodes in a mass of blood and glass.

SCARFACE is blown off his feet. His body hits the ground

next to Frank... his gun skitters across the floor.

Demidov looks from the window to Cara with cold fury in

his eyes-- she's the one who has called in the artillery.

He raises his pistol toward her, point blank.

BANG!    The gunshot takes him by surprise.   He turns to

see...

FRANK holds Scarface's smoking pistol in his hand.

Demidov just has time to process the fact that Frank is

the one who shot him before the life drains from his eyes

and he topples...

Demidov's other bodyguard fires out the windows wildly

and makes a run for it. Glass flies everywhere.

Frank throws his body over Cara to protect her.

A short and furious exchange of gunfire as the other

plate glass windows explode. Wood splinters fill the air

as furniture is torn apart. Finally...

One of the sniper's bullets finds its target and the

BODYGUARD goes down.

Frank remains on top of Cara, shielding her until long

after everything has fallen silent.

EXT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA - NIGHT

Ackerman and his team approach, guns drawn.

Undercover agents converge as well, closing the

perimeter.

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA, PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Frank and Cara sit in the middle of the room amongst a

sea of broken glass. Just getting over the shock of

being alive.

Cara nods. She looks at him for a long moment, then

breaks out into a smile.

Frank's turn to smile.   He looks around the room at the

carnage.

Frank slides closer to her. Gently, carefully, he slips

his hands into Cara's cleavage.

Surprised, Cara starts to pull back-- but he puts a

finger to her lips.

She hesitates... looks at him questioningly. But she

doesn't protest as his fingers move toward her bra...

...and grasp the tiny MICROPHONE. With a sharp tug, he

rips it free. He tosses it across the room.

Then he leans a little closer and whispers in her ear:

She straightens up.   Her heart skips a beat.

She covers her mouth.   Her eyes mist over with tears.

She runs her fingers over his face with loving amazement.

Like a blind person trying to recognize a familiar face.

Her mind reels...

Then their lips meet. They kiss. And kiss.      Like

drinking from a fresh spring in the desert.

Finally she pulls away and looks at him.

She stares into his eyes for a beat. Finally looking at

her without a trace of deception. She believes.

They hear voices on the stairs below.

Frank holds up a finger to her-- wait.

Frank crawls across the room and presses a hidden latch

on a built-in bookshelf. It swings out of the way to

reveal a hidden safe built into the floor.

Frank removes the fitted floor boards. There is a

sophisticated BIO-METRIC LOCK -- just like the one at the

gate in the beginning of the movie.

Frank places his finger on the spot and the lock clicks

open.

INT. ALEXANDER'S VILLA - NIGHT

TRACK WITH ACKERMAN up the stairs.

He leads the team into the PENTHOUSE.

He looks around at the mess as the agents fan out.

Cara leans on Frank's arm as she heads for the exit.

She blows right past him.     Ackerman calls out after her.

She pauses.   Turns to face him.

Ackerman looks down for a moment, ashamed.

She walks past him.    For a moment Ackerman and Frank look

at one another.

He looks at Frank with a measure of begrudging respect.

With that, Frank steps out of the room.    Ackerman's

attention is distracted by--

Goyal has found the safe.   Ackerman comes over and looks.

INSERT CLOSE UP - the only thing in the safe is a single

FLASH DRIVE.

Goyal signals to one of the TECHS. He opens a laptop on

the desk and they plug in the FLASH DRIVE to check the

contents.

While they are doing this, Ackerman bends to inspect the

BIO-METRIC LOCK.

Jones looks on eagerly as numbers fill the screen.

Goyal scans down to a total...

She holds out her hand to the TECH who has just removed

the FLASH DRIVE.

She slips it into her pocket, then turns to Ackerman.

Ackerman has moved away. He's staring down at the ground

-- from behind he looks like a man defeated.

Ackerman's shoulders are slumped, staring at Demidov's

dead body on the ground. Jones puts a hand on his back,

consoling him.

Then Ackerman turns... a big smile on his face.

She realizes; he was after Demidov all along.

Ackerman nods to Goyal, a twinkle in his eye.

Quinn is taken completely off guard. Before he can move,

Goyal and another agent have placed him in handcuffs.

He turns to Jones with a smile.

Ackerman walks over to the window as Quinn is led away.

ACKERMAN'S POV - Cara and Frank walk toward the canal in

the street below.

A WATER TAXI approaches.

Ackerman stands at the window with his hands behind his

back. For the briefest of moments, Frank looks back up

at him and their eyes connect.

Frank gives him a little smile.   Cara takes his arm to

climb onto the boat.

CLOSE ON ACKERMAN:   his eyes narrow.   He knows.

For a moment he doesn't move. Then, in spite of himself,

a small smile creeps over his face too.

EXT. WATER TAXI - NIGHT

Cara and Frank step on board.

The DRIVER starts the engine.

He turns to REVEAL... that he is the "ENGLISHMAN" we've

seen throughout the movie. He and Frank look at one

another for a moment.

They embrace warmly. Cara is in disbelief, realizing

just how completely Frank/Alexander has planned things

out.

She casts one last glance backwards.

The Englishman opens the door to the cabin for them.

A bottle of Crystal Champagne and two glasses are set out

for them. Frank leads Cara in and offers her a glass.

Instead, she slips into his arms and presses against him.

They begin to kiss...

CAMERA STAYS discreetly behind as they pull away from us,

the water taxi swinging out into the Grand Canal.

As it recedes from view, the vaporetto's tail lamps

shimmer and blend into the beautiful lights of Venice...   a

city for lovers.

