INT. MUSEUM - DAY

A perfect rainbow is trapped inside two flawless DIAMONDS,

glinting in the morning sun.

Tounted on crushed velvet, the identical diamonds are on a glass

covered pedal stool in the middle of a vast, marble MUSEUM HALL.

The stunning beauty of the stones is matched only by the

breathtaking beauty of the young woman who's admiring them. MARIE

CLIFFORD's creamy seventeen year old skin is dappled in the

cornucopia of colors emanating from the diamonds...

She reaches out tentatively towards the glass case. Not to touch

the diamonds, but to run her fingers over a picture that's mounted

in the case below the priceless jewels. It's of a MOTHER cradling

her BABY DAUGHTER...

Marie spins round, sees the bespectacled CURATOR, 60's, standing

behind her.

Marie carefully adjusts the sign atop the glass case...

'THE MOTHER DAUGHTER DIAMONDS...'

EXT. MUSEUM - DAY

Marie fires up her powerful BMW, parked right outside the austere

Museum building. The powerful stereo blasts, sending the birds

fluttering skywards...

CREDITS appear over...

ARIEL FOOTAGE of a narrow highway, Marie's BMW streaking through

the endless tract of Florida wetlands. In the water, GATORS, warm

themselves in the early morning sun...

stretch their majestic wings, locals speed across the stagnant

waters in their deafening AIRBOATS...

and into the town of Blue Bay, where the nip/tucked denizens sip

three martini lunches and tee off at the local country club.

Marie steers her BMW into the showroom-like parking lot of Blue

Bay High School.

INT. MARIE'S BMW - MORNING

Marie guides her powerful car towards her parking spot, when...

SCCCREEEECCCHHHH!

She SLAMS on the brakes as a figure darts in front of her car.

Almost gives her a heart attack, throwing her forward, flailing

arms crashing into the stereo, then snapped back by her seatbelt.

She sits stock still for a second, then looks up, out of her

windshield at the young woman scouring at her, only inches from

the front bumper of the BMW.

The sudden jolt has changed the radio station. A newscaster

rambles on...

ELENA SANDOVAL, 17, stands defiantly in front of the BMW, her

don't-fuck-with-me stare in direct contrast with her come-fuck-me

clothes.

Marie reaches out with a trembling hand, turns off the stereo,

then leans out of the car window.

Elena smiles wryly.

And she means it...

INT. BLUE BAY HIGH AUDITORIUM - MORNING

The auditorium is packed with the Blue Bay High student body. The

natural order is clear, the pastel flock at the front, the meat

headed jocks in the center, and the rejects at the back.

Marie is amongst her sweater monkey friends, but she's still

shocked by what happened out in the parking lot...

Marie tentatively opens the gift, sees a pair of OPAL EARRINGS.

Marie looks back, to the far reaches of the auditorium where the

freaks and geeks crowd round Elena, worshipping her like the

Goddess she is...

Marie and Elena make brief, electric eye contact, across the sea

of hormonally challenged students as Principal LIONEL MOSSTER, his

ill-fitting sports jacket coffee-stained, steps onstage.

He pauses, waits for the student body to quiet down...

The students all cheer, naturally.

He motions behind him to KRISTEN RICHARDS, early 30's, a natural

beauty who's doing her best to hide behind a bland gray suit and

glasses, and CHAD BORMAN, late 20s, devilishly handsome...

Kristen steps up to the lectern.

Quick glance at Elena who rolls her eyes...

The students roar their approval.

Elena covers her mouth, as if to cough...

Kristen ignores the slur.

This quiets the auditorium.

Chad steps to the podium.

While Chad drones on, MUDDY, a Gremlin-eyed drooler, sitting in

front of Elena, looks back at her shapely legs as she puts them up

on the back of the chair. He spots the ugly plastic bracelet

locked around one of her ankles.

The words catch in his throat.

Elena taps the flashing red light on the plastic bracelet.

Back at the podium, Chad leans forward, making sure his words

resonate with the student body.

He pauses to let the impact of this wash over the students.

Kristen is taken aback by Elena's insensitivity, stumbles over her

words, finally spitting out the sad, sorry truth...

Elena cracks a sideways grin...

Kristen has no answer to that. Principal Mosster does his best to

control the situation...

Like Elena cares.   She leans back, nods. Job done.

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH DIVING POOL - DAY

The bright Florida sunshine washes down on packed bleachers by the

side of the massive diving pool, where a diving meet is in full

swing...

Breathtaking beauties from teams all over the region, in their

school colored bikinis, are scattered around the pool area.

But all eyes are on the home team. Masturbatory fantasies abound

as the Blue Bay Girls' Diving Team runs through stretches...

And as exquisite as these girls are, they pale in comparison to

absolutely sweet Marie, stunning in her nearly see-through white

bathing suit.

The crowd cheers, watching Marie edge out to the diving platform

twenty feet above. Jenny right behind, waits on the ladder...

JAY CLIFFORD, Marie's chisel-jawed stepfather in his late

thirties, focuses a DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA on Marie from the front

row of the bleachers...

Marie just rolls her eyes.

Marie looks at her stepfather, nods tentatively, but then notices

the incongruous figure of Elena, sidling up to him...

Jay looks round, lowers the camera when he comes face to face with

the world's hottest towel girl...

Whoa. Jay's lost for words as he diverts his attention to the

platform where Marie stands perfectly still before stepping into

the air.

It's a spectacular sight as the beautiful Marie completes a double

back flip, entering the water with near-perfect form. She quickly

resurfaces, climbs out of the pool and exchanges high fives with

her teammates before crossing to Jay.

Jay shakes a finger at her, silences her immediately.

Marie takes a deep breath, approaches the ladder once more. As

she's about to start the arduous climb, Elena hands her a towel...

Stops Marie in her tracks.

Marie just starts to climb the ladder to the high dive platform.

Marie stops, looks down on Elena from the fifth rung of the

ladder, shakes her head...

Elena thinks for a second, glances back at Jay with a big smile.

Marie just stands there incredulous for a moment.

She ascends the ladder, leaving Elena behind...

Marie clambers up onto the high dive platform, tries to focus on

the task at hand. But can't help but notice her nemesis below,

walking slowly, seductively, up to Jay, intoxicating him...

Marie blocks out the distraction, concentrates at the task at

hand, stepping to the edge of the platform and the 20 foot drop

looming beyond...

She slides a ring off her finger, kisses it for luck. It's an odd

design. Four curved gold ridges, just ready to hold a Diamond...

She throws the ring into the pool ahead of her, the gold glinting

in the afternoon sunlight as it drops into the water, and a split

second before it breaks the surface, Marie is airborne...

She twists magnificently through the air, a sight of breathtaking

beauty. Thank God this is in slow motion.

And as she gets ever closer to the water's surface, she tucks,

does one last back flip, straightening out at the last possible

instant, slicing through the water with nary a splash.

Marie surfaces to roaring APPLAUSE. Treading water, she can't help

but watch her Jay's smiling face in the bleachers...

EXT. CLIFFORD MANSION - AFTERNOON

Sickeningly expensive POWERBOATS and de-rigged SCHOONERS line the

inlet leading to the verdant lawns of the Clifford Mansion...

Banners and streamers wishing Marie a happy birthday decorate the

grounds. Partygoers soak in the blazing Florida sun, sip at non-

alcoholic punch, and stare out gratefully across the thin stretch

of water that separates them from the riff-raff on the mainland...

Marie sits away from it all, lost in thought, as Jenny, in cutoffs

and a bikini top, sidles up beside her.

Marie forces a smile.

Marie looks round to her stepfather, shakes her head, bringing a

bemused look to Jay's face.

He shrugs, picks up a crystal glass, hits a fork sharply against

it, drawing the attention of the assembled partygoers...

Everyone raises their fine crystal.

H

Tears well in Marie's eyes...

He notices, out of the corner of his eyes, two well-dressed MEN

standing at the entrance to his house. Whoever they are, Jay's

instantly unnerved. He stumbles over his words...

... and hurries after them.   Marie is left dumbfounded. So close,

but so far...

She chases after him...

INT. CLIFFORD MANSION HALLWAY - DAY

Marie makes her way down the sleek white corridors inside the

opulent Clifford Mansion, past framed family photos, of Jay, Marie

and the late Julie...

H

the kitchen. She angrily selects a bottle of Champagne, pops the

cork. Before she can swig any alcohol she hears raised voices.

Marie tentatively edges out of the kitchen, back into the hallway,

and down towards Jay's study...

Marie sidles up to the door jam, peaks through the crack. What she

sees makes the blood run cold in her veins...

An imposing Cuban businessman, MR. BARAJAS, stands threateningly

over a visibly frightened Jay. Another man, CICATRIZ, dressed in

designer silks, stands menacingly in the corner, clearly the brawn

of this little operation.

Barajas nods to Cicatriz, who moves in on Jay with lightning

quickness, holds a Razor sharp KNIFE against his thumb.

Cicatriz runs the steel blade across Jay's thumb. Marie has to

cover her mouth from screaming as she sees a trickle of blood

stain the spotless white carpet.

A sinister grin stretches across Cicatriz's lips.

And with that the Cuban men head to the door. Marie scrambles

away, her heart pounding...

She's halfway down the hallway when Mr. Barajas and Cicatriz exit

Jay's study. She turns, tries to look innocent as the Cuban

'businessmen' stare her down.

J

A

Cicatriz takes a step towards her.

Marie backs away, never taking her eyes off the intimidating Cuban

men...

EXT. CLIFFORD MANSION - AFTERNOON

Marie stumbles down the lawns, past the semi-clad partygoers, in a

daze, as she takes hits from the bottle of champagne.

Jenny and the dive team wait by the dock, and welcome their lost

sheep with open arms.

Marie's thoughts are drowned out by the ROAR of a powerful engine.

All attention turns to a rusted MOTORCYCLE as it streaks across

the verdant lawns, leaving a spray of MUD in its wake.

Marie's slightly drunken eyes narrow. Elena brings the bike to a

screeching halt inches from the surprised guests. The ultimate

partycrasher...

She's striding towards the Mansion, towards Jay who's standing at

the patio doors, an exquisitely wrapped present in his hands.

Marie stumbles after Elena, grabbing her from behind, holding her

back. There's a tense moment before...

And that's it. Marie lashes out with a haymaker punch. Connects on

Elena's jaw and she goes reeling back. But it's ignited the street

fighter in her, and she comes roaring back into the fray, ramming

into Marie and together they tumble to the ground...

T

and aroused. It's a hair pulling, teeth gnashing, make up smearing

wrestling match, no holds barred. The drunken Marie has the upper

hand, the alcohol fueling her rage.

And that stops the fight right there and then. Marie looks up to

see a red faced Jay standing over her.

Elena gets to her feet, licks the blood from her split lip.

He hauls Marie to her feet, thrusts her towards the mansion.

Groans from the crowd, but Jay's mind is made up.

Jay's already walking away.

Elena watches Jay stride away, like a lioness stalking her prey...

EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING SITE - NIGHT

Work lights illuminate the half finished condo building site, on

prime beachfront real estate. These places would sell for

millions, if they were ever finished...

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING OFFICE - NIGHT

In a concrete makeshift office, on the top floor of the condo

building, Jay clicks open the lock on his large metal safe and the

steel door swings open.

Inside are stacks of CASH, piled high, along with a shiny new

HANDGUN. Jay flicks through the money, shaking his head...

A clanking noise from outside has him quickly snatching the gun

from the safe, before closing it once more, spinning the lock...

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Jay walks out of his office, into the half-finished top floor of

the condos. Exposed beams and drying cement reveal how far behind

schedule Jay really is...

He swings the gun round impotently, seeing nothing in the

flickering florescent light...

Finally Jay lowers the weapon. It looks like he might collapse,

until he catches himself, palms flat against the wall, head down.

He reels around, sees Elena moving toward him, brushing aside the

thick plastic sheeting. She has a bottle of beer in one hand, a

video camera in the other. Jay's video camera to be precise...

Elena focuses the video camera on Jay's crotch. Makes him

incredibly uncomfortable, obviously.

Elena thrusts the bottle of beer at Jay.

Jay takes the bottle from her, sets it down on the concrete floor.

This brings a teasing pout to Elena's lips.

Jay's taken aback.

Jay's taken aback once more. How much more aback can he be taken?

He reaches out and blocks the video camera lens.

Elena saunters slowly past, brushing up against him. Keeps the

camera trained on his worried face...

Jay's reaching his elastic limit. He reaches for the camera, but

Elena won't let go. They wrestle for control of the video camera.

And finally the camera slips from both their grasps, flies across

the room and SHATTERS on the concrete floor...

Elena runs her finger under Jay's chin, then turns and walks away,

leaving Jay standing there, all taken aback.

EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING    - NIGHT

A drunken Marie brings her BMW to a swerving halt outside the

construction site. She takes a swig from the Champagne bottle on

the passenger seat for dutch courage...

She reaches for the car door handle, but comes up short. When she

looks back up she's in for some taking aback of her own...

Elena comes walking out of the building site, and the two girls

lock eyes. There's an uncomfortable moment before Elena flashes a

satisfied smile and walks away...

Marie's about to get out of her car when Jay comes walking out of

the site, looks around the lot, sees Marie's car.

Marie stammers to find the words...

Jay's mood lightens.

He walks away and a smile creeps across Marie's face.

INT. MUSEUM - MORNING

A perfect rainbow is trapped inside the two flawless Mother

Daughter DIAMONDS, glinting in the morning sun.

Marie can barely contain her excitement as she paces frantically

in the dark marble museum hall, reaching out a trembling hand

towards the glass case containing the priceless jewels...

Marie looks round to see Jay striding into the Museum, still in

the same clothes as yesterday...

Jay looks at her sternly.

Jay shakes his head slowly, deliberately.

Jay puts an arm around his stepdaughter, starts walking her back

towards the massive wooden doors.

She's stuck in an awkward embrace with her Step Father...

EXT. MUSEUM - MORNING

Jay leads Marie down the stone steps outside the quaint Museum

building. But as they approach his car they're hit by...BLUE and

RED FLASHING LIGHTS.

The whine of sirens has Jay spinning around in surprise, looking

over to see four Police Cruisers come to a screeching halt...

Half a dozen of Blue Bay's finest, lead by the dashing young

OFFICER ENTWISTLE, draw their badges, approach Jay.

Jay's jaw drops to the ground.

Entwistle puts a powerful hand on Jay, leads him to the first

Police cruiser.      J

Entwistle gets into the Police car's passenger seat.

INT. BLUE BAY PD INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Elena paces the sterile interview room like a caged tiger. She

stops in front of the two way mirror, examines her reflection...

Tentatively she reaches out a trembling finger touching the scab

on her lip, covering the wound Marie inflicted at the party. And

slowly Elena starts to press on the cut, until the blood starts to

flow once more...

There's a quiet knock on the door and Elena quickly lowers her

hand, looks round...

Kristen Richards, the young Parole Officer who so heart

wrenchingly told her story at Blue Bay High earlier, comes quietly

into the gray room.

Elena just looks up at her pitifully.

Through stifled sobs, Elena states...

The interview room door swings open and DETECTIVE MICHAEL

MORRISON, 30's, enters. He's the personification of the term

"overworked, underpaid."

Elena nods weakly.

Crocodile tears roll down Elena's cheeks.

Kristen interjects...

Kristen turns to her young ward...

Elena withers under his glare...

INT. BLUE BAY PD INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Jay huddles in the small interview room along with Marie and THEO

BLOOM, his sharp suited attorney.

Marie takes his hand, squeezes it.

Jay forces a tired smile...

The door swings open and Morrison enters...

Jay stands, shakes Morrison's hand.

Marie looks to Jay, doesn't want to leave.

Reluctantly she leaves, letting the door swing closed after her.

Jay sits back down. Morrison takes a chair opposite.

T

Jay nods, certain he can beat this rap...

Morrison nods.

INT. BLUE BAY PD HALLWAY - DAY

Marie waits out in the anonymous hallway, talking a mile-a-minute

on her cell phone...

When a door down the hall opens she looks up expectantly, only to

see Kristen come out, walk towards her, followed by someone.

Marie's view is blocked by Kristen until the Parole Officer passes

her and reveals...Elena.

A look somewhere between horror and shock is etched on Marie's

beautiful face. Elena just smiles, blows her a kiss.

EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - DAY

Police cars line the driveway outside the beach front building

site. Officers cordon off the road as Forensics teams photograph

every inch of the building...

Standing amidst the crowd of onlookers is an irate Mr. Barajas,

accompanied, as ever, by Cicatriz. They are both on CELLPHONES,

both talking angry, fast Spanish.

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Plastic sheeting covers the windowless top floor of the unfinished

condos. The white suited FORENSICS TEAM work meticulously, led by

the tireless Dr. Chad Borman, delicately dusting anything and

everything that might yield evidence...

Morrison stands at the edge of an area cordoned off by POLICE

TAPE. He's looking at Jay's smashed DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA, now

bagged and tagged as evidence...

Morrison spins, sees Kristen. He stumbles with his words, not used

to talking to beautiful women...

Morrison looks at the remains of the camera.

He looks up into Kristen's hypnotic eyes.

She offers her hand, and Morrison shakes it.

She hands Morrison a BUSINESS CARD, which he absently stuffs into

his pocket...

Morrison doesn't want to push her further...

All of a sudden the sunlight is blocked from the massive

unfinished floor by black sheets erected by the Forensics team,

leaving everyone in pitch darkness....

Slowly an eerie ULTRA VIOLET GLOW fills the room. The white suited

forensics technicians, glowing under the black light, wait

patiently for evidence to show itself...

Suddenly the clear IMPRINTS of hands on the wall become clear,

along with the black stains of BLOOD FLECKS...

Morrison's head is spinning...

INT. BLUE BAY FORENSICS LAB - NIGHT

Elena sits on the edge of a gurney in the high tech forensics lab,

rubbing her arm where a band-aid covers a fresh needle mark. Chad

appears at the doorway and she stares daggers at him.

Chad's surprised by her venom.

She continues to pace as Chad makes his way into the room, rounds

the desk and takes down a plastic beaker from the metal shelf.

Chad goes red. Puts the plastic cup down on the desk and Elena

grabs it.            C

The breath catches in Chad's throat as Elena takes her shirt off

without hesitation. Stands there in just her black bra.

Chad's jaw drops. Not just because Elena's in her underwear, but

because of the clear BITE MARKS on her neck and arms...

He reaches out, grabs a Polaroid Camera from the desk, starts

snapping away like an ornithologist at a bird convention. The

FLASH of the camera fills the room...

EXT. COURTHOUSE - DAY

FLASHBULBS explode as Marie accompanies her stepfather up the

steps of the austere Blue Bay courthouse, surrounded by a gaggle

of sound bite hungry pressmen...

Jay puts his hand up to block the intrusive lenses. He disappears

quickly into the shelter of the courthouse.

Marie stops in her tracks, wheels around and addresses the throng

of reporters...

Says it like she means it...

INT. COURTHOUSE - DAY

The packed courthouse is abuzz and the elderly JUDGE WILCOX is

forced to slam his gavel down...

Jay sits at the defendant's table, suit impeccable, hair

immaculate, game face on. Theo sits beside him, scribbling notes.

Marie is in the front row of the gallery, surrounded by her

coiffured peers. She tries to smile stoically at Jay...

Kristen sits beside Elena at the prosecution table.

C

Attorney, steps forward.

A slam of the gavel silences Jay.

He nods to the bailiff and a PROJECTOR whirs to life. An EVIDENCE

PHOTO that Chad took of Elena's wounds is displayed on a screen

beside him.

Chad looks confused, studies the slide, sees four equidistant dots

aligned in a small circle.

Marie can barely breathe...

Meese nods to the bailiff, who dutifully changes the slide. The

court goes dark for a second before the next slide is

displayed...It's a close up of Jay's teeth mouldings compared to

the bite marks...

That's it. The Court erupts, flashbulbs exploding. Jay slumps back

in his chair, his air of cool gone in an instant. He looks back at

Marie, utter disbelief on his face. The tears well in her eyes...

The Judge bangs his gavel in a vain attempt to regain control.

INT. BLUE BAY PD - NIGHT

TV news gleefully reports Jay's trial like a sordid soap opera...

A walking suit, AGENT MILTON DAMMERS, steps up to the podium.

Click. Morrison tosses the TV remote aside, sits down behind his

desk, piled high with files, mostly marked BLACK WIDOW, and

reaches down to pick up Jay's broken video camera, still in the

evidence bag...

Morrison looks up, smiles faintly when he sees Kristen at the

door.

Kristen smiles, enters Morrison's cluttered office.

Morrison shakes the broken camera parts in the evidence bag.

Morrison tightens his jaw, knows what he has to do.

INT. BLUE BAY PD FORENSICS LAB - NIGHT

The Forensics lab is crammed with evidence bags and files. Chad is

working diligently, painstakingly scanning a stack of $100 BILLS

one by one. He barely has time to look round when the door opens

and Detective Morrison comes in...

Chad rolls his eyes.

Chad's dumbstruck, but dutifully takes the shattered video camera.

A

camera, and a whole shit load of work ahead...

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SCHOOL SWIMMING POOL - DAY

The early morning sun casts a brilliant orange glow over the

smooth-as-glass surface of the school swimming pool.

Marie steps back up onto the high diving platform. Tries to focus.

Slides the soon-to-be-diamond ring off her finger and throws it

tentatively into the water...

She takes a breath and then dives, straight and true, into the

perfect blue water below.

EXT. UNDERWATER - CONTINUOUS

Marie's lithe, taught body comes arcing through the water, darting

down to the bottom of the pool to retrieve the ring...

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SCHOOL SWIMMING POOL - CONTINUOUS

Marie surfaces, reaches out and puts the ring on the side of the

pool, before looking up to see an old pair of sneakers, an

electronic ankle bracelet locked around one leg.

Marie's blood boils.

Elena just reaches down and picks up Marie's unfinished ring.

Marie climbs out of the pool, faces down with Elena...

Marie snatches the ring from Elena, slides it back on her finger.

Elena reaches out, tries to stroke the wet hair off Marie's face.

She recoils before she'll let Elena touch her...

J

of the locker room and see the two arch-enemies confronting each

other.

Elena won't back down.

She snaps her fingers and Marie's on the verge of tears...

Jenny and the rest of the diving team approach, stand behind

Marie, a seething mass of bikini-clad mindless hate...

As she turns and walks away...

INT. BLUE BAY COURTROOM - DAY

The usual assortment of paparazzi and spectators crowd into the

small courtroom.

Marie is on the witness stand, staring straight ahead at her

stepfather at the defendant's table. Gone is the immaculate suit,

the perfect hair, the poker face. He's looking worried now...

Theo paces in front of Marie, running her through a series of well-

rehearsed questions.

Marie takes a moment, looks to Elena at the Prosecution table.

He takes a seat next to Jay, whispers in his ear. D.A. Meese

starts his cross-examination.

Marie squirms.

Jay sinks a few inches lower in his seat. Going down...

INT. BLUE BAY FORENSICS LAB - DAY

A bleary eyed Chad sits in front of a bank of monitors, working

the image enhancement equipment, fighting to get a watchable

picture from the fuzzy static in front of him. Kristen sits behind

him, fighting to stay awake.

He clumsily reaches over the control panel, hitting almost every

button on the way. And that does the trick...

Suddenly the picture on the monitors becomes clear. Kristen's eyes

snap open.

The pixilated image of Elena smiling comes into focus on the TV...

SCENE OMITTED

INT. JUDGE'S CHAMBERS- DAY

The shaky, pixilated image of Elena smiling flickers on the TV.

Soon enough though her smile fades...

Jay's voice can be heard behind the camera...

The video shows Elena cowering...

A hand reaches out from behind the video camera and grabs Elena,

throws her violently against a concrete wall.

A flurry of movement that goes in and out of focus. When the

camera steadies again, Elena's hands are pressed against the wall

and she's sobbing... E

And then static...

Pulling back from the TV we find ourselves in the courtroom,

completely empty, save for Jay, Theo, Meese and Judge Wilcox all

staring in shock at the blank TV screen...

INT. COUNTY JAIL VISITING ROOM - DAY

In the cold stone jail visiting room, Jay sits behind the wire

mesh, an emotion Marie and Theo opposite. The PRISON GUARD waits

by the barred door, keeping his beady eyes on Jay.

Jay holds up a hand, instantly silencing his attorney.

Theo nods regretfully, reaches into a breast pocket, pulls out a

KEY.

Marie shoots an uncomfortable look to Theo, then back at Jay,

uncertain what to say.

Marie's cracking...

The tears well in her eyes.

INT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

The key slips easily into the lock below the dazzling Mother

Daughter diamonds. The alarms disabled, Marie's finally able to

reach inside the glass case and touch the priceless gems...

The Curator stands behind her in the empty Museum hall, ruefully

watching his prize exhibit being removed.

Marie, tears welling in her eyes, takes a hold of the diamonds,

carefully takes them from the case.

Marie turns to him, the emotions overwhelming her.

She scampers towards the door, past the security guards.

EXT. THE GATOR TRAILER PARK - NIGHT

Theo's SUV drives carefully down the mud path running parallel to

the swamp, past countless rusted airboats, and into the 'GATOR'

trailer park, finally coming to a halt in front of Elena's rotting

trailer. Theo gets out carefully, his $1000 shoes sinking into the

mud. Marie reluctantly steps out of the car...

A blinding PORCH LIGHT flicks on. Theo and Marie spin round,

squint through the light to see Elena standing in her trailer

doorway...           E

Theo squirms...

INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

An elderly man, UNCLE MARTY, in a sweat-stained T-shirt and ratty

underwear, snores on the tattered recliner, a half-drunk bottle of

WHISKY hanging from one limp hand...

Theo freezes when he sees him...

Uncle Marty's deafening SNORES confirm the assertion as Elena

leads them into her bedroom...

She holds the Daughter diamond in front of Elena's greedy little

eyes.

Theo nudges Marie. She sighs, holds out the Mother diamond in the

other hand. A broad grin stretches across Elena's face.

F

Marie takes a deep breath. It's the most difficult thing she's

ever had to do in her young life. Dead silence, except for Uncle

Marty's snoring from the front room.

Elena points to the ankle bracelet.

Elena smiles.

She reaches down and grabs the diamonds. Dances past Marie...

Elena winks.

Elena raises her right hand...

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

The court Bailiff nods, takes the Bible from Elena's hands. She's

dressed in the closest thing to a modest suit she has in her

wardrobe; a low cut jacket and tiny miniskirt...

The courtroom is packed with journalists, TV cameras and nosey

neighbors. Everyone wants a piece of this story. At the

defendant's table, Jay, slick once more in Armani, watches Theo

approach the witness box with a new-found confidence.

Sitting in the front row of the public gallery, Marie is riveted

on the action. At the back of the courtroom, Kristen fidgets

nervously beside Morrison as Theo steps up, ready to question the

newly compliant star witness in this sensational rape trial...

A hushed silence. Marie, Jay, Theo all wait expectantly...

Elena clears her throat.

A collective intake of breath from the crowd.

Theo's balls shrink instantly.

T

reeling, caught off-guard, stumbling over his words, trying to

give the girl one last chance to make good on her promise.

A smirking Meese doesn't even bother to stand up.

Theo's stumped. His eyes plead with Elena to take the ball and run

with it. She does. Unfortunately it's to the wrong end zone.

She pauses, for emphasis. Judge, jury, gallery, press corps, the

town of Blue Bay, the state of Florida hangs on her every word...

That's it. The court goes berserk, flashbulbs exploding, along

with the veins in Jay's head.

Kristen's reeling from shock...

Marie leaps to her feet, screams...

Marie has to be restrained, trying to break through the crowds to

claw Elena's tear stained eyes out...

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

A small Television blares out today's top story...

T

CLICK. The TV turns off. Marie sits huddled in Jay's unfinished

concrete building site office, staring at the darkened television

set. Mascara laden tear tracks line her perfect face.

She lets the champagne bottle slip through her fingers and it

smashes on the concrete floor. Strangely the dregs of the

champagne start running down the floor...

Marie's heart suddenly skips a beat as she thinks she hears the

rustling of plastic from outside the office.

No answer. She steels herself, gets shakily to her feet, stumbling

drunkenly toward the door...

EXT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Kristen stands in the darkened doorway of Elena's less-than-

welcoming trailer. She knocks.

No answer. She tries the door handle. It's unlocked. She takes a

deep breath, steps inside.

INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Kristen flips on a light switch. The room is illuminated for a

split second before the bulb surges and burns out, leaving Kristen

in the near-darkness...

She takes out a FLASHLIGHT, creeps through the front room,

stepping over the discarded pizza boxes and assorted detritus.

The beam of light finds a small BLUE PILL nestled in the

carpeting. Kristen picks it up, slides it into her pocket...

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Marie steps cautiously through the unfinished concrete top floor,

past the crime scene tape. In the dim light, her eyes dart to

every corner, every shadow.

S

into darkness. Slowly the eerie forensic ULTRA VIOLET LIGHTS

switch on, filling the room with black light.

And with a knot growing in the pit of her stomach, Marie slowly

turns, coming face to face with...

Elena, her arch-nemesis...

INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Kristen moves slowly into Elena's bedroom, shines her light on the

walls. What she sees makes the blood run chill in her veins.

Barely able to breathe, she takes out her cell phone.

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Elena and Marie stare each other down. You could cut the tension

with a chainsaw, until...

A sinister grin spreads across Elena's face as she holds up the

breathtaking Mother-Daughter diamonds, reflecting an unearthly

glow under the UV lights.

This brings a mile-wide smile to Marie as she dances into Elena's

arms. Their lips come together in a passionate kiss as their hands

dance over each other's trembling bodies. When they finally

break...

And they kiss again, lips locked tighter than Jay's jail cell...

EXT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Morrison's unmarked sedan pulls to a stop beside Kristen's car,

and the harried Detective steps out, looking extremely unhappy.

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Elena and Marie are locked in their carnal embrace, failing to

notice the florescent lights flickering back on. Suddenly Elena

feels the sharp pain of teeth biting into her neck...

She looks down to see DENTAL ALGINATE MOLDINGS of Jay's teeth

being held by a smiling Chad.

The girls look up to see a beaming Chad, holding the teeth

molding. Elena just shakes her head...

Chad works the spring hinge of the dentures like a deranged

ventriloquist act...

He sets the dentures down on the concrete floor, and takes in the

sight of the magnificent diamonds.

He and Elena help Marie out of her blouse while Elena runs her

hands all over him...

INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Morrison and Kristen's flashlights cut through the darkness as

they move back into Elena's bedroom.

W

They get into the bedroom and Morrison's jaw goes slack as Kristen

shines her light on the walls...

The walls are covered with NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS, all concerning

Kristen's rape: "Police unable to find frat house rapist,"

"Teenage victim wants 'justice' in rape case," "'You may not

remember, but you'll never forget,' only thing victim remembers"

K

They suddenly freeze as the front door swings open, the blood

running cold in their veins as Uncle Marty stumbles inside. They

hold their breath, praying he doesn't see them, standing in

Elena's doorway. Uncle Marty just mumbles something incoherent and

collapses face first onto the couch, out like a light...

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Chad reaches into an evidence bag filled with BLUE PILLS. He

removes three...

Laughter as   the girl's accept the roofies, swallowing them like

candy. Chad   gulps down the third as Elena begins to run her hands

up and down   Marie's back and shoulders. Chad's hands are all over

Marie as he   helps slip off her bra.

Elena's lips move hungrily across Chad's face, until they find his

mouth. They kiss deeply.

Marie runs her hands up and down Elena's bare back. Elena turns

back to her with a mischievous grin.

Damn straight.

EXT. COUNTY JAIL - DAY

The early morning sun illuminates a massive slab of windowless

concrete surrounded by barbed wire in the middle of nowhere...

INT. COUNTY JAIL - MORNING

Jay takes a seat on an uncomfortable metal chair in front of

bullet-proof glass. He's half the man he used to be, broken,

trembling, smoking like a chimney. His mind's still a steel trap,

just one that's rusted shut. He picks up the TWO-WAY PHONE...

Kristen takes the phone from Theo.

Jay hesitates, unsure how, or if, to proceed. Theo shifts

nervously. Jay gives J

Kristen's mind is racing, trying to piece together the puzzle.

EXT. SWAMP - DAY

Elena's airboat blasts through the reeds out into the middle of

nowhere. She cuts the engine, lets the boat drift, unwraps the

moldings of Jay's teeth from a cloth, as well as a VIDEO TAPE

marked "BLUE BAY DIVING MEET/MARIE'S BIRTHDAY", looks them over

one last time...

And tosses them into the mire, where they're soon gobbled by

ravenous Gators...

EXT. GATOR TRAILER PARK - MORNING

Elena glides her airboat to a stop on the muddy banks of the

trailer park, stomps over to her trailer, when she sees...

Two sets of tire tracks in the mud.

INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - MORNING

Elena stands in her bedroom, disbelief washing over her. No sign

of the newspaper articles. Her walls are barren.

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SCHOOL SWIMMING POOL - DAY

The diving team emerges from the locker room on their way to

practice. Lagging behind is Marie. She's about to catch up when

she runs smack dab into a panicked Elena.

Before anyone can see them, Marie pulls her away, to the outdoor

shower area, out of sight from her teammates. She turns on all

the shower heads.

Marie gently takes a hold of Elena's face.

Marie smiles, pulls Elena close as the steam rises all around.

Elena can't fess up. Not now...

Marie kisses her softly on the forehead. Her cheek.

Elena's damp tank top clings to her perfect body.

Marie brushes a strand of hair away from Elena's face.

A mile wide smile stretches across Marie's lips...

T

EXT. UNDERWATER - DAY

Sunlight cuts through the dark blue surface, illuminating Marie's

lucky ring gold ring that drifts down gently until...

Marie comes diving down into the crystalline water, plucks the

soon-to-be diamond ring from the bottom of the pool...

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SWIMMING POOL - DAY

Marie surfaces at the edge of the pool. She places the ring onto

the deck, pulls herself out of the water.

She tries not to show surprise when she comes face to face with

Kristen, who's picked up her ring, runs it around her fingers...

Marie glances nervously back at the pool, where other members of

the diving team go about their workout.

Kristen studies the ring for a moment, then ventures...

This time Marie can't hide her shock.

M

Marie's taking a beating, doing her best to remain standing.

She's a bad liar.

Kristen moves in for the kill.

Marie watches in fascination as Kristen presses the top of the

ring against the back of her hand. Hard. Winces, then...

She hands the ring back to Marie. Not so lucky anymore...

I

INT. BLUE BAY PD HALLWAY - DAY

Chad strolls gingerly down the hallway, opens the door to the

forensics lab, freezing when he sees...

INT. BLUE BAY PD FORENSICS - DAY

Kristen, waiting patiently for him.

She hands him the Blue Pill she found in Elena's trailer.

Chad tries to keep his cool.

While Chad goes about his work, Kristen begins nosing around the

office. Chad looks over his shoulder.

She starts flipping through EVIDENCE PHOTOS...

She holds up the photograph of the four circular indentations the

Judge questioned Chad about in court...

She holds up the back of her hand, where she'd made the

indentation with Marie's ring.

Kristen smiles.

Chad has no answer to that. He can only blink stupidly and pray

his silence doesn't incriminate him further. Kristen heads for the

door...

INT. CLIFFORD MANSION - NIGHT

The massive front door swings open and Marie crosses the foyer,

and is about to ascend the magnificent staircases when she hears

the clanking of glass coming from the kitchen.

Her heart is in her throat as she calls out...

No answer.

INT. CLIFFORD MANSION - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Marie enters the lavish kitchen, stops in her tracks when she sees

Chad standing at the full bar, mixing the strongest drink known to

man.

Chad fidgets nervously.

Marie scoffs, steps up to the bar, gets in Chad's face.

Marie shakes her head, resolute.

Chad's trembling hands pour the drink, most of the liquid making

it in to two MARTINI GLASSES...

She downs half the drink in one giant gulp.

Chad's trembling, looking like he could lose it at any second.

She slugs the rest of the drink, strides away and Chad follows

like a lapdog...

INT. CLIFFORD MANSION - JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Nothing's been touched in Jay's office, the drops of blood the

Cubans extracted from his thumb as a warning stain the white

carpet black...

Marie walks over to his desk, opens a draw. Removes a metallic

lock box.

Marie rolls her eyes, takes a key from a delicate chain around her

neck and fumbles with the lock. Finally she opens the box,

revealing the Mother-Daughter diamonds, resting on velvet lining.

The sparkling diamonds seem to have a calming effect on Chad.      He

stops shaking, his voice becoming more steady...

Marie stumbles as she takes a step toward him.

She looks to the empty glass in her hand, then begins to sway,

watching in horror as Chad drops the diamonds into his pocket...

Marie falls flat on her face, her world crashing to BLACK.

EXT. EVERGLADES - MORNING

The blinding morning sunlight climbs the horizon, the still water

of the endless swampland glistening like diamonds...

Elena sits out on her idling airboat, in the midst of the

sawgrass, smoking. The peace is shattered by her ringing

CELLPHONE.

INT. CLIFFORD MANSION - JAY'S OFFICE - MORNING

Marie has the phone cradled between her shoulder and ear, rubbing

her aching head, slowly getting her wits back. Nothing like good

old fashioned vengeful rage to combat a nasty hangover.

EXT. SWAMPS - MORNING

Elena stands on the edge of the airboat, fear rising in her.

Elena lets out an anguished wail.

INT. CLIFFORD MANSION - KITCHEN - MORNING

Marie's fevered mind is racing as she glances at the wall clock.

7:30. Finally a desperate plan scratches its way to the surface.

EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY

The deafening roar of an air boat cutting through dense sawgrass,

speeding across the endless swampland expanse. Elena expertly

maneuvers the machine, the wind racing through her hair...

EXT. SWAMP ROAD - DAY

Chad's speakers blare out heavy metal as his rusty DAEWOO bangs

down the desolate swamp dirt road through the thick trees. Every

hundred feet or so, the road runs parallel with the water, then

cuts back into the trees.

C

He does a double take just as the road disappears back into the

trees. That wasn't...it couldn't be, could it?

The winding dirt road crosses back to swampside and Chad's worst

fears come true...Elena's racing along side of him in the AIRBOAT,

fighting to keep up...

INT. CHAD'S CAR - DAY

The road runs parallel to the swamp again and Chad's eyes nearly

burst from their sockets as he sees the airboat now alongside him,

matching his speed.

Chad's heart stops.

He spins round, looks straight ahead at the BMW RACING RIGHT AT

HIM!

He yanks the steering wheel hard left, swerves his car clean off

the dirt road and into the thick swathe of Melaluca trees, Marie's

BMW shoots past, missing his car by inches...

INT. MARIE'S BMW - CONTINUOUS

Marie slams on her brakes, brings her BMW to a skidding halt on

the dirt road. She looks back over her shoulder, at the swaying

Melaluca trees. No sign of Chad's car...

EXT. SWAMPSIDE - CONTINUOUS

Elena brings the airboat to rest at swamp side, leaps into the

reeds and clambers up to the dirt road. There's no sign of Chad's

car, just a hole in the dense undergrowth where it ploughed

through...

Marie comes running up to join Elena, a tire iron in hand...

Marie stalks down the path Chad's car took off the dirt road...

Elena's breath catches in her throat. Marie disappears into the

trees and she's alone, out on the deserted swamp road...

She hears a scream, a girl's scream...

Elena sprints into the thick of the trees...

INT. BLUE BAY PD OFFICES - DAY

Kristen is sitting at Detective Morrison's cluttered desk, her

brow furrowed as she shuffles through the stack of newspaper

articles she pulled from Elena's wall.

Morrison stands in the doorway, watching her.

Kristen looks up from the articles, into Morrison's smiling face.

She smiles back.

Morrison turns and walks right into a suit with an FBI badge

identifying him as AGENT MILTON DAMMERS. The buzzcut agent drops

BOXES at Morrison's feet.

EXT. SWAMP CLEARING - DAY

Marie is standing in a clearing, staring at Chad's wrecked car, at

the top of a small slope, wrapped around a Melaluca tree like a

Christmas present.

Her piercing screams force Elena to come running...

Marie stops screaming, her face contorting in anger...

She points to the front seat of the crashed car...

Elena can barely bring herself to look inside. Marie shoves her in

the back, pushing her towards the open driver's side door. Elena

gasps when she looks inside the car. Chad's not there.

Marie clambers up the wreckage of the car, stands on the roof. She

surveys the swamp all around her like the lioness she is...

INT. BLUE BAY PD EVIDENCE LOCKER - DAY

Morrison grumbles as he scans his key card, opening the wire mesh

door to the evidence locker. He picks up a box and enters,

Kristen, also carrying a box, a step behind.

Morrison blushes as he absently adds the boxes to the groaning

shelves stuffed with Black Widow evidence. Kristen notices the

bundles of cash stored in and amongst the Black Widow evidence...

Morrison shakes his head, ruefully, when a sudden sharp beeping

has Kristen reaching into her pocket, fishing out a handheld GPS.

A red flashing dot moves quickly in the middle of the map...

EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY

Elena runs full pelt after Marie, through dense swampland, the

plastic ankle bracelet around her leg silently flashing red...

She swings around, finally spotting a bloody hand print on one of

the ashen tree trunks...

She races off in hot pursuit. Elena's about to follow when she

notices the red light flashing on her ankle bracelet...

Marie slows, looks back to Elena.

Marie snarls...

Elena can barely speak...

EXT. SWAMP - DAY

Chad's face is drained of color as he runs through the dense

swampland, hugging the priceless diamonds. Sweat cascades from his

brow, and thick plumes of blood from wounds all over his body

swirl in the stagnant waters...

Most gruesome of all is a broken TURN SIGNAL embedded in his right

leg. As the water gets knee-deep, the last of Chad's reserve

energy goes. He collapses in the stagnant marsh.

Not far off, GATORS circle. It's only a matter of time before they

notice the blood in the water.

EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY

The small bit of solid ground gives way to swampland. Elena steps

into the water, her Ankle Bracelet FLASHING RED.

A splashing sound from up ahead silences both girls...

The sound echoes off the dense trees. Marie points left.

Marie heads off in the opposite direction. Elena hesitates, wants

to follow, but does as she's told, and goes left, soon enveloped

by canopy of trees...

INT. KRISTEN'S CAR - DAY

Kristen blasts down the Blue Bay streets, a siren in the

windshield blaring...

The handheld GPS continues to monitor Elena's exact position in

the midst of the swamp...

E

EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY

Elena stumbles through the thick, stagnant water, scouring the

horizon for any sign of Chad...

A rustling sound stops her in her tracks. Dead silence, until...

A HAND GRABS HER LEG, AROUND THE FLASHING ANKLE BRACELET, DRAGS

HER DOWN INTO THE SWAMP...

EXT. EVERGLADES CLEARING - DAY

Marie hacks her way through the overgrown foliage with the tire

iron, like a Prada clad big-game hunter...

No reply, just her own voice echoing back...

She rolls her eyes.

EXT. SWAMP ROAD - DAY

Kristen's unmarked car races across the desolate swamp road.

INT. KRISTEN'S CAR - DAY

She checks the flashing GPS signal. Getting closer...

EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY

Elena bursts up to the surface of the bloody water, gasps for

breath. Looking down she sees Chad, holding on to her like his

life depends on it. It does...

He pulls her back down into the water, just as she catches a

glance of the circling GATORS...

Using her as leverage, Chad pulls himself out of the swamp,

climbing over her writhing body to the relative safety of solid

ground...

Elena coughs and splutters, floundering in the blood soaked water.

The ravenous Gators approach, sensing a feeding frenzy...

Elena freezes, looking round at the black eyes breaking the

surface of the bloody water, gliding in for the kill...

She reaches out a hand to Chad, only a few feet away...

H

her trembling hand. Just balls his fist, squeezing every last drop

of blood out of the open wounds on his palm...

The dark blood cascades down into the water around Elena...

And he smiles as the Gators ease open their powerful jaws...

WHACK!

Chad's eyes roll back into his head as blood flows from his nose,

ears and mouth. He falls forward, stiff as a board, and SPLASHES

down into the water next to an apoplectic Elena. Behind him stands

Marie, the BLOODY TIRE IRON in hand...

Marie reaches out a hand, pulls Elena out of the water. She

collapses onto her back and sucks in the stagnant swamp air...

Elena can't move, leaving Marie to wade into the swamp...

EXT. SWAMP ROAD - DAY

Kristen approaches a fork in the swamp road at high speed. She

checks the GPS scanner. It doesn't show her which way to turn...

Split second decision. Left. She spins the wheel, takes the left

hand fork...

Bad choice. Just a few meters down the right fork is an abandoned

BMW, an idle airboat, a crashed car, one dead man and two wild,

wild things...

EXT. SWAMP ROAD - DAY

Elena and Marie, soaked to the bone, drag Chad's cold, dead corpse

out of the trees. Marie drops the body, heads straight for her

abandoned BMW. Elena follows, stumbling through the vines, her

clothes dripping wet, shivering more from nerves than cold...

Marie spins round, a vicious look in her eyes. She holds the blood

soaked diamonds in her hand...

Elena looks down to her flashing ankle bracelet...

Marie turns back around, flings open the BMW door and gets in.

She fires up the powerful engine, speeds away in a cloud of dust,

leaving Elena the most deeply unpleasant task of her young life...

EXT. CHAD'S CRASHED CAR - AFTERNOON

Elena struggles to drag Chad's bloody body back to his crashed

car. The tail lights flicker, throwing an ominous red glow over

the dense thicket of overhanging trees.

With a Herculean effort she manages to stuff Chad's inert body

into the driver's seat. She stumbles back, horrified at the grim

tableau before her...

EXT. MUSEUM - AFTERNOON

Marie's car comes barreling into the parking lot outside the stone

Museum building.

INT. MUSEUM - AFTERNOON

The Curator paces back and forth, like an expectant father, in

front of the empty glass case that used to house the diamonds.

Marie bursts into the Museum, and he strides up to meet her,

shocked when he sees Marie's covered in blood, sweat and guilt...

The Curator nods nervously.

S

The Curator nods, unsure if he inquire further...

Marie finally pulls out two blood soaked Diamonds from her bag,

thrusts them at the Curator. He screws up his wrinkled face,

afraid to touch them...

EXT. CHAD'S CAR - AFTERNOON

With trembling hands, Elena opens the trunk of Chad's crashed car.

She pulls out a plastic gas container, sloshing the fuel around

inside, then trailing it back across the vine covered ground...

She carefully places the empty container down, standing twenty

feet back from the wreckage, fumbling in her pocket for a match...

She can barely control her hands, her whole body shaking in

fear...

Finally she pulls out a MATCHBOOK, still sopping wet from the

swamp. She strikes match after match, but they won't light, until,

finally, one produces a tiny flame that simmers for a second then

smoulders out...

In frustration, she runs back to Chad's car, looking desperately

for a lighter, climbing all the way in. Because of the slight

slope it's on, the car's flimsy door slams shut behind her.

Elena pays no heed, continues to rummage through the glove

compartment.

She's cut off as the WRECKED CAR'S HORN BLARES OUT!

Deafening, the sound echoes around the dense undergrowth. Elena's

heart skips a beat. Chad's corpse has slumped forward against the

steering wheel.

She struggles with all her might to pull Chad's body back off the

horn...

S

over at Chad's body slumped to the side, leaning against the

driver's side door...

Not as sorry as she's going to be...

The match she discarded outside only seconds ago continues to

smoulder for a second, then REIGNITES!

INT. MUSEUM - AFTERNOON

The Curator carefully examines the diamond, turning it over and

over in his hands. Marie stands over him, impatiently tapping her

muddy shoe on the marble floor...

The Curator looks up to her, bemused.

Marie smiles a wicked grin.

EXT. CHAD'S CAR - AFTERNOON

The discarded match has set fire to the surrounding vines on the

ground, and slowly the fire edges it way towards the line of

gasoline that Elena trailed from Chad's wrecked car...

INSIDE THE CAR

Elena reaches over, carefully closes Chad's bloodshot eyes.

Satisfied, she turns to get out, only to find the passenger side

door LOCKED...

She tries the handle. Tries it again. Desperately yanks it. Not

opening, no sir...

Elena looks over, see Chad's limp elbow on the door lock...

OUTSIDE THE CAR

The small brush fire reaches the pooled gasoline and...WHOOSH!

INSIDE THE CAR

Elena can't help but hear the unmistakable sound of FLAMES

CRACKLING. Through the smashed rear window she sees the line of

FIRE racing towards the car she's trapped in!

She reaches over, clawing her way past Chad's corpse, trying to

reach the door lock. Her bloody fingers slip on the lock, unable

to pull it up.

THE FIRE's SHOOTING towards the crashed car, only a few feet

away...

Elena fumbles with the lock, tears streaming down her face.

The line of fire hits the crashed car, and ENGULFS it instantly.

Bright ORANGE FLAMES cover the wreckage...

INT. MUSEUM - AFTERNOON

The Curator carefully sets down the diamonds on the marble floor.

Marie looks at him like he's mad.

The Curator hovers his heel over the biggest Diamond. Marie

screams out!

He slams his foot down and the DIAMOND SHATTERS!

INT. CHAD'S CRASHED CAR - AFTERNOON

Elena SCREAMS as the passenger side window next to her SMASHES,

SPLINTERING into a million glass fragments.

Hands reach in and grab her, pulling her through the FLAMES...

Seconds later Elena finds herself on the swamp floor, in Kristen's

singed arms...

Elena can barely talk, looking back at the flaming wreckage in

front of her...

The flames reflect in her tear-filled eyes.

INT. MUSEUM - AFTERNOON

Marie stands aghast at the sight of her diamonds, in a million

tiny pieces on the museum's marble floor...

Every muscle in Marie's body contracts...She stands before the

empty diamond exhibit case, runs her fingers over the portrait of

her mother cradling her as a baby.

And as the disbelief gives way to anger she rips the portrait from

the case and tears it to shreds...

There's no stopping her now. Red-faced, she lashes out at the

display case with a devastating kick, the glass SHATTERING...

She continues her rampage regardless, ripping a FIRE EXTINGUISHER

from the wall and hurling it through another display case...

EXT. BLUE BAY PD - NIGHT

Storm clouds gather over the whitewashed Police station...

INT. BLUE BAY PD INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT

Elena sits with her head in her hands, across from Kristen in an

anonymous interview room.

Elena looks up, tears streaking her mascara.

Elena slumps back down, her head on the table.

Elena sobs, can't look Kristen in the eye.

The door to the interview room swings open, and Detective Morrison

strides through, a fresh-from-the-printer REPORT in his hands...

He flips the pages of the report...

E

Elena has no answers as Morrison takes the cuffs from his belt,

snaps them on Elena's wrists.

Kristen stands up, shaking her head.

Elena looks at her pleadingly.

Kristen stops. Thinks for a moment. Nods to Morrison as he drags

Elena to her feet.

Morrison just sneers.

Morrison considers this.

He's about to speak, when Elena's cell phone rings. Kristen takes

it from Elena, looks at the CALLER ID, sees Marie's name...

She holds the phone up.

Elena nods slowly. Morrison turns to Kristen.

K

Morrison weighs his options, then finally nods.

Kristen clicks the phone ON, holds it to Elena's ear.

INT. MARIE'S BMW - NIGHT

Marie speeds wildly down the deserted Blue Bay streets, one

trembling hand holding a cigarette, the other her cellphone.

Marie takes a long drag from her cigarette.

INT. BLUE BAY PD INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT

Kristen is listening in on the whole conversation. She cups her

hand over the phone, whispers to Elena.

Elena nods and Kristen puts the phone back to her lips.

Elena's reeling. Kristen motions for her to continue.

Silence on the end of the line...

INT. MARIE'S BMW - NIGHT

Marie considers this for a long moment.    Finally...

INT. BLUE BAY PD INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT

Click. She's hung up. Kristen nods to Morrison...

He tosses her his electronic keycard...

E

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT

The Blue Bay High pool is illuminated in the dead of night,

casting blue ripples over the bleachers where Elena waits

nervously. She can't help but fiddle with the wire hidden beneath

her shirt...

INT. MORRISON'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Morrison listens nervously to Elena's tinny voice coming in

through the speaker...

The Detective shoots Kristen a concerned look.

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SWIMMING POOL - CONTINUOUS

Elena adjusts the mic taped to her chest, wincing as the tape

pulls her delicate skin.

Elena looks up guiltily. Marie is standing by the side of the

pool. How much did she see?

The word's stick in Elena's throat...

Marie rolls her eyes.

INT. MORRISON'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Kristen winces as she listens to the girls' conversation.

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SWIMMING POOL - CONTINUOUS

Elena walks down the bleachers, approaching a skeptical Marie.

Marie's wavering.

Elena reaches Marie, puts her hands on her hips.

Grinds against her. Slowly, sensually.

Elena tries to pull away, but Marie drags her back until their

faces are inches apart.

There's no denying it. Marie slowly draws her hand down Elena's

face, down her neck, to her chest. So close to the wire. Finally

places her palm over Elena's heart...

BOOM BOOM, BOOM BOOM, BOOM BOOM...

INT. MORRISON'S CAR - NIGHT

Morrison and Kristen listen intently in their headphones, unable

to breath...

EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SWIMMING POOL - CONTINUOUS

Elena and Marie stand there for what seems like an eternity,

unblinking...

B

Finally Marie smiles...

INT. COUNTY JAIL - NIGHT

Jay laughs, as he sits across from Marie and Elena, separated by

an inch of bullet proof glass. Theo stands by the door.

Jay nods slowly.

Marie's jaw tightens. Jay leans back.

Jay bursts out laughing again.

Jay stops laughing, leans back in to the inch thick glass.

Marie holds up a DIGITAL VIDEO TAPE...

Marie opens the cassette housing, ready to rip the tape apart...

Theo interjects...

The tortured screams of inmates echo in Jay's ears.

A PRISON GUARD puts a massive hand on Jay's shoulder...

Jay sighs...

Marie shakes her head.

Jay's led away in shackles...

EXT. BLUE BAY STREETS - NIGHT

Marie's BMW flies down the deserted Blue Bay streets, blasting

through red lights.

INT. MARIE'S BMW - CONTINUOUS

Marie handles the car like a Formula One driver, and with twice

the intensity. The G-force pins Elena back against the seat.

Marie steps on the gas.

Marie steps on the gas.

Marie steps on the gas. She ain't saying a word, and time's

running out for Elena...

INT. MORRISON'S POLICE CAR - NIGHT

Morrison struggles to keep up with Marie's Bullit-esque driving.

Kristen stays focused on the one-sided conversation in her

headphones...

EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Marie's BMW screeches to a stop outside the beachfront condos, and

Marie strides towards the construction site entrance.

Elena gets out the car, feeling decidedly sick. She circuitously

adjusts the microphone taped to her chest, then follows Marie into

the dark, unfinished building

INT. JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Marie enters the makeshift office like a wolf stalking her prey,

heading straight for the safe. With a rock steady hand, she works

the lock...CLICK...

EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDINGS - NIGHT

Morrison brings his clunky Police sedan to a halt around the back

of the building site.

I

INT. MORRISON'S CAR - NIGHT

Kristen listens intently to the live feed.

INT. JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Marie's working the safe combination like a master thief, spinning

it nimbly between her buffed nails. CLICK...

Elena stands in the makeshift office doorway, trying to coax

something incriminating from Marie's perfect lips.

Marie doesn't even look round, concentrating on the job at hand.

Elena's reeling.

CLICK. Third and final tumbler falls. The safe door swings open,

revealing a STACK of CASH and Jay's HANDGUN...

INT. MORRISON'S CAR - NIGHT

Kristen shakes her head. It's hopeless, Elena can't get Marie to

say an incriminating word...

INT. JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Marie pulls out a wad of crisp, clean bills, draws them across her

nose like a wine connoisseur.

She dances over to Elena, waves the cash in her face.

Marie slides up against Elena, fluttering the cash over her in the

world's most expensive shower. Elena couldn't be less interested,

focused on getting that confession...

Marie presses up against Elena, pushing her up against the

unfinished dry wall. Kisses her passionately, finally silencing

her for a few, brief, electric seconds. And when she pulls away

her fingers dance down Elena's shirt until...

S

dangling cord in her hands, her face caught in a permanent snarl.

The blood drains from Elena's face...

INT. MORRISON'S POLICE CAR - NIGHT

A piercing feedback forces Kristen to throw aside the headphones.

She looks to Morrison.

Morrison draws his gun.

Kristen shakes her head resolutely.

BANG! A GUNSHOT echoes in the darkness...

Morrison sprints over to the building site, leaving Kristen in the

car, alone.

INT. JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Elena stands with her hands up, an ugly bullet hole in the wall

just beside her. Marie keeps Jay's gun trained on her as she

unloads the cash from the safe...

Marie takes dead aim once more...

Marie's finger tightens on the trigger...

INT. MORRISON'S POLICE CAR - NIGHT

BOOM!

Kristen tenses as the gunshot echoes throughout the construction

site. She reaches across to the driver's seat, grabs the

SHOTGUN...

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Elena scrambles across the concrete floor, desperately trying to

make it to the relative safety of one of the support pillars. She

sees the forensic UV light switch on the floor, reaches for it...

MARIE

stands in the shattered doorway, surveys the expansive, unfinished

floor. Is about to unleash a hail of bullets when...

The WORK LIGHTS flicker out, replaced by the eerie ULTRA VIOLET

LIGHTS scattered around the unfinished floor...Bathed in the

florescent blue glow of the lights, Elena scrambles to safety

behind a pillar. Her shirt GLOWS, her eyes like beacons...

MORRISON

Sweeps through the second floor, meticulously checking every

corner, every shadow...

KRISTEN

Runs towards the unfinished building, looking up to the UV glow on

the fourth floor. She sprints for the INDUSTRIAL ELEVATOR...

MARIE

scours the bizarre darkness, hears a sound. BOOM! The orange

muzzle flash illuminates the floor briefly as Marie shoots

randomly. The flimsy plaster walls EXPLODE...

MORRISON

Enters the third floor from the fire escape, continues his

meticulous sweep of the building.

KRISTEN

Stands in the industrial elevator, jabbing the 4th floor button,

hyperventilating as more gunshots EXPLODE. She clutches Morrison's

shotgun to her chest, getting closer to the top floor.

ELENA

shields herself as plaster rains down on her, unable to see

through the cloud of dust under the UV lights, until...

BOOM! A bullet sparks off rebar inches from her foot. She looks up

to see the barrel of Jay's gun. Marie's face is contorted

maniacally as she squeezes down on the trigger...

MORRISON

Runs up the fire escape stairs when a final deafening GUN SHOT

rings out. Followed by SCREAMS. He rips open the fourth floor fire

door, tearing through the building, pushing through thick plastic

sheeting until he finds himself under the UV glow.

T

and floor. He sees Elena, in a fetal ball, trembling

uncontrollably.

Beside her, Marie lies dead, her chest a gaping crimson mess,

Jay's gun still clutched tightly in her cold, dead hands.

Kristen looks up at him, almost too shocked to speak.   Morrison's

shotgun is still smoking in her hands.

Morrison steps forward, calmly, takes the gun from her.

EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDINGS - LATER

The new crime scene is alive with activity. Cops, reporters,

bystanders. Morrison sips coffee as PARAMEDICS wheel Marie's

corpse to the ambulance.

One of them hands something to Morrison. A blood-splattered

digital video tape.

Morrison takes it without a word...

Morrison turns around, sees Kristen approaching, still visibly

shaken.

K

She hesitates...

Morrison considers this, picks his words carefully.

Kristen nods.

Detective. He closes his eyes, savors the moment. As she pulls

away, she hands him a card.

Morrison beams.

She leans in, kisses him sweetly on the lips. Morrison watches her

walk away. In spite of all the shit that's gone down, he's

probably the happiest son of a bitch in all of Blue Bay.

EXT. COUNTY JAIL - MORNING

Morrison's unmarked Sedan idles outside the barbed wire fences of

the County Jail. The gate slowly opens and guards lead a dazed Jay

Clifford outside, wincing from the bright sunlight.

Morrison gets out of the car, meets Jay.

He sure has.

It's all he can do to keep from breaking down.

Jay shakes his head.

Morrison watches sadly as Jay stumbles past him, walking to

nowhere in particular.

No reply.

The Detective heads back to his car, stops for a second, reaches

into his pocket and pulls out Kristen's already-dog eared card. He

can't resist. Dials the number After four rings there's no

message. Just a BEEP.

H

Morrison's disconnected. Puzzled, he gets into his car.

INT. BLUE BAY PD - DAY

Morrison gets the shock of his life when he enters the usually

quiet police station and finds himself in the midst of utter

pandemonium.

Federal Officers are everywhere.

He tries to pick his way through the crowd when he's intercepted

by Officer Entwistle.

INT. BLUE BAY PD - MORRISON'S OFFICE - DAY

Entwistle leads Morrison into his office, where Agent Dammers sits

behind his desk.

INT. BLUE BAY PD EVIDENCE LOCKER - DAY

Morrison stands in the middle of the evidence locker, dumbfounded.

Dammers watches him, his arms crossed.

Morrison's heart is beating a mile a minute.

INT. DADE COUNTY PAROLE OFFICE - DAY

A PRETTY RECEPTIONIST sits behind a sparse desk when the phone

rings.

INT. BLUE BAY PD EVIDENCE LOCKER - DAY

Morrison paces back and forth, on the phone, as Dammers watches,

not saying a word...

INT. DADE COUNTY PAROLE OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

The receptionist's fingers nimbly dance across the keyboard in

front of her.

INT. EVIDENCE LOCKER - CONTINUOUS

Morrison struggles to control his emotions...

EXT. PARADISE - DAY

Soft waves lap against a pristine beach. Palm trees sway in the

warm breeze. A steady WHIRRING is the only sound that disturbs the

serenity. Is it a lawn mower? A leaf blower?

There's a gorgeous beach house with a patio looking out onto this

idyllic scene. The swimming pool glistens in the bright tropical

Caribbean Sunlight.

And stretched out on a recliner in the sheerest of bikinis is none

other than Kristen Richards, soaking up rays.

At her side is a PAPER SHREDDER, and between sips from a pina

colada, she feeds document after document, each one stamped BLACK

WIDOW EVIDENCE in red ink...

Kristen looks over at Elena, equally stunning in a matching

bikini.

A broad grin stretches across her lips as Elena empties the

contents of a velvet pouch onto a table.

T

Elena nods.

Elena picks up the bigger diamond, hands it to Kristen.

Kristen picks up the smaller diamond, hands it to Elena.

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDINGS - DAY

Morrison paces the infamous crime scene, at wit's end. Dammers

stands off to the side, just watching him with a bemused look

etched across his face.

He tries to think of an appropriate slur for Elena. Can't come up

with anything, continues pacing frantically.

Dammers shrugs.

Dammers nods slowly.

Morrison's heart sinks. He looks like he's going to faint.

Steadies himself, placing both hands against the wall, just as Jay

did that fateful night seemingly a lifetime ago...

EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDINGS - DAY

Dammers leads Morrison to his awaiting car. They pass MR. Barajas

and Cicatriz. Mr. Barajas is in his usual foul mood...

Morrison stops, regards Barajas...

EXT. PARADISE - DAY

Elena and Kristen lay side-by-side on loungers, soaking in the

sun, when a voice rouses them...

They look up to see Jay, standing before them in a pair of

colorful shorts, no shirt, sipping at a martini...

Jay glances at Elena, as he downs the last drops from his drink.

Elena suddenly gets to her feet.

He hands Elena his empty glass, then kisses Kristen tenderly.

When they break...

Kristen doesn't reply. Just smiles, watches Elena over by the

outside bar, mixing Jay's drink...

Jay turns around, smiles at Elena as she holds out his drink.

Jay takes it from her appreciatively, sips at it as he sidles off

to the swimming pool.

He starts to climb the high dive. When he gets to the top, he

looks down at Elena and Kristen, smiles.

Kristen calls back up at him.

Says it so sweetly, it takes a moment for Jay to register the

sinister implications...

His eyes are blood shot. He starts to sway atop the high dive.

Jay's swaying uneasily on the high dive platform...

Jay's head is spinning as he looks to Kristen, to Elena.

He can't quite get his mind around it. Everything's becoming

blurry.

He looks at the martini glass, thinks he sees blue residue, before

it slips from his fingers, falls 20 feet to the concrete below,

shattering into a million pieces like so many fake diamonds...

E

A broad grin stretches across Elena's lips as she finishes...

Jay tries to take a step forward. He stumbles. Tries in vain to

regain his balance. It's too late. He falls. 20 feet to the

unyielding concrete, exploding like a paper bag filled with

vegetable soup...

They stand back, watching Jay's pancaked body draining its

precious blood into the ice blue pool...

They gather the diamonds, walk away as the pool turns crimson

red...

THE END

As the credits roll....

INT. OFFICE - MORNING

An anonymous, luxurious office. A fat, balding, semi-conscious MAN

lies curled up on the floor as Elena, half undressed and wearing a

black wig, shovels cash into her oversized purse...

There's a crackle on her WALKIE-TALKIE...

From outside, she can hear the wailing of SIRENS. Getting closer.

Elena gets hesitantly to her feet, slides a stack of $100s in her

pocket for good measure.

Elena glances at the Man on the floor, his puffy eyes glazed over

like a jelly donut.

EXT. OFFICE - MORNING

Elena gets into a waiting car outside the bank. The getaway

driver...Kristen, of course...

A smile crosses Elena's perfect lips...

And the car pulls away from the curb just seconds before a fleet

of police cars screeches to a halt in front of the bank.

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - JAY'S OFFICE - DAY

Jay carefully places the stacks of cash into the wall safe in his

unfinished office.

Jay spins round, flabbergasted that someone's watching him.

Kristen calmly reaches into her purse, pulls out a handful of

marbles. Throws them onto the ground, letting them roll towards

B

Jay...

small circle, until they come to rest in the middle of the

concrete floor...

Jay's tiny mind can't take it all in.

Elena walks seductively into the unfinished office. It's on.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Marie sits in the bleachers by the side of the school dive pool,

looking at her Mother's soon-to-be-diamond ring through teary

eyes...

Elena stalks the bleachers behind her.

Elena jumps down the bleachers, sits down next to Marie.

INT. CHAD'S OFFICE - DAY

Behind closed doors, Chad's completing yet another dubious

transaction, handing over a bag of roofies. The buyer this

time...Marie...

Marie fishes out the money from her purse.

And it's that simple...

INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT

Chad uses Jay's teeth mouldings to bite Elena, as Marie trains

Jay's video camera on her, wailing on her in a drunken stupor.

Elena's face is pressed against the concrete wall...

INT. BLUE BAY FORENSICS LAB - NIGHT

Chad sits at his video console, all alone, expertly manipulating

the audio and video footage.

Chad presses play. On the video screen a frightened Elena is

huddled against the wall.

INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Elena watches as Marie and Theo drive away, then turns to the

glistening Mother Daughter diamonds. She opens a case with two

identical GLASS REPLICAS, and replaces the diamonds...

All the while, Uncle Marty SNORES his head off...

Uncle Marty's eyes snap open.

EXT. BEACH PARADISE - DAY

Kristen and Marie are sunning themselves on the crystalline beach

when someone stands before them, casting a shadow over their

sizzling bodies.

Looks over her sunglasses at...Uncle Marty...Only all cleaned up,

in a pair of Bermuda shorts that show off his milky white legs...

He clutches a briefcase...

Kristen nods to the briefcase in Uncle Marty's hand.

Uncle Marty lays the case down on the lounger, opens it, revealing

stacks of cash...

Kristen and Elena look to each other.

Uncle Marty shrugs.

Elena reaches down, pulls the diamonds from the sand. Hands them

over and is about to take the case of money when...

Elena looks to Kristen. They smile.

Like fuck.

THE END. AGAIN.

