EXT. BATTLEFIELD, JENKINS' FERRY, ARKANSAS - DAY

Heavy grey skies hang over a flooded field, the water two

feet deep. Cannons and carts, half-submerged and tilted,

their wheels trapped in the mud below the surface, are still

yoked to dead and dying horses and oxen.

A terrible battle is taking place; two infantry companies,

Negro Union soldiers and white Confederate soldiers, knee-

deep in the water, staggering because of the mud beneath,

fight each other hand-to-hand, with rifles, bayonets,

pistols, knives and fists. There's no discipline or strategy,

nothing depersonalized: it's mayhem and each side intensely

hates the other. Both have resolved to take no prisoners.

EXT. PARADE GROUNDS ADJACENT TO THE WASHINGTON NAVY YARD,

ANACOSTIA RIVER - NIGHT

Rain and fog. Union Army companies are camped out across the

grounds. Preparations are being made for the impending

assault on the Confederate port of Wilmington, North

Carolina.

Two black soldiers stand before a bivouacked Negro unit:

HAROLD GREEN, an infantryman in his late thirties, and IRA

CLARK, a cavalryman in his early twenties. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

sits on a bench facing Harold and Ira; his stovepipe hat is

at his side.

He nods in the direction of his cavalry.

That's right, sir. They killed a thousand rebel

Harold Green is a little startled at Clark's bluntness.

Green's offended at the way Clark is talking to Lincoln.

Lincoln smiles.

Lincoln laughs.

Green laughs.

TWO WHITE SOLDIERS have come up, two young kids, nervous and

excited.

President Lincoln, sir? Evening, boys.

You boys fight at Gettysburg? DAMN I can't believe it's -

I know the last part. "It is, Company up! Move it out!

uh, it is rather -"

Soldiers all over the field rise up at the mustering of the

troops. Names of regiments, brigades, divisions are called:

all across the field, the men put out fires, put on

knapsacks.

The second white soldier salutes, and the two move out.

Green salutes Lincoln as well and glances at Clark, who

remains, looking down. Green leaves. Clark looks up, salutes

Lincoln and, turning smartly, walks toward his unit.

Then he stops, turns back, faces Lincoln, who watches him. A

beat, and then, in a tone of admiration and cautious

admonishment, reminding Lincoln of his promise:

Clark salutes Lincoln again, turns again and walks away.

Lincoln watches him go. As he walks into the fog, Clark

continues reciting in a powerful voice:

Lincoln watches Clark until the fog's swallowed him up.

EXT. A SHIP AT SEA - NIGHT

A huge, dark, strange-looking steamship, part wood and part

iron, turreted like a giant ironclad monitor, is plowing

through the choppy black waters of an open sea.

Lincoln is alone, in darkness, on the deck, which has no

railing, open to the sea. The ship's tearing through rough

water, but there's little pitching, wind or spray. The deck

is dominated by the immense black gunnery turret.

Lincoln stares out towards a barely discernible horizon,

indicated by a weird, flickering, leaden glow, which appears

to recede faster than the fast-approaching ship.

INT. MARY'S BOUDOIR, SECOND FLOOR OF THE WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT

The room's cozy, attractive, cluttered, part dressmaker's

workshop, part repository of Mary's endless purchases:

clothing, fabrics, knicknacks, carpets. Books everywhere.

Lincoln reclines on a French chair, too small for his lengthy

frame. He's in shirtsleeves, vest unbuttoned and tie

unknotted, shoeless. He has an open folio filled with

documents on his lap.

MARY LINCOLN sits opposite, in a nightgown, housecoat and

night cap. She watches him in her vanity mirror.

She looks frightened.

TITLE: THE WHITE HOUSE

Mary looks at him, stricken with alarm.

He looks down at the carpet, then back up at her.

She delicately touches her head.

Mary studies Lincoln, thinking. Then a revelation:

Lincoln closes his folio.

Mary stands, goes up to him.

Seeing that he's not going to discuss this, she turns away,

walking to an open window.

Lincoln nods, though Mary isn't bothering to look at him.

She closes the window.

She watches as he leaves the room, smiling in bitter victory:

she's right.

INT. HALLWAY, LEAVING MARY'S BOUDOIR - NIGHT

Lincoln encounters ELIZABETH KECKLEY, a light-skinned black

woman, 38, Mary's dressmaker and close friend, holding a dark-

blue velvet bodice embroidered with jet beads.

Lincoln bends down to look at the intricate beading.

He nods, smiles, straightens up.

He continues down the hall. Mrs. Keckley starts to enter

Mary's boudoir, then stops, sensing something amiss. She

calls quietly after Lincoln:

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, SECOND FLOOR, WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT

A working room, sparsely furnished. Lincoln's desk is heaped

with files, books, newspapers. The desk's near a window, now

open. Comfortable chairs and a rocker are in a corner. Near

the fireplace, in which embers are dying, there's a long

table, eight chairs around it, settings by each chair of

inkwells and pens.

Dozens of maps cover the walls and the crowded bookcases.

Lincoln opens the door and enters to find his 10 year-old son

TAD LINCOLN near the hearth, sleeping, sprawled on a very

large military map. Lead toy soldiers are scattered across

it.

A large mahogany box, imprinted ALEXANDER GARDNER STUDIOS,

is open near Tad's head. The box contains large glass plates,

each framed in wood; these are photographic negatives. Tad's

been looking at several, which lie near him on the map.

Lincoln kneels by Tad and looks down at the map, a

topographical and strategic survey of the no-man's land

between Union and Confederate forces at Petersburg. He

scrutinizes the precisely drawn blue and grey lines.

He lifts one of the glass plates and holds it to the

firelight: it's a large photographic negative of a young

black boy. There's a caption, in elegant cursive script:

"Abner, age 12 - $500"

And another: "Two young boys, 10 & 14 - $700"

Lincoln puts the plates back in the box and closes the lid.

Carefully brushing the toy soldiers aside, he lies down

beside Tad. He touches Tad's hair and kisses his forehead.

Tad stirs as Lincoln gets on all fours; without really waking

up, knowing the routine, Tad climbs onto his father's back.

Tad holds on as his father stands, weary, and maybe a little

surprised to find his growing son slightly heavier than he

was the night before.

Lincoln carries Tad out of the room, closing the door.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON - MORNING

A new flagpole is being dedicated. Lincoln, in a black

overcoat and his stovepipe hat, and Treasury Secretary

WILLIAM FESSENDEN, 59, stand by the pole. They face an

audience of officials, clerks, dignitaries, wives, soldiers.

A Marine band finishes a jaunty instrumental rendition of "We

Are Coming Father Abra'am."

Two soldiers fasten a flag to the halyards. Lincoln moves

into place; as the crowd applauds, he takes a sheet of paper

from inside his hat and glances at it. Then he looks up.

He puts the paper away. The audience waits, expecting more.

He smiles at them. They applaud, some laughing. As Lincoln

turns the crank, hoisting the flag, a solo trumpet plays "We

Are Coming Father Abra'am" and the audience joins in. Among

them, Secretary of State WILLIAM SEWARD, 64, in a thick,

exquisite winter coat and hat, and Lincoln's dapper assistant

secretary, JOHN HAY, 27. Seward looks pleased.

EXT. A CARRIAGE, PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, WASHINGTON - MORNING

In a four-door carriage, top down, Seward sits opposite

Lincoln. Hay, next to Seward, organizes papers in a portfolio

on his lap.

Lincoln smiles.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, THE WHITE HOUSE - MORNING

Lincoln is at his desk, Hay feeding him documents to read and

sign. Seward warms himself by the fireplace, holding a

brandy.

I know, but that's - They don't need to worry

There's a knock at the office door.

But we can't, um, buy the (to Hay:)

vote for the amendment. It's Might as well let `em in.

too important.

Hay opens the door to the outer office, admitting the sound

of a sizable crowd. JOHN NICOLAY, 33, Lincoln's rather severe

German-born senior secretary, ushers in MR. JOLLY, mid-40s,

mud-spattered coat, hat in hands, followed by MRS. JOLLY,

similarly road-worn, holding a suitcase. Lincoln stands.

Lincoln shakes Mr. Jolly's hand. Mrs. Jolly curtseys.

Seward nods slightly as he lights a Cuban cigar.

Lincoln looks at the Jollys. They are worried and a little

awed.

Lincoln smiles. The Jollys don't get it. Mr. Jolly looks back

at Seward, who gestures for him to speak, then exhales a

plume of smoke.

Mrs. Jolly opens the suitcase and begins to dig frantically

for the letter.

Seward exhales more smoke.

Mr. Jolly starts coughing, while Mrs. Jolly tries to fan away

the cigar smoke with the Quincy Adams letter.

Mrs. Jolly is puzzled, and looks to Mr. Jolly. Then:

Mr. Jolly nods. Seward glances at Lincoln, then turns back to

Mr. Jolly's surprised: the answer's so obvious.

Seward takes the letter from Mrs. Jolly and hands it to

Lincoln.

Lincoln stands.

The Jollys nod, skeptical now.

Nicolay escorts them out. Before he closes the door:

Nicolay nods and steps into the anteroom, where dozens more

petitioners are waiting to speak with Lincoln. Hay confers

with the doorman. Seward closes the door behind them.

Lincoln kneels at the fireplace, stoking the fire. He puts

more wood in, then stands. Seward watches him, then:

There is a sharp knock on the closed door, followed by two

long ones.

Lincoln opens the door. Tad enters, cross.

Nicolay enters. Lincoln turns to him.

INT. THE LIBRARY, BLAIR HOUSE, WASHINGTON - EVENING

Lincoln's perched on the edge of an ottoman.

The room is baronial. PRESTON BLAIR, patriarch of his wealthy

and powerful family, 72 years old, sits facing his son,

MONTGOMERY BLAIR, 50, whip-thin. A fire blazes in a massive

fireplace behind Monty. Preston's handsome, elegant daughter,

ELIZABETH BLAIR LEE, 45, sits across from Monty, next to Tad,

who's wearing a Union infantryman's uniform, a real musket by

his side.

He was pushed out - I wasn't pushed.

He was pushed out to placate (to Tad:)

the goddamn radical I agreed to resign.

abolishonists!

Two black servants who have entered begin to pour and serve

tea.

The Blairs look at Lincoln, waiting for an answer.

EXT. OUTSIDE BLAIR HOUSE - NIGHT

A light snow's beginning to fall. A lacquered coach stands

outside the house, the Blair crest in gold on its doors.

Elizabeth Blair Lee, a blanket in her arms, comes out of the

house, talking to LEO, an elderly black servant, formerly a

slave belonging to the Blairs. They're followed by an elderly

black woman in a housekeeper's uniform.

Elizabeth goes to the carriage, where Preston awaits. She

passes the blanket through the carriage window and tucks it

around her father.

Oh! Thank you. (fussing with the

As Leo climbs into the carriage, Elizabeth kisses her hand,

then slaps the kiss on her father's cheek.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - MORNING

The cabinet has assembled. Lincoln heads the table, Seward at

his left and EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War, 51, barrel-

shaped, long bearded, bespectacled, at his right. Next to him

are Secretary of the Navy GIDEON WELLES, 63, luxurious white

hair (it's a wig) and a flowing snowy beard; Postmaster

General WILLIAM DENNISON, 50; Secretary of the Interior JOHN

USHER, 49; Secretary of the Treasury WILLIAM FESSENDEN, 59;

and Attorney General JAMES SPEED, 53.

Nicolay and Hay are in chairs behind Lincoln, taking notes.

Stanton clears his throat. He's noticed the singed edge.

Welles stands.

Welles gestures on the map to the positions of many ships.

Stanton indicates the lines tracing artillery trajectories.

These converge particularly heavily on Fort Fisher.

There's a moment of shocked silence.

The rest of the cabinet applauds, foot stomping, table

slapping. Only John Usher doesn't join in.

This gets a laugh.

He looks around the table. Everyone's listening.

A moment's silence, broken by a sharp laugh from Seward.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - EARLY AFTERNOON

Nicolay opens the door to the crowded outer office to admit

perpetually worried JAMES ASHLEY, 42, (R, OH). Tad eyes him

from a chair by the window.

Lincoln enters the room with Seward.

Lincoln shakes his hand and warmly claps the discombobulated

but flattered representative on the shoulder.

Excuse me. What? - immediately, and - You are

Lincoln moves in, standing very close to Ashley.

Ashley is agog.

INT. THADDEUS STEVENS'S OFFICE IN THE CAPITOL - EVENING

The room's redolent of politics, ideology (a bust of

Robespierre, a print of Tom Paine), long occupancy and hard

work. On the wall opposite a massive desk hangs a faded

banner: "RE-ELECT THADDEUS STEVENS, REPUBLICAN TICKET, 9TH

CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT, LANCASTER PENNSYLVANIA". At the desk

sits THADDEUS STEVENS (R, PA), 73, bald under a horrible red

wig, a gaunt, powerful face resembling Lincoln's, though

beardless and bitter.

In the office are Ashley, Speaker of the House SCHUYLER

COLFAX (R, IN), formidable Senator BLUFF WADE (R, MA), who's

never smiled, and ASA VINTNER LITTON (R, MD).

This confuses the room. Stevens turns to Vintner Litton.

Stevens limps to the door, opens it, and turns.

Stevens leaves, shutting the door. They watch him go, Ashley

excited, Litton unmoved, insulted, skeptical.

INT. PRIVATE DINING ROOM, OLD TAVERN IN WASHINGTON DC - NIGHT

In a cramped private alcove, a low, sagging timber ceiling,

sooty walls, sawdusted floor, ancient curtain closing it off,

Seward sits at a small table with ROBERT LATHAM, an Albany NY

political operative, RICHARD SCHELL, a Wall Street

speculator, and W.N. BILBO, a Tennessee lawyer and lobbyist.

A chandelier with candles drips wax on them.

On the table, a leather folio lies open: prospectuses for

jobs in the administration. Latham and Schell study these.

Bilbo is studying Seward.

A WAITRESS brings in a platter of roasted crabs, which she

slams down on the table, and leaves.

Bilbo takes a mallet to a crab, smashing it!

INT. FLOOR OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES - DAY

A gavel slams down on a sounding block in an attempt to

silence the raucous tumult in the large chamber. It subsides

enough for Colfax to be heard from his chair atop the central

TITLE: THE HOUSE DEBATE BEGINS

Floor and balcony are full, although the desks of

representatives from seceded states are bare and unoccupied.

On the Democratic side, 81 members applaud FERNANDO WOOD (D,

NY) as he takes the podium. The Democratic leadership,

including GEORGE YEAMAN (KY), has gathered around House

minority leader GEORGE PENDLETON(OH). On the Republican side

of the aisle, enraged booing from the 102 Republicans,

including HIRAM PRICE (IA), GEORGE JULIAN (IN), Vintner

Litton and Ashley, all gathered around Stevens's desk.

If Lincoln really were a ruling by fiat and martial

tyrant, Mr. Wood, he'd'a had law affixed his name to his

your empty head impaled on a heinous and illicit

pike, and the country better Emancipation Proclamation,

for it! promising it would hasten the

Murmuring from the floor and the balcony, in the front row of

which Mary and Elizabeth Keckley sit. Mary turns her gaze

from the floor to watch Latham and Schell, a few seats away,

scrutinize the floor, whispering, Latham taking notes. Schell

holds the leather prospectus folio in his lap. Bilbo sits

behind them.

They study the other NY Democrats - CHARLES HANSON, NELSON

MERRICK, HENRY LANFORD, HOMER BENSON, GILES STUART - who

comprise a cluster of glum uncomfortable passivity on that

side of the aisle.

He claimed, as tyrants do, (whispering to Schell:)

that the war's emergencies The New York delegation's

permitted him to turn our looking decidedly uninspired.

army into the unwilling

instrument of his monarchical

Wood points at Stevens, granite-faced. Stevens's eyes burn

back at Wood.

This prompts shouts and boos from the Republicans.

Schell examines the Pennsylvania Democrats: an openly

appalled ARCHIBALD MORAN, AMBROSE BAILER, and, chewing his

thumb, a painful fake grin pinned to his face, ALEXANDER

COFFROTH. Schell leans in to Latham.

- and "liberated" the Over in Pennsylvania - who's

hundreds of thousands of the sweaty man eating his

hopelessly indolent Negro thumb?

refugees, bred by nature for

servility, to settle in ROBERT LATHAM

squalor in our Northern Unknown to me. Seems jumpy.

cities!

Cheering and booing.

In the Connecticut delegation, JOHN ELLIS winds his pocket

watch, looking contemptuously at Wood. Schell makes a note.

But all that was not enough Jesus, when's this son-of-

for this dictator, who now liberty sonofabitch gonna sit

seeks to insinuate his down?

miscegenist pollution into

the Constitution itself! RICHARD SCHELL

Wild cheering and booing.

Every member of the House What's more interesting is

loyal to the Democratic Party how dismal and disgruntled

and the constituents it Mr. Yeaman appears. He should

serves shall oppose- be cheering right now, but...

Thaddeus Stevens calls out from his desk.

Wild cheering, applause from the Republicans.

The Democrats cheer. Mary watches with concern. Mrs. Keckley

is angry and uncomfortable.

An avalanche of boos and cheers as Democrats surge towards

Wood, Republicans towards Stevens. Ashley rushes to Colfax,

INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR OF THE WHITE HOUSE - MORNING

The corridor as usual is lined with petitioners. They've

lined up along both sides of the wall and are hooting,

laughing, clapping and cheering, egging on Tad as, with

furious concentration, he drives a cart pulled at

considerable speed by a large and seriously annoyed goat down

the hall. White House doorkeeper and unofficial child-minder

TOM PENDEL follows, admonishing the petitioners as he goes.

ROBERT LINCOLN, 21, enters from the stairs carrying several

pieces of large and heavy luggage.

Tad sees him, jumps out of the goat cart, runs up to and

tackles Robert, causing him to drop his luggage. They embrace

as Pendel captures the goat and leads it away.

Robert disentangles himself from Tad and hands him a

suitcase.

As Robert hoists the rest of the luggage himself, Tad

chatters and A PETITIONER comes forward. He grabs the trunk

as Robert's lifting it.

She's asleep, probably, they You need help, sir? I can...

went to see Avonia Jones last

night in a play about ROBERT

Israelites. Daddy's meeting No, sir, I don't. No.

with a famous scientist now

and he's nervous because of PETITIONER

how smart the man is and the Could you bring your pa this

man is angry about, `cause letter I writ about my

there's a new book that Sam insolvency proceedings?

Beckwith says is about

finches, and finches' beaks, ROBERT

about how they change, it Let it go please, thank you.

takes years and years and You deliver your own

years but - goddamned petition, thank

Robert wrestles the trunk out of the man's grasp just as Mary

enters the hall and sees him.

She instantly eyes Robert's amount of luggage with suspicion.

You're only staying a few - but what's made everyone

days. Why'd you pack all of really cross with the man,

that? the man who wrote the finch

Well, I don't know how long was going to say -

Tad drops the suitcase and runs to the office. Mary strokes

Robert's face, looking concerned.

She stops him with an alarmed look.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - MORNING

Preston Blair, still in his traveling cloak, and Lincoln

stand near the fireplace facing one another.

Both men look into the fire. Preston moves closer.

No, this is not horsetrading, - to support our push for

this is life and - the amendment when it reaches

There's a knock on the door.

Robert enters. Nicolay stands behind him, apologetic.

He shakes hands with his son, stiffly.

I'm talking to Preston Blair, You're looking fit, Robert.

we - Harvard agrees with you. Fit

Mr. Blair.

He turns to Preston. Robert, stung, hesitates, then leaves

the room, Nicolay shutting the door behind him.

Talk peace with these men. Preston, I understand...

EXT. ON THE MALL - AFTERNOON

JACOB GRAYLOR (D, PA) and Bilbo walk outside the Capitol.

Graylor looks over the prospectuses.

Graylor selects one and hands it to Bilbo.

INT. A BEDROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - NIGHT

A small room, two beds, in disarray: newspapers, overflowing

ashtrays, whiskey bottles empty on the floor. Latham and

Schell stand at a table strewn with the remnants of a poker

game. Bilbo lies on one of the beds. All three are in their

shirtsleeves. Seward is at the table.

Seward nods, less assertively than Latham would like.

INT. THE OLD TAVERN, WASHINGTON - NIGHT

Bilbo is drinking schooners of beer with EDWIN LECLERK (D,

OH) and CLAY HAWKINS (D, OH). Hawkins listens as Bilbo gives

his pitch. LeClerk looks at the prospectuses.

LeClerk throws his beer in Bilbo's face, soaking Bilbo and

the prospectuses. Hawkins looks shocked. LeClerk storms out.

INT. THE ROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - NIGHT

EXT. A WORKING CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD IN WASHINGTON - DAY

Schell stands at the door of a small, grubby row house. He

presents the folio, warped from its beer bath, to WILLIAM

HUTTON(D, IN), eyes red from crying, dressed in mourning

black.

Hutton slams the door in Schell's face. A funeral wreath that

adorns the door falls to the ground. A daguerreotype attached

to the wreath depicts a young officer, Hutton's brother

Frederick.

INT. THE ROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - NIGHT

Schell hands Latham a stack of folded prospectuses, each with

a name scrawled on it.

EXT. IN FRONT OF THE CAPITOL - TWILIGHT

Representatives Merrick, Lanford, Benson, Stuart and Hanson,

the New York lame ducks, descend the stairs, discussing the

opening of the amendment debate, to which they've just been

listening.

Latham smoothly holds Hanson back from the group, extending a

hand, the still pristine portfolio under his arm. He smiles

as the other NY lame ducks proceed down the stairs, unaware,

then nods his head back up toward the Capitol steps, where

Bilbo and Schell wait. Latham opens the folio as he talks to

Hanson.

INT. THE ROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - NIGHT

INT. THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT - DAY

In the grand lobby there are Federal bank windows. Schell is

in line at one of these behind Giles Stuart, who completes a

transaction and leaves, counting money. Bilbo, barrelling the

other way, intentionally slams into Stuart, causing him to

drop his money. Bilbo and Schell both kneel to help.

Schell places the open folio in Stuart's hands. As the men

pile his recovered money into the folio, Stuart's puzzled,

then intrigued. Schell gives him a meaningful look.

CLOSE ON A SMALL WOODEN FILE BOX

A folded prospectus, now with the name "Stuart" scrawled on

it, is added to a growing file.

INT. THE US PATENT OFFICE, WASHINGTON - DAY

Visitors file past cabinets containing animal and plant

specimens and inventions; the line circles around a large

case in which an amputated leg capped with a brass plate is

displayed. A sign identifies it: LEFT LEG OF GENERAL DANIEL

SICKLES, AT GETTYSBURG, JULY 5, 1863.

Latham looks through the case at Schell, who's next to Nelson

Merrick, who nods, solemnly staring at the leg. Schell

proffers Merrick the folio. Merrick flips through the folio.

INT. A WORKINGMENS' LUNCHROOM, WASHINGTON - DAY

A hall packed with working men, soaped-up windows. A GYPSY

FIDDLER saws away. Homer Benson, incongruous in a suit,

slurps. As he lifts his spoon to his mouth, the folio is

placed in front of him. He looks over, puzzled, as Schell

smiles and extends a hand.

Benson takes the folio. Schell slides his chair closer.

INT. THE ROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - NIGHT

Another prospectus joins the pile: "Benson"

Bilbo retrieves a paper from the floor and hands it to

Seward.

EXT. A WOODS ALONG THE POTOMAC RIVER - MORNING

Bilbo walks with Clay Hawkins, who peruses the folio. Bilbo

has a small covered wicker basket slung over his shoulder.

Hawkins follows, happy and sick with fear.

Bilbo retrieves a snare; a small bird is trapped by the foot.

Bilbo stuffs the bird in the basket.

Bilbo eyes Hawkins, who anxiously eyes the folio.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

Seward hands the last prospectus to Nicolay, who unfolds it,

places it on top of the other prospectuses, and records

details about Hawkins's appointment in a notebook. Seward

smokes a cigar, Nicolay a pipe. Lincoln sits, feet up,

examining a newspaper.

Lincoln stands.

Nicolay helps Lincoln trade his shawl for his overcoat in

preparation to meet the public.

Lincoln is silent. A horrifying reality dawns for Seward:

EXT. IN AN OPEN FIELD NEAR PETERSBURG, VIRGINIA - EVENING

THREE UNION CAVALRY OFFICERS consult with THREE CONFEDERATE

CAVALRY OFFICERS, all mounted. The officers exchange

documents and salutes.

TITLE: NO MAN'S LAND

The ranking Confederate trots to a buggy in which three

Confederate officials sit: Vice President ALEXANDER STEPHENS,

53, short; JOHN A. CAMPBELL, Assistant Secretary of War, 54;

and Senator R.M.T. HUNTER, 56. They're well-dressed for

winter, Stephens especially heavily bundled.

Stephens, Campbell and the indignant Hunter leave the buggy

and are escorted by Confederate officers to the waiting

company of Union cavalry and infantry.

A Union Army ambulance, a large American flag painted on one

side, driven by TWO BLACK SOLDIERS, stands near broken wagons

and a derelict cannon. ANOTHER BLACK SOLDIER stands at

attention by the ambulance's rear door.

The soldier, staring coldly at these men, gestures brusquely

to the ambulance. The Confederate peace commissioners

hesitate; Hunter stares in horror at the black soldiers. Then

Stephens pushes past Hunter. He nods to the soldier.

He boards the ambulance. His fellow delegates follow in his

wake, Hunter glaring with defiant hatred at the soldiers

before climbing in.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

Seward stands, stunned. Lincoln sits at the cabinet table.

Nicolay is gone.

We'll hear `em out.

Oh, splendid! And next the

Democrats will invite `em up to

hearings on the Hill, and the

newspapers - well, the newspapers -

the newspapers will ask "why risk

enraging the Confederacy over the

issue of slavery when they're here

to make peace?" We'll lose every

Democrat we've got, more than

likely conservative Republicans

will join `em, and all our work,

all our preparing the ground for

the vote, laid waste, for naught.

The Blairs have promised support

for the amendment if we listen to

these people -

Oh, the Blairs promise, do they?

You think they'll keep their

promise once we have heard these

delegates and refused them? Which

we will have to do, since their

proposal most certainly will be

predicated on keeping their slaves!

What hope for any Democratic votes,

Willum, if word gets out that I've

refused a chance to end the war?

You think word won't get out? In

Washington?

It's either the amendment or this

Confederate peace, you cannot have

both.

"If you can look into the seeds of

time, And say which grain will grow

and which will not, Speak then to

me..."

Oh, disaster. This is a disaster!

Lincoln stands.

INT. INSIDE THE AMBULANCE WAGON - DAY

The ambulance has come to a stop. The rear door opens and the

soldiers immediately hop out. The commissioners squint,

blinded, into the dazzling sunlight, at the River Queen,

Grant's side-wheel steamer, docked on the banks of the James

River.

TITLE: US ARMY HEADQUARTERS

INT. LINCOLN'S BEDROOM, SECOND FLOOR OF THE WHITE HOUSE -

Tad, in fancy military uniform, sits on the bed, Gardener's

box of glass negatives open beside him. He holds up a plate

to a lamp:

An old black man with a thick beard and hair, shirtless.

Tad looks at another plate:

A young black woman, headscarf, huge ugly scar across her

cheek and down her neck.

He studies these with solemn concentration.

Lincoln is being dressed in formal wear by his valet, WILLIAM

SLADE, a light-skinned black man in his 40s. Robert, already

in his morning suit, is standing by the door.

Slade hands Lincoln his formal gloves.

Be useful and stop war will be over in a month,

distracting him. and you know it will!

He accepts the gloves. Slade laughs a little, Robert scowls.

Tad holds another glass negative up to the light.

There's a knock on the door and Mrs. Keckley enters.

Were you - (shakes his head)

Lincoln starts towards the door just as John Hay enters,

dressed in the uniform of a Brevet Colonel.

Robert shoots an angry, envious glance at Hay's uniform as

Lincoln, Slade, Mrs. Keckley and Hay leave. Robert calls to

Robert storms out.

INT. THE PRINCE OF WALES BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Lincoln enters a dark room, its heavy drapes closed against

the dim afternoon light. There are two beds. One is stripped

bare. The other is canopied with a thick black veil.

Mary, dressed in a deep purple gown with black flowers and

beading, perfectly pitched between mourning and emergence, is

seated at the head of the canopied bed. On a nightstand next

to the bed there's a toy locomotive engine, a tattered book

of B&O railroad schedules.

Mary holds a framed photograph: an image of WILLIE, 12,

handsome, bright-eyed, confident.

Lincoln crosses to the window.

He bends and kisses her hand.

Mary stares up at him, her face heavy and swollen with grief.

INT. THE EAST ROOM, WHITE HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Mary, radiant, her charm turned to its brightest candlepower,

is greeting the Blairs, who are part of a long receiving

line. The Blairs proceed from Mary to Lincoln.

TITLE: GRAND RECEPTION

The enormous room is splendid, decked with garlands of

flowers, tall candelabra burning, flags from Army divisions.

An orchestra plays.

Lincoln and Tad stand together. Slade is near Lincoln. Mary's

a distance away from Lincoln, to his right.

Robert takes his place next to his mother, as conspicuous as

he'd feared he'd be in his civilian clothes.

A sea of people surround the President and his family.

Nicolay, Hay and several clerks channel the crowd waiting to

greet the Lincolns into the line: wealthy people, many more

middle-class people, some working people and farmers, and

many officers and soldiers.

Tad watches his father shake hands. Lincoln is in his

element. He stands close to each person, touches each one

gently, stoops to be nearer them; he puts everyone at ease.

He's bothered only by the white kid gloves he's wearing. He

tugs at the right-hand glove.

Lincoln takes off the right-hand glove - his hand-shaking

hand - but keeps the other glove on.

Approaching Mary on the line, Stevens, Ashley, Senators Bluff

Wade and CHARLES SUMNER, all in formal wear except Stevens.

Cutting him off, she pretends not to recognize Ashley.

But she ignores him and greets Stevens.

Stevens bows to her.

Mrs. Lincoln.

Madame President if you please!

Oh, don't convene another

subcommittee to investigate me,

sir! I'm teasing! Smile, Senator

Wade.

I believe I am smiling, Mrs.

Lincoln.

I'll take your word for that, sir!

As long as your household accounts

are in order, Madame, we'll have no

need to investigate them.

You have always taken such a

lively, even prosecutorial interest

in my household accounts.

Your household accounts have always

been so interesting.

Yes, thank you, it's true, the

miracles I have wrought out of

fertilizer bills and cutlery

invoices. But I had to! Four years

ago, when the President and I

arrived, this was pure pigsty.

Tobacco stains in the turkey

carpets. Mushrooms, green as the

moon, sprouting from ceilings! And

a pauper's pittance allotted for

improvements. As if your committee

joined with all of Washington

awaiting, in what you anticipated

would be our comfort in squalor,

further proof that my husband and I

were prairie primitives, unsuited

to the position to which an error

of the people, a flaw in the

democratic process, had elevated

us.

Lincoln, suddenly without anyone in line to receive, looks to

see the backlog forming behind the radicals. He notes the

exchange, but says nothing. Robert sees him looking.

Robert leans in to her.

She gives him a slight, lethal smile. He holds the look; his

poker-face yields to a barely perceptible smile, amused and

perhaps a little admiring.

INT. THE WHITE HOUSE KITCHEN - EVENING

The kitchen's piled with unwashed cookware, eggshells, flour

bins, muffin and pastry molds, spoons and knives, the

detritus of the preparations for the finger food served at

the reception, which has now transitioned into a dance and is

still underway upstairs. Music, the tramp of dancing feet and

rhythmic clapping is audible.

A BLACK FOOTMAN carrying a huge tray laden with dishes and

cups comes down the stairs. He hastily beats a retreat when

he sees Lincoln and Thaddeus Stevens quietly talking amid the

mess.

Since we have the floor next in the

debate, I thought I'd suggest you

might...temper your contributions

so as not to frighten our

conservative friends?

Ashley insists you're ensuring

approval by dispensing patronage to

otherwise undeserving Democrats.

I can't ensure a single damn thing

if you scare the whole House with

talk of land appropriations and

revolutionary tribunals and

punitive thisses and thats -

When the war ends, I intend to push

for full equality, the Negro vote

and much more. Congress shall

mandate the seizure of every foot

of rebel land and every dollar of

their property. We'll use their

confiscated wealth to establish

hundreds of thousands of free Negro

farmers, and at their side soldiers

armed to occupy and transform the

heritage of traitors. We'll build

up a land down there of free men

and free women and free children

and freedom.

The nation needs to know that we

have such plans.

That's the untempered version of

reconstruction. It's not... It's

not exactly what I intend, but we

shall oppose one another in the

course of time. Now we're working

together, and I'm asking you -

For patience, I expect.

When the people disagree, bringing

them together requires going slow

till they're ready to make up -

Stevens glares at him, then smiles.

Lincoln reaches over to Stevens and gives his shoulder a

vigorous shake. Stevens endures this.

INT. MARY'S BOUDOIR, THE WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT

Spectacles on, Lincoln unlaces Mary's corset.

He's unlaced enough; she unhooks the front and steps out of

her corset and petticoats, turns to him in her plain thin

chemise and drawers.

There's a knock on the door. Mary turns to it, furious:

Lincoln opens the door. Nicolay's standing there.

Lincoln leaves with Nicolay. Mary watches, frozen, unable to

let him go, knowing she can't stop him.

INT. THE TELEGRAPH OFFICE, WAR DEPARTMENT - LATE NIGHT

The telegraph office looks improvised, even after four years.

Formerly the War Department library, it's lined with

bookcases stuffed with bundled dispatches. Telegraph cables

stretch across the ceiling to the cipher-operators' desks.

Stanton, perpetually exhausted and impatient, storms down the

stairs with Welles and the chief telegraph operator, MAJOR

THOMAS ECKERT, 40, in his wake.

Fort Fisher is a mountain of It's the largest fort they

a building, Edwin. Twenty-two have, sir. They've been

big seacoast guns on each reinforcing it for the last

rampart - two years -

They reach the desks for the key operators. Among these,

SAMUEL BECKWITH, 25, and the key manager, DAVID HOMER BATES,

22, sit at their silent keys, waiting to receive news.

Stanton scribbles furiously on Beckwith's small notepad.

The commander is an old goat. I want to hear that Fort

They said -

Stanton thrusts the cable at Beckwith, who taps it out

immediately.

Stanton turns to a table where the large map of Wilmington

from the Cabinet meeting is laid out, heavily scribbled-on.

GUSTAVUS FOX, assistant Secretary of the Navy, and CHARLES

BENJAMIN, Stanton's clerk, are checking the marks on the map

against a stack of dispatches.

Everyone's startled, and confused. They all turn to Lincoln,

who sits in Major Eckert's chair, wrapped in his shawl.

Stanton stalks out, shouting down the corridor as he goes:

Lincoln pays no attention to Stanton's fulminations and

continues with his story.

Everyone laughs.

Everyone laughs.

Beckwith's and Bates's keys starts clicking. They transcribe

furiously.

There's a general rush to the operators' desks. Lincoln walks

quickly over, and is joined there by Stanton, who arrives

just as the first dispatch has been completed and is being

decoded. Stanton and Lincoln hold hands, as they've done many

times, waiting for news of the battle.

Bates hands the decoded cable to Benjamin, who reads it

quickly, then announces to the room:

Eckert shakes his head as Beckwith hands him the next

telegram.

A beat as this sinks in. Then:

Eckert looks up at Stanton and Lincoln, stricken.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER - DAY

One representative's reading a paper with the headline: THE

FALLEN AT WILMINGTON, followed by hundreds of names.

Pendleton and Wood are conferring.

He looks over at Stevens, who's at his desk consulting with

Ashley and Julian.

Colfax gavels the chamber to order, as George Yeaman

approaches the podium.

The Democrats applaud as Yeaman takes his place at the podium

and surveys the chamber.

Cheers and boos.

Schell, Latham, and Bilbo are perched in their usual gallery

seats, taking notes.

He's momentarily silenced by cheers and boos throughout the

chamber.

Yeaman is stopped, baffled and dismayed by the explosion he's

provoked.

INT. AN EMPTY COMMITTEE ROOM, THE CAPITOL - DAY

Hawkins enters and stops when he sees Pendleton and Wood.

It's a trap. LeClerk follows, closing the door.

Hawkins looks at LeClerk, who guiltily avoids his glance.

Hawkins sinks.

EXT. A WOODS ALONG THE POTOMAC RIVER - MORNING

Bilbo and Clay Hawkins are again in the woods. Bilbo, with

his basket, clutches a pair of noisy snared partridges.

My neighbors in Nashville, Look, I'll find another job.

they found out I was loyal to

the Union, they came after me

with gelding knives!

Hawkins runs away from Bilbo. Bilbo chases him.

Any other job. IN THE BARGAIN -

Hawkins runs away, sobbing. Bilbo pursues.

Bilbo stops, winded.

EXT. IN A BACK ALLEY, SOMEWHERE IN WASHINGTON - AFTERNOON

Seward, smoking unhappily, strides toward his carriage, with

Schell, Latham and Bilbo in pursuit.

It's the goddamned rumors There are defections in the

regarding the Richmond ranks... Yes! The peace

delegation. offer!

Groundless. I told you that. And yet the rumors persist.

Seward has reached the carriage, Bilbo alongside him. Before

the Secretary of State can climb on board, Bilbo shuts the

carriage door. Seward is outraged.

EXT. A STREET IN GEORGETOWN - NIGHT

Bilbo is talking to HAROLD HOLLISTER (D, IN), who pulls out a

derringer. Bilbo bolts, dropping the folder. He stops, runs

back, and bends to retrieve the folio as Hollister fires the

gun over Bilbo's head.

EXT. IN A BACK ALLEY, SOMEWHERE IN WASHINGTON - AFTERNOON

Seward, now inside the carriage, slams the door.

Schell and Latham lean in to the carriage.

Schell steps up on the running board, intent.

EXT. THE JAMES RIVER DOCK AT CITY POINT, VIRGINIA - DAY

ULYSSES S. GRANT, 43, 5'7", beard, uniform worn and rumpled,

crosses the dock, followed by three aides.

They approach the gangway for the River Queen.

INT. THE RIVER QUEEN SALOON, CITY POINT, VIRGINIA - DAY

Grant and the commissioners stand in an expansive cabin at

the stern, patriotically decorated, large windows.

Grant hands the commissioners' peace proposal back to them.

He's scribbled notes all over the document.

Grant fixes Stephens with a look - bemused, a little

disappointed.

He lights a cigar.

EXT. THE JAMES RIVER DOCK AT CITY POINT, VIRGINIA - DAY

As a somber Grant disembarks with his aides from the River

Seward's voice takes over from Grant's.

"...from anyone in authority, "...from anyone in authority,

Mr. Lincoln..." Mr. Lincoln..."

INT. SEWARD MANSION, LAFAYETTE SQUARE, WASHINGTON - NIGHT

Seward's in a fancy robe and slippers, reading a telegram.

Lincoln is in his coat, shawl over his shoulders, holding his

hat.

Seward looks up at Lincoln, then down again at the telegram.

He stands and crosses to Lincoln.

Lincoln has closed his eyes.

Lincoln shakes his head "no."

INT. HALLWAY, THE WHITE HOUSE - LATE NIGHT

Lincoln, shawl still wrapped around him, walks the long empty

hall.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - LATE NIGHT

Lincoln sits before an open window. He's dishevelled, in

shirtsleeves an unbuttoned vest, next to an inkwell, papers

and books of law scattered about, and a lit candle in a

candlestick, guttering. Grant's telegraph is in one hand, and

in the other hand, his spectacles and, dangling from a chain,

his open pocket watch. His bare left foot keeps time with the

watch's loud ticking. He stares out into the cold night.

INT. JOHN HAY AND JOHN NICOLAY'S BEDROOM - EVEN LATER

The room is spare and neat. Nicolay and Hay are asleep in

their beds.

Lincoln is sitting at the foot of Hay's bed, spectacles on,

reading a petition, the others in his lap, pencil in hand.

Hay startles awake, then settles. He's used to this.

Nicolay stirs in the next bed.

Nicolay's asleep again.

He signs the pardon. Then he gives Hay's leg a few hard

thwacks and a squeeze. It hurts a little. Hay winces.

Putting the rest of the petitions on Hay's bed, he stands to

leave.

INT. HALLWAY, THE WHITE HOUSE - LATE NIGHT

As before, Lincoln continues his slow and solitary walk.

INT. THE TELEGRAPH ROOM, WAR DEPARTMENT - PRE-DAWN

Lincoln is seated at Eckert's desk, shawl wrapped around his

shoulders, glasses on; he stares down into his hat, held

between his knees. Homer Bates and Sam Beckwith are waiting

for him.

Lincoln draws a handwritten note from his hat and carefully

unfolds it.

Sam Beckwith transcribes Lincoln's words into code on a pad

with a pencil.

He stops for a moment. Beckwith waits, pencil poised.

Lincoln looks at the note, folds it, tucks it in a band

inside his hat.

Lincoln places the hat on the floor.

Homer doesn't get it; neither does Sam.

He looks at his scribbled note, then at Sam and Homer.

Beckwith writes as Lincoln dictates.

INT. HOUSE CHAMBER, THE CAPITOL - LATE MORNING

The chamber's noisy and packed. In the balcony's front row, a

wall of newspapermen, notebooks at the ready.

TITLE: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Ashley, Colfax, and Stevens approach Stevens's desk. Colfax

nods towards the journalists in the balcony:

Stevens sees Mary, with Mrs. Keckley, claiming front seats

from two journalists.

INT. HOUSE CHAMBER, THE CAPITOL - LATER

Stevens, at the podium, is being challenged by Fernando Wood,

standing at his desk.

All eyes are on Stevens, the chamber quiet except for a

scratching sound: the journalists have begun scribbling.

Stevens looks up at the balcony, at the waiting journalists,

and Mary, who raises her eyebrows, then at Ashley and Litton

at their desks. Seward watches from the balcony.

Stevens returns to Wood.

I don't hold with equality in (stands:)

all things, only with After the decades of fervent

equality before the law and advocacy on behalf of the

nothing more. colored race -

Pendleton persists, through cheers and catcalls.

You have long insisted, have I don't hold with equality in

you not, that the dusk- all things only with equality

colored race is no different before the law and nothing

from the white one. more.

Among the amendment's supporters, including Vintner Litton, a

GROUP OF WOMEN SUFFRAGISTS in the balcony, and Elizabeth

Keckley, there's visible, audible shock and dismay at

Stevens's capitulation. Mary's surprised by Stevens, and

impressed.

Mary's startled. Mrs. Keckley leaves the balcony, pushing

past journalists. On the floor:

General uproar.

Ashley sits, nearly weeping with relief, while the chamber

explodes: laughter, applause, boos.

The journalists pack up their notebooks; this is fun, but not

newsworthy, and only a few bother to record it.

Stevens limps out through the aisle to wild Republican

applause. He looks up to the balcony; Mary is looking down

approvingly. He looks down before she can see him smile.

INT. A CORRIDOR OUTSIDE THE HOUSE CHAMBER - LATER

Stevens sits on a bench, alone, thinking, troubled. Asa

Vintner Litton approaches him.

Stevens nods.

Stevens nods, then, quietly:

EXT. THE STREETS OF WASHINGTON - MORNING

Lincoln and Robert are in the buggy driven by the old

soldier; a young bodyguard soldier sits beside the driver,

his rifle uselessly tucked under his legs. Lincoln is on one

side reading over a stack of documents. Robert's on the other

side of the buggy, staring sullenly at his feet.

The buggy stops outside an army hospital. Lincoln packs up

his papers.

Stepping out of the buggy, he hands his folio to the

bodyguard and enters the army hospital.

INT. ARMY HOSPITAL - MORNING

He's met in the antechamber by an ARMY SURGEON.

They move into the main ward, Lincoln removing his hat.

He walks from bed to bed, shaking hands with each patient.

Most are amputees.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE ARMY HOSPITAL - MORNING

Robert, brooding, waits in the buggy.

Hearing a creaking, rumbling sound, Robert turns to see TWO

BLACK ORDERLIES in grey uniforms wrangling a large top-heavy

wheelbarrow, covered with filthy canvas. One orderly pushes

while the other keeps the barrow from tipping over.

Robert notices, in the barrow's wake, a trail of blood. He

gets out of the buggy and follows as the orderlies turn a

corner of the building.

Behind the building, where the ground is bare, pitted with

puddles of water, Robert watches as the orderlies reach the

edge of a shallow pit. One orderly pulls the canvas back,

revealing severed legs, arms, hands, rotten, burnt, shattered

by bullet or bomb.

Robert watches as they toss the remains into the pit.

Quicklime is shoveled atop the limbs.

Robert walks away, unsteady.

Around the corner, he fumbles through his pockets for rolling

paper and tobacco. He locates these and tries to focus on

rolling a cigarette, his hands shaking. He tries harder to

control his hands, his feelings, but he can't. He has a panic

attack, crying, hiccupy shallow breathing, face flushed.

Frustrated, he throws down the cigarette and tries to hold

back tears.

Robert looks up, mortified, to see Lincoln watching him with

concern. He wipes his eyes, his mouth.

Lincoln slaps Robert in the face. It shocks them both.

Lincoln tries to embrace Robert, but Robert shoulders past

him and walks back toward the front of he building. He turns.

He hurries away.

INT. MARY'S BOUDOIR, SECOND FLOOR OF THE WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT

Outside, driving rain and wind. Lincoln sits by the window,

in his coat, vest and tie, hair combed neatly.

Mary sits at her vanity in a beautiful evening dress, pale

with rage.

Lincoln rises from the window seat, angry.

That's right. When you I was in the room with

refused so much as to comfort Willie, I was holding him in

Tad - my arms as he died!

- the child who was not only How dare you!

sick, dangerously sick, but

beside himself with grief?

Oh but your grief, your How dare you throw that at

grief, your inexhaustible me?!

grief!

And his mother won't let him I couldn't let Tad in! I

near her, `cause she's couldn't risk him seeing how

screaming from morning to angry I was!

night pacing the corridors,

howling at shadows and

furniture and ghosts! I ought

to have done it, I ought have

done for Tad's sake, for

everybody's goddamned sake, I

should have clapped you in

the madhouse!

Silence. Then:

She opens her mouth to make an angry reply, then stops, and

watches as he leaves the room.

INT. ODD FELLOWS' HALL, WASHINGTON - NIGHT

Onstage, Gounod's Faust, Act Three, scene eight, the garden

outside Marguerite's cottage, a gorgeously romantic night.

MARGUERITE and FAUST are alone singing. The Lincolns, in

their box, watch quietly. Elizabeth Keckley sits next to

Mary.

Mary turns to Lincoln. They speak in whispers. Mrs. Keckley

tries not to listen but she can't help hearing what they say.

EXT. THE PORTICO OF THE WHITE HOUSE - A SHORT WHILE LATER

The carriage has pulled up and Mary is entering the White

House. Lincoln helps Mrs. Keckley down from the carriage.

She hesitates before proceeding in. Then she faces Lincoln.

Lincoln looks at her, considering. Then:

INT. A BEDROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - LATE NIGHT

The room is far filthier and more cluttered than before.

Bilbo and Latham are playing cards. Schell is asleep in bed.

There's a quick knock on the door.

Seward enters, displeased, as they show their cards,

laughing.

Latham jovially collects his winnings. He stops short when

Lincoln steps into the room, cloak and stovepipe, very tall.

Schell startles awake as Bilbo puts down his cigar and wipes

his hand on his vest.

Lincoln sits at the card table.

Lincoln nods. He turns to Bilbo.

Bilbo, cigar back in mouth, laughs.

I understand he is. Silly name.

Let Governor Curtin know it'd

be much appreciated if he'd

invite the House of

Representatives to decide who

won. He's entitled to do

that. He'll agree to it.

Then advise Coffroth, if he

hopes to retain his seat,

that he'd better pay a visit

to Thaddeus Stevens.

INT. THADDEUS STEVENS'S OFFICE, THE CAPITOL - NIGHT

Stevens is at his desk, paperwork piled high. There's a knock

at the door.

A nervous man enters hesitantly: Alexander Coffroth.

Stevens glares at him with what looks like horror. Coffroth's

frightened smile transforms into a rictus of pain. Then:

Stevens waves him into a chair.

Coffroth doesn't know whether to answer. He shakes his head.

INT. A BEDROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - LATE NIGHT

Continue with Lincoln and his operatives around the card

table.

Schell, Latham and Bilbo exchange looks, then:

Lincoln looks up from his notepad, smiling.

INT. SEWARD'S OFFICE, STATE DEPARTMENT - DAY

Seward sits at his grand desk, looking on with an anxious

scowl. Lincoln sits on the edge of Seward's desk. Yeaman sits

in a chair facing him.

Lincoln moves from the desk to take the seat beside Yeaman,

no longer towering over him. He leans forward and rests a

hand on Yeaman's knee.

Lincoln leaves Yeaman, considering.

EXT. A WORKING CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD IN WASHINGTON - NIGHT

Lincoln stands in front of William Hutton's row house,

talking to Hutton. The funeral wreath still hangs on the door

behind them, displaying the marks of time passing: faded,

weatherbeaten, dusty.

The door opens slightly behind Hutton. His wife looks out.

Hutton exchanges a glance with her, and the door shuts again.

Hutton walks slowly back to his house.

Lincoln goes back to his buggy. Hutton pauses at his door to

watch Lincoln's buggy drive away.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Lincoln is seated at the head of the cabinet table along with

Seward. Ashley, Preston and Montgomery Blair. Hay and Nicolay

sit in their usual chairs.

- and we'll be discredited, We don't need a goddamned

the amendment itself will be abolition amendment! Leave

tainted. What if, what if the Constitution alone! State

these peace commissioners by state you can extirpate -

appear today? Or worse, on

the morning -

He points around the table at Ashley, Monty, Preston.

Lincoln rises, and keeps rising, till he seems eight feet

tall.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER - DAWN

The chamber is quiet and dark. Pages and clerks prepare the

desks, laying out pens and paper, filling inkwells.

TITLE: THE MORNING OF THE VOTE

A CLERK is draping red-white-and-blue bunting on the desks of

representatives from seceded states. These will of course

remain unoccupied during the vote.

The first Congressman to arrive, Thaddeus Stevens clumps in.

He goes to his desk and sits. He looks around the empty

chamber, ready and waiting.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER - MORNING, SEVERAL HOURS LATER

Thaddeus Stevens is at his desk. The House is in session, the

floor full of congressmen caucusing and arguing.

The balcony's packed. Mary and Keckley sit at the front,

Nicolay and Hay behind them. The Blairs are among other

officials, rich people, foreign dignitaries.

There's a sudden quiet, then murmuring. Ashley, Stevens and

everyone on the floor look up, Ellis, Hollister, Hutton and

Hawkins among these.

In the balcony, twenty WELL-TO-DO BLACK PEOPLE, mostly men,

are escorted by several Senators, including Sumner and Wade,

to a reserved section of the balcony. The black people glance

at their surroundings but are rigidly composed.

Asa Vintner Litton sees them enter. He looks about, at the

representatives caucusing, or staring up at the visitors.

Something powerful strikes him. In a voice coarse with

emotion, he calls up to the black visitors:

There's tense applause. Some of the black guests bow; most

aren't sure how to respond.

Yeaman watches this, deeply moved.

Bilbo catches Hawkins's eye and waves. Hawkins looks

anxiously around, blushing.

Everyone is seated, and the place is packed.

Schuyler Colfax is in his high seat atop the rostrum, the

SERGEANT-AT-ARMS to his right. Colfax gavels the House into

session. Ashley is at the podium.

Cheers, boos, applause.

General cheering for this, laughing.

Applause, boos. Pendleton, taking the podium, is handed

several letters by Wood. He holds them over his head. The

chamber's quiet.

The chamber explodes. Through the ensuing ruckus:

In the balcony, Hay and Nicolay exchange worried glances.

Ashley turns to Stevens: "DO SOMETHING!" as Pendleton's

Democrats begin to chant "POSTPONE THE VOTE!"

Mary, worried, looks from Mrs. Keckley to Preston Blair, who

is focused on the leader of the conservative Republican

representatives, AARON HADDAM (R, KY). Haddam looks up at

Preston, awaiting instructions.

Democrats and Republicans rush to the Speaker to support or

protest the motion.

In the balcony, Preston slowly stands, saddened and angry.

Preston nods at Haddam: "Go ahead." Haddam rises.

The debate swells again as, in the balcony, Schell scribbles

in a notebook while Latham whispers furiously in his ear.

Latham rips the page out before Schell's finished; Bilbo

snatches it from him.

Bilbo pushes his way out of the balcony. Nicolay, then Hay,

follow on his heels. Mary sees this; she's concerned.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CAPITOL - AFTERNOON

Hay and Nicolay emerge. They see Bilbo running, far ahead.

Hay immediately sprints after him and trips. Nicolay

continues running.

INT/EXT. WHITE HOUSE PORTICO, FOYER, STAIRS - AFTERNOON

Bilbo puffs his way across the portico, through the door, and

up the stairs. Hay gains on him. It's become a race!

In the second floor hallway, Bilbo gets winded, and Hay

dashes past him. Hay reaches the doors to Lincoln's office

and flings them open.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, THE WHITE HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Lincoln is at his desk, working, when Hay bursts in. Bilbo

appears in the doorway, beet-red and gasping for air.

Hay's too winded to speak. Bilbo holds out the note, limp

with sweat, and brings it to Lincoln. Lincoln reads it.

Tad runs into the room, excited by the commotion. He wraps

his arm around his father's neck, then tears wildly out of

the room.

As Nicolay heaves into the room in last place, wheezing

terribly, Lincoln deliberates for a moment, then writes a

note. He blots, folds and hands it to Hay, who immediately

reads it, Nicolay looking on.

Hay looks at Nicolay, who can't speak; he waves at Hay to

speak for him.

Nicolay continues gasping, trying to speak. He can't.

Hay gives Lincoln the note. Lincoln takes it, holding on to

Hay's hand; with his free hand, Lincoln passes the note to

Bilbo.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER AND BALCONY - AFTERNOON

Bilbo, pushing past the pages, runs in, holding the note,

Ashley snatches it, reading as he makes his way to the

podium. All eyes are on Ashley.

The chamber falls silent.

Applause, booing, furious discussion.

In the balcony, Mary looks to Mrs. Keckley.

Preston, in the balcony, hesitates. He looks at his daughter,

who gives him a questioning look: "Do you want this on your

head?"

Preston doesn't. He indicates to Haddam with a small shake of

his venerable head: "Drop it."

There's an angry response, but Wood and Pendleton sit,

thwarted.

The noise of the chamber and balcony reduce to a rumble.

Thaddeus Stevens sits silently, tired, concentrated: the

moment has come.

The chamber is completely silent for the first time.

The clerk records his vote.

Angry shouts from Ellis's fellow Democrats, forcing Colfax to

gavel for order.

JOSIAH BURTON rises to his feet. He is very, very tall and

thin.

Mary watches from the balcony, pleased, but anxious.

Shocked anger from the Democrats. Pendleton starts

calculating votes on a sheet of paper. Wood grabs it and

begins to calculate more rapidly.

In the balcony, Mary keeps track on her own list. She writes

carefully next to Roberts's name: "15 TO WIN"

Hollister glowers next to Hutton, who's silently praying.

Hutton looks up from his prayer.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, THE WHITE HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Lincoln watches Tad stacking books to make a fort for his

lead toy soldiers.

INT/EXT. ROTUNDA AND FRONT DOOR OF THE CAPITOL - AFTERNOON

A field telegraph has been set up near the steps, at the

front of the enormous crowd that's assembled before the

Capitol. Poles are held up in the crowd by soldiers along

which the telegraph wire is stretched.

A soldier stationed at the door of the Capitol relays the

vote to another soldier manning the cipher key:

The cipher operator instantly transmits.

INT. GRANT'S TELEGRAPH ROOM AT CITY POINT - AFTERNOON

OFFICERS are crowded in the small room, watching a SERGEANT

transcribe as his cipher key clicks.

The cipher key clicks again.

Grant observes this from the balcony above. Robert, in a

captain's uniform, stands near him. Like his mother, Robert

has a scorecard, and he's keeping track.

Grant turns his back on the proceedings to light a cigar.

He's concerned at how close the vote is. Behind him the count

Robert has been looking at Grant; he returns to his score

keeping.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER AND BALCONY - AFTERNOON

The Clerk continues.

Yeaman doesn't respond. The silence this causes lengthens,

till representatives begin to look to see what's happened.

Yeaman sits, staring ahead, not responding. Thaddeus Stevens,

sensing something's happening, looks in Yeaman's direction.

Yeaman, still staring ahead, mumbles something, but it's

inaudible.

Great surprise, loud cheers and angry shouts.

Yeaman looks ready to faint. To the consternation of the

Democrats, a mob of gleeful Republicans rushes across the

aisle that separates the two parties; they surround Yeaman,

shaking his hand, slapping him on the back. Colfax bangs the

gavel.

Pendleton is speechless. Litton turns to Ashley, both

astonished; Ashley turns to Stevens, who watches, sharp,

observant, giving nothing away.

Mary updates her tally: "8 TO WIN"

Yeaman collapses back into his seat. The room quiets.

Hawkins seems to have been startled out of a reverie. Sick

with fear, he looks up at the sound of his name. He can't

speak. Wood and Pendleton watch this, deeply alarmed. Hawkins

snaps out of it.

A huge reaction to this. LeClerk gapes at Hawkins.

LeClerk, seated next to Hawkins and transfixed by his

courage, turns dazedly to McPherson.

The noise gets wilder. Pendleton fixes LeClerk and Hawkins

with a murderous look.

Disgust briefly flashing across his face, McPherson crosses

out and changes LeClerk's vote to an abstention. The cheering

and booing degenerates to intense argument about what this

means for the vote count.

In the balcony, Bilbo looks at Hawkins, well-pleased.

Coffroth looks towards Stevens, who doesn't look at him.

Applause. Stevens still doesn't look at Coffroth, but,

tickled, he grins and nods.

INT. GRANT'S TELEGRAPH ROOM AT CITY POINT - AFTERNOON

Grant stands with Robert at the balcony rail, waiting.

On a nearby board, a large map has been tacked backwards; on

its reverse side, the count is being scrawled by an officer,

who marks off the votes in quintiles in columns marked YEA

and NAY.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER AND BALCONY - AFTERNOON

STRAUS rises.

Then, in a sequence of rapid cuts:

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, THE WHITE HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Tad is on Lincoln's lap. They're examining a book, the pages

of which feature illustrations comparing the varieties of

species of insects, zebras, finches.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER AND BALCONY - AFTERNOON

The room is quiet and tense.

Laughter in the chamber. The Clerk tallies the vote, then

passes the recorded vote to the Speaker. There's absolute

silence.

In the balcony, Mary checks her own tally, not quite

believing it.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, THE WHITE HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Lincoln stands, waiting. The only sound is the ticking of

the clock. And then the ticking is slowly drowned out as

bells begin to peal throughout the city. Lincoln raises the

window as Tad rushes to him. The bells are joined by a

cannonade. The sound of jubilation fills his office.

Lincoln turns from the window to Tad, who stares out eagerly,

seeking out the source of the noise. Lincoln puts his hand on

Tad's head. He looks down at his son, silent.

INT. THE HOUSE CHAMBER, THE CAPITOL - LATE AFTERNOON

Representatives throw papers in the air, embrace, weep,

shout, dance, climb on desks. In the balcony, Mary stands

slowly, beyond tears or joy; Mrs. Keckley stands with her,

smiling, crying. Preston Blair applauds vigorously. The black

visitors join the general exultation, overwhelmed, some

praying, others embracing and weeping.

Latham's, Schell's and Bilbo's seats are empty; they've gone.

Ashley, grinning from ear to ear, tears streaming down his

face, is hoisted up on shoulders and marched around the room,

as on the floor and in the balcony, people start singing "The

Battle Cry of Freedom."

Pendleton, with the face of someone who's seen his world

collapse into ruin, walks straight at Yeaman, who's listening

to the singing, deeply moved, his face full of wonder.

Pendleton turns, without a word, and leaves the House.

Yeaman laughs, and loudly joins in singing.

Stevens clumps over to the Clerk of the House, who is placing

his tallies and the official copy of the amendment bill in a

folio. He looks up.

The Clerk hands the bill to Stevens, who folds it and pockets

it.

EXT. A STREET, WASHINGTON - DUSK

Celebrating crowds move towards the Mall, singing, carrying

placards proclaiming the passage of the amendment.

Thaddeus Stevens is hobbling in the opposite direction,

making difficult headway against the crowd, pushed and

shoved, unrecognized; he shoves back, his ferocious scowl

utterly at odds with the prevailing festive mood.

He reaches a modest house, unlocks the door and steps inside.

INT. THADDEUS STEVENS'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Stevens is met at the door by LYDIA SMITH, a black woman in

her fifties. As she helps him off with his coat, he takes a

piece of paper from his pocket.

She takes it.

INT. THE BEDROOM IN THADDEUS STEVENS'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Stevens, in his nightgown, takes off his wig. He's bald.

He lies down in bed. Mrs. Smith is in bed already beside

him. She's holding the paper he gave her.

They kiss. He lies back. He grabs her hand.

Thaddeus Stevens grins, nods, thinking, eyes sparkling.

INT./EXT. THE DOCK AT FORTRESS MONROE, HAMPTON ROADS,

VIRGINIA - LATE AFTERNOON

Sailors cheer Lincoln's arrival. Lincoln walks across the

gangway. Seward greets him amidst the cheers.

INT. THE SALOON ON BOARD THE RIVER QUEEN, HAMPTON ROADS,

VIRGINIA - DAY

Lincoln, Seward and the commissioners are seated. Seward

looks concerned at Lincoln's fatigue.

Silence.

Hunter storms out of the cabin.

EXT. A CITY ON A SOUTHERN RIVER - NIGHT

Like a vision of apocalypse, a city on the banks of a broad

river is being consumed in a hellish fire, as artillery

shells rend the dark sky asunder, raining down destruction.

EXT. SIEGE LINES BEFORE PETERSBURG, VIRGINIA - MORNING

The morning is grey, and a dense fog covers a vast field.

Lincoln, his stovepipe hat atop his head, is mounted on a

horse on a rise at one end of the field. Behind him, several

UNION OFFICERS are also mounted. It's chilly; the breath of

the men and the horses is visible.

TITLE: OUTSIDE PETERSBURG, VIRGINIA

Lincoln flicks the reins of his horse, which starts down the

slope. The officers follow behind him. No one speaks.

Lincoln rides slowly, his focus on the ground before him.

Debris is scattered all around him, along with the bodies of

fallen soldiers.

He looks up and across the battlefield; a terrible battle has

concluded a couple of hours ago.

Looking down, as he rides, he sees soldiers killed by

artillery fire, whose bodies lie twisted, burned, headless,

limbless, torn in two, blown out of their clothing or charred

too badly to tell. He sees soldiers killed by rifle and

bayonet, whose corpses are intact.

At the beginning of his ride, all the dead and wounded are in

Union blue, the casualties of Confederate cannon fire, felled

as the Union army, about six hours earlier, began its final,

successful drive to break through Confederate lines.

As Lincoln and his escorts move across the battlefield, grey

and blue uniformed corpses and badly wounded men intermingle.

He reaches the other side of the field, passing a Confederate

flag to enter the now-ruined town of Petersburg.

EXT. THE THOMAS WALLACE HOUSE, GRANT'S TEMPORARY

HEADQUARTERS, ON MARKET STREET, PETERSBURG - MORNING

Grant, smoking his cigar, his uniform dusty and rumpled, is

sitting on the small porch. He stares piercingly at Lincoln,

in a rocker next to him, watching his troops pass by as they

move in to secure the conquered town. Lincoln closes his

eyes.

He has grown older, the skin around his eyes is cobwebbed

with fine creases, and his hair's thinner, softer, suffused

with grey. His brow has grown smoother.

EXT. THE MCLEAN HOUSE, APPOMATTOX COURT HOUSE, VIRGINIA -

OFFICERS OF THE CONFEDERATE AND UNION ARMY stand around in

the afternoon sun. Everyone's solemn, even stunned by what's

just happened. No one is speaking.

TITLE: APPOMATTOX COURTHOUSE, VIRGINIA

ROBERT E. LEE comes down the steps of the McLean house, as a

CONFEDERATE OFFICER brings his horse to him. His face is

blank. Lee mounts his waiting horse.

Lee should leave, having just surrendered to Grant inside;

but he's immobile. Some of the officers of both sides look at

Lee, some can't bear it. Lee tries out various expressions:

pride, defiance, blankness.

Grant stomps onto the porch of the house, followed by his

staff. Among them is Robert Lincoln.

Grant, lost in thought, stops, taken aback, realizing that

Lee's still there, astride his horse. Everyone looks at the

two men who look awkwardly at one another.

Then Grant removes his famous slouch hat. Everyone freezes

for a moment, and then one by one, the officers of the Union

Army remove their hats.

Lee is visibly moved by this gesture of respect. He raises

his hat, briefly, only an inch from his head. Then, pulling

slightly on his horse's reins, he rides away.

EXT. A BUGGY RIDE THROUGH WASHINGTON - AFTERNOON

A beautiful spring afternoon. Lincoln and Mary are riding in

the buggy, driven by the old soldier.

She seems sadder. They ride in silence.

She nods; then, tenderly:

Lincoln laughs, takes her hand. She leans against him.

INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE - EVENING

Lincoln's in the shirtsleeves and vest of his formal evening

wear, his hair brushed down and plastered in place. William

Slade is working the tie and gloves. James Ashley and

Schuyler Colfax stand with him, holding glasses of scotch

whiskey. Slade waits with Lincoln's coat, clothes brush, the

stovepipe hat and gloves on the table.

John Hay tears down several of the military maps, heavily

marked, from the bookcases where they're tacked. He drops

these on the floor. As they watch Hay:

They laugh. There's a knock on the door; Nicolay enters.

Lincoln nods. Slade enters with Lincoln's hat, coat, and

gloves. Lincoln begins to dress hurriedly.

Slade hands Lincoln his gloves as Colfax and Ashley drain

their drinks and rise.

He leaves the room.

INT. AN EMPTY CORRIDOR, SECOND FLOOR OF THE WHITE HOUSE -

On the way out, Lincoln tosses the gloves on a side table.

Slade grabs them, considers chasing after Lincoln, then

thinks better of it. He walks back towards the office. Then

some strange feeling stops him, and he turns around again.

Lincoln is walking away, past the petitioners' chairs, down

the empty hallway.

Slade watches till Lincoln turns the corner, and he's gone.

INT. A THEATER - NIGHT

The theater is adorned with patriotic bunting.

Onstage, a Caliph's palace. A YOUNG MAN duels with scimitars

against a huge, hideous AFRIT. A YOUNG WOMAN in chains cowers

in distress. The young man gymnastically avoids being killed,

then plunges his scimitar into the afrit's heart. The demon

screams and topples to the ground. The audience gasps as a

flame-colored, bejewelled bird rises up from the dead afrit's

heart.

The audience applauds. In the center box, Tad Lincoln is

joining in, as is his companion for the evening, Tom Pendel.

Onstage, the bird flies off, the young man is freeing the

young woman, when the scene is halted by the red curtain

lowering, surprising actors and audience. The music dies,

the gas lights in the house are being raised as the owner of

the theater, LEONARD GROVER, steps out before the curtain and

walks to the center of the stage, pale and badly shaken.

In the box, Tom Pendel glances quickly at Tad, who's fixed on

the stage, eyes open, alarmed.

The audience knows something's wrong. Their rising murmur of

concern dies immediately when Grover raises his hands.

There are screams of horror from the audience; people leap

from their seats.

The theater is a scene of complete pandemonium. People cry,

jam the aisles, call to each other across rows of seats,

shout questions at Grover, who's calling for calm, inaudible

in the uproar.

Tom Pendel is frozen in shock, then turns to draw Tad close

to him. Tad pulls away and begins shrieking, clinging to the

railing so tightly that Pendel can't pry him loose. Tad can't

stop screaming, his eyes wide open, seeing nothing.

INT. THE BEDROOM IN PETERSON'S BOARDING HOUSE - MORNING

Mary is gently escorted into a tiny room. A small, hissing

gas jet in the wall bathes the scene with green light.

Stanton, Speed, GENERAL HENRY HALLECK and a MINISTER, are

standing. Welles sits by the head of the bed. DR. CHARLES

LEALE, a young army surgeon, and DR. ROBERT STONE, the

Lincoln family's doctor, stand uselessly by the foot of the

bed, while DR. JOSEPH BARNES, the Surgeon General, listens to

Lincoln's faint breathing.

Robert, in uniform, red-eyed, pale as a ghost, sits at the

bedside and stares at his father, barely breathing.

Lincoln lies in a crooked diagonal, his knees bent, on a bed

he's too tall to fit properly, clad only in a nightshirt.

Barnes moves his head closer, then closer. The room is

utterly still. Barnes takes out his watch, looks at the time,

softly clears his throat.

No one talks, or moves.

Stanton looks at Lincoln's body.

Robert begins to weep.

EXT. THE EAST PORTICO OF THE CAPITOL - NOON

Lincoln, wearing spectacles, stands at a podium before the

Capitol Dome, still under scaffolding, under cloudy skies. He

reads from the two pages.

He glances at his audience: 40,000 people from all over the

country, wounded soldiers, civilians in black. And for the

first time, in the crowd, not at its edges, hundreds of

African Americans, civilians and soldiers.

