FADE IN

on the moon.

EXT. MOON

Camera begins to pull back slowly, straight up - the

song "Moon Shadow" by Cat Stevens begins.  Once we are

high enough to see the entire moon, the main title is

superimposed.

We continue to retreat from the moon, looking on as it

grows farther from us, continuing credits until the

full moon is the size it appears to us from earth.

Tree branches enter into the frame, the camera pans

down and we see a truck approaching.  We are at a

crossroads in the moors, looking sinister enough to

have earned their literary reputation.

The truck stops at the crossroads, the DRIVER,

mustached and wearing tweeds, boots, and a muffler,

climbs down.

"Moon Shadow" ends.

Loud bang of the back grating on the truck as it slams

down.  Revealed among the sheep are two rudely-awakened

young American boys.  They look exhausted.  They both

carry backpacks, two American kids on a jaunt in

Europe.  They are both in their late twenties.

It is very cold and they clamber out of the truck none

too happily.  Pushing sheep aside they step out and

stretch.

JACK GOODMAN AND DAVID KESSLER

They've been cramped for hours.

He drives off.  LONG SHOT of the two boys as the lorry

pulls away.  Surrounding them are the moors.  They put

on their packs, David points to the signpost pointing

towards East Proctor.

EXT. ROAD ON THE MOORS - NIGHT

As they walk, their breath visible:

They walk on, finally:

The camera shows us the moors - desolate, cold,

foreboding.

They walk on.

David just laughs and laughs and laughs.

David and Jack entering East Proctor.  It is brightly

moonlit.  East Proctor consists of a few shops, all

closed, a petrol pump and a pub.  East Proctor has a

very small population and the place looks empty.  David

and Jack enter the middle of town and look about.  The

camera sees what they see.  A few shops, dark and

shuttered.  Light and laughter come from the pub.

Its traditional shingle shows a ferocious wolf's bloody

head on a pike, and tells us the pub's name, "The

Slaughtered Lamb".

The pub was apparently "modernized" sometime in the mid-

fifties.  Its traditional Englishness combines with

greasy stainless steel and glass.  It is populated by

mostly pale young men with longish hair.  Several older

men are ruddy complexioned and sport large mustaches.

Four or five are watching a chess game.  Two men are

playing darts.  The conversation is loud and there is

often laughter.  But there is something unsavory about

these people.  A look of leanness and poverty.  They

seem inbred and somehow sullen.  We establish the types

and the general level of noise in the room.

The door opens revealing David and Jack.  There is dead

silence and all are staring in a not friendly way at

the two boys who are made uncomfortable by all the

strange attention.  They give each other a "what?"

look, then turn to the assembled populace.

FACES

Silent and staring.

DAVID AND JACK

The WOMAN BARKEEP nods.  The boys walk carefully over

to a table and very self-consciously remove their

packs, place them on the floor, and sit down at the

table.  There is a long, awkward wait.  The Woman

finally comes over to them.

As the Woman turns to prepare the tea, everyone resumes

what they were doing; talking, drinking, playing chess

and darts, and the boys breathe easier.

JACK'S P.O.V.

On the wall is painted a red pentangle (a five-pointed

star) and on either side burns a yellow candle.

The Woman brings them their tea.

Jack and David look startled.  One of the CHESS PLAYERS

explains:

This sends everyone into gales of laughter.  Jack and

David smile politely.

Laughter.

Uproarious laughter.

The men all coax him to tell the joke.

The drinkers have gotten the Chess Player to tell the

joke as everyone knew he would.

Uproarious laughter.

This is apparently the funniest joke the inhabitants of

East Proctor have ever heard.  The laughter is

uproarious, choking, knee-slapping, incredible.  As the

Chess Player goes to take a drink of beer, the Dart

Player gasps out...

...causing the Chess Player to spit out his beer

causing even harder laughter.  Complete hilarity.

Dead silence.  A dart lands in the wall.  David and

Jack are understandably bewildered.  The villagers look

hard indeed.

The villagers look threatening and David's voice is a

bit urgent.

The boys pick up their backpacks and move uncertainly

for the door.

David pushes Jack out.

It is very cold.

They start up the road into the night.

It is quiet.

The wax drips from the Pentangle's candles onto the

floor.

walking on the road surrounded by darkness.

They keep walking.

There is a flash of lightning that sends a ghostly

illuminating sheet of light over the boys' faces.  The

clap of thunder follows loud and rumbling.

Downpour.  The boys are walking in a deluge.

They walk getting soaked.

Jack spreads his arms and sings.

The rain is loud on the roof and beating on the

windows.  The gathered continue to drink, play chess

and darts, but all are silent and contemplative.

The Chess Player slams his hand on the table.  Shouts:

The rain is subsiding.  There is a very faint howl.

The camera lingers as the Chess Player's hard face

shows the man's struggle.  Another howl.  The Chess

Player turns suddenly.

David and Jack are now completely out of sight from

East Proctor surrounded by darkness and wet.  There is

a light drizzle.  They are standing, listening.  The

drizzle stops.

David begins to walk, Jack with him.

Another howl, this one long and loud.  It is a very

inhuman noise, terrifying, and closer this time.

They are both visibly worried and walk briskly back

from where they just came.  Although after a bit of

fast walking they are getting nowhere.  They stop out

of breath.

Another bloodcurdling howl.

A growl.  A low guttural growl comes from out of the

darkness.  We stay on the boys, but we hear something

out there.  It starts to walk.

And indeed it is.  The boys strain to hear its four

footfalls and they turn slowly, following it.  A snarl.

We hear the wolf-monster stop (for that's what it is -

we know it's there even though we've not seen it).  It

sits breathing heavily.

They do and David keeps talking as they walk.

The thing stalking them seems to speed up.  The boys

hesitate as they sense it run past them.  It stops.

Jack and David strain to see what waits ahead of them.

BOYS' P.O.V.

Something is waiting in the darkness.  Its hulking

shape is barely discernible, but its eyes glow eerily

and its breath is visible.

The boys keep talking as they move faster and faster.

They are in a full-out run by now.  After a few minutes

flight they stop, panting.

A moment of quiet, then a howl.

They walk briskly.

David shouts as he slips suddenly in the mud, scaring

Jack, and us, and himself a great deal.  He lays

startled on the wet ground for a moment, then he and

Jack laugh.

Jack takes David's extended hand to help him up when

THE WOLF MONSTER SPRINGS!

EXT. MOORS - NIGHT

The lunging beast brings Jack down in one fell swoop.

David falls back on his ass.  Jack is screaming and

struggling as he is torn to shreds.  David scrambles to

his feet and runs in complete panic.  Jack's screams

and the wolf's roars combine.

EXT. ROADSIDE ON THE MOORS - NIGHT

David runs and runs.  Finally he falls, out of breath.

He gets up and runs back to find Jack a torn and bloody

mess on the ground.  He stares in horror.

EXT. NIGHT - VARIOUS FLASH CUTS

THE WOLF SPRINGS!  The camera adopts David's P.O.V. as

he fights the dark savage shape on top of him.  Fangs

clamp down on his shoulder when shots ring out and the

hulking form rolls off of him.

EXT. ROADSIDE ON THE MOORS - NIGHT

David, dazed and bloody, looks and sees the men from

The Slaughtered Lamb armed with shotguns and torches

running towards him.  Looking over at his attacker,

instead of a wolf he sees a very old, naked man laying

in the mud riddled with bullet holes.  As the villagers

crowd around, David falls back and faints.

FADE IN

David is in a small, clean and very white hospital

room.  He lays on his back in bed, his shoulder

bandaged and his arm plugged into a bottle of plasma.

There are several cuts and abrasions on his arms and

face, but he really doesn't look too bad.  He opens his

eyes slowly, blinks, and tries to sit up and look

around, but is unable to because of the pain.  He calls

out....

...and passes out.  However his shout has fetched a

nurse.  She is ALEX PRICE, very English, very

beautiful.  She goes to the bed.

She looks into his eyes, lifting the lids with her

thumb, and then checks his chart at the end of the bed.

David remains unconscious.  Another young nurse, MISS

GALLAGHER, comes in.

A voice startles the girls.

DR. HIRSCH enters.  He is an older man wearing the

customary lab coat.  A very commanding and reassuring

presence.  The girls are embarrassed.

She exits.  Dr. Hirsch begins to examine David.  Alex

watches.  Dr. Hirsch turns to Alex.

She starts to exit.

She exits as Dr. Hirsch continues his examination,

looking into David's eyes.

The camera is handheld, running furiously through the

almost dense greenery.  On the soundtrack are the

footfalls and heavy breathing of the runner.  The

camera abruptly stops and turns, sharply looking about,

the panting continuing.  The breathing gets louder and

harder, then too loud when we:

David opens his eyes quickly, the silence and whiteness

contrast sharply with the preceding fantasy.  Standing

beside the bed are Dr. Hirsch and MR. COLLINS.  Mr.

Collins wears a bow tie and is holding a briefcase.

David jolts up in bed and shouts.

The sudden exertion and strain hurt.

He sinks back down.

Alex enters amidst David's shouting and confusion.

David continues shouting and struggling.

The shot is administered and David is held down by Dr.

Hirsch and Alex until his breathing becomes more

normal.

Dr. Hirsch walks Mr. Collins to the door.

Mr. Collins exits.  Dr. Hirsch crosses back to the bed.

Dr. Hirsch watches as Alex straightens David's covers.

David passes out.  Alex looks to Dr. Hirsch.

Dr. Hirsch regards David thoughtfully.

Dr. Hirsch is on the phone, he is referring to a desk

calendar.

He hangs up very disgruntled.  The intercom buzzes.

He rises to greet the two police officers, one tall,

the other rather pudgy.

The cops sit down, Lt. Villiers immediately produces a

small notebook.

Lt. Villiers shoots the sergeant a withering look.

Lt. Villiers glares at McManus.

The intercom buzzes.

He turns from the intercom back to the cops.

David sits up in bed.  Lt. Villiers and Sgt. McManus

stand by his side.  Dr. Hirsch sits observing.

The lieutenant goes for the door.  The sergeant smiles

at David and follows.

The cops exit.  Dr. Hirsch crosses to David's bed.

Again the handheld camera is running furiously through

the woods.  Heavy breathing and the sounds of the

runner crashing through the foliage.  The camera runs

for a while then suddenly stops short near a tree.

David abruptly enters frame, animal-like, the tenseness

of a startled cat.  His head makes sudden movements,

looking about.

CLOSEUP

of his flared nostrils and perked up ears accenting his

animalness.

DAVID

takes off and now we run with him.  He runs fast and

gracefully, taking long strides and leaps.  We run with

him faster and faster sharing in his exhilaration.  We

see him completely as the animal, study his movement

and grace as if watching a gazelle.  Suddenly he stops

again, alert, listening.  He moves with stealth, slowly

he pushes some leaves aside.

CLOSEUP

of his eyes.

DAVID'S P.O.V.

Several deer in the forest; they sense something and

freeze, the camera noting a fawn next to a doe.  The

buck turns his head, feeling the danger.

DAVID

Shots showing the muscles in his legs and shoulders

tensing.

CLOSEUP

of David's eyes.

CLOSEUP

of the frightened deer.

CLOSEUP

of David's eyes.

THE FAWN

as it is leapt upon, its terrified face leaving frame

as David forces it down.  David's head reenters frame,

his mouth full of flesh, his face and hands covered

with blood.  He howls in triumph.

The lights are subdued and David's asleep.  The door

opens, a shaft of light penetrates the room.  Miss

Gallagher enters with a small tray.  She crosses to

David, turns on the bed light and touches him.

Miss Gallagher is very efficient in administering the

pills and pouring a glass of water.

David takes the pills.

David has fallen asleep.  Miss Gallagher turns off the

light, picks up her tray and pauses in the doorway.

She exits, closing the door plunging the room into

darkness.

The corridor is busy with orderlies pushing gurneys

about, doctors, visitors, and patients all performing

appropriate background actions.  Behind the Nurses'

Counter, Alex is typing some forms and an older,

obviously senior nurse is filling some paper cups with

different sizes and colors of pills she is taking from

the drug cabinet.  She is MRS. HOBBS, the chief nurse.

Alex takes the cups handed to her and makes her way

down the hallway, pausing a moment to straighten her

appearance.  She enters.

A ward with seven or eight beds in it, all occupied.

She goes to a little Pakistani boy named BENJAMIN.

Alex pours a glass of water, gives the pill to Benjamin

who promptly takes it and then drinks the water,

handing Alex back the glass.

She exits, pausing in the hall to speak to a black

Jamaican ORDERLY pushing a cart of lunch trays into

Benjamin's ward.

Alex holds up her head and proceeds to David's room.

She hesitates, then peeks in.

The curtains are drawn and David's lunch waits

patiently on its tray alongside of the bed.  David is

apparently asleep.  Alex enters softly.

She opens the curtains, daylight fills the room.

David is getting interested.

Alex efficiently removes the covers from the dishes and

sits on the edge of the bed.  Taking knife and fork in

hand, she neatly cuts David's food into pieces.  David

watches all this amused.  She places a napkin under

David's chin and holds up his first bite on his fork.

David folds his arms and refuses to open his mouth.

Alex grabs David's nose forcing his mouth open quickly,

shoving the fork in it.  David is startled, but amused

and chews his food slowly and swallows it.  Alex holds

up another bite.

David opens his mouth obediently.  Alex almost smiles.

She feeds him for a while; they are both sizing each

other up.  Finally:

Alex smiles.

FADE IN

Again we are running fast and faster.  David again

running naked, flying through the green forest.  He

stops suddenly, ears perked, he looks about and then we

hear Jack's o.s. screams.  The voice of Jack screams:

David turns in blind panic, he runs (and we run with

him) desperately trying to find the source of Jack's

screams.

He comes to a clearing in the woods, light streaming

through the tall trees.  Jack's screams halt in mid-

word.  David looks in disbelief at the clearing.  There

is a hospital bed with someone in it.  It is the same

as David's.

David walks toward it slowly.  The figure in the bed

lays still.  It grows dark, very dark, and David looks

up at the full moon.  There is a howl identical to the

one heard earlier back on the moors.  David approaches

the bed slowly, fearfully.  We hear ocean noises on the

soundtrack, the sound of crashing surf.  David reaches

out to pull back the covers, lightning and thunder

cause him to hesitate for a second.  Silence.  The

camera remains on David as he pulls off the covers.

His face registers total disbelief and increasing

horror.

We cut to the bed to find - DAVID.  He lies there, pale

white with purple lips and death pallor.

The camera begins to move in on the corpse of David.

Cut back to the standing David's terrified face; then

continue until David's death mask fills the screen.

The face remains still for several beats, then suddenly

opens its bright yellow eyes and red mouth revealing

fangs in a bloodcurdling wail which carries over in

the....

Mrs. Hobbs hears David's screams and efficiently calls

out....

Miss Gallagher and an ORDERLY appear at once.

The orderly exits.

She exits.

It is bright, daylight, and Dr. Hirsch gazes

thoughtfully out the window.

Dr. Hirsch crosses over and sits on a chair by the bed.

There is an awkward silence as David sits and Dr.

Hirsch is embarrassed at raising his voice.

Dr. Hirsch goes to the door.

Alex sits next to David's bed.  Her shoes are off and

she has her feet tucked up under her legs on the chair.

The room is dark except for the lamp by which she

reads.  She is reading A Connecticut Yankee in King

Arthur's Court by Mark Twain.  David is asleep.  Alex

reads for a bit, then puts down the book and yawns.

She gets up and stretches, a big spreading arms and

feet, fingers and toes stretch.

They look at each other.

They sit and look at each other for a while longer.

We are at David's parents' house in New York.  His

FATHER sits reading the paper in the living room as his

younger BROTHER and SISTER watch "The Muppet Show" on

television.  We can see past the small dining nook

where David sits doing homework and into the kitchen

where his MOTHER is washing the dishes.  A peaceful

lower, middle class setting.  All is tranquil and

secure.  There is a loud pounding on the front door.

The pounding continues.

(The following happens with shocking speed.)  When he

opens the door, four beings open fire with machine

guns, blowing him away.  The sudden burst of violence

is terrifying and unrelenting.  The four rush into the

room and the family looks at them in fearsome surprise

for these men are not human at all, but loathsome,

bestial demons dressed as Storm Troopers.  One kicks in

the television and fires into the kitchen, blasting

David's mother.  David rises but is forced back into

his chair by one of the things and held there.

He watches in horror as his little brother and sister

scream in terror before they are brutally murdered.

The monstrous Storm Troopers then set fire to the

rooms.  The one holding David pulls a knife and quickly

slits David's throat.

David bolts upright in bed and looks around, trying

desperately to gain his bearings.  He sees that Alex is

asleep in the chair by his bed, Connecticut Yankee

folded on her lap.  He makes a deliberate effort to

calm himself.  He considers waking her, then decides

against it.  He turns on the lamp by his bed and

reaches over to take the book from Alex's lap.  David

takes the book as gently as possible, but Alex wakes up

anyway.

There is an awkward pause.

Alex is relieved for something to break the tension.

FADE IN

The black Orderly hustles in with David's breakfast

tray, busily setting up the tray on the table over the

bed.  He awakens the sleeping David with his activity.

The Orderly exits.  The drowsy David, who has been

trying to fully wake up during the Orderly's speech,

notices his exit.

He looks at his food none too happily.  He sticks a

spoon into the bowl of oatmeal and tastes is gingerly.

He settles down to eating, reaches over to butter his

toast and drink his juice.  While he eats, we hear

Jack's o.s. voice.

David looks over to the o.s. Jack.  Jack, behaving

relaxed and normal, sits in the chair last occupied by

Alex.  However, Jack's appearance makes his casual

manner all the more surreal.  He is as we left him

butchered on the moors.  He is covered with dried mud

and open wounds.  Huge glistening gashes abound on his

body.  His face is scratched, his throat is badly torn,

and his hair is matted with blood.  In several spots he

has already begun to rot.  He is a remarkably gruesome

sight, but his physical state seems not to affect him

at all.

Jack gets up and takes a piece of toast from David's

tray as David watches amazed.  Jack returns to his seat

and takes a bite out of his toast.  David stares at

Jack horrified.

Jack takes another bite of toast.

Jack rises and comes closer to David.

Alex rushing down the hospital corridor.

David rocking back and forth weeping.

Alex rushing down hospital corridor.

Alex rushing to the door.

ALEX

as she bursts into the room.

DAVID

laying in bed rocking from side to side, crying softly.

He is alone.  Alex rushes over, removes the tray, sits

on the bed and hugs David.

David pulls away sharply, his head jerking about wildly

until he focuses on Alex's face and begins to breathe

easier.

David smiles and kisses her, a real kiss.

Alex holds David a moment then realizes where she is

and backs off a little.  David composes himself.

David takes Alex's hand.

Alex considers for a while, finally....

David and Alex walking down the street.  Alex points

out her flat and leads David up the front steps.  She

gives him a conspiratorial look and unlocks the door.

Alex enters and David follows.  A small, utilitarian

apartment, she flicks on the kitchen light.  David puts

his backpack on the floor.

She proceeds to give the tour.

Alex enters the room and David whistles softly, rocking

on his heels.

David and Alex stand facing each other under the stream

of water in the shower.

MONTAGE IN SHOWER - DAY

A sequence of soap and flesh.  Van Morrison's

"Moondance" plays.  A montage of soapy hands on

slippery skin.  Thighs rubbing thighs, arms and

shoulders.  David and Alex kiss again and again and....

David and Alex in a passionate, orgasmic kiss in Alex's

bed.  David pulls out and they lay holding each other.

After a moment....

Alex props herself up on one elbow.

Pause.

Alex begins kissing David's neck.

She kisses his shoulders, then his chest.

Alex is now kissing his stomach, her head gradually

lowers from frame.  David reaches back over his head to

hold onto the headboard of the bed.

INT. ALEX'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Alex is asleep holding David.  David carefully lifts

her arm and gets out of bed.  He is naked.  He tiptoes

out of the room and goes to the bathroom.

David lifts the toilet seat and pees.  He winces,

hoping the steady stream doesn't awaken Alex.  When

he's finished peeing he goes to the sink.  The medicine

cabinet door over the sink is open.  When David closes

it he (and the audience) is terrified to see Jack

reflected standing behind him.  (Note: This is a big

scare.)  Bloodied and horrible, Jack has continued to

rot and looks even worse than when we last saw him.

David chokes out a strangled cry, closes his eyes

tightly and then reopens them.  Jack is still there in

the mirror.  When David turns around Jack is standing

in the doorway.

David, clearly troubled, follows Jack into the living

room.

Jack sits down and motions for David to sit also.  He

does.  David's conversation is in whispers, so as not

to wake up Alex.

Alex wakes up from the shouting.

Alex enters the room.

David turns and sees that Jack is gone.

Dr. Hirsch is driving down the main street in his red

M.G.  He parks in front of The Slaughtered Lamb.

The pub is less crowded than when we were here last.

The Dart Player is behind the bar cleaning glasses, the

Chess Player is still at the chessboard.  Dr. Hirsch

enters and crosses to the bar.  As he removes his

gloves:

The Woman comes in from the back.

She serves him his beer.  As he lays down his money...

After a few sips.

The Dart Player stops his wiping.

The Chess Player turns in his chair to get a good look

at Dr. Hirsch.

Dr. Hirsch crosses and joins the Chess Player at his

table.

Sees that Dr. Hirsch was talking about his game....

Dr. Hirsch points to the pentangle on the wall.

The Dart Player and Chess Player exchange a look.

Dr. Hirsch eyes the Chess Player.

We find Alex and David in an embrace by the front door.

Alex is dressed in her nurse's uniform and David has

jeans and a T-shirt on.  He is shoeless and obviously

not going out.  Alex pulls away.

He opens the door and they both go outside.

DAVID

walk to the sidewalk.  It is rather chilly.

They kiss again.

Alex goes off, turning for a last wave.  David stands

looking after her when a LITTLE GIRL walking a dog

passes by.  The dog, on seeing David, begins to growl

and snarl.

The dog begins barking ferociously, the little girl

tugging on his leash.

He realizes just how cold he is outside and runs back

up the steps to find the door locked.

Cut to shot of David's bare feet on the cold stone.  He

mutters to himself, imitating a newscaster.

He looks around and sees that there is a small window

ajar on the side of the flat about eleven feet off the

ground, which can be reached by climbing a brick wall,

which he does but not without damage to his bare toes.

At the top of the wall is a cat that begins to hiss on

seeing David.  The hair stands up on its arched back

and it glares at David, hissing and spitting.  David is

disturbed by the cat's hostile behavior.

The cat is really acting fierce.  When David goes to

pat it cautiously, it screeches and runs away.  David

is, by this time, not amused.  David manages to pull

himself into the window.

David awkwardly enters the bathroom through the tiny

window.  Finally getting both feet on the ground, he

steps to the sink and regards himself in the mirror.

He examines his mouth, touching his canines carefully.

After a while he sighs and goes into the kitchen.

David goes straight to the fridge and opens it.  He

closes the fridge and walks into the bedroom.

He lays down on the bed.  After a few beats of staring

at the ceiling, he rises and goes back into the

kitchen.

He reopens the fridge.

He closes the fridge and walks into the living room.

David turns on the television.  On Thames is a soccer

match.  On BBC 1 is some truly insipid children's

program, and on BBC 2 is a soccer match.  David

switches off the television.

He sits on the chair nervously, drumming his fingers

and humming.

David gets up, goes to the front door, and flings it

open.  It is getting dark.  David views this fearfully,

but still not completely convinced.  He goes back

inside and we note that the front door is not

completely closed.  He goes back into the bathroom and

looks into the mirror.

He goes back into the living room and paces round and

round the room like a caged animal.

Alex is back with Benjamin, the little Pakistani.

She tucks him in.

For the first time, Benjamin smiles.  As Alex tucks him

in, we can clearly see the full moon outside through

the window.

David sits reading Connecticut Yankee when he suddenly

clutches his head in pain.

He stands in agony, the book falls to the floor.

He begins sweating profusely, clinging to the sides of

his head.  He trembles violently.

He rips at his shirt, tearing it off.  His body is

dripping wet.

As a new spasm of pain wracks his body, he cries out in

anguish.

David's hair is wringing wet.  He screams and grabs at

his legs.

New bolts of agonizing pain wrack through David's body.

He grabs at his pants, pulling them off as if they are

burning him.

Standing naked in the center of the room, David gasps

for air.

He falls to his knees and then forward on his hands.

He remains on his hands and knees, trying to master his

torment; but it's no use.  On all fours he gives

himself over to the excruciating hurt and slowly begins

to change.

The metamorphosis from man into beast is not an easy

one.  As bone and muscle bend and reform themselves,

the body suffers lacerating pain.  We can actually see

David's flesh move, the rearranging tissue.  His mouth

bleeds as fangs emerge.  His whole face distorts as his

jaw extends, his skull literally changing shape before

our eyes.  His hands gnarl and his fingers curl back as

claws burst forward.

The camera pans up to show the full moon outside

through the window.  David's moans change slowly into

low guttural growls.  We hear the four footfalls as the

WOLF begins to walk.  As the camera pans back over the

room, we see the front door pushed open and hear the

Wolf padding off into the darkness.

A taxi pulls up in front of a block of flats.  An

attractive couple gets out.  The Man pays the driver

and the cab drives off.

Harry takes her hand and leads her around the side of

the flats.  The apartments back up to a park and the

two walk around to the rear.  The park is dark and

quiet.

THE WOLF SPRINGS!  Before the Woman can scream, the

Wolf whirls around and goes for her throat.  We can't

see clearly, but we see enough to realize how large the

Wolf is and that its wolfen features are twisted and

demonic.  The Wolf savagely devours its two victims.

Sean's wife is looking through their French windows out

onto the park - a middle-aged couple.

Miss Gallagher is helping Mrs. Hobbs dispense

medication into paper cups when Dr. Hirsch approaches.

He is still wearing his overcoat.

Miss Gallagher is not sure how to answer.

Alex has walked up and overheard the last.

Alex and Susan exchange glances as she obediently

follows Dr. Hirsch down the hallway.

Sean has exited the back of his flat to investigate his

wife's complaints.  She hangs by the door.  He walks

deeper into the park.

Dr. Hirsch hangs up his overcoat.

Alex sits and Dr. Hirsch leans against his desk.

Alex looks confused.  Dr. Hirsch realizes the cause of

her concern.

Dr. Hirsch picks up the phone.

Sean carefully approaches something near the trees.  He

steps on something and looks down to see what it is.

It is an arm.

TELEPHONE

rings loudly.  (This is a scare.)  It continues to ring

unanswered.

Dr. Hirsch waits on the phone, finally hanging up.

Alex grows worried.

Alex is flabbergasted.

Suddenly.

The bombed-out ruins of this unsavory part of London

are stark and uninviting in the moonlight.  Three old

DERELICTS are huddled around a trash can fire trying to

keep warm.  A skinny dog is tied up beside them.  Its

ears perk up and he growls in warning.

The dog begins to whine.

Derelict #1 unties Winston who takes off running in

terror.

An unearthly howl shatters the night.  We've heard this

sound on the moors.

He points out into the night.  They strain their eyes -

something is approaching them.  They can just make out

its size.

A train SCREECHES to a halt.  (A scare.)  We are in the

tubes of London.  Only one passenger disembarks and the

train goes off, leaving him alone in the cavernous

hallways.  The PASSENGER is a young man, rather well-

dressed.  He looks about the platform, then at his

watch.  He walks up to a vending machine to buy a

Cadbury Chocolate Bar.

INT. SUBWAY STATION - LONG SHOT

as the Passenger puts his coin in the vending machine.

The camera is on ground level and as we watch the

Passenger, the Wolf's legs flash by us.

CLOSEUP

of the Passenger eating his chocolate bar.  He turns

thoughtfully, wondering if he had heard something.

Satisfied that he is alone, he begins his walk down one

of the long serpentine tunnels that make up London's

tubes.  He feels he's being followed and turns slowly

to look.  There is no one and he continues, concerned

about his imagination.

CLOSEUP - WOLF'S EYES

watching in the darkness.

BACK TO SCENE

Our Passenger approaches the first escalator, pauses,

then gets on going swiftly and silently up the moving

stairway.

CLOSEUP - WOLF'S SNOUT

In profile we can see its ragged, razor-sharp fangs and

black tongue.  It waits, panting, drool falls from its

mouth.

BACK TO SCENE

The Passenger reaches the landing and walks briskly

down the long tunnel marked "Escalator to Street

Level".  He is being followed.  He hears it and we hear

it.  He stops, frightened.

TUNNEL

Long and empty.

THE PASSENGER

We hear the Wolf's heavy breathing.  The Passenger is

beginning to panic.

He looks around wildly.

PASSENGER'S P.O.V.

We see the Wolf at a great distance trotting down the

tunnel towards us.

THE PASSENGER

turns to flee, his jog becoming a run.  He is

terrified.

WOLF - CLOSEUP

of the Wolf's running steps.

THE PASSENGER

frantically running, falls to the ground hard bloodying

his nose.  He scrambles to his feet crying out in fear.

Reaching the escalator, he begins to run up the moving

stairs, falling several times.  He sits, panting and

defeated, the blood trickling from his nose.

WOLF'S P.O.V.

as it begins to climb the stairs.  The camera tracks

slowly in on the increasingly horrified Passenger until

we are in an extreme closeup of his eyes, when we:

(A scare.)  The tiger paces in its cage and roars

again.  We are at:

EXT. LONDON ZOO - DAY

It is early morning and all the animals are aroused.

We cut around to roaring cats, screeching monkeys, and

panicky birds, etc., until we come to the Wolves' cage

where we find David, naked and curled up on the ground

by the cage, asleep.  David wakes up slowly.  He is

completely naked, his body dirty, with several

scratches on his torso and legs.  He yawns and

stretches, makes a face, and with his finger picks

something distasteful from his teeth.  He also notices

something under his fingernails and as he goes to clean

them, he suddenly does a complete Stan Laurel

discovering where he is.  He puts his hands over his

eyes.

He slowly peaks through his fingers; he's still there.

He stands up and looks around.

The zoo opens and women with prams and children hustle

about.  David sees them coming towards him, notes his

lack of clothes, and decides it would be better for all

concerned if they did not meet.  He looks around for a

suitable hiding place and dashes behind some bushes.

He crouches down so that he can't be seen, scratching

himself on a thorn.

Alex sits holding David's torn T-shirt.  She is trying

to read her book, but is just too distracted.  The

phone rings and she runs for it.

She hangs up and looks around the empty flat.  She is

now more worried than ever.

David is still behind the bushes.  He looks to see if

the coast is clear, then stands up and parts the

bushes.  He steps out to confront a DOWAGER LADY.

DOWAGER'S FACE

Dumbfounded.

He returns to the bushes.

CLOSEUP - A GORILLA EATING

A LITTLE BOY with four helium balloons on a string is

staring intently at the gorilla.  The Little Boy leaves

the monkey house and we travel with him as he looks at

several other animals.  Eventually he comes to the Wolf

cage.

The Little Boy looks around.

The Little Boy pantomimes, "who me?"

THE BUSHES

David cannot be seen.

The Little Boy shakes his head.  The bush replies:

The Little Boy shakes his head.  The bush pleads.

The Little Boy shakes his head.  The bush reasons:

The Little Boy starts cautiously towards the shrubbery,

but stops a few feet away.

The Little Boy edges forward.

When the Little Boy gets within reach, David grabs his

balloons and uses them to cover his crotch.

David runs off through the zoo, naked but for his

balloons, startling several animal lovers.

An ELDERLY COUPLE sits feeding birds, their coats

folded nearly over the park bench.  A naked blur darts

by, grabbing the top coat as it passes, scaring off the

birds.

The Little Boy tugs at his MOTHER'S coat.

The signs they always have on London newsstands

proclaim "Man or Monster?"  Dr. Hirsch picks up a

newspaper with its headline, "London Murder Victims

Found Partially Devoured".

He pays for the papers.  The second one's headline,

"Death Toll Up To Six - New Jack The Ripper?"

in another part of town.  The camera is on the crowd of

fifteen or twenty people waiting for the bus.  When the

bus pulls up, they all crowd in.  The camera goes to

floor level and slowly examines the footwear of the

crowded bus.  Passengers are standing in the aisle and

the camera slowly pans on their galoshes, boots, high

heels, rubbers, etc., until it comes to rest on a

conspicuous pair of bare feet.  We pan up to find David

clad only in a woman's rain coat with a fur collar

trying to look as nonchalant as possible.  A man looks

at him oddly.

The man studies David carefully.

Alex sits in the kitchen drinking tea and reading.

There is loud knocking on the door.  Alex rushes to

open it and David enters quickly, closing the door

behind him.  He is still wearing the woman's coat.

He goes into the bedroom and takes off the coat and

gets dressed as Alex watches in amazement.  David is

excited, even euphoric.

Alex sits next to him and puts her arm around his

shoulders.

David kisses her, a desperate kiss, and she kisses back

with equal passion.

David laughs.

Dr. Hirsch is dialing the phone.

The phone rings.

Alex goes to the phone.

The telephone conversation is intercut between Alex and

Dr. Hirsch.

Alex speaks softly so that David won't hear her.

Dr. Hirsch considers.

Dr. Hirsch hangs up, checks a piece of paper, and then

dials again.

Alex and David are walking.

Alex is signaling for a taxi.

A taxi pulls up; Alex opens the door.

As they drive.

The cab pulls to the sidewalk.

David gets out of the cab.

She hurriedly hands the Driver some money and takes off

after David.

He turns and faces her.

David takes off walking briskly down the street.  Alex

has to jog to keep up with him.

He strides up to a Bobbie on the corner.

Alex runs up.

The Bobbie takes David's arm roughly as pedestrians

start to gather.

David approaches one of the ONLOOKERS.

The Bobbie has lost all patience.

The Bobbie walks away.  David is beside himself.

David turns in a rage.

He begins to cry.

He runs out into the street.  Cars slam on their

brakes, just missing him.

It's too late.  He's lost in traffic.  Alex stands for

a moment not knowing which way to turn.

David is running in panic.  He finally comes to rest in

an alley.  He sits down and sobs uncontrollably.

Alex sits distraught in the chair opposite the desk.

Dr. Hirsch is talking to Lt. Villiers and Sgt. McManus.

He and Sgt. McManus pause by the door.

The two policemen exit.  Dr. Hirsch looks at Alex.

David is in a telephone booth.

He hangs up in profound depression.  Leaving the booth

he sees an outdoor clock.  It is 4:15.  He sighs, then

catches sight of something.

There stands Jack, now truly rotted and ghastly.  He's

pretty much dried out, a third of his face gone

revealing the grinning skull.  He waves to David.  Jack

points inside the theater and goes in.  David smiles,

walks across the intersection, and up to the box

office.

David reaches in his pocket.  All he has are traveler's

checks.

David signs a $100 check and hands it to her.

She gives him a ticket.  David goes in.

A film (to be determined) plays on screen.  The small

theater is mostly empty.  A few snoring BUMS and wide-

eyed CHILDREN are scattered about.  Jack sits in the

last row in the shadows.  He waves to David.  David

goes and sits next to him.

They sit for a while watching the screen.

Sitting down the row from Jack is a man, GERALD

BRINGSLY, completely in the shadow.

The camera pans down to show the blood dripping from

the seat to a puddle on the floor.

Bringlsy leans forward almost into the light, he

glistens.

The two victims lean forward from their seats next to

Mr. Bringsly.  We can just make out that Harry has one

arm missing.

The Three Derelicts sit next to Harry and Judith.  All

are slick in the darkness, the light from the screen

illuminating their gore.

David puts his head in his hands.

As the conversation continues, the camera pulls back

from the grisly tableau.  David grabs his head

suddenly.

The clock strikes eleven.  The full moon is up.

David is dripping wet and shaking violently.  Three

small children, the oldest nine, stand in the aisle

staring at him.

The children watch, fascinated as David's seizures grow

more severe.

His hands clutch the arms of his chair.  Coarse thick

hair splits his skin.  The children's eyes widen in

fascination.

Roars and screams come from inside the theater.  The

TICKET TAKER at the door says to the Ticket Lady:

He goes inside the theater.

The Ticket Taker enters the theater.  The movie

continues on screen, but all else is quiet.  He

cautiously continues down the aisle.  He sees something

and makes his way towards it.  He looks down in horror.

THE WOLF SPRINGS!

From way up high we look down on the sidewalks and

single out TWO BOBBIES running furiously to the cinema

through the busy traffic.

The two cops run up, the Ticket Lady is hysterical.

One cop stays with the lady, the other rushes inside.

The cop enters a side door to find several bloodied

corpses.  He hears something, looks over to see the

Wolf hunched over a victim.  The Wolf turns, eyes

blazing, mouth dripping with blood.  We see it clearly

for the first time.  It is truly a hound from hell, its

wolfen features a hideous sight.  Its eyes fierce,

burning green.  The Wolf roars and starts for the cop.

The cop rushes out and slams the door behind him.

As the cop bolts the door shut.

The doors shudder as the Wolf begins to batter them

down.  The cops strain to keep them shut.

Pedestrians start milling around.  The door is bulging.

The Wolf's roars continue.

Alex is asleep.  Dr. Hirsch wakes her.

An officer unlocks a rack of rifles which are

distributed to uniformed men.

Police cars arrive, sirens blaring.  Officers are

pushing the crowd back as other men help hold the door

closed against the Wolf's battering.

Another police car pulls up and out steps Lt. Villiers

and Sgt. McManus.

Suddenly the doors splinter apart and there stands the

Wolf, eyes blazing.  It leaps on Lt. Villiers, savaging

him.  The crowd falls back in panic.

The Wolf runs into traffic, a cab swerves to avoid

hitting it and plows into fleeing pedestrians hurling

one through a shop window.  Mass confusion as orders

are shouted and the police pursue the Wolf.

It runs down an alleyway into a cul de sac.  It stops

in the darkness, blocked by a brick wall.  The Wolf

whirls around, defiant, roaring.  The cops quickly

barricade the entrance to the alley.

The taxi is halted by the traffic jam in Leicester

Square.  Police vehicles roar past.

She jumps from the car before Dr. Hirsch can stop her.

The police arrive with weapons and efficiently ring the

alley.  Alex runs to them.

Alex dodges the cop and runs into the alley.  The

officers shout after her.  Dr. Hirsch reaches the

police line.

Alex walks towards the dark end of the alley.

She's almost to the end.  The Wolf lays in wait in the

shadows.  The police raise their weapons.

THE WOLF REARS UP.  In that brief instant, Alex

realizes it will kill her.

The guns blaze.  The Wolf falls dead.  Alex leans on

the wall, numb.  The cops, Dr. Hirsch, and Sgt. McManus

run to the dead Wolf only to find David, naked and

riddled with bullets.  Alex begins to weep.

BLACK

END CREDITS OVER BLACK

SONG: The fifties rock version of "Blue Moon".

