Against BLACK SCREEN a TITLE CARD appears:

"The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best

shadowy and vague. Who shall say where the one ends, and

where the other begins?" - Edgar Allan Poe

TITLE CARD dissolves.

1.EXT. 112 OCEAN AVENUE  AMITYVILLE  NIGHT

We slowly pan through a suburban neighbourhood located on

the south shore of Long Island. The still shroud of night

blankets the village of Amityville in the early morning

hours.

TITLE CARD Appears:

Thursday, November 14, 1974.

TITLE CARD Dissolves.

Stray house pets are the only signs of life as families and

neighbours slumber. We reach 112 Ocean Avenue, a large Dutch

Colonial house. The home is a classic piece of Americana,

two stories plus an attic, several rooms, and a boathouse on

the Amityville River. There are quarter round windows on the

top floor that give the appearance of eyes staring back at

us.

A signpost in the front yard reads "HIGH HOPES", a testament

to what the home symbolizes for the family that live there.

2.INT. BASEMENT  112 OCEAN AVENUE  CONTINUOUS

We move slowly through the basement, past various crushed

beer cans and a table full of drug paraphernalia, until we

reach a bearded man in his early twenties. RONALD DEFEO

JUNIOR, known to his family and friends as BUTCH. He sits on

a ragged sofa, dozing off in front of a small Television

that displays white static.

There is a digital clock on a small table by the side of the

sofa. It reads 3:14am. We hold on the clock and the time

changes to 3:15am. We can see DeFeo's breath drift from his

lips as cold air sweeps through the room. His eyes snap

open.

A hooded figure, face shrouded in darkness, steps from the

shadows. The figure carries a .35 caliber lever action

Marlin 336C rifle. Hands clad in black leather gloves, the

mysterious person holds the rifle out in front of Butch. A

voice emerges from beneath the hood that is so deep as to be

Butch stands and takes the rifle. The figure retreats back

into the shadows.

3.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

The house is silent. Butch quietly stalks the hallways, the

rifle grasped tightly in his hands.

4.INT. MASTER BEDROOM  CONTINUOUS

Butch quietly pushes the door aside and observes his parents

as they sleep. RONALD DEFEO SENIOR, age forty three, is a

heavy set Italian American man and his wife LOUISE DEFEO is

a slender woman, aged forty two, with flowing blonde hair.

Both are lying flat on their stomachs. Without hesitation,

Butch raises the rifle to his shoulder and pulls the

trigger. The BLAST is deafening. The first shot rips into

his fathers back, tearing through his kidney and exiting

through his chest. Butch fires another round, again hitting

his father in the back. This shot pierces the base of Ronald

Senior's spine, and lodges in his neck.Louise DeFeo's eyes

open, but she barely has a few seconds to react. Butch aims

the weapon at his mother as she lays prone on the bed, and

fires two shots in quick succession. The bullets shatter her

rib cage and collapse her right lung. Both bodies now lay

silently in fresh pools of their own blood.

5.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Butch, in an almost trance like state, walks down the hall

and quietly nudges the door to another bedroom.

6.INT. BOY'S BEDROOM  CONTINUOUS

Butch enters the bedroom that his two brothers MARK, aged

twelve, and JOHN, aged nine, share. He walks between their

two beds as they lie on their stomachs, sleeping soundly.

Standing directly above his two helpless brothers, Butch

fires one shot into each of the boys as they lay sleeping.

The bullets tear through their young bodies, ravaging their

internal organs, laying waste to the lives that lay ahead of

them. Mark lays motionless, while John, whose spinal cord

has been severed by his brother's heartless attack, twitches

spasmodically for a few moments after the shooting.

7.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Stangely, the loud shots have not roused the remaining

members of the DeFeo family, and Butch skulks unchallenged

to his final destination-the bedroom shared by his sisters

DAWN, eighteen years old, and ALLISON, aged thirteen.

8.INT. GIRLS' BEDROOM  CONTINUOUS

As Butch enters the room, Allison stirs. She looks up just

as Butch lowers the rifle to her face and pulls the trigger.

Butch then aims his weapon at Dawn's head and squeezes the

trigger again, literally blowing the left side of her face

off. Both girls die instantly. The white sheets and walls

are splattered with blood and brain matter. Butch is unmoved

and expressionless. He surveys the carnage for a moment,

then calmly walks out of the room.

9.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Butch walks past a photograph hanging on the wall in a red

frame. It shows all seven members of the DeFeo family in a

group, hugging each other with smiles on their faces. The

sound of children singing the nursery rhyme "Ring Around a

Rosie" in a slow, haunting manner echoes through the house.

We push in on the photograph and:

FADE TO BLACK

10.EXT. CAR  AMITYVILLE  DAY

A car drives through the village of Amityville on a cold

winter's day. TITLE CARD appears:

AMITYVILLE, LONG ISLAND - 2013.

TITLE CARD Dissolves.

11.INT. CAR  CONTINUOUS

A young girl in her mid twenties is driving the car. She is

attractive yet she dresses very conservatively in a thick

sweater and baggy combat trousers. This is LISA TEMPLETON.

She consults a crumpled piece of paper. Directions are

scribbled on it.

12.EXT. CAR  CONTINUOUS

The car turns the corner and heads down a long driveway

surrounded by trees. The car approaches a large imposing

building which casts a dark shadow over the grounds. Outside

a sign reads HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL.

13.INT. HALLWAY  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  DAY

Lisa is sat on a bench in a long empty corridor. She has a

file in her hand and taps her fingers on it nervously. A

door opens and a middle aged man dressed in a crisp white

shirt and tie steps out. He is well groomed and his eyes are

warm and inviting. This is DOCTOR ELLIOT MIXTER.

Lisa stands abruptly, dropping her file in the process.

Lisa scrambles to pick up the file and papers fall out of

it.

Mixter smiles.

Lisa manages to retrieve the file and papers from the floor

and compose herself. Mixter holds the door open and Lisa

enters the office.

14.INT. MIXTER'S OFFICE  CONTINUOUS

Lisa stands in the office. Mixter enters and shuts the door.

Lisa sinks into a chair next to a large oak desk. Mixter

walks to the opposite side and sits in a large leather chair

facing her.

Mixter takes the file from her and opens it on his desk. He

glances over it.

that area. I would clean my mother

when she lost control of her bodily

functions during her illness. It's

something I got used to very

quickly. It became routine.

I see. How is your mother now?

Well... she passed away.

I'm sorry to hear that. So... it's

important to me that every employee

here, whether they are a

psychiatrist, an orderly or a

cleaner, needs to fully understand

what our mission statement at this

hospital is.

Okay.

High Hopes was only built two years

ago and as an institution we have

only been running for just over a

year now. So we're still building

our reputation. But I am very clear

on what I want that reputation to

be. I intend to make this

institution one of the foremost

centres for mental health treatment

in the country. If you look into my

history you'll know that I have a

stellar reputation in the field of

psychiatry and I want to use that

to help others. That is why I have

put my own money into the creation

of this institution. We are only

just starting out but we have a

long term ambition to be considered

the best. So what I require is that

every person who works at this

institution, in any capacity, must

be professional and sensitive to

the needs of the patients. Unlike

other institutions, the welfare and

care of our patients comes first

here.

Lisa's face quickly contorts. Mixter looks puzzled. Suddenly

Lisa sneezes. It shoots out so rapidly she has no time to

cover her mouth and nose. She sneezes all over Mixter. Lisa

looks horrified.

Lisa rushes to Mixter's side and grabs a tissue from a

Kleenex box on his desk. She frantically wipes the saliva

and snot from his face.

Lisa, completely mortified, sits back down. An unimpressed

Mixter wipes the spittle off his face with a tissue. When

he's done he stares at Lisa.

Such is her embarrassment, Lisa can't get out of the office

fast enough.

15.INT. BEDROOM  LISA'S HOME - LONG ISLAND  NIGHT

Lisa is lying on her bed watching TV, flicking endlessly

through the channels. The phone on the bedside table rings.

Lisa picks up the receiver.

Long silence on the line.

You should take my advice and show

a little cleavage at these

interviews! Trust me, you'd get the

job then!

That's just not me Nance. I

wouldn't know where to start with

flirting or any of that. Christ, if

I wore high heels to one of these

interviews I'd probably trip over!

I'm a clumsy dork!

So what are you thinking of doing?

I dunno. Thanks for not disputing

that dork remark by the way.

[Laughs] Sorry, hun!

I guess I'll have to sign on

welfare to make the rent. Long

term, maybe I should go back to

school. Get better qualified for

something.

How come you don't do something

with your writing? You could try

and get something published. Or

write a book or something?

I dunno, I just... it's like I just

haven't been able to bring myself

to write since ... you know...

I know. It's a cliche, but time

really is a healer. I'm sure the

passion you had for it will come

back.

Maybe.

You wanna talk about it?

16.INT. KITCHEN  LISA'S HOME  LATER

Lisa is rummaging in her freezer for some ice cream. She

pulls out a tub and tosses it on the counter. She opens the

cutlery drawer and grabs a spoon. The phone rings.

17.INT. LIVING ROOM  CONTINUOUS

Lisa walks over to the phone and picks up the receiver.

Lisa is stunned into silence.

Lisa puts the phone down with a smile.

18.INT. RECEPTION AREA  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL - DAY

Lisa enters the hospital. A man in his thirties dressed in a

boiler suit is stood on a step ladder. He is attempting to

change a light bulb in the hallway but seems to be making

hard work of it. The bulb drops from his hand and smashes to

the ground. Lisa looks up at him.

Lisa averts her eyes but the man is now aware of her

presence. He has a Polish accent but his English is very

articulate.

Delaney climbs off the step ladder and shakes Lisa's hand.

19.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD  LATER

Delaney opens the cupboard door and for a moment he and Lisa

are silhouetted in the doorway. Delaney pulls a string

hanging near the door and a light comes on. The cupboard is

packed with various cleaning products.

task is here, each shelf is

labelled.

Okay.

The most obvious task is hoovering.

This is our hoover here, it's

straight forward. You'll be

surprised that although it's

powerful it's very quiet, because

we are working when everyone's in

bed so obviously we don't want to

wake them up! It has a Telescopic

suction tube and six stage filter

system. So a lot more powerful than

you may be used to.

Okay.

The mop and bucket is here, we

usually use standard bleach to mix

with the water so that's straight

forward. But there is this

specialist stain remover that you

must use if there are any stains on

the floor or carpet. It needs to be

sprayed and left to set for twenty

minutes before scrubbing or

mopping. It's a special formula for

tea, coffee, water marks and other

yellow and brown discolourations on

the carpets or floors. It's pretty

strong so wash your hands after you

use it!

One of the worst parts of the job

is we have to remove chewing gum

from lots of surfaces. They don't

just stick it underneath the

tables, it ends up everywhere!

Gross!

Delaney smiles.

20.INT. WARD B  LATER

Lisa follows Delaney into the communal area of Ward B. The

walls are white and clinical. Various patients are scattered

across the room, each with a look of resignation in their

eyes. Many stare blankly out of the window.

Delaney and Lisa walk over to an old woman who is sat still

in the chair. Her eyes are open yet she appears lifeless.

No response or acknowledgement of other people's presence.

Missus Hardesty continues to stare into nothingness. Delaney

and Lisa exit.

21.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Delaney and Lisa stroll down the long corridors.

Delaney and Lisa arrive at a doorway.

Delaney smiles.

Delaney opens the door.

22.INT. STAIRCASE  CONTINUOUS

Lisa follows Delaney down a winding staircase. As they

descend down the steps, the light fades.

23.INT. WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Delaney and Lisa enter a long dark corridor with a row of

thick metal doors either side. Two light bulbs hang from the

ceiling at each end of the corridor, providing only minimal

illumination. Lisa's nose twitches.

Lisa looks concerned.

Delaney walks over to the first door on the right. There is

a hatch on the door. Delaney slowly slides it open and

beckons Lisa over. She peers inside. The cell is very basic,

white walls with the only furniture being an uncomfortable

looking bed and a toilet without a seat. There are thick

iron bars on one small window. A skinny man in his thirties

sits on a basic bed in a white vest, rocking back and forth.

He has wild hair and a scraggly beard.

Delaney slides the hatch shut and walks over to the next

door. He slowly slides open the hatch and Lisa peers inside.

Another basic white cell with only a bed and toilet. A man

stands in the centre of the room with his hands behind his

back. His hair is slicked back, as jet black as the eyes

that stare at Lisa. He smiles. Delaney slides the hatch

shut.

Delaney walks over to a door on the opposite side of the

hallway. He slides open the hatch.

Lisa looks inside. Inside the basic cell a woman sits cross

legged on her bed. She has long flowing black hair, intense

eyes and a pentagram carved into her forehead. She looks up

and smiles at Lisa. Delaney slides the hatch shut.

Delaney walks over to the last door on the left. He slides

open the hatch. A singular shaft of light coming from a tiny

barred window barely penetrates the darkness of the cell.

Lisa peers inside to see a man sat in the shadows.

Delaney stares at Lisa.

Delaney slams the hatch shut. Lisa looks disturbed.

Lisa considers for a moment.

24.EXT. HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

The hospital is bathed in moonlight.

25.INT. WARD B  CONTINUOUS

Lisa hoovers the carpet in the empty communal room. She then

empties the bins. A Clock on the wall ticks towards 3:15am.

26.INT. HALLWAY  A LITTLE LATER

Lisa is mopping. As she reaches the end of the hallway a

young girl walks around the corner carrying a teddy bear.

Lisa is STARTLED.

The girl has flowing blonde hair and an angelic face, yet

there is a haunting sadness in her eyes.

The girl walks away.

27.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD  NIGHT

Lisa is returning the mop and bucket to the storage

cupboard. She knocks a bottle off the shelf and leans over

to pick it up.

POV SHOT: Someone is approaching Lisa, edging closer and

closer. A hand stretches out and touches her shoulder. Lisa

JUMPS and SMACKS her head on the underside of the bottom

shelf.

Lisa turns around to see Delaney standing there.

Lisa rubs her head.

28.INT. HALLWAY  LATER

Delaney and Lisa are sat on a bench in the hallway sipping

coffee from plastic cups.

Lisa looks down at a distinctive tattoo on Delaney's wrist.

Delaney pulls his sleeve down to cover it up.

Delaney doesn't answer and takes a long sip of coffee.

Delaney appears confused.

Now it's Lisa who is confused.

Delaney contemplates for a moment.

29.INT. WARD B  LATER

Lisa is polishing a table. Delaney walks in with

HARDCASTLE,a well built man with a skinhead and visible

tattoos on his arms.

Hardcastle exits. Lisa looks embarrassed.

30.INT.STAIRCASE  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL-NEXT NIGHT

Lisa walks tentatively down the staircase carrying a mop and

bucket. A clock on the wall reads 3:15am.

31.INT. WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Lisa walks into Ward X. She looks down the dimly lit hallway

and pauses for a moment. Overcoming her nerves, she places

the bucket on the floor and starts mopping.

As she edges through the hallway Lisa notices a light

flickering from underneath one of the cell doors. She walks

over and slowly reaches for the hatch. Sliding it open Lisa

peers inside. In the centre of the floor she sees a needle,

a piece of paper and a piece of red wool surrounded by Six

lit candles. She looks around and nobody seems to be in the

cell.

Suddenly SADIE jumps up right in front of the hatch! Lisa

FALLS backwards, letting out an involuntary SCREAM! She

stumbles to her feet as Sadie laughs. Lisa slams the hatch

shut and rushes towards the exit.

32.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD  NIGHT

Delaney is sifting through a tool box. Lisa stands in the

doorway.

Lisa grabs a roll of bin bags from the shelf.

33.EXT.MIXTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Lisa knocks on the door.

She knocks again. No answer. Lisa tentatively turns the

handle. The door slowly creaks open. The office is empty.

Lisa walks in.

34.INT. MIXTER'S OFFICE  CONTINUOUS

She looks around for the bin, finally locating it by the

side of the desk. Lisa pulls the full bag out and ties it up

before replacing it with a new bag. With her task complete,

Lisa's curiosity gets the better of her. She looks around

the office. There is a shelf full of psychology books and a

filing cabinet. Lisa touches the top drawer of the filing

cabinet and it opens.

Lisa looks at all of the names on the files and finds one

marked 'Patient X'. She reaches for it and suddenly a HAND

grabs her shoulder! A startled Lisa turns around. An orderly

in his thirties is stood in front of her. He is thin but

muscular, with slicked back hair. This is PEMBERTON.

Pemberton smiles.

Pemberton looks her up and down.

Lisa's face contorts with disgust.

Lisa tries to leave the room but Pemberton stands in her

way.

Pemberton spins around. Delaney is stood in the door way.

Pemberton laughs.

A grateful Lisa brushes past Pemberton and exits the room.

Delaney glares at Pemberton for a moment before leaving the

room. Pemberton smirks.

35.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Delaney catches up with Lisa, who is a little emotional.

Delaney laughs.

Lisa smiles.

36.TIME LAPSE: Passage from night to day and back again.

37.INT. WARD B  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

Lisa is stood on a step ladder dusting in the hallway. She

steps down and walks past a clock on the wall. The time hits

3:15am.

Lisa walks into the day room and is STARTLED to see Mrs

Hardesty sat in a chair.

No response from the catatonic pensioner.

Lisa heads for the exit. Missus Hardesty's head turns to

look at her and her mouth opens. An unnaturally deep voice

Lisa stops in her tracks. She slowly turns to face Mrs

Hardesty, who stares blankly into space.

Lisa stares at her but there is no response.

38.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Lisa walks down the hallway. At the other end of the

corridor HARDCASTLE and PEMBERTON are leaning against the

wall having a conversation. Lisa approaches them.

Hardcastle laughs.

Hardcastle walks down the hallways with Lisa. He looks back

at Pemberton with a shit eating grin.

Pemberton raises his middle finger.

39.INT. WARD B  CONTINOUS

Lisa and Hardcastle walk into the day room. The room is

empty.

Hardcastle bursts out laughing.

Hardcastle steps out into the hallway. A few moments later

Hardcastle re-enters the day room with Pemberton.

Pemberton chuckles.

The blood drains from Lisa's face.

Pemberton and Hardcastle both laugh and leave the room.

40.INT. HALLWAY  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

Lisa is sweeping in the hallway. She looks up and just

catches a glimpse of someone turn the corner up ahead.

Lisa looks around. The hallway is empty. She walks forward

and turns the corner just in time to see the young girl,

carrying a teddy bear, push open the door. She enters the

staircase that leads down to Ward X.

Lisa drops her brush and rushes forward. She throws open the

door.

41.INT. STAIRCASE  CONTINUOUS

Lisa looks down and sees the young girl at the bottom of the

staircase, heading for the entrance to Ward X.

Lisa rushes down the stairs after her.

42.INT. WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Lisa pushes open the door to Ward X. She peers down the dark

hallway. The girl is nowhere to be seen.

Lisa slowly walks down the hallway, passing the cell doors.

She can hear whispering. Lisa is drawn to the last door on

the left. She approaches with caution. Stood in front of the

door she slowly slides the hatch open and peers inside. John

Doe sits in the corner, cloaked in shadow. Lisa peers down

and in the centre of the floor, illuminated by a single

shaft of light from the small window, is a TEDDY BEAR. Lisa

slides the hatch shut and walks backwards. She is seriously

unnerved. As she steps back from the door she hears a

whispering from Kimble's cell. She edges closer to his cell

door and listens.

Palmer can be heard from the next cell. His voice is calm,

in stark comparison to Kimble's which sounds extremely

agitated.

Kimble starts to chuckle. Then he stops suddenly. Lisa leans

closer to the cell door and she hears Kimble sniffing. THUD!

Lisa jumps back as Kimble kicks the cell door.

Kimble bangs the door continuously. The racket echoes

through the corridor. Sadie soon joins in, her and Kimble

laugh maniacally as they thump on the doors. A horrified

Lisa rushes towards the exit.

43.INT. BEDROOM - LISA'S HOME  DAY

An exhausted Lisa changes out of her work clothes and into a

large t-shirt. The morning sun bursts through the window,

filling the room with an orange hue. Lisa shuts the curtains

and slides under the duvet cover into the welcome sanctuary

of her bed. Lisa drifts to sleep.

44.INT. BEDROOM  LISA'S HOME  EVENING

Lisa is sleeping fast as night falls outside. All we can

hear is the rhythm of her breathing and the gentle ticking

of the clock by her bedside table.

Suddenly her EYES snap open. We pull back and see that Lisa

is now stood in front of LARGE WOODEN DOORS. The doors open

and she steps inside.

45.INT. CHURCH  NIGHT

Lisa enters a Church full of powerful religious imagery. On

the right side of the entrance she notices a Font. A drop of

blood pierces the blessed water. As Lisa walks down the

aisle we realise that everything has slowed to a crawl and

she is moving in slow motion. White feathers cover the

aisle, bouncing around her bare feet. An open Bible rests on

the Lectern, the pages fluttering as if there is a strong

breeze blowing them. Lisa looks up at a crucifix on the

wall, the contorted face of a crucified Jesus Christ stares

at her. Blood seeps from the crown of thorns and runs down

Christ's face. As Lisa gets closer to the altar she sees a

female figure sat in the front pew. Lisa ebbs closer. The

figure turns. It's LISA'S MOTHER.

Suddenly tears of BLOOD run down Lisa's cheeks.

Lisa's mother reaches out a hand. Lisa stretches her arm out

to grab her mother's hand. Everything is in slow motion, it

seems to take Lisa forever to reach her mother's hand.

Suddenly a BLACK GLOVED HAND grabs her outstretched arm. She

turns to see a HOODED FIGURE, face shrouded in darkness,

standing next to her. A deep voice echoes around the church:

46.INT. BEDROOM  LISA'S HOME  CONTINUOUS

Lisa's eyes OPEN and she sits bolt upright. She is pale and

soaked with sweat. It takes her a few moments to compose

herself and realise that it was just a nightmare.

47.EXT. HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

The rain lashes down outside the institution.

48.INT. HALLWAY  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

Lisa is walking with Delaney.

49.INT. WARD X  LATER

The door creaks open. Lisa looks nervous. She walks in with

her mop and bucket and heads to the end of the corridor. She

begins mopping the floor. As she mops past Sadie's cell she

hears a knock on the inside of the cell door.

Lisa is creeped out but she makes an effort to ignore it.

She continues to mop the floor and starts moving past

Sadie's cell.

Lisa stops dead in her tracks. She looks back at the cell

door.

Lisa walks over to the cell door.

Lisa is horrified. She is shaking.

Tears stream down Lisa's face.

Lisa wipes away the tears and tries to compose herself.

There is a pause for a moment before an unnaturally deep

inhuman voice emerges from Sadie's throat on the other side

of the cell door:

A distraught Lisa rushes towards the exit.

50.INT. STAFF BATHROOM  CONTINUOUS

Lisa rushes into the bathroom. A wave of emotion rises to

the surface and she sobs into her hands. After a few moments

the tears subside and she takes a deep inhalation of breath,

desperately trying to compose herself. Lisa walks over to

one of the sinks. She looks at her tear stained face in the

mirror above it. Lisa turns the tap on and water rushes out.

She leans down and splashes the water on her face.

Lisa looks up and is STARTLED to see her face reflected in

the mirror as an OLD HAG! Lisa clutches her decrepit face in

horror! She closes her eyes and opens them again. Her

reflection has returned to normal. Lisa hears Sadie's

maniacal chuckle echo around the bathroom. She rushes out.

51.INT. HALLWAY  LATER

A visibly upset Lisa rushes down the hallway towards

Delaney.

Lisa checks herself.

Delaney smiles.

Delaney puts his hand on Lisa's shoulder in a comforting

manner.

Delaney smiles.

52.TIME LAPSE: Passage from night to day and back again.

53.INT. WARD X  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

Continual thumping on one of the cell doors echoes around

Ward X. Pemberton enters and walks over to Palmer' cell. He

slides open the hatch.

Palmer holds up his arm and it's been slashed open. Blood

pours from the wound.

Palmer holds up a makeshift knife.

Palmer obliges with a smile on his face. Pemberton unhooks a

truncheon from his waist belt.

Palmer willingly follows the instructions. Pemberton takes a

set of keys from his belt and unlocks the cell.

54.INT. PALMER'S CELL  CONTINUOUS

Pemberton walks in with the truncheon raised above his head.

A nervous Pemberton fumbles at his belt, trying to unhook a

pair of handcuffs. Palmer slowly starts to back into him.

Palmer moves faster. Pemberton swings for him but Palmer

ducks it and spins around, pushing Pemberton into the wall

knocking him to the floor. Palmer aims a swift and savage

stamp at Pemberton's head. His skull crushes against the

cold hard floor. Blood spatters all over the white cell.

Palmer reaches down, takes Pemberton's keys and exits the

cell.

55.EXT. WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Palmer stands at the entrance to Kimble's cell. He selects

the key marked with the corresponding cell number. Palmer

puts it into the keyhole and opens the door.

56.INT. HALLWAY  SAME TIME

Hardcastle strolls down the hallway.

57.INT. STAIRCASE  CONTINUOUS

Hardcastle looks down to the base of the staircase.

No response. Hardcastle rushes down the steps.

58.INT. WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Hardcastle enters. He sees the door of Palmer' cell open and

slams a large red button on the wall next to the entrance.

Hardcastle takes out his truncheon and cautiously approaches

Palmer' cell. Looking inside he sees Pemberton crumpled on

the floor in a pool of his own blood.

A SCREAM emerges from the next cell. Hardcastle rushes over

to Kimble's cell door. Five orderlies rush onto the Ward.

The orderlies rush to Hardcastle's side, truncheons at the

ready. Hardcastle puts a key in the lock and prepares to

open Kimble's cell.

Hardcastle turns the key and kicks open the door. They are

met by the sight of KIMBLE's corpse positioned upright on

the toilet. There is a hole in his head with part of his

BRAIN seeping out. Palmer stands next to him, with blood on

his lips and a plastic spoon in his hand. He smiles, blood

covering his teeth.

Hardcastle and the orderlies charge Palmer. He doesn't

resist as they viscously tackle him to the ground.

59.INT. HALLWAY  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  LATER

Lisa is walking down the hallway. She hears a SCREAM emerge

from one of the rooms. She puts her ear to the door and

hears the SCREAM again. Lisa kneels down and peers through

the keyhole. In a clinical white room Palmer is strapped

down on a table. His face is severely cut and bruised but he

is conscious. Four orderlies hold his arms and legs while a

fifth smears conductor on Palmer temples.

The orderly places electrodes either side of Palmer' head.

He then turns the dial on the ECT device up to full power.

Palmer SCREAMS as he violently convulses, salivating heavily

from his mouth. Suddenly the saliva turns to blood as he

bites his own tongue off. Lisa is horrified as she watches

the orderlies laugh as Palmer experiences a severe seizure.

POV Shot: Someone is approaching Lisa as she crouches in

front of the door. A hand reaches out and GRABS her by the

hair,YANKING her to her feet. Lisa SCREAMS. She turns to see

Hardcastle standing in front of her. He invades her personal

space in an intimidating manner.

Lisa walks down the hallway. Hardcastle's eyes burn into the

back of her head.

60.EXT. COFFEE SHOP  LONG ISLAND  DAY

Lisa rushes towards the entrance. She's running late.

61.INT. COFFEE SHOP  CONTINUOUS

Lisa rushes inside, nearly knocking someone's coffee out of

their hand in the process. She looks across the busy coffee

shop and there's an attractive young blonde girl waving at

her. NANCY. Lisa rushes to the table.

Lisa looks pale. Black bags under her eyes.

A waitress brings over the Latte and places it in front of

Lisa.

Lisa proceeds to put four sugars in her coffee.

A lot of things. The way they run

things for starters, the orderlies

are complete bastards.

They usually are in those places.

Some of the patients are extremely

violent.

You haven't been hurt by anyone

have you?

No, nothing like that. Some of the

things they say though... it's

pretty frightening. The weirdest

thing is... Oh I dunno, maybe it's

just me. I wonder if I'm seeing

things.

What do you mean?

I think the place might be haunted.

Either that or I'm losing my mind.

Well I wouldn't be surprised if it

was haunted.

What do you mean?

I told my father about your new

job.

Yeah?

Well, y'know they only built that

Asylum a couple of years ago?

Yeah.

He says it was built on the site of

One Twelve Ocean Avenue.

What's that?

You never heard of it?

No.

It was a famous house. Or should I

say infamous. Some guy shot his

whole family there back in the

seventies. Parents, brothers,

sisters. Wiped out his entire

family with a shotgun. Then the

next owners of the house only

lasted there about a month. They

said they were driven from the

house by evil spirits. The house

became known around the world.

That's why the recent owners sold

the land, they had enough of all

the media interest and constant

tourists. Have you seriously never

heard of the Amityville horror

house?

I vaguely remember hearing some

stuff a while ago, but I never

really took it in. I honestly

didn't realise that the hospital

was on the same land.

Yup, right on the spot where the

house was demolished. You really

think the place is haunted?

Either that or I'm going crazy.

Well you're not crazy, hun. Perhaps

the stories about hauntings at the

house were true. Maybe the house is

gone but the spirits stuck around.

Lisa smiles.

62.INT. BEDROOM  LISA'S HOME  DAY

Lisa is sitting on her bed studying a laptop. On screen she

"Ronald Joseph "Butch" DeFeo, Jr. is an American mass

murderer. He was tried and convicted for the 1974 killings

of his father, mother, two brothers and two sisters."

We slowly push in on Lisa's eyes and then:

SLOW DISSOLVE TO:

63.EXT. 112 OCEAN AVENUE  DAY  1974

RONALD DEFEO SENIOR is in the garden of his home chopping

firewood with a large axe.

TITLE CARD appears:

November 1974.

TITLE CARD dissolves.

RONALD "BUTCH" DEFEO JUNIOR approaches him.

Ronald Senior stands there, axe in hand, eye-balling his

son.

Butch storms back towards the house. Ronald Senior brings

the axe forcefully down on a piece of wood, splitting it

cleanly in half.

64.INT. APARTMENT  AMITYVILLE  DAY

There is a knock on the door. A pale looking man in his

twenties opens the door to reveal Butch standing in the door

way holding a brown paper bag.

Butch pulls a wad of money out of the paper bag.

Mick smiles.

65.INT. LIVING ROOM  APARTMENT  A LITTLE LATER

Butch uses a lighter to boil a spoon full of heroin. On his

right arm is a belt. He then loads the heroin into a

syringe. Butch tightens the belt and taps his arm. He sinks

the needle into a prominent vein and plunges the heroin into

his blood stream. His eyes sink and he lies back onto the

crusty carpet of the apartment, staring up at the ceiling.

From a bird's eye view we slowly move down towards Butch.

Suddenly a chorus of voices chatter around his ears.

66.INT. HALLWAY  112 OCEAN AVENUE  DAY

Butch puts his jacket on and prepares to open the front

door. Suddenly a large hand GRABS the back of his jacket.

Butch swipes the hand away and spins around to see his

father red with rage.

Ronald Senior grabs Butch by the scruff of the neck and

SLAMS him against the door. LOUISE DEFEO rushes in.

Ronald Senior and Butch fall to the floor and start

grappling.

Louise attempts to pull Ronald Senior off Butch. Her nails

dig into her husband's neck and draw blood. An enraged

Ronald Senior grabs his wife's arms as she starts to slap

him. Butch scrambles to his feet and rushes down the

hallway. Ronald Senior remonstrates with Louise who is still

trying to slap him.

Suddenly Ronald Senior feels cold metal pressed against the

back of his head. Louise SCREAMS and steps back. Ronald

Senior freezes. Ronald Senior slowly turns to see Butch, his

eyes bloodshot and his face emotionless, aiming a MARLIN

RIFLE at his head.

Ronald Senior's trembles with fear as he stares into his

son's cold eyes. Butch places his finger on the trigger.

Butch pulls the trigger. Louise SCREAMS. The gun JAMS.

Ronald Senior breathes a sigh of relief. Butch lowers the

gun and storms off towards the basement. Louise embraces

Ronald Senior, who appears to be in shock.

67.INT. LANDING  112 OCEAN AVENUE  LATER

Butch is quietly stalking the landing. He can hear whispers

from his parents' bedroom and cranes his neck to listen.

Ronald stands upright. Behind him is a FIGURE in a black

robe.

CUT TO BLACK

6 GUN SHOTS ring out.

68.INT. BEDROOM  LISA'S HOME  DAY

Lisa scans down the web page and looks at photos of Butch

DeFeo and his family. Suddenly she reaches a picture of 13

year old Allison and her blood runs cold. She recognises

Allison as the little girl she encountered in the hospital

hallway.

69.INT. HALLWAY  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

Lisa and Delaney are sat on a bench in the hallway drinking

coffee.

There's not much history. We've

only been open a couple of years.

No, I mean the history of the land.

You mean... what was on the land

before the hospital?

Yeah.

I know a bit about that.

One Twelve Ocean Avenue. The

Amityville haunted house.

Well I don't know that it was

haunted. Lots of people think

that's lies. I know about the kid

that killed his family. That's

true.

I didn't know about it until a

friend told me.

Really? It's a famous case.

How come you never mentioned it?

You seem spooked already. I didn't

want to make it worse.

Y'know why I'm spooked?

Because of the patients on Ward X.

It's not just that Delaney. I think

this place is haunted. In fact, I'm

sure of it.

You've seen something?

Remember I said I saw a little girl

roaming the hallways here? I know

who she is. She's one of the DeFeo

children who were killed. You ever

seen her?

No.

Honestly?

To be honest I don't believe in all

that ghost stuff.

Well I wasn't a huge believer, but

I know what I've seen.

I believe that you've seen

something. Some people are more

open to that kind of thing, y'know?

But me? I'm closed off to that

extra terrestrial stuff.

Extra terrestrial is aliens.

Whatever it's called, I don't know.

So what do you believe in? Do you

believe in God?

Serious questions tonight.

I'm just curious.

Why do you ask?

It's something I've been thinking

about. How can evil exist in a

Lisa ponders for a moment.

70.INT. LIBRARY  AMITYVILLE  DAY

Lisa enters the Library. She approaches a stuffy looking

middle aged woman with glasses perched on the end of her

nose.

Lisa follows Gloria to the back of the Library.

71.INT. LIBRARY  LATER

Lisa and Gloria are sat at a table in a secluded corner of

the Library. Various books are spread out on the table.

Gloria's demeanour instantly turns from jovial to serious.

Gloria flips through one of the books.

72.INT. STAFF ROOM  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  NIGHT

Lisa is sat with Delaney, both nursing a cup of coffee.

Delaney contemplates for a moment.

Delaney returns his attention to the cup of coffee in his

hands as Lisa disappears into her own thoughts.

73.INT. LIVING ROOM  LISA'S HOME  DAY

Lisa is sat in an armchair with a laptop resting on her

thighs. On screen she is reading a Wikipedia entry:

"The Satchem Tribe was a tribe of Native American origin

that existed in the 18th Century. They fled Massachusetts and

settled in Amityville where they were ultimately murdered

over a land dispute. The Tribe was renowned for practices in

line with Witchcraft and worshipped a God called The Dark

Master. In 2009, it emerged that a modern cult incarnation

of the tribe existed. They have adopted the traditional

beliefs of the Satchem tribe but the modern followers are

not required to be of Native American origin."

Lisa scrolls down to the References section. She clicks on a

link. A Blog appears on screen entitled The Dark Master: An

Ancient Vision for A Modern World. She reads the latest Blog

"Our time is at hand. On November 13th 2013, 6 souls will be

sacrificed so that The Dark Master's devoted followers may

be blessed with immortality. As non-believers perish on

doomsday the Master's loyal subjects shall live on and be

bestowed with great power and responsibility for the

direction of the New World."Lisa opens up the Calendar on

her computer. November 13th is the day after tomorrow. Lisa

refers back to the blog and notices the author of the last

blog post: "SisterSadie".

Lisa's mind is racing. Lisa types 'Sadie Krenwinkel' into a

Search Engine. The first result is a Wikipedia entry. Lisa

clicks on it. She reads:

"Sadie Krenwinkel is a convicted murderer and former member

of The Satchem Cult, a modern incarnation of a Native

American tribe who practiced Witchcraft in the 18th Century.

In 2009, Krenwinkel led ten members of the cult to 1005

Dennison Drive where they subsequently tortured and murdered

five individuals. One potential victim managed to escape and

lead police to Krenwinkel. At her trial in 2010, Krenwinkel

outlined the beliefs of the Satchem Cult, claiming the human

sacrifice of six individuals would have given them

immortality. As a result her lawyer submitted a plea of

insanity and Krenwinkel was subsequently sentenced to

indefinite incarceration in a mental institution."

Lisa reads further down the page and notices that the name

of the Doctor who testified to her insanity at her trial:

DOCTOR ELLIOT MIXTER.

74.EXT. HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  DAY

Lisa rushes towards the hospital.

75.INT. WARD X  DAY

Lisa enters Ward X. She walks down the hallway and bangs on

Sadie's cell door.

No response.

Lisa slides open the hatch and looks inside. The cell is

covered in lit candles with Sadie sat cross legged in the

centre of the room.

Sadie stares directly at Lisa with intense eyes. An

unnaturally deep voice escapes her lips:

Lisa slides the hatch shut. She walks over to the last door

on the left. Lisa slides the hatch open and peers in. The

resident John Doe sits in the shadows. Suddenly he sits

forward and a bright shaft of daylight illuminates his face.

Lisa is shocked to see a face she recognises from the

internet article staring at her. The face of RONALD "BUTCH"

DEFEO JUNIOUR. Lisa slams the hatch shut and backs down the

hallway, her mind racing as fast as her pulse rate.

76.INT. HALLWAY  LATER

Lisa knocks on the door to Doctor's Mixter's office.

Lisa pops her head inside.

77.INT. MIXTER'S OFFICE  CONTINUOUS

Lisa enters and sits down opposite Mixter, who is sat behind

his desk filling out a form.

Mixter chuckles.

that any of those patients have

access to the internet or any

paraphernalia.

Then someone is helping her get

access to this stuff! Someone who

works here! Please Doctor Mixter.

Just check out her cell and speak

to her. If I'm wrong about this and

it's all just her delusions then

fine. I'll accept that. But I had

to tell you. You testified at her

trial didn't you?

Yes I did. What are you implying?

Nothing. I just meant you know how

dangerous she is.

Yes, I understand how dangerous she

is and I appreciate you coming to

express your concerns. One thing

you need to bear in mind Lisa is

that there are some very sick

patients at this institution. We do

our best to help those who can be

helped but unfortunately the

patients on Ward X are beyond help.

Their personality disorders are too

advanced, their delusions are too

grandiose. I worry that perhaps you

have been rather taken in by one of

those delusions.

I know that it might sound like

that. But can you check her cell

and speak to her? Look at the blog

on the internet, see if you can

connect the IP number of the writer

with a computer here at the

hospital.

Okay look. That does take time and

resources I don't necessarily have.

But as you've come to me with a

concern of patient infraction and

potential threat of violence, I am

duty bound to investigate.

Mixter exits. Lisa leans forward and a file on the desk

catches her eye. She stands up and reaches over for it. Her

NAME is on it. Lisa opens it up. Inside is a form Committing

her to the hospital as a PATIENT. Lisa looks down and the

reason stated is PARANOID DELUSION. The date on the form is

November 13th. Today. Lisa slams the file shut and the office

door opens. She turns to see Mixter stood there with

Hardcastle and another orderly.

The orderlies approach her. Lisa lashes out but the two men

overpower her, grabbing her arms and then tripping her. She

hits the floor with a thud. Mixter produces a syringe from

behind his back.

Mixter plunges the needle into her neck. POV SHOT: Lisa

looks up at Mixter and the orderlies and we FADE TO BLACK.

78.INT. CELL  NIGHT

Lisa awakens, sat in the corner of a cold white cell. She

tries to get up before realising she's strapped into a

straight jacket. Lisa SCREAMS. The hatch opens and Mixter

peers in. The hatch then closes and the door opens. Mixter

enters.

Mixter walks over and sits on the edge of the bed.

Lisa appears confused.

Lisa becomes upset. Tears stream down her face.

Lisa sobs.

Mixter hands Lisa a red pill and a bottle of water. She

takes the pill and pops it in her mouth before taking a gulp

of water.

Mixter unties the straight jacket at the back and lifts it

off.

Mixter exits. The echo of the steel door closing

reverberates around the tiny cell. We hear Mixter's

footsteps as he walks down the hallway. Lisa's upset

demeanour disappears immediately. She spits the red pill

into the palm of her hand.

79.EXT. HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL  LATER THAT NIGHT

A storm is brewing in the dark sky above High Hopes

Hospital.

80.INT. SADIE'S CELL  WARD X - NIGHT

Sadie is sat cross legged in the centre of her cell

surrounded by candles.

81.INT. MIXTER'S OFFICE  CONTINUOUS

Mixter is in his office putting on a large hooded black

robe.

Mixter opens the cupboard and takes out a .35 caliber lever

action Marlin 336C RIFLE. The CLOCK on the wall reads

3:15am.

82.INT. PATIENT X'S CELL  WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Patient X is asleep in the corner.

The lock of the door turns. Patient X's eyes snap open. The

door opens. Mixter is stood in the doorway, dressed in a

hooded black robe. He holds the Marlin rifle in his hands.

He approaches Patient X and holds out the rifle and a box of

shells. Patient X takes them. Mixter walks out.

83.INT. WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Mixter walks down the hallway and reaches for a series of

buttons on the wall. He punches in a combination of numbers

and all of the doors unlock. Patient X is stood in the

doorway of his cell, rifle at his side. Sadie rushes out of

her cell and sees him. A broad smile spreads on her face.

She turns to Mixter.

Patient X raises the rifle and squeezes the trigger. The

BLAST rips through the back of Sadie's head, blowing half of

her face away. She is killed instantly and her lifeless

corpse drops to the floor. Mixter smiles and leaves the

Ward.

84.INT. CELL  SAME TIME

Lisa has her ear pressed to the door. She can hear GUN SHOTS

and SCREAMING. She starts to panic and rushes over to the

small window. She slams her hand into the window but the

glass doesn't break. The lock on the door snaps. Lisa slides

down the wall, terrified. The door opens and DELANEY walks

in. Lisa breathes a huge sigh of relief and rushes over,

throwing her arms around him.

85.INT. WARD X  CONTINUOUS

Patient X kicks open the door to Palmer cell. The

lobotomised Palmer is lying face down on his bed. Patient X

aims the gun and a SHOT tears through Palmer' back.

Hardcastle and another orderly rush onto the Ward. Patient X

takes aim and shoots Hardcastle in the chest, killing him

instantly. The other orderly turns to run and is SHOT in the

leg.

86.INT. WARD B  SAME TIME

Delaney and Lisa run through the Ward. They turn a corner

and are suddenly confronted by a large group of patients in

white gowns.

Delaney and Lisa run back the other way and turn the corner.

Two orderlies, brandishing truncheons, are approaching.

The orderlies turn the corner and see the large group. The

orderlies look at each other, fear in their eyes. They turn

to run but the patients overpower them in a flash, grabbing

and scratching, deep wounds tearing into their skin. Delaney

and Lisa look on as the helpless orderlies SCREAM.

Delaney grabs Lisa and they run down the hallway, as the

patients beat the orderlies with their own truncheons.

87.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Lisa and Delaney rush down the hallway. They turn a corner

and are stopped in their tracks by the GHOST of ALLISON

DEFEO stood in the centre of the hallway clutching a teddy

bear. She has a HUGE bullet hole in the centre of her

forehead, blood dripping down her face.

CRASH! A door at the other end of the hallway is kicked

open. Patient X bursts through and aims the rifle. Lisa and

Delaney rush back down the hallway. A BULLET HITS the wall

just as they turn into an open doorway.

88.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Lisa and Delaney are running through the hallway. They burst

through a door.

89.INT. SHOWER ROOM  CONTINUOUS

Lisa and Delaney find themselves in the shower room. Mould

covers the walls and all of the showers are on, gushing

dirty water. They spot another door on the other side of the

shower room but blocking their path to it is a thin middle

aged man in a white vest and white shorts, facing the wall.

He is whispering to himself. Lisa and Delaney stop.

The man turns around. His face is weathered and his eyes are

wild and bloodshot.

Delaney grabs Lisa and they start ebbing past the man

towards the door. The man is getting increasingly more

agitated, scratching at his face.

The man reaches into the pocket of his shorts and produces a

scalpel.

The man STABS his cheek with the scalpel. Lisa SCREAMS! The

man drags the scalpel around his face in one continuous

motion, blood seeping from the circular gash. As Lisa and

Delaney watch on in horror the man RIPS the skin off his

face, exposing muscles and veins. His white vest and shorts

are now saturated with blood. The man sighs with relief.

A horrified Lisa and Delaney rush towards the door and BURST

through it.

90.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Delaney and Lisa sprint down the hallway as GUNSHOTS ring

out in the distance.

91.INT. RECEPTION AREA- CONTINUOUS

Delaney and Lisa rush towards the main doors. They're

locked. Delaney fumbles for a set of keys.

Delaney finds the right key. He checks the lock and realises

that a key has been snapped off in it.

Delaney rushes to the reception desk and grabs a chair. He

rushes over to a window next to the door and raises the

chair. BANG! A bullet tears through his back and exits

through his chest with an explosion of blood. Lisa SCREAMS!

Delaney drops to his knees and Lisa rushes to his side.

Patient X loads fresh cartridges in the rifle. Delaney is

DEAD. Lisa runs down the hallway. Patient X takes aim. Just

as Lisa bursts through a door, a bullet blasts apart one

side of the frame.

92.INT. WARD B  CONTINUOUS

Lisa runs through Ward B.

LISA'S POV  Patient X bursts through the door and pursues

her. Lisa keeps running as Patient X aims the gun.

Lisa looks back just as he fires and the BULLET narrowly

misses her, the force sending her crashing into a stack of

chairs. Her leg catches on the chairs and she falls to the

ground. Lisa crawls towards a door. Hauling herself up she

manages to turn the handle and the door swings open.

LISA'S POV  Patient X stands just yards away, attempting to

get a steady clean shot at Lisa. He squeezes off the trigger

just as she falls through the door, the SHOT blowing the

door apart.

93.INT. HALLWAY  CONTINUOUS

Lisa limps down the hallway. She tries the handles of a door

but it's locked. She tries another-also locked. Lisa

finally finds a door that is open and she rushes through.

94.INT.STAFF ROOM  CONTINUOUS

Lisa enters a small staff room. She SLAMS the door behind

her. She clicks the lock. Lisa steps back from the door. She

JUMPS as Patient X POUNDS on the door from the other side.

Lisa looks around for a weapon. She limps toward the cutlery

drawer below a sink. She rustles inside and finds a large

butcher knife. Suddenly the door EXPLODES, a large hole

blown through the middle of it by the GUN SHOT. Patient X

reaches through, groping for the lock. Lisa reaches a large

window in the room. She tries to lift the window. After an

unsuccessful attempt at opening it she realises the window

is nailed down.

Patient X reaches for the lock. Lisa dashes to the storage

cupboard and ducks inside.

95.INT. STORAGE CUPBOARD  CONTINUOUS

Lisa pulls the door shut and falls to the floor of the dark

interior. Lisa faces the door, bracing herself with the

knife held upwards. Everything is quiet. Suddenly the door

SHAKES as Patient X THUMPS on it. The door cracks as Patient

X SMASHES against it. Lisa crouches down with the knife at

the ready.

The gun BLOWS a HOLE right through the door. Patient X leans

through the hole, peering down at Lisa crouched on the

floor. He aims the gun through the hole and prepares to

fire. Lisa brandishes the knife and thrusts it forward with

all her might. The blade RIPS through Patient X's right eye.

He SCREAMS and drops the gun in the cupboard before

stumbling backwards into the staff room. Patient X clasps

his hands to his eye which is now gushing with blood. Lisa

grabs the gun and stands up. Patient X looks at her with his

remaining eye. Lisa aims the rifle through the hole in the

door.

BANG! The shot gun BLASTS a hole through Patient X's chest,

blood splatters over Lisa. Suddenly a WHITE LIGHT fills the

room and ALLISON DEFEO materialises. She is dressed in a

clean white dress, her angelic complexion bears no wounds.

Allison takes the hand of PATIENT X's corpse. The WHITE

LIGHT swarms over Patient X's body and he rises to his feet.

His head is now intact and he is dressed in a white robe. He

looks at Allison and they share a peaceful smile. Allison

walks with Patient X through a doorway filled with a

blinding WHITE LIGHT. They disappear and the light slowly

dissipates.

96.INT. HALLWAY  HIGH HOPES HOSPITAL - LATER

Lisa, covered in blood, walks through the hallway with the

rifle by her side. She reaches the door to Doctor Mixter's

office and kicks it open. Mixter is sat behind his desk, now

dressed in his usual shirt and tie. Lisa aims the gun at

Mixter whose hands are beneath the table.

INSERT SHOT: Mixter presses a red button beneath the desk.

Mixter raises his hands.

Lisa enters, kicking the door shut behind her.

97.INT. MIXTER'S OFFICE  CONTINUOUS

Mixter is very calm. Lisa is trembling, the rifle visibly

shaking in her hands as she aims it at Mixter's head.

Suddenly SIRENS can be heard outside. The screeching of car

wheels. Mixter smiles. Lisa, still holding the gun at

Mixter, shuffles over to the window and peers through the

blinds. The car park is full of police cars. A dozen armed

police officers rush towards the building. Lisa looks back

to see Mixter chuckling.

Outside they hear the police rushing down the hallway.

Lisa, her teeth clenched, moves forward and places the

business end of the rifle against Mixter's temple.

Tears stream down Lisa's face. She's crumbling.

Lisa HITS Mixter over the head with the butt of the rifle.

He falls to the ground and looks up at a crazed Lisa.

Lisa aims the rifle at Mixter's face. Suddenly the police

burst in. Lisa spins around, the rifle still in her hands.

POLICE OPEN FIRE! Her body is riddled with BULLETS and she

falls to the floor in a blood soaked heap.

FADE TO BLACK

TITLE CARD against BLACK SCREEN appears:

ONE YEAR LATER

TITLE CARD dissolves.

98.INT. TELEVISION STUDIO

A glamorous woman addresses the camera.

Mixter is sat opposite, in a very expensive suit.

Mixter looks straight into the camera and smiles.

CUT TO BLACK

The sound of children singing the nursery rhyme "Ring Around

a Rosie" in a slow, haunting manner echoes around our ears.

THE END.

