This is Ash, mid twenties, square jaw firmly set and a pair of

haunted eyes which dart about quickly in fear. Ash speaks to

the CAMERA with urgency:

nestled in a dark forest. Through the window, we see the tiny

figure of Ash picking up a book from a desk.

Ash flips through the pages from the BOOK OF THE DEAD.

inscribed on the pages.  Illustrations of demonic faces with

white eyes.

We take the point of view of a wind-like demon, swooping low

through the woods toward the cabin.  CAMERA rips through the

cabin door and comes upon a SCREAMING Ash.

twisting into a claw, before the flashing thunder clouds.

ASH severs his hand from his wrist with the chainsaw.

sweep past the moon.

recites the incantation from the Necronomicon.

The Time vortex is created.  Trees and a 1973 Delta 88

Oldsmobile are sucked up into the funnel cloud.

Ash, now armed with shotgun and chainsaw, is swallowed by the

funnel-cloud of the Time vortex.

Ash is rocketing through a funnel of swirling clouds.  He is

swept away from us, hand over foot, through the dark void of

Time.

swirls through blackness as a chorus of women's voices build

to eerie crescendo, from a musical note to a SCREAM.  The smoke

swirls, pulls in upon itself, like a thing alive, and forms the

words:

The smoke is wisked away, then reforms as...

The title billows past CAMERA REVEALING...

A GRANDFATHER CLOCK

its hands winding backwards at an insane rate, spins angrily

past, revealing other debris that has been swept up into this

funnel cloud. Tumbling weightless through this void we find...

He SCREAMS but there is no sound. No scream. Only the steady

BEATING of his heart.

He shields his eyes from a sudden bright light.  The funnel

cloud electrifies.

RIPS at the fabric of Time.

All is quiet.  Then, an electrical disturbance in the shape of

a human body flashes briefly and is gone.  A moment latter, Ash

appears and tumbles from the sky, falling past CAMERA.

ASH falls to the dust.  His double barrelled shotgun lands

beside him.  The '73 Oldsmobile comes CRASHING to the ground

a moment later.

looks up from the dust to behold...

in 12th century armor ride up over a hill.  They halt before

Ash.

thrusts his longsword into the air, shouting:

stares in confusion at the strange medieval figures.

join in the chant and hail Ash, but suddenly stop as...

the muscular commander of the group, gallops his horse into

frame, followed by FOUR HORSEMEN who are his lieutenants. Arthur

lifts his iron visor and evaluates Ash.

The Delta 88 Oldsmobile. The chainsaw, strapped to Ash's back.

The handless stump of Ash's right arm.  The Shotgun.

waves a shaky hand.

An elderly man, in a long black cloak, steps forward.

Brings his sword down across Ash's chest. Ash cries out in pain

as...

is cut. A thin red gash.

and CAMERA PANS to four prisoners bound in iron shackles.

charges his horse at Ash. But he is met with the wooden stock

of Ash's shotgun as it swings into frame, cracking against his

jaw.

He tumbles from the horse.

leaps atop Gold Tooth's horse and jerks the reigns.

rears up, kicking it's hooves into the air.

gallops off as Warrior #2 runs at him. Ash kicks him in the face

as he gallops past.  The Warrior is sent reeling.

galloping over a hill.  He is almost thrown by the horse, but

manages to hang on for dear life.

grasping at the side of the horse, hoping to find some purchase.

he rides past CAMERA, almost falling from the horse.

unsheathe their broadswords and gallop after Ash. The remaining

Warriors watch for sport.

They are gaining an Ash.

glances behind him.

They diverge to either side of CAMERA.

whips his horse.

rides up alongside Ash and swings his Broadsword.

WHOOSH!!!

ducks the blade.

rides up alongside Ash's other flank.  He swings and lands the

flat part of his blade along Ash's back.

THUNK!

ducks as the first horseman swings his blade again.

WHOOSH!

ASH looks left...

winds up for another blow.

yanks back upon his horse's reigns.

running side by side. Ash's horse drops back suddenly.

swings.

slams the First Horseman across the face.

is knocked from his steed.

is moving fast when he hits the ground. His armored form tumbles

end over end in the dust, clanging to a halt against a rock.

turns around and gallops back toward Ash.

ride at one another.

swinging his Broadsword.

He inserts the stump of his right arm into the female end of

his chainsaw arm bracket.

FOOMP!  He twists his stump and the chainsaw bracket locks into

place.  CLINK!

He thrusts his chainsaw arm outward, pulling on the starter

cord; PUTT-PUTT-PUTT... The engine won't turn over.  He curses

and yanks again.

draws close. He leans from his horse and swings his Broadsword

mightily.  The flat portion of the blade connects. THUNK!

is knocked from his steed.  He tumbles to the dust, narrowly

escaping his own horse's hooves.

rolls to his feet and spins to the sound of approaching hooves!

charges and swings his broadsword.

raises his chainsaw.  CLINK!  He deflects the blow. Ash swings

the chainsaw in a roundhouse motion, clipping the Second

Horseman as he rides past.

is knocked from his horse.

bounces along the rocky ground, kicking up dust.

slams against the back of Ash's skull.

crumples.  He looks up in pain to...

above him. The sun over his shoulder.

gallop up, dismount and surround Ash with swords drawn.

The warriors surge upon Ash. His sawed-off shotgun and chainsaw

are taken from him.

secure Ash to a set of iron shackles that painfully extend his

arms. A collar forces his neck upward.

prods Ash along with a rod attached to his spiked iron collar.

The Warriors gallop off, forcing Ash and the other prisoners

to run alongside them.

Picks up the chainsaw and sawed off shotgun from the dust.  He

is troubled by the strange objects. Sunlight glints off the

blade of the chainsaw, blinding the CAMERA.

blazing in the sky above the wasteland.

bound in his iron shackles, whipped by Gold Tooth, who rides

alongside him.

CAMERA PANS along the line of Arthur and his horsemen, to find

a 12TH CENTURY BATTLE CASTLE built on the edge of a great cliff.

A drawbridge is lowered.  Arthur's warriors ride over it.

shackled alongside other prisoners, is prodded inside the castle

walls.

SHEILA

a striking, blonde haired maiden, rushes into frame. She

searches the faces of Arthur's warriors and grows concerned.

She pushes through a crowd of villagers and calls up to Arthur

atop his horse.

SHEILA

Her face does not immediately register the grief.  She attempts

to step forward but stumbles.  She steadies herself against the

stone wall. Her eyes harden as she sees the first of the

shackled prisoners: a semi-conscious Ash.

She flushes with anger and races up to him. She spits and kicks

at him as he's dragged along.

restrain her.

SHEILA

cries as the Village Women attempt to soothe her.

halt. Iron keys rattle. The shackles are unlocked. Ash and the

prisoners rub their reddened wrists. They are pushed at

swordpoint towards a circular iron grate that sits atop the

ground. This is THE PIT.

looks to the jeering villagers that surround the pit, wondering

what they have in store for him.

stares at him in hatred.

eyes Ash curiously.  This is Duke Henry the Red.

address the doomed men:

crank a massive wench.  Chains tighten and the heavy iron lid

slides back, revealing a dark hole.  The Pit.

a echoed wailing rises up.

stiffen in fear.

She jams a meat pie into her mouth and cheers excitedly as

CAMERA PANS TO...

as he's thrown down into the pit.  He disappears into the

blackness.

watching with disbelief.  We hear the warrior's echoed cry of

terror, then a SPLASH as he hits bottom.

looking down into the blackness we hear:

The sound of ripping and scratching.  The SHRIEK of terror is

cut short as...

A GEYSER OF BLOOD

erupts upward from the pit. Then silence.

is frozen in fear.

ASH'S TERRIFIED GAZE

jerks from the pit to...

making a break for it!  He's past the guards, heading for the open

drawbridge.

spot him and fire arrows.

PING!  PING!

They bounce off the Warrior's armor.  He's makes it to the open

drawbridge when...

pulls back a iron arrow in his crossbow.  ZING!  He lets it fly.

CAMERA SWISH PANS with arrow...

The iron arrow punctures the Warrior's armor, pegging him to

a wooden post.  He dies standing.

Cheers.  They turn their attention to the remaining prisoners:

CAMERA PANS from their bloodthirsty faces to the next prisoner

in line...

turns to Arthur and in a desperate, cowardly plea:

He spins to Duke Henry the Red.

grab Ash and shove him into the pit.

tumbles down into the pit.  He lands in a STEAMING pool of foul

water at the pit's bottom.  He stands and coughs out a mouthful

of the rancid water. He looks about.

UNDERGROUND CAVERNS disappear into the blackness.

spins to a small sound.

Nothing.  Just the mist rising from the water.

shifts his glance again.

rounds a corner and disappears from sight.

doesn't notice the misty water behind him beginning to stir.

Bubbles. A hand emerges. Silently, a pair of bone white eyes

break the surface.

spins... but there's nothing there.  As he turns back around,

he is confronted by...

A FEMALE EVIL DEAD

It's rotted corpse rockets up from the water inches from Ash's

face!

Putrid water drains from it's empty eye sockets and mouth. It

jerks like a marionette as it advances.

and backs against the steep rock wall of the pit.  He tries to

scale the steep face. He gets one foot up.

clutches Ash's ankle and yanks him back down.

He falls away from the wall, his arms flailing.

hoot and cheer for Ash to be devoured.

grabs Ash, and begins hammering him with her rotted fists.

shouts for Ash's death.

The Deadite's fist enters frame, slugging Ash.

is knocked back into a shallow pool of steaming water.

races toward Ash, leaps into the air and comes down with a

kneedrop onto Ash's stomach.

cries out in pain.

cross to form a scissor lock around the Deadite's throat.  He

flips the beast.

rides into the castle, dismounts and pushes through the crowd

with a bundle wrapped in cloth.

grabs Ash by the throat.

is thrown against the rock wall of the pit.

advances.

shouts down at Ash.

trying to hear what the Wiseman is saying. His head jolts

backward, barely avoiding the beast's wild swing. Ash squints

to discern Wiseman John throwing something down to him: an

object falling at him through the glare above.

tumbling downward.  Blinding beams of sunlight bouncing off its

blade of steel.  Ash's Excalibur!

summons his strength and leaps upward.

Tumbling downward...

ascending, his teeth gritted, every muscle straining, he soars

past CAMERA.

Ash rising up through frame to meet the falling saw.

snags the chainsaw, locking in onto his wrist bracket.CLICK!

He lands on his feet, in the path of the approaching beast.

He thrusts out his chainsaw arm, yanking the starter cord and...

VERRROOOOOOM!!

gasp at the ROAR of the chainsaw.  Blue exhaust billows up from

the pit.

lunges at Ash.

Buzzzzz!!

is splattered with black bile.

flies upward, past the face of the bewildered beast.

as it ascends, Ash and the Deadite grow smaller below.

flies up into frame and latches onto the face of a drunken

spectator. It's fingers dig into the eyes and nose. He shrieks

and flails about, into the screaming crowd. A Warrior tears the

hand free from his face, tossing it back down into the pit.

raises the chainsaw blade and neatly bisects the falling deadite

hand.  He spins and with a roundhouse blow...

Ash decapitates the beast.

stop cheering from the Deadite. They're starting to like this

guy's guts and style.

of the beast sink beneath the murky waters of the pit.

climbs the steep wall of the pit when a SECOND DEADITE emerges

from the earthen wall before him.

slams the butt end of the chainsaw into the beast, knocking it

back into the water.

gasp as...

THUMP!

comes up, over the edge of the pit.  Followed by... THUMP!  Ash's

bloody hand.  Then his bruised face.  Covered in the black blood

of the Deadites. He crawls to his feet.

Ash tuns to the crowd, his list clenched.

look at Ash stupidly. Ash shoves him.

Gold Tooth and the others give him a wide berth. Ash calls out

to Henry.

quickly mount horses.

slaps Henry's horse.

parts allowing...

to gallop off toward the open drawbridge and freedom.

stares at Ash with hatred.

removes his sawed off shotgun from Wiseman John's horse and

turns to Arthur, then the crowd.

pointing the barrel just past Arthur. He, but no one else, has

spotted the surviving Second Deadite crawling up from the pit

on the forgotten chain.

The crowds gasp is cut short by....BLAMMITY-BLAM!

The shotgun belches flame. The blast cuts the chain, leaving

the Deadite teetering at the pit's edge.

BLAMMITY-BLAM!

The second shot blows the beast into a backflip, sending it

summersaulting down into the pit.

echoes off the mountains like distant thunder.

look to Ash in reverence.

twirls the shotgun about western style: WHOOSH, WHOOSH,

WHOOSH...  and holsters it.

fly from a barren tree.

It prowls, skimming the surface of the ground, moving swiftly

past rocks and over the crest of a hill revealing...

A massive grouping of freestanding rectangular stones, each

twenty feet tall.  The remains of an ancient temple.  In the

center of the ruins there burns a roaring bonfire.  As old Woman

stirs a cauldron atop the flames.  Nearby, Arthur converses with

his four Lieutenants.

CLOSE UP - ASH

opens his mouth to allow a spoonful of food to enter.  No sooner

has he swallowed then a piece of fruit is offered.  He waves

it away with a satisfied burp and turns to drink from a goblet

on wine, brought to his lips by a female hand.

sits across the flames from Arthur and his men.  She bandages

Ash's wounds.

is dresses in a revealing tunic. She looks good.

She touches Ash's hand. Ash turns away

He spits out a mouthful of grape seeds.

She stares deeply into his eyes.

approach.  They sit in tall stone chairs across the fire from

Ash.

A sudden gust of wind whips up the flames of the fire.

around the fire begin to snarl and fight.

turn to see...

now standing too close to the fire.  Her robes ignites.  She does

not respond as flames sweep up her body. She continues to stir

the caldron.

His haw drops.  He slowly stands as...

spins sharply to him.  Her voice changes as she SHRIEKS;

Her eyes are bone white.  She is POSSESSED by the dark spirit.

Her burning body is violently jerked about in the air by

invisible hands. Her blackened lips pull back in a wild animal

snarl. With two voice at once;

collapses. Her face turned away from the Wisemen as it lays in

the dust.

Unseen by all, her bone white eyes flare open!  A nasty grin forms

on her face as she lies in the dust. Behind her, the Wisemen

approach.

kneels and reaches for her.

clutches Wiseman John, not allowing him to touch her.

awakens from her false slumber with a terrible BARK.  In a

frenzy she hurls WISEMAN JOHN into the bonfire. He SCREAMS and

rolls in the dust, extinguishing the flames.

With her great strength, the Possessed Woman pushes upon one

of the giant stone archways. It topples over, crushing two

warriors beneath it.

topples the next stone.

BOOM!

Which topples the next, which sets off a chain reaction.

BOOM!  BOOM!

Like giant dominoes, they fall.

watches the spectacle in horror as he sees...

The gigantic falling stones coming right at SHEILA!

She SCREAMS!

coming toward CAMERA.

BOOM!  BOOM!  BOOM!

does a flying leap and tackles SHEILA, knocking her out of the

stone's deadly path.

rolls across the dusty stone courtyard.

rolls into frame and glances up to see...

rushing through the air at him with a SHRIEK!

latches onto Ash like an iron trap, knocking them both to the

ground.

rolls the Possessed Woman over, and into the path of...

The falling, gigantic domino-like stones.

BOOM!  BOOM!  BOOM!

THE POSSESSES WOMAN

SHRIEKS in agony as... SMASH!  The multi-ton stone crushes her

legs to paste.  Her legs are pinned but still she battles on,

clutching Ash about his throat!

gasps for breath as he reaches behind him, into the flames of

the fire, his fingers groping for a weapon.

Her blackened lips pull back and her mouth opens to an

impossibly large size, like a snake about to eat an egg.

grasps a flaming log with his bare hands and rams it down the

monster's oversized throat.  She chokes.

grab the beast and pull it off of Ash.  Arthur comes to meet

them.  He carries a double-bladed battle axe.

vomits out the flaming log, taking off a man's head.

CHOP!

is brought down upon her throat.  The possessed body flails and

spasm beneath the Warrior's grip.

rolls, and comes to a halt at Ash's feet.  It's eyes pop open!

grabs the laughing head and tosses it into the darkness.  The

head sails away as the laughter receded.

He considers.

Ash and the blacksmith step into the shop.

points to the hand piece on a hanging suit of battle armor.

pounds upon the hand armor, modifying it.

knits a grey woolen garment as she watches Ash.

THE BLACKSMITH

attaches the shock absorber spring to the iron hand.

tightens the tension on the shock absorber springs with a

ratchet like device.

extends his arm triggering the tightly wound spring.

WHOOSH!  CLANG!

gasps.

SNAPS open with great force.

WHOOSH CLANG!

ASH'S SPRING DRIVEN HAND

clenches closed with such great power, that it bends a iron

goblet.

He studies his new hand. It will do nicely.

ASH

stares over the castle wall to the foreboding wasteland with

apprehension.  The wind blows upon his hair. Sheila appears

behind him. She drapes a grey garment over Ash. A magnificent

cape. Ash draws her body close to his. He wraps the cape around

her.  Together they stare off into the night, then turn to one

another and kiss.

Arthur's castle in the distance.  In the foreground, five men

on horseback appear over a ridge, thundering toward us. Their

long wool capes billowing up behind them in the wind.

Arthur and Wiseman John ride, flanked by two of Arthur's

Warriors.  CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL...

ASH

He wears an iron breastplate with the insignia of Arthur's army

that compliments his new spring-powered iron hand.  His chainsaw

juts from it's saddle holster on the horse's back.  Ash's cape

billows as he rides.

The Horsemen wind down a trail.  Suddenly the horses rear up.

The men gain control of the frightened steeds.

ARTHUR

points to...

It disappears abruptly into a swirling wall of mist that emits

an eerie whistling.

anxiously eyes the wall of swirling mist.

finish placing saddlebags of water and food onto...

ASH'S HORSE

which nervously pounds the earth with it's hooves.

moves close to Ash.

Ash rears up on his horse and gallops into the mist

watch as Ash disappears.

The sound of THUNDEROUS HOOFS.  A form materializes out of the

fog:  It is Ash.

He whips the horse.

He gallops past.  CAMERA PANS as he disappears into the thick

fog.

ASH

rides out of the wall of mist. He finds himself on a trail

leading into a thick forest.

LONG SHOT - ASH

rides slowly on through the darkening woods.

He hears a sound and look to...

A branch SCRAPING against the bark of a tree.

hears a woman's soft laughter.  He glance to...

and nothing more.

powers through the woods toward Ash.

kick his steed and bolts.

sweeps over the forest floor, gaining velocity.

frantically weaves his horse around storm felled trees which

jut from the ground.

rips through the trees, splintering them to toothpicks.  It

burrows underground, and resurfaces, always closing upon Ash.

jerks upon the reins and his steed leaps a fallen tree.  He

gracefully leaps a second tree.  But as he leaps over the third,

he is ripped off the horse by a low branch.  He falls hard to

the mud as the horse gallops off.

He groggily stands and stumbles onward.

follows Ash down a wooded trail.

running for...

a grain storage house in the clearing ahead.

comes upon the shed's door.  Locked.  He heaves his body against

it but it won't give.

A log, that serves as the door's bolt, holds fast.

emerges from over the ridge.

unscrews his iron hand and holsters it.  He slings the chainsaw

from his shoulder and snaps it onto his stump bracket.  Click.

He threads the chainsaw starter cord through the V-SHAPED SLOT

that extends from his breastplate. CLICK.  He thrusts out his

arm and the chainsaw ROARS to life!

The blade bites into the log that bolts the door.

draws closer.

CLOSE ON CHAINSAW BLADE

halfway through the log.  Sawdust flies.

The chainsaw dies. He jerks out his arm to restart it. Putt.

Putt.

draws closer.

delivers a mighty kick to the door.

ANGLE ON DOOR

The partially cut log gives way.  Ash tumbles into the storage

shed. He slams the door shut and slides the remainder of the

log across the latch, re-bolting it.

Hammers at the door of the Shed.

BANG!

A terrified Ash braces his back against the door.

BANG!

Earth shaking in its intensity. The planks of the door shudder

behind Ash.

It cracks.

presses himself against the door for all he's worth, praying

that whatever it out there, won't get in.

BANG!  Splinters fly.

BOOM!  The crack widens.

behind Ash begins to buckle beneath the hammering blows.

begins to SCREAM.  And the BANGING halts.

All is quiet.  Ash hugs the door. Shaking in the silence.  And

that's when it hits.  LIKE A LOCOMOTIVE!

Ash and the door he braces are blasted away from the wall of

the Shed as the Evil Force brings it's tremendous power to bare.

TRACKING WITH ASH AND THE DOOR

as they are swept up at super speed in the grip of the Evil

Force.  Ash is seen rocketing through the long hallway of the

Shed, spinning head over heels.  Ash rips through other doors,

taking them with him. Ash is now sandwiched between two doors

as he flies through the air.

The roof of the shed ripples, sending tiles and wood beams

flying as the EVIL FORCE surges through the shed like a tidal

wave.

It blows out from the place in a flying stack along with the

other doors.  The flying doors slam against a tree and fall to

the ground in a stack.

with Ash out of sight, glides forward, into the woods.

LOOKING DOWN UPON - THE STACKS OF DOORS.

All is quiet.  We hear the sound of a bolt moving. The doorknob

turns slightly.  The door swings upward and opens... revealing

a somewhat flattened Ash who picks his groggy and bruised self

up.

He beholds...

An empty place of stone and wood.  Driven by the wind, the

Mill's giant grinding wheel slowly turns with a squeak.

ASH

enters the Mill.

The place is quiet. Ash slumps down against a wall to catch his

breath.

Shadows lengthen on the floor and stretch across the walls.

peers through the window.

a gigantic ball of fire as it sets behind the Mill.  The wind

kicks up.

ASH

listens as the cabin CREAKS like an old ship beneath the force

of the gale.

on the window quietly KNOCK.  Ash shivers and rubs his arms for

warmth.

looks about the Mill and spots an iron stove.

pours out of Ash's chainsaw over some logs in the stove's belly.

lights the fire with his Zippo lighter and huddles near the

flame for warmth.

He turns to a tiny sound.

behind him, through the window, a large gnarled hand sweeps

past.

spins, raises his shotgun and fires.

BLAMITY-BLAM!

The window is ripped away in a shower of glass.

Only the night woods.  The "gnarled hand" comes back, sweeping

down in front of the broken window, but it's revealed to be just

a tree branch swaying in the wind.

reloads. He moves to the front door and peers out through a

crack.

through the crack in the door.

CAMERA pushes through the crack to the woods beyond.  There is

movement.

The tiny figure of Ash steps from the Mill.

He sweeps the barrel of the shotgun toward the sound of sticks

breaking.

It rears up on it's hind legs. It's front hoofs come down toward

Ash.

leaps aside just in time.

snags the horse's reigns.

The horse calms.  Ash ties it to a tree, patting it's head. A

shadow passes behind him. He turns toward the Mill.

He sees am image of himself inside the Mill. Peering out.

ASH

stares in disbelief, then the wind slams the front door of the

Mill, halting Ash's view. Ash races for the Mill.

ASH

races through the door and toward CAMERA when...SMASH...Ash's

reflection shatters. He's run into a mirror. Shivering, he picks

himself up from the pile of broken glass. He moves to the

fireplace and hunches before the flames, CAMERA PANS TO....

Each piece of mirror reflects an image of Ash.  From the eight

pieces of mirror spring...

Two inch high versions of himself.  They leap from the mirror

fragments and land on the floor.

is unaware of them as he kneels close to the fire.

grab a discarded dinner fork.  Like men on a battering ram, they

race forward to jam it into Ash's buttocks.

SCREAMS in agony and jerks forward, banging his head into the

stove pipe.

lift the barrel of the shotgun in Ash's direction.  Another

leaps upon the shotgun's trigger. BOOM!

barely dives away from the blast the would have taken his head

off.

SHRIEK with uncontrollable laughter.  They jump away from the

shotgun and scurry off across the floor.

pulls the fork from his buttocks and heaves it.

is running for his life, as fast as his tiny legs will carry

him.

a giant projectile as it ROARS AT CAMERA. PAN with it as it

WHOOSHES past.

FA-THONG!

skewers tiny Ash #1 to the wooden wall of the mill.

stumbles over a broom handle that has been thrust out in front

of him by other tiny ASHES.  His head slams into a stove pipe.

He crumples.  He lands with his cheek pressed against the hot

stove.  SSSSSSssss.  He pries his face loose with a spatula.

is pushed off a high shelf.

CLANG!

and spills slippery grease about the floor.

with an upside-down bucket on his head, slips and falls, back

and forth on the grease.  He stands and tries to dislodge the

bucket.  He trips over the broom handle, again thrust in his

path.  He falls backward, onto a crochet basket with knitting

needles jutting from it.

SCREAMS and jerks upward, slamming his bucket head into the

stove pipe.  CLANG!  Ash rips the bucket from his head then yanks

the needles from his buttocks.  He looks about for the little

imps.

crouching behind a log attempting to hide.  BUT...

has seen him.  He "accidentally" elbows the log and Tiny Ash

#2 into the stove's fire.

is burned alive.

glances downward at the pitter patter sound of tiny feet.

is dashing across the open expanse of floor.  Ash's gigantic

foot comes down to crush the little man.  Tiny Ash #3 raises

a rusty nail into the path of the descending foot.

RIP!!

through Ash's shoe.

jerks his leg upward in pain.  Ash dances about the place

hopping on one foot, HOWLING. He strays into the greasy area

of the floor and stumbles over the broomstick again thrust in

his path, swung there by Tiny ASHES #6, #7 and #8. He almost

regains his balance when he strays into the oil patch, falls,

and hits his head on the stone floor. BLACKNESS.

awakens on the floor of the Mill, like Gulliver he is bound with

tiny ropes.  Directly above him, on the edge of a table...

suspend Tiny Ash #6 by his legs.

stand atop Ash's face.  They push from either side of his

nostrils, plugging his nose.  Ash's mouth opens as he gasps for

air.  As he inhales...

is released.

He free falls for a moment, then the tiny body arcing to form

a perfect swam dive, plunges down into Ash's opened throat.

inhales the living beast whole.  He chokes violently.  He breaks

his bonds an he hacks for breath.  He puts his finger down his

throat, trying to make himself vomit up the little man, to no

avail.

He looks about to crush some of the little ASHES but they are

gone.  He places his hand on his stomach and dizzily stumbles

to a chair.  He goes pale.

He stands indignant but double over in sudden pain.

He grabs the hot kettle from the stove and pours the scalding

contents painfully down his throat.  He sets down the kettle

and waits for a moment.  A tiny SCREAM emits from Ash's stomach

ASH

emits a bark of LAUGHTER. He clutches as his chest.  Then his

arm.  He rips back his shirt sleeve.

We can see the outline of Tiny Ash #6's body squirming down

Ash's arm, just beneath the skin.

watches in horror as...

squirms down his wrist and disappears into his iron hand.  The

Iron hand snaps open and closes uncontrollably. The possessed

iron hand swings at him.

connects with an uppercut that knocks Ash out of frame.

lands next to an iron vice. He reaches for the EVIL HAND.  But

the hand has grabbed a mallet that BONK-BONKS him on the head.

Ash is groggy as he is grabbed by the hair and yanked down into

the opened vice.

cranks the vice's handle.

tightens around Ash's head.  Trapped, he looks to...

rummaging through a wooden toolbox.  It comes upon a crude wooden

punch.

stabs rapidly at Ash's good hand.  But Ash expertly dodges each

stab with an opening of the fingers or a closing of the thumb

is super fast motion.

with is head still wedged in the vice.

has entered frame and clamps down upon Ash's nose.  He emits

a nasal SCREAM and shakes the pliers loose.

THE PAIR OF IRON PLIERS

dip into Ash's mouth and clamps down upon a back molar.

YANK!

jerks his rear MOLAR from his head and holds up the tooth for

his inspection.  It sets the tooth down nearly in front of him.

The Evil hand forms a fist and crushes the tooth to dust.  It

scurries from view.

struggling in the grip of the vice.

grabs a red hot fireplace poker from the fire.

HIS EVIL HAND

raises a red hot fireplace poker and presses it against the

right half of his body.

SSSSsssssssss!

jerks his head free from the vice with a SCREAM.  He holds up

his iron hand.  It's back to normal.  Again under his control.

But he halts abruptly as he feels a strange sensation: His

shoulder itches.  He scratches it.  The Itch grows.  It itches

madly.  He rips back his shirt.  Upon his shoulder... THERE

BLINKS A THIRD EYEBALL!!!

It is the eyeball of EVIL ASH.  Beneath it, a mouth and nose

begin to take shape on the surface of Ash's back.

SHRIEKS and SHRIEKS and races out of the mill.  The CAMERA

follows him in docu-horror style as he flees into the dark

woods.

ASH

staggers about in a frenzy, stumbling over logs and through the

brambles.  He races up to the CAMERA and cries out as this

protrusion upon his shoulder becomes more pronounced.

It's taking the shape of a twin human head as it emerges from

his shoulder. A head that looks similar to his own, but is Evil

incarnate.

He is now a man with two heads!

Staggers through the woods like a drunkard, the two identical

heads trading insults, and sharply butting against one another.

opens it's mouth and bites the nose of the Good Ash head.

retaliates by gouging the eyes of the Bad Ash head.

collapses against a tree.  Under the light of the full moon we

see a terrifying sight:

sprout from Ash's body!

rips out of his stomach.  Another foot POPS out from his back.

Like a human spider he scurries about the forest floor,

propelled by his four arms and four legs.  Suddenly he stands

and SHRIEKS as the EVIL ASH begins to pull away from the first.

He literally splits into two.

When it's over, there are two ASHES.

GOOD ASH and...

They square off beneath the moonlight.

circle one another like wolves.

Dances a funny jig around Ash.  He SMACKS Ash across the face

as he sings:

SMACK!

SMACK!

the shotgun barrel is suddenly shoved into his frame, pointing

at his nose.

BLAMMITY-BLAM!

The blast blows Evil Ash off his feet.

blown backwards into a double backflip.

slams against a tree, upside-down. Then slides to the ground,

quite dead.

clutching the smoldering shotgun.

staring down at the body of his evil self.

The giant blades of the Mill are illuminated with bright flashes

of lightning.  The wind kicks up leaves as Ash throws the body

of his Evil Twin onto a workbench at the base of the windmill.

The giant blades of the mill arc down into frame with a WHOOSH-

WHOOSSH-WHOOSH!

Ash's hand light a torch.

from the base of the windmill.

across the body of Evil Ash to secure it.

CLICK. SNAP. CLINK.

is switched on.  It spews a plume of blue exhaust.

falters for a moment as he stares down at the form of his Evil

twin.  He grits his teeth... and lowers the saw to the grisly

task.

float past the moon.  We hear the distant WHINE of the chainsaw.

ASH

with shovel in hand, drags a bloody burlap bag from the Mill.

Grunting, he pulls the remains of his Evil twin to the base of

an old Oak Tree in the graveyard.

Ash mumbles nervously to the bloodies burlap bag at his feet

as he digs a grave.

finishes digging and lifts the bloody burlap sack.  As he heaves

the bag into the grave, the Evil Ash head spills out.

It's eyes pop open!  It peers up at Ash from the grave.  It

croaks;

It's eyes dart, looking for something on it's face when a

shovelful of dirt is heaped atop it.

as a shovelful of dirt is heaped atop the CAMERA.

buries it deep.  He raises a crude burial marker high above his

head;

backlit by the moon, brings the burial maker swiftly into the

grave. A flash of lightning reveals...

in the distance. A burial place of evil. The old mill wheel

GROANS in the gale.

moves toward the cemetery.

In the center, lies a massive slab of black stone.

draws closer, his teeth chattering as the wind blasts at him.

He glances down to...

sitting atop the ground, leering up at CAMERA with empty eye

sockets. The wind whistles through the empty skull.  The jaw

bone drops open with a squeak.

His hair is whipped up by the wind. He looks to...

backlit by the rising moon, creates eerie beams of light and

shadow.

arrives at the foot of the massive stone.

Atop it sits... THE BOOK OF THE DEAD.

A SECOND BOOK OF THE DEAD!

A THIRD!

THREE BOOK OF THE DEAD!!!

steps close.

He reaches for the first book and opens it.

WHOOOOOOSH!!!

To reveal a black hole.  SCREAMS ERUPT from the dark abyss of

the Book. It begins to suck things into it.

dead leaves and mist are sucked into the book.

Wind hits Ash's face as he feels the suction of the book growing

stronger.

is stretched as it's pulled down into the book.

Ash's arms stretch down into the book's black page.

stretched and screaming, is also pulled on by the book.

A taffy stretched version of Ash struggles against the pull of

the black hole. He pulls free and snaps the book shut.

His face vibrates like jello until it finally snaps back to

normal.

He turns to study...

ASH

tries to decide between them.  At first he's sure which one it

is.  Then, chiding himself for being so easily duped, chooses

the other.

moves ever so slightly as he reaches for it.

Ash reaches for it again and the book bites him!

Rodent teeth have appeared on the surface of the Book.  The Book

flaps it's pages and becomes airborne, flying right at CAMERA

like a bat!

Swooping erratically around Ash's head.

shrieking, chases Ash around, pecking at his neck.

The Batbook is pecking at his eyes!

pulls it from his face and throws it. It lands back on it's

pedestal.

faces the remaining book.  He slowly reaches for it as the wind

kicks up. Ash gently lifts it and turns it over.

It's cover is bound in the dried skin of a man's face!  Two empty

eye sockets stare out from it.  This is the Book of the Dead...

bristles in fear.

He hesitates, then calls out boldly.

He deliberately muffles the last word that he can't remember.

The wind stops.  It seems to have worked.  He looks about with

growing confidence.

But he loses his smile as... a LOW RUMBLE is heard on the

soundtrack.

ASH

A tiny figure among the gravestones which tremble and one by

one are thrust from the earth.

A violent storm in the distance.  Lightning flashes.

A DOOR

blows open revealing Wiseman John.  He looks at the gathering

storm with foreboding.

WHINNIE in hear. Sheila steps into frame and stare fearfully

out at the storm.

ASH runs for his horse, clutching the Necronomicon.

rips up from a grave and grabs his leg!

falls.

is knocked from Ash's hand.

reaches for it when a SECOND skeleton hand rips from the ground

and clutches his face.

digs into Ash's mouth.  It jerks his face sideways to show

him...

that rip from the ground!

toss Ash to...

grab Ash's head and bang it on a rock.  Two of the six arms try

to shake and slap some sense into him. A rotted fist is waved

at him.  Another rotted arm backhands him. The arms thrust his

face toward the skeleton hands.

curl boney fingers, clenching them into fists.

The skeletal fists pepper Ash's face with punches.

last out and snag Ash's tongue between their boney pincers,

shutting Ash up.  With his tongue held, he tries to speak again,

but the other skeletal hand slaps him, shutting him up.  Both

hands work double-time at slapping him.

His face has become a punching bag for the skeletal hands.  They

pull his ears and gouge his eyes.

open his mouth wide with in a SCREAM!

The boney fist is thrust into Ash's screaming mouth up to the

skeleton's boney elbow.

They bulge as he swallow the arm.

A ROTTED ARM

rips through the ground, punching Ash in the stomach.

ASH

jerks backward, vomiting out the skeletal arm.  He tumbles to

the ground.

reach for him, but he is too fast.  He stamps on one of the

skeletal arms, pinning it to the ground.

SNAP!  He breaks the boney arm in two and runs away from the sea

of limbs. A bone arm rips from the grave and reaches for the

Book of the Dead but Ash scoops it up first.  He leaps over

another set of groping arms that rip from the ground!

atop the horse. He glances back in fear to see...

The burial site of Evil Ash. A bolt of lightning strikes the

grave marker.

is thrust from the ground. A hand breaks the surface of the

earth.

fly up from the grave and assemble themselves into a lopsided,

decayed version of EVIL ASH!

ASH

stares in horror at his evil self. All around, skeletons rip

from the earth and shriek as they come back to life!

kicks the horse and rides off.

ASH ON HORSEBACK

galloping back the way he came. In the distance we see the

cemetery. More bodies arise from the ground.

Now far from the danger but still he rides hard.

He pats the saddlebag, where the book is and grins.

He whips his horse...

...and rides off into the darkness.

ASH

A tiny figure, rides toward the castle.

GOLD TOOTH and two guards stand atop a tower and shout down to

the gatekeeper.

THE DRAWBRIDGE

swings down.

rides across the lowered bridge and into the torchlight of the

castle.

TWO WARRIORS

hold Ash's horse as he dismounts. There are excited shouts from

the villagers

ASH

is led to the THREE WISEMEN.

pours a bucket of water over his head and begins drinking.

slurps down more of the water, averting his eyes from the

Wiseman.

Ash produces the Necronomicon.

takes the book and suddenly goes pale.

murmurs at this bad news.

suddenly looks very guilty. Wiseman John turns to him.

bows his head, stung by this information.

looks about at the condemned faces.

CAMERA PANS past the doomed faces in the crowd.

sees Sheila, but looks away, consumed with the guilt that he's

doomed her.

is solemn.

and the others turn away in contempt.

moves closer.

He bows his head and moves off.

A high pitched SHRIEK is heard!

look to the sky.

possessed women with bat-like wings, swoop down.

scream as they flee from the winged beasts.

Like a delta winged F-15, it banks towards Sheila.

races to intercept.  He plants himself between Sheila and the

beast.

As it swoops at Ash.

opens his steel hand, then clamps it closed again on the handle

of his sword.

The immense shadow of the broad winged Deadite falls over Ash.

swings his sword upward.

severs the tip of the Beast's rotted wing.

shrieks in pain as it soars over Ash. No longer aerodynamically

sound, it crashes to the ground.

fire their arrows into the beast, pegging it to a tree.  The

bone white eyes of the creature darken.

spin to the sound of a woman's SCREAM.

in the clutches of WINGED DEADITE #2.

The beast flies off with the fair maiden, soaring over the

castle wall and into the distance.

shakes his fist at the receding beast.

come riding in through the castle doors.

BLAMMITY-BLAM!

All eyes look to...

who stands on a high castle wall, clutching his smoldering

shotgun.

takes a challenging step forward.

is silent as they consider Ash's words. Then from the rear, the

Village Blacksmith steps forward.

steps forward. Then another.

steps forward vowing their allegiance to the cause.

reluctantly joins them.

EVIL ASH

directs teams of skeletons to dig at the graves.

hoist up a stone casket from the ground and with rusted swords

pry it open, releasing another skeleton who stands to join their

ranks.

push a bruised Sheila to her knees before Evil Ash.

looking up to Evil Ash in fear. His boney finger comes down into

frame and strokes her lovely cheek.  She pulls away in

revulsion.

looks down at her with lust.

His boney digit caresses her lips.

SKELETAL EVIL ASH

yanks her to her feet.

He clutches her squirming body in a boney embrace.

Silhouetted by the large full moon, Evil Ash forces his kiss

upon Sheila.  Around them, the skeletons sharpen their swords

on tombstones.

Ash rides toward the castle of Henry the Red that can be seen

in the distance.

is suddenly intercepted by FOUR OF HENRY'S HORSEMEN.  They

surround him.

The draw their swords when...

rides up between his warriors and Ash.

Henry turns to Ash.

Henry laughs.

EVIL ASH AND SHEILA

ride side by side on skeletal steeds.  Sheila lifts her black

veil, revealing bone white eyes, set into a face now the texture

of cracked leather.  She looks with admiration to...

He is general of the army of Deadites. He thrusts a rusted sword

into the air and shouts in a gritty voice:

raise their swords into the air with a shout.

THREE TRUMPETERS

stand atop the castle wall and sound their trumpets!  CAMERA PANS

to reveal...

being pulled by a team of men and horses, inside the castle

walls.  Ash is behind the steering wheel.

ASH AND THE BLACKSMITH

look under the hood of the Delta 88, parked in the Blacksmith's

shop.

is shattered.

frowns.

pour molten iron into a large sand mold.

is brushed away revealing gear wheels.

beat upon red hot iron, fashioning helicopter like rotor blades.

is lowered into the Delta's engine compartment.

ASH

walks along, inspecting a line of forty medieval warriors who

stand at attention. He halts before a warrior and stares hard

at him. The Warrior glances towards Ash.

ASH

takes charcoal from a dead fire and chips of dried cow dung.

He mixes them with sulfur.

is bound up in a small satchel and affixed to an arrow.

lights the fuse with a torch.

draws back and releases the arrow. ZING!

imbeds in a wooden post and EXPLODES. Large pieces of wood are

sent flying.

watch in awe.

THE CASTLE BELL

is rung madly.  The signal for battle stations.

rides in through the castle gates screaming:

A look of shock and fear on all the faces.  ASH comes into

frame.  CAMERA CRANES UP with him as he scales the ladder to

the lookout tower. He peers out to the darkening horizon.

hears them before he sees them: The sound of clicking bones.

Painful moans of tortured souls, the clanging of approaching

armor.

Fifty distant silhouettes of the Evil Dead appear on the

horizon.  Then fifty more.

THREE KILTED SKELETON SCOTSMEN

play rotted bagpipes as they march toward the castle. A haunted

battle melody. Behind them...

plays the drums upon a set of hollow skulls.

takes a leg bone upon a third skeleton's ribs. A bone xylophone.

A bone-o-phone.

blow into arm bones forming woodwind section.

CAMERA TRACKING with these helmeted skeletons as they march.

They are clad in rusting suits of armor, wielding swords and

spears.  Nasty grins on their faces. One hobbles past on his

wooden leg.

ride their steeds to a halt atop a hill.

ride alongside Evil Ash and salute him sharply.

With a sweep of his arm, he waves the Army of rot.

now pound the attack beat on their drums.

advance toward the castle. Some crouch behind wooden barricades

which they roll before them.

ASH, ARTHUR AND THE WARRIORS

pull back arrows on their bow strings.  Each arrow has a small

charge of black powder attached to it.

runs behind the archers, lighting the fuses on each of the

powder charges. As the last arrow is lit....

looks to the approaching army.

rolls their wooden barricades closer.

turns to Ash for the signal.

holds up a finger.  He waits.

strain, their bows taut with the explosive arrows.  The sound

of the FUSE BURNING is loud.

about to disappear into the powder charges.

waits one more beat.  The turns to Arthur.

fire a volley of smoking arrows.

rain down from the castle wall.

are hit with the explosive arrows. They explode.

are pierced by the explosive arrows.  BOOM!  BOOM!  BOOM!  They burst

apart in flames.

roll on the ground unable to extinguish themselves.

continues to advance only to collapse into a smoldering heap.

CHEER Ash in sensurround.

races up to Ash.

turns to the South.

approach.

THREE WOODEN CATAPULTS

are wheeled into position.

hoist large sacks of black powder onto spoons of the catapults.

Their fuses are lit.

gestures. Swords slice through lines which send giant sacks of

black powder catapulting.

Three flaming projectiles whine as they hurl over the castle

walls.

CAMERA CRANING DOWN toward the skeletons as they look upward

in horror.

BOOM!  The first blast takes out a skeleton horse and rider. Bones

fly.

BOOM!  FOUR DEADITES are obliterated.

turns to the Skeleton Captain #1 who rides alongside him.

slices off the head of Skeleton Captain #1. He turns to the

MOUNTED DEADITE next to him.

gulps and races forward into the ranks shouting:

use trees as battering rams and batter the large wooden doors

of the castle.

BOOM!-BOOM!

begin to buckle beneath the hammering blows.

scream!

wedge logs to buttress the buckling castle doors.

fire a volley of arrows. As they reload. Behind them...

fire their arrows.

pierce five Warriors atop the castle wall. They fall.

TWO DEAD WARRIORS

fall to the courtyard. Villagers lift them away on stretchers.

shouts to Ash:

The battering rams rips through the doors and the army of

darkness pours into the courtyard.

crawls in with a knife in its teeth.

looks terrified. He turns and runs from the castle entrance,

dropping his sword, and hides in the blacksmith's shop, pulling

the door closed behind him.

shocked at Ash's cowardly desertion, turns to his men and

shouts:

retreat across the courtyard to rope ladders that scale the

parapet.

The rope ladders are hastily pulled up, leaving no access.

are stranded in the courtyard. They fight for their lives but

are quickly overcome.

takes out the last of the stranded warriors with her sword.

smiles at Sheila. He turns his attention to the guarded tower

just beyond the parapet.

He raises his rusty sword.

storm the parapet with three crudely built wooden ladders as

large rocks rain down upon them from above.

push away ladder #1.

swing away from the wall and crash to the ground.

leap onto the parapet and battle the men with swords.

knocks the deadite off the ledge and shouts back toward Arthur.

pierces his armor and he falls to his death.

A VIKING DEADITE

looks up as he hears...

CHUG!  CHUG!  CHUG!

THE DOORS OF THE BLACKSMITH'S SHOP BURST OPEN

Through the dust and smoke something appears...An iron

beast...belching steam...It's angry iron blades whirling.

Behold...

The stripped chaise of the Delta  88 Oldsmobile. A steam engine

is mounted to it's center to power the craft. At the front and

rear are spinning, helicopter like rotor blades.

shovels coal into the Deathcoaster's furnace.

is at the helm. He pulls a cord.

SCREAMS to announce its birth.

is cut to ribbons by swirling blades.

cheer!

at the base of the ladders look up in horror to see...

slicing through two Deadites at once. The cow-catcher in front

pushes aside the halved Evil Dead.

operates a crude instrument panel with only two levers to steer

the craft. It's a bumpy ride.

Thwop!  Thwop!  Two more skeletons bite the dust.

leathery hands pluck a SCREAMING Gold Tooth from the craft.

disappears beneath the squirming corpses. A moment later he re-

emerges as a skeleton himself, except for the single gold tooth

that shines against the white of the bone. He stands and joins

the Deadites.

leaps onto the moving Deathcoaster to face Ash.

attacks with a SHRIEK!

spins out his double barreled shot gun and...

BLAMMITY-BLAM!

...blows her off the craft. She does a back flip into the other

Deadites.

pulls hard on the steering stick and it tears loose from the

craft.

careens out of control.

tumbles from the helm and hits the ground.

flips, crushes a group of Deadites against a wall, and explodes.

picks himself up from the dust. He looks upward to...

attempts to push the ladder away. A sword comes up into frame,

stabbing Arthur. He is yanked to his death with a shriek!  Evil

Ash, with his bloody sword, leaps up from the ladder and onto

the parapet. He's headed for the Book of the Dead.

races to a set of ropes and pulley that ascend the parapet. Two

deadites come at him. He grabs the rope with his steel hand and

slices one end of it with his sword.

plummet down atop the two deadites, crushing them.

Simultaneously, Ash is tanked upward by the rope, to the

parapet.

looks to...

approaching the Necronomicon.

kicks aside a hay bale and removes a mini-crossbow with four

flame tipped arrows, loaded and ready. He fires.

imbeds in Evil Ash's leg and ignites his body. Another flaming

dart hits his shoulder blade. The flames consume his body. He

burns and SHRIEKS!

watches in horror as...

revealing a bone white skeleton with mismatched eyes. SKELETAL

EVIL ASH!  It races at Ash with a SHRIEK.

bring their swords together with such great force that sparks

fly.  Ash is forced back against the stone pedestal that holds

the Necronomicon.

CLANG!

With a deft stroke, Ash's sword is flung from his hand.

imbeds in a wooden beam.

grabs the Necronomicon, then swings his sword at Ash.

grabs a burning iron torch from its mount.

WHOOSH!  KLANG!  WHOOSH!  KLANG!

Man and Skeleton battle with flaming torch and sword.

KLANG!

The torch is knocked from Ash's hand. It falls over the edge

of the wall and lands in the courtyard below. It ignites a fuse.

The burning fuse leads to a sack of black powder. The sack sits

upon the spoon of a catapult.

SKELETON ASH

swings his sword. Ash leaps over the blade. The Skeleton swings

downward, and Ash side steps it.

rabbit punches CAMERA.

Ash's fist bursts out all it's rotted teeth.

delivers a right hook, spinning the skeleton's head around in

a circle.

gives Ash a backwards roundhouse kick to the face. Ash tumbles

over the edge.

falls to the courtyard below, alongside the catapult. He glances

at the burning fuse.

leaps from the parapet and lands atop the catapult. The Skeleton

looks down at Ash with a nasty grin of bone.

Behold...

He gestures to the Evil Dead that overrun the parapet and now

battle the last twenty of Arthur's warriors for control of the

Keep.

He extends the Necronomicon to taunt Ash.

He raises his sword for the death blow...

turn...

A jubilant CHEER rises from the castle as...

thunder down the hill, across the drawbridge and into the castle

courtyard to attack the Deadites!

turns back to Ash and raises his sword for the kill.

has grabbed a sword from a fallen warrior. With a single motion

he slices the hand that holds the Necronomicon from Skeleton

Ash.

snags the book with one hand and on the backswing, slices

through the rope, springing the catapult.

are flung over the castle wall.

THE SKELETON PROJECTILE

rockets up past camera, waving its boney arms. The burning

satchel follows.

BOOM!  The skeleton is blown to bits in mid air.

A CHEER goes up within the castle courtyard as Henry's Warriors

crush the last of the Deadites.

streak over the horizon. Ash enters frame. He holds the

Necronomicon as he looks wearily out over the battlefield.

Smoking skeletons lay scattered. Henry and Arthur's Warriors

work together. They toss the deadite bones and armor into a

bonfire.

engulfed by flames, crack in the heat.

are dipped into the flame of a bonfire.  They ignite.

Form a row of archers.

They fire their flaming arrows toward the sea.

strike a wooden ship that holds the body of Arthur.

ASH AND THE OTHERS

watch the funeral pyre sail off.  It's flickering flames play

upon their faces.

FLAMES OF THE FIRE - CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL...

mix a vat of liquid over a fire as they recite a passage from

the Necronomicon.  A flask is dipped into the liquid.

WISEMAN JOHN

hands the flask of liquid to Ash.

Ash takes the flask and studies it.

ASH

rides off.

ASH

with the aid of his horse, drags the Deathcoaster inside the

cave.

He sets the horse free.

It gallops off.

ASH

Places a black powder charge at the mouth of the cave.  He

ignites the fuse and climbs into the car.

BOOM!

The powder charge blows.  The cave's entrance is sealed shut

with an avalanche of rock.

The car headlights come on, piercing the blackness.

ASH

uncorks the flask filled with the Wiseman's brew.

He lets six drops fall into his mouth.  One for each century

he must sleep.

Ash is unaware that an extra drop has fallen into his mouth!  A

7th drop!  Ash swallows the liquid.

falls into a deep slumber.

fade.

now in a different position. Time has passed. He needs a shave.

wind faster and faster, then halt and rust in time lapse

photography. The leather band rots away and the watch falls from

Ash's wrist.

rises then sets.

follows.

forms along the surface of the aging rock wall.

sprouts buds, they swell forming leaves which change to the

brilliant colors of fall then drop.

covers Ash.

on the ceiling of the cave melt.  The water drops down onto

Ash's face.  He stirs.

awakens in a heap of rusted scrap, which was once the

Deathcoaster. His clothes and armor having deteriorated, he is

buck ass naked as he staggers to the mouth of the cave. He digs

at the rocks that block the cave's entrance.  Sunlight streams

into the hole he has created.

ASH

climbs from the cave and steps into the sunlight.

beholds...

after the next Nuclear war: a dead land.

A FRACTURED CLOCK TOWER

lays sprawled on its side.  The time of mankind's death frozen

on the cracked face of the clock.

abruptly ends, a third of the way across a river it once

spanned.  Upon it, rest heaps of futuristic, yet rusted taxicabs

piled eight deep in some places.

CAMERA PULLS BACK from a stunned Ash, amidst the atomized pieces

of iron and bone.

is so small a dot now, and so far away, that we almost can't

hear his terrified SCREAM!

