Dark night.  Most street lights shot out.  Just one or two of

the eerie vapor lights left on the block.

A MIDDLE-AGED AFRICAN-AMERICAN MAN carries his single bag of

groceries.  The man listens and watches carefully, as he

negotiates the darkness between the few pools of light on the

street.

We won't see his face until he reaches the next pool of

light, but he walks with shoulders hunched in fear.

Moving down the block, all shops abandoned.  Broken windows.

Rats.  The man almost trips over a vague shadow passed out

and crumpled in an abandoned doorway.  It's the crackhead we

saw mumbling himself into the nod-off zone.  He's still

faintly singing a part of the bones song as the man passes.

He stops in the light.

And we see it's SHOTGUN: 20 years of fear and loathing etched

on his face.  He freezes, listening for a second to the

crackheads wheezing mumbles - no - it's something else he's

listening for -- and hearing.

From behind him a low wheezy sound, like some huge panting

dog.  He stops.  And it stops.  He walks on and it follows:

As he hurries to the next pool of light and safety, his ears

strain for the nearly silent padding and wheezing steadily

following.

Suddenly, he hears that panting closer and closer until it's

nearly right behind him.  He starts running, though he hasn't

yet seen anything.  Only heard the mongrel hot on his heels.

FOLLOW WITH SHOTGUN

As he stumbles, careens, and wheezes through the streets and

alleys, terrified.  Winded, he eventually stops, his hand

trembling into his shopping bag, seeking a weapon.

And we see the building he's paused beside: Bones' place.

Pockmarked by age.  Like the face of some furious old man.

Now he can almost feel the dog's breath on the back of his

neck...Shotgun spins, whipping a bottle of milk out of the

bag and hurling it into the darkness behind him.

The bottle smashes against the wall of Bones' building.  For

a second, silhouetted against the now whited wall, the tall,

too tall, shape of the skinny black dog.

Without waiting to see what he hit, Shotgun takes off running

to reach his building across the street.  The sound of the

dog's nails skittering across the street right behind him --

-- and he just makes it --

INT. SHOTGUN'S BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Inside, safe, panting for breath.  Then starts running up the

stairs...

EXT. SHOTGUN'S BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

From outside his third floor window, we see Shotgun run into

his apartment, slam down his groceries on the counter, grab

an old rifle from under his bed and hurry to his open window.

INT. SHOTGUN'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

He scan/aims out his window across the street to the now

desolate building where Bones once lived.  Finger on the

trigger, eyes scanning the shadows for the dog.  Mumbling

quotations from the Bible about canines, some of which are

handwritten and taped up on his walls and mirrors:

Suddenly, something moving on the empty street catches his

eye.

HIS ANGLE ON

The Black Dog emerging from the shadows in the street.  Our

first good look at the beast.  Long clawed paws, all teeth

and tongue and a curved bony rib cage like it hasn't eaten in

20 years.

It's long black head seems almost to be throbbing, moving

from within, almost subliminally we see a weirder, demonic,

more skeletal dog face just beneath the black fur... Or is it

just the buzzing light from the vapor lamps?

The dog stands in the pool of light, offering a perfect shot.

Shotgun smiles, aims, and then fires, making --

EXT. BONES BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

-- a direct hit!  But the dog doesn't move.  Unfazed.  The

bullet must have missed.  Or else gone right through him.

The long-faced dog just looks up at Shotgun like it was

laughing at the fool.  And has been for years.

Shotgun reaches for the spilled groceries on the counter.

Shoving aside bread and canned goods and other edible

necessitates, and finds a half-dozen boxes of rifle rounds.

He calmly reloads the rifle.  And the sound of another shot

echoes in the night over...

EXT. AROUND THE CORNER - CONTINUOUS

Two frat boys, JASON and PALMER, driving a too nice car in a

too bad part of town.  Palmer at the wheel while Jason makes

a call on the cellular.

They stop in the middle of a block.  Jason on the phone.

He turns around and sees behind them, TWO GUYS standing on

the far corner.  One's on the phone.

EXT. STREET - SAME

They exit the car, looking all around them with more than a

touch of paranoia.

As they walk nervously down the block, they join the two on

the corner.  It's STANK and WEAZE, both 17.

Jason and Palmer aren't sure about this.  By the sphincteral

look on his face, Palmer would rather forget about it.

EXT. BLACKSTONE AVE. - CONTINUOUS

They walk around the corner and enter a bleak block with at

least half the lots burnt out.

Farther down, in the center of one side of the street, stands

a particularly ominous abandoned building.  Bones' building.

Jason ignites a Zippo, and they see one loose brick.  Jason

pulls it out and behind it sees a glint of baggy.

He opens the bag.  It's filled with rock cocaine.

ANGLE - ACROSS THE STREET

On the third floor, Shotgun sits in his straight-backed chair

in front of the open center window drinking coffee, cradling

his rifle on his lap.  Sees the frat boys picking up their

shit.  Then he looks out at Bone's 'tomb':

Dark blank windows staring back at him; the building's front

door covered with broken vertical boards with jagged pieces

missing, looking almost like a jack-o-lantern's grin.

Shotgun then looks back down at the boys below.  From behind

them they hear their car alarm go off.

But from the other way come cops, in a plain wrap car, a hand

reaching out and putting the spinning blue light on the roof.

No place to run.  No place to hide for the boys.  They reach

for the door of the shuttered building -- and it opens!

But they ignore him and disappear into the darkness inside

the gaping maw of Bones' building.

Shotgun shakes his head sitting back down, cradling his

rifle.

Inside, the boys huddle in the darkness behind the door,

waiting for the cops to pass.

The boys look around the decayed Gothic interior lit only by

the eerie glow of the sodium vapor lights outside.

What we last saw as the ornate 70's luxury lobby in Bones'

day, is now  a horror show.

Walls torn and stained.  Mold grows in patches on the wall

and ceiling.  Huge cobwebs hang.  The furniture's all broken.

A gnawing tearing sound makes Palmer spin: a rat sticks its

head up through the rotted cushions of the couch.

Jason shushes him as the room is filled with the flashing

blue light of the cop car trawling slowly down the street.

From inside they hear the sounds of a car door slamming and

cop shoes walking.

He gropes his way in the darkness to a staircase.  Palmer is

right behind him as they slip upstairs, deeper into the

gaping darkness of the abandoned building.

While below them the door opens and cop lights and cop voices

penetrate the gloom.

And from the boys' high vantage point up the stairs we see

the first cop walk in with flashlight drawn.

WHILE INSIDE THE COP CAR - CLOSE ANGLE

All we see are two meaty hands unwrapping a wax-paper covered

pork chop sandwich.  The cop, face in shadow, brings the drip

ping sandwich up over his huge belly towards his face.

INSIDE BONES' BUILDING

The frat boys hold their breath while rats run across their

feet.  Jason slamming his hand over Palmer's mouth to keep

him from screaming.

DOWN BELOW

The young plainsclothes cop steps deeper into the room, and

shines his flashlight at the stairwell.

UPSTAIRS

Jason pulls the reluctant Palmer further up the stairs, to

the third floor as below them they hear the cop coming up.

Jason pulls Palmer through the nearest door and into:

INT. JIMMY BONES' OLD PAD - CONTINUOUS

The rotted remains of what was once Jimmy Bones' master

bedroom.  The room he was betrayed and slaughtered in.

DOWNSTAIRS

The cop begins to head up the stairs.  Visible behind him,

down through the open front door, is the plain wrap car.  The

older cop inside, mouth fulla sammich, loudly says:

FROM THE FAT OLDER COP'S POV

We watch as the younger cop returns to the car, giving up.

And when he climbs in, we reverse and reveal who the older

cop is: LUPOVICH, the cop who helped kill Bones.

But he's decayed and expanded into a Hank Quinlan-like

mountain of corrupt cop flesh.  Too many pork chop

sandwiches.

INT. JIMMY'S OLD PAD - SAME

From upstairs, the boys see the blue light of the cop car

recede as the car pulls away down below.

Palmer reaches for the door.  He wants out.  But in the

darkness, he can't find the door.

Behind Jason we see a shape, a shadow, a tall silhouette, a

man-shaped deeper darkness forming within the darkness.

Jason lights his lighter.  And in the flickering we see

behind him that this room now contains a portion of hell:

It's not just the chipped paint and peeled rotted wall paper,

or the cracks and gaps in the broken old ceiling mirror.

All surfaces seem to be a swirling, shifting pattern in which

we can dimly and subliminally make out faces as if people

were trapped on the surface of things.  Exactly like the

glimpse we had beneath the world when Jimmy died...

The floor, the walls, the furniture, everything in it -- made

out of the wracked and twisted devouring and devoured forms

of dead souls.  Their faces, hollow pleading eyes and howling

mouths visible like flowing grain in wood.

And in the center of it all stands the dark silhouette of

Bones, impossibly tall and thin, stretching malevolently out

across the room like a living shadow.

But the boys don't see this as they're finding the door.  We

see Bones shadow arching towards them while they fumble.

Palmer finally opens the door to the sound of a deep rumbling

growl from the darkness on the other side.  And in the open

door stands the black dog.

They boys jump back.  But breathes easy.

And the black dog leaps up at them -- teeth flying right for

the boys' throats.  And in the flickering ghastly light we

see its demon face breaking through.

The dog sinks his long teeth into Jason's arm.  He flails and

drops his lighter, still lit, on the floor.

As soon as he does, the dog releases Jason, and disappears as

fast as it appeared, back into the darkness.

The two kids panic, Jason shaking and bleeding, looking

around, waiting for the dog or something else to attack,

seeing back through the doorway into the room from hell.

Behind them we see that tall man-shaped shadow.  The Bones

shadow is oblivious to the two frantic boys, intent only on

the small flickering flame of the lighter still burning where

it fell against the lower wood paneling of the wall.

A thin trail of black smoke as the flame barely begins to

catch on the chipped lead-filled flammable paint.

THE BOYS RUN

And stumble down the hall away from the horror, while back in

the room the Bones-shadow watches as the lighter flickers and

dies out.  Other than a slightly blackened spot, the wall is

unburned.

The black shadow shudders in rage, arches back and hooooowls

in frustration, its mouth abnormally large.  The shadowy head

snaps in the direction of the boys -- ready to vent it's

wrath, and for a subliminal second we see in the head, the

hellish face of Jimmy Bones.

The boys round the second floor landing and fly down the last

flight of stairs.

Jason's foot breaks through a rotted floorboard and for a

second, it appears as though rotten hands are just below the

stairs, grabbing at his foot and leg.

He yelps in terror, pulling his foot back as they continue

towards the front door, the Bones-thing's woofer-busting howl

roaring down from the third floor.

THE SHEER INFINITE ADRENALINE RUSH

Of pure horror and the desperation to survive drags the boys

off the stairs as they tear across the floor and hurl

themselves out the front door into the night air... Jason

falling and lying on the stoop.

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Across the street, Shotgun sees the boys in the doorway.

Then, as a nearly dead vapor light suddenly flickers and

comes to life, the shadows created on Bones' building make it

look almost like a demonic face.

Gulping for air, laughing hysterically at their survival, the

frat boys pause.  Jason sits back on his butt, checking his

wound.  The doorway behind them just a black hole in space.

THEN SUDDENLY

Something - it happens so fast we're not sure just what grabs

sucks-pulls Palmer back into the black doorway hole.

Jason, still prone, tries to crawl away but whatever got his

friend now sucks him in too.  His fingernails scraping along

the stoop in frenzied desperation.

WITH SHOTGUN

When he hears the boys pitiful screams and whimpers from

across the street, he leaps to his feet and tries to see into

the dark of the doorway across the street.  But he can only

hear what is happening to the unlucky frat fellas:

Moans and the sound of flesh torn, and swallowed, and their

last dying screams.

UP AND DOWN THE BLOCK

The screaming reverberates.  Faces appear in some windows.

While in others, shades are drawn and the lights go out...

BACK WITH SHOTGUN

Mumbling to himself:

Tears welling in his eyes that he angrily flicks away.

LOOKING AT THE BUILDING

It still has the shadowy look/shape of Jimmy Bones, now

shifting again as the vapor light on the street sputters out

again, plunging the street into near darkness.  The body of

Palmer no longer visible below.

When he looks back, the building seems just an old building

again.  Then there's movement in an upper window, catching

his eye.  Shotgun sees the tall, shadowy silhouette.

The figure is elongated, can't tell if it is a man, or the

distorted shadow of a man.  It beckons to Shotgun.

SHOTGUN

Just tightens his grip on his rifle and speaks as if the

shadowy thing across the street could hear him.

THE SHADOW

Shakes its head.  As if it can hear him.  And again mutely

beckons to him.

ON SHOTGUN

EXT. SOUTH SIDE OF TOWN - 1979 - DAY

In the ghetto.  A thriving street.  Shops and apartments.

Storefronts, newsstands.  Life in the hood.

A sleek black Buick Electra 'deuce and a quarter' floats down

the avenue, Curtis Mayfield-style...

INT. BUICK ELECTRA - DAY

Behind the fur-covered steering wheel: SHOTGUN, a broke-nosed

bodyguard for the man in the back seat:

JIMMY BONES - 28.  His street.  His world.  Cool, handsome,

respected.  Dressed very fly, but not excessive.  Long black

coat, black silk shirt, and matching wide-brimmed hat.

His left hand sports a big diamond ring while his right hand

toys with a long silver razor, polished and oiled to

perfection so that the long glinting blade can swing back and

forth, or lock into position.

EXT. BLACKSTONE AVE. - DAY

Bones steps out from the car on to his street like a

benevolent feudal lord or a popular Mafia Don.

-- greeting and soul shaking every man, woman and child on

the block: they display a mixture of fear/love and respect.

-- coolly taking down numbers in a notebook: soothing to the

losers, encouraging to the wary, tough with the welchers.

-- and handing out a rare win to an astonished old man

standing in his pajamas in the doorway of an old tenement.:

on her, washing her hands, washing and washing them...

Her hands, washing becomes time passing.  Years, decades, the

building and the surroundings decay... And still the dark,

skinny dog prowls the shadows.  Just one more reason we no

longer see anyone walk the street at night.

The 90's end --

And Bones' building stands worn and naked with burnt-out lots

on either side.  And the street feels like a ghost town.

In the evil colored light of the gaseous street lights,

Bones' own shadow stretches and distorts across all three

stories.  His shadow face filling a window.  As in and around

the building and out in the ruins on either side, the black

dog still walks.

AND FINALLY RETURN TO WEATHERED HANDS STILL WASHING

THEMSELVES IN HOT WATER --

To the PRESENT.

Pull out and reveal Pearl, skin drawn, eyes heavy, now 20

years older, washing her hands.  And then drying them.

CREDITS END

INT. KRUSHED KLUB - NIGHT

Two raging black screaming skulls engulfed in eye-scorching

fluorescent green fire:

The decals on the front panel of a Gemini Executioner, a hi

tech mixer.  Four hands at the controls.  Throbbing, shifting

twisted beats.  We're in a Northside dance club:

Pull out to reveal BILL, 20, and MAURICE, aka Space Cowboy

and Intergalactic Gangster of Love, 20.  The two boys DJ-ing.

They're accompanied by the crooning voice and dancing body of

Bill's step-sister TIA, 29.  Bill's black.  Tia's white.  And

Maurice is not of this earth.

Bill's turntablizing: his hands dance between two competition

style direct drive turntables tilted side by side, playing

them like an instrument.

While Maurice plays in and around and out of Bill's rhythm,

with his 6 top-loaded computerized CD players, the boys hand

the beat back and forth and up and down, building

outrageously, till Maurice tips it over the top.

The floor is jammed with underground dance scenesters,

college students and spaced-out shoegazers tripping on

Ketamine, dancing with their invisible friends.

The bar's surrounded by a sea of hands waving money,

demanding drinks.  Our boys are popular.  And the club is

making a lot of green tonight.

See someone checking out all the money, counting heads:

PATRICK, 23, Bill's older brother.  The money man.

EXT. BACK ON THE SOUTH SIDE - NIGHT

Stank and Weaze are cruising around in the frat boys BMW,

laughing their asses off.

INT. THE KRUSHED KLUB - PRE-DAWN

Live show's over.  And a chill mix tape plays while the boys

pack their gear.  Across the club, Patrick's arguing with the

club owner, MOE.  Just now handing Patrick a couple bills.

Patrick's not happy.

EXT. KRUSHED KLUB - CONTINUOUS

The guys and Tia stumble out with all their equipment,

loading it and themselves into Patrick's over-sized SUV.

Patrick right behind them.  They gather around to split their

fee.

Patrick hands Bill and Tia each a flyer:

The Restaurant Brothers

Ill Bill and DJ Maurice -- a.k.a. The Space Cowboy

Playing at Illibent.  Fridays.

Patrick beckons them into the car.

EXT. BLACKSTONE - DAY

Patrick pulls up to the abandoned lot next to Bones'

building.  In broad daylight the building looks even

stranger.  The lines don't matchup.  Weeds and broken glass,

rusted autoparts, and empty abandoned shopping carts in

tangled heaps like ruins in the lot beside the building.

They step up to the front of the building.

Patrick opens the door and steps inside.

INT. THE BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

The darkness broken only by sunlight streaming through grimy

windows reveals the decaying interior of the building.

We can see now nothing's been moved since the late '70's.

Old furniture, carpets, pictures - late '70's Gothic.

Patrick leads them to the stairwell going up and down around

the old elevator cage/shaft.

They come to the elevator shaft, no elevator in sight.

Maurice looks down the elevator shaft and gets immediately

dizzy, almost plunging to his doom - pulled back by Bill.

Mia, Bill and Maurice all climb the stairs as Maurice lights

a joint with a little box of stick matches.

Tia checks out the second floor while Bill and Maurice

continue up the stairs to the third floor.  Bones' old crib.

WITH BILL AND MAURICE

Behind them, barely subliminal glimpse - a manshaped darker

shadow within a shadow.  Bill feels a cold wind from nowhere.

And hears a whispery sound seemingly carried in the breeze.

BELOW ON THE SECOND FLOOR

Tia's checking out a bedroom.  Hears a light tinkling in a

closet.  She opens it: empty except a row of rusty metal

hangers, holding the moldy remains of Bones old suits.

DOWNSTAIRS IN THE BASEMENT - PATRICK

Is there a flashlight, poking around.  Trying to find the

metal knob to turn on the gas.  Eerie as hell down there.

Out of the corner of our eyes we see a shadow moving,

looming.  A scurrying sound and Patrick turns his flashlight

in the other direction: we glimpse a bloated rat.

Behind him, the shadow we glimpsed grows, elongates.  Patrick

notes another door.  This one padlocked.  Sensing someone or

something behind him, Patrick turns with the flashlight.

Nothing there.  But the Bones-shadow is behind him again.

Again he feels something and again he turns the flashlight

around: nothing.

Except the Bones-shadow is again...behind him.

Shaking it off, Patrick heads for the old heater, pulling out

matches to light the pilot as Bones-shadow stays behind him.

BONES POV

Bones watches as Patrick reaches around the gas heater.  When

Patrick strikes a match head, the Bones-shadow moves even

closer to him as Patrick reaches in and lights the pilot.

When Patrick steps back, Bones-shadow grows and stretches,

spreading like an ink stain, reaching across to where the

pilot flame flickers.

In profile, the shadow-mouth blows...but no breath comes out.

The flame doesn't even flicker.

Bones tilts his head back and lets loose an eerie bellow of

frustration in a subliminal flash we see a howling mouth,

bigger than any human mouth, howling within the shadow-face.

The sound echoes all through the basement rooms as Patrick

walks back upstairs.  He slaps a nearby plumbing pipe.

FOLLOW WITH BONES POV

As disappointed in whatever he hoped blowing out the furnace

pilot would do, he steps into the rusted remains of the old

elevator and the POV begins to levitate.

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Bones' POV rises straight up as if still in a working

elevator.  It rises and we follow up from the basement to the

empty first floor, past the second floor to:

THE THIRD FLOOR

Where we're still inside, floating in the elevator cage.

Then the POV moves through the metal bars and floats towards

Bill, who's approaching the door of the room where Jimmy

died.

As Bill reaches to open it, Bones' POV floats closer - and

closer - right up on Bill's back now.  Bill feeling the hairs

on his neck suddenly rising.  Then he hears:

Bill turns around to check with Maurice.

But Maurice is gone.  And he doesn't see the shadow there

behind him.  Bill leans in to the door, listening...

A hand jolts him from behind.  He spins -- it's just Maurice.

They turn to walk back down.  Maurice stops to re-light his

joint when the Bones-shadow reaches out to grab his wrist.

But it's no good.  The shadow hand passes right through,

Maurice pauses for an instant as if he felt something.

Maurice lights his roach, and the match burns closer and

closer to his fingertips.  Then singes them and he drops the

match.  Maurice then heads downstairs after Bill.

The shadow remains behind, staring at the still burning match

on the wooden floor.  He bends down, staring intently as if

willing it to burn, his hands urging it on, the flame

suddenly rising.  But then the match sputters harmlessly out.

The shadow turns back towards the boys downstairs.

WHILE ON THE SECOND FLOOR

Tia explores the rest of the floor.  Hears a sound, like a

whimpering, from behind another door.

She slowly eases open the door then jumps back -- Inside, the

dog.  It growls low and mean, the black fur on the back of

it's neck rising.  It's eyes burning too red and bright.

Tia freezes.

The dog growls deeply at her.  And as he does we see the

Bones shadow rising behind her.  It seems to lean in and over

her, and the dog stops growling.

Tia cautiously holds her hand outstretched with the burger

for the dog to smell.

Bones' shadow from lingers behind her, perhaps simply

enjoying the first sight in hellish eons of a beautiful girl.

The dog leaps up - but not to rip her throat out.  Instead it

snatches the burger and wolfs it down in one gulp.

INT. FIRST FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

Bill looks skeptical, Maurice outraged.  Patrick firm.

Tia's coming down the stairs.  Maurice watching her legs

appreciatively as she descends.

She comes in with the dog padding silently behind her.

"Bones" grins, all teeth with its tongue hanging out.  They

walk out the front door, the dog slipping out with them.

EXT. BLACKSTONE - ACROSS THE STREET - CONTINUOUS

Shotgun watches from the window as the group exits the

building with the dog.  Seeing the cur he instinctively

reaches for his gun.  But the dog's surrounded by kids.

Tia, Bill and Bones the dog pile into the van as Pearl and

her daughter CINNABAR, 21, walk by.

The daughter's as fine now as her mother was then.  Pearl

sees the dog in the van and her head snaps to the gang.

Pearl walks a little faster, trying to draw Cinnabar away

from the kids and the dog.

But Cinnabar lingers a few paces behind her mother and

catches Patrick's eye.  He's stunned, and before he can

speak, Maurice speaks for him.

Pearl studies their faces, especially Patrick's.

They stop in front of a storefront - same old palm reading

sign.  But the name is different.  Now it's "SISTER PEARL -

READER AND ADVISOR."  Pearl enters the building while a

lingering Cinnabar catches a look on Patrick's face.

Patrick is still checking her out.  And we can see from a

window, Pearl is still checking him out.  While Maurice is

checking out the wacky window design.

A run-down storefront, fronted by a crude faux-Parisian Black

Cat Facade.  A "private club", the local boss' HQ.

INT. BLACK CAT CLUB - CONTINUOUS

Inside, the lights are dim and clouds of cigarettes and cigar

smoke float over worn out old pool tables.

Most of the tables are empty.  An older man wearing

sunglasses lines up a careful shot on a corner table.  It's

Eddie Mack.  20 years after doing Bones, he rules the hood.

What's left of it, anyway.

Before he can shoot, Stank and Weaze breeze in, Stank holding

some car keys up in his hand.

Distracted, Eddie hits the eightball and scratches.  He snaps

the pool cue over his knee.

EXT. ROSSMORE PARK - EVENING

The guarded entrance to the gated community.  Bill and the

others roll up to the gate in their van.

Barney Fife pokes his head in the window and stares at 'em

suspiciously.  They all "smile" back.

EXT. THE PEET HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

They pull into the huge multi-car driveway in front of their

house.  Not quite a mansion, but damn close.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The kids are all sitting around the kitchen, watching Tia fix

some meaty concoction to feed the dog.  The dog stares at her

expectantly.  Jaws dripping in anticipation.

An older, distinguished looking black man walks in.

And we see their father is... Jeremiah.  Though now a

prosperous banker, twenty years ago he was the man who set

Bones up.  He enters with NANCY, his white second wife, Tia's

mother.

At the sound of Jeremiah's voice, the dog looks up right at

him and unleashes a low, rumbling growl.

They look at the dog eating enough beef to feed six people.

Bones is back in the car.  Shotgun rolling on down the street

and round the corner.

Bones sees a young black man leaning into the window of a

police car.  It's JEREMIAH PEET, Bones' right-hand man,

trying to do business.  And make sure his three year old son

keeps from running into the street.  The cop in the car

eating a sloppy sauce-drippin' pork chop sandwich, watches.

Jeremiah speaking low and rapid to the cop who says nothing,

just wipes his greasy lips on a handkerchief.

Then Shotgun hits the car horn, which plays a James Brown

style trumpet riff.  Jeremiah steps over to Jimmy's car.

Jeremiah's son cautiously following.

The boy makes eye contact with Bones, who motions he's got a

dollar for him.  The boy nervously takes it from Bones and

then runs back to the curb under his father's harsh eye.

She takes his hand in hers.

She strokes his hands.

The car pulls away, the little boy waves good-bye...

EXT. BLACK CAT POOL CLUB - NIGHT

A cop car pulls up.  Out the passenger side come two skinny

legs, followed by a bowling ball gut.  Lupovich...

INT. BLACK CAT POOL CLUB - CONTINUOUS

Lupovich makes his entrance and bellies across the club

towards Mack.

He tosses a bag of crack rocks on the pool table.

Mack hands him a wad of cash.

Mack hands him another wad of Bills.

Patrick talking to the others, Jeremiah asleep by now.

Around the table, Chinese food containers.  Tia's still

sneaking meat to the dog under the table.  The TV on in the

corner.

Jeremiah's topping off his dinner with XANTAC -- high blood

pressure medicine.  His normal dyspeptic mood not improved by

the conversation the kids are having.

Jeremiah increasingly uncomfortable with the subject matter.

ON TV

We see flashes on the news of various streets of the hood,

including a shot of Bones block and building.

INT. SOUTH SIDE SAVINGS AND LOAN - DAY

Jeremiah swears a painted smile on his face as he shakes the

just entered Lupovich's hand.  They seem, for all the world,

like old friends as he leads him back to his office.

INT. JEREMIAH'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

But the minute they are in his office, Jeremiah's friendly

demeanor drops like a mask.

Lupovich looks around the expansive office and paws the

photos and knicknacks on Jeremiah's desk.

Jeremiah buzzes.

An assistant manager, CLAIRE, enters.

She leaves.  Lupovich is still holding the picture of

Jeremiah's wife.

He puts down the photo with a wink.

Jeremiah advancing on Lupovich, who chuckles and walks out.

He's stopped by a kick under the table from Patrick.

Quick cuts of the moon, the sun, Bones neighborhood, Patrick

and the gang cleaning up the building.  And finally, at

dusk...

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - MORNING

Patrick's on a ladder replacing glass in the upper windows.

From down the block, we see Cinnabar heading out of her

mother's house, holding her portfolio.  The corners of papers

sticking out, splashes of color visible.

Patrick sees Cinnabar about to walk beneath his ladder.

She sees her bus pulling up at the corner and runs for it,

leaving only her smile with Patrick.

She passes Maurice and Bill, pulling up.  Bill has to pull

Maurice's dog like attention away from the way Cinnabar's

bottom moves as she walks down the street to focus at the

matter at hand: unloading their shitload of equipment.

EXT. BLACKSTONE - LATER

Maurice and Bill carrying speakers and racks and lights and

turntables while Shotgun, in his lawn chair across the

street, glares at them.

After the last equipment is loaded, they lock the car.

Shotgun still watching.  Bill pulls out a six pack of beer.

He offers one to Shotgun who, after a beat, accepts it.

Maurice surreptitiously turns on his small hi-7 camera.

Holding it under his arm, but it's on.

Shotgun says nothing.

His eyes drift up to the building.

Maurice goes in.  Bill lingers behind.

EXT. BLACKSTONE AVE. - DAY

Bill and Maurice walk around interviewing folks about Bones.

Bill with the DAT recorder, Maurice with the vidcam.

We see this through Maurice's shaky video camera:

grainy VIDEO SHOTS:

An OLD WOMAN.

-- a dude in a wheel chair.  Drinking outta paperbagged

bottle with a wino hanging on the corner.

INT. THE BUILDING - THAT NIGHT

Upstairs, inside what was once Bones' bedroom.  Beneath the

cracked ceiling mirror, Bill lies on the airmattress.  He's

listening with headphones to a minidisk player.

Eyes closed, head nodding to the beat.  Around him, we see

something strange.  The room shifts.

It's the same room.  But changed.  It looks like it did when

the frat boys were trapped in here.  Or in the instant after

Jimmy's death: all surfaces seem to be a swirling, shifting

pattern in which we can dimly make out faces, as if people

were trapped on the surface of things.

Then the faces and bodies begin to step out of their surfaces

and into the room.

So as Bill, eyes still closed, rocks to the hypnotic beats in

his headphones, we see the room around him begin to fill with

figures.

-- all twisted dead human forms emerging out of the surfaces

of floor and walls.  We hear a low murmur of ghost voices,

different languages.

And as the track ends, the sound cuts through Bill's

headphones and his eyes snap open.

But the room is empty.  And completely normal.  Bill pulls

off his head phones.  Ears strain to listen.

The sounds return, fainter, and form above.  Bill looks up,

and for a fraction of a second in the mirror, Bill sees the

crowded eerie hell of the other version of the room.

Bill jolts out of bed and to the door, whips it open, and

someone dark looms right there.  But it's just Patrick.

Bill looks back into the room, normal now.  Glances up at the

mirror, just a cracked reflection of the empty room.

He stops.  Both brothers look at each other, waiting for the

other to admit he's seen or felt something's here.

The bathroom is entirely wood lined, like some '70's hot tub

paradise.  The room dominated by a large two person tub.

Tia lights four small scented candles on the counter.  The

wind through the open window blows the curtains.  She shuts

the window and then steps gingerly into the steaming bathtub.

She lies down in the bath, with her back to the door.  The

four candles throwing varying shadows of her.

Then one of the shadows becomes...the shadow of Bones.  All

it's attention is focused on one lit candle.  The one closest

to the curtain.

Slowly the Bones' shadow's fingers start to caress the

curtain to make it move, ever so slowly, closer and closer to

the candle.  The drapery reaches out, straining, straining

towards the candle flame.

Tia soaks with her eyes closed, enjoying the moist heat.

Bones' shadow fingers more and more urgently drawing the

flame towards the curtain, the curtain towards the flame.

And soon the corner of the drape just reaches the little

flickering flame.  And in an instant the drape is on fire.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Patrick and Bill still talking in front of the bedroom, down

the hall from the bathroom.

Their conversation interrupted by screams from down the

hall... from the bathroom!

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

The drapes are fully ablaze now, flames lick at the wooden

walls.  Tia leaps out of the tub, screaming, trying to throw

bathwater at the burning drapes.

Patrick and Bill crash through the door.  Patrick rips the

drapes from the wall and throws them into the bathtub.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Tia shivers in her bathrobe.  Bill and Patrick with her.

INT. BUILDING - DAY

Ladders, drop-cloths and the beginnings of new paint on the

old torn walls.  They're all eating take out burgers.

Outside, angle on Bones' building down the block.

CLOSER

To the building - we can hear sounds coming from inside the

house.  Like dim drums, some kind of rhythm.

INT. SUBURBAN KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Where the dog eats and eats...

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Even CLOSER.  The sound is a little louder, a little more

disturbing.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Where the dog eats and eats.

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Standing now right in front of it we hear a rhythmic

cacophony from inside, growing louder as the dog eats and we:

INT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

The sound is deafening.  It's the sound of every door in the

empty house swinging maniacally on its hinges.  Beating the

air like wings.  Opening and slamming shut again and again.

Every door except ONE DOOR.  The padlocked door to the sub

basement.

EXT. PEARL'S STOREFRONT - CONTINUOUS

Some older folks, one very old man with a cane, two old black

women, arms linked.  A middle-aged husband and wife.  All

enter.

INT. PEARL'S PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

Dim light.  Cloth covered table.  Everything set for a

seance.

She walks upstairs to Cinnabar's room.

INT. CINNABAR'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

She enters the room where Cinnabar is drawing a still-life

assignment by a window overlooking the fire-escape.

She regrets it halfway out her mouth.  And a thousand-fold

more when she sees the look on her mother's face.

Cinnabar, as far too often, not understanding much of what

her mother says to her.

Pearl reaches into an old bureau drawer and pulls out an old

photo: Jimmy Bones with his arm around her.  She sits down at

her table with a drink and just looks at the picture of

herself and her lover when the world was innocent and young.

She downs her glass and wipes her tears away.

OUTSIDE - DOWN THE BLOCK

In the upper window of the Bones Building we see his

silhouette, staring down the block towards Pearl.

INT. JEREMIAH'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Bones the dog slinks into the kitchen.  Sniffing the air.

Still hungry.  Always hungry.

His big black paw actually opens the refrigerator.  With his

long nose he digs into the meat drawer.  Inside he finds

plastic wrapped raw hamburger meat.

He pulls it out and drops it on the floor.  Tears it open and

gorges himself on the raw meat.

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

The house looms malevolently in the moonlight.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Bones' POV again in his rusted elevator cage.  The POV floats

down through the house into the basement.

BASEMENT

Bones' POV looks at the padlocked door.  Then passes right

through it.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

In the deeper darkness of the dirt cellar we see the Bones

shadow hovering over a slight mound in the dirt.

INT. JEREMIAH'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The black dog wolfs down the last of the hamburger meat.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

And as he does, the ground seems almost to breathe, or glow.

Bones plunges his long shadow-hands right into the earth as

if he could touch what was beneath and raise it up.

He remains like that, shadow hands buried in the dirt, head

tilting back and howling.

EXT. OUT ON THE STREET - CONTINUOUS

Shotgun up in his window, still, holding his gun.  Hears the

howling.  He looks around, expecting to see his nemesis, the

black dog.  But only darkness.

EXT. JEREMIAH'S GATED COMMUNITY - NIGHT

Jeremiah's mansion stands in the moonlight.  Its faux

Gerogian splendor in stark contrast to Bones' building in the

old neighborhood.

INT. PEET HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The house is dark and quiet.  All are asleep.  The dog moves

silently through the house sniffing at doors.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The dog silently noses the door open and stealthily enters

and pads softly over to Jeremiah's side of the bed.

Where it stares intently at the sleeping Jeremiah, who begins

to toss and turn.  He settles again on his back.  His head

tilted back, his soft, vulnerable throat exposed.

The dog steps closer to the bed.  We can almost feel the

dog's hot fetid breath inches away from his throat.

The dog stares at Jeremiah.  And for just a second the long

doggy face wavers and changes: in shifting shades of black, a

ragged red demonic face ripples beneath the black fur -- and

looks for an instant as if it were about to lunge and rip out

Jeremiah's throat!

But at the last second it freezes.  Head cocks and ear lifts

as if hearing something in the wind.  Its master's voice,

perhaps.  And then the dog reverts to normal and pads out of

the room as silently as it entered.

Cinnabar stops outside the building.  She's about to knock

when she instinctively freezes.  We can almost see the hairs

standing up on her neck one by one.

She looks around -- what is it?  A sound, like a moan.  Is it

her name?  Or just the wind.

Suddenly, with a creak, the door swings open.

She takes a hesitant step into the building.  Suddenly she

jumps, as a door to her left flies open.

It's just Patrick.  She laughs in relief.

Patrick too surprised and tongue-tied to respond, so Tia

helps him out.

Cinnabar follows Patrick into the room, with a last tense

look over her shoulder -- still the feeling something's

there.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Tia's feeding the insatiable dog.  Handing quarter-pounders

to it, the thing scarfing 'em as fast as she can unwrap them.

Then, for a second, it stops.  And looks up.  And just stares

at something it knows is there -- but we humans can't see.

Cinnabar follows the dog's glance.  She sees nothing...or is

there something for a second there in the corner?

REVERSE - BONES-VISION POV

Is staring back at her, and at the dog.  Cinnabar pulls her

sweater around her shoulders.

The dog continues scarfing down burgers, having him his way.

Cinnabar looks warily at the beast.  Who stares right back at

her while wolfing down the burgers.

BONES-VISION/POV

Steps through the rusted metal into the old elevator shaft

and we follow it as it floats down.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

As the dog above eats we again see Bones' shadow form looming

over the seeing dirt, the dirt moving ever so subtly, and for

a subliminal second the dirt seems to be glowing.

INT. THE BUILDING - LATER

They're all painting.  Maurice spins some tunes to accompany

them.  It's a funky Tom Sawyer paint party.  The kids defer

to Cinnabar, who's got a wild pallette, and a wild brush.

The place is coming alive with color.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - LATER THAT DAY

In Bones' old room, Patrick rolls over the faded stained old

shag carpet with a huge carpet cleaner.

ANGLE ON

The transparent tubes of the cleaner fill with disgusting red

fluid and carpet fibers.

Patrick stands back and surveys his work.  The carpet looks

perfect.  Old, a little faded, but clean.  No stains.

With a smile of satisfaction he rolls the cleaner out of the

room and closes the door behind him.  We remain in the room.

ANGLE ON

The now clean carpet.  Suddenly we see glutinous red liquid

seeping back up through the shag, until the stain is right

where it was.  Wet and fresh.  Then we see it spread and

move, in the shape of a body and the path by which it was

dragged out of the room.

The door opens again, and Patrick steps in to show off the

freshly painted room clean rug to Cinnabar and the others.

He's brought up short by the sight of the stain.

They roll the carpet back, thinking there must be something

on the floor.  The floor beneath the carpet is wet too, but

can't tell if it's from the rug or vice-versa.

He puts his hand down on the wood.  A low rhythmic rumbling.

The others place their hands on the floor.

They just look at him.

INT. BASEMENT - LATER

Patrick and the others in the basement listening to some very

strange sounds: groans, thumps, throbs.

Patrick traces the piping with the wrench, he comes to a

triple corner, where three small pipes all come together.

A larger pipe that goes down the wall and disappears beneath

the floor.  The thumping sounds emanate from here.  He puts

his finger along the seam of the joint.  He pulls it away,

red.

He lifts the wrench to tighten the seal.  The metal groans.

Then snaps.  Sending a thick spray of foul smelling red

sludge shooting out of the seam, right into Patrick's face.

He turns the wrench the other way, re-tightening.  The sound

seems to move now through the piping.  Then the red sludge

sprays out of the next three joints, smearing the others.

The pounding, throbbing sounds begin to bounce around the

room, as if something were actually moving through the pipes

until it returns to the central large pipe and moves down,

disappearing beneath their feet.

Then a rasping bark calls their attention.  Bones the dog

sits by the padlocked door, panting.  Grinning.

Patrick smashes the old lock with the large wrench and opens

the door to reveal another set of stairs leading down into a

deeper storm cellar where the sound disappeared.

INT. STORM CELLAR STAIRS - CONTINUOUS

As they go, the temperature drops.  A cold, damp sheen

appears on their skin.  Then comes a thick glutinous buzzing

sound.

Flies.  The stairway walls are thick with furry black flies.

The stairs end in a dark, damp dirt cellar and the remnants

of the terminus of the old elevator shaft.

Behind them the dog is digging in the dirt.  Furiously.

They're not paying any attention to the dog's incessant

digging.  Only Cinnabar is.  She's staring at it.

And she sees, in the deepening muddy hole at the dog's paws,

at first glimpses and then the full view, a rotted human

corpse.  Really just a skeleton.  With something sticking out

of its chest.  Cinnabar shrieks, while the guys try very hard

to act real cool.

Maurice bends and pulls out the now blood rusted razor.

He points to one of the bony hands.  The left one.  On the

third finger is Jimmy's big diamond ring.

And he's right.  Oddly for an old skeleton, there are strands

and bands of wet, raw flesh.  Maurice lifts the hand wearing

the ring.  He starts top pull it loose from the finger.

Cinnabar sees something.  Bright color beneath the body.

Bends down to a piece of cloth poking out from beneath the

bones.

The dog growls viciously as she reaches down to the scrap of

color poking up.  Tia restrains the hound the best she can.

The cloth is the corner of a dress...the dog suddenly lunges

for Cinnabar's hands, ripping at them.  She pulls back.

They all start to leave except Maurice and Cinnabar.  He's

loitering by the body, eyeing the ring.  She's staring into

the dark corner of the sub-basement.

HER POV IN THE DIM LIGHT

She sees something wavering, a shadow-mirage, Bones.

She follows the others upstairs.  Bones watches her form as

she climbs the steps, and --

-- for a second from BONES POV we see her mother, when she

was young.

Bones looks now at Maurice.  Who checks to see if the others

are gone.  Then Maurice hurriedly bends down, and while

holding his face back away from the stench attempts to pull

Bones' ring off his finger.  But it's stuck.

He tugs again, harder, and rips the corpse's finger off.

Oh fuck is right.  Bones' shadow rears as it sees this

desecration.  Maurice slips the ring off the finger stump.

He places the finger back by the hand.  And pockets the ring.

INT. BUILDING KITCHEN - LATER THAT NIGHT

Tia fills a bowl with dry dog food.  But Bones the dog turns

his head away and just whimpers.

She pulls out a package of raw hamburger, dumps it into the

bowl, then leaves.  Behind her, the dog tucks into his chow.

INT. THE STORM CELLAR GRAVE - CONTINUOUS

The lock broken, the door stands ajar.  And as the dog gorges

upstairs, something very strange is happening down here.

Flesh is growing on the bones.  Bit by bit, red, wet strips

of muscle and flesh appear and spread over the corpse.

The shadow looks down at his semi-reconstituted corpse.  It

almost looks like him, minus the skin.  But it still has a

long ways to go.  Still, mere strips of muscle and flesh on

the skeleton.

EXT. PEARL'S STOREFRONT - NIGHT

Her usual small crowd arrives for her seance, all hoping this

will be the night they reach their loved ones' spirits.  From

outside, through the window, we see Pearl greet and seat each

of them around the table.  She starts lighting candles.

INT. BONES' PAD - NIGHT

Patrick and Cinnabar sipping a little Remy in his room.

Alone at last.  Awkward.  Intimate.  He refills her glass.

Suddenly their banter is dead.  Her face looks stung, like

he'd slapped her.

He puts his arms around her, and she melts into him.

INT. PEARL'S STOREFRONT - NIGHT

Pearl and the others seated in the dim room around a circular

table.  They are holding hands.  Only candle light.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - NIGHT - UPSTAIRS

In Bones' old room, the temperature between Cinn and Patrick

goes from PG to R.

The two kiss passionately, deeply -- Cinnabar loses herself

for a long beat -- then as if swimming up from the bottom of

a deep pool, she pulls herself back.

EXT. PEARL'S STOREFRONT - NIGHT

From outside, through the open window, we can hear the

strains of singing coming from her window.

INT. PEARL'S PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

We float around the members of Pearl's circle.  See objects

on the table flickering in the candlelight.

Still singing, they all glance about them in darkness as if

they can make out the spirits around them.

Over the low bass of their hymn-singing, her voice cuts in.

Uncoiling and rising like smoke in the air: it's a beautiful

voice and it does seem to open a window in the air.

INT. BONES' ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Cinnabar gets into bed and turns off the light.  Pitch dark

in there, can't see a thing.

As she's drifting off to dreamland, she hears what sounds

like the door quietly opening and someone slipping into the

darkness of the room, we just stay on her face.

It's cold in the place.  And spooky.  So she doesn't mind

when she feels what she assumes is Patrick slip in bed beside

her.  Though we see only a shape sliding under the covers.

INT. PEARL'S PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

Suddenly, the curtains fly open.  And Pearl's voice suddenly

stops... and the flame on the candle shoots up, scorching the

ceiling before returning to normal.

The flowers whither.  They retch from some smell.

Table rocks once.

Table rocks once.

Table rocks twice -- "no."

Table rocks twice -- "No" again.  She goes around the room,

inquiring for each of them.  Each time the table says "No."

Until there is only her left.  An eerie pause.

The table starts bucking wildly.  And suddenly Pearl's neck

SNAPS back like it's been caught in a whip.

Her mouth opens and a low moan escapes.  But sounds nothing

like her voice.  A deep wind through an organ tube with

swarming bees and squealing hogs mixed in.

Everyone around the table just stares at her in alarm.

As her eyes widen.  Go super close on her eyes and we see a

reflection in her pupil, not of the room she is in, but the

Jimmy's building twenty years ago.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - PAST/PRESENT

INTERCUT with her face back in the seance staring wide

mouthed in her trance.

The sound of her heart pounds like the deepest dub track.

Total dislocation for her as she sees Jimmy's old room, as it

was -- but also sees it as it is now, and with her daughter,

Cinnabar, lying underneath the covers of the big, round bed.

And lying close beside her, another figure beneath the

covers.

Whoever is there snuggles closer to Cinnabar.  She responds

as he presses against her, then wakes up.

But he doesn't.  The movement beside her is undulant.

Strong, erotic, she almost gives into it.  And still laughs

as she says:

The figure in the bed presses urgently against her, in a

rocking movement which catches her up in it.  She can't help

it, she begins to respond to the urging behind her.

Pearl's eyes widen as the whole room shifts and becomes one

fetid Necropoliptic texture.  The bed retains its shape but

liquefies, seems to become one with the floor and the walls,

all made of a kind of thick, bloody-mud in which the trapped

faces and distorted limbs of the dead twist and moan.

Meanwhile, on that strange bed, the figure behind Cinnabar

seems to wrap soft limbs around her, locking her in embrace.

But it doesn't cut out.  It builds.  Strong.  Erotic.

Insistent.  She almost gives in to it.

But the movement is more insistent.  And rougher.  She starts

to protest louder when she feels a hand, or something, steal

across her mouth to muffle her objections.

Pearl tires to reach across her vision to grab her daughter

and help her, but she can't.

INT. PEARL'S PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

Back at the seance, Pearl's back is arched like a bass fiddle

string bowed, and then drops.  Released.  Back in her chair.

The instant she's returned to herself she's out of her chair

and out the door.

INT. BONES' PAD - CONTINUOUS

Cinnabar struggles with something in the bed, the covers

pulled tight against her face, she can't scream.  She twists

and wrenches herself about, finally striking behind her with

a flailing fist, twists her face free and screams:

Across the room the door suddenly opens -- it's Patrick.

ANGLE - AT PATRICK'S FEET

The black silhouette of the DOG slips out the door.

Cinnabar looks wildly around the room -- she's alone in the

big bed.  No one attacking her.  And she sees Patrick in the

doorway.  But then who - or what - was in the bed?

Suddenly, her mother yells from below.

Cinnabar lurches out of the bed over to the window.  Down

below, her mother's going nuts at the entrance, pounding on

the door and practically running over Bill who's opening the

door.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Cinnabar races down the stairs with Patrick, bewildered at

her heels.

Cinnabar runs out the door and straight into her mother's

arms, burying her face in the protective bosom of her mom.

Pearl wraps her frightened daughter in her arms and turns her

to home.  Pearl looks up at the boys standing stunned in the

doorway.

She turns back towards her place, still holding the sobbing

Cinnabar.  Bill and Patrick stand stunned in the doorway.

EXT. BLACKSTONE - DAY

Up on a ladder, the boys put on the finishing touches and

then HANG a new NEON SIGN over the door.  Looks pretty cool.

Heading south on Lake Shore Drive, a tensely smiling Patrick

in the front seat with Jeremiah.

EXT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Heading off the main road into the ghetto.  But as they head

further and further south, Jeremiah's getting uneasy.

Now they are on the old street.  As they drive down the

street, Jeremiah's getting more and more agitated.

EXT. BLACKSTONE - CONTINUOUS

They park and get out.  He looks up and down the street,

oddly frightened.

It's the building.  Freshly painted, with the neon sign.  But

Jeremiah's face shows nothing like what Patrick expected.

Nothing but a horrified, angry disgust.

Jeremiah's so angry he almost smacks Patrick.

Jeremiah is furious out of all proportions.  Some of the

others on the block have stuck their noses out to see what

the fuss is.  Then Jeremiah comes eye to eye with Pearl,

standing across the street, watching, worried out of her

mind.

trapped, humiliated.  He wants out of this street.  Out of

those glances.

Nobody moves.  Jeremiah walks back to his car and pulls away.

Patrick, frozen, turned to stone by rage and hurt and shame.

Another car pulls up.  Several young people inside.  They

look around a little dubiously.

They all look at each other.  Silent.  Until Maurice answers

by flipping a switch igniting the neon sign for the first

time.

Illibent shines in brilliant blue gas letters.

DOWN THE BLOCK - LATER

The deuce and a quarter stops in front of a storefront.  A

young Nefertiti in platforms and dashiki picks fresh fruit

and vegetables from the small grocery.  PEARL VAUGHN.

Pearl's picking ripe fruit.  Jimmy steps in, catches her

hands, and the melon in them, in his hands.

He strokes his thumb over the end of the cantaloupe, leaning

in to her.

She chooses the latter, they kiss.

EXT. STREET - TIME CUT

Jimmy's walking Pearl home; an apartment above the storefront

of her mother's fortune telling business.

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - LATER

Jimmy arrives home to be greeted on the steps of his building

by soul shakes and black hand fives from the corner boys

hanging out front.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Follow Bones into the lobby with people waiting to see him

for favors, etc.  Rooms on either side, doors open allowing

us to glimpse his crew, taking orders over the phones.

An old fashioned metal cage elevator, with an equally old

fashioned operator waits to take Mr. Jimmy up to his pad.  We

ride up with him, the king in his castle.

INT. BONES' PAD - CONTINUOUS

The elevator lets him out in his main room.  A '70's love

pit.  Mirrored ceiling, circular bed.  Thick shag carpeting.

Jimmy nods at Shotgun, who lowers the needle into classic

vinyl groove of some prime Funkadelic ("Nappy Dug-out").

Jimmy splashes cologne on his face and looks contentedly out

the window at all his people, at his kingdom below...

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - LATER - DAY

The cop we saw with Jeremiah, LUPOVICH, and the wannabe

player EDDIE MACK (wearing an old Superfly suit, and sleek

black driving gloves) pull up in front of the old stone

building.

INT. BONES' PAD - CONTINUOUS

Shotgun mixes drinks at the bar and hands them to the just

arrived guests, Jeremiah, Officer Lupovich - looking stiff in

plain clothes - and Eddie Mack in his purple suit.

Bones says nothing.  Just nods at the cop.

Bones' look sez: Bitch, don't call me that again.

Eddie pulls a little rock of crack out.  Jimmy takes it in

his hand and sniffs it.  Then shrugs and hands it back.

Jimmy just walks away from him.  Meeting over.  Eddie and

Lupovich and Jeremiah all look at each other, frustrated.

Lupovich turns but then spins back around with a .45 in his

hand and it's pointed at Jimmy's forehead.  Jeremiah didn't

expect this - or did he?

He hands him the rock.  And a little pipe.

Bones keeps his eye on him as he lights the lighter and takes

a deep puff.  Then lets out a deep cloud of smoke.

His eyes go a bit glazed.  And from his POV we see the room

start to tilt on its axis as everything goes wobbly.

Just then, the door opens and Pearl steps in, distracting

Lupovich for an instant.

In one eternal crack fueled fast-and-slo-mo second: Jimmy

sees his chance, he pulls his razor, but too slow --

Lupovich turns, the razor no more than lightly slices his

arm, and he pulls the trigger on Jimmy Bones...

Pumping three shots into Jimmy's abdomen, knocking him to the

ground.  Shotgun grabs his gun, but too late.  He's covered.

Pearl in screaming shock.  Her lover bleeding on the carpet.

Bones is bleeding, and still tripping bad.

Shotgun gently puts his hand on Pearl's mouth to quiet her.

BACK IN BONES' FUCKED-UP POV:

Looking down he sees his own blood pouring out, a thick

divine river of many colors.  Looking up, they all stand

wavering above him, hungry demons, their voices distorting.

Mack plucks Bone's silver razor right out of his hands.

Eddie pulls his glove off and enjoys himself as he shoves the

razor into Jimmy.

Jeremiah gets down near Bones.  Bones stares right into his

eyes, as his life blood pours freely, weakly lifts his arm to

his best friend's face.

Jeremiah feels Lupovich's gun behind his head.  Hears it

cocked.

And he thrusts Bones' razor right between the ribs.  Bones'

eyes tighten, but never lose their lock on Jeremiah's eyes.

His mouth moves as if he's trying to speak.  Instead, he

spits a bog of blood right into Jeremiah's face.

A shaken Jeremiah hands the bloody razor to Shotgun.

Bones' eyes bore into Shotgun's.  Shotgun hesitates.  Eyeing

his gun on the floor, feeling the one on the back of his neck

-- calculating his chances.

Then Shotgun slices him.  Bones flinches, he definitely still

feels it.  Shotgun hands the razor back to Eddie.

She takes the razor and slowly kneels beside her dying lover.

Her hands trembling.  There's no way she can do it.  Lupovich

brings the gun to the back of her head.

Bones reaches one hand round the back of her neck, weakly

storking her there... And with his other hand, Bones takes

her wrists and pulls her hand towards him, burying his razor

in his heart.  His eyes roll back and his hand falls away and

he's gone.

She drops her hand from the razor which remains sticking out

of his chest, a river of blood pouring from around it.

BONES POV

As his spirit rises and rises, up to the ceiling, looking

down on them as they stand watching his body bleed to death.

Pearl just stands there completely covered in his blood.

Then in a frantic daze tears her dress off.  Jeremiah gently

takes her bloody dress.

From above, Bones can hear them speaking below, but it's as

if they were speaking far away.

Shotgun and Lupovich drag Bones' body out of the room,

leaving behind a deep wet blood stain in the shag carpet.

BONES POV

As he stares down in horror at all this.  Above him, it seems

he can see right through the ceiling to the night sky, and a

swirling light opening above his head.

NOW HIS POV

Is floating upward towards the light, but then he looks

Staring down at the sight of his body in a deep puddle of

blood, and his murderers removing his woman's dress covered

with is blood.  As he sees this, his (and ours) POV changes,

becomes darker, yet clearer; too sharp, razor sharp as some

softness, perhaps life itself, drains out of it.  Bones sees

his best friend Jeremiah and Lupovich together dragging his

body out the door, leaving a thick wet stain behind him.

We can hear Jimmy's last wail of rage twist and distorts in

the air, becoming another deeper voice within the voice...

And then he (and we) plunge back down to the ground, right to

the dark, wet stain in the carpet...

Hit it and go down through an instant's glimpse into the

black sea beneath the foundation of the world:

Necropolis.  Where space itself seems to be made of pale

bloated, gnawing, writhing things.  Bodies perpetually

devouring themselves and each other.

We see through this dog-eat-dog nightmare, back out through

the blood stain as through a key hole slowly closing.

EXT. CLUB - LATER

A line out front.

Patrick alternates between tending the crowd and throwing

anxious glances down the block towards Cinnabar's home.

Torn between exhilaration at seeing his dream come true and

disappointment that Cinnabar's not there to share it.

People chomping to get in.  Across the street Shotgun watches

with dismay.

Patrick hears voices down the street.  Looks up to see

Cinnabar walking towards the club.  His smile freezes when he

sees Pearl right behind her.  Trying to stop Cinn.

Pearl sees she can't stop Cinn.  Any more than her mother

could have stopped Pearl when she was her age.

She can only watch as Cinnabar gives Patrick a big hug and

follows him and the rest of the crowd into the club.

INT. THE BUILDING/CLUB - CONTINUOUS

The place is unfinished.  But all the cooler for it.  The bar

is crude.  Cheap beer and jug wine.  But the crowd don't

mind.  The place is alive.  The boys are on fire.

A packed floor of dancers move as sound and image break beat,

and Maurice's voice erupts in deep dub reverb.

Hits the reverb and it echoes.

ON SCREENS

Throughout the house, the video interviews the guys did and

mixed like audio samples with old blaxploitation clips and

other video oddities the boys came up with.

And over Maurice's Gothic drum and bass, Bill starts

turntabling some seriously dark funk.

INTERCUT WITH THE BLACK DOG

coming ominously down the third floor stairs.

The dog now on the second floor stairs.

Bill builds, lets the record spin, then pops the kill button.

The tune fades in a distorted way as he start/stops/start/

stops it, forcing the sound backwards and forwards...

...as Maurice twiddles dials and distorts it all further --

it's spooky, but way funky.

NEW ANGLE - THE BLACK DOG

Is now in the house too.  Walking through the throbbing

crowd, making a path right through them, most of the dancers

paying it no mind, it's just another part of the trippy

scene.  Or do they even see it?  We can't tell.

CLOSER ANGLE - ON THE DOG

And it's single-minded concentration.  Staring straight ahead

as it moves through the crowd towards Maurice, who for a

second, notices the dog coming but making nothing of it.

REVERSE - THE DOG'S POV

What it's staring at.  Bones' old ring on Maurice's finger.

NEW ANGLE - MAURICE'S POV

When he looks back, he sees not a dog, but a beautiful black

woman, a Dark Lady, who only has eyes for him.

Dancing seductively, drawing a crowd as she moves, she stares

straight ahead at Maurice.

Maurice's joint droops from the corner of his mouth as he

realizes "YES!", this world-class beauty is most definitely

flirting with him.

The Dark Lady's still throwing him deep looks as she dances

off the floor and then disappears up the stairs, making

Maurice lean into Bill.

Maurice heads upstairs, sure that his short DJ career is

already paying off big time.

INT. UPSTAIRS - CONTINUOUS

Maurice slips into the darkness of the room and closes the

door behind him.

In the darkness he can't see where she is.  Just hear a deep

breathing, almost panting.

He can't see her.  Or anything in the dark room.  Finally his

eyes adapt to the dark and he sees a dark shape by the bed.

He pulls out a lighter to light his joint (and see where she

is) but when he does it's not her beautiful dark features he

sees, but:

For the blink of an eye, it's totally blank face, except for

a HUGE MOUTH with liver lips, pink gums and wolfen teeth.

When it exhales, out comes a noxious cloud of tiny insects.

And then in the blink it's the raging black dog leaping open

jawed at his face.

Maurice screams and drops his light in fright.  He starts

crawling towards the door and the overhead light switch.

While trying to fend himself from the wailing teeth and claws

of the canine creature...

INT. THE CLUB - CONTINUOUS

Maurice's screams are inaudible.  Just another faint part of

the complicated mix.  Maurice's voice, a sample loop, is part

of the boys' mix.

INT. UPSTAIRS - CONTINUOUS

Furious flashes and glimpses of savage teeth and claws

ripping Maurice.

INT. THE CLUB - CONTINUOUS

Bill's extended turntablism rocks the house.  Tia replaces

Patrick behind the bar while Cinnabar drags him on to the

dance floor.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

Bones-vision moves/floats all the way down to the basement.

He squats over his own corpse.

Before our eyes (INTERCUT with flashes of the demon-dog

feasting on Maurice upstairs), more and more flesh grows on

the bones of Bones.

INT. DANCE FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

Bill signals Patrick, calling him over.

INT. UPSTAIRS - CONTINUOUS

Patrick walks upstairs - we fear he will be next.

He tries a door.  Nothing.  Then he hears noises from the

third floor.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Patrick opens the remaining bedroom door on a nightmare

tableaux.  Maurice lies in a pool of blood.  His body shakes

and shudders spasmodically as the dog feasts on his liver.

Patrick starts for Maurice but the dog growls to keep him

back away from its precious food.  Patrick backs up a step.

Almost out of his mind with terror.  He really loses it when

the dog, in SLO-MO, looks up and directly at him.  It seems

to be wearing Maurice's face and speaks with a twisted

version of his (Maurice's) voice:

And before Patrick can even freak, the dog has returned to

it's normal dog face, and it lunges at Patrick, taking a

sizeable bite out of his arm.

Patrick leaps back out the door, with only a fast glance back

at the thing in the room --

The dog is not following him.  It's standing.  Over Maurice's

remains.  Growling low, it begins to shudder uncontrollably

to bulge and ooze.

The gore covered dog quivers and swells and bulges and

finally explodes into a shower of pulsating maggots, flying

all over the room and all over Patrick's eyes and in his

mouth.

INT. BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

The body is now done.  It looks whole again.  Even strong and

young.  If still gray and cold until Bones lies down, curls

up into the body filling the rejuvenated corpse with the

vital life force of his vengeful rage.

Bones/The Body opens his eyes, stands up not tottering as

before but filled with strength.  He looks as good as new,

except for the tattered clothes.

ON THE DANCE FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

The dancers can't hear Patrick screaming or running down the

stairs.  They're just groovin' along to Ill Bill and the

funk.

Until the maggots start oozing and pouring through the

ceiling onto their hair and faces and clothes, into their

drinks at the bar and onto their pizza slices.

Then Patrick comes into the room screaming and all hell

breaks loose as the sight of him, plus the maggots, sends

everyone tearing for the exits.

Seeing his brother in terror, Bill slams the tone arm

screeching the needle across the record, leaving only the

psycho drum and bass playing on the other channels of the

mix.

INT. BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

Meanwhile, down below, the freshly embodied Bones studies the

gas furnace.  This time when he bends down to blow out the

light -- wooosh, he blows it out.  He reaches under the tank

and the gas hisses out.

Then he eyes his old razor on the floor.  With a confident,

strong grip, he picks it up and now, finally --

BONES IS BACK IN BUSINESS.

INT. DANCE FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

Hell-maggots still falling onto people, maggots on the floor

making people slip and fall as they jam the exits.  Screaming

chaos, people trying to break windows to get out faster...

Patrick looks across the chaotic room and sees Cinnabar and

Tia cringing under a table.  Trapped there.  Bill in the

doorway trying to get people out.

INT. BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

At the top of the stairs, leading up out of the sub basement,

Bones smashes the bulb of the hanging light.  Then flips the

light switch -- the spark ignites the gas behind him.  It

causes a fiery explosion in the lower basement.

The fire's light seems the very glow of hellfire behind Bones

as he marches up the stairs, razor in his hand.

INT. DANCE FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

Patrick, trying to stay low, crawls his way to where his

sister and Cinnabar are trapped.

Fire begins to burn through from the kitchen and up through

the floor.  The room is filling with smoke.

Bill's helping those trampled in the rush to get out.  Bill

himself bleeds badly from his neck.

Patrick runs with Cinnabar and Tia toward the door.  And as

the smoke fills the room, through the haze we see:

Bones step into the room.  His arm raised with the razor.

And he flings it out, like a boomerang, the razor flies

around the room.

It swoops down through the smoke at the remaining kids,

hacking at them through the smoke, like some savage bird,

though it doesn't seem intent on slaughtering them, but

rather herding them out.  Bill and Patrick pull Cinnabar and

Tia out the door -- they're the last in the room.

Suddenly the razor stops, freezes in mid-air and zips back

into Bones' waiting fist - just like a boomerang.

Razor held high, Bones advances on them, steadily, cool as

ice amidst the now fully burning house.

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Shotgun, Pearl and a few others have run out into the street

to watch the fire.  In the distance, sirens already wail.

Pearl holds her breath until she sees Cinnabar safe.

Looking for an instant, they all see Bones as the room is

engulfed in flames.  See him raise his fists in a rage.  Or

is it in triumph?  Before his figure is obscured by falling

debris.

Sirens wail as fire trucks pull up and the men start

unrolling a hose.  But freeze at the cocking of the shotgun.

The rising flames illuminate the faces of spectators.

Especially shotgun and Pearl, who for the first time in 20

years, look each other straight in the eyes.

Her flame-reflecting eyes telling us her fear: this may be a

huge mistake.

INT. BONES' HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

In the burning room, we see Bones, oblivious to the flames,

climbing the stairs.

INTO HIS HOLD ROOM WHERE

He comes to what's left of Maurice.  Finds his hand bloodied

and barely attached to the wrist, and on it -- Bones' ring.

Bones slips it onto his stump of a finger.

INT. POLICE STATION - CONTINUOUS

Patrick and the others sit ashen-faced under questioning by

cops and arson investigators.

He breaks down.  Just then, Jeremiah walks in with a lawyer.

INT. PEARL'S STOREFRONT - CONTINUOUS

Cinnabar is crying, Pearl holding her.

Jeremiah drives his still shocked and silent brood back to

safety behind the gates of Rossmore Park.

INT. PEARL'S STOREFRONT - CONTINUOUS

Cinnabar, listening to her mother, is told what happened.

Cinnabar runs crying out of the room.

EXT. BACK ON THE STREET - PRE-DAWN

The building is finished, just a blackened shell.  Remnants

of the staircase lead up to fragments of the upper floors.

Smoke still billowing from the empty center of the ruin.

Silhouetted in the smoke and the low light of the rising sun:

a tall, dark figure, not of then, nor quite of now.

It is Bones.  Taller, thinner, darker and more menacing then

ever.  But unmistakably Bones.  He steps out of the rubble.

And looks across the street, up at Shotgun's lit window.

INT. SHOTGUN'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Shotgun's hand shakes as he pours another shot.  Then downs

it.  He turns to the window and freezes at what he sees.

Bones face is just outside the window.  The second story

window.  Smiling in at him.  Shotgun is petrified.  But then

he picks up his gun and shoots at the face in the window.

Shotgun whirls and there stands Bones behind him now.

He just walks towards the terrified Shotgun, closer and

closer, leaning right over his shotgun, his face coming just

inches from Shotgun's face.

His big brown eyes fill Shotgun's vision, and in what now

seem to be the gigantic pupils in Bones' eyes, Shotgun sees

the old apartment, and there it all is again and again.

Shotgun sees himself hesitating, almost risking it all and

instead giving in, stabbing Bones -- he can't look away.

Then Bones closes his eyes.  Shotgun sobbing now.

Shotgun is cradling his weapon, hands shaking.  He points it

at Bones and pulls the trigger.  Bones doesn't even flinch as

the pellets rip through him.

Bones' impossibly long fingers hold his long rusty razor.  He

waves the razor in front of Shotgun, the rusty blade swinging

free back and forth, hypnotically, with a rasping sound.

And then in one swift motion, on the back stroke, Bones' hand

and razor slash across Shotgun's throat.

Shotgun doesn't even have time to scream, we just hear his

breath and blood escaping from the new opening across his

neck.

Bones bends down and cradling his old friend, whispers gently

into his ear.  Singing, perhaps.  We can't quite hear.

Bones gets up and moves around the room, standing before the

window and looking down at the neighborhood he used to own.

For a second he sees the old neighborhood, everybody hanging

out.  Then he blinks back to reality.  He looks down the

block and sees Pearl's reader and advisor sign.

INT. JEREMIAH'S HOUSE - DAY

Bill in a kind of shock can only lie in his bedroom, staring

at the ceiling.

Tia's out in the living room, sitting on the couch weeping in

her mother's arms.

Patrick's in the bathroom tending the bloody scratches on his

back and arms.  He's frightened.  And angry.  He storms out

of the bathroom, down the hall to his father's office.

INT. JEREMIAH'S STUDY - CONTINUOUS

As Patrick slams the door behind him, Jeremiah hides a stack

of papers and photos beneath a pile on his desk.

Jeremiah can't answer.  But Patrick's not leaving it alone.

EXT. BLACKSTONE STREET - NIGHT

That night we see a walking shadow.  The long tall black clad

Bones.  Heading down his old block.  Alone.

As he moves, his face changes, at times demonic and intent.

But periodically that shifts as if a mask slipping off to

reveal a similar but different face below.  More human, lost,

pained, confused, and we see why:

FROM BONES' FUCKED UP UNDEAD POV:

The dark and desolate street he walks down keeps flashing for

brief instants into the street of twenty years ago.

One moment, people nodding to him, waving, blowing kisses.

And then suddenly, it's the empty burnt block it is now.

Bones' face shifts, cracking, one second the hungry ghost.

The next, he's the old Bones who once ruled this 'hood.

He sees, down the block, the old palmistry sign.  It's

Pearl's place.  For a second, the face of the real Jimmy

Bones triumphs and he smiles.  Then hears voices behind him.

Stank and Weaze.  They see a tall, thin figure in some very

fine looking, long duster.

Suddenly, out from the depths of his shadow, flies the edge

of Bones' razor and the blade slashes Stank in the face.

Cutting a sideways, smart aleck smile in his cheek.

Weaze pulls a gun and shoots Bones.  Bones jolts a little as

the bullet imbeds itself in his stomach.  But he takes it

like a punch and looks up.

He grabs one of the boys in each long hand and hoists them up

to his height and pins them against the wall.

INT. PEARL'S PARLOR - NIGHT

Pearl sits alone, drinking.  Maybe crying a little.  Her

hands shuffle large tarot cards.  She lays her own spread.

First card face down.  Second card face up.

THE LOVERS.

And across it the third is laid: the crumbling Tower.

Then she slips the first card, the down-turned card out and

flips it face up.  Death.  Suddenly a long black shadow falls

over the table.

She finally looks up at him.

His face quivers and we see from his POV:

Pearl - then and now.  Again, then and now.

She grabs his hand, tries to stab herself with his razor.

But he resists.  Pulls his arm free.

She hurls herself at him.  Slapping him.  Slamming her fists

against his shadowy chest.

He looks down at her.  His face wavering between the true

face of Jimmy Bones and the angry Bones ready to kill her.

Then he wraps his arms around her and they kiss.  She faints,

the cards in her fist fluttering to the floor.

He lays her gently down.  When suddenly Cinnabar throws the

door open.

She and Bones make eye contact.  She sets eyes for the first

time on the father she's never known.  And in the blink of

her eye, he's gone.  She runs to where her mom lies on the

floor.

EXT. BLACK CAT POOL CLUB - NIGHT

Stank and Weaze with Eddie Mack, who's getting a manicure

from a coke whore.

But he's not about to shoot him.  He leans over and snorts a

line of white powder off the mirrored tray.

At the very sound of the name, Mack freezes.  Then with

sudden coke-fueled ferocity, he whips around and starts

smacking the shit out of Stank, breaking his nose.  The coke

whore cheering Eddie on.  Wanting to see more action.

INT. PEARL'S STOREFRONT - NIGHT

Cinnabar pours some bourbon into a coke for her mother.  But

Pearl just grabs the bottle and takes a straight hit.

INT. BLACK CAT POOL CLUB - NIGHT

The lights are low and only the glow of the jukebox and the

sounds of Harold Melvin and the Bluenotes as Mack and his

manicurist get down on the pooltable, beside an ornate mirror

laden with two gold '45s and an ounce of cocaine.  Which they

are both doing to excess.

Mack's wearing nothing but a black hat and black satin briefs

(not a pretty sight).  Working now on her blouse.

She laughs and gets up.

He watches her sashay to the other room where the juke box

is.  Then bends over the mirror to do a new line.

From the other room, the song changes.  A deep menacing

rolling funk number.

INT. CLUBROOM - CONTINUOUS

"Baby's" standing wide-eyed next to the jukebox, staring at

Bones, his razor pressed against her quivering lips.

INT. BLACK CAT POOL CLUB - CONTINUOUS

Mack's wondering where she is.

He walks doing a little funky Rufus Thomas shuffle to the

music.  He steps into the club room.  It's dark, lit only by

the jukebox.  But it's empty.

Then he sees something.  Her legs on the floor, sticking out

behind the jukebox.  He walks towards her, slowly...

Then sees the deepening pool of blood pouring across the

floor right towards him.  Whatever happened to her, she's

beyond his help now.

He whips around but can't see anyone.  He strides defiantly

back into the pool room.

Mack picks up the two gold plated revolvers off the mirror

with coke on it.  Suddenly all the coke moves on its own.

The many grams piled there, all merge into one pile.

He bends down to check it out.  And the coke actually flies

straight up off the mirror with the force of a punch and

shoots like a fire hose straight up his nose.

He reels back, choking.  Coughing.  After having probably an

ounce fly straight up his snot-locker.  Blood pouring out his

nose.  Wobbly now.

He hears a low echoing laughter through the club, and the

sound of the cue ball breaking and sending pool balls

spinning 'round the table.

Bones stands by the pool table, under the overhanging light.

He pulls out his razor and with one savage slice, splinters

the pool cue in two.

He fires both guns at Bones, while backing away.  Bones don't

feel a thing.  He just picks up the mirror and holds it up

facing Mack.

Mack sees his own terrified face staring back from the

mirror, belling hanging over his briefs, coke and blood

clotted on his face.

Mack shoots wildly at Bones.  At the mirror - blasting it

into shards.

But Bones stands unscathed.  And the shards of broken mirror

do not fall to the ground.  They remain in the air, forming a

living room swarm of razor sharp glass.

Mack turns and runs, waaaaay too fucking late, as the swarm

of glass shards fly like angry wasps right at him

Eddie's thrown forward by the sheer force of them, and is

skewered throughout his body by all the glass fragments.

Pinned -- face mashed against the wall.

Mack pinned to the wall.  Bleeding from everywhere.  Snot

blood-coke mess drips out his nose.  Bones pulls Mack's head

back by his hair and slides his razor into the half inch

between his Adam's apple and the wall.

As the juke box changes song, we hear a liquid slice and a

scream slip into a gurgle.

Bones' long hands drip blood as he ties something to his

belt.  We don't quite see what it is, not until we catch the

sight of Eddie Mack's headless remains pinned to the wall.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lupovich is at his desk, finishing off a huge Polish sausage.

Talking on the phone.  A cop named SAL is nearby, tidying up.

EXT. ALLWAY - NIGHT

Bones walks the night with a slicing stride.  His legs

stretching too far and somehow covering long distance in an

instant.  And in slo-motion, like a nightmare, marionette, a

walking shadow, or some great black grasshopper.

Bones stops for a moment and looks down at his waist and we

see Mack's severed head tied to Bones' belt.  Severed, yet

seemingly alive.

Bones got no time to argue.  He bends and picks up a handful

of fetid city garbage.

And shoves it into the still talking mouth of Mack.

EXT. SOUTHWEST SIDE - NIGHT

Bright, loud summer night.  Blues coming from inside a blues

bar, the guy playing "Killin' Floor".

Lupovich heads toward the Armor building.  From a distance,

he sees a young runner emerge from a passage on the farside

of the building then set off to meet his mark.  Lupovich

heads for the passage, the music following him.

Lupovich looks around to make sure no one is watching.  Then

slips into a passageway leading to the old slaughterhouse.

A scary walk through inky darkness, scattered with broken

glass and scurrying rats and lit only by the eerie red light

spilling like blood out of the open door into the old

slaughterhouse at the end of the way.

Lupovich reaches the back, right next to the old loading dock

where the still-livestock were unloaded.  He enters the door,

disappearing into the red darkness.

INT. SLAUGHTERHOUSE BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

The room, large and open, soaked in the sodium vapor that

streams through the tall windows from the streetlights.

There are a few blood rusted meat hooks still there, backlit,

hanging from the ceiling.  Graffiti covers the walls with

arcane tags and symbols.  The floors are caked with a sticky

grime turned black in the orange haze.

In the far corner burn three red votive candles.  Behind the

candles lies a crumpled brown paper bag.  The stash.

Lupovich starts over to the corner, twitching at the gross

sound of his shoes sticking to the layers of old coagulated

blood on the killing floor.

Behind him, framed for an instant int he doorway - a tall,

sharp shadow, a walking razor - Bones!

The walk is tense.  Somehow the music has followed him here

and is echoing and wailing in the walls around him.  He gets

to the corner, and reaching over the candles, opens the top

of the paper bag.  Jackpot.  Five ziplocks of the rocks.

He hears a noise.  Lupovich fumbles for his gun and at the

same time reaches to snatch the stash bag.  His wrist touches

the candles flame and it burns.

He hears another noise, a blade scraping on concrete, right

behind him.  Now the music blends with the echoing squeals of

the hogs once butchered on the cutting line.

Lupovich hears another noise, a blade scraping on concrete,

right behind him.  Now the music blends with the echoing

squeals of the hogs once butchered on the cutting line.

Lupovich turns and there, towering over him, stands Bones.

And just as startling, there's Mack's laughing severed head

swinging from his belt.

Lupovich can only choke on his terror, and while his mouth is

open, Bones shoves a glass pipe into it.

Brandishing his razor, Bones packs a rock into the bowl and

torches it.  He holds the razor to Lupovich's throat.

Lupovich, trembling, takes a massive hit of the crack deep

into his lungs.  The music and the sounds of the dying pigs

attack him as the coke fills his lungs and then his blood and

then his brain, his eyes starting to bug.

Bones then knocks the pipe from his lips and seals his hand

over Lupovich's mouth and nose.  He can't exhale.  The sounds

get louder, the grafted walls come alive.

Bones removes his hand revealing Lupovich's nose is fused

shut, and his mouth is simply gone, the skin flat where the

mouth used to be.

Lupovich's gotta lung full of crack, and no way to exhale.

Severed Mack laughs insanely as he sees Lupovich's eyes bulge

as his lungs start to strain under the agony.

His frenzied suffocation is nothing but pure torture.  While

he is still kicking with the fear and the drug rush, Bones

drags Lupovich to the middle of the room.

With one arm, Bones lifts the fat cop up and hooks him to one

of the meat hooks above.

As Lupovich squirms, Bones takes his blade, and shoves it in

just below Lupovich's sternum.  And a spray of blood paints

Bones and Mack's hanging head.

Thick crack smoke emerges from the wound and floats, foglike,

out of the chest cavity.  Bones then yanks the blade

southward and slices the cop's belly wide open.

We hear Lupovich's guts spill out on the floor.

The dope smoke wafts in the room four feet off the floor.

The song immolates itself.  Blood drips.  And Bones adds

another weight to his belt.

EXT. ROSSMORE PARK - NIGHT

Just round the corner from the entrance to the gated suburb.

Cinnabar and Pearl.  On foot.

Cinnabar walks up to the guard at the gate.  He picks up the

phone to check.

INT. PEET HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Phone rings.  Patrick grabs it.  But his father's already on

the other end.

EXT. ROSSMORE GATE - CONTINUOUS

The rent-a-cop hangs up the phone and shakes his head.

Cinnabar sees it's useless to argue and walks away.  Shocked

and hurt.  Back to where her mother stands in the shadows

outside the gates.

Hear a voice from the other side of the gate.

EXT. MAIN GATE - CONTINUOUS

As they sneak around the other side, a dark figure steps

right up to the main gates.

The rent-a-cop wakes up fast when he sees Bones standing in

front of him.

After all, how often does he come face to face with

everything he is there to keep out?  He hitches his belt in

best John Wayne style.

...but then he notices the two-severed heads swinging from

Bones' belt.  All three of them smile.

EXT. NORTH WOODED SIDE - CONTINUOUS

The other outer edge of the sub-development.  Patrick leads

them in through some bushes and behind some of the pipe and

power systems of the subdivision.

INT. JEREMIAH'S STUDY - CONTINUOUS

Jeremiah locks the door to his study.  Then he pulls out the

stack he hid on his desk.  A dusty manila envelope.  Inside

photos: the old days.  His first wife.  His first life.  Back

in the old neighborhood.  Him and his best friend Jimmy Bones

as children, teenagers and as adults.

And Bones stands right behind him.  Severed heads hanging

from his belt.

EXT. MAIN GATE - CONTINUOUS

A car drives up to the gate.  But no guard comes out to check

it out.  The driver of the car honks.  But no response.

Just the aimless squawk of the radio in the booth.  Can't

really see into the tooth.  The windows are splattered and

obscured by deep red stains.

INT. PEET HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Patrick runs in with Cinnabar and pearl, past a startled

Nancy.

But they run right past.  Though Pearl gives a kind of half

wave 'hi-hello.'

Patrick runs down the hall to his father's study.  The door's

locked.  From the inside, he pounds on it.

Bill and Tia stick their heads out to see what all the racket

is.

Bill and Patrick slam against the door.  Finally it gives way

and they both tumble through the broken door into the room.

INT. JEREMIAH'S STUDY - CONTINUOUS

But it's empty.  Jeremiah's not there.

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - NIGHT

A strange, greenish fog up and down the street emanating from

the burnt out shell of the building.

INT. BONES' BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

High in the center, where the master bedroom once was, we see

a kind of mirage forming.  Another image of the room still

there, vaguely, luminescent in the night.

INT. PEET HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

They're in shock.

They look around at the mess in the room.  Over turned chair.

Signs of struggle.  Spatters of blood.

She gets up to go.  Cinnabar stands too.

He steps out of the room and comes back with a gun and a

knife in a sheath on his belt.

Bill with a defiant "well, it can't hurt" look.  Nancy

appears in the doorway as they hurry out, seeing Bill with

the gun in his hand.

Nancy clings to Tia as the rest of them hurry down the hall.

INT. BONES' BUILDING/NECROPOLIS VERSION - ETERNAL NIGHT

It is Bones' old bedroom.  The Necropolois version.  The

floor, the walls, the furniture, everything in it -- formed

out of the wracked and twisted shapes of dead souls.

This is that same version of the room we've glimpsed before.

And it remains, even when the real room has burnt away.

INT. BONES' BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Bones there in the flesh, with Jeremiah on his knees.  Bones

untying the heads from his belt.

Bones shoves the screaming severed heads through the undead

wall of the Necropolis.

SEVERED HEADS POV

For only a flashcut moment, we see the heads see coming at

them - reaching for them.  Laughing at them.  The undead.

Bones wraps his long arm around Jeremiah's neck in a

brotherly choke hold.  Jeremiah terrified.

EXT. LAKE SHORE DRIVE - NIGHT

Pearl, Cinnabar, Bill and Patrick speed south by car.

Bill and Patrick look at Pearl like she might be crazy.  Then

they see Cinnabar next to her, glaring back at them.

Bones has Jeremiah on his feet now, leading him towards the

wall of the undead.

Suddenly, hands shoot out of the wall, only inches away from

Jeremiah's face!  He twists and turns to stay away from them,

but the long nails on one of the hands claw at his cheek.

While hungry mouths open from the palms of hands.

Bones pushing Jeremiah's face towards the grasping hands.

Bones rams Jeremiah's head (his eyes closed in fear) through

the Necropolis wall.

INT. NECROPOLIS WALL - CONTINUOUS

Jeremiah's head inside now.  Eyes still closed, head bobbing

in the jelly-like base that holds what he sees when he dares

to open his eyes.

Hideous malformed faces, genetic anomalies, the kinds of

faces that wound up in side-shows in less enlightened times.

All laughing and leering and glaring at Jeremiah.

FULL C.U. - LUPOVICH'S FACE AND HEAD

The skin peeling away like congealed jelly.  Lupovich tries

to talk to Jeremiah or to scream but nothing comes out.

Except for a hideous wobbling bubble.

For a subliminal moment, Jeremiah sees a figure trapped

inside the bubble.  His own figure, silently screaming to get

out.

NEW ANGLE

Suddenly, Jeremiah is screaming for real as Bones has just

yanked his head back out of the wall.

Bones sounding almost sympathetic to Jeremiah.  Almost.

EXT. BONES NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

Suddenly, as they round a corner onto Blackstone, they see

tendrils of an eerie greenish fog.  It seems to be emanating

from the still smoking remains of Bones' house.  Or perhaps

it is just the smoke, tinged only by the gaseous street

lights.

Then there's a shape and a thump!  The real terror of

thinking your car just hit a human being.

Then a face appears in the car window.  Just a homeless guy

shaking an angry fist at them.  Quickly, he's gone in the

fog.

Straining to see, Patrick stops, grabbing a flashlight from

his glove box.  They all get out.  Making their way through

the fog, glimpsing in darkened doorways, eerie shapes,

perhaps more of the dead out of Necropolis.

EXT. BEHIND THE BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

They arrive at the back side of the ruined building.

They search frantically in the dark amongst the tall weeds

abandoned junk and burnt rubble.

INT. BONES' BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jeremiah still with Bones, looking for a way out.

In a righteous fury, Bones headlocks Jeremiah again and rams

his head through the Necropolis wall.

OVER JEREMIAH'S SHOULDER - HIS POV

As he's back inside face to face with living dead mutations,

with Lupovich's head coming at him, it's mouth suddenly

opening to ten times its normal size, swallowing Jeremiah

whole.

BACK WITH BONES

Watching with some pity as the rest of Jeremiah, his legs and

feet are pulled into the wall and gone.  Accompanied by the

disappearing screams of the last of Jeremiah.

EXT. BEHIND THE BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

They search for the cellar door.  The night air is shattered

by a scream, at once very close and infinitely far.  Finally:

He's found a chipped gray storm door.  Patrick easily kicks

in the rotten wood revealing a dark tunnel of stairs leading

down beneath the ruins of the building into the sub-basement.

Patrick steps down into the darkness of the cellar, his

flashlight on.

INT. STORM CELLAR - CONTINUOUS

The group stoops low as they descend the stairs.  Beneath

wood supports, the dirt is reclaiming it, already a constant

trickle of dirty falling from between the boards.

In the dim, Patrick leads them, walking through a mass of

spider infested webs and, just ahead, is the sub-basement

where they originally found the body.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

Throwing debris aside, they come next through a small door at

the bottom of the stairs and enter the sub-basement.  Nearby

is the elevator shaft, a gaping hole in the ruins - but

recognizable as such.  The ceiling above them is nearly

collapsed, and over most of the room, the accumulated debris

and ruin from above has simply fallen through.

And what remains of the ceiling is still shifting, groaning,

coming apart.

Patrick shines his flashlight down to the ground, until:

He's found the hole that was Bones' hastily dug grave, but

there's nothing in it now but swarming white maggots.

She gets down on her hands and knees as Patrick shines the

light, but after a few frantic moments of digging, it's

clear:

Just then the sound of tremendous strain and creaking of

wood.  And the ceiling starts to give way.  They all scramble

for shelter, and then it gives way completely -- completely

blocking their way out.  They're trapped.

They all look in every direction for some glimpse of hope -

of a way out.  There is none.  Then they hear behind them: a

resonant "DING!"

TURNING - THEIR POV

Where moments before there was a gaping, ruined elevator

shaft, there is now a fully functioning elevator just as it

was in 1979, the doors opening to them in eerie slo-mo.

Pearl starts towards the open car.  The others trying to hold

her back.

She walks closer, peering into the dark recesses of the

elevator.  Maybe again a flash of visible movement inside.

Closer ever closer, until Pearl, almost entranced, steps in.

And once inside, there's no one, or no thing, there.  Pearl

is about to tell them "It's okay..." when suddenly the doors

of the elevator slide-slam shut.

Then they hear the elevator chain start to move and the

elevator starts to rise.  Cinnabar screaming louder.

INT. THE ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Pearl stands there, summoning all her courage for what she

knows she's going to have to face.  Watching the elevator

arrow as it climbs to the number three.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

Patrick and Bill beat on the door and try to pry it open.

Then they try jamming jagged boards into the opening, but

still to no avail.

PEARL'S POV

As a moment later, the car stops and the doors open onto:

INT. BONES' PAD - CONTINUOUS

Down to the last detail, exactly as it was 22 years ago, the

night Bones died.  Music playing (the Delfonics "Didn't I

Blow Your Mind This Time...")  The only new detail are the

dozens of candles romantically burning everywhere.

Pearl feels a soft touch on the back of her neck and spins,

finds Jimmy right behind, almost nuzzling her.  His face

hidden, though, in darkness.  Holding something in his hand,

behind his back.

She turns slowly, and we don't know what to expect.

Something horrible or something beautiful.

Finally, she's face to face, and it's Jimmy just as he was,

22 years ago.  All traces of the demonic are gone.  Pearl

melts as the Delfonics swell, Jimmy holding her close.

We see what he's holding: the dress.  Rotted and blood

clotted and ruined.

He holds it up for Pearl to see and from:

HER POV

The dress is brand new and beautiful.  She's finally

entranced.

INT. THE SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

Patrick, Bill and Cinnabar have managed now to pry open the

elevators outer doors.  They step inside on the soft ashen

ground and look up:

THEIR POV

The shaft goes all the way into eternity.  But along the

tacked walls, they see hand and footholds put there for

workers.

One by one they start to climb, Bill first.  As they climb,

they become aware of light on the first floor level just

ahead.

BACK IN BONES' CRIB

Pearl steps into the frame to look at herself in a floor

length mirror on Bones' closest door.

PEARL'S POV - IN THE MIRROR

Not only the dress, but she too looks exactly as she was 22

years ago, skin smooth as cocoa butter, eyes free from worry

and pain.

Roberta Flack's "Killing Me Softly" as Jimmy takes her in his

arms and starts to slow dance her in the midst of all those

candles.

Pulls her closer, closer, until her last misgivings are gone.

Whatever purpose she came with lost in the power of having

the impossible.

INT. THE ELEVATOR SHAFT - CONTINUOUS

The three still climbing handhold by handhold, knocking loose

dirt in each others' eyes.  Bill is just now reaching the

first floor level, trying to force open the outer doors.

Suddenly, an ominous sound: the chain/mechanism of the

elevator as they see it starting to descend towards them.

Panicking, Bill tries with all his might.

As the elevator inches closer and closer --

Until Bill finally manages to get the doors open.  They all

scramble to safety just as the elevator slides by them.

NEW ANGLE

After they catch their breath, they look up and around to

find themselves --

INT. THE NECROPOLIS - CONTINUOUS

A distorted M.C. Escher-like feel to the place.  Where up

seems to be down, down up, and left is right.  Not helped by

behind only lit by the eerie flickering gaseous lamps

outside, and the moonlight falling through the skylight.

Then, slowly through the gloom, they begin to perceive that

the walls are clotted and congealed, teratomic masses of

distorted flesh; faces, limbs, eyes, mouths, all trapped -

all contorted in agony.  At first they seem to be frozen in

the walls, like the ruins of Herculaneum.  But then we see --

They are slowly writhing, moving.  Hands grasping, teeth and

rotted jaws widening, and worst of all, the eyes staring out.

As they approach the stairs they can hear faintly above the

drone/moan of the dead, the soft music playing in Bones'

crib.

ANGLE AS

They start up the stairs into the darkness.  Patrick first,

Cinnabar in between him and Bill.  Patrick still holding his

flashlight, but it's starting to flicker a little.

More of the same horror along the stairway walls, eyes

looking at them, hands caress Cinnabar's hair, another hand

shooting up from the stair floor and grabbing Bill's thigh.

Bill stabs the hand with the knife on his belt.  And the

hands shoot back down.

BACK IN BONES' CRIB

The Munch-like dance of death goes on, Bones stroking the

back of her neck.

Pearl absolutely lost.

BACK ON THE STAIRS

The three still ascending when Patrick's flashlight suddenly

cuts out.  Total darkness.

A faint sound: Patrick shaking the flashlight.  Nothing but

the sound of breathing, both human and non-human.

Then as suddenly as it went out, the flashlight comes back

on, illuminating a horrible sight: Maurice.  Standing right

there, a few feet in front of them.

Maurice puts a finger to his lips and beckons them to follow.

The boys want it to be Maurice.  But Cinnabar knows better.

But with the beam of the flickering flashlight, they follow

the shadowy figure up the steps.

Then Maurice gets a bit to far ahead, and they can't see him

for a beat.

Then after a silent beat, just Maurice's hand appears back

out of the darkness, beckoning them onward.  Then the

flashlight cuts out again.  They're back in the darkness.

The sound of Patrick cursing and shaking the batteries around

in the torch.  Eventually it comes on again.

Up ahead, they still barely see Maurice, his back to them,

face in one quarter profile, leading them towards the next

flight of stairs at the end of the hall.

They follow.  Closer and closer to the stairs, Maurice going

eerily in and out of their vision.  The flashlight dies

again.

Darkness.  Patrick shakes it and it comes back quickly.  Then

just as quickly dies again!  A shake and it's lit again --

just as Bill is stepping into the corner where Maurice

disappeared.

FLICKERING HORROR

As the dog leaps at them from the corner, all teeth and

slavering jaws!  Everyone scrambles for their lives, and the

flashlight falls to the floor.

LOW ANGLE FROM THE FLOOR - JUST BEHIND THE FLASHLIGHT

We see the skewed horror: as the dog tears at Bill, as his

gun skitters across the floor; as Patrick grabs the gun and

fires, and we get a bit more illumination from the exploding

gunpowder.  But it does no good.

Bill screams in terror as he's torn to pieces, and then the

flashlight goes out and again, we're in Stygian darkness.

The sound of Bill dying and a long silence.

No answer.  At first.  Finally in husky voice:

From somewhere comes the sound of the music from Bones' crib.

Silence.  As we expect the worse, expect something else to

take her hand.  But then:

Pause -- the music from Bones' crib still beckons to them.

We're in near total darkness as they climb the stairs, maybe

a bit of moonlight now coming in from the roofless third

floor they're approaching.  All we can hear is their

footsteps and their breathing as they walk the rest of the

way up the stairs and emerge into:

BONES' CRIB - THEIR POV

Both amazed to see Pearl as young and beautiful as Cinnabar

is, clinging to the dashing Jimmy dancing to the spectral

sounds of some soul classic from back in the day.  Cinnabar

entranced by the vision.

ANGLE AS

Pearl opens her dreaming eyes and sees them, smiling and

beckoning Cinnabar to come join her.  Cinnabar begins to.

Patrick watches her until he hears something O.S. calling to

him.  It sounds a million miles away and yet right in his

ear.  And it sounds like Jeremiah.

PATRICK'S POV

He turns and looks at the wall -- subtly surging from beneath

the surface of the wall he sees flashes of faces and hands,

mouths twisted in torment.  He moves to the wall, drawn by

the strange sight and the recurring sound...

It's coming from within the wall.

INTERCUTTING

Now, while Cinnabar is advancing towards her mother and

father across the room --

Patrick, at the wall, tries to place his ear near it in order

to hear where the voice is coming from.

While Cinnabar is now within Bones' reach.  Pearl steps back

to allow Jimmy to embrace Cinnabar.  They're reunited.

Pearl watches as Bones caresses his daughter's cheek.

Patrick now close to the wall -- trying to hear the faint

voice calling to him.

Suddenly something enormous presses out from the wall.

Patrick stumbles back as his father's head and torso press

out from the wall, stretched in straining effort.

Jeremiah, or what he's become embedded into the wall, his

face stretched, mouth huge and hollow eyes dripping bloody

tears.

Patrick in anguish.

Jeremiah's arm reaches out from the wall, grasping towards

Patrick, who reaches out to his father --

When suddenly with frightening speed Jeremiah grabs it, and

wrenches Patrick to him, pulling Patrick flush up against the

wall, even starting to suck him in to the wall.

As Patrick struggles and writhes and twists to get free from

his father's grasp, he can see back across the room to the

others.  He sees the room as it really is - he can see what's

really happening.

Pearl, not in a new dress, but in a horrible tattered, blood

encrusted old dress, standing next to a rotting cadaver

that's stroking Cinnabar's cheek and holding her close...

Jeremiah pulling Patrick into the wall, into the Necropolis

itself.  Patrick, though, just as concerned with Cinnabar as

with himself, yelling at her across the crib.

But Cinnabar doesn't even turn her head.  She just steps into

her father's embrace.  But Pearl does seem to hear something.

She looks back at Patrick, beneath the illusion of the room

she sees him being pulled into the awful wall, and can hear

him more clearly now.

Slowly, Pearl turns and looks into the mirror and she gets a

full-length view of herself: a woman in ruined tatters of her

old, rotted dress.

Then, coming into her view in the mirror is her only daughter

-- dancing with a decayed corpse.

Pearl whirls and rips Cinnabar away from Bones, who at first

sort of chuckles to himself.  But he stops laughing when

Pearl grabs the nearest candle and presses the flame to her

breast.  In a terrible whoosh, the dried old dress and Pearl

are engulfed in flames.

Bones runs to Pearl and throws his arms around her, trying to

smother the flames any way he can.

Cinnabar in a shattered daze on the floor, sees her mother in

flames.

Patrick desperately tries to escape his father's death grip.

Finally, with horrible sound, Patrick wrestles free from the

wall, and from his father.

He lurches free from them and makes it over to Cinnabar and

drags her out the door just as the room dissolves around

them.  As the flames destroy the dress and the last vestiges

of Bones' blood on it, the room begins to turn to ash.

An eerie wind from nowhere begins to howl, blowing the ash

and smoke from the dress and from the dissolving walls.

Cinnabar taking one last glance at the funeral pyre that was

her mother and Bones now, too, sees them almost lost in a

shroud of flame and ash.

ANGLE AS

Patrick and Cinnabar run down the corridor and back down the

stairs, the moon overhead and the flames from Bones crib

giving everything a flickering hellish cat.

Everything behind and above them crumbling to dust.  The

floor and then the stairs and all the howling bodies trapped

inside.

ON THE FIRST FLOOR

They reach the open elevator shaft.

Everything around them rumbling and crumbling.

Patrick jumps and lands in the muddy ashes, dazed but unhurt.

LOOKING UP

He sees Cinnabar peering over the edge in fear.  Then, behind

her, he can hear a low rumbling growl.  He sees Cinnabar turn

and scream --

Ashes and falling debris then temporarily blind hen he wipes

his eyes and looks up, Cinnabar is gone from view.

He immediately climbs back up the shaft when he sees Cinnabar

standing at the edge of the shaft above him.

And she jumps, landing right next to Patrick, who quickly

gets her to her feet.

They run out of the shaft and into the sub-basement just as

the elevator and shaft dissolve into ash.

A hurricane wind blowing down and out of the shaft now.

Mixed with the sound of all the screaming, moaning souls in

the Necropolis.

Patrick in a fury to live tears away the boards and debris

blocking the exit.

He pulls Cinnabar out with him and they walk up the cellar

stairs, step into the dawn, weary, beaten down but not dead.

EXT. BONES' BUILDING - DAY

They've made it out of the Inferno.  Like Dante said "Thus we

emerged again to see the stars."  No stars here, just the

glorious dawn.

Patrick stops, feels the new sun on his face.  Breathes clean

air again for the first time.

Then from behind or above or somewhere we can hear what might

be a low, low chuckle.  Jimmy Bones' chuckle.

Patrick turns and spins in mounting horror.  There, behind

him, right where Cinnabar was standing...

The black dog.  It leaps right at the camera, filling the

frame with huge teeth and bloody red tongue.  WE FREEZE.

