FADE IN:

EXT. MEDIEVAL VILLAGE - JUST BEFORE SUNSET

We see an Italian village at the height of the plague.  Funeral

processions, decrepit houses with their windows boarded up...

the stench of death all around.

TITLE:  EUROPE. THE DARK AGES

Through the filth a KNIGHT walks his horse.  He is weary but

not so dingy as his surrounding; a stranger in these parts.

He comes to an inn, where a boy takes his horse round back.

He enters the inn.

INT. INN - SAME TIME

The inn is dark and almost empty.  A couple of patrons drink

silently at tables.  Behind the bar stands a slovenly BARMAID,

dark-haired and lazy.  She scratches at her shoulder, on which

we see a birthmark.  The knight approaches the bar, throws

money down.

The barmaid pours him a cup of ale.  He drinks deep, stands a

moment.

INT. INN - UPSTAIRS HALL/BEDROOM - NIGHT

The barmaid leads the knight, by candlelight, upstairs to his

room.  The door opens inward.  The knight stands in the doorway,

places a hand on the barmaid's hip.  She pauses a moment, then

breaks free of his grasp, starts down the hall.  He laughs a

bit, resignedly, and closes the door.

A VAMPIRE stands behind it.  Not two feet from the knight,

grinning at him.  His eyes are skull-hollow and dancing in his

head, his bloody smile full with teeth.  His skin is gray, and

peeling.  The knight turns slowly and sees him.

The vampire licks his lips.

He is on the knight in a second, pushing him backwards into

the middle of the small room.  The knight struggles but is no

match for the vampire, who buries his face in the knight's

neck.  The knight screams.

ANGLE ON DOOR

It suddenly flies open, the lock shattered.

The vampire turns like a frightened animal.  In the doorway

stands the barmaid, a SLAYER.  In her hand is a wooden stake.

The vampire drops the knight, who crabs backwards into a corner.

The Slayer and the vampire come at each other.  The Slayer

spins and kicks; the vampire flies back.  Snarling, he comes

back at the slayer.  They struggle; he slips free and is out

the door.

For a moment, the Slayer remains still, crouched on the floor.

The knight watches her.  She seems to be making a decision --

perhaps even knows what is going to happen.

She runs at the window.

EXT. IN FRONT OF THE INN - SAME TIME

The vampire comes running out the front door.  Before he is a

few feet from the front of the inn, the Slayer SMASHES through

the upstairs window and lands on him.  They both hit the ground,

and she plants the stake right in his heart.

After a moment, we hear a voice:

She looks up.

There are ten or more vampires walking slowly toward her in

the otherwise deserted street.  At the front, maybe ten feet

away, is AMILYN.

Amilyn is a grinning jackal, a servant to the Vampire-King.

His garb is a rotted approximation of a courtier's livery.  He

ambles toward the Slayer, giggling, as she stands.

Behind her is LOTHOS, the Vampire-King.  His skin is deep white,

and smooth.  He wears a long coat -- his dress is not of any

era.  He is practically upon her before he speaks.

She turns.  He smiles, almost lovingly.

She swings at him but he grabs her arm.  Amilyn laughs

obnoxiously.  Lothos grabs the back of the Slayer's head, brings

her to him in a loving embrace.

He pulls her head back swiftly, snapping her spine as her head

hits the back of her legs.  Lightning flashes.

INT. ENGLISH CASTLE - NIGHT

Lightning flashes outside the window.  It is torrenting rain.

An old MAN speaks to a hysterical GIRL of sixteen or so.  They

are both obviously noble of birth.

He pulls aside her blouse to reveal a birthmark on her shoulder,

identical to the barmaid's.

The man unravels a satchel of cloth.  From it he pulls an

elaborately carved wooden stake.

He hands her the stake.  She feels the fit.

As she grips the stake more tightly, an awareness and sense of

power sees to fill her.  She lifts the stake over her head.

CLOSEUP - A HAND

The hand is lifted high, but it is not the girl's.  It holds

not a stake, but a pom-pom.

EXT. HEMERY HIGH FOOTBALL FIELD - WIDER SHOT - DAY

Opening CREDITS OVER:

A football game in progress.  The stands are pretty full, the

crowd enthusiastic.  The hemery football stadium is just that;

a real stadium, not just makeshift stands on grass.

On  the sidelines are the Hemery cheerleaders, led by BUFFY.

She is blonde (in nature as in name), pretty, and very

gracefully athletic.  She obviously enjoys what she is doing,

and she's good at it.

With her on the squad are JENNIFER and NICOLE, two of her best

friends.  Beside them the COACH, yelling at the players.  The

scoreboard reads HEMERY VS. SETON.

On the field are JEFFREY, wide receiver (and Buffy's boyfriend),

ANDY, quarterback, and GRUELLER, the huge left tackle.

Buffy and the crowd wince as Andy is sacked for a nine-yard

loss.

The players huddle.

He hits Grueller's helmet.

They clap and break.  As they line up, Jeffrey looks over at

Buffy.  She smiles at him.  He winks, very suave.

On the hike, Andy drops back and looks for a receiver.  Jeffrey

runs in circles like an idiot (and not unlike a chicken), waving

his arms until Andy sails him the ball and he breaks for a

touchdown.

The crowd goes wild -- particularly Buffy, who does an

impressive standing backflip.  Nicole looks at her, impressed.

Buffy smiles at her, giddy.

INT. THE MALL - AFTERNOON

The mall is typically busy.  Buffy, Nicole, Jennifer and

KIMBERLY can bee seen making their way through it.  They are

all dressed very similarly:  bright colors, a lot of white and

pink.  Not trashy, but mainstream and uninspired.  Esprit.

All of them carry shopping bags; they've done a good days work.

TITLE:  CALIFORNIA. THE LITE AGES

The girls pass by stores, vaguely window shopping.

A dress on a rack outside a store has caught her eye.  She

takes it and holds it in front of her.

Kimberly and Jennifer catch up to them.

Buffy puts it back.

A stranger, walking the other way, bumps into Buffy, doesn't

stop.  A man of about fifty, he is dressed shabbily, in a

wrinkled black suit and a black shirt.  He somewhat resembles

a priest.

The girls continue walking.  The man stops, turns to stare

after them.  His look is intense, slightly worried, his face

somewhat haggard.  Intelligence shines through his eyes.  He

holds himself stiffly, arms close to him, almost as if he

expected something to strike at him.

This is MERRICK.  He pulls a picture out of his coat pocket,

looks at it.  Looks at them.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - DAY

The film is in progress.  This has no effect on the girls,

however, as they continue to talk ceaselessly.  They all have

diet sodas.

Seated a few rows behind the girls are PIKE and BENNY.  The

are fairly punked out, (and not currently attending high

school).  Pike is long and lean, has short hair spiked and a

taste for long coats and black.  Benny is somewhat stockier,

opts for a shaved head and suspenders.  Doc Martins for both.

Benny is clearly the more belligerent of the two -- when Pike

speaks, it's with surprising wit and reserve.  Sometimes.

Pike and Benny throw popcorn at her.

The boys stare at her.

ANGLE - THE MOON

Fat and yellow, behind the clouds.  We hear a long HOWL.

EXT. THE MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Jeffrey pulls into the parking lot in his BMW convertible.

Grueller, howling, sits in the back behind Jeffrey and Andy.

They park and hop out, head toward the entrance.

Andy and Grueller bring their foreheads together with

painstaking slowness, grimacing, and barely tap heads.

Grueller walks off, head through a park.

At the same time, Pike and Benny emerge from the theater.

They pass Andy and Jeffrey and the two pairs circle each other,

almost growling, eyes locked, before pike and Benny turn and

walk off, not quite in the direction Grueller took.  Buffy,

Kimberly, Jennifer and Nicole come out right after.  Buffy

heads straight for Jeffrey and they kiss massively.

EXT. THE PARK - SAME TIME

Grueller walks through the trees, enters an enclosed clearing

of grass.  He hears something, stops.  Maybe his name, maybe

just the BUSHES RUSTLING.  He looks about him, hesitantly.

Starts forward, stops again.

Nothing.

RUSTLING.  No one.

He turns on his heel, ready to drop all show and bolt.  WALLY

BESSEL is right behind him.

Wally is a ninth grader, small, nerdy, and recently undead.

In marked contrast to the older vampire in the prologue, Wally

is freshly undead.  He still has fat on his face; in fact, he

looks almost normal from afar.  But his inhuman eyes and his

uncommon pallor mark him as a vampire.  And the way he speaks

is unearthly.  Hollow, almost detached; repeating phrases

sometimes almost as though he had never heard them before.

He smiles at Grueller.

Grueller grabs Wally by his shirt collar and readily hoists

his small body up, Wally's feet dangling two feet off the

ground.

He lets Wally go.  Wally remains two feet in the air.

Grueller's eyes go wide.

Wally smiles even more broadly, quietly hissing.  He has long

fangs, made somehow more grotesque by the fact that he also

has braces.

Wally's hands vise onto Grueller's head, lightning quick.

Grueller screams.

ANGLE - PIKE AND BENNY

Crossing a street, turning and listening.

ANGLE - JEFFREY'S CAR

Speeding by, everyone packed into it.  Andy howls back at

Grueller, mistaking his intent.  He settles back.  The girls

are looking at him.

In the front seat next to Jeffrey, Buffy winces slightly.

ANGLE - THE FULL MOON

INT. BUFFY'S LIVING ROOM - ANGLE ON TV - NIGHT

We see another full moon, this one on the TV screen.  "Dracula"

is on, Lugosi's original.

The lights are off in the living room as Jeffrey enters from

the kitchen, sits down on the couch holding a bag of munchies.

Buffy is still in the kitchen, making corn.  Jeffrey flicks

the remote, changes channels.

ANGLE - THE TV

The movie is replaced by the local news, in mid-broadcast.  A

NEWSCASTER sits at his deck, a super of a teenage girl behind

him.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Buffy's FATHER walks purposefully into the kitchen holding a

suitcase that he plops by the front door.  He crosses out again

as Buffy's MOM crosses in, also with luggage.

She's already out again by the end of this, as dad comes back

in.

And he's out the back, mom entering on his heels.

She actually makes a kiss noise at her daughter.

Buffy's mom heads out the door as Buffy heads into the living

room.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME

Buffy sits, squints disapprovingly at the screen.  She has a

bag of microwave lite popcorn and is spraying diet butter

substitute on it.

Jeffrey leans in toward her.

He starts kissing her about the face and neck.  She leans

submissively back on the couch as he works his way on top of

her.  He gives her a long kiss on the mouth, then works over

to her ear.  As he is burrowing about in there, Buffy sneaks

another handful of popcorn into her mouth.

She leans back, by accident, on the remote.

ANGLE - THE TV

"Dracula" reappears.

INT. 18TH CENTURY CHINESE WHOREHOUSE - NIGHT

Not, by any stretch, an upscale joint.  Dark, cramped, and

scummy.  A young Chinese Whore sits on a bed, wearing little

enough that we can see the telltale birthmark on her shoulder.

A repulsive British SAILOR is dressing, his business finished.

Looking disgusted, he throws his payment on the bed.  For some

reason, the bed is littered with popcorn.

He leaves.  Alone, the Girl hears a NOISE in the dark corner,

a wet RUSTLING.  Slowly she gets up to see.  Approaches...

It is a pool of blood.  She stares at it, terrified.  A hand

reaches out of it.

She runs out into the hall, but it leads nowhere but a dead

end.  Standing there, waiting for her, is Lothos.  He smiles

at her and we see she is now Buffy.

INT. BUFFY'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Buffy is thrashing in bed.  Jeffrey is holding her by the

shoulders and shaking her.

She wakes, grasping, her eyes melting into focus on Jeffrey's

face.

He settles back down, his arms around her, and almost instantly

begins to fall asleep again.

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - SAME TIME

Dark, cavernous -- walls hewn from rock, lit torches clamped

to them.  Cold stone floor and in the foreground, a dark pool

of blood.  A HUM, possibly a chant, fills the air.

A figure steps up to the pool, his back to the CAMERA, and

kneels before it.  He holds his hand over the surface of the

blood.  As he speaks, his voice an urgent hiss, we TRACK AROUND

him, see that it is Amilyn.

CLOSEUP - AMILYN'S HAND

A hand shoots out of the pool and grabs Amilyn's.  Amilyn leans

over and fervently kisses it.

EXT. SCHOOL YARD - DAY

Buffy sits with Nicole, Jennifer, Kimberly and CASSANDRA.

Cassandra is not quite in the same league as the other girls --

for one thing, she studies.  She's not as glamorous, nor a

vacuous.

They consider this a moment.

Jeffrey and Andy arrive, sit.  Jeffrey straddles Buffy from

behind, wrapping his arms around her.  She snuggles in his

grasp.

Cassandra has paper and pen, is poised to make a list of

suggestions.  The other all look at each other uncomfortably.

Cassandra obviously knows the answer, but regards her friends

silently, waiting to see what the come up with.

Everyone but Cassandra is impressed by this.

GARY MURRAY, a well meaning but pompous little administrator,

come up to the kids.  He's kind of like Charlie Brown:  you

always say his whole name.

Gary Murray walks off.

They get up and start heading to class.

Buffy smiles, trots off.

EXT. THE CITY - NIGHT

We see SHOTS of the deserted city at night.  It's a small,

upscale town.  Suburban streets, businesses, and a  few more

depressed areas, boarded up houses.  No one is out.  TREES

RUSTLE, shadows flicker, but the curling mist is the only

visible presence.

INT. CAFE BLASE - NIGHT

A classic faux-Fifties L.A. diner.  Pictures of Frankie and

Annette, bright lights, those same tired Fifties standards

playing on the JUKEBOX.  Buffy, Kimberly, Jennifer and Nicole

are sitting at the end of the counter, at the corner.

GIRLS' POV

Pike and Benny have entered the diner, quite drunk.  As they

pass the jukebox, Benny gives it a kick and the music stops.

A few people look up, annoyed, as they approach the counter.

They sit next to Buffy and begin pooling their money on the

counter.  It comes to about $2.50, heavy with pennies.

He digs and produces a quarter from his pocket.

Buffy gives him a look.

The girls all make sad noises, real sarcastic.

The waitress brings the hot do.  Benny takes it out of the bun

and holds it over his crotch, phallus-like.

The other girls look down and shriek.  Buffy looks at Benny,

looks at him in the eye.

ANGLE - BUFFY'S HAND

It closes silently around the knife at her place.

Buffy is still looking at Benny, she seems to be hypnotizing

him, and maybe even herself.  The NOISE in the diner seems to

FADE AWAY for a moment.  Buffy shifts slightly, almost a twitch,

and the spell is broken.  The SOUND RETURNS, Buffy looks away,

letting go of the knife exactly where it was.

Benny looks down.  His hot dog has been sliced neatly down to

about an inch.  He is shocked.

Buffy looks off, a little surprised herself.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Pike and Benny have left the diner and are walking down the

street.  Pike produces a bottle of Mezcal from his coat pocket

and takes a swig, hand it to Benny.  They continue to pass it

back and forth.

They continue walking.  A shadowy figure appears behind them,

following.

INT. DINER - NIGHT

The girls have all finished their sundaes.

Buffy makes a face.  She doesn't want to hear this story.  We

HOLD on her as Nicole tells it.

She makes a hyper-intense face.  The others laugh.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Perhaps in answer, we see the same shadowy figure moving behind

Pike and Benny as they continue to walk home.  They're really

bombed now.  They are somewhere in the hills now, and they

come to the edge of a steep incline overlooking the valley.  A

waist-high concrete wall is built into the side of the earth.

They stand below a thick, green tree.

Pike finishes the bottle, eats the worm, and chucks the BOTTLE

over the side.  There is a moment before they hear it SHATTER.

Benny wavers, catches hold of Pike.

He leans over the side of the wall, hangs his head down.

Pike falls over backwards.

Pike passes out.

CLOSEUP - BENNY

Still waiting to throw up.  The figure approaches slowly from

behind him.  The figure is a few feet away from him when a

hand shoots down from above and grabs Benny's face.

ANGLE - IN THE TREE

Amilyn sits on a low branch, pulls Benny up to face him.  Amilyn

has changed his manner of dress drastically.  He wears a

motorcycle jacket and sunglasses.  His hair is punked out.

Benny is in shock, as Amilyn holds him easily by his shirt

collar.

Amilyn leans back -- all the way back, falling back out of the

tree and pulling Benny with him.  We see them fall out past

the wall just as the shadowy figure reaches it.

It is Merrick, the man from the mall.  He runs to the side of

the wall, looks over.  The two are already lost in the dark

mist.  Merrick turns around, looks about him.  He digs in his

pockets, pulls out a cross and a stake, holds them tightly.

While digging he pulls out an old, stained picture, lays it on

the railing.  Stake and cross in hand, he stands by Pike looking

out at the night.

ANGLE - THE PICTURE

It is a ten year old girl about to blow out the candles on her

birthday cake.  The cake reads, "Happy Birthday, Buffy".

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - AFTERNOON

Buffy, Nicole and Jennifer and another cheerleader are

practicing.

Buffy shows her.  They do it together for a minute.

Jennifer laughs, uncomfortably.

The other girls leave.  Buffy is alone on the empty field.

She looks around her.  She starts doing a routine, tentatively.

Then she runs toward the middle of the field and jumps, flies

into an extraordinary series of gymnastic flips and cartwheels.

She rolls into one final flip, a huge one, and lands, a perfect

ten, about three inches from Merrick.

She screams in surprise, steps back.

His accent is clipped -- British.

Merrick looks at her.

He steps forward and pulls the neck of Buffy's shirt aside,

revealing her shoulder.

There is no birthmark on her shoulder.  He looks at the other

one.

Buffy pushes his hand off her.

She starts to walk away.

Buffy stops.  This obviously registers with her.

The last one hits the mark.

Merrick rolls his eyes.

The name has an obvious effect on the girl.

ANGLE - THE SUN

Thick and orange, sinking beyond the hills.

EXT. GRAVEYARD - SUNSET

Merrick leads Buffy, searching for a particular grave.

Buffy stops, winces slightly.

Buffy is standing on a freshly dug grave.  The headstone reads:

"ROBERT BERMAN, 1972 - 1990.  GOD IS AT HIS HEELS".

He points out a plot of ground about eight feet from the foot

of the grave.  Buffy sits and leans against another stone.

Merrick reaches into his jacket, pulls out a stake and a cross,

hands the cross to Buffy.

Merrick goes over to the other headstone, crouches by it.

ANGLE - SUNSET

The last red glimmer disappears behind the hills.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE SCHOOL - SAME TIME

Cassandra stands waiting for Buffy.  The sun is down, darkness

increasing.  She looks at her watch and gives up, heads for

her car.  Her key in the door, she hears a RUSTLING behind

her.  Looks slowly around.

EXT. GRAVEYARD - SAME TIME

Buffy sits fidgeting.  Playing with her fingernails.  Merrick

stays in the position, listening.

A low, almost inaudible MOAN come from under the ground.  Buffy

sits up straight, holds the cross to her.  The MOAN becomes

louder, almost a scream.  The SOUND is followed by the SOUND

of FINGERS SCRAPPING wood -- of WOOD SPLINTERING -- of digging.

The moaning continues, becoming eerier, somewhat more

articulate.

Buffy and Merrick wait.

ANGLE - THE GRAVE

Finally, fingers break through the ground and hold stiff in

the open air.  The moan becomes a triumphant HISS.  The fingers

clutch at the ground.

ROBERT BERMAN pops halfway out of his grave like a jack-in-the-

box, his face dirty and dead-white.  He sees Buffy in front of

him, and he bobs toward her with a crazy grin, stretching as

to a mother's tit.

Merrick drops down behind Robert and grabs him, raising the

stake.  Buffy watches, immobilized.

A pair of arms shoot up from the ground right under Buffy.

They grab her and pull her to the ground.  Next to her face,

the face of another vampire, a YOUNG WOMAN, emerges grinning

from the crumbling earth.

Buffy screams lustily, and struggles to break free.

Merrick is momentarily distracted by this, and Robert throws

him off, and pulls himself out of the grave.  Merrick falls to

the ground, and his stake goes flying.

Buffy pulls herself out of the girl's grasp, starts running

away, but the girl grabs her.  Buffy remembers the cross in

her hand, spins and holds it to the vampire's forehead.  It

burns and the lady lets go, screaming and falling to the ground.

Buffy runs.

ANGLE - MERRICK AND ROBERT

They are struggling, several feet away.  Robert grabs Merrick

by the shoulders and picks him up, preparing to bite him.  A

stake suddenly pops out of his chest, planted in his back by

Buffy.  He falls and dies.

It leaps at her, screaming.  She throws it off, as Merrick

produces another stake and throws it to her.  Buffy sticks it

in the vampire's heart.  She dies, screaming, her face still

smoking, blood spurting onto Buffy.

Buffy looks at herself.  At the blood.

EXT. FRONT OF BUFFY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Merrick walks Buffy to the door.  She is silent, slow.

He hands her a piece of paper.

Buffy nods.  Merrick starts back down the path.

Merrick stops.

Merrick moves on.  Buffy goes inside.

INT. BUFFY'S HOUSE - FOYER - SAME TIME

Buffy shuts the door, turns to go up to her room.  She is

startled by someone standing in her path.  She almost screams.

It's her mother.  She stands, arm akimbo, looking very

confrontational.  Buffy looks a sight, and stands uncomfortably

in front of her mother for a moment.

Mom taps her watch, annoyed.

She crosses out of the room.

Her mother gone, Buffy lets out a small sigh -- of relief or

frustration, it is not clear.  She heads upstairs.

INT. BUFFY'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Buffy stands at the sink, washing her shirt.  She tries to get

the blood off with fierce intensity.  She is near tears.

INT. BUFFY'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

She sits in the middle of the bed in her pajamas, the blankets

pooled around her.  She cannot sleep.  Finally, she lies back

on the pillow.

Lothos is beside her.

INT. SCHOOL HALL - DAY

Buffy walks through the hall slowly, obviously the worse for

last night's wear.  Gary Murray comes up next to her, looking

at his watch pointedly:  she's late for class.  He moves on.

Jeffrey, going the other way, stops next to her.

Jeffrey backs away from her.

Jeffrey moves off to class.  Buffy walks on a bit.  She bumps

into Nicole.

Buffy looks confused for a moment, then remembers.

INT. LOTHOS' CAVE - CLOSEUP OF CASSANDRA'S FACE

She is waking up, obviously from being knocked out.  She blinks

stupidly, looks around.  She is lying by a pool of what looks

to be dark water in a large cave.  Torches burn around her.

She tries to get up and finds it difficult.  She pulls herself

up to the side of the pool and splashes water on her face.

It's blood.

She starts, staring with growing horror at her hands.  She

does not even see the figure rise from the pool at first.

It's Lothos.  He wears no shirt, only white trousers and boots,

the style maybe Nineteenth Century.  No blood seems to touch

him as he rises.  He looks at Cassandra with an almost sleepy

lust.

Cassandra turns.  Amilyn stands behind her, grinning.  He

hisses, bares his fangs at Cassandra.

He steps right up to her.

On the world "to consume" we see Amilyn mouthing the words

with Lothos, his eyes to the ceiling.  He's heard this a hundred

times.

Cassandra pulls her gold card out of her wallet.

Amilyn snatches it from her, looks it over.

Amilyn bites the card.

He rips out her throat, tearing at it with his teeth as blood

gushes around their faces and she wriggle, twists, dies.  He

hurls her into the door and wipes blood from his mouth.

Slowly Cassandra slides down the wall, her eyes glazing over.

As she descends we see, stenciled on the wall, "Hemery High

School.  Maintenance Only."

INT. WAREHOUSE - AFTERNOON

Grey, dusty and long since abandoned.  Sunlight pours in through

the large windows, practically caked with dust.  Old crates

are stacked here and there, bits of manikins leaning on one or

two.  Merrick sits on a crate, reading the newspaper.

Buffy enters hesitantly, puts down her bookbag next to a pile

of Merrick's stuff, including a rolled-up sleeping bag.  This

is definitely not her turf.  She runs her finger along a crate,

picks up a world of dust.  She holds up her finger at Merrick.

Merrick looks up at her.

She repeats it not with attitude, but a dull wonder at her

connection with this strange man.  She crosses to him.

Buffy laughs.

Buffy starts, a bit awkwardly, doing a cheer.

She starts again.

Gradually, Buffy gets more into the cheer.  The steps become

more complicated as she repeats the verse.

CLOSEUP - MERRICK'S HAND

We see a knife slip out of Merrick's sleeve.  He palms it,

hands behind his back.

In the middle of her routine, he hurls it at her.  She catches

it, reflexively, inches from her face.  Stops dead.  Then bursts

into tears.  Merrick is thrown off by this reaction.

She is coming at him now.  He begins to back up.

Buffy punches him in the face.  He goes flying a good ways,

lands on his back.  His nose bleed merrily.  Buffy stops.

Buffy looks at the knife in her hand.  The MUSIC COMES UP and

we...

A SERIES OF IMAGES AND INTERCUT SCENES

Buffy's period of training.  Over the difficult course of it,

she is obviously becoming more self-possessed, more at ease.

Her style of dress loosens a bit:  a little punkier.  Stops

dying her hair blonde and her roots start showing.  Accumulates

a few more holes in her ears.

EXT. THE WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Buffy doing a series of gymnastic flips, swinging on vines,

etc.

EXT. SCHOOL - DAY

Buffy arriving late for class.

INT. BRENTANO'S - DAY

Buffy charging some books: Lawson's Treatis on Demonology,

Psychological Interpretations of Vampirism, The Book of the

Dead, and The Complete Garlic Cookbook.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Merrick sits on a crate, reading the obituaries and circling

certain entries.

Buffy stands on her head, sweating with concentration.  The

CAMERA TILTS up to reveal her feet.  Between the toes of one

is a nail brush, with which she is very carefully painting her

toenails.

INT. MELROSE CLOTHING STORE ("ROCK STAR") - NIGHT

Amilyn and a few of the old-world vampires are on a spree,

trying on various leather jackets.  As they cavort, the CAMERA

TRACKS behind the counter, where we find the clerk, bloody and

dead, slumped on the floor.

EXT. SCHOOL - DAY

Buffy kissing Jeffrey goodbye after school.  A long, lingering

kiss, during which she pulls away, anxious to get going.  She

starts off, comes back and plants a big ol' on his lips one

last time before splitting.

EXT. MINIATURE GOLF COURSE - AFTERNOON

Merrick and Buffy are playing.  Merrick tees off, shoots

horribly.

Buffy positions herself.

She gives a little 'isn't that funny' kind of laugh.  He doesn't

respond.

She considers this a moment.  Tees off:  another hole in one.

EXT. WAREHOUSE  (LATER)

Buffy and Merrick sparring, working their way in between the

"trees."  She is his superior in speed and strength, but he

easily trips her up.  She glares at him from the ground.

INT. SCHOOL - DAY

Buffy late again.  Gary Murray watches her from the hall,

shaking his head.

EXT. ROADSIDE - EVENING

Two college-age guys stand hitchhiking.  A red convertible

pulls up, with a beautiful blonde behind the wheel.  The guys

look at each other -- all right!  They can't see her teeth, or

the look in her eye.

INT. CHURCH - AFTERNOON

Buffy walks in, looks around.  She approaches a PRIEST.

She holds up a six-pack of Perrier.

INT. LOTHOS' CAVE - NIGHT

We see the entire cave, the still pool of blood, the torches

lit.  At the far end sits Lothos.  In his arms is the body of

a dead girl.  Blood stains her neck and yet the image is poetic,

reminiscent of Michelangelo's "Pieta".  They are both perfectly

still, her draped across his lap, he with his eyes far far

away.  The silence holds.

Lothos belches massively.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Merrick is lecturing Buffy.  Buffy is sitting, doodling in an

open notebook, "uh-huh"ing and obviously not paying attention.

He looks at Buffy, who is staring down at her notebook.

He looks at her.  Is she listening?

Is she?

Nope.  No reaction, just another "Uh-huh."

ANGLE - BUFFY'S NOTEBOOK

Merrick slams a stake right through the middle of it.  Buffy

screams, jumps back a good two feet and lands on her butt.

INT. WAREHOUSE - LATE LATE NIGHT

Merrick talking.  Buffy drinking coffee, trying hard to stay

awake.  Listening.

INT. SCHOOL - DAY

Buffy in class, taking a test.  Nicole leaning over, trying to

cheat off her when she falls forward onto the desk, asleep.

INT. SCHOOL HALL - DAY

Buffy being ushered into Gary Murray's office.

INT. GARY MURRAY'S OFFICE - DAY

Buffy sits in his chair.  Gary moves about his desk, sitting

behind it, leaning on it, talking to her.  A FLY BUZZES

annoyingly about his head.

EXT. FOREST - AFTERNOON

Buffy stands under a tree, blindfolded.  Merrick stands a ways

apart, watching.  Buffy stands very still, neck craned, waiting.

Silently, a leaf falls.  It wafts gently down.  Buffy hurls a

knife at it with easy precision.

ANGLE - ANOTHER TREE

The knife stick deep into the trunk, the leaf perfectly pinned.

Merrick looks at it.  Buffy smiles, knowing she has hit the

target.  Blindfold still on, she turns toward Merrick and walks

into a branch, falls heavily backwards.

INT. GARY MURRAY'S OFFICE - DAY

The same session, continuing.  Buffy still sits, expressionless,

in the chair.  The FLY still BUZZES.

INT. THE MALL - DAY

Buffy at the mall with Kimberly, Nicole and Jennifer.  For the

first time, we really see how she stands out against her

friends.  She is wearing much more functional, cool garb, and

less makeup, while they still sport the same dainty shit from

the beginning.

They stop to look at some dresses.  Something in the next store

catches Buffy's eye; she wanders off.

INT. GARY MURRAY'S OFFICE - SAME TIME

Gary Murray is crouching on his desk.  Buffy still sits.  The

FLY still BUZZES.

As Gary talks, Buffy picks up a push pin from the table beside

her, holds it.

Buffy surreptitiously puts the push pin in her mouth.

INT. THE MALL - DAY

The other girls are moving on from the dress shop, notice Buffy

is not with them.  They spot her in the next shop, urge her to

come on.  Buffy puts back the chain saw she was looking at,

follows them.

INT. GARY MURRAY'S OFFICE - DAY

Buffy hasn't moved, or opened her mouth.  The FLY BUZZES on.

Gary Murray now sits behind his desk.

Buffy smiles at Gary.  As he looks away for a second, Buffy

spits out the push pin.  The BUZZING STOPS.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Buffy sparring with Merrick again.  She holds a stake.  This

time she ends up pinning him, the stake at his solar plexus.

He moves the point to where his heart would be.

INT. PIKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The room is a shambles.  Outside the first floor window, it is

dark night.  "Help Yourself" by the Posies blasts from Pike's

STEREO.  Pike lies on his bed.

Through the window we see Benny approach, slowly fading up to

the pane.  He's floating, really.  (He's a vampire.)  He scrapes

his fingers on the glass.

Pike sits up, turns down the music.  He goes to the window,

begins to try to open it.  It's stuck.

Pike gets a good look at Benny for the first time.

Benny grins, presses his slimy forehead against the glass.

He laughs at his impression, brown spittle caking the window.

Benny smiles, moves suddenly out of sight.  Pike looks at the

window for a second, then bolts out of his room.  He runs to

the front door, frantically hooks the chain.  Benny appears at

the door's little window, banging and scraping the glass.

Pike backs away.

EXT. DESERTED STREET - NIGHT

Buffy walks slowly down the street, trying to appear nonchalant,

but looking about her a lot.

She whistles some, keeps walking.

She passes an alley and there is a RUSTLING amid the garbage

cans.  She moves slowly down the alley toward the noise.  She

is about halfway down when a rat scurries out from the cans

and down a drain.

Behind her, another SOUND.  She turns slowly.  At the entrance

to the alley stands a vampire.  They stare at each other, some

thirty feet away.

She moves back a step.  The vampire takes a step.

It floats rapidly at her, hissing.  Buffy looks about her

frantically, trapped.  It hits her at top speed and she

instantly rolls onto her back, flipping it and hurling it

against the wall at the end of the alley.  As it hits, Buffy,

still rolling, produces a stake from her jacket and throws it

directly at its heart.  The stake punctures the startled

creature's chest.  Before he can so much as grab it, Buffy

throws a roundhouse kick, driving the stake all the way home

with her foot.  The vampire screams, sinks to the ground.

Buffy turns, triumphant.

CLOSEUP - A STOPWATCH

A hand stops it.  It is Merrick, who steps into the alley and

stares at Buffy.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The two exit Merrick's car, an old Dodge Dart.  As they talk,

they make their way into the warehouse.  Buffy looks out for

trouble while Merrick unlocks the door.  This is obviously

their routine.

They enter the warehouse.

INT. THE WAREHOUSE - SAME TIME

They unload their stuff as they argue.

Merrick turns on her.

Buffy looks at him a bit.

Silence.

In spite of himself, Merrick smiles.

INT. SCHOOL HALL - DAY

Buffy, Nicole, Kimberly, and Jennifer are walking down the

hall.

Coming from the opposite direction are Jeffrey, Andy and some

of the other football players.  They're suited up and heading

for the gym.

They pass Buffy.  Andy stops and grabs her from behind.

Unthinkingly, Buffy flips Andy over and pins him against a

locker.

Jeffrey puts his arm around Buffy but she shakes it off.

Buffy goes off by herself.  Jeffrey watches her.

The lads move off.  We see Nicole, Kimberly and Jennifer, who

have been watching the whole exchange.  Nicole and Kimberly

are obviously disdainful of Buffy's behavior.  Jennifer is

feeling sorry for Jeffrey.  Boy does she want him.

INT. CLOTHING STORE - DAY

A mod, brightly lit store.  A little hipper than your usual

mall fare, but not Melrose either.  Bright colors reign.  Buffy

is standing by a dressing stall, inspecting her fingernails,

talking to Merrick as he changes inside.

Merrick comes out of the booth.  He wears multi-colored

parachute pants and an equally loud T-shirt.  Buffy looks at

him -- he looks at himself.

EXT. ZEPH'S AUTO REPAIR - LATE AFTERNOON

Pike is hurriedly working on a part in the hood of his beat-up

Dodge, which is filled with all his belongings.  ZEPH stands

watching him.  Zeph is about forty-five, greasy, good-natured.

Pike works for him.

Pike finishes, slams the hood.  He picks up a battered guitar

case and stuffs it into the car, shuts the door.

Pike gets in the car.  It sputter, starts.

Pike peels out.  Zeph watches him go.

ANGLE - THE SUN

burning down.

INT. PIKE'S CAR - NIGHT

On the edge of town.  The car has stalled at an intersection.

Pike is hunched over the wheel, his head down as he listens to

the rasping ENGINE.

Amilyn appears in the street in front of the car.  Pike finally

hears the SCRAPING OF HIS FEET as he approaches the car.  Pike

straightens up slowly, and as the rear view mirror comes INTO

THE FRAME, we see there are two more behind him.  They are

both high-school age, fresh like Bessel and Benny.  They all

approach, slowly.

Pike waits for a second, his hand on the key.

He turns the key again and the car ROARS to life.  The

headlights trap the hungry scowl of the vampires as Pike pops

the car in reverse, smashing into the back two vampires.  They

both go flying, hurt but not killed.

ANGLE - INSIDE THE CAR

Pike races at Amilyn, but he leaps up as Pike reaches him, and

Pike hears a THUD as Amilyn lands on the roof of his car.

Pike continues to bullet down the street as a hand suddenly

punches through the roof, grabbing at him.  He fights off the

hand and tries to control the speeding car.

It can't be done:  he goes off the road and into a park.  The

car careens along.

ANGLE - ON TOP OF THE CAR

Amilyn ride it, laughing.

ANGLE - INSIDE THE CAR

Pike spots a tree with a low branch and heads for it.  Still

fighting, he aims at the branch.  It gets closer.

ANGLE - ON TOP OF THE CAR

Amilyn looks up.

ANGLE - INSIDE THE CAR

They pass under the branch and we hear a TEARING THUD.  The

arm stiffens and falls into Pike's lap.

The car hits another tree dead on.  Pike slams into the steering

wheel.  The guitar case flies right through the windshield and

lands on the grass.

Pike pulls himself slowly from the car.  He is bleeding, but

not badly.  Just shaken.  He hears a low, seething WAIL from a

few yards back and turns around.  Amilyn is getting shakily to

his feet.

Amilyn hisses at him, then turns and races away, snarling,

clutching what's left of his arm.

One of the other vampires nears him.  Pike tries to run and

his knees buckle.  He lands on them right next to the guitar

case.  As the vampire nears, he pulls the guitar out of the

case and swings it, hitting the vampire in the head.  He hits

him again.  The vampire bats away the guitar and grabs Pike.

Brings his face to Pike's as Pike squirms.

A blasting kick in the head from Buffy.  The vampire is flung

to one side, falls.  He starts up at Buffy and she nails him

with a stake.  Pike stares at her.  She pulls a walkie-talkie

from her pocket.

She puts the walkie-talkie back.

The last vampire hits Pike from behind.  Without missing a

beat, Buffy picks up the guitar and snaps the neck off.  She

and the vampire meet in the middle -- the creature barely moves

before she buries the guitar neck in its chest.  It falls.

Merrick runs up.  He is wearing black jeans and a windbreaker.

He is more modern than he was before, but subtly.  He sees the

decaying bodies, one with a guitar sticking out of its chest.

Pike's eyes glaze over slightly as he collapses into Buffy's

arms.

INT. BOILER ROOM - CLOSEUP ON AMILYN - NIGHT

Thrashing about the room in hysterics, screaming and snarling,

banging his one fist on the boiler tank.  It booms hollowly.

Lothos grabs him, throws him up against the wall.

Lothos lets Amilyn go.  Amilyn still fumes, quietly.

Only Lothos smiles at the joke.  Amilyn raises his stump, looks

at it.  The tattered end of his jacket covers the grossness of

it, but it still isn't good.

He turns toward his chamber.

On his way through the door he passes a box on an oil drum.

He plucks a large kitten out of it.

INT. BUFFY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Buffy and Pike walk in, Pike still a bit unsteady on his feet.

They move into the kitchen.

Buffy hands Pike the water and they move back into the living

room.  Pike curls up in an armchair by the window.  Buffy begins

stripping off her bloody clothes, leaving on a tank-top and

jeans.

As Buffy strips down to her tank top, she notices a gash on

her arm.  It's not bleeding much any more, but it's fairly

impressive.  Pike jumps up to help as she pats it down with

her shirt.

Pike looks at her a moment as she wraps her shirt around it.

Buffy doesn't look up.  The questions seems to upset her a

great deal.  She even fights back tears.

Buffy smiles at this, though still upset.  She sits down.

But she stands anyway, head to the stairs.

She starts up the stairs.

She gives him a look, heads upstairs.  He watches her go, looks

out the window.

EXT. BUS TERMINAL

A bus is pulling out.  We see Pike through the window, looking

comtemplative.  He watches the terminal disappear.

PIKE'S POV

The streets move by.  On one there is a Police Officer talking

to a hysterical Man.  Next to them is a body, covered by a

sheet.

EXT. OUTSIDE SCHOOL - MORNING

Buffy and Merrick are walking along the path to the steps of

the main building, arguing.  Merrick is wearing casual

California gear, but again, very subdued.

She turns to go.

She smiles at him and runs up the steps, where Jeffrey is

waiting for her.  He looks at the departing figure of Merrick.

They enter the building together.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - NIGHT

Right before the game.  The scoreboard reads "Hemery vs Barber".

Fans fill the stands.  We see Buffy with the other cheerleaders.

She's really into it, enjoying herself as they all rally the

crowd.

We see Merrick taking a seat.  He is wearing another new outfit --

a letterman jacket and baseball cap.  He has binoculars around

his neck.  He takes his seat amidst the teens.  Real

inconspicuous.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - SAME TIME

The coach is giving players his pep talk.

They run out, full of fire.  The coach turns to one player,

whose face we cannot see.

Coach heads out.  The player turns around, smiles after him.

It's Grueller.

INT. STADIUM TUNNEL - SAME TIME

The players run out toward the field, yelling.  The last of

them is Grueller.  He floats behind them slowly, grinning and

speaking in a passionless voice, again as if he were repeating

words phonetically.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD  (LATER)

Fourth quarter.  The scoreboard read "Hemery: 17, Barber: 21".

Fifty seconds left.

On the sidelines, a player hobbles out and coach pushes Grueller

in.  He passes Buffy and she winces slightly.  It messes up

the routine and Nicole practically falls over her.

Buffy starts cheering again as the players huddle.

ANGLE - MERRICK

He is watching Buffy through his binoculars.  A TEEN nudges

him.

Merrick does turn.

The teen leans closer.

He nods at Merrick; "You know what I mean".  Merrick turns

back.

ANGLE - THE FIELD

The players are lined up.  Grueller, at left tackle, smiles at

the player facing him, growls.  The player looks worried.

The players scramble as Andy hands off.  The carrier gets a

few yards.  When the pileup on the line of scrimmage peels

apart, the player that had been facing Grueller is unconscious.

As he is carted off the field, Grueller gleefully trots back

to the huddle.

ANGLE - BUFFY

Watching the game, a little perplexed.

ANGLE - THE STANDS

Merrick watches Buffy.

ANGLE - THE SIDELINES

The coach yells at the players.

ANGLE - GRUELLER

Smiling, listening to Andy call the play.

ANGLE - ANOTHER SECTION IN THE STANDS

Kimberly sits, complaining to no one in particular.

She sits back, turns to her neighbor.

Her neighbor smiles at her.  He is a vampire, and he speaks in

the same monotone that Grueller used.  He waves a pennant.

ANGLE - THE FIELD

The players are lined up again.  Grueller is drooling.  The

other team is really worried about him now.

The snap.  Andy drops back and lobs it to Jeffrey.  Jeffrey is

way open.  He catches it easily, looks behind him as he runs.

Barber players are rushing at him.  And Grueller is coming at

him too, throwing other players right and left.

Jeffrey looks a little worried.  He bolts down field, toward

the end zone, Grueller on his heels.

ANGLE - BUFFY

She sees something is definitely wrong.

In a flash, she races onto the field.

ANGLE - MERRICK

He stands, his eyes following Buffy.

ANGLE - KIMBERLY

She also see Buffy.

Everybody rises to their feet and cheers as Jeffrey makes it

to the end zone.

ANGLE - THE CLOCK

Two, one, zero.

ANGLE - THE FIELD

Grueller hits Jeffrey a second before he is enveloped by other

players.  Grueller, hungry with bloodlust, is confused by the

exultant crowd, snarling at people.

Buffy races for the crowd.  She sees Jeffrey is all right.

Grueller makes his way out of the throng and up into the stands

even as everyone else is rushing onto the field.

Jeffrey is triumphant.  He sees Buffy running for him and raises

his arms.  She passes him right by and continues after Grueller,

heads up the stands.  He looks after her, confused, before he

is swamped again.

ANGLE - MERRICK

He tries to make his way through the crowd.

ANGLE - TOP OF THE STANDS

Grueller reaches them and leaps over the back.  Buffy sees

him, runs up and without hesitation, dives off herself.

The stands reach some thirty feet off the ground.  Buffy sails

down like a diver, grabs a branch about halfway down.  She

swings like a gymnast and the branch snaps.  Still holding the

broken branch, she completes a perfect flip and lands on her

feet.

The vampire fan is on the ground behind her, come for her and

without stopping or even turning she twirls the branch and

sinks the broken end in his heart.

She looks around for Grueller.  He is booking out, already

several yards away..

Merrick appears at the top of the stands just in time to see

Buffy take off after Grueller.

She continues to race after Grueller.

ANGLE - MERRICK

Running back down the stands, making his way through the

dispersing crowd to the nearest exit.

EXT. STREET - SAME TIME

Buffy is still following, but she can't keep up.  She spot a

BIKER tooling along the street on a Harley.  She comes up to

the side of the road and tentatively sticks her thumb out.

The biker smiles, stops in front of her.

ANGLE - THE BIKE

Ground level, behind the bike, we see its engine revving, smoke

puffing from twin pipes.

Buffy looks at the biker a moment.

ANGLE - THE BIKE

The same angle as before, ground level.  Suddenly the biker's

body lands in front of CAMERA

CLOSEUP - WHEEL

spinning

CLOSEUP - HAND

revving the engine.

Buffy takes off at top speed.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE  (MOMENTS LATER)

A RUSTLING in the trees signifies Grueller's flight.  Seconds

late, Buffy roars into view behind him.  She navigates the

streets with less ease than determination.

Her eyes follow him off the road and she steers the bike on a

violently bumpy and erratic course through the site.  She

finally hits a pile of bricks and is thrown headlong from the

bike.  She hits the ground hard; she rolls into it but has

trouble getting up.

BUFFY'S POV

Grueller's smiling face appears over her.

He brings his face right next to hers.  His voice is no longer

passionless; it boils up from hell.

RESUME SCENE

He grabs her and hauls her up.

She head-butts him with enormous force, sending him staggering

back.  Before he can recover, she dives for a pile of discarded

lumber, chooses a nasty shard of wood.

She turns on Grueller, who is smiling again.  There are two

more Vampires approaching her, surrounding her.

They rush her.  She takes one on as the second hits her,

knocking her over.  They all three swarm over her, meeting her

kicks with raking claws.  The two hold her in front of Grueller.

He smiles again and leans toward her neck.

The stake that pops out through his chest is as much a surprise

to him as it is to Buffy.  He falls backward, shocked and dead.

Behind him stands Pike.

One of the other vampires stupidly goes after Pike, who runs

away.  Buffy instantly flips the other one over onto Grueller,

impaling him as well.

Pike runs more or less in a circle, yelling, the vampire at

his heels.

Wooden shard in hand, Buffy sprints toward them, jumps into a

series of flips.  She lands with her legs around the vampire's

shoulders, plants the stake in its heart as they topple onto

Pike.

For a moment, Pike and Buffy lie on top of each other, breathing

hard.  Then they get up awkwardly, embarrassed by their

touching, (and by their slight arousal).

They start out of the site.

ANGLE - KIMBERLY'S CAR

She drives by, see Buffy with Pike.  It's an eyebrow-raiser,

but she keeps driving.

EXT. STREET - SAME TIME

Merrick runs up to the street where Buffy took the Harley.  He

has shed the raccoon coat.  The biker is still there, standing

in the road trying to thumb a ride.

He points.  The CAMERA PANS with Merrick as he takes a step in

that direction, leaving the biker behind (and momentarily OUT

OF FRAME).

The CAMERA PAN back with Merrick as he turns to the biker, but

in his place stands Lothos.  Not five feet from Merrick.

ANGLE - THE BIKER

On his knees, Lothos' hand firmly locked around his throat.

He cannot move or breathe.

Merrick and Lothos look at each other a moment.

He looks at the night.  Merrick slowly reaches for a gun stuck

in the back of his pants as Lothos continues.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET - ANGLE ON BUFFY - SAME TIME

She is crouching on the ground, holding her stomach and gritting

her teeth.

Buffy ups and runs in the direction of the noise.  Calls back

to Pike.

She runs out of sight.

EXT. STREET - ANGLE ON THE BIKER - SAME TIME

Lothos lets him go and he falls, dead.

CLOSEUP - THE GUN

Merrick holds it firm behind his back, finger on the trigger.

He laughs.  He doesn't appear to have noticed the gun, but:

Merrick looks out at the trees nearby.

MERRICK'S POV

Buffy appears, far away, between the trees.

Merrick looks at Lothos, afraid he will notice.

ANGLE - BUFFY

Approaching, stopping some twenty yards away.  She looks about

her for a weapon.

Lothos rushes suddenly at Merrick, hissing, his feet just off

the ground.  Merrick steps back, whips out the GUN, and SHOOTS

himself without hesitation in the head.

Buffy's eyes go wide.

Lothos growls, holding Merrick's spurting corpse.

A small, involuntary noise escapes Buffy.

CLOSEUP - LOTHOS

Even twenty yards away, he hears.  He spins and stares, starest

at CAMERA.  Listening.

Buffy walks slowly, silently backward, fading back into the

dark, terrified and shocked.

Lothos turns back and looks at Merrick dead in his hands.

Disgusted, he lets him drop.

He looks at the blood on his fingers.  After a moment, he tastes

it.

EXT. STREET  (LATER)

Pike is standing by the trees where Buffy stood before, looking

out into the street.

PIKE'S POV

The same angle as Buffy's, before.  Now Lothos is gone.  Buffy

is kneeling quietly by Merrick, holding his head in her lap.

EXT. A WOOD - JUST BEFORE DAWN

Through the dark mist Buffy appears, carrying Merrick's body

in her arms.  She is alone.  She does not stop.

EXT. GRAVEYARD - MORNING

On the outskirts of the graveyard, Buffy finishes filling in

Merrick's grave under an old tree.  She is still wearing her

cheerleader outfit, now caked with dirt.  She stands at the

foot of the grave, tries to think of a prayer.

She sits heavily on his grave.

She stops, looks down for a moment.

INT. ZEPH'S AUTO REPAIR - DAY

Pike is at work on a contraption.  Built out of scraps and

parts, it is the beginnings of a cartridge-load crossbow.

Zeph watches, behind him.

Pike pays no attention to this babbling monologue.  Over the

course of it he takes a slim, handmade wooden shaft, slightly

thicker than an arrow, and rubs it with garlic.  He places it

in the crossbow, take aim in front of him.  He fires into the

tire of a truck.  The tire pops flat.  Zeph cracks up.

Pike, still not listening, continues to work.

INT. GYM - DAY

We see a banner stretched across the central beam of the

ceiling.  It reads "THE EARTH IS OUR HOME".  A half dozen

inflatable globes dangle from the ceiling.  Nicole and Kimberly

are stetting up the drinks table, unloading and stacking

hundreds of styrofoam cups.  Jennifer crosses by them, carrying

an armful of plastic wrappings and containers.

Jennifer crosses out as the two resume their conversation.

They laugh.  Jennifer is the first to see Buffy walk in, looking

cleaned-up but still ragged.  They stop laughing.

She storms out.

She also leaves, with Jennifer.  Buffy stands alone in the

room, small amidst the streamers.

INT. BUFFY'S KITCHEN - EVENING

Buffy stands at the sink, rinsing a glass for way too long,

staring.  Her mother breezes THROUGH THE FRAME.

She stops, seems to notice something about Buffy.

And she's out.  Buffy looks at her clothes, herself.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Pike drives slowly between the cars.  He sees Buffy walking

toward the mall.  He pulls up by her, parks.  Gets out of the

car.

Buffy doesn't stop.  He paces her.

She stops.

Buffy raises her fist at him; he starts back, involuntarily.

Buffy walks away, leaving Pike alone.

As Pike walks off, the camera TILTS UP the lamp post behind

them.  Benny is perched upon it.

INT. BOILER ROOM - NIGHT

Vampires are gathered around.  Lothos stands with Benny.  Benny

is beaming.

Lothos laughs, long and hard.

INT. THE MALL - NIGHT

Buffy looks at dresses, most of them fairly tight and fairly

out there.  She holds one in front of her, looks in a mirror.

INT. ZEPH'S AUTO REPAIR - ANOTHER NIGHT

Pike sits, fiddling with his crossbow.  Looks out the window,

discontented.  Laid out next to him we see wooden shafts,

garlic, and a cross.

INT. BUFFY'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Buffy lays her dress on the bed.  We cannot see exactly what

it looks like.

She stuffs some blood-stained clothes into a duffel bag along

with some stakes.  She tosses the bag in the closet.

EXT. THE GYM - PROM NIGHT

Dozens of limos pull up.  Kids pour inside.

INT. THE GYM - NIGHT

The party is underway.  Streamers everywhere, tables by the

windows.  Couples dance, a D.J spins the tunes.  There is a

setup in one corner for taking prom pictures.  The kids are

all very elegant and hip.  Every shade of black is represented.

ANGLE - PUNCH BOWL

Nicole and Kimberly stand by the punch bowl, chatting.  They

are both wearing slinky little black dresses.

ANGLE - THE DOOR

There are two: at one end, leading to the house (it's closed)

and one leading outside.  Gary Murray stands by the outside

door, on guard, as students enter.  He is looking disdainfully

at Andy and holding a flask he has confiscated.

Buffy enters the gym.  She is wearing a long white strapless

gown.  It is lovely, but very conservative for this crowd.

Over her shoulder is a purse that goes with the dress.  She

enters hesitantly, looking around her for Jeffrey.  She passes

Andy, who is moving away from Gary Murray.

But Andy has moved on.  Buffy works her way through the crowd

to the punch bowl, sees Nicole and Kimberly.  They stop

whispering real quick.

Nicole and Kimberly look at each other significantly.

She picks up a glass of punch.

Buffy is startled by this attack.  Nicole giggles.

Jeffrey suddenly appears between them.  Jennifer is on his

arm.

She stops, as everybody assesses the situation.  Buffy is

shocked, doing a slow fade to hurt.  Jeffrey is uncomfortable.

Jennifer is apoplectic with embarrassment.  Kimberly is in

serious giggle, Nicole a bit more restrained, checking it out.

-- who is practically hyperventilating, pulling at his arm

like a dog on a leash.

At the mention of her name Jenny jumps, and in her haste to

get away, she bumps into Buffy's arm, spilling bright red punch

on Buffy's chest.  She flees, Jeffrey in tow.  They leave the

gym.  Kimberly finds it all pretty funny.  Nicole is silent.

Buffy turns away, toward the wall.  A soft BALLAD come on over

the SPEAKERS.  Tears are forming in Buffy's eyes, as she wipes

futilely at her dress.  Finally she turns, looks toward the

door.

BUFFY'S POV

Pike is there, walking in on his own.  He wears a leather jacket

and baggy old tux pants, accented by chains, earring and unlaced

Doc Martins.  He looks great.

He walks directly toward Buffy, and does turn a few heads.

Pike picks up a glass of punch as he notices the stain on

Buffy's dress.  He looks about him a bit, then without

hesitation dumps some punch on his lapel, matching stains.

Buffy smiles at him.

They begin slow dancing, not too close.

They dance for a while, closer and closer.

Buffy pulls him closer, holds him, whispers almost weakly in

his ear.

We see couples dancing, kissing... Gary Murray watching them.

ANGLE - KIMBERLY

Sitting by the window with her bovine date, she watches Buffy

dance disdainfully.

The window SHATTERS by her head, a vampire's hand reaching for

her.  She screams, starts back.

Other windows shatter, vampires appearing all around.  A couple

of students run for the inner door but it is locked shut from

the other side.

Gradually the party stops as everybody becomes aware of the

situation.  They vaguely herd to the middle of the room.

ANGLE - BUFFY AND PIKE

Looking around, assessing the situation.

ANGLE - OUTER DOOR

A STUDENT runs staggering in, blood spurting from his neck.

He falls to the ground, a few feet in front of the doorway.

Nobody moves for a second.  Then one of the students starts

toward the body.

Buffy does instead, checking the lifeless body and listening

as a number of figures begin to lumber toward the door through

the mist.

Buffy steps back as three 17-year-old vampire come to the door.

Everyone looks at her.

Pike reaches into an inner pocket and pulls out a number of

small stakes he has made, hands them to Buffy.  She opens her

purse.

ANGLE - INSIDE THE PURSE

Cosmetics, hair spray, etc.  She fits the stakes in.

They fade back, almost out of sight.  Pike looks out the window.

More are gathering.

But other students have picked up the cry, are clamoring to

sacrifice Buffy.  Pike crosses to his bag, sitting by the door.

Two guys move toward Buffy, Andy intervenes.  Pike steps in

front of Buffy, holding his custom made cartridge-load crossbow.

Trains it on the others.  They quiet down.

Buffy looks at the partygoers.  Her friends.  They stare back

at her, scared, angry.  She looks out the door.  Back at her

friends.

Andy looks at her a moment, moves off.  Buffy goes to Pike's

bag, starts pulling out stakes.

Buffy stands up.  She kisses Pike very hard on the lips.

She kneels down, begins to rip the hem of her dress.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE GYM - NIGHT

We see the doorway to the gym.  A mist has risen around the

entire house, swirling about the feet of the undead who stand

clustered about it.  Some have keen and eager expressions,

some vacant, half-conscious with bloodlust.  They wait.

A figure appears in the doorway, walking slowly out.  Buffy.

Her torn dress now comes to just above her knees.  She wears

Pike's leather jacket over it.  She wears her purse strapped

across her chest under the jacket.  In one hand she holds his

crossbow; in her other hand is a cross.  As she steps further

away from the doorway, the vampires slowly begin to close around

her.

The door shuts behind her.

INT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Kimberly and some of the others are anxiously barricading the

door.  Pike looks out the window after Buffy.

EXT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

The vampires move closer and closer.  They circle her.  She

waits, apprehensive.  When they are about eight feet from her

she whips out a bottle of Perrier.  She sprays it all around,

searing the inner circle.  Screaming, they clutch their faces.

INT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Others are watching as well.  Andy comes up with some chair-

made stakes, hands some to Pike.

EXT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Buffy is defending herself in an astounding blur of gymnastics

and martial arts.  Leaping, throwing kicks, punches, and the

odd stake, she manages to scatter them enough to make a run

for it.

INT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Everyone is watching through the windows as the vampires follow

after Buffy.

EXT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Almost as if it heard that, one of the vampires turns toward

the gym, grinning hugely.  It and at least half the others

turn back toward the easy pickings inside.

INT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Students start mobilizing.

Andy and some others drag a table forward.  Pike helps hoist

it up against the window.  He looks one last time outside,

then covers it up.

EXT. CAMPUS LAWN - SAME TIME

Buffy runs.  She heads toward the nearby cluster of school

buildings.  Close behind are the undead.  She passes a line of

parked cars.

ANGLE - CAR

Jeffrey and Jennifer are in the back of his parked BMW, making

heated, clumsy love.  We can see them through the window.

As they are spouting this nonsense, Buffy zooms IN and OUT OF

the FRAME behind the car.  After a second she walks back INTO

the FRAME, staring at the two of them.

She books out again, the horde on her heels.

INT. JEFFREY'S CAR - SAME TIME

Jeffrey looks up and out the window.

JEFFREY'S POV

Vampires swarm about the car in pursuit of Buffy.

Jeffrey goes wide-eyed at the sight.  Starts climbing off

Jennifer and into the driver's seat.

EXT. THE CAR - SAME TIME

The car roars off.

INT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Windows and the boards covering them begin to smash inward.  A

student pounding in nails is caught, pulled out the window.  A

vampire crawling in is spiked by Pike.  Another makes it in

and is smashed on the head repeatedly by Andy.  It staggers,

smilingly, and turns toward him.

Andy manages to shove the two-by-four in its heart just as it

gets its fingers around his throat.

Kimberly screams.  One of them has hold of her, starts pulling

her out the window.  Nicole runs to her, starts pulling the

vampire's hands off her.  Suddenly, the vampire grabs Nicole

instead.  Off balance, she is almost out the window before

Kimberly can react, and all Kim can do is scream.  Andy and

Pike make it to the window too late; Nicole is pulled out, and

they swarm over her.

INT. TUNNELS - SAME TIME

A vampire catches up to Buffy.  She shoots the last crossbow

shaft at it.  Shucks the bow away as another reaches her.  She

wrestles with it, fights it off but doesn't kill it.  Moves on

as more approach.

INT. THE GYM - SAME TIME

Students are still holding most of them at the windows.  One

or two have gotten in.

ANGLE - THE RECORD PLAYER

A junior vampire has snuck behind it and is going through the

records.  He stops, finding one he likes, and starts to put it

on.  MUSIC: "Teen Angel".  It wafts over the carnage in the

gym, lending it a surreal and dreamy quality.

Hearing the music, another vampire grabs Kimberly and starts

dancing with her.  She screams a lot.

It's about to plant one on her neck when Pike stabs it in the

back.  Pike turns from the dying vampire and is face to face

with Benny.

Pike is frozen for a moment.

EXT. OUTSIDE SCHOOL BUILDING - SAME TIME

Buffy approaches the nearest building to the gym.  The vampires

are several feet behind her, some twenty of them.

The door is locked.  She smashes it in with her shoulder.

Runs inside.

A few vampires are about to follow Buffy into the building

when a hand is suddenly raised before them, stopping the.

Slowly they start fading back.

It is Amilyn.  He smiles at the other vampires, and raises his

fingers to his lips.

Shhhh....

INT. THE GYM - CLOSEUP ON A TABLE - SAME TIME

Pike is slammed down onto it, Benny's face inches from his.

"Teen Angel" has been replaced by some hard rock.

He hoists Pike up and backhands him in the jaw, sends him flying

against a wall.  Pike shakes his head as Benny comes at him

again, no longer smiling.

He turns suddenly and grabs a girl, yells in her face.

She faints and he drops her, turns back to Pike.  Pike is

getting shakily to his feet.  Blood trickles down his forehead.

ANGLE - ANOTHER WINDOW

Gary Murray, yelling orders at student, holding a board against

a window as vampires pound on it.  The exposed part of the

window above him shatters, raining glass on his head.

ANGLE - THE PHOTO SETUP

A vampire is clutching a helpless girl as another vampire takes

their picture with an Instamatic.  He expresses confusion and

dismay when his image does not come out in the photo.

ANGLE - PIKE AND BENNY

Pike is backing away from Benny, who is approaching him.  Pike

passes an overturned table, the stubs of its broken legs

sticking up at the ceiling.

Benny grabs him with hateful force.  His fingers dig into Pike's

arms enough to draw blood.

Pike suddenly grabs Benny, holds him tightly in a brotherly

embrace.  Benny is thrown slightly by this.

Still holding him, Pike pitches onto the table, driving the

leg-shard through Benny's back.  Pike still holds Benny as he

twitches and screams, dying.  Finally, he lets go, gets up.

He looks a little dazed, a little lost.  A window shattering

far behind him pulls his eyes back into focus, and he goes to

help.

ANGLE - KIMBERLY

Sitting by a wall, tiny and silent amid the carnage.

INT. HALL - SAME TIME

Buffy moves quickly along, crouching near a window and peering

out.  Nothing.  She looks about her, waiting for an attack.

She checks her purse.

ANGLE - BUFFY'S PURSE

Cosmetics and hair spray.  A small cross.  No stakes left.

Muttering under her breath, she moves swiftly into a classroom.

INT. CLASSROOM - SAME TIME

Still moving cautiously, she heads for the window and pulls

down the shade.  She crouches behind the teacher's desk and

pulls the chair down to her, laying it on its side.

She slams her elbow down on the chair leg -- very controlled,

efficient motion -- and snaps it off.  Looks around to see if

anyone is around to hear as she picks up the leg, now a weapon.

She goes softly to the door, peers cautiously out.

CLOSEUP - BUFFY

Looking out.  Amilyn's face appears right next to her, also

looking out.

Buffy screams, turns, and Amilyn decks her, sends her flying

back into the classroom.  The stake flies out of her hand.  It

lands on a desk by the window.

Buffy does not land nearly as well, crashing into a pile of

desks and twisting her leg badly.  Amilyn laughs repulsively,

advancing.

He kicks her again.

He grabs her by the neck with his one arm and pins her against

the wall in the corner.  She reaches for the stake but it is

just out of reach.  He is squeezing the life out of her, his

face inches from hers.

Buffy looks about for succor.

ANGLE - THE WINDOW SHADE

Buffy eyes the bottom of the shade, the pull dangling aimlessly.

She pulls down hard on the shade pull and lets go.

He turns in horror, letting go of Buffy, trying to catch the

shade.  The instant he releases her, Buffy grabs the stake and

in one swift motion, buries it in Amilyn's back.

The shade goes up, flapping loudly as it spins.  It is still

pitch black out.  Amilyn stare, wide-eyed and silent, at the

night as he dies.

Amilyn spins, dying rage in his eyes.  He grabs her.  His

strength is formidable even as his body begins to smoke.

Suddenly screaming, he forces her over suddenly with such power

that the two of them go crashing through the floorboards.

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - SAME TIME

The two of them fall through the ceiling directly into the

blood pool.

Amilyn's body surfaces first, now just a husk.

Buffy pops up from the waist-deep blood, soaked and wounded.

She stays a moment, breathing hard.  Suddenly her eyes go wide.

Lothos rises from the pool, smiling.  Buffy is clearly paralyzed

by fear.

He moves toward her.

Buffy is suddenly galvanized into action.  She throws a few

punches at Lothos, but he takes them without flinching.  She

grabs at the stake in what remains of Amilyn's chest.  Lightning

quick, Lothos closes his hand around her and squeezes till the

stake splinters and she screams with pain.  He knocks her back

on her ass.

She starts moving backward, away from him, but it is hard enough

for her to make her way through the thick gore.  Lothos

contemplates Amilyn's corpse, and his face darkens.

And she is up, turning to run.  He is thrown momentarily by

her insolence.

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - THE BOILER ROOM - SAME TIME

But he is on her the moment she emerges from the chamber,

grabbing her by the hair and throwing her to the ground.

He kneels over her prostrate body.  She is reaching frantically

into her purse.  He runs his hand along her body, a gesture

both lustful and disdainful.

She pulls out a small cross, holds it in front of him.  He

snarls at it, then grabs it, his hand around her.  The cross

bursts into flame.  He holds her hand onto it.

With her other hand, Buffy holds up her hair spray.

She squeezes it at him, the spray catching fire form the cross

and whooshes a jet of flame right into his face.  He screams,

letting her go and backing up.  Hey, his head is on fire!

Buffy turns and hobbles away.

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - SAME TIME

Lothos stumbles about, head all aflame, till he finally pitches

into the pool.

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - HALL - SAME TIME

Buffy comes out of the boiler room and hobbles along, moving

as fast as she can.

She reaches a locked door that says "Gymnasium -- Authorized

Personnel Only".  Puts her shoulder to it.

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - CLOSEUP ON LOTHOS - SAME TIME

As he pulls himself out of the pool, we are treated to a good

look at his new head.  It is charred and torn almost beyond

recognition.  It is so inhuman looking, that we are almost

surprised when it screams!

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - HALL - SAME TIME

The SCREAM fills the hall.  Buffy is still working on the heavy

metal door.  She turns, wide-eyed, at the SOUND.

INT. LOTHOS' CHAMBER - LOTHOS' POV - SAME TIME

We TRACK rapidly through the cave, through the boiler room,

the hall.  We're moving much too fast to be running.

INT. GYM - SAME TIME

Buffy pulls herself up through a trap door in the corner.

Everything stops.  For a moment there is silence.

Buffy gets shakily up.

Pike and the others see her.  Pike and Andy run to her to help.

Gary Murray stops in front of Kimberly, takes her face in his

hand and lightly pops the back of her head against the wall.

Cross-eyed, she slides back down into comatic silence.

She pushes them away.  Lothos crashes through the trap door

behind her, ugly and crazed.  He picks her up, floating a good

two feet off the ground.

He hurls her the length of the room.  She hits a locker, which

opens, spilling out someone's notebook.  The binder falls open,

inside it is a plastic pen case with pens and pencils within.

Buffy looks, by this time, like shit.  She props herself up as

best she can, looks about her.  There is nothing wooden, nothing

sharp, within reach.

Andy charges Lothos from behind.  Pike tries to stop him, but

is too late, as Lothos grabs him by the face without even

looking at him.

Squeeze Andy's head until we hear something crack.  Lets him

drop.  Looks around at the cowed students.

Lothos roars.  Furious, he charges Buffy, his feet just skimming

the ground, racing toward her, violently fast, upon her...

She spins, on her feet in a flash, one quick motion.  She

thrusts her palm forward and stops him, cold, like Superman

stopping a train, palm at his chest.

Silence.  Buffy looks directly into his eyes, the mad rictus

of his face.

Lothos stops, almost wide-eyed, as he looks down at his chest.

Sticking out of the middle of his chest is a small eraser, and

a #2.

He steps back, staring at Buffy.  The expression on his horrible

face seems to have changed to one almost of respect.  Her look

is unfathomable.

Lothos smiles, graciously.

He falls gently to the ground.  He's dust before he hits it.

Silence.  One by one the vampires, stricken, slip out into the

night.

ANGLE - PIKE

Kneeling by Andy's body.  He gets up, and walks toward what's

left of Lothos, warily keeping his eye on the spot.  In the

background we see Gary Murray, running out after a vampire.

Pike kneels by the pile of dust with a pencil in it.

Everybody is looking at Buffy.  She stares back at the students

who cast her out.  Turns and walks out.  Pike follows her.

EXT. THE SCHOOL - EARLY MORNING

We see the direct aftermath; the gym, police cars, people

helping the wounded.  Over this is the voice of a reporter.

EXT. CAMPUS - DAY

Students walk, holding their books talking.

INT. THE CLASSROOMS - DAY

Students passing notes, yawning, falling asleep.

INT. THE MALL - DAY

Students window shopping, sucking on slurpies, laughing.

ANGLE - A POOL

SHOT FROM ABOVE, the blue water FILLING THE SCREEN.  Kimberly

dives gracefully into it, comes up on the other side.

EXT. KIMBERLY'S BACKYARD - DAY

Kim climbs out and joins Jeffrey, Jennifer and a boy and girl

we don't know.  They are all in bathing gear, with fluorescent

zinc on their noses.

Jennifer nods.  Kimberly wrinkles her nose in distaste.

Jennifer glares at him.

EXT. A COURTYARD - LATE EVENING

Buffy and Pike are walking up the elaborate stone drive toward

us.  We can't really tell where they are, but there are trees,

hills in the background.

Buffy leads the way.  She is confident, at ease.  She wears a

large old sports jacket, a baseball cap pulled backward.  Skirt

and sneakers.  Casual, cool, but disarming.  She carries a

knapsack.

Buffy stops at a large, elaborately carved door.  She turns to

Pike.

ANGLE - DOOR KNOCKER

Buffy grabs the large metal knocker, ringed through a gargoyle's

mouth.

And on the boom of the knocker, we see:

WIDER ANGLE - THE CASTLE

The castle.  Archetypal, turreted, terrifying.  Standing lonely

on the craggy hill, drenched in the light of the rising moon.

