INSPIRED BY REAL EVENTS

Pitch black. We hear FOOTSTEPS sneaking up an old wooden

staircase. Two people moving as one.

Topping the stairs, they creep down the hall to the closed

door that protects us. We can hear them behind it,

whispering, bickering insanely, one shushing the other.

The squeak of a door knob slowly turning. The faint click of

the latch. And the door inches open, throwing a razor-thin

shaft of light into the darkness where it illuminates a

As a ten-year-old GIRL sits up in bed. Dead tired. Staring

at the two dark faces peering in at her.

And the door closes, leaving us once more in total darkness.

We can hear them bickering again as they shuffle away, their

footsteps descending the stairs, fading into the uneasy

silence of this old house...

INT. FIFTH GRADE CLASSROOM, LOS ANGELES - DAY

A young teacher (DARLA) chalks a lesson on a blackboard in a

sun-drenched Los Angeles classroom.

A girl in the back row raises her hand.

Darla puts down the chalk and comes up the aisle to where a

slight, fair-skinned girl in a thrift shop dress sleeps head

down on her desk. The girl from the opening scene. LUCY

SHERIDAN. Darla stands over her with obvious concern. Puts

a finger to her lips to quiet the giggles.

She draws the shade. It drops a shadowbox on the sleeping

girl.

INT. COUNSELING ROOM, DEPARTMENT OF CHILD SERVICES, LOS

ANGELES - DAY

A former gang member sitting with his wife and troubled eight-

year-old son. The MARTINEZ FAMILY. A family in crisis.

Sitting opposite is an LA County social worker. Twenties.

Attractive but overworked. EMILY.

It's painful for him to hear that. He loves his son, quit

the streets for him. Overcome by emotion, he nods yes.

He wipes his eyes on his tattooed arm.

The boy looks at his father, has never seen him cry before.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Outside the conference room, Emily musses the boy's hair.

He smiles, nods. A glimpse of the boy he might have been.

The Martinez family heads down the hall, Diego lagging

behind. Emily watches with guarded optimism, knowing their

chances. Then turns to the NEXT FAMILY, welcoming the

INT. EMILY'S CUBICLE - DAY

The hurried opening and closing of files reveals PHOTOS of

abused children. Bruises. Cuts. Broken bones. Emily

trying to locate a single case amid the stacks and clutter on

her desk. An angry mother SCREAMING at her on the phone:

A flurry of obscenities followed by a dial tone. Emily puts

the phone down. Sighs wearily.

Her supervisor WAYNE, forties, gay, leaning in the doorway.

He drops another file on her desk.

He walks off. Emily shoves the new file onto the shelf above

her desk. Looks at it guiltily. Takes it down again.

Handwritten on the front: SHERIDAN, LUCY.

She opens it. A school portrait of ten-year-old Lucy clipped

to the preliminary report. The sad face draws Emily in.

EXT. WILSHIRE BLVD - DAY

An old VOLVO WAGON skirts rush hour traffic on Wilshire.

Faded red paint. Ski rack on the roof. An ancient

bumpersticker says Educate.

INT. VOLVO WAGON - DAY

IPod jacked into the car stereo playing hip alternative

MUSIC, Emily leans on an elbow as she drives, not crazy about

L.A. but at ease with herself.

EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Emily's red Volvo wagon turns in the drive of a single-person

home she rents in a working-class neighborhood.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Cozy. Her haven. Light colors offset dark hardwood floors.

Emily comes in, stack of files under her arm. Tired. Long

day. Drops the files in a chair. Sprinkles some food in a

fish tank. Referees through the glass.

Turns on the tv. World news. Violence. People suffering.

Turns it off. Puts on some quiet music. Hits play on her

answering machine as she flops down barefoot on the sofa with

a magazine, peeling an orange, decompressing.

BEEP.

BEEP. A charming male voice:

BEEP. Emily gives a tired sigh. Faint smile under it.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Noisy, trendy downtown bar. Professional type on a bar

stool. Thirties. Handsome. DOUG. He laughs when he sees

Emily.

She gives him a kiss. Sits down beside him.

They share a laugh. He gestures to the bartender for another

beer.

Emily nods, appreciates that. Recognizes a girl going by in

the crowd. A friend from school. Well-dressed. Career-

oriented. The track Emily might be on if she weren't a

social worker.

Emily nods okay. The girl departs. Emily's beer arrives.

Doug hands it to her.

Emily, sipping her beer, smiles.

Hard to explain. Doug saves her the trouble.

Emily nods yeah, leans in closer, the friendly banter giving

way to a moment of real sincerity.

They exchange a look then Doug clinks his glass against hers.

And as they drink together after a long day, more than

friends, less than lovers...

INT. EMILY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Emily in glasses, reading the Sheridan file on her bed. The

preliminary report concerns her: "Socially withdrawn. Lack

of appetite. Sleeping at school..."

Her gaze returns to Lucy's photo. Sadly, under her breath:

EXT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - DAY

A dark, rundown family home on a once-prosperous cul de sac.

Emily pulls up. Gets out. Checks that she has the right

address. Halfway up the walk something stops her dead in her

A WOMAN'S FACE

staring at her through one of the lacy white curtains

upstairs. Ghostly pale. Gone as soon as she sees it. Emily

stands frozen for a moment. Walks on.

She reaches to knock on the door and it opens abruptly, the

security chain snapping taut. A woman's voice growls at her

from the darkness inside:

Peering through the crack is the pallid, bony face from the

upstairs window. Lucy's mother. MARGARET SHERIDAN.

Emily, rather amazed at the conversation she's having, takes

a newspaper from her bag. Indicates the date.

The door closes in Emily's face. What the hell? Then we

hear the chain unlock. It opens again.

And we get our first good look at Lucy's mother. Gaunt.

Pale. Dark rings under her eyes. She steps aside, not

welcoming Emily in, merely allowing her to enter.

INT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - DAY

It's dark, the curtains drawn. Margaret twitches one open in

begrudging courtesy. The house is tidy but sad, steeped in a

kind of puritanical gloom. Lucy peers down through the

upstairs banister, anxious, unsure what's going on. Emily

sees her, smiles.

Lucy hesitates, sensing her mother's disapproval. Comes

slowly down the stairs. Emily shakes her hand.

Lucy turns shyly away.

Margaret sighs and heads down the hall.

INT. LIVING ROOM, SHERIDAN HOUSE - DAY

Emily, file in hand, trying to project professionalism in an

arm chair that tilts to one side. Margaret and Lucy sitting

opposite on the sofa.

Margaret shrugs.

Shrugs again.

Just then we hear a POWER TOOL go on in the basement. Emily,

sensing the lie, indicates the floor.

Margaret averts her eyes.

Margaret weighs Emily's resolve, gives Lucy a cautionary

glance then exits. We hear her open a door and holler into

the basement over the noise of the power tool.

The power tool stops.

We hear an angry unintelligible reply.

We hear the power tool get thrown aside. FOOTSTEPS pounding

up the cellar stairs. Emily's and Lucy's faces reflect the

same simple fear. Their eyes meet.

Lucy not so sure. The FOOTSTEPS are upon them. EDWARD

SHERIDAN makes his entrance. A menacing man with a gaunt

face and dark deep-set eyes. Emily holds out her hand.

Edward forgoes the handshake, his contempt obvious. Sits

beside Lucy on the sofa. Margaret sits on the other side.

Lucy tenses, trapped between them. Emily speaks with

kindness and composure. Hostile encounters part of the job.

Edward leans over and whispers something caustic in

Margaret's ear.

Edward whispers again in Margaret's ear.

Edward just stares at her.

Margaret nods, gives Edward a look as though for permission.

Emily does well to hide her fear. Refusing to be

intimidated, she engages Edward's stare. A battle of wills.

But his gaze has a murderous intensity she can't match. She

looks down, shuffling papers. Battle lost.

INT. CHILD SERVICES - NIGHT

Emily follows Wayne along a row of cubicles after hours.

He's dropping files on desks. The new cases never stop.

Wayne pauses in mock bewilderment.

Beneath Wayne's humor, a sober, hard-learned practicality.

She walks off. Wayne alone after hours with his conscience.

INT. CORRIDOR, CHILD SERVICES - DAY

The elevator doors open with a DING and Edward and Margaret

Sheridan step out in their Sunday best. Benevolent faces.

Lucy between them, ribbon in her hair, brand new dress,

appearing coached as she eats an ice cream cone.

Emily, disgusted by the charade, trades looks with the

parents as they go past.

INT. PRIVATE CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Gazing fondly at Lucy, Edward directs his comments at Wayne,

who sits opposite the family with Emily.

Wayne nods his agreement. Edward puts his arm around Lucy

for effect. Her eyes go to Emily. A silent plea for help.

With a glance Wayne cautions Emily about her tone of voice.

Edward looks at Margaret, then Emily, affects bewilderment.

INT. BREAK ROOM - DAY

Emily and Wayne in private conversation. She's pissed off.

The Sheridan family in the other room, preparing to leave.

She goes out the door.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Emily walks with Lucy, looking for a way in.

Lucy doesn't take the bait. She stops for a drink at a water

fountain. Emily bends for a sip after. Misfires. As she

wipes her face, embarrassed:

Lucy smiles, for the first time. It's the opening Emily was

looking for. Maintaining that precious eye contact,

Lucy looks away, eyes brimming with tears.

She lowers her head in shame, tears rolling down.

Emily's mouth falls open.

Lucy nods. As Emily registers this in quiet horror...

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

A tape recorder is running. Emily and Wayne alone with Lucy.

She's hesitant to speak, naturally distrustful.

Nobody sees what Lucy sees at this moment. Edward glaring in

at her through the window. Lucy looks at Wayne, shakes her

head. Wayne looks at Emily, case closed.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Emily watches in agony as the Sheridan family steps into the

elevator. Parent on each side, Lucy gives her one last

pleading look then the elevator doors close and she's gone.

INT. WAYNE'S OFFICE - DAY

Emily and Wayne in the heat of an argument.

A look that says he means it.

Emily gives a resigned nod, backing away from him, from the

job, all of it.

She exits before he can answer, doesn't want to hear it.

INT. DETECTIVE BARRON'S OFFICE, POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Detective MIKE BARRON. Veteran of the force. Man of quiet

faith.

A well-built silver-haired family man who played fullback at

Brigham Young. He's doing paperwork. Smiles warmly as Emily

enters.

She drops Lucy's file on his desk. Whatever Barron was going

to say is no longer relevant. Soberly, after a pause:

She starts to open the file. Barron stops her.

Tense beat. The need for privacy now apparent, Barron gets

up and closes his door. Sits down at his desk again.

The blade of a circular saw SCREAMS through a pinewood board,

spitting sawdust...

A ten-pound hammer CRUSHES the head of a nail, sinking it,

CRUSHES another, CRUSHES another, the speed of the handiwork

conveying its urgency...

INT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - NIGHT

Lucy peering into the basement through an air vent in the

floor, vertical bands of light on her face. Edward hammering

down below. He steps aside and we see what he's making...

A HOMEMADE COFFIN

Sensing Lucy's stare, he glances up over his shoulder. And

Lucy ducks out of sight, breath held.

EXT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY

Children waiting for the bus after school. Talking,

laughing. Lucy stands apart, tired and solemn. The bus

pulls up to the curb. As she goes to get on:

She turns. Emily behind her.

Lucy hugs her, clinging for a moment.

Emily holds her gaze, seeing the fear. Backing away, Lucy

indicates the bus.

Lucy turns to go. Emily watches. Helpless.

Takes her cell phone from her bag. Puts her number on speed

dial.

Tucks the cell phone in Lucy's coat pocket.

Lucy boards the bus. Waves to Emily from a back window as it

drives away. Emily waves back, heart in her throat. Might

be the last time she sees her alive.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A sleepless night finds Emily slouched on her sofa, leaving a

BEEP.

Hangs up. Clicks on the tv remote. Channel-surfs. World

news. Cooking show. Home shopping network.

Hip-hop music video. Watches it for a moment. Gangster with

a mic. Scantily-clad girls shaking their asses.

The phone RINGS. Emily mutes the tv, picks up.

A child's whisper.

INT. LUCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The cell phone lying on the bed at Lucy's fingertips.

The illuminated screen casts an eerie glow on her SLEEPING

FACE.

INT. EMILY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Emily drops the phone. Moment of panic. Then a decision.

Throws a coat on over her bed clothes. Grabs the phone

again, dials a number in desperation.

EXT. EMILY'S CAR - NIGHT

Emily fumbles with her keys. Gets the right one in the door.

Opens it. Jumps in. Starts the engine. Peels off down the

road.

INT. LUCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The cell phone turns itself off, plunging the room into total

darkness.

In BLACK, we hear FOOTSTEPS coming up the stairs. Down the

hall. Stopping at the door. The knob turning. The click of

the latch. The door opening. A shaft of light. Edward and

Margaret peering in with frenzied anticipation:

Lucy is asleep. The time has come.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - NIGHT

Emily red-lines the tachometer, doing ninety down the

freeway.

INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Slowly, quietly, Edward descends the stairs with Lucy asleep

in his arms. Margaret in front of him, moving in tandem,

holding a roll of duct tape.

They reach the bottom. Margaret rushes ahead into the

kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Edward carries Lucy toward the OLD GAS OVEN where Margaret

waits, holding open the door.

Delicately, cradling her head, Edward puts Lucy into the oven

without waking her. But as he lifts the door, one of the

metal hinges CREAKS.

Lucy jolts awake with a SCREAM. Kicks open the door before

Edward can shut it. With animal terror she thrashes her way

out onto the linoleum floor. Margaret throws a piece of duct

tape over her mouth, silencing her screams as Edward wrestles

her back into the oven. But she kicks open the door again

and the frantic struggle continues as...

EXT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - NIGHT

Emily's car lurches to a stop out front. As she jumps out,

Barron's pickup arrives. He joins her, a reluctant

accomplice.

She goes up the walkway. Barron lagging a few steps behind,

eyeing the darkened house.

Emily hears something inside the house.

Emily, trusting her gut, starts pounding on the door.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hearing Emily, Edward and Margaret intensify their efforts,

jamming Lucy's legs inside the oven. The duct tape peels off

her mouth in the struggle and before the oven door slams shut

she belts out one last desperate SCREAM.

EXT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - NIGHT

Clearly audible outside, it makes Barron jump.

Barron pounds his big fist on the door.

Barron rams his shoulder against the door, but it holds

solid.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

We see Lucy's screaming face through the oven window as

Margaret cranks the temperature dial as high as it will go.

INT. GAS OVEN - NIGHT

From inside we see Edward and Margaret peering in as Lucy

claws at the glass with her fingernails. Coughing as the gas

fills the oven with a low hiss. We hear it ignite beneath

her with a faint poof. The first shimmering waves of heat

rising up, singeing her hair.

EXT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - NIGHT

Emily, hysterical, knowing they're too late:

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT

The front door comes crashing down, kicked off its hinges by

Barron. Emily and he race in.

They take off toward the kitchen at the end of the hall.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Emily and Barron rush in. Emily sees Lucy trapped inside the

oven. The sleeve of her pajamas catching fire.

Edward tries to fend Barron off. It's a mistake. Barron

unleashes a devastating blow that sends him recoiling into

the fridge so hard the back of his head leaves a visible dent

in the door.

Emily shoves Margaret aside and throws open the oven. Pulls

Lucy out onto the kitchen floor, swatting out her burning

pajamas with a dish towel.

Margaret grabs a steak knife and rushes at Emily, but Barron

has her covered. Backhands Margaret so hard it spins her

around fully before dropping her to the floor.

Pajamas scorched, wild with terror, Lucy cries in great

heaving sobs in Emily's arms. Reduced to tears herself,

Emily keeps saying the same thing over and over.

Shielding her from the sight of her parents: Margaret

sprawled on the linoleum weeping. Edward slouched against

the fridge, blood pouring down his shirt, his broken jaw

hanging open like a man thinking wow.

INT. COUNTY COURTROOM - DAY

Edward and Margaret holding hands at the defendant's table,

remorseless and defiant in their Sunday best. Among the many

spectators we find Emily and Mike Barron. The STATE

PROSECUTOR and PUBLIC DEFENDER addressing the JUDGE.

Emily rolls her eyes at Barron, some justice system.

EXT. COURTHOUSE PARKING LOT - DAY

Barron walks Emily to her car. She's outraged.

Barron hesitates. He's crossing the line by telling her

this.

INT. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL - DAY

Lucy in a hospital bed, dressings on her hand. Emily's

friend Doug sitting bedside. Child psychologist.

Lucy nods, not entirely convinced. Doug gives her a pat,

crosses to the exit. At the door he runs into Emily. Shakes

his head, awed at what she did.

He nods - no kidding, heads off. Emily comes over and sits

on Lucy's bed. Strokes her hair.

Lucy gives a sad nod. Emily touches her arm.

EXT. STATE CHILDREN'S HOME - DAY

No frills, purely functional housing. Emily comes up the

steps with Lucy and knocks. The COORDINATOR answers. A kind

but beleagured-looking woman of fifty, who is surprised to

see them.

Emily rolls her eyes. Lucy standing there holding a

suitcase.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAY

Through the windshield Lucy watches Emily on a pay phone

outside a convenience store. Her back is to us but you can

see she's arguing with someone, scratching addresses off a

typed list with a ballpoint.

Emily gets in and starts the car, putting on a smile.

Heartbreaking. Emily can't lie. She turns off the engine

and leans back with a sigh. Lucy's silence is a plea for

rescue.

A ten-year-old girl stranded at a convenience store, suitcase

in her lap. Emily stares out the windshield, wrestling with

her conscience.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

At a round table, Emily addresses the CHILD WELFARE PANEL,

six grave-faced administrators. Wayne is here, offering

support.

The head of the panel is a bloated bureaucrat in a polka dot

blouse (NANCY).

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Emily comes out and nods yes to Lucy who waits with a

guardian. As they hug:

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Emily walks Lucy through the house, showing her around,

tidying things self-consciously.

INT. LUCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

They stop in the doorway. A small office in which Emily has

made space for a bureau and a bed. Professional books and

backup case files pushed aside on a shelf.

Lucy nods yes.

Beneath the measured tone Emily's pain is revealed, raw and

untouchable, her entire life a rebellion against it. She

opens Lucy's suitcase on the bed. Pauses, remembering

something.

Lucy comes over to help unpack the clothes.

Lucy in bed, sipping a cup of tea as Emily brushes her hair.

Lucy nods that it's good. Emily brushes her hair. A natural

bond between them.

Nice moment for Emily. A rare triumph. She tucks Lucy in.

Turns off the bedside light.

Lucy settles. Emily pauses at the door, looks back at the

lost child she's taken in, then closes the door halfway.

EXT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - DAY

Dark, abandoned. Emily's Volvo pulls up.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAY

She eyes the house. It haunts her, the memory of what

happened.

A SUDDEN KNOCK on the window makes her jump out of her seat.

The guy there gestures a friendly sorry, didn't mean to scare

you. White shirt and tie. A COURT CLERK.

EXT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - DAY

Emily signs a form as he unlocks the door, letting her in.

INT. SHERIDAN HOUSE - DAY

Emily closes the door, glances around the dark interior.

Through a window she sees the Court Clerk drive off. She's

alone. It's quiet, eerily still.

She goes up the stairway. Slows, noticing something on the

A FAINT SQUARE where a picture once was hung, the wallpaper a

half tone darker underneath. More SQUARES farther up. A few

nails still sticking out.

INT. LUCY'S BEDROOM, SHERIDAN HOUSE - DAY

Tattered lace curtains sway in a draft beside a bed with a

moth-eaten coverlet. Emily packs Lucy's spare clothes into a

dufflebag. Zips it and walks out.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

Exiting Lucy's room, she notes the door to Edward and

Margaret's bedroom, at the far end of the hall, is slightly

AJAR. Succumbs to a natural curiosity.

INT. EDWARD AND MARGARET'S BEDROOM - DAY

The door pushes open, Emily peering in. A sad little master

bedroom with old floral printed wallpaper and water stains on

the ceiling.

She explores the room, inspecting various personal items -

aftershave, glasses, hair brush - looking for clues to their

madness.

An ALARM CLOCK with a cracked crystal face. She picks it up

and it GOES OFF in her hand. Gives her a scare. She puts it

down. Sees something out the bedroom window. Steps closer.

Parts the curtains.

In the backyard, by the garden shed, a long rectangular hole

has been dug. A SHALLOW GRAVE filling with leaves. Edward's

handiwork. Emily's seen enough, heads for the door.

But slows, noticing something odd as she comes back around

the bed -

A LONG DEEP SCRATCH

in the wooden floor, hidden under a long runner rug. Emily

peels back the rug and finds -

HUNDREDS OF LONG DEEP SCRATCHES

in the floorboards leading toward the door. Something - the

old oak bureau perhaps? - has been dragged repeatedly across

the room.

Emily comes over and looks behind the door and sees, on the

back of it, something even more bizarre -

TWO MASSIVE DEADBOLTS

screwed hastily, crookedly, into the wood. She closes the

door. Slides-to the big heavy bolts -

CLUNK.

CLUNK.

Pauses. Looks again at the bureau. Slides it in front of

the door, a wheelless caster bracket leaving another long

scratch in the hardwood. And it's clear at this point what

the deadbolts and bureau add up to -

Emily stares at it. Looks over at Edward and Margaret's bed,

imagining them here behind this door. Slides the bureau

aside. Opens the deadbolts. And as the door swings open she

is looking straight down the hall at

Emily stares, bewildered.

INT. GROUP THERAPY ROOM - DAY

ABUSED CHILDREN aged eight to thirteen sit in a circle of

folding chairs. Lucy among them. Diego. Doug facilitating.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE GROUP THERAPY - DAY

Emily looks in, waiting with other parents. Lucy sees her in

the window and sneaks her a little wave. Emily smiles and

holds up a hand that says, hi, hon. It's clear from these

gestures how close they've gotten.

Emily and Doug walk together after session. Lucy talking to

other kids her age by the elevator.

Emily accepts the compliment.

As they part ways...

INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAY

Emily pulls up in front of Lucy's school. Big moment for

Lucy. New clothes. New haircut. New life.

Lucy nods, apprehensive, but she's ready to face it. Emily

hugs her.

Lucy gets out. Pauses on the sidewalk.

Emily, touched, smiles.

Lucy goes up the walk. Emily watches her safely into the

building.

INT. CHILD SERVICES DEPARTMENT - DAY

Emily draws grim looks as she crosses the common area. A

pall hanging over the entire department. The first person

she walks past says:

The second person:

She comes past Wayne's office. Empty. A coworker points

over toward Emily's cubicle - he's there. She goes over.

Wayne's inside, grave-faced, looking for a file. He finds it

on the shelf. A photo of eight-year-old DIEGO clipped inside

the cover. The boy we met earlier.

Wayne hesitates, wanting to spare her the bad news.

Emily stands there, jaw on the floor.

EXT. MARTINEZ HOUSE - DAY

A police perimeter around a small house in a tough low-income

neighborhood. Cops and crime scene investigators on the

scene. Local news media broadcasting live. A couple of news

choppers hovering overhead.

Emily pulls up, jumps out of her car. Mike Barron waves off

the uniformed officer who moves to intercept her as she comes

up the walkway to the house.

With an uncertain nod she follows him inside.

INT. MARTINEZ HOUSE - DAY

Emily and Mike Barron come along the uncarpeted hallway.

The master bedroom. A bloodbath.

Emily looks around, aghast.

Barron turns to the window and - WHAM! - AN ATTACK DOG HITS

THE GLASS RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIS FACE. Barron recoils with a

yelp. Then, embarrassed, eyes the TRIO OF BATTLE-SCARRED PIT

BULLS prowling the chainlink-fenced backyard.

EXT. MARTINEZ HOUSE - DAY

Emily and Barron come down the steps.

INT. JUVENILE DETENTION CENTER - DAY

Diego Martinez sitting alone in a holding cell. Confused.

Scared. He sees Emily approaching and immediately breaks

down.

Emily tells the cop at the cell door:

The cop looks at Mike Barron who nods it's okay. The cop

opens the cell. Emily enters. Diego looks up at her,

shuddering with emotion:

Emily, gutted, nods yes. Diego buries his face in Emily's

stomach and sobs.

Emily, devastated, trades looks with Barron through the bars.

EXT. VENICE PIER - DAY

Doug tenderly consoles Emily. Has his arms around her.

They're leaning against the railing, wind on their faces.

Wipes away her tears. The hair from her face.

Lucy on the beach below, walking barefoot at water's edge,

hem of her dress in her hands. Emily watches her and,

finding solace in it, leans into Doug's embrace and closes

her eyes.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

The plaintive cries of seagulls overhead as Emily and Lucy

walk along the surf at sundown, Emily barefoot now as well.

Emily nods, putting on a brave face to spare Lucy.

Lucy nods okay. They walk on in silence for a moment.

Lucy nods, takes her hand. They walk off up the beach

together.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Emily, days later, dressed for work, halves an omelet with a

spatula and slides the halves onto two plates.

There's no answer. Emily goes to get her.

INT. LUCY'S ROOM - DAY

Stops in the doorway.

Sees Lucy hide something under her pillow. Emily comes over,

brow arched, playful.

Lucy guiltily eyes the floor. Emily lifts the pillow.

Underneath it is a photograph.

EMILY, AS A YOUNG GIRL, WITH HER MOTHER.

She looks at Lucy, then at the filing cabinet from which it

was taken. More surprised than upset.

Disarming sincerity. Emily's gaze falls to the photo. Quiet

moment. She sits down on the bed with it.

Emily nods, lost in the image. It's a photo that captures

her entire childhood. Emily and her mother sitting on the

steps of a house, together but apart, like a lost child that

sat down next to a pretty stranger who hasn't yet noticed

her. Emily's ten-year-old face shows the quiet sadness of

the disconnect. Reminds you of a child from her caseload.

Emily fights her emotions and, practiced at the task, wins.

Lucy sits beside her on the bed. Understands her deeply.

Linked by their pasts.

Emily smiles a pained smile and then buries the memory.

Lucy, a portrait of contrition:

Lucy nods okay. Emily moves on, with a loving touch:

Lucy exits. Emily eyes the photo a moment longer then stands

and puts it away in the filing cabinet. She pauses, feeling

exposed, and turns the little key to lock the drawers.

INT. EMILY'S CUBICLE - DAY

Emily stops at her cubicle, registering a surprise. Wayne

handing her case files to three COWORKERS. Awkward moment

for everyone.

They exit. She goes in and stares at the BARE SHELF above

her desk. Her caseload gone. More than an insult.

Everything she cares about.

A pink phone message on her keyboard. She picks it up: Mike

Barron called. Important.

INT. COFFEE HOUSE - DAY

Newspaper headline: "INSANITY DEFENSE FOR GLENDALE COUPLE".

MUGSHOTS of Edward and Margaret below. The morning edition

folded on a table between Barron and Emily. They're drinking

coffee.

Emily knows she's misspoken, but lets it stand.

Barron nods, sips his coffee, a bit uncomfortable.

Emily starts to say something, but stops as a confounding

realization comes to her. And then to Barron.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Lucy sits on the sofa studying a photo of Diego. Emily sits

beside her, her advocate. Barron opposite.

Emily nods yes. Barron, gently, mindful of Lucy's age:

Lucy shakes her head. Barron nods okay, then, speaking to

her as a father might his own daughter:

Complete innocence. Emily nods okay, wanting to believe, but

remembering the stolen photograph.

Barron reads Emily's posture and disengages, stands to go.

INT. FRONT DOOR, EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Exiting, Barron tells Emily as gently as possible:

And goes down the steps. Emily closes the door. Turns

around and there's Lucy. Uncomfortably close.

Lucy hugs her and Emily hugs her back, but she's still

thinking about what Barron said.

INT. EMILY'S CUBICLE - DAY

A PHOTO of Emily and Diego tacked to the corkboard panel

beside her desk. Emily sits contemplating it. Her gaze goes

from the photo to the BARE SHELF above her desk. Her

caseload is still missing. This is bullshit.

INT. WAYNE'S OFFICE - DAY

Emily walks in, power pose.

Wayne, caught unprepared, eating a doughnut.

INT. EMILY'S OFFICE - DAY

Caseload restored, Emily is multi-tasking, opening mail,

sorting backlogged paperwork, talking on the phone:

Hangs up. Doug leans in the doorway, drops a manila envelope

in her in-box. And a computer printout.

But his tone suggests otherwise.

He departs. Emily, alone in her cubicle, scans the test

results with growing concern.

INT. JUVENILE DETENTION CELL - DAY

Diego eating macaroni and cheese from a jailhouse tray.

Emily sets a folded blanket on the bed as she sits down to

talk to him.

Diego nods without looking up.

Diego stops eating. Stares at his food. Shakes his head no -

warily, like someone might be listening.

He shakes his head no. Still staring at his food.

Diego puts down his fork, his fear obvious now, his breathing

quick and shallow.

He looks at Emily, terrified, starts HYPERVENTILATING.

Emily tries to calm the panicked boy as he gasps for air, a

horrible WHEEZING sound in his throat.

INT. INFIRMARY, JUVENILE DETENTION CENTER - DAY

A little two-bed infirmary with unpainted cinder block walls.

Diego in bed on an IV drip. Emily talking to a NURSE by the

check-in desk.

Emily comes over to Diego's bed. He holds her gaze in

silence, a secret he's afraid to tell. Emily speaks at a

whisper, as if to make the truth less frightening:

Diego's PULSE ACCELERATES on the EKG monitor. He gives a

trembling nod.

Diego replies in Spanish, barely discernible, his throat raw:

Diego looks at her, confused, terrified. His RACING PULSE a

jagged green line above the bed.

A chill goes through Emily.

Diego gives another trembling nod. Emily beside him, baffled

and a bit scared.

INT. CHILD SERVICES - NIGHT

After hours, the office is empty, half lit and eerily still.

Emily is photocopying at a work station, haunted by what

Diego said, the harsh upward light accentuating her tense

features.

The CYCLICAL SQUEAKING NOISE we hear is Lucy, in Emily's

cubicle in the b.g., turning herself in circles on the office

chair. Something very creepy about the disappearance and

reappearance of that pale watchful face.

Finished, Emily walks back to her cubicle, thrown by the

sight of Lucy spinning in the chair, walking head-on into

that eerie intermittent gaze.

Emily, unnerved, enters the cubicle.

Lucy stops turning, stares at her, sensing something.

Lucy just stares. Doug appears in the doorway.

Lucy nods and gets up from the chair.

Lucy heads down the hall to the conference room.

His face - what? Emily nods yes. Doug's brow arches then

furrows. He turns and heads down the hall.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Doug sits opposite Lucy at the table, keeps it easygoing

despite what he's just been told.

Awkward pause. Awkward smile.

Opens his file. Takes out her cognitive assessment profile.

Lays it flat on the table.

Lucy steeples her fingers and rests her chin on top, regards

Doug with a look of frank appraisal. It is the face of a

child, but behind those eyes there is a keen intelligence.

Doug did not see this coming.

Pause.

Silence.

Dead silence. Doug skewered by a ten-year-old. A boyish

shyness emerges, a relic from his own youth.

Doug just stares at her.

INT. HALLWAY, CHILD SERVICES DEPARTMENT - NIGHT

Waiting until Lucy is out of earshot down the hall, Doug

confers with Emily by the water cooler. He's sweating,

shaken by the encounter.

Doug pauses, no idea, smiles an eerie smile.

Exits. His paranoia feeding Emily's. In the hush she hears

that faint CYCLICAL SQUEAKING. Looks across the darkened

office to her cubicle where Lucy is turning circles in her

chair again.

That face. That face. That face.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Tense dinner. Emily barely touching hers. Lucy, absently,

but with an almost surgical precision, is CUTTING PEAS IN

HALF ON HER PLATE AND EATING THEM ONE BY ONE OFF THE TIP OF

THE KNIFE. Weird. She stops, self-conscious, looks at Emily

across the table.

Lucy stares at Emily for a moment then sits again. And it's

strange, her posture seems subtly different, stiffer, bonier,

as if all her muscles have drawn taut under her clothes. In

a voice at once innocent and menacing:

Tense silence.

Lucy stares at her, seeing through the facade. Then, oddly

bright, taking a bite of food:

INT. LUCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

EMILY SILHOUETTED in the doorway, keeping her distance as she

She starts to close the door.

A tense pause then Emily walks over and kisses her on the

forehead.

Lucy clutches her wrist as she turns to go.

Emily, trapped, forces a tender smile.

Lucy's EYES GLEAM in the darkness. She turns onto her side

for sleep, but those eyes don't shut even after Emily has

walked out and closed the door behind her.

INT. DOUG'S CONDO - NIGHT

Football highlights on a liquid plasma tv. Doug flipping

through a DSM IV diagnostic manual. The phone RINGS. He

picks up, distracted, scanning the DSM index.

A strange INTERMITTENT STATIC BUZZ on the line.

BZZZZT. BZZZZT. BZZZZT. A telecommunications glitch.

He hangs up. Finds the chapter he's looking for. ANTI-

SOCIAL PERSONALITY TYPE. But he hears it again now -

BZZZZZZZZT BZZZZZZZZZT - louder, deeper - and realizes, in

quiet terror, that it's coming from INSIDE HIS EAR.

INT. DOUG'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Doug opens the medicine cabinet and grabs a Q-tip. Wiggles

it around in his ear and when he takes it out there's a

sitting on the cottony tip, scissoring its wings.

Doug stares in disbelief. Mouth gaping.

He throws the Q-tip in the toilet. Hits the flush lever.

Watches the hornet spiral away. Gone.

Stares at the empty bowl. Did I just imagine that?

Shaken, he turns to the sink. Wedges his head under the tap

and runs water into his ear.

Straightens and looks at himself in the mirror, toweling his

face, trying to impose rational thought on the situation.

But as the water spills from his ear, down his neck, onto his

shirt, it brings with it -

TWO MORE LIVE HORNETS, half drowned.

With a yelp Doug swipes them from his shirt. Crushes them

underfoot. Terrified, but clinging to rational thought a

moment longer, he turns his head sideways to the mirror,

parts his hair, and sees -

ANOTHER HORNET crawl from the ear canal, followed by SIX OR

SEVEN MORE!

Rationality goes out the window. He flails at them with the

towel. Swats them dead. Picks them up and drops them in the

toilet. Studies the last one for a moment. Its little legs

twitching. Drops it in. Flushes.

A false respite. And a brief one. Because as the FLUSHING

NOISE FADES he can hear an ominous DEEP BUZZING SOUND RISING.

It's coming from behind him. He turns to have a look.

Nothing there. Bare wall.

But it's strange: the BUZZING IS STILL BEHIND HIM.

With dawning horror Doug turns and checks his back in the

mirror, sees

HIS ENTIRE SHIRT BACK IS CRAWLING WITH HORNETS!

Whimpering like a child, he undoes the buttons of his shirt,

taking it off as delicately as possible. Slipping his arms

gently from the sleeves.

Holding it by the collar, he takes two quick steps and tosses

it in the shower. Slams the glass door, seals the crack with

towels. And watches the hornets fly around in the glass

enclosure, BUZZING FURIOUSLY, bouncing off the glass.

But as he backpedals he realizes the FURIOUS BUZZING is too

close, too loud and too deep, to be coming from the shower

over there. A sharp pain in his head confirms it. He GROANS

and brings a hand to his ear as something awful happens

inside.

The BUZZING in his right ear spreads to his left - LOUDER,

ANGRIER, its sources multiplying. Disoriented, he stumbles

backwards with an AGONIZING SCREAM. Catches sight of himself

in the mirror, the terror of the moment on his face. This

can't be happening.

And now the nightmare takes a devilish turn. Looking at

himself in the mirror, he sees -

HORNETS START CRAWLING FROM HIS NOSE. FROM BETWEEN HIS LIPS.

FROM UNDER HIS EYELIDS. THE BUZZING NOW UNBEARABLY LOUD. AN

ENTIRE SWARM RAGING INSIDE HIS SKULL, FIGHTING ITS WAY OUT!

Doug grabs his head in both hands and starts shaking it,

trying to shake away the madness inside. But the hornets

keep coming, COUGHED UP IN CLUMPS as he gasps for air.

They're all over him, stinging his tongue, his eyes.

He goes berserk and starts SMASHING HIS HEAD against the

wall, the door, the edge of the sink, anything he can find,

opening a deep gash in his forehead, smashing it harder and

harder because the BUZZING WON'T STOP, cracking his skull,

SCREAMING HYSTERICALLY, pitching his head violently forwards

and backwards like some demon-possessed heavy metal fanatic.

It's a grotesque display that ends on a sickening note when,

with one particularly violent head jerk, he snaps his own

neck - CRACK!!! He sinks to the floor, head askew,

astonished look on his face.

And there he sits, paralyzed, eyes locked on the tv in the

living room where football highlights play in silence. Fully

conscious as the hornets fight their way back into his ears,

nose, and mouth - a pilgrimage back to the mind that bore

them.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE COUNSELING ROOM - DAY

Emily exits a counseling room. Says goodbye to a young

- and comes down the hall toward the common area. A coworker

stands from an adjacent cubicle. DENISE.

Emily dials Doug on a fax/phone by the Xerox machine. On the

BEEP. She hangs up. A dark thought sends her toward the

exit, calling back to Denise -

EXT. DOUG'S CONDO - DAY

Emily knocking on the door of his Marina Del Rey townhouse.

No answer.

She comes down the steps to his car, walks past it and then

stops, noticing the window is open a crack. Slipping her

hand inside, stretching, she extends one finger just far

enough to push the button on the garage door remote clipped

to the sunvisor.

Up the drive, the door starts to open.

INT. DOUG'S CONDO - DAY

A door in the first-floor hallway opens. Emily steps in.

No answer. She comes up the stairs into the LIVING ROOM.

The tv is still on. Muted. Calls up the next flight of

stairs.

No reply. She goes up the stairs and down the hall and

checks the BEDROOM. Empty. The bed unmade. It's when she

turns from the room to go back downstairs that she sees him:

SLOUCHED DEAD AGAINST THE BATHROOM WALL, GUT BLOATED BY

DECOMPOSITION, FACE COVERED IN BLACKENED DAY-OLD BLOOD.

INT. COUNTY CORONER - DAY

With stoic grief Emily walks down the cold, fluorescently-lit

corridor, intercepts a CORONER as he exits the exam room.

He looks at her; pale, bespectacled, a bit standoffish.

Her face the proof. He indicates his adjoining office. They

go in.

INT. CORONER'S OFFICE - DAY

He takes the autopsy report from a filing cabinet. Reviews

his findings.

She turns away crying.

Emily, composing herself, gives a quiet nod. She has no

quarrel with this man.

The coroner files the report, world weary.

INT. CEMETERY - DAY

DOUGLAS J. WINTERS etched in granite. A final prayer read

by a PRIEST as he is laid to rest.

A breeze ruffles the clothes of the MOURNERS. Blows hair

across Emily's haunted face.

Lucy, at her side, sees her grief and reaches for her hand.

Instinctively, Emily retracts it. Lucy registers the slight,

the wider implications.

Emily watches the coffin descend. She weeps openly.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAY

Emily, red-eyed, driving home, sees something in her

peripheral vision that sends a chill through her.

Lucy, gazing quietly out the passenger-side window, is

SWINGING HER LEGS in that contented way children do. A small

but telling detail. Immediately HER LEGS STOP SWINGING,

sensing Emily's stare. And with her head still turned away:

She turns to face Emily, who measures her words.

Lucy holds her gaze. Then, as if to test her, reaches again

for Emily's hand. Trapped in the lie, Emily has to let her.

And as she drives on in that private hell, holding hands with

Lucy...

INT. MIKE BARRON'S OFFICE - DAY

Emily, an emotional wreck, confides in Barron.

Emily's argument collapses. She sits there for a moment,

vexed, her intellect telling her one thing, her gut another.

She gets up to go. Pauses at the door.

INT. EMILY'S CUBICLE - DAY

Emily digs through her in-box, spilling things on the floor.

Finds the manila envelope Doug gave her. Rips it open.

Dumps the contents into her hand.

A VIDEO TAPE

Typed on the label: Sheridan, Marg. & Ed., Prelim. Psych

Interviews.

ON A TELEVISION - Margaret Sheridan sits facing the camera,

responding to the questions of an unseen interviewer. Her

haunted face and frank tone make the interview chilling.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Pulling back, we see Emily alone in a dimmed conference room

watching the tape.

An eerie smile comes to Margaret's face.

Margaret nods.

Stares at him. Her eyes black and unblinking.

Margaret pauses. Seeming afraid for the first time. Some

secrets perhaps best left untold.

Margaret's voice falters. Overcome by grief, she dissolves

into tears. It's a side of her we've never seen. Human.

Margaret nods yes, wiping her eyes. Embarrassed.

Unaccustomed to crying in front of strangers.

CLOSE UP ON MARGARET - face streaked with tears, her pain

deep and undeniable.

VIDEO OF EDWARD SHERIDAN in a violent rage. Pushing his

chair back from the interview table, he stands, screaming

through clenched teeth, his broken jaw wired shut:

A pair of orderlies rush in to restrain him. The CAMERA gets

knocked ajar in the struggle. The tape ends as they take

Edward screaming to the floor.

And that's the interview. Emily stares at the BLANK BLUE

SCREEN, transfixed, lowers her gaze to the table.

There's a PHOTO tucked inside the psychiatric file. Edward

and Margaret in happier times - YOUNG BIBLE CAMP COUNSELORS

in T-shirts and hiking boots on a path through sunlit forest.

Sweet. Innocent. Emily's age. The year they met perhaps.

She holds it up to the newspaper mugshots for a before-and-

after comparison. The transformation of their faces is

shocking. Emily sits frozen by the realization: Edward and

Margaret Sheridan. Not criminals. Victims.

INT. STATE PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

An old brick orphanage turned psychiatric hospital. Emily's

Volvo goes up the winding tree-lined drive.

INT. STATE PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Emily and the CHIEF PSYCHIATRIST walk down a dark,

institutional corridor.

Margaret's door. Emily peers through a little square of

reinforced glass. A padded cell. Margaret strapped to a

bed. Writhing in pain. Laboring to breathe. Eyes swimming.

Emily hesitates, afraid of him.

She casts a departing glance through the window and shudders

to see that Margaret's roaming eyes have locked on her in a

hollow stare.

INT. VISITATION ROOM, PSYCH HOSPITAL - DAY

Restrained in a straitjacket, Edward is brought in by two

orderlies who seat him at a table opposite Emily and then

exit. Jaw wired, everything he says is spoken through

clenched teeth.

His stare unnerves her. She stops and collects herself.

Emily falls silent. Her voice cracks with emotion.

Edward nods yup. Regards her in silence. Emily speaks, or

tries to, just to fill that awful void.

Emily, skewered again, nods yes.

Dead silence. She meets his gaze. And there is eye contact,

true understanding.

After a moment:

It's a question Edward has asked himself once or twice. He

leans back in his chair and folds his arms with an almost

casual air.

Emily silently registering this truth.

After a moment:

Emily sits in haunted silence. Edward's features soften.

A pitying smile reveals Edward's wired teeth.

INT. CORRIDOR, CHILD WELFARE - DAY

NANCY, the bloated director from the custody panel, walking

briskly down a corridor. Emily calls to her from behind,

approaching.

Nancy glances at her watch, nods okay, a minute.

INT. CHILD WELFARE DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Emily and Nancy enter the lavish office.

Nancy nods, not entirely surprised.

Nancy grimaces. Scary lady.

INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY

A CLERK stops in an aisle, hands Emily a DEADBOLT from a

shelf.

He walks off. Emily weighs the deadbolt in hand. Puts it

down and picks up the next larger size. Grabs a second one

just to be safe. A third for good measure.

INT. LUCY'S ROOM, EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

With urgency Emily removes all her backup files from the

shelf in Lucy's room. Dropping them in banker's boxes.

Stops on Diego's. Eyes his photo. Drops it in. Grabs the

office phone, boxes it with the files.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Emily unplugs the phone in the kitchen. Unplugs the one by

the sofa.

Opens the closet and tosses the phones inside with the

banker's boxes she put there. Closes the door. Locks it.

Hides the key.

Just then, a FLASHING RED LIGHT draws her gaze to the window -

A SCHOOL BUS

stopping at the end of the block. Emily crosses to the

window, watching as

gets off and comes up the sidewalk toward the house. Sensing

Emily's stare, she stops and meets it. Waves, testing the

waters. Emily waves back but it's a hollow gesture. Lucy's

smile fades, knowing this as she continues toward the house.

In a sudden panic Emily goes into the kitchen, grabs one of

the knives. Eyes the blade, forced to contemplate the

unthinkable - its use as a weapon, self-defense.

She comes into the living room, holding it. Catches sight of

herself in the mirror. A jarring image:

Sweet Emily Jennings with a butcher's knife in her hand.

The sound of LUCY'S FOOTSTEPS on the front steps breaks the

spell.

Emily hides the knife behind the fish tank. No good, you can

see it through the glass.

We hear LUCY'S KEY IN THE LOCK.

Emily grabs the knife. It's in her hand as the door CLICKS

open, until the last second when she tosses it under a sofa

pillow.

Lucy enters. Shy. Innocent. A ten-year-old home from

school.

Emily returns a plastic smile.

Emily watches unnerved as Lucy crosses to the sofa, to the

very pillow where she hid the butcher's knife, and sits down

to untie her shoes. The point of the knife is almost

touching her leg. If she moves at all, it will cut the skin.

Lucy nods then pauses and looks at the pillow, or appears to,

but she is actually looking at the end table.

Lucy nods oh. Finishes untying her shoes then gets up and

walks into the kitchen, checks the wall, turns to Emily.

Emily, caught in a lie, says nothing.

Emily nods. Lucy heads into the bathroom. Pauses at the

door, back turned.

She turns for Emily's reaction.

Lucy frowns. A bewilderment that seems genuine.

Goes into the bathroom. Closes the door.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Ear pressed to the bathroom door, Emily listens to the

RUNNING WATER: Lucy taking a shower.

She goes to the closet, unlocks it. Grabs one of the phones.

INT. EMILY'S KITCHEN - DAY

It sounds like EMILY'S VOICE is coming from the fridge until

we sweep past it to see her crouching by a phone jack in the

corner. Whispering.

Emily unplugs the phone. And just then hears a SOFT BREATH

behind her. Oh shit. Slowly turns.

LUCY IN A BATH ROBE BEHIND HER.

Hair dripping wet. A chilling stare. How much did she hear?

Lucy walks out. We hear her bedroom door close.

Emily crouched in the corner, holding the phone, terrified at

the thought of what's in store.

INT. EMILY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

THE HEAD OF A TURNING SCREW - Emily installing a DEADBOLT on

her door in the middle of the night.

It's the third lock, the other two already in place. Hands

trembling, she lines up the last screw. It slips from her

fingers. ROLLS UNDER THE DOOR.

She cracks opens the door. Reaches to grab it and lets out a

SHRIEK, recoiling -

standing just outside her door.

LUCY, IN PAJAMAS, HOLDING THE SCREW

She hands it back to Emily, making no overt acknowledgement

of it.

She walks down the hallway to her bedroom.

As soon as Lucy's door closes, Emily closes hers and goes

back to work, doublespeed. Winds that last screw into the

wood and then slides-to the heavy bolts.

CLUNK. CLUNK. CLUNK.

Scooting backwards, she sits against the bed, wide-eyed with

terror, screwdriver clutched in her fist like a stabbing

weapon.

EXT. OLD STONE CHURCH - DAY

A bell TOLLS in a steeple.

Down below, Emily is going against the tide, walking up the

steps past CHURCHGOERS who are coming down after morning

mass. Halfway up, she runs into Mike Barron and his wife and

son. It's awkward, more for her than him.

EXT. CHURCH PARK - DAY

Sitting on a bench in a park that occupies the shadow of the

old stone church, Emily and Mike talk privately. His wife

pushing his young son on a playground swing.

Barron stands from the bench.

His concern edges toward sadness. He indicates the church.

Walks off to rejoin his wife and son. Emily alone on a bench

in the shadow of a church.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE GROUP THERAPY - DAY

The circle of abused children. Lucy among them, a happy

participant. Nancy filling in for Doug.

It's EMILY'S POV - as she spies on Lucy through the window,

second-guessing herself for a moment.

Session over, Nancy dismisses the group with a smile and

theatrical applause.

Emily watches Lucy cross the room. At the coat rack, she

whispers something to another girl. The veil of Lucy's hair

partially obscures her profile, but through that veil Emily

sees something chilling. For a moment, a moment so fleeting

it might just be a trick of the eyes -

LUCY'S LIPS APPEAR THICKER, MORE MASCULINE, SPEAKING CAUSTIC

WORDS THAT HOLD THE OTHER GIRL CAPTIVE.

Emily draws a sharp inward breath. Lucy, feeling Emily's

stare now, turns to meet it. Her SWEET INNOCENT GIRL LIPS

widening into a smile.

But Emily knows what she saw. She throws open the door and

rushes in.

INT. GROUP THERAPY ROOM - DAY

Grabs Lucy by the arm and yanks her bodily from the room.

This, to the amazement of Nancy, the other children -

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE GROUP THERAPY - DAY

- and to the shock of the other PARENTS waiting outside.

Nancy comes after her in a fury. Runs her down. Erupts.

Emily opens her mouth to reply, but Lucy beats her to the

punch.

Nancy, disarmed by the glowing praise, turns back to Emily.

Storms off.

Nancy doesn't hear, busily reassuring parents, damage

control. Emily and Lucy arrive at the elevator. Emily hits

the button.

Emily says nothing. Lucy keeps asking the same question, in

the exact same intonation, as Emily ignores her:

DING. The doors open.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Emily and Lucy step in. The door closes. Lucy continuing

her verbal assault as they start to descend:

Suddenly the ELEVATOR LURCHES TO A VIOLENT STOP. It buckles

Emily's knees. She is terrified, practically

hyperventilating.

Lucy has gotten her attention.

Lucy looks at her as one regards a small dumb animal. Then

looks up at the ceiling.

Horror as Emily realizes what she's thinking. We hear the

first CABLE SNAP above them. In the CREAKING HUSH that

The second CABLE SNAPS. The elevator goes into a HELLISH

FREE FALL.

The acceleration is dizzying.

Emily clutches the rail with both hands, SCREAMING as the

elevator goes cannonballing down the shaft. Lucy indifferent

as they plummet toward certain death.

The floor indicator light races toward L, the car shuddering

violently, the noise deafening. It's a horrible way to die.

Emily closes her eyes in anticipation of impact. And in the

sudden BLACKNESS there's no noise at all. Just a soft,

DING.

A breathless pause then Emily opens her eyes. And sees the

elevator is no longer falling. Never was. The doors glide

open to the first floor lobby.

Lucy gives her a quiet look and strolls out. A businessman

steps into the elevator, watching bewildered as Emily

releases her white-knuckled grip on the railing and staggers

out, so badly shaken she can barely stand...

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Fish swim languidly in the tank. It's after midnight. We're

looking down the darkened hall at Emily's closed bedroom

door.

INT. EMILY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Emily, in a coat and shoes, packing a suitcase. Snaps it

quietly shut. Looks over at the barricaded door. Draws a

tense breath.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

From down the hall we hear the DEADBOLTS SLIDE QUIETLY OPEN.

The door opens a crack.

EMILY'S TERRIFIED FACE peers out. Making sure the hall is

empty.

She steps out, suitcase in hand.

Tiptoes down the hall. Quietly as possible as she comes past

Lucy's door. It's open a crack. The room pitch black

inside. Emily steps closer, breath held. Peers in through

the little crack. Sees -

LUCY ASLEEP IN BED.

But suddenly her EYES SNAP OPEN. Her face horizontal on the

pillow.

Emily backs away. Goes quickly to the front door.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - NIGHT

Emily throws the suitcase in the trunk. Slams it shut.

Comes around to the driver's side door. Jumps in. Closes

the door. And gets the scare of her life.

LUCY IS SITTING IN THE PASSENGER SEAT!

Emily recoils with a SCREAM, throwing her body against the

window behind her. Lucy sits there, silent, betrayed.

It's too much for Emily. She breaks down. Buries her face

in her hands and sobs.

Lucy, after a moment, takes a brush from Emily's bag and

starts lovingly brushing her hair.

Emily slowly lifts her head, resigning herself to this latest

horror. She sits zombie-like behind the wheel, tears

streaming as Lucy tugs gently at the snarls, playing mommy.

INT. EMILY'S CUBICLE - DAY

Unopened mail and new case files piling up. Emily looks

terrible, phone to ear, getting SCREAMED at, sworn at,

interrupted every time she tries to speak.

Emily can't take it anymore. She unloads.

Slams the phone down. Sits there looking rather dazed.

Wayne arrives, dazed in a different way, having overheard.

Emily levels a withering stare.

EXT. LOS ANGELES APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Emily knocking on a door in an outside hallway. It opens.

It's the girl from the bar. BECCA. The friend. Not

expecting her.

INT. BECCA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Emily, disheveled, five days without sleep, doing her best to

appear rational.

Becca draws air through her teeth, pained by her predicament.

Emily nods. And there's nothing more to be said.

INT. EMILY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Stormy night. Heavy rain. High winds. The trees, thrashing

outside the window, backlit by a streetlight, cast OMINOUS

SHADOWS on the walls of the bedroom.

Emily huddles in the corner, wrapped in a blanket, clutching

the screwdriver.

There is a KNOCK on the bedroom door. Emily's EYES JERK WIDE

OPEN. She looks at the door, but doesn't answer.

After a moment, Lucy's voice, innocent, afraid -

Emily says nothing. Heart racing. There's another KNOCK. A

little louder.

Emily says nothing. Lucy starts pounding on the door.

SILENCE.

Emily listening, barely breathing. Is that it? Is she gone?

And then suddenly - WHAM! - WHAM! - WHAM! - the pounding

turns VIOLENT, practically shaking the door off its hinges.

Far too violent for a little girl.

Emily wedges herself into the corner, absolutely petrified.

There is something very strong and very angry on the other

side of that door, SHRIEKING in the voice of a child -

WHAM - WHAM - WHAM - WHAM - WHAM - WHAM!

WHAM - WHAM - WHAM - WHAM - WHAM - WHAM! The door getting

absolutely pummeled, looking like it might splinter from the

force. And it's so intense that it's almost surreal what

Emily is seeing. Lucy's voice eerily monotone, the words

coming inhumanly fast like some auctioneer from hell -

Relentless. Tormenting Emily. Until she can't take it

anymore. And she SCREAMS as loud as she can, half cursing,

half begging, the veins standing out in her neck -

And the POUNDING STOPS DEAD. All we hear is the rain

drumming on the roof. And Emily's QUICK TERRIFIED BREATHS as

she stares at the door wondering what's next.

But there's nothing. Just the shadows dancing on the walls.

It appears the nightmare is over for now.

But not quite.

A sudden CLUNK in the closet makes her jump. Her head snaps

around - what was that? She just stares, unable to breathe

because whatever she just heard is INSIDE HER ROOM!

White-knuckled grip on that screwdriver, Emily stands up and

comes slowly over to the CLOSET DOOR.

Raises the screwdriver. Ready to stab.

Takes hold of the door handle.

Slowly turns it.

Opens the door.

PITCH BLACK inside.

A tense pause as she stares into that blackness, then reaches

a hand into the closet, feeling around for the pull-string.

Finds it. Gives it a tug. And there, right in front of her,

is a vision of unspeakable horror:

Twitching spasmodically in a hospital gown. HIDEOUSLY

BURNED.

She comes at Emily arms flailing, clumsy with rage and

dementia. Emily leaps aside and Margaret goes careening into

the furniture, howling and spinning like some crazed Whirling

Dervish.

Emily scrambles over the bed. Reaches the door. Fumbles at

the deadbolt. Here comes Margaret. At the last second Emily

gets the door open. Runs out.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Tears a path down the dark hallway. Margaret right behind

her, hideous, reeling, hitting the walls with her flailing

arms.

Emily throws open the front door.

EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Dashes from the house into the abandoned street. Running in

the rain. Margaret comes crashing out of the house, chasing

her down the middle of the street.

Emily sees a city bus parked up ahead. Makes a run for it.

EXT. METRO BUS - NIGHT

A metro transit bus idling along the curb. The DRIVER with

his feet up between shifts, reading a porno mag. Emily comes

running up to the door. Pounds frantically on the glass.

The driver meets eyes with her through the door. Keeps

reading. Unimpressed. More pounding from Emily.

The driver points to the sign above the door: OUT OF SERVICE.

Keeps reading. Emily near hysterics at this point. Margaret

closing in fast.

The driver sighs, weighing his obligations. Emily spins,

back to the door. Margaret nearly upon her, ten feet away,

five, four...

INT. METRO BUS - NIGHT

The driver opens the door. Emily dives backwards onto the

bus, the door snapping closed in front of her just as

Margaret lunges for her throat.

It sinks in the second time. Emily scans the sidewalk, the

darkened streets outside the bus. Margaret is gone. Was

never there. The driver opens the door, nods to her - out.

EXT. METRO BUS - NIGHT

With a hydraulic HISS the bus releases its brakes and diesels

off down the empty street. Emily stands alone. Rain-soaked.

Shivering. Staring at her house down the block.

The SILHOUETTE OF A CHILD in the window.

INT. CHILD SERVICES DEPARTMENT - NIGHT

Wayne and his BOYFRIEND shake rain off an umbrella as they

cross the darkened office.

The boyfriend slows as they go past a cubicle. Saw something

weird.

He points. Freaked. Wayne comes over, pokes his head in a

cubicle.

head down on her desk, rain-soaked, sleeping in her chair.

No reply. Wayne's face darkens. Is she dead? He comes

over, puts his hand on her shoulder.

She awakens with a jolt. Expecting to see Margaret. She

looks terrible.

She fumbles unconvincingly at some loose paperwork.

Shocked by the outburst, by her general appearance, he walks

away, muttering to his boyfriend. Emily puts her head in her

hands, pressing down at her temples. Wayne steps into his

office in the b.g. and grabs something then they exit.

And the office is quiet again. Emily closes her eyes. Just

then, she hears -

A faint CYCLICAL SQUEAKING NOISE in the cubicle right next to

hers. Goes rigid. Recognizes the sound. Calls over the

partition without moving.

No reply, but the SQUEAKING CONTINUES. Rising slowly from

her seat, scared as hell, she leans over her desk and peers

over the partition into the adjacent cubicle.

It's empty. But the OFFICE CHAIR IS TURNING as if someone

were just playing there.

Emily steps slowly back. And now hears the same CYCLICAL

SQUEAKING behind her. The opposite row. She spins.

EXT. CHILD SERVICES DEPARTMENT - NIGHT

Walks slowly from her cubicle. Comes along the row of

darkened cubicles, following the sound to its source. This

is the one. She looks in.

Empty cubicle. TURNING CHAIR.

Emily backs away. Terrified. The chair winding slowly to a

stop.

Suddenly, behind her, at the far end of the office, a

different NOISE splits the silence. Emily turns and stares

toward the sound. The XEROX MACHINE. Someone is using it.

No answer.

Emily comes slowly down the aisle to the partitioned

workstation. A torturous walk set to the RHYTHMIC CADENCE of

the photocopier, the HARSH GREEN LIGHT SWEEPING ACROSS THE

CEILING ABOVE IT, again and again and again...

And then it stops, ejecting one final page as Emily enters

the workstation. And sees there's no one there.

She stares at the idle machine for a moment, then at the

STACK OF COPIES lying upsidedown in the tray. She comes

over, picks them up. Turns them over.

The first page is a photocopy of a PAIR OF HANDS PRESSED FLAT

AGAINST THE COPYING GLASS.

Emily stares, haunted. Tense breath. Continues through the

stack.

Successive pages show the same two hands, but leaning forward

into the inky blackness between them is a FACE, its features

resolving into murky focus as it approaches the glass. The

last page is a horrific image. A man screaming in such

terror that his face appears almost deformed.

It's DOUG. The night of his death. Like a snapshot from his

bathroom mirror.

Emily shudders, the stack of pages tumbling to the floor.

Runs out. And we see the photocopies, lying on the floor,

are totally BLANK...

INT. CORRIDOR, CHILD SERVICES BUILDING - NIGHT

Emily, leaving, rushes down a corridor toward the lobby.

Tense. Head on a swivel. Hears MORE SQUEAKING behind her.

Spins.

A NIGHT JANITOR WHEELING A MOP BUCKET

She walks on. Turns the corner and RUNS INTO SOMEONE

UNEXPECTED. Jumps back with a SHRIEK before she realizes who

it is.

A ponytailed woman in her mid-forties, the child placement

specialist Emily called from home.

She shows Emily a custody form with an attached photo:

A KIND HUSBAND AND WIFE WITH TWO YOUNG CHILDREN.

Emily's face darkens.

Emily stares at the unsuspecting family. Lucy's next

victims. She fends off a wave of emotion as the full horror

of her predicament hits her. Then, matter-of-factly, facing

that fear head-on:

As Emily walks off, ripping the custody form to shreds, Robin

utterly confused...

INT. STATE PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Emily sits opposite Edward Sheridan in the visiting room, an

odd sense of camaraderie between them.

Eye contact. Emily looks away, shakes her head.

Emily lowers her gaze to the table.

As Emily registers this...

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Middle of the night, the living room is lit by the eerie glow

of the fish tank. The filter humming. The fish swimming

languidly. Suddenly they DISPERSE, spooked by something

outside the tank.

INT. EMILY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The bureau has been pushed in front of the deadbolted door to

form a barricade. Emily lies in a fetal position on her bed,

exhausted but unable to sleep.

She tenses at the sound of a MUFFLED MALE VOICE in the other

room. Comes over to the door, trying to listen. Thinks she

recognizes it.

No reply.

A moment of indecision then Emily tightens her grip on the

screwdriver and quietly slides open the deadbolts.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

She comes slowly down the hall, following the VOICE to its

source, stops in the living room doorway, haunted...

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Edward's psych interview playing to the empty room. He's

straightjacketed, sedated. Talking directly to the camera.

Emily turns off the tv. IMMEDIATELY IT SWITCHES ITSELF BACK

ON. Emily freezes, realizing the room is not empty.

Turning, she sees Lucy sitting in the shadows holding the

remote. Lucy mutes the sound and returns Emily's stare,

thoughtful, almost empathetic.

Emily nods. The room bathed in the tv's flickering blue

light. Lucy is quiet for a moment. Then, in her innocently

menacing voice, explains the rules:

Emily gives a haunted nod, remembering:

A FLASHCUT of Lucy sitting between Edward and Margaret at the

Child Services meeting, new dress, ribbon in her hair,

licking her ice cream with a wicked little smile.

BACK TO SCENE

Lucy stares coldly at the television: Margaret speaking with

the sound off.

She holds Emily's gaze then looks back at the tv. Margaret's

image reflected in the pupils of her eerie unblinking eyes.

INT. MARGARET'S PADDED ROOM, PSYCH HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Margaret, straps unbuckled, sits on the bed beside a YOUNG

NURSE who checks her temperature. Done, the Nurse heads out.

Terror in Margaret's voice.

The Nurse exits. Locks the door.

CLICK-KA-THUNK. The sound of doom to Margaret.

She stands up, looking around, trembling at what's to come.

Her footsteps sound oddly HOLLOW, METALLIC on the floor.

MARGARET'S POV - surveying the room, we see what Margaret's

hell looks like. It's not a room she's living in...

AN OLD OVEN

With dark scorched metal walls. A bolted-down bed to one

side, perfectly white, like a practical joke.

We can hear the low HISS of it filling with gas. The faint

POOF as it ignites beneath her. The first SHIMMERING WAVES

OF HEAT rising up, singeing her hair.

Margaret runs screaming to the door, claws at the pane of

glass like a madwoman. But there is no escape from the hell

of her own mind. The YOUNG NURSE'S FACE APPEARS there in the

window, shocked by Margaret's insane rantings.

INT. PSYCH HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - NIGHT

Edward, dinner tray in hand, going through the cafeteria line

with other INSTITUTIONAL PATIENTS.

He sits down at a table and starts eating, quiet, lost in his

thoughts. Takes another mouthful of food and suddenly stops

chewing, noticing something very strange:

A BALD, MORBIDLY OBESE INMATE SITTING DIRECTLY ACROSS THE

TABLE IS CUTTING PEAS IN HALF ON HIS PLATE, ABSENTLY, BUT

WITH AN ALMOST SURGICAL PRECISON, EATING THEM ONE BY ONE OFF

THE TIP OF HIS KNIFE!!

He lifts his gaze to Edward. Smiles a knowing, taunting

smile. Then his WIDE WET MOUTH speaks in a little girl's

Edward goes berserk. Launches himself across the table at

the guy, stabbing him in the neck with his fork. Vicious

attack. Unprovoked as far as anyone else is concerned. A

guard rushes over. Edward turns on him, maniacal.

THE GUARD SHOOTS HIM DEAD.

As blood pools around Edward's body, some LUNATIC who

witnessed the event starts to applaud. Others join in. It's

the most excitement they've seen all year. And as the

applause spreads through the entire cafeteria...

EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY

Emily comes down the steps, past the morning paper on the

walkway. Stops dead in her tracks. Stunned. Comes back and

picks it up.

A SMALL PHOTO OF EDWARD ON THE FRONT PAGE WITH A HEADLINE:

HOSPITAL PROBES DEATH.

At the bus stop at the end of the street, Lucy mingles

happily with other CHILDREN. She meets Emily's gaze down the

length of the sidewalk. Smiles and waves goodbye as she gets

on the school bus.

INT. BARRON'S OFFICE, POLICE STATION - DAY

Emily drops the newspaper on Barron's desk. The headline

about Edward speaks for itself.

It's a different Mike Barron than last we saw. Gone is the

quiet assurance. Whatever happened rocked him to the core.

He closes the door for privacy.

Emily sits. Barron cues a voicemail message on his phone,

plays it over the speaker. After a BEEP we hear it. A

SINISTER MALE VOICE, guttural, taunting, the voice of a

DELIRIOUS LAUGHTER followed by a CLICK and a DIAL TONE.

Emily's mouth gapes. After a moment:

Grim pause. Emily digs through her bag. Reaches the bottom.

No cell phone. Staring into the bag, voice wavering with

She loses it for a second. Barron sits in front of her on

the edge of the desk.

Barron registers that in silence. Stuns her, and himself, by

what he says next.

Emily looks at him. Disbelief.

She hugs him. A godsend.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Emily buttoning her shirt after an exam.

The doctor writes on her prescription pad.

Emily watches the pen scribble.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAY

A prescription pill bottle on the passenger seat. Emily,

driving home, glances at it with apprehension.

EXT. HOTEL - NIGHT

A high-rise hotel in downtown Los Angeles.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Barron, saying goodbye to his WIFE and SON, sets down the

overnight bags they've packed.

Kisses her. Turns to his son.

Musses the boy's hair and leaves.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Barron strides down the corridor, his face reflecting the

grim task ahead.

INT. HOTEL PARKING STRUCTURE - NIGHT

His footsteps echo in the parking structure as he walks along

a row of parked cars.

A faint JANGLING SOUND stops him dead in his tracks. He

turns and scans the garage behind him. It's quiet, eerily

still.

He continues onward, but hears the faint JANGLING SOUND again

a moment later. Spins, trying to place it. There it is

again. Closer this time. Something moving, hiding, behind

the rows of cars over there.

He bends, trying to get a look under the cars. Can't see

anything. Unnerved, he moves on, clicks the button on his

keychain remote. The lights flash on his car fifty yards

away.

But as he continues toward it they reveal themselves,

trodding into view from between the cars, CHOKE-CHAIN COLLARS

JANGLING around their necks...

THREE PIT BULLS

Battle-scarred. Vicious. The dogs from Diego's house. They

sit down right in front of Barron's car. It's a surreal

moment, a trio of attack dogs sitting at quiet attention,

square-jawwed, black-eyed, the kinetic calm before a predator

strikes.

Barron draws his gun. Fires a warning shot over their heads.

BANG!

Deafeningly loud, it echoes through the garage like a

thunderclap. But the dogs don't move, just sit there

staring.

Barron lowers his gun. It's time to get the hell out of

here. He backpedals, making no sudden movements, gun still

trained on the dogs.

They watch him, eyes livening with excitement, one of their

back legs twitching in anticipation.

Barron quickens his step and that's their cue.

ALL AT ONCE, WITH EXPLOSIVE SPEED, THE DOGS SPRING INTO

MOTION, VICIOUS AND MUSCLED AND SMELLING BLOOD.

Barron fires an errant shot and takes off running. But he

can't match their pace, the deadly trio race along the row of

police cruisers, closing the gap with ease.

At the last second Barron jumps the partition. The pit bulls

crash skull-first into the concrete, but continue their

pursuit unfazed as Barron takes off up the adjoining ramp.

He jumps up onto the row of cars and runs across the hoods,

denting the metal. The dogs jump up behind him, relentless

in their pursuit.

Jaws snapping at his heels, Barron takes to the car roofs,

the pitbulls leaping from car to car behind him.

He looks back just in time to see the dogs launch themselves.

They hit him at chest height, sinking teeth in his flesh.

Stumbling forward, struggling to keep their jaws from his

throat, Barron doesn't see what's coming. The last car. The

edge of the parking garage.

He's over the edge before he even understands, flailing his

arms for a handhold that doesn't exist. The ground, far

below, flies up at him in a rush of acceleration.

We hear a sickening THUD and find Barron lying face down on

the pavement below, blood pooling around him. Clinging to

life, he opens his eyes and sees the TRIO OF PIT BULLS

SITTING OBEDIENTLY BESIDE HIM, unharmed, watching.

But from a distance we see there is only Barron. Dying alone

between the parked cars. No dogs anywhere in sight.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Emily opens the front door, peers in, trying not to make a

sound.

No reply. She enters. Sees -

THE CLOSET DOOR IS OPEN.

She comes closer.

EMPTY BANKER BOXES strewn in the hall. SCATTERED PAGES.

At the far end, the light is on in Lucy's bedroom. The door

open a crack. A shaft of light spilling out into the

darkened hallway.

Emily comes down the hallway past SCATTERED FILE PAGES.

Preliminary reports. Medical records. Personality

profiles...

She opens the door to Lucy's room.

INT. LUCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Freezes in the doorway, shocked by what lies before her.

Black eyes. Bloody noses. Bruises. Cuts. Burns. PHOTOS

OF ABUSED CHILDREN COVER THE ENTIRE FLOOR. A collage of

misery.

Lucy is nowhere to be seen. Emily comes in and starts

quickly picking them up.

Tucked between the file cabinet and the wall is a CORKBOARD.

Emily pulls it out. It's covered with PHOTOS FROM WORK.

COWORKERS. HER KIDS. Two of the photos are turned around.

She flips them over in rapid succession. Diego. Doug.

She rips all the photos from the board.

Photos bunched in her hands, she heads for the door, but

hears something that stops her in her tracks -

A strange INTERMITTENT BUZZING NOISE

It lasts two seconds and stops. She turns around, scans the

room. Puts down the stack of photos. There it is again:

BZZZZZZZZZZZT. BZZZZZZZZZZZZT.

Sounds like a housefly trapped against a window, but it's

bigger, angrier, and appears to be coming from the

at the foot of Lucy's bed. Emily crosses to it. The BUZZING

STOPS. She bends. Takes hold of a corner. Peels it slowly

back to reveal

Weird. Nothing there.

BZZZZZZZZZZZZZT! BZZZZZZZZZZZZZZT!

Emily straightens, turns. It's coming from the

As she approaches it the BUZZING INTENSIFIES, louder, more

agitated.

Pauses as she gets there, terrified of what she might find,

the bed BUZZING FURIOUSLY FROM WITHIN. Something is trapped

under those blankets, waiting for release.

Emily extends a trembling hand, takes hold of the blankets

and, slowly, rigid with fear, peels them back to reveal

Impossible, because the BUZZING IS LOUDER THAN EVER.

With a tense swallow Emily realizes it's coming from lower,

deeper within the bed, between the mattress and the box

spring.

She slips her fingers into the crack.

And slowly lifts the mattress, the BUZZING GROWING

FRIGHTENINGLY LOUD as its source is exposed, something

hellish waiting for her as she cranes her neck and look to

see what lies below -

HER CELL PHONE

Vibrating. BZZZZZZZZZT. BZZZZZZZZZZT. On the viewscreen:

"INCOMING CALL..."

She picks it up. Stares at it vibrating in her hand.

Presses the TALK button. Brings it to her ear.

The LOW STATIC of an open line. Then, a RASPY MALE VOICE:

Emily flinches.

Emily, stunned, barely able to speak.

Emily's phone hand drops to her side in shock. From down

there, we hear Wayne's voice:

After a moment, she lifts it.

Hangs up. On the brink of emotional collapse. Her only

confidante dead.

Just then she hears BREATHING from behind the open door.

Someone or something hiding in that dark corner over there.

She crosses to it. Pulls back the door and there sits

quiet, innocent, chin on her knees.

Lucy says nothing. Emily grabs her by the arm. Yanks her to

her feet.

After a moment:

WHACK! Emily slaps her. Hard across the face. Knocks her

to the floor. Lucy sits up, lip split. Tastes the blood

with her tongue. Hint of a smile. The taste of victory.

It's there on the floor. A++ Well done, Lucy!

There's a LOUD BEEP in the other room. Lucy gets up and

walks out. Emily watches as Lucy goes into the kitchen.

Takes a bag of popcorn from the microwave. Empties it into a

bowl. Sits down on the living room sofa and clicks on the tv

remote, watching it like nothing ever happened. Emily walks

over and pitches the tv onto the floor. The SCREEN SHATTERS.

Lucy, unimpressed, expressionless, takes another handful of

popcorn. Chews it. CRUNCH. CRUNCH. CRUNCH. Emily swats

the bowl from her hands.

Flicking bits of popcorn off herself, Lucy stands up from the

sofa. Her face catches the light from the hallway. Emily

shudders at the sight.

Lucy's features look altered somehow, sharpened. It's

subtle, but the overall effect is chilling. THE FACE OF A

LITTLE GIRL LAID OVER THE MUSCULATURE OF SOMETHING MORE

DEVIOUS AND WICKED.

Emily backs away, mortified, takes off down the hall.

INT. EMILY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Rushes in. Slams the door. Bolts the deadbolts. CLUNK.

CLUNK. CLUNK. Moment of panic. Will they hold?

Slides her bureau in front of the door. Shoves her bed in

front of the bureau just to be sure.

In the silence we hear LUCY'S FOOTSTEPS coming down the hall

toward the door.

Closer, closer...

There's nothing else to block the door with. Emily backs

away, trembling as

LUCY'S FOOTSTEPS arrive at the door. A tense silence. Then:

Emily grabs the screwdriver, clutches it in both hands.

There's a GENTLE KNOCK on the door. Emily flinches,

remembering last time.

Silence.

WHAM! The door shudders from a MAMMOTH IMPACT. Last time,

it shook the door, this time it shakes the entire wall.

Emily recoils, dropping the screwdriver.

WHAM! CRACKS APPEAR in the door as it bows from the

tremendous force.

WHAM!! CRACKS FAN OUT into the plaster around the doorframe.

WHAM!! Half the SCREWS HOLDING THE HINGES fly from the wall.

WHAM!! The DEADBOLTS BENDING from the ungodly pummeling.

WHAM!! The DEADBOLT SCREWS getting yanked from the wood.

Emily frozen in terror, watching. Whatever's out there is

coming in.

WHAM!! One of the DOOR HINGES rips clean from the wall.

WHAM!! The FIRST DEADBOLT comes flying off.

WHAM!! The SECOND DOOR HINGE gone.

WHAM!! ANOTHER DEADBOLT flies off.

WHAM!! The DOOR SPLITS down the center.

WHAM!! The THIRD DEADBOLT lands on the floor at Emily's feet

with a METAL THUD.

A breathless silence.

Then the DOOR RATTLES and drops loose from the frame with a

DEAD WOODEN CLUNK.

Nothing holding it in place now except the bureau and the

bed. And now they both start to SLIDE BACKWARDS as whatever

is on the other side starts pushing its way in.

Emily topples a high bookcase against the door and pushes

back with every ounce of strength she can muster, but it's no

use. The bureau overturns, CRASHES to the floor. Emily's

bare feet slide backwards along with the bed.

And then they stop. The barricade sufficiently breached.

Emily, in her panic, makes a hasty decision. She hides under

the bed.

We HOLD LOW on the open door as LUCY'S FEET step into the

room, the feet of a child, but the BREATHING we hear sounds

emphysemic and the VOICE is unquestionably male - harsh,

guttural, taunting Emily as it comes for her:

Wide-eyed with terror under the bed, she watches those feet

pick their way over the shattered remnants of the barricade.

The feet step gingerly past the overturned bureau.

The feet stop at the SCREWDRIVER.

A HAND reaches down and picks it up, a girl's hand, but the

fingers as they wrap tightly around the handle look strong

and sinewy.

The feet stand motionless for a moment then turn and come

toward the bed, stopping right in front of EMILY'S HORRIFIED

FACE.

A pause and then, still from Emily's POV, we see Lucy lower

herself onto her knees.

WHAM!! - with shocking force that hand IMPALES THE

SCREWDRIVER IN THE WOODEN FLOOR!

Another pause then both hands come into view, palms flat on

the hardwood, as she leans her head down.

Emily recoiling in anticipation as the face comes into view -

LUCY'S INNOCENT FACE

A little girl. With a little girl voice to match.

Emily, hyperventilating, stares in shock. Lucy reaches her

hand in. Emily backs away, wedges herself in the corner.

Emily, crying now, shakes her head. Lucy, almost

sympathetic, frowns.

Lucy starts crawling under the bed.

Emily tries to go backwards, but there's nowhere for her to

go.

LUCY'S FACE SLIDING CLOSER LIKE THE HEAD OF A SNAKE.

Trapped, Emily screams.

Lucy stops crawling. Folds her arms, sets her chin on them.

Comfortable here under the bed. Delighting in the question.

Lucy weighs Emily's surrender for a moment. Then, oddly

Lucy slithers out and we see her feet scamper from the room.

Emily puts her head down on the floor and cries, covering her

mouth with her hands so she won't make a sound.

INT. EMILY'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

A WHISTLING KETTLE on the stove.

Emily, still in tears, takes it from the burner. Dumps SIX

SLEEPING PILLS from the prescription bottle. Crushes them

with the blunt edge of a knife. Stirs them into a cup of

Chamomile tea.

She freezes at a NOISE behind her. Looks tensely over her

shoulder.

The fridge.

She adds sugar, continues stirring.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

We follow the TEA CUP, in Emily's hand, as she comes

nervously down the hall to Lucy's room. We can see Lucy in

there, waiting for her in bed. Emily, playing the part,

dries her eyes and enters.

INT. LUCY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Sits down on the bed, hands Lucy the tea.

Emily nods. The face of a loving mother. Lucy brings the

cup to her lips, pauses.

Lucy considers this, nods okay, takes a sip of tea. Emily

picks up a brush and brushes Lucy's hair.

Lucy takes a few more sips and sets the tea cup on the

bedside table. Emily, tucking her in, gives the cup a

nervous glance. Did she drink enough?

Emily kisses her on the forehead. Lucy looks up at her and

for a moment she's the little girl Emily met. Innocent,

angelic, closing her eyes for sleep. They flutter open one

last time.

Lucy's eyes shut. Emily, brushing her hair, staring at the

HALF-FULL TEA CUP.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Lucy asleep in bed. Emily watches from the door, wary,

expecting Lucy's eyes to snap open any second.

She doesn't move, dead to the world. Or is it a game? Emily

closes the door. Leans against the wall, shaking,

contemplating her next move.

Wedges a chair under the door handle. Time of the essence.

INT. EMILY'S GARAGE - NIGHT

Junk-filled. The door lifts to reveal Emily, silhouetted,

looking in. Amid the clutter is a lawnmower. Beside it, a

big can of GASOLINE.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Emily stifling sobs as she douses the walls of the house.

The hallway, the bathroom, the kitchen, all of it.

TIP OF A MATCH strikes flint, ignites.

Emily stares at it for a long moment.

Lets it fall.

FLAMES SCURRY in a shimmering blue-gold sheet across the

floor. Climb the walls, the entire house ablaze in a matter

of seconds.

Emily sits and watches as the door to Lucy's bedroom is

engulfed. It's an image straight from hell: A YOUNG WOMAN

SITTING ON A SOFA IN A HOUSE OF FIRE.

The fish, frantic in their tank, catch Emily's eye. She goes

over and grabs the tank.

EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Smoke swirling past her, she exits the house, locking the

front door behind her. She backs away and watches it burn,

holding her fish tank, the only thing she saved.

Billowing black smoke. The house fully engulfed as fire

engines arriving on the scene, sirens wailing. Emily

watching with neighbors on the sidewalk as the FIREFIGHTERS

uncoil their hoses.

The window to Lucy's bedroom is a bright red square, an

inferno. And as Emily stares at it, disbelieving what she's

done, the figure of a CHILD appears.

Her whole body ablaze. Horrific. She just stands there,

arms at her sides, burning.

Just now the FIRE MARSHALL crosses to the onlookers. Hollers

over the noise and commotion:

Emily wavers, not sure what to say. The Fire Marshall sees

her indecision.

Emily opens her mouth to reply, but sees something behind her

that closes her throat.

standing on the sidewalk in her pajamas. Unscathed.

Emily, in shock, shakes her head no. The Fire Marshall

rushes off, walkie-talkie squawking. Emily stands frozen as

Lucy comes through the crowd to her. More dismayed than

angry.

She takes Emily's hand. Together they watch the house burn.

Firelight playing on their faces. The fish bouncing off the

glass in the tank at Emily's feet.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - NIGHT

The blue halflight before dawn. Emily and Lucy sit in the

Volvo, eyeing the scorched remains of the house. The

firecrew stowing equipment. Emily puts the car in drive.

INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAWN

The FISH FLOATING DEAD at the top of the tank in the back

seat as Emily drives down the freeway at daybreak. Lucy

gazing out dreamily at the sunrise.

Emily says nothing. Lucy turns and looks at her, thoughtful,

almost empathetic. She draws up her knees and rests her chin

on top, levels an appraising stare at Emily like the one she

leveled at Doug.

Emily turns on the radio, full volume, trying to drown out

Lucy's voice. Lucy reaches over and turns it off. CLICK.

Lucy, in mock sentiment, puts her hand on Emily's.

Emily looks at her, gutted. But defiant. Turning her gaze

forward, she tightens her grip on the wheel and calmly,

resolutely, JAMS THE GAS PEDAL TO THE FLOOR. The

acceleration pitches Lucy backwards into her seat. She sits

up, eyes wide, didn't see this coming. A suicide run.

A tense smile from Lucy. The tables have turned.

Emily stares dead ahead, red-lining the tachometer. Lucy

flits her eyes skyward. IMMEDIATELY IT DARKENS AND STARTS TO

RAIN. Emily turns on the wipers, speeds on, unfazed.

Emily ignores her, going eighty now, weaving through SLOWER

TRAFFIC THAT FLIES TOWARD THEM OUT OF THE GRAY HAZE. Lucy,

panicking, changes channels like a tv. Innocent child all of

a sudden.

Emily ignores her, beyond apology. And Lucy's face sharpens.

She points down the road.

Through the heavy rain we see -

A TRACTOR-TRAILER RIG CRASH THROUGH THE DIVIDING MEDIAN AND

JACKKNIFE, BARRELING AT THEM HEAD-ON!

Emily goes for the brake, but reconsiders, seeing the truck

for what it is: a test of faith. She welcomes it. Tightens

her grip on the wheel and goes full throttle again, right at

the truck. Lucy shrieks in terror.

Pedal to the floor. Inviting the head-on collision. You can

see the BIG RIG DRIVER in the cab, wrestling frantically with

the steering wheel. Lucy bracing herself, screams -

Emily clenches her teeth in anticipation of impact, of death.

THE CHROME GRILLWORK OF THE TRUCK RUSHES TOWARD THEM IN THAT

FINAL MOMENT, THE AIR HORN DEAFENINGLY LOUD!

But the impact never comes. In the blink of an eye the truck

is gone. Open road in front of them. It's not raining.

Never was. The wipers SQUEAKING on a dry windshield.

Lucy sits in silence, her bag of tricks empty. Emily,

triumphant, turns to her with a vindictive smile, the

speedometer hitting a hundred.

She clutches Lucy's wrist.

Emily jerks the car off the road, crashing through the

guardrail. Trees snapping in half across the hood as they go

careening through roadside woods and down a steep embankment

EXT. LOS ANGELES RESERVOIR - DAY

The car tears through a chainlink fence and leaps off the

high embankment into the water.

INT. EMILY'S VOLVO - DAY

Impacts and sinks with frightening speed. Water rushing in

from all sides. Emily shackles Lucy with her arms as the

water rises to cover their mouths.

They stare wide-eyed at one another through the water. Hair

swirling around their faces as they sink to the bottom.

LUCY'S LIPS CURL INTO THAT CREEPY MANNISH SMILE.

As though she anticipated this. Or welcomes it. Or knows

something Emily does not. And now Emily sees what Lucy sees -

A FIGURE SWIMMING DOWN TOWARD THEM THROUGH THE MURKY WATER.

A HAND pries open the door and wrestles Lucy from Emily's

grasp. Pulls her from the car, swimming to the surface with

her. Emily is left empty-handed, stunned, alone in her

watery grave.

SHE DROWNS IN STAGES, EACH ONE DIFFICULT TO WATCH, THE

INITIAL FRANTIC FLAILINGS, THE HOPELESS PANIC, THE SLOW

DAWNING OF ACCEPTANCE, THE MUSCLES LOOSENING, ARMS FLOATING

LIMP, EYES FIXED IN A BLANK STARE.

And just when her death seems certain, a HAND grabs her by

the shoulder and yanks her out the driver's side window...

EXT. BANK OF RESERVOIR - DAY

Ambulances. Patrol cars. Paramedics. Onshore, drying off

with a towel, talking to a uniformed officer is the PASSERBY

who saved Lucy's life.

Emily goes by on a gurney, semi-conscious, oxygen mask over

her face. Paramedics checking her vitals.

Loaded into the ambulance, she meets the gaze of Lucy who is

being attended to by a female PARAMEDIC, who puts her arm

around Lucy in a maternal gesture, shielding her from the

sight of Emily as Emily did of the Sheridans.

Lucy nods, the innocent victim. Clinging to her protector as

she watches the ambulance take Emily Jennings away.

A TELEVISION - NEWS FOOTAGE

of Lucy wrapped in a blanket sitting beside the female

paramedic in an ambulance. Shivering. Wet-hair clinging to

her face. Portrait of a child victim.

INSTITUTIONAL PATIENTS watching tv in the psych hospital rec

room. Slouched on the vinyl sofa, watching without

comprehension, heavily sedated, Margaret Sheridan.

INT. WINDOWLESS ROOM - DAY

Emily talking agitatedly to a MAN IN A SUIT who is writing

something and not paying attention to her. We only see her

face at first.

She snatches the pen from his hand.

He looks at her, quietly takes back his pen.

Continues writing. There's a KNOCK on the door. A BAILIFF

pokes his head in.

Emily stands up from the chair she's been sitting in and we

see she's wearing an ORANGE LA COUNTY JAIL JUMPSUIT. The

man, her public defender, instructs her as they exit:

EXT. PRIVATE WOODED ROAD - DAY

Lucy walks a private road through sunlit forest with a kind

RETIRED COUPLE. Temporary guardians who've taken her in for

the weekend.

The woman puts her arm around her as they walk on.

Lucy smiles, shy, innocent, quietly taking in the scenery.

INT. FOSTER PLACEMENT SERVICES - NIGHT

Two women cross the office after hours, a pudgy middle-aged

FOSTER CARE SUPERVISOR and a younger CASEWORKER who is

leaving for the day. The office reminds you of Child

Services, another tier of the child welfare system.

The Caseworker exits. The Supervisor comes down the row of

cubicles dropping files on desks. Alone. After hours. A

thankless profession.

It lands on some random desk, amid the usual backlog of mail

and paperwork. A case file like all the others. The name

typed on the label:

SHERIDAN, LUCY.

