FADE IN:

EXT. ELM STREET - DAY

MEAGAN is coming down the sidewalk in slow motion.

Her dress and long hair blow slightly in the breeze.

The SOUND of CHILDREN CHANTING increases.

On "you" there is a RUMBLE and a flash -- like quick

lightning only evil.  (Choice flashes from Nightmare on

Elm Street 1 & 2).

Meagan turns at 1665.  A beautiful white, two-story

house, thick with lush green foliage.  Several beautiful

children, all dressed in bright white, play hopscotch

and jumprope on the front walk.

Close on a little girl's foot coming down on the number

"4" drawn on concrete.

Another RUMBLE and flash -- longer, LOUDER.  (Flashes

from Nightmare 3 & 4).

Meagan continues up the walk, the wind is blowing a

little harder now.  The trees are brown, the leaves

peeling away.

Moving up the walk, closer to the house... only now

it's a little darker, needs some paint.  On the front

porch, a LITTLE GIRL rides a tricycle.

RUMBLE.  Flash.  (Nightmare 5 and Freddy's Dead).

The "ix" echoes away, becoming the faint "Ka ka ka"

we all recognize as Jason's theme.  Meagan turns to

find that the children in the yard have vanished. It's

nighttime.

The trees are dead, the grass is gone, and the horizon

stretches off into utter nothingness.  Meagan turns

back to the little girl.

But the little girl has gone.  Only the tricycle

remains.  It circles once, the front door CREAKS open,

and the empty tricycle peddles inside.  Meagan follows

it into the...

INT. HOUSE ON ELM STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan enters the house slowly, watching as the tri-

cycle rides off down a creepy hallway and disappears.

Then the front door blows shut behind Meagan.  She

tries to open it -- locked.

Then faint VOICES cause Meagan to pause.  She listens,

trying to make out the low murmur.  Then a little girl's

GIGGLE.  Meagan recognizes it as her sister's.

Meagan moves up the stairs, going down the hall...

following the voices (we recognize the other voice as

belonging to Freddy).  Meagan enters a door at the

end of the hallway, moving into...

INT. LIZZY'S ROOM (NIGHTMARE) - CONTINOUS ACTION

On the floor, near her bed, is Meagan's thirteen year

old sister -- LIZZY.  Slow for her age, Lizzy sits and

draws with crayons.

Meagan looks at the drawings -- childlike renderings

of Freddy.

Meagan slowly gets to her knees and takes a peek under

Lizzy's bed.

Suddenly, a doll-sized Freddy scurries out from under

the bed, flashing past Meagan's face and running out

the door.  Meagan yelps and touches her face -- five

tiny slash marks on her cheek.  Lizzy clucks.

Meagan looks out the door, incredulous.

But when Meagan looks back, Lizzy is gone.

Lizzy echoes away as Meagan finds herself standing

in the...

INT. NIGHTMARE CHAPEL - CONTINUOUS ACTION

The tiny Freddy dashes from the pews and jumps into

a casket at the altar, slamming the lid shut.  Meagan

goes to the casket and carefully opens the lid.  Inside

-- a rotting corpse with worms and maggots crawling

all over it.  Meagan screams and slams the lid back

down.

The casket starts to move -- THUMP! THUMP! THUMP!

Then it stops.  Tentatively, Meagan opens the lid again.

Inside -- FREDDY KRUEGER.  He grabs her arm.

Meagan screams.  Freddy leaps out of the casket in a

tuxedo, crooning:

Meagan looks down -- she's wearing a wedding dress,

spattered with blood.  Behind her, the chapel has

filled with dozens of DEAD PEOPLE in various stages

of decay.  A SATANIC PRIEST appears in the pulpit and

asks:

Meagan looks to her left -- four girls hold bouquets,

dressed in body bags.

Freddy opens his tuxedo jacket to reveal several

trapped souls struggling to get out of his chest.

>From the back of the chapel, a voice:

Meagan turns.  It's her boyfriend -- JESSE.  He stands

in the chapel doorway, backlit by bright light, arms

outstretched.

Meagan runs to Jesse and grabs him, their arms

encircling one another.  She looks up into Jesse's

eyes... only it isn't Jesse.

It's Jason.

Meagan screams as Jason raises his machete, bringing

it down between her eyes...

INT. MEAGAN'S ROOM - MORNING

Meagan opens an eye as her alarm clock BUZZES... she

was dreaming.  She gets up quickly and crosses to her

dresser.  She looks into the mirror, at the tiny cuts

on her cheek, and clucks.  Then she exits, going into...

INT. LIZZY'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan opens the door to her sister's room, breathing

a sigh of relief when she sees Lizzy curled up in bed

with a doll.  Meagan smiles and starts to exit when

she notices something not quite right about the doll.

She moves closer and pulls Lizzy's arm away to reveal

a hideous little Freddy doll.  Meagan gasps.

Suddenly, the doll opens it's eyes and sneers:

The Freddy doll flashes it's tiny glove of knives,

thrusting them deep into Meagan's chest.

INT. MEAGAN'S ROOM - MORNING (for real)

Meagan sits up suddenly in bed, clutching her chest.

She looks down and sees that there is nothing there.

Meagan sighs and falls back in her bed -- just a bad

dream.

ZZZZZZT! -- her alarm clock BUZZES.  Meagan sits up

with a start again.  Her fright turns to rage as she

pounds the alarm clock into submission.  Meagan climbs

out of bed...

INT. LIZZY'S ROOM - MORNING

Meagan enters and finds Lizzy still asleep, clutching

her Raggedy Ann doll.  She gently pries the doll away,

tossing it disdainfully away.  Meagan picks up a small

glass unicorn and playfully prances it around on Lizzy's

head.

Lizzy's eyes flutter open.  She smiles at her sister,

then frowns.

Lizzy hugs Meagan.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

CLOSE ON a small television set on the kitchen table.

A flashy graphic flashes across the screen: AM NEWS

SPECIAL REPORT -- COPS V.S. THE CULT -- DAY 13.  A

NEWS REPORTER stands in front a police blockade. In

the background, dozens of POLICE and S.W.A.T. MEN

surround a small run-down, two-story house... Freddy's

house.

The reporter babbles on as Meagan enters the kitchen

where MEAGAN'S MOM is sitting watching the TV, gulping

down orange juice.  Across from mom is MEAGAN'S DAD,

who is having coffee, reading the paper.  Meagan pours

herself a cup and sits.

Meagan's mom grunts, transfixed on the news.  Dad

looks over his paper long enough to smile and say,

just a little too cheerfully:

Meagan looks over at her mother, then back at her

father, mouthing the words "How's mom?", when suddenly

Meagan's mom bellows:

Meagan turns back to her dad but he has ducked back

into his paper.  Meagan sighs and sips her coffee.

ANGLE ON TV -- a police booking photo of FRED KRUEGER.

Meagan's younger sister -- LIZZY -- comes down to

breakfast.  The microwave DINGS and Meagan's mom

pulls out three Pop Tarts, dealing them out to her

family like playing cards.  Lizzy picks up her Pop

Tart, whining.

Meagan snickers.

Dad looks over at mom, who shoots him an angry look.

Dad takes a bite of his Pop Tart, sinking back behind

the paper.

ANGLE ON TV --

A horn TOOTS outside.

Meagan collects her books and her sister. This is

dad's cue to look at his watch and say:

Meagan kisses her dad as she and Lizzy hurry out the

door.  Meagan's dad looks over at his wife, who says:

EXT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - MORNING - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan and Lizzy climb into JESSE's car.

Meagan playfully smacks him as Jesse's car ROARS off.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Meagan's dad hesitates at the front door, clutching

his keys and briefcase as he musters the courage to

say something.

Mom reaches over and switches off the TV. Dad smiles

slightly and exits. Mom waits until the door closes,

then takes a bottle of vodka and pours a goodly bit

into her orange juice.  She takes a deep drink and

switches the set back on.

CLOSE ON TV as the news reporter interviews CAPTAIN

RENTON MURDOCH -- State Trooper.

EXT. "FREDDY" CULT COMPOUND - MOMENTS LATER

Murdoch gets into the command car, sitting down next

to the S.W.A.T. COMMANDER sitting behind the wheel.

INT. CULT COMPOUND - SAME TIME

Meanwhile, inside the house... the cult's sleazy LAWYER

is sitting on a crate in the middle of a dark room.

He is surrounded by CULTISTS -- heavily-armed teenage

punks in red and olive sweaters and Fedoras ala Freddy.

They stare out at him through sunglasses with red

flashing diodes that barely hide their burned and

disfigured faces.

The lawyer shifts uncomfortably on the crate as he

takes a deep snort from inside his briefcase held

neatly on his lap.  Then he lifts his head, wiping

his nose nervously as he speaks:

EXT. CULT COMPOUND - MOMENTS LATER

The lawyer's disembodied head comes sailing out of

an upstairs window, smacking into the command car's

windshield with a loud SPLAT!

Murdoch curses and leaps out of the car, charging

the house as he BLASTS away with two nickel-plated

.45s.  Suddenly GUNFIRE erupts from every window in

the house, BULLET HITS RIDDLING the cops cars,

SMASHING windows and emergency lights.

The S.W.A.T. TEAM follows Murdoch through the hail

of GUNFIRE as he kicks open the front door.

INT. CULT COMPOUND - NEXT INSTANT

WHACK! -- the door flies open and Murdoch and the

S.W.A.T. team move in.  The windows have been covered

with foil, the walls have been painted black with

cult slogans written in red, making the whole house

black as pitch.  The S.W.A.T. team puts on their

night vision goggles and starts moving through the

house.

P.O.V. THROUGH NIGHT VISION GOGGLES as the S.W.A.T.

team goes through the house SHOOTING cultists (ala

the computer game DOOM).  Then a blinding flash of

light and a S.W.A.T. guy goes down -- shot in the

face.

Several of the cultists lead the attacking S.W.A.T.

team deeper into the house.  As one of the S.W.A.T.

guys follows his foot trips a wire.  A trap door

opens in the floor and the S.W.A.T. guy falls into

a pit, waist deep in water.  Suddenly, the water

starts churning and the guy starts screaming -- it's

a tank of piranhas!  Two other S.W.A.T. guys grab

his arms and pull him out.  Too late -- his legs

have been shredded to the bone.

Another S.W.A.T. guy kicks in a door to a room and

steps in, FIRING his machine gun.  A large scythe

swings down and severs both his arms at the elbows.

His arms fall to the floor, still FIRING the machine

gun.

The cultists race into a room, grabbing handrailing

bolted over head.  They swing like monkeys across

the ceiling just as a S.W.A.T. guy charges into the

room behind them.

CLOSE ON S.W.A.T. GUY'S BOOTS as he steps onto a floor

covered with upturned nails.  Several nails puncture

both boots, the points coming up through the laces.

The S.W.A.T. guy screams and another S.W.A.T. guy

barrels into the room to see what is wrong.  He knocks

the first guy face-first into the floor o' nails.

Meanwhile, Murdoch is having a blast -- literally.

He kicks open the door to a room and guns down three

cultists as they try to escape out a window.  As

the last body pitches to the floor, Murdoch yells:

Murdoch exits, laughing to himself.

The running GUNBATTLE continues as the cultists

retreat to the back of the house, throwing molotov

cocktails.  Soon the first floor is ablaze. A S.W.A.T.

guy screams as he is consumed by FIRE.  The cultists

thunder down a back staircase to the...

INT. THE BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS ACTION

The cultists uncover a secret passageway under the

house and most escape through the underground tunnel

just before the S.W.A.T. team comes BLASTING into

the basement.  As the last of the remaining cultists

is capped off, a faint voice cries for help.  The

S.W.A.T. commander raises up his hand.

He pulls off his night vision goggles and shines his

flashlight into the basement.  Through the dense

smoke he sees a little girl in a white dress is tied

to a chair sitting on a crate.  Underneath the chair

-- several sticks of dynamite wired to a timer. CLOSE

ON THE TIMER: 30... 29... 28...

The S.W.A.T. commander rushes to the girl, kneeling

down to look at the bomb.  Then he takes a Leatherman

tool from his vest and starts to work on the bomb's

timer.

Murdoch comes down the stairs.  He goes to the secret

passageway and says:

Murdoch looks at the little girl and shrugs.

The S.W.A.T. commander wipes his brow and leans in

to work on the bomb again.  CLOSE ON TIMER: 24...

23... 22...

The basement ceiling is now fully ABLAZE and chunks

of BURNING DEBRIS fall around the skittish S.W.A.T.

team.  Murdoch looks at his watch in a bored fashion.

The S.W.A.T. commander studies the wires for another

second, then glances back at the timer... 15... 14...

13...

The S.W.A.T. commander whips out his Spyderco knife

and cuts the little girl loose.  He carries her out

in his arms as he shouts to his men:

The S.W.A.T. team exits the basement with Murdoch

bringing up the rear.

EXT. CULT COMPOUND - NEXT INSTANT

The S.W.A.T. commander staggers out with the little

girl, followed closely with the remainder of his men

and finally Murdoch.  The commander throws himself to

the ground, covering the little girl with his body as

-- BA-BOOM!!! -- the Elm Street house EXPLODES!

Murdoch stands as debris rains down around him.  He

mutters:

As the dust settles, the S.W.A.T. commander rolls off

the little girl and starts checking her for injury.

Suddenly, the little girl jumps onto the S.W.A.T.

commander, flashing a glove of knives.  She hisses:

With a quick swing, the little girl slashes the

commander's face.  She dives back for a plunge to

his throat when Murdoch walks up and kicks her off.

He puts his boot on her, holding her down as he

takes aim on her head with his pistol -- execution

style.

The S.W.A.T. commander grabs Murdoch's arm just in

time.  Several cops rush in and grab the girl,

dragging her off, kicking and screaming.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

CLOSE ON GRAFFITI written across lockers -- FREDDY

LIVES!

We move from this to a small classroom window. Through

it we see Meagan sitting in economics class.  The

instructor -- MISS KREPPS -- is lecturing.

It's hot.  Several of the kids fan themselves,

struggling to stay awake while others have already

passed out on their desks.  Meagan's eyes are heavy.

She looks over at Jesse, pretending to follow along

in his book, fast asleep.  The antique oscillating

fan on Miss Krepps' desk CLICKS loudly as she drones

on:

Meagan starts to drift off, when...

Meagan gets up and goes to the podium amidst the

snickers of some of her classmates.  Miss Krepps

snaps her fingers for quiet.

The fan on Miss Krepps' desk starts to CLICK louder,

BLOWING harder.  Meagan raises an eyebrow but continues

with her report.

CLOSE ON THE FAN as it changes... getting creepier...

turning into a Freddy-fan.  BLOWING harder... CLICKING

louder.

Meagan repeats the last few sentences, raising her

voice to be heard over the fan.  Then pages of her

report start to blow away.  She grabs at them as the

WIND increases.

A bottle of glue stowed in the podium overturns and

spills to the floor at Meagan's feet.  She bends over

to pick it up, when her skirt blows up.  She presses

it down but the WIND is too great and the skirt

billows up, revealing her underwear.  The class roars

with laughter.

But Meagan isn't reading her report anymore, she's

busy trying to push down her skirt when -- RIP! --

the WIND blows her skirt off.  Her classmates fall

over themselves, laughing.  RIP! -- Meagan's blouse

blows away.  She tries to hide behind the podium when

that too is swept off.

Meagan clutches at her bra and panties as they start

to drift away -- thread by thread.  She is almost

naked.  Meagan looks up at her classmates, red in the

face.

Her classmates point and laugh -- only now they are

all a bunch of old rotten skeletons.  And up front,

in the center where Miss Krepps sat... is Freddy! He

wears a beanie with a propeller, points and laughs:

Meagan screams, clutching at the last few tiny strands

of cloth that cover her body.  She calls to Jesse,

pleading:

But Jesse just sits at his desk -- dead.  He reaches

up and slowly lowers a hockey mask over his pale,

expressionless face.

Freddy pulls out an over-sized camera with a gargantuan

flashgun attached.  The flash bulb is the size of a

beach ball and has a nuclear warning etched in the

front.  Freddy sizes Meagan up in the viewfinder and

sneers:

PHOOMPH!!! -- the flash bulb goes off with an atomic

light.  Meagan screams as her skeleton is blown back

against the blackboard -- vaporized!

Meagan waking up in her seat suddenly.  The classroom

as normal.  Miss Krepps is standing over her, asking:

Meagan looks around, bewildered and confused.

Meagan realizes that she was dreaming and pulls

herself together.

Meagan stands up and faints.

INT. SCHOOL NURSE'S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER

MEAGAN'S P.O.V as the SCHOOL NURSE comes into FOCUS,

standing over her.

Meagan is laying on a couch, a cloth over her head.

Meagan stares at the nurse for a moment.

The nurse slaps a wet towel over her face.

INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Jesse is waiting for Meagan as she emerges from the

nurse's office, muttering under her breath:

Meagan rolls her eyes in frustration.

INT. LIBRARY - AFTERNOON

Meagan pours through a big psychology book.  Across

the table, Jesse peers into another psychology book.

Jesse looks up suddenly.

Over Jesse's shoulder we see he has a copy of ROAD &

TRACK tucked inside his psychology book.

Meagan tries to hide her smile.

Meagan laughs.  Somebody shushes her.

A dark mood falls over Meagan as her mind winds back.

EXT. SPECIAL SCHOOL - AFTERNOON

Lizzy sits on the steps of her school, clutching

her books and Raggedy Ann doll... waiting. Behind

her, wearing a protective helmet, another learning

disabled kid - LEONARD - taunts her.

Lizzy gets to her feet and starts walking.  Leonard

calls after her:

Lizzy keeps going, marching across the deserted school

yard.  Leonard turns to go inside the school when he

bumps into a passing CULTIST.  The cultist pushes him

down as he follows after Lizzy.

Lizzy walks briskly along when she gets the feeling

she's being followed.  She turns and sees a cultist

standing behind a tree several dozen yards behind her.

Lizzy turns away and quickens her pace but when she

glances back, the figure is still standing... but

closer.

Scared, Lizzy turns and runs, dropping her books as

she flees down the sidewalk.  As she comes to the

street, a big black hearse suddenly pulls up in front

of her, the door swinging open wide.  Burned arms

reach out to grab Lizzy.  She screams.

The cultists grab Lizzy, pulling her into the car as

it roars off down the street.

CLOSE ON RAGGEDY ANN -- laying in the gutter.

EXT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Jesse's car pulls up to a sea of police cars parked

in front of Meagan's house.  Meagan gets out of the

car and rushes inside.

INT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION

COPS are everywhere as Meagan bursts into the house,

calling for her family.  Jesse enters behind her when

Meagan's dad comes up, asking:

Meagan's mother bellows from the living room where

she is talking to a policeman taking notes.  She is

drunk and has been crying.

Meagan's mom breaks down sobbing.

Meagan's dad puts his arm around Meagan and tries to

comfort her.

Meagan looks over and sees Murdoch talking to his

men when a voice from upstairs calls down:

INT. LIZZY'S ROOM - NEXT SECOND

As Murdoch enters, he spots Lizzy's night table and

the small glass menagerie there.  Murdoch picks up

the unicorn and admires it when a TROOPER draws his

attention to the floor next to the bed.

Laying there are several childlike drawings of Freddy,

including one that has "Freddy Lives" scrawled across

the top.

Meagan enters and sees the drawings.  She gasps.

Murdoch stares at the drawings, his jaw muscles

tightening.  He clenches his fist, pulverizing the

little unicorn.

Murdoch drops the broken pieces of the unicorn on

the table as he exits the room, brushing past Meagan.

INT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Meagan's dad follows Murdoch to the door, asking:

Murdoch and his men say "good-bye" and quickly exit.

EXT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

As the last of the cops drive away, Meagan pulls

Jesse out of the house.

They exit to Jesse's car.

INT. STORMIE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

Meagan's high-strung best friend -- STORMIE -- is

blurting out at a mile-a-minute:

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - SOME YEARS AGO - NIGHT

Jesse narrates a short, fuzzy, silent flashback as

younger-looking Renton Murdoch is BLASTING away at

Jason in panic.

Jason cleaves Murdoch's head with a machete.  Murdoch

staggers back, raising his pistol.

Murdoch FIRES, the bullet SMACKING Jason in the eye.

Thick blood runs down the hockey mask as Murdoch's

body hits the ground.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM-

Murdoch lays in a bed, his head covered in bandages.

Tubes and hoses running everywhere to all sorts of

medical contraptions.

In a series of quick cuts we move in close on Murdoch's

eyes -- dark and menacing -- staring out at us.

INT. STORMIE'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

EXT. SPRINGWOOD MENTAL CENTER - AFTERNOON

Jesse, Meagan, and Stormie pull past the large sign

and into the parking lot.  As Jesse puts the car in

park, Meagan turns to him and says:

Jesse grudgingly agrees.  Meagan kisses Jesse on the

cheek.  Stormie sticks her tongue out at him, then

turns as she and Meagan walk toward the main entrance.

INT. SPRINGWOOD MENTAL CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

The CRIES of the insane echo through the building as

the SECURITY GUARD escorts Meagan and Stormie down a

row of cell doors.  He stops at one, tapping lightly

on the glass.

The guard exits.  Meagan and Stormie peer through the

thick window -- Erwin's padded cell appears vacant.

They exchange anxious looks, then Meagan presses a

little closer to the glass.

SPLAT! -- ERWIN suddenly presses his horribly burned

face to the glass as he screams:

Meagan and Stormie jump back, startled.  Then they

quickly bare their arms, turning them over for Erwin's

inspection.

Erwin flops the arms of his straight jacket, gesturing

to the inside of his cell -- empty except for a small

mattress.

There is a moment as the girls take this in, then:

Erwin thinks about this for a second, then:

Meagan and Stormie exchange looks.

Stormie grabs Meagan by the arm and starts to pull

her away.

But Meagan stays put and asks Erwin:

Erwin presses his palm against the glass.  Meagan

thinks a moment, then puts her hand against the glass

over his.

EXT. STREET CORNER - AFTERNOON - A SHORT TIME LATER

Meagan, Jesse, and Stormie are standing in front of

a pay phone, arguing.

Jesse sighs and steps into the phone booth.  After a

moment's hesitation, Jesse steps out and immediately

both girls blurt out ten reasons why he should make

the call.  Jesse calls for quiet and as soon as both

girls shut up, he says:

Meagan fishes out a quarter and hands it to him.  Jesse

re-enters the booth.

ANGLE IN PHONE BOOTH as Jesse dials a number.

INT. SPRINGWOOD MENTAL CENTER - NEXT INSTANT

The security guard picks up his phone as it RINGS.

In the background, we hear Meagan and Stormie whisper

something to Jesse.

CLICK! -- The guard's eyes grow wide.

EXT. SPRINGWOOD MENTAL CENTER - AFTERNOON -SECONDS LATER

The peaceful quiet of the asylum is shattered by a

fire ALARM.  Soon all the INMATES start filing out

into the yard, loosely herded by the GUARDS.  Erwin

files out with the others, still wearing his straight

jacket.

Erwin looks over at the parking lot -- Jesse's car

flashes it's lights.  Erwin starts to casually wander

off towards the fence between himself and freedom

when the SECURITY GUARD spots him and says:

Erwin ignores him, still moving towards the fence.

Erwin breaks into a run.  The guard takes off after

him.

In the car, Jesse, Meagan, and Stormie watch as the

guard closes the distance.

With grim determination, Jesse starts his car.

Jesse's car tears out of the parking lot, racing for

the fence.  With a loud, metallic CHING, Jesse's car

drives into the fence, knocking that section down.

Erwin dances over the downed chain-link, diving into

an open window.  Then, with a SQUEAL of tires and the

RENDING of metal, Jesse's car backs out of the fence,

does a 180, and PEELS off.

ANGLE INSIDE CAR as Stormie and Meagan help Erwin out

of his straight jacket.  Once freed, Erwin extends his

hand to Jesse.

Jesse looks at Erwin's outstretched hand -- the

fingertips are all heavily bandaged.

The security guard runs up to the fence, huffing and

puffing, watching as Jesse's car disappears down the

street.  Then he spots something in the fence and

plucks it out...

Jesse's front license plate.

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - DUSK

CLOSE ON LIZZY, screaming and crying as the cultists

close in around her.  They rip her sleeve off and

inject her with a syringe.  After a moment, Lizzy

starts to settle down... falling asleep...

The cultists lift Lizzy up over their heads and carry

her towards the big boiler.  Inside -- a raging INFERNO.

LIZZY'S DREAM STATE P.O.V. -- as the cultists reach

the boiler, it splits open in the middle like a giant

gate.  The two halves swing open wide to reveal...

INT. HELL - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS ACTION

A narrow rocky ledge extends out to a mausoleum atop

a tall, narrow mountain.  On either side of the ledge

is a sheer drop to the bleak landscape below -- rivers

of hot molten lava stretching out for miles, filled

with LOST SOULS DROWNING and BURNING.  Hundreds upon

hundreds of voices are SCREAMING and MOANING -- a

terrible chorus of the damned.

The cultists carry Lizzy across the rocky ledge to

the mausoleum.  The outside of this ancient structure

is engraved with weird murals depicting the evils of

mankind.  In the center -- a large iron gate that

swings open as the cultists near.

The cultists roll Lizzy over in their arms, holding

her tight as they push her face forward into the

mirror.  The glass gives way like mercury, Lizzy's

face disappearing into the mirror.

ANGLE ON THE OTHER SIDE (UNDERWATER) -- Lizzy's

face stares out into utter blackness.  Then, some-

thing large and evil looking swims up out of the

darkness.  Clawed hands reach out and grab Lizzy by

the sides of the face as the huge, monstrous head

moves forward -- evil lips parting -- tongue slithering

out.

The evil thing gives Lizzy a big, wet French kiss,

locking it's lips over hers.  Several slippery some-

things slither into her mouth.  Lizzy struggles, but

the big evil thing is way too strong.  Finally, it

releases her and the cultists pull her back out.

The cultists carry Lizzy out of Hell and back into

the...

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Horribly burned hands slap Lizzy back from her semi-

conscious state.  Her eyes grow wide with fear again

as she opens her mouth to scream.  Suddenly, she

doubles over and vomits up into a tupperware a

cultist thrusts under her.

Three evil-looking eels slither forth from Lizzy's

mouth -- the Dream Demons.

EXT. OLD POWER PLANT - DUSK

Several shadows flee into the night as Jesse's car

pulls up next to a run-down building.

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Erwin leads Meagan, Jesse and Stormie down into the

old, burnt out boiler room.  They work their way

towards the back, to a large table and a collection

of sofas and easy chair scattered about.  Erwin

starts sniffing around, pointing out several used

syringes laying scattered about the floor.

Meagan spots Lizzy's shirt sleeve on the floor.

Erwin goes to a boiler, bends down and reaches way

up underneath.  After fishing around for a moment,

he draws out a well-worn Mutant Ninja Turtles lunch

box.  Inside -- a vile of liquid, several syringes,

and several pairs of cult shades.

Meagan thinks about this for a moment, then nods her

approval.

Jesse jerks a thumb toward Erwin.

Erwin hands Jesse an old rusty revolver.

Erwin hands Meagan and Stormie each a pair of the

sunglasses with flashing red diodes in each lens.

Stormie puts hers on immediately and says:

All of this went over Meagan's head.  Stormie shrugs:

Meagan and Stormie sit down in easy chairs, rolling

up their sleeves.  Erwin comes over and reclines the

chairs, giving each girl an injection.  Then Erwin

takes a seat next to Meagan and injects himself.  He

lets the syringe drop to the floor as he lowers his

glasses.

Meagan clasps hands with Erwin and Stormie.  Jesse

watches with skepticism and concern.  Erwin ushers

a final warning:

Then all three FALL THROUGH their chairs into...

INT. DREAMSPACE - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan, Stormie, and Erwin falling through dreamspace

(fantastic digital effect tunnel), still holding hands.

The girls scream as Erwin smiles and yells:

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - SAME TIME

Jesse watches over Meagan, Stormie, and Erwin -- all

asleep in their chairs.

INT. NIGHTMARE BOILER ROOM - NEXT MOMENT

Meagan, Stormie, and Erwin fall into a crazy night-

mare boiler room (visually reminiscent of the Freddy

pictures) with rusty catwalks, huge out-of-proportion

fixtures above and a sea of boiling water below.  As

they get to their feet, Meagan hears Lizzy's voice:

Meagan enters a shaft, following the sound when

suddenly, the shaft closes up behind her.  Stormie

and Erwin try to find the opening again but can't.

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - SAME TIME

Jesse is standing in front of an old, full length

mirror, practicing drawing the pistol.  He pulls it

and pretends to fire, blowing imaginary smoke from

the muzzle as he says:

INT. NIGHTMARE BOILER ROOM - NEXT MOMENT

Stormie and Erwin make their way through the creepy

boiler room, calling for Meagan.  A strange shadow

stalks them -- it's Freddy.  He drops down in front

of Erwin and Stormie.

Freddy opens up his shirt to reveal a chest full of

lost souls.  In the center -- Meagan.  Stormie charges

Freddy, throwing her arms around him as she screams

to Erwin:

But Erwin is paralyzed with fear.

Suddenly, Stormie's arms have become huge lobster

claws.  She jerks away from Freddy, but too late --

Stormie starts to change into a giant lobster-woman!

Freddy smiles -- now he's wearing a chef's hat and

apron.

Freddy knocks the lobster-woman over the side.  She

falls into the boiling water far below -- KER-SPLASH!

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - NEXT INSTANT

Stormie wakes with a start, yelling:

Jesse spins, aiming the pistol.  But nothing is there.

INT. NIGHTMARE BOILER ROOM - SAME TIME

Freddy turns toward Erwin.

Erwin stares wide-eyed, frozen to the spot.

Suddenly, Erwin reaches into his sleeve and pulls

out a pin.  Freddy gawks -- surprised.  Erwin pricks

his finger.

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - NEXT INSTANT

Erwin wakes with a start.  Stormie smacks him.

Jesse looks over to where Meagan is still sleeping.

INT. ELM STREET - DAY (DREAM)

Meagan comes down the sidewalk, still following

Lizzy's voice...

It leads her to her house.  Meagan enters the front

door.

INT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan sees her father is sitting at the kitchen

table, reading his paper.  The headline reads:

FREDDY LIVES!

He looks up and quietly shushes her.

And with that, Meagan's dad disappears.  Only the

newspaper remains.  Then Meagan hears Lizzy's VOICE

again... upstairs.

As she comes down the upstairs hallway, Meagan passes

her mother's room.  The door is open a crack.  Meagan

looks in and sees her mother putting an empty bottle

to her lips.  The bottle sucks the life out of Meagan's

mom, who shrivels up into an ugly ol' prune face.

Meagan starts to help her mother when Lizzy's cry

for help draws her to...

INT. LIZZY'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan enters.  She sees Lizzy on her bed, under the

covers.

Meagan pulls back the covers to reveal that Lizzy is

pregnant, her naked, swollen stomach protruding from

her night gown.  Something inside is trying to push

it's way out.

Lizzy screams.  Meagan moves to help her sister when

Freddy's glove BURSTS OUT of Lizzy's stomach, stabbing

Meagan in the chest.

INT. ABANDONED BOILER ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan wakes up suddenly.  She looks up at Stormie,

Erwin, and Jesse standing over her.

They help Meagan to her feet.

Stormie raises her shirt up to show Meagan she is

unharmed.  Erwin sneaks a look and Stormie smacks him.

Meagan gets to her feet, asking:

Jesse's last three words strike Meagan like a thunder-

bolt and she stammers out a name:

Erwin rolls his eyes around -- uncertain.

Meagan embraces Stormie, then all three turn to Jesse.

He looks them over and sighs:

Meagan hugs Jesse.  Erwin tries to hug Stormie but

she pushes him away.

EXT. SPRINGWOOD AUTO YARD - NIGHT

In his shack, listening to a small portable radio,

is the NIGHT WATCHMAN.  His small DOG suddenly perks

up her ears and GROWLS low.  The watchman turns down

the radio.

Then the old man hears it, too... A low RUMBLE. Moving

closer.

The night watchman steps out of his shack and squints

into the darkness when a line of several hearses

approaches.  The lead hearse pulls up to the shack and

the driver's window rolls down.

A Freddy cultist sticks his face out of the window

and says:

BANG! -- the cultist SHOOTS the old man right through

the head.  The night watchman falls to the ground with

a lifeless THUD.  The little dog starts BARKING

ferociously when another SHOT silences her as well.

Another cultist leaps out of the hearse and runs to

the gate, cutting the chain with a pair of bolt

cutters.  He swings the gate open and the funeral

procession proceeds inside.

INT. SPRINGWOOD AUTO YARD - A SHORT TIME LATER

The cultists are standing around a small pit that two

cultists are carefully excavating in the center of the

wrecking yard.  Inside the pit, the uncovered remains

of Freddy Krueger -- nothing more than a pile of

charred bones.

Lizzy is brought forward, held by a couple cultists,

and injected with dream dope as the needle is passed

around.  She no longer struggles, accepting her fate

with droopy eyes.

LIZZY'S DREAM DOPE P.O.V. -- as she watches one of

the cultists reach down and put a rusty funnel into

Freddy's broken jawbone.  Her vision gets blurry...

more surreal as another cult member steps forward

with the tupperware.  He pours the dream demons into

the funnel.

CLOSE ON FREDDY'S REMAINS as the dream demons swim

around inside his skull.  His bones start to bleed...

blood becoming arteries and veins... vessels becoming

muscle... muscle growing scarred flesh...

There is a FLASH from the pit.  Then suddenly, Freddy

Krueger -- as you've known him, as you've loved him --

leaps out of the pit and cries:

Lizzy rolls her eyes up and faints.  The cultists

FIRE their weapons into the air and cheer as the

building-high stacks of wrecked cars surrounding

them HONK their HORNS and FLASH their LIGHTS.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Headlights as Jesse's car zooms past a sign that

reads: CRYSTAL LAKE - 13 MILES.

EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

Jesse pulls the car into an ol' run-down service

station.

Jesse HONKS the horn and yells:

Suddenly, a CRAZY OL' COOT appears on the opposite

side with a shotgun.  Everyone in the car jumps.

The old man gives the occupants of the car a going

over with his one good eye, hesitating a moment over

Erwin, who scrunches down in the back seat, hiding

under a baseball cap.

Everyone in the car takes a sharp breath -- cold

busted!  Then they start saying "No! No!" and shaking

their heads innocently in a big performance that

wouldn't fool a stick.

The ol' coot scans the foursome again closely as he

acquiesces.

Jesse is already standing on the gas, leaving the

ol' coot standing in a cloud of smoke and dust.

EXT. ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY - NIGHT

Headlights skew across a rusty iron gateway -- ETERNAL

PEACE CEMETERY -- illuminating a sign: TRESPASSERS

WILL BE SHOT!

Meagan, Jesse, Stormie, and Erwin enter the shadowy

cemetery carrying lamps with shovels over their

shoulders.  As they search through the cemetery,

Meagan asks:

Erwin shines his light on Jason's grave.

ANGLE ON TOMBSTONE -- JASON VOORHEES. Born:1945.

Died:1953.

Beneath the death date, crudely scratched into the

stone: 1981, 1982, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1988, etc.

Jesse and Erwin start digging.

ELLIPSIS -- cemetery statues watching them dig.

Stormie and Meagan take their turn.  Then... Jesse

hits something solid.

Hands brush away the remaining dirt, exposing the

coffin below.  Jesse takes a sharp breath and then

jams a crowbar under the lid -- forcing it open.

The casket lid cracks open a bit when -- SSSSSS! --

noxious gas escapes.  Everyone covers their mouth

and nose, suppressing the urge to hurl.

Then roaches... hundreds of roaches.

Meagan and Stormie run off, screaming, batting at

their hair and clothing.  Jesse rolls around on

the ground.  Erwin sighs, plucks a roach off his

shirt, and calmly eats it.

EXT. ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY - A SHORT TIME LATER

Meagan and Stormie stand just outside the grave,

holding the light and a can of bug spray.  Their

hair is up, covered in plastic shower caps.  Duct

tape around the cuffs of their pants.  They aren't

taking anymore chances with bugs.

Jesse and Erwin open the casket.  Everyone recoils

at the stench.  Then they shine their lights inside

-- nothing but rotting chunks and a broken hockey

mask.

The kids putting several plastic trash bags full of

Jason into the trunk of Jesse's car and slamming

the lid closed.

Everyone piles into the car, exhausted.

In the back, Erwin picks his nose, unaware that

Stormie is watching him, her mouth gaping in horror.

Erwin becomes aware of Stormie's sickened scrutiny

and pulls out his finger, presenting it to Stormie.

Stormie slaps his hand away.

Jesse looks over at Meagan, curled up in a ball

beside him.  She purrs:

This news sobers everyone up immediately.

Meagan leads the none-too-enthusiastic group in another

chorus of "Row Your Boat" as Jesse's car roars off into

the night.

EXT. LONELY ROAD - NIGHT

Meagan is leaning up against the door, murmuring softly

to herself as she drifts off to sleep:

In the back seat, Erwin is nuzzled between Stormie's

breasts, sucking his thumb.  Both are fast asleep.

Jesse stares at the road ahead, his own eyelids

drooping.  The car starts to weave.

ANGLE OUT WINDSHIELD -- we flash past Freddy holding

a cardboard sign by the side of the road: WILL KILL

FOR FOOD.

Jesse shakes his head -- nah!  He tries to concentrate

on the road, his eyelids falling once more.

Jesse's car zooms past a billboard.  Behind the bill-

board -- a highway patrol car, a radar gun sticking

out of the driver's window.

CLOSE ON RADAR GUN as Jesse's car passes in the back-

ground, the red digits cascading up.

Freddy, now dressed as a highway patrolman, sits behind

the wheel.  The radar gun's display is reflected in

his mirrored shades.  It reads: KILL THEM.

Freddy starts the car and pulls out, but what comes

out from behind the billboard isn't a patrol car --

it's Freddy's NIGHTMAREMOBILE -- big chrome pipes

belching HELLFIRE.

ANGLE IN JESSE'S REARVIEW MIRROR as Jesse's eyelids

close and his head nods forward, revealing the night-

maremobile closing from behind fast.

The nightmaremobile runs up to the back of Jesse's

car just an inch from the bumper.  Freddy moves one

of the dozen of levers on the dash.

CLOSE ON FREDDY'S HOOD ORNAMENT -- a small version

of Freddy's glove.  It extends out towards the back

of Jesse's car, one of the tiny knives inserting into

the trunk lock and turning with a slight CLICK. The

trunk lid opens.

ANGLE INSIDE TRUNK -- the plastic bags with Jason's

remains are moving!  Freddy works another level and

the tiny glove slits each bag.  The various pieces

of Jason (hands, boots, intestines, etc.) crawl out

of the bag.

Freddy laughs as the tiny hand closes the trunk.

The nightmaremobile pulls out from behind Jesse's

car, BANGING into the rear quarter panel. WHAM! --

all four occupants of the car are jolted awake,

startled.  Meagan looks out her window and sees the

nightmaremobile as it closes in again.

WHAM!  SPARKS fly.  Everyone screams.  Freddy laughs

as he falls back for another shot.  Meagan sees the

dozens of lost souls trapped in the back of the night-

maremobile, staring out at her through the back window.

A small yellow sign reads:  LOST SOULS ON BOARD.

Jesse fights to keep the car on the road when suddenly,

the pieces of Jason ATTACK, BURSTING from behind the

back seat.  One hand crawls up the back of the front

seat, leaping onto Jesse's throat.  Jason's intestines

EXPLODE out of the backseat, SLITHERING and SNAKING

their way around Stormie and Erwin.  One of Jason's

boots wiggles under the seat, making it's way towards

the gas peddle.  The other boot is content to lay

under the back window and kick Erwin in the head.

As Meagan fights to pull Jason's hand of Jesse's face,

she looks down and sees Jason's other hand between

her legs.  Meagan screams.

Jason's boot stomps on the gas and Jesse's car lurches

forward with the acceleration. The nightmaremobile

SLAMS into the side of Jesse's car again, causing it

to swerve violently from side to side.

Inside the nightmaremobile, Freddy pulls another lever.

CLOSE ON THE NIGHTMAREMOBILE FENDER as a panel opens

up and a circular sawblade arm extends out, CUTTING

into Jesse's car with a flurry of SPARKS.  Inside,

Meagan screams as the saw blade just misses her leg,

CUTTING forward towards...

CLOSE ON JESSE'S FRONT TIRE as the saw blade CUTS into

it.  The tire BLOWS and Jesse's car lurches off the

road, veering into a tree line.

CRASH! -- Jesse's car plows fender-first into a tree,

the HORN stuck on, BLARING.

Freddy laughs and kicks the nightmaremobile into

overdrive, ROARING OFF and disappearing with an

EXPLOSION of FIRE that wisps away in an instant.

In the distance -- an old farmhouse.  The lights go

on inside.

The passenger door opens and Meagan falls out onto the

ground, bleeding from a slight scalp wound.  A rear

door opens and Stormie and Erwin spill out, locked in

embrace and not seriously hurt.  Meagan staggers

around to the driver's side and opens the door.  Jesse

is laying unconscious against the steering wheel.

Meagan pulls him off the wheel and the HORN stops.

Jesse is splattered with blood and his leg is a mess.

Through the farmhouse window, Erwin and Stormie see

the farmer on the phone.

Meagan cradles Jesse's head in her hands, crying:

Erwin goes to the trunk and opens it.  Inside -- the

garbage bags with Jason's remains still inside --

untouched.  Erwin goes to Meagan and says:

Erwin grabs the trash bags out of the trunk and says:

Erwin takes off, disappearing with Jason's remains

into the night as SIRENS WAIL in the distance --

growing close.

INT. HOSPITAL - JESSE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jesse is laying in a hospital bed, his leg in a

special tent.  Meagan and Stormie watch from the

doorway as a DOCTOR checks Jesse's vitals.  As he

finishes, Meagan asks:

Meagan sits down next to Jesse, taking his hand.

Stormie turns to the doctor.

The doctor exits.

Meagan nods weakly.  Stormie exits.  Meagan lays her

head on Jesse's hand.

INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY - MOMENTS LATER

Stormie is getting several bags of munchies out of

the vending machine when she turns and sees Murdoch

at the information booth, flashing photos of Jesse

and Erwin.

Stormie dashes for the staircase.

INT. HOSPITAL - JESSE'S ROOM - SAME TIME

Jesse and Meagan have fallen asleep.  Jesse's heart

monitor BEEPS...

On the wall, an x-ray viewer flickers to life.  Freddy

peeks out from behind the other side.  He snickers and

ducks back down.

Suddenly, Freddy's hand reaches up from inside the bed

and grabs Jesse, pulling him down into the mattress.

Meagan wakes and sees this, screaming as Jesse grabs

onto the curtain.

CLOSE ON CURTAIN ROD as the curtain pulls free of

the rings.

Jesse disappears into the bed, his screams echoing

away.

Meagan looks under the bed -- nothing.  She rises up

again, watching as Jesse's iv and electrode wires

are pulled down after him.  Meagan grabs a handful

of tubes and wire and tries to pull Jesse back.  But

the pull is too strong and Meagan goes into the

mattress.

INT. OLD WEST SALOON (NIGHTMARE) - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan falls to the floor of a dusty ol' saloon.  As

she gets to her feet she sees Jesse's iv tubes running

along the floor and out the door.  Meagan follows

them to the saloon door, where she stops and looks

out into...

EXT. OLD WEST STREET (NIGHTMARE) - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Standing in the middle of the street is Jesse, dressed

in a cowboy sheriff's outfit complete with hat, badge,

and gunbelt.

Meagan calls to him from the saloon door.

But Jesse can't hear her.  He's too busy shaking with

fear... staring at something coming down the street.

It's Freddy.  Dressed in a Black Bart cowboy outfit.

Trembling with fear, Jesse fumbles for his pistol.

He pulls it out and FIRES.  Freddy laughs.  Jesse

FIRES again.  Freddy just laughs.  Jesse FIRES again

and again and again and Freddy just laughs and laughs

and laughs.  From the saloon, Meagan screams:

Freddy looks over at her, annoyed.

INT. HOSPITAL - JESSE'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

The SOUND of Jesse's heart monitor BEEPING erratically

wakes Meagan with a start.  She tries to wake Jesse.

INT. OLD WEST STREET (NIGHTMARE) - SAME TIME

Jesse keeps FIRING at Freddy... until his gun CLICKS

empty.  Freddy smiles and pulls out the biggest Goddamn

gun you ever saw and says:

Freddy FIRES!

INT. HOSPITAL - JESSE'S ROOM - NEXT INSTANT

Jesse's stomach EXPLODES with BLOOD -- splattering

Meagan.  Jesse's heart monitor BEEPS continuously --

flat line.  Jesse is dead.

A NURSE shows up to answer the alarm.  She sees

Meagan standing over Jesse's body, covered in blood,

and screams.

Stormie enters the room a half-second later and

gasps.

Stormie reaches in and grabs Meagan, pulling her out

of the room.

INT. HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Stormie drags a shell-shocked Meagan down the hall,

the screams of the nurse fading into the distance.

Just then, Stormie spots Murdoch and his men getting

off the elevator.  They hear the nurse's screams and

come running towards Jesse's room.  Stormie pulls

Meagan behind the nurse's station just as Murdoch

and company go thundering past.

Then a VOICE on the P.A. says:

Stormie and Meagan exchange worrisome looks.  The

announcement repeats itself again.  Then again.

Stormie can't stand it anymore -- she stands up

and picks up the white paging phone.

Murdoch and his men come running past the nurse's

station again.  Stormie turns her back to them but

Murdoch goes back to the nurse's station, asking:

Stormie gestures to the elevators.

Murdoch nods a quick thanks and takes off with his

men right behind.  Stormie exhales a giant sigh of

relief as the HOSPITAL OPERATOR says:

Stormie hangs up and grabs Meagan, running for the

staircase.

EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

Stormie drags Meagan out of the hospital just as

Erwin pulls up in an old battered pick-up truck.

He throws open the door and Stormie pushes Meagan

inside, climbing in after her and asking:

Stormie closes the door and the pick-up truck ROARS

out of the parking lot.

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - NIGHT

The pick-up truck's headlights skew across a weather-

worn sign, peppered with bullet holes: CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

Erwin drives the truck through the deserted camp,

past the cabins, down towards the lake.  He stops a

short distance away from the pier and the three of

them climb out.

Meagan is still in shock, letting Stormie guide her

as Erwin leads them down the pier to a small diving

platform tied up to the end.

Erwin jumps down on the diving platform.  In the center,

a large form is covered by a tarp.  Erwin helps Stormie

down onto the platform, leaving Meagan standing on the

pier.  She looks out over the lake -- eyes vacant.

Erwin moves close to Stormie and, gesturing to Meagan,

asks:

Stormie gestures to the tarp.

ANGLE ON JASON laying spread eagle on the diving

platform, cocooned in chicken wire with dozens of

coiled leads trailing off into the water.  Erwin has

done a good job of sewing Jason back together with

barbed wire and fishing line.  His arms and legs have

been reinforced with steel braces and even Jason's

mask has been repaired, stitched down the middle with

bailing wire.  Jason looks nineties... and butch.

Stormie bends down and takes a peek under the mask

and quickly replaces it.

Stormie thinks about this for a second, then:

Meagan speaks for the first time:

EXT. MORGUE - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

A sign reads: CITY MORGUE.  Through the front window

a GUARD can be seen sitting at the reception desk.

Erwin, Stormie, and Meagan watch him from the pick-up,

parked a safe distance away.

Erwin and Stormie exchange looks, then shrug -- why

not?

A few moments later, the guard looks up as the pick-

up swerves wildly into the parking lot.  He gets up

and goes to the glass door, peering out.

ANGLE THROUGH GLASS DOOR as Stormie and Erwin start

making out -- hot and heavy.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

Meagan BREAKS a small window near the ceiling. She

crawls onto the top of the cabinet and then drops

to the floor.  She shines her flashlight around the

dark laboratory, illuminating anatomy charts, jars

full of organs, etc.

Crossing to the lockers, Meagan tentatively opens

one of the drawers and shines her light inside --

ug!  Wrong guy.  She opens the next drawer -- ick!

Even worse.

Meagan opens a third drawer -- Jesse.  Her lip starts

to quiver as she caresses his face.

EXT. MORGUE - PARKING LOT - SAME TIME

At the glass door, the guard is watching the action

in the parking lot, his breath fogging the window.

He wipes the glass clean with his sleeve to get a

better look.

Inside the truck, Stormie and Erwin wrestle around.

The windows are starting to steam up.

INT. MORGUE - SAME TIME

Meagan pulls on a labcoat and puts on a pair of rubber

gloves.  Then she opens a drawer full of shiny instru-

ments (saws, rib cutters, etc.) and selects a large

knife.

Meagan stands over Jesse's body.  She pulls back the

sheet, exposing his chest.  Meagan raises the knife

far above her head.

Meagan plunges the knife into Jesse's chest with a

sickening THWACK!

EXT. MORGUE - PARKING LOT - SAME TIME

The windows of the pick-up are now badly fogged,

obscuring the guard's view.  He licks his lips,

deciding to investigate closer.  The guard unlocks

the front door and starts toward Stormie and Erwin.

They spot him coming and break their embrace.  In

another moment, the pick-up is PEELING out of the

parking lot.  The guard watches the truck go, shakes

his head, and goes back inside to start his rounds.

Up the street, parked with the lights off in the night

shade of a large tree, Stormie and Erwin watch as the

guard starts down the glass enclosed hallway towards

the morgue.

Erwin panics for a moment, then HONKS the HORN.

INT. MORGUE - NEXT MOMENT

Meagan is trying to pull Jesse's heart out of his

chest but it just won't come, some vein or muscle

fiber keeps pulling it back.  She jumps at the HORN,

then starts pulling harder.

In the hallway just outside, the guard hears the HORN

and stops.  He starts back for the front, when suddenly

the HORN stops.

Meagan hacks at the last bits of stringy goo that cling

to Jesse's heart.  As the last strand goes, Meagan

tumbles backwards to the floor with a loud THUD.

The guard hears that and turns back towards the morgue,

drawing his gun.  He tip-toes to the door and carefully

unlocks it, leaving his keys in the lock.  Taking a

two-handed Weaver stance, the guard raises his foot

and kicks the door.

WHACK! -- the door flies open and the guard leaps

inside like Marshall Dillon, snapping on the lights.

He gasps, eyes going wide as he scans the room.  One

of the drawers is open... the stiff's chest has got

a huge hole in it... blood spattered everywhere...

a bunch of bloody footprints leading over to the

cabinet...

Suddenly, the guard sees Meagan half out the window

and cries:

Meagan rolls out of the window just as the guard FIRES.

The unbroken section of the window SHATTERS.  The guard

curses and races for the...

EXT. MORGUE - SECONDS LATER

The guard comes running out just in time to see Meagan

close the passenger door and the truck ROAR away.  He

shrinks, dejected -- no way to catch them now.  The

guard heads back inside to report this mess and finds

that the door has closed and locked behind him.

EXT. ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY - NIGHT

The crazy ol' coot is leading Murdoch through the

cemetery.

The ol' coot shines his light down into Jason's empty

grave.

The S.W.A.T. commander comes up to Murdoch.

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - NIGHT

Meagan sits on the end of the pier, watching silently

as Erwin sews Jesse's heart into Jason's chest using

dental floss.  Stormie comes up behind her and puts

her jacket around Meagan's shoulders, sits down beside

her and says:

Erwin finishes sewing up Jason and climbs back onto

the pier, cutting the diving platform free.  He kicks

it off and it floats out into the lake, drifting free.

Then Erwin herds the girls down the shore, leading

them over to where a short trench has been dug leading

from the water's edge.

In the bottom of the trench -- an uncovered power

cable.

Erwin picks up a nearby bucket of water and sets it

at the head of the trench.

Erwin kicks the bucket over.  The water washes down

the trench, over the cable, and -- POW! Z-Z-Z-ZAP!

A huge SPARK HITS EXPLODES.  Then the lake begins to

glow and the water begins to churn.  Erwin and the

girls jump back as ELECTRICITY ARCS from the lake,

engulfing the diving platform.

The ARCS of ELECTRICITY leap from the chicken wire

onto Jason's body, his massive frame convulsing.

CLOSE ON HOCKEY MASK as we PUSH IN -- the electricity

spirals down into the eye hole like water running

down a drain.

CLOSE ON JASON'S EYE as it opens!  We dive into the

eye and take a fantastic dream/time travel to...

EXT. VOORHEES CABIN - 1953 - DAY

CLOSE ON MASK (1950's version of a hockey mask)

reflected in the water.  A young hand reaches up and

pulls off the mask, revealing the disfigured boy

beneath.  This is JASON -- AGE 9.

JASON'S FATHER comes to the doorway of their run-

down cabin in dirty longjohns, holding a bottle of

rye. He bellows:

Jason jumps at his father's voice, hesitates only

slightly, then runs toward him, stopping abruptly

several paces away.

Jason stands, looking at his bare feet. His father

smacks him upside the head, shoving him towards the

woodshed.

Jason's pace slows as he enters the dark shed -- he

knows what's coming next.

Jason slowly complies as his father loosens his belt.

Suddenly, JASON'S MOTHER is just outside the doorway,

calling:

Jason gives his father a sideways glance, then scurries

towards his mother.

Jason's mother gives him a mason jar stuffed with

dollars and change.

Jason holds his ground for a second, unsure whom to

obey, when his mother shoos him away.

Jason takes off up the road.  His father sneers:

Jason's mother pulls a knife from her apron.

Jason's mother charges at her husband, shoving him

back into the shed with the knife.  Jason looks back.

Through the open window he sees his mother's arm

coming down repeatedly with the knife, his father's

arms flailing helplessly.  Then both disappear from

view.  After a moment his mother appears in the door-

way, spattered with blood.  She smiles and waves to

him, calling:

Jason turns and runs to...

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - 1953 - DAY

Wearing his mask, Jason walks through the entrance

to the camp with his jar of money.

In the office, the HEAD COUNSELOR takes his money

and shakes his hand.

The other KIDS dance around Jason, taunting him...

laughing at him... pointing and teasing... Jason

breaks away, running towards the pier.

Jason sits at the end of the pier, looking at his own

reflection.  He removes the mask and watches as the

distortions in the water make his face look normal.

Someone comes up behind Jason slowly.  Jason isn't

aware of their presence until a shadowy reflection

appears behind his own.  Jason turns to see who when

he is suddenly pushed into the lake.

Jason splashes to the surface, sputtering, trying to

stay afloat.  A hand pushes his head back under the

water.

JASON'S UNDERWATER P.O.V. -- a distorted image of

whoever is holding him under.

Jason thrusts out his arms, fighting to get back to

the surface... fighting just to see who is killing

him before he dies.

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - NIGHT

Jason comes alive, thrashing around on the diving dock,

the electricity all over him like a spider web. On

shore, Erwin and the girls gasp.

Meagan and Stormie bounce, excitedly.  But something

is wrong.  Jason thrashes around on the dock, unable

to break the crisscross of high voltage chicken wire.

But all Erwin can do is scratch his head.  Meagan

rushes to the shore line and screams out over the lake:

Jason clenches his meaty fists and SLAMS them down

against the diving dock. SMASHING it to bits.  Water

rushes over him and -- ZZZZT! KA-POW!

A power transformer on shore EXPLODES, causing Meagan

and her friends to cringe.  When they look back, the

electrical light show fades away, leaving nothing but

smoke and floating debris.  Meagan and Stormie turn to

Erwin, who shrugs shyly and says:

Meagan and Stormie begin a verbal barrage that would

shrink any man to pus... much less Erwin.  He cowers

between them, offering quick excuses and humble

apologies.

All three are so wrapped up in laying blame that they

never notice Jason's shadowy figure as it rises from

the lake.

Then they do see him... scream and run.  Jason charges

after the kids in his familiar "unstoppable killer"

gait.

Erwin ducks inside the tool shed as Meagan and Stormie

dash past.  He closes the door behind him and squirms

out a tiny window just as Jason kicks open the door

and steps inside.  Erwin races around to the front

and closes the door.  He fastens the latch and padlock,

then calls to the girls:

Just then, the SOUND of a CHAINSAW as the blade RIPS

through the tool shed door.  Erwin screams like a

girl and runs away.

INT. MAIN CABIN - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan and Stormie run into the main room.  Stormie

spots a phone and goes to it, dialing frantically.

Just then, Erwin bursts into the cabin, slamming

the door shut behind him.

Stormie and Meagan look out the window -- sure enough,

Jason is storming towards them, holding the chainsaw.

Erwin screams and runs for the closet, hiding inside.

Stormie clucks:

Just then, the chainsaw RIPS through the front door.

Meagan and Stormie scream and follow Erwin into the

closet, closing themselves inside.

They cower in the closet, listening... for a long

moment... nothing but the sound of their heavy

breathing.

Then, with the RIPPING of WOOD, Jason chainsaws the

closet door -- knocking it to the floor.  Erwin draws

out his pin and starts stabbing himself in the finger.

Jason charges forward, when Meagan suddenly stands

up in front of him and yells:

To everyone's shock... Jason does.

Jason cocks his massive head like a perplexed pup.

Meagan takes off the necklace that Jesse gave her and

opens the locket.  She shows Jason the photo of Jesse

inside.  Jason drops the chainsaw and takes the locket

in his humongous hands, gently touching the photo of

Jesse with a meaty finger.

Meagan sticks out her hand to shake.  Jason stares at

it, looks back at the locket, then to Meagan. Finally,

he reaches out his huge hand for Meagan's when...

Brilliant, blinding white light blazes through the

windows, freezing everyone to the spot.  Anxious to

get out of the closet with Jason, Erwin crawls across

the floor and peeks out over the window sill.

ANGLE OUT WINDOW -- a dozen police cars shine their

lights towards the cabin, two dozen COPS aim their

weapons.  In the middle of this impressive show of

force is Murdoch.  He raises a bullhorn to his lips.

Meagan turns to Jason, shoving him back into the

closet.

Stormie helps Meagan stuff Jason into the closet,

closing the door.  Then they quickly smooth down

their hair and clothes, moving towards the door.

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - NEXT SECOND

Meagan, Stormie, and Erwin come out with their hands

raised high above their heads.  As they walk towards

the police cars, several of the S.W.A.T. team moves

in and arrests them.  As they are handcuffed and

searched, Murdoch goes on the bullhorn again:

Suddenly, one of the cops points towards the cabin

and shouts:

All heads turn towards the cabin, where Jason's

massive frame is filling the doorway.

All the cops level their weapons at Jason when Murdoch

suddenly steps forward, gesturing for everyone to get

behind him.

Murdoch takes a few steps towards the cabin and sneers:

Jason raises the chainsaw -- he remembers Murdoch too.

Murdoch goes for his gun, but instead of bringing out

a pistol, he holds a laser designator.  Murdoch fires.

A big red dot appears on Jason's chest.  Jason looks

down at it like it was a harmless bug.  He looks back

up at Murdoch, who raises a radio to his lips and says:

EXT. 60,000 FEET ABOVE CRYSTAL LAKE - NEXT SECOND

A military jet flying above drops it's payload -- a

laser-guided napalm bomb.

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - SAME TIME

A slight WHISTLE sound grows in the skies above Camp

Crystal Lake.  Jason looks up.

SMART BOMB P.O.V. as it drops down on Jason -- homing

in on the laser dot on his chest.

BA-BOOM! -- Camp Crystal Lake EXPLODES in flames.

All the cops take cover as FIRE RAINS DOWN on them.

Only Murdoch stands his ground, his arms outstretched

as he embraces the terrible sight.

A cop behind him says:

Murdoch looks up -- sure enough, his Smokey Bear hat

is burning above the brim.

Meagan watches as Camp Crystal Lake is consume in

flames, her last hope of saving Lizzy -- gone.  Then

a cop shoves her into a police car with Stormie.

Erwin is put into another car and the three exchange

worrisome looks through the windows just before the

cars pull away.

As the cops start to pull out, one of them notices

something moving amidst the flames -- a large BURNING

form, walking towards the lake.  As it stumbles out

onto the pier, the cop turns to his partner and says:

But just then, the form falls through the BURNING

pier, SPLASHING into the water below.  The partner

looks, sees nothing, and shrugs.

He shrugs it off and exits after his partner.

Murdoch, his hat still smoking a little, surveys the

sight one last time before climbing into his patrol

car and driving away.

INT. POLICE STATION - CELLBLOCK - NIGHT

A cell door SLAMS in front of Stormie's face. A cell

door SLAMS in front of Meagan's face.  Both girls are

behind bars, separated by a cement wall.  The hefty

female DEPUTY in charge of the cellblock goes back to

her desk.

Both girls stand in their cells next to eachother,

watching as the deputy goes back to her desk and

begins to devour three combo-burritos.

Meagan leans up against the wall, sliding down to

the floor in defeat.

Stormie plops down on her cot.

Just then, Deputy Miller steps in front of Meagan's

cell, unlocking it.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

Deputy Miller brings Meagan out of the cellblock,

where her mom and dad are waiting with Captain Murdoch.

Meagan's mom rushes up and hugs Meagan.

Meagan stands handcuffed, her hair mussed, her clothes

bloody and soiled.

INT. CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME

The deputy is so busy munching down on her burritos

that she doesn't notice the strange shadow that

passes behind her.

The shadow moves down the cellblock, accompanied by

a slight SCRAPING.  Freddy's glove materializes,

raking the knives along the metal cross bars.  Freddy

stops at Stormie's cell, looking inside.

Stormie is fast asleep.

Freddy walks into Stormie's cell, passing right through

the bars.  Suddenly, Stormie wakes and, seeing Freddy,

jumps to her feet and screams.

But the deputy at the end of the cellblock doesn't

respond, finishing off the rest of the burrito and

licking her meaty fingers clean.  Freddy puts his

forefinger knife to his lips and shushes Stormie,

pointing to her cot.  Stormie looks over and sees her-

self asleep.

She looks up at Freddy, who smiles and says:

Freddy flashes the glove of knives.

INT. POLICE STATION - NEXT MOMENT

INT. CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME

Freddy taunts Stormie as the circle around in the cell

by slicing off his fingers, squirting green slime.

Stormie winces a little but keeps her distance and cool.

Freddy swings the glove but Stormie ducks, keeping her

defensive stance.

Freddy juts out his chin, gesturing for Stormie to

take a punch.  Stormie throws a right and pops Freddy

right in the nose.

Stormie smiles but that soon fades as she realizes her

fist is stuck in Freddy's nose.  Freddy takes in a

breath and Stormie's arm is sucked up past the elbow.

She screams.

Freddy takes a deep breath and snorts Stormie right

up his nose, her screams turning into a faint BUZZ.

Freddy smiles.

INT. FREDDY'S NOSTRIL CAVERN - NEXT SECOND

Now the size of a flea, Stormie is clinging to one

of hundreds of pointed tree trunks jutting out from

the circular walls -- Freddy's nose hairs.  Stuck in

those humongous hairs are clumps of icky gunk --

boogers.

Sitting next to Stormie, a particularly large and

rotund booger clump opens its eyes and says (in the

distorted voice of Harry Manfredini):

Stormie screams, backing up into the "trees", trying

to put distance between herself and Boogerman.

Boogerman licks his fat, nasty lips with a slimy green

tongue -- he does kinda look like Jabba.  Stormie

screams again.

INT. POLICE STATION - SAME TIME

Meagan is getting more and more agitated.

Meagan's parents stare at their daughter with confused,

frightened looks.

A couple of DEPUTIES grab Meagan.  She throws them off

and they grab her again, roughly.  Meagan's parents

watch in pain and horror as the deputies drag their

daughter back to her cell, kicking and screaming.

Meagan's mom and dad gasp, recoiling with horror.

Meagan's raving grows faint as she disappears into

the cellblock.  Murdoch pulls Meagan's dad aside.

INT. STORMIE'S CELL & NOSTRIL CAVERN - SAME TIME

Freddy starts to dig in his nose with his forefinger

knife.

A giant knife blade comes charging up the nostril

cavern, sending Stormie into hysterics.

Boogerman starts lumbering up into the back of the

nostril cavern.  Stormie watches the massive knife

blade as it comes right for her, then at the last

possible second she starts climbing after Boogerman.

She pushes past the disgusting blob of goo, racing

ahead.

INSERT -- Freddy pushes the knife way far back into

his head.

The giant knife spears Boogerman in the back, running

him through and spilling his "Boogerman" guts out his

front.  Stormie gives a little squeal as Boogerman is

pulled out, kicking and screaming.

Freddy withdraws the knife from his nose, peering

closely at the tiny Boogerman impaled on the end. He

twists his mouth in utter disdain and flicks Booger-

man across the cell.

Boogerman screams as he flies across vast space, smack-

ing into the far wall with a giant SPLAT! Boogerman

flattens outwards into a thin pancake of Boogerman goo,

his nasty head still alive in the center.

Freddy reaches through the bars of the cell, his arm

extending out in a grotesque fashion all the way to

the deputy's desk.  He feels around on the table until

he touches the pepper shaker, drawing it back into

Stormie's cell.

Freddy sprinkles a small amount of pepper into his

right palm and breathes it in deeply -- the specks

of pepper becoming rocks that pelt Stormie as she

clings to life deep inside the nostril.

Freddy's face begins to distort, his nose wrinkling

up -- the beginnings of a sneeze.

Micro-Stormie comes blasting out of Freddy's nose

with globules of snot.  She flies across the massive

cell, headed directly for the splattered Boogerman,

screaming her head off.

Boogerman sees Stormie racing towards him and he

screams too.

INT. POLICE STATION - CELLBLOCK - NEXT INSTANT

As the deputy brings Meagan back to her cell they

hear a loud SPLAT!

The deputy pushes Meagan back as she moves forward

cautiously, glancing around the wall into Stormie's

cell... then promptly puking combo burrito.  Meagan

runs up and looks.  The wall to Stormie's cell is

splattered with blood and bits.

Meagan falls to her knees, sobbing as more DEPUTIES

come running into the cellblock, answering the

deputy's puke-choked scream.

We BOOM OUT of this chaos and go to...

EXT. LONELY ROAD - NIGHT

An ambulance races along the road with it's emergency

lights flashing.  In back Erwin lays strapped to a

gurney.  Up front sit a DRIVER and an ATTENDANT.  They

chat disparagingly about the freak in the back, when

suddenly a large form appears in the road just ahead.

The driver slams on the brakes and the wheels lock up

with a terrible SQUEAL.

WHUMP! -- the ambulance plows into the form, knocking

it some fifty feet down the road.  The driver and the

attendant stare out of the cracked windshield in shock.

Finally, the driver turns to the attendant and says:

The driver gets out and goes to the form laying in the

road.  He bends down to examine the charred, mammoth

carcass when a fist flies up, smacking the driver in

the face.  He falls to the ground, unconscious.

The corpse sits up in the glare from the headlights --

it's Jason!  Burnt and blackened but ready for action!

He starts towards the ambulance.

The attendant gets out and pulls his service revolver,

emptying into Jason's chest.  Jason recoils only

slightly as BULLET HITS BURST his coveralls, then he

grabs the attendant by the head as he snaps the empty

pistol in panic.  Jason slams the attendant's face

into the side of the ambulance.

In the back of the ambulance, a terror-stricken Erwin

watches as a face shaped dent appears in the wall with

a sickening WRENCHING of METAL and FLESH.  Then...

silence.

RIP! -- Jason pulls off the back door of the ambulance

and climbs inside, the shocks bottoming out under his

weight.  He reaches out for Erwin, who closes his

eyes... waiting for the inevitable.

Then... nothing.

After a second, Erwin opens an eye.  Jason is standing

over him, hand outstretched.  In his big, burnt palm

-- Meagan's necklace.  Erwin looks from the necklace

to Jason.  Jason thrusts out his hand impatiently.

Again with the thrusting.

Jason shakes his palm at Erwin yet a third time.

Jason reaches over and yanks out the gurney straps.

Erwin exits out the back with Jason following close

behind.  Erwin climbs in behind the wheel, saying:

Jason pushes Erwin aside so roughly that he slams into

the passenger side door.

As Jason climbs into the driver's seat, a CHIME goes

off as a female COMPUTER VOICE in a pleasant tone says:

Erwin fastens his.  Jason watches him and pulls the

safety belt across his massive chest -- it won't reach.

Jason pulls harder, ripping the belt out of the bolts.

The CHIME goes crazy.

Jason SMASHES the dashboard with his fist, silencing

the voice and chime.  He turns suddenly to Erwin as if

to say, "Yeah?! What about it?"  Erwin shrugs nervously:

With tires SQUEALING, burning rubber and smoke, the

ambulance roars away into the early morning.

EXT. POLICE STATION - CELLBLOCK - DAWN

Meagan stares through the bars of her cell at the sun

as it peeks out over the horizon.  The deputy gets up

to leave for the six a.m. shift change.  As she goes,

she switches on the cellblock TV.

ANGLE ON TV -- An early morning religious program

is on.

A shot of the REVEREND LOVEJOY at the podium in his

studio, giving kind words of encouragement.

The good reverend goes on about it always being darkest

before the dawn, have faith and your prayers will be

answered, etc.  Meagan turns and watches the sunrise

-- glorious.  Tears stream down her cheeks.  Then a

commercial comes on:

EXT. RELIGIOUS TV STATION - MORNING

In his booth at the main gate, the GATE GUARD watches

as a procession of hearses approaches.  As the first

hearse reaches the gate, the guard steps out and says:

A cultist sticks his head out the window and says:

The cultist produces a pistol -- BANG!

INT. STUDIO - MOMENTS LATER

The REVEREND LOVEJOY is at his podium, his WIFE at the

organ, waiting for the commercial break to be over.

The FLOOR MANAGER counts down -- three... two... one...

BAM! -- the cultists burst into the studio.  The CAMERA

OPERATOR and FLOOR MANAGER are killed.  The Reverend

Lovejoy and his WIFE, at the organ, are taken hostage.

INT. POLICE STATION - CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME

ANGLE ON TV as the cultists take the reverend and his

wife hostage.  Meagan watches, suddenly perplexed.

INT. STUDIO - NEXT SECOND

The cultists break into the control room, killing the

DIRECTOR and STAFF.  One slips into the sound booth,

garroting the RELIGIOUS ANNOUNCER with a piece of wire.

Another SMASHES the control board, killing the signal.

All the feed monitors go snowy.

INT. CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME

ANGLE ON TV as the picture goes to static.  Just then,

the deputy appears in front of Meagan's cell.

Meagan looks back at the TV as she slowly starts to

get undressed.

INT. POLICE STATION - SHOWERS - MOMENTS LATER

The deputy ushers Meagan into the showers.  Inside,

a naked group of mean, nasty, ugly JAIL HOUSE BITCHES

are showering, washing hairy pits, flabby tattooed

skin, and greasy hair.  They eye Meagan like the

dessert bar at Denny's as she crosses to the opposite

side, sneaking into a corner.  Meagan turns on the

shower and drops the towel -- the bitches whistle and

catcall.

Just then, the deputy gets called away, leaving Meagan

to the mercy of the bitches.  The head bitch slides

over to Meagan and says:

The head bitch grabs at Meagan, who resists.  But this

bitch is big and tough and holds Meagan by the wrists

as she tries to kiss her.  The other bitches laugh.

Meagan scratches the head bitch's face.  She backs

off screaming, wiping blood from her face.  Then she

spits, reaches down (below the frame line) and

produces a shiv.

The head bitch moves in.  Meagan takes a cautious

step back, bumping into tile -- nowhere to go.  She

holds up her hands.

The head bitch stops, curious.

Meagan comes up to the woman, raising her arms.  In a

flash, the head bitch has the shiv to Meagan's jugular

-- a warning.  Meagan carefully puts her arm around

the bitch and kisses her full on the mouth.  After a

long, uncomfortable moment, they break.  The head

bitch smiles.

The other bitches smile as the head bitch slips her

arm around Meagan's waist and pulls her tight.

The head bitch holds Meagan tight as she sobs,

smoothing her hair.  The other bitches share a look

of concern as one asks:

The head bitch suddenly springs back as if Meagan

were Satan himself.  She runs for the other bitches

but they aren't having anything to do with her.  All

the bitches race for the exit.

The deputy comes to the shower room doorway and

shouts:

WHAM! -- the bitches run her over, stripping the keys

from her belt.  They unlock the cellblock door and go

running into the police station, screaming butt-naked.

After the bitches exit, Meagan's hand reaches out and

drags the unconscious deputy into the shower.

INT. POLICE STATION - NEXT SECOND

The bitches come running butt-naked and screaming

through the station.  Several deputies chase after

them, tackle them and try to cuff them.  A brawl

ensues.  Chaos.

Murdoch sits on a desk, reading a report.  He looks

up at the madness and mutters:

INT. POLICE STATION - SHOWERS - MOMENTS LATER

A DEPUTY enters the showers and sees a naked woman

on top of a deputy, their arms locked in a struggle.

The deputy cracks the naked woman in the back of the

head with her baton and she falls to the side,

revealing Meagan -- now dressed in the deputy's

uniform -- laying on the shower floor.

The deputy realizes her mistake too late -- Meagan

sprays her in the face with mace and she sinks to

her knees, screaming and clutching her face.  Meagan

leaps to her feet, grabs a towel to hold over her

face (as if she had a broken nose) and starts to exit.

On her way out, Meagan is passed by several DEPUTIES

charging into the showers to restore order.  She

gestures them on, then slips into an emergency exit

to freedom.

EXT. POLICE STATION - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Meagan exits the station just as a patrol car pulls

up.  She reaches in and grabs the JUNIOR TROOPER,

pulling him out.  Then she slips behind the wheel

and ROARS off.  The junior trooper calls after her:

INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME

The cultists surround Reverend Lovejoy as he nervously

shakes his head, saying:

One of the cultists puts a gun to Mrs. Lovejoy's head.

The reverend swallows and says:

Lizzy is brought forth.  The cultists take her arm

and inject her with the dream dope.  Lizzy's head

lulls around as she chants softly:

The rest of the cultists shoot up -- passing the

needle from one to another.

The good reverend watches this with a lump in his

throat.  He shudders and asks:

Lizzy is almost asleep.

The neon cross behind the podium begins to flicker.

Then with a sharp SNAP of electricity, the cross

falls over, turning upside down.  It hangs there for

an instant then -- POW! -- the cross EXPLODES, catching

the curtains on FIRE.

As the FLAMES consume the curtains, a hole in reality

appears -- a Dreamgate.  Freddy comes springing out,

leaping in front of the podium.  He laughs and turns

to Lizzy, asleep on the bench.

Lizzy looks up and smiles.

INT. POLICE STATION - AFTERNOON

A DEPUTY comes up to Murdoch and says:

INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME

Lizzy and Freddy stand before Reverend Lovejoy.

Freddy holds up a finger -- "Ah-ah".

WHAM! -- Meagan bursts in.

Everyone turns and looks as Meagan comes to the pulpit.

Freddy moves close to Meagan, running a blade over and

around Meagan's neck as she struggles to remain calm.

EXT. RELIGIOUS TV STATION - NIGHT

Outside, the cultists surrounding the outside of the

station watch as dozens of police vehicles swarm to

the fence.  Murdoch and the S.W.A.T. commander get

out of the lead car.  Murdoch picks up his bullhorn

and says:

A CULTIST SNIPER FIRES a shot at Murdoch, the bullet

hit SMASHING the emergency lights atop his car.  The

other cops duck down, but not Murdoch, he turns

calmly to the S.W.A.T. commander and says:

The commander gives the flare gun to Murdoch, adding:

As the commander speaks, Murdoch aims the pistol

carefully and FIRES.  PHOOMPH! -- the flare streaks

to the roof of the TV station, SMACKING the sniper.

He BURSTS into FLAMES and tumbles to the ground,

screaming.  Murdoch hands the flare gun back to the

commander, going back on the bullhorn and saying:

The cultists respond by filling the air with hot lead

-- BULLET HITS RIDDLE the cop cars, SMASHING glass

and PIERCING metal.  The cops FIRE back, BULLET HITS

EXPLODING all along the sides of the TV station.

INT. STUDIO - NEXT MOMENT

The cultists bare Meagan's arm and inject her with

dream dope.  She takes her place at the threshold

beside Freddy.

EXT. RELIGIOUS TV STATION - SAME TIME

As the battle outside between the cultists and the

cops RAGES, Murdoch and the S.W.A.T. commander squat

down behind a fender to reload.

Just then, an ambulance comes ROARING through the

police lines, causing the cops to scurry like mice.

Murdoch squints to see who's driving... it's Jason!

Erwin smiles and waves to Murdoch through the passenger

side window as the ambulance zooms past.

Murdoch curses, drawing his pistol and SHOOTING after

the ambulance.

The other COPS join in a moment later, BULLET HITS

SPARKING off the back of the ambulance as it CRASHES

through the front gate.

Inside the ambulance, Erwin hazards a glance back at

the cops, then he turns to Jason and says:

Erwin looks ahead and screams.

ANGLE THROUGH WINDSHIELD as three cultists stand

directly in front of the speeding ambulance, FIRING

machine guns.  The glass EXPLODES just as Erwin

ducks down.

Two cultists suddenly scatter as Jason rams the

ambulance into the middle one just before plowing

into the side of the station with a CRASH.

Erwin pushes down his airbag just in time to see a

cultist closing in with a gun.  He reaches through the

smashed windshield and grabs the squashed cultist's

machine gun laying on the hood.  Erwin turns, SHOOTS

the cultist just in time.

As Jason kicks open the driver's side door he is

greeted by two cultists SHOOTING at him.  Jason RIPS

OFF the driver's side door and hurls it at the two

punks, knocking them down like bowling pins.  Then

Jason reaches back into the ambulance, pulls out the

Jaws of Life and, with Erwin covering his back, starts

towards the front door.

INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME

The wedding proceeds...

Meagan looks around... no one says anything.  The

reverend clears his throat to continue when...

WHAM! -- the studio door flies open and Jason appears

in the doorway holding the Jaws of Life.

The cultists attack Jason.  Jason grabs the first

one with the Jaws of Life -- folds him in half like

a rag doll.  Another attacks with a machete... bad

idea.  One more cultist down and now Jason owns the

machete.  Jason finishes off the last two cultists

as Erwin barricades the studio door.  The cultists

on the other side start POUNDING.

Jason starts swinging at Freddy with the machete,

slicing through a camera cable.  CLOSE ON CABLE as

it falls to the floor.

Freddy jumps back through the Dreamgate, closing it

behind him.

Erwin runs over to Meagan and Lizzy.  He tries to

wake them but can't.  As Jason lumbers over, Erwin

looks up and says:

Erwin thinks for a moment, then rushes over to a

couple of dead cultists.  He takes their syringes.

Erwin jabs Jason in the neck with two syringes full

of dream dope.

Jason staggers forward, falling into...

INT. NIGHTMARE ARENA - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Jason falls into a boxing arena.  The ropes are

entrails and atop each corner post is mounted a human

head.  The spectators are all DEMONS, MONSTERS, and

the LIVING DEAD.

Jason looks over at his opponent -- dressed in boxing

shorts, shoes, and gloves -- it's Freddy.

Jason raises his arms and finds he too is wearing

boxing gloves.

TED BUNDY steps into the ring.

BANG! -- a bullet hole appears in Ted's forehead,

BLOWING his brains out the back.  He falls over DEAD

and the crowd cheers.  Ted sits up and pulls the wig

back over his shaved head and electric burns as he

calls into the balcony:

ANGLE IN BALCONY -- OSWALD stands, his rifle still

smoking.

Ted Bundy gets to his feet and finishes the intro:

Freddy holds up his arms and the crowd goes wild.

CHEERS and BOOS.

Ted gestures to a large cage suspended over the arena.

Inside -- Meagan and Lizzy clutch eachother.

LAUGHTER from the crowd.

DING! -- the bell sounds.  The first round begins...

Freddy starts towards Jason, cocking his glove for a

blow when -- CH-CHING! -- knife blades jut out of the

glove.  He punches Jason in the stomach and starts

RIPPING him open, rotten guts spilling out.

Jason spots a cocktail waitress walking past with an

axe in her head.  This is BLOODY MARY.  Jason reaches

over the side of the ring and pulls the axe out of

her head.  Bloody Mary whips around, yelling:

Jason swings with the axe -- SH-WACK! -- Jason SLICES

OFF Freddy's arm.  The crowd ROARS.  Freddy looks

down at the open armpit, GUSHING with ROTTEN BLOOD,

and shrugs:

Freddy GROWS a new arm, complete with glove of knives.

Jason throws the axe at Freddy, who ducks it.  The

axe flies into the audience, SMACKING MUSSOLINI square

between the eyes.  He falls back to the floor.  HITLER

turns to EVA BRAUN and says disdainfully:

DING!  The bell sounds.  Freddy and Jason break, going

into their respective corners.  As Jason sits down in

his corner, the HUMAN HEAD mounted on his corner post

starts in:

Up in her cage, Meagan clutches a terrifed Lizzy.

INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME

Erwin watches Jason sleep as the cultists BANG down

the studio door.

INT. NIGHTMARE ARENA - NEXT MOMENT

DING!  The bell sounds again and round two begins.

Freddy and Jason get to their feet and close in on

each other.  Jason swings wide.  Freddy ducks under

Jason's massive fist just as the referee steps in for

a close look.  WHUMP -- Jason knocks the ref's head

OFF, it goes flying up into the balcony.  The crowd

CHEERS.

Jason chases Freddy around the ring, looking for an

opening.  Freddy backpeddles, tripping over the ref's

decapitated body as several HUNGRY ZOMBIES drag him out

of the ring, RIPPING his body apart and DEVOURING it.

Up in their cage, Meagan and Lizzy grimace with

disgust.

Jason reaches down and grabs Freddy, hoisting him

high above his head.  Then Jason body slams Freddy

to the mat.  The crowd CHEERS.

Jason starts jumping up and down on Freddy's back.

Freddy reaches into his shirt and brings out a rusty

can of spinach.  In a grotesque parody of Popeye he

opens the can -- full of nasty worms and maggots --

and gulps it down.  Suddenly, Freddy throws Jason off

his back and stands, huge muscles ballooning on his

chest and arms.  At the end of his right hand -- a

heavy metal boxing glove.

Jason gets to his feet in time to see Freddy cock the

massive glove for a blow.

CHING! -- dozens of spikes spring out of the metal

glove.  Freddy swings, knocking Jason into the ropes.

He bounces off and falls to the mat.  The fans go nuts.

As Jason tries to get up, Freddy swings his right arm

around and around -- the metal boxing glove turning

into a giant mallet.  Jason looks up just in time to

see the mallet coming down.  WHAM! -- Freddy drives

Jason into the mat.  The crowd goes wild.

>From up in her cage, Meagan starts to scream:

ANGLE UNDER THE MAT -- it's a dark, foreboding (under-

water) abyss.  Jason's legs kick, trying to get back

up.  Something slithers up from out of the deep...

wisps of empty blackness clutching at Jason's boots.

Freddy pushes down on Jason's mask, shoving him down.

Jason struggles but keeps slipping.  This looks like

the end of Jason.  Freddy laughs.

JASON'S P.O.V. of Freddy looking down at him, pushing

him down... drowning him...

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE - 1953 - DAY

YOUNG JASON P.O.V. as he is being drowned.  He fights

to get to the surface... to see... who it is...

Young Jason breaks the surface for an instant and

his killer comes into sharp focus.

It's FREDDY (AGE 13).  His Camp Crystal Lake nametag

reads:  Hi! My name is Freddy!  He pushes the young

Jason down again, laughing.

INT. NIGHTMARE ARENA - NEXT INSTANT

Freddy pushes Jason down into the abyss below the

mat... laughing, when Jason snaps.  With a burst

of strength he kicks upward, coming up out of the

mat.  Jason grabs Freddy by the throat and seizes

him up with him.

Jason's momentum carries both of them up to the

ceiling, where they CRASH through to...

INT. STUDIO - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Jason "wakes up", holding Freddy by the throat as

he bangs his head into the lighting gridwork above

the studio.  A light EXPLODES and Freddy cries in

pain... then realizes, he's been brought into the

real world.

Jason throws Freddy to the ground, then raises up a

boot and stomps Freddy's head, SQUASHING it like a

tomato.  The Dream Demons squirt out.

Just then, the cultists BREAK DOWN the studio door.

They raise their weapons to fire, when their heads

suddenly IMPLODE.  They fall screaming to the floor

-- dead.

EXT. RELIGIOUS TV STATION - NIGHT - SAME INSTANT

The remaining cultists SHOOTING it out with the

police suddenly grab their heads, screaming.  Their

heads IMPLODE and they fall to the ground.  Murdoch

sees this and says to the S.W.A.T. commander:

Before the commander can reply, Murdoch is off and

running into the station.

INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME

Meagan and Lizzy come out of their sleep-like trance

and embrace.  Then Meagan looks up at Erwin.

Erwin gestures to Jason, trying to keep his voice low

so as to not hurt the big guy's feelings.

Meagan smiles at Jason.

Jason and Meagan look over to where Freddy's body is

fast decaying... turning back into blackened bones,

scraps of cloth, and a rusting glove of knives.

The Dream Demons squirm around on the studio floor,

then swim into the open end of the camera cable and

disappear.

In the control room, Freddy's face appears on every

monitor, laughing.

Erwin watches as an electrical Freddy-impulse races

from the control room via a long thick cable running

overhead.

Meagan and Jason look up at the Freddy-impulse shoots

past them, going through the ceiling to the...

EXT. RELIGIOUS TV STATION - ROOF - CONTINUOUS ACTION

The satellite dish mounted on the roof.  It begins

to pulsate with an olive and red glow -- getting

ready to beam Freddy.

INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME

Meagan reaches up and grabs the cable, pulling it

hard.

EXT. ROOF - CONTINUOUS ACTION

The roof gives way, tilting the big dish just as it

BLASTS the laughing Freddy-beam into the night sky.

EXT. EARTH'S UPPER ATMOSPHERE - NEXT INSTANT

The Freddy-beam just misses the satellite, ricocheting

off one of the solar panels and sending the satellite

tumbling into deep space.

The deflected Freddy-beam now zooms towards the sun.

Inside the beam -- Freddy sees the sun zooming up

and screams.  His face burns away, leaving a screaming

skull.  That too burns away, leaving the Dream Demons.

One by one they burn up as the beam reaches the sun.

ANGLE ON THE SUN as the beam EXPLODES, causing a

solar prominence.

INT. TV STATION - STUDIO - SAME TIME

The ceiling collapses in on Jason, burying him under

a ton of rubble and the big antenna dish.  A ton of

dust billows up.

Just then, Murdoch bursts in.  He sees Lizzy and

Meagan and takes aim with the shotgun.  Erwin sees

this and jumps in-between them, yelling:

Murdoch FIRES.  The shotgun blast knocks Erwin across

the room, where he lands in a heap.  Meagan and Lizzy

run to his side.

Erwin struggles to breathe -- a large hole in his

chest.  With fading strength, Erwin pulls his pin

out and pricks himself.  Erwin smiles and dies.

Lizzy turns and attacks Murdoch.  He knocks her to

the floor, taking aim on her head with the shotgun

as he says:

In a panic, Meagan snatches up a pistol from a fallen

cultist and FIRES it at Murdoch's head.

PTT-TWANG! -- Murdoch's hat goes flying off with a

SPARK HIT, revealing his bald, hideous head -- a

large open wound with a metal plate underneath.  He

turns towards Meagan with an evil grin on his face.

Murdoch raises the shotgun, taking aim on Meagan.

Murdoch starts to squeeze the trigger when Jason's

hand shoots out of the rubble pile behind him.  Jason

jams his hand down the back of Murdoch's pants and

pulls up his briefs, lifting him a foot off the floor

with a Jason-wedgy as he rises from the rubble.  We

see Murdoch's name written into his shorts.

As Murdoch screams, Jason jerks the shotgun from his

hand and jams it up his ass -- right through the seat

of his pants.  Murdoch's cheeks bulge out as the

muzzle slams into the roof of his mouth.  Jason cocks

the shotgun and...

BOOM! -- Murdoch's head and shoulders EXPLODE from

his torso, leaving his broken spine sticking up out

of shirt.  Bits of Murdoch splatter the floor as his

metal plate comes PINGING down, rolling around and

spinning to a stop like a hubcap.

Jason drops Murdoch (what's left of him) to the

floor just as the S.W.A.T. commander and his men

come charging in.  They see Jason and raise their

guns in panic.

Too late.  The cops let loose with a BARRAGE of GUN-

FIRE.  BULLET HITS EXPLODE on Jason's chest.  Meagan

grabs Lizzy and covers her up as the bullets WHIZZ

past.

More cops hear the SHOOTING and come running.  They

start SHOOTING too.  Soon the doorway to the studio

is crowded with muzzle flash.

More and more BULLET HITS SMACK Jason.  A bullet

hole outline appears on the wall behind him.

The cops start running out of ammo and a cry goes

up, "More ammo! More ammo!".

VARIOUS INSERTS OF cops going for hideout pistols,

opening their trunks and taking out ammo cans,

passing the weapons and ammo up the staircase to the

cops in the studio.

Jason keeps getting SHOT.  Pieces of his are flying

off.  Fingers shot off of a hand.  A knee shot away

to reveal the bone.  Dozens of BULLET HITS going off

of his chest and head.

Finally, the cops start to run out of ammo.  The

SHOOTING subsides and finally grinds to a stop, leaving

the cops knee-high in brass and a thick layer of

gunsmoke in the room.

As it clears, Jason still stands.  He teeters a little,

then falls backwards with a mighty THUD.

Jason lays dying.  Meagan rushes to his side.  Jason

reaches into one of the giant holes in his chest and

pulls something out -- Jesse's heart.

Jason hands the heart to Meagan.  Then Jason's head

rolls back -- he's dead.

Meagan begins weeping as we pull up out of the studio,

revealing her surrounded by Jason, Freddy, and Murdoch.

INT. LIZZY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Meagan tucks Lizzy into her bed.  She gives her the

Raggedy Ann doll and kisses her goodnight.  As Meagan

turns out the light, Lizzy asks:

Meagan clucks and bends down, peering under the bed

-- nada.

Lizzy giggles.

INT. MEAGAN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION

As Meagan crosses to her room, her parents call up

to her from the bottom of the staircase.

Meagan looks down at her parents.

INT. MEAGAN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Meagan is ready for bed, drawing back the covers,

when the phone RINGS.  She picks it up.

Freddy's nasty tongue slithers out of the handset and

licks Meagan in the face.  She yelps and slams the

phone down.

Meagan puts the phone in a drawer and closes it.  She

climbs into bed and pulls back the pillow to reveal

the pistol Erwin gave Jesse to kill Freddy.  She smiles

and puts the pistol back under the pillow.

The phone RINGS.

ROLL END CREDITS:

Then... at the very end...

INT. NIGHTMARE ARENA - SAME TIME

Ted Bundy and all the spectators are looking up at

the hole in the ceiling that Jason and Freddy made

when they went back to reality... waiting.

Finally, somebody says:

All the monsters get grumbling and start to exit.

BLACK... now it's over.

