HEAVY METAL - by Dan Goldberg & Len Blum

THE HEAVY METAL MOVIE

- Final Draft -

FADE UP ON

A WHEATFIELD

A beautiful field of wheat glistens in the morning sun.

As the camera skims overtop, titles start to roll.  Ahead

of us an odd-looking service van comes into view, sputtering

along a dirt road.  Getting closer, we can see the driver, a

thin, bookish man with a neat mustache.  This is AUSTIN GRIMALDI.

The truck pulls up to a strange Victorian house in the middle

of the wheatfield.  The house has several futuristic radar

devices on the roof that rotate constantly.

AUSTIN gets out, opens the van's rear doors, and pulls out

two large metal boxes.

THE ATTIC WINDOW

The curtains part ever so slightly, and a pair of eyes peer

down.

THE VAN

AUSTIN shuts the van's rear doors, and carries the two metal

boxes into the house.  The titles stop rolling as we;

INSIDE THE HOUSE

AUSTIN is reading a schematic diagram as he sits in front of

the exposed chassis of a complicated futuristic electronic

contraption, twice his size.  There are strange tools all

over the floor.

Putting down the diagram, he opens one of the metal cases and

takes out a sophisticated-looking glass sphere with electronic

receptacles mounted in the sides.

He places this sphere in a space in the middle of the contraption,

clamps it down, and plugs some wires into the globe's receptacles.

Then he opens the second box.  Inside is a glowing green ball.

Using a pair of special tongs, AUSTIN carefully lifts the ball

out, and inserts it into an opening at the base of the machine,

in the back.

As soon as the ball is inside, the machine hums to life.  The

glass sphere sparkles, and a holographic picture of a green

planet in space appears inside it.

He takes a strange tool, and moves out of frame to make an

adjustment underneath the machine.  Suddenly a wire comes

loose from the sphere and begins to spark.

As the camera pulls closer to the holograph screen, the

green planet begins to silently shake.

SPACE

With an explosion that rocks the universe, a huge chunk rips

out of the green planet and shoots off into space, leaving

thousands of glowing particles in its wake.

AUSTIN

Not noticing the silent image on the holograph, he quickly

repairs the sparkling connection and returns to his other

adjustments.

A FOREST

From the forest floor we see the green planetoid fly overhead,

dropping balls.  We watch as it moves away and disappears beyond

a far-off mountain range.  The forest rumbles as the planetoid

crashes in the distance.

The camera then pans over to a forest patch, where a beautiful

girl approaches, picking mushrooms.

A GREEN BALL NEAR HER FEET

An ominous note is struck as the girl notices the glowing

ball, and is drawn to it.  Picking the sphere up, she looks

at it.  Something inside her warns her of its danger, but,

unable to resist, she puts it in her basket and continues on.

THE GATES OF KRAAN

Night falls over this futuristic chromoid city as the beautiful

girl passes through the glass gates and heads home.

THE GIRL'S BEDROOM

The girl yawns and gets into bed as the camera pans over to

her basket in the corner.  Through its side, the green ball

begins to glow brightly.

Getting closer, we see a slimy silk-like webbing ooze out of

the ball and move towards the sleeping girl, pulling the green

ball behind it.

The ball starts to glow and pulse as the webbing begins to

surround the girl, like a cocoon.  Slowly the camera pans

up the wall, and moves out through the window, and beyond

the city gates, rising higher and higher.

THE OUTLANDS

Flying quickly overtop futuristic villages, the camera

heads further and further out into the less civilized sectors,

where the rusting pipelines and crumbling utility stations of

a past civilization have been overgrown by scrub-bush and weeds.

The camera zooms across this strange landscape toward the distant

mountains where the huge planetoid fell.  Finally, from high

above the foothills, we begin to come down.

In the hills below us, hundreds of blue humanoid barbarians are

moving along, mesmerized, toward a pulsing green glow high in

the mountaintops.  Suddenly the mountains begin to rumble.

THE LINE OF BARBARIANS

At the front of the line, the largest barbarian - obviously

their leader - stops and points.

THE MOUNTAINS

A strange, green, foamy liquid comes pouring down the mountains

toward the barbarians.

THE LINE OF BARBARIANS

The barbarians stand frozen as the foam washes over them and keeps

on going.  One by one, their eyes turn green and they start to

change, becoming hairier, uglier, and stronger.

As their transformations are complete, the barbarians gather

behind their leader into an ever-growing mob of murderous

looking sub-humans.

THE GATES OF KRAAN

A frightened Kraanian councillor spurs his horse forward through

the beautiful glass gates, as in the distance we hear the sound

of ten thousand approaching footsteps.

The camera pans to a hillside overlooking Kraan.  In the glow

of sunset, the outline of the BARBARIAN LEADER, riding a black

war-horse, appears at the hillside and stops.  Then with a

thundering of footsteps, the outline of five thousand barbarians

comes into view behind him, filling the horizon.

THE BARBARIAN LEADER

He is now wearing a strange medallion around his neck as, wild-

eyed, he screams to signal the attack.  The bloodthirsty horde

charges down the hill behind him.

The camera moves with the barbarians as they crash through the

gates of the city, destroying everything in their path.  Smoke

and flames are everywhere.  Ahead of us, terrified Kraanians

run from the onslaught.

As we track up over the burning rooftops, we see the BARBARIAN

LEADER riding his war-horse in the streets below.  Shouting

a command, he waves his men on as they move toward an impressive

doomed building in the middle of the city.

THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS

At the far end of this huge glass hall, the Kraanian Council

sits around a marble table.  From outside, we hear the battle

raging.

Pulling closer we can hear the worried voices of the Council

members.

fight

!

Everyone gets quiet.  Looking at the parchment thrown before

him, the ancient, withered ELDER rises to his feet.

Pact

!

dead

!  They cannot defend anyone!

not

one

?

Outside, the sounds of battle grow louder.  A boy appears at

the doorway.

within

!

must

The clattering of armour becomes audible.

The Councilmen nod.

As the Councilmen take up the chant;

THE DOOR

As the boy begins to bar the door, it bursts open, flinging him

aside.  Standing in the doorway, surrounded by his men, is

the BARBARIAN LEADER.

With a laugh, he raises a Medieval-looking multiple cross-bow

and fires a burst of arrows into the boy's chest, as the crazed

troops rush in around him.

The chanting continues as we;

THE OUTLANDS

We look down over this uncivilized wilderness with only

decaying pipelines and the occasional jagged rock structure

breaking the barren uniformity of the land.  As the Council's

distant chanting fades out, all is quiet.

Suddenly from behind us, we hear the sound of flapping wings

and a huge rush of air.  Just above our heads, TAARNA THE

DEFENDER comes flying in, sitting proudly in the saddle of

a giant crimson bird.

TAARNA'S FACE

She is beautiful, with dark eyes and wild red hair blowing

behind her in the wind.

Below her, on the ground, she sees a humanoid running in terror,

chased by an ugly, four-legged mutant creature.

Spurring her bird forward, TAARNA sweeps down over the ugly

beast and lassoes it.  She then hoists the creature up into

the air and, tossing her end of the rope over a tall jagged

rock, she leaves the snarling beast hanging helplessly.

Flying down to the grateful humanoid, she dismounts.  As

she approaches we see that he has a barbarian medallion

on a chain around his neck.

He takes off his medallion and places it around her neck.

Suddenly he twists the chain tight in his hand, pulling her

towards him.  His eyes change to a bright green as he forces

her to the ground and starts ripping at her clothes.  As he

molests her, TAARNA is distracted.  She hears something - voices

inside her, chanting her name.

Quickly she grabs the chain and rips it apart.  Then she

powerfully smashes both her hands together around her attacker's

ears.  As he holds his ringing ears, she gets up, lifts him

above her head, and hurls him mercilessly to the ground.

Still hearing the chanting, she jumps on her bird, pulls out

a second rope, and lassoes the barbarian's feet.  She then

lifts him up and leaves him hanging from the tall, jagged rock,

next to the growling creature.

As TAARNA flies off, the hanging beast eyes the barbarian

hungrily.

AUSTIN GRIMALDI

He is still sitting on the floor, working on his machine.

As the camera pulls closer, we see that AUSTIN is reaching

deep inside the machineworks, trying to solder a small orange

diode in place with an odd-style soldering iron.  The connection

breaks, and the diode and some hot solder fall deeper into the

machine and start smoking and sputtering.  As the smoke grows

thicker, the machine starts to buzz loudly.

AUSTIN pulls his face out of the smoking chassis, grabs a pair

of needlenose pliers, and reaches back to retrieve the part.

The camera follows AUSTIN'S arm into the chassis, where smoke

surrounds it and clouds over everything.  The buzzing sound

grows, and changes into the sound of powerful, throbbing

engines.  Slowly the smoke begins to clear as we hear a voice

crackling over a radiophone.

Suddenly the smoke dissipates and a formation of B-17 bombers

come tearing out into the moonlit night.

THE GROUND BELOW

The sound of jungle night creatures fills the air.  We see

palm trees silhouetted against the moon bright sky.  The

scene is almost serene.  The camera pans and suddenly the

nose of a large parked bomber fills the screen, and as the

camera continues panning, we pass a large red rising sun on

the bomber's fuselage.  The pan stops at the tail of the

aircraft, and we see a Japanese soldier - a guard.

There is a moment of tranquillity, as jungle sounds fill the

air.  The soldier almost dozes ... suddenly the cacophony of

sound stops, and for a brief moment there is complete silence

... then with an agonizing wail an air raid siren shatters

the silence and the guard looks skyward, startled.

Instantly all hell breaks loose as we hear pounding feet.

Silhouetted figures rush by.

A GUN EMPLACEMENT

Japanese soldiers crank the barrel of an anti-aircraft gun

skyward.  We begin to hear the sound of approaching engines.

CLOSEUP OF A SHELL

It is thrust into a breech.

THE B-17 FORMATION

As the bombers press on, the camera moves in to the lead

aircraft.  In the moonlight we see her name, "Pacific Pearl".

INT. - THE "PACIFIC PEARL"

Suddenly a cacophony of explosions split the air as anti-aircraft

shells explode ahead of the aircraft, lighting the inside with

electric blue flashes.

THE GROUND

Ackack guns blast shells skyward.  The gun blasts light up

the palm tree background, causing momentary silhouettes.

THE BOMBARDIER

THE BELLYGUNNER

He can be seen from outside the plane as the shell flashes

light up his turret.

THE BOMBARDIER

THE BELLYGUNNER

The flak is severe, with electric blue flashes lighting up

the fuselage interior.

THE TAILGUNNER

Tailgunner momentarily lit with a shell burst, he's scared

shitless.  He looks nervously back behind the aircraft at

the flak puffs behind the tail.

THE BOMBARDIER

He is crouched over his bomb-sights, concentrating.

THE PILOT'S COMPARTMENT

Suddenly a shell explodes almost on the windshield and the

pilot rears back with the blast.  The right windshield is

shattered.

The co-pilot sags forward, held back only by his shoulder

straps.  His eyes stare.  Blood runs from under his helmet.

We know he is dead.

THE BOMBARDIER

THE GROUND

We hear the shriek of descending bombs.  The explosions walk

across the airfield, and in the light of the explosions we

see devastation.  The last bomb hits a fuel dump, causing an

enormous ball of fire.

THE PACIFIC PEARL

There is abrupt silence.

Still silence, no reply from either name.

THE TAILGUNNER

TAILGUNNER crosses himself, then exits back into the body of

the machine.

THE PILOT

We hear jumbled comments from all positions.  Everyone is

happy.

The mood of high spirits is stopped abruptly as the tailgunner

reports back.

This is the first time the kid's voice is not scared, just

puzzled.

THE BOMBARDIER

He removes his oxygen mask and takes a long swig from a

bottle.

EXT. - THE "PACIFIC PEARL"

She rejoins the rest of the group.  The formation is not

quite as tight as before.  As the formation flies along,

puffs of cloud pass by, occasionally obscuring a machine.

LOW VIEW OF THE "PACIFIC PEARL"

Under the "Pacific Pearl's" belly, we see the bellygunner

suspended in his small glass pod.  A red glow brightens up

as he drags on a cigar.  The rest of the formation are

visible stretched to the side and behind as puffs of cloud

waft past.  We begin to feel as if the weather might be

changing.

THE NOSE OF THE "PACIFIC PEARL"

The BOMBARDIER is relaxing inside as he swigs from the bottle

and sings raucously.  From the front we look in on the pilot

with the dead co-pilot sagging in his seat next to him.

While all this banter has been going on the cloud has been

thickening.  Suddenly a serious voice cuts in on the small

talk. It's the NAVIGATOR.

THE NAVIGATOR

He is frantically tapping the compass.

PILOT

He looks at his compass.

A sudden flash of lightning illuminates the whole inside of

the plane.

THE COCKPIT

The dead co-pilot's pale face is momentarily electric blue,

lit by the lightning flash.  We pan past him to the compass in

the instrument panel.  It is spinning madly.

He reaches forward to tap the compass.

OUTSIDE THE PLANE

We see a dull glow coming from all crew positions from the

on-board lights.  Suddenly a curtain of rain lashes the machine.

THE INSTRUMENT PANEL

All the dials are going haywire.  Above the instrument panel

we see the windshield is spattered with rain.

Just then through the rain, a strange green glow is seen

in the distance.  It begins to curve toward the aircraft.

OUTSIDE THE PLANE - NEAR BELLY TURRET

The turret swings as the gunner spots the glow.

From under the starboard wing, we see the object approaching.

The glow suddenly zooms at the plane with great speed and hits

the starboard inner engine.

PILOT'S POV

He has to push the dead co-pilot back to peer out the

broken starboard window ... the number three prop is bent

and windmilling wildly.  It has a strange green luminescence

about it ... the whole machine shakes.

The PILOT tries to fly the plane and do the co-pilot's job of

feathering the bad engine.  Suddenly it's too late as the prop

wobbles loose and cartwheels over the wing.

OUTSIDE THE PLANE

The prop flies back and slices a great gash in the aircraft's

skin, near the TAILGUNNER'S position.

THE PILOT

Silence.

Silence.

INSIDE HATCH

TRAVIS' turret opens and TRAVIS pulls himself up into the fuselage.

THE PILOT

The gauges are now settled except for the oil pressure to

No. 2 engine.  The pressure drops.  The engine heat gauge

climbs rapidly.  A red warning light begins to flash.

He glances out of his window just in time to see a strange,

claw-like feeler coming out of the engine casing.  It detaches

one of the cooling gills, then another, and another.  They blow

away in the slipstream.

THE BELLYGUNNER

He looks in to the kid's reargun compartment.  All that is left

of him is a tattered skeleton.

TRAVIS turns, horror frozen on his face.  Quick as a flash,

from seemingly nowhere, something flies at him and grabs his

throat.  The mask on his face falls off, and we get a split

second look of abject horror as he falls out of frame.

TRAVIS

His eyes are open but he is obviously dead.  Through his helmet

headphone, we hear his name.

THE PILOT

All the time the engine pops and bangs wildly.

THE NAVIGATOR

THE PILOT

THE RADIO OPERATOR

THE PILOT

He is fighting the controls.

THE BOMBARDIER

STEPEK takes another swig from his bottle.  He is lying on

his back partly propped up by the curving nose of the aircraft.

He is about to make another smart ass reply, when he hears a

strange scratching and chirping noise above his head.  He

looks up in time to see sharp teeth and claws start to appear

through the lining above his head.  He blinks in disbelief and

throws his bottle away as if the image came from the whiskey.

STEPEK is wide-eyed and scared silly as the sound now begins

under his feet and pincers begin to snip through the floor.

He suddenly realizes that the whole floor is giving way beneath

him, and he grabs for a handful of cables as the floor collapses.

OUTSIDE THE AIRCRAFT

The lower half of STEPEK is hanging in the slipstream, kicking

madly.  We see that his legs are covered in wriggling creatures.

STEPEK

He is losing his grip with one hand, but still desperately

clinging on to a bunch of cables with the other.  Suddenly

an ugly pincer cuts the cables and STEPEK is gone ... out

into the night.

THE PLANE

Suddenly the No. 2 engine begins to backfire, blasting back

large gobs of orange flame.  The oil, heat and manifold gauges

are off the dial and red lights frantically flash.  Desperately

the PILOT looks out of the window.

Pieces begin flying off the engine.  The cowling disintegrates

revealing the bare engine beneath.  Small figures are frantically

busy ripping the engine to pieces.

THE PILOT

He is scared.

The NAVIGATOR grimaces as he pushes past the dead co-pilot.

He peers out at the incredible sight of the creatures ripping

off the wing skin and tearing huge plates from the cowlings.

The camera pans down to his feet as the hatch door handle twists

and then bursts open.  A dozen bat-like creatures swarm in.

The NAVIGATOR panics and reaches up, grabbing the flare gun

from its rack.  He screams as the creatures attack and shoots

right through the creatures, bathing the aircraft with a bright

ruby glow.

THE RADIO OPERATOR

The flare shoots down the fuselage and smashes into him.

Wreathed in flames, he falls back into the fuselage.

OUTSIDE THE AIRCRAFT

Creatures swarm all over the plane.  The ball turret falls

off.  A wheel suddenly lowers, then falls off.  A flap flutters

free and blows away.  Oil streams back into the slipstream and

sections of the skin of the plane come away, revealing the

skeleton framework of the fuselage.

THE PILOT

He is fighting the controls.  Creatures are now in the cockpit,

plucking out the instruments.  The PILOT reaches to the throttle

only to grab a creature that locks on to his gloved hand.

Flying the plane with his good hand, he strikes and pummels

at the attacking creatures with the other.

OUTSIDE THE AIRCRAFT

It is now almost a flying skeleton.  For the first time, we

see that it is heading for an island.  A figure detaches itself

from the machine and plummets away.

THE PILOT

He falls, terror-stricken, through space.  Finally his chute

opens.  A slimy creature still clings to his gloved hand.  He rips

off the glove and throws it and the creature away.

THE ISLAND

The approaching smoking plane bellies onto the sea, bounces,

then skims along the wave tops, careening up onto the beach,

where it twists around crazily before coming to a lopsided

stop.  The machine faces us head-on and we see a glow coming

from what's left of No. 3 engine. The camera zooms in rapidly

to a green ball stuck in engine No. 3.

THE PILOT

He has landed, and is undoing his parachute harness.  He looks

around incredulously.  The island is a junkyard - a veritable

graveyard of aircrafts.  There are many aircrafts, both old

wrecks and futuristic-looking ones lying everywhere.  Skeletal

corpses are still left in some of the wrecks.  The camera pans

to the remains of one machine.  It is an old American Lockheed

Electra.  It glints dull in the half light of dawn.  Painted

on its side are two names; "Amelia Earhart" and "Fred Noonan".

The camera continues to move through this panorama of metallic

junk until it stops on a long chrome rod sticking up out of

a pile of scrap.

Tilting up to the sky we see the clouds part as two gargantuan

metal arms emerge and descend down toward the junkpile.  The

metal arms reach the chrome rod, grip it tightly, and begin to

lift it up.

WWe follow as the cylinder is pulled higher and higher, finally

coming to a stop in front of a giant eyeball.  The camera pulls

back to reveal that the eyeball belongs to AUSTIN GRIMALDI,

who carefully scrutinizes the orange diode held tightly in his

needlenose pliers.

Satisfied that this is the piece he had lost in the machine,

he begins to re-solder it in place.  Behind him, a LITTLE

GIRL with red hair comes into the room and walks up to him.

The LITTLE GIRL wanders around to the other side of the machine,

as AUSTIN flips a switch.  Once again the glass sphere sparkles

and the holographic screen lights up.  AUSTIN uses a tool to

fine-tune the holograph and an image begins to materialize;

the glass gates of Kraan.

As the image becomes clearer, the camera pulls closer and closer

to the holograph screen.

THE GATES OF KRAAN

The Council's voices still ringing in her head, TAARNA flies

in over the demolished gates.  Below her, the once-beautiful

city lies in ruins.

Gliding overtop the deserted streets, she sees a column of

smoke rising through the wrecked dome of the building in the

town's center.  As she watches the smoke rise, she pulls hard

on the reins, and heads her bird up.

The camera follows as she rides in through the shattered dome

down to the Council Chambers below.

Corpses of the Councilmen are strewn everywhere.  In the

center of the room, a large pile of ancient books and

manuscripts lie smouldering.  Reaching the floor, TAARNA

dismounts and starts to look around.  At the head of

the marble table sits the ELDER - dead.  In front of him,

a roll of parchment lies on the table.  TAARNA opens it.

Carefully painted on the parchment is a circle of mountains,

their tops glowing green.

TAARNA looks at it, and puts it in her sack.  Then she notices

that the ELDER is clutching something in his hand.  Prying

his stiff fingers apart, she finds a blood-stained medallion

just like the one her attacker wore on his chain.

Looking at the dead ELDER, TAARNA grips the medallion tightly

in her hand.

OUTSIDE THE COUNCIL BUILDING

TAARNA flies back out through the shattered dome and surveys

the city below.  All is quiet and dark, except for a green glow

coming from a second-floor window.  Curious, she flies over,

pulls up beside the window, and climbs in.

GIRL'S BEDROOM

Entering, TAARNA sees the slimy silk-like cocoon on the bed.

The basket of fruit still sits on the floor.  From

within the webbing, the green ball is glowing brightly.

TAARNA looks at the parchment in her sack, then at the glow

coming from the cocoon.  Cautiously, she approaches the cocoon,

sword drawn.

Suddenly a hand from within the cocoon grabs the ball and

shoots forward, ripping through the webbing and holding the

ball up to TAARNA's face.  The hand belongs to a hideously

ugly witch, who emerges from the cocoon, cackling through

snake-like fangs.

death

you

The witch's eyes go green.

She hurls tha ball at TAARNA, who dodges it.  The ball sails

past her, out the window.  Then TAARNA, sword raised, leaps

at the WITCH, slicing through her in rapid strokes.

The WITCH cackles and crumbles into dust, but her green eyes

stay suspended in the air, and her cackle echoes through

the room.

TAARNA backs away, climbing out the window, onto her bird.  As

she flies off, she sees the WITCH'S green ball high above her,

rising into the clouds and disappearing.

SPACE

The WITCH'S green ball zooms through space, as Earth appears

in the distance.  Then another object comes into sight.  Getting

closer we see that is is a modern winged rocketplane of no

determinable nationality, soaring high above Earth.  The green

meteorite passes, briefly bathing the rocketplane in its glow.

The rocketplane banks sharply, then stabilizes.  Slowly the

hatch-doors in its belly open up, revealing the underside of

an automobile suspended in the open hatch.

Hydraulic metal arms emerge, lowering the automobile out from

the belly of the cruising rocketplane.  We can see now

that the car is a white, '59 Corvette convertible.

With a "thunk", the metal arms release the car, and

as the rocketplane blasts away, the Corvette begins its

free-fall to Earth.

As the car falls gracefully through space, the driver plays

with the wheel, causing the Corvette to bank smoothly one

way, then the other.

Once his direction is stable, the driver clicks on the car

radio and adjusts it through various channels, until he settles

on one.

With the music playing, the car falls closer and closer to

Earth, entering and emerging from the cloud cover over the

atmosphere.  In the heat of entry the vehicle's paint starts

burning up.

As he heads down over a deserted area, the driver begins his

approach.  Touching down at breakneck speed, the smoking

Corvette bounces violently, every part straining at the

repeated impact.

The driver's face is expressionless as he jams the car into

high gear and floors it, spinning the wheels in an attempt

to translate downward momentum into forward motion.  Then

he pops his drag chute to help slow down.

TThis accomplished, the expressionless driver releases the

chute, and speeds off down the road in a cloud of dust.

EXT.  THE PENTAGON - AERIAL SHOT

From high above the building we see a crowd of reporters

and T.V. newsmen waiting on the front steps.

The '59 Corvette pulls up at the curb below, and seeing

it, the reporters all start to run over.

The camera zooms down and into the car.  Inside, the driver

reaches over, unplugs a rubber hose, and loosens the two

large hex-nuts which connect him to the car.  As he gets out,

the reporters come running up.

The driver walks on without speaking.

himself

He ignores the question, and walks past the guard into the

Pentagon.

INT.  PENTAGON - MEETING ROOM

Around a large table sit the Joint Chiefs of Staff, members of

the Cabinet, and a pretty secretary wearing a tight skirt.

An argument is in progress as the expressionless DOCTOR ANRAK

enters.  The camera follows him as he sits down next to one

of the Generals.

The room goes silent as the DOCTOR stands up.

OUTSIDE THE PENTAGON

An enormous round spaceship the size of Pittsburg hovers

overhead.

THE MEETING ROOM

not

Suddenly the DOCTOR'S head starts to jerk from side to side.

Everyone looks on, not knowing how to react.  As the DOCTOR

begins to move in short bursts, like a broken robot, he

fixes his gaze upon the pretty secretary across the table.

OUTSIDE THE PENTAGON

From the bottom of the huge spacecraft, a metal tube emerges and

starts to drill through the roof of the Pentagon.

THE MEETING ROOM

The DOCTOR starts to shake violently as he stares at the pretty

secretary.

Suddenly he lunges at her, sliding across the table.

As the DOCTOR struggles with the terrified girl, the camera

pans up to the ceiling, where the metal tube from the spaceship

drills through.  Descending upon them, it sucks them up instantly.

INSIDE THE SPACECRAFT - CONTROL ROOM

A metallic robot holding a clipboard, is standing in front of

a large glass receiving jar, as DOCTOR ANRAK comes through

the tube and lands in the jar.  As soon as the DOCTOR'S feet

hit the bottom of the jar, the DOCTOR breaks into a lot of

small metallic parts.

ZEKE and EDSEL, two alien space-pilots, are standing nearby,

at the control console.  They look like big furry orange heads

on stilts, with arms coming out of the sider.

me

?

Suddenly the pretty secretary comes through the tube and lands

in the jar.  She's a little mussed up, but okay.

He looks at the ROBOT, who winks at him.

ZEKE and EDSEL try to keep straight faces.

They disappear down a corridor.

CONTROL CONSOLE

EDSEL jams the gearshift into 'D' for Drive, and the ship

lifts away from Earth.

ZEKE opens a hatch and pulls out a double-spouted plastic

bag on wheels the size of a steamer-trunk.  It is full of

white powder.

He pours two fifteen-foot lines of powder onto the floor.

Then, he pauses.

As he resumes pouring, ZEKE begins singing to himself in an

alien tongue.  When the lines are poured, they both stand at

the start of the trail of white powder, and part their hair

to reveal nostrils hidden in their foreheads.

They both start to criss-cross the room, inhaling the white

powder like vaccuum cleaners.  As they happily snort the

Nyborg, the camera pans back to the glass receiving jar, and

moves down through the broken pieces of DOCTOR ANRAK.  Reaching

his lifeless face, the camera moves around to the back of the

head.  Through the shattered metal we can see a green ball,

glowing inside ANRAK'S skullpiece.

SPACE - ZEKE AND EDSEL'S P.O.V.

As the round spaceship moves through space, a group of

asteroids approach and whip past.  Up ahead, a red sun

turns white and goes super-nova.

INSIDE THE SPACECRAFT - ROBOT'S BEDROOM

GLORIA PEARLMAN and the ROBOT are lying in bed, naked.

They have just finished making love.  She is smoking a cigarette.

CONTROL CONSOLE

ZEKE and EDSEL are sitting at the controls, staring wide-eyed

out into space.  They are obviously stoned.  Suddenly a bell

rings and the communicator screen lights up.  A serious officer's

face appears on it.

ZEKE looks over at the screen and then shouts into it.

man

"!  You call me

Com-Op Officer Blix

". Now is that

The screen goes blank.

ZEKE jams the gearshift into hyper-drive.

SPACE

The round spaceship blasts forward at ten times the speed

of light.

SPACE - LATER

ZEKE and EDSEL'S round spacecraft looks like an apple

heading toward a freight train as it approaches the

enormous mother-ship.

INSIDE SPACECRAFT - CONTROL CONSOLE

An ashtray full of roaches sits on the console.  ZEKE is

at the controls with a joint in his mouth.  He is swaying

back and forth, eyes glazed.  Beside him, EDSEL watches

the mothership getting closer.

MOTHERSHIP'S LANDING AREA

Huge red arrows point the way through the ten-mile wide

landing area as the round spaceship glides in.

The round ship rams directly into a wall, and crashes down,

skidding to a stop in front of the loading bay.

INSIDE SPACECRAFT - ENTRANCE HATCH

ZEKE and EDSEL press a button to open the hatch doors.

As the door opens we see two metallic Regolian guards

waiting on the other side.  Between them stands a small,

shabbily-dressed humanoid with a crooked jaw and

cauliflower ears.  This is HANOVER FISTE.

The guards wheel away.

CORRIDOR IN SPACESHIP

ZEKE and EDSEL escort FISTE down the corridor.

FISTE nods.

SPACE - LATER

As the round spaceship journeys through space it passes through

a fantastic space-scape of disembodied rock statues, and past

a magnificent graffiti-covered robot chained to an asteroid.

ROBOT'S BEDROOM

GLORIA is getting dressed as the ROBOT re-charges his energy-

paks.

CONTROL ROOM

The hatch opens, and GLORIA and the ROBOT walk through,

still talking.

As they move through the room, and out the other side, they

pass FISTE, who is sitting quietly near the receiving jar,

hands folded.  Looking around, FISTE notices a green glow

coming from the bottom of the jar.  He gets up, quietly opens

the jar, and pokes through the scrap robot parts.

Finding the small green ball in ANRAK'S head, he pulls it

out and looks at it.

CONTROL CONSOLE

ZEKE and EDSEL are sitting at the controls, driving carefully.

FISTE, carrying the green ball, comes up and sits down beside

them.

sure

FISTE says nothing.  He just clutches the green ball and stares

into space.

ZEKE and EDSEL look at each other and shrug.

OUTSIDE THE SPACESHIP

An enormous, brightly-lit, multi-level space station/courthouse

floats into view, completely filling the screen.  ZEKE and

EDSEL'S round spaceship is just a speck as it enters the frame,

approaching the mammoth structure.

SPACE-STATION LANDING DOCK

The ship locks into the dock, and the exit hatch opens.

GLORIA and the ROBOT come through first, ahead of ZEKE, EDSEL,

and FISTE.

space

.  95% of the population are

robot

-rabbi!

GLORIA and the ROBOT disappear around a corner as ZEKE and EDSEL

escort FISTE through the hatch.  FISTE is carrying the small

green ball.

As they lead FISTE away, the camera pulls back, out through

a space-port, and moves along the outside of the slowly

rotating space-station.  At the top, the camera zooms down

through a massive glass-domed ceiling and into a huge

inter-galactic courtroom.

Voices echo below us.

As we move down, we see square-jawed CAPTAIN STERNN, his

shifty-eyed lawyer, and the cold Prosecutor all standing

before the Judge.

STERNN is smirking confidently as the Prosecutor reads from

a long page of charges.

THE GALLERY

The hostile humanoid and alien faces all stare at STERNN with

hateful, accusing eyes.

STERNN'S LAWYER

Mopping his brow, he looks nervously over to STERNN.

CAPTAIN STERNN

Smiling to himself, he nods, then gets serious.

nuts

?!?

STERNN and his lawyer move to their seats.

cold

!

THE COURTROOM DOORS

ZEKE and EDSEL enter with FISTE, and push their way to the

front.

ZEKE and EDSEL sit down, while HANOVER FISTE, small and

shabby, walks up to the witness stand, nervously clutching

the small green ball in his hand.  As he passes, STERNN and

his lawyer continue to argue.

HANOVER FISTE is sworn in, as Sternn's lawyer begs.

guilty

!

angle

.

What

WITNESS STAND

STERNN

WITNESS STAND

STERNN AND HIS LAWYER

WITNESS STAND

never

anything

STERNN AND HIS LAWYER

They look at each other, shocked.

WITNESS STAND

dope

nun

!!

worm

!!

STERNN and his lawyer look on, horrified, as FISTE'S body

starts to grow.

good

New muscles tear through FISTE'S shabby clothes.

Growing larger, he starts foaming at the mouth.

buried alive

!!!

FISTE rams his hands down onto the Witness Stand, shattering

it completely.

He hurls the Prosecutor aside, and moves towards STERNN with

thundering footsteps.

Still growing, he rips apart the Judge's bench as he passes

it.  Finally  he stands towering in rage over the terrified

STERNN.

Instinctively, STERNN leaps back as FISTE'S giant hands come

smashing down in the spot where STERNN stood.  The gallery

scatters screaming as STERNN runs for the door.  Slavering,

FISTE thunders after him.  STERNN runs through the exit,

bolting the door behind him.  FISTE follows, tearing the

door apart, and bringing the entire courtroom wall down in

the process.

STERNN

Running down a hallway, STERNN passes a group of Regolian

cops, who raise their weapons in an attempt to block the

rampaging FISTE.

They open fire, but FISTE is unstoppable.  Still growing,

he grabs the Regolians's weapons, crunches them up and eats

them.

With a single clap of his enormous hands, FISTE crushes the

Regolian's metal skulls together into an accordian the thickness

of a dime.

STERNN

He races through a metallic hallway, and ducks into a boiler

room, then down a long dark tunnel.  At the end of the tunnel,

STERNN comes to a dead-end, and stops to rest.

here

!

Taking a deep breath, STERNN reaches into his pocket, pulls

out a wad of bills, and counts them out as he hands them to

FISTE.

Counting his money, FISTE starts shrinking back to his

normal size.

STERNN pulls a lever, which opens up the floor below FISTE,

who screams, falling out into space.  As FISTE slides out,

STERNN grabs the money from FISTE'S hand and smiles.

THE OUTLANDS

All is quiet across this vast expanse of rusted pipes and

barren desert.  The silence is broken by a whistling sound which

gets louder and louder.  Then, thud!

A green ball lands in the dirt in front of us.  Fluttering down

around it are HANOVER FISTE'S tattered clothes.  Then the

burnt ashes of Hanover's body land in a small pile beside his

clothes.  Panning up we see TAARNA flying on her bird in the

distance.

TAARNA

She swoops down and flies through a maze of rusting pipes and

cables which look like the ramnants of an ancient power station.

Then she steers her bird through a hidden opening in the rotting

floor, and enters a magnificent  secret hideaway cut deep into

the rock.

INSIDE TAARNA'S HIDEAWAY

Landing her bird on a circular slab of gleaming marble, TAARNA

dismounts and walks over to a shimmering pool.  Here she disrobes,

and picking up a small gold pitcher, she pours an ancient oil

over herself.  It shines and sparkles as it touches her skin.

Then she steps into the water, where her body seems to sparkle

even brighter.

Finishing her sacred bath, she steps out and walks to a stone

wall.  When she touches it, a rock panel slides away to reveal

a gold chest.  TAARNA opens it.

Inside the chest lies a glistening set of armoured garments,

so bright that TAARNA must shield her eyes for a moment.  Then,

as she looks down at the armour, the voice of TAARAK THE

DEFENDER comes into her head.

defend

avenge

!!

Through a series of dissolves we see TAARNA'S hands sensuously

fitting the various metallic pieces over her firm body.  Finally

we pull back to see her fully.

Standing before us, glistening in the torch-light, she looks

magnificent.  Reaching once more into the chest, TAARNA pulls

out a golden sword.  As she holds it, it seems to vibrate,

almost buzzing in her hands.  Suddenly she swings it, slicing

cleanly through one of the stone torches on the rock wall.  As

the burning torch falls to the ground, TAARNA leaves.

THE SKY

From over our heads, TAARNA comes soaring past, her armour

gleaming in the rays of the setting sun.  Below her, she

sees a metallic holiday-town filled with barbarian soldiers.

Drunken blue men fight in the streets, strange animals run

around loose, and dead or drunken bodies lie in the gutters.

Looking down, amidst the melee, she sees three winged creatures

tied up in front of a bar.  The camera zooms in on one of the

creature's saddlebags.  It has a silver medallion set into the

leather, identical to the one which TAARNA pried from the

Elder's fingers.

INSIDE THE BARROOM

Barbarian honky-tonk music fills the crowded room, as

various barbarian soldiers sit drinking and fondling the

bar-girls who are dressed in cheap, flashy metal outfits.

Three of the blue barbarians are particularly drunk and

rowdy as they push a non-barbarian down, dump a drink on his

head, laugh and kick him.

THE BARROOM DOOR

TAARNA walks in through the swinging silver and plexiglass

doors, past the three soldiers kicking their victim.  She sits

down at the bar.

The three brutish blue soldiers finish stomping the man and

walk over to the bar, crowding close around TAARNA.

TAARNA ignores him.

TAARNA'S HAND

It slowly moves down to her sword, and unclips the safety strap.

THE BARBARIANS

Taarna slowly stands up, pushing their hands away, and takes

a step back.

They all laugh.

all

Still laughing, they move towards her.

In a blinding flash, TAARNA draws her golden sword, and wielding

it like a Samurai master, slices off all three of their heads.

In an instant, the sword is back in its sheath.

The barbarian's heads stop laughing as they fall to the ground.

The music stops, and everyone in the bar stares at TAARNA.

Stepping over the bodies, TAARNA walks up to the bartender,

pulls out the parchment picture of the glowing mountains, and

shows it to him.  The bartender looks at it carefully, then

points out the window.

TAARNA nods and leaves.

THE BARTENDER

His eyes start to turn green.  The camera gets closer and

closer to his glowing eyes, until the green glow turns into

the image of a ball, lying in the ground, in AUSTIN'S holograph.

AUSTIN

AUSTIN is crouched over the machine turning several knobs,

trying to make the ball move.  Nothing happens.

Frustrated, AUSTIN picks up a flashlight, opens up a compartment

underneath the control knobs, and takes a look inside.  While

AUSTIN fiddles inside the machine, we see two hands appear on

the holograph screen and pick up the green ball.  AUSTIN looks

over to the holograph and notices.

THE HANDS

As the hands cradle the green ball, the camera pulls back

to reveal a skinny, unco-ordinated boy wearing thick eyeglasses,

carrying the sphere across his backyard.  This is DAN.

DAN carries the ball into a typical small-town house.

T.V. ANTENNA ON ROOF - STORMY NIGHT

As the narration continues, we follow two red wires down

from the T.V. antenna, along the roof, and into DAN'S attic

window.  The wires run through a bucket of water and are hooked

up to some electronic parts on DAN'S desk.

The camera pans around the room to show various displays of

DAN'S scientific tinkering - blue-ribbon science projects,

transparent models of a man and a woman showing all internal

organs, and many books.

In the corner, the green ball sits in DAN'S rock collection.

At his desk, DAN impatiently shuffles through the dusty pages

of an old scientific journal.

He looks out the window at the gathering storm.

THE STORM

Crackling from the sky, a bolt of lightning strikes the

television antenna and surges along the wires into the attic.

DAN'S ATTIC ROOM

The lightning flashes into DAN'S apparatus, lighting it up

brightly.

Suddenly, an electric arc jumps from the bucket of water

and crosses the room to join with thw ball on his shelf.

Caught in the middle, DAN begins to glow green.

The electrical field opens up a shimmering gateway into another

universe and DAN de-materializes.

THE TRANSFORMATION

We float in darkness for a moment as black shapeless images

zoom past.

Then, tiny beams of light join to form a glow in the corner

of the screen. The glow gets brighter and starts moving slowly

around the screen.  Now, we can make out some of the images

whipping past - a half-formed hand, pages of a book, a crumbling

pyramid, a green ball.

Sturdy muscular parts begin to materialize around the moving

light.  They join up with each other to form a powerfully built

human figure.

Finally a man's face takes shape, and as it forms, eveything

gets brighter and clearer.

The powerful figure, DEN, turns slowly as he floats and begins

to look at his hands and arms.  Moving his mouth, he speaks in

a new voice - deep and powerful.

Suddenly, the background explodes into fields of radiant colours

as the body accelerates away from us and passes through a second

shimmering gateway.

THE NEVERWHERE PYRAMID

DEN, strong, masculine and hairless, materializes cradled in

the hand of a huge stone idol.  He is naked and unconscious

Above him, the glowing green ball is held in the idol's other

hand.

The camera pulls back to show that the idol is standing on the

deck, stop a huge, truncated pyramid.  The deck forms a walkway

around a swirling pool of green water.

Kneeling all around the seething pool, are lizard-men, wearing

priest's robes.  Two of them stand beside a glass coffin.  Inside

the coffin, lies a naked girl, bound and gagged.

Directly in fron of the idol, a regal-looking QUEEN, wearing

a revealing velvet cloak, is praying to the raging water.

The waters of the sacrifical pool rage more violently and

a low rumble is heard far below.

THE IDOL'S HANDS

The green ball, (Loc-Nar), glows brightly as DEN opens his eyes,

looks down and notices his enormous genitals.

Seeing an animal-skin hanging from the idol, he rips off a

piece and wraps it around himself.

Suitably covered, he surveys the ritual taking place below him.

EDGE OF RAGING POOL

The QUEEN is kneeling before the seething water.

Two lizard priests remove the terrified girl from the glass

case and hold her out over the swirling water.  The QUEEN

nods and the two priests drop her in.

THE IDOL'S WATER

Seeing the girl struggle in the water, DEN'S eyes grow wide.

that

He stands and dives into the raging pool, swimming powerfully

towards the drowning girl.

UNDER WATER

Reaching her, DEN grabs the girl's  bound ankles, hooks them

over his head and drags her through a decayed hole in the

underwater wall.  Inside a stone tunnel, they are swept along

by the current.

EXT. FIELD OF LILIES - DAY

DEN and the girl are washed out into a pond at the center of

a beautiful field of lilies.  He pulls her out of the water,

unconscious.  As he unties her, she begins to stir.

She takes DEN'S hand and lies back in the flower, her

beautiful breasts exposed in the sunlight.

KATHERINE walks up close to DEN, takes his hand and touches

the fingers to her breast.

She circles her nipple with his baby finger.

great

!  There was

look

Taking KATHERINE in his arms, DEN lays her down on a bed of

flowers and begins to tenderly make love to her.

A spiked boot appears in the frame.  The camera pans up to

show a large, ugly hairy beast-man standing over DEN and

KATHERINE.

The camera then pulls back to reveal the entwined couple,

completely surrounded by a horde of grim, bestial warriors.

The ugly beast-men grab DEN and KATHERINE as we;

ARD'S THRONE ROOM

The beast-Captain keeps his machine gun trained on DEN as

the soldiers lead him into the cavernous room.

In the middle of the room there is a round stone pedestal

with a throne carved into it.  On the throne sits ARD, a

child-like ruler with a sadistic glint in his eye.

Two bestial guards approach from behind, brandishing curved

short-swords.  DEN turns instinctively, dodges the first thrust

and delivers a bone-shattering elbow to the beast's head,

crushing his skull.

Spinning with his own momentum, DEN throws a rock-hard fist

into the second guard's chest, snapping his rib-cage and

sending him flying across the room.

Without pausing, the bald muscleman grabs the nearby beast-

Captain and lifts him into the air by his machine-gun.  The

Captain hangs on as DEN twists the gun, butts it into the

creature's groin and then drives the weapon through the

Captain's jaw.

The creature crumples, leaving DEN with the gun.

DEN fires, spraying a row of bullets across ARD'S body.  The

bullets blast big yellow holes in ARD'S chest, but there is

no blood.  ARD looks up and laughs.

As DEN looks on, ARD'S wounds miraculously close up and heal

themselves over.

ARD pulls the velvet covering off of a glass box to reveal

KATHERINE, unconscious, sealed inside.

NORL, a huge gorilla-man, in a purple cloak, steps forward.

you

she

everybody

DEN looks down at KATHERINE'S motionless body.

RIVER BANKS NEAR THE QUEEN'S CASTLE

In the moonlight, DEN and NORL lead a squad of beast-warriors,

armed with automatic weapons, along the river towards the Queen's

castle.

NORL lifts a rock to reveal an underground passageway.

DEN and the warriors enter the underground passage.

UNDERGROUND TUNNEL

The group, carrying torches, moves along the dark tunnel.  They

pass a bubble-window with shark-faced eels swimming on the other

side.

DEN nods.  An ugly growl echoes through the tunnel up ahead.

the warriors freeze and murmur to each other in their own

languages.

A dog-faced warrior shakes his head and says something to NORL.

sixteen

Suddenly, a savage beast appears and chomps his long, razor-sharp

teeth into one of the warriors at the end of the line.  DEN, NORL,

and the remaining warriors run on through the tunnel as, behind

them, the monster pulls his victim apart.

DOORWAY IN CATACOMBS

DEN, NORL, and the remaining warriors arrive at a door in the

rock wall.

DEN nods, puts out his torch and carefully opens the door as

NORL moves off.

DARK ROOM

DEN and KORG silently enter.  Across the dark room, the

glow of the green ball casts a pale light.

They tip-toe towards it.

In the brightly lit room, DEN is standing before the beautiful

semi-clad QUEEN, and holding her firm, naked breasts in his hands.

Looking around, he sees that he and KONG are surrounded by a

brigade of the Queen's ugly guards, swords raised.

The Queen's guards attack with battle-axes, clubs and swords.

As DEN knees one in the groin and swings his gun into another's

face, four of the guards surround KORG and club his brains out.

But DEN, still going strong, throws two guards into the wall

and heaves a third out the window.  As the QUEEN watches with

glee, more guards rush into the room and DEN is finally over-

powered and held down.  The Captain of the guards places a long

knife against Den's throat.

The QUEEN, eyeing Den's magnificent body, sighs.

As the Captain presses his knife against Den's flesh, the

QUEEN suddenly raises her hand.

She takes Den's hand and leads him into an adjoining room, as

the guards grumble to one another.

always

THE QUEEN'S BOUDOIR

The QUEEN stands before DEN, hands on her hips and a funny look

in her eye.

She smiles, and approaches DEN.

The QUEEN lets her cloak drop to the floor as she gets closer.

She is naked underneath.

She steps forward and takes his hand, leading him towards the

bed.

THE QUEEN'S BED

DEN and the QUEEN are lying undressed on the enormous bed.

The QUEEN has a very contented look on her face.  DEN looks

exhausted.  As the Neverwhere moon rises outside the chamber

window, the QUEEN slowly runs her hand over DEN'S bulging

muscles.

that

Suddenly the Captain and his guards burst through the door.

stolen

!

The QUEEN jumps to her feet in a rage and points to DEN.

The guards grab DEN as the  QUEEN snatches one of their big

spiked clubs.

myself

!

Heaving the guards aside, DEN breaks free and jumps out the

chamber window.

THE CASTLE WALL

DEN falls down, down into the swirling waters of the castle

moat.

THE QUEEN

She is livid.

OUTSIDE THE CASTLE

Pulling himself out of the moat, DEN knocks a guard off his

leopard/horse and rides off.

THE NEVERWHERE PYRAMID

ARD is kneeling at the edge of the sacrificial pool.  Beside

him sits a long glass case wrapped in chains.  Through the

chains we see KATHERINE trapped inside - fully conscious and

terrified.  Ard's bestial warriors stand all around carrying

torches and spears.

Above them, the Loc-Nar sits glowing in the stone idol's hand.

The green water in the pool immediately begins to churn

violently and leap into the air.  A bolt of lightning

crackles in the sky.

THE NEVERWHERE DESERT

DEN is racing across the barren desert on his leopard/horse.

Visible in the distance is the outline of the huge, truncated

pyramid where he first saved KATHERINE.

As he rides, he sees the green glow of the Loc-Nar, sparkling

in the glass surfaces of the coffin in front of it.

He spurs his leopard/horse on into the night.

ANOTHER PART OF THE NEVERWHERE DESERT

The QUEEN, riding a flying lizard, leads her army in pursuit

of DEN.

QUEEN'S P.O.V.

Up ahead, silhouetted in the moonlight, she sees DEN, riding up

the steps of the pyramid.  The camera pans to the green glow

atop the torch-lit pyramid.

THE QUEEN

She whips her lizard harder.

THE NEVERWHERE PYRAMID

ARD is incanting to the raging water while two hooded monks

stand beside him, holding the struggling KATHERINE out over

the pool.

Chanting the name "Uluhtec", the two monks start to throw

the girl in when suddenly a third monk leaps forward and

grabs her, kicking the other two monks into the water.

The intruder's hood falls away and his bald head gleams in the

moonlight.

ARD jumps up and runs toward the Loc-Nar, perched in the stone

idol's hand.  Grabbing it, ARD holds the glowing ball above him.

Suddenly, a hand leaps out of the darkness, gripping the

Loc-Nar just above Ard's hand - it is the QUEEN.

As ARD and the QUEEN fight over the Loc-Nar, the Queen's troops

pour in and battle with Ard's soldiers.  Thunder roars overhead.

DEN

Holding KATHERINE in one arm, DEN smashes a nearby soldier and

grabs the beast's spear.  With the battle raging all around

him, DEN looks up at the sky.

THE SKY

Lightning crackles, illuminating the night with electricity.

DEN

DEN reaches down, picks up the long chain that was wrapped around

the glass case and attaches one end to his spear.  He kicks the

other end into the raging water, then heaves the spear

with all his might into the head of the stone idol.

In the same instant, a bolt of lightning fires down from the sky,

striking the idol full force.  The lightning bolt travels through

the spear and down the chain, into the water.  Suddenly, the

electrical energy arcs across to join with the Loc-Nar.

Holding onto the Loc-Nar, ARD and the QUEEN begin to glow green,

then de-materialize into a shimmering dimensional warp.  The

troops stop fighting and look on in amazement, until all

that remains is the glowing Loc-Nar, hanging in mid-air.

Suddenly, the Loc-Nar falls to the ground at Den's feet.

In a single powerful leap, DEN, carrying KATHERINE, bounds up

onto the Queen's flying lizard and they fly off.  The amazed troops

watch for a moment, then shrug and resume fighting.

DEN'S FLYING LIZARD

KATHERINE clings to DEN as they fly.

The lizard banks sharply away from us and carries them into the

distance.

DEN

.

THE NEVERWHERE PYRAMID

The camera pans down the stone statue to the glowing sphere,

which lies abandoned on the ground.  The soldiers are gone.  As

we watch, time begins to accelerate and the Neverwhere Pyramid

ages and crumbles all around the green ball.  The earth heaves

and shifts, and dense vegetarian grows up through the cracks in

the ground.

A prehistoric man walks up and sees the glowing ball under a fern.

Fascinated, he picks it up and looks at it, as the foot of a

Tyrannosaurus Rex comes down, crushing him.

Time advances again as the dinosaur becomes a skeleton, and

a Biblical tent-community grows up around the ball.  In the

fire-light, the Nomadic tribesmen are watering their animals,

when one of the camels paws at the ground, uncovering the glowing

ball.  Scared, the camel struggles and trys to break its ropes.

Out of nowhere a Roman Legion attacks, slaughtering the tribesmen.

Time accelerates again, and the conquering Romans build a temple,

placing the green ball in the head of a golden idol.  Then the

Romans grow fat and debauched, while slave-girls feed them grapes.

As the ball glows, the temple crashes down around the debauched

Romans, covering them and the green ball in rubble.

Over the ruins of the temple, a succession of primitive mud and

clay huts evolve into the thatched-roof cottages of a Medieval

village.

A Medieval stone-cutter finds the ball, and mortars it in with

his stones as he builds a water well in the centre of the village.

Satisfied with his work, he lowers the bucket to draw himself

a drink.  Behind him, an  ox-cart comes roaring around a corner.

The axle breaks and a heavy wooden wheel careens along, striking

the stone-cutter in the back and knocking him into the well.

Time advances once more as the Medieval village grows and

transforms into a Victorian-style town.  It is evening, and

the stone well now sits under a gazebo at the centre of a gas-

lit village green.

A fancy carriage carrying a Victorian gentleman passes by and

circles the green.

Moving in through a window across the street, we see a seductive-

looking woman dressing herself in black garters and lace.  This

is intercut with the carriage circling the green, until the

woman, who looks like a high-class harlot, finishes dressing and

leaves her room.  Crossing the street, she walks up to the gazebo

and leans provocatively up against the well.

The gentleman gets out of his carriage, approaches the woman

and propositions her.  She smiles, touches, and teases him. We

pan down their legs to the green ball glowing in the well-wall.

Suddenly red blood begins to drip over the ball, and the woman's

body falls to the ground.  The camera pans up to the well-bucket,

where the gentleman is washing the blood from his hands.

As time begins to move forward again, the man ages and hobbles

away, as the well crumbles and cheap turn-of-the-century row-

housing grows up, covering the green ball.  The town becomes

dirtier and blacker, and smokestacks blow soot into the morning

sky.  Almost on cue, the doors of the houses open, and grim

coal-miners emerge, shuffling through the filthy streets on

their way to work.

The camera pans down to a drain in the gutter.  A rat appears.

Panning back up, the street is now empty.  A bell is heard

ringing, and a horse-drawn Red Cross cart pulls around a corner

and into view.  Masked workers follow the cart.  One rings

the bell, while the others pull corpses from the doorways and

load them into the cart.  The gutters and windowsills are now

full of rats.  Time advances again and the buildings become

deserted derelicts.  Their decaying timbers groan under the

weight.

A support snaps, and one of the buildings starts to collapse.

Falling amidst the crumbling plaster and rotting wood is the

glowing green ball.  As the ball hits the ground, it is covered

over by rubble.

The rubble becomes bleached by the hot sun and the landscape

grows drier.  Sand blows all around, covering over everything.

As the sandstorm clears, the entire terrain is nothing but

desert.  In the distance we can see a group of people walking.

PEOPLE

The people appears to be a band of aboriginal workmen, carrying

futuristic laser-shovels over their shoulders.  They are led by

a goateed archaeologist with an elaborate metal detector.  As

he walks, his detector starts bleeping.  He points to a spot

on the ground, and the natives start digging with their laser-

shovels.

One of the workers finds something.

The archaeologist waves the workers away and directs a tread-

driven shovel-sifter up to the spot.  The shovel-sifter digs

in and pulls up a large chunk of desert.  When the sand has

sifted out, we see the tarnished Loc-Nar in the machine's grip.

It is not glowing.  The machine swivels, and a native foreman

plucks the Loc-Nar from the shovel-sifter's teeth.

As the foreman touches it, the Loc-Nar starts glowing brightly.

The foreman's hands turn green.  He looks at his green hands,

then he looks over to the archaeologist.  Suddenly the foreman's

entire body glows green, and crumbles into dust.

The archaeologist and the natives stare in horror at the

glowing Loc-Nar, lying in the pile of green dust.

NEW YORK - AERIAL SHOT - DAY

The camera comes down from high above the city.  The general

shape and outline of New York looks familiar, but as we get

closer we sense that something is different.  Fires are

burning in various locations below us, and intermittent

gunshots become audible as the narration begins.

Moving down through the skyscrapers, the city gets dirtier and

slummier.  We pass a dead man hanging from a tenement clothesline.

Below us, scruffy children dodge traffic as they play gyro-ball

in the garbage-filled street.

Under the narration, the camera turns a corner and zooms down

through the roof of a parked taxicab.  It stops full frame on

the newspaper held in the cabdriver's hands.  A slow pan across

the front page reveals that the paper is the New York Times,

July 6, 2031

One headline reads: "400,000 Traffic Deaths Over Holiday Weekend".

Another reads: "Venus Declared 73rd State".

The camera stops on a headline reading: "Professor Discovers

Ancient Relic --- to be shown in N.Y. Museum".

There is an accompanying photo of the goateed archaeologist and

his beautiful daughter standing beside a glass and metal case

containing the Loc-Nar.

A knocking is heard on the cab's window, and the driver throws

down the newspaper.

He flips a switch which unlocks the rear door.

OUTSIDE CAB

The young man climbs into the back seat and closes the door.

Harry's yellow Checker cab pulls out into traffic.  The

vehicle looks pretty normal except for some vaguely futuristic

chrome panels cut into the sides, and thicker, deeper bumpers.

INSIDE CAB

Harry slides open the plexiglass shields separating him from

his passenger.

He switches on the car radio.  The music plays as Harry's

cab passes various time-altered New York landmarks; a graffiti

-covered Empire State Building - windows all boarded up, a

decrepit Lincoln Centre, the marquis reading "Continuous Live

Sex Show, Also Inter-Planetary Mud-Wrestling", new ultra-tech

buildings crammed between half-destroyed Wall Street office

buildings, garbage everywhere.

Inside the cab, the YOUNG MAN pulls a gun out of his jacket,

sticks his arm through the opening in the plexi-glass shield,

and holds the gun to Harry's head.

Harry's foot stretches forward and pushes a footswitch.

A buzzing is heard, and the young man's body suddenly

dematerializes.  The gun which he held at Harry's head

falls to the seat beside HARRY, who picks it up and tosses it

into the glove compartment, beside all sorts of other futuristic

guns and weapons.

CUT TO

EXT.  METROPOLITIAN MUSEUM - NIGHT

The camera is close-up on the illustrated banner over the main

entrance.  The banner reads; "Treasures of the Loc-Nar - Coming

July 8th".

We pan down to the museum doors, as a man's body comes crashing

through the plate glass and sprawls forward, cut and bleeding.

It is the goateed professor from the desert.  His daughter

runs out behind him, ripping her clothes on the broken glass.

GIRL

Father!

PROFESSOR

Run!

The girl takes off down the museum stairs as men with laser

guns come out and start firing.  A fat, evil-looking man (RUDNICK)

bends down and grabs the professor's head, jerking it up.

RUDNICK

(to henchmen)

He's dead.  Get the girl!

The girl, clothes torn, runs out into the street, just as

Harry's cab comes cruising by.  She runs alongside, pounding

on the window.

GIRL

(to Harry)

Help me, please!!

A laser shot narrowly misses her and blasts Harry's side-mirror.

HARRY flips the switch, unlocking the passenger door, and waves

her in.

HARRY

(V.O.)

Normally my rule is "Don't

get involved", but something

about this dame got to me.

She dives in the back and HARRY floors it.  The cab screams

away as Laser-shots land all around.

GIRL

(in shock, breathless)

The Loc-Nar ... they wanted

it ... but my father wouldn't

tell them ... now I'm the only

one ...

CUT TO

HARRY

HARRY

(interupting)

Relax sister.  There's a cop

station up here.  You can ...

HARRY looks at her in the rear-view mirror.  The girl has fainted.

HARRY

(V.O.)

Just what I needed ... guess

I'm a sucker for a pretty face.

CUT TO

POLICE STATION

The police station is an all-metal building with no windows.

A plaque on thr front reads "N.Y. POLICE - 52nd DIVISION".

Harry's cab pulls up.  He gets out, carries the unconscious

GIRL up to the front door, and pushes a buzzer.

VOICE

(over intercom)

Police.  Whaddya want?

HARRY

I wanna report a murder.

VOICE

(over intercom)

So what else is new?

HARRY

You gonna let me in or what?

A buzzer sounds and the door slides open.  HARRY carries the

GIRL in and heads across the room toward the main desk.  As

he walks he passes cops using a strange metal detector/vaccuum

cleaner to suck dangerous weapons from a pair of suspects.  Piles

of weapons can be seen in the machine's transparent belly.

COP #1

Okay, this guy's clean - next.

HARRY comes up to the front desk and starts to lay the girl

down in a chair.

DESK SERGEANT

(to Harry)

Before you go any further pal, I

gotta tell you, it's cash up front.  A

thousand bucks a day for a full investigation.

Another thousand if the assailant is caught.

Got it?

HARRY

Yeah thanks ...

He picks up the girl and turns to leave.

HARRY

... for nuthin'!

DESK SERGEANT

(shouting after Harry)

You think you can do better?

Join one of the vigilante groups.

There's a list of 'em outside.

CUT TO

EXT. POLICE STATION

HARRY, carrying the GIRL, comes out of the police station, as

a patrol car screeches to a halt in front of him.  Two cops

emerge, dragging a green alien with four arms.

GREEN ALIEN

I tell you I'm an American citizen.

I just lost my papers.

COP

(to himself)

Goddamn illegal aliens.

HARRY heads toward his cab.

HARRY

(V.O.)

So here I was, stuck with this beautiful

girl.  I knew she was gonna be nuthin'

but trouble ...

He looks around at the sleazy neighbourhood.  Every doorway

and alley seems to have a rapist or thug lurking.

HARRY

(V.O.)

... but I didn't feel right just

leaving her for the sickos.  I

dunno, maybe I'm gettin' sentimental

or something ...

DISSOLVE TO

INT. HARRY'S APARTMENT

This futuristic bachelor pad is constructed entirely of brightly

coloured molden plastic.  Bowling trophies sit on a shelf

underneath a neon "Buweiser" clock.  The place is a mess.

HARRY carries the GIRL in, pushes the light button to "On",

and lays her down on the sofa.  As he takes off his jacket

he looks down at the unconscious figure - her clothes torn

in all the right places.  She moans and starts to come to.

GIRL

Where am I?

HARRY

My place ...

Walking over to a hi-tech plastic bar, HARRY pushes a button

and a machine pours and mixes a drink.  He hands the GIRL the

glass.  She sits up and drinks.

GIRL

(looking at Harry)

They'd have killed me if it

wasn't for you.

HARRY

What'd they want to snuff you

for?

- - -

[Page 99/120.]

