1st Draft  May 8 1991                 Bobbi Thomson

Revised   May 29 1991                 William Morris Agency

Revised  June 13 1991                 151 El Camino Drive

Revised  July 1 1991                  Beverly Hills CA 90212

EXT.   DERELICT STREET   TWILIGHT

Night is falling in a forgotten part of the city.

The street-lights are a joke - three out of four are dead.

Only a large moon and some cloud-streaked stars illuminate this

dark and derelict street.

Once the hub of an industrial area, now the buildings are

abandoned, the sidewalks choked with litter and debris.  Stores

are boarded-up, windows are glassless, walls are graffitied.

At various points, several BUMS warm their hands at trash-can

fires.

ANGLE ON TWO BUMS

street.  Heard OFF is the sound of a smooth and powerful

engine.

ANGLE ON STREET

Down this boulevard of decay and despair drives an

incongruously expensive car - a Range Rover. A rich kid is

going shopping.

The car cruises the ruins until it pulls up outside the only

open store on the block.

ANGLE ON STORE

A dim light bulb shines within - the only indicator that the

store is still trading.  Its windows are grimy, its door

defaced.  Above the door - barely legible through the accrued

dirt of city years - a sign; CARDUCCI'S ANTIQUES AND CURIOS.

ANGLE ON CAR

The side door opens - helped on its way by the kick of an

expensive leather boot - and JP MONROE steps out.

JP is 24, rich, handsome, and spoiled. His hair is slick with

designer-grease, his slim frame is wrapped in a $600 leather

jacket.

For a moment he surveys the store and casts contemptuous

glances up and down the ruined street.  He shows no anxiety at

being in this twilight part of town.  Cocooned in the

confidence of wealth, he's never felt threatened in his life.

Satisfied he's in the right place, he walks confidently through

the doorway.

INT.   CARDUCCI'S ANTIQUES   NIGHT

The store itself looks like an antique - old wood panelling and

shelving, Victorian display cases, and faded wallpaper.  It is

grimy, dusty, and dimly-lit - and apparently unattended.

It is packed with merchandise - shelves and aisles overflow

onto the floor making the place a maze to walk through.

The stock is a strange surreal mix.  Discarded items from 50's

America (Norge fridges, toasters, Frankie Lymon albums) share

space with older items; framed pictures, Victorian automata,

wax dolls, and (a specialty of the store?) items of punishment;

stocks, iron boots, chastity belts, whips. Could that really

be an Electric Chair glimpsed in the shadowed back of the room?

ANGLE ON JP

He wanders through the merchandise, casting appraising glances

at some items.  Some he even runs his hands over - grimacing at

the dust and grime they leave on his fingers.  But his manner

suggests he is looking for something specific.

Near the room's center is an old hoarding from the dead days of

vaudeville and travelling shows.  It is tall and broad and is

leaning against something behind it.

ANGLE ON HOARDING

hyperbolic come-ons to long-dead punters:

YOU WILL BE AMAZED! THEY SHOULDN'T BE ALIVE! FREAKS OF NATURE!

AN EDUCATIONAL SHOW FOR ALL THE FAMILY PRESENTED UNDER THE

AUSPICES OF PROFESSOR EMMANUEL BOCKLIN, TRAGEDIAN AND

MENAGERIST.

ANGLE ON JP

REVEALED is a six-foot tall black rectangular pillar, covered

in beautifully detailed 3-D carvings all in the same matt-black

finish as the pillar itself.  The pillar is extremely bizarre,

as if a New York avant-garde sculptor has interpreted a Totem

Pole for jaded modern tastes.  The carvings are of dead rats,

copulating skeletons,  filigree-patterned boxes, and faces.

One of these faces - recognizable to the audience but not to JP

- is the ossified visage of PINHEAD, the demon from the first

two HELLRAISER pictures.

ANGLE ON JP

calm cruelty and promise of dark wisdom.

A voice OFF startles him.

JP whirls round in shock.  A BUM is standing close to him.

ANGLE ON BUM

He has long matted black hair and a similarly greasy beard.

His eyes are a piercing, excited blue.  Otherwise he is

indistinguishable from those we saw on the street outside

ragged, tatty clothes, features blackened with grime.

ANGLE ON JP

beyond; has this character just wandered in from the street?

ANGLE ON BOTH

The Bum smiles, shaking his head knowingly.

JP nods, still a little uncertain.

JP digs a hand into his back pocket and pulls out a wad of

cash.  Without counting or checking, he proffers it.

The Bum's hand flies out and siezes JP's, pressing the money

between their palms, making the exchange into a handclasp.

In the background, OUT OF FOCUS, is Pinhead's face on the

pillar.

The FOCUS switches so that the hands in foreground BLUR and

Pinhead's frozen face becomes SHARP, as if he is silently

watching this deal take place.

The Bum's hand moves away with the money as we

FADE TO BLACK

INT.   HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM   NIGHT

BLACKNESS.   Voice OVER.

SMASH-CUT to full-frame VIDEO IMAGE image of JOANNE

SUMMERSKILL, standing and looking directly into camera, as if

we are watching a TV broadcast.  In shot behind her is a quiet

hospital Emergency Room - no patients, no staff, just beds and

intensive-care equipment.

Joanne - or JOEY, as she prefers to be called - is 23 years

old, an attractive and clever brunette, with a quiet sadness in

her eyes that she usually manages to keep almost hidden.

Dressed in the stylish but sedate garb of a TV newsperson, she

holds a microphone marked with the logo of her station, W-QQY.

Her direct address to the unseen TV camera continues.

Despite the nature of her last few words, Joey has ironically

kept up the manner and delivery of a newscaster.  Now, she

breaks mood, looks away from the camera, and, with a dismissive

wave of the hand, begins to walk out of shot.

CUT TO WIDE

are in the ER in real time.  As well as Joey, the room contains

her cameraman ("DOC" FISHER) and an ER NURSE.

Doc - a 45 year old with a weight problem, a nicotine

addiction, and a cynical attitude - lowers a shoulder-mounted

Video camera and watches Joey walk to a water-cooler against a

wall. His expression is a mix of exasperation and sympathy.

The Nurse is a middle-aged woman of Asian ancestry.  She has a

puzzled expression as she addresses Doc.

Doc replies but keeps his eyes on Joey as he crosses to her.

Joey sucks angrily at water from a paper-cup and then crushes

and bins the cup like an act of revenge.

Doc is interrupted by the RINGING of a cell-phone he has

holstered at his waist.  He picks it up.

The line goes dead.  Doc looks at Joey.  She heard it all.  He

shrugs apologetically.

With a rueful smile, Joey watches Doc leave.

Joey and the Nurse exchange glances - Joey's impassive but

vaguely friendly, the Nurse's a little disapproving; if the

camera's gone, what the hell are YOU still doing here?

INT.   HOSPITAL CORRIDOR   NIGHT

Joey makes her solitary way along a medium-length corridor

that has two sets of double swing doors at either end, one set

giving on to the ER, the other toward an exit.  Joey is heading

for the latter, her mood sad and defeated.

ANGLE ON EXIT DOORS

Suddenly - SMASH! - the doors burst open from the other side.

ANGLE ON CORRIDOR

The mood is suddenly fast and urgent as a gurney is wheeled

rapidly through the doors.

Two PARAMEDICS, both male, both about Joey's age, are pushing

the gurney at a run and talking rapidly to each other.  They

completely ignore Joey and also ignore the TEENAGE GIRL who is

running beside the gurney.

The girl - TERRI - is 18 or 19.  She is a pale-faced blonde

dressed as if for a Desperately-Seeking-Susan party and is

keeping up a stream of chatter as if rehearsing excuses.

As Joey flattens herself against the corridor wall to let them

pass, it is neither the paramedics nor Terri that get her

attention.  It is the BOY on the gurney.

ANGLE ON GURNEY/BOY

The teenage boy lies flat on his back semi-conscious, his

eyelids fluttering, his breathing shallow.

Horribly, shockingly, dangling from his face and body are long,

heavy chains that drag and rattle along the corridor floor.

There are at least sixteen of them and they seem firmly buried

in his skin.

ANGLE ON CORRIDOR

The DIALOGUE as the gurney is rushed to the ER doors is RAPID-

FIRE and OVERLAPPED, the Paramedics responding only to each

other and ignoring the two girls comments and questions.

Once the gurney has passed her, Joey runs along behind it.

The foot of the gurney slams into the ER doors and the

Paramedics slide it rapidly through.

ANGLE ON ER THROUGH DOORS

The Nurse and a middle-aged DOCTOR are seen through the doors

preparing emergency equipment.  The Doctor already has

fibrillator pads in his hands.

The Paramedics follow the gurney through and, turning rapidly,

push the doors closed from the inside.

ANGLE ON CORRIDOR

Joey and Terri are alone, excluded from the ER activity. Joey

turns to speak but Terri is already halfway to the other doors.

Joey runs after her.

Joey catches up with her a couple of yards short of the doors.

She grabs at her arm to slow her down.

Terri turns, snatching her arm away in a sudden moment of fierce

anger.  She backs toward the doors, making gestures of

dismissal and denial with her hands.

Suddenly, the conversation is interrupted by a shatteringly

loud SCREAM, agonized and terrified, coming from the ER.

Both girls freeze but then their reactions are very different:

Joey turns instantly and runs back toward the ER.  Terri

watches her for a beat and then heads through the other doors.

The SCREAM continues, a howling horrible sound.

Joey reaches the ER doors and throws them open.  And freezes in

terrified shock.

INT.  EMERGENCY ROOM   NIGHT

THE DOCTOR

The fibrillator pads are still in his hands and his expression

is awe-struck and disbelieving.

THE NURSE

muttering to herself and making the gesture of the cross.

THE TWO PARAMEDICS

ANGLE ON TABLE

The Boy is on the emergency table.  It's him that's screaming.

His body is arched tight in shock, eyes and mouth wide open.

He's wired up to an ECG and the MONITOR shows a heartbeat that

should be measured on the Richter scale.

The chains - all still connected to his face and his body  are

rigid and tight, being pulled straight up into the air as if

tugged taut by invisible hands.

The boy's skin is stretched and pulled at those points where

the chains are connected to him and it seems horribly possible

that his flesh will burst if the pressure continues.

The scene is held for a terrible frozen moment.  Then suddenly

the chains drop, the scream stops, and the boy's body slumps.

There is a massive ELECTRICAL SURGE.  The ECG flat-lines before

it and the other monitors go haywire, sparking and spluttering.

CUT TO WIDE

The lights in the room flicker and strobe.

The fibrillator pads arc angrily. The Doctor flings them away.

ELECTRIC ENERGY seems to run along the slumped chains and they

disappear as if dissolved in some impossible electric meltdown.

Lighting and machinery return to normal (ECG still flat-lining)

and the medical staff stare thunder-struck at the dead boy.

For the first time, the other people in the ER become aware of

Joey's presence in the doorway.

The Nurse heads for the doors.  Joey is already backing away.

ANGLE THROUGH DOORS INTO CORRIDOR

face.  The doors close over, blocking her out.

ANGLE ON FIBRILLATOR PADS

CROSS-FADE TO

INT.   CROSS-TOWN BUS    NIGHT

CLOSE on flickering neon light in the bus cabin.

ANGLE ON JOEY

JOEY'S POV - VARIOUS ANGLES

The bus is almost deserted.  Three other passengers - A PUNK, A

BAG LADY, and A WINO - are spread out around the interior.  All

seem lost in worlds of their own but their vacant alienated

stares highlight Joey's isolation and tension.  Fear has

entered her life.

The bus moves through the neon-lit loneliness of downtown

streets.

ANGLE ON JOEY

lost and distant, as if she is submerged in some dream-sea of

memory and sadness.

INT.   TV STATION, EDITING SUITE   DAY

A wall of TV monitors, each monitor showing Joey sitting on a

couch with a painfully thin older woman - BRITTANY VERTUE.

Brittany's probably 50 but her face is as tight and smooth as

surgery can make it.  She is dressed in the standard uniform of

the health-avatar; brightly-colored leotard over black tights.

Joey has a big paperback book - BEYOND HUNGER; THE BRITTANY

VERTUE GUIDE TO HOLISTIC DIETING - which she holds to camera.

She smiles and, turning to face Brittany, crosses her legs.

The image freezes.  And replays.  Joey crosses her legs again.

And again.  And again.

CUT TO WIDE

Joey (in real time) is sitting in an easy chair in the editing

suite looking at the wall of monitors.

BRAD, a techie in his late-twenties, and DOC FISHER are in

swivel chairs immediately in front of the video console.

All three are drinking coffee.  Doc is smoking a cigarette.

Doc chuckles in a half-friendly, half-sleazy way.

Doc leans over and stops the tape.

He swivels his chair round to face Joey.

Joey slams her coffee mug down and stands up.

Joey exits.  Brad watches her leave with a half-smile on his

face then turns to Doc.

He starts up the video tape again and, on the monitors, Joey

once again crosses her legs on the couch.

INT.   UNDER THE UNDERGROUND   NIGHT

CLOSE on a screaming male face, twisted as in pain or fury.

PULL BACK rapidly to REVEAL the face belongs to the lead singer

of THANATOS.  He is on a nightclub stage with the rest of the

band, all of them dressed in that shit-poor-white-trash-on-dope

look favored by all such rich young businessmen with guitars.

A tatty banner across the back of the stage proclaims: UNDER

THE UNDERGROUND PRESENTS THANATOS.

The SCREAM ends, replaced with the roaring thunder of drums and

guitars as Thanatos kick into some thrash-metal.

The dance-floor of the club is packed with KIDS dancing to the

incredibly fast, incredibly loud music.

Many of the kids favor the same look as the band but it's not

exclusive; college types are there too, along with some  male

and female - sporting the glitz-meets-sleaze look of Terri.

The club itself is of course dimly-lit and the basic decor is

black.  Where it is distinguished from hundreds of others is in

the bizarre sculptures and pieces of artwork that hang from the

ceiling and walls, all in tones of black, silver and gray:

VARIOUS ANGLES ON SCULPTURES

A headless, armless torso wrapped in barbed wire.

A pair of male and female heads.  Bonsai-like trees grow out of

every orifice - eye-sockets, nostrils, ears, and mouths.

A human arm with the skin and flesh of its upper half peeled

open and pinned out to reveal inside - instead of bone and

sinew - an entire miniature metropolis, beautifully detailed.

A black bird cage containing a fetal skeleton.

VARIOUS ANGLES ON CLUB

Kids also crowd the bar and the tables on the outskirts of the

dance floor.  It is a hot, sweaty, faintly aggressive

atmosphere - people jostling for position, shouting to be

heard, etc etc.

The camera finds Joey - incongruous by dress and demeanor

pushing her way among the crowd.

The music is too loud and overpowering to hear Joey's voice but

it is clear as she moves through the confines of the club that

she is approaching various people and enquiring after Terri.

FOUR KIDS AT A TABLE

- shake their heads and shrug.

A PUNK

- stares blankly and blinks.

TWO BIMBOS

- giggle, purse their lips, shake their heads.

JOEY

floor and pushes through the crowd to follow.  She taps the

figure's arm but, as it turns, she realizes it is a man  some

70's revivalist GLITTER-ROCKER.  He looks quizzically at her.

Joey's mouth moves and this time she seems to get some

response.  The Glitter-Rocker mouths a name.

Joey can't hear him.  She hands him a business card and a pen.

He scrawls a name on the back of the card and Joey nods her

thanks as he moves on.

CLOSE ANGLE ON CARD

reveal her name and number and writes "Terri - Please call!".

ANGLE ON BAR

who looks at it, nods, and puts it beneath the counter.

ANGLE ON EXIT

ANGLE ON DANCE FLOOR

Camera moves into the tightly-packed throng on the dance floor,

making its way slowly toward the previously unseen center.

The crowd parts slightly to reveal, in the direct center of the

floor, the tall black pillar from the opening sequence.

The pillar is mounted on a plinth and spins as the clientele

dance around it.  It seems very in keeping with the decor of

the club but even so it is a strong unsettling presence.

The pillar has been mounted upside down, so that it looks even

odder than our first glimpse of it.  Near the bottom the

inverted face of Pinhead, black and frozen, can be seen.

The camera begins to spin around the pillar in contrary motion

to the pillar's own movement and, as it does so, draws closer

and closer making for a disorienting, vertiginous image.

As this happens, the raucous sound of the band Thanatos begins

to fade into a whirl of ECHO and to be replaced by a whirring,

spinning, sound which we only recognize fully as we

CUT TO

EXT.   DENSE JUNGLE   DAY     (JOEY'S DREAM)

The screen is filled with dense jungle foliage.

The chugging spinning sound is now identifiable as the sound of

Helicopter blades, one element of a SOUND MONTAGE conveying the

sense and feel of a Jungle War; Helicopters in flight, machine

gun fire, distant explosions, confused shouts and cries.

A POV camera pushes its way through the lush, humid greenery.

The camera seems to be searching for something, glancing this

way and that, shoving leaves and tall grass aside.

Voices begin to emerge clearly from the SOUND MASS off-screen

as if the unseen seeker is getting nearer to his or her goal.

The dialogue prompts a more furious effort on the part of the

POV camera.  Pushing frantically through the obscuring foliage,

it finally gains a clearer view and stops, looking ahead.

In a tiny clearing, ten feet from the camera, still partially

obscured by the jungle, two camouflage-clad SOLDIERS lean over

the prone body of a third.  It is unclear due to distance but

there is a lot of blood on the Soldier's body and uniform.

A new sound joins the SOUND MONTAGE - a persistent, rhythmic,

ringing sound.  The other elements die away until only this is

left and we recognize it as the sound of a telephone as we

CUT TO

INT.   BEDROOM, JOEY'S APARTMENT   NIGHT

Joey jerks upright in bed as the ringing continues.  Confused

and disoriented, her eyes fly around her darkened bedroom as if

she's trying to understand where she is and what is happening.

Finally, she registers the phone and leans toward her bedside

table to pick it up.

ANGLE ON BEDSIDE TABLE

phone.  Its warm green figures show the time is 2:35.

ANGLE ON JOEY

Joey swings out of bed to sit on the edge, much more alert now.

Joey can't resist another glance at the clock.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.    NIGHT

CLOSE on the front door of the apartment as it opens to reveal

Terri leaning against the doorframe.

Clad identically to how we last saw her, Terri clutches a well-

stuffed leather bag, containing all her worldly possessions.

Not waiting for either reply or invitation, she moves forward.

CUT TO WIDE

straight for Joey's sofa and sprawls on it, laying her bag on

the floor beside her.

Joey closes the door, raised eyebrows registering her slight

disapproval at Terri's cavalier attitude.  Her voice, however,

is polite.

Joey walks past Terri and through to her kitchen, from where we

hear the sound of COFFEE BEING POURED.

Terri looks around at Joey's room.

VARIOUS ANGLES ON ROOM

The large and spacious room suggests that even if Joey is

dissatisfied with her job she's at least being paid enough to

make it bearable.  The room is very ordered, very neat, but

stops short of being prissy.

A very large picture window takes up all of one wall.  At the

moment of course the drapes are closed.  Another wall is taken

up by a huge shelf unit packed with books, videos, and CDs.

Joey's obsession with "getting the whole story" seems to be

true of her personal life as well as her professional.

ANGLE ON TERRI

Joey re-enters, carrying two mugs of coffee.

She hands one coffee to Terri and sits opposite her.

Terri pauses, then smiles like she's just realized something.

Joey waits, letting herself catch up with Terri's good-natured

but marginally strung-out personality.  She looks around the

room as if trying to remember where there are cigarettes.

Joey crosses to the big shelf-unit and pulls out a concealed

pack of cigarettes, a Zippo lighter, and an ashtray from behind

a shelf of videos.  We notice that the videos are THE WORLD AT

WAR, volumes 1 thru 26.  She brings the smokes to Terri.

She smiles and proffers the pack to Joey who shrugs, smiles,

and takes one.  Terri picks up the Zippo and sparks it. A huge

FLAME leaps out of the lighter, producing an instant of terror

from Terri.  Joey pulls the lighter back from Terri and closes

the lid extinguishing the flame.  Terri draws a book of matches

from her pocket shakily attempts to light her cigarette.

Joey takes the book of matches from Terri's hands and lights

both cigarettes.  Terri takes a long, fearful look at the

burning flame and then takes a deep, calming drag of her

cigarette.

She lays the book of matches down.  Joey's eyes go to them.

ANGLE ON MATCHES

Black letters on the dark-grey cover: UNDER THE UNDERGROUND.

ANGLE ON JOEY AND TERRI

Terri's eyes flick to the match-book and her mood changes,

becoming subdued and a little sullen.

Terri rummages in her bag, getting hold of something.

She holds her hand out and the camera TRACKS in to meet it.

ANGLE ON TERRI'S HAND/BOX

Resting on her palm is a black cube about 4 inches square.  It

has the same matt-black carbonized look as the pillar and is

recognizable as one of the "carvings" we saw on it.

There is fine filigree pattern-work over each of its surfaces

and, to audiences familiar with the HELLRAISER movies, the box

is recognizable despite its black coating; it is the Lament

Configuration, the puzzle box that opens the doors to Hell.

There is a stubby shard of material protruding from one side of

the box - presumably where the boy from ER had broken it off

the pillar.  Camera favors this jagged shard as we

CROSS-FADE TO

INT.   UNDER THE UNDERGROUND   NIGHT

ANGLE ON PILLAR

VERY CLOSE on its upper left section.  We are looking at a hole

in the pillar that matches the pattern of the shard on the Box.

CUT TO WIDE

The club is empty.  The dim lighting of working hours has been

replaced with the sickly gleam of one or two fluorescent tubes

and the club has that eerie not-quite-right look that all night

places have when subjected to a harsher light.

Two WORKERS are in the final stages of clearing the night's

debris - emptying trash into big black plastic bags, wiping

down tables and bars etc.

Work completed, they head to the main exit.

One of them hits the light switches so that the fluorescent

clarity is again replaced by the more appropriate dim lighting.

The other shouts across the apparently deserted club.

They stand a second but no response comes.  The first turns to

the second and shrugs.

His co-worker grins and they let themselves out.

A beat.  Another door opens into the club and JP Monroe  the

club's owner and the man we saw buy the pillar -  walks into

the main room of the club from his private room at the back.

JP walks out into the shadowed darkness of his small kingdom.

He describes a circle around the dance floor, throwing glances

at his odd sculptures, and finally walks into the center of the

room to stand before the pride of his collection, the pillar.

The pillar of course is stationary at this time, though it is

still mounted upside down.

JP smiles possessively at the pillar - and then registers the

mutilation where the Box has been ripped away.

He leans in closer to stare at the hole.

Suddenly, jarringly, there is a quiet but distinct SQUEAK that

seems to come from within the hole.

JP starts back a little, a small expression of anxiety on his

normally supercilious face.  He glances to right and left, gets

a grip, and leans forward again.

ANGLE ON PILLAR/HOLE

creaking shifting of hidden machinery, hidden chains?

JP's hand moves tentatively into shot, approaching the hole.

Slowly, slowly, it reaches wrist-deep into the blackness.

ANGLE ON JP

VERY CLOSE on JP's face - quizzical, enquiring ... and suddenly

contorted in pain!

ANGLE ON PILLAR/HOLE

pain.  A rat is hanging on to one of JP's fingers, its sharp

teeth buried in the flesh!

JP swings his arm violently through the air, dislodging the rat

with the force of his swing.  A spray of blood is seen to come

from JP's wounded finger.

ANGLE ON RAT

scurries away deeper into the darkness, squeaking furiously.

ANGLE ON JP

ANGLE ON FINGER

VERY CLOSE.  Blood seeps from the tiny teeth marks.

JP's voice is cut off by a strange SIZZLING NOISE heard OFF.

JP's face moves up to look at the pillar.  A look of awe and

shock crosses his face.

ANGLE ON PILLAR

Some small drops of blood stand out bright red on the blackness

of the pillar.  The sizzling noise is coming from them.

Suddenly the drops draw together magically into one large ruby

of blood - already larger than possibility would allow.  Then

it gets wierder; the blood suddenly dissipates into six or

seven little rivulets that begin to run down the pillar.

The streams of blood don't simply fall straight.  They seem to

follow some pre-gouged pattern, running down the pillar tracing

the blackened organic contours of the carvings.

They all culminate at the point of Pinhead's chin - and then

separate again, running over his frozen black face along the

carved scar lines that make a matrix across his features.

When every canal line on the demon's face is filled neatly with

blood, a BLUE LIGHT seems to glow from within the pillar

through Pinhead's face, giving it temporarily the blue tone he

had enjoyed in (un)life.

ANGLE ON JP

CLOSE on his awe-struck face - bathed in reflected blue light.

ANGLE ON PINHEAD

vanishing with it, leaving the same frozen implacable blackness

as before but charged now with a waiting power.

FADE TO BLACK

INT.   KITCHEN, JOEY'S APT.   DAY      (NEXT MORNING)

BLACKNESS

CLOSE ON STOVE TOP

A frying pan sits atop a burner.  it contains the ugliest mess

of scrambled eggs you have ever seen ... or perhaps it's an

omelette.  There are other ingredients in there but they're

burnt so black they're unrecognizable.  At least half of the

mixture lies all over the stove top instead of in the pan.

VARIOUS ANGLES

work surfaces; Egg-shells on the linoleum; A knocked-over glass

of orange juice, the juice soaking into a piece of kitchen

roll; Coffee as black and thick as a mix of Indian ink and

molasses.

CUT TO WIDE

Joey, in her dressing-gown, stands in the doorway with a

shocked expression on her face.

Terri, in an oversized man's shirt, stands by the stove holding

a fish-slice and smiling nervously.

Joey nods slowly, crossing to a cabinet and taking out some

instant coffee.

Joey watches Terri walk out of the kitchen, sighs in relief,

and grabs the kettle.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S AP'T.

Joey sits, drinking her coffee, as Terri walks round the room

with hers.

Terri walks past Joey's TV set (sound down, cartoons playing).

ANGLE ON TV

The Box is on top of the TV.  In the warm light of morning it

seems innocuous and harmless, like just another ornament.

DIFFERENT ANGLE

But Terri has already moved on.  She is by the big picture

window.  The drapes are now open.

Joey stands and walks to join Terri.

GIRLS' POV - THROUGH WINDOW

Joey's apartment is on a high floor and her window overlooks

many lower buildings, giving a view of the city beyond.

On the flat roof of a nearby building, a RETARDED TEENAGE BOY

sits motionless in an old rusty deck chair next to a small

Jerry-built pigeon coop.  Its door is open and it is empty.

The boy is some distance from the girls but his solitude, his

stillness, and the empty coop beside him lend the scene an

atmosphere of sadness and loss.

As Joey tells his story, we INTERCUT between the POV of the

roof and the girls at the window.

ANGLE ON JOEY

Terri shrugs, gives a nervous smile.

Joey crosses to the TV, picks up the Box and weighs it in her

hand.

Terri follows across the room and sits on the sofa.

EXT.   DERELICT STREET   DAY

Joey's Mazda 323 drives down the street.

The daylight street is still creepy but in a different way; No

bums, no trash-can fires, nothing.  It has the feel of a ghost

town, as if nothing has breathed here for years.

ANGLE IN CAR

Joey, at the wheel, has a disbelieving look on her face.

Terri, smoking, flicks ash through her wound-down window.

An evasive silence.

Joey brings the car to a halt outside the antique store.

Terri scrambles out of the passenger door.

CLOSE ANGLE ON JOEY

new and screwed-up friend.

INT.   CARDUCCIS ANTIQUES   DAY

Joey and Terri enter the store.

The store is different, its selection of merchandise reduced.

The 50's and 60's junk hardware is still there, along with some

of the more mundane Victoriana, but it seems more "normal"

none of the odd items of punishment memorabilia are there.

Also, because it is daylight, the store seems merely old,

interesting, and musty, not creepy or odd.

There seems to be no-one in attendance.

ANGLE ON GIRLS

The voice startles the girls and they jump around to face the

counter as MAMA CARDUCCI moves into view from beneath it.

Mama, an ancient and slightly eccentric Italian-American woman

eyes the girls with the suspicion of somebody who hasn't had a

customer in decades.  Not aggressive, just surprised.

Terri removes the box from her purse and holds it up.

A sudden silence.  Both Mama and Joey stare at Terri in

surprise.

Mama looks back at Joey.

Joey smiles.  Terri raises her eyes to heaven.  Mama waits.

Mama squints at the box, as if trying to recognize it.

Mama's eyes scan the store.

CUT TO:

ANGLE ON REAR OF STORE

Joey and Terri approach an old shelf unit along the rear wall.

A shaft of sunlight throws a square of light on the wooden

floor a few yards in front of the shelves.

Joey takes up a big bulging manilla folder from the shelves and

begins to look through it.

Terri, still holding her purse and the box, looks around for

somewhere to put them.  All the shelves are full.  She lays

them on the floor in the square of sunlight and joins Joey at

the shelves, grabbing up the second folder.

Terri opens up the folder and begins to pace the floor as she

flicks through the contents.

Bored, Terri wanders off to lean against another shelf-unit.

ANGLE OVER JOEY'S SHOULDER ON FOLDER

Terri's dismissive summary seems justified.  All Joey sees are

obscure and meaningless case-notes and paperwork.  Each item is

letter-headed THE CHANNARD INSTITUTE.

Joey's hand reaches a large envelope.  Scrawled in hand across

it is the phrase DR. CHANNARD - PERSONAL PAPERS.  Joey draws

the contents out and begins to sift through them.

The first item is a dusty, black-and-white photograph of an

officer in English Army uniform, circa 1920.  Joey blows the

dust from the photo.

LOW ANGLE - ON BOX

from the photo settling next to it.

ON JOEY

The next photo is that of a beautiful young woman.  Joey flips

it over.  Gummed on the back is a type-written slip that says

COTTON, KIRSTY  CASE NO.  5719.

ON BOX

The sounds of the girls flicking through papers is heard OFF

and then FADES as something strange begins to happen.

Suddenly, the dust around the box begins to move as if blown by

an invisible wind.  It is drawn up so that it forms an

impossible spiral in the air.  Spinning like a miniature

hurricane, it hovers over the box.  The sunlight seems to grow

brighter.  Is it just reflections on the metalwork designs or

is the box itself glowing and shining?

CLOSE ANGLE ON JOEY'S FACE

Joey turns another item and her face registers surprise at what

she is seeing ...

The next item in the folder is a Xerox sheet, a reproduction of

what appears to be an ancient document.

It is a diagram, like a designer's drawing or plan.  And it is

of the box seen from various angles.

CLOSE ANGLE ON JOEY'S FACE

Joey turns, folder in hand, to look at the box on the floor and

compare it to the diagram.

Joey gasps.

The miniature tornado of spiralling dust suddenly disappears

inside the apparently sealed box as if sucked down into it.

As if on cue, the shaft of sunlight disappears behind a cloud

as the last particle of dust disappears into the box.

Joey, mouth open in shock, lets the folder drop from her hand.

The sound of its splayed contents hitting the floor alerts

Terri, who walks back round from the other shelf unit.

Terri looks at the dropped contents and then up at Joey.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   EARLY EVENING

Joey is sitting behind a desk.  She has a phone in one hand and

a pen in the other.

Spread out over the desk are various documents - the photo of

Kirsty, the diagram of the box, type-written transcripts etc -

and a scratch-pad on which Joey has scrawled several numbers.

Joey is in mid-conversation on the phone.

Joey slams the phone down.

She stares at the papers, at the scratch pad, takes a deep

breath, and punches out a number on the phone.

This time Joey's voice is different.

A pause while somebody jumps through hoops at the other end.

Joey's voice transmogrifies again; now it's a seductive,

persuasive purr.

INT.   UNDER THE UNDERGROUND   NIGHT

Another night in Under The Underground

Kids dance.

Customers jostle at the bar.

Couples neck in shadowed corners.

Loud Metal music blasts out from speakers next to the various

sculptures on the walls and ceiling.

The center of the dance-floor is packed.

The pillar is missing.

ANGLE ON BAR

Sitting alone at a bar stool - though surrounded by tightly-

packed customers - is SANDY, a very pretty teenage girl.  She

is the same basic type as Terri; blonde, frail, young.  Too

young, in fact, to be legally in a club like this.

Sandy stares at her empty glass - and stares at it wistfully

enough to suggest she doesn't have the money to get it

refilled.  She is trying to keep up a cool impassive face but

her eyes betray her basically vulnerable character.

REVERSE ANGLE

Sitting at the opposite end of the bar, his eye-line confirming

he is looking at Sandy, is JP Monroe.

The bar-stool beside JP is occupied by a TEENAGE BOY who has

his back to the bar and is talking to a GROUP of his FRIENDS.

JP has a speculative, predatory look on his face.  Without

shifting his gaze, he raises his hand and within seconds the

BARMAN is leaning over to hear his request.

CLOSE on Sandy as a full glass is placed in front of her.  Laid

alongside the glass is a beautiful long-stemmed red rose.

Sandy looks surprised at the drink and then smiles in delight

at the rose.  She raises her eyes and looks across the bar.

JP returns the smile.

He turns to the Boy beside him and murmurs something unheard.

The boy glances round, as if ready to argue with whoever is

speaking to him.  On recognizing JP, however, he vacates the

seat without an argument and stands to join his friends.

JP looks back across the bar at Sandy and gestures at the empty

stool beside him, an attractive welcoming smile on his face.

Sandy gets up and, carrying the drink and the rose, makes her

way across to sit beside JP.

ANGLE ON JP AND SANDY

The deafening music playing in the club means that they have to

lean in close to hear each other speak.

While talking, and without taking his eyes off Sandy, JP

gestures at the barman and their glasses.

Two full glasses join the still half-full ones on the bar.

ANGLE ON GLASSES

TIME-FADE

ANGLE ON GLASSES

Now there are six empty glasses on the bar and two half-full

ones.

ANGLE UP TO JP AND SANDY ...

INT.  JP'S PRIVATE ROOM   NIGHT

The music OFF from the club is dull and muffled.

JP1s private room is the size - and shares the general

appearance of - an expensive studio apartment.

His room looks like an annex to his club - black walls, black

fittings, artworks of elegant cruelty - show that JP's taste

for the bizarre is not just professional.

Camera explores the room as the sound of BREATHING grows OFF.

ANGLE ON PILLAR

usual, it looks jarring and impressive but it doesn't really

seem out of place in JP's room.

The Breathing OFF becomes mixed with MOANS and SMALL CRIES.

ANGLE ON BED

JP and Sandy, both naked, are on the bed making love.  Well,

maybe Sandy's making love.  JP's having sex.

It is a selfish, phallocentric scene, concentrating on JP's

concern only for his own gratification.  It may be an erotic

sight, but it's not a pretty one.

JP is on top.  He has hold of both Sandy's wrists in one of his

hands and his body is working away rhythmically.  He is half-

upright, looking down at her.  No kissing.

CLOSE on JP's face - his eyes open, staring down at Sandy.

CLOSE on Sandy's face - her eyes closed, half in pleasure, half

in shame.

SMASH-CUT TO PILLAR

CLOSE on Pinhead's face.  Suddenly, horribly, the monster's

eyes fly open and his frozen face stares down at the lovers.  A

BLUE LIGHT seems to pulse from within the pillar, lending color

to Pinhead's face.

Pinhead continues to watch the love-making until it comes to a

climax.

As JP GROANS out his orgasm and collapses forward onto Sandy's

body, Pinhead's eyes close.  The BLUE LIGHT disappears and the

pillar is just the pillar again.

INT.  MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

ANGLE ON DESK

light blinking in the darkness of the apartment.

Heard OFF is the sound of Joey coming in to her apartment -

doors opening and closing, bags being put down, footsteps etc.

Joey's hand comes into frame and presses the message button.

WIDER ANGLE

for Terri.

ANGLE ON SOFA - JOEY'S POV

The sofa is empty.

Joey looks puzzled and is about to call again when the machine

kicks in.

Joey has her finger on the fast forward button.

The chipmunk-squeal of Fallon's voice is replaced by the

warning-beep of a second message.  Joey lets it play.

Joey stops the tape.

She glances round at the empty room again, troubled by Terri's

absence.  She crosses to her bedroom door.

INT.   JOEY'S BEDROOM   NIGHT

Joey enters the darkened room - and then stops a few feet from

the door.

Terri - lit only by the moonlight through the blinds - is lying

on one side of Joey's bed fast asleep.  Apart from her shoes,

which she has kicked off, she is fully dressed.

Joey approaches the bed and watches her sleeping friend, her

face sympathetic, affectionate, and troubled.

Joey reaches over, takes one of the pillows from the other side

of the bed, and lays it at the bottom end.

She slips off her shoes, shrugs off her jacket, and -

delicately, carefully - climbs on to the other side of the bed,

laying her head on the pillow she had moved.

INT.   JP'S PRIVATE ROOM   NIGHT

JP, on his bed in his shorts enjoying a post-coital cigarette,

blows smoke-rings at the ceiling and all but ignores Sandy.

Sandy has put some of her clothes back on and is wandering

around the room, admiring it and chattering.

She approaches the pillar ... leans in close ... closer ... and

... nothing happens.

She walks on to look at a painting on one of the walls.

ANGLE ON PAINTING

It's a painstakingly rendered but crudely imagined piece.  The

kind of crap you'd buy in a Melrose gallery.

Perhaps it's called Biker Crucifixion.  Night-time, somewhere

rural. A Hell's Angel, arms outstretched and stripped to the

waist, is tied to a tree by cruelly-tight barbed wire wrapped

around his body.  At the foot of the tree his biker friends

party, drink, and fuck, Harleys parked in the distance.  The

crucified Angel's eyes are raised to the Moon.  He's smiling.

WIDER ANGLE ON SANDY AND PAINTING

ANGLE ON JP

Still staring at the ceiling, JP pulls a pained face - like

he's heard this embarrassing shit a hundred times.

Sandy turns to look at JP, troubled by his unresponsiveness.

A beat.  Sandy stares at JP.  JP stares at the ceiling.

JP sighs.

JP blows a smoke ring at the ceiling.

Sandy walks back across the room to stand at the foot of the

bed.  ( And yes, fright fans, this does put her in front of the

pillar - though hopefully the blossoming argument will distract

audience attention.)

Sandy is waving her arms to illustrate her point and, halfway

through her last line, has turned to indicate the pillar.

Suddenly - BAM! BIG SCARE MOMENT! - two blackened arms fly out

from the center of the pillar and grab Sandy's gesturing arms.

The BLUE LIGHT burns from within, illuminating Pinhead's face

as his eyes open, filled with demonic glee and hunger.

An impossible WIND begins to whistle through the room, as if an

echoed glimpse of a storm in Hell.

Sandy screams in mortal terror.

JP jumps from the bed, cigarette falling to the floor.  He

backs away to the opposite wall, face shocked, scared shitless.

Pinhead smiles sardonically.

Pinhead's arms pull Sandy tight against the pillar and his

face, stifling her scream.

JP flattened against the far wall, watches in horror as Sandy,

held tight against the pillar, suffers a horrible death:

Sandy's life-force is sucked from her.  Drawn into the pillar.

Into Pinhead.

It is a matter of seconds only but, in those few seconds -

Her body begins to collapse in on itself, turning grey and

lifeless.  It is made worse by the fact that until the very end

Sandy keeps struggling, writhing in the grasp of the monster.

The wind keeps blowing through the room.

Finally, a dry lifeless husk, she is dropped to the floor.

The Blue Light fades from within the pillar. The wind

disappears.

The pillar is again black and stationary.  But its contours are

different, more rounded.  It looks more organic, as if shifting

its raw material into new alignments, new configurations.  The

pillar seems to be in a process of becoming.  And the obvious

suggestion is that what it is becoming is Pinhead.

Pinhead's head, arms, and torso now protrude from the pillar.

They are not completely free and - now that the "eating" of

Sandy is concluded - seem incapable of independent movement but

there is plainly a lot more of him than there was before.

Even though the blue light has faded, Pinhead's face is

noticeably different.  It is blue-tinged and more fleshy in

appearance.  Capable of movement.  And speech.

ANGLE ON JP

WIDER ANGLE

JP shakes his head in denial.  But he's already a little more

together than he was: after all, the pillar can't move and he's

several yards from it.

Pinhead laughs.

JP shakes his head in furious denial.

Grabbing at his jeans, JP heads out of his room.  Rapidly.

EXT.   CITY STREETS, OUTSIDE CLUB   NEXT DAY

The sun is high.  It's about noon.

Like most clubs of its type, Under The Underground's exterior

is far from prepossessing.  It's set in an old brick warehouse

in a run-down section of town.

JP's Range Rover pulls up and JP gets out, carrying a long slim

black bag.  He glances round the all-but-deserted street and

enters the club.

INT.  JP'S PRIVATE ROOM   DAY

CLOSE on Pinhead's face; in repose, back to its statue-like

state.

The sound of the door OFF opens the monster's eyes.

JP enters, closing the door behind him.

He doesn't look at the pillar.  He stays by the door and keeps

his eyes on the long black bag he has brought in with him.

He unzips it.  His manner is that of a man who has made a

decision and is not about to listen to contrary argument.

JP doesn't respond.  He draws a double-barrelled shotgun from

the bag, cocks it, and loads it.

JP turns to face the pillar, drawing a bead on Pinhead.

Pinhead's expression is wearily amused.

JP visibly staggers as Pinhead lets slip this knowledge.

Pinhead smiles.

He pulls the double trigger.

A massive BLAST resounds around the room but that's about it;

the 30 ott six is absorbed magically into the pillar.

JP lets the useless gun fall from his hand.

It's working.  JP's eyes are glittering with excited interest.

Pinhead raises an amused eyebrow at JP's little joke.

JP cruises the room, contemplating this.

INT.   TV STATION, EDITING SUITE   NIGHT

ANGLE ON MONITORS

Many screens fill the frame, all of them crackling with snow.

CUT TO WIDE

Joey is alone at the control desk.  She has a video tape in her

hand and feeds it into the master machine.

She looks up at the still-ghosting monitors and then presses a

few buttons on the console.

The snow is replaced by blackness on every monitor with a time

code ticking away at the bottom of each screen.

The blackness on the monitors gives way to multiple images of

KIRSTY, the girl in the picture in the antique store.

The video image is primitive, shot with a non-professional

camcorder, and is a simple medium long-shot of Kirsty, dressed

in a simple white smock, sitting in a hospital room.

Kirsty addresses the camera directly, though occasionally looks

up to the side as if speaking to an unseen doctor.

INTERCUT through Kirsty's monologue between: A single monitor

image, the wall of monitors, and the watching and listening

Joey.

Kirsty breaks down into sobs.

QUICK-CUT TO JOEY

lost her father.

ANGLE ON MONITORS

The video image breaks up into white noise and then comes back

in, as if the camcorder was turned off for a few moments.

When the image returns, Kirsty is smoking a cigarette to help

calm her.

Joey's face shows horrified fascination at Kirsty's story.

There is a conviction in the telling which is working on Joey.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

The room is dimly-lit.

ANGLE ON FLOOR BY TV SET

The floor is littered with video-boxes and tapes.  Other tapes

are piled on top of the VCR.  It's like somebody has been

viewing constantly for a week and hasn't put anything away.

ANGLE ON SOFA AND COFFEE TABLE

Many books are lying on the sofa, the table, and the floor.

Some are lying open, most are closed.

Also on the coffee table are three different soft-drink cans, a

half- empty cup of coffee, and a very full ash-tray.

ANGLE ON BOOKSHELFS

Terri is standing by the bookshelfs, running her eyes and her

finger along some titles.

Now we understand the chaos in the room.  Terri's home alone.

She's bored and trying to find something to hold her interest.

She looks away from the shelves and walks idly over to the TV.

The Box is back on top of the TV.  Terri's hand hovers near the

on/off switch of the TV.  Then it hesitates and picks up the

box instead.  Terri holds the box and looks at it.  Her face

becomes puzzled and she crosses the room to flick on a LIGHT.

She wanders back to the TV looking at the box.

It looks different.  Its edges are more sharply defined.  The

shard where it was broken from the pillar is smaller, smoother.

The detailed metal-work has some color back and is shining.

Terri's voice trails off as she continues to look at the box.

She turns it in her hands, running her fingers over its

filigree surfaces.

TRACK in slowly as she cups it in both hands, her eyes moving

from puzzlement to fascination and concentration.

She rubs her thumbs over the designs.  TRACKING IN continues.

It's tense.  Is she going to try and work the puzzle?

Suddenly .... BRRRRRRRRR ... the phone rings.

Terri jumps in shock, nearly dropping the box.

She puts the box back on top of the TV and crosses to the

phone.  She picks it up.

INT.   JP'S PRIVATE ROOM   NIGHT

CLOSE on JP's face as he speaks into a phone.

INTERCUT BETWEEN ROOMS THROUGH CONVERSATION

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

CLOSE on Terri's face - we can almost see her summon the will-

power to refuse.

She slams the phone down quickly before he can persuade her.

She takes a couple of deep breaths and walks away from the

phone.

She looks around.  She looks at the books.  She looks at the

videos.  She looks at the table.  She looks back at the phone.

ANGLE ON PHONE

TERRI

After two rings, the machine responds.

54

The machine BEEPS and cuts her off, leaving the message light

FLASHING.

CLOSE on Terri's face - disappointed and sad.

INT.   TV STATION, EDITING SUITE   NIGHT

Joey is still at the desk watching the bank of monitors.

As Kirsty speaks, INTERCUT between Joey and the monitors.

ANGLE ON WALL OF MONITORS

Multiple images of Kirsty speaking those last few lines.

Suddenly, one - and only one - of the monitors suffers a WHITE

NOISE WIPE-OUT.

Joey glances up at the one ghosting monitor, puzzled - and then

freezes in shock.

ANGLE ON MONITORS

A hazy, black-and-white image (very grainy, like early

experimental TV images) of a thirtysomething man in early

twentieth century military uniform.

The man - ELLIOTT - stares directly out of the monitor screen

and, just as Kirsty finishes her last line ("The cenobites. The

demons."), he speaks (in an English accent).

Another BURST of WHITE NOISE and the image is gone.

Kirsty is back on that monitor, just like all the others.

Joey remains staring at the haunted monitor, numb with shock.

What the hell is going on?

Kirsty's voice plays OFF as Joey stares.

INT.   24-HOUR DINER   NIGHT

A late-night coffee-shop in the early hours of the morning.

Classic American Diner.

VARIOUS ANGLES

Empty booths.

A quiet counter.  A COP perches on a stool drinking coffee.

A TRUCKER in a booth by himself bites methodically on a donut,

his eyes staring off into the vacancy of the night.

In a corner booth, FOUR KIDS nurse cokes and smoke cigarettes.

ANGLE ON TABLE

A black coffee sits by an ash-tray holding a burning cigarette.

REVEAL TERRI

She waits.  She takes a drag on the smoke.  She waits.  She

sips her coffee.  She waits.  She looks up across the diner.

TERRI'S POV

The double doors of the diner's entrance.

ANGLE ON TERRI

She looks back down at her coffee.

The sound of doors opening OFF.  Terri looks up again.

ANGLE FROM DOORS - TERRI IN DISTANCE

A WALKING POV as somebody approaches Terri, whose face breaks

into a nervous, ambiguous smile of welcome.

REVERSE ANGLE - TERRI'S POV

JP sits down opposite her.  He reaches over and pats her hand.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

Joey enters the unlit main room.  She glances across at the

sofa.  It's unoccupied.  Joey puts the light on.

She grimaces at the chaos of the room - the piles of videos and

books - and crosses the room to the bedroom door.  She opens

the door and looks in.

The bedroom is empty, nobody on the bed.

Joey leaves the door and walks back into the main room.

She looks around and then walks over to the phone.  Something

has caught her eye.

ANGLE BY PHONE

A hand-scrawled note by the phone reads ENJOY MONTEREY, YOU

LIAR.

JOEY registers the note.

Joey shakes her head sadly.  What can she do?  It's the early

hours of the morning.  She has no idea where Terri is.  She

walks back to the bedroom and closes the door behind her.

EXT.   DENSE JUNGLE   DAY     (JOEY'S DREAM)

Thick green jungle foliage obscures the view of a POV camera.

The sounds of confused battle are heard OFF; helicopters, gun-

fire, distant explosions, screams of the dying and the wounded

Leaves and branches SMACK against the frame as the unseen

dreamer rushes confusedly through the dense forest.

The voices of the Soldiers - distant, echoed, repeated - are

heard over the roar of battle.

The sound of their voices seems to prompt the POV camera to

more furious endeavor.

It turns rapidly left and right, forcing its way through the

greenery until suddenly, with one last push through foliage

thick enough to be a single bush, the view changes completely.

EXT.  FLANDERS FIELD (WW I)   DAY      (JOEY'S DREAM)

The POV camera (Joey) walks out into another battlefield, one

of a different character.

It appears to be early morning.  The skies are grey and

overcast.  In the distance plumes of black smoke spiral upward

No jungle, no trees or grass.  The ground is baked mud

disfigured with deep trenches, re-inforced by wooden slats.

The atmosphere is post-conflict; guns are silent, there are no

cries or sound of machinery.

Scattered around are corpses of many khaki-clad soldiers.

Nothing moves.  No birds sing.  It is a horrible, desolate

image from the bloody pages of history.  The fields of Flanders

in World War One.

A noise begins to be heard OFF.  A low angry BUZZING.

ANGLE ON DEAD SOLDIER

A cloud of buzzing flies are feeding on the flesh of his poor

dead face.

The buzzing and Joey's anguished cry both CONTINUE OVER as we

CUT TO

INT.   JOEY'S BEDROOM   NIGHT

Joey sitting up in bed, eyes wide, still screaming.

The cry cuts off abruptly as Joey realizes where she is.

She catches her breath and then freezes as she realizes that

the buzzing sound from her dream is present in her bedroom.

Are the flies still feeding?  She glances around her room.

ANGLE ON BEDROOM TV - JOEY'S POV

Her TV set is on.  The buzzing sound comes from white noise.

Joey is puzzled and scared.

She half gets out of bed and then stops, transfixed, as the TV

screen's white noise is replaced by an image.

ANGLE ON TV

As in the editing suite, the image is grainy black-and-white.

The buzzing continues, now joined by HISSING and WHISTLING that

fades in and out as if unseen hands are trying to tune into an

impossibly distant station.

Somewhere in the sound-montage we can almost hear GHOSTLY

VOICES whispering; "Joey, Joey, Joey ... "

On the screen, an English Officer - Elliott - is sitting cross-

legged on the floor of a Quonset hut.

On the floor in front of him is something at which he stares -

something that the image is not sharp enough to show.

WIDER ANGLE - JOEY AND TV

Fear vies with fascination in Joey's expression.

ANGLE ON TV

The image disappears in a burst of STATIC which in turn is

replaced by another image, still monochrome and grainy; A head-

and-shoulders of Elliott, staring directly out of the screen.

A burst of STATIC and the image disappears completely. The TV

is obviously not turned on.  The room is silent.

Joey stares at her dead TV in numbed silence.

She falls back into bed, pulling the covers protectively around

her, staring at the ceiling.

INT.   JP'S PRIVATE ROOM   NIGHT

BLACKNESS

A CLICK is heard OFF and the room is lit, REVEALING JP by the

door, his finger by the light-switch.  He smiles into the room

and walks in, looking behind as Terri hesitates by the door.

Terri moves past him.

JP locks the door with a key he draws from his pocket.

Terri registers this.  JP calms her.

Terri moves into the room, glancing around herself cautiously.

She registers the pillar.

ANGLE ON PILLAR

It's plainly different from the last time Terri saw it but -

despite what the audience knows about it - it still seems

inanimate; a black frozen carving, disturbing but harmless.

JP has been cruising the room as they speak.  Now he's standing

close to the pillar.  Terri is still some distance from him.

A pause - a tense one for the audience who know that JP has

obviously decided who Pinhead's next meal is.  Terri looks at

JP, half suspicious, half attracted.

JP smiles winningly and warmly.  A nice guy.  A nice smile.  A

smile a girl can trust.

The pillar stands behind him, its dark inhabitant still and

silent, waiting for the sacrifice.

INT.   UNDER THE UNDERGROUND   NIGHT

Series of shots (maybe all CROSS-FADED) of kids dancing and

drinking in the club to establish the passing of time - and to

highlight the tension of the scene in JP's room by its

proximity to this (relative) normality.

INT.   JP'S PRIVATE ROOM   NIGHT    (MINUTES LATER)

JP lounges against his wall, smoking, close to the pillar.

Terri is sitting on the bed.  She's upset.  She's been telling

JP about Joey and the phone message.

Terri looks up at him, her eyes vulnerable, on the verge of

tears.  She really wants to believe that he's being a nice guy.

God, the bastard's good at this.  Terri breaks into small sobs

and holds her arms out for him.

Terri wipes her eyes, gives a small shy smile and stands up.

She's walking toward JP.  And the pillar.

JP puts a hand out.  He smiles.  Re-assuring.  Loving.

Terri walks.  Vulnerable.  So in need of reassurance and love.

WIDER ANGLE -JP, TERRI, PILLAR

She's getting closer ... closer ... closer ...

CLOSE ANGLE ON JP

naked hunger in the smiling eyes?  A single bead of sweat?

Some tiny little thing that takes the lid off his game.

Terri stops dead.  She doesn't know what's happening but

suddenly this doesn't feel right.

EVERYTHING ERUPTS!

JP, smiling mask wiped off, leaps at Terri.

Terri flings herself backward, screaming in shock and fear.

Pinhead: suddenly animate and furious; eyes wide open, face

contorted in frustrated rage, black arms clawing at the air.

A furious, confused scene of tension and struggle.

JP has hold of Terri, trying to drag her to the monster.

Terri fights back, screaming her disbelief and struggling and

kicking against him.  They are perilously close to the pillar.

Pinhead is furious - roaring, tearing at the pillar with his

hands as if trying to physically rip himself. free of it.

Slowly, JP's size and strength is telling; Terri is being

dragged nearer and nearer to the demon.

At the last possible second - when it seems it's all over, when

Pinhead's snatching fingers are centimeters from Terri's flesh

- Terri snatches up a heavy ornament from a shelf by the pillar

and smashes JP right across the head with it.

JP collapses semi-conscious at the foot of the pillar.

Terri throws herself back from the monster's grabbing arms.

Pinhead snarls in frustration, hands clenched in fists of rage.

WIDER ANGLE

Terri - safely feet away from the pillar - stands, shaking and

breathless, eyes wide in horror and shock as she stares at this

creature from nightmare.

And suddenly Pinhead changes tack; he slides from the roaring

beast of a moment before to his more usual persona - the glib,

articulate Black Pope of Hell.

Pinhead, as ever, is hitting the right buttons.  Terri, as we

know, has dreamed of dreaming.

ANGLE ON TERRI

Pinhead returns the smile.

JP is on the floor, semi-conscious, bleeding from the head.

Terri edges around the pillar to grasp one of JP's limp arms.

INTERCUT CLOSE-UPS OF PINHEAD AND TERRI

Terri holds JP's arm out ...

Pinhead stretches his own arm forward ...

And JP finally - for one brief second of terrifying clarity -

realizes what's happening.

Too late.  Pinhead's hand closes around his wrist.

Terri leaps back out of harm's way.

Pinhead - with awesome strength - yanks JP up to his feet and

pulls him close.  He stares into the terrified face of JP.

JP is sucked dry by Pinhead.

And Terri watches, her face perversely excited by this - the

first of the dark miracles that the monster had promised.

MAJOR F/X SEQUENCE

WIDER ANGLE

Pinhead, fully-fleshed and incarnate, stands in the room.  At

his feet are the dry husk that was JP and the steaming, hissing

remnants of the pillar like a pool of black toxic oil.

He turns and looks at Terri.  Slowly, elegantly, he walks

toward her.

Terri backs away across the room.  But she backs off slowly,

sensuously, like an eager but nervous virgin bride ready for

her groom.

Camera moves in CLOSE on her glowing eyes and excited face.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

CLOSE on the Box.  A cloud of dust spirals out into the room in

a reverse action of the dust in the antiques store.

INT.   JOEY'S BEDROOM   NIGHT

CLOSE on Joey's sleeping face.  REM shows beneath her eyelids

and she murmurs in her sleep.

Very faintly OFF is the sound of distant music.

Joey's eyes snap open and glance from side to side.  She sits

up in bed and registers the music, which seems to have grown in

volume on her waking.

It is strange, old-fashioned music;  A palm-court string

orchestra playing a sentimental waltz tune reminiscent of the

1920's or earlier.

Joey looks around the room.

There is no-one in the room.

The TV set is still dead.

But ... the bedroom door is open a crack and a very strange DIM

ORANGE LIGHT is creeping in from the main room.  And that seems

to be from where the music is coming.

ANGLE ON JOEY

She's cautious and careful, moving slowly and quietly as she

wraps a robe around herself and moves to the door.

The music continues to play.

She opens the door slowly and walks through.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

This room too is empty.

The music is louder and the soft warm pulse of the orange light

is more distinct, bathing the walls and the furniture.

VARIOUS ANGLES - JOEY'S POV

light;

The sofa.

The bookshelfs.

The TV - with the still and inactive Box.

The closed drapes over the big picture window.

Finally -

ANGLE ON CLOSET DOOR

Both the music and the light seem to be centered on the closet

door across the room.  They're both coming from behind it.

Joey approaches the closet, still tense, still careful.  She

opens the closet door and looks in.

The closet is where Joey has stored her past.  But she's stored

it neatly.

Boxed and piled on shelves are old magazines, old greetings

cards, old photographs, old soft-toys, college diplomas,

clippings from small-town newspapers ("Death of a Local Hero:

Tommy Summerskill lost in Vietnam", "Joanne Summerskill Class

Valedictorian: looks to career in Media") etc etc.

Also in there, stuffed away at the top of the closet, is an old

radio - a big old wood-and-wire-grille valve driven beauty from

which the lilting music is coming.

At some stage in its life, part of its casing was smashed away

and the pulsing orange light is its flickering vacuum tubes.

It's an old mains-powered model and its mains cord dangles off

the shelf of the closet.  This radio isn't plugged into

anything except the paranormal.

CLOSE on Joey; staring at this broadcast from the beyond.

Joey reaches up and brings the radio down from the shelf and

out into the main room.  She sets it down on the coffee table

in front of the sofa.

DIFFERENT ANGLE

Formal, classical framing from a low angle - Joey and radio in

foreground, big picture window and its closed drapes in the

background.

Joey kneels up in front of the table.

She stares at the radio with the same kind of trapped

fascination with which we have seen characters in the previous

HELLRAISER movies stare at the Box.

Her fingers are drawn to the tuning dial as if to a puzzle.

She plays with the dial, moving through various "stations".

Joey's face is open with expectation as she moves through them,

as if she is waiting for clues.  Or instructions.

The music gives way to various VOICES;

An Indian voice giving some kind of commentary.  The English

words "BBC" and "World Service" are heard amidst the punjabi.

(Joey turns the dial)

A tired sad English voice;

(Joey turns the dial)

A resonant French voice;

(Joey turns the dial)

Another burst of music, this time more raucous and syncopated.

A ragtime tune from the birth of Jazz.

(Joey turns the dial)

Dead Air.  An ominous pause.  And Elliott's voice.

Joey shrinks back in nervous shock at this direct address.

The radio goes dead.  The tubes stop glowing.  The room is now

a dimly-lit place of shadow and suspense.

Joey glances back over her shoulder at her closed drapes and

then at the silent radio.

She stands up slowly and crosses to the drapes.  The camera

rises and TRACKS in as she walks, framing those drapes like

curtains in a theater.

With one strong gesture, Joey sweeps the drapes open.  And

gasps.

Instead of neighboring roof-tops and a view of the city, Joey

is looking directly into the interior of a Quonset hut.

It is the image from her TV set though full-size, full-color,

and apparently real.

At the far end, Elliott sits cross-legged on the floor.  In

front of him on the floor is the puzzle box.

Elsewhere in the hut; A camp-bed on which lie a gun-belt and an

Officer's peaked cap.  And an old-fashioned radio - the same

radio that is still in Joey's room.

ANGLE ON JOEY

CLOSER on the elements in the hut, as we (and Joey) realize

that everything in there is frozen in time.  There is no

movement, no sound.

Wonderingly (but carefully) Joey stretches her arm out before

her.  When her arm reaches the threshold of the Quonset hut, it

disappears into the space once occupied by window glass.

She pulls her arm back sharply with an intake of breath.  Maybe

she even takes a half-step backward.

But she can.

She summons her courage, steps over the sill, and walks into

the impossible.

INT.   QUONSET HUT

We are looking at a solid wall.  Then, through the wall, Joey

walks into the Hut, still bewilderment by the sights around

her.

Still the image does not move.  Everything is very real, very

present.  But frozen.

Joey approaches the immobile Elliott and looks from him to the

box and back again.

(NB: Joey's speeches to the frozen Elliott are bravado; her

face and body language betray her awed nervousness at the

bizarre situation in which she finds herself.)

Joey looks back behind her.

ANGLE ON HUT WALL - JOEY'S POV

There is no window back into the apartment, just a fourth wall.

ANGLE ON JOEY AND ELLIOTT

A CREAK is heard OFF.  Joey looks up.

JOEY'S POV

At the far end of the Quonset Hut, behind Elliott, a door has

creaked open an inch or two.

Joey looks from the door back to the frozen Elliott.

Joey crosses to the door and opens it.  She walks through.

EXT.   FLANDERS FIELD   DAY

Joey walks out onto the World War One battlefield of her most

recent dream.  She stands there - an incongruous vulnerable

figure in her nightdress and robe - amidst the corpses, the

trenches, and the distant plumes of smoke.

She glances back at the door of the hut she has just left.

JOEY'S POV - THROUGH HUT DOOR

Within the hut, the frozen Elliott still sits.

ANGLE ON JOEY

wide in shock.

Standing on a hillock, framed against the grey battlefield

skies, is Elliott.

Joey walks toward him.

Elliott stands calmly and smiles at Joey.

A beat.  Joey (and the audience) take in Elliott's impossible

presence, as she and he stand amidst the corpse-strewn field.

He extends his hand.

Joey - slowly and nervously - puts her hand out to shake his.

Elliott smiles understandingly as he releases her hand.

He gestures with his hand and they begin to walk.

Elliott does nothing dramatic - he doesn't clap his hands or

snap his fingers - but somehow, magically, he and Joey, without

moving or changing position are back in the Quonset hut.

INT.   QUONSET HUT

The frozen Elliott is still sitting on the floor before the

box.  The mobile Elliott gestures at his frozen self as he

speaks to the bemused Joey.

Again, no signal from Elliott but the background changes

magically once more;

EXT.   FLANDERS FIELD   DAY

Elliott is once again framed dramatically on the hillock, Joey

standing close.

Elliott reaches out and strokes her cheek.  Gently.  Lovingly.

We see in Joey's eyes that there is a response there.  A

response beyond the comradely.

Joey gasps.

INT.   UNDER THE UNDERGROUND   NIGHT

Lights flash.  Music pounds.  Kids dance.  It's a wild night at

Under The Underground and it's about to get wilder.

The source music (thrash metal) builds and builds, as if

heading for a climax.  And then the climax comes.

ANGLE ON DOOR TO JP'S ROOM

The door BLASTS open explosively from within.  The pieces of

the shattered door FLY across the dance-floor, accompanied by

chunks of plaster and brick from the door-surround.

VARIOUS ANGLES (QUICK CUTS)

Flying wood and masonry hit people.

One chunk SMASHES into the DJ console, bringing the music to a

scratching, screeching end.

Various SCREAMS are heard OFF through the ensuing silence.

In the confusion, kids scramble for the main doorway.  Is it a

bomb?  Is it a street-gang attack?

The Main Doorway SLAMS supernaturally shut, bolts flying into

place untouched by human (or inhuman) hand.

Confused and frightened faces turn back to look at the source

of the explosion.

ANGLE ON DOORWAY TO JP'S ROOM

Lit from behind by blinding beams of BLUE LIGHT, Pinhead

emerges through the doorway.  Slow.  Elegant.  Terrifying.

Pinhead surveys the scene before him and the terrified and awe-

struck crowd look back at him.

For the most part, the crowd are stunned into silence but there

are a few murmurs from them;

Pinhead scans the club.

He looks at the terrified humans.  The cruelly beautiful

artworks.  The humans.  The artworks.  The humans.  The

artworks.

A small smile forms on his face.  He's just had an entertaining

idea.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

The view through the big picture window is entirely normal

again; the cityscape by night.

Suddenly, Joey seems to appear behind the glass - translucent,

like a reflection - and comes through the window into her

apartment, "solidifying" as she steps in.

Her hands are at her head and she staggers forward a few steps.

It's as if the enormity of her trip thru realities has just hit

her.  She falls forward onto the floor of her room, unconscious.

FADE OUT

FADE IN

Joey raises her head, bleary-eyed, and glances round the room

trying to locate the source of the noise that has woken her.

She crawls the few feet to the phone and snatches at it.  The

hand-set falls and she has to gather it up from the floor.

Maneuvering herself into a sitting position, she speaks.

She puts the phone down and rushes across to turn on the TV.

TV IMAGE/DOC'S SHOULDERCAM:

EXT.   CITY STREETS, OUTSIDE CLUB   NIGHT

The images are confusing, with the rapid pans and temporary

loss of focus or light that characterise raw news footage.

Doc's Camera weaves amongst a mass of uniformed people, trying

to catch clear pictures of-what's been happening.

Sirens howl, red emergency lights flash.

It becomes clear we are looking at the aftermath of a disaster.

Or a massacre.

The club building looks like a bomb hit it.  Smoke and debris

litter the street.  So do corpses.

Some of the dead bodies are simply dead bodies.  Others -

glimpsed fleetingly and tantalizingly as Doc is jostled and

bustled - seem to be mutilated decoratively.  In fact they bear

hideous similarities to the artworks that used to grace the

club: armless torsos wrapped in barbed wire; flayed limbs with

machinery inside instead of muscle.

Suddenly, the images are blocked by a very BURLY COP pushing at

the camera and talking directly into it.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

CLOSE on Joey's face as she reacts in horror to what she is

seeing.    (INTERCUT with Doc's footage)

BACK ON TV SCREEN

Doc's camera pans around the area, past rubbernecking crowds,

past shadowed alleys, past Police cars and ambulances vehicles

... and then whips back to an alley in the distance.

Joey's eyes widen in horror as she speaks uselessly to the

screen.

EXT.   ALLEYWAY   NIGHT    BACK ON TV SCREEN

The hubbub and noise has died away.  Doc's camera is advancing

up a very dimly-lit alley.  Hardly any detail can be seen.  The

camera creeps forward ... forward ... forward ...

Then suddenly a barely-glimpsed movement very close to the side

and the camera swings wildly toward it.

The face of Pinhead, almost lost to the darkness of the alley,

is glimpsed on the screen as it looms toward the lens.

The image disappears to darkness, over which Doc's SCREAM of

mortal terror and agony can be heard before the blackness is

suddenly replaced by a station identification card and then a

very harried anchorperson at a studio desk.

Joey has her hands at her mouth in horror.

Joey leaps to her feet, grabs the box from the TV, and stares

at it in her hand.

SMASH-CUT TO

INT/EXT    JOEY'S CAR/CTTY STREETS   NIGHT

Joey's hands grip her steering-wheel tightly.  Her face is

drawn and grim.  The Box is on the seat beside her. She is

driving very fast.

She has to slam on the brakes at a red light.  She pounds at

the dashboard in frustration.

EXT.   THE STREETS OF THE CITY   NIGHT

CLOSE on a terrified face.

The face belongs to EDDIE, a 20 year old runner for a drug

gang.  His head is pressed tight against a brick wall.  His

nose is bleeding and his eye is red and ready to bruise.

A fist slams into Eddie's face.

WIDER ANGLE REVEALS -

An alley.  Eddie is being held against the wall by two

uniformed COPS, one in his 40's, one in his 20's.  The elder

cop has just punched Eddie in the face.

A big back-handed slap from the Elder Cop.

The Elder Cop gut-punches him and Eddie doubles up.

The Younger Cop pauses, looking beyond them down the alley as a

long black shadow falls over them.

The Elder Cop, at the change in his partner's tone, looks up.

Standing in the center of the alley at its far end, light

coming from behind him so that he is unclear, is Pinhead.

He turns back to Eddie.

Pinhead is moving up the alley towards the action.

Elder Cop shoves Eddie away.

Eddie doesn't waste time with questions.  He's gone.

The Cops straighten up and start walking to meet Pinhead.

Pinhead advances- still in the shadows, still just a black

shape moving forward.

Pinhead emerges into the (dim) light in the alley.

Cops halt in shock at this awesome presence, both of them

instinctively drawing their guns.  And both instinctively

beginning to back up.

Well, that's enough of a direct threat for any officer of the

law.  Both cops fire their guns.  Once.  Twice.  Three times.

Pinhead keeps walking.  He spits out the bullets that his body

has absorbed.

They empty their guns - useless - and then they turn and run

down the alley.  And then stop short.  There is a sudden wall

of impenetrable blackness in front of them as if the world

simply comes to a stop four yards from their feet.

The cops turn, terrified, to look back.  Instinctively, they

spread apart - each walking near to opposite walls.

The younger cop is standing beneath a fire escape.  He glances

up as if he might be able to jump up to safety.  No.  Too high.

Pinhead's head flicks upward as if in a gesture of command.

Suddenly, the Fire escape ladder zooms downward with impossible

speed and force.

The Younger Cop doesn't even have time to scream.  The ladder

smashes right through his body, impaling him.

His corpse stands there twitching and shuddering, wrapped

around the ladder.

Elder Cop stares in terror at his partner's fate.

Pinhead stands very still and speaks very calmly.

The Elder Cop's body starts to move involuntarily.  His

movements are jerky and spasmodic as if his mind is trying to

fight what his body is trying to do.

Pinhead's head moves through various positions.  His face is

calm, showing no particular pleasure at what he is doing but

only a fascinated concentration as if experimenting with new-

found skills.

The Elder Copts shaking puppet-like hands draw his handcuffs

from his belt.

His eyes show terror.  Everything else is beyond his control.

He raises the cuffs to head level and springs one of them open.

His mouth suddenly jerks open and his tongue protrudes.

The fear in his eyes increases.

He moves the open cuff over his tongue.  He's making panicked

moaning noises as if trying to scream.

SLAM!  He drives the cuff closed right through his tongue!

And SCREAMS (as best he can).

Pinhead looks beyond the Cop to the wall of blackness and makes

another commanding gesture with his head.

A Chain flies from the darkness and wraps itself around the

other cuff.

The chain pulls taut and then suddenly retracts into the

darkness, hauling the Cop off his feet and dragging him along

the alley into the blackness.

The Cop screams and moans all the way until he is enveloped

into the darkness and then the sounds suddenly stop dead.

EXT.   CITY STREETS, NEAR CLUB   NIGHT

A Paramedic is attempting to hold Joey back.  In the distance

behind them is the wreckage of the club.  They are standing

near the alley into which Doc's camera disappeared.

But Joey has slipped past his obstructing arm and runs on into

the alley.

And pulls to a horrified stop.

REVERSE ANGLE - JOEY'S POV

The scene is well-lit by Police emergency lights.  It is taped

off by yellow DO NOT CROSS banners.  Paramedics and cops stand

around in various states of shock or disgust.

In the middle of it all is Doc.  Quite dead.

The body is kneeling up, its cold hands resting on its lap and

holding its severed head which stares up at its shoulders.  The

camera has been shoved deep between the corpse's shoulder

blades and is angled down as if filming its dead face.

CLOSE on Joey's devastated face.

EXT.   INNER-CITY CHURCH   NIGHT

An establishing shot of a church at the top of a small hill.

INT.   INNER-CITY CHURCH   NIGHT

The Church is in semi-darkness.  Some candles at an offertory,

some others on an altar, provide the only light.

On the very front pew a PRIEST sits, head bent low in prayer.

The Priest is a young man.  Probably a good man.  We're not

really going to have the time to find out.

A shadow seems to pass over the Priest's bowed head.

At first, it seems he hasn't noticed.  Then he looks up, a

little puzzled.  He looks to his right, his left, then shifts

in the pew to look back along the central aisle.

There are rows and rows of empty pews and, in the distance, the

Church door ... which is ajar.

The Priest stands, walks to the start of the aisle, and looks

back along it again.

Silence.  A beat.

The Priest looks puzzled.  We see his mind work.  He's looked

right, looked left, looked down ... How about ...?

He turns right round to face the altar.

PRIEST'S POV

To the Priest, it's an image of nightmarish blasphemy.  Even to

us heathens, it's pretty shocking;

Pinhead in all his dark glory is standing behind the altar.

It gets worse.  Pinhead, staring at the Priest all the while,

reaches his hand to the back of his head and begins to extract

one of the pins from his skull.

The pin is horribly long and, sickeningly, the last few inches

aren't metal at all but some kind of infernal worm - dark,

slimy, and befanged.

Pinhead presses the worm against his palm and it instantly

burrows through his flesh pulling its pin-tail behind it.  He

repeats the operation with the other palm.

He turns his palms out to show the Priest in a blasphemous

parody of Christ's stigmata.

The Priest rushes up to the altar to Pinhead.

The Priest reaches him.  Pinhead's hand is on his throat

instantly, squeezing silence from him.

The choking Priest kicks and struggles as Pinhead forces him to

his knees before him.

Pinhead towers over the Priest.  He smiles.

With his free hand he gouges out a piece of his own flesh from

the decorative wounds on his chest.  He holds the bloody piece

of meat up.

Pinhead shoves the disgusting lump of blue and bloody flesh

into the Priest's aghast mouth.

Pinhead flings the priest away from him.

The Priest lands heavily on the floor.

Pinhead walks forward, smashing the altar aside.

All the candles flicker as if an unheard wind is blowing

through the Church.

Pinhead walks up the aisle toward the semi-conscious Priest.

And all the candles go out.

BLACKNESS

INT/EXT   JOEY'S CAR/CITY STREETS   NIGHT

Joey is driving again.  And this time she's not even stopping

at red lights.  She steams across junctions, leaving cars

swerving and horns honking in her wake.

Something catches her eye and she throws a glance to her side.

JOEY'S (MOVING) POV

Up a side street, atop a hill, is the Inner-city Church.  It's

on fire.

Joey swings the car up the hill.

SMASH-CUT TO:

Joey getting out of the car nearer the burning church.  Off to

her side is a smaller building, the Church Hall.

Joey shakes her head at the desecration.  She has no doubt

who's responsible.

Suddenly, a CREAKING noise from behind her.

Joey freezes in terror then slowly - very slowly - turns round.

JOEY'S POV - SHOCK REVEAL

The Priest - now mercifully dead - is crucified against the

side wall of the smaller building.  Pinhead's nails protrude

from his palms and his ankles.

EXT   CITY STREETS   NIGHT

A SERIES of QUICK CUTS of Joey's car tearing through the

darkness heading back to her apartment.

INT.   CORRIDOR, JOEY'S APT. BLDG.   NIGHT

Joey rushes down the corridor to her apartment door, hurriedly

turns the lock and rushes in.

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

Joey closes her door and switches on the light.  The mood is

suddenly different after the frenzied drive across town.  It's

very still, very slow, very quiet.

Perhaps it's too quiet:  Joey moves into the room slowly,

clutching the Box in her hands and glancing round.  Her manner

makes the mood suddenly creepy.  Is the monster already in the

house?

Very slowly, very carefully, Joey begins to move round her

apartment.  Hardly breathing, making no sudden movements, she

checks her doors.  The kitchen ... empty.  The bedroom ...

empty.  The bathroom ... empty.

Joey stands back in the center of her main room, facing out to

her big picture window.  Slowly, she lets out a big breath and

then draws an equally slow one in.  Maybe it's alright ...

maybe the monster isn't here ... maybe ...

Magically, eerily, slowly, the Box begins to rise from Joey's

hand.  Her eyes stare in horror as it ascends through the air.

Maybe there's one place she hasn't checked.  Swallowing

nervously, Joey tilts her head up and back, her eyes rising up

in their sockets.

The camera tilts low ... low ... lower ... taking in a wider

view of the room and its ceiling and the ascending Box ...

And the audience screams!

Like a spider or a lizard, Pinhead is flat against the ceiling,

arms stretched out for balance, his face staring down at Joey.

Joey throws her hands to her mouth and screams.

Pinhead, angling down feet first, floats elegantly to the floor

to stand facing Joey.  The Box lands in one of his outstretched

hands.  He holds it out to show Joey ... and then suddenly

closes his powerful hand on it, apparently crushing it.

He flings the remnants from him and they land on Joey's floor -

Chunks and splinters of wood, whirring and spinning machinery

of gold and silver, and scores of tiny writhing worms.

Thanks to the miracles of trick photography, the remnants

suddenly come back together and reassemble themselves into the

Box which sits there intact on the floor.

Joey begins to back across the room toward her window.

Pinhead starts across the room.

Joey looks at her window.  It's the normal view ... with the

normal seven-story drop.

Pinhead closes.

She bites her lip, goes for it: in a literal and metaphorical

leap of faith she runs headlong at the window and jumps at it.

The window shatters.

Pinhead's arm reaches out after Joey as if to grab her and pull

her back.

SIDELONG ANGLE

the night-time cityscape beyond the window.  What it doesn't

show is the front of the monster's arm.  That's somewhere else.

CUT TO

INT.   QUONSET HUT

CLOSE on Pinhead's arm, still clutching at the air.

Suddenly, a khaki-uniformed arm moves into shot and grasps

Pinhead's hand, arm-wrestling style.

WIDER ANGLE (WITH OPTICAL F/X)

Elliott literally pulls Pinhead through from one reality to

another - we see parts of the monster appearing and

disappearing in front of the Hut wall as if glimpsed through

tears in reality.  It's like a tug-of-war which Elliott wins -

Suddenly Pinhead's there on the floor of the Quonset hut.

And his other self - Elliott - still has hold of his hand.

Pinhead throws a glance around the Hut.  He recognizes it ...

and the frozen figure at the top end perched before the Box.

Joey runs around then to the far wall - just in time because

now the pyrotechnics start.

Elliott tightens his grip and (with a nice series of INTERCUT

CLOSE-UPS of these two alternative selves) the life-forces of

Elliott and Pinhead begin to erupt.

ELECTRIC BLUE LIGHT begins to play over both their bodies.

It's apparently agonizing, both figures arching with the pain,

both faces grimacing.

Joey watches, wincing in sympathetic agony.

Elliott grunts his answer through the agony.

VARIOUS ANGLES ON THE THREE SELVES - PINHEAD, ELLIOTT, AND THE

SEATED OFFICER

The essences of Pinhead and Elliott - drawn from their bodies

as sweeping, glowing, spitting arcs of BLUE LIGHT - crackle in

the air of the Hut like a miniature electrical storm ...

Until they suddenly lock together in one more powerful arc

which flies at the body of the seated Officer and disappears

inside him in a BLINDING FLASH OF LIGHT.

And suddenly, as vision returns, there is only the seated

officer   (and, at the far end of the room, Joey).

And, almost as suddenly, the frozen scene comes to life;

The radio near the camp bed is playing.

A bead of sweat falls down the Officer's face as he reaches

forward to pick up the Box.

The Officer, apparently completely unaware of Joey's presence,

begins to work the Box.

As the process works through, we INTERCUT CONSTANTLY BETWEEN

1)  The Officer's hands and the movements of the Box here in

the Hut in 1921.

2)  EXACTLY MATCHING movements of the Box back on the floor of

Joey's apartment in 1992.  Moving on its own, linked across the

years to its earlier self.

3)  Joey watching the movements in the Hut.

Suddenly, small patterns of BLUE LIGHT arc across the Box,

shocking the Officer who drops the Box and then stares in shock

and fascination as ...

On the floor, the box begins to open.

The Officer kneels up and leans over the Box ...

And the chains fly!  Shooting up from within and hooking

themselves cruelly into the Officer's face and chest.

CLOSE ON the Officer's face, howling in agony.

CLOSE ON Joey's face, sobbing in distress.  She throws up her

hands to hide the unbearable sight from herself and, when she

lowers them, ...

INT.   MAIN ROOM, JOEY'S APT.   NIGHT

.. she's back in her room. Alone.  Window intact.  Normal view.

Joey stares around, her face a mix of sadness and relief.

The mood now is very down, post-cataclysmic, post-adventure.

Joey takes a deep slow breath and crosses the room toward the

kitchen door.

She crosses the floor without glancing down at it.  Why should

she?  Everything's over.  But we notice, even if she doesn't,

that the Box is no longer there.  But we hardly have time to

register this before ...

Joey opens the kitchen door.

Pinhead is framed in the doorway.

Behind him, instead of her kitchen, is the black space of Hell

- like the Torture Rooms in HELLRAISER and HELLBOUND, it is

full of shadowy pillars and chains.

Joey backs away, shaking her head in shocked denial.

Pinhead moves forward, very leisurely.

Joey's mood breaks and she turns and rushes for her front door.

She reaches it, throws it open ... and screams.

JP Monroe is in the doorway - but he's only just recognizable.

He's now a CENOBITE - blue-skinned, scarred, mutilated, and

decorated with metal and leather.

The JP Cenobite moves into the room.

Joey, now near hysteria, rushes across the room again to the

one remaining door - her bedroom.

She throws that one open ...

And Terri, the new FEMALE CENOBITE, walks out at her.  She has

the open Box in her hand and several cigarette protruding from

different holes in her cheek and face.

Pinhead and JP are advancing across the room toward Joey and

Terri.  Joey only has seconds to act ...

Joey pulls her father's Zippo from her pocket and sparks it up

as she swings it through the air close to Terri's face.

A huge FLAME shoots out of the Zippo (as in the earlier scene)

and scours across Terri's face.

Terri howls in terror, throws her hands to her face ... and the

Box flies from her hands.

Joey catches it, spins it, closes it!

An arc of BLUE LIGHT zaps across to Terri and she's gone ...

Still in one movement, swinging on her heels, Joey twists the

box again ...

And another Arc of LIGHT zaps JP away ...

Joey completes her turn.  She's facing Pinhead.  She holds the

Box before her like a weapon ... and she's got the monster in

her sights ...

His hands are raised palms out.  He's stopped advancing.

Joey holds the Box ready, breathing heavy, waiting ...

(Despite what she's said, we see Joey's face register every

word of Pinhead's reply, every nuance, every promise ... )

Camera TRACKS closer to the Box in Joey's hands as Pinhead

speaks.  Closer and closer until it's side fills the screen.

CROSS-FADE

INT.  MS. SUMMERSKILL'S OFFICE   DAY

CLOSE on the face of the Box, still filling the screen.

SLOW PULL BACK to reveal that the Box is mounted on a plinth

within a glass bell-jar.

PULL BACK continues.  The bell-jar stands on a tall thin wooden

sculpture stand.

PULL BACK continues.  The stand is next to a large impressive

desk in an even larger even more impressive office.

And seated behind the desk is ... well, we can't really call

her Joey - she's far too impressive for that ... is Ms. Joanne

Summerskill.

Her hair is different.  Her make-up is different.  Her clothes

are different.  Everything about this woman speaks of power and

sophistication.

