In darkness, a blood-curdling cacophony:  the squeal

of unoiled winches, the rasp of hooks and razors

being sharpened; and worse, the howl of tormented

souls.  Above this din one particular victim yells

for mercy - a mixture of tears and roars of rage.

By degrees his incoherent pleas are drowned out by

the surrounding tumult, until without warning his

voice pierces the confusion afresh - this time

reduced to naked scream.

And with the sound, an image.

A house:  NUMBER 55, LODOVICO STREET, an old, three

storey, late Victorian house, with gaunt trees lining

its overgrown garden.  Its curtains are drawn, there

is newspaper over its top window.  The titles begin

to run, as we approach the house down the driveway.

We move inside, to the hallway.  The cries are

louder now.

Room by room, we explore the empty house, while the

titles continue to run.  It has been left empty for

many years, though much of its furniture remains,

covered in dust-sheets.  On the mantelpiece of one room,

a plaster saint.  In the kitchen, evidence of life

here.  Opened tins; bread; bottles of spirits; a

glass.

We move upstairs, gliding along the corridor of the

lower landing.  The din is furious now.  On the

floor of one room, a makeshift bed: blankets strewn;

an open suitcase; more liquor.

We move up a flight and approach a room off the upper

landing, the door of which is ajar.  The light

within swings backwards and forwards, spilling into

the passageway.

As we reach the door, the screams from within halt

abruptly.

We can hear a bell now, which has been pealing

steadily throughout this opening sequence.

As we move through the door, the titles end.

The bare bulbs in the room we've entered swing violently,

disorienting us.  There are chains - dozens of them -

disappearing with the darkness of the ceiling: all

are swinging back and forth.  Some end in hooks, with

pieces of skin and sinew adhering; some are serrated,

others simply drip blood.

The bell tolls on.

On the blood-spattered floor, a box, some six inches

square, which resembles an elaborate Chinese puzzle

box.  Later, we'll learn its name and function.

It's called the Lament Configuration, and it's a

way to raise Hell.  LITERALLY. For now, it remains

an enigma.

A hand, its flesh systematically pierced with needles,

reaches down and picks the box up.

In close up we see just what an elaborate construction

it is, made up of sliding panels and mysterious

chambers.  It is open at present, its polished

innards exposed.  Out of it, a banal melody, played

on a hidden mechanism.  The hands, which belong to

one of the demons - a CENOBITE - move over the box.

Delicately, the hands begin to reconstruct the box,

sliding the well-oiled parts back into place, the

tune simplifying with each manoeuvre.

The room is getting darker.  The chains are disappearing

into the gloom.

We see tantalizing glimpses of other figures, turning

from the light and fading into the darkness.  We catch

sight of monstrous faces, but only for the briefest

of moments.  Then they're gone.

The box is almost returned to its unopened condition.

The last sounds to fade are the tune from the box,

and the bell.

It tolls on as the final panel of the box is slid

into place.

The light stops swinging. The panel clicks.  The tune

stops.

At last, a long shot of the room.  At the far end the

window is covered with yellowed newspapers.  There is

dust settling through the air.

Otherwise it is empty.

The bell fades.

It's as if nothing ever happened here.

Except ...

Somewhere, very quietly, a creaking that could be

the sound of floorboards, or the low, agonized gasp

of a thing barely alive.

The wind is blaring as we watch the door of Number

55. From the doorstep, voices.  One is that of

LARRY COTTON, the other his wife JULIA.  Clearly

LARRY is attempting to get inside.  We hear the

sound of keys tried in the lock.

The sound of another key tried in the lock.

The key is turned.

The door swings open.

We see the pair on the doorstep.  LARRY is an American

in his early forties, an attractive man who has lost

his edge in recent years.  He looks harassed; he smirks

too much.  A little, but significant, corner of him

is utterly defeated.  JULIA, his wife, is English:

and looks perhaps ten years his junior.  She is

beautiful, but her face betrays a barely buried

unhappiness.  Life has disappointed her too, of

late: and LARRY has been a major part of their

disappointment.

They step over the threshold.

The door of the Torture Room creaks, as the wind blows

it opens an inch.  From downstairs, we hear JULIA's

voice.

The Torture Room door creaks closed again.

He stands in the hallway, not certain which way to

go from here.

LARRY picks up some mail - circulars mostly - from

behind the door, then leads JULIA through from the

hallway to explore the ground floor.

He opens one of the doors, and looks inside.

He continues along the passageway.  He opens another

door, and steps into a large room.  He opens one of

the curtains.  Light pours in, dust-laden shafts falling

on the sheeted furniture.

JULIA lingers in the doorway.

He pulls a sheet off a chair.

The chair is ugly; old fashioned.  JULIA is unimpressed.

LARRY is getting more enthusiastic about the place by

the moment.  He leaves the room, moving past JULIA

to explore further.

LARRY pauses.  Looks at her.

JULIA shrugs.

She turns back down the hallway. He watches her, then

follows.

We are hearing the tip of a debate they've had dozens

of times, which immediately annoys them both.

JULIA wanders back to the bottom of the stairs.  Then

starts to climb.

JULIA climbs the stairs, her face charged with suppressed

feeling.  She's sick of LARRY; his enthusiasm depresses

her, his compromises anger her.  What's between them

is stale, like this house.

The door opens a fraction.

LARRY has stepped into the kitchen, to find the remains

of the food we briefly glimpsed in the titles sequence,

now rotted and fungal.  It smells, to judge the

expression on his face.  It also puzzles him. Then,

from above:

He leaves the kitchen and retraces his steps to the

bottom of the stairs.

He starts up the stairs.

LARRY reaches the top of the stairs.

LARRY follows JULIA's voice to the end of the corridor.

JULIA is standing in a doorway.  Beyond, the 'bedroom'

we saw in the titles sequence, untouched since then.

LARRY steps past her, and throws back the blankets.

Wood-lice scurry away.  He goes to the suitcase, and

starts looking through it.  Besides clothes there's a

lot else that speaks of its owner: bric-a-brac picked

up in a lifetime of adventuring; handful of bullets;

Fragments of an erotic statue; coins and notes from

a dozen countries.  Amongst the stuff, some photographs.

LARRY peers at them.  One pictures a good-looking

intense man in his mid to late thirties, in bed

with a naked Chinese girl.

At the door, we see JULIA almost flinch at the name.

The 'phone rings downstairs.  JULIA jumps.

LARRY stands up and leaves the room, moving past JULIA

in the doorway, who is left to stare down at the

bed FRANK has slept in, and the suitcase of belongings.

As we hear LARRY clatter downstairs it seems JULIA's

face is close to tears.

The 'phone continues to ring.  LARRY steps through

and picks up the receiver.

There's no answer.

JULIA goes to the open suitcase, and looks at the

photographs.

He puts down the 'phone.  He goes back out into the

hall.

Nervous that LARRY will return and see what she's

doing, JULIA is going through the photographs.

The sound of his foot on the stairs.  Hurriedly, she

selects a photograph of Frank without the girl, and

pockets it.

LARRY is climbing the stairs.

The 'phone rings again.

Mission accomplished, JULIA leaves the bedroom, taking

one last glance at the sweat-stained sheet and the

indented pillar where Frank lay.  A lone wood-louse

crawls over the sheet, navigating the folds.  She

closes the door on the sight.  Downstairs, the

'phone stops ringing.

LARRY has picked up the 'phone.

KIRSTY, the daughter of Larry's first marriage, and

his only child, on the 'phone.  She is barely twenty,

beautiful in an unpretensious way: a dream of a girl-

next-door.  We can't see much of the room she's in at

the moment, the shot is too tight.

We begin to draw back from KIRSTY now, as she continues to

speak to her father.  She's sitting on a battered chair

by the door.  The room she's in is cramped and dirty.

From outside, the sound of trains going by.

That it does.  The place, now we've got a good view

of it, is a total dump.

As she speaks she reaches forward to pull a picture,

tacked to the wall, of a ourangoutang, with breasts

collaged onto it, down.  She succeeds.  Beneath there's

a large hole in the wall, which the picture was there

to conceal.  Plaster falls from it.

She puts the receiver down.  As she does so the small

table on which the 'phone is sitting collapses.  She

covers her face with her hand.

JULIA is three steps from the bottom of the stairs.

A church bell rings.  Off-screen, we hear voices:

two men are attempting to move a bed into the house

with LARRY masterminding the manoeuvres.  We HEAR

their efforts, but we don't yet see them.  Our

interest is in JULIA, who is unpacking a tea-chest

in a room which is still full of draped furniture.

JULIA's face through this has been almost devoid of

expression.  She's holding so many feelings inside;

deep inside.  Now she moves from one box to another,

and opens it to find it full of bathroom bric-a-brac.

She picks it up and goes through into the hallway.

The bell continues to ring.

The three sweating men have the bed wedged in the

door.

LARRY turns.  Sees JULIA.

Nobody moves to get it.  Certainly JULIA has no

intention of being waitress.  She goes to the bottom

of the stairs.

LARRY disappears through into the kitchen.  JULIA

starts up the stairs, watched appreciatively by the

two men in the doorway.  One leans over and whispers

to the other, who laughs.  JULIA glances back at

them. The whisperer licks his lips; the meaning

of the gesture perfectly apparent.  JULIA heads

upstairs.

KIRSTY arrives at the head of the drive.  The two

men are drinking beers.  The bed has not been moved.

She wanders down the drive towards the house.

She moves past them, attempting to insinuate herself

between the bed and the door-jamb.  They watch,

enjoying her efforts.

LARRY emerges from one of the rooms, looking harassed.

His face lightens as he sees his daughter.

They hug each other.

Another hug.

KIRSTY kisses LARRY, and goes through to the kitchen.

LARRY turns back to the door.  The men have been

watching KIRSTY.  LARRY clearly dislikes the scrutiny.

1ST MAN, out-stared by LARRY, looks away.  The 2ND

MAN is unperturbed.

2ND MAN's grin fades.

The kitchen is chaotic.  Cutlery, crockery, utensils,

pans and foodstuffs have been heaped on every

available surface.  KIRSTY has found the kettle,

but is having difficulty turning on the tap.  She

struggles with it.  No joy.  Just a rattling sound

in the pipes as the system lurches into action.

The pipes rattle and chug behind the plaster.  The

CAMERA moves along the corridor, hugging the wall.

At the end of the corridor stands JULIA, in a

patch of sunlight.  She has the photograph of FRANK

in her hands.

She looks intently at it.

A CLOSE-UP of the photograph.  Then FRANK's voice.

JULIA looks up from the photograph.

A front door opens.  On the step of another house

stands FRANK, with two suitcases.  It's raining

outside; HARD.  The rain has plastered his hair to

his scalp, which only emphasizes his raw good looks.

He's unshaven; his eyes are dark, and intense.

Again, the line she remembers:

The splash of rain on the step becomes a spurt of

water, as we

the present day.

The tap has come on suddenly, spraying KIRSTY with

water.  She jumps back, soaked.

She reaches to turn the pressure down.

The men are struggling with the bed again.

Again, JULIA returns her gaze to the photograph.

The same scene:  FRANK in the doorstep.  Now we

the person who opened the door.  It's JULIA; a younger

JULIA, her hair arranged differently, her clothes

brighter.  It is two weeks before her marriage to

LARRY.  She looks at the man on the doorstep without

a trace of recognition on her face.

He looks at her, eyes glittering.  His hold on her

is almost mesmeric.

There is going to BE a wedding?

He steps inside.  Now he is close to her, rain running

down his face.  We can hear his breath; sense the

almost intimidating intimacy of his presence.

JULIA stares down at the photograph.  Off scrren,

KIRSTY's voice:

JULIA looks up.  At the top of the stairs, KIRSTY

soaked from the tap.  JULIA looks up, and hurriedly

pockets the photograph.

KIRSTY ducks into the bathroom.  We

JULIA.  It's clear the memory of her first meeting

with FRANK has affected her deeply.  The tears that

threatened earlier are close.

KIRSTY has unbuttoned her blouse and is drying herself.

Silence from outside.

JULIA has gone.

The door of the Torture Room is pushed open.  JULIA

steps inside.

KIRSTY hears the creak of footsteps on the boards

above.  JULIA's behaviour puzzles her, but she's

not about to waste time thinking too hard about it.

She starts downstairs again.

We have an odd, hovering point of view of JULIA,

as she steps inside the room.  Something about the

atmosphere distresses her.

There is a scratching sound.  She looks down.  A

wood-louse, recalling Frank's foresaken bed, crawls

along the edge of the skirting board.  She crosses

to the window, and tears away a little spy-hole

in the aged newspaper.

From downstairs, the voices of the bed-movers.

The light through the window falls on her eye.

The screen becomes a white-out, from which emerges:

A bedroom, with afternoon sunlight pouring between

the slats of bamboo blinds.  Outside we can hear

children playing summer games.  Inside, a fly buzzes.

JULIA, the younger self, is holding her wedding

dress in front of her, displaying it.

JULIA lets the dress drop a few inches in front

of her.  She stares at FRANK.

Still she doesn't let the 'defence' that the dress

offers - a reminder of her imminent marriage - fall.

She stares though, and there's an invitation in her

eyes.

Now we

FRANK.  He is not so beraggled as in the first scene,

but the heat of the day has brought a sheen of sweat

to his face.  Standing half in shadow he looks almost

dangerous.

Now JULIA lets the dress drop, putting it on the

bed behind her.

FRANK steps towards her.

FRANK takes hold of her.  She doesn't resist him,

though there is barely disguised fear on her face.

He puts his hand inside her blouse.

In extreme CLOSE UP, JULIA blinks into the light

through the window, as LARRY's voice from downstairs

calls her from her reverie.

Again, a white-CUT, from which emerges:

The two are naked on the bed, both sweating now.

Beneath them, the wedding dress, crushed under their

weight.

Their love-making is not straight-forward: there is

an element of erotic perversity in the way FRANK

licks at her face, almost like an animal, his hold

on her too tight to be loving.  The sequence

escalates into a series of strange details from

their locked bodies.  Nails digging into palms;

sweat rivulets running down their torsoes.  And

once in a while we see their faces.  JULIA watching

FRANK, mesmerized and amused by his intensity;

FRANK almost pained by his desire to push the

experience TO THE LIMIT.  Their passion is rendered

stranger still by the way the light through the window

falls on their bodies, making striped creatures of them.

At last, as their urgency increases, we move up

until we're looking directly down on the bed.

From here it is JULIA's face we can see, and the

ecstasy of the moment has seized her.  Her arms

are flung up over her head; her eyes are closed

as she murmurs:

The scene whites out.

JULIA is still staring into the light.  She sobs, very

quietly.

Downstairs, LARRY and the men have moved the bed

across the hall to the bottom of the stairs.

All three are weary now, and getting careless.

As they start up the stairs we see trouble ahead

for LARRY, whose hand is moving closer and closer

to a nail proturbing from the woodwork of the

bannister.

He backs towards the stairs - and the nail.

The side of his hand is impaled bythe nail.  He cries

out.  The weight of the bed, which he cannot relinquish,

drives the nail deeper, and gouges a long cut from

the ball of his thumb to his wrist.  Blood pours out.

He drops his edge of the bed, and disengages his hand

from the nail upon which he's injured himself.  He

lifts his hand, from which blood is pouring.

LARRY isn't listening.  He's looking at the wound

in his hand.  He hates the sight of his own blood.

Any moment, he may faint.

But not in front of these bastards.  He turns and

starts up the stairs, groggier by the moment.

JULIA is standing in the middle of the room.  A single

dart of light, through the hole she tore in the

newspaper, strikes her face.  Softly on the soundtrack,

the scrabbling noise of the woodlice.

The bed has been put down.  1ST MAN and 2ND MAN are

putting on their coats.  KIRSTY comes through from

the kitchen.

2ND MAN takes a sheet of paper from his jacket.

LARRY, his hand running with blood, climbs the last

flight of stairs.

JULIA hears him, and turns from her silent communing with

the room.  She crosses towards the door.  Too late.

It opens.  LARRY steps inside, blood pouring from

his right hand, which he attempts to staunch with his

left hand.

Blood has started to drip, unnoticed by either of them,

onto the bare boards.  Heavy splashes.

LARRY looks sick; his face clammy with sweat.  She stares

at him without a trace of feeling for him on her face.

She goes to him.  He looks away as she unglues one hand

from the other, and looks at the wound.  Blood comes faster,

hitting the floor between them.

The blood keeps hitting the floor.  Slap; slap; slap.

He is again clamping his hand over the wound, as JULIA

helps him to the door.  They leave the Torture Room.

We hear their voices receding down the passageway,

as we again assume that hovering view point.  The

floor, is heavily spattered with blood.

KIRSTY is half way up the stairs, as JULIA and LARRY

head down.

KIRSTY heads back to the kitchen.  JULIA helps LARRY

towards the front door.

The CAMERA swings away from them, upstairs, and

begins to track ...

LAP-DISSOLVE TO:

INT.   UPPER LANDING   DAY

... we continue to track, towards the Torture Room.

Downstairs, the front door slams.

LAP-DISSOLVE TO:

INT.   TORTURE ROOM   DAY

From outside, the sound of a car door slamming.  An

engine starts.  The car drives away.

We move towards the blood on the floor.  As we watch,

it begins to disappear, as if being absorbed by the

room.  We pan up to the wall.  The plaster is not

quite smooth; indeed, it now begins to grow restless,

and cracks.  Something begins to move in the wall ...

An explosion of laughter.  We

the remains of a rack of lamb, its gravy now congealed,

scraps of meat adhering to the bone here and there.

This is the centre-piece of a table reduced to a

battlefield by the guests who are laughing off-screen.

We pass along the table, taking in dirty plates and

cutlery, napkins, glasses and emptied wine bottles.

Finally, we reach JULIA, who is still sitting at the

table, while the others have retired to more comfortable

seats.  She looks utterly miserable, and a little

drunk.

The room has been spruced up for the party.  Candles

are burning on tables and mantelpiece, there are

pictures on the walls.  But this is essentially

cosmetic.  The place has not been refurnished or re-

decorated.

We move to the party guests.  Two, we recognize:

KIRSTY, and LARRY - who is presently entertaining

the gathering with an account of his accident.  The

others are new faces.  An American couple:  BILL

UNDERWOOD and his wife EVELYN, who are of an age with

LARRY, and a younger, bespectacled man - a work

colleague of LARRY's - STEVE O'DONNELL.  All are drunk.

A brandy bottle sits on the table between them, and

half a dozen other liquer bottles besides.  STEVE,

it soon becomes apparent, has his eyes on KIRSTY.

LARRY is half-way through his hospital story,

gesticulating wildly as he goes through the tale,

much to the pleasure of the rest.  His hand and

lower arm are heavily bandaged.

We

JULIA, who watches her husband, unamused.

Gales of laughter at this.

LARRY fills up her glass.

STEVE picks up the bottle.

He fills up KIRSTY's glass.

She casts him a sly glance.  He smiles.  She smiles.

JULIA now stands up.

JULIA nods.

He stands.

JULIA looks frosty, but LARRY does not catch the look.

KIRSTY does however.  BILL sits down.

There's a chorus of approval.  JULIA puts a smile on.

She exits, to a chorus of goodnights.  KIRSTY in

particular watches her as she makes her exit.  JULIA's

behaviour confounds her.  Meanwhile, the conversation

has returned to LARRY's 'wound'.

This wins another round of laughter.

JULIA walks along the landing, while the laughter - muted

by distance - wafts up from below.

From the floor above, she hears something more.

She stops, puzzled, then starts up the second flight

of stairs towards the Torture Room.

She approaches the Torture Room, and steps inside.

The sound of laughter is considerably dimmed in here;

it's barely audible.  But there is another sound, a

shifting sound in the corner of the room.

She reaches for the light switch, and turns it on.

The bulb's been broken however.  She stares around

the room, trying to make sense of the shadows.

Nervously, she approaches the wall, on which four

streaks of light from the window fall.  Now she

looks towards the window and realizes that the

newspaper has been torn, as if by four fingers.  Her

breath catches.  Suddenly, she's afraid.

She stands absolutely still, eyes wide in the gloom.

On the far side of the room, a movement in the shadows.

JULIA almost retreats, but something keeps her staring

into the murk, as SOMETHING - the remnants of a human

form made of twisted, blistered strands of flesh,

raises its head.  It's squatting against the wall,

unable to lift itself into a standing position.  Its

eyes, however, have life in them: and hunger. This,

though he's unrecognizable, is FRANK.

She looks away.

JULIA's face registers horror and disbelief.

From downstairs, dimly, laughter.

LARRY has just told another story.  General drunken

laughter.  KIRSTY stands up.

She staggers a little bit.

Further hysteria.

She steps out into the hallway.

She starts up the stairs.  She smiles to herself,

thinking of STEVE.

FRANK, in the corner of the room, watches JULIA, who is

still at the door.

The sound of KIRSTY downstairs, closing the bathroom

door.

JULIA's lace as she stares at FRANK once more.  She

is appalled at the choice before her.

KIRSTY smiles at herself in the bathroom mirror, turns

off the tap, opens the door and steps out onto the

landing.

She takes a step along the landing, then realizes

that there's somebody ahead of her, in the darkness.

She stops.  From the floor above, a soft sigh.

JULIA moves out of shadow into a patch of patterned

light splashing up the stair well.The effect recalls

her memory of her lovemaking with FRANK.  The light

makes her look strange; ominous.

JULIA doesn't smile

Do we read murder in JULIA's eyes?  KIRSTY is uneasy.

Suddenly, a voice from the floor below.

KIRSTY is relieved at the interruption.

JULIA is left on the landing, as KIRSTY heads downstairs.

The station is deserted, but for KIRSTY and STEVE,

who are sitting, waiting for the last train.

KIRSTY and STEVE are walking.

STEVE stops walking.

KIRSTY has turned to look at him.  Both of them are

aware where the banter is leading; smiles play on

their faces as they speak.

He kisses her, with considerable feeling.

LARRY snores loudly.  JULIA lies beside him, wide

awake, staring at the ceiling.

LARRY turns over, muttering to himself.

The door opens.  JULIA is standing there, in her

night-gown.

FRANK raises his wretched head.

JULIA stares at the thing moving in the shadow.

The door opens.   JULIA steps out of the house, and

starts towards the street.      As she does so,

she glances round.

We approach the window, knowing that FRANK watches

behind it.

JULIA heads off down the street.

The din of a lunchtime restaurant, with all the tables

full, and everyone hungry.   In the middle of the

melee, KIRSTY is valiantly trying to do six things

at once.  Somebody wants their order taken;  somebody

else wants more lager;  somebody else is complaining.

She's doing her best, but losing the battle.  She

serves a table with their food, and then starts back

to pick up another order.   As she does so she's

harangued from every side.

KIRSTY starts back to the counter.  As she does so

somebody else's voice cuts through the din.

She wheels round.

He grins.  She grins.

By contrast, a quiet bar.   Discreet music;  a well-dressed

clientele.  Several couples occupy booths.  Other solitary

drinkers are at the bar.

Amongst them:   JULIA.

Now we see her more closely, we realize she's gone to some

considerable effort to make herself ravishing.  There's

nothing crude about the change;  it's a subtle transformation

which shows off her considerable beauty.  She drinks soda

water.

She has an admirer.   Sitting alone at one of the tables

is a middle-aged man by the name of PRUDHOE, a nervous,

slightly paunchy individual.  She glances over at him. His

eyes don't leave her for a moment.  He's trying his best

to get the courage to approach her.

She looks away, and concentrates on her drink.  Now she

takes out a cigarette, fumbling for it. Her hands are

trembling slightly.  She lights the cigarette, draws on

it, and as she does so she seems to make up her mind that

she's not the equal of it.  She stubs the cigarette out,

puts cash on the bar for her drinks, and gets up to leave.

Suddenly, PRUDHOE's at her side.

He's so nervous he can barely speak.

JULIA looks at him.  He seems to almost be offering

himself to her.   There's a long pause, while she tries

to make up her mind. Then:

She smiles.   The smile works wonders.  PRUDHOE's nerves

diminish somewhat.  JULIA's simply increase, now that

she's committed herself.  Again, she opens the pack of

cigarettes, as PRUDHOE calls the BARMAN over.

He stares at her, not certain he interprets her correctly.

She stares back.  Then: the tiniest of smiles, which he

- scarcely believing his luck - returns.

The CAMERA moves across the room. We can hear FRANK's

ragged breathing, and as we move in we see, on the floor

beside him, the box - the Lament Configuration - its

sides gleaming.  FRANK, still squatting on the floor,

taps a tattoo on the bare boards with his skeletal fingers.

Then, voices outside:  JULIA laughs.

He raises his head.

JULIA opens the front door.  She is still very nervous,

fumbling with the keys.  PRUDHOE stands a pace behind her.

They step inside.   JULIA closes the door

He approaches her:  his gestures made slightly clumsy by

the alcohol he's drunk.  He kisses her.  She presses him off

her.

FRANK's view, from the corner of the room.  We hear the

sound of JULIA and PRUDHOE's approach up the stairs.

JULIA opens the door.

She steps inside.  PRUDHOE does as he's instructed.  He

stares at the bare floor, as JULIA closes the door behind

him.

JULIA moves towards him

She slips the knot of his tie.  We can hear her pulse on

the soundtrack.  She glances over PRUDHOE's shoulder.  He

follows her gaze, but she diverts him with a peck on the

cheek.

PRUDHOE, now starts to shed his jacket and trousers, trying

not to take his eyes off JULIA for an instant.

We watch from FRANK'S P.O.V. as he drops his underwear.

He still wears his shirt, which he starts to unbutton.

We move back into a tighter shot.

JULIA smiles.

PRUDHOE stops unbuttoning his shirt.

She steps out of the way so that he can cross to the door.

As he moves to the door, she throws a piece of cloth off

a hammer, which lies beside the wall.  PRUDHOE takes

hold of the door handle.  Turns it:  it's stuck.

Before he can turn she hits him on the back of the head.

He doesn't fall, but the blow sends blood down the back

of his shirt.   To avoid the following blow he stumbles

blindly towards the wall but JULIA's not going to be

stopped now.  He holds the back of his head - dazed,

apologetic, pitiful - while she moves towards him.

She eclipses him.

She raises the hammer.

She strikes him.  He slides down the wall, his jaw

broken, blood pouring from his face.   He twitches.  Then

the twitches stop.

She drops the hammer, and stares down at the corpse.

The room sighs.   In the corner, FRANK's shadowy form

leans forward.

JULIA backs towards the door, as the broken, skeletal

form crawls out of darkness to claim its sustenance.

JULIA steps out onto the landing and leans against the

wall, waves of sheer relief breaking over her.

In the room behind her, terrible sounds of feeding.

JULIA steps into the bathroom, and looks at herself in

the mirror.   Blood is spattered on her face;  her hands

are similarly stained.  She is trembling from head to

foot.

Stripping off her blouse, and flinging it over the side

of the bath, she douses her face, neck and breasts with

cold water.  Then she stares up at her face again,

examining it.  She can scarcely believe what she's done.

She crosses the landing and climbs the stairs to the

Torture Room.

She opens the door.

As she does so FRANK retreats into the shadows.  We are

granted a fleeting glimpse of him, his body fuller than

before, but still horribly vulnerable.

JULIA looks at PRUDHOE's corpse.  A trail of blood leads

away from it into the darkness.  The body itself is a

grotesquely misshapen husk now, the muscle and fat

withered, the eyes sunk into the skull, the lips drawn

back to expose the gums. A ghostly sight.

JULIA looks across at FRANK, who is no longer sitting,

but standing in the shadows.

She doesn't reply.

He stretches his arm into a passage of light.  His flesh

glistens and pulses.

He turns his arm over for her appreciation.

She nods.

She stares, unable to move.

Still she doesn't move.

She takes a step towards his outstretched arm.   His

fingers touch her face.  She steels herself against them.

Now, he starts to trace the line of her jaw, stroking

her.  Now her lips, caressingly.

Suddenly, a sound from downstairs.  The front door is

opened.

JULIA withdraws from his touch

Shot from the stairs of LARRY.  He looks up the flight.

He takes a step towards the stairs.

JULIA takes a step backwards, her foot hitting PRUDHOE's

corpse.

LARRY is still at the bottom of the stairs.

For a moment it looks as though he's going to climb the

stairs, then he thinks better of it, and goes through

to the back of the house.

JULIA has wrapped the corpse of PRUDHOE up in its clothes

and is now lifting it.  The body is lighter now, having

been drained of nourishment.  Its head lolls back and its

dentures drop out, hitting the floor loudly.  She freezes.

No sound from below.  She backs out of the room with her

burden.

FRANK's arm reaches for the fallen dentures and peers at

them.

Soft laughter from the darkness.

JULIA pushes the door of the Junk Room, which is on the

upper landing, open.  Inside, a chaos of tea-chests and

bric-a-brac.  She lays the body down.

LARRY has come through to look for JULIA.  He hears a

noise above.   He looks up.

He leaves the kitchen.

Again, LARRY Steps into the hallway, and gazes up the

stairs.

He starts up.

JULIA steps into the bathroom, and then locks the door

behind her.

LARRY ascends to the top of the stairs.

He tries the door.  It's locked.

JULIA, still trembling, sits on the edge of the bath.

She listens as his footsteps recede down the landing and

stairs.    Then she crosses to the mirror and tries to

erase the signs of panic.  She puts a comb through her

hair, and adjusts her blouse.  That done, she unbolts the

door and steps out into the landing.  She doesn't go down

however, but UP,  back to the Torture Room.

She opens the door.

A crunching sound in the shadows.  FRANK's hand opens,

dropping the pieces of PRUDHOE's dentures, which he has

crushed, onto the floor, in a rain of plastic teeth.

JULIA's face registers no horrer at this.

From downstairs, LARRY.

JULIA crosses to the door and calls down.

She returns to her conversation with FRANK.

She crosses to close the door.   When she turns round,

he's in front of her, silhouetted against the window,

his half-formed face terrifying in the gloom.  Suddenly

he reaches out and catches hold of her arm.  She gasps

in pain.

He lets go of her.

She goes to the door, and leaves him, locking it behind

her.

We move close to FRANK's face.   He licks his skinned

lips with a bloody tongue.  Thunder rolls.

The thunder carries over to a dream.

We are in the Dining Room of Number 55, except that

everything is once more shrounded in sheets.

We CUT to KIRSTY, moving through the room, her face pale,

her hair glued to her forehead with sweat.

Somewhere, a bell is ringing.  Flies buzz.  On the

dinner table, a form is covered in a sheet.  It's clear

that the shape is human.  She reaches the table, and

looks at the body.

Suddenly, blood begins to seep through the shroud, beginning

at the head - eyes and mouth - then spreading across the

body.  There are sobs beneath the shroud.

She reaches for it, to snatch it off the body.

The blood has almost turned the sheet scarlet.

She pulls.

We glimpse only a moment of what'd beneath: a naked

body, scarlet and shining with blood from head to foot.

She screams.

Her scream becomes louder, as we

STEVE sits bolt upright in bed, while KIRSTY yells.

The sheet is snatched off him.  He looks across the room

to see KIRSTY at the end of the bed, with the sheet in

her hand.

KIRSTY's eyes are still closed.

Her eyes open.  She looks down at the sheet she's snatched

from the bed, and drops it in horror.

KIRSTY, weak with fear, just shakes her head.

A phone is ringing.

LARRY crosses the hallway, bleary-eyed, and disappears

from sight.   The phone is picked up.

JULIA lies in bed, the pillow empty beside her.   She's

wide awake, staring at the ceiling.   Downstairs, the

murmur of LARRY's voice.

FRANK stands in the corner of the room, breathing softly

in the shadows.

LARRY is on the phone.

KIRSTY is on the phone.   STEVE sits up in bed, having

reclaimed the sheet.

LARRY puts down the phone.

LARRY returns to the bedroom.

He goes into the bedroom.

We PAN up the second flight of stairs.

FRANK is sitting at the top, in the shadows.

The front door is closed by JULIA.   A man stands in

the hallway:  another VICTIM.   He is as nervous as

PRUDHOE.

A shock CUT to the naked VICTIM, thrown back against

the wall from JULIA's hammer blow.  Before he can even

slide down the wall, FRANK is upon him.

We don't linger, but CUT away to:

As JULIA closes the door, her face devoid of emotion,

we see the VICTIM's body on the floor, with FRANK's

hands oh its head, draining out its energies.

JULIA sits, sipping a drink, her face still unreadable.

FRANK is standing in the shadows.  The VICTIM's body

is in the middle of the room.

JULIA enters.

We pan across the walls as FRANK speaks.

We've moved across to FRANK now.  He is dressed,

in loose fitting jacket and trousers, through which

his blood is seeping.  He smokes, taking great

pleasure in the experience.

FRANK picks up the box.  Vague, tantalizing forms

move over the surface, like ghosts.

He turns the box over.  The lacquer catches the light.

In the lacquer we see oiled bodies moving.  It's

difficult to be sure what the forms signify.  Is

this torture, or some elaborate pleasure?

The images in the lacquer are becoming clearer, and

they are APPALLING.  Flesh torn open; blood running

across sweating flesh; hooks, and terrible machines.

His voice has begun to tremble.  The images in the

box are more horrific by the moment.  And flowing

between them, highly distorted, the CENOBITE's

faces, and that of FRANK, screaming and screaming.

He can't speak for a moment.  After a pause, he goes

on, his voice heavy.

JULIA looks at the horrors in the box, and understands

his desire.

He lifts the box up.

There's a rumble of thunder.

More thunder, and the sound of heavy rain against the

windows.

The television is on.  LARRY and JULIA are sitting on

the couch.  LARRY is watching a boxing match.  He

has consumed several beers:  the cans are beside

his feet; and there's another in his hand.

JULIA reads a magazine, glancing up at the screen

to see the match getting more heated.  Blood is

starting to flow.

LARRY looks at her.

There's a sudden raising of shouts from the screen,

as one of the boxers hits the canvas.  LARRY

turns his attention back to the match.

The thunder rolls on.

The lightning finds its way through the holes in

the newspaper.  FRANK is watching through the window,

his face occasionally washed with light.  His hand,

on the window frame, taps out the same tattoo he's

tapped out before.  He turns away from the window,

and his foot catches the box.  It rolls across the

floor.

The boxing match is heating up again.

JULIA looks up from her magazine.

The violence on the screen is horrific, as swollen

faces burst beneath punches.

LARRY stands up.

She gets up and crosses to the door.

He opens the door, and steps out into the hallway.

In such tight close up we can't sec that FRANK has

in fact left the Torture Room, we see his features

register that somebody is coming.

LARRY is climbing the stairs.  JULIA follows.

LARRY has reached the top of the stairs.  He looks up

the next flight.

She's desperate to stop him climbing to the Torture

Room.

He crosses to her.

He puts his arms around her.  She responds.

He hugs her tight, kissing her lightly. The thunder

shakes the house.

He kisses her neck, his hands restless on her.

He kisses her again.  She, in order to distract him,

kisses him back.  Her passion is artificial, but he

doesn't register that.

He starts up the stairs.

He reaches the top of the stairs.  First he throws

open the Junk Room.  Lightning flashes on boxes

inside.  Then he moves towards the Torture Room.

The thunder rolls more loudly.

She follows him along the landing, desperate to stop

him.

Too late.  He throws open the door.

Lightning floods the room.  It's empty.  She stands

beside him at the door.

She looks back down the stairs.  Where's FRANK gone?

LARRY turns to her, holding her again, on the

threshold of the Torture Room.

He kisses her, much harder this time; a sexual kiss.

He kisses her again.

A shadow moves across the screen as the door opens,

and LARRY puts on the light. He has hold of JULIA's

hand.  He leads her inside.  She sits on the bed,

illuminated by the light from the landing, and the

occasional flicker from the window.  LARRY kneels

between her legs, and kisses her breasts, his eyes

closed.

JULIA glances into the shadows of the room.  She

senses FRANK's presence.

He starts to unbutton her dress.  She's distracted

by her suspicions; he has his hands against her

almost before she realizes what's happening.

We have her P.O.V. as she looks around the room.  The

dressing table; the wardrobe; the curtains at the

window.  Does something move in the shadows?

A flash of lightning.  No.  There's nothing.

LARRY gets onto the bed and draws her against him,

kissing her.  This is not the intense, slightly

dangerous love-making she experienced with FRANK,

but a fumbling, slightly foolish exchange.  LARRY is

so wrapped in attempting to make the right moves he

doesn't register the fact that JULIA's attention is

elsewhere.

Now we have a P.O.V. from the far side of the room, of

the two figures on the bed, the only sound the thunder

and LARRY's murmured words of seduction, which we

can barely make out.

Neither of them have undressed fully; there's just a

tangle of clothes around them which removes any trace

of eroticism from the scene.

A CLOSE UP of JULIA's head, laid on the pillow, shows

just how uninvolved she is - while LARRY works, eyes

closed.  JULIA looks down the length of her husband's

body.  The door of the wardrobe swings open.  FRANK

is watching.  She registers horror.  LARRY is oblivious

to all of this, of course.

We have a CLOSE UP of FRANK watching the love-making.

Now he steps out of the wardrobe.  JULIA makes a moan

of horror, which LARRY takes as enthusiasm.

From JULIA'S P.O.V., we see the form of FRANK shamble

towards the lovers.

From FRANK'S P.O.V. we see the lovers on the bed,

LARRY's back vunerable.  JULIA seems to realize what

he intends.

LARRY barely hears her.

FRANK is at the very end of the bed now, and JULIA

becomes highly agitated.

LARRY stops his love-making.

LARRY is angered and utterly perplexed at this.  He

disengages his arms from around her.

JULIA'S P.O.V., as FRANK retreats.

LARRY rolls off JULIA.

The wardrobe door closes.  Click.

He sits on the edge of the bed.

He gets up and leaves the bedroom.  JULIA remains where

she is.  We have a shot of the bed, and her upon it,

from FRANK's end of the room.  She stares at the

wardrobe.  Through the crack of the open door, FRANK

stares back.  A flicker of lightning illuminates his

face; his skeletal grin.

Softly, beneath the assault of the rain on the roof,

we hear laughter.

KIRSTY and LARRY are sitting eating a meal together,

in an intimate restaurant.  LARRY has little appetite,

to judge by his plate.  He looks as if he hasn't slept

for several nights.  KIRSTY, by contrast, is sparkling

The straight-forward question silences KIRSTY for a

moment.  She wants to be delicate with her father's

feelings, but honest at the same time.

LARRY's face is full of the desire for reassurance.

KIRSTY tries to offer it.

LARRY nods, a weak smile on his face

A silence.

FRANK is standing at the top of the stairs, dressed in

his stained suit.  JULIA is a few steps down, staring

up at him.

JULIA nods.

She looks at him.

A wind blows, carrying autumn leaves before it.  And

on the wind, the distant pealing of bells.

JULIA is at the door, turning the key in the lock.

Beside her, a third sacrificial lamb, balding and

excitable.  His name is SYKES.

JULIA opens the door.

At the corner of the street now:  KIRSTY.  She watches,

puzzled.

A long shot of the house, from KIRSTY'S P.O.V.  The

man on the step seems to having second thoughts.

JULIA speaks with him.  We can hear none of this

exchange, but JULIA manages to coax him inside.  She

closes the door behind them.

KIRSTY stands, bewildered by what she's seen.

From the top of the stairs we watch JULIA lead SYKES

upstairs.

KIRSTY starts towards the house.

In the corner of the room FRANK stands, tapping out

the rhythm with his fingers.  It's 'Colonel Bogey',

and now he hums it too.  Outside the door, a footfall.

The humming stops.

JULIA opens the door.

KIRSTY starts down the path.

SYKES is looking at JULIA.

FRANK moves in the corner.  SYKES catches the motion

from the corner of his eye.  He turns.

FRANK steps from the shadows.

JULIA hits him with the hammer.

KIRSTY hears SYKES scream.  She freezes.  Then steps

back from the doorstep and looks up at the house.

In the Room, pandemonium.  SYKES, blood pouring down

his face, flails out at JULIA.  The hammer flies from

her hand.  He lunges for the door, but she manages

to kick it closed.

KIRSTY makes her way around the back of the house.

SYKES has taken hold of JULIA, and is using her as

a shield against FRANK, whos is bearing down upon

him.  For the first time we see FRANK's true colours

where JULIA's concerned -

Casually, FRANK throws JULIA aside.  She falls, sobbing.

FRANK descends on SYKES.

SYKES' scream covers the sound of KIRSTY forcing the

back door open.  She steps inside.

FRANK has SYKES face to the wall.  SYKES is sobbing now.

The room is covered in blood.

She picks herself up.

JULIA leaves, closing the door.

FRANK seizes hold of SYKE's neck, his fingers entering

the flesh either side of his neck vertebrae.  SYKES screams.

KIRSTY moves through the house, and starts to climb the

stairs.

Half way up the stairs, the scream stops.  She climbs

the rest of the way surrounded by a graveyard hush.

A soundless, slowed shot, as SYKES, his face wasted

by FRANK's feeding, breaks from FRANK's hold and

lunges for the door.

KIRSTY starts up the second flight of stairs.

The same slowed, soundless horror, as SYKES reaches

the door.  FRANK is a pace behind him.

KIRSTY reaches the top as -

The door from inside the room.  SYKES pulls it open -

In real time, and accompanied by the most horrific

shriek, SYKES flings himself from the Torture Room.

The flesh is hanging off his face; his eyes bulge

in terror.

Seeing KIRSTY he starts towards her.  Behind him,

FRANK, his body glistening.  He catches hold of SYKES

by the neck. SYKES'  shrieks stop.  The eyes glaze

over.  The body judders as death claims it.  Then

FRANK drops the corpse, and looks up at KIRSTY.

She starts to back away down the stairs.

He takes a step towards her.

She's still backing away. He's still advancing.

Her puzzlement, however, has slowed her retreat,

and now FRANK reaches for her.  At the last moment

she backs away again, but he's after her in a beat,

and seizes hold of her.

He drags her back up the stairs.

He pushes her ahead of him, into the Torture Room.  He

closes the door.

She has retreated as far from him as she can get.  He

advances on her.

FRANK has closed in on her by now.  He Lakes hold

of her face.

As he leans in to kiss her she snatches hold of the

pus and bloodstained shirt that's glued to his

abdomen, and PULLS.  There's a flow of fluids.

FRANK's head is thrown back, and he screams.

She slips from beneath his grasp.  But he's after

her in a moment, his hand catching her blouse.  It

tears.  His fingers rake her bare skin.

She stumbles, reaches out for the wall, which is

slick with SYKES' blood.  Her hand slides over

it.  She falls, heavily.

Roaring, FRANK comes in pursuit of her.

On the floor in front of KIRSTY:  the box.  It's a

poor weapon, but it's all she's got.  As he comes

after her again, she stands up and delivers a blow

to his head with the box.  He howls.  She races for

the door.  But he's after her.  He strikes her.

She's thrown against the wall.  He's FURIOUS now.

Strikes her again.  She cannot survive much more.

She raises the box to retaliate.   FRANK sees what

she's holding.  His  attack stops.

She dimly realizes that she has a bargaining tool.

The monster's eyes glitter.

She throws the box.  It sails past FRANK and smashes

through the window.

He goes to the window.  She takes her chance.  She's

out of the door in a moment.

KIRSTY propels herself out of the Room, and down the

stairs, while FRANK vents his anger above her.

She flings open the front door, and pitches herself -

bleeding and bruised - into the daylight beyond.

As she stumbles away down the path, she sees the box

at her feet, in a litter of broken glass.  She picks

it up, and continues to run.

A series of shots from KIRSTY'S P.O.V., as she staggers

along the street.  The sound-track whines; the image

threatens to be eclipsed by darkness.  People stare

at her as she runs.  A child points.

Finally, the CAMERA slows.  She stands still.

A voice, off camera:

The CAMERA swings giddily around in the direction of

the speaker.  A WOMAN comes into view.

As she speaks, the picture fades to white.

The whiteness continues to fill the screen.  Distant,

incoherent voices are heard, and the thump of blood

in the inner ear.

Then darkness seeps into the whiteness, patterns like

Rorschach inkblots: ambiguous, yet interpretable as

sexual or horrific imagery.  With the darkness,

soaking over the scene like blood through the sheet

in her first dream, fragments of FRANK's previous

dialogue.

The darkness is filling the screen

Now, total darkness.

And suddenly, she wakes.

KIRSTY is lying in a bed in a private room.  A NURSE

is at her bedside, monitoring her condition.

She goes to the door.

She exits.

KIRSTY tries to sit up.  Her head hurts, badly.  As she

achieves a sitting position, the door opens.  The

NURSE returns, with a DOCTOR.

She looks at him, uncertain of where to start.

The NURSE exits.  The DOCTOR brings the box from his

pocket.

He lays it on the bed.  She stares at it, her expression

betraying nothing.

She shakes her head.

He offers her a reassuring smile.

He leaves the room.

KIRSTY picks up the box, tentatively.  She turns it

over in her hand, examining it.

FRANK is standing in the shadows.  He is wearing a

fresh shirt.  He smirks.   JULIA watches him.

Downstairs, the telephone rings.  JULIA is very

nervous now; desperate even.

KIRSTY is sitting up in bed.  On the bedside table,

a telephone.  She is now thoroughly engrossed in the

problems of the box.  Her fingers speed over the

surfaces, looking for some way in, testing its

strength.

Suddenly, a click.  Her face lights up with pleasure,

as she slides a part of the box open, revealing new

intricacies.  And to accompany the revelation, a

tinkling tune.

She smiles.  It's a musical box.

The light beside the bed flickers, but she doesn't

notice.

The door opens.  It's the NURSE.

The NURSE exits.  As she does go the light flickers again.

The box clicks.  A new facet is revealed ...

KIRSTY smiles.

The front door closes.

LARRY stands in the hall.  JULIA comes down the stairs.

She looks pale; even ill.

She turns and starts up the stairs.  He follows.

KIRSTY has opened more of the box.  The tune is more

complex now.

Somewhere a bell has started to ring.  Now, she works

the final mechanism of the box.  The bedside light

flickers and goes out.

The bell rings.  Light pours out of the box.  She

drops it, shocked.

The bedside light comes on again.

She looks up.

In the wall opposite the end of her bed, a very narrow

doorway has simply opened in the wall.

Leaving the box on the bed, she gets up and goes to

the gap.  As she approaches she hears the distant,

rhythmical sob of a baby.  She stands at the doorway.

We look back at her, a diminutive figure framed against

a shot of light, from way, way down the corridor.

The sobbing goes on.  KIRSTY stares down the corridor -

which is lit brightly in some places, and is absolutely

dark in others - not certain of whether to venture down

it or not.

She glances towards the door of her room, from the other

side of which comes the reassuring sound of the hospital

going about its business.  What's to fear?

She steps into the corridor.    The walls rise into

darkness on either side of her, their surfaces like

the interior of a pyramid, pitted with age, and

rotting away.

She starts towards the sobbing child, bare feet on

the impacted earth of the passageway.

The sobbing gets louder as she advances, her form

disappearing entirely as she passes through the

intermittent darkness.

Once, she glances back towards the Hospital Room, to

reassure herself that it's still there.  It is,

though it's no more than a sliver of light at the

far end of the passageway.

She advances a few more paces.  The atmosphere is

growing denser; smoke thickens the air.

Then, a light glows at the other end of the corridor.

The sound of the sobbing child ceases.

She stops walking.

Ahead, the smoke clears and the light brightens, and we

see a creature - THE ENGINEER - hanging in the space

between the walls.  It is in silhouette against the

light, but we can see enough to know that it resembles

no earthly animal.  Its vast black limbs hold it

suspended above the corridor, clinging to the stone.

Its front limbs, vestigial by comparison, hang down

from beneath its vast head.  Its tail is curled over

its back.

KIRSTY's expression registers this horror.  THE ENGINEER

moves into the light.  Its irises narrow to slits.

From the tail a vast sting, oozing pus - like venom,

glides into view.

And then -

- it comes at her, advancing along the corridor by

bracing its legs against the walls.  Its breath is a

growl in its belly, until it moves into darkness, when

all sound from it ceases, only to erupt  again as it

finds the light.

KIRSTY turns, and starts to run.

It comes after her at speed.   Darkness, light, darkness,

light; roars and silence -

Its jaws spill its thick saliva; its eyes gleam.

KIRSTY runs blindly down the corridor, back towards the

safety of the Hospital Room.   But it's very close on her

heels, lingering -

As she comes within a few yards of the Room it closes

on her.

She flings herself through the door with THE ENGINEER's

breath on her back, and turns -

The doorway has gone.  The wall is sealed.  She approaches

the wall.   THE ENGINEER scratches on the other side ...

Then, she realises that the bell is still ringing.  And

there's a foul smell in the air.

She looks around.

She's not alone.

Standing across the room from her, lit by a strange

phosphorescence that has no visible source, are four

extraordinary figures.

They are CENOBITES.   Each of them is horribly mutilated

by systems of hooks and pins.  The garments they wear

are elaborately constructed to marry with their flesh,

laced through skin in places, hooked into bone.

The leader of this quartet has pins driven into his head

at inch intervals.  At his side, a woman whose neck is

pinned open like a vivisection specimen.  Accompanying

them is a creature whose mouth is wired into a gaping

rectangle - the exposed teeth sharpened to points, and

a fat sweating monster whose eyes are covered by dark

glasses.

When the lead CENOBITE speaks, we recognise the voice as

that of the creature from the beginning of the film.

KIRSTY stares in amazement.

The CENOBITE gestures.  The box is lying on the bed.

At this, the creature with the wired open jaw chatters

like a mad monkey.

The chattering CENOBITE steps towards her.

The door opens.  It's STEVE.

KIRSTY's face floods with relief.  STEVE does not

register the CENOBITES' presence however.

He steps between the CENOBITES.

He starts to walk towards her, but the creature in the

dark glasses takes a hooked rod from its back and puts

the hook to STEVE's neck.   STEVE's hand moves to the

place; he makes a small sound of pain. The CENOBITE

takes off its glasses, to see its trick better.  The eyes

beneath are sewn shut.  It pulls a little more on the hook.

STEVE winces.

Mystified, STEVE retreats a step.

Still puzzled, STEVE crosses to the door.

The chatterer comes for her.  As it does so desperation

brings a plan to KIRSTY's head.

He stops.

The CENOBITE stares at her unblinking.

The sound of THE ENGINEER, scratching on the other side

of the wall.  The plaster cracks, violently.

We cut back to the cracking plaster, which cracks further.

We hear STEVE's voice, and pan back into the room.

The door opens.   KIRSTY and the CENOBITES have gone.

STEVE is there, with the NURSE.

The NURSE heads for the door.

He looks round. The NURSE has gone.

His eyes have alighted on the box, which is lying on

the bed.

He picks it up.

Lights burn in the house, upstairs and down.

JULIA sits in front of the dressing table mirror.

She has a glass of whisky in front of her.  She sips

from it, studying her face in the mirror.  We've seen

her in many moods through the story:  now we see a

mingling of fear and exhilaration on her face.  She gets

up.  Laid out on the bed is,of all things, her wedding

gown.

STEVE drives towards Lodovico Street, scanning the streets

for sign of KIRSTY.

As his car drives past, KIRSTY turns a corner.  He does

not see her.   KIRSTY hurries along the street.  The

wind is chilly.   Sometimes she hears a bell in it.

STEVE drives up to the house.  The lights are still

burning.  He gets out of the car, and hurries down the

path.

He knocks on the door.  There's no reply.

Two shadowy, naked figures stand face to face in the

bedroom.  We can see no detail of their features.  We

move down their bodies.  They are standing in a shining

pool of blood.

STEVE starts round the back of the house.

The male of the couple pads towards  the bedroom door,

leaving a trail of blood behind him.  We can still see

very little of the man.

KIRSTY turns the corner of the street, and starts down

it.  The wind is strong now.  It is full of sibilant

whispers, hurrying her along.

JULIA dresses.

KIRSTY reaches the doorstep.  As she does so the whispers

die away completely.   She beats on the door.   No reply.

She beats again, more urgently.

JULIA steps onto the landing.  We can hear KIRSTY shouting

on the step.

We hear a voice, off-screen.  Is it FRANK or LARRY?

Impossible to be sure.

KIRSTY still beats on the door.

The door is suddenly opened.  JULIA is standing there.

We pan across the table.  At the end of the table sits

LARRY.  The light is behind him.  His features are

shadowy.  But we can see that he is badly bruised.

We hear the womens' voices, off-screen.

KIRSTY doesn't answer, but walks through into the Dining

Room.  KIRSTY sees LARRY at the table.

She glances round at JULIA, who has also entered.

LARRY leans forward, and into the pool of light over

the table.  He looks much the worse for wear.  His

flesh is raw and bruised.  There is blood at his neck

and hairline.

KIRSTY stares at LARRY, while in her head she hears the

CENOBITE's voice.

KIRSTY is dumb with horror at her situation.

KIRSTY turns away from LARRY.  JULIA leads her out into

the Hallway.

LARRY, still sitting at the table.  His fingers drum a

familiar tattoo.   Beneath his breath, he hums 'Colonel

Bogey'.

JULIA pushes open the door of the Torture Room.  It

creaks wide.  Lying on the floor inthe middle of the

room is a skinned corpse, in a tangle of torn clothing.

It steams.  There is blood everywhere.  That too, steams.

KIRSTY is revolted.  She steps away from the door, back

down the landing.

The bell has begun to ring again, distantly, and there

is the sound of wings in the air - thousands of birds -

beating on the other side of the wall.

KIRSTY starts down the stairs again.

KIRSTY doesn't reply.  She merely hurries away.

KIRSTY descends the stairs.  LARRY has stepped out of

the Dining Room and is moving to intercept her as she

makes her way to the front door.

The sound of wings, and bells - and a terrible slow

thunder which underpins it all - mounts in volume.

LARRY snatches at her arm.

She shrugs off his arm.   The thunder is increasing.

JULIA is on the stairs, watching this exchange.

He touches her face, fondly.

She goes to the door.

She hesitates at the door, and turns.

The thunder fills KIRSTY's head, as she stares at LARRY,

who has opened his arms to her.

Her gaze moves up to JULIA, who is on the stairs.

Everything is slowing down.  The bells and the thunder

fill the soundtrack.

LARRY smiles, as KIRSTY moves towards him.  Tears have

begun to fill her eyes.   She searches for him.  His

smile decays as he realizes her objective.   Her nails

rake his cheek.   The flesh puckers, and tears along the

brow.   Blood flows.   The mask of stolen flesh he wears

slips a little, and FRANK's twisted features come into

view.

KIRSTY screams, as FRANK lunges for her.  The lights in

the hallway flicker, and threaten to go out.

KIRSTY avoids FRANK's blow, but in doing so allows him

to get between her and the front door.  She's trapped.

His torn face flapping, he opens his jacket (the interior

of which is blood-stained) and pulls a knife from the

lining.

Suddenly, JULIA is behind her, gripping hold of her hair.

FRANK advances on KIRSTY, but in the last moment before

the fatal stab KIRSTY twists, avoiding the blow.  JULIA

shrieks and stumbles forward, the knife gleaming as

it's buried to the hilt in her side.

KIRSTY slips from between them.  JULIA collapses into

FRANK's arms.   He holds her up.

KIRSTY makes a dive for the front door, but FRANK lets

JULIA slip and intercepts KIRSTY.  JULIA falls back

against the wall, dying.  KIRSTY retreats to the bottom

of the stairs.  FRANK follows.

As he follows, JULIA reaches out and takes hold of his

sleeve.

KIRSTY flees the only route she can, upstairs.  The

house is creaking in every board and rafter now.

FRANK turns on JULIA, trapping her against the wall.,

He puts his hands around her neck, and leans towards

her.  At the last moment she seems to understand that

he intends not to kiss her but to steal what little

life she has left.

From the stairs KIRSTY glimpses him battering upon

her.

Then she looks away, and runs up the stairs.

When we look back JULIA is withering in FRANK's arms.

The landing is smoky.  The lights have taken on a

yellowish tinge.  The air is full of moans.

KIRSTY is desperate for a hiding place.   She tries one

of the doors, but it's locked.   She opens another, and

the din of birds' wings gets louder.

A P.O.V. shot, lunging towards KIRSTY in the doorway.

She slams the door in the face of whatever's coming

for her.

FRANK hears the door slam.   He drops JULIA to the

ground.  She's dead, her flesh rotting on her face.

FRANK starts to climb the stairs, his eyes burning

with hunger.

KIRSTY is cornered.   From below, FRANK's voice.

KIRSTY starts up the second flight of stairs, as FRANK's

shadow is thrown up on the wall below.

KIRSTY is faced with a choice.  The Torture Room door

is open, but the skinned body is in there, so instead

she heads for the Junk Room, and opens the door.

Moonlight falls through the window, illuminating a

chaos of furniture and boxes.  She crosses to the window,

and tries to get it open.   It won't budge.

She looks around for a lever to open the window with -

FRANK reaches the landing and opens the bedroom door,

calling for her. Then he starts up the last flight of

stairs.

KIRSTY lifts a cloth off one of the boxes.

Staring up from the box is the corpse of PRUDHOE, his

eyes and mouth open in a silent shriek.

She reels back from the box, terrified, backing into the

shadows.

An arm reaches for her, taking hold of her and dragging

her back into darkness as the door opens.  FRANK stands

on the theshold.   His breath is thick.  He shambles

forward, but he doesn't see her.

We CUT back to the shadows.  KIRSTY's eyes are wild

with terror.

Back to the door, which clicks closed.

KIRSTY breaks cover, and so does her saviour.  It's

STEVE.  He is sweating with terror.

She shakes her head.   STEVE brings the box from his

jacket.

She doesn't see what he's produced.  She's already

moving to the door.  She listens.

The landing is empty.   The door of the Junk Room opens.

KIRSTY steps out.

The house is strangely still.  The lights swing a little;

but otherwise ... nothing.  She advances along the

passageway.  STEVE follows.  They reach the top of the

stairs in safety.

As he speaks, FRANK steps out of the Torture Room,

knife in hand.

Roaring, he comes at them both.  KIRSTY flings herself

out of the path of the knife.  FRANK swipes at STEVE,

who falls backwards down the stairs.   He cries out,

head hitting the stairs as he descends.

The box falls from his unconscious hand.

FRANK turns on KIRSTY, who avoids one slice of the knife,

and another, but is driven back into the Torture Room.

He's after her in a flash.

She falls beside her father's body, her eyes meeting

its skinned face.

KIRSTY has been pushed to the limits of her endurance.

She can be terrorized and pursued no longer.  Death

looks an easy option by comparison with more of FRANK's

horrors.

As he speaks the bell begins tolling again.  FRANK looks

puzzled.

Light begins to pour through the walls of the room.

He starts towards the door.  But he's too late.  The

CENOBITES are standing in his way.  He backs off from

them.

FRANK turns on KIRSTY.

The pattern of light in the room has become more elaborate,

and the CENOBITES move through it towards FRANK.

KIRSTY crosses towards the door.  As she reaches for the

handle she hears FRANK roar behind her.  She turns.   He

breaks between the CENOBITES, knife in hand, but as he

comes within striking distance the air is full of whining

sounds and he stops dead.

They have their hooks in him, we see.  In his arms and

legs;  in his back and sides;  in his scalp and neck and

temples.   Hooks attached to countless chains, which

arrest his progress.  They plough through his flesh as

he strives to reach her.  But at a gesture from the leader

of the CENOBITES, the chains are hauled in.  He flings

back his head, yelling.   The knife drops from his hand.

She turns back to the door and opens it.  FRANK is hauled

back towards the centre of the room.

The house is growling  from basement to eaves now, as

KIRSTY steps onto the landing.

Behind her, FRANK howls.

She looks back.

They have him IN EXTREMIS,    his body spread-eagled;

hooks in a hundred places, pulling at his flesh.  He

fights like a wild animal, snarling and cursing.  They

pull the chains tighter.

A close up of FRANK's face.   He suddenly stops fighting.

He raises his head, his eyes staring up at KIRSTY from

beneath a bleeding, sweating brow.  He flicks his

tongue over his bloodied lips.

Then -

- he comes apart.

The door slams as FRANK's body is torn apart in a welter

of blood and flesh fragments.

Something heavy thuds against the door.

KIRSTY turns and starts down the stairs.

As she reaches the place where STEVE is half-sitting, half-

lying, the house starts to growl as though its foundations

are about to give way.  STEVE's nose is bleeding, and

his face is bruised, but he's conscious.

STEVE staggers to his feet.   KIRSTY picks up the box,

which is on the lower landing. As she picks it up,

the FEMALE CENOBITE steps from the shadows.

KIRSTY starts to try and manipulate the box in her hands.

KIRSTY manages to slot one of the pieces of the box back

into place.

Her voice becomes a howl, and she's sucked away into

darkness.

They start down to the half-landing.  There stands the

CENOBITE in the dark-glasses, carrying the hooked rod

he threatened STEVE with in the hospital.  Again,

KIRSTY manipulates the box.  Again, the CENOBITE howls

and is claimed by the darkness.

They hurry down to the hallway, half expecting another

creature to step into their path.  Dust is falling from

the ceiling, and there are cracks opening up  in the

walls.  Any moment, surely, the whole place will be

destroyed.

JULIA's body has gone from the hallway;  a trail of blood

leads into the dining room.

As KIRSTY and STEVE stumble across the hallway, they hear

JULIA's voice, off-screen, an eerie, ghostly voice.

KIRSTY hesitates, and looks towards the door of the

dining room.

There stands the bride, her white dress soaked in blood,

her veil covering her face.

KIRSTY takes a step towards her, but as she does so the

veil rises of its own accord, and the chattering CENOBITE

is beneath.

KIRSTY slams the box closed.

The CENOBITE howls, and disappears.

STEVE heads for the door.  Turns the handle.

As he does so, KIRSTY realizes there's one piece of the

box unfinished.

Too late.  He turns the handle.   The door is flung

open, and THE ENGINEER, clinging to the sides of the

door, swings down into the hallway.

STEVE is flung backwards against KIRSTY.    The box

falls from KIRSTY's hand.  The beast moves to bite at

STEVE, who scrambles out of the way, leaving KIRSTY

in the front line.

The box lies between KIRSTY and THE ENGINEER, which now

uses its forelegs to crawl over the hallway towards her,

its legs still bracing it in the door.

She snatches for the box.  THE ENGINEER, its mouth

oozing fluids, almost catches her arm.

Again, she tries.   This time one of its arms seizes hold

of KIRSTY and drags her towards its jaws.

Behind KIRSTY, STEVE snatches up a piece of plaster and

flings it in THE ENGINEER's face.  It momentarily

relaxes its grip on KIRSTY, who slides her hand from its

hold and claims the box.  She now has slime on her fingers.

The box defies her manipulations.

THE ENGINEER crawls towards them.  Up above, the din

of the roof collapsing.  Timbers and dust hurtle down

the stairs.

THE ENGINEER is almost upon her.  It rears up, its saliva

dropping on her.

And then, miraculously, the last piece of the box slots into

place.

The same vortex that seized the other CENOBITE seizes

THE ENGINEER.   Howling its complaint, it is drawn out

into the darkness beyond the door, and disappears.

Its voice grows thin, and fades.

Finally, silence.

The house is still.

KIRSTY gets to her feet.  STEVE does the same.

Together, they move to the door, and out onto the

step.

The door slams behind them, of its own accord.

KIRSTY turns the sealed box over in her hand.

There is a slit in it which has not quite closed.  Light

suddenly pours from it, up into KIRSTY's face.  Her

features are momentarily distorted, as if sucked towards

the box.  From within:  shrieks, bells, music.

Between the screams, FRANK's voice.

She slams the panel shut.  The distortions cease. So

does the din.

A smile crosses her face, and she leaves the doorstep,

making her way towards the street.  STEVE gazes at her,

then follows.

Their figures are erased by the darkness.

Somewhere, a bell rings as ...

THE CREDITS ROLL

