INT. CAR DRIVING DOWN COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

KIRSTY GOODING looks out the passenger window as the trees go

whizzing past. She's attractive, late twenties, warmly

sophisticated. Something makes her smile. She turns to the

driver and thinks real hard as she says this.

TREVOR is her husband, late twenties as well. God gave him

brains and beauty. He has used them both prodigiously.

Kirsty takes a calculator out of her purse and double checks

the math.

Trevor waits a moment to see if she's kidding.

CONTINUED:

Then pulls over to the side of the road. Kirsty reaches over,

quickly unzips his pants immediately goes down on Trevor OUT

OF FRAME. He reacts accordingly. A little pleasure, utter

shock.

Kirsty rises INTO FRAME once again.

FULL ON Kirsty. For the first time WE SEE her big pregnant

belly sticking out. She looks at Trevor innocently.

Trevor stuffs himself back in his pants, puts the car in gear

and presses the accelerator.

CONTINUED: (2)

She takes Trevor's hand and squeezes as hard as she can. IN

CLOSE UP WE SEE:

A SOLVED RUBIC'S CUBE sitting between them.

Do we need this vision of the solved rubics cube?

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The car is approaching a bridge.

INT. CAR - DAY

Trevor takes his hand off the wheel to look at his watch.

Trevor grabs the wheel again. Kirsty GASPS.

Trevor looks at her, trying to stay calm.

CONTINUED:

Kristy's hand moves down the along side the seat between the

door and she plunges back with the seat. She looks at Trevor

wide eyed.

Shes about to give birth in a Chevrolet.

Kristy starts to convulse with pain. She begins to tremble

and her arms flail about in an attempt to ease her

discomfort. She grabs Trevors arm for support.

Kristy becomes more violent, kicking her legs up onto the

dashboard. She starts grabbing Trevors arm a little more

violently, causing Trevors to weave a bit on the road as he

recoils.

EXT. CAR DRIVING DOWN COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

The car lunges to the side of the road and weaves a bit in

the gravel. Up ahead a bridge approaches.

INT. CAR - DAY

Trevor regains control of the car.

Trevor starts the lamanns method alone, as Kristy appears to

have passed out from the pain. She has her head leaned away

from him and is limp in the passengers seat.

Kristy doesn't answer. Trevors puts his arm on her and

shakes her. She doesn't react.

CONTINUED:

Trevors attention is now on his unconscious wife rather than

the two lane road which stretches across the bridge.

And with that Kristy's does exactly that. She lunges toward

him in a violent spasm and scares the shit out of him (and

us) which causes Trevor to now completely lose control of the

car.

INT./EXT. CAR - DAY

The rest is a blur...

... Trevor loses control of the steering wheel... Kirsty

SCREAMS... Their car skids from one side of the bridge to the

other-careening toward the guardrail- SMASH!

The car is plummeting toward the river below. Trevor and

Kirsty brace themselves. The car hits the surface...

INT. RIVER, UNDERWATER - DAY

Trevor flounders through a disoriented flurry of bubbles. He

breaks the surface and gasps for air. Getting his bearings

he see the car bobbing on the surface, the current is

separating him from his wife.

Treading water, he looks out at the car and there she is

trapped inside...

Kirsty

Still belted to her seat. Her eyes are wide with desperation,

breath quickening, sinking fast... Kristy pounds the window

with her hands, trying to get out. She's trapped.

Apparently giving in, she presses a hand against the

windshield just before the car disappears under the

surface...

EXT. SHORE - DAY

Trevor paddles hard to the shore. Exhausted, he crawls onto

the shore underneath the bridge they just jumped.

Trevor stands trying to process what just happened in the

last fifteen seconds. He screams out for his wife, and to

what has just happened.

CONTINUED:

Trevor drops to his knee's in distress.

He hears something from above and looks up. A chunk of the

bashed-up guardrail from the bridge has just snapped off and

is sailing right down toward him-

TREVOR BLACKS OUT JUST AS THE THING HITS HIM

WHITE LIGHT FLOODS HIS VISION...

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Trevor's eyes blink open, darting left and right. He is on a

bed, his head bandaged.

AN ANGULAR NURSE ENTERS the room, walking up to Trevor's bed.

The Nurse grabs Trevor's right arm and straps it to the side

of the bed. She isn't exactly one of God's gentler creatures.

She moves to Trevor's legs, strapping them down as well, then

his other arm.

By now SEVERAL SURGEONS ENTER the room, features obscured by

surgical masks.

The Nurse fastens a clamp around Trevor's head, attaches it

to the bed.

Trevor is completely discombobulated. The surgeons gather

behind Trevor's bed.

CLOSE ON TREVOR'S FACE as he struggles to see what's

happening back there but it's useless.

CONTINUED:

He cannot move a muscle. He hears a sickening SAWING noise

and his eyes bulge in horror.

WIDE as the doctors calmly lift Trevor's freshly sawed

cranium from his head exposing his brain. The CHIEF SURGEON-

a large unshaven man with magnifying lens alreaday in place

make his eyes enormous and his face grotesquely distorted. He

walks up, presented with a tray full of evenly arranged pins.

He cranks up the magnification of his lenes which make his

eyes appear even larger. Though no one speaks his name his

name tag reads Dr. Barker.

The Chief Surgeon takes one of the pins and gently pushes

into a Trevor's frontal lobe.

Trevor's eyes glaze over and his jaw relaxes. The chief

surgeon speaks in an english accent.

As the Chief Surgeon continues he takes several more pins off

the tray.

Chief Surgeon slips another pin into Trevors exposed brain.

The Chief Surgeon voice lowers and his eyes turn black. The

eye magification no at a hideous level, showing jet black

eyes.

CONTINUED: (2)

Trevor looks at the frowning nurse who is watching over him.

Chief Surgeon sticks a needle into another spot on Trevor's

brain.

TREVOR'S POV: The nurse is suddenly a pale gargoyle with

blackened eyes.

Trevor opens his mouth to scream and-

-IN A BURST OF WHITE LIGHT, AN ANGELIC WOMAN is now standing

before him. She is bathed in a haze of white light.

Trevor relaxes. His bindings are gone. The gargoyle nurse is

gone. The surgeons are gone. And his brain is sitting safely

within his inviolated skull, upon which now sit a few

electrodes. The bandage is no longer there.

But from his pain wracked expression we know the pain in his

head is still very real. He reaches for his head, makes sure

its all intact.

She touches him gently.

Trevor looks up. The angelic woman smiles back at him. She's

in scrubs, a stethoscope dangling from her neck. Trevor

winces.

She picks up a pad and scribbles something on it. Trevor

notices she's wearing a nameplate. Dr. ALLISON DORMERE.

CONTINUED: (3)

Terevors quickly recalls the accident. Fearing the worst.

AN OLDER DOCTOR walks in. AMBROSE. He gives Trevor an icy

look, then looks at Trevor's chart.

CONTINUED: (4)

Ambrose gives Trevor a fatherly smile then EXITS, not even

looking at Allison. Allison watches him go, then turns back

to Trevor... then smiles perkily.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

Trevor starts nodding out. The bus is practically empty. TWO

BLACK CHILDREN a boy and a girl sit across from Trevor. A

CREEPY OLD WOMAN sits further back, knitting something.

A CHURCH BELL RINGING causes Trevor to wake again up, wincing

at the sound. As the church passes the BELL becomes louder

and louder.

Trevor hears LAUGHTER and looks up at the children. The girl

and her brother seem to be play-fighting over a toy they hold

between them. Trevor looks at the toy getting stretched this

way and that.

The creepy old woman speaks up.

Trevor notices what the Old Woman is knitting is a baby's

bootie. As the children continue to laugh at him Trevor

stares at the bootie tears welling up.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

Trevor lives in a dingy place, one step up from poverty-

level. Funny thing is this used to be a nicer place. We see

remnants of a feminine touch long since past. Dirty dishes

sit in the sink. A cockroach skitters across the kitchenette.

Trevor sits at his TV playing an extremely violent videogame.

We're talking heads getting blown off, bodies exploding,

limbs being severed. As the end ends a DEMONIC VOICE chuckles

from the TV.

The screen flashes TRY AGAIN? Trevor takes a swig of beer and

sits back in the easy chair looking at something atop the TV.

A picture of Kirsty.

INT. TREVOR'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Trevor looks through an old photo album. Pictures of him and

Kirsty. Some pictures of him. A lot of pictures of Kirsty.

Smiles, smiles, smiles...

He stops at one close up of them mugging at a camera they've

pointed on themselves. All we see is their faces, the rest is

dark and blurry, except for one thing. A small shadowy object

Kirsty is holding.

EXT. CUBIC ROUTE ACTUARIAL RESEARCH - DAY

Dressed in a button down shirt and tie, Trevor walks up to

the pale utilitarian box-like structure.

INT. CUBIC ROUTE, BULLPEN - DAY

It is a maze of cubicles iced by harsh fluorescence. It is a

mill of data research, where the TAPPING of fingers on

computer keypads never ends...

INT. TREVOR'S CUBICLE - DAY

... no thanks to Trevor, who has already resumed his head-in-

hands position at his desk. He rubs his eyes, seemingly

blinded by the screen staring back at him.

A MAN Trevor's age rolls up on his office chair beside

Trevor, banging into the desk. BRET. Trevor's co-worker and

cubicle mate.

Bret eyes Trevor suspiciously. Then smiling...

CONTINUED:

Bret casually gestures to a surveillance camera overhead that

sweeps across the room like a prison spotlight.

Bret slides back over to his work station.

Trevor puts his hands on the computer keys and starts to

type. A jolt of pain rips through his cranium forcing him to

stop. Bret stops typing and breathes an exasperated SIGH.

A light bulb seems to go off over Trevor's head.

INT. BREAK ROOM - DAY

Inside the narrow room blasted in fluorescent light, Trevor

eyes a vending machine, examining its wares. He peruses the

sundry sugary snacks, looking for just the right fix.

It's so quiet in here we can almost hear his head pounding in

pain. He shuts his eyes. A couple of the fluorescent bulbs

over his head wink out and the rest flicker weakly.

When Trevor opens his eyes again he notices the room has

gotten considerably darker. He looks up at the weakening

lights and grunts in disgust.

CONTINUED:

The light is just dim enough now so that he can't see what's

in the vending machine. He goes right up to the glass and

peers into the machine, using his hand as a visor. This

strain on his eyes intensifies his headache.

It's still pretty murky inside the glass case. Trevor squints

and just when he thinks he can read a wrapper on... what is

it? A candy bar?-

A PALE HAND suddenly presses against the glass from inside

the machine. Trevor jolts backwards. The hand is gone. But in

the reflection of the glass Trevor notices someone has been

standing behind him. He whirls around-

-and is face to face with our worst nightmare: PINHEAD.

Pinhead lashes out at Trevor striking his face with a clawed

hand the rips his face clean off. The lights are back up as

Trevor slams against the machine and grabs his face. It's

still there!

Where Pinhead was standing is THE WOMAN who just slapped him.

She is attractive and studious. Her sensible business attire

can't hide a very curvaceous body. This is Trevor's

supervisor GWEN.

Trevor slowly peers into the vending machine. Nope. Nobody

here but your average every-day candy bars. Trevor is

dumbfounded.

CONTINUED: (2)

Gwen grins sinfully at Trevor and pushes his shoulders back

against the vending machine. Before he realizes it, she's

kissing him real hard. He gently ducks out from under her,

freeing himself.

Trevor looks constipated. He has no recollection of this.

Gwen strokes his face.

Trevor gently pushes her off him again.

CONTINUED: (3)

This goes through Trevor like a shot. EIGHT MONTHS!

Here we go- Dolly in zoom out! In Close up of Trevor we...

FLASHBACK

QUICK FLASHES of Kirsty's hand pounding on the windshield,

the car sinking into the lake, a quick cut of a dark figure

with a bright ring, and shots of two naked bodies slamming

against each other in climax course through Trevor's mind.

Finally, over the images of erotica we hear Gwens voice as

one of the characters.

And back in the real world, Trevor is now locking lips with a

very ready Gwen. His hand is up her skirt. He stops abruptly

and pulls back.

Gwen rolls her eyes. She re-adjusts her self and now getting

a little pissy. She's heard this one before.

Gwen softens up. Trevor is so earnest, so vulnerable.

She kisses him. He braces himself. She grabs his butt, then

goes for the door.

CONTINUED: (4)

INT. TREVOR'S CUBICLE - DAY

Trevor relentlessly crunches numbers at his computer. He

pauses a moment to stretch and rubs his eyes. A PING from his

computer announces he has an INTEROFFICE MEMO- FILE ATTACHED.

Trevor goes to the mailbox on his screen, clicks.

Up comes a jpeg slideshow. Each picture is of Gwen dressed in

a piece of sexy lingerie. The caption underneath reads WORK

HARDER. Looking around his cubicle, he then takes another

look at the jpeg. Trevor stands up in the cubicle and we see

him peer the outer office looking for Gwen. He sits back

down. Embarrassed Trevor closes the memo at least for now.

TREVOR'S PHONE RINGS. Startleing him(and us). He picks it up.

Push in on to a bewildered Trevor.

INT. LANGE'S OFFICE, HOMICIDE - DAY

It is a dank crumbling room. A place where sunlight is not

welcome. DETECTIVE LANGE, a handsome graying gentleman who's

plagued with a chronic case of post nasal drip, sits at his

desk.

Trevor sits across from him. Behind Trevor is another empty

desk.

As Lange speaks he SNIFFS wetly every so often.

CONTINUED:

Lange takes out nasal drops and squeezes some in each nostril

as he speaks.

Trevor looks numb, unable to answer.    Lange poker faced,

keeps looking through the reoport.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lange takes a deep hit of the nasal spray.

CLOSE ON TREVOR'S FACE as he wrestles with this notion.

INT. TREVOR'S CAR - DAY

Kirsty's eyes are closed. She is motionless. Trevor tries to

look at her while watching the road at the same time.

This time she doesn't wake up.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The car fishtails. Trevor loses control and the car skids

from one side of the bridge to the other- careening toward

the guardrail- SMASH!

The car is plummeting toward the river below... The car hits

the surface...

INT. UNDERWATER - DAY

Trevor flounders through a disoriented flurry of bubbles. He

swims up to the passenger door and tries the handle. It won't

give. Unable to breathe Trevor finally swims up...

EXT. SHORE - DAY

He breaks the surface and crawls onto the shore...

He looks out at the car to where she should be trapped

inside...

CONTINUED:

Trevors eyes are wide with desperation, breath quickening,

The car is sinking fast...

He looks at the car and calls out, but there is no Kristy

insight.

The car disappears under the surface...

Trevor hears something from above and looks up. A chunk of

the bashed-up guardrail is sailing right down toward him-

TREVOR BLACKS OUT JUST AS THE THING HITS HIM

INT. LANGE'S OFFICE - DAY

Trevor blinks and looks around him. Lange is sitting just

where they were when he saw him last. Only now there's a very

wary look on his face. Whoa.

Lange nods.

Lange checks the report again. He believes Trevor...or does

he?

Lange stands up and backs up awkwardly to a file behind his

desk. Trevor stares at him suspiciously.

CONTINUED:

Trevor exits, both men maintain eye contact as the door

closes between him.

EXT. BUS STOP - NIGHT

The bus pulls up to the curb. Trevor climbs out and starts

walking down the empty street. As soon as the bus pulls away,

the only sound heard is Trevor's footsteps.

POV BEHIND TREVOR: We see Trevor's back from a slight

distance. Someone is following him.

Sensing this, Trevor looks behind him. Nothing but an empty

sidewalk. Trevor hurries his pace, almost there at his

apartment building. He glances behind him again. Nope, nobody

there... then suddenly-

-A DARK FIGURE passes under a streetlight on the opposite

side of the street. Trevor turns a corner no picking up the

pace a little. The DARK FIGURE follows, it picks up it's pace

as well.

Trevors walks an d approaches a small alley way. Should he

take this home?

A enraged Pitbull nearly rips his nose off as it Barks and

lunges to the end of a heavy chain leash. Trevor (and us)

about piss our pant's. The dog continues barking, Trevor

regains his composure. Suddenly the dogs attention moves

toward the direction of the DARK FIGURE. Amazingly, it stops

barking and actually cowers back into the shadows.

Spooked, Trevor rushes up to:

EXT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

He hurries up to his apartment building and lets himself in.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

He looks out on the street.

The figure is walking up the building opposite his. It's

features are shrouded in shadow, but it is definitely staring

at Trevor, who slams the apartment door behind him. He peers

out at the street from inside the front hall.

The figure is gone.

CONTINUED:

Trevors looks around the apartment. He opens the fridge, it

lights up the darkened room. He grabs one of the three items

sitting on the wire racks. About to twist off the cap off a

cold beer, when a light out his window urges him to

investigate. He draws the curtain open and GASPS.

POV OUT WINDOW: Staring back at him, from a dimly lit window

in the apartment building across the street, is the SHADOWY

MAN that followed Trevor home.

The man's face is shrouded in shadows but Trevor can see he's

holding something bundled up in a blanket. The light in the

window winks out, rendering it dark again.

Trevor can almost still see the figure somewhere in the

darkness still gazing at him.

Trevor looks a little sick all of a sudden, like he can't

breathe.

THE BELL FROM A DISTANT CATHEDRAL begins to peel. BONG...

BONG... BONG...

Trevor opens his mouth to draw in a breath but instead spits

out a massive amount of water!

BONG... BONG... BONG...

Trevor falls to the ground, arms and legs thrashing, heaving

up mouthfuls of water. Trevor is drowning...

BONG... BONG... BONG...

In the puddles of water, we see bits of debris: leaves,

pebbles, etc. Finally, a hideous eel-like creature's head

pokes out of Trevor's gaping mouth- it escapes and slithers

across the floor, up the window sill and out into the night.

-the ringing bell stops abruptly and he takes in a humongous

lungful of sweet oxygen. He then notices he is completely

dry. Stunned, he looks about him.

Trevor is now laying on the easychair, nursing a beer. His

videogame is flashing PLAY AGAIN? Whoa.

The BING-BONG! of his doorbell startles him.

Trevor gets the door to find a striking young GOTHIC WOMAN on

the other side. Black hair, lipstick, fingernails. She smiles

(too brightly for someone with such somber appointments) then

summarily lifts her shirt to just below her breasts for

Trevor.

CONTINUED: (2)

Trevor looks down at her stomach, the lower half of which

contains tattoos which just break the surface of her jeans.

At its center is a navel pierced with a studded black pearl,

which Gothic Woman then plays with. Trevor looks a little

confused.

She jabs a thumb down the hall behind her.

His eyes roaming her, he finally finds a tattoo on her

shoulder reading:

CONTINUED: (3)

Trevor eyes her nervously then:

Tawny ambles off to her apartment. Trevor closes the door and

leans against it. He slides down the door and covers his face

with his hands. Another headache coming on.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - SEVEN THIRTY

Trevor paces in his living room. Looks at watch. Then the

door. Still no sign of Gwen.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - DAY

Trevor rummages through a closet. Reaching up to a shelf

above him, he tugs at a big cardboard box and pulls. The

entire box comes crashing down and out spill about fifty VHS

tapes, all hand-labeled: KIRSTY & TREVOR, then the date.

He puts one in the VCR, hits play...

It's his wedding video. Trevor watches the festivity of the

wedding ON THE SCREEN, he smiles for the first time.

The wedding portion of the tape ends and a not-so-clean edit

takes us into the honeymoon.

CLOSE ON THE TV SCREEN:

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

Trevor holds the camera on Kristy who is under the covers in

a generic hotel room. She looks into camera as Trevor adjusts

focus and squares up the frame.

CONTINUED:

Kirsty watches Trevor roam the room. She very comfortable on

camera.

They share a moment.    Kristy stares at him quietly through

the camera.

CONTINUED: (2)

They laugh. The camera now looks away from Kristy and into

Trevors suitcase. Trevors pulls out a wrapped present. A

small tightly wrappped, perfectly square gift.

The camera now back on Kristy. And the present comes up into

frame.

The camera begins to wobble as Trevor climbs onto the bed.

Its lands sideways, and we see sheets and covers rustling,

accompanied by the sound of giggling and kissing.

The tape ends. SNOW.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

FROM THE COUCH Trevor watches this...Any of this ringing a

bell?

BING BONG!

Trevor gets up and pops the tape out.

BING BONG!

He slowly walks toward the door. He opens it to find a pitch

dark hallway.

GWEN suddenly comes out of the darkness clamping her mouth

onto his and examining his tonsils with her tongue.

CONTINUED:

Trevor looks like he'd be more turned on sitting bare-assed

on an autopsy table.

She pushes him toward the chair and sits him in it.

Gwen puts one foot on his chest.

Trevor pulls the shoe off.

Trevor does the same for the other leg.

A VIDEOCAMERA ON A TRIPOD TAPING GWEN KISSING TREVOR ON THE

EASY CHAIR.

The cable from the camera runs all the way to the TV where WE

SEE what's happening as well.

CONTINUED:

It's intense. Gwen is on top. Gwen aggressively pulls

Trevor's shirt off then goes for his belt. Trevor suddenly

grabs her hands.

Gwen climbs off the chair and throws her jacket back on.

Stuffing her feet in her shoes, Gwen's out the door.

Trevor SIGHS, relieved the attack is finally over.

About to turn the TV off and stow away his camera. He looks

at the TV and freezes.

THE IMAGE ON THE TV shows that Gwen is still there,

undressing Trevor. Only video Trevor is giving in, kissing

her back, pulling her clothes off.

Trevor looks at the camera. The red "record" light is

flashing. Trevor turns back to the TV walking closer and

closer to the screen.

He waves a hand in front of the camera and his hand actually

appears on the TV in front of the sex image.

TREVOR WATCHES

Trevor and Gwen make love in video. Video Trevor turns to the

the camera (to Trevor) and gives a menacing smile.

Video Trevor looks back up at Gwen, who smiles down at him

carnivorously. She licks her lips.

Video Trevor doesn't see a knife she manages to slip out of

her purse.

CONTINUED: (2)

To Trevor's shock Gwen suddenly drags the knife right across

his throat. Blood shoots up at Gwen's grinning face. Blood

pours out of Trevor's mouth and down his chest.

FROM THE COLOR SCREEN Trevor, having just seen himself get

murdered, shouts:

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Allison stands above him Bic razor in her gloved hand. The

bottom half of Trevor's face is covered with shaving cream.

His face is clean shaven, a little shaving cream remains

around his chin. He now has several electrodes attached to

his cranium. They're connected to an EEG which BEEPS LOUDLY.

The noise bothers Trevor. His eyes dart this way and that. He

focuses on the Bic razor.

Trevor seems to like the attention.

Trevor puts his chin up and Allison continues shaving his

neck. Trevor studies her face.

CONTINUED:

Allison gives him a wink, disarming Trevor.

Allison smiles and puts her hand on his.

Allison wipes his face clean with a towel.

Allison gets up, grabs a clipboard starts filling out a

report. Trevor stares at her.

CONTINUED: (2)

Allison looks up and notices Trevor's body has slackened, his

eyes empty. She drops the clipboard and starts snapping her

fingers over his eyes.

He is unconscious. A LOUD STEADY BUZZ sounds from one of the

machines behind her as blood begins to leak out of Trevor's

ear. Allison jumps up and hits call button above Trevor's

bed.

She yanks Trevor's johnnie down, wheels a defribulator over

to his dying body and grabs the paddles.

Allison rubs the paddles together, presses the paddles

against Trevor's chest and-

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - DAY

-Trevor sits bolt upright in his bed. His alarm clock is

making that same BUZZING noise.

CONTINUED:

Trevor is completely disoriented. He sees a note laying next

to him on the bed. It says iYou're an animal baby... you-know-

who...i He finally looks at the clock. Seven forty five.

INT. TREVOR'S CUBICLE - DAY

Trevor is on his computer typing madly. ON THE SCREEN WE SEE

he has accessed the local newspaper. He calls up an article

reading: ACCIDENT LEAVES ONE HOSPITALIZED ANOTHER MISSING.

He looks at a newspaper picture of the bridge, which is

humming with rescue activity.

Trevor's head is pounding. He goes into his desk drawer and

pulls out a bottle of aspirin.

Trevor empties the last of the bottle's six tablets into his

hand, downs them, chases them with what's left of an economy

sized bottle of Mylanta. Trevor can't seem to even look at

his computer screen. He hears a DING-DING and looks up.

He has an instant office message waiting. Trevor clicks OK.

The instant message reads: iIT'S TOO LATE.i Trevor rapidly

types up. iWHO IS THIS.i The same message is repeated. iIT'S

TOO LATE. IT'S TOO LATE. IT'S TOO LATE.i

Trevor stands up and looks around mazelike structure of

cubicles as far as he can see. All of his co-workers are

slaving away on their keypads. Trevor sits back down and

cancels the instant message. He ruminates for a moment.

From behind Bret's fingers TAPPING on the keyboard seem to

get louder, more frustrated. They finally stop and Bret

stretches momentarily.

Bret goes back to work again, fingers HAMMERING away.

CONTINUED:

Trevor himself begins to type, slowly, reluctantly.

Bret freezes. He then looks at Trevor, eyes bulging.

CONTINUED: (2)

Trevor stops and looks at Bret.

Trevor is speechless.

Trevor still can't speak. He goes into his computer mailbox

and re-opens the file he'd received from iYou Know Who.i

He stifles a scream when he sees the jpegs have changed. Sure

they're still of Gwen. Pieces of her swimming in puddles of

her own blood. Where it once said iWork harderi it now says

iPolice File.i

Trevor looks behind him to make sure Bret hasn't seen any of

this. He's facing his own computer typing away.

Trevor quickly deletes the entire file. Finally...

CONTINUED: (3)

A beat.

Trevor says nothing.

Bret wheels across the cubicle on his chair and hands

something to Trevor. It's an oddly designed postcard bearing

some sort of voodoo mask. The font is faux-Oriental, the kind

they use for Chinese take-out menus. He looks closer. It's an

appointment card for an acupuncturist. Sage.

INT. SAGE'S OFFICE - DAY

A chart of all the puncture points on the human body is

tacked to the wall.

Trevor lies on the table. SAGE, a gorgeous ethereal Indian

woman is at the far end, hovering over the soles of his feet,

sticking pins into the appropriate places. She looks up at

him slyly.

Sage walks over to one of the cabinets, gathering more

acupuncture needles. Trevor can't help but notice her shapely

body, her feline gait. Sage throws a sultry glance over her

shoulder at him, prompting him to finally answer her

question.

CONTINUED:

Sage comes back to him, several needles in one hand. She

looks into his eyes.

Sage begins applying the needles fluidly to his upper body

now.

Sage puts the last needle in. For the first time Trevor

actually feels a releief of pressure in his head.

A PHONE OUTSIDE THE OFFICE RINGS. Sage looks up at the door.

Trevor watches Sage EXIT the office. He lies there a moment,

bathing in warm sunshine. He is relaxed, pain free.

CONTINUED: (2)

Behind him, an acupuncture anatomy chart on the wall. Which

begins to change its shape. It morphs (or economically

changes) into PINHEAD.

Trevor is oblivious as PINHEAD approaches, doll eyes

betraying no feeling whatsoever. Then, Pinhead reaches up to

his head and begins pulling out one of those infamous pins.

It takes a while to come out.

Because it is a foot long. Once out, the needle drips with

black ooze.

Trevor hears a noise and believes its Sage who's reentered

the room.

Pinhead speaks but in Sages voice. As he pushes on of the

pins into the tip Trevors skin in his back .

Before Trevor can react, Pinhead suddenly jabs the pin down

into Trevor's back, pinning him to the table! It sears his

skin. In Pinheads recognizable voice...

As Trevor reels in terror, Pinhead pulls another foot long

needle from his head and thrusts this one into his neck! WE

SEE the needle come right out the other side, nailing itself

into the table. Trevor can't believe he's still alive!

Pinhead pulls one more out, aims this one at Trevor's arm,

and swings down.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Allison pokes Trevor's arm with a hypodermic. She places a

reassuring hand on his chest. Machines behind her are PINGING

and BUZZING like crazy. Allison looks a little worried.

Allison blurs out of focus...

CONTINUED:

... then briefly comes back into focus...

... only now it's A MAN INSIDE A DARKENED ROOM.

INT. DARKENED ROOM - DAY

TREVOR'S POV: Buried in the murky shadow, all that can be

seen are his hands, lit by a shaft of sunlight beaming

through a blinded window. A ring on the man's left pinky

finger glimmers eerily, almost too much. We saw this man in

an earlier FLASHBACK

He's holding something. The cube. He speaks in an ECHOED and

DISTORTED VOICE.

The darkened man pushes the cube across the desk towards us.

Trevors picks up the cube.

A LOUD BUZZING NOISE BEGINS drowning out the darkened man's

words as we:

INT. TREVOR'S BEDROOM - DAY

Trevor quietly wakes up to the sound of his alarm BUZZING

again. He stares at the ceiling.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Trevor pushes through the front doors and a RECEPTIONIST

greets him with a big smile and a business card.

CONTINUED:

She hands the card to him batting her eyelashes. Trevor looks

at the card as she checks out his package. Trevor reads the

word HOMICIDE.

Trevor walks back OUT and the receptionist watches him go.

Another female employee walks by staring at Trevor. She looks

at the receptionist and they both nod in agreement.

INT. LANGE'S OFFICE - DAY

Same office only Trevor is sitting at the other desk across

from a hawklike MAN who is playing with a yoyo. This is

GIVENS. If good cop bad cop is the scheme here, he's the

latter.

CONTINUED:

Brow furrowing, Trevor stands up.

Givens pushes his phone toward Trevor, who takes it and dials

furiously. Givens remains poker-faced. Trevor dials a number.

He says the lawyer's name like it's supposed to intimidate

Givens. He couldn't care less.

CONTINUED: (2)

With that Trevor hangs up the phone and EXITS the office.

Givens BUSTS OUT LAUGHING.

INT. TREVOR'S CUBICLE - DAY

Trevor types bitterly on the computer crunching numbers like

a madman.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

Trevor plays his videogame with venom. The cries of his kills

emanate from the TV, building to a crescendo. Finally we hear

a WOMAN'S VOICE come from the TV.

Trevor flicks the REPLAY button.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

Trevor stares at the self-taken picture of him and his wife

mugging at the camera. What is it that Kirsty is holding?

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

The TV is on. Trevor flips through the channels. He stops on

the Nature Channel. A goat is casually munching on some nuts

and berries.

HEADLINE: CHURCH DESECRATED WITH BLOOD OF GOAT, LAMB

CONTINUED:

AN ILLUSTRATION of a goat with many eyes appears on the

screen.

His eyes hurting too much to watch any more, Trevor turns the

TV off. Out of sheer instinct he suddenly turns to look-

-OUT HIS WINDOW:

The apartment across the street is lit. A STRANGE FIGURE is

standing in the window.

Trevor jumps up and rushes over to his window. He looks OUT

at that same shadowy man he saw earlier. The man's face is

still obscured and is still holding something in a blanket.

Squinting Trevor is able to make out what it is:

A SLEEPING BABY. The stranger pulls the baby's blanket over

the baby's angelic face. Then the light in that apartment

goes out abruptly.

Trevor stares at the darkened window breathing heavily. Is

the stranger still in there, watching Trevor in the dark?

Trevor cannot tell.

A SUDDEN KNOCKING AT THE DOOR makes him flinch.

Trevor goes to the door, opens it to find:

TAWNY. Only now she's dressed in a skintight black rubber

dress. She smiles accentuating a fresh coat of black

lipstick.

CONTINUED: (2)

Tawny grabs the back of his neck, pulling him to her as she

kisses him deeply. She grabs his collar and pulls him out to

the hallway.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

She turns around, leading Trevor through the hall like a

horse. A very confused horse.

Trevor eyes her gorgeous body and decides not to resist quite

so much.

INT. TAWNY'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Trevor leans against the counter, sipping at a glass of wine

nervously. Right next to him, Tawny's at the stove, stirring

a pot of something dark and bubbly. She looks up at him,

smiling seductively. But Trevor's still a few lengths behind.

Tawny grabs Trevor's balls and he jumps away as if jolted by

a cattle-prod.

She holds up a spoonful of what she's been stirring. It looks

like stew.

CONTINUED:

Keeping a hand below his waist Trevor leans toward the spoon,

tastes, licks his lips. Then squints.

Trevor takes another sip of it.

Tawny summarily unzips her rubber dress and whips it off.

Trevor is speechless.

Tawny's body is covered with bites and bruises.

Tawny BUSTS OUT LAUGHING.

Trevor shakes his head no.

CONTINUED: (2)

Tawny approaches Trevor who tenses up.

Trevor starts looking very ill.

Trevor grabs his stomach, lurching over. He can't breath.

Trevor looks up at Tawny. But it is no longer her. Tawny has

changed into something else entirely.

A CENOBITE.

The Cenobite rips Trevor's shirt open, and we can see

movement within his abdomen. Like a baby kicking. Whatever's

in their shoots up expanding Trevor's chest cavity.

The Cenobite pins Trevor to the wall and hovers in his face

as if about to kiss him.

Before Trevor can scream he is choking. The Cenobite watches

with glee as something begins to move up into Trevor's

throat, expanding his neck, forcing his jaws open and

finally...

... a BLACK EEL pokes its head out of Trevor's mouth. The

Cenobite opens its own mouth and the eel starts to crawl

inside it. Meanwhile Trevor's about to pass out from

asphyxiation when-

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

-he takes a deep grateful breath through an oxygen mask. The

various pieces of monitoring equipment around him are BEEPING

and PINGING like slot machines.

Allison walks around the room pressing buttons that silent

each machine one by one, then walks up to the bed, looking

surprisingly calm.

CONTINUED:

Trevor looks relieved. Shell-shocked but relieved.

She strokes his forehead.

Trevor shakes his head.

Trevor takes her hand. Allison looks briefly around her

then... climbs onto the bed with him.

Holding her hand to his face, Trevor closes his eyes,

squeezing out a tear.

CLOSE ON TREVOR'S FACE. WE start to NOTICE subtle differences

about Allison's hand. It is very pale, the fingernails black.

Trevor opens his eyes.

INT. TAWNY'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - MORNING

He is now lying on Tawny's bed, which is surrounded by unlit

candles. Sunlight streams through her open window. It is her

hand he is holding to his face. The rest of her is sitting

under the sheet, covered head propped against the headboard.

Trevor drops her hand and it falls lifelessly to the bed

beside him. Breathing quickening he reaches up to the black

silk sheet covering her head. He yanks it back and covers his

mouth in horror.

She's been bound to the bed and gagged with a white cloth

that is soaked with blood. A deep vertical incision has been

made in her neck, collarbone to chin and her tongue is pulled

through the wound so it sticks out the bottom of her jaw. And

that's just for starters.

When Trevor looks down he gags when he sees her ribcage has

been opened like a set of French doors and her insides

sitting in her lap.

The coup de grace? Trevor now sees he is covered with blood.

HERS.

INT. TREVOR'S APT., BATHROOM - DAY

Trevor splashes his face with cold water, trying to get his

composure back. He stares at the water rushing down the drain

for a moment. His breathing stabilizes He finally looks up at

his reflection in the mirror...

... to see PINHEAD staring back at him.

Trevor jolts backward in shock and does a double take. It's

him now, looking completely unhinged.

Outside the PHONE RINGS. The answering machine picks up with

a BEEP.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Cleaned up now Trevor carefully makes his way back to Tawny's

apartment. He tries the door. It's locked. This can't be

right. He jiggles the door knob violently, then finally KICKS

the door.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly-

-TAWNY answers the door, looking utterly pissed off. Though

still in Goth mode, she's dressed much more conservatively

now.

Trevor goes to embrace her. She shrinks back, startled.

A VERY DEEP VOICE comes from somewhere behind her.

Tawny looks aghast.

CONTINUED: (2)

Suddenly an enormous BRUTE of a MAN, wide as he is tall

ENTERS the doorway. He's wearing a black tee, black jeans

and, Trevor can't help notice, black nail polish... on

fingers and toes. Obviously Tawny's significant other.

Brute takes a sideward step through the doorway, forcing

Trevor back two steps.

Trevor turns and hurries off. Brute turns to Tawny who shrugs

and makes a twirly motion at her temple. The two go back into

her apartment.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - DAY

Trevor paces in his apartment telephone to his ear. He lets

out a heavy breath and looks at his watch. Finally:

Trevor hangs up.

INT. BUS - DAY

Trevor sits at the front of the bus agitated. He folds and

unfolds Detective Lange's business card in his hands like

some frustrated Origami artist.

The SIREN from a passing ambulance drills his ears. The

irritating sound eventually fades away but the pain in his

head is still there.

The BONGING of a distant cathedral's bell makes him pause. He

looks around.

Toward the rear and sees a familiar old lady knitting a

baby's bootie. He looks again. The bootie is bright red and

dripping... blood? Trevor follows the strand of bright red

wool down to their source:

A DYING GOAT laying under the seat. It's insides have been

ripped out. Its veins and tendons are serving as the old

lady's yarn.

Trevor's eyes bolt back up to the old woman. She continues

HUMMING sweetly, her lap speckled with goat's blood. Trevor

pulls the wire and an OBNOXIOUS BUZZING goes off. Trevor

hurries up to the bus driver as the bus pulls over.

Trevor clutches his head in pain and waits for the bus to

stop. The doors open. He jumps off, knees nearly buckling

from the pain. He looks up as the bus speeds off.

IN THE REAR WINDOW the little black girl seen earlier pops

up. She's holding her little doll. She pushes a clothespin

into its head. Blood drips from the puncture. At the same

time Trevor feels an incredible pain sear through his head.

He squints at the bus again. The little girl is gone.

INT. LANGE'S OFFICE - DAY

Lange is at his desk eating a sandwich. Trevor comes in

angrier than a hornet in a beehive.

CONTINUED:

Trevor SLAMS his hand down on Lange's desk and gets right in

his face.

Trevor immediately turns around and walks OUT.

INT. LARRY ELLIS' OFFICE - DAY

LARRY ELLIS is a somber but handsome young attorney. At

present he at his desk poring through several books on child

custody law. He makes notes on a pad beside him as he talks.

Trevor sits on the other side of the humongous office in a

chair so big it practically swallows him whole.

Larry is not buying this for a nanosecond. He trims some

brown leaves off a small plant as he speaks.

CONTINUED:

Larry sighs and walks over to his desk. He presses a button

on his intercom.

CONTINUED: (2)

Trevor gets up and heads for the door.

On his way out Trevor nearly runs down Larry's ASSISTANT who

was just coming IN with a large file. Trevor's gone.

INT. CAB - DAY

Trevor looks despondently out the window. The cab stops and

Trevor hands some money to the CABBIE up front.

EXT. BRIDGE - DAY

Trevor gets out of the cab, which drives off leaving him on

the bridge looking down at the water below.

EXT. BELOW BRIDGE - DAY

Police tape FLAPS between the trees. Other than that there is

no sign of an investigation. Trevor walks out of the woods on

the shore, through the police tape and to the water's edge.

He begins to walk the shore looking out at the still water.

He scans the area where the water meets the land, trying to

remember.

Something on the surface few feet away catches his eye. It's

a rock sticking up. No it's something else. Trevor walks

right up to the water and puts his feet on a couple of large

rocks breaking the surface. He bends down and looks at...

THE CORNER OF A BLACK CUBE. He quickly reaches down, tries to

pick it up. It seems to be stuck just below the surface.

Trevor pulls harder and finally it gives. Trevor slowly lifts

the black cube out of the water and GASPS when he sees-

-A WHITE WATERLOGGED HAND CLUTCHING IT FROM BELOW!

Trevor GASPS and lets go. And just as the cube (along with

its owner) SPLASH under the surface-

-ANOTHER WHITE HAND breaks the surface grabbing Trevor's

wrist!

As Trevor Struggles he looks up to see the dark figure

standing above him holding a rock over his head. Just as he

swings down towards Trevors head-

INT. ALLISON'S OFFICE - DAY

Trevor jumps scaring the hell out of Allison who has just

gotten done taking his pulse.

Trevor looks down at himself. He's on an examination table in

his normal clothes not a hospital johnnie. That's a good

sign.

Trevor tries to put his thoughts together.

CONTINUED:

Allison shines a penlight in his eye.

Trevor blinks. Satisfied, Allison sits on the bed next to

Trevor and takes his hand.

Allison looks concerned. Then her features soften.

Allison lets a lapse in the conversation last too long. That

look of concern returns as she lingers on his face. She's

trying to say something.

CONTINUED: (2)

Allison finishes writing a few notes, and Trevors rolls down

his sleves. He's intrigued.

Neither of them want this visit to be over.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

The two share the end of an empty cafeteria table, eating off

pastel colored trays.

CONTINUED:

Allison LAUGHS.

They both chuckle, Trevor's expression gets serious. After a

moment of silence.

CONTINUED: (2)

Allison reaches accross the table for Trevors hand. A quiet

moment.

EXT. HOSPITAL ROOF - DAY

Trevor and Allison sit in a couple of chairs looking out at

the other rooftops around them.

She points to the ground at myriad butts scattered at their

feet. Trevor smiles and looks at his hands.

CONTINUED:

Trevor stares off into the distance.

CONTINUED: (2)

Allison SMILES and pats Trevor's knee. He melts and puts his

hand on hers. She slowly takes it away and fixes her hair.

She caresses his face then looks at her watch.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Trevor walks through the maze of cubicles a big smile on his

face. He's actually having a good day.

INT. TREVOR'S CUBICLE - DAY

Bret's already looking up at Trevor as he ENTERS.

Trevor's smile disappears when he sees someone's already

sitting in his chair. LANGE. He's on Trevor's computer

surfing the internet.

CONTINUED:

Bret gets up and LEAVES as Trevor approaches Lange.

Trevor sits in Bret's chair as Lange logs off and swivels to

face Trevor.

Lange shakes his head and pulls something else out of his

pocket. It's The Cube sealed in a ziploc. Trevor cannot

conceal a feeling of dread.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lange puts the cube back in his pocket and stands up.

Lange gets up and EXITS. Trevor satys seated, after a beat he

stands up looking over his cubicle and sees DET. GIVENS

staring back at him from the door. Trevors sits back down.

Trevor suddenly clutches his head as if it's been killing him

this whole time. He goes to his chair picks up the phone and

dials.

Trevor hangs up. We can almost hear his head throbbing in

pain.

He turns around and there's BRET LEANING AGAINST his desk

eating a frozen yogurt. Staring at Trevor.

CONTINUED: (3)

Bret nods, tosses the frozen yogurt container out and sits

down.

This hits Trevor like a ton of bricks.

INT. PUB - DAY

The place is practically empty. Bret and Trevor play darts

and work on a pitcher of beer. Country Western plays on the

jukebox.

CONTINUED:

Bret throws a dart with extra mph. It misses the board

entirely and hits the wall. Trevor winces in pain suddenly.

He touches his head and looks at his fingers. Fresh blood.

FLASHBACK

Trevor in the car in the water. Thrashing about, he bleeding

from his head in the flashback as well. Where's Kristy? He

looks in the passenger seat. She's gone.

Trevor takes the cube from the man with the ring. He fumbles

with the puzzle box in the darkness.

CU box.   It starts to move.

Trevor driving with Kristy, She's going down on him while

he's driving.

Trevor waits a moment to see if she's kidding.

The car comes to a stop.

CONTINUED: (2)

Trevor gets the goods while he watches himself in the rear

view mirror.

Someone approaches. Trevor zips up, pulls Kristy up out of

his lap. Its a cenobite.

Trevor screams and opens the door of the car to make a

frantic exit. He dive out onto the pavement and looks back.

All is quiet. He's alone a quiet road.

He stands up and into an eerie world of slow motion . Trevor

looks up the road and back to find-

A beautiful vision of Allison walking toward him. Walking

gracefully, she approaches Trevor. Raises her hand to his

face. Trevor smiles, then slowly looks back towards the car.

Inside the car he see's Kristy playing with the puzzle box.

Trevors calls out to her.

And he makes a move toward the car, as the box comes to life.

This stops Trevor in his tracks, and he looks toward Allison.

Who is now PINHEAD.

Tervors looks dumbfounded.

END FLASHBACK

INT. PUB - DAY

Trevor raises his head from the bar. The beers are there but

Bret is gone. Trevors stares at himself in the mirror

opposite the bar. He looks like shit. He thinks hard about

the flashback.

Out the door he goes.

EXT. PAY PHONE - NIGHT

-Trevor's holding the phone up to his ear agitated beyond

belief. He'd pace if he could. Instead he just fumes.

-CLOSE UP on Trevor's hand searching through the D's in the

white pages. He slams the book shut in frustration.

-He's on the phone again.

Trevor SLAMS the phone down and touches his head again. He

looks at his hand. The blood is gone. But the headache is

back. Its crippling at this point. He's at his wits end. He

reaches into his pocket and finds Pages card. Maybe as a last

resort?

THE PHONE RINGS. IT RINGS AGAIN. Trevor presses his palm

against his eye. Trevor picks up the phone.

DIAL TONE.

EXT. SAGE'S BUILDING - NIGHT

Trevor is out of breath as he walks up to the last resort.

The entrance to Sage's building. The front door is locked. He

presses a three digit code on the alarm box. RING. RING. The

phone picks up. He's deperate.

INT. SAGE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Trevor's head hits the pillow on the acupuncture table.

Sage nods, patient look on her face.

Sage grabs a bunch of needles from the table.

CONTINUED:

Sage looks Trevor dead in the eye.

Trevor closes his eyes

A MONTAGE

of Sage dimming the lights so that the room is nice and

dark... placing needles into Trevor's body... his

shoulders... his chest... his neck... his legs... his face...

Trevor finally opens his eyes to find...

... he's completely naked on Sage's table! And she's making

love to his body, which is now filled with needles!

CONTINUED: (2)

She holds up a small chunk of ice and begins rubbing it on

Trevor's chest. He catches his breath at the cold and begins

to shiver.

INT. CAR - DAY

Trevor wakes up shivering. He is in the passenger seat, head

resting against a baby blanket. A hand touches his...

... Kirsty's.

Trevor looks at Kirsty. She is breathtakingly beautiful.

Trevor looks in the back and for the first time sees an

INFANT GIRL sleeping in a car seat behind him.

Trevor looks back at Kirsty.

THE SIREN FROM AN APPROACHING AMBULANCE GETS LOUDER AND

LOUDER, piercing Trevor's ears.

CONTINUED:

Trevor winces in pain and blocks his ears from the noise.

Kirsty looks at him, puzzled. He can only read her lips:

"Honey what's wrong? Honey?"

INT. AMBULANCE - NIGHT

Trevor's eye rivet open again. A PARAMEDIC is snapping his

fingers in front of them. Another paramedic is readying a

hypodermic.

Trevor nods.

The other paramedic sticks a needle in Trevor's arm.

Trevor shakes his head. The paramedic holds up two fingers.

Paramedic moves his hand left to right. Trevor keeps his eyes

on it.

CONTINUED:

The ambulance comes to a stop.

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

A couple of orderlies wheel Trevor into the exact room he's

been coming to this whole time. The orderlies EXIT and who

should ENTER but Dr. Ambrose... and the ANGULAR NURSE who

readied him for the brain surgery at the beginning.

Ambrose holds a penlight up to each of Trevor's eyes and

nods.

Trevor just stares at Dr. Ambrose.

CONTINUED:

Dr. Ambrose looks a little confused.

Ambrose looks at the nurse, who shrugs, then back at Trevor.

Ambrose pats Trevor's shoulder congenially and WALKS OUT.

Trevor tenses when the nurse smiles.

The nurse looks taken aback.

Trevor suddenly jumps up yanking electrodes and IV tubes from

his body. The nurse is back to normal and very disconcerted.

Trevor runs out of the woman mowing the woman down in his

tracks.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAYS - NIGHT

Trevor rushes down the halls of the hospital nearly knocking

down Dr. Ambrose.

Trevor races as fast as his feet can carry him easily losing

Dr. Ambrose.

INT. OTHER WING - NIGHT

Trevor runs down a corridor through another doorway and into

another wing of the hospital entirely. He arrives at the door

to Allison's office and throws it open. It's actually a

janitor's closet.

EXT. HOSPITAL ROOF - NIGHT

Dressed in janitorial garb, Trevor bursts open the stairwell

door and comes out on the roof.

An OLD MAN in a johnnie is sitting in one of the chairs not

too far away. An oxygen tube trails from his nose to an

oxygen tank at his feet.

He brings a cigarette to his lips and takes a long drag.

The old man lights a fresh cigarette with the one he's just

finished.

Trevor turns to go back and THERE'S ALLISON standing in the

doorway.

CONTINUED:

Allison holds him. The old smoker turns and watches with

curiosity.

The old man calls out to Trevor wheezily.

Trevor turns to the old man.

Trevor turns and Allison is gone. Vanished into thin air.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

Trevor sits at the front of an empty bus rubbing his head. He

stares at the spot where the creepy old lady knitting the

baby's bootie used to sit. He looks under the seat. There is

nothing there.

The HYDRAULICS HISS as the bus comes to a stop.

Trevor gets up and hurries off giving the driver a cursory

glance. The driver doesn't look at Trevor as he speaks.

Trevor EXITS the bus.

EXT. BUS STOP - NIGHT

Trevor steps out of the bus and faces the ROMAN CATHOLIC

CATHEDRAL. He ascends the steps.

INT. CONFESSIONAL - NIGHT

Trevor sits in the booth across from the tiny screen, behind

which is a VERY TIRED PRIEST who is still in his pajamas.

CONTINUED:

The priest moves closer to the screen.

CONTINUED: (2)

The Priest begins to chuckle ominously.

Resisting the urge to scream Trevor bolts out of the

confessional...

INT. CATHEDRAL - NIGHT

Trevor rushes out of the confessional. THE CATHEDRAL BELL

begins to CLANG. Eardrums getting battered by the RINGING

Trevor blocks his ears and rushes toward the exit-

-coming face to face with a gargoyle blocking his path.

PINHEAD. Though he speaks softly his voice is heard easily

over the bell.

Pinhead opens his cloak revealing the darkness within. To

Trevor's shock his sucked right into this void inside

Pinhead.

INT. CUBIC ROUTE ACTUARIAL RESEARCH, BULLPEN - NIGHT

Trevor is thrust into the interior of his office building.

Everyone's gone for the day. The only light is coming in from

streetlights outside. Trevor races past the cubicles running

out into a hallway.

He looks down one end then the other... where he sees an

office light is on. He cautiously approaches the office.

He looks inside.

INT. GWEN'S OFFICE - DAY

Gwen's hacked up body is strewn about the office. Her arms

are atop the filing cabinet. Legs under her desk. Ass on the

copier.

Trevor hears someone coming. He looks down the hall to see A

FLASHLIGHT BEAM TURN THE CORNER, blinding him. It's bearer

begins running toward Trevor.

Trevor bolts the other direction heading for the exit. He

pushes the door open and slams it behind him only he's not

still outside yet...

INT. TAWNY'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT

Tawny lies on the bed, dead, tongue sticking out of her neck,

ribcage violated.

Trevor hears someone coming toward the bedroom can see the

flashlight beam jittering as its bearer approaches.

Trevor rushes toward the window, opens it and leaps out onto

the fire escape.

EXT. APT. BUILDING - NIGHT

Trevor's about to climb down the fire escape when he is

bathed in the flashlight's beam from inside. Trevor looks

down and sees a garbage dumpster full of trash bags below. He

jumps.

Trevor sails down three stories and lands in the dumpster. He

climbs out and runs to the street as fast as he can. He races

down the sidewalk trying to get his bearings at the same

time.

Hearing footsteps from behind Trevor turns to see:

The Stranger in the Window not half a block behind Trevor,

keeping Trevor's pace. Then... Trevor stops. And turns.

The Stranger stops as well. This has never happened before.

Trevor shouts down the empty street.

His voice echoes off the darkened buildings.

The Stranger stands there. Trevor begins walking toward him,

blood in his eyes. The Stranger backs away.

CONTINUED:

Trevor bolts into a run and the Stranger takes off running

the other way.

The stranger darts into an alley.

INT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Trevor runs into the alley, seeing no signs of the stranger.

The end of the alley is pitch black.

Trevor hears something at the end of the alley. He grabs a

broken bottle out of a garbage can and heads toward the

darkness. Trevor's teeth are bared now.

Something GLISTENS in the dark just before the razor sharp

edge of a switchblade touches his left jugular. Trevor

freezes. OUT OF THE SHADOWS comes... BRET.

CONTINUED:

Trevor is absolutely speechless.

Bret presses the blade against Trevor's neck a little harder,

drawing a rivulet of blood.

Bret then puts the knife to his neck.

Bret drags the knife across his own jugulars slicing them

open. Blood pours out of his smiling mouth. Then something

really weird happens. Cuts begin to open up all over Bret's

face and his hands. Blood pouring to the ground in buckets.

Bret lifelessly falls into the pool of blood... Before he can

process what's just happened, Trevor hears a NOISE behind him

and turns to see... several of those slithering sewer

monsters coming toward him, surrounding him.

And behind them, SEVERAL SILHOUETTED FIGURES walking slowly

toward him. We don't need three guesses to figure out who

they are... CENOBITES.

Panicking Trevor reaches down and grabs the knife out of

Bret's hand and readies himself for the inevitable attack

when-

-the BLINDING LIGHT FROM A POLICE car illuminates the alley.

First Trevor notices the sewer monsters are gone.

CONTINUED: (2)

Then the figures we thought were Cenobites are actually LANGE

and several police officers. Lange looks disappointed.

Trevor does so. TWO COPS rush up to Trevor and one swings his

baton down just over Trevor's eye- CRACK!

LIGHTS OUT.

INT. POLICE CRUISER - NIGHT

Trevor's nose has been bleeding. His eye is black and blue

his lip cut. Trevor looks out the window. The streets are

deserted, foreign.

Trevor looks at the rear view mirror. The cop staring back at

him averts his gaze. Trevor thinks he sees something crawl

into the cop's eye.

Lange sits next to the cop, staring back at Trevor. He takes

out his antihistamine and sprays some up his nose.

INT. POLICE STATION LOBBY - NIGHT

The doors burst open and the two cops, Lange escorts Trevor

IN.

The lobby is entirely deserted. Trevor looks around. There

are cups of coffee sitting on desks, jackets thrown over

backs of chairs. Signs of a recently bustling workplace that

has vacated.

INT. CHECK-IN - NIGHT

The cops hustle Trevor up to a counter, finger print him, sit

him in a chair. One of them sits at a computer terminal.

Despite being indoors both cops keep their sunglasses on.

CONTINUED:

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The cops hurry Trevor down a dank corridor toward a line up

room. Trevor sneaks a peek inside one of the rooms.

INSIDE THE DOORWAY: TWO DETECTIVES have some HAPLESS SOUL

strapped to some odd looking electrical contraption.

Detective#1 hits a button and a shock races through the

Hapless Soul's body. Just then the other detective notices

Trevor looking in and SLAMS the door shut.

The trio comes to the line up room.

INT. LINE UP ANTEROOM - NIGHT

Trevor is shoved into the cramped booth-like room with four

other strange looking MEN who all stare at him. Silence for a

moment then:

A LOUD BUZZ is heard and the door on the other side of room

opens.

Trevor follows the other men. The MAN just ahead of Trevor

turns to him.

INT. LINE UP ROOM - NIGHT

Trevor walks IN with the rest of the gentlemen. Hugging the

nearest wall they go up a small set of stairs onto a stage.

Trevor hears Lange's VOICE overhead.

CONTINUED:

The five men do as they're told, facing a large two-way

mirror on the opposite wall. An awkward moment.

The door to the room opens again and Trevor turns, leading

the other men back through the anteroom.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The cops hustle Trevor out into the hallway. The next door

down opens and out come two more detectives and... TAWNY'S

BOYFRIEND, the brute, looking fit to be tied. He sees Trevor

and fills with rage.

He lunges at Trevor. It takes the detectives he's with and

two more cops to keep him from pummeling Trevor. As Trevor's

lead away the brute begins to sob uncontrollably.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Trevor sits at a tape recorder. Lange sits across from him.

Lange stands, squirting antihistamine in his nose. He nods at

Trevor and WALKS OUT. No sooner has the door closed when it

opens again and Givens walks IN. Givens gets right in

Trevor's face.

CONTINUED:

Givens whirls around revealing Lange's face on the back of

his head!

Trevor thinks a moment. He is absolutely numb. He smiles a

little insanely.

INT. POLICE STATION HALLWAY - NIGHT

Still handcuffed Trevor is escorted toward the detention area

by the cops in the sunglasses. He's silently praying he'll

wake up from this one somehow. No such luck. Trevor and the

cops round a corner and there's Lange running up to them.

Lange leads them to a set of elevators.

The elevator doors open and they get in.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

It's a long ride down. Nobody speaks.

Trevor looks at the cops in the sunglasses. One of them takes

his pair off. His eye sockets are empty. We can see brain.

CONTINUED:

The cop cleans his shades then his mouth smiles at Trevor

before he puts the sunglasses back on.

Finally the doors open. Lange unlocks Trevor's handcuffs and

the cops push him out the door into a dark corridor.

INT. DARK CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Trevor looks back to see Lange and the cops staring back at

him.

One of the cops waves bye-bye to him. And with that the

elevator doors shut.

Trevor turns around and faces the long corridor. He begins

his hike towards its end where an ominous set of double doors

awaits.

He arrives at them and pushes them open.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

As soon as the doors open fluorescent lights flicker overhead

illuminating two walls of metal drawers and between them: a

large slab of marble upon which rests a human form covered

with a sheet. Trevor ENTERS.

He makes his way toward the body and stares at it.

A low WHEEZING noise coming from a dark corner just beyond

the slab distracts him. Trevor looks and freezes when he

sees:

THE GOAT laying on the floor in a pool of blood. It's still

breathing. One of the goat's slatted eyes is staring at

Trevor as if begging for mercy. A STRANGE RIPPING NOISE is

heard. The goat MEWLS in pain then its eye rolls up. Dead.

The animal's body begins to quiver as a tiny wound on its

back widens spitting out streams of blood.

Trevor begins to back away as the wound stretches open,

giving birth to a rising form...

PINHEAD. He rises completely from the goat, stepping out of

the wound. He is red with blood for a second. Then his skin

and robe absorb the blood like a sponge. Pinhead approaches

Trevor blocking him from the body on the slab.

CONTINUED:

INT. GWEN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Gwen has Trevor on her desk riding him like a hobby horse.

Rain pounds against her window.

EXT. CUBIC ROUTE ACTUARIAL RESEARCH - NIGHT

Kirsty sits inside the car looking up at the window, eyes

narrowing.

INT. TREVOR'S APT. - NIGHT

Rubbing the baby that's growing inside her, Kirsty sits in

front of the TV watching Trevor having yet another romantic

rendezvous with TAWNY.

THE TV SCREEN DISSOLVES to Trevor in bed with yet another

woman... and another... and another...

BACK TO:

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

That fatal BELL begins to TOLL. With each peel the walls of

the morgue shakes. It's walls begin to rumble and crack.

CONTINUED:

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

LOW ANGLE UP AT: Kirsty, Trevor's lovely wife, raising a rock

above her.

And SLAMMING a rock down on us.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

INT. TREVOR'S APT., BEDROOM - NIGHT

Trevor and a very pregnant Kirsty sit on their bed, passing

the cube back and forth. Trevor's the one with the magic

touch. The cube begins to open in his hands. Kirsty's eyes

light up as she watches...

ON the walls as shadows begin to flail in pain and panic. OFF

SCREEN SCREAMS are heard as blood begins to shower the walls

of the bedroom.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

The lights dim. Drawers behind Pinhead begin to open. We see

Gwen's body, Tawny's, Sage's, Bonnie's.

QUICK IMAGES of Gwen, Tawny, and Bret being rent to pieces by

the Cenobites, SCREAMING in vain.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

The lights flicker overhead, reddening with each strobe.

Hundreds of those little sewer monsters come slithering out

of the cracks in the walls, racing toward Trevor. He doesn't

care.

CONTINUED:

Pinhead grabs the sheet and whips it back.

Trevor's jaw drops in disbelief.

IT'S TREVOR'S BODY. It is blue, bloated and mutilated. The

corpse's skull has a massive crack in it.

INT. LANGE'S OFFICE - DAY

Kirsty sits across from Lange, who slides the cube across the

desk towards her.

INT. CAR - DAY

Kirsty drives. Trevor sits in the passenger seat, in the same

position we saw him in during his last flashback. Only now it

is clear the reason his head is resting on the baby blanket

is to keep his brains from spilling out his split open skull.

ON KIRSTY'S HAND holding his. It is now covered with blood.

EXT. BRIDGE - DAY

The car goes off the bridge landing in the water. Kirsty's

head breaks the surface. She watches the car sink into the

river.

INT. MORGUE

Trevor stares at his own dead body in utter disbelief. The

sewer monsters begin crawling up his legs. Pinhead smiles.

CONTINUED:

The scream ECHOES over Trevor's dead self, which seems so

tranquil in contrast. HOLD on the corpse. After a beat the

bells stop, as does the rumbling and the cracking. The lights

brighten. Serenity. Then:

REVERSE ANGLE on Kirsty looking down at the corpse wiping her

eyes. She looks over to the other side of the body where

Trevor and Pinhead had been standing. Where now DETECTIVE

LANGE and the coroner DR. AMBROSE had been standing.

The two gentlemen look at each other.

Lange escorts Kirsty to the door. They EXIT but not before

Kirsty gives her late husband a parting glance. Ambrose

covers Trevor's body and looks OFF CAMERA.

REVERSE on two other DOCTORS who are busying themselves

collecting instrument. ALLISON and SAGE. They walk over to

Trevor's body and get to work. Sage sticks a needle in

Trevor's arm.

Allison at his side, Ambrose checks the wound on Trevor's

head, pauses to look inside Trevor's eyes.

TREVOR'S POV: Ambrose closing the eyelid again.

Ambrose opens Trevor's mouth.

Ambrose pulls a long black dead lamprey out of Trevor's

mouth. Looks at the slippery creature for a moment.

CONTINUED: (2)

Allison holds out a large freezer bag, into which Ambrose

dumps the dead lamprey.

Allison walks right up to the corpse's face.

CONTINUED: (3)

Allison fixes a stray lock of hair on Trevor's forehead.

QUICK CUTS: Allison slipping a tag on Trevor's toe; sliding

Trevor's body into the morgue drawer; her hand turning the

lock on the drawer.

INT. LANGE'S OFFICE - DAY

Lange sits across from Kirsty, who signs some paperwork on

Lange's desk.

She nods teary eyed. She slides the paperwork across his desk

and gets up to leave.

Lange reaches under his desk then stands revealing:

THE CUBE inside a ziploc bag. Lange and Kirsty exchange a

knowing glance.

She takes the cube.

CONTINUED:

Lange takes out his nasal sprayer as she walks OUT. She

closes the door behind her and Lange looks up at the closed

door. He sticks the sprayer up his nose.

INT. POLICE STATION HALLWAY - DAY

Kirsty walks toward the exit. On her way she passes a trash

can. She discretely tosses the cube into it and rubs her

hands together.

EXT. POLICE STATION - DAY

The birds are chirping. The sun is shining. Kirsty Gooding

walks out the door and takes a breath of fresh air. She skips

down the steps of the police station toward the street. She

stops in the middle of the sidewalk looking both ways.

A SHADOW COMES up behind her. It's the STRANGER Trevor had

seen out his window. He grabs her shoulder startling Kirsty.

She turns to see LARRY ELLIS, shit-eating grin on his face.

He's holding an eight month old BABY. The one he was drawing.

Kirsty plants a multitude of smothering kisses on the

laughing child as A NANNY comes up behind Larry pushing a

stroller. Kirsty gently places the baby in it.

The Nanny pushes the stroller away, nodding, waving good-bye.

Larry smiles as he watches the baby go.

CONTINUED:

Kirsty smiles to herself.

They walk slowly toward the curb.

They put their arms around each other.

Larry sees a cab and rushes out to hail it.

Something out the corner of her eye scares Kirsty. She turns

to see Lange standing there.

Lange holds up the cube she tossed out. Kirsty's expression

falls. But... how...?

Kirsty takes the cube.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lange turns and Kirsty's shock there's Givens' face... on the

back of Lange's head!

Givens smiles at her then walks away. She slowly walks toward

the cab where Larry has opened the door for her.

INT. CAB - DAY

Kirsty slides into the cab looking at the cube in despair.

Larry slides in after her.

He grabs Kirsty's knee. She just stares at the cube.

Larry looks down at the cube. It has magically risen from her

palms and begun to rearrange itself in that way we've come to

know and love so well.

The cabbie, looking back at the sight, slowly slides the

window between the driver and passenger compartments shut.

EXT. CAB - DAY

As the cab drives off into traffic we see LIGHT FLICKER from

within it. The cab passes a cathedral. Its BELL BEGINS TO

TOLL.

BONG

BONG

BONG

BONG

