FADE IN:

On complete darkness.

A SMALL DOOR swings open.

A circle of light reveals that we I re looking down the

length of a tube. At the far end of the tube, we see a

gloved hand dangling a rat. The hand shoves the

frightened rat into the tube and closes the door behind

it. The rat s stark white fur bristles and it begins to

pad down the tube s length.

After several feet, the tube opens up into a dimly lit

cubicle. The rat hesitates and stops.

The SOUNDS of gentle BREATHING whispers in the rat s

ears.

The rat turns round to head back down the tube, but a

door swings shut, trapping it in the cubicle.

The rat cowers as the BREATHING turns to SNORTING.

The rat s head jerks around, looking for signs of danger,

but the cubicle is empty. The rat sees a water dish on

the far side of the cubicle - a place to hide - and

dashes toward it.

But an invisible force descends.

The rat squeals in agony as something smashes down on its

body, crushing it.

A LOUD BELLOW rings out, and the rat flies into the air,

halting a few feet off the ground. Its body writhes,

struggling against the unholy force.

Then a sick crunch of tiny bones snapping. All life

quickly drains from the levitating body. Dead eyes...

The creature s corpse floats in mid-air. Then the white

fur of the rat explodes in a shower of blood.

HUGE BLOOD SMEARED INCISORS appear, as do the red-slicked

ape- like lips. The gaping bloody mouth bites again into

the rat.

CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

In the background we hear Jay Leno s monologue from the

Tonight Show. A small lamp and the glow from a computer

screen illuminates SEBASTIAN CAINE, late twenties with

the shabby good looks of a perpetual grad-student. Wiry

framed and wearing only boxer shorts, Sebastian sips

coffee from an  Einstein  coffee mug. He peers at a

complex computer rendered molecule displayed on his

screen. He pecks a few keys and the molecule shifts

slightly, then falls apart.

Sebastian pulls a twinkie from a hostess box, unwraps the

cellophane and sucks it down. He attacks the keyboard

with renewed vigor.

Another molecule appears on the screen. Sebastian s

fingers fly across the keyboard. The molecule blinks on

and off, it trembles and twists apart.

Sebastian pears out his window. Across the courtyard, a

light comes on in a neighboring window. He sees a

BRUNETTE, mid-twenties, absolutely stunning, enter her

living room. The Brunette thumbs through the mail, tosses

it and then begins to undress. Sebastian loans over to

the window, getting interested. But when the brunette

reaches her bra and panties, she crosses to the window

and lowers her shades.

Sebastian leans back in his chair and closes his eyes.

He s obviously tired. He opens his eyes and stares up at

the ceiling. Painted across the white matte finish in big

red letters is a brief reminder -  You Should Be

Working.  Sebastian sighs, leans forward and begins

pecking away again.

The television is now only static. We pan by his alarm

clock. 4 am. We find Sebastian pacing in front of his

computer.

He gets an idea... slides back in his chair. Types away

again. The molecule reforms on the computer screen.

He types a few more keys, waits, watches the molecule.

Nothing happens.

He hits a few more keys and watches intently for a

reaction.

He hits a few more keys and a telephone keypad appears on

the screen. He dials.

CUT TO:

INT. ANOTHER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Digital phone rings.

In the bed, LINDA FOSTER, late twenties, stirs from a

deep sleep. As she straggles out of bed and over to her

desk, we notice a young man sleeping next to her.

The ringing continues. She moves her computer mouse

around and her screen comes to life. She click on a

telephone icon and the ringing stops. A beat later,

Sebastian appears in a window on her screen.

INTERCUT: SEBASTIAN S BEDROOM

Sebastian peers at the image of Linda in the computer

window. He notices something behind her in the bed, the

young man sleeping face down.

Linda pulls the camera off the top of the of the computer

screen and positions it so Sebastian can t see the bed.

Upon hearing this, Linda receives a jolt of adrenaline.

Sebastian hits a couple of keys. A moment later the

molecular structure appears on Linda s computer.

ON LINDA S COMPUTER SCREEN as Sebastian clicks off. Linda

crosses to her bed, and shakes the guy awake.

DR. MATTHEW KENSINGTON, late 20s too, stirs from under

sheets.

Matt bolts up.

Matt pulls his jeans on.

EXT. WASHINGTON D.C. SKYLINE - DAY

From a distance, the Nation s Monuments stand awash in

the harsh light of morning.

CAMERA finds a BLACK PORSCHE as it pulls to the security

fence of a warehouse. The imposing structure is

surrounded by a chainlink fence and barbed wire.

The Porsche is waved through security and heads straight

into the warehouse.

INT. WAREHOUSE -DAY

The Porsche pulls to a halt in a reserved parking space

and Sebastian exits, wearing a Hawaiian shirt, shorts,

and Birkenstocks. He notes the other cars parked in the

lot, then crosses to bunker in the center of the

warehouse, guarded by a MARINE, shouldering an M-16.

Sebastian presses his thumb against a glass screen. A

laser reads his print.

Scan readout: CAINE, SEBASTIAN

Clearance:    ALPHA ALPHA THREE

Division:	CLASSIFIED

The doors whisk open and Sebastian steps inside.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Inside the elevator is a numberless keypad. Sebastian

taps in his floor code.

The elevator descends with a groaning hum. It passes

below us and keeps descending into the belly of the

earth, the shaft goes down forever.

INT. HABITAT S CORRIDOR

We slowly push down a hallway panelled by Plexiglas

chambers. Each chamber looks as if it s tailored for a

specific animal, although no animals are visible.

As we pass one habitat, something slams into the

Plexiglas and begins barking. Another HOWL joins in. Then

SCREECHING. Suddenly the hallway fills with a dozen

animal cries. THUMP.

THUMP.

The Plexiglas on several chambers vibrates as if angry

animals were slamming against it. But still, no animals

are seen.

Above each chamber, VIDEO SCREENS display THERMAL IMAGES

revealing heat signatures of the various animals, but

they remain invisible to the naked eye. MATT taps on a

sheet of Plexiglas which seals off another seemingly

empty cage.

The woodchips on the floor shift and suddenly the

Plexiglas steams up right in front of Matt s face. The

Plexiglas begins to shake violently.

Matt takes a pair of thermal goggles from his belt and

pulls them down over his eyes.

THERMAL POV - A rather large heat signature, ape-like in

shape, rattles about the cage. Matt slowly unlatches the

Plexiglas door and reaches inside.

THERMAL POV - he reaches out to the creature. He grabs

hold of it, firmly. Stroking it. The creature COOS. Matt

reaches for a hypo and brings it up to the creature.

Something clamps down on his hand, breaking his skin.

Blood erupts in a bite pattern.

Matt drops the hypo and falls back. The cage door flies

open and something runs out. Matt pulls himself up to see

the heat signature running down the hallway. He turns

around to see another heat signature coming at him. Matt

pulls off his goggles to see Linda coming up the

Corridor.

Linda takes the goggles from Matt.

Linda opens a lock-box at the end of the hallway and

pulls out a two tranquilizer guns. She hands one to Matt.

AROUND THE CORNER

A slight distortion shimmers as something runs past us.

We hear HOOTS and FOOTSTEPS.

Looking down the shadowy corridor, we hear grunting and a

haunting heavy breathing. The control door is closed

though and something large and angry is throwing itself

against it. We can t see anything.

A few moments later, Linda and Matt round the corner,

wearing goggles and leveling their pistols.

THERMAL POV - Dark hallway. Movement. A red shimmering

heat signature. It comes running at Linda. HOWLING. Linda

fires. A T-DART flies. Thwack... It stops in mid-air.

Then falls. But it doesn t hit the floor. Instead, it

stops inches above the ground.

THERMAL POV - the heat signature lies in a heap at

Linda s feet.

Like a smug gunfighter, Linda blows imaginary smoke from

the top of her tranquilizer gun.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

The elevator doors open and Sebastian steps out. He s met

by SARAH KENNEDY, early thirties, a fiery red-head.

Linda comes down the corridor, listening in on the tail

end of the conversation.

She says ...

... but somehow it feels like  Fuck you.  She storms off.

Sebastian turns to Linda.

CUT TO:

CLOSE ON: MATT as he shuts off the spinning cyclotron. As

it s spinning slows to a halt, he pops the top and

reaches in, removing...

A GLOWING VIAL OF ORANGE LIQUID.

Sebastian peers at the vial.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Almost feels like a dungeon. Think high-tech

Frankenstein. Walls lined with video displays, technical

readouts, bizarre medical equipment.

On a table in the middle of the room, a sheet drapes over

a humanoid form, strapped down at it s invisible limbs.

The straps move slightly... ghostly. Wires lead from the

body to lots of machinery.

Sarah, checks over the various readouts ... heartbeat,

blood pressure, the rest.

CARTER ABBEY, the late thirties lab assistant, wheels in

a cart of equipment. Linda taken a seat by the table and

pushes aside the sheet.

Sebastian glance up at a glass booth overlooking the

Laboratory floor. TWO PEOPLE in the booth.

INT. OBSERVATION BOOTH

FRANK CHASE, early thirties, and tech expert JANICE

WALTON, early twenties, man a small booth above the lab.

They re dressed more like band roadies than scientists.

The room is crammed with electronic and recording

equipment. A handful of monitors display different images

of the lab. Thermal and regular video. Another screen

monitors vital signs.

Frank and Janice looks down on their colleagues.

Sebastian nods their way.

Frank hits a series of buttons and speaks into a

microphone. Recording.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Frank s voice echoes through the chamber.

Linda removes a glowing vial of orange liquid from a

centrifuge nearby.

Matt unwraps a hypodermic needle and jabs the needle into

the vial, drawing up the colored liquid.

INT. OBSERVATION BOOTH

Frank and Janice monitor Isabelle s vitals.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Tension in the air.

She wraps a bungee cord around nothing and pulls it

tight. She then takes some dye and sprays it. A surface

appears, floating beneath the restraints. It sheens in

the light as Linda searches for a vein. She slaps the

surface several times. A small bulge appears, like a

vein.

Matt lowers the hypo to the vein. But Sebastian takes the

hypo from Matt s hand.

Matt relinquishes the needle.

Sebastian lowers the hypo. The skin bonds and gives. The

needle remains in sight after it slips through the

visible surface. Matt presses down on the hypo plunger,

releasing a dye into his bloodstream. The gold liquid

twists into a long snaking tube up and down the limb.

It s the shape of a vein. The liquid begins to react.

Small flashes of light blip up and down the strand of

color. Ba-bump.. ba-bump... the heartbeat starts to speed

up.

INT. OBSERVATION BOOTH

Janice analyzes the screens.

INT. LABORATORY

The glowing liquid turns from gold to red as the complex

webbing of a bloodstream appears.

Spreading out from the bloodstream, soon becomes

visible.. the shadow of a skeletal system.

Matt pulls the sheet back. Muscles are beginning to

appear. And eyeballs. Frightened eyeballs.

Sarah soothes her.

Isabelle starts to struggle against her restraints. She

begins to howl.

The brain appears, seemingly growing from the inside out.

The shape of a large half-formed monkey grows from the

inside out. A SKULL APPEARS howling in pain, in horror.

Sarah checks her monitors.

Carter charges the crash cart and rolls it in.

Her machine flatlines.

The body is only half there. It looks as if its caught in

decomposition. Linda rubs the cardiac paddles together.

Linda slams the paddles on the monkey s chest. The jolt

of electricity makes the monkey visible again for a brief

moment. Then the skin and flesh fade away again.

The heartbeat starts up again. The body continues its

march toward,visibility.

Everybody s pulling for her.

Muscles spread like a rash on bone as the monkey twists

and turns, frightened. Then skin. The monkey howls. Skin

forms over the muscles reappearing like it was being

painted on before our eyes.

The entire form glows, then blinks, then glows again, as

if it was discharging some stored energy.

The monkey grunts and groans. Blinks its eyes. Linda

hovers over it stroking its fur.

Sebastian puts his hand on Linda s shoulder... a move

that does not go unnoticed by Matt. We did it.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. HABITAT

Frank, Matt, Sarah, Janice and Linda watch Isabelle rise

and walk about the cage. She goes over to the other

monkeys and joins in their grooming rituals.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The fanciest one in D.C.

The entire eight person team sits around a round table,

drunk and laughing, as the last champagne flute is

filled.

Sebastian raises his glass.

A round of "Hear, hears" and they all clink glasses and

drink.

EXT. RESTAURANT BALCONY - LATER

The din of the diners fades away as Linda slips out onto

the restaurant's balcony. She find Sebastian leaning

against a railing, breathing in the night air.

He looks out over the sweep of the city, the twinkling

lights of D.C. and darkness of the Potomac river.

She puts her hand on his shoulder.

Sebastian heads back inside. But he stops and turns back.

Her look says it all. Too much water under the bridge.

He turns and heads back into the party. As he heads in he

passes Matt heading out. He and Sebastian exchange

"Heys".

CUT TO:

INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

Sebastian wanders through the empty hallways of the

laboratory.

INT. HALLWAY OF HABITATS - NIGHT

Sebastian paces back and forth, examining the habitats.

He taps on the Plexiglas of one. The cubicle explodes

with

BARKING.

We see the Plexi steam up in one part, as if something

was breathing on it. As if a nose were pressed against

it.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. PENTAGON - DAY

Flying over Washington D. C. , we cross the Potomac and

circle the five-cornered building, looking particularly

gloomy on this grey day.

INT. PENTAGON CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

At the table are six men. A handful of senior military

brass and top civilian advisors direct their attention to

the front of the room, where Sebastian, flanked by Matt

and Linda, is in the middle of his presentation.

Next to Sebastian a video shows a small monkey shifting

from the visible spectrum. It's hair, skin, organs and

skeletons slowly dissolve before our eyes.

Sebastian fast forwards a few moments until the video

screen shows the bizarrely tangled heap of flesh and bone

that used to be alive.

Sebastian pauses. Something's bothering him.

One of the senior advisers, DR. HARRY KRAMER,

distinguished 50s, finally breaks the silence.

Linda and Matt look up at Sebastian expectantly.

Linda starts to speak, but Sebastian cuts her off with a

look.

Frustrated sighs all around the room.

EXT. PENTAGON - DAY

As Linda, Matt and Sebastian head to their cars.

They reach his Porsche.

INT. LABORATORY CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

The team sits around the conference table. Their jaws

drop and they stare at him with wide eyes.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S OFFICE

A knock on the door.

Linda pushes into the room and closes the door behind

her.

Sebastian shrugs and nods.

Sebastian smiles.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Linda and Matt are in bed together. Matt kisses her way

up and down her arm. But Linda is distracted.

Matt props himself up on the pillow.

Linda thinks about it. It's still tempting.

Matt goes back to kissing Linda.

Matt groans and rolls over.

INT. MEDICAL EXAMINING ROOM - DAY

Sebastian stripped to his shorts paces nervously. A knock

on the door.

Matt sticks his head in.

Sebastian nervously shakes his limbs out. Then nods.

Matt leads him into the hallway.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

As they walk down the corridor toward the lab...

INT. LABORATORY

Sebastian shoots Matt a look.

The buzz of conversation is punctuated by an amplified

HEARTBEAT, thumping its familiar rhythm. Bah-bump.

Bah-bump. In the center of the room, Sebastian, dressed

only in a pair of jogging shorts is strapped to a table

inclined at a 45 degree angle. Electrodes are strapped to

his body. An I.V. tube snakes from the needle in his vein

up to a bag of saline solution. Dripping slowly. Linda

makes last minute checks of some of the equipment. She

pats Sebastian on the shoulder.

Sarah checks his vitals.

Linda takes a moment and studies Sebastian's face. She's

almost teary eyed.

Linda nods. Back to business.

INT. OBSERVATION BOOTH.

Janice hits record on the equipment decks.

Frank coordinates all the data being fed into the

computers. He pushes a series of buttons and speaks into

a microphone.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Frank's voice echoes through the chamber.

Matt jabs a hypodermic into small vial of colored liquid.

Draws up 20ccs.

Linda takes the hypo from Matt.

She hands the hypo Sebastian and steps away. Sebastian

stares at the golden formula silently for a moment.

He shakes his head.

Then... Back to business. He inserts the needle into the

I.V. Sebastian. Presses into himself and depresses the

plunger.

The colored liquid snakes it's way into his bloodstream.

They wait and watch.

Another moment passes by.

Another moment passes.

Sebastian shoots Carter a questioning look.

Another long pause. Sebastian concentrates.

Excitement overtakes the room.

Slowly the flesh on Sebastian's arm begins dissolving,

revealing the complex network of nerves, blood vessels

and flesh beneath it.

The HEART BEAT thumps faster, accelerating

Carter grabs the crash cart, rolls it in. Matt tears off

the I.V. leads into Sebastian's arms.

INT. OBSERVATION BOOTH

All the monitors are going crazy.

Frank leans into the microphone.

INT. LABORATORY

Sebastian screams in dire pain. He struggles against his

restraints as his skin liquefies into a muscular mass.

It's like something's eating away at him. Gruesome. The

yells become louder and more painful to hear.

The muscular system begins to dissolve, leaving a

struggling skeleton wrapped with tentacular blood vessels

and stuffed with the major organs. The beating heart, the

heaving lungs.

Screaming.... Then the organs go. Then the blood vessels.

Leaving only a skeleton howling in pain. The jawbones

spread wide ... Screaming... screaming...

Then as if someone had poured acid all over the bones,

the skeleton evaporates into nothingness.

There is NOTHING left of Sebastian Caine.

The screaming continues and the restraints continue to

twist and turn. Suddenly the restraints go limp.

Linda checks the readouts.

A long beat as everybody's eyes stare at the instruments.

A long beat.

A reverent pause as Linda runs her fingers over what

would be his skin. Small electrical charge dance around

her fingertips. She gasps.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER

The chamber is half constructed out of Plexiglas at the

end of the Hallway of Habitats.

On the recovery bed, a sheet drapes over Sebastian's

invisible body. The gentle bleatings of medical machinery

pound out a dulling rhythm.

Linda sleeps in a corner chair as Matt slips into the

room. He checks the readouts on Sebastian then takes a

seat by Linda. She wakes with a start.

Linda rubs her temples and gestures to the bed.

She notices something out of the corner of his eye. The

sheet twitches.

The sheet twitches again.

Linda and Matt watch intently. Then suddenly... the

sheets thrash violently. A yell of pain.

Linda jumps up and crosses to Sebastian. Matt rushes to

the wall and turns off the lights. Darkness. The room is

lit by the glow of machinery.

The sheets slowly stop thrashing.

The sheet rises and slips away. The wires, seemingly

connected to thin air, spread out like a spider's web and

then fall away one-by-one. The monitors all go dead.

Matt motions to a dark corner of the room, toward a

mirror and sink. We push in on the mirror. No reflection.

Suddenly it fogs up ... Sebastian's breath. A finger

tracing appears in the fog ... but of course we see no

finger. The sink faucet twists on and water runs. It cups

into the shape of hands and lifts into the air, splashing

against the surface of Sebastian's face. Beads of water

cling to his f ace, outlining it I shape f or a moment

before dripping away.

Sebastian's voice is now behind him. Matt turns around.

Linda realizes that he's standing very close by. Her hair

lifts slightly and Sebastian inhales. Chills go down her

spine.

Linda's hair drops back to her shoulders.

He bumps into a chair.

A moment of silence.

No answer. Linda and Matt look at each other, slightly

alarmed.

An indentation forms on the bed a moment later.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Carter, Frank, Janice and Sarah work at various research

stations. The door opens and Linda and Matt enter.

Linda motions to the gap between her and Matt. The four

of them stare at the nothing.

They turn round. The voice is coming from behind them.

The group rises from their various workstations and turn

toward where the voice came from.

A rheostat switch on the wall turns and the lights dim.

Though it's a simple act, it feels somewhat ominous.

Linda's explanation puts everyone at ease.

Sebastian has moved. As everyone turns toward him again,

he can't stifle a slight giggle.

His voice again come s from somewhere else in the room.

Frank pulls on a pair of THERMAL GOGGLES.

THERMAL POV - Every body in the laboratory shows up as a

heat signature, including Sebastian. Frank points.

THERMAL POV - The HEAT SIGNATURE reaches for a chair.

A chair slides back from a desk and bends under

Sebastian's weight.

CUT TO:

INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

Frank and Janice shuttle the playback controls as a VIDEO

MONITOR re-plays various angles of Sebastian's phase

shift.

Frank halts the tape.

Janice scribble the numbers in her notebook. Linda

crosses, nursing a cup of coffee.

Heavy sigh.

INT. THE RECOVERY ROOM - NIGHT

As Linda enters she points to a small camera in the upper

corner of the room.

It's clear she does. But she's certainly not going to

admit it.

CUT TO:

CLOSE ON: A video screen. A thermal lump lays stretched

out on the bed.

Pull back to reveal SARAH staring at the screen. We are.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

A bank of monitors display the various angles of the Hall

of Habitats, the laboratory and, of course, Sebastian in

the recovery room.

Linda hands Sarah a cup of coffee.

Through the glass wall, Linda sees Matt knocking and

waving her out.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The rest of the team straggles into the elevator.

Yawning. Exhausted from the day.

Linda catches Matt's eye. Gives him a look. "You coming

over?" Matt nods, "yes", imperceptible to everyone but

Linda. She smiles.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

Deserted and dark.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Late. Sarah rubs her temples. Her eyelids are heavy.

She's having real trouble staying awake. The buzzing

fluorescent light isn't helping either.

INT. RECOVERY ROOM - NIGHT

The sheets ruffle and the indentation disappears from the

bed. We can hear breathing and soft sound of bare feet

shuffling against linoleum.

CAMERA SLOWLY PANS toward the door, as if we, are

following someone walking.

The door handle turns and the door pushes open.

INT. HALLWAY OF HABITATS - NIGHT

WE SLOWLY TRACK DOWN the Hallway of the Habitats. We hear

the sounds of sleeping creatures. A couple of them growl

at something unseen. The growling follows the invisible

something as it passes by.

INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

The laboratory door opens and shuts again. Ghostly. We

see papers shuffling at one of the work stations. A glass

moves slightly.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Sarah reclines in her chair. Fast asleep, Behind her is

the glass wall, revealing the empty hallway behind it.

But a small portion of the glass fogs, as if someone had

just breathed on it. As the fogged part quickly clears,

we see the door to the observation room quietly open.

ON SARAH, still sleeping. We hear a whisper.

Her heavy breathing mixes with Sebastian's.

Sarah's hair moves slightly, as if a hand were running

through it. And then we see her shirt move, like fingers

were tracing over it. Down from the shoulder to her

breast. Around her nipple. Sarah moans slightly, as if

she were dreaming, but she doesn't stir. And then her

breasts cup slightly, as if they were being touched...

softly... gently. Her breathing becomes harder, more

labored, erotic... and then she... BOLTS AWAKE. Bar eyes

wide with fear. She jumps and cups her own breasts and

looks around the room. It's empty, of course. She jumps

over to the monitor and checks on Sebastian's room. The

heat signature isn't there.

She listens. It's silent. She tries holding her breath,

listening for his breathing. But there's nothing.

Sarah reaches over to a microphone. Hits a few switches.

VARIOUS SHOTS OF THE COMPOUND

- LABORATORY

- HALLWAY OF HABITATS

INT. OBSERVATION BOOTH - CONTINUOUS

Sarah waits. No response.

She looks around the room. He must be in here.

Nothing. No response. Sarah waves her hand around,

reaching out, trying to find him. After a few beats she

stops and rubs her head.

Suddenly, Sarah gets an idea. She quickly exits the

observation room.

EXT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

At a wall storage box, she removes a pair of Thermal

Goggles and slips them on.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Sarah enters wearing the thermals. She scans the room.

THERMAL POV - The room is empty.

She pulls the goggles off in frustration, and when she

glances over at the video screen, she sees Sebastian's

thermal image lying on the bed in the recovery room.

Sarah sinks into her chair, a tad disconcerted.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - MORNING

Linda and Matt finish listening to Sarah's story.

INT. RESEARCH LAB - DAY

Sebastian, wearing surgical scrubs sits in an examination

chair. Wire leads sprout from the electrodes covering his

head and arms. The electrodes seem to outline his body.

As Sebastian talks, we can see the electrodes around his

jaw pump up and down.

Machines pump out EEG, EKG readouts. Matt studies them.

CUT TO:

Sarah rolls up Sebastian's sleeve, revealing empty air.

She wraps a bungee cord around the nothing, pulls it

tight and sprays the inside of his elbow with dye. She

acts very self conscious.

The surface of his skin sheens in the light as Linda

searches for a vein. She slaps his arm several times,

then plunges a hypodermic needle into his skin. His skin

bends and gives. The needle remains in sight after it

slips through the visible surface. Sarah presses down on

the hypo plunger, releasing a dye into his bloodstream.

The red dye twists into a long snaking red tube up and

down his arm. His vein.

Sarah draws the plunger back, sucking Sebastian's blood

into the hypodermic and then yanks the needle out.

Sarah pulls the vial off the needle and labels it with a

grease pencil. After a few beats the red dye in

Sebastian's blood stream dissolves and disappears, as

does the liquid in the vial.

TESTING MONTAGE

INT. MRI ROOM

MATT slides Sebastian's sheet covered frame into an MRI.

Even though his head is not visible, it shown up on the

MRI scanner.

INT. MAIN LABORATORY

CARTER and SARAH lower a harness into a water tank.

SEBASTIAN'S BODY displaces the water, revealing an empty

body shaped cavity in the water.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

CARTER sips a BIG GULP and stares at a monitor which

shows two eat signatures in the Recovery Chamber, huddled

over a chess game.

INT. RECOVER CHAMBER

on a chessboard... A BLACK KNIGHT takes WHITE BISHOP,

seemingly all by itself.

Across the table, Matt leans back and topples his WHITE

KING acknowledging defeat.

INT. SPECTRAL LAB

Dim lights. Janice and Frank both don eye guards. Frank

switches on a low intensity laser on and it's beam shoots

across the room. The beam distorts slightly in the center

of the room. As Frank widens the spectral pattern,

suddenly the beam splits into a million different

spectral rainbows, momentary illuminating Sebastian's

entire frame in a glowing tingle of light.

INT. MAIN LABORATORY

LINDA pulls vials from the cyclotrons and props blood

sample slides. She slips them under the microscope. She

takes a sip of her Diet Coke and puts it on the table.

She pears into the microscope and analyses the blood

sample, squeezing more stain onto it. She looks up to

make notations, but when she reaches for her Diet Coke IT

ISN'T THERE. She looks around. It's on the other side of

her microscope. She shrugs it off, she takes a sip and

sets it down where it was before. She peers into the

microscope again and when she looks up... the Diet Coke

is gone. She looks around the room and sees it on another

table completely.

We hear Sebastian's laughter echo in the room.

We see indentations on her shoulders where his fingers

press down.

Linda pulls away from him.

Linda walks away. Sebastian laughs.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

A bevy of activity below us as the scientists prepare.

Matt slides the antigen cocktail into the centrifuge and

starts it spinning.

A sheet drapes over a Sebastian's frame, straps across

his limbs. He is fully wired.

Linda looks up to the observation booth.

Frank peers down at her from the booth, his voice echoing

through the chamber.

Matt removes the glowing vial of orange liquid from a

centrifuge nearby. Carter hands Matt a hypo. Matt jabs it

into the vial, drawing up the colored liquid. Linda

sprays Sebastian's arm with dye.

Matt inserts the hypo into the vein and presses down on

the plunger. The liquid begins to react. Small flashes of

light blip up and down the strand of color outlining the

vein.

Ba-bump.. ba-bump... the heartbeat starts to speed up.

INT. OBSERVATION BOOTH

Janice and Frank look over the equipment.

INT. LABORATORY

The glowing liquid turns from gold to red as the complex

webbing of a bloodstream appears.

Spreading out from the bloodstream, soon becomes visible

... the shadow of a skeletal system.

Sebastian begins wheezing.

Muscles are beginning to appear. And eyeballs. Frightened

eyeballs.

Sebastian pulls against his bonds. One set tears off.

Carter grabs onto the mass of flesh and muscle, trying to

hold it back. But the restraints snap. The half-visible

man is screaming. He grabs Carter and throws him across

the room.

And just for a second, Sebastian is fully visible. And

free. He looks around like a scared animal and rips off

all the wiring.

Sarah preps a tranquilizer. Sebastian locks eyes with

Linda. He's lost, he doesn't know where he is. And

suddenly, he crumbles to the ground. Linda rushes over to

him and puts bar hand on his shoulder. Light bleeds from

his skin and his skin begins to dissolve from sight.

Matt, Linda and Sarah pull the shifting body up and onto

an operating table. Carter pulls himself up and heads

back to the group.

Carter locates Sebastian's heart, not a difficult thing

because we can actually see it. Carter's hand pushes down

in the air inches above the heart. We see the heart being

pushed and squeezed. Sarah slaps an air bag on Sebastian

and starts pumping air into his lungs. Sebastian's heart

begins to beat again, beat on its own.

We slowly FADE OUT to the sights and sounds of our

scientist- doctors working on Sebastian... And the

beeping of Sebastian's erratic heartbeat.

A HABITAT

The heartbeat continues. In the shadows, two Rhesus

Monkeys defend themselves against an unseen attacker.

Blood splatters against the Plexiglas wall.

We FADE OUT AGAIN...

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Linda stares through the Plexiglas walls into the

Recovery Chamber. Inside the Chamber, Sarah and Carter-

eye the various screens monitoring Sebastian's vitals.

Linda watches the hollow pocket underneath the blanket.

She watches the rhythm of its rises and falls as

Sebastian sleeps. Matt comes up behind her.

Linda exhales in relief. Matt puts his hands on her

shoulder. Pulls her close to him.

She pulls away.

Linda pushes through the door of the recovery chamber and

takes a seat by Sebastian's bedside. A little hurt, Matt

heads down the corridor.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM

Frank and Janice are staring into their coffee when Matt

enters. Matt crosses to the coffee machine and pours

himself a cup. He takes a seat at the table. They all

drink their coffee in silent vigil.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - DAY

Linda sits by Sebastian's bedside, listening to the

constant rhythm of the machines.

The sheets shift.

Linda shakes her head.

Sebastian's voice is weak and strained.

Linda smiles.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - DAY

In a dusty shaft of light...

A cotton swab.

is dipped by a gloved hand into a jar of flesh-colored

cream make-up. We follow the hand as it raises the cotton

swab into the darkness. The swab strokes over the black

and the rich fleshy cream spreads, revealing...

EYE LIDS of a closed eye.

The eyelids part, unveiling...

PITCH BLACK. Blink. Blink.

No eye.

Not even a trace of a eye socket. Just darkness.

A COLORED CONTACT LENS floats through mid-air... hovering

before the eyelids. It turns and fastens itself to the

darkness between the lids.

We PULL BACK slowly as Sebastian lifts a latex FACE MASK

and pulls it over his head.

He checks his reflection in the mirror. He looks almost

human. Almost. A face, eyes, hands ... the rest of him

covered by surgical scrubs.

We pull back and see the rest of the team looking on.

Sebastian rises. He looks eerily removed from reality

with his cold blank expression.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

SERIES OF SHOTS

Carter draws blood from Sebastian.

Samples are placed into the cyclotron.

Matt peers through the eyepiece of a microscope. He makes

notes.

Frank and Janice finish a computer simulation on a

protein strand. Matt looks over. They shake their heads,

no.

Sebastian slides into the MRI.

Linda examines a petri dish. She throws her pencil down

in frustration.

Sebastian is hit by the spectral radiation beams.

Matt pulls a vial of orange liquid from the cyclotron.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Sebastian, still in his latex and scrubs, but looking

like he's been dragged through the nine levels of

purgatory, is escorted back to the recovery chamber by

Linda and Matt.

He crosses to his bed and collapses on it. Closes his

eyes.

Linda and Matt exchange a glance. Linda quickly covers.

INT. RESEARCH COMPOUND - NIGHT

Various shots of the empty hallways and deserted labs.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Carter kicks back in his chair listening to his walkman

stereo and playing gameboy.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - DAY

Sebastian, in scrubs and make-up, paces back and forth.

He slams the wall in frustration. He crosses to a mirror

and examines himself. He doesn't look half bad. He pokes

his cheeks. There's something about him that's a little

off, but only if you look close.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

A shadow falls across Carter's face. He looks up. It's

Sebastian wearing street clothes - jeans and a hooded

sweatshirt over his latex mask.

Carter pulls of his earphones.

Sebastian turns back into the hallway.

Carter scrambles to his feet.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Carter catches up with Sebastian.

Sebastian hits the elevator button. The doors open.

The elevator doors close with Sebastian inside. Shit.

Carter runs down the corridor.

INT OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Carter picks up the phone and dials.

A beat then.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The elevator doors open and Sebastian pushes past the

Marine Guard.

Sebastian keeps his face turned away as he crosses to his

Porsche.

Sebastian starts his car. It chugs a few times before

turning over and speeding out of the warehouse.

INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

The door opens and Sebastian switches on the lights.

He looks around his apartment and sighs. It's good to be

home.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sebastian enters the bedroom, clicking on the light. He

looks at the ceiling, "You Should Be Working", and

smiles.

INT. LINDA'S APARTMENT BUILDING, PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

Linda and Matt each rush to their respective cars.

Matt tries to give her a quick pack. Linda backs away.

They get in their cars.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sebastian packs up a few personal belongings in an

overnight duffle. He crosses to his bookcase and pulls

out some books and throws them into the bag.

But as he does, he notices a light come on in the window

across the courtyard. Sebastian turns off his bedroom

light and moves toward the window. He peers across the

courtyard into the Brunette's apartment.

He watches the Brunette as she comes into the living room

from her front hallway. She drops her keys on the table

and begins unbuttoning her blouse as she crosses to the

window. Just as the blouse slips off her shoulder, she

pulls her blinds shut.

Frustrated, Sebastian steps away from the window and then

stops. Something has occurred to him.

He looks down and notices his hand is trembling. His

breathing is a little heavy. A little nervous. He catches

a glimpse at himself in the mirror.

The Brunette's living room light switches off and the

bathroom light switches on. We see him fighting an

internal battle and we see him lose it. He grabs a hold

of his hand and peels the latex skin off.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Linda drives Sebastian's apartment. She spots his black

Porsche in the parking lot. She pulls over to the curb,

jumps out of her car and heads into the building.

INT. BRUNETTE'S APARTMENT, BATHROOM - NIGHT

Wearing just a robe, the brunette turns on her shower.

The doorbell rings. With a frustrated sigh, the brunette

rises.

AT THE FRONT DOOR

She peers through the peep hole. No one's there. But as

she turns she hears the doorbell again. She opens the

door, steps out into the hallway and looks around. Empty.

Puzzled she heads back inside her apartment.

We follow her as she crosses to her bedroom, but a moment

later, the bedroom door closes on its own.

We hear a SCREAM come from the other side. Then another.

Then a muffled struggled. And we...

CUT TO:

INT. HALLWAY, SEBASTIAN BUILDING - NIGHT

Linda exits the elevator and heads down to Sebastian's

door. She knocks. Waits. No answer. She knocks again.

Waits.

And then she tries the door. It's unlocked. She pushes

the door open.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Linda pushes through the living room, into the bedroom.

She notices that the bathroom light is on.

BATHROOM

On the floor she finds Sebastian's clothing and on the

vanity she sees his latex face and hands.

She scramble for the bedroom phone and quickly dials.

As she hangs up the phone, and heads out. The CAMERA

doesn't follow, but instead pushes through the blinds and

out the window. As we cross the courtyard, we begin to

hear muffled cries of terror. We hold on the Brunette's

window as we...

CUT TO:

INT. BRUNETTE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The bedroom door opens and we see the Brunette, nude and

curled up on the bed, sobbing. We follow the sounds of

heavy breathing to the front door of her apartment. The

door opens and we push out into the hallway. We can see

indentations of feet appear on the hallway carpet.

INT. CORRIDOR BY SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT

The elevator doors open and Linda steps inside. The doors

close shut behind her. A beat later we see the

indentations of footsteps come around the corner. We

follow the breathing and stumbling footfalls back into...

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

We push over to the bathroom sink. The faucet turns on

and the water starts running.

We see the water cup under the faucet and splash against

Sebastian's face. His face appears briefly in the water.

Then the water slips away.

For second it sounds like he's crying, but then we hear

something far worse. He's laughing. Nervous laughter.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Matt hands out thermal goggles, while Frank loads and

passes out tranquilizer guns.

They all turn around. At the door is Sebastian, back in

his latex outfit.

Caught dead to rights, Sebastian sinks into his chair. He

thinks she knows.

Sebastian realizes that they don't know.

A long beat. Sebastian slowly rises, acknowledges Linda

with a nod and leaves the room. Linda looks around at her

silent co-workers, the goggles and tranqs still on the

table.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

The Lab is buzzing with the usual activity. Linda rolls

up Sebastian's sleeve, revealing nothing.

She wraps a bungee cord around the nothing and pulls it

tight. She then sprays the inside of his elbow with dye.

The surface of his skin sheens in the light as Linda

searches for a vein. She slaps his arm several times,

then plunges a hypodermic needle into his skin.

Linda presses down on the hypodermic plunger, releasing a

dye into his bloodstream.

He knocks her arm away and pulls the hypo, out of his

arm.

Sebastian looks around at the other scientists staring at

him. He tosses the hypo with the needle onto the

instrument tray and heads toward the door.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - NIGHT

Linda enters to find Sebastian reading the collected

works of T.S. Elliot.

Linda looks over his shoulder.

He puts the books down.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - LATER

Sebastian paces back and forth, glancing at the camera.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Linda, Matt and Sebastian, in latex and scrubs, stare at

an electron microscope's video display. On the screen in

a sparse colony of blood calls but every second more and

more cells appear, filling the gap.

The others in the lab listen. They start to get excited.

Janice and Carter leave their research and come over to

watch the screen.

They wait. Linda points to a blank patch on the screen.

But the blood cells nearest the blank patch twinkle out

existence, and then those around them also blink away

until after a beat, the screen is empty.

Sebastian picks up a glass beaker and hurls it against

the wall. It shatters.

He grabs more equipment and begins tossing it in a rage.

Carter and Janice grab him and restrain him. After

struggling against them a beat or two, Sebastian calms

down and pushes away from them and heads out the door.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - NIGHT

CUT TO:

Sebastian lies in his bed, staring at the security

camera. The camera stares back at him.

As if from a dream, we hear the Brunette's muffled scream

and cries for help. As we push in on Sebastian's cold

eyes, we can barely make out her face thrashing back in

forth in panic and confusion.

Sebastian suddenly rises.

He crosses to the video camera and examines a small panel

on the underneath of the camera.

He reaches into a box of twinkies and pulls out one of

the sponge cakes and begins munching. He hits the

intercom button on the phone.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Frank eyes Sebastian in the monitor.

He watches as Sebastian's heat signature moves toward the

door.

INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

In the dark deserted lab, Sebastian pulls together a

circuit board, a computer chip and some wiring. He seems

be assembling something.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - NIGHT

Sebastian crosses underneath the camera... just out of

its range... reaches up and using a screwdriver, unscrews

the access panel. He scans the electronics and attaches

two alligator clips to wires on the circuit board.

Trailing a long length of wire, Sebastian crosses back to

his bed and lies down. He holds a black project box with

a button on it. He lies perfectly still and press the

button.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

The video image of the Recovery Chamber flickers

slightly, before returning to normal.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - NIGHT

Sebastian rises and begins to peel off his latex.

INT. HALLWAY OF HABITATS - NIGHT

Sebastian's POV - Various animals stir restlessly. A DOG,

visible, leaps against the Plexiglas, barking wildly. We

push further down the corridor.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Again, Sebastian's POV as he pushes through the open door

of the observation room. We see Frank sorting through

various computer readouts, highlighting certain coding

sequences.

We push in until we are looking over Frank's shoulder at

the video monitor. According to the video, Sebastian is

sleeping soundly in his room.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - NIGHT

The rewired security camera stares down at the empty bed.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Frank glances over at the video monitor. He can see

Sebastian's heat signature lying in the bed.

Frank feels something on his neck. He flicks whatever it

is away with his hand and goes back to work.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The elevator door opens. The Guard turns around. The

elevator is empty.

INT. METRO STATION, WASHINGTON D.C. - NIGHT

A Metro Subway train draws to a halt. With a cautionary

"BING BONG" its doors slide open. A handful of people

exit and enter. One man bumps shoulders. He turns round

to apologize, but there's no one there. The doors close

and the train pulls out of the station.

EXT. DOWNTOWN D.C. - NIGHT

A couple of pretty girls exit a bar and stumble to their

apartments.

INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

One of the girls enters her apartment. The door half

closes behind her and then reopens and closes again.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - MORNING

Frank's reading a book when Linda and Matt enter.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - DAY

Close on the security camera. The wires have been removed

and the access panel replaced.

Sebastian whistles a cheerful tune as he finishes

applying his makeup. The door opens and Linda and Matt

enter.

Linda hands Sebastian a disk.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER - DAY

Linda pulls bags of frozen plasma from the shelves in the

walk-in storage freezer.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Janice heads up one of the corridors when something on

the floor catches her eye. She bends down and takes a

look at it. Barely visible on the floor is a fragment of

a BAREFOOT FOOTPRINT.

She runs her finger along the dried mud. It turns to

dust.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Sebastian holds his latex head on his lap, while EEG

leads hang suspended in mid-air, outlining his real head.

Carter analyzes the results.

Carter pulls off the electrodes and Sebastian slides on

his latex facemask.

Sebastian gives Carter a sly grin.

INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

Alone, Linda packs up her stuff for the evening.

Slowly we push in on her and hear quiet breathing. We

realize we are in...

SEBASTIAN'S POV

Then ...

Linda-jumps.

As she leaves the Lab, he follows her down the hallway.

EXT. LINDA'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Linda passes through the revolving doors of her apartment

building. A few beats later, as if caught by a gust of

wind, the revolving door slowly turns on its own.

INT. APARTMENT'S HALLWAY - NIGHT

Linda slips into her apartment and the door closes behind

her. A moment later we see the doorknob turn back and

forth. It's locked.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

On a fire escape, we see the ladder shake and descend to

the ground. The metal rattles back and forth as if

something were climbing it.

We slowly crane up the fire escape and hold on a window.

Through the wispy curtains and dirty glass we can see

Linda enter the room. The panel of glass fogs from

Sebastian's breath. The fog wipes away, seemingly by

itself.

But then through the window we see Matt walk into the

living room and put his arms around Linda's waist. We

hear a shocked intake of air.

He kisses her neck and then slowly unzips her dress. Her

dress falls to the floor. Matt takes off his sport coat

and drapes it over a chair, while Linda unfastens the

buttons of his shirt. They're laughing now, exchanging

kisses.

Matt reaches behind Linda and unhooks her bra. He kisses

his way down her neck to her breasts. Linda pulls him to

her.

Suddenly the window shatters. Startled, both Matt and

Linda jump back covering themselves.

We hear Sebastian's footsteps as he retreats down the

fire escape.

A moment later Matt reaches the window and peers out. He

sees the fire escape ladder slowly rise back up down

below.

Matt picks up a piece of glass and examines it.

Linda picks up the phone and dials.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Carter picks up the phone.

Carter looks at the security monitor of the recovery

room. Sebastian's heat signature lies still on the bed.

INT. LINDA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Linda breathes a sigh of relief.

Matt pulls her into him.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - NIGHT

BARKING can be heard in the background. That horrible

repetitive barking that grates the soul like Chinese

water torture.

A photograph of Linda drifts through the air and settles

atop a flaming candle. It ignites into fire, twisting and

turning in mid-air, then falling on the floor as ash. A

beat later water runs from the sink faucet. It forms in

the shape of hands and splashes against his face,

dripping away.

The barking continues. A moment later the chamber door

slides open. We push down the...

HALLWAY OF THE HABITATS

... until we are face-to-face with the unhappy barking

dog.

The Plexiglas door to the doggie's cage swings open and

some invisible force grabs little doggie around the neck.

The force squeezes its little fur ball throat until the

barking stops.

The force keeps squeezing until the little doggie goes

limp. Then the dog smashes against the Plexiglas over and

over until blood spills out its mouth. The Plexiglas door

swings closed again and moments later the door to

Sebastian's cubicle closes as well. The water runs in

Sebastian's sink washing the blood away from his now half

visible hands.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. HABITAT'S CORRIDOR - NEXT MORNING

Sarah sees the dead dog lying prone on its bedding. She

eyes it curiously and opens the cage door.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - LATER

Sarah stares at the empty chamber.

The sheets raise and drape off of him.

Sebastian pulls a sheet around him. He moves across the

dimly lit room like a ghost.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

Sarah sits with Carter as they run through the security

video tape. Matt and Linda look over their shoulder.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - NIGHT

Linda passes Sebastian's chamber. Sebastian's in latex.

Sebastian watches Linda walk away. He glances at the

camera and starts to peel off his face.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The elevator door opens. It's empty.

SEBASTIAN'S POV - as we push past the guard and down onto

the street.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Empty street. We hear whistling. Splashes of water splat

out from shallow puddles,,as Sebastian walks through

them.

SEBASTIAN'S POV - A car approaches. As it drives by we

see Matt and Linda inside, heading back to the warehouse.

The footsteps stop.

We see the footsteps start to head back toward the

warehouse.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Linda and Matt exit their car and cross toward the

elevator.

INT. STREET IN FRONT OF WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

As we watch the footsteps head back through the puddles

toward the warehouse, we see Frank pass us in his car.

He breaks into a run. Feet splash water and he races back

toward the warehouse.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Empty. The elevator door opens and we push out into the

hallway. Sebastian's POV

INT. HALLWAY OF HABITATS - NIGHT

We follow Sebastian down the hallway to his cubicle. But

as he rounds the corner, he quickly ducks back. The

entire research team is in his cubicle. Sebastian slowly

approaches and watches as Frank takes down his video

board.

Linda doesn't know.

Everybody murmurs in agreement.

Sebastian's POV - He backs away and races down the hall.

EXT. DR. KRAMER'S HOUSE - POTOMAC MD - NIGHT

The stately stone house sits on a finely manicured lawn

in one of the nicest neighborhoods in town. Linda's car

is parked on the curb in front.

We break from a typical establishing shot and as the

CAMERA tracks closer to the house, we realize that we are

SEBASTIAN'S POV

We hear breathing and footsteps as we push through some

bushes and head toward a bay window which looks into the

Kramer living room.

Through the glass we see LINDA and MATT seated across

from DR. KRAMER. We can't hear what they're saying but it

certainly looks serious. Kramer puffs on a pipe and

strokes his beard, shaking his head.

Kramer rises and shakes hands with Linda and Matt, and

the three of them head toward the front door.

We move away from the window and track toward the front

door. As the door opens we begin to hear the tail end of

the conversation.

Matt and Linda head down to her car. Kramer heads back

inside.

INT. KRAMER'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Kramer heads back into the living room. His wife appears

a the upstairs railing.

Mrs. Kramer retreats back to her bedroom as Dr. Kramer

crosses over to the telephone. He picks up the receiver

and starts dialing. In the middle of dialing, the phone

goes dead. He clicks the hookswitch up and down trying to

get a dial tone. Nothing. He checks the connections on

the phone and then follows the wiring to the wall. The

line's plugged in. Weird. He hears a door creak open in

the kitchen.

Kramer crosses to the darkened kitchen. The kitchen door

leading to the backyard is open. Puzzled, he crosses to

it. A wind stirs across the pool and backyard, swirling

dead leaves in small twists of wind. The windchime rings

lightly. Kramer steps out.

EXT. POOL/PATIO, BACKYARD - NIGHT

In the dim spillover light from house, Kramer crosses to

the telephone- box against the back of the house. It Is

open and several of the wires have been pulled. He looks

around, spooked and puffs out a cloud of smoke from his

pipe. For the briefest of instants, Sebastian's face is

visible in the smoke. Kramer jumps back in surprise and

the pipe drops from his mouth. He gives a small sharp

cry, but deep indentations appear across his mouth and

his cries are stifled. In the darkness, we can make out

his form writhing as if possessed. The struggle continues

a beat until Kramer manages to break free.

As Kramer runs, he looks behind him. But no one's there.

WHAM! Something slams into Kramer and he tumbles, rolling

into the pool. But as he hits water there's not just one

splash, but TWO. In the water next to him is human shaped

AIR-POCKET. It's Sebastian displacing the water. And

because of the water displacement, we can clearly see two

arms pushing Kramer beneath the water's surface.

MARTHA KRAMER opens the bedroom window and looks down at

the pool. All she can see is her husband drowning... his

flailing limbs kicking up a massive air bubble around

him. She races from the window. Kramer kicks and flails

for a few moments and then his limbs stop moving. A

moment later he floats to surface, face down. The AIR

POCKET bobs over to the pool ladder, and rising from the

pool, we see Sebastian's body outlined in sheets of

water. The shape melts away in a cascading waterfall

until all we can see of Sebastian are the hundreds of

tiny droplets still clinging to his body, caught in the

light like twinkling bulbs on a Christmas tree. The shape

disappears into the darkness. A moment later Martha

emerges from the house and sees her husband floating face

down in the pool. She screams.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER - DAY

Linda passes by Sebastian's chamber.

INT. LINDA'S OFFICE - DAY

Matt sits across from her, twirling a pen in his hand.

They both stare at the phone.

Linda picks up the phone and dials.

Linda blanches as she hangs up the phone.

Linda picks up the phone again and dials.

As she waits the phone line clicks dead.

She clicks on the hookswitch.

He tries it too. Same result.

INT. CORRIDOR/ELEVATOR

They waste no time getting to the elevator. Linda and

Matt step in.

Linda taps in his floor code.

Linda taps the keypad again.

Matt hits buttons on the keypad.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Frank, Sarah, Carter and Janice man various work stations

in the lab. Linda and Matt enter.

INT. COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT

Frank's fingers fly over the keyboard.

A graphic of the elevator system pops up on the screen.

Frank highlights the security terminal. Frank hits a few

more keys. The screen reduces to a series of numbers.

Frank rewrites a few of the numbers.

The Security System specifications pops up.

Frank types a few more keys, and his eyes widen.

INT. RECOVERY CHAMBER

The team approaches Sebastian's chamber. Carter pulls on

the pair of thermal goggles dangling from his neck up.

THERMAL POV - The chamber is empty.

Linda enters the chamber. She notes that Sebastian's face

and makeup are on the sink vanity. Linda crosses to the

phone and hits the "PAGE BUTTON"

She waits. Then...

A long beep as the intercom clicks off.

INT. CORRIDOR

Linda and Matt, wearing thermal goggles and clutching

tranquilizer pistols, walk down the hallway, scanning

back and forth.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S OFFICE

Janice enters the office.

Suddenly, Janice jerks back.

INT. HABITAT'S CORRIDOR

Sarah scans all the habitats with a thermal scanner.

Listening intently.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S OFFICE

Janice struggles with her unseen assailant, slamming into

walls and knocking into filing cabinets.

INT. LABORATORY

Frank and Carter search the lab with their thermal

scopes.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S OFFICE

Linda and Matt knock.

No response. They push through the door. The room seems

deserted. Signs of a struggle. File cabinets opened,

drawers tossed.

THERMAL POV - Linda surveys the room, spotting a slight

heat signature peeking from the corner.

Linda moves toward it. Whatever it is its hidden from

Matt's POV by the supply cabinet. As Linda gets close she

pulls of f her thermal goggles to see...

JANICE -

Her face blue, eyes bulging. An I.V. cord wrapped around

his neck. Linda jumps back.

Matt rushes over. Sees the lifeless corpse.

Linda lowers the body to the floor.

Linda begins a medical check of the rest of the body.

Matt stoops down and examines Janice's face.

A lamp tumbles from the desk and smashes to the floor.

Both Linda and Matt jump. Linda frantically dons the

thermal visor and scopes the room again. Nothing. Matt

notices the lamp cord beneath Linda's leg. Points it out

to her. She sighs with relief... she pulled the lamp off

the table.

Matt picks up the phone. Clicks the hookswitch. Clicks

the hookswitch again.

She checks the phone, punches some numbers. Nothing.

INT. CORRIDOR

Matt and Linda head toward the lab.

Linda suddenly stops.

Linda takes a few cautious steps. Senses something.

Matt, suddenly concerned, hands her the visor.

THERMAL POV - Linda checks out the corridor. Empty. Linda

takes Matt's hand.

They move quickly up the corridor. See Frank, Sarah and

Carter.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM

Linda scans the room with her thermal scope.

Matt, Frank, Janice and Sarah step in, locking the door

behind them.

They all look at Linda.

Everyone looks around for some leadership. Finally.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

The group moves quickly, passing under an air vent. As

they round the corner the vent slowly swings down and an

air disturbance drops to the ground.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

As they enter...

Linda sits down at a computer terminal, activates it.

A map of the compound appears on the screen.

Matt toggles a switch. Linda stares at a map of the

compound. Blips appear on the display... in the

observation room... in the Habitat Area and in one of the

corridors.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

A shadow edges down the tunnel. It settles for a moment,

disappearing completely, then is back on the move. At the

tunnel's edges, motion detectors light up as the thing

passes by.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

Carter checks his Tranq pistol & Matt rummages through a

locker.

Matt pulls out a pair of walkie-talkies. He tosses one to

Linda.

Her voice echoes from the other unit.

Matt and Carter exit. Linda locks the door behind them.

INT. TUNNEL

Matt and Carter trot toward corridor six.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

Linda huddles over the display, tracking the two.

We see Matt and Carter on one of the working video

screens as they push down the tunnel.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Matt and Carter move cautiously, listening for any sound.

Matt nods to Carter. The pair splits, heading down

separate accessways.

Matt pulls the visor down over his eyes.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

Linda watches the two separate and come around Sebastian

in a pincer move.

Suddenly, the blip that was Sebastian disappears. Linda

grabs the walkie.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Matt makes his way forward.

But Matt becomes more cautious with his footsteps. Slowly

... approaching a corner...

He rounds the corner and sees a heat signature at the far

end of the corridor. He levels his pistol, ready to fire.

Matt pulls off his goggles.

No response. They both don their visors and move forward

slightly. Carter holds up his hand.

Carter points. Matt checks his thermal. A red heat

signature clings to the wall.

No response.

Matt looks through his visor and holds the tranquilizer

gun at the ready. He looks for a clear shot. The heat

signature huddles behind pipes.

The two slowly move closer. Matt finally has a clear

shot. He signals Carter. Carter levels his pistol too.

Matt fires the dart at the heat signature. It bounces off

the wall ... Nothing there.

He crosses to the heat signature.

Suddenly behind him... CARTER JERKS THREE FEET in the

air, kicking wildly. SUSPENDED IN MID-AIR BY HIS NECK. He

gasps for air.

Matt opens fire with the tranquilize, shooting at the

ceiling until he spends his dart rounds.

Carter suffocates. He passes out. With a sudden crack,

he's thrown against the side wall. A large cut opens up

across his head and his body goes limp.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

Linda huddles over the display.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Matt scrambles away. Running. Pipes burst and swing down

from the ceiling. Steam billows forth. Something moves

through the cloud of steam.

Around the corner, Matt shoves more darts into his

tranquilizer.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Linda watches the screen. Two blips, one traveling

quickly.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Matt takes a few steps back.

Matt breaks into a run.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

Linda watches one dot chasing the other, down several

corridors.

INT. TUNNEL

Matt running, checking over his shoulder. Sounds of

footsteps behind him, but up ahead the heavy metal blast

doors begin to close.

Matt rushes the doors as they slide shut. He doesn't make

it in time. The doors close with a resounding clang. Matt

turns and pulls on his thermals.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Linda huddled over the screen. Tense.

Then checks the Thermal goggles. Several heat signature

dot the tunnel.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Linda gets a sense of forboding. She looks around the

room. Sees a heating vent in the corner.

Beat.

She grabs the walkie.

Through the goggles, Matt sees the tunnel turning red.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

Linda grabs a Tranq gun and heads for the door.

INT. CORRIDOR

Matt turns to face the corridor. It's turning red. Matt

sees some movement in the thermal cloud. Opens fire. But

the thermal signature disappears into the heat. Matt

can't distinguish anything through his goggles anymore.

He pulls them off and holds him gun in front of him

sweeping the hallway.

His voice keeps shifting. Matt fires.

Matt sweeps his front leg back and forth, like a blind

man using a cane. But his foot isn't hitting anything. He

sees a FIRE EXTINGUISHER mounted on the wall. He rushes

it, turns it on the hallway and sprays. And SOMETHING

LUNGES through the foam. GRABS HIM, sending him tumbling

down the tunnel. Matt is thrown against the wall. Blood

coming from his brow. He scrambles away, spraying more

foam. Sees a shape in the mist, raises his pistol and

FIRES. The shape leaps away. The DART FLIES. Doesn't hit.

Matt scrambles back into a corner. His pistol is empty.

The Shape parts the low hanging mist, the fine powder

swirling in clouds behind it. Coming toward him.

THE DOOR OPENS. Linda reaches through, grabs Matt. She

pulls him to his feet and through the door.

INT. TUNNEL

Frank and Sarah, holding their Tranq pistols, fly down

the corridor.

They shear off the main corridor into the side corridor.

Carter lies crumpled up ahead. Sarah slides to his side.

Carter's head rests in a pool of blood. She checks his

pulse while Frank takes a protective position.

Frank stands frozen.

Frank snaps to. Grabs an arm. The pair hoist Carter up

and carry him down the hallway.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

Linda pulls a handle and doors slide shut behind them.

Linda pulls him close.

Linda checks the screen -- see Sarah, Frank and Carter

headed toward the Laboratory.

Isolated in the Hallway of Habitats is a single blip.

INT. LABORATORY

Frank and Sarah lift Carter onto a medical table.

Sarah grabs a sheet from the counter top. Folds it and

presses it against the head wound.

She guides Frank's hands to the wound.

Sarah pulls out a saline solution I.V. bag and slap it on

the rack. She fumbles with the needle as she tries to

find a vein.

Sarah heads to the door.

INT. CORRIDOR

Sarah exits the lab. Checks the corridor. Down at the end

of the cramped tunnel is the supply room.

She swallows her fear and heads toward it, all the while

glancing side-to-side and behind her.

INT. SUPPLY ROOM

Spooked, Sarah bursts into the room. She goes to the

supply fridge/freezer, pulls open the door, and sorts

through blood bags.

INT. TUNNEL

Matt and Linda push along the corridor; Matt spraying

with the fire extinguisher in short controlled bursts,

Linda clutching her tranquilizer like a commando.

A noise behind them. Footsteps.

Matt turns to blast with the extinguisher. The white

chemical dust sprays out, outlining a shape in the

tunnel. But it isn't a human shape.

Matt's uniform shreds. Something with fierce sharp claws

fells him. Tearing into his flesh. We see a angry, hungry

face... jabbing for a moment through the lingering fog.

Linda tries to get a clear shot off through the smoke.

Matt trips and goes sprawling. Something yelps. A howl.

Linda shoots. Her dart jabs into something which

collapses to the ground. A moment of calm. As the dusty

chemical foam settles, the outline of a great ape

appears, still twitching.

Linda leans against the wall, still clutching her tranq

gun at the ready. The heat is getting to bar. Bar scrubs

are soaked, her hair's a mess. She wipes the sweat from

her brow.

Matt sprays the whole tunnel, putting down a gentle cloud

mist. Nothing else appears.

INT. SUPPLY ROOM

Sarah finishes collecting blood bags and shuts the door

to the fridge/freezer.

The DOOR SLAMS behind her. She freezes and slowly turns.

She eyes the supply room, looking for a sign of movement.

She listens. Is that breathing she hears? Now she's

starting to panic.

She starts to back away, but she's already in the corner.

She clutches her tranquilizer gun, but there's nothing to

aim at. The vials of blood on the shelf gives her an

idea. She reaches over, grabs a vial and throws it on the

floor. GLASS SHATTERS and BLOOD SMEARS across the

linoleum. Sarah tosses another vial and another. Becoming

more and more hysterical. Splattering more and more

blood. But she runs out of vials. Shaking with fear, she

searches the blood looking for a footprint, or movement.

But there's nothing there. Sarah waits a beat, clutching

the tranquilizer gun. Takes a step. Waits a beat longer.

Finally she relaxes. It was just her imagination. She

heads toward the door when she hears a terrifying whisper

in her ear.

Her hair flies up, and she swings against the wall. She

tries to move, but she's pinned there. Her hands

struggling against the force.

The arm holding the tranquilizer gun begins to move.

Sarah fights, but her arm moves nonetheless

Slowly, deliberately, her own arm moves down the wall and

around, until the tranquilizer gun points right at her

stomach.

Sarah watches in horror as her own body betrays her.

She struggles, shaking back and forth. Writhing. In

anguish and in fear.

The trigger pulls .... Pop!

A dart explodes from the gun and imbeds in Sarah's

stomach. She whimpers as her eyes glass over. Suddenly

she's released. She stumbles backward and falls lifeless

to the floor. A moment of stillness, all we can hear is

the sound of someone breathing.

On Sarah's face... a slight-indentation runs down her

cheek..

Almost sweet... almost tender. And slight indentation

runs across her breast and strokes down her body. The

sense of violation and vulnerability is awful. Sebastian

sighs.

Sarah's head shifts slightly. Her head shifts violently,

accompanied by the celery crunch of her neck snapping.

Sebastian exhales, his breath filled with the

intoxication of power.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Frank applies pressure to the wound, waiting for Sarah to

return. Carter's vital signs are weakening..,.

No response. Frank doesn't know whether to stay or go

after her. He starts toward the door several times but

can't leave Carter. Finally the door opens.

But it's Linda and Matt.

Linda rushes over to check on Carter.

Linda grabs a stethoscope and listens to Carter's heart.

She-slowly pulls Frank's hand away from the wound.

Linda would love to cry about it, but doesn't afford

herself the luxury.

INT. CORRIDOR

The three of them approach the supply room door slowly.

Blood trickles from under the door and bloody footprints

extend down the hallway.

They swing open the door.

The floor is covered in blood and broken glass. But no

body.

INT. CORRIDOR

Sarah, broken, is dragged toward the chair, eerily

jerking down the hallway... seemingly on its own.

INT. CORRIDOR

The three scientists follow the bloody footprints down

the hallway past the empty cages in the tunnel of

habitats.

All clutch their tranquilizer pistols.

The footprints lead past the habitats to Sebastian's

chamber.

They see Sarah's body in the dim light.

The group breaks into a run. Linda pushes into the

chamber and falls at Sarah's side. Matt cradles Sarah's

head. They look for some sign of life as Linda fights

back the tears.

Matt nods. Linda slams the cubicle wall with her fist.

Matt puts his hands on her shoulder to calm her. She

pushes him off.

The three of them whip around.

Silence. The three cautiously move out. They stand back

to back, each one facing out. They move toward the door

of the Chamber.

No response. They all their tranq pistols level waiting

for some sign. Hearing each other breathe. They slowly

move outside the Chamber into the corridor.

A beat.

They identify the general area the voice is coming from:

Back inside the Chamber! They slowly move toward the

Chamber door. With lightning speed they slam the door

shut, locking Sebastian inside the Recovery Chamber.

Linda slams her fist against the wall of the Chamber.

Matt gives Linda a kiss...

Matt and Frank head off down the corridor.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A VIDEO SCREEN shows Linda pacing outside the Chamber

door. The chair moves forward toward a microphone.

Sebastian TOGGLES the intercom switch OFF. We pan over to

one of the working video screens ... Matt and Frank

stride down the hallway. The chair swivels and the

observation room door swings open slightly.

INT. CHAMBER

Linda still holds his tranq gun toward the door. Nothing

moves. Nothing. Linda walks over to the Plexiglas ...

stares in. Can't see anything, anyone. Just the dead

Sarah.

Then she sees it. The little red light on the intercom.

Its on.

Linda bangs on the glass. She looks. No movement, no

nothing. She listens. Shit. She takes off running.

Tracking with Linda as she rushes down the hall.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Linda breaks in the room to see Frank slicked in blood,

his throat cut, and Matt bleeding from multiple stab

wounds with an extension cord around his neck being

pulled tight.

Linda rushes over and slams into Matt. They fall to the

ground. Linda crawls over to Matt, but her head snaps

back and her lips erupt with blood.

Matt's pulled back across the lab by the cord around his

neck. He grabs at the cord trying to breathe. Linda

watches him being pulled away.

She clamors over to him. But Matt rises in the air and is

tossed against the lab table. Linda levels her dart

pistol and fires haphazardly at the air. She hits nothing

but objects jerk and move in a line as Sebastian heads

for cover. Linda manages to grab Matt and pull him to

her.

Linda pulls Matt toward the door.

Linda hits the lights. The lab is now very, very dark.

Linda reacts to the voice as it grows nearer. She

navigates the maze of equipment, heading toward the crack

of light at the front door.

Linda and Matt have reached the door of the lab. She

pushes through it and slams it behind her.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Linda pulls Matt along.

INT. CORRIDOR, LAB DOORS - DAY

The doors explode open.

INT. SUPPLY ROOM - DAY

Linda looks up and down the hall and pulls Matt inside

the supply room. It's still blood soaked from earlier.

Linda closes the door, sliding the deadbolt into place.

Linda lots him drop like a heap onto the floor. She falls

to her knees beside Matt, lying on the ground.

Linda pulls his scrubs open. The wounds are many and

deep.

BAM! Something slams against the door. Bam! Slams against

it again. The old deadbolt is buckling. Linda looks

around the room and sees the storage freezer.

Linda helps Matt up and into the storage freezer.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda grabs a metal bar and slides it between two hooks

on the door and the jam.

BAM! The storage room door blows open. Linda leans down

next to Matt.

He entire shirt is stained with blood. He's having

trouble breathing.

Linda picks up his hand. Grips it tight.

Matt smiles.

She rips his shirt open... and sees his wounds. She grabs

a vial of alcohol and dumps it on her hands and then

probes the wound.

She looks around.

She rises, and looks outside the porthole into the room.

Suddenly it fogs up and she almost sees a face. She

stumbles backward, and the door starts rattling. Linda

scrambles over to hold the metal crowbar in place.

Sebastian pulls and rattles on the freezer door. To no

avail. It's not gonna budge. Finally he gives up. The

door stops shaking. Linda is relieved, briefly.  Still.

Then she hears the click of the door locking.

OUTSIDE THE FREEZER

CLOSE ON THE REGULATOR as the dial turns from forty-five

degrees, down to negative twenty.

INSIDE THE FREEZER

Through the porthole, Linda sees the bloody footprints

heading toward the door. She removes the metal bar and

pushes on the door. It won't move.

Linda looks around the storage room. She grabs a roll of

duct tape and pulls off a length.

She takes paper towel and cleans off Matt's wound. She

tapes it, using duct tape.

A beat later, the compressor begins pumping Arctic air

into the freezer.

Linda returns to the door. Shakes it.

INT. CHAMBER - DAY

We hear WHISTLING as we see a sheet of flesh fill out

into a head as Sebastian slides on his latex head piece.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda continues shaking the door. The lock holds. A tear

rolls down Linda's cheek, but a strange thing happens.

The tear drops freeze. Linda shivers as she pulls the icy

tears from her face.

The inside thermometer has dropped to five degrees.

Linda grabs the metal bar and starts smashing it against

the porthole. The metal bar just bounces off the glass.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S OFFICE

A drawer opens, revealing a set of clothing neatly

folded. Shirt, pants, shoes. They begin to move.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda drops the metal bar and slides down the wall,

defeated.

Matt's head rolls back.

She checks his pulse. Thank god he still has one, but

he's not gonna last long. They're both already starting

to turn a little blue. Linda stares desperately up at the

shelves, trying to find some sort of advantage. Then she

sees something. She looks back at the door lock and then

she rises ... and grabs AN EXTENSION CORD coiled on the

shelf.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Sebastian, dressed in street clothes, stands before the

mirror applying make-up to his latex mask.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda finishes stripping the insulation off the electric

cord.

She grabs a hypodermic needle package, and her cold

fingers fumbles with the package as she tries to pull out

the plastic tube.

She finally gets it out and she starts wrapping the

stripped electric wire around the tube in a tight coil.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Sebastian slides on a wig and checks his appearance in

the mirror. Pretty smooth. Even from relatively close up,

he could pass as normal.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda furiously winds wire into a coil.

INT. CORRIDOR

Sebastian heads down the corridor. Lingering steam twists

in and around the hallway, long wispy tendrils. Sebastian

pauses for a moment, hearing A GROWL. Suddenly the

hallway seems a lot scarier. From beneath his scrubs he

pulls his own tranq gun. He listens ... hearing scraping

and footsteps. Watching the water on the floor twitch.

With machine like precision, he turns and fires. The

tranq dart halts in mid-air and some invisible thing

tumbles over.

Sebastian continues down the hallway.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda holds the plug end of the extension cord. The other

end is wrapped into a tight long coil. Linda looks for an

outlet, but can't find one. She looks at the overhead

lights.

A moment later she's climbing up the shelving. She wrap*

a piece of fabric around her hand, and with a sharp punch

she smashes one of the overhead light bulbs.

INT. LABORATORY

Sebastian enters, fully dressed. At a distance it'd be

hard to tell his secret. He pulls several chemicals off

the shelves. Then he pulls a tray of test tubes over and

begins mixing.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda works on jerry rigging the two ends of the wire to

the lightbulb, socket.

Suddenly the coiled wire springs to life and flies

against the nearest metal surface. She's made an

electromagnet.

INT. LABORATORY

Sebastian loads the filled test tubes into the

centrifuge. Dozens of other vials are already slotted. He

takes one of the left over vials, considers it a moment

and then flings it over to the other side of the lab. The

vial shatters and...

EXPLODES.

A powerful explosion that rocks the room.

INT. STORAGE FREEZER

Linda feels the rumbling as she places the coil up

against the door. The magnet attaches itself. Linda

shakes the coil, trying to get the doorlock to move.

OUTSIDE THE DOOR -

We see the lock twitching. Shaking...

INSIDE THE DOOR -

Linda shivers as she plays with the coil. Her eyes glaze

and she stumbles backward. Her surgical scrubs, once

soaked with sweat, are now frozen stiff. She composes

herself and pushes back toward the door. Her heavy breath

hangs as a low cloud of Mist.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Sebastian looks over the dozens of other test tubes,

calculating their combined power in his mind. Then he

closes the top of the centrifuge. He taps a few commands

into its timer.

INT. SUPPLY ROOM

The door lock twitches again and twists back. The door

swings opens and Linda stumbles out, mashing into a

supply shelf of oxygen canisters. The canisters tumble

every which way as Linda tumbles to the ground.

She scrambles to her feet and goes in after Matt, pulling

his cold body out of the storage locker.

She pulls stacks of paper down from, the shelves into a

trashcan, grabs an industrial lighter and ignites the

paper. She pushes Matt close to the small bonfire. As she

does, the oxygen tanks catch her eye.

INT. CORRIDOR

Sebastian exits the lab, locking the door behind him. He

heads down the darkened tunnel. Something scampers in

front of him. Small, not visible. Sebastian sends it

reeling with a swift violent kick.

INT. CORRIDOR, BY THE ELEVATOR - DAY

Sebastian, dressed and in full latex, comes striding up

the tunnel. He taps a code into the elevator vault doors.

The vault doors open revealing the elevator.

The doors slide open and Sebastian steps inside.

And there's Linda. Slicked with dirt and blood. She holds

a oxygen container with a cut line.

The door starts to shut.

She hits the top of a LIGHTER duct-taped to the hose. A

line of PRESSURIZED FIRE BLOWS into the elevator.

WWHHHOOOOSSHHHH! Sebastian goes up in flame. Linda runs

toward the elevator. Just as the door's about to close,

she slides. Her foot jamming into it.

She lets loose with the flame again. Sebastian, backed

into the corner, has no where to go. He's yelling in

pain. His latex FACE BUBBLES and burns. The surgical

scrubs SINGE BLACK. With no other escape route, he dives

toward the door. Linda looks up to see his flaming body

fly over her, back into the corridor. Linda kills the

tank as Sebastian continues to burn. The elevator lights

flickers and the security panel goes up in a shower of

sparks. The elevator dies. Linda pulls herself to her

feet and turns to see...

Half of Sebastian's head MELTED AWAY, his latex facade a

gruesome smoke-damaged mass. His clothes are half burned

revealing large blistering bubbly welts underneath, like

deformed blackened bubble wrap.

Sebastian crawls to his feet, but Linda hits him with

another shot of flame.

Sebastian pulls at his clothes as he crawls around the

corner.

Linda stalks toward him.

Linda turns the corner to see a heap of smoldering latex

and clothing strewn about the corridor floor. Sebastian,

looking like some ugly creature, pushes down the

corridor. He throbs with his blackened skin blistering

and cracking up and down his body. Linda lets loose

another jet of flame. It's smaller than the first and

doesn't quite hit Sebastian. Linda checks the tanks

pressure gauge. It slowly drops. Linda follows the

blackened horror into the maze of tunnels. But as he

pushes along the corridor, his burns slowly re- absorb

themselves. Sebastian is no longer visible. A quiet

moment in the hallway as Linda realizes how vulnerable

she is. She looks around for him desperately. Nothing.

But something on the ceiling catches her attention. She

blasts it with the last jet of her dying torch. THE

SPRINKLER SYSTEM, hit by fire, comes to life. Water

sprays down on the tunnel. Sebastian is caught in the

downpour, his invisible frame outlined by water. It comes

toward her, the hot skin steaming in the water. He grabs

Linda and slams her against the wall. His watery hand

smashes her across her face. Linda reels. On the floor,

she looks to see Sebastian stalking toward her. She

crawls away, but he grabs her by her hair, pulls her to

her feet and slams her against the wall.

Sebastian smashes her head against a metal post. Her head

cuts open, blood dripping down.

Linda collapses to the floor. Sebastian's foot presses

against her neck, squeezing it. Linda gags for breath.

But through the shoot of water that is Sebastian, we see

something also... a watery smudge.

BAM!

MATT - smashes Sebastian with the metal bar. Sebastian

slams against the corridor wall and sinks down.

Matt staggers. It's taken all his strength to got there.

He drops the crowbar and seeks the wall for support, he

sinks to his knees by Linda.

He gives her his hand and pulls her up into his arms.

Just as the two turn, Sebastian rises with the crowbar.

He swings it with a yell. Matt pushes Linda out of the

way, his arm glancing the blow into a conduit. The

conduit splits open and severs ELECTRICAL wiring. The

VOLTAGE shoots up the crowbar and into Sebastian. As the

current pulses through his body, Sebastian vibrates. His

blood vessels yank back to visibility, followed by his

skeletal structure and major organs. Sebastian is slowly

electrified. Smoke pours off him and he becomes more and

more visible. Finally he collapses. His body throbbing in

and out of visibility. Matt and Linda stumble away.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Just outside the lab... Linda tries to pry open the

sealed doors with the crowbar. But she can't.

Through the doors porthole she sees a collection of

chemicals and the fire raging from the earlier explosion.

Matt peaks inside.

She sees the centrifuge... The timed counter on its face

counts down from a minute. Fifty nine. Fifty eight. Fifty

seven...

INT. TUNNEL

Linda and Matt move as fast as they can. They reach the

burned out elevator. What the hell are they gonna do? We

know the damn thing doesn't work. She swings her crowbar

at the ceiling. The maintenance hatch comes down.

Linda hooks the crowbar onto the hatch lip and pulls

herself up. She reaches back down for Matt.

Linda grabs Matt's hands and pulls for all she's worth.

She struggles, but they both manage to got him through

the hatch.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Three... two... one. The centrifuge springs to life.

The centrifuge spins the two dozen vials slowly at first.

INT. VENT

Linda and Matt are on top of the elevator.

Linda's hands search the wall. Bar fingers run across the

smooth metal surface.

From the little light below she can see a maintenance

ladder that spans the entire height of the vertical tube.

They look up and see it disappear into the darkness.

Matt starts up, rung after rung. Linda climbs right

behind him.

INT. LABORATORY

The centrifuge spins faster and faster. The vials are

starting to rattle.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT

Linda and Matt pull themselves up the ladder as quick as

they can.

He does, through sheer force of will. Blood from his

wound drips down on Linda's face. No telling how much

further they have to go in this darkness. Light leaks in

from the maintenance hatch below.

INT. LABORATORY

The centrifuge's whine has reached a fevered pitch. The

vials shake violently.

Then... one of the vials shatters.

A FLASH OF LIGHT. A HUGE EXPLOSION rips through the

laboratory.

INT. TUNNEL

The EXPLOSION rips through the lab doors. A MASSIVE

FIREBALL rolls down the tunnel swallowing everything in

its path.

One of the phase shifted animals gets caught in the

flames. We see its shape briefly before it disappears In

a wall of fire.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT

The ladder begins to shake. The entire shaft begins to

rumble. Linda pushes Matt up as they scramble toward

safety.

INT. EXHAUST VENT

The FIREBALL blows into the vent. Starts rolling down it

also.

INT. TUNNELS

More explosions.

CHAIN REACTIONS. BOOM! BOOM! BOOM!

THE EXPLOSIONS rolls toward the OPEN ELEVATOR. Slamming

into it... The elevator flies upward.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT

The rumbling worsens. The two desperately cling to the

ladder. They looks down to see...

The elevator...

SURROUNDED BY FLAMES flying up toward them, lifted by the

explosion's SHOCK WAVES.

The carriage accelerates toward them, faster and faster.

Its loose cables whip around the shaft, slapping the

walls around the pair. Its gonna hit them! Linda pulls

herself close to the ladder and closes her eyes. She's

pressed against Matt. The elevator... 50 feet... 40 ...

30 ... W0000000SH! It flames RIGHT BY THEM.

When Linda opens her eyes, the elevator is HUNDREDS OF

FEET ABOVE THEM and a wall of fire is below them, closing

in.

Panicked, Linda pushes Matt up the ladder as she stares

down at the rising fire wall. But the fire dissipates

before it hits them, though a stray tongue of flames

reaches up to lick the soles of her feet.

They hear a terrifying moan and looks up to see the

elevator peaking far above her. It slows to a stop and

BEGINS TO FALL.

FASTER AND FASTER. Coming back toward them in complete

free- fall. It's emergency brakes clamp down, slowing it.

Metal against metal. Sparks flying. One of the brakes

shears. Then another. The elevator unseats from it's

tracks, SLAMMING against the walls as it TUMBLES. Linda

sees that the elevator is out of control, and watches as

it ping-pongs toward them... smashing into the access

ladder, smashing into the wall. The elevator slows, but

continues slamming side-to-side. Linda cringes as the

elevator crashes into the wall above them. But it jams

there, stopping. They pull their heads away from wall and

look up. The elevator just hangs there, suspended.

There's a small crawlspace between the elevator and the

ladder.

They begins to climb up again. Matt shimmies through the

tight hollow, and squeezes out the other side, followed

by Linda. She breathes a sigh of relief and just hangs

there a moment when ... Ah! Something grabs her. A singed

throbbing hand emerges from the darkness, gripping at her

leg.

She kicks at it and sees a dark dirty face - a swirl of

dirt, grime and smoke with hollow eyes - rise up the

ladder.

Sebastian pulls himself up Linda's body. Translucent

dirty hands paving at the fabric of her clothes. Linda

tries to climb with this thing on her. But Sebastian

grabs her around the neck. She begins choking for breath.

Linda fights to keep her grip on the ladder... She looks

down at the ten foot drop to the elevator and then... She

lets go!

She and Sebastian plummet through the smoky haze and slam

against the top of the elevator. Linda seems to hover a

few above the elevator, Sebastian's shadowy outline below

her. Matt painfully lowers himself down the ladder. But

metal groans and the elevator drops another five feet.

Linda struggles to her feet. Sebastian rises. A menacing

dark figure stalking toward her. Linda pushes back from

him. Sebastian grabs her by the hair and pulls bar over

to the ladder. The elevator strains and groans.

Sebastian presses her up against the ladder. Presses into

her from behind. He has her trapped. His dirty hand

reaches out and strokes her hair.

Sebastian pulls her hair back and kisses her neck with

his filthy, dirt-smeared mouth and half-burned away face.

Linda and Sebastian struggle. Matt reaches down to try

and grab her, help her.

Linda looks at her feet. The last elevator emergency

brake grips its cable. She grits her tooth and grabs hold

of the ladder.

Linda stamps on the brake release. The ELEVATOR TUMBLES

... along with Sebastian. It slams into the fiery abyss a

hundred yards below. Linda hangs, one hand holding onto

the ladder, the other holding onto Matt. Matt pulls her

back onto the ladder, using all his remaining strength.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Linda and Matt stumble out into the blazing sunshine.

Emergency crews close from all directions, sirens

roaring. A trail of smoke drifts higher and higher into

the sky.

An ambulance pulls up next to them and the paramedics hop

out, immediately putting a blanket around her and

treating Matt's wounds.

Linda looks over her shoulder at the traces of the ruin

and she sees a shimmer of heat rising from the ground...

almost as if something was there.

