A subway screeches by at full speed revealing a station platform

somewhere in Harlem.

A man runs for his life in the deserted space. He's an African

American male in his forties wearing a security guard uniform.

He turns into an empty corridor, climbs a set of stairs towards

the exit, but- The gates are down and the station is closed.

Desperate and out of breath, he is forced to trace his way back,

searching for an exit or a place to hide. He sees a door to the

public restroom and runs inside.

The place is deserted as well. One of the mirrors is smashed

while the others are covered by graffiti and dirt -

The neon lights are flickering, bringing the place in and out of

the dark.

The man checks each stall one at a time.

His face lights up as he looks inside the last one-

A SMALL WINDOW ABOVE THE TOILET IS JUST BIG ENOUGH FOR HIM TO

CRAWL THROUGH.

He steps onto the toilet seat but the window is shut too tight.

After a brief struggle, he swings it open, only to discover-

A wall of bricks.

Panic returns to his eyes. He slowly opens the stall door,

fearful of what could be waiting outside.

A FAINT SOUND OF SHATTERING GLASS is heard.

He quickly shuts the door, holding his breath. Frozen.

Silence.

His heart racing, he exits the stall in the direction of the

sound. The place is empty.

The room is revealed by flashes of flickering neon lights.

He moves closer to the sinks and the spiderweb cracked mirror.

His image is fragmented and deformed. It resembles a Cubist

portrait.

He talks to his own reflection in the mirror-

He approaches and starts crying like a child. His head resting

against the mirror, he pleads for his life. Then, seeing the

dirt and grime on the mirror, his behaving shifts to another

extreme. He starts cleaning it frantically with his hands. Too

frantically-

A piece of the spiderweb cracked mirror falls on the ground.

Immediately, he bends down to pick it up but-

HIS REFLECTION IN THE MIRROR REMAINS STANDING IN SILENCE,

WATCHING HIM.

Looking up, the man realizes his reflection has become

independent. A separate being...

Terrified, he slowly stands staring at his stationary double.

The pointy and sharp piece of broken mirror in his hand reflects

the neon lights just like a knife blade.

His eyes turn cold with fear when-

HIS DOUBLE IN THE MIRROR STABS ITSELF DEEP IN ITS THROAT!

IN REALITY, THE MAN HAS NOT MOVED AN INCH, YET HIS THROAT RIPS

OPEN, RELEASING A RIVER OF BLOOD.

Void of any facial expression, the man's reflection slices his

jugular from end to end.

In reality, the man chokes on his own blood which splatters on

the mirror- TURNING THE IMAGE TO A DARK DEEP RED.

OPENING CREDITS ON-

All the reflections catch in the glass buildings of Manhattan-

The traffic in the streets, the old turn-of-the-century facades,

the people walking on the sidewalk, the pigeons flying away, the

Brooklyn Bridge and the Manhattan skyline reflecting off the

surface of the Hudson River...

Seen through the mirrored surfaces, everything in the city seems

to move in a distorted way. Ominous.

The softness of the sun's rising light is contrasted with the

eerie, haunting music.

Bip. Bip. Bip...

It's 8 a.m. The blinking digital numbers of the alarm clock

reflect off the wooden floor of the apartment.

The sunlight is diffused through the drawn curtains of the

living room.

Seen in the reflection of the TV-set, a man is sleeping on the

couch. He switches off the alarm and rises to go into the

bathroom.

Like a thick fog, the steam from the shower fills the bathroom.

The shower turns off. A hand reaches out to wipe away the mist

on the mirror above the sink, revealing-

The face of BEN CARSON, 41 years old. His eyes reflect the

hardships of life. A life, that from the lines on his face, we

suspect hasn't been easy. On his chest and shoulder, SEVERAL

BULLET SCARS.

Ben changes his razor blade and starts to shave his 3 day old

stubble.

Ben finishes getting dressed and walks to the half opened

bedroom door.

Inside, ANGELA is asleep in the bed. She is younger than Ben.

ANGELA awakens slowly-

He comes to kiss her on the forehead. She opens a sleepy eye and

smiles.

She strokes his face gently.

Ben slips on his old military parka before leaving.

Ben walks down the hallway. The building is old and clearly not

well maintained, cracks and graffiti cover the walls.

The downtown streets are clogged with the early morning rush

hour traffic.

On the honorary board of the NYPD we can read the names of all

the officers decorated for their courage. In the reflection of

the copper plate we find Ben, sitting on the bench across from

the office of -

We discover a whole different world-

In the sterile environment of the NYC Chief Medical Examiner's

Office, forensic scientists with tape recorders in hand,

describe the corpses.

We are a world away from the Hollywood cliches of neatly laid

out, immaculate cadavers. Here, some of the corpses have reached

a state of advanced decomposition and others are still frozen in

contorted positions, expressing their ultimate agony before

dying. From the homeless man fished out of the river, to the

woman killed by gun shots, each corpse tells his own story...

Amidst the group of doctors 35-year-old AMY, deeply immersed in

an autopsy, is interrupted by her cell phone.

Amy checks the display for the incoming call- BEN. She hesitates

for a moment and doesn't answer the call.

Amy goes back to the postmortem analysis on her tape recorder.

Dozens of pigeons fly away as the above ground subway passes by.

Caught in the pouring rain, Ben has taken shelter under the

scaffolding at a street corner. He plugs his ear with his finger

to block the traffic and city commotion -

Ben hangs up the phone. He lingers under the scaffolding for a

moment, watching the falling rain.

The glass skyscrapers mirror the black clouds in the sky above

as they slowly break up, giving way to the sun.

On 38th Street, just off of Broadway, the Mayflower has

withstood the passage of time and the huge fire that forced it

to shut down-

The damage from the fire is still noticeable on the facade of

the building-

The fire appears to have started on the ground floor and seems

to have spread all the way up to the top. Some of the windows

are shattered, while others are boarded up. What was once an

impressive ornate building, a fine example of 1920's

architecture standing on one of Manhattan's most dynamic

streets, now gives off a feeling of devastation and desolation.

What is left of it is a mere ruin, a sort of neglected ghost

ship, abandoned in the heart of the city.

The last beams of daylight shine through the broken windowpanes.

Inside the department store, everything has remained the same

since the fire, as if time stood still. The display cases, the

departments, the mannequins, and even the clothes are all burnt

or blackened by the fire. A thick coat of soot covers the floor

and rainwater drips down all over the place.

In his dark brown uniform, the daytime security guard, LORENZO

SAPELLI, 60's, seems pleased to guide Ben through what was once

a temple of beauty and vanity.

On the cracked walls, THE HUGE 1920 MIRRORS that have survived

the flames reflect merely the remnants of the past. The

customers are long gone and have been replaced by pigeons flying

in and out of the gaps in the roof.

Ben follows Lorenzo through the burnt display counters. He

listens but his mind has drifted elsewhere. This place makes him

uncomfortable. It's not only the lingering smell of a fire, but

also a sense of death that hangs over it.

The whistling of the wind through the store's old ventilation

system sounds like faraway voices.

Ben and Lorenzo appear at the top of the staircase of the 2nd

floor.

Ben observes the surroundings- Yet another spectacle of

devastation.

Amused and skeptical at the same time, Ben contemplates the

mirrors that surround him-

Unlike the rest of the scenery, THE MIRRORS ARE PERFECTLY CLEAN

AND GLISTENING.

Lorenzo smiles-

Ben and Lorenzo reach the next floor.

Lorenzo checks the time on his watch.

They turn around.

It's almost night. Ben and Lorenzo have finished their visit and

exit the department store.

Outside the building behind the fence blocking its entry, a

construction trailer has been outfitted for the guards.

Cartoons flicker on an old television set. All bundled up in a

coat, and wearing a woolen hat, a young boy is watching TV.

Lorenzo and Ben enter the mobile home-

Lorenzo strokes his grandson on the head and proceeds to the

back of the mobile home, leaving Ben alone with the child. The

boy looks almost hypnotized by the images on TV.

Lorenzo Jr. shifts his attention from the cartoons and stares

Ben in the face-

Ben smiles.

Lorenzo Senior has changed clothes, and returns with a uniform,

which he hands over to Ben-

Lorenzo hands over the keys-

He's about to leave when-

Lorenzo and Lorenzo Jr. exit the trailer. Through the window,

Ben sees them walk out to the street.

Ben inspects the trailer- scattered with knickknacks, the

decoration of the place corresponds well with Lorenzo's

personality - warmhearted and humble.

The clock on the wall shows 7 p.m.... A long night lies ahead.

Ben grabs a flashlight and turns it on. The beam of light is

dazzling-

The flashlight sweeps across the dark entrance hall.

Wearing the security guard's uniform marked with an embroidered

"M", Ben makes his first round of the store.

The pigeons perched on the roof seem to observe him.

Ben proceeds slowly up the stairs.

In the reflection of one of the grand mirrors in the entrance

hall, we see Ben come down the stairs. He stops for a moment,

facing his reflection in the mirror.

He fixes his collar and looks at himself in his new clothes- Not

quite an NYPD uniform...

Suddenly, his eyes freeze. Intrigued, he comes closer to the

mirror and leans forward-

A HANDPRINT, BARELY VISIBLE, ON THE ICE COLD SURFACE.

He touches it with the tip of his fingers and tries to rub it

off, unsuccessfully. He picks up a rag from the ground, spits on

the mirror, and rubs the mark fervently. The print remains. This

confirms his hunch-

THE HANDPRINT IS INSIDE THE MIRROR...

By angling the flashlight, another handprint is revealed.

Another. And yet another-

THE ENTIRE MIRROR IS COVERED WITH HANDPRINTS, JUST AS IF A CROWD

OF PEOPLE ON THE OTHER SIDE HAD PRESSED ITSELF AGAINST THE GLASS

TO GET OUT...

As he looks back up in the mirror he sees- THE ACCESS DOOR TO

THE BASEMENT OPENING...

Ben turns around. His gaze freezes- THE ACCESS DOOR TO THE

BASEMENT IS CLOSED!

YET, IN THE MIRROR, IT CONTINUES TO SLOWLY SCREECH OPEN!

Ben swings his head back and forth, between the shut door in

reality and the opened door in the mirror. What is happening? Is

he dreaming or hallucinating?

Ben walks backwards towards the basement door, keeping his eyes

fixed on the mirror. As he goes to reach for the handle, he sees

his reflection reaching for the handle of an invisible door!

Ben opens it-

THE SYNCHRONICITY BETWEEN THE REAL WORLD AND THE ONE REFLECTED

IN THE MIRROR HAS BEEN RESTORED. Ben tries to reenact the

phenomenon. He opens and closes the door over and over, while

observing his reflection, but the mirror is no longer deceitful.

The staircase leading to the basement vanishes into the dark.

Ben hesitates.

The light flickers back for a moment, revealing before him-        the

narrow subterranean corridors of the department store.

Along a wall, Ben finds a fuse box and pushes some of the

switches. Further down in the corridor, a couple of fluorescent

lights flicker to life- two tiny sources deep inside the

darkness.

AS BEN DISCOVERS HIS SURROUNDINGS, THE CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY,

UP ALONG THE STAIRS, THROUGH THE OPEN DOOR, IT ACCELERATES AND

STOPS IN FRONT OF THE MIRROR-

IN THE REFLECTION, WE SEE THE BASEMENT DOOR SHUT...

It's been snowing all day and a white coat of powder outlines

the trees and houses.

On the front lawn of their house, 5 year old MICHAEL and 7 year

old DAISY are building a snowman.

Slightly annoyed, the little boy places the eyes on the snowman.

Daisy's face lights up with a big smile when she catches sight

of her father's car approaching-

Michael turns around and sees Ben exiting his 1986 Oldsmobile,

with a big wrapped package in his arms.

The children abandon their snowman and rush towards their

father. Ben takes Michael into his arms-

Michael nods.

They enter the house.

In the kitchen, ROSA, the nanny, is rinsing the dishes from the

afternoon snack-

Ben takes off his coat and joins the kids in the living room. He

hands over the present to his son.

Daisy is sitting in the armchair, holding her cat, TIGER, in her

arms.

Michael tears away the wrapping paper and discovers a remote

control car. The little boy is on cloud nine.

Through the front window, we see a Volvo station wagon park in

front of the house. Amy gets out of the car, loaded with

shopping bags. She enters the house and hands the groceries over

to Rosa.

The expression on Amy's face shifts. Noticeably irritated, she

goes up to the second floor.

Michael's remote control car drives at full speed down the

hallway. Ben shows his children how to operate the remote

control while the bathtub fills up. He seems as excited as the

kids by the new toy.

Ben turns around to find Amy watching them.

Ben puts down the remote control-

Ben follows Amy into the bedroom. She closes the door behind

them.

Amy is not equally pleased to see him- She's beside herself with

anger-

Ben moves closer to his ex-wife-

She smiles- How many other chances did she already give him?

Behind the firmness and intransigence she conveys, we sense Amy

is torn. She still loves him as well.

Out of nowhere, Ben hits the wall with his bare fist-

In the bathtub, Daisy and Michael cannot avoid overhearing their

parents arguing. In denial, Michael blocks his ears with his

hands and lies back under the water...

Amy seems distrustful of Ben, scared of how close he is to the

edge. We can see the anger in his eyes...

He catches a glimpse of his reflection in the mirror- and of the

desperate violence in his eyes... Ben steps back.

Ben exits the room. Amy is left alone-

Through the window, she watches Ben exit the house and get into

his car.

When she turns away, she discovers Michael and Daisy standing

outside the bathtub dripping wet in their towels. She smiles,

and quickly comes to dry them.

She smiles gently.

The beams from the flashlight are reflected in the few inches of

water flooding the basement corridor. Since yesterday, the water

level has continued to rise.

The outline of Ben and Lorenzo's silhouettes appear in the

staircase leading to the ground floor-

On the gas stove, a kettle is whistling.

Ben rummages through the cupboards and the drawers. He finds

some instant coffee next to the bottle of Jack Daniels. He

briefly hesitates between the coffee and the whisky...

He grabs a cup and pours the boiling water into the instant

coffee.

In the reflection of the clock, we see Ben watching TV. It is

past midnight. Ben gets up and grabs his flashlight- It's time

for his rounds.

Through the shattered panes of the central dome, we see Ben

walking through the store.

Since the mysterious occurrences of the night before, his

attitude has changed. He avoids, as much as possible, looking

into the mirrors. He is on guard, fearing another supernatural

manifestation.

The shadows, the mannequins, and the shapes in the mirrors are

all disturbing and unsettling.

Even what remains of the sculptures on the top of the marble

columns seems alive in the dark.

As he crosses the entrance hall, a glint of light catches his

attention. Despite himself, he stops and gazes into the mirror-

AT THE FAR END OF THE STORE, ONE OF THE DEPARTMENTS IS IN FULL

SWING AND BATHED IN DAYLIGHT! EVERYTHING IS SPOTLESS, AS IF THE

FIRE HAD NEVER TAKEN PLACE. CUSTOMERS COME AND GO AS IF NOTHING

HAPPENED.

How is this possible? Ben turns around to see the same spot in

the real world- ONLY IT'S IN RUINS...

Ben glances back at the reflection in the mirror-

The vision of the past prevails. Unable to ignore it, Ben

decides to check it out for himself...

Ben wanders off towards the far end of the store, a landscape of

dust and desolation. HIS REFLECTION IN THE MIRROR, ON THE OTHER

HAND, HEADS IN THE DIRECTION OF THE "FLASHBACK"-

We follow him in the mirror-

Ben has left the night behind and enters the "daytime"

department. Everything is in perfect order and unspoiled.

Ben continues his journey into the past.

The customers jostle one another while shopping during a big

sale. Children run wild in the aisles. Women fight over articles

of clothing.

Ben stops dead in his tracks when he notices, around his shoes,

a transparent liquid spilling out on the floor-

He bends down and dips his fingertips into the liquid- GASOLINE.

Gallons of flowing gasoline gradually spreading over the floor

of the department store.

Ben turns around and sees, under the shelving, A HAND LIGHTING A

ZIPPO-

The lighter falls to the floor in slow motion.

The liquid bursts into flame instantly. THE CHEERFUL VISION OF A

DAY IN THE DEPARTMENT STORE QUICKLY TURNS INTO A NIGHTMARE-

EVERYTHING IS ENGULFED IN FLAMES. THE CLOTHES, THE MANNEQUINS

AND LAST BUT NOT LEAST, THE CROWD! THE AGONIZING SHRIEKS OF PAIN

AND PANIC ARE DEAFENING.

Frightened, Ben steps back-

The flames spread quickly to the escalators where the crowd has

rushed to escape death-

HORRIFIC VISIONS OF PEOPLE BURNING ALIVE... INCINERATED FLESH.

FACES DISTORTED BY THE PAIN, SKIN MELTING TO THE BONE.

In the midst of the flames through the heat waves, Ben spots the

face of the firestarter- IS IT HIS OWN?

Ben has no time to react. In a split second, his uniform catches

fire.

Panicked, he attempts to put out the fire with his hands-

IN THE DARK NIGHT SURROUNDED BY THE CHARRED RUINS, BEN QUIVERS

DELIRIOUSLY AS HE TRIES TO SMOTHER THE INVISIBLE FLAMES.

He comes back to reality-

Ben catches his breath, trying to come to his senses. What's

happening to him? What he just experienced certainly felt real.

During his panic, the flashlight rolled under one of the

counters.

Ben bends down to pick it up. The beam illuminates the ground

and throws light on an object a bit further away- A LEATHER

WALLET.

Sitting at the bar, Ben is nervous, tense... He removes the

steeped tea bag from his cup.

Ben stares at himself in the mirror, behind the bottle display

shelves. It is not his mirror image that he is observing. His

gaze seems to pierce through his own reflection, to dive beyond,

into the very depths of his soul.

Angela interrupts, across from him, behind the bar. She works

here.

Angela smiles, not sure if he is serious-

Ben observes the palm of his hand.

Angela smiles at him and continues to polish the drinking

glasses.

In the darkness, a rat glides peacefully on the water surface.

In the basement, the water level continues to rise.

With a flashlight in hand, and his feet submerged in the water,

Ben moves deeper into the tunnel.

He is searching for the source of the leak. The beam of light

sweeps across the walls and the piping.

Ben crosses an intersection. In the corner, on the tiled wall,

he barely discerns an old inscription ingrained with decades of

dust and dirt. He sinks his hand into the water and wipes it

off, revealing an arrow pointing to, ST JOHN'S DEPARTMENT OF

PSYCHIATRY.

He continues his exploration of the subterranean passageways.

Suddenly, he notices a darker area on the wall. He comes closer

and discovers a brownish damp-spot, covered with mold. The

humidity has pearled into droplets.

He has found the source of the leak.

His hand brushes the wall, causing it to crumble instantly. Ben

digs into the plaster as if it were butter, bringing a cracked

water pipe to light. The leakage has damaged the wall in which

the tubing was embedded.

Ben hears the echoing sound of streaming water, as if there were

another room on the other side of the wall.

He pushes against the saturated wall, and pierces through it

with his arm. He removes his arm. For a moment, he observes the

gaping black hole that he has just left behind.

Ben peeks through the hole with his flashlight, but he cannot

make out what is on the other side.

He makes the hole bigger, until the passage is large enough for

him to crawl through-

ON THE OTHER SIDE, HE DISCOVERS A LARGE BRICK ROOM AND IN THE

MIDDLE OF IT ANOTHER ROOM- AN OCTAGONAL ONE WHOSE EACH AND EVERY

WALL, INCLUDING THE CEILING, IS MADE OF GIGANTIC TWO WAYS

MIRRORS.

One of the mirrors is opened, ajar- It's a door.

He enters.

His image is reflected in all directions and from infinite

angles. Ben moves towards the center of the room-

ALTHOUGH THE ROOM SEEMED EMPTY BEFORE, SOMEBODY IS NOW STANDING

IN THE CORNER.

It's a well-built man. He too is wearing the blue security

guard's uniform.

From where he stands, Ben can only see the back of the man's

head. As he moves in closer, he can make out the name

embroidered on the man's shoulder-

IT'S GARY LEWIS, THE FORMER NIGHT WATCHMAN!

The silhouette remains still.

Ben comes a bit closer.

His gaze freezes when he realizes that Gary is not standing in

front of the mirror with his face pressed against it, but-

HE IS BEHIND THE MIRROR, INSIDE!

Ben steps back, terrified.

He doesn't know how to interpret this new phenomenon.

Ben gathers his courage and returns in front of the mirror-

Knock, knock, knock...

He hits the mirror with his fist, as if it were merely a glass

window behind which Gary Lewis was standing, on the other side-

No reaction. Ben strikes the mirror harder.

Knock, knock, knock...

The former night watchman turns around slowly towards Ben,

revealing his face little by little...

Knock, knock, knock...

In his bed, Ben wakes up with a jolt- THE ENCOUNTER WITH GARY

WAS A DREAM.

Knock, knock, knock...

Somebody is knocking at his door. Ben gets up from the couch-

Ben opens the door to a UPS deliveryman holding out a package-

Ben signs for it and takes the package.

Ben shuts the door and examines the UPS box. He's not used to

getting many deliveries. He flips it over to see who it is from-

THE SENDER IS GARY LEWIS...

Ben grabs a kitchen knife to open the parcel. He tears away the

cardboard and empties out the contents onto the living room

table-

A DOZEN NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS LAND, ALL MIXED UP, ON THE TABLE.

More or less recent, all the articles relate to the department

store and the fire that burned it down... Gary has meticulously

cut them out and sent them to Ben. But why?

Ben's car parks in front of the fence that encloses the entrance

to Mayflower.

He runs into Lorenzo who exits the trailer, ready to go home

from work-

Lorenzo hands him over the keys.

Ben remains standing on the landing of the trailer for a moment,

his gaze fixed at the department store-

THE WALLET, THE DREAM, AND NOW, ON TOP OF EVERYTHING, THE NEWS

OF GARY'S DEATH... ALL THESE STRANGE COINCIDENCES AROUND HIS

PREDECESSOR HAVE AWOKEN HIS CURIOSITY AND DOUBT. BEN WANTS TO

KNOW...

WIDE SHOT OF MAYFLOWER FIRST FLOOR-

IN FAST MOTION- FROM THE FINAL HOUR OF DAY TO THE FALL OF NIGHT.

IN THE REFLECTION OF THE MIRRORS, LIGHT GIVES WAY TO THE

DARKNESS...

The beam from the flashlight appears in the distance-

Determined, Ben crosses the entrance hall in the direction of

the basement door.

He goes down-

Ben appears at the bottom of the stairs with his flashlight, and

follows the subterranean passageway.

Suddenly he is struck by a frightening feeling of deja-vu, HE IS

IN THE VERY ACT OF RELIVING HIS NIGHTMARE IN DETAIL, STEP BY

STEP-

In the darkness, the rat glides peacefully on the water surface.

He crosses an intersection and, once again-

He recognizes the half-visible Psychiatric Department sign on

the tiled wall.

The beam from his flashlight sweeps across the walls and the

piping, bringing to light, in the distance-

THE BROWNISH DAMP-SPOT.

The moisture has pearled into droplets. Slowly, his hand comes

closer. The wall crumbles at the slightest touch...

Pushed by curiosity, Ben begins to dig a hole in the plaster,

just as he had done in his nightmare...

He hears the echoing sound of streaming water, coming from the

other side of the wall. It confirms the existence of a hidden

room.

Ben begins to dig frenetically in the saturated wall, creating a

large enough opening to access the other side-

He inspects the interior with his flashlight, revealing-

THE BRICK ROOM AND IN THE MIDDLE THE OCTAGONAL ROOM, SURROUNDED

BY THE MIRRORING WALLS.

He enters. His image is reflected in all directions and

multiplied into infinity. His dream was foreboding. Everything

is perfectly identical to the nightmare, with the exception of

Gary Lewis-

The former watchman is not there but...

ALL OF A SUDDEN, BEHIND HIM, ONE OF BEN'S DUPLICATES IN THE

INFINITE REFLECTION TURNS AROUND TO OBSERVE HIM WITH AN ICE COLD

GLARE...

Sensing something wrong, Ben turns around.

In the silence he faces his infinite reflections, all of them

identical- OR ALMOST...

Taking a closer look Ben notices one of the duplicates' faces

bearing an expression slightly different from the others'. A

SUBTLE GRIN.

The young doctor stops in front of the number 58B. He opens the

door to the refrigerated compartment bay and pulls out the tray

carrying the corpse, wrapped in a white sheet-

He lifts the sheet, revealing Gary Lewis' upper body-

Gary's eyes are rolled upwards and his throat is wide open. His

skin has become translucent, almost purple. His contorted corpse

is frozen in a deadly expression of profound suffering... His

flesh has started to decompose and putrefy.

Ben stares at the body, in search of a hint, a clue, any useful

information...

Amy becomes impatient.

The doctor checks the report.

Ben looks up.

The doctor, has a smirk on his face-

Suddenly, reflected in the stainless-steel door of the

compartment bay, Ben sees-

GARY'S FACE TURN SLOWLY TOWARDS HIM. GARY STARES DIRECTLY AT

HIM. WITH A VOICE FROM BEYOND, HE DELIVERS A MESSAGE TO BEN-

Ben jumps out of his skin and backs away, terrified. Neither Amy

nor the doctor saw anything, of course. They gaze at him with a

puzzled look-

Ben looks at the corpse and its reflection again- Gary is frozen

in the same contorted position, as if nothing ever happened.

Ben raises his voice.

The doctor senses that the conversation is taking on a more

personal turn.

Amy is left alone with Ben.

On the shelves, photographs of Michael and Daisy stand next to

the medical records and legal-medicine textbooks.

Sitting behind Amy's desk, Ben is studying Gary Lewis' file. He

flips back and forth through the different documents,

photographs, and police reports.

Amy observes him, perplexed. We sense that she is concerned

about Ben's strange behavior and over sensitivity.

He shows her a snapshot taken by the police. We see Gary soaked

in his own blood, the throat slit open. The picture is real,

crude. He lies outstretched, facing a mirror shattered into

several pointy pieces, like a spider web. In his hand, Gary

still holds the piece of glass that he used to cut himself.

Ben points to the reflection in the mirror-

Ben realizes that he will not succeed in convincing her. Not

today.

He's on his way out, when she holds him back-

The steam has fogged up the mirror of the medicine cabinet.

Ben grabs a towel and steps out of the shower.

He watches his blurry reflection. With his finger, on the

surface of the fogged mirror, he writes-

ESSEKER

He contemplates the dripping letters for a long moment, trying

to interpret their meaning.

In the end, he wipes off the mirror with his hand, erasing the

word.

Angela is standing behind him in the door opening-

While she's talking, we see the scene from another point of view-

from inside the mirror- As if SOMEONE ELSE WAS LISTENING TO

THEM.

Angela leaves the bathroom. Ben brushes his teeth. He leans over

to rinse his mouth, and when he straightens up-

IT IS NOT HIM IN THE REFLECTION OF THE MIRROR, BUT GARY LEWIS

WHO SLASHES HIS THROAT FROM END TO END WITH A SHARP PIECE OF

MIRROR-

Ben steps back and loses his balance, knocking down a shelf.

Angela rushes into the bathroom-

He refuses her help.

Ben gets to his feet and looks into the mirror. His reflection

is back. Everything looks normal but-

WHEN HE TURNS TO EXIT THE BATHROOM, HIS REFLECTION STAYS STILL,

WATCHING HIM...

The sun sets behind the Harlem skyline.

Ben's Oldsmobile pulls over in the street- He has decided to

pass by Gary Lewis' old house before his nightshift.

He presses the doorbell next to Gary Lewis' name. An old lady

answers-

Silence.

The entrance door of the building opens.

MRS. LEWIS is at least 80 years old, and almost blind behind her

thick glasses. She lives alone in the small apartment that she

used to share with her grandson.

We sense that she is distraught by Gary's death.

She reaches for a picture frame on the chest.

The old lady dwells on it for a moment-

She sets down the picture frame.

Ben follows Mrs. Lewis to her grandson's room-

It looks nothing like the room of a fifty-year-old man, but

rather like that of an old teenager. From what we can see, Gary

grew up in here, and each object recalls a stage in his life.

Everything is clean and in its proper place, it is perfectly

tidy.

Mrs. Lewis smiles at him. She too, likes to gather her thoughts

in Gary's room.

Ben scrutinizes the room in search of a clue, a hint that might

help him on the Esseker lead. He opens the drawers and looks

through the papers-

Nothing is of any help to him. The only place left that he

hasn't searched is the walk-in closet, whose half-open doors

seem to invite him to enter...

What Ben discovers inside is beyond anything he could ever have

imagined- The closet has been emptied out completely, and

MIRRORS COVER EACH AND EVERY WALL, FROM THE FLOOR TO THE

CEILING! - It's a miniature replica of the hidden room that Ben

discovered back in the basement of the department store...

Mrs. Lewis steps up behind him-

Amy leaves the room.

In his bed, Michael cannot stop himself from staring at the

dimly lit mirror.

Amy goes back to her room. The local news play on the TV. She

gets into bed and turns off the light. She reaches for the

remote and clicks the TV off, turning over-

THE NAKED BURNED WOMAN FROM THE STORE STANDS STILL IN THE

REFLECTION OF THE TV SET.

The entity watches Amy while she is sleeping.

Once again, the POV from behind the mirror. OMINOUS, SLIGHTLY

DETACHED AND MUTED.

Ben secures the padlock of the department store entrance.

He walks towards the trailer, while keeping a fixed eye on the

facade of the building. The scene he just witnessed in the

dressing rooms has shaken him up.

He goes inside. Through one of the windows we see him pick up

the phone and dial a number-

Angela is in the bathroom when the phone starts ringing. She

turns on the tap of the cast-iron bathtub and goes to answer.

On the phone, Ben struggles to put his feelings into words-

She hangs up the receiver and stays in the dark for a moment,

concerned.

The sound of the pouring bath brings her back to reality.

We follow her into the bathroom. She dips her fingers into the

water to check the temperature. The bathtub is almost full.

Angela undresses in front of the medicine cabinet mirror. When

she turns around to climb into the hot bath, HER REFLECTION

REMAINS MOTIONLESS IN THE MIRROR, STARING BLANKLY AT EACH OF HER

MOVEMENTS.

Unaware, Angela soaks into her hot bath.

The water continues to pour from the tap.

Angela shuts her eyes- It's been a long day.

IN THE MIRROR, ANGELA'S REFLECTION FIXES HER WITH A COLD GLARE-

Without a word, Angela's reflection brings its hands to its face

and digs its fingers into its mouth. In a sudden jerk, it pulls

open its jaw-

AS IF SHE WERE ELECTROCUTED, ANGELA'S BODY CONTORTS VIOLENTLY

FORWARD. HER MOUTH IS DEFORMED, AS IF AN INVISIBLE FORCE WERE

WRENCHING IT WIDE OPEN.

IN THE MIRROR, HER EVIL DOUBLE CONTINUES TO PULL OPEN ITS MOUTH,

SUDDENLY RIPPING ITS JAW OFF WITH THE SOUND OF CRACKING BONES

AND CARTILAGE-

AT THE SAME INSTANT, IN THE BATHTUB, ANGELA HAS NO TIME TO REACT

BEFORE SHE UNDERGOES THE SAME AGONIZING TORTURE!

The mirror cracks by itself.

The bathtub overflows with red water spilling out on the white

tiled bathroom floor.

The camera flashes illuminate the crime scene.

Angela's body lies afloat in the bathtub. The apartment is

entirely flooded.

Two men in police uniforms close off a security zone, to keep

the intrusive neighbors away.

A detective is interrogating an old Puerto Rican couple- the

downstairs neighbors. They were the ones who alerted the police,

after having noticed the water leakage. The old woman explains

how "it was raining blood into her living room"...

Amongst the police officers and the legal medical squad, we find

Larry. He is in charge of the case.

Leaning over the bathtub, Larry examines the visible parts of

the corpse. Angela's face is concealed by her own long black

hair, floating in the murky water.

Larry slips on an examination glove, pulls up his sleeve and

sinks his arm into the blood-red bath. He feels around for the

chain of the plug in order to drain the bathtub.

The water level begins to recede, gradually revealing Angela's

naked corpse.

With the tip of his fingers, Larry lifts away the few strands of

hair covering Angela's face-

Taken by surprise, he steps back from the horrifying sight of

this JAW-LESS FACE.

Larry removes his glove, wipes off his bloodied arm and starts

to leave the bathroom when something else catches his attention-

He comes closer to the spiderweb cracked medicine cabinet

mirror. A TINY DROP OF BLOOD is dripping from one of the cracks.

Strange.

A DARK SILHOUETTE PASSES BEHIND HIM IN THE REFLECTION. He turns

immediately- The bloodied bathroom is still and silent. Angela's

destroyed body lies in the empty bathtub.

A police inspector in the next room, calls out to him-

Larry exits the bathroom. The police inspector in the living

room holds a picture frame in his hands. He turns towards Larry-

Still wearing his uniform, Ben is sitting alone in one of the

interrogation rooms of the police station. His haggard face

expresses great grief. His sister's death has left him

distraught.

He fiddles with an empty plastic cup in his hands.

The classic two-way mirror facing him, throws back his

reflection.

Ben knows that he is being watched.

Behind the two-way mirror, Amy observes him. Larry is standing

next to her.

Amy comes closer to the two-way mirror. She looks at her ex-

husband on the other side. He seems overcome with grief and

confusion. She can see the distress in his eyes.

Ben has been released.

Under the pouring rain, on the front steps of the police

station, Amy tries to reason with him-

Ben is not listening. His mind is elsewhere.

A DULL METALLIC THUD. It gets louder and louder, closer and

closer as we advance towards the opening to the mirror room-

Inside, we find Ben, out of his mind, throwing a chair against

the mirrors with all his strength, in an attempt to demolish

them-

He's exhausted and he's forced to stop.

Not a single shard of glass, not even a scratch, the mirrors

seem completely indestructible...

Ben is not through with them. He drops the chair to the ground

and pulls out the gun from his belt.

Without a moment's hesitation he opens fire-

THE MIRRORS SHATTER VIOLENTLY, CRACKING WITH THE POWERFUL IMPACT

OF THE BULLETS. In the spiderweb-cracked mirror, his image is

deformed.

Having found a weak spot, Ben savors his sweet victory when,

suddenly, something inconceivable unfolds before his very eyes-

THE BULLET IMPACTS DISSOLVE AS IF BY MAGIC AND THE MIRRORS ARE

RECONSTITUTED!

Ben's shock and disbelief give way to rage. He fires, in a fury,

emptying the entire clip this time-

Again, the bullet holes vanish, leaving Ben alone, face to face

with his own reflection. He breaks down nervously-

Silence.

Suddenly, one after the other, letters, start appearing in one

of the mirrors, as if an invisible finger were tracing them in

the dust-

REKESSE

Ben turns around, and in the reflection of the opposite mirror

he recognizes the inverted word- the same word he found on the

note in Gary's wallet, the word Ben himself had traced in his

bathroom mirror-

ESSEKER

Back in the Queens apartment, Ben still hasn't gotten any sleep.

On the wall, he is assembling all the newspaper clippings,

articles and photographs that Gary sent him.

Each and every mirror in Angela's apartment has been covered

with sheets, blankets, old rags- anything he could find to

neutralize the reflective surfaces.

With the phone cradled between his ear and shoulder he is in the

middle of a heated conversation-

Ben hangs up the phone and remains in front of the wall covered

with clippings for a moment. Now he can have a clear overview of

Gary's investigative research.

All the articles date back approximately to the same period and

are all related to the fire that ravaged Mayflower five years

ago.

But not a hint of Esseker.

Ben studies the newspaper clippings, trying to piece the story

together-

" Deadly Fire at Mayflower- 29 dead and 78 wounded "

"   Brutal Massacre- Mother and her three daughters slaughtered..."

" ...the children, drowned, in the bathtub... "

" ...the throat slit open... "

" Mayflower's security guard taken in for questioning... "

" The night watchman confesses to setting the fire but firmly

denies the accusation of murdering his family... "

" Terrence Berry confesses but claims the mirrors are guilty-

The security guard at Mayflower finally confesses. He started

the fire in the department store with the intention of

destroying the mirrors, responsible, according to him, for the

death of his wife and three daughters. "

Ben observes Terrence Berry's face in one of the archive

photographs. He looks like a perfectly normal guy, rather kind,

surely he was a good father... Ben can't help but empathize with

him.

As he looks up, Ben catches a glimpse of his reflection in the

window-

What if he too lost his mind and went on to slaughter his

family? Or what if the mirrors would do it?

The phone rings-

Ben holds on the line, for a moment.

Ben sits down on the bed and scribbles down the address on a

piece of paper.

He hangs up the phone. Under the blanket, next to him, he spots

the T-shirt that his sister was wearing the other night.

The pain is too strong. He cannot hold back his tears anymore

and starts crying.

The next morning -

Heavy-eyed and sleepy, Michael is hypnotized in front of the

weather forecast on TV.

The hot chocolate set in front of him is getting cold. His

sister Daisy pours herself some more orange juice. Amy, shaking

a box of cereal, interrupts the little boy in his dream state-

The little boy does not answer.

She pours the cereal in his hot chocolate.

Michael begins to eat his breakfast, his gaze still fixed on the

weatherman's forecast on TV. As Amy fills the cat's bowl with

pellets, Tiger rushes over to join the rest of the family.

Michael doesn't answer. Daisy shakes her head.

The little boy stays quiet.

Amy suddenly becomes more concerned and sits down next to

Michael-

Michael gives a reluctant nod. Amy is reassured. He finishes his

mug of cereal and goes to place it in the sink. Amy gives Daisy

a questioning look-

Michael remains silent and Daisy answers for him-

Daisy bursts out laughing... Michael glares back at her, furious.

Puzzled, Amy reflects briefly on Daisy's remark-

Michael remains silent.

Amy questions him with her eyes. Michael lowers his.

The two kids dash up the stairs. Amy is left alone to clean up

breakfast.

She casts a glance at the front hall mirror. Daisy's comment

lingers in her thoughts.

Dressed in their coats, Michael and Daisy come running down the

stairs and rush out of the house... Amy exits the house. The car

drives away.

Daisy's cat leaps onto the kitchen table and directs his gaze to

the mirror-

FOR NO APPARENT REASON, THE CAT SUDDENLY STIFFENS INTO A

POSITION OF DEFENSE. HE BRISTLES HIS COAT AND HISSES AND SPITS

TOWARDS HIS REFLECTION IN THE MIRROR.

Wide shot- The high security psychiatric hospital stands under a

leaden sky -

DR. MORRIS, the doctor who had once been in charge of Terrence

Berry, escorts Ben down the corridor-

The two men pass a number of guards and security check-points as

they head down towards the hospital's film and video archive-

Dr. Morris swipes his magnetic card through the electronic

device, unlocking the door to the archives.

He enters the archives, followed by Ben-

Dr. Morris' finger glides across several DV-tapes dated 2001 in

search of one particular tape-

He pushes the tape into the deck. A grainy picture appears on

the screen-

We discover TERRENCE BERRY, sitting behind a desk. His hands are

cuffed. Facing him, DR. MORRIS is leading the cross-examination.

Terrence is tense and uncomfortable. He keeps his face down,

never looking into the camera.

DESPITE HAVING SURVIVED THE FIRE, TERRENCE'S FACE IS NONETHELESS

DISFIGURED BY THIRD DEGREE BURNS. HE NO LONGER HAS FACIAL

FEATURES, AND HE STRUGGLES WITH HIS SPEECH.

Terrence remains silent. Dr. Morris repeats his question-

Terrence breaks out in tears.

With his eyes fixed on the video monitor, deep inside, Ben

already knows the answer that Terrence is about to give...

Ben realizes that he's in the exact same situation-

He stands to leave. The monitor keeps playing the old footage-

Terrence doesn't speak.

Suddenly, Terrence's behavior shifts to another extreme. He

stands up, and flying into a rage, he becomes brutal and

hysterical-

Terrence becomes uncontrollable. He wrecks the folders lying on

the desk and throws himself, head first, against a wall mirror

that shatters to pieces.

Ben's car comes to a screeching halt in front of his old house.

Ben rushes inside.

He is beside himself. After seeing the video footage on

Terrence, he has been struck with fear and panic for his family-

Before the perplexed gaze of Rosa and his children, Ben

agitatedly comes and goes in the hallway of the second floor. He

is removing the mirrors from each and every room.

He tears away the bathroom mirror, unhooks the one in the far

end of the hallway, and removes some from Amy's room...

Rosa fears more and more for the children and takes them under

her protective arms. Amy is not back yet.

The only mirror left that Ben cannot remove, is the one in the

children's room.

He rushes down to the basement and comes back with a bucket of

old paint. He immediately begins to paint the wall mirror in

order to neutralize its reflection.

At the same time, Amy's car pulls up in front of the house.

As soon as she sees the front door open, and the mirrors laid

out on the landing of the front steps, Amy rushes into the

house, panic-stricken.

She races up the stairs to the second floor, barging into the

children's room where Ben is painting the mirror. She signals

Rosa to take the kids out.

Focused and determined, Ben does not answer her question.

Ben continues to paint the mirror.

Ben stops-

Ben can see that she is very upset about the situation. He sets

down the paint bucket on the floor-

He leads her back down, through the first floor, and out on the

front steps of the house-

Ben pulls his Magnum out of his belt and points the gun at one

of the mirrors he has dragged outside.

Amy steps back, terrified-

Without a moment's hesitation, Ben opens fire. The mirror

shatters to pieces-

Ben smiles, all excited-

Through the front window, Daisy and Michael witness the scene-

Ben keeps a piercing gaze as the bullet impacts the mirror,

waiting for the magic to do its trick and for the cracks to

dissolve again-

BUT NOTHING HAPPENS. THE CRACKS REMAIN, IN A SPIDER WEB PATTERN.

Behind the front door, Ben notices Michael, watching him, in

tears.

Without any evidence, Ben is in over his head.

The neighbors, alerted by the blast of the gun, come out of

their houses to find out what has happened.

Ben stands alone, looking like a mad man...

Amy holds back her tears and tries to stay in control-

With gun in hand, Ben walks away, dismayed, as he gradually

becomes aware of the situation he has just created.

He enters his car and drives off at top speed.

Ben drives nervously. He feels guilty about his conduct in front

of the children. A thousand thoughts rush through his head,

leaving him in an utter state of confusion. He doesn't know what

to do nor what to think anymore.

Ben reaches for his cell phone and dials Larry's number-

Ben hangs up.

He glances back at the rear view mirror and sees ANGELA'S

CORPSE, SITTING ON THE BACK SEAT!

Startled, he loses control of the vehicle. A truck approaches at

full speed in the opposite lane. He barely avoids the collision.

Two other cars appear. Ben zigzags in and out, just barely

avoiding a fatal crash.

He stops along the edge of the road.

Ben closes his eyes and rests his head against the steering

wheel in an attempt to clear his mind. He looks up into the rear-

view mirror again-

ANGELA'S REFLECTION IS STILL THERE. Behind her long black hair,

she fixes him with a milky gaze.

Ben flies into a rage. HE SMASHES THE REAR-VIEW MIRROR WITH HIS

BARE FIST, REDUCING IT TO SCRAPS...

Ben is alone and lost.

Insert on what is written on the side rear-view mirror-

"OBJECTS IN MIRROR ARE CLOSER THAN THEY APPEAR"

Under the pouring rain, the police patrol cars come and go in

front of the police station.

A bit further away we recognize Ben's Oldsmobile, parked on an

adjacent street. Ben is waiting inside.

A man approaches, knocks on the car window and enters the

vehicle. It's LARRY-

The rainwater drips down his raincoat. Under his arm he holds a

file of documents, wrapped in a plastic bag.

Ben nervously tears open the plastic wrapping-

Ben skims through the pages. He cannot believe that he has

finally discovered who Esseker is...

Larry notices the broken rear-view mirror-

Ben is too absorbed in the records. He doesn't answer.

Ben squints at him.

Ben freezes-

Ben heads home with the file containing Anna's medical records.

He walks through the lobby of his building.

Angela's apartment is plunged in total darkness-

Ben lays Anna Esseker's file on the coffee table and aims the

desk lamp at his "research corner" on the wall.

He turns the lamp back at the file and sits down to study it.

WHY ARE THE MIRRORS ASKING FOR ANNA IF SHE'S ALREADY DEAD? WHY?

IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE...

On an index card filled in by Anna's parents in September 1952,

Ben finds a Pennsylvania home address.

Dr. Kane's first diagnosis is irrevocable - "Despite her young

age, Anna Esseker suffers from severe schizophrenia, leading to

withdrawal from reality, delusional and violent behavior."

He shuffles through the first few pages of various

administrative documents.

His eye lands on several photographs of Anna taken at the time

she was admitted to the hospital- She is just a child, yet, six

male nurses were needed to restrain and immobilize her in front

of the photographer. Her face is hardly discernible as she

struggles like a wild animal.

A high-pitched sound of cracking glass is heard from behind. Ben

turns around-

Another loud crack - It comes from one of the covered mirrors in

the apartment.

Ben rises slowly to his feet and comes closer. He removes the

sheet hanging on the frame-

A crack has appeared in the upper corner of the mirror. Ben

casts his eyes over the reflection. His glance comes to rest on

Anna's file laying on the desk-

He goes to fetch the photograph of the little girl and presents

it to the mirror-

KRAAAAACK - the crack in the mirror spreads, as if some kind of

pressure were applied on the other side of the mirror as a

reaction to the photograph...

All of a sudden, Ben realizes something. He runs back to the

file on the table and goes through the documents again, one by

one.

He stops on a carbon copy of a hospital release form and checks

the date.

His eyes light up-

According to the document, Anna left two days before the

massacre!

The next morning-

Through the half-opened door at the end of the hallway, we see

Daisy brushing her teeth before going to school. The little girl

is humming as she watches herself in the mirror...

Amy comes out of her room-

She passes in front of the children's room and stops- INSIDE,

MICHAEL IS TALKING TO SOMEBODY. Amy listens closely, but she can

only hear Michael's voice. On the other side of the door, the

little boy bursts out in laughter-

She opens the door and finds her son squatting in front of the

mirror, talking to his own reflection.

The little boy does as his mother says.      He gets up and dashes

out of the room.

Amy's glance freezes in horror. Terrified, she almost loses her

balance-

MICHAEL'S REFLECTION IS STILL IN THE MIRROR, SITTING IN A

SQUATTING POSITION!

HE LOOKS AT AMY WITH A BIG SMILE.

Amy attempts to speak but can't-

The mirror image of her son remains silent.

Amy steps closer to the mirror and, in the reflection, behind

the boy, she discovers-

HER MIRROR IMAGE IS THERE TOO, BEARING THE SAME FORCED GRIN...

The phone rings. Ben wakes up in a jolt and picks it up- AMY IS

ON THE OTHER END OF THE LINE, IN TEARS.

Amy cannot get the words out. The convulsive sobs overtake her

voice.

Ben runs to his car and throws the Esseker file on the passenger

seat. He drives off at full speed and disappears at the far end

of the road.

On 38th Street, away from the hustle and bustle of Broadway, the

Mayflower facade is unsettling and disturbing.

AMIDST THE RUINS OF THE DESERTED DEPARTMENT STORE, THE MIRRORS

ARE WAITING PATIENTLY FOR THEIR TIME TO COME...

When he arrives, Ben finds his wife waiting in front of the

house. The kids are playing in the snow. Ben's car pulls up in

the driveway.

Amy throws herself into his arms, crying with relief.

Ben comforts her, holding her tightly with all his strength.

Ben has brought up some more paint from the basement. With Amy's

help he paints over all the mirrors in the house. In the face of

this hardship, all the arguments seem far away. We can feel a

connection between the two of them.

The windowpanes and picture frames have been wrapped securely

with newspaper and tape.

Every inch of reflective surface in the house, such as the TV-

screen and the shiny taps, have been "neutralized" with strips

of masking tape...

IN NO TIME, THERE IS NOT A SINGLE SURFACE CAPABLE OF REFLECTING

LIGHT LEFT IN THE HOUSE.

The front door of the house opens. On the landing of the front

steps, Ben kisses Daisy goodbye.

He kisses Michael who hugs him back-

He strokes Michael gently on the head and goes to his car. Daisy

and Michael watch their father leave.

Amy walks him to the vehicle-

Ben holds her tightly in his arms and plants a tender kiss on

her forehead.

Amy interrupts him.

Ben gets into the car.

Tears well up in Amy's eyes. He takes her hand-

She smiles tenderly. Ben drives off.

Behind the screen, a silhouette awaits him.

Ben sits down. Even at a short distance he cannot discern the

face of Anna Esseker, who is now Sister Anna.

For a split second, Ben makes eye contact with Anna behind the

screen. She has understood...

Sister Anna remains silent-

We can feel the emotion in her voice.

Everything is now making sense for Ben-

She stands to leave.

He tried to redial but that doesn't work. He knows something

weird is happening there.

Without hesitation, Ben grabs his gun inside the car and walks

back towards the monastery gates.

Unsure of what she saw, Amy makes a step towards the mirror but

only finds her own reflection.

She picks up the phone- The water shorted it out...

Cautiously, Amy walks up to the bathroom.

She opens the door- the sink and bathtub are filled with water

overflowing onto the tiled floor. Michael is not there.

A hand enters frame to light some candles.

Sister Anna is back in her cell. The way her hand shakes as she

carries the match from one candle to the other betrays how upset

she is by the confrontation with Ben- It's been too much time

that she's carrying the guilt.

She runs the rosary nervously between her fingers and kneels

down in front of her bed to pray when-

A loud muted sound followed by a sudden wave of agitation is

heard outside the cell. Someone has broken into the monastery.

She recognizes Ben's voice- Like a mad man, he's looking for her

everywhere and threatens the other nuns to show him the way.

Anna stands up when Ben bursts into her cell with his gun in his

hand. Behind him, the other nuns are terrified.

Ben points the gun at Anna-

