<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Mulholland Drive Screenplay

EXT.  NIGHT - HOLLYWOOD HILLS, LOS ANGELES

Darkness. Distant sounds of freeway traffic. Then the closer

sound of a car - its headlights illumine an oleander bush and

the limbs of an Eucalyptus tree. Then the headlights turn - a

street sign is suddenly brightly lit. The words on the sign

read... "Mulholland Drive." The car moves under the sign as

it turns and the words fall once again into darkness.

EXT. NIGHT - MULHOLLAND DRIVE

Gliding we follow the car - an older black Cadillac limousine

- as it winds its way up Mulholland Drive through the

darkness of the Hollywood Hills. There is no one else on the

road. As we drift closer to the car...

INT. BLACK CADILLAC LIMOUSINE - NIGHT

Two men in dark suits are sitting in the front seat. A

beautiful, younger, dark-haired woman sits in back. She sits

close up against the door and stares out into the darkness.

She seems to be thinking about something. Suddenly she turns

and looks ahead. The car is slowing and moving off to the

side of the road.

The car stops - half on, half off the road at a dark, blind

curve. Both men turn to the woman.

EXT.  FURTHER UP MULHOLLAND DRIVE - NIGHT

Two cars - a convertible and a late model sedan are drag

racing toward the blind curve blocking the view of the

Cadillac limousine. The cars are filled with crazed

teenagers. Two girls are standing up through the sunroof of

the sedan screaming as their hair is whipped straight back.

The cars are travelling so fast that they seem to almost

float as they fly with psychotic speed down both lanes of

Mulholland Drive.

INT. EXT. - CADILLAC LIMOUSINE

The driver, still in his seat, has a pistol with a silencer

attached pointing at the woman. The other man is getting out

of the car. The woman is clutching the seat and the door

handle as if trying to anchor herself. She is visibly afraid.

The man who got out of the car tries the woman's door, but it

is locked. He smiles as he reaches in through the front door

and unlocks her door. He opens her door. As he reaches for

her, the woman's face becomes flooded with light. Her eyes

dart to the front windshield. The driver, flooded with light,

turns just as the late model sedan slams into the Cadillac

limousine. There is an explosion of metal and glass amidst

thunderous tearing sounds as the two cars become one in

death. The convertible screams past with hardly a notice.

The driver of the limousine dies instantly as his body is

jettisoned through the windshield. The other man is torn as

the cars screech over him. The woman is brutally thrown into

the back of the front seats as a cloud of dust and flying

rocks engulfs her. The disastrous moving sculpture of the two

cars wants to climb up the hill, then stops and slides back

toward the road The Cadillac tips onto its side. Then all is

silent. A fire erupts in the sedan and as the dust clears we

see the woman appear, then crawl out of the Cadillac to the

road. Her face is vacant. There is a bleeding cut just above

her forehead. She stands for a moment clutching her purse -

lost , then begins to walk as if in a trance across

Mulholland down through the bushes and into darkness.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - LATER - NIGHT

The woman slides down a hill through tangles of hostile

desert plants. Sirens can be heard in the distance. She

crosses through some trees and is suddenly confronted by a

coyote which snarls and leaps at her. She screams and strikes

out with her purse in self defense. The coyote backs away -

snarling. The woman then loses control and runs at the coyote

and it races off. She falls to the ground. We can hear the

thunder of her heartbeat as the sirens grow louder. She gets

up and stumbles through the trees. When she clears them she

is standing overlooking all of Los Angeles glowing down

below. She clumsily starts down toward it.

HOLLYWOOD STREETS - LATER - NIGHT

The woman slides down a dusty hill and finds herself at

Franklin Avenue. A car races by and its headlights flare on

her face. Her expression shows fear and panic. She doesn't

know where she is or where to go. She runs frantically across

the street. She moves quickly to a sidewalk which takes her

into a residential area.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD STREETS - LATER - NIGHT

The woman crosses Sunset Boulevard. Coming up Sunset in the

distance is a police car with its sirens and lights going.

She hurries into the darkness of another residential area. A

car turns onto the street and comes toward her. She

instinctively moves behind a tree until it passes.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD STREETS - LATER - NIGHT

As if being hunted in a foreign land the woman moves

desperately down another residential street. A drunken couple

round the corner up ahead and start up the sidewalk toward

her. She runs off the sidewalk and into the bushes in front

of an apartment building. The couple passes by without

noticing her. Feeling safe in these bushes her exhaustion

overtakes her and she lays her head down to sleep.

EXT.  MULHOLLAND DRIVE   - NIGHT

Police, paramedics surround the wreckage. Two detectives,

HARRY MCKNIGHT and NEAL DOMGAARD (both mid 40's to 50), stare

at the remains of the two cars glowing white hot under the

crime scene lights. A coroner's van pulls out just after an

ambulance. The ambulance's siren begins to wail as it speeds

off. The coroner's van cruises slowly. Detective Harry

McKnight and Detective Neal Domgaard continue staring. They

do not look at each other. They are each motionless for a

long moment.

They continue to stare.

Neal holds up a plastic bag holding a pearl earring.

Detective Harry McKnight turns and crosses Mulholland. His

eyes move over each blade of grass at the shoulder - each

desert bush just beyond. He slowly raises his gaze to the

shining lights of Hollywood laying far below like a galaxy.

He looks out and wonders.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD STREETS - EARLY DAWN

The clang of a metal gate wakes the woman. It is just getting

light and she sees an older red-headed woman carrying a

suitcase to the curb where a cab stands waiting with its

trunk open. The cab driver appears with two suitcases which

he sets down next to the car. The red-headed woman and the

cab driver both go back through the iron gate. The woman in

the bushes pulls herself to the gate where she can peer into

the courtyard of this apartment building. She sees the red-

headed woman and the cab driver go into an apartment and come

back out with more luggage.

They leave the apartment door open. When the red-headed woman

and the cab driver reach the cab they both begin loading the

bags into the trunk and backseat. Their backs are to the

woman in the bushes who takes this opportunity to go quickly

into the courtyard and through the open apartment door.

INT. APARTMENT - EARLY DAWN

The woman comes into a living room where a single trunk

remains. She goes further into the apartment and crouches

down in a back corner of the kitchen. She listens as

footsteps come across the courtyard. She hears the red-headed

woman and the cab driver get the trunk. She hears them set it

down once they have it in the courtyard. She hears the steps

of the red-headed woman come back inside the apartment. She

hears the footsteps go all around the apartment and then she

hears the footsteps come toward the kitchen. Remaining

frozen, the dark-haired woman's eyes look up as the red-

headed woman walks right past her, grabs a set of keys off

the kitchen counter, then leaves the apartment. The woman can

hear the door being locked. She lets go, slides to the

kitchen floor, and passes out.

INT. DENNY'S RESTAURANT , HOLLYWOOD - MORNING

Two well-dressed men HERB and DAN (mid 30's) are sitting at a

table drinking coffee. Herb has finished eating his

breakfast, but Dan hasn't touched his bacon and eggs - he

appears too nervous to eat. A blonde waitress with a

nameplate saying "DIANE" lays the check on their table

smiles, then walks off.

Herb stares at Dan to see if he will continue. Dan looks

around nervously, then stares at his uneaten food.

Herb gets up, picks up the bill and goes to the cashier to

pay. Dan just sits.

As Herb is paying the bill he looks over at Dan just as Dan

is turning to look at him. From Dan's point of view Herb is

standing in exactly the same spot as he stood in the dream.

Herb gets a strange feeling, turns back and finishes up with

the cashier. He motions for Dan to follow him. Dan rises

reluctantly and he and Herb make their way outside.

EXT. DENNY'S

Now Herb waits for Dan to lead the way.

Dan takes Herb across the front of Denny's to a narrow

sidewalk that leads down the side toward the back.

They begin walking down the narrow sidewalk - past a

payphone. Dan begins to sweat the nearer he gets to the rear

corner of the building. Red bricks glide by slowly.

CLOSER ON DAN

Beads of sweat cover his face. He finds it difficult to

breathe. Herb is just behind him unable to see the fear

overtaking his friend, but Herb can feel something himself.

The red bricks moving by now are coming to an end - the

corner is coming closer - the corner is now very close.

Suddenly a man - a face ... a face dark and bum-like- moves

quickly out from behind the corner and stops - freezes -

staring into Dan's eyes.

Dan lurches back. All his breath is suddenly gone. He falls

back into Herb who tries to catch him as he's falling. Dan

hits the ground unable to breathe - his eyes wide with

horror.

Herb looks up - the man is gone. He looks down to Dan.

He kneels down and studies his friend. He feels for a pulse

in the neck. He listens for breathing. His friend is dead.

EXT.  LAX AIRPORT - DAY

The airport sits in blinding sunlight and veiled with smog.

A big jet lands.

INT. LAX AIRPORT

A blonde girl walking with an old woman approaches us. As the

blonde's face fills the screen we move with her and stay with

her as she goes. Her face is bright and her eyes move here

and there taking in everything. She can hardly believe she's

in Los Angeles - the City of Dreams. She and the old woman

pass under a sign which reads "WELCOME TO LOS ANGELES."

The girl smiles and looks around excited by every detail.

EXT. LAX AIRPORT

The girl and the old lady exit the terminal with their bags.

An older gentleman has joined the old lady. They stop at the

taxicab stand. The old lady takes the blonde girl's hand.

Betty and Irene give each other a hug. The old gentleman nods

to Betty and takes Irene off. Betty smiles after them.

Suddenly someone is grabbing her bags. She turns abruptly to

find she is next in line and her cab is waiting. She turns

once more and waves at Irene as her bags are loaded into the

trunk of the cab.

They get into the cab and close their doors. The cab pulls

away.

EXT. STREETS - LOS ANGELES - DAY

Betty goes from the right side of the cab to the left side of

the cab looking at every building, tree and sign. Each street

sign seems to be magical to her and she says the names to

herself as they pass by. She sees La Tijera, La Cienega,

Venice Boulevard, Pico Boulevard, Olympic Boulevard, Wilshire

Boulevard, etc., etc. until they reach Fountain and turn

right. Betty's heart is pounding when she sees Havenhurst

and the cab turns left. In the middle of the block on the

right the cab pulls over and stops. Betty sees her new

home ... an ancient, gorgeous courtyard apartment building,

built during the golden age of cinema.

EXT. 1612 HAVENHURST

The cab driver puts Betty's bags down on the sidewalk next to

her. She can barely stop looking at the building long enough

to pay the cab driver who then goes off and drives away.

Betty picks up her bags and enters, as if in a dream, through

an ornate iron gate to a courtyard with a beautiful working

fountain at its center. A sign on a door to her right reads

Manager and she rings the bell.

An older, once very beautiful, woman wearing heavy make-up

and smoking a cigarette in a silver holder opens the door.

An unbelievable raspy voice comes out through the dark screen

of the still closed screen door.

Coco returns with the key and opens the screen door inhaling

a huge drag off her cigarette. She starts off into the

courtyard and Betty picks up her bags and follows. As Coco

speaks smoke comes out of her with every word.

A haunting music begins to swell.

The music fades.

Coco looks down suddenly. On the cobblestone courtyard in

front of her she sees a fresh product of waste from a dog.

She angrily turns up to an apartment on the second level.

Coco turns back to Betty.

INT. APARTMENT - BEDROOM

The dirty and torn black cocktail dress of the dark-haired

woman along with her shoes, purse and undergarments are in a

pile in the bedroom. We drift off them toward the bathroom

where the dark-haired woman can be seen showering through

rippled glass. There's the sound of a door opening. We see a

movement through the glass and the shower goes off instantly.

We can hear the dark-haired woman's frightened breathing as

she waits frozen listening.

INT. APARTMENT  LIVING ROOM

Betty enters, thrilled with what she sees. The apartment is

filled with movie memorabilia, deco furniture, oriental rugs,

brass floor lamps and a massive tiled fireplace. She sets her

bags down and stares.

Coco leaves and closes the door behind her. Betty begins to

explore the apartment.- After walking a circle in the living

room she passes through the kitchen. She moves down a

hallway looking at paintings and posters. She goes into the

bedroom. She smiles when she sees the bed which has a huge

ornately carved head and foot board. She notices the soiled

dress on the floor and she frowns as she looks closer. She

stands back up, shrugs and goes into the bathroom which has

all the original thirties fixtures damndest floor to ceiling

tiles. As she goes toward the sink she smiles to herself in

the mirror above it. Suddenly something catches her eye and

she opens the shower stall. There before her is the naked,

beautiful dark-haired woman.

She quickly closes the shower door.

There's a silence.

There is another silence.

Betty goes to the bathroom door and is closing it when she

stops and looks back in.

We see a close-up of the dark-haired woman. We see her eyes

widen with a kind of fear. She's frantically thinking -

searching her mind for an answer.

INT. APARTMENT BEDROOM

Betty is unpacking in the bedroom and putting her belongings

in the closet and the dresser drawers. Many of her Aunt's

things are still there.

INT.  APARTMENT BATHROOM

The dark-haired woman is looking at herself in the mirror.

She turns and begins looking around the bathroom at shampoos,

cosmetics, until her eyes fall on a poster of "Gilda"

starring Rita Hayworth.

INT. APARTMENT BEDROOM

The bathroom door opens and the dark-haired woman comes out

wrapped in a towel. She's drying her hair with another. She

and Betty stare at one another.

Betty goes to Rita.

Betty sits Rita on the bed. She leans down and looks at her

head and face.

Rita motions to her head above her forehead. Betty looks

through her hair and finds her wound which has stopped

bleeding but is surrounded by a very large blue black

bruising.

Rita lies down and is instantly asleep. Betty leans over her

and listens to her breathing. She gets a blanket and drapes

it over the beautiful sleeping Rita, then leaves the room.

EXT. - DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES - LOW RENT OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

The street level of the office building is filthy and houses

stores selling racks of cheap toys. Up above we see office

windows and a big sign saying "Office Space For Rent" along

with a telephone number to call. We drift in toward one of

the windows on the sixth floor.

INT. OFFICE ON SIXTH FLOOR

Two men are in the room, JOE and ED. Joe leans up against a

rack of filing cabinets. He is in his late twenties. He

looks like a run down, heavy metal rocker - wears a blue

denim shirt open, T-shirt underneath, black denim jeans and

motorcycle boots. His black belt has silver studs. He's

smoking a cigarette and is laughing at something the man at

the desk has said. His laugh is easy and his grin is

infectious.

The man at the desk, Ed, wears a clean, crisp black suit,

like a business man's but unlike a business man his blonde

hair is long enough to go over his shoulders.

Looking like he's rubbing the small of his back Joe moves

over to Ed at his desk. Joe looks down to the surface of the

desk - to a small worn black book.

Joe's hand still at the small of his back moves into view

holding a silenced pistol and in one swift move reaches out

and fires a hole through Ed's temple - blowing Ed's brains

out across the desk, carpet and wall. Ed's head bangs down

on the desk, then is still save the leaking of blood from the

wounds. Joe flips his finished cigarette out the open window

behind Ed's desk, wipes the gun clean with a handkerchief and

places the cleaned gun in Ed's right hand. He places Ed's

right forefinger gently onto the trigger. As he puts the

finger on the trigger he presses a little too hard and the

gun goes off. The bullet shoots out and penetrates the cheap

wall at the far end of Ed's office. Joe hears a muffled

scream.

With a sense of "just more stuff I got to do" Joe moves

slowly and begrudgingly out of Ed's office, checks the

corridor and goes toward the screaming which still persists.

He opens up the office door next to Ed's and finds a heavy

set woman screaming bloody murder as she is grabbing her

buttock and lower back. He sighs and walks over to her and

cups his hand tightly around her mouth to squelch the

screaming. Wide-eyed, she tries to fight him off and he

begins dragging her out of her office. Joe's foot catches on

a computer cable clumsily taped across the floor and he falls

backwards bringing the heavy woman down with a bone-crushing

blow on top of him. The woman begins beating his face with

her meaty fists. Joe snaps her head back, instantly stilling

her violent activity. He wrestles the stunned heavyweight

back to her feet and out her door. He pushes and pulls her

into Ed's office. Just before they enter, Joe notices a man

with a vacuum cleaner watching him from the far end of the

corridor. He stops and calls to the man.

The man hesitates...not sure if this jives with what he's

seeing.

Joe pushes the woman inside Ed's office, throws a glance back

down the corridor and sees the man is on his way to him,

pushing his industrial vacuum and trailing a 200 ft. long

thick black cord as he goes. Joe goes in to Ed's office

with the woman. He throws her down on the floor in line

between Ed's desk and the bullet hole in the wall. She

starts screaming immediately and struggles to get up. Joe

grabs the pistol from Ed's dead hand and lifts it to fire,

but the woman has turned around and is almost standing.

He goes to her, slaps her hard in the face and spins her

around. Before she can turn again Joe races back to place

himself in the proper line at Ed's desk and quickly fires two

silenced shots into the back of her head. The man with the

vacuum enters. His eyes begin to widen in reaction to the

scene. Just then Joe fires a bullet into the man's chest.

The man inadvertently flicks on the vacuum cleaner as his

hands rush up to the wound. As the vacuum cleaner whines Joe

rushes to the man before the man falls back out into the

corridor. He pulls him into the room - the man moaning and

clutching his chest, starting to collapse. Joe releases him

and the man goes down. The vacuum cleaner seems to be

screeching now in the threshold. Joe fires the last bullet

into the heavy duty vacuum cleaner. The bullet shorts out

the internal wiring of the vacuum. That in turn blows the

building's circuit breaker and all the lights go out.

Now he hears voices - voices moving into the corridor.

Joe cleans the pistol once again and places it back in

Eddie's hand - Eddie's finger on the trigger. Joe picks up

the black book - turns and makes his escape by going out the

office window and quickly descending the rusty fire escape.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - CENTURY CITY BUILDING - DAY

We see three men sitting at a conference table RAYMOND(RAY)

HOTT -president of production, wearing a crisp blue

suit,VINCENT DARBY -senior vice-president, wearing a crisp

green suit and ROBERT SMITH -talent manager, wearing a crisp

brown suit. Ray and Mr. Darby sit at the head of the table

and Robert Smith sits along the side. A younger man -ADAM

KESHER enters and sits down, with an arrogant nonchalance,

next to Robert Smith. Adam is dressed in a frumpy old

fashioned plaid shirt, worn jacket, dark blue cotton slacks,

and a pair of old brown wing tips. As he sits he is holding

and twirling a vintage "7-iron" golf club.

Silence for a moment. A man enters through a rear door and

whispers something to Mr. Darby and shows him something on a

piece of paper. Mr. Darby studies the piece of paper.

The man who entered points to something on the paper.

The man nods and leaves.

Robert Smith shuffles nervously in his chair next to Adam.

EXT. CENTURY CITY - DAY

Before us is a huge modern office building of glass and

steel. Two men in dark suits have exited a large limousine

and are walking up into the building. We drift up the facade,

higher and higher moving in toward the top of the building.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

The men exit an elevator and move through a lobby where a

plaque beneath an enormous bronze sculpture reads "Ryan

Entertainment". Gliding we travel behind the two men down a

wide, carpeted hallway with blonde wood and glass on each

side. They enter through two large blonde wooden doors to the

conference room.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

The men in dark suits go in as if they owned the place. Ray,

Mr. Darby and Robert Smith stand immediately. Adam remains

seated. Mr. Darby is the only one near enough to attempt a

hand shake, but when he offers his hand it is not taken. The

men in dark suits sit down without wasting a movement and

without acknowledging anyone. One of the men in a dark suit

opens a briefcase. Ray has been trying to make

introductions.

The Castigliane brothers do not acknowledge any of this,

however, during the introductions the one with the briefcase

removes a photo of a girl and sets it in front of Ray.

We see the photo of the girl - of a nice looking blonde -

someone we've never seen before. Adam looks like he doesn't

know what's going on and he's getting upset about not

knowing. His manager, Robert Smith, is beginning to see the

makings of a confrontation - he's starting to panic.

Ray, still standing with a forced smile, turns to the

Castigliane brothers.

Luigi Castigliane's espresso is brought in by the man who had

been in earlier. The man sets the espresso down in front of

Luigi and takes a step back. The room becomes silent -

watching the Espresso Man and Luigi. Without looking up Luigi

speaks softly.

The Espresso Man leaves the room. Luigi looks at the

espresso. Vincenzo stares at Adam.

Adam is doing his best to stare down Vincenzo. The Espresso

man returns with a cloth napkin and lays it down next to the

espresso.

Luigi doesn't answer and after a moment of standing very

still waiting, the Espresso Man turns and leaves the room.

Adam is stared down by Vincenzo and averts his eyes to the

espresso cup. He looks around at Ray and Mr. Darby - seeing

them stare at the espresso cup.

Vincenzo keeps staring at Adam.

Luigi picks up the napkin and holds it in his left hand.

With his right hand he lifts the espresso cup and places it

above the napkin. He brings the cup and napkin to his mouth.

He takes a sip of espresso. A small fleeting expression forms

on Luigi's impassive face as if for one millisecond he is

going to vomit. His mouth opens and he allows the espresso

to fall and dribble onto the napkin. He pushes any remaining

espresso in his mouth out with his tongue. He holds it in

that position for a moment.

Luigi Castigliane stands up.

Luigi just stands there. A small thread on his left suit

jacket pocket catches his attention and he smooths it back

into the fabric. Vincenzo closes his briefcase, takes out a

hankerchief and cleans his nose - then stands, placing the

handkerchief back in his pocket.

Vincenzo just stares toward Adam as if he's not even there.

Silence.

The Castigliane brothers begin to leave. Adam stands up

trembling with anger.

Adam turns white and stands very still as this sinks in. The

Castigliane brothers leave. As the big blonde wood doors

close behind them Adam starts to boil.

Adam storms out of the room.

EXTERIOR - OFFICE BUILDING - CENTURY CITY - DAY

Adam exits the building carrying his 7-iron. An attendant

takes his valet parking ticket. While Adam, still fuming,

waits for his car he notices the big limo standing off to one

side. He stares at the car and the huge limo driver leaning

up against the front driver's side door.

Adam's car arrives - a late model Porsche. Before Adam gets

into his car he addresses the attendant.

Adam nods and walks over to the limo. The limo driver eyes

him and his 7-iron suspiciously.

Adam raises his 7-iron and smashes out the limo's windshield.

He whacks two big dents in the hood, then smashes out a

headlight. The limo driver starts towards him. Adam laughs,

runs to his car and takes off.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - LATER DAY

Betty is stretched out on the big leather couch in the living

room. A half eaten sandwich and chips are on a plate on the

coffee table next to her. She is talking on the phone.

Betty hangs up the phone, takes a big bite of her sandwich

and lays flat out on the couch, chewing and smiling up at the

ceiling. She suddenly remembers Rita and her promise to look

in on her. She gets off the couch and goes into the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Rita is still asleep when she enters. She leans down and

finds Rita breathing normally. She feels her forehead.

Satisfied that all is well, Betty quietly leaves the bedroom.

INT. - EXT. APARTMENT - DAY

Betty rinses her dishes in the kitchen sink and pours herself

a cup of coffee. She takes the coffee outside to the

courtyard - to a white metal table just outside her doorway.

She sits down and stretches in the warm afternoon sun.

Across the way she can hear a blues saxophonist practicing in

one of the apartments. She drinks her coffee and listens to

the music.

Some birds fly by overhead. She takes another sip of coffee.

The blues music which was mellow and slow is now building in

tempo and volume. The phone inside rings. Betty takes her

coffee back into the living room, shutting the door behind

her. She crosses to the leather couch and picks up the

phone.

Betty slowly and quietly hangs up the phone. She sits for a

moment listening. Silently she stands and moves toward the

bedroom. As she approaches the bedroom door she stops at

something she sees. Rita is sitting on the edge of the bed

crying quietly. Betty goes into the bedroom. Rita looks up

at her with desperation.

Rita starts crying harder, bows down, covering her face with

her hands.

Betty's heart softens.

Betty kneels down in front of her.

Betty looks down at the purse next to Rita's dress. She picks

it up and hands it to Rita.

Rita takes the purse with sudden trepidation. She hesitates.

Something is worrying her. She looks at Betty for help.

Rita slowly unzips the purse. The pressure of its contents

force the mouth of the purse to widen as the zipper opens and

then there is suddenly revealed what will later be known to

be $125,000.00 cash in hundred dollar bills.

Both Rita and Betty almost stop breathing. They look at each

other, then back to the money.

Rita takes the massive wad of bills out of the purse and sets

it on the bed. She reaches back inside and comes up with the

only other remaining item in the purse ... A BLUE KEY. Betty

sees Rita's expression change to a kind of

horror

.

(note: This blue key is made of very fine heavy metal and

does not look like a door key.)

INTERIOR - OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Ray crosses a carpeted closed area. He mounts a flight of

stairs. At the top of the stairs there's a plain blonde wood

door. Ray punches in a code on a security panel next to it.

The door opens automatically. Ray passes through and goes

down a narrow hall. At the end of the hall there is a small

elevator. Again Ray punches in a code. The elevator opens and

Ray goes in. The elevator door closes, but the elevator does

not move. Ray waits. Finally, a woman's voice comes through a

speaker.

The elevator begins to move up. When it stops, the door opens

and Ray walks into a windowless reception area where a

beautiful Italian woman sits behind a large, blonde, modern,

built-in desk.

Ray crosses to a blonde wood double door and waits. The

receptionist pushes a button behind her desk - chimes sound

as the double doors open to an enormous office with no

windows. Heavy rich brown curtains line the walls.

Ray enters and the doors close behind him. Ray takes a few

steps forward, then stops. There is a solid glass wall that

we now notice running the width of the office. Cut into the

glass wall is a small speaker microphone apparatus. Beyond

the glass off in the center of the room is a man sitting in a

very plain, blonde, wood, modern, yet not motorized,

wheelchair. The man is paralyzed except for his right hand

and head. His head appears small in relation to the size of

his body. His suit is immaculate and one of the finest we've

ever seen. His manservant stands in the shadows behind him.

Mr. Roque stares at Ray silently.

Mr. Roque continues to stare.

Silence. Ray doesn't know what to do. He struggles to

interpret Mr. Roque's silence. He waits. Mr. Roque does

nothing but stare.

Silence.

Ray turns. The doors open as he approaches them and he

leaves the room. The doors close.

EXTERIOR - OFFICE BUILDING - CENTURY CITY

Vincenzo and Luigi are staring silently and without

expression at the broken windshield of the limousine. The

limousine driver suddenly starts signaling to a car entering

the driveway to the building. He turns to the Castigliane

brothers.

The limo driver opens the rear door of the new limo, then

hurries around and opens the other rear door. The new driver

gets out of the car.

The limo driver closes both back doors after the Castigliane

brothers are seated within. He then gets in himself and

maneuvers the big limo out into traffic.

PINK'S CHILI DOGS - DAY

Two guys, JOE ( the guy who killed Ed in the sixth floor

office) and BILLY another unkept, rocker type delivery man

are standing waiting for their chili dogs with a girl, LANEY,

who could be very good looking but she seems to be in poor

health. Her hair is long and stringy. She's wearing a

tight, short sleeve blue sweater, black jeans and boots.

The chili dogs arrive and they pay for them.

The three make their way to the van. Joe looks over at

Laney.

As Laney is getting her cigarette and lighting it..

Joe spanks her butt as she gets in the van.

INT.  MR. ROQUE'S OFFICE - DAY

Mr. Roque, in his wheelchair is still in the center of the

huge softly lit, windowless office. His manservant standing

silently behind him. The small built-in wheelchair phone

rings. Mr. Roque pushes a button on a small intricate remote

device he holds in his right hand. A slender streamlined

microphone rises from the arm of the chair.

He listens through a high-tech earplant which we now see.

He pushes two buttons, one after another on the remote

device. We hear a small click, a dial tone, a number being

dialed, and a phone ringing.

INT. DARK ELEGANT ROOM - SOMEWHERE - SIMULTANEOUS

We see the back of a man's head and just over his shoulder we

see the top of the phone which is ringing. The man picks up

the phone and brings the receiver to his ear.

INT.  MR. ROQUE'S OFFICE   -   SIMULTANEOUS

We hear a small click and the line goes dead. Mr. Roque

pushes a button and the microphone descends back into the

chair.

INT. DARK ELEGANT ROOM - SOMEWHERE

Again we see the back of the man's head. He's dialing a new

number. -He brings the receiver to his ear. We hear a phone

ringing - we hear a click- the phone being answered.

INT. FILTHY LOW CLASS KITCHEN - SOMEWHERE - SIMULTANEOUS

We see only a black rotary wall phone and a portion of a

greasy filthy kitchen - The receiver has already been lifted

off the phone and we see only the cord extending to someone

off screen.

INT. DARK ELEGANT ROOM - SOMEWHERE

Again we see only the back of the man's head.

INT. FILTHY LOW CLASS KITCHEN - SOMEWHERE - SIMULTANEOUS

A man's hairy-arm enters frame and the receiver is placed

back on the phone, then immediately picked back up and with

the receiver held in the hand the hairy man dials a new

number. Part way through the dialing...

INT. A BLUE TABLE - SOMEWHERE - SIMULTANEOUS

The surface of this table is high gloss ultra smooth

material. A very modern phone sits on this table and begins

to ring softly. A hand enters frame - a woman's hand. The

skin is pale white, almost translucent. The fingers are long

and seem slightly too large. At the ends of the fingers and

thumb are stretched tapered high gloss red fingernails which

slightly curve downward. The forefinger of the hand presses

a button on the phone. A small tone sounds - followed by a

very modern sounding coded signal.

INT. - AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - day

We pull back from Rita's face until we see that Betty and

Rita are sitting on the leather couch about four feet apart

staring at the floor. They just sit this way for awhile.

Betty thinks about what Rita has said. Somehow it seems to

make sense to her.

Silence.

BEVERLY HILLS CITY STREETS - DAY

A car - a late model generic sedan is moving toward us. Two

men dressed in suits and wearing dark glasses are driving

slowly. As they go each man is scanning sidewalks,

buildings, passing cars as if hunting for someone. They pass

by us and as we turn we leave them and pick-up Adam driving

in the opposite direction in the other lane. We stay with

Adam.

Adam drives his Porsche up a palm lined street.

The voice activated phone connects the line to Adam's office.

A secretary answers.

Another ringing sound, then a voice.

Adam listens to dead silence for a moment or two then Cynthia

speaks.

EXT. - 1612 HAVENHURST - DAY

ESTABLISH

INT . AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - DAY

The girls are still sitting on the leather couch as before,

but now silently off in their own worlds. After a moment...

Betty's question hangs in the air. Slowly we move close to

Rita who is on the verge of remembering something.

Suddenly -

Rita sits worrying.

AUNT RUTH'S BEDROOM - DAY

Betty laughs as she holds one of Ruth's dresses in front of

Rita.

Rita laughs along with Betty. Betty goes back in the closet.

She brings out a pair of khaki pants.

EXT. ADAM'S HOUSE - BEL AIR

Adam pulls into his driveway, but is blocked from entering

the garage by a poolman's truck. He gets out of the car and

looks at the truck - sees the insignia on the door which is a

blue square with the word "Gene" above and the word "Clean"

below. Adam hears steps behind him and turns. A JAPANESE

GARDENER is coming toward him smiling and bowing.

Taka reaches out his hand and Adam shakes it.

Taka bows, smiling and nodding, and goes back to work. Adam

heads toward the front door of his house.

INT. - ADAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Adam enters, puts his 7-iron in his golf bag just inside the

door, then looks around. He can see the pool through a wall

of plate glass windows, but there is no one visible poolside.

He hears a noise, something falling. He walks in the

direction of the noise. It leads him to his bedroom. His

expression darkens as he approaches the closed door. He

hears voices as he throws the door open.

LORRAINE and the poolman GENE are in bed.

Adam stands stunned for a moment. Then finds himself walking

over to the dresser and opening the top drawer. He removes a

large case.

Adam starts walking out of the bedroom with the case.

Adam leaves the bedroom and starts through the house. He

goes into the kitchen and looks around - numb but trying to

think.

INT. ADAM AND LORRAINE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Lorraine is getting dressed as fast as she can.

INT. ADAM'S KITCHEN - DAY

Adam leaves the kitchen and goes out into the garage. He

turns on the light and looks around. He spots some paint

cans on a shelf and grabs one and goes back into the kitchen.

He can hear Lorraine calling his name. She seems to be

coming closer. He sets the jewelry case and the paint can on

the floor, kneels down and opens the paint can with his car

key. Just as Lorraine enters the kitchen, he opens the

jewelry box and empties the 3/4 full gallon can of Hot Pink

paint into her jewelry case.

He puts his hands into the paint and jewels and smushes them

about. Lorraine rushes toward him.

Lorraine grabs hold of him. Starts pulling his hair,

slapping his face. She tears his jacket. Adam stands all at

once and with his wet Hot Pink hands he pushes Lorraine and

slams her into the kitchen counter just as Gene the poolman

enters. Gene grabs ahold of Adam, cocks back and slams his

huge suntanned fist into Adam's face.

Adam gets up off the floor bleeding from the nose and tries

to hit Gene. Gene blocks his punch and slams Adam again,

knocking him down to the kitchen floor where he lands and

spills the jewelry case. Adam, now covered with paint, is

picked up by Gene and thrown out toward the front door.

Lorraine opens the front door while Gene picks Adam up, moves

him across the carpet and heaves him out onto the front lawn.

Lorraine slams the door behind him.

Adam picks himself up, severely dazed and bleeding pretty

badly, he heads for his car.

Taka stops gardening and smiles and bows at Adam as he gets

into his car.

Adam drives away - pink paint and red blood all over.

INT.  AUNT RUTH'S BEDROOM - DAY

Rita is now dressed to go out and is studying herself in a

mirror. She turns and her gaze falls to her purse. She

picks it up and looks questioningly at Betty.

They look around the room... There's a hatbox in the closet

above the clothes rack. Betty brings it down, takes out the

hat, and Rita puts the purse inside. Betty puts the hat over

the purse in the hatbox and puts in back in the closet.

Betty puts out her hand. Rita looks at it for a moment,

smiles, and they shake.

EXT. APARTMENT COURTYARD - DAY

All dressed now Betty and Rita leave Aunt Ruth's apartment

and walk across the courtyard past Coco's apartment and out

through the iron gates. No one is about.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

Betty and Rita walk along. Birds are chirping in the trees

which line both sides of the street. Betty is smiling and

once again looking around at everything. Her good mood and

excitement about life lifts Rita's spirits.

Coming toward them on the sidewalk are two people - a middle-

aged woman and a young boy around 10 years old. The boy is

very thin and something is wrong with him as he is walking

awkwardly on crutches. As the two groups pass each other on

the sidewalk Betty is struck deeply by the boy's brilliant,

luminous blue eyes which are at once innocent and filled with

wisdom.

After they pass each other Betty turns back and sees the boy

and the woman enter 1612 Havenhurst. Betty and Rita continue

up the street.

EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD - DAY

The girls walk along the busy boulevard, past guitar shops,

video stores. Betty is looking for a payphone. Rita's eyes

dart back and forth nervously. She's beginning to feel

frightened.

PAYPHONE ON RED BRICK WALL - DAY

We see the red brick building. It is Denny's. Betty and

Rita are walking to the payphone. Betty digs out some change

from her purse. She picks up the receiver, drops in a

quarter and dials the "0" for Operator. An Operator answers.

Betty gets the number for the Hollywood Police Station, re-

deposits the quarter and dials.

Betty holds.

Betty hangs up. She turns to Rita smiling like a girl who's

done something bad and gotten away with it.

Betty and Rita enter Denny's.

INT.- DENNY'S - DAY

Rita and Betty are seated next to the table where Dan and

Herb sat earlier in the day. They both have a cup of coffee

in front of them. Betty has a newspaper open and she is

scanning the last pages.

The same waitress - Diane, comes up to the girl's table and

freshens up their coffee. Betty looks up and smiles, sees

Diane's nameplate.

Rita shoots a look from Betty to Diane to the nameplate.

close-up nameplate

The word "DIANE" is huge from Rita's POV.

Back to scene

Diane finishes pouring Rita's cup and smiles at Betty.

Diane searches through her many checks to find Betty and

Rita's.

The manager of Denny's, standing with a woman in a blue

dress, calls Diane's name. Diane turns and looks to the

manager and the woman. A fleeting fear goes through her

eyes. She surreptitiously reaches in her pocket and takes

out a Mont Blanc fountain pen which she puts under Betty's

check as she places it on their table. She does this very

quickly but Betty notices this and Diane notices Betty

noticing. Diane walks quickly over to the manager and the

woman in the blue dress. Betty turns and watches a heated

conversation that she can't hear, but she sees the woman in

the blue dress searching her purse and shrugging and then

leaving.

The manager says something to Diane and Diane turns her

pockets inside out and pats herself down in front of the

manager showing him her innocence. He waves her off and she

goes behind the counter to retrieve an order of food. Betty

stops watching and turns her attention to Rita, who is tense

and lost in a thought.

At that moment Diane the waitress reappears at their table.

Diane looks Betty in the eye and while looking at Betty her

left hand slides the Mont Blanc out from under the check and

back into her pocket.

Betty holds her gaze.

Relieved Diane leaves and goes about her business. Betty

looks over at Rita waiting for her to tell her something.

Rita slowly turns and focuses on Betty.

EXT. - HAVENHURST - DAY

Betty and Rita are walking back to the apartment. We see

them from a distance. They are talking and gesturing in an

excited and animated way. Just after they enter through the

iron gates of 1612 Havenhurst and are out of sight we notice

a car moving slowly up Havenhurst toward us. We notice two

men in the front seat who seem to be looking around for

something.

INT. - AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - DAY

The door slams shut. Rita grabs Betty's shoulders.

Diane

Selwyn

. Maybe it's my name.

AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Betty and Rita are sitting next to each other on the leather

couch. Betty is rifling through the phone book. She finds

the listings for Selwyn. Her finger drifts down and finds D.

Selwyn followed by an address and phone number. It is the

only Selwyn with a D. first name. She hands the phone to

Rita.

Betty reads the number off and Rita pushes the corresponding

buttons. Each tone seems to be louder than the last. The

ringing seems deafening. There's a click and the phone is

answered - by a machine. A woman's voice is heard - loudly.

Betty now has her ear pressed up against the phone also -

straining to hear everything. The machine starts recording.

Betty hangs up the phone immediately.

EXT. - ADAM'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Taka is bowing and smiling and nodding to someone we don't

see.

TAKA'S POV - A man, KENNY, in a sharp black suit is walking

down the driveway past Gene the Poolman's truck to the front

door of Adam's house. Parked at the street is a big limo

with Vincenzo and Luigi Castigliane sitting in the back.

Kenny knocks on Adam's front door. Lorraine answers.

Lorraine's hands are covered with pink paint. Pink paint is

on her face and clothes.

She slams the door, but Kenny's foot stops it and pushes it

back with a force that shakes the wall as the door slams open

once again. Kenny enters the house.

Gene comes out of the kitchen fast, his hands covered with

pink paint.

Gene grabs hold of Kenny and starts to push him out the door.

Kenny rabbit punches Gene in the nose with lightning speed -

his fist like a sledgehammer. Gene goes down. Lorraine

shrieks and leaps on Kenny. Her long fingernails going for

his eyes. Kenny slaps Lorraine hard. The shriek stops

instantly and she falls out cold on the carpet. Gene is back

up and going for Kenny. Kenny gets three punches in on Gene's

head before Gene hits the ground unconscious. Kenny rubs some

pink paint off his hands and tries to get a pink stain off

his jacket. He begins walking around the house calling out

for Adam. He sees nothing and hears nothing. He goes back to

the front door and sees Adam's golf clubs sitting there.

Kenny begins snapping the shaft of each club. As he snaps

each club we see Lorraine and Gene remain out cold on the

floor.

And in the kitchen we see that the tap is on and the sink

water is now overflowing from the sink and jewelry box -

spilling out onto the kitchen floor. Finishing his work with

the vintage golf clubs - Kenny leaves.

EXT. - ADAM'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Kenny jumps into the front seat of the limo. Vincenzo and

Luigi nod to the driver and they take off.

Taka hoes some weeds beneath a Jacaranda.

L.A. AERIAL SHOT HIGH ANGLE - NIGHT

Night descends on Los Angeles. Millions of lights down below

twinkle like stars.

EXT. 1612 HAVENHURST - NIGHT

We see the courtyard at night. Some of the apartment windows

have dim, warm lights. Most all is in darkness. The only

sound is the water flowing in the fountain with muted distant

traffic. Far away a siren wails softly.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Betty and Rita are on their hands and knees around the coffee

table. A map of L.A. is unfolded and Betty is running her

finger along a street. Her finger stops.

EXT. COURTYARD - SIMULTANEOUS

An older, beautiful woman - drunk, is walking slowly -

strangely toward the door of Aunt Ruth's apartment.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SIMULTANEOUS

EXT. 1612 HAVENHURST COURTYARD - NIGHT

The woman moves up to the door we see her face. Her eyes have

the eerie look of one possessed. She knocks mechanically on

the door.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT

Betty and Rita both turn with alarm. Betty gets up, stares

at the door, then at Rita. Rita waits, not knowing what to

do.

Betty opens the door. Betty finds the face of the actress,

LOUISE BONNER, staring questioningly at her.

Louise turns and sees Coco approaching across the courtyard.

Coco comes up and grabs hold of Louise. She turns over to

Betty.

Coco takes Louise back through the darkness of the courtyard.

Betty closes the door and turns.

She catches Rita's look. Rita is staring at her, horrified.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - NIGHT

Establish

INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE ROOM 214

A Hotel Manager is walking toward the door of room 214. He

knocks softly on the door. The door opens and Adam Kesher is

standing there - still beaten looking with remnants of pink

paint.

The Hotel Manager turns to leave and Adam closes the door.

INT. ROOM  214 - NIGHT

Adam crosses the room to the phone and dials a number. The

phone is answered.

Adam hangs up and seems to sag, cupping his forehead and eyes

with his hand.

EXT. BEACHWOOD CANYON - NIGHT

Adam, in his Porsche, makes his way up the canyon.

INT. PORSCHE

Adam feeling like a fool drives up the dark, winding canyon

road. As he nears the top of the canyon the residential area

gives way to desert brush. The road winds steeply up to a

dark dead end where an old barn and stable sit. Adam parks in

a little dirt lot and walk up past the barn to the corral.

His eyes grow accustomed to the dark and he.looks about. No

one is around. There's only a light wind and a few twinkling

stars in the sky above. Suddenly some bare bulbs hanging from

the corral gate flare up. Adam hears a noise in the

brightness and turns. There walking toward him into the light

is the Cowboy - dressed in clean blue denim jeans, well-oiled

unscuffed, beautifully engraved cowboy boots, a red

embroidered ivory buttoned cowboy shirt complete with string

tie. Atop the Cowboy's head is a 10 X white Stetson. The

Cowboy is smiling warmly as he approaches. He stops in front

of Adam and begins to speak with a true, slow Western drawl.

Adam suddenly looks stunned, unsure.

The Cowboy turns and walks until he is engulfed in darkness.

Through the darkness Adam hears the sound of a car door

opening and closing, then another opening and closing and

then the sound of the car driving away. Adam walks up in the

direction the Cowboy took, but he sees no sign of a car nor

any dust nor any road. He goes back down past the barn and

stables to his car. There standing by his Porsche is the

Cowboy.

Adam gets in his car and drives off leaving the Cowboy

smiling behind him.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD - MORNING

We see the rays of the rising sun falling on the huge letters

of the HOLLYWOOD SIGN and the hills surrounding it.

INT.  AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT. - MORNING

We see Rita's face as we hear Betty off screen.

We see Betty.

Moving back we realize that the girls are acting out Betty's

audition scene. Rita is reading her lines.

Betty pulls a table knife out from behind her back.

Betty mimes with moving fingers tears flowing from her eyes.

Betty drops the kitchen knife and both girls start laughing.

really

Betty mimes tapping a cigarette in a cigarette holder ala

Dietrich.

INT. COCO'S APARTMENT - DAY

On the move Coco is just bringing her cigarette in its holder

up to her painted red lips. The phone is ringing and she's

crossing the room to answer it.

Coco puts down the receiver with a long sigh.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - DAY

Betty and Rita are sitting on the leather couch having some

coffee. The front door to the apartment is open and sunlight

is pouring in through the screen door. Betty looks at her

watch.

Rita just looks at her. Betty starts for the kitchen.

Betty goes into the kitchen. Suddenly there's a knock on the

screen door and Coco peers in, seeing Rita on the couch.

Rita looks up ... panicked.

Betty comes out from the kitchen and sees the situation.

Betty walks past Rita, pats her on the shoulder and goes

outside to see Coco who has moved away to wait.

EXT. COURTYARD 1612 HAVENHURST - DAY

The screen door slams. Coco and Betty face each other close,

out of earshot of Rita.

Betty lifts her eyes to Coco's. Direct, clear.

Coco looks hard into Betty's innocent face.

Betty puts her hand on Coco's shoulder and gives her a

squeeze.

Coco turns and walks away. Betty studies her and thinks

about what she said before turning and going back inside.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - SAME

Betty enters through the screen door. Rita studies her.

On her way to the kitchen she checks her watch.

INT. HOLLYWOOD POLICE STATION - DAY

Detective Neal Domgaard throws two wallets down on the desk

in front of Detective Harry McKnight. Harry pauses in the

middle of a large bite of grilled cheese sandwich with bacon

and tomato. He looks down and studies the wallets.

EXT. -  COURTYARD 1612 HAVENHURST - DAY

Betty is coming out of Aunt Ruth's apartment. She calls

back in to Rita.

Betty closes the door and heads across the courtyard. She

knocks on Coco's door and in a moment Coco answers.

Betty takes off through the iron gates and Coco smiles as she

watches her go.

INT. CAB - DAY

Betty is wide-eyed and filled with awe at something she is

seeing.

EXT. - PARAMOUNT STUDIOS - MAIN ENTRANCE GATE - DAY

The cab pulls up to the gate. Betty pays the driver and gets

out. She-stands for a moment staring at a dream.

She walks through the gate and as she goes is stopped by a

PARAMOUNT GUARD.

Betty stops and turns.

INT.   EXECUTIVE BUILDING - SECOND FLOOR - DAY

Betty finishes climbing some stairs and crosses to the

receptionist. She hands over her pass. The receptionist

looks at it, hands it back to Betty and points down the hall

to her left.

Betty walks down the long corridor past several offices. The

door to office 43 is open when she arrives and she enters a

large sitting room with a receptionist at a desk off to one

side.

The receptionist stands, walks to a door, knocks twice, then

enters.

She closes the door behind her and Betty is alone in the

sitting room. She sits on a couch and looks at the old

movie posters covering all four walls.

In a moment the same door opens again and an elderly,

distinguished looking gentleman WALLY BROWN comes out

smiling. Betty stands up immediately.

As they walk into Wally's office...

Inside Wally's office several people rise out of chairs when

Wally enters with Betty.

She and Betty shake hands.

Nicki, a very stylish, thin girl with black cat-eyed glasses

nods coolly to Betty.

Betty nervously smiles to the room.

Betty's hands are beginning to sweat.

Betty stops on her way across to Jimmy and looks to Bob the

director.

Betty doesn't know what to say. She catches Sarah's

assistant, Nicki, rolling her eyes.

Betty continues walking toward Jimmy who opens his arms to

her as she approaches. He's old enough to be her father.

Betty looks from Jimmy to Bob.

Jimmy turns to Betty.

Jimmy reaches out and puts his arm around Betty and brings

her in against his pot belly.

Jimmy smiles as he brings Betty a little closer. She is

trying to concentrate through the nervousness and Jimmy's

breath. There is a silence as Jimmy looks her in the eyes.

Everyone in the room is looking Betty in the eyes.

Betty and Jimmy start the scene. It is very difficult for

Betty as Jimmy has her in an absurd clench now.

Jimmy plays this with a big lecherous smile. He gives the

last part of the line across her cheek up to her ear.

Betty uses the anger of this line to push herself away from

Jimmy. Jimmy reaches out and grabs her wrist.

Betty pulls her hand away and stands her ground.

Jimmy smiles broadly and moves again toward Betty.

Betty pushes him back.

He grabs Betty by the wrist again and pulls her in to him.

He puts his hand on her waist and it accidently slips and

keeps going down her hips. He jerks his hand back. Betty

looks down and sees Jimmy's hand hovering above her thigh.

Betty takes her hand and gently presses down on Jimmy's hand.

She slowly looks up with the most seductive smile. Jimmy

lets his hand rest more firmly on her thigh, and squeezes her

thigh as he sees her smile. With his other hand Jimmy gently

pulls her closer. Something has started coming over Betty

and she catches the drift of this scene in a different way.

She's surprising herself.

Jimmy now surprises himself. He becomes almost tender and

genuinely worked up from the heat coming off Betty.

Where the scene should turn to anger from Betty it can't now

and Betty plays it as she feels it. She stays in very close

to Jimmy - looking him right in the eyes.

Jimmy gets lost. He doesn't know where he is anymore. He

can only see Betty's eyes.

Betty still playing it in a dreamy whisper... lost in heat.

As scripted Betty pretends to pull the knife from behind her

back, but wraps the knife around behind Jimmy and pulls him

into a kiss.

Jimmy panics and pushes Betty away with his hands on her

shoulders as if forcing himself to come out of a trance. He

finally is able to say his line.

As scripted Betty is supposed to cry now and it is very easy

for her to do this because she's ashamed at how the sex of

the scene took her over. Tears begin running down her

cheeks. She backs away.

She pretends to drop the knife. The scene ends.

Everyone in the room has become mesmerized by Betty, but they

soon drift back to reality and begin applauding the

performance. Sarah turns to Nicki.

Betty wipes her eyes and turns smiling - still shocked at

herself.

Betty doesn't quite know what to do. She moves to the center

of the room and just stands. Remnants of the scene still

staying with her.

Sarah stands and Nicki stands just after.

Sarah takes Betty's hand and they go to the door. Betty turns

back once more and smiles.

Everyone nods and waves and Betty is taken out by Sarah and

Nicki.

INT.- CORRIDOR EXECUTIVE BUILDING - DAY

The three of them walk down the corridor.

Betty's head spins to Sarah. A look of shock and let down on

her face.

Betty finds herself getting a little upset.

Betty does another shocked head turn.

At the word 'kill' Betty turns to her once again with a

questioning look.

INT. - RECORDING STUDIO - DAY

We see what looks like a recording studio right out of the

1960's. We're looking through a plate of glass. A blonde

girl is standing at a vintage microphone. Behind her are

three back-up male vocalists dressed in three tone, shiny

60's suits. We hear strings soar up and the blonde girl

begins to sing SIXTEEN REASONS by Connie Stevens. The male

vocalists backing her up flawlessly.

We move back and realize we are on a movie set inside a sound

stage. A screen test is being shot of the girl and as we

continue moving back we see the director Adam Kesher

surrounded by his crew. Behind them there are many people

standing, eating, watching, working. The stage is full and

bustling. The song plays loudly over. Sarah and Nicki bring

Betty into this scene through a giant stage door. A guard

mimes for them to be quiet as they approach the set. The

song continues to play over.

As Sarah leads Betty up close Adam turns and his eyes fall on

the beautiful face of Betty Elms. Sensing something Betty

turns and sees Adam. They each seem to feel the thrill of

the thunderbolt, but each embarrassed to stare longer than

they already have turn back and watch the girl finish the

song.

He gets out of his chair and walks into the set - up to the

blonde girl. He shakes her hand.

Adam turns and goes back out of the set onto the stage floor.

He looks around. He sees Betty being introduced by Sarah to

some of the studio executives. He goes over to his Assistant

Director and looks down at the man's notepad.

Adam wonders - worries.

Hank speaks into his walkie-talkie headset. The sound of his

voice can be heard in several locations throughout the stage.

Adam looks up - a beautiful blonde steps into the set in

front of the microphone. IT IS THE GIRL! The back-up

singers step in behind her.

Adam nods to Hank.

The cameraman calls out, "Speed".

Countdown before the music begins.

The strings soar up and Camilla Rhodes begins to sing.

On the set Betty hears the song again and turns and watches.

Once again her eyes find Adam as his eyes are finding hers.

This time Adam turns away. He watches Camilla for a moment.

She is passable, but not spectacular. Adam reaches out and

pulls Hank over to him.

Adam pauses.

Hank gets on his walkie-talkie.

Adam continues to watch Camilla Rhodes sing. JASON GOLDWYN,

a tall sixty year old silver-haired man, comes through the

crowd and stops at Adam's side. He looks down at Adam, but

Adam continues watching Camilla Rhodes. Jason follows Adam's

gaze and he watches Camilla sing then turns back to Adam.

Adam slowly looks up right into Jason's eyes - wondering how

much Jason knows, but Jason's face doesn't give away a thing.

At that moment Ray, having overheard, comes to Jason's side.

He smiles at Adam.

Adam is sick with himself.

Across the room Betty panics when she looks at her watch.

She quickly shakes Sarah's and Nicki's hands saying, "I'm

sorry, I'm sorry" and runs off like Cinderella.

Adam turns and sees her running off out of his world.

Chris Isaak's song "Except The New Girl" segues in over

Connie Stevens and plays as Adam, Sarah and Nicki watch Betty

disappear out the sound stage door.

EXT.  1612 HAVENHURST - STREET - DAY

Chris Isaak song "Except The New Girl" continues.

An idling cab sits waiting with back door open.

COURTYARD - 1612 HAVENHURST DAY

Chris Isaak song segues to the sounds of a blues saxophone.

Betty and Rita come out of Aunt Ruth's apartment. Betty is

laughing, pulling on Rita.

Across the courtyard CORNELL DUMONT, a strikingly handsome

young black musician, is on his balcony playing the

saxophone. He stops playing when he sees the girls. He

stands and looks as if recognizing someone.

Betty and Rita stop and look up, shielding their eyes from

the sun.

Rita nods ... biting her lip. Cornell smiles and picks up his

sax.

He begins to blow some sweet jazz that flows smooth as syrup.

Rita hurriedly starts for the gate.

Betty follows Rita through the gate to the waiting cab. They

get in and the cab pulls away.

INT. CAB - DAY

Betty reaches and gently grabs Rita's shoulder. She speaks

firmly but quietly so the cab driver won't hear.

Rita thinks about this silently then begins to worry and

doubt all over again.

INT. CAB - LATER

Betty holds the slip of paper with the address in her hand.

She turns back and forth watching the buildings on both sides

of the street.

Rita watches out of the window pensively as the cab moves up

Sierra Bonita. They near a modern apartment compound of

bungalows and duplexes almost hidden in the trees and

vegetation. A smooth stucco wall surrounds the complex.

Rita shakes her head..no. Rita is looking at a black car

parked down the street facing 2590. She discerns two men

sitting in the front.

EXT. SIERRA BONITA APARTMENT - BACK ALLEY - DAY

Betty gets Rita out of the cab and pays the driver, who then

drives away. The girls go through a rear gate and enter the

complex walking along a curving concrete walk. This leads

them to an intersection where a registry is printed on a

rough hewn wooden plaque. They scan the list.

They both look around the various doors near them. Betty

spots a sign which says, behind an arrow, bungalows #10

through #20.

They set off down another sidewalk toward Bungalow #12. As

they near it and actually can see it just ahead they pass a

chainlink service gate to the alley. Standing in the alley is

a man in a dark suit wearing sunglasses.

Both girls dive for the bushes.

The man in the black suit turns reacting to the noise and

motion. Both girls are trying to catch their breath and stay

as still and quiet as possible.

Peering through the bushes they see the man still looking in

their direction. Suddenly he turns and smiles at something

to his left.

He hurries off, but soon returns carrying two heavy

suitcases, followed by an older woman in a yellow dress.

Both Betty and Rita crawl further forward. They see the limo

and realize that the man they were afraid of is an ordinary

limousine driver just going about his work. The girls stand

up, relieved and a little embarrassed.

They go up to Bungalow #12 and stand for a moment facing the

front door.

Betty doesn't listen to Rita. She knocks strongly on the

door. They stand waiting. There's no answer so Betty knocks

again harder. They wait.

Suddenly the door opens. An attractive MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN

stands before them.

The woman seems to be looking now at Rita.

Betty and Rita start to leave.

The phone rings from inside her bungalow.

The woman hurries back inside and closes the door. Betty and

Rita quickly move up the walkway toward Bungalow #17.

Rita, still fighting her fear doesn't answer.

They reach Bungalow #17. It's set back beneath tall bushes

and an old Eucalyptus tree. The front door is in deep shadow.

Without even looking at Rita Betty knocks quickly. There's no

answer. She knocks again.

The girls drift off to the side of the bungalow. Betty tries

to see in the windows. She tries a window and to her surprise

it opens.

Betty jumps up and catches her knees on the siding, her head

through the open window.

Rita reluctantly pushes and Betty is in. As she closes the

window ...

Rita walks around to the front door and gets there just as

Betty opens it. Betty has her hand over her mouth and nose.

Rita is compelled to go in and as the door clicks shut she

reacts to the smell.

INT. - BUNGALOW #17 - DAY

Betty begins to go through the bungalow and Rita follows.

All the blinds are closed and the curtains drawn. They move

slowly, looking around at everything as they go. Betty looks

to Rita to see if any of this is something she remembers.

Rita looks as though she's walking in a trance. Through the

half light they move deeper into the bungalow to a corridor.

EXT. SIERRA BONITA APARTMENTS - BUNGALOW #12 - DAY

The Middle-Aged Woman is just shutting the door to her

bungalow. She walks quickly in the direction of Bungalow

#17.

INT. - BUNGALOW #17 - DAY

Betty and Rita are moving down the corridor. They pass a

small room and look in at a couch, wardrobe and make-up

table. They move on down the corridor to a door which is

almost closed. Betty touches the door and it seems to swing

open on its own. They enter the room and stop cold. A scream

starts to build inside Rita. Before them is a dead woman

lying on a bed. Great chunks of mattress are standing upright

having been ripped and torn by shotgun blasts. A dried sea of

blood surrounds the bloated, gray body of the woman. The

scream comes out of Rita as a force propelling her to look

closer. Betty lunges after Rita, her eyes also not able to

leave the sight. She covers Rita's mouth with her hand and

brings her close. The scream is stifled by Betty's hand.

In the silence that follows, knocking can be heard. Betty

freezes and keeps Rita quiet with her hand still placed over

her mouth, but she can't stop Rita's violent shaking nor the

horror in her eyes.

EXT. BUNGALOW #17 - DAY

The Middle-Aged Woman backs away from the front door, looking

around at bungalow #17. She's not sure if she has heard

something or not. She wonders, then turns and goes back to

her bungalow.

Just as she has disappeared the door to Bungalow #17 flies

open and Rita, followed closely behind by Betty, runs with a

look of horror directly toward us until her tortured face

fills the screen.

Sounds, churning music.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - DAY

Sounds, music churning continues.

Great sobs, almost hysterical, wrack Rita's body as she bends

over the sink, scissoring into her long, dark hair with a

frenzy. There is a loud sound of the scissors cutting deep

through many strands of hair. Betty's is rushing to her -

her hands reach tenderly, but firmly for Rita's hand holding

the scissors. She keeps her from cutting and moves closer,

whispering in Rita's ear. Rita can't stop crying, but lets

Betty hold her. Music changes ...

Rita turns and looks up at Betty, her eyes red with crying.

Betty pulls her up facing her. Rita lets Betty take the

scissors. They look into each other's eyes. Betty gently

strokes Rita's cheek, wiping away some tears.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - LATER - DAY

Panning slowly across we see on the bathroom counter various

open bottles, used Q-tips, towels, combs, a brush, a bowl,

and lots of long strands of cut black hair. We continue

moving up to an empty mirror and eerie music builds. The

reflection of the new Rita moves into the mirror. She has

short, beautiful blonde hair, blonde eyebrows and no make-up.

Betty's reflection comes in beside Rita's. They stare at the

new Rita in the mirror.

EXT. COURTYARD 1612 HAVENHURST - LATE EVENING - ALMOST

DARK

We move off the door of Aunt Ruth's apartment and crane

slowly up to the apartment above hers - WILKINS - the one

with the wayward dog. We move closer to Wilkins' apartment

and as we move in we hear a phone ringing.

INT. WILKINS' APARTMENT - A MOMENT LATER

Wilkins still in his pajamas, bathrobe and slippers from

morning slouches in an enormous stuffed chair and matching

ottoman, surrounded by piles of papers and coffee cups. His

Jack Russell Terrier wakes and stands at the sound of the

phone ringing on a side table next to Wilkins. Wilkins comes

out of a deep thought and picks up the receiver as he runs

his hand through strange, matted tufts of dirty blonde hair.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Rita has just taken the hatbox from the closet shelf and is

setting it on the bed.

Betty is sitting on the bed opposite. Rita opens the hatbox

and removes her purse. She opens the purse and takes out the

money. She sits down on the bed and while staring at the

money she thinks of what to say.

Betty moves across the bed to the side of Rita. She puts her

arm around Rita and holds her.

EXT.  COURTYARD -  NIGHT

The girls come out the front door ... Betty leading and pulling

a much happier Rita along with her. They half run across the

courtyard to stone steps under an Ivy covered eave.

EXT. ROOF GARDEN - NIGHT

The girls race up the stone steps toward us. Soon their wind-

blown, smiling faces fill the screen as they look out. There

before them are the lights of Hollywood with silhouetted

palms, slow-moving theater kleig lights, and floating above

it all the giant sign in the hills reading HOLLYWOOD.

A pause.

They look out, maybe waiting for an answer blowing in the

Santa Ana wind.

INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - A MOMENT LATER

We move in to the pile of money next to Rita's purse. Past

that we move down inside Rita's purse. We see the Blue Key

and move closer to it until it fills the screen.

EXT. DENNY'S RESTAURANT - HOLLYWOOD - NIGHT

We drift along the red bricks past the payphone, along the

wall until we come to the corner. Slowly we round the corner

and move to a dark alley. There amongst the dumpsters and

trash cans is the dark silhouette of a figure. We move closer

to the figure. It is the bum and the bum sits. We move

closer and the bum's face fills the screen. It's face is

black with fungus. It's eyes turn and they seem to be red.

