<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

PET SEMATARY II

Based upon characters created by Stephen King

THIRD DRAFT

Revised 1/6/91

"PET SEMATARY II"

FADE IN:

INT.  LEMARCHE CASTLE, TOMB - NIGHT (1865)

A storm is raging outside. We hear the clap and roll of THUNDER.

TOMB STAIRWAY -

RATS scurry away down the scum-covered steps as the GLOW OF A

LANTERN and FOOTSTEPS herald someone's arrival...

GENVIEVE LEMARCHE

emerges around the bend. Mid-30s. Cultured beauty. Her dress and

face are smeared with grime and... is that blood we see too? God

only knows what's happened to her.

Genvieve ducks under a monstrous cobweb as she passes an open

window.

WINDOW

LIGHTNING streaks across the night sky outside. We catch a glimpse

of the MOON disappearing behind the clouds.

Genvieve reaches the bottom of the stairs. The tomb itself.

Water trickles in through cracks in the lichen-covered walls,

pooling on the tomb floor.

Genvieve moves forward, her lantern throwing distorted shadows

over everything...

In front of her is Anton LeMarche's stone sarcophagus.

Genvieve kneels in the water, one hand resting on the spiked iron

railing which surrounds the tomb. She reaches the other hand

towards a scum-covered plaque, brushing the grime away...

THUNDER and LIGHTNING reach a crescendo as...

A SKELETAL HAND rises out of the water, reaching for her.

Genvieve SCREAMS. The lantern falls from her grasp, sputtering

out. The hand reaches for her arm and inadvertently clutches her

breast instead...

Genvieve starts to laugh hysterically.

Suddenly it is lighter. Genvieve can't stop laughing. The groping

monster hand disappears back beneath the water.

WE PULL BACK, REVEALING -

It's not 1865. The LeMarche Castle tomb is in fact, a 90s movie

set. We are inside a soundstage, on a raised set, so the slugline

should really read...

INT.  SOUNDSTAGE, LEMARCHE CASTLE TOMB SET -

A FILM CREW scurries about. Everyone is LAUGHING now. The DIRECTOR

sits to the right. He and the DP are already huddled over the

video-assist monitor. We see the previous scene rewinding at high-

speed.

The FIRST A.D. moves in.

Crewmembers move towards the set.

An SFX PUPPETEER (i.e., the skeletal arm) crawls out from under,

followed by an ELECTRICIAN.

GENVIEVE/THE ACTRESS

rises out of the water. Her name is actually RENEE HALLOW and her

beauty is undeniable, even in such a disheveled state.

The crew members LAUGH. She's well-liked on the set. Renee grins.

Wardrobe and make-up personnel move in to adjust Renee's

appearance.

The MAKE-UP GIRL pulls a pack of cigarettes from her fanny-pack

and offers Renee one. In a flash, a P.A. appears with a lighter.

Renee mumbles "thanks" as she fires up. She squints her eyes,

trying to see past the set lights.

GEOFF MATTHEWS, Renee's 12 year-old son steps into view. Renee's

face lights up when she sees him.

Renee grimaces as the make-up girl spritzes her face with a spray-

bottle.

Her voice trails off.

Renee and Geoff are interrupted by a CREWMEMBER who's spraying

"atmosphere" about the set with a hand-held smoke machine. Renee

coughs.

Off-set, the FIRST A.D. is trying to get the show on the road.

Renee kisses Geoff on the forehead. He takes the cigarette from

her and moves off the set, standing near the camera.

The director turns back toward Renee.

Renee turns and heads back toward the stairs. A P.A. hands her a

new lantern. As she reaches the stairs, the house lights dim,

creating the proper atmosphere once again.

UNDER THE SET -

The puppeteer gets ready. It's cramped. The electrician checks a

power box connection.

The director nods to the camera operator.

The slate comes down.

The scene replays itself as before, only now we're watching the

action from multiple viewpoints.

We start on the video assist monitor, then move up to...

GEOFF

He grins as he watches the scene unfold.

ON THE SET

Renee has reached the sarcophagus. LIGHTNING flashes. The skeleton

hand bursts up, grabbing Renee's arm. The scene continues past the

original point of interruption.

UNDER THE SET -

We see an undetected LEAK. Water drips down. The puppeteer shifts

position, struggling, and...

...knocks over the power box which SPARKS just as...

ABOVE -

Renee/Genvieve grabs the iron railing with both hands.

Electricity surges through Renee. Her body jerks and writhes like

some nightmarish marionette.

UNDER THE SET -

The electrician drags the puppeteer back. Sparks fly.

ABOVE -

Crewmembers SCREAM and scramble back...

All the circuits are blowing, lights EXPLODING and showering

sparks over the whole set. This is not part of the movie.

RENEE

It's awful. She shakes, her SMOKING HANDS frozen to the iron

railing by the electricity running through her...

Suddenly, Renee falls forward against the iron. Her face begins to

SMOKE AND SINGE...

The lights CONTINUE TO BLOW, casting a strobic effect over the

soundstage, adding to the chaos.

ON GEOFF

As he witnesses the whole event. He tries to rush forward, but

someone restrains him...

Suddenly all the circuits in the stage are blown and the LIGHTS GO

OUT. Renee slumps back into the water, smoke trailing up from her

still form. And we...

OMITTED (SCENES 2 THRU 2J)

INT.  OPERATING ROOM - DAY

An aged GOLDEN RETRIEVER is on the surgical table. CHASE MATTHEWS,

D.V.M., gently strokes the dog's fur. He's good with the dog. He's

kind. The retriever's owners: a MOTHER and her SON, look on.

Chase looks at the mother. He's always hated this part.

Chase breaks concentration, pulling his eyes away from the mother

and son.

INT.  SOUNDSTAGE, LEMARCHE CASTLE TOMB SET -

A blur of activity converges on the movie set. A TRIO OF

PARAMEDICS. A FIRE OFFICIAL. A POLICE OFFICER. Medical equipment.

Horrified crewmembers watch on, helpless.

WE STAY ON Geoff, momentarily blocked out and then revealed again

and again, amidst the commotion of paramedics scrambling to save

Renee. The director has his hand on Geoff's shoulder.

Geoff's eyes dart about, taking it all in. Things are happening

very fast:

--Renee's hand is lifted. Someone checking her pulse. --Her

eyelids parted. A pen light flashing at her fixed pupils.

--An I.V. needle plunges into the inside of Renee's elbow. --A

syringe injects into the I.V. post.

--Hands hook up a life-pack monitor. Renee's dress is torn away.

Electrodes press to bare skin. --The monitor screen blinks to

life.

--Another PARAMEDIC dials out on a cellular phone, to the

consulting physician.

--A clear tube is inserted down her throat. --The monitor shows

erratic heartbeat.

--There's a renewed urgency even amidst their rush.

--Defibrillator paddles are pressed to her chest.

Geoff looks to the monitor as...

--It goes to flatline.

Geoff moves forward, pulling away from the director. The police

officer moves in and intercepts Geoff, turning the boy away.

Geoff's eyes fix on the monitor. An unbending flatline...

Chase rushes onto the set, pushing past crewmembers. He freezes at

the sight of the horrific commotion around Renee's still form.

Chase's gaze connects with his son.

We pull back from Geoff, Chase, and the commotion around Renee.

Farther and farther as the darkness around the set begins to close

in...

Darkness everywhere and we

5    OMITTED

THRU

9G   OMITTED

EXT.  A DREAMLIKE FOG

A form drifts forward, materializing out of the fog.

It's a CASKET. Appearing as if it's floating among the clouds.

PULLING BACK, WE SEE that it's moving along A CONVEYOR. AND NOW,

WE CAN make out the faint form of A PLANE as the conveyor descends

from the cargo compartment.

The casket reaches the end of the conveyor. A tag marks its final

destination: Bangor, Maine. HANDS reach in and lift the casket.

FOUR BAGGAGE HANDLERS hoist the casket up onto their shoulders and

carry it off.

The baggage handlers laugh as they walk off into the distance. The

fog closes around them and we...

EXT.  PLEASANTVILLE CEMETERY - DAY

We drift down from the gray sky to the somber scene below. Off in

the distance, a crowd of MOURNERS are gathered around a grave.

CLOSER -

THE HEADSTONE is adorned with an iron plaque. It reads, simply:

THE CASKET is slowly lowered into the open grave. As it descends,

WE SEE Geoff and his father, Chase, standing at the forefront of

the crowd. Renee's grave is next to those of her parents.

Among the mourners is MARJORIE HARGROVE, an attractive local girl

in her early twenties.

Further down the hillside, a wall of NEWS REPORTERS are gathered

behind a roped-off media boundary. There is a blinding flurry of

PHOTO FLASHES as the press records the scene before them.

A SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT PATROL CAR cruises up the cemetery drive,

pulling to a stop near the mob of reporters.

Out of the car steps GUS GILBERT. Gus is nearly forty, with a

Sheriff's uniform fitted to his solid, ageless frame. Gruff, maybe

a little self-important: Gus likes being a big fish in a small

pond.

A REPORTER ducks under the media boundary, moving in for a closer

shot.

He doesn't make it two steps before he's intercepted by Gus. Gus

grabs the reporter and shoves him back.

Gus means business. One look into his eyes reveals his intense, no

nonsense approach.

The reporter backs off.

BACK AT THE GRAVESIDE -

Beneath the gloomy, ominous skies, the lines on Chase's face shade

him as a decade older than his thirty-five years. Chase gently

places a comforting hand on Geoff's shoulder.

Geoff inches forward, pulling free of Chase's touch. Drawn to his

mother, drawn from his father. The only blemishes on his youthful,

rosy cheeks are the tears, the endless tears.

Geoff looks upon the casket, gazing into the abyss of despair.

FOLLOWING THE CEREMONY

The crowd has dispersed.

Geoff is standing at the base of Renee's grave. His eyes fixed.

Unmoving. Unaccepting.

Chase is nearby, watching, not wanting to intrude on Geoff's

private moment.

Gus quietly moves in at Chase's side.

Gus glances at Geoff.

Gus nods. Now his eyes fall on Renee's headstone.

Chase forces a smile.

The sky above seems heavy with imminent rain and we...

12    OMITTED

THRU

15    OMITTED

EXT.  HOUSE - DAY

Lazy oaks embrace a vintage, two-story Victorian home in the rural

neighborhood of Ludlow, Maine. A commercial MOVING VAN is parked

out front.

Marjorie, the girl we saw at Renee's funeral, is coming down the

sidewalk. She checks the address on the front of the house, then

heads up the driveway.

INT.  DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY

Moving boxes clutter the downstairs.

Chase is weaving through the maze, doing an inventory on the

boxes.

A sweaty PAIR OF MOVERS are climbing up the stairs. Each is

hunched  over, with a garment box balanced on his back. The side

of each carton is boldly labeled: RENEE - ATTIC.

Chase is contemplating a compromise when Geoff appears from the

kitchen doorway.

Geoff shakes his head, firm and deliberate denial.

Chase weakens, giving in.

Marjorie KNOCKS on the open frame of the front door.

Geoff recognizes her from his mother's funeral. She flashes him a

warm smile.

Marjorie has a naive, friendly quality about her. She's also

blessed with eye-popping genetics. Standing there outside the

door, looking more than a little nervous... we can't help but like

her. Needless to say, she doesn't look like your typical

housekeeper.

Marjorie enters. She grins at Geoff again. Yep. She's nervous

alright.

Marjorie passes her curious eyes over one of Renee's garment

containers.

Chase smiles. Marjorie's enthusiasm is endearing.

Just then, one of the movers loses his grip. A garment box bounces

down the slope of the stairs. When it reaches the bottom, dresses

spill over the floor.

Marjorie moves for the spill. The first dress she touches is a

beaded peach evening gown. Her fingers linger on the fabric.

Geoff moves forward, acting overly defensive.

Marjorie is taken aback by the oddity of Geoff's statement.

Chase catches her eye, shrugging apologetically.

17    OMITTED

THRU

19    OMITTED

EXT.  DRIVEWAY - DAY

A VAN is parked outside. The rear side panel is masked off with

tape and a stencil. Chase grabs the corner of the tape and

carefully peels it back, revealing a crisp, new business logo:

EXT.  TOWN - DAY

ESTABLISHING. Shops and businesses situated around a lazy town

square. QUiet. Relaxed. As rural as they come.

WE pick up Chase's van as it cruises by.

EXT.  VETERINARY OFFICE - DAY

Chase pulls the van in front of an unassuming veterinary office.

On the door is Chase's nameplate. And on the weathered wall is an

outline of letters where the name and title "Quentin Yolander,

Doctor of Veterinary Medicine" once was.

Geoff is first out of the van.

INT.  EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY

Geoff and Chase move inside. The offices look like they were built

in the 40s. A dark corridor stretches down the center of the

suite. Faded green walls are solid, with few exteriors. It's

creepy in here.

Heavy, grey plastic curtains absorb much of the light which does

find its way in. Nothing looks like it's been updated in the past

fifty years.

Chase sweeps a curtain aside, revealing the interior to Geoff.

Dust swirls in the air.

Geoff takes a look around, growing uncomfortable.

Geoff moves on down the central corridor which seems to grow

darker and more dismal with every step. He moves on into the

boarding room...

INT.  BOARDING AREA - DAY

Rows of kennels are stacked along the walls, smothered with

cobwebs. Ancient, rusted surgical equipment is scattered

everywhere. The place is a mess. Windows are boarded up and

shadows cloak the room.

Over to the right, Geoff hears a RUSTLING.

A CARDBOARD BOX on one of the shelves jiggles. Something is moving

around inside it.

Geoff's eyes widen. Still, morbid curiosity propels him forward.

The box rustles again. He reaches for it and...

A CREATURE LEAPS out at him, HOWLING. Geoff SCREAMS and jumps

back. The box tumbles over and...

A CAT crawls out. Behind the protective mother, are four of the

cutest kittens we've ever seen, MEWING away.

Geoff sighs just as Chase rushes into the room.

Inside the box is a note. Chase reaches for it. It reads: "And a

warm welcome to you."

One of the kittens pads out of the box and looks up at Geoff with

sleepy eyes. Her fur is striped.

Geoff lifts the fragile creature, cradling it in his arms.

Chase spies an old broom resting in the corner.

Geoff nods and Chase moves back out into the hallway.

Geoff sets the box back upright and lowers Tiger in with the other

kittens. He reaches for the broom and goes to work sweeping away

the cobwebs.

Just as soon as he turns his back, Tiger climbs the side of the

box, spilling over onto the floor.

INT.  EXAMINATION ROOM

Chase is unpacking a shipment of medical supplies. When he places

them in the cabinet, he stirs up a layer of dust.

Tiger scampers by as Chase coughs his way out of the cloud of

dust.

INT.  WAITING AREA

Tiger sees the front door ajar. And as she approaches to explore

what lies beyond--

The door swings open...

ZOWIE, A SIBERIAN HUSKY is staring back at her. He's black and

white with blue eyes, with a mask that is at once menacing and

majestic.

A pudgy thirteen year old boy, DREW, has a hold of the dog's

collar.

Zowie's BARK sends Tiger scrambling.

Drew loses his grip as Zowie yanks free. A strong, paternal

command calls after Drew from outside.

INT.  EXAMINATION ROOM

Chase spins around at the commotion as Tiger darts across the

floor with the barking dog in pursuit.

Mayhem ensues as Zowie's big paws slip on the slick tile.

Geoff rushes in from the boarding area.

Tiger ducks beneath the back of a surgical gurney.

Zowie's snoot wedges beneath the base, inches from Tiger's tiny,

striking paw.

Drew slides in on his knees, renewing his hold on Zowie's collar.

He pulls the dog back.

Geoff rescues Tiger from beneath the gurney.

Drew shrugs sheepishly.

Drew's stepfather, Gus Gilbert, enters. The dreaded, domineering

voice of authority in Drew's life. WE know him as the sheriff at

Renee's funeral.

Drew steps forward and awkwardly offers his hand to Chase. Then

Geoff. The boys shake.

Zowie lurches forward, eager to shower affection on Geoff. Geoff

strokes the dog's soft mane.

Drew puts his palm under Zowie's chin and turns him for Chase to

see. There are several scabbed-over gashes on his left cheek.

With one eye on Zowie, Chase sprays some antiseptic on the

examination table and wipes it clean.

Drew prods Zowie. Zowie jumps up onto the table. Chase looks over

the facial lacerations, then turns on a penlight and examines the

dog's eyes.

Gus passes a lingering look over Tiger. He reaches in to pet her,

making sure it meets with Geoff's approval.

Drew perks up at the thought, but Gus shoots it down.

Chase takes the light out of Zowie's eyes. He looks to Gus.

Chase turns to Drew and continues...

Drew nods, casting a glance aside at Gus.

Gus gives Chase a knowing grin.

Gus laughs and claps Chase on the shoulder.

Geoff is surprised at this. Surprised and annoyed. Tact isn't a

quality that Gus possesses in abundance.

EXT.  SCHOOL - DAY

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL KIDS are converging en masse for classes.

Chase's van pulls up front.

INT.  VAN - DAY

Chase digs some cash out of his wallet. Geoff stares out at the

school. He's dreading this.

Chase looks at his son.

Geoff reaches for the door, but Chase stops him. He's trying to

reach his son. He really is.

"MEOW!" Chase drops his eyes to the bulge squirming around in

Geoff's jacket. He can't help but smile.

Geoff opens the side panel of the van and slips out his MOUNTAIN

BIKE.

Before Chase can say another word, Geoff is gone.

EXT.  VAN - DAY

As Chase pulls away, WE SEE the handmade sign taped in the back

window:

EXT.  SCHOOL - DAY

Drew is among a small circle of BOYS. He recognizes Geoff walking

his bike from the van. The largest of the boys, CLYDE, takes

notice of the unfamiliar face.

Clyde is fifteen, going on twenty. You know the type: local bully,

held back a year or two.

Mischief gleams in Clyde's eyes as he watches Geoff's every move.

The other boys follow suit. Clyde always takes the lead.

Geoff fields their penetrating stares. For a second his eyes

connect with Clyde's, then he moves on into the building.

Among the boys, Drew is the reluctant participant.

INT.  CLASSROOM - DAY

MRS. GORDON is addressing a room of SEVENTH GRADERS.

Geoff is doodling in his notebook, feeling acutely out of place as

he tries to avoid the curious glances the rest of his new

classmates are giving him.

As Mrs. Gordon points to him, Geoff drops his face even lower.

This is the worst embarrassment a boy could ever suffer. He'd like

to throttle Mrs. Gordon.

A freckle-faced boy, DOUG, fires off a question.

A girl with braces, SUSAN, continues the interrogation.

Susan shuts up. Geoff sinks even lower in his seat.

The kids turn their eyes back to the front of the room.

But one classmate's eyes are still on Geoff. It's Clyde.

Clyde shifts his stare to the squirming lump in Geoff's jacket. He

catches a glimpse of Tiger's bobbing nose popping out.

INT.  HALLWAY - DAY

Geoff joins the stampede of kids as the BELL releases them for the

day. Almost immediately, Clyde and his cronies, STEVIE AND BRAD,

fall in step behind him. Drew hangs slightly off to the side, not

really wanting to be a part of the intimidation.

Clyde quickens his pace, pulling ahead of Geoff and stopping in

front of him. Stevie and Brad move in on either side. Surrounded

by peers, it's apparent how small Geoff is for his age.

On the wall next to them is a bulletin board display. Clyde

glances at it. Geoff follows his gaze.

DISPLAY

It's one of those corny school affairs with construction paper

letters spelling out: "WE REMEMBER RENEE HALLOW." Beneath that are

pictures of Renee clipped from various magazines. Cloyingly

tasteless.

Geoff nods. Clyde raises his eyebrows, pulling Geoff's jacket

open.

Geoff's arm tightens protectively around Tiger.

Clyde has a convincing way about him. Geoff reluctantly hands the

kitten over. Clyde is so gentle with the creature that one would

never question his sincerity.

Geoff is just beginning to feel at ease when something changes in

Clyde's tone, something sinister.

Clyde's eyes narrow. He takes a couple of steps back. Geoff's

heart starts to sink.

Clyde backsteps and bolts off down the hallway with Tiger. Brad

and Stevie fall in behind him, laughing.

Drew shrugs apologetically. He's torn, but he tears off after them

nonetheless.

Geoff runs off in pursuit of them.

EXT.  SCHOOL - DAY

Geoff rushes from the building, searching the dispersing crowd.

There they are, tearing from the bike racks, pedaling for the

street.

Clyde sees Geoff and mockingly holds the kitten out for display as

they ride by.

Geoff runs for the bike racks.

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Clyde and his cohorts break from the outskirts of town, riding out

onto the open road.

Clyde glances back toward the center of town.

Geoff is so far behind he's barely visible.

Clyde returns his eyes to the road ahead, raising Tiger nose to

nose with him.

Clyde and his smirking buddies ride on, OUT OF FRAME.

WITH GEOFF

giving the pedals all he can, struggling to keep pace with the

boys.

35    OMITTED

FURTHER ALONG

Scattered houses sprinkle the landscape ahead. Cochran Lake

stretches into the distance beyond the housing.

Clyde's clan cuts from the road and blazes a trail across a

residential property. The two-story house is weathered and boarded

up. It looks vaguely familiar. Creepy.

And when WE FIND the mailbox post, we know why. The name is faded,

but there's no question who once lived there. Five bold letters:

"CREED."

Geoff whips by in a blur, still in pursuit.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

Clyde and his friends have abandoned their bikes. They've taken

position on top of the slope of the hill, standing at the foot of

THE PATH TO THE PET SEMATARY.

38    OMITTED

EXT.  PET SEMATARY PATH - DAY

Geoff pulls his bike to a stop short of the boys. He dismounts and

leans it up against a tree.

A devilish grin creeps over Clyde. He strolls down the path toward

Geoff. Clyde grabs Geoff's handlebars and, backing up, pulls Geoff

and the bike with him.

Drew shakes his head, disgusted he has to put up with Clyde's

antics.

Clyde punches Drew in the arm. Drew shrinks back.

Geoff flashes a hateful stare at Clyde.

All of the boys but Clyde are uncomfortably silent. There's

something frightening about Clyde... something that extends beyond

the standard bully antics. We begin to get the feeling that this

kid is genuinely deranged.

He motions to the path behind him.

Drew shuts up. Clyde turns back to Geoff, drawing closer.

With this last remark Clyde has pushed too far. Geoff's face is

red with anger.

Clyde's grin falters a moment.

Clyde pokes Geoff in the shoulder.

This time Clyde shoves Geoff back even harder.

Clyde moves forward again and Geoff suddenly LASHES OUT, catching

everyone off guard.

For an instant, Drew marvels at Geoff's tenacity.

Clyde LUNGES. He hammers Geoff with blows.

Outsizing him by forty pounds, Clyde tosses Geoff to the ground.

Geoff struggles, but Clyde's grip proves arresting.

Clyde throws Geoff onto his stomach, forcing his face into the

dirt. It looks as if he's ready to smother his opponent.

Drew is the first to rush in. Brad and Stevie quickly follow. It

takes all three of them to peel Clyde off Geoff.

Clyde gets to his feet and backs away. There's great pleasure in

his crazed eyes as he watches Geoff coughing and gasping.

Satisfied he's handed out enough ill will for the day, Clyde turns

away.

Drew's attentions remain on Geoff. As Clyde strolls by, he grabs

Drew's arm and swings him around.

Stevie and Brad follow. As the group passes Geoff's bike, Clyde

gives it a kick, knocking it over. Then they're gone.

Geoff pulls himself to his feet. Brushing off the mess, he heads

up the path in search of Tiger.

EXT.  PET SEMATARY - DAY

The woods here have grown long with shadows. The air is still and

the sound of birds is conspicuously absent.

A WOODEN ARCHWAY frames the entrance to the primitive graveyard.

Scrawled across the weatherstained boards is a child's barely

legible attempt at "PET SEMATARY."

Geoff trepidatiously enters the clearing of crude, crowded graves.

Collars, leashes, bird cages and other accessories adorn the

makeshift crosses and headstones.

Geoff moves along the outer circle of markers, each crafted by a

child's caring hands.

As he searches, he can't help but notice the heartfelt epitaphs.

On the outer circle, he sees a crate-board marker memorializing:

SMUCKY THE CAT... HE WAS OBEDIANT.

MOVING INWARD, the markers are older. The ones he can still read

convey a sense of the perpetual cycle of life and death.

Here is a wide, flat, upright board planted deep in the earth: "In

Memory of MARTA our Pet Rabit Dyed March 1 1965."

The next three rows are illegible, the inscriptions are weathered

beyond recognition... And then, chiseled into sandstone: HANNAH

THE BEST DOG THAT EVER LIVED 1929-1939.

And now... "MEOW." Faint. But very much alive.

Geoff picks up his pace, weaving quickly toward the center.

There, he finds Tiger. Trapped in a rusted old birdcage, its base

swallowed by the grave.

Geoff opens the door and frees Tiger, stroking the trembling

kitten.

Geoff's eyes are drawn to the far perimeter... to the deadfall...

THE DEADFALL looms on the outskirts of the clearing like a pile of

skeletal remains. An abstract stairway to things beyond. A wind

picks up just then, sending leaves skittering in waves across the

ground.

40    OMITTED

EXT.  PET SEMATARY PATH - DAY

When Geoff turns around, he finds Drew waiting for him under the

archway. Drew smiles, full of respect for Geoff.

He grimaces at the thought.

Drew glances around at all the makeshift grave markers.

Geoff nods knowingly.

They head off, full of childhood.

INT.  KITCHEN - DUSK

Marjorie is at the stove, fixing up dinner, while Chase scans the

newspaper at the table.

Geoff enters through the kitchen door. He moves past them without

a word.

Geoff stops for a moment, turns...

...and exits through the opposite door.

Chase looks to Marjorie and offers a sympathetic shrug.

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - DUSK

CRUDE CAGES HOUSE DOZENS OF RABBITS. Situated alongside the

garage. A sign above the cages reads: PET RABBITS - $10.00. Bells

positioned along the roof threaten to reveal foul play.

Gus is rigging a wire along the base of the cage.

Finishing it off, he hangs the plug next to an outside socket.

Moving onto the next chore, he pours pressed alfalfa pellets into

feeding slots for the hungry rabbits.

Setting the feed aside, he takes a seat. Opening one of the cages,

he grabs a rabbit and sets it on his lap, gently petting its soft

fur.

One of the cages starts to vibrate.

Gus gives it a look: A PAIR OF RABBITS aren't interested in

eating, they're joined in fast and furious passion.

Gus gets a chuckle out of the sight.

Gus replaces the rabbit in the hutch. And before he goes, HE SINKS

THE PLUG INTO THE SOCKET. An ELECTRICAL CHARGE dances along the

base of the cage, a deterrent for intruders.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

Drew's mother, AMANDA, withdraws a roast from the oven.

Gus is at the sink, washing his hands. He turns to see Zowie

laying at Drew's feet in the living room. Drew is watching a MUSIC

VIDEO on TV.

Gus is waggling his thumb toward the back door.

Drew slumps in defeat.

Gus reaches into the cabinet and pours himself a Bourbon.

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Drew walks Zowie from the house with a dish of dog food. As they

pass the rabbit dens, Zowie alters his path. Drew gets a handful

of his collar and pulls him back.

Across the yard is an enclosed dog run. Twenty feet long by ten

feet wide. Drew puts Zowie inside with the dog food.

Drew strokes Zowie's mane affectionately, then backs away, closing

the wood-framed door to the dog run.

INT.  DREW'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Amanda's about to put the roast on the table when Gus nuzzles up

behind her, breathing down her backside. With his drink in hand,

he sweeps her hair aside and zeros in for a kiss on the back of

the neck.

Gus eases his free hand around between Amanda and the counter and

presses his palm firmly into her crotch, drawing her body tight to

him.

She stiffens at his intimate hold, uncomfortable with his timing.

At the back door, Drew is watching from beyond the screen,

disgusted by the sight of Gus pawing his mother. Drew swings the

door open as loud as he can to signal his return.

Gus plants a last kiss on the back of Amanda's neck and backs off.

But before he goes, he snatches a chunk of meat from the serving

platter. Leveling his leering eyes at Amanda, he stuffs it into

his mouth suggestively.

Drew rolls his eyes and takes his seat at the table, returning his

attention to the TV, where another MUSIC VIDEO is on.

Gus glances at the TV, annoyed by the MUSIC. He drops into his

spot at the head of the table, blocking Drew's view. Drew leans to

the side for a better look. Gus takes notice and leans to the same

side to obstruct his view.

Gus ignores her, inching forward with a confidential, harsh

whisper.

Drew aims the remote control at Gus, as if to shut him up, and

silences the TV.

Amanda approaches with the roast. The moment it's on the table,

Drew starts dishing up a hefty serving. Gus spears Drew's fork

with the serving fork.

Gus throws back a sip of Bourbon.

46    OMITTED

EXT.  ZOWIE'S DOG RUN - NIGHT

MOVING THROUGH Zowie's enclosed pen, WE SEE no sign of the dog.

REACHING the door, WE FIND that the wood around the bottom hinge

has been chewed through. The base of the door is ajar, just enough

for a dog to have slipped through.

EXT.  RABBIT CAGES - NIGHT

In the still of the night, Gus' rabbit pens sit unattended. And

then WE HEAR the tinkling of dog tags. Snoozing rabbits awaken as

Zowie lumbers INTO FRAME.

Zowie rises on his hind legs, pressing his paws to a cage. Blue

sparks fly as Zowie is jolted with the electrical charge.

INT.  GUS' ROOM - NIGHT

The ELECTRICAL ZING. The dog's whimpering CRY. And the RINGING OF

BELLS reach Gus in rapid succession, rousting him from his sleep.

He rolls out of bed and grabs his robe.

Amanda stirs, groggily focusing on Gus' departing figure.

INT.  DREW'S ROOM - NIGHT

Drew swings open the door to the hallway as Gus marches by,

stuffing shells into a shotgun. Panicked, Drew takes off after

him.

EXT.  RABBIT CAGES - NIGHT

Zowie swings his head in the direction of the house as Gus bursts

through the back door. Drew is one step behind.

Gus swings the gun up and fires off a SHOT.

Zowie bolts for the shadows of the hillside.

Drew rushes in and deflects the aim of the rifle.

Gus' eyes are wild with anger.

Gus throws Drew aside, brings the rifle back up and FIRES another

random shot after the fleeing dog. All the while, his eyes remain

on Drew, as if this were the boy's lesson to be learned.

He squeezes off one more SHOT...

A PAINED YELP echoes from the hillside. Zowie's yelp.

Drew whips his head aside in sickened shock. Even Gus is sobered

by the unexpected hit.

All they can hear now are Zowie's WHIMPERING CRIES diminishing in

the night.

Drew shoots Gus a look of such unbridled hatred that Gus is

speechless. He backs away from Gus and darts off toward the dark

hillside.

When Gus turns back for the house, Amanda is standing there.

Amanda glares at him, an outpouring of pent-up strain.

Gus defiantly marches past Amanda, entering the house without ever

meeting eyes with her.

EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT

Drew pauses long enough to listen for Zowie...

Nothing until a FAINT CRY drifts back at him.

DEEPER IN THE WOODS

Zowie limps INTO FRAME. Blood is flowing from the bullet wound in

his left hindquarter, trailing from his suspended leg. Every step

is a strain.

DREW

comes upon a break in the trees. The hanging moon outlines the

knoll stretching beyond. And then, the strained breathing, the

hushed WHIMPER.

Drew hesitantly approaches the crest of the knoll.

Zowie is just beyond, lying on his side at the end of the bloody

trail. His chest rises and falls almost imperceptibly with every

effort to survive.

Drew drops to his knees at Zowie's side and cradles the dog in his

lap, shaking his head in denial.

Zowie's weak eyes shift, gazing longingly at Drew.

Drew strokes the fur under Zowie's chin, hardly able to see the

dog through his glaze of tears.

Zowie's eyes drift off. His chest falls and doesn't rise again. He

falls limp in Drew's arms. Drew hugs Zowie even tighter and he

begins to weep.

FROM A DISTANCE

WE SEE the image of Drew with the dog cradled in his arms,

silhouetted against the moonlit horizon.

53    OMITTED

EXT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE - MORNING

Geoff appears from the garage with his bike and takes off for the

road. A WHISTLE catches his ear.

Drew is at the edge of the woods, beckoning for Geoff.

Geoff circles around and doubles back.

The closer Geoff gets, the more he sees of Drew's despair. Then he

sees the dried blood staining Drew's clothes.

Geoff's heart sinks. An unspoken moment of sympathy passes between

the boys. Fighting the emotions, Drew finally speaks.

There's such grief in Drew's words that Geoff can't resist. He

glances toward his house to make sure he hasn't been seen, then

blends into the woods.

EXT.  PET SEMATARY - DAY

Drew carries Zowie's relaxed form in his arms. Geoff is following,

balancing a pickaxe and shovel.

Arriving at the graveyard, Geoff searches the outer perimeter for

a vacant stretch of soil. Finding one, he lets the heavy tools

fall to the ground.

Drew heads for the base of the deadfall, with Zowie in his arms.

Drew continues up the deadfall, disappearing over the crest.

Geoff gathers up the shovel and pickaxe and follows after him.

EXT.  THE BOG - DAY

Geoff climbs over the peak of the deadfall...

Beyond is a dark swamp, A BOG, looking unlike anything one would

expect in Maine. Tendrils of ground fog swirl about vegetation

that looks almost prehistoric. Gnarled trees rise up from the

murky earth, blocking the sun from view.

Geoff hurries down the other side of the deadfall to catch up with

Drew. Somewhere off in the distance we hear an UNEARTHLY SOUND.

Not a bird. Not any animal known to man.

Spectral shapes flicker at the edge of Geoff's vision, sinking

back into the shadows as Geoff tries to focus on them.

Drew doesn't respond. He continues on without another word, hell-

bent on finding this "better place."

FURTHER ALONG - DAY

At the boundary of the bog, A STAIRWAY OF HUGE, WIDE STONES rises

from the blanket of ground fog. Bordered by fir trees. Leading up

the hillside. The final leg of Drew and Geoff's journey.

Geoff's eyes move to the stairway of stones.

Geoff feels for Drew. It's pointless to reason.

Drew starts up the stone steps. Geoff has no choice but to follow.

EXT.  MICMAC BURIAL GROUND - DAY

Even in broad daylight, the flat-topped mesa has a sense of

foreboding isolation. There's an almost palpable sense of

"wrongness" about this place. As if the darkness of a dying black

hole was seeping out of the ground and spreading across the earth.

Drew and Geoff approach the circle of rocky soil. They stand at

the border, looking it over in eerie silence.

Somewhere off in the distance we hear the unearthly SOUND again,

only this time, it's closer.

Even Drew seems to have awakened from the haze he had fallen into.

He gently sets Zowie's body on the ground.

Geoff nods and hands over the digging tools. Drew swings the

pickaxe, sinking it into the ground.

Backing away from the burial ground, Geoff takes a seat on a rock

at the border of the forest. From there, he watches.

Drew alternates the pickaxe and shovel as he clears a hole in the

rocky ground.

WE MOVE IN ON GEOFF, who's looking on with skeptical intrigue as

the rhythmic SOUND of the tools continues.

59    OMITTED

LATER -

A cairn is complete: a conical pile of rocks over Zowie's grave.

Drew is now sitting on the rock next to Geoff. Together, they

stare at the cairn as if Zowie might climb from beneath at any

moment.

Geoff shrugs, pondering such a thought.

Geoff digs into his pocket and produces a pack of gum, offering

one to Drew. With only a quick glance away from the grave, Drew

snatches a piece and he stuffs it into his mouth. Geoff does the

same.

They sit together in silence. Nervously chewing their gum.

Watching the grave.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - AFTERNOON

The sun dips over the horizon, giving way to dusk.

EXT.  MICMAC BURIAL GROUND - DUSK

Geoff's eyes shift from the grave to the darkening sky.

They rise, leaving the burial ground. En route, Drew pauses for a

last look at the grave.

Geoff follows, glancing back at the burial ground. It looks

magical in the twilight, not quite so sinister now.

EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT

Drew is walking home along the road, alone.

Headlights blind him as a car approaches. It slows and pulls a U-

turn, stopping at Drew's side. It's Gus' squad car. He pushes open

the passenger door.

Drew takes a step back, shaking his head.

Gus turns his eyes away, focusing on the dark road ahead.

After a moment, Drew approaches the car. Without another word, Gus

drives off.

64    OMITTED

EXT.  RABBIT CAGE - NIGHT

It's quiet now. And out of the silence comes the JINGLING of

Zowie's dog tags. Zowie's LONG SHADOW creeps over the cage,

distorted to monstrous proportion by the flickering light.

We move past the cages to the back porch...

We see ZOWIE'S PAW scratching at the door.

INT.  AMANDA AND GUS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Amanda wakens with a start. She rises, eyes focusing on the dark

bedroom. Gus is sound asleep next to her. Then, from outside, we

faintly hear ZOWIE'S SCRATCHING.

Slowly, Amanda rises from bed, pulling on a bathrobe as she heads

for the door.

EXT.  BACK PORCH - NIGHT

Amanda appears at the door. She unlatches it, stepping outside.

Amanda looks down and SCREAMS.

INT.  DREW'S ROOM - NIGHT

Photos of Drew with Zowie are tacked on the wall above the bed.

The one photo of Drew, Amanda and Gus has been altered with a cut-

out head of Zowie's pasted on Gus' shoulders.

WE FIND Drew below. He's fallen asleep with his Walkman on. Even

with his ears covered, the POUNDING at the door jolts him awake.

Half asleep, Drew peels off the headphones.

The anger in his mother's voice brings him off the bed. Gus'

POUNDING continues.

Drew moves to the door. The inside is secured by a double dead

bolt. Instead of unlocking them, he opens a tiny, customized

window which gives him a view of the hall.

Drew unlatches the deadbolts and steps back as Gus bursts through

the door.

Drew backs into the bed, taking a seat.

Amanda comes through the door, and behind her is...

ZOWIE

This is our first glimpse of the resurrected dog. Fur shiny and

wet, the gaping gunshot wound in his rear. Zowie's head hangs low,

his eyes GLEAMING RED. The husky is covered with dirt from head to

toe.

Drew's eyes widen in astonishment.

Zowie staggers across the room towards Drew, nails clicking on the

floorboards. Drew shrinks back in uncertain horror as the dog

moves closer.

Zowie absently throws his arms up onto the bed, across Drew's lap.

And slowly, perfunctory, his tongue licks Drew's cheek. This last

action of Zowie displaces Drew's fear. Tears well up in the boy's

eyes.

Drew lifts his hand from stroking Zowie's fur. His palm is covered

with muddy blood.

Drew gazes into the dog's vacant eyes. It truly is a wonder.

INT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Chase enters and stops in the doorway.

Geoff sits in front of the television with a pile of videotapes

next to him. He's scanning through Renee's old movies with the

remote. The sound has been turned down and the effect is a little

eerie.

ON THE SCREEN

We see RENEE move through a scene. Geoff hits the slo-mo button

and the image winds down. Renee's face. HER EYES stare out at us

from the alien universe of the past.

Geoff doesn't respond. He's captivated by Renee.

Chase moves into the room.

Geoff PAUSES the tape. Renee freezes, the image flickering ever so

slightly. For an instant, we think we see a FLASH OF Renee being

electrocuted. But it's only an instant.

Finally, Geoff tears his eyes away from the screen, resenting his

father's intrusion.

Geoff's face softens. He nods.

Chase draws closer. He takes a seat next to Geoff. The pain in his

son's eyes is almost more than he can stand.

Chase moves to reach for his son, and suddenly the phone RINGS,

shattering the moment.

Chase hesitates, but finally he rises and answers the phone.

After a moment, he returns.

Geoff's eyes widen. He looks like a ghost walked over his grave.

Chase nods and exits to get his coat.

Geoff looks back at the TV once more. The image paused.

Renee staring at us from beyond the grave.

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Gus, Amanda, Drew and Geoff are gathered around Chase's van.

EXT./INT.  CHASE'S VAN - NIGHT

Chase lays Zowie on his side on an examining table and shines an

overhead light onto the wound.

Geoff is looking in from outside, utterly bewildered by the

living, breathing dog.

Gus casts a threatening glance in Drew's direction.

Chase is too busy preparing a syringe to notice the nonverbal

exchange.

Drew tenderly strokes Zowie's mane as Chase administers the

injection. Zowie stares up at Geoff with dull, blank eyes.

Drew reads Geoff's bewilderment and joins him outside the van.

Their words are clear, but whispered.

Geoff returns his stare to Zowie.

Geoff looks into Drew's eyes and nods in understanding.

69    OMITTED

THRU

75    OMITTED

INT.  GEOFF'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Tiger is curled up at the foot of Geoff's bed. Geoff climbs in,

careful not to disturb the kitten. As he lays his head back on the

pillow...

It's a woman's VOICE. A familiar one. Now we hear the rhythmic

CREAK of a rocking chair. And with it comes the voice again,

humming a HAUNTING LULLABY.

Wide-eyed, Geoff turns his head toward the source...

A WOMAN'S NONDESCRIPT FORM is seated in the rocking chair across

the room. Rocking forward, her face passes into a swath of

moonlight...

It's Renee. With the rock of the chair, her face recedes back into

the shadows. Her soothing HUM remains.

And again, her face passes into the swath of light. And again it

retreats.

Geoff raises his hand, reaching out for her.

Renee's hand rises from the shadows, reaching for him.

But suddenly, THE ROOM BEGINS TO STRETCH.

The rocking chair and the bed seem distanced like polar extremes,

mother and son hopelessly separated by forces beyond their

control.

LIGHTNING FLASHES in the bedside window. Renee is falling farther

and farther away.

Geoff leaps from his bed as the darkness closes in and...

GEOFF

bolts up from his pillow. Awake now, face wet with perspiration.

It was a nightmare. Except, if it was a nightmare, why do we still

hear...

...the steady CREAK of the rocking chair.

Geoff slowly turns his head once again, repeating the actions of

his dreams.

In the shadows, the chair is still rocking. As it comes forward

into the moonlight, we see ZOWIE, curled up asleep on the seat of

the chair.

Tiger is not on the bed anymore. She's up on top of the bookcase

now, wide awake, eyes fixed on the dog. She HISSES.

Geoff stares at the rocking chair, petrified.

INT.  CHASE'S OFFICE - DAY

Chase strips off the bandage over Zowie's rear end. The wound is

gooey and open.

Geoff reads the concern in Chase's expression. Drew is right there

at Geoff's side, looking on.

Chase puts on his stethoscope and checks under the dog's rib-cage

for a pulse. He checks a number of places, then shakes his head,

totally confused.

Geoff and Drew share conspiratorial glances as Chase sets the

stethoscope aside and extracts a blood sample.

Chase labels the capped vial of blood "ZOWIE" and carefully places

it into a packing container. When he closes the lid, we see the

preaddressed label:

Uncomfortable with Chase's investigation, Geoff reaches for Zowie.

78A   OMITTED

INT.  BOARDING AREA - DUSK

THE KITTENS ARE HISSING, shrinking to the back of their kennel.

Zowie stands motionless before their cage, gazing in at them.

Geoff and Drew are nearby, putting the finishing touches on the

bedding inside a larger boarding kennel.

One of the kittens SPATS fearfully at Zowie. Geoff turns to stare

at Zowie.

Drew lifts Zowie into the kennel. Geoff secures the door,

something that clearly must be done from the outside.

Zowie immediately begins to pace back and forth inside the cage.

He turns towards us and we...

EXT.  TOWN, CHASE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

A SNARLING WEREWOLF rushing at us.

Chase jumps back, frightened out of his wits and we realize...

The werewolf is part of a group of COSTUMED KIDS out trick-or-

treating. The kids LAUGH at Chase's reaction and hurry on,

dragging their candy loot bags behind them.

Chase sighs and turns to lock the office door. He's closing up for

the night.

He climbs into his Mobile Vet Van. We HOLD ON the new sign in the

back window: "A HALLOWEEN TREAT. FREE KITTENS." Beneath that is a

pencil-sketch of a black arched-back kitten.

INT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Marjorie and Geoff are at the kitchen table with the remnants of

dinner. Geoff is doing last-minute touches on his costume.

Marjorie looks over his costume. He's got a hockey mask pushed

back onto the top of his head.

For effect, Geoff slips the hockey mask down over his face before

answering.

Geoff checks his watch.

As Geoff heads for the door, Chase is just coming in for the

evening.

Geoff ducks out the door. Chase turns to Marjorie.

INT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Drew is at the bathroom mirror.

Amanda puts the finishing touches of color on Drew's lips. She's

done an alarmingly good job of turning Drew into THE JOKER.

Amanda looks Drew straight in the eyes.

Drew nods respectfully. Amanda gives him a kiss. Drawing back, she

rubs out the lipmarks she's left on his made-up cheek.

83    OMITTED

EXT.  PET SEMATARY - NIGHT

Dark clouds paint the foreboding sky. A broken pulse of lightning

streaks through the dense haze.

Abandoning their bikes next to the path, Drew and Geoff approach

the archway. The graveyard beyond is deathly silent.

They pass beneath the archway, entering the clearing.

And now, a soft, chilling VOICE drifts over the graves.

Geoff freezes in his tracks, awestruck as...

A WOMAN'S BODY

swoops down from the darkness above, materializing out of nowhere.

A fluttering negligee. Flowing blonde hair.

RENEE'S FACE appears out of the shadows, masked with sadness.

Geoff swallows the lump in his throat.

Renee's form keeps coming. But even as she approaches, her visage

grows less distinguishable. Just a phantom countenance now. A

shadow framed by golden hair, resting atop a veiled body...

She's coming so fast that she's upon Geoff in no time. He fumbles

back, startled out of his wits...

THE BODY is upon him now, flailing wildly. Geoff thrashes and

struggles, screaming bloody murder.

Gradually, he realizes the body isn't fighting back. Geoff eases

his struggle, lets his scream fall off.

Now he hears wild, mischievous LAUGHTER.

Drew pulls the body away. It's just a heavy wad of stuffed

clothing: A DUMMY dressed in a negligee, capped by a blonde wig.

It dangles near the end of a slanted wire.

Clyde, Stevie, Brad, and a half dozen other costumed KIDS appear

from the nearby cover of bushes, doubled over in laughter.

Clyde tugs at a piece of twine that's connected to the back of the

dummy's head and makes spooky sounds. The dummy jumps around on

the slanted wire.

Clyde drops the dummy and saunters forward.

Clyde drops down, nose to nose with Geoff, who's still recovering.

Geoff brushes himself off and rises to his feet. He stares into

Clyde's eyes.

Geoff pushes past Clyde and moves on into the graveyard, somehow

managing to keep his dignity intact.

Drew follows, then the rest of the boys, leaving Clyde staring

after them, standing alone with the dummy.

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Gus' squad car slows to a stop outside. Gus swings open the door

and ambles toward the porch.

INT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Amanda draws back from the window, mortified. She nervously

crosses to the refrigerator and grabs a beer, turning as Gus

enters.

Gus opens a kitchen drawer and fishes for a pack of cigarettes. He

fires one up.

Amanda squirms.

Gus tightens his brow, casting a suspicious eye.

A sickened look flushes through Amanda as Gus pulls his eyes away

from her and marches upstairs.

His feet POUND down the hallway. Silence for an instant. Then the

powerful swing of Drew's door. Followed by Gus' hastened return

down the hallway. And as he hustles down the stairs...

Gus stops before Amanda.

One step away from terror, Amanda shakes her head. Gus loses his

patience. He rips the can of beer from her grip and sends it

flying across the room.

Amanda sighs in quiet defeat.

Gus turns away and heads out the door.

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Wheels spin as Gus' squad car streaks off into the night. The

cherry top glows to life, bombarding the countryside.

EXT.  PET SEMATARY - NIGHT

By now, nearly TWO DOZEN COSTUMED KIDS have gathered at the Pet

Sematary. In the midst of the graves, a small story-telling

campfire burns. A number of the boys sip beer, trying to pretend

that the bitter after-taste doesn't bother them.

Clyde sits up front. At fourteen, he's the elder statesmen of the

group. With a beer in one hand, and a cigarette in the other,

Clyde is just finishing up a spooky yarn.

Clyde whistles. He drags on his cigarette and puffs out a smoke

ring. Sees he still has an audience.

Clyde stares at the wide-eyed kids. He grins, takes a swig of

beer, and moves in for the kicker.

Clyde casts a suspicious eye on the group. The kids uneasily look

at each other, making sure they know who's behind each and every

costume.

Suddenly Clyde drops his jaw in exaggerated horror.

Clyde lifts a trembling finger, pointing beyond the group of

spellbound listeners.

The kids are afraid to turn around, assuming Clyde's rigged up

some unspeakable terror...

And for an instant, a look of real horror washes over Clyde's

face...

A FIGURE

Is coming up the path beneath the archway, rising out of the

swirling mist. A frightening silhouette, backlit by the moon.

But then Clyde realizes who it is.

Drew and the others quickly turn around, realizing it's not part

of the punch-line scare.

89    OMITTED

THRU

91    OMITTED

EXT.  PET SEMATARY - NIGHT

The kids quickly scramble for hiding places in the bordering

brush, dropping their beer cans as fast as they can.

As Drew leaps to his feet, he upsets the fire, knocking one of the

logs. A FLAMING EMBER rolls to the base of one of the brittle old

crosses.

Drew and Geoff run for it.

EXT.  PATH, ARCHWAY - NIGHT

Gus moves quickly up the meandering path, sending the blinding

beam of his flashlight over the graves.

EXT.  PET SEMATARY - NIGHT

Through the thick woods, Drew is flanked by Geoff and Clyde.

Drew starts to take off. Clyde trips him on his first stride. Drew

hits the dirt.

Clyde recedes into the woods as Gus approaches the campfire. He

scans the area with his flashlight, illuminating the various beer

cans.

Geoff pulls Drew to his feet.

Gus passes the flashlight over the woods. Kids duck away,

retreating from their hiding places...

The flashlight sweeps toward Drew.

Drew freezes, spotlighted by Gus' beam. A burst of LIGHTNING

floods Drew's horrified face.

Geoff remains frozen in the woods nearby, out of Gus' light.

Behind Gus, the wooden cross is completely on fire now.

Drew shakes his head in instant denial.

Drew makes a break from his spot in the woods. He weaves through

the markers, arcing around the outer perimeter to avoid Gus...

...but Gus is quicker. He zigzags through the crosses and

headstones to intercept Drew.

Gus gets a handful of Drew's collar and yanks him in.

Gus draws his free arm back and smacks Drew across the face. Drew

goes down.

GEOFF

is looking on from the woods, horrified. Torn...

DREW

cowers on the ground, trying to scramble away.

Geoff bolts out into the firelight, staring defiantly at Gus in

silent accusation.

Gus is beyond furious. LIGHTNING flashes again.

Geoff doesn't move. Gus starts to advance forward...

...but the GROWL emanating from the woods gives him pause.

Everyone turns...

A RUSTLING is heard in the bushes, and Zowie emerges into the

building firelight, flashing his fangs at Gus. His eyes GLOW RED.

Gus freezes, studying Zowie.

Zowie inches forward, poised for the attack.

Drew shifts his eyes from Zowie to Gus, too terrified to heed such

a command.

Zowie brushes past Drew and Geoff, moving in on Gus.

Gus' eyes shift to burning cross at his side. With a swift boot,

he kicks over the cross and presses it into his grip.

Swinging the cross like a primitive weapon, Gus connects with the

side of Zowie's head.

Zowie spins a full circle from the impact. But he lands on all

fours. Unphased. Taking the next step toward Gus. There's

something clearly not of this world in Zowie's vicious stare.

All Drew can manage is a faint appeal.

Zowie goes for Gus, launching into the air...

...and sinking his glistening fangs into Gus' neck.

AN ERUPTION OF BLOOD showers the closest headstone.

Gus comes helplessly tumbling down with the weight of the dog. His

SCREAMS are suddenly cut short as Zowie rips out his throat. His

arms flail weakly at his sides, then grow still.

Drew and Geoff stare at the scene, wide-eyed with shock.

Zowie looks up from Gus' neck with dripping, red fangs. For a

moment, his eyes settle on Drew. Then Zowie bolts off,

disappearing into the night.

Drew's eyes shift to Geoff, whose face is flushed with sickened

fear.

In dazed shock, Drew moves in for a closer look at the body.

Gus' eyes are wide open. Blood is still pumping in rhythm from his

jugular with each weakening beat of his heart. It's a gruesome

image against the roaring fire.

Drew kneels at Gus' side. He wants to touch him. To shake him

awake, but with every attempt, he draws his hand back.

Drew leans forward, turning his ear toward Gus' gaping mouth. And

as he inches closer...

GUS' FINGERS TWITCH

His hand jerks up and closes around Drew's neck. Gus stares up at

him with his crazed menace.

Drew SCREAMS. His fingers claw at Gus' hand, desperate to pry it

loose...

...but then, Gus' hand relaxes as his last, dying ounce of

strength fades away.

Drew shrinks back, crouching over the lifeless body as the blazing

firelight dances over it. He turns his tear-filled gaze to Geoff.

Geoff draws closer and looks down into the dead man's face.

Drew's eyes widen at the suggestion.

And now, GAZING DOWN on Gus' body, and on the boys, WE PULL UP

INTO A SLOW SPIRAL...

We move ever higher, until we are LOOKING DOWN UPON THE ENTIRE PET

SEMATARY. At the SOUND of a shovel cutting into rocky soil, we...

95    OMITTED

EXT.  MICMAC BURIAL GROUND - NIGHT

Three quick shots:

A SHOVEL sinking into the earth.

GUS falling head down into the grave, landing with a heavy THUD.

SOIL covering Gus' lifeless face.

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Amanda is pacing back and forth on the porch, checking her watch

every few steps. She sighs with relief as...

Drew appears from the darkness of the woods.

Drew dismounts his bike and carries it up the front porch steps,

strangely silent. His clothes and face are caked with dirt.

Drew moves on past her into the house.

Drew pauses and stares out into the unknown darkness of the night.

INT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Chase is in the study, perusing some files. He looks into the

hallway as Geoff arrives home, then glances at the clock. It's

late. Very late.

Chase rises. He's both angry and relieved. Right now, though, the

anger's winning out.

Geoff absently shakes his head. He slumps back against the wall,

drained from the night's horrors.

Geoff shrugs, trying to mask his uneasiness.

Chase stops and looks at his son. Geoff's exhaustion is self-

evident.

Geoff nods and heads for the stairs.

INT.  GEOFF'S ROOM - NIGHT

THE CLOCK is creeping up on 2AM...

THUNDER rumbles outside in the distance and rain starts to spatter

the window panes.

Geoff's eyelids fall beneath unbearable weight and he nods off to

sleep. Tiger is sprawled out on the blanket against his chest.

Slowly, we move back towards the window...

In a flash of LIGHTNING--

GUS' FACE

APPEARS OUTSIDE. Washed in the haunting white glow. Streaked with

mud. Caked with blood. Staring in at Geoff.

Geoff is jolted awake by the delayed clap of THUNDER and whips his

gaze to the window. Before he can focus...

...the pulse of lightning fades away. And with it, Gus' face. Only

darkness remains beyond the window pane.

Geoff returns his gaze to the bedroom, unaware of Gus' appearance.

He sinks back to his pillow, already hurtling towards sleep once

more.

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

MOVING IN ON the house, WE SINGLE OUT a rain-obscured window on

the ground floor, the window to Drew's bedroom.

INT.  DREW'S ROOM - NIGHT

Drew is sound asleep, curled up under the sheets. He clutches his

pillow like a life preserver.

Drew's eyes flutter open. He turns towards the window. Now, he

hears some activity outside. And then Gus' hushed voice.

Drew goes saucer-eyed. He swallows the swelling lump in his throat

and rises from his bed.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

Drew steadies his quivering fingers just enough to sink the key

into the deadbolt on the back door. Drawing the CREAKING door

open, he gazes out back.

Nothing moves outside. The longer Drew watches, the more eerie

each shadow becomes. Spooked, Drew steps back inside, quickly

closing the door. He locks it back up again.

When he turns around, he's face to face with GUS.

Drew stiffens, backing into the wall.

Gus offers a nightmarish grin and raises his hand, dangling his

keys.

Drew's eyes follow a flow of blood from Gus' neck to the floor.

Gus looks down at his dirty, bloody footprints. He's tracked blood

all over the linoleum.

Gus turns without another word and heads for the stairs.

Drew's mouth drops in utter astonishment as he watches Gus

clumsily climbing the stairs.

After a moment, he returns his attention to the bloody kitchen

floor. Tearing off a wad of paper towels, he wets them and begins

to mop up Gus' tracks.

103   OMITTED

AT THE MIRROR - NIGHT

Gazing vacantly at his reflection, Gus covers his ravaged throat

with a gauze strip, wrapping it around the circumference of his

neck again and again and again.

Behind him, the shower is running, filling up the bathroom with

steam.

Finishing the dressing off with a sloppy tape job, Gus reaches for

the pajamas hanging nearby. He lazily buttons the buttons, failing

to notice their alignment is off. He never did bother to shower.

He's still covered with mud.

INT.  AMANDA AND GUS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Gus enters from the steamy bathroom. The shower is still running.

Amanda stirs, sleepy eyes focusing on him.

Gus lifts the covers and climbs in. With him comes the chill of

death. Gus presses up behind her. His hand moves beneath the

sheets, finding its way over the curve of her waist, caressing.

Amanda shivers.

It's then that Amanda sees the bandage around Gus' neck. Blood is

seeping through the gauze.

Amanda reaches out to touch him, but Gus stops her hand short of

the bandage. Instead, he leans forward and clutches one of her

breasts.

Amanda tries to twist away.

But Gus doesn't stop. He throws himself on top of Amanda, roughly

forcing her back onto the bed.

Amanda's hands beat at Gus' face and back, to no apparent effect.

With one arm forced against Amanda's throat, he rips open her

nightgown with the other.

We pull away from Amanda's struggles, back to the bathroom. The

shower running on and on, cloaking the bedroom in steam.

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Geoff is riding along the highway, his backpack full of school

books. Drew is waiting on the shoulder ahead. When Geoff

approaches, Drew hops on his bike, getting up to speed.

WITH THE BOYS - RIDING

Geoff keeps glancing at Drew, waiting for him to say something.

Drew maintains his enigmatic expression.

Drew nods. Geoff's eyes widen in disbelief.

The words have their own meaning for Geoff, who stares to the road

ahead in deep thought.

They share a chuckle that ends in silent uneasiness.

INT.  CHASE'S OFFICE - DAY

Chase enters with a stack of files tucked under his arm. As he

organizes them in the large filing cabinet with the others, he

listens to his messages on the answering machine.

The current caller sounds a little annoyed...

Chase abandons the filing and immediately returns the call. While

it RINGS...

A MOTHER and TWO TODDLERS are standing in the doorway to Chase's

office, trying not to intrude on his call.

Chase studies them. They look like decent people.

Chase turns away as his phone call is answered.

INT.  LAB/INT.  CHASE'S OFFICE (INTERCUT) - DAY

ELLIOT RUDMAN has the phone tucked under his chin, in the midst of

an autopsy. The WHIRR of the saw drowns out his words as he shaves

the dome off a dog's skull.

The pathologist turns off the saw. His words become audible.

The comment hits Chase out of left field.

Chase is baffled, speechless.

110   OMITTED

THRU

112   OMITTED

INT.  BOARDING AREA - DAY

The kennels have been cleaned up, but the room retains its eerie,

dimly lit quality.

The DRIP of a faucet reverberates from the far corner.

The mother enters with a toddler clinging to each hand. Their

smiles fade at the unsettling surroundings. Slowly, they move down

the row of kennels.

INT.  CHASE'S OFFICE - DAY

Suddenly, BLOOD-CURDLING SCREAMS pierce the air. Chase drops the

phone and rushes out of the office...

INT.  BOARDING AREA - DAY

The toddlers are screaming at the top of their lungs. Mom is

burying their heads in her dress.

Chase bursts in as the mother hastily retreats for the exit. Her

horrified eyes flash by Chase. In an instant, she and the toddlers

are gone.

Chase remains alone, moving down the long row of kennels with

mounting trepidation...

Zowie's cage is empty.

Chase shifts his troubled gaze to the...

DRIP DRIP DRIP... as a PUDDLE OF BLOOD forms on the floor.

Chase raises his eyes...

THE KITTENS' KENNEL -

Nothing but bloody ribbons of torn flesh are left of the kittens,

dangling from the grid gate. DRIPPING.

Chase looks away as a new level of fear runs through him.

It's too gruesome even for a man of Chase's background. Fighting

the gag reflex, he searches the room for the missing dog...

...and then he spots the broken glass window vent along the floor.

And the pile of blood-spattered shards laying on the tile.

EXT.  SCHOOL, STREET - DAY

Clyde, Stevie, and Brad are loitering near the front bike racks.

Clyde's smoking away.

As Geoff and Drew come out of the school, the trio moves to

intercept them.

Just then, Chase's van pulls at the curb, interrupting whatever

trouble was about to happen.

Clyde looks from the van to Geoff, and falls back.

Chase hurriedly rolls down the passenger window as Geoff and Drew

approach.

Chase is preoccupied with other concerns.

Geoff and Drew exchange concerned looks.

The boys nod their heads.

Chase masks his anxiety with a weary smile. With a wave, he speeds

up, leaving the boys.

INT.  CHASE'S VAN - MOVING

A MAP of Maine is unfolded on the passenger seat. Chase is on the

car phone.

Chase jots an address down on the map. He turns the van up a

mountain road, winding through the towering pines.

EXT.  YOLANDER'S CABIN - DAY

A remote, rustic dwelling nestled into the desolate backwoods.

INT.  YOLANDER'S CABIN - DAY

QUENTIN YOLANDER rocks back in his thick hide chair. His world is

closed off from daylight by the extensive blinds.

He's holding a SMALL POODLE in his lap. Its big brown eyes are

staring back at him.

And now, ONE OF THE POODLE'S EYES POPS OUT. Yolander's finger

comes through from beneath the eye socket.

On closer examination, WE REALIZE that the dog is not alive at

all. Yolander has his hand inside the hollowed-out carcass.

He carefully looks over a container of glass eyes on his desk and

selects the right shade of blue. A shot of whiskey rests nearby.

Yolander reaches up into the poodle's belly and fits the blue eyes

securely into place.

There's a KNOCK at the door. Yolander ignores it. Maybe he's deaf.

Another KNOCK. Yolander turns towards the door, annoyed at the

intrusion. And behind that annoyance, there's a touch of madness.

PULLING BACK, we see the rest of the room. Stuffed animals are

crowded from floor to ceiling. A product of Yolander's obsession

with TAXIDERMY.

Yolander presses some stuffing into the poodle's gut and begins to

sew up the stomach.

Yolander's attention remains on the needle as he meticulously

stitches the belly.

At this, Yolander breaks his concentration. The needle pricks his

hand. Blood oozes from the puncture, dripping onto the dog's

stomach.

Yolander rises from his seat and swings open the door.

Chase stands in the doorway, startled. It doesn't take a genius to

figure out that the good Doctor is drunk.

Chase glances to the right and steps back...

A BOBCAT

is perched nearby, frozen in mid-pounce. It takes a second for

Chase to register that the bobcat has been stuffed.

Now Chase sees the rest of the room... a whole zoo of stuffed

animals, looking like a rural version of the Bates Motel.

Quentin Yolander laughs. It's disconcerting.

As Yolander moves forward, Chase backs up. He bumps into a whole

shelf of stuffed creatures. To his right, A RAVEN sits frozen on

its perch. Chase regards Yolander as being completely insane.

Chase continues to back out of the door. On his way out, he bumps

into the stuffed raven's perch...

...only this raven isn't stuffed. It spreads its wings and

SCREECHES.

Chase just about jumps out of his skin, tripping out of the

doorway.

116D  OMITTED

THRU

116F  OMITTED

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Gus reaches into the cage and grabs a rabbit by the ears. He

casually snaps the neck. Laying the limp carcass on a stump

cutting board, he quickly skins it.

Hanging above the cages, there is now a line of furry pelts. Half

a dozen.

Drew and Geoff are on the porch, looking on.

Gus hangs the freshly skinned fur to dry and violently snatches

another hare from the cage.

INT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The dinner from Hell. Geoff splats a helping of mashed potatoes

onto his plate, all the while keeping a wary eye on Gus...

Gus is serving himself a chunk of rabbit. It hits the edge of the

plate, teetering on the rim. He passes the dish on.

Gus meets Geoff's gaze. For a moment, there's a deadened, vacant

look in Gus' eyes. Then slowly, a limp smile creeps over him,

sending a chill up Geoff's spine.

Geoff averts Gus' stare. Gus helps himself to potatoes and passes

the plate on. He lets go of it short of reaching Drew. Only Drew's

quick hands save it from hitting the table.

Amanda comes to the table with a dish of LIMA BEANS. She casts Gus

a cold, hateful stare and sets the limas down. She's still angry

over last night.

Gus dishes a sloppy scoop and passes it toward Drew. Like before,

he lets it drop too early. This time Drew doesn't save it. The

lima beans shower the floor.

Amanda fetches a dishtowel and kneels to clean up the mess.

Geoff and Drew exchange quick glances. As Geoff reaches for the

salt...

...Gus intercepts his wrist. Geoff gulps.

Gus drops his jaw, revealing a gooey mass of food. But the frozen

smile and the look in his eyes convey dementia rather than

playfulness.

Geoff and Drew can't believe their eyes. They laugh uncomfortably.

There's no other response.

Gus LAUGHS too... awkward, terrible laughter. Spitting out food

over his shirt and plate as he does so.

The boys stop laughing, but Gus just keeps on going.

Amanda stares at Gus and carries the mess out of the room.

Through his laughter, Gus' bandage has slipped down, exposing part

of his ragged wound. The wound glistens, oozing CLOTTED BLOOD and

GOOEY PUS.

Drew hesitantly reaches for Gus' neck, readjusting the bandage.

Grossed out, Geoff averts his eyes and sets his fork aside.

INT.  DREW'S ROOM - LATER

Geoff and Drew enter. Drew swiftly secures the deadbolts on his

door.

Drew opens the chest at the foot of his bed and produces a

SHOTGUN. A box full of shells spill as he withdraws the gun.

Cracking open the chamber, Drew loads two shells into the chamber.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

A moonlit horizon. Unmoving. Silent. The kind of silence that

pulls at the darkest recesses of imagination.

And now, A LONE FIGURE appears on the horizon. It's Zowie, moving

at a deliberate pace.

ATOP A KNOLL

Zowie takes pause. The TINKLING of his collar tags resumes as he

drops over the horizon line, cutting down the hill.

INT.  CHASE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Chase sits in the den, looking exhausted and disheveled. In front

of him, the t.v. is on. RENEE'S FACE stares out at us. Chase hits

the remote and rises, moving to the back door.

He checks the deadbolt, then secures the chain link as a backup.

From somewhere outside, we hear a DOG HOWL.

Chase's eyes drop to the DOGGY DOOR, a holdover from the previous

owner. Chase bends down and latches the door.

Now he pauses at his desk... considers... then pulls something out

of the bottom drawer. It's a gun.

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Chase moves to the front of the house, securing that door.

Satisfied, he turns off the light and heads upstairs...

WE STAY AT THE FOOT OF THE STAIRS -

MOVING INTO DARKNESS, shadow and form begin to take shape. We hear

a low GROWL and see a flash of RED EYES. It's Zowie. Already in

the house.

123   OMITTED

INT.  CHASE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Coming through the door from the downstairs, Chase stops cold.

RENEE is on the bed. Clothed in a negligee. Lying across a blanket

of rose petals. Her eyes meet his with powerful longing.

Chase approaches. Slowly. Fearful that this is all a dream.

Renee reaches out her hand. They touch. This is not a dream.

Chase absently sets his gun on the bedside table as Renee draws

his body to hers.

They kiss. Once. Twice. Not a dream.

Renee rolls Chase over, forcefully climbing on top. Chase sinks

down into the center of the bed as Renee straddles him.

Slowly, Renee slips off the top of her negligee...

...and sinks down on top of him, kissing him hungrily.

Her nipples graze his chest, then her breasts flatten as she

grinds her hips against his.

Almost instantly, the weight of her grows unbearable. Chase fights

to pull his mouth from hers, to breathe...

There is no pleasure in his words, just unmitigated horror as

Renee's body comes down on him harder.

CHASE'S EYES

pop open, frenzied, AS HE COMES OUT OF HIS DREAM.

Chase is alone on the bed, but he's still feeling the weight

pressing down on him...

ZOWIE

is laying on his chest, staring back at him, rearing his teeth in

a growl...

Zowie LUNGES forward, jaws flashing, and Chase twists sideways...

GNASHING TEETH connect with Chase's shoulder, then with the

pillows where Chase's head used to be. A BLIZZARD OF DOWN FEATHERS

ERUPTS...

Chase scrambles out of bed, flailing for the gun on the bedside

table...

THE GUN spins out of reach and across the floor...

Chase DIVES for the gun and reaches it just as Zowie leaps to the

floor. In a panic, Chase FIRES WILD...

Zowie abruptly turns and SMASHES through the bedroom window,

sending glass flying.

EXT.  HOUSE - NIGHT

Zowie slides down the room and leaps to the ground below,

disappearing into the night.

INT.  CHASE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Chase looks on in terror. Finally he pulls his eyes away from the

shattered window...

...and catches a glimpse of something in the dresser mirror.

Something that sends a chill up his spine.

The flurry of down feathers is floating to the mattress. But

intermingling with the feathers are a handful of ROSE PETALS,

slowly settling to the bed.

INT.  BATHROOM - MORNING

Chase is bare-chested at the mirror, applying a dressing to the

dog bite on his shoulder.

Marjorie appears in the doorway with a basket of laundry. She

stops short at the sight of Chase standing there in his boxers.

Chase catches her reflection in the mirror and is startled.

Chase turns, shaking off the scare.

Marjorie's eyes can't help but fix on the dog bites scattered over

Chase's chest and arms.

Marjorie sets the laundry aside.

Marjorie looks over the antiseptics Chase has laid out on the

sink. Saturating a wad of gauze with hydrogen peroxide, she gently

cleanses the gashes on his arms.

There's nothing overtly sexual in her actions, but the gentleness

of her touch doesn't go unnoticed by Chase.

Chase stops and looks at Marjorie's reflection in the mirror.

Marjorie stiffens for a moment. Obviously the Creeds are a sore

spot for the people in this town.

Marjorie tapes the bandage over Chase's shoulder too tight.

Chase's groan snaps her back to the reality at hand.

Chase closes his eyes, shutting out the pain.

INT.  LIBRARY - DAY

Chase approaches the counter, looking to the ELDERLY LIBRARIAN for

assistance.

The librarian's smile vanishes. She lowers her voice, focusing her

attention on some paperwork.

Chase looks around and realizes that a dozen hostile eyes are on

him. TOWNSPEOPLE withholding a dark secret.

Chase slowly backs away, eager to escape the field of hostile

stares.

127   OMITTED

THRU

129   OMITTED

EXT.  HIGHWAY, COUNTRY BRIDGE - DAY

Geoff and Drew have parked their bikes beneath the bridge. They

sit on the bank of the creek below, watching the water run past.

Geoff is lost in thought.

Drew nods. He tosses a stone into the creek, then looks up at the

sun and sighs.

Drew shakes his head.

The boys reluctantly rise and move to their bikes, walking them up

the steep grade to the highway.

Geoff nods. He looks at Drew. The boy is genuinely frightened. But

there's nothing either of them can do. They're trapped in their

roles as kids.

Both boys mount their bikes. Drew turns...

Drew smiles at this. He waves to Geoff and pedals off.

Geoff waves and heads off in the opposite direction.

WE STAY ON DREW -

As he moves down the road. Up ahead, we hear the approaching WHINE

of a motorcycle...

CLYDE

rips by on an old junkyard fixer-up MOTORCYCLE, and he's heading

in Geoff's direction.

Seeing him, Drew brakes and pulls his bike into a U-turn, pumping

furiously to catch up with Geoff.

ON GEOFF -

Now Geoff hears the WHINE of Clyde's motorcycle. He glances

back...

Clyde's spotted him, REVVING the engine.

Geoff pedals like mad, but it's no use. Clyde is closing in on

him, grinning sadistically.

Clyde sweeps in next to him, calling out over the ENGINE.

Clyde veers right, forcing Geoff towards the shoulder of the

road...

131   OMITTED

132   OMITTED

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

The ground ahead drops toward a ravine. Geoff has nowhere to go

but down the slope. Clyde is right there beside him...

Laughing, Clyde reaches over and grabs ahold of Geoff's handlebar.

He jerks it sideways...

Geoff's front wheel turns perpendicular. The bike pitches forward,

THROWING Geoff into the dirt ahead...

Clyde broadies his bike to a stop. With the engine idling, he hops

off.

Before Geoff can get to his feet, Clyde has picked up Geoff's bike

and planted it upside down in the dirt.

Clyde gets a handful of Geoff's collar and drags him over toward

the bike. With his free hand, Clyde cranks the pedal.

The back wheel spins. Faster and faster.

Through the blur of the spokes, WE SEE Geoff, eyes widening

fearfully.

Clyde forces Geoff's face toward the spinning tread.

Geoff tries to get a hold on the frame of the bike for leverage,

but his arms don't reach beyond the spinning wheel.

Clyde is full of deranged glee, fueled by Geoff's fear.

But now, A HAND grabs the wool scarf streaming from the back of

Clyde's neck and yanks him off of Geoff.

Clyde reels, finding...

GUS standing there behind him. He looks bad. Real bad. His

bandages are unwound and his ruined neck is still seeping. His

face is unearthly pale. He's deteriorated considerably since

yesterday.

Gus levels a threatening gaze at Geoff.

But Geoff remains frozen. Gus fixes him with a stare that could

turn flesh to stone.

Geoff snaps out of it and flips his bike over. He gets a running

start, making a beeline for the highway without ever looking back.

ON THE KNOLL NEARBY

Drew stops short of the ravine, watching from afar as Gus steps

toward Clyde.

BELOW -

Clyde throws up his hands. He's frightened, but he tries to muster

up a cocky front.

Clyde grows increasingly wary of Gus' evil stare. Gus steps

closer.

Wrong. Gus lashes out, backhanding Clyde across the face.

Clyde falls to the ground, flat on his back, with his nose gushing

blood. Terrified.

Gus turns around and lifts the idling motorcycle. With one hand

under the back of the seat, and the other working the accelerator

handlebar, Gus advances toward Clyde.

Gus kicks the bike into gear and REVS the accelerator.

THE REAR WHEEL SPINS. On the pavement it would be moving forty

miles an hour.

Clyde can't believe his eyes. Pleading.

Gus plants his foot against Clyde's chest, pinning him, and lowers

the spinning rear wheel TOWARD CLYDE'S NECK. The wheel WHINES like

a circular saw.

Gus lowers the wheel. Then jerks it away, flashing a sadistic

smile.

Just when Clyde thinks Gus is backing off, the wheel comes down

again...

Gus gets into the rhythm as he lowers and retracts the spinning

wheel at the terrified bully.

But this time, as the wheel comes down...

CLYDE'S WOOL SCARF, defying gravity, gets swept up, swallowed into

the GEARS.

And along with the scarf, here comes Clyde's SCREAMING face. We

can only imagine the gruesome instant that follows.

BLOOD sprays up over Gus' arms and chest. And then we hear the

sound of CRUNCHING BONES jamming the motorcycle's gears.

He bares his teeth in a death's head grin.

ON THE KNOLL

Drew has witnessed the killing. He's mortified.

BELOW -

Gus tosses the bloody motorcycle aside, slowly raising his eyes up

to where Drew stands. His eyes meet Drew's.

Drew hastily jerks his bike around and takes off.

Gus starts after him on foot.

INT.  DREW'S HOUSE - DAY

Drew rushes through the front door, SLAMMING it behind him and

throwing the deadbolt.

INT.  BEDROOM - DAY

Drew climbs onto his bed and grabs his shotgun from the gun rack.

His fingers shake as he flips off the safety.

Just then we hear the CRACKLE of a POLICE P.A. and Gus' amplified

VOICE coming from the yard outside.

Gus finishes his words with a burst of FEEDBACK and then amplified

MANIACAL LAUGHTER.

Drew's eyes go wide with terror. He creeps out into the hall,

clutching the gun.

INT.  HALLWAY - DAY

Drew tries to look out the window. Then we hear a low, guttural

GROWL. Drew slowly turns...

Zowie is standing down the hall, leveling a dead stare. Zowie

takes the first step forward.

Pleading, Drew slowly retreats down the hallway.

Along the way, he backs right into...

GUS, grinning from ear to ear.

Drew recoils against the wall, swinging up his shotgun.

But Gus just keeps on grinning. He takes a step forward...

Drew pulls the trigger...

And CLICK! Nothing happens. The chambers are empty.

Gus raises his hand. He's holding the shotgun shells. He lets them

fall to the floor.

Suddenly Gus wrenches the gun from Drew's hands. He swings it

and...

...Drew SCREAMS and ducks beneath the blow, as the shotgun butt

SMASHES a hole in the wall above his head. Gus flings the shotgun

aside and LUNGES for Drew...

Drew races down the hallway to the back door. He turns the latch.

The deadbolt has been locked from the inside.

Drew's eyes whip to the keyholder on the wall. All the keyhooks

are empty.

Here comes the JINGLING of keys in Gus' pockets as he comes down

the hall...

Drew dashes away from the back door.

Gus' eyes shift from Drew's fleeing form to A BOX OF TOOLS in the

service closet.

AT THE FRONT DOOR

Drew jimmies the knob. Again, the deadbolt is locked from the

inside. Tears are streaming down Drew's face now.

FOOTSTEPS approach. Drew spins around...

Gus is advancing, WITH A HAMMER tight in his grip.

WHAM! Gus SMASHES the hammer into the wall to punctuate his words.

Plaster goes flying.

Drew's eyes dart frantically, looking for a way out. The closest

route of escape is UP THE STAIRS.

Down the hallway, Zowie starts running forward. Drew's caught

between a rock and a hard place...

He runs for it. Gus charges to intercept him...

Drew gets to the stairs first.

WHAM! Gus brings the hammer down with the claw end leading. It

sinks into the stair below Drew's feet...

Zowie LEAPS past Gus, tearing up the stairs as Gus wrenches the

hammer free...

UPSTAIRS

Drew makes it to the top of the stairs with Zowie right on his

heels.

Drew DIVES into Amanda and Gus' bedroom as...

Zowie springs from the floor. Drew SLAMS the door shut, SMACKING

Zowie. Zowie collapses to the floor, dazed.

INT.  BEDROOM - DAY

Drew throws the latch on the door. Almost immediately, Gus is

outside, POUNDING at the door with the claw end of the hammer.

Wood splinters fly as the hammer claw sinks through...

Drew SCREAMS and goes for one of the dormer windows. It's stuck;

he can't get it open.

From the hallway, Gus violently SMASHES the door again and again.

The door is splintering apart. WE SEE glimpses of Gus through the

ragged holes.

Drew grabs a chair and HEAVES it through the window...

The bedroom door EXPLODES INWARD and Gus claws his way into the

room...

Wasting no time, Drew climbs through the broken window...

EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - DAY

Drew slides down the slant of the roof. He hits the lattice and

takes it to the ground with him.

Untangling himself, he gets to his feet...

...and here comes Amanda, ARRIVING HOME.

Drew runs for her car, waving his hands, throwing himself into her

path so she'll go no further. She SLAMS on the brakes.

Drew pulls open the passenger door and dives inside...

Just then, the BACK DOOR flies open. Gus steps out.

Amanda spots the hammer hanging from his grip. Gus cracks a sick

smile and FLINGS THE HAMMER at the car...

CRACK! The hammer bounces off the windshield, causing it to

spiderweb.

That's all the convincing Amanda needs. She puts the car into

reverse and stomps on the gas...

INT.  CAR - DAY

Speeding down the highway. Drew and Amanda are mortified.

Suddenly, we hear the WAIL of Gus' patrol car coming up from

behind. Amanda looks to the rear-view mirror...

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY

Approaching from the road ahead is a POTATO TRUCK.

INT.  AMANDA'S CAR - DAY

Amanda hips her head back in front of them. The potato truck is

blaring its HORN.

Gus' car swerves out onto the shoulder, speeding up to match her

pace.

Gus cranks the wheel, jumping back onto the road, forcing Amanda's

car into the path of the oncoming truck.

INT.  POTATO TRUCK - DAY

THE DRIVER stands on the BRAKES.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY

THE POTATO TRUCK COLLIDES WITH AMANDA'S CAR. HEAD ON.

Thousands of potatoes explode from the rear of the truck,

obscuring our view.

WE HEAR THE HORRIFYING SOUNDS OF CRUNCHING METAL. CRUNCHING BONES.

AND SILENCED CRIES.

Gus' vehicle speeds past. WE HOLD on the mess of twisted steel.

Clearly there are no survivors.

INT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE - DUSK

Geoff enters first. Wearing a dark suit. Looking pale and empty

inside. Chase follows, dressed in black. It's obvious they've been

to a funeral.

Without a word, Geoff heads up the stairs. Chase watches on,

feeling utterly helpless.

INT.  UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

Chase exits from his bedroom, pulling a sweater over a more casual

change of clothes. He cocks his head at the SOUNDS of Geoff moving

about in the attic above.

The door atop the attic stairway is barely ajar.

Chase wrinkles his brow, concerned. Turning away, he heads

downstairs.

INT.  KITCHEN - DAY

Marjorie is preparing dinner. Across the room, the kitchen TV is

playing...

ON TELEVISION is the evening news. A photo of Drew and Amanda

appears above the NEWSCASTER.

Chase enters the kitchen, eyes moving to the TV.

Chase pulls his eyes away from the broadcast as Marjorie sets

dinner on the table. Chase yells upstairs.

Chase gives Marjorie an apologetic look and rises from the table.

Meanwhile, the news broadcast continues. A photo of Clyde appears

on the screen.

150   OMITTED

INT.  ATTIC - NIGHT

Chase pushes open the door. A spring coil pulls the CREAKING door

closed behind him. One look at the attic and Chase turns pale...

A huge window at the far end of the room allows the moonlight to

reach all corners of the spacious old attic...

All of Renee's belongings have been unpacked. The entire attic has

been converted into a museum-like room, down to the last

meticulous detail. A room in preparation for Renee's return.

Gauzy curtains billow out from some unseen draft. Pictures of

Renee rest everywhere. Awards. Memorabilia...

GEOFF is seated before the brightly lit, three-way theatrical

mirror, casually setting out Renee's make-up.

There's an obsessive dementia in Geoff's gaze.

Chase sighs. Obviously the strain of Drew's funeral has proven too

much for Geoff. He moves closer.

A creepy smile flickers across Geoff's face.

Chase freezes as a chill runs up his spine.

At this, Chase is positively spooked.

Chase stares at his son. This is insane. It must be.

Just then, the PHONE RINGS downstairs. Geoff continues to stare at

his father.

It's too much for Chase. His mouth is hanging agape.

Chase nods in private acknowledgement. He stares at Geoff as he

backs away.

Geoff doesn't respond. Chase pulls open the door and leaves.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

Chase is on the phone. The CALLER'S WORDS bring grave concern to

Chase.

Chase hangs up, stunned. He turns to Marjorie, who's watching him

with a concerned gaze.

Chase is out the door before she has a chance to respond.

151B  OMITTED

THRU

151F  OMITTED

INT.  ATTIC - NIGHT

Geoff is laying on his mother's bed, weeping. Tiger sits at the

foot of the bed. Suddenly she wakens and HISSES.

From out of the darkness...

RENEE'S HAND

ENTERS FRAME, gently touching Geoff's side. And with its arrival,

so comes her eerie LULLABY.

GEOFF

slowly raises his head, bewildered. Renee's hand withdraws into

the darkness. He reaches out for her, but she's gone. The LULLABY

remains, beckoning from down the attic stairs.

The attic door slowly swings open of its own accord.

Geoff rises from the bed and follows.

INT.  DOWNSTAIRS FOYER - NIGHT

Geoff looks into the living room as he passes. Marjorie has fallen

asleep on the sofa with the TV on.

155   OMITTED

EXT.  PET SEMATARY - NIGHT

The lullaby drifts from beyond the deadfall. The fog rolls inward,

towards the distant burial ground. As Geoff moves towards the

deadfall, the fog converges around him.

157   OMITTED

EXT.  THE BOG - NIGHT

The lure of Renee's lullaby pulls Geoff deeper into the woods. We

hear the unearthly ANIMAL HOWL once more.

159   OMITTED

THRU

167   OMITTED

EXT.  PLEASANTVILLE CEMETERY - NIGHT

Chase's van pulls to a stop behind a maintenance vehicle.

Chase is greeted by the limping CARETAKER, who quickly leads him

off across the rolling hillside.

AT RENEE'S GRAVE -

Chase stops cold, gazing at the ground before him in disbelief...

The grave is a gaping cavity. The casket has been unearthed.

Renee's body is missing.

The caretaker points across the hillside...

TIRE TRACKS cut through the manicured grass, cutting a path of

destruction right through the field of headstones and on through

the fence.

Chase doesn't answer, he just storms past the caretaker.

INT.  VAN - NIGHT

The van is speeding down the dark, open highway. Chase is on the

car phone, frantic, waiting as it RINGS. There's finally an

answer...

Yolander cuts him off.

INT.  YOLANDER'S HOUSE (INTERCUT)

Yolander sits in the darkness, a bottle of whiskey and a tumbler

at his side. His "creatures" are all around him, eyes glowing with

reflected moonlight. His voice is slurred. The voice of someone

who's already damned.

INT.  CHASE'S VAN - NIGHT

Chase grips the carphone tightly, his knuckles white.

But Yolander does. And now we hear the DIAL TONE.

Chase flings the carphone down, looking up as...

An approaching potato truck ZOOMS by. Blinding headlights. A

BLARING HORN. Chase barely swerves out of the way.

Recovering from the scare, Chase reaches over and opens the glove

compartment. He pulls out his gun and sets it on the seat next to

him.

EXT.  MICMAC BURIAL GROUND

Geoff climbs the stone steps, reaching the flattop meas. He stops

short, looking over the clearing...

GUS

is standing in the center of the burial ground. He's HUMMING,

mimicking Renee's feminine tone. Now he stops and slowly turns,

regarding Geoff with dead eyes. He's holding a pickaxe and shovel

at his side.

Gus looks to the ground at his side. Geoff follows his gaze...

A VISION OF RENEE'S GRAVE APPEARS -

Headstone. Manicured grass. Thriving flowers. As if it had been

uprooted from her resting place at Pleasantville and set down

right in the middle of the Micmac ground.

And now, the vision of Renee's grave fades away. In its place is a

bundle of white: RENEE'S SHROUDED BODY.

Gus raises the pickaxe, offering it to Geoff.

Geoff slowly nods and approaches, seduced beyond reason.

169   OMITTED

THRU

177   OMITTED

INT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Marjorie stirs on the couch, blinking her eyes open at the SOUND

of a THUD upstairs. Otherwise, the house is dark and silent.

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Marjorie starts up the long, dark flight of stairs to the attic.

The thin night-shirt she's wearing does little to protect her from

the sudden cold. She clutches herself, shivering.

INT.  ATTIC - NIGHT

Marjorie cautiously pushes open the door. Her concern for Geoff is

forgotten as she beholds the Renee Hallow memorabilia.

She moves about Renee's unpacked belongings in bewildered

reverence.

The gauzy curtains billow about Marjorie like ghosts. And then she

glimpses something beyond the curtains...

A FIGURE

stands in the shadows, wearing the BEADED PEACH DRESS that

Marjorie had admired earlier. For a moment we think it's Renee,

but as Marjorie draws closer, we see that the dress has been

fitted onto a dressmaker's model.

Marjorie lays a hand on the fabric, feeling the contours of the

design.

EEXT.  GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT

Chase's headlights sweep across the front of the dark house.

Pulling to a stop, Chase opens the van's door...

ZOWIE

LEAPS out of the darkness, sinking his teeth into Chase's

shoulder.

Chase is thrown back over the car seat, grappling with the

nightmare dog as it tears into him again and again...

Chase SCREAMS, reaching back for the gun. He grabs hold of it and

swings it around... FIRES...

Zowie is BLOWN backwards, clear out of the car, spraying CHASE

with BLOOD...

Zowie lands outside on his feet, looking stunned. His chest is a

ruined mess. Zowie WHIMPERS and drags himself weakly towards the

front porch.

Chase stumbles out of the van, clutching the gun. He's bleeding

profusely.

179   OMITTED

EXT.  PORCH - NIGHT

An old saw is laying in a pile of sawdust next to a square hole

that's been cut in the base of the front door.

Chase gives it a look as he tries the door. It's unlocked. Chase

enters, bringing with him an illuminating swath from his

headlights.

INT.  GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT

Chase's headlights stream through the windows, distorting the

interior. The house looks like it's been through a tornado. A

trail of BLOODY PAW PRINTS leads into the kitchen. The stench is

repulsive. Grimacing, Chase has to keep himself from gagging.

As Chase moves forward, he catches sight of...

GUS

standing in a swath of light. At Gus' feet is Zowie, tongue

lolling out of his mouth. Dead for the second time. Scattered

around the dog are various tools.

Propped against the wall is the cut out square of wood. It's

fitted with hinges at the top.

Gus glances down at the dead dog.

Gus brings a cordless electric drill up from his side, pointing it

at Chase in a threatening manner.

As Gus moves forward, Chase gets a good look at him for the first

time. He doesn't look even remotely alive.

Chase levels his gun with a trembling hand.

Gus stabs the air with the drill, feeding on Chase's horror.

Chase pulls the trigger. A bullet pounds Gus' chest. A SPRAY OF

FLESH explodes from his back.

Unphased, Gus regains his balance.

Before Chase can squeeze off the next round, Gus rips the gun from

his grip...

Opening the chamber, Gus empties the remaining bullets and tosses

the gun aside.

Gus fires up the drill. The bit spinZZZZZZ. He DIVES at Chase,

knocking him back against the counter. The drill bit SINKS INTO

CHASE'S ARM...

Chase SCREAMS as Gus withdraws it. Now, he presses it into Chase's

shoulder. Chase is on the verge of blacking out now. The pain is

unbearable...

Gus withdraws the drill once again, aiming now for Chase's eye.

The whirling drill bit is millimeters away from Chase's eye. He

clutches Gus' arm, trying to force the drill aside...

At the last second, adrenaline kicks in and Chase diverts the

drill. It SINKS INTO the counter-top nearby... STUCK.

Gus ROARS, lashing out, but Chase manages to duck away...

Chase catches sight of HIS GUN on the floor. He scrambles for it,

scooping it up...

BULLETS are rolling across the floor every which way. Chase slaps

his palm down on one and desperately fumbles with the chamber...

Gus' hands CLAMP DOWN around Chase's neck. He swings Chase around

and SLAMS him against the wall, lifting him off his feet...

Chase GASPS as the life is literally crushed out of him...

He brings the gun up beneath Gus' chin and jams it into his ruined

throat. Gus just keeps on throttling him...

BLAM! The top of Gus' head BLOWS off. His BODY is thrown back by

the incredible force, tumbling him to the kitchen floor with a

HEAVY THUD.

Chase sucks in precious air, then his head snaps up.

EXT.  GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT

Chase stumbles from the house. It's a wonder he's even conscious.

He swings open the van door and throws himself inside, sinking the

key into the ignition.

INT.  ATTIC - NIGHT

Marjorie is now seated before Renee's theatrical make-up mirror,

entranced. She's wearing the beaded peach dress.

With the help of Renee's vast array of cosmetics, Marjorie has

turned herself into a stunning beauty.

The lipstick isn't quite right. Turning to the countertop

magnifying mirror, she carefully touches up her ruby red lips. Her

face fills nearly the entire mirror...

...except for one rim, which reflects the dark, shadowy attic

behind her.

A HUGE EYE joins her reflection in the distorting mirror. Marjorie

nearly jumps out of her skin. She spins around...

...but no one is there.

THE MAKE-UP MIRROR catches another glimpse. Renee's RED LIPS,

magnified tenfold. The lips begin to move...

Renee's fist swings in, SMASHING a panel of the mirror...

Marjorie raises her hands to protect herself against the flying

glass. And as her hands come down, she finds...

Renee standing before her. Her ghostly form silhouetted by

moonlight. Curtains billowing around her. We never fully see her.

Marjorie's face goes white with fear.

Renee grabs a fistful of Marjorie's hair, viciously YANKING her

head back...

Renee lashes out, SLASHING a mirror shard across the skin beneath

Marjorie's right eye. Marjorie SCREAMS.

INT.  GEOFF'S ROOM - NIGHT

Geoff awakens at the commotion upstairs. He rocks forward, rising

from his bed.

185   OMITTED

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Geoff pauses at the base of the attic stairway, looking up at the

open door. All he hears are the faint SOUNDS of movement.

Geoff starts up the stairs.

INT.  ATTIC - NIGHT

Geoff trepidatiously enters. He weaves through the maze of gauzy

curtains. And then he sees her...

Renee is standing in the midst of the attic. She's perfectly made

up. Gorgeous. Just as she was on the day she died. She smiles

warmly.

Renee raises her outstretched arms to receive him. Through the

haze of his tears, Geoff doesn't see the sinister, vacant gleam in

her eyes.

INT.  CHASE'S VAN - NIGHT

Reaching the house, Chase SKIDS to a stop across the lawn.

188B  OMITTED

INT.  ATTIC - NIGHT

Chase cautiously enters with the gun in his grasp. The spring coil

swings the CREAKING door shut behind him.

From Chase's vantage point, he can't see them yet. He makes his

way around the stripped dressmaker's model, past an upright

dressing mirror. And then he sees...

MARJORIE

Slumped against Renee's bed like a ragdoll. We can only see half

of her face. It looks untouched. Chase reaches for her...

Marjorie's head rolls sideways, exposing the other half of her

face. The skin has been stripped from her skull and peeled back...

Chase turns his head away. And that's when he sees them...

RENEE AND GEOFF

Holding each other tightly. Geoff has his head buried in Renee's

breast. Renee looks up from her son, meeting Chase's gaze. Her

voice is both seductive and terrifying.

Chase gasps. The word "horror" doesn't do the moment justice.

Chase sinks back against the wall. He's lost a lot of blood and

his strength is leaving him.

But Geoff just holds his mother tighter. A hint of annoyance

flickers through Renee's eyes. She strokes Geoff's hair.

Geoff looks up at his mother, mesmerized. She releases him from

the embrace. He brushes past Chase without a glance and heads for

the attic door.

Geoff pauses at the door, looking back. Renee's words have a

hauntingly familiar ring...

Geoff smiles. Turning away, he opens the door and...

CLYDE

is standing there, an AXE perched on his shoulder. His face is

torn to shit, bones and brain matter exposed. He's covered from

head to toe in dirt and clotted blood. He looks worse than any of

the undead we've seen. A total walking nightmare.

WHOOSH! Clyde swings the axe, sinking it into the wall just in

front of Geoff's face...

Geoff tumbles back onto the floor, snapping out of his trance.

Clyde brings the axe down...

...and Geoff rolls to the side, barely avoiding decapitation.

Chase stumbles forward to rescue his son. As he does so, Clyde

brings the axe back up, SMASHING Chase in the head with the blunt

end...

Chase goes down. Unconscious.

Clyde turns his gaze back on Geoff.

Geoff shuffles backwards across the floor as Clyde moves into the

room.

Renee passes behind Clyde. She SLAMS the attic door shut and snaps

off the knob with a jerk of the wrist, locking them all inside.

Scared out of his wits, Geoff makes it to his feet. Clyde swings

again and misses...

Geoff grabs hold of the axe handle, struggling, and the two boys

go down...

RENEE

Moves to the vanity. She sweeps a hand across it, sending

everything crashing to the ground. Crystal perfume bottles

SHATTER, spilling their contents over the floor.

Renee reaches for a lighter and flicks it on. She touches the

flame to the perfume-soaked floor...

FLAMES roar into existence, racing across the floorboards,

igniting the curtains...

We see the flames reflected in Renee's soulless eyes.

ON GEOFF AND CLYDE

As they wrestle with one another across the floor. Bloody spittle

drips from Clyde's face. He flashes a feral snarl.

Clyde LUNGES forward and tears into Geoff's shoulder with his

teeth...

Geoff SCREAMS. His hands grope blindly for a weapon and close on a

mirror shard. He JABS it up and into Clyde's eye...

Somehow, Geoff manages to roll out from under Clyde. He rises to

his feet...

Clyde lets loose a DEMONIC ROAR. He charges, SLASHING the axe

wildly, knocking aside curtains and dressing models alike.

Nothing's going to stop him. Nothing.

Flames are consuming the attic, licking the rafters, igniting the

canopy drapings... devouring everything. SMOKE is rolling across

the floor...

Geoff reaches a far wall. He's trapped in a corner. There's

nowhere else to go. Behind Geoff is a CIRCUIT BOX. INSULATED

CABLES run from the box down through the attic floor. Geoff

turns...

And here comes Clyde...

Clyde swings. Geoff ducks. The axe hits the circuit box behind

him, severing the insulated cables...

As Clyde rips the axe out of the wall for another try, Geoff

reaches for one of the SPARKING CABLES.

Clyde raises the axe above his head...

...and Geoff shoves the live cable into Clyde's mouth!

SPARKS shoot out of Clyde's eyes and ears. He jerks back and

forth, writhing in a horrific replay of Renee's electrocution.

Then Clyde's face BLOWS APART in a gout of ruined flesh and BLUE

FLAME. The circuit is blown and the SMOKING BODY falls...

Geoff drops the cable. The blazing inferno is closing in. He runs

to Chase...

Chase is barely conscious. Geoff drops to his knees and pulls his

father to his feet...

Geoff turns...

RENEE

is standing in the midst of the FLAMES, reaching out. The make-up

and mortician's wax she wears fall victim to the heat and her

"face" begins to MELT AWAY...

Geoff turns away, horrified. With Chase on his shoulder, he

reaches the door. Locked. Geoff sets Chase against the wall.

He spots the AXE, still clutched in Clyde's hand. Geoff drags the

axe free from the dead boy's grasp and goes to work on the door...

Ignoring Renee's CRIES, Geoff swings the axe again and again,

chopping the door apart. He coughs through the smoke. The flames

are almost upon them...

Finally, the wood splinters apart. Geoff reaches through and

grasps the outside handle, pulling the door open. Then he turns

and lifts Chase up once more...

At the door, Geoff pauses for one final, tearful look back. Then

his face hardens and he turns away, pulling Chase to safety.

ON RENEE

Alone in the fiery storm, SCREAMING. Flames devour her flowing

white dress. Her face doesn't even look remotely human anymore.

And as the inferno slowly closes in, we...

EXT.  VETERINARY OFFICE - DAY

We PULL OUT from a sign on the door that says "CLOSED".

Chase is just now locking up the door. He's bandaged up, looking a

little worse for the wear, but happy to be alive. He turns,

grinning...

GEOFF

stands near the van, holding Tiger in his arms.

Chase joins Geoff at the van and together they climb inside. Chase

starts the engine, pulling away from the office.

WE STAY ON THE VAN -

As it moves off down the street, passing the familiar landmarks of

sleepy Ludlow.

RISING UP -

We follow the van as it sweeps out of town. Ludlow looks picture-

perfect from our bird's eye vantage point. Charming and quiet.

We continue rising up into the brilliant blue sky, losing the van

amidst the rolling Maine countryside and we

EXT.  MICMAC FOREST - DAY

RUSHING over the woods, just above the tree tops. It's an ocean of

swaying green beneath us. A forest as ancient and mysterious as

anything on the Earth.

AND SUDDENLY -

The endless trees fall out from under us. We find ourselves above

the flattop mesa of the Micmac burial ground, swooping downward...

The ground surges towards us. We see Renee's OPEN GRAVE.

The quality of light is different now. We hear the wail of the

LONESOME WIND, and perhaps, the WHISPER of something altogether

alien.

And on the unsettling note, we...

THE END

