EXT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY

SUPER: April 27, 1973

All is quiet outside this suburban school on a sunny

Friday afternoon. Cars idle in the driveway awaiting

the three o'clock onslaught of liberated children.

Two faded yellow buses stand ready.

The lull is shattered by the CLANGING of the final BELL.

A swarm of children pours out the door and down the

broad front steps, scattering across the lawn toward

the cars and the buses.

Moving slowly through the crowd, ROBIN and ALEX HAMMOND,

nine-year-old identical twins, appear at the doorway..

Attractive, dark-haired children, they seem more sub-

dued than the others. As they walk quietly down the

stairs, Robin lags behind, staring at a boy teasing a

girl nearby. He is NICK MCBRIDE, eleven years old,

two grades ahead of Robin and the most popular boy in

school. The pretty girl laughing at his antics is KIM

HAMMOND, also eleven, Robin's older sister.

C'mon, Robin.

W-w-where's D-d-daddy?

He's got a meeting at the high

school. We're supposed to walk

home with Kim...

(sees Robin watching

the young couple)

She's too busy. Let's go

by ourselves.

N-n-n-no, Alex. Let's w-w-wait.

Why?

Robin is staring at Nick. Alex looks, understands.

He's angry.

You're crazy, I'm not waiting.

He strides away. Robin's eyes remain on Nick and Kim.

Nick says something to Kurt. She shakes her head and

pains toward Robin. Robin quickly turns away as they

look at her.. When she glances back, Ki_m is walking

towards her and Nick is bicycling away.

Okay, let's go.

The sisters start to walk across the lawn.

Y-you 1-1-like him?

Who?

Y-you know.

Nick? Oh, he's all right, I guess.

They walk on in silence with Robin stealing glances at

her big sister.

Are y-y-you g-gonna m-in-marry him?

Robin?

Robin smiles and takes Kim's hand. They walk along the

road, kicking rocks and swinging their bookbags. Sud-

denly Kim halts.

Oh, damn!

Robin looks up in surprise.

Debbie was gonna lend me her new

record. Look, you go on home

by yourself. Tell Mom I'll be

a little late.

Before Robin can reply, Kim is hurrying away.

3.

CONTINUED! (2)

Robin watches her go, then moves off alone, breaking

into a skip and playing imaginary hopscotch.

As she turns off the main road into a side street,

Robin passes a construction site. The empty skeleton

of a half-finished apartment building looms up above

the dark shade trees. Hearing VOICES, Robin stops to

investigate.

Alex?

The VOICES continue. Robin moves closer, peering

through the tall bushes surrounding the lot. She

sees Nick playing in.the framework with three of his

classmates. Robin recognizes JUDE CUNNINGHAM, and

KELLY LYNCH as Kim's two best friends. The fourth

child, WENDY RICHARDS, is a dark-haired girl, domin-

eering and loud. As Robin watches, Wendy jumps

up onto the floor of the building.

I want to play 'Murder.' Who's

the killer?

You, Wendy!

you, Nick.

Yes, Nick!

You'll never catch me. Hide your

eyes, killer!

As Nick turns his back, hiding his eyes against an ex-

posed beam, the children scatter through the structure.

Robin watches with mounting excitement as Nick finishes

counting, and whirls around.

The killer is coming for you!

He moves into the building, chanting "Kill, kill.," in a

low monotone. As he disappears from view, Robin cau-

tiously edges out of the bushes and moves up to the

building.

NICK (O.S.

The killer strikes!

4.

Robin hears Jude's SQUEAL of LAUGHTER. Nick has caught

her. Immediately Jude's VOICE TAKES UP the "kill"

chant in unison with Nick.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING UNDER CONSTRUCTION - DAY 2

Robin climbs up onto the floor and peers into the dark,

gloomy structure. Suddenly, she hears a SHRIEK. Ter-

rified, she backs against a wall. LAUGHTER FOLLOWS im-

mediately and Robin hears Kelly's VOICE TAKING UP the

chant. As the three "killers" move through the vast

structure searching for Wendy, "KILL, KILT" ECHOES off

the walls and hardwood floors.

Robin cautiously steps out of the doorway into the im-

mense unfinished lobby. Ominous shadows slash across

the floor as the excited girl listens to the relentless

CHANTING of the children.

Robin pushes on a makeshift wooden door. It slips off

its temporary hinges, crashing down to the floor. The

NOISE is like a rifle shot; suddenly, there is ABSOLUTE

SILENCE in the structure.

Petrified, Robin crouches behind a wall, waiting. The

CHANTING quickly RESUMES and she breathes a long sigh

of relief.

Robin moves through a dark corridor, hugging the walls.

Flushed with excitement, she imagines herself a "killer"

searching for Wendy. As she moves past an empty room,

she hears a SOFT GIGGLE. Robin stops and listens care-

fully. Once again she hears the GIGGLE, LOUDER this

time, coming from nearby.

Stepping to a doorway, she leans around the corner and

peers inside. In the darkness she can see nothing.

Gathering her courage, she quietly slips into the room.

The room appears empty but a closet door is slightly

ajar. As Robin approaches, she hears a FAINT GASP from

behind her. Whirling around, she sees Wendy crouched

behind a cardboard box in the corner.

You better not tell!

Before Robin can react, she hears a THUD from above.

Looking up, she sees Nick's head appear through an

opening in the ceiling. Seeing Robin, then Wendy

standing in the corner, he howls in triumph.

5.

Here, killers, here!

Nick's head disappears from the opening and Robin hears

the POUNDING of RUNNING FEET.

Now you've done it, you idiot!

The CHANTING GROWS LOUDER as the "killers" rush towards

the room. Trapped, Wendy looks frantically for an es-

cape but finds nothing. Turning around suddenly, she

grins at Robin, a cruel, hard expression on her face.

Kill, kill, kill...

Picking up the chant, Wendy begins to advance on Robin.

Terrified, Robin turns and rushes out of the room,

bowling over Nick in the doorway. Delighted that the

game is continuing with a new victim, he follows Wendy

in pursuit of Robin.

Robin flees down the long, dark corridor, "KILL, KILL

ECHOING in her wake. As she rounds a corner, Jude ap-

pears, looming up in front of her. Robin screams and

sprints in the opposite direction. Kelly leaps out of

a doorway and grabs for her, but Robin, swinging out

blindly, escapes the "killer."

INT. STORAGE ROOM - DAY 3

Darting into the large room, Robin collapses against a

wall, gasping for breath. As her eyes adjusts to the

darkness, she spies a rickety ladder extending through

a hole in the floor to the basement below. Stacked up-

right near the opening are several sheets of window

glass. Before Robin can make a move towards the lad-

der, she hears a horrible SCREECH and Wendy appears in

the doorway, a vicious look on her face.

Killers, here!

Wendy advances. Terrified, Robin begins to back away.

N-n-n-no!

6.

Nick, Jude and Kelly appear in the doorway, chanting

"Kill, kill." Moving quickly, Robin grabs the ladder

and starts down into the basement, careful not to knock

over the sheets of glass stacked near the opening.

Peering into the pitch-black basement, Robin hesitates.

But as Wendy and her fellow "killers" close in on her,

Robin continues down the ladder. Wendy rushes up and

grabs the ladder.

P-p-please!

Wendy grins and shakes the ladder. The chanting is

deafening. Robin hugs the wooden slats. Wendy shakes

even harder. Robin screams. Nick moves around Wendy

to get a better look. He accidentally bumps the glass

stacked next to the opening. The sudden movement is

just enough to dislodge a razor-sharp pane of glass and

send it hurtling down directly at Robin.

The girl's last scream catches in her throat as the

glass slices through her neck. She is instantly

decapitated.

Horrified, Wendy watches the glass and the body crash

to the concrete basement floor. Kelly screams. Jude

sobs loudly. Nick can only stare in shock. Finally,

he manages to speak.

We gotta get somebody quick!

Nick starts to go. Wendy instantly whirls, grabs his

arm.

Are you crazy? They'll put us in

jail!

Confused, Nick cannot reply. The other girls grow

silent.

If we tell anyone, they'll say

it's our fault. Who'd believe it

was an accident?

Nick starts to protest.

Listen to me!

7.

We'll go home now and never ever

tell anyone. They'll think it was

an accident. 1,10 one but us will

ever know.

She looks at each of them. They are still too numb to

respond.

Everybody swear never to tell!

Wendy glares at Jude.

Jude?

I swear.

Kelly?

Kelly looks from Wendy to the mangled body and begins

to whimper.

Kelly!

The frightened girl looks up at Wendy.

I don't wanta go to jail...

Swear!

I swear.

Wendy turns to Nick. At first he appears defiant, ready

to object, but he wilts under her withering gaze.

I won't tell.

Good.

With a final glance down at Robin's mutiliated body,

Wendy quickly ushers her shocked friends out of the

room.

As their FOOTSTEPS ECHO away across the hardwood floor,

there is a terrible silence. Then, starting very

quietly, more FOOTSTEPS are HEARD, this time a single

person approaching the ladder from above. The FOOT-

STEPS STOP and a deep, black shadow falls across the

ladder; HEAVY BREATHING punctuates the oppressive

quiet, growing louder and more anguished.

INT. STORAGE ROOM - DUSK

We slowly TILT UP TO the tortured features of RAYMOND

HAMMOND, Robin's father. A handsome, dark-haired man

in his late thirties, he teaches history at George

Winston High School.

Wracked with grief, he stands near the opening in the

floor and watches as two Paramedics bring up the body

of his daughter from the dark basement.

A young Policeman standing nearby raises the white

sheet covering Robin's remains. Hammond steps up

and gazes at his daughter's decapitated body. A

look of absolute horror and revulsion freezes

on his face; what he sees he will never forget.

Paralyzed, Hammond barely hears the CAR PULLING UP

in front of the construction site. He turns and

looks out the window.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING UNDER CONSTRUCTION - DUSK 5

A Police Officer is getting out of his car. Walking

around to the passenger side, he opens the door

for an attractive blonde woman in her mid-thirties.

VIVIAN HANMOND, Robin's mother, appears pale and

haggard as she steps out of the car. Kim and Alex

slowly climb out of the back, With the Police Officer

escorting her, Vivian and her children move toward

the skeleton of a building.

Catching sight of her husband framed in a lower window,

Vivian suddenly breaks. away from the Police Officer and

runs inside the building.

INT. STORAGE ROOM - DUSK

Hammond moves quickly to the door, grabbing his

hysterical wife as she bursts into the room.

No!

Where is she? Where is Robin?

Seeing the covered figure lying on a stretcher, Vivian

moans in anguish.

Struggling furiously, she strains to break her hus-

band's hold, but he is too powerful.. They are both

in tears, shaking with grief, when Kim and Alex step

into the doorway.

Daddy?

(angrily,

Why did you bring them here?

Vivian collapses, burying her head in his shoulder

and sobbing furiously, but Hammond pushes her out of

the room.

HA ` 0 N D

Kim! Alex! Stay out in the

hallway!

Kim stumbles out into the corridor and begins to

cry softly. Alex takes his mother's hand and tries

comfort her.

The Paramedics pick up the stretcher and maneuver it

out of the room. As they pass through the doorway into

the corridor, a corner of the sheet slips off Robin's

corpse. Before a Paramedic can replace it, the de-

capitated torso is briefly glimpsed by the family.

Alex is shocked. Kim doesn't appear to realize what

she sees. But Vivian's horror wells up in her

throat, bursting out in a deranged scream.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Another SCREAM, as throbbing DISCO MUSIC pulsates from

a large portable RADIO sitting on a dresser.

SUPER: APRIL 27, 1980.

A young woman with long, golden brown hair and a trim

figure is slipping into a pair of tight jeans. Pull-

ing on a halter top, she sways to the MUSIC.

VIVIAN (O.S.)

Kim! Turn that music down. You're

driving me crazy!

Turning around at the SOUND of her mother's VOICE, Kim

Hammond reaches for the volume control Now eighteen,

she is a strikingly beautiful girl with an open,

innocent quality.

Okay, Mom!

Kim quickly finishes dressing, whirling around the room

to the pounding disco rhythm. Giving her hair a few

final strokes with a brush, she gazes at a photograph

of a young man stuck in her mirror. On the picture

is written: "To Kim, the best on the floor... dancing,

that is! Love, Nick."

Kim glances at another photograph stuck in her mirror.

This one shows her sister, Robin, taken a few days be-

fore the accident. Her sadness passes as quickly as it

came. Gathering her textbooks, she switches OFF the

RADIO and exits.

8 INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Raymond and Vivian Hammond are just finishing break-

fast. The years have favored him; except for a touch

of gray around the temples and a few extra pounds, he

looks much the same way as we remember him. Vivian,

however, wears the strain of the past seven years

in her gaunt, drawn features and high-strung manner.

Thumbing through his morning newspaper, Hammond steals

quick glances at his wife. She does not look up at

him, but stares at the table, toying with her spoon.

(reading the paper)

I'll tell you, Vi, I'm thinking

of starting up an armed robbery

course at the high school..

I've got a feeling it'd be

popular...

He smiles at his joke, looks at her. She doesn't seem

to have heard him.

I just hope there's no trouble

at the prom tonight...

Kim bursts into the kitchen, interrupting her father

with a kiss on the head.

Mmmm, sounds like fun!

And how is the next queen of the

Winston High Junior-Senior Prom?

Scared tiff.

She leans over to kiss her mother. Vivian automatical-

ly turns her cheek to Kim without looking at her.

Morning, Mom. We got any yogurt?

No, dear. Fix yourself a good

meal. You're getting awfully

thin.

Kim and her father exchange glances. He shrugs

who's your lucky escort tonight?

You know, Daddy... Nick.

1L,

I've been trying to forget. The

boy's too sure of himself.

Mom, tell him...

Seven years ago today.

Hammond carefully folds his paper and places it on the

table.

(affects a casual

Vi, I made you an appointment with

Dr. Fairchild.

Vivian finally looks up at him.

It's this morning, actually.

Sorry I forgot to mention it.

Today?

You'd better get ready. He's

fitting you in early before his

other... people.

It doesn't help. You know that!

Now, Vi...

Vivian stumbles to her feet and rushes out of the kitch-

en before he can finish. With a glance at Kim, Hammond

hurries after his wife. Going out through the swinging

door, he bumps into a young man just entering.

Morning, Alex.

1J.

Hammond exits. Alex, now sixteen, a tall, slender

boy, casts a knowing look at Kim. Kim nods. Alex.

shakes his head, then begins to rummage through the

Pantry, pulling out a Hostess viTikie. ?lopping

down at the table, he flips open his electronics book

and begins to read. Munching on his Twinkie, he

swipes sips from Kim's glass of milk.

Have you got a date for tonight?

His mouth crammed.full of Twinkie, Alex mumbles his

reply.

I happen to know Jude might be

available. Of course, she is older,

but...

Alex almost chokes.

C'mon, Kimbo, I may be hard up...

Alex! Jude's cute... Besides,

she's funny and really smart.

Give you somebody to do equations

with!

Great... Anyway, I'm in charge of

the sound system tonight.

Not bad but it's not romance.

It'll do for tonight.

Kim shoots him a look, then backs off.

If you get a chance, dance with

Jude once or twice, okay?

Sure.

He returns her glass of milk, empty.

Any more milk?

9 INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Hammond and Vivian are standing by the fireplace. His

hand is on her shoulder. She faces the mantel, her

back to him. On the mantel is a small shrine to the

memory oftheir dead daughter; a framed photograph,

fresh roses, two candles and a lock of her hair in a

glass case.

Trust me.

Vivian does not move. Finally, after a long pause,

she turns toward her husband. Her eyes filled with

tears, she nods.

10 INT. CAR (MOVING) - DAY 10

Hammond is driving. Vivian stares blankly out the win-

dow at the grimy city streets. Sitting in the back,

Kim and Alex exchange uncertain glances. A tense si-

lence pervades.

11 EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 11

The Hammonds' car pulls up in front of a towering

modern building.

12 INT. CAR - DAY 12

Hammond cuts off the engine and turns to Kim and Alex.

I'll just be a minute...

Vivian is already reaching for the door handle,

13 EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 13

Alex jumps out of the car and opens the door for his

mother. Taking her arm, he helps her out. Kim leans

over in the back seat.

See you later,'Mom.

Vivian gives her a thin smile. Hammond takes her arm

and leads her into the imposing building.

15.

14 INT. LOBBY - DAY 14

Hammond and Vivian cross the room. Though she offers

no resistance, it appears he is pulling her along.

They hurry into an elevator after an elderly CLEANING

WOMAN carrying a mop and a bucket.

15 INT. ELEVATOR - DAY 15

They stand in silence. The Cleaning Woman puffs on a

cigarette, blithely ignoring the NO SMOKING sign posted

on the wall. Vivian nervously reaches into her purse

and removes a bottle of Valium. Quickly popping two

pills into her mouth, she swallows with difficulty and

snaps her purse shut. Hammond says nothing.

Just as the elevator doors slide open, the Cleaning Wo-

man touches Vivian on the shoulder, causing her to jump

in fright.

Could I have one of those? My

nerves are shot this morning.

With a terrified glance back at the woman, Vivian

rushes out of the elevator. Hammond follows.

16 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 16

Hammond and Vivian move down the long, empty hallway.

As they round a corner, a figure is visible unlocking

a door.

Dr. Fairchild!

DR. RUPERT FAIRCHILD straightens up and turns around.

He's a. portly man in his fifties, trying to disguise

his girth with careful tailoring.

17 INT. OFFICE - DAY 17

Fairchild bustles about the reception area, turning on

lights, checking his messages and appointment calendar.

Fairchild is obsessively neat, the office reflects him.

We appreciate your seeing... us.

I know how busy you must be.

Vivian is staring at a painting of a young girl playing

with a kitten. Catching Fairchild's eye, Hammond nods

toward the outer door. Vivian does not notice the

gesture.

Fairchild nods in return. Stepping over to his inner

office, he opens the door.

Have a seat, Vivian. I'll be

right in.

She slowly crosses the room, turning suddenly in the

doorway.

Don't forget we're going to the

cemetery this afternoon. I want

Robin to have her flowers.

Hammond moves over to his wife. Taking her by the

shoulders, he kisses her lightly on the forehead.

I won't forget.

Vivian looks from Hammond to Fairchild, who smiles.

She enters the office, leaving the door open. Hammond

shakes hands with Fairchild, and for Vivian's benefit

adds...

HAi12I`i IOND

Thank you, Doctor.

Hammond exits.

18 , INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 18

Hammond leans against the wall outside Fairchild's of-

fice. He glances at his watch. The door opens and

Fairchild steps out, holding a container. Hammond

walks with him down the corridor towards the water

fountain.

H.ANMOND

She's at it again.

Today's the date?

Seven years ago today Robin was

killed.

Fairchild looks up from filling his container with

water.

17.

HA,E,10ND

This would have been her first prom.

Pardon?

Tonight's the Junior-Senior Prom

at our high school. Robin would

have been sixteen, She and Alex.

The twins... How is Alex?

Fine. I just thank God he was too

young to really understand what

happened to his sister.

And your older daughter?

Kimmy's my princess. Sometimes she'll

get depressed for a while... but it

never lasts long. Young people seem

so much more... resilient.

They walk back to the office.

(looking up at Hammond)

And yourself? No scars?

(after a pause)

I've learned to live them..

Vivian seems worse this time.

The persistence of Vivian's trauma.

I wonder if there isn't something

more serious at work here?

Something more serious than her

daughter's death?

19 INT. OFFICE - DAY 19

Vivian fidgets in her chair. She seems very small and

vulnerable in the large, somber office.

18.

20 INT. CAR (MOVING) DAY 20

Alex is seated opposite his father in the front seat.

Kim is in back. Easy listening MUSIC PLAYS softly on

the car RADIO. Alex fiddles with the tuning dial,

searching for music more to his tastes. Lost in

thought, Hammond does not see the young girl skipping

through the pedestrian crossing.

Daddy!

Hammond slams on the brakes, throwing Alex against

the dashboard.

21 EXT. STREET - DAY 21

The CAR SCREECHES to a halt inches away from the terri-

fied child who stands frozen in the middle of the

crossing. After a moment, realizing she is safe, the

girl giggles nervously and skips away.

22 INT. CAR - DAY 22

Hammond lets out a sigh and turns to his children.

You all right?

They both nod. Alex massages his wrist. Hammond

slips the car into gear and cautiously continues

driving.

You're worried about Mom?

I was...

He is interrupted by DISCO MUSIC ON the RADIO. Play-

ing with the tuning dial, Alex quickly tries to pass

over the music.

Hey, keep that!

Alex groans but does as she asks.

Disco sucks!

Alex!

19.

Disco bites it!

That's much better.

The car pulls into the Winston High School parking lot.

They pile out.

23 EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY 23

SOUND coming from nearby. The sudden noise startles

Kim and she huddles against her father.

A seedy little middle-aged man with a stubble of gray

beard appears from behind a row of bushes, brandishing

a pair of electric hedge clippers.

Good morning, Mr. Sykes.

SANFORD SYKES, the newly-hired custodian, bares his

yellow teeth in a crooked grin and waves the whirring

blades in salute. Kim shudders and stays close to

her father as they walk on.

He's creepy.

I heard he's wacko.

The man is not... wacko.

Kelly says he's a pervert, spying

on the girls undressing in the

locker room.

Sykes may have some problems, but

he's no Peeping Tom. He's been

thoroughly checked out.

20,

They climb the broad front steps of the high school.

Hammond glances at his watch.

You're early today. Plenty of

time to study with no one to

bother you.

Kim reaches up.and kisses her father on the cheek.

Pulling out a fashion magazine, she rushes off, call-

ing back over her shoulder.

I'.ve got to decide on my hair

style for tonight.

Wonderful. Alex?

I'm building an atomic bomb in

shop.

Smiling, he moves inside. Hammond shakes his head

and hurries off.

24 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 24

Hammond moves through the empty hallway, stopping at

a door which reads: PRINCIPAL: RAYMOND HAMMOND. He

is fumbling for his key when he sees through the

frosted glass a figure moving around in his office.

Reaching for the doorknob, he very quietly opens the

door.

25 INT. OFFICE DAY 25

As the door slowly swings open, Hammond sees the outer

office covered with pieces of paper; sheets are

scattered across desks and chairs and over most of

the floor. Stepping inside, Hammond spies a WOMAN

bending over, frantically picking up paper from the

floor.

He slams the door. At the sudden SOUND, the startled

Woman whirls around, still squatting, and falls on her

rear.

Who are you?

21.

Flustered, the attractive young Woman hastily gets to

her feet and straightens her skirt.

Oh God! They told me you wouldn't

be in till nine!

What're you doing, robbing me?

Oh... no, I'm your Working Girl

Hammond stares, wide-eyed.

your temporary secretary.

What's-her-name is sick.

(extends her hand)

Hi. I'm Adele.

(taking her hand)

What happened?

Well you see, Mr. Hammond, the,

air conditioner fan was set for

high but...

Please, Miss... Adele,

Cooper... Ms. Cooper.

Whatever! I have some important

calls to make. Please see that I'm

not disturbed...

(wades through the

papers to his inner

, and put all this back where it

belongs!

He enters his office.

26 INT. HA,1NI OND' S OFFICE - DAY 26

Hammond tosses his briefcase onto the desk and drops

into his chair. He stares at the telephone for a long

moment, drumming his finger on the desk.

27 INT. BEDROOM - DAY 27

A pink TELEPHONE RINGS. The plush bedroom is empty;

suddenly Wendy Richards rushes in. Now eighteen, Wendy

is a raven-haired beauty with a full figure, accentua-

ted by a low-cut black blouse and tight designer jeans.

Tossing her books onto the bed, she eagerly grabs the

receiver.

Nick?

A long pause, followed by HEAVY BREATHING. Wendy is

about to respond when the inhuman VOICE speaks in an

eerie, androgynous stutter.

W-Wendy? T-t-tonight it's m-m-my

t-turn!

Wendy's shock quickly turns to anger.

Screw you, Lou!

Wendy slams the receiver into its cradle. Grabbing her

books, she storms out of her bedroom.

28 INT. FRONT HALL - DAY 28

Wendy hurries do-in the ornate staircase.

Waiting at the bottom holding the girl's sweater is

MAUDE, the Richards' elderly housekeeper.

You be home for dinner, Wendy?

Wendy angrily grabs her sweater from the woman.

How the hell do I know?

She exits.

L3.

29 EXT. RICHARD'S HOUSE - DAY 29

The expansive residence sits back off the road in this

upper-middle-class suburb. Wendy climbs into her

white Mustang and starts the engine. TIRES SQUEALING,

she ROARS out of the driveway with the RADIO BLASTING.

30 INT. KITCHEN - DAY 30

Kelly Lynch is just finishing breakfast when the

TELEPHONE RINGS. The petite blonde eighteen-year-old

stuffs a last bite of toast into her mouth and picks

up the receiver.

Hullo?

A pause, then HEAVY BREATHING. Kelly's eyes grow wide

as the dreadful voice speaks.

K-K-Kelly? T-tonight it's m-m-i12IZ

Horrified, Kelly drops the phone. The DOORBELL RINGS.

Frightened, she gasps, hugging the wall. The DOORBELL

RINGS again. Very slowly she moves out of the kitchen.

31 INT. HALL - DAY 31

Kelly cautiously approaches the front door. Peering

through a crack in the drapes, she sees a dark figure

huddled near the door. With the latch secured, she

takes a deep breath and opens the door.

Yes?

DREW (O.S.)

Christ, Kelly, c'mon! We're late!

Relief floods across her face. Kelly quickly unfastens

the latch.

Oh, Drew, thank God!

She throws herself into the arms of the pleasantly sur-

prised DREW SHINNICK, a muscular blond athlete.

(holding her tightly)

I'm glad to see you, too.

24.

She looks up at him.

Drew, this horrible -voice...

Nightmare?

On the telephone. It sounded so

evil!

What'd you get, a heavy breather?

Worse than that...

Turned you on did he? Maybe I

should try that!

She breaks from his grasp.

'm serious!

Drew makes a grab for her but she avoids him, hurries

inside. He sighs and leans against the doorjamb to

wait.

So am I.,.

32 INT. CAR (MOVING) - DAY 32

Drew is driving, his-arm around Kelly. She still

appears shaken by the telephone call. The RADIO is ON.

His right hand slowly descends towards her breast.

She swats it away. The hand moves to her back, slid-

ing down. She leans back, pinning his arm against the

seat.

The car stops at a light and Drew is instantly on Kelly,

biting her neck and kissing her hard on the mouth. She

pushes him back.

I thought we were late.

We'll get there... eventually.

Really?

Drew HONKS the HORN at another driver.

Hell, you should be glad. A lot

of girls would love to have

someone steady like me.

His irrepressible right hand starts up her leg.

Steady? You mean persistent,

don't you, darling?

Grabbing his hand, she holds it firmly in her lap,

which doesn't bother Drew at all.

33 INT. HALL - DAY

Jude Cunningham is leaving her house when the TELE-

PHONE RINGS. The chubby, brown-haired girl rushes

back into the hallway.

A plump, middle-aged woman hurries out of the kitchen,

wiping her hands on an apron. MRS. CUNNINGHAM

eagerly watches her daughter snap up the receiver.

The pause, the HEAVY BREATHING and the strange,

terrifying voice.

J-Jude? T-t-tonight it's my-my

t-t-turn!

A disappointed Jude slowly replaces the receiver. Mrs.

Cunningham looks on sympathetically.

Still no date?

(shakes her head)

Getting closer, though.

26.

An obscene call... and not very

obscene at that!

Mrs. Cunningham starts to say something.

Sorry, Mom, gotta run.

Giving her mother a quick peck on the cheek, Jude

exits.

34 EXT. CUNNINGHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

The small house appears almost identical to the other

dwellings in this lower-middle-class neighborhood. Jude

pulls an apple from her large purse, munching while

she walks to the bus stop.

A gaudily-painted van pulls up alongside her. The win-

dow slowly rolls down and a young curly-haired GUY

wearing glasses sticks out his head.

Hey, beautiful, need a lift?

Jude continues walking, the van moving slowly alongside

her.

No thanks.

C'mon, I won't bite.

Jude chomps down hard on her apple.

So who are you?

TheGuy leans further out the window.

Seymour Stone but..

He's cut short as the van bounces up onto the sidewalk.

Jude shrieks. The flustered boy steers the van quickly

back onto the road.

27.

but they call me Slick!

Jude laughs, almost choking on her apple.

I can see why... How old are you,

Slick?

Old enough...

I've heard about guys like you...

running over girls on the sidewalk...

Just some girls... If they're good

lookin' I give 'em a ride.

Can you stop that thing?

Slick jams on the brakes. The van jerks to a halt.

He opens the passenger door.

I'm going straight to Winston High,

understand?

Straight to Winston.

She climbs inside.

35 INT. VAN (MOVING- DAY 35

The interior is decked out in plush red carpet with a

bed in back, a stereo cassette deck, and a small fridge.

MUSIC is PLAYING. Jude looks around.

Looks like a cheap motel.

Cheap?... that's a two hundred

dollar waterbed there...

Jude turns around for a look.

Hand me that history book.

You think this is the time to study?

She grabs the book, gives it to him. He places it on

the fold-down table between them, flips it open. The

inside is hollowed out into a container. It contains

nearly a hundred neatly rolled joints.

Straight to Winston High?

36 EXT. SCHOOL PARKING LOT DAY

The van weaves through the parked cars, passing up

several vacant spots. It finally SCREECHES to a halt

at the far end of the lot near some high bluffs over-

looking a lake.

37 INT. VAN

The air is thick with smoke.

How old are you, really?

You won't believe it...

Sixteen!

I believe it.

They both break up giggling.

You going to the prom tonight?

Jude looks away, embarrassed.

Sure, of course.

Not me. My date got sick.

LV.

Yeah? Well, as a matter of fact..

My date is uh, not that certain...

Something might be happening, he's

not sure, you know?

Yeah, right...

Jude watches him. He's slow picking up her hint.

So I guess we're both maybe not

going...

Yeah... too bad...

He looks at her.

Hey, you think...

I'd love to!

She kisses him on the cheek.

See you at eight, same spot!

She exits, hurrying across the parking lot as he grins

foolishly after her. Suddenly, it dawns on him.

What's your name?

38 INT. APARTMENT LIVING ROOM - DAY 38

A tall rugged-looking man wearing a police uniform

stands in ,the center of the room checking over his

revolver. He's DARRYL McBRIDE, forty-eight years old

and a veteran Sergeant on the Police Force. Satisfied

with the condition of the gun, he jams it back into its

holster, turns, calls out.

30.

Let's go, son!

A handsome dark-haired boy of eighteen emerges from a

back room. He's Nick McBride. His father pulls open

the front door.

For a guy who moves so fast around

a disco floor, you are the slowest

goddamn thing...

Nick nods sleepily, yawns.

Right, I know...

McBride steps out into the hallway. Nick grabs his

books and follows. The TELEPHONE RINGS. Nick hesi-

tates. Shaking his head he exits, shutting the door.

39 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

The TELEPHONE keeps RINGING. McBride looks at his son.

Why didn't you answer i

It's just Wendy. She's pissed off.

She wants me to take her to the

prom tonight.

I thought you two broke up.

The TELEPHONE continues to RING.

Three months ago... you can't tell

Wendy anything she doesn't want to

hear.

Aren't you going with the Hammond

girl? The principal's daughter?

Kim.

God, I wish I had your women

problems.

They walk down the corridor as the TELEPHONE continues

to RING.

40 INT. SCHOOL SHOP - DAY 40

Alex is alone in the large room. ROCK MUSIC BOOMS out

of two huge SPEAKERS suspended from the ceiling. Alex

sits behind a console, flipping switches and turning

dials, electronically distorting the music.

A wall TELEPHONE RINGS.. Caught up in his own manufac-

tured sounds, Alex ignores it. After several more

RINGS, he reluctantly leaves the console and answers

the phone.

Hello... what?...

He listens, expressionless, then hangs up. He flips

a switch on the console and the MUSIC STOPS. He sits

there a moment, thinking. Then he turns out the lights

and exits.

41 INT. SCHOOL CORRIDOR - DAY 41

Kim walks down the long deserted corridor. She hears

FOOTSTEPS. She turns. No one. Shaking her head, she

continues walking.

The FOOTSTEPS return, louder. Kim begins to hurry.

She rounds a corner and slips against the wall, waiting.

Silence. With a deep breath, she moves on to her

locker.

Kim quickly twists the dial on the combination lock and

yanks open the door. Grabbing several books she slams

the door shut.

A mop HANDLE CRASHES into the locker, missing her head

by inches. The SHARP REPORT echoes down the corridor.

Terrified, Kim jumps back, spins around. Sykes is

standing there.

S-s-sorry, Missy. You hurt?

Her heart pounding wildly, Kim rushes into the gym.

Sykes picks up his mop.

42, INT. DAY 42

Kim runs into the huge deserted gym, glancing frantical-

ly over her shoulder. Her FOOTSTEPS CLATTER across the

hardwood floor. She stops, waits to recover her breath.

The room glows tgith a crystalline light sparkling off

the silver decorations put up for the Prom. Stretched

across the bleachers is a banner reading: "DISCO

MADNESS."

Gazing around, Kim feels the excitement of anticipation.

Imagining herself in Nick's arms, she begins to dance,

whirling through the gym to the music in her head.

Suddenly, someone is clapping, slowly.

WENDY (O.S.)

Bravo...

Kim stops abruptly. Standing onstage, watching her, is

Wendy.

Practicing for tonight?

Yes, as a matter of fact... I was

just...

Thinking about Nick, maybe?

That's my business.

You wish! Nick is King of the

Prom, you happen to be Queen of

the Prom... that's all there is to

it, Hammond... As far as anything

else... Nick is mine...

You really ought to tell him that.

I'm telling you, okay? Stay away

from Nick!

You and Nick haven't been together

in ages.

You know nothing about it!

Really? So who are you going with

tonight?

It's not who you go with, honey...

it's who takes you home.

I'll try and remember that.

Wait and see, bitch... Just wait

and see...

43 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 43

The corridor is packed with students -- flirting,

gossiping, fighting, a few even studying. We PICK UP

Kim and VICKI CANTRELL, eighteen, moving down the crowd-

ed hallway through the various conversations.

: So then she threatened me.

Wendy's a jerk!

She didn't!

Swear to God!

In the teachers' lounge?

Dual headers... thinks he's a

fox... Dust'll run you... long and

slinky and tight... swings like my

mother... how much for half a lid?

Jude joins Kim and Vicki as they walk.

guys.

Jude.

34.

Missed you on the bus today.

I didn't ride it.

I thought you were too big to hide.

Vicki...

I got a ride.

Who with?

None of your business.

A guy.

Vicki and Kim are left hanging, waiting for more.

Jude!

Jude can hold it back no longer.

I'm going to the prom!

Kim. and Vicki excitedly hug Jude. A big, bushy-haired

youth with a stubble of beard strolls by, smirking when

he sees the girls embracing. LOU PERANO, a twenty-year-

old high school junior, stops and stares.

I knew there was some reason Kim

wouldn't go out with me. She likes

girls!

The girls separate.

Say goodbye, Lou.

(to Vicki and Jude)

Let's go.

They head down the hallway to their lockers. Lou tags

along.

You girls get bored with each

other, I'm always around, you know?

They pass Kelly and Drew huddled at her locker. His

hands rest on her shoulders. They are talking intently.

Poor girl must be exhausted. Look

how he has to hold her up...

(sees Nick approaching

Uh oh.

Kim stops suddenly and turns to look. Lou bumps into

her, his hand purposely grazing her rear.

Go play with yourself, Lou.

I'm saving it for you.

Kim sighs with disgust and turns around as Nick walks

up talking to Wendy.

Wendy, for Christ sake, I never...

Kim!

Hello, Nick.

Seeing Kim, Wendy quickly reaches up and kisses Nick on

the mouth.

We'll talk about it later, lover.

Bye.

Wendy smiles and strolls away. Lou follows her.

36.

43. CONTINUED: (3) 43

I told her to leave me alone.

Worked real well.

The BELL RINGS signalling first period class. Kim

turns to Vicki and Jude.

We'd better go.

Kim brushes past Nick without a word. The two girls ex-

change puzzled glances and follow her.

Kim?

Kim does not turn back. Walking next to her, Vicki

watches her friend curiously. Kim giggles. A sneaky

smile creeps across her face.

That's cruel!

Shhh!

Oh no you don't...

(turns back and

calls to Nick)

She's smiling, Nick. Big grin

spread all over her face.

Kim punches her friend but the damage is done. Nick

grins broadly. Blushing, Kim turns back, flashes him a

quick smile and disappears around a corner to the hoots

of Vicki and Jude.

44 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 44

A tall dark figure walks quickly down a concrete cor-

ridor. From somewhere nearby, loud VOICES, SPLASHING

water, can be HEARD.

45 INT. POOL GALLERY 45

A shadow moves behind the opaque glass plate of a heavy

door.

The door edges open. Raymond Hammond appears. Prop-

ping the door open with his shoulder, he starts down

across the narrow gallery to the pool below.

46 INT. POOL 46

A class of senior male students occupies the water,

among them Nick McBride and Drew Shinnick. With no

Phys. Ed. instructor in sight, it's a general goof-off

period.

Nick walks out onto the diving board. Drew is treading

water below him.

47 ANGLE ON HAMMOND 47

as he watches Nick intently from the gallery door.

48 INT. POOL 48

Nick launches himself out over Drew in an apparent

belly-flop. At the last moment, he tucks in and hits

the water in a flipped over cannonball. He surfaces to

a chorus of whistles and cheers. It was a close shave.

You wanta take care of yourself,

man... Kim's expecting a lot from

you tonight...

Nick laughs.

49 INT. GALLERY DOOR 49

The door is easing shut. Hammond is nowhere to be seen.

50 INT. GYM - DAY 50

A side door opens. Hammond steps in, gazes around.

The gym is empty, silent. He walks to the stage steps,

climbs up, pushes through the thick curtain.

51 INT. GYM - BACKSTAGE 51

It's a dark cluttered area broken up by tall partitions,

discarded flats from old student productions, banks of

lights.

Hammond crosses to a rear door, tries it. It's locked.

He turns back. As he does so there's a sudden WHIRRING

SOUND. A row of spotlights flashes on right in front

of him, almost blinding him. He tries to shield his

eyes.

38.

He spins around. Another bank of lights flares at

him. He staggers downstage. The curtains begin to

swing open. Startled, he jumps away from them. His

foot lands on a package of photo-flood bulbs.. There's

a LOUD POP. Then a VOICE.

ALEX (O.S.)

Who's there?

Hammond, shaken, looks across to the far wing. There's

an elevated platform where the electronic control panel

is located. Alex peers down.

Alex?... What the hell're you

doing?

I'm testing the board... I didn't

hear you... nobody's supposed to

be here yet...

No, well'...

He looks around. He's still trying to get himself

together.

I'm.. I'm thinking we might have

a fire hazzard here, all these

extra lights.

He looks awkward, as if he'd been caught at something.

H.A1 ll4OND

all right...

He turns, climbs down the stage steps and starts back

across the gym. At the other end of the floor a door

opens, Sykes looks in. Hammond sees him.

HA, MOND

Ah... Mr. Sykes...

Sykes waits as Hammond hurries across to him. The two

men go out together.

Alex walks out onto the stage, watches them go.

39.

52 INT. CLASSROOM (LAB) - DAY 52

First period biology class features MONTY WELLER, a

tall, thin Englishman in his late thirties. This stuf-

fy, dour science teacher drones on about the joys of ex-

ploring frog vertebrae while most of his class naps,

daydreams or passes notes.

Seated in the back near the door, Jude is furtively

opening a handwritten note. She quickly reads it.

Stifling a giggle, she looks up to see Kim and Vicki

across the aisle, eagerly awaiting her reply. Jude

tears out part of a page from her biology book and

scrawls her answer. Folding the note, she taps the boy

next to her and motions for him to pass it on.

Vicki grabs the note from the boy. Quickly scanning

it, she nods, impressed. Kim reads it and mouths the

word "Wow" to Jude who blushes happily.

Glancing out into the hallway, Jude notices Slick walk-

ing past. Seeing her in class, he stops and waves.

Jude frantically tries to motion him away. Their backs

to the door, Kim and Vicki watch with curiosity as Jude

gestures in their direction. Seeing her friends

watching her, Jude smiles and tries to ignore Slick.

Not to be denied, he exaggeratedly mimes Weller, nose

to his textbook, lecturing on, oblivious to his class.

Jude laughs in spite of herself. Kim and Vicki turn

around.

Glancing out the door, the two girls stare in disbelief

at the small weird curly-haired boy doing a perfect im-

itation of the eminently boring Weller. Their surprise

turns to hilarity as they realize this boy must be

Jude's prom date. Kim holds up the note, raising her

eyebrows as she gestures toward Slick. Jude nods. Kim

and Vicki can barely contain their laughter. They do

not notice Mr. Weller eyeing them suspiciously as he

rattles on about frog intestines. Slick mouths the

words, "See you at lunch.., in the van." Jude nods and

smiles.

With a final bow and a wave, he exits.

Kim suddenly looks up to find a red-faced Mr. Weller

looming above her.

Miss Hammond!

Wide-eyed, Kim desperately tries to crush the note in

her hand.

Since you obviously find your own

words more interesting than those

of Farnsworth on the anatomy of a

frog...

(pauses to share his

wit with the class)

, read the note!

(barely a whisper)

Read the note?

Now, Miss Hammond!

Kim swallows and steals a quick glance at her friends.

Vicki winces. Jude tries to disappear beneath her, seat.

Yessir...

(clears her throat)

Well, it's mostly talking

about...

Word for word, please. Exactly

as it is written.

Right..

(coughs and finally

begins, slowly, in a

What a hunk!

Titters from the class.

Really cute... Tall... a great

The class roars with laughter.

Kinda the Latin lover type.

(reading ahead,

and his name is Slick!

The classroom erupts into laughter as the BELL RINGS,

signaling the end of the class. Still laughing, stu-

dents gather their books and shuffle out, several giv-

ing Kim sympathetic glances as they pass.

After school, Miss Hammond. One

hour detention study hall... you

and your friends!

Kim looks from Jude to Vicki.

But, Mr. Weller, tonight's the

prom...

Tell that to your...

hunk!

He spins on his heel and marches back to his desk. The

three girls hurriedly exit.

53 INT. ROOM (SCHOOL) - DAY 53

A hand is flipping through the pages of the Winston

High yearbook, the back pages where the individual

photographs of graduating students are placed. The

hand stops, moves across an open page to a smiling head

shot of Nick McBride.

The hand rips the picture from the page, sets it down

on a plain wooden desk alongside three other pictures

-with similar torn edges. The other pictures are of

Jude Cunningham, Kelly Lynch, and Wendy Richards.

The yearbook is slammed shut.

54 INT. CAFETERIA - DAY 54

Kim, Jude and Vicki enter the crowded room. MUSIC from

several portable RADIOS can be HEARD above the clamor

as the girls move into the long lunch line. Kim spots

Alex seated nearby and waves to him.

4L.

Here comes the incredible hunk

himself.

Jude looks up to see Slick slowly making his way down

the line towards them. He is carrying a tray piled

high with snack food: potato chips, cookies, candy.

Jude smiles as he passes her, grinning.

Looks like a party.

Yeah -- I don't think he's gonna

be too good for my diet...

Slick moves down the lunch line. Suddenly he is bumped

from behind, sending the tray and the snacks flying

across the room. Looking around, Slick jumps back,

startled by a tall figure wearing a dark ski mask.

Hey, clown, what the...

Three of Lou's gang quickly step up behind the masked

figure.

Say what?

Forget it, Lou.

That's what I figured.

Slick bends over to pick up his lunch.

Asshole!

Lou and his friends shove ahead in the line until he is

standing behind Kim. Lou nuzzles Kim's neck.

(muffled by the mask)

Like me better now?

43.

Startled, Kim spins around. Her fear quickly becomes

anger.

It's an improvement!

She turns her back to him.

You like it so much...

(spins her around to

Have a taste.

He kisses her hard on the mouth. Swinging at him, Kim

breaks away. Laughing, Lou grabs her wrists and rough-

ly pulls her to him. Alex instantly jumps to his feet.

holding Kim close)

Be nice...

Alex leaps over the metal railing separating the line

from the tables. Crashing into Lou, he drives the

larger boy back into the salad counter, sending food

and utensils flying. As they tumble off the counter

onto the floor, Alex gets in several furious punches

before Lou's gang can pry him loose.

Two of the gang pin Alex against the counter. Wiping

blood from his mouth, Lou grins maliciously and slugs

Alex in the stomach. The boy groans and doubles over.

Lou grabs Alex's hair and slams his head back against

the glass shield of the counter.

As Lou rears back to throw another punch, his two

friends suddenly release Alex and scatter. The boy

crumples to the floor. Lou turns around to see two

MALE TEACHERS rapidly approaching. The larger teacher

grabs Lou.

This time you're out, Perano.

Lou points to Alex who is being helped up from the

floor.

He started i

I'll bet... Alex?

Alex nods, leaning on the other teacher for support.

That's not true! Alex was trying

to help me.

The teacher looks from Kim to Lou to Alex.

You'd better come along to your

father's office.

Wonder who'll get off with just

a warning?

Several students laugh. The two Teachers march Lou and

Alex through the silent cafeteria. Lou swaggers bask-

ing in the attention. Alex walks with his head bowed.

They exit.

55 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 55

Lou and Alex accompany the teachers down the corridor

toward the principal's office. Nick and Wendy approach

from the opposite direction, talking heatedly.

I don't care who. Just

somebody else!

You never had it so good as with

me.

I've got it now... better!

You don't even know...

(spots Lou and

Lou!

The surprised Lou tries to stop but the Teachers hurry

him and Alex past the couple. Wendy watches Nick.

(turning back to Wendy)

I got this appointment.

45.

Wendy turns to see Nick's reaction but he is already

walking towards the cafeteria. The irate girl glares

after him.

56 INT. OFFICE - DAY 56

Hammond is talking on the telephone. He appears agi-

tated, running his fingers through his hair and tugging

at the knot in his loosened tie.

No, Vi. I didn't forget.

I told you we'd go to the cemetery...

The door opens and Adele Cooper's head peers around the

corner. Seeing Hammond talking on the phone, she nods

toward the outer office. Hammond gestures for her to

wait. She persists until he angrily takes the receiver

from his ear and covers the mouthpiece.

What is it?

There are some gentlemen here to

see you, Mr. Hammond.

Can't it wait?

I didn't ask... But one looks

a little like that child in the

picture on your desk.

Hammond automatically glances at the photograph of

Robin framed alongside one of the rest of his family.

(into the receiver)

I've got to go now, Vi... We'll be

there within the hour...

There's a loud CLICK on the other end of the line.

Damn!

46.

Frustrated, Hammond slams the receiver into its cradle.

All right, send them in.

The two Male Teachers enter first, followed by Lou and

finally Alex. Hammond gives his son a sharp look, then

turns to glare at Lou.

You again?

Brawling in the cafeteria... both

of them.

He places Lou's ski mask on Hammond's desk. The prin-

cipal glances at it.

Thank you. I'll handle it.

The Teachers exit.

Explanations?

He looks at Alex. The boy stares at the floor and says

nothing. Hammond holds the mask up to Lou.

Halloween?

I was just foolin' around with

this girl...

Kim!

Hammond frowns.

when this -- your son

tackled me and...

Is this true, Alex?

47.

I knew It !

Hammond whirls on him.

You knew what?

It just figures.

(his voice rising

That I'll play favorites? That

I'll go easy on Alex because he's

my son?

(pauses, waiting for

Lou to back down and

Damn right I will! You're a

disgrace to this school and this

community...

You're suspended --

indefinitely! Now get out!

What about your son?

If you're not off school grounds

in five minutes, I'll have you

arrested for trespassing.

Lou stalks to the door. Opening it, he turns to Alex.

See you around.

He exits, slamming the door.

Have the nurse take a look at you,

then get back here.

Alex exits. Hammond angrily grabs Lou's ski mask and

hurls it at the trash can_

48.

57 EXT. FRONT LAWN - DAY 57

Kim and Vicki are sprawled on the grass eating lunch.

Lou storms down the front steps. Pausing at the bottom,

he turns, strolls over to Kim.

Watch for me, little girl. You

know I'm just a kiss away.

Lou laughs and walks off toward the parking lot. Kim

shudders.

Wendy's white Mustang slides up to the curb. The pass-

enger window rolls down and Lou leans over to look in-

side. After a moment he climbs in and the MUSTANG

PEELS out of the lot, leaving twin black tread marks in

its wake.

What a pair!

Made for each other!

Kim opens a carton of yogurt.

You wearing that green gown tonight?

You kidding? That was last year.

This year... red silk!

(smiles and runs her

hand from her neck

to her waist)

Cut to here! ...

NICK (O.S.)

Cut to where?

Kim and Vicki turn to see Nick ambling across the lawn

toward them.

Anywhere you like...

On the prowl!

58 EXT. STREET - DAY

Wendy's white Mustang streaks through traffic, dodging

in and out of lanes, running yellows, burning around

corners.

59 INT. MUSTANG 59

Lou sits pinned to the passenger seat, eyes wide,

staring straight ahead as if he can't quite believe

this trip. His bravado seems to have left him. He

glances over at Wendy in the driver's seat. She's

puffing on a cigarette, handling the wheel almost

casually. She's in control,

60 EXT. DRIVE-IN 60

The Mustang suddenly slows down and makes a hard left

turn, narrowly beating a horn-honking oncoming van.

The big white car bounces up over the curb and sweeps

into the end slot at a sprawling fast-food drive-in.

61 INT. MUSTANG 61

Lou's still pinned to his seat. Wendy shuts off the

engine, looks at him. He looks at her, lets out a

long deep breath.

A cute little CAR-HOP in a cut-off costume and roller

skates glides over. She leans into Wendy's window,

talks through a wad of gum.

Ready to order?

What do you want?

Lou's shifting around in his seat, pulling himself

together.

I'm uh... a little short on cash..

You can owe me.

Yeah? Okay then, a couple of

burgers, a large fries... what

kind of beer you got?

C'mon man, this is a drive-in not

a bar.

All right, all right... don't get

nervous... Gimme a coke...

50.

(nods to Wendy)

She'll have the same.

A small diet cola.

That ' sit.

The Car-hop shrugs, wheels away. Wendy turns to Lou.

I'll buy you one for Christmas,

all right? Now, how do I know

you're serious?

Whatta you mean, serious? I hate

that school, Hammond and his

asshole family...

I don't want anyone hurt... not

badly.

You got it... anything your little

heart desires...

Lou, shouldn't we go over this.

Lou puts his finger to her mouth, silencing her.

I'll take care of it, Scout's

honor... Don't worry about it...

Di.

He caresses her cheek and lips, then kisses her. At

first reluctant, Wendy quickly takes over. When they

finally break from their passionate clinch, he is

gasping.

Jesus Christ!

Don't worry about it..

She unbuttons his shirt and begins to kiss and lick his

chest. Slowly she works her way down. Lou begins to

writhe. Wendy's head disappears from VIEW. Lou's eyes

snap open in surprise.

Wendy groans.

Damn stick shift!

Lou starts to protest, then dissolves.

62,. INT. MUSTANG - DAY 62

The Car-hop wheels up to the Mustang carrying a tray

loaded with food. She leans over and peers inside.

Wendy is behind the wheel, perfectly composed. A mind-

blown Lou is hurriedly doing up his belt, tucking in

his shirt. He glances at the Car-hop then turns away

to finish the job.

Enjoy your meal.

63 EXT. LAKE-SIDE BLUFFS - DAY 63

A WIDE VIEW; high weather-worn bluffs tumbling down to

a strip of beach and the calm blue waters of the lake.

Above the bluffs there's a narrow shaded park and then

the buildings and parking lots of Winston High.

Nick and Kim walk slowly along the rim of the bluffs.

Nick has his arm around her. She leans into him.

I am excited, it's just... in some

ways it's such an awful day... It's

Robin's day...

64 EXT. BLUFFS CLOSER ANGLE 64

My mother's all upset, as usual.

My father too... he doesn't show

it so much... It's hard to get

over something like that. Robin

would have been a junior, like

Alex. This would've been her first

prom... I guess that's'why it seems

so much worse this year...

She stops, turns and faces Nick. It's hard for him to

meet her gaze.

The Queen of the Prom is determined

not to let it get to her... She

must maintain her... whatever, at all

costs..

She tries a weak smile. Nick stares at her, then sud-

denly takes her, pulls her to him, embraces her. She's

caught by surprise, but she responds.

She smiles.

I love you too.

Di.

I'm... I want you to know that...

Robin's death... I remember it and

I've always been... so sorry

about it...

Kim looks puzzled.

I mean... I know what you're

feeling... I've...

(looks at her)

:Listen I...

Across the school parking lot a CAR HORN BLARES, inter-

rupts Nick. Kim reacts.

That's my father... I've got to go,

Okay?

Yeah... I'll see you later.

She hesitates a moment, then kisses him quickly, turns

and goes. Nick looks shaken up. He stares after her

as she hurries away.

Behind Nick, in the other corner of the parking lot, a

metal door slides open, loud RAUNCHY ROCK and ROLL sud-

denly infests the air. Nick turns, sees Jude climbing

out of Slick's van. Jude looks about as stoned as she

can get. She spots Nick, waves.

Hey, Nick!

Nick turns and heads the other way.

65 EXT. CEMETERY - HAMMOND PLOT - DAY 65

There's a small marble headstone inset with the carved

face of an angel and the inscription "Robin Anne Hammond

1964 - 1973 Too Soon Taken From Us."

Kneeling beside the grave is Vivian Hammond. She's ar-

ranging a large bouquet of mixed flowers, fussing with

them, trying for some kind of impossible perfection.

HP`i12MOND (0. S.

We have to go, Vi.

J4.

She doesn't react, she keeps playing with the flowers.

Hammond moves in behind her, puts his hands on her

shoulders. She looks at him.

We have to get back.

She stands, with her husband's support. Kim and Alex

are standing quietly at the foot of the grave. Vivian

looks at them both. Her eyes hold a terrible rage, a

terrible sadness. Hammond carefully guides her away.

Kim has a flower of her own, a white rose, which she

drops on her sister's grave. She turns, meets Alex's

stare, moves off after her parents. Alex remains a mo-

ment longer, then. he, too, goes.

66 EXT. TENNIS COURTS DAY

During the afternoon phys. ed. class, the girls play

tennis: Kim with Kelly and Vicki with Jude. Sykes

lingers nearby, watching the girls. Their instructor

is Miss HENRI-ANNE BENTON, a stocky woman in her late

thirties with teased, lacquered hair. A product of

genteel Southern womanhood, Henri-Anne stalks the

courts in her baggy Bermuda shorts, constantly blowing

a silver whistle hanging from her neck.

A very stoned, giggling Jude runs Vicki ragged, hitting

balls over the fence, straight up in the air and occa-

sionally even back over her head. Each time a ball

flies over the fence, Vicki runs to retrieve it to the

delight of Sykes.

At one point, Vicki bends over to pick up a ball under

Sykes' appreciative gaze. The shrill WHISTLE inter-

rupts her as Henri-Anne rushes over.

No, no, Miss Cantrell! Never bend

from the waist... Squat!

Always squat to retrieve.

Otherwise, you look like the broad

side of a barn!

(glares at Sykes)

Isn't that so, Mr. Sykes?

Embarrassed, the custodian scuttles away to the girls'

Laughter.

That's enough for today, ladies.

We don't want you all worn out for

the ball tonight.

Kim, Jude and Kelly gather'around with the other girls.

Ball?

Shhh!

Kelly takes Jude aside as Kim and Vicki approach Henri

Anne.

You sure she likes Weller?

Positive. I heard her say she's

had the hots for him since they

met!

She said that?

Well, not exactly.

Oh, Kim. You'll be in the gym

promptly at three-fifteen for

rehearsal?

Well, actually no, Miss Benton.

can't make it... You know Mr.

Weller?

We're... acquainted.

He.. umm..

He's got a crush on Kim!

56.

Kim stares in amazement aL Vicki;

(staring at Kim)

He has what?

Kim, wide-eyed, can only look at Vicki.

He keeps making Kim stay after

school in detention study hall for

no reason... Just so he can be

near her.

That's horrible!

Kim gulps.

You mean to tell me that awful man

A girl half his age!

(a very slight

So you have detention this

afternoon?

Kim nods meekly. Lost in thought, Henri-Anne fondles a

tennis ball, a curious smile playing across her face.

Leave everything to me...

She hurries away. Kim turns on Vicki and starts to

protest.

It worked, didn't it?

67 EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS - DAY 67

Kim and Vicki, and behind them, Jude and Kelly are

walking back to the gym and the dressing rooms from the

tennis courts. Vicki's in high spirits and Jude still

can't stop giggling.

Vicki spots old Sykes heading out toward the playing

field. She calls out to him.

Mr. Sykes!

Vicki, don't...

Oh, Mr. Sykes...

Sykes stops, turns around.

This is just for you...

She turns, bends over, quickly yanks down her shorts

and moons him. There's a squeal of laughter from Jude

and from Kelly. Vicki whips her shorts back up and

runs to the gym door, the other girls in pursuit.

Kim looks back at Sykes. He's just standing in the

field, not moving. There's a look in his eyes.

68 INT. GIRLS' LOCKER ROOM - DAY 68

headin g for the showers.

I'm not like the others, Kim.

Drew needs somebody like Vicki

who'll give him what he wants.

Vicki's sex life is more talk than

action. Besides, Drew wants you.

I'm afraid if I don't make it with

him he'll find somebody who will.

Let him.

I'd die if he did...

The girls wrap towels around themselves and walk to-

wards the showers.

Sa .

69 INTT. SHIER AREA - DAY 69

A girl (MELANIE) is leaving as Kim and'Kelly enter.

Wendy is standing in front of a mirror drying her hair.

Kim ignores her and Wendy returns the compliment.

See you outside, Wendy.

Just be a minute...

Kim and Kelly hang up their towels and step into the

showers.

What about you and Nick?

What about us?

Wendy finishes brushing her hair, shoots Kim.a dark

look, exits.

What.happened when he asked you?

Kim smiles.

Maybe I asked him...

Kelly looks at her friend.

70 INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY 70

Wendy finishes buttoning her blouse. She's pulling on

her jeans when she hears a SCUFFLING SOUND.

I'll be right there, Melanie.

No answer. Curious, Wendy moves around the lockers,

investigating. The room appears empty.

There's a sudden LOUD CREAKING. Wendy whirls around.

A locker door is swinging slowly open.

Melanie?...

Still no answer. Shaking her head, Wendy returns to

her locker.

She's about to shut it when she sees something, a pic-

ture, taped to the side of the door. It's her photo,

torn from the School Yearbook. She rips it from the

door, looks at it.

What's this for, Melanie?

Her voice echoes through the empty room. She gazes

around, fear creeping into her face. She quickly

finishes dressing, grabs her books, turns to leave.

Suddenly she screams.

71 INT. SHOWER AREA 71

Wendy's SCREAM is all but DROWNED OUT by the SHOWERS.

Rinsing off, Kim and Kelly hear nothing.

I think I'll let Drew do it.

The door to the locker roor slowly opens behind them.

Let him?

She looks at Kelly. Neither girl hears the SQUISH of

RUBBER SOLES moving across the wet tile floor.

Suddenly there are LOUD VOICES. Melanie comes through

from the locker room, laughing. Behind her, Wendy's

ANGRY WORDS are AUDIBLE.

WENDY (O.S.)

If you ever try anything like that

again, you cow!

Melanie thinks it's hilarious.

(to Kim and Kelly)

You should've seen her jump...

Nadia Comenici never did better...

Wendy storms in. She's got the photo in her hand. She

waves it at Kim and Kelly.

What's this supposed to mean?

vv.

I know it's not much of a picture,

Wendy, but you didn't have to go

that far...

Wendy is furious.

I didn't!

She turns, glares at Melanie.

Don't look at me...

You're all... children...

She storms out. Melanie looks at Kim and Kelly,

shrugs, follows Wendy. A DOOR SLAMS in the locker

room.

Kim and Kelly look at each other, laugh, turn their

faces back to the steaming water. Neither one hears

the SOUND across the room, a HARSH RHYTHMIC HEAVY

BREATHING.

Kelly bends her head away from the water, clears her

eyes., She squints out through the steam at the big

wall mirror across the room. She sees something. She

steps back into Kim, her eyes wide with fear.

Watch it...

Kelly covers her breasts with her arms, presses against

the wall, terrified.

Suddenly there's an EXPLOSION of SOUND. Kim screams,

jumps back, stares. There's a jagged hole in the cen-

ter of the mirror, huge cracks radiating from it,

spidering across its surface.

For a moment no one moves. Splinters of GLASS TRICKLE

down to the floor. There's no other sound. Kim grabs

for her towel, steps out of the shower, looks. There's

no one. She heads for the locker room door. Kelly

runs after her.

61.

72 INT. LOCKER ROOM 72

Kim rushes into the room, Kelly right behind her.

There's no one. Kelly is quivering. She clutches at

Kim's arm. Kim looks at her.

What did you see?

Kelly just shakes her head.

Just... just... a shadow or.,.

Kim heads for the exit door across the room. Kelly

stays with her.

73 EXT. SCHOOL 73

Kim opens the outside door, peers down the walkway to

the tennis courts, playing fields. There's no sign of

anyone. She closes the door.

74 INT. LOCKER ROOM 74

Kim turns back.to Kelly who's started to cry.

Someone was there! Someone was...

in there...

Kim is taking charge. She moves cautiously back to the

shower room door, opens it, looks in. She gasps.

What? What!s wrong?

Kelly's on the edge of hysteria. She runs over to Kim.

They both look.

75 KIM'S AND KELLY'S POV 75

What the girls see is the mirror. Something has

changed. A long wedge of glass has been lifted out o

it.

76 BACK TO SCENE 76

Kim shuts the door, presses against it, stares at

Kelly.

77 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 77

Kim walks quickly down a long school corridor and turns

into her father's office.

UL.

78 INT. OFFICE - DAY 78

Kim enters. Adele Cooper is seated behind the secre-

tary's desk thumbing through a fashion magazine.

I'd like to see my f ather .

Another Hammond?

Is he here?

No, he's not. He said he'd be

back but...

She trails off. Kim is obviously upset.

What's urrong?

Oh... There was... Somebody broke

a mirror in the shower room...

There was somebody in there...

A mirror? Seven years bad luck...

She tries to smile. Kim just looks at her.

79 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 79

Kim turns a corner, heading for class, and almost runs

into Sykes, cleaning the floor. Sykes turns. For a

moment their eyes lock. Then Kim hurries away, almost

running. Sykes stares after her.

80 INT. HALLWAY (WELLER'S CLASSROOM) - DAY 80

Did it work?

Kim is startled, turns. Vicki and Jude and approach-

ing. Vicki hurries to the door, reads the note.

ai.

It worked!

She lets out a whoop, embraces Jude. Kim stands back,

somehow less impressed.

81 INT. GYM - DAY 81

Several students are putting last-minute touches on the

decor as Kim comes in. Huge speakers are being hoisted

on pulleys to hang from the ceiling. A vast, raised

platform covers much of the gym floor, its plexiglass

surface designed to be illuminated from below. Perched

on a ladder, Weller is hanging shimmering silver strips

while Henri-Anne Benton supervises from the disco

floor.

Careful, Monty... A little

higher...

(sees Kim and

I'm glad you could make it!

Something came up...

(looks at Weller)

'Afternoon, Mr. Weller.

Oh, hello, Miss... Hammond. I was

just... uh...

Henri-Anne mercifully interrupts him.

Let's get started.

Nick!

Nick pokes his head out of the sound booth set on a

platform near the stage.

Onstage! Tell Alex we're ready.

Alex emerges from the booth. DAVY MATLOCK, a pudgy,

fifteen-year-old sophomore and Alex's technical assis-

tant, leans out behind him.

All set, Miss Benton. Just have

Davy roll the tapes.

Wonderful. You can be Mr. Hanunond

for the rehearsal!

Alex groans. Kim smiles as Nick joins her. She takes

his hand, clutches it. They start to walk away, talk-

ing quietly. Nick puts his arm around her.

Nick! Kim! Come with me.

Henri-Anne bounds up onto the stage. Kim and Nick fol-

low her behind the curtain.

82 INT. GYM (BACKSTAGE) - DAY 82

Henri-Anne takes Kim to one of the wings of the dark

cluttered area.

You'll wait here...

(looks around for

Nick?

Nick silently creeps from behind a partition and moves

up directly behind Henri-Anne. He mimes choking her, a

crazed expression on his face. Kim has to laugh at his

clowning.

Nick!

Scary place!

You have to stand up here tonight,

not me. If you don't know what to

do, you'll look the fool!

Nick glances at Kim. She shrugs.

Come along.

Nick follows her to the opposite wing. Kim cannot see

them from her position.

(continuing; calls out)

Can you hear me, Kim?

Yes.

Kim leans against a wall, gazing around at her gloomy

surroundings. She does not hear the WHISPERED CONVER-

SATION coming from behind a nearby partition. She does

not see Wendy and Lou lurking there, watching her.

All right, Alex, start the tape.

A TRUMPET FANFARE BLARES OUT of the SPEAKERS.

Listen for your cue, king and

queen...

PROFESSIONAL MUSIC is HEARD.

Start walking -- slowly!

Kim begins to cross the stage. She smiles when she

spots Nick. The curtain slowly opens.

The King and Queen of the George

Winston High School Junion-Senior

Prom for 1980 -- Nick McBride and

Kim Hammond!

They meet backstage center and turn towards the parting

curtain. Henri-Anne stands at the front of the stage,

her hand resting on Alex's shoulder, as Kim and Nick

proceed downstage.

66.

These two seniors were selected by

their fellow students as the most

popular boy and girl in the class..

(to Kim as they

Bullshit!

Kim smiles.

Peeking out from behind the curtain, Wendy turns to

Lou.

Bullshit!

Shhh!

Nick is a three-sport letterman

and president of the Key Club. He

plans to attend State University

in the fall.

Because he can't get in anywhere

else!

Kim is the head cheerleader and

ranked number one on the girls'

tennis team. She hopes to become

a teacher.

If she ever graduates...

Nick and Kim stop downstage center.

Now, Alex.

Self-consciously, Alex stumbles up to Kim and pretends

to give her a bouquet of roses.

67.

That's it, Alex. Now kiss her!

My sister?

Alex!

Alex awkwardly kisses Kim on the cheek.

Now the king.

Kiss the king?

On the mouth!

Kim laughs at Alex's discomfort.

Shake hands...

They shake.

Alex, step back...

Alex moves next to her.

Kim and Nick, start down the..

(looks at the

Where are the steps?

Silence.

(continuing; to the

You expect our king and queen to

jump to the floor?

A STUDENT in the back timidly responds.

68.

I'll find them, Miss Benton.

Henri-Anne turns back to Nick and Kim.

You'll descend the steps...

Nick and Kim climb down from the stage.

Nick, give Kim your arm...

(as he does)

Move to the center of the floor.

Nick and Kim self-consciously cross the room, aware

that everyone is watching them.

Wait for the spotlights and your

music cue, then dance...

It'll be beautiful!

83 TNT. HALLWAY - DAY 83

Kim strides down the empty corridor, flushed and ex-

cited from the rehearsal. Arriving at her father's of-

fice, she flings open the door.

84 INT. OFFICE - DAY 84

Kim enters and surveys the apparently empty office.

Hearing GRUNTS and GROANS from behind the desk, Kim

steps around and sees Adele Cooper stretched across the

floor. The secretary is practicing her "Rainbow" exer-

cise, arching her body towards the ceiling while keep-

ing her hands and feet on the floor.

Hello?

Adele twists her head around to look at Kim. Her

"Rainbow" collapses. Spinning around, Adele sits

cross-legged on the floor and smiles at Kim.

You okay?

Yeah... I've calmed down a bit...

69.

Adele launches into another contortion.

This works for me.

Has my father been back?

Nope. Haven't seen him all

afternoon.

And he didn't leave a message?

Not a word.

Strange... He usually gives me a

ride home.

Let me finish and I'll give you a

lift.

Thanks, but I can walk.

Kim starts to leave, turning around at the door.

Guess I won't be seeing you again.

Standing on her head, Adele smiles.

Guess again. Three different

students asked me to the prom

tonight... I thought you had to be

enrolled!

You're going?

Not with any of them. Know any

good-looking fathers?

70.

I'll keep my eyes open. See you

later.

She exits as Adele slowly lowers her legs to the floor.

85 INT. HALLWAY - DAY 85

Jude approaches her locker, stops. There's a picture

taped to her locker door, her picture, ripped out of

the Winston High Yearbook. She looks at it, reaches up

and pulls it off the door. She winces, looks at her

finger. It's bleeding. She looks at the picture.

There's a tiny sliver of glass embedded in it.

Jude hears SOMEONE COMING. She turns to see Kelly com-

ing toward her.

Jude... look...

She has something in her hand. It's a photo of her, a,

Yearbook photo with the same torn edges. Jude holds up

her version.

86 INT. SHOWER ROOM - DAY 86

The DOOR CREAKS open. A light is flicked on. Sykes

stands there, a broom and a big waste-pan in his hands.

He stares at the broken mirror with its center hole and

its missing wedge.

He shuffles across the floor and starts to clean up the

debris.

87 EXT. HAMMONDS' HOUSE - DUSK 87

The split-level suburban residence sits on a tree-lined

street in an older, middle-class neighborhood. Walking

up the driveway, Kim hears a LOUD THUD from behind the

house. As the SOUND CONTINUES, Kim walks around back

to investigate.

88 EXT. HAMONDS ' BACKYARD - DUSK 88

Stepping around the corner of the house, Kim sees her

father furiously chopping an old stump in the flower

garden.

Hammond's axe slashes into the rotten wood, sending

splinters flying in all directions. Kim watches him

work. He appears angry and upset.

Hi.

Oblivious, Hammond buries the axe in the stump. Kim

moves around to face him. When he sees her, Hammond

jumps, startled.

I didn't hear you.

Sorry.

Wiping the sweat from his forehead, Hammond struggles

to catch his breath.

I'm getting too old for this.

Why are you doing it now?

Your mother's been hounding me to

get it done... You got nay message?

No.

I told that woman to tell you I

had a meeting and couldn't drive

you home.

Your secretary?

Idiot!

I liked her.

Hammond angrily jerks the axe from the stump.

72.

You okay?

This thing with your mother...

Have you seen her yet?

No. How is she?

One minute she's depressed, the

next she's bubbling over like a

child... She wants to go with me

tonight.

Great!

I'm not so sure.

I think getting dressed up and

going out might be good for her.

HA",24OND

She's had a bad day, Kim. I'm not

sure she can handle it... See if

you can talk to her.

Hammond picks up the axe and sends it crashing into the

stump.

89 INT. KITCHEN - DUSK 89

Kim enters from the backyard. Looking around, she no-

tices that nothing is being prepared for dinner.

Curious, she moves toward the living room.

90 INT. LIVING ROOM - DUSK 90

Vivian is arranging fresh roses on the mantel shrine

when Kim enters. The girl stands for several seconds

watching her mother before she speaks.

Hi, Mom.

/,5

Hello, Robin. Don't eat anything.

Dinner's almost ready.

Disturbed, Kim frowns and slowly crosses the room to

her mother.

Nothing's cooking, Mom. You

must've forgotten.

Slipping out of her reverie, Vivian turns around to

face Kim.

Oh.. I don't know what I was

thinking.

It doesn't matter.

Have you seen the new satin

pantsuit I'm wearing?

Vivian smiles at her daughter. Kim studies her for a

long moment, then leans over and kisses her on the

cheek.

You'll be beautiful.

91 INT. HALLWAY - HAMMONDS' HOUSE - DUSK

As Kim walks down the hallway, she notices that Alex's

door is closed. She enters her bedroom.

92 INT. BEDROOM - DUSK 92

Kim crosses the room and switches ON her RADIO. ROCK

MUSIC is HEARD as she tosses her books onto the desk

and moves to the closet. She carefully pulls out her

prom dress, a mid-length, off-the-shoulder gown in a

white, clinging material. Holding it up against her

body, she inspects the gown in the full-length mirror

on the closet door. Watching her reflection, Kim

twirls around, hugging the gowm to her body. Satis-

fied, she gently lays the go%.m on her bed.

Kim begins to undress. Outside, the twilight shadows

deepen.

THROUGH the VINDOM, a slight movement is SEAN among the

trees; suddenly, a dark figure becomes VISIBLE, ap-

proaching.the window. Kim does not notice the figure

as she finishes undressing. She wraps herself in a

robe and sits at her dressing table.

Putting her hair up, she does not see the shadowy

figure peering inside. When Kim stands up, the figure

slips away from the window. As she crosses the room,

the face reappears, hidden by the shadows, watching her

enter the bathroom.

93 INT. BEDROOM - DUSK 93

Wearing only a bra and panties, Wendy is sprawled

across her bed, talking on the telephone. A black silk

gown is draped across her legs.

(into the receiver)

What I'm wearing now?... Oh,

tonight!

(smiles, gently

stroking the gown)

You'll find out soon enough.

Now, are we all set?... It better.

I don't want her to ever forget

tonight!... Okay, 'bye.

Wendy hangs up the receiver and glances at her night

table. A photograph of a grinning Nick McBride stares

back. Wendy smiles and caresses her gown.

94 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 94

Seated at her dressing table, Kim puts the final touch-

es on her makeup. Her hair is swept up and back, fall-

ing in soft waves to her shoulders. Wearing the rav-

ishing white gown, she looks older and very beautiful.

Vivian's VOICE is HEARD from down the hall.

VIVIAN (O.S.)

Kim!

Vivian comes in looking anxious and flustered. She's

dressed in an elegant black satin pantsuit. Kim turns,

looks at her.

75.

Mom, it looks great...

Vivian doesn't seem to hear her. She's rummaging

through her purse.

Kim, have you got any of my

makeup?

No... I never...

That deep red lipstick, you

remember? You liked it...

I wouldn't take it without asking

you...

Vivian's very wound up.

It was on my dressing table, I set

it aside...

She's looking around Kim's room as if she expects to

see it.

Why does this always happen at

the last minute?

Hammond's VOICE bellows from downstairs.

HAMMOND (O.S.)

let's go, we can't be late...

I set it aside...

She heads for the door, stops, looks fully at Kim for

the first time.

You look lovely, dear.

She goes out.

76.

95 INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL - NIGHT 95

Hammond stands in front of a hall mirror, straightening

his bow tie. He seems agitated, nervous. He turns as

Vivian starts down the stairs. He looks surprised at

her outfit. There's a certain similarity between it

and his own formal suit.

My God, we're going to look like

twins.

Vivian stops dead, looks at him. Hammond forces a

smile.

I'm joking, Vi, it's beautiful.._

C'mon...

She hesitates, then comes down to him.

I told you I'd bought it.

Of course you did.

He opens the door for her. She pauses to check herself

in the mirror.

we've got to go.

He puts an arm around her, kisses her gently on the

cheek. She just stares at herself in the mirror.

96 EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 96

Hammond takes Vivian's arm as they step outside, walk

toward the car in the driveway.

97 INT. PARKED CAR - POV 97

Someone is watching Hammond and Vivian from a car

parked across and just down the street. A shadow moves

in the foreground, in the front seat of the car.

98 EXT. HOUSE 98

Hammond guides his wife to their family car, opens the

passenger door for her_ He looks past her, down the

street, sees a car parked there.

A streetlight reflecting off its windshield prevents

him from seeing inside. Vivian interrupts his

speculations.

I'm going back to change.

She turns back to the house. Hammond holds on to her

arm.

Vi... there's no time...

I'm not going to look ridiculous!

You don't look ridiculous, you

look fine...

99 INT. PARKED CAR - POV 99

The figure in the front seat watches the confrontation

in the Hammond driveway.

100 EXT. HOUSE 100

Hammond takes Vivian by the shoulders, faces her.

Vi.. this is a big night for the

school, it's a big night for me...

I know how you're feeling... I

understand... It's difficult for

all of us... But we've got to make

a special effort, Vi... We can't

let the... terrible memories of

this day affect us... That may

seem cold and... insensitive to

you, but it's the way it has to

be..

He pauses, staring down at his wife. She's holding his

gaze.

Now, Vi, if you think it's going

to be too difficult for you...

You don't want me to go.

78.

Certainly I want you to go,

just saying...

You don't think I can do it... You

think I'll embarrass you...

No! I don't... believe me..

Then why are you saying these

things?

Vi... I just..

He's trying to stay calm, to keep the lid on. She's on

the verge of tears.

I'm sorry... I didn't mean to

upset you...

You treat me like a child! I'm

your wife!

She glares at him. He releases her from his grip, ges-

tures toward the car.

Let's get going...

He walks around to the driver's door. Vivian stares

after him with hard cold eyes.

101 INT. PARKED CAR - POV 101

The figure in the parked car watches as Hammond starts

up the car, waits for Vivian to get in, backs out of

the driveway, and moves off down the street.

102 EXT. PARKED CAR 102

The figure climbs out of his car, gazes at the fading

taillights of the Hammond car. The figure is Nick

McBride.

103 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 103

Kim reaches for a small bottle of cologne.

79.

As she gently tracks the perf me across her skin, she

is startled by another reflection in her mirror.

Whirling around, she sees Alex. Standing up, she pir-

ouettes and curtsies before her brother.

Well?

Alex gapes, stunned by his sister's appearance.

Amazing!

You like?

You look almost like a woman!

Thanks!

She picks up her corsage from her dressing table.

You want to help or just leer?

You're my sister... I'll leer!

Pin this on me, you creep,

late.

Alex takes the corsage. As he attaches the bright red

flower on her gown, she playfully dabs perfume on his

neck. He pulls back, pricking himself on the pin.

Hey!

You shouldn't have pulled away...

The DOORBELL RINGS.

It's him!

80,

103 CONTINUED: (2) 103.

er's face is revealed. It is the nine-year-old Alex.

Kim cradles the killer on the ground. She turns his

head toward the light. We SEE his face full-on.

Robin!

She rushes forward, lunging for the body. Hammond

grabs her, restraining her.

Alex's dark eyes stare back unseeing at his family.

His resemblance to his dead twin sister is uncanny.

His hair falls onto his forehead in bangs, as Robin's

had done seven years before. His makeup has been slop-

pily applied. The rouged cheeks and the smudged red

lips amplify the grotesque impersonation.

Kim strokes her brother's hair. Hammond presses his

hysterical wife to him. The onlookers slowly close in.

We SLOWLY DISSOLVE FROM Alex's face TO a photograph of

the Hammond family taken seven years earlier. We MOVE

IN CLOSE ON the twins. Alex and Robin are smiling.

FADE OUT.

