Based on the novel by

A SCRAPING ROAR, like a bandsaw being twisted into the

most gorgeous, powerful chords, almost religious in its

emotion.

An ULTRA-FAST TECHNO BEAT BEGINS and the FULL-SOUND of a

BAND RUSHES in, creating a sense of vertigo with its

energy.

The BAND'S sounds ECHO about the stone chamber, thrumming

a deep, life-giving pulse. Suddenly, the LID of a

SARCOPHAGUS SCRAPES and slides to one side.

The Figure re-emerges from the tomb, his cape now in

tatters -- posture bent. He creeps across the cemetery

in unnatural, staccato movements as if hindered by the

physics of distance and time. All the while the SONG

plays, drawing the figure toward it.

The Figure moves through the shadows avoiding the spill

of yellow light from the street lamps. Stopping in a

darkened alleyway, he gasps for air, exhausted by his movements.

band in the distance, when -- From down the alley, a

voice...

staring hungrily at...

A MAN proffering a little parcel wrapped in foil.

Pulling deeper into the shadows, the caped Figure beckons

the dealer over. The man approaches when -- With a wild

animal cry, the Figure lunges like a phantom -- A flash of teeth

-- The Dealer is on the ground -- the Figure set

upon him. OVER this scene the BAND'S SONG RUSHES IN LOUD again,

reaching an incredible CRESCENDO as the violent

frenzy continues -- the monster gnawing at the Dealer's

neck.

Its vein refilling with the flow of warm blood -- skin

regaining a youthful tautness.

Rising from his victim we see for the first time the

revitalized face of this creature, a mane of blond hair

frames the beautiful features of the VAMPIRE LESTAT --

his bulbous lips glistening red.

In the street, Lestat emerges from the shadows in the

dealer's snug-fitting leather outfit. He looks up at an

extremely run-down flophouse...

High in the attic, a single window glows with dim light.

The source of the MUSIC. The whole house is shaking from

the sound of the BAND playing upstairs.

The room booms with music, speakers stacked high on all

sides, literally shaking the house to its foundations.

REVEAL the band members of Satan's Night Out. JAMES,

ALEX and MAUDY stare at each other as if in some tantric

trance, as they play their music -- Alex's long fingers

climbing up and down his guitar, Maudy's waifish body

sensually curls around her keyboard, the waves of music

flowing through them while James, on drums, drives them

further into it.

Then, from somewhere in the room, an ANGELIC VOICE begins

to hum the most hypnotic melody over the tune, melding in

exquisite harmony. Arching her neck in some higher

ecstasy, Maudy looks across the makeshift studio and

suddenly stops playing.

Seeing Maudy's stunned face, Alex and James turn to see

Lestat perched like a raven on top of the stack of

speakers, eyes closed, still humming to the fading reverb

of the guitars. Slowly opening his cool grey eyes --

James and Alex look at the door on the other side of the

attic -- they should have seen him. Maudy stares at

Lestat, quite taken by the handsome vampire's looks --

Drinking Maudy in with his eyes --

As we REMAIN ON the stunned looks of the band's faces --

Suddenly from across the room --

They spin around to see Lestat now right behind them,

smiling.

They all stare at him, faces white.     A beat.     Then James

breaks into a big smile.

Maudy and Alex look at each other getting used to it.

They break into smiles, going with it.

FLYING ACROSS night skies, as the distinctive dark sound

of SATAN'S NIGHT OUT KICKS IN to join Lestat's soaring

voice.

We COME ACROSS the city lights of London. Below, police

cars section off a few blocks around a very sleek,

ultramodern office building where a huge crowd has

gathered.

SUPERIMPOSE:    LONDON (6 MONTHS LATER)

Through the crowd, a very long, black limousine snakes

its way toward the building. Rows of fans dressed as

Goths, ghouls and vampires scream out...

Girls press their breasts and necks up against the

limousine. Thump! Thump! Fan after female fan flings

herself on the car. Groupies scream with pure

excitement.

Confusion of screams as the door to the limo opens. The

crowd's scream reaches a fever pitch as... James, Alex

and Maudy climb out, ogle at the sight. ROGER SMYTHE,

their business manager (40s), gets out next, hustling

them through the crowd.

A wave of hysteria hits the fans. Roger hustles the

band through the crowd and up the stairs into the church,

past the giant billboard with their own images written

huge, Lestat's smiling face above them all and the

announcement --

LESTAT -- LIVE & UNDEAD -- OCTOBER 31, ALL HALLOW'S EVE,

DEATH VALLEY, U.S.A.

A high-tech conference room. The band, sitting up front,

is faced by an audience of over fifty journalists and

then another fifty photographers and TV cameras. The

room crackles with anticipation. Roger steps to the

podium.

He pushes a button and a black curtain slides open to

reveal a huge monitor on the wall.

Every eye is glued to the SCREEN... CRACKLE, CRACKLE.

Nothing. Then suddenly, on the screen, a face in shadow

appears... Lestat. His voice booms out over the crowd.

Then Lestat leans forward into the light. Hushed

whispers move through the crowd. Lestat's eyes burn

unnaturally bright. His white skin absolutely glows,

luminous. Lestat smiles out at them with a tight smile.

Then grins wider, revealing his fangs.

A thousand questions suddenly burst out of the

journalists.

He points to a PRETTY FRENCH JOURNALIST.

In the corner, Roger gives a big winking smile to the

camera crew. The journalists smile, playing along. A

younger, hipper MUSIC magazine JOURNALIST pipes in...

The journalists laugh. The French Journalist looks a

little frightened/fascinated by Lestat's leer.

The Lifestyle Journalist smiles.

In a dark room, the interview continues.

Laughter. They're enjoying this performance although no

one is taking it very seriously. PULL OUT to reveal we

are --

A man in a dark suit plays pool. Looking up over his

dark glasses, his strange, luminescent, grey eyes stare

up at Lestat on the TV scornfully.

Leaning forward, Lestat smiles at the TV camera.

CAMERA BOOMS DOWN to reveal...

A group of dangerous-looking vampires dressed in various

styles, staring stony-faced up at the screen, their eyes

glowing strangely in the ultra-violet light. The pool

player is in the b.g. Other vampires, dressed in black, eyes

cold as ice, stare up at the TV.

Next to him sits a female VAMPIRE, Evian bottle in hand.

She brings her Evian bottle to her lips.   Drinks heartily.

The liquid inside glistens deep red.

Crack -- the pool player sinks the last ball on the pool

table. The TV suddenly EXPLODES.

as it plays LESTAT'S SONG.

PULL OUT ON...

A beautiful young woman, JESSE, 22, lays in black satin

sheets. Her long red hair snakes over her slender neck as

she sleeps to Lestat's voice, still as death. Flickering

candles all over the room reveal her lithe, strong body,

pale as the moon. She is surrounded by her work, ancient

language books, her laptop computer. Another book is

clenched in her hand. The Unconscious Vampire. We MOVE

IN ON her fluttering eyes.

opening. Blank. Still. Unsettling. PULL BACK to

reveal these eyes belong to a 19th-century porcelain

doll. We TRACK ACROSS rows and rows of dolls from

different eras, all exquisitely detailed. TRACK PAST the

billowing floor-to-ceiling curtains to reveal a six-year-

old girl lying awake in a large bed, Jesse, green eyes and

long red curls. LAUGHTER wafts in with the breeze.

Jesse's bare feet pad down the endless corridor. The

little girl is dwarfed by the stone pedestals, all lit

with candles. LAUGHTER ECHOES through the halls.

Jesse moves past rough-hewn columns, watching something

with great curiosity. Behind her, we glimpse a giant

mural of names cut into the stone walls. A family tree,

extending up onto the ceiling and down to the floor.

A grand party is in progress. There are about thirty

vampires, all thin, pale and beautiful. An eclectic

group, elegantly-dressed in Indian silks, Arabic veils,

mixed with a few gaudy Versace outfits. Guests lean into

each other's necks, showing blood-red tongues and fangs.

A young VAMPIRE scoops Jesse up and puts her on his knee.

She stares at him, nervous, intrigued.

Jesse sits up with a start. She stands, heart pounding,

trying to shake the dream off. We see on a bulletin board

behind her, a flyer for Lestat's concert. She takes off

the headphones. Walking over to the mantel above her

fireplace, she picks up a solitary, framed photo -- holds

it tight...

Young Jesse (the girl from the dream) stares straight at

camera. She is held in the arms of a red-haired woman,

her back to camera.

Jesse puts the photo down, catches her reflection in a

mirror, lit by flickering candlelight. Her face is

distressed, troubled by the dream. She goes to the

window, stares out into the black night. The dark waters

of the Thames snake through the London cityscape. Jesse

blows out the candles. Darkness.

Fluorescence pierces the black night. Jesse comes out

of the tube station in a tight, short skirt, boots. She

looks down the street. In one direction, a busy,

brightly-lit street. Jesse gazes at a group of tourists

coming out of a pub, laughing. Then she turns, looks the

other direction. A dark street. She hesitates a long

moment, stares at the light, then can't help herself,

plunges toward the darkness, the LAUGHTER ECHOING, then

DYING.

Jesse passes "rent-boys" stepping from the shadows as

cars cruise by. Jesse, unable to look away, gazes as one

gets in a car. He stares back at her, disappears into

the car.

Jesse passes couples using the shadows for privacy in the

dark, filthy streets. She strides past a girl leaning

against a brick wall, the man grunting, moving

rhythmically against her.

Fog floats in the yellow vapor lights. Jesse pauses at

the intersection of a narrow alley. She hesitates,

nervous, then turns down the dark lane, disappearing into

the blackness...

Jesse, from the shadows, gazes, wide-eyed, at the Soho

private club's entrance, a solitary door with a faded sign

and a dull blue light mounted above.

Jesse hears strange whispering. She sees now figures

moving through the fog. One pushes a buzzer. Jesse stares,

barely breathing, her heart pounding.

The figures have white, luminescent faces, strange, bright,

glowing eyes. Their fingernails are glass-like. A moment

later, a slot in the door opens. The glowing eyes of another

creature stares out at them, scrutinizing them. The door

closes quickly.

Jesse stands there, deliberating. She takes a step closer

to the door. Stops. Takes another nervous step. She hears

something, whirls around.

Another group of the strange figures walk steadily down the

street towards her. Jesse begins backing away. A HISSING

sound slowly fills the alley...

CLOSE ON LESTAT

smiling, revealing his fangs.

REVEAL we are...

Lestat's face appears on a video screen in front of a room

lined from floor to ceiling with leather-bound books, ancient

scrolls. Subjects are marked, Werewolves, Poltergeists,

Possession...

SUPERIMPOSE:    SECRET ORDER OF THE TALAMASCA: CENTER FOR

Jesse, making a presentation, stands before an impressive

and imposing group of 10 TALAMASCANS, wearing demure

suits.

Jesse is excited, a bit nervous, hoping to impress. She

holds a remote which controls images appearing on the

large video screen. Clips from Lestat's press conference

continue. Jesse gazes out at the Talamascans.

The Talamascans glance at each other, surprised. Shake

their heads. A few laugh. They're not Lestat's usual

audience.

She pushes a button, the lyrics appear on screen.

The lyrics on screen are replaced now by an old engraving

of a pub with the sign reading "SAILOR'S ARMS."

Quick flashes of gruesome drawings appear -- animal

sacrifices. A corpses floating above a table...

Jesse talks faster and faster with her enthusiasm.

Quick flashes of gruesome period newspaper drawings,

blood pouring from the neck of a screaming woman. A

white-faced ghoul with fangs.

Jesse is smiling wider, excited by her discovery.

On screen, an old map of London appears.

A modern map appears, overlaying the old map.

Jesse leans forward now as she talks.

On screen, a photo of the Waverly Arms.

She pauses for emphasis, gazing at the faces of the

Talamascans, gauging their reactions.

Murmurs. Many of definite interest. Some of definite

skepticism. Jesse's face shines bright with her

enthusiasm.

Jesse smiles. Pushes a button.     Ready to receive the

Talamascans' approval.

On screen, a new picture appears of several figures,

white faces, dark clothes -- but they're very blurry.

Talamascan #2 smiles at her sympathetically. Jesse gazes

out at the other Talamascans, sees she's losing their

interest.

Murmurs bubble through the entire group now.      They stare

at Jesse, dismayed.

She stares at him.

Jesse turns to her.

Jesse steps from the podium, moving through the

Talamascans as she pleads her case. She talks a mile a

minute, her passion rising...

Jesse sees some of the Talamascans are again listening.

But Talamascan #1 shakes his head...

All the Talamascans gaze at her a moment.       Jesse holds

her breath. Has she gotten them back?

The Talamascans burst out laughing, even Talamascan #2.

Jesse gazes at them, her face burning red. She's lost

them, blown it. Made a fool of herself.

Her frustration rises, she can no longer contain it.       It

bursts out of her.

As they gaze at her, astonished, she gathers her

materials, starts out. Several start shouting back at

her. Amidst the uproar, a voice booms across the room.

Everyone turns. Quiets down. DAVID TALBOT stands in the

back of the room. He's clearly the superior Talamascan,

though younger than some, very charismatic.

He turns, walks out. All the Talamascans look at Jesse.

It doesn't look good. Her face burning red, Jesse turns,

leaves.

A line of hopefuls wanting to enter the exclusive club

wait for the judgement of two BOUNCERS, one buff, one

SLEEK.

Across the street, a figure in the shadows watches.

Bouncer #1 is now making out with one of the young sexy

girls he let in, trying to get a hand up her dress.

A cold WIND suddenly blows, fluttering her skirt.    He

looks up. A dark figure stands in the shadows.

The figure steps from the shadows.    The Bouncer's face

turns white.

It's Lestat...

The Bouncer starts to back way. The girl starts to

scream. Lestat clamps his hand over the girl's mouth.

To the girl...

He gestures to the club. The girl turns and runs for her

life. As the Bouncer backs away, terrified, Lestat turns

to him.

Shaking his head, Phil glances down at his vampire book.

Looking back up he see Lestat now staring at him

intensely while he sings.

Lestat slides into a high "C" leaning into the

microphone, catching his own reflection in the booth's

window, and --

CRACK -- GLASS SPLINTERS.

Roger jumps out of his skin, stifling a cry.

James, Alex, and Maudy "whoop" with excitement.

They all laugh.

THROUGH the broken glass we see Roger slump into a chair,

his nerves totally frayed.

Unhooking their instruments, Alex and James start to pack

up as Maudy slowly approaches Lestat and nuzzles his

neck.

He shivers with temptation. Her hand moves down the

front of his pants. Lestat pulls her into his arms.

Leaning into her neck he breathes in her scent, closes

his eyes and... Suddenly opens them right at Roger who

looks on, extremely perturbed. Smiling like the devil...

Roger stares on, terrified.

Gently letting Maudy go...

He goes directly to Roger, reaches into his open shirt,

pulls out the crucifix around his neck.

Roger tries to laugh it off. Lestat sniffs the air. As

Roger backs away, he turns to open the door, stumbles,

cutting his hand on a fallen shard of glass. Blood

trickles from the cut. Roger looks up at Lestat whose

dark eyes stare intensely at Roger's blood. Roger

quickly sticks his hand in his mouth. With a horrified

expression, he realizes he's sucking his blood. He

quickly heads out. But Lestat is faster and reaches

into Roger's shirt pocket. Pulls out a clove of garlic.     Lestat

shakes his head with a smile.

Roger tries to laugh. Reaches for the garlic to put it

back in his pocket. But Lestat grabs Roger's hand, blood

trickling down his wrist. Lestat speaks intensely.

Lestat walks away.    Roger exhales with relief.

A wood-lined room -- walls covered with books, artifacts,

paintings. Jesse stands before Talbot. He fixes his

eyes on her, pours her some coffee.

Talbot takes in the dark circles around her eyes, how

quickly she's emptied her coffee cup. He pours her

more, smiles gently.

He still looks at her with a penetrating glance.         She

looks back at him.

He gazes at her as she downs her whole coffee,

registering her strong denial. He smiles at her,

forcefully changes the mood.

Jesse starts out. Looking down at papers on his desk,

Talbot calls out, almost casually...

He goes to the paintings hanging on a wall in the back of

his office, covered with black velvet. Jesse follows.

He unveils them.

They stand before an Eighteenth-Century painting. The

interior of an enormous Italian villa. There's a man in

his forties with long white hair, back to us, but his

face is reflected in a standing mirror.

Jesse moves to the next painting. Another nightscape, a

giant medieval tableaux, circa Bruegel.

Jesse runs her finger across the faces, then stops on the

face of a gentleman with long white hair watching the

bloodshed of gory battles and the sacrifices of saints

burned at the stake.

Jesse moves to the next painting, then the next and the

next, all nightscapes set and painted in the style of

different eras, all featuring a portrait of the same

white-maned man.

Jesse stops at a contemporary self-portrait.

She smiles at him, victorious.

Pointing to a larger depiction of a beautiful woman in

Egyptian garb --

Jesse gazes at all the paintings, shaking her head in

wonder, then speaks softly.

Talbot crosses to her.

He takes her by the arm, smiles down at her.

He steers her over to a locked cabinet.

As he unlocks the cabinet...

He takes out an old leather-bound journal.    Turns to

Jesse.

Jesse stares up at him in absolute awe, taking it in.

Talbot gestures in the direction of the Talamascans in

the library.

She smiles at him.    He gives her the diary.

As Jesse goes out, holding the journal, Talbot smiles

after her.

But after the door closes, his gaze turns again to

concern. He crosses back to the paintings, pauses a

moment, staring up into Marius's eyes. Then Talbot

covers each with the black velvet.

Jesse sits on the floor, curtains drawn, the room lit

with candles. A LESTAT SONG plays in the b.g. She

opens the journal.

A solitary paradise in a rough, nighttime sea.

A lightning flash illuminates a sprawling 18th-Century

sea-front villa.

A great round room encircled with candles, their

reflections flickering in the great glass windows braving

back the outside STORM. A huge antique bed sits in the

room's center, and on it... Lestat lays feverish and

fitful, dressed in a soft linen nightshirt. His neck

wears a swollen bite. Another flash of lightning

suddenly jolts him awake. His hands feel the inflamed

wound as he sees...

An indistinct shape of a man dressed in draping red

velvet, sitting asleep in a chair across the room. An

easel stands before him, holding an unseen painting.

Lestat rises out of the bed and grabs his clothes from a

nearby Louis IV chair. He makes for a door when...

Lestat suddenly stops. He looks back to see the painting

that stands on the easel. It's a portrait of himself in

ancient Roman garb, like the god Mars, complete with his

blond hair and fiery blue eyes. Unable to help himself,

he approaches the painting, completely fascinated by his

own image, when suddenly...

The sleeping man leaps up, grabs   Lestat unmercifully and

again plunges his teeth into the   young man's neck.

Lestat fights as best he can but   his strength is no match

as he's slowly drawn down to the   floor. Finally...

The strange man lifts himself up from Lestat's neck to

reveal the face of the vampire MARIUS, the mysterious

figure. Wiping his blooded mouth on his painter's

cloth --

Weakened and helpless, Lestat drags himself back across

the floor in terror.

Marius advances again on the young man...

As Lestat keeps weakly dragging himself away.

His strength leaving him, Lestat slumps flat on the

floor.

Marius smiles, impressed.

Lestat stares at him, his eyes wide.

Bending down, he gazes at Lestat.

Suddenly Marius draws a knife from a Roman sheath on his

belt. With the last of his strength, Lestat grabs his

attacker's wrist.

Guiding Lestat's hand with the knife, Marius smiles and

cuts his own arm, opening his veins. Lestat stares in

true terror as Marius lets his blood drip onto Lestat's

lip. Lestat pulls away as the blood slides into his

mouth...

And indeed... it does taste good. That's the new terror

that's gripping him. He crosses himself and stares up

into Marius's gentle eyes. Marius bends down, cups

Lestat's chin.

Marius brings his open vein to Lestat's lips. Lestat

hesitates, but then suddenly... Feeds hungrily as

Marius's face fills with the bond. He slowly sinks

down to his knees as Lestat feeds and feeds. As

Lestat drinks, a barrage of IMAGES flood into him...

of Marius's life through the ages... Impressionistic,

subliminal burst of IMAGES, color... the glory days of

the Roman Empire to this very moment flash by...

He keeps drinking from the vampire Marius who gasps with

the creation of his child.

Lestat's body grows stronger, his back arching up as he

draws the "life" into him with full force, as... Marius

begins to weaken, himself.

But Lestat keeps on feeding hungrily.

With one great move, Marius pulls Lestat off his arm and

tosses him across the floor twenty feet away. Marius

reels back, clamping his open vein with his hand as

Lestat curls on the ground, gasping ecstatically from the

rush.

Slowly, Lestat starts to feel something. Pain begins

travelling through his body, consuming him until he

screams. Marius crosses to Lestat convulsing on the

floor. He kneels and gently wipes his brow. Lestat's

body thrashes as he grabs at his own limbs...

Wiping his brow as he dies...

Then, Lestat's face still buried in his arms, he begins

to laugh almost drunkenly. Raising his head, his

metamorphosis is clear as his face pales and his eyes

fill with a new kind of power.

Lestat smiles with red glistening lips.     A beat on Marius

as he slowly smiles, too.

A million stars...

TILT DOWN to reveal an old fisherman who cries out as

Lestat bites into his throat. Marius watches as the

fisherman's body relaxes. He pulls Lestat away.

The fisherman is moaning. Looking down at the suffering

victim, Marius swiftly snaps his neck and dumps him into

a boat. He picks up an oar, and with vampire strength,

drives it like a stake through the bottom of the boat.

Water starts bubbling in.

Marius feels Lestat's gaze, turns to him.

As Lestat watches the water begin to fill the bottom

of the boat...

Marius gazes at the fisherman, then, with vampire

strength, shoves the boat far out into the ocean.

Below the brightest of summer night skies, Lestat and

Marius walk along, talking intensely. The ocean appears

to shimmer in the faint light of stars. In the distance,

several bonfires burn on the sand, dancing figures

gathered around.

Lestat gazes at Marius's eyes dancing with intellectual

fervor. As they walk, they pass a group of teenagers,

just younger than Lestat, at a bonfire, dancing, laughing.

Lestat gazes over at them as he and Marius pass, hidden

in shadow.

Lestat nods, taking it in. They pass another bonfire.

MUSIC floats through the night. An OLDER MAN, 50, plays

balalaika while his daughter, 18, plays violin with great

passion.

Marius stops talking, turns. Lestat is no longer beside

him. Marius turns back and sees Lestat standing in the

shadows, listening to the music. The young woman, sensing

something, turns towards Lestat in the shadows as she

plays. Marius goes to Lestat, pulls him farther into the

shadows.

Lestat's eyes fill with some existential realization.

Relenting, Lestat starts to follow. But the music

quickens. Lestat pauses, turns back. As if the music is

calling to him.

The girl still faces into the shadows towards him, and

plays fast and wild, her fingers flying. Lestat stands

there frozen to the spot. The music pulses through

him. He gazes at her fingers, studying their intricate

movements intensely...

Impulsively, Lestat goes back to them, hovers, his face

still somewhat obscured by the darkness. Lestat starts

clapping along to the music, exuberantly.

The girl and Father smile, nod to him as they play.

Marius, in the shadows, is fuming. Lestat's eyes fill

with the moment, the girl's vitality. He notices that

sitting on the ground by the girl are several

instruments. Impulsively, he reaches over, picks up a

violin. He studies the girl's playing again, then with

his new powers, as if by osmosis...

Begins to play with exactly her skill, exactly her

movements.

The girl and her Father laugh, delighted with this new

musician. Lestat plays along with them, joyful,

exhilarated. The girl's fingers fly. Lestat's fingers

pick up speed. Faster. Faster. A glittering torrent of

notes fly out of his violin as if made of gold.

Unconsciously, Lestat steps closer to the music, into

firelight. The Father and his daughter become less

certain, as they gaze at Lestat's strange, pale, glowing

skin, the luminous shine of eyes. But Lestat is

completely taken by the music, the moment. The Father

and the daughter, sensing something strange, stop

playing. Lestat looks up. Sees terror in their eyes.

The Father is slowly backing away, pointing in

horror at Lestat.

Lightning fast, out of the shadows, steps Marius. He

grabs the Father. The girl drops her violin, turns, starts

running down the beach to a bonfire in the distance.

Lestat turns to Marius, shaking his head no in horror.

Lestat hesitates, then runs after the girl. She turns

back, sees him getting closer, starts to scream...

Lestat is suddenly in front of her with his hand over her

mouth, covering her muffled scream.   Her struggle is no

use against his strength. Reaching up to her neck, he

touches it. He looks into her terrified eyes...

Marius kneels over the body of the Father on the island's

deserted shoreline. Tosses him in a boat. Lestat gazes

at the lifeless body of the girl. Marius turns to

Lestat, furious.

Picking up Lestat's victim, Marius tosses her into the

boat as well.

Marius turns to Lestat, who stands in silence, gazing at

the girl and her Father.

Lestat turns to Marius, shaking his head, speaks in a

horrified whisper...

Lestat turns again toward the bodies of the dead girl and

her Father, his face filled with pain, enormous sadness.

closes his eyes.   A violent VIOLIN STRAIN as we PULL BACK

to see...

Lestat standing alone in the bedroom, in a deep reverie,

playing the girl's violin with incredible passion. His

playing picks up speed as he works himself into a Pagnani

furor...

The violin dissolves into Lestat's ROCK MUSIC.

Reading the journal, listening to LESTAT'S MUSIC. She

hears the lyrics... "Mine eyes dazzle, she died so

young..." She looks up, her eyes fill with tears, moved

by Lestat's loneliness. She gazes into the dark night...

then turns, sees her camera...

Jesse moves steadily along the street past darkened

warehouses. Several bonfires line the lane, illuminating

rows of prone bodies, cardboard shelters, empty bottles.

The drunks look up at her with dead eyes.

Jesse goes deeper into a labyrinth of alleys, the street

becoming darker with every step. In the distance she

sees the blue light. Figures moving through the fog.

Jesse moves slowly along a wall in the shadows trying to

get a better look... Suddenly, out of the shadows, a

BOTTLE SMASHES... She starts, quickens her pace...

Runs straight into a bulky figure. A primal scream rises

from her stomach. The figure is a homeless drunk, more

scared than she is, who scuttles off quickly into the

night. Jesse presses her back against the wall.

Breathes. She inches around the corner...

... and from the shadows, gazes at figures knocking on

the solitary door in the wall up ahead, with the dull

blue light mounted above. The slot in the door slides

open. A moment later, the figures vanish inside.

A moment later, two couples approach, dressed in black.

Jesse takes a deep breath, then...

... falls into step behind them. One knocks on the door.

A face peers out at the group. Steps back. The door

opens. Jesse follows the couples in. The door shuts

behind her.

The music is part blues, part Kurt Weil, part Gothic,

dark and ominous as if the pianist knew exactly the sort

of trouble Jesse was in. The bar is comprised of

elaborately-carved Chinese dragons, a TV mounted

incongruously in the corner showing a silent Vampire

Lestat video.

Couples dance cheek to cheek, rotating like figures on a

music box. Another couple is necking hot and heavy in

the corner. Jesse stares at the patrons of this vampire

coven. Many of the faces are unnaturally pale, gaunt.

Their eyes shine with a strange, reflective light. Jesse

moves through the tables, passing a mortal YUPPIE-TYPE

sitting with a VAMPIRE GIRL he's obviously just met that

night.

The Vampire Girl smiles, glances up at Jesse as she

passes. Jesse looks away quickly, moves on... The

pianist watches as she passes by. The couple necking in

the corner begins to get even more aroused. A mortal

girl sips on her drink while her lover, a vampire, kisses

her shoulder, her throat...

Unaware that she is being watched, Jesse continues her

circuit.

as Jesse approaches the bar where three PUNK VAMPIRES

slouch, looking up at Lestat on the video.

We watch the Punk Vampires and hear every word they say

as the other SOUNDS FADE AWAY.

REVEAL unknown POV. A vampire, face hidden behind a

hood, seems extremely interested in what the Punk

Vampires are saying.

A young girl dressed in Goth gear sits down at the bar.

Punk Vampire #1 turns and smiles insincerely at her as

she stares up at Lestat on the TV. Getting a sudden

chill, the Goth girl takes her drink and moves back into

the crowd as the vampire looks after her with murderous

eyes.

reaches the Punk Vampires. They fall silent as she

pauses at the bar. She turns, stares at the necking

couple...

... a brief glimpse of the tiny trickle of blood on the

mortal girl's neck as she swoons... an even briefer flash

as her vampire lover comes up for air, his lips and teeth

shiny with blood...

stares, horrified.

Jesse turns to see Punk Vampire #1 leaning towards her.

The Punk Vampire pulls down her collar.

Jesse finds herself surrounded by the three Vampires.

She shakes her head, too frightened to get out a

response.

She peers into the darkness, starts moving towards the

door...

Finds herself blocked by Punk Vampire #2.

Jesse looks around, trying not to panic. Pale faces,

pale eyes stare at her. A long, terrible pause...

Suddenly --

leans forward, surprised, studies this strange mortal,

fascinated.

The Punk Vampires laugh.     Jesse desperately tries to

cover her terror.

Jesse again heads for the door. But Punk Vampire #1 has

appeared in front of her. She stares at him, terrified.

Jesse watches the other Punk Vampires slowly begin to

close in on her. As she speaks, she slowly edges to the

door...

She inches toward the door, desperately stalling. Their

white faces gleam menacingly as they close in. She

struggles to get the words out...

The Punk Vampires pause, staring at her, as her words

sink in. The hooded figure leans forward revealing his

face...

It is Lestat. He stares at Jesse, amazed. Jesse glances

desperately at the door. It's just a few feet away now.

All around her, vampires are turning to look. The Punk

Vampires stare at her, eyes narrowing. Jesse is now

inches from the door. She can barely breathe. Punk

Vampire #1 gazes at her, his confusion suddenly turning

to anger.

He bares his fangs. Jesse bolts out the door... PAN

ACROSS vampire faces staring after Jesse TO Lestat

who gazes at her, absolutely entranced. He watches the

Punk Vampires head after Jesse.

Jesse hurries up the alley. Breaks into a run. But the

three Punk Vampires from the bar have somehow gotten

outside. They land in front of her, beside her, behind

her. Heart racing, she shakes with fear. They close in,

smiling.

He runs his hand up and down her body. Jesse starts to

shake. She breaks out in a cold sweat. The others grin.

He picks her up by the throat. Her legs flail in the

air...

Suddenly, the two vampires turn and hiss like cats. Jesse

hits the flagstones hard with a grunt. She gasps for

air, looks up as the vampires are hurled out of the alley

by an invisible force. Jesse alone, turns, still woozy.

Finds herself staring at...

Lestat...

Jesse's eyes open wide, entirely stunned.

He drinks her in with his eyes, marking the soft paleness

of her skin, her long, red hair, the flush on her cheeks,

her pulsing jugular.

Jesse stares into his entrancing grey eyes, tries to

gather herself together, half fearful, half titillated.

They gaze at each other, the air suddenly electric.

Jesse notices her rucksack cast aside by the Punk

Vampires -- Lestat's journal sticks out. She glances at

Lestat. He mustn't see it. She steps away, tries to

distract him.

He gazes at her. Moves closer, breathing her in, making

her flustered. He smiles.

He circles her. Jesse is shaking, terrified. Enjoying

the game, Lestat smiles, moves closer. But Jesse suddenly

blurts out.

That stops Lestat. He gazes at Jesse, surprised.

Recovers his composure. Stares at her intensely,

regarding her anew.

As she speaks, Lestat guides Jesse over to a pile of

crates. She stares at some beer bottles shattered on

the top of one. He guides her hand downward, closer to

the shattered glass.

He stares at her, the words oddly familiar, then scrapes

her finger along the bits of broken glass, gravel. She

gasps with pain...

Lestat gazes at the drops of blood that appear,

glistening on Jesse's finger...

He stares into her eyes, slowly brings her bleeding

finger toward his mouth.

As her bleeding thumb gets closer and closer to his

mouth...

As he brings her finger closer and closer to his mouth.

Their eyes bore into each other, he stares at her rosy

cheeks, the cold sweat on her forehead, taking in her

remarkable, if foolhardy daring. Her eyes gazing

straight into his...

He brings her bleeding finger into his mouth.       She may

swoon.

Lestat's eyes burn as he tastes her for mortality, her

fragility a brief second, listening to her blood.

there's something there that surprises him as he gazes

at this mortal girl. He feels something. Desire...

Then her blood speaks to him as Lestat's eyes fall on her

rucksack. He sees the journal. It all falls into place.

Lestat's lip curls in anger. He shoves Jesse away.

Wipes his mouth. The mood suddenly changes.

She stares at him, found out. He turns from her,

laughing, but not the kind of laugh to make Jesse

think all's well.

Jesse slowly nods, admitting to all.    He shakes his head.

He waves her off, dismissive.

He turns, walks away. Jesse lets out a sigh of relief,

then stares after him. She hesitates, then suddenly

calls out:

A pause in his gait. But he keeps walking away.       Jesse

hesitates again, but still calls out.

But he keeps going.    She takes one last chance --

Suddenly Lestat spins. Stares at the fragile mortal girl

risking everything. Flash. Jesse gasps.

He now stands right before her. He grabs her, pulls her

to him close, tight, hard. He could just snap her neck

and be done with it.

He pushes her away.       She gasps, humbled by his physical

power.

She retrieves her rucksack. Starts away. As she

reaches the end of the alley, she pauses, takes a breath,

turns back, daring everything.

He turns back, stares at her, astonished.

A beat, then Lestat shakes his head, laughs at the

absurdity of what she's saying. But Jesse is undaunted.

That stops him. Their eyes bore into each other again.

Electric. Then Lestat hisses at her, the inhuman sound

filling the alley. Lestat lunges, fangs bared. Jesse

screams. Turns. Runs. Finds herself --

EXT. BUSY STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION

In the midst of traffic on a busy street.     People walking

by.

She stands there a moment, happy, amazed to be alive.

Then it sinks in. She realizes -- Lestat let her go.

She glances back at the alley, but Lestat is gone.

She brings her finger to her mouth, slowly sticks it in,

tastes her own blood, shivers with fear -- and something

else -- desire.

What she doesn't see is...

Lestat in the shadows, silently watching her. He gazes

at her youth, her bright eyes, her daring, her mortal

passion. She has affected him.

He watches as she turns and runs away.

The CAMERA TRACKS WITH two young GROUPIES as they walk

through the lavish palace.

They crack up.

Lestat enters the bedroom. Behind him, Lestat's dressing

room stretches off into the distance, rows of beautiful

suits made from the finest wools and silks. The

gradation of colors is spectacular. Peering out at the

near-dawn light, a look of loneliness clouds his face.

He crosses to the closet. Opens a panel to reveal a

safe. Stares at it a moment. Punches in the code. It

swings open to reveal something wrapped carefully in

black velvet. Lestat unwraps it delicately. It's the

ancient violin.

He quickly puts the violin back, closes the safe door.

He shakes his head, tries to laugh it off. But a shadow

remains on his face. Lestat hears a gasp. Turns. Roger

has just entered.

Lestat gazes at the door, pensive.

Lestat smiles at the clumsy attempt to protect the girls.

Roger nods, trying to hide his nervousness.      Lestat

smiles...

CAMERA MOVES OUT INTO the lavish room TOWARD the two

girls who are now dreamy, floating with the effect of the

joint they are smoking. REVEAL Lestat as he approaches

the girls. Looking up, they smile childishly at their

host, then fall about laughing.

He smiles.    She offers a joint.

Lestat calmly shakes his head.

Circling the couches, he just smiles.

The girls laugh nervously.       Lestat laughs dangerously...

She opens her legs provocatively. Pacing across the

room, he stands before the girls. He curls his finger

around the first groupie's hair when a shadow crosses

his face.

Losing enthusiasm, Lestat walks away and drops himself

onto a couch. With a clap of his hands, the TV switches

ON. He silently watches one of his video clips.

The girls glance at each other, then, giggling, crawl

over toward Lestat. Groupie #1 slides her hand slowly

up his leg.

She reaches for his belt. But he recoils at the touch

and slides off the couch onto the floor with grace.

The Second Groupie giggles as well...

And at once they both start after Lestat on all fours

to tickle him. He gazes at them, torn, then laughs at the

sight and gets down on...

All fours as well as he leads them around the room in a

childish game.

They try to tickle him but he stays just a few feet ahead of

them the whole time. The girls giggle as they pursue...

Lestat crawling just   ahead of them across the floor

and... Up the wall.    The teenagers keep giggling as they

watch him ascend the   wall like a spider. They can't

believe what they're   seeing as...

Lestat reaches the wall's top and now crawls upside-down

across the ceiling. The girls begin to giggle and half-cry...

as they arch their necks all the way back to see...

Lestat crawling down the opposite wall. The girls sit

open-mouthed with terror as Lestat reaches the ground --

He heads straight for them.

The girls begin to scream... SCREAMS CONTINUE OVER...

BLACKNESS.

CLOSE ON Jesse, her face bright, walking quietly, talking

intensely on a cell phone.

Holding the phone, stunned.   He leans forward, speaks

intensely, his face grave.

She hangs up. Can't quite believe what she's doing.

REVEAL Jesse is heading for a boarding gate at Heathrow

airport. She hands over the ticket, boards the plane.

in his inner sanctum. He looks at all the paintings.

His neat, protected world. It's as if Marius is taunting

him. He slams his fist down in fury. Stares at the

rising dust.

Jesse puts on headphones, listens to LESTAT'S MUSIC.   As

she opens the journal, LESTAT'S MUSIC DISSOLVES INTO

VIOLIN...

Lestat standing alone in the bedroom in a deep reverie,

playing the violin, with incredible passion.

His playing picks up speed, the bow bending across the

strings with a maestro's speed and precision.

Suddenly, the bow flies out of his hand and slides across

the floor, jamming itself under an old bookcase. Lestat

comes out of his spell, walks across the room to the

bookcase, bends down to cleave the bow out from under it.

Having difficulty, he pushes back an old rug on the floor

when he sees something...

Carved into one of the floorboards is an Egyptian eye

with a hole dug out of its iris. Stepping aside, he

realizes he is standing on a manhole. A beat ON Lestat

as he thinks... Poking his finger through the hole of the

Egyptian eye, he lifts the manhole to reveal a steep set

of steps leading down into the villa's basement.

No answer. Lestat looks around wondering what to do.

Taking a candelabra off the table, he ventures down the

stairs, peering down into the darkness.

Lestat negotiates a circling flight of stone steps,

winding its way into the lowest bowels of the villa,

still carrying his violin.

Lestat finds himself facing a steeply descending

passageway that stretches into darkness. He tests the

stones ahead of him with caution...

Suddenly, the sconces along the passageway come to

life... In quick succession, they flare up and burn with

an unnatural intensity. Lestat, struck with curiosity

and wonder, puts down his candelabra and ventures forth.

We FOLLOW Lestat as he rounds the corner and stops.

There is an open foyer area leading to two great wooden

doors, held firm by a tree-sized carved wooden bolt that

bars the doors shut from the outside.

Suddenly, the BOLT flies up and SPLINTERS with a

SHRIEKING CRACK. The doors fly open revealing a bright

light from within... Lestat, apprehensive, continues

towards the open doorway.

Lestat enters, squinting through the bright light from

scores of burning sconces. At the far end of the

sanctuary Lestat makes out the shape of two statues,

an Egyptian man and an Egyptian woman sitting stone

still, seemingly staring straight at him, AKASHA and

her King, ENKIL. We recognize Akasha from the sketches

in Talbot's office. Stepping closer, they appear not to

be statues at all but rather alabaster humans with the

palest skin imaginable. His eyes widen at the sight of

their clothes -- the most valuable Egyptian finery;

bracelets of gold, headdresses of incredible gems,

clothes of silk. Staring up into their faces, Lestat

is struck with the realization...

Lestat is drawn to the woman -- her form and beauty is

exquisite even in its absolute stillness. As if this

statue had just asked him to play, Lestat holds out his

violin.

Her eyes still bore into him. Lestat smiles.   He raises

his violin and begins to play.

The song of the VIOLIN ECHOES around the walls...

Lestat plays, with increasing abandon...

Akasha and Enkil sit frozen...

Lestat plays and plays, lost in the music.   He throws a

glance up at the throne and stops...

Akasha is moving...

Slowly, her eyelids pull back to reveal pale green eyes.

Lestat stares in amazement... Her arm rises up, her wrist

HEARTBEAT begins... Lestat moves toward her as if

beckoned. A green vein appears beneath the marble

surface of her skin. The vein pulses as the blood

courses around. The HEARTBEAT POUNDS LOUDER, DEEPER.

The sound fills Lestat's head as he is drawn closer to

Akasha's wrist. Lowering himself, as if genuflecting,

Lestat bends closer to the vein which looks like the very

font of life to him...

Marius sits under the stars, painting, when his hand

begins to tremble... Suddenly, he drops his brush,

startled by some unexpected feeling that passes through

him. He stands bolt upright as a frightening GUST of

WIND sweeps across him.

Lestat sinks his teeth into Akasha's vein, drawing in the

unimaginable font. A burst of image and color floods

into him, as...

of Ancient Egypt... power... supremacy... slavery... all

impressionistic, subliminal... the bright burning sun, red

lips, blood spurting like a fountain...

END OF IMAGES.

in the sanctuary, hovering over Lestat, who lays on the

stone floor in a catatonic state, staring. Marius looks

down upon him, the sconces above blazing high with

flames. Marius's VOICE ECHOING furiously...

Lestat lays in bed, feverish, his skin paler than ever.

At the foot of the bed stands Marius.

The young vampire's eyes bulge open in the grip of some

incredible sensation, smiling the most wicked of smiles.

Lestat's chest heaves upward, pulling his body with it,

only to be jerked back by the manacles that hold him to

the bed.

Lestat writhes with a physical delight that is almost

painful. Lestat realizes he is shackled to the bed with

manacles and chains. Struggles against them.

Lestat struggles with all his might. One of his manacles

splits, releasing a leg. Marius stares, surprised.

Lestat still struggles.       The manacles strain.

Suddenly pressing the knife to Lestat's throat --

Lestat stares up at him.

Lestat gazes up at him, taking it in.       Marius moves

slowly away.

Lestat roars and struggles against his manacles.

Marius stares at him, shocked.

Marius moves at super-speed, grabs Lestat by the neck,

and pins him down.

Lestat, lost, looks at Marius, his eyes intoxicated with

Akasha's blood. Marius steps back. Looks at his

fledgling with great sadness, anger, disappointment.

Marius turns his back on Lestat.     Lestat stares after

him.

THROUGH the balcony we see the last warm colors of the

sunset vanish into the blue of night. Lestat awakens,

his manacles removed. He stretches, shakes his head, as

if clearing his head, but something causes him to stop...

Something has changed. Marius's paints have gone. Some

of his paintings remain, but his easel and paint boxes

are removed, leaving splattered outlines on the faded

marble floor.

No response.

Lestat runs down the staircase, which is dark except for

the candelabra in his hand.

Lestat throws open the doors and enters to find... Akasha

and Enkil have been taken, as have the thrones and most

of the royal paraphernalia.

Lestat runs down the beach, the sand showing no

footprints.

Lestat screams into the darkness, filled with despair,

grief. He disappears off into the night.

Lestat looks up from feeding on a mortal. Wipes the

blood from his mouth, gazes into the dark night.

