FADE IN

ON A RINGING TELEPHONE.

A hand reaches for it, bringing the receiver up to the face of

CASEY BECKER, a young girl, no more than sixteen.  A friendly face

with innocent eyes.

Silence.

CLICK! She hangs up the phone.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal

Casey in a living room, alone.  She moves from the living room to

the kitchen.  It's a nice house.  Affluent.

The phone RINGS again.

INT.  KITCHEN

Casey grabs the portable.

Casey stands in front of a sliding glass door.  It's pitch black

outside.

CLICK!  Casey hangs up.  A grin on her face.

EXT.  CASEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING

A big country home with a huge sprawling lawn full of big oak

trees.  It sits alone with no neighbors in sight.

The phone RINGS again.

INT.  KITCHEN

Popcorn sizzles in a pot on the stove.  Casey covers it with a

lid, reaching for the portable phone.

Casey smiles, playing along, innocently.

He's flirting with her.  Casey moves away from the stove and takes

a seat at the kitchen counter, directly in front of the glass

door.

Casey thinks for second.

Casey smiles, twirling her hair.

Casey spins around like lightning facing the glass door.

Casey CLICKS on the outside light.  A flood light illuminates the

backyard.  Her eyes survey the grounds.  But it's empty.  No one's

there.  She turns the light out.

On the stove, the popcorn POPS.

CLICK!  Casey hangs up.  She checks the glass door making sure

it's locked and then moves to the stove as...

THE PHONE RINGS.

She slides the popcorn from the stove, reaching for the phone.

CLICK.  She hangs up.  The phone RINGS again.  She grabs it.

Total silence.  He has gotten her full attention.

Casey eyes the glass doors, then looks up the hallway to the front

doors...moving to it.  It's unlocked.  She bolts it.

Casey moves her face flush against the door, her eye looking

through the peephole.

ANGLE THROUGH PEEPHOLE.

A distorted view of the front porch.  It is empty.  She relaxes a

bit, relieved.

Casey's jaw drops as total fear storms her face.  She hangs up the

phone, throwing it down on a side table when...

THE DOORBELL CHIMES.

Casey leaps out of her skin.  She turns to the door as it chimes

again.

Another CHIME.  She moves to it.

No answer.  Fuck this.  It's time for the police.  She goes for

the portable phone. Just as she picks it up...

IT RINGS.

Casey almost drops it, losing her breath...

She brings it to her ear with trembling hands, saying

nothing...listening, waiting...

A long silence.  And then.

Casey clutches the wall, nearly collapsing.  She tries her

damndest to hang tough.

CLOSE ON her face, her mind thinking, calculating...

Busted.  She holds steady.

Silence.  Casey buckles at the knees, losing it.

Casey, terrified, forces herself to move.. staggering to the

kitchen...to the glass doors.  Her shaky hand finds the light

switch...she hits it.  The back yard is lit.

Sitting in a lawn chair in the middle of the backyard is a big,

line backer of a guy, her boyfriend...

STEVE

tied and gagged.  He's been roughed up, but he's alive.

CLOSE ON his eyes..wide in fear..staring at his girlfriend,

pleading with her.

Casey SCREAMS.  Her hand moves to the lock on the door.

Terror rides Casey's face.  She's petrified.

Her eyes search the yard, combing bushes, trees.  He could be

anywhere-anywhere.

Tears find their way, streaming down Casey's face.

A long silence.  Casey touches the glass...staring at STEVE...this

big jock of a guy is crying too.

Her hand goes to the switch...Steve tugs and pulls at his

straps...as if begging her...his face sweat and tears...

CLICK

He disappears in the darkness.  Casey moves away from the glass,

back toward the living room, unbelieving, horrified.

Three curtainless windows line one wall.  Casey crouches down

behind the couch, tipping a lamp cord from it's socket, darkening

the room.  Her body quivers.

Casey goes silent...a nervous wreck...she can barely speak much

less think.

Casey is SOBBING.

Casey has officially reached hysteria, petrified beyond all

reality.

Suddenly...through tears...Godsent...

Casey SIGHS...relieved.

Casey is a blubbering, wet mass on the floor.

A mad smile purses Casey's lips.  She knows this.  She leaps up,

through tears, screaming...

A slight PAUSE.

Casey is stupefied.

This implication sends Casey running to the kitchen...to the glass

doors.  She flips on the porch lights to see...

STEVE

eyes wide, sitting in the lawn chair...his belly gaping open...a

mass of blood and ripped flesh...his insides lay on the ground

between his feet...steam rising.

A SCREAM erupts from the bottom of her soul as Casey collapse on

the floor...nearly passing out.  CLOSE ON her face...pale and

ghostly white.  She SOBS.

She doesn't answer.  A long, maddening silence.  Casey reaches up

and CLICKS off the light, making Steve go away...wishing,

hoping...

Casey is curled up on the floor like an infant, rocking slowly

back and forth.

From where Casey sits she can see both front and back doors.  She

deliberates...with her last bit of strength she tries to

strategize.  Eyeing both, the front door...the back door trying to

decide between the two.

In the darkness, Casey crawls to the kitchen counter-she leans up

and grabs a long, sharp knife.

Casey looks around her...she looks down the hall to the front

door...then turns back to the kitchen glass door as it suddenly...

SHATTERS TO BITS...

as a lawn chair come flying through it.  Exploding glass sprays

everywhere.

This incites Casey like fire.  She springs to her feet...bolting

out of the kitchen as a SHADOW moves quickly through the shattered

doorframe.

ANGLE ON CASEY

Somewhere in the house, back flat against a window, listening to

FEET ON CRACKING GLASS.  She turns and unlocks the latch, quietly

sliding it up. She can hear him move through the foyer...to the

front door.

Casey lifts herself up and puts her legs through the window.  She

holds the knife in one hand, the phone in the other.

Casey eases out the window, fumbling, dropping the knife back in

the house.  She starts to reach for it.  Fuck it, she takes off...

EXT.  SIDE OF HOUSE

Casey it at the back corner of the house.

Casey eases along a narrow path between a tall fence and the side

of the house...going for the front yard.  She must pass the three

curtainless windows.  She gets to the first one and peeks in...

The FIGURE has pulled open the foyer closet, searching for her.

Casey creeps along, to the next window, she looks in...the FIGURE

is completely on the other side of the room moving toward the hall

that leads to other parts of the house.

She moves further along the house...squeezing by hedges...to the

third window...she peeks in to the FIGURE...

STARING BACK AT HER...

His face covered with a ghostly white mask, inches from her...his

eyes piercing through...soulless...Casey SCREAMS BLOODY MURDER as

a hand...

CRASHES through the glass window grabbing hold of her neck...she

beats at him trying to free herself...her nails dig into his

arm...she wrenches from side to side...finally breaking free as

the hands disappear inside the house...

EXT.  CORNER OF HOUSE

Casey sails around the corner of the house, eyeing the front door.

It remains closed.  Her eyes cover the sprawling country yard when

suddenly....

HEADLIGHTS APPEAR

in the distance, coming down the road towards the house...she

recognizes them instantly.  Mom...Dad...she tears off across the

yard toward them...moving like lightning...

The car turns into the driveway...Casey SCREAMS, waving madly,

rushing by a tree as...

THE GHOST MASKED FIGURE APPEARS

Casey stumbles back, catching her balance...the FIGURE moves on

her, arm poised high...a flash of silver...and Casey is struck,

across the chest.  She looks down to see her shirt blossoming

red...a look of bewilderment as she drops to one knee.

The knife rises again...Casey throws her hand forward...the blade

comes down...but it's blocked by the portable phone still in her

hand.  She turns staggering to...

EXT.  DRIVEWAY

A MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE emerge from the parked car.  They move to the

front door completely unaware of what's happening to their

daughter, only feet from them.

EXT.  FRONT YARD

Casey stumbles forward...her parents ten feet away...she opens her

mouth to scream but no sound resonates...she is beyond

words...staggering, swaying...the FIGURE moving behind her.

EXT.  FRONT DOOR

Her parents approach the door

The father discovers the front door ajar.  A puzzled look.  Casey

is right behind them with one arm outstretched.  If they'd only

turn around...

They enter the house and close the door as....

Casey collapses on the ground, clutching her bloody chest...the

FIGURE upon her.

INT.  FOYER

The father sees straight back into the kitchen...the shattered

patio door.

In a split second they're both panic stricken.  The father begins

searching the house frantically.  The mother is hysterical.

EXT.  FRONT YARD

CLOSE ON Casey...she's dragged by her feet through damp soil...the

life going fast from her body...her hand still clutching the

phone.

INT.  FOYER

Back in the house.

The mother moves  to the phone in the foyer, picks it up...There

is no dial tone.  She jiggles the base.

The...the softest...faintest voice is heard...

The husband returns to the foyer finding his wife clinging to the

phone.

The father upturns the living room.

The husband grabs hold of his wife.

The other throws the front door open and rushes out...the father

moves through the house when a SCREAM echoes out.  That of his

wife.  He tears off for the front door.

EXT.  FRONT DOOR

The father rushes out the door to find his wife, on her knees,

bent over, retching.  His eyes move beyond to a tree in the front

yard...his stomach fails him...his dinner rises...as he bares

witness to the single, most horrifying sight he'll ever see.

That of his only daughter as she hangs from a big oak

tree...strung up...very much dead...her stomach ripped open.

BLACKOUT!

BEGIN MAIN TITLES

FADE IN:

INT.  BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT

A teenage girl's room.  Neat and pinkish.  On the bed, amongst age-

old stuffed animals lie opened school books. The CAMERA PANS to a

desk against the wall where...

SIDNEY PRESCOTT

a young girl of 17, sits, her face glued to the computer monitor

in front of her.  CLOSE ON her face.  Sharp and clever with deep,

lonely eyes.  She's comfortable in a plain, flannel nightgown.

Her hands are at work, typing feverishly, when suddenly...

CRASH-BOOM

A noise behind her.  She turns abruptly, eyeing an open window

across the room. A SCRATCHING sound.  She stands and moves toward

it.

EXT.  WINDOW

Sidney sticks her head out the window.  The late night wind hits

her face as a SHADOW appears just to the left of her, a hand

reaches out, grabs her and suddenly a FIGURE is on top of her...

INT.  BEDROOM

Sid SCREAMS...pulling away from the figure...breaking free,

falling back onto the floor.

Sid looks up to see...

BILLY LOOMIS

A young, strapping boy of seventeen.  Handsome and alluring.  A

star quarterback/ class president type of guy.  He sports a smile

that could last for days.

Billy pulls himself through the window.

Suddenly...

The bedroom door BURSTS open.  The doorknob catches on the open

closet door behind it jamming it, holding it in place.

Billy quickly rolls out of sight behind the bed.  Sidney unjams

the door to reveal...

MR. PRESCOTT, late 40's, a severe presence.  A distracted man,

nervous and pre-occupied.

He gives the bedroom a quick once over.

Sidney distracts him, giving him a peck on the cheek.

He gives her a wink and pulls the door closed.  Billy reappears.

Billy takes a flying leap and lands on the bed.

She snuggles up next to him, planting a kiss on his lips.

Passionate and gentle.  He, however, reacts like a shark, moving

on top of her, his hands everywhere as he presses into

her...Sidney breaks away.

Billy sits up.  His heart isn't racing...it's POUNDING.

Sweat has popped out all over his forehead, his breathing heavy.

He moves to the window.  She follows, motioning to his wound.

She gives him a kiss goodnight.  Sweet and simple.

She kisses him again as he eases through the window.

She pulls her flannel gown open for a split second...flashing her

left breast.  His mouth drops open...surprise, shock.  Their eyes

meet.  They share a smile.

INT.  SIDNEY'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

CLOSE on Sidney snuggling her pillow, sleeping peacefully when...

THE RADIO ALARM BLASTS from the night table loud enough to wake

the dead.  Sidney bolts up.

CLICK.  Sidney, quick with the reflexes, shuts it off instantly.

A car trunk SLAMS shut outside.

Sidney pulls herself out of bed and leans to the window just in

time to see her Dad jumping in his car.  She half waves down at

him but he doesn't see her.  He's as good as gone, pulling out of

the driveway and disappearing down the road.

A moment as Sidney stands at the window, staring out after him.

EXT.  SCHOOL - MORNING

CLOSE ON A SIGN

"BAYBORO HIGH SCHOOL.  HOME OF THE FIGHTING BULLDOGS"

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL a picture perfect small town

school.  Old and charming.  Students come and go, moving about.

Nothing unusual, except for the...

six police cars, four news vans, flashing cameras, and crowds and

crowds of lookie-loo's gathered just off campus.

EXT.  SIDEWALK

Sidney approaches the school seeing the commotion.  Four different

REPORTERS stand in front of four different cameras giving four

different news reports.

She moves passed a policeman standing guard.  Her interest peaked,

she stops at the first reporter who is...

GALE WEATHERS

Thirties.  He smart face is overshadowed by a flashy smile and a

massive mane of chemically enhanced hair.

ON SIDNEY.  Moved, disturbed.  From behind, a finger taps her

shoulder.  She spins around to see...

Tatum Riley, same age, feisty, carefree.

They break away from the crowd and head for school.

Sidney looks back at Gale, her face deeply pained.

INT.  CLASSROOM - LATER

A frumpy old woman, MRS. TATE, faces her class.  Her hands clasped

together.  A tragic look upon her face.

Sidney sits near the rear of the room.  The desk in front of her

sits vacant.  Sidney can't take her eyes of it.

The door opens and a student opens with a slip of paper.  He hand

s it to Mrs. Tate.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE

The room is at capacity...wall to wall with police, and the likes.

Some sit, stand, lean...

SHERIFF BURKE, a round man in his fifties, wipes the stress from

his face.

A young officer looks at the clipboard.  This is DEPUTY RILEY,

better known as DEWEY.  He's a big guy, 20's, handsome in a

scrubbed-clean boyish way.

Sheriff Burke gestures to bring her in.  PRINCIPAL HIMBRY, 50's,

an old codger of a man wearing a sour face speaks up.

Himbry stops short, seeing Sidney in the doorway.  He rises and

seats her.

Dewey shakes his head seriously.

Sidney eyes them all nervously.

EXT.  SCHOOL COURTYARD - LATER

Students sit at outdoor tables eating lunch.  Crowded at one table

is the "gang".  This consists of Sidney, Billy and Tatum.

Next to Tatum, sits her boyfriend STUART, with his arm draped

across her back.  He's a Billy wannabe.  Almost the jock, almost

handsome, almost cool.  He tries way to hard.

Across the table is the fifth wheel, RANDY.  A tall and gangly kid

with no such Billy-like aspirations.  A witty jokester who

elevates geek to coolness.

Sidney flinches.

All eyes turn to Sidney.  A serious silence.  And then:

Sidney shivers down to her soul.  The whole table rolls their eyes

at Stu.

Stu leans over and socks Randy in the arm.

Stu's taken back, a little off guard.

Tatum turns to Stu, surprised.

Stu nibbles at Tatum's neck.

Stu cracks up at his own joke.  The others just MOAN.  Sidney is

about to crawl out of her skin, trying hard to ignore it all.

EXT.  SIDNEY'S HOUSE - LATER

A huge two story country home with a spacious lawn.

A yellow school bus stops in front of the house and Sidney steps

off.

The house looks big and lonely as Sidney moves up the walk to the

front door.

INT.  BEDROOM - LATER

Sidney is on the telephone.

Sidney hangs up.  She takes a seat at her computer and boots it

up.  She sits in front of it staring at the blue screen...her own

reflection staring back.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - LATER

Sidney comes down the stairs, her arms carrying a change of

clothes, toothbrush, make-up...

She opens the hall closet and pulls a small overnight bag from the

top shelf.  Moving into the living room she loads it up, plopping

down on the sofa, hitting the TV remote.

CLOSE ON THE SCREEN

A news reporter fades in.

Sidney switches channels.

The channel switches again.  Gale weathers appears, standing in

front of the school.  Her white teeth gleaming.

An old black and white snapshot fills the screen-a woman,

beautiful and familiar.

CLOSE ON SIDNEY

eyes frozen, mesmerized by the image.  Suddenly she CLICKS the TV

off.  Her eyes go to the clock on the end table.  5:45 PM.  Her

eyes then move to the framed photo next to it...the same black and

white photo stares at her...a healthy, vibrant woman.  An older

version of Sidney.

Sidney curls up on the sofa closing her eyes tight...

INT.  LIVING ROOM - LATER

The clock on the end table reads 7:15 PM.  Sidney is fast asleep

on the couch.  The phone RINGS.  Sidney leaps up grabbing the

portable phone.

She hangs up the phone.  It immediately RINGS again.

IT'S HIM.  THE VOICE FROM BEFORE.

Sidney thinks, trying to place his voice.  It sounds a little

distorted.

A brief silence.

This gives her pause.  She moves to the window and pulls aside the

drapes.

ANGLE THROUGH WINDOW.  She can't quite see all of the porch.

Sidney goes to the front door.  She unlocks the bolt, unsnags the

chain, and pulls the door open...revealing the front porch...

COMPLETELY EMPTY.

She steps out onto it, phone still in hand.  A single light shines

overhead illuminating the porch, but little beyond.  Darkness is

all around.

Sidney peers out into the darkness past thick shrubs that grow on

either side of the porch.

She sticks her finger up her nose, pretending to pick.  Silence.

No answer.

Sidney stops dead in her tracks, speechless.

His seriousness unnerves her.  Sid flies off the handle.

She hangs up on him.  Moves back inside the house.  Locks, chains,

and bolts the door when...

A FIGURE COMES LEAPING OUT OF THE HALL CLOSET

rushing her, ramming into her side..the phone flies..the FIGURE is

on top of her as she goes down...SCREAMING...

She looks up to see the FIGURE, darkly dressed with a pale,

distorted face, white and ghostly...a mask.

Her instincts surface and she kicks up with her foot making the

contact with his leg...he topples over...coming right at her, his

hand finding her neck.  Suddenly, along, silver blade appears

above her.

Sidney pulls, jerks, twists...finally she lifts her torso forward

knocking the FIGURE off her...sending him reeling into the living

room.  Wasting no time, Sidney leaps to her feet.

She moves to the front door, unlocks it...pulls it open...it

catches on the chain.  Shit!  She pushes it closed again looking

behind her..the FIGURE has risen, knife in hand.

Sidney pulls on the chain and then-inexplicably turns and...

RUNS UP THE STAIRS.  The FIGURE right behind her.

INT.  UPSTAIRS LANDING

The FIGURE leaps at Sidney taking hold of her foot, she grabs

madly at the wall...her hands grasp a framed painting-a quiet

country home, subdued colors, done in oils-she rips it from the

wall swinging it behind her...

It catches the FIGURE head on, smashing against his skull, sending

him backwards, tumbling down the stairs.  Sidney races to her

bedroom...

INT.  BEDROOM

She locks the door shut, the pulls her closet door open, placing

the edge right at the door knob just as...

THE FIGURE POUNDS AGAINST THE BEDROOM DOOR...

ramming it, it rips open, but the closet door catches it in a

crazy vice-like hold.

Sidney grabs the desk phone.  It's dead...off the hook downstairs.

The figure rushes the door several times..the frame splinters..but

won't give.

Sidney is at her computer, she punches at the keypad madly.

CLOSE ON SCREEN AS WORDS APPEAR.

The knife slashes through the crack in the door wildly.

ON SCREEN AGAIN

Sidney presses SEND when it occurs to her-all is quiet.  The

FIGURE is gone.  A fearful silence.  She looks around...the only

sound her own rapid, terrified BREATHING.

ON THE SCREEN

Suddenly a NOISE at the window...Sidney looks up to see...

BILLY

her boyfriend, staring at her, surprised.

Billy pulls himself through the window.  As he does, a small black

object falls from his dark jeans.  It hits the floor as Sidney

eyes it...a sleek, compact cellular phone.

Sidney stops in her tracks.  Their eyes meet...an eternity.  A

SIREN is heard in the distance.  Sidney bolts...

Billy reaches for her.  Sidney unblocks the bedroom door and tears

out of the room.

INT.  LANDING

Sidney nearly falls down the stairs...

INT.  FOYER

She rips the chain off the door, pulls it open, coming face to

face with a white, ghostly mask.

A massive SCREAM erupts from her gut as...

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK

to find Dewey-Deputy Riley, holding it.  Red lights flash, sirens

BLAST vas car after car surrounds the house.

Sidney falls into the safety of Dewey's arms.

EXT.  FRONT YARD - MINUTES LATER

The yard is a whirlwind of activity.  An ambulance, squad cars,

cops everywhere...

CLOSE ON BILLY'S FACE

as it SMASHES against the hood of a police car.  His hands are

being cuffed, his rights being read.

Dewey holds a car door open as Sheriff Burke steps out.

They approach Billy as he's being placed in a squad car.

The squad car disappears with Billy as another car comes to a stop

in front of the house.  Tatum gets out, freaked beyond belief.

Back to the Sheriff and Dewey as they storm across the yard.

Across the yard sits Sidney, in the back of an ambulance as

PARAMEDICS check her out.

Sheriff Burke and Riley approach.

She tries to smile but fails.

TATUM appears, barreling past an OFFICER.

Tatum rushes to her, grabbing hold of her.

Two news vans come driving up the street.

EXT.  STREET

A big, white news van comes to a stop in front of the house.  The

side door slides open and Gale Weathers hops out just in time to

see Sidney being escorted to a squad car.

Jumping from the driver's seat is KENNY, Gale's cameraman and

flunky.  An earnest young chap on the chubby side.

But it's too late.  Sidney is as good as gone.  Gale sees Tatum

moving quickly to her car.

Tatum looks up to see Gale Weathers rushing her.

Tatum hops in her car, ignoring her.

Tatum's car peels out as Kenny comes running up with his camera.

Gale spins around, flashing her pearly whites.

Gale moves back to the van leaving Kenny miffed.

INT.  POLICE STATION

A small town station.  The bull pen is a little square room with

four desks and tonight--it's hopping.  Cops everywhere.

INT.  SHERIFF'S OFFICE

Sidney sits at a desk drinking a cup of water.  She wears the

Sheriff's jacket over her shoulders.  Dewey approaches.

Sidney stares blankly, numb.

INT.  SHERIFF'S OFFICE

Billy sits opposite Sheriff Burke.  Next to Billy, sits his

father, HANK LOOMIS, an older version of Billy.

Billy fights tears.

Sheriff Burke eyes him up and down, very carefully.

INT.  POLICE BULL PEN - MINUTES LATER

Tatum has joined Sidney.  The sheriff's door opens and Billy is

led out by a coupla UNIFORMS.  Burke and Dewey appear in the door

watching Tatum comfort Sidney.

OUT OF EAR SHOT

Dewey turns to her, his face red.

EXT.  POLICE STATION - SIDE DOOR

The door opens and Sidney, Tatum, Dewey, and a coupla OFFICERS

exit avoiding the horde of REPORTERS that can be seen around the

corner waiting anxiously at the front entrance.

Dewey takes off.  From the darkness of the alley, Gale Weathers

appears with Kenny and his camera.  They've been waiting.

Sidney spins around to see Gale, standing, smiling at her.

Sidney's body tightens and her face goes taut.

Their eyes meet in cold familiar stare.  Sidney says nothing.

She's visibly shaking.

Dewey, in a squad car, turns into the alley and pulls up.  The

other news people have wisened up.  They begin to flock the alley.

Sidney tries to contain herself..squeezing a clenched fist.

In a blurred, unexpected instant, Sidney brings her fist forward,

SMASHING it hard into Gale Weathers's face.  The impact sends Gale

reeling backwards, knocking into Kenny as they both tumble to the

pavement.

ON SIDNEY...breathing deep, a sense of satisfaction on her face.

INT.  TATUM'S BEDROOM - LATER

A spacious bedroom.  Typical.  Tatum and Sidney lay on the bed.

They both wear night shirts.

Dewey appears in the doorway holding a bag of ice.

Sidney sits up, takes the ice, and puts it on her hand.

Dewey moves back out the door.

Dewey smiles, pulling the door closed on his way out.  Sidney lies

back down.

Sidney rolls over at her side, away from Tatum.

A telephone RINGS somewhere in the house.

A KNOCK at the door.  It opens and a friendly, graying woman pops

in.  This is MAMA RILEY.  She wears a comforting smile.

Mama Riley shakes her head sadly.

Sidney takes off out the door.  Mama Riley motions to Tatum.

Tatum shrugs.

INT.  HALLWAY

Sidney grabs the phone at the end of the hall.

IT'S HIM.  The CAMERA does a Hitchcock as Sidney's entire body

goes weak..his VOICE moving through her..invading her.  She CRIES

OUT.

Mama Riley turns in the doorway.  Tatum comes bolting out of the

bedroom.

Mama Riley BEATS on a closed bedroom door.

CLICK.

Dewey flies out of his room wearing only his boxers...holding his

gun.

The phone goes dead.  Sidney stands frozen.

EXT.  BAYBORO MAIN STREET - DAWN - ESTABLISHING

The morning sun shines high over Bayboro Townsquare.  Cars come to

life, townsfolk stir as the picture postcard community awakens

from a restless sleep.

INT.  KITCHEN - MORNING

Sidney and Tatum sit at the kitchen table, dressed and ready for

school as Mama Riley serves up breakfast.  A small television sits

on the counter BLARING.

Dewey, in uniform, stands near the door, talking on the phone.

From the TV, Sidney hears her name, "SIDNEY PRESCOTT..."  All eyes

go to the television.

INSERT of COTTON WEARY, in prison fatigues.  A once handsome man,

now haggard and worn.

Dewey is off the phone.

Riley shakes his head "no".

EXT.  SCHOOL STREET - LATER

Once again, REPORTERS line the street attacking students as they

make their way to school, asking questions, hungry for that

teenage insight.

Dewey's patrol jeep cruises by.  Sidney watches from the

passenger's window.

INT.  PATROL CAR

Dewey pulls up in front of the school.  Tatum hops out while Sid

lingers, suddenly unsure.  Dewey takes notice.

Sidney forces herself out of the jeep as a microphone is shoved in

her face...

Dewey leaps from the car, intercepting the reporter.

Sidney eyes the newsvan that's pulled up behind her.  The side

door slides open and Gale Weathers steps out.

She heads over to Gale.

EXT.  NEWSVAN - STREET

Sidney, puts her head down, hiding her face...avoiding other

reporters as she makes her way to...

Gale who sits in the open door, checking her face in a mirror.

Makeup tries hard to hide Sid's handwork-a swollen black and blue

right cheek.

Gale spots Sidney immediately and leaps to her feet.

Sidney throws her hands up in surrender.

Kenny's head darts out from the van.

Sidney contains herself.

Gale moves inside the van.  But Sidney is relentless.

Gale's interest is peaked.  She eyes Sidney suspiciously.

A long beat.  Sidney considers this for the millionth time.

But there's doubt in her voice.  Gale's face lights up.

Sidney clams up.

Tatum comes waltzing up.

Gale ignores her, zeroing in on Sidney, half realizing.

Sidney starts to fidget.

She take off with Tatum.  Gale calls after her.

But Sidney and Tatum have already disappeared in the crowd of

students moving across campus.

Gale looks to Kenny.

Gale's mind races with possibilities.

EXT.  SCHOOL CAMPUS - SECONDS LATER

Tatum and Sidney make their way across campus.

They move up the walk as a FIGURE falls in step behind them,

sporting a WHITE GHOST MASK.

As easy as the figure appeared, it disappears-falling out of site,

unseen by either of them.

They move up the front steps toward the main doors of the school

as the GHOST MASKED FIGURE reappears...standing at the top of the

steps...Sidney sees it first, stopping dead in her tracks.

She steps back, spinning around to find...

A GHOST FACE behind her as well, both of them approaching, closing

in on her.  Sidney starts to SCREAM when the two ghosts bust up

LAUGHING, tearing off across campus.

EXT.  STREET

In front of the school we catch up a REPORTER doing a live remote.

He holds a mask in his hand.

INT. HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Just before the bell.  The hallway is congested with students

heading to class.  Tatum is at her locker with Sidney.

Billy appears in the crowd, with Stu tagging behind.  Tatum spots

him first.

Billy and Stu approach.  Billy's face is solemn.

Sidney says nothing.  She can barely look at him.  Tatum

intervenes.

Suddenly, a SCREAM erupts.  All eyes go to a GHOST MASKED STUDENT

running down the hall, screaming wildly, running amuck.

Billy punches Stu in the side.

Sidney, clearly upset, takes off down the hall.  Billy races off

after her.

Tatum SLAMS her locker door shut as the bell RINGS.

INT.  CORRIDOR - SECONDS LATER

With first period underway, the halls have cleared.  One or two

struggling students can be seen rushing to class.

Sidney moves quickly down the hall, rounding a corner, running

smack into...

BILLY

They collide hard catching Sidney off guard, scaring the life out

of her.  She falls backwards, but Billy catches her fall.

Sidney pulls away from him quickly.  Billy feels the slight.

Sidney catches her breath.

Sidney starts to walk away but turns back, angry.

Sidney disappears through a door marked GIRL'S BATHROOM, leaving

Billy alone in the hallway.  He SMACKS his forehead, pissed at

himself.

INT.  GIRL'S BATHROOM

Large and spacious.  Closed bathroom stalls line one wall facing a

row of sinks and a huge mirror.  Sidney enters as TWO GIRLS tinkle

and talk--each from their respective stalls.

Sidney listens intently.

A toilet FLUSHES.  Sidney quickly jumps in a stall, hiding, just

as GIRL #1 appears from a stall.  She looks like that voice--a

snotty little twit.

Another toilet FLUSHES.

INSIDE THE STALL Sidney listens.  Her face weakening.

GIRL #2 appears from her stall--another twit.  They both stand in

front of the mirror adjusting two snotty faces.

From the stall, Sidney listens, her heart pounding, jaw quivering.

The two girls exit.  Sidney moves out of the stall, catching her

reflection in the mirror.

Water DRIPS somewhere from a leaky pipe as wind WHISTLES in from

the cracked transom above the bathroom door.  It sound almost like

a whisper,   "Siddneey..."

Sidney spins around.  What the...  She checks out the bathroom.

The doors to the stalls are all closed.  She bends down and scans

beneath them, looking for feet.  No one.  Nothing.

Sidney turns back to the mirror.  Suddenly...

Unmistakable this time.  The VOICE strikes Sidney like a nail

through the eye.  It comes from one of the stalls.  She stands

thunderstruck, eyeing the stalls thru the mirror.

A long, morose silence.  And then:

Sidney spins around.  Fuck no!  HE'S HERE.  Terror floods her

face.  She eyes the exit door, then the row of stalls she must

pass to get to it.

She checks under the stalls again.  Nothing...where the fuck is

he?  She takes a step forward when...

TWO FEET step down from a toilet onto the floor in the last stall.

Sidney's face draws tight as the stall door begins to CREAK open.

She bolts forward, making a break for it...but slips on the wet

floor...her feet flying out from under...

Sidney reaches out...grabs hold of a sink...saves herself from

falling...she glimpses a GHOST MASK in the mirror coming for her.

A hand grabs her shoulder as she SLAMS her body through the exit

door...narrowly escaping.

INT.  CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Sidney flies out of the bathroom door SCREAMING...burning up the

hallway, not looking back.  A TEACHER, hearing her SCREAM, peer

out from an open doorway...as Sidney sprints by him, not

stopping...running madly.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

CLOSE on a red-faced Principal Himbry as he reads someone the riot

act.

MR. HIMBRY

I'm sickened. Your whole havoc-inducing,

thieving, whoring generation disgusts me.

The CAMERA SWINGS AROUND to reveal two GHOST MASKED STUDENTS

standing at attention.  Mr. Himbry rips the mask off of one of the

student's heads.

He rips the mask off the other student.

The GHOSTS doth protest...

A deep rooted hostility has taken over Mr. Himbry's face.  Neither

student budges, scared to even breathe.

Suddenly the door BURSTS open and Sidney appears, hysterical.

Mr. Himbry rushes to her, arms outstretched.

Sidney collapses in his arms.

EXT.  SCHOOL STREET - MINUTES LATER

Dewey's patrol jeep is parked in front of the school.  He stands

in the open driver's door talking on the radio.

Dewey shuts the jeep door and heads for campus when Gale Weathers

appears, her fake face aglow.

Dewey heads for the school building. Gale scurries along side him

flirtatiously.

Dewey's eyes wander down to Gale's long legs, the way her hips

move as she walks...he's clearly distracted.

Dewey looks away, blushing a bit.

They approach the school's front entrance.  Suddenly, Mr. Himbry's

VOICE in amplified through intercoms across campus via the PA

system.  They stop to listen.

Gale speaks over Mr. Himbry's voice.

Dewey, realizing he's said too much, clams up.

Dewey starts up the school's front steps as the bell RINGS.

He turns to her earnestly as STUDENTS come pouring out the front

doors.

She smiles deliciously, gives him a wink, then struts off as

Dewey, like a nervous little school boy watches her go.

INT.  SCHOOL CORRIDOR - SECONDS LATER

School is clearing out.  The halls have begun to empty as Tatum

escorts Sidney down the hallway.

Tatum wants to believe her but...

Stu appears.

Stu moves to Tatum and gives her a kiss.

Tatum warms to the idea.

Sidney considers trying hard to be good spirited.

Stu speeds off, sliding down the empty hallway.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - LATER

Mr. Himbry sits at his desk staring at the ghosts masks before

him.  He picks one of them up, snickering.

He stands and moves to the closet next to his office door.  He

pulls it open to reveal a mirror hooked inside the door.  He tries

the mask on, pulling it over his face, looking in the mirror

when...

A KNOCK AT THE DOOR stops him.  He rips the mask off his head,

turns to his office door and opens it to reveal...

AN EMPTY DOORWAY.  He pokes his head into the outer office area

and looks around.  But no one's there.

The place is empty.  A little suspicious he closes the door,

catching his reflection in the closet mirror.  He looks at the

mask in his hands.  Jesus, even he's jumpy.  Two seconds later...

ANOTHER KNOCK AT THE DOOR.  Himbry grabs the door quickly, this

time throwing it open.  Again no one's there.  He steps out into

the outer office determined to catch a prankster.

INT.  OUTER OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Completely empty.  Mr. Himbry moves through the outer office and

into the school corridor.  The overhead lights have been turned

off and the corridor is now dark and deserted.  He looks up and

down the hall.  Only a JANITOR is seen in the distance pushing a

broom.

Mr. Himbry returns to his office.

INT.  OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Himbry reenters his office, moving to his desk, when he spots the

closet door NOW CLOSED SHUT.

This gives him a pause-he had left it open.  Hadn't he?  Suddenly,

he can't remember.  He shifts uneasy, reaching for the door knob,

pulling the door open to reveal...

AN EMPTY CLOSET.  He stands still a moment, suddenly realizing

someone could easily now be standing behind the open closet door.

Nervously, he pushes it shut to reveal...

NOTHING.  Himbry shakes away his jitters, realizing he's spooked

himself.  He continues to his desk, pushing his office door shut

when...

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE lunges from behind it...knife in hand.

Quick and easy.  Three quick jabs to the stomach and Himbry goes

down.  The GHOST MASKED FIGURE towering above him.

EXT.  TATUM'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON - LATER

The late afternoon sun is quickly disappearing.

Tatum and Sidney rock on the front porch looking out into the

small town neighborhood.  Dewey's patrol jeep is parked in the

driveway.

Despite loud music, BLARING from an inside stereo, this is a quiet

moment.

you have to start believing it.

A long silence as Sidney agonizes over all of this.  She stands up

and moves to the edge of the porch and stares out onto the

neighborhood.

Sid follows Tatum inside the house never seeing the GHOST MASKED

FIGURE that stands across the street, under a tree.  His presence

so subtle and unobtrusive you'd have to see this movie a second

time to know he was there all along.

EXT.  MAIN STREET - LATER

Stu is moving along main street when Billy comes barreling up next

to him.

Billy thumbs Stu's forehead.

They come to a building centrally located in the heart of Main

Street.  A huge, blue monstrosity that's bigger than the local

bank and post office combined. The sign in front reads

BLOCKBUSTER.

INT.  BLOCKBUSTER - CONTINUOUS

You typical Blockbuster--huge and crowded.  Randy, in his

Blockbuster get up, is busy reshelving returns when Stu appears--

knocking the videos out of his hand.

Randy refers to Billy who stands down the aisle talking to TWO

GIRLS.  (The twits from the bathroom perhaps.)

Randy moves down the aisle, reshelving videos.

Randy spins around to find Billy right behind him.  Busted.

Randy shrugs, laughing it off.

EXT.  MAIN STREET - LITTLE LATER

Dewey's patrol jeep makes it's way down mainstreet.  It's almost

dark.  The street is close to deserted.

INT.  PATROL JEEP - CONTINUOUS

Dewey's behind the wheel having a heated conversation with Tatum

while Sid stares out the window.

Sid stares out the window. CLOSED SIGNS fill the storefronts, a

few people rush to their car, in a hurry to beat curfew.

Dewey comes to a stop, parking the car in front of the police

station. He looks to Sid with a brotherly smile.

EXT.  PATROL JEEP - CONTINUOUS

They pile out of the jeep.  Dewey heads for the station.

The girls take off for the local supermarket that sits across the

street.

They approach the grocery store.  Small and simple.  Sid and Tatum

grab a shopping cart from the bin and enter the store, pushing the

cart through two sliding glass doors.

A lone CHECKOUT LADY behind the counter, big and frumpy, looks up

from counting money.

They make a bee-line for the junk food section just as the

automated doors slide shut behind them and a...

GHOST MASKED FIGURE appears, out of nowhere, standing just

outside, watching, quietly through the glass store windows.

EXT.  POLICE STATION - SHERIFF'S OFFICE

Sheriff Burke's face heats up as Deputy Riley marches in,

hurriedly.

INT.  SUPERMARKET - FEW MINUTES LATER

Sidney and Tatum push a basket through the junk food section.  The

store is completely empty.  The girls gab freely.

Sidney grabs some chips and salsa from the shelf.  Down the aisle,

through the storefront window the GHOST MASKED FIGURE still stands

watching their every move.

EXT.  SUPERMARKET

Sid pushes the cart out of the glass door with Tatum riding it.

The GHOST MASKED FIGURE is nowhere to be found.

Sid pushes the cart and Tatum across the street.

Sid pushes the cart up to Dewey's jeep.  Tatum hops off.

Sidney stops just short of a laugh.  Tatum pulls the back jeep

door, loading the groceries in.  Behind her, the GHOST MASKED

FIGURE appears, just out of their sight, behind the jeep's open

back door.

Sidney moves to the back door and closes it shut, when from

behind...

DEWEY stands.  Sid jumps, startled.

Tatum kicks the shopping cart out of the way, blindly.  It rolls

down the road by itself, gaining speed on a decline running smack

into the GHOST MASKED FIGURE who stops the cart cold with one

hand.

EXT.  COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT

Dewey's jeep makes it's way down a long, winding road.  Headlights

illuminate the thick woods that line each side.  Following behind

them at a discreet distance is a huge white newsvan.

Dewey comes to the end of the road.  It dead ends at...

STU'S HOUSE which sits alone in a clearing, big and ominous with

no neighbors in sight.  A huge old home just ripe for a night of

fun and...terror.

From the looks of things the party has already started.  Music is

BLARING. A few KIDS hang on the porch.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER

A big room with KIDS sprinkled throughout-smoking, drinking,

cutting up.  A stereo BLASTS music while the TV airs around the

clock killer coverage.

Tatum and Sid enter with groceries.  Various FRIENDS greet them.

The girls carry bags through a hallway that opens up onto an

enormous kitchen.  Stu and some GUYS are leaning over the sink

drinking beer through a funnel.

EXT.  STU'S HOUSE - ROAD

The newsvan pulls up and parks unobtrusively on the side of the

road a few feet down from the front yard.

INT.  NEWSVAN

Kenny and Gale move around inside the van.  Kenny hovers over a

control panel complete with video monitors.

Kenny picks up a compact video camera the size of his fist.  He

checks its battery pack.

Gale slides open the side door and steps out into the darkness,

not seeing the FIGURE that stands behind her.  A hand grabs her

shoulder, Gale's heart stops as she spins around to find...

Dewey, smiling, extremely pleased to see her.

Dewey considers for a whole two seconds.

Gale leans in the van, grabs the camera from  Kenny's hand, and

throws it in her bag.  She gives Kenny a wink.

INT.  KITCHEN

CLOSE ON a microwave.  Popcorn POPS inside.  CAMERA WIDENS TO

REVEAL...

Sid, Stu, and Tatum moving about the kitchen, preparing a junk

food feast.  Other TEENS pop in and out. Randy appears amongst

them.  He carries an armful of videos.

He lets the videos splatter across the kitchen counter.  Stu and

Tatum dive in.

Sidney peruses the videos.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - FEW MINUTES LATER

The party is going strong.  Ten maybe fifteen people stand, sit,

lean.  Some crowd around the floor in front of the television.

Randy is taking a vote.

Hands go up.  BICKERING AD-LIB, etc.

The doorbell RINGS.  Stu goes for it.

They look up the hallway to see Dewey and Gale standing in the

foyer.

Everyone perks up, eyeing Gale.

The GUYS in the room are drooling over Gale.  Including Stu.

Tatum takes off for the kitchen.

Gale has quickly become the focus of the party.  All eyes are on

her.

Gale eyes the bookshelf above the television.

Suddenly, Gale starts to COUGH.

Gale slips the camera from her bag--hits the ON switch and holds

it behind her...waiting for the right moment.

BACK IN FOYER

INT.  KITCHEN

Tatum is alone in the kitchen.  She empties popcorn into a bowl,

then pulls open the refrigerator...looks quickly, then

remembers...

She moves through the adjoining laundry room to the...

INT.  GARAGE

The kitchen door opens and light floods the darkened garage.

Tatum stands in the doorway searching for a light switch.

She finds a button and hits it.  BRRRRMMM!  The electric garage

door starts to rise.  Wrong switch.  She hits it again and it

closes.

She finds another switch.  CLICK.  A small lightbulb overhead

comes on, barely lighting the large two car garage, leaving

pockets of shadows along the wall.

Tatum spots the refrigerator against a far wall and heads for it,

not seeing the kitchen door, quietly, slowly, closing behind her,

sealing her off from the rest of the house.

Tatum stumbles to the refrigerator and throws it open.  Its light

casts a glow across her face.

CRASH-BOOM!

Tatum jumps, spinning around just in time to see a cat escape

through a large pet door that's built into the garage door.  She

smiles at her jumpiness.

Tatum loads up with as many beer as her hands will carry and heads

back to the kitchen.

At the kitchen door, she juggles the beer, reaching for the knob.

It's locked.

She KICKS it with her foot several times.

A moment.  No answer.

Tatum leans over and, with her elbow, hits the garage door button.

BRRRMM!  It begins to rise.

She moves towards the rising door, beer in hand.  Suddenly, CRR-

BRRRM!  The garage door RESETS, reversing direction, moving down,

closing.

Tatum spins around to see..

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE

Silhouetted in the dark, next to the kitchen door, his hand on the

switch.  Tatum at once GASPS, taken back, but then relaxes.

The FIGURE stares at her, blankly.

Tatum takes a step towards the FIGURE.

The FIGURE shakes his head slowly from side to side.

The FIGURE slowly nods.

The FIGURE slowly nods again.

Tatum takes a step to move around the FIGURE, but he steps too,

blocking her.

Tatum moves again, sidestepping the FIGURE, but he's faster and

cuts her off.

Tatum juggles the beer against her chest with one hand and with

the other pushes the FIGURE hard, knocking him aside.

But as the FIGURE intercepts, lunging forward, grabbing her wrist

hard, Tatum stumbles...beer cans hit the floor, spewing...

Tatum yanks hard, releasing his hold when a flash of silver

catches her eye.  She looks down, glimpsing a long sharp blade as

it darts forward, cutting into her forearm...

Tatum pulls back, horrified, as the moment turns deadly serious.

The FIGURE advances on her--knife out, ready.  She staggers

backwards, holding her bloody arm, backing into the refrigerator,

SCREAMING.

The FIGURE lashes out with the knife.  Tatum dodges it, leaping

back against the fridge.  The FIGURE advances.  Instinctively, she

rips the top freezer door open, BASHING the FIGURE in the face,

sending him backwards, reeling.

Tatum bolts to the...CLOSED GARAGE DOOR.  In a panic, she BEATS

and PULLS

on it, trying to make it lift.  She eyes the FIGURE...he's

recovering...

She goes for the pet door, dropping to the floor, diving for

it...she wedges her upper body through, her head, shoulders, torso

just as the...

FIGURE pounces, grabbing hold of her feet.  Tatum goes crazy

SCREAMING and KICKING trying to get through.

EXT.  GARAGE DOOR

Tatum is half in/half out of the pet door.  She BEATS and JERKS

wildly, unable to see the FIGURE on the other side...

A true fighter, Tatum kicks hard, making direct contact with the

FIGURE, knocking him away.

She takes the moment to pull herself through further...but she

stops...stuck.  She pulls and tugs but can't move.  She listens

but hears nothing.  Where did he go?  An agonizing silence.  And

then...

CRR-BRRRM!  The garage door is activated.  It begins to rise

upward, taking

Tatum with it.  She SCREAMS MADLY.

Tatum's arms and legs fly about violently as she tries to free

herself from the door, but it moves too fast, carrying her up...

She looks above to see where the door rolls back into garage

rafters just as her neck hits the first beam, SNAPPING instantly.

INT.  FOYER - MINUTES LATER

It's getting late and SOME KIDS leave through the front door,

muttering, "parents and curfew", etc.  The door hangs open wide.

Sid moves to close it when....

BILLY appears in a classic fake scare.

Stu appears.

Sid grabs his hand and leads him up the staircase.  Randy appears

from the kitchen just in time to see Sid and Billy disappear

upstairs.

INT.  NEWSVAN

Kenny fidgets at the control board.  He hits a coupla buttons,

bangs the side of the monitor and a picture emerges...the living

room.  The camera is positioned just above the television...

ON SCREEN

The party is in full swing.  Several TEENS sit right in front of

the television.  Because of the camera's position they appear to

be staring right into the lens.

Suddenly, the van's side door slides open and Gale pops in.

Gale is ecstatic.

INT.  BEDROOM

A large, master bedroom with glass doors that lead out onto a

balcony.

Sid and Billy stare at each other for a long moment.  Awkward.

Billy bows his head quietly, knowingly.

Billy moves to her.  They embrace, tenderly.

Sidney takes the initiative, acting on impulse, kissing him long

and hard.  She breaks away passionately, out of breath.

Billy nibbles her neck.

She stares at him, her eyes sexually charged.

They smile at each other.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER

The camera sits on the book shelf lodged between two knickknacks,

completely inconspicuous. The CAMERA WIDENS to reveal several

TEENS watching the TV--the horror diehards.

Stu finishes his beer.

Randy hits the pause button on the remote and stands in front of

the television, explaining.

Everybody "ooohhs".

INT.  NEWSVAN - CONTINUOUS

Gale and Kenny watch the monitor.  The party is clearing out some

A RAP at the van door.  Gale pulls it open to see Deputy Riley

standing, his face all smiles.

Gale steps out of the van turning back to Kenny.

She slides the van door closed.

EXT.  ROAD - CONTINUOUS

Gale heads for Dewey's patrol jeep.

Gale appears skeptical, but smiles anyway.  She's genuinely

smitten by this young guy.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

SCARY MUSIC fills the room.  The party is reduced to the diehards

in front of the television.

INT.  BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Billy and Sidney are going at it...passionately.  He has his head

buried in her neck.

It's working.  Sidney pushes Billy off her as she pulls her shirt

over her head.  She fumbles with the clasp of her bra as the...

CAMERA RUSHES IN on her breasts.  Just as Sid's bra straps slide

of her shoulders...

Billy moves in front of the CAMERA, pulling his jeans off,

Blocking Sidney from view.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - SECONDS LATER

Back in the living room, the horror fest continues when the phone

RINGS.  Everyone ignores it.  It RINGS again.

Finally, Randy grabs the receiver from the side table.

Randy, freaked, drops the phone, finds the TV remote and pauses

the movie, the others protest

"Hey, Put is back..." etc.

This stills the room.  Complete silence as the news sinks in.  ON

different faces...a moment of devastation..disbelief.  And then:

And in seconds the room is empty as everyone bolts for the

door..HOOTIN' and HOLLERIN' ...leaving Randy, near drunk, alone in

the living room.  He returns to the movie.

INT.  NEWSVAN - MINUTES LATER

Kenny is barely watching the monitor, he reached boredom some time

ago.  He finds a bag of Cheetos and chows down when he hears

SCREAMING from outside.  He peers out the window to see the last

of the PARTY KIDS pile into two cars and race off down the road.

He chews a Cheeto slowly, his interest piqued.

INT.  BEDROOM - MINUTES LATER

The sex is over...and both Sid and Billy are dressing

respectively.  That post-sex awkwardness.

Sid brushes out her hair as her eyes come to rest on the telephone

on the nightstand...it puzzles her as a stark reveleation crosses

her face.  She turns to Billy who sits on the floor, putting on

his shoes.

Billy stands up.

He makes a move toward her when..from behind, in a split instant,

from the open balcony doors comes...

THE GHOST FIGURE

Sidney sees the FIGURE immedietely, SCREAMING.  Billy tries to

calm her, oblivious to the advancing GHOST.

Billy barely turns as a long steely blade rises high in the air.

It strikes down with force...hitting his chest as blood sprays the

air.

ON SIDNEY as red crimson splatters across her face...as the knife

is thrust in and out of Billy who tries hard to put up a

fight..but it's useless...he never had a chance.  His body falls

to the floor..lifeless.

ANGLE ON GHOST

as he watches Billy's body come to a still before quietly, calmly

turning his attention to...

SIDNEY who stands, numb...scared to death.  And only when the

GHOST takes a step forward does Sidney break.  She takes off like

a rocket...leaping over the bed and out the door.

INT.  HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Sidney tears out the door and down the hall, coated in Billy's

blood.

ANGLE ON THE GHOST

as he catches up with her, grabbing hold of her collar.  She pulls

away from him...her shirt ripping down the back.

Her hands find a door knob and she goes for it, pulling the door

open...moving quickly inside...locking it behind her.

INT.  DARK SPACE - CONTINUOUS

Total darkness.  Sidney's hands scour the wall for a light switch.

The doorknob turns...the lock holds..as the door is nearly SHAKEN

from it's hinges...and then...

NOTHING.  All goes silent.  Only Sidney's rapid BREATHING fills

the space around her.

Sidney, trembling, shaking, reaches above her, feeling, until she

finds a string.  She pulls it...as a lightbulb SWITCHES on

overhead.

She's in a small box of a room.  The door is on one side, a small,

narrow staircase on the other.  She eyes the doorknob, then the

staircase...contemplating...but it's an easy decision.  There's no

fucking way she's going up to the attic.

She unlocks the door and pushes on it.  But it won't give...she

pushes on it again.  It's locked from the other side.  Shit.  She

turns to the staircase.

EXT.  DARK ROAD - CONTINUOUS

A long, deserted country road.  In the distance, a single

flashlight beams ahead, the only light in the black night.  Gale

and Dewey can be heard.

CLOSE ON Gale and Dewey, walking closely, side by side-

flirtatiously.  Gale is surprisingly nervous.

Gale smiles.

Dewey blushes.  He starts to say something when headlights appear

behind them.  They both spin as TWO CARS loaded with KIDS come

racing right at them.

Dewey grabs Gale and pushes her off the road... just as the cars

speed by, oblivious to them.

IN THE DITCH

Gale lands face up with Dewey right on top of her.  He steals a

glance in her eyes before rolling off her.

Something takes Gale's attention.

Dewey looks to where gale points.  He finds the flashlight and

aims it into the bush.  The tail end of a car is just visible.

Dewey helps her up and they move to it.  He shines the flashlight

on the plates but it's already obvious to the CAMERA.  This is the

same car we last saw Sidney's father driving away in.

Dewey is panicked.  He grabs Gale and they race off down the road.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Randy continues to watch TV.  He is now sloppy drunk, completely

involved in the movie on the screen.

SCARY MUSIC SWELLS, filling the room.

And if he followed his own advice, he would see the GHOST MASKED

FIGURE that stands directly behind him...knife poised.

INT.  NEWSVAN - CONTINUOUS

Kenny finishes off a soda and crushes the can in his hand.  He

tosses it to the floor when a movement from the monitor catches

his eye.

ON THE MONITOR is Randy, still on the couch, engrossed in the

movie.  Directly behind him...the GHOST.  Kenny does a double-

take.  No fucking way.  He watches as the GHOST stands still,

unmoving, knife raised.

The GHOST takes a silent step forward.

This kid needs help.  Kenny bolts out of his seat and goes for the

side door.  He slides it open and sticks his head out as...

A LONG, SHARP BLADE

comes at Kenny, fast and furious...slicing into his throat.  Kenny

falls forward...out the door as the GHOST MASKED FIGURE is upon

him.

THE CAMERA PANS TO THE MONITOR

just in time to see the GHOST MASKED FIGURE turn away from Randy,

leaving him unharmed, moving instead, out the front door, on a

thirty second walk to the newsvan.

INT.  ATTIC - CONTINUOUS

The attic is long and narrow...cluttered with furniture, boxes,

and the likes...moonlight filters in through a small raised window

on the front wall of the house.

Sidney moves through the attic...BUMPING into this, KNOCKING over

that...she passes a dusty mirror, jumping at her own reflection.

She cringes at her image, drenched in Billy's blood.  She stares

long and hard...something about the blood, the redness of it.  She

moves on, determined.

She eyes the raised window above her...a way out...if she could

only reach it...

EXT.  FRONT YARD

Gale and Dewey come running up the drive, frantic.

They split up.  The CAMERA FOLLOWS GALE as she rushes to the

newsvan, throwing open the door.

The van is empty.

A CAR HORN goes off.  Gale spins around.  It came from the patrol

jeep in the driveway.

She moves across the yard to the jeep, the door hangs open...Dewey

is nowhere to be found.

A look of pure dread comes over Gale.

INT.  ATTIC - CONTINUOUS

Sidney has stacked object after object building a ladder to the

window.  She climbs to the top, holding onto the window frame.

She spots Gale almost immedietely.  She SCREAMS OUT, looking for

the window latch.  But there's not one.  It doesn't open.  Sidney

starts beating on it...trying to break it...

EXT.  FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

Gale, hanging tough, approaches the front door, unable to hear

Sidney's SCREAMS three floors up.  Gale reaches for the door just

as she hears LOUD, HORRIBLE SHRIEKS from just inside.  She backs

away.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

AN EAR-CURDLING JAMIE LEE CURTIS SCREAM BLASTS through the empty

living room as the horror movie on TV comes to it's horrifying

climax.

Randy is now gone.

EXT.  FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS

Gale races across the yard putting distance between her and the

house.  She moves back to the van...

INT.  ATTIC - CONTINUOUS

Sidney has found an old tennis racket.  She swings a solid

forehand at the window.

THE WINDOW SPRAYS GLASS

Sidney moves quickly, lifting herself up over broken glass and

pulling herself through the window frame.

EXT.  SIDE OF THE HOUSE

Sidney wastes no time.  She looks for Gale, SCREAMING, but Gale is

gone.

Sid lowers herself down the ledge, sliding down a sloped portion

of the roof onto...

THE MASTER'S BEDROOM BALCONY.

Then she eases herself over the railing and lowers herself,

letting herself hang as low as she can...then she lets go, free-

falling the rest of the way...but in a split instant...

THE GHOST APPEARS

grabbing her wrists in midair.

Her body hangs, dangling against the side of the house.  The GHOST

begins to lift her, pulling her back onto the balcony.

Sidney jerks, pulls, twists...but the HANDS have her, hoisting her

up...Sidney SCREAMS MADLY...yanking one last time, freeing

herself.

SHE DROPS TO THE GROUND, a good seven feet, landing on her back,

hitting hard.  She grabs at a pained leg and brings herself

upright.

INT.  NEWSVAN - CONTINUOUS

Gale is frantic.  She starts the engine up and hits the headlights

when she discovers she can't see out of the windshield.

Gale rubs at the glass.  Sure enough, something is on the

windshield outside, blocking her sight.  Gale hits the wipers as

BLOOD SMEARS across the glass, it drips down from above.

Gale SCREAMS as a HAND reaches in through the open window...she

looks up to see...

RANDY, staring at her madly.

A sheer moment of fear as Gale hits the gas plummeting the car

forward, into a ditch.  She hits the BRAKES.  Randy is thrown

forward, away from the van.

Gale reverses, backs up, hits the brakes again...just as Kenny's

face comes sliding down the outside of the windshield...eyes wide,

face distorted, blood everywhere.

Gale hits the gas, and yanks the wheel, sending Kenny's corpse

flying off the top of the van.

Gale spins the van around, onto the road, hits the gas madly,

gaining speed just as...

SIDNEY APPEARS

in the middle of the road, drenched in blood, very much resembling

a young Sissy Spacek.

Gale swerves to miss her, but she turns too sharp and the van

veers off the road at top speed...flipping over on its side,

sliding off into the thick foliage.

EXT.  ROAD - CONTINUOUS

Sidney races to where the van lay on it's side.  Sidney peers

through the windshield...Gale's body lay limp and bloody.

SIDNEY CRIES OUT, turning, limping to the driveway.  She sees the

patrol jeep with it's open door...she goes for it.

INT.  JEEP

Sidney hops in, reaches for the ignition...NO KEYS!  Shit.  Just

then, Sidney's eyes go to the front porch.  She watches as the

front door opens and a FIGURE appears in the darkness,

undetectable.

Sidney throws the headlights...illuminating the front side of the

house, revealing...

DEWEY STANDING IN THE DOORWAY.

Sidney opens the jeep door, moving to him, noticing his body,

slumped, knees buckled...

And then his body falls forward, slowly, deliberately, hitting the

porch hard.  Standing behind him is...

THE GHOST

SIDNEY SCREAMS FROM THE BOTTOM OF HER SOUL.

Sid jumps back inside the jeep, closing the door, locking it.  She

reaches over and locks the passenger's door and then she...waits.

And watches as the GHOST leans over Dewey's still body, fumbling

with something.  Then the FIGURE stands upright, in his hands he

holds...

THE KEYS

They jingle in the wind, the GHOST toying with her, enjoying

this...

Sidney, hysterical, locks eyes with the FIGURE as he moves to the

door, Sidney leaps on it, holding the lock button down, making it

impossible to unlock.  Her face is pressed against the

glass...inches from the MASKED FIGURE.

She uses every ounce of strength when suddenly, the GHOST

DISAPPEARS, dropping down, below the window, out of her view.

Sidney moves to the center of the jeep, trying hard to listen over

her own RAPID BREATHING, every sound AMPLIFIED.

Then she hears it, the soft JINGLING of keys near the passengers

side door.  She pounces on the lock, holding it down.

A shadow cuts the beam of the headlights, unseen by Sidney.  The

lock turns on the other side.  Sidney leaps over and holds it

down, securing it.  This is beyond nerve-racking.  Sidney is

certifiable.

Her eyes spot the police radio for the first time.  She grabs the

mouthpiece and hits the switch.

EXT.  FRONT OF JEEP

ANGLE through front windshield.  Sidney RANTING into the police

band.  She doesn't see the...

GHOST FIGURE open the tailgate door of the jeep and slowly crawl

in behind her.

The GHOST FIGURE reaches out and grabs hold of Sidney's neck.

Sidney, with surprising strength, spins around and attacks the

GHOST.

She falls back against the dash, legs out, kicking wildly at him.

Her hand reaches for the door, finds the lock, the door lever, she

pulls...

The door swings open...

Sidney falls out of the door, hitting the ground.

EXT.  FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS

Sidney, on her stomach, squirms away from the jeep.  She brings

herself up to her hands and knees, looking behind her to see

nothing...

THE GHOST HAS DISAPPEARED.

Sidney's eyes roam the yard but he's nowhere.  Completely gone.

Vanished.  Sid crawls to the front porch where...

DEWEY'S BODY LAY

Thinking quickly, precisely, she reaches to Dewey's holster and

grabs his gun when a VOICE ECHO'S behind her...

She turns to see Randy racing to her, limping.  He appears stone

cold sober.

Sidney throws the gun forward.

He takes a step forward when another VOICE SPEAKS UP.

Sidney spins around to see Stu moving up the walk.

Stu moves closer to Sidney.

She aims the gun in his direction.

Sidney has lost it, she doesn't know who to trust.  She aims the

gun at Stu..then Randy..then Stu...

They both move toward her.  There's no time.  She must act now.

Finally...

And with that, Sidney steps back into the house and SLAMS the

front door shut.

INT.  LIVING ROOM / FOYER

Sid locks and bolts the door.  From the other side she can hear

Randy SCREAMING.

His fists POUND against the door.  Sidney, stumbling in the

darkness, rushes to the phone in the living room.  Just as she

reaches for it...it RINGS.  It scares the life out of her.  She

SCREAMS, yanking it up.

Sidney falls apart, SCREAMING.

She throws the phone down, disconnecting the call.

Sid moves back to the door.  RANDY'S SCREAMS ARE MADDENING.  She

eyes the lock, deliberating.

CLUNK!  A NOISE UPSTAIRS.

Sidney looks up the staircase, into the darkness, her face SHOCKED

to see...

BILLY

emerging from the shadows, stumbling down the stairs.  Very much

alive.

He's blood-soaked and dazed.  Sidney meets him in the landing,

grabbing him, holding him...

Billy goes for the door.

Randy continues POUNDING ON THE DOOR, SCREAMING AT THE TOP OF HIS

LUNGS.

Billy goes for the door.  Sidney blocks him.

Sidney hands him the gun.  Billy turns and unlocks the door,

opening it.  Randy rushes in, grabbing Billy, pleading...

Slowly, a small smile creeps across Billy's face.

Randy squints, confused, as Billy aims the gun at Randy and pulls

the trigger.  The BLAST throws Randy's body against the wall

before sliding to a heap on the floor...still.

BILLY TURNS TO SIDNEY...

Who stands only feet away, face aghast...

Fuck, no...this can't be happening.  Billy's eyes are on her,

unmoving.

He sticks his tongue out and slowly licks the blood dried to his

face...tasting it.

Sidney is dumbfounded.  Slowly, she takes a step back, moving into

the dark refines of the kitchen.

Billy, lurches forward in a fake-out, baiting her.  She takes

another step back--petrified.

CLOSE ON BILLY'S FACE.  It is no longer familiar to Sidney.  There

is something inhuman now about his features.  His expression is

pure evil.

She takes another step back, shrinking into the dark kitchen.

THE CAMERA TAKES A MOMENT TO ADJUST TO THE DARKNESS as the outline

of a FIGURE appears...

STANDING RIGHT BEHIND SIDNEY.

She continues to back up, moving right into the arms of...

STU

Sidney spins around...her mouth open in speechless horror.

Stu stares back at her, eyes wide, lips curled in a subtle smile

as he holds a small compact CELLULAR PHONE up to his face.

His VOICE sounds affected now...the VOICE of the killer.

Sidney looks back to Billy, then to Stu, then to Billy again.  It

becomes all too clear.

She stands between them, her mind racing, calculating...

SHE BOLTS INTO THE LIVING ROOM

If for no other reason than to put space between her and

them...they stand in the entryway, trapping her in.

Stu disappears into the kitchen.

Sidney stands, trying hard to hold a calm resolve.

A NOISE comes from the kitchen.  A low dragging sound.  Stu

reappears from the front hall...wrestling with

something...someone...

CLOSE ON STU...he has a body in tow, he thrusts it forward and it

rolls into the living room.  Sidney looks down to find...

HER FATHER

bound and gagged.  His eyes wide in fear, very much alive.

She starts for him.

Stu places the cellular phone in Mr. Prescott's shirt pocket.

Billy and Stu relish their madness, proud of themselves.

Sidney looks to her dad, sees the tears in his eyes.  She looks

back to Billy, unflinching..a determined look on her face.

Stu plays along, shaking his head.

Stu cracks up over this while Billy turns very serious.

A sudden silence.  Sidney is rigid with shock, his words resonant

with truth.

Even Stu is surprised with his seriousness.

Billy sits the gun down on the table near the foyer.  And then

moves to Sidney with the butcher knife in hand.

Sidney doesn't respond.

Billy turns to Stu with the knife.  They eye each other.

Billy pulls the knife back and brings it forward quickly, slicing

into Stu.  He stumbles to ho his knees, WINCING in pain.

Sidney SCREAMS...as blood gushes..real blood, a dark, deep red.

Stu inspects the wound to his side...then he smiles...

He takes the knife from Billy.

Stu stabs at Billy's belly, puncturing him...Billy doubles over...

Billy takes the knife and slashes at Stu's arm, two quick

cuts...he doubles over...

Stu takes the knife and cuts at Billy.

Billy looks at her, bent over, crazed.

Stu staggers a bit.

Billy moves to Sidney's father.

Stu is searching the foyer for the gun.

Billy hobbles over.  The gun is gone.

Billy and Stu look up in unison to see...

GALE WEATHERS-CORRESPONDENT FROM INSIDE STORY

standing in the front door way, gun in hand.  Her body tattered

and bloody.  Her hair a mess.

Gale holds the gun firm, in total control.

Sidney steps forward.

Billy lunges at Gale, but she holds steady.  Billy and Stu eye

each other.

In a mad rush, they storm Gale, heading straight at her.  She

pulls the trigger, but nothing happens...the safety is on.

Billy charges forward, grabbing hold of the front door, SLAMMING

IT SHUT.  It catches Gale in the face, knocking her backwards out

the door.  She goes down...out.

Billy steps out the front door and retrieves the gun from where

Gale lays.  Then he turns back inside the house to find...

SIDNEY GONE.

Stu looks around, staggering now, bleeding heavily...Sidney has

completely disappeared.  Only her father, bound and gagged remains

in the living.

Suddenly, the phone RINGS.  Billy and Stu look at each other.

Completely surprised.  Billy scrambles over to the phone.

Billy looks to Mr. Prescott.  The cellular phone is gone.

Billy looks around the living room.

Billy is fuming now...slightly staggering...and starting to lose

it.  He SCREAMS at Stu who has fallen to his knees.

Billy throws the phone at Stu.  He mouths to him, so Sid can't

hear.  "Talk to her..."  Then Billy takes off for the kitchen.

Stu takes the phone.

Billy flies back in the room, grabbing the phone from Stu.  He's

completely nuts now, staggering, bleeding, totally insane.

Billy starts ripping the room up, overturning furniture in a mad

fit of rage...when he notices the hall closet.  Touche!  He smiles

deliriously, heading for it, ripping it open as...

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE strikes from within, with an umbrella, the

sharp end hitting him in the chest as it fans out.  Billy stumbles

back, stunned, as the GHOST comes at him again...the umbrella

lodges in his chest, and he goes down.

Sidney rips the GHOST MASK off her head.  She looks at Billy,

disgusted, throwing the mask on Billy's now still body.  A

movement behind her sends her reeling around to find...

RANDY slowly sitting up.  His body drenched in blood.  He's

alive...barely.  He looks to Sidney...through pain...

Randy manages to stand when a FIGURE COMES LEAPING at him,

completely unexpected...it's Stu...barreling into him...they fall

back into the living room.  Sidney grabs the gun next to Billy and

turns to the living room to find...

Randy and Stu rolling across the floor in a dead lock, fighting,

both seriously injured...Sid tries to find aim when a...

HAND GRABS HOLD of Sidney's ankle, toppling her to the

floor...once again she finds Billy on top of her...

IN THE LIVING ROOM

Randy and Stu pound at each other, beating and clawing...

ON SIDNEY as she fights viciously, attacking with everything she's

got...

Randy is desperately trying to pry away from Stu...he grabs hold

of the television set and tries to pull himself off the floor out

of Stu's clutch...

His hands find the top of the TV...the VCR...he yanks on it,

gripping it with his hands, bringing it around with force-CRASHING

the VCR into Stu's head.  Stu drops.

ON SIDNEY as she digs her hand into Billy's open chest wound.  He

CRIES OUT BLOODY MURDER.  Her other hand brings the gun up to his

face...but he head bunts it out the front door...suddenly a flash

of silver appears above Sidney.

Billy has grasped the butcher knife...he rises it high above

Sidney ready to strike...when a bullet RIPS THROUGH THE FOYER

striking Billy knocking him back into the living room.

Sidney looks up to see...

GALE WEATHERS, holding the gun in a death grip as smoke rises

above the gun's chamber.

Sidney sits up as Gale moves to her, helping her.  Their eyes

meet.  A life truce.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Billy and Stu lay face up, head to head.  Sid and Gale move over

them, staring down.  Randy joins them.

Sidney nudges their bodies.  They both stir.

Sidney grabs the gun from Gale.

She positions her foot on Stu's chest and aims.

She SHOOTS him in the forehead, a clean and perfect shot.  The she

aims the barrel at Billy who's eyes suddenly open, blinking up at

her, blood bubbling from his lips.  He's not yet dead.  Their eyes

lock.

She FIRES another perfect shot.  They're both goners.

Sidney drops the smoking gun, standing silent over the bodies.  A

quiet moment when suddenly...

A FIGURE LUNGES AT THEM

Both Sid and Gale and Randy SCREAM in epic, final scare

proportions as Mr. Prescott leaps forward, still bound and gagged.

Sid catches her breath, relaxing.

She rushes to him, untying him...while Gale moves to the bookcase

and retrieves the hidden camera.

Randy appears by Sidney's side, helping her untie her father.

Sidney looks at him, dumbfounded.

A long moment as Sidney's face goes from disbelief to resignation

to the slight trace of a smile.

He smiles at her...watching as Sidney grabs hold of her father,

holding him tight as Gale Weathers, with camera in hand, gets one

hell of an ending to this SCARY MOVIE.

