Scream 2

Screenplay by         Kevin Williamson

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT

An old preserved movie theatre. The kind only found in

a small town. Very picturesque. The marquee in front

reads:

"SNEAK PREVIEW TONIGHT

'STAB'

Rated R"

A line has formed around the block, GUYS and GIRLS -

mostly college age.

CLOSE on a girl, MAUREEN, no more than 18. A friendly

face with innocent eyes. She stands in line with her

boyfriend PHIL, same age. A handsome counterpart.

He pulls her close, snuggling with her.

EXT. BOX OFFICE

Maureen and Phil reach the box office, presenting their

tickets.

They pass through the front doors where an USHER stands

randomly handing out GHOST MASKS. A Hollywood variation

of a most familiar one. Phil takes one.

INT. THEATRE - A MINUTE LATER

The small theatre is nearly packed to capacity. Maureen

and Phil enter, moving down the aisle searching for two

seats. A YOUNG GIRL SCREAMS, whizzing by them as a

GHOST MASKED GUY chases after her. The crowd LAUGHS.

Everyone is having fun.

Maureen and Phil find aisle seats down towards the

screen just as the lights DIM. People FAKE SCREAM in

terror. A very lively crowd.

ON SCREEN

Credits roll as the movie begins. The studio logo

appears followed by...

"A ROBERT RODRIGUEZ FILM"

IN THE THEATRE

Maureen turns to find a GHOST MASK in her face. Phil

has slipped it on.

Phil gets in her face, playing with her. She swats him.

He obliges.

ON SCREEN

More credits.

"BASED ON THE BOOK "THE WOODSBORO MURDERS" BY GALE

WEATHERS"

Maureen looks behind her, toward the rest of the

audience. A sea of white ghost faces fill the theatre.

The publicity masks actually glow in the dark. A

chilling sight that leaves Maureen extremely spooked.

ON SCREEN

The movie begins. A house in the middle of nowhere.

Lights burn from within.

Inside the house, a YOUNG GIRL, Alicia Silverstonish is

taking a shower. The water cascades over her nubile

body. Suddenly, a FIGURE is glimpsed through the

curtain. It's all very PSYCHO.

ON SCREEN

The phone RINGS. The young girl pulls the shower

curtain aside to reveal a robe hung on a hook. She

grabs it, running from the bathroom, into the living

room, grabbing the phone.

A menacing VOICE responds.

IN THE THEATRE

Maureen is not having a good time. She's already

spooked.

IN THE THEATRE

Maureen shifts in her seat.

He nods. Maureen stands and moves up the aisle.

INT. LOBBY - SECONDS LATER

Maureen emerges from the theatre and into the small

lobby. It is dark and shadowed. She moves down a long

hallway to a staircase. A "BATHROOM" sign with an arrow

points downstairs.

Maureen hits the stairs to...

INT. BASEMENT LOUNGE - SAME

A small lounge leads to two bathroom doors. Very low

lighting. Maureen descends the stairs, heading for

the...

INT. GIRL'S RESTROOM - SAME

A large bathroom. Five stalls line one wall. The door

CREAKS open. Maureen enters and shoots for a stall.

INSIDE THE STALL - MOMENTS LATER

Maureen finishes up, fastening her pants. Suddenly, the

bathroom door CREAKS open. Maureen listens. FOOTSTEPS

are heard. Loud and heavy.

Maureen eyes the crack in the stall door. Not much is

visible. Suddenly, a SHADOW sweeps by. The footsteps

stop.

Maureen finishes up quickly. She flushes, throws the

stall door open and rushes out to find...

THE BATHROOM EMPTY.

The stall doors are all closed. Maureen shoots for the

door. She rips the door open as a FIGURE rushes her...

A YOUNG GIRL followed by her FRIEND, both perky and

loud. They hurl past Maureen, LAUGHING and carrying on.

Maureen is out the door. Now thoroughly spooked.

INT. BASEMENT LOBBY - SAME

Alone, Maureen moves for the stairs when a FIGURE

emerges from the shadows. A GHOST MASKED SHAPE

appearing behind her...

LUNGING FOR HER, grabbing her, spinning her around. She

SCREAMS MADLY as the Ghost starts LAUGHING. The mask

comes off. It's Phil.

Phil takes her in his arms.

He's sincere. He leans down and plants a kiss on her.

She caves, kissing him back. Sweet and sensual.

Maureen moves up the stairs out of sight. Phil turns,

reaching for the bathroom door just as a...

GHOST MASKED FIGURE appears in his path. Phil steps

back, surprised. Suddenly, a flash of silver shoots

forth as Phil is pierced with a long sharp knife. Quick

and silent. He bellies over just as the Ghost Shape

strikes again. Phil goes down without a scream.

INT. LOBBY - SECONDS LATER

Maureen is at the concession. A GIRL at the counter

hands her change and Maureen is off with soda and a tub

of popcorn.

INT. DARK THEATER - SECONDS LATER

SCREAMS and GASPS from the audience as the movie plays

on.

ON SCREEN

A patio chair comes flying through a glass door. The

young girl in the movie tears off running, SCREAMING,

flying through the room.

IN THE THEATER

The crowd is really with the movie. Some even talk to

the screen. "You dumb bitch. Get out of the house."

etc.

Maureen makes her way back to her aisle seat. She sits

down next to...

PHIL

Who sits with the mask on. The reflection from the

movie bouncing against it in the darkness.

She sits down, with the popcorn.

ON SCREEN

The young girl slips out a side door, completely

terrified. In her hand, she holds a portable phone.

IN THE THEATER

Maureen offers Phil popcorn.

Phil turns to her, bringing his finger to his masked

lips, SSSHHING her.

ON SCREEN

The young girl runs by a window. She looks in. A GHOST

MASKED KILLER stares back. The Figure CRASHES through

the window attacking her. She fights him off, getting

away, running...

IN THE THEATER

Everyone in the theater is SCREAMING. Maureen tries her

best to detach herself from the movie. She eats her

popcorn.

She turns her attention to Phil.

Phil ignores her. She reaches over in the darkness

putting her hand on his knee. She inches it up. The

Ghost-masked Phil just stares ahead.

ON SCREEN

The young girl is running through the yard. The Ghost

Killer is right behind her, chasing her... she

SCREAMS...

IN THE THEATER

Maureen pretends to watch the movie while her hand

continues to move between Phil's legs. She stares

ahead, WINCING at what's about to happen to the girl on

screen.

She doesn't notice as Phil pulls a long sharp hunting

knife from inside his coat jacket. Maureen's hand moves

up Phil's jacket... something stops her. She feels

something on her fingers... something wet. She pulls

her hand back, the reflected movie illuminating bloody

fingers.

Maureen stares at her hand...

ON SCREEN

The Ghost advances on the young girl, grabbing her,

pulling her to him, raising high a long, hunting knife.

The young girl is helpless...

IN THE THEATER

Maureen looks at Phil, confused... as if seeing for the

first time... IT'S NOT PHIL. She pulls away when, the

Ghost-masked Figure grabs her with one hand, the other

one clutching the hunting knife.

Maureen sees it, her mouth billowing forth a LOUD

SCREAM that is matched by the entire audience as they

SCREAM at the screen.

ON SCREAM

The young girl is stabbed in the heart.

IN THE THEATER

Maureen is helpless. The knife comes fast and furious,

striking her in the stomach. She falls forward, into

the aisle as...

ON SCREEN

The young girl, clutching her bloody chest... drags

herself, crawling across wet grass... the killer behind

her... raising his knife again.

IN THE THEATER

Popcorn flies as Maureen falls forward, into the aisle,

clutching her bloody stomach. She's speechless, unable

to SCREAM. She holds her bloody hand out for all to

see, begging for help. She stumbles down the aisle.

Someone YELLS "Sit down." Maureen turns to several

PEOPLE who begin to react. She turns behind her to see

the Ghost Face coming at her again... knife raised.

ON SCREEN

The young girl is slashed again.

IN THE THEATER

The knife slices into Maureen again... then again. The

theatre audience is starting to take note as the Ghost

keeps slashing at her repeatedly with the knife. A

horrifying, sickening sight.

Maureen stumbles forward, her bloody body moving down

to the front of the theater. Suddenly, the entire

audience begins...

APPLAUD AND CHEER

Maureen, swaying from side to side, turns to the crowd

and emits a HORRENDOUS BLOOD CURDLING SCREAM as...

ON SCREEN

The young girl lets out an enormous EAR SCREECHING

SCREAM that mirrors Maureen's as the killer attacks one

last time, stabbing her, silencing her forever.

IN THE THEATER

The Ghost slashes out one last time, direct and fierce.

Maureen falls back against the movie screen... very

much dead. Her arms flail across the screen... smearing

blood over the wide screen image of the GHOST MASK.

TITLE CARD

"SCREAM 2"

INT. DORM ROOM - MORNING

A typical college dorm room. Industrial strength

furniture. There's two of everything.

A RINGING phone stirs a YOUNG GIRL in bed, asleep under

a mound of blankets and pillows. The girl starts to

rise as the phone is answered. A VOICE is heard. Brass

and sassy.

The girl rolls out of bed, her hair falls away to

reveal her face - It's SIDNEY PRESCOTT. Two years older

has brought a maturity to this beautiful young woman.

Her face posses a survivor's edge. Stronger and more

determined, she appears to have weathered the storm.

She stands and moves to...

HALLIE

Her roommate and friend. An attractive young black

woman. Twenty at most. Brazen. Fun. Full of life. She

hands the phone to Sidney.

A VOICE spits out of the phone. Deep and haunting.

Sidney doesn't flinch.

Sidney grabs a small device hooked to the phone. She

takes a look at its display.

Silence.

CLICK! The phone goes dead.

She hangs the phone up, turning to Hallie.

Sidney grabs her robe and shower bucket as Hallie

channel surfs. Various morning news programs are on

their small TV. Snippets are heard.

The channel switches. A YOUNG MAN is being interviewed.

Attractive, sullen. Sad.

His voice stops Sidney cold. She turns to the

television.

Hallie hits the remote. The man's image disappears as

the TV goes off. Hallie turns, all smiles.

Sidney turns from the television. Momentarily lost.

Recovery is immediate.

Sid moves to the door and throws it open. A GHOST

FIGURE LEAPS at her. She SCREAMS but then stops

herself.

It's just a costume hung from her doorframe. Preset, to

scare. Another prank. Sidney rips it down, turns to

Hallie, throwing the costume at her.

Sid is surprisingly cool. She exits out the door,

leaving Hallie staring at the Ghost Mask in her hands.

EXT. DORMITORY - MORNING - LITTLE LATER

Sid steps outside of her dorm. The morning sun shines

down as Sid breathes in, taking in the day just as

FIFTY NEWS REPORTERS NOB HER.

Microphones are shoved in her face as Sidney is seiged

upon by journalists and TV cameras. She starts to

panic.

Sidney is mortified. She pushes and shoves but there is

no escape. The questions come at her like lightning.

She sees a whole in the crowd and goes for it as a

REPORTER, a flashy woman - all hair and teeth, thick

sunglasses, moves in her way.

Sidney's eyes flare. Her fist starts to clench when...

BAM! Someone beats her to it. A fist flies out from the

crowd, connecting with the flashy woman's face. She

drops. Sid spins around to find...

GALE WEATHERS

Standing, tight-fisted. Their eyes meet. A quick

moment. Sidney is happy to see her.

The onslaught continues. Cameras flash, reporters

shove. Gale moves in front of Sid, holding the crowd at

bay. The reporters begin to throw questions at Gale.

Sid wastes no time. She takes off, running around the

side of the building. She stops, takes a breath, but

the reporters are on her tail. She looks up to see a...

SMALL CAMPUS SECURITY VEHICLE

Appear, moving towards her. It slows down.

Sid goes for it as two hands reach out to help her. One

smooth move and Sidney is in the arms of...

DEWEY RILEY

She looks at him. Her face a book of questions.

He smiles at her. A safe, warm smile. His face as cute

as ever.

EXT. SECURITY CART - MINUTES LATER

The security cart trots along, passing STUDENTS coming

and going. Dressed smartly in a campus security outfit,

Dewey maneuvers the cart across the campus grounds.

Sidney rides beside him, horrified as she listens to

him.

The cart comes to a stop in front of a building.

Dewey steps down off the security cart and helps Sid

off.

Sid's tough demeanor is cracking. She takes a deep

breath.

He starts off, for the first time, a severe limp is

visible as his left leg drags behind him.

Sidney reaches up and gives her pseudo-brother a kiss,

then takes off for the building. Dewey watches until

she disappears inside, then limps back to his security

cart.

EXT. STUDENT UNION PARKING LOT - MINUTES LATER

A newsvan pulls up and parks next to a trough of other

newsvans and REPORTERS. Some are doing live remotes,

others ready themselves for the next onslaught.

Gale gets out of the newsvan, her cellular affixed to

her ear.

Gale's CAMERAMAN can be seen behind her, in the van

fussing with equipment.

Gale turns to her cameraman, snapping her fingers.

The guy looks up at her. It's RANDY. Two years older

but still the charming jokester.

She hangs up, turning to Randy.

Randy holds up his camera - stoked.

INT. SCHOOL OF FILM - LATER

Sidney moves down a hallway. Not your typical school

building. Through open doorways, film equipment is

glimpsed. Editing bays and the like. She's in the Film

Department.

She comes upon an open door and peers in. A large room,

a class is in progress. She slips in quietly.

INT. CLASSROOM - SAME

Sidney takes a seat at the back of the room. A handful

of FILM STUDENTS sit around on torn couches heavy in

discussion. Sid goes unnoticed as she watches a

whirlwind debate. A SNOTTY GUY is pontificating a

point.

Hallie sits on a couch next to MICKEY, 20's, atheletic,

cool and rowdy. Arms enwrapped.

The conversation overlaps, everyone arguing... making

their point about ALIENS VS. ALIEN.

Someone screams out, "You Sarah Connor?" as the

TEACHER, a young artsy type, speaks up.

Ooooohhh. The whole room goes worship silent. All in

agreement.

A YOUNG MAN, handsome and smooth, jumps into the

conversation. His name is Derek.

From the back of the room, Sidney watches him. Fixated.

Everyone BOO'S. "Ewoks blow."

The class stews on this. Derek turns, spotting Sidney

in the back of the room. She gives a half wave. He

starts for her, excusing himself.

INT. CORRIDOR - SAME

Derek and Sidney move out into the hallway. Derek

throws his arms around her protectively.

He looks at her with bedroom eyes.

He moves on her, wrapping her in his arms and kissing

her passionately. She breaks away, laughing.

But it's a failed objection. He kisses her again and

they're soon devouring each other like two people in

love. Right in the middle of the hallway.

EXT. STUDENT UNION - LATE AFTERNOON

The place is a circus. The front steps of the student

center have been roped off to form a platform. A podium

and mike have been placed center.

CROWDS have gathered for the press conference that is

being held by the university. Reporters and cameras

have been roped off to the side. On stage, DEAN FISHER,

a sharp looking woman in her forties is talking to

spectators.

Beside her stand uniformed COPS, the local SHERIFF, FBI

AGENTS. She continues on...

IN THE ROPED OFF NEWS SECTION

Gale walks through the crowd, listening to the Dean.

Gale spins around to find DEBBIE SALT, the flashy

reporter who she decked earlier, standing in front of

her.

The woman has immediately put Gale on the defensive.

TWO OTHER REPORTERS have taken notice. Suddenly,

CAMERAS are on Gale.

And in seconds the vultures are upon her as Gale

Weathers is beseiged by REPORTERS. The questions spew

forth. "Why are you here?" "Is this the work of a

copycat killer?" "Have you talked to Sidney?" etc.

And with that Gale wanders off into the crowd.

ON STAGE

The LOCAL SHERIFF, a smart looking guy in his 50's is

fielding questions.

ON THE LAWN

Students and concerned faculty stand. Among them are

Sidney, Derek, Hallie and Mickey. Next to them stand

JOEL, 20's, black, sensible and friendly. A very

intelligent face.

From across the way, two gorgeous sorority type girls,

LOIS and MURPHY stand with their FRATERNITY JOCK

BOYFRIENDS. All looks and attitude. Their eyes are on

Sidney as they huddle in a conspiratory stance.

Hallie kicks him. Joel moves to Sid.

Joel smiles, heading out as the two sorority girls,

Lois and Murphy saunter over.

Instantly, Hallie stands at attention. Sidney joins

begrudgingly.

The pledges shake their heads. Suspicious. Lois

withdraws two rolls of toilet paper from her book bag

and passes them out.

Sidney takes her toilet paper.

She throws him a comforting glance. She's okay with

this. She heads off with Hallie. Derek watches.

DEWEY

Their eyes meet. A long moment. The silence between

them is revealing.

He tips his hat curtly, then starts off. She stops him.

He turns on her. His eyes on fire.

This stings Gale.

Gale is at a loss.

Dewey turns and limps away, leaving Gale staring after

him. Her face smashed fiat.

ON STAGE

The sheriff continues fielding questions from

reporters.

ACROSS THE WAY

Sidney and Hallie have split up. They move through the

crowd selling toilet paper. Several STUDENTS make their

purchase.

Sidney pockets her change, looks up to see Gale,

standing alone. She goes to her.

Beat. People have begun to notice the two of them

talking. Reporters and spectators have slowly circled

them. Gale looks around. She spots Randy, who appears

behind Sid, with his camera. Gale gives him the nod. He

throws the camera up, hits the light.

Sid spins around, surprised to see him.

But then she sees someone else, standing off to the

side. A man she recognizes immediately. He looks at;

her, his face sullen, broken. Sidney loses her breath.

He moves to her.

Gale motions to Randy. He maneuvers, getting the two of

them in frame. A long moment, Sidney just stares at

him. Completely off guard. She looks to Randy who aims

the camera directly at her... filming her.

She turns back to Gale, staring holes through her,

realizing she's been set up. She looks back to Cotton.

She doesn't know what to say. She turns back to Gale.

Eyes aflame.

Sidney storms off, disappearing in the crowd. Cotton

turns to Gale. His face pained.

He takes off, pushing through the crowd. Randy stops

filming.

Randy is clearly not happy about his part in this. It's

in his voice.

Randy's face reveals otherwise.

EXT. SORORITY ROW - NIGHT

A small street that dead-ends in a cul de sac. Large

old homes populate it. Greek signs adorn the place.

Welcome to Sorority Row.

INT. SORORITY HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A huge living room. Divided sensibly in several

sections. Nicely done. Et is empty except for one girl

who lies on the couch watching television. This is

CICI, pretty with a lively energy about her. She

channel surfs while talking on the phone.

BEEP! BEEP! Call waiting bleeps through.

A MAN'S VOICE. Deep and alluring.

She clicks back over.

She clicks back over.

Realizing, it's not Ted.

Silence. No response.

Silence again. And then...

Almost a whisper. Simple. Direct. His voice pierces

Cici. Her eyes widen. BEEP! Call waiting CLICKS

through.

Cici gets up and moves to...

INT. FOYER - SAME

Cici checks the front door, making sure it's locked.

BUMP! A noise from upstairs. Cici spins around to the

staircase.

BUMP! Something moves upstairs. It sounds almost like

footsteps.

Cici looks up the staircase again.

Floorboards CREAK above her. Cici freaks.

She flies to the door, unlocking it, throwing it open.

She moves out onto the...

EXT. FRONT PORCH - SAME

A wooden porch with a bulb glowing overhead. She stands

on the porch steps, looking back, through the open

door, into the house. The phone starts to CRACKLE.

Cici looks up and down the street. A YOUNG GUY walks

along the sidewalk.

The guy wears a headset, his head bobbing to the beat.

He doesn't see her. Cici looks up the street to a

sorority house down the block. Lights burn from within.

People come and go.

Cici moves further down the porch steps. The phone

begins to CRACK severely.

Cici hangs up the phone. She hits the "TALK" button.

Nothing but static. She tries again. She can't get a

dial tone. She looks back to the front door. She

hesitates quickly, debating, then she moves back up the

porch steps.

She tries the phone again. It still won't connect. She

moves back to the front porch. It connects. Major

static. She dials 511.

Cici eyes the open front door. She inches back to it.

The phone goes dead.

Cici redials. The same static.

Cici peers through the front door, into the house. It's

completely empty. Cici steps back inside the house. The

connection becomes much clearer.

There's no one on the line.

SUDDENLY, A FIGURE APPEARS BEHIND HER. A HAND GRABS

HER.

Cici spins around, SCREAMING BLOODY MURDER.

Standing before her is DAWNIE, a young girl, sweet, pre-

occupied.

The front door remains wide open. The phone RINGS. Cici

stares at it in her hand. She doesn't answer it.

Cici nods, answering the phone. ROCK MUSIC BLARES from

the receiver.

Dawnie grabs the phone, moving into the living room.

She moves to a mirror and fusses with her hair.

Dawnie hangs up the phone, turning to Cici.

Reflected through the mirror is the foyer. Neither see

as a SHROUDED FIGURE appears through the front door.

Dawnie turns back to the mirror just as the Figure

sweeps into the dark dining room and out of sight.

Dawnie starts back for the front door. The phone RINGS.

Dawnie grabs it.

Dawnie throws her the phone and races out the door.

She SLAMS the door shut behind her. A second later we

hear it lock. Dawnie brings the phone up to her ear.

Cici nearly collapses. She's starting to lose it.

Cici hangs up, throwing the phone across the room. She

moves back to the foyer where an alarm panel is

positioned in the wail. She hits a coupla digits and a

BEEP is heard as she activates the alarm.

She checks the door, making sure it's locked, then she

turns and moves into the...

DARK DINING ROOM

Cici finds the light switch. CLICK! The room is

illuminated. Two long dining tables run the length of

the room. It's empty. Void of the Figure.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

A large, dark kitchen. Cici moves to the frig and opens

it, She gives it the once over. The frig light reflects

against her face. She closes the refrigerator, not

seeing the Shadow that bounces across her back.

Cici moves to a sliding glass door that overlooks the

backyard. She checks the lock. Secure. Then, the phone

RINGS.

She turns to the phone that's attached to a nearby

wall. It RINGS AGAIN. She reaches for it, answering it.

SUDDENLY, TWO HANDS LUNGE OUT OF THE DARKNESS

One finds her neck, the other grabs her by the hair,

wrenching her head backwards and spinning her around,

shoving her, pushing her into the...

SLIDING GLASS DOOR

Glass explodes everywhere, shattering to bits as Cici's

body crashes through it, setting off the ALARM. A loud,

shrill RING resonants through the house as Cici's body

lands on the deck outside. Still. (NOTE: WES DOES

REALLY SCARY SHIT HERE.)

EXT. DELTA ZETA HOUSE - MINUTES LATER

Two doors down from Chi Omega. A big, old Gothic home

serves as the Delta Zeta sorority. MUSIC PLAYS from

inside. It sounds like a party.

EXT. DELTA ZETA LIVING ROOM - SANE

The room is filled with fifteen to twenty people.

SORORITY GIRLS and FRAT BOYS who SCREAM and CHEER as

they watch four girls who sit on their knees, hands

behind their back, in front of a coffee table devouring

plates of macaroni and cheese topped with whipped

cream.

Sidney, Hallie, and two other girls, TERI and LUCE tear

into the macaroni with all their might. Gobbling it up,

making a mess of themselves. Mickey is next to Hallie,

coaching her on. On Sid as she finishes her plate.

A whistle BLOWS.

Sid sits up. Macaroni and whipped cream is all over her

face. She smiles the victor. Everyone APPLAUDS.

Hallie, a face full of grime, eyes Sid.

They crack up. Someone passes her a towel. She stands

wiping her face, looking across the room as Derek

enters through the front door. She waves at, him. He

hurries over.

ON HALLIE AND MICKEY

Mickey is cleaning off Hallie's face.

She swats him.

ON SID AND DEREK

Sid and Derek stand arm in arm watching the next round.

He shakes his head.

Suddenly, a FRAT BOY pops into the room.

People begin to stand, moving to the windows and front

door. Sidney looks to Derek.

EXT. DELTA ZETA HOUSE - SAME

Everyone comes flying out of the front door and into

the yard as POLICE CARS WHIP BY. SIRENS BLARING.

ANGLE ON STREET

Two doors down sits the Chi Omega house crawling with

police, ambulances, reporters...

"Yo - let's check it out." "C'mon." The entire crowd

takes off in droves down the street. All except for...

SIDNEY AND DEREK

They stand on the porch, watching as the street becomes

a circus.

CLOSE ON SIDNEY'S FACE

She knows.

INT. CHI OMEGA HOUSE - SAME

Captain Tyler, the Sheriff, police, FBI... the house is

crawling. Dewey sifts around on his own, checking

things out.

IN THE KITCHEN

Captain Tyler and the Sheriff stand at the shattered

glass door.

The Sheriff turns to his men.

Dewey is all ears.

INT. DELTA ZETA HOUSE - SAME

Derek and Sid stand on the porch, his arms around her.

Her face is numb.

Sidney, indifferent, moves through the open front door,

back inside the house. Her face and mind detached from

what's going on. Derek remains on the porch, watching

the spectacle. Slowly, the door behind him closes.

INT. DELTA ZETA LIVING ROOM - SANE

Sid moves through the living room, she grabs her coat

when the phone RINGS. She looks at it suspiciously...

knowingly... she reaches for it.

The VOICE. Low and haunting. Sidney closes her eyes.

When she opens them tears are immediate But still, she

refuses to crack.

The Voice has never sounded more evil... more

seductive. Sidney doesn't flinch. She holds steady.

And with that Sidney hangs up the phone, SLAMMING it

down. Silence. And then...

The Voice comes from inside the room... behind her.

Sidney spins around and finds herself staring at the...

GHOST MASKED FIGURE

But not the one from the movie theater. The one from

Sidney's nightmare long ago. It stands in the foyer

archway, staring at her.

A sustained moment. A stand off. Sidney doesn't move.

But then the killer withdraws his trademark. A long,

steel hunting knife... blood stained.

SIDNEY BOLTS

As the GHOST LEAPS at her. She SCREAMS, dodging him,

ON THE PORCH

Derek hears her SCREAM. He turns to the front door. He

finds it locked. He starts to BEAT on it.

IN THE LIVING ROOM

Sid just dodges the Ghost, just missing the knife's

blade. She bolts through the living room, to the front

door. Derek beats on it from outside.

IN THE FOYER

She struggles with the door, there are too many locks,

the Ghost is already upon her. She looks to the stairs,

thinks better of it... flies through the dining room.

INT. FRONT PORCH - SANE

Derek is going nuts trying to get into the house. He

moves along the porch to the windows, looking through.

He watches as the Ghost Figure chases her into the

kitchen. Derek looks about the porch. He rears his foot

back and kicks in the window.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Sid moves through the kitchen to the back door. She

struggles with the lock as the Ghost is right behind

her. She barely makes it out the back door...

EXT. BACK YARD - SAME

A large, fenced in yard. Lots of big oak trees. Sid

flies down the back porch and into the yard. She moves

across it, passed trees and shrubs. She spots a closed

fence door in the back of the yard. She looks behind

her to find...

NOTHING

She scans the yard, the Ghost Figure has completely

disappeared. She moves behind a big tree, hiding behind

it.

Sid stops, catches her breath, then peers from behind

the tree. The yard is completely empty. She goes for

the fence door, slowly moving around the tree.

BUMP! A noise in the darkness. She spins around, still

making her way around the tree, moving backwards,

walking right into a FIGURE. She SCREAMS, spinning

around, finding herself face to face with...

CICI'S BODY

Hanging, dangling, hung from the tree, her stomach a

ripped, bloody mess. Sidney SCREAMS IN UNFORGETTABLE

HORROR. She steps back, falling right into the arms

of...

DEWEY

She turns, SCREAMING.

He takes her into his arms, comforting her, as she

holds on for dear life.

EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - MORNING

The early sun casts light upon an otherwise dark and

joyless morning as the blood stained campus slowly

comes to life.

EXT. CAMPUS SECURITY STATION - MORNING

The local campus security office has been converted

into a media event. News trucks, cameras and REPORTERS

stand guard outside while inside...

INT. CAMPUS SECURITY STATION - MORNING

The place is packed. No longer just a campus security

office. The place has been converted to the local

police station as well as FBI headquarters. UNIFORMS

and SUITS swarm the place.

In a back section of the room, Sheriff Hartley and

Captain Tyler are in a huge discussion with Dean

Fisher. Tempers are heated. Its been a sleepless night

for all.

Dewey listens to this exchange, slowly stepping

forward.

They both turn to him.

Sheriff Hartley steps forward.

Dewey is not a welcome participant. Eyes roll. Captain

Tyler pulls Dewey aside.

Just then, Gale Weathers appears being ushered in by

TWO UNIFORMS. Dean Fisher greets her with smiles The

FBI and local police fawn over her.

Captain Tyler gives Dewey a patronizing pat on the

back, sending him off.

Dewey's face couldn't be more burned.

INT. CAMPUS SECURITY STATION - MORNING - MINUTES LATER

A chalk board in front of them. Three names are written

on it under the label "Victims" - "MAUREEN EVANS, PHIL

STEVENS, CICI TAYLOR"

Gale is at the chalk board

The room goes quiet. Dewey watches from the back of the

room. His eyes burning holes into Gale.

Captain Tyler sits up.

Dewey speaks up. His voice soft but heard. The entire

room stares at him, knowingly. Gale's eyes find his. He

looks away.

The room breaks into a fury as they jump into action.

Gale stops Captain Tyler.

INT. SIDNEY ' S DORM ROOM - MORNING

Sid, Derek, Hallie, Mickey, and Joel lounge among

pillows and blankets. The remains of a sleepover. Joel

parts the blinds.

ANGLE THROUGH WINDOW

Two plains clothed policemen are in view, milling about

outside - standing guard.

Hallie reads from a notebook in her hand.

Derek puts his arms around her, pulling her close.

Mickey and Hallie argue about this evening. Joel moves

out the door.

Derek kisses her sweetly.

He kisses her again.

INT. STUDENT UNION - LATER

A huge one-stop for students. Comprised of several open

floors, it looks like a mini-mall. A cafeteria, book

store, movie theatre, arcade, etc. fill the place.

Gale moves through the lobby area when she sees Debbie

Salt heading her off. She tries to bolt but she's not

fast enough.

Gale charges off, moving to a nearby newsstand. The

tabloid papers exploit what's going on. Crazy headlines

about the murders dominate the newsrack.

Gale is clearly bothered by this. Just then, a phone

RINGS. She pulls it from her pocket.

It's the Killer. His voice is unmistakable.

Gale knows immediately. She looks around for help. A

CAMPUS COP is across the lobby.

Gale gets testy with him.

Gale stops cold. She looks around. The place is alive

with people. He could be anywhere.

She continues moving to the Campus Cop.

A deadly warning. Gale stops. She plays it cool. She

looks above her to the upper floor. STUDENTS hang over

a balcony.

Silence.

CLICK. The phone goes dead. Gale spins around, doing

quick circle to make sure no one's around her. She

turns and heads off, right into...

DEWEY

They both GASP.

INT. CAMPUS THEATRE - DAY

A large tiered theatre. Seats five-hundred. Old but

preserved and updated. A rehearsal is in progress.

SEVERAL ACTORS stand stage center running lines as

stagehands work on the set around them.

Sidney is one of them. She moves around the stage, very

animated. More alive than ever. She dons a Russian

accent. Convincing. A promising actress.

An awkward silence. Everyone looks at each other.

Finally, Lois, the bitchy sorority girl speaks up.

The actors break up as Sidney, frustrated, walks across

a make shift bridge that takes her across the orchestra

pit and down the stairs into the house where Hallie

sits watching. Sid's bodyguards can be seen sitting

scattered about.

The DIRECTOR, mid-30's, intelligent, friendly.

Sid nods in agreement. The Director smiles at her.

She grabs her things and heads off with Hallie when...

Sid turns to find Randy moving through an aisle. He had

been watching rehearsal. Sid's face tenses.

Sid is definite. Hallie backs off, heading up the

aisle, against her better wishes.

Sidney looks at him Long and hard, a smile slowly

appearing.

He nods, knowingly.

INT. CAMPUS SECURITY STATION - AFTERNOON

Gale and Dewey are with Captain Tyler and Sheriff

Evans.

Tyler doesn't argue. He's too crazed. Dewey avoids

Gale's stare.

INT. CINEPLEX MOVIE THEATRE - LITTLE LATER

A movie is in progress. STAB.

ON SCREEN

A young girl, looking a lot like Tori Spelling, runs

down a school corridor. She runs smack into a young,

handsome boy. He could very well be Johnny Depp.

IN THE THEATRE

Sid and Randy sit in the small cineplex mall type

theatre. Behind them sit Sid's trusting police guards.

Sidney shifts in her seat.

ON SCREEN

Tori Spelling and Johnny Depp continue their dramatic

discussion.

IN THE THEATRE

Sidney grows increasingly uneasy.

INT. STUDENT CAFETERIA - LATER

Mickey, Joel, and Derek are crowded around a table in

the Student Union Cafeteria.

Hallie comes waltzing up.

Hallie plops down, giving Mickey a big kiss.

Hallie kisses Mickey again.

Suddenly, he leaps up on the cafeteria table and begins

to sing at the top of his lungs.

Everyone has taken notice. They begin to cheer and sing

with him.

Hallie can't help but be touched. He finishes up,

ending on a last, final note. As he does, he pulls a

necklace from around his neck. His Greek letters dangle

from it. He places them around her neck, kissing her.

Hallie breaks away. She swats him.

Hallie smiles, her eyes misty. Derek and Joel eye each

other.

INT. CINEPLEX MOVIE THEATRE - LITTLE LATER

Sid and Randy continue watching the movie. The guards

behind them are way engrossed.

ON SCREEN

It's the end of the movie. Tori Spelling is running for

her life from two killers - Johnny Depp and his

sidekick. She finds herself trapped in the kitchen.

Johnny Depp holds the knife up to Tori's face.

IN THE THEATRE

These words sting Sid. Randy notices her flinching.

ON SCREEN

Tori starts to cry.

IN THE THEATRE

Tears find their way down Sidney's cheeks.

ON SCREEN

Johnny Depp and his murderous sidekick start stabbing

each other.

IN THE THEATRE

Sidney can't take it anymore. She gets up and races out

of the theatre.

INT. LOBBY - A SECOND LATER

Sid emerges from the theatre and into the lobby. She

moves into a curtained section where the water fountain

is. She looks up and sees Randy flying out of the

theatre. He exits outside looking for her. The cops are

right behind him.

Sidney spins around. Cotton Weary stands before her.

shoulders slumped, his face pained.

A long silence. Sidney is hanging on by threads.

More silence.

And with that, Cotton flips on a dime. His face turns

evil. Sidney races by him as he throws out his arm,

stopping her just as...

THE TWO POLICE GUARDS

Appear, grabbing him from behind. They throw him

against the wall, retaining him. Randy appears at Sid's

side.

Sid nods as she watches the officers arrest him. They

do a body search, pulling from his coat a large

revolver. Cotton just smiles.

EXT. CAMPUS LIBRARY - LATER

Sid and Randy walk up the steps to the school library.

The ever helping guards behind them.

She mimes an air lock valve.

There's something sad about this exchange. These two

people understand each other

Sidney watches as Randy shoves off, disappearing across

campus. Sid turns to find Derek leaning against a pole.

A long moment. He looks at her, hoping she'll say

otherwise.

Derek nods. So that's how it's going to be. He turns

and wanders off, not looking back once.

EXT. NEWSVAN - CAMPUS - LATER

The newsvan is parked at a curb. It sits out of the way

overlooking the student commons area. A grassy area

where students sit and conjugate.

Gale walks back and forth with the cellular attached to

her ear. Dewey sits leans against the van, watching

her. He still has a crush but hides it as best he can.

Gale hangs up, she looks to Dewey. Smiles.

Gale stares at him, stunned. A moment as the tension

swirls about them.

Dewey approaches her. Gale has never been more taken

with him. They stand incredibly close.

They're nearly touching now. Just then, Randy

approaches.

Gale backs away from Dewey, breathless. Her cellular

phone RINGS. She eyes Dewey, then hands it to Randy.

Randy takes the phone.

Shit! Randy motions to Gale and Dewey. It's him. He

points around campus, mouthing "He's watching." Gale

grabs Dewey.

Gale and Dewey race off, across the grassy area where

STUDENTS come and go.

ON RANDY

He holds the phone, scared, not knowing what to say?

Randy eyes Dewey and Gale, they move through Students,

searching.

ON DEWEY AND GALE

They move through passing STUDENTS.

Dewey is on the his walkie. "I need back-up." He has a

hard time keeping up with Gale. He hobbles along.

BACK ON RANDY

He goes on a tirade pacing back and forth.

ON GALE AND DEWEY

Gale spots a YOUNG MAN, sitting with some other KIDS.

He's talking on a cellular phone. She races to him and

rips it from his hands. He leaps up ready to pounce on

her.

Dewey appears.

BACK ON RANDY

Randy won't let up. He continues dissing.

Suddenly the newsvan door RIPS OPEN, a GHOST MASKED

FIGURE lunges out grabbing Randy by the neck. The move

is quick and precise. A hard yank and Randy is wrenched

back into the newsvan. The door SLAMS shut.

ON DEWEY AND GALE

As they run back to the newsvan. SIRENS are heard in

the distant. Gale races up to find Randy nowhere.

Dewey circles the van as Gale moves to the sliding side

door. She tears it open as...

RANDY'S BODY FALLS OUT. Blood everywhere. His throat

slit.

Gale's SCREAM is heard all over campus.

EXT. CRIME SCENE - NEWSVAN - LATER

Yellow tape has been placed around the newsvan. People

have gathered as Randy's body is taken out on a

stretcher.

Captain Tyler and Sheriff Hartley share frustrated

faces.

Different UNIFORMS whirl by.

Sheriff Hartley looks up as REPORTERS flock them,

surrounding them in questions.

INT. LIBRARY - RESEARCH COMPUTER ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

A room of the library sectioned off exclusively for

computer use. It consists of thirty to forty cubicles

that house computer terminals. Every cubicle is full.

The place is packed.

Sid sits at a terminal busy at work. Her two police

guards wander up and down the cubicles keeping an eye

out.

CLOSE ON SIDNEY

Her face appears concentrated, focused. She scans the

computer screen in front of her.

ON THE MONITOR

Sid is typing feverishly. Suddenly, her screen starts

flashing and BEEPING, freezing her words.

ON SIDNEY

Confused, she tries to make it stop but it won't. She

leans back, turning to the GUY next to her. A handsome

young man.

The guy leans over and takes a look at Sid's monitor.

The guy returns to his own computer. Sidney eyes the

screen suspiciously. She hits ALT + M. A message pops

up on the screen.

"YOU'RE GOING TO DIE TONIGHT."

Sidney freaks. A muffled CRY. She shoots up, looking

about the crowded room. He could be anywhere. The two

guards take notice, rushing over to her.

She points to the screen. The men instantly break up

and cover the room. They start pulling people from

their terminals to check their screens.

Sidney backs away from her screen, her terror growing.

Suddenly, it starts flashing and BEEPING again. She

looks around. She slowly moves toward it, drawn

uncontrollably. She hits ALT + M. Another message pops

up:

"THE POLICE CAN'T SAVE YOU."

CLOSE ON SIDNEY'S FACE

It's stone pale. She takes a deep breath and begins to

type.

ON THE MONITOR

The words "FUCK YOU" appear. Sid hits "SEND".

INT. CAMPUS SECURITY STATION - PRIVATE OFFICE - LITTLE

LATER

Captain Tyler and Sheriff Hartley are drilling a very

subdued and cool Cotton.

INT. CAMPUS SECURITY STATION - OUTER OFFICE

Gale sits at a table. Dewey approaches. He places a

hand on her shoulder. They're both at a loss.

Silence.

Just then, the Sheriff and Captain emerge from their

office. Cotton is escorted out behind them. Gale moves

to him.

ON COTTON

He stands at a counter, signing forms. Gale approaches.

She looks him dead in the eyes.

Just then, the OFFICER behind the counter brings him

his gun in a plastic bag. Cotton takes it out and

checks it over. Gale is surprised to see the gun.

Cotton pockets the gun and heads out. Gale rejoins

Dewey and the others.

EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT

Day turns to night and college life comes to a deadly

stand still as everyone observes the imposed campus

restrictions.

EXT. SIGMA PHI EPISILON - NIGHT

The fraternity house sits dark and quiet. A YOUNG MAN

walks up the walk to the front door. He TAPS on it

three times and it quietly opens as he's ushered in.

INT SIGMA PHI HOUSE - NIGHT - SAME

The young man makes his way down a long hallway, down a

spiral staircase, through a thick basement door and

into...

A RAGING PARTY

Music peels paint as YOUNG COLLEGE STUDENTS rock to

deafening tunes. A row of kegs line one wall as a the

party gears up for a drunken night ahead.

Derek is seen with his video camera. He's filming Lois

and Murphy. They talk into the camera. Both tipsy

chatty.

Mickey approaches as Derek finishes up.

They take off to the kegs.

Derek shrugs. He's clearly upset by it when from out of

nowhere, SEVERAL FRAT BOYS appear, picking Mickey up,

lifting him over their heads. Everyone starts CHEERING

and CLAPPING.

They carry him around the room, CHANTING. The frat boys

abduct Mickey, taking him up the stairs and out sight.

Others lookie loo's follow. Derek grabs his camera and

bolts.

INT. SIDNEY'S DORM ROOM - EVENING

Sidney is trying to focus on homework while Hallie

channel surfs. She finds a channel. On screen, Siskel a

Ebert are reviewing a movie.

Hallie clearly wishes she were there.

They're reviewing STAB. Hallie switches channels.

There's a KNOCK on the door. Sid answers - it's Dewey

and Gale. From the look on their faces...

EXT. DELTA ZETA HOUSE - BACK YARD- LITTLE LATER

SPLAT! Gobs of gooey food goes flying through the air

exploding perfectly all over...

MICKEY

Who stands buck naked, tied... chained to a tree in the

back yard. The yard is crowded with FRAT BOYS and

SORORITY GIRLS who delight in torching him. Mounds of

syrup, eggs, and other wet and slimy food is plunged

upon him.

More food and slime come barreling at him. A drunk Lois

and Murphy pull the police tape down from the previous

night's crime scene and begin to Mayflower him. The

crowd goes crazy.

INT. SIDNEY'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Hallie consoles Sidney. Dewey and Gale nearby. Sidney

is a stone rock. It's frightening to watch her hold it

together.

Sidney starts packing an overnight bag.

A burn. It comes out of nowhere. Gale goes silent. A

KNOCK at the door. Dewey opens to find a Police guard

standing with Joel.

Joel is ushered in. He says his hello's, moving to

Hallie. Gale and Dewey move out into the hall with the

guards. Sid continues to pack. Her face rigid.

He points to Dewey who talks to Gale in the hallway.

She gives Sidney a hug before she can object, then she

and Joel race out into the hallway as Dewey sticks his

head in.

He looks at Joel and Hallie.

Gale steps in.

Hallie and Joel race outta there before any more

objections. Dewey turns to Gale.

Dewey turns to Sid who now stands ready in the doorway.

Sidney's exterior keeps hardening.

EXT. DELTA ZETA HOUSE - BACK YARD- LITTLE LATER

Mickey is still tied to the tree. He's so completely

covered in hardened gook it looks like he's wearing

clothes. The last of the crowd has left. They've gone

back to the party. He stands shivering in the cold.

He checks the chain that holds him secure. It's

composed of several bike locks and steel twine. He's

not going anywhere.

BUMP! He hears a noise. He looks to the nearby shrubs

and beyond. Nothing. Just a noise of the night.

INT. DEREK'S DORM ROOM - LATER

A dark room. A slight disturbance at the door and it

comes popping open. Light from the hall floods the room

as Dewey and Gale slip in and close the door behind

them.

Dewey pulls out his flashlight and begins to search the

room. He sifts through drawers and a closet.

Gale LAUGHS at this. She reaches over and pats his

buttock.

Dewey points the light to a framed picture. It's of

Joel and Derek - a buddy pose. She sifts through some

text books on the desk.

A moment. Then in a splash, they're outta there.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - MINUTES LATER

A squad car makes it's way down the quiet campus

street.

INT. SQUAD CAR - SAME

Sidney sits in the backseat. The two police officers

ride in front.

The car comes to a halt in front of a stop light.

Sidney smiles at this just as the car door rips open on

the passenger's side. Two hands reach in and yank

Police Guard #2 from the car. He starts to CRY OUT but

it's cut short.

Sid SCREAMS as the Police Guard behind the wheel

struggles with his seat belt. He looks up to see a

Ghost Masked Figure move around the side of the car

towards his door. He reaches for his gun but it's too

late. The Ghost has the door open.

A flash of silver and the Police Guard's throat is

slit.

IN THE BACK SEAT

Sidney SCREAMS and SCREAMS, BEATING on the door of the

car. It won't open. She's trapped like a caged animal.

IN THE FRONT SEAT

The Ghost pulls the Police Guard from the car, then

gets in, behind the driver's seat. The Ghost puts the

car in drive and takes off down the road.

Sidney looks behind her as the guard's dead bodies lay

sprawled in the middle of the road. She turns to the

door, BEATING and CLAWING at it. She leans back, manic,

and KICKS at the window with her feet. No use.

EXT. CAMPUS DRIVE - SAME

The car makes its way down the deserted street

IN THE BACKSEAT

Sidney is beyond frantic. She eyes the Ghost through

the gate. She turns and twists looking for an escape.

Through the window, she sees approaching headlights.

She SCREAMS through the closed window as a car passes

by.

Sidney takes notice as the car turns onto another

campus street. Big, stone school buildings line each

side of a thin, road.

She eyes the Ghost through the rearview window. The

white masks turns as hidden eyes bore through her. The

Ghost hits the gas, picking up speed.

Sidney looks to the book bag on the seat beside her.

She rips it open, rustling through it frantically. She

pulls books, pencils, paper... Sid grabs a long, yellow

No.2 pencil. She grips it hard, looking to the metal

grate just behind the driver's seat. The Ghost's neck

is right up against it.

Sid takes the pencil and positions it right behind the

Ghost's head, ready to attack.

Without pause, Sid RAMS the pencil through the grate,

into the Ghost's neck. It lodges there as the Ghost

falls forward in pain, losing control of the wheel for

a moment.

The car jumps the curb and SLAMS against a building.

The Ghost yanks the wheel, over correcting. He tries to

bring it back to the road but doesn't see the lamp post

that stands directly in the car's path.

The Squad car makes direct contact with the lamp post,

SLAMMING into it, bringing the car to a CRASHING HALT,

lodging it agaisnt the building's stone exterior.

Smoke rises from a bashed engine as it emits a fatal

rumbling.

INSIDE THE CAR

All is still. In the backseat, Sidney rises from the

floorboards. She looks up to see the Ghost Masked

figure slumped over the steering wheel. Out.

Sid quickly pulls herself together, looking about,

sizing up her options. She tugs on the door handle. It

won't budge. She looks to the passenger's side of the

car. It's flush against the building.

Then she notices the metal grate. The edge has been

pried apart in the crash. Sidney reaches for it,

pulling on it, bending it backwards...

CREAK!

Sid tries to stifle the noise it makes, all the while

eyeing the Ghost who remains unconscious. She creates

an opening large enough for her to crawl through. She

lifts herself up and pulls herself through to the...

FRONT SEAT

Sid falls down into the seat, her eyes never leaving

the Ghost. She lay crumpled up against the smashed

passenger's door, the only sound is her own TERRIFIED

BREATHING. She watches the Ghost Masked Figure. His

body doesn't move. She contemplates her next move.

The only way out is through the driver's door.

After what seems an eternity, she slowly reaches over

with her foot and nudges the Ghost. No movement.

Nothing.

She slides across the seat towards the Ghost, moving to

his side. She reaches with her hand and pushes on the

Ghost's shoulder. His body moves, slumping back against

the back of the seat. It clears space for her to pass

through.

She sits up on her feet, facing the Ghost. With her

leg, she reaches over him, straddling him. She leans

against the steering wheel, her arm quickly reaching

for the door knob.

HONK!

Her back brushes against the horn. Sid TENSES, her face

a little more than a foot from the Ghost Mask. He

doesn't move. He's completely out cold. Sid pushes the

car door open and starts to slide completely over the

Ghost when she stops.

She looks to the Ghost.

CLOSE ON HER FACE

As she fights with a decision. Then, with a fierce

determination, Sid reaches for the Ghost Mask. She

finds the edge and begins to peels the Mask away

when...

THE GHOST COMES TO LIFE

Lunging forward. Sidney SCREAMS, leaping, falling out

the car door.

OUTSIDE THE CAR

BAM!

Sid hits the pavement hard. She lifts herself up when

her entire body is YANKED VIOLENTLY BACKWARDS.

The Ghost has hold of her foot, pulling her back into

the car. Sidney KICKS and WRITHES breaking free. She

hops to her feet as the Ghost emerges from the car.

Sidney SLAMS the car door shut. It catches the Ghost,

knocking him backwards.

Sid tears off, down the street, running, burning up the

pavement.

EXT. FILM SCHOOL - MINUTES LATER

The film school sits in the still darkness.

INT. HALLWAY - SAME

Dewey and Gale move down a dark and shadowed hallway.

THUMP! They stop cold.

Dewey keeps moving.

Dewey has lead her to a door marked "LECTURE HALL".

INT. LECTURE HALL - SAME

The same room seen earlier. A large, rounded room with

three levels of seats that shoot straight up to the

ceiling. A podium stands center. Video monitors hang

from the ceiling in different places around the room.

Dewey and Gale enter. If not for the red EXIT SIGNS

that hang over the exit doors, the room would be

completely dark.

They move down the first level of chairs to the

lecturn.

CLICK! STATIC! A noise from above takes their

attention. They looks up as a video monitor comes to

life. Images appear.

CLOSE ON MONITOR

Home-made video footage fills the screen. A movie

theatre, people standing in line. The home camera ZOOMS

in to a YOUNG COUPLE. Maureen and Phil come into view.

ON DEWEY AND GALE

Gale watches the screen as Dewey looks around the room,

searching for it's source.

CLICK! Another monitor comes to life. More home shot

video footage. This time of a big house. A closer look

reveals it to be the Chi Omega Sorority House. A young

girl stands on the front porch talking on a portable

phone. It's Cici.

ON GALE AND DEWEY

CLICK! ANOTHER MONITOR TURNS ON.

It's Randy standing outside the newsvan with the

cellular phone to his ear.

CLICK! Another monitor turns on. It's of a man and

woman back to the camera. The couple move in frame. It

becomes apparent quick. It's Gale and Dewey. As they

stand in the room - live. They're being taped.

CLOSE ON DEWEY AND GALE

Dewey spins around. He reaches for the gun he no longer

carries.

He looks around the room, up to the two levels above

them. He spots a small light on the second level. He

squints his eyes and sees a FIGURE standing behind it.

Dewey hands her his flashlight and takes off for the

stair rise that leads to the upper level.

But Dewey is gone, leaving Gale alone. She turns to the

monitor to see her face in fear-stricken CLOSEUP.

ON THE UPPER LEVEL

Dewey moves fast, limping his way to the level's edge.

He approaches the railing and makes his way around to

the shining light.

He reaches it, finding nothing but a camera and tripod.

It sits alone against the railing. Dewey surveys the

second level. Empty seats everywhere. Completely bare.

Dewey looks down to the main floor... to Gale who looks

up to him.

Dewey turns to leave, his eye catching a monitor that

hangs level with the railing. On the monitor, Gale is

in frame, looking up at Dewey, her face fear stained.

She takes a step forward, moving out of frame,

revealing

THE GHOST

Who stands right behind her. Dewey looks down to see

the Ghost standing directly behind Gale.

DOWN BELOW

Gale turns just in time to see the gleam of a killer's

knife as it darts out of the darkness. Gale catapults,

just dodging it. She moves like lightning up the aisle

of seats.

UP ABOVE

Dewey races for the stairs, going as fast as his

handicapped leg will allow.

DOWN BELOW

Gale tears out the exit door, the Killer right behind

her.

AT THE LECTURN

Dewey arrives, searching, looking for Gale.

He eyes the exit door as it slowly closes. He moves for

it.

INT. CORRIDOR - SAME

Gale races down the hallway, eyeing the nearest door.

She tears it open, disappearing into...

INT. SOUND STAGE - SAME

Gale finds herself in the student studios. She stands

in a huge control booth that overlooks a dubbing stage.

Lots of glass walls and doors. It has a maze quality.

Gale moves out a side door and into a dubbing room.

Darkness everywhere Gale stops for a second, listening

as she main door CREAKS open. And then FOOTSTEPS are

heard, making their way towards her.

Gale proceeds deeper into the studio. She moves into a

sound proof room and closes the door. Not seeing the...

GHOST FIGURE

That stands behind her. She turns around and SCREAMS.

She starts out, but then realizes he's standing in the

control booth. She's protected by a clear, large,

plexiglass window that wraps around the room. The ghost

moves out the side door, heading her way. He disappears

out of view. Gale freaks. She races to the door, trying

to secure it. There's no lock.

AT THE MAIN DOOR

Dewey slips through quietly, trying his best to be

quick on his toes. Through the control booth window, he

immediately spots Gale.

INSIDE THE DUBBING ROOM

Gale looks for objects to block the door with. She

drags a shelf of sound equipment towards the door.

OUTSIDE THE DUBBING ROOM

Dewey moves to the window.

She doesn't hear him. The room is sound proof. He BEATS

against the glass. Still, she doesn't turn to him.

INSIDE THE DUBBING ROOM

Gale shoves everything she can find against the door,

not seeing or hearing Dewey as he POUNDS against the

sound proof barrier behind her.

She also doesn't see the Killer that appears behind

Dewey. He moves on him swift and focused.

INSIDE THE DUBBING STAGE

Gale can't take her eyes off the door. Her face is

terrified. If she'd only turn around, she would see

Dewey - his face terror stricken as a knife is hurled

into him repeatedely. With each thrust, blood is

splattered against the glass.

IN THE CONTROL BOOTH

Dewey SCREAMS for his life, caught completely off

guard. He falls forward onto the control panels.

Suddenly, microphone feedback tears through the studios

as Dewey's CRIES are heard throughout the stage.

IN THE DUBBING STAGE

Dewey's DEATH SCREAM rips through the room.

Gale turns to the window to see Dewey, his face smashed

against it, blood smeared across the glass. She moves

to the window, her face only inches from his. A moment

as their eyes meet. Dewey's life is near gone. His eyes

reveal it.

Gale BEATS against the glass window.

Dewey's body slides down, out of view. Gale is

mortified. She looks to the Killer who has already made

his way through the control booth. He's coming for her.

She races to the door, throws the things away.

She manages to pull the door open just enough to slide

through. And she's off and running.

Gale finds a door and plows through it, stopping only

long enough to lock it.

BAM! The Ghost RAMS it from the other side but it

holds. Gale surveys her surroundings. She's in a

storage room. She eyes another door. She moves through

it and out into...

THE HALLWAY

Gale shoots down it.

EXT. CAMPUS STREET - SECONDS LATER

Sidney races down the deserted street. Not a soul in

sight. She reaches a corner, moves off the road and

passes through a series of trees and shrubs, coming out

onto...

EXT. SORORITY ROW - SAME

The houses have long since gone to sleep. The Delta

Zeta House stares at Sidney. Lights burn from within.

Sid goes for it.

EXT. DELTA ZETA FRONT PORCH - SAME

Sid makes her way up the front porch. She POUNDS on the

front door, SCREAMING her lungs out.

Sid wastes no time, she moves along the wraparound

porch, beating at the windows. But nothing. Everybody

is off partying. Suddenly, Sid hears something. A

WHIMPERING. She turns to find Murphy and Lois, laying,

strewn across the end of the porch. Passed out.

Sid runs to them.

Sid kneels over Murphy, shaking her. Murphy's eyes open

and she GIGGLES. The girl is completely wasted. She has

no comprehension skills at all.

Sid looks to Lois. She's in worse shape.

Sid contemplates, not knowing what to do. She leaves

them, moving down off the porch and around to the back

of the house. She gets to the back door, tries it. It's

locked too.

Sidney checks out the yard. Off to the side, she spots

a big tree with a...

BODY, lying next to it in a heap on the ground She

moves toward it.

As Sid approaches she sees clearly that it's Mickey. He

lay on his side, curled, knees to chest, his arm still

chained to the tree.

A look of dread creeps across her face. He lay there

very much dead.

She kneels over his body just as it stirs, lifting up,

rising. Mickey's face comes into view, coated in dried

funk, his eyes wide.

Mickey pulls on his chained arm.

Sid inspects the chain. It's meant to hold.

Sidney moves to the shed that's attached to the garage.

Leaning against the side are a row of garden tools. Sid

settles on a shovel.

Sid returns to Mickey who has risen to his feet. He's

pulling and twisting the bike chain that binds him.

Sid lifts the shovel up and brings it down directly on

the lock. It bends somewhat but stays in tact.

CLANK! A noise behind them. They both spin around

peering into the night.

Sidney, determined, raises the shovel high and brings

it down with great force. It CRACKS the lock, loosening

it.

Mickey pulls on it. It won't quite give.

Sid raises the shovel again, unfaltering. She doesn't

see the Ghost Masked Figure that slides down from the

tree branch behind her. The Figure moves quickly and

gracefully, coming to a stance directly behind Sid.

Mickey looks up, just in time.

Sid turns just as the Killer strikes. But Sid is ready.

Without thought, she swings the shovel at the Ghost,

catching his mid-section, sending him flying.

Mickey goes ballistic chained to the tree. He pulls,

twists, squirms... anything to free himself.

The Ghost rises, moving on Mickey. Sidney sees this.

Sidney distracts the Ghost. She takes off, the Ghost

following her. She moves around the tree, sprinting

across the yard, running smack into...

THE GHOST MASKED KILLER

But Sidney spins around as two Ghosts appear on each

side of her. She stands THUNDERSTRUCK as the two

Killers descend on her. She dives between the two but

they counter, keeping her surrounded.

Sid watches as one of the Ghosts withdraws his knife.

She turns to the other. His knife is already poised.

They close in on her, ready to strike.

She looks for an escape. There's not one. BAM!

Suddenly, Mickey appears, barreling into one of the

Ghosts. They go sprawling across the grass.

Sidney makes her break, she runs passed them, towards

the front of the yard.

Mickey leaps to his feat. The Killer right behind him.

He now finds himself in Sid's predicament. He doesn't

know where to run. The two Killer's close in on him.

Sidney gets to the corner of the house. She stops...

she doesn't want to leave Mickey. She turns back around

just in time to see...

Mickey sandwiched in between the two Ghosts. They're

knives strike at the same time. One through the

stomach, the other through the back. They withdraw

their knives. Mickey's body suspends, momentarily

hanging in the air. Then collapses to a heap on the

ground.

Both Ghosts turn to Sid at the same time. She takes off

running, along the side of the house, through a row of

shrub that take her to...

EXT. STREET - SAME

Sid is back on the campus street, running down the

middle of it.

She spots a car stopped at a red light half a block up.

KIDS are inside, rock music BLARES. Sid SCREAMS and

SCREAMS but they don't hear her. She runs, feet

pounding, toward them but the light turns green and the

car takes off. It's taillights fading in the night.

She turns finding herself alone in a parking lot. The

theatre sits in the distance. She spots someone

entering the theatre. It looks like Hallie.

But Hallie doesn't hear her. Sid races forward.

EXT. CAMPUS MINUTES LATER

Gale races down the empty campus street. She eyes an

emergency phone that's attached to a street lamp. She

goes for it.

Gale rips the phone from its cradle, presses the CALL

button.

Just then, Gale hears a NOISE. A door opening. She

looks up to see Sidney disappear through the side

theatre door.

But Sidney has already disappeared inside. Gale yells

into the phone.

Gale throws the phone down and tears off for Sidney.

INT. THEATRE SAME

The theatre is big and old. Plush chairs, balcony, huge

proscenium stage.

Sidney enters through a side house door. She pulls on

it, releasing the emeregency lock. She makes her way

down the aisle toward the orchestra section.

The stage is dark and bare with the exceptions of the

furniture from the DEATHTRAP set. BUMP! A noise from

the stage wings.

Sidney moves down front to the little bridge that

extends out over the orchestra pit. She crosses it and

moves to stage center, peering into the wings on either

side of her.

Complete darkness.

DRIP! DRIP!

Something drips down from above and onto Sidney. She

wipes it from her face when...

CLICK! A spot light turns on from the back of the

house, illuminating Sid center stage. She jumps at

this, unnerved. She looks to her hand, covered in

crimson. Then out to the house... the light is

blinding.

CLANK! A NOISE from above..ropes, pulleys moving. Sid

looks up as a set wall comes PLOWING down at her. She

leaps out of the way, falling to the floor.

The wall falls into place on the stage. It is the back

wall of the set that's dressed with framed pictures and

antique weapons and...

DEWEY

Who hangs from it, pinned up against the wall, very

much deadk, arms outstretched, crucified. His body a

bloody mess. Sidney stops, stunned. She stands frozen

in unspeakable horror. Her entire being ripped apart.

She breaks into tears. And then...

Sid backs up, moving, racing toward the wings when

another wall flies in, sealing the backstage area off,

trapping her. She looks in shock at...

HALLIE

Strung up, her body hanging lifeless. Sid SCREAMS,

turning, running to the other side of the stage when a

third wall comes flying in, creating the three walled

set of DEATHTRAP.

Attached to it, is the body of Joel. Dead. Blood

everywhere. And then, Sid hears...

CLAPPING!

A single pair of hands from somewhere in the house...

applauding. She turns around and spots a FIGURE moving

down the aisle. She can't make out who it is.

Sid bolts. She spots the set door up center, near

Dewey's body. She goes for it, ripping it open to

find...

COTTON WEARY STANDING IN THE DOORFRAME

Sid SCREAMS. But then sees his face, he looks scared.

And then, Cotton's body falls forward to the floor, his

arms and legs bound by electric tape.

Sid turns back to the front of the stage. The Figure is

now walking across the bridge, holding something... a

light attached to a video camera. She's being filmed.

Sid looks back to Cotton who looks up to her with

pleading eyes.

Sid is paniced. She doesn't know what to do. She leans

down to untie him but stops.

Sidney looks to the voice. The camera is pulled away to

reveal...

DEREK

He smiles at her.

Sidney remains silent.

Side backs away from Cotton. She doesn't trust either

one of them. Derek watches her, amused.

Derek begins filming again.

Sidney says nothing. She egdes away, moving to the wall

where Hallie hangs.

Suddenly, Hallie comes to life behind Sid, reaching

out, grabbing her. Sid JUMPS. She spins around to find

Hallie breaking out in a torrent of GIGGLES. Very much

alive.

Sidney stares in mortal shock as Hallie cuts herself

down from the wall with a big hunting knife.

Sidney's eyes go back and forth between the two.

Derek's right. Sid's face appears completely tortured.

Sidney stares them down. She's been here before.

Sid is waning.

Sid turns to Cotton. She kneels down and begins to

untie him.

Derek dummy lunges at her with the knife. Sid backs

off.

EXT. THEATRE SAME

Gale approaches the side theatre door. She pulls on it.

It's locked.

She moves down along the theatre to another door.

INT. THEATRE A MINUTE LATER

Hallie and Derek move around Sid, taking turns filming

her with the camera.

Cotton pull and twists on his bound wrists. Sid had

loosened them somewhat. He tries to finish undoing

them.

Derek reaches in his pocket for a coin.

He flips the coin.

IN THE AUDITORIUM

Gale emerges from the lobby. She found a way in. She

eyes the proceedings on stage. She sees Sidney standing

over Cotton. And then Hallie and Derek on either

side... knives in hand. She races down the aisle.

ON STAGE

They all turn, spotting Gale. Sid moves forward, happy

to see her.

IN THE AUDITORIUM

Gale moves down the aisle, not sure what's going on.

ON STAGE

Sidney moves down center. Derek cuts her off just as...

THE CURTAIN DROPS

Gale glimpsed the terror on Sidney's face just as the

curtain separates them.

ON STAGE

Derek grabs Sidney, holding her, the knife at her

throat.

IN THE AUDITORIUM

Gale moves to the exit door and into the...

INT. STAIR WELL SAME

Gale eyes a door that's marked "STAGE DOOR". She opens

it and steps in coming face to face with a...

A LARGE AUTOMATIC REVOLVER

Gale's eyes move down the end of the gun to find...

Gale's face is a mass of confusion.

INT. STAGE SAME

Derek releases Sidney, shoving her, she falls to her

knees, next to Cotton.

CLOSE ON COTTON'S HAND

Hallie moves in on her.

Sid stops dead in her tracks as these words still her

very soul. The Voice comes from the wings. They all

turn as Gale Weathers appears. Behind her, with gun in

hand, is Debbie Salt. Derek grabs the camera. He

doesn't want to miss a second.

Sidney mouth drops, her face aghast, as she looks to

Debbie Salt. She recognizes her immediately.

Gale stops cold.

Gale turns to Debbie Salt.

Sidney is completely horror stricken. She stands in

total disbelief.

Debbie Salt/Mrs. Loomis looks to both Derek and Hallie,

smiling.

Hallie raises her hand.

Debbie points the gun at her, quickly, simply... and

FIRES. Sid and Gale SCREAM as a bullet through the

forehead sends Hallie flying back against the flat

wall. Her body drops to the floor. Dead.

Derek drops the camera, completely taken back. He looks

to Debbie.

Debbie turns the gun on him. FIRES AGAIN. Derek moves,

the bullet catches him in the stomach. He drops to his

knees. Debbie FIRES again. Derek takes another bullet.

This time dropping. Very dead. His body falls near

Cotton who has remained suspiciously quiet through this

ordeal. He eyes Derek's knife that now lay near his

wrists.

SIDNEY AND GALE

Turn to Debbie in complete horror.

Cotton looks up.

Debbie moves to Cotton, shrugging.

Just then, Cotton leans up, freed from his bindings.

With the knife in hand, he lunges for Debbie Salt. It

strikes her, lodging into her chest. She goes back.

Cotton doesn't stop, he stabs her again and again. She

goes down. Dead.

Gale rushes to Cotton as he jumps to his feet. She

helps him with the last of his bindings. Sid looks

about at the body count on stage. It's mounting. She

takes a deep breath. Relieved.

Gale gives him a hug.

CLOSE ON COTTON'S FACE

He hugs her back. She doesn't see as he rises the knife

behind her, bringing it down in one swift, maniacal

move. Gale's body jerks, a moment of shock and then she

goes limp as the knife lodges in her back.

Sidney turns just in time to see Cotton toss Gale's

body down into the orchestra pit. He turns, facing

Sidney. The bloody knife in hand.

Cotton moves to Derek's body where the video camera

lay, he pulls the tape from it.

He holds up the video cassette. Murder in his eye.

Cotton lunges for her. Sid tears off, slipping through

the set door to...

BACKSTAGE

Sid runs to the rear of the stage. She moves in the

narrow space that exists between the scrim and the back

wail. She races down it.

She almost reaches the end when COTTON RIPS THROUGH THE

SCRIM!

Sidney ducks, bypassing him. She comes to the stage

door. It's locked. She turns, seeing the metal ladder

that's attached to the wall. It leads to the catwalk

above.

Sid goes for it. She climbs up the ladder with

lightning speed.

Cotton, up and running, is close behind.

INT. CATWALK SAME

The catwalk sits above the open fly space where flats

and a large chandelier are stored in the air.

Sid reaches the top and takes off running down to the

ending.

AND THAT'S AS FAR AS I'VE GOTTEN.

WHAT HAPPENS IS SID AND COTTON FIGHT TO THE FINISH, HE

CHASES HER THROUGH HANGING FLATS, THEN DOWN THE FLY

RAIL, BACK TO THE STAGE. SID GETS FINDS A KNIFE AND

STABS COTTON.

HE STABS HER BACK. THEY FIGHT, CONTINUING TO STAB EACH

OTHER UNTIL THEY BOTH DROP CENTER STAGE. THEY LAY NEXT

TO EACH OTHER, NEITHER ABLE TO MOVE. THEIR EYES SLOWLY

CLOSE.

THE END (FOR NOW)

