story.  The screenplay is based on court testimony,

sworn declarations, and hundreds of interviews

conducted by the film-makers".  Fade out.

Fade in to second prologue title: "Some of the

innocent characters' names have been changed in the

interests of a larger truth".  Fade out.

Fade in to final prologue title:  "No one involved

in the crimes received any form of financial

compensation".  Fade out.

We hear on the soundtrack the daily morning chatter

of a family rushing to get to work and school.

Subtitle appears:  "2815 Calverton Court.  The

Sutphin Family".  Fade out.

Second subtitle fades in:  "Friday, September 18th,

1992.  7:08am".  Fade out.

BEGIN.

MOM, BEVERLY, a trim, fortyish, pretty Betty Crocker

of the 90's, grabs the toast as it pops up and

butters it. She waves cheerfully out the kitchen

window to the passing GARBAGEMEN on the back of a

Baltimore County garbage truck and then turns to her

husband and children and expertly begins to serve

breakfast.

DAD, EUGENE, the ultimate nice guy and a dentist by

trade, divides the morning paper up between himself

and son CHIP, a cute semi-hip kid who is still in

high-school.  Daughter, MISTY, a pretty and slightly

overweight college student, frantically prices the

junk she plans on selling at the flea market after

classes while gulping down a light breakfast.

MOM smiles kindly, picks up a box of cereal in each

hand and turns to the family.

Title "SERIAL MOM" appears on the screen.

As MOM serves the cereal, she spots a lone fly as it

lands on the butter dish.  Without letting on to her

family, she grabs a flyswatter and begins stalking

the fly with a terrifying intensity, its buzzing

enough to make MOM's head explode.

MOM stalks fly as it lands on CHIP's toast as the

rest of the family remains oblivious to MOM's

building anger.

A sickened and rage-filled MOM stalks the fly to

DAD's orange juice glass where it secretes on the

rim in closeup.

MOM swats violently and we see fly splat in bloody

closeup. ("Directed by John Waters" credit appears).

Family is suddenly silent as they uneasily look up

in surprise at MOM's ferocious attack.

MOM quickly wipes up squashed fly and smiles back at

her family.

END OF CREDITS.

A loud banging is heard on the back door.  MOM jumps up

guiltily.

MOM opens door to two police detectives in plain

clothes.  DETECTIVE MOORE is younger and more rugged

than the older more world-weary DETECTIVE BRADFORD.

Subtitle appears "7:26am" and then fades out.

MOM and DAD open note.  In cut-out letters from a

magazine it reads:  "I'LL GET YOU PUSSY FACE!"

CHIP and MISTY roll their eyes in embarrassment as

bird calls back to MOM.

DAD smiles proudly as detectives look at MOM in

amazement.

A convertible pulls into driveway driven by CHIP's

best friend, SCOTTY BARNHILL, a handsome but sullen

red-necky teen.  Next to him is CHIP's girlfriend,

BIRDIE STUART, a sexy tom-boy with lots of savvy.

Subtitle appears:  "7:41am" and then fades out.

All exit.

SCOTTY guiltily looks up from vintage Betty Page

pin-up mag he's reading and toots horn defiantly in

response as MOM grits her teeth.

DAD pulls off in his car and almost collides with

CARL as he aggressively manoeuvres his car up the

driveway.

CARL PADGETT, a handsome jock climbs out of his car.

MISTY looks hurt.

MOM'S smile freezes on her face as CHIP and BIRDIE

hop in SCOTTY's convertible.

SCOTTY gives MOM a hateful look and peels out.

BRADFORD sit in their unmarked police car, drinking

coffee and filling out police reports.

MOM is sitting on bed, dialing phone with a

determined expression on her face.

Subtitle appears: "9:37am" and fades out.

In split screen, DOTTIE HINKLE, the harrassed middle

aged neighbor, looks at her ringing phone in her

living room with suspicion and finally answers.

MOM giggles to herself like a little kid and

immediately redials the phone.

ROSEMARY ACKERMAN, MOM's frumpy, brittle, busy-body

next door neighbor, is knocking on door, carrying a

sewing basket.

MOM is laughing to herself listening to ringing

phone while MRS. HINKLE, on split-screen, tries not

to answer.  Finally she lunges for it.

ROSEMARY ACKERMAN walks through kitchen, wipes a

finger on window ledge to check for dust and calls

out Beverly's name.

MOM doesn't hear MRS. ACKERMAN as she continues her

phone conversation with MRS. HINKLE.

MRS. ACKERMAN looks up at huge oil portrait of MOM

in ornate frame hanging over couch and calls out

Beverly's name.  Hearing muffled voices behind MOM'S

closed bedroom door at the top of the steps, MRS.

ACKERMAN begins to creep up the steps.

Split screen with MOM and DOTTIE HINKLE.

MRS. ACKERMAN hears muffled shouts and reaches for

door handle.

DOTTIE.

MRS. ACKERMAN barges right in bedroom, almost

catching MOM who expertly snaps back to normal

without missing a beat.

MOM opens sewing box to reveal a pair of gleaming

sewing scissors.

DOTTIE HINKLE, still angry and occasionally cursing

to herself, digs in her prize flower garden out

front of her house behind ornamental wishing-well on

front lawn.  Subtitle appears: "2:15pm" and then

fades out.

Cut to MOM, driving happily by in her station wagon

as she waves to DOTTIE.

DOTTIE sees MOM, tries to look cheerful and waves

back.

Cut back to MOM who looks in her rear view mirror,

sees she's not being followed and suddenly screeches

car into a U-turn as MOM's "Psycho Theme" plays on

soundtrack

MOM's face turns to stone as ripple flashback

effects dissolve to that fateful day in the mall

when MOM pulled up to parallel park and DOTTIE

HINKLE stole her place from behind.

Ripple effects dissolve to the present as the wheels

of MOM'S car skid to a stop.  The car door opens and

MOM's sensible shoes step out as "Mom Psycho Theme"

builds.

MOM closes car door quietly, watches DOTTIE HINKLE

up the street undetected and then takes the scissors

from her purse and hides them up her sleeve.

As MOM sneaks up street towards DOTTIE, intercut are

obsessional flashbacks of details of the traumatic

parking place incident;  MOM'S POV of DOTTIE pulling

into space, DOTTIE'S maddening nonchalance as she

snottily gets out of her car and trots right past

MOM without the slightest apology, MOM'S sputtering

face paralyzed with anger when she realizes there is

nowhere else to park.

Back in the present, MOM starts walking faster and

faster as she sees DOTTIE begin to pack up her

gardening tools to go back inside her house.

Arriving just a second too late as DOTTIE closes the

door behind her, MOM spots a can of gasoline near

DOTTIE's lawnmower.  Thinking fast, MOM dumps gas on

DOTTIE's mail in the mailbox on porch, lights it on

fire and runs from the flames, happily throwing a

coin into DOTTIE's wishing well as an afterthought.

MOM walks as fast as possible back to her car, gets

in and pulls off.  Smiling evily to herself, she

drives by and sees DOTTIE HINKLE screaming in horror

and trying to beat the fire out with a broom.

Parking lot is filled and the few last parents are

entering the building for PTA meeting.  MOM speeds

into lot and gets out of car.  Subtitle appears:

"3:O6pm" and fades out.

MR. STUBBINS, Chip's teacher, is winding down a

one-on-one meeting with another mother, who is in

tears.

CLASSROOM.

Parents are seated in folding chairs waiting to be

called in to conference.  MOM comes rushing down

corridor and other parents greet her.

MR. STUBBINS leans his head out of classroom and

looks at roll book as MRS. TAPLOTTER leaves, dabbing

her tears with a handkerchief.

MOM goes in classroom with him.

They sit on opposite sides of his desk.

MOM'S smile freezes on her face ever so subtly

MOM sits behind wheel of station wagon wearing a

scary smile.  Subtitle appears: "3:32pm" and fades

out.

MOM sees MR. STUBBINS exit school carrying her tin

of fruit cake.  "Mom's Psycho Theme" starts on

soundtrack and she puts her car in gear.

Closeup of wheels of MOM's car beginning to creep

forward

MOM waves innocently to other parents as she stalks

MR. STUBBINS to his car in isolated faculty parking

lot.

A trashy teen girl, LU-ANN, sneaks a joint behind a

bush unnoticed.

Shot of MOM's face staring at MR. STUBBINS in

vengeance.

Over the shoulder shot of MR. STUBBINS walking

directly in MOM's path.

Closeup of MR. STUBBINS looking up and seeing MOM.

He takes a stick of gum from his pocket, unwraps it,

and pops it in his mouth.

MOM's face turns to stone at the last straw of

seeing MR. STUBBINS chewing gum.

MOM's POV of MR. STUBBINS waving to her.

Shot of accelerator being floored by MOM.

Shot of MOM's car peeling out headed straight for

MR. STUBBINS.

MOM's POV of MR. STUBBINS' suddenly terrified

expression.

MR. STUBBINS' POV of MOM'S car speeding at him.

MOM's car hits MR. STUBBINS and sends him flying up

on car hood.

Shot of fruit cake tin hitting ground and rolling.

LU-ANN, the trashy teen girl screams in horror.

MOM turns on windshield wipers to wipe away blood

but they only smear the blood worse.

MOM hits windshield wiper fluid button.

MR. STUBBINS' POV SHOT OF MOM's insanely happy face

through bloodied water.

Suddenly MR. STUBBINS grabs on to side-view mirror

and attempts to grab MOM through side window.

LU-ANN watches in horrified amazement and throws

down joint like it's a hot coal.

MOM starts swerving car but MR. STUBBINS holds on

for dear life, grabbing at MOM, pulling her hair.

MOM struggles and bites his hand like a snapping

turtle.

Shot of sign "SLOW-SPEED BUMPS".

MOM hits speed bump and MR. STUBBINS flies over roof

and lands in a heap behind her.

MOM screeches to a stop.

MOM's POV, through rearview mirror of MR. STUBBINS,

still alive, struggling to his knees.

MOM smiles sweetly.

Closeup of automatic gear shift being thrown into

reverse.

MOM's car backs up swerving in speed towards MR.

STUBBINS.

Low-level MR. STUBBINS' POV of rear of car coming at

him.

MOM'S POV of MR. STUBBINS' desperate struggle to get

out of her path.

Car runs directly over him - THUHP - and chewed up

wad of gum flies out of MR. STUBBINS' mouth.

MOM smiles to herself.

LU-ANN, the only eye-witness, runs away in fear.

MOM peels out and once in main parking lot resumes

waving innocently to other parents as she flees.

MOM swerves car into car wash.

On CHIP's large video screen plays the ridiculously

dated but still appalling scene from "BLOOD FEAST"

where the madman with the corny, madeup eyebrows

rips a girl's tongue out of her mouth in hokey

special effects.

Subtitle reads "4:22pm" and fades out.

CHIP and BIRDIE are hooting and hollering and eating

popcorn as SCOTTY looks up from his vintage

nudist-camp magazine to watch in real horror and

nausea.

SCOTTY starts to gag and tries to hide it,

SCOTTY looks at gore on video, jumps up to run to

bathroom, yanks open bedroom door and screams when

he sees MOM standing there with a plate of chocolate

chip cookies.

He runs past her to the bathroom.

MOM looks at TV monitor and sees madman taking out

heart of girl.  MOM smiles inappropriately.

SCOTTY comes back in room feeling better.

SCOTTY guiltily takes back magazine as BIRDIE drags

him out.

CHIP looks back at his MOM in sudden confusion.

SPIN-WIPE to tomato sauce topped meatloaf being

taken out of the oven by MOM.  Subtitle appears

"6:30pm" and fades out.

DAD, MISTY and CHIP sit around dining room table.

MOM enters with the meatloaf and a smile.

Suddenly a scream from outside is heard.

ROSEMARY ACKERMAN, the busy-body next door neighbor

is running across lawn from her house to the

Sutphins.

Family is getting up from table in alarm.

CHIP and MISTY look at one another and stick fingers

down their throats at mention of MRS. ACKERMAN'S

name.

ROSEMARY ACKERMAN runs in from kitchen in hysterics.

DAD runs in and turns on TV as family and MRS.

ACKERMAN follow and watch under MOM's framed

portrait on wail.

Phone rings.  CHIP grabs the receiver.

We see BIRDIE in split screen.

ANNOUNCER comes on TV.

MOM yawns absentmindedly.

MOM looks up in sudden fear as LU-ANN, the trashy

pot-smoking girl who witnessed murder appears on

screen.

Wipe to MOM finishing a silent prayer kneeling next

to bed as DAD reads a spy novel under the covers.

Subtitle appears: "10:45pm" and fades out.

We see that underneath the cover of the bird book,

MOM is reading "Helter Skelter".  She lightly

caresses a picture of Manson and closes the book and

turns out her light.

We see MISTY, hair in curlers, pricing junk for flea

market, stop and listen to sounds coming from

parents' bedroom.

MOM and DAD are having romantic monogomous sex.

CHIP looks up from reading "Fangoria Magazine" and

listens in horror to his mother's distant moaning.

MOM is panting wildly, a suburban sex machine.  DAD

is amazed but hardly complaining.

CHIP and MISTY open bedroom doors simultaneously,

hear their parents climaxing and look at one another

in complete horror.

Fade to black.

Birds are heard greeting the sunrise with their

happy chirping.  Subtitle appears "Saturday,

September l9th, 5:3Oam" and fade out.

MOM, dressed for bird-watching day-trip, watches the

cute little chickadees nibbling seed out of her

birdfeeder on lawn through binoculars from bedroom

window.  DAD, half-awake, stirs in his bed.

MOM continues tracking the bird in her binoculars

until she freezes in horror at the sight of MRS.

ACKERMAN running her mouth next door to DETECTIVES

MOORE and BRADFORD and pointing to MOM's car.

Suddenly the phone rings with jangling intensity.

MOM jumps.

On split screen is obnoxious man from PTA, MR.

STERNER, holding his jaw in pain.

MOM starts shaking her head "No" to DAD just in

case.

MRS. STERNER, his wife, grabs the phone.

MOM's face changes to purple rage as she turns to

hide her anger from DAD.

MOM's calm turns to immediate rage as she closes

bedroom door and storms her way downstairs as "Mom's

Psycho Theme" blares on soundtrack.

CHIP is sound asleep.  MOM enters in a fury.

MISTY is sobbing in fury as she sits forlornly with

boxed up flea-market junk.  MOM enters and is

startled to see her.

MOM looks out back window in alarm to see DET. MOORE

snooping through her box of recycled newspapers as

DET. BRADFORD noses around her station wagon.

COPS bang loudly on door.  MOM jumps.

Subtitle appears "7:10am" and then fades out.

MOM sees SCOTTY pull up in driveway with BIRDIE in

his convertible.

COPS see magazine cover with the "P" in "People" cut

out as in threatening note sent to Mrs. Ackerman.

DAD looks at MOM suddenly, for the first time

showing slight suspicion.

MRS. ACKERMAN is dumping all her bottles and

newspapers into the rest of her garbage without the

slightest thought of recycling.  Subtitle appears

"10:06am" and fades out.

Cut to GUS and SLOPPY, two Baltimore County

sanitation workers as they pick up bags of

neighbors' recycled trash and scowl in hatred at the

environmentally incorrect MRS. ACKERMAN.

MOM, now alone, is happily separating her cans and

plastic trash into proper recycle bins as she rocks

out singing along with the Barry Manilow record

"Daybreak" that spins on her high-fi set.

MOM looks out through her kitchen window and sees

MRS. ACKERMAN dumping styrofoam packing chips in

with the rest of her un-recycled garbage.  Freezing

in horror, MOM then lunges for MRS. ACKERMAN's

gleaming sewing scissors in borrowed sewing basket

and begins to run out door.

Suddenly MOM sees the friendly GARBAGEMEN waving to

her from truck.  She quickly puts back the scissors,

grabs her recyle bags, locates two "miniatures" of

liquor hidden in kitchen cabinet and runs out back

door.

MRS. ACKERMAN goes back inside her house as MOM

charges out to meet GARBAGEMEN with her recyclables.

"Mom's Psycho Theme" begins building on soundtrack.

"Mom's Psycho Theme" climaxes on soundtrack.

MRS. ACKERMAN is serving brunch to DOTTIE HINKLE as

they drink beer together and watch "The Joan Rivers

Show" on TV as JOAN interviews a fat woman in her

20's.

TV audience groans.

MRS. ACKERMAN does.

MOM runs up to window in a frenzy and freezes at the

sight of DOTTIE HINKLE inside.

DOTTIE looks over and sees MOM in window and

screams.

DOTTIE freezes in horror when she recognizes the

P-word in MOM's voice.

MOM purposely knocks MRS. ACKERMAN's Franklin Mint

Faberge Egg off table and sends it crashing to the

floor.

DAD attempts to do dental work on RALPH STERNER, the

"emergency" patient who lets out a blood curdling

scream every time DAD gets the drill anywhere near

his mouth.

DAD begins to drill again.

MRS. STERNER, reading an old issue of Newsweek, with

Jeffrey Dahmer on the cover, jumps up and runs to

her husband past the RECEPTIONIST.

DET. MOORE and DET. BRADFORD wait grim-faced in the

office.  Subtitle appears "10:35am" and fades out.

Cut to MOM's face, seemingly in the middle of a

frenzy as she jumps around like a crazy person.

Camera pulls back and we see that she is swatting

away a persistent bee as she sits with MISTY at her

flea market table.

Subtitle appears "11:20am" and then disappears.

MOM looks over two rows and sees CARL walking

through the flea market with a SEXPOT DATE.  Her

face turns to stone but she doesn't let on to MISTY.

Cut to MRS. ACKERMAN shopping passionately at the

nearby Franklin Mint booth.

MRS. ACKERMAN bends over grumbling and sees a fire

poker marked with a price tag of $6.O0.  Sneakily

she switches price tag of $3.00 from another item.

MRS. ACKERMAN smirks and pays him.

MRS. ACKERMAN comes back to MISTY's booth carrying

fire poker.

Cut to CARL browsing at same Franklin Mint booth

that MRS. ACKERMAN was shopping in earlier.  SEXPOT

DATE is drooling over chipped Faberge Egg and

batting her eyes at CARL.

Cut to MOM with the fire poker partially concealed

under her coat as she stalks CARL and SEXPOT DATE to

baseball memorabilia booth.  MOM pretends to shop

nearby as CARL buys Oriole penant for himself.

MOM follows them to concession stand where CARL

excuses himself for a quick trip to the men's room.

SEXPOT DATE adjusts her cleavage as she waits, much

to the embarrassment of YOUNG BOY walking by.

Realizing the coast is clear, MOM darts into men's

room following CARL.

CARL is at urinal.  Subtitle appears "11:57am" and

fades out.  MOM rushes in unnoticed and tries to

enter first booth and finds it locked,  She scurries

to next booth and enters.

A male PERVERT in locked booth is drawing dirty

pictures on the wall.  He looks down and sees MOM's

shoes under the stall and starts moaning sexually as

he writes "EAT ME" with a magic marker.

Closeup of CARL's face as he pisses like a

racehorse.

PERVERT looks through peep-hole between booths and

sees MOM and moans in silent orgasm.

MOM pulls fire poker out from under her coat.

PERVERT zips up in a panic and flees bathroom in

fear.

Suddenly MOM runs from her booth with fire poker

drawn and skewers CARL in the back at the urinal.

CARL screams in horror as MOM pulls out fire poker

with his liver skewered on the end.

CARL collapses to his knees, his head landing in

urinal.

MOM looks horrified at the liver and tries to shake

it off poker, panicked that someone will come into

men's room.

Closing her eyes in revulsion, she pulls off liver

with her fingertips and throws it on floor.

Running from men's room, she slips in gore, catches

her balance, looks back at CARL's head in urinal,

hesitates and finally runs back to flush toilet

before escaping undetected.

A hip young couple are buying a hideous amateur oil

painting of Don Knotts from MISTY.

Cut to MOM approaching, looking happy and composed

with fire poker concealed under her coat.

A MACHO MAN enters nibbling lamb off a shishkobab.

He sees CARL's body and screams in the best Fay Ray

tradition.  Subtitle appears "l2:llpm" and then

fades out.

MOM is showing MISTY her new cereal bowl as MRS.

ACKERMAN returns.

Sirens are heard in the distance.

MRS. ACKERMAN notices stain with odd unease.

COPS are holding back CARL'S sobbing and hysterical

SEXPOT DATE as she clutches her Faberge Egg while

PARAMEDICS remove CARL'S body from the mens room on

a stretcher.

DET. MOORE and BRADFORD are roughly frisking

bathroom PERVERT.

MISTY pushes her way through rubbernecking crowd

until she finally sees CARL'S face right before the

PARAMEDICS give the final zip to the body bag.  She

lets out a blood-curdling scream.

DET. BRADFORD looks up into MISTY's horror filled

face and turns in suspicion to DET. MOORE only to

see his partner making eyes with SEXPOT DATE, who in

between sobs, is flirting back with all her might.

MRS. ACKERMAN is looking in revulsion at what

appears to be dried blood on the end of her

fire-poker stored under the flea market table as MOM

happily sells Pee-Wee Herman doll to New York

dealer.

MRS. ACKERMAN reaches down and touches the end of

fire poker and almost faints when she sees red on

her fingertips.

MISTY hysterically returns to booth, crying and

screaming.

MRS. ACKERMAN looks in sudden fear at MOM.

MRS. ACKERMAN gulps in horror.

DAD is frantically searching through MOM's stuff and

finds a scrapbook which is filled page after page

with newspaper clippings about famous mass

murderers.  He gasps in horror and then looks

between mattress and box-springs and finds a stack

of letters and a few cassette tapes.  He looks in

shock at return address of first letter - "Richard

Speck, Statesville Correctional Center, Joliet,

Illinois 60434".  He tears open envelope and out

falls an 8xlO glossy photo of a naked Richard Speck

with the inscription "To Beverly.  Love, Richard

Speck".  Shaking his head in horror, DAD puts

cassette in tape player and pushes play button.  The

voice on the tape booms out in bedroom, "Beverly,

it's me, Ted Bundy.  It's late at night six days

before my execution and it's lonely here on death

row...".  DAD lunges for machine to push OFF button

and accidentally turns on the radio.

DAD slams down OFF button on radio and sobs in

shock.

CHIP1 on duty as manager, along with BIRDIE and

SCOTTY and a few other horror-nut customers watch on

large video monitor Joan Crawford get off a train in

William Castle's "Straight Jacket".  The suspense

builds as Joan on video spies through a window at

her husband with another woman, picks up an ax and

cuts off his head.  Suddenly MISTY runs into video

shop in hysterics.

All the kids laugh uproarously as Joan screams on

video "I'm not guilty" while struggling in a

straight jacket.

MOM comes through kitchen door and serves a fancy

tuna casserole.

Subtitle appears "6:01pm" and then fades out.

MISTY looks at her mother in terror.  DAD treats MOM

with kid gloves.  CHIP is completely oblivious to

their concern.

MISTY pales, DAD looks at MOM in fear.

DET. MOORE and several other COPS are taking down

every word MRS. ACKERMAN says in notebooks and on

tape recorders.

DET. BRADFORD and several other POLICE OFFICERS are

taking her statement and trying to calm her down,

A huge galute of a POLICEWOMAN sits next to DOTTIE

and pats her hand.

The family is eating in uneasy silence.

MISTY chokes on her food, DAD laughs unconvincingly.

The whole family sits in awkward silence.

ROOKIE COP sits in cop car on surveillance duty

watching the Sutphin house in eery silence.

Family is squirming in their seats in nervous

silence.  MISTY suddenly bolts from table and runs

towards kitchen.

MISTY runs in.  No one is there.  On blackboard,

written in chalk is "WENT TO THE 7-il, MOM".

CHIP and DAD rush in.

MOM peels out in her station wagon like a bat out of

hell.

ROOKIE COP looks up in shock, clumsily throws the

car in gear and takes off behind her.  Subtitle

appears "6:36pm" and then fades out.

MOM is driving like a lunatic,  She sees the red

light of pursuing police car in rear-view mirror and

floors it as she hits play button of tape deck in

car and begins singing along loudly and scarily to

her favorite song, Barry Manilow's "Daybreak",

ROOKIE COP is sweating bullets speeding after MOM's

car and grabs police radio.

MOM is "dancing" in place and gyrating to the beat

as she belts out the finale of "Daybreak" and

suddenly turns the steering wheel violently to the

right.

MOM's car veers across lawn and flattens Mrs.

Hinkle's entire flower garden as she plows her way

back to street.

DET. BRADFORD comes running out of house and jumps

out of way as ROOKIE COP's car skids around corner

and smashes into Mrs. Ackerman's wishing well

decoration in her front yard.

DOTTIE HINKLE is held back by burly POLICEWOMAN on

porch as she curses MOM in the distance.

DAD is at the wheel driving with MISTY in front and

CHIP in the back.

MOM turns off tape player and pulls to a stop on a

quiet suburban street.  She fixes her hair in rear

view mirror, smiles, then takes out rubber

dish-washing gloves and slips them on her hands.

SCOTTY lies in bed, surrounded by vintage

sexploitation movie posters that decorate his walls

("Garden of Eden", "Mud-Honey", "There She Blows"),

and watches on video the ridiculous 70's trash film

"Double-Agent '73" starring Chesty Morgan.

In the credit sequence he sees Miss Morgan

"photographing" men with her humongous breasts that

supposedly have cameras implanted inside.  SCOTTY is

getting turned on.  He runs to lock bedroom door,

closes curtain on window and then hops under a

blanket to commit the sin of self-abuse.

DAD, MISTY and CHIP pull up, run to front door and

pound on it.

DETECTIVE MOORE pulls up at a safe distance behind

them and watches from police car.  Subtitle appears

"7:01pm" and disappears.

SCOTTY is watching Chesty Morgan on video roll about

in hideous hot pants and insane 1970's platform

shoes as he concentrates on her gigantic breasts and

touches himself off camera.  He hears banging at

door, curses whoever it is, and decides to ignore

them.

DAD jiggles the door unsuccessfully until CHIP

slithers through an open window and lets MISTY and

DAD inside.

Heroic music blares on soundtrack as he leaps from

car and pulls gun.  Subtitle appears "7:24pm" and

then fades out.

from outside a suburban house.

Reverse angle shows not Scotty, but the dental

emergency couple, THE STERNERS, as they sit in their

dining room eating a dinner of cornish game hens.

MOM zeros in on the game hens and flashes back to

"Dede" and the other cute birds in her bird-feeder

at home.

As the couple viciously slice apart the game hens

and stuff the meat in their mouths, MOM breaks a

small pane of glass in back door to gain entry.

They both laugh uproarously at her bad joke.

MOM is listening in disgust, notices a limp plant,

waters it thoughtfully and then jumps out of the way

to hide as MRS. STERNER comes into kitchen to get a

large chocolate pie.

SCOTTY has the whole bed vibrating noisily as he

watches Chesty Morgan on video in hideous green

plaid bell bottoms as she "photographs" evidence

with her breasts.

DAD, MISTY and CHIP creep up the steps towards

SCOTTY's bedroom.

DET. BRADFORD signals the newly arrived DET. MOORE

and a small swat team in battle gear to follow him

quietly to Scotty's front door.

MR. STERNER cuts himself a second piece of chocolate

pie and pigs it down.

As MRS. STERNER continues to watch TV we see her get

ready for bed.

We see her change from her shoes to bedroom slippers

from under the bed.

We see her brush her hair from behind the mirror.

We see her open her drawer and take out

birth-control foam from inside the bureau.

We see her go to closed curtains moving ominously in

the breeze and close the window from the other side.

MRS. STERNER takes off her dress to reveal monstrous

white all-in-one bra and girdle and moves to closet

door.

She opens closet door and hesitates.

We see shoe in bottom of closet move slightly.

Suddenly a mouse scurries out of shoe and runs

across floor as MRS. STERNER screams,

MRS. STERNER reaches for nightgown and pulls it off

hanger to reveal MOM's insane face.  Suddenly MOM

stabs MRS. STERNER viciously in the stomach with

MRS. ACKERMAN's scissors.

MRS. STERNER opens her mouth in a silent scream as

MOM pulls out the scissors and stabs her again and

again as a large rat in the closet runs out and

begins biting MRS. STERNER's ankle at the same time.

MR. STERNER burps in front of empty plate and hears

loud thud from upstairs.  He gets up from table.

MRS. STERNER is dead on the floor with scissors

sticking out of her as MOM attempts to clean up the

blood with the household product, "SHOUT".

MR. STERNER runs up stairs, suddenly alarmed.

MOM looks up from cleaning and smiles as MR. STERNER

runs in, sees the grisly sight and screams in

horror.

MOM suddenly pulls scissors out of MRS. STERNER's

stomach and expertly throws them like a knife at MR.

STERNER's head.  He ducks in the nick of time and

the scissors stick in the wall.

MR. STERNER turns and runs in fear as MOM gives

chase, grabbing the scissors out of the wall.

MR. STERNER runs down the steps screaming as MOM

runs after him.  She throws the scissors at him

again, but just misses him.

Thinking fast, MR. STERNER grabs scissors from wall

and throws them back at MOM.  She ducks in the nick

of time and her face goes purple with rage.

As MR. STERNER runs to back door, MOM charges back

up the steps to bedroom.

MOM rushes in and watches MR. STERNER from above

from bedroom window as he runs out of house.

MR. STERNER runs across lawn screaming.

MOM is rocking air conditioner in window back and

forth until she gets it loose.  Seeing him right

below, MOM shoves it out window with all her might.

MR. STERNER looks up at air conditioner falling from

above and screams the second before he is crushed

like an insect.

SCOTTY is moaning in orgasm as he watches ludicrous

Chesty Morgan "Secret Agent" breast footage on video

screen.

DAD, MISTY and CHIP look at one another in horror

thinking SCOTTY's moans are cries of pain and they

break down his door to save him.

SCOTTY stares in complete mortification as the

Sutphin family catch him in the middle of an orgasm.

When DETECTIVES MOORE and BRADFORD and their

ridiculously overprepared SWAT TEAM flood the

bedroom, screaming "FREEZE" and "HANDS OVER YOUR

HEAD", SCOTTY fumes in anger as MISTY and CHIP

giggle in relief and DAD turns red in embarrassment.

DAD's car pulls up and the relieved Sutphin family

hops out and runs to house.  Subtitle appears

"9:02pm" and fades out.

MOM is seated happily at table.  DAD, MISTY and CHIP

enter.

Fade to black.

Sign out front announces the service: "11:00am.

Holy Eucharist Service.  Sermon: 'Capitol Punishment

and You'".  Families stream into church.  Subtitle

appears "10:37am, Sunday September 20th" and fades

out.

MOM, DAD, CHIP and MISTY walk out front door dressed

in their Sunday finest.  Suddenly their wholesome

smiles freeze on their faces.

Cop cars are everywhere watching MOM's every move.

DETECTIVES MOORE and BRADFORD smile hatefully at

MOM, pressuring her with their high-visibility

surveillance.

The family nervously gets in their car and DAD turns

the ignition.

Cop after cop after cop start up their engines.

As DAD pulls out of the driveway in his car the cops

file into a procession of intimidation behind him.

He turns on radio to music.

MISTY, CHIP and DAD listen in appalled silence to

news report on radio as MOM seems unfazed.

DAD looks at MOM in stunned disbelief.

Sutphin car pulls to a stop at a red light next to

car full of churchgoers.  MOM turns to smile at them

and all the churchgoers scream in horror at the

sight of her face.

MRS. ACKERMAN and MRS. HINKLE look up in amazement

as they see the Sutphins pull into church parking

lot followed by string of police cars.

The Sutphins nervously get out of car and walk

towards church as the good Christian families glare

at them and gossip with a vengeance.

DAD tries to be brave, MISTY hangs her head in

mortification, CHIP is excited by all the attention

and MOM smiles happily to appalled worshippers.

GUS and SLOPPY, the two garbagemen, dressed in their

shabby church clothes wave to MOM in secret

admiration.

BIRDIE's eyes light up at seeing CHIP but her

suddenly forbidding parents hold her back when she

tries to join him.  She mouths "I love you" to him

as CHIP looks back to her parents with hurt and

confusion.

As the SUTPHIN family reaches the church door, a

reporter runs towards them with his cameras drawn.

MISTY, who can't help but notice that the REPORTER

is strikingly handsome, gives him an obviously

flirtatious smile before DAD yanks her into church

with the rest of them.

FATHER STONE, a mild and kind looking Episcopal

priest has just begun the service.

The SUTPHINS take their place in a half filled pew

next to appalled young MARRIED COUPLE as a still

mortified SCOTTY glares in hatred and vengeance from

a pew in the back of the church.

BIRDIE's face is covered in tears as she sits with

her parents helplessly.

MISTY turns in her seat and searches the hostile

crowd for the face of the cute REPORTER.  When she

spots him secretly snapping her photo, she subtly

gives him a sexy pose.

DETECTIVES MOORE and BRADFORD wait with other COPS

outside their cars as voice comes over police radio.

COPS smile in silent victory as they immediately

spread out and approach the church.

FATHER STONE is giving the sermon in a kindly tone.

MRS. ACKERMAN and MRS. HINKLE nod in pious

agreement.

DAD gulps and lovingly takes MOM's hand as MISTY and

CHIP look at one another appalled while MOM

continues her defiant smile.

DETECTIVES MOORE and BRADFORD and all the COPS begin

infiltrating the church, taking places in pews and

then moving forward to other pews closer to MOM.

SCOTTY beams at police presence and eagerly scoots

over to let DET. BRADFORD and DET. MOORE sit with

him on their way to nail MOM.

GUS and SLOPPY, the garbagemen, scowl at the police

and look with loyalty to poor MOM.

As CONGREGATION prays along with FATHER STONE, COPS

flood the church and move towards MOM.

A BABY in the arms of a MOTHER in pew in front of

MOM stares back at MOM.

MOM sneezes and a hunk of phlegm flies out and hits

BABY square in face.

BABY'S MOTHER screams in horror at seeing her BABY's

face and the entire congregation1 thinking she's

been attacked by MOM, dives to the floor in terror.

COPS draw guns and leap over pews as complete

pandemonium breaks out in church.

Just as DET. MOORE and DET. BRADFORD are about to

grab MOM, GUS and SLOPPY punch the COPS in the mouth

and MOM runs off.

DAD looks for MOM in a panic and realizes she has

vanished.

CHIP cringes in fear as hordes of COPS surround his

family until he is relieved to see that MOM has

escaped.

MISTY gives "dramatic" poses of "fear" and "horror"

as cute REPORTER snaps her picture excitedly.

BIRDIE escapes her parents, runs to CHIP, embraces

him and together they take off.

FATHER STONE stares out from altar in shock as

worshippers scream and trample each other trying to

get out of church as police try to restore order.

SCOTTY, trying to be macho, fights his way towards

front of church and for a split-second sees CHIP,

BIRDIE and MOM running out back door of sacristy in

escape.

MOM blows a quick kiss to GUS and SLOPPY who beam in

happiness at helping her escape.

CHIP and BIRDIE are "hot-wiring" SCOTTY's car as MOM

lies hidden out of view on back seat of car.

The car engine starts up.

CHIP peels out.

REPORTER has chased DAD and MISTY to their car,

still taking pictures as COPS flood the area looking

for MOM.

CHIP and BIRDIE hurry MOM from car and run to door

of shop as CHIP fumbles for his keys to open up.

CHIP and BIRDIE hustle MOM into the shop and lead

her to the "Gore" section and open a door covered

with violent video display boxes to reveal a small

closet.

CUSTOMER begins banging on door.

CHIP closes door behind her and then inserts

cassette into VCR and pushes "Play" button.  On

video in shop we see "Leatherface" in "The Texas

Chainsaw Massacre" jump out from behind a bush and

hack up a male victim.

BIRDIE lets in the first customer of the day, a

middle aged battle-ax, MRS. JENSON.

MOM's face turns to stone in closet.

MRS. JENSON stomps to door and slams it behind her

as MOM's face twists in rage as she listens.

BIRDIE runs to back of shop and sees opened door to

street.

BIRDIE runs to files and starts going through them.

CHIP and BIRDIE exit in a panic and run up the

street.

Hidden behind his "borrowed" car across the street

is SCOTTY who has been watching them all along.  He

takes off on foot after them.

A carving knife slices through leg-of-lamb on

kitchen table.  Camera pans up to MRS. JENSON's

happy face as she fixes herself a leg-of-lamb

sandwich and exits to living room.

MRS. JENSON kicks off her shoes, excitedly pops

videocassette into her VCR and climbs into her

recliner for a relaxing afternoon of video

pleasures.  She takes a big bite out of her

sandwich, twangs the remote to start the video and

smiles excitedly at hearing the overture to

"Tomorrow" begin over the credit sequence to

"Annie", her favorite musical.  Subtitle appears

"12:09pm" and fades out.

The door handle jiggles ominously.

A large DOG rises up next to MRS. JENSON.

MOM looks over her shoulder to make sure no one is

watching and then slowly lets herself in kitchen

door.  Her eyes immediately go to gleaming butcher

knife on table.

The DOG growls.

DOG growls and heads toward kitchen.

CHIP and BIRDIE stand outside looking up at house in

fear.

They sneak to side of house.

Cut to SCOTTY watching them from a distance.

MOM is down on floor with mean DOG getting him to

roll over and "beg" for her with gusto as "Annie"

soundtrack blares from living room.

MRS. JENSON is bellowing out the lyrics to

"Tomorrow" along with the soundtrack.

MOM grabs butcher knife.

CHIP and BIRDIE are below window to her TV room.

CHIP gives BIRDIE a leg-up so she can see inside.

BIRDIE'S POV shot of MRS. JENSON singing along.

SCOTTY has climbed up and has a direct view over

CHIP and BIRDIE into MRS. JENSON'S window.

Hand held camera follows MOM clutching knife out of

the kitchen into living room as she sneaks up on a

singing MRS. JENSON.

SCOTTY looks horrified to see a figure sneaking up

on MRS. JENSON through window.

MOM changes her mind, puts down knife and goes back

into kitchen.

SCOTTY sighs in relief.

BIRDIE gives CHIP a leg-up and he gets a glimpse of

the singing MRS. JENSON building to the finale of

"Tomorrow".

MOM picks up entire leg-of-lamb by the bone as her

eyes light up in homicidal glee.  She leans down,

kisses the DOG on the lips, and exits back to living

room.

MRS. JENSON is practically leaping our of her

recliner singing along with the finale to "Tomorrow"

on the credits to "Annie" as MOM creeps up behind

her with leg-of-lamb.

MOM bludgeons MRS. JENSON with the leg-of-lamb on

the final note of the song.

Blood splatters the happy scene on the TV screen.

MRS. JENSON tries to struggle up from the floor but

MOM hits her over the head again with leg-of-lamb

and finishes her off.

MOM zaps the off button and softly sings to herself

in the sudden silence.

MOM bludgeons her one more time and then pushes the

REWIND button in revenge.

SCOTTY lets out a terror-filled scream.

MOM looks out window in search of scream and zooms

right in on SCOTTY's horrified face.

CHIP and BIRDIE look at each other in panic after

hearing SCOTTY scream and seeing him run away behind

them.

The DOG is devouring the leg-of-lamb on the floor.

MOM grabs butcher knife, and takes off after SCOTTY.

CHIP is giving BIRDIE a frantic leg-up.

BIRDIE POV shot of MRS. JENSON's battered corpse.

The DOG lunges at BIRDIE in window.

BIRDIE screams in horror and falls to the ground.

CHIP grabs her arm and they run.

MOM comes running out front, sees SCOTTY running in

the other direction and charges after him like a bat

out of hell.

SCOTTY runs, looking over his shoulder, horrified to

see MOM chasing him with a butcher knife.

BIRDIE and CHIP run in fear across suburban back

lawns.

BIRDIE vomits into the hot coals of somebody's

outside cooking grill as horrified HOUSEWIFE looks

out her window at her, about to begin cookout and

screams in revulsion.

CHIP grabs BIRDIE and they run away.

SCOTTY's convertible awaits him as he races towards

it with MOM gaining on him with every stride.

SCOTTY lunges for door handle, fumbles with key and

hops in just in time.

MOM plunges butcher knife through convertible top as

he puts key in ignition.

SCOTTY starts engine as he ducks the repeated knife

jabs through his convertible top.

SCOTTY peels out, showering MOM with gravel.

A van pulls to a stop.  Inside are two BURGLARS;

one white, the other black.  They are surrounded by

obvious loot: VCR's, cameras and silverware.

MOM turns to them with knife.

MOM yanks open van door and points knife inside.

SCOTTY is speeding along, relieved to get away.

MOM switches gears like Evil Knieval and skids

around corner in hot pursuit.

SCOTTY checks rearview mirror and sees a van

speeding up behind him.

CHIP and BIRDIE are running down street.

DAD and MISTY are driving in other direction looking

for MOM.  Seeing CHIP and BIRDIE, DAD screeches on

the brakes and the kids run to car in relief and

jump in.

Suddenly SCOTTY roars by in his car with MOM in hot

pursuit.  She sees DAD and family and blows them a

lunatic kiss.

DAD takes off after MOM in car.

A COP sees the speeding caravan as it careens around

a corner.

Large signs announce "SUNDAY ROCK-A-THON.  IN PERSON

- 'CAMEL LIPS'"

SCOTTY careens into parking lot in his convertible.

Subtitle appears "2:47pm" and fades out.

On stage, "CAMEL LIPS", an all-female

grunge-punk-metal band, dressed in their trademark

skin tight slacks that gave the group their name,

perform their hit song "Gas Chamber".  The monstrous

but beautiful LEAD SINGER bellows and snarls the

lyrics as the DRUMMER, a brain dead drug idiot, hits

herself on head with drumstick in between beats as

criminal looking biker-chick GUITARIST plays her

instrument and mock-humps it with sexual abandon.

The audience of on-the-edge kids goes bezerk,

guzzling beer and slam dancing with frightening

intensity

MOM speeds into parking lot.

SCOTTY is looking over his shoulder in fear as he

nears the entrance waiting in line with grunge-metal

kids.

SCOTTY fumbles for his wallet.

MOM is hurrying across parking lot staring at SCOTTY

with a vengeance.

DAD and the kids speed into parking lot and jump out

of car.

SCOTTY snatches back I.D. and rushes inside.

As horde of cop cars with lights blinking and sirens

blaring screech into parking lot, MOM pushes her way

up in line and greets startled kids who recognize

her.

A parents' nightmare.  Grunge-punk hell.  "CAMEL

LIPS" is undulating suggestively on stage screeching

out the chorus of "Gas Chamber" as they mock gasp

for breath, dodge beer bottles thrown from audience

and punch out male groupies who rush the stage past

brutish bouncers.

SCOTTY pushes his way through slam dancing crowd as

he is picked up and bodily tossed through the air by

frenzied mob of "body-surfing" dancers.

MOM is racing to catch up with SCOTTY.

DAD looks horrified as he politely maneuvers his way

through crowd as CHIP, MISTY and BIRDIE take over

and begin "slamming" their way through crowd opening

up a crowd for DAD.

The COPS flood the place.  DET. MOORE sees MOM in

the distance, grabs DET. BRADFORD and they begin to

fight their way through crowd after her.

"CAMEL LIPS" incites the crowd from the stage to

fight back against the police.

SCOTTY is running toward stage in terror, looking

over his shoulder and seeing MOM gaining on him.

DAD gets caught in a mob of slam dancers and is

lifted off his feet and tossed through the air by

the crowd.

MISTY, CHIP and BIRDIE see DAD airborne and start

slamming into the crowd to save him.  MISTY and CHIP

slam into big BIKER below DAD and DAD is knocked

back to the ground safely.

When BIRDIE sees a slam dancer with a trickle of

blood running from his nose, she starts gagging at

the sight of real blood.

SCOTTY is at the edge of the stage.  He sees MOM

almost on top of him and leaps onto stage and runs

for his life, dodging bouncers and beer bottles

being thrown from audience.

MOM looks furious that SCOTTY has escaped but then

looks up at theatrical light rigging overhead and

then back down at SCOTTY's face as "CAMEL LIPS"

tries to hit him with their instruments.  MOM looks

over her shoulder and sees DET. MOORE and DET.

BRADFORD advancing on her.  Ducking behind a giant

speaker, out of view of the crowd MOM pulls butcher

knife from purse, cuts supporting rope and sends

whole set of lights crashing down on SCOTTY's head.

The crowd goes wild thinking it's more of "CAMEL

LIPS" sickening theatrics.

A gang of heavy-metal chicks slam into DET. MOORE

and DET. BRADFORD and knock them to the ground.

MOM's eyes light up in fury when she sees SCOTTY

still alive, crawling out from under the lights,

semi-conscious and bleeding.

BIRDIE faints at the sight of more blood.

Thinking fast, MOM swipes a hairspray can sticking

out of a girl's purse and uses her VIP pass to go

backstage as CAMEL LIPS reaches its deafening

crescendo of musical mayhem.

As SCOTTY crawls to side of stage, MOM jumps out

from a piece of backstage scenery and aims hairspray

can at him.

MOM lights the spray from the hairspray can and

ignites SCOTTY's clothes in lethal flames without

anyone seeing her.

SCOTTY runs across the stage ablaze as "CAMEL LIPS"

plays the final deafening note of their song and the

crowd gives a screaming ovation, all holding up lit

lighters, thinking SCOTTY on fire is all part of the

act.

DET. MOORE and DET. BRADFORD look to the stage in

horror.

DAD gasps in fear.  MISTY and CHIP stare speechless

as SCOTTY falls to his knees and keels over.  BIRDIE

comes to and then faints again.

The LEAD SINGER thinks it's a joke, pours a little

Jack Daniels on the smouldering corpse and then

jumps back in comic over-reaction when the flames

light up again.

MOM, now caught in the front row of laughing

slam-dancing spectators, turns to her dumb-struck

family, smiles and sticks fingers in her ears,

mimicking that the music is much too loud.

DET. MOORE and DET. BRADFORD slamdance MOM from both

sides and knock her to the ground and handcuff her.

DAD puts his arms around CHIP, MISTY and BIRDIE as

they hang their heads in sorrow.

"CAMEL LIPS" and the entire audience of grunge-punks

boo and jeer the police as they drag MOM out as she

smiles innocently in suburban lunacy.

Slow fade to black.

WINTER.

DAD, CHIP, BIRDIE, MISSY and her new boyfriend, the

REPORTER get out of folksy lawyer, HERBIE HEBDEN'S

car and follow him through crowd of hostile press-

trial groupies, and MOM1s punk-grunge fans, feeling

the full heat of MOM's serial killer infamy.  DAD

wears a "Say No to the Gas Chamber" button and

BIRDIE has turned hippy, wearing tie-dye clothes

covered in peace signs.  CHIP, on the other hand,

looks cooler, wears L.A. styled outfit and carries

copy of Variety.  MISTY is obviously very much in

love and the REPORTER seems to feel the same way

about her.  Subtitle appears "Four months later,

Monday, January 18th, 9:46am" and then fades out.

Female criminals are handcuffed and seated around

MOM on their way to court as MOM leads them in a

joyous and Disney-esoue rendition of "100 Bottles of

Beer on the Wall".  MOM sings out with insane

happiness and glee.

A "COURT TV" reporter is interviewing trial groupies

as they wait in line to go through metal detectors

to attend MOM's trial.

The hostile crowd starts craning their necks and

screaming in recognition as if rock stars are making

their entrance.  DAD is blinded by the press's

flashbulbs as HERBIE HEBDEN tries to stop CHIP from

signing autographs as BIRDIE hands out "Stop the

Violence" handbills.  REPORTER BOYFRIEND gives MISTY

the signal and she starts crying for his exclusive

news shots.

Packed with spectators, press and security officers.

The middle-class jury of seven woman and five men

take their place in the jury box as Sutphin family

take their seats in front row behind HERBIE HEBDEN

at his defense table.

TIMOTHY NAZLEROD, the prosecutor, studies evidence

photos of victim's bodies at the District Attorney's

table on other side of the courtroom.  He looks up

in disgust as MOM makes her apple-pie entrance.

Escorted by two stern-faced police matrons.

Subtitle appears "10:00am" and fades out.

DAD smiles back pitifully.

They give her a weak smile and nod "Yes".

SPECTATORS scowl hatefully at MOM.

BIRDIE pales over the mere thought of violence.

He looks over and sees MISTY and REPORTER BOYFRIEND

are holding hands and glares at them to stop.

MOM subtly motions to MALE JUROR that he has

something in his nose.

JUROR self-consciously feels around his nostrils in

embarrassment.

MOM signals to JUROR that the problem is still

there.

JUROR blows his nose.  MOM smiles happily to him

that the problem is solved.

MISTY and REPORTER are watching and move even closer

together to snuggle.

MOM's smile turns to horror as JUROR #8 on end of

second row crosses her legs and MOM zeros in on her

hideous white summer shoes.

Wipe to a disheveled HERBIE HEBDEN, the ultimate

liberal defense attorney, as he paces back and forth

before JURY wiping his brow.

MOM is still staring insanely at JUROR1s shoes.

MOM is frantically scribbling a note to her attorney

on a legal pad.

DAD self-consciously smiles to JURORS.

CHIP smiles to MOM's few heavymetal supporters as

REPORTER BOYFRIEND puts his arm around MISTY.

He is trying to ignore MOM as she passes him a note

that says "Juror #8 is wearing white summer shoes!"

MOM writes angrily "

Courtroom spectators gasp as DAD's mouth falls open.

Sutphin family looks at one another, shocked at

MOM's change of plans.

MOM smiles at DAD who looks bewildered as CHIP,

MISTY and REPORTER BOYFRIEND give MOM the thumbs-up

sign as BIRDIE nervously flashes her the peace sign.

DAD looks worried and unsure.

Courtroom and press buzz intently at MOM's new plea.

A vindictive and hostile, DOTTIE HINKLE enters the

courtroom and eagerly takes the stand.  As she is

sworn in, MOM watches her with an evil smile.

Wipe to MOM approaching DOTTIE HINKLE for

cross-examination.

MISTY, CHIP and BIRDIE smile at MOM's legal skills.

Press scribbles frantically, beginning to doubt

witness's credibility.

MOM quickly and sneakily mouths "FUCK YOU" to DOTTIE

without the JUDGE or anyone else in the courtroom

besides DOTTIE seeing.

DAD watches, amazed at his wife's cunning.

Police matrons lunge at DOTTIE as she leaps from

witness box to attack MOM.

MOM smiles at JURY and turns to wink at her amazed

family as spectators watch, willing to give MOM, for

the first time, the benefit of the doubt.

Fade out.

CHIP is pacing up and down yelling into a mobile

phone outside MOM's trial as long line of spectators

wait to get in.  Subtitle appears "Tuesday, January

19th, 10:05am" and then fades out.

A YOUNG MAN angrily approaches CHIP.

He punches CHIP in the mouth.

LU-ANN HODGES, pot-head witness from PTA murder is

on the stand testifying for the prosecution.

MOM stares in shock at JUROR #8 who has the nerve to

give MOM a friendly smile back while wearing yet

another hideous pair of white summer shoes.  Trying

to suppress her rage, MOM turns to spectator section

and happily notices the faces of GUS and SLOPPY

smiling back to her in support.

DAD looks up at the unconvincing witness from

reading "The Case Against Capital Punishment".

MISTY has set up a flea market table and with the

help of her REPORTER BOYFRIEND, is doing a brisk

business hawking "Serial Mom" T-shirts to trial

spectators.

DET. BRADFORD is on the witness stand.

MOM takes over and smiles in conspiracy at GUS and

SLOPPY who giggle in excitement about what is to

come.

The entire courtroom bursts into laughter except for

his partner, DET. MOORE, who looks at him in shock.

GUS and SLOPPY laugh the loudest.

MOM winks to SLOPPY and GUS.

BAILIFFS forcefully remove him from the stand.

Wipe to MRS. ACKERMAN on the stand holding the fire

poker murder weapon tagged as evidence.

Spectators buzz.

GUS, SLOPPY and all the spectators let out a howl of

disapproval.  Even the JUDGE scowls at the witness

in disgust.

REPORTER BOYFRIEND is unpacking stack of the

"instant" book he wrote "Serial Mom - The Real

Story" and autographing them for a line of

housewives.

All the HOUSEWIVES in line begin booing and jeering

MRS. ACKERMAN as she runs in terror from courthouse

with GUS and SLOPPY chasing after her.

DET. MOORE is on witness stand being examined by the

prosecution.

BIRDIE looks up from reading "Ghandi" biography and

gags as prosecutor hands DET. MOORE a gory 8x10

glossy photo of victim.

Suddenly a buzz starts in the courtroom and all

heads turn to the back of the spectator section

where the real life star, FARRAH FAWCETT* is

entering with an entourage to "observe" Serial Mom.

MOM acknowledges MS. FAWCETT with a dignified nod as

DAD looks on in amazement.

DET. MOORE, the JURY, even the JUDGE crane their

necks to get a better look at FARRAH FAWCETT.

MOM looks back in sudden fear at the prospect of

this mystery witness.

MARVIN PICKLES, the pervert from the flea market

bathroom has locked himself in a stall and is

scrawling "I SNIFF JURIES' UNDERPANTS" on wall.

A POLICE OFFICER enters men's room, frantically

banging on bathroom doors.

MARVIN PICKLES hurriedly enters as all heads turn to

follow him to the stand.  CHIP, who has joined

BIRDIE and his family looks at MOM and sees her

worried expression.

FARRAH FAWCETT answers a ringing mobile phone in her

purse.

MARVIN sinks down lower in witness chair so he can

get a better view up MOM's skirt.

MOM looks at him confused, still unaware of his

letchery.

MOM suddenly realizes MARVIN is looking up her

skirt.  In a brilliant legal maneuver she begins

inching her skirt up a little higher under the table

out of view of the rest of the courtroom, giving

MARVIN a better view and hoping to change his

damning testimony.

Housewife trial groupies start buzzing wildly in

newfound support of MOM.

MOM smiles like the perfect saint as she begins

flapping her leqe back and forth under the table,

flashing MARVIN her very prim nun-like undergarments

out of view of the rest of the courtroom.

DAD looks over at MISTY and REPORTER BOYFRIEND who

have rejoined the family in court and is horrified

to see them with their arms wrapped around each

other, cuddling.

MOM is flapping her legs back and forth double time

as MARVIN goes into his own private orgasm.

The spectators burst into spontaneous applause as

DAD looks at the kids in fear at the upcoming

verdict.

FARRAM FAWCETT is giving an impromptu press

conference to the throng of adoring reporters.

TIMOTHY NAZLEROD is giving the prosecution's closing

argument.

FARRAH FAWCETT is still pontificating for the press.

DAD wipes away a tear as CHIP looks at a preliminary

design for mini-series showing FARRAH FAWCETT done

up as MOM.

MISTY and REPORTER BOYFRIEND are now openly making

out in courtroom.

BIRDIE looks out of courtroom window and sees a bird

eating a worm and shudders in horror as CHIP pats

her hand affectionately.

FARRAH FAWCETT is "reenacting" MOM's closing

argument for the enthralled press corp.

Dissolve to stern-faced JURORS filing back into jury

box, not looking at MOM.  Subtitle appears "Two days

later.  Thursday, January 21st.  3:20pm" and then

fades out.

JUROR #8 gives MOM a smile.

Courtroom erupts in pandemonium, FARRAH FAWCETT

cheering the loudest.  MOM turns to family who sit

stunned in seats.

DAD forces a weak smile as he turns white as a

ghost.

MOM rushes over to DAD, free at last and gives him a

big hug as press, fans, even the jury cheer her

victory.

The stunned Sutphin family exits as MOM raises fists

like "Rocky" to cheers of her supporters.

Down the hall, inside a bank of old fashioned wooden

phone booths is JUROR #8, excitedly talking on pay

phone.

Without warning, MOM slams her way into phone booth,

hangs up the call and grabs receiver out of JUROR

#8's hand.

MOM suddenly bludgeons JUROR #8 over the head with

the telephone receiver.

JUROR #8, stunned by the blow, struggles to stay

conscious.

MOM imediately hits JUROR #8 over the head again

with the telephone receiver.

As JUROR #8's screams are drowned out by the passing

PRESS MOB, MOM hits her again and again with the

telephone receiver until JUROR #8 collapses to the

ground, her white summer shoes turned red with her

own blood.

Cut back to Sutphin family, holding on to each other

for dear life as the mob of supporters swell around

them.

MOM flies out of phone booth wearing a big smile,

not missing a beat.

FARRAH FAWCETT barges in and takes over.

Flashbulbs explode.

A JUROR down the hall screams in horror as she opens

phone booth door and a bloody white shoe pops out.

FARRAH FAWCETT looks back at MOM in sudden fear.

MOM glares back with the face of a madwoman.

Freeze frame.

Dissolve to epilogue title card:  "Beverly Sutphin

is a free woman."

CREDIT ROLL.

