She finishes one of the crusts with a flourish as the music

ends.

Todd, meanwhile, is gulping at his ale, trying to wash down

Mrs. Lovett's hideous creation.

She leads him through the curtains at the back of the pie

shop and into...

... Her parlor is a wonder of seedy faux-middle class

Victoriana. Little knickknacks, dusty plants and dingy

doilies. There is a threadbare mauve sofa in front of a

comfortable fire.

A faded picture postcard of the seaside hangs on a wall.

She goes to a sideboard and pours him a huge glass of gin as:

She hands him the gin. He gulps it down, washing the taste of

her pie out of his mouth.

He sits before the fire:

She glances up at the roof, considering the room over them.

She turns to him, something a little intense and probing

about her gaze.

She holds his gaze.

The flickering flame from the fire begins to cast a more

intense red glow on her face...

The music continues as she looks at him, again with that

rather intense gaze:

She turns again to the fire, the red glow bathing her face as

she remembers...

Lucy is pacing, holding Baby Johanna to her closely. Lucy is

distraught, strained, tears in her eyes.

As Lucy paces we notice the room is full of dead and dying

flowers: dozens of dried bouquets tossed aside and ignored.

Lucy moves to the window, looks out. She sees Judge Turpin

and the Beadle waiting below. The Judge holds yet another

bouquet.

Lucy moves away from the window, sobbing.

The Beadle is leading a nervous Lucy along an exclusive

street of dark stone mansions, grand but somehow menacing.

Lucy is wearing her best dress.

The Beadle ushers Lucy into a ballroom. She is shocked to see

a fancy-dress ball in progress.

Masked couples swirl around the ballroom, their number

sinisterly multiplied by the distorting mirrors that frame

the room. The hanging chandeliers, draped in red cloth, cast

a disquieting incarnadine glow on the proceedings...

Lucy wanders lost through the swirling dancers, they buffet

her, confusing her...

The Beadle finds Lucy again and graciously gives her his arm,

leading her through the party. She is thankful for the

salvation he provides. He brings her to Judge Turpin.

The Judge descends on Lucy, raping her. The other guests

crowd around ravenously, enjoying the spectacle. A feverish

nightmare.

Todd's wild howl shatters the memory and tears us back to--

--Todd is bolting up from the sofa, tormented--

He stands for a terrible beat.

Todd absorbs this sickening news.

A beat as he stares into the fire, madness and purpose

creeping in.

He continues with a chilling and quiet resolve as he stares

with unblinking eyes into the fire:

A beat. He finally turns to her.

They emerge from the pie shop. She begins to scale the

exterior staircase to the darkened second floor room. He

hesitates.

She continues up, he slowly follows.

A macabre shroud of dust and spider's webs. Furniture covered

in sheets. A broken mirror on one wall.

We hear footsteps approaching and then Mrs. Lovett enters.

The door creaks like a living thing.

She moves into the room. But Todd hesitates at the door,

looking into the room.

For him this is a truly haunted place.

Meanwhile, she kneels and pries loose a floorboard.

Underneath there is a hidden area. Within that, something

covered with a velvet cloth. She removes it and carefully

unwraps it. Her touch is particularly gentle and respectful.

We discover it is a fine leather case. She looks at it for a

beat. Then turns to him, dusting it off.

He finally steps into the room, drawn toward the case.

Haunting music begins as she opens the case...

And we see it contains a beautiful set of razors.

He stands for a long moment, gazing down at his beloved

razors.

Mrs. Lovett leans over him, in her own kind of trance as

well. They now sing simultaneously:

The music continues quietly as Todd stares at one of his

razors.

She goes. Todd finally picks up his biggest razor and slowly

opens it, looks at it.

And he remains standing. Exalted.

Then--

In the shattered mirror on the wall he suddenly sees--

The distorted reflections of the Gentleman, the Banker, and

the General, looking at him--

Todd turns to them...

Todd pulls a sheet off Baby Johanna's cradle. A cloud of dust

rises.

The ghosts disappear in the cloud of dust and Todd stands

alone, staring at the cradle, holding his razor.

Anthony, now out of his sailor's uniform, is walking along

the sidewalk near the Judge's mansion, absorbed in a copy of

Baedeker's London.

He stops, lost, trying to get his bearings, studying his map.

Then an unusual sound emerges through the normal cosmopolitan

bustle. It is the sound of a woman humming. He looks up to

see...

JOHANNA, a 16-year-old girl with golden hair, beautiful and

hauntingly sad. She sits at her window above, behind bars,

humming to herself as she does needlepoint.

Anthony watches her, absolutely mesmerized.

Johanna notices a Bird Seller passing. He carries a long,

wooden pole with little bird cages attached.

Then ... she sees Anthony on the sidewalk below.

Music continues. There is a long look between them. Her

intense, melancholy expression moves him.

She continues singing, the strange anguish and yearning of

her words seem intended only for him...

Then she turns away quickly, alarmed, when someone enters her

room. She looks terrified.

Below, Anthony is concerned for her. He sees her move from

the window.

He is craning to see better when a BEGGAR WOMAN -- a filthy

tendril of a woman, her foul clothes of rags like a second

skin -- suddenly thrusts her arm up from the curb, imploring:

She suddenly leers into a lewd and demented assault:

She grabs at Anthony's crotch -- Anthony starts back -- she

turns away, instantly plaintive again, and appeals to other

pedestrians as she goes:

Anthony considers the mansion. He sees a figure standing at a

window, unclear behind the shutters, watching him.

He sits on a bench outside the mansion and sings quietly:

Then the figure disappears from the window above. Anthony

stands, waits. Then the doors to the mansion swing open...

Anthony is expecting Johanna...

But it is Judge Turpin, the predator we met in Todd's

flashback, who steps into the doorway.

He seems a different man now. Paternal and warm, he smiles

and beckons to Anthony.

Anthony hesitates, unsure. The Judge beckons again. Again the

warm smile.

Anthony goes into the mansion.

Judge Turpin leads Anthony into the dark library, filled with

books. Anthony is looking around for Johanna. He is wary,

this is all very strange.

Anthony sits, uncomfortable, as the Judge pours two snifters

of brandy.

Then...

The large form of the Beadle appears from the shadows. No

introduction is made. Anthony glances to him, uneasy.

The Judge moves to consider some beautiful volumes, bound in

the richest leather. He runs a finger along the spines of the

books; his large library of pornography.

Anthony is speechless. The Judge just smiles at him amiably.

The Beadle moves behind Anthony.

Anthony is stunned. The Judge proceeds with shocking venom:

He nods to the Beadle -- the Beadle instantly grabs Anthony

and brutally hauls him out.

The Beadle drags Anthony through a rear door of the mansion

and flings him into a filthy alley.

Anthony pulls himself up. Stunned.

Flustered, Anthony turns to look--

The instant Anthony's back is turned, the Beadle swings his

lethal billyclub and SLAMS him from behind brutally, in the

kidneys -- Anthony's knees buckle--

The Beadle then SLAMS Anthony across the back of the neck --

Anthony falls hard--

The Beadle then uses one dainty foot to roll Anthony over--

Anthony gazes up at him, panting for breath, in agony--

He presses the end of his billyclub into Anthony's forehead,

grinding it hard--

With that, the Beadle returns to the mansion and slams the

door.

Anthony slowly pulls himself to his knees, doubled over,

coughing up blood.

A long beat as Anthony gets his breath, wiping blood from his

face.

Still doubled over, he sings with burning intensity:

He pulls himself up, every movement is agony. He makes his

way down the alley, leaning on the wall for support.

The music swells as Anthony emerges from the dark alley into

the bright sunlight. He makes his way along the sidewalk:

The soaring music continues as Anthony stops at a park across

the street from Turpin's mansion, bravely gazing up at

Johanna's window.

Sweeney Todd and Mrs. Lovett are moving quickly, she

struggles to keep up with his long, loping stride. He carries

his razor case, she carries a shopping basket.

They round a corner and move into the bustling marketplace. A

steady mercantile hum as the cries of merchants and wandering

coster-mongers fill the air.

Todd and Mrs. Lovett move toward a hand-drawn caravan

dominating one corner of the marketplace. It is painted like

a Sicilian donkey cart and on its side a sign declaims:

"Signor Adolfo Pirelli -- Haircutter to His Royal Majesty the

King of Naples."

He stops abruptly when he sees--

The Beadle casually strolling through the crowd. Todd is

transfixed, his ancient enemy so close.

Then, TOBY -- a 13-year-old boy, a bit small for his age,

malnourished and consumptively pale -- emerges from Pirelli's

caravan. He bangs on a tin drum, drawing customers.

A crowd begins to gather at the caravan as:

He dramatically doffs his cap, revealing mountains of hair

which cascade to his shoulder.

More customers are stepping up and buying bottles.

Todd opens a bottle of the Elixir, takes a whiff. Disgusting.

He smiles to Mrs. Lovett, his plan falling into place.

The crowd responds to Todd and Mrs. Lovett, looking askance

and sniffing at the bottles. Toby nervously tries to distract

them:

The music speeds up -- Toby is getting desperate:

Suddenly, the curtains on the caravan are dramatically flung

wide to reveal--

PIRELLI, a flamboyant Italian with a velvet suit, thick wavy

hair and a dazzling smile. Pirelli poses splendidly for a

moment. Then:

The crowd gasps. Pirelli is about to respond, outraged, but

Todd continues--

He snaps open his razor case and holds it up for the crowd to

see, turning to display the wondrous razors:

The crowd is enjoying this now, whispering eagerly about the

bold challenge. In the crowd, we see a quick flash of the

meek TOURIST we saw earlier.

Pirelli studies the razors for a moment and then turns to the

crowd with a confident smile:

Music begins as Todd moves into action, preparing the

challenge:

Two men step forward. A plain wooden chair is brought for

Todd as he moves into the boldest part of this plan...

He carefully turns to ... The Beadle.

Mrs. Lovett's eyes shoot to Todd, alarmed--

The Beadle moves toward Todd ....

Todd smiles amiably, but quivers internally at being so

dreadfully close to his prey...

Mrs. Lovett watches, concerned. Will the Beadle recognize the

features of Benjamin Barker...?

Apparently not.

The Beadle stops right before Todd and smiles.

One man sits in Todd's plain chair as the other moves to an

elaborate chair on Pirelli's caravan. Pirelli shakes out a

fancy bib with a flourish and covers his man. Toby prepares

Pirelli's ornate shaving supplies as Todd takes a plain towel

and tucks it around his man's neck.

He blows his shrill whistle. Agitated music begins.

Pirelli strops his razor quickly, Todd in a leisurely manner.

Pirelli keeps glancing at Todd in various paranoid ways

throughout, frightened of Todd's progress. He starts whipping

up lather rapidly:

Unexpectedly, Todd still shows no signs of starting to shave

his man. He merely watches Pirelli's performance. Mrs. Lovett

looks at him nervously, wishing he would get on with it.

Pirelli, now feeling he can take his time, sings lyrically as

he lathers and shaves with rhythmic scrapes and elaborate

gestures of wiping the razor.

Todd strops his razor slowly and deliberately -- shoop,

shoop, shoop -- disconcerting Pirelli and drawing the crowd's

attention.

Todd is unconcerned. He just continues to slowly strop his

razor -- shoop, shoop, shoop -- which flusters Pirelli.

While Pirelli holds this note elaborately, Todd, with a few

deft strokes, quickly lathers his man's face, shaves him and

signals the Beadle to examine him.

Pirelli deflates.

The crowd laughs and applauds Todd as Pirelli goes to him:

Pirelli produces a distinctive chatelaine purse and removes a

five pound note, gives it to Todd:

He bows his head quickly and then moves away, beckoning to

Toby:

Without warning, Pirelli SLAPS Toby viciously across the face

--Toby almost falls--

Mrs. Lovett has observed all of this as she moves away with

Todd, who is making his way inexorably toward the Beadle.

Some eager customers surround Todd, among them is the

TOURIST.

Mrs. Lovett is on him like a hawk:

Todd has led them right to the Beadle:

Todd and Mrs. Lovett are walking away from the marketplace.

She chatters happily:

She continues chattering...

But Todd is not listening.

His eyes dart to the side to see--

The Gentleman is walking next to him, whispering, subtle,

insinuating...

The Banker moves in next to the Gentleman...

The General joins them...

The last word echoes ... And then they are gone ...

disappearing from Todd's mind ... swallowed up by the crowd

of pedestrians...

Todd looks to Mrs. Lovett and she continues chattering:

But then his eyes dart again -- looking for the specters. He

only sees strangers.

Johanna sits, framed by the window, quietly cutting out

silhouettes. Aimless Victorian handicrafts.

But we see there are tears in her eyes.

She steals a glance across the room. We see a small hole in

the wallpaper. Through this hole, the Judge is watching her

from another chamber. Lascivious. Perverse.

Johanna finally stands and casually glances out from between

the shutters at her window. She sees...

Anthony, standing at the park across the street, keeping up

his lonely vigil, gazing up at the mansion.

She watches him for a moment and then makes her decision. She

moves to a table and opens a drawer. Reaches in and removes

something...

Anthony sees a figure at the shutters -- then hears a

clinking sound. Metal on pavement.

He quickly moves across the street and looks...

A key, dropped from above.

He looks up to the shutters and smiles, then snatches up the

key and hurries off.

Peering through the shutters, Johanna watches him go.

We linger on her face and then dissolve to another face, also

watching...

... Her father.

Todd's face, staring out the window, intense and brooding.

Seething with discontent.

Mrs. Lovett chatters as she moves around behind him:

He moves from the window and paces like a caged tiger in the

small barber shop.

Though it has been cleaned, it is still a spartan room. A

tatty parlor chair. A large chest. A few counters with meager

bottles of tonsorial supplies. And his gleaming razors,

always waiting.

Todd moves away from her, she pursues, trying to calm and

soothe him...

He does not respond. She dares to move closer...

Todd sourly tosses himself into the chair, he picks up his

largest razor and looks at it intensely:

Her gentle words have calmed him considerably. She moves even

closer. Risks touching him softly...

Then Todd tilts the razor in his hand--

SUDDENLY -- the face of the GENTLEMAN -- a flash -- reflected

in the razor--

Then--

A bell rings from outside the shop -- the effect is electric

-- Todd bolts up, senses alert -- Mrs. Lovett spins to the

door--

Todd holds his razor open as he moves strategically toward

the door--

We hear footsteps ascending the stairs outside quickly--

Then--

Anthony enters, breathless--

Todd and Mrs. Lovett exchange a quick glance as Anthony

continues:

He looks at Todd deeply:

Todd stares at him, his mind racing to figure out how this

new twist might aid in his plans.

It is Mrs. Lovett who smoothly replies:

A beat.

He goes.

Todd moves again to his post at the window, he stares out,

deep in thought.

Meanwhile, she happily moves around the shop, straightening

things up and trying to make it all a bit more cozy:

Mrs. Lovett joins him at the window. Below, they see Pirelli

approaching with Toby in tow.

She nods and scurries out. We go with her...

... Mrs. Lovett quickly moves down the steps outside the

barber shop to greet Pirelli and Toby as they are about to

ascend.

We see a new sign on the stairs: "Sweeney Todd's Tonsorial

Parlor."

Pirelli climbs the stairs, as she takes Toby by the hand and

leads him toward the pie shop door:

They go into the pie shop.

Todd is standing, arms folded. Waiting. Pirelli enters.

Todd shakes his head, amused, and begins to turn away when

Pirelli says:

Todd freezes.

Mrs. Lovett hands Toby one of her grisly pies, he devours

eagerly.

But her attention is almost entirely on the roof above ...

the muffled voices .... the sound of shoes walking...

Her eyes keep darting up as she chatters distractedly with

Toby:

Pirelli is expansively strolling around the shop, taking it

all in, savoring every second:

Todd glares at him.

Without a word of warning--

Like a thunderbolt--

Todd is on him.

He leaps across the shop and brutally grabs Pirelli by the

neck -- violently strangling him -- Pirelli is surprisingly

strong and puts up a desperate struggle -- they thump

awkwardly around the shop--

Mrs. Lovett hears the muffled sounds of the struggle above.

She nervously begins to shift and clang some things around as

she cleans the counter, trying to cover the sound,

chattering:

He bolts up, clearly terrified of Pirelli--

But he is gone--

Toby vaults up the stairs to the barber shop--

Todd is standing calmly when Toby bursts in--

He stops when he realizes Pirelli is nowhere to be seen.

He moves past Todd to the large chest and sits--

Only now do we see one of Pirelli's hands protruding from the

chest, dangling limply.

Toby doesn't notice it. Todd at this moment, however, does.

He smiles nervously.

Then Pirelli's hand ... twitches.

Toby doesn't notice. Todd does, stares at it anxiously.

Pirelli's hand begins to twitch more desperately now,

perilously close to where Toby's hand rests...

Pirelli's hand is twitching closer to Toby's now...

He races out happily and clatters down the stairs.

A beat as Todd gets his breath.

Then he goes to the trunk, leans down to open it, the camera

follows him down and up again, when he rises--

The GENTLEMAN is standing right behind him!

Todd turns.

The Gentleman's face is completely impassive. He is not

spectral. He does not disappear. He just stands there.

Todd looks at him.

Then the Gentleman's eyes slowly move to a counter...

Todd follows his look to see...

His largest razor.

A long beat as Todd looks at the razor.

The point of no return.

Todd strides to the razor and he snaps it open with a sharp,

quick flick of his wrist--

Then he moves to the chest and--

With great ferocity he hauls Pirelli up--

Pirelli's eyes snap open--

And Todd SLASHES his throat--

The piercing factory whistle SCREAMS--

Todd remains standing over Pirelli as the painful whistle

echoes into music...

We see that the Gentleman is still standing there, watching

Todd...

The dashing Oxford Student is now leaning against a wall,

arms folded, looking at Todd...

The Tourist stands by the window...

The last word echoes to silence as we cut to:

A high-angle shot of the room.

The ghosts are gone.

Todd stands alone over Pirelli's body. Blood dripping from

his razor. Drip. Drip. Drip.

Judge Turpin lurks over the proceedings.

He sits, the personification of power, very high at the

bench. He glares down a wasted wretch of a BOY. The Beadle

stands next to the boy.

He places a black cloth on his head:

The wretched boy collapses in sobs. The Beadle is pleased

with the verdict.

The Judge removes the black cloth and tosses it casually on

his desk:

The Judge and the Beadle walk away from the impressive

edifices of the Old Bailey.

The Beadle proceeds with exquisite and obsequious delicacy:

As they round a corner, the Judge feels his chin:

They head off.

Mrs. Lovett is pouring Toby a glass of gin, not his first.

He gulps down the gin between ravenous bites of another meat

pie as she nervously glances up to the ceiling, wondering

what the hell is going on up there.

She goes.

Mrs. Lovett enters. Todd is methodically cleaning his razor.

He casually points the razor toward the chest.

She lifts the lid and sees Pirelli's body at the bottom of

the chest.

She looks into the chest again.

She starts to close the chest, then has an idea.

She reaches in and rummages around the body. Pulls out

Pirelli's chatelaine purse, then drops the lid of the chest.

She stops, looks at him.

Todd sighs and moves to his familiar post at the window:

Todd suddenly gasps -- a great, shocking intake of breath as

his whole body tenses like iron--

Mrs. Lovett spins to him--

Mrs. Lovett hurries to the window--

Below, they can see the Judge and the Beadle approaching.

They see them exchanging a few words and then the Beadle

moves off as the Judge approaches the shop--

Todd whispers, his eyes blazing:

Mrs. Lovett gives him a quick kiss and then very quickly

leaves. A beat as Todd prepares himself.

He turns from the window and looks around the shop, shifting

nervously. Now that his great moment of revenge is at hand,

he doesn't quite know what to do with himself.

He snatches up his large razor, coils by the door, ready to

attack. No. He wants to savor this. He quickly moves and puts

the razor down.

Finally he just stands. All his demons settling into a

bizarre sort of calm.

He hears the Judge's footsteps approaching on the stairs.

Then the Judge enters.

Todd slowly turns:

The Judge grunts and glances around the shop:

The Judge settles into the parlor chair as music begins...

He whips a sheet over the Judge, then tucks the bib in. The

Judge hums, flicking imaginary dust off the sheet; Todd

whistles gaily.

The Judge hums jauntily, Todd whistles and starts stropping

his razor rhythmically. He then lathers the Judge's face.

Still whistling, Todd stands back to survey the Judge, who is

now totally relaxed, eyes closed.

Todd goes to his razor and picks it up, sings to it gently:

A shocked tremor through Todd -- as the Judge closes his eyes

again and settles in comfortably...

The music rises...

The music builds as he steps behind the Judge-- his razor

ready -- we are sure the great moment has come -- the music

still builds -- Todd finally puts the razor at the Judge's

throat--

Then--

With an easy flick of his wrist, he just begins to shave the

Judge, as:

They sing simultaneously:

The music approaches a feverish crescendo as Todd prepares to

finally kill the Judge and they sing simultaneously:

Just as the music reaches a climax, Todd raises his arm in a

huge arc and is about to slash the Judge's throat when--

Suddenly--

Anthony bursts in--

The Judge jumps up, away from Todd--

He tears off the sheet as he advances savagely on Anthony:

He spins with venom to Todd:

He strides out.

Todd stands, frozen.

Todd suddenly turns on him with a ferocious ROAR:

Utterly stunned at his friend's ferocity, Anthony backs away,

leaves the shop.

Music begins, very agitated, as Todd stands motionless.

In shock.

His mind cracking apart.

Mrs. Lovett hurries in:

Todd interrupts wildly:

The music becomes ferocious as Todd's wrenching insanity,

always close to the surface, finally explodes:

He suddenly looks to Mrs. Lovett -- she starts back --

alarmed by the pure madness in his eyes--

He suddenly lurches and grabs Mrs. Lovett tightly--

He clutches her to him very tightly as he suddenly keens, a

howl of pure agony:

He hurls Mrs. Lovett away from him--

We suddenly slash to--

--In Todd's mind.

We are moving with him as he stalks relentlessly, holding his

razor, striding down a busy street like a tiger.

The many pedestrians he passes don't even notice him. He is

invisible to them, a wolf among the sheep, as he beckons--

Todd continues to stride, beckoning to another man:

Todd continues to stride, beckoning to another man:

Todd continues to stride, beckoning to another man:

Todd continues to prowl...

Todd suddenly falls to his knees, keening in anguish--

He raises his razor high on the soaring last note as we pull

back ... our view is suddenly obscured by a strange, frenzied

fluttering of black wings ... We continue to pull back ... We

discover the black wings are pigeons, thousands of them,

flying up in a great cloud...

We continue to pull back to finally discover that Todd is

kneeling in the heart of a church square...

Empty but for him.

As his cry ends we slash back to--

-- Todd is kneeling, sweat pouring through his clothes,

panting for air.

Mrs. Lovett stands, looking down at him intently.

Todd remains kneeling, motionless. She goes to him, firm:

She slaps his cheek -- he looks up at her, barely seeing her.

She hauls him up and drags him out...

She pulls him in.

He thumps down, still in his own dark world.

She quickly glances around for Toby and then goes into her

parlor...

She discovers Toby is asleep on the sofa before the fire.

She quickly snatches up a bottle of gin from the sideboard

and returns to the pie shop...

She pours Todd a tumbler of gin, hands it to him:

A chord of music. A beat. An idea. He looks at her

uncomprehendingly.

Todd suddenly understands:

The music builds as they sing simultaneously:

A triumphant waltz theme begins:

They sing simultaneously:

Music continues under:

She goes to the counter and comes back with an imaginary pie:

She holds the imaginary pie out to him with a sly and wicked

smile.

Mrs. Lovett presents another imaginary pie:

Todd laughs as the glorious waltz theme returns:

The music continues under:

Todd chortles as Mrs. Lovett offers another pie with a

particular, flamboyant panache:

The music vamps deliciously as:

She offers him a butcher's cleaver:

He takes the cleaver, feels the heft of it. Feels good.

Then he picks up her wooden rolling pin, hands it to her, as

the music builds into the triumphant waltz:

The music builds to a climax as they joyously brandish their

"weapons. "

Small, white hands ... removing some clothes from a drawer

... putting them into a portmanteau ... locking the case...

Johanna, wearing traveling clothes, is packing to leave when

a voice surprises her:

She turns. The Judge stands in the doorway.

He enters, dangerously quiet. And terrifically hurt.

He moves toward her. She stands her ground.

He stands very close to her. Still she holds her ground.

The large form of the Beadle fills the doorway. She glances

to him, disquieted.

He nods to the Beadle -- the Beadle surges forward and grabs

Johanna brutally--

She screams and fights like a tiger -- to no avail--

The Beadle covers her mouth with one of his huge hands and

hauls her out--

Anthony is racing toward the front of mansion when he sees--

A hansom cab is just pulling away -- Johanna's terrified face

looking at him through the window--

Anthony sees the Beadle pulling her away from the window as

the carriage clatters off--

Judge Turpin stands on the steps of the mansion -- Anthony

goes to him in a murderous rage:

The Judge spins and roars -- a hellish howl that echoes--

Anthony's eyes burn into the Judge -- but he is no killer.

He turns and races after the hansom cab. It rounds a corner

and is gone.

The Judge watches as Anthony pursues the cab, disappearing

around the corner.

And we fade to...

...The face of the Beggar Woman.

She sits, crouched on her haunches, peering up from under her

few greasy locks of hair.

She is watching something intently. A few pedestrians move

quickly down the sidewalk past her, excited. They chatter

back and forth eagerly...

The Beggar Woman uncoils and follows...

And we finally see what the Beggar Woman has been watching so

intently...

Mrs. Lovett's wretched establishment has been transformed!

She has created a modest outdoor eating garden with tables,

surrounded by glowing Chinese lanterns. A fresh coat of

paint, a few bushes in pots and birds in cages add to the

feeling of upward mobility.

A new sign hangs proudly over the entrance to the pie shop:

"MRS. LOVETT'S WORLD FAMOUS MEAT PIES!" And then in smaller

letters: "LIKE MOTHER USED TO MAKE."

The eating garden is already crowded, the benches at the

tables are filled and other customers stand and mill about.

All eating, eating, eating...

...The most delicious looking meat pies you could ever

imagine. Crispy crust. Thick, luxurious gravy. Tart and tangy

meat.

The customers take great, hungry mouthfuls; the steaming

gravy oozing down greedy faces.

Chomp. Chomp. Chomp.

The Beggar Women stands across the street, ravenously hungry.

She finally gets the nerve to approach when--

Toby -- wearing a spiffy new outfit with apron -- bursts from

the shop and circulates through the customers:

He moves through the greedily eating customers in the outdoor

garden and toward the street as:

He arrives at the street and drums up some more business:

Just then Mrs. Lovett sweeps from the pie shop with a tray of

hot, steaming pies.

Like her shop, she has been transformed as well. She wears

her somewhat gauche notion of a "fancy dress." Buckets of

decolletage. And her hair has been dyed a rather unique

aubergine color.

The customers suddenly exclaim their joy through awkward

mouthfuls of pie:

Toby scurries inside to get a jug of ale, whisks back out and

starts filling tankards as Mrs. Lovett circulates grandly.

She is a bundle of activity -- serving pies, collecting

money, giving orders, addressing the patrons individually and

with equal buoyant insincerity:

She spots the Beggar Woman approaching and responds with

unusual ferocity:

Toby shoos the Beggar Woman away, but she soon comes skulking

back.

She does.

Music continues as Todd works busily. Sawing, drilling,

screwing, hammering. Doing something we cannot see to his

barber chair. Making adjustments, tinkering, building,

feverish. Happy.

Mrs. Lovett continues to circulate:

Toby catches him, collects the money, as Mrs. Lovett turns to

another customer:

The customers are getting more rabid now -- stuffing in the

gorgeous meat pies in great fistfuls--

Music continues as Todd makes the final adjustments to his

chair. He stands back. Seems delighted with the results of

his tinkering. The ratty old parlor chair has been

transformed into a sleek, Victorian barber chair -- with

unique refinements.

He leaves the barber shop...

Todd stands at the top of the stairs, watching the street

hungrily. As, below, Mrs. Lovett smiles to another customer:

She hangs up a "Sold Out" sign.

She spots a man in need of a shave approaching:

She sees the man going up to the barber shop. Todd is still

standing at the top of the stairs. He smiles secretly to Mrs.

Lovett as he ushers the man in.

The man goes into the barber shop as she happily takes down

the "Sold Out" sign and turns again to the customers:

Mrs. Lovett then spots the Beggar Woman approaching again,

she spins to Toby with truly shocking viciousness:

Mrs. Lovett watches intently as Toby leads the Beggar Woman

away.

The Customers, meanwhile, are building to a pure frenzy of

mastication -- chewing and gulping and snapping at the

heavenly pies:

The music comes to a rousing conclusion as Mrs. Lovett stands

at the door to her shop. Triumphant.

Todd is alone. He sits in the barber chair, smoking a pipe.

He is holding an old Daguerreotype; creased, stained and

bleached-out.

The image shows his wife, Lucy, smiling and holding Baby

Johanna. The child's features are almost completely obscured

by a stain on the picture.

He looks at it deeply.

Then church bells echo in the distance...

... The church bells continue as we discover Anthony,

searching through the streets for Johanna. We see him in long

shot as he moves through the contours of the city.

He starts his search in a luxurious area of wealth. His

journey through the city will take him lower and lower, into

the darkest corners of London.

He continues walking...

...Todd gazes quietly at the Daguerreotype:

...We see the figure of Anthony, walking along the docks.

...Todd shaves a customer. We recognize the customer

instantly: it is the GENTLEMAN.

The Daguerreotype now rest on the counter.

Todd remains wistful, detached, dream-like.

...We see the figure of Anthony, walking past hanging

carcasses of the busy meat market.

...The dead Gentleman is slumped in the chair.

He pulls a lever on the newly adjusted chair -- the chair

becomes a slide -- and the Gentleman disappears through a

trapdoor in the floor, down a chute -- Todd pulls the lever

again and the chair returns to its normal position.

...We see Anthony moving past a crowded tenement, redolent of

cholera.

...Music continues as Mrs. Lovett descends a long and very

claustrophobic series of steps down to the bakehouse. She

unbolts and pulls aside a heavy iron door and enters.

We remain outside. A fiery red glow spills out -- the roar of

the oven within is thundering.

...The Beggar Woman stands on Fleet Street. The hellish

metropolis glows, the smoke from a thousand chimneys creating

a great pall over the city.

...The red glow of sunset fills the shop as Todd ushers in

another customer and prepares to shave him:

...We see the figure of Anthony moving down a dark alley.

Shadowy figures lurk along the alley walls.

...Todd continues to prepare to shave the customer:

...We see Anthony moving past an lonely graveyard.

...Anthony continues to move past the graveyard.

...Music continues as Mrs. Lovett emerges from the bakehouse

with a rack of hot pies.

She walks out of frame, up the steps, as we push in on the

crack in the door. The fiery roar of the oven within is

overpowering.

...The Beggar Woman is scuttling madly along Fleet Street.

She approaches the pie shop, the agitated music matching her

increasing frenzy. She grabs a stunned Toby -- who is

carrying some packages toward the pie shop:

She spots Mrs. Lovett emerging from the pie shop and explodes

in desperation, pointing madly:

Toby pulls away from her, as she begins to scuttle off:

She appeals to other pedestrians as she goes:

Toby turns to consider the horrible black smoke belching from

the chimney of the pie shop. Something about the foul, ebony

smoke troubles him.

...Todd is standing alone, contemplative, slowly and

methodically stropping his razor.

...We see the figure of Anthony trudging past the sinister

opium dens and depraved taverns of the East End.

...Todd completes shaving a customer. The customer's wife and

daughter are waiting.

The customer pays. With a pleasant smile, Todd ushers them

out..

...Anthony wanders past the high and impenetrable walls of a

madhouse, the demented souls within can be seen moving about

in silhouette behind barred windows.

Something makes him stop. He turns to consider the asylum...

...Todd shaves another customer. A beautiful morning outside

the window.

As the note continues, he pulls the lever and the customer

disappears down the chute...

...Anthony stares up at the asylum.

...As the music concludes, Todd picks up the faded

Daguerreotype and again sits in his barber chair.

He gazes at the picture, lost in revery.

Mrs. Lovett and Todd rest on a picnic blanket, just like any

other couple out enjoying the fine day.

The remains of a nice picnic lunch are scattered around them

and Toby can be seen flying a kite a bit away.

Mrs. Lovett watches happy couples moving about ... dogs and

kids running hither and yon ... military officers squiring

their ladies ... nurses with prams...

Todd is distinctly ill at ease, brooding, as she chatters:

No response from Todd. She leans across and pecks him on the

cheek:

The music continues as she leans back comfortably, beginning

to imagine a wonderful, domestic future...

And we go to...

...In Mrs. Lovett's mind.

She and Todd sit in the exact same positions as in Hampstead

Heath. Only now they are sitting on a beach.

They are wearing what she imagines as fashionable seaside

bathing clothes.

Toby, who is not consumptively pale but overly rosy-cheeked

in her fantasy, is building a sandcastle nearby.

Mrs. Lovett is sitting with her Dream Todd, of course, so he

has a bland smile on his face. Somewhat unnatural.

In fact, there is something vaguely unreal and stilted about

all of this.

Mrs. Lovett strolls with Todd on a boardwalk. Artificially

lovely couples, like rotogravure magazine pictures, move

about.

Toby runs along ahead of them.

Mrs. Lovett and Todd recline on comfortable deck chairs,

having tea and scones.

Mrs. Lovett's notion of a fashionable little seaside cottage.

Crushing in its bourgeois blandness.

She is making Toby try on a sweater. Todd is writing a

letter.

Back on the beach, she cuddles into Todd:

Mrs. Lovett and Todd snuggle into bed:

Mrs. Lovett and Todd entertain some unnaturally jolly chums.

Back on the beach.

Toby pulls Mrs. Lovett over to examine his little sandcastle

as:

Music continues as Todd joins them. He kneels with Toby to

help him work on the sandcastle. Mrs. Lovett stands, watching

them, the picture of the doting mother.

Mrs. Lovett and Todd getting married. This being her fantasy,

after all, she wears white. Todd is in a constricting morning

coat with a rakish top hat. Toby, the best man, watches

proudly.

They exchange vows and kiss.

Mrs. Lovett is placing a plate of kippers on the table amidst

a proper English breakfast. A guest stands, leaning against a

wall, waiting to eat.

A dark shape quickly moves past the guest -- Todd -- then the

guest slides down the wall -- a splash of blood on the

wallpaper-

Back at the beach, Mrs. Lovett, Todd and Toby sit

comfortably. Watching an unnaturally gorgeous sunset.

A picture postcard of a happy family.

The music concludes as she throws her arms affectionately

around her two men.

We cut back to--

--Mrs. Lovett is sitting in the exact same position with

Todd. Silence.

Her smiles fades as she considers him. The grim, brooding

reality is so clear next to her lovely dream.

She watches him in silence as we fade to...

Todd is standing at his usual post, the window, gazing

intently down at Fleet Street.

Mrs. Lovett enters with a tray of food:

She stops when he realizes he isn't even listening to her.

Her heart sinks seeing him at the window, wearing his

obsession like a cloak.

A beat as she looks at him.

He turns to her.

He turns back to the window.

Mrs. Lovett proceeds with great sincerity:

He does not answer.

He does not answer.

A long beat.

He finally turns from the window. Almost as if to leave his

demons behind...

She smiles quietly and holds out her hand...

She begins to cross to him...

SUDDENLY REVEALING--

The Gentleman!

Standing right behind Mrs. Lovett--

He is glaring at Todd, relentless and accusatory--

Blood pouring from his throat--

A shocking horror movie vision--

Then the bell rings outside the shop ... Todd turns ... the

Gentleman is gone ... we hear footsteps climbing the

stairs...

Mrs. Lovett remains standing, her hand out to him, as--

Anthony enters, absolutely exhausted.

Todd's head snaps to Anthony, riveted:

Todd begins pacing, the tiger again, his mind is racing--

Anthony fades to a brooding silence as Todd continues pacing,

thinking, thinking. Mrs. Lovett watches him, concerned.

Todd suddenly stops...

We see him settling into an inspired sort of calm, as if he

can finally see the Promised Land.

Todd suddenly grabs Anthony and hauls him up -- holds him

close, forehead to forehead -- his whispered intensity truly

disturbing:

Mrs. Lovett watches, troubled, as Todd embraces Anthony

closely. He holds him for a long beat.

Then Todd is all action, hurries to get some money and gives

it to Anthony, as:

Anthony hurries out.

Todd immediately hurls himself into a chair and begins

writing a letter, his violent scrawl slashing across the

page.

Mrs. Lovett goes...

Mrs. Lovett begins going down the stairs outside the barber

shop.

Then she stops. She stands for a long moment, disturbed that

Todd's demons are again devouring him.

She looks down and sees Toby washing the tables in the

outdoor garden. Toby is serious about his work, vigorously

scrubbing the tables with soap and water.

She watches him for a moment and then continues down the

steps:

He goes up the steps. She just stands, deep in thought.

Todd is finishing the letter as Toby enters:

