CAST

MACREADY

35. Helicopter pilot. Likes chess. Hates the cold. The pay

is good.

GARRY

46. The station manager. Stiff. Ex-army officer. Wears a

handgun.

CHILDS

33. Six-four. Two-fifty. Black. A mechanic. Can be jolly.

But don't mess.

BLAIR

50. Sensitive. Intelligent. Unassuming. An assistant

biologist.

DR. COPPER

45. Professional. A decent man. A good doctor.

PALMER

27. Second string chopper pilot. Crack mechanic. Long hair.

Slight sixties acid damage.

NAULS

22. The cook. Bright. Black. Irreverent. But kindhearted.

Roller skates.

NORRIS

44. Stocky. Rugged looking. A geophysicist. An incipient

heart condition.

BENNINGS

38. A meteorologist. Dutiful. An old pro.

CLARK

24. The dog handler. Likes it here. Good at his job.

SANCHEZ

21. The radio operator. Hates it here. Lousy at his job.

In the winter of 1982 these men were commissioned by the

United States National Science Foundation to gather data

concerning the physical and natural sciences on the continent

of Antarctica.

The interior is a cramped and never ending maze of hallways,

passageways and doors which connect the many rooms and

compartments within the compound. Sturdy, but prefabricated

materials have been used in its construction.

There is a laboratory. An infirmary. A kitchen and mess hall.

A communications room and sleeping quarters. Other cubicles

are for storage and supplies.

The most spacious area of the building, and the main center

of activity, is the Rec Room. Of the many entrance ways to

this room can be seen the small work chambers with their

sophisticated computers and other scientific equipment.

The below quarter houses the generator and still other

compartments for storage.

A long underground tunnel connects the main compound to the

dog kennel.

FADE IN:

A STARRY BLACKNESS

From out of the billions, the smallest of specks drives slowly

forward. It closes; getting larger; its features becoming

more identifiable: a vessel. Flip-flopping; out of control.

Its stern roaring with flame. It passes; its blue fire surging

into the screen.

A thundering...

BLIND AND FERAL WHITENESS

...Glacial desert... gusts of snow... superimpose:

A SOUND

Loud and strident. A helicopter streaks across frame. It

travels precariously close to the ground; its chassis battered

and swayed by the wind.

INT. COPTER

Red dials beam on the faces of two men. One carries a rifle

and searches the horizon with binoculars. The other pilots.

Their unkempt faces, their blazing eyes notate a wildness.

They bark at each other in some Scandinavian tongue. Two men

arguing like mad and desperate children.

The man with the binoculars sights something.

EXT. HORIZON - BINOCULARS' POV - A DOG

It turns and snarls at the craft some fifteen hundred yards

to its rear. Then whirls and gallops off. A gun blast kicks

up snow at its heels.

INT. COPTER

Another blast of rifle fire as the man takes issue with his

prey. The pilot slams a fist into his gunman friend and

implores for better aim. The craft swoops lower and the engine

is put into full throttle.

EXT. HILL - THE DOG

running feverishly up and over a hill of ice. A weather-

beaten, wooden sign sticks up on the other side:

A rifle blast kicks up more snow.

EXT. COMPOUND OF U.S. OUTPOST #31

A large, almost snow-covered building. Not far from that a

tall, meteorological balloon tower.

A scattering of several small shacks at varying distances

from the main compound. The smaller hovels are connected by

wooden planked walkways and steadying ropes. Multicolored

pennants stick put of the snow marking pathways and directions

to outdoor experiments.

A tractor and two helicopters sit idle, covered with mounds

of continuously mounting snow.

TWO MEN, NORRIS AND BENNINGS

standing some thirty yards from the main building are in the

process of letting up a large red balloon. Childs, a hefty

black man, is twenty yards away tinkering with a snowmobile.

Their beards are caked with ice. It is winter and it is harsh.

The faint sound of the copter turns their attention.

THE COPTER

flying ever lower now. The man with the gun leans dangerously

outside and fires away at the dog as it nears the outpost.

THE MEN

outside the compound look to one another, incredulous.

THE COPTER

much too low now, and chastised by the wind, attempts a high-

speed landing, directly on the heels of the sprinting dog.

It bounces violently on the hard-packed surface.

Once. Twice. Passing the dog.

A third bounce sends it skidding. It flips; its blades

snapping off like toothpicks. It lands belly-up, soundless

except for the whine of its engine.

The man with the gun rolls out before the explosion.

INT. MAIN COMPOUND

The half a dozen men, playing cards, monitoring equipment,

listening to music -- spring to their feet, startled.

EXT. COMPOUND

The dog reaches Norris and Bennings, as they awkwardly wade

through the snow, toward the downed copter.

THE SURVIVOR

of the crash, his eyes crazed with determination, struggles

to his feet. Heedless of his companion, he double-times his

way to the men and the dog. He reloads his gun and bellows

in his Scandinavian tongue.

Norris and Bennings have no idea what he is saying.

The survivor waves his arms as if shooting them off, screaming

as he does so; his face now caked with blood.

The two men are bewildered. The dog jumps up, licking and

pawing them, imploring for safety.

Blam!! The visitor fires. The men jump back in disbelief.

Blam! Blam! The crazed visitor screams and fires as he stalks

after them. His countenance ablaze, mad. Ice and snow kick

up about the terrified Americans. A bullet smacks into the

dog's hip, sending it skidding and howling in pain.

Childs, the black man by the snowmobile, takes cover, diving

behind his machine.

Bennings is hit. Norris pulls, drags him back toward the

compound. The dog crawls along beside them.

The intruder is relentless in his assail. He runs, screaming,

firing, screaming, reloading and firing.

INT. COMPOUND

Total confusion. Some watch helplessly through the small,

fogged-up and translucent windows. Others try to mobilize

grabbing for their heavy jackets.

CLOSE ON A .357 MAGNUM

as it efficiently breaks through a windowpane and into the

cold. A steady hand grips it firmly.

THE SCANDINAVIAN

getting closer. Kablam! Suddenly, his head jerks back. He

falls to his knees and then face down into the snow.

NORRIS AND BENNINGS

stare blankly, but relievedly at the fallen man. The dog

whimpers in pain.

CHILDS

pokes his head out from under the snowmobile.

INT. MAIN COMPOUND - REC ROOM

The rumbling of voices fades. The men adjust their eyes to

station manager Garry, as he extracts his gun from the broken

window, relieves it of its spent shell and puts it away.

EXT. BURNING COPTER

Several men spray snow on the burning wreckage. There is no

hope for the pilot.

INT. COMPOUND

CLOSE ON THE PALLID FACE OF THE SCANDINAVIAN INTRUDER

A neat round hole is set in the middle of his forehead.

Station manager Garry holds up something akin to an ID.

Fuchs, a young and sensitive-looking biologist, stands closest

to the large area map of Antarctica. Several men sit and

stand around viewing the body that lies on two brought-

together card-tables.

Garry directs his attention to Childs, the large black man

who had been working on the snowmobile. Next to him sits

Norris, the rugged-looking, fortyish, geophysicist, who was

one of the men being shot at.

Garry motions inquiringly to Norris.

INT. INFIRMARY

Dr. Cooper, mid-forties, works on the outstretched leg of

Bennings, the meteorologist. Clark, the dog handler, is

mending the hip of the wounded dog off in the corner.

Bennings lets out with an ouch.

He helps a shaken Bennings up off the table.

The dog yelps and whimpers as Clark tries to calm him.

INT. RADIO ROOM

Blair, senior biologist, fifty, balding, leans against the

entrance door.

He looks on as the young, bored-looking radio operator,

Sanchez, attends to his equipment. Bursts of static.

INT. HALLWAY

Nauls, the cook, glides along on his roller stakes down one

of the many narrow hallways that connect the various

compartments of the main compound. He is black, a little

mischievous, about twenty-two.

He comes to a flashy skidding stop at one of the entrances

to the rec room area, where the men are gathered with the

dead Norwegian.

Palmer, a spacy, twenty-seven year old, novice pilot and

mechanic, grins as he lights a joint. He directs a remark to

station manager Garry.

Garry rebukes him with a stern look and then turns to Fuchs.

Fuchs leafing through a pile of papers.

Dr. Copper enters the room. Bennings limping after him

slightly.

Palmer smiles and flips the cook the bird.

The men's attention turn to Copper.

Garry still does not much like the idea. Palmer takes another

hit off his joint.

Slight laughter from some of the men.

EXT. U.S. OUTPOST #31

Norris, bundled in his sixty-five pounds of clothing, exits

the main compound. He walks the prefab wooden planks up the

precipice; his destination is someone a hundred yards up the

slope -- to a shack. He grabs onto the steadying ropes and

pulls himself against the wind and blowing sleet.

INT. MACREADY'S SHACK - CLOSE ON ICE CUBES

being dumped into a glass, followed by the pouring of whiskey.

An electronic Voice is heard.

MacReady takes a sip of his drink; makes his way over to his

electronic chess game. A large Mexican sombrero hangs on his

back. He is tall; about thirty-five. His shack is sparse but

unkempt. A few centerfolds on the wall are interspersed by

an occasional poster of some Mediterranean or South American

paradise.

The chess game is of larger than normal size. The pieces

move automatically with the press of a button. He sits down

and chuckles over his opponent's bad move.

He confidently taps out his move. His companion's response

is immediate.

MacReady's grin slowly fades as he examines the board. There

is a pounding at his door. MacReady broods for a bit, heedless

of his visitor and makes his next move.

More impatient pounding. MacReady glares at his opponent for

a beat. He bends forward, opens up a flap containing the

chess game's circuitry and pours in his drink. There ensues

a snapping, popping sound as smoke and sparks rise from the

machine; followed by a flush of chess gibberish.

MacReady gets up from his seat, mumbling on his way to the

door.

He opens the door. Norris steps in followed by a flurry of

snow and wind.

EXT. OUTPOST

One of the grounded choppers is being readied for take-off.

Childs holds a huge industrial torch to the engine, warming

it up.

INT. MAIN COMPOUND - CORRIDOR

Garry, Bennings, Dr. Copper, Palmer and MacReady wind their

way through the slender corridors on their way to the chopper.

Dr. Copper carries a satchel of medicine supplies. MacReady,

going over his flight chart, looks mad as hell. Dialogue

overlaps.

INT./ EXT. CHOPPER

Dr. Copper sits next to MacReady, who is at the controls.

MacReady tightens the string of his sombrero around his neck

and starts up its choking engine.

MacReady fights violently with the controls as he struggles

to get the craft into the air. It finally rights itself and

moves up and off into the grey-white sky.

INT. MAIN COMPOUND

A couple of the men mingle in the area. Clark, the dog

handler, looks out the window.

The dog, a large bandage on his hip, wades through the room.

Under tables. Past men's legs. It hobbles slightly. No one

takes notice.

EXT. THE CHOPPER

moves over a ridge of ice. Columns of smoke can be seen rising

ominously from a quarter mile off.

INT. CHOPPER - POINT OF VIEW

As they near, the smoke looms thicker. A black, tar-like

gush; billowing up into the grey sky from the whiteness below.

EXT. NORWEGIAN CAMP

Smoke climbs upward in the f.g. MacReady sets his craft down.

Pull back to reveal the camp itself: resembling the aftermath

of a western fort, sacked and ravaged by Indians.

Small fires and debris are strewn everywhere. The prefab

Administration Building exposes gaping holes. Smoke rises

from the almost entirely snow-buried Quonset huts. Embers

swirl in every direction.

INT. CHOPPER

The two men look at each other in silence. They get out.

CLOSE ON A LARGE, MAKESHIFT FUNERAL PYRE

smoldering to a close. A hastily conceived crematorium. Wood,

books, furniture, tires, anything that will burn has been

mixed together with the charred remains of several dogs and

the body of a man.

Curious mounds of a melted and blackened goo are heaped within

the mess.

A small can of gasoline lies nearby. A large oil drum not

far off.

MACREADY AND COPPER

their faces ashen as they take in this grotesque sight.

MacReady turns to view the Norwegian compound. He then

exchanges a look with Copper. MacReady heads back toward the

chopper.

THE CHOPPER

MacReady unhinges the shotgun that is latched to the panel

behind the seats.

EXT. THE MAIN BUILDING - THE DOOR

MacReady and Dr. Copper stand hesitantly amidst the wisps of

snow and embers. MacReady tries the door. It is unlocked. He

slowly pushes it open with his gun. A creaking. A long pitch-

black corridor. Copper shines a flashlight.

No answer. Just wind. They exchange a look and enter.

INT. NARROW CORRIDOR

The two men move slowly. It is dank and cold. Their breath,

bleating like exhaust. A soft, steady wind howls overhead.

The flashlight is not much help.

Further down, they hear a faint hissing sound. As they get

closer it more resembles static. The flashlight finds a door

at the end of the corridor. The sputtering static comes from

within.

The face of the door has been shredded. An ax sticks out

from its middle. MacReady wrenches out the ax. There is blood

on it. The men acknowledge this for a beat.

MacReady tries the knob. It opens slightly. Something is

blocking it from the other side.

Nothing.

Nothing.

MacReady pushes against the door.

They push, shove, grunt. The door gives a bit. Finally more.

It widens enough for MacReady to see that a large computer-

like machine is blocking their path. MacReady wedges in and

shines the flashlight.

It is the communications room. Holes in its roof have allowed

in the freezing cold. The flashlight exposes the back of the

radio chair. One more nudge allows them into the room.

A beat as they catch their breath. MacReady spots a Coleman

lantern. He lights it with a match. Holds it up. The brighter

light exposes the top of a man's head sitting in the radio

chair.

The chair rocks slightly with the gentle breeze. They inch

closer. A yard from the chair, MacReady stops the Doctor.

He pokes his gun at the chair's back.

Dr. Copper spots something. From the man's wrist on the

armrest, he follows a long, yarn-thick, red line, ending in

a pool of frozen blood on the floor.

The two men step around the chair. The Norwegian stares up

in blanched death. A gaping black hole for a mouth.

His throat and wrists slit. An old-fashioned straight razor

in his lap.

MacReady turns off the hissing radio, and marches to the

other door. It is locked and barricaded.

The two men free a machine-like obstacle from the other exit.

MacReady opens a lock and pushes the door open.

More blackness. Stronger wind. Copper holds the lantern high

as they make their way down a row of wooden steps and into a

cavernous, underground causeway.

Whap!! Something slaps into the Doctor's face from the

darkness. The lantern crashes to the ground. The Doctor

stumbles, falls. MacReady grabs the flashlight and whirls in

different directions. A panting beat. Silence.

Dr. Copper holds up what hit him. A thick centerfold, buffeted

by the wind. MacReady takes it.

MacReady pockets it for further viewing.

INT. THE NARROWEST OF CORRIDORS

The supporting beams have long since buckled and cracked

from the constantly moving ice underneath. The evidence of

fire has further weakened the foundations. The wood creaks

overhead. Bits of ice and silt trickle down.

The two men walk hunched, cautious. MacReady gingerly tries

to make his way around a broken and smoldering beam. He

brushes it gently sending a shower of debris from the yawning

roof.

The two men wait until it subsides and then moves on.

Further down. MacReady's knee bumps into something along the

wall, causing him to stumble slightly. He shines his light

on it.

An arm is sticking out of a steel door about three feet off

the ground. The door has been slammed shut. The arm pinned,

its fist still gripping a small welding torch.

The flame long since gone out.

He tries the door. Unlocked. It opens. The arm drops to the

ground. It has been severed by the force of the slam.

Its owner is nowhere to be seen.

MacReady, sickened, coughs. Dr. Copper mumbles.

They step over the arm and into another slim passageway.

Moving along they come to rest in front of a door with

Norwegian lettering on it.

MacReady pushes it open with his foot. Dozens of papers fly

about, flailed by the holes in the Quonset hut-style roof.

The place is a wreck. They enter. MacReady surveying the

small room with his flashlight.

Broken beakers, test tubes, a microscope are illuminated.

MacReady notices a video camera.

Copper makes his way over to the main work table. He shuffles

through papers, glancing at the writing.

Dr. Copper bends down and begins gathering the papers, strewn

about the room.

He exits. Amongst the rubble, Dr. Copper finds a pocket tape

recorder and several cassettes. He selects a tape and is

about to pop it in when he senses something to his rear. He

turns. Looks. A beat. Nothing.

INT. HALLWAY

MacReady shoves himself into another room.

INT. ROOM

Debris and wood flush down on him. The receding ceiling had

been blocking the door from above. He brushes his coat and

shines the light upwards.

The ceiling is a shambles. He then shines the light deeper

into the room.

INT. NORWEGIAN LAB

Dr. Copper is playing the small tape recorder. A casual

Norwegian voice drones on as if making notes. He fast

forwards. The same casual drone.

INT. ROOM

Dr. Copper enters, squeezing in, through the door. The wood

cracks overhead. More debris comes falling down.

Copper dusts himself. MacReady stands before a huge block of

ice. Fifteen feet long. Six feet wide. Four feet tall.

It has partially melted, but its thawing process has been

stopped by the now freezing temperatures within the outpost.

Its one curious feature: the middle has been thawed and

scooped out. Giving it the appearance of a large bathtub.

The two men study it uncomprehendingly.

MacReady's gaze turns to a large metal cabinet at his left.

He moves for a closer look. Several photographs are pasted

to its door. Small snapshots of the Norwegians at work and

play.

He tries to open it. Stuck. The partially caved-in ceiling

is slightly blocking the top of the door. He tries again,

careful not to dislodge the wood and plaster above. Bits of

dust float down.

His grip is too strong. It gives suddenly, unexpectedly. The

large metal door flies open.

Large chunks splash from the ceiling. They come thumping to

the floor, behind and in front of the open cabinet door.

MacReady coughs and waves away the dust. He peers inside.

Nothing much. Some empty shelves. Some small scientific gear.

His flashlight then locates a large photograph taped to the

inside of the cabinet door.

It is a picture of five Norwegians, arm in arm, all smiles,

toasting each other. They are on either side of the frozen

block of ice, pridefully displaying it for the camera. The

block looks much thicker. Its interior opaque.

MacReady looks to the block of ice and then back to the

photograph. He untapes it, pockets it and shuts the door.

An armless corpse swings into his face from behind the closing

door. Dislodged from the ceiling, the body and MacReady go

crashing to the floor.

INT. U.S. OUTPOST - RECREATION ROOM

The loud beat of Warren Zevon's song, "The Werewolves of

London," can be heard throughout the compound. The room is

empty. Close on a video pong game, its ball of light lazily

traveling back and forth. The dog, its tail wagging, its

bandage on, walks by.

INT. KITCHEN

Zevon's record is blasting from Nauls' stereo. He skates

from the big walk-in freezer and plunks down a large side of

beef on the wood-cutting table to thaw. He skates from pot

to pan keeping time with his sounds.

He smells. Tastes. Adds a little something here, a touch

there. He clearly enjoys his work.

Station Manager Garry stops past the open door.

He skates over and turns it down, but not much.

INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM

Garry enters and sees that Sanchez has nodded off in front

of his receiver. His headgear is still on. Garry walks over

and turns up the volume, the static jolting Sanchez awake.

INT. COMPOUND CORRIDOR

An empty hallway. Larger than most. Doors to several sleeping

quarters on either side. The dog slowly walks through.

One of the doors is open up ahead of his left. The dog stops

in front of it and looks in. Someone is inside.

Inside the small cubicle, a slight portion of a man's back

can be seen as he sits bent over a chair; his large shadow

displayed on the wall.

Back in the corridor. The dog looks up the hall once and

casually to the other end. No one. He enters the room. The

sound of a man's voice, too indistinct to tell whose, mumbles:

A beat.

The sound of a glass breaking. A muffled scuffling. The door

is slammed shut from the inside. And then silence.

EXT. COMPOUND

Fuchs, the young biologist, is finishing up his daily jog

around the compound. He stops at the end of a long Quonset

hut almost completely buried in the snow. The hut is fifty

yards long and connects to the main compound. He enters a

tunnel from a latch door up top.

INT. TUNNEL

He jogs down the steps, passing the underground dog kennel

and trots toward the compound through the long narrow tunnel.

He passes and waves to Clark, who rolls along a wheelbarrow

of dog food.

CLARK

opens the door to the small kennel and serves up the dinner.

The dogs, about seven of them, yelp and bark eagerly.

INT. UNDERGROUND PASSAGEWAY

near the fuel supply bladders. Older and more rickety than

the quarters above.

Childs waltzes through, humming, a big smile on his face.

He stops at a door with six locks on it. Different kinds.

Combination locks, key locks, etc. He opens each one

separately.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

Inside are several marijuana plants. Sun lamps beam down on

them. Childs inspects them with a wide grin.

He moves over to a tape deck, selects a cassette, grins back

at the plants and turns it on.

He waters them carefully, as Al Green sings softly. He hears

a panting and turns around to see the dog. His bandage is

gone.

The dog is shooed off. Childs turns back grumbling.

INT. MAIN COMPOUND - HALLWAY

Blair passing through, holding a chart and carrying a rack

of test tubes, notices a large bandage on the floor. He picks

it up, inquiringly. It is mangled and shredded.

INT. GENERATOR ROOM

Palmer works on the generator. He hears the sound of

approaching propeller blades from outside. And then the sound

of his tool box crashing to the floor. He turns to see what

caused the ruckus.

The dog, who has entered the shed, has jumped on the work

table and upended the tool box on its eagerness to look out

of the above window. Palmer curses under his breath and calls

out.

THE DOG

It paws at the window and watches as the chopper, carrying

MacReady and Dr. Copper, fights against the newly arrived

heavy winds and lands safely.

INT. STATION MANAGER GARRY'S QUARTERS

Garry, MacReady, Dr. Copper, Norris, Bennings, Blair and his

assistant, Fuchs, are present. The small Norwegian video

unit has been set up and its contents are being viewed on a

TV screen. Grainy, home movie-ish, no sound.

The proceedings are grim.

Shots of the Norwegian's at work. Others of them playing

soccer on ice. Generally the footage is a prosaic record of

their day-to-day life.

Norris shuffles the bundle of notes Dr. Copper brought back

with him.

MacReady, working on the video machine, answers.

The present footage is a shot of them all naked and probably

drunk, holding a sign across their waists as they stand

outdoors in super-freezing weather.

MacReady turns on the light and shuts off the video machine.

He then slides the portable tape deck across the table to

Dr. Copper. They exchange a look.

A Norwegian voice drones on calmly, making verbal notes.

Norris shrugs.

Dr. Copper fast forwards. The calm voice continues. And then

a loud blast, followed by pounding. The sounds of confusion.

Voices. Loud. Frenetic. Men's feet running up and down wooden

floorboards. A gurgling. A hissing.

Screams. And then a screeching. More blasts mixed with the

din of wild, carnage-wrought cries. And then more screeching.

A screeching unlike anything these men have ever heard.

The men look from one another in silence as they listen.

Dr. Copper turns it off.

Dr. Copper taps the tape deck pensively.

He glances at MacReady, and then back to the others.

INT. INFIRMARY

Dr. Copper and MacReady begin dumping the heavy contents of

a large plastic trash bag onto the slab.

Displayed on the slab is what appears to be the corpse of a

man. Badly charred. What is left of the trousers and shoes

of the bottom torso are ripped and split, as if his legs and

feet had burst from the inside. His upper body is an almost

undecipherable gnarled mass of protoplasmic mush.

The head is strangely disfigured and looks larger than normal.

It is situated not on its shoulders but near the abdomen.

Tendon-like appendages are wrapped around the carcass and

sticking up and out in odd postures. One is wrapped around

the body's left leg.

The shirt has been ripped and lies shredded in the tar-like

mess.

The men grimace.

Blair, sickened but fascinated, pokes at the tendon-like

things and the tarry goo.

INT. REC ROOM - LATER - CLOSE ON A TABLE HOCKEY GAME

Foosball. Nauls and Clark are going at it hot and heavy.

Sanchez sits off in a corner thumbing through an old issue

of Photoplay.

Bennings, Norris and Garry are engaged in a card game.

Bennings is about to play a card when he feels something

under the table. He looks. It is the dog.

INT. LAB

larger than most of the other rooms and well-equipped.

Dr. Copper is performing an autopsy on the Norwegian intruder,

killed early that morning.

Blair sits over his microscope, while Fuchs prepares slides.

The other body is draped with a sheet, waiting its turn. Dr.

Copper pulls off his gloves.

INT. TUNNEL

Clark leads the dog through the long, cold tunnel toward the

kennel. A new dressing has been placed on its hip.

He unlatches the door to the kennel and leads him in.

INT. KENNEL

About twenty feet long, five feet wide. Poorly lit.

Cramped with dogs. Some of them sleeping. Others pacing around

and curious, greet their new companion, sniffing, panting

and rubbing up against him. Clark pats the dog and several

others, then leaves, latching the door behind him.

INT. SLEEPING CUBICLE

Childs lies in his cot watching a small television. The show

is a tape of an American TV game show. He has seen this one

too many times, extracts the cassette and injects another

game show.

Palmer is stretched out in the other cot, reading a comic

book and smoking a joint. Childs beckons for it and takes a

hit.

INT. PUB

A small area, just off the rec room. Set up like a bar.

MacReady is alone looking over the rest of the videotapes

from the Norwegian outpost. Mundane to esoteric chores of

Antarctic camp life. He looks bored.

INT. LAB

Blair, hovering over the microscope, lays in a slide, focuses

and motions for Dr. Copper to take a look.

Copper is confused as he examines. He shrugs.

Fuchs takes the opportunity to look. Blair moves over to the

disfigured corpse and indicates one of the fibrous, tendon-

like appendages.

Fuchs is befuddled as he examines.

Dr. Copper undoes his lab coat and lays it over a chair as

he exits. Blair stares down ominously at the mutilated body.

EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT

A steady stream of sleet pounds the compound and small

surrounding shacks.

INT. REC ROOM

Vacant. The wall clock reads four-thirty.

INT. HALLWAY

Sleeping cubicles on either side. The sound of snoring.

INT. PUB

Bleary-eyed, MacReady is in the process of blowing up some

strange inflatable object. As he puffs away, he still keeps

an eye on the Norwegian video tapes. His balloon begins to

take shape. It blossoms into a life-size replica of a full-

breasted woman. Something on the tape catches his eye. He

rewinds, then starts it forward again.

The screen shows the Norwegians on the surface of what appears

to be an enormous, flat glacier. They are spread out on the

ice around a large odd oval shape; their arms outstretched.

It fades to black and then a Norwegian comes on mugging

childishly in front of the camera, apparently quite pleased

with something.

The tape fades to black again and the picture reappears.

This time they have marked off the large oval area with flag

sticks.

Closer shots show three of the men digging a deep hole into

the ice. There is a small patch of something dark and metallic

at the bottom.

MacReady leans forward, intrigued.

The men are now sinking something deep into the ice at various

points around the markings. MacReady squints and mumbles to

himself.

The tape jump cuts again showing a long shot of the markings.

No Norwegian in sight. An explosion kicks up the ice. A beat

as the ice sprays to the ground. Then the camera appears to

shake as the ground beneath it quivers.

Another immense explosion follows. An earthquake-like force

throws the camera to the ground.

The tape continues, distorted, unviewable. A distinct crack

in the lens. MacReady lets go of his companion and quickly

rewinds. The deflating mannequin is sent sputtering around

the room.

INT. KENNEL - NIGHT

Most of the dogs are sleeping or lounging. The new dog watches

them calmly, silently.

He takes several steps towards a group of about five dogs

and sits upright. Completely still. He stares at them. A

beat. The dogs are aware of something. They begin to seem a

bit confused, uncomfortable.

The new dog continues to stare. Sitting rigidly, unnaturally

still. His eyes dead, lusterless black spheres.

Bewildered, a few dogs start to pace. As if sensing something:

a portent. A danger. But so odd. They begin a soft, purring

growl.

The new dog remains a statue. The growling builds. More dogs

begin to pace. Nervously. Faster, encircling.

Emitting hisses, snarls. The lack of response driving them

into a frenzy.

Barks. Growls. More frenetic pacing. The din escalating.

Three dogs start to close in on the stranger.

They attack.

THE SHADOW OF THE NEW DOG

against the kennel wall. The shadow suddenly lurches upward,

seeming larger.

The kennel roars.

INT. PUB

MacReady is still going over bits of the same footage,

fascinated. He hears the far-off clamor of the dogs.

INT. NAULS' QUARTERS

He, too, bothered by the noise, tosses and turns in his sleep.

INT. CLARK'S QUARTERS

Clark snores. MacReady has entered.

No response. MacReady nudges him. Clark rolls away, annoyed.

MacReady pinches his snoring nose, cutting off the air.

Clark sits up, groggy.

INT. TUNNEL

Clark, sleepy, irritated, makes his way down the freezing

corridor. The wind soughing loudly overhead.

CLARK

reaches the kennel door. The savage outpouring of noise from

within baffles and angers him. He unlatches the door.

Smack! Just as he opens the door, two dogs, as if jettisoned

from a cannon, knock him off his feet. Growls, barks, snarls.

And a screeching from within.

INT. KITCHEN

MacReady is fetching himself a beer. The sound of the far-

off screeching. He freezes. A beat. He turns and sprints.

HIS BEER CAN

as it smashes the glass of the fire alarm. He pulls the lever.

INT. TUNNEL

The alarm is blaring throughout the camp. MacReady, Garry,

Norris run through the narrow tunnel led by Clark.

MacReady carries a shotgun. Garry, half-dressed, has his

.44. Clark, a fire ax.

INT. HALLWAY

Chaos. Men, half-naked, bounce from their cubicle.

Pulling on their pants, digging into shoes.

INT. CHILDS' CUBICLE

Childs is grappling with his belt buckle.

Bennings is off.

INT. TUNNEL

as the men approach the locked kennel door. The two dogs,

thrown into Clark, back ferociously and scratch at the door

trying to get back in. One is badly bloodied.

The fight inside rages on. MacReady and Clark brace themselves

by the narrow door. Norris and Garry hold back the two

hysterical dogs. Clark undoes the latch and he and MacReady

enter the kennel.

The light has been broken and it is pitch black. MacReady

snaps on his flashlight. Norris and Garry can't contain their

animals and the dogs burst into the room. They smash into

MacReady and send him sprawling. Total confusion: the dogs;

the men; the screeching; the blackness.

MacReady gropes for his flashlight and rights himself. He

finds Clark. Then shines it around the cramped room trying

to get his bearings.

The light finds a mass of dogs in a wild melee in the corner.

Barking mixed with hissing, a gurgling, a screeching.

Dogs being hurled about and then charging back into the fray

with a vengeance.

The flashlight illuminates parts of some "thing." A dog.

But not quite. Impossible to tell. It struggles powerfully.

Garry pokes his head into the blackness.

MacReady aims his shotgun at the entire pack.

Clark wades into the pack, grabs at dogs' hides and throws

them back. He then wields his ax into the fray, chopping and

hacking away at the gurgling, hissing silhouette.

From out of nowhere, a large, bristly, arachnid-like leg

springs up and wraps around Clark's ax. It sends Clark

smashing violently into the wall.

OUTSIDE

More men running, nearing the kennel. Several squeezing in

with Garry, trying to get a look.

INSIDE

MacReady fires several rounds. A dog is flung at him, knocking

him and his flashlight once more to the ground.

Garry squeezes in and begins blasting away in the direction

of the hissing and screeching. A dog is hit. MacReady crawls

for his flashlight.

Blam. Blam. Garry continues firing at the silhouette.

INT. TUNNEL

Childs, huffing and puffing, lugs the huge industrial torch

toward the crowded kennel doorway.

INT. KENNEL

Childs scrunches in, disoriented by the blackness, and bumps

into Garry, knocking him off balance.

MacReady signals with his flashlight and then points it at

the gathering of snarling dogs.

Childs lets loose with a burst of blue flame. A mewing, a

screeching.

Part of the kennel starts to burn.

Childs moves closer, continuing his assault on the hissing,

gurgling presence.

Men charge into the room and begin spraying dogs and burning

walls. Dogs and men choke and cough amidst the smoke and

CO2.

The screeching lessens. The hissing and gurgling fade. Childs

turns off his torch.

INT. REC ROOM - NEXT MORNING

Those of the men that have gathered exhibit a pale and quiet

uneasiness.

Blair, in silent awe, stands over the badly burned corpses

of two interlocking dogs, that lie before him on a table.

They are connected as if they were one animal. Though, the

one wearing the remnants of Clark's bandage is much larger

and appears less dog-like. Its entire torso is cracked and

peeled, as if its innards were trying to burst out.

Odd appendages, recoiled and withered by the flame, are

wrapped grotesquely about both bodies.

Clark, his eyes set in glassy stare, sits in shock. Nauls

comforts him. Childs stands nearby smoking a joint and staring

at the floor.

Blair, transfixed, continues hovering over the united

cadavers. Weighing. Thinking. A very worried look on his

face.

The dead bodies of two other dogs from the kennel are not

far off.

INT. INFIRMARY

Fuchs is attending to the shredded bodies of three other

badly wounded dogs.

INT. REC ROOM

Nauls pats Clark on the shoulder and grins, trying to pick

up his spirits.

Clark turns to him with a childlike smile.

INT. SMALL WORKROOM

Norris is going through some maps. MacReady is bent over his

shoulder. Norris finds the one he's looking for.

Bennings pokes his head in the room.

INT. MAIN COMPOUND - MORNING

Station Manager Garry has joined Blair by the stuck-together

bodies. Blair motions to the bandage.

EXT. CHOPPER

high above the Antarctic expanse.

INT. CHOPPER

MacReady pilots. Young Palmer and Norris are with him.

It is clear but the winds are troublesome. The ride is a

shaky one. Norris refers to their map. He points.

They aim for a large mountainous wall. As they go up and

over... they see:

FLAT, GLACIAL EXPANSE

On the surface, an enormous blackened oval shape.

INT. U.S. OUTPOST #31 - LAB

All the bodies of the dogs have been brought in. Fuchs stands

by as Blair studies through his microscope.

INSERT - A MICROSCOPIC SAMPLING

of two cells. They appear to be much different from each

other. They are joined at the ends but are completing the

process of breaking off from each other.

ON BLAIR

A disturbed look on his face. He checks his watch, as if

timing the procedure.

EXT. GLACIER - TRACKING WITH MACREADY, NORRIS AND PALMER

as they walk along the ice. They come to a stop at the edge

of a sharp drop.

Pull back to reveal -- the massive black hole about fifteen

feet beneath the ice. Charred, gnarled and mangled metal are

all that is left of what was once an enormous sphere.

MacReady's and Norris' eyes meet each other in silence.

Palmer is in awe.

MacReady finds a burst thermite canister. He and Norris climb

down.

They move along amongst the wreck. Almost everything but the

skeletal superstructure has disintegrated into a fine ashy

powder.

Norris digs for ice samples at the perimeter of the wreckage,

while MacReady browses through the center.

Palmer continues to marvel, as he walks around the oval,

atop the ice.

MacReady returns and kneels down next to Norris as the latter

examines a piece of metal.

Norris shakes his head no.

Palmer calls out, waving them over.

EXT. GLACIER

The two men join Palmer about fifty yards from the oval.

A large rectangular chunk has been cut out of the ice. It is

fifteen feet long, six feet wide and eight feet deep.

MacReady kneels down to observe. A beat.

A gust of wind picks up the snow at their feet.

INT. REC ROOM - NIGHT

Fascinated, a few of the men are reviewing the Norwegian

video tapes of the finding of the mysterious craft.

MacReady sits quietly by his chess set contemplating a large

glass of Scotch. Clark, less interested than the others, is

flipping through the Norwegian nudie magazine.

Blair, looking worried, sits off in a corner, pondering the

photo of the block of ice and fingering a piece of crumbled-

up metal brought back from the site.

Childs, viewing the tapes, can't quite believe it all.

MacReady is not listening.

INT. KITCHEN

Nauls, about to prepare dinner, scowls as he rummages through

his many cabinets.

He turns to examine the cabinets above the large stove. He

spots something in the nearby kitchen trash can.

Disgusted, he pulls out a torn and shredded pair of long

johns.

INT. REC ROOM

MacReady theorizes.

Blair says nothing, lost in thought.

Palmer, stoned, a joint dangling from his mouth, is searching

for information through stacks of old issues of The National

Enquirer and The Star.

Palmer shakes a magazine at him adamantly.

Clark marvels at a particular photo.

Nauls skates into the room. He shakes the crumpled-up pair

of long johns in his fist.

He flings it across the room. It lands on MacReady's chess

set.

Nauls spins on his skates and storms off. MacReady fetches

the strangely shredded underwear and rolls it up, while Childs

paces.

MacReady tosses the ball of cloth across the room into a

trash bin.

A beat as Blair stares straight ahead, transfixed. He speaks

softly, to no one particular.

The men take in his grave countenance.

Blair turns to them. A pause. The men search his face.

INT. LAB - CLOSE ON A SHEET

as Blair rips it off exposing the tangled mess of interlocking

dogs.

Pull back. All the men have gathered. Some of the men settle

into chairs, others stand.

Silence.

Blair slams his fist on the slab.

Several of the men nearest the carcasses jump back knocking

over a chair.

EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT - CLOSE ON THE DOG CARCASSES

lying on the snow. Splash. They are being soaked with

gasoline.

Pull back. Fuchs is beside himself. Childs has the large

torch. MacReady empties another can on the bodies. Dr. Copper

stands nearby.

Childs lights the tip. Fuchs makes a determined move for the

torch.

Childs struggles with him for a beat and then flings him to

the ground. Dr. Copper grabs him preventing him from getting

back up.

Childs splays the remains with a jet of flame. Fuchs shakes

his head in frustration and disgust.

INT. KENNEL - NIGHT

The night feeding. Clark dishes out the food. Blair is taking

blood samples from the remaining three dogs.

A beat as Blair stares at Clark.

Clark seems uneasy under Blair's intense gaze.

Blair stands, his eyes still glued to Clark.

Blair's eyes glaze as if in revelation.

He backs out of the kennel.

INT. HALLWAY - COMPOUND

Irritated, distressed, station manager Garry moves briskly

down the hall. Blair, worried and pale, tries to keep up

with him.

Garry stops at the entrance to the communications room.

Sanchez shrugs.

Bennings interrupts, entering the hallway, referring to his

meteorological chart.

The men outside come stomping through the hallway.

Close on Blair, ashen-faced, falling silent. As if in a daze,

he watches the men as they continue to converse. Suspicious,

frightened.

EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT

Pitch black except for the barest of lighting which outlines

the building. Wind. The swirl of ice.

INT. MACREADY'S CABIN - NIGHT

Far away from the others, MacReady sits in his little hovel

putting the final screw into his mended chess set.

On the other side of the set, his busty, inflatable companion

has been propped up in a chair. His sombrero hangs down her

back, keeping her in place. Hawaiian music plays from his

tape deck.

He puts down his screwdriver, holds up his glass and offers

a toast with a big grin.

He clinks the drink he has made for her that rests on her

side of the board. He sips. He turns on the machine and makes

his first move.

The set answers for Esperanza.

He flips open the circuitry panel in disgust. He tosses his

screwdriver on the board and grabs his drink, downing it.

He reaches inside his ice bucket. Empty.

EXT. MACREADY'S CABIN - NIGHT

MacReady exits. He swacks at a nearby bank of ice with a

small ice pick.

The sound of a clanking. He turns his attention. Metal against

metal. Strange. MacReady listens. It appears to be coming

from far off below, near the camp.

MACREADY

as he makes his way down with the aid of the steadying ropes.

The clanking louder now. He senses the direction.

MACREADY

at the bottom near the main compound.  The sound has stopped.

He looks around in the near blackness.  A beat.

THE CHOPPERS

sitting idle in the dark. MacReady approaches. The door to

one of the cockpits is slightly ajar. He opens it cautiously.

INT. CHOPPER

MacReady slips in. He turns on a flashlight. The controls

have been mangled. Beaten with something heavy. Bang!!

MacReady, startled, turns. Like the sound of a gun. Coming

from the main compound.

INT. COMPOUND - MAIN ENTRANCE

Confusion. Shouts. MacReady enters. He grabs Palmer as he

and Bennings rush by.

HALLWAY - RADIO ROOM ENTRANCE

The men are on either side of the open radio room doorway.

Garry peeks his head in. A gunshot blast forces him back.

RADIO ROOM

Sanchez lies on the floor, groaning. Blair holds the gun on

the door. He wields a fire ax with the other hand and smashes

down on the radio.

HALLWAY

MacReady has joined the others.

Childs is off.

RADIO ROOM

Blair crunches the ax down once again, while keeping an eye

on the door.

BACK TO HALLWAY

BACK TO RADIO ROOM

He brings the ax down hard on the radio.

BACK TO HALLWAY

Childs runs up, out of breath.

Garry readies his large .357 Magnum.

Norris double-times down the hall.

MacReady turns the corner and into the rec room. He grabs

one of the thick card tables.

MacReady returns with the table to the hallway.

NORRIS

reaches the fuse box. He opens it.

HALLWAY

MacReady readies the table like a shield.

The lights go out. MacReady charges into the black room.

Blair fires. MacReady barrels into him, knocking him to the

ground. He pummels him with a right hand and manages to

control the gun.

The others dive in and pile on.

EXT. COMPOUND

Heavily-clothed, MacReady, Fuchs and Dr. Copper help a dazed

Blair to a toolshed some seventy-five yards from the main

compound.

INT. TOOLSHED

More spacious than MacReady's. Very livable. Two windows.

Blair has been placed on the cot. Dr. Copper injects him

with a sedative.

EXT. SHACK

Fuchs and MacReady nail boards over the windows.

Blair's droopy-eyed, heavily drugged features loom up at

MacReady through the window.

Blair's face disappears from the window.

EXT. COMPOUND - DAY

Harsh and grey. Getting very dark as winter takes a stronger

hold. Bennings is dumping the trash in a large hole in the

snow which acts as the trash dump.

Bennings finishes and drags the empty bins past Palmer and

Childs, who are fixing the wounded choppers.

INT. RADIO ROOM

The radio looks a mess. Norris and Sanchez, a bandage wrapped

around his head, examines the damage. He is in pain and still

looks a little groggy.

Norris smiles and pats him comfortingly.

INT. MESS HALL - MORNING

CLOSE ON A BUFFET OF EGGS, BACON, TOAST, ETC.

Pull back. The men help themselves. It is a cramped, elongated

room.

Dr. Copper approaches Nauls and hands him a capsule.

Clark comes running into the room, pallid, out of breath.

The men turn to look.

INT. THE KENNEL

Empty. Clark and Garry examine the latch of the kennel door.

EXT. COMPOUND ABOVE THE UNDERGROUND KENNEL

CLOSE ON THE DOGS' TRACKS in the snow. They lead from the

kennel's open stairwell and out onto the ice. All the men

have gathered.

MacReady is writing down what appears to be a list on a pad.

Garry and several others turn to MacReady quizzically.

MacReady hands his list to Bennings.

He puts his arm around Childs and pulls him along. The others

watch them walk off, a little bewildered.

Bennings is reading MacReady's list.

EXT. OUTDOOR WORK AREA - CLOSE ON THE BARREL

of the large torch. A fierce stream of flame bursts from its

nozzle.

Pull back. The stream has shot out some fifteen feet.

Childs has been modifying it.

CLOSE ON PALMER

as he works on the snowmobiles. Into frame rolls a wheelbarrow

on sleds. A box marked DYNAMITE is its most prominent article.

Pull back. Bennings reads off the list of supplies.

EXT. ANTARCTICA - ICESCAPE

The two vehicles rip across the hard, flat ice, bolstered by

the added horsepower. They follow the still visible dog tracks

in the snow.

THE SUN

sliding across the horizon, signaling midday. The snowmobiles

whoosh past. Bennings drives the one loaded with supplies.

MacReady and Childs double up on the other.

MACREADY

steadying his binoculars, while Childs drives, spots something

up ahead. The vehicles slow down and come to a halt. Something

lies just ahead of them in the whiteness, in the middle of

the dog tracks.

THE MEN

kneel down by the "something." It is the half-eaten remains

of a dog. Its hind legs and lower stomach picked clean. Its

ripped hide, flapping in the wind. Its top half missing.

MacReady follows the line of continuing dog tracks.

MacReady moves to the snowmobile and grabs a two-gallon can

of gasoline. He turns to Bennings.

A beat as MacReady takes this in. He pours the gas over the

remains and sets it aflame.

Childs and Bennings are not that anxious to continue.

MacReady gets on and revs up the engine.

Childs and Bennings return shrugs.

THE SUN

making its last pass, rolling off the horizon. Only a slight

orange hue left.

THE SNOWMOBILES

move slower, positioned on either side of the tracks. The

tracks abruptly change direction. The men come to a stop.

It is much colder now. Their beards, a mask of white powder.

MacReady surveys the new direction. They are headed toward a

far-off ridge of bluffs. Large, windswept mounds of ice.

THE SNOWMOBILES

as they move through a valley of newly-formed dunes and tall

ice cliffs. The last of the sun obscured, the headlamps are

turned on and pointed at the tracks.

The men look behind, in front, and from side to side, as

they proceed cautiously through the maze. Up ahead MacReady

spots:

A DOG

It sits, its back to them, unconcerned, heedless of their

arrival. It is munching on the other half of the dog carcass.

The men stop their machines some twenty yards from it. They

are hemmed in at the valley's narrowest point.

Childs, carrying the torch, and MacReady, armed with a

thermite bomb, wade awkwardly but carefully toward the animal

in their snowshoes. Bennings stands back by the snowmobiles.

Childs and MacReady spread out some dozen feet from the dog.

It continues to pay them no mind, content to chew its food.

Bennings surveys the tops of the snow bluffs that encircle

them with his flashlight.

No response. MacReady searches the near vicinity with his

light. All three are growing uneasy.

Childs turns on the gas and lights the tip.

Bennings is still watching the bluffs. Something from beneath

the snow reaches up and grabs his feet. He is ripped back

down through the hard snow in one incredibly powerful motion.

He screams, his head the only thing sticking out of the ice.

Childs and MacReady turn, confused, unable to see anything

be Bennings' screaming head. They rush toward him.

MacReady stumbles.

The sound of a snapping, a crackling to MacReady's rear.

He freezes; turns back to the dog. Its back is still to him;

its coat of hair sticking up like that of a porcupine. It

snarls; its face turns slowly toward him.

Its skin splitting; its mouth ripping open wildly.

Childs stops, confused as to who to help first. He notices

the dog hunched and ready to spring. He steps back toward

MacReady. The dog/Thing leaps for MacReady; an incredible

jump of some twenty feet.

Childs lets loose a blast, hitting the dog in midair; the

force of the spray knocking it back and tumbling to the ice

in flames.

MacReady throws his thermite canister. It discharges and

engulfs the screeching animal in fire.

BENNINGS

howling in pain. The ice underneath him thrashes violently.

Childs and MacReady stand by helplessly, unable to see what

has him or what action to take. Childs moves closer to help.

Bennings' head disappears with a sudden jerk through the

ice. The ice continues to rumble like boiling water, moving

in different directions. Part of Bennings' body pops up in a

different area and is just as quickly pulled back down.

MacReady and Childs watch on in frustration and anger.

Bennings' head and shoulders then surface near one of the

snowmobiles. Something has him. Unclear as to what. The jowls

of a dog. But huge. Bennings' heavy clothing begins to rip,

tear, as if his skin underneath was bulging out. The jowls

seem to be absorbing his head.

MacReady runs for the snowmobile.

Childs blasts away. The ice begins to melt as Bennings and

whatever has him catch fire. A screeching.

MacReady grabs cans of gas from the snowmobiles. Suddenly a

steel-like, arachnid-shaped arm shoots out in pain and with

incredible force pierces the fiberglass chassis of the

snowmobile. MacReady is knocked back. He recovers and dumps

cans of gasoline on the writhing mess.

He dives and rolls away from the lunging appendage.

He and Childs watch on as Bennings and The Thing roar in

flame. Behind them, the other dog/Thing continues to burn.

The screeching, mewing and gurgling wails on, all about them.

They look to each other in disbelief, their faces illuminated

by the flickering flames. The strident sounds beginning to

subside.

THE SUN

Its slim, orange arc sets, signaling the start of the Vernal

Equinox. And the beginning of six months of darkness.

INT. COMPOUND - REC ROOM

The men are interrogating Clark. He is frazzled and defensive.

Childs is holding the industrial torch directly in his face.

EXT. TRASH DUMP

MacReady, waist-deep in trash and snow, searches for

something.

INT. REC ROOM

The interrogation continues.

Childs grabs him by the collar and rips him off his chair.

Nauls steps between them.

Garry breaks it up, pulling them apart. MacReady enters from

the outside. A bundle is tucked under his arm.

MacReady moves over to the table.

Norris shakes his head, rubbing his chest in slight

discomfort.

MacReady pushes his sombrero back over his head.

He drops the bundle he had been holding on the table between

the men. It is the shredded pair of long johns.

The men look from one another. Silence. MacReady picks it up

and examines the label.

Clark stews.

The uneasiness in the room grows.

A pause as all eyes travel from man to man.

Norris turns to Dr. Copper and Fuchs.

Garry unhinges a key from his belt and hands it to Dr.

Copper. Dr. Copper and Fuchs head for the infirmary.

INT. INFIRMARY

The men rush in. Fuchs and Copper stand by the open plasma

storage refrigerator. The inside is a mess of dried blood.

The bladders have been ripped open. Copper is ghastly pale.

A horrified silence.

Sanchez twitches, terrified.

Several pairs of eyes turn to Garry.

Garry senses the nervous and inquiring eyes on him.

Silence as the men continue to stare. Sanchez is perspiring.

The eyes shift from Garry to Copper.

Sanchez bolts out the door. Stunned for a beat, the others

chase after him.

SANCHEZ

in terror, runs at top speed through the narrow corridors.

Opening and shutting doors. The others are in pursuit.

They shout for him to stop.

SANCHEZ

as he reaches a small armory. A glass case set into the wall.

A half dozen rarely used guns are inside. He tries the handle.

Locked.

He hears the clamor of feet and voices as the others are

nearing. He breaks the glass and grabs a shotgun. Then a box

of shells. He frantically tries to load, but is too nervous.

The others arrive at the end of the hallway. Garry pulls his

handgun and points.

No one doubts Garry's sincerity.

The other regard Garry tensely. No one oblivious to the fact,

that Sanchez just might be right.

Still trembling, he tosses the shells back into the broken

case, leans the gun against the wall and begins to sob.

Nauls skates over to comfort him.

The men watch as Garry lowers his gun. He turns to them.

He hands his gun to Norris.

Childs goes for the gun.

MacReady beats him to it.

Childs glares.

Roving eyes pass about the hallway. Nobody is sure who to

trust. MacReady seems as good as any.

INT. REC ROOM

The men have gathered to discuss plans. Furtive and

untrustworthy glances are passed around the room.

Childs points to Garry, Dr. Copper and Clark.

Fuchs nods.

Palmer is ignored.

Dr. Copper eyes his accuser solemnly.

EXT. COMPOUND - DARKNESS

It is the dead of winter. Six months of darkness ahead. Palmer

fights the cold as he works dismantling the engine of the

helicopter.

He frowns, searching for something.

INT. REC ROOM

Copper, Clark and Garry sit moodily together on a couch.

Norris awkwardly prepares to give them their injections.

He is new at this. Childs stands guard with his torch.

Dr. Copper offers to help.

EXT. COMPOUND

MacReady and Sanchez are foraging through the trash dump.

INT. RADIO ROOM

Norris has begun dismantling the radio. He rubs at his chest

as he disengages the headset.

INT. HALLWAY

Following Nauls as he skates through the labyrinth.

Checking waste bins. Pausing to look behind shelves and any

obscure hiding place.

MacReady passes him coming the other way.

INT. LAB

Fuchs is poring over a book. Several others lie open on his

desk.

MacReady pokes his head in the lab.

EXT. COMPOUND

A siren goes off, signaling the end of a twenty-minute period.

Sanchez pulls himself out of the trash dump.

Palmer carries a large part of a helicopter engine toward

the compound.

INT. COMPOUND

The hallway near the supply storage cubicle. MacReady holds

the door open as Palmer makes his way to him lugging the

heavy helicopter part.

Childs passes by from the other direction.

He passes by.

INT. SUPPLY STORAGE ROOM

Palmer sets down the heavy part. Norris follows him inside

with a bundle of radio gear. They move back out into the

hallway. MacReady locks the door behind them.

HALLWAY

The three move down the hall toward their appointed rendezvous

at the rec room.

INT. KITCHEN

Cramped. Several of the men are preparing their food.

Opening cans. Heating them in pots.

EXT. COMPOUND

Nauls wearily approaches Blair's tool shed with a tray of

food. He hears a pounding from within.

He peeks in through the opening in the boarded-up window.

Blair is nailing himself in from the inside. He looks pretty

crazed.

Nauls slides the tray in the slot. It is immediately shoved

back out and topples onto the ice. Some of the food has

splashed on Nauls' heavy coat.

Nauls picks up the tray, heads back mumbling.

EXT. COMPOUND

Palmer works on the snowmobile. Sanchez resumes searching

through the trash.

INT. BALLOON TOWER

MacReady slashes into the huge uninflated weather balloons,

rendering them useless. Tanks of helium and hydrogen are

stacked nearby.

INT. KITCHEN

Nauls does the dishes. His cassette plays in the b.g.

INT. REC ROOM

Childs continues guarding the three men.

Childs follows him to the other end of the room.

Clark walks to the head. Childs moves back to the middle of

the room. As the guard he is much more vulnerable in this

position. Being split between his prisoners.

The lights begin to flicker. The soft purr of the generator

begins to fade.

The lights go out. Nauls calls from the kitchen.

Dr. Copper giggles in the dark.

Childs lights the tip of his torch, allowing him a strong

candlelight. Garry is no longer in the room.

Dr. Copper looks numbly at the empty seat next to him. Childs

finds the portable siren and blares it.

EXT. COMPOUND

MacReady, Palmer and Sanchez heed the call and head for the

compound.

INT. REC ROOM

Childs jerks his head around in different directions.

INT. KITCHEN

Pitch black.

INT. HALLWAY

MacReady, Sanchez and Palmer come in from the outside.

They bump into each other trying to get their bearings from

the lack of light. Palmer, the only one who seems to have

one, turns on his flashlight.

INT. GENERATOR ROOM

Palmer and MacReady stumbling down the stairs. MacReady turns

around, looks.

Both look around. Sanchez is gone. Palmer's light finds the

motionless generator. He examines it.

MacReady dashes upstairs into the darkness.

INT. HALLWAY

The lab door is opened. Fuchs holding a small candle walks

out. As he passes, the shoulder of a man springs into frame.

INT. GENERATOR ROOM

Palmer is feverishly working underneath the generator on his

back.

INT. REC ROOM

The temperature continues to drop rapidly. Childs swats

himself to keep warm, while still keeping an eye on Dr. Copper

and the rest of the room.

INT. HALLWAY

MacReady rushes out of the supply room, with a fuel pump,

bumps into somebody.

The silhouette moves on down the hallway.

INT. GENERATOR ROOM

MacReady holds the flashlight for Palmer. Their breath, puffs

of white smoke.

The sound of a screeching. From somewhere in the compound.

The two men's faces, locked in fear.

INT. REC ROOM

The generator has been repaired; the lights within the

compound are back on.

Grim and tense. Everyone is present but Fuchs. Eyes flit

from man to man. Palmer, Nauls and Sanchez are spread out

about the room, keeping as much distance as possible from

the rest.

Norris and Childs are tying the Doctor, Clark and Garry to

the couch. MacReady prepares several makeshift blowtorches

as he kneels on the ground.

No answer as the men's faces roam the room. Childs glares at

Garry as he begins to tie him in.

Garry's groggy features stare blankly.

Garry struggles to his feet, affronted.

He grabs Childs by the collar.

Childs whales on him with a right hand. Both go tumbling

over the couch. MacReady and Norris dive in breaking it up.

MacReady, furious, pulls Childs away.

Norris breathing heavily from the activity, massages his

chest. The strong, stormy winds overhead batter the roofing.

MacReady glances up. He and Childs release each other.

He thrusts one of the blowtorches hard into Childs' stomach.

He tosses torches to Sanchez and Palmer.

Sanchez snaps his head toward Palmer. Palmer looks at the

others.

The men survey each other.

EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT

MacReady and Nauls, wearing their snowshoes and using flares

for light, pull themselves along the steadying rope that

leads to Blair's shed. They are careful to keep an eye on

each other as they move along.

Sanchez heads off in the direction of another shack.

INT. COMPOUND - HALLWAY

One of the many doors creak open. Childs and Palmer stealthily

move into the next corridor. Palmer falls a few steps behind.

Childs freezes and snaps his head around facing Palmer. A

beat.

Another beat.

He moves to the other side of the wall, parallel with Childs.

They continue on, skimming along the sides of the corridor

in plain view of one another.

EXT. COMPOUND

Nauls and MacReady arrive at Blair's shack. They peer in

through the spaces between the boards.

A weak light burns as Blair is seated eating out of a can. A

hangman's noose dangles from the ceiling nearby.

Blair jumps in fear, spilling his can.

Blair approaches the boarded-up window. He looks haggard and

afraid.

He and Nauls trudges off. Blair shouts after them.

INT. REC ROOM

Norris continues his watch on the sedated trio. He anxiously

tries to keep an eye on the various entrances behind and in

front of him. He rubs his chest in pain.

EXT. COMPOUND - THE SLOPE TO MACREADY'S SHACK

The winds are thick and vicious now. MacReady and Nauls pull

themselves along the rope fighting their way up the slope. A

violent gust sends MacReady's body horizontal, but still

hanging onto the rope. The wind slaps him back down. His

flare and torch tumble back toward Nauls.

Nauls saves the torch from rolling down the hill.

MacReady, lying vulnerable, watches Nauls pull his way toward

him. He tenses. Nauls reaches him. A beat. He hands back his

torch. Relieved, MacReady pulls himself upright.

INT. COMPOUND - KITCHEN - CLOSE ON THICK POWER CABLES

that line the wall. They have been torn apart. Childs and

Palmer examine.

EXT. MACREADY'S SHACK

as they reach the top. The remaining flare their only light.

Very dark. They stand on either side of the door. MacReady

shoves it open. Pitch black inside. MacReady flips the light

switch. Doesn't work.

INT. SHACK

They enter. Hunched. Torches ready. The place is a mess. The

winds as strong as on the outside.

The single flare illuminating the ceiling. Almost all of the

corrugated, steel roofing is gone. As if ripped off.

MacReady stares up incredulous, as they advance through the

room.

Nauls kicks over a chair. A naked, fleshy object bounds high

into the air. Nauls thrusts out his torch, catching the

breasts of the inflatable woman. She pops and is sucked out

through the hole in the roof.

Nauls tries to catch his breath.

INT. COMPOUND

Underground, rickety corridor. Palmer stands by as Childs

undoes the many locks to the room that houses his plants.

One by one. Palmer twists his head in every which direction.

Nervous.

Childs pulls open the heavy door. A flush of snow and wind

push them back. They wedge their bodies at the entrance to

the lightless room.

They enter. The light from the hall exposes the completely

smashed-in window high above the plants. The plants look

frozen.

Saddened, angry, Childs goes to check the damage to his

plants. Palmer, his face set in horror, yanks him back.

Palmer readies his small torch.

Palmer sprays them with flame. Childs pushes him to the

ground, and tries to swat out the fire.

Palmer, his mouth agape with terror, screams and points to

the closing door to their rear. Childs whirls.

FUCHS

One arm outstretched, swings into view. An ax, embedded deep

into his chest, pins his frozen body to the inside of the

door.

INT. REC ROOM

Norris startled by the scream, turns on the siren.

INT. PLANT ROOM

Sanchez has joined Childs and Palmer. The body of Fuchs is

still pinned to the door. Sanchez tries to wrench the ax

loose. It is too deeply embedded and won't budge.

Sanchez observes Childs' hulking frame and adds pointedly:

INT. PASSAGEWAY

Tracking with the three men. Opening and closing doors, as

they make their way back to the rec room. They keep their

distance from each other, watching each other while they

walk.

INT. COMPOUND - CLOSE ON PALMER'S FACE

shouting down a passageway.

CLOSE ON CHILDS

bellowing.

EXT. COMPOUND

A strong driftwind streams snow across the ground obscuring

everything but the very top of the buildings.

The siren screams.

INT. REC ROOM

Rigid, immobile faces. Listening to the storm overhead.

Silence, as the uneasy eyes measure one another.

VARIOUS ANGLES OF THE COMPOUND

Childs, Sanchez and Palmer -- closing off and bolting the

entrances to the camp.

INT. COMPOUND MAIN HALLWAY - POINT OF VIEW - THE MEN

Through the fogged-up windows, a figure can be seen

approaching the main compound. It pulls and drags its way

along the guide rope, fighting the gale force winds.

THE MEN

weapons in hand, huddle at the main doorway. They unbolt it.

Sleet and hail send Nauls rolling in from the outside. The

men force the door back and lock it.

The weary Nauls kneels on the floor and gasps for air.

The others surround him.

Nauls weighs each of them ominously, while digging down

underneath his heavy jacket.

He pulls out a thick bundle of heavy clothing. It is mutilated

and partially burned. He holds out the jacket to show the

inside collar.

Close on name tag -- it reads: R.J. MACREADY The men, as

they examine in a hush.

The men continue to examine in various states of disbelief.

Childs and Norris separate them.

A pounding at the door sends the men jerking backward.

Nauls scampers to his feet. They tense.

No answer as the men surround the door, their weapons ready.

Fear.

The men keep their voices low.

More pounding.

The muffled breaking of a window down the hall. The men turn.

INT. SUPPLY ROOM

Pitch black. MacReady's voice is heard cursing as he appears

to be stumbling around, looking for a light switch. He

responds to the muffled voices at the door.

HALLWAY

Palmer stands by as Childs tries the knob. Locked.

Childs rips a nearby fire ax off the wall and begins hacking

away at the door.

INT. SUPPLY ROOM

MacReady begins to rummage through the supplies in the

darkness.

Childs chops away. MacReady desperately continues rummaging

through the supplies.

HALLWAY

Childs cautions to Palmer as he prepares for one last blow.

Crunch. The door gives. The men move in. Their blow torches

ready. They freeze.

MacReady stands before them holding a lighted flare. His

hair and clothing are covered with snow; his cheeks and nose

blackened by frostbite. Tucked under his arm is an entire

box of dynamite. He holds the flare dangerously close to the

open box.

He appears to mean it. They don't seem anxious to test him.

They do. He follows them out into the hall.

HALLWAY

The men step backwards carefully.

They heed, retreating further down the hall. MacReady glances

behind him.

Nauls and Norris, who have silently crept in through the

supply window, come flying through the hacked-up door and

barrel into MacReady. Both going straight for the flare.

MacReady spins Nauls off and rips into Norris, sending him

crashing violently into the wall. Nauls tackles MacReady's

legs, pulling him to the floor.

The others rush him. MacReady, still in control of the

dynamite and flare, bellow:

They skid to a halt. Nauls crawls away, quickly.

Norris, lying on the floor, coughs as if gasping for breath.

He quivers for a moment and then is still. Nauls crawls over

to him and shakes him. A beat.

Nauls listens to Norris' chest. MacReady stands.

INT. INFIRMARY

Norris' body is plopped on the examination table. Copper

stumbles and is steadied by some of the men. MacReady

continues to keep his distance.

Copper places an oxygen mask over Norris' face. He then rips

open his shirt.

Copper begins swathing Norris' chest with a gelatin substance.

Sanchez pushes over the portable fibrillator. Copper climbs

up on the table and straddles Norris' chest.

Unnoticed, Clark paws the contents of the instrument tray

behind his back.

They do so. Copper holds electrical prongs over Norris' chest.

Sanchez depresses the "on" button.

Dr. Copper presses the prongs onto Norris' chest and shoots

a bolt of current. Norris' body heaves upward. A slight

crackling sound and an odd chirp through the oxygen mask.

Buzzz. Several more jolts from the prongs. Clark's hand has

found a scalpel. He gently lifts it out, bringing it to his

side.

Norris' body begins bounding up. More crackling and popping.

His chest begins to break up and spread. The mask pops off --

a hideous mewing escaping from Norris' distorted mouth.

The men jump back, incredulous. Dr. Copper scrambles off his

chest and flops to the floor.

They watch on in stunned horror as The Thing that was Norris

begins to change, to spread awkwardly on the slab.

Its clothes tearing. A shoe splits in half and falls to the

floor, exposing the beginnings of a talon.

MacReady charges toward it, shooing the men off.

He unloads with a stream of flame. The body writhes in pain,

belching and hissing. The slab catches fire. It struggles,

lunges for the floor, straightens up, and moves a few feet.

A black and yellow substance rips through its trousers and

squirts to the floor. Norris' body collapses on the

fibrillating machine in flames. Extinguishers are ripped

from the walls and put to work.

MacReady watches the smoking particles of ooze in fascination,

as they twitch and mew on the floor.

Within seconds the fire is out. The men stand around in awe

as they look upon The Thing that was once Norris.

MacReady continues to observe the small particles. Their

tiny squeals abating into silence.

INT. REC ROOM

MacReady, still carrying the industrial torch, has maneuvered

all the men into the room. He holds Garry's .44. He has

untaped the explosives from his chest and laid them on the

nearby table next to two more boxes of dynamite.

He tosses a ream of steel cable and some rope to Palmer.

MacReady points the .44 at Childs' head.

MacReady cocks his gun. Childs holds his ground.

A beat. Clark springs for MacReady. Scalpel raised.

MacReady spins and fires three shots, point-blank, the forces

of the charges sending Clark flying backwards. The others,

themselves about to pounce, stop -- as MacReady whirls the

torch and gun back toward them.

THE MEN

being tied securely to couches and chairs.

MacReady turns on a Bunsen burner while he cuts the rubber

covering off an electrical cord, exposing the copper wire.

All the while, he keeps his eye on the men.

Copper starts to tie Palmer to the small couch next to Childs

and Garry.

SANCHEZ

grimacing as Dr. Copper pinches a scalpel to his thumb and

collects a small portion of his blood in a dish.

All the men have been tied up. Palmer, Childs and Garry on

the small couch. The others, including the lifeless corpse

of Clark, in chairs.

Copper returns the plate to the table and sets it down in

line with the other plates of blood that he has collected.

The names of each man have been scribbled onto the plates.

MacReady slides the Doctor a fresh plate.

Copper cuts his thumb, his blood dribbles onto the plate.

He stands nervously for a beat.

Copper pushes it toward MacReady.

Copper steps backward, moisture beginning to collect on his

brow. MacReady begins to heat the copper wire over the Bunsen

burner.

The men watch intently. The wire begins to glow. MacReady

points the torch directly at the Doctor. Both of them

perspiring. MacReady lifts the glowing wire from the flame.

The Doctor is dead still. MacReady slowly touches the wire

to the Doctor's plate. A soft hiss.

MacReady heats it again and tries once more. The same soft

hiss. MacReady and the Doctor both let out a sigh.

He hands Copper the torch.

He cuts himself with the scalpel and begins collecting his

own blood.

He heats the wire and puts it to his plate. The same harmless

hissing. All eyes continue to watch as he tries again. The

same result. Childs mumbles.

He heats the wire and lays it in Clark's dish. The hissing.

MacReady nods.

MacReady glances over the group.

He sets Palmer's plate in front of him and heats the wire.

Screech!!! The blood howls, trying to crawl off the plate.

Palmer bolts forward with incredible force, racing for

MacReady; his face splitting; his mouth roaring -- dragging

the couch, Childs and Garry with him. He smashes into MacReady

knocking him over the table.

It's all happened too fast. Copper tries to get off a burst

of flame. The ever-changing Palmer breaks his bonds and leaps

on the Doctor.

The others sit helpless, struggling at their bindings.

MacReady dives on Palmer's back and the three go rolling to

the floor. Screeching. Crackling. MacReady pounds viciously

at Palmer's head. A powerful, shirt-splitting arm sends him

skidding across the floor.

Copper momentarily has control of the torch. Just as he

positions it, Palmer's mouth splits from his chin to his

forehead and engulfs the entirety of the Doctor's head.

The big torch slaps against the wall. Palmer bounds to his

feet, wrapping his arms around the dangling, struggling body

of Dr. Copper.

The men are screaming hysterically. MacReady tries to fire

up the bruised torch. Busted. Won't work.

Frustrated, he charges up behind Palmer and begins hammering

the thick steel instrument over his head.

The shirt of Palmer's back erupts in MacReady's face.

Splitting and ripping wildly, exposing the beginnings of yet

another orifice. A blackened, iron-strong tongue lunges

outward. Stunned, MacReady manages to elude it, diving for

the top of the table by the boxes of dynamite.

MacReady lights the fuse of a thick roll and bounds from the

table. Palmer awkwardly spins in circles, swinging the

Doctor's body like a propeller blade, struggling to keep on

balance, as he advances on MacReady. The second orifice,

spitting and snarling as it continues to take form.

MacReady waits until Palmer's back spins around, facing him.

Only two yards away, MacReady flings his lit roll into the

ever-evolving second mouth and leaps onto the couch covering

Childs and Garry with his body.

A muffled boom, as the swallowed explosive ignites from deep

within Palmer and sends his flesh splattering all over the

room. MacReady rolls away from Childs and Garry as fast as

he can.

MACREADY

perspiring profusely, his hand trembling slightly, prepares

to continue the test. He heats the wire.

The men are pouring sweat, white-knuckled.

One of the smaller torches is pointed at Nauls. He closes

his eyes. MacReady places the heated wire into his plate.

Hiss. MacReady exhales. Nauls opens his eyes.

MacReady unties Nauls with one hand, while the torch stays

glued to the others.

MacReady heats the wire once again. Both he and Nauls have

torches aimed at Sanchez. Sanchez is near tears.

The wire is dipped into the plate... Hisssss.

Sanchez breaks down and sobs.

CHILDS

sits stoicly, while he watches the preparations for his turn.

Nauls and Sanchez take aim five yards away. Fierce,

determined. The wire comes off the flame into the plate...

the harmless hissing.

The muscles in Childs' face melt into a sigh.

ALL EYES

snap towards station manager Garry. Childs, suddenly realizing

who he is sitting next to, squirms.

Nauls rips away his bindings. The other two stand guard.

Childs scrambles off the couch and onto the floor.

GARRY

stares grimly ahead. Childs soaks his clothing with a can of

gasoline. He is then surrounded. The room tenses, adrenalin

pumps, breathing halts.

The burner. The torches. The wire. The plate. Garry's face.

Hisssss.

MacReady tries again. Hiss. The men breathe. Their torches

are lowered. Nauls throws his on the floor.

Sanchez and Childs flop down in chairs. MacReady wipes his

face.

A long silence. Sanchez weeps quietly with relief.

A beat. Childs starts to giggle. The strain on MacReady's

jaw begins to lessen. Garry sits catatonic. Nauls scowls at

Childs' uncontrollable laughter.

The infectious rasping causes MacReady a slight smile as he

looks up, taking comfort in the sound of the raging Antarctic

wind vibrating the roof. Nauls, untying Garry, grumbles, at

Childs.

Childs wipes his eyes and grins over toward MacReady. His

smile fades, MacReady is now stone-faced. Childs' grin goes

stale, in sudden realization.

EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT

The wind rumbles. The storm is at its peak. MacReady, Childs

and Nauls, guided by their flares, pull themselves along the

steadying rope, headed, for Blair's shack.

BLAIR'S SHACK

The door is wide open. They pause by the entrance, trying to

balance against the wind. They enter.

INT. BLAIR'S SHACK

Empty. A few of the floorboards are loosened. They pull them

up. They stare down into a large hole beneath the planking.

Something is down there. They pull up more boards.

The hole is some fifteen feet deep. Its dimensions are the

same as the shack. Its space is almost completely taken up

by some strange metallic object.

Crudely fashioned, a patchwork job, but streamlined.

Sheets of corrugated steel are visible; but cut apart and

welded into the desired shapes. The object appears to be

unfinished.

MacReady pulls out a dozen tightly wrapped sticks of dynamite.

Far off, amidst the howling gale -- the screeching. The men

jump. MacReady lights the fuse, as they make it to the exit.

He tosses it in.

EXT. COMPOUND ALONG THE ROPE

The explosion echoes behind them. The men pull along. Their

heads jerk in circles, searching into the blackness.

Some twenty yards to their rear something swooshes down,

severing the line. The wind sends the men tumbling along the

ice. Childs loosens the line and is blown away, rolling out

of sight.

MacReady and Nauls have lost their torches. They pull

feverishly along the ground trying to make it to the compound.

The screeching closes in behind them. MacReady loses his

grip on the rope and is blown toward the main building.

He crawls along looking for an opening.

Nauls slides near the outside entrance to the dog kennel.

He climbs down through the open stairwell.

INT. PLANT ROOM

MacReady has found the broken window. He rolls through it,

landing on the frozen plants below. Something smashes at the

glass above his head, trying to get in. He sprints for the

door. Fuchs' frozen body is still pinned to it with the ax.

MacReady grapples with the stiff torso which blocks the knob.

He finally gets it open and lets himself out, slamming and

locking the door from the hall. Fuchs' body swings eerily,

back and forth.

INT. HALLWAY

MacReady charges up the stairs from the plant room. He zooms

down the twisting corridors, opening and closing doors. He

rounds a bend and crashes into Nauls coming the other way.

INT. REC ROOM - CLOSE ON SANCHEZ

pouring gasoline into empty bottles, preparing Molotov

cocktails.

Garry is connecting an electrical device: wires attached to

two portable generators. MacReady appears to be injecting

something into empty contact capsules. The men work

feverishly.

Nauls rushes in with another box of dynamite.

Nauls begins cutting the wicks off the dynamite.

The wind belts into the roofing overhead. Garry sets the

wiring to the main doorway. MacReady begins blocking off one

of the other entrances with a large computer.

They block off a door with two heavy electrical games.

Nauls starts lacing his skates.

MacReady further barricades the door with small couch.

Sanchez and Nauls start to leave.

He dispenses the capsules.

A grim silence.

INT. CORRIDOR

Sanchez and Nauls inch their way through.

INT. REC ROOM

MacReady rips linen, soaks the strips in gas, and stuffs

them in the Molotov bottles. Garry tests the current on the

door. Popping, sparks, smoke.

INT. KITCHEN

Nauls pushes a stove, reinforcing a locked door. Five yards

away, Sanchez maneuvers the refrigerator in front of another

outlet.

Sanchez hears a quiet purring, bubbling sound. He turns to

Nauls.

A blaring. They whip their attention to stereo speakers on

either side of the kitchen. Rock music screams out. Top

volume.

INT. REC ROOM

The same loud music. MacReady and Garry look to the three

speakers attached to the walls. MacReady yells his

incomprehension to Garry. Garry tries to respond. Their voices

drowned out.

INT. HALLWAY

Empty. Another of the stereo speakers that line the walls,

thunders.

INT. KITCHEN

Nauls, in sudden realization, screams over the din and points

back in the direction they came.

INT. REC ROOM

MacReady, cursing, rips the speakers off the wall.

The music is now subdued within the room, but continues

booming throughout the camp. Nauls' scream can be barely

heard.

INT. KITCHEN - NAULS

at the top of his lungs...

A sharp, red, talon-like fingernail, pierces the top of the

door above Nauls' head. It saws downward, quickly.

Black goo drips through the slit. The sawing obscured by the

music.

Sanchez, eyes bulging, points. Nauls turns. A claw rips

through the wood. Nauls dives to the floor.

In the opposite direction, behind Sanchez, another arm splits

through the door and the refrigerator, extends itself five

feet and yanks Sanchez back as if he were a puppet.

Sanchez struggles, looking imploringly at Nauls. He bites

down on his capsule. Nauls takes off like a speed skater.

INT. REC ROOM

The sound of the screeching over the music.

He opens the door. Looks down the hall. No one. The speakers --

blaring music.

NAULS

full speed down the maze. Left. Right. Totally reckless. He

hits a straightaway.

SANCHEZ'S BODY

from out of nowhere, blasts through the hallway wall, directly

in Nauls' path. A thick arm pins the body to the other side.

Unable to stop, Nauls skids out of control, banging into the

sides of the wall, his cyanide capsule flying out of his

mouth.

Whatever the rest of it is, it starts to crumble through the

wall. Nauls dives over the arm, somersaults to his feet and

takes off.

INT. MAIN HALL

MacReady, running, spots Nauls careening out of a turn,

heading toward him.

Nauls blazes by him. MacReady hears the snarls and screeches

heading his way. He streaks after Nauls.

INT. REC ROOM

They make it in. Lock the door... MacReady tries to catch

his breath. Nauls shakes, pants.

Garry fiddles with the two generators.

The loud music in the compound is turned off. MacReady shuts

off the lights. The men spread out. Silence.

INT. REC ROOM

The men watch all the doors. Dead silence. Dark. Whispers.

The sound of a door opening and closing. Far off.

Another creaking door is opened. A rustling. Still far off.

MacReady and Nauls spread further apart.

The soft bubbling, cooling sound. A slight scratch at the

door. Garry's hand tightens around the generator switches.

The scratching gets more pronounced. MacReady cautions Garry

with a whisper.

The door begins to pound from the outside. Nauls and MacReady

light two cocktails each.

The door booms. The room's foundations shake. The ceiling

quivers. The gas bombs are cocked.

From the roof The Thing roars down into their midst.

Stunned, the men stumble back. MacReady throws his gas bomb.

Nauls the same.

For a moment it stands silhouetted in flame. Enormous.

Grotesque.

Garry bolts for the main door. The Thing's tongue spirals

from his mouth and spears him. The good two-thirds of its

body follows its tongue and engulfs Garry by the door.

Another leg slaps Nauls to the ground. MacReady dodges still

another appendage, dives on the generators and throws the

switch.

The current rips through the door. Garry dies instantly.

One of The Thing's talons, still caught in the door, sends

it writhing in pain. It literally rips the door from its

latchings and pounds it to the ground, trying to shake it

loose. Nauls, hobbles, scrambles, out of the opening.

MacReady dives through the window and out into the storm.

INT. COMPOUND - HALL

The distant sound of a motor. Nauls, battered and bloodied,

his leg apparently broken, crawls along the ground. Another

sound, a bubbling and gurgling is heard well to his rear.

But closing.

The terror forces him to drag faster, oblivious to the pain.

He reaches the bathroom stall. Crawls in. Locks it. The

gurgling nears. Leaning on the toilet seat, he looks about

himself, frantically.

The Presence pauses at the door. A scratching. Nauls paws,

rips at a cracked and weathered slab of wood, cutting his

fingers as he tries to break it off the siding.

A strong blow begins to breach the stall door. Nauls finally

unhinges the piece of wood, brings the jagged end to one

side of his throat and rips...

INT. LAB WALL

The motorized rumbling nears. The wall seems to explode. The

tractor barrels into the lab. Its enormous shovel scooper

tearing half the room to shreds.

MacReady drives. His eyes glint like a wild man's; he looks

stark raving mad.

His frostbite, now in an advanced stage, resembles black war

paint. He clenches a stick of dynamite between his teeth,

like a buccaneer's cutlass. Two large, compressed air tanks

have been tied together at the top and are draped around his

neck. They are marked -- HYDROGEN.

They are used for the weather balloons.

He pulls the tractor to a stop, yanks the stick from his

mouth, grins and bellows.

MacReady guns it through the next wall and into the infirmary.

Medical equipment goes flying. The machine is powerful; the

prefabricated walls buckling under its force.

INT. COMPOUND

A trail of viscous yellow ooze leads around a bend.

Boom.

MacReady rams into the mess hall, sweeping away tables,

chairs. He sings out loud the lyrics of some Mexican song.

All the while he keeps his eyes on everything.

Through the kitchen. The foundation is crumbling. He sings

on.

NARROW PASSAGEWAY

Gurgling and hissing. A taloned arm slinks around a corner

in retreat.

MACREADY

plows through several more rooms before ending up in the pub

area. He backs it up and retrieves a bottle of liquor from

the bar.

He takes a drink and rams through another wall.

INT. REC ROOM

The tractor blazes into the rec room. MacReady parks it

directly in front of the hole in the roof, created by The

Thing when it surprised them earlier.

He pulls off the heavy hydrogen tanks and drapes them over

the tractor. As he talks his eyes move like a hawk passing

from roof, to doorways, to rubble.

Wind and ice bristle through the gaping holes, stinging

MacReady with the cold. He winces at his mittenless, blackened

fingers.

He takes a swig from his bottle.

A slight tremor perks his eyes and ears. He looks up through

the hole, then around. He lights a lighter and cups it in

his hand near the stick of dynamite in his lap.

A stronger tremor. The adrenalin pumps.

The floor shakes. MacReady stands, his head whirling around

the room.

The tractor inches up off the ground. MacReady falls forward

and looks straight down through the chassis and into the

vile and grinning face below. A claw flashes up, splitting

the steering wheel but missing his face.

He depresses the ignition, bolting the tractor ten feet.

He jumps, hanging onto the edge of the hole in the ceiling.

The Thing's face and arms burst through the metal plating of

the tractor. The reaching claws just miss him as he pulls

himself through.

EXT. ROOF

He lights his fuse, drops in the stick, turns and runs.

Half of The Thing's grotesque and angular torso bolts up

through the hole, howling in fury. An appendage springs

outward and winds around MacReady's jacket, hissing like

acid into the fabric.

An immense explosion. The hydrogen tanks send a white fireball

fifty feet into the sky. The Thing's body disintegrating

almost immediately.

The force of the blast sweeps MacReady off the roof. He and

the severed appendage crash to the hard ice in flames. He

rolls over and over trying to smother the fire and tear off

the insidious limb.

INT. CAMP

A ruin. One half of it burnt almost to the ground.

MacReady wears a thick blanket which covers him like a shroud,

from his shoulders to the floor.

He walks bent over and in much pain, trying to blunt patches

of fire with an extinguisher. It is futile. He gives up.

INT. PUB AREA

Mostly untouched by the fire, but like most of the rest of

the camp, exposed to the outside. The storm has settled

considerably.

CLOSE ON MACREADY

lighting a cigar. His hands are heavily wrapped. He pours

himself a drink.

A puffy white hand, missing two fingers, enters the frame

and whirls a startled MacReady around. It is Childs.

White and black blotches cover his frostbitten face.

He looks as weak as MacReady. A beat.

Both men speak guardedly and stare at each other suspiciously.

Childs steps back, keeping his distance. He indicates his

puffy white hand.

MacReady, carrying the bottle and glass, limps over and sits

down behind a gaming table. There is a chess set and several

decks of cards. The two men continue to eye each other.

MacReady begins setting up a non-electronic chessboard.

MacReady puffs on his cigar. He reveals a small blowtorch

from under the table and places it beside him on top.

They regard each other for a moment. Childs painfully sits

down across from MacReady.

MacReady grins and hands the bottle to Childs. Childs smiles

back and takes a healthy swig.

EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT

The fires smolder on. Bright embers dance in the blackness --

pushed by the soughing wind.

