She looks out at the passing landscape as they cruise south

on the interstate. The road is wet, though the snow hasn't

yet started to stick.

She looks up, catches him shooting irritated looks her way.

He doesn't finish the thought, just chokes back whatever he

was about to say. Focuses on the highway ahead.

She hangs up, aims the camera phone lens his way, and snaps

another digital picture of him.

She puts the cellphone away, looks up to see him glaring at

her.

He darkens, mutters under his breath:

They ride in silence for a moment. She tries to strike up a

conversation, by way of extending an olive branch.

They drive for a few moments in silence.

He looks at her expectantly, as if she should remember him.

She hoots with laughter. But he's not kidding.   He seems

surprised by her response.

She enjoys the pained look of surprise on his face, lets him

twist for a second before explaining:

He looks out at the road, reciting Nietzsche from memory:

She looks at him as if he's nuts.   A beat, then:

He stares grimly at the road ahead, biting back a comment.

She turns on the radio, finds a station with Christmas music.

TITLE CARD ON BLACK:

The Oldsmobile passes slower-moving VEHICLES and zooms by.

Its interior light is on.

Her bare feet are propped on the dash, as she removes the old

nail polish.

Widen. She's turned the front seat into a nail salon.

Cotton balls, emery boards, bottles of clear and colored

varnish are strewn everywhere.

She picks a bottle, opens it, begins painting her nails.

She looks up from her feet, giving him a funny look.

His eyes linger on her freshly painted toes on the dashboard.

She catches him staring.   He blushes, embarrassed.   Says:

An awkward beat.

She frowns.

He gets a cornered look.

He breaks off, saved by the sight of a gas station up ahead.

She looks at him across the dark front seat, suspicious.

A florescent oasis in the gathering dark. A tow truck and

several old wrecks rusting in the weeds surrounding it.

The Oldsmobile pulls off the highway and up to a gas pump.

LATER

He starts the pump.   Notices her still seated in the car.

He knocks on her window.    She opens the door.

He looks over the roof of the car, sizing up the distance

across the slushy parking lot.

He opens her door, pulls her legs around, and crouches down

between them.

Suddenly he's rising and she throws her arms instinctively

around his neck.

Unsettling as the deeply-weird moment is, she decides it's

best to just humor him. But first -

He crouches a little so she can reach to retrieve it.

The door JINGLES as he enters, carrying her.   His face is red

from effort, hers from embarrassment.

He just stands there.   She taps him on the shoulder.

He crouches so she can slide off. She gives him a look,

slips on the pair of flip-flops she's brought with her, then

heads off in search of the ladies bathroom.

Meanwhile, our guy saunters up toward the front of the

convenience store. He nods to the twitchy CLERK, 20s,

engrossed in a tattoo fetish magazine behind the counter.

The toilet is gross, tiled a queasy green, graffiti-covered.

Our girl finishes peeing, gets up from the toilet, uses her

foot to flush and her elbow to turn on the faucet. She

washes her hands, holding them under the automatic dryer.

Broken.

She wipes her hands dry on her jeans. Is about to exit when

she catches sight of her reflection in the dirty mirror.

On impulse she takes out her glasses from her purse.   Slips

them on. Checks herself out in the mirror.

Cool? Sexy?

With her glasses on she notices something scratched into the

dirty mirror.

CLOSE ON MIRROR

Where we see:

She frowns, slips her glasses back in their case and moves to

exit. But when she grips the doorknob she finds it LOCKED.

She frowns. Rattles the doorknob a few times.

A look of panic crosses her face, and she starts rattling the

doorknob harder. Did someone lock her in?

Suddenly the doorknob comes off in her hand.

She pounds on the door with the heel of her palm, shouts:

Nothing.

She turns, scanning the filthy bathroom, notices something.

HER POV:

A VENT above the sink, near the ceiling.

BACK TO SCENE

She puts a foot up into the sink, testing it to see if it can

take her weight. Then climbs up and straightens on wobbly

legs, until her face is near the filthy dust-clogged vent.

Her voice ECHOES weirdly. When the echoes die down she hears

something from the vent that makes her scowl: LAUGHTER. As if

our guy and the clerk are having a good laugh at her expense.

Pissed off now, she climbs back down, and attacks the broken

doorknob with renewed urgency.

And finally succeeds in getting the door to open.

As she exits she sees the CLERK and our guy talking quietly,

as if they know one another. She hesitates for a second,

spying on them around a display of chips. Suspicious.

AT THE COUNTER:

She strides up as the guy pays for the gas and a couple

bottles of water.

He gathers up the bottled water, heads toward the door.    The

clerk calls to him:

She frowns, following him to the exit.

He holds the door for her, then follows her outside.

As they exit and start toward the car she offers him a

twenty. He looks at the money, as if he's never seen U.S.

currency before.

Since when are they friends?

They separate, walking around to their respective sides of

the car. She tries the passenger door handle, only to find

it stuck.

She rolls her eyes, waits for him to open it from the inside.

She stares out at the road ahead, lulled by the sound of the

windshield wipers sweeping snowflakes from side to side.

HER POV:

A nondescript exit comes up fast for a side road. Which

wouldn't be cause for alarm or even interest except-

He suddenly turns the wheel sharply, taking the exit.

The car veers off the interstate onto a much smaller two-lane

road marked with a simple sign, paint-on-wood, faded to

illegibility: Scenic Route 606.

The tires crunch across an old chain which had once prevented

access to the road but is now half-buried in the snow.

Attached to it is a diamond-shaped warning sign of a more

modern vintage reading: Rough Road.

She falls against him, bracing herself against the dash.

He looks a little pissed she's questioning his judgment.

Hard to argue with a shortcut...

Nonetheless, she glances back with a look of trepidation OUT

THE BACK WINDOW at the highway receding into the distance.

The Oldsmobile cruises by, the only car on the two-lane

scenic highway.

As it leaves FRAME camera PANS to the dead grass on the

roadside where it finds a sad little SHRINE half-buried in

the snow: two homemade crosses, candle stumps, a rotting

stuffed bear, deflated Mylar balloons.

Scrawled on the crosses are:

She watches him suspiciously out of the corner of her eye.

His face is eerie in the green light of the dashboard.

He scans the radio dial for something other than static.

He switches over to AM. Finds a low-wattage mountain station

broadcasting Bobby Helms' 1957 "Jingle Bell Rock."

Then he drives in silence.   Still stewing over her most

recent digs.

She gazes out the window at night overtaking the landscape.

She turns from the window to look at him, scowling.

HEADLIGHTS suddenly appear up ahead, blindingly bright.

She turns to look ahead, momentarily forgetting their fight

as the oncoming headlights cross the median into their lane.

From a high angle overlooking the road we watch the two cars

racing toward one another, headed on a collision course.

For the time being their fight has taken a back seat to the

oncoming car playing chicken with them.

He's right. On the passenger side the road abuts a steep

wooded hillside. Opposite that it drops off into a ravine.

They are both too distracted by the ONCOMING HEADLIGHTS to

notice the Christmas SONG that's just come on the RADIO:

Brenda Lee's 1958 hit "Rockin' Around the Christmas Tree."

The distance between the SPEEDING CARS is closing rapidly.

The kids faces go white in the glare of the oncoming lights.

The OTHER CAR continues barrelling toward the OLDSMOBILE.

The game of chicken fast approaching the point of no return.

Relief turns to dread as they realize the other car isn't

slowing.

He jerks the wheel hard, sending the Oldsmobile fishtailing

out of control.

The OTHER CAR skids over a small bridge and drops out of

sight.

They spin out in the opposite direction. Skid off the road

and SLAM into a snowbank with a bone-shuddering CRASH.

TITLE CARD ON BLACK:

The Oldsmobile has ended up on the opposite roadside facing

the wrong way, its driver's side jammed into a snowbank.

Snow boils in its headlights.

The interior is dark.

The girl has been thrown under the dash. It's hard to tell

in this light whether she's still breathing.

Finally she stirs, disoriented.

She climbs back into her seat, piecing together where she is.

It takes her a beat to remember him. She looks over slowly.

He's not moving, though thanks to his seatbelt he's still

upright behind the wheel. His head rests limply against the

driver's window, which now looks out on nothing but snowbank.

A link of blood trickles down the glass.

Dead?

She's not taking any chances. Without a sound she slips into

her shoes, coat. Gropes for her cellphone among the detritus

at her feet.

Suddenly he stirs, groaning.

She freezes.

The seconds ticking by on the DASHBOARD CLOCK.

When he doesn't wake, she resumes fumbling for her cell.

Finds it.   Then eases open the creaky passenger door.

And launches herself into the frigid night.

She hurries down the road away from the car. Breath clouding

in the frigid air. Punches in numbers on her cell phone.

INSERT CELLPHONE SCREEN --

No SIGNAL BARS.

She's starting to freak now.   She hits the REDIAL button.

Suddenly, from behind --

She screams, spins around.

He's standing right behind her, his face in silhouette.

He receives this news with a strange calm.

He puts his hand to the left side of his skull and pushes on

it. Like someone testing a melon for ripeness.

Come to think of it, his speech is a little wooden.

She watches as he turns and takes a few aimless steps away.

She's completely forgotten all about the other vehicle until

now. She turns to look, puzzled.

There's no sign of the other vehicle anywhere. They're alone.

She looks, sees an unbroken expanse of fresh white snow.

The mystery of the missing tracks seems to have penetrated

his post-accident fog, bringing him back into sharper focus.

She watches as he walks out in front of the Olds' headlights

to the middle of the road, where the other vehicles track's

should be.

He walks back to the Olds and opens the passenger door (the

only access into or out of the stranded car, thanks to the

snowbank). He begins searching the glove compartment for a

flashlight.

ANGLE ON HER

Deliberating whether to seize this moment of distraction to

make a break for it.

She looks back down the long dark road.

Looks back at him bent over rummaging in the Oldsmobile.

Too risky.

Curiosity getting the better of her, she walks out to the

middle of the road to have a look for herself.

No tracks.

Just an expanse of fresh powder and a few of his footprints.

At that moment he emerges from the car with a flashlight. He

spokes it, sweeps the strong beam over their surroundings.

The left side of the road falls off into a darkness so deep

even the flashlight's beam can't penetrate it. A precipice.

He cups his hand and calls out at the top of his lungs.

She jumps at the sound of his voice, her nerves frazzled.

His voice is swallowed by the dark. After the echoes subside

the only sound in the hush is the SIZZLE of falling snow and

a weird otherworldly HUM.

He snaps off his flashlight, thrusts it into his coat pocket.

They trudge back to the car, boots crunching in the snow.

He holds the passenger door for her while she scrambles in,

scooting over into the driver's seat. He leaves the door

open so they can communicate.

He walks back to the rear of the stranded Oldsmobile.

He's pulling on gloves when something half-buried in the snow

nearby catches his eye. He takes out the flashlight, shines

it at the roadside.

Little wooden crosses.

Just two this time. Another sad shrine, to a different set

of anonymous victims of Route 606.

Their proximity to the stranded Olds obviously unsettles him.

He bends with a little wince and braces his shoulder against

the rear bumper.

The tail lights come on as she turns the ignition.   He hears

her crank the starter motor.

Cranking... cranking... cranking...

Finally turning over.

She slips the Oldsmobile in gear, and he starts pushing.

The rear tires spin, throwing slush; but car won't budge.

She floors it; the tires SCREAMING.

He puts everything he's got into pushing, but it's no use.

Suddenly his face contorts in pain and he clutches his side.

He drops out of view, disappearing in a cloud of red exhaust.

A beat later he pulls himself up, pounds on the trunk.

The tires stop spinning.

She's sitting in the driver's seat of the idling car when she

hears the crunch-crunch-crunch of his approaching footsteps.

In that moment she makes a decision.

Scrambles across the front seat, pulls the door shut hard.

He arrives at the passenger side door handle just as the

power locks all go THUNK.

He's locked out.

He tugs at the handle a few times.      Knocks on the window.

When there's no response from her he puts his lips to the

half-inch gap at the top of the stuck window.

She sees him cup his hands and peering in through the window.

She keeps her eyes down, focuses on her shaking fingers as

they frantically dial her cellphone.

No signal.

He rattles the door handle, starting to get panicked now.

But she's in full-blown paranoid mode now, near hysterics.

He stands there as she freaks out.

He straightens, exasperated, puts a hand to his injured head.

She looks at him standing there, hugging himself against the

sub-zero cold, his teeth chattering. He doesn't look like an

ax-murderer.

She doesn't know what to do. There's a long beat. Finally,

he throws up his hands in disgust, decides to go to Plan B.

Sticking his fingertips through the half-inch gap at the top

of the stuck passenger side window.

He looks in at her one last time, exits.

She listens to the crunch of his footsteps until she can't

hear them anymore.

Suddenly there's a loud BANG against the passenger side

window. She jumps.

He goes crazy on the stranded Olds: punching the roof,

jerking the door handle, kicking the door, screaming at her

the whole time.

She cowers inside, scared to death.

Finally he gives up, and with a final BANG to the roof,

exits.

He turns and heads back down the road.

We watch through the rear window as he trudges robotically

away, his boots crunch-crunch-crunching in the snow.

He stops.   Leans his weight against a tree.    Looks back at

the car.

Whatever it is he's doing, he's clearly not walking to the

gas station.

He straightens, and continues on until he's out of sight.

The stranded Oldsmobile sits on the roadside, engine running,

hood and windshield covered in white. The interior lights

are on, giving it an enchanted look, like a cottage in a

Grimm's fairytale.

She's in the back seat ransacking his suitcase and other

possessions, looking for the duct tape. Despite the heater

it's cold enough in the car (thanks to the gap in the window)

to see her breath.

A PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT plays on the car's radio.

Boxer shorts. Socks. Box of condoms. A copy of the Tibetan

Book of the Dead. A cheap Radio Shack TELEPHONE wrapped in

its cord. A CROW BAR, which she tosses up to the front seat.

Suddenly we see -

A BLUR OF MOVEMENT outside the car's foggy REAR WINDOW...

But she's too busy searching through the junk in the back

seat to notice.

Finally she finds what she's looking for: silver DUCT TAPE.

Also a PAIR OF SCISSORS.

She holds the scissors like a dagger, clearly thinking they

could come in useful if she needs to defend herself.

She climbs up front, rips off a three-foot length of tape.

Again, in the b.g. -

MORE MOVEMENT outside the car...

But she's too busy sealing the passenger's side window

against the frigid draft to notice that someone's outside.

Finally -

She glimpses MOVEMENT outside the passenger window.

She gasps, ducking out of sight below the car's dashboard.

She doesn't move, listening, her eyes bright with fear.

After a long beat she risks a peek over the steering wheel.

The windshield is fogged, so she wipes a peephole in the

condensate. It's too dark to see much beyond the car's hood.

She reaches shaking fingers toward the steering column.

Flicks on the headlights.

A STRANGER is walking away down the middle of the dark road.

She screams, reaches instinctively to check the power locks.

The stranger, a black man dressed in a dirty suit, walks with

hunched shoulders. Snow swirling around him in the darkness.

Who the hell takes a stroll in the middle of a snowstorm?

Over her initial shock now, she reaches for the door handle.

She gets out of the car, clutching the SCISSORS in both hands

like a dagger. She stands behind the protection of the open

car door and calls out to the stranger moving down the middle

of the snowy road a dozen yards ahead.

There's a weird HUMMING noise in the air she can't place.

No reaction from the stranger.

Again, nothing.    Maybe he's deaf?

She moves out from behind the safety of the car door and

starts after the stranger, keeping her distance as she calls:

The stranger's dapper suit is more than dishevelled. It's

soaking wet, caked in motor oil or some other dark slime.

And there's something definitely "off about his shuffling.

It's like he's crippled, or injured. In fact he seems to be

CRYING. (Or is it moaning?)

But the stranger just keeps shuffling toward the shoulder of

the road, headed in the direction of the DARK STAND OF TREES

beyond. Soon he moves beyond the reach of the headlights and

disappears into the gloom.

Spooked, she begins to back toward the stranded Oldsmobile.

Backs into -

She SCREAMS.

She brandishes the SCISSORS.    He puts up two hands

defensively.

Her eyes keep cutting back and forth between him and the

woods where the stranger disappeared, as if not sure which is

the greater threat.

She clutches the scissors tighter, not believing a word.

He closes his eyes and shakes his head, beyond frustrated.

He turns and trudges back to the Oldsmobile, climbs in, and

pulls the door shut after him. Leaving her there in the

snowy road, clutching the scissors, her teeth chattering.

She stands there, shivering, looking very small and alone.

HOLD on her as she weighs her options: stay out here and

freeze. Or risk seeking shelter with a stalker.

Not much of a choice.

He looks over as the door wrenches open and she climbs in.

She pulls the door shut behind her, then huddles against it.

Eyeing him warily.

He starts to reach toward her and she brandishes the scissors-

- and switches off the overhead interior lights, explaining:

With the interior light off the car fills with an otherwordly

blue glow reflected off the snow. She pulls her knees up as

if trying to make herself as small as she can, to position

herself as far away from him as is humanly possible on a

bench seat.

Her eyes cut to the DASHBOARD CLOCK.    She frowns.

He frowns, looking down at his watch.    He holds it to his

ear.

He tosses his useless watch over his shoulder into the back

seat.

Suddenly she notices a trickle of blood coming from his head.

He touches two fingers to the left side of his head. They

come away bloody. As he lifts his watch cap we see the left

side of his head is matted with frozen blood, now beginning

to melt. The collar of his coat is soaked with it.

A tense silence fills the car. He closes his eyes and leans

his head back, as if trying to catch a few Z's.

Eyes still closed, he answers in a flat uninflected voice.

She ponders this for a beat, one piece still not clicking.

WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05                  40A.

Just then her eyes go wide, as it suddenly dawns on her.

A SERIES OF QUICK CUTS revisits events from earlier that day.

- The text message, "y don't u check the ride board?"

- Her looking up, smiling.

- Sitting behind her, reading the message:    OUR GUY.

- Who bolts from his seat the instant class is dismissed.

- Who turns out to be the one who jostled her on his way out.

- He races across the empty quad, scribbling on the run.

- Tears the improvised notice out of his spiral notebook.

- Slaps it up on the RIDE BOARD just in the nick of time.

- As she enters and sees: "NE1 Need a ride 2 Delaware 12/23?"

She looks at him, the pieces all finally falling into place.

He makes no effort to explain. Doesn't even open his eyes.

He sits up sharply, temper boiling over, glaring at her.

He leans over the seatback, begins rummaging in the back.

At mention of groceries she temporarily drops the topic of

the gas station. Remembers:

He sighs, slumps back behind the steering wheel, defeated.

The wind blows.    In between gusts it's quiet, except for the

strange HUM.

She's still huddled up front, still holding her scissors.

He's in the back seat, scouring the car for anything edible,

scrounging Tic Tacs, stale pretzel nibs, a candy bar, etc.

He thrusts his hand between the seat cushions like a scuba

diver feeling for lobster under a coral reef.

DOWN THE BACK SEAT:

His hand fumbles in the dark space below the seat cushions,

among the seatbelts, lost nickels and dimes, lint.

BACK TO SCENE

Suddenly his eyes go wide as something lurking under the

seats seizes his hand and jerks him in hard.

She GASPS.

His face contorts in agony.

Then changes to a smile, as he pulls his hand free, unhurt,

holding a stick of gum.

She looks at him in mute fury and disbelief. He shrugs,

unwraps a stick of Big Red and pops it into his mouth.

Suddenly his hand shoots out and seizes her wrist holding the

scissors. Her eyes go wide in terror and she starts to

resist, but his grip is too strong.

With his free hand he reaches over and wrenches the scissors

away from her, his eyes flashing. She gives a little

terrified whimper as he pulls her close, brandishes the

scissors.

With the blade of the open scissors he divides a stale candy

bar, divvying it up.

He closes the scissors. Serves up the two halves of candy

bar on napkins with a side of stale pretzel nibs.

They eat in silence, each chewing the unappetizing "dinner."

He doesn't answer, only withdraws into himself, sulking.

All of a sudden the Oldsmobile gives a SHUDDER.

And then the engine DIES.

They leap out to investigate, dropping down on all fours to

shine the flashlight under the chassis.

HER POV:

Under the car. The beam illuminates a yellow crater of melted

snow beneath the car's undercarriage.

BACK TO SCENE

She reaches under to scoop up some of the yellow snow.

Retrieves it so she can hold it under her nose and sniff.

She gives him a sober look, as the storm rages around them.

He looks at her, a look of grim determination on his face.

He marches to the car, pops the trunk.

Retrieves her suitcase.

He dumps her suitcase in front.    She climbs in after it.

Slams the door.

He rolls into the back, fishes his suitcase out of the mess.

He raises an eyebrow, leans over the front seat to unzip her

suitcase and see for himself.

Christmas gifts, skimpy tees, panties and bras, a bikini.

He unzips his suitcase.      Starts pulling out Ragg socks, long-

sleeve pullovers, etc.

He shoves a ball of clothes into her hands without a word.

The kids have retreated to the front- and back seats for

privacy while they change. Not an easy proposition in the

cramped quarters.

She strips down to bra and panties as demurely as possible.

Puts on his insulated underwear and the rest of their things.

He slips on his woefully inadequate shirts and pants. It's

obvious he gave the warmest stuff to her. Also that he took

the backseat because it's more cramped than the front.

Once they're finished dressing he reaches up, switches off

the interior light.

They lie in the blue darkness for a few moments of silence,

watching their breath plume in the cold air. [Note: from this

point on, their breath will always be visible in the car.]

He hears her sigh, restless.

Nothing much they can do about it.   They fall silent again.

But we see her smiling a little in the dark front seat.

They lie in silence for another beat as she tries every

position possible to get comfortable. Finally she sits up.

She starts to climb over into the cramped front seat,

intending to go outside. He winces when she puts a hand on

his chest to steady herself as she climbs over him.

She pops the door and exits.

She climbs out into the bitter cold, hunched against the

howling wind, and moves off as far as she dares from the car.

She fumbles with the buttons and zippers of her multiple

layers, turns her back to the car, squats to pee.

Her teeth chatter as she does her business, one wary eye

peeled to catch the guy peeking.

Suddenly, out of the gloom appears -

A DARK FIGURE, moving by very near her.

She GASPS. Tumbles back onto her ass.     As she's struggling

to pull up her pants -

MORE DARK FIGURES appear, moving in the same direction.

As the figures enter the woods their leader turns so she

glimpses his face: elderly and unremarkable at first glance,

then for an instant CHANGING into a twisted ashen deathmask.

Her SCREAM brings our guy BOLTING out of the car.

But it all happened so fast she doesn't believe her eyes.

She gestures at the procession of DARK FIGURES disappearing

ahead.

Our guy ducks back into the car, retrieves a flashlight from

the glove compartment.

He eases the door shut, carefully so it doesn't latch and

accidentally lock them out.

The he starts off running after the figures. Scared as she

is, she decides to follow rather than remain at the car by

herself.

The two kids arrive at the place on the road -- top of a

ravine disappearing thirty feet below -- where the dark

figures seemed to be headed.

Only to find NO ONE THERE.

She looks where he's pointing with the flashlight-

HER POV:

On the wooded slope on the opposite slope of the ravine are

SEVERAL TALL OLD MEN IN DARK COATS, dispersing through the

woods. As if whatever somber occasion that brought them to

the ravine has ended.

Climbing down into the ravine seems too treacherous, so the

kids are forced to backtrack to a place several yards away

where they can follow the DARK FIGURES into the:

They follow the bobbing beam of the flashlight through the

trees, in pursuit of the OLD MAN in black coat and fedora.

Our guy falls behind, winded.

She trudges on ahead, her footsteps growing FAINTER, finally

fading entirely.

He's alone now.

He leans against a tree to catch his breath, wincing in pain.

For an instant it seems like he's going to be sick. But then

he just hocks up phlegm and spits into the pure white snow.

Blood.

Though still winded, he pushes on.

A few minutes later he trudges into view.   Looks around.    No

sign of our girl.

He arrives at the top of the hill.   Silhouetted against the

night sky. Treeless.

His flashlight finds the few vertical objects still standing.

A RUINED BUILDING

Windowless and long-abandoned, its ceiling and walls caved in

around a large stone chimney.

He crunches inside and examines the black maw of the large

stone fireplace, now stuffed with trash and dead leaves. His

flashlight beam finds a SMALL IRON DOOR built into the side

of the chimney.

A FIREBOX.

He kneels in the snow and tugs the little iron door open.

Gingerly slips his arm inside the firebox.

Retrieves a bunch of OLD NEWSPAPERS. He stuffs them inside

the front of his jacket. Continues rummaging around in the

firebox.

As he rises he winces in pain, one hand going to his side.

He takes slow breaths until the pain subsides.

He turns in a slow circle. His flashlight sweeps over the

interior of the abandoned ruins, the beam picking out what

look like branches -

HUMAN HANDS

frozen into claws, reaching from...

A FROZEN BODY.

It's lying on the bare springs of a metal bedframe: teeth

clenched in a terrible rictus, icicles dripping from nose,

clawlike fingers, eyes.

He's so startled he nearly drops the flashlight.

The wayward light finding ANOTHER FROZEN CORPSE in a nearby

bed mere feet away: another rictus grimace, clawlike fingers

seeming to reach for him. And then another. And another...

All OLD MEN.

Frozen in their death throes, like the bodies from Pompeii.

ONE OF THE BEDS is EMPTY.

Our guy sweeps the flashlight beam to the side and finds the

bed's occupant: frozen sitting upright in an old wooden

wheelchair.

Eye to eye with him.

He reels in horror, trips, LOSES THE FLASHLIGHT as he goes

sprawling. Then recovers, snatching the flashlight up again

and sweeping it back in the direction of the frozen bodies -

And sees NOTHING:   No beds.   No old men...

WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05                    52A.

Just his footprints in the snow.

Our girl emerges from the trees, having decided to give up

the chase and return to the safety of the car.

Just as she's reaching for the door handle she GASPS -

As a FIGURE suddenly appears out of the darkness.

It's the black STRANGER from earlier, shuffling and mumbling.

This time he's close enough for her to make out some of the

words he's muttering:

Determined not to let him vanish again, she takes off in

pursuit, coming alongside him and keeping pace as he shuffles

down the middle of the road.

Suddenly she glances down, sees why he's shuffling so oddly.

His ankles above his sodden dress shoes are bound with BALING

WIRE, as are his wrists.

She reaches toward him.

The instant her hand nears him the wind HOWLS DEAFENINGLY.

She experiences a sudden powerful JOLT, almost as if she's

grabbed a live wire... only instead of electric heat she

feels a terrible otherwordly cold...

Frostbite.

The jolt stuns the stranger out of his daze, and for the

first time he becomes aware of her. He raises his frightened

eyes to her slowly, and in doing so reveals his face.

A scream builds in her throat at sight of him.

The stranger's face is bloodless, bloated, swollen with rot.

A sludgy gargling noise comes from his throat and his mouth

moves, as if he's trying to speak.

But instead of words emerging, his throat suddenly bulges.

Something's in there, fighting its way up his esophagus.

She watches in horror as it emerges, blind and wriggling like

a blood-fattened leech. Forcing its way out through his lips

to land at his feet with a wet PLOP.

It lies there writhing in the fresh snow.

A river eel.

She SCREAMS.

POV of our guy running blindly through the woods, FLASHLIGHT

BEAM throwing weird bouncing shadows across the trees, boots

CRUNCHING in the snow, sound of his GASPING BREATHS...

He stops, wracked with pain, and doubles over with hands on

knees to catch his breath.

In the silence he hears her SCREAM coming from ahead.

He stands, and though still winded, starts running again.

Our guy emerges from the woods still carrying the newspapers

he found in time to find our girl white with shock and

SCREAMING. He grabs her by the shoulders, shakes her.

Her screams give way to hyperventilating sobs.

She starts to tell him, then stops, not sure if she believes

it herself.

Suddenly he looks down, notices her blackened mitten on her

right hand. The palm is blistered and raw. He takes her

hand gingerly, examines it. She winces in pain.

He raises his eyes from her frostbite, looks at the dark

silent stand of dense woods surrounding them. They exchange

a look of knowing concern.

They start back in the direction of the stranded Oldsmobile.

Pan down to the road, where something moves weakly under the

fresh powdering of snow.

The RIVER EEL, in its death throes.

They climb back inside. He pulls the old newspapers out from

inside his jacket, tosses them on the dashboard. She pulls

the passenger door shut.

The duct tape has come loose, allowing a cold draft in

through the cracked window.

She notices the NEWSPAPERS on the dash, grabs them.

He hands it to her, and she starts using the tape and old

newspapers to seal out the draft.

When she's finished, he starts to climb over into the back.

She looks at him, too embarrassed to ask him to hold her. It

takes him a beat to understand. Then he crawls over to her,

and they spoon together in the front seat, finding their best

fit.

Any awkwardness quickly passes.

They lie there, too frightened to sleep.

TITLE CARD ON BLACK:

Our kids lie awake, him spooning her, listening to the RADIO

quietly playing Christmas music: (segue into Brenda Lee's

"Rockin' Around the Christmas Tree.")

WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05                  56A.

KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK --

Someone is outside, knocking on the Oldsmobile's window.

They both jump, startled. He glances up into the rearview

mirror, sees HEADLIGHTS behind them and a RED FLASHING LIGHT.

She cranks down the icy passenger side window, revealing the

silhouette of a HIGHWAY PATROLMAN standing just outside: 40s,

wearing a trim-fitting uniform and a stiff-brimmed trooper's

hat.

The kids speak over one another in their relief to see him.

The cop listens without comment, shining his flashlight over

the car's interior.

He shines the flashlight directly in our girl's eyes.

The girl, quicker to catch on than the guy, puts a hand on

his arm.

He turns to her, says in an angry whisper -

But she's already digging cash out of her purse.

He looks at her in disbelief. Sees that she's serious. He

digs out his wallet, starts to climb over her to exit. She

stops him.

He concedes her point silently. She plucks the money from his

hand. Opens the door.

She exits the stranded car into the frigid cold.

The cop waits, facing away, in the spotlight-like glare of

his IDLING PATROL CAR's headlights.

She walks back toward him, finds him mopping the back of his

neck with a handkerchief.

Her bravado begins to flag. This isn't the kind of police

officer she's used to dealing with. She glances worriedly

back in the direction of the Olds.

She holds out the money, but he ignores it.

He takes off his hat so he can mop his brow. As he turns,

she gets a first good look at his face: handsome but hard,

with cruel snake charmer's eyes looking back at her...

She's scared now.

She looks past him to where the HIGHWAY PATROL car sits

idling in a red plume of exhaust fumes.

She startles as if slapped, too horrified to parse his

meaning.

She continues backing away until she's backed up against the

trunk of the Olds.

The cop is advancing toward her when suddenly he catches

sight of something high on the hillside behind her that makes

him stop.

She glances over her shoulder to see what he's looking at:

A LIGHT on the hilltop, where the burned-out ruins stand.

And weirder still, there's a FIGURE in silhouette standing

nearby.

Someone watching.

The cop darkens, enraged by this unwanted audience. His face

contorts, fury building in him until he trembles with it. He

rests his hand on the butt of his service revolver, says to

her in a low urgent voice:

She starts walking toward the parked patrol car ahead of him.

The highway patrolman's boots CRUNCHING behind her.

The patrol car's HEADLIGHTS are blinding. She moves towards

them, squinting, as if moving down a tunnel of light.

Suddenly the guy appears brandishing a CROWBAR.

He swings it in a lethal arc toward the patrolman's head.

The cop's head crumples inward. The cop's expression of FURY

suddenly STUTTERS, like film slipping in the projector -

As two worlds that should never intersect, do, violently -

For an instant, the cop's face appears...charred. Like a

human face projected onto a scorched and melting balloon.

The image flickers -

And on an ear-splitting HOWL we -

Suddenly, jarringly, the kids are seated BACK INSIDE THE CAR.

As if someone hit RESET.

Our guy winces in pain.     TILT DOWN to reveal:

HIS HANDS

Frostbitten, still clutching the crowbar. She tries to take

it out of his bloody, blackened hands and he GASPS in agony.

She pours water from a plastic bottle over his palms to try

and break the seal between the fused skin and metal.

She fights her own gag reflex as she pulls the crowbar free.

It comes away with several long black strips of dead skin

still attached. His palms are bloody pulps.

He fights to hold himself together as she ministers to him.

The pain is so bad it brings tears to his eyes. His teeth

chatter; he's teetering on the edge of shock.

She stretches herself out alongside him in the back seat.

Tugs up her layers of sweaters to expose her stomach.

She takes his frostbitten hands and gingerly as possible

presses them against the warm skin of her belly, rewarming

them.

They lie there in silence for a beat, faces inches apart.

Her eyes cut to his, afraid, resistent to the very idea.

He doesn't have an answer.    They fall silent for a beat.

Trying to take their minds off the grim situation.

She closes her eyes, imagining the meal that might've been.

If they ever get out of here. Her eyes brim, tears spilling

down her cheeks. He tries to sound optimistic.

She climbs into the front seat and searches through her purse

for the prescription bottle. With the poor light and without

her contacts she has trouble finding it. She takes out her

glasses and, a little embarrassed, slips them on.

She's about to climb back when something catches her eye.

INSERT OLD NEWSPAPER --

The one used to patch the small gap in the passenger window.

There's a faded PHOTOGRAPH of a group of ELDERLY PRIESTS

gathered around a MANGLED `55 FORD CROWN VIC. We recognize

one of them, glancing back over his shoulder at the camera,

as the LEADER of the mysterious procession of DARK FIGURES

from earlier.

INTERCUT OLD NEWSPAPER / GIRL & GUY

Below the accident scene photo are HIGH SCHOOL YEARBOOK

PORTRAITS of TWO TEENAGE BOYS with crewcuts and letter

jackets bearing a distinctive team insignia "The Cougars."

Across the top of the paper is a torn headline: "North

Granville Youths Killed In Joy Riding Accident" and below it

"Cougars Coach Mourns Loss."

Suddenly, the interior light fizzles out, making her jump.

She reaches up and taps on it until it flickers back on.

She skim-reads ahead, trying to glean more information.

She tears the brittle top pages of the newspaper away.

Finds there is no page seven.

She climbs over into the back seat, feeds him two of the

Tylenol with a sip of water from a bottle. Then stretches

out alongside him again.

He drifts off to sleep.

TITLE CARD ON BLACK:

Both kids are asleep in the back seat.

She's dreaming, her eyes roving behind closed lids.   All of a

sudden she stirs, eyes fluttering open in the dark.   Shivers.

Woken by a cold draft.

She shivers, sits up, disentangling herself from the guy

snoring quietly beside her in the cramped back seat.

She locates the source of the draft.

The STUCK PASSENGER WINDOW up front, where the duct-tape-

newspaper patch has come loose. She shivers as a gust of

wind blows a few snowflakes in.

She grabs the roll of duct tape, climbs up into the front.

Tears off a fresh strip of tape off to replace the old one.

She smooths it in place, her teeth chattering between yawns.

Just then the radio SNAPS on by itself.

She freezes.

Her eyes cut to the backlit radio dial as the song continues.

The radio SHUTS OFF mid-song.

She holds still, scared to move, scared to even breathe.

Her eyes cut to the interior light as it starts flickering in

a weird staccato way that's more Morse Code than loose wire.

After a few seconds it stops.

The seconds creep by on the dashboard clock.

She peeks over the front seat looking out the back window,

wondering where his highway patrol car is.

Which is when a gloved fist PUNCHES THROUGH THE WINDOW and

hauls her kicking and screaming out of the Oldsmobile...

... and into a sweltering summer night in the late 1950s...

What follows is brutal and hallucinatory: a SERIES OF SHOTS

that thrust us into the sickening first person POV of a

BLONDE young woman, 19, in the final moments of her life.

The RASP of CICADAS in the treetops provide the only

soundtrack to the assault, as we see:

-- CLOSE ON their feet, high heels and boots, doing a violent

two-step as he drags her along the gravel road shoulder

-- HANDHELD footage as she's dragged toward his idling patrol

car

-- POV of a FULL MOON in the tree-tops, dispassionate

spectator to the assault going on on this lonely stretch of

road

-- CLOSE UP of the COP'S MOUTH, twisted with lust as he

whispers something obscene we cannot hear.

-- CLOSE ON his HAND working it's way up to her throat,

forcing his thick hairy thumb between her lips and making her

suck.

-- POV underneath his patrol car, as his boots kick her feet

apart, and take up position between them

-- The brim of his hat lifting to reveal him looking up with

a scowl of surprise

-- And the cop's scowl curdles into a look of outrage at

sight of --

-- SILHOUETTES of old men watching on the hilltop, roused by

the commotion down on the road below --

-- The cop wrenches open the back door of the car, hurls her

in, slams the door shut.

-- He shoots a warning look in the direction of the

SILHOUETTES ON THE HILLTOP that says, "Don't fuck with me..."

-- Then he climbs behind the wheel of his car and drives off.

OUR GIRL's face as her eyes snap open and she bolts upright

in the backseat, scaring the shit out of our guy.

He doesn't get to finish his sentence: Her eyes roll back in

her head and she collapses again, as if yanked down by an

undertow.

She starts violently CONVULSING in the cramped confines of

the back seat, limbs flailing, feet kicking windows, etc.

Our guy tries everything to wake her: shaking her shoulders,

slapping her face hard. But it's no use: the nightmare has

her again.

He sits back, helplessly looking on.

Suddenly the radio SNAPS ON mid-song, scaring the crap out of

him.

The car's rear window brightens with APPROACHING HEADLIGHTS

of a highway patrol car, it's strobe light flooding the

Oldsmobile's interior with RED.

From our girl's eyes going crazy in R.E.M.-pattern we--

And our girl finally surfaces from the dream as if coming up

for air, with a huge GASP and eyes wild with fear. Only to

find herself in a waking nightmare.

The car interior flooded with red.    Our guy terrified.

She climbs up front to help our guy frantically taping over

the vents. A shadow moves by the WINDSHIELD and she gasps-

As another shadow goes by in a blur past the BACK WINDOW and

he gasps-

The assault coming from everywhere at once now, the cop an

elemental force, like the storm itself. Skittering along the

undercarriage one moment, across the metal roof the next.

Even appearing -- fleetingly, impossibly -- in the snow on

the blocked driver's side window.

All the electronics in the car start going crazy, power locks

opening and closing, the interior light flickering, the

dashboard clock hands spinning wildly, the windshield wipers

sweeping back and forth, etc.

Then stop all at once.

Even the radio SNAPS OFF.

Dead silence for a beat.

Then an odd SCUTTLING SOUND underfoot, something crawling

along the undercarriage of the car.

Our guy sits there frozen with fear, too scared to move, to

even breathe.

Likewise, the girl sits nervously, watching her breath in the

cold. Her eyes happen to wander to the rear view mirror-

A blue-faced DEAD BABY stares back at her from the rear

window ledge.

She SWINGS around, looks back at the window.   But nothing's

there.

She turns back, he looks at her with concern. Unsure of her

own senses, she shakes him off. Exhales slowly.

Beat.

Suddenly the scuttling noises outside EXPLODE into to a full-

blown assault.

There's the shriek of RENDING METAL, the thing outside begins

HAMMERING at the car's hood, doors, etc.

The car gives a violent shudder side-to-side tosses our kids

around like plastic flakes in a snow globe.

The radio snaps back on: the saxophone solo in the Brenda Lee

song, accompanying the violent CLANGS and GROANS of metal

being torn asunder as the thing under the car rips away

muffler, brake lines, wrenches the handles from the doors,

etc.

Our guy claps hands over his ears so he can't hear the sound

of the cop's rage as he attacks the car, fury growing and

growing until it's indistinguishable from the HOWLING wind

outside.

The attack ends.

The red police light in the rear window FADES.

Leaving them sitting there in the dark in stunned silence.

He turns around in the front seat to shake a bandaged fist at

the rear window.

She claps a hand over his mouth.

They sit in silence, listening, but hear only the wind.

Sounds like a plan.

She shakes her head, eyes full of fear.

He nods, understanding.

So they just hunker down in the front seat, staring at the

snow covered windshield, and start the long wait to morning.

TITLE CARD ON BLACK:

The snow is slacking off. The stranded Oldsmobile is now

completely snowbound, a car-shaped hillock of white on the

roadside.

The interior of the car is eerily QUIET, cocooned in snow.

The kids sit in silence in the front seat, fighting to stay

awake. His face is pale, skull visible beneath the skin.

She stares at the black, snow-covered windshield.

She climbs over into the back seat and crouches down,

urinating as demurely as possible into an empty bottle.

She catches herself at the last second, but it's too late:

the word "relationship" hangs in the air. Beat.

Finished peeing, she twists the cap on the water bottle.

Sets it on the floor with the other URINE-FILLED BOTTLES.

Noticing ONE BOTTLE that doesn't look like the others.

She climbs over into the front to confront him with the urine

bottle, which is tinged with PINK.

Blood.

No answer.

But she sees through his tough-guy facade.       He's frightened.

WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05                 76A.

Suddenly he goes rigid in pain, his teeth clenched.   She

looks on helplessly.

They sit there a moment in silence. She digs out her

cellphone and checks for a signal: NO SIGNAL BARS.

A long beat.

Then she's struck by an idea.

She switches on the wipers to clear snow from the windshield.

Wipes at the foggy glass until she's got enough of a peephole

to peek out.

She indicates a TELEPHONE POLE twenty yards up from them.

There's a SMALL GREY STEEL JUNCTION BOX near the top.

She turns, leaning over the seatback to rummage among his

junk in the back. She retrieves his old wall TELEPHONE,

examines the jack at end of its cord.

Trying to convince herself.

They both go quiet.

She sits there with the phone in her lap, brooding on this.

Until something clicks.

She switches on the RADIO.

They hear Elvis Presley's 1957 "Blue Christmas" playing.

Looking down at the stranded Oldsmobile from the top of the

telephone pole. The grey JUNCTION BOX in the foreground.

The weird HUMMING is louder here.

He watches her prep for her mission out into the bitter cold.

She disconnects the TELEPHONE RECEIVER from it's base, wraps

it in its chord, stows it for safekeeping under her sweater.

She's ready.

He shows a weak smile.   Even the last twenty four hours.

They fall silent, both thinking about this.

She uses her sweater cuff to make clean spot on his cheek.

Kisses him tenderly.

The kiss working it's way to his mouth, lingering a beat.

Their lips part.

He catches her arm as she reaches for the power window

switch, holds tight.

She looks at him with fierce eyes full of determination.     The

look calms him, at least a little.

She keys the ignition, lowers the passenger side window.

The duct tape rips away as the window glides down, admitting

a mini-avalanche of powdery snow and a frigid blast of cold.

She climbs out.

Viewed from high atop the telephone pole she looks small and

vulnerable as she climbs out of the Oldsmobile-shaped igloo.

An eerie HUSH has fallen, snow muffling sound except for the

occasional forlorn wailing of the WIND through the trees.

She sets out through deep powder toward the TELEPHONE POLE.

Teeth chattering, he watches through the windshield as she

begins her long trek across the MOONLIT EXPANSE OF WHITE.

He turns up the VOLUME on the radio, which is now playing a

funereal church-organ instrumental of "Silent Night."

The deep powder makes her trek difficult, and she's soon

winded. Her breath plumes in the frigid arctic cold.

CLOSE ON THE BACKLIT RADIO DIAL as "Silent Night" concludes.

In between STATIC we hear a pre-recorded PUBLIC SERVICE

ANNOUNCEMENT.

She leans into the wind as it gusts, the cold bringing tears

to her eyes. She puts her head down and soldiers on.

Arriving at the base of the telephone pole, she peers up at

the grey JUNCTION BOX high above. From here the top of the

telephone pole looks much higher than it did from the car.

And the iron rungs look a lot narrower, too.

She's losing her nerve.

She glances back to check no police lights are coming.

Steels herself.

Then puts her foot on the first rung and hauls herself up.

CLOSE ON THE RADIO, where, between increasingly long snatches

of STATIC we can just discern Gene Autry's version of "Here

Comes Santa Claus."

The rungs are icy, forcing her to climb slower than she would

like. She keeps her eyes forward, never once looking down.

When the wind gusts she pauses and waits for it to subside.

She's midway to the top when her foot SLIPS on an icy rung.

She clutches the pole tightly, wind whistling in her ears.

She waits until her heart slows and she's recovered from her

near fall.

Then looks up to gauge the distance left to the JUNCTION BOX.

Keeps climbing.

She reaches the last rung at the TOP OF THE TELEPHONE POLE.

It's noisy up here, thanks to the WIND and the icy telephone

wires, source of the mysterious HUMMING she's been hearing.

She tries the little metal door of the grey JUNCTION BOX.

Locked.

She fumbles in her coat, takes out the SCISSORS, uses them to

try and pry open the junction box (which turns out to be

frozen shut, not locked after all.)

It finally yields, opening.

Revealing a rat's nest of multicolored WIRES and PHONE JACKS.

Hurrying now, she tugs her glove off with her teeth, and with

her bare hand retrieves the cord-wrapped RECEIVER from inside

her sweater. In her effort to juggle all these items she

loses her grip on the SCISSORS...

Which drop all the   way down to disappear in the snow below.

She concentrates now on the receiver.    But her fingers are so

clumsy from the cold, she fumbles it.

And the receiver FALLS too.

Then jerks to a STOP a few feet below as it reaches the limit

of its cord.

Which she's managed to catch. She winds the receiver up by

its cord, finally plugs the jack-end into the junction box.

Hears a DIAL TONE.

Teeth chattering she thumbs "0" for the operator.

On the third ring an OPERATOR answers.

The connection SPARKS and she feels a small shock that makes

her drop the phone. When she retrieves it and holds it back

to her ear the line is DEAD.

No way of knowing if her message got through.

It's a moment of such soul-crushing despair she shuts her

eyes and leans her head against the pole, as if wanting to

just quietly die up here thirty feet above the earth.

CLOSE ON THE RADIO playing nothing but STATIC now.

Her eyes open, and she commences climbing back down to earth.

She reaches the second set of rungs from the bottom and drops

the last several feet. The snow does little to cushion her

fall and she goes sprawling, lays there for a dazed moment.

She starts crawling on all fours back toward the stranded

Olds. Suddenly she stops as she comes upon-

A WOMAN'S BARE FEET

standing in the snow, veins visible through gravid skin.

A thick spatter of mud lands on the bare foot.

Our girl raises her eyes to see -

A DEAD WOMAN

It's the blonde we saw raped and murdered in the summer of

1958. Her dress is in tattered ruins, coated in leaves and

dirt like someone recently exhumed from a shallow grave.

Her head is twisted at an unnatural angle on a broken neck.

Our girl GASPS and scrambles to her feet, fleeing.

Only to stop dead in her tracks as she nearly collides with-

TWO DEAD TEENAGE BOYS

The joyriding teens killed on Christmas Eve 1958.

Both wear blood-soaked letterman jackets bearing the

DISTINCTIVE COUGAR INSIGNIA and stand in a post-accident

haze.

One's chest is concave, stove-in by the impact with the

steering wheel. The other's teeth are visible where his

cheek has been torn away.

She reels away in horror, forced to take the long way back to

the Oldsmobile. She runs the last few yards to the car where

we can hear the eerie sound of STATIC emanating from the

radio as she hurls herself -

Inside.   Safe!

She sits there, out of breath. She glances over quickly at

our guy, gravely pale, slumped unconscious behind the

steering wheel.

She chafes her hands to get the circulation going again.

She turns down the volume on the radio.

He doesn't respond.

When this too gets no response from him she looks over,

frowning. She scoots a little closer across the front seat

toward him.

Which is when WE SEE -

HIS GHOST

standing outside the car, slack-expressioned and staring.

He stands there a beat, then drifts off into the night.

She reaches to jostle him awake.    One touch confirms her

worst fears.

She reaches up to switch on the INTERIOR LIGHT, to get a

better look at him.

Her reaction is so sudden and violent and overwhelming it

seems for a moment she's going to be sick. She covers her

mouth, muffling a cry of raw-throated terror.

Then shakes him again, harder this time, desperate to wake

him.

Tears spill down her cheeks as she fights hysteria. She

shakes him harder. His inert body spills to one side,

slumping against her.

Her grief turns to something else, instinctive and immediate:

revulsion, at the feel of his cold dead weight against her.

She scrambles across the front seat to put as much distance

as she can between herself and the corpse.

Cowers against the passenger door.

The INTERIOR LIGHT flickers out as the battery finally dies.

The door opens and she backs out, hauling the dead body after

her. Her face is red, tear-streaked.

She strains to move his dead weight. Her feet slip on the

ice and she lets go of him, catching herself on the open

door.

She grabs the body under the armpits, hauls with all her

strength. Drags him a few yards away from the Oldsmobile.

His boot heels ploughing twin gouges in the snow.

Behind her, gravity pulls the heavy car door shut with a soft

THUNK.

Suddenly her feet go out from under her as she hits a patch

of ice. She goes down hard on her ass, sprawling. Sits

there a beat, as-

HEADLIGHTS appear on the dark horizon.   We see them a split-

second before she does...

He's coming.

When she glimpses the oncoming headlights out of the corner

of her eye she turns her head slowly in their direction, and

for an instant it almost seems as if they don't register.

Then her eyes widen in terror, she lets out a small whimper,

and leaps into action.

She scrambles to her feet and makes a mad dash toward the

Oldsmobile -

Only to find when she tugs on the handle that it's STUCK.

She yanks on it harder, getting frantic now, as -

The HEADLIGHTS get brighter, bearing down, close enough now

that we can hear the ROAR of the oncoming engine.

She kicks the handle, tugs with all her might, rocking the

car but not succeeding in getting the door open.

As the headlights become BLINDING...

Suddenly there's the sound of BRAKES being engaged, and the

headlights slow to a stop just a few yards shy of where she's

standing in the middle of the road.

She shields her eyes with an upraised hand.

It's a SNOWPLOW.

The SNOWPLOW DRIVER, 50s, sticks his head out the window.

She's too stunned to speak.

TITLE CARD ON BLACK:

The snowplow driver is a hale townie dressed like a high

school principal on a hunting trip.

He and our girl transfer our guy's lifeless body to the BACK

SEAT of the snowplow.

Inside the cab it's blessedly warm. The dashboard panel, GPS

and CB radio are lit up like a Christmas tree.

While the snowplow driver tests the front tire chains, our

girl checks on our guy's body.

The snowplow driver climbs up behind the wheel, gives her a

sympathetic look. Picks up the C.B. microphone.

The driver puts the snowplow in gear and sets off driving.

Her eyes cut to the-

SIDEVIEW MIRROR

Where she sees the STRANDED OLDSMOBILE receding in the

distance.

The snowplow cruises along, its plow blade throwing twin

white rooster's tails of ice and snow to either side.

She stares blankly out the window at the snow swirling in the

headlights.

The snowplow driver makes small-talk to help pass the time.

Three blue CORPSES sit in the car: mother, father, infant.

Their gaping mouths frozen open in a silent rictus scream.

The snowplow driver shakes his head at the eerie memory.

She frowns at this, reminded of her earlier vision.

She knows.

He reaches for the C.B. mike, thumbs the switch.

And as the ONCOMING HEADLIGHTS OF THE HIGHWAY PATROLMAN get

brighter, she calmly buckles her seatbelt.

The ONCOMING CAR roars down the middle of the pickup's lane,

the distance between the speeding vehicles closing fast. The

game of chicken is fast approaching the point of no return.

They watch the ONCOMING HEADLIGHTS.

He blasts his horn, but the HEADLIGHTS just keep coming.

She braces for impact. At the last possible moment the

snowplow driver jerks the wheel hard to the right.

SERIES OF SHOTS:

- The snowplow fishtails out of control, its plow blade

slicing through snow and ice until metal bites blacktop,

throwing up SPARKS.

- The 1950s HIGHWAY PATROL CAR (the HIGHWAY PATROLMAN behind

the wheel) veering off in the opposite direction.

- The snowplow flipping ASS-OVER-TEAKETTLE

- Inside the snowplow the world somersaults, our guy's body

thrown halfway out of the shattered windshield onto the hood.

- The highway patrol car skidding off the side of the road

and dropping from sight, crashing with a SPLASH somewhere in

the darkness.

- As the snowplow comes to a rest right-side up on its tires

as we -

The WRECKED SNOWPLOW has ended up on the edge of the ravine

where the highway patrol car disappeared.

There's a metallic GROAN of hinges as the snowplow's driver's

side door opens and the SNOWPLOW DRIVER, dazed but unhurt,

climbs out.

He calls down into the gloom below, where we hear the faint

sounds of the highway patrol car's RADIO playing "Rockin'

Around the Christmas Tree."

Then he begins to make his way down.

Our girl rouses from her post-accident daze. Sees the body

of our guy thrown through the windshield. She eases it back

inside and onto the seat beside her.

She looks up in time to see through the windshield -

The SNOWPLOW DRIVER making his way down the steep slippery

ice-and-leaf-covered embankment.

Her eyes go wide as she suddenly realizes where he's headed.

She unbuckles her seatbelt, throws open the passenger door,

exits.

