Nestled incongruously in a savage landscape, the charming

protosuburbia gleams in the dawn's early Spielberg light.

The Xenosaurus grabs its sack and some silverware spills

out. Then it runs off into the bushes and out of sight.

It reaches the crest of a hill where there's a "WELCOME

TO BEDROCK" billboard which bears greetings from the

Rotary Club, the Chamber of Commerce, and (of course)

The Loyal Order of Water Buffaloes. The garbage truck

guys drop their feet down through the floorboard and

trot over the rise, coast down to the street below.

The driver yanks a wooden brake and the truck stops, and

the rear guys hop off. One of them waves to --

who returns the wave, then takes a four-pack of stone

bottles out of his milk truck, heads towards a doorway.

As the milkman drops off the milk, he passes a big

TORTOISE with trash cans on its back. The Tortoise

nods familiarly to the milkman, then it waddles down the

curb, CAMERA FOLLOWING. The garbage men take the cans

off the Tortoise's back, dump them into the truck.

-- revealing   that the back of the truck is actually a

giant-jawed   CREATURE strapped onto the chassis. The

garbage men   dump the cans into its maw... it happily

swallows the   works, licks its lips, BELCHES.

The garbagemen slam the cans back on the Tortoise, who

winces as they drive off.

It waddles back up the lawn... passing by a wooden "lawn

timer" box which now pops open.

Inside the box is a "ROOSTERSAURUS" which CROWS and flaps

its wings. The motion of the wings knocks loose two

round stones which roll down two long troughs a la Rube

Goldberg...

They reach the ends of their respective paths, dislodging

a stick... that releases a coiled rope which in turn

spins a turntable which holds a little wooly mammoth. As

it begins to spin around, it squirts water out of its

snout.

Elsewhere on the lawn, other spinning MAMMOTHS repeat

this performance. After a moment, they gradually slow

their revolutions. The one closest to the house

scrunches its trunk with a GROAN.

WIDEN FROM the windowsill, where a little sea shell

hearing aid trumpet AMPLIFIES another ROOSTERSAURUS

"COCK-A-DOODLE-DOO" into the ear of a "CLOCK RADIO

WOODPECKER." The Woodpecker yawns, gets out of bed,

puts a timecard in a little clock. Then it turns

and begins pecking on a BELL, which RINGS PIERCINGLY.

Two shapes are visible under the bedclothes: One is a

great SNORING bulge, the other is a svelte and lithe

shape. As the BELL continues RINGING, the larger bulge

GRUNTS, MOANS, pulls a pillow over its head, and then

finally gropes under the bed for a slipper. The slipper

is thrown without aiming --

ducks just in time.   It wipes its forehead nervously.

He staggers back up to his perch, and then notices for

the first time that the dial on the side is pointed not

to "ALARM" but to "ALARM & RADIO." The WOODPECKER SIGHS,

looks over at the bed where SNORING is still emanating.

Then the bird swings a little telescope around to point

out the window.

as the 'SCOPE PANS and FOCUSES, finally SETTLING ON a

distant stone building marked RADIO STATION B-ROK.

Perched on top of the wooden radio tower are a monkey

and an octopus. The monkey holds up cue cards which the

octopus reads, and then waves nautical semaphore flags.

Our WOODPECKER squints, CLEARS his THROAT.

The big bulge GRUNTS and MUTTERS a bit, then one hand

gropes around, finds the curvaceous form under the

neighboring covers... feels it tentatively... then

the fingers "walk" upwards...

Those walking fingers have reached the top edge of the

covers... now they pull them down revealing the owner's

face... the face of Fred, his eyes at half-mast, his

face covered in fashionable "Bedrock Vice" stubble.

And he pulls the covers down to reveal -- DINO, who is

immediately "YI-YI-YI-YI-ING," hopping all over the bed

and showering Fred with sloppy kisses.

By now Dino's affection   attack has knocked both master

and pet to the floor in   a jumble of bedclothes, asses

and elbows. Dino begins    to roll Fred across the room

like a seal playing with   a ball.

Fred has now backed up to a dresser, where he grabs a

brightly-colored box labeled "PURINROCK DINO TREATS."

Fred holds it up -- Dino gets up on two legs, eager for

the treat -- Fred shakes the box... alas, nothing comes

out.

DINO "YI-YI'S" again, propelling Fred into the next room.

Five-year-old PEBBLES GIGGLES at the table as Fred and

Dino tumble into the room like Frank Buck and a lion.

Wilma turns at the noise. One look at her and we under-

stand Fred's romantic turn.

Saying this, Wilma puts   a huge egg at Fred's place.

Meanwhile, Fred manages   to get to his feet, holds out

one arm to keep Dino at   bay. Fred does a big "take,"

looking out the window   --

Pause.   Dino gives him a big look as if to say, "Oh,

yeah?"

"YI-YI-YI-YI," DINO is out the door like a rocket. Fred

cackles, slams it shut, then sits down at the table.

She puts two giant slices of bread into a toaster. Two

claw-like devices hold the toast, pulling it out of

sight.

And he grabs her and bites her and tickles her.

WHAM! Dino reappears, bounding through the window

and knocking Fred onto the floor. Once again Dino is

happily licking and loving and cuddling his callously

unresponsive owner. Fred struggles to avoid the

slurping tongue, pulls himself up to the window sill,

looks out.

"YI-YI-YI-YI!" DINO buys it again, runs to the door,

lets himself out. This time Fred puts a chair against

the door.

Meanwhile, Wilma turns at the sound of the TOASTER

POPPING UP. We see that the "claws" we saw earlier were

the actual claws of a LOBSTER in a little fireproof suit

who is tucked inside the toaster. As Wilma takes the

toast, the Lobster blows on his claws, wincing, then

looks TOWARDS the CAMERA.

Fred slaps jelly on the toast, takes a big bite, and then

something outside the window catches his eye.

A paperboy on a wood-and-stone bicycle is coming rapidly

towards the house. In the bike's basket is a stack of

dried, rock-hard clay tablets.

Fred leans out the window, waving his hands.

WHAM! Fred ducks back just as the stone newspaper slams

into the window frame, SMASHING a FLOWERPOT, taking out

a chunk of wall, and continuing diagonally through the

kitchen and out another window. Fred follows this

action in time to see --

The rock paper drops like a foul shot, rips through the

canvas roof of Fred's car, and then bangs a huge dent

in the hood.

Fred sighs, turns back to his breakfast.

He slices through the big egg with his knife -- releasing

a baby PTERODACTYL which SQUAWKS and flaps, knocking Fred

over as it takes off through the window.

Fred -- now dressed for work -- is forlornly trying to

fix his car.

In the neighboring driveway, Wilma and Betty pile the

kids into Betty's car.

Fred kisses them both and they drive off. Fred sighs,

tries to stretch the canvas roof edges close enough to

stitch. Nearby, Dino struggles to drag the stone news-

paper inside the house. The twin headlines are, of

course, KIBBLE CRISIS GROWS and MYSTERIOUS XENOSAURUS

STRIKES AGAIN.

Suddenly a pink flamingo appears over the hedge. As its

mouth opens and closes, it appears to be talking, but

the voice is that of --

Now we see that Barney is holding the flamingo's stiff

legs which he scissors, making the bird's beak trim the

hedge.

Fred pulls his car hood off of its wooden hinges,

examines it with dismay.

He uses the flamingo's jaws to snatch the car hood

from Fred's surprised grasp.

We can still see Fred's car in the neighboring driveway.

(We can also see Dino, who drags the newspaper on a

bit more, then collapses from exhaustion).

Barney's garage is cluttered with all kinds of odds and

ends, plus various inventions and scale models in

different stages of completion. (Interestingly, a

number of these anticipate Leonardo da Vinci's work).

Many of the models are made of a strange celadon green

material.

Fred watches, skeptical, as Barney presses the car hood

into some soft clay between two big blocks of stone.

He tosses the original car hood aside with a crash.

Then, moving rapidly, he starts heaving a variety of

ingredients into the reverse imprint of the car hood.

Barney dips a finger in this mess, "tastes" it;

satisfied, he yanks on a hanging rope and a giant rock

weight slams down on the whole mess, making Fred jump out

of his skin.

Fred is caked with dust.   He coughs and spits.

He stops as Barney cranks up the weight on a ratchet,

proudly lifts out a perfect (though greenish) duplicate

of the car hood. As Fred examines it, impressed despite

himself, we...

The two kids are in the back seat. Somehow both of the

kids' faces are messy again. Working together with

beautiful precision, they are carefully dismantling the

rear armrests and door handles.

They pull up in front of a pleasant-looking simple little

nursery school. MRS. GRANITE, a pleasant-looking 65, sees

them from the schoolyard, waves while Wilma and Betty un-

load the kids.

She wipes off Bam-Bam's mouth with a handkerchief. Wilma

does the same with Pebbles and then they kiss the kids,

who immediately run into the schoolyard.

From the schoolyard comes the sudden sound of KIDS QUAR-

RELING and then a THUD and some CRYING.

Wilma and Betty laugh.

Wilma and Betty straighten... salute.

As the three women laugh, we...

Fred and Barney drive along. (Behind them, the same

houses and palms seem to be going by... duplex, palm...

split level, two palms... duplex, palm).

Barney grins, gestures towards the front of the car.

He takes his hand off the wheel to hold up two fingers...

ends up swerving instead.

Barney looks glum, doesn't say anything.    Suddenly Fred

pulls over, stops the car.

They're at the crest of a high wide hill.

A look from one to another, and then down the hill...

Fred gets a malicious grin on his face.

The two pals laugh, and then    with a whoop they begin

pedalling like mad. They go     over the top, gravity takes

over and they are flying past    that billboard with all the

Rotary Club welcomes on it.     But now we see a different

sort of welcome, as a POLICE    CAR ZOOMS out from behind it.

Inside are SERGEANT FELDSPAR and his rookie partner,

OFFICER GRAVEL. Cackling with anticipation, Feldspar

opens a box marked radar detector. Out pops a little

bird in a police helmet. It has a stopwatch (actually,

stop-sundial) around its neck. Feldspar points -- the

bird salutes -- takes off!

Suddenly both Fred and Barney see the RADAR BIRD flying

alongside them. It checks its stopwatch, writes a note

to itself. Fred is so preoccupied he doesn't notice

as --

cuts in front of Fred. Fred SLAMS on the "BRAKES," sits

helplessly as Feldspar gets out, walks over, grinning.

Fred reaches down to the floorboard as he speaks...

There's a box there marked RADAR BUSTER.

Fred opens the box. A scary-looking winged reptile

sticks out its head, smacks its hungry lips.

Confident, Feldspar jerks a thumb at the Radar Bird,

turns to his rookie partner.

Gravel nods, steps towards the bird. The bird checks

its stopwatch... and then it notices the flying lizard

which is hovering nearby, licking its lips.

The Radar Bird flies away at a hundred miles an hour,

leaving a cloud of dust and the stopwatch behind.

Feldspar catches the watch, startled.

A new cloud of dust appears as Fred ROARS away.

Betty and Wilma   have just pulled up. We notice that next

to their legal   spot, a big limousine is parked in a "no

parking" zone.    But our law-abiding Betty in the next

space now drops   a stone coin in a parking meter.

Inside the window we see a LITTLE BIRD. It "bites" the

coin to check it, then turns over an egg timer.

It's absolutely   mobbed. Customers push past each other

with armloads of   food. Gigantic cuts of meat hang from

above or are on   display behind the counter. MORRIS THE

BUTCHER looks up   from the chaos and manages a weak smile

for the girls.

REVEALING MRS. SLATE, who stands there, impatient and

overdressed.

Wilma senses the tension, quickly steps forward to break

it with a smile.

Morris reacts with relief.    Mrs. Slate reacts with a

blank look.

She turns her back to Wilma, forces her way towards the

counter again. Wilma burns.

GINO turns, looks at his end of the counter.

Gino nods, smiling. He picks up a crate, begins to load

it with giant fryer parts and several manhole-sized meat

patties.

Mrs. Slate steps to the counter. Meanwhile, the staff

begin using a refrigerator dolly to bring out giant ribs,

steaks and sausages which they pile up in front of Wilma.

with a sigh, they buckle on elbow and knee protectors,

go to a side door, open it. Inside is another barred

door. They open it, go inside. Immediately we hear

loud SQUAWKING and CACKLING... THUDS, BUMPS...

Suddenly the barred door slams open and a      giant chicken-

saurus comes bounding out, with Morris's      staff hanging

all over it like rodeo cowboys. They try       and restrain

it with ropes but it's enraged and flops      around the

store.

Suddenly the chickensaurus snaps the ropes, flaps its

wings and leaps through the front window --

The huge bird lands with a crunch atop Mrs. Slate's car,

which is practically squashed flat. Then it disappears

around the corner. (We hear CAR HORNS and SKIDDING TIRES

as it goes.)

Wilma and Betty try and hide their laughter.

Clouds of dust rise from behind the fence. We see the

heads of the heavy equipment dinos rising and falling.

A two-story office building is at one end of the site

with a big "Slate Construction Inc." sign on the roof.

CAMERA ADJUSTS as Fred's car turns into the lot, Barney

seated beside Fred. The new green hood gleams in the

morning light.

Fred digs his feet into the ground, slams to a halt. He

gets out, surveys the activity. Immediately, the various

workers shout AD LIB greetings. Fred acknowledges these,

beaming in the respect he gets here.

He lovingly dusts off his construction helmet, puts it on,

knocks an offending speck from his parking sign (F.

Flintstone - Shop Steward). He leads Barney towards the

quarry area.

Fred stands near the weight station booth, where a plump

GIRL in a beehive hairdo sits inside a trailer.

She slams down two clay tablets and a stylus.

Fred smiles at her, hands the forms to Barney. Fres steps

towards the quarry, admires the activity, hands on hips,

master of all he surveys. He waves to more friends.

Fred beams at that, and then follows Barney's gaze to

the read-out on the truck scale. Fred is standing on it

and it's pushing 250. With a scowl, Fred grabs Barney's

sleeve and they go into the quarry. As they move, the

CAMERA PANS and CRANES UP TOWARDS the window of the

Slate Construction Office.

The room here is dominated by a tabletop architectural

model of a large scale construction project. There's

acres of little development houses, then some tall office

buildings, a mall, you name it: There's even little foot-

powered model cars in the model parking spaces.

Near this we see MR. SLATE, a giant in the Bedrock con-

struction business (but not in height). Slate drinks

coffee from a "Boss" mug, listens with growing impatience

to JERRY LAVA. Several of Slate's lackeys listen, their

heads nodding up or down in sympathy with Slate's mer-

curial moods.

Slate does a Danny Thomas spit take all over the model.

Fred and Barney cross the busy lot, sidestepping workers

and animals. Fred does a lot of backslapping, waving.

Barney's filling out the forms on the move. Behind them,

we see the wide access ramp which spirals around the

quarry's sides.

Hearing a loud SMASH, Fred looks up and sees --

A burly and rough looking guy named PILTDOWN, he grins in-

side his dino-topping cupola, winds his winch handles and

then propels his wrecking ball towards the...

-- where the huge stone BALL SMASHES into some walnuts

balanced on a boulder.

Piltdown's compact buddy PYRITE cackles, sweeps  up the

walnuts. Munching them, he balances a new one   in place.

(It should be noted here that the relationship  and physi-

cal appearances of Piltdown and Pyrite mirrors  that of

our heroes... they're sort of an anti-Fred and  Barney.)

Pyrite tosses a walnut, which bounces on the ledge.    The

wrecking BALL SMASHES into the stone wall.

Workers near Fred duck as dust and debris fall down.

People grab for their construction helmets.

Fred hustles up a ladder to a ramp which leads him up to

the level of Piltdown's cab. Barney hurries to follow.

He swings the wrecking ball again.

This time he's overdone it:   The wrecking ball flies past

the walnuts -- Pyrite ducks  for cover -- and then the

wrecking ball whips over and  around the handrail which

runs along here, twisting as  tightly as Indiana Jones'

whip. The handrail wobbles   dangerously in its

foundation --

SNORTS, backs up -- the crane SUPPORTS on its back begin

to CREAK and GROAN with the strain --

Workers scatter, fearful of the imminent collapse.   Fred

runs to grab the dino's reins.

He calms the beast by giving it a carrot.   As it munches,

Fred quickly ties the reins to a post.

Quickly the men form a circle around Piltdown and Fred.

Barney looks up and sees --

It is shuddering and threatening to come crashing down.

With much grumbling, ropes and grappling hooks are

gathered and the crew hops to it...

Slate stands in a blubbering fury as Lava mops coffee up

from the model and Slate's face.

Lava holds up a clay tablet covered with figures.

Slate glowers, paces around the model.

A LOUD COMMOTION outside the window attracts everyone's

attention.

All rush to the window.       They look out and see --

Supervised by   Fred, all    the workers are straining on the

ropes to haul   the rear    legs of the crane back into their

sockets on the   back of    the big dino. Only the last

critical rope   is still    dangling.

Barney scrambles up Fred's back, shoving a foot in Fred's

face, but finally snatching the rope. He pulls on it...

Fred throws his own weight into the effort...

THUDS into place on the dino's back -- the workers cheer --

alas, with its cable now twisted shorter, it's become an

immovable object, and as the shortened CABLE SNAPS, the

wrecking ball begins to roll down the quarry wall.

Men and ANIMALS YELP and dive out of the way as the BALL

rolls downwards, SMASHING everything in its path.

The executives watch concerned as --

tumbles down, down, knocking scaffolding and ladders

aside, reaches the end of a ramp, and drops through the

air right onto --

-- where, astonishingly, the HOOD sinks in resiliently

like a trampoline and then with a loud "SPROING" the

wrecking ball flies straight back up into the air,

followed a beat behind by the unhinged hood itself.

Both hurtle TOWARDS the CAMERA --

react fearfully as they realize all this is coming

straight for them. With a howl, they all dive aside --

The wrecking BALL flies through the window, SLAMS onto

Slate's desk, crushing everything in its path and then

sails on SMASHING right into --

-- where all of the lined up HIGH RISES SMASH ASIDE with

a sound like falling pins.

The workers pick themselves up and now their eyes follow

the path taken by the long-gone wrecking ball.

They rush for the office building.

Dust is still settling. The staff rises from the mess,

coughing. Lava rummages in the debris, finds a stiff

body.

But it's only a statue of a golfer from one of Slate's

trophies.

Slate's eyes fall on Fred's car hood, swinging from a

bookshelf. He reaches for it -- pulls it -- it stays

put, and only releases a new deluge of rubble and plaster

which reburies him. At the same time, the door slams

open and Fred, Barney and the other workers tumble inside.

As they take in the destruction. Barney notices the

wrecking ball amidst the model buildings. As we watch,

the last remaining little HIGH RISE FALLS.

Slate staggers to his feet, seething with fury. He

finally yanks the car hood free. It bounces and VIBRATES

in his hands like a hand saw.

A cacophony of voices starts to answer.

nudges the wrecking ball off the edge of the table. It

falls on Fred's foot. Fred starts to scream and Piltdown

shoves a pencil holder into his mouth.

Fred cringes.       Piltdown and Pyrite smirk.

It rebounds, "SPROINGING" him on the chin.        He recovers,

shakes it off.

Fred hisses between his teeth, repeats the "Slate and me

are just like this" gesture he made earlier, points at

Slate.

Slate nods, distracted, his eyes and hands running over

the smooth lines of the car hood.

They go out, Piltdown looking furious.

Slate's staff make disparaging noises.

Slate takes the piece of material, leans it on the table

so it catches the light. Despite himself, Lava comes

over, examines the car hood... can't help but marvel at

it as well. Meanwhile, Slate puts his arms around Fred

and Barney.

Lava glowers. Slate pulls Fred and Barney close with

genuine excitement.

He points to the translucent material. CAMERA TIGHTENS

ON it. We see Fred, Barney and Slate's reflections in it.

As HEROIC MUSIC STINGS IN, we...

Mrs. Slate is in back, crammed in with groceries. Betty

pulls up in front of a building that looks like a Palm

Springs spa. This is "L'ECOLE DES ENFANTS PREHISTORIQUE

HAUTE SUPERIOR."

And she's sashaying up the path.       Betty and Wilma burn,

then follow her.

As elegant as we can get MMMCXV years before Louis XIV.

As the three women come in, we see CHILDREN with alliga-

tors on their deerskin shirts singing:

The Headmistress reaches over, takes their hands

gracefully.

Mrs. Slate takes the parchment application. Meanwhile

the Headmistress looks appraisingly at Wilma and Betty.

And to Wilma's astonishment, Betty takes one of the

parchments.

She gives Mrs. Slate an even and controlled look, and

sends some of it over in Wilma's direction as well.

Wilma makes her choice, smiles tightly.

As Mrs. Slate reacts, we --

They're cruising along. Fred puffs on a cigar. Barney

flips the pile of legal sized tablets in his lap. In the

back seat are some boxes and bundles.

The girls' frowns are a great contrast to their husbands'

smiles. Wilma's looking at the school enrollment forms.

Betty paces, looks at the clock.

Betty smiles, touched.    Then reality intrudes again.

Suddenly the door bursts open.     Fred and Barney run in

with candy and flowers.

Pause.

Fred laughs good naturedly, grabs Barney in a headlock.

In reply, Fred whips a bottle of champagne into view.

This confuses the girls even more.

She closes her eyes, swings the enrollment forms over on

the table so that Fred and Barney can read them.

Fred and Barney look at them, look at each other... and

yawn.

They can't believe this.

He tosses his stone contracts on top of the parchment

ones with a THUD.

Wilma and Betty look at each other, then at the contracts.

They blink, look again.

Fred opens the champagne, which foams all over them.        The

girls squeal.

Barney squeezes back.

As they laugh and the girls slowly absorb the truth,

we --

A sign proclaims this as "GRAND BEDROCK LODGE -- LOYAL

ORDER OF WATER BUFFALO." The parking lot outside is full

of vehicles. We hear the sound of a GAVEL BANGING...

The members are milling about the main room, schmoozing,

drinking, kibitzing. All wear the furry and horned

ceremonial Fez of the Buffalo.

One wall of the lodge displays a big version of the lodge

coat of arms (with the motto "Ackus Ackus Adackus" below);

a trophy case holds a mind boggling display of various

bowling trophies, balls and pins. At the lectern, the

HERDMASTER (a mustachioed, inspirational type) bangs

again for order.

It quiets a bit. He clears his throat, raises his chin,

and gives a strange mournful bellow.

The entire Lodge dutifully imitates this gesture.

Barney stands, acknowledges his friends and Lodge

brothers.

Seated across the room with Pyrite and other cronies, he

immediately leaps to his feet, paws the ground, and gives

an eerie moan even stranger than the Herdmaster's earlier

call to order.

After the CRY ECHOES away:

Cheers go up, which drown out Piltdown's renewed cry of

the poisoned water hole. Fred moves towards the podium

as the noise dies down.

Barney moves to the wall, where he pulls a rolled up

tapestry from a hiding place behind a plant. He tacks it

to the wall, yanks a string. It unrolls. It's a big

"VOTE FOR FRED FLINTSTONE" poster.

Barney turns, gives Fred a "thumbs up," and as he does,

Barney's hand brushes against a folded parchment in his

pocket. Barney pushes his way through the seats, catches

up to Fred and hands him the document. Fred takes it,

continues up to the podium. There, the Herdmaster hands

Fred the ceremonial hoof and antler, crossed over each

other like a Pharaoh's badges of office.

Fred does a Papal-like wave with these, sets them down,

and unrolls the crib notes Barney gave him.

Applause follows Fred's return to the floor.

The only ones in their row not clapping, they scowl as

Fred passes them...

WIDEN as Barney propels   a bowling ball (stone, of course)

rumbling down the alley,   sending pins flying. The

Buffaloes cheer Barney's   strike. We notice that most (if

not all) of these Lodge   members also work at the quarry.

It descends.    It consists of a bent snout creature which

"cranks" down   a shelf with several monkeys on it. The

monkeys grab   the pins with their tails, straighten them

up. Then the    shelf cranks back up.

Now it's Fred's turn. He trots up to the line, bowls...

another strike! More cheers, AD LIB complaints, etc.

The scorekeeper picks up hammer and chisel and fills out

the last frame.

Fred leads the group over to the bar. Piltdown and

Pyrite come along with a shrug... why not, for a brew?

Fred reaches --

where he pulls out a hook-beaked little LIZARD --

Fred uses this creature to open several beers.

Fred tosses the "Opener" aside --

The critter bounces into the shelf, slides... when it re-

covers, it realizes that its overbite has been straightened

out by the impact. Very happy, it grabs a hat and coat,

exits.

He looks around, sees --

It's actually "dots" chipped into a stone. It shows the

young Fred, Barney and others gathered around soapbox

racers. A banner reads "Junior Buffalo Day."

Laughter. Fred accepts it good-naturedly, reaches into

his pocket.

Pyrite laughs, a bit too much.

He passes them out, and the others take them, curious --

Of course it's a little stone tablet... but it does

indeed say "SLATE CONSTRUCTION -- F. FLINTSTONE,

ASSISTANT JR. V.P. -- PUBLIC RELATIONS."

Saying this, he bites down on it... winces as a tooth

cracks.

tugs Fred's sleeve, pulls him close.

(Barney reacts to the "single-handedly" --)

Fred realizes Barney's got something on his mind.

Fred pulls Barney into a quiet corridor. They stand near

a trophy case. There's some bowling trophies here with

a variety of names on them. (There's also trophies for

"pie-eating contests" and "beer drinking chug-offs";

these have only Fred's name on them.)

Barney knits his brow in thought for maybe three seconds.

And a confident Fred shakes hands with an unsure "silent

partner"...

Barney comes out of his front door, heads toward the

neighboring driveway and Fred's car. Betty comes out,

calls to her husband.

He stops, turns. Betty comes over and we see he's wear-

ing a sports jacket and an abysmally-tied tie. Betty

fixes the knot.

She giggles, kisses him.

is at the car door, lunch pail in hand, when Wilma calls

out to him.

He returns to her, opens the pail, is surprised to find

it's empty. Before he can comment, she smilingly

presents him with a spanking new briefcase. "F.F" is

embossed on it in gold.

He opens it.    Inside is a huge drumstick and some ribs.

He moves to the car.

