Race picks up his               THAT MAKES IT TEN GAMES OUT

winnings and admires              OF TEN

the pile of change in

his hand.                                    RACETRACK

The wagon passes -- Jack, Mush and Crutchy get out.

David still hurrying -- Les slows to hop on a hopscotch

game chalked on the sidewalk. David grabs his hand and

pulls him on --

Kid Blink and his boys come out of an alley, joining Jack

and the others.

4/8/91 YELLOW                                              7.         *

As Jack sings, the boys             RESIST

listen carefully. They

all respect his opinion.                       RACETRACK

Jack and the others                            ALL BOYS

round a corner                    SUMMER STINKS AND WINTER'S

singing as they move                WAITIN'

through an alley filled           WELCOME TO NEW YAWK

with barrels.

PATRICK,                       JUST GIMME HALF A CUP

DARLING...

SINCE YOU LEFT ME              I GOTTA FIND AN ANGLE

I AM UNDONE                    I GOTTA SELL MORE PAPES

MOTHER                         PAPERS IS ALL I GOT

LOVES YOU                      WISH I COULD CATCH A BREEZE

GOD                            ALL I CAN CATCH IS FLEAS

SAVE                           GOD HELP ME IF IT'S NOT

MY SON                         SOMEBODY HELP ME PL --

PULL BACK to reveal                         ALL

entire square as Jack and      IF I HATE THE HEADLINE

the gang leave the wagon,      I'LL MAKE UP A HEADLINE

cross the square and head      AND I'LL SAY ANYTHING I HAFTA

for the gates of The World     'CAUSE AT TWO FOR A PENNY

Building, keeping their        IF I TAKE TOO MANY

eyes on the huge blackboards   WEASEL JUST MAKES ME EAT 'EM

over the street.                 AFTA

Newsies of all   ages and sizes appear from every conceiv-

able space and   line up outside the gates, waiting for

them to open,   anxiously praying for a good headline to be

chalked on the   boards overhead...

Two men climb ladders to the blackboards above the street

and start to write out headlines in chalk: "TROLLEY

STRIKE DRAGS ON FOR THIRD WEEK."

A GROUP of NEWSIES follow through an alley that leads             *

them to the square, where they see the men chalking up            *

headlines.

LOOK! THEY'RE PUTTING         WHAT'S IT SAY?

UP THE HEADLINE

YOU CALL THAT A HEADLINE?    THAT WON'T PLAY

I GET BETTER STORIES         SO WHERE'S

FROM THE COPPER ON THE       YOUR SPOT?

A GROUP OF NEWSIES cross the street and split up around           *

the statue as they walk into the square --                        *

I WAS GONNA START WITH       GOD IT'S HOT!

TWENTY

BUT A DOZEN'LL BE PLENTY     WILL YA TELL ME

HOW'S A GUY GONNA            HOW'M I GONNA MAKE ENDS

MAKE ENDS MEET?              MEET?

Jack and the gang join                     ALL

Newsies as they               WE NEED A GOOD ASSASSINATION

converge outside The World

gates, singing and yelling    WE NEED AN EARTHQUAKE OR A

at the men on the chalkboard.   WAR

One newsie yells out:                      SNIPESHOOTER

Mush jumps all over him:                   ALL

The Newsies sing at each other:

The Newsies line up outside the gate, singing:

SO WE'LL BE OUT THERE        DID YOU HEAR ABOUT THE

4/8/91 YELLOW                                            12.         *

For revenge, Oscar jerks Snipeshooter out of line and

propels him to the rear.

Oscar and Morris glare at the crowd, daring anyone to do

anything about it. Jack calmly walks Snipe back to his

place in line, then faces the Delanceys who try to stare

him down. The air is electric. Nearby --

The Newsies shake their heads.    Nearby the staring

contest continues until --

The brothers glower, look at each other, then back at

Jack, who grins at them.

Jack deftly reaches out both hands and flips the derbys

off both their heads. The brothers scramble for them

and the chase is on.

DANCE BREAK... The Delanceys chase Jack throughout the

square, entertaining the Newsies... a morning tradition.

The Newsies sing in counterpoint, underscoring the chase.

IT'S A FINE LIFE                LOOK! THEY'RE PUTTING UP

4/8/91 YELLOW                                            13.

CARRYIN' THE BANNER             YOU CALL THAT A HEADLINE?

THROUGH IT ALL                                                       *

A MIGHTY FINE LIFE              I GET BETTER STORIES FROM

CARRYIN' THE BANNER             I WAS GONNA START WITH TWENTY

TOUGH 'N' TALL

SEE THE HEADLINE?               HITCHED IT ON A TROLLEY.

NEWSIES ON A MISSION            MEET'CHA FORTY-FOURTH

KILL THE COMPETITION!           LITTLE ITALY'S A SECRET.

SELL THE NEXT EDITION           BLEEKER'S FURTHER THAN I

WHILE WE'RE OUT THERE           BY THE COURTHOUSE...

CARRYIN' THE BANNER IS          NEAR THE STABLES...

THE...

ANGLE - HORACE GREELY STATUE - DAVID AND LES

are just arriving, hurrying towards the gates on a

collision course with -- Jack who comes barrelling around

the statue and runs smack into David. For a moment,

everything stops -- Jack catches his breath, David looks

at him in outrage.

4/8/91 YELLOW                                              14.

He speeds on -- just as the Delanceys come thundering

around the statue, bowling David to the pavement. Les

looks at Jack as if he's watching Robin Hood and Br'er

Rabbit rolled into one.

ANGLE - NEAR GATES - JACK

keeps running, keeping just out of the Delanceys' grasp

-- but then he trips and they've got him. Morris lifts

him high into the air to smash him onto the cobblestones.

The crowd stops breathing -- but then --

Jack grabs the bars and like a monkey jerks free of the

bully's grasp. The kids howl, loving the show as Jack

avoids the brothers moving from bar to bar like Tarzan.

IT'S A FINE LIFE                   GO GET HIM, COWBOY!

CARRYIN' THE BANNER                YOU GOT HIM NOW, BOY!               *

IT'S A FINE LIFE                   GO GET HIM, COWBOY!                 *

CARRYIN' THE BANNER                YOU GOT HIM NOW, BOY!

The NUMBER ENDS (APPROXIMATE TIME: 7:15) and the moment

is broken when a BELL inside the World Building RINGS

OUT.                                                                   *

The Delancey brothers, reluctantly, give up the chase,

and back towards the entrance to the World gates.

The gatekeeper unlocks and swings open the huge gates.                 *

Jack hangs on.

Newsies yell out Jack's name as he rides the gates 'til

the last possible moment, then leaps into the back of a

wagon. Jack takes a bow as the boys cheer, moving into

line.

Les watches Jack, his new hero, as David pulls him along.

David is incredulous -- then sees Les by the boxers

moving up to a spectator, assuming a pathetic look.

He coughs, Camille-like. Makes the sale. Down the

sidewalk Jack nods approvingly; David is disgusted.

Les comes running back, wiping his mouth, with a

quarter.

Les' eyes go wide as he sees -- behind Jack -- a burly

Irish cop (MacSWAIN) hurrying up with a cadaverous vul-

ture of a man, SNYDER, who's pointing straight at them --

David starts to reply when he sees something behind Jack             *

that makes his mouth drop open. At the top of a short                *

flight of stairs, a vision is frowning down at them,                 *

speaking in a theatrical Swedish accent.                             *

She descends the stairs grandly, shooing them away like

pigeons. Jack turns to her and grins.

Surprised, she gasps in delight -- throwing her arms

around Jack. David can't believe it. Medda's accent

quickly disappears.

A Camille-cough.     Medda looks at him critically.

Jack and David talk; the family visible inside.

Inside, Esther is singing a lullaby to Les; Mayer calls

out to David.

Jack looks in at the warm family tableau: the lullaby,

Sarah reading to Mayer. David, going in, sees his

friend's expression.

David nods, climbs in the window.                                 *

Jack watches as David rejoins the family inside, the

warmth, the casual intimacy. He moves off, singing:

SONG:   "SANTE FE":   3:06

4/8/91 YELLOW                                             34.         *

Race and Kloppman exchange looks as Jack moves on --

Jack enters the empty room and walks past a row       of wash

basins to the last one. He reaches beneath it,        dislodges

a brick and removes a small box. In the box is        a tin

Prince Albert Tobacco can -- Jack puts today's       take

inside it. Then he removes --

-- a photograph: faded, dog-eared. Against a Coney

Island western backdrop, fake cactus, fake fence, a

smiling man and woman beam down at a small boy in a

cowboy hat -- it's Jack, about Les's age, with his

parents. Jack sits hunched under the basin, alone,

staring at it...

Pulitzer in his shirt-sleeves glowers impatiently as a

prim 1899-vintage numbers cruncher -- JONATHAN -- deliv-

ers the bottom line with charts, graphs, etc. Seitz

lounges, yawning.

Seitz sighs and reaches for the phone.

Jack bounces into the square, still   basking in the glow

of last night. He looks up to the    chalkboard and sees

the headline: "BLOODY BEATINGS IN    TROLLEY STRIKE!"

He grins, gives the high-sign -- a   very salable headline.

He moves on to --

Something's wrong -- angry shouts, arms waving.       Puzzled,

Jack shoves through the angry Newsies to --

Jack sees Weasel behind his window, grinning.

He plops fifty cents on the counter.      Weasel's grin

gets weaselier as he slides it back.

He whacks the bell with his cudgel; the Delanceys

stir threateningly.

He leads the angry Newsies out of the courtyard into --

The angry boys crowd around Jack.

They back off, become quiet -- every eye on Jack as he

thinks. And thinks again. And again. Finally --

Jack looks at him, then the others:    his jaw set.

Jack's moving across the square, everyone following,

cheering, a momentum building. David moves with him --

The gang is cheering every word; Jack stops at the base

of the Greeley statue, holds up his hands for quiet.

The Newsies are silent, faltering, suddenly uncertain.

Then a small figure steps forward and raises his fist:

The boys explode -- a beat begins to build --

Jack looks desperately at David:      what do I say now?

SONG:   "THE WORLD WILL KNOW"   APPROXIMATE TIME: 3:30.

The Delanceys close the              THAT    WE HAD TO CHOOSE

gates as Weasel glares out           THAT    THE THINGS WE DO TODAY

from the dock.                       WILL    BE TOMORROW'S NEWS

The Newsies interlock arms           AND THE YOUNG STAND TALL

forming a chain of                   AND THE TIME IS NOW

resistance and solidarity.           AND THE WINDS WILL BLOW

Jack, excited by his power, is in full charge now.

Suddenly they all look like they've got something else

to do.

David looks up; Jack grins, challenging him.       David comes

right back at him.

Jack looks at the huge doors of the World Building,

steeling himself. He starts for them, then has a thought

-- beckons to Les, who runs to join him, thrilled.

Shouting encouragement, the Newsies clear a path as Jack

and Les march up to the big doors. Jack pounds on them

and there's a hush as everyone waits, watching -- including

a handsome, well-dressed man in his thirties, BRYAN DENTON.

The huge doors swing open like the mouth of a whale and

Jack and Les disappear inside. The Newsies cheer.

Denton moves next to David.

Denton looks around, a little amazed.     He takes out a

notebook.

At that instant, the big doors swing open and Jack and

Les are spat out like two seeds.

The doors slam shut; Denton scribbles, intrigued.

Jack, David and Les devour a tray of sandwiches as Denton

takes notes. Newsmen at other tables glance over

curiously as Jack holds forth.

Denton smiles, closes his notebook.    Gets up, handing

David a card.

Denton smiles and shrugs.    David suspects Jack's thinking

of Snyder.

Jack, David, Boots are walking as we WIDEN OUT to reveal

the magnificent bridge against a dawn sky. They all seem

a little nervous.

Jack and Boots look at each other and laugh; they keep

laughing as they walk along --

We KEEP WIDENING as the figures get smaller and Jack and

Boots keep laughing and David keeps asking about Spot...

Some Newsies gather around, concerned.

Without Spot and the others,

there ain't enough of us...

He's swinging a picket sign.

He tears the sign off the stick and swings it like a bat.

He's waving the bedsheet with the scowling devil-mask of

"Joe P" painted on it. Jack smiles as Crutchy parades

with the banner, the other Newsies begin to notice.

Across the square, Denton lounges with his notebook,               *

studying the Newsies as if he, too, were concerned about           *

how serious they are.                                              *

David watches Crutchy parading with the bedsheet; other            *

Newsies put aside their marbles, hoops, etc., and watch.           *

Sensing a moment, David moves among them, beginning to             *

sing:

MUSIC CONTINUES as the gates swing open and wagons loaded

with papers, followed by the nervous non-striking

Newsies, are revealed. Weasel and the Delanceys carry            *

clubs...

-- Jack signals and Boots, Race and the boys loose a

volley of rotten fruit -- With a shrill cry, the Newsies         *

rush into the courtyard and leap onto the wagons --              *

Denton watches nearby, writing it all down.

David moves among the ranks of terrified non-striking

Newsies, exhorting them --

Many of them do -- ripping up their papers, shouting --

-- The Delanceys slog through a storm of rotten fruit;

cornering some Newsies by the wagons. They're raising

their clubs when --

-- Paint begins to dribble onto their heads -- they look

up and the whole bucket is dumped in their faces by

Crutchy. They lunge for him, dripping -- he ducks away,

poking at them with his crutch --

-- Jack and the others toss bundle after bundle of papers

from the wagons -- they're torn to shreds, tossed in the

air -- a blizzard of newsprint and then: SHRILL POLICE

WHISTLES --

He crouch-runs across the street David following

nervously.

GREEN 4/10/91                                            55.         *

David, looking around nervously, starts climbing after

him.

Jack and David creep along above some large barred

windows. Jack loops the rope around his waist, swings

over the edge --

David watches from the roof as Jack taps on a window.

An inmate, TENPIN, 9, looks up and grins.

Jack takes a railroad spike from his belt and begins

prying at the bars, talking conversationally up to

David who's terrified someone's going to hear them.

GREEN 4/10/91                                          57.         *

Crutchy hears something and quickly shushes them: Jack

disappears from the window; Crutchy slumps into a bunk

and pretends to sleep -- just as Snyder comes into

the room. Utter silence --

-- except for Snyder's FOOTSTEPS as he walks slowly down

the aisle between the bunks. He stops at the window, his

back to it. Crutchy sneaks open his eyes to see --

-- Jack, behind Snyder, swinging past the window, arms

stretched in a balletic arabesque --

-- Crutchy struggles not to laugh; Tenpin and some others

see what's going on. They all fight laughter as --

-- Jack swings back and forth behind Snyder, striking

difference poses as he passes the window: the breast

stroke, running on air, a bird with flapping wings...

-- From the roof, David looks down in disbelief: then

smiles -- nothing Jack does would surprise him any more.

-- Snyder glares suspiciously at the boys, sensing

something is going on. Behind him, Jack floats past

as an angel -- Snyder wheels around, looks --

-- but the window is empty. Puzzled, he walks out

of the room. The instant he's gone, the boys explode

in stifled laughter. We MOVE IN ON Crutchy as he

laughs until the tears come...

Jack and David move down the deserted street.

-- Waiters bring trays of sasparilla and cold cuts --

everybody talks at once --

Loud cheers.

Denton smiles; Jack is in the center, trying to keep

cool.

David sees him take money out of the Prince Albert can.

She looks back out at the stage; Jack pulls David away.

Then --

Jack looks at her, smiles. He tries to put his money

in her hand: she refuses it.

She winks at David and moves off to the stage.   Stricken   *

to the core, David watches her begin to sing.               *

Mush painstakingly charcoals "NEWSIES RALLY -- IRVING

HALL" on a piece of cardboard. Newsies are scattered in

the lobby making handbills, signs, posters. Kloppman

comes in and stops short, seeing a dark figure at his

counter, going through his register.

The figure turns -- Snyder smiles his smarmy smile.

The boys look up, alert.   Kloppman dislikes Snyder on

sight.

Behind Snyder, they see Jack bouncing in the front door.

Racetrack tries to signal him --

Jack sees Snyder -- but instead of running back out the

door, he can't resist mocking him behind his back. The

Newsies snicker; Kloppman is dying.

He tries to move Snyder away, silently imploring Jack to

go -- but Jack takes his time, picks up a leaflet, elabo-

rately approves it, pockets it and strolls out, blowing

good night kisses. The Newsies crack up -- Snyder wheels

around suspiciously. Racetrack thrusts a leaflet in his

face.

Snyder tries to look around the leaflet -- then it

catches his eye: "RALLY AGAINST PULITZER." He takes it

thoughtfully, making a connection. Smiling dangerously,

he digs out a penny and drops it in the surprised

Racetrack's hand.

The orange glow of a sunrise is reflected in the window.

Sarah appears inside, in a modest nightgown. She opens

the window and breathes in the morning air. Then she

sees Jack hunched against the wall on the fire escape,

shivering.

She glances back in the apartment.

She pops back inside.    He shrugs, climbs onto --

Jack stretches, shadow-boxes:       something crackles in his

pocket -- the rally leaflet.

He's looking at it thoughtfully as Sarah climbs up behind

him in a shawl, with a bundle. She sees the leaflet.

She unfolds the bundle to reveal a breakfast of bread and

milk. He digs in hungrily.

They're smiling, their faces close; for an instant, a

kiss seems inevitable. But suddenly a gust of wind

catches the leaflet and sails it off the rooftop. Jack

lunges for it -- knocking over the milk, squashing the

bread with his elbow. He looks up at her sheepishly.

Sarah giggles.       The leaflet gyrates in the wind as we

GO TO --

Another leaflet reading "RALLY AGAINST PULITZER" (the one

Snyder took at Kloppman's) is in Pulitzer's hands as he

listens to MAYOR VAN WYCK, very nervous. Nearby is

POLICE CHIEF DEVERY.

Pulitzer looks as if he knows something they don't.

4/19/91 CHERRY                                          71.          *

Pulitzer dismisses them and they start out, Snyder oozing

backwards, the Mayor now all business with Chief Devery.

As they go, Pulitzer picks up his magnifying glass and

examines the leaflet. We CUT AWAY as he stares through

the glass so he seems to be looking at --

Boots FILLS the SCREEN as he shouts --

Swarms of excited Newsies engulf Boots as     he pretends to

hawk the imaginary headline. They cascade      toward the

entrance where Jack and David shake hands,     slap backs as

they flow past. Kloppman goes past, then      Denton. Sarah

and Les are nearby.

Boys swarm into the seats, filling the theater -- down

front, the pit band plays a spirited tune.

4/19/91 CHERRY                                      72.

as a butler passes cigars in a silver humidor to five

men in formal clothes around a table as Pulitzer breaks

the seal on a deck of cards. The Mayor is next to him.

The room is cavernous, austere.

GAMMON, a portly fop in muttonchops, shakes the Mayor's

hand.

They all light cigars as Pulitzer begins to deal.

The place is packed. The band plays and a thundering            *

cheer goes up as Jack, David, and Spot Conlon leap on

the stage. Jack raises his hand and the noise subsides,

the band stops. Everybody looks at Jack -- expectant

silence. He lets it build for a moment, then --

The noise threatens to blow the roof off the theater as

we see --

BACK TO SCENE

Loud voices, fists starting to fly, chaos --

He looks out at the crowd; the expectant faces, waiting,

afraid it's all going to fall apart. Then back at Jack.

Spits in his palm and they shake. A huge roar goes up

and the boys thrust their hands up in triumph -- but

the applause isn't for them but for the curtain rising

behind them revealing the dazzling vision of Medda,

who walks smiling downstage and begins --

They roar; Racetrack's on his feet --

(CONTINUES -- SONG)

Medda moves through the crowd:

Lookit me, I'm a bird, I'm flyin',

I'm flyin' --

Boots beams happily as she moves to --

She turns to a little boy and sings --

The boys boo and hiss.

Medda and dance girls start it but the boys quickly join

in -- belting out the lyrics with one great swelling

voice, together, celebrating --

4/19/91 CHERRY                                         76.

The SONG fills the hall as Jack, happy and proud, sees

Sarah smiling at him, reaches out his hand and pulls her

on stage. David is watching this when someone signals

him -- Denton, who points his finger at --

Snyder    edging closer to Jack, checking the time on his

pocket    watch. He has something in his  hand -- a tin

police    whistle. He puts it to his lips  and is about to

blow it    when Denton moves up behind him and --

Snyder nearly swallows the whistle --

Snyder blinks at him, glances at his watch, then lowers

his police whistle, smiling modestly.

ON STAGE

David tries to move to Jack to warn him but Race and the

others have formed a chorus line and drag him into it.

David shouts over the song --

Jack can't hear over the song but Snyder does --

Furious, Snyder blows the police whistle for all he's

worth. Instantly police burst in from every door -- all

converging on Jack. Immediately he leaps off the stage

into the arms of several boys below -- then fights his

way out the front door --

A dingy room filled with dusty light.   A BAILIFF

announces --

Weasel is in the gallery as JUDGE MOVEALONG MONAHAN,

hungover, winding a pocket watch, takes the bench and

glances down at a group of battered Newsies, including

Spot, Race, and Boots.

David sees Denton come in, a neat bandage on his head.

The Newsies congratulate Spot.    Monahan gavels.

The Newsies mob Denton boisterously.                             *

They laugh and clap his shoulders as he looks uncomfort-

able. Suddenly David gasps, seeing Jack led out in

shackles, his face bruised and swollen. Everybody

stares, horrified.

Jack is stunned, David bewildered, as Denton turns

abruptly and leaves the courtroom. The Bailiff shoves

Jack in front of the bench. Snyder slips in from a side

door.

David, the Newsies, are stunned as Snyder continues.

The Newsies shout angrily as Jack is led away,

struggling. Weasel slips out the door, smiling.

David, Spot, Race, Mush, Boots, Blink pick dispiritedly

at a plate of knockwurst. Les, hungry as always,

finishes a large sausage and takes another as he listens.

Spot sighs:   he hates having to explain the obvious.

As he starts out, he passes Denton, coming in. Denton

hardly notices him as he moves up to the table and is

greeted (AD LIB) by the boys. He seems grim, bitter.

They exchange puzzled looks.    David sees Denton's

expression.

Denton forces a breezy tone.

He moves off; David, stunned, hurries after him.

He looks at David; hurt, betrayed, angry; wishes there

was more he could say. He hands him something from his

coat.

He hands it to David and   goes. David returns to the

others, angrily crumpling   the story and hurling it onto

the table. The boys look    puzzled; Les, still eating

the sausage, picks up the   story and looks at it

curiously.

4/19/91 CHERRY                                          85.

David watches as Jack is led inside by Snyder.

A butler leads Seitz, Snyder and Jack across a marbled

floor, their FOOTSTEPS ECHOING in the luxurious hall.

Seitz shows   him into an elegant library. Snyder tries to

follow but   Seitz stops him, closing the doors. Inside,

Jack looks   around to see the imposing figure of Pulitzer

staring at   him, framed by luxurious furnishings. For a

moment, the   two just stare at each other. Then --

The Driver strolls around the rear of the carriage --

just as David slips beneath it and begins to crawl care-

fully toward the front. Finding the lynch-pin that

hitches the horses to the carriage, he reaches for it --

just as the horse snorts and pulls the carriage forward a

few steps. The Driver hurries back to the reins. With

the Driver's boots a few inches from his face, David

waits for another chance...

Pulitzer paces, watching Jack look at the books, the

art, at framed front pages; headlines of the world's

great events...

Pulitzer ignores the impudence, continues quietly.

Jack is silent, troubled.    Pulitzer pushes a buzzer.

David is hiding by the gates with the lynch-pin in his

hand. Snyder is waiting by the carriage. The front door

opens -- Seitz and Jack walk out and appear at the top of

the entrance stairs. David calls out --

David moves among them, looking like a leader now.

The gates open, the wagons start out, followed by nervous

scabs flanked by cops and goons. The chant builds as the

scabs parade by, then suddenly --

David and the others look in disbelief -- walking with

the scabs is Jack, wearing a tight new suit, flanked by

Weasel and other goons. As Jack moves past, staring

straight ahead, the chant dies...

Spot tries to bust through the goons but they hurl him

back. David, confused, angry, runs alongside Jack,

shouting across the smirking Weasel as they march

along --

David lunges for him and Weasel grabs him, hissing.

David twists away, tries to rally the Newsies.

Some chant halfheartedly, confused, demoralized. A few

toss down their picket signs in disgust. David moves

among them, desperately trying to keep the chant going.

The scabs move on, passing Les, who gives Jack a stricken

look as he moves away.

David sits in the window, brooding.

Mayer is removing the bandage from his injured hand,

helped by Les. Sarah and Esther work on lace piecework.

Mayer flexes his fingers, pale from being bandaged so

long.

PINK 3/28/91                                           93.

He gets his coat; Sarah, looking for something, finds a

stained paper package under a sewing basket.

He grabs the package and unwraps it -- revealing a half-

eaten knockwurst -- throwing the wrapping on the floor.

Irritably Sarah starts to throw it away when she sees it

has writing on it.

Mayer smiles and goes.     Sarah moves to David with the

stained papers.

David refuses to listen; he angrily steps out on the fire

escape and stares off into the city. Sarah keeps reading

to herself. What she reads disturbs her.

4/19/91 CHERRY                                        95.          *

He opens a door and they enter --

Weasel lights a lantern and Jack sees a wooden bed,

an old printing press, junk, all covered with dust.

He goes. The great PRESSES THUNDER heavily somewhere in

the building above, like a judgment. Jack looks at the

bleak room, buried in dust and noise.

With the other scabs, Jack steps up for his papers.

Weasel shows his usual charm.

Jack ignores him, moves off with his papers. The

Delanceys pass by; Morris grinning at him, bouncing a

club in his hand.

He backhands Morris in the chops and they move on.    Jack

starts after them, alarmed -- then he sees Weasel.

4/19/91 CHERRY                                         96.         *

Jack stops, torn.    He nods meekly, moves off.   Weasel

looks satisfied.

Sarah, with a basket of lacework, is coming down the

street, Les dawdling behind, in a bad mood.

He stops to kibbitz a game of marbles in an alley.

Sarah walks on -- suddenly a man steps in front of her.

She tries to step around him but Morris is there. He

"accidentally" knocks her lacework into the gutter. Les

sees it -- and races towards the Delanceys --

He flails at Morris -- who effortlessly shoves him flat

on his bottom and turns, grinning, to Sarah.

On "ape," she socks him square in the grin -- he recoils,

licking a bloody lip. Behind him, she sees David

rounding the corner --

Oscar grabs Sarah from behind and lifts her up, taunting.

David, furious, runs down the sidewalk towards them.

Morris slips on some brass knuckles in anticipation.

Sarah struggles, screaming --

Oscar hangs on to Sarah, enjoying himself -- suddenly,

from behind, two hands grab the rim of his derby and jerk

it down to the bridge of his nose. Blinded, he releases

Sarah and staggers around, trying to pry the hat off his

eyes. Les looks up to see --

Jack flashes him a grin        as he works on Morris's bread

basket. Just as Oscar         frees himself from the derby,

David leaps on him like        a fury. Punches fly and the

Delanceys beat a quick        retreat down the sidewalk, yelling

back --

But they're the ones running. David, catching his

breath, looks at Jack, beginning to understand.

Jack shrugs, smiles.      David looks at him worriedly.

4/8/91 YELLOW                                          103.

Denton finds the type-

font: David is ready to

ink the rollers. A NOISE

O.S. makes them freeze.

Jack puts his finger to                      DENTON

his lips; hoists Les up to     WHO'S THAT?

the window to be a lookout.

David tosses some candles

to Sarah; she lights them                    DAVID

for Denton as he works.        NICE CATCH.

Jack finds a roll of

newsprint.                                  JACK

4/8/91 YELLOW                              103A.

CHOKE IT               GUESSES

CHEESE IT              THEIR PRESSES

PINK 4/1/91                                              104.

SOME THINGS                      SMART WE AIN'T

ARE WORTH TRYING FOR

SOME DREAMS                      MOM WOULD FAINT

ARE WORTH DYING FOR

AND THE WORLD WILL KNOW          NOW WE HAVE TO WRITE A HEADLINE

WHAT WE'VE COME TO SAY           DENTON OUGHTA DO IT

AND THEY ALL REMEMBER US         SOMETHING REALLY FLASHY

AND TALK ABOUT THE NIGHT         SO EVERYONE REMEMBERS

WE SEIZED THE DAY                THAT KIDS FROM EVERYWHERE

During the above, Sarah holds a candle for Denton as he

sets a headline in very large type: HOW WE CAN SHOW

THIS CITY -- David has a better idea: he grabs some type

and resets the headline: HOW WE CAN STOP THIS CITY.

Meanwhile, Jack hits the switch and the PRESS HUMS to

life.

HAILIN' FROM CANARSIE            SOFTER

BENSONHURST AND CHELSEA          KEEP IT QUIET NOW

ASTORIA AND BRIGHTON BEACH       FASTER

The boys are silent, disappointed, feeling alone and

defeated.

Then Les steps forward, a defiant look on his face,

glaring at the goons beyond the gates. He sings out

loud and clear --

REPRISE:   "AND THE WORLD WILL KNOW"

A group of   Factory Boys                    RACETRACK

appears in   the square;        NO!

followed by   others. The       WHAT IF THE DELANCEYS COME

boys begin   to take heart --   OUT SWINGING, WILL WE HEAR

More kids are appearing;        SINGING, WHO CAN HEAR A LOUSY

messengers, garment girls,      WHISTLE BLOW?

kids of all kinds --

Kids are coming from everywhere, filling the   square --

Spot and the Brooklyn Newsies; more and more   kids,

cheering, waving the Newsie News -- Jack and   David laugh

in triumph as shouting and MUSIC RISES UP TO   --

The SONG RESONATES in the golden dome; Pulitzer stares

down at the crowd as the mayor, sweating as usual, waves

the Newsies' paper at him. Seitz sits reading a copy,

impressed, as Jonathan fields phone calls.

GOLDENROD 4/12/91                                    113.         *

Race, Boots, Les, etc. unpacking rotten fruit, getting

ready for action. They see several police moving into

the square -- including a paddy wagon.

The others nod agreement -- but where is he?   Then they

see --

Behind Weasel and the line of goons Jack and David are

approaching, beaming in triumph. Seitz is with them.

Les quickly slips through the bars, running to tell Jack

-- but Weasel grabs him, shoves him back roughly --

Weasel, surprised, sees Jack behind him.

A tomato hits him in the face; he turns to see Les wiping

tomato juice off his hands.

Triumphant, Jack hoists Les over his shoulders:

A huge roar goes up outside the gates -- they swing open

and the Newsies swarm in, engulfing Weasel and the

Delanceys -- trying to look like part of the gang -- as

they rush to mob Jack and David. Jack spots Sarah --

she's waving and pointing in alarm at something.

Jack sees several police shoving through the crowd toward

him. He quickly deposits Les -- turns to run and sees --

-- Snyder right in front of him, hands behind his back.

Jack spins away and right into the arms of --

Jack looks again and sees Snyder's hands are handcuffed

behind him; two cops have him in custody. Denton is

there, smiling.

Jack watches, amazed, uncomprehending,    as the cops move

Snyder to the paddy wagon. As the rear     doors are opened,

several boys pile out -- former inmates    of the Refuge,

including Tenpin. As Snyder is loaded     in, the last boy

is coming out, crutch first --

He points O.S. -- Jack turns to see --

ELEGANT COACH

parked across the square. A Rough Rider opens the door

and a man leans forward -- a glimpse of silk hat and

walrus mustache as Teddy Roosevelt raises his walking

stick in salute to Jack across the square.

BACK TO SCENE

Jack is awestruck; so are the other Newsies gathering

around. Denton moves up to Jack.

Jack looks at the coach, torn. Boots holds the bundle of

belongings he gave him earlier. Suddenly Jack decides,

snaps his fingers, Boots tosses him the bundle.

Denton moves off toward the coach. David, Sarah, Les

look stunned, dismayed -- Jack avoids their eyes. Behind

them, the BELL RINGS, the circulation window opens for

business -- a crowd of Newsies races to line up. The

gang looks at them hungrily, eager to return the work.

They look at Jack.

He shakes; the others crowd around. David looks on, left

out for the moment; Sarah and Les beside him.

Crutchy hobbles off to the dock. Jack looks off at the

waiting coach, then holds out his hand to Les, who runs

up and clings to him.

