SEQ. 125 - ALONE IN THE WORLD

The silhouette of a body appears as it drifts into a ray of

light, refracted through water, which turns into...

A MOON - SEEN IN REFLECTION ON A SHEET OF ICE

The moonlight intensifies almost magically, and the ice above

begins to spider-web and crack.

EXT. FROZEN POND - NIGHT

Snow-covered trees in every direction. The ice in the pond

continues to crack, until finally a hole splinters open. A

young man floats out of the water, bathed in the intense

moonlight. This is JACK FROST - thin, pale, barefoot, his

tousled hair frosted white.

Jack floats back down onto the ice as the hole closes up

underneath him.

Jack looks around, confused, then turns toward the moonlight

as it dims a bit.

Jack carefully treads across the ice until he hits something

with his feet. He looks down, and at his feet is a wooden

staff. Curious, he picks it up. Almost immediately the

staff begins to glow a cold blue in his hands. Odd.

Jack almost drops it as the base of the staff comes in

contact with the ground. Frost shoots out and spreads across

the ice. Jack is visibly confused.

He touches a few trees with his staff sending frost up their

trunks. Then he swings the staff again, more confident, as

he begins to run across the frozen pond.

Another swing, and a gust of wind swirls him high up into the

air. Jack floats for a moment only to fall back down to

earth and into the trees. Jack grabs hold of a tree branch

and pulls himself up to see a small town off in the distance.

EXT. BURGESS SETTLEMENT - TOWN CENTER - CONTINUOUS

A collection of simple timber houses with thatched roofs.

Jack comes in for a landing, and it's a rocky one. He stands

up, still elated, and brushes himself off.

As Jack makes his way into town, settlers are warming their

hands by campfire. Jack doesn't recognize anyone.

The settlers walk past Jack, not noticing him. Jack crouches

down as a YOUNG BOY runs toward him.

The boy runs right through Jack, as if he were a ghost. Jack

staggers back in shock. He's speechless, as if the wind had

been knocked out him. His emotions causing it to snow.

Townsfolk continue to pass through Jack, unaware of his

presence. Shaken, Jack turns and retreats into the forest.

We pan up as the moon shines down over the snow covered

trees.

SEQ. 175 - INTRO TO NORTH

EXT. NORTH POLE - DUSK

FIERY GYPSY VIOLIN MUSIC as we move through clouds to reveal

a MASSIVE ICE CANYON, and just around a bend, the incredible

hidden fortress of NORTH, aka SANTA CLAUS.

INT. NORTH'S WORKSHOP - DUSK

We glimpse a familiar-looking RED JACKET and CAP with white

trim on a coat hanger just as a pair of tongs SLAM a block of

ice onto a stone work table--

IN QUICK CUTS: A CHAINSAW shears the block in half, spraying

ice. North lifts up the chainsaw revealing a massive tatoo

on his arm, the word NAUGHTY clearly visible.

Three ELVES huddle in a doorway around a plate of cookies,

each licking their own tasty morsel.

As North crosses the background, the elves lower the cookies

from their mouths, their faces frozen in fear.

The elves duck out of the way as North launches himself

across the floor on his rolling chair -- CLOSE as his huge

HAND gropes furiously among his WORK TOOLS, finally grabbing

a miniature HAMMER. As North's humming along with his music,

delicately CHISELING into the ice, we see a second arm sleeve

tatoo, the word NICE clearly visible--

His INTENSE BLUE EYE magnified in a JEWELER'S EYEPIECE -- a

delicate SCULPTING TOOL cuts fine details into the ice--

His hands place the finished piece on a curving ICE TRACK: An

ice LOCOMOTIVE. It belches ice vapor and chugs down the

track, picking up speed--

North's hand grabs a cookie from a plate held up by the two

Elves.

One of the elves gives his cohort a look and points to the

plate as it chews with a mouth full of food, to which it then

unfurls its tongue and lets the half eaten morsels spill out

onto the plate.

He takes a bite and leans toward the ice track. He chuckles

as the train hits a loop, and launches off a ramp into midair

-- then WINGS unfold -- JET ENGINES sprout and ignite and the

train lifts off the track--

Suddenly, the DOOR is thrown open by one of North's concerned

YETIS, sending the flying ice locomotive skidding across the

floor in pieces.

The yeti cries out covering his mouth in shame. North cries

out, devastated. The yeti, equally emotional, lets out

another whimper. North looks down at the broken toy and

takes a moment to collect himself.

North leaps up -- draws a HUGE SCIMITAR from its sheath and

INT. NORTH'S GLOBE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A sea of tiny BELLS on the heads of panicking elves part as

North's huge boots stomp through.

He pushes his way past a couple of his YETI WORKERS --

they're looking up in fear at -

THE GLOBE OF BELIEF

Covered with LIGHTS blanketing the continents. But North

notices that all at once, HUNDREDS OF LIGHTS suddenly go out.

Now MORE LIGHTS, in GREATER NUMBERS, as if something is

snuffing them out by the thousands. North's concern grows.

Before the Yeti can finish, a WIND whips up from out of

nowhere -- North stares in outrage as a blanket of SWIRLING

BLACK SAND, crawls over the lights, and shrouds the ENTIRE

GLOBE in inky DARKNESS--

The elves scurry in a panic, then all at once the BLACK SAND

WHOOSHES UP off the Globe -- rushes up through the ceiling as

the remaining sand bursts into a puff of smoke and dissipates

into the air --

As the wind dies, the scattered pieces of debris settle to

the ground, and the globes lights come back on, North whirls

to see a HUGE SHADOW flash across the floors and curving

walls of his fortress. It quickly disappears, leaving

nothing but the distant ECHO of...LAUGHTER?

North is frozen, looking up into the darkness, gravely:

A group of elves step forward gleefully pointing to

themselves, as if they're all "Dingle". The excitement

quickly turns to confusion.

North reaches out for a large EMERGENCY LEVER, TWISTS and

The Globe pulses with ENERGY, which lights up and ZOOMS UP

the AXIS SHAFT toward the roof--

EXT. NORTH POLE - CONTINUOUS

From the tallest spire of North's fortress, NORTHERN LIGHT

ENERGY radiates outward: for the first time in decades, the

GUARDIANS' CALL GOES OUT!

SEQ. 225 - GUARDIANS GATHER

INT. CHILD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A little fairy, carrying a coin, flies above the head of a

sleeping child. She quickly ducks under the pillow and comes

out the other side with a tooth in hand.

EXT. TOOTH'S PALACE - DAY

Hundreds of fairies fly toward a hollowed out mountain, this

is Tooth's palace and it's a majestic site.

INT. TOOTH'S PALACE

Dozens of tiny FAIRIES flit about. Teeth are filed away in

tiny wooden drawers. Coins are handed out.

A hive of activity, and at the center a winged figure barks

out orders like a harried air-traffic controller. This is

TOOTH. A Mini Tooth Fairy flies up to Tooth as thousands of

tiny MINI TOOTH FAIRIES continue their work behind them.

And suddenly everything stops. Tooth whips around, and we

finally see her beautiful FACE.

She's holding up a little tooth, and gazing at it with dreamy

adoration. The surrounding fairies tweet with excitement.

The fairies' tweets turn to concern, turning Tooth's

attention to North's AURORA SIGNAL stretching across the sky.

She gasps, and flies off like a rocket toward the source of

the signal, accompanied by a few of her ranking fairies.

Much of this we hear over the following...

EXT./INT. CHILD'S BEDROOM

We pull out from the face of a sleeping child to reveal a

stream of sand swirling overhead. It's a dream and it's taken

the shape of a child playing soccer.

We FOLLOW the Dreamsand stream out his window and up into the

sky where we see DOZENS of strands of sand descending to

earth. Keep following up, through majestic CLOUDS...

...to reveal a small, GLOWING GOLDEN CLOUD of Dreamsand

shimmering among the clouds, trailing the golden threads.

The strands are being controlled by a small portly figure,

THE SANDMAN. Suddenly, North's emergency signal zips by. The

Sandman turns to look and his eyes narrow, visibly concerned.

Sandy closes his eyes and in an instant the Dreamsand cloud

suddenly SWIRLS around him, changing form into a small

BIPLANE, with Sandy in the cockpit. He BARREL ROLLS the

plane into a dizzying dive through the spectacular cloudscape

and flies off into the distance.

Much of this we hear over the following...

INT. EGG TUNNEL

A few EASTER EGGS pop up out of the ground; their little legs

carry them out of the way of a fast approaching object.

Speeding along through a subterranean tunnel, we can barely

keep up with a DIMLY-LIT FIGURE as it races at blinding

speed, leaping and zigzagging through a series of TUNNELS --

EXT. A SNOWY EXPANSE IN THE NORTH POLE

A hole opens in the snow, and a pair of rabbit ears pops out.

A huge rabbit climbs out and brushes off the snow, annoyed.

The six foot tall figure is BUNNYMUND.

He shivers with cold, then goes slogging through the snow.

In the distance is North's ornately decorated and dimly lit

palace built into the side of a mountain of ice.

SEQ. 250 - THE CEREMONY

INT. GLOBE ROOM - NIGHT

Sandy's biplane circles the massive chamber, leaving trails

of Dreamsand.

Sandy descends from the plane and floats to the ground. He

joins North, Bunny and Tooth as they walk through the Globe

Room. Sand glyphs appear above Sandy's head communicating

that he is busy and has a lot of work to do.

North, Bunny, Tooth and Sandy reach the center of the room.

Tooth does her best to shush her mini-fairies.

North points to the globe. The other Guardians turn to look.

Bunny turns to Sandy, who shrugs while forming a Dreamsand

question mark above his head.

Bunny goes back to painting one of his Easter eggs.

North grabs Bunny's painted egg, casually juggling it in his

hand as he walks off. Meanwhile Sandy, who is being served

eggnog by a yeti, suddenly notices something high above.

The moon rises into view, high up in the ceiling; its rays of

light begin to shine brightly through as they cascade down

the walls of the globe room.

Sandy points to the moon unsuccessfully to get the others'

attention.

Sandy puts his fingers in his mouth to whistle, a silent

musical note forming above his head.

Sandy waves a sand flag above his head, pointing and jumping

up and down as the moonlight continues to fill the room.

Sandy tries to signal with a golden arrow, pointing toward

the ceiling, but to no avail as the others continue their

bickering. Sandy thinks Tooth has noticed for a split

second, but then -

Sandy can't take it anymore, grabs an elf by his hat, and

vigorously shakes it's bell. The other Guardians are finally

silenced and all turn to look at Sandy, who points up, a sand

crescent moon forming above his head. The dizzy elf staggers

away. Finally the others turn to see the shaft of moonlight

as it concentrates on the circle between them.

Sandy gives him a deadpan stare, Dreamsand smoke shoots out

his ears.

Everyone looks to the center of the intense spot of

moonlight, the light ebbs away, leaving a dark spot --

-- which resolves into the shadowed silhouette of PITCH. The

Guardians look on, stunned.

North pats his belly and gives Bunny a look.

In answer, the shadow of Pitch disappears and the circle of

moonlight intensifies and SHRINKS, concentrating further

illuminating an ORNATE SYMBOL on the floor, at the center of

their circle. The symbol rises out of the ground revealing a

large gem at the head of a pillar.

The moons light suddenly refracts through the gem casting

light all over the chamber.

A Dreamsand Four-Leaf clover forms above Sandy's head.

Then A BRIGHT FLASH, a rush of WIND - and a FIGURE resolves

over the central pillar: slight, hooded, bearing a familiar

hooked STAFF.

The Mini-Teeth all sigh and swoon as the Guardians stand

there, stunned.

This stops Bunnymund in his tracks.

As we turn toward the face of the hooded figure.

SEQ. 600 - SNOWBALL FIGHT

EXT. ST. PETERSBURG - NIGHT

A hooded figure with a familiar looking staff rests atop a

Post Office box on the opposite end of the street. The man

touches the staff to the ground, sending a streak of frost

across the street.

A RUSSIAN BOY approaches a water fountain, turns the handle

and moves in for a sip. But as he does, the water freezes

magically, and the boy's tongue is stuck to the frozen water.

His friends can't help but laugh.

A mail man walks across the street and a PATCH OF ICE

magically appears under his feet. He scrambles, and BOOM! -

lands on his butt. Just behind the man, we see the TRAIL OF

FROST climb up the side of a building. We stay on the frost

as it moves up along a rain pipe, and through the windows we

see...

A boy try to feed his gold fish, but a layer of ice suddenly

forms along the water surface and prevents the fish from

reaching its food. We move along the side of the building...

A writer in his study sits next to stacks of papers. The

window suddenly swings open and a gust of wind sends the

pages flying out the window. We move along the building,

across clothes lines and power lines as they freeze.

We continue to move up, and finally discover the culprit.

Jack Frost makes his way atop a cathedral spire and takes in

the view; the full moon bathes the city in moonlight.

Jack chuckles as he calls the wind. The trees begin to sway

and leaves fly into the air. Jack grabs hold of the spire,

smiling as the wind blows past.

Jack lets go and the wind carries him into the air and

through the clouds. Night turns to day as Jack flies from

one horizon to the other.

EXT. BURGESS - DAY

Jack falls through the clouds, smiling, toward the town of

Burgess.

Jack continues on down and zooms through the streets.

Pedestrians clench their jackets and reach for their hats as

gusts of wind, snow, and streaks of frost are left in Jack's

wake.

EXT. FROZEN POND

Jack flies in, and with the wind behind him skates across an

all too familiar pond. As the wind zips across the pond it

knocks a BOOK out of the hands of a little boy walking alone,

this is JAMIE.

Jamie goes to pick up the book and we get a glimpse of the

cover - "THEY'RE OUT THERE! - MYSTERIES, MYTHICAL CREATURES

AND THE UNEXPLAINED PHENOMENA." Jack flies into frame and

lands beside Jamie.

Suddenly twins CLAUDE and CALEB, come barreling past them,

rough-housing and laughing as they slam each other into

drifts (all the boys are 8).

Jack calls after the boys...

Caleb stuffs a handful of snow down his brother's Jacket

EXT. JAMIE'S BACKYARD - DAY

The kids arrive at the fence of Jamie's house. Jamie opens

up a secret plank, and heads into his yard. Claude and Caleb

are still messing with each other. Meanwhile, Jack walks

unseen along the top of the fence.

Jamie arrives at his front gate, sled in hand while SOPHIE

(Jamie's 2-year-old sister in fairy wings) sits down on their

Greyhound as it lies in the yard.

Jack hops off the fence and walks amongst the kids, peering

over their shoulders as they play in the yard.

Sophie begins to cry.

JAMIE'S MOM comes outside. Caleb, alongside his brother,

stands at the front gate and calls out to Jamie.

Jamie's mom plunks the hat on his head, tweaks his nose.

Jack jumps down from the fence as the boys head off.

Jack reaches down and grabs a hand full of snow from off the

ground. With his palm open, Jack uses his magic to form the

perfect snowball.

He then puckers his lips, and blows onto it with his icy

breath. The snowball turns a light shade of blue. There's

something going on here.

EXT. SNOWY HILL

WHOOSH! - the snowball goes flying through the air and -

BOOF! - the snowball hits Jamie smack in the back of the

head. Jamie looks up, peeved, and turns.

Then we watch as his face changes...a mischievous sparkle

comes into his eyes. A big smile. Make no mistake,

something magical has just happened.

Jack flies in and lands amongst the group of kids.

Jamie scans the horizon for the culprit. His eyes land on a

couple kids making snow barricades.

MONTY (oddball with big glasses) with his back turned

suddenly gets a snowball to the back of the head, knocking

him face first into the ground.

PIPPA (brainy, pigtails, pink hat) steps forward and - BOOF!

A magical snowball from Jack hits her, knocking her back.

Pippa's face changes - a mischievous sparkle.

Suddenly we see Caleb struck in the side of the head with one

of Jack's snowballs; Claude can't help but laugh.

And just like that we find ourselves in a take-no-prisoners

snowball fight, the kids pummeling each other mercilessly.

Jack supplies the kids with more snowballs. The kids are

loving this.

The mayhem continues as Jamie, using his sled as a shield, is

knocked backward into a snowman, crushing it underneath him.

A snowball flies overhead and hits CUPCAKE, a tough third

grader as wide as she is tall, in the back of the head.

Dread sets in amongst the other kids, Cupcake squints -

gunslinger eyes.

Jamie is flat on his back, terrified. He looks up to see

Cupcake standing over him. Then, BOOF! Jack hits Cupcake

with a magical snowball. The kids gasp in horror.

A moment, and then Cupcake starts laughing as Jack's magic

takes hold.

Cupcake chases the kids down the hill, holding the head of

her snowman in her hands. Jack, all the while, runs along

side taking pleasure in the excitement.

Jack jumps ahead, blasting a sheet of ice behind him. The

kids fall to the ground, except for Jamie, who lands on his

sled, and slides head first down the sheet of ice into town.

Jamie suddenly shoots out between the trees and careens past

a set of parked cars.

Jack's path of ice covers the street. As Jamie turns, his

speed only escalates, sending him directly into traffic.

Jamie barely misses a moving truck, spinning it out of

control, sending furniture out the back, and causing a four

car pile up.

Jamie looks back, then quickly ahead as terror comes into his

eyes. Jack can't help but smile.

Jamie rockets through a pedestrian intersection, narrowly

missing those in the crosswalk.

Jack flies over to the far side of the street, sending the

streak of ice and Jamie up onto the sidewalk.

Jamie flies off the sidewalk and back into the middle of the

street, almost knocking over a postman. As Jack flies by

Jamie's side he sees the look of excitement come into Jamie's

face. Jack smiles, knowing he's responsible.

Jack sees an oncoming snowplow and quickly jumps ahead,

carried by the wind, to divert the ice trail.

Jamie's sled suddenly turns, narrowly missing the oncoming

truck and barrels toward Jack's newly formed ice ramp...

Jamie closes his eyes as the ramp launches Jamie over the

street, high into the air, and toward the statue of Thaddeus

Burgess, colonial settler - 1680. Jamie's friends stand in

awe, mouths wide open, as he sails through the air.

Jamie opens his eyes and the look of fear suddenly turns to

joy. Jack looks on smiling.

Jamie lands safely in a large mound of snow. Jack jumps onto

the Statue of Thaddeus Burgess.

Jamie's friends all come running to Jamie's aide, scared.

But Jamie gets up.

A sofa from the moving van suddenly knocks Jamie down...

There's a moment of silence as the kids wait to see if Jamie

is okay. Then, Jamie rises up from behind the sofa grinning,

a new gap in his smile. He holds up a tooth.

As Jack looks down from the statue his frustration grows.

Storm clouds overhead rumble and darken. Flurries of snow

begin to intensify.

Jack jumps down from the statue, trying to engage the kids.

But it's too late, the kids take off. Jack blocks Jamie's

way as the boy comes running at him.

WHOOOSH! Jamie runs through Jack, as if he where a ghost.

Jack is left momentarily shaken, then...

They're gone. Jack is alone again. His temper subsides.

He whips up a little wind and disappears.

SEQ. 700 - NIGHT FALLS IN TOWN

INT. JAMIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jamie plays with a TOY ROBOT as DRAWINGS AND CHARTS of

mystery creatures hang on the wall behind him: UFO's, aliens,

Bigfoot, you name it. There's even a drawing of Jamie flying

in midair on his sled.

He mimes flying in the air with his robot, then CRASHING to

the bed as Sophie and their dog sit listening--

We reveal JAMIE'S MOM in the room. Sophie LAUGHS and tries

to stick a finger in the gap in his gums.

Jamie sets the TOY ROBOT on his nightstand, then grabs a

stuffed rabbit next to his pillow to reveal a CAMERA AND

FLASHLIGHT.

Jamie's Mom picks Sophie up off the bed and lifts her over

her shoulder. Their dog gets up and begins licking Jamie's

face.

...We see Jack Frost, outside, hanging upsidedown watching

them through the window. A pang. The glass frosts over.

EXT. ROOF OF JAMIE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Jack flips onto the roof, a little pensive. He makes his way

toward the roof's peak and looks up at the MOON, in full

view. It lights up the night sky.

A beat. The Moon shines silently down. Jack turns away in

frustration.

Jack leaps off the roof, onto a telephone pole, and begins

walking across some telephone wires. A stream of Dreamsand

suddenly zips by behind him, then another, which swoops

around in front of him. Jack turns and looks up, a smile now

on his lips.

The Dreamsand descends from the sky, and drifts into windows

around the town. Jack runs along the telephone wire until he

can reach out and intercept one of the passing streams. An

adjacent stream takes the shape of a dolphin which turns

toward Jack, before continuing on its way to a waiting child.

Then, we follow one of the streams into a window...

INT. CUPCAKE'S BEDROOM - BURGESS - CONTINUOUS

Dreamsand floats into a window, where CUPCAKE is in bed,

hugging a stuffed unicorn in her sleep. The Dreamsand swirls

over her head, and morphs into a little girl riding a

unicorn. The girl smiles at the lovely dream as it flies

around the room.

Then the room darkens as a wispy, shadowy figure with a

familiar laugh crawls out from under the bed, and rises up.

It's Pitch. He notices Cupcake's dream.

His face softens, seemingly moved...

Pitch reaches into Cupcake's dream, and touches a bony finger

to the unicorn. It turns ashen and black, and disintegrates.

Cupcake flinches in her sleep. Pitch snickers, delighted.

Pitch swirls the Dreamsand around and it all turns into black

corrupted Nightmare sand.

The black sand morphs into a horrific, shadowy bucking horse -

a NIGHTMARE.

Gleefully, he grabs the Nightmare's mane --

-- and sends it out the window, where it joins a posse of

other Nightmares coursing through the streets. They take off

and fly into the night sky.

EXT. BURGESS - NIGHT

Pitch steps out into the street from an adjacent alley,

avoiding the rays of moonlight. He looks up to the sky and

stares at the MOON.

EXT. BURGESS - NIGHT

Jack walks along a telephone wire as the Dreamsand disappears

from the sky. Suddenly a shadowy figure and an unfamiliar

noise zips by behind him.

In the background, residents get ready for the night.

Jack leaps over a house to an adjacent tree to investigate

and again, something zooms behind him. Jack jumps down from

the tree and onto a truck in a nearby alley.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Suddenly: WHOOSH! The SHADOW flashes by, knocking over a

trash can.

Jack jumps down from the truck and backs up out of the

alleyway into a clearing...

Jack turns around, ready to strike. He squints, as into the

light steps...

Jack is completely bewildered --

Bunny whips out his boomerang and casually looks at it as he

holds it in his hands.

Before Jack realizes what's happening a HUGE HAND reaches

into frame and lifts him off his feet.

Jack has been snatched up by two huge YETIS.

Jack is shoved head first into a sack. A yeti whips out a

snow globe, and smashes it on the ground.

A MAGIC PORTAL opens in front of them. The yetis make way

for Bunny to leap in, but he demurs --

He STAMPS HIS FOOT twice on the ground which SWIRLS OPEN -- a

RABBIT HOLE magically appears. Bunny leaps into it and

disappears along with the rabbit hole. In its place, from

out of the ground grows a small green plant.

The yetis throw Jack through the magic portal.

The yetis then charge in after and disappear into the portal.

SEQ. 900 - JACK MEETS GUARDIANS

INT. NORTH'S LIBRARY - DAY

The sack flies out of the portal and lands on the floor. In

the darkness, Jack hears --

Jack struggles out of the sack to see two elves staring at

him.

He then looks up to see North and Sandman looking down at

him. The Tooth Fairy is surrounded by a dozen hovering tiny

fairies who come and go as she blurts out orders.

North clears his throat. They all turn to a bewildered Jack.

As North holds out his arms to welcome Jack, a Dreamsand

snowflake appears above Sandy's head.

Two Yetis suddenly grab Jack by the shoulders and lift him up

onto his feet.

Bunny stands off to the side, grumbling with his arms

crossed. Jack suddenly notices the MINI TOOTH FAIRIES

hovering near him, staring and twittering.

Before Jack can answer, she's gliding toward him.

Several swooning Mini Teeth flutter around a confused Jack,

batting their lashes and screaming like crazed Beatles fans.

Tooth collects herself, and...

Sandy bolts up awake and steps up to Jack, smiling.

The WISP OF DREAMSAND above Sandy's head morphs into a

BARRAGE OF IMAGES.

Jack walks away from the group, frosting an elf with a tray

of cookies as it marches past, then turns around.

Off Jack's confusion, yetis light CEREMONIAL TORCHES with a

WHOOSH. Elves leap from columns, unfurling homemade,

celebratory BANNERS as they descend. Jack brushes off a few

baby teeth who try to present him with a necklace made of

paper snowflakes.

Jack's voice is drowned out by the sounds of horns and drums.

AN ELF MARCHING BAND strikes up, marching into the room. Two

yetis move Jack on to a designated spot on the floor.

Jack looks down to find an elf pointing at his bare feet.

The elf then directs his attention to two approaching elves,

carrying a pair of ceremonial boots. Jack's confusion

escalates.

A Yeti hands North an old large book. North blows off the

dust, opens it, and begins clearing his throat. Jack

clenches his jaw as he scans the room: The Mini Teeth

continue to fawn, Sandy's smiling, Bunny's apathetic, and

North looks on with pride.

Jack suddenly SLAMS his staff down, sending a blast of FROST

and WIND across the room. The torches go out and everything

stops.

North bursts out in laughter holding the book in his hands

then stops and looks to Jack, stone faced.

The elves blare the trumpets again. Celebration!

The music peters out again. An elf throws his trumpet to the

ground and storms off. North, displeased, glowers.

Tooth swoops in and turns Jack's attention to the massive

globe behind him.

Jack looks up at the Globe, taking in the enormity of this.

North suddenly moves to Jack's side.

We cut back to discover that Tooth is examining Jack's teeth.

Jack moves away from the Globe and back toward the center of

the room.

North points to the lights on the globe.

Jack turns and looks to the group.

Jack looks up to the skylight, taking in the awesome sight of

the moon as it shines down on Earth.

Jack is still confused by the news. What does it mean?

Jack turns to leave, the Guardians are stunned.

Except for Bunny, who is relieved by this turn and looks to

the others.

Jack turns back. A little pissed.

Silence. Jack tries not to look stung by this.

Sandy nudges North, who acknowledges the tension in the air.

SEQ. 1000 - NORTH'S WORKSHOP

INT. TOY FACTORY - NORTH POLE - DAY

Jack and North ride an elevator, bearing the resemblance of a

Christmas ornament, down to the factory floor.

North storms through factory floor, Jack trying to keep up.

An amazing place.

Jack looks over his shoulder; an angry yeti pounds his fist

into his palm.

North charges ahead.

North's factory is bustling with activity: Yeti's are

building toys, moving packages, while Elves are test piloting

the various flying toys.

As Jack walks behind North, surveying the factory, a duck toy

suddenly flies over Jack's head. Jack ducks just in time and

continues after North.

Jack looks over to see a group of elves eating Christmas

ornaments and another electrocuting himself with Christmas

lights. North smiles and calls to them.

North continues through the factory floor. He passes a yeti

putting the finishing touches on a blue toy robot.

The yeti reacts in dismay as we reveal hundreds of finished

blue robots.

As North and Jack move to the opposite end of the chamber, we

finally glimpse the orchestrated chaos of the entire

workshop, in all it's magic and splendor.

INT. NORTH'S OFFICE - A MOMENT LATER

Jack follows North into his office. There are shelves filled

with toys. Sketches and prototypes everywhere.

North dusts his hands and turns to Jack. His sleeves are

rolled. Jack notices that on one of North's forearms is

tattooed the word NAUGHTY, and on the other, NICE. North

grabs a plate from a nearby elf.

North hurls it - crash! A pause as North looks at Jack.

As North cracks his knuckles, Jack stands silent. The wind

suddenly slams North's office door behind them. Jack looks

to the door, it locks itself, and he turns back. North moves

in close to Jack, backing him up against the door.

North pokes Jack in the chest.

North stands up straight and begins to stroke his beard as he

gives Jack a curious look.

North is standing in front of a shelf of Russian nesting

dolls. One is carved to look like North himself.

Jack gives North a curious look, then sets down his staff.

He twists the doll in half, and inside is another carved

North doll, this one is a more typical Santa Claus - red

cheeked and cheery.

The dolls get progressively smaller as he twists them open,

all versions of North, but all slightly different.

Twist. As North approaches, Jack looks down and drops the

final Russian doll into the palm of North's hand. It's the

size of a jelly bean.

Jack holds it up to examine it.

North raises his hands, and the toys on the shelves suddenly

spring to life. Jack-in-the-boxes pop, toy trains speed

around the room, soldiers march about, toy planes fly

overhead. An elf gets carried aloft by a balloon.

A flying toy plane glides by and we follow it as it makes its

way around the room. A Christmas tree is ablaze with bright

lights. Two double doors suddenly open as the flying car

enters the factory floor.

As it crosses the frame, dozens of other toys are now flying

around the massive chamber. It's a truly magical moment.

North now stands outside his office, with Jack at his side.

Jack looks down into his open palm, the wooden baby stares

back at him. North closes Jack's hand. They exchange a look.

Then, something suddenly jets past a window outside. Almost

simultaneously, Bunny and Sandman come running down the

hallway toward North and Jack.

SEQ. 1204 - SLEIGH LAUNCH

INT. LAUNCHING SHED - A MOMENT LATER

North shoves open a set of double doors, followed closely by

Bunny, Sandy, and Jack. Several Yeti's rush by as they

prepare the hangar for launch.

Suddenly: the SOUND of POUNDING HOOVES. BEASTLY SNORTING.

SANTA'S INCREDIBLE SLEIGH comes into view. It's a huge,

shiny, tricked out, jaw-dropping hot-rod of a sled.

Jack is understandably gob-smacked, so much so that he almost

gets knocked over by one of the reindeer.

The sleigh comes to a standstill as the Guardians prepare to

climb inside. Several Yetis are still running around making

last minute preparations.

Jack jumps aboard. North smiles knowingly, and climbs

inside. Sandy hops up into the back seat.

North grabs the reigns, wrapping them around his arms. He

turns to see Bunnymund standing there, frozen and unnerved.

Bunny desperately looks around his seat.

North turns to one of the Yetis .

The Yeti throws his hands up in a fit shaking his head no.

The sleigh is off. Elves and yetis scatter out of its path.

Sandy, Bunny, and Jack fly back into their seats. Bunny

clutches the edge of his, terrified. Jack can't help but

laugh.

The sleigh heads down a luge-like track. North and Jack are

enjoying the ride.

North cracks the reigns, the sleigh plummets, an almost

vertical drop. Sandy grins calmly. Jack loves this.

Bunnymund - not so much.

North pulls a lever, kicking the sleigh into overdrive. He

looks back as the sleigh enters a corkscrew.

WIDE SHOT as the sleigh reaches the bottom of the ramp, and

shoots upwards, launching them into bright blue sky.

EXT. SLEIGH - FLYING THROUGH THE SKY - CONTINUOUS

North, reins in hand, leans into the wind as the reindeer

climb higher.

Jack, in his element, leaps up onto the rear of the sleigh to

watch the North Pole fade into the distance.

Bunnymund peaks off the side of the sleigh, then leans back,

and holds on for dear life.

Bunny turns to see Jack standing on the back edge of the

sleigh.

Jack is SWEPT OFF the sleigh and disappears! Bunny gasps in

horror and looks over the side...only to see Jack lounging on

the sleigh's skid.

Bunny glowers as Jack makes his way back into the sleigh.

North holds a snow globe up to his face.

An image of the Tooth Palace appears inside the snowglobe.

North throws the globe into the air and a giant vortex opens.

EXT. SKY - SLEIGH JETTING THROUGH THE SKY

A surreal light surrounds the sleigh as it hits HYPERDRIVE

and gets sucked through the snow-globe portal with a WHOOSH.

SEQ. 1300 - TOOTH PALACE DESTROYED

EXT. SKY - NEAR TOOTH'S PALACE

The sleigh suddenly comes out of HYPERDRIVE at the outskirts

of the Tooth Palace. Streaks of black rapidly approaching.

Suddenly our heroes find themselves in the midst of mayhem,

as hundreds of Nightmares and terrified Tooth Fairies jet

past. It's like a meteor storm. North yanks the reins, and

the sleigh veers sharply, dodging the oncoming Nightmares.

Sandy and Bunny duck the onslaught.

Jack now sees that the Nightmares are actually GULPING DOWN

the fleeing fairies and flying off with them. It's chaos.

Jack looks up to see a lone fairy with a Nightmare snapping

at its heels. Jack leaps into the air and rescues it before

the Nightmare can snatch it away.

Jack lands back in the sleigh. He opens his hand to reveal

Baby Tooth, who's shaking with fear.

As Baby Tooth nods, North steers the sleigh forward through

the storm toward the entrance of Tooth's Palace.

INT. TOOTH PALACE - A MOMENT LATER

A vast chamber supported by pillars containing millions of

tiny wooden deposit boxes from floor to ceiling. North spots

a Nightmare up ahead and hands Jack the reigns.

Jack, though surprised, quickly grabs the reigns and smiles

as he snaps them.

North readies his sword and SLICES the Nightmare in half --

SEVERAL TOOTH BOXES spill out of the split Nightmare and rain

down into the sleigh at the Guardians' feet. The Nightmare

disintegrates into black sand.

Sandy looks at his hands and sees the Nightmare sand take

shape and drift away. He and Bunny exchange a look.

The Guardians turn -- they're headed straight for a pillar.

Jack pulls the reins --

-- the sleigh nearly misses the pillar and skids to a rough

stop on a platform. They see Tooth up above.

Tooth is flying around, visibly frustrated. This is bad.

Only then does it hit her. Tooth's wings drop in defeat.

She's completely lost amidst the devastation. The Guardians

rush to comfort her. Jack stays behind as Baby Tooth pops

out from the hood of his tunic and flies over toward Tooth.

Pitch's voice echoes across the open chamber. They look up to

see Pitch, standing high above them with a satisfied smile.

Tooth darts after Pitch, but he escapes into the shadows.

Tooth follows the sound of Pitch's voice and finds him near

one of her tooth box columns.

Jack takes this in. Pitch moves along the walls and shadows

of the chamber and emerges from behind a column.

Bunny looks down past the edge of the platform to find Pitch

upside down, staring him in the face. Pitch disappears again.

Jack turns and sees Pitch standing in the middle of a column.

Bunny goes after Pitch, but he disappears and reemerges on an

opposite column. Tooth spots him, grabs one of Bunny's

boomerangs and flies at Pitch in a rage...

Pitch looks at Tooth with a smile and before she can reach

him, a huge Nightmare darts out of hiding and rears up at

her. Tooth falls back. Baby Tooth hides in Jack's tunic.

Pitch draws a wisp of black sand from Onyx's mane, twirls it

in his palm, and turns toward Sandy.

Pitch notices the shocked Guardians.

Pitch's eyes flash with anger. But then he smiles.

EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

A parent and her two children, huddled around a campfire,

scream as a shadow, resembling Pitch, washes over them. It

makes its way up the side of a mountain to reveal Pitch,

smiling as he stares up at the moon.

EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK - CONTINUOUS

North's sleigh flies in front of the moon. Tooth and her

fairies flit by while SANDY's Dreamsand dances across the sky

and Bunny leaps across rooftops.

Pitch, thinner and weaker than he is now, slips back into the

shadows after children run through him while playing in the

streets, laughing as they go.

BACK TO THE TOOTH PALACE

Pitch leans toward the Guardians, showing nothing but

contempt.

A SOUND behind Pitch: one of the COLUMNS of the Palace begins

to crack and crumble, as if decaying. Tooth is stunned...

Tooth's eyes widen in shock.

VIGNETTES OF CHILDREN AROUND THE WORLD

Lifting pillows and finding their BABY TEETH still there.

PULL OUT from the last VIGNETTE, all the way out of TOOTH'S

WIDE-OPEN EYE, and BACK TO SCENE. Jack, mystified, moves

closer to Tooth as the palace continues to crumble.

Jack's realizes now the magnitude of Pitch's plan.

Bunny throws his boomerangs at Pitch, who quickly ducks out

of the way as they fly around the chamber columns. Pitch

then jumps onto the back of Onyx down into the depths of the

Palace. The Guardians dive after him, followed by Jack.

Bunny grabs a set of egg bombs and launches them at Pitch,

exploding seconds before Pitch hits the ground.

SEQ. 1325 - JACK'S DECISION

INT. TOOTH PALACE - LAGOON - MOMENTS LATER

The Guardians land --

Tooth, deflated, sits on the ground with an empty tooth box

in her hands. Baby Tooth, resting on a nearby broken tooth

box, looks to Tooth with concern. Jack walks up and crouches

down alongside Tooth.

Tooth leads Jack across the pond, the water freezing under

his feet as he walks.

Tooth directs him to a MURAL, which illustrates this.

Jack takes a second to admire the immense beauty of the mural

before him.

Jack, confused, is trying to process all this.

Jack's expression says it all. Finally the key to all his

questions.

Jack, using his control of the wind, lifts up off the ground

and flies across the pond.

Jack floats down onto a rock, overlooking the Guardians.

Suddenly, a patch of Tooth's feathers fall out, and

disappears. The Guardians eyes fill with worry.

Jack is stricken. He looks back -- the ancient MURAL begins

He's gleeful. The others look at each other as if he's nuts.

North turns to Jack.

Jack looks to Tooth, who gives him a reassuring smile. Sandy

gives to enthusiastic thumbs up while Bunny groans. Jack

looks back to North with a smile.

SEQ. 1350 - TOOTH COLLECTION

EXT. SHANGHAI ROOFTOPS - NIGHT

We transition to the SHANGHAI SKYLINE as North BOOMS up out

of a chimney, dashing along the rooftops.

North BOOMS down another chimney as Bunnymund races into view

a rooftop away.

Jack zips into view, calling out to Bunny.

As we pan across the rooftops, BOOM! North bursts up out of

a nearby chimney.

North jumps into one chimney, then shoots out of another

across the way.

North disappears down yet another chimney only to emerge with

a bang out the top of another.

As North leaps out of frame, Tooth darts into view, in

hummingbird overdrive, dazzled by the lights and traffic.

Baby Tooth struggles to keep up.

Tooth, overwhelmed, jets off without paying attention and

THOOMP -- she smacks into a TOOTHPASTE BILLBOARD.

Jack jumps up to the billboard to check on her.

Tooth jerks to attention: suddenly her VIEW ZOOMS IN thru a

LITTLE GIRL'S BEDROOM WINDOW: a tiny GLOW under her pillow

marks a freshly planted TOOTH.

Tooth gasps and her eyes go wide -- she FLIES to the window,

excited. Jack reacts, looks to Baby Tooth: it's gonna be a

long night.

INT. BOY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jack, cocksure, arrives outside an open window. His smile

suddenly disappears when he sees a RABBIT HOLE open up in the

bedroom floor and Bunny hops out.

EXT. BOY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Bunny, now holding the tooth in his paw, turns to Jack and

laughs. Jack, not amused, zaps Bunny with burst of frost

from his staff.

EXT. MIDDLE EAST - NIGHT

The Guardians fly over a Middle Eastern city in North's

sleigh as the full moon lights up the night sky.

INT. KID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

North pulls TWO teeth, one with each hand: TWINS.

INT. BOY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Bunny pulls out his hand from under a pillow revealing

SEVERAL TEETH.

Pull out wider to reveal HOCKEY TROPHIES, POSTERS and

PARAPHERNALIA EVERYWHERE. Bunny grins.

INT. BOY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

North stands at the side of a boy's bed.

He falls into a rabbit hole, finding himself face to face

with Bunny. He growls. SANDMAN enters and takes the boy's

tooth for himself.

EXT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jack parkours between two buildings and into a window.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Jack flies in through the window when suddenly, a rabbit hole

appears. As Jack disappears through the rabbit hole, Bunny

appears through an adjacent hole laughing to himself.

INT. BEDROOM NIGHT

Tooth reaches under a pillow and pulls out a Tooth with a

mouse attached to the other end. Baby Tooth tackles the

mouse.

The mouse gestures back angrily.

EXT. SKYLINE - NIGHT

North and the Guardians, riding North's sleigh, exit a

wormhole. North laughs as they fly over the city.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Bunny pulls a note from under a pillow instead of a tooth.

The note shows an arrow, pointing toward the window. He

looks up to the window: North holds up a tooth as he grins,

then leaps off the ledge laughing.

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Bunny lands on a rooftop, holding a tooth in his paw, and

proud of himself. Then, Bunny hears the sound of ice and

--and disappears from view. Bunny is now sliding down the

side of a roof on a sheet of ice. Jack grabs the tooth from

Bunny's paw as he slides past and holds it high in the air.

Jack holds up the tooth, but within moments a hand snatches

it. Jack looks to see Sandy waving `bye-bye' as he flies off

on his Dreamsand cloud.

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

North dances across a rooftop and quickly drops into a

chimney to enter a house -- we DROP FAST THROUGH THE ROOF AND

CEILING...

INT. HOUSE UNDER ROOFTOP - CONTINUOUS

...to see BUNNY'S PAW as it LIGHTS THE FIREPLACE. Bunny

grins demonically in the firelight.

EXT. PARIS - SKLYLINE - NIGHT

A large burst of fire shoots out the top of a distant

chimney.

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Jack, North, Sandy, and Bunny stand proudly. Each one of

them revealing their own bag filled with teeth to Tooth.

Tooth is overwhelmed by their collective effort.

Their eyes widen and Tooth is suddenly panic stricken.

The rest of the group turns to each other, sinking their

heads and biting their lips in embarrassment.

EXT. LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The Guardians stand in line, waiting their turn to put dollar

bills into a coin dispenser.

A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS, VERY FAST

- Baby Tooth puts a COIN under a pillow.

- Now Jack puts a coin under a pillow.

- North's hand pulls a Tooth from under a pillow. He

replaces it pair of CANDY CANES and a few COINS.

- Bunny stomps his feet and falls through a rabbit hole to

reveal a pair of Easter Eggs atop a child's bed.

- Sandy walks through a doggy door with a coin in his hand.

In shock, he sees North laughing while arranging Christmas

decorations in the child's bedroom.

INT. BOY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A young boy, holding a stuffed animal and a sippy cup to his

mouth, looks out his bedroom window. The Guardians, cast in

moonlight, bound across the adjacent rooftops. The young

boy, dumbfounded, drops his juice.

EXT. SKYLINE - NIGHT

The Guardians fly across the night sky only to disappear

through a snowglobe portal. Nearby, a Nightmare observes as

the sleigh vanishes. It leaps off the roof, through a drain,

and down into the sewers.

SEQ. 1650 - PITCH'S LAIR

INT. PITCH'S LAIR - NIGHT

The SPY NIGHTMARE flies down into a dark cavernous space.

Large STEEL CAGES hang all around and trapped inside are the

MINI TEETH.

The Nightmare heads toward Pitch, standing at his own GLOBE,

which is conspicuously covered in lights.

The Nightmare approaches from behind and lets out a soft

whiney; Pitch stiffens at the news.

The MINI TEETH perk up at this, and start twittering

excitedly, which echoes throughout the lair.

The Mini Teeth begin to settle down. PITCH looks at the

Nightmare, frustrated, and scowls. The Nightmare winces and

disperses into tiny particles.

A strand of NIGHTMARE SAND from the Nightmare twirls in the

air, and Pitch twists it with his fingers, turning it into a

crude image of the SANDMAN.

And he crushes the image in his fist.

SEQ. 1575 - IN JAMIE'S BEDROOM

INT. JAMIE'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

A cool looking ROBOT TOY rests on Jamie's bedside table.

Jamie is sound asleep in bed. A smile across his face

reveals the recently formed gap between his teeth.

Jack laughs as he looks at JAMIE'S DRAWING of himself during

the SNOWBALL FIGHT on the wall. He's midair, blasting his

friends with snowballs. He smiles and then turns to Tooth.

He watches as Tooth reaches under the pillow. She hovers

over Jamie as he stirs in his sleep. A dreamy smile comes

over her as she gazes down at the sleeping boy.

A beat; Jack sees how much it means to her.

Tooth gives him a look: he's right.

A sudden COMMOTION. They both turn to the window.

North, carrying a large sack over his shoulder, struggles to

climb in through the small window. Sandman and Baby Tooth

climb in after. Everybody whispers.

Jamie is still sound asleep.

Bunny comes in through a rabbit hole in the floorboards.

North now holds his index fingers up to his lips.

Jack lifts up his sack of teeth.

And he strikes a Russian dancing pose as...

Suddenly a bright circle of light is cast on the Guardians.

They all turn slowly to see Jamie sitting up in bed, holding

a flashlight, wide awake and beaming in disbelief.

Jamie looks around, amazed, he sees everyone but Jack.

They all look to him, scandalized. Jamie looks concerned.

But then Jamie's GREYHOUND rises up into frame, fully awake,

its nostrils flaring at the scent he's picked up.

The dog is nose to nose with Bunnymund.

While Sandy forms a Dreamsand baseball, Jack rolls his eyes

and notices an alarm clock on the bedside table.

Jack can't resist: he reaches over stealthily and SETS OFF

THE ALARM CLOCK with his staff. RRRRRIIIIING!

Bunny is off like a shot, the greyhound right on his tail,

running laps in the small room, the dog barking like crazy.

Sandy, amused, makes a Dreamsand baseball to stop the dog,

but bobbles it as the dog brushes past.

The others stand out of the way as Bunny and the dog run up

the walls and over the bed.

As Tooth tries to silence the alarm clock, Jack can barely

contain his laughter. Sandy takes aim as Bunny and the dog

run circles around him--

The dog jumps past North, knocking him back.

As Sandy winds up, the dog suddenly SMACKS right into him.

The Dreamsand goes flying.

North ducks out of the way as the Dreamsand sails toward him.

The Dreamsand baseball smacks Tooth right in the face and

explodes into golden dust. Tooth and her fairy fall to the

ground as a golden tooth takes shape above their heads.

Streams of Dreamsand make their way around the room.

Bunny gets a whiff of the golden sand. The image of a carrot

quickly takes shape in front of his face.

THUD! Bunny falls over asleep. THUD! So does the dog.

North tries to scramble out of the way, but there's no escape

in this tiny room.

He teeters for a moment as Dreamsand candy canes appear

before him, then falls like a giant Sequoia, landing - THUD! -

on the end of Jamie's bed, which sends Jamie catapulting

through the air.

Luckily he lands -- OOF! -- in Sandy's arms. He starts to

wake up AGAIN, but Sandy is there with a fistful of sand --

BOOF! -- and Jamie too is out cold.

Jack and Sandy look down at the sleeping boy, relieved. Then

they look around -- a heap of sleeping, snoring bodies.

Bunny is snuggled up next to North. A carrot and candy

canes, made of Dreamsand, hold hands as they dance above

Bunny and North's head.

Jack comes down off the dresser and turns to Sandy, who has

put Jamie back in bed. Sandy lifts North's arm and lets go,

it's completely limp and falls flat. Sandy smiles at Jack,

who chuckles.

Sandy eyes suddenly widen. There's a Nightmare behind Jack.

Jack turns to see A NIGHTMARE staring through the window.

Without hesitation, Jack jumps out the window after it.

Sandy pauses for a moment, then follows Jack's lead.

BACK IN JAMIE'S ROOM - INTERCUT

The sleeping Guardians are where we left them. Jamie's

bedroom door opens, and Sophie toddles in. She takes in the

scene, amused. She toddles over to North, giggling.

She pokes at his rotund belly. Then she notices something.

She reaches into his pocket and pulls out a snow globe.

She looks over to see the Easter Bunny, sound asleep on the

floor.

Suddenly the snow globe lights up. Sophie's eyes widen as

she looks at the beautiful vista inside the globe. It's

Bunny's warren.

She takes the globe and toddles off for the door, when she

trips - again - and the snow globe smashes on the floor.

BOOMF!! A flash of LIGHT. She looks up to see a magical

portal open in front of her. A GUST WIND comes blowing out

of the portal. Sophie giggles, and toddles through the

portal.

North's bleary EYES pop open mid-snore.

SEQ. 1600 - SANDMAN ATTACKED

EXT. BURGESS NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

TWO NIGHTMARES zigzag along the rooftops, searching for

victims. Jack, loving the chase, is in hot pursuit with

Sandy, who's riding along on a streak of Dreamsand--

One of the Nightmares splits off, angling for a BEDROOM

WINDOW. Sandy calmly follows--

The Nightmare flies right through the WINDOW and SANDY does

the same -- the OTHER ONE angles up over the house's ROOF to

evade Jack, who PARKOURS over the roof after it--

Through the WINDOWS BELOW, FLASHES OF GOLDEN and SICKLY GREEN

LIGHT race through the house as Sandy battles the Nightmare--

The Nightmares and Jack ZOOM away from the house just as

Sandy and the FIRST NIGHTMARE blast out of the window, Sandy

wrestling it until -- POOF! It explodes into golden

DREAMSAND which he quickly transforms into a Sting Ray for

him to ride--

EXT. DOWNTOWN BURGESS - CONTINUOUS

Jack flies through town on the heels of the Nightmare. It

makes a sharp turn down an alleyway and Jack is quick to

follow.

The Nightmare then veers up the wall of the alley and onto a

ROOFTOP. Jack whips a blast from his staff and HITS the

Nightmare before it disappears from view.

Jack jumps up onto the roof and prods the frozen Nightmare

with his staff.

Jack can barely contain his excitement as he calls out to

Sandy -- but suddenly Pitch lurches out from behind an air

conditioning unit on the rooftop.

Jack blasts a WAVE OF FROST across the rooftop, but Pitch

easily dodges it, reappearing behind Jack on the adjoining

rooftop.

Jack's eyes narrow. He holds out his staff, ready to strike.

Pitch regards him curiously.

When he notices something and turns to find Sandy calmly

standing on the rooftop next to him. Pitch quickly

sidesteps, moving away from Sandy.

Before Pitch can finish a DREAMSAND STREAM whips around him,

forcing him to duck and dodge Sandy's sudden attack.

Pitch DISPERSES a stream of NIGHTMARE SAND, turning it into a

gigantic sickle and swings it back at Sandy. Jack ducks,

avoiding injury as Sandy's pushed back against a ledge.

Sandy quickly grabs Pitch with another DREAMSAND STREAM and

yanks him off his feet, slamming him repeatedly against the

tops of the buildings until finally throwing him off the

rooftop.

Pitch bounces off the ground as he crashes into an EMPTY

STREET. As Sandy dusts his hands and calmly steps off the

rooftop to follow, Jack looks on, astonished.

EXT. EMPTY STREET - CONTINUOUS

Pitch shakes off the crash, trying to back up as Sandy

touches down and moves toward him, Jack following. Pitch

cowers on the ground in fear as they approach.

Sandy continues forward, grim faced...but suddenly Pitch

stops cowering and stands up. His tone changes.

Before Jack and Sandy can react, a Nightmare shoots up

through a storm drain as several other Nightmares gather in

the alley behind him.

Jack and Sandy look around as hundreds of Nightmares descend

from the surrounding rooftops to encircle them. This doesn't

look good. Jack, worried, looks to Sandy and mutters...

Meanwhile, Pitch rises up from off the ground as Onyx takes

shape underneath him.

Pitch grabs onto Onyx's mane as it snorts and snarls. He

then leans forward.

Pitch's army of Nightmares begin to charge. Then suddenly,

the sound of BELLS and REINDEER echo in the distance--

NORTH'S SLEIGH bursts through the clouds. Jack and Pitch

look up into the sky as it circles overhead. The sleigh

turns toward Pitch, only to fly a few feet over his head.

Pitch turns as it passes over him, slightly confused.

North's asleep at the wheel, along with Bunny and Tooth.

Suddenly, the sleigh clips one of its skis as it flies over

City Hall, jolting North to attention.

Bunny awakes with a fright from a bad a dream.

EXT. EMPTY STREET - CONTINUOUS

Still battling Nightmares, Sandy propels himself and Jack

into the air with a stream of Dreamsand and launches Jack

away from the Nightmares. Jack quickly orients himself and

knocks an oncoming Nightmare with his staff.

Tooth quickly jumps off the side of the sleigh toward Jack

and Sandy.

Jack, knocks away a few more Nightmares with his staff, and

looks up. Tooth suddenly flies into view through the swarm

of Nightmares, slicing them apart with her wings, causing

them to EXPLODE into BLACK SAND.

Pitch gives a signal and leaps into the air, leading another

wave of Nightmares after the Guardians.

Back in the sleigh, Bunny jumps out and lands on a nearby

roof.

Bunny quickly tosses his boomerang which disintegrates every

Nightmare in its path. Bunny catches the returning

boomerang, leaps off the roof, and grabs the skids of the

sleigh as it passes by.

North stands, drawing both his scimitars, and dices the

oncoming Nightmares to bits as they attack.

Jack heads back to the sleigh by dodging two Nightmares as

they attack. As he continues his descent, Jack is suddenly

blind sided by another Nightmare, which knocks the staff from

his hands.

For a moment, Jack is in a state of panic as he finds himself

in free fall.

He finally manages to hook onto the staff, control his

descent, and land on the sleigh as it flies past.

Jack DUCKS as a Nightmare rears up behind him, but one of

Bunny's BOOMERANGS blasts through it and zips back to Bunny's

waiting paw.

Sandy high up in he clouds, does his best to contain the MASS

OF NIGHTMARES that are swirling around him.

Pitch rises from behind a group of Nightmares. He stretches

his arms as an ARROW of NIGHTMARE SAND forms behind him.

Jack and the Guardians watch as more Nightmares speed away to

join their herd. Sandy looks overwhelmed by the onslaught.

North cracks the reigns, turns the sleigh, and heads toward

the swirling cloud of yellow and black sand.

Pitch takes aim and releases the arrow. It flies through the

air and into SANDY'S back, exploding on impact.

The Guardians look on, horrified.

Jack leaps ahead of the sleigh and flies toward Sandy.

Sandy feels the shock and turns around. A patch of blackness

starts slowly spreading across his body. Pitch laughs as he

and Sandy lock eyes.

The Guardians continue to speed toward Sandy, but Nightmares

begin colliding with the sleigh, slowing their progress.

Pitch relishes this moment of triumph.

Sandy, his eyes filled with terror, falls to his knees as the

patch of blackness continues to spread.

Jack presses on, trying to reach Sandy as fast as he can.

Sandy stands up, accepting his fate, and closes his eyes as

he and his Dreamsand cloud are consumed by the writhing

blackness of the Nightmare sand.

Horrified, clenches his staff as he flies toward Pitch.

Sandy's gone. His beautiful Golden Dreamsand, now black,

merges with the rest of Pitch's Nightmare sand.

Is beyond delighted. His plan actually worked!

Pitch then notices Jack flying towards him, glowing energy

emanating from Jack's staff. Pitch raises his hands and

sends a massive wave of Nightmares toward Jack.

The Guardians are stunned.

Jack quickly realizes that's he's in over his head as the

attacking Nightmares begin to overtake him. He's engulfed by

Nightmares and there is nothing but silence.

Pitch looks on with a smile until a bolt of lightning

suddenly erupts from within the writhing black sand.

A gust of wind blows past Pitch, quickly followed by a

massive wave of ice and frost that rockets back up the stream

of Nightmare sand toward him, culminating in an explosion of

ice and snow.

EXT. BURGESS - NIGHT

Jack free falls back to Earth, unconscious.

Tooth quickly rescues him and sets him back down in the

sleigh.

EXT. BURGESS FOREST - NIGHT

Pitch pulls himself laboriously from the mud and weeds

amongst the trees where he's crash-landed, oddly, he seems

delighted.

He looks up to see a BRIGHT GLOW -- North's SNOWGLOBE PORTAL.

The sleigh zooms into it and it WINKS OUT.

Pitch shakes the FROST from his arms as scores of Nightmares

swarm behind Pitch, regrouping after the blast. Pitch, at

the center, seems as pleased as can be.

SEQ. 1700 - GUARDIANS REGROUP

INT. NORTH POLE - GLOBE ROOM - DAY

We're in the midst of a somber ceremony, marking the passing

of Sandy. Burning candles line the perimeter of Sandy's

stone emblem.

Tooth sets down a candle and stands shoulder to shoulder with

North and Bunny. The three hold hands in solace.

The ringing of somber bells can be heard echoing throughout

the chamber, as we reveal the elves and a yeti ringing the

elf bells as part of a ceremonial dirge.

INT. NORTH POLE - GLOBE ROOM - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Jack, facing a window, FROSTS OVER THE GLASS with his finger

to form a symbol of Sandy. North slowly walks up behind him.

Jack remains still, his eyes fixed on the image of Sandy.

Jack pulls back his hoodie and stands up.

Jack and North approach the globe which is losing lights at

an alarming rate.

Jack drifts up closer the globe. He looks at the lights

going out, then back to the Guardians. There's a nervous

tension in the room.

INT. NORTH POLE - FACTORY FLOOR - DAY

A massive wooden door swings open; North leads Jack and the

Guardians through the doorway, into an elevator, and through

his factory.

Bunny directs the groups attention to the ground. He taps

his foot and a rabbit hole opens up under their feet.

SEQ. 1775 - PREPARATION FOR EASTER

INT. BUNNYMUND'S TUNNELS - DAY

The Guardians plummet through Bunny's tunnels.

INT. BUNNYMUND'S WARREN

Jack, Bunny and Tooth arrive gracefully in the warren's

antechamber, while North and the yetis comes to a crashing

halt.

Bunny stands before them when suddenly, he shifts his

attention. He turns, his ears perk up and his nose sniffs

the air.

Something's amiss. A faint scream begins to echo from within

the depths of one of Bunny's egg tunnels. Tiny eggs come

scuttling out from the tunnel.

Bunny grabs his boomerang, North draws his sword, and Jack

readies his staff as the sounds of booming footsteps,

screams, and the rustling of foliage grows louder.

Bunny begins to charge toward the tunnel. At his side are

the Guardians, yetis, and sentinel eggs all bellowing their

loudest battle cries until...Sophie bursts out. All momentum

comes to a halt.

They immediately withdraw their weapons, mildly embarrassed.

Sophie giggles and immediately runs after one of the elves.

North looks down at his coat pocket - ooops.

Sophie giggles as she drags the elf by the bell atop its

uniform.

Sophie runs away screaming.

Meanwhile, Sophie is running around the warren, exploring and

playing. Sophie pokes her head into a small tunnel.

Jack walks toward her, forming a SNOWFLAKE, which floats over

toward Sophie. She tries to grab at it.

Sophie follows the snowflake as Jack leads it over to Bunny.

The snowflake lands on Bunny's nose and his concerns suddenly

seem to slip away. Jack's magic is taking affect.

INT. BUNNYMUND'S WARREN - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Close up on a flower, that opens to reveal an egg. The egg

stands up wobbly on its spindly little legs. We pull out to

reveal Sophie and Bunny's faces looking on, Sophie amazed,

Bunny proud.

We pull out further to reveal a massive stone spire, covered

in moss, as thousands of unpainted eggs stream down the side

of it toward a green meadow. North and Jack stand in the

midst of it all, slack-jawed, as the eggs rush towards them.

A GREEN MEADOW

Bunny hops into view, Sophie clinging to his back smiling,

leading a huge mass of eggs down a wide PATH. As he passes,

FLOWERS BLOOM on either side in his wake, BLASTING the

passing eggs with color as they go.

THE SORTING STONES

North looks out over the eggs as they get sorted.

Sophie, on her back, is carried by the eggs through the

sorting stones. She giggles as North waves at her while she

passes by.

Baby Tooth flies across the screen, diverting our attention

to a multicolored stream off in the distance.

Baby Tooth joins an elf, who stands alongside an egg at the

edge of a cliff. The elf pushes the egg over the cliff, into

the stream, and celebrates with a victory dance.

The elf turns just in time to see a stampede of colored eggs

come barreling toward him. They knock him off the cliff as

he and the eggs spill into the multi-colored stream below.

A SPARKLING STREAM

Colored eggs wade through the water, emerging with SECONDARY

COLORS and intricate PATTERNS of all kinds.

An unlucky egg veers off and gets stuck in a WHIRLPOOL. We

see a hand fish it out to reveal North, who looks at the egg

curiously. It's now got a SPIRAL PATTERN on it and its

little LEGS kick madly.

Bunny's surrounded by butterflies and cute little eggs.

As a technicolored elf climbs out of the stream, North sets

the egg down and lets it rejoin the herd.

A GREEN MEADOW

As Sophie leads a parade of eggs, Bunny jumps to an adjacent

rock and sits up to address the eggs as they walk in stride.

Meanwhile, Jack rides atop a group of sentinel egg that are

marching in the back ground.

A GREEN MEADOW - CONTINUOUS

CLOSE ON: a line of eggs running down curled vines as yetis

sprinkle them with glitter. They continue on down various

vine corkscrew-like shoots, decorating the eggs with stripes.

A confused elf emerges from the vines, striped with paint and

walks off.

A GREEN MEADOW - CONTINUOUS

The striped elf walks past a Yeti, painting a mound of eggs

red. Bunny enters frame and hops across the screen.

The Yeti throws its arms up in defeat and tosses the eggs.

A GREEN MEADOW - MOMENTS LATER

A beautifully painted egg hides in the grass.

Sophie appears, spots the egg, and delicately lifts it out of

the grass. She holds it close to admire the intricate detail

of its shell. Sophie brings the egg to Bunny for him to

inspect.

Bunny takes Sophie by the hand and leads her through a stone

archway.

THE STREAMS OF COLORED EGGS

Bunny looks out proudly at the eggs gathered in front of the

TUNNELS in the distance.

Jack approaches from behind and makes his way alongside

Bunny, who holds Sophie in his arms. Its our first real

vista of the whole warren. It's a spectacular sight.

Sophie yawns and begins to fall asleep. Bunny turns to Jack

with a smile.

North comes up from behind with Tooth at his side. They turn

toward Bunny, marveling at the sight of Sophie, fast sleep.

It's touching. Bunny's face softens, as if remembering a

distant memory.

They look up from the sleeping toddler toward Jack. He's

taught them something today.

Bunny hands the sleeping Sophie over to Tooth.

The Guardians look at Jack with concern.

SEQ. 1804 - RETURNING SOPHIE

INT. SOPHIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jack tries to lay a sleeping Sophie down in her bed, but she

won't let go of his neck. Finally, she releases her grasp

only to roll over and fall out of bed. Baby Tooth gives Jack

a scornful look.

Jack and Baby Tooth's eyes widen. Sophie, asleep on the

floor, is quickly covered with a blanket and given a squeaky

stuffed animal.

EXT. SOPHIE'S BEDROOM WINDOW - CONTINUOUS

Jack closes the window and looks to Baby Tooth with a sign of

relief.

Baby Tooth nods, when...

Jack stops, confused. Where is that voice coming from? He

looks out across the town, toward the woods, and the sound of

the echoed voice.

Baby Tooth looks to him, worried.

With that, Jack leaps off the window ledge.

EXT. BURGESS - A MOMENT LATER

Jack, carried by the wind, flies across town toward the sound

of the eerie voice. Baby Tooth follows, trying to keep up.

Jack takes a moment to orient himself and lands, settling on

a rotating vent; as the momentum slowly spins him around, the

voice calls out to him again.

Jack turns, looks to the woods, and takes off.

EXT. WOODS - BURGESS - A MOMENT LATER

Jack and Baby Tooth land in the middle of a thickly wooded

area. It's spooky. Jack scans the forest when again he

hears...

Jack gives chase. He sprints through the thickets and enters

a clearing only to find the decrepit remains of a rotting

frame from a child's bed. Very creepy. What would that be

doing in the woods, and how long has it been here?

Baby Tooth desperately tries to get Jack's attention by

tugging at his tunic, and tweeting desperately.

Jack takes his staff, and breaks through the damaged frame,

revealing a hole leading deep underground.

What to do? Jack jumps down the hole, reluctantly followed

by Baby Tooth.

SEQ. 2100 - PITCH TRICKS JACK

INT. PITCH'S TUNNELS

Jack continues along a long dark tunnel with Baby Tooth close

behind. Eventually the labyrinth opens up to reveal a huge

underground cavern. Baby Tooth continues to tug at Jack's

tunic.

INT. PITCH'S INNER SANCTUM - CONTINUOUS

Jack can't believe his eyes. Dozens of huge bird cages

hanging from the ceiling, and in them are the mini tooth

fairies. They see Jack, and immediately perk up, tweeting

and flitting like crazy.

Jack jumps up onto one of the cages, then quickly leaps and

holds onto the side of another one.

Jack turns away from the fairies, distracted.

Jack looks down and sees the tooth drawers from Tooth's

Palace. Mounds of them heaped to the ceiling. And inside

the drawers are the missing baby teeth. He drops down to a

mound and begins rummaging through the drawers, looking at

the names on the boxes.

In an instant he forgets his duties, and the fairies, and the

Guardians and everything except those teeth, and the chance

to finally get his memory back.

The cavern suddenly goes darker than it already was. Jack

finally looks up, as a shadow of Pitch crawls up a nearby

column.

Jack swings around with his staff, shooting off a blast of

ice, but Pitch isn't there. Jack takes off, following the

sound of Pitch's cackle as it echoes throughout the chamber.

Jack rounds a corner as he sees Pitch's shadow glide across

the walls into a shadowed corridor.

Jack continues along a shadowed corridor.

Jack sees Pitch on a bridge across the cavern and heads after

him.

Jack steadily approaches, cautious and alert.

Pitch finally turns to face Jack.

Panic flashes in Jack's eyes. As he backs away, the chamber

fills with shadows, and Jack is spun around. He's

disoriented as he thuds into a wall, which flips to reveal

that it's actually the ground.

Pitch, unseen now, chuckles.

Jack's unsure of where he is. He looks back to see the

cavern entrance -- he's right back where he started.

Jack discovers that the entrance has been blocked with bricks

as Pitch's shadow encroaches on him.

Pitch is now directly in front of Jack, holding out a tooth

box.

Jack's eyes widen at the sight - the face of a young boy

etched into the box, and under it is the name "Jack Frost."

He holds them out to Jack. Jack stares, fighting the impulse

to grab them. He closes his eyes, struggling to make a

decision, but when he opens them again, Pitch has

disappeared.

Pitch's shadow moves across the pillars of the cavern.

Jack heads down a corridor, cast shadows from the Mini Tooth

cages everywhere.

Pitch's face moves in and out of the shadows over the

following.

Every time Jack turns, Pitch disappears. It's like Jack's

trapped in a fun house.

Multiple Pitch shadows have appeared on the wall around Jack.

They're closing in on him.

Jack's breath quickens. He's been pushed into a corner.

The shadows have overcome Jack.

Almost reluctantly, the shadows back away and Pitch appears

before Jack.

Jack aims his staff at Pitch.

Pitch tosses the box to Jack, who instinctively catches it.

Jack looks up. Terror comes into Jack's eyes, as he

realizes...

Pitch begins to back away, becoming one with the darkness,

laughing as he disappears. Jack charges towards him only to

be swallowed whole by one of Pitch's black holes.

SEQ. 2200 - GUARDIANS BREAK WITH JACK

INT. EGG TUNNEL - DAY

Jack flies out of Pitch's shadow, ready to strike. Suddenly,

Jack realizes he's forgotten something.

He turns to re-enter the hole in the wall only to find

himself face to face with one of Bunny's stone emblems.

Jack turns around. Suddenly, his eyes fill with dread as he

realizes where he is. Thousands of broken egg shells lay

strewn about, forming a path toward the light at the end of

the tunnel.

EXT. PARK - ENGLAND - DAY

Bunny peaks through the bushes to take in the scene - an

Easter Egg hunt.

Bunny checks the eggs in his basket, then looks back toward

the kids.

Bunny, egg basket in hand, approaches a group of kids who

seem to be wandering around searching halfheartedly,

disappointed and listless.

He holds out a broken Easter egg. The kids just stare.

The girl turns to leave.

It's only then that we realize he's too late. The spark of

childhood has already been extinguished in all of them.

The kids walk through Bunnymund as if he were a ghost. Bunny

is stunned by this, and finally realizes...

JACK's watching this all unfold and it's heartbreaking,

because he knows it's his fault. Tooth flies to Bunny's

side. Jack hears a rustle in the bushes behind him.

Jack sees North, with his scimitars drawn and having just

come from battle. He's exhausted, wild-eyed, distraught.

Tooth rejoins the group from off screen.

Jack looks down at the tooth box in his hand, then back to

Tooth.

North steps forward to confront Jack.

Jack turns to see Bunny, disheartened.

Bunny turns away and moves toward the park, looking at the

sign that reads, `Easter Egg Hunt.'

This is like a punch in Jack's gut. He looks back to Tooth

and North, both of whom look away, too hurt by Jack. He

looks at them with a pained expression. This is exactly what

Pitch said would happen.

Jack reaches into his pocket, pulls out the tiny Russian

nesting doll that North had given him, drops the doll to the

ground, and takes off.

As Jack leaves, carried off by the wind, we see the tiny

Russian nesting doll laying on the ground.

SEQ. 2600 - JAMIE STILL BELIEVES

EXT. JAMIE'S HOUSE - DUSK

Jamie, atop a ladder, strains for what looks like an Easter

egg, hiding in the rain gutter. The ladder totters and Jamie

loses his balance, beginning to fall.

Jamie grabs the gutter but it breaks loose, sending Jamie

crashing down into a mound of snow.

As Jamie gets up off the ground, he sees that the Easter egg

was in fact a dirty old tennis ball. Jamie stands up,

bewildered, and dusts himself off as his friends LAUGH. A

few have empty EASTER BASKETS.

They begin to turn away from him.

Pippa's the lone straggler. She looks tired, depressed, and

hands Jamie her basket as she leaves.

Pippa walks away, trailing the others. Jamie doesn't know

what to believe. He hangs his head and looks into the Easter

basket, it's empty.

INT. NORTH POLE - GLOBE ROOM - DAY

Yetis stare at the globe of belief, in shock as more and more

lights begin to fad away. We push in toward Antarctica as we-

SEQ. 2304 - JACK IN ANTARCTICA

EXT. ICEBERG - ANTARCTIC CIRCLE - DAY

Jack runs to the edge of a floating iceberg, ready to throw

his tooth box into the ocean. He resists, looking down at

the box as he clutches it in his hand. He's never been more

alone in his life.

Pitch is revealed, standing not far behind Jack.

Jack whips around and shoots a burst of frost at Pitch, but

it's quickly deflected by the Nightmare sand.

Jack continues to attack, lashing out with his staff. Pitch

blocks the attacks of ice and frost -- his control over the

Nightmare sand has gained considerable strength.

Pitch strikes back, putting Jack on the defense. Jack jumps

in the air. Their show of force escalates until they're

shrouded in a blanket of snow, ice, and wind. As the wind

and snow settle, Jack looks around stern and alert.

Jack turns around to find Pitch. There's a look of

compassion on Jack's face as he listens.

They lock eyes. A moment of true connection between them.

This isn't a trick Pitch is making a real offer here.

Pitch gestures to a fantastical ice and nightmare "sculpture"

that was created (off-screen) when Jack attacked him.

Jack looks at the fractured reflections of themselves cast in

the icy sculpture.

Jack turns to face Pitch.

Pitch, realizing how this looks, clarifies...

Jack stares at him, considering the offer. Then finally...

Jack turns and walks away.

Pitch looks confused and hurt. This is not the response he

was expecting. Then...his eyes flame with anger. He made

himself vulnerable, and Jack rejected him. No more

negotiating now.

Suddenly Jack hears a familiar twitter. Pitch reaches into

his coat to pull out...

Jack charges forward. There's terror in Baby Tooth's eyes.

She squeaks as Pitch clenches her tight with his fist.

Jack settles and the winds and snow subsides.

Baby Tooth struggles to get loose, but Pitch only tightens

his grip. She can hardly breathe. Jack has no choice.

Jack...hands over...the staff.

Pitch twirls the staff.

Baby Tooth squirms until she's finally able to peck Pitch in

the hand with her beak. Pitch shrieks and throws Baby Tooth

in the air and down into the mouth of a crevasse.

Jack, enraged, can't believe what he's seeing. Pitch lifts

the staff, and breaks it over his knee, cracking it in two.

Light EXPLODES from the staff and terror comes into Jack's

eyes, clutching his chest as if in pain.

Suddenly, Pitch sends a burst of Nightmare sand, blasting

Jack and slamming him into the iceberg wall behind him. As

the ice cracks, Jack comes loose and falls forward into the

chasm below.

Pitch looks down into the ice fissure chuckling. He throws

the broken shards of Jack's staff down into the crevasse and

casually walks away, disappearing on the horizon.

SEQ. 2308 - JACK'S MEMORY

EXT. ICE FISSURE - NIGHT

It's cold and dark down here, and Jack is more alone than

he's ever been. Battered from the fall, Jack slowly looks up

and notices Baby Tooth, lying lifelessly on the ground.

He pulls himself to her and cradles her in his hands.

Baby Tooth nods, but she's hurt, and cold. Jack does his

best to shield her from the cold.

Jack sits up and holds Baby Tooth in his hands.

Jack is devastated. Baby Tooth's never seen him like this;

it's heart breaking...then she gets a thought. Her

expression hardens with determination.

She wriggles deep into his pocket.

Jack leans back and begins to close his eyes when he hears

GOLDEN GLOW coming from his pocket.

Jack jumps, taken aback. He reaches in and pulls out the

TOOTH BOX -- it's pulsing with light.

Baby Tooth gives him a reassuring look.

Baby Tooth motions to the box, then looks back at Jack. Jack

reaches to touch the box, but as he does its top magically

UNFOLDS to reveal a handful of BABY TEETH - then the box and

everything else glows BRIGHT WITH INTENSE LIGHT -

The WALLS of the fissure seem to suddenly fall away. In

brief FLASHES we see: The COLONIAL SETTLEMENT Jack visited.

Children running playfully down a hill.

CHILDREN'S LAUGHING FACES as a familiar BOY hangs upside down

from a tree limb.

A HAPPY FAMILY at a roaring fire as the same boy jokes around

with antlers on his head.

Jack walks toward the woods with his sister. His mother,

face unseen, calls out to him.

Jack shakes his head like he's heard it a million times but

never pays it any mind.

START JACK'S MEMORY

We are on an eye, a familiar eye but this one is brown not

blue. PULL BACK to reveal young JACK, brown hair, brown

eyes. He is staring directly at the camera, a look of...what

is it? It's hard to read but it's VERY intense. We keep

pulling back to reveal him dressed as we first saw him in

16th century clothes. Behind him, dark winter trees and snow

come in to focus.

EXT. FROZEN POND - BURGESS - DAY

Jack reaches slowly down and removes the second of two

rudimentary ice-skates, leaving him BAREFOOT on the surface

of a familiar FROZEN pond. And now we see what he sees, a

girl of about FOUR (with an uncanny resemblance to Jamie's

sister Sophie) stands in her skates, rooted to the spot. A

spider's web of cracks emanates from where she stands.

CRACCKKK! The ice below her splinters more. She wobbles as

it starts to separate.

Jack fixes her gaze...holds it...there's nothing but the two

of them.

Jack's sister pauses a moment, then smiles through her fear.

And just like that, Jack's demeanor changes. A light is

switched on inside him and the last thing that could be

happening is what is actually happening.

Jack's sister looks more reassured.

And Jack shows his sister the first leap, but mugs for her,

almost losing his balance then catching himself. She laughs.

He turns toward her with his arms spread out.

He reaches down to pick up a familiar-looking stick lying on

the ice. He extends it towards her --

Jack's sister looks down. She is trying to gather her

courage. Jack, never breaking his gaze with her,

She hops, wobbling, but catching her balance.

She's almost there, Jack's staff just beyond her reach.

She grabs hold of Jack's staff and in one massive effort he

slings her with all his might to safety. But the movement

propels him into the cracked ice. He looks up to see his

sister safe - smiles - and then plunges into the dark cold

water.

Jack falls back into the icy water. SPLASH!

We're looking up at the hole in the ice, descending into the

dark icy depths...then THE FULL MOON appears from behind the

clouds as Jack's hands claw through the water towards it, but

it's helpless. The MOON glows bright...brighter...

Jack's BODY begins to glow, bathed in MOONLIGHT. PUSH IN on

his FACE, becoming brighter and brighter until his brown hair

turns white and JACK'S BRIGHT BLUE EYES flash open --

EXT. MOUNTAIN FISSURE - NIGHT

The icy walls rush back in as we pull out from Jack, reeling

from the memory. He sees Baby Tooth.

She shakes her head `no', tweets `of course not'!

His excitement suddenly turns to realization.

He looks up at the opening above. The MOON peeks out from

behind the clouds.

The Moon seems to shine a little BRIGHTER. Baby Tooth tries

to take flight but she sputters and lands back in the palm of

Jack's hand.

Jack looks down at the two halves of his staff, and picks

them up. He tries to fit them back together, but nothing

happens. He tries again, this time using every ounce of

strength left in him. Baby Tooth watches, her eyes widening

as, a SPARK of blue light shoots off the staff.

Jack continues to push, until a the icy blue light spreads

and melds the two ends of the staff back together. Jack

smiles.

EXT. ICEBERG - DAY

Suddenly Jack, with Baby Tooth tucked safely in his tunic,

SHOOTS UP out of the fissure, high into the sky and through

the clouds.

SEQ. 2500 - THE LAST LIGHT

INT. PITCH'S LAIR - NIGHT

A SERIES OF QUICK CUTS: The Mini Teeth TWITTER as Jack jumps

from CAGE to CAGE, opening them as he goes. Jack opens

another cage and notices the fairies standing still.

Jack looks around and notices that all of the Minis are still

in their cages.

The fairies are just standing around, listless.

Baby Tooth directs Jack's attention to the Globe at the base

of Pitch's lair.

INT. NORTH POLE - FACTORY FLOOR

A Yeti very carefully sets the last of a group of newly

painted red robot dolls on a shelf. He breathes a sigh of

relief.

Suddenly, the entire factory begins to shake, knocking the

robot doll to the ground. He dives after it, juggles it in

the air, and catches it just before it hits the ground.

Suddenly, streaks of BLACK SAND whoosh up into and around the

factory. The dark sand snakes its way up and around the

globe, causing the Yetis and Elves to scatter and knocking

TOYS to the floor.

The Yetis and Elves look up in horror as the black sand, now

covering the globe, gives rise to Pitch, who stands before

them cackling.

The yeti with the robot dolls sinks his head and sighs in

defeat.

INT. PITCH'S LAIR - NIGHT

Jack lands on the ground, now standing before PITCH'S GLOBE --

and it looks almost completely devoid of light.

INT. NORTH POLE - DAY

Pitch is practically dancing across North's globe, he's so

giddy, counting down as the last few lights go dark.

His eyes widen as he snaps his fingers with anticipation and

glee. All of his hard work and planning - finally paying

off!

Pitch stares down at the one last light, waiting for it to go

out. He snaps his fingers a few more times. Still nothing.

His smile fades. His face goes cold as he realizes...

INT. PITCH'S LAIR - NIGHT

Jack jumps up onto the globe to closely inspect the last

light. The light is brought into full view. Jack smiles.

We're tight on the globe, where the LAST LIGHT flickers. We

PUSH IN to the light and...

EXT. BURGESS - NIGHT

...down onto the streets of Burgess. We race over the town

until we land on Jamie's house, a single light shining from

his bedroom window.

SEQ. 2000 - JACK AND JAMIE

INT. JAMIE'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jamie is sitting up in bed, talking to an old stuffed rabbit,

and whispering.

Jack appears outside Jamie's window and moves closer to get a

better look.

Jamie waits. He looks around expectantly. Jack looks on

from outside the window, wondering if anything will happen.

Jamie picks up his stuffed rabbit and holds it close.

He waits. It's excruciating.

Jamie lets the stuffed animal fall to the floor. Jack comes

into the room and watches as the light slowly fades from

Jamie's eyes, disbelief setting in.

Jack doesn't know what to do. He takes a moment to

concentrate, then enters the room.

Then, Jamie notices the window as the panes of glass freeze

over. The image of an Easter egg suddenly appears...

Jamie looks down at the stuffed rabbit on the floor. He can

barely comprehend what he's seeing. Jamie looks back to the

window as more of the window panes frost over. Jamie's eyes

get huge with amazement.

Jack, excited, continues to exert himself trying to bring

life to his drawing. And when he does, the frost rabbit

comes leaping off of the window.

The rabbit hops around Jamie's room, bursting like a snowball

over Jamie's head, the snowflakes sprinkling down on him.

Jack is as amazed as Jamie. But Jamie's amazement turns to

confusion.

A snowflake lands on the tip of Jamie's nose. The snowflake

glows a magic blue. And in that moment a light comes into

Jamie's eyes - an idea starts to take hold.

Jamie stands up on his bed.

Jamie turns around and suddenly his eyes go wide...

Jamie's mouth drops open. Only then does Jack realize...

Jack leaps for joy, and the room suddenly explodes with snow.

Jamie can't believe it.

Jamie's mom calls from down the hall...

Suddenly, the sound of thunder and North's sleigh as Jack and

Jamie look to the open window.

SEQ. 2800 - JACK AND GUARDIANS REUNITE

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT

NORTH AND TOOTH arrive on the sleigh completely out of

control, and crash land outside Jamie's house.

The reindeer are separated from the sleigh and run into the

woods. A disheveled Tooth and North emerge from the

wreckage.

As North stands, his back suddenly gives out.

Jack comes flying toward them.

Tooth falters and falls to the ground.

They greet each other with a smile as North draws near.

Jack looks off to the side as Jamie appears from out of his

backyard.

Jack puts a protective hand on Jamie's shoulder. Jamie looks

up at him and smiles. Jack and North exchange a look.

Jack's face goes pale. North lowers his head in sadness.

Then a twitchy-nosed LITTLE BUNNY appears on the sleigh.

Jamie gently tickles Bunny under his chin. Bunny begins

involuntarily thumping his paw.

Bunny catches himself and pushes Jamie's hands away.

Bunny stops. Did he just hear that right?

A moment of reconciliation between them, broken by the sounds

of THUNDER. The Guardians look to the sky to see Pitch

enveloped by dark clouds as he stares down at them from atop

a writhing mass of Nightmare sand.

Jack leaps into the air, and goes flying directly at Pitch.

Meanwhile, the Guardians take Jamie to find shelter.

His eyes flash with anger at see Jack coming toward him.

Pitch sighs as he rolls his eyes and flies down to meet Jack

head on.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT

Jack sends a blast of ice and frost at Pitch as he barrels

toward him. Pitch easily absorbs the attack with his

Nightmare sand.

Jack's plan backfires as Pitch charges ahead and unleashes a

roaring fury of Nightmare sand that knocks Jack out of the

sky.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - MOMENTS LATER

Jamie and the Guardians do their best to avoid the patrolling

Nightmares. North struggles to keep up.

Bunny leads them down an alley, but it's no use.

Jack suddenly falls from the sky, lands on a dumpster, and

falls limp to the ground. THUD! The others turn their

attention and wince.

They rush to Jack and help him to his feet.

North and Tooth trade looks of concern. Then, a menacing

chuckle. The Guardians keep a watchful eye as Nightmare

shadow streaks across the alley.

A CRACK of Thunder reveals the shadow of an approaching

Nightmare as the sounds of hooves clacking against the ground

echoes from the opposite end of the alley.

Bulbs start bursting as the arm of a shadow moves across the

remaining lights in the alley. Terror in Jamie's eyes. What

does that mean?

With a finger raised, the shadow arm glides along the floor,

curling around the back of Bunny.

Bunny jumps back into North's arms.

Pitch comes into view, riding atop Onyx. A gleeful smile

strewn across his face.

They are weak and defenseless. But still the Guardians

gather around Jamie, to shield him from whatever may come.

There's a sudden moment of realization. Jack has heard these

words before.

EXT. FROZEN POND - FLASHBACK - DAY

We pan up from the ice to find his sister as he saw her in

his memory. She is smiling.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT

Jack, wide eyed.

Jamie gives Jack a questioning look. What does Jack have in

mind? Pitch gets closer.

BOOF! A snowball suddenly hits Pitch in the face. Two

Nightmares look at each, unsure how to react. Jamie can't

help but snicker and North lets out a chuckle.

Jack looks around the alley. He spots a wooden crate, a

trash can lid and a discarded wok amidst a pile of trash.

Pitch wipes the snow from his face and looks up to see a

track of ice leading out of the alleyway. Jack, Jamie and

the Guardians are gone.

EXT. THE STREETS AND ROOFTOPS OF BURGESS - NIGHT

An aerial view of Burgess. The streets are empty and the

city is quiet. Suddenly a streak of blue begins to

materialize, making its way through the tranquil suburb.

A man walks his dog across an empty street when suddenly a

cold wind blows behind him. Jack and Jamie come flying past,

leaving a trail of ice in their wake. And on that ice - the

Guardians careen along in make-shift sleds. They are scared

and thrilled, but they're having fun.

INT. CUPCAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

A terrified Cupcake lies in bed awake. The Guardians'

reflections streak across the window when suddenly, BOOF! A

snowball strikes the pane of glass.

Cupcake pulls the covers down to find that it's suddenly

SNOWING inside! As the snow circles around Cupcake's head,

she sits up and smiles.

EXT. PIPPA'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Pippa sits in bed amazed as it snows in her room. She hears

a KNOCK at her window and moves toward it to find Jamie

floating outside.

She throws open her window and looks down to the ground to

reveal that they are two stories up.

Jamie takes off flying down the street, and as a snowflake

lands on her nose she suddenly sees him.

Pippa looks up to see Monty across the street with his head

out the window and snow coming down in his room, a gaping

smile across his face.

EXT. CLAUDE AND CALEB'S HOUSE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Caleb and Claude sit up in bed in amazement, staring at the

snowflakes as they stream down from the ceiling.

THUD! The twins look down to find neatly wrapped gifts at

the feet of their beds as a jolly voice bellows in the

distance.

The twins open their window, amazed to see their heroes sled

past.

Caleb looks to his brother, dumbfounded. Suddenly Cupcake

skids past, laughing and screaming on her own sled.

And so it goes through the town.

SEQ. 2900 - SHOWDOWN

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - MOMENTS LATER

Jack, the Guardians, and the children all come to gliding

halt on their sleds. They look up to see Pitch standing atop

a building with a confident smile, while the clouds stir

behind him.

Monty, late to the party, comes running joyously past Jamie

and the Guardians who stand in silence as they stare up at

the sky.

The Nightmare sand storm descends from the sky. North draws

his sword, but the weight of the blade pulls him down. He

can barely stand. Jack moves to North's side as they look

back to Jamie, noticing the concern on his face.

Jamie takes a moment to reflect while his friends look up at

the sky in fear. Jack looks down, surprised, to see that

Jamie has taken a position in FRONT of him.

Suddenly, Jamie's friends move to join him.

The Guardians, amazed, watch as the kids squeeze past them.

Pitch's wave of Nightmare sand snakes its way through town

causing destruction wherever it goes and converges toward a

single point as it heads straight toward the kids.

Jamie thrusts out his hand toward the Nightmare wave. His

friends follow suite, just as the Nightmare sand smashes into

them. As it makes contact, the black sand...bursts into

streams of GOLDEN DREAMSAND.

Everyone is amazed, hardly believing their eyes. Streams of

Dreamsand swirl around the children. And then it's

pandemonium. The Nightmares buck and jump as the sand makes

its way past them.

He watches, aghast, as his precious Nightmares transform back

into golden Dreamsand and makes its way across town.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT

Tooth, amazed, watches as her wings suddenly flutter with a

resurgence of strength and energy. She takes off and flies

past the kids who cheer her on.

North's eyes widen. He straightens his back and unsheathes

his scimitars.

Pitch gives a signal and sends another wave of Nightmares

toward the Guardians.

The petite rabbit looks at himself, waiting to be

transformed.

When suddenly he's pursued by a snarling Nightmare.

Bunny takes off running.

North throws two snowglobes down to the ground, through which

an army of yetis and elves emerge.

Bunny tries to scurry under a parked car in order to evade

the attacking Nightmare, but he is snatched by his tail

before he can get away.

Suddenly, Bunny transforms back to his normal size and whips

out his boomerangs while being held upside down.

Bunny kicks the Nightmare, flips into the air, and throws his

boomerangs which slice through two more Nightmares, turning

them to dust.

Bunny drums his feet on the ground and an army of sentinel

eggs suddenly rise up out of the earth. Caleb finds himself

riding on top of one as they join the yetis and elves in

battle.

Elves riding toy ducks and planes come flying in overhead

like bombardiers, turning Nightmares into puffs of black sand

as they fly through them.

The kids look to see a Nightmare charging toward them, only

to stop in it's tracks once the kids turn to face it.

The kids, accompanied by two elves in a bike and side car,

charge an incoming Nightmare. The elf behind the wheel

lunges toward it, biting at its haunches.

The kids put their hands on the Nightmare, turning it to

Dreamsand.

EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Pitch looks down with a smile at the chaos in the streets

below. Suddenly, a THUD! Pitch turns toward the noise to

see Jack on the roof.

Jack quickly sends a streak of frost toward Pitch's

Nightmares, disabling a few of them.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The Guardians turn toward the explosions of ice and snow

taking place atop the surrounding buildings.

EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Pitch begins to charge and responds with an attack of his

own. Jack jumps to an adjacent roof and lets out another

blast of ice.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Bunny taps his foot on the ground and creates a rabbit hole

for North and himself to travel through.

EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Jack runs into Pitch as he rounds the corner of a chimney.

Pitch let's a Nightmare arrow fly, which is suddenly

deflected by Tooth as she flies through the area and takes

out a few Nightmares of her own.

Suddenly, Bunny comes flying out of a nearby chimney, drawing

his boomerang as he lands.

The Nightmares surrounding Pitch explode into dust as the

boomerang tears through them.

EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

North shoots out of a bunny hole, his scimitars at the ready,

only to have landed on a roof some distance from the

Guardians.

EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Pitch tries to escape the attacking Guardians and slips into

a nearby shadow, emerging through the side of the building.

North jumps off the roof to greet him mid-air with his

scmitars.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Pitch is knocked to the ground. As he gets to his feet he

forms a scythe with his Nightmare sand and begins crossing

swords with North.

In an instant Pitch finds himself surrounded by the

Guardians. Each of them take their turn to deal Pitch a few

humiliating blows.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Jamie looks over Caleb's shoulder as a wisp of Dreamsand

leaves his palms and rises into the air.

Jamie leads his friends as they follow the streams of

Dreamsand down the street toward the growing mass of golden

sand.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The Guardians advance toward Pitch.

Pitch give them a wry smile and quickly descends into the

shadows, casting multiple versions of himself along the alley

walls.

Suddenly, in their moment of distraction, Pitch rises up

behind Jack, his Nightmare sand AXE in hand.

The other Guardians look on in horror as--

A golden whip wraps itself round Pitch's hands. We follow

the whip to reveal Sandy, coalescing from the funnel cloud of

Dreamsand. He gives Pitch a look, wags his finger, and then

uppercuts him into the air.

Sandy looks off to the side to where Jamie and his friends

have gathered. He forms a Dreamsand hat and tips the cap to

Jamie. Jamie, gleeful, waves back to Sandy as his friends

stand behind him in awe.

Sandy then looks to his whip and tugs on it, slamming Pitch

into the ground and knocking him out. The Guardians cheer as

they welcome Sandy's return.

Sandy floats into the air, and shoots streams of Dreamsand in

every direction.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

A wisp of Dreamsand floats into a child's bedroom and touches

his forehead while he sleeps. Suddenly, a Dreamsand figure

forms above the child's head, it's the Tooth Fairy.

INT. PITCH'S LAIR - CONTINUOUS

Lights begin to appear on the globe. Baby Tooth notices

this, and perks up. Her wings start to flutter.

Other fairies begin to fly. They shoot down to the tooth

boxes and begin opening them. We see one of the faces on a

box, and transition to the actual child who she goes from sad

to happy as her fondest memories flood back. We zoom out of

her face to see thousands of fluttering fairies and...

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT

Sophie peers out of her bedroom window, watching as streams

of Dreamsand dance along the Burgess skyline.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT

More and more windows begin to shine bright with gold as

swirls of Dreamsand fill the night sky. We pull back to

reveal the globe in North's sleigh, now decorated with spots

of yellow light.

EXT. STREETS OF BURGESS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

A Nightmare comes barreling towards Cupcake. It screeches to

a halt, inches from the girl's face. She gently taps the

creature on the nose and turns into a Dreamsand Unicorn.

A gigantic Dreamsand dinosaur foot comes down revealing a

Dreamsand brontosaurus. As Dreamsand creatures fill the

streets, the Guardians and children rejoice.

Jamie stands in awe of a school of beautiful Dreamsand fish

as they float by. Suddenly, he's hit in the head with a

snowball. He turns to look and sees Jack, smiling. Jamie

picks up a snowball and throws it at his friends. Almost

instantaneously, a snowball fight ensures.

Sandy salutes Jack and North, who are standing off to the

side while the snowball fight escalates.

North tosses Jack a small item. Jack catches it and looks to

his open palm, it's a Russian nesting doll in the image of

Jack, similar to those found in North's workshop. Jack

smiles and North gives him a wink in return.

BOOF! North is suddenly hit by a snowball and turns. He

sees Claude, Caleb, and an elf; they immediately point

fingers at each other.

A beat, until North bursts out in laughter.

He throws a snowball, which hits Bunny smack in the face.

Pitch groans in pain, and rises up to see the town crawling

with Dreamsand creatures, snowballs flying and yetis playing.

He whips around to see the kids - having the time of their

lives - and no fear in their eyes. He rises up, his entire

body shaking with rage, and screams at them.

He lunges at Jamie who come running toward him, Pitch's hands

outstretched as if he's going to grab him by the throat. But

Jamie runs right through him, laughing, joyous.

Pitch gasps, realizing that he no longer has any power over

the children. The devastation plays across his face.

He sees the Guardians approach, standing side by side with

one another. Pitch turns and flees into the forest.

EXT. POND - NIGHT

Pitch runs through the shadows in terror. He comes crashing

through the trees of the forest, and out onto the ice of the

pond. He looks over his shoulder to see if the Guardians are

on his tail, when BOOM! He runs smack into North's chest.

Pitch slips on the ice, and falls backwards. He looks up to

see North smiling down at him.

Tooth tosses something to Pitch which he catches. He looks

down. It's a quarter.

BLAM. A fist punches him right in the jaw, and a single

tooth goes skittering across the ice. Tooth shakes out her

hand.

Hundreds of Nightmares emerge from the woods, surrounding the

pond. It's terrifying, but the Guardians seem unphased.

Suddenly, Pitch's eyes get huge with terror as the Nightmares

move in on him. He begins to back away, but the Nightmares

pick up speed as they charge toward him.

He tries to run, but it's impossible to get his footing on

the ice. He falters, and is swept up in the stampede of

Nightmares. The streaks of black whip and latch themselves

onto Pitch as the black cloud carries him through the forest.

Pitch struggles to escape, but the mass of black sand pulls

him deep into the forest, under the frame of the broken bed,

and back down into the dark depths of the underground. He

looks up at the moon as he disappears and the hole in the

earth seals itself up.

SEQ. 3200 - THE OATH

EXT. POND - THE MOON

Pale and faint in the day, but oddly close and welcoming. It

can't be, but -- is that the barest hint of a FACE on the

Moon? Jack smiles as he looks up at it. He hears Tooth's

laugh and turns to find North, Tooth, Bunny and Sandy, their

faces shining with pride.

Tooth comes flying in to give Jack a hug. She lifts him off

the ground as they embrace. They share a moment and she soon

recoils with giddy embarrassment as Baby Tooth interjects.

Jack acknowledges Baby Tooth and gently pats her on the side

of her face as North steps forward.

Jack looks over, a stern elf is hitting a horn against his

palm. A Yeti hands North the book we saw when Jack and the

Guardians first met. Sandy and Bunny share a boastful look.

North opens the book, flips through several pages, and takes

a moment before he speaks.

Jamie and his friends along with a crowd of yetis, elves, and

eggs all make their way across the pond to the rest of the

group. As they approach we see settle on Jamie, who stands

at the center of the group.

Jack takes a second to look back at Jamie, then back to

North.

Jamie and the kids erupt in a CHEER, as do the Yetis and

Eggs.

North picks up Jack, gives him a hug, and kisses him on both

cheeks. Jack winces, then looks up to North with a smile.

Imitating North, an elf picks up the elf standing next to him

and gives him a big kiss. After an awkward pause, the

affectionate elf is punched in the face.

Jack looks to see several fairies hovering nearby, forming

the shape of a heart. One of the swooning fairies faints and

falls to the ground.

The group looks up to the sky as North's sleigh comes in for

a landing. The tie-dyed elf rescues a lone egg from the skis

of the sleigh as it glides across the icy pond.

North turns away from Bunny and puts his hand on Jack's

shoulder.

As the kids look on in wonder, Sandy throws up his hands

creating a shower of Dreamsand, which drifts down on the

children.

Meanwhile, Bunny hands an egg to Sophie who giggles and pats

the brim of his nose.

Jamie realizes what's about to happen.

Jack looks back at Jamie, who seems wistful and worried.

Jack kneels down to look Jamie in the eye.

Jamie smiles. Jack stands up and heads toward the sleigh.

Jamie's friends stand off to the side rubbing their eyes as

they become drowsy.

Jamie runs over and wraps his arms around Jack. For a

moment, Jack's astonished and then gives Jamie a warm

embrace. Jack stands up and gets in the sleigh with the rest

of the Guardians.

Jack and the Guardians look toward the kids as the sleigh

takes off. Jamie RUNS behind the sleigh, following Jack. In

spite of it all, he doesn't want to let go. The sleigh takes

off into the sky. Jamie stops unable to follow.

Jack moves to the back of the sleigh as the Guardians pat him

on the back. Jack smiles...and forms a snowflake in his

hand. For Jamie, for all of us in the theatre. It glides

off his fingertips and flies toward camera as we...

