BOOK OF THE DEAD

"The Ultimate Experience In Grueling Terror"

By

Sam Raimi

Something evil is lurking deep withing the wooded moun-

tains of Tennessee, and the camera takes its point of

view. Rising from a swampy bog, the mud slides from view

allowing it to see early morning mist hanging about the

forest. Creeping silently past trees, gliding over small

shrubs, it moves onward through the woods until a mammoth

oak rests directly in its path. The tree is uprooted by

this unseen force, and falls with a deafening crash.

Near by, a stretch of highway curves along the base of

a mountain. The road winds off into oblivion beyond other

peaks. From behind view, the rumble of an engine can be

heard. It is a large logging truck headed south. Moving

away, the truck becomes smaller until finally it disap-

pears in the distance. From where the truck emerged, a

dilapidated gold 1973 Oldsmobile comes into view.

Inside, five people can be seen. They are couples ASHLY

and LINDA, SCOTT and SHELLY, and CHERYL, ASHLY's sister.

Both SCOTT and SHELLY wear "Michigan State" T-shirts,

and are students along with the others at that univer-

sity. SCOTT is driving and SHELLY sits next to him up

front. ASHLY, LINDA and CHERYL are in back. They listen

to an old "Baby Moses And The Thrillers" song on the

radio, and SHELLY is slapping the dash board as if it

were a drum.

(Singing with the music)... Together,

forever...

Ash, where are we?

I'll tell ya in a second. Now we're

still on seventy-five just past the

county border...

Once again, the camera takes the point of view of the

dark and brooding force which stops atop a forest ridge

to peer downward. Its view focuses upon the 1973 Olds-

mobile speeding along the narrow highway below.

ASHLY traces a route on the map with his finger.

...Which would put us...which would

put us...

Jesus Christ, just tell us already

will ya?

ASHLY zeroes in on the map with his finger.

...Right...

SCOTT is growing impatient.

...Right...

Yes?

Here!

Suddenly, the radio stops, and the steering wheel jerks

from SCOTT's hand.

The car screetches out of control into the opposite lane.

A large oncoming tanker truck with its horn screaming

races toward the car on a collision coarse.

Scotty, watch out!

The truck races closer.

Their steering wheel is locked.

Turn!

At the last possible instant, SCOTT's wheel again can

be controlled, and the car swerves sharply back into its

own lane.

The truck speeds harmlessly past them.

Damn it Scott, what the hell was that?

You trying to kill us?

Don't yell at me, it's your lousy

steering wheel. The damn thing jerked

right out of my hand.

I can't understand it. I just had

this thing in for a tune-up.

Radio's dead too, ace.

And I just had 'em tune up the whole

thing yesterday.

Well, then take it back 'cause the

damn thing don't work. Only thing

that works on the whole car is the

lousy horn.

SCOTT honks the horn.

Several local MEN walking down the highway respond to

the horn by waving.

SCOTT yells out the window at them.

Aw, go to hell, I'm not waving at ya!

He looks in the rear view mirror. The MEN are still wav-

ing in the distance. SCOTT turns back to drive.

Jesus Christ.

SHELLY turns around in the front seat and holds up a

pint of Scotch.

Well, I'd like to make a toast. To

Scott who almost killed us.

Aw, eat shit and die will ya?

SHELLY and the others laugh.

Okay, okay- then to a wild week-end

in a wonderful cabin with good friends,

(She glances at SCOTT) provided we

live that long.

SHELLY cooly drinks from the Scotch and passes the bottle

back to ASHLY and LINDA. ASHLY pours LINDA a drink in the

bottle cap and keeps the bottle. They raise their drinks.

...With good friends.

They toast, drink and react to the strong liquor. ASHLY

tries to hide his reaction to the Scotch in front of

LINDA, since SHELLY had reacted so calmly. ASHLY passes

the bottle to CHERYL who stops him with a polite "No,

thank you," then back up front to SCOTT.

Hey Scotty, what's this place like

anyway?

Well, the guy that's renting it says

it's an old place, little run down,

but it's right up in the mountains-

totally secluded. (He takes a drink

from the bottle) Best part is, we

get it so cheap.

Why are we getting it so cheap?

I don't know, might be in real bad

shape.

You mean nobody's seen this place

yet?

Not yet.

Might not be too bad.

No...

Actually, it might be very nice.

Yeah...

It's probably a real pit.

I can't believe that we're renting

a place for a week-end that nobody's

seen.

(Mumbling to himself) Jesus Christ,

not this again...

(Turning to ASHLY) You know, mom and

dad would never let us go up to a place

like this if they knew-

-Which is exactly why they don't know.

I'll tell you who I am gonna call.

The guys that fixed up this car.

The car approaches an exit along the highway.

ASHLY glances at the map again.

Hey, I think this is where we get

off.

The car turns off the main highway and follows several

back roads until it approaches a narrow dirt lane that

winds upward along a twin set of mountains.

SCOTT glances up to the peaks.

These mountains seem familiar.

What do they remind you of? Some-

thing majestic? Adventure?

Yeah, more like adventure.

Any adventure in particular?

Shelly's sweater.

ASHLY and SCOTT laugh out loud. LINDA laughs quietly,

and CHERYL lets out an embarassed giggle to herself.

(Teasing) Oooh, you're gonna get it

Scotty, when you least expect it,

you're gonna get it good.

Finally, the car arrives at a wooden bridge extending

over a great chasm. Carefully, the vehicle crosses.

It is late afternoon when they eventually arrive at their

destination. The small wooden cabin is surrounded by

thick dark woods. SCOTT shuts off the car but it contin-

ues to sputter and backfire.

ASHLY reacts to his car.

I...I sent 'em a check for the tune-up.

but I'm just not paying for it.

This place is perfect.

The woods come awfully close to the

house don't they?

So what's wrong with the woods, they

can't bite ya.

It's just a little claustrophobic

that's all.

Well, I think it's beautiful.

Me too, it's gonna be a bomb week-

end.

SCOTT moves to the front door of the cabin where he finds

a small ring of keys concealed on the shelf above the

door. ASHLY unloads the car to the others.

It's supposed to be one of these on

here.

After trying several keys, he is able to unlock the door.

The interior of the cabin is completely dark. SCOTT

opens the door and stands silhouetted in the doorway

for a moment, then enters to find the light switch.

The illumination reveals floors, walls, and ceilings

made of cedar. There are two small bedrooms, a kitchen,

and the main room which contains a stone fireplace set

into the wall. An old grandfather clock stands silently

in one corner, partially hidden in the shadows. A door

in the rear of the cabin leads to a small work shed

containing a work bench and an assortment of tools upon

the wall. Located centrally in the main room is a trap

door leading to the cellar. This catches SCOTT's eye.

Hey, this place has a dungeon.

CHERYL puts down a case of art supplies, and moves over

to SCOTT by the trap door. He unlocks a chain securing

the trap door with one of his keys and hands the ring

to SHELLY.

Put these back will you?

SHELLY leaves with the keys, and SCOTT tries to open the

hatch but cannot.

They nailed it shut.

Good, I don't like cellars. Probably

just some garbage down there anyways.

Cheryl, they don't nail garbage in

cellars. I mean it's not going to

try and get out or anything.

Well, what's down there?

Well, could be any number of things.

Old baseball cards, mushrooms, dead

bodies-

Hey, look at this!

LINDA is standing in the corner next to the old grand-

father clock. She repositions a balance weight, and it

begins to tick.

Ta daaaaaa!

The others applaud and whistle. LINDA smiles.

The cabin is seen from the outside. Twilight has come.

CHERYL sits alone in the living room near the window. She

is drawing sketches of the old clock. As she works, the

ticking stops unexpectedly. CHERYL puts down her pencil

and looks up to the clock. It stands silently in the cor-

ner with its hands frozen in position. There is a rust-

ling from the woods. CHERYL looks out the window but can

see only the trees. Something is moving outside, yet re-

mains hidden within the forest. A gust of wind fills the

room. CHERYL glances down at her hand. It turns a pale

white and begins to shake and jerk about uncontrollably.

She stares on incredulously as her hand, guided by some

unseen force picks up the pencil and begins to sketch

a figure upon her pad. The wind gales through the open

window but dies down slowly as her hand completes the

drawing. Whatever was at the edge of the woods has now

retreated further into them. Her hand loses the pale

cast and is now under control once more. CHERYL picks

up her pad of paper. The likeness of a book with some

form of ancient writing on its cover has been sketched.

She looks to the woods which are now silent. A snapping

of wood is heard from the cellar. CHERYL quickly turns

to the trap door still nailed shut in the floor. Pos-

sibly just a mouse, but she fixes her gaze upon it.

Another sound, almost like faint breathing comes from

the cellar.

ASHLY and LINDA enter from the kitchen. ASHLY is drink-

ing a beer and moves over to CHERYL. He stands between

her and the trap door.

What're you drawing Cheryl?

He picks up the piece of paper. LINDA looks over his

shoulder to glance at it.

I...I don't know.

Is it a bible?

No, no it's no bible. (She glances

again at the cellar, knowing some-

thing is down there) I don't know

what it is.

Well, this one of the clock's not

bad.

LINDA picks up the sketch and walks over to the clock

with it a few steps away. She stands comparing it to

the real thing with her back to CHERYL and ASHLY. She

is only a few inches from the trap door, and CHERYL

wants to call out in warning when ASHLY kneels in front

of her to speak secretly.

(In a whisper) I got it right here.

He taps something in his shirt pocket. CHERYL is looking

past him paying no attention. She watches only LINDA's

feet, waiting for whatever is in the cellar to grab them.

LINDA looks at the drawing in comparison.

Cheryl, this is really good. I like

how you did the numbers in that wood-

ish style.

ASHLY produces a small box from his shirt and opens it

quickly to show CHERYL. It contains a gold pendant on

a necklace. LINDA takes a step closer to the clock. She

is now standing almost upon the trap door. Although

nailed shut, it opens slightly, pulling the nails with

it. CHERYL gasps. ASHLY is pleased with her response.

(Still in a whisper) I knew you'd

like it.

Quickly, he places it back in his shirt and touches his

lips with a finger to indicate the secrecy of his sup-

rise. LINDA returns with the sketch and places it back

on CHERYL's small drawing table.

It's really good Cheryl. Very close

to the origional.

(In a relieved whisper) Yes, very

close.

I'm gonna check dinner.

LINDA returns to the kitchen and ASHLY turns to CHERYL.

You better get washed up. I'll see

ya in there.

He winks, then follows LINDA into the kitchen. CHERYL

again looks at the cellar. Slowly, from her point of

view, the camera moves in toward the trap door, wait-

ing...waiting.

A blender screams as it mixes up a drink in the kitchen.

SHELLY shuts it off and carries it to the dining room.

She joins the others who are now seated at the dinner

table and serves the mixture. SCOTT sits between LINDA

and CHERYL. He leans over to CHERYL.

(In a whisper) Dead bodies in the

cellar, dead bodies in the cellar...

Will you stop it?

Scott, leave her alone will ya?

SCOTT turns toward LINDA.

Will you relax, I'm just kidding

around. She can take a joke-

He stops talking as he hears the trickling of water. He

turns to see CHERYL finish pouring a glass of water in

his lap. The others laugh. SCOTT is silent for a moment,

then begins chuckling to himself. He turns to CHERYL.

(Jokingly) I'll get ya.

With a napkin, he blots the water from his pants.

I'll get ya for this Cheryl.

ASHLY stands with his drink and raises the glass.

I'd like to make a toast for all

here this evening. As a greek friend

of mine once said, "Nis-hat-nis-fert-

dis-ruben-tu-tar-im."

Which means?

Party down!

The laughter is stifled by a loud snap and cracking of

wood heard from the main room.

What the hell...

All stand from the table and hurry to the main room.

The nails that held down the trap door have been ripped

out, and although still in tact, the hatch is wide open.

They stand silently in front of it, looking blank as to

what could have done this. CHERYL is slighly more nervous

than the others. ASHLY is the first to speak.

(Slowly) What is this?

Whatever it is, it's still down there.

I don't like cellars, let's close it

up. (She does not want to deal with

it) It's probably just some animal.

An animal?! An an...ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-

that's the stupidest thing I ever

heard in my life. Jesus Christ.

SCOTT locates a flashlight and peers into the hole. He

traces the old wooden steps into darkness with his light.

Maybe it is just some animal.

Yeah, probably right. It's probably

just some animal. Uh...Cheryl, why

don't you make sure.

He hands the flashlight to CHERYL who quickly gives it

back.

Scotty, I'm not going down there!

Okay, okay you cowards, I'll go.

Scotty don't. You're crazy if you

go down there. Why don't you wait

until morning.

Look, I'll be all right.

What melodrama! What courage! A kiss

my brave hero.

SCOTT kisses SHELLY and with flashlight in hand, he descends

the narrow steps into the cellars blackness.

I, your virgin queen eagerly await

the precious moment when you will

ascend.

Virgin queen?! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-

He disappears below the floor. SHELLY, CHERYL, LINDA and

ASHLY wait above.

(Calling down) Hey Scott, see any-

thing?

There is no answer.

Hey Scott!...Scott!

He's just kidding around.

There is silence.

Isn't he?

No sounds come from the cellar.

Linda, get me a flashlight.

That's the only one we brought up.

ASHLY spots a lantern on the fireplace mantle.

Then get that lantern.

LINDA brings it over. ASHLY opens the kerosene valve,

lights the wick, and descends into the basement.

Down below, ASHLY moves quietly past the old stone walls

and wooden beams which support the main floor above. In

front of him stands an old door which leads to another

section of the cellar. Cautiously, he moves toward it.

Before he can touch it, the door swings open slowly with

a moan. ASHLY moves through the doorway and deeper into

the cellar. Condensation from water pipes above turn the

cellar into an echo chamber as drips fall into shallow

pools on the dirt floor below. As ASHLY scans with his

light, he spots a shadow move out the corner of his eye.

Scott?

ASHLY breaks into a cold sweat as he moves away from

the area where the shadow passed. He backs sqarely into

a pair of arms which grab him.

Ahhhhhhh!

It is only SCOTT behind him.

What the hell are you doing down

here, jerkin' off? How come you

didn't answer me?

When?

Just now, I mean upstairs.

I didn't hear you.

Oh well, did you find anything?

Uh-uh.

What's this?

SCOTT sweeps his light to another corner and reveals

several items atop a small table. Beneath a dusty cloth,

he finds a book which appears to be covered in some sort

of animal hide, with an ancient form of writing on the

cover. Along with this book, SCOTT and ASHLY uncover

a reel to reel tape recorder, an ancient dagger, and

other parapanalia including a box of rifle shells.

It is evening as darkness surrounds the small cabin.

The group sits huddled around the fireplace talking

quietly about school. The same bottle of Scotch is passed

around. ASHLY is rewinding the tape recorder, and once

this is done, he turns it on. The voice of an old man

is heard. ASHLY turns to the others who are talking.

Shhh, listen to this.

My name is Julian Knowby. I am a pro-

fessor of ancient Egyptian mythology

in Dextin university's ancient history

department...

This is the tape I found downstairs.

(Continuing)...I am recording this

entry from a small cabin in the south-

ern mountains of Tennessee. Here, I am

staying with my wife for a few weeks

so that I may continue my research un-

disturbed. Since May, a group of assoc-

iate professors and myself have been

excavating the ruins of Ca'n Dar. I

believe I have made an important find

in that area, and thus the reason for

this log. With it, I can keep an ac-

curate record of translations from

my latest find; the first of six, the

others still lost, volumes of ancient

Sumarian burial practices and rites.

Basically, it is a book of do's and

don'ts dealing with the deceased en-

titled "Naturan Demanto" roughly trans-

lated "Book Of The Dead." It is bound

in human flesh, and inked with blood

of the deceased...

Jeez, I'd hate to find out what they

used for pens.

(Continuing)...This particular volume

deals with demons and demon resurrect-

ion. These are of the Katardi family,

meaning those forces believed to inhab-

it the jungles and woods of man's do-

main. The first few pages that I have

translated warn that these demons are

dangerous, everpresent, and exist

primarily through this book. As legend

has it, only the sacred high priests

of the Ca'n Dar tribe could posess

these books, for they alone could

properly control the resurrected de-

mons. It is only through the act of

reciting the resurrection passage

that these demons would be able to

posess the living. For many years, it

was thought that this legend-

CHERYL turns off the machine at this point.

Hey, what'd you do that for? It was

just getting good.

I just don't want to hear any more

that's all.

(Singing) Cheryl's scared, Cheryl's

scared.

Scott, leave her alone will ya?

Jesus Christ.

He moves to the tape recorder and fast forewards it for

a bit then stops.

She's acting like a baby- it's no

big deal.

He turns the machine on. The passage continues.

Tantir-ah-mis-trobeen-ha-zar-ta

As the tape plays, all natural sounds from the forest

die out, and the autumn colors in the trees fade to a

gloomy grey.

Tantir-man-ov-mis-hazen-sober.

All eyes except CHERYL's turn to the window.

Outside, clouds roll in from the east, thunder booms in

the distance, and as the wind picks up, it begins to rain.

Kanda!

A section of ground deep within the woods begins to crack,

and opens. Smoke seeps out from within, as if some evil

force was now being unleashed.

(In a whisper) Shut it off.

Kanda!

The winds howl, and blackbirds fly from their nests,

screaming.

(Louder now) Shut it off.

ASHLY, hearing her for the first time, turns from the

window to CHERYL. She is overwhealmed with fear.

Kanda!

A bolt of lightning strikes very near and its thunder

crash is deafening.

CHERYL can no longer control herself. She screams and

covers her ears.

Shut it offffff!

The window shatters when a branch from a nearby tree

tears through it. ASHLY runs to the tape recorder and

turns it off. CHERYL is crying now, and runs to her room.

ASHLY turns to SCOTT.

Scott, you knew not to play it, I

mean...I mean you knew it was upset-

ting her. You just don't know when

you're carrying something too far.

(To SHELLY) C'mon. (Back to ASHLY)

Big deal, it's just a joke, shit.

SCOTT and SHELLY head for their bedroom. SCOTT mumbles

to himself along the way.

You'd think she's three years old or

something.

SCOTT slams the door behind him. ASHLY sighs. He moves

to the broken window and reaches through it to close

the outside shutters.

He's really been bothering you hasn't

he?

ASHLY walks to a chair near the other window.

No. It's not Scott. Scotty's okay.

It's just that ever since we came

up here, things have been a little

too tense. (He sits) All these crazy

things going on. And look at that

window- we're gonna have to pay for

that window now.

It'll be better tomorrow. Things'll

smooth out, you'll see.

I hope so.

He looks at LINDA lovingly for a long moment.

What'ya say we stay up for a while

and listen to the storm.

Deal. Lemme check on Cheryl. I'll be

right back.

From across the room, she is seen opening CHERYL's door

a crack. LINDA asks if she is all right, and gets a

muffled reply. In the foreground, ASHLY removes the

small box he showed to CHERYL earlier and places it in

his hand. He glances behind to LINDA. She closes CHERYL's

door and walks back to find ASHLY sound asleep with the

box in his hand. She reaches for the box and ASHLY opens

his eyes to watch. LINDA looks at him, but his eyes are

closed again in time to still appear fast asleep. LINDA

turns her attention back to the box. ASHLY watches again

wide-eyed as she removes it from his hand. Quickly,

LINDA turns to him but as expected, ASHLY is sleeping

like a baby. She begins to turn back toward the box

and ASHLY opens his eyes, but LINDA turns back again

in time to catch him with his eyes wide open.

Ah ha!

(Laughing) Stealing from the blind

eh? It's for you.

LINDA begins to open the box.

It better be good.

The gold necklace is revealed inside.

Oh Ash, it's beautiful.

LINDA kisses ASHLY. He removes the necklace from the box

and holds it around her neck.

(Fastening it around her neck) I was

going to give it to you before we

left, but things got so hectic, this

is the first chance I've had. Do you

like it?

LINDA moves to a mirror.

It's beautiful. I really love it.

(She turns to ASHLY) I'll never take

it off.

Lightning strikes as something in the woods examines the

small cottage. Through the outside window, ASHLY and

LINDA can be seen embracing. This force watching them

moves around the house to another window. The silhouette

of SCOTT and SHELLY undressing can be seen. The force

continues around and arrives at CHERYL's window. Inside,

she brushes her hair in front of the mirror for a

moment, then sets down her brush and moves to the window.

She stops to uncrumple the sketch drawn earlier, looks

at it, then out to the dark woods.

CHERYL can faintly hear some kind of sound. It is the

same sound she had heard earlier from the cellar. A

noise almost like that of something breathing.

The evil entity rounds the corner of the cabin as CHERYL

walks through the rooms to the front door. She can be

seen stepping out the door. It closes behind her. Wind

shaking the tree branches sends dead leaves fluttering

about.

(Calling to the woods) Is anybody

out there?

There is no answer. CHERYL steps away from the cottage

toward the woods.

The breeze animates her nightgown and it too seems alive.

CHERYL stops.

I know someone's out there...I

heard you...I heard you in the cellar.

Suddenly, CHERYL becomes chilled. She folds her arms

around herself and stands at the woods edge, listening.

There is only darkness and sounds of the evening wind

blowing through the trees. CHERYL steps into the forest

a few feet then stops. A cry deep within the woods can

be heard. She freezes. Whispering in the distance grows

somewhat louder and a soft wail is heard- like that of

something long since dead, dredged up to roam the earth

again. CHERYL is about to turn back toward the cabin

when a rustling comes from a group of trees about twenty

yards behind her. She stops. No sound. Nothing moves.

Several yards to her left a twig snaps suddenly. She

turns but there is silence again. The winds die down,

leaving a deathly stillness throughout the woods. Then,

all at once, the entire forest becomes alive in a flurry

of chaotic noises and movement. Snake-like vines wrap

around her ankles and slither up her legs. Tree branches

near by begin to claw and rake at her. The force is now

moving through the woods toward her. CHERYL is able to

break the vines and run toward the cabin. She emerges

from the woods and into the clearing. The force is

still following.

CHERYL reaches the cabin door but it is locked. She

begins pounding upon the door.

Help, help, let me in. Open the door!

The evil entity now emerges from the woods.

Ashly! Linda! Open up!

CHERYL spots the small key ring above the door where

SHELLY had returned them earlier. One by one, she fran-

tically jams one key after another into the lock, but

still cannot find the right one. The force comes closer

with each key.

Please, someone please! Help me, help

meeeee!

The evil entity is almost upon her, but her actions are

so frantic that the ring falls to the ground. She bends

down to pick them up, but a hand grabs her arm. It is

SCOTT who has opened the door from the inside. She

pushes him in the door and slams it tightly.

What the hell happ-

(In hysterics) It...it tried to kill

me. I, I heard a noise and...and I

ran and the trees...the trees!

What are you-

He is cut off by ASHLY approaching with the others.

Cheryl what's wrong with you? Did

something in the woods do this to

you?

No, no, no...the woods themselves-

The trees- they're alive...

She hugs ASHLY tightly and cries in hysterical sobs.

They're alive...

Ash, why don't I take her into the

bedroom so she can lie down a little-

(Cutting her off) -I'm not lying

down! I'm not staying here. We're

leaving this place, we're leaving

this place right now!

Wait a minute, I'm sure as hell not

going anywhere.

Cheryl-

Cheryl, there's nothing out there.

Trees do not attack people.

Ashly, will you drive me into town

or not?

(Looking at his watch) Right Now?

(He realizes how desperate she is)

Sure, sure I'll drive you into town.

But if you'll just listen to what

you're saying, you-

I don't care how it sounds. I want

to leave this minute. You can bring

back my things when you go.

Okay- if you don't want to stay, I

can't make you.

LINDA puts a coat around CHERYL as ASHLY helps her to

the door.

ASHLY and CHERYL move to the car. ASHLY helps CHERYL in

then then gets in the drivers side.

I'll stay some place in town tonight.

ASHLY tries to start the car. There is no response.

CHERYL becomes somewhat worried. ASHLY tries again.

The car will not turn over. A look of dread comes

across CHERYL's face.

SCOTT and the others join the two outside.

It's not gonna start.

ASHLY again tries the engine.

I know it's not gonna start. It's

not gonna let us leave.

ASHLY keys the engine and it turns over this time, start-

ing up with a roar. ASHLY, worried by CHERYL's condition

glances over to her. Confused and upset, CHERYL turns

away from ASHLY and looks out her window. They drive off

into the night through the wooded mountains toward town.

ASHLY glances at CHERYL who is studying the forest in-

tensely for any sign of movement. The concern for his

sister is made obvious by the expression on his face.

Their car approaches the narrow bridge area and slows

down.

Why are you slowing down?

ASHLY brings the car to a halt.

What is this?

ASHLY's gaze is fixed directly ahead, and his mouth opens

slowly. He flips on the high beams which stab through the

evening mist.

The bridge over the chasm has been torn away. CHERYL is

silent as ASHLY walks to the ravine's edge to examine

any remains.

(Mumbling to herself) No, no, no, no,

no...it's not going to let us leave,

it's not going to let us go...it's

not gonna let us gooooo!

An axe is raised into the air, then brought down smash-

ing upon a log, splitting it in two. SCOTT is chopping

wood outside the cabin. Behind him, through a window,

CHERYL sits with a cup of tea in her hand watching him.

SCOTT sets his axe down, gathers the wood and moves

away. CHERYL shifts her gaze from SCOTT to the woods

beyond. The camera moves in toward CHERYL then past

her to SHELLY and LINDA who can be seen playing cards

on the floor. ASHLY is seated near the fireplace with

the tape recorder in front of him. He plugs an earphone

in so only he can hear it. SCOTT enters the cabin and

passes in front of ASHLY to drop his wood to one side

of the fireplace. He throws a log in, and heads back

outside.

From inside, LINDA speaks.

Cheryl, wanna play some cards?

(Turning with a smile) Uh-uh.

CHERYL turns to face the window again.

Hey, tomorrow morning, we'll find

some way around that cliff into town

okay?

Okay.

Outside the window, SCOTT chops more wood for the nights

fire. ASHLY turns on the tape recorder to listen with

the ear plug.

March 12th. Suzanne came after me

and almost murdered me. My own wife.

At first I thought it was a mental

or physical disorder because of what

had happened to her eyes, but I was

only fooling myself. I knew what it

was.

Outside the window, SCOTT continues to chop and gather

wood. SHELLY, still engaged in cards with LINDA, holds

up one in particular.

Okay, guess this card.

How am I going to know what card

that is?

Guess, I'm going to see if you're

psychic.

The card is a two of clubs.

Okaaaay...is it a queen?

Right!

Really?

Yeah.

Hey Ash, I guessed the card right.

(indifferently) Truly amazing Linda.

He is listening intently to the log as it continues.

Three days have passed since that

thing has been down there. I was hop-

ing to weaken it without food or

water. Nothing worked. Finally, in

desperation I dragged her out to the

shed and dismembered her so that what-

ever it was could not get up again.

Cheryl, did you see that?

CHERYL remains with her back to them staring out the

window.

Try this one.

She removes a nine of clubs from the deck and holds it up.

Okay, lemme think, uh...

She puts her hands to her head in a curved funnel form-

ation as if to direct her thoughts to the card.

...Um, it's a seven.

Oh my God, what suit?

Diamonds, no wait! I mean hearts!

That's right- seven of hearts!

Hey Ash, did you see that? I guessed

two cards in a row.

(Still not paying attention) How do

you do it Linda?

He is concentrating on the tape.

This is when I saw the dark figures

moving about in the woods. I should

have never tampered with the "Book

Of The Dead." I now know that what-

ever it is I have resurrected through

this book, is coming for me.

You know, I always thought I had

some sort of extra sense. You know,

like e.s.p or something.

What's this one?

She holds up the queen of spades.

Another seven!

I don't believe it!

(Still looking outside) Queen of

spades.

SHELLY looks at her card then back to CHERYL. She holds

up another card.

Four of hearts.

The card is a four of hearts. SHELLY bites her lip in

fear and reaches for another card. ASHLY and LINDA listen

in silence.

Eight of spades.

SHELLY picks up the card. CHERYL is correct again.

Two of spades- jack of diamonds-

jack of clubs-

Faster and faster she calls them off. Even before SHELLY

can flip them to keep up. Suddenly, CHERYL turns toward

the group. Her eyes are bone white. SHELLY's deck of

cards slip from her hand and scatter across the floor.

CHERYL's body is hoisted up to its feet and jerked about

like a white-eyed marionette. She speaks in a voice un-

like her own.

Why have you disturbed our sleep,

awakened us from our ancient slum-

ber? You will die. Like the others

before you. We will take you one by

one. All of you ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-

She screams in a low gruff voice and collapses to the

floor.

Oh my God, Shelly, get Scott in here!

SHELLY does not respond.

Hurry!

She exits through the front door. LINDA moves to CHERYL

and lifts her head gently. CHERYL appears unconcious but

behind her, she reaches for a pen.

Did you see her eyes? I'm scared.

What's wrong with her?

ASHLY begins to speak when SCOTT and SHELLY enter.

What happened to her?

CHERYL's hand clutches the pen tightly.

Look at her eyes.

SCOTT's hand reaches for CHERYL's eyes to inspect them,

but they blink open. The pen in her hand races upward,

then slashes down, ripping into LINDA's achilles tendon.

LINDA screams fiercely and with a blur, the bloodied

pen is raised again. ASHLY grabs CHERYL's arm stopping

her, but with a powerful swipe, she swings her remaining

arm at LINDA who is sent sprawling across the cabin

floor. CHERYL then clutches ASHLY and, almost lifting

him, sends his body reeling across the room into a book-

case which topples over, trapping him beneath its weight.

SHELLY stands screaming as CHERYL now advances toward

ASHLY's face with the bloody pen. He struggles to pull

himself out but cannot. CHERYL is almost upon him when

SCOTT grabs her from behind. Effortlessly, she tosses

him off and moves toward ASHLY again. SCOTT climbs to

his feet and grabs the axe. CHERYL raises the pen above

ASHLY's face, and SCOTT gives her a sharp jab in the

jaw with the wooden handle. CHERYL stumbles past LINDA

and falls backwards, head first into the cellar. She

begins to climb out but SCOTT slams the trap door shut

upon her hand. It won't close. CHERYL starts to push

the trap door open from below. SCOTT climbs on top

and is almost thrown off until he viciuosly rams the

butt of his axe down upon her protruding hand. Demented

screams and moans are heard from below as CHERYL's hand

is finally pulled back and SCOTT manages to secure the

chain across the hatch.

Later that evening, LINDA is seen in her bed, sleeping.

ASHLY covers her with a blanket, kisses her, and walks

to the door, closing it quietly behind him.

ASHLY joins SCOTT and SHELLY who sit near the fire in

the main room. From the cellar, strange moans, sobs and

laughter emerge, then horrible rasping sounds from CHERYL's

breathing. Through the next sequence of dialogue, her

breathing becomes louder then somewhat quiet.

She'll be okay Ash, she just took a

bad bump.

(Quietly) Yeah.

SCOTT and SHELLY listen to the strange noises from below

as ASHLY looks out the window to the woods beyond.

We've still got a few hours before

morning.

I don't know if I can wait that

long.

You have to. We all have to. Then,

once it's light out, we'll try to

find a way to get around that chasm.

(Covering her ears) Why does she keep

making those horrible noises?

I don't know.

And what about her eyes?

ASHLY and SCOTT are quiet.

What about her eyes? (Desperately)

For God's sake what happened to

her eyes?!

CHERYL patiently sits in the cellars darkness with a

streak of light across her eyes from the crack in the

trap door. Her head is slightly tilted as she watches

and listens to what is said above. From her point of

view we hear SCOTT speak to SHELLY.

Everything's gonna be all right.

CHERYL's lips part slightly and a thick blackish yellow

liquid drools out between her teeth. She grins.

Outside, the forest is very dark. The unseen force moves

from the wooded area, pushing over small trees and shrubs

as it advances. The cottage comes into view and the evil

entity glides up to it. The figure of a girl in the cabin

window can be seen looking out. The force stops and moves

behind a bush.

Inside, SHELLY is studying the woods.

Scotty, I...I think there's some-

thing out there.

SCOTT joins her at the window and looks out.

From within the woods, this force watches SCOTT peer out,

but he can see nothing. Through the window he says some-

thing to reassure SHELLY and moves away.

Inside, SCOTT can be heard in mid sentence.

...Is to get some rest. Ash and I

can stay up with Cheryl.

Okay.

Everything's gonna be okay. Come

morning- you'll see.

SHELLY heads to her bedroom. SCOTT walks back to the

fireplace and sits. He slices twigs from a branch with

the Sumarian dagger and tosses them into the fire. ASHLY

glances at the Book Of The Dead, then to the old clock.

It stands silent.

Again, the evil entity watches from outside. It sees

SHELLY leave one room and turn the lights on in another.

She begins to undress near the window. The force now

moves from behind its cover and rushes at tremendous

speed to SHELLY who is looking out her bedroom window.

She sees it and sheer terror covers her face as a scream

stifles itself in her throat, but it is too late.

A noise is heard from SHELLY's bedroom. SCOTT drops the

small stick he was whittling and looks up. He places

the dagger on the floor and walks toward SHELLY's room.

Shelly, are you okay?

She does not answer. SCOTT approaches her door and turns

to ASHLY.

Keep an eye on Cheryl for a minute.

SCOTT enters the darkness of her room and sees nothing

amidst the shadows.

SCOTT

Shelly?

He looks over to her window. It is open, and wind blows

upon the curtains.

SCOTT steps into SHELLY's bathroom and sees that the

shower curtain is drawn. Cautiously, he moves up to it.

Shelly?

He pulls the curtain back to reveal an empty tub. SCOTT

turns back to the bedroom when SHELLY steps into the

doorway, posessed. With a scream, she latches upon SCOTT.

Her eyes have gone bone white and she claws at SCOTT's

face and clothes with her nails.

Screaming, SCOTT stumbles through her bedroom with SHELLY

still upon him biting at his throat.

They stagger into the main room where SCOTT manages to

knock SHELLY off himself and into the fireplace. She

remains motionless as her head smolders upon the hot

coals. SCOTT rushes to her, grabs an arm and pulls her

out. SHELLY's face and hair on one side of her head are

seared and blackened. She blinks her eyes open, turns

her charred head to SCOTT, and speaks in a rasp.

Thank you. I don't know what I would

have done if I had remained on the hot

coals burning my pretty flesh. You

have pretty skin- give it to us!

Cackling, SHELLY clutches SCOTT's neck and begins throttl-

ing the life out of him with a vice-like grip. He tries

to break the hold but cannot. ASHLY also tries but with

a backhand blow, SHELLY knocks him into a cabinet, smash-

ing it to bits. A garbled cry for help escapes from

SCOTT's frothing mouth. SHELLY reaches down, picks up

the Sumarian dagger, and holding SCOTT by his throat

with one hand, she raises the dagger with the other.

ASHLY, slightly injured, crawls to his feet. SCOTT

grabs her raised arm and although choking, swings

his camping knife from its side sheath and slices

deep into SHELLY's raised wrist, almost severing it.

A murky black ooze pumps from the wound. She emits

an ear splitting- howl and tightens her grip on SCOTT's

throat. He drops the hunting knife. ASHLY watches

terrified, unable to move as SHELLY raises her dangling

hand (Still clutching the dagger) to her mouth and

bites it off. The useless part falls to the floor

with the dagger still firmly in its fist. SCOTT, now

almost dead, grabs her severed hand clutching the

dagger and in a last attempt, swings it around ramming

the blade into her spine.

SHELLY screetches along with CHERYL in the cellar, the

old grandfather clock gongs and lightning strikes all

at the same instant. SHELLY reaches around with her

remaining arm to clutch at the severed hand and knife

protruding from her own back. A thick black ooze pours

from the wound as she bends backward screaming. ASHLY

stands in horror, clutching the axe, unable to move.

Black ooze runs from SHELLY's mouth as her body writhes

about spasmatically upon the floor. Gradually, the move-

ments cease and she is dead. As SCOTT slowly stands to

his feet, SHELLY's arm grabs his leg.

Ahhhhhhh!

Some force reanimates her, even though the body is

dead.

No...no...no...

Hit her!

SHELLY's body is hoisted up, jerking about to its feet,

and laughing madly.

Hit it!

SCOTT screams this as he backs toward ASHLY who stands

with the axe, paralyzed. Gurgling black ooze, SHELLY

advances toward them with one remaining arm. SCOTT

grabs the axe from ASHLY, pushes him away and slams

it into her. Lightning flashes, thunder booms, and

CHERYL screams from the cellar. SCOTT brings his axe

down again and again in a frenzy. Then, after the

final chop, there is silence.

SHELLY's body remains on the floor for quite some time-

until ASHLY can cope with the fact that she is dead and

something must be done.

Uh...Scott.

Yeah.

What is uh...what are we gonna do?

Bury her.

You...can't bury Shelly. She's a friend

of ours isn't she?

Ash, she's dead.

ASHLY moves away from SCOTT.

Shelly's dead. We're gonna bury

her now.

ASHLY bites his lip and looks about blankly.

Finally, the body is dragged outside and buried near

the work shed. Harsh floodlights from the house make the

task look very stark and barren.

SCOTT and ASHLY return inside. ASHLY heads to LINDA's

room to check in on her.

He peers in to see LINDA sleeping peacefully.

ASHLY quietly returns to the main room. SCOTT is load-

ing new batteries into a flashlight.

I saw an old hiking trail when we

were driving up here. Now I don't

know if it goes all the way around

that gorge-

-Or if it's even still in tact.

Or if it's even still in tact. But

uh, I guess I'll find out. Take good

care of Linda.

I will. Do you have everything?

(Putting on a small back pack) Yeah-

all set.

Listen...Scotty...I'm sorry about

falling apart like that when-

Don't bother, really.

He steps out the door.

If I find a way out of here, I'll

mark it and then come back. Then if

I'm not back here in a few hours...

if for some reason...well, if I don't

come back, grab Linda, leg and all,

and just get her the hell out of here.

They shake hands.

You're a good man.

Good, I'm the best.

ASHLY smiles a good-bye to SCOTT and watches him move

off into the night. He lingers for a moment by SHELLY's

grave, then slowly disappears into the woods.

ASHLY closes the door and turns back to the main room.

He sees CHERYL's eyes through the crack in the cellar.

She has been watching all of this through a space be-

tween the trap door and floor. ASHLY walks past her to

LINDA's room.

He opens the door and a crack of light falls across her.

LINDA wakes up.

Who's there? Ash?

It's me Linda.

Ash, I had a bad dream about Linda.

You did baby?

Yeah. She's all right isn't she?

Yeah. Fine.

Is Shelly okay too Ash?

ASHLY can no longer hide his fear and anxiety. He speaks

in a whisper so as not to let his voice quiver.

Yeah, sure. She's sleeping that's

all.

Ash, I love you. (She turns over)

Get some rest.

ASHLY closes the door behind him and the fear from a few

hours ago engulfs him once more.

ASHLY moves into the main room and stops dead in his

tracks when a voice in the cellar speaks.

You lied to her. You lied to Linda.

Shelly's not sleeping. She's dead.

Don't you know the difference? You

killed her. You and Scott cut her up

with the axe. She's dead ha-ha-ha-ha-

ha-ha-

ASHLY picks up the axe and slams it down upon the trap

door. CHERYL is silent from below for a moment, then

the hatch opens an inch or so. (The length of the chain

securing it) CHEYL's white eyes can be seen again.

Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-

ASHLY takes the axe and steps outside.

He begins to chop wood, taking out his emotions upon

the logs with each blow. SHELLY's blood can still be

seen on the blade of the axe.

From her dungeon, CHERYL watches ASHLY chop wood in the

window. The shadow of his axe rising then striking is

seen over her white eyes.

Exhausted, ASHLY puts down the axe. He looks off into

the woods but there is no sign of SCOTT. He returns to

the cabin.

CHERYL begins her taunting again.

Soon all of you will be like me and

then who will lock you in the cellar?

Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-

CHERYL begins to violently ram her fists against the trap

door. ASHLY walks by her to LINDA's room.

She is still asleep. Quietly, so as not to wake her, ASHLY

pulls back her blanket exposing the bandaged leg. He re-

moves the wrappings and looks at the wound. As he does

this, it infects with a blackened coloration at an in-

credible speed. ASHLY looks up to see if LINDA is still

sleeping and sees that she has been watching him with

white eyes and an evil grimace upon her face. She lets

out a low growl.

ASHLY jolts backwards out of her room to escape through

the front door. He steps outside and stops to look back

in. He can see the main room, but finds it difficult to

see in LINDA's room, being lost in the shadows. Something

ragged and bloody grabs him. It is SCOTT's mutilated

body ripped and torn to shreds. He is still alive. ASHLY

looks behind him through the door to LINDA's room. He

can barely make out LINDA who sits on the bed watching

him with glaring white eyes. ASHLY helps SCOTT to the

couch so he can sit. SCOTT is in agony and can barely

speak.

Ash, I think I'm dying. Jesus, I

can't feel my legs.

Uh...uh Scotty you're gonna be okay.

You're gonna be just fine- you'll see.

He throws another log on the fire.

You'll see.

He looks off into LINDA's bedroom again, but she is gone.

She is now sitting in the corner of the main room where

ASHLY is, watching him. SCOTT begins to cough with hor-

rible rasping sounds.

It's, it's not gonna let us leave...

Cheryl...Cheryl was right...we're

all gonna die here...

We're not gonna die!

...All gonna die. All of us.

ASHLY grabs SCOTT and shakes him violently.

We're not gonna die! We're not gonna

die! We're getting out of here! Now

listen to me- is there a way around

the chasm.

SCOTT passes out.

Scotty. Scott!

ASHLY slaps SCOTT. He stirs awake and mumbles.

Jesus Ash. I don't want to die. So...

so lonely to die like this. You're not

gonna leave me are you? Are you Ash?

(Imitating SCOTT) I don't want to

die. So lonely to die like this. You're

not gonna leave me are you? Are you

Ash? Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-

Scott, is there some way around the

chasm?

Ash, I'm scared- I...I can't feel

my legs.

Scott, listen to me please, for

God's sake. Is there a way around

the chasm?

There is...one way, the trail...but

the trees, they know...don't you see-

they're alive!! They're ali-ahhhhhhh!

His sentence is cut short as he cries out in sharp pain.

Blood dribbles from his nostrils and he doubles over

grabbing his stomach. LINDA begins to laugh. ASHLY looks

to her, or rather what posesses her with hatred.

Shut up!

She continues to laugh. CHERYL in the cellar joins in

the laughter. ASHLY walks to LINDA and slaps her but

she continues. He grabs a hunting rifle from a rack on

the wall, loads it with shells, flips off the safety

and places the barrels against LINDA's head.

God forgive me Linda.

The laughter stops and her eyes return to normal. It

is LINDA again. ASHLY puts down the rifle.

Ash, oh Ash, help Me! Please.

She hugs him tightly.

Don't let them take me away again,

please, please, please.

(Crying and holding her tightly) I

won't, I won't- I promise.

CHERYL's voice is heard from the blackness of the cellar.

Ashly? Ashly, help me. Let me out

of here. I'm all right now.

ASHLY releases LINDA and moves cautiously to the cellar.

LINDA remains behind nervously fumbling with her necklace.

I'm all right now, Ashly. I'm all

right. Come unlock this chain and

let me out.

Cheryl?

There is no reply from the cellar. ASHLY looks through

the crack but sees only darkness. He reaches for the

chain and begins to unlock it, but sensing something

wrong, he stops.

Cheryl?

He puts his ear to the floor listening for the slight-

est sound. CHERYL's arms rip through the floor boards

and grab ASHLY's head. He breaks away and her hand

reaches for the chain but cannot quite grasp it. Slowly

it withdraws beneath the floor.

(A little too sweet) Ash, what are you

doing? This is your sister Cheryl. Don't

you recognize me?

Her voice drifts off, and the evil leughter resumes from

the celler.

(Crying and yelling to the cellar)

You bastards! Why are you doing this?

Why?

There is silence for a moment. Laughter from behind him

begins again. It is LINDA. Her eyes are white once more,

and she laughs at ASHLY.

Oh...Linda.

With newly found courage, ASHLY angrily grabs LINDA by

the legs and drags her outside.

It's useless, useless, useless. In

time we'll come for him, then you

ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-

ASHLY leaves her in the woods and runs back to the cabin,

closing the door behind him.

SCOTT is coughing again.

Ash, Ash, please...I don't want to

die- but...but I can't stand this

pain. It hurts Ash. Gimme something.

Gimme something to put me out.

Scott, I can't. I- I know it's bad.

But I can't be alone now, I can't.

I'd lose my mind.

Please Ash, please.

You'll get better- you'll see.

LINDA's laughter is faintly heard outside. ASHLY moves

to the window and pulls back the curtain. LINDA is no

longer in the woods but sitting at the edge of the clear-

ing, watching ASHLY with her glowing white eyes.

Yeah, tomorrow, soon, you'll be

better and we'll both get out of

here tomorrow.

There is no tomorrow! You- you've

got to kill her and cut- cut her

up- your sister too.

No, that was only with Shelly. You

had to with Shelly. You- Linda loves

me. You're delirious- I...I'll get

you some water.

ASHLY places a glass to Scott's lips.

Now, now the sun will be up in an

hour or so and we'll get out of here

...together. You, me, Linda, Shelly-

n-no not Shelly, she- we'll all go

home together. Wouldn't you like to

be going home? You'd like that I'd

bet, wouldn't ya?

There is no answer from SCOTT. The water runs out of

his mouth.

...Scott.

SCOTT is dead. LINDA's laughter is heard again. ASHLY

walks to the window and pulls back the curtain. There

is nothing there. He turns and she is there! With the

Sumarian dagger, LINDA rips into ASHLY's shirt, cutting

his arm. He screams and watches in horror as she runs

her tongue over the dagger, licking the blood from it.

She turns her attention toward ASHLY again but he grabs

her and they struggle. LINDA backs ASHLY up against

SCOTT, knocking his body to the floor. CHERYL's gnarled

arm reaches up through the broken floor boards and

grabs at ASHLY's foot. He manages to turn LINDA's arm

so the knife is behind her back. Forcefully, ASHLY

pushes her over the body of SCOTT and she falls back-

ward upon the dagger, impaling herself upon it. The

blade tears into her back and rips through her stomach.

Lightning flashes, thunder roars, and LINDA screams in

a deep growl once, then all is quiet.

ASHLY drags LINDA's corpse past the crumpled body of

SCOTT, past CHERYL, who watches all of this from below,

through the back door and out to the work shed.

He lifts her up onto the work bench and secures her body

to it with a number of chains which hang from nails

along the wall. He rips down a tarp hanging on the

wall to reveal a chain saw. He starts it up and moves

toward her. Buzzing madly, the saw is lowered to a

position several inches above LINDA's neck. ASHLY looks

into LINDA's face. Her eyes have gone back to blue. He

turns off the saw.

(In a whisper) Linda...

He drops the saw and breaks down crying over LINDA's

body.

An evening mist drifts out of the woods and cloaks the

shed as ASHLY carries LINDA's body outside for burial.

He lays the body upon the ground and picks up a shovel.

Harsh floodlights from the corners of the cabin create

strange shadows on the ground as ASHLY digs LINDA's

grave. She lies on her back during the digging. One of

her eyes opens. It is white. ASHLY drops the shovel

and looks at her. She appears to be dead.

Inside the cabin, CHERYL begins slamming her fists

against the trap door in the cellar again. She wants

out. The screws holding the hatch in place begin to

loosen.

ASHLY places LINDA's corpse in the grave, oblivious to

CHERYL's pounding. He begins to cover her with dirt.

CHERYL has ripped out all but one screw which holds the

trap door in tact.

ASHLY glances to the grave and sees LINDA's necklace on

top of the dirt mound. He reaches down to pick it up

when LINDA's hand shoots up from beneath the grave and

grabs him! She pulls herself up out of the grave scream-

ing and clutches ASHLY's leg with a black and bloodied

hand. He twists around, trying to free himself, but she

will not let go. By now, LINDA is almost completely out

of the grave. With her fingernails, she rips into ASHLY's

leg, tearing his skin. Screaming, he picks up a large

log nearby and swings it roundhouse into her face again

and again, breaking the wood into smaller bits. She grabs

the log with him clinging to the other end, lifts him

up and throws ASHLY log and all, away from her. ASHLY

hits the ground with considerable force and for the

first time begins to comprehend the power of this thing

he is dealing with. Thick black ooze pours from LINDA's

nose and mouth as she turns toward ASHLY sprawled on

the ground.

Stay back.

His hand gropes for the handle of the spade. LINDA

advances toward him, laughing.

Linda please, if you can still hear

me. Keep away.

His fingers tighten on the wooden handle. With a scream,

she lunges toward him. From the ground, ASHLY swings the

spade upward, lopping off her head. The head falls into

the mud, but the body falls upon him, grabbing and jerk-

ing about spasmatically. Thick black ooze pumps from

her neck and ASHLY manages to pull himself out from

underneath the body. He backs away in disgust and falls.

He picks himself up again and sees LINDA's necklace

upon the ground. ASHLY stashes it in his pocket and

staggers back to the cabin.

Inside, he looks to the main room beyond SCOTT's body.

Oh.....

It is a moan from deep inside him. The trap door is open

and CHERYL is gone. ASHLY walks over and kicks it shut.

A slight breeze sweeps through the front door causing

SHELLY's bedroom door to creak open. ASHLY picks up the

rifle again and cautiously moves to the door.

He enters. The room is dark and the closet door bangs

back and forth because of the breeze. ASHLY moves toward

it, grabs the handle and slowly opens the door. Only

clothes are inside. He turns toward the other end of

the room and CHERYL pops up in the window right by him.

He swings and fires, shattering the window. CHERYL

backs away and spots the open front door.

The door...

He makes a mad dash through SHELLY's room.

In the main room, ASHLY races for the door.

Outside, CHERYL is almost upon the door.

ASHLY arrives in time, but CHERYL has already started

reaching in. He slams the door on her fingers and rams

his gun butt down upon them. Horrible screams are heard

as CHERYL withdraws her hand. ASHLY is able to slam

the door and bolt it. He runs to the back entrance lead-

ing to the shed and locks it also. On his way back to

the main room, he pumps his rifle in preparation. It is

his last shell.

(To himself) More shells. Where did

I see that box of shells?

From the basement, the trap door lifts open and ASHLY

decends. The bottom step, now rotten, breaks under his

weight, and ASHLY sprawls to the floor. Slowly, he picks

himself up and walks through the dividing stone doorway

beneath the water pipes to a small table. On it, he finds

the box of shells and quickly loads them into the gun.

He ascends the steps and enters the main room once more.

The sound of ticking catches ASHLY's attention. He looks

up to see the old grandfather clock slowly winding back-

wards. He watches and waits tensely. Turning carefully,

ASHLY tries to monitor all the windows. The ticking grows

louder. A shadow passes in the window before him and he

fires, shattering the glass into a million pieces. Wind

whips through the cabin swirling glass and leaves to the

floor. ASHLY waits, leaning against the front door for

something to happen. He is tense and more determined

than ever to survive. He whispers to himself.

C'mon, c'mon, get it over with, why

are you torturing me like this?

Placing his hand to his side, ASHLY discovers something

in his pocket. He lifts it to his eyes. It is LINDA's

necklace.

...Linda. (He whispers)

The ticking stops. He tilts his head for the slightest

sound. All is silent. From behind, two arms rip through

the door and grab him. ASHLY tears away and falls to

the floor. The necklace is tossed away in the confusion.

CHERYL's hands pull away and she looks through a hole

in the door. From the floor, ASHLY raises his rifle and

fires at her head.

Clutching at her face and screaming horribly, CHERYL

is jolted from the door.

ASHLY places a dresser and chair against the holes in

the door. Behind ASHLY, SCOTT's corpse sits up and opens

its white eyes. It stands and moves toward ASHLY. He

turns with the gun, but SCOTT knocks it out of his hands.

Desperately, ASHLY grabs a table lamp and shatters it

across SCOTT's head, then jams the exposed socket into

his face, shocking him. SCOTT staggers back several

steps, then continues after ASHLY.

Outside, Cheryl is now pounding against the front door.

ASHLY picks up a small table upon which are the Book Of

The Dead, and the professors journal. He throws it at

SCOTT. This does not affect him, and he advances closer.

The Book Of The Dead lands near the fireplace and edges

of the paper darken from the heat. SCOTT picks up ASHLY

and begins to throttle him as if he were a rag doll. The

front door begins to give under CHERYL's pounding. ASHLY

brings his hands to SCOTT's eyes. With a crash, CHERYL

breaks through the front door and begins to push the

dresser away. Pages from the Book Of The Dead are smolder-

ing now. ASHLY jams his fingers into SCOTT's eyes and

slips from the grip. SCOTT clutches his eye sockets and

his back begins to smolder. ASHLY now sees the book. Its

pages burn at the edge. CHERYL topples the dresser and

enters the room. Her face is partially torn away from

the shot gun blast. ASHLY rushes to throw the book onto

the burning logs, but CHERYL, smoldering also, gives

him a backhand blow across the head, and he is sent

sprawling to the floor. She grabs a fireplace poker with

her crushed fingers and turns back to ASHLY who is crawl-

ing toward the fireplace. When almost in reach of the

book, SCOTT grabs his leg and begins to pull ASHLY back-

ward. CHERYL approaches with smoke pouring from her

clothes and slams ASHLY across the back with her poker.

ASHLY screams. A glitter catches his eye. It is LINDA's

necklace. Grabbing it, he tosses the end with a clasp

toward the book. It slides off the cover. SCOTT pulls

him back once more as ASHLY swings the necklace in a

last desperate attempt. CHERYL raises the poker for the

final blow. The necklace drapes over the book and as

ASHLY is dragged, the clasp hooks the cover and pulls

the book with him. With a yank, he seizes the book and

tosses it upon the blaze.

CHERYL and SCOTT freeze. The Book Of The Dead burns in

a bluish green flame. Smoke pours from SCOTT and CHERYL

as distant demonical screams are heard from the woods.

The fireplace poker slips from CHERYL's hand and sticks

into the wood scarcely an inch from ASHLY's head. The

bodies of SCOTT and CHERYL then begin to cave inward

upon themselves, collapsing to the floor in smoldering

heaps. Finally, nothing is left but the burnt clothing

and a blackish grey ooze on the floor where their bodies

once were.

The old clock begins to tick again, normally. ASHLY slowly

climbs to his feet to stand above the fuming debris. Open-

ing his hand, he looks down at LINDA's necklace. The force

retreats from him, out the door, slowly returning to the

darkness from which it emerged. Gradually, the natural

sounds of the forest swell and trees lose their gloom as

Autumn colors return. The first rays of sunlight gleam

over the woods beyond the cabin. Daybreak has finally

come.

