EXT - COUNTRYSIDE - BROILING HOT DAY

As the film's OPENING CREDIT SEQUENCE plays, complete with its own

SPAGHETTI WESTERN THEME SONG, we see SEVEN shirtless and shoeless

BLACK MALE SLAVES connected together with LEG IRONS, being run,

by TWO: WHITE MALE HILLBILLIES on HORSEBACK.

The location is somewhere in Texas. The Black Men (ROY, BIG SID,

BENJAMIN, DJANGO, PUDGY RALPH, FRANKLYN, and BLUEBERRY) are slaves just

recently purchased at The Greenville Slave Auction in Greenville

Mississippi. The White Hillbillies are two Slave Traders called,

The SPECK BROTHERS (ACE and DICKY).

One of the seven slaves is our hero DJANGO... . he's fourth in the leg

iron line. We may or may not notice a tiny small "r" burned into his

cheek ("r" for runaway), but we can't help but notice his back which

has been SLASHED TO RIBBONS by Bull Whip Beatings.

As the Operatic Opening Theme Song plays, we see a MONTAGE of misery

and pain, as Django and the Other Men are walked through blistering

sun, pounding rain, and moved along by the end of a whip. Bare feet

step on hard rock, and slosh through mud puddles. Leg Irons take the

skin off ankles.

AS The CREDITS play, DJANGO has a SPAGHETTI WESTERN FLASHBACK.

Now Spaghetti Western Flashbacks are never pretty, it's usually the

time in the film when the lead character thinks back to the most

painful memory inflicted on him or his loved ones from evil characters

from his past. In this instance we see Django in a SLAVE PEN at the

Greenville Auction.

Amongst many other shoulders and heads, sees through the bars of the

cell door, his wife BROOMHILDA being led to the auction block.

He fights his way to the door, and far off and obscure in the distance,

he can see Broomhilda up on the auction block, and in the distance he

hears the Auctioneer yell; "Sold." Then she's taken away to whereabouts

unknown, never to be seen again.

As the sun continues to beat down on Django's head, he remembers;

DJANGO in the SLAVE PEN

with what seems like a one hundred and fifty Slaves in a cell designed

for forty.

WHITE MEN yank him out. of the cell, shirtless, shoeless, and lead him

down a hallway, into a giant round pen, an audience viewing area

circles the round pen floor on three different stories of the

structure.

The ground floor is covered by the BIG MONEY BUYERS who stand in front

of the auction block.

is moved into a line of SLAVES (The Black Men), and their MASTERS

(their White Owners), and their SELLERS (the White Man actually doing

the sales pitch on the auction block), as they wait for their turn on

the block.

A SLAVE (ROBBIE), stand on the auction block in view of the room full

of Buyers, The SELLER sells, and the OWNERS stand off to the side.

takes in the environment around him. Django has never cared for white

folks, but these white folks are in particularly ugly.

It's DJANGO's turn ON THE AUCTION BLOCK

as the THEME SONG wails its tragic crescendo, Django is brought up on

the auction block. He.looks down at all the WHITE PEOPLE who want to

buy Niggers, who look up to him.

His heart fills with poison.

BACK TO DJANGO

walking in Leg Irons with his six Other Companions, walking across the

blistering Texas panhandle... .remembering.. .thinking. - .hating.

THE OPENING CREDIT SEQUENCE

end.

/--" EXT - WOODS -- NIGHT

It's night time and The Speck Brothers, astride HORSES, keep pushing

their black skinned cargo forward.

It's a very pitch black night, with only a few stars in the.sky to

create a little top light. It's so dark, the Slavers use the creek.bed

to keep from getting lost. Both Speck Brothers carry a lantern up on

their horse, as. does Roy, the Slave in lead position on the chain gang.

It's also a bitterly cold night, with the breath of the seven slaves,

two slavers, and two horses creating clouds in the air. In fact the

seven chained together Slaves, with the lead one holding a lantern, and

all of them chugging out smoky breath, and. slightly moving in unison,

resemble a human locomotive.

The Slaves shiver from the cold on their shirtless backs, both Speck

Brothers wear rawhide winter coats with white fur linings, and white

fur collars.

WHEN...

.A SOUND and a SMALL LIGHT appears ahead of them on the road. This

makes the Slave Traders stop their human live stock, and ready their

rifles for possible trouble.

A BLACK HORSE

carrying a dressed in grey Rider, CLIP-CLOPS from the background to the

foreground, illuminated by a glowing lantern that the Rider carries.

appears to be a tenderfoot, due to his style of dress. A long grey

winter'coat, over a grey three piece business suit, and a grey bowler

hat on his head.

Who's that stumblin around in the dark?

State your business, or prepare to get

winged!

Calm yourselves gentlemen, I mean you no

harm. I'm simply a fellow weary traveler.

The Rider dressed in business grey pulls his horse to a stop in front

of the two Slavers, and their Slaves, lifting the lantern up to his

face. He speaks with a slight German accent.

(to the Slavers)

Good cold evening gentlemen.

(to the shivering Slaves)

Good evening-I'm looking for a pair of

slave traders that go by the'name of

The Speck Brothers. Might that be you?

Who wants to. know?

I do. I'm Dr. King Schultz, and this

is my horse, Fritz.

Fritz, does a little bow with his head, a neat trick the doctor taught

him.

You a doctor?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Affirmative.

What kinda doctor?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Dentist. Are you The Speck Brothers, and did you

purchase those men at The Greenville.Slave Auction?

So what?

Dr.SCHULTZ

So, I wish to parley with you.

Speak English!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh, I'm sorry. Please forgive me, it is a

second language. Amongst your inventory,

I've been led to believe, is a specimen

I'm keen to acquire.

(to the slaves)

Hello you poor devils. Is there one among

you, who was formerly a resident of

The Carrucan Plantation?

Since Roy in lead position is the one holding the lantern, the second

half of the slave centipede falls off into darkness. In the darkness a

VOICE rings out;

DJANGO'S VOICE (OS)

I'm from The Carrucan Plantation.

Dr.Schultz moves Fritz forward towards the darkness, raises his

lantern, illuminating our hero Django.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Splendid! And what's your name young, man?

Django.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Wunderbar! You're exactly the one I'm looking

for. So tell me Django - by the way that's a

amazing name - during your time at the

Carrucan Plantation, did you come to know

three overseers by the name of The Brittle

Brothers?

Django nods his head, yes.

Dr.Schultz is delighted.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Big John, Ellis, and little brother Raj?

Dem da Brittle Brothers.

Dr.SCHULTZ

So Django, do you think you could recognize -

i12. The Speck Brothers have been watching this tenderfoot engage their

Slave in polite conversation.. .with a touch of disbelief.

Hey, stop talkin' to him like that!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Like what?

Like that!

Dr.SCHULTZ

My good man, I'm simply trying to ascertain

Speak English, goddamit!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Everybody calm down! I'm simply a customer

trying to conduct a transaction.

I don't care, no sale. Now off wit ya!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Don't be ridiculous, of course they're for

sale.

Ace raises his rifle towards the German.

Move it!

Ace cocks back the rifle hammer.

Dr.SCHULTZ

My good man, did you simply get carried away

with your dramatic gesture, or are you

pointing that weapon at me with lethal

intention...?

Last chance, fancy pants

Dr.SCHULTZ

- Very well -

darkness.

The next FLASH OF LIGHT we see is the good doctors PISTOL out of his

holster, and FIRING point blank into Ace Specks face...

.BLOWING the dumber dumb brother off his horse, dead in the dirt.

Before Dicky can maneuver either his rifle or his horse in the Germans

direction...

BAM...

Dr.SCHULTZ SHOOTS his HORSE in the head...

.The Steed goes down taking Dicky with him...

When the dead weight horse lands on Dicky's slightly twisted leg, we

hear TWO DISTINCT CRACKING SOUNDS.:..

Dicky lets out a bitch like scream.

The Slaves watch all this. They've never seen a white man kill another

white man before.

Dicky is pinned down under his ole paint.

Django watches in the dark, the German climb down off his horse,

pick up Ace's discarded lantern, and walk over to the remaining Speck.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Sorry about putting a bullet in your beast.

But I didn't want you to do anything rash

before you had a moment to come to your senses.

Dr.Sch.ultz LIGHTS the lantern, illuminating himself, as he stands over

Dicky's body.

You goddamn son of a bitch, you killed Ace!

Dr.SCHULTZ.

I only shot your brother, once he threatened

to shoot me. And I do believe I have ...

.one, two, three, four, five, six,

seven witnesses who can attest to that fact.

My damn legs busted!

Dr.SCHULTZ

No doubt. Now, if you can keep your

caterwauling down to a minimum, I'd like

to finish my line of inquiry with young Django.

As I was saying, if you were to see

the Brittle Brothers again, would you

recognize them?

Yes.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Now I'm sure. to you, all unshaven white men

look alike. So Django, in a crowd of

unshaven white men, can you honestly

and positively point out The Brittle Brothers?

DJANGO SPAGHETTI WESTERN FLASHBACK

We're in his little shack at the Carrucan Plantation. It's PISSING RAIN

outside. Django is making love to his wife Broomhilda, when she stops

letting out a shout. The three overseers known as THE BRITTLE BROTHERS

are outside peeking in through the window. They BURST in through the

front door. Soaked to the bone, they rodeo bull their way into the

shack, and make the two slaves continue fucking for their amusement.

As Django and Broomhilda are forced to copulate, they run their wet

white hands down her chocolate leg.. .they fondle his ass.. .they squeeze

her tit. . .they bring a belt across Django's backside to make him fuck

faster. . .then they yank him off, as BIG JOHN climbs on top of

Broomhilda..the other Brittle brothers whip Django with their belts,

and make him sit in the corner, while they finish with his wife.

BACK TO DJANGO

I can point 'em out.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Sold American! So Mr.Speck, how much for

Django?

I'm gonna lose this leg!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes, unless you find a talented physician

very quickly, I'm afraid that will be the.

end result. But back to business, how much

do you want for Django?

You go to hell!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Don't be silly. How much for Django?

800 dollars!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh come now, I may not have the experience in

the slave trade that you and your family does,

but neither was I born yesterday.

The. good doctor removes a pamphlet from his grey suit coat pocket.

Dr.SCHULTZ

In this most helpful pamphlet that I picked

up at The Greenville Slave Auction, it says

that the going rate for African flesh'

- in particularly a field nigger -_is sixty

to eighty dollars. Now handsome no doubt as

Django is, technically, he is a field. nigger.

Which according to"this pamphlet here - and

why would they lie - puts his price at

eighty dollars. So in light of that, how

bout a hundred and twenty five dollars for

young Django here.

Dr.Schultz removes his long billfold from his pocket, and takes out a

one hundred dollar bill, two tens and a fiver.

Dr.SCHULTZ

And since your late brother. won't be using

it anymore, I'd like to purchase his nag.

He removes a twenty dollar gold piece from his. pocket, and tosses it on

Dicky's body. He bends down and, puts the paper money-.in the saddle bags

on Dicky's dead horse. With.his hands in there, he roots around and

finds the keys to-the leg irons. He unlocks Django's leg irons.

Django is free.

Dr.SCHULTZ

There you go Django,. Give your ankles a good

rubbing, then get up on that horse.

Also, if I was you, I'd take that winter

coat the dear departed Speck left behind.

Django removes the coat from the dead slaver. Puts on the warm jacket

over his bare back, and climbs up on Ace Specks horse.

Dr.Schultz turns to Dicky on the ground.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Mr.Speck, I am afraid I will require a

bill of sale. Do you have one?

Dicky just curses him.

He says, removing a notebook from his pocket;

Dr.SCHULTZ

I thought not. No worries, I come prepared.

(as he writes)

This will serve nicely as a bill of sale.

(he stops, then

says to Django)

Django is spelled with a silent "D",

is it not?

Huh?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Why not..

He writes it in his book with a silent "D", then stops to admire the

way it looks.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes, that does add a little character.

The German dentist lowers himself by the Speck brother pinned down

under his horse, and hands him the notebook and pen.

Dr.SCHULTZ

If you'd be so kind Speck, as to make your

mark here.

The. Hillbilly spits in the German gentleman's face. The good doctor

wipes his face with a handkerchief. Then takes out a pocket knife.

And whispers something that can't be heard in the slavers ear.

He signs the bill of sale.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Mr.Speck, I would like to say it was a

pleasure doing business with you, but your

customer service leaves a lot to be desired.

The good doctor climbs back up on Fritz, and looks to the six Slaves, in

leg irons.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Now as to you poor devils.

He tosses to Pudgy Ralph the keys to the shackles.

Dr.SCHULTZ

So as I.see it, when it comes to the subject

of what to do next, you gentlemen have two

choices. One, once I'm gone, you lift that

beast off the remaining Speck, then carry him

to the nearest town. Which would be at least

thirty-seven miles back the way you came.

Or ...

.Two, you unshackle yourselves, take that

rifle over there. . .put a bullet in his head,

bury the two of them deep, and make your way

to a more enlightened area of the country.

The choice is yours.

He's just about ready to ride off, when the good doctor adds;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh, and on the off chance that there's

any astronomy aficionados amongst you,

the North Star is THAT ONE. Tata.

He looks to Django, who doesn't know how to start his horse.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Just give him a little kick.

Django does, and the horse responds by moving.

Dr.SCHULTZ

See, it's not so difficult.

EXT - MORNING TEXAS LANDSCAPE - SUNRISE

The DAWN BREAKS on a western landscape. The two men ride their horses

silently, horse hooves CLIP-CLOPPING among the rocks. Django wears

Specks winter coat, with one of Dr.Schultz's white button down dress

shirts underneath it. As they ride through the picturesque scene...

Dr.Schultz breaks the silence.

Dr.SCHULTZ

So, Django, what do you intend to name him?

Who?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Your horse?

What horse?

Dr.SCHULTZ'

The horse you're riding.

This ain't my horse.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes it is.

No it ain't, it's your horse. I'm just riding

it.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well, technically, yes - Wait a minute -

technically not. If it's my horse, I can

give it to you, and as of now, I'm doing such.

Django, you're now the proud owner of a horse,

congratulations.

I can't feed no horse. I can't put no horse

up in no stable.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Don't worry about all that!

They ride a bit longer in silence.. .the good doctor composes himself...

then says with a smile;

Dr.SCHULTZ

So... . now that that's settled... . what do you

intend to name it? Half the fun of having

a horse is choosing his name. For instance

my steed is named Fritz. He's stubborn,

ornery, and prone to a bad disposition, but I

couldn't do without him.

(he pats Fritz's neck)

Anyway, the name of one's steed, isn't

something one does lightly. So once you've

thought about it for awhile -

- Tony.

Dr.SCHULTZ

- Tony what?

- I dunno, Tony the horse.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh, you mean you want to name your horse

Tony?

Yeah. That's what you jus' asked me, right?

Dr.SCHULTZ

When you're right you're right, indeed I did.

Why Tony?

I gotta tell ya? You didn't tell me I gotta

tell ya.

As they continue to converse, they start heading downhill toward a

western town. They pass by a sign that says; "WELCOME TO DAUGHTREY,

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well I'm naturally curious, of course, but

there's no reason you MUST tell me. In fact

an air of mystery adds a dash of panache to

any steed. And I do believe Tony wears it

well. Good job Django, well done.

EXT - THE WESTERN TOWN OF DAUGHTREY - MORNING

As the citizens of Daughtrey wake up, Django and Dr.Schultz ride Fritz

and Tony through the main street of town..Daughtrey looks like a

million western towns we've seen before in movies. But to the

TOWNSPEOPLE of Daughtrey, Django and the German don't look like a

million other visitors.

Dr.SCHULTZ

What's everybody staring at?

They never seen a nigger on a horse before.

Dr.SCHULTZ

What's this bizarre obsession they have

with. you not riding horses?

You askin' me?

Dr.Schultz stops Fritz in front of a saloon, and dismounts. Django has

a little trouble both stopping Tony and getting off him, but it gets

done. Dr.Schultz keeps bombarding The Slave with questions.

Dr.SCHULTZ

So what other archaic rituals are you people

verboten to take part in?

As per usual with this white man, Django thinks; "What"?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'm just trying to get a clear idea on what

you can do, and what you can't do, and if

you can't do it, why can't you do it?

Like for instance, what if we were to walk

in this saloon here, sit down at a table,

order a drink, and drink it?

Would the authorities frown on that?

Hell yeah, they gonna frown.

Dr.SCHULTZ

What part would they find the most offensive?

All of it. I can't be walkin' in no saloon.

I can't be sittin' my ass on no chair,

at no table. I can't be drinkin' no drink.

And I definitely can't be sharin' no drink,

with no white man, in public.

Dr.SCHULTZ

So if you and I did those things, that would

be considered enough of a infraction to make

the saloon keeper go get the sheriff?

You bet your sweet ass they get the sheriff.

The good doctor extends his hand towards the saloon entrance.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well in that case Django, after you.

Whoa - I ain't funnin, I can't go in there.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Django you're going to have to learn to trust

me, and as the man said; "There's no time

like the,present."

He takes Django by the arm and leads him into the entryway of the

establishment.

INT - SALOON - MORNING

The nervous black slave and the confident German'dentist walk into the

saloon.

The SALOON KEEPER (PETE) is high up on a chair placed high up on a

table, to change a candle in the saloons chandelier. His back is turned

away from the two patrons.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Good morning inn keeper, two beers for two

weary travelers.

It',s still pretty early, we won't be open

for about a hour. But by then we'll be

servin' breakfast -

He turns around and sees them.

Whoa! What the hell you think you doin' boy,

get that nigger outta here.

EXT - SALOON - MORNING

It's about five minutes later, and the Saloon Keeper comes running out

of the bar to get the Sheriff.

When Dr.Schultz, sitting at a table with the young Django, calls;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Inn keeper! Remember, get the sheriff, not

the marshall. This wouldn't be the marshalls

jurisdiction.'This is just a infraction,

on what I assume is a simple county ordinance,

and that would fall under the domain of the

Sheriff.

The Saloon Keeper runs away.

The two men sit by themselves in the empty saloon.

Dr.SCHULTZ

It looks like we must act as our own bartender.

The German stands up, and walks-behind the bar, and pours two beer's

from the tap into mugs. Django remains seated, and after a beat, asks;

What kinda dentist are you?

This makes the doctor laugh, as he pours the beer's.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I haven't practiced dentistry in five years -

Not to say once I know you better, I wouldn't

like to get a look at that mouth - I'm sure

it's a disaster - But these days I practice

a new profession ... . Bounty Hunter.

This gets no reaction from Django.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Do you know what a Bounty Hunter is?

The Black Man shakes his head, no.

As the good doctor, walks back to the table carrying the mugs of beer,

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well the way the slave trade deals in

human lives for cash, a bounty hunter,

deals in corpses.

Dr.SCHULTZ (CONT'D)

The state places a bounty on a man's head.

I track that man, I find that man, I kill

that man. After I've killed him, I transport

that man's corpse back to the authorities -

and sometimes that's easier said then done.

I show that corpse to the authorities -

proving, yes indeed, I have truly killed him

- At which point, the authorities pay me

the bounty.

(lifting his beer)

Cheers.

The two men touch glasses, and take a drink.

What's a bounty?

Dr.SCHULTZ

It's like a reward.

You kill people and they give you a reward?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Certain people, yes.

White people?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Mostly. A few Mexicans. Couple Chinamen.

Bad people?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Badder they are, bigger the reward.

Which brings me to you, and I must admit

I'm at a bit of a quandary when it comes

to you. On one hand, I despise slavery.

On the other hand, I need your help,

and if you're not in a position to refuse,

all the better. So for the time being,

I'm going to make this slave malarkey

work to my benefit.

Still... . having said that, .I feel guilty.

So... I'd like the two of us to enter into

an agreement. I'm looking for The Brittle Brothers,

however in this endeavor I'm at a slight

disadvantage, in so far as, I don't know

what they look like. But you do... .dont'cha?

i12. DJANGO SPAGHETTI WESTERN FLASHBACK

Django, back at The Carrucan Plantation, held down by Roger and Ellis

Brittle, as Big John BURNS the "r" into his cheek with a BRANDING IRON.

BACK TO DJANGO

I know what they look like, all right.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Good. So, here's my agreement. You travel

with me till we find them -

- Where we goin'?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I hear at least two of them are overseeing

up in Gatlinburg, but I don't know where.

That means we visit every plantation in

Gatlinburg till we find them. And when we

find them, you point them out, and I kill

them. You do that, I agree to give you

your freedom... . twenty-five dollars per

Brittle brother - that's seventy-five

dollars... . your horse, Tony even though

I've already gave him to you -- but once the

final Brittle brother lies dead in the

dust, I'll buy you a new saddle, and a

new suit of clothes, handsome cowboy hat

included.

Dr.Schultz's eyes go to the saloon window.

Dr.SCHULTZ

And as if on cue... . here comes the sheriff.

EXT - SALOON - MORNING

We see the sheriff, BILL SHARP, walk towards the saloon cradling a

Winchester. Some TOWNSPEOPLE (like the Saloon Keeper) stand around to

watch. A. YOUNG BOY leads a herd of BABY GOATS through town.

Sheriff Sharp stands in the middle of the street.

Okay boys, fun's over, come on out.

Both the doctor and Django stand up and walk to the front porch.

As they do, The Sheriff says;

Now why y'all wanna come into my town,

start trouble, and scare all these nice

people? You ain't got nothin' better to

do, then to come into Bill Sharps town

and show your ass -

From his top step on the porch, Dr. King Schultz extends his hand

toward the sheriff, as if to shake it... :.

.THEN...

A SMALL DERRINGER - POPS into Schultz's hand from a metal sliding

apparatus concealed under his jacket sleeve. Once in hand, the dentist

FIRES one tiny bullet into the belly of Bill Sharp.

The tiny gun makes a tiny POP sound.

The shocked Bill Sharp lets out a ugly groan, and doubles over in the

dirt.

The TOWNSPEOPLE are startled.

As is Django.

As Schultz walks down the porch steps, to the fallen sheriff, reloading

his tiny pop shooter, a PEDESTRIAN yells out;

What did you jus' do to our sheriff?

Dr.Schultz answers him by putting another tiny bullet in the law man's

skull, killing him dead.

In the background, ONE WOMAN faints. The Boy and his Goats scatter.

Dr.Schultz looks over at the Saloon Keeper, across the street.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Now you can go get the marshall.

EXT - DAUGHTREY MAIN STREET - DAY

U.S.MARSHALL GILL TATUM snaps the MENFOLK OF Daughtrey to attention.

Move that buckboard over there long ways

across the street from the saloon. And I

want six men and six Winchesters behind it.

And I want two men with two rifles on this

roof, and two men with two rifles on that

roof, with all barrels pointed at that

front door. And somebody git poor Bill

outta the goddamn street.

Cowboys with rifles climb up stairs to take position on the roof of the

building across the street from the saloon.

The Marshall directs the buckboard being moved into place.

The last SNIPER on the rooftop takes his position.

WHEN...

COMING FROM THE SALOON... . PIANO MUSIC ...

INT - SALOON - DAY

Dr.Schultz sits behind the piano playing a catchy little saloon number.

He seems skilled enough to be a professional western saloon piano

player. A terrified Django, who's sure his new master is a lunatic

who's going to get them both killed, peeks out the closed curtains

on the window.

Dr.Schultz's suit coat sits draped over a chair. All of his weapons,

including his metal sliding rail Derringer contraption, lie on a table.

He plays piano in his button down dress shirt and gray suit vest.

Dr.SCHULTZ

What are they doing?

I think they wonderin' why you playin'

the piana'.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Good.

But what are they doing?

A buncha white folks brought a buckboard

around out front, now they hidin' behind it

with guns. And a buncha other white folks

are up on the roof, with rifles pointed

down here.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Damn, they got that organized fast. Is the

marshall out there?

If the one I think is the.marshall is the

marshall, he's out there.

Dr.SCHULTZ

What makes you think he's the marshall?

Cause he's the one ready to say somethin'.

You in the saloon!

Dr.Schultz stops playing the piano.

We got eleven Winchesters on every way

outta that buildin'! You got once chance

git outta this alive! You and your nigger

come out right now with your hands over

your head, and I mean, right now!

Dr.SCHULTZ

First things first! Is this the marshall

I have the pleasure of addressing?

Yes it is, this is U.S. Marshall Gill Tatum.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Wunderbar! So marshall, I have relieved

myself of all weapons, and just as you

have instructed, I'm ready to step outside

with my hands raised above my head.

I trust as a representative of the

criminal justice system of The United

States of America, I shant be shot down

in the street, by either you or your deputies,

before I've had my day in court.

You mean like you did our sheriff? Shot

'em down like a dog in the street!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes, that's exactly what I mean! Do I

have your word as a lawman not to shoot

me down like a dog in the street?

Well, as much as we'd all enjoy seein'

somethin' like that, ain't nobody gonna

cheat the hangman in my town!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Fair enough marshall, here we.come.!

Dr.SCHULTZ

They're a little tense out there. So don't

make any quick movements, and let me do

the talking.

Django looks at him like, "as if..."

EXT - SALOON/MAIN STREET - DAY

A lot of guns are trained on the front door of the saloon.

Outside of range, the WHOLE TOWN watches the stand off.

The saloon doors open, and Dr.Schultz and Django, hands raised, step

outside.

You unarmed?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes indeed we are. Marshall Tatum, may I

address you, your deputies, and apparently

the entire town of Daughtrey, as to the

incident that just occurred?

Go on!

Dr.SCHULTZ

My name is Dr.King Schultz. And like

yourself, marshall, I am a servant of the

court. The man lying dead in the dirt,

who the good people of Daughtrey saw fit

to elect as their sheriff, who went by

the name of Bill Sharp, is actually a

wanted outlaw by the name of Willard Peck,

with a price on his head of two hundred

dollars. That's two hundred dollars, dead

or alive.

The hell you say!

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'.m aware this is probably disconcerting

news. But I'm willing to wager this man

was elected sheriff sometime in the last

two years. I know this because. three years

ago he was rustling cattle from,

The B.C. Corrigan Cattle Company of

Lubbock Texas.

Dr.SCHULTZ (CONT'D)

In my possession. is a warrant made out by

circuit court Judge Henry Allen Laudermilk

of Austin Texas. You are encouraged to wire him.

He will back up who I am, and who your

dear departed sheriff was.

The Menfolk of the town with rifles, begin trading looks. Then

Dr.Schultz delivers the coup de grace.

Dr.SCHULTZ

In other words marshall, you owe me

two hundred dollars.

EXT - TENNESSEE COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Django and Dr.Schultz, who by now have ridden quite a few miles

together, ride their horses in the Tennessee countryside, on the way to

Gatlinburg. Dr.Schultz is dressed in one of his nearly identical grey

business suits, and Django is still dressed in his slave pants,

Schultz's button down dress shirt, and Ace Speck's winter coat.

Somewhere along the way a pair of shoes have appeared on'his feet.

Dr.SCHULTZ

One needs a plan, son. These are brutal

times. A man who survives, is a man with

a plan. A man who thrives, is a man with

a good plan. So, having said that, what's

your plan, young Django?

What'cha mean?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well, after this Brittle business is behind

us, you'll be a free man, with a horse, and

seventy five dollars in your back pocket.

What's your plan after that?

Find my wife, and buy her freedom.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Django, I had no idea you were a married man.

Do most slaves take the institution of

matrimony seriously?

Huh?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Do slaves believe in marriage'?

Me and my wife do.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Where is she now?

I dunno. They put us in different boxcars,

and sent U.S to The Greenville Slave Auction.

She got sold two days 'fore me.

But I don't know who to.

Dr.Schultz takes out a long stick of beef jerky.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Care for some jerky?

Sure.

Dr.Schultz rips him off a piece. Django chews on it. As he chews,

Dr.SCHULTZ

So your plan is to trackdowri your wife, and

purchase her.freedom? Only you don't know

where she is?

A chewing Django nods his head, yes.

Dr.Schultz, takes a big bite of jerky, chews for a "moment contemplating

the dilemma, then pronounces;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well that shouldn't be all that difficult.

So how long ago did all this happen?

A few months ago.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Three or four?

Three.

Dr.SCHULTZ

So shecamefrom the Carrucan Plantation,

and shewassold at The Greenville Slave

Auctiontosome :unknown customer three

monthsago?

Django nods his head, yes.

Dr.SCHULTZ

The bad part about slavery being a business,

is it's immoral. The good part about it being

a business is, they keep records. Somewhere

in Greenville there's a book with your wife's

name in it, and the name of the customer who

bought her, and more then likely their address.

But then Schultz seems to get second thoughts.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Still, seventy-five dollars in your back

pocket is a pretty nice grub steak, but it's

not going to get you very far in Greenville.

Not to mention a slave auction town in

Mississippi isn't the safest place you could

visit. Free or not.

I'll have my freedom papers.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes you will. But say you show them to some

rascals, and they take them from you and

tear them up?

They could do that?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'm not saying they would, but they could.

They do that I'll kill 'em.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Great! Now you get hung for killin' a white

man. The point being is the place,is just

too dangerous for you.

Well I gotta go, when do I go?

Dr.SCHULTZ

When you get more dangerous.

EXT - CHATTANOOGA - DAY

Muddy and wet big city Chattanooga. We're in the back of a STORE that.

sells SERVANT/HOUSE NIGGER UNIFORMS. Django comes bursting out of the

stores back door. He's very distressed. One glance at the outfit he's

wearing explains the distress.

is dressed in a powder blue satin Little Lord Fauntleroy outfit, that

wouldn't be out of place in the court of Marie Antoinette at

Versailles.

Dr.Schultz comes trailing after him.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Django, you have to, it's part of "The Act".

You're playing a character. Your character

is The Valet. This is what The Valet wears.

Remember what I told you. During the act,

you can never break character.

EXT - BENNETT MANOR- DAY

We see Dr. Schultz, riding slightly in front of Django, dressed in his

blue satin Little Lord Fauntleroy outfit, as they enter the property of

BENNETT MANOR, a plantation in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. Django leads a

riderless horse, behind him and Tony.

As the two men ride their horses up the road that leads to the front

steps of Bennett Manor, alongside the cotton fields, all the SLAVES

stop picking cotton, and straighten their bent backs up to stare in

wonder at this sight.

The patriarch of Bennett Manor, SPENCER "BIG DADDY" BENNETT, dressed in

a fancy leisure suit of the day, emerges from the double doors of the

mansion, and stands on the top steps, hands on hips, watching the white

man and black man move from the background to the foreground.

While there are plenty BLACK MALES out in the cotton fields, the

majority of the slave population of Bennett Manor is pretty.BLACK

FEMALES, fourteen to twenty-four, referred to as, "PONY'S".

The biggest money making crop of this farm, after cotton.

As Dr.Schultz and fancy pants Django, bring Fritz and Tony to a stop

in front of Bennett Manor, they've drawn quite a crowd of SLAVES,

BENNETT FAMILY MEMBERS, and WHITE WORKERS (OVERSEER'S).

Spencer Bennett keeps on the top step so he won't be forced to look up

at the darkee on the horse.

It's against the law for niggers to ride

horses in this territory.

Dr.SCHULTZ

This is my valet, and my valet doesn't walk.

I said niggers -

Z .ate`

Dr.SCHULTZ

His name is Django, he's a free man, and

he can ride what he pleases.

Not on my.property, around my niggers

he can't.

Dr.SCHULTZ

My good sir, perhaps we got off on the

wrong boot. Allow me to unring this bell.

My name is Dr.King Schultz, this is my

valet, Django, and these are our horses,

Fritz, and Tony.

Fritz, does his head bow.

This makes the pretty PONY'S surrounding Bennett, giggle.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Mr. Bennett, I've been lead to believe you

are a gentleman, and a business man.

And it is in these capacities that we've

ridden from Texas to Tennessee to talk

with you now.

State your business.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I wish to purchase one of your

nigger gals.

You and your Jimmie rode from Texas to

Tennessee, to buy one of my nigger gals,

no appointment, no nuttin'?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'm afraid so.

Well what if I say, I don't like you, or

your fancy pants. nigger, and I wouldn't

sell you a tinkers damn - what'cha gotta

say about that?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Mr. Bennett, if you are the business man,

I've been led to believe you to be,

I have five thousand things I might say,

that could change your mind.

i This gets everybody's attention, not least of all Spencer Bennett.

Spencer laughs.

C'mon inside, get yourself something' cool

to drink.

The incognito bounty hunter, dismounts his steed, as does Django.

Then the good doctor walks up the steps to Bennett Manor.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Maybe while we discuss business, you

could provide one of your loveliest black

creatures to escort Django here around

your magnificent grounds.

Absolutely. Betina!

A pretty, fleshy, sweet jelled, twenty-two year old slave gal named

BETINA, snaps to attention.

Yes sir, Big Daddy?

What's your Jimmies name again?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Django.

Betina sugar, take Django around the

grounds. Show 'em all the pretty stuff.

As you please, Big Daddy.

Dr.Schultz lowers his voice, and says to the plantation owner;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Mr. Bennett, I must remind, you, Django is a

free man. He cannot be treated like a slave.

Within the bounds of good taste, he must be

treated as an extension of myself.

Understood., Schultz. Betina?

Yes, sir?

Django isn't a slave. Django is a free

man. Do you understand? You're not to treat

him like any of these other niggers around

here, cause he ain't like any of these

other niggers around here. Ya got it?

Ya want I should treat 'em like white

folks?

No that's not what I said.

Then I don't know what'cha want Big Daddy.

Yes, I can see that.

What's the name of that peckawood boy from

town works with the glass? His mama works

at the lumber yard? He comes by and fixes

the winda's when we have a problem?

The MAMMY OF BENNETT MANOR chimes in;

MAMMY OF BENNETT MANOR

Oh, you mean Jerry.

Yeah, that's the boy's name, Jerry.

You know Jerry, dont'cha sugar?

Yes 'em, Big Daddy.

Well that's it then... just treat 'em

like you would Jerry.

EXT - ANOTHER PART OF BENNETT MANOR - DAY

Away from the big house, Betina gives Django a tour of the grounds.

Her in her slave get up, complete with handkerchief on her head, and

him in his satin baby blue Little Lord Fauntleroy outfit, are quite

the pair. She eyeballs him disapprovingly up and down.

What'cha do for your massa'?

Didn't you hear him tell ya, I ain't no slave.

So you really free?

Yes.

You mean you wanna dress like that?

Django fumes.

EXT - BENNETT MANOR (BACK PORCH) - DAY

Both Spencer Bennett and Dr.Schultz sit on the back porch drinking

lemonade.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I've been'told by those who should know,

the most exquisite African flesh in the

state of Tennessee is bred right here on

your land. And from the look of these

black angels, my sources weren't wrong.

Oh I got my share of, coal blacks, horse

faces, and gummy mouth bitches out in the

field. But the lion share of my lady

niggers are real show pony's.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well that's what I'm looking for, a show

pony for young Django. So the only

question that remains is, do you have a

nigger here worth five thousand dollars?

Dr.Schultz, five thousand dollar nigger,

is practically my middle name.

BACK TO DJANGO AND BETINA

Betina and Django walk by a big tree on the plantation grounds.

The cotton fields and the SLAVES picking it, in the background.

Betina, come over here, I need to ask

you something.

He moves her by the tree for more privacy. Betina thinks this fancy

pants wants to get all lovey-dovey, and she couldn't be less interested.

What'cho want?

I'm lookin' for three white men. Three

brothers. Overseers. Their name is

Brittle. Do you know 'em?

Brittle?

Yes, Brittle. John Brittle. Ellis Brittle.

And Roger Brittle, sometimes called, Little Raj.

I don't know dem.

They could be usin' a different name.

They woulda' come to the plantation in

the last year.

You mean The Shaffer's?

Maybe? Three brother?

Ah-huh.

Are they here?

Ah-huh.

Can you point one of 'em out to me?

Well ones over in that field.

She points to the cotton field, at a OVERSEER on top of a horse, whip

in hand, eyeing the blacks at his mercy.

Django takes hold of a little bag slung over his shoulder opens it, and

takes out a shiny brass SPYGLASS, the type a sea captain might use.

Obviously a prop from Dr.Schultz. He slides it open, places it against

his eye, and points it in the direction of a figure out in the cotton

field landscape.

Astride his nag, the filthy hillbilly, who calls himself SHAFFER, but

who Django knows to be ELLIS BRITTLE, looks on, oblivious to Django's

observation.

DJANGO SPAGHETTI WESTERN FLASHBACK

He remembers Ellis Brittle BURNING a "r" into Broomhilda's cheek with a

BRANDING IRON.

BACK TO DJANGO AND THE SPYGLASS

he lowers the glass.

Is that who you lookin' for?

Yep.

He folds the spyglass back up, and puts it back in his purse.

Where's the other two?

BETINA.

They by the stable, punishin' Little Jody

for breakin' eggs.

They whippin' Little Jody?

She nods her head, yes.

Point me in that direction.

She points to a shed, and keeps pointing right.

You go to that shed, and keep goin' that way.

Which means; "Go to the shed and turn right."

Go git that white man, I came here with.

He slaps her ass, to hurry her up.

Then looks to the shed, and begins crossing the distance between him

and The Brittle Brothers.

A memory from The Carrucan Plantation; The Brittle Brothers giving his

wife Broomhilda, a peelin'.

PEELIN' : A punishment by bullwhip, across the back.

LITTLE RAJ makes a line in the dirt with the heel of his boot.

Making Django stand behind it, as he watches his wife being whipped.

BIG JOHN BRITTLE SLASHES the beauty of Broomhilda's back with his

BULLWHIP.

DJANGO, keeping behind the line, begs Big John for mercy.

Please Big John, she won't do it no more!

She's real sorry!

The WHIP RIPS her back.

Goddamit, Big John!

Whoa nigger, calm down, keep it funny.

Django gets on his knees, and on behalf of Broomhild.a, begs Big John

Brittle with everything he has.

BACK TO DJANGO

crossing the lawn towards The Brittle Brothers, like an express train.

Big John Brittle standing over him, bullwhip in hand, saying to the

BIG JOHN BRITTLE

I like the way you beg, boy.

EXT - STABLE - DAY

Little Raj Brittle, ties LITTLE JODY, a petite slave girl (eighteen)

to a dead tree stump.

BIG JOHN BRITTLE paces, taking a few practice CRACKS with his WHIP.

LITTLE JODY begs The Shaffer Brothers/The Brittle Brothers for mercy.

ROGER goes and sits on a old wagon wheel to watch the whippin'.

BIG JOHN BRITTLE

Now Jody quit your caterwaulin'. You know

yourself it's for your own good. Niggers

are clumsy. You'd break everything in

goddamn sight, you weren't cured. And the

only known cure for nigger clumsiness

is a peelin'.

Little Jody begs to differ.

BACK TO DJANGO

As Django in his powder blue satin suit hurries across the grass to

Little Jody and The Brittle Brothers, he collects eight little friends

who happily run along with the fast walking man. EIGHT LITTLE FRENCH

BULLDOGS who bark, yelp, snort and breath at his heels.. Django pays the

little dogs no nevermind.

BACK TO BIG JOHN BRITTLE

In position to take the skin off of Little Jody's back.

After this we'll see if you break eggs again.

turns the corner to the stable, and stands behind them. They don't see

him. Big John rears back to make the first WHIP LASH...

WHEN ...

.DJANGO'S VOICE, stops him;

John Brittle!

Big John breaks his whip stride, looks. up, and in a discarded full

length broken mirror from the big house, laying abandoned against the

stable wall, he see's DJANGO, dressed in his powder blue satin Little

Lord Flauntleroy outfit, surrounded by his pack of little French

Bulldogs.

LITTLE JODY on her knees, tied to the dead tree stump, looks up see's

the same thing in the mirror.

LITTLE RAJ looks to his left at the sounds of the voice.

BIG JOHN turns toward Django, who he still doesn't recognize.

DJANGO just stares back.

BIG JOHN smile disappears. He recognizes Django.

So does Roger.

Django?

Django crosses toward Big John, raising up his arm like he's going to

shake his hand ...

Remember me?

.Django extends his arm, and Dr.Schultz's Derringer arm

contraption,. POPS the TINY GUN into his hand, and he FIRES a tiny

bullet smack dab into BIG JOHN'S MERCILESS HEART.

BIG JOHN FACE

goes into shock... .he falls to his knees...he looks up, clutching his

heart, at Django.

I like the way you die, boy.

Big John hears it...then tips over dead.

LITTLE JODY can't believe what she's just seen.

FOUR OTHER SLAVES who just happen to be walking in the background, see

it.

LITTLE RAJ is stunned ... . then comes to his senses, fumbling for the

gun he wears on his hip, but since he's no gunman, in his haste, he

gets it out of his holster, but drops it on the ground.

It goes off... BANG.

SHOOTING himself in the foot, he HOPS UP AND DOWN in pain.

The Bulldogs scatter at the sound. of the BANG.

DJANGO picks Big John's WHIP off the ground., and begins WHIPPING

LITTLE RAJ across the face and chest.

MORE SLAVES gather.

DJANGO WHIPS HIM TO THE GROUND

whips him on the ground, then throws the whip to the ground, picks

Roger's pistol off the ground, and empties it (FIVE SHOTS) into Roger.

To say the slaves are flabbergasted, is a understatement.

Dr.Schultz rides his horse up quickly, rifle in his hand. He sees

Django, and the two dead bodies.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Who are they?

That's John Brittle, and that's his

little brother Raj.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Where's Ellis?

He's the one hightailin' it across that

field right now.

Ellis Brittle riding his horse full out through the cotton field trying

to make an escape.

goes to his eye, he follows the rider with his rifle barrel.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Are you sure that's him?

Ellis gets further away...

Yes!

Dr.SCHULTZ

Are you positive?

Ellis gets further away...

I dunno.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You don't know if you're positive?

Ellis gets further away...

I don't know what, positive,'means.

Dr.SCHULTZ

It means you're sure.

Yes.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes, what?

Yes I'm sure that's Ellis Brittle.

BAM!

The German picks the middle Brittle brother off his horse.

RED BLOOD splashes on WHITE COTTON.

The German and Django have the entire plantation's attention.

Spencer Bennett (with his Winchester), his SONS and his OVERSEERS,

and some HOUSE NIGGERS come around like a angry mob.

The German tosses his rifle in the dirt, and raises his hands.

Django does the same with his pistol.

Dr.Schultz addresses the ANGRY MOB.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Everybody calm down, we mean no one else any harm!

Just who the hell are you two jokers?

Dri12. SCHULTZ

I am Dr.King Schultz, a legal representative

of the criminal justice system of the

United States of America. The man to my

left is Django Freeman, he's my. deputy.

In my pocket is a warrant signed by circuit

court judge Henry Allen Laudermilk of Austin

Texas, for the arrest and capture, dead or

alive, of John Brittle, Ellis Brittle, and

Roger Brittle --

- They were goin by the name, Shaffer.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You know them by the name, Shaffer.

But the butchers real names'were Brittle.

These are wanted men. The law wants them

for murder. I reiterate, this warrant

states dead or alive. When Django and myself

executed these men on sight, we were operating

within our legal. boundaries. Now I realize

passions are high. But I must warn you,

the penalty for taking deadly force

against a officer of the court in the

performance of his duty is, you will be

hung by the neck until you are dead.

This does put a momentary pause in the lynch mob's blood lust.

After his dramatic pause for effect...

.Dr.Schultz says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

May I please remove the warrant from my

pocket so you may examine it?

Resting his Winchester over his shoulder, Bennett reaches for the

paper.

Gimmie.

Dr.Schultz removes the warrant from his jacket pocket, and hands it to

the plantation owner. Bennett reads it silently to himself, resigned to

what it says.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Satisfied.

Bennett eyes go from the warrant to the German.

Dr.SCHULTZ

May I have that back?

,- Bennett hands Schultz back the piece of paper.

Dr.SCHULTZ

We good?

Get off my land.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Post haste.

Load up the bodies as quickly as

you can, and let's get out of

here.

All three dead Brittle Brothers lie over the back of the extra horse

the bounty hunters brought with them.

Both Bounty Hunters are back in their saddles ready to leave.

With all the eyes of the plantation on them, the white and black man

start to ride out, when Spencer "Big Daddy" Bennett, steps in their way

for one final threat.

Ain't nobody gonna touch you and your Jimmie

while you on my property. But for lettin' a

nigger kill a white man, and especially for

letting a nigger kill a white man in a

audience of niggers, y'all ain't gonna make

it out of the county alive. Mark my words

Schultz, by tomorrow morning your niggers

gonna be stripped and clipped and hangin'

from my motherfuckin' gate.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'm fully aware Bennett, that you and your

regulator playmates aren't shy about

killing for what you believe in. But mark

my words Big Daddy, if you make a move

towards Django or myself, you better be

prepared to die for it.

The two men ride off.

The Black and White Audience watch them go.

EXT -- A TENNESSEE LAKE - NIGHT

INSERT: Dr.Schultz's SADDLE BAG, the doctor's hands remove THREE STICKS

/!. OF DYNAMITE from it.

INSERT: The doctor's HANDS bind the Three Sticks of Dynamite together.

INSERT: The Three Sticks are WRAPPED UP in a BRIGHT YELLOW BANDANA.

INSERT: The Yellow Dynamite Sticks, are buried in dirt about half way,

with the yellow part protruding from out of the ground.

CUT TO.

CU SPENCER BENNETT

lying on his belly in the grass.

That's them sonsabitches.

We see the camp by the lake that Dr.Schultz and Django have set up.

Both wrapped up in bedrolls. The dead bodies of the Brittle Brothers

lie by them in a pile. A campfire slowly dims.

We Cut Back to Spencer Bennett lying on his belly with SIX OTHER RIFLE

CARING MEN observing the camp, from over a grade.

The Men sneak back down the hill the way they came...

Where about TWENTY-FOUR REGULATORS are waiting for them ON HORSEBACK,

all of the riders heads are covered by FLOUR SACKS with eyes and mouth

holes cut out. Some carry TORCHES, all carry RIFLES or SHOTGUNS.

Spencer mounts his horse. "Big Daddy" issues orders astride his

steed..

Now unless they start shootin' first,

nobody shoot 'em. That's way too simple

for these jokers. We're gonna whip that

nigger lover to death. And I'm gonna

personally, strip and clip that garboon

myself.

Having said his blood thirsty words, he puts the flour sack over his

head. He tussles with the sack for a bit, then from inside the sack;

Damn, I can't see fuckin' shit outta

this thing.

He sticks his fingers in the.eye holes, and rips, trying to make the

holes bigger, he only succeeds in making-visibility more obscured.

We ready, or what?

Hold on I'm fuckin' with my eye holes.

Shit ...I just made it worse.

He rips. it off his head in frustration.

I can't see shit either.

Who made this goddamn shit?

0. B.

Willards wife.

Well make you own goddamn masks!

Look nobody's saying they don't appreciate

what Jenny did.

Well if all I hadda do was cut a bag, I

could cut it better then this.

0. B.

How 'bout-you Robert, can you see?

Not too good. I mean if I.don't move my head,

I can see you pretty good ... . more or less.

But when I start ridin' the bag starts moving

all over, and I'm riding blind.

Randy tears at his bag.

Oh shit, I just made mine worse.

He puts it on-then says;

Yep, it's worse.

He yanks it off his head.

Did anybody bring any extra bags?

No, no one brought a extra bag!

I'm just asking.

Do we hafta wear 'em when we ride?

Shitfire, if you don't wear 'em as you ride

up, that just defeats the purpose.

Redfish, fatter then some (but not all), takes off his bag.

I can't see in this fucking thing!

I can't breathe in this fucking thing!

And I can't ride in this fucking thing!

Fuck all y'all! I'm going home. I watched

my wife work all day gettin' thirty bags

ready for you ungrateful sonsabitches!

And all I hear is criticize, criticize, criticize.

From now on don't ask me or mine for nothin'!

Willard rides off.

O.B. removes his bag, and yells after Willard.

O.B., I tole yo to keep quiet! They're asleep,

not dead.

O.B.

But Willards riding off.

Fuck Willard! Look, let's not forget why we're

here. We gotta killer nigger over that hill.

And we gotta make a lesson outta 'em.

Okay, I'm confused, are the bags on or off?

Robert takes off his bag, and says;

I think we all think the bags was a nice

idea. But, not pointing any fingers, they

could of been done better. So how 'bout,

no bags this time, but next time, we do the

bags right, and then we go full regalia.

Everyone takes off their bag.

Wait a minute, I didn't say no bags!

But nobody can see.

So?

So, it would be nice to see.

Goddamit, this is a raid! I can't see, you

can't see, so what? All that matters is can

the fuckin horse see! That's a raid.

Spencer puts on his sack, everyone else, reluctantly, does as well.

EXT - LAKE - NIGHT

The THIRTY RIDERS, all with SACKS OVER THEIR HEADS, come riding over

the hill, hooting and hollerin. Since nobody can see they ride

haphazard into each other.'Redfish falls off his horse hard on his fat

ass. They surround the camp, and when the sleeping Schultz and Django

don't react, they know something's up. But since nobody can see,

everybody and everybody's horse is. confused.

WE HEAR A GROUP OF LINES FROM CIRCLING COWBOYS ON HORSEBACK WITH BAGS

"Did somebody fall" "Where the hell are they" "Y'all, Redfish fell

off his horse-He's kinda hurt bad."

Then amongst the confusion...

WE SNAP ZOOM TO

A BIG TREE

on the other side of the lake

Then quickly cut into The Tree.

Till we're in a CU OF Dr.SCHULTZ

with a SCOPE SIGHT RIFLE up to his eye.

SCOPE SIGHT POV

The Yellow covered STICKS OF DYNAMITE protruding from the ground, are

inside the scope sight circle, Horse hooves step around it.

Dr.SCHtJLTZ and DJANGO up in a tree.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Auf wiedersehen.

L,

He fires.

The Camp EXPLODES Blowing Horses and Riders Apart.

Dr.Schultz and Django lift up repeating rifles.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Let 'em have it!

I can't see nothin'.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Just fire into the smoke.

The two treetop killers let loose with rifle fire.

INSIDE OF THE SMOKE

pandemonium reigns. Horses and Men trip over bodies and pieces of

bodies, of horses and men. Men with legs and arms blown off, yell

bloody murder, hurt and scared Horses cry. Some struggle to get the

sacks off their heads, while scared horses dance and buck in panic.

Some are shot by the rifle fire. The rest of the men not blown up, and

still on horseback, between the sacks and the smoke, still can't see

worth a damn. And Men and Horses collide with one another, which causes

more bucking and riders falling. About fifteen of the men who can still

ride, high tail it the fuck out of there. Whipped and whimpering like

dogs.

on his horse with the other fleeing regulators RIDES for his life...

SCOPE SIGHT POV

We see the back of the fleeing Bennett smack dab in the cross hairs.

scope sight rifle up to his eye.

Schultz next to him, says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

He's getting away.

I got 'em.

his hooves race and rip up the grass.

riding for his life...

scope sight rifle up to his eye.

Dr.SCHULTZ

He's getting out of range.

I got 'em.

INSERT: A black finger squeezes the rifle trigger.

we're behind him as he rides away, OFF SCREEN we hear the whistling of

what sounds like an incoming missle.

we're in.front of Spencer Bennett as he rides, when Django's bullet,

RIPS THROUGH his CHEST.

I got 'em.

falls from his horse, dead.

scope sight rifle in his hand, big smile on his face, looks.to

Dr.Schultz.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Like that, huh?

Referring to the scope sight rifle;

I like.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well, I think while they take this opportunity

to lick their wounds, we should take this

opportunity to get the fuck out of Tennessee.

They hop out of the tree.

Dr.Schultz in a big city, buying Django a new saddle. Django gets his

first initial "D" etched into it. The men go to different stores to

purchase Django's wardrobe. The outfit bought, is selected by Django,

with suggestions offered by Schultz. When he's done, Django looks damn

handsome in his new duds. Brown cowboy boots, Green Corduroy Jacket,

Smokey Grey Shirt, Tan Skin Tight Pants, and Light Brown Cowboy Hat.

He looks a. bit like Elvis in "Flaming Star" and a Little Joe Cartwright

on "Bonanza". However, tellingly, he keeps Ace Speck's Winter Coat as

his winter coat.

EXT - COUNTRY MEADOW - PRETTY DAY

Django, sitting on his new saddle, in his new duds, rides alongside

the good doctor Schultz. The German carries a PICNIC BASKET.

Dr.SCHULTZ

But I'm serious son, Greenville is just too

dangerous for you to go fucking around there.

You're a freed, slave, you should be in New York.

You shouldn't be in Greenville, you shouldn't

even be forty miles on any side of Greenville.,

You shouldn't be anywhere in Mississippi.

She's my wife, it's my job to look after her.

If Greenville's where I gotta go to find out

where she went, then I gotta go. Now you

were sayin' where I gotta go first?

Dr.SCHULTZ

There'should be some sort of records office.

You know when she was sold, you know where

she came from, the Carrucan Plantation, and

you know her name ... . what is her name?

Broomhilda.

Schultz reacts.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Broomhilda?

Django.nods his head yes.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Were her owners German?

Now Django reacts, "How did he know that?

Yeah, how did you know? She wasn't born on

The Carrucan Plantation. She was raised by

a German mistress, The Von Shafts. She can

speak a little German too.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Your wife?

Yeah, when she was little her mistress taught

her so she'd have somebody to talk German with.

Dr.SCHULTZ

So let me get this straight, your slave

wife speaks German, and her name is

Broomhilda Von Shaft...?

Yep. Mouthful, huh?

Dr.SCHULTZ

To say the least.

(stopping the horse)

This looks like a very pretty place to have

our picnic. What'd ya say, here?

EXT - PICNIC IN COUNTRY MEADOW - PRETTY DAY

The two men sit on a blanket with a nice picnic spread spread out.

Django eats a cucumber sandwich with the crust cut off, and drinks a

cup of tea.

How did you know Broomhilda's first masters

were German?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Broomhilda is a German name. If they named

her, it stands to reason they'd be German.

Lotsa gals where you from named Broomhilda?

Dr.SCHULTZ

No, not so much. Broomhilda is the name of

a character in one of the most popular of

all the German legends.

Really? There's a story 'bout Broomhilda?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes there is.

Do you know it?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Every German knows that story. Would you

like me to tell you?

Django nods his head, yes.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well Broomhilda was a princess. She was the

daughter of Wotan, the god of all gods.

Anyway, her father is really mad at her.

What she do.?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I don't exactly remember. I think she disobeys

him in some way. So at first he's just going to

obliterate her -

Obliterate... . what does that mean?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Like blow up.

He pantomimes a explosion.

Phew, that's pretty mad.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes it is, and like most fathers, given a

little time, he calms down a bit. He's

still mad at her. He still wants to punish her.

Just not ... . blow her up. So instead what he

does, is he puts her high on top of a mountain.

Broomhilda's on a mountain?

Dr.SCHULTZ

It's a German legend, there's always going

to be a mountain in there somewhere. So, he

puts her on top of the mountain and he puts a

fire breathing dragon there to guard the mountain.

And. then he surrounds her in circle of hellfire.

And there Broomhilda shall remain, unless a hero

arises brave enough to save her.

Does a fella arise?

From now on as Dr.Schultz talks, he's beginning to realize something he

wasn't aware of when the conversation started.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes Django, as a matter he does. A fella

named, Sigfried.

Does Sigfried save her?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes he does, and quite spectacularly, so.

Now true, he is assisted in his triumph by

a truly, truly, remarkable sword, still, having

said that, Sigfried triumphs over all of his

obstacles not just due to his sword, but due to

his courage. He scales the mountain, because he's

not afraid of it. He defeats the dragon, because

he's not afraid.of him.

Dr.SCHULTZ (CON'T)

He walks through hellfire because

Broomhilda's worth. it.

After that last line of dialogue... .the two men just let a moment pass

as they nibble on their sandwiches.

I know how he feels.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I think I'm just starting to realize that.

He pours Django and himself some more tea out of a fancy tea pot, as he

thinks about what he's going to say next.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Look Django, I don't doubt one day you will

save your lady love. But I'm afraid I can't

let you go to Greenville in a good conscious.

Let me ask you a question, how do you like

the bounty hunting business?

Kill white folks, and they pay ya?

What's not to like?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I hafta admit, we make a good team.

But I'thought you were mad at me for killin'

Big John and Rodger?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes, on that occasion, you were a tad

overzealous. But normally, that's a good

thing. How'd you like to partner up for

the winter?

What'd ya mean partner up?

Dr.SCHULTZ

You be my deputy, for real this time. A lot

of the big money is in outlaw gangs. Some

of these fellas are worth fifteen hundred or

three thousand a piece. With one man, anything

over three men is a risk. But with a partner?

Creating cross fire? It's fish in a. barrel.

A lot of these gangs hold up in the'hills

for the winter.

You makin' another agreement?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes. You work with me through the winter,

till the snow melts. I give you a third

of my bounties. And while we're together,

I'll teach you a few things you're going

to need to know.

Can you teach me how to make Tony do that

head bow thing that Fritz can do?

Dr.SCHULTZ

That among other things. We make some

money this winter, when the snow melts,

I'll take you to Greenville myself, and

we'll find where they sent your wife.

I'm pretty good at finding people. Is it a deal?

No white man has ever done anything for Django, just to him. So

understandably, he's a little suspicious.

Why you care what happens to me? Why you

care if I find my wife?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well frankly, I've never given anybody

their freedom before. And now that I have,

I feel vaguely responsible for you. You're

just not ready to go off on your own, it's

that simple. You're too green, you'll get hurt.

Plus when a German meets a real life Sigfried,.

it's kind of a big deal. As a German, I'm

obliged to help you on your quest to

rescue your beloved Broomhilda.

Django accepts that response.

What follows is a MONTAGE covering the five months that Django and

Schultz partner up as bounty hunters. Schultz wears his normal

ensemble. Django wears his cool looking Green Jacket, unless it's

really cold, which a lot of this Montage is. Then he still wears Ace

Specks raw hide winter coat over his cool clothes.

A SCENE to be improvised (more or less), where Dr.Schultz teaches

Django how to draw and shoot the pistol in the holster at his hip.

By the end of the scene, after trial and error, we see Django's going

to be good at this.

EXT - HILLSIDE - SUNNY DAY

We see Django and Dr.Schultz walking up a hill. Tony and Fritz have

been left tied up downhill. Django leads a extra body HORSE (named

PONCHO) behind him. Dr.Schultz carries his scope sight rifle in 'a long

case. They get to the top of the hill. It overlooks a small farmhouse.

Y, 8

DOWN BELOW WE SEE

A LITTLE MAN struggling behind a plow, and his FIFTEEN YEAR OLD SON

helping him by leading the horse forward.

On top of their perch on the hill top, Dr.Schultz says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Keep down or he'll see you.

Who that farmer? Who cares?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well since we came here to kill 'em, he

just might.

What? The little man pushin' that plow?

Dr.SCHULTZ

That little man pushing that plow, is Smitty Bacall.

Smitty Bacall is a farmer?

Dr.SCHULTZ

No. Smitty Bacall is a stagecoach robber

who's hiding out as a farmer, because

there's a seven thousand dollar bounty on

his head.

He hands Django the scope rifle case.

Dr.SCHULTZ

And he's all yours my boy.

DJANGO lays on his belly, with the Scope Sight up to his eye.

SCOPE SIGHT POV:

on the Farmer struggling behind his plow, working hard with his horse

and his son.

Django's finger on the trigger... .but he hesitates.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh what happened.to mister I wanna kill white

folks for money?

His son's with him.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Good. He'll have a loved one with him.

Maybe even share a last word. That's

better then most get, and a damn. sight

better then he deserves.

Django still hesitates.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Put down the rifle. Don't worry, I'm not

mad at you. Take out Smitty Bacall's handbill.

Django removes the folded up handbill from the pocket of his tan pants.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Read it aloud. Consider it today's lesson.

"Wanted, dead or alive. Smitty Bacall and

The Smitty Bacall Gang. For murder and

stagecoach robbery. Seven thousand dollars

for Smitty Bacall. One thousand and five

hundred dollars for each of his gang members.

Known members of The Smitty Bacall Gang are as

follows, DANDY MICHAELS, GERALD NASH, and

CRAZY CRAIG KOONS."

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well done. Bravo. THAT is who Smitty Bacall

is. If Smitty Bacall wanted to start a farm at

twenty-two, they would never of printed that.

But Smitty Bacall wanted to rob stagecoaches,

and he didn't mind killing people to do it.

You want to save your wife by doing what

I do? This is what I do. I kill people,

and sell their corpses for cash. His corpse

is worth seven thousand dollars.

Now quit your pussyfootin and shoot him.

Django SHOOTS.

The Little Man down below behind the plow falls down.

The Young Boy doesn't know what happened at first. Then he figures'out

his father was just shot. He goes to him in the dirt.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You need to keep that Smitty Bacall handbill.

Why?

Dr.SCHULTZ

It's good luck. You always keep the

handbill of your first bounty.

They begin walking down the hill, to collect Smitty Bacall's body,

leading the extra body horse behind them.

As they walk down hill, they watch the little scene of Smitty Bacall's

Son cradling his dying father.in his arms, the older man speaking his

last words to his son before he dies.

Dr.SCHULTZ

See, they're having a tender little father son

moment now. No doubt the most heartfelt one

they've ever had.

EXT - SNOWY FOREST - NIGHT

It's now full on snowy winter in the hills.

Django practices his quick draw against a SNOWMAN he's built. He sticks

a BOTTLE in it, so the bottom of the bottle is where the snowman's

heart would be.

He DRAWS...

Shoots the bottle heart!

He DRAWS ...

Shoots the left coal eye.

He DRAWS ...

Shoots the right coal eye.

He DRAWS...

Shoots the carrot nose.

Dr.Schultz comes up behind him.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I think it's safe to say you're faster then

the snowman.

EXT - SNOWY FOREST - DIFFERENT NIGHT

A outlaw gang known as The WILSON - LOWE GANG (five guys) ride through

a snowy forest at night. When all five men and their Horses, are SHOT

FROM ABOVE.

DJANGO AND SCHULTZ

up in a tree, FIRING DOWN ON them.

EXT - WINTER MOUNTAIN TOWN MAIN STREET - NIGHT

The FLAKES continue to FALL HARD as Dr.Schultz and Django ride down

the main street of town, pulling poor Poncho who's FULLY LOADED DOWN

with five corpses.

The local SHERIFF, DON GUS, watches the two men ride up, he knows them.

Doctor and Django, how the hell are ya,

and who the hell ya got there?

Dr.SCHULTZ

The Wilson - Lowe Gang.

Who the hell's The Wilson - Lowe Gang?

Dr.Schultz removes a handbill from his inside jacket pocket, and hands

it down to the friendly peace officer.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Bad Chuck Wilson, and meaner Bobby Lowe.

And three of their acolytes.

Just leave 'em out here, they ain't going

nowhere. And if'in they do, god must love

'em, so who are we to say. Come outta the

snowy snow and git yourself some coffee.

TNT - SHERIFF GUS'S OFFICE - NIGHT

The snow encrusted bounty hunters come inside the lawmans office.

They exchange pleasantries about the weather as the Sheriff pours them

coffee. After the two frosty gentlemen have drunk some of the hot

liquid, they get down to business. As Schultz and Gus discuss the

bounties, Django reads the handbills aloud from off the wall. On the

third one he reads, WARREN VANDERS, and a two thousand dollar bounty,

"That one", Schultz says.

Django RIPS IT off the wall.

As the winter has progressed, we see they've become a genuine bounty

hunting team. And Django, a genuine bounty hunter.

EXT - PRETTY MEADOW - DAY

The snow has melted, and it's SPRING. And inside of this meadow Django

practices his fast draw against five men...

.by Schultz throwing FIVE COINS in the air ...

DJANGO DRAWS FAST shoots three coins, FIRES again hitting another, then

falls to the ground to get the fifth.

He looks up from the ground at Schultz.

As Schultz collects the coins off the ground, he says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

You're pretty confident aren't you?

Django nods his head, yes.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You have reason to be.

He holds out his fist, opens his hand, the coins lay in his palm.

All the coins have bullet holes dead in their center. He drops them on

top of Django.

Still think I'm too green for Greenville?

Dr.Schultz removes a pipe, sticks it in his mouth and says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh you're ready for Greenville.

He lights a match, then lights the pipe, puffing as he says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Greenville ready for you, that I'm not so

sure.

He blows out the match...

WE GO TO BLACK

What we also saw in the above montage is Django shake off a lifetime of

slavery. Django, in his green jacket, in his cowboy hat, on top of his

steed Tony, with his gun hanging from his hip, has become his own man.

He's not a slave anymore. He's a bounty hunter.

BLACK TITLE CARD

ACROSS THE SCREEN ONE LETTER AT A TIME STYLE (ala "Rocky" and

EXT - THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE MISSISSIPPI - DAY

The whole Main Street of Greenville is thick with five inches of shit

brown mud that all the horse hooves, and wagon wheels, and slave feet

have to wade through to get from one end of the town to the other.

We see Django and Dr.Schultz enter the town, and slosh their horses in

the mud,, down the main street of Greenville Mississippi. The buying and

selling of slaves is what the whole town is built around.

BLACK MEN, WOMEN, and CHILDREN in BONDAGE are everywhere you look.

LINES OF CHAINED SLAVES being marched one way or the other, move

through the muddy streets of Greenville. WHITE MEN on horses move them

along.

BUCKBOARDS filled with DOMESTIC SLAVES (HOUSE NIGGERS), and pretty

PONYS, driven by WHITE MEN roll through the street.

A YOUNG WHITE BOY (14 years old), a shepherd, leads a bunch of

SLAVE CHILDREN through town. A SHEPHERD'S DOG, HELPS HIM OUT BY MOVING

THE KIDS ALONG.

Impromptu slave auctions take place on almost every block.

A SUBTITLE APPEARS on the bottom of the screen:

CHICKASAW COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI

Dr.Schultz takes in this African flesh market, where human beings sell

other human beings, with disgust and a little bit of shock.

Django is neither disgusted or. shocked, he knows first hand how

Greenville operates.

As he rides Tony through town in his snappy duds, he looks'at the BLACK

MEN half dressed: in chains. He REMEMBERS HIMSELF with his six Other

Companions from earlier, being walked through the mud of Main Street by

The Speck Brothers. On that day he might as well of been a steer.

Today, with a gun on his hip, money in his pocket, in his snappy

outfit, astride his steed Tony, he feels so different from these

wretched half naked bastards it gives him a bit of a chill.

Django sees the towns railroad depot, and across from it a huge SLAVE

PEN, like a STEER CORRAL. At the moment there's no train in the depot.

WE FLASH ON

The TRAIN, at a earlier time, pulling into the depot.

INSIDE ONE OF THE BOXCARS

amidst a boxcar full of shirtless BLACK MALES, Django watches the train

pull into the station, from inside the wooden slates of the boxcar.:

A hatch in the roof of the boxcar is NOISILY YANKED OPEN, and TWO WHITE

SLAVE TRADERS (RUSS AND JUDD), peer down at their human cargo.

Good god almighty these niggers stink!

Niggers stink, where's the shock?

(to the Slaves

Okay you bucks, listen up, and listen

well, I'm only gonna say this once.

There's a slave corral right across from

this boxcar. We gittin ready to open these

doors. When we do, y'all run as fast as you

can, right into that pen. 'Anyone gittin off

trail, gonna get hurt and hurt bad. Now you

niggers better comprehend. And that goes for

any African garboons amongst y'all can't

understand english ... . your American buddies

better shove your ass in the right direction,

or your trip to this country is going to be

short, and pointless. Train to pen as fast as

you can!

The boxcar door is slid open, and a HUNDRED AND FIFTY BLACK MALES

run full out from the train to the steer corral.

We spot Django during the running.

Once inside the corral, the gate is closed.

COWBOYS with rifles act as prison guards.

INSIDE THE CORRAL

through the wooden posts, in the distance, Django watches them open up

the boxcar holding the females. They do their run to their pen out of

view.

Django catches a quick glimpse of Broomhild.a running with the other

LADIES, then she's gone from view.

BACK TO DJANGO (PRESENT)

Django and Dr.Schultz on top of their horses, taking in the sight of

Greenville.

Dr.SCHULTZ

It's a spectacle out of Dante.

You should see it from the other side.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Frankly, I don't know if I could endure this.

You'd be surprised what you can endure.

Where to?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Records office.

INT - RECORDS OFFICE - DAY

Dr.Schultz and Django walk into a records office, lined with books.

We watch through the store front window, the black man and white man

enter, and Dr.Schultz present his business card to a Dickensian looking

RECORDS OFFICE WORKER. As Schultz starts his spellbinding with words

routine... . The CAMERA FADES TO BLACK.

BLACK TITLE CARD:

INT - SLAVE PEN - DAY

The same shot we saw before of Django fighting his way to the bars of

the slave pen, to get a better last look of Broomhilda.

Broomhilda, as before is walked by in the distance.

Then, as before Django loses sight of her.

EXT - MAIN STREET - GREENVILLE - DAY

We follow in front of Broomhilda being lead out of the slave pen by TWO

WHITE MALE SLAVERS. Her bare feet slosh in the Main Street mud, and

the leg irons scrap her ankles.

Up until now everything you've ever seen of Broomhilda, has only been

in Django's Spaghetti Western Flashbacks. In other words, from his

perspective, and memory. This is the,only time the story will shift to

Broomhilda's perspective. The strong but frightened girl is led out on

to the hustle and bustle, and wagon wheels and horse hoofs of Main

Street.

Broomhilda is not taken into that three story auction arena that Django

was sold in at the beginning. Instead She's just lifted up on a parked

buckboard wagon. Her SELLER (CLYDE) starts his pitch on the TWELVE or

so BUYERS that watch this puny make shift auction.

looks down into the crowd of twelve ugly white men, and holds her

breath which one will buy her.

Among the ugly white men we see Mr.HARMONY (MIKE), not quite as ugly as

the rest. An older well dressed, classy gentleman. Next to him is his

twenty four year old overweight awkward son SCOTTY HARMONY.

Scotty in the audience, and Broomhilda on the wagon, THEIR EYES MEET,

he nudges his dad.

The Seller makes her expose her breasts to the small crowd. Then her

back, revealing her whip marks. Then pointing out the runaway "r"

branded in her cheek.

Some of the crowd, including Scotty, react with repulsion at the sight

of the whip marks. The Seller assures the crowd, that niggers don't

feel pain like white folks, and it only makes the women more gentle.

SELLER - CLYDE

Fellahs, you ain't felt gentle, till you felt

nigger gal gentle.

makes a bid.

yikes.

higher bid.

reacts.

UGLIER BY FAR GUY

makes leap frog big bid.

reacts.

BIG GREASY FAT GUY

makes a bid.

BIG FAT GREASY BEAVER PELT COVERED TRAPPER

makes a bid.

A GIGGLING LEERING GROUP OF BROTHERS

make a bid.

A SEVENTY FIVE YEAR OLD INDIAN ON A MULE

makes a bid.

Mr.Harmony makes a bid for his son Scotty.

Broomhilda notices that. And makes more eye contact with Scotty.

They look at each other as Mr.Harmony continues to bid.

A LITERARY NARRATOR comes on the soundtrack.

On that day, eight months ago, the auction

was won by Mike Harmony, as a birthday present

for his fat boy son Scotty.

Mr.Harmony congratulates his son.

From on top of the buckboard Broomhilda looks down at her new owners.

Later they leave for the Harmony house. Scotty lifts Broomhilda up into

the back of the buckboard. He hands her a little white bag.

This is for you.

She opens the bag,candies of many colors sit in it.

They're jelly beans. Try one.

She selects a yellow one and puts it in her mouth.

Good huh?

She nods her head, yes.

We see him drive the buckboard out of Greenville with Broomhilda in the

back eating her bag of jelly beans.

$XT - COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

The buckboard makes its way down a country road. Broomhilda in the

back, and Scotty driving the wagon.

Scotty bought her, but he's too scared to talk to her.

Broomhilda's muddy bare feet dangle off the wagon. She's beginning to

realize the young master is the shy type.

Master Scotty... ?

Yes Broomhilda?

I'm lonely back here. Can I come on up with

you on that seat so we can talk?

Please, I'd love that.

She climbs into the driver's seat. In more ways then one.

EXT - THE HARMONY HOUSE - DAY

A nice two story southern house. Very nice, but hardly a plantation.

The household's FOUR DOMESTIC SLAVES. Broomhilda will be the fifth. The

buckboard pulls up to the front of the house.

Scotty's mother, Mrs.HARMONY (MARY LOUISE), waits to meet her son, and

his new bought nigger gal.

The older lady looks the black girl up and down and says to her;

Mrs.HARMONY

What's your name, gal?

Broomhilda.

Mrs.HARMONY

Follow me. into the kitchen,

('to her son)

You stay out here.

INT - KITCHEN - DAY

Mrs.Harmony brings Broomhilda in her kitchen. The TWO DOMESTIC SLAVES

that were in, there are chased out by the boss lady. Mrs.Harmony grabs

Broomhilda by the wrist, and tells her;

Mrs.HARMONY

I want to have a word with you, wench. You met

my boy Scotty. You can tell ain't no white

girl gonna fool with him. And if they do fool

with him, they fool with him for the wrong

reason. Boy's twenty four, he still ain't a

man yet. That's why you're here. Be nice to him.

He's a very sweet boy. Play him right, he'll

eat bird seed out of your palm. Play 'em

wrong, you'll deal with me.

I like Scotty. He's just shy is all. All he

needs is a little confidence.

Mrs.HARMONY

And you'll give that to him?

I'll do my best, mam. Scotty's a real sweet boy.

Mrs.HARMONY

He is, isn't he?

Ah-huh.

The mother lets go of the young lady's wrist.

Basically The Harmony's bought a slave

bride for young master Scotty that day.

And the two kids had a nice time playing

house for awhile.

We see Scotty and Broomhilda catching butterflies in butterfly nets in

the daytime..

At night they catch LIGHTNING BUGS together.

At night in Scotty's bed, while the young man lay fast asleep,

Broomhilda looks at her jelly jar of GLOWING LIGHTNING BUGS.

As Scotty's sort of defacto sweetheart, if

no visitors were about, Broomhilda would

even join the family at their dinner table.

We see them at dinner eating fried chicken and mashed potatoes and

gravy.

NARRATOR.(VO)

And pretty soon she was adopted into a

member of the family.

Mrs.Harmony and Broomhilda sewing together.

The Harmony family and Broomhilda playing croquet in the front yard.

After dinner, Mrs.Harmony entertaining the family by playing the piano.

Mr.Harmony reading the women and his son a story from a storybook.

Scotty was never happier.

Scotty and Broomhilda walking holding hands at Southern magic hour.

Broomhilda having sex with Scotty, baby talking with him, talking him

through it, making him feel loved and secure.

After three months of this bliss,

Scotty decided to take Broomhilda for

a romantic weekend in Greenville.

SCOTTY AND BROOMHILDA

drive through the Main Street of Greenville, dressed to the nines, in a

fancy carriage. Broomhilda dressed in a beautiful white lace dress,

complete with white lace gloves, fancy ladies hat, and white parasol.

Scotty, very proud of his pretty Pony, is dressed in a fashion best

described as plantation pimp daddy.

White masters would take their pretty

Ponys to Greenville for a treat or romantic

excursion, for two reasons-One, seeing

how bad the other slaves had it, always made

the papered Ponys appreciate their privilege

position, (just in case they'd forgot).

holding her parasol, looking like a black Daisy Miller, watches the

OTHER SLAVES march by in the mud. They watch her too.

INT - HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Broomhilda and Scotty, and their luggage, move into the fancy hotel

lobby, and rent a room at the front desk.

INSERT: HOTEL REGISTRY

Scotty signs his name. The DESK CLERKS HAND checks the box on the

registry book that indicates darkee female companion.

INT -. GREENVILLE - NIGHT

showing off their Ponys (like Scotty), rule the streets.

And two, there was a sliver of society that

ran through Greenville at night that catered

to white masters who were infected with a

condition that was normally referred to as,

"Nigger love." At night the streets, the bars,

bistros, and buggy rides were ruled by rich

white masters showing off their pretty Pony's.

EXT - CLEOPATRA CLUB - NIGHT

An establishing shot.of the three story house that has been converted into

private club called, The Cleopatra Club.

But the crown jewel of all this interracial

frivolity, was the members only, Cleopatra

Club.

INSERT: GOLD PLAQUE

with the name, THE CLEOPATRA CLUB on it, next to it is a profile of

Nefertiti.

INT - THE CLEOPATRA CLUB - RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The interracial joint is jumping (as long as by interracial you mean

white men and black women).

Scotty and Broomhilda are enjoying a fancy dinner in the clubs dining

room.

We see across the dining room, the powerful white man, CALVIN CANDIE,

sitting with some White Men and some Black Ponys, eyeing Broomhilda.

I gotta tell you Broomhilda -

I don't care if I go to. hell for this -

I love you. And if loving you means I go to

hell ... . Well then hello Mr.Devil.

That was actually kind of funny. Broomhilda was right, all he needed

was a little confidence. She puts her hand on his.

Then... speak of the devil and the devil

appears.

appears at their table.

Hello, my name is Calvin Candie, I own

The Cleopatra Club. And I would just like

to welcome an attractive couple'like

yourselves to my favorite place on earth.

Scotty stands up and shakes hands with Calvin.

Thank you so much, it's a great honor.

We love it here.

Pointing at a empty chair.

May I join you?-

Please, by all means.

Calvin sits down.

Broomhilda gets a sinister chill from this smiling jack.

Scotty, as per usual, is clueless.

How long have you been a member?

We just joined this weekend.

Well our little private oasis appreciates

your patronage. Some may consider the dues

excessive, but they're necessary for us to

create this haven for the alternative

lifestyle we've all become accustomed to.

Well said, and money well spent.

He squeezes Broomhilda's hand.

Candie sees this.

It would be.my pleasure, your first

weekend at the club, to join me and my

friends at my table.

Broomhilda knows this is a man to be avoided.

But Scotty is swept away being courted by somebody like Calvin Candie.

She tries to imply they should stay where they are. He brushes her off

with a, "Don't be silly."

We see Calvin introduce his table of friends to the couple, and they

join the party.

Calvin Candie has his arm around a foxy Pony named SHEBA, whose dress

is a little more revealing then the others.

They drink and talk, and the White Men have a forced good time. But

Calvin Candie can't hide his sinister side from Broomhilda, and it

keeps her uncomfortable, until she excuses herself from the table to go

to bed. Scotty's having such a good time with his fancy friends he opts

to stay behind.'Broomhilda leaves in a bit of a huff, due to Scotty's

disobedience. If these fancy.fucking white men weren't around making

Scotty feel so puffy chested, he'd never dismiss her that way.

We FOLLOW Broomhilda out of the club, across the street, to the hotel.

After excusing herself, she walked across

the street to her hotel room. She got

her white dress dirty in the mud, but she

didn't care, the night was ruined anyway.

Some romantic weekend. Wait till she gets

home and tells his mother how he ignored her.

She'll fix his fat ass. Wait till he asks her

to scratch his back next time. She's gonna

scrape every pimple.

i12-. BACK AT THE CLEO CLUB

The now drunk Scotty is playing poker with Calvin and his friends.

Back at The Cleopatra Club, as the night

wore on, Calvin Candie suggested'a friendly

card game. As the game wore on, it came down

to a two thousand dollar pot between

Calvin Candie and Scotty Harmony. Luckily

for him, Scotty was holding.a inside straight.

Calvin holds his cards with Sheba draped around him. She whispers

something in his ear.

Really?

You know what Sheba just tole me?

Scotty, thinking about his great hand, says;

What?

She says she thinks you're cute.

Really? Thank you Sheba, I think you're

beautiful.

Sheba whispers something else in Candie's ear.

Sheba says she'd like to give you a little

lip. Want some lip?

Scotty, is a little surprised.

Well, she's your Pony...I mean...

Oh hush, what's a little nigger lip 'tween

friends. Go on honey, give 'em some sugar.

Sheba walks over to Scotty's side of the table, and gives him a very lip

intensive'soul kiss. The table enjoys the show. Then Sheba goes back to

Calvin's side of the table.

The game continues.

Okay loverboy, I think you're trying to out

brazen me in my own club, and I won't have

it. If you're really holding cards, time to

pony up. I raise you five hundred.

Candie throws in his chips.

SCOTTY.

I see your five hundred...

(throws in chips)

.and raise you four hundred more.

(tosses his last chips)

Call.

This is where Calvin Candie has waited to be all night.

Not so fast, boy.

Pot ain't fat enough yet.

I'm all in.

Ain't that too bad.

Scotty doesn't intend to let this smiling Jack cheat him out of his

pot, especially with him holding an inside straight.

I would think a southern gentleman of

such renown as yourself, wouldn't have

to resort to buying a pot in his own club.

Calvin writes on a piece of paper, then throwsit'in the pot.

One final raise.

Scotty takes the piece of paper, "What's this?"

It's Sheba's bill of sale.

What? I don't want her.

Calvin.and the whole table laugh at that.

You sure didn't look like you didn't want her.

More laughter.

In Greenville slaves are currency. And

Sheba's worth about eight hundred dollars.

I'm throwing Sheba in the pot. Match or

fold?

I'm all out of money.

But we ain't playin' for money no more..

We matchin' nigger gals. And a nigger gal

you got.

I can't bet Broomhilda.

In Chickasaw County, she's money. Pony her up

or fold. Somebody get him a piece of paper

and a pencil.

Somebody does.

Write out a bill of sale, or fold them cards.

Scotty makes a pressured decision.

He hurriedly takes the pencil and writes out a Bill of Sale for

Broomhilda.

Let me see your cards!

Candie lays down his cards, he has a FLUSH.

What Scotty's just done hits him like a ton of bricks.

You cheated me.

After Scotty uses the "C" word, everybody quiets down.

What did you just call me?

I called you a card cheatin' son of a bitch,

cause that's what you are!

Calvin calmly stands up from the table. He removes a small Derringer

Gun.from his pocket, and tosses it on the table in front of Scotty.

Then takes out another one, and tosses it on the table in front

himself .

Everybody in The Cleo Club quiets down.

Scott Harmony. For calling me a card cheat

in my own club, as a southern gentleman,

I challenge you to a duel.

(to the Piano

Piano player, will you hit three separate

notes?

On the third note, pick up the gun and

try to kill me.

(to Piano player)

Piano player please ...

This is all going too fast for slow Scotty.

Wait a minute ...no!

FIRST NOTE ...

I ain't dueling with you! I don't want

to duel!

Then get out of here, get in your buggy

and get out of town.

Sure. Let me just get my girl.

You lost that girl, fat boy.

SECOND NOTE...

Wait!... . Look ... . Mr.Candie, I'm sorry I

called you a cheat. But... please...I can't

give you Broomhilda.

Last chance fat boy, go home and get'useta

to fuckin' another one.

Or pick up that gun.

Scotty can't leave. He can't go home without her. He can't face his

parents. He can't walk out on her. No matters what happens he can't

leave.

THIRD NOTE...

Calvin Candie SHOOTS Scotty Harmony dead.

INT - HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Calvin Candie and his entourage enter the hotel lobby and go up to the

FRONT DESK CLERK..

Hello Oliver.

FRONT DESK CLERK (OLIVER)

Hello Mr.Candie, good evening.

Good evening to you as well,. young Oliver.

Could you please inform me which room

your guest Scott Harmony is staying in?

INT - HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Broomhilda is asleep in bed...

WHEN ...

.Calvin comes'BURSTING in the room holding his belt in his hand. He

YANKS OFF the sheets that Broomhilda sleeps under. Broomhilda lies

naked under the covers. Candie brings the belt down around her legs and

backside.

She hops out of bed.

INT - HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Candie CHASES her naked body with his belt, from the top of the stairs,

down the stairs, and through the lobby, and out the front door.

All to the amusement of the WHITE HOTEL GUESTS.

EXT - GREENVILLE HOTEL - NIGHT

She RUNS out of the hotel naked, and then TRIPS FALLING INTO THE

GREENVILLE MUD. She looks up from the mud, at Calvin Candie looking

down at her.

Welcome to Candyland.

We do a SLOW ZOOM into Broomhilda's face.

That was four months ago.

INT - GREENVILLE SLAVE AUCTION - DAY

Back inside the three story Auction Block domed room.

The same room Django was sold in at the beginning.

Tons of WHITE BUYERS and SELLERS and BLACK SLAVES to be bought or sold

fill the big hall.

ONE MANDINGO SLAVE (BANJO)

stands half naked on the auction block.

The SELLER' (SHELBY)

gives the crowd,a sales pitch about Banjo, and starts the bidding.

Many different UGLY WHITE MEN make bids on the big mandingo, including

Calvin Candie.

Dr.SCHULTZ and DJANGO from a pair of OPERA GLASSES

/-. watch Calvin Candie from up above on the 2nd floor landing.

FROM Dr.SCHULTZ'S PERSPECTIVE

We see Calvin Candie, and his black slave.bodyguard, BARTHOLOMEW,

always dressed in a slightly ill fitting three piece suit and bowler

hat, among the crowd of buyers at the auction block below.

Candie's lawyer LEONIDE MOGUY joins him.

Dr.SCHULTZ

His name is Calvin Candle, and he is the

owner of Candyland.

Candyland? The mandingo fightin' place?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh, so you heard of it?

Ain't no slave ain't heard of Candyland.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well apparently, that's where your wife is,

and apparently the repellent gentleman down

there is the one who owns her.

i12i12` TIME CUT

The White Man and Black Man find a cubby hole to talk in the auction

hall.

Dr.SCHULTZ

How much do you know about mandingo fighting?

Not so much... A little... Master Carrucan had

a couple niggers he'd fight.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Can you play a mandingo expert?

What?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Can you convincingly masquerade as someone

who is an expert on mandingo fighters?

Why?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Because when a man has one of the four

biggest cotton plantations in Dixie, but

the only thing that seems to ring his chimes

is big sweaty black males, if WE want to get

his attention, we better be talking about

big sweaty black males. So my character is

that of a big money buyer from Dusseldorf, here

in Greenville to buy my way into the mandingo

fight game. And your character is the mandingo

expert I hired to help me do it.

They call that "One-Eyed Charly."

Dr.SCHULTZ.

One-Eyed Charly?

That's what you call it when you buy a slave

expert. If you wanna raise horses, but don't

know nothin' 'about horses, you buy yourself

a One-Eyed Charly who knows about horses.

He teaches ya. You wanna plant tobacco but

don't know nothin' about it, you buy yourself

a One-Eyed Charly knows about tobacco.

Dr'. SCHULTZ

Why do they call it One-Eyed Charly?

You know, back on the plantation, my. job

wasn't historian.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Testy. It's an unusual name. That's a perfectly

legitimate question. So, can you convincingly

play my mandingo One-Eyed Charly? Don't say,

yes, if you can't.

You want me to play a black slaver? There

ain't nothin lower then a black slaver. Black

slavers are lower then head house niggers, and

buddy, that's pretty fuckin low.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Then play him that way! Give me your black slaver.

Django gets that.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Can you do that?

That, I can do. What's next?

Dr.SCHULTZ

To get ourselves personally invited to

Candyland by Calvin Candie himself.

EXT - THE CLEOPATRA CLUB - NIGHT

Dr.SCHULTZ and DJANGO stand across the street from The Cleopatra Club.

Which looks like aregular nice three story house, among other.nice

houses on an affluent residential block in Greenville Mississippi.

They open the tiny garden gate in front of the house, walk up the stoop

steps to the front door. They ring the doorbell.

A pretty young black girl, dressed in a FRENCH MAID outfit opens the

door.

Bonjour.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Bonjour, mon petite femme noire.

We are here to see Calvin Candie.

She's been taught to smile and say:

Enter.

The two men walk into the entrance way of the house.

A beautiful mulatto HOSTESS greets the two men.

Hello gentlemen, I'm Cleo, can I help you?

Dr.Schultz hands Cleo the guest card.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes I am Dr.King Schultz, and this is my

associate, Django Freeman.

Upon hearing Django is a free man her eyes go to, him.

Dr.SCHULTZ

We're here for a appointment with

Calvin Candie and Leo Moguy.

Yes you gentlemen are expected. Please

make yourself comfortable. I'll inform

Monsieur Candie you've arrived.

(referring to the

Can Coco get either of you two gentlemen

a tasty refreshment?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Not at the moment.

Then Coco will entertain you while I

inform Monsieur Candie.

Dr.SCHULTZ

How charming.

Cleo leaves.

Django wanders over the dining room, and peers inside.

INT - DINING ROOM (CLEOPATRA CLUB) - NIGHT

GIRLS (PONYS) dressed in the most elaborate ladies fashions of the day.

Some appear to be on dates.

Some appear to be enjoying a special evening (birthday, anniversary,

special treat).

- Some are.two men with two women.

Some are one man with two or three or more women.

The white men's ages range from early twenties to old men.

The girls ages ranges from their twenties, to thirteen.

The bill of fare is a combination of French cuisine, and hearty beef

driven American dining.

The dolled up, decked out'Ponys eat rich French cuisine complete with

elaborate sauces, and take their knives to thick cuts of steak.

The younger little girls, usually eat ice cream with hot fudge, banana

splits, and cookies.

While-all the men drink whiskey or wine, the girls all drink

sarsaparilla.

Dr.Schultz quietly moves next to Django and asks;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Have you ever seen anything like this

before?

Django shakes his head, no.

COLO. -

Y'all gonna dine, it's real good. You

like catfish, we got good catfish. They use

alotta butta. You like sand dabs, we

got sand dabs.

LEO MOGUY descends from the clubs prominent staircase.

Dr.Schultz, good to see you again.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Mr.Moguy, thank you for your assistance

in creating the opportunity for this

appointment.

Mr.MOGUY

Nonsense, it's my job.

Mr.MOGUY

.So this'is the One-Eyed Charly I've heard

so much about.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes, this is Django.. Django, this is Mr.Candie's

lawyer, Leonide'Moguy.

Just call me Leo. Calvin's in the billiard

room, follow me. Y'all want Coco should come

along too?

Dr.SCHULTZ

We would be quite lucky indeed if the

charming Coco cared.to follow.

Coco blushes.

You better watch out doctor, you gonna

steal this little pony's heart.

They walk through the club to get to the billiard room, as they do they

Dr.SCHULTZ

How long have you been associated with

Mr.Candie?

Calvin and I were about eleven when we

went to boarding school together. One

could almost say, I was raised to be

Calvin's lawyer.

One could almost say, you a nigger.

Coco can't believe what this snappy looking cowboy nigger just said to

Mr.Moguy.

What did you say?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh nothing, he's just being cheeky.

Anything else about Mr.Candie I should

know before I meet him?

Yes, he's a bit of a Francophile.

Dr.SCHULTZ

What civilized people aren't?

That's why all the French ambiance. And

he prefers Monsieur Candie to Mister Candie.

Dr.Schultz says in FRENCH SUBTITLED IN ENGLISH;

Dr.SCHULTZ

What ever he prefers.

This stops Moguy, and he turns to warn Schultz.

Oh he doesn't speak French. Don't speak

French to him, it'll embarrass him.

They get to the two sliding doors that lead to the billiard room.

Moguy slides the doors open...

The party enters the billiard room.

INT - BILLIARD ROOM (CLEOPATRA CLUB) - NIGHT

the ill fitting suit), and the lanky sexy Sheba.

Also, at this moment, TWO MANDINGOS are having a bloody and savage

fight to death in this closed room.

An older European looking man, who's rooting for the mandingo that

Calvin's not rooting for, is also in the room. His name is.AMERIGO

VASSEPI.

Before any introductions can be made, with his back to the new arrivals

and his eyes on the black men fighting for their life, Calvin says;

Why do you want to get in the mandingo

business?

That's quite abrupt and aggressive.

Dr.Schultz says, as if he's just been massively insulted;

Dr.SCHULTZ

You don't intend to allow your 2nd...

(referring to Moguy)

.to make the proper introductions?

Without turning towards them, Candie tells Schultz;

Quit stalling and answer the question.

The room is quiet.

Dr.SCHULTZ

The awful truth?

I'm bored, and it seems like a good

bit of fun.

Candie takes that to heart. He'll accept it for now.

Well come on over, cause we gotta us a fight

goin on that's a good bit of fun_

Dr.Schultz steps up to get a better look at the savage fight.

The bigger mandingo is really hurting the smaller one.

Schultz has schooled Django on the importance of never BREAKING

CHARACTER.' Well now the good doctor must practice what he preaches.

Which means not only must he watch. the two men beat each other to

death, he must appear to convincingly enjoy it.

CALVIN CANDIE.

The bigger nigger is mine. I just bought

him today. What's his name, Moguy?

Big Fred.

The other nigger belongs to this disreputable

Italian gentlemen to my right. Amerigo Vassepi.

What's your nigger's name?

Luigi... .?

Candie looks over at Django; who doesn't walk over to watch the fight.

Instead he walks over to a bar set up in the room. A slave bartender

named, ROSCOE tends it.

How 'bout you, boy? You find nigger fightin'

a good bit of fun?

You seen one nigger fight, ya seen 'em all.

How'd you two like to try the signature drink

of the club?

Dr.SCHULTZ

We'd love to.

(yelling to the

Roscoe, two Polynesian Pearl Divers, and

don't spare the rum.

Roscoe makes the drinks in coconut shell glasses.

Big Fred kills Luigi.

Candie and his friends cheer.

Arrivederci Luigi! Well, Mr.Vassepi, looks

like you owe me ten dollars.

Amerigo pays up the puny bet.

sip. Schultz hates it, Django loves it.

Candle turns his attention to Django.

What's your name, boy?

Dr.SCHULTZ

His name is Django.

Where'd ya dig him up?

Dr.SCHULTZ

A fortuitous turn of events brought

Django and myself together.

I've heard tell about you. I heard you're a

real bright boy.

I'm curious, what makes you such a

mandingo expert?

I'm curious, what makes you so curious?

Bartholomew puts down his pool cue, and turns toward Django;

What you say, boy?

/i12. Candie puts a calming hand on Bartholomew's shoulder.

Calm down Bartholomew, gentle... gentle.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Monsieur Candie, I would appreciate it if

you directed your line of inquiry to me.

Doc, I'm a seasoned slaver, you are a

neophyte. I'm simply trying to ascertain

if this cowboy is taking advantage of you.

Dr.SCHULTZ

With all due respect, Monsieur Candie, I

didn't seek you out for your advice. I

sought you out to purchase a fighting

nigger at above top dollar market price.

I was'under the impression when you

granted me an audience, it would be to

discuss business.

No we weren't talking business yet. We

were discussing my curiosity.

Now according to Moguy here, if I do

business with you...

, .I'm doin' business with both of y'all.

He does the eyeballin', you the billfold?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well you don't make it sound too flattering,

but more or less, yes.

None of the white men in the room have any respect for a white man who

needs a nigger to tell him what time of day it is.

Candie turns his attention back to Django.

So Bright Boy,.Moguy here tells me you

looked over my African flesh, and were

none too impressed.

we see. Django looking over THREE MANDINGOS..

BACK TO CLEO CLUB

Not for top dollar.

Well then we got nothing more to talk

about. You wanna buy a beat ass nigger

from me, those are the beat ass niggers

I wanna sell.

He don't wanna buy the niggers you wanna

sell. He wants the nigger you don't

wanna sell.

I don't sell the niggers I don't wanna

sell.

Dr.Schultz chimes in thoughtfully;-

Dr.SCHULTZ

You won't sell your best. You won't even

sell your second best. But your third

best... .you don't want to.sell him... .But if

I made you an offer so ridiculous you'd be

forced to consider it... . who knows what

could happen?

What do you consider ridiculous?

Dr.SCHULTZ.

For a truly talented specimen,

."The Right Nigger"..:?

How much would you say, Django?

Twelve thousand dollars.

Calvin Candle takes in the figure.

Gentlemen, you had my curiosity. Now

you got my attention.

TNT -- CLEOPATRA CLUB -- RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Candle, Moguy, Django, Schultz, Bartholomew, Sheba, and Coco eat dinner

in the restaurant. All the men eat thick T-Bones. Coco eats Catfish.

And Sheba uses her fingers to rip apart Crawdads.

How ya like that meat, Bright Boy?

Django's eyes go to Calvin, he nods his approval.

How's your Catfish, dew drop?

Real good Monsieur Candie.

You spend a lot of time around niggers

aside from Freeman here?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Not so much.

Well if'in you did,.you'd know what a

treat this was for 'em. You feel special

Coco?

Yes. sir, Monsieur Candie.

You feel special Bartholomew?

Yes sir, Monsieur Candie.

He looks to Sheba, who's licking her fingers from the Crawdads.

Now Sheba always feels special. Dont'cha?

Yep.

How 'bout you Bright Boy, you feel

special?

Not as special as her.

The table breaks out in laughter.

Well we're leaving bright and early

tomorrow morning, and moving the. whole

kit and caboodle to "Candyland."

You oughta come with us.

Dr.Schultz and Django's eyes meet for a moment.. .so far...so good.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well, that wasn't on the agenda. But I

suppose I could be amenable to that.

How far must we trek?

Oh hardly a ride at all, We'll still be

in Chickasaw County. Five hours.. .tops.

There you can get a look at my best

specimens. Have dinner with my sister

and I. Spend the night at Candyland as

my guest.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Splendid.

Django and Schultz trade looks and small smiles.

EXT - COUNTRY SIDE MISSISSIPPI - DAY

It's the next day and a whole procession is making their way to

"Candyland."

Calvin Candie, Leonide Moguy, Dr.Schultz, Django, and THREE OVERSEERS

(BILLY CRASH, TOMMY GILES, and HOOT PETERS) ride horses.

Bartholomew (now dressed in work clothes) drives a buckboard filled

with'supplies.

FIVE MANDINGOS (Big Fred and Banjo who we already met, plus JOSHUA,

SIDNEY JAMES, and TATUM) recently purchased at the Greenville Auction

walk to their new home, with small bundles of their personal

possessions under their arm. They look like powerful warriors.

THREE OTHER SHIRTLESS MANDINGOS (RODNEY, CHICKEN CHARLY, CHESTER) WHO

WERE THE MANDINGOS FROM Candyland that didn't sell at Greenville are

walking back to Candyland, with their small bundle of personal

possessions under their arms. These poor devil's know their fate is

pretty dismal. Either they'll be sold to the LeQuint Dickey Mining

Company, or they'll be put in some mandingo fight they can't win, like

with Samson, or Stonesipher's dogs.

walks along the road, looks up at Django riding his horse. All the

slaves hate Django because they think he's a black slaver. But

the three heading back to Candyland are even more resentful.

Django with Schultz, earlier, inspecting and rejecting these three.

gives Django a bad eyeball look up on his horse.

DJANGO ON TONY

sees it. He's playing the role of a fucker black slaver, he can't let

that shit stand.

He yells down to the powerless man;

Gotta problem with your eyeball, boy?

Rodney looks away.

No sir.

You want a boot heel in it?

No sir.

Then keep ya damn eyeballs off me!

Flash that bad look at me again,

I'll give ya reason not to like me!

not without difficulty.

Dr.Schultz comes riding Fritz beside him.

Dr.SCHULTZ

How do you like this side of the slave

trade?

Not so much.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Prefer the other side?

I didn't say that.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I've confirmed Broomhilda's at Candyland.

Are you sure it's her?

Dr.SCHULTZ

He didn't call her by name, but she's a

young lady, whip marks on 'her back, and

speaks German. Now while it's not wise to

assume, in this instance, I think it's

pretty safe.

Did you offer to buy her?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I opened the door to my possible interest.

But naturally, sight unseen, I can only be

so interested.

SUDDENLY ...

Calvin Candie comes riding up behind them...

Am I intruding?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Of course not.

I swear you two are cozier then a couple

of cuttle fish.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You'd be surprised what a good

conversationalist Django is.

Oh by now, I don't think that would

surprise meat all.

Candie gives Django a creepy smile.

Around now the audience may start noticing DOG BARKING in the distance.

Dr.SCHULTZ

When do we reach your property?

1?3

You been on it. I own the whole sixty

miles 'fore we get to Candyland.

Candie gets annoyed at the barking dogs.

Excuse me a moment, gentlemen.

him at Billy)

Billy Crash, git up here!

Billy Crash, a hillbilly overseer who's missing his two front teeth,

rides up.

Yeah, Boss?

Find out what that goddamn commotion

is up at the tracker shack!

Right away, Boss.

Billy Crash TEARS UP AHEAD on his horse.

You know, confidentially, just 'tween

us girls, worse things about this

business, ain't the slaves. It's all

the white trash ya gotta deal with.

Like these peckawoods we got riding with

us. These dumb, ignorant, sleazy sonsabitches

ain't good fer nuttin, except kickin' a

niggers ass can't kick back. Yeah, they

holdin' the pretty part of the whip, but

it's just a thin membrane separate 'em.

And don't think they don't know it either.

It's about the only thing these dumbass

motherfuckers do know. But ya need 'em.

Who the hell else ya gonna get to beat a

niggers ass, other than somebody might as

well be a nigger hisself. But these mountain

boys I use as trackers for the runaways,

they the worst. Nothin but a buncha goddamn

inbreed hillbillies. Now like that nigger

gal we was talkin' 'bout. I'm sure it.was

a pain in the ass, but with a lot of

patience, that German lady taught Hildi

how to speak German.

Django hears her name himself. His head does involuntary jerk, but his

i12, emotions betray nothing.

Now these inbred hillbillies, on the other

hand, they can barely speak English. I can't

understand a damn word most of 'em say. You

could teach a plow horse how to make a pot

of coffee, 'fore you teach those fools how

to use a knife and fork. I tell ya, if it

wasn't for catchin' a nigger on the run,

they'd be as useless as tits on a boar hog.

Billy Crash comes riding back.

What the hell's goin on?

They got 'em a runaway.

Who?

EXT - TRACKER SHACK - DAY

A BUNKHOUSE for the FOUR HILLBILLY TRACKERS (they track down runaway

slaves) that live here about forty miles from the Candyland Plantation.

A little dog kennel, looks like a chicken coup, sits next to the

bunkhouse.

The TRACKERS are a hairy, bearded, burly, buck skinned wearing, dirty

long haired lot.

Their Leader is Mr.,STONESIPHER, the other three are STEW, LEX, and

JAKE. The four men could be brothers, or cousins, or father and sons,

or just from the same hollow.

Lex holds two SNARLING GERMAN SHEPHERDS on a leash. Stew one SNARLING

GERMAN SHEPHERD on a leash. And Mr.Stonesipher holds one SNARLING

GERMAN SHEPHERD on a leash, the lead dog, that goes by the name of

MARSHA.

A runaway slave named, D'ARTAGNAN, lies belly down in the dirt,

surrounded by the four vicious dogs, who BARK, GROWL, and SNAP at him.

One look at D'Artagnan tells you he's a mandingo who's been in one

fight too many. One of his eyes have been 'poked out. Big BITES have

been bit out of both his face and neck (by past fights, human bites,

not-the dogs), as well as three fingers have been bit off. Not to

mention he's covered in cuts, like he's been drug through a briar

patch.

The fourth Tracker, JAKE, doesn't engage in the melodrama. He hangs in

the background, CUTTING FIREWOOD with a big axe.

Calvin Candie, Dr.Schultz, Django, and the whole Candie caravan look

down on the runaway slave. Including the five new mandingos, and the three

old mandingos who know D'Artagnan.

Well I'll be, D'Artagnan. Now boy, why do

a fool thing like run off?

I can't fight no more, Monsieur Candie.

Oh yes you can. You might not be able to

win, but your ass can fight. - Mr.Stonesipher,

shut these goddamn dogs up, I can't hear

myself think!

Mr.Stonesipher, yells to Marsha;

Mr.STONESIPHER

Hush now! Marsha! Marsha, hush up!

Marsha, Marsha, hush up!

(to the other

Take these goddamn dogs away from this nigger,

he's just makin' em hungry.

The other two YANK the dogs away from the fallen Black Man.

How long was he loose?

Mr. Stonesipher spits tobacco juice.

Mr.STONESIPHER

A.night. Day. Half the other night.

How far he git off property?

Mr.STONESIPHER

Bout twenty miles off prop. Pretty fer,

considering that limp he got.

Moguy, who was D'Artagnan suppose to fight

Friday?.

(pointing behind him)

One of this new lot.

Well the way he looks now a blind Indian

wouldn't bet 'a bead on 'em.

Boy, you done made yourself as useless as

a tail on a teddy bear.

D'Artagnan starts begging.

Now now, no beggin', no playin' on my

soft heart. You in trouble now, son.

Now you need to understand I'm runnin' a

business. Now I done paid five hundred

dollars for you. And when I pay five

hundred dollars, I expect to get five

fights outta a nigga 'fore he roll over

and play dead. You've fought three fights.

I won every one.

Well, yes you did. But that last one, you

muddied the line between winning and losing.

Calvin climbs down off of his horse, and walks to the captured runaway

on the ground.

But the fact remains, I pay five hundred

dollars, I want five fights. So what

about my five hundred dollars? You gonna

reimburse me?

The Whites (except for Schultz) laugh.

This whole spectacle is making Dr.Schultz sick to his stomach.

Not Django ... . he's seen this little drama play out many times before.

The three returning mandingos, Rodney, Chicken Charly, and Chester,

watch their fellow doomed servant pay the price for running away.

The five new mandingos watch Calvin Candie's treatment of D'Artagnan to

know what to expect from their new home.

Bartholomew on the buckboard looks at the captured runaway like, poor

bastard.

Calvin prods further.

You even know what reimburse means?

The Whites laugh.

Then SUDDENLY ...

.The German Speaks;

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'll reimburse you.

All eyes turn to Dr.Schultz.

Including Django's, whose eyes narrow at the doctor.

Calvin Candie uses the occasion to perform a slow dramatic turn in the

direction of the good German.

You will?

Removing his long brown leather billfold from his suit jacket pocket.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes.

You'll pay five hundred dollars for a

one eyed Ole'Joe, ain't fit to push a

broom?

Django's voice cuts through the Mississippi heat.

No he won't.

All eyes turn to Django.

He's just tired'of you toyin' with him is

all. And for that matter, so am I. But we

ain't payin' a penny for that pickaninny,

we ain't got no use for 'em. Ain't that

right, Doc?

Dr.Schultz realizes he's just done the one thing he's always preached

to Django you can never do..BREAK CHARACTER. The doctor puts his

billfold back in his suit coat pocket.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You heard 'em.

The Hillbilly Trackers stare up at the black man on the horse in the

green jacket, slack jawed.

!` Even the one chopping wood in the BG stops his chopping.

You'll hafta excuse Mr.Stonesipher's slack

jawed gaze. He ain't never seen a nigger

like you ever in his life..Ain't that right,

Mr. Stonesipher?

Mr.. Stonesipher., SPITS.

Mr.STONESIPHER

That's right.

Calvin steps up to Django on his horse. Looking up at the black man,

Calvin challenges Django to a staring contest.

Well now since you won't pay a penny for

this pickaninny, you won't mind me handlin'

this nigger however I see fit?

He's your nigger.

Mr.Ston.esipher... .let Marsha and her

bitches send D'Artagnan to nigger heaven.

Mr.STONESIPHER

Marsha...git 'em!

The other Trackers let loose of the leashes holding the German

Shepherds back.

The DOGS CHARGE towards D'Artagnan on his knees...

all react to the sight of the dogs being let loose.

The DOGS ATTACK D'ARTAGNAN ...

As we HEAR the ATTACK ...

Candie.staring contest with Django...

Django, who expected nothing less and has seen worse, doesn't blink as

the runaway slave is torn to bits by canine teeth ...

The other Mandingos are scared sick at what they see.

The Hillbilly Trackers root the dogs on.

Dr.Schultz has never seen a man torn apart by dogs before, and he

appears not to enjoy it.

Calvin, without blinking, shifts his eyes toward Dr.Schultz, then back

i12-. to Django.

Your boss looks a little green around

the gills for a blood sport like

nigger fightin'?

As D'Artagnan's SCREAMS and Marsha's GROWLS continue OFF SCREEN.

Naw, he just ain't use to seein' a man

ripped apart by dogs, is all.

But you are use to it?

Well, him bein' German an' all, I'm

a little more use to American's then

he is. Now Monsieur Candie, whenever you're

ready, we rode five hours so you could

show off your stock. Let's git to it.

Cause as of now, if he's a example, I'

ain't impressed.

Calvin...BLINK...

Saying nothing, Monsieur Candie turns his back to Django, climbs up on

his horse, then looks at the black man.

Follow me.

The whole caravan rides off as the dogs continue to tear D'Artagnan

apart.

EXT - THE GROUNDS OF CANDYLAND - DAY

The caravan starts to approach Candyland. Calvin Candie and his sister

own the fourth biggest cotton plantation in the state of Mississippi.

As the parade gets closer we see fields of cotton, and fields of SLAVES

picking it.

The audience might of been expecting Candyland to be a hell on earth,

Auschwitz, Andersonville, Yuma Prison, a Mexican prison in a Sergio

Corbucci Spaghetti western ...

INSTEAD ... . CANDYLAND is very beautiful. The fields of cotton, the way

the trees hang green vines over everything. It's full of nature and

natures vibrant colors, and a broiling hot sun to see it all in.

One of the cottonpickers in the field, DOBIE, looks up, and sees Django

in his cool green corduroy jacket, badass cowboy hat, on top of Tony.

He taps the shoulder of another cotton picker (ORWELL), and points out

Django.

All of a sudden all the bent over backs in the field, straighten up to

get a better look at the black riding a horse.

Django looks back matching their stare.

EXT - SLAVE VILLAGE - DAY

The caravan rolls through the shack/cabin village the slaves live in.

As the parade rolls through all the SLAVES snap to attention, and bow

(very formally) as Monsieur Candie rides past. A KING among his SUBJECTS,

a PATRON with his PEONS, a FATHER amongst his CHILDREN, a SHEPHERD

among his SHEEP.

KIDS playing in the dirt get up and run to Calvin on his horse.

Candie calls the kids by name, takes out a bag of jelly beans, and

begins tossing them about.

The Kids scramble in the dirt for the bright colored candy.

This is Calvin Candie in his element, at his happiest.

THEN ...

.DJANGO rides by.

The CARAVAN moves from the slave village to the White Village the

overseers and their family live in on the plantation grounds.

Other then the switch of white faces for black, it's pretty much the

same village.

And they too see Django ... . WOW!

The Caravan enters the road that leads to the front of the Plantation,

or The Big House as everyone calls it.

To the left of the Big House is big wooden ARENA built for his Friday

night nigger fights.

All the HOUSE SLAVES (the domestic slaves that work for the Candie

family in the Big House), and WHITE WORKERS (overseers and stray farm

hands) come out to greet the caravan.

They all greet Monsieur Calvin Candie, who naturally leads the

procession, as if he's Alexander The Great returning from the wars.

As the caravan comes to a stop in front of the Big House, it creates a

huge dust cloud behind it.

Calvin's widowed sister LARA LEE CANDIE-FITZWILLY, an attractive

i12. fortyish, strawberry blonde southern belle, steps out on the porch of

the Big House to greet her brother.

Directly above Lara Lee, on the third floor balcony over hang, out.

steps...

eyeing Calvin and the approaching caravan.

Who's STEPHEN? Stephen is a very old black man, who with his bald pate,

and tufts of white curly hair on the sides, looks like a character out

of Dickens - if Dickens wrote about House Niggers in the Antebellum

South. -

Stephen has been Calvin's slave since he was a little boy. And in

(almost) every way is the 2nd most powerful person at Candyland.

Like the characters Basil Rathbone would play in swashbucklers, evil,

scheming, intriguing men, always trying to influence and manipulate power

for their own self interest. Well that describes Stephen to a tee.

The Basil Rathbone of House Niggers.

The old Man watches the caravan and the trailing dust cloud approach.

THEN...

Out of the dust cloud ...EMERGE DJANGO and SCHULTZ... . on TONY and FRITZ.

All the Candylanders see Django, dressed like he is, up on the horse,

and for a moment don't know what to think.

Lara Lee, like her brother, is both surprised and intrigued.

As Stephen peers down from his perch at the nigger in the green jacket,

it's hate at first sight. Stephen heads downstairs, he walks with a,

limp.

All the caravan riders are still up on their horses. Calvin sees

Stephen limping towards them, and greets him with a big how do you do;

Hello Stephen my boy!

Yeah yeah yeah, hello my ass - who's

this nigger up on that nag?

Oh Stephen, why so ornery, you miss me?

Yeah, I miss you like I miss.a rock in my

shoe. Like I said, who's this nigger, up

on that nag?

DJANGO'S VOICE (OS)

Hey Snowball.

: Stephen looks up at Django on Tony.

If you wanna know who I am, or the name of

my horse, you ask me.

Just'who the hell you callin' Snowball,

horse boy? I'll yank your ass of that

goddamn'nag, so goddamn fast - in the mud.

Whoa, whoa, whoa, Stephen, let's keep it

funny. Django's a Freeman.

Stephen jerks a thumb up towards Django.

This nigger, here?

That nigger there. Let me at least introduce

the two of. you. Django, this is another

cheeky black bugger like yourself, Stephen.

Stephen, this is Django. You two should

hate each other.

Stephen uses'the special privilege he and he alone enjoys amongst the

blacks at Candyland.

Calvin, who the hell is this nigger you

feel the need to entertain?

Django and his friend in grey, Dr.Schultz

are customers, and they are our guests

Stephen. And you - you old decrepit bastard...

.are to show them every hospitality.

Do you understand that?

I don't know why I gotta -

You don't hafta know why, do you

understand?

Yeah yeah yeah, I understand just fine.

Good. They're spending the night. Go up

in the guest bedrooms and get two ready.

He's gonna stay in the Big House?

Stephen, he's a slaver. It's different.

In the Big House?

You gotta problem with that?

I don't gotta problem, unless you gotta

problem with burin' the bed, the sheets,

and the pillow cases once this black ass

motherfuckers gone!

That's my problem, they're mine to burn.

Your problem, right now, is making a

good impression. And I want you to start

solving that problem right now, and git

them rooms ready.

The Old Man looks up at his Master, and says;

Yes sir, Monsieur Candie.

Stephen limps away to the guest rooms, muttering to'himself.

Lara Lee and her ever present shadow, a FAT MAMMY named CORA, comes up

to her brother on his horse.

Dr.Schultz, this attractive southern belle

is my widowed sister, may I present to you,

Lara Lee Candie-Fitzwilly.

Lara Lee does a southern lady bow.

Dr.Schultz lifts his bowler hat, and nods in a grand manner.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I am Dr.King Schultz, this is my 2nd

Django,

(Django tips his hat)

and these are our horses, Fritz and Tony.

Both Fritz and Tony do the head bow.

Dr.SCHULTZ

And it is our great delight to encounter

this flaming rose.

Well aren't you the charming gentlemen.

You're not from around here, are you?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Actually I'm from a far off land,

Dusseldorf, to be exact.

These two are in the market for a fightin'

nigger. So I thought I'd invite 'em down,

show 'em my stock.

We'll all have dinner tonight, right?

Half the reason I invited them. I thought

you'd find.them as intriguing as I do

little sister.

Lara Lee looks up at Django, and smiles.

All of a sudden THREE WHITE RIDERS ride up on horses, a older one, and

two tough looking younger ones. The'older one is the Cap't of the

Overseers, ACE WOODY, and his two assistants BROWN and JINGLE BELLS

CODY. While Ace is dressed for work on a farm, both Brown and Jingle

Bells Cody are peacocks who wear cool cowboy outfits.

As Calvin Candie watches the three riders approach, he turns to

Dr.Schultz and Django, and says;

You know since I started fightin' niggers

about eleven years ago, it's been a new

lease on'life. And the man ridin' up here

now is the man responsible for all my

success.

Ace and his boys pull their horses up, kicking up dust.

Through the dust Ace, Brown, and Jingle Bells Cody eyeball Django and

Schultz.

Howdy Ace.

This here is my Overseer .Cap't, and

nigger fight trainer extraordinaire,

Ace Woody.

Pointing at the two shadows that flank Ace Woody.

And that's Brown and that's Jingle Bells

Cody.

Ace, this here is Dr.Ring Schultz, and

Django Freeman, they're big customers with

big pockets wanna buy a big nigger. So I

brought 'em out here so you could give

'em a little display of our African flesh.

Ace takes off his hat, bows from his horse, welcoming them.

Welcome to Candyland, gentlemen.

Astride their horses Brown and Jingle Bells Cody just make faces at

Django.

Ace's attention goes to the five new mandingos.just walked from

Greenville to here.

These the new chickens?

Yes siree bob.

How many you get?

One, two, three, four, five.

Five real strong bucks.

How many you get rid of?

We still got three left.

Ace looks to see who came back from the auction.

Leo Moguy chimes in;

I already wired the LeQuint Dickey people,

they'll be here tomorrow.

Ace turns to Brown.

Get 'em away from the others. Put 'em in

the pen till tomorrow.

Brown with his horse, yells, chases, and herds the three men away into

the slave pen.

Ace yells from his horse down to the five new mandingo arrivals, Big

Fred, Banjo, Sidney James, Tatum,.and Joshua.

Y'all stand over there and make a line!

They do.

Ace climbs down from off his horse.

Cody stays in his saddle, circling the black men with his horse.

Everybody, including Django and Dr.Schultz, watch the show.

Ace'Woody walks up and down the line looking at the new men.

Candie, sitting comfortably up on his horse, says;

What do you think?

I think you lookin' for niggers to push

a plow, 'dem your boys.

Candie rolls his eyes.

What's wrong with them?

Hold it...hold it, you done bought

r em, let me look at 'em.

Unimpressed Ace Woody continues to examine them.

Okay, how 'bout that one, did you

buy that one?

Which one?

What you mean, which one? The one I'm

pointing at, that one.

Actually, that one was purchased by

our mister Moguy.

You bought him?

Yes I did.

Why?

I like his prospects.

His prospects? Now you know Mr..Moguy,

I ain't a educated fella like yourself.

Remind me again what prospects means?

Hope for the future.

Jerking a thumb towards the slave in question.

You got hope for his future?

I did.

Well I don't.

Ace walks over to the slave in question.

What's your name, boy?

The mandingo says;

Sidney James, sir.

So long Sidney James.

Ace takes the peacemaker out of the holster on his hip, and SHOOTS

Sidney James point blank in the belly.

Everybody reacts.

Especially the four other mandingos standing next to him.

Sidney James rolls in the dirt, screaming and holding his bleeding gut.

Till Cody puts a bullet in his head, putting him out of his misery.

Moguy, shakes his head, "Typical," he thinks.

Django and Schultz, on their horses next. to Candid, watch.

Ace looks up at his boss.

Boss Candie, which one did you buy?

Well to me the pick of the litter is

Big Fred over there.

This one over here?

Yes.

You Fred?

A very scared Fred answers.

Yes, sir.

Well good to meet'cha Fred, I'm'Ace Woody,

I'm a man of influence 'round here. Now

Fred am I mistaken, or were you already in

a kurfuffle?

I had 'em fight one of Amerigo's niggers

last night.

How is of Amerigo?

His nigger lost.

Really? You won?

Yes, sir.

Wup'ed his ass?

Beat 'em to death.

Smiling impressively at Big Fred.

Really?

He did have fifteen pounds on 'em,

but still, he still beat his ass

to death.

You did?

Yes, sir.

Good job, boy. Got any more wins in ya?

Yes, sir.

Ace gives Cody a slight head nod, and Cody SHOOTS Big Fred in the back.

Candie acts out mock frustration.

The remaining three mandingos jump a mile.

Now why did you do that?

He won his last fight last night.

Ace puts his eyes on the three remaining mandingos

Those of you with exceptional ability

will find it ain't so bad here. Those of

you who don't possess exceptional ability,

will wish you did.

Ace looks up to Cody on his horse.

Run 'em over to the Arena. Git 'em doin

push ups. First one gives out, shoot 'em

in the head.

Welcome to Candyland, boys!

Cody runs the terrified mandingos to the arena.

Candie leans over to Schultz and says;

We only get about two out of every batch

of five fighters we buy. But those two

tend to be lucky.

Ace Woody hops back up on his horse.

You know Mr.Woody, I'm beginning to think

that you don't trust my judgement?

Ace Woody just smiles at his boss, and says;

Oh you know I always trust your judgement,

Boss Candie...eventually.

He rides off.

Stephen limps back to the action.

Ahhh, Stephen my boy, rooms ready?

All ready for your guest and his nigger.

Candie'shakes his head in mock frustration.

Stephen, you're incorrigible.

Gentlemen, let Stephen show you to your

rooms.

There you can lie down and rest up

for a couple of hours. Then we'll have

some lemonade, and I'll show off some of

my finer specimens.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Splendid.

Both Dr.Schultz and Django climb down from their horses.

Candie looks to a black little stable boy of about eight named TIMMY.

Timmy boy, go take their horses for 'em.

Fix 'em up at the stable, give 'em a load

of oats.

Django hands the boy the reigns.

That's Fritz, this is Tony. You take good

care of 'em now.

Yes, sir.

Django takes an apple out of his saddle bag, and hands it to the boy.

Once he's in the stable, give 'em that.

He reaches back in the saddle and pulls out another one.

Give that one to Fritz.

Timmy leads the horses away.

The two visitors start to follow Stephen to their rooms, when

Dr.Schultz pretends to remember something;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Oh, Monsieur Candie, about that matter about

the nigger girl we were talking about?

Nigger girl?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I believe you said she spoke German?

Oh Yes, Hildi, what about her?

,oz.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Do you think before the demonstration you

could send her around to my room?

I don't see why not.

Stephen, when you get through showing

them to their rooms, go fetch Hildi.

I want her cleaned up and smellin' nice,

and sent over to Dr.Schultz's room.

Stephen has to be the bearer of bad news.

Actually... . Monsieur Candie... . there's

What?

Hildi's in The Hot Box.

This gets Django's, Schultz's, and Candie's attention.

What's she doin' there?

What 'cha think she doin' in The Hot Box,

she bein punished.

What she do?

She ran away again.

Jesus Christ, how many people ran away

when I was gone?

Two.

When did she go?

Last night. They brought her back this

morning.

How bad did Stonesipher's dogs tear her up?

Django's hand falls to the butt of his smoke wagon. If they sicked

those dogs on his angel, he's going to just kill all these

motherfuckers right now.

Lucky for her they were busy lookin' for

D'Artagnan's ass. Brown and Cody went out

lookin' for her and found her. She a little

beat up, but she did that to herself.

Runnin' through them damn bushes.

Django's hand moves away from his gun.

How long she been in the box?

What'cha think, all goddamn day! Little

fool got ten more days to go.

Take her out.

Take her out? Why!

Because I said so, that's why. Hildi is

my nigger. Dr.Schultz is my guest. Southern

hospitality dictates I make her available

to him.

But Monsieur Candie, she just ran away?

Jesus Christ Stephen, what's the point of

havin' a nigger speaks German if-you can't

wheel 'em out when you have a German guest?

I realize it's inconvenient. Still, take

her out.

(to Cora and

Lara Lee would you and Cora be responsible

for getting her cleaned up and presentable

for Dr.Schultz?

The overseers,'Tommy Giles and Hoot Peters go to The Hot.Box. While

Billy Crash goes to the well to draw a bucket of water.

Django watches them walk to The Hot Box.

Dr.Schultz's eyes shift to Django, to watch him watch this.

Stephen notices Django's interest in both The Hot Box and whoever's

sizzling in it.

The HOT BOX

itself is a large IRON SOLITARY CONFINEMENT CELL DOOR (from Yuma

Prison) built into the ground. They put a key in the lock, and the two

men lift the heavy iron door open.

REVEALING: A naked Broomhilda broiling in a small coffin like iron box

dug into the ground.

Broomhilda reacts to the sudden burst of blinding sunshine.

WHEN ...

Billy Crash TOSSES the bucket of water on her.

Django watches this.

DJANGO'S POV:.From his wide shot perspective we see them yank the NAKED

BROOMHILDA (incoherent) out of the hole.

REVENGE MUSIC PLAYS

as we move into a Sergio Leone CU of DJANGO'S FACE.

Stephen breaks the mood.

You comin', or you wanna sleep in that

little box?

Django turns his back on the naked Broomhilda and follows Stephen and

Dr.Schultz up the front steps of The Big House.

INT - THE BIG HOUSE - DAY

Stephen leads the two guests up the big prominent sweeping staircase in

the entry way of The Big House. Then down the hallway with the guest

rooms. Dr.Schultz is shown his guest room by Stephen. Schultz enters

the room and shuts the door behind him. Stephen takes Django to the

room next door, opens the door, and leads him in.

INT - DJANGO'S GUEST ROOM - DAY

A guest room with a big feather bed, dresser drawer with a flowery

pitcher of water and basin on top of it. A little bedside table with a

lamp and a tiny bell on it.

This one's yours, boy. That bed's damn

nice too.

Django walks over to the window, parts the curtains and peers out.

Broomhilda's gone. As he looks through the glass, snotty Stephen

rattles on in the background.

Feel free to touch anything you want,

cause we burnin' all this shit once you

gone. I'll have somebody knock on the

door when the demonstration ready.

Django sits down on the bed.

Stephen turns to leave.

Not so fast.

I got more important things to do then

jaw with you.

Nigger, when I say stop you plant roots.

Both the words and the tone stop Stephen dead. He turns around.

This tiny bell on this little table...

.is this for you? I ring this, you

do fer me?

Me or somebody.

Django reaches over and picks up the bell.

(a soft) DING-A-LING

What 'cha want?

I want you to pour some water in that

bowl for my wash up.

Stephen does what he's told, but with attitude.

Django shuts the guest room door so the two men are alone.

Once Stephen's done, Django stands up from the bed.

Gimmie.

Stephen hands him the basin full of water.

Django takes it from him.

Then throws the water in Stephen's face.

The dripping wet old slave can do nothing against this free man.

Whatsamatter Stephen, you don't like

that?

Django takes his hand and SLAPS the old man hard across the face

knocking him to the floor;

That's my kinda bell ringin'. Git up.

he does - Django SLAPS HIM TO THE FLOOR again.

Then Django sits back down on the bed, looking at the old man on the

floor below his knees.

I've known me House Niggers like you my

whole life. Play your dog tricks with your

Massa'. Ya' lip off to him every now an'

then, as long as ya' keep it funny. He

rolls his eyes and puts up with it, and

all the white folks think it's so cute.

Meanwhile you got all these niggas round

here hoppin' and jumpin' to stay on your

good side. Well this time Snowball, you

gonna listen to me. You got anymore sass

you wanna sling my way, before they give

us a mandingo demonstration, I'm gonna

give this whole motherfuckin plantation

a demonstration, of ME beatin' the BLACK

off your ass. I will make you drop your

drawers, I'll take off my belt, and I will

Wup' your bare ass with it, in front of

every nigga on this plantation. And after

I do that, let's see you play the rooster

round here.

Calvin wouldn't. let you do it.

Oh that's right, he gives you first name

privileges... . ain't that cute. Sass me

me again nigger, see what happen'.

Stephen lying on the floor, bites his tongue.

That's what I thought. Now git outta"here.

With as much dignity as he can muster, Stephen stands up.

Before he leaves, Django tells him;,

When I ring this bell, you better come

a runnin'. You - not nobody else. While

I'm on this property, you my nigger

Snowball.

Stephen leaves.

Django lies down on the bed. He covers his eyes with his arm.

A door joins Django and Schultz's room. The adjoining door opens, and

Schultz stands there.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Was that wise?

Django doesn't remove his arm from.his eyes.

He ain't tellin' nobody 'bout that.

That's all that needs to be said.

INT - HALLWAY (BIG HOUSE) - DAY

domestic maid uniform) Broomhilda stand outside Dr.Schultz's door,

after Calvin's sister raps on it.

Dr.Schultz opens the door.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Hello ladies.

Dr.Schultz, may I introduce to you,

Hildi. Hildi, this is Dr.Schultz, he

speaks German.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I've been informed you do as well.

It would be my, pleasure to speak with you

in German.

Schultz acts for the benefit of Miss Lara's astonishment.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Astonishing.

Please come inside Fraulein.

She does, and just'as Lara Lee is to say something, Schultz says,

"Thank You very much," and closes the door in her face. Miss Lara looks

to her Mammy, and the two women head off nonplussed.

INT - SCHULTZ'S GUEST ROOM (BIG HOUSE) - LATE AFTERNOON

With the door closed, Schultz turns to the weak, frightened,

disoriented girl.

He gives her a pleasant smile.

Dr.SCHULTZ

They call you Hildi, but your real name

is Broomhilda, isn't it?

Yes. How do you know that?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Stands to reason who ever taught you

German would also give you a German name.

Can I pour you a glass of water,

Broomhilda?

Hearing her name being spoke properly for the first time in awhile, not

to mention with a German accent, does have a bit of a calming influence

on the frightened girl.

WE CUT TO DJANGO

on the other side of the adjoining door, listening, waiting for his cue

to present himself.

BACK TO BROOMHILDA AND Dr.SCHULTZ

As Dr.Schultz calmly pours the young lady a glass of water, he begins

talking to her in GERMAN SUBTITLED IN ENGLISH;

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'm aware you haven't spoken German in

a long while. So I'll talk slowly.

I'm only speaking German to you now,

Broomhilda, in case Candie's people are

listening to us. Myself and a mutual

friend of ours, have gone through a lot

of trouble, and rode a lot of miles, to

find you fraulein - to rescue you.

He hands her a tall clear glass of water.

She looks at him weird, rescue me?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Please drink.

She absentmindedly obeys.

Dr.SCHULTZ

(.GERMAN).

Now it's myself and our mutual friend's

intention to take you away from here

forever.

I don't got any friends.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes you do.

Who?

Dr.SCHULTZ

I can't tell you. Our mutual friend has a

flair for the dramatic, and he wants to

surprise you.

!!0

Where is he?

He points at the adjoining door.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Standing right behind that door.

Her head moves in the direction of the door.

He looks to the young woman;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Promise me you won't scream?

She nods her head, yes.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Say, I promise.

I promise.

Dr.Schultz moves to the door, and lightly raps on it.

The door knob turns.

The door slowly opens revealing...

He smiles at her, and says;

Obviously a pet name between them.

Broomhilda goes into a bit of shock...

the water spills on the floor ...

The two men look at the woman on the floor, then at each other;

Dr.SCHULTZ

You silver tongued devil you.

WE DISSOLVE to later, as we see Dr.Schultz and Django explain what-

they're doing there, who they're pretending to be, and what their plan

is to Broomhilda. We hear a woman whistle a soft pretty tune on the

soundtrack. It's not a happy tune.. .per se. But it's pretty, and

vaguely optimistic ...

WE DISSOLVE TO The SLAVE PEN

The doomed men who didn't sell at Greenville, brooding Rodney and

Chester and Chicken Charly, spend their last night at Candyland

sleeping under the stars in The Slave Pen. The same whistling tune

continues over this scene.

Rodney sees, The whole slave selling and buying group, Django,

Dr.Schultz, Candie, Bartholomew, Moguy, Ace Woody, Brown and Cody, and

the Overseers, walk across the plantation grounds on their way to

The Arena. Laughin' and joshin' all the way. The hatred Rodney feels

for that group of men burns inside him like a red hot poker.

A study in powerless fury.

DISSOLVE TO BROOMHILDA SETTING THE DINNER TABLE

in the dining room of The Big House with its knives, spoons and forks.

She's all by herself as she goes through this duty.

The whistling tune we've been listening to has been coming from

Broomhilda whistling as she sets the table.

Suddenly out of the darkness of the background appears Stephen.

What you. whistlin', girl?

Broomhilda stops whistling and spins surprised in Stephen's direction.

What was you whistlin'?

Oh nuttin'.

You weren't whistlin' nothin', you were

whistlin' somethin'. What'cha whistlin'?

I dunno. Somethin' I heard. I don't know

no.name.

It's kinder pretty.

She doesn't say anything in return.

That was a compliment.

Thank you.

Stephen steps out of the shadows into the light closer to Broomhilda.

I'm just sayin', two days ago you wus' in

such misery here, you hadda run off. So you

run off, we catch your ass an' drag you back.

Then we stick your bare ass to sizzle in

The Hot Box for' 'bout ten hours. Now here

you are two days later, whistlin' while you

work. I'm just sayin', I.wouldn' think you'd

have a hellva lot to whistle 'bout.

.I'm jus' sayin'.

He watches the effect his words have on Broomhilda's face.

I'm done here, may I be excused?

Yes you may.

She moves off to another part of the house.

He watches her shuffle off.

INT - DINING ROOM (BIG HOUSE) - NIGHT

Later that evening, Django and a lot of other white people (Calvin

Candie, Lara Lee, Moguy, and Dr.Schultz) sat around the dinner table.

They are being served by the black people we've come to know at

Candyland (Stephen, Cora, and because Dr.Schultz likes her Broomhilda).

Along with an army of DOMESTIC SLAVES acting as wait service.

Knowing Django's a slaver, and for his dinner table privileges, the

Domestic Slaves despise Django.

Even Broomhilda will be shocked to hear him speak like a slaver, even

though they obviously gave her a heads up on their masquerade.

We pick up the conversation in mid-negotiation.

"5.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Look Monsieur Candle, they were all fine

specimens, no doubt about it. But the

best three, by far, were Sampson, Goldie,

and Eskimo Joe. - By the way, why's he

called Eskimo Joe?

Oh you never know how these nigger nicknames

get started. His name was Joe-...maybe one

day he said he was cold.. .who knows?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Irregardless, we all know Samson's your

best, and you'll never sell him and I can

see why, he's a champion.

All three are champions.

Django contradicts, as he chews his steak;

Samson's the champion. The other two

are pretty good.

All the Domestic Slaves around the table STIFFEN at witnessing Django

contradict Calvin Candie.

Including Broomhilda, who's wielding the Gravy Boat. After Django says

that, while in shock, she over pours beef gravy on Lara Lee's mashed

potatoes.

Hildi!

Broomhilda snaps back.

Instead of getting angry, Candle seems to reflect on that analysis,

then issues his own appraisal;

Can Eskimo Joe whip Sampson, no. Can he

take Goldie, probably not - Goldie's the

best dirty fightin' nigger I ever saw. But as

long as you don't put 'em up against those

two., Eskimo Joe will whip any niggers ass.

Maybe.

The Domestics FREEZE for a jerky second when Django says that.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You must understand, Monsieur Candie, while

admittedly a .neophyte in the nigger fight

game, I do have a bit of a background in

the European traveling circus. Hence, I

have big ideas when it comes to presentation.

I need something more then just a big nigger.

He needs to have panache. A sense of showmanship.

I want to be able to . bill. him as. The Black Hercules.

I said., and I quote; "I would pay top dollar

for the, right nigger." Now I'm not saying

Eskimo Joe is the wrong nigger - per se ...

but is he right as rain ... ?

Everyone waits for Calvin's response. He milks the moment by taking a

sip of his mint julep, then says;

Dr.Schultz, i will have you know, there

is no one in the nigger fight game that

appreciates the value of showmanship

more then, Monsieur Calvin J. Candie. But

one must not forget the most important

thing in the nigger fight game.

A nigger that can win fights. That should

be your first, second, third, four, and

fifth concern. After you have that, and

you know you have that, then, you can

start to implement a grande design. But

since I enjoy oldest man 'at the table

status - beating Moguy by one year for

that honor allow the old sage to advise,

first things first.

Broomhilda comes around with a bowl of string green beans.

Dr.Schultz says something pleasant to her in German..

She smiles, and says something pleasant back.

I see you two gettin' on?

Dr.Schultz breaks into a wide grin;

Dr.SCHULTZ

.Famously.

Monsieur Candie, you can't imagine what

it's like not to hear you native tongue

for four years.

Hell, I can't imagine two weeks in Boston.

Everybody at the table chuckles.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I can't express the joy I felt conversing

in my mother tongue. And Broomhilda is a

charming conversation companion.

As Broomhilda holds the bowl of green beans for Moguy, Lara Lee notices

how Django and Broomhilda look and try not to look at each other.

Stephen enters the room with a fresh mint julep for Monsieur Candie.

I don't know doctor, you can lay on all

the German sweet talk you want, but it

looks like this ponys got big eyes for

Django.

Lara Lee has no idea how right she is, but when she said it, all three,

Django, Broomhilda, and Schultz, involuntarily jerk.

AND ...

.STEPHEN sees it.

Schultz covers the jerk with more of his verbal gobbilty gook.

Except for Stephen, no one else was the wiser.

Broomhilda takes her greenbeans and leaves the dining room for the

kitchen.

Stephen watches her go, then looks at Django, then hands Candie his

mint julep, and goes into a broad routine for the table's benefit.

Stephen, you're amazing. I haven't finished

a drink in this house in twenty years.

When a man likes a cold drink, a man likes

a COLD drink.

Chuckle... . chuckle...

Did you overhear that joke I said about

me spending two weeks in Boston

You don't have any idea the work I do

to see food gets on the table.

What does that hafta do with the price of

Tea in China?

You think when I'm in that kitchen, I got

nothin' better to do then listen in here

to you tellin' unfunny jokes?

Chuckle... . chuckle...

What? They laughed!

Of course they laughed, their parents

raised them right. When they're a guest

in somebody's house, and the master of

of the house thinks he's- funny, you

suppose to laugh. They'd be rude not to.

Chuckle... .chuckle...

They play their little comedy routine for all it's worth.

No it was really funny,

wasn't it?

Now what do you expect these people to

say? What you need to do is stop

embarrassing your guest.

Everybody don't laugh at him, you're being

polite, I understand, you mean well, but

it just encourages him.

Chuckle-chuckle...

As the white folks chuckle, Stephen moves back into the kitchen.

TNT - KITCHEN (BIG HOUSE) - NIGHT

Once Stephen enters the kitchen, his smile melts away, and he locks

eyes on Broomhilda. He moves over to her.

You know that nigger?

/i12 She spins around.

Who?

Don't stall me bitch, you know who?

At the table? I don't know him.

STEPHEN.

You don't know him?

No.

You wouldn't lie to me now, would you?

She shakes her head, no.

Stephen looks at her skeptical.

Okay, if you say so.

BACK TO DINNER TABLE

Pick it up again in mid-negotiation.

Eskimo Joe's a quality nigger, no doubt

about it. But if it was my money, I

wouldn't pay twelve thousand dollars

for him.

Dr.SCHULTZ

What would your price be?

Well, if I ,was inclined to be generous,.

and I don't know why I would be inclined

to be generous... . nine thousand ... . maybe.

Candie's lawyer chimes in.

But the real question is, not how much

he cost, but how much he can earn?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Django?

In a years time, seven or eight fights -

outside of Mississippi - where his Candyland

pedigree weren't well known - Virginia...

Georgia -- all goes well ...twenty to twenty

one thousand dollars.

Precisely Bright Boy, good on ya. Any way

you cut that cake, that spells profit.

Not to, mention a years worth of action at

the big table in a blood sport with a

winner nigger. However let me reclarify

how this whole negotiation came about.

It wasn't me who came to you to sell a

nigger, it was you who approached me to

buy one. Now that nine thousand dollar

figure Bright Boy was banding about,

ain't too far off from right. And if I

wanted to sell Eskimo Joe for that, I

could sell 'em any day of the week.

But like you said in Greenville doctor,

I don't wanna sell 'em. It was only your

ridiculous offer of twelve thousand

dollars that would make me consider it.

Dr.Schultz considers'Calvin Candie's words, then suddenly says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

You know Monsieur Candie... . you do possess

the power of persuasion.

Candie smiles at that remark.

Then SUDDENLY Schultz SLAPS the table hard with his hand, and says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

Why not! Monsieur Candie, you have a deal,

Eskimo Joe, twelve thousand dollars!

The White people at the table get very happy.

Dr.Schultz continues;

Dr.SCHULTZ

However, that is a tremendous amount of

money. And the way you have your Mr.Moguy,

I have a lawyer, a persnickety man named

Tuttle. And I would need my man to draw

up a legal contract before I would feel

comfortable exchanging that amount of

money for flesh. Not to mention having

Eskimo Joe examined by a physician of my

choosing. So say I return in about five

days time with my Mr.Tuttle. And then my

Mr.Tuttle and your Mr.Moguy can hash out

the finer points between themselves.

Splendid.

Stephen, time for dessert!

Stephen, Cora, Broomhilda, and the other Domestics come out of the

kitchen to clear away the dirty dishes.

Broomhilda goes to Calvin.

Can I take away your dishes, Monsieur Candle?

Yes you may, Hildi.

She begins gathering the dirty dishes.

Candie looks up at her as she works.

So Hildi, how you like servin at the big

table in the big house?

I like it a lot Monsieur Candle.

It's a lot better then sizzling in that

hot box, or draggin' your ass through a

bramble bush, ain't it?

Yes 'em.

With Candie interrogating Broomhilda, Django tenses up.

Stephen clocks this.

Stephen decides to test Django's reaction.

You know Monsieur Candle, the doctor might

be interested in seein' Hildi's "peeled"

back. Seein' as he don't see many niggers

where he from.

When you was alone with Hildi here, didja

just speak German, or did ya git her

clothes off?

!20

Dr.SCHULTZ

We just spoke.

So you haven't seen her back?

Dr.SCHULTZ

No I haven't.

Then Stephen's right, you would probably

find this interesting. Hildi, take off

your dress, and show us your back.

Django hears this.

Broomhilda instinctively shoots a look to Django.

Stephen clocks it.

Calvin, I just got her all dressed up

and looking nice.

But Lara Lee, Dr.Schultz is from Dusseldorf,

they don't got niggers there. And he's a

man of medicine. I'm sure it would

fascinate him, the niggers endurance for

pain. I mean Hildi got something like

fifteen lashes on her back. Lara Lee get

one, she'd lose her mind. These niggers

are tough, no doubt about it.

Calvin, we are eating - dessert, no less.

Ain't no one wanna see her whipped up back.

Django continues to watching this play out.

Stephen watches him.

Candie folds.

Okay okay Lara. Maybe after dinner.

During the brandies.

Broomhilda - dismissed - takes Calvin's dishes and heads back into the

kitchen.

Stephen takes one more look at Django, and follows Broomhilda behind

the kitchen door.

INT - KITCHEN (BIG HOUSE) - NIGHT

In the kitchen with the OTHER DOMESTICS, Stephen says to Broomhilda;

I thought you said you didn't know him?

Broomhilda turns around.

Huh?

Stephen approaches her, the other Domestics get quiet and watch.

I said, you said, you didn't know him?

I don't.

Yes you do.

Mister Stephen, I don't.

Why you lyin to me?

As tears begin to well in her eyes.

I ain't.

Why you cryin'?

Because you're scarin' me.

Why am I scarin' you?

Because you're scary.

Things have become so tense and quiet in the kitchen, that the dinner

table conversation begins to bleed inside.

We hear Dr.Schultz in the next room say;

Dr.SCHULTZ (OS)

.to speak German,with Hildi this

afternoon was positively soul enriching.

Stephen hears this, he's starting to get the idea.

His eyes to to Broomhilda.

You, stay in the kitchen.

Stephen moves to the kitchen door, swings it open, and watches

Dr.Schultz prepare to proposition Candie for Broomhilda. Stephen knows

these two jokers (Django and Schultz) are up to something, and now he's

just figured it out.

INT - DINNER TABLE (BIG HOUSE) - NIGHT

Dr.SCHULTZ

You indicated earlier you would be

willing to part with Hildi?

Yes siree bob I did.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well in that case allow me to propose

another proposition?

In full "Ole Jimmie" performance, Stephen BARGES in the room,

INTERRUPTING Dr.Schultz.

- Monsieur Candie?

Stephen, you just interrupted Dr.Schultz.

(to Dr.Schultz)

Oh, I do apologize, doctor. My hearin'

ain't worth a damn these days.

Monsieur Candie, I need a word with you in

the kitchen.

What, you mean get outta my chair?

If you could manage it. It's about dessert.

What about dessert?

I would rather tell you in private.

We're having rhubarb pie, what sort of

melodrama could be brewing back there?

Stephen bends down and whispers in his ear;

Meet me in the library.

Well that's a horse of a different color. That means whatever Stephen

has to say, hasn't anything to do with rhubarb pie. "Meet me in the

library" is their secret signal.

Fine friend Stephen, I'll be along momentarily.

Stephen exits.

Candie stands up from his chair and addresses the table.

Well as you can see, talented no doubt as

they are in the kitchen, from time to

time, adult supervision is required.

If you'll excuse me a moment.

Candie exits.

TNT - LIBRARY (BIG HOUSE) - NIGHT

A masculine sanctuary for Calvin Candie. Walls of perfectly bound

books. Stuffed animal heads (deer, boar) that he's shot, sit mounted on

the walls. There's comfy red leather chairs and a bar in the globe.

When WE CUT TO this room, we cut to Stephen sitting in one of the red

leather chairs, drinking a brandy out of a brandy sifter.

Calvin enters the room, sees Stephen sitting in the chair, drinking his

brandy, and doesn't bat an eye. It appears, in this room, Calvin's and

Stephen's life long friendship exits on a different plane. Outside of

outside eyes, in this room, all pretense of master and slave is

dropped, and the number one and number two.. men of Candyland can talk

turkey.

What's the matter?

Those motherfuckers ain't here to buy no

mandingos. They want that girl. -

What the hell you talkin' about?

They playin your ass for a fool, that's

what I'm talkin' bout. They ain't here

for no muscle bound Jimmie, they here for

that girl.

What girl, Hildi?

Yeah, Hildi. The niggers know each other.

He just bought Eskimo Joe.

Did he give you any money?

Well not yet, but -

- Then he didn't R ..Y diddly, not yet no

how. But he was just about to buy, who he

came here to buy, when I interrupted him.

Thank you Stephen - you're welcome Calvin.

Where you gettin' all this? Why would they

go through all that trouble, to. buy a

nigger with a chewed up back, ain't worth

five hundred dollars?

Well they're doin' it cause Django's in

love with Hildi. She's probably his wife.

Now why that German gives a fuck about

who that uppity son-of-a--bitch is in love

with, I'm sure I don't know.

If she's who they want, why the whole

snake oil pitch about mandingos?

Because you wouldn't pay no never mind

to four hundred dollar. But twelve

thousand got you real friendly.

Calvin thinks ...

.as per usual, Stephen's right.

Those lyin' goddamn.time wastin'

sonsabitches!

Sonsabitches! You just watch, I'm gonna

fix their wagon but good! Stephen, we

.gonna have us a Candyland tar and

feathering!

Now Calvin.. .not that I wouldn't enjoy

seein' something like that ... . but why

don't you sit down and let's talk about this.

I let a goddamn nigger and nigger lovin'

huckster insinuate themselves at my

dinner table, and play this whole goddamn

plantation for a fool!

Calm-the-fuck-down, sit down, and let's

discuss this.

A frustrated Calvin finally collapses in the chair.

Now look, you knew, and I knew, there

was something up with these two. We just

didn't know what. But now we do. They

don't want you to know how bad they want

that girl. But these ole boys have rode

a lotta miles, went t6 a whole lotta

trouble, and done spread a whole lotta

bull to get this girl. They must want her

mighty bad. Way I see it, ain't nothin'

changed. They wanna buy a nigger, you

wanna sell a nigger.The only thing done

changed is the advantage.

Now we got it. .So let's go back in there

and busts these motherfucker's chops.

INT - DINING ROOM (BIG HOUSE) - NIGHT

melodramatically ... . Till ... . Calvin Candie enters the room from the

kitchen door.

Lara Lee, oblivious to her brothers change in demeanor, blurts out upon

There you are! I was beginning to think

you and that of crow ran off together.

Schultz and Django feel the change in their host's demeanor, as he

stares down the table at them.

That'd be a hellva note, wouldn't it

Lara Lee?

Lara Lee, I just looked out the big winda.

Ace Woody's out there dealin' with some

shady slaver sellin' a passel of Ponys.

Would you be a dear and go out there and

give them gals an eyeball. That of boy

knows everything to know 'bout mandingos,

But he don't know diddly 'bout black puddin'.

Lara Lee excuses herself and leaves the room, as she goes out,

Bartholomew, with his Sawed Off Shotgun, comes.in behind Schultz and

Django.

Can I ask you two gentlemen to look over

your shoulder?

Schultz and Django do, and see Bartholomew with his sawed off shotgun

pointing at them.

Calvin Candie removes his arm from behind his back, and in his hand

he's holding a big ugly hammer.

Now lay your palms flat on the table top.

They put their palms on the table.

Now you lift those palms off that turtle

shell table top, Bartholomew gonna let

loose with both barrels of that sawed off.

There's been a lotta lies said around this

table tonight-but that.. .you can believe.

Mr.Moguy, would you be so kind as to collect

the pistols hangin' on those boys'hips?

Mr.Moguy does.

Holding the hammer in his hand, Candie continues to hold court.

Now where were we? Oh yes, I do believe you

were just getting ready to make me a

proposition to buy Broomhilda. Right?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Right.

Stephen! Bring out Hildi!

Ix?

Stephen enters the dining room through the kitchen door, holding

roughly in his grip, Broomhilda. He holds a small Derringer pistol

against the side of her head.

Django and Schultz react.

Now it should be quite clear by now I know

you're not here to buy no mandingos.

Reason y'all came to Candyland, is y'all

want Broomhilda. But y'all don't want me

to know how much you want 'er. So instead,

you waste my time with all this Eskimo Joe

horseshit.

Stephen, put her in that chair.

Stephen sits the young lady down in Moguy's old chair.

With their palms against the table, unarmed, Django and Schultz

silently watch Candie's next move.

Candie, still holding the hammer, continues.

Now the way I see it, ain't nothin' changed..

You still wanna buy a nigger, I still wanna

sell one. So, with that in mind, in Greenville,

Dr.Schultz, you yourself said, "For the Right

Nigger you'd be willing to pay what some would

consider a ridiculous amount." To which, me

myself said, "What is your definition of

ridiculous?" To which you said, "Twelve

thousand dollars."

Now considering you two have ridden a whole

lotta miles, went to a whole lotta trouble,

and done spread a whole lotta bull, to

purchase the lovely lady to my left, it would

appear that Broomhilda is, "The Right Nigger."

And if y'all wanna leave Candyland with

Broomhilda, the price is twelve thousand dollars.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I take it you prefer the take it or leave

it style of negotiating.

Candie continuing to hold the hammer continues.

Under the laws of Chickasaw County,

Broomhilda is my property. And I can do

anything with my property I so desire.

He brings the big hammer down hard on the dinner table, making

everybody jump.

And if you think my price for this nigger

is too steep, what I'm gonna desire to do

is, take this hammer and beat her ass to

death with it. Right in front of both y'all.

He SMASHES the arm rest of the chair Broomhilda's sitting in.

Put up or shut up, Schultz. You wanna save

this nigger bitch, you gonna pay my price.

Dr.SCHULTZ

May I lift my hands from the table top in

order to remove my billfold?

Yes you may.

Dr.Schultz removes his long brown leather billfold from his gray suit

jacket, and says;,

Dr.SCHULTZ

Easy come, easy go.

He slides the billfold down the table to Candie. The plantation owner

takes out the money, does a quick count, then looks down the table at

the seated Schultz, and says;

Pleasure doin' business with you.

INT - DINING ROOM (BIG HOUSE) - NIGHT

INSERT: Calvin signing over Broomhilda's BILL OF SALE.

.Moguy signs as a witness.

Broomhilda stands next to Django, and watches her Master sign her

freedom papers.

Dr.Schultz sits off by himself. He's very disturbed.

All the white people with Calvin Candie are happy and celebrate

Candie's successes with glasses of Brandy. Lara Lee, Ace Woody, and

Brown and Cody have joined the' celebration.

For an experienced horsetrader, the just concluded transaction is a

thing of legend. He just sold a Pony, with a tore up back, and a

runaway "r" burned in her cheek - ain't worth five hundred

dollars- for twelve thousand.

Stephen smiles and laughs it up with everybody else.

The Other domestics bring out little plates of rhubarb pie, and buzz

around pouring coffee for the white people.

Candie walks over to the seated Schultz, he carries a small plate of

rhubarb pie with him.

Rhubarb pie?

Schultz looks at the pie and the man.

Dr.SCHULTZ

No.

Are you brooding 'bout me getting the best

of ya?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Actually, I was thinking of that poor

devil you fed to the dogs today, D'Artagnan.

And I was wondering what Dumas would make of

all this.

Calvin hands the doctor the two pieces of paper he needs. Broomhilda's

bill of sale, and her freedom papers. As he says the following he

examines he papers.

Dumas...?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Alexander Dumas. He wrote "The Three Musketeers."

I figured you must be an admirer. You named

your slave after that novel's lead character.

If Alexander Dumas had been there today, I

wonder what he would of made of it?

You doubt he'd approve?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Yes his approval would be a dubious proposition

at best.

Soft hearted Frenchy?

Dr.SCHULTZ

Alexander Dumas is black.

Schultz rises, puts the papers in his back pocket, .looks to his two

companions, Django and Broomhilda, and says;

Dr.SCHULTZ

We got it, let's go.

Normally Monsieur Candie, I would say,

auf wiedersehen. But since what auf wiedersehen

actually means is, till I see you again,

and since I never wish to see you again,

to you sir, I say, goodbye.

Schultz begins to cross the room towards the exit.

When Calvin says to the German's back;

One more moment, Doc!

Dr.SCHULTZ

What?

It's a custom here in the South, once a

business deal is concluded, for the two

parties to shake hands. It implies good

faith.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'm not from the South.

He turns to leave.

You're in my house, doctor, I'm afraid

I must insist.

This turns Schultz around.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Insist what...? That I shake your hand

before I leave? Then I'm afraid I must

insist in the opposite direction.

Calvin walks closer to the German doctor.

You know what I think you are?

Dr.SCHULTZ

What you think I am? No I don't.

1310,

I think you are a bad loser.

Dr.SCHULTZ

And I think you're an abysmal winner.

Never the less, here in Chickasaw County

a deal ain't done till the two parties have

shook hands. Even after all this paper

signin', don't mean shit you don't shake my hand.

Dr.SCHULTZ

If I don't shake your hand, you're gonna throw

away twelve thousand dollars...?

I don't think so.

Schultz looks to Django and Broomhilda.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Let's go.

Bartholomew, if she tries to leave here

before this German shakes my hand.

Cut 'er down.

Schultz looks to Django... . then to Candle..

.and then with a smile on his face, and a twinkle in his eye, asks

Dr.SCHULTZ.

You really want me to shake your hand?

Django gets it.

I insist.

-Schultz smiles.

Dr.SCHULTZ

Well, if you insist.

Django goes to stop him...

The German crosses toward Candie, offering him his hand...

Candie offers his hand to Schultz...

The small DERRINGER POPS into Schultz's outstretched hand...

POP!

He SHOOTS CALVIN CANDIE in the heart.

Candie has a look of shock as blood explodes from his heart, and he

falls to the floor.

Everybody is stunned.

Schultz looks to Django.

Django looks back.

Dr.SCHULTZ

I'm sorry. I couldn't resist.

Dr.SCHULTZ is BLOWN APART by Bartholomew's SAWED OFF SHOTGUN.

The room comes to its senses and attacks Django and Broomhilda.

FADE TO BLACK

We FADE UP FROM BLACK to see:

The soles of Django's bare feet. A rope is tied around the ankles, and

it's obvious he's been strung up, upside down.

The CAMERA moves down his naked body, down his legs (we see his wrists

are'bound with ropes to his thigh), down his bare buttocks, down his

whip scarred back, to the back of his head which hovers just about

three inches from the barn yard wooden floor.

INT - BARN - AFTERNOON

Eight year old stable boy, Timmy, wipes the unconscious Django's face

with a wet rag. They are all alone in the barn.

Django begins to come to ...

Act like you still sleepin'.

Where's Broomhilda?

Who?

Hildi, the slave girl that ran away a

couple of days ago. They had her in The

Hot Box.

I don't know 'bout no girl.

How 'bout that German white man I came

here with?

Oh he's dead. His body's over there.

Django twists upside down on the rope, and sees the corpse of his

friend King Schultz dead on the filthy barn yard floor. The sight of

the lifeless carcass of the doctor fills Django with pain and anger.

Just then head overseer Ace Woody walks in the barn.

Upon seeing Ace, Timmy hightails it out of there, Ace throws an empty

bucket at the fleeing boy.

Git on outta here, boy!

Django, slightly..swaying to and fro from the rope, looks upside down

at Ace Woody, all dressed up in a black suit with a string tie, which

makes him look a bit like Wyatt Earp.

So y'all bounty hunters,.huh?

Django thinks, "How does he know?"

I knew there was something fishy 'bout, y'all.

We found your wanted posters and book of figures

in your saddle bags. I gotta say, ain't never

heard of no black bounty hunter before. A black

boy paid to kill white men? How did ya like that

line of work?

Django retorts, upside down.

Well, it turns out I was a natural.

Ace woody laughs.

Boy, people 'round here are cross wit you.

Ace Woody pulls up a tiny milking stool, and sits down on it, a body

length from the hanging man.

See Boss Man was a rather beloved figure

'round here. Now he's dead as fried chicken,

everyone 'round here blames you.

Ace Woody opens his black suit jacket, we see not only does he wear a

gun and holster around his waist, he carries a HUGE BOWIE KNIFE ina

shoulder holster. He removes the big blade from its sheath.

Yep, Boss Man's gone. Poor Calvin. Poor

goddamn Calvin. We're burnin' him in a few

hours. At sunset. Should be real pretty.

However ... . I don't think you're gonna be

able to attend.

Ace takes the Bowie Knife and THROWS IT...

. IT LANDS stuck in the wooden barn yard floor, four inches from

Django's face.

Ace Woody slowly rises up from the tiny milking stool, and slowly walks

the length of the floor between him and Django, pulls the blade out of

the floor, and walks back to his stool, and sits back down.

As he does this, he says;

Now I understand you didn't really have

nuttin' to do wit it. It's that German

sunbitch the trouble maker. You just wanted

to git your girl, and hightail your nigger

asses outta here. Now I appreciate that.

But grieving folks 'round here need someone

to blame. And I guess they figure if you

hadn't brought your black ass 'round here

in the first place, Boss Man still be alive.

And you know what, they got a point.

He THROWS the knife again...

.this time IT LANDS in the floor two inches from Django's face.

He walks the same path from the knife and back to the tiny stool.

As he does he says;

Now when it comes to making a nigger regret

the error of his ways, believe me when I.

tell you, I know every goddamn trick in the

book. Now there's a lotta ass busters out

there try an' git creative with the way they

bust ass. But me... .I always found the best

methods are, tried and true.

He THROWS the knife again...

Django JERKS his head back ...

.and the knife LANDS in the floor, right where Django's head was.

Ace Woody stands up, walks the floor to the Bowie, yanks it out of the

wood., and straightens up, standing right beside the hanging upside down

naked black man. Ace talks confidentially to the bound man at his

mercy.

You know Blackie, here at Candyland, I had

me a real sweet deal. These last eleven years

training Calvin's mandingos I made me more

money I made my whole goddamn life.

And no end in sight, neither.

Then you came along. Knocked me right off

that perch I was sittin' pretty on. You think

Miss Lara gonna be as.interested in

mandingos as her brother?

Uuummmm...I don't think so. What I think,

is you done fucked up my good thang.

So when it comes to you, Django boy, you

could say I gotta axe to grind.

He grabs a handfull of Django's genitals in his fist. He takes his big

Bowie, and places the razor sharp BLADE against Django's nut sack.

Django dances at the end of the rope like live bait on a fishing pole.

How's the blade of that Bowie feel against

your ball sack, Blackie? A Bowie right off

the wet stone. Now that's what I call sharp.

Django dances some more ...

Yep nigger, I'm gonna snip them nuts.

On the count of three.

NO!!!!

ONE ...

NO DON'T DO IT!!!!!

Got to do it, boy. TWO...

NO!!!! !

Just then Stephen appears in the entrance of the barn/blacksmith

facility. He's holding Django's clothes in a bundle under his arm.

Cap't, Miss Lara lookin' for you. She wanna

talk about the Old Man's funeral.

Oh, and she changed her mind 'bout snippin'

Django. She gonna give 'em to the LeQuint

Dickey people.

While still keeping a firm grip on Django's'junk, Ace Woody says;

Well she didn't waste a minute tellin' me.

Ace Woody looks down at Django, both men get over the aborted emotion

of what almost happened.

How disappointing.

Where she at?

She in the big house. The kitchen.

Ace turns to leave, Stephen goes over to a big fiery furnace in the

blacksmith barn, and begins poking a LONG POKER which lies buried in

the fire.

Django's clothes are dumped by the furnace.

You gonna look after our friend?

As, he plays with the poker in the fire, he says;

Oh yes sirree Bob, you know I am!

01' Snowball and a certain naked ass

upside down nigger we both know, gonna

have us a big of chat.

He removes the big black poker from the furnaces fire, it's RED HOT END

GLOWS ORANGE.

Snowballs just makin' sure his talking

stick is all nice and FROSTY.

Ace Woody chuckles to himself as he exits the barn.

Just Stephen with a red hot poker, and naked, bound upside down Django,

alone.

With the red hot poker in his hand Snowball approaches the naked

hanging Django.

I bet you an' that German thought y'all was

on easy street for awhile - didn't ya?

Y'all track Hildi to the Old Man.

You get the idea to go to Greenville -

look up the Ole Man there.

That was a good idea. I bet y'all couldn't

believe how easy it was. You meet Moguy, he

buys your horseshit. Ya' git your ass invited

to Candyland, no fuss no muss. Ya' ride the

whole way to the plantation, no one the wiser.

Then ya' ride in to Candyland - ride your

goddamn horses right up to the motherfucking

Big House.

And that's where you met me. And that's when

you knew your goose was cooked.

He TOUCHES Django's NIPPLE with the ORANGE HOT TIP of the poker.

Unlike a lot of movie hero's, Django doesn't take torture silently and

stoically. This shit fucking hurts, so you best believe he screams his

fucking ass off, and twists in agony when he gets touched by the orange

tip of that red hot poker.

Now that fancy talkin' white man of yours

didn't know what's what. He still thought his

ass hadda chance. But like the One-Eyed Charly

you are, you always know the end is near

'fore the white folks.

With the ORANGE HOT poker, he BURNS OFF Django's other NIPPLE.

The smell of burned flesh smokes in the air. Stephen makes a show of

breathing it in his nostrils.

Damn Nigger, you smell good.

He walks behind Django with the poker.

You know, when you was sittin' on that feather

bed in the quest room in the Big House -

After you slapped my ass to the floor

You were sayin' something 'bout my BARE BLACK

ass, and how you were gonna BUST IT.

Remember that, Bright Boy?

He places the HOT ORANGE END OF THE POKER hard against Django's BARE

buttocks.

Django SCREAMS!

Stephen LAUGHS.

Stephen walks away and sticks the poker back in the fire. He goes

through Django's clothes and pulls out his tan pants. He tosses them on

the floor by the hanging man.

You leavin', that's what you can take

with you.

Stephen walks over to the hanging upside down man, and as he talks to

him, he begins fondling Django's genitals.

Now you were quite the topic of conversation

for the last few hours. Seemed like folks

never had a bright idea in their life, was

comin' up with different ways to kill your

ASS. Now most of 'dem ideas involved fuckin

wit your fun parts. But while that might SEEM

like a good idea. Truth is, once ya snip a

niggers nuts, most bleed out. Then I say;

"Hells bells, the niggers we send to LeQuint

Dickey, got it worse then that." Then they're,

"Let's whip 'em to death," "Throw 'em to the

mandingos," "Feed 'em to Stonesipher's dogs."

And then I say, "What's so special 'bout that?

We do that shit all the time. Hells bells,

the niggers we send to LeQuint Dickey got it

worse then that."

He stops massaging Django's balls.

So Miss Lara got the bright idea of givin'

your ass to The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company.

And as a slave of The LeQuint Dickey Mining

Company, hence forth, till the day you die,

you will be swinging a sledgehammer, all day,

every day, turning big rocks into little rocks.

And trust me when I tell you it's gonna be

'bout as much fun as it sounds. We sell 'em

the mandingos ain't good for nuttin' no more.

Like them three y'all came back with. For them

big garboons we get twenty a piece. They last

'bout six months. Skinny nigger like you,

I give two or three.

Stephen turns to leave.

Where's Broomhilda?

She's all right for now. Miss Lara

soft hearted on 'er. She gave her

to Billy Crash. He was sweet on 'er.

Now Billy Crash might not look or

smell too good, but ain't nobody

gonna bother her.

Stephen limps away.

EXT - CANDYLAND - AFTERNOON

The Caravan coming from The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company comes riding

up to the plantation. It comes equipped with one CAGE WAGON (from a

prison), ONE white trash PECKAWOOD named FLOYD to drive the wagon, a

2nd white trash PECKAWOOD named ROY to ride lead horse, and a white

trash PECKAWOOD named JANO to bring up the rear riding horses ass, plus

a pack horse that carries dynamite for the mine.

The three peckawoods, who all talk with thick Australian accents, have

stopped the caravan and are having a powwow.

It's chaos 'round here. Some bastard shot

the big boss. Let's git the niggers and

git out.

The Three mandingos who weren't sold in Greenville, Rodney, Chicken

Charly, and Chester are walked to the wagon by overseers Tommy Giles.

and Broomhilda's new owner Billy Crash. All three slaves carry the

bundles of personal belongings they've had since Greenville. Chester

wears a hat, and Chicken Charly has a corncob pipe in his mouth.

The wagon driver, Floyd, approaches them.

You blacks line up.

They do.

What's your names?

Chester.

Chicken Charly.

Rodney.

I'm.Floyd, this is Roy, and that's Jano.

What's that?

It's my stuff.

Throw it in the dirt.

All three throw their only belongings in the dirt. Floyd takes the'hat

off of Chester's head and sails it away. As well as ripping the

corncob pipe out of Chicken Charly's mouth and tossing it in the dirt.

(to Chicken Charly)

You won't be doin' much smokin' mate.

(to all three)

You are now the property of The LeQuint

Dickey Mining Company. Git in the cage.

This is going to be worse then the three even thought. They climb into

the cage wagon. Floyd locks it behind them.

Roy, the head Aussie, pays Billy Crash for the slaves, when we hear Ace

Woody call out;

ACE WOODY (OS)

Hold on, we got another hammer swinger

for ya.

Ace Woody comes walking out of the barn with Django, shirtless and

barefoot (just like we met him at beginning of the story), wearing his

old tan pants, and his wrists bound by a rope.

We can't use that skinny bastard.

We got an arraignment with Mr.Dickey to take

punishment niggers from time to time.

No one tole' me 'bout no arraignment.

Well if Mr.Dickey ain't takin' you into his

confidence, I'm sure I don't know why.

Look, no one tole' me 'bout -

- No, you look peckawood, this nigger got Boss

Candie killed. And we want his ass punished.

Now I know you need our bucks. So.unless you

wanna ride back to the mine, and tell Mr.Dickey

how and why you fucked up our nice little

business relationship, take this nigger and

hush up about it!

Fine, stick 'em in the goddamn cage.

Django sees the three mandingos in the cage. They see him too.

Django stops Ace Woody.

Whoa whoa whoa, you can't put me in there

with them. They'll kill me. What about all

that -turning big rocks into little rocks-

shit y'all was. talkin' about? I mean that was

the idea ain't it? You put me in there with

them big ass garboons they kill me on the way.

I mean if that's the idea, that's the idea,

but I didn't think that was the idea.

Ace knows he's right, so he turns to Roy and Floyd.

He can't go in there with them.

Why not?

They'll kill him.

I don't give a damn.

Well we do! He killed the fuckin Boss Man,

we want the mine to grind him to gravel!

Jano, you're riclin' horses ass, you take this

black and make sure he keeps up.

Oh, I'll keep 'em up.

Jano takes the rope tired around Django's wrists.and ties the other end

around his saddle horn.

The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company caravan leaves Candyland.

EXT - MISSISSIPPI COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

The Caravan makes its way down a dirt road in pretty Chickasaw County.

Stoic Roy riding lead horse, Floyd driving the cage wagon, Rodney,

Chester, and Chicken Charly bouncing around inside the cage wagon, Jano

riding horses ass, and Django being led on foot behind him.

Hey boy!

Jano ignores him.

I said, hey white boy!

Keep your mouth shut black, you ain't got

nothing to say I wanna hear.

What's he pay you?

Who?

LeQuint Dickey?

You gotta few more things to worry about

black boy, then what I get paid.

I ain't worried about it. I'm just curious.

I mean, I'm the property of The LeQuint Dickey

Mining Company, ain't I?

Yeah.

And you work for The LeQuint Dickey Mining

Company, dont'cha?

Yeah?

Well, I know how much I'm gettin' paid,

how much you gettin' paid? I mean like

for instance, how much you gettin' paid

for today?

Look black, it don't work like that. Dickey

paid for our passage from Australia to here.

We get a little money to send back home, and

pay him back for the boat trip.

How long you been here?

'bout two years.

And you ain't paid him back yet?

No, not yet!

You a slave too, peckawood. They just bought

your ass for the price of a boat ride.

At least they didn't charge us for our boat

ride ... . ha ha ha ha...

You shut up!

Jano's hand grabs his riding crop, and he brings it up to strike

Django, when the black man says to him;

How'd you like to make eleven thousand

dollars?

What?

Django steps closer to him.

How would you like to make eleven thousand

dollars -- eleven thousand five hundred,

actually?

Roy, in the lead, yells back to Jano;

Goddamit Jano, stop fuckin with that black,

and keep up!

Keep riding, just ride slower.

They move forward, with Django walking beside Jano on his horse.

Back at that plantation Candyland, there

was an eleven thousand five hundred dollar

fortune just sittin there, and y'all rode

right past it.

You be damned, blackie. We're not bandits.

That's what's nice about this fortune, it's

not illegal. You can't steal it, ya gotta

earn it.

If you got something to say, say it.

The eleven thousand five hundred dollar fortune

waiting for you back at Candyland, is in the

form of a wanted dead or alive bounty on

Smitty Bacall and the Smitty Bacall Gang.

Who the fuck is Smitty Bacall?

Smitty Bacall is the leader of a murdering

gang of stagecoach robbers, The Bacall Gang.

There's a seven thousand dollar dead or alive

bounty on him. And one thousand five hundred

dollars for each of his three accomplices,

Dandy Michaels, Gerald Nash, and Crazy Craig Koons.

And all four of them gentlemen are sittin back

there at Candyland...laughin their ass off...

cause they just got away with murder.

But it don't hafta be that way. You and your

mates could get that money.

Who pays the money?

The Court.

The Court?

The Austin Texas Courthouse. Oh, and by

the way, the court don't give a damn about

how you kill 'em. You can shoot 'em in the

back, from up on a hill, in the back of

the head, in their sleep - don't matter.

Court doesn't care how you do it, just as

long as you do it.

They.pay us to kill 'em?

No. You kill 'em, and they payyou for the

corpse. Get it?

I think so... . what did these jokers do again?

Killed innocent people in a stagecoach

robbery. I've got the handbill in my pocket.

Django digs into his tan pants and pulls out the folded up Smitty

Bacall handbill that Dr.Schultz told him to hang on to for good luck.

He hands it to Jano.

What's this?

I told you, it's the handbill for Smitty

Bacall and The Bacall Gang.

Jano looks at the handbill.

Whatsamatter, can't you read?

I can read, I just don't have my glasses.

I didn't take 'em with me, because I didn't

think I'd be doin much readin' on a nigger run.

What about that cowboy fella in the lead?

Roy?

Can Roy read?

Look, get it straight black, I can fuckin

read. I just don't got my glasses.

EXT -- BEAUTIFUL MISSISSIPPI COUNTRY TABLEAUX at DUSK

The LeQuint Dickey Mining Co. Caravan has stopped, and pulled over to

the side of the road.

IN THE CAGE

Rodney, Chicken Charly, and Chester sit in the cage, and watch through

the bars this new turn of events without any.clear comprehension of

what they're watching.

What the three caged men are watching is the three Australian mining

company employees and Django, off in the distance (where they can't

hear what they're saying), having some sort of a discussion. That

includes the still bound by the wrists Django showing the three men a

piece of paper.

INSERT: SMITTY BACALL'S WANTED DEAD OR ALIVE HANDBILL

Roy holds it in his hand as he reads and Django talks.

I ain't no goddamn slave. Do I sound-like

a fuckin slave? I'm a bounty hunter.

Yesterday as a free man, I rode into

Candyland on a horse with my white German

partner, Dr.King Schultz. We'd tracked The

Bacall Gang from Texas all the way to

Chickasaw County. Found them laying low at

Candyland. We went in to get 'em, things

went sour. My partner was killed, and Calvin

Candie was shot. Everybody there decided to

blame me, so here I am.

You know I'm not on the manifest? All of you

know I'm not suppose to be on this trip.

But those four men, are still back there.

They're still wanted. And that eleven thousand

five hundred is still up for grabs. And the

last thing they'd expect is y'all rid.in back

and gittin it.

Django is damn convincing.

What's your deal? You tell us who they are

and we let ya go?

I ain't tellin' who they are. But, you give

me a pistol, and a horse, and five hundred

dollars of that eleven thousand five hundred,

and I'll point 'em out to you.

He's got these greedy sonsabitches right on the hook...he just needs

one little push.

Y'all wanna ask somebody if I'm tellin the

truth, ask them mandingos. You can't put

me in the same cage with them without them

killin me. Why ya think that is? Ask them

.am I a Candyland slave, or did I ride in

there on a horse, with a white man, yesterday?

ROY AND FLOYD

go to the Cage Wagon to talk with the three mandingos. As they walk,

Roy continues to study the handbill.

"Wanted, dead or alive. Smitty Bacall and

The Bacall Gang. For murder and stagecoach

robbery. Seven thousand dollars for Bacall.

One thousand five hundred dollars for each

of his gang members... ." This is a real handbill.

Just because the handbill's real doesn't

mean that other bunch of malarky.is.

Why would a nigger slave have a wanted dead

or alive handbill in his pocket?

Floyd doesn't have an answer for that one.

That black's damn convincing.

They get to The Cage O'Men. Roy startles them with a direct question;

(pointing, behind

him, at Django)

That black ride into Candyland yesterday?

The Caged Men don't know what they're suppose to say.

Roy removes the pistol from his belt, cocks back the hammer and points

the barrel at the cage.

I'm gonna ask again, and remember I don't

like liars. Is he a Candyland slave, or did

he ride in with a white man yesterday?

Yeah. They walked us from the Greenville

Auction and he rode on a horse with a

white man.

This white man, was the black his slave?

He weren't no slave.

You sure about that?

Damn sure.

Roy starts taking the possibility of an eleven thousand dollar windfall

seriously.

What happened at Candyland?

Bunch of shootin, master got shot.

Who shot 'em?

The German.

And why did he do that?

The nigger and the German were actin as if they

were slavers, but they weren't.

What were they?

Bounty hunters.

Floyd is starting to get convinced.

Goddamn Roy, this could be big.

(to the Slaves)

Do you know who Smitty Bacall is?

!Y,

(barking at Floyd)

They wouldn't go by their outlaw names

you idiot!

Roy and Floyd walk back to Django and Jano.

Okay black, you gotta deal.

Jano reacts.

I got one more condition.

What?

When we get there, when the time comes,

you let me help you kill 'em.

Roy whips out a big knife, and cuts the rope around Django's wrists.

You got a deal, black.

Django interrupts -

You gotta deal, mate.

Roy really laughs this time. As does Django and the other two Aussies.

You're all right for a black fella!

Rodney, Chicken Charly, and Chester watch the sight of the white men

cutting the ropes that bound the black man's wrists, as well as them

all sharing a laugh, with wonderment. "Who is this Nigger?"

BACK WITH THE LAUGHING QUARTET

We'll give you that pack horse.

What's them saddle bags filled with?

Dynamite.

!so

I.ain't ridin no horse with no goddamn

dynamite on his back!

Yeah, I can see why. Jano take those sticks

off that horse, and stick 'em in the nigger

cage.

at all.

Jano removes the last of the dynamite filled saddle bags from Django's

horse, throws them over his shoulders, and begins walking back to The

Cage Wagon.

Django moves to his new pack horse, and says;

Where's my pistol?

Floyd, you got that rifle on the wagon, give

'em your gun and your belt.

Floyd unbuckles his gun belt, gun and all, folds it up, and walks over

to Django handing it to him. Django accepts it.

About the pistol, Floyd tells Django;

Now don't drop it now. I just had the sights

fixed last month, it's perfect.

Django holding the gunbelt in his hand.

That's good to know.

Without taking the pistol out of the gunbelt, DJANGO SHOOTS FLOYD TWICE

in the chest...

Roy turns around...

Django takes the gun out of the holster...

. BAM...ROY is HIT in the UPPER BRAIN AREA and falls to the grass

dead.

Jano goes for the gun on his hip.

Django SHOOTS ONE OF THE SADDLE BAGS over.Jano's shoulder...KAHBOOM!!!!!

Jano is BLOWN TO SMITHEREENS...

The KAHBOOM knocks Django on his ass...

The CAGE WAGON

Rodney, Chester, and Chicken Charlie come down from the shock of the

blast. The image outside the bars of their cage is of DUST and SMOKE in

the air, obscuring all visibility...

THEN ...

A sudden GUST OF WIND comes and BLOWS all the smoke and dust away,

REVEALING in bright color focus...

.DJANGO standing among the two dead Aussies, and whatever is left of

Jano.

He's shoeless and shirtless, but Floyd's pistol and gunbelt sit

wrapped around his waist.

He locks eyes with the three men in the cage..

He then moves towards the wagon, and unhooks the mine company beast,

and climbs aboard him bareback.

He leans over and snatches the RIFLE that Floyd kept on the wagon seat

next to him.

Grabbing a fistful of the horses mane, he digs his heels into the

beast's side. The pack animals SPRINGS TO LIFE under the new rider. By

now it should be apparent that Django brings the best out of horses, and

horses bring the best out of Django.

From his high horse Django looks down at The Three Caged Men...

.THEN...

Using the rifle in a QUICK ONE HANDED MOVE he SHOOTS the lock on the

cage door.

He looks at the three men, especially Rodney, then says;

Throw up that dynamite.

Rodney grabs a saddle bag full of dynamite and tosses it to Django on

his Horse.

Django wraps it around the Horse's neck, turns the beast around, and

without saying another word, rides back in the direction of Candyland.

The Three NOW FREE Mandingos, watch him ride away.

"Who was that nigger?"

l.rz

A GORGEOUS BIG SKY SOUTHERN PURPLE AND ORANGE SUNSET WE PAN DOWN from

the sky and see in small black silhouette the Funeral Procession of

Calvin Candie carrying the Coffin of the former Master up the hill on

'Candyland that leads to the Graveyard.

A WHITE PREACHER walks out in front of the Procession.

Then comes Calvin Candie's Coffin carried by eight pallbearers,

Stephen, Moguy, Bartholomew, Ace Woody, Brown, Cody, and his best

mandingos SAMSON and GOLDIE.

The first mourner in line is Lara Lee dressed in a fancy black dress,

wide brim black hat, black veil, and ever present black Mammy (Cora)

crying at her side.

The sky's real pretty Miss Lara. Monsieur

Candie think it real nice.

Ah, bless you sweet innocent Cora.

WE CROSS CUT WITH SHOTS

of Django RIDING THE HORSE on the way back to Candyland. The bare

backed black man riding the horse bareback, holding the RIFLE in one

hand, a fistful of the horses mane in the other, hauling ass against a

gorgeous SUNSET SKY, looks like an Indian.

EXT - TRACKER SHACK/BUNKHOUSE - SUNSET

The same GORGEOUS SUNSET SKY over the same shitty Tracker shack

-Bunkhouse that Mr.Stonesipher and his three obscure companions share.

The GERMAN SHEPHERDS (including Marsha) rest in the chicken wire kennel

next to the bunkhouse.

INT - TRACKER SHACK - SUNSET

The FOUR TRACKERS are.missing the funeral, hanging out in the bunkhouse

wearing their beards. Mr.Stonesipher, Lex, and Stew are playing a

mountain card game which looks like poker, except the way you get rid of

your cards is different. Instead of chips they play with, "NIGGER EARS"

(yes, the ears of slaves). On a second viewing the audience may notice

that some of the slaves at Candyland are missing one ear.

Jake, the biggest, is off by himself, pounding nails into a small

delicate BIRDHOUSE he's making.

EXT - WOODS-OUTSIDE THE SHACK - SUNSET

INSERT: HORSE HOOFS walking then stopping. Django's bare feet jump on

to the ground.

INT - DOG KENNEL - SUNSET

The FOUR DOGS lay out... . when, Marsha hears something, and raises her

head...

moves quietly through the woods.

rises to all fours, to listen and smell. out in the darkness, her three

PALS continue to lay out.

DJANGO BY A TREE

he can see the bunkhouse entrance, the LONG HANDLE AXE buried in the

chopping block, the kennel, and the one dog looking his way.

BARK!

The Other Three Dogs wake up, and go on alert.

Django disappears.

INT - TRACKER SHACK - SUNSET

They hear the barking inside.

Mr.STONESIPHER

Jake!

Jake building his birdhouse.

Yeah?

Mr.STONESIPHER

Check on Marsha.

Jake, the one not playing the game, puts aside his hammer, and rises to

check on them (these guys are very sensitive about their dogs).

EXT - TRACKER SHACK

As the BARKING gets louder, WE SEE A CLOSE UP of The Axe in the

chopping block, and Django's hand REMOVING IT.

opens the bunkhouse door-he sees directly a hundred feet in front of

him, Django standing there with the axe. Just as he reacts...

DJANGO ... . THROWS THE AXE...

JAKE ... . IT HITS HIM IN THE FACE.

After letting go of the axe handle, Django RUNS FULL SPEED toward Jake.

Before the other three have really registered what's happening, Django

has crossed the distance, and is YANKING The Axe out of JAKE'S FACE.

And with AXE in hand, Django chases and fights with all three trackers,

till after a point where he's CHOPPED DOWN TWO OF THEM, Lex, and Stew,

and now there's only Mr.Stonesipher left.

But Mr.Stonesipher has managed to draw his gigantic BUCK KNIFE, and is

able to fight back against Django. You know Stonesipher's great with a

knife, plus his fighting style is like one of his dogs, attack attack

attack.

Django uses the axe handle in a defensive position.

The expert Mountain Boy begins SCORING BLADE CUTS on shirtless Django.

The two men fight until they end up losing their weapons. Then it's

just a fight of brute strength, and survival. Mr.Stonesipher is

physically bigger then Django. But if Django's going to save Broomhilda,

not to mention get revenge on all these Candyland motherfuckers, he has

to take Stonesipher's ass out.

This Black Man who has been under the yoke of white man's domination

all his life, and this White Man who feeds black people to dogs, fight

each other for their life.

Django gets his arm around Stonesipher's neck in a headlock, but the

mountain boy is big enough to lift Django. So like a rodeo rider

holding onto bull for dear life, Django tightens his lock around his

opponents neck. Django gets his hand on the HAMMER Jake was building

the birdhouse with, and BRINGS IT CRASHING DOWN ON THE TOP OF

STONESIPHER'S HEAD.

That weakens Stonesipher.

He HITS HIM AGAIN IN THE HEAD.

That drops Stonesipher to his knees.

He HITS HIM AGAIN WITH THE HAMMER ON THE HEAD.

That puts the mountain man down on his back.

He HITS HIM ONE MORE TIME WITH THE HAMMER TO keep him down for good.

The Trackers are all dead.

Only the dogs mad barking remains.

EXT - The FUNERAL - NIGHT

The Funeral for Calvin Candie is underway. The Preacher reads some

words over him.

EXT - TRACKER SHACK - NIGHT

Django, half naked, splattered with blood from the axe murders, steps

out of the shack. He takes a wash basin off the window sill, and walks

over to the WATER PUMP.

Marsha and her three friends-continue to BARK like mad.

He PUMPS a couple of times, and water explodes into the bowl. He

begins washing the blood-off'of himself. As he washes, he says outloud;

What ya doin around here, boy?

Timmy steps from his watching place in the bushes.

I was just walkin' by.

Wanna help me out?

Sure.

My woman, Hildi, is with Billy Crash.

You know where his shack is?

Sure do.

You show me?

Will I get in trouble?

Not by the time I get through killin'

everybody.

Timmy has never heard a black man talk like that. He believes him.

I'll show ya.

THEN ...

Django turns towards the barking dogs. He turns back to Timmy and asks;

You know what toadstools look like?

Sure do.

Go pick me a mess of 'em.

INSERT: TIMMY picking TOADSTOOLS (POISON MUSHROMS).

INSERT: DJANGO stirring a big pot of BEEF STEW with a wooden spoon in

the tracker shack.

Timmy comes'in carrying a bunch of toadstools inside his shirt.

Django takes the toadstools and Mr.Stonesipher's BUCK KNIFE and CHOPS

the mushrooms into tiny pieces.

He tosses the tiny bits of poisoned shrooms into the beefy sauce, and

mixes it up with the spoon.

EXT - MARSHA'S KENNEL - NIGHT

Django throws the pot of poisoned beef stew over the top of the kennel.

It lands on the ground with a PLOP.

The Angry Dogs, are nevertheless', still dogs, and greedily scarf up

the stew.

Django watches them wolf down their ultimate agony with a smile.

You bit your last nigger, bitch? Bite on that.

Django lifts Timmy up on to the bare backed wagon horse.

First things first, boy. Take me to my horse.

EXT - FUNERAL NIGHT

The funeral is in full melodramatic bore.

TNT - STABLE-BLACKSMITH - NIGHT

Timmy brings Django to the stable on the Candyland grounds. Django goes

straight up to the stall housing Tony and says hello. Tony's happy to

see him. Django feeds him an apple he picked along the way for him.

He turns and sees the body of Dr.Schultz lying in a heap.

And Schultz's horse Fritz in the stable.

Saddle up Fritz and Tony.

Timmy just stares.

Now, boy!

Timmy hops to work.

Django bends down over the body of Dr.Schultz, he takes Broomhilda's

bill of sale and freedom papers out of his back pocket. He also

searches for and finds Schultz's hidden DERRINGER, he keeps it in a

holster around his ankle.

As Timmy saddles the horses, he asks;

Do you feel bad for your friend?

Django rises from the body of his friend.

Yeah, "I do.

As Timmy saddles the horses he says;

I know just how ya feel. I lost a white

friend once. He drowned in the lake.

Django doesn't correct the difference between Dr.Schultz and a white

friend, because there's nothing he could say to Timmy to make him

understand.

He goes over to his pile of clothes, which still lie next to the

furnace. He Puts on his boots. His Green Jacket over his bare chest.

And finally his hat.

EXT - The FUNERAL - NIGHT

The service is over, everybody is hugging each other and holding hands,

and beginning to leave.

INT - BILLY CRASH'S SHACK - NIGHT

Billy Crash is in bed fucking Broomhilda. She doesn't wail, she doesn't

make any whimpering sounds, but her eyes constantly water.

As Billy's fucking her he says;

It's gonna be real nice 'round here now

the 'ol man's gone.

Would you stop your galdarn cryin'!

He stops fucking in frustration

I can't.

Now girl, I'm tryin' to be nice.

I can't help it! I'm really sad!

He hops off her and yells at her.

Well goddamit, you're a nigger! Life is sad

for niggers! Git use to it!

Look you know Me, Hildi. I'm an ass buster

from way back. But you know I've always been

sweet on you. I don't wanna bust your ass.

So don't make me! Now I'm gonna go shit.

You calm down.

He exits the shack to go the outhouse, leaving Broomhilda alone.

WE MOVE INTO A CLOSE UP OF BROOMHILDA lying on the bed. She cries for

Django, she cries for herself...

.THEN...

She HEARS an IMPACT SOUND, and a MUFFLED "Ooomph" SOUND.

And through the spaces in the wooden planks that act as walls in Billy

Crash's shack, she sees a figure fall to the ground.

Then she sees another figure through the wooden planks move towards the

front door.

Her face, stained with tears, watches the door.

A soft "Knock Knock" on the door.

Yes?

The VOICE on the other side of the door, says;

DJANGO'S VOICE (OS)

Hey Little Trouble Maker.

She hops out of bed, and throws open the door...

THERE HE IS,

she runs into his arms.

EXT - The FUNERAL - NIGHT

The TWO OLD SLAVE.GRAVE DIGGERS are throwing the first shovelfuls of

dirt on Monsieur Calvin J. Candie's coffin.

The participants of this ritual, begin to move away from the grave. The

funeral is a private affair, just the Candie Family Unit, some of the

overseers, and the slaves. No one from town, except the Preacher.

The SLAVE MOURNERS begin. to move towards their living area, all saying

goodbye to Miss Lara. Miss Lara makes a big show of saying goodbye to

them.

A little cognizant of the Candie Family unit begin the walk off the

hill back to the big house.

EXT - BILLY CRASH'S SHACK - NIGHT

Django with Broomhilda. Billy Crash lies dead in the B.G., Stonesipher's

Buck Knife buried deep in his chest. He hands Broomhilda her papers.

Here's your bill of sale, and freedom papers.

No matter what happens to me, hold on to these

and get out of the south.

What's gonna happen to you?

Ain't nuttin' gonna happen to me honey,

I'm just sayin'. Now go to the stable, little

Timmy's got our horses .saddled. Your horse is

named Fritz. He's a damn fine horse. Meet me

around the side of the big house.

But what about you -

- Don't worry about me. I'll see you, with

Timmy and the horses, by the big house.

He sends her on her way.

Django looks up and sees the silhouettes of the funeral party walking

down hill heading back for the big house.

EXT - The TRAIL BACK TO The BIG HOUSE - NIGHT

The Family unit of The Late Calvin Candie and his sister Lara Lee walk

back to The Big House for a drink. This Candie Family Unit consists of:

LARA LEE (unarmed) in her black flowing funeral dress.

CORA (unarmed) her mammy, walks with Miss Lara, holding her hand.

STEPHEN. (unarmed) dressed in his fancy black velvet version of his

normal House Nigger outfit, walks on the other side of his mistress

Miss Lara, holding her other hand.

ACE WOODY (armed with a gun belt.around his hip) dressed in his Wyatt

Earp like funeral black suit, with the string tie, walks by himself.

LEONIDE MOGUY (armed with a gun belt around his hip) walks by himself.

BARTHOLOMEW (unarmed) dressed in his tight fitting business suit, with

his hat, walks alone.

BROWN and JINGLE BELLS CODY (both armed with guns on their hips) both

dressed slightly like cowboy peacocks, walk together.

and finally,

SAMSON and GOLDIE (unarmed) Calvin Candie's two prized mandingos,

wearing suits they borrowed from Bartholomew..

This CANDIE FAMILY UNIT walk to The Big House for a few post funeral

drinks.

They enter the lawn in front of The Big House, and head for the front

door.

Broomhilda on Fritz and Timmy riding on Tony come along the side of the

property by some shed. They see The Candie Family Unit, all dressed in

their darkest finery, walking towards the front steps of The Big House.

The woman and little boy stop. But the group of enemies aren't looking

their way.

The CANDIE FAMILY UNIT

moves closer towards the front of The Big House...

WHEN ...

The front of The Big House

EXPLODES!

knocking the.Candie Family Unit flat on their collective asses.

BROOMHILDA and TIMMY

can't believe their eyes.

WOOD - STONE - PLASTER - DIRT - DUST - GLASS - SMOKE - GUNPOWDER

hang in the air.

The CANDIE FAMILY UNIT

starts coming to their senses. Nobody was killed, or even seriously

hurt (unless you count eardrums), just stunned.

As their minds try and grasp with what just happened, their eyes look

up from the ground, and try and see through the smoke and dust.

The'SMOKE and DUST thins a little, and we see inside the smoke the

mansion has been obliterated, but The Big House front steps remain.

CUE cool MUSIC.

STEPHEN sees something in the smoke, squints.

ACE WOODY sees something in the smoke, squints.

BROWN and CODY see something in the smoke, squint.

In the SMOKE and DUST we begin to see a FIGURE, walking towards them.

ACE WOODY squints at the FIGURE.

MOGUY sees the.FIGURE.

CORA attending to Miss Lara sees the FIGURE, then MISS LARA sees it.

The FIGURE moves further out of the SMOKE and DUST.

ACE WOODY, on the ground, his hand starts to move towards the gun

around his waist.

Then he sees The FIGURE.is carrying something in his left hand...

.it's Floyd's Winchester, he raises it, and points it at Ace.

ACE WOODY's hand moves away from his gun.

The FIGURE steps out of the SMOKE. It's DJANGO dressed in his DJANGO

OUTFIT.

STEPHEN, ACE WOODY, MOGUY, LARA LEE, BARTHOLOMEW, CORA, BROWN and

JINGLE BELLS CODY, SAMPSON or GOLDIE...Nobody can believe Django's

standing there.

He stands at the top of the front steps of The Big House, looking down

at The Candie Family Unit, all lying on the front lawn, Winchester

rifle held casually in his left hand. His right hand held casually by

the gun on his hip.

The CANDIE FAMILY UNIT

all on their ass in the grass, look up at Django with a mixture of

Wonder, Fear, and Hate.

WE MOVE INTO A ROMANTIC CLOSE UP OF BROOMHILDA

as she watches this.

As DJANGO looks out at the ten stunned enemies spread out on The Big

House front lawn,. and as they look back from the grass at him.

The black man in the cool green jacket says;

I bet I.know what you're thinkin', Ace Woody?

You'.re thinkin', why didn't I'cut off that

niggers nuts when .1 had the'chance? Right?

I guess I shoulda'.

Yes you should of.

He points the Winchester at the people spread out on the grass.

Everybody stand up!

It's now Django who gives the orders. They stand up quickly.

Django, with the rifle pointing at them, just looks at The Candie

Family Unit. Enjoying their collective hatred.

THEN...

He tosses the rifle away.

Then moves his right hand by his gun belt in his holster, as he takes a

SHOWDOWN STANCE.

EVERYBODY realizes DJANGO's intentions.

Even BROOMHILDA and TIMMY.

DJANGO looks down from his position at the top of The Big House steps

at the ten people, and says;

All black folks, take ten steps away from

the white folks.

DJANGO's eyes go to STEPHEN, who looks back at him.

Not you Stephen. You're right where you

belong.

The Black Folks, Cora, Bartholomew, Samson, and Goldie begin taking ten

steps away from the White Folks and the gunfight.

LARA LEE can't believe Cora's leaving her.

CORA is "I'm sorry Miss Lara, but I never did nuttin' to that nigger."

DJANGO looks to STEPHEN, and takes Schultz's hidden Derringer out of

his pocket.

Let's see if you can handle this as well

as you can my nuts?

He tosses the Ole Man the tiny gun.

Somebody give Miss Lara a gun.

BROWN gives LARA LEE one. of his two guns.

Can I at least cock it for her?

Yep.

BROWN cocks back the hammer of the peacemaker, and puts it in her hand,

and points it towards the ground.

(to Lara Lee)

Okay Miss Lara, keep it pointed down till

the shootin' starts. Then bring it up as

fast as you can.

LARA LEE CANDIE-FITZWILLI can't come to grips with what she's.in the

middle of, who she's facing, what's in her hand, or what's about to

happen.

(to the six)

Make your play hillbillies.

The MUSIC SWELLS.

EVERYBODY, except for LARA LEE is READY:

DJANGO ACE WOODY

The PEOPLE watching on the side:

BARTHOLOMEW SAMSON BROOMHILDA

CORA GOLDIE TIMMY

EVERYONE'S ready, but no one wants to start this party...

TILL...

ACE WOODY starts to go for the gun in his holster, and STEPHEN starts

to raise his Derringer.

But it's no contest.

As soon as Django saw any movement from the six in front of him,

Floyd's Pistol was QUICKSILVER FAST in. his right hand, as his left hand

FANNED the Pistols Hammer, SHOOTING INSTANTLY all five White People (and

Stephen) standing in front of him.

They all fall to grass in different ways..

It was never any contest, they and WE (the audience) just didn't know

HOW GOOD DJANGO was.

DJANGO showing off his incredible FAST DRAW and ACCURATE MARKSMANSHIP

to Dr.Schultz.

Dr.SCHULTZ

You know what they're going to call you,

my boy? "The fastest gun in the South."

BACK TO SHOWDOWN

DJANGO stands on the top steps of what's left of'The Big House, looking

down at The Candie Family Unit, who all lay dead or dying on the

Candyland front lawn.

The WITNESSES can't fathom what they'just witnessed.

All the CANDIE FAMILY UNIT lies on the grass SHOT. But some are still

alive. We HEAR MOANING coming from LARA LEE, CODY, and MOGUY.

DJANGO sees this.

The Black Man reaches behind him and comes out with a DYNAMITE STICK.

He tosses it on the grass among the bodies.

He takes aim with his pistol; and FIRES.

It EXPLODES.

Finishing off what was left of the Candie Family Unit, not to mention,

blowing the limbs off of many of them.

The LAWN is SILENT.

DJANGO'S PISTOL goes back in its holster.

Django walks down the front steps of The Big House, feeling tremendous

satisfaction in the wrath he just wroth on Candie and Co.

He removes Dr.Schultz's tiny Derringer from Stephen's dead hand,

putting it in his pocket. Then heads over to where Broomhilda and Timmy

wait for him with Fritz and Tony.

As he,walks up to Broomhilda on Fritz, he says;

Hey Little Trouble Maker.

Hey Big Trouble Maker.

Down, boy.

Timmy hops off of Tony.

Django climbs aboard Tony. He says to Broomhilda;

I tole' you ain't nuttin' gonna happen

to me.

Yes you did.

Girl, you're gonna hafta start trustin' me.

I'll keep that in mind.

Django looks down to Timmy.

Thanks for the help, boy.

He reaches into his saddle bag, and pulls out an apple, and tosses it

down to Timmy.

That's for you. Good luck Tim.

(he points to

the Northern Sky)

The North star, is that one.

He looks to Broomhilda on Fritz.

You gonna hafta keep up, ya know?

You won't wait for me.

Better not.

You won't.

Better not.

You won't.

They kiss.

Then, astride Tony, Django leaves Candyland having rescued his

Broomhilda from her Mountain, her Ring of Hellfire, and all her

Dragons.

