EXT. DESERT - DAWN

FULL SHOT. The sun, spinning up from behind the dark rim of

eastern hills, is bleaching the cloudless, morning sky. This

is volcanic country, barren, desolate, forbidding. There is

no sign of life, no sound. Then on a distant hill, a man

appears, to be followed by two others. They walk steadily

forward.

EXT. NARROW CANYON - DAWN

MED. SHOT. A dry watercourse threads its way through the cut

in the treeless hills. The sun is not high enough as yet to

drive night from the canyon. A man appears around a bend;

another and still another. They are McCall, Peters and Lednov,

clad in prison clothes, hatless, their heads closely cropped.

As Lednov's face comes into a closeup,

EXT. HILL - DAWN

LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. A narrow valley lies below. Through

it runs a cottonwood-bordered stream. Smoke curls up out of

the trees. Horses graze in a small meadow near the creek.

From O.O. comes the SOUND of heavy boots crunching across

the dry, eroded earth. The three men file past camera to

stop in the immediate F.g. and look down into the valley.

They exchange glances and start down.

EXT. FORSTER CAMP - DAWN

MED. SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH willows. A bearded man, Cal

Forster, and two young fellows in their late teens squat

beside a campfire eating breakfast. O.s. there is the SOUND

of movement. Lednov moves cautiously into the scene. He has

a revolver in his hand.

Forster turns toward camera and fear comes into his

expression. Lednov fires. Forster crumples near the fire.

The two boys jump to their feet and reach for rifles. Lednov

fires again and again. McCall and Peters come into the scene,

both firing revolvers.

EXT. FORSTER CAMP - DAWN

MED SHOT - ANGLED ACROSS campfire. On the fire smoulders the

prison clothes the convicts had worn. Smoke spirals up. In

the B.B. Lednov, Peters and McCall, now wearing the clothes

of the three Forsters, saddle the horses. CAMERA PANS AROUND

and ANGLES DOWN. The bodies of Forster and his sons, now

clad in underwear are sprawled by the fire. Forster's arm

lies close to the smouldering clothing.

EXT. CREEK - DAWN

MED. LONG SHOT. Smoke climbs above the trees. Into the

clearing ride the three convicts, to cross it and move

westward. They disappear over the hill. A dust cloud marks

their passage. CAMERA HOLDS ON the scene and over the shot

comes the MAIN TITLE CARD:

EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY

LONG SHOT. A buckboard drawn by two horses comes along the

road. Graham, a middle-aged rancher, is driving. As the horses

trot forward and dust rises above the road, the NEXT TITLE

CARD is shown.

EXT. CREEK - DAY

LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. Graham's buckboard moves down the

road toward the clearing, as the TITLE CARDS follow and

change. When the buckboard reaches the creek, the LAST TITLE

CARD is ended.

EXT. MEADOW - DAY

MED. SHOT. Graham drives the horses through the creek and

into the meadow. Through the trees the Forster camp can be

seen. Graham glances over, then suddenly pulls on the reins.

As the horses stop, he twists the reins around the whip stock,

grabs his rifle from under the seat, leaps out and hurries

forward toward the camp.

EXT. FORSTER CAMP - DAY

MED. SHOT. Graham hurries through the trees to stop in horror

near the dead men. Then very slowly he moves forward to the

smouldering fire. Stooping he lifts Forster's arm away from

the fire, then picks up one of the prison coats and looks at

it.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY

MED. LONG SHOT. The surrounding hills are covered with scrub

pinon pine and mesquite. Graham's buckboard, moving slowly

up a hill, passes camera, which PANS WITH it. In the bed,

covered by a tarp, are the three bodies. The narrow, one-way

road climbs easily up the gentle hill. Beyond, a dust cloud

rises. As Graham's buckboard nears the crest, a surrey appears

and starts down. Graham pulls his team into the bank, trying

to make room for the surrey.

MED. SHOT

There are four women in the two-seated surrey, which is

heavily loaded with trunks, hatboxes, etc. Mary Wells, the

loveliest of the four, is driving. She is more poised, more

self-assured than the others. Her clothes, though a trifle

showy, are attractive. She wears a large spectacular hat.

Helen Carter, showier, harder and more cynical, sits beside

her. In the seat behind are Marcia Paine, placid, younger

looking than her years, and Elaine Ross, a striking blonde

with a pale haunted face. Elaine is obviously ill. Mary is

riding the brake and holding the team back.

ANOTHER ANGLE

SHOOTING PAST Graham.

He jerks on the reins and tries to make room for the surrey.

A steep bank is on camera left. On camera right, the road

drops off into a gulley. As the surrey comes up Mary reins

the team in. The women all look frightened. Graham, trying

to force his team to pull the vehicle up the bank, is too

occupied to recognize the women at once. Having made just

enough room for the surrey, he turns and looks at the women.

Mary looks ahead at the narrow road and the canyon to her

left.

Graham jumps over the wheel.

MED. CLOSE ON SURREY

Graham reaches the surrey.

She climbs out. Marcia looks at the narrow space ahead.

Elaine leans back against the cushions and shakes her head.

Helen is out on the road now. Mary has moved over and Graham

picks up the reins. Marcia gives up and jumps out.

He releases the brake.

Mary isn't listening. She is looking at the road. Elaine

closes her eyes. Helen and Marcia scurry back out of the

way.

Adroitly he drives the surrey past.

ANOTHER ANGLE

featuring buckboard. Helen and Marcia start along the road

past the buckboard. Helen stops and looks at its cargo in

horror. She grabs Marcia's arm. The girls look at each other

and hurry after the surrey which has stopped below the

buckboard.

MED. SHOT

on surrey. Graham jumps out.

Helen and Marcia hurry up. Marcia motions back.

The women exchange glances. Elaine is sitting up, her eyes

open.

As Mary speaks, Helen pushes Marcia into the surrey and climbs

up beside Mary.

Mary unwraps the reins from the whipstock.

Mary releases the brake and the surrey starts rolling forward.

The surrey starts down the hill. Graham looks after it, then

turns to go back to the buckboard, CAMERA PANNING WITH him.

EXT. ASPEN - DAY - (MATTE SHOT)

The town lies in a lush green valley. It is surrounded by

meadowland and shaded by cottonwoods, alders and aspen. In

the F.g. Graham's buckboard moves fast down hill.

EXT. ASPEN STREET - DAY DISSOLVE IN

FULL SHOT. In the F.g. a smallish crowd, mostly men and

children idle in the street in front of Mary Wells' Gambling

and Dance Hall. The wooden sidewalk is cluttered with those

articles belonging to the women that were too bulky to get

into the surrey. Several women stand on the porch supervising

the locking up of the place and the removal of the sign of

Mary Wells' name on it. Graham's buckboard rounds a corner

at a fast trot. He slows the team to let the people get out

of the way.

MED. SHOT ON BUCKBOARD

The team has slowed to a walk. The people give their attention

to the buckboard. A boy clambers up over the tailboard, sees

the cargo and jumps off with a frightened yell. The crowd

turns from the dance hall and follows the buckboard leaving

the women and their pious male assistants on the porch.

EXT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY

MED. FULL SHOT - ANGLED to include blacksmith shop across

the street. Far down the street comes Graham's buckboard

followed by the small crowd. The sheriff's office is a one-

story wooden structure. Next to it is the general store. In

front of the blacksmith shop stands a wagon with one wheel

off. In the corral alongside are eleven blooded mares. Clay

Phillips, his brother Steve and the blacksmith are inside

the shop. Clay's saddle horse is tethered to the hitching

rail beside two harnessed work horses.

INT. BLACKSMITH SHOP - DAY

ANGLED to include sheriff's office. The blacksmith, Sam Ellis,

an elderly bent man in a leather apron stands at the forge

in which he is heating the rim from the big wheel which lies

on the table nearby. Clay, a long-legged wrangler in clean

but faded work clothes stands near the forge pumping the

bellows and watching his brother, a freckled kid of sixteen

trying to roll a cigarette. Steve has progressed to the most

difficult step, that of licking and sealing the paper. Clay

reaches over and takes it from him. He puts the skinny

cylinder in his mouth and Steve lights it for him. The first

third of the cigarette burns with one quick flare.

Sam lifts the rim to the wheel.

Clay, the cigarette dangling from his lips, moves over to

the table, picks up a hammer and helps Sam hammer the rim on

the wheel. Steve stands watching.

Together they lift the wheel and plunge it into the tub of

water. Steam rises to fill the blackened shed.

Clay and Sam spin the wheel in the tub.

From O.s. comes the SOUND of the approaching buckboard and

crowd. Steve hears the noise and moves to the front of the

shed.

EXT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY

MED. FULL SHOT - Steve's angle. Graham pulls his buckboard

up, jumps out and hurries into the sheriff's office. Some

kids run up to stand on the porch chattering excitedly.

Members of the crowd straggle up.

INT. BLACKSMITH SHOP - DAY

ANGLED PAST Steve. Clay comes up to stand beside Steve. Sam

joins them. Steve looks up at Clay hopefully.

Clay and Steve exit. Sam looks after them, shrugs disgustedly

and goes back to the wheel.

EXT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY

MED. SHOT - featuring buckboard. The crowd around the wagon

stands in shocked silence looking at the bodies under the

tarp. Clay and steve come up, glance in the buckboard and

then at each other. Clay speaks to a man near him.

The sheriff calls from O.s.

ANOTHER ANGLE FEATURING PORCH

Sheriff Gardner, who has seen Clay through the window, comes

out of his office on to the porch followed by Jeb Graham and

a young deputy. In his hand Gardner holds the burned prison

jacket. Clay goes up the steps to the porch. Steve follows

to the foot of the steps to stand watching. The crowd around

the wagon gives its attention to the men on the porch.

MED. SHOT

Gardner is neatly dressed with his star hidden under his

coat. His deputy wears jeans, shirt, and leather jacket.

He pauses to let that sink in.

Gardner holds out the burned jacket.

Clay moves over to glance down at the jacket.

From his pocket, Gardner takes several communications, thumbs

through them and passes one over. It is a telegram, of the

period.

Clay reads it.

INSERT TELEGRAM OF THE PERIOD:

SHERIFF GARDNER: ASPEN, NEV.

BE ADVISED OF ESCAPE OF LEDNOV, PETERS AND McCALL CONVICTED

MURDERERS SERVING LIFE TERMS.

BELIEVED HEADED FOR CALIFORNIA.

L.B. GROVE, WARDEN STATE PENITENTIARY NORTON, NEV.

BACK TO SCENE. Clay hands the telegram back.

Clay nods.

He turns toward the steps.

Clay speaks over his shoulder as he goes down.

ANOTHER ANGLE

As Clay starts away, Steve follows him. Clay doesn't cross

to the blacksmith shop. He goes along the sidewalk toward

the general store. Steve hurries to catch up with him.

EXT. STREET - DAY

MOVING SHOT. Clay, deep in thought, seems unaware of his

brother at his side.

They walk in silence to the General store and Clay goes up

the steps and across the porch. Steve follows close behind.

FULL SHOT

The store is a typical general store of the period, selling

everything from buggies to baby clothes. In one corner is

the postoffice. The storekeeper, Hayes, is unpacking a case

of canned goods, stacking the cans on the shelf. Clay,

followed by Steve, enters. Hayes glances over.

MED. SHOT

Clay crosses to the shelf where the rifle and shotgun shells

are kept and takes down a half dozen boxes of 30 30

cartridges.

Besides Clay, Steve is inspecting a rack of guns.

Steve picks up a rifle, puts it to his shoulder and squints

along the barrel.

He pulls the hammer back and snaps the trigger. Hayes comes

across and takes the gun from him.

He hands Hayes some money for the shells. Hayes crosses to

another part of the store to get change. Clay and Steve, who

has picked up the rifle again, move over to the counter.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay grins. Hayes comes up with the change. Clay takes out

some bills and gives them to the storekeeper.

Steve's expression shows his gratitude and delight. He covers

up with banter.

He puts one of the boxes of shells on the end of the counter.

MED. CLOSE - DOWN ANGLE

He reaches down into one of the barrels in front of the

counter. The barrels are filled with beans, nails, dried

apples, hardtack, etc. Clay takes a handful of beans and

makes a trail ending in a little pile.

He puts another box of shells on the other side of the

counter.

He runs a trail of beans away from "Aspen" toward the end of

the counter. He runs another trail from "Alder Crick" to

cross the Aspen trail. He puts another box of shells on the

far end of the counter.

He reaches down without looking and brings up a hardtack.

Clay drops the hardtack back from where the bean trails cross.

He holds out his hand and Hayes hands him his change.

Steve tucks his gun under his arm. As he passes the counter,

he picks up the hardtack and starts eating it.

EXT. GENERAL STORE

MED. SHOT - ANGLED TOWARD Sheriff's office. Up the street

men are gathering around the sheriff's office. Some are

mounted. Some are tightening their cinches. Clay and Steve

come out of the store to look up the street. Steve munches

the hardtack.

He glances at the remaining piece of hardtack and then pitches

it away.

Clay laughs. As they start up the street, the sheriff mounts

his horse and, followed by his men, rides forward.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY

CLOSE SHOT. A woman's hat lies on the rocky earth. It is a

big, elaborate affair. O.s. there is the SOUND of hoofbeats,

the SQUEAL of a wagon brake and the JANGLE of harness. CAMERA

PULLS BACK and ANGLE WIDENS to reveal Clay's wagon coming

down a very steep hill. Steve is driving, holding tightly to

the reins and riding the brake. Seeing the hat, he yells to

Clay.

Clay rides over and, swinging down, picks it up.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED DOWN hill. The road twists tortuously down. Near the

bottom it swings sharply at right angles into a dry wash.

The banks shut out further view of the road. Near where the

road turns a trunk lies at the side. It has broken open and

some of the contents are spilled out in the dust. Clay rides

to it, reins in his horse and looks down. Steve, with

difficulty, pulls the mules to a stop alongside.

ANOTHER ANGLE

featuring trunk and wagon. Clay swings out of his saddle,

starts tossing the clothes back in the trunk. Steve jumps

down.

Steve holds up a petticoat close to his body and grins.

Clay takes it from him, puts it in the trunk and shuts the

lid. Steve helps him hoist the trunk into the wagon bed.

Steve gets back in the seat. Just as Clay is about to mount,

he stops and picks up a small folding daguerrotype case

delicately ornamented. He lifts his eyebrow, tucks the case

into his pocket, then mounts and starts ahead around the

bend.

MED. LONG SHOT

Clay's ANGLE. Ahead, off the road in the wash is the surrey

that passed Graham's buckboard at the fork. Clay spurs his

horse forward.

MED. SHOT

on surrey. The back wheel is broken and the bed of the surrey

rests on the ground. The horses have been taken from the

traces and stand dejectedly in the hot sun. A blanket is

spread in the scant shade thrown by the surrey. On it lies

Elaine and, sitting beside her, is Marcia. A damp cloth is

spread across Elaine's forehead. A water bag hangs from the

surrey. Elaine's head is pillowed on a dainty satin cushion.

Helen and Mary have risen at Clay's approach and now stand

by the road.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay gallops forward to pull up near the surrey. In the b.g.

Steve drives the wagon around the bend. Clay dismounts.

MED. GROUP SHOT

Clay drops his reins and hurries up.

Clay bends over Elaine.

Clay turns from Elaine and gives his attention to the surrey.

ANOTHER ANGLE

on rear of surrey. In the B.g. Steve pulls the wagon to a

stop, jumps off, and comes running over.

Helen moves toward Clay. She miles without humor.

Clay stops her with a look, goes around, and kicks the

unbroken back wheel. The spokes rattle.

She looks at him to see if the name registers.

Steve tugs at his battered hat.

Mary and Helen exchange glances.

Clay takes the makings from his pocket, starts to roll a

cigarette.

Steve looks at Clay hopefully. He likes the prospect of having

these lovely women along.

Clay finishes the cigarette, starts to put the makings back.

Mary holds out her hand. Clay gives her the makings. Mary

speaks as she casually rolls a cigarette.

Clay motions to the remuda that grazes in the b.g.

Mary has finished rolling her cigarette. She passes the bag

to Helen, who starts rolling one.

Helen has finished her cigarette. She passes the makings to

Steve. He hesitates, looks at his brother and, when he sees

Clay is occupied with Mary, starts rolling one.

Steve finishes his cigarette. Again he hesitates, then not

wanting to seem young in front of these women he takes a

bold step and lights it. Clay reaches over and takes it from

him. Mary watches the byplay.

Steve, embarrassed and hurt, turns quickly away. Helen looks

after the boy.

He lifts some things out of the surrey and carries them toward

the wagon.

She starts around the surrey. Helen follows.

Clay bends over Elaine.

As Clay turns from Elaine, Marcia joins the other two, their

attention on Clay and the surrey. Left alone, Elaine is

suddenly alert and no longer sick. She glances around, then

unobserved slides out from under the shade of the surrey.

ANOTHER ANGLE

on rear of surrey. In the B.g. Steve pulls the wagon to a

stop, jumps off, and comes running over. Elaine stands for a

moment, searching the ground with her eyes.

Helen moves toward Clay. She smiles without humor. With this

new diversion, Elaine, still unnoticed, starts away -- back

toward where they dropped the trunk.

Elaine stops now and turns as Clay takes the folding

daguerrotype case from his pocket. Elaine, her eyes wide and

frightened, starts back as Mary takes the case from Clay and

opens it.

She jerks the case from Mary's hands, snaps it shut, and

stands staring at Mary with a strange mixture of fright,

anger and hysteria. Mary glances around as if to say what-

did-I-do? To cover the embarrassed silence, Clay kicks the

unbroken back wheel. The spokes rattle.

Elaine glances at him as though he had insulted her, turns

and starts toward the blanket again.

She looks at him to see if the name registers. At the surrey

side, Elaine is abruptly weak again. She leans against it

for support. Mareia moves to her as she slides back down on

the blanket, clutching the case.

Steve tugs at his battered hat.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Mary and Helen come around the end of the surrey to where

Elaine lies. Mary bends beside the sick girl and lifts the

cloth from the girl's forehead.

The sick girl sits up. She looks around her dully.

Assisted by Mary, Elaine gets to her feet. Mary puts her arm

around her.

Elaine stops. She looks fearfully up at Helen.

She tries to lead the girl toward the wagon.

She pulls the girl with her toward the wagon.

MED. SHOT

on wagon. Clay, in the wagon bed, is stowing his gear in the

back. Mary, supporting Elaine, reaches the wagon. Seeing the

girls, Clay reaches down and gently lifts Elaine up. Mary

climbs in beside him.

MED. CLOSE

wagon bed. Clay has unrolled a bedroll under the seat where

there is a little shade.

As she speaks, Mary helps the girl down under the seat, then

rises to face Clay.

CLOSE SHOT

Elaine as she hears the name. She is shocked.

TWO SHOT

Clay and Mary. Clay vaults out of the wagon, CAMERA ANGLE

WIDENS, he looks up.

He turns away and hurries back to the surrey.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY

FULL SHOT. Dust rises over the road as the cavalcade moves

forward. Clay, rifle across his lap, rides in front. The

wagon, with Mary driving and Helen beside her on the seat,

follows. The two horses that pulled the surrey are tied to

the tail gate. Then comes the remuda with Steve bringing up

the rear.

CLOSE SHOT

Marcia and Elaine. PROCESS. Marcia sits in the bed of the

wagon looking back. Elaine lies under the seat.

CLOSE SHOT

Steve. Steve proudly carries his new rifle across his lap.

He whistles happily as he scans the desert country hopefully

for the enemy.

EXT. CAMP SITE - LATE AFTERNOON

FULL SHOT. Long shadows of the hills lie on the grassy meadow

along the stream that is bordered by cottonwoods and willows.

A knoll overlooks the camp site. The caravan can be seen as

it halts in the lush grass a few yards from the stream. The

girls sit lifelessly on the wagon; they seem too tired to

dismount. Then, finally, Marcia helps Elaine to climb stiffly

down. With the exception of Mary they all let themselves

down in the grass. Mary walks to the head of the team and

starts fumbling with the harness. Steve comes into the scene,

dismounts quickly and pulls the saddle off his horse. The

remuda has fanned out, the horses moving toward the water.

Steve crosses to Mary and takes over the job of unbuckling

the harness. Mary smiles gratefully and rubs her hand across

her face.

Steve straightens, looks towards the horses and moves off.

He speaks to Mary over his shoulder.

Mary smiles after him, then moves across the grass, CAMERA

DOLLYING AHEAD of her. She sinks to her knees in the patch

of sand by the stream and leans down and puts her face under

the water. Then, sitting up, she wipes the water and dust

from her face with a handkerchief. Clay rides up from behind,

dismounts, scoops up some water from the river in the brim

of his hat and drinks it. For a second he watches Mary.

Mary's manner is business-like. She and the girls are along

for the ride. She wants no favors -- wants to do her part.

He turns and leads his horse back to the wagon, stands there

unsaddling it. Mary rises.

She starts downstream.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED PAST wagon. Clay tosses the saddle into the wagon

bed, slaps his mare on the rump. She trots off. Climbing up

on the wheel, he gets the grub box under the seat and lifts

it down. Steve comes from out of scene and starts unharnessing

the team.

Clay comes past him, carrying the grub box. He puts it down

near where some stones make a crude firebox.

Clay squats by the stones and starts building a fire.

He fans the small flame with his hat. Steve leads the mules

down toward the stream.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED PAST Clay. In the B.g. Steve stands by the stream,

letting the team drink. O.s. the women can be heard laughing

and splashing. Steve gives all his attention to what is going

on downstream. Clay puts wood on the fire, opens the grub

box. He sees Steve, takes the coffee pot out of the box and

heads for the stream.

MED. LONG SHOT

ANGLED PAST Steve downstream. Behind the willows the girls

are bathing. However they are too far away to be seen clearly

and the willows make a fairly effective screen. Clay walks

upstream and fills the coffee pot, then comes back to stand

for a moment beside Steve. Steve, who hadn't seen Clay until

now, suddenly gets very busy giving all his attention to the

mules.

He jerks them from the water and leads them away. Clay frowns

after him, then goes back to the wagon.

MED. SHOT

on wagon and fire. As Clay passes the wagon, he reaches into

the bed and gets a couple of strips of scrap iron. These he

carries to the fire. He puts the iron strips across the blaze,

sets the coffee pot on, feeds the fire with some more wood,

then going back to the wagon, he takes his rifle out, throws

a shell into the chamber and starts off up the knoll.

EXT. KNOLL - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. It is a moonlight night. Clay squats on his heels,

smoking. The rifle lies across his knees. Below can be seen

the campfire, and the shadowy forms of the girls as with

Steve's help they make up a bed under the wagon and cook the

evening meal. Clay suddenly reacts as O.s. a horse whinnies.

Standing he looks off into the darkness.

LONG SHOT

ANGLED PAST Clay. In the moonlight the trail stretches back

over rolling hills. Faintly can be heard the SOUND of

hoofbeats. Below, where the remuda grazes, a horse whinnies

again. Clay moves down toward the camp.

MED. SHOT

the camp. As Clay approaches. Steve squats by the fire. He

has spread out a tarp in the circle of firelight and Mary is

setting the tin plates, cups, etc., out. Elaine, a blanket

around her, sits near the fire. She looks tired and ill.

Marcia and Helen are struggling with bed-making under the

wagon.

Steve and Mary look up as Clay strides up. Clay starts kicking

dirt over the fire.

Steve jumps up and hurries to the wagon. Clay continues

kicking dirt over the fire.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT)

LONG SHOT - ANGLES PAST horseman. The horseman, who has been

approaching from the east, tops a rise and looks off at the

camp. He is a shadowy figure in the palo dark. For a moment,

as the fire still blazes, figures are visible in the camp.

Then the fire goes out. The horseman dismounts, pulling his

rifle from his scabbard. Moving to his horse's head he puts

a hand on the animal's nostrils. He looks toward the camp

for a moment then starts cautiously along the road.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT)

MED. SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH willows PAST Clay and Steve. The

brothers have taken up a post overlooking the road. The

horseman walks cautiously toward them. He stops, listening.

Then he drops his reins and comes forward stealthily. The

horse stands.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Clay and Steve. Steve, finger on trigger gives Clay a

questioning glance. Clay shakes his head.

ANOTHER ANGLE

on road. The man, now seen clearly for the first time, stops.

He is Jim Clayton, a man in his twenties, chunky, round-faced,

stolid and not too imaginative. He wears the well-worn jeans

and blue shirt of the farmer. Clay and Steve come out of the

willows toward him. Both have their rifles ready.

Clayton hesitates, then lets his rifle butt drop to the road.

Clay and Steve lower their rifles.

Clay moves closer and extends his hand. They shake.

Steve shakes Jim's hand.

Clayton turns back toward his horse. Clay and Steve wait for

him.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT)

MED. SHOT - ANGLED BACK ALONG the trail. Mary and Helen,

tense and worried, stand at the edge of the camp, looking

off. Marcia is with Elaine under the wagon. From o.s. comes

the SOUND of men's voices. Clay, Steve and Clayton, leading

his horse, come into view.

CLOSE SHOT ON WAGON

Marcia kneeling on the tarp by Elaine, is staring ahead.

Suddenly her face lights up. She springs to her feet.

MARCIA'S ANGLE

Clay, Steve and Jim are now close to Mary.

Hearing his voice, Marcia runs toward them.

GROUP SHOT

Marcia throws herself into Jim's arms.

MED. CLOSE

Clayton kisses her.

Marcia hugs him. In the B.g. Clay goes over to the fire,

kicks the dirt off the embers and piles on wood. The fire

flares up.

TWO SHOT

Mary and Helen.

CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS as Marcia and Jim come forward. The fire

now burns briskly. Clay rejoins the group.

Mary speaks before Jim can answer.

The joy goes out of Marcia's expression. She looks up at

Jim, her eyes begging him to tell her it will work. Jim, a

naturally shy man, loses his tongue momentarily. Clay jumps

into the breach.

Mary turns on Clay.

TWO SHOT

Clay and Mary. The others in the b.g.

CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS as he turns back to the fire, embarrassed

by the spot he's in, and throws wood on it, Mary watching

him. Steve comes over to Mary.

Clay swings around and comes back.

Clay gives Steve a gentle push. Steve exits.

Jim, his arm around Marcia, moves closer. Helen is in the

B.g., watching.

Taking her arm he leads her to where the horse stands at the

edge of the camp.

ANOTHER ANGLE

featuring Marcia and Jim. In the B.g. Mary comes after them.

Jim and Marcia turn.

Marcia comes over to hug Mary. As Marcia and Jim leave, Mary

moves to Clay.

EXT. CAMP SITE - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Mary stands in the moonlight by the wagon, looking

out across the meadow. Below, near the creek, the horses

graze. There is the soft jangle of a bell as the bell mare

moves her head. Clay comes walking up from the creek, rifle

in hand. He passes without noticing Mary. Mary turns.

REVERSE SHOT

Mary in close F.g. The campfire burns low. Steve lies on his

stomach close to it. Clay stops beside him to glance down,

then moves on to sit on a rock above the fire. Mary starts

toward the fire.

MED. CLOSE

Steve. Open in front of him is a copy of Leslie's Weekly, a

woman's journal: pictures of baby basinettes, whale-bone

corsets, fancy oil lamps, etc. Mary comes into scene to stand

above him, looking down. Steve glances up and smiles.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED DOWN PAST Clay.

She glances up where Clay sits.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He listens, perturbed.

MED. SHOT

Mary and Steve.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He winces at!

MED. SHOT

Mary, Steve and Clay. Behind them, Clay rises and comes down

nearer the fire.

She gives him a quick look of inquiry.

Steve looks up, then rises reluctantly.

Steve exits. Mary looks after him, then up at Clay.

Clay kicks loose embers into the fire.

Clay turns from the fire to stand above her.

He pauses, looking down.

Clay moves out of the circle of firelight to stop and pick

up his rifle, tarp and blanket, then climbs the knoll. Mary

stares into the fire, then rising she starts toward the wagon.

EXT. KNOLL - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT

MED. SHOT. Clay reaches the top of the knoll and stands

looking off. Below him the campfire burns low. Mary reaches

the wagon.

EXT. WAGON - MOONLIGHT - NIGHT

MED. SHOT ANGLED PAST Mary TOWARD Clay. Mary stops, looking

up. A match flares as Clay lights a cigarette. O.s. there is

the SOUND of the bell mare's bell, the SOUND of horses moving

restlessly. Mary turns, looks under the wagon.

MED. CLOSE DOWN ANGLE

Elaine is gone. Helen is asleep. Mary drops to her knees on

the tarp and shakes Helen in wakefulness.

Helen sits up and looks over at Elaine's side of the bed.

Mary straightens, moves down past the wagon, CAMERA PANNING

WITH her. She calls softly.

MED. CLOSE

Clay. He looks down toward the wagon as Mary calls Elaine's

name again, this time louder.

Clay frowns, pitches his cigarette away and starts down toward

the wagon.

MED. CLOSE

Steve. He is sitting up, pulling on his boots. From under

the bedclothes he takes his rifle and starts toward the wagon.

MED. SHOT

wagon. Clay stands with Mary at the wagon as Steve comes up.

Helen is sitting up in bed, a comforter pulled around her.

She starts away into the darkness.

Mary turns back.

Clay picks up his saddle and bridle.

He starts down toward the meadow. Steve follows. Helen

scrambles out from under the wagon.

EXT. CREEK - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT

Clay stops by the creek. Behind him the fire smoulders near

the wagon. Mary's shadowy figure can be seen climbing the

knoll where Clay's bedroll is. Helen is near the fire.

Steve nods and splashes across the creek to follow the road

leading west. Clay starts toward the meadow where the horses

graze.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT)

MED. SHOT. Steve moves slowly along the road away from camp.

He is scanning the dust for Elaine's footprints.

EXT. KNOLL - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT)

LONG SHOT - ANGLED PAST Mary. Mary stands on the knoll looking

off. Far below, in the meadow, Clay saddles his horse.

EXT. MEADOW - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT

MED. SHOT. Clay swings into the saddle, and rides east. O.s.

Mary calls:

As the call echoes across the hills.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT)

MED. SHOT. This is rough country, the rocky hills covered

sparsely with scrub pinon pine and brush. Steve stands on a

rise. He looks around for a moment, then turning starts back

down the slope. Suddenly he stops and listens, as from O.s.

comes the SOUND of distant sobbing.

CLOSE SHOT

Steve. He listens, trying to locate the sound then he hurries

down into a dry wash.

EXT. WASH

Steve crashes through the brush into the wash, to stop beside

Elaine who sits with her head buried in her arms, sobbing.

MED. CLOSE

Steve and Elaine. Steve drops on his knees beside her. Elaine

doesn't look up. Steve shakes her.

Elaine doesn't move.

He pulls her up.

CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS as he tucks her arm in the crook of his

own and starts up the other side of the wash.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve, holding Elaine's arm, scrambles up the bank and through

the brush.

He stops and looks off. Faintly O.s. is heard the SOUND of

hoofbeats.

He shoves the girl down.

LONG SHOT

their ANGLE. Over a hill comes a horseman to be followed by

another and then a third.

CLOSE SHOT

Steve and Elaine.

Excitedly he swings the rifle to his shoulder and fires.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT

FULL SHOT - Clay reins his horse in and turns to look off in

the direction from which the shot came. Faintly o.s. another

shot echoes across the hills, then another and another. Clay

spurs his horse and gallops off.

EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT

Clay gallops up the hill to rein his horse in suddenly.

MED. LONG SHOT

his ANGLE. Riding toward him are several horsemen. The horses

move at a walk. One carries a double burden. Steve walks

along behind. Clay spurs his horse and rides down toward

them.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay, in the B.g., comes down the hill. The horsemen, seven

of them, with Sheriff Gardner in the lead, followed by a

deputy, carrying Elaine in front of him, file past camera.

Steve, hands in his pockets, walks dejectedly in the dust

cloud kicked up by the horses.

MED. SHOT

featuring Clay and Gardner. Clay reins in his horse beside

Gardner, who also stops. The others rein in. Steve stops a

short distance away.

Clay rides closer. The deputy rides forward and lifts Elaine

into his arms. Clay settles her in front of him.

There are two rifles in his saddle holster. He pulls Steve's

out, hands it over.

Clay shoves it in his saddle holster.

He wheels his horse and rides off, followed by the others

Clay watches him go. Reluctantly Steve moves slowly up to

stand near Clay.

He reins his horse around.

Clay looks back.

EXT. TRAIL - DAY FADE IN

EXTREME LONG SHOT. West are the Sierras and clouds are piled

in untidy heaps on the range. The dusty trail runs through

rolling country. Pinon pine and brush clothe the slopes. The

wagon and horses are the moving center of a white cloud of

dust.

FULL SHOT

Clay's party. Clay rides in the lead. The wagon follows and

Steve is riding beside the wagon. Behind is the remuda, and

the horses are straying off the road in search of grass.

MED. SHOT

wagon - (MOVING). Featuring Steve and Mary. Elaine lies under

the seat and Helen sits beside her. Steve is reciting the

alphabet to a simple melody usually sung by children of six

or seven.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He turns in his saddle where he rides ahead of the

team. He notices Steve riding at Mary's side and reins in

his horse.

MED. SHOT

Steve and Mary. Steve stops his letters. looks off. The wagon

moves up to Clay and stops.

Steve hesitates hoping he'll change his mind.

Steve wheels his horse and rides back. Mary looks over at

Clay.

He wheels his horse and rides after Steve.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve is driving the horses back into the road. Clay rides

up to help him. The horses fall in behind the wagon. Steve

takes up his position in the rear. Clay rides over beside

him.

MED. SHOT

CLAY AND STEVE. (MOVING)

They ride in silence for a moment.

ANOTHER ANGLE

One of the horses strays out of line and Clay rides out and

gets the animal back in the road. Then he returns to Steve.

TWO SHOT - (MOVING)

Steve looks over at his brother and finds a wry grin.

Steve smiles warmly at him.

EXTREME LONG SHOT

Cavalcade. It moves through dry barren hills. Far off, the

Sierras rise against the sky Thunder heads are piled in untidy

heaps on the range.

EFFECT SHOT DISSOLVE IN

sky. Dark rain clouds blown by a high wind. SOUND of thunder.

FULL SHOT

rain -- the caravan. Clay leads it through a rain that has

filled the ruts in the trail, soaked the horses to glistening

black -- and obscures all view of the country through which

they are passing. SOUND of rain falling is loud. Clay and

Steve both wear slickers, gleaming from their shoulders to

the rumps of their horses. Mary, a tarp around her shoulders,

drives. Elaine and Helen huddle under a tarpaulin in the

wagon bed.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

rain -- DOWN ANGLE -- wagon moving. Elaine sits up and, in

her delirium, throws off the tarp. Helen tries to pull her

down.

CLOSE SHOT

rain -- Clay. He wheels his horse at the SOUND of Helen's

voice and rides back through the rain toward the wagon.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

rain -- wagon. Mary pulls on the reins and the mules stop.

Twisting them around the whip-stock, she swings back into

the wagon bed. She looks up at Clay.

In her anxiety, her tone is accusing. Clay drops the reins,

climbs into the wagon and bends down beside Elaine. He puts

his hand on her forehead.

MED. CLOSE

rain - DOWN ANGLE - featuring Clay and Mary.

He starts fixing the tarp so it gives more protection to the

sick girl.

ANOTHER ANGLE

rain. Clay vaults out of the wagon and mounts his horse.

Mary rises and climbs back into the seat. She lashes the

mules with the reins. The wagon jolts forward.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

rain - ANGLED ACROSS seat - (MOVING). Clay rides alongside.

Then, without a word, he strips off his slicker, tosses it

on the seat and rides off. Mary looks after him, then at the

slicker. She hesitates, not wanting to take favors from him.

Then she pulls the slicker around her. Taking the whip, she

hits the mules. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS and CAMERA HOLDS. The

team breaks into a trot. The cavalcade moves away from camera

through drenching rain.

EXT. WYATT RANCH - DAY

LONG SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH gate in barbed wire fence. The

ranch is nestled in a valley at the base of the Sierras.

Green meadowland surrounds the farm buildings which consist

of a cabin, barn and sheds, all in good repair and white-

washed, as are the corral fences and the picket fence around

the house, which stands in a clump of trees. The wind has

pushed the clouds back over the hills, but far off there is

still thunder. The gate in front f.g. is of barbed wire. It

is closed. On the fence post a board is tacked. Neatly

lettered on the board is the name:

From o.s. comes the SOUND of horses moving restlessly and

the creaking of saddle leather, as a man swings out of the

saddle. Footsteps approach. A man's head and shoulders, back

to camera, comes into scene. He unloops the strand of bailing

wire and lets the gate fall open, then turns and we see his

face. He is Lednov. His cheek and jowls have a dark growth

of beard. He wears a black leather jacket and a wrangler's

grey hat. The clothes Forster was wearing. As he moves back

to his horse, CAMERA PULLS BACK and PANS AROUND.

His companions, McCall and Peters, also wear black leather

jackets, sombre, dusty pants and hats. They are mounted on

matched roans. The horses are winded, lathered and dirty. It

is obvious they have ridden hard. Lednov strides forward and

as he reaches for the reins the horse shies away. Brutally

he jerks on the reins. The horse rears. He snatches his hat

from his head and whacks the horse across the nose. McCall

rides over and grabs the reins. Lednov scrambles into the

saddle.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED TOWARD gate. Lednov rides forward through the gate.

His horse is limping badly. The others follow. They do not

stop to put the gate back up.

EXT. TRAIL - DAY

LONG SHOT. Clay's cavalcade moves forward along the trail.

There are cloud patches overhead and faintly in the back

country thunder rumbles. The mules pull the jolting wagons

forward in a slow trot. Clay rides ahead. Steve and the remuda

follow.

EXT. WYATT RANCH - DAY

FULL SHOT. Lednov, McCall and Peters ride into the yard and

up to the horses' trough. The horses plunge their muzzles

deep into the trough. As the men dismount, Wyatt, a sinewy

little man, hurries from the direction of the barn.

MED. SHOT

at horse trough. Wyatt, smiling his pleasure, comes up as

the three men dismount.

He extends his hand to Lednov. Lednov ignores it. The three

men are looking around them. Two work horses, fat and elderly,

amble across the corral to nuzzle the roans through the fence.

Wyatt is a little taken aback by Lednov's manner.

Wyatt frowns up at Lednov, angered by the order.

McCall and Peters move closer to Wyatt, who glances around

worriedly. Realizing he better do as he's told, he goes to

the roan and rubs his ears.

Bending, he lifts the horse's hoof. Lednov, McCall and Peters

watch him. He drops the hoof, straightens.

Wyatt hesitates. Lednov steps toward him.

He picks up the roan's reins and starts leading him into the

corral. Lednov, with a jerk of his thumb, indicates that

McCall is to go with him. McCall follows. Lednov and Peters

turn toward the house.

ANOTHER ANGLE

As Lednov and Peters start for the house, Mrs. Wyatt, a woman

of about fifty, small, plump, browned from the sun and hard

from work, comes out on the porch. She has taken off her

apron and holds it in her hand. She smiles at the two men.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED PAST Mrs. Wyatt. She starts down the steps as Lednov

and Peters come up.

At his tone, the welcoming smile leaves her face. She looks

from one to the other. Lednov pushes past her up the steps

and into the house. Mrs. Wyatt follows him with her glance.

McCall motions.

EXT. TRAIL

LONG SHOT. In the f.g. the cavalcade moves along the trail.

Now the Sierras back of the Wyatt ranch are much closer. The

sun has set but it is still light.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY

MED. SHOT. Peters sprawls on the ground, smoking. He looks

up as Wyatt and McCall cross from the direction of the barn.

Wyatt goes on past and hurries up the steps.

INT. RANCH HOUSE

ANGLED PAST Wyatt. This is the main room of the house -- a

living room and kitchen combined: wood-stove against one

wall, a sink with a pump against another, a fireplace, some

simple furniture and, hanging from one of the rough walls, a

concertina. Through an open doorway can be seen the Wyatt's

bedroom. Another door, closed, leads into the second bedroom.

The house has a warm, well-scrubbed look. Wyatt enters.

Mrs. Wyatt, stoking the stove, turns. She glances nervously

in the direction of the bedroom. Wyatt shifts his glance to

the fireplace -- there is no gun hanging from the hooks above

the mantel. Lednov appears in the doorway of the bedroom.

He crosses to the fireplace. He is carrying Wyatt's rifle,

gun belt and six gun.

Wyatt has had as much of this as he can stand. He starts

angrily across the room.

She crosses to him and stands in his way. Wyatt pushes past

her and grabs for the guns. Lednov gives him a swipe with

the back of his hand, knocking him away easily.

Mrs. Wyatt helps Ed to his feet. She puts an arm around him.

Lednov crosses to the cupboard and opens it. Finding the box

of shells, he slips it in his pocket.

Wyatt and his wife look at each other. Then meekly they obey.

EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT DISSOLVE IN

MED. SHOT. Here the trail starts down into the valley. From

o.s. comes the SOUND of the cavalcade approaching. Clay rides

into the scene and stops on the hilltop to glance ahead.

LONG SHOT

Clay's ANGLE. A light can be seen ahead in the valley.

REVERSE ANGLE

Clay turns and rides back toward the wagon. The mules have

slowed to a walk in the climb up the hill.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

on wagon - (MOVING). Clay rides up alongside. Mary is hunched

forward on the seat.

He glances down into the wagon bed where Helen is sitting by

Elaine.

Clay rides back toward the rear.

MED. FULL SHOT

The wagon reaches the crest of the hill. Mary hits the mules

with the reins. The mules break into a trot. Behind, the

remuda comes into view. Clay sits his horse by the side of

the trail and watches.

EXT. FARM HOUSE - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Mrs. Wyatt stands by the stove, watching the three

men at the table. Wyatt sits in a chair by the stove.

Lednov pushes his chair back and rises.

Wyatt and his wife exchange frightened glances. That's the

last thing they want.

With the fingers of his right hand he automatically rubs his

shoulder just above the heart.

Grudgingly, McCall gives in. They exit. Wyatt stares after

them raging at his impotence.

EXT. CORRAL - NIGHT

MED. FULL SHOT. The three men mount their horse, dig their

spurs in and ride away. As they ride toward the gate, Wyatt

comes out on the steps.

EXT. TRAIL - NIGHT

LONG SHOT. Here the trail passes through a narrow draw, then

climbs a small rise which overlooks the gate. Clay's caravan

jogs along the trail.

EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT

LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. The caravan climbs toward camera.

CAMERA PANS AROUND to SHOOT DOWN TOWARD the Wyatt ranch.

Through the gate ride Lednov, McCall and Peters. They stop

for a moment then turn right and trot along the fence line.

As they disappear, the SOUND of the caravan's approach is

heard o.s.

EXT. WYATT RANCH - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT)

MED. FULL SHOT. Clay gallops into the yard and swings out of

the saddle. The farmhouse is dark.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

ANGLED THROUGH window, PAST Wyatt. Clay opens the gate and

hurries up the steps and across the porch.

EXT. PORCH - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Clay raps on the door.

The door opens. Wyatt comes out. He pumps Clay's hand.

In the kitchen a match flares as Mrs. Wyatt lights the lamp.

Mrs. Wyatt comes out to stand in the doorway. She shakes

Clay's hand.

He turns and motions off.

LONG SHOT

ANOTHER ANGLE. Clay, Wyatt and Mrs. Wyatt in f.g. The wagon

is coming toward the yard followed by the remuda.

THREE SHOT

Clay, Mrs. Wyatt and Wyatt. O.s. the wagon and horses can he

heard.

She turns back into the kitchen. Clay looks after her, then

hurries down the steps. Wyatt follows his wife inside.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Wyatt goes to the stove and starts stoking the fire. Mrs.

Wyatt takes the lamp from the wall bracket and goes into the

bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

FULL SHOT. It is a pleasant room with a large, handmade,

double bed, white flour sack curtains at wide windows. Mrs.

Wyatt puts the lamp on the dresser. Going to the bed she

pulls back the covers, feels the sheets.

MED. SHOT

Turning from the bed, she crosses to the dresser. Beside the

dresser is a camel-back trunk. She starts to open a dresser

drawer, pauses and looks down at the trunk. Moving to the

trunk, she hesitates. Then making up her mind, she bends

down and throws open the trunk.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

DOWN ANGLE. A girl's clothing is neatly packed in the trunk.

A framed picture is face down on top of the clothing. Mrs.

Wyatt kneels by the trunk, pushes the dresses aside and finds

a nightgown. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS as she rises and shakes it

out. It is frilly, dainty, very feminino; obviously the

nightdress of a young girl. She closes the trunk, turns and

as she goes to the bed, Wyatt comes through the door carrying

the towel-wrapped stove lid. She lays the nightgown on the

bed, takes the stove lid and puts it between the sheets.

Wyatt is staring down at the garment.

They face each other. Wyatt reaches out and takes the

nightgown.

Wyatt opens the trunk, puts the nightgown in and closes the

lid.

The slamming of a door o.s. interrupts them. They turn and

start for the door.

She follows Wyatt to the doorway, CAMERA DOLLYING WITH her.

She stops in the doorway.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

ANGLED PAST Mrs. Wyatt. Clay, carrying Elaine, bundled in

blankets, comes forward. Wyatt has stopped just inside the

kitchen. Mary and Helen follow Clay through the door.

She stops, staring at the girl.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

The Wyatts in the doorway. They recognize the girl. Wyatt's

expression hardens. Clay, carrying Elaine, pushes between

them into the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Clay carries the girl to the bed and gently puts

her down. Her eyes are closed. Slowly the Wyatts enter the

room to stand close together staring at the girl on the bed.

Clay suddenly realizes that something is wrong. He glances

up. Elaine opens her eyes and looks up at her mother and

father.

Wyatt doesn't move.

As Clay waits, Wyatt moves through the door unable to argue

back.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

FULL SHOT. Mary and Helen stand close to the steve, looking

anxiously toward the bedroom door as Clay and Wyatt come

out. Clay closes the door. Wyatt, dazed by the shock of seeing

his daughter again, stands momentarily staring at the closed

door. Then very slowly he turns and looks at Helen and Mary.

MED. SHOT

his ANGLE. Mary and Helen, seeing the two men's expressions,

look from one to the other, puzzled.

He crosses to the kitchen door, exits, slamming the door

behind him.

Turning from them, he exits. Mary and Helen look at each

other. Then Helen grins wryly and goes over to the cupboard.

EXT. CORRAL - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Wyatt in the f.g. stands by the horse trough. His

face is set, his expression hard, unyielding. Clay comes

across the yard past the wagon. Wyatt doesn't look at him as

Clay comes up.

TWO SHOT

Clay and Wyatt. Clay takes the makings from his pocket, rolls

a cigarette, lights it.

O.s. Steve whistles the tune of the A B C song as he comes

out of the barn.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve approaches from the barn.

TWO SHOT

Clay and Wyatt. Clay takes the making from his pocket, rolls

a cigarette, lights it.

O.s. Steve whistles the tune of the A B C song as he comes

out of the barn.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve approaches from the barn.

Steve comes up.

He starts whistling again as he continues toward the wagon.

MED. SHOT

wagon. Steve picks up a couple of valises and some blankets

and heads for the house, still whistling. In the b.g. can be

heard the mutter of voices as Clay and Wyatt talk.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Helen is sitting at the table, eating a piece of bread and

drinking coffee. Mary stands at the window. Steve is heard

coming up the steps and across the porch. He pushes the door

open and enters.

Mary turns from the window.

Steve stands with his arms full, looking at Mary.

She crosses to him and smiles wryly.

Steve hesitates.

Steve exits.

EXT. PORCH - NIGHT

MED. CLOSE. Steve stops on the porch. He is puzzled, worried.

He glances back then over toward the fence where Wyatt and

Clay are talking. He shrugs and starts off toward the wagon.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Mary crosses to the stove.

Mary lifts the stove lid and puts a stick in the firebox.

She motions to the bedroom door.

Footsteps across the porch. The two girls look toward the

door.

ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT

SHOOTING PAST Mary. The door slowly opens. Wyatt enters. He

crosses to the bedroom door, CAMERA PANNING WITH him. It is

as though he doesn't see the two women. He stands in front

of the door, staring at it. Then his hand moves to the knob.

Slowly he turns the knob and opens the door. The two girls

watch him as he hesitates on the threshold. Then he enters

and closes the door softly. Helen looks over at Mary and

smiles.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

MED. SHOT as Wyatt stops, looking at Elaine, resting back

against the pillow, seeming very young in the nightgown. For

a moment it is difficult to know what is in Wyatt's mind.

Then he sees the twin tintypes. CAMERA MOVES TOWARD Wyatt's

face as tears come to his eyes.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

MED. SHOT as footsteps cross the porch and the screen door

creaks open. Clay enters the kitchen, carrying the girls'

suitcases and some blankets. He nods to the girls, then goes

to the door leading to the other bedroom. There he stops.

As he carries their belongings in:

INT. MARY'S AND HELEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT DISSOLVE IN

The room is lighted only by the moonlight. Mary and Helen

are in the big four poster bed, close to the window. Clay's

footsteps are heard on the porch. The kitchen door closes

softly. There is the rattle of a stove lid being lifted.

Mary slides out of bed and slips into a robe.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Clay turns from the stove to the cupboard over the sink and

takes down a coffee cup. The door into Elaine's bedroom is

closed. The door into Mary's bedroom opens and Mary enters

the kitchen. He turns back to the stove and fills his cup as

Mary comes up.

He picks up his coffee and goes out on the porch. Mary

hesitates, then follows.

EXT. PORCH - NIGHT

ANGLED PAST Clay. Mary comes out. Clay sits on the bench by

the door, drinking his coffee.

Mary crosses to stand above him.

Mary sighs, sits beside him. From the pocket of her robe she

takes tobacco, rolls a cigarette and lights it. She passes

the tobacco to Clay. He rolls one.

Mary strikes a match and holds the flame to his cigarette.

Mary rises to move to the edge of the porch.

MED. CLOSE

Mary in f.g.

Turning, she leans against the post that supports the porch.

Clay puts his cup down, looks up. She is very lovely standing

in the moonlight, her body arched back, the robe open a

little.

Straightening, she crosses the porch to pause momentarily

close to Clay.

She enters the house. Clay looks after her, smiling faintly.

He knows she is up to something but not what.

INT. SECOND BEDROOM - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Save for the moonlight coming through the window,

the room is dark. Mary enters softly, throws off her robe

and slips into bed beside Helen.

MED. CLOSE

on bed. Moonlight falls across the bed. Mary pulls the covers

up. Helen turns her head.

Mary snuggles down on the pillow.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

MED. LONG SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH window PAST Mary. The early

morning sun fills the yard. Steve is in the corral harnessing

the mules. Clay and Wyatt are taking Mary's and Helen's trunks

out of the wagon.

Mary, who was in profile, turns.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Helen is seated at the table. Mary stands with her back to

the window near the sink.

Mary comes over to stand by the table. Her expression is

thoughtful.

Helen rises. Her manner is determined.

CLOSE SHOT

as she stops, apparently inspired by Mary's last remark. She

looks out into the yard where Clay is working on the wagon.

ANOTHER ANGLE

SHOOTING TOWARD Elaine's bedroom door. Helen crosses to Mary.

She puts her arm around Mary's shoulder.

As she speaks she edges Mary to the door leading outside.

Mary smiles at her, shrugs and exits. Helen looks after her.

Mary's footsteps are heard going down the steps. Then Helen

swings around and going to Elaine's door, opens it.

INT. ELAINE'S BEDROOM

MED. SHOT. Elaine is sitting up in bed. There is a small

table by the bed and on it is a breakfast tray. Mrs. Wyatt

sits by the bed. Elaine looks happy for the first time. Mrs.

Wyatt is holding a cup to her lips. Helen enters and closes

the door.

Crossing to the bed she takes the cup from Mrs. Wyatt.

As she pushes Mrs. Wyatt toward the door.

She closes the door behind Mrs. Wyatt and comes back, sits

on the edge of the bed and holds the cup to Elaine's lips.

Elaine tries not to show her panic at this suggestion.

Elaine pushes the cup away, sits up straighter.

Elaine buries her head in the pillow.

Elaine sits up and grabs Helen's arm.

The door opens and Mrs. Wyatt enters. She hurries over to

the bed, pushes Helen aside, and takes the sobbing girl in

her arms.

Mrs. Wyatt flares at Helen.

Turning, she goes to the door.

She exits.

INT. KITCHEN

MED. SHOT. Leaving the door open, Helen enters the kitchen.

She glances back at the bedroom, half smiling, then crosses

to the window and looks out.

EXT. YARD

ANGLED past Helen THROUGH window. Clay is crossing the yard

toward the house.

INT. KITCHEN

MED. SHOT. Helen turns from the window and walks hurriedly

to the second bedroom door. Clay's footsteps cross the porch.

Helen enters the bedroom and closes the door as Clay comes

in. Clay looks around, then seeing the open bedroom door,

crosses to it.

INT. ELAINE'S BEDROOM

ANGLED PAST Clay in doorway. Mrs. Wyatt is holding the sobbing

girl in her arms. She looks over at Clay.

Then realizing that something is wrong he steps into the

bedroom.

MED. SHOT

Hearing his voice, Elaine lifts her head from her mother's

shoulder.

Clay looks from one to the other, frowning. Elaine tries to

get out of bed. Her mother holds her.

Turning, he exits. Mrs. Wyatt holds Elaine close.

EXT. PORCH

MED. SHOT. Helen stands on the porch in the sunlight. She

glances back. Clay, his expression hard and angry comes out.

He doesn't look at Helen but stalks down the steps toward

the wagon.

MED. SHOT ON WAGON

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay comes toward the wagon. Helen stands on the porch.

Clay appears behind her. Mary turns and smiles.

He catches Clay's glance and his face falls.

Steve gets some courage. He comes over to his brother and

faces him.

He pauses; Clay waits.

Clay moves past them toward the corral. Mary looks after

him, then turning, motions to Helen. Helen starts toward the

wagon.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay's horse stands saddled at the fence. He vaults into the

saddle, turns the horse.

He rides off. Steve, delighted, runs to start loading the

girls' things. Helen hurries into the scene.

MED. CLOSE

Mary and Helen. Mary smiles at Helen.

Helen nods, looking at Mary as though in admiration.

EXT. WYATT RANCH

LONG SHOT - the wagon, followed by the remuda and with Clay

riding ahead moves slowly up the canyon back of the ranch.

EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY FADE IN

LONG SHOT - ANGLED WEST. The forest is fairly open, yellow

pine, lodgepole and fir. To the West can be seen the bald

red granite domes of the higher range. O.s. there is the

SOUND of the cavalcade approaching. CAMERA PANS AROUND and

ANGLES PAST. Toward camera, comes the cavalcade, climbing

slowly. Far in the distance and down can be seen the waste

of desert and the barren hills of Nevada. Clay, a rifle across

his legs, is riding on one side of the wagon. Steve rides

beside Mary, who is driving. The remuda trails behind. Helen,

lying in the wagon bed, cannot be seen.

MED. TRUCKING SHOT

ANGLED PAST Steve. Steve has a copy of Leslie's Weekly open

on the pommel. Helen lies full length in the wagon bed,

occupying herself by giving herself a manicure with an orange

stick.

Clay glances over at his brother. Mary sees him watching.

Their eyes meet. She smiles. He doesn't return the smile.

He sighs and scowls down at the page. He puts his finger on

a word and starts to spell it out.

Mary starts to protest -- Steve goes on.

REVERSE SHOT

ANGLED PAST Clay.

He touches his horse with his spurs and rides on ahead.

MED. CLOSE

ANGLED PAST Mary. Steve in the b.g. Mary looks after Clay,

puzzled, wondering. Then she looks over at Steve.

EXT. FOREST TRAIL

Here the forest has thinned out. The trail climbs a rise,

then drops down. Clay jogs along the trail, his rifle across

his knees. As he reaches the edge of the forest at the crest

of the rise, he suddenly pulls his horse to a stop, swings

around and rides back into the trees. Throwing the reins

over the horse's head, he swings out of the saddle and moves

cautiously to the crest of the hill.

LONG SHOT

Clay's ANGLE. The trail leads down through open country to a

big meadow ringed with lodgepole pine, and across the meadow

to start climbing toward another, higher range of hills.

Three horsemen on roans, Lednov, Peters and McCall, are

crossing the meadow slowly.

MED. SHOT

DOWN ANGLE. Lednov, Peters and McCall as they ride across

the meadow.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay, as he peers down. He cocks his rifle. The voices of

Mary and Steve and the SOUND of the approaching wagon can be

heard o.s. Clay turns his head.

FULL SHOT

the cavalcade. Mary and Helen are in the seat of the wagon.

Steve rides alongside.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He lowers his rifle, waves at them to stop and be quiet,

rises and hurries down the hill, CAMERA PANNING WITH him.

EXT. MEADOW

MED. SHOT of Lednov as he pulls in his limping horse, steps,

looking back over his shoulder as though he sensed an

unfamiliar presence. The other two watch him, frowning. Then

he shrugs and glances down at the bad leg of his mount.

As they start away, moving slowly toward the trees in the

distance...

MED. FULL SHOT

Clay motions to Mary to stop as he hurries toward the wagon.

Mary reins in the mules.

EXT. HILLTOP - DUSK DISSOLVE IN

LONG SHOT. Clay, in close foreground, stands, leaning on his

rifle. The sun has set and the valley below is in shadow.

There is the silence of dusk. No wind stirs the trees. There

is some light outlining the high mountains -- treeless crags

and domes and spires. Clay turns.

REVERSE SHOT

Down the hill in the forest, is the wagon. Beyond it the

horses stand. Steve is stretched out on his stomach studying

his magazine. Helen is sitting on a tarp playing solitaire.

Clay starts down the hill toward the camp.

MED. SHOT - UP ANGLE

Clay walks through the trees. As he comes around a big yellow

pine, he stops suddenly and looks down.

MED. CLOSE

ANGLED DOWN PAST Clay. Mary lies on the carpet of pine

needles, her head pillowed on her arms, her dress pulled

taut across her chest. She is looking up through the trees

at the fading sky.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay stares down at Mary. She does not look at him. She is

aware of his presence, but she doesn't show it. In the soft

light of dusk she is very lovely. Clay is conscious of her

lovliness. He would like to drop down beside her.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. She turns her face to look at him. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS.

Clay stands above her, looking down. For a moment their eyes

meet. Clay starts away. CAMERA HOLDS ON Mary.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED PAST Mary, who rises slowly. Clay looks back,

hesitates, then crosses to where the horses are tethered and

starts saddling his mare. Mary moves down toward him through

the trees.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay tightens the cinch. Mary moves up to stand beside him.

He swings into the saddle, pulls the rifle out of the scabbard

and lays it across the pommel.

He touches the mare with his spurs and trots down the hill.

He disappears around a bend in the trail.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Mary, in the f.g., is staring after Clay. Helen is watching

her. Steve has risen and walks up behind her. He smiles at

her.

She starts down toward the wagon, Steve walking beside her

and CAMERA TRUCKING WITH them THROUGH the forest.

Mary glances over.

They have passed Helen, playing solitaire on the canvas, and

have reached the place where the grub box stands. Steve

spreads a tarp for her.

Mary sits down. Steve opens the grub box and takes out some

plates, tinned food and hardtack.

He hands her a plate of food, takes another and goes over to

Helen.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Helen looks up from her card game, takes the plate with a

smile.

He grins at her, turns and comes back to Mary who is watching

him.

Steve sits on the edge of the grub box and picks up his plate.

Mary shakes her head.

Steve looks over at her, embarrassed, a little hurt by her

tone. He rises, takes Mary's empty plate and his own and

goes over to the little spring to wash them. Mary looks

sharply at Helen. Helen shrugs. Mary rises and follows Steve

over to the spring.

MED. CLOSE ON SPRING

Steve kneels by the little pool, washing the plates in the

run off. Mary stops above him.

She kneels beside him. Steve looks over at her.

She looks down at the water bubbling up into the little moss

lined pool.

EXT. TRAIL - NIGHT

CLOSE SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. O.s. there is the SOUND of the

cavalcade moving. A wheel passes camera, then another. CAMERA

PULLS BACK to reveal the wagon passing in the moonlit

darkness. Mary is driving.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay rides into the shot, his rifle ready. The wagon follows.

Then the remuda with Steve bringing up the rear. Steve also

holds his rifle ready. Both men are wary, watchful,

apprehensive.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

FULL SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. SHOOTING DOWN THROUGH the leaves of

a quaking aspen. The cavalcade moves on along the trail.

EXT. ROCKY HILLSIDE - DAWN

FULL SHOT. The east is grey with the approaching dawn. The

terrain is treeless, forbidding. Granite crags rise all

around. The trail leads up through a canyon then narrows

along the edge of a cliff. The cavalcade toils forward. Clay,

in the lead, stops and waits for the wagon to come abreast.

MED. SHOT

As the wagon comes abreast, Clay dismounts, loops the reins

over the tail gate, then swings up into the seat, motioning

for Mary to move over. He takes the reins, puts his rifle

down in front of him.

MED. CLOSE - MOVING (PROCESS)

Clay and Mary. Helen is sleeping in the bed of the wagon.

Mary glances ahead.

She picks up the rifle and holds it across her knees.

Mary glances over at him wonderingly.

They ride along in silence for a moment. The trail is rough.

The jolting wagon throws them together. Their shoulders touch.

Mary studies him, trying to figure out what he means.

Clay is busy with driving down the rough road. He speaks

without looking at her.

CLOSE SHOT

Helen. She lies in the bed of the wagon, looking up.

She waits for an answer, but getting none, continues.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MOVING (PROCESS)

Clay and Mary. Clay busies himself with the brake and the

reins.

MED. LONG SHOT - ANGLED AHEAD

Clay and Mary in f.g. The trail now goes down a slope to a

river, which boils out of a narrow canyon, then follows the

river through the canyon. Clay hands the reins to Mary, takes

his rifle.

MED. SHOT

Clay swings down. The wagon moves past him. He frees his

horse, swings into the saddle and gallops down toward the

canyon.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. She looks after him.

FULL SHOT

The wagon moves down toward the river. Clay disappears into

the canyon. Steve and the remuda follow the wagon.

EXT. CANYON TRAIL

ANGLED TOWARD mouth of canyon. Clay rides along the trail,

his rifle at the ready. Now he moves warily, keeping a sharp

lookout. The canyon is dark, sinister.

REVERSE SHOT

The cavalcade enters the canyon.

ANOTHER ANGLE - SHOOTING DOWN

Clay rides toward camera. The trail curves around a cliff.

MED. SHOT

Clay. He rides around the bend in the trail. He hears

something. He reins the horse in. Some pebbles rattle down

the cliff. He looks up.

FROM CLAY'S ANGLE

The muzzle of a rifle is visible. Clay starts to bring his

gun up.

DOWN ANGLE

Clay lets his rifle rest across his knees. He looks up.

Fowler, a well-set-up young man in jeans, blue shirt and

worn jacket and wearing a battered hat, moves into scene.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He is wary, puzzled as to the man's identity. For all

he knows it may be one of Lednov's men.

MED. SHOT

Clay and Fowler.

MED. LONG SHOT

SHOOTING PAST Fowler. Into view comes the wagon and the

remuda. Fowler lowers his rifle. He slides down the cliff to

stand beside Clay.

MED. CLOSE

Clay and Fowler.

He extends his hand. Clay shakes it.

He motions ahead, starts walking. Clay rides beside him.

EXT. MEADOW

FULL SHOT. The river is beyond the meadow. In the pine forest

at the edge of the meadow is Fowler's camp. The cavalcade is

driving up to the camp. There are two horses tethered in the

meadow.

EXT. FOWLER'S CAMP

MED. FULL SHOT. A tarp is stretched over the camp. There is

a crude stone fireplace, a rough table and two benches.

Shelves are nailed between the trees. In a small lean-to

there is a bunk with Fowler's bedroll on it. Fowler stands

watching Mary and Holen as they get out of the wagon. The

horses sproad out across the meadow. Steve and Clay dismount.

Both unsaddle. Helen, Mary and Fowler exchange glances. Then

the two women walk toward the camp, which is behind a screen

of trees.

MED. CLOSE ON CAMP

Helen and Mary enter the camp.

She goes off and across the meadow. Mary looks after her,

shrugs and going to the fireplace, takes moss and twigs from

the pile and puts them in. Clay, carrying saddle bags and

canteens, enters.

He puts them down, goes over to the fireplace and kneels to

light the moss. Mary has stepped back.

CLOSE SHOT - LOW

As he lights the fire, the lower portion of Mary's body comes

into the shot. Clay becomes aware of her closeness. He rises

slowly. CAMERA ANGLES UP. Mary is standing facing him, almost

touching him. They stare at each other without speaking.

Both suddenly move togother. They kiss. There is a SOUND

over shot and they step apart, looking off.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve has come into scene and is looking at them. He smiles

with pleasure and surprise.

Steve nods, smiles at both of them and goes out of scene.

Clay and Mary face each other. Suddenly Clay swings around

and goes out of shot after his brother.

CLOSE SHOT - MARY

She looks after him, clearly in love, disappointed that they

were interrupted. Then she turns to the fire.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Clay and Steve. CAMERA MOVES AHEAD of them as they walk toward

the wagon. Steve has begun to whistle blithely. Clay looks

sideways at him. Steve whistles even louder. They stop at

the wagon. CAMERA HOLDS. Steve climbs inside and hands down

the grub box.

Clay puts the grub box on the ground. Steve tosses out the

bed rolls, then jumps out. He grins up at Clay.

MED. CLOSE

Clay, embarrassed, puts his hand on the boy's shoulder.

Steve watches him, puzzled. His exuberance has gone.

Abruptly Clay turns and indicates the grub box. Steve watches

him.

Steve nods and carries the grub box out of the scene. Clay

stares after him. Then he picks up the bed roll and moves

around the wagon.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay in the f.g. In front of Clay stretches the meadow with

the river beyond. The horses are grazing in the meadow. Fowler

can be seen hurrying toward the aspens and alders that screen

the river.

EXT. RIVER BANK

MED. SHOT. Here the river moves quietly down. The bank is

sandy. Alders and aspens screen it from the meadow. Helen

sits on the sand taking off her shoes and stockings. Her

toilet box is beside her. Something on the bank catches her

attention, she rises and climbs the bank. Some branches of

aspen cover an object. She pulls the branches away, revealing

a crud, miner's cradle or rocker.

MED. CLOSE

Helen stares down at the cradle. She doesn't know what it

is.

Helen, startled, turns.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Fowler and Helen. They stare at each other.

She glances from Fowler to the cradle.

Hurriedly he covers it with branches again. Helen watches

him, curious, interested.

When Fowler doesn't explain she moves on down the bank and

sits on the sand.

Fowler comes over and sits down beside her. He takes [a]

sack of tobacco and papers from his pocket. She reaches for

them. He watches her wide-eyed as she rolls a cigarette. He

holds a match for her.

She turns to the toilet case on the sand beside her, takes

out a comb. He glances at the box, then reaches over and

from it takes her powder box. He sniffs it. Without

irritation, as though borrowing a toy from a child, Helen

takes the powder box from him.

She looks at him then up the bank where the cradle is.

Fowler hesitates. Helen hands him back the powder box as

matter-of-factly as she took it. He accepts it gratefully,

again putting it to his nose. Now he looks up at her,

regarding her calculatingly for a moment or two. Their eyes

meet.

He reaches to his throat and lifts over his head a braided

loop of rawhide. Attached to the loop is a small, plump,

soft-leather poke. Still holding the powder box, he passes

her the poke. She starts to work with the thong.

Helen still struggles with the thong. He takes the poke,

pulls it open, pouring grains of gold into his palm. Helen

looks at the shining heap in his hand. Then she takes the

poke and pours some of the grains in her own palm. She looks

down at it. Her expression is calculating. She looks up at

Fowler and then the hard look goes away. She gives him a

soft smile.

EXT. MEADOW

CLOSE SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. Mary is asleep in the shade of a

pine. She lies on a tarp using a folded blanket for a pillow.

It is very quiet. She stirs, opens her eyes. Her expression

changes. A soft smile plays around her lips as CAMERA ANGLE

WIDENS and we see Clay sitting near her, leaning against the

bole of a pine. He isn't looking at her. Mary watches him

for a moment.

Clay looks over at her. Then rising he moves closer, squats

and rolls a cigarette. He holds it out. She licks it, then

puts it in her mouth. Clay lights a match, holds it out. She

catches his hand and holds the flame to her cigarette.

She still holds his hand. They look at each other.

Clay doesn't answer.

She holds his hand, smiling up. Clay hesitates, then desire

for her is more than he can bear, so he takes her in his

arms. They kiss, holding the kiss for a long while.

ANOTHER ANGLE

They break. She lies looking up. He half lies, half sits

beside her.

For answer, Clay kisses her again -- hard, ruthlessly. His

hands crush her shoulders. Mary holds the kiss for a moment,

then draws back, waiting for him to say the words she wants

to hear. His hands pull her toward him. Mary wants the kiss --

but she also wants a declaration of love. She makes one last

try to get it.

Clay's grip on her shoulders tightens. She searches his face

with a glance -- stares into his eyes -- then pushes him

away and sits up.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. She is hurt by his silence.

CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS. Clay's expression hardens. He drops his

hands from her shoulders.

She stands. He rises to face her.

Turning she starts down toward camp.

MED. LONG SHOT

ANGLED PAST Clay. Below is the camp. Beyond the camp, through

the trees, stands the wagon and Steve is hitching up the

mules. Clay hesitates, then follows.

CLOSE TRUCKING SHOT

Mary. Tears form in her eyes. She blinks them away, composing

herself with an effort.

EXT. CAMP

MED. SHOT - Helen and Fowler in f.g. Helen sits at one side

of the table, Fowler on the other. Helen holds the soft

leather poke. In the b.g. Mary approaches. Behind her comes

Clay.

Helen pours the gold out in her palm as Mary comes up. Mary

stands looking down.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay enters the scene and goes over to pick up his saddle

bags.

She reaches over and pats Fowler's hand.

Mary looks from Helen to Fowler.

Mary stands looking down at Helen. Lovingly Helen pours the

gold back in the poke.

Clay, saddle bags in hand, straightens. Mary directs the

rest of the speech at him.

Helen juggles the poke in her hand.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve has entered the camp and is standing looking at them

open-mouthed. Mary moves over to Fowler and holds out her

hand.

Clay moves up beside Mary.

MED. CLOSE

Clay, Mary and Fowler.

He moves on past her, motions to Steve.

Steve hesitates.

He stalks away, followed by Steve. Mary turns and looks after

him.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. She wants to break windows.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Mary, Fowler and Helen. Helen is staring at Mary. She crosses

to her and puts her arm around her shoulders.

Mary throws her arm off and moves after Clay and Steve. Helen

looks at Fowler and shrugs.

MED. SHOT

the wagon. As Mary hurries up to stand by the tail gate,

Clay and Steve, now mounted, spur their horses and start

across the meadow.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. She stares after them, raging. Then she glances at the

wagon.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Mary in f.g. The mulos stand in their traces, waiting. Mary

makes up her mind what to do. Climbing into the bed, she

heaves out pack saddles, bed rolls, ropes, etc. Clay and

Stove can be seen in b.g. riding down toward where the horses

graze.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED TOWARD camp. Into the scene come pack saddles, bed

rolls. Helen and Fowler, in b.g., walk toward the wagon.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

wagon. Mary straightens, looks off, then climbs into the

seat and picks up the reins and the whip. She lashes the

mules with the whip. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS. The mules jump and

gallop off. Fowler and Helen come into the scene.

ANOTHER ANGLE

the wagon, pulled by the galloping mules, is disappearing in

a cloud of dust.

MED. SHOT

the meadow. Clay and Steve have almost reached the horses.

Steve turns.

Clay swings around.

LONG SHOT

their ANGLE. Mary drives the wagon around a bend in the trail.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

ON Clay. He glances after Mary, then reins his horse around

and gallops after her, CAMERA PANNING WITH him.

EXT. TRAIL

MOVING SHOT. Mary drives the wagon along the trail. Ahead

beyond the river, the mountains rise. The river is running

bank full. The trail leads down to a rocky, dangerous bank.

Mary pulls the mules in at the bank.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. She looks toward the river. She is frightened, about

to abandon the whole foolish enterprise. She glances back.

LONG SHOT

FROM Mary's ANGLE. Clay gallops around a bend in the trail.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. She looks in Clay's direction, then turns and stares

at the river.

MED. SHOT

ANGLED PAST Mary. She makes up her mind to go through with

it and lashes the mules with the whip. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS.

The mules balk when they reach the river. Mary lashes them

again. They jump forward into the torrent.

REVERSE SHOT

Clay gallops toward the river. Steve comes around the bend

in the trail.

MED. FULL SHOT

the river. The mules flounder, start swimming. The current

catches the wagon. It starts drifting downstream. Mary whips

the mules. They swim, the current pulls them. Then the wagon

goes over. Mary is thrown into the water. The mules kick

themselves free and swim to the other bank. Mary goes under,

comes up and starts swimming desperately. Clay rides into

the SHOT. His mare hesitates at the bank. Clay spurs her and

she plunges in. Mary's belongings can be seen floating down

the river.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay swims his horse toward Mary who is floundering in the

stream.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary. The current sweeps her against a rock. Stunned -- she

goes under.

MED. SHOT

Clay swims his horse to her, reaches down and lifts her up

in front of him.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay's horse, with the double burden, fights her way out of

the stream and scrambles up the bank to stop on level ground.

MED. CLOSE

Clay and Mary. Clay, his expression anxious, stares down at

the stunned Mary. He swings out of the saddle, holding her

tenderly to him. The brush with death has made him realize

how much she means to him. Gently, he puts her down on the

sand, stoops beside her.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Clay and Mary in f.g. Steve swims his horse across and rides

up the bank to dismount near them.

MED. CLOSE - DOWN ANGLE

Mary opens her eyes and sits up

Mary is humiliated, bedraggled and wet, still angry and

fighting back tears.

Mary gets to her feet. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS. Steve stands in

the b.g. She looks out at the river.

ANOTHER ANGLE

to include wagon in river. Clay, suddenly furious, points to

the wagon.

This is the last straw. Mary turns her back, digs into her

stocking and pulls out some bills. She hands them to him.

Clay looks at Mary, then down at the money.

He turns and sees Steve standing scowling at him. He takes

the rest of his anger out on Steve.

Clay strides over to his horse and swings into the saddle.

Steve stands looking at Mary.

As he plunges his horse into the stream:

EXT. RIVER

FULL SHOT - the lower ford. Where the main road crosses the

river, it flows gently, with sand banks on either side. Three

horsemen appear around a bend in the trail and ride down to

the riverbank. They are Lednov, McCall and Peters. Lednov's

horse is limping badly. They ride into the river.

REVERSE ANGLE

The horses swim to shore and flounder up the bank, Lednov's

horse last. As the horse starts up the bank Lednov sees

something o.s. and reins the horse in.

MED. SHOT

FROM Lednov's ANGLE. A piece of clothing floats down the

river. Lednov rides down the bank into the water. He reaches

down awkwardly and gets the piece of clothing, then turns

and rides back up the bank.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The two others have turned and are watching him. He rides up

to them, holding out one of Mary's undergarments.

He turns to scan the river.

ANGLED PAST THEM - AT RIVER

Mary's trunk comes floating by. The three men look at each

other, then Lednov turns his horse and starts up the bank of

the river. The others follow.

EXT. PEAKS OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS

EXTREME LONG SHOT. The long pine-covered approaches, and the

glistening summit; the early snow covering the rocks with a

thin layer of white. CAMERA PANS DOWN FROM the heights of

the mountains, TO the narrow trail that winds among the trees.

Clay passes, and behind him the pack-horses and the romuda.

Following the remuda comes Mary. She is dressed in a pair of

Steve's pants and wears one of his shirts under her own coat.

MED. SHOT

Mary, as she swings with the movement of the horse. She is

tired. She wears no makeup. But she looks as unaffectedly

beautiful as we have ever seen her.

MED. FULL SHOT

the trail. It turns steeply, doubling back, and new Clay is

directly above her. He looks down at her, but she disregards

his glance. We feel that he might speak, but her cold

restraint prevents him. The wind whistles through the trees.

The slow plodding noise of the horses becomes more distant.

EXT. UPPER FORD - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT

MED. FULL SHOT. Lednov, McCall and Peters ride slowly through

the brush to where the trail enters the river. Downstream,

wedged in the rocks is the wagon. The three men look at the

wagon, then turn to look back along the trail.

LONG SHOT

their ANGLE. Fowler's campfire flickers through the trees.

MED. CLOSE

the three men. They look at each other. Lednov motions in

the direction of Fowler's camp. They start back along the

trail.

EXT. MEADOW - NIGHT

FULL SHOT. The three men ride along the trail toward the

camp. Through the trees the campfire flickers.

EXT. FOWLER'S CAMP - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Fowler is putting the supper dishes up on the

shelves beside the fireplace. The camp is cleaner than it

was earlier in the day. It is evident that he has gone to

great pains to make his visitor comfortable.

A mirror has been tacked up on a tree, and under it is a

wash basin. Fowler's rifle and shotgun are in a rack near

the fireplace. Helen's trunk stands open near the lean-to.

Helen, wearing a robe, takes some clothing from it, closes

the trunk.

Fowler turns and smiles. Helen pushes through the curtains

into the lean-to. Fowler puts the last of the dishes on the

shelf, crosses to the trunk and moves it over to the side of

the lean-to. Turning to go back to the fireplace, he stops.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Fowler in the f.g. Lednov, rifle in hand, stands just inside

the camp on the meadow side.

Lednov moves slowly forward to stand near the table. He looks

around him. Fowler starts slowly toward the fireplace.

Trying to be casual, Fowler moves closer to where the guns

are racked.

He has edged closer to the gun rack. Lednov seems unaware

that he is near the guns. His interest is centered on the

lean-to. He moves to the entrance, stands with his hand on

the canvas.

Lednov pulls back the flap. His back is to Fowler, who starts

quickly for the tree, only to stop as McCall comes out from

behind it.

Fowler drops his hands to his side. Lednov turns, grins at

Fowler, and enters the lean-to.

INT. LEAN-TO - NIGHT

The shelter is dark. Lednov strikes a match and looks around.

The place is empty. There is a bunk, made up. On the left

hand wall a curtain of gunny sacks covers the clothes hanging

there. The match burns down to Lednov's fingers. There is a

SOUND of a scuffle outside a blow, and a groan. Lednov drops

the match and hurries out.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

Lednov comes out of the lean-to. Fowler is sprawled by the

table. McCall stands over him, rifle raised.

EXT. BACK OF LEAN-TO - NIGHT

MED. CLOSE SHOT. Helen stands flattened against a tree.

Cautiously Helen starts moving away.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Fowler pulls himself to his feet. Mac stands near

him.

Fowler sinks on a bench, his head in his hands. Lednov moves

closer.

EXT. FOREST - MOONLIGHT

MED. SHOT. Helen cautiously moves away from the camp.

A twig snaps underfoot. Helen freezes.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Lednov is staring off in the direction of Helen.

McCall moves to the edge of the lean-to, looking off.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

MED. CLOSE SHOT. Helen starts forward again, more cautiously

than ever. She reaches a tree, turns to look back.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Helen, back to camera, is in immediate f.g. Through the trees

can be seen the camp and the flickering fire. She turns, and

then fright comes into her expression.

REVERSE SHOT

Peters stands in front of her. As he reaches out for her,

she tries to get away. He grabs her, wrapping his arms around

her.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. From o.s. comes the SOUND of Helen and Peters

struggling. Fowler, hearing the SOUND, gets to his feet.

Lednov and McCall turn on him.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

MED. SHOT. Peters, carrying the struggling Helen, heads for

the camp.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

ANOTHER ANGLE. Fowler makes a futile dive for Lednov. McCall

swings his rifle. Fowler goes down. In the b.g. Peters drags

the struggling Helen around the lean-to into the camp.

He moves forward to meet Helen and Peters. Lednov reaches

out for Helen. Peters pulls her away.

McCall has taken his attention from Fowler and gives it to

Helen. Unnoticed now, Fowler is struggling back to

consciousness. He tries to pull himself up. McCall turns

back and kicks him again.

She rakes Peters' face with her fingernails, tries to fight

free. Lednov reaches out and grabs her arm. Peters knocks

his arm down. Free for the moment, Helen launches an attack

on McCall, who is getting ready to boot Fowler again. She is

on him like a cat, swarming all over him. He defends himself.

Helen is yelling furiously as she fights McCall.

Lednov has reached her now. He wraps his arms around her and

pulls her away from McCall. Helen tries to fight him.

Lednov pinions her arms.

Helen doesn't answer. Lednov starts twisting her arms.

As the pain increases she blurts out Clay's name.

In a fury, Lednov crushes her arm.

He hurls her from him. She goes back against the table. Fowler

is trying to struggle to his feet. In blind rage, Lednov

raises his gun and fires. Fowler crumples. Helen looks down,

too horrified and terrified to scream. Lednov looks at her,

then almost casually he shoots her. McCall and Peters stand

watching as though frozen.

AS HE TURNS,

EXT. OPEN RIDGE FADE IN

MED. FULL SHOT - ANGLES east. Behind the ridge rises the

range through which the pass to Nevada cuts its way. The

trail which has dipped down into a canyon comes up to follow

the ridge a ways and then drops down again. Lednov, McCall

and Peters ride along the trail. Lednov, in the lead, stops

suddenly and looks off.

EXTREME LONG SHOT

DOWN ANGLE from Lednov's point of view. Far below is a meadow

and crossing it is a wagon road. This is the road from

Yosemite to Sonora. The road comes down the hill to the south

and, as the forest is open at this point, anything approaching

along the road can be seen for some distance. It crosses the

meadow and continues into the northwest. In the meadow is a

snake-rail corral. Clay's pack train comes out of the woods

above the meadow and starts down.

MED. SHOT

McCall, Lednov and Peters. Lednov motions to his men and

they hurriedly ride forward into the shelter of some trees.

MED. SHOT

the pack train. Mary, half asleep, slumps forward. Her horse

has stopped. Steve rides up alongside and looks over at her,

anxiously.

Mary starts into wakefulness. She smiles at Steve.

He rides on ahead. Steve looks after him, annoyed, then

follows with Mary.

EXT. MEADOW

Clay leads the pack train out into the clearing and toward

the road. A small creek threads its way through the meadow.

Clay rides up to the creek and swings out of the saddle. He

is taking the saddle off as the others ride up.

He throws the saddle down, takes his rifle out of the

scabbard. Steve doesn't move.

He starts off past Mary, glances up.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Mary leans wearily forward on the pommel, too tired to

dismount.

Mary looks down at him. She is hoping he will reach up and

lift her down.

He turns a way abruptly and goes toward the road. Mary looks

after him, disappointed. Steve comes over and helps her down.

MED. SHOT

Steve and Mary. Steve spreads a tarp on the grass.

Steve goes back and starts unpacking the horses. Mary looks

off in Clay's direction, then stretches out and pillows her

head on her arm. Now the sun is coming up and driving the

darkness out of the meadow. In the distance Clay can be seen

climbing up on a rise.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He climbs up on an eminence and looks back toward the

hills.

LONG SHOT

his ANGLE. The open ridge. There is no sign of Lednov.

ANGLED PAST CLAY

INTO the meadow. Steve has unpacked the horses. They graze

inside the crude corral. Steve is collecting wood for a fire.

Clay hurries down toward him.

MED. SHOT

Steve squats beside the pile of needles, twigs and pine cones.

He strikes a match and sets the needles aflame. Clay hurries

into the scene and roughly kicks the fire out. Steve rises.

Steve is ashamed of his thoughtlessness and for a moment is

apologetic.

Clay turns and goes over to where the packs lie. He kneels

beside the pack, rummages in them for hardtack and tinned

food. Steve looks after him.

CLOSE SHOT

Steve. He is hurt and angry. Knowing he was in the wrong

about the fire doesn't help matters. He'd like to go off in

the woods and cry, but that's out of the question. Instead

he follows Clay and stands above him.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Clay speaks without looking up.

Clay spreads the food on a tarp, sits down and starts eating

a hardtack.

Steve stares down at him angrier, more hurt than ever.

[As this scene continues, there is heard, faintly o.s. the

SOUND of little bells, the kind that teamsters put on the

hames of their horses. Over the hill, in the direction of

Yosemite, a stage is approaching. It is coming slowly uphill.

Soon it will be visible on the rise about a mile south of

the meadow.]

ANOTHER ANGLE

SHOOTING TOWARD Steve and Clay PAST Mary. She is asleep.

Clay rises and stands facing Steve.

Steve's voice rises during this speech. In f.g. Mary stirs

and opens her eyes. Then she sits up.

Mary has risen. She is listening to Steve. She is also

listening to the bells.

LONG SHOT

her ANGLE. Over the rise comes the stage. It is still a long

way off.

ANOTHER ANGLE

to include all three. The brothers still don't see Mary.

Clay is ashamed but won't show it. He puts his hand on Steve's

shoulder and pushes him.

Steve swings for his chin. Clay ducks the blow, grabs Steve's

wrist. Steve swings with his left, hitting Clay ineffectually.

Clay pins Steve's arms to his side.

She walks toward them as Clay releases Steve and steps back.

Steve puts his hands up, making ready for another round.

Steve turns abruptly and moves away. He is on the verge of

tears.

She motions off. Clay is suddenly aware of the approaching

stage. He looks in that direction.

LONG SHOT

FROM his ANGLE. The stage drives along the road.

She turns and starts going through the kyacks, looking for

her things. Clay frowns down at her.

Mary's attention is on the kyacks. From where Clay stands

near her he can see the trail leading down through open

country toward the meadow.

Something o.s. catches his attention, then he pauses to look

off.

EXT. TRAIL

LONG SHOT - his ANGLE. Up on the ridge there is the flash of

sun on metal.

EXT. RIDGE

MED. SHOT. Lednov, McCall and Peters ride through the trees.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He looks up anxiously, then turns. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS

to include Mary and she straightens and faces him, her back

to the trail.

He bends down and picks up her things.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The stage has speeded up and is coming fast down the road.

Mary looks up at Clay hurt and shocked by his sudden

sharpness. She had hoped he wouldn't let her go.

He starts off, Mary following.

MED. CLOSE TRUCKING SHOT

Mary makes one last attempt to get him to change his mind.

He waves for the stage to stop.

ANGLED PAST STAGE

The driver sees Clay waving and pulls the horses in. The

stage moves down to the edge of the meadow.

MED. SHOT

The stage. It is a small one, a double-seated buckboard with

one woman passenger and the driver an elderly man. On the

side of the vehicle is painted: "Yosemite-Sonora Stage Line".

The woman, middle-aged and rather drab, looks at Mary

curiously.

He jumps out of the stage and follows Clay, carrying Mary's

belongings, around back of the stage. Mary gets into the

stage beside the woman who moves over for her.

ANOTHER ANGLE

on back of stage. The driver opens the boot and Clay hands

him Mary's belongings. He starts stowing them in the boot.

Clay starts scribbling a note. In the b.g. Steve has moved

up beside the stage. He stands looking up at Mary.

MED. CLOSE

featuring Mary and Steve.

Mary reaches down and takes his hand.

Steve's expression hardens. He glances toward the back of

the stage, then at Mary.

Clay and the driver come around the stage. Steve steps back.

The driver climbs into the seat. Clay and Mary look at each

other.

Before Clay can speak, the driver snaps his whip and the

stage jerks away down the road. Mary doesn't look back. Clay,

in f.g., looks after it. Dust rises. It disappears around a

bend in the road. Clay turns and starts across the meadow.

Steve looks after Clay, hesitates, then follows.

MED. CLOSE

as Clay reaches the spot where the kyacks and saddles are

thrown. Steve comes up to him.

Clay is looking off, hardly listening.

Clay's eyes are narrow, peering toward:

EXT. ROCKY HILLSIDE - DAY

LONG SHOT (Clay's ANGLE) of the shadowed slope. Something

moves, indistinct, and then the sun catches a gun barrel as

it disappears.

MED. CLOSE

Clay and Steve as Clay turns sharply.

Steve looks over toward the horses, stalling.

Turning, he crosses to where Steve's horse stands. CAMERA

ANGLE WIDENS. He loads the horse back, throws a blanket and

saddle on and cinches up the saddle. Steve watches, angry

and hurt. Clay steps back.

MED. CLOSE

the two brothers. They stare at each other. Steve is on the

verge of tears. Hurriedly, he swings into the saddle.

MED. SHOT

He glances down to Clay and digs his spurs in and gallops

after the stage. Clay's stern expression leaves his face. He

looks after the boy, smiles softly and then starts carrying

the pack-saddle into the shelter of the forest.

EXT. ROAD

MED. SHOT. Steve rides along the road. He pulls his horse

in, then glances back.

EXT. MEADOW

LONG SHOT - Steve's ANGLE. Clay is carrying the belongings

into the shelter of the forest. CAMERA PANS OVER and UP.

Momentarily a horseman is seen riding into an open space.

CLOSE SHOT

Steve as he stares. Then understanding his brother's actions,

he jerks the reins and swings the horse around and rides

back toward the meadow.

EXT. MEADOW

MED. SHOT - Steve gallops across the meadow to the corral,

swings off and starts unsaddling. Clay is inside the forest

lighting the fire.

MED. CLOSE

Clay. He looks over toward Steve, then rises and hurries

toward him.

MED. CLOSE

Clay and Steve. Steve takes down the bars and puts the horse

in the corral. Clay comes up to him as he's putting the bars

back up.

The two brothers stare at each other.

EXT. MEADOW

LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. Above the pines smoke rises. The

horses graze inside the corral. In the shadowy forest by the

creek, Clay's camp can be seen. A tarp has been stretched

over the camp. Lednov moves into the right hand side of the

frame and looks down.

REVERSE SHOT

Lednov stands on a rocky hill looking down in the meadow.

Behind him are McCall and Peters. They are screened from the

meadow by the rocks. Lednov turns and starts off through the

rocks to circle above the camp. The two men follow. All are

on foot.

EXT. ROCK

LONG SHOT SHOOTING PAST Clay and along his rifle. Clay, hidden

behind a wall of rock, is watching the trail where it comes

down into the meadow. Something moves on the rocky hill above

and to his left. He looks up, waiting. The movement stops.

Clay glances around.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Below Clay, Steve lies in a cut in the rocks, watching the

camp. Clay motions toward the hill. Steve nods.

EXT. ROCK

PAN SHOT - FROM Clay's ANGLE. CAMERA, SHOOTING THROUGH the

rifle sights, SEARCHES the forest and meadow. As a flight of

birds suddenly rises above a section of the forest, the CAMERA

HOLDS.

EXT. ROCKY HILLTOP

MED. SHOT. Lednov, McCall and Peters have stopped, halted by

the sudden flight of the birds.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Below is the camp. Lednov motions.

Lednov looks at McCall. From his pocket, McCall takes a coin.

McCall flips the coin, shows it to Peters. Peters shrugs and

starts moving cautiously down toward the camp.

MED. CLOSE

Lednov and McCall.

McCall moves off to circle around in back of where Clay and

Steve wait. Lednov watches him go then, moving to the shelter

of the rocks, waits.

ANOTHER ANGLE

His position commands the meadow, where the horses are

corralled, and the camp.

EXT. ROCK

LONG SHOT - Clay's ANGLE. The forest is silent. Then,

momentarily, Peters is in the open. Clay brings his rifle

up, trying to get him in the sights. Wheeler disappears.

EXT. PETERS' POSITION

MED. SHOT. Stealthily, Peters makes his way down toward the

camp.

LONG SHOT

ANGLED PAST Peters. Peters, sheltered by a tree trunk, raises

his rifle, then his eye catches a movement. He fires.

EXT. ROCK

LONG SHOT - PAST Clay. Clay has Peters in his sights. He

fires.

MED. CLOSE

Peters. Peters is stretched on the needle-covered earth,

dead.

EXT. ROCK

MED. CLOSE - Clay. Clay throws the empty cartridge out and

another in. O.s. there is a SHOT. A bullet hits near him.

Clay looks off in the direction where Lednov is waiting on

the hill west of the camp. Another SHOT is heard. A bullet

smacks into the rock close to Clay. It comes from McCall's

position southwest of the camp. Clay ducks.

EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION

LONG SHOT - Lednov's ANGLE. Lednov is trying to get Clay in

his sights. He fires as Clay is seen momentarily.

EXT. MCCALL'S POSITION

LONG SHOT - McCall's ANGLE. McCall fires at Clay.

EXT. ROCK

Clay and Steve crawl down and away from Lednov and McCall's

positions. Steve grins at Clay. He is enjoying this.

Moving cautiously he starts in McCall's direction.

EXT. MCCALL'S POSITION

MED. LONG SHOT. McCall, rifle ready looks down toward the

base of the log where Steve now waits. A twig snaps below.

He sights the rifle, waiting.

EXT. CLAY'S POSITION

MED. CLOSE. Clay stands still. The forest is silent again.

EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION

MED. LONG SHOT. Lednov, sheltered by a tree, has his rifle

trained on Clay's position.

EXT. CLAY'S POSITION

MOVING SHOT. Clay, walking cautiously, climbs toward McCall's

position. Ahead is an open area. Stooping, Clay picks up a

rock and draws back his arm to throw it.

EXT. MCCALL'S POSITION

MED. LONG SHOT - ANGLED TOWARD open area below. The stone

thrown by Clay, crashes in the brush across the open area.

McCall fires.

EXT. CLAY'S POSITION

UP ANGLE PAST Clay. The flash of sunlight on McCall's rifle

attracts Clay's attention. He fires. From behind him, Steve

fires. Clay runs across the open area. Steve fires again.

EXT. MCCALL'S POSITION

MED. SHOT. McCall tries to struggle to his feet. Failing, he

brings his rifle up. Clay in b.g. runs to the shelter of a

tree. McCall fires. Clay's rifle barrel emerges from behind

tree. McCall tries to drag himself to safety. Clay fires.

McCall goes down on his face. From Lednov's position comes

the SOUND of a shot.

LONG PAN SHOT

Clay's ANGLE. CAMERA SEARCHES Lednov's position for some

movement. There is none.

EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION

DOWN ANGLE PAST Lednov. Below in the corral the horses are

hunched together. Lednov looks down, then raising his rifle,

he brings one of the horses into the beads of the sights. It

is the bell mare.

His voice echoes again and again. Clay's answer is a shot.

It cuts the branches above Lednov's head.

CLOSE SHOT

Lednov. He ducks lower, steadies his rifle.

LONG SHOT

ANGLED THROUGH sights. The sights center on the bell mare.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Steve. He is standing recklessly trying to find Lednov in

the rocks above.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He stares down at the horses. A shot is heard.

EXT. CORRAL

MED. SHOT. The bell mare rears as the bullet strikes the

bell. The horses mill around the corral.

EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION

MED. CLOSE SHOT.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay. He starts forward, face set with rage.

Recklessly Clay raises his rifle and fires three shots at

Lednov's position.

EXT. ROCKS

MED. FULL SHOT as Clay fires, Steve starts running down. He

crosses the creek.

EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION

LONG SHOT - DOWN. Lednov sees Steve running. He swings his

rifle away from the horses and tries to get the boy in his

sights. Clay fires again. A bullet smacks into the tree.

Lednov flinches. Then again he tries to center on Steve.

EXT. MEADOW

MED. SHOT. Steve runs, bending low, toward the rail fence. A

bullet kicks up dirt near him.

EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION

LONG SHOT - DOWN. Steve has almost reached the fence. Lednov

fires. Steve stumbles and goes down.

MED. CLOSE

Steve. He lies still a moment, then painfully he crawls to

the rails and with a great effort tries to tear the rails

down. Lednov fires. The bullet whistles past. Steve pulls

the fence down, crawls away from the opening. The horses,

milling around the corral break through. Steve lies still,

face down.

FULL SHOT

The meadow, ANGLED PAST Clay. The horses scatter across the

meadow.

MED. SHOT

Clay, now the hunter, moves toward Lednov's position. Lednov

fires. Clay runs and jumps into the creek. Sheltered by the

bank he makes his way up the creek.

MED. CLOSE

Lednov. He waits, his rifle ready. O.s. a twig snaps.

Cautiously he looks ahead. There is silence.

MED. SHOT

his ANGLE. A light wind runs through the great trees. Shafts

of light filter through the trees, making patterns on the

forest floor. The light is dim, deceptive. Lednov, rifle

ready, searches for some sign of Clay. Then from another

direction comes the SOUND of movement. Lednov swings his

rifle in that direction, waits. The SOUND has stopped.

His voice echoes across the hills. Lednov sights along his

rifle at the direction from which the SOUND of Clay's voice

came. Momentarily Clay is seen as he runs from one tree to

another. Lednov fires.

MED. CLOSE

Clay. Clay cautiously edges around the base of a tree. He

picks up a stick, stops.

His voice can be heard echoing across the hills. He tosses

the stick. Lednov fires at the SOUND of the falling stick.

As his voice echoes across the hills Clay quickly moves into

the open and fires.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Lednov crumples forward as his echoing voice fades out. Clay

moves over to him to stand looking down.

EXT. MEADOW

MED. SHOT. Steve sits propped up against the fence rail. His

shirt is off and his shoulder is crudely bandaged. Clay, who

has been putting the bandage on, stands and takes a sack of

tobacco from his pocket.

Clay looks at him for a moment, not angry, but not admitting

he's wrong yet.

EXT. SONORA - NIGHT (STOCK)

EXT. SONORA STREET - NIGHT

FULL SHOT - featuring hotel and doctor's office. The sheriff's

posse, the bodies of Lednov, McCall and Wheeler slung across

the backs of horses, and Clay's remuda, trot down the street.

People come out of the hotel to watch the cavalcade pass.

Clay and Steve are not with the posse. Clay's horse is

tethered in front of the doctor's office which is next door

to the hotel.

EXT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE

MED. SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH window. Clay, back to camera, is

holding a kerosine lamp. The doctor, a lanky, middle-aged

man, is working over Steve, who is stretched out on a table.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE

MED. SHOT. Shelves filled with bottles line the room, for

the doctor is also the druggist. There is a glass cabinet in

which are the doctor's instruments. The room is cluttered.

The lamp, held by Clay, throws a circle of pale light down

on Steve. The doctor is working on Steve's shoulder and arm.

MED. CLOSE - UP ANGLE

featuring Clay. Clay suddenly averts his glance and winces

as the doctor probes the wound in Steve's arm. Steve groans.

The lamp wavers.

Footsteps are HEARD approaching. Clay tries to steady his

shaking hand. He is focusing his attention on a far wall. A

woman's hand comes in the scene and takes the lamp from him.

He reacts. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal Mary, who has moved

in beside him.

CLOSE SHOT

Steve. He smiles up at Mary.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

ANGLES PAST doctor.

He suddenly realizes that a strange woman is in the room and

reacts.

Mary lowers the lamp.

CLOSE SHOT

Clay and Mary. UP ANGLE PAST lamp.

He straightens into the shot. CAMERA PULLS BACK TO MED. SHOT.

Steve is now bandaged.

As Clay lifts Steve to the cot the doctor exits. Mary watches

Clay cover Steve. Then she goes to the door leading to the

street, stops with her hand on the knob.

Clay straightens and turns.

She opens the door and starts out.

EXT. PORCH - DOCTOR'S OFFICE

MED. SHOT. Mary starts to close the door behind her. Clay

forces it open. Clay comes out. Mary starts toward the steps.

Mary stops at the edge of the porch. Clay comes up beside

her.

CLOSE SHOT

Mary waits, looking up at him.

They look at each other.

For answer, Clay takes her in his arms.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE

ANGLED PAST Steve on cot. In the b.g. through the open

doorway, Clay and Mary kiss. Steve watches a moment, then

turns his head toward camera. He smiles and closes his eyes.

EXT. PORCH

TWO SHOT - Mary and Clay. They break from the kiss. Clay

looks down at Mary.

