EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - DAY

FADE IN

The sky is pure blue, exquisitely blemished by huge cumulus

clouds, floating lazily. A single bird sails past. From the

sky the CAMERA MOVES TO earth. Here, too, all is tranquil.

The trees, bright green in the sunlight, move only to the

slight but constant breeze. Now the CAMERA MOVES DOWN,

revealing a wagon to which is hitched a team of horses beside

the road. The wagon is at an awkward angle, but upright. It

is wedged between two rocks where the horses have pulled it

as they tried to reach some forage. Its seat is empty. In

the bed of the wagon several sacks lie, bearing the legend:

The sacks are empty and slashed as by a knife. The ropes

that bound them are cleanly severed. The disorder in the

wagon indicates haste. Two horses are hitched to it, munching

grass or the high leaves of a tree overhead. All that is odd

or unnatural is that the reins have fallen askew and trail

the ground.

Now the CAMERA MOVES AWAY and ALONG tracks made by the wagon

when it left the road. ON THE ROAD two horses stand. These

are saddled, but riderless. The rifle holsters are empty.

CAMERA MOVES TO the ground. There on the road lies the rifle.

The dust is slightly blowing across it, moved by the

persistent summery little breeze. From the rifle, the CAMERA

MOVES ON A LITTLE and STOPS ABRUPTLY ON the sprawled dead

figure of a soldier, then another, face down in the road.

CLOSE SHOT of the dead soldiers, as the CAMERA HOLDS ON them.

Near the hand of one a revolver lies, the fine dust coating

it. Dust blowing over the uniforms, as though seeking to

hide the shame of a murder. As it blows over their still

figures, the SOUND of BIRDS coming over:

FADE IN

ROCK PASS - NIGHT

This is a western mining town of the Eighties that has

mushroomed up around a gold strike. On the streets prospectors

and miners mingle with merchants. As the CAMERA PICKS UP the

scene, a lumber wagon passes, bearing logs, a ten team wagon,

its trailer filled with ore from the stamp mills and bearing

the legend: ARGUS MINE. A stage coach comes in as we:

INT. HOTEL - NIGHT

On the hotel clerk, as he sits behind the desk, playing a

guitar and singing pensively the ballad of the story. As he

sings, JOHN HAVEN, newly arrived on the stagecoach, walks

in, gazes at the clerk with a slight smile, finding the clerk

completely indifferent to the arrival of anybody, at last

leaves the bag and saunters out.

EXT. SALOON - NIGHT

As Haven leaves the hotel and has reached the saloon, a well-

lighted, plush-looking spot, illumined by kerosene flares.

Sticking a pipe in his mouth, Haven saunters in.

INT. CHARLIE'S SALOON - EVENING

It is a huge elaborate room, lit by overhead chandeliers. A

long mahogany bar runs the length of it. To one side there

is a big stove and the gambling tables. Beyond can be seen

pool tables in an alcove. To another side, a man grinds away

at a piano. A stairway near the end of the bar leads to an

upper floor. The place is crowded and noisy with people.

Haven saunters towards the dice table, pauses, watches; he

is looking the crowd over carefully -- missing no detail of

the place or the people in it. When his turn comes, he picks

up the dice, bets all over the place -- on the line, on the

odds, on the seven, then on the come, the hard way, etc. His

point is eight.

Haven bets again, doubling all over the table.

Players glance at the newcomer. Prince appears from nowhere,

standing behind the stickman, watching. Prince is slender,

black-haired, handsome and impassive. Haven throws again.

Stellman, an Army officer, watches curiously. There is a

little rising murmur as Haven tosses another natural. He

does it without enthusiasm or any lost movement. The bettors

get down on him. Prince touches the stickman's arm; the man

stands aside and Prince takes his place with the stick. Prince

tosses the dice back to Haven. Haven's eyes are fixed on

him. With a little smile, Haven throws the dice to the next

man, picks up his winnings.

His eyes meet Prince's again and then he turns away, Prince's

gaze following him curiously, Stellman looks at Prince.

CAMERA FOLLOWS Haven, as still smiling slightly, he heads

towards the bar, searching the faces of the crowd as he goes.

Two miners are squared off for a fight and Haven, going his

way, walks between them, very indifferent, not even glancing

back at the SOUND of scuffle behind him.

AT THE BAR - Haven alone is not watching the fight. All the

others have turned to see it; even the barman is busy

watching. But Haven's eyes are resting on the figure of a

woman now at the piano, singing. Softly, as if to herself

and for her own enjoyment. He is near the end of the bar and

near the piano, and since no one else listens to her at this

moment, she sings, half smiling, directly for him, and then,

self-consciously, she stops and turns to sit at a table, as

Haven watches her. Behind them the fight is being stopped

and Charlie's eyes follow the huge bouncer, Mick Marion, as

he drags the offenders out to the door and the street. All

is as usual. The bartender is back at work. As Haven turns,

he finds that the place beside him is now occupied by the

young Lieutenant (Phil Stellman). Haven glances at the

uniform, then at the pleasant face of the officer, as the

barman comes up.

A girl sidles up to him, blonde, brash and pretty.

He turns his back to her; she gives him a look and saunters

off. The barman produces the drinks -- a beer for Stellman,

the young officer. The barman folds his arms. Stellman looks

at Haven.

Haven smiles at him.

The barman turns to get it. Stellman is still looking at

Haven.

The barman gives Haven another Rye.

The barman, listening, senses trouble and signals with his

eyes to a big bouncer down the bar. The bouncer moves up

quietly.

They stare at each other for a long second, then Stellman

speaks icily:

Stellman's jaw tightens; then he turns and exits abruptly.

The barman sighs with relief; the bouncer turns away.

He turns away from the bar, after flipping a coin on to it,

while the barman stands there not knowing whether to be angry

or philosophical.

CAMERA FOLLOWS Haven, as he threads his way through the tables

towards the door. His eyes catch sight of the girl who sang

at the piano, Charlie. She is sitting at a table with Prince.

Prince murmurs to her and she glances at Haven, then looks

away again. Haven notes it. As he comes near the table, the

blonde who spoke to him at the bar, accosts him again.

Haven is looking at Charlie. She is checking a stack of coins

the blonde has turned in to her. She glances up with a

fleeting smile at Haven.

Their gazes meet and Prince notes it with narrowing eyes.

The gaze holds like a spell, and then Charlie's smile comes

back, from nowhere.

Haven looks at her, fascinated. She can feel a fascination

herself. Now Haven smiles a little.

She looks at him in a second's silence. Haven turns and

leaves. She watches him go. Prince studies her face, his own

grim. A croupier comes up and places a paper before her. She

hardly notices it.

Charlie snaps out of it long enough to initial the paper.

He turns away. Prince sits still, his eyes on Charlie, his

slim fingers at an habitual trick, that of idly stacking

dice in a little pillar and then picking the pillar aloft by

holding the lowest dice pinched between the thumb and

forefinger, NOT by the edges, but by the sides. Now he does

it as he watches Charlie's face. Her eyes glance again at

the disappearing back of Haven. The sense of fascination

seems to have gotten her, too. Then she realizes the presence

of Prince and his shrewd gaze. She looks at him coolly.

Prince flips the dice into his palm and rises...

EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN - NIGHT

The board sidewalk has given way to a rutty dirt road. Now

the racket of the saloon street is just a ghost of noise,

the road dark and silent. Haven has emerged from the saloon.

He glances up the street. Fifty yards ahead, Stellman is

walking slowly. Stellman pauses, shoots a quick glance

backwards, then goes on. Haven follows, going leisurely up

the street after Stellman.

ANGLE on a corner as Stellman turns it, pauses and waits.

When Haven reaches it, Stellman goes on in silence.

EXT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE-CABIN - NIGHT

As Stellman reaches it, pauses and glances behind him. Then

he rings a bell. Haven comes up and waits in silence, glancing

at the dark interior. A woman's face now peers through the

door window and then the door opens. Stellman enters quickly

and Haven follows.

INT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE-CABIN - NIGHT

As Stellman and Haven follow Mrs. Caslon to a rear door.

Looking around, Haven notes in the shadows a desk and in a

corner the big safe. (This room is described in a subsequent

scene.) So as to emit the least light, Mrs. Caslon lets

Stellman and Haven go through, then quickly follows them and

quickly shuts the door.

INT. MRS. CASLON'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

It is remarkably neat and elegant inside. As Haven, glancing

around, pauses inside, he finds himself facing a burly

uniformed cavalry officer, captain's bars gleaming on the

side of his collar. The captain is big and broad and scowling.

He is standing by the fireplace and his eyes are boring into

Haven's with curiosity and perhaps, suspicion. Stellman steps

forward as Haven and the captain are measuring each other.

Haven gives a casual nod.

Iles looks him up and down. Haven hands him an envelope which

he slips into his tunic without removing his gaze from Haven.

They eye each other, Iles scowling, Haven thinly smiling.

The sense of conflict is already between them.

She nods and smiles warmly.

Haven nods.

He sits down. Iles is still studying Haven.

Haven nods agreeably.

Iles pulls out a cigar, lights it, sizing Haven up.

There is a tight little silence, while Iles formulates his

dislike for this newcomer.

Haven takes out his pipe and fills it.

For the first time Iles looks amicably at him, as though

realizing that after all the man isn't there to criticize

him.

He smiles slightly at Iles, who gives him a slight smile in

return, somehow intrigued by this nonchalance. Haven rises

from the chair, lighting the dead pipe in vain.

Haven glances at Mrs. Caslon, smiles back at Iles.

Iles marches out abruptly, followed by Stellman. The door

shuts. Haven smiles after him, then at Mrs. Caslon.

The door opens again, smartly, Iles marches back in, kisses

Mrs. Caslon on the cheek.

Then he marches out again, shutting the door after him.

She goes over to a sideboard and pours a little from a

decanter into two wine glasses. Haven watches her. For the

first time he realizes she is a very attractive woman. She

smiles as she brings him the wine.

Haven nods and they sip.

He starts for the door and she follows him. At the open door

he pauses.

Haven walks out and she closes the door thoughtfully and

turns away. In a moment the door opens and Haven reenters

and crosses to her much in the manner that we have seen

Captain Iles do so. Haven stops.

He turns and goes out the door. Mrs. Caslon stands smiling

after him. The smile fades for a moment -- then she dismisses

it with a shrug.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

As Haven saunters along. He pauses, glances up at a sign

that reads: HOTEL. Then he enters the dingy building.

INT. HOTEL - NIGHT

As Haven enters the small dismal lobby, and goes over to the

desk, where a little man, Orville Weekly sits, singing to

himself softly and strumming an accompaniment on a battered

guitar. As Haven stands there the clerk finishes the verse

about the stranger. Haven nods approval. The clerk looks at

him shrewdly.

Haven puts down the money; the clerk spins the registry to

him, watches as Haven signs it. And he can read that way.

The clerk spits, hands him a key.

Haven crosses to exit into the street.

INT. CHARLIE'S SALOON - NIGHT

As Haven enters. It is crowded. Haven pauses by a table. He

sees Charlie at the piano singing. He sees Mick cross to

Prince and say something, then Prince gazes in his direction.

Haven's eyes meet those of Prince suddenly turned to him,

cold as glass. Charlie, seeing that Haven is watching and

listening to her impromptu singing, stops and makes her way

through the crowd towards a booth off the dance floor. Haven's

eyes follow her.

MED. SHOT - of booth as Charlie sits down. A sandwich is

waiting for her. She takes a bite of it, then glances up to

see Haven standing beside the table.

Charlie glances at him, then at the crowd where Mick Marion

stands beside Prince. Both are looking coldly towards the

booth. Haven's gaze follows hers towards Mick, as Prince

leaves the big man.

She smiles slightly back at him, glances away towards Mick.

Haven looks too, curiously. Mick is still watching, coldly.

Others glance too, as though this were an unexpected thing.

Mick takes a drink from a passing waiter; kills it in one

gulp. Haven looks back at Charlie's face and smiles.

The waiter nods and leaves. Charlie is still gazing at Haven

with that slight provocative smile.

The waiter leaves, as Charlie still regards Haven with a

curious interest. Haven is glancing again toward Mick, just

as that animal barrels down another whiskey.

At this moment Prince comes into scene and sits at the table.

Haven looks at him but Charlie offers no introduction.

He glances up and a slow smile comes over his face as Mick

Marion is seen approaching deliberately and with cold menace.

Her eyes follow his, then back to his face.

Blank-faced and big, Mick arrives at the booth. He stares

from Charlie to Haven. Haven looks at him then at Charlie.

Charlie watches Haven's face, but the smile remains. It seems

to sway her, this little test of expression.

Mick is not quite sure.

Haven senses now it is a little game they're playing together

on him. His smile remains. He reaches for the bottle, his

hand grasping the base of it, just as Mick reaches for it

too, clenching the top. Mick lifts at it; Haven's hand holds.

They look at each other as this little game of strength goes

on.

That does it. Mick wrenches at the bottle, and as he does

so, Haven releases his grip. The bottle shoots up. The wine

spills over Mick's face and clothes. Infuriated, Mick flings

the bottle at Haven, but Haven ducks as he comes out of the

chair. The bottle crashes against the wall, and Haven's fist

crashes against Mick. The big man grunts and staggers back,

but he doesn't drop. As Haven sets himself, he is suddenly

pinned from behind by two bouncers. Mick stands still, staring

at him, his cut lip bleeding.

There is a dead silence. At the crap table the dice read

seven but no one looks at them, all turning toward the scene.

A minor rises and the girl on his lap hits the floor. A drunk

steals a drink and no one sees him. (Business with glass)

Prince looks on coldly. Mark Bristow, moving up from the

dice table, pauses and stares.

The two bouncers start with Haven toward the door, Mick

following. A rear rises and men begin following in their

silent wake. Only the guy at the piano keeps on playing: he

never stops.

ANGLE on Charlie as she rises. Bristow and Prince have

sauntered over to her as the place empties, leaving only the

piano player.

Prince lets go with one of his rare smiles as he looks

admiringly at Charlie. They reach the door. The crowd opens

for them a little.

EXT. SALOON - NIGHT

As Mick and Haven come out; the crowd makes a noisy clearing.

There are bets going down. As soon as the crowd has formed

an open space, Haven wheels and smacks Mick across the face

hitting with the heel of the hand, so that Mick rocks back

almost going down. There is dead silence. Mick sets himself

for the Kill, as he peels his coat.

Bristow is shaking with excitement.

As they stare at the fight --

FULL SHOT - fight scene. As Mick is slowly advancing toward

Haven. He suddenly swings a haymaker which Haven easily ducks,

another and another that Haven evades.

Mick misses again, fiercely and Haven cracks him one in the

midriff. Then steps out fast and waits.

Mick charges and Haven catches him full in the mouth. It

stops Mick, and then Haven socks him again, this time with

the butt of his hand -- open palm -- on the nose. Mick is

surprised, tasting the blood on his hurt lips.

ANGLE on Charlie, Mark and Prince, as they watch. Charlie's

eyes are fixed with a kind of admiration on Haven. Prince

watches without interest. Mark is tense and excited.

But you feel she wishes it might...

ANGLE on the fight.

As Mick closes again, Haven stops quickly to one side,

clipping him behind the ear as he goes by. But this time

Mick keeps after Haven and finally connects. It is more of a

push than a clean hit, but even so the force of it drives

Haven off balance and he sprawls on his back. As Mick, sensing

victory, charges, Haven knows he can't get to his feet in

time, so he turns his body and springs at Mick's knees

shoulder first. The impact spills Mick on his face; before

he can recover, Haven dives on him, hands flat on his own

chest and palms turned out. His body crashes heavily, angling

across Mick's head, and Haven's savagely pushing hands mash

the other man's face into the hard ground. Then he rolls

clear and comes to his feet, breathing easily, waiting. Mick

gets up, shaking his head to clear it, mad and hurt. As he

closes ponderously in on Haven, his booted foot suddenly

shoots out. Haven twists his knee cap away but takes the

blow on the inside of his thigh, numbing the leg so that he

almost goes down. And now Mick gets to him. His great arms

close around Haven's waist, his hands locked in the small of

Haven's back. Haven braces himself against the crushing

squeeze, tensing his back muscles and stiffening his spine,

but there is nothing he can do against the implacable brute

power of the other man.

The sweat stands out on Haven's face as Mick's great strength

bends him over farther and farther. He must do something,

and soon, or his back will be cracked like a barrel stave.

Suddenly he bends his knees and lifts his feet up from off

the ground. Mick, suddenly finding Haven's full weight pulling

him forward, crashes down on top of him. With all the strength

left in him, Haven brings his knee to the pit of Mick's

stomach; as Mick's hold breaks, Haven rolls clear.

Now they are both hurt. Haven's ribs and chest are so bruised

that it is agony to take a breath. He knows it has to end

quickly or he is done for, and he goes all out. As Mick tries

to close with him again, he stands his ground and throws

pile-driver punches to Mick's midsection; as Mick finally

lowers his arms to cover his body, Haven shifts his attack

to the face. This is not Mick's style of fighting, but as he

lashes back clumsily and angrily, each time he touches Haven

it is with punishing power. Toe to toe, they slug it out,

the belt now unwound and dangling from Mick's fist, both men

groggy but both refusing to go down. Finally Mick is helpless

to protect himself, but Haven hasn't got power left to knock

him off those sturdy legs. Gathering himself, Haven hurls

his body shoulder first at Mick's chest but he miscalculates,

glances off and falls flat on his face. As he rolls over,

dogged and slow with exhaustion, he sees that his weight has

staggered Mick; the big man has taken a step back, and now

he starts to walk forward. Dazed and blind with pain, he

passes Haven, staggers forward until the tie-rail stops him.

There he stands, his hands on the rail, moving his head from

side to side like a wounded animal.

The crowd is silent now, waiting. Haven gets to his feet,

drunk with weariness. He puts a hand on Mick's shoulder, but

hasn't the strength to whirl him around. He braces himself

with one hand against the tie-rail, and almost in slow motion

pulls Mick around and clips him one last time with his

remaining strength. Mick goes down.

Before he is up he goes down again, unable to make it.

The crowd is transfixed. They can't even cheer. The two

bouncers lean over the fallen Mick.

They pick up Mick as Haven stupidly watches. Then as Haven

turns and goes away, swaying and weak, the roar rises. He

pushes aside people who try to assist him. They move aside

and watch him leave. The crowd goes back in the saloon behind

the vanquished Mick...

ANGLE on Charlie, Bristow and Prince. Prince watches the

beaten Mick go by with a smile of contempt. Charlie's eyes

are fixed on the vanishing lonely figure of Haven. Mark's

eyes are dancing.

Bristow follows Prince, wiping his forehead. Charlie remains,

looking down the now empty street where Haven vanished, a

strange soft look in her eyes, a slow smile mounting her

lips.

INT. HOTEL - NIGHT

Orville behind his desk is strumming softly on the guitar,

his eyes following Haven as the latter slowly and somewhat

painfully walks in and across the lobby. All the way to the

desk the clerk watches Haven, strumming softly. Haven pauses

and smiles very faintly at him. The clerk puts the guitar

aside. There is a coffee pot and cup on the desk.

Orville pours it quickly.

Orville pours the "cream" from a whiskey bottle. Haven sips

gingerly.

He finishes the coffee, turns and starts for his room. Orville

tosses two towels on Haven's shoulder as the latter goes.

Strumming the guitar again softly, he watches with admiration

the retreating form of Haven.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Haven stands in the darkness only lighted by lights of the

saloon next door. He stands there looking vaguely out the

window, sucking his knuckles absently as he listens to the

piano playing. Then he goes wearily to the bed and falls on

it gratefully, shutting his eyes, the towels still across

his shoulder. There is a moment of silence and then a soft

KNOCK at the door. Another KNOCK, and painfully Haven lifts

himself on one elbow and drags out his gun. The door opens

and Charlie enters. She shuts it behind her and stands looking

at him. He lets the gun fall and turns over on his back.

Charlie walks across to the bed and stands looking down at

him.

She puts it on the table beside the bed. Haven's eyes follow

her. She sees the towels, takes them to the washstand, soaks

them and brings them back and compresses them gently on

Haven's bruised face. When she takes the towel away, he pulls

himself up a little, propped against the pillow, looking at

her curiously. She sits down on the edge of the bed.

He watches her as she wets the towels again, returns and

wraps his hands in them, sitting again on the edge of the

bed.

He is almost asleep. She takes the now unused towel and puts

it back in the basin, soaks it, returns with it and tucks it

against the side of his face.

He is sound asleep the next second. She stares at him; rises,

puts the blanket over him and goes quietly out.

FADE IN

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Haven comes to the desk from his room. Orville is singing

another verse of the ballad. The clerk favors Haven with an

admiring smile. The coffee pot is there.

Orville strums the strings as Haven drinks, having a little

trouble with his sore hands.

He walks off. Orville ponders this, scowling into space.

INT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE-CABIN

Iles is pacing the floor. Mrs. Caslon is occupied with some

minor domestic chore. Stellman is standing by the door. Iles

is a ball of fire.

Stellman shrugs.

There is a knock at the door. Iles gives her a look; then

glares at Stellman.

Stellman opens the door and Haven walks in. He pauses, glances

around and smiles. Mrs. Caslon smiles at him.

She smiles and nods. Irons. Haven can feel the surcharged

air. Deliberately he assumes that casual manner that so burns

the Captain.

Iles glances sharply at Mrs. Caslon, and then to Haven.

Haven sits, wincing a little. But he beams at Iles, who now

picks a book off the table.

Haven inspects his knuckles.

He tosses the book on the table, glaring at Haven.

Iles scowls to him.

Haven goes to the door, gently touching his sore jaw. At the

door he turns.

He smiles and leaves, closing the door as he goes. Iles stands

there frozen with rage a moment. Then his face relaxes in a

grim smile. He glances at Stellman as he takes a cigar out

and bites it off.

INT. SALOON - DAY

Business is slack. Girls drink coffee and knit at a table.

Ernie polishes glasses at the bar. A colored man cleans a

crap table. All look up with curiosity and esteem as Haven

enters; all but Sam, the piano player, who goes on playing.

Haven goes to the bar. Ernie nods at him.

Haven goes to the stairs. The eyes of the girls follow him.

Top of the stairs -- as Haven reaches the door, wincing at

the climb. He KNOCKS with the heel of his hand, hurts it,

then uses his boot toe.

Haven opens the door.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAY

This is a big corner room, the windows of which look out

over the main street. The chairs are big and there is a roll-

top desk in the corner, a big leather sofa, and on the walls

some framed pictures. At a table Prince sits. He has six

dice stacked on top of each other and he is lifting the

column. Charlie is seated behind the desk smiling. Haven

looks from one to the other.

She seems to enjoy Haven's momentary confusion. Prince is

indifferent.

Prince gives him a thin smile and rises.

Prince saunters out.

Haven sits in a big chair, very gingerly; takes out his pipe

and tobacco.

She comes over with one and lights his pipe.

She takes his hand and looks at the cut knuckle.

She walks out of the room and he watches her; then around

the room. In a moment she returns, pulls up a chair in the

front of him and sits down. She has bandages and a little

jar of ointment.

She takes one of his bruised hands, and as she bandages his

hands slowly, carefully and rather expertly, they talk.

She smiles at him and then goes on.

He watches her face.

She stands up. Haven looks at her and ignores his bandaged

hands.

Haven gets the meaning and shakes his head.

As she writes out the authorization, Haven saunters to the

window, then over to the desk. Charlie finishes and hands

him the paper. Haven scans it, pockets it.

Haven is moving to the door and she beside him. They pause.

He looks at her face, neck and hair. She looks pretty good.

Haven looks squarely at her a moment, then smiles. He reaches

out one bandaged hand and pats her shoulder.

He walks out, and Charlie remains standing there, staring

after him, just a little hazily.

EXT. STAGE LINE DEPOT - DAY

As Haven walks through the wide gate into a compound. There

are several unhitched stages and freight wagons, one or two

in partial disassembly and being serviced. A colored boy is

readying a horse and buggy and beside him, overlooking the

yard activities, is a bespectacled man with rubber sleeve

garters. He is the manager. He has eyes like Armadillo and

claw-like hands; otherwise, he could be your loan agency

man. Seeing Haven he crosses to him.

The manager glances at the note, after moving his spectacles

out of the way. He gives it back without a word, and turns

toward the rear office door. Haven halts him.

Jim Goddard and Jerry enter from the rear office door. Jerry

is the younger. Goddard walks a little stiffly with the aid

of a cane.

They halt and look at Haven. The Manager jerks a thumb at

Haven.

Haven nods, after a glance at the manager.

He walks out, looking back with an awesome smile. Haven looks

curiously at Goddard, who has been standing in silence, a

thin smile on his lips.

He obeys. Haven watches and then turns to the manager.

The manager, gives them to him. Then looks at him.

He turns, takes a few steps -- and turns back to Haven.

The manager turns to go, shaking his head.

EXT. OFFICER COMPOUND

Haven, whistling softly, crosses to the colored boy who is

polishing the last specks of dust off the buggy. It is a

beautiful buggy attached to a beautiful horse. Haven pauses

and gazes at it.

The colored boy steps back and admires his work.

Haven climbs in the buggy, and the Colored Boy watches him

go.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAY

Charlie is dressed to go somewhere. She looks much nicer in

these clothes than in her show garments of the night. She is

listening to Prince who sits in a chair, the inevitable dice

in his fingers, two this time. There is a silence except the

rattle of the cubes. Then Prince speaks coldly.

She gets up, goes to the window testily. Prince looks at her

coldly as she gazes at the street.

He looks straight at her and she stares back, staring him

down at last. As his eyes lower, she turns again to the

window.

She is silent and Prince gets up and walks out. She does not

turn. Down in the street she can see Haven riding up in the

buggy, and the hard look on her face softens to a smile as

Haven climbs out of the buggy. Some people passing stare at

him, and whisper together. His fame has spread. He walks

inside, smiling a little.

INT. SALOON - DAY

As Haven enters. There is no play at the tables. Some at the

bar. The deaf pianist is pounding the keys softly. Prince

has just descended the stairs and gone to the dice table,

where he leans, his cold eyes fixed on Haven as the latter

goes to the foot of the stairs. At this moment Charlie appears

and descends the stairs, adjusting her hat. Haven stares at

her with admiration, as she descends, smiling at him.

MED. SHOT - Haven and Charlie, as she reaches the last step.

She looks at him.

She takes his arm instead and they walk towards the door.

MOVING SHOT - Charlie and Haven, as they go.

MED. SHOT of Prince, as he stands at the table, watching

them go.

EXT. CHARLIE'S BUGGY - DAY

As Haven helps Charlie into the carriage.

He glances at her.

As Haven shrugs and turns the carriage to front of Bristow's

office.

EXT. BRISTOW'S OFFICE - DAY

The letters on the window read:

As Haven pulls up in front of it with the carriage. He goes

around and helps Charlie alight, making it a little slow for

the sake of added intimacy and causing her to smile as though

she didn't resent it.

As Charlie starts in, Mrs. Caslon comes out and they pass.

Mrs. Caslon pauses to smile and Haven tips his hat. Charlie,

flashing a backward look, sees this.

EXT. BRISTOW'S OFFICE - DAY

MED. SHOT of Haven and Mrs. Caslon. Haven is talking to her

with apparent casualness because he realizes that Charlie

can see him.

He watches her face as she thinks it over.

She smiles and Haven pats her shoulder.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

As Bristow is talking. Charlie, looking through the window,

sees Haven and Mrs. Caslon part, Haven patting her shoulder

with that familiar gesture of his, then coming into the office

door.

Haven has entered in silence, seated himself in a chair.

Charlie does not look at him; her face, hard now, looks

straight at Bristow. He pauses as he glances at Haven with a

little nod Haven doesn't return.

He is sweating a little.

She whirls and walks out the door. Haven, fumbling for his

pipe and putting it in his teeth, follows her with a parting

glance at Bristow. For a long minute Bristow sits there alone,

his eyes staring at nothing; then as he mops the mildew of

sweat from his forehead:

INT. CHARLIE'S CARRIAGE - DAY

As Charlie and Haven drive in the country. The road winds

between hills now and a stream tumbles along beside the

winding road. The horse is moving at a snail's pace and

Charlie is gazing around at the scenery, relaxed and

thoughtful.

She laughs. They stop and get out.

STREAM BANK - DAY

FULL SHOT as Haven helps her down the bank to the edge of

the water. She sits on the edge of a huge flat boulder and

Haven stretches out beside her.

MED. SHOT of Haven and Charlie. As she looks at the stream

and then at him.

Haven has been idly flipping pebbles into the stream. He

sees a leaf float by.

He holds out his hand and takes hers. Abruptly she starts to

rise, very piqued and unable to disguise it. Haven rises

too. Takes her hand to help her from the boulder. Then stops

and gazes at her, smiling.

She starts down; Haven moves too, but it is he who slips and

she who has to catch him. Her arms go automatically around

him. His around her. Before he can act himself, she holds

him tight and kisses him. It is a long kiss and on it we:

FADE IN

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - EVENING

Orville is strumming the guitar as Haven enters. He pauses

as Haven comes near on the way to his room.

Haven halts, walks over.

He strums the strings.

He starts to his room.

INT. HAVEN'S ROOM

Haven enters, glances around, sees the bag is missing. He

goes to the window, sees Charlie at saloon window across the

areaway. He leans out.

Charlie moves the window, smiling.

She stares at him, the smile fading on her face.

A slight pause.

She turns abruptly from the window. Haven smiles and turns

away.

EXT. STAGE LINE COMPOUND - NIGHT

Haven is finishing preparations for the ride. ANGLE ON Goddard

as he stands in shadow, watching. He carries a shotgun. As

Goddard moves from the shadow, Haven whirls, going for his

gun -- then relaxing as he recognizes the other man.

MED. SHOT of Haven and Goddard.

Haven stares at him a long moment; Goddard returns the stare

steadily.

The coach is ready. Goddard doesn't move.

Haven slowly grins at him; Goddard smiles back.

Goddard climbs up with his shotgun as Haven clambers up into

the driver's seat. As the coach turns and heads for the back

of the corral.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - NIGHT

FULL SHOT - the stagecoach, travelling across open flat

country, heading toward the distant hills.

CLOSE SHOT - Haven and Goddard in the driver's box, keeping

an eye about him as the teams gallop along in the moonlight.

FULL SHOT as the stage rockets off into the darkness.

EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - NIGHT

The stage is now heading uphill, the gentle slope at the

beginning of the foothills.

EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - NIGHT

The road is steeper now, and winding.

ANOTHER ANGLE. The road is cut out of the side of the

mountain, leaving a sheer slope on one side, and high, thick

trees and brush on the other. As the stage follows a bend in

the road, a rider leaps out and grabs the lead horse. The

stage lurches crazily and almost overturns as it slows to a

stop. Before Haven can free his hands from the reins to go

for his gun, two shadowy figures, handkerchiefs helping the

darkness mask their faces, have jumped out onto the road

ahead and have him covered.

Haven and Goddard raise their arms. Another bandit, from the

hillside, calls out:

Two shotgun barrels cover the side of the stags. Goddard

gets off, hands in air.

Haven obeys, to join Goddard in the road, as the bandits

converge on the stage. There are five or six of them. Two

come up behind Haven and Goddard.

The sacks are being loaded on a pack horse. Haven turns

around.

He gives Goddard a none too gentle shove. Goddard moves on

up the road in the darkness.

A FEW YARDS UP THE ROAD. Mick is waiting by his horse, his

gun drawn. We hear the steps of Goddard and the bandit.

The footsteps halt. Mick aims and fires.

BY WAGON. There is a half grunt, half groan from Goddard.

Haven turns as if to protest and then crumples as a gun fells

him.

CLOSE SHOT - Haven, lying face down on the ground,

unconscious.

FADE IN

EXT. SKY

As day breaks.

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAWN

CLOSE SHOT - Haven. Haven comes to, gradually clearing the

cobwebs. Then suddenly he remembers Goddard and the shot. He

makes his way to where Goddard's body lies a few feet up the

road. Goddard's right hand is half in his hip pocket, as if

in his last dying moment he was reaching for something. As

Haven pulls the hand out, he sees that Goddard's fingers

have closed around his wallet. Puzzled, Haven opens the

wallet. There is a stiff-backed daguerreotype of his wife,

an expired Union Pacific Railroad pass, an express receipt,

a souvenir bank-note of the Confederacy, and a small, closely-

folded piece of paper. Unfolding this, Haven sees the top

line:

"To Whom It May Concern"

HE READS FURTHER:

"This certifies that the bearer, James Goddard, is operating

as a legally deputized detective for Wells Fargo Stage and

Express Company."

Haven replaces the papers and lifts Goddard's body, carries

it to the stage and places it on the floor. He removes

Goddard's gun and shell belt and straps it on, closing the

stage door. Haven's face is grim as he studies the ground

nearby. The sticky mud shows clearly the new tracks of the

bandits' horses. As he starts unhitching one of his horses

from the wagon traces, we

EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - MORNING

A tiny clearing on a brush-filled knoll, where the remains

of a cooking fire are still visible, the ashes scattered

over the tamped-down ground. CAMERA PANS OVER TO Haven, on

horseback, as he studies the scene. This is where he evidently

made camp for the night. He dismounts, sifts the ashes through

his fingers to feel their warmth. He cannot be far behind.

Then he turns his attention to the trail loading away.

Inspection reveals that it divides, one group of fresh tracks

heading towards town, another smaller group further into the

mountains. He decides to follow the latter. As he mounts and

rides off:

EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - MORNING

A high spot from which Haven can get a good view. Off in the

distance he sees:

LONG SHOT - FROM his ANGLE. A lone rider, leading a pack

horse, barely visible through the timber. He is heading away

from him.

CLOSE SHOT - Haven. He spurs his horse forward.

FULL SHOT - Haven, in pursuit of the man ahead.

EXT. STREAM - MORNING

The bandit, unaware of his pursuer, puts his horse and the

gold-laden pack horse through the stream. He comes out into

a meadow on the other side.

PAN SHOT - WITH Haven, as he comes to the stream. Half way

across, his horse momentarily loses his footing on the

slippery rocks.

MED. SHOT - bandit. Hearing the noise of Haven's horse, he

turns and sees his pursuer, takes a quick shot back at him,

then heads for the other side of the meadow where there will

be shelter, firing back as he rides.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - Haven. He takes careful and deliberate aim

and fires.

FULL SHOT - FROM Haven's ANGLE. The bandit is almost at the

edge of the woods when Haven's shot gets him. He tumbles

from the saddle. Haven rides forward, gun ready in case it

is a trick.

EXT. MEADOW - MORNING

It is no trick. The bandit is down where he fell. When Haven

turns him over, the man's eyes are already glazed. Haven

puts his lips close to the dying man's ear.

The man only glares up at him. Haven tries again.

The man holds Haven's gaze defiantly and silently as the

life goes out of him. Haven lowers him back to the ground,

rifles his pocket. There are no papers on him, no

identification. He stands up. He has the gold back, but he

is no closer to rounding up the whole gang than he was before.

Unless -- he is looking at the horses, placidly grazing. He

goes up to them, ties up the loose lead reins, draws his

belt off, and gives them each a sharp crack on the rump with

the buckle. They take off across the meadow at a gallop.

Haven lets them get a good start before he mounts his own

horse, and follows after them.

EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - DAY

As Haven rides up to the edge of a downslope, gazes over a

broad valley, and sees:

LONG VIEW of a sawmill, nestled in the valley. It comprises

several sheds and buildings, with a long rank of stacked

logs beside the biggest shed, and all this is serviced by a

dirt road along which the two horses canter up to the camp.

Haven observes several men come out of the main office and

snag the two horses.

EXT. CAMP OFFICE - DAY

As two men who have snagged the horses now take off the gold

bags. In front of the office Pete, the camp boss, Ben and

Sam, two tough-looking accomplices, stand watching and

glancing up the road down which the horses came. There is a

frown on Pete's face.

Pete looks thoughtfully at Joe's horse, pats his neck, again

locks up the road.

Two men mount and start away.

CLOSE SHOT of Haven. As he moves back out of sight. Obviously

he can't move into the camp now. Glancing off down the valley

he sees in the distance a work wagon approaching. It is still

hidden from sight of the sawmill by high ground between. He

puts his horse down the slope towards the approaching wagon,

at a tangent to the camp.

EXT. SAWMILL ROAD - DAY

As the work wagon lumbers along. Its markings identify it as

belonging to the stageline Haven now manages. We recognize

Jerry the driver as Haven rides up. Jerry gives him a grin

and a salute.

He climbs down as Haven dismounts and turns the horse over

to Jerry.

Haven watches him ride away, then climbs aboard the wagon.

Picking up the reins, he notices the bandages on his hands

and, not wanting to be identified by them, rips them off.

Blowing on his still sore knuckles, he drives toward the

sawmill.

EXT. SAWMILL CAMP SITE - DAY

As Haven's wagon lumbers in. He looks curiously at the main

office. No one is in sight, but as he draws nearer, the

swarthy hard-faced man, Pete, comes out on to the porch.

Haven looks at him.

Haven flicks the reins, moves on. Pete watches suspiciously.

Haven moves on to the cook shack outside of which the cook

is busy dumping a pail of slop.

Haven pulls up by the warehouse next door and gets down.

There is nobody around, so he starts wrestling with the food

crates himself, taking the first one into the warehouse.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

It is big, barnlike, piled with provisions and equipment.

Haven stares around; carries the crate to where a similar

stack of crates are piled. Lowering the crate he notes a

shiny object, picks it up. It is a button from an army

uniform. He pockets it as his attention is distracted by two

horsemen passing outside. Haven goes out to continue

unloading.

EXT. MAIN OFFICE - DAY

As the two horsemen ride up to Pete and dismount. Ben and

Sam are standing there.

He glances toward the wagon where Haven is working.

The five men move down to Haven's wagon.

ANGLE ON wagon and Haven, as he sees them come. His lip

tightens; then he relaxes and goes on lifting a crate. He

pauses as they come up and stand around him, their eyes fixed

on:

Haven looks at him.

It is a risky little moment; Haven eases both bruised hands

into his coat pockets.

Pete's face relaxes; as do the grim faces of the others.

They start unloading and Haven goes to the cook house. Pete

watches him go. Ben notes it.

He lends a hand with Ben and Sam.

INT. COOKHOUSE - DAY

A big pot of stew is simmering on the fire. The cook is busy

slicing french fries. Haven enters.

Haven begins ladling out some stew into a bowl, tastes it.

Haven shrugs and takes more stew; the cook goes on cutting

the potatoes.

Haven takes another gulp in the silence that follows. Then

he says carelessly:

Ben's head appears in the doorway.

Haven takes a last mouthful, turns toward the door.

The cook isn't interested; he spits as he slices a potato.

EXT. SAWMILL OFFICE - DAY

Pete, Sam and Ben are waiting beside the gear box as we see

Haven bringing the wagon up.

They watch Haven as he pulls up the wagon. Pete looks hard

at his face. Haven has the pipe in his mouth again, looking

very blandly at them.

Haven climbs aboard. They look hard at him. He has stuck his

pipe in his mouth. He smiles at them and he picks up the

reins.

Haven pauses.

Haven flicks the reins, grins at them and drives off. Ben is

still worried and stares after the departing wagon.

EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY

This is deserted country on the way to town. When the land

slopes steeply from the road down into a kind of wash, Haven

halts the wagon. He glances around. No sign of life. He takes

a hammer and chisel out of the tool box beside the seat,

crawls to the crate and prys it open. His cargo is gold.

Satisfied, he replaces the pried board, then pushes the crate

over the side. It topples down the bank, vanishes in the

brush at the bottom of the wash. With one more glance around,

Haven resumes his seat in the wagon, puts a match to his

pipe, and sends the horses forward at a faster clip.

LONG SHOT OF POST - DAY

INT. CAPTAIN ILES' OFFICE - POST

Iles is pacing up and down as Stellman enters quietly. Iles

promptly faces him.

Stellman turns and leaves obediently.

EXT. MARK'S OFFICE - EVENING

SHOT FROM Haven's ANGLE to include street activity. As Mark

approaches, opens the door and enters.

INT. MARK'S OFFICE - EVENING

As Mark enters in the semi-darkness and pauses, stiff with

fright at the sight of Haven sitting in the chair, a gun in

his hand. Mark opens his mouth but can't speak.

Numbly, Mark obeys; then turns.

Mark lights the lamp. His voice is small and quavering.

Mark pours a drink shakily from a decanter by his law library.

Mark gulps his in an ominous silence.

Haven puts the gun away; rises, walks to the desk, pours a

drink for himself. Mark watches him shrewdly.

He saunters to the window -- glances through the crack of

the shades. When he turns, he notes that Mark has paper and

pencil ready.

He pauses, looks stonily at the face of Mark, who is staring

at him curiously and waiting.

Mark stares in amazement.

EXT. CHARLIE'S SALOON - EVENING

Mick is standing outside, holding the arm of Jerry as he

talks to the kid. Beside him stands Pete Yore's man, Ben.

INT. MARK'S OFFICE - EVENING

As Haven finishes his statement. He is again at the window,

glancing out. Perhaps he has seen the incident with Mick and

Jerry across the crowded street.

He turns back into the room. Mark is looking at him with

puzzled wonder, his face drawn and tense.

He smiles slightly. The wonder leaves Mark's face. Urbane

cunning replaces it.

Mark smiles thinly, licking his lips.

Haven lights the pipe.

He strolls back towards his room and CAMERA FOLLOWS him, the

strumming of the guitar again SOUNDING in the b.g.

INT. HAVEN'S ROOM - EVENING

Haven shuts the door, pulls off his boots and gun belt, lies

on the bed and stares at the ceiling. His face is sad and he

looks tired. The MUSIC from the saloon comes over, Charlie's

song... he closes his eyes and in a moment falls asleep...

EXT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE-CABIN - EVENING

As iles rides up. He is just about to enter, after

dismounting, when Mark Bristow comes out of the office. Mark

smiles and nods at the officer.

Mark mounts his horse, drives away.

INT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE CABIN - EVENING

As Iles opens the door and enters. Mrs. Caslon is her usual

cool self as she sits at her desk. Iles crosses to her and

gives her a peck on the cheek as she fondly pats his hand.

He sits in a comfortable chair, conscious of the fact that

she had ignored his reference to Bristow.

Iles gives her a surly look, takes a cheroot out of his tunic.

Iles is about to yell something at her, then holds himself

in check, while she wipes the spilled ashes from his uniform.

In this interlude he changes to an icy man.

He walks to the door. She stands there frigidly.

He turns and fumbles with the knob, but he can't do it. He

turns at last and walks meekly back to her.

She turns to the desk and hands him the long legal envelope.

Iles takes it and stares at it. He starts to open it.

He opens it, looks.

He hands it to her. She reads.

He takes back the paper from her, thrusts a blank sheet in

the envelope, tosses the envelope back on the desk.

Iron-faced, he starts out, remembers again, softens against

his will, comes back from the door and kisses her cheek and

then leaves. CAMERA stays on Mrs. Caslon as she watches him

go. She smiles slightly, puts the envelope in the safe, and

then from it takes a six-gun, looks at it and begins dusting

it with her handkerchief as we

Haven begins washing his face in the washbowl, and then

combing his hair and readjusting his somewhat rumpled shirt.

Mark watches him.

There is a little nervous sweat on Mark's hands; he wipes

them on his coat.

A little shaken and uncertain, Mark obeys.

EXT. HOTEL - EVENING

As Haven and Mark come out. They walk towards the saloon.

People look at them curiously. Suddenly, down the street,

the sheriff appears, approaching Haven slowly and ominously.

Sensing a gun fight, people vanish. Purely from instinct,

Mark deserts Haven's side in a hurried walk towards the

saloon, eyeing both. Haven comes on leisurely. The sheriff

has stopped in his tracks and has his gun out. A woman

clutches her child to her skirt. Men stand stockstill,

watching. A crowd forms at the entrance to Charlie's. Haven

walks slowly forward until he reaches the waiting sheriff.

He looks him over with a smile of contempt.

Haven hands him back the now loaded gun and walks away towards

the saloon, leaving the sheriff standing there, a completely

dumbfounded and bepuzzled man.

INT. CHARLIE'S SALOON - NIGHT

The place is roaring. Haven enters, followed by Mark. The

guy at the piano is playing as always. Haven and Mark go

slowly to the bar, eyes following them. The noise softens

almost to silence, except the piano, Cowering, Mark sticks

close to Haven.

At the dice table, Prince stares coldly, hands another man

the stick and walks away to the stairway, his eyes seeking

Mick Marion who is also staring at Haven. Prince nods to

Mick as he goes.

MED. SHOT at bar -- as Haven and Mark loan against it. Ernie

is looking at him curiously; then towards Mick. Haven doesn't

follow the glance, but Mark does.

Ernie gets them. Haven glances at the piano. Mick who had

stood there has now vanished. Haven smiles. The drinks arrive.

Mark finishes off his second. A stickman comes up. Nudges

Haven.

The stickman moves away. Mark looks at Haven.

Haven turns away towards the stairs. Mark hesitates, bites

his lip, swallows another drink and then grimly follows.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Charlie is behind her desk, as Haven walks in. Behind him,

sweating now, comes Mark. As the two are in the room the

door behind them slams shut. Mick is there with a gun. Prince

moves slightly out of a shadow. Mark backs against a wall.

Charlie looks up from her fingernails. Haven smiles and

glances around. His eyes fix on Mick and the gun.

Mick says nothing, his face a blank hatred. Haven sits down

in a big chair.

Another door opens and Pete, the sawmill foreman, enters,

stands silently. Haven glances at him, then at Charlie who

smiles thinly back.

Mark relapses into a perspiring silence.

Charlie stares at him a moment. Then she glances at Pete.

Pete walks out.

Mick burns in silence. Charlie smiles.

Haven nods.

Charlie is silent a moment. Haven lights his pipe. Charlie

looks at Mark, pale by the wall.

She looks coolly at Mick and Mark.

Mark glances at Haven who nods and Mark leaves in the wake

of the grimly departing Mick. Prince lingers.

Prince gets up grimly, his lips tight, the dice held hard in

his fingers. He stares at Haven.

He turns and walks out. Haven watches him go.

Charlie comes around and sits on the arm of his chair.

She brushes his cheek with her lips.

He rises and so does she. She picks up a scarf in silence

and anger, crosses and goes out the door, Haven following

her.

INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT

As Haven and Charlie descend. Her face is hard.

As they descend, Stellman can be seen in the bar crowd,

watching them.

MED. SHOT of Charlie and Haven at foot of stairs. Haven is

smiling at her, but her face is serious and her eyes hard.

Haven smiles. He can see Stellman approaching.

He starts away, but Stellman halts him.

Haven looks at him. Charlie watches.

Haven stares at him, then looks at Charlie. A slow smile

dawns on her face.

He pats Charlie's shoulder and then walks out with Stellman.

Charlie watches them go. Prince appears beside her.

She walks away towards the piano. Prince stands there,

watching Haven go.

Note: Pick up two night exteriors of the post.

INT. ILES' OFFICE - NIGHT

There is a sergeant inside facing Iles who sits behind his

desk. Stellman and Haven pause at the door.

The Sergeant exits. Iles looks calmly and with relish at

Haven.

Haven and Stellman enter. Stellman closes the door and stands

near it. Haven smiles and nods at Iles, then sits down

unbidden.

Iles picks up the deposition, extends it.

Haven glances at him, then at the statement, and then tosses

it on the desk and inhales.

They look hard at each other in silence.

Haven turns and walks out; the door closes behind him. Iles

slumps down into his chair. Stellman is smiling faintly at

him.

As Stellman turns away.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

As Haven saunters in. Orville is, as always, behind the desk.

Haven nods at him.

He goes and Orville strums a little jail song.

FADE IN

EXT. COUNTRY - DAY

Haven, driving a wagon and team of horses, is retracing the

road he took back from the sawmill looking for the place

where he dumped the bullion.

CLOSER VIEW of Haven, as he looks for the landmarks. He is

whistling softly the tune that Charlie always sings. At last

he stops, alights and makes his way down the steep slope, a

couple of gunny sacks slung across his shoulder.

Bottom of the gulley as Haven gets there and locates the

crate at rest in a clump of brush. The crate has broken from

the fall. Haven loads the buckskin bags of gold into the

gunny sack and scrambles back up the slope.

Side of slope as Haven scrambles to the top, he finds himself

looking into a six-shooter held in the unwavering hand of

Mrs. Caslon. Her eyes are hard and a grim smile plays at the

corners of her mouth.

Haven obeys.

Haven turns. She takes his gun and tosses it in the wagon;

then glances inside the sack, sees the gold. She backs off a

step or two.

Haven turns to obey. He manages a smile at her.

He struggles with the sack, swings it onto the wagon in which

he came. Then stands back, looking at her.

She climbs to the seat of the wagon watching him warily.

Haven doesn't move.

She grabs the rein of her own horse, flicks the reins of the

wagon team and rides away, leaving Haven on the road,

horseless and very much discountenanced. He watches grimly

as she rides away. At a distance from him she tosses his gun

beside the road.

INT. CHARLIE'S SALOON - DAY

As Haven enters. He is dusty and tired from his long walk.

The place is moderately busy.

MED. SHOT of Haven as he sits tiredly at a table where Charlie

and Prince are sitting. She smiles at him.

The waiter exits. Charlie looks at Haven curiously.

He takes out the pipe, twirls it in his fingers. The waiter

puts down the champagne. Charlie is looking at Haven with

puzzlement and curiosity. The waiter goes...

Her face changes; hardens. She glances across at Prince.

Haven watches Prince with a smile.

There is a silence. Prince stares idly at the dice cubes in

his hand. Charlie stares straight at Haven. Haven glances at

Prince.

Prince just stares at him.

Haven takes a sip of the champagne, Charlie's whole manner

has now changed. It is cold and very quiet.

Haven reaches in his pocket for a match. Prince, mistaking

the gesture, swiftly extracts a small pistol from his belt,

covers him.

Haven extracts the match, with a glance of contempt at Prince;

then lights the pipe again.

There is a brief silence that punctuates this statement. It

has an air of fatal finality, marked by the idle MUSIC of

the deaf pianist. Haven puts his pipe away, carefully so

that Prince won't get any mistaken ideas.

Haven rises. He brushes some dust off his coat, smiles thinly

at Charlie.

She says nothing; her face carved out of ice. Prince smiles

thinly. Haven looks at him, shrugs. He hesitates; then pats

Charlie's frigid shoulder.

He turns and walks slowly out. The dirge of the piano follows

him. Prince fingers his pistol a little, tempted. At a look

from Charlie he puts it away. Haven goes out. Charlie suddenly

leaves the tables and goes quickly up the stairs. Prince

watches her with a slow smile, picks up Haven's gun and

pockets it...

EXT. STREET - DAY

As Haven leaves the saloon. He pauses, looks around, up at

the sky, then down the street. He takes out his pipe and

beginning filling it slowly with tobacco, as Mark Bristow

comes hurrying across the street.

MOVING SHOT of Haven as he walks very slowly, filling the

pipe, and Mark comes alongside and walks with him. Haven

hardly glances at him.

MED. SHOT of Haven and Mark outside the hotel. Mark is afraid

and puzzled. He keeps staring at Haven's face.

He pauses as two men walk by.

Mark's mouth pops open.

Haven lights the pipe. Mark stands there, mouth open; fear

draining the blood from his face. His voice is a mere whisper.

Mark stares at him, then looks off. His face becomes grim.

He almost glares back at Haven.

Mark stares at him, then turns abruptly away. He hurries

across the street. Haven watches him as he goes off in the

direction of Mrs. Caslon. Haven smiles and walks inside the

hotel.

INT. HAVEN'S ROOM - DAY

He enters, locks the door. Pulls the shade at the window,

takes off his shoes and coat and lies down on the bed. He

gazes towards the wall, thoughtfully. He gets up, goes to

the window, opens it softly; then looks out. Down the alley,

at the corner, a man is lounging; an ugly looking character,

whose eyes watch the alleyway. Haven smiles wryly, goes back

to the bed and lies down. The piano music starts next door.

INT. SALOON - DAY

Showing the deaf pianist at the piano, playing. CAMERA PICKS

UP Pete as he enters, FOLLOWS him as he walks up the stairs.

INT. UPPER HALLWAY - SALOON

As Pete knocks on Charlie's office door, then enters.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAY

As Pete enters. He looks around. Mick is sitting there and

Prince. Charlie is standing at the window. By another door

another grim character stands in silence. Charlie turns as

Peter enters.

Pete turns and walks out, shutting the door behind him. There

is silence. Charlie looks out the window again. Prince fools

with the dice. Mick stands stolidly near the door. At last

the silence is broken over the ticking of the wall clock.

She has not turned from the window. The clock ticks. From

behind her Mick's voice comes, quiet and deadly.

Mick is silent. Charlie smiles thinly.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

As Mark hurries into the saloon, a desperate look on his

face.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAY

As Charlie turns from the window.

Mick goes to the door, opens it; just as Mark arrives a little

breathlessly at the door. Mark enters, a little surprised at

the door opening for him, glancing back as Mick quietly shuts

it. Charlie looks coldly at the lawyer who is sweating again.

Mark stands there, silent a moment, gathering himself

together.

She has turned to the safe; now she turns with them and as

Mark reaches for them, Charlie drops them at his feet. They

scatter. He bends to pick them up. Prince smiles at him

contemptuously. Mark is picking them up one at a time when

suddenly he pauses, stands erect, and looks at them with

fear and suspicion.

Mark stands there. The papers slip from his fingers. He knows

what Prince means. But his mouth hardens in an effort.

Hands it to her.

She hands him the paper from the envelope. Marks takes it

and stares at it. It is absolutely a blank piece of paper.

He stands there, bites his lips. He looks wearily around at

them, fear making him weak, making him unable to hold the

piece of paper, so that it floats to the carpet.

He stops dead in his tracks as Charlie moves towards him

with a little pistol, pearl-handled. But she only gives it

to him. She has to take his hand and put it in his palm.

He backs out, the little gun in his hand. Mick opens the

door. In sudden relief and haste Mark barrels out. They can

hear his quick feet on the stairs outside. Prince looks at

Charlie.

Prince gets up and leaves, and Mick, with a grim smile of

anticipation follows. Charlie sits slowly down in the chair.

The music comes up the stairs and through the door.

INT. HAVEN'S BEDROOM - DAY

Haven is lying on the bed, his arms under his head, his eyes

on the ceiling. There is a SOUND in the hallway and then a

hurried knock at the door. Haven slowly rises, walks to the

door. He stands there. The knock SOUNDS again.

Haven opens the door. Mark enters swiftly, the little gun in

his hand. Haven shuts the door and locks it. He turns and

faces Mark, now pointing the gun. Without a word Haven walks

over to the bed and lies down again, looking at the ceiling.

Mark follows him with the gun.

Haven leans on one elbow, looking at him.

Haven lies back with a short laugh. Mark stares at him in

fury.

Haven again leans on one elbow, looking at Mark and the

trembling hand that holds the gun.

Mark sits slowly back in the chair, beaten.

Haven gets up slowly, reaches over and takes the little gun,

smiles at it.

He puts the gun on the table. Mark's teeth are chattering.

He is almost ready to cry. Haven gets a bottle and pours him

a drink in a dusty glass. He hands it to Mark.

Mark gets up waveringly. Takes another hooker.

Mark stares at him. Haven smiles grimly back.

Mark hurries out into the hall. Goes. Haven turns back and

looks at the room, picks up the little pistol, smiles at it.

Shrugs and then slips into his coat and exits, too.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

As Haven enters. SHOOTING FROM his ANGLE, we can see, as he

does, Mark crossing the street, apparently towards his law

office. He is in such a hurry that he falls down, crawls a

little, gets up, runs. Just as he reaches the office door,

just as his hand touches the knob, a shot rings out and he

crumples. He still tries, then his hand slips from the knob

and he lies there dead. The vacant street is empty with his

death. Haven stares. He takes a match from the counter,

applies it to his pipe -- then finding the pipe empty, smiles

thinly and pockets it

He takes the little pistol from his pocket and glances at

it. The clerk, watching, idly strumming the guitar string.

Haven smiles. He feels in his pocket, comes out with the

army button gotten at the sawmill.

The clerk stares at him; Haven smiles grimly. He breaks the

little gun, checks it.

He starts to the door, the little gun in hand; very slowly.

Watching him, the clerk twangs the strings softly. Haven

walks very slowly. He opens the door and hesitates. Just as

he is about to step out, looking up and down the street,

there is a furor and the sheriff rides up outside and

dismounts. Starts over to inspect Mark's body. He turns as

Haven walks on to the street, hands held high.

EXT. STREET - DAY

As Haven emerges and the Sheriff holds a gun on him.

ANGLE on Mick as down the street, with disgust, he lowers

his gun.

ANGLE on Prince as from a doorway he watches. Stopping with

a shake of his head the intent of a man beside him to shoot.

FULL SHOT -- street -- as Haven surrenders to the sheriff.

Haven obeys, walking up the street -- the sheriff and the

sheriff's horse behind him. People watch, appearing now in

safety. The sheriff is pretty pleased.

MOVING SHOT -- of Haven and Sheriff. As they go, Haven's

hands still aloft.

Back of them can now be seen the figures of Mick and Prince

and the other gunman, following at a little distance. Going

leisurely, now Haven slows his pace so that the sheriff is

closer behind him.

Haven suddenly drops to his knees. The sheriff almost walks

over him. The sheriff stumbles with an oath. Haven grapples

with him. Haven snatches his gun, drags him by a headlock to

the horse, flings him aside and then mounts. A second later

he is away. Shots RING OUT as Mick and Prince and the gunman

shoot. Haven rides on, bent low, out of town. The sheriff

hides his bulk in the dust as the bullets fly.

ANGLE from Charlie's office -- as she goes to the window,

stares out at the flying form of Haven. A slow smile comes

over her face, bitter and grim, yet somehow faintly

admiring... She sees Mick mount a horse and start after Haven.

Then she turns abruptly away.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

As Haven slows down his horse, but goes on at a fair clip

after looking warily back. He breaks open the sheriff's gun,

finds it loaded. He reacts and whistles softly. As he swings

his horse off the travelled road to head crosscountry for

the sawmill.

FADE IN

EXT. NEAR SAWMILL - NIGHT

As Haven sits on his horse at a point in the woods where he

can look down on the sawmill. Around the mill office there

seems to be signs of unusual activity. Haven sees Mick Marion

going by on the road towards the mill. Mick passes not far

away and is riding hard. Haven watches as Mick arrives and

Pete can be seen in conference with him. Other men -- too

many -- are gathered around. At last Haven dismounts and

makes his way carefully on foot towards the warehouse.

EXT. WOODS IN BACK OF WAREHOUSE

As Haven leaves his horse in the brush and trees and then

approaches the building. He finds a window in back, breaks

it with a stone; then waits tensely to see if the sound has

attracted any attention, gun in hand now. It doesn't. Haven

replaces the gun in his holster, opens the window and crawls

inside.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Haven surveys the piles of crates, boxes and equipment. He

starts his search methodically and swiftly. Suddenly a shaft

of light comes from the front doors opened now by two men.

Haven shrinks back, drawing his gun. The men start to enter

when Pete's voice is heard.

The men turn and leave. Haven relaxes. He goes back to work,

pulls back a big canvas tarpaulin one of the men had

approached, and there before him is revealed the army

uniforms, stacked in neat piles. He looks and smiles grimly.

Outside is the SOUND of horses and more men arriving. Haven

goes slowly around the warehouse now, looking for something.

At last he finds it: a can of kerosene. He takes it over to

the uniforms, pours it liberally on them. At just this moment

a figure appears at the door.

Haven lights a match and tosses it on the soaked bales of

uniforms. They blaze up instantly. The man shoots as Haven

ducks away.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

As the shot RINGS out. Pete and Mick, surrounded by many

men, turn swiftly. Flame and smoke emerge from the warehouse.

They start swiftly across, drawing guns. The man at the door

shoots again into the smoking interior. An answering SHOT

from Haven fells him.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

As Haven makes his way back to the open window. He crawls

out swiftly. Now the building is in flames. He can hear

shouting and, as he moves away, the useless attempt of men

to put out the blaze, working with buckets of water.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

As Haven starts for the woods. The flames now light the ground

around, and Pete appears around the side of the building.

Pete fires and Haven draws and shoots. Pete whirls away, hit

but still on his feet, driving forward, trying to shoot again

and this time Haven drills him clean and Pete goes down to

stay. Other men come up as Haven makes for the woods,

disappears.

Mick Marion and a dozen men appear, shooting. Mick suddenly

changes his mind, turns past the body of Pete, gets his horse

and heads back to town full tilt.

INT. WOODS - NIGHT

As Haven watches the flaming building. The slowly approaching

figures of the men are illumined in the big light of the

fire. Haven smiles, turns to the horse and moves slowly

through the trees to a place where he can mount; then mounts

and rides for it, SHOTS following him as he breaks into the

clear some hundred yards away and heads for the road that

Mick Marion took back to town. Bent low, Haven rides for his

life -- and makes it...

FADE IN

EXT. ARMY POST - DAWN

As Haven rides up, a detachment of men supervised by Stellman

is forming beside mounts in the parade ground. Haven dismounts

and starts inside. He glances at his wagon parked outside.

It is the one Mrs. Caslon took from him. He smiles slightly

as he notes it.

INT. ARMY POST - ILES' OFFICES - DAWN

Haven walks in, brushes past the desk sergeant with a cursory

nod and enters Iles' sanctum.

INT. ILES' OFFICE - DAWN

As Haven enters. Mrs. Caslon is there, and Iles, in full

field uniform. They look at him quickly as he enters; he

pauses, glances at Mrs. Caslon and then faces the explosive

Iles.

As Iles stares, dumbfounded, at this impertinence:

Iles gawks at him.

Iles nods vaguely.

Haven dips into a lining pocket under his arm and tosses a

paper at Iles. Iles glances at it, then looks, thunderstruck,

at Haven.

ILES' expression slowly changes. He smiles at last.

He shakes hands with Iles for second, then Iles goes out

abruptly. Outside we can hear abrupt commands to the Sergeant

before the door closes. Haven takes out his pipe, looks at

the silent, dumb-struck Mrs Caslon. He smiles at her slightly.

She gets her voice at last.

Outside "To Horse" is sounding. Haven glances out the window,

hardly aware of Mrs Caslon's presence.

She goes to the desk, gets it and hands it to him. He takes

the gun from his holster and hands it to her.

She takes it.

He puts his own gun in holster. Glances out the window.

He pats her shoulder in a gesture of goodbye and walks out

the door. She stands watching him, then moves to the window

and looks out.

EXT. POST - DAWN

As Haven walks outside towards his waiting horse. He pauses,

pipe in mouth, lighting the pipe now, his face intensely

interested as he watches the men form on the parade ground

in front of the mounted Iles and Stellman.

FULL SHOT of soldiers. As they mount to a brisk command, and

the color bearer takes position. Iles barks out a command;

the column forms into marching order. On the double quick,

the cavalry company starts out and on the way.

CLOSE SHOT of Haven as he watches; his eyes lighting a little,

the pipe in hand. We feel that he'd like to go too in this

moment.

ANOTHER ANGLE from Haven's view, as the column of cavalry

departs. Haven waves his hand, a half salute, a half gesture

to Iles as Iles salutes him in passing. Then only the dust

remains and Haven's gaze lingers. His face changes. It becomes

grim. He slowly knocks the ashes from the pipe, pockets it.

He slowly mounts the horse. He takes out his gun and checks

it. Then slowly he rides away, like a man on a mission he

dislikes but cannot evade.

INT. ILES OFFICE - DAWN

As Mrs. Caslon looks out the window. Her face, tense, as she

watches the lonely figure go; her hand waves slightly.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAWN

Charlie is standing by the desk and window. Prince is sitting

there, talking, the inevitable dice in his fingers.

THERE is SOUND of massed horses outside and Charlie looks

out. Prince walks to the window. They look in silence.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

As Iles rides by at full gallop, followed by a troop of

cavalry, headed for the sawmill.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAWN

As they watch. Prince turns away.

Prince crosses to the window and stands looking at Charlie.

Charlie looks at him but does not answer and then she turns

to the window, and smiles slightly. Prince follows her gaze

to the street. His face is grim.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

Haven, mounted, is coming up the street. Slowly and carefully

he progresses to the front of the saloon.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAWN

As Charlie glances at Prince.

He turns and goes quietly and swiftly from the room. Charlie

stands thoughtfully. There is nothing in her look or manner

to indicate that what Prince has said has made the slightest

impression on her.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

As Haven comes up to the saloon door.

INT. SALOON DAWN

As Prince moves into a shadowy corner.

ANGLE ON the door as Haven enters and looks around. He sees

no one. The place seems utterly deserted. It is soundless.

CAMERA FOLLOWS Haven as he moves slowly. He has replaced the

gun, but he is alert.

ANGLE ON Prince as he watches Haven, now a perfect target,

not looking in his direction. Prince raises the gun a little,

but the dice in his over hand click ever so faintly.

SHOT OF Haven as he stops dead in his tracks, hand on the

gun again, alert at the slight sound of the dice. Now facing

towards the shadow where Prince is hidden. He stands ready

and rigid for a long still moment. When there is no further

sound or movement, he goes on towards the stairs.

ANGLE ON Prince as he moves slightly from the shadow as Haven

goes to the stairs. Prince is ready to shoot again, but now

the angle on Haven up the stairs is no good. He lowers the

gun with disgust, then moves softly out of the shadow.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAWN

She gets a gun out of the drawer, looks at it, smiles, drops

it back into the drawer, moves around the desk and faces the

door, composing herself and waiting.

EXT. CHARLIE'S DOOR

As Haven pauses, pushes it open. Then walks slowly in.

INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAWN

She is standing with her back to the desk, her fingers tight

on the edge of the desk as Haven walks in. He stops and looks

around and then at her. There is a slight smile on her face.

He hands her the little derringer she had given to Mark.

She puts the little gun on the desk.

He hands her the paper he showed Iles. She just glances at

it without touching it. Smiles at him.

Her eyes pass him towards the door behind him.

At the bare rustle of SOUND behind him (and the memory of

her eyes going past him) Haven whirls, stopping aside and

drawing as he does so. And just as he does so, Prince, in

the doorway, fires. Haven shoots so that the shots RING OUT

almost simultaneously. Prince topples forward on his knees

and then his face. The dice roll out of his unclenched left

hand.

MED. SHOT of Haven and Charlie as their eyes read the dice.

Haven puts away the gun. Charlie is still leaning against

the desk, but there is a strange look on her face. A thin

smile for Haven. Now she sags a little and Haven realizes

she has been hit. He starts to her and she turns away towards

the couch. He catches her as she sags again, and helps her

down gently on the couch.

ANGLE on couch as Haven kneels beside her. He starts to pull

away the top of her dress, but the wound is close to the

heart. She shakes her head.

Haven knows it. He takes her hand and squeezes it.

Haven stares grimly at her face. She gives him a faint smile.

She holds herself tight a moment; then looks at him again,

the faint smile returning.

She starts to die. He takes her shoulders in his hands as

though to kiss her or hold her back to life. Her voice is

almost a whisper.

She goes, slumping back. He sits there, pats her shoulder in

a familiar absent-minded way, then slowly rises. Grimly,

Haven walks out of the room.

MOVING SHOT as Haven goes down the stairway. The deaf pianist

is playing as always.

INT. HOTEL

Orville is at his old seat behind the desk. He is playing

the last verse of the ballad. Haven enters and crosses to

his bag, his face blank and grim. He picks up his bag, turns

and walks out, as though not hearing the guitar and the

ballad. As he goes into the street --

