White letters on a black screen:

The wicked flee when none pursueth.

The quotation fades.

A woman's voice:

The street of a western town, night. The street is deserted. Snow falls.

We track slowly forward.

A shape lies in the street below the busted-out porch railing of a two-story building. A

sign identifies the building as the Monarch Boarding House.

The crumpled shape is a body. We hear the thunder of approaching hooves.

A galloping horse enters frame and recedes, whipped on by a bareback rider. A long-

barreled rifle is tied across the rider's back with a sash cord.

He disappears into the falling snow.

DAY

We are looking into the window of a moving train.

Looking out past us is a fourteen-year-old girl, Mattie Ross. Next to her is Yarnell, a

middle-aged black man. Reading backward in the mirror of the window we see a station

sign easing in as the train slows: FORT SMITH.

The voice-over continues:

DEAD MAN'S FACE

Candlelight flickers over the man's waxy features.

The body, wrapped in a shroud, lies in a pine coffin. Mattie and Yarnell stand looking

down at it. An undertaker, grizzled and severely dressed, holds the candle.

If you would loik to kiss him it would be all roight.

He has gone home. Praise the lord.

Put the lid on. Why is it so much?

The quality of the casket and of the embalming. The loifloik

appearance requires time and art. And the chemicals come

dear. The particulars are in your bill. If you would loik to

kiss him it would be all roight.

No. Thank you. The spirit has flown. Your wire said fifty

dollars.

You did not specify he was to be shipped.

Well sixty dollars is every cent we have. It leaves nothing

for our board. Yarnell, you can see to the body's transport to

the train station and accompany it home, and I will have to

sleep here tonight.

I don't think your mama'd want you to stay in this town by

yourself.

It can't be helped. I still have to collect father's things and

see to some other business.

But I's your chap-a-rone! Your mama didn't say for you to

see to no business here!

It is business Mama doesn't know about. It's all right,

Yarnell, I dismiss you.

To the undertaker:

Mattie looks around the empty room.

GALLOWS

Three men stand upon a rough-hewn three-banger gallows. The condemned are two white

men and an Indian. They wear new jeans and flannel shirts buttoned to the neck. Each has

a noose around his neck. One of the white men is addressing the crowd:

Mattie is pushing her way through the spectators thronging the town square.

Up on the gallows the condemned speaker starts to weep.

His blubbering will not let him go on. He steps back. A man standing by slips a black

hood over his head which continues to bob with sobbing.

Mattie hisses to a woman nearby:

The woman indicates a figure among the officiators on the scaffold:

The second condemned man is speaking:

A thinking pause. He nods, shrugging.

He steps back and is hooded.

The third man steps forward.

He is hooded, speech cut short. The hangman, hand to his elbow, helps him step back.

The executioner pulls a lever on the scaffold. Three trapdoors swing open and three men

drop. They hit the end of their ropes with a crack.

Two of the men have their heads snapped to an angle and are limp and twist slowly. One,

though, writhes and kicks, jackknifing his legs.

Sullivan continues to writhe and kick.

Mattie looks down at a boy selling hot tamales out of a bucket.

LATER

Mattie is talking to the sheriff whom we saw officiating on the scaffold. The square is

emptying and, in the background, all three men twist slowly, the last man having finally

given up the ghost. The Mexican boy still hawks tamales to stragglers.

The sheriff looks at the girl and chuckles.

MATTIE'S HAND

Rapping at a door of rough plank.

After a beat, a voice--rasping and slurred:

Wider. We see that Mattie stands before an outhouse.

Beat.

No response. Mattie reaches up and raps again, vigorously.

Beat.

PLANK FLOOR

A coffin is dropped heavily into frame and we see, chalked onto the freshly milled wood of

its top:

After a resting beat, during which the coffin's handlers presumably adjust their grip, the

coffin is shoved away over the straw-littered planking of a rail freight car. Once it has

been pushed fully in, the upright planking of the boxcar door blurs through frame in the

extreme foreground til the door slams to rest.

We hear the steam engine start to chug, and the foreground door moves slowly off with the

grinding motion of the train.

SHOP DOOR

Swinging open. It is the barnlike door to the mortician's workroom; the Irish undertaker

holds it open for Mattie. She carries a bedroll.

Three bodies lay under shrouds on a high work table. The arm of the nearest sticks out,

rope burns on its wrist. Three coffins are in various stages of assembly.

Mattie unwinds the bedroll onto the floor.

STREET

Mattie strides along, looking at facades. She stops, looking at the signage on a barnlike

building:

INSIDE

Mattie steps to the doorway of an office set in a corner of the stable.

Stonehill looks up from his desk. He eyes the girl up and down.

Stonehill sets his pen down and leans back.

Beat.

Stonehill chuckles.

Stonehill stares.

all liability from the beginning of the world to date. The

offer is more than liberal and I make it only to avoid the

possibility of troublesome litigation.

I will take two hundred dollars for Judy, plus one hundred

for the ponies and twenty-five dollars for the gray horse that

Tom Chaney left. He is easily worth forty. That is three

hundred twenty-five dollars total.

The ponies have no part of this. I will not buy them.

Then the price for Judy is three hundred twenty-five dollars.

I would not pay three hundred and twenty-five dollars for

winged Pegasus! As for the gray horse, it does not belong to

you! And you are a snip!

The gray was lent to Tom Chaney by my father. Chaney

only had the use of him. Your other points are beneath

comment.

I will pay two hundred and twenty-five dollars and keep the

gray horse. I don't want the ponies.

I cannot accept that. (she stands) There can be no

settlement after I leave this office. It will go to law.

This is my last offer. Two hundred and fifty dollars. For

that I get the release previously discussed and I keep your

father's saddle. I am also writing off a feed and stabling

charge. The gray horse is not yours to sell. You are an

unnatural child.

The saddle is not for sale. I will keep it. Lawyer Dagget can

prove ownership of the gray horse. He will come after you

with a writ of replevin.

STREET

We are tracking down the street we toward the Monarch Boarding House.

Mattie is humping a saddle up the street. She stops before the boarding house. She looks

at its sign. She looks at its busted-out porch railing.

INSIDE THE PARLOR

A Marjorie Main-like woman crushes Mattie to her bosom.

Mattie grimaces, arms pinned to her sides.

BEDROOM

A blanket is unrolled to reveal a watch, a cheap knife, and a long-barreled Colt's dragoon

revolver. Voice off:

DARK ROOM

We hear wind whistling through cracks in the floorboards and walls.

We hear snoring.

There is one bed, not large, with two shapes in it.

We cut in closer to find Mattie lying on her back, staring. She shivers, shoulders hunched.

The thin blanket barely covers her.

She pulls the blanket gently, slowly, so that it covers her exposed side.

A beat of snoring, a snorfle, and then, as we hold on Mattie, the crackle of mattress ticking

under a shifting body--and the blanket is pulled away toward the unseen snorer.

COURT HALLWAY

Voices echo from inside the courtroom. Mattie cracks a heavy oak door and slips in.

COURTROOM

The gallery is crowded. Mattie is at the back of a press of standees.

Her point-of-view, semi-obstructed: on the witness stand is Rooster Cogburn, a rough-

hewn man going to middle-aged fat. He has a patch over one eye.

And then?

Well he died on us. Passed away in considerable pain.

What did you do then?

Me and Marshal Potter went out to the smokehouse and that

rock had been moved and that jar was gone.

Objection. Speculative.

Sustained.

You found a flat gray rock at the corner of the smokehouse

with a hollowed-out space under it?

If the prosecutor is going to give evidence I suggest that he

be sworn.

Marshal Cogburn, what did you find, if anything, at the

corner of the smokehouse?

We found a flat gray rock with a hollowed-out space under

it. Nothin there.

And what did--

No jar or nothin.

What did you do then?

Well we rode up to the Whartons', near where the North

Fork strikes the Canadian, branch of the Canadian.

And what did you find?

I had my glass and we spotted the two boys and their old

daddy, Aaron Wharton, down there on the creek bank with

some hogs. They'd killed a shoat and was butchering it.

They'd built a fire under a wash pot for scalding water.

What did you do?

Crept down. I announced that we was U.S. marshals and

hollered to Aaron that we needed to talk to his boys. He

picked up a axe and commenced to cussing us and

blackguarding this court.

What did you do then?

Backed away trying to talk some sense into him. But C.C.

edges over by the wash pot and picks up a shotgun. Potter

seen him but it was too late. C.C. Wharton pulled down on

Potter with one barrel and then turned to do the same for me

with the other. I shot him and when the old man swung the

axe I shot him. Odus lit out and I shot him. Aaron Wharton

and C.C. Wharton was dead when they hit the ground but

Odus was just winged.

Did you find the jar with the hundred and twenty dollars in

it?

Leading.

Sustained.

What happened then?

I found the jar with a hundred and twenty dollars in it.

And what happened to Marshal Potter?

Died. Leaves a wife and six babies.

Objection.

Strike the comment.

And what became of Odus Wharton?

There he sets.

Okay. You may ask, Mr. Goudy.

Thank you, Mr. Barlow. In your four years as U.S. marshal,

Mr. Cogburn, how many men have you shot?

Objection.

There is more to this shooting than meets the eye, Judge

Parker. I will establish the bias of this witness.

Objection is overruled.

How many, Mr. Cogburn?

Beat.

The history is relevant your honor. Goes to Cogburn's

methods and animosities.

Okay.

Did you also shoot Dub Wharton, brother, and Clete

Wharton, half-brother?

Clete was selling ardent spirits to the Cherokee. He come at

me with a king bolt.

You were armed and he advanced upon you with nothing but

a king bolt? From a wagon tongue?

I've seen men badly tore up with things no bigger than a

king bolt. I defended myself.

And, returning to the encounter with Aaron and his two

remaining sons, you sprang from cover with your revolver in

hand?

I did.

Loaded and cocked?

If it ain't loaded and cocked it don't shoot.

And like his son, Aaron Wharton advanced against an armed

man?

He was armed. He had that axe raised.

Yes. I believe you testified that you backed away from

Aaron Wharton?

That is right.

Which direction were you going?

I always go backwards when I'm backing up.

Very amusing I suppose--for all of us except Aaron

Wharton. Now, he advanced upon you much in the manner

of Clete Wharton menacing you with that king bolt or rolled-

up newspaper or whatever it was.

Yes sir. He commenced to cussing and laying about with

threats.

And you were backing away? How many steps before the

shooting started?

Seven, eight steps?

Aaron Wharton keeping pace, advancing, away from the fire

seven eight steps--what would that be, fifteen, twenty feet?

I suppose.

Will you explain to the jury, Mr. Cogburn, why Mr. Wharton

was found immediately by the wash pot with one arm in the

fire, his sleeve and hand smoldering?

Well.

COURTHOUSE PORCH

Mattie waits as people file out. She pushes forward to meet Cogburn when he emerges,

muttering.

He does not look up from the cigarette he is trying to roll. His hands are shaking.

She takes the fixings and rolls, licks, and twists the cigarette.

Cogburn gazes at her.

She opens it. Cogburn smiles.

EVENING--BOARDING HOUSE PORCH

Mattie climbs the few steps from the street. Her attention is drawn by:

A man sitting on a chair to one side enjoying the quiet of the evening. He is dressed for

riding, with perhaps a bit too much panache. It is almost dark and he is hard to see but it

seems he is watching Mattie, amused.

He raises a pipe to his mouth and pulls at it. The glow from the excited bowl kicks on his

eyes, which are indeed tracking her.

Mattie, discomfited by his look, turns hastily forward and pushes open the door. A

jingling sound prompts one more glance to the side.

The man's face is now hidden by his hat. Just before Mattie's point of view, now a lateral

track, starts to lose him behind the door jamb, he raises a spurred boot to push against the

porch rail and tip his chair back. He raises his other foot, spur jingling, and drapes it over

the first.

INSIDE

We are pushing in on the landlady.

DARK BEDROOM

As before, unseen Grandma Turner snores loudly as wind whistles and Mattie shivers.

Fade to black.

Very quiet.

In the quiet, a faint crickle-crackle of flame. It is followed by a lip-pop and a deep inhale.

Mattie opens her eyes. She is beaded with sweat. She looks blearily up.

The room is dim. A man sits facing her in a straghtback chair, faintly backlit by the

daylight leaking through the curtained window behind him. He exhales pipesmoke.

The man rises and, spurs jingling, crosses to the window, and throws open the curtain.

Mattie squints at him against the daylight:

The man has a cowlick and barndoor ears and is once again well-accoutered for riding. He

steps away from the window and reseats himself.

LeBoeuf takes a small photograph from his coat.

Mattie looks at the picture through red-rimmed eyes.

Mattie declines to contradict. LeBoeuf continues:

LeBoeuf tips back in his chair and draws back his coat to display a star. A smug look.

LeBoeuf's smile stays in place with effort.

LeBoeuf stands.

Mattie rolls away onto her side.

Her eyelids droop.

Spurs jingle and fade away.

Distant voices from the street. Clanging church bell. Very close, the clink of bottle

against cup.

Mattie looks blearily over. The room is now filled with long shadows.

The landlady has materialized at the side of the bed. She is pouring something from a

bottle into a ceramic cup.

Mattie obediently rises to an elbow, drinks, then drops back onto the pillow. A clunk:

The landlady has set the bottle down on the nightstand.

Mattie squints at the bottle:

The room's shadows grow longer still and crawl up the bottle.

The voice of the unseen landlady echoes and trails away:

From outside, the sound of a horse approaching at a gallop.

We cut outside. It is snowing, and night again.

Frank Ross's body is once again in the street before the boarding house.

The bareback horseman enters frame and recedes, rifle tied to his back.

A saddled horse stands in the middle of the street, pointed at the receding Tom Chaney.

Chaney disappears down the dark street into the falling snow.

Small hands reach up and wrap the saddlehorn on the waiting horse.

Mattie's face appears over the saddle as she tries to pull herself up.

Close on her feet rising from the ground, then pedaling, seeking purchase. There are no

stirrups.

Close on Mattie again. Sweating, she succeeds in chinning and elbowing herself onto the

horse's back. The sound of the fleeing horseman has receded almost to nothing.

She gets herself arranged in the saddle. She looks down for the reins.

The reins hang down from the bit.

She lies forward onto the horse's neck, a fistful of mane in one hand, reaching with the

other. . . reaching down. . . her fingers curl around the reins. . . she pulls.

The horse tosses its head and rears.

Mattie's legs squeeze the horses flanks.

Her fingers tighten on the horses mane but she is slipping, falling. . .

In the boarding house bedroom Mattie's hands clutch at pillow.

It is dark.

A phlegm-hawking sound.

A woman in a nightgown, face obscured by sleeping bonnet, approaches the bed and

disappears around its far side.

The sound of the old woman climbing into bed and settling.

After a beat, the covers are yanked from Mattie.

After another beat--snoring.

POST OFFICE

The door bangs open at the cut and Mattie emerges with an envelope.

It is day.

STREET

Mattie walks down the street holding the ripped-open envelope in one hand and some

unfolded papers in the other, the topmost of which she reads as she walks.

We hear the letter's contents in a gruff male voice-over:

PAPERS

Thrust onto a desk.

Wider shows that we are once again in the office of Stonehill, the stock trader. He

examines the release through bleary eyes, displaying none of his former vinegar.

The trader's eyes are still on the paper:

He drops the paper.

He works a key in a drawer and takes out money and counts during the following.

He hands the money across and Mattie counts to confirm.

STABLE

We are tracking along a line of stalls toward a small corral holding a black mustang,

among other ponies.

Mattie is approaching the horse. A black stablehand has been trailing her, humping her

father's saddle.

She rubs the muzzle of the black horse.

She takes the saddle from the stablehand and tries to throw it over the horse. She is not tall

or strong enough.

The stableboy helps, then helps her up.

The horse does not move for a long beat.

The stableboy is laughing.

She kicks lightly and the horse abruptly pitches once or twice and then starts prancing.

The stableboy, still laughing, stands in the middle of a circle defined by the prancing horse.

Mattie leans forward to calm the horse, rubbing the muzzle and shushing him.

She straightens.

She reins the horse around and heads for the door, calling back:

The receding stableboy is uncomfortable.

CANVAS FLAP

Whipped up at the cut.

Peering in is Mattie; holding the makeshift curtain open is an elderly Chinese.

Behind them we can see the shelves of a modest grocery store and in the deep background

its bright street-facing window.

Reverse: a squalid living area crowded with effects. It is dim. There is snoring. Rooster

Cogburn is in a Chinese rope bed, his weight bowing it almost to the ground.

Mattie steps in.

Mattie ignores him, poking at Rooster as the grocer withdraws, letting the canvas drop

behind him.

Rooster opens his eyes, blinks.

He focuses on Mattie, swings his legs out, rumbles, and spits on the floor.

He reaches over a pouch of tobacco and begins fumbling with cigarette makings.

A voice from the front of the store:

Mattie takes out some cash.

Rooster is sobered by the sight of the currency.

Mattie takes the cigarette fixings at which Rooster is fumbling and works on a cigarette.

He spits again.

She hands him the finished cigarette.

Rooster is patting at his chest.

She lights his cigarette.

The word detonates a fit of coughing.

Rooster stares, nonplussed.

He drops back into the rope bed, which sets it swaying. As he stares up at the ceiling:

GRANDMA TURNER'S ROOM

Mattie makes early-morning preparations to leave as Grandma Turner snores. She unrolls

her father's traps and takes out a big-brimmed fisherman's hat and puts it on: too big. She

lines it with newspaper, experimenting with the amount until it fits. She puts on his coat,

gives the sleeves a big cuff. She examines the Colt's dragoon. She drops apples into a

sack.

She finishes by folding a letter she has written and putting it into an envelope.

Throughout, we have been hearing its contents in voice-over:

EXTERIOR BOARDING HOUSE

Mattie is cinching her gear onto Little Blackie. She mounts and rides off as the letter ends:

INTERIOR GROCERY

Tracking toward Rooster's rope bed. A hat is pulled down over the face of the figure

reclining in it. Smoke sifts up from somewhere.

Mattie draws up to the figure with mounting concern. She pulls the hat off. It is the

elderly Chinese grocer.

The grocer reaches a pipe and pulls on it. His manner is dreamy.

The grocer pulls an envelope from underneath his robe and hands it to Mattie. He closes

his eyes and drifts away.

Mattie pulls a scrap of paper from the envelope and reads:

Mattie's jaw tightens. She abruptly crumples the paper.

RIVER

Mattie gallops down an embankment to a river of some width. At the near-side ferry

station a raft enclosed by railing waits, its guide rope strung across the river. A pilot

idles on the near shore.

On the far shore two small figures, mounted, ascend the opposite bank. Mattie draws up in

front of the ferryman at the edge of the river.

He reaches for the reins of her horse.

The ferryman is leading Little Blackie back up the hill toward the town. Mattie cranes

around to look at the two small figures across the river. They have twisted in their saddles

to look back.

She looks at the dull man's unresponsive back. She twists to look across the river.

The two mounted figures are breaking their look back and resuming their climb up the

bank.

Mattie draws an apple from the bag slung round the saddlehorn and pegs it, hard as she

can, at the ferryman.

It hits him square in the back of the head. He reacts, reaching to his head and dropping the

reins.

Mattie has already leaned forward for the reins and sweeps them back. She saws Little

Blackie around and sends him galloping for the river.

She urges the horse, at the gallop, into the river.

The splashing and shouts have again drawn the attention of the two men across the river.

As the horse goes further into the river its up-and-down gait slows, the water offering

resistance.

The ferryman has run down to the bank. He stoops for a rock and throws it. It misses by a

mile.

Little Blackie leaves riverbottom and starts swimming.

The two men across the river, having twisted to look, now rein their horses round to face

the action. But they do not advance. They rest forearms on pommels and watch.

Little Blackie is being carried downstream as he swims against a swift current.

Little Blackie's head dips as he finds his feet again. He slogs laboriously to what is now

the nearer shore.

The two men up the bank impassively watch.

The horse and Mattie emerge fully from the river, dripping.

Mattie taps heels against Little Blackie's flanks and walks him slowly up the bank. She

stops many yards short of the two men--Rooster and LeBoeuf.

A silent standoff as Little Blackie breathes heavily. The two expressionless men still have

not stirred.

At length:

A long pause.

Rooster licks his lips, thinking.

A heavy silence as Cogburn stares at her.

LeBoeuf looks between the two, waiting for Rooster to take action. Gathering that he will

not, LeBoeuf slides off his horse.

Mattie watches as he walks to Little Blackie, holding up a gentling hand for the horse to

sniff at and nuzzle.

He abruptly swipes the reins with one hand and with the other grabs Mattie's ankle. He

pushes momentarily to unstirrup the foot and then pulls hard, tumbling Mattie to the

ground.

He begins to spank her.

Rooster sits impassively on his horse.

Mattie is struggling and in spite of herself starts to weep. LeBoeuf drags her through the

dirt to a mesquite bush and snaps off a switch.

Mattie, wet and filthy, tries vainly to swat back. Rooster still watches without expression

as LeBoeuf whips the girl.

Finally, quietly:

LeBoeuf looks back, for a moment too surprised to speak. He then regains his resolve:

He returns to the beating.

The sound of a gun being cocked.

LeBoeuf leaves off the beating to stare at Rooster--whose gun is drawn, cocked, and

pointed at him.

LeBoeuf flings the switch aside and stalks to his horse. He mutters, but loud enough to be

heard:

CAMPFIRE

Mattie sits looking into the fire, hands clasped around her knees.

LeBoeuf sits feet to the fire, smoking a pipe that, with his boyish face, makes him look as

if he is playing at professor. He gazes into the fire, musing as he pulls at the pipe.

Rooster enters the circle of light with an armload of wood.

Rooster gazes at LeBoeuf for a beat, then dumps the wood onto the fire.

He leaves the circle of light.

LeBoeuf addresses the darkness that Rooster has disappeared into:

He reenters with a length of rope, and a robe which he unrolls onto the ground.

Rooster plays out one end of the rope to just touch the ground, then starts playing out the

rest as he paces.

He has finished making a loop around his sleeping robe. Seeing this, LeBoeuf laughs.

As he leaves the circle of light:

He reenters with a bottle and settles down on his robe.

LeBoeuf leaps angrily to his feet.

Silence. Crackling fire.

LeBoeuf continues to glare at Rooster, breathing heavily.

Rooster, with a loud flap, whips the robe over himself.

DAWN

We are close on Mattie's upturned face. Snowflakes are drifting down onto it and

melting. Mattie's eyes blink open.

Rooster is already at his horse, packing it. LeBoeuf is not in evidence.

Mattie rises.

A toss of his head:

Rooster gives a vicious tug on the cinchrope.

Rooster turns to her.

We hear spurs jingling.

LeBoeuf has appeared.

LeBoeuf is already mounting his shaggy horse.

He saws the horse around.

LeBoeuf gallops off with the thunder of hoofs and the jingle of spurs, and Rooster,

seething, turns back to his work.

As the hoofbeats recede, Mattie sounds a note of regret:

EXTERIOR BAGBY'S STORE

A mule is pulling back on a cotton rope round his neck that is tied off to the porch of the

ramshackle store. The beast is strangling as the rope is too tight, and he is being poked

with sticks by two motley-dressed Indian boys up on the porch.

Rooster enters and cuts the rope. The mule brays and canters off, shaking its head, rope

dangling.

Rooster is already mounting the steps to the porch.

He kicks the first youth hard in the ass, sending him sprawling off the porch into the dirt.

The second backs against the railing and Rooster shoves him in the chest so that he flips

backward to also land in the dirt.

Mattie, astride Little Blackie, holds the reins of Cogburn's horse. As he disappears inside

the two youths climb back onto the porch. They sit at the lip, feet dangling, and stare

sullenly at Mattie. She stares back.

MINUTES LATER

The youths have not moved. The door bangs open and Rooster emerges.

Crossing back he kicks one of the boys off the porch into the dirt again. The other youth

scampers out of footreach. Rooster starts down the stairs.

With a ching he flips a coin to Mattie. She inspects it: gold, square, with a +-shaped cut-

out in the middle.

Rooster mounts up.

The youth who was kicked into the dirt is dusting himself off. He has been listening

without interest.

Rooster reins his horse around to go.

RIDING

Rooster and Mattie ride abreast along a barely defined road.

He frowns and draws up, looking at something. Mattie follows his look.

A man is hanging in a tree--very high, perhaps thirty feet off the ground. The body slowly

twists. The head seems unnaturally large.

At Rooster's shout something separates from the head: we have been looking at not just the

corpse's silhouette but that of a large carrion-eating bird as well, perched on the corpse's

shoulder and feeding at the corpse's face. The bird flaps clumsily off.

Rooster gazes at the strung-up body.

Rooster gets off his horse, pulls a knife from his gear, and ambles to the tree. Mattie

follows.

When she arrives Rooster has started sawing at the rope that ties the body off, wrapped

around a chest-high branch stump. Mattie looks up.

She is looking mostly at soles of feet as the foreshortened body twists slowly, high above.

She does. Rooster steps back as well as the almost-cut-through rope starts to unravel by

itself, crazily twisting under the pressure and gently spinning the body above.

The rope snaps. It yanks violently upward, slapping branches.

The body drops--perhaps four feet--and jerks to a stop, jacknifing and dancing.

They both gaze up at the body.

UP IN THE TREE

Mattie is well up.

We hear Rooster's voice from below:

Mattie pauses, looking down.

We are over her. Rooster is foreshortened, a long way down, looking up, smoking a

cigarette. He reacts to her look down:

She looks up, down again, and then proceeds. Rooster continues as well:

Mattie stretches onto tiptoes, reaches, just gets fingers around a branch. She secures it

enough with the one hand to dare to reach with the other. She hauls herself up.

Mattie looks out, at waist-height to the corpse, which twists maybe eight feet away over

the void. Rooster notes her look:

The face is half-eaten and eyeless.

She moves to start back down, but Rooster calls:

She climbs one more branch to arrive at the hanging branch. She shimmies out onto it and

pulls the knife from Rooster's belt now around her waist.

Mattie looks down, over the shoulder of the close-by foreshortened corpse to the far

foreshortened Rooster.

She calls out as she starts sawing:

The sawing continues.

Rooster takes one step back.

The rope snaps. At once:

The body drops.

The branch, unburdened, bucks with Mattie atop it.

She gasps, hugging at the branch, getting swung halfway around it but then righting

herself.

The body hits the ground with a smack.

Mattie looks.

The body is spread out on the ground below, many bones now broken, its posture absurd.

Rooster steps forward. He toes the upper body to get a view of the face. Barely audible:

He reacts to something, looking up the road in the direction of their heading.

Mattie looks out. Partly obscured by intervening foliage, an oncoming rider. His pace is

unhurried.

Down on the ground Rooster turns to face the rider--an Indian with a long-bore rifle

balanced sideways across the pommel of his saddle. He wears a tattered Union Army

jacket, crossed bandoliers of rifle shells and a black homburg hat with a feather in its brim.

Rooster drops his hand to his gun as the rider approaches.

Mattie looks down at the foreshortened rider pulling up under the tree. She hears a

greeting and a mostly inaudible exchange.

After some back-and-forth the Indian dismounts. The men stoop at either end of the

corpse. Rooster grabs wrists, the Indian, ankles. They lift.

Mattie frowns. She starts to move.

A MINUTE LATER

Mattie finishes climbing down.

Rooster is just returning from the road to their two horses by the tree. The Indian, with the

corpse slung over the rump of his horse, is resuming his trip in the direction from which

Rooster and Mattie came.

Rooster mounts.

He looks up at the sky as snowflakes start to sift down.

RIDING

It is snowing lightly. Rooster and Mattie are clomping through a stream.

A distant gunshot.

Rooster stops. He twists to look behind.

A listening beat. At length:

Mattie thinks.

MINUTES LATER

Rooster waits, sitting casually astride his horse in the middle of the road. Snow continues

to fall.

A jingling noise up the road.

Movement: an advancing rider seen through the foliage that masks a bend in the road.

Rooster straightens.

The oncoming rider rounds the bend.

He approaches: a white man with big whiskers, his horse leading a packhorse loaded with

clinking and jangling sundries. Draped on his own horse's rump is the hanged man's

body.

The stranger wears a fierce bear head as hat. The rest of the bearskin trails down his body

as robe.

He advances unhurriedly towards Rooster. At a few yards' distance he draws up, content

to sit his horse and solemnly return Rooster's stare.

At length:

Rooster straightens as if to rein his horse around but stops with a thought:

A pause.

The Bear Man tilts his head to indicate the corpse behind him.

NIGHT

A point-of-view looking down on a thrown-together cabin dug into the flanks of a ravine.

Its roof meets hillside at the rear. Smoke is coming out of a rough chimney.

Rooster and Mattie have paused at the crest of the rise above the dugout to look. Rooster

shrugs out of his coat.

As Mattie descends to where hillside meets structure Rooster takes his rifle and walks

around to the front door--crude planking hung on leather-strap hinges. His footsteps

crunch in the snow.

The door is yanked open, inches, and a backlit face appears over a hand holding a revolver.

Rooster halts.

The door slams.

After a moment the light inside goes out.

Mattie, arriving on the roof, looks steeply down on Rooster. He glances up, thinking. He

does not sign. He looks back at the door.

Rooster looks up at Mattie. He nods.

She balls the jacket and stuffs it into the chimney.

Rooster takes ten paces to one side of the door and then kneels in the snow, raising his

rifle.

Long beat.

Muffled coughs from inside the house--more than one person.

Activity inside--yelling--the hiss of fire being doused. Suddenly:

The door flies open and--BANG! BANG!--two shotgun blasts.

Slightest beat as Mattie peers into the yard, and then--BANG!--shot rips through the

roof just at her feet.

A rifle blast--from Rooster. A yelp of pain from inside.

Rooster cocks his head.

Thinking beat.

Thinking beat.

The door opens again. From the smoky black a shotgun and two revolvers are tossed out.

Then, orange light: a lamp is lit. Two men emerge, one limping and holding onto the

other, who holds high the lamp.

INSIDE

Rooster has coaxed the fire back to life. He peers into the large pot hanging over it.

The cuffed men sit side-by-side on a plank bench behind a plank table, staring at Mattie.

Moon's leg is bound with a large blue handkerchief.

Quincy sounds resentful:

He stirs the pot with a wooden spoon.

Moon nods agreement, but has a different thought:

Rooster, continuing to nose around, pushes the canvas cover off a crate of bottles.

Rooster spoons sofky from the pot into a bowl

Rooster sits across from the men with his bowlful of sofky and starts eating.

Raises a spoonful.

Moon looks at Quincy, who gives a hard look back.

Rooster shrugs at Moon.

He reacts to Mattie, staring at him.

Mattie's look shifts to Moon.

Beat.

Quincy jerks up one knee, banging the bottom of the table and sloshing Rooster's sofky as

he grabs something from his boot: a knife.

He slams it down on Moon's cuffed hand, chopping off four fingers. They fly like chips

from a log.

As Moon screams Rooster mutters:

Quincy flips the knife lightly in the air and regrabs it with blade pointing opposite-wise.

He twists and rears with cuffed hands to plunge the knife into Moon's chest.

Rooster has his gun out now and fires.

Quincy jerks back, hit in the face. Blood spatters Mattie. Quincy, still seated, slides

awkwardly down the wall.

Moon has fallen to the floor, knife in chest.

Rooster and Mattie stand over him.

Eyes wide, he gazes down his body.

OUTSIDE

Mattie's point-of-view: the dark shoulders of the wooded hills, funneling down to the

ravine. It is all very still except for falling snow.

Mattie stands outside the cabin door, hugging herself, keeping watch.

The door opens and Rooster emerges.

From the threshold he surveys the inside of the cabin.

Something he sees inside prompts Rooster to quickly reenter the cabin. He reemerges, fist

closed on something.

He flings, and whatever he was holding lands faintly pit-a-pat in the woods.

RIDGE

Rooster finishes hunkering down.

He takes out his revolver and put a cartridge into the one empty chamber, under the

hammer. He places the revolver on a log and puts the sack of cartridges next to the

revolver. He leans his rifle against the log. He looks out.

His point-of-view of the cabin below, peaceful, smoke drifting from the chimney.

Rooster takes out a sack of corn dodgers and starts to eat.

Chewing beat.

He is suddenly alert, and raises a hand for quiet.

There is the sound of a rider, approaching slowly.

Rooster is puzzled:

Their high point-of-view: a mounted figure has entered the ravine.

He travels its length and stops his horse before the cabin and dismounts. We hear the

jingle of spurs.

Distant, calling toward the cabin:

LeBoeuf unholsters a gun. He walks to the cabin, opens the door and peers in.

Rooster starts to rise, about to call out, as LeBoeuf enters and closes the door.

We hear hoofbeats. Many horses.

Rooster is looking to the mouth of the ravine.

Mattie follows his look.

Their high point-of-view: four riders just entering the ravine.

They look back to the cabin.

From inside, faintly:

The door opens and LeBoeuf stumbles out, wide-eyed.

He sees the approaching riders. They see him.

They slow, approaching with caution.

LeBoeuf looks at them, glances back over his shoulder, looks forward again.

The riders stop several paces from LeBoeuf. They spread in a line facing him. Words are

exchanged; we cannot make them out.

LeBoeuf unholsters a gun and points it at the four men.

The four men, slouched astride their horses, are not impressed by LeBoeuf's gun. There is

more talking.

He refers to the mounted man who does most of the talking. Lucky Ned now speaks to the

men on either side and the two corners advance, closing a circle around LeBoeuf.

LeBoeuf looks warily from side side, swinging his gun to cover the group. None of the

riders bothers to unholster a gun.

The man to LeBoeuf's right lifts a rope off his saddle and casually twirls it.

The man to his left says something: LeBoeuf looks left and the man to his right drops the

rope around LeBoeuf and pulls it tight. LeBoeuf is jerked off his feet, gun dropping. The

mounted man backs his horse, taking the play from the rope. He dallies the free end round

his saddlehorn.

Two of the men slide off their horses.

One of them heads for the cabin door.

BANG!--the rifleshot, just at Mattie's ear, is deafening.

The man heading to the cabin drops, shot in the back.

The two horses that are now riderless rear and mill, panicked.

The horse towing LeBoeuf also skitters, spooked, as its rider looks wildly about and starts

shooting.

Lucky Ned looks toward our vantage point and also begins firing.

Rooster is methodically aiming and firing but in the commotion below his first couple of

shots don't tell. His third drops Lucky Ned's horse.

The other unmounted man is frantically trying to snatch up the reins of one of the loose

horses.

The man towing LeBoeuf spurs his horse toward one of the free horses, trying to grab it.

LeBoeuf is dragged past plunging horses' hooves.

A cacaphony of screaming horses, crackling gunfire from the basin, and the boom of

Rooster's rifle.

The unmounted man has managed to grab a halter. He climbs with difficulty aboard the

skittish horse.

The rider towing LeBoeuf cuts loose the towline. He gallops toward Ned Pepper with an

arm outstretched to help him aboard.

Rooster is tracking him with his rifle.

Lucky Ned grabs the extended arm. As he begins to swing up there is the BOOM of

Rooster's rifle. The rider pitches off the horse but Lucky Ned manages to stay on, and

swipes up the reins. He gallops off.

The one other surviving horseman follows him.

There is one dead horse in the basin, a live unmounted horse racing crazy circles, and three

still bodies. One is LeBoeuf's.

Rooster rises.

IN THE BASIN

LeBoeuf is moaning.

Rooster walks toward him trailed by Mattie, glancing along the way at the two dead men.

Something is wrong with LeBoeuf's speech. Bloody saliva bubbles copiously from his

mouth.

Rooster stoops to examine.

Rooster slaps lightly down at LeBoeuf's chin, signaling that he should open up.

LeBoeuf does, and Rooster digs in with two dirty fingers, dipping his head to peer in as he

pokes this way and that.

Bloody saliva bubbles out with the word. Rooster withdraws his fingers.

Mattie goes to inspect the two outlaws' corpses as Rooster pokes back LeBoeuf's shirt to

look at the wound.

SNOW

Falling straight down: a windless night.

We hear a murmuring male voice from inside the cabin.

Mattie is finishing rubbing down her horse.

She puts up the brush and pulls an apple from her apple bag.

The horse chomps up the apple and she rubs its muzzle as it chews.

The horse huffs and blows.

FRONT OF THE CABIN

We are raking the four dead men who have been carelessly propped against the outside

wall to sit in an irregular row. Mattie passes them, with a brief look, and opens the door,

and the murmuring voice from inside fans up louder.

INSIDE

As Mattie enters. We see LeBoeuf musing before the fire as he cleans his Sharp's carbine

--an awkward operation given the injury to his shoulder, now bandaged.

All we see of Rooster, seated further from the fire, is a pair of boots, and legs stretching

into darkness.

Mattie goes to the pot of food on the fire.

Rooster is a voice in the darkness:

We hear the pthoonk of a bottle yielding its cork, followed by the pthwa of the cork's

being spit out.

We hear liquid slosh as the bottle is tipped back.

We hear the smack of lips releasing bottleneck, and a wet breath.

Silence.

LeBoeuf shrugs.

MORNING

Wide: three riders leave the cabin single-file.

Jump in: pushing Mattie, who rides last in line. LeBoeuf is in front of her. Rooster leads,

head tipping momentarily back to swig from a bottle.

He then half-hums, half-scats a tune.

Mattie twists to look behind.

Her point-of-view: pulling away from the cabin, against the wall of which the four dead

men are now semi-drifted over with snow. Rooster's humming has stopped and we hear

his voice:

He launches into another song, interrupted by the slosh of liquid as he takes a drink.

Mattie looks forward again and LeBoeuf turns to look back at her. He keeps his voice low:

Still without looking back, Rooster projects:

He twists around to gaily hector LeBoeuf:

He reins his horse up, hastily tips the bottle to his mouth to make sure it is empty, and then

hurls it high.

He pulls out a navy six-gun and fires.

The bottle reaches the height of its arc untouched, and drops.

Rooster cocks his head at the landed bottle several paces distant. He shoots again and

misses.

He shoots a third time and the bottle shatters.

Rooster starts to dismount, finishing in a semi-controlled fall. He dusts one knee and

reaches into his saddlebag. He pulls out a corn dodger and heaves it up.

He fires. The corn dodger is obliterated.

He reaches two corn dodgers from the saddlebag.

He hurls them and quickly fires twice. Nothing happens; he quickly fires three times at the

falling corn dodgers, missing.

Scowling, he throws a single corn dodger and is just raising his gun when another gun goes

off, making him jump.

LeBoeuf has fired with a gun in his left hand, missing.

He reaches into the saddlebag and hurls it high. Both he and Leboeuf fire. It explodes.

He tosses a corn dodger and fires. It holds to its arc and falls. LeBoeuf is smug.

Rooster roars:

RIDING

Some time later.

Rooster sways in the saddle, holding a bottle, humming.

He tips his head up and tilts the bottle all the way back, confirming that this one too is now

empty.

Riding forward, he leans out of the saddle, stretching low to one side, his hand extended

with the bottle. Wavering, he places it upon a large rock as he passes.

His arm waves for balance as he straightens but he keeps his place on the horse. He half-

turns, propping himself with one hand on his saddle-back, to address Mattie and LeBoeuf:

SKY

Framed by a mine entrance.

Rooster steps into the square, wood-beam frame of the entrance, looking in.

A beat, and he pulls out his six-gun and fires in.

Echoing ricochets.

Wide outside: Rooster before the entrance; Mattie and LeBoeuf standing close by. Very

still.

The little camp is deserted.

Rooster turns to pan the hills.

At length:

Very faint echo.

Faintly, from our distant perspective:

CRACKLING CAMPFIRE

It is raining.

The campfire is roughly canopied by a hide draped at a cant over a pair of tree branches.

Mattie pours hot water from a kettle into a large tin cup holding a corn dodger. She takes a

fork and starts mashing the dodger into mush.

LeBoeuf sits before the fire, coat over his head, one hand on his jaw, which is swollen.

Rooster, bellicose, stumbles to the fire with a few thin branches. As he leans in toward the

fire the water draining off the low edge of the canopy drums onto his neck. He waves a

hand back at it like a man swatting flies.

Rooster sits heavily, a stretching leg kicking away an empty bottle. Rain patters on his hat.

He rises and starts gathering his things.

Rooster erupts:

He whips his robe over himself.

MINUTES LATER

Wide on Mattie, staggering toward us carrying a saddle. We boom down to bring Little

Blackie into the foreground as Mattie takes the last few stumbling steps forward, almost at

a run so as to let her inertia help her heave the saddle up onto the horse's back.

LeBoeuf, cinching a saddle onto his woolly horse, looks around.

He swings himself up onto the horse.

He does, dropping a hand gloved in rough suede. She refuses to take it.

He remains with hand extended. She hesitates, sees there is no give, and reaches for up for

the hand. They shake.

He saws the horse around and sets it to a prancing walk, his spurs jingling.

The sound recedes, leaving behind Rooster's snoring from the campfire.

CAMPFIRE

Rooster's snores bump up at the cut.

Mattie enters, gazes down for a thinking beat at the passed-out lawman, then lies down on

her robe.

She lies still, gazing up.

After a long beat she abruptly rises.

She recedes toward the horses. As she reaches them we hear Little Blackie snort and blow.

Mattie returns with a length of coiled rope. She plays it out in a loop around her robe. She

lies down again. She closes her eyes.

Fade out.

EARY MORNING

We are high and close on Rooster, asleep. Face mottled red, he looks like hell. He emits a

symphony of respiratory noises as breath fights through layers of phlegm.

Reverse on Mattie, looking down at him.

Wider on the forlorn campsite--Mattie standing, Rooster awkwardly sprawled sleeping,

LeBoeuf gone.

Close on a bucket: Mattie's hand enters to grab it.

EMBANKMENT

We hear rushing water.

Mattie descends, carefully stiff-legged, down a steep slope thick with trees and brush.

She emerges onto the bank of a fast-flowing stream, shallow at this point and loud.

Mattie takes a couple of steps into the water to dip the bucket. Soft, behind her, we see

four horses watering at the opposite bank, just downstream.

Mattie stoops to fill the bucket. Turning as she straightens, she sees the four horses.

Surprised, she drops the bucket and stares.

The horses huff and blow in the water. They are not wild--they wear tack--but there is no

rider in sight, until:

A man straightens and emerges from behind one of the horses. The first thing we notice

about him is the silhouette of the rifle projecting over one shoulder, slung to the man's

back with a piece of sash cord.

He looks at something floating by in the stream: Mattie's bucket. He looks up. We jump

closer:

The man has a black mark on his forehead.

Seeing Mattie, who still gapes at him, he hastily swings his rifle round and trains it on her.

He takes cautious, splashing steps forward.

He grins, relaxing. He slings the rifle back over his shoulder.

Mattie pulls the flour sack from her coat pocket and works carefully at the cord that

cinches it shut. Chaney watches.

Mattie has the cinch loose. She reaches the Colt's Dragoon out of the sack and points it at

Chaney.

Chaney looks at the gun. He grins and puts hands on hips.

Mattie gives a dismayed look at the gun and tries to pull the hammer back. It has a heavy

pull: she struggles, using two thumbs.

Chaney watches, smiling.

She pulls the hammer back further and we hear it notch. She looks up.

Mattie fires.

Chaney, shocked, takes a staggering step back.

Mattie stumbles and falls back under the recoil, into the stream but careful to hold the gun

high and dry. She awkwardly reclaims her footing and retrains the gun. Chaney is looking

down at his bleeding side.

She is struck by a worrying thought. She hastily recocks the gun.

Crashing from the brush up the hill, and a voice:

There is yelling from the other bank now too.

He sloshes suddenly forward, water kicking up before him.

She squeezes the trigger, but the gun dry fires.

Chaney grabs the gun and flings it away, then holds on to Mattie and slaps her.

Two men burst through the brush from Chaney's side of the river. One is in woolly chaps

--Lucky Ned Pepper. The other is taller and dressed almost formally in a linen suit and

string tie and a bear coat. Both men bear Winchester repeating rifles.

Chaney is dragging Mattie to their bank, slapping at her along the way.

Rooster emerges from his side of the riverbank carrying a side arm.

The men exchange fire.

He grabs Mattie from Chaney and keeps her between himself and the far bank as he fires

again.

One hand to his bleeding side, Chaney lunges for the horses' leads.

Rooster has retreated back to the tree cover, as has the well dressed man on our side.

Intermittent gunshots and the panicked neighing of horses. Lucky Ned falls back into the

trees with Mattie and starts pulling her up the steep hill.

Chaney follows pulling the string of horses. He is breathing hard and blood stains the front

of his shirt.

He twists Mattie around to face him and we see him clearly for the first time. Part of his

upper lip and three of his front teeth are missing.

Lucky Ned throws Mattie to the ground. He puts a muddy boot on her neck.

Mattie manages to choke out:

Silence.

A short beat, through which we hear only the rush of riverwater. Then, Rooster's voice

again:

He breaks open his rifle and starts to reload.

He pulls Mattie to her feet. Rooster's voice trails away:

Lucky Ned gives Mattie a rough push.

Mattie advances, Lucky Ned giving periodic shoves from behind.

A stout young man with a shotgun leaps out from behind a slab of limestone in front of

them. He has a round face and idiot eyes.

He makes loud turkey-gobbling noises at Mattie.

Though Mattie is startled Lucky Ned does not immediately react, but he does finally tire of

the turkey noises:

The idiot makes a pig-squealing sound in acknowledgment and then falls quiet, loping

alongside Mattie and Lucky Ned.

Lucky Ned is grim:

They are ascending out of the trees onto a bare rock ledge not quite at the crest of the

mountain. The rock floor is uneven and broken by fissures and holes. A cave-like setback

at the far end of the rock shelf is half-curtained with a hide. A rough camp.

A cookfire burns on the open rock. Two coffeepots warm leaning against the inside of the

fire's piled-stone perimeter. A skillet holds bacon.

A man squats at the fire, holding a piece of bacon, turned to watch Lucky Ned and Mattie's

approach. He wears a filthy Union army uniform with officer's boards. His mouth is an 0

of surprise.

Tom Chaney has reached the rock ledge and he charges Mattie with a yell.

Lucky Ned knocks him aside.

Chaney, squatting with his shirt pulled up for the ex-soldier to work on his wound, now

rises.

Chaney turns to Lucky Ned who has a spyglass to his eye, scanning a ridge across the

river.

Lucky Ned speaks quietly, without lowering the glass:

From somewhere in the woods below we hear the idiot's gobbling noises.

The voice of the well dressed man floats up from the woods:

Mattie looks at Chaney moaning in pain as the ex-soldier works on his side.

Lucky Ned replies absently, still gazing out:

He sees something and hastily raises the glass.

A horseman is ascending the treeless ridge across the river with a riderless horse--Little

Blackie--in tow. At the top he pauses and turns, and draws a revolver from his saddle and

points it skyward. We see the gun kick and breathe gunsmoke. A second later we hear the

shot.

Lucky Ned lowers the glass and takes a gun and shoots skyward. He raises the glass

again.

The horseman turns away and proceeds on over the crest. He is gone.

Lucky Ned turns to Mattie. He comes and squats at the fire.

The well dressed man and the idiot trudge up from the woods onto the rock ledge.

The man in the dirty uniform continues to perform crude field surgery on Chaney, digging

into his side with a knife to extract the bullet. As Chaney moans the idiot makes calf-

bawling noises in imitation.

Lucky Ned turns back to Mattie.

The idiot is still bawling. Chaney grabs a stone and flings it at him and the idiot scampers

back, making goat noises. Chaney grabs, moaning, at the wound aggravated by this fresh

exertion.

The man in officer's boards laughs.

Lucky Ned straightens from the fire and begins to collect his meager belongings. The

other men follow suit.

Chaney stares at Lucky Ned. His gaze then swings to the idiot.

The men, clanking with gear, cross the rock ledge and descend into the woods.

In the quiet, Chaney is disconsolate.

We faintly hear the rest of his party mount up and gallop off. Chaney drops heavily before

the fire to sit staring.

A silent beat.

Chaney continues to stare silently into the fire.

More brooding silence.

Chaney rises, glaring at her.

He is striding toward her. She backs toward the ledge.

Without breaking stride he plows into her, good hand raised to catch her by the throat.

She tumbles backward, Chaney on top of her sweating and snarling.

On her back Mattie struggles, but Chaney, straddling her, has her pinned. His good hand is

still on her throat. She claws at it.

He swats her with his free hand. Her clawing stops.

Chaney is wincing from the swing of his own arm. As he leans over her his opened wound

dribbles blood onto Mattie along with his sweat.

He reaches back awkwardly toward his calf with his bad hand, groaning with the stretch.

We hear the schlick of steel and his hand reappears holding a knife taken from a leg sheath.

He pushes against the underside of Mattie's chin, stretching her neck.

Her eyes roll down in their sockets to watch as Chaney regrips the knife and lowers it to

her throat, his knuckles whitening with tension.

Whack--a rifle stock swings into frame, connecting with Chaney's head. His head snaps

to one side and then lolls back as he slowly straightens, ropey drool and blood pouring

from his mouth. He sways briefly and then collapses onto Mattie.

A hand enters to pull him off. Mattie blearily props herself on her elbows.

LeBoeuf is panting and sweating from his climb. He gazes down at Chaney. Once he has

breath:

LeBoeuf's look breaks from Chaney. He pulls his pipe from his pocket and lights it.

He crosses the rock ledge.

He skirts the large hole and reaches the shelf's far lip and gazes out. Before him is a steep

drop-off. We see the very crowns of near pines and then, four hundred yards away, the

land flattening to an open meadow.

Mattie, also gazing out, comes up beside LeBoeuf.

LeBoeuf points with his pipe.

Lucky Ned, the Parmalees, and the Doctor are just entering the low meadow, riding away.

As they do so Rooster enters at the far side, facing. He draws one of his navy sixes as he

advances.

Leboeuf shrugs.

He and Mattie both watch as, below, the parties advance on each other at a walk. Eighty

yards separating them, they halt.

THE MEADOW

Rooster and Lucky Ned eye each other. After a beat:

Rooster nods.

A beat.

Ned Pepper laughs.

He puts the reins in his teeth, grabs his other revolver with the hand now free, and spurs his

horse.

ROCK LEDGE

Mattie watches him charge.

The facing four charge to meet him.

Over the distant laughter of the idiot, the crackle of gunfire commences.

THE MEADOW

Rooster turns his head to either side as he fires, bringing his good eye into play.

The idiot is gaily waving a revolver over his head, not firing, squawking like a chicken as

he charges.

A shot from Rooster kills him and swipes him neatly off his horse.

Farrel Parmalee has a shotgun. It roars.

Shot peppers Rooster. He returns fire.

Farrel Parmalee's horse is hit. It stumbles, and Farrel is dashed forward, snapping his

neck.

The Doctor Indian-rides past, sliding down and hooking an ankle on his saddle so that he

may ride in the cover of his horse's body. He makes for the treeline on the far side of the

meadow.

Rooster and Lucky Ned are charging each other, both firing.

They pass each other--both still mounted--but Rooster's horse has been hit and it falls,

pinning Rooster's leg. His guns are gone, lost in the fall.

Rooster, bleeding from sprayed shot in neck, face, and shoulder, struggles and unpins his

leg.

ROCK LEDGE

LeBoeuf sits cross-legged and brings the butt of his Sharp's carbine to rest against his

injured shoulder. He nudges the gunstock back and forth, looking for the anchor that will

cause him the least pain. He cocks his head to sight, puffing pipesmoke.

MEADOW

Lucky Ned is reining his horse around with his left hand. His right arm dangles. He walks

his horse toward Rooster, who is getting to his feet.

He drops the reins to reach out a gun with his one working arm.

ROCK LEDGE

LeBoeuf, sighting.

He squeezes the trigger.

He screams as the gun roars and bucks back into his shoulder.

THE MEADOW

Rooster is facing Lucky Ned.

Lucky Ned raises his gun at Rooster and--is shot in the chest.

As we hear the weakly distant guncrack Ned flops backward, slides halfway down one side

of the saddle, and dangles, briefly, foot tangled in a stirrup, horse standing unperturbed.

Then, he drops.

ROCK LEDGE

Mattie whoops as LeBoeuf groans.

LeBoeuf sets the rifle down and gropes at his shoulder.

A rock is brought down on his head by Tom Chaney.

Mattie screams.

LeBoeuf has collapsed and is motionless. Chaney drops the rock and stoops for the rifle.

Mattie is already dragging it away. She grabs it up.

Chaney stands nearly straight--as much as his injuries will allow, and--

Boom!--the blast catches Chaney in the chest and he is blown back off the ledge, looking

surprised. He falls to oblivion.

But the carbine recoil pushes Mattie stumbling back and this, with the bad footing at the lip

of the pit behind her, sends her falling.

PIT

Mattie is tumbling. She bounces down a very steep slope, disturbed earth tumbling with

her, protruding roots and slender upgrowing foliage slapping at her on her descent.

As she descends more or less feet-first something snags an ankle and her inertia sends her

upper body on down past the pinned leg. She jerks to a halt head-downmost on the steep

slope.

The patter of falling dirt subsides. Silence. Heavy breathing.

Mattie, lying face-up, does a painful half sit-up to look around.

Above her, her left foot is snarled through some roots. Well beyond, very high, weak light

defines the mouth of the pit.

Using her elbows she pivots, scooting her upper body uphill so that she is no longer below

her foot. She reaches the cuff of her pants on the trapped leg and pulls it up to expose the

shin.

A splinter of broken bone has punctured the skin.

She pulls the cuff back down.

She stretches to slip fingers between her boot and the roots in which it is fouled. She just

manages to work in two fingers; in wrenching around, the root has cinched tight. She tugs

feebly at the root, which shows no signs of give.

She looks back up.

The small hole of weak daylight, dust drifting up toward it.

No answer.

Arms tiring, she lays back again against earth. She looks around.

Partway round the pit, just at her level, something difficult to discern in the semi-dark: two

mirroring shapes, close to each other: is it the soles of a pair of boots?

Mattie squints. She props herself partway up.

Higher view: they are boots--worn by a corpse--stretching away from us, foreshortened.

The man's skull has been partly shattered by the protruding rock against which it rests.

Mattie surveys the body. Her attention is caught by something:

The skeletal remains are still clothed and there seems to be something held by a bandolier

strapped across the chest, over the body's decomposing blue shirt but beneath a tattered

vest. A sheath is just visible high on the strap, near the corpse's shoulder. The butt-end of

a knife juts out.

Mattie stretches, reaching.

She can just get to a boot.

She pulls.

The man's remains seem to be fairly light. They drag across earth, raising dust, tending to

slide away with the grade of the pit.

Mattie reels the body in, careful not to let go and lose it down the hill. She pulls shoe,

pants cuff, pants knee, belt. The bandolier is close.

Her fingers curl around shirt, and pull.

The shirt's buttons softly pop and fiber dust drifts up as the fabric falls to pieces. Rib cage

is exposed beneath.

Mattie hastily reaches and curls fingers around ribs. She pulls. She is about to get the

knife when--

A glistening something inside the rib cage--guts?--starts to slowly move. But it can't be

guts: it is gliding, coiling, under its own power.

A faint rattle.

Mattie screams as the ball of waking snakes quickens. One snake starts to slowly emerge,

and she bats the body away.

She pushes and kicks with her free leg, as much as her pinned attitude will allow. The

body, coming to pieces, slides dustily down into the dark. It disappears. Fiber and bone

dust float up toward us. We hear rattles.

Mattie hastily reaches for the root that pins her and in a panic pulls, looking back

toward the body. The root holds fast.

A snake is sluggishly and sinuously weaving up the earth toward her. She muscles her

body upward so that once again her pinned leg is bottom-most.

Another snake is behind the first. . . several more behind that.

As the snakes advance to the level of her pinned leg Mattie freezes. The first snake

continues climbing, weaving up the slope alongside Mattie's body. She watches it come

on, its blunted head with its flicking tongue inches from her face. The head passes, the

body goes coiling by.

Another snake undulates onto her pinned leg.

Careful to keep still, eyes on the advancing snakes:

More snakes climb onto her.

A large snake is winding onto her shoulder. She gingerly places a hand for it to coil onto;

it does; she holds it at arms length and gently shakes it off.

Rooster appears in the mouth of the pit. He has a rope wrapped round his waist and he

starts to descend, half walking, half hopping against the pit wall.

Mattie winces and looks down at one hand.

A small snake wrapped round her wrist has its fangs in the meat of the hand.

She flaps her hand and the snake plops off.

BAM!--a burst of orange as Rooster, descended to the level of the lead snakes, starts firing

his revolver.

BAM! BAM! More orange lightning flashes.

Lively rattling.

The pit fills with roiling gunsmoke.

Rooster starts to stomp as well as fire. He kicks the more sluggish specimens toward the

bottom of the pit.

He reaches Mattie and takes out a knife.

She shows her hand and he makes two slices in the flesh and squeezes out blood. As he

does so:

Rooster stoops with the knife and one slice frees the booted foot. He wraps one arm

around Mattie's waist and tips his head back and bellows:

The rope tautens and starts pulling, Rooster helping with his feet.

THE LEDGE

Little Blackie, led by a wobbly LeBoeuf, finishes pulling Rooster and Mattie from the pit.

Rooster is already unwrapping the rope from his waist and talking to LeBoeuf as he and

Mattie emerge:

Rooster heaves her up onto the back of Little Blackie, LeBoeuf helping though blood still

flows down one side of his face.

He swings up behind her and nods down to LeBoeuf.

Rooster reins the horse around and spurs it. LeBouef shouts after:

The horse takes to the steep slope reluctantly, with stiff legs, Rooster kicking it on. Tree

branches slap at him and take his hat. His face, already peppered with shot, gets new

scratches.

THE MEADOW

Mattie is woozy. As Little Blackie crosses the field at full gallop Mattie looks blearily at

the littering bodies of horses and men.

Next to Lucky Ned's body his horse, saddled and riderless, swings its head to watch as

Rooster and Mattie pass.

Mattie's eyes are closing.

LATE DAY

Mattie's eyes half-open.

Little Blackie plunges on, through a rough road in woods, but slower now, his mouth

foaming.

Horrible noises are indeed coming from the horse, but Rooster is grim:

He leaves off whipping the horse and takes out his knife. He leans back and slashes at the

horse's whithers. Little Blackie surges.

Mattie screams.

A locked-down shot as horse and riders enter at a gallop and recede.

NIGHT

It has started to snow.

Mattie is flushed and soaked with sweat.

The horse is laboring for breath.

Rooster gives inarticulate curses as he kicks it on.

Mattie looks ahead:

Barely visible in the moonlight a man mounted bareback rides on ahead. A sash cord

holds a rifle to his back.

He recedes, outpacing us, disappearing into the darkness and the falling snow.

Mattie is falling. It is unclear why.

Her legs squeeze the horses flanks.

Her hand tightens on the horses mane.

Rooster's arm reaches around to hold her.

Little Blackie is giving out, going to his knees and then all the way down.

Rooster hangs on to Mattie as the horse sinks. He pulls her clear, lays her on the ground,

and then steps away from her, taking out a gun.

The horrible noises coming from the horse end with a gunshot. Rooster reenters to pick up

Mattie but she screams at him and claws at his face, opening fresh gashes.

He ducks his head as best he can to avoid the claws but that is the extent of his reaction.

He presents his back and she relents, clasping her arms. He rises with a pained wheeze and

he starts jogging with Mattie piggie-back.

Bouncing at his shoulder, she twists to look back.

In the dark, the darker shape of the dead horse, growing smaller.

Mattie turns forward again, eyes drooping.

LATER

Rooster is loudly wheezing as he carries Mattie before him now, his jog slowed to an

unsteady walk. Her eyes are opening again.

They are now on a proper dirt road. Rooster staggers around a turn and does a barely

controlled stumble to his knees, and then sits heavily back, Mattie in his lap.

Up ahead is the front porch of Bagby's store, the building dark.

Rooster sits gasping.

Mattie's voice is thick:

Rooster takes out his gun, weakly raises his arm, and fires into the air. He sits panting.

The door of the distant store opens and someone emerges, holding a lamp, peering out into

the dark.

FADE OUT

TRAIN

We are looking into the window of a moving train. Looking out past us is a thin forty-

year-old woman.

Reflected in the window is a sizable railyard and then, as the train slows, a station.

Reading backward in the mirror of the window is the station stop: MEMPHIS.

We hear the voice, familiar from the opening of the movie, of the grown Mattie Ross:

TRAIN DOOR

As the train eases to a stop the woman, Mattie, steps down. One sleeve of her dress is

pinned up.

Mattie goes along the platform, holding a small bag in one hand and, crushed against its

handle, a flier.

In the scene, Mattie calls peremptorily to a young boy on the platform:

She shows him the flier:

The boy looks up and points.

Mattie crosses the platform and further along, descends to the railyard.

The cars of the Wild West Show are parked along a siding. They display gaudily painted

scenes of men on rearing horses firing six-guns, of conestoga wagons, war-bonneted

Indians, bandana-wearing bad men. Three featured performers have their own vignetted

scenes, each depicted as a youngish man engaged in Wild West hell-raising, each with his

name painted beneath: Cole Younger, Frank James, and (unrecognizable but for the

eyepatch) Rooster Cogburn. Below Rooster's name is the sublegend "He rode with

Quantrill! He rode for Parker!"

Around the rail cars cowboys--and some Indians--mill, more wobegone than their painted

representations.

Mattie asks someone along the way for directions and is pointed toward the rear of the

train.

Mattie speaks to two men who sit on the rear platform of the rear car. They are old men

drinking Coca-Colas. One doffs his hat and rises when Mattie addresses the pair; the other

stays seated, slurping from his bottle.

As she turns to go she addresses Frank James, who has been staring at her:

A BOXCAR

Elsewhere; later.

Men load in a muddy pine coffin. Chalked on the coffin top:

The boxcar door is slammed and the train starts to move off.

CEMETERY

Mattie stands with a prayer book. There is a light, lazy fall of snow.

She leaves, striding purposefully past the headstone.

We show the headstone and, beyond, her receding figure.

Her figure softens as it recedes.

