1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  2.

SUPERIMPOSE:    ROOSEVELT WHITNEY HIGH SCHOOL -

The Assistant Principal, attention diverted, doesn't even

notice Trevor as he enters on his bike and races down the

sidewalk in front of the school. With all the prompting,

students still don't seem to be in much of a hurry.

... as Trevor squeezes through the doorway past students

being processed through card readers and metal detectors

and turns down the main hall.

With a glance over his shoulder, Trevor hops back onto

his bike and pedals it down the middle of the corridor.

STRAGGLING STUDENTS either ignore him or look at him

like he's insane.

As Trevor reaches the end of the main corridor... and

steers his bike down the stairs.

Trevor coasts skillfully down the stairs and emerges

onto the bottom floor of the school. He pedals away

toward the other end of the corridor.

A crowd of 10th graders loiter outside Trevor's room.

Seeing him coming, they stir to life with a flurry of

taunts. Trevor chooses to face all dissension with a

smile.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                               3.

As Trevor hops off his bike and unlocks the classroom

door, he notices two lovers making out in the hallway...

TWO STUDENTS make passing comments...

Trevor offers a pleasant greeting to the two lovers.

Trevor enters the room, but ducks his head back into

the hall.

Walls are covered with assorted science posters.

Styrofoam nuclei dangle from the ceiling. Trevor

unstraps the fat briefcase from his bicycle and sets

it on a metal stool next to his desk...

A PUERTO RICAN WOMAN prods a group of gangbanger wanna-

bes. Two of the teens hover over a Sony Walkman, sharing

the earphones.

A 10th grade counselor's office opens and a student

emerges. Trevor walks directly in.

WALTER (Anglo; 52) is a disheveled middle-aged counselor.

A lifer. He chews on an empty smoking pipe as he glances

through a student "cum" (cue-mm).

Trevor sets the book down on Walter's desk and nervously

adjusts his glasses.

Walter opens the book.

Walter snaps the book shut and looks up at Trevor.

That's all?

Trevor exhales a sigh of resignation.

Walter's caught between a rock and a hard place.   His

instincts lean toward self-preservation.

Trevor resigns himself to the fact that he's come to

the wrong person for support.

Trevor's bemusement holds us.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                              10.

Trevor retraces his steps back up the empty corridor as

the passing BELL RINGS. Within seconds the corridor is

teeming with teenagers.

Into SLOW MOTION now. MANEUVERING THROUGH the crowd to

DISCOVER DENNIS BROADWAY (16). About ten paces behind.

His Snoop-Dogg Afro frames a gold earring and a pair of

deep-set eyes filled with vitriol. Oblivious of Dennis,

Trevor presses on toward the north stairwell.

VARIOUS SHOTS OVERHEAD and THROUGH crowd as the gap

between Dennis and Trevor narrows. Every facial

expression, every blink of an eye, all magnified a

hundred times.

Broadway's right hand is wrapped in a dirty white

handkerchief as he reaches into the front pocket of his

baggie Solos and pulls out a block of wood with a

ten-penny nail imbedded in it.

Trevor's heavy eyelids blink as he slowly glances up into

a parabolic mirror on the wall. A silent, paroxysmal

terror registers on his face.

In a parabolic mirror, the blurred image of Dennis

Broadway, pushing hard toward a conclusion now.

BACK TO SPEED as Dennis explodes forward, body blocking

Trevor from behind, pinning him against a wall and

sending the "187" textbook flying.

He rams his weapon into Trevor's back.

In a SERIES OF RAPID-FIRE CUTS, filtered sunlight

shimmers off the sharpened nail as it slashes downward.

A barrage of stabbing motions, tearing at cloth and

flesh. Trevor's backward flailing arms are ineffective

in blocking the frenzied stabfest. Downward slashing,

again and again... 10 times.

Aftermath. As quickly as it began it's over. Dennis

Broadway slams open an exit door and is gone. Students

scatter like cockroaches. An eerie stillness lingers.

Trevor Garfield is lying on his back now in a pool of

blood; black plastic framed glasses in pieces on the

floor; lifeless arms spread out at his sides.   His

rheumy, unblinking eyes stare upward into infinite space.

Breathing is the major focus of his concentration now as

we SLOWLY MOVE IN ON his face. HOLD and now...

SUPERIMPOSE: LOS ANGELES - SAN FERNANDO VALLEY,

SEVENTEEN MONTHS LATER

It's a tiny one bedroom house in the East San Fernando

Valley. A chain-link fence surrounds the perimeter and a

large olive tree shades the neatly-mowed front lawn.

And in the back there's a wooden tool shed that borders

a narrow alley.

In the predawn light a terra cotta angel stands guard

over a bookshelf.

Stillness. Now the PHONE RINGS. A shape in the bed

stirs. A desk lamp flickers on, illuminating the phone.

Trevor's hand reaches for the receiver.

We hear what God hears over the following...

A)   IN SHOWER

B)   TREVOR

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                 13.

MINUTES LATER

Trevor, fat briefcase in hand, crosses the front lawn.

He's not the same Trevor we met back in Bedford-

Stuvyesant. Withdrawn, guarded, he manufactures a

cautious smile at students in passing.

Trevor now approaches VICTOR SIFUENTES, a young plain-

clothes narc, who intermittently wands students with a

metal detector at the front doors. FAVOR a kid now who

wears a baseball cap with an emblem on the crown that

says "Fucd."

The kid grudgingly reciprocates, handing over his cap.

Trevor produces his blue employee card.

BEFORE FIRST PERIOD

Trevor wanders up the crowded corridor. Along with his

briefcase he now carries a sub folder that contains a

homeroom roster, lesson plans and seating charts.

A sporadic row of teachers, like weary sentinels, stand

outside their classrooms.

TEACHER #1 is an insipid woman in her mid-forties.   She's

overweight and wears too much make-up.

Her comment weighs on him as he resumes his winding path

through the bustle of students headed for first period.

TREVOR'S POV

Glancing through open doorways. Observing the inner life

of various classrooms in passing... sees students watch-

ing TV, teacher ignores them.

INTERCUT WITH:

ANGLO MALE, 39, slouching behind his desk, attempting to

read a newspaper but distracted by an offstage commotion.

INTERCUT WITH:

On the opposite side of the corridor... we can hear

Ellen Henry's voice before reaching her doorway. All

brightness and light, full of enthusiasm...

Now we see her through the doorway. ELLEN HENRY (TEACHER

#3). She's thirty, Anglo, and non-tenured. At the front

of the class ten students stand linked together, arm-in-

arm, in a human chain. WILLIAM (15) sits behind a computer

in the front row struggling to decipher the problem...

William remains puzzled. The chain of students delight

in chiding him. "C'mon, Beavis!"...

Ellen attempts to bisect the impulsive chain of students

with a double-handed karate chop. Fickle chain that they

are, they resist.

Now a SLOW MOTION fleeting moment as she catches Trevor's

passing gaze and openly smiles at him.

Trevor rinses his face at the sink as Victor Sifuentes'

head speaks to him from above one of the heavily

graffitied stalls in b.g.

On a MEANDERING COURSE, MERGING with Trevor now.

Increasing evidence of tagging, and bands of wandering

students, indicate a higher degree of disorder the

further one gets from the Main Office.

FROM ABOVE NOW, like Algernon and his maze, Trevor

negotiates his own path deeper and deeper into the

configuration of bungalows.

... And Trevor's trepidation. Eyes discerning every

passerby. His PULSE AUDIBLY RACES, senses heightened.

SHIFTING INTO SLOW MOTION AGAIN... And the reverberating

SOUND of a SPRAY PAINT MARBLE as Trevor rounds a corner

and comes face to face with three tag-bangers concealing

spray paint cans inside their oversized jackets. One of

the taggers locks eyes with Trevor as he passes, a slow

premonitory burn. The tagger has a "skin tight" (pelon)

hair cut and a string of black rosary beads around his

neck. A barcode tattoo on the back of his neck identi-

fies BENNY.

... Behind the bungalows, adjacent the delivery gate.

Meet DAVE CHILDRESS, a forty-something ditto-head.

The residual effects of a hangover linger as he sneaks a

cigarette before first period. He wears a faded Hawaiian

shirt and Huarache sandals. An old military tattoo

emblazons his left forearm. As he crushes out his

cigarette, something catches his eye.

... Thru a chain-link fence we see a handful of cholo-

types loitering around the shed.

Childress investigates.    As he approaches the fence...

Homeboys scatter in all directions, some hop the chain-

link fence, others scurry out a narrow gate behind the

shed. Childress weighs an amused smirk. Now out of

nowhere a gangbanger lurches from the shed, buttoning

his sagging Dickies and tripping over his own feet. He

scrambles out the back gate and is gone.

Childress, curiosity piqued, now enters the compound

through a tear in the fence.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                 17.

As Childress pokes his head inside he discovers...

Rita Nartinez, seventeen... braless. A niobium belly-

ring piercing her navel. She pulls a dark blue sweat

shirt on over her head. Glances up at Childress. Masks

her shame with a defiant smirk.

(Behind the heavy eyeliner and baggy pants of a chola,

Rita's really nothing more than a little lost girl.)

Trevor flicks on the lights, exposing bare, colorless

walls and closed venetian blinds. His breathing's

slightly labored as he sets down his briefcase. His back

faces the mob of students that trickle in now as he takes

a surreptitious hit off an inhaler. Almost instantly his

breathing returns to normal.

Now he shuts his eyes and prepares to conjure up the

dormant enthusiasm he used to have. Takes a deep

cathartic breath. Now he digs a file folder out of his

briefcase, opens it, selects a dispatch and approaches

the blackboard.

BELL RINGS as he picks up a piece of chalk... and begins.

First he writes his name in the corner of the blackboard.

Now he moves to the center of the blackboard and begins

to write per the file folder in his hand...

"GLIS WAS VERY FRAPPER.    SHE HAD DENARPEN FARFIE'S

MARDSEN..."

No one pays much attention.    Back still facing the

class...

Now one or two students begin to notice the

indecipherable gibberish he is writing on the board...

Trevor mentally blocks out the salvo of grunts, groans

and expletives. With each subsequent stroke of the chalk

he is exorcising his demons...

Turning to face the class now...

A handful of students take their seats.

... a grudging buzz of confusion.

Barsek (the class clown) breaks in...

Trevor quiets a harmless barrage of, "Bart," "sit down"

and "Armenian Power sucks"...

A wisp of gratification flickers at the corner of

Trevor's mouth.

(The following is read in fits and starts and accompanied

by diminishing laughter and ridicule.)

... A unanimous "No." Trevor can see the light at the

end of the tunnel now. He's back in the zone.

Trevor writes question #1 on the board...

The Asian Girl, into it now, tentatively raises her hand.

Asian Girl's POV as she studies the first two sentences

on the board.

Trevor reads and writes question #2 on the board...

Before Trevor can finish writing the question, an

unidentified voice blurts out, "He plimped a Ho."

Scattered laughter. Trevor grimaces, shakes his head.

Now attempts to add the question mark at the end of the

sentence but the chalk breaks, causing dissension.

Trevor hastily rifles through the teacher's drawers.     A

startling discovery abruptly halts his search...

CLOSER now INTO a brown paper bag Trevor has opened.

Inside the bag is a .357 Magnum.

OFF Trevor's narrowing gaze, an offstage voice

interrupts...

Trevor lifts his head to see Dave Childress standing in

the doorway of the bungalow. Trevor shuts the desk

drawer. You can hear a pin drop.

Childress piston-chews a wad of gum as he approaches

Trevor.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                               21.

Childress weighs a shit-eating grin as he glances at

Trevor's name on the board.

Some students brave a laugh at Trevor's expense.

Childress now places a patronizing hand on Trevor's

shoulder and steers him toward the window blinds.

Childress draws the blinds on one of the windows exposing

another bungalow across the way.

... In complete disarray. Students clutter the doorway

as wads of paper intermittently zing past them.

OFF Trevor's unflinching stare...

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  22.

The bungalow was originally designed for lab science:

glass-encased cupboards, a caged white lab rat on a side

counter, an 8' by 3' counter top (island) at the front of

the room, including a built-in sink and butane gas valve.

Students crowd the opened windows on the far side of the

room. The chaotic atmosphere centers around one

student... Benny Chacon (18), the tagger we met earlier.

Trevor's back to square one. He struggles with

trepidation as he steps into the doorway of the bungalow

and hesitates.

A young black girl, LAKESIA STEWART (16), stands near the

doorway. She cradles a realistic looking E.N.A.B.L. baby

(Education Now And Babies Later).

Trevor takes a peek at the doll.

Crowd at the windows begins to disperse now, finding

their seats, except for Benny who doesn't budge. Trevor

approaches, gazes out the window, eyes sizing up the

situation.

Scattered on the blacktop between the parking lot fence

and bungalow #86 are 35 science textbooks.

Benny plays with the black rosary around his neck.

Responds with mock ignorance.

Class erupts with laughter.      A wad of paper sails past

Trevor and out the window.

Benny now finds a seat.      Trevor follows him.

Class laughs. Trevor refers to the seating chart (inside

the sub folder) in his hand but Benny's not sitting in

his proper seat. Benny indicates a 2" by 3" monitoring

device strapped to his ankle...

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  24.

Suddenly three students across from Benny (the other

three taggers we saw earlier, Cesar Sanchez, Stevie

Littleton and Paco) stand with bold impunity. All are

17. Cesar has a buzz-cut, Stevie's an Anglo speed freak

with a runny nose and a bleached one-clip haircut (roots

showing) and Paco, a Latino.

Cesar, Stevie and Paco ignore Trevor and walk out of the

bungalow. Their departure is accompanied by a tumultuous

outburst of catcalls and whistles.

Benny turns his wrath on Trevor now.

Scattered laughter. Trevor closes the sub folder and

just looks at Benny.

Trevor just stands there, studies Benny.       A palpable

beat.

There is dead silence as Benny stares Trevor straight in

the eye. Trevor stares right back.

Trevor turns and calmly walks back to the island counter,

searches and finds a referral slip in one of the drawers,

fills it out...

Benny has a smirk on his face as he sashays past Trevor

with the referral slip.

Benny, a self-aggrandized exit, crumbles the referral

slip and tosses it at Trevor, hitting him square in the

back.

Like a reflex, Trevor whirls and ducks.        Students laugh

at his heightened reaction.

Trevor shakes his head as Ellen Henry takes the empty

seat at the end of the table, smiles at Trevor.

As they shake right in front of Childress' face he can't

help noticing the mean scar on the back of Trevor's hand.

There's something familiar about this sub.

Childress looks from Trevor silently stirring his soup

down to the scar again... and now it hits him.

Ellen blanches.

Inexplicably, she gets up and leaves. As Trevor watches

Ellen go, Childress slides closer to him.

Trevor slides a look back to Dave as he eats his soup.

The windows and blinds are shut now.

is inching toward the top of the hour.

Closing their books and loading their knapsacks, the

students talk and pay more attention to the inexorable

march of time than to Trevor writing on an overhead

projector.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                   30.

Rita Nartinez (the chola from the "utility" shed) sits

near the front of the class. She wears her usual heavy

eyeliner and a new nose ring.

Class erupts. Rita enjoys the attention.        Trevor turns

and looks at her squarely.

Trevor doesn't expect anything remotely close to the

right answer.

A beat.   Trevor looks up at her.

Trevor notices Cesar Sanchez writing on his desk.      Stevie

cranes his neck to observe. Paco snoozes.

Cesar throws back his head and jerks both hands from his

desk top. Trevor walks up the aisle.

Trevor looks down at the tagging on Cesar's desktop. In

one corner are the letters K-O-S, and below that the word

"cartoon."

Cesar shrugs with a big grin.

Trevor dismisses Cesar's comments.

Stevie wears a fusion T-shirt emblazoned with a giant

spray can.

Neither of them budge. Momentous deliberation. Now the

BELL RINGS and the classroom empties in a matter of

seconds. Cesar stares daggers at Trevor as he exits.

Rita hangs back, the last one to leave.      She doesn't want

anyone to see her talking to Trevor.

Rita flickers an awkward smile, turns and exits. The

class empties and Trevor is left staring at the empty desks

where Benny and Cesar sat... WHACK -- Trevor's reverie is

broken by a BASKETBALL smashing against the side of the

bungalow.

POV - OUT THE WINDOW

A group of boys grin mischieviously at the reaction they

get from Trevor... continue smashing the ball against

bungalows.

TREVOR

shifts his gaze from them to the venetian blinds framing

the window... to the clock over his desk.

(AFTER SCHOOL)

as they open -- revealing the clock -- and just as

suddenly close. TILT DOWN to find Trevor working the

cords to the blinds he's rigged over the timeplace.

A FAINT KNOCK breaks his spell as he glances up to

discover Ellen Henry standing in the open doorway.

He sees her looking quizzically at the blinds he's rigged

over the clock.

Impressed, Ellen peruses the room now with a benign gaze.

Ellen flickers a grin, point taken.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  34.

WHACK -- the noise pulls Ellen's attention out the

window where the boys play a rough game of BASKETBALL.

Trevor is trying to put some books on an upper shelf,

but he's having trouble raising his arm high enough.

Ellen sees he's in pain.

She watches him struggle, then breaks the awkwardness.

WHACK... WHACK... Outside, the kids continue to play.

The late sun makes their violent shadows swarm over Ellen.

Trevor glances up.    Here's what she really wants to

know...

A beat.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                    36.

Tears involuntarily well up in Ellen's eyes.     HOLD for

an awkward moment as she collects herself.

The shadows of the basketball players rage inside the

bungalow.

OFF Trevor's severe gaze...

... Trace the cold underbelly of the overpass. The glare

of oncoming headlights flash overhead as we DISCOVER a

tagging wall.

CLOSER now...

... The wall is completely covered with graffiti. The

centerpiece of the wall is a 5' by 10' multi-color

"placa" that reads...

ANGLING TO DISCOVER an Anglo tagger now as he defaces

the "S" in K-O-S, covering it with his own piece.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/11/96                                     37.

Suddenly the lone tagger feels a presence at his back.

He freezes. Now slowly turns to see...

... Benny, Cesar and Paco.

Merely shadows. Benny lights a blunt, illuminating his

face. Passes it to Cesar...

Cesar and Paco burst into hysterical laughter which

only manages to get Benny piqued.

Cesar and Paco laugh harder.

He pulls a .380 or a .25 automatic out of his pocket.

Brandishes it at Cesar and Paco...

A BEEPER hooked on Benny's pants pocket BEEPS. Benny

shuts it off. The Tagger sees his opportunity and makes

a break for it. Without a second thought, Benny SHOOTS

him in the leg. Tagger crumbles to the ground. Benny's

really pissed now. Checks his beeper's glow-in-the-dark

face for the message.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/11/96                                38.

Cesar and Paco attempt to subdue their laughter but

fail...

Benny lifts a pant leg.    Indicates his ankle monitor with

the barrel of his gun.

Venting rage, Benny walks up the wounded Tagger and

STARTS SHOOTING (one hand high near his face, shooting

downward). Now he kisses the crucifix on his rosary like

a sick, distorted affectation.

Cesar and Paco laugh even harder now, falling all

over each other. Benny storms off. He marches past a

street lamp and is swallowed up by the night.

SUBJECT CAMERA FOLLOWING Benny. Oblivious that he's

being followed, Benny walks at a steady pace. As we

continue gaining ground on him, a SOUND UPCUT of

TREVOR CALLING ROLL transports us to...

(FIRST PERIOD)

Amid unresponsive cross talk:

Trevor gazes opaquely at Benny's empty seat.

An eight-year-old Hispanic kid pulls a red Flexi-Flyer

wagon (laden with pop bottles and aluminum cans) across

weeds and cracked earth.

He suddenly stops and stares at something in the weeds.

Snatches it up, studies it, and tosses it with everything

else.

SLOWLY MOVING IN ON the wagon now...

... thru a thin shroud of dust as it bangs and bumps

along.

Even CLOSER now on the last retrieved article... It's

Benny's ankle monitor.

DAY (FIFTH PERIOD)

Trevor emerges from Assistant Principal Ford's office and

walks up the empty corridor, without breaking stride.

Trevor retraces his steps back to the door of Ellen's

plant-filled, personalized computer lab. Over the

CLACKING of COMPUTER KEYS...

Trevor flickers a conciliatory nod, now he averts his

eyes.

Now an EGG TIMER RINGS O.S. on Ellen's desk.      Back into

the classroom...

Realizing now that all the CLACKING COMPUTER KEYS have

stopped moments ago. All eyes are fixed on Ellen and

Trevor.

... Big knowing grins all around.

Balmy and still.

ON bug zapper above garage, a churning, SLOW MOTION

swarm of bugs repeatedly throw themselves headlong into

the light.

MUSIC plays faintly on the STEREO. Numerous artifacts

occupy the bookshelves. A primitive AFRICAN MASAI BOW

(with two arrows) is mounted on a wall.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  41.

Trevor, tie loosened. Ellen, in nylon stocking feet,

leaning back against a couch. On the coffee table before

them are dirty dishes and half-full wine glasses.

Trevor's lost in a thin introspective smile.

Trevor considers the question.

They both laugh.

A beat.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                 42.

He offers a smile.        Ellen returns it.

Kindred souls.      Ellen fills her glass.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                   43.

A beat. Then Ellen gets up, wine glass balanced in her

left hand.

Ellen spins the tuner on the STEREO to a LATIN STATION

and practically yanks Trevor to his feet.

Trevor grimaces, awkwardly relinquishes, as Ellen walks

him through it.

Trevor concentrates. Up to speed now. Technically he's

got it, he just needs to loosen up. Ellen suppresses a

gleeful snicker. Now, Trevor attempts to cut loose.

He spins Ellen once, into a tango step, one-two-three.

Now an awkward dip, causing her glass to spill wine down

the back of his shirt...

He dashes toward the hallway bathroom.

In a flurry, Ellen rushes into the kitchen. Flips on the

kitchen light, jerks open the refrigerator and locates

the baking soda.

FOLLOWING now, as she MOVES STEADILY FROM the kitchen TO

the hallway bathroom...

as Ellen steps into the doorway and lets out a startled

gasp, dropping the box of baking soda.

Trevor is bent over, scrubbing his shirt in the sink.

His bare back and shoulders are scattered with brutal

knife scars.

A tract house in the central San Fernando Valley.

Trevor's Rambler is parked at the curb. The house is dark

except for a porch light.

Trevor and Ellen are greeted by Ellen's golden retriever

Jack, who's chained to the front porch. JACK WHIMPERS,

ready to bark.

Jack nuzzles up to Trevor, tail wagging furiously, no

barking. Now Trevor stands and faces Ellen...

Awkward silence. Trevor struggles with the urge to kiss

her good night. They look at each other timidly for a

moment. Now he moves to kiss her and she inadvertently

adjusts her stance. The result is a kiss that doesn't

quite hit her mouth. It's an awkward moment. Ellen

feels horrible for him, desperately picks up a strange

little plant by her feet.

Trevor takes it, smiles "thanks"...

Cesar, with sunglasses and typical disregard, holds court

in the back of the room. He and Stevie are high.

Trevor eyes them, finds what he was looking for in the

book...

Glances over at Rita now.    Checks the wall clock.

Bringing the cage over...

Stevie and Paco love it.

Surprisingly, Cesar does what he's told as Trevor removes

an old pocket watch from his briefcase and sets it next

to Snowball's cage...

Cesar removes his dark glasses.       His eyes are bloodshot

and vapid.

Disregarding Cesar, Trevor opens a drawer and removes two

latex surgical gloves from a cardboard box. He puts on

the gloves and selects a petri dish from another drawer.

She does. Trevor now removes a small amber bottle

(with an eye-dropper top) from his briefcase. The

class starts to settle down now as Trevor pre-measures

water in a pipette and adds it to the petri dish.

Rita places her book on Cesar's desk.

Jeers from the class, "Come on, read".       "Hurry up,

Cesar."

Rita points to the passage in the book.        Cesar slaps her

hand.

Rita knits her eyebrows at Trevor.        Cesar laughs.

Class erupts.

At first Cesar doesn't budge.         Now grudgingly he looks

down at the book...

Cesar heaves the book across the room: Class erupts,

"Refer 'im," "Send 'im tuh Hyland." Trevor walks over

and picks up the book. Class now settles. Watches

Trevor closely to see what he's going to do. Trevor

gazes at Cesar...

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                   50.

Cesar knits his eyebrows, puzzled. Now Trevor walks over

and sets the textbook down in front of Rita...

Resume the lesson now.     Trevor indicates the amber bottle...

Cesar grudgingly watches as Trevor places a measured drop

of the liquid demeral into the petri dish and stirs the

solution.

Using the pipette, Trevor administers two drops of the

demeral and water solution to the sugar cube, which he

has placed inside Snowball's cage. As Snowball eats the

sugar cube...

Having eaten most of the sugar cube, Snowball is rendered

unconscious.

Trevor peers at his pocket watch.

The hour and minute hands read 2:40.    HOLD as we...

Trevor's pocket watch now reads 2:50...

Snowball isn't moving. HOLD for an uncomfortably long

moment ON the class, clustered around Trevor's desk.

The class, for once, is completely silent. Beads of

perspiration form on Trevor's upper lip as he

resolutely watches the sleeping rat.

Now Snowball begins to stir and the class reacts with

scattered applause. A thin smile flickers across

Trevor's face. As the BELL RINGS....

As students head for the doors, he pulls off his latex

gloves and looks for his pocket watch... but it's gone.

Cesar and Stevie are almost out the door.

Cesar heads out the door.

Trevor locks bungalow #86, picks up his briefcase, and

along with the rest of the foot traffic, heads in the

direction of the "A" building.

As Trevor rounds a corner and runs smack into Ellen on

the opposite side of a chain link fence.

Trevor keeps moving.

Trevor's tongue-tied. Now he removes the Proventil

inhaler from his pocket, take an innocuous hit.

Trevor nods, sustains an awkward smile.

A struggle, fighting against his true feelings...

Trevor stares into her eyes, a soulful, searching gaze.

Now he averts a self-conscious look.

Trevor just looks at her.    Nods, somewhat bewildered.

Victor Sifuentes approaches now.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  54.

As their paths converge and they stop, face to face...

OFF Trevor's puzzled look...

A wall air conditioner...

blows on Stevie and Cesar's sweaty backs. Trevor enters,

shirt equally drenched in sweat. The dead silence is

like that of a courtroom. MR. GARCIA, late forties,

drawn, sits behind his desk...

MR. HYLAND, stands in the outer office behind a glass

partition, head lowered. Hyland flashes Trevor a

defeated smile as we...

Trevor coolly deciphers the situation.

Garcia reaches down, switches on a portable tape recorder.

Trevor weighs the situation.    Nods.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                   55.

With fervor now, Cesar turns his pockets inside out,

emptying the contents (house keys and two dollars in

change) onto Garcia's desk.

Stevie empties his pockets now. Nothing but a twenty

dollar bill and an empty pack of Marlboros.

Trevor just stares at him.

Garcia hesitates, now looks to Cesar and Stevie...

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  56.

The boys collect their belongings off Garcia's desk and

shoot looks at Trevor as they exit. Now Garcia turns

back to Trevor...

OFF Trevor's defeated gaze...

As Trevor and Hyland emerge from Garcia's office and walk

steadily up the empty corridor...

Trevor doesn't respond, lost in thought.

Trevor slides him a glance. They stop in front of

Hyland's office door. He unlocks the door with a key...

PHONE RINGS as they enter...

Trevor weighs it as Hyland picks up the phone...

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                   58.

Signals Trevor to take a seat.

INTERCUT Trevor as his eyes idly fix on an index card

box (on Hyland's desk) labeled, "LOCKER COMBINATIONS."

Hyland hangs up.

Trevor shifts his gaze back to Hyland.

Hyland rushes out and Trevor glances back at the index

box. Momentous deliberation. Now he reaches over and

carefully opens the small tin box. Methodically now, he

flips through the file cards until he finds Cesar

Sanchez's locker combination. Trevor's eyes scanning

the information on the locker combination card. LOCKER

#204. Combination sequence...08-24-53.

Trevor's Rambler, with Ellen in the passenger seat, stops

at a large intersection.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                              59.

As Trevor gets distracted by something he sees...

At a right angle to Lankershim, down Magnolia Blvd., Rita

Nartinez sits alone on a bus stop bench.

As Ellen continues talking we see a lowered blue Nissan

mini-truck (with matching shell) pull up next to the bus

stop. A cholo from the utility shed hangs out the

passenger window and taunts Rita. Rita immediately

stands and walks back down Magnolia.

The mini-truck follows her in reverse. Rita halts and

begins ranting at the cholo, waving her arms all around.

Now she stomps away and the mini-truck drives away with a

lurch.

INTERCUT Trevor's distracted gaze.

Trevor's conference period. He stands atop a ladder in

the front of the room, drilling holes in the wall for a

jerry-rigged camera mount. As he climbs down, Rita

enters. Paces back and forth, wringing a clenched spiral

notebook, English Comp. essay tucked inside...

A POLAROID PHOTO drops out of her notebook.     Trevor

reaches down and scoops it up.

INSERT - POLAROID PHOTO/DEAD GANG MEMBER IN CASKET

Puppet... a young 16-year-old cholo, dressed in gang

colors, laid out in an open casket.

ON TREVOR

Now as he hands the photo back to Rita.

Rita takes the photo back.    She doesn't want to talk

about it.

Rita collapses into a desk.

Trevor tentatively picks up Rita's essay (branded with a

big red "F") and begins reading it.

Trevor scrutinizes her with a glance.        Now back to Rita's

essay.

Trevor sets the essay down on Rita's desk.        Regards her

with genuine candor...

Rita collects herself, wipes the streaks of mascara

running down her cheeks with her sleeve. Trevor studies

her for a moment.

Rita pulls herself together and walks over to the island

counter.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                   62.

She grabs a handful of tissues, dabs at her smeared

mascara. Now her hair falls forward, exposing the back

of her neck... and a tattoo that reads "Puppet" in

a scrawling signature. She tosses her hair back and it

disappears.

He indicates the back of her neck.

She inserts her "failed" essay inside the rolled-up

spiral notebook.

The passing BELL for 6th period RINGS.       OFF Rita's torn

gaze.

(6TH PERIOD)

... fully mounted now on the wall above the blackboard.

NEW ANGLE

Every eye in the class is riveted on the camera. SETTLE

ON Cesar and Stevie seated in the back of the bungalow.

OFF their malignant stares...

Leveling a hard look, Cesar swaggers up to the island

counter.

Rita watches, a bated gaze, from her seat.

Trevor motions for him to come around behind the counter.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                  64.

Now Trevor removes his grandfather's pocket watch from

his briefcase and furtively dangles it for Cesar to

see.

Cesar glares at the watch, looks up at the video

camera.

Cesar walks out. Trevor smiles innocuously. At a

stalemate now. You can hear a pin drop. Suddenly

the CRIES of an E.N.A.B.L. BABY break the palpable

tension...

... Trevor's Rambler is parked out front.

A stilted Rita, planted on the couch.    Wearing less

makeup than usual.

Her notebook and pens are laid out on the coffee table

along with an old English grammar textbook. Trevor

stands in the kitchen doorway...

OFF Trevor's mollifying nod...

A moment of self-examination as he pours a glass of Coke

for Rita...

as Trevor approaches the couch, eyes focused on Rita's

soda.

Now he looks up and freezes.    Quickly turns away.

Rita, lying on the couch, completely naked.        Not sexual in

the least. More like a distorted offering.         Or a patient,

placidly waiting for her doctor.

An awkward moment. Chagrin becomes repressed sobs as

Rita picks up her pile of clothes off the floor and gets

dressed. This is one fucked-up little girl.

Fully dressed again, remotely staring, Rita holds back

tears. Trevor sits down on the couch next to her. Opens

textbook.

Rita opens her notebook and begins to copy the rule. She

wipes at the tears with the sleeve of her baggy sweat

shirt. Trevor resists the urge to comfort her.

Trevor kneels at the foot of his bed. Fully dressed,

shirt and loosened tie. Glimpses up at the crucifix on

the wall. Bows his head again...

BOOMING DOWN FROM the Blythe St. sign...

A cement barricade covered in graffiti chokes off street

traffic.

... Crack dealers and gangbangers freely wander the rows

of clapboard tenements, kids throwing sneakers, bangers

drinking from glass bottles.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                               67.

Now apartment 105 (Cesar Sanchez's).

MOVING IN ON the MUTED sounds of an ARGUMENT (in Spanish).

Dingy. Yellowing walls. Cesar and his mother continue

their arguing as Cesar watches first the "Animaniacs" and

switches channels to "The Deer Hunter," while his BABY

SISTER CRIES in her high chair.

MRS. SANCHEZ is older looking than her thirty-four years.

Clutching her purse...

Cesar yells at his SISTER to stop CRYING...

In a rage, Cesar digs into his pocket and throws twenty

dollars in his mother's face. She cowers.

They're interrupted by a KNOCK at the front door.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                     68.

Cesar plops down on an old worn out recliner and goes

back to watching "Animaniacs" on the TELEVISION.

ROSILLO STOPS her CRYING and Mrs. Sanchez carefully

gathers the money scattered at her feet.

Behind the screen door, a silhouette fills the doorway.

MOVING IN ON CESAR.

He can faintly hear the O.S. conversation as he watches

TV.

Cesar's stunned look lifts him from the recliner.

SANCHEZ

PIVOTING now to see Trevor enter the front door.

Cesar glares with flint-hard eyes at Trevor.

Breaking his unrelenting stare, Cesar now squeezes past

Trevor and out the screen door, slamming it behind him.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                   69.

Mrs. Sanchez cradles Rosillo in her lap.

ROSILLO begins to CRY again...

Suppressing her emotions, she comforts her baby. Trevor

weighs a vacuous stare. Now he notices a bruise under Mrs.

Sanchez's hairline, above her left eye.

Overcome with shame, she attempts to cover the bruise.

Steadfast and unflinching, Trevor beats a path back to

his car, parked outside the barricade. Cesar now appears

from nowhere. Carries a '40 ouncer' in a paper bag.

He's been drinking.

A handful of gangbangers, drinking and loitering

around Trevor's car, sharpen their stares and listen

intently. Cesar grows nervous.

Trevor steps around the gangbangers and climbs into

his car...

As the Rambler drives away Cesar heaves his 40 ouncer at

it. Shatters all over the pavement.

Cesar stands in the middle of the street, throwing hand

signs.

Trevor approaches, via the parking lot, through a gate in

a chain-link fence. ADJUST the ANGLE now to discover

first period students mobbing the open doorway of

Bungalow #86.

Trevor squeezes through the doorway to find Dave Childress

pacing the bungalow, assessing the damage. VIDEO CAMERA

(AND HOUSING) are scattered in pieces all over the floor.

One of the windows is smashed-in. A serpentine trail of

BLACK SPRAY PAINT encircles the entire room. Provocative

epithets tag the walls... "Pinche madre", "Puto" and "Fuck

you G!"

A curious stream of students fill the room now.     Childress

vents his anger at them...

And now Snowball... as Barsek discovers him... Lifeless.

Impaled by a pair of scissors on the front counter.

OFF Trevor's stricken gaze...

Childress snaps. He grabs Barsek by the throat. The

crowd scatters, students tripping over each other to get

out of the bungalow.

Trevor attempts to separate Childress from Barsek...

Trevor pries them apart. Barsek crumbles to the floor,

gulping for air and scurrying out of the bungalow on his

hands and knees.

ESTABLISHING the different student factions.

MUSIC, playing over a PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM, fills the

quad.

Trevor, now an interloper, crossing the senior lawn,

openly searching for Cesar.

Tag-bangers, a clique of eight or nine K.O.S. wanna-be(s).

Feature PACO (16) as they take quick hits off a blunt.

Now Cesar extinguishes the blunt with his fingertips and

hides it as Trevor wanders into their midst.

Laughs all around.

Trevor maintains his fervent demeanor. Now he notices

the ring on Cesar's right index finger.

INSERT - CESAR'S RING

emblazoned with a green marijuana leaf.

Cesar dramatically jerks back his finger.

As Cesar, with purpose, aims an invisible gun at Trevor...

Cesar starts to laugh.    A crowd begins to gather.

The boisterous crowd escalates... hoots and hollers.

After weighing the situation, Trevor exchanges palpable

looks with Cesar.

Now he reluctantly back-pedals, squeezing his way past

the wall of bodies pressed in behind him.

His departure across an empty lawn is accompanied by a

hail of "boos" and taunts.

as an 737 ROARS down onto the tarmac. In the f.g.,

Trevor and Ellen PEEL away from the curb angrily.

Traveling down Hollywood Way.

- NIGHT

in the front seat...

As they pull up to a stop light...

Triggers an unintended response...

The light changes to green. An impatient young man in

the car behind them BEEPS his HORN. Lays it on a little

too long.

Trevor snaps.

As Trevor gets out of the car, marching up to the car

behind, slamming his hand down on its hood...

The young man shrinks, quickly rolling up his window.

as Trevor gets back in and they drive away. Not a word

is spoken. Exorcising his demons now. He simmers.

OFF Ellen's disturbed gaze...

as the Rambler pulls into the driveway. Ellen's '92 Jeep

Cherokee is parked on the street. Bug zapper above the

garage flickers on.

CONTINUOUS ACTION

Light now spills into the front yard.         No sign of Jack.

Trevor SHUTS OFF the IGNITION.       A portentous silence.

Trevor reaches for a flashlight in the glove compartment.

ACTION

Trevor and Ellen step out of the car.

MOVING THROUGH the chain-link fence, into the front yard.

Ellen whistles faintly. Trevor turns on his flashlight.

The glare of the flashlight fixes on the trunk of the

olive tree.

Jack's chain stretching tautly toward the back alley.

Trevor and Ellen, propelled now toward the alley, hearts

pounding, frantically rushing toward the conclusion as

the flashlight traces the length of the chain...

The chain disappears over the top of the alley wall.

Trevor kicks open the alley gate and freezes.

centered in the flashlight beam, dangling there,

strangled to death at the end of his dog collar.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                    77.

Trevor holds her back. She unleashes her torment, punching

and kicking until fully spent, crumbling to her knees now,

sobbing hysterically.

HOLD ON her fitful sobs, and...

(APPROXIMATELY AN HOUR LATER)

Trevor, a beaten hypnotic gaze, watches as an ANIMAL

REGULATIONS OFFICER fatefully slams the cargo door of his truck.

Ellen watches Trevor's house; behind a screen door.

Ellen sits on Trevor's bed, fighting back tears.

Trevor enters with a glass of water and a pill.     Sits

down on the edge of the bed.

Trevor acquiesces. Steps over to his desk and sets the

glass of water down. A key protrudes from one of the desk

drawers. He leans over, removes the key and plays with it

for a moment.

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                                78.

Ellen shuts her heavy eyelids now.    Shuts out the world.

A thorough investigation now at the foot of Jack's

wall...

... Trevor's flashlight fixes on a faint set of shoe prints

in the dirt.

Waffle-soled Doc Martens.    He follows their trail, down

the alley.

Hesitating at the wall again. He now focuses his

flashlight beam on a smattering of graffiti... and

discovers a fresh tag...

In black spray paint, the letters K.O.S. Trevor reaches

out and touches a coagulated trickle of paint. As he

inspects the faint residue on his fingertip...

About 2 a.m.    The street's empty.

Cesar's darkened apartment is tucked away in the

distance. Now a lone figure emerges and beats a path

through the projects... CLOSER now... it's Cesar. White

T-shirt, sagging gray dickies...

FOLLOWING HIM now... as he crosses the edge of a dirt

lot. FOCUSING ON his Doc Marten boots and their waffle-

soled print...

1   8   7 - Rev. 7/10/96                               79.

Merging with Cesar as he slinks down the dark alley

corridor. Lighting a blunt off his Zippo lighter...

Cesar spray paints a wall with a can of black enamel paint.

He takes another hit. Chokes down a shit-eating grin. And

admires his work... a goofy dog smoking a blunt.

... below the dog he scrawls the word, "CARTOON." Above

it, "K.O.S. As he slips the spray can into his front

pocket, he senses a presence..

Profound silence. Grin dissolves. Riveted, Cesar takes

another slow hit off his blunt. Suddenly a coyote darts

past him.

His sick smirk returns. But only momentarily. Now a

premonitory flicker registers on his face. He blinks as

a Masai arrow splits the darkness and pierces his left

pectoral muscle.

Exhaling a stunned breath, Cesar looks down at the arrow.

An incredulous, stupefied laugh escapes him as he pulls

the arrow out of his chest and studies it...

The normal length of the arrow's been shortened by half

and the tip has been fitted with a modified hypodermic

needle. (The needle extends from a rubber stopper which has

retracted into the hypodermic casing, causing the

solution in the hypo to jettison through the needle and

into Cesar).

Now back-pedaling, stumbling, dropping the arrow, he

turns and runs off.

Cesar collapses onto a pile of garbage bags. MOVING IN.

His eyes fixed and dilated. Forehead beaded with

perspiration. Fighting against the effects of the

injection...

Now blackness...

