FADE IN:

OPENING TITLE SEQUENCE

EXT. SAN DIEGO - DAY

It's another picture perfect day in San Diego. The beaches,

golf courses, and yacht clubs are packed with hundreds of

rapturous citizens.

EXT. BUS STOP - DAY

A BUS pulls up and unloads it's passengers.

We follow ADAM SCHWARTZ(25), a kind faced, mild mannered,

pragmatist - who despite his youth has the cynicism of an old

man. He steps off the bus, crosses the street and approaches

MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL.

INT. MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL - DAY

Adam enters the Hospital. The mood is calm. All the chaos one

would expect to find in a hospital of this size is tucked

away behind the sterile and monochrome walls.

Adam walks to the reception counter. The RECEPTIONIST is

engrossed with the latest edition of US Weekly. She ignores

Adam who just stands there awkwardly, unsure of what to do.

Adam gives out a small cough to grab her attention. The

Receptionist keeps her eyes fixed on her magazine.

The Receptionist says nothing. Adam stands silent, not

knowing what to do. He coughs again.

Annoyed, the Receptionist looks up but says nothing.

With her eyes the Receptionist points to the waiting area.

The Receptionist rolls her eyes and returns to her magazine.

Adam looks around the empty waiting room. He takes a seat and

browses through a dozen outdated magazines: Highlights, Time,

Life, Modern Maternity, etc. Only moments later, as though he

hadn't just introduced himself, the Receptionist calls out:

Adam looks around the waiting room. There's no one else

there. Again the receptionist calls out again -

The Receptionist leads Adam to a small changing room and

hands him a hospital gown.

The Receptionist stares blankly at Adam.

The Receptionist leaves. Adam awkwardly undresses and slips

on the hospital gown. Unsure which end of the gown is the

front, Adam adjusts the garment a few times until he decides

he has it right.

Adam pulls back the curtain of the changing room to find

JOANNE, an overly cheery nurse.

Adam scratches his chest, the hospital gown is beginning to

irritate his skin.

Joanne hands Adam a giant specimen cup marked with a thick

yellow line.

Adam looks down at the cup in total disbelief.

The CAMERA PANS to reveal a group of MEDICAL STUDENTS taking

diligent notes in the background. WE PAN AGAIN this time to

the next room:

INT. HOSPITAL. BATHROOM

Adam struggles to fill the cup. After a few beats, there's a

knock on the door.

Adam looks down at the empty cup in frustration. The CAMERA

PANS to the next room:

INT. HOSPITAL. X-RAY ROOM

Adam stands in front of an X-Ray machine. The APATHETIC

TECHNICIAN has him stand in a dozen uncomfortable positions

for long periods of time: sideways, one arm in the air, then

the other arm, on one leg, then the other, one leg in the

air, then the other, and so on.

Again we see the group of Medical Students taking notes. The

CAMERA PANS to the next room:

INT. HOSPITAL. EXAMINING ROOM

Joanne pulls out a giant needle.

In the back we see the Med Students still taking notes. The

CAMERA PANS to the next room:

INT. HOSPITAL. MRI ROOM

Adam is lying on the gurney of an MRI machine. He is slowly

drawn into the enclosed body scanner.

INT. HOSPITAL. MRI ROOM - LATER

Adam lies perfectly still in the enclosed body scanner.

There's no one there. He's been left unattended. The MRI

Technician is watching the Laker game in the next room.

The Med Students continue to take notes.

END OPENING TITLE SEQUENCE

EXT. SAN DIEGO - EVENING

Through the window of the hospital the CAMERA PULLS OUT and

PANS across the San Diego skyline. We watch as the Sun sets

to night, then rises to morning...

EXT. SAN DIEGO BEACH - MORNING

It's a gray morning as the thick spring fog slowly begins to

lift. With no one in sight, the only sound that can be heard

is that of the waves crashing onto the shoreline and then

rolling back out to the Pacific Ocean.

About a mile inland, we come upon:

EXT. GRAND VIEW GATED COMMUNITY - DAY

Rows of identical two and three bedroom town houses with

lawns groomed to perfection fill the community. This is

Southern California Suburbia.

The sound of the waves crashing gets increasingly louder and

louder as we PUSH IN ON:

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The interior of Adam's house is spotless. Pictures on the

walls: Adam and his dad sailing. Adam and his parents at his

Bar Mitzvah. Adam and his best friend, Seth, at High School

Graduation. A University of Berkeley hat. A National Academic

Achievement Award in the Sciences.

Curled in a fetal position, Adam sleeps peacefully next to

RACHEL (25), his loving girlfriend. Cute, charming, and

artsy, Rachel is "Winnie Cooper" all grown up.

The sound of the waves crashing stops abruptly. A loud

obnoxious alarm clock goes off. Startled, Adam jumps up.

Drenched in sweat, and completely disoriented, he looks

around in confusion.

After a moment, Adam pulls an earplug out of each ear, and

turns off the alarm. The sound of the crashing waves turns

back on. Adam pushes a button on the alarm clock and the

sound of the waves stops, but the loud obnoxious alarm

returns. He pushes the clock again. The alarm turns off but

now we hear the sound of crickets chirping. Again Adam pushes

a button, this time we hear the sound of a loud thunder/rain

storm, he pushes a button again, this time we hear the sound

of loud clanging church bells. Rachel rolls over -

Frustrated, Adam tries pushing all the buttons. This only

makes it worse. We hear ALL of the previous sounds

simultaneously sound off. Rachel rolls over and moans as she

puts a pillow over her head.

Adam reaches down and unplugs the alarm clock, bringing an

end to the noise. He sits for a moment at the edge of the

bed, collects himself.

Adam looks down at Rachel and begins kissing her neck.

Rachel gently strokes her fingers through Adam's hair.

Something catches her attention - a single strand of hair.

She holds it up.

Adam jumps from bed. He rushes into the bathroom. Rachel

rolls back to sleep.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Adam stands in front of the mirror and searches for the gray

hair. Once he finds it, he holds it out for a closer look. It

is in fact a gray hair. He smiles.

INT. BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

As Adam showers, he tries to squirt shampoo into his hand,

but the bottle is empty. He looks over at Rachel's large

assortment of shower products, finds one that smells

pleasant, Fructis by L'Oreal, and squirts some into his hair.

He then proceeds to lather his entire body in the product.

INT. BEDROOM CLOSET - MOMENTS LATER

Adam dresses in front of the bathroom mirror. His outfit is

well put together, but not what you would expect of someone

his age - more of a Mr. Rogers look. He pulls out a LINT

BRUSH and meticulously combs his cardigan.

EXT. ADAM'S HOUSE - LATER

SETH (25), pulls up in front of Adam's house in his white

Neon and HONKS the horn. On the bumper is a sticker: "Let's

put the Christ back in Christmas."

Overweight, well dressed, and wearing an air of confidence,

Seth pulls out a massive joint, lights it and takes a hit.

Just then Seth looks over at 3 YOUNG SCHOOL CHILDREN and

their MOTHER waiting for the school bus. The mother's jaw is

on the ground in shock. Seth hides the joint and smiles in

embarrassment.

The mother quickly moves her kids out of sight.

Adam approaches Seth's car. He spots his neighbors ANDREW and

MISSY DONNELLY (late 40's) getting into their car. They wave

to Adam.

Adam shrugs as if to say "what the fuck?" Andrew and Missy

giggle as they get into their car.

INT. SETH'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Adam gets into the car.

Adam tries to close his window. The child safety lock is on.

Seth ignores Adam and turns up the music.

Adam begins to clear his throat, Seth turns the music even

louder.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - LATER

We see the morning bustle as BUSINESS MEN and WOMEN stand in

line waiting for their morning coffee. Adam and Seth stand at

the end of that line watching the YOUNG COUPLE in front of

them who can't keep their hands off of each other.

Seth laughs at his own joke.

Adam and Seth step up to the counter. They're greeted by the

SUPER GAY BARISTA, who loves his job way too much.

The Barista yells to DEMETRI, the other Barista.

Demetri examines Adam. He's not impressed with what he sees.

The Barista hands Seth and Adam two cups of coffee, they each

leave a dollar.

INT. SAN DIEGO MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - LATER

Adam and Seth enter the museum. They pass JENNY (30) at the

information desk.

Jenny ignores them.

PHIL (60), the museum's vivacious director approaches.

Phil sniffs the air and looks at Adam.

Phil goes in for a closer sniff. Then an even closer sniff.

Adam looks uncomfortable.

Seth's eyes open wide as Phil goes in for a sniff.

Seth spots a GROUP OF SECOND GRADERS with their TEACHER

assembled by the entrance.

Seth slaps on a button that reads "DOCENT" and rushes off to

greet the students.

Phil turns to Adam.

Phil stares into Adam's eyes for what feels like an eternity.

It's incredibly awkward.

Phil looks at the clock - 10 a.m.

Phil wanders off.

INT. MUSEUM. ORIGINS OF MAN EXHIBIT - LATER

Adam and GREG (45), Adam's slightly moronic co-worker, place

the finishing touches on the CRO MAGNON exhibit - it's an

elaborate life sized diorama depicting the life of a family

of four Cro Magnons. Outside their hut it's snowing, but

inside there's a large fire and decorative horse drawings on

the walls. The MAN instructs his SON to paint as the WOMAN

teaches her DAUGHTER to sew. We see Greg positioning the

fossil of a VELOCIRAPTOR next to the mother and daughter. The

dinosaur looks poised to pounce. Adam notices.

Adam cringes in frustration.

Greg reluctantly goes to put the dinosaur away. He flaps the

dinosaur's arm in the air - waving goodbye to Adam.

Seth leads his tour of second graders. He speaks like a tour

guide at Universal Studios.

Adam looks up. He hates this part of his job.

Adam gives a reluctant wave.

In excitement, the kids move in for a closer look.

Unaffected, the teacher stays back and files her nails.

KID 1 touches the Cro Magnon father. Still talking, Adam

steps in and moves Kid 1's hand off.

Damage control. Seth points to a life sized NEANDERTHAL MAN

holding a spear.

Seth picks up the spear and pretends to charge Adam.

The kids cheer.

Annoyed, Adam takes the spear out of Seth's hand.

Seth and Adam look at the kids, they look bored.

Adam's joke gets a small laugh from the teacher, but zero

response from the kids.

Adam and Seth look at each other in shock...Seth chimes in -

Seth runs down the hall towards the dinosaur exhibit. The

kids follow in excitement. The teacher barely bats an eye as

she takes her time slowly trailing after the group.

EXT. MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL - LATER

Adam enters the hospital...

INT. HOSPITAL. EXAMINING ROOM - LATER

Adam leafs through a pamphlet on Incontinence.

The pedantic DR. ROSS enters and completely ignores Adam.

Instead, he looks over Adam's chart, examines his MRI scans,

and pulls out a DICTAPHONE -

We see Adam's face gradually look more and more confused, he

slowly begins to raise his arm as if to ask a question.

Dr. Ross turns to see Adam holding his arm in the air.

Adam squints. It all looks the same.

Adam looks at himself in the mirror.

This is real. Adam walks to the window and presses his face

against the glass. He looks down at the city below. From 15

stories up, the people on the street look like miniature

figurines.

Adam turns back to Dr. Ross.

Dr. Ross puts on his best act of reassurance. His words are

seemingly genuine, his tone is anything but.

Dr. Ross takes a long look at Adam's devastated face.

Dr. Ross hands Adam a business card for the "Mount Sinai

Psychology Group".

Not knowing what else to say, Dr. Ross looks at his watch,

looks back to Adam, and moves to the door.

INT. SAN DIEGO PUBLIC LIBRARY - EVENING

CLOSE ON a computer screen:

"Neurofibrosarcoma Schwannoma. Treatment Forms: Chemotherapy

and Radiation offer negligible success rates. Surgical

resection proven to be most effective. Risks of surgery:

Amputation of limbs. Paralysis. Death. 2 Year survival rate:

50%. If tumor metastasizes systemically, 2 year survival

rate: 0%."

Adam sits staring at the screen. This is not good.

The LIBRARIAN, a tall blond surfer type, taps Adam on the

shoulder.

Startled. Adam looks up at the librarian.

The librarian motions to the LONG LINE of mostly HOMELESS

CUSTOMERS waiting to use the computer.

INT. BUS - EVENING

Adam sits deep in thought.

EXT. ADAM'S HOUSE - SAME TIME

The bus stops. Adam gets off, walks to his house, and takes a

deep breath...

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Adam enters the living room - it's empty. NPR News is on the

radio. Fresh paint dries on a canvas resting on an easel. The

sound of someone cooking comes from the kitchen.

Adam walks into the kitchen. Rachel is at the stove cooking

in her underwear. Adam stands in the doorway watching her.

God she looks sexy. Rachel turns -

Like a ballerina, Rachel crosses to Adam on her tip toes

holding out a spoon of her goulash. She holds up the offering

to Adam's mouth. He takes a small bite and smiles, trying to

hide his internal distress. His sad eyes tell Rachel another

story.

This is not going to be easy.

Rachel drops the accent. This seems serious.

Adam has no idea what to say.

Adam just looks her in the eyes...Rachel gets it.

In total shock, Rachel covers her mouth.

Rachel hugs Adam. Soaking in the comfort, Adam rests his head

on her shoulder. She gently strokes his hair. Adam's hand

slowly moves down Rachel's back. He starts kissing her neck.

He knows it's wrong, but can't help it, the only thing

running through his mind is sex.

After a beat Rachel pulls away.

Heart racing, Rachel opens the top pantry. She reaches back

as far as she can and pulls out a cookie jar. She sticks her

hand in the jar and pulls out an old pack of American

Spirits. Adam looks at Rachel disapprovingly.

Rachel puts one of the cigarettes to her mouth, lights it on

the stove and takes a drag.

Rachel begins compulsively pulling drags from the cigarette.

Adam takes the cigarette out of her hand. He goes to put it

out, but takes a drag instead. He then hugs Rachel with one

hand and opens the window with the other; he proceeds to

discreetly fan out the cigarette smoke.

They embrace in total silence...A beat. And then Adam groans

with the realization -

Adam is clearly not in the mood to see his parents.

PRE LAP: The sound of a doorbell...

INT. FOYER - ADAM'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Rachel and Adam stand in front of the door.

Rachel opens the door.

Adam's mother, EDITH SCHWARTZ (55) enters. Edith is a short,

portly woman with thick glasses and a bright red sweatshirt

bearing a cross-stitched cat on it. If the borough of Queens

and the city of Milwaukee had a child, it would be Edith.

Edith gives Rachel a big hug, and grabs for her left hand.

ART SCHWARTZ(58) enters the house carrying a CAT. Due to a

stroke 10 years prior, he carries a limp and is a little out

of it.

Art drops the cat and it bolts out the door.

INT. ADAM'S DINING ROOM - LATER

Everyone sits around the table. Edith pokes at her plate of

vegetarian goulash, confused as to what she's looking at.

Edith looks more confused.

Edith reluctantly takes a small bite of the goulash.

Edith puts her spoon down. She pulls a handful of pills out

her fanny-pack and puts them in front of Art.

Art picks up the pills and puts them in his mouth, but

doesn't swallow.

As Art swallows, Edith eagerly turns her attention to Rachel.

Not knowing how to tell his mother the upsetting news...

Here goes nothing.

Edith sits motionless for what seems an eternity. The only

indication that she's not dead is the movement of her index

finger, which twitches uncontrollably. Adam sits uneasy,

tying to anticipate his mother's next move.

Edith calmly rises from of her seat and heads to the kitchen.

Adam follows after her.

Edith lights the stove, and puts up a kettle of Tea.

Edith holds up the package of Green Tea.

Refusing to look at her son, Edith frantically rifles through

her fanny pack.

Her hands now shaking uncontrollably, Edith hands Adam a

large number of prescription pills.

Adam take Edith's hand.

Edith's a nervous wreck, frantic and hysterical.

Adam's father looks up from his plate of goulash...

Adam looks to Rachel for support.

Adam looks at Rachel and smiles.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - MORNING

Adam and Seth stand on an endless line of BUSINESS MEN and

WOMEN waiting for their morning coffee. Greg is at the front

of that line - he's taking forever to decide what he wants.

Adam impatiently looks at his watch.

Seth ignores Adam as he stares at the cleavage on the WOMAN

behind him.

Greg looks up at the menu of endless options.

Seth's eyes are still fixed on the woman's breasts.

Adam looks around at all the stodgy business men all having

menial conversations.

Greg still hasn't made up his mind. Adam snaps.

People in line look at Seth.

Seth takes a deep breath. A look of panic sweeps across his

face...he quickly shakes it off.

EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Rachel pulls her car up to the front of the hospital. Adam

kisses her goodbye and gets out of the car. He takes a few

steps and then turns back. He gives her a nervous smile and

then continues into the hospital.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER

Adam walks down the hospital corridor passing dozens of

patients, none of whom are under the age of 40. In Adam's

hand is the business card with "Mount Sinai Psychology Group"

written on it. He finds the office and knocks on the half

opened door.

The office is small, cold and emotionless - with stacks of

psychology books and files strewn about.

An attractive young woman, KATIE (26), sits behind a desk

reading a file while she eats a rather messy sandwich. Katie

takes her job very seriously, but has not quite mastered the

art of speaking without sounding like a rigid grad student.

Kate looks up as she takes a bite of her sandwich.

Katie puts down the sandwich, rises from her seat and puts

her hand out to shake Adam's.

Katie wraps up her sandwich and puts the rest away.

Off Katie's blank look.

That did not help to ease Adam's anxiety.

Adam notices a dark stain on the couch. He sits as far from

it as possible.

Katie pulls out Adam's file and sits in a chair across from

him. Adam looks anxious, this is his first time in therapy.

You mean you repress as a coping

mechanism.

Is that what I do?

That's what you just said.

The way I say it sounds cute in a

neurotic way. When you say it, it's

like an indictment. The word

"repress" - sounds so harsh.

It's actually quite common.

Oh good, I'd hate to think I'm

anything but an emotional sheep.

Don't think of it in those terms.

It's not like it's been a conscious

decision on your part. What's

important now is for you to be

aware of the way you treat your

emotions and for me to help you

make adjustments.

So how do we do that?

The first thing I want you to do is

to stop looking at cancer as a

burden. Cancer has come into your

life to show you that your

emotional and physical bodies are

out of balance. This is your chance

to correct that.

You're not in a cult are you?

Now, why do you say that?

I don't know, it was a bad joke.

Katie is losing Adam.

Adam's mind drifts away from Katie. He focuses on all the

clutter. The slanted clock. The wilting plant. The crumbled

paper on the floor. The mess is driving him crazy.

Katie presses play on her iPod. We hear the soothing sounds

of new agey flute music. Adam looks up in confusion.

Adam looks down at the coffee stained couch.

Katie stands behind Adam and places her hands on his

shoulders. Despite the fact that this is all too strange, he

doesn't mind, in a weird way, Adam is enjoying the attention.

He finally lies down, contorting his body so as to avoid the

stain.

Adam closes his eyes.

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Adam is seated at the dining table with his eyes closed.

Rachel crosses into the room and stands over Adam.

Adam opens his eyes to see Rachel holding a tiny SHIH-TZU

wearing a pink ribbon in it's hair.

Adam stares in confusion.

Rachel looks furious. Adam backtracks.

The dog looks at Adam. It's hopeless, there's no way Adam's

going to win this one.

Rachel's face lights up. She hugs Adam.

Adam turns to see the dog shitting on the carpet.

EXT. SAN DIEGO - EVENING

The sun sets over the San Diego skyline.

INT. SAN DIEGO MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - NIGHT

It's Adam's going away party. Draped across the entrance is a

"Bon Voyage" banner with an image of a Cruise Ship.

Adam, Rachel and Seth enter to find a crowd of mostly

unfamiliar faces. Phil, who has had one too many vodka

tonics, approaches Adam - drink in hand.

Phil takes a sip from his glass, and then offers it to Adam.

Phil puts his arm around Adam and gestures wildly - causing

his drink to splash on Adam.

Phil tugs on Adam's hair.

Phil puts his head on Adam's shoulder.

Adam is talking with his co-worker JOE.

Adam stands with SUSAN.

Adam stands with TED.

Adam with Susan again...

From across the room, Adam and Rachel lock eyes. He gives her

a defeated look, as if to say "help me." Rachel gives a

sympathetic smile.

From across the room, Rachel laughs at the entire episode,

Adam sparks a smile.

Adam is talking with EDDIE.

Adam with Susan...

Jenny cries hysterically as Seth consoles her.

Jenny walks away crying. Seth follows after her.

Adam makes himself a drink at the bar. Greg approaches.

Adam looks perplexed.

INT. RACHEL'S CAR - LATER THE SAME NIGHT

Rachel and Adam drive home from the party. They're in

completely different moods.

The car stops at a red light. Rachel looks at Adam. She finds

his pouting adorable. He sees her staring,

Rachel takes Adam's hand.

They look intensely into each others eyes and then kiss.

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Adam and Rachel make-out as they enter the house.

INT. ADAM'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

They make their way into the bedroom and clumsily undress one

another. Adam looks at Rachel's naked body.

Suddenly there's a loud scratching at the bedroom door,

followed by a loud whimpering. Rachel stops.

Adam continues to kiss Rachel.

The two continue making out. The dog starts to bark.

EXT. ADAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Adam stands on the sidewalk impatiently waiting for the dog

to do his business.

The dog sniffs around, trying to find the perfect spot.

ADAM'S NEIGHBOR walks by with A GIANT MASTIFF. He sees Adam

yelling at the little Shi Tzu in ribbons. Adam looks up...

Once the neighbor is out of sight-

The dog finally finishes. Adam runs back into the house.

After a minute, he realizes he left the dog in the street. He

runs back after the dog, scoops him up and then runs back

inside.

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Adam fumbles around in the dark as he tears off his clothes.

He then climbs back into bed, spoons Rachel, and begins

seductively kissing her neck. He slowly moves his hand

downwards. Rachel takes Adam's hand, pulls it up, and clasps

it tight against her chest.

The two lay silently with Adam's arms wrapped around Rachel's

body. A beat.

Rachel turns to Adam.

Rachel kisses Adam and lays her head on his chest.

EXT. BETH ISRAEL SYNAGOGUE - MORNING

Edith's car whizzes down the street and peels into the Beth

Israel Synagogue parking lot. The car comes to an abrupt stop

as it parks in the last empty space.

Edith and Adam step out of the car and walk 20 feet before

they realize Art is still in the car.

Art, still in the car, doesn't move. Edith looks at her watch

and walks back to the car.

Edith grabs Art's hand. He slowly gets out of the car.

INT. BETH ISRAEL SYNAGOGUE - MOMENTS LATER

Edith, Art and Adam enter into the 600 seat synagogue. The

service led by RABBI JACOBS (75) has already begun.

Edith spots three empty seats all the way in the left corner

of the first row. Prime seats, but a bitch to get to since

the service has begun - getting there would mean wading

through a row of two dozen people. The USHER approaches.

The Usher motions for Edith and company to sit in the back.

Adam's jaw tightens, he can't believe his mother just did

that. The Usher looks at Adam, sizing up the situation. Adam

couldn't be more uncomfortable.

The usher leads the group to the front and directs the people

in the front row to let them pass through.

Edith apologizes as each person they pass has to stand to let

them by.

Adam smiles in embarrassment as he steps past.

INT. BETH ISRAEL SYNAGOGUE. ATRIUM - LATER

Edith and Art stand in a crowd of 600 congregants socializing

and conversing after the service. ROSE (60) approaches.

As Adam walks through the atrium, he notices everyone

whispering and pointing at him.

Rabbi Jacobs (75) exits the bathroom, pulls up his fly and

spots Adam. Jacobs has the face of a leather couch from all

the tanning and face lifts. He spots Adam.

Adam looks over to see his mother surrounded by a dozen

sympathetic listeners as she tells them her horror story of

having a son with cancer.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

ALAN ALDA looks directly into the camera. The year is 1970.

Alan Alda walks down the hospital corridor.

A shot of people walking in Times Square, arrows slowly pop

up over the heads of every third person.

A reddish freckle dissolves into massive tumor.

Shot of a very PRETTY WOMAN being administered a small pill

by a Nurse. The woman smiles politely to the Nurse.

Shot of a Doctor speaking intently to the Pretty Woman who

listens closely.

Shot of a poorly designed diagram of the human body. A milky

substance runs through the body destroying all the various

cells in it's path.

Image of yawning kitten.

Shot of a School Nurse checking a child's temperature.

The music begins to ramp.

Shot of APOLLO 11 lifting off.

A shot of a girls volleyball team. One of the players serves

up a pass and another spikes it down. All the girls high-

five.

Back on Alan Alda.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

A small group of patients, including Adam, have been watching

the video. The people in the room applaud, Adam looks around

baffled by both the video and the clapping.

GEORGE, a tall male nurse of Bahamian descent, enters the

room.

Adam stands.

Adam follows George into the elevator where they ride down

into the bowel of the hospital: The Cancer Ward.

Walking through the long ominous halls of the hospital

basement, Adam passes dozens of sick patients who are being

shuttled into Radiation Therapy, Chemotherapy and other

various treatment rooms.

A sick, fat, BALD ELDERLY WOMAN coughs as she passes. Adam

winces in disgust.

George leads Adam into a Chemotherapy Treatment room.

INT. HOSPITAL. CHEMOTHERAPY ROOM - LATER

Adam is seated in a plush leather chair where he's hooked

into a chemo drip. He's surrounded by a dozen gaunt, hairless

patients. He is the youngest patient by at least 20 years.

Completely overwhelmed, Adam spots A BALD WOMAN sitting

quietly knitting. She's at peace with herself. Her Zen like

state helps Adam relax.

Adam skims through a catalogue of clothing intended for

cancer patients until he notices HENRY (50), a very small man

sitting in a wheel chair which is attached to a respirator.

Despite the fact that every breath Henry takes looks like it

might kill him, he barks derogatory statements at the wall.

Adam looks on in terror. The genial MITCH(85) notices.

ALAN (84), the contentious old man sitting next to Mitch

chimes in.

Adam looks down to see that Alan is holding a ONE HITTER full

of weed.

Adam reluctantly takes a hit.

Alan and Mitch laugh.

Adam is beginning to feel the effects of the weed.

Adam stares off into space. He's really high, almost like

he's tripping. The walls start spinning.

EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - DAY (DREAM)

Adam is standing on line for a Roller Coaster. He gets to the

front of the line when the CARNIE stops him.

Everything Adam says is in German and subtitled in English.

The Carnies points to a sign that reads "No Cancer."

The Carnie points out Adam's T-shirt, it reads "I'M WITH

CANCER."

Adam turns around to see a GIANT BALD FAT MAN eating cotton

candy, his shirt reads "CANCER".

Adam tries to run away, but he's attached to the Giant Fat

Bald Guy via an umbilical cord. The Giant Fat Bald Guy

reaches out, picks Adam up, and swallows him.

END DREAM SEQUENCE

INT. ADAM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Adam jolts out of bed. His clothes are drenched in sweat. He

looks down to see Rachel sleeping peacefully next to him. He

quickly gets out of bed and runs into the bathroom. And by

the sound of it, throws up. A lot. Rachel mutters something

incoherent and then sprawls out, consuming the entire bed.

INT. HOSPITAL. KATIE'S OFFICE - NEXT DAY

Adam looks worn and exhausted from the chemo. He's never felt

worse.

Katie's patience is waning.

Adam snaps, rasing his voice.

Katie's a little shaken by Adam's outburst. She stays firm.

Adam knows he went too far. Plus, that little outburst lifted

a little wight off his shoulders, and he knows it.

Katie looks at Adam, is he being for real? She's skeptical.

Katie hands Adam a sheet of paper with a list of books

scribbled on it.

WE PUSH IN ON THE LIST OF BOOKS:

INT. BOOKSTORE. SELF HELP SECTION - DAY

WE PULL OUT ON THE LIST OF BOOKS:

Adam and Seth browse through shelves of books. Seth is

reading the author's bio from one of the books on Katie's

list.

Seth ditches the New Age book and picks up one on Mardi Gras.

Adam takes the book from Seth's hands and puts it down.

From across the store, Seth notices, CLAIRE (30), an

attractive employee stacking books.

Seth yanks the list of books from Adam and crosses to Claire.

Seth hands Claire the list of book titles. She reads.

Seth nods towards Adam across the room.

Claire shoots Adam a look - the way one looks at a dying

puppy. Adam looks on in confusion.

Claire leans in.

INT. BOOKSTORE - LATER

Adam and Seth exit the bookstore. They pass Claire who gives

Seth a big smile followed by the "call me" motion.

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Adam and Seth smoke a joint as they watch "Planet Earth" on a

brand new 50" flat screen TV. There are a dozen oversized

boxes marked "Rachel" scattered throughout the house.

Rachel yells from the bedroom.

Rachel enters the room with the dog cradled in her arms.

Rachel finds the leash and then smells the joint.

Rachel's shocked, this is way out of character for Adam.

Rachel rolls her eyes. Seth is ridiculous. Then she notices

the new flat screen TV on the wall and just like that, her

demeanor switches. She looks pissed.

Rachel walks to the door, scoops the dog up in one arm and a

bag of garbage in the other.

The door slams.

Seth nearly chokes as he inhales.

Seth takes a hit from the joint and hands it back to Adam.

INT. HOSPITAL. KATIE'S OFFICE - DAY

Adam sits in Katie's office.

Adam is slightly taken aback by Katie's response.

INT. LAUGHTER THERAPY - DAY

Adam and Seth are seated in a semi-circle with a half dozen

middle aged men and women. At the front of the group is the

LAUGHTER THERAPIST (50) - a short man with a long greying

pony tail and a thick beard. All eyes are closed except for

Seth and Adam's. Adam's hair is noticeably thin.

The class laughs. Adam and Seth look around paranoid.

Seth and Adam laugh along with the others.

The Laugh Therapist opens his eyes and stares intensely at

Adam and then Seth.

The Laughter Therapist closes his eyes.

Adam looks around in fear of saying the wrong thing.

The entire class laughs hysterically.

The class laughs.

The class laughs.

The class laughs.

The class laughs.

Everyone laughs except for Seth.

INT. ADAM'S BATHROOM - DAY

TIME LAPSE: Adam stares at himself in the mirror. His health

slowly deteriorates. Hair begins to fall out. His face thins.

INT. HOSPITAL. HALLWAY - DAY

Adam, Alan and Mitch sit in the corridor of the Cancer Ward.

Adam is wearing a ski hat to cover his balding head.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal an INSANELY HOT WOMAN with giant

breasts in a hospital gown walk by the three men.

The hot woman scratches her head, revealing that she's

wearing a WIG.

Alan hands Adam and Mitch each a five dollar bill.

Mitch notices Adam watching one of the OTHER PATIENT's

sitting and laughing with HIS WIFE. There's a longing in

Adam's eyes.

Adam looks around at all the sick people.

Mitch pulls out his wallet. He holds out a picture of his

wife MARGARET (80).

Adam let's this soak in.

EXT. HOSPITAL - AFTERNOON

Adam's on his cell phone pacing in front of the hospital.

EXT. HOSPITAL PARKING LOT - LATER

Adam paces impatiently. He calls Rachel again, it goes

straight to voice mail.

As Katie walks to her car, she sees Adam pacing and mumbling

to himself.

Katie looks at her watch.

INT. KATIE'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Adam is seated in the front seat as Katie drives. The car is

filthy - it's littered with papers, magazines, food wrappers,

etc. Katie's body is pressed all the way up against the

steering wheel with her eyes fixed on the road.

Adam picks up a copy of "Organizing Your Way to Success,"

which is lying on the floor.

Changing the subject.

Katie stares at Adam in shock.

Katie lets out a tiny chuckle, but quickly contains herself.

Unable to hold back, Katie continues laughing. This is the

first time we've seen Katie let go of her rigid nature.

Katie looks at Adam nervously.

Katie stops the car. Adam grabs a handful of Katie's garbage

and gets out.

Adam tosses the garbage in a dumpster and comes back to the

car for more. Katie starts laughing, she can't believe Adam

is cleaning her car.

Adam leaves Katie's dinner and throws out the rest of the

garbage. He gets back in the car and takes a deep breath.

EXT. ADAM'S HOUSE - LATER

Adam and Katie arrive at Adam's house.

Adam looks at his house. The lights are out. He's really not

in the mood to be alone. He looks back at Katie.

Katie is hesitant, but she also feels in a strange way that

Adam is more than a patient.

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Adam and Katie sit on the couch playing an ultra-violent

video game. Katie is destroying Adam.

Adam is totally lost. He has zero sense of how to play.

Katie's face lights up. She's proud of herself for that one.

Katie laughs.

This is the most emotionally honest we've ever seen Adam.

Katie feels for Adam.

The two continue to play. Adam wildly pushes every button as

Katie's character pins Adam's character and repeatedly slams

his head into the ground.

Game over.

Katie pats Adam on the shoulder.

INT. ADAM'S KITCHEN - LATER THAT NIGHT

Adam holds out a tray of wheat grass as he prepares to blend

wheat grass shots.

Adam is far more excited by this revelation. He hands Katie a

shot of wheat grass and takes one last sniff of the awful

smelling drink. He raises his glass to make a toast.

Adam downs the drink and cringes at the taste. Katie follows,

and in total disgust, she spits her wheat grass all over

Adam's face.

Katie grabs a towel as Adam stands speechless.

Adam keeps his eyes closed as Katie wipes his face.

For the first time, Katie notices how cute Adam is. Adam

opens his eyes to catch Katie staring at him. They lock eyes

for a moment. Uncomfortable, Adam averts his look.

Suddenly, Rachel walks through the front door.

Feeling a little foolish, Katie motions to leave.

Rachel enters the kitchen.

Awkward silence. The tension is thick.

Katie leaves.

Rachel begins to cry.

Adam tenderly wraps his arms around Rachel.

A beat.

INT. ADAM'S BEDROOM - LATER THE SAME NIGHT

Rachel stares at Adam as he sleeps next to her in bed. She

slowly moves her index finger along Adam's arm and then

seductively kisses his neck. Adam firmly grabs hold of Rachel

and the two begin to go through the motions. Clothes come

off. Adam gets on top of Rachel...And then stops.

Adam looks down.

Adam rolls over onto his back. He and Rachel lay silent -

neither making contact with the other.

INT. HOSPITAL. CHEMOTHERAPY TREATMENT ROOM - MORNING

Adam sits down next to Mitch, but notices there's no Alan.

Speechless, Mitch looks up at Adam and slowly shakes his

head. Tears roll down Mitch's cheek. Adam's face goes white.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Adam and Mitch stand next to the RABBI.

The tombstone reads "ALAN LIEBOWITZ (1923-2007) FINALLY."

THE CAMERA TILTS up to the sky, and then DOWN to reveal:

EXT. BOCA RATON RETIREMENT COMMUNITY - DAY (DREAM)

A healthy Adam is surrounded by dozens of energetic elderly

people who are swimming, playing bocci ball, shuffle board,

bridge, etc. Adam looks on in confusion as an OLD MAN wearing

an official looking badge drives by on a golf cart.

The old man stops his cart.

The old man scratches his balls.

The old man points to a long line of excited seniors awaiting

their turn at a massive Frozen Yogurt Sundae Bar. A sign in

front reads "WAIT: 45 MINUTES".

End Dream.

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Adam jumps from bed in cold sweat.

INT. SYNAGOGUE. RABBI JACOB'S OFFICE - DAY

Adam is seated in the Rabbi's office, he looks despondent.

INT. HOSPITAL. KATIE'S OFFICE - DAY

Adam is lying on the couch staring at the ceiling. There is

total silence.

Adam sits up and looks at Katie.

Adam leaves. Katie is left feeling as though she failed.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Adam lies on the bed of an MRI machine. His body is slowly

drawn into the enclosed body scanner.

INT. ADAM'S BATHROOM - MORNING

TIME LAPSE: Adam's stares at himself in the mirror. His

health deteriorates even more.

Looking at himself in the mirror, Adam takes note of his

hollow cheeks and worn eyes. He looks awful, like an old man.

There isn't any youth left. He's not getting any better, and

he knows it.

Noticing a few renegade hairs sticking up, Adam pulls out a

lint brush and combs his head.

Rachel enters and steps up on the scale. She examines herself

in the mirror.

Rachel continues to examines her waist.

Adam stares at Rachel.

Rachel leaves. In frustration Adam weakly picks up the scale

and throws it against the wall, smashing it.

INT. ADAM'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Adam sits alone in his empty house. It's a mess. He looks

unhinged.

He slowly pulls a hit from a joint as he watches Matlock on

his flat screen TV, which has been moved to the floor to make

room for Rachel's painting.

Adam flips the channel to Martha Stewart, then to I Love

Lucy, then to General Hospital, then to Body Building on

ESPN. He turns the TV off. He's bored.

Adam crosses to the answering machine. It reads "10

Messages." He presses play. All the messages are from his

mother. He hits delete.

Adam reads through a stack of unopened letters. He comes

across a postcard from the Museum advertising "Mountain Dew

Presents: The Origins of Man".

INT. SAN DIEGO MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - DAY

CLOSE ON: the "Mountain Dew Presents: The Origins of Man"

poster in the Museum's main entrance.

Adam enters the museum and walks up to the sign. People stop

and stare, stunned by Adam's gaunt appearance - like a ghost

haunting the grounds. Adam carries a wide smile, he's

overcome with a sense of nostalgia for his old job.

INT. PHIL'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Phil and Adam sit in Phil's office.

Phil is treading a fine line...

Adam looks dejected. Phil feels bad, he went too far.

Phil, second-guessing his decision-

INT. MUSEUM. POMPEII EXHIBIT - LATER

Seth leads a tour of FOREIGN TOURISTS through the museum. He

speaks as he did earlier - like a game show host.

Seth comes upon Adam who is working closely on a diorama.

Adam's exhibit is a highly morbid depiction of Pompeii's

final hours. The scene is total chaos. Ash flies through the

air. Hot molten lava engulfs the town. Miniature men, women,

and children run through the streets in horror. People are

sacrificing whatever they can for the Gods. There's a wild

orgy in the streets. And a giant TYRANNOSAURS REX model

devours a villager.

The tourists take pictures. In shock, Seth quickly shuttles

the group away.

Seth looks back at Adam like he's lost his mind.

INT. MUSEUM. HALL - LATER

The sound of someone vomiting can be heard booming from the

men's bathroom. A crowd of Museum guests walk past in horror.

They look at each other in fear. The toilet flushes. Adam

walks out. Everyone stares. Adam smiles in embarrassment.

Adam walks back to the Pompeii exhibit. Phil approaches.

Phil notices the Pompeii exhibit.

Phil feels terrible about what he's going to say next.

Phil places a comforting hand on Adam's shoulder.

INT. MUSEUM. ORIGINS OF MAN EXHIBIT - MOMENTS LATER

Distraught, Adam walks down the Hall of Evolution. Slouched

in defeat, he passes the various dioramas depicting human

evolution. He begins at MODERN HUMANS and walks backwards in

time.

He comes to the family of Cro Magnons, then Neanderthal man.

He stops and looks at Neanderthal - their slumped profiles

match. He continues down the hall towards the exit.

EXT. SAN DIEGO BOARDWALK - AFTERNOON

Adam walks along the boardwalk. He's surrounded by

perfection. The beach. The water. The blue sky. Hundreds of

beautiful men and women in their 20's and 30's: jogging,

biking, surfing, skate boarding, playing volleyball, etc. He

looks like a raisin among grapes.

EXT. ADAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Adam stands impatiently on his porch. He looks at his watch

and then dials his phone.

Adam's face is red with fury. He does his best to hold back.

Enraged, Adam hangs up.

Adam picks up his phone and dials again.

Adam hangs up and dials again.

Adam holds the phone away from his ear and cringes. A pang of

regret runs through his body.

INT. HOSPITAL EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER

Edith, Art and Adam sit in the exam room, each reading their

respective magazines - minus Art who is lost somewhere in his

own world. The tension is thick. Edith looks at her watch and

shivers. There's a knock at the door. A CUTE NURSE enters.

Adam's pissed that his mother has just involved him.

The Nurse smiles at Adam in sympathy, he smiles back. The

Cute Nurse exits.

Edith puts her hand on Adam's forehead. He looks at her hand

and then picks up a magazine in an attempt to ignore her.

Edith pulls some pills out her fanny pack.

Adam puts the pills in his mouth and pretends to swallow.

Edith gets up from her chair. As soon as his mother turns

away, Adam spits the pills into his hand.

Edith paces around the room looking at the Doctor's various

degrees on the wall.

Adam looks on, annoyed at every step his mother takes. Edith

closes in on one of the degrees and puts on her reading

glasses for further examination.

Adam can't take it anymore.

Edith turns away, Adam's words hurt.

Edith blows her nose as tears rolls down her cheek.

Adam gently puts his hand on Edith's shoulder.

Edith turns to Adam helpless and scared.

We see Art sitting in the chair picking his nose.

Adam and Edith share a moment...Dr. Ross storms in the room

carrying a stack of MRI films. He seems rushed.

Adam and Edith look at Dr Ross with blank stares.

Dr. Ross places the MRI into the light box.

Adam and Edith squint to see what Ross is talking about, but

see nothing.

Tears roll down Edith's cheek. Adam grabs hold of her hand.

Dr. Ross sits, he knows this can't be easy for a mother.

Adam looks at his mother. He firmly grabs hold of her hand.

Adam's line breaks the tension forcing a slight smile across

Edith's face.

INT. ADAM'S HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Distraught and emotionally worn, Adam enters to discover the

smell of a home cooked meal. He walks through the house.

INT. ADAM'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

He stands in the doorway of the kitchen staring at Rachel

cooking. Rachel turns around. She's in high spirits.

Rachel gleefully skips over and gives Adam a sweet kiss on

the cheek.

Adam feigns a smile, hiding the pain of his heart breaking in

a thousand pieces.

Suddenly Rachel's iPhone VIBRATES. She picks it up, and reads

her text message. Her face lights up as she reads. She

quickly types a reply.

Rachel puts the phone down on the counter and returns to her

cooking.

Adam walks to the bedroom. After a beat he moves back to the

doorway and pops his head around the corner. He quietly

watches Rachel cross from the kitchen into the living room.

He stealthily steps into the kitchen, picks Rachel's iPhone

off the counter and scrolls through her text messages.

Rachel enters the kitchen.

Rachel reaches for the phone. Adam pulls away.

Adam holds up Rachel's phone to display a photo of Rachel

naked, covered in red paint.

Adam scrolls through an entire series of nude photos of

Rachel - all ridiculously artistic.

Suddenly the back door swings open. Oblivious, Seth enters.

Adam and Rachel say nothing. Seth can tell he just walked

into some major shit.

Adam and Rachel say nothing. Seth takes a peak at Rachel's

iPhone.

Seth crosses to the living room. Rachel picks up the

conversation where they left off.

Rachel totally forgot about his appointment. The guilt runs

through her body.

Like a child being scolded, Rachel's face says it all.

Rachel stares at Adam with her adorable green eyes. She takes

his hand.

They embrace. A beat. Adam lets go. He looks Rachel in the

eyes.

Adam walks out the back door.

Seth enters the kitchen and gets in Rachel's face. He stares

her down.

Seth exits out the back door.

EXT. YACHT CLUB - LATER THAT NIGHT

Adam and Seth sit on the bow of a docked sail boat. The two

have had a lot to drink. Adam is understandably upset.

Seth makes a masturbating motion with his hand.

Adam stares out at the ocean. Reality check.

Adam throws his beer bottle into the ocean.

Seth puts his arm around him.

Seth stands, and then stumbles. He's really drunk.

The two get off the boat and climb into Seth's car.

Adam puts the key in the ignition. Without checking the

mirrors, he backs the car up. BOOM the car slams into a giant

statue of Neptune riding a sea horse.

Adam pulls out of the parking lot.

Adam turns left onto a one way street. It's the wrong way.

An oncoming car honks and swerves out of the way - only

nearly avoiding a head on collision.

Another car swerves out of the way.

Seth pulls the emergency brake. The car stops abruptly.

A beat.

Adam looks like he's about to erupt.

Seth looks at Adam speechless, and then gets out of the car.

Adam locks the doors and sits quietly for a moment. He then

proceeds scream at the top of his lungs. 25 years worth of

suppressed emotions come out.

Adam pulls out his cell phone. Seth notices. He tries to open

the door. It's locked.

Adam ignores Seth and begins to dial.

Adam gives Seth the finger.

Seth looks hurt. Adam holds the phone up to his head.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME TIME (INTERCUT)

The phone rings. A dark figure in bed sits up and turns on

the bedside lamp. It's not Rachel, it's Katie.

Katie sits up. She's awake now.

Katie laughs. And then silence, she really cares about him.

Suddenly Adam passes out. His head slams into the steering

wheel. The Horn blares.

EXT. SETH'S APARTMENT - LATER THAT NIGHT

Seth and Adam stagger into the building.

INT. SETH'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Adam and Seth enter the dingy studio apartment - it looks

like it hasn't been cleaned in years. Adam scoops up some

dust with his finger.

Seth is unusually quiet. Both guys are being distant. Seth

pulls down the Murphy Bed and the two awkwardly avoid eye

contact as they undress. Adam climbs into bed. He notices a

book called "Coping with Your Loved One's Cancer" on Seth's

bedside table. The book is worn and has multiple book marks -

indicating it's been read. Adam looks at Seth, he had him

pegged all wrong.

Seth claps his hands. The lights turn off.

Lying in bed, Adam hears a strange noise, he tilts his head

to the side to see Seth breathing heavily and staring at him.

Seth lays back on his pillow and holds onto Adam's hand. They

both stare up at the ceiling - terrified about the future.

EXT. FOX MEADOW GALLERIA PARKING LOT - NEXT DAY

Seth's car enters the Mall parking lot and parks.

A beep.

INT. MEN'S WEARHOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Adam and Seth browse through racks of mens suits. Adam comes

upon one he likes. The SALES CLERK approaches.

EXT. REDWOOD FUNERAL HOME/CEMETERY - SAME DAY

Seth's car drives up the long driveway of the Cemetery.

A beep.

EXT. FUNERAL HOME/CEMETERY - LATER

A MORTICIAN, stout and dignified, with a slight British

accent leads Adam and Seth on a tour of the cemetery grounds.

The Mortician stops and looks at Seth. He's not even going to

dignify Seth with a reply. A beat.

Adam and Seth look at the rows of Schwartz family tombstones.

Up front is an empty gap, presumably where Adam and his

parents are to go. Adam and Seth stare at the graves as we:

INT. HOSPITAL PRE-OP ROOM - EARLY MORNING

Adam lies on a gurney. DR. LAMB, the neurosurgeon performing

Adam's surgery enters. He's wired on Espresso. Behind him is

NURSE WONG who looks like she'd rather be anywhere else.

Despite Dr. Lamb's already thick glasses, he holds Adam's

medical chart right up to his to his face.

Adam forces a small chuckle. He's completely terrified.

Dr. Lamb exits. Nurse Wong hands Adam a giant pile of

disclaimers to sign.

Adam signs the documents and hands them back to Nurse Wong.

As Nurse Wong exits, Edith and Art enter.

Edith pulls a strip of pills out of her fanny pack. She hands

them to Adam like she's slipping him illegal drugs.

Adam looks closely at the pills - they read "NUPRIN."

Adam looks at his mother, perplexed by her logic.

Adam downs the pills. Art whispers closely into his ear.

Adam sticks his hand inside the pocket of Art's coat.

Art grabs hold of Adam's hand and stares at his son. A beat.

Katie knocks on the door.

Katie slowly enters holding a bouquet of flowers. Edith

examines her. This is too awkward.

Adam nods for his mother to leave.

On her way out, Edith turns to Katie and notices a CROSS

around her neck.

Edith and Art exit. Adam is left alone with Katie. They're

both nervous.

Katie sits on the bed next to Adam.

A small GERMAN ANESTHESIOLOGIST enters. There is something

incredibly unsettling about her thick accent.

Adam holds Katie's hand.

The Anesthesiologist injects the drugs into Adam's IV.

Just like that, Adam's out cold.

INT. HOSPITAL SURGICAL AMPHITHEATER - LATER

Adam is face down on the operating table. Two Neurosurgeons,

Dr. Lamb and DR. HENRY are in mid surgery. Alongside the two

doctors are Nurse Wong and NURSE SCOTT.

Standing to the side of the operating table is the group of

Med Students from earlier. They're still taking notes.

INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Edith, Art and Seth sit impatiently watching the clock. Katie

paces up and down the hall. Hours go by. Time can't seem to

go by quick enough.

INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - LATER

Dr. Lamb finds Edith, Katie and Seth in the waiting room.

INT. HOSPITAL ICU - MOMENTS LATER

Adam's in his hospital bed - still asleep from the surgery. A

NURSE comes in to change his IV. Adam slowly awakens. He is

high on morphine. He stares, mesmerized by the nurse.

Dr. Lamb enters.

Dr. Lamb picks up a handle that's attached to the morphine

drip and sticks it in Adam's hand.

Adam moves his hands really slowly in the air -

Art and Edith enter the room. Adam reacts like a little kid

being picked up from pre-school.

Katie pops her head out from behind Adam's parents.

Suddenly the most excruciating pain runs through Adam's body

causing him to scream in agony.

Adam squeezes the trigger. The morphine offers immediate

relief. He lays back in total bliss, and then...

FADE OUT TO WHITE LIGHT.

EXT. BEACH HOUSE - DAY

A door bell. A hand reaches out. A finger on that hand pushes

the door bell. The other hand holds a bouquet of flowers.

The hand belongs to Mitch's wife, MARGARET (80). She stands

on the porch of a small beach bungalow.

The front door opens. Margaret looks straight ahead. Nothing.

She then looks down, startled by Adam in a wheelchair.

There's a glow in Adam's face - he looks younger and more

jovial than we've ever seen.

Adam blushes.

Adam leads Margaret inside, past a dozen oversized boxes.

INT. ADAM'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Adam and Margaret enter the living room. Everyone's there:

Edith, Art, Katie and Seth.

Seth and Katie are playing a video game: DUCK HUNT. Edith

sets food on the table.

Adam holds up the controller - an old Nintendo Gun.

Edith chimes in from across the room.

Everyone makes their way to the table. Visibly weak, Adam

slowly lifts himself out of the wheelchair. He yelps in pain.

Katie starts to help when Seth intervenes.

Seth grabs hold of Adam, and with his help, Adam takes a

small step and then lowers himself into his seat at the

table. Katie places a pillow behind Adam's back.

Adam takes Katie's hand, she looks down at him, they exchange

a smile.

Adam notices and open window.

Seth ignores Adam as he fills both their plates with food.

We FREEZE on the family sitting around the dinner table.

We hear the song "That's the Way The World Goes Round" by

John Prine as we:

