DAVID BALDACCI

In the moonlight -- it looks exactly like his drawing.

But no drawing could convey the size of the place -- we

are looking at ten thousand square feet. Wealth and

power.

We're in rolling hill country.     The mansion is dark.

Totally deserted. Silence.

Now a sound - TIRES ON GRAVEL. A car comes rolling INTO

VIEW. The motor of the car has been turned off. The

lights of the car have been turned off. The car slides

to a stop. Again, silence...

HOLD ON mansion, a couple of hundred yards away.     There

is a small field between the car and the estate.     Now --

A man holds binoculars, studying the place. He wears

dark clothes, tennis shoes. He puts down the binoculars,

begins to smear his face with black camouflage cream --

-- it's Luther, and he's been a  professional thief his

entire life. He's a three-time   loser, but his last

sentence was so long ago and his  skills are now so vast,

so refined, that it is unlikely  he will ever get caught

again.

The grounds as Luther glides through it.     He wears a

backpack.

The night is cool.

He stops. All that separates him from the mansion now is

a stretch of gorgeous lawn. Except for Luther, it isn't

gorgeous -- it's no-man's land.

One final check of his surroundings -- then he sets off,

in graceful motion, long strides eating up the ground.

He makes no sound at all.

Thick wood with reinforced steel.

Luther stops by the door, takes off his backpack, opens

it. He puts on plastic gloves that have a special layer

of padding at the fingertips and palms. Now he takes a

key, inserts it in the front door, turns it, and the

instant he pushes the door open -- ZOOM TO:

The infrared SECURITY DETECTOR -- it immediately starts

to BEEP and you can see the seconds being counted down:

forty, thirty-nine, thirty --

-- in his hands now is an automatic screwdriver, no more

than six inches long --

-- he sets to work on the security panel that is inside

in the foyer next to the front door.

The screwdriver undoes the first screw, the second --

Thirty-one, thirty, twenty --

Now the third and fourth screws are in hands and he lifts

the security panel away.

The BEEPING sound is constant --

-- and getting louder.

A tiny device, no bigger than a pocket calculator. It

has two wires protruding from it. It is, we are about to

find out, a tiny computer. Luther holds it like a baby.

Eighteen, seventeen --

probing with the wires into the heart of the security

panel.

The BEEPING is LOUDER still.

The security panel. Luther is attempting delicate work

and it's dark so it isn't easy but he continues to probe

with the wires and --

Eleven, ten --

and he's got it attached!

Now the face of the tiny computer is alive with numbers

-- they fly by much too fast for us to make them out

clearly.

Four, three, two --

as five numbers lock -- 7 -- 13 -- 19 -- 8 -- 11 --

The BEEPING sound dies.

A glance across the foyer -- the lights of the security

detector go from red to a warm looking green.

Safe.

Three remotes on a side table. Luther carefully picks up

the middle one, crosses the room with it, points it at

the large mirror, clicks once --

-- and the mirror swings silently open.

A room is revealed. All we can see of it so far is this:

There is an armchair in the middle facing where the

mirror had been.

Luther turns back toward the sitting area, the remote

held in his hand.

The side table. Luther puts the remote down -- very

carefully. In the exact position it had been. Now he

takes a moment, blows on his hands, rubs them together.

Then -- Luther takes a collapsible duffel bag out of his

backpack, moves with the work light into the revealed

room --

It's a vault! And it's FULL! There's cash, naturally,

piles of the stuff. Plus all kinds of other valuables

we'll get around to.

Luther's a little stunned -- it's more than he hoped for.

He glances at the armchair -- there is a remote on it

that is identical to the one he replaced at the side

table.

Now he opens his duffel all the way and sets to work.

First the cash goes in -- all neatly bundled. Large

denominations. Lots of bundles. Next are a series of

slender boxes --

The first box as Luther opens it.

Jewelry.

Into the duffel it goes.

Luther, emptying more jewelry boxes into the duffel.    And

still more. As he continues to do this --

All is quiet. High on a wall, the security light beams a

friendly green.

Now, from somewhere, a distant sound.   LAUGHTER?   Was it

laughter? Doesn't matter, it's gone.

Luther in the pitch-black vault. The GIGGLING is MUTED

but it is there. He is starting to perspire.

The woman flicks on the lights and as she does --

Luther as the burst of light hits him like a fist -- and

it's over.

Luther blinks, confused, looks around --

-- because it isn't over, he hasn't been caught.

The door to the vault is suddenly gone. Luther is

staring straight into the goddamn bedroom.

Because the door is a two way mirror. Now it's as if he

was watching the bedroom on a giant TV screen.

Just a few feet away, just outside the door.

Where things are clearly starting to heat up.

Luther moves to the armchair, sits.    There is nothing to

do now but wait. He settles in.

They are staring at each other.

We have seen the woman already -- she's CHRISTY SULLIVAN.

But the pictures in the corridor did not do her justice.

This is a fabulous-looking twenty-five-year-old woman.

Long, golden hair, a round face that sets off her deep

blue eyes, a tanned, curving body. A bare-shouldered

black dress. An expensive necklace.

One more thing:   she is staggering drunk.

The man is ALAN RICHMOND, wealthy, successful, handsome

and fit. Mid-forties. He wears an elegantly-cut suit.

Two additional points: (1) Richmond is clearly not the

husband in the wedding photo. (2) He is drunker than she

is.

Richmond carries a vodka bottle and two tumblers.     He

fills them, gives one to her.

They touch glasses.    Down the hatch.   Tight laughter.

He looks at her.

She looks at him.    There's a lot of sexual tension in the

air.

But now he begins looking around, checking things out.

She spots this.

He nods then, more at ease.    And he blows her a kiss.

She catches it -- and now she starts to parade for him.

Her body moving very slowly.

He pours himself another shot, chugs it, watches.     Now --

Luther suddenly terrified and we find out why.

Christy, fumbling with her necklace, looks across the

room --

What she's looking at:     the side table with the remote

that opens the vault.

Luther, frozen, as Christy starts toward the table.

The table and the remote waiting there.

Luther, mouth dry...

Christy. She smiles in acknowledgement and they move

onto the bed. She pushes him down and straddles him.

Richmond, from her POINT OF VIEW -- a wonderfully-

handsome man.

Christy, from his POINT OF VIEW. A glorious, vibrant

young woman. She smiles, touches her lips to a finger,

reaches out, touches the finger to his mouth.

It's a sweet moment.

They smile.

Then he reaches up, and without a word, grabs her breasts

and squeezes and twists them brutally and Christy is

shocked and she tries to make him stop but he won't, and

she cries out in pain but he still won't stop so she

slaps him in the face. He slaps her back, viciously,

right in the mouth and now there is blood mixing with her

lipstick and she rolls off the bed onto the floor.

Christy sits there stunned.

And on that --

Richmond, standing now, reaches down to help her up.

Christy hesitates, finally takes his hand and as soon as

she is on her feet --

Christy, kicking him with all she has, in the stomach.

Luther, silently applauding.

Richmond, the air momentarily out of him,  falling

drunkenly to the floor, stunned for just  a moment and

clearly in pain, but he is a big man and  he is strong and

he grabs her ankle, yanks, and then both  are laboring on

the floor and Christy kicks him again and  again --

-- but he will not release her ankle.   Each kick only

inflames his drunken rage.

And now they both try and stand.

Neither one does it gracefully, neither one does it

quickly, but Richmond gets there first and as soon as he

is on his feet he begins to strangle her.

Christy, gasping, terrified, she claws at his arms, her

fingers scratching deeply --

-- but he will not let go.

She twists and jerks her body --

-- no good -- he continues to tighten his grip on her

throat --

-- and spreads his legs for better balance.

The bed table, as Christy, beyond desperation reaches

around for something, anything -- her fingers finally

close on the letter opener and in one wild stroke, she

slashes his right arm.

Now he lets go.    And stares, stunned, at his bleeding

arm.

Then he crunches her flush in the   mouth, a brutal blow,

and blood pours from her nose and   mouth and if she

weren't so scared, maybe it would   have stopped her, but

it doesn't -- because somehow she   manages to maintain

balance --

-- and knees him all she has, in the nuts.

It's over -- Richmond falls to the floor, helpless.       He

lies on his back, holding his crotch.

But it isn't over. Christy, blood pouring down her face,

stands over him, the letter opener still tight in her

hand.

And in her eyes you can see it, the homicidal rage --

-- and she drops to her knees beside him --

-- and Richmond can only lie there, watching her --

-- and she gets a better grip on the letter opener --

-- and Richmond still only lies there, watching her --

-- and she raises the letter opener slowly very high

above her head, the point aimed at his heart --

-- and Richmond screams one time --

-- and as Christy starts to kill him, two well-dressed

men in business suits burst through the bedroom doorway,

GUNS in their hands, and they BLOW HER BRAINS OUT before

the opener reaches Richmond's heart...

Luther, in SLOW MOTION and this is what he does --

-- he reels back in the chair, eyes wide, jaw slack,

mouth open --

-- this is a man who has seen everything but nothing has

prepared him for this --

-- his arms flop over the arms of the chair, his body

loses strength, he tries to look away, can't --

-- and this is what he sees --

Christy, fighting for another instant of life --

-- no chance --

-- the two bullets have shattered her brain, her eyes

roll up into her head, the letter opener drops to the

rug, she collapses like a rag doll --

-- and blood is everywhere.

Luther. Back in regular motion now.    Pale, barely able

to breathe.

The two well-dressed men in business suits.

BILL BURTON is the more formidable. Mid-40s, he looks

like a retired tight end. No body fat. Intimidating.

But right now he is shaking and he can't stop it. He

puts his gun away, goes to Richmond.

TIM COLLIN is closing in on 30. Handsome. In wonderful

shape. Burton is more physical, Collin more lethal. He

puts his gun away, goes to Christy.

Richmond is trying to sit. He is as drunk as before but

now he is also close to shock. He reaches over, manages

to pick up the bloody letter opener.

Collin, by the body, nods.

His words are efficient but clearly, he has been rocked.

Richmond, staring stupidly at the letter opener. He

drops it back to the floor, tries to stand, can't.

Burton helps him back to the bed. Which is when he

passes out cold.

Burton and Collin look at each other now.

Luther, staring at it all. The shock is still there but

so is something new: anger. And on that --

GLORIA RUSSELL moving through the bedroom door.

Russell's 40, well-dressed, attractive and very smart.

Now she sees what's happened, stops dead.

Now she moves forward, looks at Burton and Collin.    It's

very clear from the outset: these three are not

friendly.

Luther in the closet.    He nods.

Burton and Collin nod, too.

Richmond, eyes barely open.

End of discussion.

A clock on the side table beside the three clickers.

There is the sound of a VACUUM -- it's later now.

The place is incredibly changed. Christy is lying as

before -- except now she is fully dressed. The bed has

been made with clean sheets. There is a large black

garbage bag that Collin shoves the sheets in, dumps in

Christy's jewelry. Burton is VACUUMING the rug.

Richmond is visible, still in terrible shape, finishing

putting his clothes on in the open master bedroom.

Everyone wears gloves.

Everything that is incriminating is gone --

-- except the letter opener, which has been put in a

clear plastic bag. Collin reaches for it, starts to dump

it in along with the sheets and the jewelry.

Collin glances at Burton, shrugs, hands it over. Russell

puts it in her handbag, puts the handbag on the bed table

when suddenly --

Richmond, careening into the room, wide-eyed, crying

out --

Russell, turning, shocked as Richmond bears down --

-- she holds out her arms for him, but he is staggering

and he collides hard with her, spins against the wall,

uses the bed table to try to steady himself.

Luther, stunned, staring.

What he's staring at: the letter opener has spilled from

her open purse and fallen behind the bed, out of sight.

Russell, calm, going to Richmond, starting to lead him

from the room --

She gestures to leave.

Burton and Collin finish up -- Collin grabs the large

plastic bag. Burton glances around one final time and

backs toward the door, vacuuming carefully. Then --

Collin stops dead.   He stares across at the bed table.

Luther, holding his breath.

In reply, Collin dashes back toward the bed table, grabs

Russell's purse, snaps it shut, tucks it under one arm

and leaves.

Burton flicks the light out, closes the door.

The room is lit by moonlight now. Christy looks

beautiful and still. HOLD for a moment.

It's open and Russell leads a staggering Richmond

outside. Two dark Towncars are parked in the driveway.

Burton is behind them, turning off all lights. Collin is

last, with Russell's purse, the garbage bag. As he

follows them outside, he closes the front door firmly --

it makes a loud, solid sound.

The sound is barely audible.   He has been looking at his

watch --

The watch face is illuminated in the darkness. The

second hand is fifteen seconds away from the top.

Luther takes a deep breath, waits in silence.

The WATCH face:   the sound is loud, like "60 Minutes."

Burton and Russell moving with Richmond toward one of the

cars. Burton takes the man in his arms, leaving Russell

free to open the back door.

Collin dumps the plastic bag into the trunk, shuts it,

moves quickly so that he can get a decent view of the

road.

The road in front of the house. Empty. Collin hurries

to the Towncar where Burton is struggling to get Richmond

comfortably stretched out on the back seat.

The second hand on Luther's watch hits the top and he

moves into action.

-- He points the clicker at the door --

-- the door starts to swing open --

-- Luther, backpack in hand, strides quickly into the

bedroom, turns, points the clicker again and as the door

starts to swing shut -- Luther carefully tosses the

clicker back inside.

as the clicker lands -- dead-solid perfect --

Luther, in the bedroom, moving to the nightstand,

carrying his backpack --

-- he slows as he circles the body of Christy Sullivan,

looks sadly down at her, continues on as we MOVE TO...

