CREDITS

Still-life tableaus. Lawford, N.H., a town of fifty buildings

on a glacial ridge, neither mountain nor plateau. Developed

as 1880's forestland, discarded in the Depression. Winter

has set in. Halloween day. Snowy fields yield to overcast

skies: oppressive, horizonless, flourescent.

-- Wickham's Restaurant. Where Route 29 bends. 24-hour diner.

Margie Fogg works here.

-- Trailer park in shadow of Parker Mountain. Home of Wade

Whitehouse.

-- Toby's Inn. Roadhouse three miles from town on the river

side of Route 29. Everything not tied down ends up here.

-- Glen Whitehouse farm. White clapboard.

-- First Congregational Church. North on the Common from

City Hall.

-- LaRiviere Co. Ramshackle well-digging firm embarrassingly

near the town center. Wade works here.

-- Merritt's Shell Station. Cinder-block.

-- Alma Pittman's house. Like so many others.

-- Town Hall.

ROLFE WHITEHOUSE'S VOICE, thirtiesh, articulate, speaks over

credit tableaus:

-- Route 29 tableau dissolves to night. A pale green police

Ford Fairlane drives past.

END CREDITS

INT./EXT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT

WADE WHITEHOUSE, driving, sits beside JILL, his daughter,

ten years-old, wearing a black-and-yellow tiger plastic mask.

Wade watches boys in the headlights, lights cigarette.

Wade grimaces, holds his jaw. The Fairlane swerves around

broken pumpkins under a caution light.

Wade looks at her, wanting to lift her mask, see her face.

EXT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

The Fairlane approaches Town Hall, a square two-story building

on the north side of the Common. Exhaust billows from idling

cars as parents and children come and go.

INT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

Clowns, tramps, angels and vampires fill the brightly lit

room. Parents watch from the walls as GORDON LARIVIERE, a

beefy fiftiesh man with a silver flat-top, announces the

costume contest. Wade nods to various townspeople.

Jill steps forward, retreats. Wade looks at her flaxen hair,

her blue sneakers protruding from her pathetic costume. His

heart aches he loves her so.

Wade inches her toward the circle of children. Gordon spots

them:

Jill in the spotlight, joins the costumed children. A former

classmate calls her name. Wade, relieved, watches, then steps

outside for a smoke.

EXT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

Wade steps outside, lights a cigarette. JACK HEWITT, 23,

clean-cut, handsome, cocky, stands with CHICK WARD and FRANKIE

LACOY, local boys.

Jack stops over to his double-parked burgandy pickup, removes

a Browning BAR .30/06 with a scope, hands it to Wade.

INT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

On stage, LaRiviere arranges the contest winners. A fairy

godmother with a wand beams while, nearby, a hobo writhes in

his mother's grip -- a hard loser.

Wade looks for Jill, first among the winners, then among the

losers; she's nowhere to be found. He heads toward a hall

leading to the restrooms.

Jill stands alone in the corner next to the pay phone, tiny,

forlorn. Wade realizes at once he was wrong to leave her

before she had found a friend.

EXT. POLICE OFFICE - NIGHT

Wade leads her to a frosted-glass door reading "POLICE",

enters. Inside, he flips on flourescent light, dials the

desk phone. More utility room than office.

He waits. There's no answer. Jill looks down.

Jill sits in a chair facing the dark window pane.

Wade Whitehouse stalks out.

EXT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

Wade steps outside, notices Jack Hewitt and his kewpie-doll

girlfriend HETTIE, 20, sitting in the cab of his double-parked

pickup, sharing a joint, talking to LaCoy alongside.

LaCoy laughs: that Jack Hewitt, some guy. Wade holds his

aching jaw. He looks at Jack's young athletic body, his pretty

girlfriend, envies him.

Wade looks up to the window where Jill waits, walks around

the front of the truck, gets in.

INT./EXT. JACK'S TRUCK - NIGHT

Jack's high-bodied pickup growls in low gear as it drives

past Merritt's Shell station toward Saddleback Ridge. Jack

lowers the radio as Wade asks him about deer season; Hettie

leans forward to hear the music.

Wade grimaces as he passes the joint back.

A car flashes past.

Jack brakes, wheels the 4x4 around, heads back to town.

EXT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

Most parents have left or are leaving with their costumed

children. Hewitt's burgundy pickup breaks alongside the Audi.

Wade swings open the passenger door, jumps to the ground:

LILLIAN, 40, attractive in an ankle-length hooded coat.

Whatever pose Wade strikes, she strikes the opposite. Her

dress and demeanor set her apart.

Jack and Hettie neck inside the cab.

Jill at the window in her tiger mask. Lillian waves; Jill

motions she'll be down.

HORNER, 45, Lillian's new husband, thin with thinning hair

and a Tyrolean hat, sees Jill at the entrance and heads toward

her.

Horner greets Jill, walks her to the silver Audi. Passing

parents, listening, give Wade a wide berth.

Horner opens the car door for Jill, shuts it. Wade shoves

him:

Horner's hat falls. Lillian, icy, stares at Wade. He backs

off. Wade sometimes wonders: how'd Lillian Pittman of Lawford,

N.H., get so much class?

Horner sits behind the wheel. Lillian silently stares Wade

up and down, gets in the car beside Jill. The automatic locks

latch as the Audi drives away. Its taillights merge with

vanishing traffic.

Wade looks down, picks up Horner's dark green Tyrolean hat,

examines it, as if unsure of its function.

Wade walks toward Town Hall. MARGIE FOGG, exiting, greets

him:

NICK WICKHAM, 45, Marg's boss, passes by:

Wade, lost in thought, continues toward Town Hall. At the

door, LaRiviere, one of the last to leave, eyes him. Wade

tosses Horner's hat inside.

Wade nods as he lights a cigarette. Alone, he watches the

last cars pull out. He holds his jaw.

EXT. WADE'S TRAILER HOME - DAWN

Pre-dawn light silhouettes a dozen weather-beaten mobile

homes set off Route 29. Snow continues to fall. A sheet of

white stretches down Parker mountain.

INT. WADE'S TRAILER - DAWN

6:40. A clock radio pierces the silence with classic rock.

Wade Whitehouse rolls over, runs his tongue across mossy

teeth, shuts off the music. He looks out the window, grunts:

"Shit!" He steps over to the phone by the frayed plaid couch,

dials.

Wade's trailer is surprisingly neat, considering its owner

smokes too much, drinks too much, eats take-out and rarely

cleans up.

EXT. WADE'S TRAILER HOME EARLY - MORNING

Jack Hewitt's 4x4 passes Wade's trailer, continues up 29.

Tire chains splice the path.

EXT. JACK'S TRUCK EARLY - MORNING

Jack behind the wheel. Beside him EVAN TWOMBLEY, 60, fleshy,

Irish, wearing brand new scarlet wool pants, jacket and cap.

He feeds on the misfortunes of others.

Hewitt looks at Twombley's rifle: a Winchester M-94 pump-

action, custom carved stock and not a scratch on it. Never

fired, at least not by Twombley.

The pickup disappears behind a curve of pine and spruce trees.

EXT. SCHOOL - MORNING

Wade Whitehouse, wearing a reflective vest, waves a district

school bus into the parking lot. Noisy, jostling grade

schoolers emerge from the bus. Jill's former classmates.

Straight as a statue, Wade holds back traffic. Cars and trucks

are backed up on the unplowed road. Horns honk and bleat; a

woman's voice yells, "Whitehouse, we 'ain't got all day!"

Wade, daydreaming, seems oblivious to the commotion. Oblivious --

or just plum contrary.

A shiny black BMW approaches, speeding, passing traffic on

the shoulder. A man and a woman in a fur coat sit in front,

two children in back. Whitehouse waves for it to stop.

The BMW accelerates through the intersection, ignoring Wade

and the traffic. It whizzes past, spinning Wade, and is

quickly up the road, spewing ice and exhaust. Wade slips to

one knee. Honking ensues; every car goes where it wishes.

Wade, brushing off snow, follows the last bus as it pulls

in. LUGENE BROOKS, 60, school principal, rushes over:

Wade sets his face, thinking.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Snowprints lead from Jack's pickup to where he and Twombley

walk, guns pointed skyward. They enter a line of trees.

Jack watches Twombley walk ahead of him, wrapped like a huge

infant in red bunting, crunching twigs underfoot. He looks

from side to side, checks his gun, returns to watching

Twombley. They're alone.

Twombley nods, slips, thumps to the ground. His rifle lands

silently.

Jack sprints over, helps him up, safety latches the

Winchester. Hands it back.

Jack finds a path, one eye on Twombley:

Jack waits for Twombley as they enter a meadow. Jack aims

his rifle at Twombley as he approaches.

Jack aims away, following an imaginary bird. Twombley steps

alongside.

EXT. LARIVIERE CO. - DAY

Milky sky flatters LaRiviere Co., a sprawl of well-digging,

septic and snow plow equipment. Billboard declaimes:

"LARIVIERE CO. -- OUR BUSINESS IS GOING IN THE HOLE!" a motto

repeated on every truck and piece of equipment. Wade's green

Fairlane is parked outside the office.

INT. LARIVIERE CO. - DAY

Wade, puffing a cigarette, passes ELAINE'S (LaRiviere

secretary) desk, her large red "No Smoking" sign, eases into

an office modum chair. He unzips his jacket, slaps his cap

against his thigh, spraying drops of melted snow.

Gordon LaRiviere, speaking on the phone past a glass

partition, calls to Wade:

Wade exits toward the blue grader.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Jack and Twombley walk through fresh snow. The hillside's

thick with pine trees. Twombley, red-faced, puffing, leans

to speak to Hewitt. Jack lifts a finger to his lips:

Twombley peers over a slight cliff at a lumber trail twenty

feet below. Jack points:

Jack zig-zags down the incline, while Twombley, gun poised,

waddles along the edge.

Jack stops fifty feet away, watches Twombley, a cartoon

character. A stag pokes his nose through the pines, steps

into a clearing. Jack aims his rifle, looks at Twombley.

Twombley turns to see the buck, loses his footing, TUMBLES

down the twenty-foot cliff.

EXT. TOBY'S INN - DAY

An open cab grader ("Our Business Is Going In The Hole")

sits in the rutted lot outside Toby's, a beer joint with

fake wood siding and 24-hour neon sign.

A four-wheel drive plow with the LaRiviere motto pulls in,

parks beside the blue grader. JIMMY DAME, 40, gets out,

glances at the grader as he enters.

INT. TOBY'S INN - DAY

Jimmy joins Wade at the bar, calls for a beer. Frankie LaCoy

bullshits with two long-haired locals at a nearby table;

their conversation drifts in and out. Country music plays

through a broken juke box speaker. Wade touches his tooth,

grimaces.

Wade shrugs. LaCoy's conversation has caught his ear. He

turns to watch.

Wade's face as the story comes to life:

EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY (1964)

Thirty years before. GLEN WHITEHOUSE ("POP"), 42, pushes his

boys, Wade (13) and Rolfe (10), toward snow-covered lumps of

firewood behind the barn. He's drunk. The boys carry shovels

and a pickaxe.

His sons chip at the wood. Hopeless. Frozen solid.

Wade notices his mother, SALLY, watching from the window.

INT. TOBY'S INN - DAY

LaCoy roars with laughter.

Wade grabs his keys, walks over. Jimmy follows.

Wade and Jimmy head out.

EXT. BACKROAD - DAY

Wade, shivering in the open grader, plows a narrow winding

road. He lights a cigarette, exhales steamy smoke. LaCoy's

laugh triggers a memory:

INT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY (1964)

The flashback continues: Glen Whitehouse pushes his sons

inside. Sally steps from sight. Out back, the firewood lies

frozen amid futile shovel marks.

Pop, swigging Canadian Club, turns:

Rolfe runs from the room screaming, "Mom!"

EXT. WICKHAM'S - DAY

The town's 24-hour restaurant. A bright new sign reads: "Home

Made Cooking." Wade's grader out front.

INT. WICKHAM'S - DAY

Wade, eating lunch at the counter, talks with Nick Wickham:

Margie Fogg heads over, sits:

Nick goes back to work.

Wade's eyes well up.

Wade and Margie stand. She wants to kiss him.

Wade meets Nick halfway to the door.

Margie steps over as Wade exits.

EXT. LARIVIERE CO. - DAY

Elaine looks up from her desk as Wade pulls the grader into

the lot, jumps out, heads for his car. Laviviere stands

outside.

They head for LaRiviere's blue 4x4 Dodge.

INT./EXT. LARIVIERE'S PICKUP - DAY

Gordon and Wade drive up the same road Jack took Twombley.

Wade fiddles with the CB. No use: static.

LaRiviere grunts disapproval as Wade slips the butt out his

window.

Ahead, they see flashing lights and cars. A white emergency

vehicle passes, jolting the pickup.

EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE - DAY

Wade pulls behind three state trooper cars. Jack stands joking

with the TROOPERS, one of whom holds a German shepherd on a

leash. LaRiviere and Wade jump out. Jack, suddenly serious,

turns to LaRiviere:

Wade walks over to trooper ASA BROWN, pets the shepherd.

Brown walks off with shepherd.

Wade watches LaRiviere get into his pickup, drive off.

They walk over to Jack's burgundy pickup. Wade eyes the rifles

in the gun rack.

INT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Late. Wade Whitehouse, lying in bed with an icepack on his

cheek, talks on the phone:

EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE - DAY

Wade's theory -- in black-and-white: Twombley's footing slips.

Jack turns to watch. Twombley's gun hits frozen rocks, fires,

blows a hole through his chest.

INT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE - DAY

Another theory: Black-and-white. Jack sees a figure run from

Twombley's body.

INT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Wade shifts the phone from ear to ear:

EXT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

TIMECUT: mobile homes.

INT. WADE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Sound of GUNSHOT.

EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY

Wade's bubble-top Fairlane drives through snow covered hills.

EXT. MEL GORDON'S HOUSE - DAY

The Fairlane is parked outside a substantial summer house

with a wide porch and frozen pond. The "speeding" BMW in the

drive. Wade knocks on the front door. An 8 year-old boy

answers the door. Wade speaks; the boy goes back inside.

MRS. GORDON, 30, delicate, beautiful, wearing a dark green

robe, comes to the door. Her eyes are red-rimmed. Wade has

seen her before, but not this close. He feels awkward.

MEL GORDON, 40, dark-eyed, wearing a tartan robe, steps behind

his wife.

Mel folds his arms. His wife goes inside.

Mel Gordon moves Wade out of the door, slams it. Wade steps

away, looks back at the house. Mrs. Gordon watches him from

the window.

EXT. MARGIE FOGG'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A wood frame house off the main drag. Snowing.

INT. MARGIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Wade and Margie, post-coital:

EXT. ACCIDENT SCENE - DAY

Black-and-white. A further theory: Jack bends over the fallen

Twombley, holds a tarp to protect his chest from blood spray.

He shoots Twombley with his own gun.

INT. MARGIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Wade sits on the edge of the bed, sighs. Lapses into thought.

Margie caresses his back, kisses it. He winces.

Wade looks at her, brushes the hair off her face:

Wade walks naked to the kitchen, returns with two beers, one

for Marg. He gets in bed. She, thinking, sips:

He kisses her. His jaw winces in pain.

INT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAYBREAK (1964)

THE FLASHBACK CONTINUES:

Glen Whitehouse, plastered, yells at Wade, age 13:

Wade, frightened, retreats as Sally enters in her housecoat.

Glen reaches for the Canadian Club; Sally tries to block his

hand. Glen pulls his arm from hers, clipping her cheek with

the bottle.

Sally gasps, grabs her cheek.

Wade pushes between them, protecting his mother.

Pop clenches his fist. Wade vainly looks Rolfe's direction

for help.

Pop's fist comes crashing down. Wade raises his arms to

protect himself. Wade's arm bone CRACKS with the blow. Wade

grimaces in pain.

EXT. MARGIE FOGG'S HOUSE - DAY

Margie gets into Wade's idling Ford.

INT./EXT. WADE'S CAR - DAY

Wade, washed and changed, drives; Marg sits beside him. They

head north. Deer rifles echo from the woods.

EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Sun slants over Parker Mountain; they pull up. The house,

once white, is peeling. Polyurethane flaps over dark windows.

The 1960 red Ford pickup sits long frozen in the open barn.

They stamp their feet on the porch; Wade turns the knob.

Locked. It seems abandoned.

They round the house, try the back door. Wade knocks loudly.

GLEN WHITEHOUSE, 70, opens the door, stands inside. He wears

long underwear, stained woolen trousers, slippers.

INT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Glen shuffles toward the stove; they follow. He starts a

fire.

Pop goes to the bedroom.

Pop returns.

Wade, concerned, pushes open the BEDROOM door:

He steps inside. On the bed, Sally Whitehouse, wrapped in

blankets, lies dead. He walks over, beside the small electric

heater, touches her forehead. Her skin is chalk white.

Margie steps into the doorway. Pop joins:

Pop goes to the dresser, pours himself Canadian Club. Wade

opens his mother's mouth, attempts respiration.

EXT. ROLFE'S CAR - DAY

ROLFE WHITEHOUSE, 38, drives his four-door Toyota west:

through Massachusetts, toward New Hampshire. His face bespeaks

tolerance, objectivity -- in short, education. It's also

Wade's face.

EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Rolfe's Toyota sits with other cars.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Friends and relatives gather in the living room: Wade, Rolfe,

Glen, LaRiviere, Margie, an aging couple, REVEREND DOUGHTY,

30, thin, wearing glasses and an avocado-green suit.

No one moves. LaRiviere checks his watch. Wade shrugs:

Margie's face tells Rolfe he's touched on a sensitive subject.

Wade opens the frig, takes out another beer:

Rev. Doughty calls for Glen Whitehouse, who has been sitting,

silent, drinking, to join the others:

Wade, expressionless, looks at Rolfe. Rolfe, embarrassed,

trying to do the right thing, helps his father kneel beside

Rev. Doughty. The others join the circle.

Pop mutters something. Wade, Rolfe and Marg exchange glances.

He mutters louder:

He rises over LaRiviere, turns, exclaims:

Doughty freezes.

Pop knocks back a drink as the others stand.

Gordon and the couple file out. Doughty, Glen, Rolfe, Wade

and Margie remain.

Wade, eyes blazing, squares off. Son to father.

Wade stiffens. Pop cocks his fist. Marg, screaming, jumps

between them as Pop swings.

The old man bounces blows off Margie's arms and shoulders.

Wade pushes Marg aside, grabs his father in a bear hug and

walks him backwards, flat against the wall. Wade releases

him. Pop, frail, collapses to the floor. Wade kneels over

him:

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Townspeople and friends cluster around the gravesite: Pop,

LaRiviere, Jack and Hettie, LaCoy, Chub Merritt, Nick, Jimmy,

Lillian, Jill and Horner, Rolfe, Wade and Margie.

Rev. Doughty finishes. The mourners exchange farewells. Wade

looks at Lillian. Margie and Rolfe, escorting Wade's father,

let him be. He walks over, hugs Jill.

Lillian hesitates, shakes her head 'no.'

He kisses Jill, says goodbyes, walks back to Rolfe and Margie.

Ahead, LaRiviere walks with Jack.

EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Wade and Rolfe leave Margie and Pop in the kitchen as they

step out back.

They grab snow shovels propped against the porch, walk to

the barn. Firewood's stacked alongside.

INT. BARN - DAY

Shafts of light filter through the ramshackle structure. A

snow drift nearly buries Glen's red truck. Wade and Rolfe

break away the packed snow.

They finish clearing the snow. Wade gets in the truck, starts

the engine. Rolfe waits for Wade.

Wade opens the glove compartment, finds a bottle of Canadian

Club. He unscrews the cap.

The truck sputters, stops. Wade pulls the keys.

The sun is down. Wade tucks the keys in a knotted board.

Rolfe looks out: the cobalt sky has turned black.

They walk toward the house.

EXT. LARIVIERE CO. GARAGE - DAY

Wade walks in as Jack and Jimmy prepare to head out, their

drilling rig loaded with pipe. Gordon yells at Jack:

Jack opens the truck ashtray.

Hewitt trudges to the john.

LaRiviere smiles, goes to his office as Wade hangs his coat

in his locker. Jack cruises over.

Jack gets in the cab of the drilling truck. Wade follows.

Wade grins, goes to activate the door.

The drilling truck pulls out the garage, onto the road. From

the opposite direction a black BMW slows, enters. Mel Gordon.

Wade, all eyes and ears, watches. Mel Gordon parks in front

of the office, gets out. Elaine calls:

Wade flips the door switch. Mel Gordon and LaRiviere talk.

Yeah.

EXT. CONCORD - DAY

The South Main Street office of J. Battle Hand, lawyer.

Concord is a real town, with traffic, stores, people with

places to go.

INT. LAWYER'S OFFICE - DAY

J. BATTLE HAND, 60, sits in a wheel chair behind his desk.

Wade, uncomfortable in work clothes, tries not to show it.

Wade stands; Hand motors to the door. Wade puts his fingers

in his mouth. His tooth throbs.

EXT. LARIVIERE CO. - DAY

Fairlane squad car in its customary spot.

INT. LARIVIERE'S OFFICE - DAY

Wade and Gordon speak. LaRiviere is relaxed, open: a "new

Gordon."

Wade pulls out Bic, lights cigarette.

Wade smiles, exits.

EXT. RT. 29 - NIGHT

Wade, driving Gordon's 4x4 with running lights and roll bar,

takes 29 toward Pop's farm.

A pickup passes him: Jack Hewitt's burgundy Ford. Wade stops.

Jack turns up Parker Mountain -- the road to the accident

scene. Something's up.

Wade turns and follows. Jack's fresh tracks lead the way.

Hewitt is driving fast. Wade keeps up.

Jack, far ahead, approaches the accident scene. Stops. Night

has fallen.

Wade comes over a low rise, spots Jack's pickup. He kills

the lights, parks to block Jack's exit.

Silence. Footsteps in the snow. Wade watches, listens. What's

he doing? Looking for evidence?

The burgundy pickup engine suddenly ROARS -- Jack's back and

at the wheel -- the tires squeal, spit snow as he spins past

Wade.

Wade starts his engine, gives pursuit. The pickups gun their

engines, bumper to bumper, down mountain roads, lumber roads,

rocky trails. Wild headlamps their only guide.

EXT. POND - NIGHT

A trail turns sharply past a shallow beaver pond -- too

sharply for Jack. He crashes through a stand of skinny birches

straight out onto the pond. The pickup's momentum carries it

across the pond.

Wade drops into first gear, follows, his headlights reflecting

ice. He drives directly to Jack, bumper to bumper, headlight

to headlight. Jack sticks his head out:

Wade doesn't budge. Jack backs away; Wade inches forward.

Hewitt's trapped. Trees behind him. Neither truck has traction

on ice.

Jack steps out, swinging his fists wildly. Wade gets out.

Jacks grabs his rifle, points it:

Wade backs off.

Jack gets back in his pickup, maneuvers it slowly around the

Dodge, crosses the ice and is gone.

Wade stands in darkness. The only sound his idling truck,

the wind. Then a third sound -- the snap of ice. Ice cracks

ripple from the middle of the pond. Ice planes tip around

the truck.

LaRiviere's snazzy Dodge slips, descends, disappears.

Headlights glow under water, then go out. "Our Business Is

Going In The Hole."

Wade, alone in darkness, plops into the water, paddles to

shore. Freezing, he finds Jack's tire tracks in the snow. He

bangs his jaw.

EXT. WICKHAM'S - NIGHT

A car drops Wade off. "Home Made Cooking."

INT. WICKHAM'S - NIGHT

Wade enters the empty diner. His clothes frozen.

Wade goes to the kitchen. Glen Whitehouse, washing dishes

with Margie, looks up:

Wade's old man talks as he dresses:

Wade, redressed, enters:

Margie and Nick guide pere et fils to MARG'S CAR. Nick speaks

to her:

Marg drives off.

INT. MARGIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Wade leans close to his father, his breath on his:

Pop spits directly into Wade's face, raises his arm. Wade

catches it, twists it. Margie shrieks:

They do, glaring as they approach the farmhouse.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Wade looks in the bedroom, sees Margie sleeping, goes to the

bathroom.

He peers, stands before the sink, washes his hands slowly.

Drying his hands, he looks into the mirror, startled by the

image of his own face.

A phone conversation plays over:

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Wade sits alone in the darkened room, speaking on the phone.

His cigarette glows.

INT. LARIVIERE'S OFFICE - DAY

Wade's theory expanded: Jack and Gordon argue in the office.

An extension of Scene 55. Like Wade's other theories, in

black-and-white:

EXT. ALMA PITTMAN'S HOUSE - DAY

Wade drives Margie's car toward LaRiviere's. In his rear

view window he spots Chick Ward driving Chub Merritt's tow

truck, lights blinking, pulling LaRiviere's pickup like a

dead fish.

He pulls over, lets it pass. He's parked in front of Alma

Pittman's house. A sign on the lawn reads, "Alma Pittman,

Town Clerk."

He looks at the house, decides to go in. Wade walks up the

shoveled steps, knocks on the door. ALMA, 60, wearing plaid

shirt and slacks, greets him with a smile:

INT. ALMA PITTMAN'S HOUSE - DAY

They step into Alma's living room/office. She's been keeping

the town secrets for as long as anyone can remember.

They sit by her desk at the bay window. She studies him.

EXT. MERRITT'S STATION - DAY

Gordon LaRiviere examines his damaged pickup outside the

Shell station.

INT. ALMA PITTMAN'S HOUSE - DAY

Wade finishes:

Alma punches her computer. Dozens of items flash up.

She punches again: only three items.

INT. LARIVIERE'S OFFICE - DAY

Wade storms in, shouting. Jack and Jimmy choose donuts by

the file cabinet. LaRiviere's behind his desk. Wade's tooth

makes it hard for him to talk without pain:

Jack, combative, looks at Wade. Gordon stands before Jack

can speak:

Wade's phone conversation plays OVER as he goes to Margie's

car.

EXT. ROUTE 29/MERRITT'S - DAY

Phone conversation continues as Wade drives to Merritt's

Shell station.

CHICK WARD, 30, Chub Merritt's mechanic, greets Wade outside

the station. We join their conversation:

INT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Wade, open phone book in hand, walks back and forth speaking

into the receiver. Margie looks up from the KITCHEN table,

an old newspaper in front of her.

The other party has hung up. Margie stands, upset. Wade slams

the phone down.

Pop enters from outside with firewood, passes.

Margie's face falls. She retreats from the room as he speaks,

taking her coat and pocketbook. Wade and his old man, she

thinks: just the same.

Wade looks out the window and she gets in her car, drives

off.

Wade holds his inflamed jaw; he can hardly see straight. Pop

turns on the TV in the living room, boosts the volume.

Pop comes back in the room, gets the Canadian Club, pours

himself a drink.

Pop growls, goes back to wrestling on the TV. Wade walks to

the cabinet, removes a pair of pliers from the tool drawer,

goes toward the bathroom.

In the BATHROOM, Wade opens his mouth -- it hurts -- takes a

bite of whisky, sets the bottle on the toilet tank.

He looks at the stranger in the mirror, reaches inside his

mouth with the pliers. Prying his mouth open, Wade Whitehouse

locks the pliers onto a large molar in the back, squeezes

and pulls.

He steadies himself, pulls again, yanking the pliers from

his mouth. The bloody rotted tooth clatters in the sink. He

takes another bite of whisky.

Rolfe's voice plays over:

Wade takes another swig, sets the whisky bottle in the LIVING

ROOM beside the TV set. Wade and Pop exchange looks.

Wade exits through the KITCHEN, snatching his coat.

EXT. BARN - DAY

Wade spits blood into the snow as he grabs a gallon can of

gasoline from under the porch.

He crosses to the barn, prepares to pour the gas into the

beat-up red truck.

EXT. CONCORD - DAY

Wade's Ford pickup passes J. Battle Hand's office, keeps

going. Grass peeks through the snow at this lower altitude.

EXT. LILLIAN'S HOUSE - DAY

Wade parks the truck, walks past leafless bushes to a charcoal-

gray split-level with pink shutters. He pushes the door bell;

the first notes of "Frere Jacques" play.

Lillian opens the door; Jill's footsteps approach.

Jill returns, wearing parka and boots, heads out with her

father.

Wade and Jill approach the truck.

Wade opens the truck door. Jill climbs in with her overnight

bag, looks back to the door where Lillian watches.

INT./EXT. WADE'S TRUCK - DAY

The Ford heads north.

They stop for a light. Silence.

Pause. Wade looks over at Jill and realizes she is crying.

She shoves her clenched fists hard against her legs.

Jill looks away. Wade pulls a six-pack from under the seat,

pulls off a beer, takes a swig.

INT. WICKHAM'S - DAY

Wade and Jill enter Wickham's, crowded with out-of-state

hunters at the end of the deer season.

Wade, flaring, reaches across the counter and grabs Nick by

the shirtfront! Nick's arm knocks over a cup of coffee.

The diner goes silent. Hunters look up. Jill's face is white;

she starts to cry.

Wade looks over -- it takes him a moment to react -- bends

down, comforting her. He wipes her nose with a napkin.

They head for the door. Nick eases over:

Wade takes Jill's hand, exits.

EXT. TOWN HALL - DAY

Jill waits in the old red truck parked outside.

Wade emerges with cardboard boxes of office miscellany, rifles

laid across top. He shoves the boxes and guns into the back

of the pickup, gets in and drives off.

EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Wade and Jill pull up the drive, past Margie's car, into the

barn. Her trunk and two side doors are open.

Margie comes out back with a battered suitcase, goes to her

car. She's leaving. A plastic bag of clothes sits in the

trunk.

Wade and Jill get out, approach:

Jill, suitcase in hand, looking pathetic, tries to smile. A

sadness passes over Wade's face.

Margie, watching him, quivers, starts to cry. She drops her

suitcase, out of nowhere bawling like a baby.

Wade goes over, puts his arms around her, pats her back. His

face is racked. He, too, seems about to cry -- if he could.

In his arms Margie feels trapped, overwhelmed by Wade's

circumstances and terrible sadness. She pushes:

She struggles in Wade's grasp. Jill, frightened, wildly hits

him from behind:

Wade moves back like a bear, covering his face and arms.

Jill, near hysterical, keeps after him, arms and fists flying.

Wade stumbles backwards into the snow. Jill still swings.

Margie dashes to intervene as Wade swings his arms wide.

Jill flies into Marg. Her nose is bleeding. Wade's caught

her across the mouth and nose. She takes cover behind Margie,

crying.

Margie and Jill stand side by side, saying nothing. Wade

looks up stunned, as if hit by a rock. Marg slowly backs

away, her arms behind her holding Jill.

Marg eases Jill into the front seat, closes the door, edges

around the car slamming the trunk and gets into the driver's

seat. Wade stands.

She closes the front door, starts the car. She backs out the

drive.

In her rear view mirror she sees the image of Wade receding,

standing frozen, staring down at the snow. Pop emerges from

the house, looks at his son, grinning.

Wade looks at his old man, that dumb devilish grin plastered

on his father's face. Glen Whitehouse holds an empty whiskey

bottle like a pistol.

Hunters' gunshots echo in the distance.

Pop holds up the bottle, pretends to fire it at Wade.

Wade waves his old man off, trudges toward the barn.

Wade walks from the glistening snow into the dark barn.

INT. BARN - DAY

Wade unloads the cardboard boxes filled with his office

belongings from the back of the truck and sets them on the

ground. He gathers up his rifles.

Suddenly! A whiskey bottle SLAMS against the back of his

head. He drops to his knees, the guns scatter. He looks up

with child's fear and guilt at his father.

Glen Whitehouse hovers over him, huge and ferocious: a

colossus, lifting the bottle like a jawbone.

Wade cringes, scrambles for the dropped rifle. He grabs it

by the barrel and, twisting around, swings it in a slow motion

arc, smashing the edge of the wood stock against his father's

head. A cold hard CRACK of bone.

Glen Whitehouse -- shriveled again, no longer mythic -- flies

back like a stuffed dummy. He collapses beside the empty

C.C. bottle.

Wade, bleeding from the head, stands, staggers off Pop's

inert body, aims his rifle at the old man's face.

Wade bolts the rifle, flicks off the safety, fires -- a loud

CLICK. The gun's empty.

He kneels down, lovingly touches the old man's face, caresses

his lips, cheeks, nose, brows, smoothes back his stiff gray

hair.

Pop's eyes are clouded. Blood suddenly drips from his ear to

the ground.

Wade rests the rifle against the truck. He bends over, slips

his hands under his father's body, lifts him up. He carries

Pop over to the workbench, lays him out.

Groping beneath the bench, Wade finds the kerosene lamp. He

unscrews it, pours kerosene the length of Pop's body.

Wade takes out his cigarette lighter, ignites it, holds it

for a moment, places it to Glen Whitehouse.

Fire spreads the length of Pop's body, bursting like a shroud

of yellow flame. The oil-stained bench crackles; flames shoot

up the old weathered wall.

Burning flesh and heat drive Wade backwards.

EXT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Wade stands in snow and sunlight. The entire barn is engulfed

in flames. Black smoke billows through the clear winter sky.

Inside Glen Whitehouse, a pyre, burns.

EXT. PARKER MOUNTAIN - DAY

Pop's red truck is parked behind Jack Hewitt's 4x4 on a snow-

banked road. Wade, hunting rifle pointed up, traces Jack's

footsteps down the slope of the mountain.

Wade spots Jack poised in a spruce grove, watching for deer.

Wade bolts his rifle, releases the safety, aims and FIRES.

Jack, hit in the chest, falls bleeding between trees. Blood

stains the snow.

INT. WHITEHOUSE FARM - DAY

Camera glides from room to room, glimpsing details, fragments

of former times, as if this were an historical site or

memorial. The walls resonate: lives were molded here.

Out a window, workers gather charred timbers from the barn,

throw them on a truck.

