<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Alien Nation - by Rochne O'Bannon Rewrite by James Cameron

FADE IN:

EXT.  MOJAVE DESERT - DAY (TELEVISION IMAGE)

A LONG LENS SHOT of a far distant metallic object hovering

just above the ground -- maybe two or three miles away.

The heat waves and the light refraction off the desert-

scape make the object undulate rhythmically, keeping its

true shape and appearance indistinct.

The VIDEO CAMERA recording this scene zooms back, then

pans over -- revealing a semicircle of US Army vehicles

and personnel.  Army Engineers with their tripod-mounted

scopes and binoculars are shoulder to shoulder with the

armed infantry.  Everyone stares off at the same point on

the horizon.  Waiting.

The VIDEO CAMERA movements are HANDHELD, unsteady, as it

moves through the line of Army personnel to reveal a

second, less organized semicircle of observers fifty yards

behind the Army.  LOCALS from nearby towns perch in truck

beds and on car roofs, Budweiser and Fritos at hand, eyes

glued to the distant object.

The VIDEO CAMERA image climbs up onto the roof of a parked

local TV van, finds the object again in the distance,

zooms in, and waits, like everyone else.

Abruptly the VIDEO IMAGE contracts, becoming a box

CHROMAKEYED behind CNN reporter DUNCAN CRAIS.

We PULL BACK from a large television set to reveal...

INT.  A CROWDED BAR - LOS ANGELES - NIGHT

The Hollowpoint Lounge -- a cop bar.

The off-duty uniformed and plainclothes cops are mostly

ignoring the TV, except for two detectives, FEDORCHUK and

ALTEREZ, who are waiting for the ball scores.

Others laugh.

ON THE TV SCREEN, an on-location interview with a CAL-TECH

PROFESSOR comes up.  Her name and title appear across the

bottom of the screen.

The CNN reporter, Duncan Crais, appears again.

A dishwasher tray filled with beer glasses CUTS ACROSS

FRAME, and we PAN WITH IT as it is slammed down on the

countertop.

Now an interview with a FRESNO HOUSEWIFE standing outside

a supermarket comes on the TV SCREEN.

WIDER

revealing a MASSIVE ALIEN FIGURE in a filthy white

busboy's uniform.  His back is to us as he picks up two

trays from the counter.  The bartender is dwarfed by this

Newcomer, but works around him without apparent concern.

Fedorchuk addresses the alien busboy.

The Newcomer turns -- his face is humanoid, but

disturbingly alien.

The cops at the bar crack up.  Henry looks at Fedorchuk --

his eyes carrying no malice... or pain.  He merely blinks.

INT./ EXT.  SLUG-MOBILE - STREET - NIGHT

An explosion of color and movement as OPENING TITLES PLAY

very quickly.  We're TRAVELING the streets in a n.d.

sedan, getting MOVING GLIMPSES of the aliens living among

us now:

-- A coffee shop where aliens eat at some window tables.

-- A Newcomer leaving a night school with an armload of

books.

-- A city park where a number of alien families have

gathered to play some arcane alien game.

-- A billboard for Pepsi featuring an alien.

-- The sedan has pulled to a stop at a red light.

Suddenly a hand thumps against the glass next to Sykes'

head... and alien hand.  Sykes jumps.  It's a NEWCOMER

DERELICT standing there, weaving, mumbling in his own

language.  In one filthy hand holds a quart carton of

milk.  We know immediately what he wants.  Sykes rolls

down the window.

Sykes gets a whiff of the derelict's breath as the light

changes and the sedan pulls away, leaving him in the

street.  Sykes grimaces at the smell.

-- Aliens hanging around outside their homes.

-- Alien hookers plying their trade.

-- A Newcomer lowrider pulls up beside the slug-mobile.

-- An alien couple exit a theater playing "Terminator

III".

-- An alien wig shop.

ANGLE

TITLES END, and we start to PULL BACK into the slug-mobile

and HEAR:

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

The dashboard is littered with fast-food detritus and two

coffees in styrofoam cups making fog circles on the

windshield.  A hand picks up one of the coffees and we

FOLLOW IT to a face, a forty-year-old cop face that's seen

some wear and tear -- behind the wheel is MATT SYKES.

Beside him is his partner of nine years, BILL TUGGLE.

Tuggle expertly munches on a slice of pizza as he talks.

Sykes stares out the window, wallowing in his pissed-off

mood.  Then he spots something that twinges his street-cop

radar.

THROUGH THE WINDOW Tuggle sees what Sykes sees: two ALIENS

in long coats moving down the sidewalk, entering a mom-

and-pop mini-mart on the corner.  One of them wears dark

glasses and a red bandana (KIPLING): the other has on a

black vinyl raincoat.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Sykes continues up a quarter of a block, pulls to the curb

among other parked cars.

INT.  SEDAN - NIGHT

Sykes is already pulling his gun.  Tuggle quickly reaches

for the radio in the glovebox.

Impulsive Sykes is already opening his door and climbing

out.

Tuggle drops the radio mike and follows Sykes as the Radio

Dispatcher confirms the call.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

The two cops, guns in hand, move along the row of parked

cars across the street from the mini-mart.  Through the

store window they see the old alien PROPRIETOR behind the

counter.  His eyes go wide as Kipling whips back his coat

and yanks out a short combat pump-shotgun and aims it

right at him.  The Raincoat alien pulls an identical gun

and covers the door.

Sykes and Tuggle react to the firepower inside.

Through the store window the robbery continues in

pantomime.  Kipling gestures viciously with the shotgun,

yelling orders in the alien language.  The Proprietor is

quickly filling a paper bag with cash from the register.

The PROPRIETOR'S WIFE, a middle-aged alien woman, stands

in the doorway from the back, frozen in fear.  The

Raincoat alien dances from foot to foot, antsy, wired.

Sykes and Tuggle crouch at the car directly across the

street from the store entrance.

Tuggle leaves the cover provided by the car, runs cater-

corner across the intersection.

Through the store window Sykes sees Kipling grab the bag

of cash, shove it in his coat pocket.  Bills fall out, but

he doesn't care.  Then, without warning, Kipling whips up

the twelve gauge and blows a hole in the Proprietor's

chest!  The Proprietor slams back against the shelves,

slides to the floor.  Kipling leans over the counter and

FIRES another round into the Proprietor.

Tuggle is almost across the street when he hears the

shots.

The human DRIVER of the getaway car (parked at the curb a

few doors down from the mini-mart) glances up, spots

Tuggle.  He leans on the HORN, reaches for a machine

pistol on the seat next to him.

INT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT

Kipling and Raincoat alien react to the horn honk.  They

spot Tuggle through the store window and open fire --

BLASTING THROUGH THE GLASS.

A civilian car enters the intersection.  The engine is hit

by shotgun fire, and the car skids to a stop in the

intersection, steam rising from the radiator.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Tuggle dives behind a lamp post.

The Driver is out of the car now, brings up the machine

pistol to fire at Tuggle.  Sykes sees this and opens fire

at the Driver.  The Driver turns and fires at Sykes.

Sykes ducks down, and the car he's hiding behind is

sprayed with bullets.

A forty-foot moving van pulls down the street between

Sykes and the Driver.  Once the truck is past, Sykes is

standing behind the bullet-riddled car, gun ready.  He

rapid-fires -- creaming the human Driver.

Tuggle is pinned down behind the thin lamp post by the

shotgun fire from Kipling and Raincoat alien.

Sykes rises and runs across the street toward the getaway

car, firing toward the store as he goes.

Kipling and Raincoat dodge behind cover.

Tuggle seizes the opportunity, jumps from behind the lamp

post and runs to the stalled civilian car.  He slides

across the hood and drops behind the car for cover.

Tuggle slowly pokes his head up to peer through the car

window.  His gaze is met by the face of the OLD MAN driver

who is still inside the car.

Sykes doesn't have a clear firing line on the aliens in

the store.  As he considers his next move--

Tuggle fires at the two aliens.  They return fire and he

slides down to safety behind the car.  Or so he thinks.

Glass rains down on him as the car windows are cremated by

the shotgun blasts.  He flinches as another blast hits the

car.  He looks over.  There's a big exit hole in the

fender beside him.  THE SHOT WENT RIGHT THROUGH THE CAR.

Another exit hole is BLASTED, inches from his shoulder.

Panicked, he scrambles along the side of the car -- BLASTS

and exit holes following him until he reaches the front of

the car.  He has nowhere left to go and--

-- a BLAST comes through the car and catches him squarely

in the chest throwing him back onto the street.

Sykes' head jerks around -- in time to see his partner of

nine years blown away.

Kipling keeps firing in Tuggle's direction until his

shotgun CLICKS empty.

INT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT

Kipling grabs Raincoat and throws him toward the back exit

of the store.  The shotgun falls from Raincoat's hands.

The two of them run out the back.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Sykes runs to Tuggle's spread-eagled body.  One glance is

enough.  Nobody ever looked deader.

He stares, shocked and incredulous.  He can't find a way

to think or feel about this.  Then we see him going crazy

right before our eyes, the rage revving.  He takes off

toward the store as SIRENS are HEARD rapidly approaching

in background.

INT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT

Sykes moves through like a locomotive skidding on broken

glass, bangs through the exit.

EXT.  ALLEY - NIGHT

Sykes catches sight of the two aliens just as they round

the corner at the far end of the alley.  He takes off,

quickly cranking up to full speed.

EXT.  BACK STREET - NIGHT

Sykes rounds the corner.  Doesn't see them anymore.  He

slows... moves along this street with some caution.  Lots

of shadows, lots of hiding places.  Sykes HEARS a NOISE,

looks up... just in time to see Raincoat on a high, huge

billboard.  He cuts loose with the shotgun.  Sykes dives.

Huge chunks of the crate he dives behind fly off into the

night.  Sykes, on his belly, scrambles deeper among the

crates.

Raincoat's shotgun CLICKS empty now.  He drops it, swings

down off the fire escape, runs off.

Sykes is up again in a flash, pounding after him.

EXT.  TUNNEL STREET - NIGHT

Sykes rounds this second corner, races down the street.

The only route they could've taken is through a tunnel up

ahead.  Sykes approaches the tunnel, all senses wide open.

INT.  TUNNEL - NIGHT

The murkiness of the tunnel engulfs him as he moves

through the mouth.  He tries to control his breathing so

he can hear.  The only SOUND is his own shoes scuffing

along the asphalt.

Then he HEARS -- another set of FOOTSTEPS.  Rapid

footsteps, coming toward him, ECHOING.  He can't tell from

which direction!  He spins, just as a LARGE SHAPE lunges

for him with an alien CRY.

It's the wired Raincoat alien.  Sykes gets his gun up just

in time and FIRES -- once, twice, three times.  Raincoat

alien is knocked backwards to the wet asphalt by the

blasts.  Sykes approaches the body slowly.  With an

inhuman ROAR, the alien snaps forward, lunging at Sykes

with outstretched arms.  Sykes jumps back, startled, and

FIRES twice more at the pale figure.  Raincoat goes down

and stays down.

Sykes relaxes for the briefest moment.  Then he HEARS

it... a distinctive CLICKING SOUND, metal on metal.  Sykes

looks up and -- Kipling drops down on him from directly

above!  Sykes goes down in a heap.  He's managed to hold

onto the gun and as Kipling comes for him, he swings the

gun hand around.  Kipling sees it, lashes out, slamming

the gun from Sykes' hand.  Sykes tries to get to his feet,

but the alien grabs him and flings him down the tunnel.

A SIREN is HEARD approaching in background.

Kipling moves in to deliver the coup de grace.  As he

draws near, Sykes HEARS that distinctive CLICKING SOUND

again.

SYKES' P.O.V.

Though his vision is BLURRED, Sykes still gets a good look

at an exotic silver bracelet on the alien's wrist.  The

strands of this bracelet are what make the CLINKING NOISE.

ANGLE

The alien rears back, and as he does, the approaching

SIREN suddenly WAILS louder as a backup patrol car swings

onto the street heading this way.  Kipling sees this and

leaves Sykes, running off down the dark tunnel.

ON SYKES

dazed, struggling to rise.  WE HEAR running FOOTSTEPS

approaching.  Sykes turns, his eyes wild and unfocused.

SYKES' P.O.V.

An OUT-OF-FOCUS ALIEN FACE looming over him.

ANGLE

Sykes whips around in a roundhouse swing with all his

weight on it, pistoning his fist straight into the alien

face.  The alien, caught by surprise and off balance,

sprawls backward OUT OF FRAME.  Sykes is grabbed by a

human uniformed cop, as he tries to swing again.

Sykes stops struggling, and his eyes focus.  He looks at

the alien he just decked, sprawled on his ass ten feet

away.  The alien is a uniformed cop... his name is JETSON.

He gets up.  A trickle of purple blood runs from his nose.

He moves off.  Jetson moves toward Sykes and the Raincoat

alien's body.  Sykes tenses, thinking Jetson might

retaliate in some way.  But Jetson simply steps past him

to kneel beside the dead alien.  He checks for a pulse on

the underside of the dead alien's upper arm.  Nothing.

Sykes is holding his punching hand in obvious pain.  He

struggles to rise.  Jetson gets an arm around him to help

him up.

Sykes roughly jerks himself free of Jetson's grip.

He almost loses his balance and has to steady himself

against the tunnel wall.  Sykes leans there, the picture

of impotent rage and frustration.  Jetson looks at him,

with that slight inquisitive expression aliens exhibit

when trying to understand human nature.

EXT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT

OPEN on Tuggle's body, as the body bag is zipped up over

his face, and the litter is lifted into the back of the

Coroner's wagon.

WIDEN to reveal Sykes, standing nearby, watching.  The

Wagon pulls out, and Sykes turns, moving past all the LAPD

black-and-whites and forensics wagons, and COPS (two of

them aliens) and DETECTIVES, and RUBBERNECKERS (some

alien).  He moves into:

INT.  MINI-MART - NIGHT

The CRIME SCENE TEAM is checking for prints, digging slugs

out of the wall, photographing everything.  Several

UNIFORMED COPS mill around.  Sykes moves aimlessly around

the room like a stranger at a party.

The Proprietor's Wife stands near the body in a strange

rigid posture, a thin, mournful KEENING SOUND coming from

her lips.  A harried female uniformed cop is trying to get

her away from the body, but can't get her to budge.

MINKLER, a ballistics guy, is tagging the pump-shotgun the

Raincoat alien dropped here.  NATUZZI, a mean-looking

veteran uniform cop is with him.

Minkler pulls an evidence baggie from his work box.

Inside are four unfired twelve gauge shells.

Minkler senses somebody has just stepped up beside him.

He looks.  It's Sykes.

A new voice enters the conversation.

Sykes turns -- surprised, and not especially pleased to

see the voice is Jetson's.

Before Jetson can say, the female cop who was talking to

the Proprietor's Wife steps up.

And he moves off with his partner.  Sykes calls after him,

but Jetson is already approaching the woman and doesn't

turn.

EXT.  SYKES' APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

The slug-mobile pulls up.  A drained Sykes moves up the

walk to his front door.

INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - NIGHT

Sykes enters his apartment, an untidy bachelor place

decorated with negative taste.  It's obviously the maid's

decade off.

By rote, he hits the rewind switch on the answering

machine on his way into the kitchen.  The tape rewinds.

He opens the fridge.  Not much here.  Left-over take-out

pizza carton.  Left-over take-out Chinese food cartons.

Left-over take-out burger wrappers.

The answering machine message begins -- he glances over

his shoulder as he HEARS his daughter's VOICE.  During the

following, he reaches the fridge.  Brings out a milk

carton that's in his way, sets it on the counter.  Reaches

in again and this time brings out a bottle of Stoly.  Then

searches for a semi-clean glass.

The machine BEEPS and HISSES.  Sykes take the glass and

the bottle of vodka, crosses back toward the living room,

switching off the answering machine as he goes.

Then he stops, turns back, takes the message tape out of

the machine and tosses it into a drawer.

INT.  DETECTIVE SQUAD ROOM - DAY

Sykes enters, stirring a jumbo coffee.  He's slept about

four hours, and his face looks like he went a few with

Hagler.  He crosses straight to Fedorchuk's desk.

Across the room, the Captain's door BANGS open and CAPTAIN

WARNER pounds out, his deep voice booming through the

squad room.

Two detectives on their way out, stop, and head back into

the room.  Everybody gathers around, curious, as Warner

stands holding a sheet of paper.

The detectives GROAN... some angrier ones grumble, "This

is bullshit!", etc.

He turns and heads back to his office in the wake of

continued grumbling from the detectives.  Sykes, standing

to one side, absently watches Warner return to his glass-

walled office.  Waiting inside are a balding man and an

alien in a grey suit.  Sykes reacts.  The alien in the

suit is Jetson.

The grumbling continues around him as Sykes considers

something.

Others grumble.  "Yeah!".  Meanwhile, Sykes has decided

something.  He heads toward Warner's office.  Fedorchuk

sees this.

INT.  WARNER'S OFFICE - DAY

Sykes KNOCKS and enters.

Warner is surprised.  He never expected Sykes.

Warner looks up, clocking this.  He looks at Sykes,

starting to smell something fishy.

The balding man, GOLDRUP, rises to shake their hands.

Warner is starting to suspect what Sykes is up to.

Jetson looks over at Sykes, knows he's up to something.

Sykes avoids his look.

Long-suffering Warner looks up at Goldrup, then finally

sighs with resignation.  Sykes grins.

INT.  STAIRWELL - FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY

The steel door BANGS open and Sykes and Jetson exit.  Next

to Sykes' slept-in look, Jetson in his grey suit looks

like a Jehovah's Witness canvasser.  They move past all

the black-and-whites pulling out on p.m. watch during:

Sykes nods absently, and they walk on... four and a half

steps to be exact.  Then it hits Sykes.  He seizes up

cold.

Jetson nods... he's used to this.

Sykes cracks up.

EXT.  POLICE STATION PARKING AREA - DAY

They approach Sykes' ugly sedan, the slug-mobile.

Sykes looks at him, perplexed.

Jetson gets in and slams the door, leaving Sykes standing

there, the smirk dropping from his face.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - DAY

They're cruising along in downtown traffic.  Sykes drives.

Jetson is somewhat cramped in the passenger seat.

Jetson is momentarily thrown by this outburst from Sykes.

Then...

Sykes grimaces at the mention of "Newcomer housing".

Sykes looks over at Jetson, pissed.

Jetson considers this several moments, then--

Sykes stares at him, exasperated.  Without warning, he

slams the car to a stop right in the middle of heavy

traffic, puts it in "Park." Jetson, who is already a

little too close to the dashboard, bangs up against it.

HORNS instantly go crazy behind them.

YELLING joins the HORNS outside.  Jetson is visibly

unsettled by the chaos.

And with that he puts the car in gear and pulls rapidly

out.

Jetson doesn't know what to think -- he just holds on.

INT.  HALLWAY - L.A. COUNTY MORGUE - DAY

WINTER, a deputy Medical Examiner (human), is leading

Sykes and Jetson along the hall.  He reads on the fly from

a case file in his hand.

INT.  AUTOPSY ROOM - DAY

They enter briskly through a swinging door.  They move

among the tables (some occupied, some not) during:

They have reached a table holding a covered body.  Winter

unceremoniously throws back the cover.  There lies the

pale naked body of the Raincoat alien.

Jetson smiles slightly out of politeness.

Jetson nonchalantly looks over the alien body while Winter

and Sykes continue talking off to one side.

During this, Jetson has turned the dead alien's hand over

-- sees something that brings a frown of curiosity to his

face.  He leans closer, examining the palm carefully.

Then he peels back the alien's upper lip.

Jetson frowns anew, with concern this time.  He looks

around, spots a Newcomer lab assistant nearby -- BENTNER.

Jetson motions him over.  Jetson begins questioning him

using the alien language.  Sykes and Winter nearby, remain

oblivious.

Sykes looks over, now noticing Jetson and Bentner in

earnest conversation.  He only catches snatches of the

alien language.  Bentner appears very unsettled by what

Jetson is telling him.  In response to Jetson's final

statement, Bentner nods -- as if agreeing to do something

Jetson has requested.  Sykes goes over to Jetson.

Jetson moves off, leaving Sykes there wondering.

INT.  PROPERTY ROOM - COUNTY MORGUE - DAY

Two large plastic packets are dumped of their contents

onto a formica counter.  Sykes looks through the dead

alien's effects while Jetson goes through the human's.

ORTIZ, the college girl working the property counter, sits

nearby doing homework.

Jetson holds up a little foil packet with a puzzled frown.

Sykes tears open the packet, unrolls the condom, dangles

it before Jetson.

Sykes looks at Jetson's serious expression.  He tosses the

condom and packet back into the counter and continues

searching.  A beat, then he can't stop himself -- he

steals a glance at Jetson's crotch.

Still searching, Sykes picks up one of the dead alien's

well-worn heavy work boots.  He grimaces... the sides and

soles are painted with a viscous black substance.  He very

tentatively sniffs it... and is grateful that it's not

what he thought it might be.

Sykes gets some on his hands, doesn't know where to wipe

it.  Jetson glances over.

Sykes looks at him... surprised that he knows.

INT./ EXT.  MINI-MART - LATE AFTERNOON

The shattered windows have been covered with plywood.

Through the open doorway we see Jetson talking to the

Proprietor's Wife.  She studies a photo Jetson shows her,

nods her head, speaking rapidly in the alien language.

EXT.  REFINERY - LATE AFTERNOON

Sykes drives along beside the mammoth, steaming network of

buildings and pipes that make up the refinery.

INT.  REFINERY - LATE AFTERNOON

Through the loud and smoky refinery we see Sykes walking

with the newly promoted Methane Section manager, O'NEAL,

in tie and shirtsleeves.  The workmen around them are both

human and Newcomer.

They stop and Sykes hands O'Neal the polariod photo of

Raincoat alien.  They have stopped near the heavy

refrigeration-type door leading to the "METHANE SECTION".

Newcomer workers move in and out through the door during:

O'Neal reacts.  Sykes notices the door to the Methane

Section.

Sykes watches two more alien workers pass back through the

door.  O'Neal watches Sykes' expression for signs of

suspicion.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT - SYKES AND O'NEAL

We see Sykes hand O'Neal a card, then move off.  O'Neal

watches him briefly, then crosses to some steps and starts

up this way.

We PAN with him as he enters a door here on the second

level.

INT.  METHANE SECTION CONTROL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

O'Neal enters, moves to a telephone, begins to dial.

Beyond is a glass wall overlooking the Methane Section.

ANGLE - BELOW

CAMERA TRACKS through the Methane Section... past the

alien workers in lab whites... past all the arcane

equipment and chemical procedures... ending in an EXTREME

CLOSE UP of a small cylindrical dispenser as it fills

slowly with a pale blue, viscous liquid.

INT./ EXT.  SLUG-MOBILE - JETSON'S STREET - DUSK

We're SHOOTING THROUGH the slug-mobile window as Sykes

pulls up in front of Jetson's modest but immaculately

maintained home on the outskirts of Slagtown.  Jetson's

WIFE, an attractive alien woman, stands watering the lawn

with a garden hose.  Jetson's son, age six, rides his

bicycle along the walkway.  Jetson, dressed in his suit

for work, crouches near the walkway, playing with his son.

Sykes pulls the car toward the curb, rolls his eyes.

He HONKS the horn.  Jetson looks up, then moves to his

wife and kisses her goodbye.  Moves to his son, kisses him

on the top of his head.

Sykes watches all this... and as he does, slowly his

derisive expression softens.  As corny as this tableau may

be, there's something very appealing about the innocence

of it... even to an unrepentant cynic like Sykes.

Jetson starts to climb into the car, and we--

INT.  RESTROOM - BILTMORE HOTEL - NIGHT

CLOSE on an alien hand as it removes one of the drug

dispensers from a tuxedo pocket.  As the hand brings the

dispenser toward the face, we immediately recognize the

exotic silver bracelet worn by Kipling the night before.

It makes that distinctive CLINKING NOISE.  We PAN with the

hand to reveal Kipling's face... sans bandana and

sunglasses now.  He wears a black tuxedo.  He lets a small

dab of the blue gel curl from the dispenser onto his

tongue.  He swallows... and reacts as the rush from the

drug hits him.

The door to the men's room bangs open and a MIDDLE AGED

POLITICO enters, obviously drunk.

Kipling quickly pockets the dispenser, moves past the

Politico to the exit...

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

Sykes drives, heading for the Biltmore Hotel.

Sykes nods.

INT.  MAIN BALLROOM - BILTMORE HOTEL - NIGHT

The men are in tuxedos, the women in evening gowns.  Only

two of three Newcomers faces present.  Kipling threads his

way among the tables as the MAYOR, at the speaker's

platform, addresses the assembly.

There is laughter from the VIPs.  Kipling slides into a

seat at one of the front tables.  He leans over and

whispers something into the ear of the person seated to

his right.  We see this CLOSE UP, and don't see who he is

whispering to yet.  Whoever it is, nods.

The VIPs applaud as the spotlight sweeps over to a front

table.  At first it hits Kipling, then it adjusts to

capture WILLIAM HARCOURT, seated to Kipling's right.

Harcourt is an exemplar of the successful Newcomer

entrepreneur... handsome, charming, with cool blue eyes

that glint with his piercing intellect.  He rises, smiling

warmly, steps past his striking ALIEN DATE seated to his

right, to make his way to the podium.  He shields his eyes

somewhat from the bright spotlight.

Once behind the podium, he slips his notes from a breast

pocket as the applause ebbs.

The VIPs laugh.  He's won them over instantly with his

charm and candor.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL - FOYER - NIGHT

Sykes, followed by a reluctant Jetson, bears down on

Harcourt, who is exiting the hotel with his Date, and

Kipling.  We see Kipling recognize Sykes from their fight

two nights before... but because Kipling looks so

different, Sykes doesn't recognize him outright.  Still,

during this, Sykes senses something, though he's not sure

what.

Suddenly there's a voice from O.S.:

Harcourt turns as the Mayor and his WIFE step up.

The wind is knocked from Sykes' sails by the presence of

the Mayor with a very impatient expression.  Harcourt

smiles.

Harcourt is smiling as he says this last, but his eyes are

penetrating... telegraphing a subliminal warning.

Harcourt and entourage move off... leaving Sykes steaming.

EXT.  BILTMORE HOTEL - HARCOURT AND KIPLING - NIGHT

Walking behind the others.  They speak in very low voices;

Harcourt continuing to nod and smile to other passing VIPs

during:

INT.  POLICE FIRING RANGE - FRONT DESK - NIGHT

MAFFET, the stocky retired cop behind the counter, hands

Jetson a bag of reloads and some silhouette targets.

Sykes nods to Jetson, motioning him toward the firing

line.

Maffet slides open a drawer, takes out a paper bag

containing a massive pistol with an enormous bore.  By

his manner this deal is definitely not kosher.  Sykes

hefts the weapon.

EXT.  SHOOTING RANGE - FIRING LINE - NIGHT

Jetson, looking bizarre in his ear-protectors, is taking

careful aim with his .38 as Sykes walks up.  Jetson slips

the protectors down.

Jetson, a little nervous at this command performance,

turns, sets, and FIRES at the silhouette target.  It's a

large, sloppy grouping.

Sykes starts loading the thumb-sized bullets into the

Casull.

Sykes grabs a bullet-proof vest from nearby, slaps it onto

the hanging target form.  He hits the switch, running the

target down to the end of the lane.

Sykes raises the Casull, fires.  KA-BOOM!!!  The shell

rockets clean through the bullet-proof vest on the target

form.  The recoil slams Sykes back, jerks his arm up.  KA-

BOOM!!!  again, and another hole is drilled through the

vest.  Other shooters look over.  Sykes sets the gun

down... sees his hand is bleeding.  Jetson absorbs all

this, as we--

EXT.  "X" BAR - NIGHT

A violet neon "X" FILLS FRAME, flashing hypnotically.

It's a bar catering to rough-trade Newcomer clientele.

Several ALIEN MEN, brute laborer-types, lounge around out

front.  They glare with antagonism as Sykes and Jetson

climb out of their car.

INT.  "X" BAR - NIGHT

Sykes and Jetson walk into the almost total blackness of

this all-Newcomer place.

A few near-infrared indigo lamps dot the blackness.

We can dimly make out booths along one wall, some tables,

and the bar.  There are maybe twenty figures seated or

standing in the darkness.  The room falls silent in a wave

as Sykes' presence becomes noticed.

Sykes saunters forward, commanding the space with his

unhurried movements.

Sykes squints into the darkness, then--

Sykes nods, starts in that direction.

The whole place roars with LAUGHTER.  Too late Sykes

remembers what his name sounds like to them.  He continues

down the bar and a figure in one of the booths sticks his

leg out and trips Sykes with his size 16 work boot.  Sykes

stumbles, then recovers and pivots on the offender.  Hoots

and derisive LAUGHTER.  He sees only shadows.

More laughter.  Sykes gives the darkness where the

offender sits a hard stare, then turns and shoulders his

way to the end of the bar.  Jetson follows.  Sykes stops

behind a big Newcomer in greasy work clothes.

ANGLE

The punk Newcomer in the next seat is keeping his head

down, trying to be inconspicuous.

He glances over at the two cops... his expression shifting

to recognition as he spots Jetson.

BACK TO SCENE

Sykes speaks to the Big Newcomer's back.

The Big Newcomer continues to sip his mug of sour milk.

Doesn't turn.  Sykes grabs him by the shoulder and turns

him around.  The alien grabs Sykes' hand off, rising to

his full height.  He and Sykes lock eyes.  Meanwhile.  the

punk Newcomer (PORTER) has started to slip away unnoticed.

Jetson spots him, reaches out with one arm, and grabs him

by the jacket.

He pulls Porter back into play.  Now Jetson sees Porter's

face... and he, too, reacts with recognition.

Sykes gives Jetson a sour look, releases the Big Newcomer,

and turns his malice on the punk Newcomer.

Jetson backs off, letting him handle it.

And instantly Sykes whips out this flashlight, snaps on

the beam, and arcs it into the faces of the aliens around

him.  Jetson gets a blast of it, too.  The aliens are

momentarily blinded.

Sykes has Porter pinned to the bar, the flashlight in his

face, as he starts to handcuff him.  But Porter gets a

hand free and crushes the head of the flashlight.

Darkness falls... along with Sykes' expression of

satisfaction.

Porter hurls Sykes back, slamming him into a table.  The

crowd HOOTS and CHEERS.  Sykes finds his way to his feet.

He charges Porter, brandishing the flashlight like a club.

The two of them battle, then Sykes sees his opportunity

and brings his knee up viciously into the alien's groin.

Porter doubles over in feigned agony, then slowly rises

again -- smiling.

Porter grabs Sykes by the shirt front, is about to deliver

a crushing blow, when another arm cuts into FRAME, locking

with Porter's, blocking the punch.  It is Jetson.

Jetson says something to him in the alien language.

Porter gives him a hard stare, then moves toward the back

exit.  Sykes stumbles over to Jetson.

And he moves toward the back exit.  Sykes watches him go.

EXT.  "X" BAR - NIGHT

Porter leans against an alley wall.  He speaks English

learned on the streets.

He pushes away from the wall, heads for the door to the

bar.

Porter throws him a look over his shoulder, then

disappears through the door.  Sykes and Jetson start down

the alley.

EXT.  BURGER STAND - NIGHT

The wall-mounted menu is in English and the Alien

Language.  The SERVERS are teen aged humans and aliens.

Sykes and Jetson stand at the counter awaiting their

order.

They both put money on the counter.  The kid goes to put

the order together.  Sykes looks at the alien characters

on the menu.

The Serving Kid puts their bags on the counter.

They take the bags and walk off, digging the food out of

the bags as they talk:

They climb into the car.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

Jetson doesn't respond... some things are better left

unaddressed.  Meanwhile, Sykes has unwrapped his food and

recoils in disgust.

He holds up two strips of raw meat with patches of animal

fur still on them.  Jetson meanwhile is grimacing at the

dripping cheeseburger he's just unwrapped.  They quickly

trade.

Jetson looks over at him, smiling.

Sykes looks at his burger, his appetite gone, shoves it

back into the sack and tosses it into the back seat.

INT./ EXT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

As Sykes pulls onto the street.

Jetson pronounces the words and Sykes follows along

haltingly.  After several tries, he can say it passably

well.

INT.  ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT

An upscale, mostly yuppie-human dance club.  The

antithesis of the "X" bar.  A human HOSTESS in a slit

dress has just finished seating Sykes and Jetson at a

table.  She moves off.  The two cops look up at the stage.

REVERSE ANGLE

revealing the exotic alien dancer named CASSANDRA.  She

moves with a feline blend of strength and grace.  Framing

her face is a silvery nylon wig that she tosses like a

mane as she undulates to the MUSIC.

Sykes watches with fascination.  The MUSIC ends and

Cassandra steps down from the stage, to be replaced by a

human DANCER as the next SONG cranks up.  Sykes and Jetson

quickly intercept her as she heads backstage.

She eyes the two of them warily, then moves backstage,

assuming they will follow.

INT.  BACKSTAGE - NIGHT

She moves along the narrow corridor.

She moves through a door.  Sykes follows closely so does

Jetson.

INT.  ENCOUNTERS - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Cassandra grabs some clothes and goes into a stall.

Jetson has waited politely half-in half-out of the room.

Sykes rapidly motions to him to "go look around".  Jetson

mimes back, "Huh?"

Finally Jetson gets what Sykes is trying to tell him.  He

says in the uncertain, stagy voice of a bad liar:

Sykes rolls his eyes as Jetson exits into the corridor.

Cassandra emerges from the stall, wearing a long, stylish,

low-cut dress.

She is very close to Sykes now.  She fingers the lapel of

his jacket.

INT.  SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT

MUSIC drifts up from downstairs.  Jetson moves along the

corridor, scoping things out.  He tries a door.  Locked.

Tries another one.  Open.  He eases it wider, then enters

the darkened office.

INT.  OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT

Jetson moves into the office.  Looks around.  Makes his

way to the cluttered desk top.  Pushes things around...

all the usual stuff.  He starts to turn away, then his eye

catches something sticking out from behind a row of ledger

books.  He reaches for it.  A small dispenser -- of the

kind we saw being filled at the refinery.  Jetson studies

it, his suspicions growing.  Opening it, he finds only the

barest trace of a viscous substance.

He smells it... not enough to tell for certain what it is.

But enough that he is very concerned about what it could

be.

INT.  CASSANDRA'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Cassandra is practically melting herself into Sykes now.

She takes his hand and guides his fingertips over her

facial ridges.  She shudders with pleasure.  Sykes begins

to perspire.

He quickly disengages from her.

He shoves a business card at her, then retreats through

the door.

INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Sykes closes the door and lets out his breath.

INT.  CASSANDRA'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Cassandra's expression instantly turns to worry and she

quickly crosses to a phone and punches the intercom

button.

INT.  OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT

Jetson, looking through a desk drawer, hears the intercom

BUZZ in the next room.  Through the wall--

Jetson moves toward the door to the adjoining office,

drawing his gun.  The floor squeaks beneath his feet.  He

looks down, then continues toward the door.

INT.  OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT

Jetson eases open the door.  It's the manager's private

office.  Jetson sees the phone receiver resting on the

desk, the desk lamp on, a lit cigarette in an ashtray --

but no one behind the desk.  Jetson eases through the door

and--

-- a chair crashes down on him from behind the door!

Jetson goes down, his gun skittering out of his hand.

INT.  PRIVATE OFFICE - NIGHT

Jetson and his assailant battle in the well-appointed

office.

INT.  OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Sykes hears the fight through the private office door.

He throws the door open.

INT.  PRIVATE OFFICE - NIGHT

Sykes stands in the doorway, the Casull straight-armed at

Jetson's assailant.

The assailant does.  He looks at Sykes, scared, breathing

hard.  He's a Newcomer in a snappy Armani suit.  This is

TODD WATSON.  Jetson, on the floor, starts to rise.

Suddenly somebody flies at Sykes from the side, knocking

him sideways down the corridor.  It's Cassandra.  Watson

seizes the moment and shoves the off-balance Jetson into

some furniture and dives for the door.

INT.  SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Watson runs down the corridor, ducking onto a fire escape.

Meanwhile Sykes wrestles with Cassandra.  She's as strong

as he is, but he has the edge in experience.

Jetson, disheveled, appears in the private office doorway,

ready to chase Watson, but not knowing which way he went.

Jetson nods, takes off down the corridor.  Sykes manges to

get one handcuff on Cassandra's wrist, the other cuff

around a pipe sticking out of the wall.  She SCREECHES at

him in the alien language as he collects the Casull and

charges down the corridor.

EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT

Jetson pounds down the fire escape.  Below him, he sees

Watson reach the ground and take off running for the

parking area.

Jetson reaches the ground and gives chase.

EXT.  ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Watson zig-zags through the parked cars, Jetson cutting

down other rows trying to make up the distance between

them.

EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT

Sykes bangs down the fire escape, leaping the last fifteen

feet to the ground.

EXT.  ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Watson reaches his Alfa Romeo, yanks open the door, fires

it up.  Jetson slides up, ten feet behind the car, pulls

his gun, aims.

The white reverse-lights flash on.  Jetson stands there,

gun aimed -- but he hesitates to shoot.  In that split

second hesitation, Watson floors it... Jetson jumping to

avoid being hit.

INT.  ALFA ROMEO - NIGHT

Watson throws the car into Drive, looks up, and sees Sykes

standing right in front of the car.  He hits the gas.

Sykes has no choice then to leap onto the hood of the car.

Watson, with Sykes' face on the other side of the glass,

panics and--

EXT.  ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT

-- plows the Alfa into some parked cars.

Sykes is up in a flash -- yanks Watson out of the car.

Watson rears back to swing at Sykes, when Sykes swings his

arms around in two wide arcs, his fists landing two direct

hits in the nerve centers under Watson's arms.  Watson

folds over with a "ooowwph" sound and drops to his knees.

Jetson picks up Watson's fallen wallet.  He looks at the

I.D.

Watson is still doubled over, just trying to draw one

agonized breath.

Sykes shoves a business card in Watson's breast pocket.

They walk away and Watson slumps against his car.

ANGLE - MOVING WITH SYKES AND JETSON

as they walk wearily to the slug-mobile.

EXT.  ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Watson is alone, surveying the damage to his Alfa, when he

hears footsteps.  He turns with a "What now?" expression

and -- a shotgun butt is slammed into his forehead.  He

goes down.  Kipling stands over him, flanked by FOUR HUMAN

THUGS.  One of these is QUINT, senior human in Harcourt's

employ.

EXT.  ZUMA BEACH APPROACH _ NIGHT

Harcourt's private limo glides down the narrow access

road, passing a lookout car attended by two alien Thugs.

The limo moves down to the beach, parking near an n.d.

van.

Harcourt exits the limo, walks onto the sand to the back

of the van.  Here he finds Kipling and Quint and the three

human Thugs.

They have Watson chained to the van's rear bumper, facing

the sea, and have been working him over with a tire iron.

He's bruised and bloody, but still conscious.

Harcourt approaches Watson, kneels beside him, careful to

keep the knee of his designer pants out of the sand.

Harcourt signals and the two Thugs drag an alien body from

the back if the van: a middle-aged alien, Strader, shot

twice through the front of his silk suit.  Watson's eyes

widen in fear.

Watson stares at Harcourt, scared but defiant.

Harcourt studies Watson a moment, perhaps even admiring

his resolve.  Then--

Watson freaks out, howling and lashing against the chains.

Quint and the Thugs free Watson from the bumper.  He bucks

and lunges as they drag him toward the surf.  Quint

addresses one of the Thugs, a new guy.

The wave just sloshes over Watson's lower legs.  He

screams.  Flailing, one of his hands dips below the

surface of the water.  He howls and yanks out his hand.

We see the alien hand dripping seawater... then a thousand

droplets of purple alien blood begin to bead all over the

hand.  The Thugs get Watson swinging.

Watson is flung into the surf.

ANGLE

Harcourt and Kipling have walked down almost to the

waterline.  We HEAR Watson's GURGLES and SCREAMS... then

nothing.  Kipling is very nervous this close to the water.

Harcourt seems unperturbed.

A wave rushes up the sand.  Kipling quickly steps back.

Harcourt stands firm, staring it down, and the foam stops

six inches from his dress shoes.

A moment, then he turns and starts back toward the limo.

He motions to Strader's body and the surf.  The Thugs grab

the body and heave it into the waves.

INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jetson is talking rapidly in the alien language on the

kitchen wall phone.  Sykes, foreground, takes the bottle

of vodka from the refrigerator, throws some ice in a

glass, pours himself a shot.  As Jetson is talking, he

spots the carton of milk that Sykes inadvertently left out

of the refrigerator two nights ago.

He sniffs it... his eyebrows do an involuntary movement.

He finishes with his wife and hangs up.  He watches Sykes

take a long pull on the vodka.

Sykes shrugs, tosses him a glass.  Jetson pours the semi-

lumpy milk and takes a big swallow.  Sykes grimaces.

Then--

Sykes leans against the counter, getting comfortable, his

voice more weary then bitter.

Jetson nods -- even though he doesn't really understand

this.  They drink... Jetson gazes around.

He smacks his glass against Jetson's.  They drink.

INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER

Sykes has his wallet out... showing Jetson a dog-eared

photo.

Jetson sitting across the table from Sykes, looks at the

proffered photo.  They're both a little drunk now.

Jetson looks at him.  Sees something he never thought

possible in Sykes.  Vulnerability.  Trying to break the

melancholy mood, Jetson reaches for his wallet.

Sykes looks at all the photos sprawled out on the table...

and has to laugh.  He looks up at Jetson's sincere face.

He may be starting to like this guy.

And he clacks his glass against Jetson's sitting on the

table, and--

INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER

They are quite a bit drunker.  Jetson has doffed his

jacket and tie, leans in, listening intently to Sykes.

Jetson shrugs apologetically.  Sykes pours them each

another round.

They CLACK glasses, and--

INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER STILL

The party has moves into the living room floor, around the

coffee table.  It's a quieter moment.

Sykes is watching Jetson, mesmerized.  The guy's never

said this much at one time before.

If he wasn't drunk, Jetson would never let himself open up

to a human like this.

Jetson smiles a little.  He knows that's bullshit.

Sykes studies him a long time through heavy-lidded eyes.

Finally--

Jetson looks at him a long beat, then--

Sykes stares at him for about five seconds and then

explodes with laughter.

Jetson stands unsteadily, and announces:

Jetson, going out the front door, just waves over his

shoulder without turning around.  He's gone.

Sykes, stands there wobbling, then he collapses backward

onto the sofa, unconscious.  And we MATCH DISSOLVE TO--

INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - DAWN

The first hues of dawn stream through the window.  Sykes

remains passed out on the sofa where we left him.

EXT.  STREET - FRONT OF SYKES' BUILDING - DAWN

The slug-mobile parked at the curb.  Silence, then the

RUMBLE of a heavy truck... and a tow truck turns onto this

street at the corner.

The tow truck glides to the curb in front of the slug-

mobile.  The driver stays inside as his passenger alights

carrying a tool kit and a paper bag.  The human is Quint.

Quint uses a slim-jim to open the slug-mobile door, then

slides behind the wheel.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - DAWN

Quint slides the contents from the paper bag.  It is a

packet of C-4 plastic explosives, with a primer cap, and

two lead wires with their ends bared.  Quint bends down,

starts to work under the dash.  As his head disappears

from FRAME, suddenly another head appears above the

seats... George Jetson sitting up groggily in the back

seat.  A blanket slips off his head and shoulders.  He

sits there blinking, rubbing his eyes, feeling lousy.

Under the dash, Quint starts to whistle as he works.

Mistake.

Jetson, with a puzzled expression, leans forward and sees

this guy in the front seat.  Before he can jump-start his

brain, Quint sits up, sees him, and hammers him in the

face with his fist.  Jetson is knocked back, holding his

face.  That was the last thing he needed.

EXT.  STREET - FRONT OF SYKES' BUILDING - DAWN

Meanwhile Quint is shouting and bailing out of the car.

He runs and leaps into the already moving tow truck.

It is sliding around the corner out of sight just as

Jetson stumbles out of the car.  He whips out his gun from

the unfamiliar shoulder rig and it flies out of his hand.

Jetson sags against the side of the car, mumbles an alien

phrase, clearly the equivalent of "Fuck it...".

INT.  SYKES' APARTMENT - DAY

Sykes is in the fetal position on the couch where we left

him.  Someone is POUNDING on the door.  He regains

consciousness reluctantly.

He shambles to the door and gets it open, admitting

Jetson.  Jetson holds the C-4 charge in a handkerchief

with one hand and gives it to Sykes.

Sykes registers what he's holding.  He moves to Jetson,

who is running his head under the tap.

INT.  PRECINCT FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY

Jetson is starting to take on Sykes' looks, his clothing

rumpled and a day old.  Sykes has showered and changed so

he's not suffering as much by comparison.  They approach

Sykes' desk.

ANGLE - A UNIFORMED SECRETARY

distributing phone slips nearby notices Sykes.

Sykes and Jetson react again.

She moves off.

EXT.  PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - ZUMA BEACH - DUSK

CRANE SHOT, nice and WIDE, showing the slug-mobile turning

off P.C.H. onto a gravel road which curves down the the

beach.  The following is V.O. as the car approaches the

water.

We see the car pull to a stop in a cloud of dust.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - DUSK

Sykes sees that his partner is covered with a sudden sheen

of sweat, his hands shaking.  Sykes softens.

He climbs out and Sykes drives down to the beach... toward

a cluster of vehicles: a Sheriff's black-and-white, a

coroner's wagon, and Fedorchuk's unmarked sedan.

EXT.  BEACH - DUSK

A quick glimpse of a pile of dark yuck in the shape of a

person, black and skeletal beneath the remains of a silk

suit.  Wound around the corpse are streamers of kelp and

other high tide detritus.

ANGLE ON SYKES, FEDORCHUK, AND ALTEREZ

looking down at the body.  A CORONER'S TECHNICIAN is doing

a closer inspection.

Sykes absorbs this.  He rises along with Fedorchuk and

Alterez.

Fedorchuk looks up at Jetson standing on the bluff above.

Alterez shoots a polaroid of the body.  Sykes grabs it as

it emerges from the camera and walks back toward the car.

Fedorchuk flips him the bird.  As Sykes rounds the car, he

sees that someone has drawn on the door in yellow liquid

chalk marker a big star with "E.T. P.D." printed inside

it.  Sykes looks around.  Fedorchuk and the others stand

together chuckling, conspicuously not looking in his

direction.

EXT.  BEACH ROAD - DUSK

Sykes has stopped to pick Jetson up.

He's wiping the "E.T. P.D."  from the door as Jetson

approaches from the edge of the bluff.  Fedorchuk pulls up

alongside in his n.d. sedan.  He calls off to Jetson, who

is still twenty yards away.

Sykes, his face neutral, which we should by now know to be

highly dangerous, saunters to Fedorchuk's car and leans

against it.

Sykes grabs the back of Fedorchuk's head and slams it into

the steering wheel, BAM-HONK!, and in doing so, has hurt

his hand again (the hand he hit Jetson with).

He shakes that hand while lunging in and grabbing

Fedorchuk's car keys with the other.

Fedorchuk, holding his bloody nose, watches as his car

keys sail out in an arc out over the bluff.  Jetson, just

climbing into the slug-mobile, witnesses the last of this

scene without knowing how it began.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - DUSK

Sykes gets in, slams the door.  His hand hurts as he grabs

the wheel.  He holds the wheel gingerly as he slams the

car into gear and hurls gravel up the road toward P.C.H.

Jetson looks over, curious.

On Jetson's confused expression, we--

EXT.  BURGER STAND - NIGHT

A different burger stand.  Sykes and Jetson sit across

from each other at one of the outdoor tables... Sykes with

his greasy burger, Jetson with his mole strips.  This time

they have no trouble eating in front of each other as they

talk.

INT.  PATHOLOGY LAB OFFICE - NIGHT

Sykes and Jetson enter the cluttered lab office.  Winter

is here eating take-out chicken at his cluttered desk.

Jetson frowns.

He wipes his greasy fingers on a napkin, then finds an

envelope on the desk and hands it to Jetson.  Jetson tears

open the sealed envelope.  The message inside is written

in the alien language.

CLOSE ON - JETSON

His expression grows stricken as he reads the message.

BACK TO SCENE

Winter shrugs, indicates the message Jetson reads, as if

to say, "Maybe it says in there".

Jetson refolds the paper and puts it in his pocket.

He is clearly disturbed by what he has read.  He looks at

Sykes a moment, then quickly breaks eye contact.

Jetson quickly moves off.  Sykes hurries off after him.

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Sykes hurries to catch up with the fast walking Jetson.

They eventually reach the elevators and Jetson jabs the

button during:

The elevator arrives, he steps in.  Sykes follows.

INT.  ELEVATOR - NIGHT

They enter the empty elevator.  Jetson presses the button

to descend.

Jetson remains steadfast.  Sykes, about to explode, slams

his palm against the red Emergency Stop button and the

elevator lurches to a halt between floors.

The voltage runs out of Sykes.  He seems to understand

Jetson's dilemma.

Sykes stare at Jetson... absorbing the enormity of the

earth-shattering secret this alien has asked him to keep.

EXT.  COUNTY MORGUE - NIGHT

Sykes and Jetson move quickly to the slug-mobile.  Sykes

reaches for the driver's door handle with his punching

hand.  He winces in pain... the son-of-a-bitch still

hurts.  He looks across at Jetson opening the passenger

door.

Jetson looks over at him... gently reacting to this vote

of confidence.  They walk quickly around to the opposite

doors, climb in.

INT.  CORRIDOR - BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHT

Sykes and Jetson move down this government-building

corridor.

They enter a door marked BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS.

INT.  BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHT

HIGH SHOT showing the maze of partitioned cubicles filling

this huge room.  It's all but deserted.  Sykes and Jetson

are off to one side with a heavyset woman (human) COMPUTER

OPERATOR, who they're shanghaied into helping them after

hours.

CLOSER - AT COMPUTER OPERATOR'S DESK

She sits at her computer terminal.  Sykes and Jetson stand

behind her as she types in commands and information.

She types: Hubley, Warren.  The computer screen flashes

past various information, then settles on a screen full of

information of HUBLEY, WARREN.

The Operator punches up STRADER, JOSHUA.  The screen fills

with information.

She types it in.

But Sykes wasn't listening.  He's starting off... an idea

forming.  He stands there a moment, considering it, his

face looking like he's chewing something sour.  It's so

off-the-wall it takes a moment for him to assimilate it.

Then--

Suddenly the realization hits Jetson, too.  He looks at

Sykes.

Sykes spins to the Operator, excited.

She moves up a screen to the top of Porter's information.

She rapidly types in additional information.  The screen

shifts as she jumps files.  Finally she gets a line that

reads: ENTER LODGE NUMBER: She types: 7-7-2.

Sykes and Jetson lean in as the screen goes blank... then

information flashes past as the computer searches... then,

finally: Occupants, Quarantine Lodge 772: HUBLEY,

WARREN......... STRADER, JOSHUA.........

Sykes and Jetson react -- their hunch is coming true.

On the computer screen: .........PORTER, CECIL.........

Sykes and Jetson, their faces bathed in the green kick of

the screen, stare without blinking, waiting for that forth

name.

On the computer screen: .........HARCOURT, WILLIAM.

CLOSE ON - SYKES AND JETSON

reacting to the name.

EXT.  ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT

CLOSE on a limousine door as it opens and a tall figure

rises from the back seat.  We TILT UP to reveal William

Harcourt.

We MOVE with him as he walks to the n.d. van (from the

beach scene) parked in front of the limousine.  Kipling is

just sliding out of the passenger side of the cab.  Quint

exits the driver door.  Kipling slides open the van's side

panel, reaches in for--

-- a large black suitcase.  He slides it out.  Harcourt

nods.  He and Kipling start into the club, followed by

Quint.

INT.  ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT

The club is deserted tonight as Harcourt and entourage

move toward the back.

EXT.  SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Harcourt and the others move up the stairs to the second

floor.  Cassandra, wearing a slinky dress, is at the top

of the stairs waiting for them.  She's very uncomfortable

dealing with Harcourt.  Kipling and Quint continue on

toward the office door.  Harcourt pauses with Cassandra.

He touches her neckline of her dress, letting his fingers

linger against her flesh.

He continues down toward the office door.  Cassandra

watches him go.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - MOVING - NIGHT

EXT.  REFINERY - ESTABLISHING SHOT - NIGHT

EXT.  REFINERY - NIGHT

The slug-mobile skids to a stop at the loading dock

entrance.  Sykes and Jetson climb out.  They hop up onto

the loading platform and move purposefully into the well-

lit interior through the open door.

INT.  REFINERY - NIGHT

It is Saturday night, the plant is barely operational --

only a few WORKERS around.  Sykes and Jetson move

purposefully toward the back.

Jetson doesn't reply -- he's focused beyond what Sykes is

saying.  Sykes spots O'Neal up ahead by the refrigeration

door to the METHANE SECTION.

O'Neal recognizes Sykes and doesn't wait around for the

big Newcomer bearing down on him.  He dodges quickly

through the refrigeration door and swings it closed.

Jetson's hand hits the door an instant later, before it is

latched, and he pushes it open despite O'Neal's body

weight against the other side.

INT.  METHANE ROOM - NIGHT

Jetson grabs O'Neal by the collar and drags him deeper

into the deserted room.

Sykes reaches the doorway, stops and stares.

O'Neal's feet are barely touching the ground as Jetson

moves along the row of drug-manufacturing equipment.

Finally he reaches a stainless steel tub... he runs a long

finger along the inside, comes up with some residue of the

drug.  It glistens blue on his finger.  It holds him

mesmerized for several moments... his expression that of a

former junkie beholding the stuff he used to covet so.

A beat, than Jetson explodes -- he sweeps a rack of

equipment off the worktable, savagely wipes the drug from

his hand onto O'Neal's shirt-front as he slams and pins

the bug-eyed O'Neal to the wall.

O'Neal is experiencing real fear now.  Sykes has decided

to back Jetson up, for better or worse.  He takes the

"good cop" role.

Jetson reacts to this... then increases the pressure.

O'Neal is really in bad trouble now.  Even Sykes takes a

half-step forward -- thinking Jetson might actually crush

this man.

Finally, Jetson eases off.  O'Neal slumps to the floor,

gasping for air.

EXT.  REFINERY - NIGHT

This time Jetson is the Juggernaut... his expression set

and hard... as he strides to the car.  Sykes practically

has to run to keep up.

Jetson has reached the driver's door of the slug-mobile,

yanks it open.

And to Sykes' shock, he throws the car in gear and peels

out.

Jetson accelerates toward the security gate.  The guard in

the shack starts yelling and runs out as the slug-mobile

bashes through the barricade bar.

Sykes stands there like a moron -- with no partner, no

car.  A pickup truck carrying a Worker just getting off

his shift starts ambling past.  Sykes runs in front of it,

waving his badge.  The pickup skids to a stop.

The poor guy bails out and Sykes jumps in, jamming it into

gear.  The truck has seen better days... it doesn't have

much power to give as Sykes floors it toward the exit.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

As Jetson races along the freeway, whipping past other

traffic.  He takes a hand off the wheel, reaches over and

pops open the glovebox.  He shoves some maps and garbage

aside, reaches deeper inside for something -- we don't see

what.

INT.  ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT

Cassandra walks a trio of well-dressed DRUG DEALERS (two

alien, one human) through the deserted club.

INT.  SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT

She leads them to the office door, opens it, then lets

them enter ahead of her.  A couple of them smile at her

lasciviously as they brush past.  She is about to enter

herself when an alien hand flashes in behind her, covering

her mouth, pulling her backward away from the door.

It is Jetson.  He had been hiding behind some crates

stacked here in the corridor.  He pins Cassandra

powerfully to the wall, keeping one hand over her mouth.

She struggles until she sees who it is.

She hesitates, then decides to cooperate, indicates with a

nod toward the office door.

INT.  CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

The large suitcase rests on the expansive conference

table.  A manicured alien hand reaches in and slowly opens

it.  Inside are fifty one-kilo glass tubes full of the

viscous blue drug.  Also several of the small, individual

dispensers.  It is Harcourt, standing behind the table in

a pool of light, who has opened the suitcase.  He is

flanked by Kipling... with Quint elsewhere in the room.

The room is lit by track light, creating pools of light

and dark.

The two alien Dealers' eyes widen at the sight of the

drug.  The human dealer doesn't know what it is.

Harcourt sees the hungering expressions on the alien

Dealers' faces... smiles knowingly.  He slides one of the

dispensers from the suitcase.

One of the alien Dealers takes the dispenser, brings it to

his tongue.  The other alien dealer turns to Harcourt--

He indicates the drug.  The first alien Dealer sways

gently, enjoying the sensation.  The second alien Dealer

takes his hit... shudders as the first rush washes over

him.  The human Dealer is no fool... he grabs the

dispenser.

Suddenly, a voice from the shadows near the open door to

the other office:

Harcourt and the others react.  Quint leaps to his feet,

caught off guard.  Kipling reaches for his shoulder

holster.  A silhouette beside the open door to the outer

office nudges Cassandra into the light of the room, then

steps out himself.  It is Jetson.

Quint gets his gun out, is about to aim... when his eyes

go wide at the sight of something Jetson holds.

It is the plastic explosive charge that Quint was wiring

to the slug-mobile.  The wires are connected and Jetson's

finger squeezes down hard on the detonation push-switch.

Jetson moves forward slowly, holding the bomb in front of

him.  He is sweating rivers.  The others quickly join him.

He nudges Cassandra ahead of himself, keeping her where he

can see her.

He says it with such straightforward eye contact, that

Harcourt (and we) know he isn't bluffing.

Harcourt remains behind the desk.  Cassandra stays where

she is, near Jetson.  The others move to the wall.

Kipling in particular is going nuts, letting this happen.

Jetson takes the "sample" dispenser from the table, tosses

it into the suitcase, then closes the lid and locks it.

All the while keeping his eye on Harcourt and the others.

There's a flicker of concern behind Harcourt's icy blue

eyes.

Cassandra stares at Harcourt.

Cassandra runs to Harcourt grabbing his jacket.

Harcourt looks down at her, totally uninvolved.

Cassandra's eyes go wide as the horror of what he said

sinks in.  Jetson nudges Harcourt with the suitcase.  They

start out.  Cassandra, wild with rage, grabs Quint's .357

and with a KEENING WAIL, brings it up toward Harcourt's

face.

Jetson drops the suitcase as he lunges for the gun.  He

manages to knock it away just as she fires -- the bullet

going into the wall behind Harcourt.  Striking like a

mongoose, Kipling leaps forward, grabbing the two lead

wires on the bomb in Jetson's hand and jerking them apart.

Jetson reacts an instant late... releasing the switch...

and nothing happens.

Kipling tackles Jetson and they both go crashing to the

floor.  Quint grabs the gun from Cassandra and hammers her

with it, hard.  She drops to her knees and Quint viciously

hits her again.

Meanwhile, Jetson struggles to regain his feet.  Kipling

rears back and delivers a crushing blow under Jetson's arm

-- to the nerve plexus.  Jetson instantly folds over

forward and Kipling savagely brings up his knee into

Jetson's face, flipping him back.  Kipling slams him into

the wall face-first, pinning him there.

Quint brings the gun up, places the muzzle against the

base of Cassandra's skull, starts to squeeze the trigger.

There's a loud BLAM!  and Cassandra flinches... then looks

up.

Quint is blown backward away from her.

Sykes stand in the doorway from the private office, the

Casull smoking in his hand.

Quint hits the wall behind him -- only it's not a solid

wall, but the huge window overlooking the club.  He

crashes through it.

ANGLE FROM DANCE FLOOR

as the wall of mirror explodes IN SLOW MOTION and Quint

cartwheels to the floor in a shower of diamonds.

ANGLE - IN THE OFFICE

Kipling shoves Jetson aside, draws his gun and fires at

Sykes.

Sykes dodges into the private office for cover.

The three Dealers dive behind any available furniture.

Harcourt snatches up the suitcase and rushes to the door

leading into the adjoining outer office.

Sykes swings around the edge of the private office door,

straight-arms the Casull into the office and fires.

Kipling fires back, crossing toward the outer office door,

covering Harcourt's back.  Sykes ducks back down.

An unsteady Jetson rises from the floor, sees Harcourt and

Kipling escaping, and takes off after them.

Sykes straight-arms the gun into the room again... sees

Jetson disappearing through the adjoining office door.  He

moves into the room as the three drug Dealers, arms up in

surrender, rise from behind the furniture.

Sykes looks at these harmless wimps... then at Cassandra.

And he charges out the adjoining office door.

EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE - ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT

Harcourt and Kipling bang down the metal stairs.  Jetson

is ten feet above them.  Sykes flies out onto the fire

escape, a few steps behind Jetson.  A POLICE CAR SIREN is

HEARD arriving O.S.

EXT.  ALLEY - BEHIND ENCOUNTER - NIGHT

Two UNIFORMED OFFICERS bound from their unit and run into

the back entrance of the club, leaving the unit running.

Two seconds later, Harcourt and Kipling leap down from the

fire escape, find themselves near the unit.

He throws the suitcase into the passenger side door, jumps

in.  Kipling dives in behind the wheel, slams it into gear

and floors it.

Jetson and Sykes hit the ground just as the unit peels

out.  Sykes raises the Casull and fires at the fleeing

car.  One slug shatters a tail light, others pepper the

rear of the trunk, but the car keeps going.

He indicates the slug-mobile parked nearby.  They race to

it, jump in... Sykes driving.  He burns rubber as he pulls

out.

A second arriving police unit pulls into the alley,

heading straight for the slug-mobile.  Sykes has to grate

between the alley wall and the arriving police unit to get

past.

EXT.  WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT

Harcourt and Kipling in the first police unit come

thundering down the street zig-zagging through traffic.

The slug-mobile is three-quarters of a block behind them.

INSIDE THE BLACK-AND-WHITE

Harcourt begins fumbling with the dash switches...

eventually hitting the right ones and the roof lights and

SIREN blast on.

EXT.  WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT

It looks like a backwards chase, the slug-mobile chasing

the howling police car through traffic.

Jetson alertly eyes the approaching traffic -- calls it

out to Sykes the way he was trained at the academy.

With Jetson's help, Sykes is able to dice through the

cross-traffic without incident.

EXT.  WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT

The traffic ahead of the police car peels off in response

to the approaching lights and SIREN.  Kipling dodges

around the stopped traffic easily.

The same traffic that has pulled over for the police car

now starts easing back onto the street, cutting off the

slug-mobile.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

Sykes' expression tells us he's slipped into the same

juggernaut mode we saw during the foot chase in the alley.

But Sykes doesn't slow -- instead he floors it.

EXT.  WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT

Sykes peels around the merging traffic, cuts across the

intersection, and continues the chase.  On the wrong side

of the road, head-on into traffic.

Headlights peel off in front of them as they charge along

the wrong side.  They eventually catch up to the police

unit, racing parallel to it, but with the divider between

them.

Sykes keeps one hand on the wheel and draws the Casull

with the other.  He brings it up and around right in front

of Jetson's nose, pointing it through the passenger window

at Kipling.

At that moment, Kipling glances over and reacts to the

bore of this huge gun staring him in the kisser.

Jetson reacts to the gun in his face... then reacts to

something else he sees beyond it.

Now Sykes looks.  The light at the intersection has just

turned green -- and the rows of the cars that were waiting

start coming.  It's a wall of headlights coming right for

the slug-mobile.

EXT.  WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT

Sykes locks up the brakes.  Kipling veers around a couple

of cars and speeds away.

Because of the other traffic, Sykes has only one course of

action.  He skids a left onto a side street.

EXT.  SIDE STREET - NIGHT

Sykes burns rubber down this quieter street, squeals a

right onto another street that parallels the street the

police unit is on.  At the first street available, he cuts

back in behind the police unit.

EXT.  FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHT

Sykes' car tears along below the overpass -- with the

police unit directly above them!  An on-ramp approaches

for the slug-mobile and Sykes floors it.

INT.  BLACK-AND-WHITE - NIGHT

Harcourt turns in his seat just in time to see the slug-

mobile airborne as it flies from the on-ramp, landing a

few feet behind the black-and-white's bumper.

EXT.  FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHT

With the slug-mobile now, the police unit hangs a right,

cuts through a parking lot, and bounces onto--

EXT.  SECOND STREET AND TUNNEL - NIGHT

The police unit hangs a u-turn into the Second Street

tunnel.  It clips one of the civilian cars, causing a

pile-up of traffic behind the police unit.

The slug-mobile skids to a stop, blocked by the clog of

traffic in the tunnel.  Sykes is out of the drivers door

in a flash, stand on the door frame, and yells--

People climb out of their cars dazed and bewildered --

ignoring Sykes.  Sykes slides behind the wheel, bangs his

bumper into the car in front of him, and pushes the car

far enough forward to get around.  He speeds off.

INT./ EXT.  BLACK-AND-WHITE - FREEWAY - NIGHT

Kipling rockets up a freeway on-ramp.  Harcourt smiles

with satisfaction -- there's no sign of the slug-mobile

behind them.  Kipling eases off, blends into the flow of

traffic.

EXT.  FREEWAY - NIGHT

Sykes slaloms the slug-mobile through the civilian

traffic like Mario Andretti lapping the pack at

Indianapolis.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

Jetson spots the police unit in the right hand lane ahead.

Sykes sees it.  Thinking fast, he eases off, using another

car as a blind.  He waits until the police unit is

parallel to an off-ramp, then guns ahead and swings right,

directly for the police unit.

Kipling looks over, reacts, just as the slug-mobile

broadsides the police unit.  Sykes forces the police unit

up the off-ramp.

EXT.  INTERSECTION - NIGHT

Door handle to door handle, the two cars slue to the

right.  The police unit breaks out in front, but Sykes

stays right on its ass.  They charge up onto--

EXT.  VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - NIGHT

The police unit and slug-mobile -- bumper to bumper at 80

MPH.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

As the cars scream along, Jetson cranes out the side

window, looking in distress at the inky seawater flashing

past below.

EXT.  VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - NIGHT

They reach the far end of the bridge and skid wide onto--

EXT.  HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT

A clear two lane straightaway near the ocean.  Sykes

pushes the slug-mobile to its limits, pulls alongside the

police unit.  The two cars trade blows at 90+ MPH.

Kipling manages to send Sykes onto the dirt shoulder,

slowing him down.

INT.  BLACK-AND-WHITE - NIGHT

Kipling watches the slug-mobile in the rearview mirror,

then looks back out the front to see the end of the road

coming up fast!  Harcourt bellows to Kipling, who slams on

the brakes.

EXT.  END OF BOULEVARD - NIGHT

The police unit skids to a stop before hitting a chain

link fence where the road ends.  An abandoned drawbridge

and the ocean are on the other side of the fence.

With nowhere else to go, Harcourt yells something at

Kipling and Kipling floors it back the way they came.

EXT.  HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT

The two cars are racing for a full head-on.  At the last

instant, Sykes wrenches the wheel, throws the slug-mobile

sideways, passenger side first.  The police unit smashes

into the rear door and fender of the slug-mobile, both

cars skidding madly to a stop.  A fire ignites under the

hood of the police unit.

INT.  SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT

Sykes sits stunned behind the wheel.  Disoriented but

conscious, he raises his head, looks over... sees Jetson

out cold, his forehead gashed and bleeding.  Then he looks

over and sees the fire growing under the police unit's

hood which is crunched up against the rear of the slug-

mobile -- near the gas tank.

EXT.  HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT

Sykes slides out of the driver's door, stumbles to

Jetson's door, wrenches it open, and drags the huge

unconscious alien away from the cars.

He's still dragging Jetson away when he spots Harcourt

pulling himself through the smashed police unit window.

Bruised and bleeding, Harcourt reaches in for the

suitcase, then starts to run with it.

With Jetson a safe distance away from the cars, Sykes

clambers to his feet, draws the Casull, and starts off

after Harcourt.

Harcourt reaches the chain link fence leading to the

closed drawbridge.  He heaves the suitcase over, then

starts to climb.

Sykes lumbers past the burning police unit.  Kipling is

still behind the wheel, his head slumped forward.  Sykes

is just past the cars when they explode -- sending hoods

and door panels and glass flying in all directions.

Harcourt, on the other side of the fence, grabs the

suitcase and limps off into the shadowy world of the

abandoned drawbridge.

Sykes reaches the fence.  Instead of climbing, he simply

blows the lock to hell with the Casull, and kicks open the

gate.

EXT.  ABANDONED DRAWBRIDGE - NIGHT

The end of the bridge is in the "up" position... a huge

asphalt slab stabbing up into the night sky.  Harcourt

runs along the pools of light and dark at the edge of the

bridge, the black seawater drifting past beside him.  His

foot slips once and he almost goes over the side.

Sykes -- backlit by the burning cars, the big Casull a

prominent part of the silhouette -- just keeps coming.

Harcourt reaches the shadows at the end of the bridge --

and has nowhere to go.  He is backed into a corner, with

seawater on two side of him.  Harcourt pivots frantically,

sees Sykes coming this way.  Harcourt is a trapped animal.

His chest heaves in panic.  Then his gaze falls on the

suitcase behind him... and slowly... finally... a look of

resolve comes into his eye.

ON SYKES

He eases cautiously toward the shadows where he knows

Harcourt is.  There's some movement among the shadows, and

Sykes straight-arms the Casull, his finger white against

the trigger.

Perspiration drips into Sykes' eye, but he doesn't blink.

A long moment then--

ANGLE - THE SHADOWS

Harcourt emerges from the darkness.  His face is composed,

the superior glint is back in his eye.  His arms are held

away from his sides at 30 degree angles, clearly in

surrender.

Sykes cat-steps forward slowly.  Harcourt stares at Sykes'

eyes, and the desire there that Harcourt will give him an

excuse.  Harcourt simply... smiles.

And now Sykes sees it -- Harcourt has been holding one of

the one-kilo glass cylinders of the drug concealed behind

his arm.  He brings it up over his head, grins at Sykes,

then tilts back his head and cracks the cylinder open.

The blue gel pours into his mouth and down his chin.  His

mouth fills.

He looks back at Sykes, making eye contact... his eyes

mad, defiant.  And -- he swallows.  Long hold -- then the

wallop of the overdose hits him... his face contorts in

agony as he begins to convulse.  Sykes, wide-eyed, lowers

the Casull and watches as Harcourt drops to the ground and

goes into a massive violent seizure.  His limbs hammer

against the deck... his back arches fiercely.  It is a

brutal, agonizing ten seconds.  Then, finally, his body

becomes still.

Sykes, stunned at what he's just witnessed slowly goes to

him and takes his pulse the way he saw Jetson do it.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT - THE ENTIRE AREA

Sykes stands.  He notices the suitcase nearby, latches it,

and hefts it.  He carries it with him back toward the

inferno of the wrecked cars, the Casull hanging heavy and

cold in his hand.

ANGLE FOLLOWING SYKES

He approaches the burning cars, heading for Jetson.  As he

passes the burning cars, we have a half-second to register

that the driver's door of the police unit is now open

before--

-- a dark figure hurtles at Sykes' back from O.S.!  Sykes

is thrown forward.  The suitcase crashes to the ground,

and the Casull goes skittering off.  Sykes looks up -- to

be met by the singed and bleeding nightmare visage of

Kipling!  Kipling reaches down for the suitcase then Sykes

hears it -- the telltale CLINKING SOUND.  He looks -- and

sees the exotic silver bracelet on Kipling's wrist.  It

connects for him; this is the bandana alien -- the one who

killed Bill Tuggle!

Kipling brings the suitcase above his head.  He is a half-

second from hurling it down on Sykes' skull when -- a GUN

ROARS.  Kipling is thrown back by the chest wound.  Sykes

looks.

ANGLE

Jetson, half sitting up, holds the smoking Casull.

Kipling recovers enough to come at Sykes again with the

suitcase again.  Jetson, shaking but determined, fires

again, and again, and again.

Kipling is driven backward by the fusillade, the suitcase

still over his head... until he is blasted at last and

forever, suitcase and all, into the molten core of the

inferno.

Sykes rises, makes his way to Jetson's side.  Jetson has

let the weight of the gun carry his hand to the ground.

Sykes kneels beside him, gently taking the gun from the

alien's hand.  The two partners remain like this, bathed

in the orange flickering glow of the fire.

HIGH WIDE SHOT

of the drawbridge, the debris, the carnage, and our two

cops...

EXT.  HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT

The police mop-up is winding down.  Cop cars, coroner's

wagons, fire trucks.  We MOVE through it all to find Sykes

and Jetson seated on the curb, away from the railing.

Jetson smiles.  He glances up as they are bathed in red

and blue light.  A patrol car has pulled up next to them.

Inside is Wiltey, a uniformed cop.

SHOCK CUT - JETSON

We rapidly PUSH IN ON HIM as his head snaps around toward

Sykes.  His expression tells us his blood has just turned

to ice.

INT.  CORONER'S WAGON - NIGHT

ANGLE FORWARD, shooting from the rear of the wagon, toward

the DRIVER and ATTENDANT up front.

And, without warning, A LARGE INHUMAN HAND FLIES UP IN

F.G., having ripped through the sealed body bag just below

FRAME.

INT.  SQUAD CAR - NIGHT

Jetson is up front with Wiltey; Sykes sits in the back,

though he is on the edge of the seat, leaning forward

toward the front.  Jetson is intently, nervously scanning

ahead and to both sides.

Wiltey brakes, backs up, then turns into the side street.

ANGLE THROUGH WINDSHIELD

as they approach an eerie scene.  The coroner's wagon is

stopped at an angle in the middle of the intersection,

headlights and roof lights cutting into the night, the

back doors wide open.  A patrol car is also here, on the

other side of the wagon.  There is no movement anywhere

near the two vehicles.

Wiltey pulls the car up, his eyes like saucers at the

eerie scene.  He reaches for the radio hand mike.  Jetson

quickly covers it with a large hand.

Jetson is already sliding out of the car.

EXT.  STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHT

Jetson, Sykes, and Wiltey move warily forward, their guns

drawn.  They reach the van and Sykes takes Wiltey's

flashlight, shines it through the open back doors.  The

doors are bent outward, smashed half off their hinges.

One of the body bags is ripped open, literally split from

end to end.  The blue and red lightbar on the other patrol

car can be seen through the wagon's front windshield.

Jetson starts around the wagon toward the patrol car,

Sykes and Wiltey follow.  Lights all ablaze, it too is

abandoned.  One door has been wrenched off its hinges and

lays in the street, and the front windshield is smashed.

Our three cops approach the car, then Wiltey spots

something beyond the unit.

Sykes and Jetson look.

The bodies of the coroner wagon Driver and Attendant, as

well as the two OFFICERS from the patrol car, are crushed

and beaten and stretched out on the asphalt.  Their arms

are twisted as though by a mad force -- each pointing down

the street toward the dock warehouses ahead.  Wiltey

stumbles away, backward.

But Wiltey is going.  Jetson starts after him... but Sykes

grabs his arm, hard, and spins him.

EXT.  STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHT

One minute later.  OPEN CLOSE on a light shining into

CAMERA, then WIDEN to reveal it is one of the door-mounted

spotlights on Wiltey's patrol car.  Wiltey eases the car

down the center of the street.  Sykes and Jetson, guns

ready, walk slowly along on either side of the car... eyes

everywhere.

MOVING POV

as they move past the shadowy dock warehouses... watching

for any signs of movement.

BACK TO SCENE

Sykes and Jetson converse across the hood of the car as

they walk.  Their eyes everywhere.

Sykes looks across at Jetson's troubled expression.

Just then, Wiltey spots a flit of movement cutting across

his headlight beams fifty yards ahead.  Whatever it was,

was large and fast.  It darted into an open warehouse

door.

And Wiltey floors it.  Sykes and Jetson watch, unable to

stop him.

He and Sykes take off running.  Wiltey skids to the left,

rockets in through the open warehouse door, out of sight.

Sykes and Jetson pour it on.  They hear a SCREECH OF

BRAKES.  They reach the warehouse door and race through.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

LOW ANGLE, SHOOTING ACROSS the underside of Wiltey's

stopped patrol car as Sykes' and Jetson's feet appear

around the corner of the warehouse door.  The car is still

running -- the exhaust pipe still RUMBLING and expelling

fumes.  The feet slow... then cautiously start around the

car.  We PAN with them as they move around the side of the

car.  A dark liquid begins dripping in EXTREME F.G.  We

MOVE UP, to a CLOSE UP of the car bumper.  The dark liquid

is blood, dripping deep red on the shiny chrome.  We MOVE

UP farther, and--

-- there is Wiltey's severed head.  IN CLOSE UP, resting

on the hood of the patrol car.

Sykes and Jetson stop dead at the sight.  Wiltey's body

lies in a heap on the floor near the car.  They both

stare, then Sykes looks around the shadowy interior of the

warehouse, his expression saying: what the hell could have

done this so fast?

THEIR POV

There are two paths to go.  Both dark and scary as hell.

The sound of a distant FOG HORN blends with the CREAKS and

DRIPS of this waterfront building.

ANGLE - SYKES AND JETSON

Jetson reaches into the patrol car and pulls the shotgun

from the dash mount.  He checks the chamber as Sykes

checks the Casull.

They exchange a knowing look... then wordlessly, they

split up.  Sykes takes the path to the left, Jetson to the

right.

WITH JETSON

As he moves into a dark area.  He slowly picks his way

along a long wall, having to step over all sorts of piled

debris, heading toward us.  We PAN slightly to the left to

HOLD a door in CLOSE UP.  The door, already ajar, eases

open slightly wider.  Jetson hears this.  He reaches the

door, sets himself, then spins and kicks the door open all

the way.  There's nothing inside... now.

Jetson looks up, sees movement in the distance.  It is

Sykes, quite far away, in another section of the

warehouse.  Sykes leaves Jetson's field of view.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - GUARD'S AREA - NIGHT

Sykes walks around a corner -- freezes, and cocks his head

as he hears VOICES -- followed, curiously, by LAUGHTER.

He eases forward, peers around a bend, and sees -- a table

and a chair.  On the table is a mini-television, tuned to

some local late night talk show.  There's a thermos, a

steaming cup of coffee, and a Twinkie with a single bite

out of it beside the TV.  The chair is empty, except for a

jacket slung across the back, the word SECURITY stitched

on the breast.  The guard is nowhere in sight.

Sykes moves toward the table, taking in this eerie sight.

He looks around, then continues on.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - APPROACHING STAIRS - NIGHT

Jetson moves among the dark nooks and crannies, comes to a

set of stairs leading to an upper floor.  The top of the

stairs is pitch black.  Jetson adjusts his grip on the

shotgun, slowly starts up the stairs.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - AT FISH NETS - NIGHT

Sykes comes to rack upon rack of drying fish nets, hanging

from the ceiling.  He has no alternate route -- he begins

pushing through them.

SYKES' POV - MOVING THROUGH FISH NETS

Because of the dimness, he can't see much beyond each rack

of nets immediately before him.  He keeps wading through

-- it's like a house of mirrors, he can't tell now much

farther he has to go to get out of the nets, and the

deeper in he gets, the harder it would be to go back the

way he came.  He pushes past one particular rack of nets

and looming out of the darkness ahead of him is--

-- a terrifying face!

ON SYKES

He stumbles back, gets tangled in the nets, brings up the

Casull, is about to fire when... he sees what the face is.

It's the maiden's figurehead from the bow of an old ship.

The wood is worm-eaten and decayed, creating a hideous

visage.  Sykes stands there a moment, trying to jump-start

his heart again.

INT.  SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT

Jetson moves along the rickety planks.  He comes to a

door.  He eases it open, enters.

INT.  SECOND FLOOR ROOM - NIGHT

Jetson moves into the shadowy confines.  He hears an

incessant drip from a sink faucet in the corner.  He moves

to it.  Turns the spigot, stopping the drip.  Other drips

are HEARD from a dozen other hidden recesses all around

him.  He glances up at the filthy mirror attached to the

wall above the sink.  Suddenly he sees the movement of

something behind him.  He spins with the shotgun.  A huge

shadow moves along the wall.  He pivots the shotgun again

-- toward the source of the shadow.

It's a length of black tarp, torn and flapping from the

ceiling.  Jetson lets out a deep breath.

INT.  STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

ANGLE down a short passageway to an intersecting hallway.

A strand of something hangs in FRAME in OUT OF FOCUS F.G.

It makes an indistinct, rhythmic CLINKING SOUND.  Sykes

moves along the intersecting hallway.  The CLINKING SOUND

catches his attention.  He stops, listens, then starts

down the passageway, toward us.

He comes forward into the storage room, having to get very

close to the strand of something before he sees what it

is.  It's a double strand of chain, CLINKING gently

against itself.  Sykes reaches out, steadies the chain,

silencing it.  He considers.  It could've been a natural

occurrence... or something could have brushed against it,

setting it in motion.  He tightens his grip on the Casull,

backing away from the chain.  He senses something behind

him and spins.  Nothing there.  He relaxes.  However--

Behind him now, in SOFT FOCUS, we glimpse movement at the

other end of the short passageway.  It is a figure, moving

slowly forward down the passageway, back-lit by the

hallway light behind it, its shadow filling the passageway

as it approaches Sykes.  It stops, inside the room now,

directly behind Sykes.  Close enough to reach out and

touch him.  It is an alien silhouette, but larger, more

powerful.

Suddenly, Sykes senses something is there.  He turns,

slowly, and--

SHOCK CUT - HARCOURT

as he steps from the shadows -- just like he did the last

time Sykes saw him on the abandoned drawbridge.  Only this

time it is a horribly transformed Harcourt.  His eyes are

red-rimmed and piggish.  His head is lumpen, his skin

thick and hard.  His neck muscles are corded -- giving him

a kind of hellish cobra's cowl.  There is still

intelligence behind the eyes -- but it is a feral

intelligence now.

Sykes stumbles back several steps, wildly brings up the

Casull, and fires.  The powerful Casull round catches

Harcourt in the shoulder, jerking him back.

EXT.  WORK SHED AREA - NIGHT

Jetson, in another area of the docks, hears the echoing

blast of the Casull.  He gauges as best he can the

direction it came from and takes off running.

INT.  STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

Harcourt recovers from the jolt of the bullet impact.  The

cloth of his disheveled shirt is shredded and powder-

burned, but the bullet couldn't pierce his plated skin.

Harcourt smiles with grotesquely altered teeth, starts

toward Sykes.

Scared shitless, Sykes rapid-fires.  One of his shots

misses, shattering a crate beside Harcourt's head.  The

remaining shots strike Harcourt full on.  Harcourt is

jerked by the impact of the bullets each time, SNARLING in

anger -- but none of the hits stop him.  The Casull is

empty and Harcourt keeps coming.

Sykes stumbles back, but Harcourt is on him in a flash.

Harcourt grabs Sykes' arm holding the gun, yanks hard.  We

HEAR the POP as the shoulder dislocates.  Sykes HOLLERS,

and the gun jumps out of his hand.

INT.  WAREHOUSE - GUARD'S AREA - NIGHT

Jetson races in, shotgun ready.  The last of Sykes' shots

are still ECHOING.  Jetson looks around, frustrated,

unable to tell exactly where they are coming from.  He

sees the likely path and charges that way.

EXT.  DOCK - AT STAIRS - NIGHT

On the CUT, Sykes' body is already tumbling down these

rickety stairs attached to the side of the warehouse,

having been thrown ruthlessly from above.  As Sykes' body

sprawls on the dock, the massive figure of Harcourt

appears at the top of the stairs.

Sykes, scraped and bruised, struggles to his feet.

Harcourt moves down the stairs, then vaults over the

railing the last fifteen feet.  Harcourt lurches forward

and, with a taloned grip on Sykes' shoulders, propels him

down the docks.

EXT.  STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHT

The first two arriving black-and-whites skid to stops at

the coroner's wagon.  The Officers leap out, flagging

other arriving units to continue on toward the warehouses.

EXT.  DOCKS - NIGHT

Sykes is on his feet, but his knees buckle, and he almost

collapses again.  Harcourt comes at him.  Then Sykes sees

it--

-- a fishing boat chugging along past the end of one of

the jetties.  Sykes makes a break for it.

EXT.  WAREHOUSE - AT STAIRS - NIGHT

Jetson charges out at the top of the rickety stairs,

frantically scanning for any sign of Sykes.  Then, in the

distance, he spots the two figures running along the jetty

-- Sykes being chased by the re-formed Harcourt.  Jetson

gives the water surrounding the docks an apprehensive

look, then gathers up his courage, and races down the

stairs to help Sykes.

EXT.  JETTY - NIGHT

Sykes lumbers along the narrow jetty.  The fishing boat is

already passing the end of the jetty.  Harcourt is fast

behind Sykes as he reaches the end of the jetty and vaults

off toward the stern of the boat -- landing on the fishing

net piled on the rear deck.  He yells in pain as his ankle

twists under his weight.

EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

Sykes lies there, holding his arm, breathing hard,

relieved that he has escaped.

EXT.  JETTY - NIGHT

Harcourt can't reach the boat from the same jetty Sykes

did, so he jumps on a platform beside this jetty, then

onto a second jetty.  And from here, he vaults across the

seawater onto the boat.

EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

Sykes sees the phantom figure land on the boat near the

cabin.  The fishing boat chugs up the channel toward the

open sea.

EXT.  DOCKS - NIGHT

Jetson sees this and is shitting bricks.  Suddenly the

stark BEAM of a police helicopter sun-gun stabs down from

above.  Jetson looks up to see the chopper coming in low,

the sun-gun washing over the docks.

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

The sun-gun hits Jetson standing on the dock, frantically

waving his badge at the 'copter, signaling it down.  The

Pilot starts to take it down.

EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

Sykes is on all fours, clawing his way up the fishing net

toward the back of the boat.  Harcourt gets one hand on

his leg.  Sykes jerks his leg away, and Harcourt's claws

dig deep through Sykes' pants into his legs as he pulls

away.  Sykes BELLOWS in pain.

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Jetson is barely in the seat as it lifts away from the

dock.  He has to catch himself from falling out the open

door.  Below, uniformed cops are now seen rushing out onto

the dock.

Jetson indicates the fishing boat headed toward the mouth

of the channel.  The helicopter tilts forward and goes.

EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

Sykes manages to pull himself up into the dinghy hanging

over the stern of the fishing boat.  He pushes to the back

of the dinghy as Harcourt's savage visage appears at the

bow.  Harcourt grins -- the predator with his prey

trapped.

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Jetson's face is bathed in sweat as he looks out at the

channel water racing past beneath.  They come up on the

boat and the Pilot plays the sun-gun onto the deck,

looking for movement, finally pinning Sykes and Harcourt

at the stern dinghy.

EXT.  BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

The Captain reacts to the helicopter overhead, looks back

at what the sun-gun spotlights.  He sees Harcourt standing

at the bow of the dinghy, starting to clamber in.

EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

Harcourt turns, sees the Captain on the bridge above him.

He reaches for a wood-handled gaff nearby.  He rears back

with it and lets it fly like a spear.

EXT.  BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

The gaff impales the Captain, off-center in his chest.

The Captain, his face frozen in shock, is thrown back

against the throttle.  The boat lunges forward as the

engines REV loudly.

EXT.  FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

Harcourt is thrown into the dinghy with Sykes.  As

Harcourt recovers, Sykes spots the release for the tie

line on the dinghy.  He lunges forward, throwing the

ratchet.  The line plays out, and the dinghy slides

backward into water!

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Jetson watches this happen.

EXT.  DINGHY - NIGHT

The dinghy bangs along (at the end of the ten foot tie

line) in the wake of the speeding fishing boat.

Harcourt claws his way toward Sykes.  Water is already

splashing in over the stern transom... the dinghy is

sinking.  Harcourt grabs Sykes' leg and pulls him toward

him.  Sykes holds on to the stern cleats with all his

might.  Harcourt yanks him free.  Sykes kicks wildly at

the ratchet release, trying to free the remainder of the

line.  Harcourt is coming in for the kill when--

-- Sykes' foot connects with the ratchet lever.  The rest

of the tie line snakes through the ratchet, freeing the

dinghy from the fishing boat!

The dinghy is rocking wildly, sinking fast.  A wave from

the fishing boat's wake splashes in over the side.  Some

of it hits Harcourt -- he HOWLS and falls away.  Sykes

sees this, tries to clamber over the side, but Harcourt is

on him again.  Sykes' body weight at the side of the

dinghy coupled with the rocking motion cause more water to

wash in over the transom.

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Jetson reacts to Sykes and Harcourt battling in the dinghy

below.

EXT.  DINGHY - NIGHT

Harcourt, who is getting more and more wet, HOWLS in

agony, thick blood beginning to bead wherever the water

touches.  Sykes is taking one hell of a beating.  Harcourt

sweeps Sykes up in a bear hug, is about to crush his rib

cage, when Sykes shifts his body weight, knocking Harcourt

off balance.  Harcourt wobbles, fear on his face for the

first time -- then he finally loses it, and the two of

them tumble overboard into the water, capsizing the

dinghy.

EXT.  WATER - NIGHT

Sykes breaks the surface, gasping for air, frantically

clawing with his one good arm at the wedge of dinghy still

above the water.  Suddenly, behind him, Harcourt's

partially melted form erupts from the water, lunges on top

of Sykes, and drags him under.

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Jetson hangs in the open door, watching in horror, wanting

to help, knowing he can't.

EXT.  WATER - NIGHT

Sykes breaks the surface, Harcourt's misshapen lump of a

body unmoving but still on top of him.  Sykes shoves it

away, struggling to stay afloat.  His head keeps dunking

under.  He's drowning.

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Jetson screws up his courage and turns to the Pilot.

EXT.  WATER AND HELICOPTER - NIGHT

The helicopter moves down toward the turbulent water.

Jetson hangs in the doorway, watching Sykes' head dunking

under again.  The helicopter's skids are three feet above

the water.

Sykes' outreached hand stretches up from the water, but

the skid is just too high.  Jetson has no alternative, and

he does the bravest thing he has ever done.  He moves out

onto the narrow helicopter skid.  Hanging on, three feet

above the water, he reaches down for Sykes' up reaching

hand.

The fingertips of the two hands waver mere inches from

each other... Jetson stretches farther, farther... and the

two hands meet!  Jetson winces from the pain of the

seawater on Sykes' hand.  He starts pulling Sykes up.

When--

HARCOURT'S HEAD BREAKS THE SURFACE A FOOT FROM SYKES'

FACE.  His eye sockets are empty and his skin is mostly

gone.  The nearly skeletal body heaves blindly onto Sykes,

breaking his grip from Jetson's, and dragging him under

again.

Jetson is frantic.  He keeps waiting -- but this time

Sykes doesn't come up.  Jetson doesn't know what to do.

Finally -- he leans down as far as he can, his face a foot

from the water, SCREAMS to block the pain, and plunges his

own arm below the surface!  He feels around, gets hold of

something, and pulls.  It is Sykes' wrist.  He pulls hard,

bringing the sputtering Sykes up out of the water.

The Pilot does.  Sykes comes up out of the water.  His

feet are just clear of the surface when -- Harcourt's hand

and arm rocket out of the water, grabbing Sykes' ankle.

Sykes looks down in horror.  The helicopter keeps moving

up, and before Harcourt's body breaks the surface, the arm

tears away from the torso at the shoulder.  Sykes wildly

shakes the clinging severed arm from his ankle, and it

falls back into the water below.

Jetson continues pulling him up into the helicopter as it

moves off toward shore.

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Sykes plops on the floor, soaked, battered, holding his

limp arm.  Jetson is quickly whipping off his jacket,

wrapping the dry part around his own arm, wincing in pain.

The Pilot stare down at the circle of water where they

just pulled Sykes from.

Jetson looks at Sykes, wondering if he will say.  Sykes

looks at Jetson a long moment, then--

Despite the pain, Jetson smiles.

INT.  CHURCH ANTEROOM - DAY

We are CLOSE on Sykes, who is having a hell of a time,

trying to tie a tuxedo tie with one arm in a sling.  A

PAIR OF ALIEN ARMS reach into FRAME to help him.  One of

the alien arms is also in a sling.

ANGLE WIDENS to reveal the alien is Jetson.  Both men wear

tuxedos.

There's a knock at the door.  Sykes opens it.  There

stands Sykes' daughter, KRISTIN, twenty years old, looking

radiant in her wedding dress.  She is in a foyer, and

behind her is the interior of the church with all the

assembled guests, including Mrs. Jetson & son.

Sykes' heart melts.  Before moving to the door:

Sykes moves to join his daughter.  As he does:

Sykes, caught off guard, has to laugh.

Sykes takes his daughter's arm and the two of them start

down the aisle.

