<b><!--

</b>

<b>/*

</b>Break-out-of-frames script

By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com)

Over 400+ free scripts here!

Above notice MUST stay entact for use

<b>*/

</b>

if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

All About Eve

FADE IN:

INT. DINING HALL - SARAH SIDDONS SOCIETY - NIGHT

It is not a large room and jammed with tables, mostly for

four but some for six and eight. A long table of honor, for

about thirty people, has been placed upon a dais.

Diner is over. Demi-tasses, cigars and brandy. The overall

effect is one of worn elegance and dogged gentility. It is

June.

The CAMERA, as it has been throughout the CREDIT TITLES, is

on the SARAH SIDDONS AWARD. It is a gold statuette, about a

foot high, of Sarah Siddons as The Tragic Muse. Exquisitely

framed in a nest of flowers, it rests on a miniature altar in

the center of the table of honor.

Over this we hear the crisp, cultured, precise VOICE of

ADDISON deWITT:

The CAMERA has EASED BACK to include some of the table of

honor and a distinguished gentleman with snow-white hair who

is speaking. We do not hear what he says.

The CAMERA EASES BACK some more, and CONTINUES until it

discloses a fairly COMPREHENSIVE SHOT of the room

A GROUP OF WAITERS are clustered near the screen masking the

entrances of the kitchen. The screens are papered with old

theatrical programs. The waiters are all aged and venerable.

They look respectfully toward the speaker.

CLOSE - THE AWARD on its altar, it shines proudly above five

or six smaller altars which surround it and which are now

empty.

THE CAMERA MOVES TO: CLOSE - ADDISON deWITT, not young, not

unattractive, a fastidious dresser, sharp of eye and

merciless of tongue. An omnipresent cigarette holder projects

from his mouth like the sward of D'Artagnan.

He sits back in his chair, musingly, his fingers making

little cannonballs out of bread crumbs. His narration covers

the MOVE of the CAMERA to him:

He looks to his left. KAREN RICHARDS is lovely and thirtyish

in an unprofessional way. She is scraping bread crumbs,

spilled sugar, etc., into a pile with a spoon. Addison takes

one of her bread crumbs. She smiles absently. Addison rolls

the bread crumb into a cannonball.

Karen continues her doodling.

Karen absently pats the top of her little pile of refuse. A

hand reaches in to take the spoon away. Karen looks as the

CAMERA PANS with IT to MAX FABIAN. He sits at her left. He's

a sad-faced man with glasses and a look of constant

apprehension. He smiles apologetically and indicated a white

powder with he unwraps. He pantomimes that his ulcer is

snapping.

Karen smiles back, returns to her doodling. Addison mashes a

cigarette stub, pops it out of his holder. He eyes Max.

Max drops the powder into some water, stirs it, drinks, burps

delicately and close his eyes.

Max rests fitfully. He twitches. A hand reaches into the

SCENE, removes a bottle of Scotch from before him. The CAMERA

follows the bottle to MARGO CHANNING. She sits at Max's left,

at deWitt's right. An attractive, strong face. She is

childish, adult, reasonable, unreasonable - usually one when

she should be the other, but always positive. She pours a

stiff drink.

Addison hold out the soda bottle to her. She looks at it, and

at him, as if it were a tarantula and he had gone mad. He

smiles and pours a glass of soda for himself.

Margo sloshes her drink around moodily, pulls at it.

Addison, having sipped his soda water, puts a new cigarette

in his holder, leans back, lights it, looks and exhales in

the general direction of the table of honor. As he speaks the

CAMERA MOVES in the direction of his glance...

At this point Addison's voice FADES OUT and the voice of the

aged actor FADES IN. CAMERA is in MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT of him

and the podium.

EVE HANDS: Lovely, beautifully groomed. In serene repose,

they rest between a demi-tasse cup and an exquisite small

evening cup.

Addison's eyes narrow quizzically as he listens. Then,

slowly, he turns to look at Karen...

Karen never ceases her thoughtful pat-a-cake with the crumbs.

Addison's glance moves from Karen to Margo.

Margo's face is a mask. She looks down at the drink which she

cradles with both hands.

The entire room is galvanized into sudden and tumultuous

applause. Some enthusiastic gentlemen rise to her feet...

Flash bulbs start popping about halfway down the table of the

Aged Actor's left...

Eve rises - beautiful, radiant, poised, exquisitely gowned.

She stands in simple and dignified response to the ovation.

A dozen photographers skip, squat, and dart about like water

bugs. Flash bulbs pop and pop and pop...

THE WAITERS applaud enthusiastically...

AGED ACTOR, Award in hand, he beams at her...

EVE smiles sweetly to her left, then to her right...

MAX has come to. He applauds lustily.

ADDISON's applauding too, more discreetly.

MARGO, not applauding. But you sense no deliberate slight,

merely an impression that as she looks at Eve her mind is on

something else...

KAREN, nor is she applauding. But her gaze is similarly fixed

on Eve in a strange, faraway fashion.

ADDISON, still applauding, his eyes flash first at Margo and

then at Karen. Then he directs them back to Eve. He smiles

ever so slightly.

The applause has continued unabated. EVE turns now, and moves

gracefully toward the Aged Actor. She moves through

applauding ladies and gentlemen; from below the flash bulbs

keep popping...

As she nears her goal, the Ages Actor turns to her. He holds

out the award. Her hand reaches out for it. At that precise

moment - with the award just beyond her fingertips - THE

PICTURE HOLDS, THE ACTION STOPS. The SOUND STOPS.

ADDISON has stopped applauding, he's sitting forward, staring

intently at Eve... his narration continues unbroken.

As he leans back, the APPLAUSE FADES IN as tumultuous as

before. Addison's look moves slowly from Eve to Karen.

KAREN, she leans forward now, her eyes intently on Eve. Her

lovely face FILLS THE SCREEN as the APPLAUSE FADES ONCE MORE -

as she thinks back:

EXT. NEW YORK THEATER STREET - NIGHT

Traffic is not heavy, the shows have broken some half-hour

before. The rain is just a drizzle.

There are other theaters on the street; display lights are

being extinguished. Going out just as Karen's taxi pulls up

is: MARGO CHANNING in 'AGED IN WOOD'. The marquis display

below includes "Max Fabian Presents" and "By Lloyd Richards."

The taxi comes to a stop at the alley. Karen can be seen

through the closed windows telling the driver to wait. Then

she gets out. She takes a step, hesitates, then looks about

curiously:

She smiles a little at her own romanticism, puts her head

down and makes her way into the alley.

EXT. ALLEY - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT

Karen moves toward the stage door. She passes a recess in the

wall - perhaps an exit - about halfway.

Karen hesitates, looks. Eve is barely distinguishable in the

shadow of the recess. Karen smiles, waits. Eve comes out. A

gooseneck light above them reveals her...

She wears a cheap trench coat, low-heeled shoes, a rain hat

stuck on the back of her head... Her large, luminous eyes

seem to glow up at Karen in the strange half-light.

Karen contemplates Eve. Then she takes her arm.

Karen practically propels her toward the stage door.

Karen opens the door. They go in.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT

Everything, including the doorman, looks fireproof.

Eve enters like a novitiate's first visit to the Vatican.

Karen, with a "Good evening, Gus -" to the doorman, leads the

way toward Margo's stage dressing room. Eve, drinking in the

wonderment of all the surveys, lags behind. Karen waits for

her to catch up...

Karen smiles, takes Eve's arm. They proceed to Margo's

dressing room.

EXT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT

No star on the closed door; the paint is peeling. A type

written chit, thumbtacked, says MISS CHANNING.

As Karen and Eve approach it, an uninhibited guffaw from

Margo makes them pause.

Eve smiles shakily. At the same moment:

Karen enters during the line.

INT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT

It is a medium-sized box, lined with hot water pipes and

cracked plaster. It is furnished in beat-up wicker. A door

leads to an old-fashioned bathroom.

Margo is at the dressing table. She wears an old wrapper, her

hair drawn back tightly to fit under the wig which lies

before her like a dead poodle. Also before her is an almost

finished drink.

LLOYD RICHARDS is stretched out on the wicker chaise. He's in

his late thirties, sensitive, literate.

Between them, by the dressing table, is BIRDIE - Margo's

maid. Her age is unimportant. She was conceived during a

split week in Walla Walla and born in a carnival riot. She is

fiercely loyal to Margo.

Karen enters during the line Margo started while she was

outside. Lloyd chuckles, Birdie cackles.

Karen laughs with them.

She takes the wig into the bathroom. Margo starts creaming

the make-up off her face.

Birdie comes out of the bathroom without the wig.

She picks up Lloud empty glass, asks "more"? He shakes his

head. She pours herself a quick one.

There is a pause. Lloyd applauds lightly.

Birdie starts. Karen stops her. It's all in whisper, now,

until Eve comes in.

She looks to Birdie.

They all laugh. Karen goes to the door, opens it. Eve comes

in. Karen closes the door behind her. A moment.

Margo changes swiftly into a first-lady-of-the-theater

manner.

She goes into the bathroom.

She sits. A short lull.

They start together, and stop in deference to each other.

They're a little flustered. But not Eve.

Eve looks at Margo, then drops her eyes.

Eve pauses. Then shakes her head.

Eve looks at her - grateful because Karen called her "Eve."

Then away, again...

Birdie comes out of the bathroom. Everybody looks at her

sharply. She realizes she's in on something important. She

closes the door quietly, leans against it.

Eve looks at her unsmilingly, then back to her hands.

Eve speaks simply and without self-pity.

She finishes dry-eyes and self-composed. Margo squeezes the

bridge of her nose, dabs at her eyes.

That breaks the spell. Margo turns to her-

She slams into the bathroom again. At that precise instant

BILL SAMPSON flings open the door to the dressing room. He's

youngish, vital, undisciplined. He lugs a beat-up suitcase

which he drops as he crosses to Margo-

Bill grins suddenly, drops to one knee beside her.

Bill flashes a fleeting look at Eve.

Bill grins, rises, sees Eve as if for the first time.

Birdie shuts it and goes into the bathroom. In a moment we

hear a shower start to run. Eve gets up.

Margo, impulsively crosses to Eve.

She darts into the bathroom. Eve sits down again.

Lloyd gets up. Karen crosses to pound on the bathroom door.

She yells - the shower is going...

Margo's answer is lost in the shower noise. Karen crosses to

kiss Bill. She's joined by Lloyd.

They shake hands warmly. Karen and Lloyd move to Eve.

Lloyd shakes her hand, crosses to join Karen who waits at the

open dressing room door.

Karen smiles warmly. She closes the door. They leave.

INT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Eve sits on the same chair. Bill keeps moving around. Eve

never takes her eyes off him. He offers her a cigarette. She

shakes her head. He looks at his watch.

He goes to the dressing table, picks up Margo's pocketbook,

opens it. He finds a letter. He glances at it, puts it back.

There's a sudden sharp yelp from the bathroom.

Bill grins.

He sprawls on the chaise, closes his eyes. A pause.

Bill grunts in the affirmative. Silence.

He lies down again.

A pause.

Margo, putting on an earring, buzzes out of the bathroom

followed by Birdie. Bill sits up.

She grabs her pocketbook, starts rummaging. Out comes the

letter...

Margo drops it in the wastebasket, keeps rummaging.

She goes behind the chaise. She comes up with a magnificent

mink.

Margo starts to straighten them.

By now she's in the coat and has Eve's arm, heading for the

door. Bill puts his arms around Birdie.

Bill kisses her cheek. She kisses Bill.

Margo and Eve precede Bill out of the door...

EXT. LAGUARDIA FIELD - NIGHT

American Airlines baggage counter. The rain has stopped, but

it's wet.

Margo, Eve, and Bill are stymied behind two or three couples

waiting to be checked in. Margo's arm is through Bill's. They

become increasingly aware of their imminent separation. Eve

senses her superfluity.

A lull. Bill cranes at the passenger heading the line, in

earnest conversation with the dispatcher. He sighs.

The man up ahead moves on.

Bill hands Eve the ticket. Margo smiles gratefully at her.

Eve smiles back.

EXT. PASSAGE AND GATE - LAGUARDIA - NIGHT

It's covered, with glass windows. Margo's arm is in Bill's.

Bill pauses and pulls her to one side. Some passengers go by.

A pause.

He starts to kiss her, stops when he becomes aware of Eve

standing near them. She has his ticket in her hand.

She hands Bill his ticket, they start toward the gate.

INT. BOARDING GATE - LAGUARDIA - NIGHT

The D.C. 6 in the b.g. A few visitors. Bill hands his ticket

to the guard, turns to Eve.

Bill puts his arms around Margo.

They kiss. Margo's arms tighten desperately. Bill pulls away,

kisses her again lightly, starts for the plane. Margo turns

away. Eve puts her arms through Margo's.

Bill pauses en route to the plane.

Margo turns to look at him with Eve.

Eve looks at Margo. Margo smiles.

Bill waves, climbs aboard. The door is closed behind him, the

departure routine starts...

Margo and eve turn to go. They walk down the passage. As they

walk, Eve gently disengages her arm from Margo's and puts it

comfortingly about her...

INT. DINING HALL - NIGHT

MARGO slides her fingers reflectively up and down the sides

of the almost empty highball glass.

ADDISON eyeing her quizzically. He offers her the whiskey.

MARGO shakes her head, absently. She looks down at her glass

again. Then, she raises her eyes to look at Eve.

INT. MARGO'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

It's one floor above street level. A long narrow room,

smartly furnished - including a Sarah Siddons Award.

MARGO'S NARRATIVE overlaps into the scene which is a SILENT

ONE.

Eve sits at a smart desk. She is just arranging a stack of

letters which she carries to Margo with a pen. Margo sits

comfortably by the fire with a play script. She hands the

scrips up to Eve, shakes her head and holds her nose. Eve

smiles, takes the script, hands Margo the letters to sign.

Birdie comes in with a tea tray which she sets on a low table

before the fire.

The phone rings.

Birdie and Eve both go for it. Eve gets there first. By her

polite but negative attitude, we know she is giving someone a

skillful brush-off.

Birdie glares first at her, then at Margo.

Margo leans her head back, closes her eyes blissfully...

Birdie slams the double door to the landing on her way out...

INT. BACKSTAGE - CURRAN THEATER - DAY

From the wings. The audience is never visible. Eve in the

f.g. Margo and company taking a curtain call. Tumultuous

applause... the curtain falls. The cast, except for Margo and

two male leads, walk off. The curtain rises again...

EVE, watching and listening to the storm of applause. Her

eyes shine, she clasps and unclasps her hands...

THE STAGE, Eve again in the f.g., but closer. Again the

curtain falls. This time the two men go off. Curtain rises on

Margo alone. If anything, the applause builds...

EVE, that same hypnotic look... there are tears in her eyes.

The curtain falls offscene, then rises again -

MARGO, the curtain falls again between her and CAMERA...

BACKSTAGE, the curtain just settling on the floor. Margo

starts off.

She walks as she talks and winds up at Eve - still in the

wings. Eve's eyes are wet, she dabs at her nose.

She takes Eve's arm, they stroll toward her dressing room.

They're at her dressing room by now. Margo's been unhooking

her gown, with Eve's help. They go in.

INT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

It's undergone quite a change. A new carpet, chintz covers

for the furniture, new lampshades, dainty curtains across the

filthy barred window.

Birdie waits within. She's listening to a fight; she shuts it

off as they enter.

Margo's out of her wig and dress by now. She gets into her

robe, sits at the dressing table. Eve's on the chaise, by the

discarded costume.

A pause. Eve rises, picking up Margo's costume.

And she goes out with the costume. Birdie opens her mouth,

shuts it, then opens it again.

As she talks, Margo hurries to the door and out after Eve.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT

Margo pops out, looks for Eve, then stares in amazement.

EVE, near the wings. She stands before a couple of cheval

mirrors set up for cast members. She has Margo's dress held

up against her body. She turns this way and that, bows as if

to applause - mimicking Margo exactly...

MARGO watches her curiously. Then she smiles.

EVE, startled, whips the gown away, turns to Margo.

MARGO smiles understandingly.

Wordlessly, Eve brings it toward her...

INT. MARGO'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Margo's asleep. A bedside clock with a luminous dial reads 3

A.M. exactly. The phone rings. Her head comes up out of the

pillow, she shakes it. She fumbles, switches on a lamp, then

picks up the phone.

Margo jumps at his vehemence. As she does so, the SCREEN

WIPES DOWN DIAGONALLY LEFT TO RIGHT, so that Margo remains in

the lower right-hand diagonal of the screen and Bill is

disclosed in the upper left. He, too, is in bed, reading. His

clock says midnight.

Margo's eyes pop. Her jaw and the phone sag.

Margo knows damn well it wasn't she.

Margo hangs up. Bill hangs up. He replaces the phone, picks

up his book... SLOW WIPE until ONLY MARGO is on screen. She

puts her phone away. She gets a cigarette. She lights it. She

rolls over on her back...

INT. MARGO'S BEDROOM - DAY

Margo is propped up in bed, still reflective. Birdie comes in

with her breakfast tray and a "hi" which gets a "hi" from

Margo. She starts on some petty chores. Margo takes a sip of

orange juice...

Birdie stops whatever it is she's doing.

There is a sharp, brisk knock. Eve comes in. She's dressed in

a smart suit. She carries a leather portfolio.

Margo says "good morning," Birdie says nothing. Eve shows off

the suit, proudly.

And she's gone. Margo stares at the closed door. Then at

Birdie. Birdie, without comment, goes out. Margo, alone,

looks down at her orange juice. Absently, she twirls it in

its bed of shaved ice...

INT. DINING HALL - SARAH SIDDONS SOCIETY - NIGHT

MARGO, reflectively twirling her highball glass. The applause

continues. She lifts her glass to drink. Her glance meets

Karen's. She raises the glass in a silent toast.

KAREN smiles wanly at Margo's toast. Then the smile fades as

she looks reflectively back to Eve...

INT. MARGO'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's January. The bed is littered with fur coats. Through the

open door, from the floor below, the murmur of a party at a

late hour. No hilarity.

Karen is making repairs at Margo's dressing table. Eve

enters, carrying a magnificent sable coat which she drops on

the bed.

Eve melts into warmth. She beams, sits on the bed. Karen has

spun around on the dressing table stool.

She starts out.

She looks down at the coverlet once more.

Eve smiles a little. A pause.

She hugs Karen, leaves. She nearly collides with Birdie on

her way in.

They start out.

Through the open door, we see them go down the stairs and out

of sight.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING AND STAIRS - NIGHT

Karen and Birdie come down the stairs to Bill, Max, Addison,

a blonde young lady named MISS CASWELL (Addison's protegee-of

the-moment) - and, at the feet of Bill and Addison... Eve.

They are all seated on the steps.

Birdie goes through and down the stairs to the first floor.

Karen remains with the others.

Addison is holding forth:

The butler goes right by.

Max leaves with her empty glass.

Eve speaks almost unaware of what she says. She looks at no

one in particular, just off...

She becomes aware of Addison's strange smile, of Bill's looks

of warm interest. She's embarrassed, she turns away - then

scrambles to her feet as Margo approaches with Lloyd from the

direction of the pantry.

Margo's had too much to drink. Her fake smile fades as Eve

gets up. She's unpleasant and depressed.

Max has come up with Miss Caswell's drink.

As she speaks, she makes her way to Lloyd's side.

She starts upstairs.

She goes up, exits out of sight. A pause. Miss Caswell

reaches up to take the drink out of Max's hand.

Bill gets up and goes after Margo...

Eve turns away abruptly, in sudden tears.

She crosses to Eve, puts an arm around her.

Karen smiles back. She joins Lloyd and Max.

They laugh, say "good night," and start downstairs. As Eve

crosses to Addison:

She follows the men downstairs. CLOSE UP of an old engraving

of Mrs. Siddons as 'The Tragic Muse' which hangs among other

theatrical mementos on the stair wall...

INT. DINING HALL - SARAH SIDDONS SOCIETY - NIGHT

The applause continues. Margo sits back in her chair now,

picking at a bit of fingernail polish...

INT. MARGO'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The same night as the previous sequence, but before the party

has started. Margo is all dressed except for jewelry. She

stands before her dressing table putting it on. She sips at

an enormous Martini...

Birdie comes in.

Her glance meets Birdie's. She turns and strolls out.

INT. THIRD FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT

Margo speeds up going down the stairs.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT

Margo shows up again deliberately as she reaches the landing.

Sound of Bill and Eve laughing together from the living room.

Margo strolls toward it casually.

We see Eve seated, looking up fascinated at Bill as he talks -

out of the laughter...

Eve sees Margo approach. She gets up. Bill turns.

INT. MARGO'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

As Margo strolls up, very off-hand.

She leaves. A short lull. Margo looks into cigarette boxes.

Bill eyes her curiosity, crosses to the fire.

Bill catches the drift. Incredulously.

Bill and Margo look off. Eve is in the room. They have no way

of knowing how long she's been there.

Eve, involuntarily, looks to Margo.

Eve smiles, turns to Bill.

Bill smiles back and starts across the landing toward the

pantry. As he crosses the stairs, Karen, Lloyd and Max come

up from the street level below. General greetings. Bill

continues up to pantry. Eve and then Margo come up to add

their welcome...

Karen yields with a "thank you, Eve-." Eve goes up with the

coat. Lloyd looks after her approvingly.

They start for the living room.

They've come to a halt near the fireplace.

Bill brings two Martinis. He hands one to Margo.

He hands Eve's drink to Karen. Max has wandered off. Other

guests are arriving. Margo gulps her drink, hands Bill the

empty glass. He puts it on a passing tray. Margo takes a

fresh one at the same time.

Margo surveys them all.

She downs the drink, hands the empty glass to Bill, and

leaves them. She passes two women, gabbing by the piano. As

they see her:

She arrives at the landing just as Addison comes up with Miss

Caswell. Margo takes a drink from a passing tray.

Miss Caswell drapes her coat over the rail, heads for Max.

Addison puts Eve's arm in his.

Eve smiles uncertainly at Margo as he leads her away. Margo

looks after them. She downs her drink...

INT. MARGO'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

It's many Martinis later. Most of the guests have gone. The

party has reached that static state - everyone's assumed more

or less permanent places.

Birdie passes, carrying a cup of coffee. CAMERA FOLLOWS her

to the piano where Margo sits on the bench beside the

pianist. He is just finishing "Liebestraum" and she stares

moodily into a Martini. Birdie halts beside her with the

coffee. Margo looks up. Birdie holds out the coffee. Margo

takes the onion out of the Martini, drops it into the coffee

and waves Birdie away. Birdie goes. "Liebestraum" comes to an

end. The pianist tries to ease into a more sophisticated

rhythm. Margo stops him.

Unhappily, he plays "Liebestraum." Margo sips her Martini,

stares down into it again. Bill tiptoes up.

Bill is about to get mad - when Max bustles up.

She takes off. Max waits to set Bill straight.

He starts off after Margo. As the CAMERA PANS with Bill we

see Margo going into the pantry with Max following her. Bill

joins Addison and Miss Caswell on the stairs.

INT. PANTRY - NIGHT

It's a good sized one. In the b.g., the caterers are packing

dishes, glassware, etc. Margo crosses to a cupboard. She

finds the bicarb.

He adds water to the bicarb.

Max burps.

Lloyd enters, looking for her.

He goes out. A pause.

Another pause.

Another pause.

A pause. Margo closes the box of bicarb.

They exit into the dining room. As they open the swinging

door, the CAMERA REMAINS in the doorway. Margo and Lloyd walk

toward the stairs. In the b.g., Eve is talking to the group.

How much she says is dependent on how long it takes Margo and

Lloyd to reach her.

Just as before, she becomes aware of Margo's approach with

Lloyd. She scrambles to her feet...

And as Margo speaks - or before - we

FADE OUT.

FADE IN:

EXT. N.Y. THEATER STREET - DAY

Margo gets out of a cab in front of the theater and goes in.

It's Friday afternoon - no performance.

INT. LOBBY AND FOYER - CURRAN THEATER - DAY

Margo comes from the street through the lobby ( a few people

buying tickets) and into the deserted foyer. She spots

Addison sprawled on one of the sofas.

She heads for the auditorium.

A moment of silence.

As Addison speaks, he rises with excitement.

Addison, of course, knows exactly what she's doing. He senses

the approaching typhoon, he whips it up...

Miss Caswell appears, uncertain, in the b.g.

Margo, abruptly, starts for the auditorium. Addison smiles.

He takes Miss Caswell's arm.

He takes her toward the street.

INT. THEATER - CURRAN THEATER - DAY

The curtain is up; the set, covered, is a bedroom in a

deteriorating Southern mansion.

There is no one in the theater but Max, seated on the aisle

about two-thirds down, and Eve with Lloyd and Bill on the

stage. She is seated; they stand between her and auditorium.

There is some ad lib talk among the three which we cannot

make out. Margo marches down the aisle with a steady pace.

She passes Max smiles a sickly, hopeful smile. She ignores

him as if he were a used paper cup. She disappears through

the door which leads backstage.

Max whistles. Lloyd turns. Max indicated the door and puts

his hands to his head in despair.

Margo walks out of the wings on stage. Bill and Lloyd turn to

her. Eve rises.

Max slumps in his seat. By the time Margo turns back to them,

the others have exchanged swift looks.

Max submerges further in his seat.

Max has edged his way to the stage.

He stalks into the wings. Bill's reaction to the fight is

typical. He lights a cigarette, stretches out on the covered

bed. Eve stands frozen with fear. Margo yells after Lloyd

into the wings.

Lloyd comes out of the door leading to the auditorium. The

battle goes on without a pause. As he yells back, he crosses

to Max at row A, center.

He starts up the aisle with Max.

Now it's Max who stops and shouts back at her.

Max has already walked out unhappily. Lloyd now slams out.

Margo glares after him, then turns to Bill who smokes his

cigarette peacefully on the bed.

She turns away. Bill grabs her, pulls her down on the bed. He

holds her down.

Margo seems quiet. He gets up. She sits up.

No word from her. He starts away.

He goes out. Margo, alone, sit for a moment sadly. Then she

begins to cry...

INT. RICHARDS' STUDIO APARTMENT - DAY

One large room, a small foyer with a door to the corridor. A

stair up one wall to a narrow balcony from which a couple of

bedroom open.

Karen is painting. Earnestly but badly. A still life of an

orange, an avocado, an eggplant and three bananas.

Lloyd slams the door, flings his hat away, strides in,

peeling off muffler and overcoat.

He starts up the stairs to the bedroom.

As he goes into one of the bedrooms, Karen sits thoughtfully

on a couch. She muses...

She lies down, folds her hands behind her head.

She sits up. She smiles. The smile fades...

She shakes her head, crosses to her easel, resumes work on

the bananas. She slows down, then stops.

She puts the brush away and crosses to the phone which is by

Lloyd's work chair. As she crosses:

She looks in a leather phone book, pick up the phone and

dials.

There's an answer at the other end.

And as she waits we...

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

Open country. Preferably no houses in sight. Plenty of snow.

Lloyd's car drives along.

INT. COUPE - NIGHT

Lloyd driving. All three in the front seat.

The car swerves - suddenly and slightly.

They all laugh. Suddenly the car slows and stops - with that

hissing sound that can mean only one thing - no gas.

He tries to start it again. No luck. He turns on the

dashboard lights. The gas gauge reads empty.

Futilely, he runs the started again.

A moment of silence.

He starts out of the car. The cold comes in like a knife, the

women react.

Lloyd starts down the road. He slips once, recovers, waves

and keeps going.

They tuck the fur car robe around them. A pause. Margo turns

on the radio... it's "Liebestraum."

She turns it off. Another pause.

There's a pause.

She turns the radio on again. A piano nocturne...

Margo nods, get some cigarettes out of her bag. She offers

one to Karen. They light up.

A pause. There are tears in Karen's eyes.

She snuggles down into her furs. Karen flashes an unhappy

look at her. She, too, snuggles down...

EXT. THEATER ALLEY - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT

The snow has been shoveled to either side of the alley,

making a lane. The performance is just over.

Addison, his back to us, stands looking toward the stage

door. A few actors, on their way out.

He starts to walk toward the stage door.

He goes in the stage door.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CURRAN THEATER - NIGHT

More activity than last time, the performance being just

over. Addison comes through the door, picks his way toward

Margo's dressing room.

The door tot he dressing room is open just a bit. Addison

pauses beside the door to listen.

Addison uses his cane to swing the door open farther, so that

both he and WE can see as well as hear.

INT. MARGO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Bill faces Eve, who wears Margo's costume. She is a ravishing

sight. Her eyes shine up to his radiantly:

He starts out. Addison ducks.

Tears come to Eve's eyes. She turns away slowly.

He walks out. Addison ducks to avoid being seen. Eve glares

after Bill, tears the wig from her head, throws it on the

dressing table. Her glance is caught by a pair of scissors.

Swiftly, she snatches them up and in a sharp, vicious gesture

she slashes the wig. Addison knocks politely at the door. Eve

turns.

She starts creaming her face, removing make-up.

Eve rises. She eyes him steadily.

She goes into the bathroom.

Eve does so.

Eve sticks her head and naked shoulder around the door.

She closes the door. He leans back, lights a cigarette.

EXT. 52ND STREET - NEW YORK - NIGHT

A cab drives up to "21."

Karen gets out of the cab, pays and goes in.

INT. LOBBY - "21" - DAY

Karen consults her watch and the doorman as she enters.

Karen sees Eve who waits as Addison hands his hat, coat, and

cane to an attendant. She smiles, crosses to her.

He turns to Karen, changing the subject.

As he speaks, he crosses to pick up an evening paper, opens

it as he comes back.

He goes up the stairs with Eve. Karen glances after them

curiously, then at the column.

It is headed: "Things I Promised Not To Tell" by Addison

deWitt. He expression becomes increasingly horrified. She

drops the paper and rushes out...

INT. MARGO'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Addison's column quivers in Margo's hand as she strides about

reading it. Karen sits miserably.

Margo crumples the paper as if it were Eve's neck.

She pauses in midair to look at... Bill. He has come up the

stairs tow at a time, stands at the landing.

Margo suddenly starts to cry. She turns from him. Bill takes

her in his arms. He holds her...

Margo says nothing, just hides in his embrace. He soothes

her, pets her... he looks over at Karen.

Karen smiles back, waves, and goes out.

INT. RICHARDS' APARTMENT - DAY

Karen's having some lunch. Lloyd, still in his robe, sits

opposite her having some coffee and a cigarette. A copy of

the interview before him.

Lloyd wanders about - he seems to be searching for words, for

a position to maintain...

He's over by a window, his back to her. Karen eyes him

curiously, waiting for the payoff...

A pause.

Now Karen explodes. She rises.

Lloyd's full of anger and guilt. He snaps back.

The phone has been ringing. Lloyd snarls into it.

He hangs up. He smiles - suddenly, there's peace.

A pause.

Karen smiles happily.

INT. CUB ROOM - STORK CLUB - NIGHT

Margo, Karen, Bill and Lloyd are ensconced happily at a table

in the rear of the room. A bottle of fine wine is being

poured. Their mood is equally bubbly.

As they look at each other, they reflect the understanding

that has hit them both at last.

The wine has been poured by now.

Lloyd lowers his glass. There's a little pause.

They drink, then burst into a flurry of questions.

Lloyd fills all the glasses.

They drink. A waiter approaches with a note.

Karen stares at it curiously, then opens it.

She whips the note to Margo, who reads it aloud.

Addison sits near the entrance, at a banquette table for two.

A crumpled napkin and a wine glass indicate Eve's place. He

nibbles daintily at some blini.

Margo hails a passing captain.

She gets up and goes. The CAMERA takes her past Addison's

table. He rises in polite surprise.

She walks past him without a word. He smiles, looks toward

the group. He raises his glass in a toast.

Margo responds to the toast by waving an onion with a grand

flourish, then eating it.

He eats one in self-defense.

INT. LADIES' ROOM - STORK CLUB - NIGHT

Never having been, I can't say what it looks like. It is to

be hoped that there is an outer and inner room. We are

concerned with the outer.

There is an attendant in charge, and a constantly changing

flow of ladies who pause to make various repairs. All cafe

society - including one young drunk stretched out under a

mink coat and a wet towel.

There are two chairs - or a banquette - in a corner. Eve

waits there. She rises as Karen approaches.

She sits down. Karen remains standing.

Karen sits, reluctantly and rigidly.

She turns away from Karen. Karen's embarrassed.

This time she does cry. Softly, miserably. Karen looks about.

A pause. She puts an arm around Eve.

Eve has reached up to take Karen's hand. She holds it now, as

she turns slowly to face her.

Karen stares down at her. Eve's eyes burn into tears. Karen

is caught, fascinated by them.

She turns away again, but Eve's grip is like a vise.

Karen looks up slowly.

She leaves. Karen is alone.

INT. CUB ROOM - NIGHT

Eve enters and slides in beside Addison.

Addison puffs at his cigarette, bemused.

Eve's feelings are hurt.

Their eyes meet.

They both look as Karen passes them on her way back to her

table.

GROUP, as Karen joins them. Another bottle of champagne has

come and almost gone - there's a fine, cheery feeling among

them. Margo, in particular, is cheery. A pause. Karen downs a

glass of champagne.

They all look.

ADDISON AND EVE, they get up and go without looking back.

GROUP, they watch for an instant.

Karen's reactions are, of course, most important. Knowing

what she's done to Margo - wondering how to do what she must.

Margo misinterprets her vehemence.

Lloyd never gets to answer. Because Karen, before anyone can

stop her, bursts into hysterical laughter...

Margo removes the champagne glass from in front of Karen...

FADE OUT.

FADE IN:

INT. THEATER - CURRAN THEATER - DAY

Karen is seated unobtrusively in a rear lower box. Lloyd sits

beside Max up front.

On stage, the play is "on its feet." Eve plays a dramatic

scene with a young man. They carry "sides" but do not consult

them.

As she speaks, Eve moves upstage, turns to face the young man

who is forced to turn his back to the auditorium.

Bill calls a halt. He indicates to Eve that she was to have

remained downstage.

Eve seems to be at a loss. She looks at Lloyd.

Lloyd rises, says that he told her to make the change.

Bill comes down to the footlights to tell him to stick to

writing, he'll do the directing. It mounts swiftly to a

screaming fight. Bill throws the script out into the

auditorium, takes his coat and stalks off.

Eve runs after him. Max retrieves the script. Lloyd remains

adamant. Karen has risen in dismay.

Eve drags Bill back. Without looking at Lloyd, he takes the

script from Max, tells the actors to pick up where they left

off.

Eve whispers to Lloyd from the stage. Lloyd smiles,

mollified, sits down again with Max.

Karen walks up the side aisle, out of the theater...

INT. RICHARDS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

It is a lovely, large room. Two double beds, not alongside

each other and each with an extension phone beside it. In

addition to the door to the living room, there are two more -

to separate dressing rooms and baths. Lloyd is asleep. But

not Karen. She turns restlessly, finally sits up, lights a

cigarette.

The phone jangles suddenly, startling her. It wakes Lloyd up.

Karen answers.

INT. ROOMING HOUSE - NIGHT

A girl, in a wrapper, at a wall phone. Her hair's in curlers.

She's frightened.

RICHARDS' BEDROOM, Lloyd is sitting on the edge of the bed,

looking over...

Lloyd picks up his phone.

ROOMING HOUSE

RICHARDS' BEDROOM

ROOMING HOUSE

RICHARDS' BEDROOM

ROOMING HOUSE

She hangs up. As she moves from the phone, the ANGLE WIDENS

to disclose Eve at the foot of the stairs. The girls smile at

each other. They go upstairs, arm in arm.

RICHARDS' BEDROOM, Karen is still in bed, phone still in her

hand. She hangs up, swings her legs out, puts out her

cigarette, gets into a robe. The open door and light of the

dressing room tell us where Lloyd is.

Karen walks to the door, starts to say something, changes her

mind. She crosses to a table, lights a fresh cigarette, comes

back to the door.

No answer except the opening and closing of drawers.

Still no answer. Her tension increasing, Karen goes back to

the table, snubs out the fresh cigarette, then strides

swiftly back to the open door.

Now Lloyd appears. He's in flannels, and a sport shirt with

no tie. He's confused and guilty and tortured.

He goes back into his room.

Lloyd comes out wearing a jacket. He crosses to the door,

Karen after him.

Lloyd goes out. Karen looks after him, despairing.

EXT. SHUBERT THEATER - NEW HAVEN - DAY

The theater is but a few doors from the TAFT HOTEL. The

marquee announces a new play by Lloyd Richards, presented by

Max Fabian, opening tonight.

Addison and Eve stand before the theater admiring her photo

on a lobby display. None of the actors are starred.

They start for the hotel - Eve's arm through Addison's.

They've arrived in front of the hotel.

She goes in. Addison follows her.

INT. CORRIDOR - TAFT HOTEL - DAY

Addison accompanies Eve along the corridor to her door.

They've arrived at her door. She opens it.

He turns to go. After a few steps-

Addison turns curiously, and enters behind her.

INT. EVE'S SUITE - TAFT HOTEL - DAY

Old-fashioned, dreary and small. The action starts in the

living room and continues to the bedroom.

Addison closes the door, crosses to a comfortable chair.

She indicates a table elaborately stocked with liquor,

glasses, etc. Addison's eyebrows lift.

She carries the soda to him, sits on an ottoman at his feet.

He sips his soda and puts away, carefully avoiding a look at

Eve. As he looks back-

Eve gets up, crosses to look out over the Common.

For just a flash, Addison's eyes narrow coldly, viciously.

Then they crinkle into a bland smile.

Eve drops her shocked manner like a cape. Her face lights up -

she crosses back to the ottoman.

Addison rises slowly, to his full height. As Eve watches him,

as her eyes go up to his, her smile fades-

Eve gets up, now.

She smiles. Then she chuckles, then laughs. A mistake.

Addison slaps her sharply across the face.

Eve eyes him coldly, goes to the door, throws it open.

Addison walks to the door, closes it.

She goes to the phone.

She doesn't. Her back is to him. Addison smiles.

He comes up behind her. Eve is tense and wary.

She walks away. Addison eyes her keenly.

Eve turns and runs into the bedroom, slamming the door.

Addison opens it, follows close after her... he can be seen

in the bedroom, shouting at Eve who is offscene.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Eve, trapped, in a corner of the room.

Eve throws herself on the bed, face down, bursts in tears.

Addison, merciless, moves closer.

Eve twists to look up at him, her eyes streaming.

Eve turns face down again, sobbing miserably.

Eve covers her face with her hands.

Addison get off the bed, looks down at her.

Eve lies listlessly now, her tear-stained cheek against the

coverlet. She nods.

He starts out.

He goes out. The CAMERA REMAINS on Eve's forlorn, tear

stained face. Her eyes close... she goes to sleep.

INT. DINING HALL - SARAH SIDDONS SOCIETY - NIGHT

THE STOPPED ACTION of Eve reaching out for the award. The

applause and bulb-popping still going on.

THE ACTION picks up where it left off. Eve accepts the award

from the Aged Actor, kisses him tenderly, folds the award to

her bosom and waits for quiet.

She speaks with assurance, yet modestly and humbly.

MAX sits erect, beaming proudly.

EVE, after applause greets Max.

KAREN resumes her doodling as applause breaks out for her...

MARGO, part of Eve's tribute has been over her CLOSE-UP. She

smiles grimly in reaction to the applause.

EVE looks to her right, waits for the applause to die.

BILL, seated at the speakers' table. He has his award before

him - a smaller one. He puts out a cigarette expressionlessly

as the applause breaks out.

LLOYD sits beside Bill. He, too, has a smaller award. As Eve

speaks, he throws her a brief glance.

EVE waits for the applause to die.

ADDISON smiles approvingly.

EVE stares at the award for an instant, as if fighting for

self-control.

Another storm of applause. Much ad lib shouting as Bill and

Lloyd are summoned to pose beside her for more pictures.

People are thronging out. The Aged Actor shouts above the

hubbub...

Eve disengages herself from the photographers, makes her way

toward Addison's table... Bill and Lloyd follow. CAMERA

FOLLOWS Lloyd to Karen. They kiss. He gives her the award.

Max bustles into the SHOT.

She and Lloyd follow Max. Addison and Eve are on their way.

Lloyd goes right by. Karen pauses at Eve.

Karen goes. Eve is being constantly congratulated. Some ad

lib about seeing her at Max's party...

Max hurries out. Margo and Bill step into the SHOT. Eve turns

from a well-wisher to face her.

Eve looks at her wordlessly. Margo and Bill leave. Addison

and Eve are alone. The tables about them are empty. Suddenly,

her face becomes expressionless, her eyes dull... she glances

at the table.

A well-wisher rushes up to Eve with an "Eve, darling, I'm so

happy!" Eve rises, thanks her graciously. Then she pulls her

wrap over her shoulder.

They exit from the room, now empty of everything but tables,

waiters, and the usual banquet debris.

EXT. PARK AVENUE - NIGHT

Eve gets out of taxi in front of a fashionable apartment

hotel. She doesn't say good night to Addison, she enters the

hotel as the cab drives off. She hasn't the award with her.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE EVE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Smart, but not gaudy. Eve crosses from the elevator to her

apartment. She lets herself in.

INT. EVE'S HOTEL APARTMENT - NIGHT

A small foyer, from which one door leads to the leaving room,

another to the bedroom. The bedroom and living room do not

connect except through the foyer.

All the lights are out. Eve turns them on in the foyer, the

same as she enters the bedroom. There are some new trunks, in

various stages of being packed. Eve tosses her wrap on the

bed, goes through the foyer to the living room.

She turns on the light in the living room. CAMERA FOLLOWS her

to a smart small bar where she fixes a stiff drink. As she

turns from the bar, she stares - starts in fright - and drops

the drink.

A young girl, asleep in a chair, wakes with a jump. She

stares at Eve, horror-stricken.

Eve starts for the phone. The girl rises in panic.

Eve makes no comment. She lies wearily on the couch.

She crosses to it.

The girl puts the broken glass on the bar. She starts to mix

Eve a fresh drink.

She carries the drink over to Eve.

The door buzzer sounds.

She goes to the door, opens it. Addison stands there, the

Sarah Siddons Award in his hands.

She holds it as if it were the Promised Land. Addison smiles

faintly. He knows the look.

Phoebe lifts her eyes to him.

Addison pats her shoulder lightly.

Phoebe smiles shyly. Addison closes the door. Phoebe stares

down at the award for an instant.

She takes the award into the bedroom, sets it on a trunk. As

she starts out, she sees Eve's fabulous wrap on the bed. She

listens. Then, quietly, she puts on the wrap and picks up the

award.

Slowly, she walks to a large three-mirrored cheval. With

grace and infinite dignity she holds the award to her, and

bows again and again... as if to the applause of a multitude.

