Interior: Jack Burden's Desk, The Chronicle, Day

Jack Burden is looking over the morning edition of "The

Chronicle." He reads the society page. A man enters and leans

across his desk.

He folds his paper, rises, and walks by the presses into

Madison's office.

Interior: Madison's Office, Day

Madison, the city editor, is correcting copy at his desk.

He opens his newspaper to the society page and shows Madison

a photograph of Anne Stanton.

Jack takes the paper back and looks at it.

Madison goes on with his work.

Exterior: Kanoma City, Day

As Jack Burden's jalopy pulls up before the Kanoma County

Courthouse of this back-country, one-street small town.

He gets out of the car, and notices a crowd of people gathered

around a platform in the town square. As he walks over the

begins to hear the words that Willie Stark is speaking.

A man in shirt sleeves and suspenders, Tiny Duffy, comes out

of the local poolroom, listens for a moment to Willie's

speech, and signals to two uniformed men to go over and break

up the gathering.

Jack Burden stands close to the platform, next to Willie's

son, Tom, who waits patiently to distribute handbills.

The sheriff and his deputy push through the crowd.

The sheriff pushes Tom back, grabbing the handbills out of

his hand. Willie jumps down off the platform.

The sheriff collars Willie, then notices Jack on the platform

snapping a picture.

He takes Willie by the arm and leads him away. The crowd

follows them to the courthouse. Tiny Duffy wipes the sweat

off his neck and goes back into the poolroom.

Interior: Kanoma City Poolroom, Day

Two of Duffy's men, Pillsbury and a local commissioner, are

playing pool as Jack enters.

He walks over to Duffy. Some townspeople, who followed him

there, gather around him to listen.

Willie enters, accompanied by the sheriff and his deputy.

The others in the room, including Sugar Boy in his bartender's

apron, step aside to let him pass through.

Jack examines the camera that has just been returned to him.

Duffy roars with laughter.

They all laugh.

They turn and go out.

Exterior: Dirt Road, Day

Jack is driving Willie home to his farmhouse. They pass a

farmer and his family walking by the side of the road. Willie

smiles and waves to them.

Exterior: Stark Farmhouse, Day

As the car pulls into the drive we see Pa Stark in his rocking

chair on the porch, and Lucy, who stands at the top of the

steps, waiting to welcome Willie.

Jack reaches out to shake his hand.

Interior: Stark Farmhouse, Night

Willie finishes chewing his food, pats his mouth with a

napkin, and pushes his plate back.

Camera pulls back to include Jack, Lucy, and Pa, all seated

around the dinner table.

Lucy gets up and turns on a light in the kitchen.

Willie grins at Jack's look of surprise. Lucy comes back

into the room.

She goes back into the kitchen.

Willie is silent. Jack looks at him.

The door opens slowly and Tom comes in from the porch. His

clothes are torn and his face is dirty and bloody. He still

carries some of the handbills. They rise to their feet and

cluster around him.

As Tom and Pappy go into the other room, a rock comes crashing

through the front window, shattering the glass. Willie, his

face filled with anger, throws open the door and stalks out

onto the porch. Jack stands at the door, watching Willie

shout into the darkness around him.

FADE IN:

Interior: Jack Burden's Desk, Day

Jack's fingers type out a story, the last line of which reads

"an honest man with courage." He pulls the sheet out and

hands it to Madison.

Jack rises and walks toward the door.

Exterior: Ferry To Burden's Landing, Day

Jack's car is ferried across the bay to the slip of Burden's

Landing.

Exterior: Mrs. Burden's Home, Day

As Jack arrives, Mrs. Burden and her husband, McEvoy, are

seated at a lawn table near the boat landing.

She runs forward to meet him.

She goes ahead and pours the drinks.

They drink. Mrs. Burden gulps hers down avidly. Jack looks

at her and then at McEvoy.

He turns and walks back toward the shore. He boards a small

motorboat and heads toward a house that can be seen across

the water.

Exterior: Stanton Home (Burden's Landing), Day

As the boat approaches the shore. Adam Stanton reaches down

and pulls the boat up on land. He throws his arm around Jack,

and the two climb the hill toward Judge Stanton, who stands

waiting to greet him.

They walk back together to the patio tables.

Jack catches sight of Anne Stanton walking down the path. He

runs to meet her. As they embrace, he looks back at the Judge.

He kisses her, and they turn and walk away.

Exterior: Tennis Court (Burden's Landing), Day

Anne gracefully returns a ball to Jack, then runs to embrace

him at the net. Adam, seated near the court, smiles

approvingly.

Exterior: Gulf (Burden's Landing), Morning

Jack and Judge Stanton in a rowboat, on their way to do some

duck hunting.

Exterior: Gulf (Burden's Landing), Day

Adam is at the wheel of his sailboat, with Jack and Anne

behind him.

Interior: Stanton Living Room (Burden's Landing), Night

A party in the Stanton living room. Adam plays the piano. He

plays a waltz. Jack and Anne hold each other tightly as they

move among the other couples.

Interior: Burden Dining Room, Night

A formal dinner, attended by Jack and Anne, Mrs. Burden and

McEvoy, Judge Stanton and Adam. Mrs. Burden is proposing a

toast.

Jack looks at Anne.

There is a silence. Then McEvoy turns to the Judge.

The Judge picks up his glass and stands up.

Jack's answer is to throw his liquor in his stepfather's

face. There is a pause. McEvoy wipes the liquor off with his

handkerchief.

Jack turns and leaves the room.

She hurries after him.

Exterior: Veranda, Night

As Mrs. Burden comes out after Jack. Anne stands in the

doorway.

Mrs. Burden appeals to Anne.

Anne says nothing. Mrs. Burden goes back into the house.

Interior: Stanton Living Room, Night

Anne and Jack sit alone in the room, beneath the portrait of

the old Governor Stanton.

Jack looks up at the portrait of Governor Stanton.

They kiss.

Interior: Madison's Office, Day

Madison is at his desk as Jack enters.

He turns around and walks off toward his desk.

FADE IN:

Interior: Stark Farmhouse, Night

Lucy and Willie are seated together at the table. Willie has

his law books open before him.

He opens the book again.

Interior: Willie's Law Office (Kanoma City), Day

Willie positions the framed diploma on the wall. The camera

pulls back to show Tom and Lucy, looking on.

Exterior: Kanoma City Farm, Day

Close shot of Willie, talking to a farmer.

Exterior: Farm, Day

Willie walks beside a farmer who is plowing his field.

Interior: Willie's Law Office, Night

Through the window, on which is printed "Willie Stark:

Attorney at Law," we see Willie, alone, pacing back and forth

in his office.

Willie crumples a piece of paper in his hand and tosses it

against the window.

Exterior: Schoolhouse (Kanoma City), Day

A plaque on the school wall reads KANOMA CITY GRAMMAR SCHOOL

Interior: Schoolroom, Day

Teacher faces her class. The clanging of a fire bell is heard.

The children rise and start to march out of the room in double

file.

Exterior: Schoolhouse, Day

The children's feet, as they climb down the fire escape.

Camera pans past children to an iron rod supporting the fire

escape. The brick around the rod starts to crumble and it

rips loose. The children scream out in fear and agony.

Exterior: Cemetery, Day

The whole town is there. Willie Stark, Lucy, Tom stand

modestly in the background. Quiet sobbing is heard as the

minister reads from the Bible. When he finishes the prayer,

he walks past the line of mourners, shaking their hands. The

ceremony is over. As they start to go, a man spots Willie,

goes over to him, and lifts Willie's arm in the air.

This sudden action brings response; women begin to cry and

people push their way forward to grab Willie by the hand.

On Willie's face is the realization that something important

has happened to him.

Interior: Stark Farmhouse, Night

An article is pasted in a scrapbook. It reads: "VOICE IN THE

WILDERNESS. Recent school tragedy is a potent reminder that

a man named Willie Stark..." A hand draws a pencil underneath

the name.

Camera pulls back to show Willie at the table busy with his

scrapbook. He looks up at Lucy.

She looks at him, unsmiling, and sits down to help him clip

various articles from other papers.

Interior: Stark Farmhouse, Night

A series of clippings are being pasted in the scrapbook.

They read:

A. SCHOOL VICTIMS SUE COUNTY: STARK FILES DAMAGE SUIT

"Will prove graft cause of tragedy," says Attorney Stark.

B. CITIZENS COMMITTEE FORMED

Draft Stark to lead fight to rid state of graft.

C. CITIZENS COMMITTEE DEMANDS STATE-WIDE INVESTIGATION

D. Large photograph of Willie. Under it, the caption: RURAL

AREAS IN REVOLT

Interior: Madison's Office, The Chronicle, Day

The clippings are spread out on Madison's desk. He looks up

at Jack.

Jack starts toward the door.

Interior: Harrison's Political Headquarters (State Capital),

Day

A politician points to a map on the wall.

Camera pulls back, revealing the candidate, Harrison, Tiny

Duffy, and a woman, Sadie Burke.

They crowd around to listen.

Interior: Stark Farmhouse, Day

Jack sits at the dinner table, with Willie and Lucy. Tom

stands next to Willie. Pappy dozes in his chair.

Willie is about to answer when he hears the sound of

approaching cars.

He goes to the window, and we see a big black limousine

turning into his drive. He opens the door and waits as Sadie,

Duffy, Dolph Pillsbury, and other politicians climb the steps

to meet him.

Willie, Lucy, and Tom beam happily. Jack looks skeptically

at Sadie, whose only reaction is to smile, politely.

Exterior: Country Road, Day

Close shot of three posters on a billboard. They read ELECT

JOE HARRISON (HAPPY JOE) GOVERNOR FOR GOVERNOR ELECT McMURPHY

WILLIE STARK FOR GOVERNOR.

The camera pans to the road, where an old Model T comes

bouncing along. As it passes we see a poster stuck on its

back: WILLIE STARK -- GOVERNOR.

Exterior: Railroad Station, Day

Willie Stark walks out on the platform at the rear of the

train and talks to some of the townspeople who have gathered

at the station.

Some of the townspeople start to move away.

Interior: Train, Day

As the train pulls away from the station, Willie turns around

to Jack.

Jack and Sadie exchange looks.

Interior: Train Club Car, Day

Willie, jacket off, works over a speech with Duffy as

Pillsbury and Sadie look on.

Sadie sips her drink.

Exterior: Street Corner (Upton), Day

Willie stands on a platform, next to an American flag, reading

from his prepared speech.

Sadie turns and walks away, no longer able to listen. Jack

follows her toward the hotel.

Interior: Hotel Lobby (Upton), Day

As Jack and Sadie cross the street, enter the lobby, and sit

down next to the front window. We can still see Willie and

his small street-corner audience in the background.

Willie has just finished his speech and is on his way over

to the hotel.

He and Jack go upstairs together. Sadie watches them.

Interior: Sadie's Hotel Room (Upton), Night

Sadie lies on her bed, listening to Willie in the next room,

rehearsing one of his speeches.

Sadie pulls off a shoe and hurls it at the wall.

Interior: Jack's Hotel Room (Upton), Same Time

Willie lies on his bed. Jack finishes shaving in the bathroom

as he continues to rehearse him.

Pause.

There is a knock on the door.

Sadie enters. She immediately spots the liquor, and pours

herself a drink.

Jack says nothing. Sadie gulps down her drink, bangs the

empty glass on the bureau top, and turns to face Willie.

Willie looks at her steadily for a moment.

There is a long pause. Willie looks almost as if he is going

to cry. Sadie pours out another drink, a stiff one.

Willie drinks it all.

She shoves the bottle at him. He takes it and pours himself

a drink.

Interior: Sadie's Hotel Room (Upton), Morning

Willie is snoring on the bed. Sadie's coat is thrown over

him. She is in the bathroom, applying lipstick. Jack enters.

Jack sits on the bed next to Willie.

Sadie pulls her coat off Willie and goes to the door.

She leaves. Jack bends over Willie, who continues to snore.

Exterior: Fairgrounds (Upton), Day

A crowd mills about underneath a banner that reads HEAR WILLIE

STARK MAMMOTH BARBECUE -- UPTON FAIRGROUNDS

Exterior: Fairgrounds, Day

Willie, staggering a bit, hung over, reacts painfully to the

staggering height of the Ferris wheel. He leans on Jack for

support, and they walk on.

Exterior: Fairgrounds, Day

Willie takes a seat on the children's swing as Jack goes off

to get some coffee. Two little girls stare curiously at him.

Willie waves them off. Jack returns with the coffee and pours

some whisky in it. Willie tips his hand, forcing him to pour

more, then gulps his drink down.

Exterior: Bandstand (Upton), Day

Duffy, Pillsbury, and the other politicians stand on the

platform, waiting for Willie. A band plays march music. Duffy

goes over to Sadie, who is standing on the steps of the

platform.

Escorted by Jack, Willie approaches the platform and stumbles

up the steps past Sadie.

Duffy follows Willie up on the platform.

On the platform, Duffy looks uneasily at the bleary-eyed

Willie. The band suddenly plays a fanfare, and the chairman

steps up to the microphone.

There is scattered applause as Willie steps forward to speak.

He turns his face from side to side, and fumbles in the right

side of his coat pocket to fish out his speech.

He tries to focus on the speech, which he clutches before

his eyes with both hands. Then he lifts his head, and looks

directly at the people who have come to hear him. As he

speaks, the camera focuses on the faces of these people: the

farmers, workers, hicks, red-necks who are Willie's audience,

Willie's people.

He throws his speech away. Duffy looks alarmed.

Sugar Boy listens intently, sharing in the anger in Willie's

speech.

Jack, electrified, grips Sadie's arm.

Duffy fidgets as Willie continues to pace and speak, his

face filled with conviction, and with fury.

He points his finger at Duffy, who is coming over to speak

to him.

Willie turns on him, roaring.

Duffy gestures frantically to the band.

The band starts to play, adding to the pandemonium. Willie

shouts above it.

Duffy signals to some of his goons standing near the platform.

Sugar Boy leaps up on the platform, his pistol drawn and

pointed at Duffy's men. Willie throws up his arms to silence

the crowd.

The camera moves in close on Willie's face.

Exterior: Willie's Speeches, Day and Night

A series of close-ups of Willie's face as he shouts and jeers

his message, always accompanied by the loud and frenzied

cheers of the crowd. Superimposed over his face is the figure

of Jack Burden, at his desk, typing out his stories.

Loud cheers and yells.

NEWSPAPER HEADLINE

There is a photograph of Willie and a headline that reads

STARK CHANCES BOOMING

Superimposed over the newspaper is a shot of a crowd

applauding and yelling for Willie.

Interior: Joe Harrison's Campaign Headquarters, Night

Duffy, Pillsbury, and other aides stand looking at a poster

of Willie.

Exterior: Willie's Campaign Montage

Rock crashes through a window, knocking down a poster of

Willie.

Poster being torn off the side of a building.

A man is attacked as he tries to distribute leaflets.

Exterior: Jack Burden's Desk, The Chronicle, Night

Jack is working on a story when Madison comes to his desk.

Exterior: Street Outside State Capitol, Day

NEWSPAPER HEADLINE READS

HARRISON WINS CLOSE RACE

STARK SWEEPS RURAL AREAS

CITY VOTE DECIDES ELECTION

Superimposed over newspaper is a crowd cheering at Harrison's

victory parade. Willie, raincoat thrown over his shoulders,

looking grim, and Sadie and Sugar Boy are part of that crowd.

They turn away and walk toward a bar.

Interior: Bar, Day

Jack is already at the bar. Willie, Sadie, and Sugar Boy

join him there.

Willie and Sadie exchange looks.

Close shot of Willie.

FADE IN:

Exterior: Road, Day

Jack stands on the side of the road, thumbing a ride.

Interior: Office, Night

Jack turns in some copy to a man at a desk.

Exterior: Street, Day

Jack and others in front of an employment agency.

Interior: Bar, Night

Jack, at the bar, looking haggard and disheveled, picks up a

newspaper and turns to find a photograph of Anne. The caption

reads STANTONS ARRIVE HOME.

Exterior: Street, Day

Camera pans with Jack as he trudges along the street.

We see an insert of a newspaper. It has a caricature of

Willie, swinging a sledge hammer. The caption reads

STARK ATTACKS ADMINISTRATION

CHARGES OLD MACHINE STILL CORRUPT

MONTAGE: WILLIE'S LIFE

Writing on a fence: THE PEOPLE'S WILL SHOULD BE THE LAW OF

THE STATE... WILLIE STARK Painted on a rock: KNOWLEDGE BELONGS

TO THE PEOPLE... WILLIE STARK

Lettering on a barn: FREE MEDICINE FOR ALL PEOPLE -- NOT AS

A CHARITY BUT AS A RIGHT... WILLIE STARK

Poster on a building: MY STUDY IS THE HEART OF THE PEOPLE...

WILLIE STARK

Newspaper caricature: it shows Willie on a bandwagon headed

for the state capitol. Everyone is trying to climb aboard.

Caption is THEY'RE ALL FOR WILLIE NOW. Huge poster on the

side of a building: MY STUDY IS THE HEART OF THE PEOPLE.

Camera pans up to photograph of Willie on the poster.

Interior: Willie's Office, Day

Willie is being interviewed by a group of reporters. Sugar

Boy lounges nearby, leaning against the wall.

Exterior: Circus Grounds, Day

We see balloons with inscriptions reading "I'm for Willie,"

and a large banner stretching overhead, saying FREE CIRCUS

TODAY -- COMPLIMENTS OF WILLIE STARK. The crowd moves about,

gazing at the clowns, animals, the trapeze act.

Exterior: Park, Day

A truck loaded with beer kegs pulls into the park. On the

back of the truck is a sign: BIG STARK RALLY TODAY -- FREE

BEER -- FREE FOOD -- EVERYBODY INVITED. Superimposed over

this is the image of dollar bills floating through the air.

Montage: Willie's Second Campaign

Hand holding check made payable to Willie Stark Campaign

Fund... $7000. Willie's hand reaches out and takes it.

Hand holding check payable to cash for $5000. Superimposed

is Willie, looking on, and his hand endorsing the back of

the check.

Another check to the Stark Campaign Fund for $3500. Poster

of Willie is superimposed.

Crowd milling about circus grounds, with Willie's poster

superimposed.

Fireworks exploding. Crowd cheers.

Huge poster is affixed to the side of a building. It bears

Willie's face, and his slogans.

Exterior: Hotel (State Capital), Day

Crowd stands about as Willie and Jack make their way into

the hotel.

Interior: Hotel Lobby, Day

The lobby is packed as Willie, Jack, Sugar Boy, and Pillsbury

enter. Willie makes signals to Duffy to tag along with the

entourage. Willie leans over to speak to the room clerk.

The group starts up the stairs, past the officers who are

standing guard. Duffy stops to speak to one, pointing his

finger at some of his men standing below.

They start up the second flight of stairs.

Willie stops and looks around at Duffy's men hurrying up the

steps.

Duffy and his men turn and go downstairs.

Willie's expression changes. He starts up the stairs.

Interior: Willie's Campaign Office In Hotel, Day

The place is a beehive of activity, with typists and

messengers scurrying about, all supervised by Sadie.

The door opens and Willie, Jack, and Sugar Boy come in.

As Willie and Jack walk toward adjoining room, Sadie calls

out:

Interior: Bedroom Hotel Suite, Day

Willie and Jack enter from the office.

Sugar Boy appears in the doorway. Sadie slips by into the

room.

He walks over to Jack, who leans back on the bed.

Willie gets up and walks to the window.

Exterior: Burden's Landing, Day

Willie's car is on the ferry crossing the bay to Burden's

Landing. Sugar Boy drives the car off the ferry and up the

road toward the house.

Interior: Stanton Living Room (Burden's Landing), Night

Close shot of Willie standing in front of the fireplace,

beneath the portrait of Governor Stanton.

Camera pulls back. The room is crowded with people, all of

them friends of the Stantons. Anne, Adam, Judge Stanton,

Mrs. Burden, and McEvoy are part of the audience sitting

around the fireplace. Jack stands next to Willie.

The guests laugh good-naturedly.

More laughter. Willie smiles and goes on.

There is immediate applause. Anne is the first to rush over

and shake Willie's hand.

Exterior: Stanton Home, Night

The last of the guests are leaving. Jack and Willie remain

with the Judge, Anne, and Adam.

They laugh.

The Judge smiles, then puts out his hand.

They shake hands.

Jack kisses Anne on the cheek. Anne comes over and shakes

Willie's hand.

FADE IN:

Interior: Hotel Lobby (State Capital), Day

People stand before the election return board in the hotel

lobby. Camera pulls back, revealing a newspaper picture of

Willie, and the headline

STARK ELECTED GOVERNOR

WILLIE WINS

Exterior: Street Outside Willie's Hotel Balcony, Night

A crowd stands below Willie's hotel window, chanting together:

A high angle from the balcony shows Anne, Jack, and Adam in

the center of the excited crowd, looking expectantly upward.

Some of the people around them are carrying torches. Arc

lights play over the dome of the state capitol in the

background. In response to the chants, Willie appears on the

balcony. With him, standing on the balcony, are Tom and Lucy.

The crowd erupts into cheers as he steps outside.

Loud cheers. Adam watches Anne. She applauds. Willie looks

down at the crowd and continues his speech.

The crowd applauds, and Willie waves. We see Anne, face aglow,

turn to Jack.

Anne and Jack watch Adam as he leaves.

FADE IN:

Montage: Willie Becomes Governor

Willie, Sadie, and Jack leaving their old campaign

headquarters.

Willie, Sadie, Jack, and others going upstairs in the

governor's mansion. The ousted politicians are just packing

up and leaving.

Willie yelling at the legislators during a session.

Road excavation -- a bulldozer clears away dirt.

A huge crane maneuvers over a dam site. Men are seen working

on the girders of a large power plant.

Shots of uniformed policemen roughing up citizens. Willie

and Sugar Boy move in on a man being held by cops.

Willie looks on as Jack thumbs through his little black book.

Willie in a nightclub, surrounded by some show girls. A

photographer takes a picture of Willie with a girl balanced

on his knee.

Willie leads a marching band out onto a football field.

Shot of Tom in football uniform running across the field

with the ball. Willie, in the stands, hugs Lucy.

Willie makes an inspection of the police. He stops to adjust

an officer's tie.

Sign at building excavation reads HERE ON THIS SITE WILL BE

ERECTED THE GOVERNOR STARK HOSPITAL -- "TO HEAL SICKNESS. TO

EASE PAIN. FREE. NOT AS A CHARITY -- BUT AS A RIGHT"... WILLIE

STARK.

A square dance at the governor's mansion. Willie dances with

Anne.

FADE IN:

Interior: Executive Office Corridor, Day

Jack walks down the corridor on the way to Willie's offices.

Interior: Willie's Executive Offices, Day

As Jack enters from the corridor, Sadie is coming out of

Willie's private office.

She slams the door hard. We hear Willie laugh.

Jack grins, then walks into Sadie's office.

She goes to the door to yell to the secretary.

She slams the door again, and returns to her desk.

Jack shoves the paper at her. She ignores it.

She slaps his face.

The door to Willie's office bursts open and Willie dashes

out.

They go out through the reception room, pick up Sugar Boy,

and head down the corridor.

Some newsmen are waiting on the top landing.

Willie pushes by them.

They all hurry after Willie as he rushes down the stairs.

Interior: Lobby State Capitol, Day

Anne is about to go up the stairs when she meets Willie and

the others on the way down.

Anne watches as they cross the lobby and exit.

Interior: Stark's Hotel Suite, Night

Close shot of Willie, seated, with his feet propped up on a

table. Pillsbury stands before him. Jack, Sadie, Duffy, and

Sugar Boy are also in the room.

Pillsbury doesn't answer.

Sugar Boy laughs loudly. The phone rings and Sadie picks it

up.

Sugar Boy exists. Willie turns back to Pillsbury.

There is a knock on the door.

Judge Stanton enters.

Pillsbury signs the paper.

Pillsbury moves slowly, so Sadie yanks the paper out of his

hand and passes it to Willie.

Pillsbury slinks out of the room.

The phone rings.

Willie takes the phone, but puts his hand over the mouthpiece

so that he can speak to Jack.

He grins and hangs up the phone.

Duffy leaves.

The Judge nods.

He starts to leave.

Jack turns away.

He goes. Willie closes the door behind him.

Exterior: Willie's Hotel, Night

Willie's car draws up to the curb. Sugar Boy hops out to

open the door for Willie.

Sadie is watching him from a window upstairs in the hotel.

Anne is in the back seat; Willie leans down to talk to her.

She doesn't answer.

Sadie approaches.

FADE IN:

NEWSPAPER HEADLINE

ATTORNEY GENERAL RESIGNS:

STANTON ACCUSES STARK OF

QUASHING PILLSBURY GRAFT

Interior: State Legislature Assembly Room, Day

Duffy stands in the forground, looking in on the uproar and

confusion of the assembly.

As Duffy turns and walks away, other senators rise up in

their seats in protest.

MONTAGE: PILLSBURY SCANDAL

Sign on building reads: CITIZENS COMMITTEE MEETING, Subject:

PILLSBURY SCANDAL, 8 P.M. Tonight -- Town Hall.

A man pastes a strip across the sign: CANCELED.

A man is making a speech to a small group of people.

Thugs break up the meeting. The speaker is beaten up. Jack

Burden turns through the pages of the little black book.

Interior: Stark's Hotel Suite, Day

Willie is lying on the bed. Jack is seated. Sadie and Sugar

Boy stand nearby.

Jack stares at him.

Exterior: Burden's Landing Ferry, Night

Jack's car is seen coming across on the ferry.

Interior: Stanton Living Room, Night

Jack and Anne stand together in the living room.

She walks away from him. Adam enters, carrying bundles of

food and two wine bottles.

Anne takes the grocery bundles. Jack grabs the wine.

He joins Adam, who has opened the piano.

Anne returns with three glasses. Jack grabs her around the

waist and whirls her around.

Adam starts to pour the wine.

She throws down her glass and runs crying from the room.

Adam goes after her.

Interior: Stanton Hallway and Stairs, Night

Anne runs upstairs and Adam follows. The Judge comes out of

his room to see what has happened, sees Jack standing at the

foot of the stairs, hesitates a moment, and then goes back

to his room without speaking.

Interior: County Recorder Room, Day

Jack enters and speaks to a clerk, who then directs him to

one of the files. He starts to look through the files marked

MORTGAGES DEFAULTED.

He pulls out a file.

He takes the file back to the clerk.

Interior: Jack's Hotel Bedroom, Day

Jack is lying on his bed, looking over the documents that

relate to the Judge. He looks haggard and worried. There is

a knock on the door. Jack doesn't answer; the knock is

repeated.

He hides the documents under his pillow.

She comes in, sniffs the air.

Jack goes into the bathroom.

Sadie wanders around. She goes to the dresser, upon which is

a photograph of Anne Stanton. She picks up the picture and

places it so she can see it in the mirror and compare it

with her own reflection.

Jack watches her through the open bathroom door.

Jack, towel in hand, comes out and stands behind her. He

looks at her in the mirror, puzzled.

He slaps her hard.

She starts to laugh.

Exterior: Football Field, Day

A football team is practicing on the field. Willie watches

from the bench. A player kicks the ball and Tom misses it.

Jack walks over to Willie.

Out on the field the boys have stopped playing and are huddled

around the coach.

He goes over to the group on the field. The coach is talking

to Tom.

Willie comes up to them.

He walks away.

Exterior: Highway, Foggy Day

Sign in foreground reads: WILLIE STARK HIGHWAY U.S. 56. A

car swerves around a bend and careens down the highway.

Tom and his girl friend Helene are in the car. Tom is

drinking.

The car goes across a bridge, weaving. Two motorcycle cops

parked there start to give chase.

Tom's car swerves out of control and crashes through a fence.

The two motorcycle cops ride out to the field to the wrecked

car. They find Tom and Helene, unconscious. One of the cops

picks up the empty bottle and hands it to the other.

He throws the bottle away.

NEWSPAPER HEADLINES

GOVERNOR'S SON HURT:

GIRL NEAR DEATH IN CRASH

Below the headline is a picture of Helene Hale's father.

Another picture of Mr. Hale on the front page. Caption reads:

GIRL'S FATHER CLAIMS DRUNK DRIVING CAUSE OF WRECK

ADMITTANCE TO HOSPITAL DENIED PRESS

Interior: Governor's Mansion, Night

Lucy and Mr. Hale walk across the large reception room toward

Willie. Jack, Sugar Boy, and Duffy stand around in the

background.

Willie comes to meet them, a drink in his hand. He is

obviously drunk.

She goes.

Tom comes down the stairs, with Lucy.

Tom looks ill; he presses his hand to his forehead.

Tom walks slowly toward the stairs.

Hale sits down, shakes his head.

Duffy leaves, disgruntled. Willie sits on a coffee table. He

pours himself another drink.

Jack is silent.

He walks out of the room.

Sugar goes, leaving just Jack and Willie. Willie, very drunk,

tries to get up but falls against the piano.

He staggers up the long stairway. Halfway up he tumbles,

groaning. Jack helps him to his feet.

FADE IN:

NEWSPAPER

Photograph of Helene Hale on front page. Headline reads:

GIRL CRASH VICTIM DIES

Under the photograph there is a caption:

FATHER MYSTERIOUSLY DISAPPEARS AFTER BARING BRIBE OFFER BY

GOVERNOR STARK

Exterior: Governor's Mansion, Day

Willie, Jack, and Sugar Boy are accosted by a group of newsmen

as they come down the stairs.

Sugar Boy makes a move for the reporter but Willie holds him

back.

He leaves, followed by Jack and Sugar Boy.

Exterior: Football Field, Day

The game is in progress and the stands are packed. But there

is no cheering. Instead we hear boos, and shouts for Tom.

Exterior: Willie's Box

Willie, Jack, Sugar Boy, and Lucy are in one box. Sadie and

Duffy sit in the adjoining one. Willie is standing up. The

crowd continues to heckle him.

A drunk comes over to his box.

Willie signals angrily to the police.

The man is dragged away. The crowd boos, and Willie gets up

and leaves the box, followed by Jack.

Interior: Stadium Dressing Room, Day

Tom is sitting on one of the massage tables with a towel

around his shoulders as Willie and Jack come in. The sound

of the boos can still be heard.

Enraged, Willie slaps him. Tom fights back, and Jack has to

pull them apart.

Camera holds on Tom as Jack and Willie leave. He picks up

his uniform, stops, then rubs his head.

Exterior: Football Stadium, Day

Tom is on the field. He runs up to the coach.

The boos turn to cheers. The crowd applauds.

Willie signals from his box to the coach. He wants Tom sent

in. Tom runs out on the field and joins the team. The players

are lined up, in position to play. Tom shakes his head, as

if trying to clear it.

Exterior: Football Stadium, Time Lapse

The crowd yells excitedly. Tom, looking weary, gets the ball

and runs with it downfield. Three players tackle him hard

and fall on him. A silence falls over the stadium as he fails

to get up with the others.

In Willie's box, everyone is standing.

Willie rushes out onto the field and kneels beside Tom as

the doctor and stretcher bearers arrive.

Interior: Hospital Waiting Room, Night

Lucy and Willie are waiting for news about Tom. Sugar Boy

comes in with a paper bag and sets it on a table.

Willie motions him away.

Jack comes in.

Adam Stanton enters.

Lucy slumps in her chair.

They leave together.

Jack turns and walks away.

Exterior: Hospital, Night

Anne has been waiting outside the hospital. She turns to

Jack as he comes out the door.

They walk together, along the waterfront.

He grips her by the shoulders.

A policeman comes over.

Jack catches up to Anne. He takes her arm and they start to

walk back together.

FADE IN:

Exterior: Hospital Site, Day

Willie, Anne, Adam, and Jack inspect a construction site.

There are newsmen and photographers present.

They climb up onto the platform, where the newsmen gather

around to take pictures. Willie and Adam shake hands.

FADE IN:

Interior: Projection Room, Day

Willie, Jack, and Sugar Boy are watching a newsreel, similar

in style to the March of Time newsreels. A producer, his

assistant, and two policemen are also in the room.

MONTAGE: THE NEWSREEL

Large plaque on side of the highway: THIS BRIDGE WAS BUILT

DURING THE FIRST ADMINISTRATION OF GOVERNOR STARK. A TOLL

BRIDGE STOOD HERE FOR FIFTY YEARS... NOW THE PEOPLE TRAVEL

FREE

Camera pans to shot of the bridge.

Plaque over college entrance: STARK COLLEGE... THAT EVERY

MAN, WOMAN, OR CHILD, RICH OR POOR, SHALL HAVE AN EDUCATION...

WILLIE STARK

Shot of library -- lettering reads WILLIE STARK LIBRARY.

KNOWLEDGE BELONGS TO THE PEOPLE Shot of bad road running

through dry, barren land.

Shot of horse pulling a plow.

The empty, untraversed STARK HIGHWAY.

Shot of large school. Camera cuts to men working in the field,

then to ramshackle barn, and to a farmer walking across his

rotted cornfield.

Willie talking to the farmers.

Willie's official car and escort speeding through a street.

Sign reads: KANOMA CITY, BIRTHPLACE OF WILLIE STARK

Shot of Willie having his picture taken with Lucy and Pappy

on the porch of the old farm.

Willie mending the fence on the farm. Willie feeding the

pigs.

Willie making a speech to a huge crowd of cheering people.

Willie inspecting his police force.

Willie pounding the desk in the state legislature.

Big close-up of Willie as he delivers a speech.

The picture goes off and the lights in the room come on.

Willie stands and faces the producer.

They start to leave. Willie stops for a moment.

There is a silence. Willie's face is hard. Then he grins.

FADE IN:

NEWSPAPER HEADLINE

STARK BEGINS RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN

STATEWIDE TOUR STARTS WITH VISIT TO KANOMA CITY

EXTERIOR: STARK FARMHOUSE, DAY

Tom and Pappy Stark are seated on the porch. Tom is in a

wheelchair. Lucy comes onto the porch as the sound of sirens

is heard, and Willie's two cars, motorcycle escort, and the

car of reporters turn onto the drive. Tom, upset, flips his

cigarette away as the cars stop in front of the porch. Lucy

puts her hand on his shoulder to calm him. Then Willie climbs

up the steps to greet Lucy.

Tom doesn't answer. Lucy offers her cheek to Willie. Sadie,

Jack, and Sugar Boy wait at the bottom of the steps, along

with the reporters.

He starts arranging the family for the picture.

The cameras click.

Interior: Stark Farmhouse, Night

Willie is finishing his meal, seated at the table with his

family and Jack. Sugar Boy stands behind Willie. Sadie has

left the table and is examining the room.

Pappy leans over as Willie demonstrates how it works.

He turns the dial.

Pappy laughs delightedly. He reaches out to turn the dial.

Tom starts to wheel toward Willie, but Lucy restrains him.

Willie turns off the radio. There is a silence. Then Willie

turns to Lucy.

She leaves.

Tom wheels himself into his own room. Lucy starts to follow.

Suddenly Willie turns his face away.

Willie looks up at Jack and Pappy.

Jack hands him a bottle and he takes a slug.

Pappy shakes his head.

Exterior: Stark Farmhouse, Night

Pappy stays behind on the porch as Tom is carried in his

wheelchair down the steps and into Willie's car. Lucy follows.

The motorcycle escort leads them away from the farm.

Exterior: Highway, Night

As the cars speed to Capital City.

Interior: State Legislature, Night

There is great excitement in the assembly room. One senator

steps forward and addresses the speaker of the house.

His resolution is met with a mixture of cheers and boos.

Exterior: State Capitol, Night

A huge crowd is gathered outside. Pillsbury, Sadie, and Duffy,

waiting with the crowd, step forward as they see Willie's

car approach. Newsmen take pictures as Willie gets out of

the car.

He starts up the steps of the building.

Interior: Willie's Executive Offices, Night

Willie turns to Jack.

Willie turns to go into his private office.

Willie shrugs.

MONTAGE: THE IMPEACHMENT

Willie's car speeding down a road.

Willie, with Lucy and Tom seated behind him, addressing crowd.

Willie speaking from the back of a train to a railroad station

audience.

Close-ups of Willie, speaking to the people.

Sign on back of a car: FIGHT WITH WILLIE

Crowds carrying signs: WIN WITH WILLIE

Willie talking on the telephone. Sadie listens.

More men with WIN WITH WILLIE signs. Man directing crowd

from top of bus. Other bus loads of people are seen, all of

them bearing signs.

Crowd looks on as two uniformed police drag a man away.

Willie's car waiting. Two thugs talk things over with a man

on his doorstep.

Willie discussing matters with a man in his office. Two cops

stand with him.

Willie and Jack in the car. Sugar Boy drives. It is night.

Sugar Boy drives fast, and has to swerve to avoid colliding

with a truck.

Jack and Sugar wait in the car as Willie leans out the car

window to talk to a senator. He offers the man a piece of

paper.

Exterior: Highway, Night

Willie's car, as it races down the highway.

Exterior: Ferry to Burden's Landing, Night

Willie's car coming across on the ferry.

Exterior: Stanton Home, Night

As Willie's car stops and they all get out.

Jack goes into the house alone.

Interior: Judge Stanton's Study, Night

Jack and the Judge are seated opposite each other.

The door opens and Willie and Sugar Boy enter.

Willie takes a seat in an easy chair.

Willie picks up a decanter off the table.

Jack and Judge Stanton remain standing, silently watching

Willie.

The Judge shakes his head. He doesn't.

The Judge examines the papers.

There is silence. Then the three men get up to go. The Judge

closes the door behind them.

Interior: Stanton Hallway, Night

As the three men walk to the front door.

The front door opens, and Adam and Anne come in.

A shot is fired. They turn and rush into the Judge's study.

They find the Judge face downward in his leather chair. Adam

and Jack kneel beside him. Willie, holding on tightly to

Anne's arm, stands in the doorway. Jack picks up the Judge's

pistol and looks at Adam.

Exterior: Stanton Home, Night

Jack comes out of the house, followed by Anne and Adam.

Adam looks unbelievingly at Anne. She looks away.

FADE IN:

Interior: Jack's Hotel Room (State Capital), Day

Jack looks out the window. A portable radio is blaring out

the news.

Through Jack's window we see the street blocked with cars

and people, all headed for the State Capitol Building. Anne

is in the crowd, trying to get across the street. Seeing

Jack in the window, she pushes her way across and enters the

hotel. He slams the window shut and comes back into the room.

Jack turns it off. He goes over to his bed and starts putting

clothes into a valise. There is a knock on the door. He

ignores it. Another knock.

Anne enters.

She starts to cry. He grabs her, pulling her face close to

his.

He lets her go and she falls to the bed, sobbing.

He takes up his coat.

EXTERIOR: HOSPITAL SITE, DAY

A large billboard. It reads HERE ON THIS SITE WILL BE ERECTED

THE GOVERNOR STARK HOSPITAL -- TO HEAL SICKNESS -- TO EASE

PAIN -- FREE. NOT AS A CHARITY BUT AS A RIGHT. WILLIE STARK

Adam enters, looks at the sign, and walks on.

Exterior: Street Near Capitol Building, Day

Crowds of people headed toward the building, some with WIN

WITH WILLIE signs. A marching band plays music for them.

Exterior: Capitol Building, Day

Crowd waiting outside the building. Mounted policemen keep

them in line. From a large platform, loaded with people,

comes the chant "We want Willie, we want Willie." Jack pushes

his way through the people and speaks to a policeman standing

guard on the Capitol steps.

Jack turns and looks at the large crowd. A voice from a public

address loudspeaker begins to yell out commands to the crowd.

The chant is picked up enthusiastically by the crowd.

Interior: State Legislature, Day

The speaker is trying to speak over the clamor of the

chanting.

Willie gets up, and goes to the window.

Exterior: State Capitol, Day

The crowd, with Jack in the foreground. The crowd suddenly

goes wild as they see Willie appear at the window. In the

growing darkness he seems only a shadowy figure as he raises

his hands to wave to the crowd.

We see various shots of people straining to get a little

closer to the steps in order to see him better. Willie then

turns and goes back into the room.

Exterior: State Capitol, Day

The crowd again, still waiting. The camera pans upward to a

loudspeaker.

The camera moves over the faces of the people listening.

They cheer. Camera picks up Jack watching the crowd's

reaction, then up to a plaque over the entrance to the Capitol

Building. It reads THE PEOPLE'S WILL IS THE LAW OF THIS STATE --

GOVERNOR STARK.

Exterior: State Capitol, Night

Newsmen, photographers stand about, bored. The crowd, every

bit as large, is quiet but expectant. Everyone holds still

as the announcer's voice is heard again.

The crowd explodes. People break through the police barriers.

Mounted policemen ride in quickly to prevent a riot. Camera

picks up Anne in the crowd, trying to push through.

Jack stands on the steps of the Capitol, watching it all.

Suddenly Willie appears at the top of the steps, followed by

Sugar Boy. Sadie, Duffy, Pillsbury follow close behind. Willie

grabs hold of the mike and addresses the suddenly hushed

crowd.

Loud applause, and cries of "yes."

Having finished, he waves at them all. Then he notices Jack

and comes down the steps to greet him.

He walks back up the steps, his arm around Jack's shoulders.

They start to go into the building that way when Willie sees

someone. He smiles and puts out his hand.

Adam is seen, waiting at the entrance of the building. Before

Willie has taken a step Adam fires several shots into him.

Willie falls to the ground and Sugar Boy whips out his pistol

and fires at Adam. Three policemen with tommy guns open fire,

shooting into Adam's already fallen body. Then they turn and

point their guns at the mob of people rushing toward Willie,

forcing them back.

Sugar Boy kneels beside Willie. Sadie stands against a pillar,

looking down on him.

Jack looks up to see Anne struggling through the screaming

mob to get to Adam. She looks at Adam for a moment, then

turns away.

She doesn't answer, only walks away. He runs after her and

catches hold of her arm.

He turns her around so that she can see the crowds still

struggling to get a look at Willie.

A policeman approaches.

No reply.

She nods her head slowly. Jack walks through the building to

the pillar against which Willie has been propped. Sugar Boy

is still beside him. He stands behind Sadie and Duffy, looking

down at Willie.

His head droops to the side and he dies.

