INT. STAIRCASE OUTSIDE OLD SALIERI'S SALON - NIGHT - 1823

Total darkness. We hear an old man's voice, distinct and in

distress. It is OLD SALIERI. He uses a mixture of English

and occasionally Italian.

A faint light illuminates the screen. Flickeringly, we see

an eighteenth century balustrade and a flight of stone stairs.

We are looking down into the wall of the staircase from the

point of view of the landing. Up the stair is coming a

branched candlestick held by Salieri's VALET. By his side is

Salieri's COOK, bearing a large dish of sugared cakes and

biscuits. Both men are desperately worried: the Valet is

thin and middle-aged; the Cook, plump and Italian. It is

very cold. They wear shawls over their night-dresses and

clogs on their feet. They wheeze as they climb. The candles

throw their shadows up onto the peeling walls of the house,

which is evidently an old one and in bad decay. A cat scuttles

swiftly between their bare legs, as they reach the salon

door.

The Valet tries the handle. It is locked. Behind it the voice

goes on, rising in volume.

The Valet knocks gently on the door. The voice stops.

Silence.

The voice of Old Salieri continues again, further off now,

and louder. We hear a noise as if a window is being opened.

The two servants look at each other in alarm. Then the Valet

hands the candlestick to the Cook and takes a sugared cake

from the dish, scrambling as quickly as he can back down the

stairs.

EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE SALIERI'S HOUSE - VIENNA - NIGHT

The street is filled with people: ten cabs with drivers,

five children, fifteen adults, two doormen, fifteen dancing

couples and a sled and three dogs. It is a windy night. Snow

is falling and whirling about. People are passing on foot,

holding their cloaks tightly around them. Some of them are

revelers in fancy dress: they wear masks on their faces or

hanging around their necks, as if returning from parties.

Now they are glancing up at the facade of the old house.

The window above the street is open and Old Salieri stands

there calling to the sky: a sharp-featured, white-haired

Italian over seventy years old, wearing a stained dressing

gown.

The door of the house bursts open. The Valet hobbles out,

holding the sugared cake. The wind catches at his shawl.

Old Salieri stares down at him. Some of the passersby have

now stopped and are watching this spectacle.

Old Salieri looks at him in contempt. Then he turns away

back into the room, shutting the window with a bang. Through

the glass, the old man stares down at the group of onlookers

in the street. They stare back at him in confusion.

He makes a sign indicating 'crazy,' and goes back inside the

house. The onlookers keep staring.

INT. LANDING OUTSIDE OLD SALIERI'S SALON - NIGHT

The Cook is standing holding the candlestick in one hand,

the dish of cakes in the other. The Valet arrives, panting.

The Cook, scared, shakes his head: no. The Valet again knocks

on the door.

He eats the sugared cake in his hand, elaborately and noisily.

We hear a thump from inside the bedroom.

We hear a terrible, throaty groaning.

He looks down. From under the door we see a trickle of blood

flowing. In horror, the two men stare at it. The dish of

cakes falls from the Cook's hand and shatters.

He sets the candlestick down on the floor. Both servants run

at the door frantically - once, twice, three times - and the

frail lock gives. The door flies open.

Immediately, the stormy, frenzied opening of Mozart's Symphony

No. 25 (the Little G Minor) begins. We see what the servants

see.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S SALON - NIGHT

Old Salieri lies on the floor in a pool of blood, an open

razor in his hand. He has cut his throat but is still alive.

He gestures at them. They run to him. Barely, we glimpse the

room - an old chair, old tables piled with books, a forte-

piano, a chamber-pot on the floor - as the Valet and the

Cook struggle to lift their old Master, and bind his bleeding

throat with a napkin.

INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT

Twenty-five dancing couples, fifty guests, ten servants,

full orchestra.

As the music slows a little, we see a Masquerade Ball in

progress. A crowded room of dancers is executing the slow

portion of a dance fashionable in the early 1820's.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE SALIERI'S HOUSE - NIGHT

As the fast music returns, we see Old Salieri being carried

out of his house on a stretcher by two attendants, and placed

in a horse-drawn wagon under the supervision of a middle-

aged doctor in a tall hat. This is DOCTOR GULDEN. He gets in

beside his patient. The driver whips up the horse, and the

wagon dashes off through the still-falling snow.

MONTAGE:

EXT. FOUR STREETS OF VIENNA AND

INT. THE WAGON - NIGHT

The wagon is galloping through the snowy streets of the city.

Inside the conveyance we see Old Salieri wrapped in blankets,

half-conscious, being held by the hospital attendants. Doctor

Gulden stares at him grimly. The wagon arrives outside the

General Hospital of Vienna.

INT. A HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - LATE AFTERNOON

A wide, white-washed corridor. Doctor Gulden is walking down

it with a priest, a man of about forty, concerned, but

somewhat self-important. This is Father VOGLER, Chaplain at

the hospital. In the corridor as they walk, we note several

patients -- some of them visibly disturbed mentally. All

patients wear white linen smocks. Doctor Gulden wears a dark

frock-coat; Vogler, a cassock.

They stop outside a door.

Vogler nods and opens the door.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

A bare room - one of the best available in the General

Hospital. It contains a bed, a table with candles, chairs, a

small forte-piano of the early nineteenth century. As Vogler

enters, Old Salieri is sitting in a wheel-chair, looking out

the window. His back is to us. The priest closes the door

quietly behind him.

Old Salieri turns around to look at him. We see that his

throat is bandaged expertly. He wears hospital garb, and

over it the Civilian Medal and Chain with which we will later

see the EMPEROR invest him.

He propels his wheelchair to the forte-piano, and plays an

unrecognizable melody.

He plays another tune.

He plays it with growing enthusiasm.

INT. THE STAGE OF AN OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

We see the pretty soprano KATHERINA CAVALIERI, now about

twenty-four, dressed in an elaborate mythological Persian

costume, singing on stage. She's near the end of a very florid

aria by Salieri. The audience applauds wildly.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON - 1823

Slyly he plays the opening measure of Mozart's Eine Kleine

Nachtmusik. The priest nods, smiling suddenly, and hums a

little with the music.

A very long pause. Salieri stares above the priest, seemingly

lost in his own private world.

A further pause.

Pause.

Suddenly Old Salieri turns to him, a look of extreme

innocence.

EXT. A SMALL TOWN SQUARE IN LOMBARDY, ITALY - DAY - 1780'S

There are twelve children and twenty adults in the square.

We see the fourteen-year-old Salieri blindfolded, playing a

game of Blindman's Bluff with other Italian children, running

about in the bright sunshine and laughing.

INT. A SALON IN THE VATICAN - DAY - 1780'S

We see the six-year-old MOZART, also blindfolded, seated in

a gilded chair on a pile of books, playing the harpsichord

for the POPE and a suite of CARDINALS and other churchmen.

Beside the little boy stands LEOPOLD, his father, smirking

with pride.

The piece finishes. Leopold lowers the lid of the harpsichord

and lifts up his little son to stand on it. Mozart removes

the blindfold to show a pale little face with staring eyes.

Both father and son bow. A Papal Chamberlain presents Leopold

with a gold snuff box whilst the cardinals decorously applaud.

Over this scene Old Salieri speaks.

EXT. A COUNTRY CHURCH IN NORTH ITALY - DAY - 1780'S

Serene music of the Italian Baroque - Pergolesi's Stabat

Mater - sung by a choir of boys with organ accompaniment.

We see the outside of the 17th-century church sitting in the

wide landscape of Lombardy: sunlit fields, a dusty, white

road, poplar trees.

INT. THE CHURCH AT LEGNAGO - DAY - 1780'S

The music continues and swells. We see the twelve-year-old

Salieri seated between his plump and placid parents in the

congregation, listening in rapture. His father is a heavy-

looking, self-approving man, obviously indifferent to the

music. A large and austere Christ on the cross hangs over

the altar. Candles burn below his image.

The boy falls forward on his knees. So do his parents and

the other members of the congregation. He stares up at Christ

who stares back at him.

The music swells to a crescendo. The candles flare. We see

the Christ through the flames looking at the boy benignly.

INT. DINING ROOM IN THE SALIERI HOUSE - DAY - 1780'S

CU, a large cooked fish on a thick china plate. Camera pulls

back to show the Salieri family at dinner. Father Salieri

sits at the head of the table, a napkin tucked into his chin.

Mother Salieri is serving the fish into portions and handing

them round. Two maiden aunts are in attendance, wearing black,

and of course the young boy. Father Salieri receives his

plate of fish and starts to eat greedily. Suddenly there is

a gasp - he starts to choke violently on a fish bone. All

the women get up and crowd around him, thumping and pummeling

him, but it is in vain. Father Salieri collapses.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON - 1823

INT. THE ARCHBISHOP OF SALZBURG'S RESIDENCE - VIENNA - DAY -

1780'S

A grand room crowded with guests. A small group of Gypsy

musicians is playing in the background. Thirteen members of

the Archbishop's orchestra - all wind players, complete with

18th-century wind instruments: elaborate-looking bassoons,

basset horns, etc. and wearing their employer's livery - are

laying out music on stands at one end of the room. At the

other end is a large gilded chair, bearing the arms of the

ARCHBISHOP OF SALZBURG. A throng of people is standing,

talking, and preparing to sit upon the rows of waiting chairs

to hear a concert.

We see Salieri, age thirty-one, a neat, carefully turned-cut

man in decent black clothes and clean white linen, walking

through the crowd of guests. We follow him.

We see shots of assorted young men staring back at Salieri

as he moves through the crowd.

Some of the men recognize Salieri and bow respectfully. Then

suddenly a servant bearing a large tray of cakes and pastries

stalks past. Instantly riveted by the sight of such delights,

Salieri follows him out of the Grand Salon.

INT. A PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S

The servant marches along bearing his tray of pastries aloft.

Salieri follows him.

The servant turns into:

INT. BUFFET ROOM IN THE PALACE - DAY - 1780'S

Salieri's POV: several tables, dressed to the floor with

cloths are loaded with many plates of confectionery. It is,

in fact, Salieri's idea of paradise! The servant puts his

tray down on one of the tables and withdraws from the room.

INT. A PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S

Salieri turns away so as not to be noticed by the servant.

As soon as the man disappears, Salieri sneaks into the buffet

room.

INT. BUFFET ROOM IN THE PALACE - DAY - 1780'S

Salieri enters the room and looks about him cautiously. He

is salivating with anticipation as he stares at the feast of

sweet things. His attention is attracted in particular by a

huge pile of dark chocolate balls arranged in the shape of a

pineapple. He reaches out a hand to steal one of the balls,

but at the same moment he hears giggling coming toward him.

He ducks down behind the pastry table.

A girl - CONSTANZE - rushes into the room. She runs straight

across it and hides herself behind one of the tables.

After a beat of total silence, MOZART runs into the room,

stops, and looks around. He is age twenty-six, wearing a

fine wig and a brilliant coat with the insignia of the

Archbishop of Salzburg upon it. He is puzzled; Constanze has

disappeared.

Baffled, he turns and is about to leave the room, when

Constanze suddenly squeaks from under the cloth like a tiny

mouse. Instantly Mozart drops to all fours and starts crawling

across the floor, meowing and hissing like a naughty cat.

Watched by an astonished Salieri, Mozart disappears under

the cloth and obviously pounces upon Constanze. We hear a

high-pitched giggle, which is going to characterize Mozart

throughout the film.

INT. PALACE GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S

The throng is mostly seated. The musicians are in their

places, holding their various exotic-looking wind instruments;

the candles are all lit. A Majordomo appears and bangs his

staff on the floor for attention. Immediately COLLOREDO,

Prince-Archbishop of Salzburg enters. He is a small self-

important figure of fifty in a wig, surmounted by a scarlet

skullcap. He is followed by his Chamberlain, the Count ARCO.

Everyone stands. The Archbishop goes to his throne and sits.

His guests sit also. Arco gives the signal to start the music.

Nothing happens. Instead, a wind musician gets up, approaches

the Chamberlain and whispers in his ear. Arco in turn whispers

to the Archbishop.

INT. A PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S

Three servants are opening doors and looking into rooms going

off the corridor.

INT. PALACE GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S

The guests are turning around and looking at the Archbishop.

The musicians are watching. There is puzzlement and a murmur

of comment. The Archbishop tightens his lip.

INT.   PALACE BUFFET ROOM - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart is on his knees before the tablecloth, which reaches

to the floor. Under it is Constanze. We hear her giggling as

he talks.

He grabs her ankle. She screams. He pulls her out by her

leg.

They roll on the floor. He tickles her.

He tries to drag her back under the table.

She laughs delightedly, then addresses an imaginary

Archbishop.

He gives a high pitched giggle.

The mood becomes suddenly softer. She kisses him. They

embrace. Then he spoils it.

Shocked, she strikes at him. At the same moment the music

starts in the salon next door. We hear the opening of the

Serenade for Thirteen Wind Instruments, K.

He leaps up, disheveled and rumpled and runs out of the room.

Salieri watches in amazement and disgust.

INT. PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S

The music is louder. Mozart hastens towards the Grand Salon

away from the buffet room, adjusting his dress as he goes.

INT. GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S

The opening of the Serenade is being tentatively conducted

by the leader of the wind-musicians. Guests turn around as

Mozart appears - bowing to the Archbishop - and walks with

an attempt at dignity to the dais where the wind band is

playing. The leader yields his place to the composer and

Mozart smoothly takes over conducting.

Constanze, deeply embarrassed, sneaks into the room and seats

herself at the back.

INT. PALACE BUFFET ROOM - DAY - 1780'S

The music fades down. Salieri stands shocked from his

inadvertent eavesdropping. After a second he moves almost in

a trance toward the door; the music dissolves.

INT. GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart is conducting the Adagio from his Serenade (K. 361),

guiding the thirteen wind instrumentalists. The squeezebox

opening of the movement begins. Salieri appears at the door

at the back of the salon. He stares in disbelief at Mozart.

The music swells up and Salieri listens to it with eyes closed -

amazed, transported - suddenly engulfed by the sound. Finally

it fades down and away and changes into applause. Salieri

opens his eyes.

The audience is clearly delighted. Mozart bows to them, also

delighted. Colloredo rises abruptly, and without looking at

Mozart or applauding and leaves the Salon. Count Arco

approaches the composer. Mozart turns to him, radiant.

He follows Arco out of the room, through a throng of admirers.

INT. ANOTHER PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart and Arco walk side by side. They pass Salieri who is

staring at Mozart in fascination. As they disappear, he steals

toward the music stands, unable to help himself.

They arrive at the door of Colloredo's private apartment.

Arco opens the door.

INT. ARCHBISHOP'S PRIVATE ROOM - DAY - 1780'S

The Archbishop is sitting, chatting to quests. Among them

are several ladies. Arco approaches him obsequiously.

The company watches this scene, deeply interested.

He extends his hand to be kissed. Mozart does it with a

furious grace, then leaves the room. As he opens the door we

see:

INT. PALACE CORRIDOR - DAY - 1780'S

A group of people who have attended the concert, among them

Constanze, are standing outside the private apartment. At

sight of the composer they break into sustained applause.

Mozart is suddenly delighted. He throws the door wide open

so that the guests can see into the private apartment where

the Archbishop sits - and he can see them. Colloredo is

clearly discomfited by this reception of his employee. He

smiles and bows uneasily, as they include him in the small

ovation.

Mozart stands in the corridor, out of the Archbishop's line

of sight, bowing and giggling, and encouraging the applause

for the Archbishop with conducting gestures. Suddenly

irritated, Colloredo signs to Arco, who steps forward and

shuts the door, ending the applause.

INT. PALACE GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S

Salieri, in this vast room, is standing and looking at the

full score of the Serenade. He turns the pages back to the

slow movement. Instantly, we again hear its lyrical strains.

CU, Salieri, reading the score of the Adagio in helpless

fascination. The music is played against his description of

it.

Suddenly the music snaps off. Mozart stands before him as he

lays down the score.

He takes the score, bows, and struts briskly out of the room.

Salieri stares uncomprehendingly after the jaunty little

figure.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

INT. PALACE DINING ROOM - DAY - 1780'S

At the table sits the EMPEROR JOSEPH II, eating his frugal

dinner and sipping goat's milk. He is an intelligent, dapper

man of forty, wearing a military uniform. Around him but

standing, are his Chamberlain, JOHANN VON STRACK: stiff and

highly correct. COUNT ORSINI-ROSENBERG: a corpulent man of

sixty, highly conscious of his position as Director of the

Opera. BARON VON SWIETEN, the Imperial Librarian: a grave

but kindly and educated man in his mid-fifties. FIRST

KAPELLMEISTER GIUSEPPE BONNO: very Italian, cringing and

time-serving, aged about seventy. And Salieri, wearing

decorous black, as usual.

At a side-table, two Imperial secretaries, using quill pens

and inkstands, write down everything of importance that is

said.

He looks defiantly at Orsini-Rosenberg.

INT. BEDROOM IN SALIERI'S APARTMENT - DAY - 1780'S

A somber room which serves both as a bedroom and a study.

We see a four-poster bed. Also, a marble mantelpiece above

which hangs a handsome cross in olivewood, bearing the figure

of a severe Christ. Opposite this image sits Salieri at his

desk, on which stands a pile of music paper, quill pens and

ink. On one side of him is an open forte-piano on which he

occasionally tries notes from the march he is composing,

with some difficulty. He scratches notes out with his quill,

and ruffles his hair - which we see without a powdered wig.

There is a knock at the door.

A servant admits LORL, a young lower-class girl, who appears

carrying a basket in which is a box covered with a napkin.

She has just come from the baker's shop.

Greedily he unwraps the napkin and lifts the lid on the box.

He takes a biscuit and eats.

She gives a little curtsey, flattered and giggling and is

shown out. Salieri turns back to his work, chewing. He plays

through a complete line of the march. He smiles, pleased

with the result.

He inclines his head to the Christ above the  fireplace, and

starts to play the whole march, including the phrase which

pleased him.

INT. A WIGMAKER'S SHOP - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

The march continues on the forte-piano as we see Mozart,

seated in front of a mirror, wearing an extravagant wig. On

either side of him stands a SALESMAN, one of them holding

another wig, equally extravagant. Mozart takes off the first

wig, to reveal his own blonde hair, of which he is extremely

proud, and hands it back.

The Salesman puts the second wig on his head. Mozart pulls a

face of doubt in the mirror.

He takes it off and the other Salesman replaces it with the

first wig on his head.

He giggles. The music stops.

INT. GRAND SALON - THE ROYAL PALACE - DAY - 1780'S

A door opens. We glimpse in the next room the Emperor Joseph

bidding goodbye to a group of military officers standing

around a table.

He turns and comes into the salon, where another group awaits

him. It consists of Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg, Bonno, Von

Swieten and Salieri. The room contains several gilded chairs

dotted about, and a forte-piano.

All bow and say, Good morning, Your Majesty!

He produces a paper.

The Emperor goes to the instrument, sits and plays the first

bars of it. Quite well.

The Majordomo bows and goes. The Emperor addresses himself

to the march. He plays a wrong note.

INT. PALACE CORRIDOR - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

Taking his instructions literally, the Majordomo is marching

very slowly toward the salon door. He is followed by a

bewildered Mozart, dressed very stylishly and wearing one of

the wigs from the perruqier.

INT. ROYAL PALACE GRAND SALON - DAY - 1780'S

Joseph finishes the march. The door opens.

Mozart comes in eagerly. Immediately the march begins, played

by His Majesty. All the courtiers stand, listening with

admiration. Joseph plays well, but applies himself fiercely

to the manuscript. Mozart, still bewildered, regards the

scene, but does not seem to pay attention to the music itself.

It finishes and all clap obsequiously.

The Emperor rises, pleased with himself. He snatches the

manuscript off the stand and holds it in his hand for the

rest of the scene.

He extends his hand. Mozart throws himself to his knees, and

to Joseph's discomfort kisses the royal hand with fervour.

Embarrassed, Mozart bursts into a wild giggle. Joseph helps

him out.

Von Strack and Bonno nod.

Orsini-Rosenberg nods without enthusiasm.

He bows elaborately. Salieri inclines himself, dryly.

He stops short with a little giggle.

He giggles again. Orsini-Rosenberg looks at him sourly.

The Italian faction - Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno - laugh

discreetly.

An embarrassed pause. Bonno giggles in nervous amusement.

Pause. Joseph is clearly pleased.

He nods - he has wanted this result all the time. He turns

and makes for the door. All bow. Then he becomes aware of

the manuscript in his hand.

Mozart does not take it.

Pause.

Mozart bows and hands the manuscript back to the Emperor.

Then he goes to the forte-piano and seats himself. The others,

except for Salieri, gather around the manuscript held by the

King. Mozart plays the first half of the march with deadly

accuracy.

He plays the first half again but stops in the middle of a

phrase, which he repeats dubiously.

All the courtiers look at Salieri.

He plays another phrase.

He plays another phrase. Gradually, he alters the music so

that it turns into the celebrated march to be used later in

The Marriage of Figaro, Non Piu Andrai. He plays it with

increasing abandon and virtuosity. Salieri watches with a

fixed smile on his face. The court watches, astonished. He

finishes in great glory, takes his hands off the keys with a

gesture of triumph - and grins.

INT. BEDROOM IN SALIERI'S APARTMENT - DAY - 1780'S

We see the olivewood cross. Salieri is sitting at his desk,

staring at it.

There is a knock at the door. He does not hear it, but sits

on. Another knock, louder.

Lorl comes in.

He gets up and enters:

INT. MUSIC ROOM IN SALIERI'S APARTMENT - DAY - 1780'S

KATHERINA CAVALIERI, a young, high-spirited soprano of twenty

is waiting for him, dressed in a fashionable dress and wearing

on her head an exotic turban of satin, with a feather. Lorl

exits.

He seats himself at the forte-piano.

He plays a chord. She sings a scale, expertly. He strikes

another chord. She starts another scale, then breaks off.

He strikes the chord again, firmly. Cavalieri sings her next

scale, then another one, and another one, doing her exercises

in earnest. As she hits a sustained high note the orchestral

accompaniment in the middle of Martern Aller Arten from Il

Seraglio comes in underneath and the music changes from

exercises to the exceedingly florid aria.

We DISSOLVE on the singer's face, and she is suddenly not

merely turbaned, but painted and dressed totally in a Turkish

manner, and we are on:

INT. OPERA STAGE - VIENNA - 1780'S

The heroine of the opera (Cavalieri) is in full cry addressing

the Pasha with scorn and defiance.

The house is full. Watching the performance - which is

conducted by Mozart from the clavier in the midst of the

orchestra - we note Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg, Bonno and

Von Swieten, all grouped around the Emperor, in a box.

In another box we see an overdressed, middle-aged woman and

three girls, one of whom is Constanze. This is the formidable

MADAME WEBER and her three daughters, Constanze, JOSEFA and

SOPHIE. All are enraptured by the spectacle and Madame Weber

is especially enraptured by being there at all. Not so,

Salieri, who sits in another box, coldly watching the stage.

Cavalieri is singing Martern aller Arten from the line Doch

du bist entschlossen.

After a few moments of this showy aria, with the composer

and the singer staring at each other - he conducting

elaborately for her benefit, and she following his beat with

rapturous eyes - the music fades, and Salieri speaks over

it.

Music up again for the last 30 bars of the aria.

Before the orchestral coda ends, cut to:

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

Through the window we see that night has fallen.

INT.   THE OPERA HOUSE - VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S

The brilliant Turkish finale of Seraglio bursts over us.

All the cast is lined up on stage. Mozart is conducting with

happy excitement.

The curtains fall. Much applause. The Emperor claps vigorously

and - following his lead - so do the courtiers. The curtains

part. Mozart applauds the singers who applaud him back. He

skips up onto the stage amongst them. The curtains fall again

as they all bow. In the auditorium, the chandeliers descend,

filling it with light.

INT. OPERA HOUSE STAGE -  VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S

The curtains are down, and an excited hubbub of singers in

costume surround Mozart and Cavalieri, all excited and

chattering. Suddenly a hush. The Emperor is seen approaching

from the wings, lit by flunkies holding candles. Von Strack,

Orsini-Rosenberg and Von Swieten, amongst others, follow

him. Also Salieri. The singers line up. Joseph stops at

Cavalieri who makes a deep curtsey.

INT. BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR -  VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S

INT. OPERA HOUSE STAGE -  VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S

All are applauding Cavalieri. The Emperor turns to Mozart.

Mozart bows frantically: he is over-excited.

Pause. General embarrassment.

Into this uncomfortable scene bursts a sudden eruption of

noise and Madame Weber floods onto the stage, followed by

her daughters. All turn to look at this amazing spectacle.

She moves toward Mozart with arms outstretched in an absurd

theatrical gesture, then sees the Emperor. She stares at

him, mesmerized, her mouth open, unable even to curtsey.

Mozart moves forward quickly.

Constanze curtsies. CU, of Cavalieri, astonished at the news.

CU, of Salieri, watching her receive it.

He giggles uncomfortably.

Cavalieri is glaring at Mozart. Mozart looks hastily away

from her.

She attempts to kiss the royal hand, but faints instead.

The Emperor contemplates her prone body and steps back a

pace.

He nods pleasantly to all and leaves the stage, with his

Chamberlain. All bow.

Cavalieri turns with a savage look at Mozart and leaves the

stage the opposite way, to her dressing room, tossing her

plumed head. Salieri watches. Mozart stays for a second,

indecisive whether to follow the soprano or help Madame Weber.

He hurries away. The daughters gather around Madame Weber.

INT. CAVALIERI'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

Katherina sits fuming at her mirror. A dresser is taking the

pins out of her wig as she stares straight ahead of her.

Mozart sticks his head round the door.

He dashes off.

INT. OPERA HOUSE STAGE - VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S

Constanze and Mozart make their way quickly through a crowd

of actors in turbans and caftans, and stagehands carrying

bits of the dismantled set of Seraglio. We see all the turmoil

of backstage after a performance.

A fireman passes Mozart carrying a small bucket of water.

Mozart snatches it from him and pushes his way through the

crowd to Madame Weber, who still lies prone on the stage.

Mozart pushes through the crowd surrounding her and throws

water on her face. She is instantly revived by the shock.

Constanze assists her to rise.

Instead of being furious, Madame Weber smiles at them

rapturously.

The activity continues to swirl around them.

INT. CAVALIERI'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

Cavalieri, still in costume, is marching up and down, very

agitated.

She catches him looking at her and tries to compose herself.

Mozart comes in unexpectedly.

She seats herself at her mirror and removes her wig.

Salieri looks astonished. There is a knock on the door.

The door opens. Constanze enters.

Mozart hurries Constanze out of the door. Cavalieri looks

after them as they go, her voice breaking and rising out of

control.

She turns and collapses, crying with rage, into Salieri's

arms. We focus on him.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1820'S

The old man speaks passionately to the priest.

INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAY - 1780'S

The young Salieri is kneeling in desperation before the Cross.

CU, Christ staring from the Cross.

INT. AUDIENCE HALL - ARCHBISHOP'S PALACE - SALZBURG - DAY -

1780'S

We see Leopold kneeling now not to the Cross but to Archbishop

Colloredo, sitting impassively on his throne. Count Arco

stands beside him. Leopold is a desperate, once-handsome man

of sixty, now far too much the subservient courtier.

In deepest gratitude he kisses the Archbishop's hand. He

motions Leopold to rise. We hear the first dark fortissimo

chord which begins the Overture to Don Giovanni: the theme

associated with the character of the Commendatore.

The second fortissimo chord sounds.

INT. A BAROQUE CHURCH - DAY - 1780'S

We see a huge CU, of Mozart's head, looking front and down,

as if reading his father's letter. We hear Leopold's voice

over this image, no longer whining and anxious, but

impressive.

The camera pulls back to see that he is in fact kneeling

beside Constanze. A PRIEST faces them. Behind them are Madame

Weber, Josefa and Sophie Weber, and a very few others. Among

them, a merry looking lady in bright clothes: the BARONESS

WALDSTADTEN.

The opening kyrie of the great Mass in C Minor is heard.

Mozart and Constanze kiss. They are in tears. Madame Weber

and her daughters look on approvingly. The music swells and

continues under the following:

INT. A ROOM IN LEOPOLD'S HOUSE - SALZBURG - NIGHT - 1780'S

There is a view of a castle in background. Leopold sits alone

in his room. He is reading a letter from Wolfgang. At his

feet are his trunks, half-packed for the journey he will not

now take. We hear Mozart's voice reading the following letter

and we see, as the camera roves around the room, mementos of

the young prodigy's early life: the little forte-piano made

for him; the little violin made for him; an Order presented

to him. We see a little starling in a wicker cage. And we

see portraits of the boy on the walls, concluding with the

familiar family portrait of Wolfgang and his sister Nannerl

seated at the keyboard with Leopold standing, and the picture

of their mother on the wall behind them.

The music of the Mass fades as Leopold crumples the letter

in his hand.

EXT. THE IMPERIAL GARDENS - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

Salieri stands waiting, hat in hand. Beside him stands a

royal servant. Behind him, gardeners are glimpsed tending

the shrubs and bushes along a grassy ride. Down this ride

are seen cantering two people on horseback: the Emperor Joseph

and his niece, the PRINCESS ELIZABETH. They are mounted on

glossy horses. The Princess rides side-saddle. Running beside

her is a panting groom. The Emperor rides elegantly; his

niece, a dumpy little Hapsburg girl of sixteen, like a sack

of potatoes. As they draw level with Salieri they stop, and

the groom holds the head of the Princess' horse. Salieri

bows respectfully.

Out of breath, the Princess nods nervously.

He smiles at Salieri.

Salieri's face falls, almost imperceptibly.

He rides on. The groom releases her horse's head, and runs

on after the Princess.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN VON STRACK'S STUDY - DAY - 1780'S

Von Strack sits stiffly behind his gilded desk. Mozart stands

before him, trembling with anger.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

The room is very small and untidy. Constanze is marching up

and down it, upset. Mozart is lying on the bed.

She glares at him, almost in tears.

INT. SALIERI'S MUSIC ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON - 1780'S

Salieri is giving a lesson to a girl student, who is singing

the Italian art song, Caro Mio Ben.

There is a knock on the door.

A SERVANT enters.

Salieri goes into the salon.

INT. THE SALON - LATE AFTERNOON - 1780'S

Constanze stands, closely veiled, holding a portfolio stuffed

with manuscripts. The singing lesson ends, with two chords

on the instrument. Salieri enters the salon. Constanze drops

him a shy curtsey.

Shyly, she unveils.

He takes the portfolio and puts it on a table.

A short pause.

He indicates a dish piled high with glazed chestnuts.

He offers her the dish. She takes one and puts it in her

mouth. He watches carefully.

He takes one himself. We notice on his finger a heavy gold

signet-ring.

He smiles at her. She takes another chestnut.

A pause. He puts out his hand and takes up the portfolio

from the table. He opens it. He looks at the music. He is

puzzled.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

The old man faces the Priest.

Vogler stares at him.

INT. SALIERI'S SALON - LATE AFTERNOON - 1780'S

CU, The manuscript in Mozart's handwriting. The music begins

to sound under the following:

The music swells. What we now hear is an amazing collage of

great passages from Mozart's music, ravishing to Salieri and

to us. The Court Composer, oblivious to Constanze, who sits

happily chewing chestnuts, her mouth covered in sugar, walks

around and around his salon, reading the pages and dropping

them on the floor when he is done with them. We see his

agonized and wondering face: he shudders as if in a rough

and tumbling sea; he experiences the point where beauty and

great pain coalesce. More pages fall than he can read,

scattering across the floor in a white cascade, as he circles

the room.

Finally, we hear the tremendous Qui Tollis from the Mass in

C Minor. It seems to break over him like a wave and, unable

to bear any more of it, he slams the portfolio shut.

Instantly, the music breaks off, reverberating in his head.

He stands shaking, staring wildly. Constanze gets up,

perplexed.

A pause.

Another pause.

Salieri tries to recover himself.

Overjoyed, she stops and kisses his hand. He raises her -

and then clasps her to him clumsily. She pushes herself away.

They stare at one another: Constanze in total disbelief.

He glares at her.

He rings a silver bell for a servant and abruptly leaves the

roam. Constanze stares after him, horrified.

The servant enters. Shocked and stunned, Constanze goes down

an her knees and starts picking up the music from the floor.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

CU, Father Vogler, horrified.

INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

Salieri sits at his desk, staring up at the cross.

Long, long silence. Salieri stares at the cross. Christ stares

back at him impassively. Finally in this silence we hear a

faint knocking at the door. Salieri stirs himself. A servant

appears.

The Servant bows and leaves. We follow him through:

INT. MUSIC ROOM IN SALIERI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - 1780'S

The Servant crosses it and enters:

INT. SALON IN SALIERI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - 1780'S

Constanze is sitting on an upright chair, veiled as before,

the portfolio of music on her lap. Through the far door

leading from the hall, another servant is peering at her.

The first servant joins him and shuts the door on the girl,

leaving her alone.

We stay with her. The clock ticks on the mantelpiece. We

hear an old carriage pass in the street below. Nervously she

lifts her veil and looks about her.

Suddenly Salieri appears from the music room. He is pale and

very tight. They regard each other. She smiles and rises to

greet him, affecting a relaxed and warm manner, as if to put

him at his ease.

A pause.

As she talks, she extinguishes the candles in a pair of

Venetian candelabra and subsequently other candles around

the room.

She turns and takes off her shawl.

She picks up the portfolio.

She looks at him inquiringly, and drops the portfolio on the

floor; pages of music pour out of it. Instantly we hear a

massive chord, and the great Qui Tollis from the Mass in C

Minor fills the room. To its grand and weighty sound,

Constanze starts to undress, watched by the horrified Salieri.

Between him and her, music is an active presence, hurting

and baffling him. He opens his mouth in distress. The music

pounds in his head. The candle flickers over her as she

removes her clothes and prepares for his embrace. Suddenly

he cries out.

He snatches up the bell and shakes it frantically, not

stopping until the two servants we saw earlier appear at the

door. The music stops abruptly. They stare at the appalled

and frightened Constanze, who is desperately trying to cover

her nakedness.

Constanze hurls herself at him.

He seizes her wrists and thrusts her back. Then he leaves

the room quickly, slamming the door behind him. Constanze

turns and sees the two servants goggling at her in the room.

Wildly, she picks up the candelabrum and throws it at them.

It shatters on the floor.

INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

CU, Salieri standing, his eyes shut, shaking in distress.

He opens them and sees Christ across the room, staring at

him from the wall.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

The old man is reliving the experience. Vogler looks at him,

horrified.

INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

CU, the fireplace. In it lies the olivewood Christ on the

cross, burning.

The cross flames up and disintegrates. Salieri stares at it.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

The front door bursts open. Mozart stumbles in, followed by

EMMANUEL SCHIKANEDER, three young actresses, and another

man, all fairly drunk. Schikaneder (who appears everywhere

accompanied by young girls) is a large, fleshy, extravagant

man of about thirty-five.

The others laugh.

He walks unsteadily to the bedroom door and opens it.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

Constanze lies in bed, her back turned to her husband, who

comes into the room and shuts the door.

She turns around abruptly. She looks dreadful; her eyes red

with weeping. Mozart is shocked.

He approaches the bed and sits on it. Immediately she starts

crying again, desperately.

He holds her and she clings to him in a fierce embrace, crying

a flood of tears.

She starts crying again, throwing her arms around his neck.

INT. THE ROYAL PALACE - DINING ROOM - DAY - 1780'S

Joseph sits eating. A butler serves him goat's milk to drink.

Joseph is holding a memorandum from Salieri in his hand.

Salieri stands before him.

With a gesture Joseph dismisses the butler, who bows and

leaves the room.

A pause.

INT. SALIERI'S HOUSE - STAIRCASE - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

Salieri has just returned from the palace and is coming up

the staircase. He is met by his servant.

Salieri is plainly alarmed.

He mounts the stairs.

INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - SALON - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart is waiting for Salieri, holding a portfolio. Salieri

approaches him nervously. Mozart stands not belligerently,

but humbly.

Salieri looks at him in distress.

Mozart chuckles delightedly. Salieri offers him a glass of

white dessert and a spoon. Mozart takes it absently and goes

on talking.

INT. MICHAEL SCHLUMBERG'S HOUSE - MORNING - 1780'S

Hysterical barking and howling. The hall is full of dogs, at

least five, all jumping up and dashing about and making a

terrific racket. Mozart, dandified in a new coat and a plumed

hat for the occasion, has arrived to teach at the house of a

prosperous merchant, MICHAEL SCHLUMBERG. Bluff, friendly and

coarse-looking, he stands in his hall amidst the leaping and

barking animals, greeting Mozart.

He leads Mozart through the throng of dogs into a salon

furnished with comfortable middle-class taste.

FRAU SCHLUMBERG appears: an anxious woman in middle life.

GERTRUDE SCHLUMBERG appears in the doorway: an awkward girl

of fifteen in her best dress, her hair primped and curled.

She is exceedingly nervous.

Gertrude giggles instead.

He leads the way into:

INT. MUSIC ROOM - DAY - 1780'S

A forte-piano is open and waiting. All the dogs follow him.

After them come Mozart Frau and Fraulein Schlumberg. To

Mozart's dismay, husband and wife seat themselves quite

formally on a little narrow sofa, side by side.

The dogs settle at their feet. Husband and wife smile

encouragingly at each other.

Mozart gestures to the music bench. Reluctantly, the girl

sits at the instrument. Mozart sits beside her.

In response the wretched girl just stares down at the keyboard

without playing a note. An awkward pause.

Husband and wife look at each other.

Silence. The girl sits unmoving. Schlumberg bellows:

Suddenly the girl rises. Mozart smiles at the parents. They

smile nervously back. Mozart slides along the bench, raises

his hands and preludes over the keys. Instantly a dog howls

loudly. Startled, Mozart stops. Schlumberg leaps to his feet

and goes over to the beagle.

Mozart resumes playing. This time it is a lively piece,

perhaps the Presto Finale from the K. 450. The dog howls

immediately.

Mozart stops.

Amazed, Mozart starts to play the Rondo again. The dog howls

louder.

Mozart plays on. Suddenly the dog falls silent. Schlumberg

smiles broadly.

The wife scurries to get a jar of biscuits. A servant brings

in an open bottle of wine and a full glass on a tray. He

puts it down beside Mozart as Schlumberg addresses the silent

dog with deepest affection.

He gives the biscuit to the dog who swallows it greedily.

Mozart stops playing and stands up.

He bows to them and leaves the room. They look after him in

puzzled astonishment.

EXT. A BUSY STREET IN VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

A cheerful scene. We see Mozart strutting and beaming, making

his way through the crowd of porters, carriers and hawkers,

sellers of sausages and pastries, vendors of hats and ribbons.

Horses and carriage clatter past him. His mood is best

expressed by a bubbling version of Non piu Andrai played on

the forte-piano.

Still in the same mood, he enters the door of his own house.

INT. MOZART'S HOUSE - HALLWAY -  DAY - 1780'S

Suddenly, he stops. He looks up the stairs. The grim opening

chords from the Overture to Don Giovanni cut across the march

from Figaro. What he sees, looking up the stairs, is a

menacing figure in a long, grey cape and dark grey hat,

standing on the landing. The light comes from behind the

figure so that we see only its silhouette as it unfolds its

arms towards Mozart in an alarming gesture of possession.

It takes a beat in which the air of sinister mystery is held

before Mozart realizes who it is. Then, as the music

continues, he hastily sets down the bottle of wine and rushes

joyfully up the stairs and hurls himself into the figure's

arms.

Both men embrace. The music slowly fades.

INT. MOZART'S LIVING ROOM - DAY - 1780'S

A cramped, low-ceilinged little room which nobody has tidied

for ages. We see music lying everywhere. Also there are many

empty wine bottles; musical instruments - among them a

mandolin, a viola, a forte-piano with the black and white

keys reversed - books and abandoned plates of food.

Mozart clasps his father's arms. Leopold is now seen as an

aging, travel-stained man in clothes that need repair. His

face is lined, and he is obviously not in perfect health.

He kisses his hands.

Mozart ducks away and fetches his father's bags from the

landing.

Leopold looks about him at the mess in the room.

He carries the bag across the room and opens the door of the

bedroom. Constanze lies in bed. She sits up, startled.

Constanze, who looks ill and tired, stares at Leopold.

Leopold stares back from the doorway.

He closes the door again.

He picks up some pages of manuscript.

Constanze comes into the room. She is wearing a dressing

gown and has made a perfunctory attempt to tidy her hair.

We see that she is clearly pregnant.

He gives a little giggle of embarrassment.

The jaunty tune of Ich Mochte Wohl Der Kaiser sein (K.539)

sounds through all the following. This is an alternate song

from Il Seraglio: a very extroverted tune for baritone and

orchestra and a prominent part for bass drum. The vocal part

should be arranged for trumpet.

EXT. STREET IN VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart and Constanze with Leopold between them. We see couples

shopping.

INT. A COSTUME SHOP - VIENNA - DAY - 1780'S

This is a shop where one can buy costumes for masquerades.

It is filled with extravagant costumes of various kinds.

Wolfgang is wearing a costume, a mask pushed up on his

forehead; Constanze is wearing a little white velvet mask.

Amidst the merriment, Leopold is helped by two assistants to

put on a dark grey cloak and a dark grey tricorne hat, to

which is attached a full mask of dark grey. Its mouth is cut

into a fixed upward smile.

He turns and looks at his son through this mask.

INT. A LARGE PARTY ROOM - VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S

We are in the full whirl of a Masquerade Ball. Couples are

dancing around dressed in fantastic costumes. The music of

Ich Mochte Wohl Der Kaiser sein increases in volume and

persists. We see the musicians thumping it out on a balustrade

above the dancers. A steer is being roasted. Through the

bobbing crowd we see a group, headed by the figure of Bacchus:

this is Schikaneder in a Greek costume, wearing vine leaves

in his hair. He is accompanied by his usual trio of actresses

and three other men. Constanze as Columbine and Mozart as

Harlequin are pulling Leopold by the hand of his dark cloak

and smiling mask. This whole group threads its way across

the crowded room and disappears through a door. As they go,

they are watched by Salieri, standing alone in a corner,

wearing ordinary evening clothes. He turns away hastily to

avoid being seen by them.

As soon as they disappear into the far room, Salieri goes

quickly to a lady in the corner who is giving guests domino

masks off a tray. He quickly takes a small black mask and

puts it on.

INT. A GROTTO ROOM NEXT DOOR - NIGHT - 1780'S

A fantastic room designed as a rocky grotto, lit by candles.

A forte-piano to one side is being played by Schikaneder:

the music of Ich Mochte Wohl Der Kaiser sein cross-fades to

another tune.  This is Vivat Bacchus from Il Seraglio which

Schikaneder, dressed as Bacchus, is humming as he plays. The

music is actually accompanying a game of Forfeits, which has

begun. Five couples (the group we have just seen) are dancing

in the middle of a ring made by nine chairs. When the music

stops they will each have to find a chair, and the one who

fails must pay a forfeit.

Constanze is dancing with Leopold; Mozart is dancing with

one of the actresses; the two other actresses are dancing

with two other gentlemen; and two children dance together -

a little boy and a little girl. The scene is watched by a

circle of bystanders; among them - from the doorway - is

Salieri.

Schikaneder stops playing. Immediately the couples scramble

for the chairs. Leopold and Constanze meet on the same chair,

bumping and pushing at each other to get sole possession of

it. To the amusement of the people around, the chair over-

balances and they both end up on the floor. Constanze

immediately gets up again, sets the chair on its feet, and

tries to pretend she was sitting in it all the time. But

Schikaneder calls out from the forte-piano.

People are delighted by the idea of this penalty. The children

jump up and down with excitement. The three actresses

immediately surround Leopold, reaching for his hat and mask

and wig, whilst he tries to hold on to them. Mozart takes

off Constanze's wig - an absurd affair with side-curls.

Constanze laughingly surrenders it.

Despite his protests an actress takes off his hat, to which

the smiling mask is attached, to reveal his outraged face

showing a very different expression underneath. Another

actress snatches off his wig to reveal very sparse hair on

the old man's head. The third actress takes Constanze's wig

from Mozart and attempts to put it on his father's head.

Constanze echoes him with a touch of malice in her voice.

Laughingly, the bystanders take it up, especially the

children.

As Leopold glares furiously about him, the actress succeeds

in getting Constanze's wig firmly onto his head. Everybody

bursts into applause. Delightedly, Constanze puts on Leopold's

wig, hat and mask: from the waist up she now looks like a

weird parody of Leopold in the smiling grey mask, and he

looks like a weird parody of her in the silly feminine wig.

Schikaneder starts to play again, and the couples start to

dance. Leopold angrily takes off Constanze's wig and leaves

the circle; his partner, Constanze, is left alone. Seeing

this, Mozart leaves his partner and catches his father

entreatingly by the arm.

He takes off his own wig and puts it on Leopold's uncovered

head. The effect, if not as ridiculous, is still somewhat

bizarre, since Wolfgang favours fairly elaborate wigs. He

takes Constanze's wig from his father. As this happens, the

music stops again. Mozart gently pushes his father down onto

a nearby chair; the others scramble for the other chairs;

and he is left as the Odd Man Out. He giggles. Schikaneder

calls out to Leopold from the keyboard.

Applause.

All the bystanders are watching.

Mozart runs over to the forte-piano, and Schikaneder

surrenders his place at it.

Applause.

Amused sounds of disbelief.

Renewed applause at this wicked extra penalty. Mozart smiles

at Schikaneder - it is the sort of challenge he loves. He

defiantly puts on Constanze's wig and seats himself with his

back to the keyboard. Before the astonished eyes of the

company he proceeds to execute this absurdly difficult task.

His right hand plays the bass part, his left hand the treble,

and with this added difficulty he improvises a brilliant

fugue on the subject of the tune to which they have been

dancing.

Attracted by this astonishing feat, the players draw nearer

to the instrument. So does Salieri, cautiously, with some of

the bystanders. Constanze watches him approach. Only Leopold

sits by himself, sulking.

The fugue ends amidst terrific clapping. The guests call out

to Mozart.

SMASH CUT: Salieri's masked face whips around and looks at

her.

Giggling, he turns around and sits at the keyboard. Then,

watched by a highly amused group, he begins a wicked parody.

He furrows his brow in mock concentration and closes his

eyes. Then he begins to play the tune to which they danced,

in the most obvious way imaginable, relying heavily on a

totally and offensively unimaginative bass of tonic and

dominant, endlessly repeated. The music is the very essence

of banality. The bystanders rock with laughter. Mozart starts

to giggle wildly. Through this excruciating scene, Salieri

stares at Constanze, who suddenly turns her head and looks

challengingly back at him.

Mozart's parody reaches its coarse climax with him adding a

fart noise instead of notes to end cadences. He builds this

up, urged on in his clowning by everyone else, until suddenly

he stops and cries out. The laughter cuts off. Mozart stands

up, clutching his behind as if he has made a mess in his

breeches. The momentary hush of alarm is followed by a howl

of laughter.

CU, Salieri staring in pain.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

CU, The old man is shaking at the very recollection of his

humiliation.

INT. GROTTO - NIGHT - 1780'S

A repetition of the shot of Mozart at the forte-piano, wearing

Constanze's wig and emitting a shrill giggle.

INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

Salieri sits at his desk. He holds in his hand the small

black party mask and stares in hatred at the place on the

wall where the crucifix used to hang. Faintly we see the

mark of the cross.

INT. MOZART'S WORKROOM - DAY - 1780'S

It is littered with manuscripts. In the middle stands a

billiard table. The beautiful closing ensemble from Act IV

of Figaro: Ah, Tutti contenti! Saremo cosi plays in the

background. Standing at the billiard table, Mozart is dreamily

hearing the music and playing shots on the table.

From time to time he drifts over to a piece of manuscript

paper and jots down notes. He is very much in his own world

of composition and the billiard balls are an aid to creation.

Presently, however, we hear a knocking at the door.

The music breaks off.

He opens the door.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM -  DAY - 1780'S

Mozart comes out. Framed in the doorway from outside stands

Lorl, the maid we noticed in Salieri's house. From his bedroom

Leopold peeps out to watch. Mozart goes to the girl. Constanze

follows.

Mozart turns to his father.

The old man emerges from his bedroom. His son looks at him

delightedly.

Constanze looks furiously at him, then at Lorl.

Lorl goes outside and closes the door. Constanze turns on

Leopold.

Explosively she opens the door.

She leads the maid into Leopold's room. Mozart steals back

into his workroom and gently closes the door. Leopold is

left alone.

INT. MOZART'S WORKROOM - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart stands trying to blot out the noise of his father's

shouting from the next room.

The ensemble of Ah, Tutti contenti! Saremo cosi from Act IV

of Figaro resumes, coming to his aid and rising to greet the

listener with its serene harmonies. Relieved, Mozart languidly

picks up his cue and plays a shot on the billiard table: he

is sucked back into his own world of sound.

INT. SALIERI'S SALON - NIGHT - 1780'S

The music fades. We see Lorl, dressed in a walking cloak,

sitting before a desk, talking to someone confidentially.

A hand comes into frame offering a plate of sugared biscuits.

On its finger we see the gold signet ring belonging to

Salieri.

Confused, the girl hesitates. He hands her a pile of coins.

She accepts them, delighted.

EXT. MOZART'S HOUSE - VIENNA STREET - AFTERNOON - 1780'S

The final movement of Mozart's Piano Concerto in E-flat (K.

482) begins. To its lively music, the door of the house bursts

open and a grand forte-piano augmented with a pedal is carried

out of it by six men, who run off with it down the street.

Following them immediately appear Wolfgang, Constanze and

Leopold, all three dressed for an occasion. They climb into

a waiting carriage which drives off after the forte-piano.

As soon as it goes, Lorl appears in the doorway, peering

slyly around to see that they are out of sight. Then she

shuts the door and hurries off in the opposite direction.

EXT. AN ORNAMENTAL GARDEN - VIENNA - AFTERNOON - 1780'S

An outdoor concert is being given. Mozart is actually playing

the final movement of his E-flat concerto with an orchestra.

Listening to him is a sizable audience, including the Emperor,

flanked by Strack and Von Swieten.

The crowd is in a happy and appreciative mood: it is a

delightful open-air scene. We hear the gayest and most complex

passage. Leopold and Constanze listen to Mozart, who plays

his own work brilliantly. We stay with this scene for a little

while and then

EXT. VIENNA STREET - AFTERNOON - 1780'S

A carriage clopping through the streets. Lorl is sitting up

on the box beside the driver. Inside the vehicle, we glimpse

the figure of Salieri.

EXT. AN ORNAMENTAL GARDEN - VIENNA - 1780'S

We hear more of the concerto. Perhaps the slow interlude in

the last movement of K. 482. Mozart is conducting and playing

in a reflective mood. Abruptly we

EXT. MOZART' S APARTMENT - AFTERNOON - 1780'S

Lorl is opening the door admitting Salieri. They go in. The

door shuts.

INT. MOZART'S LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON - 1780'S

The room is considerably tidier as a result of Lorl's

ministrations. Salieri stands looking about him with

tremendous curiosity.

She opens a drawer in a sideboard. Inside we see one gold

snuff box: it is the one we saw Mozart being presented with

as a child in the Vatican.

Salieri turns to look around him.

She points across the room to the workroom. Salieri crosses

and goes in alone.

INT. MOZART'S WORKROOM - AFTERNOON - 1780'S

Salieri enters the private quarters of Amadeus. He is

immensely excited. He moves slowly into the 'holy of holies'

picking up objects with great reverence - a billiard ball; a

discarded wig; a sock; a buckle - then objects more important

to him. Standing at Mozart's desk, strewn with manuscripts,

he picks up Mozart's pen and strokes the feather. He touches

the inkstand. He lays a finger on the candlestick with its

half-expired candle. He touches each object as if it were

the memento of a beloved. He is in awe. Finally his eye falls

on the sheets of music themselves. Stealthily he picks them

up.

CU, The pages.

We see words set to music. Against each line of notes is the

name of a character: Contessa, Susanna, Cherubino. Then

another page - the title page - written in Mozart's hand.

Le Nozze di Figaro Comedia per musica tratta dal Francese in

quattro atti.

CU, The word Figaro.

CU, Salieri. He stares amazed.

EXT. ORNAMENTAL GARDEN - VIENNA - AFTERNOON - 1780'S

Mozart is playing the cadenza and coda of Piano Concerto (K.

482). He completes the work with a flourish. There is loud

applause. The Emperor rises and all follow suit. Mozart comes

down to be greeted by him.

He sees his wife and father standing by in the crowd. Leopold

is signaling insistently.

Leopold comes forward eagerly and fawningly kisses the royal

hand.

Constanze curtsies.

He searches his memory.

All the courtiers around are looking at him.

INT. ORSINI-ROSENBERG'S STUDY - DAY - 1780'S

The Director sits at his table with Salieri and Bonno.

He crosses himself, wide-eyed with alarm.

INT. CHAMBERLAIN VON STRACK'S STUDY - DAY - 1780'S

INT. THE EMPEROR'S STUDY - DAY - 1780'S

The Emperor stands in the middle of the room in close

conversation with Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg, Von Swieten,

and Bonno. Salieri is not present. A door opens and a lackey

announces:

They all turn. Mozart approaches, rather apprehensively, and

kisses Joseph's hand.

They all sit, save Mozart. The room suddenly looks like a

tribunal. Joseph is in a serious mood.

The others look at their king solemnly, all save Mozart.

Beat. All look at the Emperor.

A slight pause. Then Joseph nods.

Mozart falls on his knees.

He giggles.

INT. OPERA HOUSE - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart sits on stage at a harpsichord rehearsing the singers

taking the parts of Figaro and Susanna in the opening bars

of the first act of The Marriage of Figaro. We watch Figaro

measuring the space for his bed on the floor, singing and

Susanna looking on, trying on the Countess' hat.

INT. SALIERI'S SALON - DAY - 1780'S

Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno are sitting with Salieri.

INT. THE OPERA HOUSE - DAY - 1780'S

It is a full orchestral rehearsal. Mozart is conducting from

the harpsichord with his hands; he does not use a baton.

The singers are all in practice clothes, not costumes.

We are in the Act III and we hear the recitativo exchange

just before the march begins. Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno sit

watching chairs.

Suddenly the march starts. Peasants and friends start to

dance in and at the same moment, Orsini-Rosenberg gets up

and comes down to Mozart. He is accompanied by an anxious

Bonno.

He signals to the cast to break off.

The company disperses, curious. The musicians look at Orsini-

Rosenberg.

Mozart hands him the score from which he is conducting.

He rips out a page. Bonno watches in terror.

He rips out three more.

He goes on tearing the pages determinedly.

INT. SALIERI'S SALON - DAY - 1780'S

A servant opens the door to announce.

Mozart brushes past him straight towards Salieri, who rises

to greet him. The little man is near hysterics.

He grabs Salieri.

He kisses Salieri's hand.

Mozart giggles with relief and gratitude.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

INT. OPERA HOUSE - DAY - 1780'S

In the background the same recitativo before the March. The

Emperor steals in surreptitiously with Von Strack, his finger

to his lips. He motions everyone not to rise, and slips into

a chair behind Salieri, Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno.

The three conspirators look at each other wide-eyed.

The recitativo summons up the march, but instead there is

silence. Mozart lays down his baton. The musicians lay down

their instruments. The celebrants of Figaro's wedding come

in with a few pitiful dance steps, in procession, only to

come presently to a halt, lacking their music. The singers

try to go on singing, but they have no cues from their

conductor or from the accompaniment. Everyone on stage looks

lost, though they attempt to go on with the story for a while.

Consternation grows on the faces of the conspirators. Mozart

glances back at the group seated in the theatre.  Finally,

the Emperor speaks, in a whisper.

Mozart strains to hear what they are saying but cannot.

We do look at them. The spectacle on stage has now ground to

a complete halt.

Orsini-Rosenberg acknowledges his defeat.

Orsini-Rosenberg rises and goes down to where Mozart sits

anxiously with the musicians, watching his approach.

He looks back deliriously at Salieri, trying to indicate his

gratitude. Salieri acknowledges with a slight and subtle

nod.

Orsini-Rosenberg returns to his king.

The singers scatter offstage to begin the scene again.

CUT BACK TO Mozart at the forte-piano, raising his hands.

The musicians raise their bows. With a flourish the happy

composer begins a reprise of the scene which had been cut

out. The music of the march begins faintly; the celebrants

of Figaro's wedding start to enter as the Count and the

Countess sit in their chairs.

In the theatre we see increasing pleasure on the Emperor's

face, sullenness and defeat on the courtiers'. Then, suddenly,

without interruption, on a crescendo repeat of the march, we

INT.  OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

The theatre is brilliantly lit for the first public

performance of Figaro. Everybody is there: the Emperor, Von

Strack, Bonno Orsini-Rosenberg, Von Swieten, even Madame

Weber and her daughters in a box. The musicians all wear

imperial livery; the actors on stage are now in costume.

Mozart, conducting, wears his Order of the Golden Spur. The

company wheels in and around to the music of the restored

march, which reaches a triumphant climax.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

The descending scale of strings in the final ensemble (Ah,

Tutti contenti. Saremo cosi) fades in.

INT. OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

We see the tableau on stage with the Count kneeling to the

Countess. All are singing.

CU, Salieri in his box, tears on his cheeks. He watches the

ensemble and we listen to it for a long moment. Finally it

fades, but continues underneath the following:

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

INT. OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

The ensemble reaches its climax, and fades away to the very

quiet, slow chords immediately preceding the boisterous final

chord. Salieri becomes aware that some of the audience are

asleep and many mare are apathetic. In the near silence we

see the Emperor yawn behind his hand. Those nearby look at

him. Orsini-Rosenberg smiles.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

INT. SALIERI'S SALON - DAY - 1780'S

Mozart is pacing up and down. Salieri is listening

sympathetically.

He bows too, giggling.

INT. OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

A performance of Salieri's grand opera, Axur: King of Ormus.

Deafening applause from a crowded house. We see the reception

of the aria which we saw Cavalieri singing on the stage near

the start of the film. Cavalieri, in a mythological Persian

costume, is bowing to the rapturous throng; below her is

Salieri. We see the Emperor, Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg,

Bonno and Von Swieten, all applauding. We hear great cries

of 'Salieri! Salieri!' and 'Bravo!' and 'Brava!'

CU, Salieri looking at the crowd with immense pleasure.

Then suddenly at:

CU, Mozart standing in a box and clapping wildly. Behind

him, seated, are Schikaneder and the three girls we saw before

in Mozart's apartment.

CU, Salieri staring fixedly at Mozart, then Mozart still

clapping, apparently with tremendous enthusiasm.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

INT. OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

Salieri conducting the last scene from Axur: King of Ormus.

On stage we see a big scene of acclamation: the hero and

heroine of the opera accepting the crown amidst the rejoicing

of the people. The decor and costumes are mythological

Persian. The music is utterly conventional and totally

uninventive.

CU, Mozart watching this in his box, with Schikaneder and

the three actresses. He passes an open bottle of wine to

them. He is evidently a little drunk, but keeps a poker face.

The act comes to an end. Great applause in which Mozart joins

in, standing and shouting 'Bravo! Bravo!' Then he leaves the

box with Schikaneder and the girls.

INT. CORRIDOR OF THE OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

Schikaneder laughs.

INT. STAGE OF THE OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

A crowd of people rings Salieri at a respectful distance.

The Emperor is holding out the Civilian Medal and Chain.

Salieri bows his head. Joseph places the chain around his

neck. The crowd claps. Salieri makes to kiss his hand, but

Joseph restrains him, and passes on. Cavalieri, smiling

adoringly, gives him a deep curtsey, and he raises her up.

The crowd all flock to Salieri with cries and words of

approval. All want to shake his hand. They tug and pat him.

But he has eyes for only one man - he looks about him,

searching for him and then finds him. Mozart stands there.

Eagerly Salieri moves to him.

Salieri smiles.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1780'S

Explosive laughter as Mozart and Schikaneder enter the

apartment, very pleased with themselves and accompanied by

the three actresses. The front door opens, very gingerly.

Mozart, still rather drunk, sticks his head into the room,

anxious not to make a noise. He sees the strangers and breaks

into a smile.

He opens the door wide to admit Schikaneder and the girls.

The first loud chord of the Statue scene from Don Giovanni

sounds. Mozart stares.

INT. AN OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

The second chord sounds. On stage we see the huge figure of

the Commendatore in robes and helmet, extending his arms and

pointing in accusation.

INT. AN OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

The second chord sounds.

On stage we see a huge nailed fist crash through the wall of

a painted dining room set. The giant armoured statue of the

COMMENDATORE enters pointing his finger in accusation at Don

Giovanni who sits at the supper table, staring - his servant

Leporello quaking with fear under the table.

The figure advances on the libertine. We see Mozart

conducting, pale and deeply involved. Music fades down a

little.

The music swells. We see Salieri standing alone in the back

of a box, unseen, in semi-darkness. We also see that the

theatre is only half full. Music fades down.

Music swells up again. We watch the scene on stage as the

Commendatore addresses Giovanni. Then back to Salieri in the

box. Music down again.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

INT. AN OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT - 1780'S

Music swells. On stage Don Giovanni is seized and gripped by

the Statue's icy hand. Flames burst from obviously artificial

rocks. Demons appear and drag the libertine down to Hell.

The scene ends.

CU, Salieri, staring wide-eyed.

EXT. SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - VIENNA - NIGHT - 1780'S

We see huge and attractive posters and billboards advertising

Schikaneder's troupe. The camera concentrates on the one

which reads as follows:

INT. SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT - 1780'S

Noise; smoke; the audience is sitting at tables for an evening

of vaudeville. Mozart, Constanze and their son Karl, now

about two years old, and sitting on his mother's lap, are

watching a parody scene by Schikaneder's troupe. They are

rowdy, bawdy and silly, incorporating motifs, situations and

tunes from Mozart's operas which we have seen and heard.

Before them on the table are bottles of wine and beer, plates

of sausages, etc.

THE PARODY

On stage we see a set which parodies the dining room in Don

Giovanni's palace, shown before.

Schikaneder as Don Giovanni is dancing with the three

actresses to the minuet from Don Giovanni (end of Act I),

played by a quartet of tipsy musicians. Leporello is handing

around wine on a tray.

Suddenly there is a tremendous knocking from outside. The

music slithers to a stop. All look at each other in panic.

Leporello drops his tray with a crash. All go quiet. One

more knock is heard. Then all musicians, actresses, Don

Giovanni and Leporello make a dash to hide under the table

which is far too small to accommodate them all. The table

rocks. Schikaneder is pushed out. He is terrified. He shakes

elaborately. Three more knocks are heard; louder.

One more knock.

In the pit a chromatic scale from the Overture to Don Giovanni

turns into a anticipatory vamp. This grows more and more

menacing until the whole flat representing the wall at the

back falls down.

An absurd pantomime horse gallops in. It has a ridiculous

expression, and is manned by four men inside. Standing

precariously on its back is a dwarf, wearing a miniature

version of the armour and helmet worn by the Commendatore.

He sings in a high, nasal voice:

He tries to keep his balance as he trots in, but fails. He

falls off onto the stage. He beats at the horse, trying to

get back on.

Bewildered, the horse looks about him, but cannot see his

small rider who is below his level of sight.

The horse, amidst laughter from the audience, fails to locate

him. Exasperated, the dwarf signals to someone in the wings.

A tall man strides out carrying a see-saw; on his shoulders

stands another man.

The dwarf stands on the lowered end of the see-saw. There is

a drum roll and the man above jumps down onto the raised end

and the Commendatore is abruptly catapulted back onto the

horse, only backwards so that he is facing away from Don

Giovanni. The two men bow to the applauding audience, and

retire off-stage.

The Commendatore tries to extend his arms in the proper

menacing attitude, and at the same time turn around to face

Don Giovanni. This he finds difficult.

The horse takes a bow. The dwarf almost falls off again.

The three girls rush to his aid and reach him just in time.

They sing in the manner of the Tree Ladies later to be put

into The Magic Flute.

They grab him.

He gives the ladies a radiant smile. The three ladies sing,

as before, in close harmony.

An orchestral chord. The three ladies turn to Ottavio and

sing to him.

Ottavio neighs loudly, and runs at the girls.

Boos from the audience.

A trapeze sails in from above. On it stands a grand soprano

wearing an elaborate Turkish costume, like a parody of

Cavalieri's in Il Seraglio. She comes in singing a mad

coloratura scale in the manner of Martern aller Arten.

He marches off stage.

The Commendatore pulls out his sword, reaches up and thrusts

her through with it. The soprano collapses on the bar of the

trapeze. The audience applauds. At the same moment eight

dwarves march in bearing a huge cauldron of steaming water.

They sing as they march to the sound of the march that was

cut from Act III of Figaro. They are dressed as miniature

copies of the chorus in that scene except that they are

wearing cooks' hats.

They set the giant pot down in the middle of the stage. The

trapeze with the dead soprano is still swinging above the

stage.

We hear the chromatic scale from the Don Giovanni overture

again, repeated and repeated, only now fast and tremolando.

To this exciting vamp Schikaneder suddenly rides in on a

real horse, waving a real sword. With this he cuts the string

of the trapeze, and the soprano falls into the pot. A

tremendous splash of water. Schikaneder rides out. More

applause.

All the dwarves produce long wooden cooking spoons and climb

up the sides of the pot. The three girls produce labeled

bottles from under their skirts. The first is SALT.

PEPPER

She sneezes.

AND SCHNAPPS

She hiccups.

They throw them into the pot.

Schikaneder marches in as Figaro.

CU,  Mozart laughing delightedly with the audience.

All the dwarves climb up the rim of the pot. As they climb,

they all hum together the opening of Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.

The soprano rises, dripping with water in the middle of the

pot.

All the dwarves beat her back down into the pot with their

long wooden spoons.

The table is raised in the air by Leporello sitting under it

on a bale of hay.

Ottavio the horse gives a piercing neigh and runs down to

the hay.

The vamp starts again vigorously. The horse's rear-end swings

around on a hinge to turn his hind-quarters straight on to

the audience. The rest of him stays sideways. His tail springs

up in the air to reveal a lace handkerchief modestly hiding

his arsehole.

Schikaneder offers him a handful of hay. The horse eats it,

and out the other end comes a long Viennese sausage. The

audience roars with laughter. Another handful of hay and out

of the other end falls a string of sausages. Then a large

pie, crust and all. Then a shower of iced cakes!

Suddenly - silence. Schikaneder produces an egg from his

pocket. Ottavio the horse rears up in disgust.

Leporello pries open the horse's mouth. Schikaneder pops the

egg into it. A breathless pause as a drum roll builds the

tension, up and up and up, and then suddenly out of the

horse's rear-end flies a single white dove.

Wild applause.

It flies into the audience. Immediately all the cast start

humming the lyrical finale from Figaro: Tutti Contenti.

More and more doves fly out from the wings and fill the

theatre. Everybody picks up the sausages and cakes and begins

to eat. The end of the sketch is unexpectedly lyrical and

magical, and then, suddenly, the tempo changes and the coarse

strains of Ich Mochte wohl Der Kaiser take over and the whole

company is dancing, frantically. A general dance as the

curtain falls.

It rises immediately. The audience - including Mozart - is

delighted. They applaud vigorously. Schikaneder takes a bow

amongst his troupe. Among much whistling and clapping, he

finally jumps off the stage and strides through the audience

toward the table where Mozart sits with his family. On stage,

a troupe of bag pipers immediately appears to play an old

German tune. Some of the audience joins in singing it.

Mozart is smiling; he has been amused. Constanze has been

less amused and is looking apprehensive.

Schikaneder sits at the table, and drinks from a bottle of

wine.

Mozart laughs.

He rises in haste for his next number.

He winks at Mozart and disappears toward the stage. Mozart

looks after him, enchanted.

He giggles like a child.

INT. SCHLUMBERG HOUSE - HALLWAY - DAY 1780'S

Dogs are barking wickedly. Michael Schlumberg comes in from

his salon. Mozart stands there looking very unwell and

bewildered. He is also drunk, but making a careful attempt

to keep his composure.

Pause.

CU, Mozart. His voice becomes mechanical.

INT. THE IMPERIAL LIBRARY - DAY - 1790'S

Von Swieten and Salieri stand close together. Several scholars

and students are examining scrolls and manuscripts at the

other end of the room.

The opening measures of the Piano Concerto in D Minor steal

in.

INT. THE COSTUME SHOP - VIENNA - DAY - 1790'S

This is exactly the same shop which Mozart and Constanze

visited with Leopold. Now Salieri's servant stands in it,

waiting. We see a few other customers being served by the

staff: renting masks, costumes, etc. One of the staff emerges

from the back of the shop carrying a large box, which he

hands to Salieri's servant. The servant leaves the shop.

Through the window we see him hurrying away through the snowy

street full of passers-by, carriages, etc.

INT. SALIERI'S APARTMENT - DUSK - 1790'S

The D Minor Concerto continues. Salieri, alone, eagerly opens

the box from the costume shop and takes out the same dark

cloak and hat that Leopold wore to the masquerade, only now

attached to the hat is a dark mask whose mouth is cut into a

frown, not a laugh. It presents a bitter and menacing

expression. He puts on the cloak, the hat and the mask and

turns his back. Suddenly we see the assembled and alarming

image reflected in a full-length mirror. The music swells

darkly.

EXT. A SNOWY STREET IN VIENNA - DUSK - 1790'S

As the tutti of the D Minor Concerto continues, we see

Salieri, dressed in this menacing costume, dark against the

snow, stalking through a street which is otherwise lively

with people going to various festivities. Some of them wear

frivolous carnival clothes.

INT. MOZART'S LIVING ROOM - DUSK - 1790'S

Mozart sits writing at a table. He appears now to be really

quite sick. His face expresses pain from his stomach cramps.

There is a gentle knock at the door. He rises, goes to he

door and opens it. Immediately there is a SHOCK CUT:

The dark, frowning mask stares at him and at us. The violent

D Minor chord which opens Don Giovanni is heard. Salieri in

costume stands in the doorway.

The second chord sounds and fades. Mozart stares in panic.

Salieri extends his hand. In it is a bag of money.

Almost against his will, Mozart takes the money.

He turns away. Mozart closes the front door. Instantly we

hear the opening of the Requiem Mass (also in D Minor).

Mozart turns and looks up at the portrait of his father on

the wall. The portrait stares back. Constanze opens the door

from the bedroom. She sees him staring up.

He looks at her with startled eyes. The music breaks off.

He gives a strange little giggle.

She sees the bag of money.

He stares at her. She stares at him.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - 1823

Old Salieri is now wildly animated, totally driven by his

confession to Vogler.

Vogler stares at him in horror.

He raises his own hands and stares at them. The raging Dies

Irae from Mozart's Requiem Mass bursts upon us.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

Mozart sits working frantically at this demonic music. His

whole expression is one of wildness and engulfing fever. He

pours wine down his throat, spilling it, and grimaces as it

hits his stomach. All around him are manuscripts.

There is a banging at the front door. Mozart does not hear

it; the music raves on. Another knocking comes, louder.

Constanze appears from the bedroom and stares at her

distracted husband. The knocking is repeated again, even

more violently and insistently.

He looks at her. The music breaks off. Silence. An enormous

bang at the door startles him.

Constanze moves to open it.

Mozart springs up. He is clearly terrified.

He runs out of he room, into his workroom, and shuts he door.

Now a little scared herself, Constanze goes to he front door

and opens it cautiously. Schikaneder stands there, floridly

dressed as usual. Lorl is seen peeking out from the kitchen.

He pushes her into the room.

He sees he manuscript on the table, and goes to it eagerly.

He picks up a page without waiting for a reply.

Mozart opens he workroom door. We see him as Schikaneder

sees him: wild-eyed, extremely pale and strange.

He giggles triumphantly. Schikaneder stares at him.

Mozart, with a bright, rather demented smile presents his

head to Schikaneder.

He giggles. Schikaneder suddenly grabs his lapels.

Schikaneder suddenly takes Mozart by the arms, and speaks to

him with intense appeal.

INT. SALIERI'S SALON - DAY - 1790'S

A frightened and tearful Lorl sits before Salieri.

The Overture to The Magic Flute begins grandly. To the music

of the slow introduction, we see:

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

The room, lit by a few candles, appears dirty. The camera

shows us again Leopold's portrait on the wall, looking down

upon a scene of disorder.

Papers litter the table; dirty dishes are piled in the

fireplace; on the forte-piano lies Mozart's Masonic apron,

woven with symbols. To the more lyrical passage of the

introduction, we see Mozart take up a candle and enter:

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

We watch him stand beside Constanze, who lies asleep. Mozart

now looks very ill; his wife appears worn out. Tenderly he

touches her hair. Then he moves to the cot where his son

Karl lies asleep and kneels, pulls up the child's little

blanket and for a moment lays his own head down beside the

boy's. Constanze opens her eyes and stares at him. Mozart

rises and returns to:

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

The Introduction ends and suddenly the brilliant fast fugue

begins. Instantly Mozart starts to dance to it, all alone:

gleefully, like a child. He looks up at his father's portrait,

and makes a silly, rude gesture at it. He is, briefly, an

irresponsible and happy boy again.

Then suddenly there is a gentle knocking at the door. The

music fades down. Warily, Mozart crosses and opens he door.

The familiar dark chords from Don Giovanni cut across the

happy music. It ends. Before him stands the masked stranger.

He turns and looks. Constanze has come into the living room.

Nervously, Mozart indicates her.

Salieri contemplates them both.

He turns and goes down the stairs. Mozart shuts the door; he

closes his eyes in fear.

He will not look at her or reply.

He looks at her suddenly.

Suddenly she starts to cry.

Her tears flow. Mozart looks at her helplessly.

She sits down tearfully, staring at him.

We hear the Rex Tremendai Majestatis from the Requiem and

see on the wall the portrait of Leopold Mozart looking down.

The camera pans slowly downward from it back to the table.

Mozart is writing the music. He looks up and sees that

Constanze is fast asleep in her chair. Mozart gets up quietly.

He puts on his hat and cloak, takes a bottle of wine and

tiptoes from the house. Without stopping, the music changes

from the heavy Requiem to the light-hearted patter of the

Papa-Papa duet from The Magic Flute.

INT. SCHIKANEDER'S SUMMER HOUSE - NIGHT - 1790'S

This little wooden structure stands in a courtyard in the

tenement by the Weiden. Inside, we see a table, chairs, a

forte-piano, bottles and a chaos of papers. Strewn about in

the chairs are the three actresses, giggling. Schikaneder

and Mozart, both drunk, are singing the duet of the two bird-

people. The actor sings Papageno and the composer, in a

soprano voice, sings Papagena at the keyboard. Absurdly,

they end up rubbing noses and fall on each other's necks.

EXT. VIENNA STREET - NIGHT - 1790'S

Mozart, drunk and happy, staggers back through the snow.

There are a few people about. He goes into his apartment

building.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - DAY - 1790'S

He comes through he door and stares across the living room

at an open bedroom door. Puzzled, he crosses.

The bedroom is also empty. We see Constanze's empty bed;

Karl's empty bed; empty closets.

He looks about him, puzzled.

INT. FRAU WEBER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY - 1790'S

Frau Weber sits grimly talking. Mozart sits also, completely

exhausted and passive under the rain of her constant speech.

And with a scream Madame Weber's voice turns into the shrill

packing coloratura of the second act aria of the Queen of

the Night, in The Magic Flute.

INT. SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT - 1790'S

On stage we see the QUEEN OF THE NIGHT fantastically costumed,

furiously urging her daughter to kill Sarastro. As she sings,

we see the interior of the theatre, now re-arranged from

when we last visited it to watch the Cabaret. An audience of

ordinary German citizens stands in the pit area, or sits:

they are rapt and excited.

The theatre also possesses boxes; some of these show closed

curtains - their inhabitants presumably engaged in private

intimacies. In one of them sits Salieri.

Thunder and lightning. She disappears amidst tremendous

applause from the audience.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE THEATRE - NIGHT - 1790'S

On the poster for The Magic Flute, the name Emmanuel

Schikaneder should appear very, very large and the name of

Mozart quite small:

The music is by Herr Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Herr Mozart

out of respect for a gracious and honourable Public, and

from friendship for the author of this piece, will today

direct the orchestra in person.

The book of the opera, furnished with two copperplates, of

which is engraved Herr Schikaneder in the costume he wears

for the role of Papageno, may be had at the box office for

30 kr.

Prices of admission are as usual To begin at 7 o'clock

INT. STAGE, AUDITORIUM AND WINGS OF SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE -

NIGHT -1790'S

We CUT TO the scene immediately before Papageno's song, Ein

Madchen oder Weibchen. Papageno, played by Schikaneder,

dressed in his costume of feathers, is trying to get through

a mysterious door. A voice calls from within.

Papageno recoils.

Papageno recoils.

He weeps extravagantly.

In the pit, Mozart indicates to the first violinist to take

over as conductor. He slips from his place and goes stealthily

backstage. We follow him. Over the scene we hear Papageno

being addressed by the First Priest in stern tones.

Laughter. An enormous goblet of wine appears out of the earth.

We follow Mozart into the wings. Actors and actresses stand

around in fantastic costumes. We see a flying chariot and

parts of a huge snake lying about. Also the scenery door of

a temple with the word 'Wisdom' inscribed on the pediment.

Mozart walks to where there stands a keyboard glockenspiel

with several manuals, and a musician waiting to play it.

Silently Mozart indicates that he wishes to play the

instrument himself.

On stage Schikaneder is being addressed haughtily by the

First Priest.

Laughter from the audience.

He stares at the audience and winks at them. They laugh.

Now Papageno's aria (Ein Madchen oder Weibchen) begins. It

is interpolated, as he pretends to play his magic bells,

with the glockenspiel actually being played off-stage by

Mozart. Schikaneder looks into the pit and does not see Mozart

conducting. He looks into the wings and realizes the situation

with amusement. He sings joyfully and the audience watches

entranced.

At certain moments we see the stage from Salieri's point of

view: Schikaneder singing, then pretending to play; and then

we see Mozart playing the glockenspiel with great flourishes

in the wings. Then, suddenly, the actor mimes playing, and

no sound comes. He mimes again, but still nothing comes. He

looks offstage in anxiety; there is evidently some commotion.

People are looking down on the floor. The song comes to a

near-halt. Schikaneder stares. Then the comedian signals to

the deputy conductor to pick up the song and finish it. At

this moment Salieri gets up and hastily leaves his box.

INT. WINGS OF SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT - 1790'S

We see the actress playing Papagena, wearing an old tattered

cloak and about to tie a little painted cloth representing a

hideous old woman over her face. She is looking worriedly

down at Mozart, who is lying unconscious on the floor.

A few people around him are trying to revive him. One has

put a wet handkerchief around his temples. Another is holding

a small bottle of smelling salts. There are voices saying,

'Doctor! Take him to a dressing room. Someone call a carriage.

Take him home.' Etc. Papagena is urged to go on stage by a

distracted stage manager. Suddenly we hear the voice of

Salieri.

He steps forward.

The actors step back respectfully. He stoops and picks up

the frail composer in his arms. Mozart is quite limp and

Salieri has to fling his arms around his own neck. All this

is watched nervously by Schikaneder on stage whilst performing

his scene with Papagena as an ugly old woman.

Audience laughter. The actress raises the little painted

cloth with the ugly old face on it to show her own pretty

young one to the audience. More laughter.

Laughter.

Laughter.

EXT. SCHIKANEDER'S THEATRE - NIGHT - 1790'S

A waiting sedan chair. Mozart has recovered consciousness,

but looks exceedingly ill. Salieri has set him down in the

winter's night. Snow is falling.

He starts to collapse again. Salieri helps him into the sedan.

The door is shut. The chair sets off and Salieri strides

beside it, through the mean street. A lantern with a candle

swings from the chair.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

The door opens. Salieri enters carrying the lantern from the

sedan chair. He is followed by Mozart, carried in the arms

of one of the porters. The room is now really in complete

disarray. The table is piled high with music: the pages of

the Requiem lie amongst many empty wine bottles. The porter

carries Mozart into

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

This room is miserably neglected. The bed is unmade, clothes

lie about on the floor. A sock has been stuck into the broken

pane of one window.

The porter lays Mozart down on the bed as Salieri lights

candles from the lantern to reveal plates of half-eaten food

and other signs left by a man whose wife has departed. It is

obviously very cold. Another very small bed nearby belongs

to the child, Karl.

The porter leaves the room. Mozart stirs.

He opens his eyes and sees Salieri staring down at him. He

smiles.

He helps him to sit up and takes off his coat and his shoes

and puts a coverlet around him.

He struggles to loosen his cravat. Salieri does it for him.

There is a violent knocking at the front door. Mozart starts

and looks around wildly.

The knocking increases in loudness, terrifying Mozart.

Salieri moves to the door.

Salieri leaves the room.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

Salieri goes to the front door and opens it to reveal

Schikaneder, who has obviously come straight from the theatre.

He still wears his bird make-up and under his street cloak,

his feathered costume is clearly seen. He has with him the

three actresses, also looking anxious and also in make-up as

the three attendants in The Magic Flute.

Schikaneder produces a bag of money.

They bob and curtsey. Schikaneder stares at Salieri, uneasily,

vaguely suspicious. Salieri smiles back at him and shuts the

door. He stays for a moment, thinking. He contemplates the

money.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

Mozart is sitting up in bed, staring at the door. It opens.

Salieri returns. He holds in his hand the bag of money.

Salieri pours the coins out of the bag onto the coverlet.

Mozart looks at the coins astonished.

INT. A SMALL DANCE HALL - BADEN - NIGHT - 1790'S

Trivial dance music is playing. Constanze is doing a waltz

with a young OFFICER in military uniform. At the moment we

see her, she stops abruptly, as if in panic.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

Mozart is sitting up in bed, propped against pillows. The

coins lie on the coverlet; many candles burn in the necks of

bottles. Salieri, without coat or wig, is seated at an

improvised worktable. On it are blank sheets of music paper,

quills, and ink. Also the score of the Requiem Mass as so

far composed. Mozart is bright-eyed with a kind of fever.

Salieri is also possessed with an obviously feverish desire

to put down the notes as quickly as Mozart can dictate them.

He takes his pen.

Salieri writes the key signature.

Salieri writes this, and continues now to write as swiftly

and urgently as he can, at Mozart's dictation. He is obviously

highly expert at doing this and hardly hesitates. His speed,

however, can never be too fast for Mozart's impatient mind.

Salieri sings back the first six measures of the bass line.

After the first two measures a chorus of basses fades in on

the soundtrack and engulfs his voice. They stop.

His voice is lost on the last words, as tenors engulf it and

take over the soundtrack, singing their whole line from the

beginning, right to the end of the sixth measure where the

basses stopped, but he goes on mouthing the sounds with them.

Salieri writes feverishly. We see his pen jotting down the

notes as quickly as possible: the ink flicks onto the page.

The music stops again.

Mozart glares at him, irritated. His hands move impatiently.

Salieri scribbles frantically.

He again hums the bass vocal line from the beginning,

conducting. On the soundtrack, we hear the second bassoon

and bass trombone play it with him and the first bassoon and

tenor trombone come in on top, playing the tenor vocal line.

We also hear the trumpets and timpani. The sound is bare and

grim. It stops at the end of the sixth measure. Salieri stops

writing.

He sings the urgent first measure of the ostinato.

He sings the second measure of the ostinato.

Salieri sings the first two measures of the string ostinato.

As Salieri writes, Mozart sings the ostinato from the

beginning, but the unaccompanied strings overwhelm his voice

on the soundtrack, playing the first six bars of their

agitated accompaniment. They stop.

He is now sitting bolt upright, hushed and inspired.

He writes feverishly.

He sings the violin figure under the Voca Me (Bars 7,8,9).

He sings the ostinato phrase twice.

The entire Confutatis bursts over the room, as Mozart snatches

the manuscript pages from Salieri and reads from it, singing.

Salieri sits looking on in wondering astonishment. The music

continues right through the following scenes, to the end of

the movement.

EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - WINTER NIGHT - 1790'S

A carriage is driving fast through the night. Snow lies on

the countryside.

INT. THE CARRIAGE  NIGHT - 1790'S

The carriage is filled with passengers. Among them Constanze

and Karl, her young son. They are sleepless and sway to the

motion of the vehicle.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

Mozart lying in bed exhausted, but still dictating urgently.

We do not hear what he is saying to Salieri, who still sits

writing assiduously. Mozart is looking very sick: sweat is

pouring from his forehead.

EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - WINTER NIGHT - 1790'S

The carriage, moving through the night, to the sound of the

music.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

Mozart still dictating; Salieri still writing without stop.

EXT. VIENNA STREET - DAWN - 1790'S.

The carriage has arrived. Constanze and her son alight with

other passengers. Postillions attend to the horses. She takes

her boy's hand. It is a cold wintry dawn.

The music stutters to a close. End of the Confutatis.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1790'S

Mozart closes his eyes. Salieri stares at him.

EXT. VIENNA STREET - WINTRY DAWN - 1790'S

Constanze and Karl approach along the cobbled street, hand

in hand toward their house. Snow lies in the street.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAWN - 1790'S

Mozart lies asleep in the bed, holding the last pages of the

manuscript. Salieri lies across from him on Karl's small bed

in his shirt sleeves and waistcoat. The child's bed is

obviously too small for him and he is forced in to a cramped

position.

EXT. MOZART'S APARTMENT HOUSE - DAWN - 1790'S

Constanze and Karl arrive at the door. They enter.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAWN - 1790'S

It is as disordered as before, save that the table, previously

littered with pages, is now completely bare. Constanze looks

at it with surprise and enters the bedroom.

INT. MOZART'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAWN - 1790'S

Mozart is asleep in the bed. Salieri is dozing on the nearby

child's bed. The room is full of the trailing smoke from

guttering and guttered candles. Startled by Constanze's

entrance and her young son, Salieri scrambles up. As he does

so, he attempts to button his waistcoat, but does it ineptly,

so that the vestment becomes bunched up, making him look

absurd.

She notices a movement from the bed. Mozart wakes. He sees

Constanze and smiles with real joy. Forgetting Salieri, she

goes to her husband.

She throws herself on the bed.

She hugs her husband desperately. He stares at her with

obvious relief, not able to speak. Suddenly she sees the

manuscript in his hand.

She looks at it and recognizes it.

She takes it from his weak hand. At the same moment Salieri

reaches out his hand to take it and add it to the pile on

the table.

She stares at him, trying to understand - suspicious and

frightened and at the same time unable to make a sound. Mozart

makes a convulsive gesture to reclaim the pages. The coins

brought by Salieri fall on the floor.  Karl runs after them,

laughing.

She extends her hand for the Requiem, as she stands up.

Salieri hesitates.

With extreme reluctance - it costs him agony to do it -

Salieri hands over the score of the Requiem to her.

She marches with the manuscript over to a large chest in the

room, opens it, throws the manuscript inside, shuts the lid,

locks it and pockets the key. Involuntarily Salieri stretches

out his arms for the lost manuscript.

She turns and faces him.

He stares at her, stunned.

They look at each other in mutual hatred. She turns to the

bed. Mozart appears to have gone to sleep again.

She moves to the bed. The child is playing with the coins on

the floor. Faintly we hear the start of the Lacrimosa from

the Requiem. Salieri watches as she touches her husband's

hand. As the music grows, we realize that Mozart is dead.

CU, Constanze staring wide-eyed in dawning apprehension.

CU, Salieri also comprehending hat he has been cheated.

The music rises.

CU, The child on the floor, playing with the money.

EXT. STEPHEN'S CATHEDRAL - VIENNA - A RAINY DAY - 1790'S

The Lacrimosa continues through all of the following: a small

group of people emerges from the side door into the raw, wet

day, accompanying a cheap wooden coffin. The coffin is borne

by a gravedigger and Schikaneder in mourning clothes. They

load it onto a cart, drawn by a poor black horse. All the

rest are in black, also: Salieri, Von Swieten, Constanze and

her son, Karl, Madame Weber and her youngest daughter Sophie,

and even Lorl, the maid. It is drizzling. The cart sets off.

The group follows.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CITY WALLS OF VIENNA - RAINY DAY - 1790'S

The group has already passed beyond the city limits following

the miserable cart. The Lacrimosa accompanies them with its

measured thread.

The drizzle of rain has now become heavy. One by one, the

group breaks up and shelters under the trees. The cart moves

on toward the cemetery, alone, followed by nobody, growing

more and more distant. They watch it go.

Salieri and Von Swieten shake hands mournfully, the water

soaking their black tall hats. Schikaneder is in tears.

Constanze is near collapse. Salieri moves to assist her, but

she turns away from him, seeking the arm of Cavalieri. Madame

Weber takes Karl's hand.

The music builds to its climax on Dona Eis Pacem! We CUT

back to:

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING - 1823

Morning light fills the room. Old Salieri sits weeping

convulsively, as the music stops. Tears stream down his face.

Vogler watches him, amazed.

EXT. CEMETERY OF ST. MARX - LATE AFTERNOON - 1790'S

The rain has eased off. A LOCAL PRIEST with two boy acolytes

is standing beside an open communal grave. Mozart's body is

lifted out of the cheap pine box in a sack.

We see that the grave contains twenty other such sacks. The

gravedigger throws the one containing Mozart amongst the

others. An assistant pours quicklime over the whole pile of

them. The acolytes swing their censers.

INT. OLD SALIERI'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING - 1823

He tears off the Civilian Medal and Chain with which the

Emperor invested him and has been wearing the whole time and

throws it across the room.

The door opens. An attendant comes in, cheerful and hearty.

Salieri ignores him and stares only at the priest, who stares

back.

He signs to the attendant, who wheels him in his chair out

of the room. The priest stares after him.

INT. CORRIDOR OF THE HOSPITAL - MORNING

The corridor is filled with patients in white linen smocks,

all taking their morning exercise walk in the care of nurses

and nuns. They form a long, wretched, strange procession -

some of them are clearly very disturbed. As Old Salieri is

pushed through them in his wheelchair, he lifts his hands to

them in benediction.

Finally, he turns full-face to the camera and blesses us the

audience, making the Sign of the Cross. Underneath we hear,

stealing in and growing louder, the tremendous Masonic Funeral

Music of Mozart.

On the last four chords, we

