SCENE 1 - INT. APARTMENT - DAY

The hallway is a mess. A window opening onto a light well is

open.

The door to the apartment is suddenly broken open. A plain-

clothes detective, two uniformed police officers and several

firemen - also in uniform - enter and look around. They all

wear gloves and masks that cover their mouths and noses.

Behind them, the superintendent and his wife also push their

way in. They're both holding their noses. In his free hand,

the superintendent holds a pile of mail and promotional

flyers. Behind him, comes a female neighbor.

He signals to a police officer who herds the curious

onlookers back out through the door.

The plain-clothes detective has tried in vain to open the

door on the left. It has been sealed up with adhesive tape.

While the firemen go to work on the door, the plain-clothes

detective goes into the adjoining dining room. He opens the

windows quickly and turns to go into the room to the left via

the double doors. They are locked and the gaps are also taped

up. He turns to the right and goes into the living room,

where he also opens up the windows...

...and comes back into the hallway, passing by the waiting

firemen. Once again, we hear snatches of dialogue between the

police officer and the janitor.

The plain-clothes detective enters the bedroom which is now

accessible. Its windows are open and the draft makes the

curtains billow into the room.

The firemen shake their heads.

The PLAIN-CLOTHES DETECTIVE turns toward the big double bed

placed against the back wall of the bedroom. On the right-

hand bed, there's only the bare mattress. On the left-hand

bed lies the partly decomposed body of an old woman. Where

once there were eyes, now there are only gaping holes. The

corpse has been neatly dressed and is adorned with flowers

that have already dried out a little. On her chest is a

crucifix.

SCENE 2 - White letters on a black background: THE CREDITS

SCENE 3 - INT. CONCERT HALL - NIGHT

All we see is the audience pouring into the hall. GEORGES and

ANNE, both are around eighty, are part of this crowd. They go

to their seats in one of the rows near the front. Once

everybody is seated, we hear the usual ANNOUNCEMENT asking

people to turn off their mobile phones. Some people, caught

with their phones switched on, hasten to comply. Then the

lights go out. APPLAUSE.

Off-screen, we hear the soloist make his entrance. THROATS

ARE CLEARED here and there. Finally, the MUSIC begins.

SCENE 4 - INT. ARTISTS DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

The music from Scene 3 continues. The soloist is surrounded

by admirers who congratulate him.

Now Georges and Anne push their way into the room. (If the

soloist is female, they will be carrying flowers, like most

of the others).

When the soloist notices their presence, he leaves his group

of fans, heads towards them and greets them very warmly,

visibly glad to see them.

SCENE 5 - INT. BUS - NIGHT

Continuation of the MUSIC from Scene 3.

Georges and Anne are seated side by side in the half empty

bus. Anne talks enthusiastically, Georges says something from

time to time, and smiles now and then. They are both relaxed

and happy.

SCENE 6 - INT. APARTMENT - HALLWAY - NIGHT

The door to the apartment is unlocked and opened from the

outside. THE MUSIC ENDS.

Georges comes in, turns on the light. He and Anne observe the

open door. Around the lock, one can see the traces of an

attempted forced entry.

Georges bends down and runs his fingers over the deep

grooves.

After having examined the outside of the second leaf of the

double door, he comes in, closing the door behind him.

He unbuttons his overcoat and heads toward the large closet

in the hallway.

She goes toward him, he takes her coat off and hangs it with

his in the closet.

He undoes his shoes.

He puts away his shoes with the others and slips on his

slippers. Anne has gone into the bathroom.

He goes toward the kitchen.

As he passes in front of the bathroom, he stops and appears

to be looking at Anne.

SHORT PAUSE. THEN:

With a gentle LAUGH, Georges disappears into the kitchen,

where he turns on the lights. We hear him FIDDLING AROUND,

apparently getting a glass and some wine. After a short

Short PAUSE.

SCENE 7 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Georges wakes up. He looks with amazement beside him, then

raises his eyes. Anne is sitting upright, her back against

the headboard.

After a while, the RINGING of a kitchen egg-timer leads us to

the next scene.

SCENE 8 - INT. KITCHEN - DAY

The egg timer in the kitchen RINGS.

Georges is seated in front of the window, at a table which is

half set for breakfast. He has mobile phone raised to his ear

and a phone book opened in front of him. Anne is getting up

from the table. She goes toward the stove, turns off the gas,

takes the egg out of the pan with a spoon and runs it under

cold water. Like Georges, she is still in her robe.

He hangs up.

She has sat down. Looks straight ahead. He cracks open his

egg, puts salt on it, eats.

He eats. Wants to put on more salt, but the saltcellar is

empty.

He looks up for an instant, as if he expected her to deal

with it. As she doesn't react, he realizes the

inappropriateness of such an expectation, gets up himself,

heads for the kitchen cupboards and fills the salt cellar.

He comes back to the table and sits down again.

She looks at him and doesn't answer.

He waves his hand in front of her eyes and laughs nervously.

She continues to look at him without reacting.

He waits, looks at her. No reaction. He stands up slightly,

leans over the table to sit beside her. Tries to make her

turn toward him.

He manages to get her torso to turn halfway toward him, but

her eyes look through him.

He takes her face in both hands and turns toward him.

She stares into the void. He drops his hands. Then sits

beside her, for quite awhile.

Finally he gets up, heads for the sink, turns on the tap,

wets a tea towel, wrings it out a little, comes back and

places it on Anne's face. Waits for a reaction that doesn't

come. Then he pulls up her hair in the nape of her neck and

applies the cloth there. Then sits down and looks at her

imploringly.

Once again they both remain seated. In the background, we

hear the GUSHING of the tap that in his panic he has

forgotten to turn it off.

Making a sudden decision, he gets up, rapidly crossing the

hallway, he goes into the bedroom where he starts to dress

agitatedly, which takes him quite a lot of time. Suddenly,

the GUSHING of the tap stops, which had accompanied us as far

as the bedroom.

George doesn't notice it immediately, then he stops short.

Finally he returns, half dressed, into the kitchen.

Anne is seated in the same place and looks at him.

She turns toward the breakfast.

Georges stares at her.

She looks at him with amazement.

Georges comes from the door to the table.

Georges is about to answer in a similarly irritated tone,

but gradually begins to suspect that he could be mistaken. He

tries to calm down, takes his chair that has remained beside

Anne, sits down and looks at his wife. She doesn't know how

to react.

Georges first looks away reluctantly, then looks at Anne. He

doesn't want to believe that its serious.

He picks up the wet tea towel from the table.

Anne looks at the towel, then at Georges, and shakes her

head, perturbed that she can't understand. Georges looks at

her. He sees the damp marks on the collar of her robe.

Anne follows his gesture, tugs on her collar and sees the

damp marks. She slowly grasps that something is awry.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

Georges looks at her.

She takes her cup of tea, as if to show how well she is, and

drinks it up. When she wants to re-fill her cup, she

completely misses her aim. She notices it, puts down her cup

and bursts into tears.

SCENE 9 - INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

We see wide shots of the apartment. The hallway. The bedroom.

The living room. The dining room. The kitchen. Nobody in

sight.

SCENE 10 - INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

EVA, around 50, has come to pay a visit. Anne isn't there.

Brief PAUSE.

Brief PAUSE.

Georges gestures that it's too complicated.

He yawns.

He looks at his watch.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

Brief PAUSE.

She doesn't know what to say.

PAUSE.

SCENE 11 - INT. BEDROOM - DAY

A carpenter and his assistant are raising the base of the

double bed. Georges watches.

SCENE 12 - INT. HALLWAY - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The door of the apartment is opened. Georges comes in. Behind

him is Anne in a wheelchair, pushed by a paramedic. A second

paramedic (as young as the first) follows with a suitcase and

a large bag. Behind them, the superintendent.

Georges tries to rid of the three as quickly as possible. He

stuffs a twenty euro note into the hand of the first

paramedic.

The two paramedics exchange a brief glance, say thanks, and

leave the apartment, passing the superintendent as they go.

The superintendent hesitates another moment.

He leaves the apartment.

There is a brief moment of perplexity. Then Georges says:

Georges pushes her toward the living room door, walks around

the wheelchair, opens the door, comes back behind the

wheelchair and pushes Anne into the LIVING ROOM.

The doorway is narrow. The wheelchair only just passes

through it. Georges pushes Anne toward the sofa and the

armchairs and then steps in front of her.

George registers her smile; he knows he's behaving in a

clumsy way. He sits down in one of the two arm chairs.

Georges stands back up.

He extends his hands. She puts on the wheelchair brake, lifts

the footrest with her left foot, raises her right leg from

the footrest with her left hand and then extends her left arm

to Georges.

He does as he is told, pulls her up as they hobble together

the short distance to the second arm chair. Cautiously, he

lowers her down and helps her sit herself straight. Because

they are not used to it, the whole process appears awkward

and clumsy.

He smiles because it seems silly to him to answer "Don't

mention it". Then he sits down opposite her.

LONG PAUSE.

At first they are both ill at ease, but then they accept the

fact that words do not come easily. After a long while,

during which we hear the intermittent sound of the TRAFFIC

below.

Another PAUSE. Then Anne says:

PAUSE.

She looks at him. He has understood.

PAUSE.

Brief PAUSE.

PAUSE.

SCENE 13 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

He helps her into bed, then throws the blanket over her.

He hesitates.

He nods.

She smiles.

He goes out of the room to fetch the book. She remains lying

there, waiting, and runs her healthy left hand through her

hair to make herself look prettier, then smooths out the

blanket that has slipped out of place a little. After a

while, we hear Georges shouting.

She smiles, looks in his direction. He enters with the book

in his hand.

She puts the book on her stomach. Looks at Georges.

He looks at her for a moment longer, then leaves the bedroom.

She waits till he's outside. Tries to relax. Then she

remembers the book. She takes it in her left hand and tries

to open it. It's not easy for her.

Then she notices that she's forgotten her glasses. She rests

the book back on the bed cover and fishes for her glasses on

the night stand. In the end, she manages it. Then she opens

the book again, and tries to read.

SCENE 14 - INT. KITCHEN - DAY

The superintendent's wife puts the filled supermarket bags on

the counter. Takes the stack of mail that she had put on top

of one of the bags and puts it down beside them. Then she

takes out the receipt and the change.

Short embarrassed PAUSE.

She heads toward the front door of the apartment, turns

around again toward Georges.

He nods, she closes the door as she leaves.

SCENE 15 - INT. HALLWAY - TOILET - DAY

He stands in front of the closed door of the toilet, waiting.

After a while, we hear the noise of flushing. After a while

longer, we hear

He opens the toilet door, goes around Anne, pulls her up, she

puts her left arm around his neck, keeps herself upright that

way, he pulls up her pants under her skirt. Then they slowly

hobble out of the toilet and he sits her back down in the

wheelchair.

SCENE 16 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

They are both lying in their beds. Anne sleeps, BREATHING

NOISILY. Georges lies with his eyes open, listening

attentively to her breathing.

SCENE 17 - INT. KITCHEN - DAY

The sun shines in. Georges has cooked something simple. They

are both in a good mood, eating and drinking.

She looks at him, smiles, then turns back to her food.

She takes a mouthful, eats ponderously. Then she looks at

him.

She laughs.

SCENE 18 - INT. HALLWAY - DAY

He does physiotherapy exercises with her. Counts the

repetitive movements of the exercises.

SCENE 19 - INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

She's lying on the sofa. He's seated in the armchair. They're

both reading the newspaper. After a while:

PAUSE. Then

Brief PAUSE. Then:

She shoots him a glance, smiles at his irony. Then she says:

PAUSE.

Short PAUSE.

SCENE 20 - INT. HALLWAY - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The front door is unlocked from the outside, and Georges

enters. He's back from the funeral, dressed for the occasion.

He turns on the light. He's wet. Clearly, it's been raining.

As he closes the door again, his eyes fall on Anne. With her

back to him, she is sitting on the floor in front of the

opened window of the light well, half propped against her

wheelchair.

Shaken, he heads toward her, picks her up and seats her in

the wheelchair. Outside, in the light well, it is raining.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

Georges has understood immediately. He closes the window

noiselessly.

Then just stands there, at a loss.

SILENCE. Then

PAUSE.

He turns toward her, pushes the wheelchair into the living

room between the two armchairs. Turns on the light. Stops

beside the switch. They both look exhausted.

He thinks an instant, then goes and sits down facing her in

an armchair. Looks at her. She raises her head and returns

his look. He understands that he can't insist right now. Long

PAUSE. Then he begins:

PAUSE.

He looks at her. Finally he gets up and pushes her wheelchair

out of frame.

SCENE 21 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

She is lying in bed. The bedside lamp is on.

We hear the RADIO coming from the living room: a program

about the fauna and flora of the South Seas, or something

similar.

SCENE 22 - INT. HALLWAY - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Georges comes out of the kitchen and opens the front door. On

the doorstep stands the soloist (male or female) from Scenes

3 and 4.

He closes the door behind his guest.

While they pass into the living room, they continue to speak:

Sorry, these are for your wife.

He takes the bouquet of flowers from its wrapping paper and

hands it to Georges.

But Georges has already left the room with the bouquet and

closed the door behind him. The soloist looks around him.

After a few moments we hear the VOICES of Anne and Georges in

the distance, without understanding what they're saying. It

lasts a while.

Finally Georges opens the door and pushes Anne, in her

wheelchair, into the living room.

The (male or female) soloist has got up and doesn't quite

know how to handle the situation.

The soloist sits down hesitantly, Georges pushes the

wheelchair between the two armchairs and also sits down.

Brief embarrassed PAUSE.

They both smile. PAUSE. Then he goes on:

Brief PAUSE.

The soloist is a bit thrown by the couple's behavior.

(The dialogue concerning music will be modified according to

the performer chosen.)

He looks at Georges, then at Anne again, gets up, goes to the

grand piano and plays.

SCENE 23 - INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Georges is leaning against the chest, and watches Anne, who

is practicing maneuvering her new electric wheelchair.

Forward, backward, turning. In the end, she goes round and

round in circles several times. He laughs, so does she.

SCENE 24 - INT. BEDROOM - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Anne is lying in bed. A book rests on her stomach. She

listens to the PIANO playing coming from the living room.

After a while the music stops.

Georges is seated in front of the open piano. His hands in

his lap, he looks straight ahead.

SCENE 25 - INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

The superintendent's wife runs the vacuum cleaner over a

carpet.

SCENE 26 - INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Anne is seated on a stool. Georges washes her.

SCENE 27 - INT. KITCHEN - HALLWAY - BEDROOM - TWILIGHT

Georges has cooked himself a steak and is eating. On the

radio, we hear the EVENING NEWS. Suddenly, coming from the

neighboring room, a LOUD CRASH and the SOUND of crockery

breaking. Stifled CRY from Anne. Georges gets up, irritated,

crosses the HALLWAY and enters the BEDROOM.

Anne lies on the floor, beside the overturned night stand, in

the midst of the crockery and remains of a meal.

He hurries toward her and pulls her up rather roughly into

the bed.

He points to the broken objects.

Georges bends down, and begins to gather up the scattered

objects.

SCENE 28 - INT. BATHROOM - HALLWAY - ANNEX - DAY

Bathroom.

Georges, in pajama pants, naked torso, brushes his teeth. The

doorbell rings.

Georges spits out, wipes his mouth, goes into the hallway and

over to the front door.

No answer. Georges is very irritated. O.S., Anne calls to

Georges opens the door. Outside, however, instead of the

usual landing, we see an empty room lit a giorno but without

a window, about as large as the rooms in the apartment. It

looks like an unpainted room in a new apartment. A couple of

ladders are propped against the opposite wall. At the other

end of the room, to the side, is a small door. Georges is

stunned, and doesn't understand what has happened.

Hesitating, he crosses the room toward the door.

O.S., in the distance, Anne's worried voice:

Georges opens the small door. Behind it is a narrow,

windowless corridor, as brightly lit as the room. At the end

of the corridor, a door. Georges heads toward this door and

opens it too. Behind it is a tiny windowless room, equally

bright as the others. Everything is very quiet. Georges

enters, turns round, then goes back along the corridor,

crosses the room, comes through the apartment door into the

hallway of the apartment. But it too is now empty and bright,

with bare unpainted walls, no doors; only the door to the

bedroom is open. Behind that too, it appears to be empty and

bright. Georges goes toward it.

At the same time, we hear GEORGES' VOICE. At first he groans,

but then begins inarticulately hollering, louder and louder.

Shortly after, we also hear:

SCENE 29 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Darkness. GEORGES HOLLERS

She manages to switch on the bedside lamp. Georges is sitting

up in his bed, having just awoken, wide-eyed with terror. His

breathing is labored.

Anne extends her good hand toward him, caresses his back to

calm him. He slowly calms down and flops back on his pillow.

He doesn't answer. Continues breathing heavily. She caresses

him.

SCENE 30 - INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Close shot on the screen of a cell phone. We read on it:

Coming to Paris on 12th. Plan to stop by in afternoon. Hope

all well. So look forward to seeing you. Love Eva.

We hear O.S. the voice of

He crouches down in front of Anne who is seated on the bed,

puts his mobile phone back in his pocket and continues to put

on her socks and her shoes.

Short PAUSE.

PAUSE.

Georges doesn't agree, but continues to dress Anne.

SCENE 31 - INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Once more the set of physiotherapy exercises. Things are

going better. Georges smiles encouragingly at Anne, noticing

her improvement. She reacts like someone duty-bound, but

without conviction.

SCENE 32 - INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Close shot: a CD is inserted into a player. As the MUSIC

begins (the concert heard in Scene 3), Georges takes a card

out of the envelope that contained the CD and reads it to

The MUSIC makes their SILENCE less awkward. Then, after a

long while, Anne says:

He hesitates, looks at her, then stops the music. They remain

SILENT.

SCENE 33- INT. KITCHEN - ADJOINING ROOM - DAY

They eat. Suddenly, Anne says:

Anne nods.

Georges hesitates, and doesn't understand the suddenness of

this request.

He finally gets up and goes into the adjoining room. He comes

back after a few moments with a stack of albums, pushes away

the remains of Anne's meal and sets down the first album in

front of her.

With her able hand, Anne opens the album, looks at the

photos, turns the pages, looks.

Georges looks at her. She continues to thumb through the

pages. After a while she turns toward him.

SCENE 24 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

They are both lying in bed. Georges reads the day's news to

Anne from the newspaper. When he looks over to her, she has

fallen asleep. He then puts the newspaper on the night stand

and turns out the light.

SCENE 35 - INT. BEDROOM - HALLWAY - BATHROOM - DAY

Bedroom.

It's morning. Georges is helping Anne to get out of bed into

her wheelchair. As he does it, he notices that the bed and

her nightgown are wet.

Brief PAUSE.

He sits her back on the bed and goes out of the room.

During this time, she remains seated, feeling embarrassed,

and waits. He comes back with a towel and puts it on the seat

of the wheelchair.

He lifts her out of the bed into the wheelchair and pushes

her through the hallway into the bathroom.

He lifts her out of the wheelchair, sits her on the stool and

takes off her wet nightgown, pulling it over her head. She

starts to SOB inconsolably. He caresses her face.

He holds her tightly against him, strokes her hair, feeling

helpless.

SCENE 36 - INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Anne is in bed. She's on a drip. Eva is seated on a chair

beside the bed.

To put an end to the PAUSE that follows, she adds:

Another oppressive PAUSE.

PAUSE. Eva has tears in her eyes.

SCENE 37 - INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Georges and Eva's husband, GEOFF, around fifty. He speaks

with a British accent.

Geoff nods. Georges shrugs.

Eva comes in through the door. She's in floods of tears.

Geoff gets up, hesitantly.

He goes toward her and leads her to the armchair where he was

sitting.

She shakes him off, irritated, and sits down.

At first he's vexed by her brusque response, but then goes to

sit down on the sofa. Meanwhile, Eva turns to Georges:

Eva looks at him, amazed.

Geoff doesn't know what to say. Eva has composed herself

somewhat and blows her nose.

Eva gets up, furious, and goes to the window. Georges follows

her with his eyes.

SCENE 38 - INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Georges washes the tea cups that he used for Eva and Geoff.

On the radio, the EVENING NEWS.

SCENE 39 - INT. BEDROOM - DAY

With expert gestures, a nurse shows Georges how to lie Anne

down and put an incontinence pad on her. She's now almost

incapable of moving, and has to be turned over like an

object, as tears flow silently down her face.

SCENE 40 - INT. LIVING ROOM -DAY

Anne is at the piano and plays the piece from the Scene 3. We

watch her and listen to her for a while.

Georges is seated in his armchair and looks at the piano.

Finally he leans over toward the CD player and stops it. The

MUSIC suddenly stops. Georges remains silently seated.

SCENE 41 - INT. KITCHEN - HALLWAY - BEDROOM - DAY

He prepares a bowl of muesli, fills a sipping cup with water

and brings both into the bedroom. Sits down on the bed close

to Anne to feed her her food.

He begins to feed her.

She can only swallow slowly, and so something keeps running

back out of her mouth. He wipes it with a tea towel,

continues to feed her. Finally, after a few mouthfuls, she

keeps her mouth shut.

Anne continues to keep her lips sealed.

Anne doesn't move. He puts the muesli on the night stand and

holds the sipping cup to her lips. She drinks slowly, one sip

after the other. He pulls the cup back between each sip, to

give her more time. Suddenly she says:

Long PAUSE. Georges waits.

SCENE 42 - INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Georges and the nurse install Anne on a metal armchair in the

shower.

As she does so, the nurse keeps talking reassuringly to Anne.

Finally, she turns on the tap.

Without being phased, the nurse continues to speak

reassuringly. Georges remains standing there, helpless.

SCENE 43 - INT. KITCHEN - HALLWAY - BEDROOM - DAY

Kitchen.

Georges and the nurse are seated at the table with a cup of

coffee. In front of the nurse, on the table, is a sum of

money. As they speak, we hear, coming from the room, Anne's

CALLS FOR HELP.

She takes the money on the table, pockets it and gets up.

They both leave the kitchen. As the nurse, in the hallway,

takes her jacket off the hook in the closet and puts it on,

she comments on Anne's continuing CALLS FOR HELP.

They've reached the door.

He closes the door behind her. Remains motionless a moment,

then goes into the bedroom, where Anne's CALLS FOR HELP,

unaltered, continue.

Georges sits down beside Anne on the bed, takes her hand,

holds her. After a while, Anne calms down, her CALLS FOR HELP

become quieter and finally stop altogether.

After a long PAUSE:

Long PAUSE. Then:

SCENE 44 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

They are both lying in bed. Georges SNORES noisily. Anne's

eyes are open.

SCENE 45 - INT. HALLWAY - KITCHEN - DAY

The front door. We hear the key in the lock. Georges enters

with a shopping bag, and behind him is the superintendent. He

carries bigger and heavier bags. Georges holds the door open

for him.

The superintendent precedes him into the kitchen with the

bags. Georges calls toward the bedroom:

He then follows the superintendent into the kitchen.

The superintendent has put the bags on the work surface.

Georges has already taken out his wallet and gives some money

to the superintendent.

He gets ready to leave. He stops again in the doorway and

turns around.

As he speaks, Georges' mobile phone has started to ring.

As the superintendent leaves the apartment, Georges looks at

the display on his mobile phone and makes a call.

SCENE 46 - INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Georges, standing at the foot of the bed, faces Anne and

starts singing.

He encourages her to sing with him. Starts singing again:

Anne tries to sing too, she has a hint of a smile on her

face, but she produces only isolated SOUNDS.

SCENE 47 - INT. BEDROOM - DAY

A second nurse is doing Anne's hair roughly. The brush sticks

in her tangled hair.

She takes a mirror that she has placed within reach. Holds it

in front of Anne's face.

Anne, sickened, averts her eyes. Emits a muffled SOUND. The

nurse ignores it.

Furious SOUND from Anne.

SCENE 48 - INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The window opening onto the light well is open. A pigeon has

landed on the window ledge.

It walks to and fro, then finally dares to jump down inside,

onto the floor. It starts to explore the surroundings.

We hear the TOILET FLUSH. Georges comes out of the toilet.

The door opening frightens the pigeon. Alarmed, flapping its

wings, it flutters about the room.

After a moment of surprise, Georges tries to shoo it back

toward the window. But the bird escapes in the opposite

direction. George follows it.

He closes the doors of the other rooms. Coming from the

bedroom, we faintly hear ANNE'S VOICE.

Georges fetches a towel from the bathroom. He chases the

bird. He hits out at the bird for so long that it escapes

back out through the window. Georges, visibly exhausted, has

to sit down on the chest in the hallway.

SCENE 49 - INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Georges and the second nurse.

Georges takes his wallet from his jacket hanging on the

armchair and takes out eight one-hundred euro bills. The

nurse is hopping mad.

The nurse takes out her purse angrily, looks inside.

The nurse pockets the money.

Georges has put back his wallet, turns to her again and looks

at her.

She looks at him, at first doesn't know what to answer, then:

She leaves, slamming the door behind her. A few seconds

later, we hear the front door of the apartment fall shut.

Georges sits down in his armchair, looks straight ahead. Then

he lights a cigarette, his hands shake, he smokes.

SCENE 50 - INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

He tries to pour some tea into her mouth with the sipping

cup. She won't loosen her lips.

He sits upright.

Indecipherable SOUND from ANNE.

PAUSE. She looks at him. He bends over her again, presents

the cup in front of her sealed lips.

She doesn't react. He opens her lips with his fingers and

tries carefully, but using some force, to separate her teeth.

Pours a little tea in. The liquid runs out of her mouth.

He puts down the cup, takes a towel and wipes the liquid,

some of which has run down onto the pillow. He tries to mop

it up. She watches him the whole time. Finally he puts the

towel down beside the cup and looks at her. Tries not to show

his helplessness and his anger.

BRIEF PAUSE.

He takes the cup again and puts it against her lips.

Her lips remain sealed. He presses the cup hard against them.

It hurts her, so she opens her mouth and lets in a little

liquid.

She closes her mouth again and he puts down the cup.

Then she spits it all out like a fountain. After a moment of

bewilderment, he slaps her.

SILENCE. He's frightened by his own gesture. Then he puts

down the cup and sits on the chair beside the bed. They don't

look at each other.

LONG PAUSE.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

SCENE 51 - INT. APARTMENT - DAY

The various paintings hanging in the apartment. Without their

frames. Like views on various realities.

SILENCE. Sometimes, the REMOTE sound of TRAFFIC in the

distance.

SCENE 52 - INT. HALLWAY - LIVING ROOM - DINING ROOM - DAY

Living room.

Georges is drinking tea and reading the newspaper. SILENCE.

Suddenly, the DOORBELL RINGS.

Georges, annoyed, puts down his newspaper, gets up, goes into

the hallway and goes to the front door.

Georges, panicked, thinks for a few seconds.

He goes toward the bedroom door, locks it and puts the key in

his pocket. He goes into the dining room, also closes the

door leading to the bedroom. He comes back. He is about to go

toward the front door, but remains motionless an instant,

opens the door of the toilet that is located just nearby,

flushes the toilet, closes the toilet door again and opens

the front door.

A brief kiss hello.

He closes the front door behind Eva, indicates the direction

of the living room.

Eva points to the bedroom with a questioning look. He shakes

his head as if to play down the question, and indicates back

in the direction of the living room, as if to say: "You

understand, huh?". Eva is slightly irritated, but follows him

into the living room.

He closes the door.

Eva wants to answer, but finally gives in and sits down.

Georges does the same.

Eva glares at him.

PAUSE. Eva is speechless.

Then she gets up and makes to go to the door.

She stops short, looks at him.

She hesitates a moment, but winds up leaving the living room.

WE HEAR HER PASS IN THE HALLWAY TO GO INTO THE BEDROOM AND

HER VAIN ATTEMPT TO OPEN THE DOOR.

Georges remains seated, motionless, until she comes back. She

seems upset by the situation, as one would expect.

They look at each other.

Reluctantly, Eva heads toward her armchair and sits down.

PAUSE. Then Georges goes on in a quiet voice:

SILENCE. Eva looks down. Finally, she says:

They remain seated for a moment, finally Eva gets up. Georges

follows her into the hallway.

He unlocks the door and they enter the bedroom.

The bright light from outside filters through the blinds.

Eva goes over to the bed, looks at Anne. Finally, she

caresses her face, shyly and clumsily. Anne opens her eyes.

Looks at her. No movement.

Anne emits a FURIOUS SOUND.

SILENCE.

Georges has remained by the door. After a while, they both

leave the bedroom, cross the hallway to come back in the

living room.

Georges closes the door. For an instant he puts a consoling

hand on Eva's shoulder. Then he sits down.

Eva, trying to compose herself, goes toward the window and

looks outside. Suddenly she starts sobbing.

After a while, Georges gets up and goes out of the room. Eva,

vexed, blows her nose.

Shortly after, Georges comes back. He has another teacup in

his hand, puts it down beside his on the table and sits down.

Eva turns toward him.

After a short PAUSE, Eva comes toward the table. Sits down.

He fills her cup.

She takes the cup, drinks. Replaces it. Still can't bring

herself to look at him.

She nods her head, indicating she understands. Finally she

looks at him:

Brief PAUSE.

Eva looks at him.

SCENE 53 - INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Georges is seated on the bed beside Anne, who is still

bedridden.

PAUSE. Anne puts her hand on Georges'.

SILENCE.

SCENE 54 - INT. BATHROOM - HALLWAY - BEDROOM - DAY

Georges is shaving. Suddenly we hear, coming from the

bedroom,

Georges wipes his face and, to the sound of Anne's cries,

crosses the hallway and enters the bedroom.

Anne continues to cry out in a monotone to herself.

Georges goes over to her bed.

He raises her blanket for an instant and sniffs, then

replaces it.

He sits down beside her on the bed. Takes her hand.

Anne has become ever calmer during Georges' story. He still

holds her hand.

LONG SILENCE.

Then Georges reaches across Anne's body to get hold of his

pillow and presses it over her face. STIFLED SOUNDS from

Anne. Everything that can still move in her body starts to

move. Georges presses down heavily on the pillow, lies on it

with his whole weight, for a long time, until all Anne's

movements stop. Then he sits up, exhausted, and without

removing the pillow from her face, remains seated beside her.

SILENCE.

SCENE 55 - INT. HALLWAY - KITCHEN - DAY

Hallway.

The front door of the apartment is unlocked. Georges, in city

clothes, enters with two big shopping bags full of cut

flowers. He puts down the bags, takes off his coat, hangs it

in the closet.

The TELEPHONE RINGS. Georges takes the bags and carries them

in the kitchen, puts them in the sink, fills it with water.

He starts to cut the stems and put the flowers in the water.

We watch him doing so for a while. Meanwhile, the TELEPHONE

HAS STOPPED RINGING.

SCENE 56 - INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Georges has opened one of the sections of the large wall

closet. He is looking for a specific dress. He takes some

out, puts them back inside. One of the dresses slips off its

hanger and falls to the floor. He picks it up, hangs it up

again. He ends up finding the one he was looking for. He

takes it out on its hanger. Closes the closet again.

Looks at the dress. Then he lowers his arm a little and is

about to leave the bedroom. He catches his feet in the dress.

He just saves himself from tripping up by grabbing on to the

wheelchair that is parked there. Exhausted, he flops down

into it.

SCENE 57 - INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

With wide adhesive tape, Georges seals up the door frame of

the bedroom.

SCENE 58 - INT. KITCHEN - ADJOINING BEDROOM - HALLWAY - DAY

Georges is seated at the kitchen table where he had breakfast

with Anne in Scene 8, and writes a letter. PAUSES for

reflection. GENTLE COOING OF PIGEONS, scarcely audible.

Suddenly, Georges starts.

At the far end of the long kitchen, beside the door between

the kitchen units, a pigeon is walking. Georges stares at it.

For a long time.

Then he gets up slowly and, via the door located beside the

kitchen table, he goes into the adjoining room.

On the sofa there, he has set up his new bed. He takes the

wool blanket from the bed and comes back into the kitchen,

carefully approaches the pigeon that then runs off in alarm.

Georges carefully opens up the blanket and finally throws it

over the pigeon. But it manages to escape into the hallway.

Georges follows it. This action is repeated several times.

The pigeon is more and more panicky, starts to fly up,

flutters about in all directions. Georges closes the light-

well window to cut off its escape route. This lasts an

exhausting amount of time, but he ends up capturing it. He

cuddles it against him, rolled up in the blanket, leans

against a wall, then holds it as if it were a baby.

SCENE 59 - INT. ADJOINING ROOM - KITCHEN - NIGHT

From the adjoining room, we see Georges seated at the kitchen

table, writing. Finally we see what he is writing:

... you won't believe it. A pigeon came in, for the second

time already, through the light well. This time I caught it.

In fact it wasn't difficult at all. But I set it free again.

I'm going to ...

SCENE 60 - INT. ADJOINING ROOM - KITCHEN - HALLWAY - DAY

Georges is lying on his bed in the adjoining room, staring at

the ceiling. O.S., we faintly hear the SOUND of running

water, and from time to time the CLATTERING OF DISHES.

After a while, Georges gets up and goes into the kitchen.

He remains in the doorway and watches Anne who, doing the

dishes, at first doesn't pay attention to him, then notices

his presence and shoots him a quick glance, saying casually:

Georges continues to look at her unwaveringly.

Georges looks at her an instant longer, passes beside her,

goes into the hallway, sits down on a stool beside the closet

and puts on his shoes. O.S. we hear Anne finishing her work.

She comes out, hangs up her apron in the closet, disappears

for a few moments into the bathroom. Meanwhile, Georges has

got up, and looks in the bathroom where, clearly, Anne is

tidying her hair and sprucing herself up. When she comes out

again, he takes her coat from the closet and helps her put it

on.

They head for the front door.

Georges thinks a few seconds, then takes his trench-coat from

the hook and they leave the apartment.

SCENE 61 - INT. HALLWAY - BEDROOM - DINING ROOM - LIVING ROOM

Four long shots: all the windows are open. The sun is

shining. It is fairly bright.

Hallway.

SILENCE. Then the SOUND OF A LOCK BEING OPENED. Eva comes

into the apartment. Remains a long time beside the door.

Looks around her, ill at ease. Finally she hesitantly goes

into the bedroom.

Anne's twin bed isn't there any more. On Georges' bed lies

only the bare mattress. Eva remains there a moment, then goes

through the partition door into the dining room.

There, everything is as usual. Eva continues into the living

room.

There too, everything is as usual. Eva stops by the piano

stool. Looks out of the window, feeling at a loss. Then she

heads toward the sofa and armchairs in the corner. On the

table lie the remains of a snack. Eva looks at the table,

turns again toward the open windows, through which we hear

STREET NOISE. Then she sits down, exhausted, in one of the

armchairs. Her diminutive frame seems lost in the big room.

END CREDITS (white on a black background)

