Jenny looks at him curiously. Graham steels himself to

speak.

Jenny winces again. Her father stares at Graham. Graham

blushes.

It's the night of the youth orchestra concert. Jenny, her

mother and father are on their way out of the door. Jack is

carrying the cello. Jenny is in her school uniform, with

her hair scrubbed back in a severe ponytail. The three of

them are flustered. Jenny opens the front door for her

father and he stumbles outside.

She has seen something on the doorstep, and she stoops to

pick it up - a large bunch of flowers.

Jenny opens the card that's attached to them.

Jenny sighs, puts them inside the house, shuts the door.

Jenny and two school friends, HATTIE and TINA, are sitting

at a table in a typical late-50s coffee bar, sipping

cappuccinos. Jenny is easily the most attractive of the

three - and also, we will see, possibly the cleverest.

HATTIE is slower than the other two, and a lot frumpier;

TINA is pretty, and sharp rather than clever. She is also

the least middle-class of the three - she's clearly a

scholarship girl. They are all dressed in an unflattering

and unambiguous school uniform - no attempts to disguise it

with more fashionable accessories. Jenny is smoking

pretentiously, and seems to be practising some kind of

pout. Tina starts to slurp the froth from her cappuccino

with a spoon, inelegantly and noisily. Jenny tuts her

disapproval. Tina sighs, and puts her spoon down.

Marjorie rolls her eyes.

Jenny and David walk toward the beautiful hall. Jenny

suddenly looks young in the dress that looks too old for

her - other adults are milling around outside, and the

women don't look like girls dressed up. David makes for an

incredibly glamorous and attractive couple in their late

twenties who are waiting outside - DANNY and HELEN. Helen

is as far from anyone's idea of an aunt as one can get.

She's no more beautiful than Jenny, but she's dressed both

appropriately and spectacularly, in early-60s, pre-hippy

Bohemian gear. She turns heads in a way that Jenny is not

yet able to. Danny too is attractive, but soberly so. David

and Jenny are, in a way, paler, less striking versions of

these two.

Jenny and David laugh politely.

He leaves the room, apparently to   look in   the garden   for

the mythical trees.

Jenny and her mother move to the window to    watch him

talking theatrically to the trees.

Jenny, Hattie and Tina are walking back from school.

Hattie and Tina follow Jenny's eyes, and they see Graham

coming towards them pushing his bike, red-faced, trousers

tucked into socks.

The four get out of the car, and Jenny follows David and

Danny to the front door of the house. Helen hangs back.

Jenny turns around.

Jenny is mystified.

David ignores her.

Helen and Jenny waiting for the boys. Helen is blithe,

chatty; Jenny has a face like thunder.

Jenny closes her eyes, makes her wish, blows out her

candles. Her father and mother both look at her, apparently

attempting to read her mind. Jack gets up to turn the

lights on. We can see that by Jenny's side are two

unopened, carefully-wrapped presents, both exactly the same

size - clearly books.

In truth, the cake is a rather sorry and unappetising

specimen. There isn't enough icing on the top. She cuts a

couple of slices which immediately collapse.

Without any real enthusiasm, Jenny opens the first one of

the two, from her mum and dad. It's a Latin dictionary.

The doorbell rings. Jenny perks up. Jack goes to answer it,

and immediately the house is energised: it's David.

Jack answers the door to David.

David enters. You can hardly see him for all the parcels

and flowers he's carrying.

Jenny's face sets hard. Something in her shuts down.

Jenny is smoking on the balcony.

Jenny is at her desk in her bedroom, trying to work, but

she can't concentrate. Her hair is tied back in a pony-

tail. She gets up, pulls back the curtains, looks out of

the window. We see what she sees: a sleepy suburban street

at night. She looks back at her desk. It looks even more

boring than the street. She looks at her scrubbed seventeen-

year-old face in the mirror - so much younger than the

Jenny we have seen with David. She makes herself up, and

she gets older and more glamorous before our eyes. In her

make-up and her school uniform, she's half-woman, half-

child. We hear the noises drifting up from the kitchen: the

radio, the washing-up, occasional muffled conversation.

Jenny walks out of the bedroom and slips downstairs.

Jenny's mother and father are doing the washing up and

listening to the radio. They have their backs to the door.

Jenny enters the room quietly and watches them for a moment

Jack and Marjorie turn around and stare at this strange

apparition wearing too much make-up and a school uniform.

They both smile. David opens the door for Jenny and she

gets into the car.

Jenny is making David a cup of tea. Her mother is keeping

an eye on Jenny - in Marjorie's mind at least, this is a

rehearsal for something.

Jenny sighs and rolls her eyes. She picks up the hand-

knitted tea-cosy and puts it on her head.

David laughs.

She puts the tea-cosy on the tea-pot.

Marjorie and Jack look at each other. David swings the car

around and they drive home in silence; Jenny cries

constantly, without making a sound.

The Bristol draws up outside Jenny's house. David jumps out

of the car and lets Marjorie and Jack out. Jack starts to

walk towards the house and then stops.

Jenny gets out of the car too.

Jenny and David watch Jack and Marjorie go into the house.

The moment the door is closed, Jenny walks towards David.

She's holding a bunch of letters that she took out of the

glove compartment. She starts to throw them at him, one by

one.

When she has thrown the last one, she flies at David - she

slaps him, punches him, scratches him. David tries to grab

her hands, but she's too wild.

Finally he manages to subdue her. She leans against the

car, distraught.

Jenny marches into the house and slams the door. The camera

stays on David. He gets back into the car and takes

another slug of whiskey. Then his shoulders begin to

shake, and he cries and cries.

Jenny comes in, leaving the door open for David. Her

parents are standing in the sitting room, looking at her

anxiously. Their coats are still on, and they haven't put

the lights on yet.

She stands, pale and young-looking again, opposite her

parents. Suddenly they are all three lit up by headlights.

Shot from their POV of the Bristol roaring off up the

street.

We close slowly in on Jenny's face. But of course he'd

drive off!

Jenny can't deal with her own pain, let alone his. He

already looks like a broken, foolish old man. They should

hug. But they don't.

A suburban street, full of semi-detached houses, not far

from Jenny's house. Jenny walks down the road tentatively -

she's looking at the numbers on the houses. She looks young

again - tired, no make-up, no elegant clothes. She can't

bring herself to wear anything that David bought her.

She hesitates at the top of the driveway to the house,

steels herself to walk down. But just at that moment the

door opens; there's a homely-looking woman, early 30s. She

is holding the hand of a three-year-old. Jenny is stunned.

But there's more to come.

She nods at the children.

Jenny does the maths. It's all she can do to stop herself

from reeling backwards - she's visibly shaken.

She pushes past Jenny and leaves her standing bereft on the

path.

Marjorie and Jack are in the kitchen. Marjorie is sipping

tea, shoulders hunched, defeated. Jack is pacing around the

room, furious. Normal life has clearly been suspended

during this crisis. Jenny walks in.

He starts for the door.

He gives up hopelessly. Marjorie says nothing.

Jack looks at her.

Jenny looks at him in disbelief.

Jack stands outside Jenny's bedroom door with a cup of tea.

He knocks tentatively.

Close-up of the floaty print dress that Helen gave her. The

dress is suddenly jerked out of shot, and we pull back to

reveal a weeping Jenny stuffing it violently into an

already full box of things she is throwing out. The

contents represent her now-despised, David-created adult

self. We can see Juliette Greco albums, photos, expensive-

looking jewelry boxes. She continues to stuff things into

the box. There's a knock on the door.

She continue to put her David-life away into bags. She

ignores him.

Jack is almost in tears.

No answer. He puts the tea on the floor, and sits down next

to it.

He waits for an answer - nothing.

Jenny is about to rip a poster off the wall, but she

pauses.

He holds Jenny's gaze. She looks away.

Jenny has put on her school uniform for this meeting; it

completes a circle. She's back where she started from, or

would like to be, anyway. If she seems older than she did

when we first met her, it's because things have happened to

her, and they've left a mark on her face. She's worried and

tired. The headmistress, meanwhile, is delighted by her

return - but only because of the opportunities for smugness

and schadenfreude it provides.

Jenny doesn't say anything. She has clearly decided to

swallow anything she has to.

Beat. Jenny stands up and leaves without saying a word. The

headmistress is pleased with her final line.

Jenny working hard in her room. It's been completely

stripped bare of everything except schoolbooks. She has

become ageless, genderless - her life is now monastic.

Jenny walking alone through her old park.

Jenny on her own, smoking nervously. Hattie and Tina come

in. They obviously haven't seen her since it all happened.

They both hug her sympathetically and sit down. Nobody

knows what to say.

Jenny smiles wanly, and briefly.

They look at her. This is new information.

Beat.

Jenny thinks.

Jenny in a suburban street. She's looking for an address.

She finds the house, walks down the path, rings on a bell.

Miss Stubbs comes to the door.

It's a warm greeting. She ushers her inside.

It's a proper Bohemian flat, up in the eaves. There are

books and papers and paintings covering every available

surface. Jenny looks around. Finally, for the first time,

we see her in somewhere she can feel at home.

Miss Stubbs makes a face.

Miss Stubbs laughs.

A poster catches Jenny's eye.

Miss Stubbs laughs.

Jenny pauses.

Eighteen months later. Swelling orchestral music. Close on

Jenny cycling, absorbed, happy, the cello strapped to her

precariously. The camera pulls back to show her cycling

through the streets of Oxford. She's done it. We follow her

for a little while. She dismounts outside a church and

leans the bike against a wall. Just as she's about to leave

it, she sees something and freezes. We follow her gaze:

it's the red Bristol, parked a little way down the road

just in front of her. She scans the street to see if she

can find David. She can - he's coming round a corner, a

littler further down the street, unwrapping a packet of

cigarettes. Jenny moves into his eye-line. He sees her,

stops, then walks towards her.

