INT      PAPAL APARTMENT      DAY

CLOSE ON an ornate ring.     It's intricately carved with a seal, an

image of St. Peter casting a net.     The ring is carried on a satin

pillow through a darkened, regal apartment.     In the distance,

BELLS ARE TOLLING   -- the slow, solemn tones that announce a death.

A dozen men in scarlet cassocks, ROMAN CATHOLIC CARDINALS, bend

down to inspect the ring, nodding in affirmation, part of an

ancient ritual.

A younger man (the CAMERLENGO) in a black cassock takes a silver

knife and scratches the ring's seal twice, once horizontally and

once vertically, in the sign of the cross.

Now the ring is placed on a lead block.    The Camerlengo raises a

silver mallet and SMASHES it down, shattering the ring into a

thousand tiny pieces.

As the Cardinals confirm to their satisfaction that the ring has

been destroyed, the HUSHED VOICE of a NEWS REPORTER comes over the

image.

IN THE HALLWAY JUST OUTSIDE THE APARTMENT,

the Cardinals file out in a solemn procession. Behind them, the

Camerlengo closes and locks the doors to the apartment entrance,

helped by an AIDE who stretches red silk across the doors in the

form of an X.

At the juncture point of the doors, the Camerlengo places a glob

of hot wax, then raises a seal and BURNS it into the wax with a

hot SIZZLE.    TWO SWISS GUARDSMEN, traditionally attired, step in

front of the doors, their eight-foot swords held in a low cross.

INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA         DAY

In St. Peter's Basilica, we move in toward an empty chair, a chair

so magnificent it can only be called a throne.

A ring appears around the empty throne and --

INT      CERN - DETECTOR ROOM          DAY

-- a ring as ornate in its way as the Ring of the Fisherman, except

this one is a mass of technological sophistication.    It's twenty-

five feet across, covered with wires, sensors, gizmos.    It's the

centerpiece of a massive laboratory the size of a football field.

SCIENTISTS and TECHNICIANS read off checklists in a variety of

languages, none of them English so far.    The place is a hive of

activity and sound; cooling water WHOOSHES through pipes, the

static HUM of high levels of current floats in the air.

VITTORIA VETRA, an intense woman in her mid-thirties with the long

stride of an impatient person, makes her way across the floor to

PHILLIPE, the project manager, a Frenchman around fifty.    She

follows him as he climbs down a scaffolding that surrounds the

detector wheel and heads toward a console across the room.

Reluctantly, Phillipe sits down at a console and starts entering

commands, shaking his head.

He looks at her sideways, didn't like the sound of that.    He

hits a few last keystrokes and a series of flashing lights

reconnect what looks like a lower laboratory complex to the main

grid.    She nods her thanks and starts to go.

And on the word "heaven," everything goes white and --

INT      ST.    PETER'S BASILICA          DAY

--- a veil of thin white silk billows down over the face of the

dead pontiff. TWO VATICAN FUNEREAL WORKERS pull a second veil over

his face, then another over his head and hands.

A burled cypress lid slides over the top of the coffin, which is

carried out of frame and into ---

EXT     ST.    PETER'S SQUARE           DAY

--- St. Peter's Square, packed with THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND MOURNERS,

including kings, queens, presidents, and prime ministers.

The PROCESSION OF CARDINALS is a ribbon of red making its way

through the kaleidoscope of colors of the assembled religious

dignitaries.    On the brilliant array of colors ---

INT      CERN - DETECTOR ROOM          DAY

--- another array of colors, this one like the best fireworks

display you've ever seen.     Pulling back, we realize it's on one

of the giant monitor screens in the detector room at CERN, all of

which are lit up with similar arrays.

Something has happened and there's an enormous amount of

excitement in the room.    More Scientists and Technicians pour

in, take their seats at consoles, CONFER excitedly.    A

computerized voice speaks English over a loudspeaker:

It repeats the message in Italian, German, French, and Chinese.

INT      CERN TUNNEL      DAY

Elevator doors open in a subterranean tunnel and Vittoria steps

out.    A long tube, about four feet across, runs off into the

distance, and as Vittoria heads off in the other direction, we see

that the tunnel, and its cylinder, go on forever that way too.

TWO MORE TECHNICIANS hurry down the tunnel and jump into the

elevator she just vacated.

Vittoria steps up to a security panel and places her chin in a

cup.    A vertical laser sweeps across her eyeball and we --

INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA         DAY

--- an ancient carved incense holder that swings back and forth at

the end of a chain, swung by a PRIEST in St. Peter's Basilica. A

THOUSAND FAITHFUL are gathered for ---

At the front, CARDINAL MORTATI stands behind a massive altar, arms

outstretched, praying in Latin for the assembled luminaries.

As he performs the service, intoning in a dead language --

INT      ANTIMATTER LAB      DAY

--- Vittoria steps through an airlock and emerges in a gleaming

white underground lab.     Everything, everywhere, is white.

There are a dozen columns of polished steel about three feet tall,

each of which supports a transparent canister the size of a tennis

ball can.    They appear empty.

LEONARDO BENTIVOGLIO, sixtyish, black pants and a short-sleeve

black shirt, is at work at a command console in the center of the

room.    (They speak to each other in Italian, subtitled.)

He turns around, and we thought his black pants and shirt looked

familiar -- now we see his Roman collar and realize this physicist

is also a priest.

While Leonardo and Vittoria work at the console, we move slowly

across the room toward those strange vertical pillars.

INT       ST.   PETER'S BASILICA        DAY

In St. Peter's, we're in a complimentary move, down the aisle past

the College of Cardinals, one hundred sixty-five aging men in

brilliant red robes, seated near the altar.

We move onto the altar, close enough to Mortati to get a good look

at him.    He's in his late seventies, grave, eyes closed in

religious fervor as he consecrates the communion host.

INT      ANTIMATTER LAB       DAY

In the lab, we're still moving, close to one of the pillars and to

the transparent tube on top of it.    The tube isn't empty, as we

first thought, there's something suspended in the middle of it, a

drop, round and white, floating in mid-air.

INT      ST.    PETER'S BASILICA        DAY

Mortati reaches the religious climax of the ceremony and holds

aloft the round white communion host.

A THOUSAND VOICES begin singing in St. Peter's, we go in close on

the host and dissolve to ---

INT      ANTIMATTER LAB       DAY

--- that otherworldly drop, also round and white, a perfect match

for the host, but so different, hovering in the tube like a hot

blob of mercury, defying gravity.

Everything abruptly goes black and a title bleeds on screen:

INT      HARVARD COLLEGE - NATATORIUM DAWN

The bottom of a swimming pool.    A lithe figure SLASHES like a

knife through the water, doing laps.

The swimmer is the only one in the pool, but still pushes like

he's got someone to beat.    His strokes echo off vacant bleachers

in an oldish college natatorium.

As he reaches the end of the pool, he sees a murky figure through

the water.    The swimmer stops, pulls off his goggles.

ROBERT LANGDON is fiftyish, but looks ten years younger, must have

something to do with two hundred laps at dawn every day.

CLAUDIO VINCENZO is heavier, dressed in a sport jacket and slacks,

looks exhausted.    He speaks with an Italian accent.

Langdon gets out and pulls a towel off a nearby bench.

Vincenzo has no idea what he's talking about.

He heads for the locker room.        Vincenzo calls after him.

Langdon turns back. Vincenzo's holding a single sheet of paper in

his right hand. Langdon, curious, makes his way back to him.

Takes the paper ---

--- and, it is safe to say, feels the earth give way beneath his

feet.     He looks up, eyes wide, and mutters a single word:

EXT     HARVARD CAMPUS DAWN

As the sun comes up, Langdon and Vincenzo leave the natatorium.

Vincenzo looks at it. The word llluminati is written in ornate

script.    Vincenzo looks back up --- so?

Vincenzo does. Incredibly, the word reads exactly the same way

upside down.

INT     LANGDON'S APARTMENT          DAY

A hand skims along a bookcase and stops at that very title, a

heavy academic tome.    Langdon pulls it out and drops it on the

desk in his apartment with a THUD.

(The apartment is cluttered with esoterica, the home of a man

whose taste in furnishings was very fashionable about four hundred

years ago.    A single man -- no kid stuff, no cats.)

Langdon flips the book open to an illustrated section in the

middle, filled with renderings of previous attempts to create the

symbol he now holds in his hand.

Incredible.    Either someone just

figured out how to make this, or they

found it.    Recently.    Which would

mean the llluminati have returned.

An ancient brotherhood, enemies of the

church, surfacing just after the death

of a Pope?    I'd pull you off

vacation too.

It's worse than just that.    Four

cardinals were kidnapped from their

quarters inside the Vatican some time

between three and five a.m. this

morning. Shortly afterward, the Office

of the Swiss Guard received that

document, along with the threat that

the Cardinals will be publicly

executed, one per hour, starting at

seven p.m. tonight, in Rome.

Conclave?

Was to begin today.    We have

postponed its start for a few hours, a

story of illness, there are no

suspicions. Yet.

What do you want from me?

The perpetrators of this heinous act

sent that -- ambigram, you say? -- as a

provocation, a taunt.     But it may

also be their undoing.     If you can

help us learn their identity, perhaps

we can stop them.

Why me?

Your expertise.    Your erudition. And

your involvement with recent Church --

shall we say "mysteries?"

Langdon doesn't move, just stares at the ambigram, still amazed.

EXT     AIRPORT       DAY

A small private plane SCREAMS into the sky.

EXT     ROME      DAY

We soar over Rome, the Eternal City. A helicopter WHOOSHES into

frame below us.

INT      HELICOPTER         DAY

The papal helicopter is plush inside, and nearly silent. A very

pricey piece of equipment.    Vincenzo stares out the window.

Langdon, seated across from him, stifles a laugh.

Vincenzo looks at him sharply.

Langdon turns and looks out the front window of the helicopter as,

up ahead, the marble facade of St. Peter's Basilica blazes like

fire in the afternoon sun.

EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE         DAY

Pulling away from the helicopter, we see a coat of arms emblazoned

on its side -- two skeleton keys crossing a shield and papal crown.

The helicopter SWOOPS over St. Peter's Square, filled with more

tourists than usual, due to the impending start of Conclave.

We drift toward a structure on the far side of the Square, closer

to its huge, ornate windows.    As we approach, large swaths of

black drop down, draping over the windows, closing off our view.

INT      SISTINE CHAPEL        DAY

Inside, WORKERS continue to drape large bolts of black velvet over

the windows, sealing this room off from outside.    Pulling back,

we realize it's not just any room ---

--- it's the Sistine Chapel.   As the last window is blackened,

the room is bathed in a profound darkness lit only by candles.

ONE HUNDRED SIXTY-ONE MEN in red robes are gathered inside the

Chapel, the College of Cardinals.    They talk in a polyglot of

languages, milling about the place, conferring, catching up on old

friendships.

Cardinal Mortati, the Dean of the College who led the Pope's elegy

mass, is the type of man one crosses a room to see, not the other

way around.

He chats in Italian with two other Cardinals, until a black-

cassocked aide (FATHER SIMEON) outside the open doors of the

Chapel catches his eye.    Mortati excuses himself, steps through

the open doorway, and into ---

INT      SALON      DAY

-- the salon just outside the Chapel.    Father Simeon is an unctuous

man in his fifties with eyes that are always looking for whoever's

behind you.    (They speak in Italian, subtitled.)

Father Simeon gives him a look -- perhaps you?

EXT    VATICAN - STREET       DAY

On the ground now and behind Vatican walls, Langdon and Vincenzo

walk briskly around a corner and are met by ERNESTO OLIVETTI, a

solidly-built man in his late thirties.

He takes Langdon by the arm and gestures down a narrow passageway.

They turn a corner and approach a squat stone building labeled

"Offizia della Guarda Suiza."

TWO SWISS GUARDSMEN are standing outside the entrance to the

building.    They're somewhat comically dressed in puffy tunics

vertically striped in brilliant blue and gold, with matching

pantaloons and spats, topped by a black beret.

Langdon can't completely hide a smile.    Olivetti notices.    The

Guards raise their eight-foot swords, allowing the three of them

to enter the building.

INT     SWISS GUARD OFFICES - CORRIDOR      DAY

The interior of the Swiss Guard offices is ornate and filled with

artwork, like every other Vatican building.    As they walk,

Langdon studies the row of statues of male nudes that lines both

sides of the hallway, all wearing fig leaves.

Olivetti stops abruptly, outside a heavy steel door with a

security keyguard beside it.

He enters a five-digit number on the keypad and the steel doors

slide open.

INT     SWISS GUARD HEADQUARTERS          DAY

The headquarters of the Swiss Guard is in a lushly adorned

Renaissance library crammed with sophisticated communications and

surveillance equipment.    It's crowded, Swiss Guard (in suits and

ties, the pantaloons are more for show), uniformed Carbinieri, and

Vatican Police crammed around different stations, some working

together, others arguing, mostly in Italian.

He crosses the room to a tall, fair-haired man around sixty,

weathered like steel -- maybe "tempered" is the better word.

While they confer, Langdon notices a woman to his left.    We

recognize Vittoria Vetra, the physicist we saw at CERN.

She catches Langdon's eye, forces a grim smile, recognizes they're

both strangers here.    Olivetti comes back with COMMANDER ROCHER,

the tall man, very much in charge.    He speaks with a French/Swiss

ACCENT

He leads Vittoria across the room, to a surveillance monitor.

Langdon, puzzled by the cold shoulder, looks at Olivetti, who

leans in.

Across the room, they hear Vittoria GASP.   Olivetti goes to join

them, nodding to Langdon to follow.

AT THE MONITOR,

Langdon and Olivetti join Rocher and Vittoria and stare at the

image on a video monitor -- it's a familiar-looking canister, in

which a metallic drop of liquid shimmers in the middle, suspended.

The acronym CERN is stenciled up its side.     On its base is an

LED display, counting down from about six hours.

At the top of the monitor flashes superimposed text -- LIVE FEED,

CAMERA #86.

They look at her, don't quite see the connection.

They cringe.

They look at her blankly.    She points at the screen,

Silence for a moment.

Softly, Langdon speaks up from behind her.

A few voices fall still.   They turn and look at him.

INT     ROCHER'S OFFICE       DAY

A few moments later, they're crowded around the communications

console at Rocher's desk, where a dimly-lit video recording is

playing back on a computer screen.    (The office is behind a

glass wall to one side of the headquarters.)

The images on the recording are of FOUR OLDER MEN, some in their

sixties, the others in their seventies, filmed in dim light behind

bars in a dank, dungeon-like space.

A lightly accented VOICE speaks from behind the camera.

Rocher does

He pulls the "llluminati" ambigram from his pocket.

Rocher hits play again.

While listening this time, Langdon notices a darkened video

monitor, inlaid at an angle on Rocher's desk.    It faces away

from the outer office, and instead of an on/off switch, there is

an oddly-shaped keyhole.

Langdon looks up sharply.

Rocher stops the video.

Rocher shakes his head, looks at Olivetti harshly, is embarrassed.

They just stare at him. Shit, this guy's good. Langdon checks his

watch, getting irritated.

INT     PAPAL OFFICES      DAY

A spectacular view of St. Peter's Square, through the windows of

the Papal offices.    Moving down, we find a figure dressed in a

simple black cassock, his back to us, staring out at the crowd.

FATHER SEBASTIAN GUTTIEREZ, the Camerlengo, speaks with a soft

Spanish accent.

Assembled in the grand office are Langdon, Rocher, Olivetti, and

Vittoria.    The Camerlengo's back is still turned.

He turns around.    He's younger than we thought, in his mid-

thirties, deep, dark eyes.    The kind of priest who often

inspires, before the years of dogma catch up with him.

He sits behind the massive desk, and if he seemed young before, he

seems like a child now, overcome by the position he's in.    But

when he speaks to Rocher, he's in command.

Rocher looks at Olivetti -- gotta admit, that's a pretty damn good

idea.

He pauses, thinking, then turns the phone on his desk to face her.

While she picks it up to dial, the Camerlengo comes around his

desk to speak privately to Langdon.

Langdon looks at him -- fire away.

The Camerlengo looks at him -- that's not quite good enough.

The Camerlengo looks at him for a long moment. Pretty damn good

answer.    He puts a hand on Langdon's shoulder and leans in.

EXT     APOSTOLIC PALACE       DAY

The back doors of the Apostolic Palace BANG open and Langdon is

ushered out (fast) by Olivetti, the head of the Vatican Police.

They turn down a narrow passageway. A VOICE calls from behind

them.

Vittoria catches up to them.

Olivetti nods to her, come on along. They walk again, holds a hand

out to Langdon.

Vicenzo, leading them, turns up Via Sentinel and starts up the

hill toward the Archives. They follow, quickly.

Langdon stops in his tracks.

He's staring up at the impressive facade of the Vatican Archives.

He takes a deep breath, then steps forward to enter.    But

Vincenzo doesn't follow.    Langdon looks at him.

Langdon turns back to the Archives with a look of deep contentment

-- he's wanted in here for a long, long time.

And steps through the double doors.

INT     APOSTOLIC PALACE        DAY

The Camerlengo walks briskly through the hallways of the Apostolic

Palace, deep in thought.    He reaches the top of the Royal

Staircase, and can hear the RUMBLING of activity in the Sistine

Chapel below.

Looking down the stairs, he sees the doorway open, and the

gathering of cardinals inside.    As he reaches the base of the

stairs, Cardinal Mortati, who has been summoned, steps outside to

meet him, flanked by his aide, Father Simeon.

Vincenzo, leading them, turns up Via Sentinel and starts up the

hill toward the Archives.    They follow, quickly.

They speak in English, their common language.

The Camerlengo thinks, feels the weight of this decision on his

young shoulders.

Mortati bristles at the thinly-veiled insult.

Satisfied, Mortati looks back over his shoulder, at the anxious

faces in the Chapel.    Then turns back to the Camerlengo.

With a heavy THUD, the huge doors close and bolts SLAM into place.

An ancient key GRINDS in an ornate lock, two heavy chains RATTLE

into place, FOUR SWISS GUARD take position in front of the doors

and at that very moment --

INT      VATICAN ARCHIVES      DAY

-- two huge, modern glass doors WHOOSH open, revealing what looks

like a 23rd century library.     It's a massive underground space,

like a darkened airplane hangar, with a dozen glass boxes evenly

spaced throughout.     They're lit up from within, each containing

row upon row of bookshelves, neatly filled with books, papers, and

arcana.

LT. CHARTRAND, a twenty-five year old member of the Swiss Guard

(in a suit and earpiece, not the traditional garb), leads Langdon

and Vittoria toward the glass enclosures.

He stops at one particular chamber and gestures to the sign on its

door -- "Il Processo Galileano."

Langdon starts toward the entrance to the vault, but Chartrand

puts a hand on his chest, stopping him.

Langdon looks at him.    He's not popular around here.

INT      GALILEO VAULT      DAY

The electronic revolving door spins and admits Langdon to the

interior of the vault. He takes a deep breath, holds it, and lets

it out.

Vittoria follows shortly behind him, and she's unprepared -- the

lack of oxygen hits her hard, she dizzies.

He checks his watch.   It's 7:07.

INT     A DARK SPACE       DAY

In a dark space, a tea bag bobs delicately up and down in a cup of

hot water.    An elegant man in his forties, dressed in a casual

suit, no tie, HUMS softly to himself as he steeps his tea.    No

idea of his name, but his suit is gray, so how about MR. GRAY.

The tea is on an old wooden table, being heated by a small can of

sterno.    While Mr. Gray bobs the tea bag, he stares at something

to his right.

Money.    A lot of it, in a number of different denominations,

neatly segmented in a briefcase.    And three passports, all

different colors (and nationalities), neatly placed on top of it.

Satisfied, Mr. Gray CLICKS the briefcase shut and slides it under

the table, tucking it up against the wall.    He removes the cup

from the heat, still bobbing the tea bag.

He walks, lit by candlelight that throws harsh shadows on strange

walls.    He heads down a very dark hallway, past a row of

stonewalled cells, and within each is the dimly lit figure of the

older men we saw on the videotape earlier -- the kidnapped

cardinals.

He stops at the last cell, where the man, CARDINAL LAMASSE, looks

up at him from the wooden bench he's sitting on.

A MOMENT LATER,

Mr. Gray's hand takes the burning tin of sterno and tosses it into

a fireplace, where the liquid fire consumes a pile of dry

kindling.    He picks up something else and places it in the heart

of the flames.

A long-handled iron rod.

INT     VATICAN ARCHIVES       DAY

Inside the archive, Vittoria is searching the lower shelves while

Langdon, on a ladder, digs through folio bins higher up.

His eyes light up as he pulls a slender volume out of a folio bin

on one of the top shelves.

A MOMENT LATER,

Langdon, now wearing white cotton gloves, sets the tiny manuscript

on a viewing stand.

Carefully, he turns the first page.

He stops.   They study the page,

She reaches for the book, to pull it towards her, but Langdon

SLAPS her hand.    He holds up his own, glove

She rolls her eyes and leans in, studying the page.     There are

sketches on the page as well.

Langdon's nervous. This doesn't sound right. Vittoria turns the

page, turns it back.

She turns the page, then turns it back.    Noticing something in

the deep crevice of the margin as the page moves, Langdon grabs a

magnifying glass on the end of a long pole and swings it over.

There, in the print gutter, what looked like a smudge is revealed

under the magnifier to be --

He rotates the book.

He keeps rotating the book, finds two more tiny lines written at

the very edges, barely visible to the naked eye.

Before Langdon can do anything to stop her, she RIPS the page from

the text and shoves it in her pocket.

Langdon's jaw drops.    He shoots a look over his shoulder at Lt.

Chartrand, but the man's back is turned.

He SNAPS the magnifying glass off the end of its pole.

EXT    VATICAN ARCHIVES DAY

The doors SLAM on a Vatican police car and the tires SQUEAL as

Olivetti hits the gas.

INT     CAR DAY

Olivetti is behind the wheel, Vittoria's in front, Langdon leans

in from the back seat.

Vittoria pulls the page from the Diagramma out of her pocket and

hands it to Langdon.    He pulls the magnifier from his coat and

studies the thin paper, turning it in his hands.

Langdon has fallen silent, but it all makes perfect sense, so he

says nothing as Olivetti cranks the wheel hard --

EXT     ROME - STREET        DAY

-- the car fishtails into a 180, and they take off in the opposite

direction, headed for the Pantheon.

EXT    PANTHEON - SIDE STREET             DAY

The police car pulls to a stop, as quietly as possible, across an

open plaza from the Pantheon.

Two black Alfa-Romeos with   tinted windows glide to a stop on

either side of them.    As   Langdon and the others get out,

Commander Rocher and THREE   MORE SWISS GUARD, all in black suits,

surround them. Rocher goes   straight to Langdon, highly skeptical.

Olivetti catches eyes with Langdon, who's still clutching the page

pulled from the Diagramma. He slips it quietly into his jacket

pocket.

She points to the Pantheon, its edifice shimmering in the early

evening light.

Rocher looks at him for a long moment, then turns abruptly to a

UNIFORMED OFFICER.

The Officer salutes and they snap into action.

Two BEEFY GUARDSMEN in black suits step forward.

Her arched eyebrow stops his sentence in its tracks.

Rocher seems to be thinking about it.           Langdon looks at her, his

protective instincts aroused.

EXT    PANTHEON - TWO MINUTES LATER

CLOSE ON a pair of hands, linked.    Vittoria and Langdon, holding

hands like lovers, walk slowly toward the entrance to the

Pantheon. A COUPLE DOZEN TOURISTS, blissfully unaware, mill about

the square while up on the rooftops, SNIPERS have them in view.

Langdon looks around, this wasn't what he had in mind.          Vittoria

glances at him, amused.

He puts an arm around her waist, feels a lump in her back.

Langdon raises his hand and checks his watch.

And with that they step through the entrance and into --

INT     PANTHEON       DAY

-- the Pantheon, a massive, circular room with a 141-foot

unsupported span even larger than the cupola of St. Peter's. There

are a DOZEN TOURISTS scattered around, and a TOUR GROUP on one

side hearing a lecture from a MUSEUM DOCENT.

Langdon looks up at the hole in the ceiling through which a bright

shaft of light is shining.

Looking around, Vittoria sees several sarcophagi scattered around

the room, all pointing obliquely in a certain direction. As they

move stealthily through the crowd, they speak in low tones:

He starts to the left, she goes to the right, walking in the

shadowy recesses behind the pillars at the edges of the room.

Langdon walks slowly, checking out faces.       Tourists.   Couples.

Teenagers.    More tourists.

Around every column, there are shadows, and in those shadows --

--- nothing.

He looks at his watch.    Five minutes to eight.       And then --

--- a SHRIEK from the other side of the room.      He whirls, sees

Vittoria backing away from something.

He races across the room, reaches her at the far side. Her face is

ashen.    She's pointing at something, aghast.

Langdon rushes forward to the crypt. There doesn't seem to be

anything out of the ordinary, except ---

He leans down, looks at the plaque on it.

His eyes flit around the room, from one ornate sarcophagus to

another.    And then it hits him:

At that very moment, the tour group is passing them, and the

elderly Docent asks his group the perfunctory wrap-up:

Langdon busts in on the group.

The Docent blinks.    Wasn't expecting quite so esoteric a

question.

Langdon suppresses the urge to grab him by the lapels and shake it

out of him.

EXT    PANTHEON DAY

A clock in the square outside the Pantheon says 7:56.    Langdon

and Vittoria face Rocher, Olivetti, and half a dozen Swiss Guard.

Rocher looks at Langdon with contempt, then BARKS orders to his

men in Italian.    They begin to head for their cars.

He turns and walks away, glaring at Olivetti.

EXT    PIAZZA DEL POPOLO      DAY

Olivetti's car SCREECHES to a halt in the Piazza del Popolo at

sunset.    Langdon, Vittoria, Olivetti, and Vincenzo, the Vatican

cop who first came to see Langdon, all climb out, start scanning

the square.

He points to an obelisk in the center of the square.

A church bell begins to TOLL.

Langdon takes off running, toward and eleventh-century church at

the southwest corner of the plaza, covered in scaffolding.

At the front door of the church,

Langdon hops over the sawhorses blocking the entrance and tries

the door.    Locked.    A sign says the place is under

construction.

At a side door,

Olivetti races alongside the church, followed by the others.

He reaches a door with a large, heavy ring, and pulls it toward

him. But the door won t budge.    He pushes, throws his shoulder

into it.    Locked.

But Olivetti just races onward, looking for another door, followed

by Vincenzo.    As they disappear around the back of the church,

Langdon steps up to the large ring, gives it an almighty twist --

INT       SANTA MARIA DEL POPOLO            DUSK

-- and the heavy door CLUNKS open.

The interior of the church is an obstacle course of torn-up

flooring, brick pallets, mounds of dirt.    Silt drifts in the

dying sunlight that shines through the broken windows and walls.

Nothing moves.    Dead silence.    Langdon and Vittoria walk

slowly to the middle of the floor, at one end of the chapel.

There are eight recesses, four on either side of a central aisle,

all covered with large sheets of plastic, to protect them during

construction.

The plastic RUSTLES ominously.       Anything could be behind any one

of them.

Vittoria pulls the gun from her waistband and holds it in front of

her.    Langdon notices, it makes him uncomfortable.

She looks at him --- what are you, nuts? Something rushes at them

from the side, she whirls --

--- and nearly blows Olivetti to kingdom come as he and Vincenzo

barrel in through the side door.

Langdon gestures --- everybody quiet. Olivetti points to the left

gestures to Langdon and Vittoria to go to the right.

They separate, to either side of the main aisle.

AT THE FIRST CHAPEL,

Langdon pulls the plastic aside, eyes scan the chapel.      Nothing.

ON THE OTHER SIDE,

Olivetti does the same, at another chapel.      Nothing.

AT THE THIRD CHAPEL,

Vittoria pushes the plastic aside, gun in front of her.      There's

a sudden movement to her left, she whirls --

--- and a rat scurries away.

AT THE FOURTH CHAPEL,

Langdon pushes the plastic aside, steps inside --

-- and GASPS.

Moving behind him, we see a Christian chapel like no other we've

ever seen.    Finished entirely in chestnut marble, overhead it

has a domed cupola with a field of illuminated stars and the seven

planets (as known in Galileo's day).

Further down the wall, there are tributes to earth's four seasons

but most incredible of all are the two huge structures that

dominate the room from either side.

Pyramids.    Ten feet high.

Vittoria steps in behind him.

Behind them, the plastic rustles, as if drawn by a wind, and as

Langdon turns, he hears, faintly, a DOOR CLOSING far away.

He turns back, eyes drawn to the floor.    There is a large oval

medallion there, with a skeleton carved into it.    It's slightly

off center, raised.    As if it's been opened recently, and

hurriedly replaced.

IN THE DEMON'S HOLE,

we're looking up now as the medallion GRINDS to the side.     Faces

peer down at us -- Langdon, Vittoria, Olivetti, and Vincenzo. They

recoil from a stench.

UP TOP,

Langdon squints, trying to see inside.

Vincenzo hands him one.    Langdon shines it down into the crypt.

There are shapes, but thirty feet down and hard to make out.

There's one in particular, in the darkness, seems too short to be

a person, but it's moving slightly.

He reaches down, rattles the ladder that leans against the wall of

the crypt.    Takes a deep breath, looks at the others.

IN THE DEMON'S HOLE,

Langdon reaches the bottom, still shining the light at the figure

in the distance.    It's brighter here, he can see it's flesh-

colored, but still indistinct.    He takes a step toward it --

-- and something CRUNCHES under his feet.

He shines the light down.    He's standing on a pile of human skulls

He takes two more steps, closer to the swaying figure on the other

side of the crypt.    He can now clearly see a man's naked back.

It's a human figure.     As Langdon draws close, he sees the source

of the movement --- rats, gnawing at the dead body.

They scurry away as Langdon comes around the front, and we pull

back to see what he sees.

It's Cardinal Lamasse.

He's been buried in the earthen floor of the crypt up to his waist

his jaw broken, his mouth crammed full of dirt.

But that's not the worst of it.    Langdon GAGS as he sees the

blackened word that has been branded into the red flesh of the

Cardinal's chest.    It's an ambigram, like we've seen before, but

this time it says --

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL      DAY

Cardinal Mortati sits regally at the main altar at the front of

the Sistine Chapel as the electors, one by one, cast their votes

in the traditional manner.

An AFRICAN CARDINAL at the front of the line kneels before him.

The African Cardinal stands, holds his ballot over his head, t

lowers the ballot to the altar, where a plate sits atop a large

chalice.

He places the ballot on the plate, then picks up the plate and

uses it to drop the ballot in the chalice.    He then replaces the

plate over the chalice, bows to the cross, and heads for his seat.

The next cardinal steps up to repeat the process.

A SHORT TIME LATER, A DISSOLVE,

and the line is gone.    Mortati holds the chalice with all the

votes.    He shakes it, chooses one---

-- and reads an unfamiliar name.

He makes a note in a ledger, then raises a threaded needle and

pierces the ballot through the word "Eligo," sliding the ballot on

the thread.

A SHORT TIME LATER,   ANOTHER DISSOLVE,

and there are a hundred and sixty-one ballots on the thread,

Mortati looks up from his ledger and speaks to the room.

He takes He thread carrying all the ballots and ties the ends

together to create a ring.

He lays the ring of ballots on a silver tray.     Dusts the tray

heavily with a yellowish powder.

A DOOR OPENS

on a small incinerator. The ring of ballots is hurled inside and

bursts immediately into flame.

A dark, brackish smoke billows up from the burning ballots, and we

follow the smoke up, up, into the chimney --

EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE         DUSK

--- and to the roof of the Sistine Chapel, where the black iUPke

puffs out into the early evening sky.

Below, a CROWD OF THOUSANDS GROANS in disappointment as the

message is sent --- no new pope yet.

But while they are all watching the smoke, we turn our attention?

to the opposite direction, to the east, across Rome, to where ---

EXT     PIAZZA DEL POPOLO        DUSK

--- those black Alfa Romeos, four this time, glide silently to a

halt outside the church where Langdon just found the corpse. Swiss

Guard in black suits pour out of the vehicles and hurry into the

church, trying to attract as little attention as possible.

INT     SANTA MARIA DEL POPOLO          DUSK

The inside of the church is being sealed off as a crime scene.

Rocher, just arriving, takes charge as the plastic is RIPPED off

the Chigi Chapel.

Swiss Guardsmen drop into the demon's hole to remove the body.

Langdon, lost in thought, drifts through the small chapel, studying

the intricate carvings and other artwork.

Rocher passes through his field of vision, livid:

It was more a rhetorical question, but Langdon answers honestly,

still lost in thought, his voice soft.

He drifts toward a statue, of the highest quality white marble,

resting in a niche on the far side, out of the way of the mayhem.

Vittoria joins him.

He steps closer to the statue.    It's of two life-size human

figures, intertwined, one a regal, bearded man, the other a

cherub, floating overhead.

He steps closer, studying it carefully.

His eyes move slowly over the statue, and ours do too, from the

angel's innocent face, down his arm, and to his right hand, which

is outstretched, one finger extended --

-- pointing the way.

EXT     PIAZZA DEL POPOLO        DUSK

Langdon dashes down the stairs outside the church and into the

middle of the piazza.    It's getting dark now, shadows streaking

the square.

He gets his bearings, looks to the southwest, sees nothing but

buildings in the way.

He runs back up the church steps, where Vittoria and Rocher are

just coming outside.    Langdon's mind is racing.

Rocher just stares at him, studying him.

Rocher starts down the steps toward his car.

He looks around, sees the rickety scaffolding outside the church,

and ---

A MOMENT LATER,

--- he climbs into our view, now on the scaffolding.       He's moving

upward, fast, toward ---

EXT     CHURCH ROOF       DUSK

--- the roof of the old church, also undergoing renovation. The

view of Rome is spectacular from up here, and Langdon rushes to

the western wall, looking intently off in that direction.

He sees something that makes him suck in his breath, hears a voice

from behind him ---

--- and turns as Vittoria tosses something small and black up to

him.

A compass.    He catches it, holds it steady, and walks toward the

edge of the roof as the compass needle swivels and settles on SW.

Langdon looks up, following the line of the needle, up over the

rooftops of Rome, to a massive structure in the distance, exactly

in line with the compass needle.

A huge dome on the horizon blots out the setting sun.

ST.   PETER'S BASILICA.

INT      CAR      NIGHT

CLOSE ON a map of Rome, unfolded in the back seat of a racing car

and spread out over Langdon and Vittoria's laps.    Langdon has a

pen and is drawing a line on the map, through --

Night has fallen, and the four Alfa Romeos are now speeding across

Rome.    No sirens, but lots of speed.    Olivetti drives, Rocher

is in the passenger seat.

She looks down, to two television screens mounted into the backs

of the front seats.    Both are tuned to coverage of the papal

selection process, REPORTERS doing stand-ups from the middle of

crowded St. Peter's Square.

We move in on one of the images, then into the image, coming out -

EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE     NIGHT

--- on a television monitor in St. Peter's Square. The Reporter, a

JAPANESE WOMAN, is giving a stand-up report on the progress so

far, gesturing to the chimney over the Sistine Chapel.

The crowd has grown, now four thousand, maybe five. FLASHBULBS

POP.    A few PROTESTERS CHANT.

Almost silently, behind them all, half a dozen black Alfa Romeos

race in, too fast, and come to an abrupt halt.

IN ROCHER'S CAR,

they all get out, trying to avoid causing a panic.

Langdon walks into the square, eyes focused on an object in the

middle.

He looks up, at row after row of statues that ring the square from

atop the oval colonnades.

SHARPSHOOTERS scurry among the statuary, setting themselves up.

In the crowd, Rocher MUTTERS into his radio and to undercover

SWISS GUARD scattered throughout.    The crowd is unaware of them.

Langdon keeps walking, turning in circles, looking above him, to

the tops of the colonnades that border the square.

And indeed there are.    Langdon looks at his watch.      Two

minutes to nine.

And then he freezes.    Staring down, not up.

He takes a step back. There is a fresco carved into the square

beneath his feet, or more accurately --

He takes a step back, to look at the carving, as does Vittoria.

They move through the crowd, pushing people aside, causing a bit

of a ruckus as they try to uncover the elaborate carvings in the

stone of the square.

(IF WE ARE EAGLE-EYED, at this point we will see TWO ROBED MEN,

one helping the other, who carries a cross, as they pass through

the crowd behind Langdon.)

Remembering something, Langdon rushes forward, toward the center

of the square, uncharacteristically brusque with the crowd,

shoving his way through now.

He draws close to one carving in particular, slows to a stop, and

stares down at it, eyes wide.

It's a carving of an angel's face, cheeks billowing outward as it

blows a gust of wind, symbolized by five vertical streaks.    Its

title is ---

So this is it, but now what?    They look around frantically,

scanning the crowd.    So does Rocher, so does Olivetti.    The

BELLS of St. Peter's start to TOLL the hour.

NEARBY,

a LITTLE GIRL dances with a doll.      Happily unaware of what's

going on.

ELSEWHERE,

some PROTESTERS tangle.      Some believe one thing, others don't.

Swiss Guard and Vatican Police race in to break it up. But there's

no bloodshed.

CLOSE TO THAT,

a ROBED MAN carrying a small wooden cross falls to the ground.

Somebody near him SCREAMS.

NEARBY,

the Little Girl is jostled by a HOMELESS MAN, drops her doll.

THE ROBED MAN

is helped to his feet by the Police.      He's fine.   He wanders

away, holding his cross high.

And as he passes us, we catch just a glimpse of his face ---

--and recognize Mr. Gray.

THE LITTLE GIRL

bends down, picks up her doll, and sees --

-- IT'S COVERED IN BLOOD.

She looks down at the ground, sees a trail of blood, follows it

with her eyes to where ---

-- the Homeless Man, dressed in torn rags, leans against a

fountain, gasping for breath.

ACROSS THE CROWD,

Vittoria and Langdon hear the SCREAMS.    They're closest, and

they're at the fountain in just a few seconds.

Langdon drops to his knees, turns the Homeless Man over.

Through the man's torn shirt, he can see a black and red brand

burned into his chest.

Three letters, ornate script, reading the same front to back:

Vittoria grabs his arm,   feels for a pulse.

But the dying Cardinal is gasping for breath, his mouth opening

and closing like a fish on a dock.

She bends down, arches his neck, closes her mouth over his, and

blows air into his lungs.

Immediately, a fog of red mist BILLOWS from two puncture holes in

the man's chest, covering Langdon in blood --- his face, his

clothes.

Langdon recoils in horror, overcome, completely out of his depth.

Rocher arrives, as does Olivetti, as do a DOZEN MORE SWISS GUARD

and VATICAN POLICE.    Rocher looks around, defeated and enraged,

as the Cardinal expires and the Crowd panics, fleeing in all

directions.

He presses his radio to his lips and keys the mic.

INT     BATHROOM      NIGHT

Blood and water swirl down a drain. Langdon looks up from the

sink, water rushing from his face. He dries himself, looks in the

mirror.    He holds up his hands. They're shaking.

He's standing in a lavish marble bathroom, now cleaned up and

changed into black pants and a black long-sleeved shirt.    No

Roman collar, they don't just give you those, but clearly the

clothes of a priest.    He steps out of the bathroom and into ---

INT     PAPAL OFFICE     NIGHT

-- the papal office, where the Camerlengo, Rocher, Olivetti, and

Vittoria are gathered again, as are HALF A DOZEN other security

officers.     It's crowded, busy, little knots of jurisdictional

arguments and competing theories around the room.

The Camerlengo, at his desk, is stunned, speaking to Olivetti.

Langdon edges close enough to hear, but not too close.

There is silence for a moment.      Rocher looks up.    Looks away.

Rocher spins on her, livid.

Father Simeon, Cardinal Mortati's aide, steps forward.

The Camerlengo just stares at him, a power struggle. Which he is

going to lose.

Langdon refers to a map spread out on the desk.

While he talks, an AIDE in a business suit is ushered quietly in

the door by a Swiss Guardsman.    He's carrying a satchel.

Vittoria recognizes him, and he goes to her.

Langdon looks to Vittoria -- you coming? She looks up from a table,

where she's opened the satchel brought in by the Aide. She holds

two leather-bound books in her hand.

The group starts to break up, half of them headed for the doors.

As Langdon rolls up the map on the desk, the Camerlengo notices

his black clothes for the first time.

Langdon manages a sliver of a smile, starting to like this guy.

EXT     ST.   PETER'S SQUARE     NIGHT

St. Peter's has been cleared out, the throng moved to barricades

at its edges so that the crime scene can be properly investigated.

Flashbulbs POP everywhere.

The row of TV REPORTERS is nearly shoulder to shoulder, and we

move along them --- first up is an ITALIAN REPORTER:

Still moving, we pass a CHINESE REPORTER.

Still moving,   a FRENCH REPORTER.

Still moving, a BBC REPORTER,    in English.

And finally, an AMERICAN.

The American Reporter looks confused, somebody's talking to her in

her earpiece.

And almost as one, the row of TV cameras all swing away from the

crime scene in the square and up, to the Sistine Chapel chimney,

where there is indeed a thick cloud --

--- of black smoke.    Still no new pope, and the subject is

effectively changed.

INT     VATICAN ARCHIVES      NIGHT

Langdon and Lt. Chartrand, the young Swiss Guardsman, walk quickly

down the row of hermetically sealed vaults in the Vatican

Archives.

Langdon's leading, looking at the names on the outsides of each of

the individual vaults.

He stops, pointing up at a sign on the end of one of the vaults --

BANCO VATICANO.

He takes one last breath of oxygen-rich air, pushes through the

revolving door --

INT     VAULT     NIGHT

--- and comes through the other side, eyes scanning the place.    A

moment later, Chartrand follows him through the door.     Langdon

looks at him --- you're coming in too?

MOVING FAST ALONG THE LEATHER-BOUND VOLUMES, Langdon searches the

place as fast as he can.

BAM!

A book drops onto a table, pages flip by, Langdon studies it,

SLAMS it shut.

BAM! BAM! Two more books, flipped open, compared, pages rifled,

nothing.

BACK IN THE STACKS,

his hand finds a five-inch thick ledger marked "Bernini."

ON A TABLE,

it SMACKS down and opens to the first page. Langdon sits, begins

turning the pages, one by one.

LOOKING AT THE PAGE,

his vision momentarily blurs.         He rubs his eyes, it clears

again.

He looks up, at a vent over the doorway. Thin ribbons flutter in

the breeze of the minimal oxygen that's being pumped in.

He goes back to work.   Chartrand watches him.

INT     PAPAL OFFICE     NIGHT

Looking out the window of the papal office, we see the barricades

removed from the edges of St. Peter's Square.    The crowds

return.

Pulling back, we see the Camerlengo looking out at them, thinking,

troubled.    There are still half a dozen Security Officials in

the papal office, but the Camerlengo turns and looks at Vittoria,

working alone at a desk on the far side of the office.

AT THE DESK,

Vittoria pores over the journals sent from Geneva.    Sensing

something, she looks up.    The Camerlengo is standing over her.

He speaks quietly.

The Camerlengo looks over his shoulder, to make sure their

conversation is private.

He looks around the room once more.          Then back to her?

He thinks for a long moment, then --

--- turns and leaves the room.         She makes sure no one's looking,

then follows him out.

She leaves the journals behind.

INT     VATICAN ARCHIVES     NIGHT

CLOSE ON the Bernini ledger, which Langdon is now almost halfway

through.    He tiyrns a page, scans the list of items written

there, then moves on to the next.

He blinks, his vision blurring again. He looks over at Chartrand,

who's suffering even worse, panting for air, hands on his knees.

Chartrand half-stumbles into a chair on the opposite side of the

table.    Langdon goes back to what he was doing, flipping a page--

--- and then immediately flipping it back.

There is a hand-written notation alongside one of the entries.

Chartrand leans over the ledger, squinting hard, trying to focus.

Chartrand, really suffering for air, can't follow it.

Langdon flips the page back, to a photograph of the sculpture in

question.

THE STATUE

is of a woman, seemingly in the throes of ecstasy, while an angel

hovering over her holds a spear aloft.

Langdon raises an eyebrow.

The word "Seraphim" jumps up from the page, words in quotes after

it -- "Seraphim, meaning 'the fiery one...'"

More words pop out at us -- "His great golden spear... filled with

fire..."

Still more -- "woman inflamed by passion's fire..."

And now a close-up of her enraptured face.

And now three things happen in quick succession:

-- Langdon SLAMS the ledger shut,

-- the ribbons on the air vent fall as the oxygen into the vault is

cut off, and

-- one by one, ALL THE LIGHTS IN THE ARCHIVES GO OUT.

Total silence for a moment.

Langdon and Chartrand look at each other in the darkness.

INT     ST.   PETER'S BASILICA          NIGHT

The Camerlengo, flanked by two Swiss Guardsmen, escorts Vittoria

rapidly across the deserted floor of St. Peter's Basilica.

They circle past a pillar and she sees an orange glow up ahead,

seeming to emanate from beneath the floor in the center of the

basilica.

As they draw closer, she sees it's the entrance to a sumptuous

underground chamber, surrounded by scores of glowing oil lamps.

The Camerlengo starts down a winding stairway, rimmed by the

lamps,

ON THE STAIRCASE,

they descend, lit by the spectral glow of the oil lamps.

He stops at the bottom of the stairs and looks up at her.

Vittoria, stunned, realizes who he's talking about.

INT     VATICAN ARCHIVES       NIGHT

KA-CHUNG! Emergency lights switch on in the Vatican Archives,

casting a weird, reddish glow over everything.

But the ribbons at the oxygen panel remain limp.

Below, Langdon pushes, again and again, on the deadened exit

button, trying to activate the doors.    Nothing doing.

He's weak, weaving, barely on his feet.

Chartrand's already slumped against a wall, his radio in hand,

keying it over and over again, but getting only static.

Chartrand gestures weakly around the room.

Langdon blinks, his vision becoming seriously impaired. He holds

his eyes closed for a moment, opens them, it's not much better.

Langdon looks at the glass wall on the far side of the vault. Then

at the row of bookcases.    Gets an idea.

He goes to the last bookcase, which is about six feet from the

glass wall. He hoists himself up on the shelf of the bookcase

opposite it, wedges himself in.

And pushes with one leg.      The giant bookcase teeters, but just

barely.

Langdon hoists himself further up, gets both legs up against the

bookshelf.

Pushes again -- more movement this time.

Now he puts everything he has into it, straining like hell.    The

bookcase starts to tip, goes just past the point of no return,

starts to fall, gloriously headed straight for the glass wall,

which it SLAMS into with enormous power and --

--- stops.

Leaning against the wall.     Forget cracks, there's not even a

scratch.

Langdon CURSES under his breath, looks around for another idea.

He hears a soft THUD from the other side of the room, sees

Chartrand has slumped over, unconscious.

But his jacket has fallen open, revealing the sidearm he carries

in a shoulder holster.

LANGDON'S HAND

slips the gun out of the holster and hefts it.     Safe bet he's

never held one of these before.

He staggers over toward the glass wall, raises the gun, and pulls

the trigger.    Nothing happens.    Trigger doesn't even move.

After a moment of oxygen-poor thinking, he figures out how to

CLICK off the safety.    Tries again.

(Pow.)

The sound of the shot is barely audible to Langdon.     His brain's

going fast.

If he was hoping to bring the whole wall down, he failed, but

there's a faint HISSING sound coming from the bullethole, and he

goes to it and takes a deep breath of air from the outside.

He stands back, his brain clearing momentarily.

Seized by an idea, he looks up at the wall, at its four corners,

and at the tiny web of cracks radiating out from the hole he just

made in the center.

He raises the gun again and fires off FOUR SHOTS in quick

succession.    They're in an odd pattern-- upper left corner, upper

right, not quite as high, lower middle-left, and the very lower

right corner.

Now there are four new holes, each HISSING slightly, and the first

hole, in the center.

Shaking his head once more to clear it, Langdon steps forward to

the glass wall, but instead of barreling against it or throwing a

chair, he simply raises one hand, places it flat over the first

hole he made, the one in the center of the glass wall ---

Almost immediately, a SHARP SOUND comes from the hole beneath his

hand and a jagged crack leaps out from the first hole, shooting up

to connect with the hole in the upper left corner.

He presses just a touch harder and a SECOND CRACK starts,

shooting down to the lower right.    Then a third, and a fourth,

the glass is cracking like ice in springtime, all four extremities

connecting with the central hole, and with a huge GROANING SOUND -

-

-- the entire glass wall falls to pieces at his feet.

Air RUSHES into the vault.

And, wouldn't you know it, the power comes back on in the Archives.

INT     VATICAN GROTTOES      NIGHT

Vittoria, the Camerlengo, and the two Swiss Guard reach the

entrance to the Holy Vatican Grottoes just as --

-- their power goes out.

Two flashlights CLICK on, and the Guardsmen lead the way in.   On

both sides, hollow niches line the walls.    Recessed in the

alcoves, as far as the flashlights let them see, the hulking

shadows of sarcophagi loom.

On top of each tomb are life-sized marble carvings of each Pope,

shown in death and wearing full papal vestments, arms folded

across their chests.

He steps up his pace, taking the lead, knows exactly where he's

going.    The others fall behind, as everyone slowly realizes what

he intends to do.    And they're not at all sure they're up for

it.

AT THE LATE POPE'S SARCOPHAGUS,

the Camerlengo closes the last few feet alone. He knees down in

front of the bright marble carving, a likeness of the late Pope.

He WHISPERS.

BEHIND HIM,

the others watch as he finishes his private prayer, stands, and

turns to them.

Nobody moves.      Just stares at him.

A moment of silence, and then --

-- they step forward.    Set their flashlights on the floor.

And step to the tomb.    Bracing their hands against the marble

covering near the head of the tomb, they plant their feet and

push.

It doesn't move.

They push harder.

Vittoria and the Camerlengo join them.

With an almost primal GROWL of stone on stone, the lid slides,

rotating off the top of the casket and coming to rest at an angle.

The Camerlengo picks up a flashlight and shines it in the crypt.

Vittoria leans forward.

The light creeps up the Pope's body, over his burial vestments,

past his folded hands, and finally to his face.

His cheeks have collapsed, the Pope's mouth gapes wide      --

-- and his tongue is black as death.

EXT     VATICAN ARCHIVES      NIGHT

The face of Langdon's Mickey Mouse watch is smeared with blood

from a cut on his hand, but we can still read the time.

It's 9:41.

Langdon and Chartrand stagger down the front steps of the Vatican

Archives, where they're immediately met by three Vatican Police

cars.    Olivetti leaps out of one and meets them at the base of

the steps, holding his hands up in defense almost before Langdon

can lay into him.

Langdon jumps in the back seat of the car with Olivetti, and they

SQUEAL away from the Archives.

IN THE CAR,

they continue as the DRIVER tears through the streets of Rome.

Langdon looks at him evenly, sees in Olivetti's eyes that they may

be thinking the same thing.

Olivetti doesn't answer.     But he's thinking about it.

Olivetti looks at him   -- what are you, an idiot?

INT     PAPAL OFFICE      NIGHT

Vittoria, escorted by the two Swiss Guardsmen from the grottoes,

returns to the papal office.

She goes to the desk where she was sitting earlier, to resume her

examination of the journals.

But the desk is bare.

The Guardsmen look at her blankly.

INT      APOSTOLIC PALACE - GREAT STAIRCASE        NIGHT

The Camerlengo, in deep meditation, slowly descends the stairs

that lead to the Sistine Chapel.

At the bottom, Four Swiss Guard (in traditional garb) guard the

locked doors.

The Camerlengo reaches them.    Hesitates.      Looks heavenward for

one last word of encouragement, and then --

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

There is an audible GASP from the assembled cardinals as the heavy

locks CLUNK open, the chains RATTLE away, and the main doors of

the Sistine Chapel sweep open.

The Camerlengo walks in, a stark presence in his black cassock

amid the sea of red robes. Cardinal Mortati steps from behind the

altar to meet him.

EXT      ROME - STREET      NIGHT

Olivetti's Alfa Romeo races through the streets of Rome, trailed

by three other cars.

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

The Camerlengo has just passed on the shocking news, and the

whispered word "murder" can be heard in several languages.

Even Mortati is shaken.   The Camerlengo speaks to the Cardinals.

He strides quickly up the steps of the altar to address the group

-- again, to the shock and surprise of this most conservative and

rule-bound group.

But no one stops him.

INT      OLIVETTI'S CAR      NIGHT

CLOSE ON the dashboard clock in Olivetti's car, which now reads

8:57.    Langdon looks up from it, staring intently through the

windshield.

On the horizon, he sees a faint orange glow.

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

The Camerlengo continues, and the cardinals are listening.

INT      OLIVETTI'S CAR      NIGHT

Through the windshield of Olivetti's car, we see that orange glow,

closer now.    It's a building on fire.

INT      SISTINE CHAPEL      NIGHT

The Camerlengo continues, growing passionate.

EXT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA       NIGHT

The police cars come to an abrupt stop in front of the Church of

Santa Maria della Vittoria.    Flames glow like evil eyes through

the stained-glass windows fifty feet above the ground.

A small CROWD has gathered, stabbing at their cell phones.    A

SIREN WAILS in the distance.

INT      SISTINE CHAPEL      NIGHT

Mortati's Aide, Father Simeon, takes advantage of the open Sistine

Chapel doors and slips inside.    He takes a place just behind

Mortati as the Camerlengo goes on.

EXT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA       NIGHT

With three sharp CRACKS, Olivetti fires into the lock in the front

door of the church.    He KICKS it open --

-- and flame RIPS out into the night air.

INT      SISTINE CHAPEL      NIGHT

The Camerlengo speaks faster now:

INT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA       NIGHT

Olivetti, Langdon, and four other VATICAN POLICE make their way

into the burning church.    There is a massive pile of church pews

in the center aisle, burning wildly.

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

The Camerlengo's wrapping up:

INT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA       NIGHT

In the burning church, two heavy incensor cables run from the

walls of the church and rise above the burning pews at an angle,

strung tightly to a center point.    Langdon follows the wires up

with his eyes --

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

INT     BURNING CHURCH       NIGHT

flames, where --

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

INT      BURNING CHURCH     NIGHT

flames.

A word is branded into the center of his bared chest:

Vatican Police, led by Olivetti and Vincenzo, race into the

building and draw their weapons.    Olivetti SHOUTS to them in

Italian, looking for a way to cut down the agonized cardinal.

Langdon races toward the pyre, but is repelled by a wall of heat

ten feet away.

The Cardinal SCREAMS, and Langdon looks to the sides, following

the cables that reach to the walls.

One of the Vatican Cops ducks

INTO THE LEFT SIDE AISLE,

which is lit only by the wild orange flames.    He creeps forward,

gun in front of him, toward a fire extinguisher mounted on the

wall.

He reaches for it --

-- but a HAND reaches for him from behind, he's pulled off his

feet and --

IN THE MAIN AISLE,

Olivetti and Vincenzo whirl as TWO GUNSHOTS come from the darkened

side aisle.    They race toward it.

AT THE BONFIRE,

Langdon SHOUTS to two more Vatican Cops, pointing upward.

He's pointing at a cleat, maybe ten feet up on the wall, where the

right guide wire is attached.

Vatican Cops 2 & 3 drag a half-burned pew out of the fire and pull

it underneath, leaning it against the wall for greater height,

Langdon starts to climb it, to uncleat the wire.

IN THE DARKENED LEFT AISLE

Olivetti creeps forward, gun at the ready, Vincenzo close behind

him.

They see a form on the floor in front of them and Olivetti bends

down -- it's the first Vatican Policeman.

Dead in a pool of his own blood.

Vincenzo, standing behind Olivetti, looks down, horrified, and in

that moment of distraction, a figure creeps up behind him --

-- and twists his head 180 degrees with one smooth motion.

Olivetti whirls, but his gun comes around a split-second slower

than he does and in that split-second a shadow falls over him,

something SLASHES through the air and --

IN THE MAIN AISLE,

Langdon struggles to climb the pew that's leaned against the wall

as Vatican Cop 4 finds a long-handled candle snuffer and races

toward the edge of the fire with it.

Blinking back the intense heat, he manages to hook the Cardinals

manacled foot with it, he turns to Langdon--

loose the wire from its cleat, holding tightly to it so as not to

let the Cardinal go into free-fall.

But the pew on which he's balanced starts to wobble, then- --

-- BLAM!    BLAM!

Two gunshots THUD into the chests of Vatican Cops 2 & 3, who were

supporting the pew.    They fall, the pew tips --

-- and Langdon,   falling   --

-- loses his grip on the chain.

The Cardinal falls toward the flames. Vatican Cop 4 tries to pull

him to safety, but doesn't have enough of WHIRRS through the

pulley until it reaches its the Cardinal to an abrupt stop, six

feet lower

-- and directly in the middle of the bonfire.

His SHRIEK of agony echoes through the burning church.

Langdon SLAMS to the floor just at the edge of the burning church

pews, maybe CRACKING a rib on the hard floor of the church.

A FIGURE steps out of the shadows, looming over him, Langdon looks

up, expecting a gunshot, but instead --

clutching his slit throat in his last moments of life.

NEARBY,

Vatican Cop 4 is desperately trying to pull the Cardinal from the

flames, the end of the candle-snuffer is now hooked around the

Cardinal's foot, he pulls him closer, reaches out, can almost grab

his ankle --

drawing and dropping his gun in the process, losing his grip on

the long-handled pole as well.

On the ground, bleeding, he sees his gun, just a foot away from

his hand.

He reaches for it.

And a foot steps on his wrist, BREAKING it.

Mr. Gray stands over him,     implacable.

FROM A DISTANCE,

we see Mr. Gray fire two shots into the ground where Cop 4 is

lying.

Then he turns toward us.

NEARBY,

Langdon, still on the ground, looks up at the sound of the shots.

Through the burning church pews he can see Mr. Gray, starting

toward him.

Langdon crawls, on all fours, through the outskirts of the

bonfire, toward a recessed part of the wall ten or fifteen feet

away.

Mr. Gray steps up behind him, raises his gun           --

the burning church and are making their way down the center aisle,

straight toward him.

Mr. Gray raises his left (non-gun holding) hand, displaying a

leather billfold with a badge in it.

Recognizing the ID, the two Cops glance away for a second, to

search the rest of the church --

-- and Mr. Gray BLASTS two shots into each of them.

They drop, dead, but one of them squeezes off a single round

before falling.

Mr. Gray looks down, at his right shoulder, where a dark red stain

is spreading on his suit.    He touches it, more annoyed than

anything.

UNDERNEATH THE BURNING PEWS,

Langdon has crawled as close as he dares to the raging fire, and

the sleeve of his shirt is ablaze.    He rolls out the other side

of the embers, stamping out the flames, gets to his feet, and

takes off running.

Mr. Gray pursues, only slowing his gait slightly to DOUBLE TAP two

shots into the head of a dying Vatican Cop.

ACROSS THE CHURCH,

Langdon hurls himself over a balustrade and into a chapel on the

far side of the church.    Bullets SHATTER the glass of an

elevated crypt, three feet off the floor.    (Inside is a superbly

detailed wax statue of a saint in death.)

Langdon dives under it and crawls backwards, staring in horror at

Mr. Gray's feet as they approach the chapel from across the

church.

Langdon's back THUDS into a wall.

Dead end.

But there's an old wooden grating in the wall.   He turns, KICKS

it with both feet.

The grating CRUNCHES into pieces, revealing a narrow crawlspace

IN THE CRAWL SPACE,

Langdon army-crawls through it.

Mr. Gray's face appears in the entry to the crypt.    He pauses to

change clips on his handgun --

-- the floor beneath Langdon abruptly runs out   --

-- Mr. Gray raises his gun     --

where he was, not where he is.

UNDERGROUND,

Langdon CRUNCHES to a hard landing on a subterranean stone floor,

rolls over, and sees Mr. Gray above him, now pointing down.

But there's another crawl space, and Langdon scurries into it.

IN THE SECOND CRAWL SPACE,

it's hopelessly dark, an even tighter space than the last one,

filled with cobwebs that Langdon blindly claws his way through.

He hits another hole in the floor, falls a second time ---

INTO THE CATACOMB,

nearly-black bottom of the church's underground warren of hiding

places.

He looks up.    He's ten feet from the nearest handhold, only a

fool would follow him down here

BACK UP IN THE BURNING CHURCH,

and leaves the chapel.

The waxen face of the carving in the sarcophagus melts in the

intense heat of the out-of-control fire.

INT      SISTINE CHAPEL - SALON        NIGHT

In the salon outside the Sistine Chapel, the Camerlengo waits

alone.    From inside can be heard the sound of VOICES in debate.

Finally, the big doors open and Cardinal Mortati emerges, goes to

him.

He puts a hand on the Camerlengo's shoulder.

The Camerlengo closes his eyes    -- this is a terrible, terrible

mistake.

He gestures to the open doors to the Sistine Chapel, and the

assembled cardinals within.

The Camerlengo looks at him for a long moment, then turns and

wa1ks away.

Father Simeon, who had been lurking in the open doorway to the

chapel, now glides up beside him and touches Mortati's arm.

He trails off, gestures vaguely.

Mortati raises an eyebrow, seeing where this is going.

Mortati looks at him for a moment, then looks back, over his

shoulder, where a small knot of Cardinals, who have clearly

discussed this, are looking at him in confirmation.

INT     OFFICE OF THE SWISS GUARD       NIGHT

CLOSE ON a handwritten page, half-filled with mathematical

computations; the other half with a scratchy handwritten prose.

(IF WE'RE EAGLE-EYED, we'll notice the phrase we move past just as

we cut into the scene is "may His will be done," the same phrase

we just heard Mortati utter.)

Commandante Rocher is at his desk, Vittoria's leather-bound

journals on the desk in front of him.    He's studying them

carefully, and seems troubled by what he reads.

Through the glass walls of his office, we can see a commotion in

the still-chaotic Swiss Guard headquarters.    Someone is walking

toward us, briskly, a WOMAN'S VOICE complaining loudly in Italian.

Rocher calmly places the journals on top of the screen of the

video monitor inlaid in his desk, the one we saw earlier, with a

keyhole where a power switch should be.

He pushes a button and the monitor rotates shut, into an inlaid

panel in the desk's surface.    It closes just after --

-- Vittoria arrives in the doorway, livid.

She looks at him, then down at the desk, where the outline of the

hidden panel is visible in the veneer of the wood.

He stresses her title, as if it offends

EXT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA        NIGHT

The burning church, now mostly extinguished.    But a LARGE CROWD

has gathered, along with a dozen police and fire vehicles.

INT     SANTA MARIA DELLA VITTORIA        NIGHT

As FIREMEN put out the last of the flames (not using water, but

Halon gas, which creates no steam), a metallic TAPPING sound comes

from somewhere.

One of the Firemen approaches another, gets his attention   -- stop

what you're doing and listen.

They shut down a hose and stop, listening.

There it is again.    They SHOUT in Italian to the others, now

everybody shuts down their hoses and listens.

The metallic TAPPING echoes in the smoldering church.

They walk toward it -- it's coming from an oval plate in the

floor, like a manhole cover, heavy and carved.   We've seen one

of these before, it leads to a Demon's Hole.

The TAPPING is louder now, rhythmic.    Somebody's down there.

Crowbars are produced, the cover of the Demon's Hole is pried off

and shoved aside, revealing --

rock in one hand as he clings precariously to the walls he has

climbed.

Strong hands reach down, haul him to his feet      --

AT THE FRONT OF THE CHURCH,

church, coming to a stop in front of --

-- Bernini's Ecstasy of St. Teresa.

The statue he came here to find.    Now, as the Italian-speaking

police and firemen work around him, Langdon moves, as if in his

own world.    He looks to the statue, repeating fragments of the

poem he has by now memorized:

Directly over the recumbent saint, against a backdrop of gilded

flame, hovers Bernini's angel.    The angel's hand clutches a

pointed spear of fire.

Langdon's eyes follow the direction of the shaft, arcing toward

the right side of the church.

A ROMAN POLICEMAN, a member of the Carbinieri, comes up to

Langdon, discussing him in Italian with TWO OTHER COPS as he

approaches.

Langdon ignores him, pointing at the wall instead.

A MOMENT LATER,

as if by command, a map CRINKLES out on the floor of the church.

It's detailed, a fire department map, and Langdon drops down on

all fours, studying it.

Langdon whips a glance over at the angel, gets bearings, and

rotates the map to match.

His finger travels over the map and      --

CLOSE ON THE MAP,

we watch as his finger crosses church after church after church,

tiny black boxes with crosses in them.    There must be two dozen.

He sits back for a moment.

The Roman Cop bends down next to him.          Treats him like a crazy

person.

The Cop points to a spot at the top center of the map.

The Cop points to a spot at the bottom center.

Langdon's eyes widen, he grabs the Cop by the lapels       --

-- and pulls a pen from the man's pocket.

He turns back to the map and draws a straight line, from north to

south, connecting the two churches the Cop just pointed to.

He puts the pen on a point on the eastern side of the map.

He draws a line straight across the map, to the west, sucking in

his breath as he realizes something.

Now he stands, slowly, and as he stands, we rise up, to get a

birds-eye view of the map on the floor.

On which he has drawn a perfect cross.

The Cop, who has no clue what he's talking about, gets a call on

his radio and turns away to take it.

He drops to his knees again, and traces the horizontal line to

where it stops on the western side of the city, exactly as far

from the center line as was the church on the eastern side.

As Langdon peers down, we see the line on the map comes to a stop

in the center of a place called Piazza Navona, and as we go in

closer on the map, an odd-shaped object in the middle of the

Piazza starts to move, to ripple, right there on the map, and we

hear the sound of running water as it slowly dissolves to --

EXT      PIAZZA NAVONA        NIGHT

Piazza Navona.

There is a black van parked beside the fountain, and we drift over

toward it.    Passing through the passenger window, we go inside

to find --

shirt open, engaged in battlefield surgery on his injured right

shoulder.    Using a long-handled tweezers, he digs into his own

flesh, gets a hold of the bullet that pierced him, and tosses it

onto the metal floor of the van with a TING.

It lands beside a lumpy tarp, and as metal hits metal, the tarp

jumps.

There's a human being in there.       Mr. Gray speaks to the lump.

We pan off him quickly and look out the driver's window, up at a

clock tower on the far side of the plaza.

It's sixteen minutes to eleven.

EXT     BURNING CHURCH        NIGHT

Langdon hurries down the steps of the still-smoldering church,

followed closely by the Roman Cop and TWO OTHER COPS.

He realizes he spoke too loudly, and there is quite a crowd

assembled outside the smoking church.    Langdon lowers his voice

and presses in.

The Cop looks at him, thinking, confers with another Cop in rapid

Italian.    Langdon checks his watch.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE         NIGHT

St. Peter's Square is even more crowded than before.    Another

move down the row of international television reporters, but this

one's about twice as fast as the last one.    (Anybody not

speaking English is subtitled.)

Moving on, to an Asian Reporter:

To a Brazilian:

To an American:

And to a French Woman:

INT     OFFICE OF THE POPE         NIGHT

In the papal office, the Camerlengo sits, alone, in front of the

fireplace, staring into the flames, thinking.

Behind him, a small knot of Swiss Guard debate their next move in

Italian.    He speaks softly to them, in Italian, subtitled.

The Guardsmen are uncomfortable with that idea.

They just look at him.   You're the boss.

They get out.    He stares into the flames.

EXT      PIAZZA NAVONA      NIGHT

Piazza Navona is lightly peopled on this soft summer night with so

much attention directed toward the Vatican.

The hood of a car glides into view, nearly silent, on the far side

of the fountain.    Langdon and the two Roman Cops step out and

survey the area.

Langdon looks to the fountain.    Its central core is twenty feet

tall, a rugged mountain of marble with caves and grottoes through

which water churns.    Atop it stands an obelisk that climbs

another forty feet.

But there's no angel anywhere.      He turns to the first Roman Cop.

But the Cop stops mid-sentence as he notices the black van parked

on the far side of the fountain.

Silently, the Cops gesture to each other to go opposite ways

around the fountain, and to Langdon to stay where he is.

Langdon, frustrated but no action hero, watches them as they

slowly encircle the van.

AT THE DRIVER'S SIDE,

the First Cop approaches the Driver's Window, sees Mr. Gray

sitting implacably behind the wheel.    He taps lightly with a

knuckle, his drawn gun at his side, just out of view.

Mr. Gray opens the window.

The Roman Cop looks down, ever so briefly, at a small spreading

bloodstain on Mr. Gray's shirt.    When he looks back up --

-- there is a silenced pistol pointing directly at him.

PHOOM.

He takes a bullet in the forehead, slumps forward against the

window, and --

FROM A DISTANCE,

we see his body pulled rapidly into the van through the driver's

window.    Whole thing took about three seconds.    DINERS at an

outdoor cafe don't even notice.

FROM LANGDON'S POINT OF VIEW,

on the other side of the fountain, the van rocks slightly, but he

can't see anything out of the ordinary.

He turns, looks to the Second Cop, who is just now approaching

from the rear of the van.

WITH THE SECOND COP,

this one's got his gun in front of him, he's ready for anything.

We creep around the back of the van with him, and just as he comes

around to where he can see the driver's side --

quick exchange in Italian:

PHOOM.

Another bullet, another slumping Cop, and

FROM LANGDON'S POINT OF VIEW,

the van rocks again, but he can't see anything more detailed than

that.    All he knows is the two cops aren't coming out from the

other side of the van, something is going on --

-- and the bell in the clock tower starts to BONG.

EVEN UNARMED,   LANGDON STARTS TO MOVE FORWARD,   JUST AS   --

-- the sliding door on the fountain side of the van SLAMS open

and with manacled hands and feet.    He thrashes against the iron

links, but the chains are too heavy.    One of the links bisects

his mouth like a horse's bit, stifling his cries for help.    Mr.

Gray hovers over him.

Langdon GASPS   --

-- and Mr. Gray shoves the bound figure roughly out of the van.

The Cardinal rolls, falling into the fountain with an enormous

SPLASH.    His weighted body sinks immediately to the bottom.

There is a moment, frozen in time, in which Langdon locks eyes

with Mr. Gray, still hunched in the back of the van as the clock

tower continues to BONG, the only sound we can hear.

Langdon looks at him, then down at the body in the fountain, then

back up at Mr. Gray--

-- who salutes him ---

-- the van door SLAMS shut, and the van tears ass out of there.

Langdon looks from its receding taillights to the idling police

car, its door hanging open, he could jump in and give chase, but

then his eyes go back to the fountain, where the drowning cardinal

must not have much time left, and it's really no decision at all.

Langdon covers the distance to the fountain in two quick strides

and leaps in.

IN THE FOUNTAIN,

the water is waist deep and like ice.    Steady streams of bubbles

rise up from the bottom, churning it.

Langdon reaches the body of the Cardinal, plunges in   --

UNDERWATER,

-- and struggles to get both arms underneath the drowning man.

Through the watery haze, we can see the man's bare chest, branded

with the final ambigram:

Langdon struggles to lift him, but the weight is too much, he can

barely get him a few inches off the bottom of the fountain, much

less all the way to the surface.

Langdon, running out of air, bursts to the surface and   -- ON THE

SURFACE,

-- takes a deep breath, then plunges back   --

UNDERWATER,

-- but he still can't move the Cardinal.

He makes eye contact with the dying man, who seems to be accepting

his fate, maybe even welcoming it.

Langdon changes his grip, strains like hell, and actually gets him

a few inches higher this time, but nowhere close to the air

supply.

But with the new position, his eyes fall on something behind the

cardinal -- a plastic tube, six inches across, streaming bubbles

into the fountain.

He goes back   --

ABOVE THE SURFACE

up to the surface just above the tube.    Air!

Several PASSERS-BY notice the commotion in the fountain as Langdon

dives back under the water.

UNDERWATER,

Langdon drags the body of the Cardinal a few feet across the

bottom of the fountain and RIPS the tube free from its mooring,

pulling it to the Cardinal's mouth.

He clamps it down over the man's lips, and the Cardinal sucks a

few greedy breaths from it.    Enough to keep him alive.

Langdon takes the tube and draws a couple breaths of his own, then

digs his hands back underneath the Cardinal to lift him, but this

time --

-- SIX MORE HANDS come in from all sides.

Several Passers-by have jumped into the fountain to help, and as

they all strain together --

ON THE SURFACE,

lungfuls of air.

He is saved.    Langdon sags against the side of the fountain,

exhausted and freezing, as the others pull the Cardinal's body to

safety.

In the distance, SIRENS.

Langdon, gathering himself, goes to the Cardinal, speaks in rapid

Spanish, subtitled.

Guidera nods weakly as, around them, it seems like everybody

arrives at the fountain -- Carbinieri, Swiss Guard, Vatican

Police, paramedics -- car after car after car.

INT   OFFICE OF THE SWISS GUARD           NIGHT

CLOSE ON a row of weapons in a cabinet in the Office of the Swiss

Commander Rocher selects a pistol and slips it into a harness.

While his back is turned to the room, Lt. Chartrand, the young

Swiss Guardsman who escorted Langdon to the Archives, hurries up

behind him.

He closes and locks the cabinet, heads for the door.     Alone.

He leaves.    Chartrand looks back at the weapons cabinet.     Sees

the space from which the pistol was taken.

EXT     CASTEL SANT'ANGELO         NIGHT

We fly over a bridge, flanked by a dozen angel statues standing

sentinel on either side, leading directly toward--

stone ramparts lit by floodlights.    Soaring swiftly up its

facade, we close in on a mammoth bronze angel standing atop the

citadel.

It points the way, all right, its sword aimed directly downward,

at the castle itself, as if to say you've found it.

DOWN ON THE GROUND,

several Police Cars come to a stop in front of the castle at the

same time.

Langdon climbs out the back of one just as Vittoria gets out of a

car driven by a SWISS GUARDSMAN.

Langdon grabs her, thrilled to see her.

More Cops arrive, and a SECURITY GUARD is pressed into service

behind them, opening the massive front doors to the Castle,

Cops pour into the courtyard of the castle.       Langdon and

Vittoria follow.

EXT     CASTEL SANT'ANGELO - COURTYARD          NIGHT

They dash around the outer bulwark of the Castle.       The courtyard

beneath them looks like a museum of ancient warfare     -- catapults,

stacks of marble cannonballs, fearful contraptions.

As the Cops quickly and silently search every nook, Langdon and

Vittoria follow closely.

They reach the central core of the castle.

Another angel statue, similar to the one atop the citadel, stands

in front of them, its sword held in the same position, pointing

downward at an angle.

Langdon studies it, follows the line of the angel's sword       -- and

sees a gated drive that cuts across the courtyard itself.

A MOMENT LATER,

he and Vittoria are down in the courtyard, at the mouth of the

gated drive. The gate is open and leads to a tunnel, a gaping

entry in the central core.

He gestures to the nearby Cops, who are already on it, and they

all head into the darkened tunnel.

INT   TUNNEL       NIGHT

Police flashlights switch on and their beams bounce crazily off

the walls of the tunnel.

Footsteps CRUNCH as they all press in, Langdon and Vittoria

content to let men with guns lead the way.

It gets darker as they descend, and then, by the echo of their

footfalls, they can tell they've entered --

A LARGE CHAMBER.

More lights are switched on, illuminating the space, which

terminates in three stone walls.

But the Police attention is focused on the black van parked in the

center of the room.

Roman Police snap into action, flashlight beams bounce everywhere,

guns point in every possible window of the van, SHOUTS for

whoever's inside to get the hell out now, now, now.

The doors are flung open.

The van is empty.

Except for the two dead policemen from the Piazza Navona.

The police frenzy reaches an even higher level, URGENT MESSAGES

passed along on radios, half the Cops turning and heading back out

of the tunnel.

Vittoria listens to the orders being given in Italian.

But there's no stopping the Cops, and the only two that remain are

posted outside the van, guarding their fallen colleagues.

Langdon walks forward, to the stone wall at the end of the tunnel,

and feels his way along it.

It joins smoothly with the wall on the right side.

But he waves her off, this has to be it.    He feels all along the

wall toward the other corner, and as he looks down at the ground,

his eyes widen.

Vittoria borrows a flashlight from one of the two remaining Cops,

who now get a CRACKLY MESSAGE on their walkie-talkies and race out

of the tunnel, toward the top, leaving Langdon and Vittoria alone

in the dead end.

She brings the light to Langdon, who shines its beam down at the

floor.    There, in the corner, is a granite block.

He bends down, looks closer.

Sure enough, the block is carved in the shape of a pentagram, with

the tip pointing into the corner.

But as he shines the light, there's something off about the shadow

it casts in the corner of the room.    It creates an odd, dark

slit.

Langdon crouches in the corner and slides his hand along the back

wall of the chamber.    When he reaches the point at which it

should intersect the side wall --

-- his hand disappears.

He flattens himself against the back wall, shining the light

straight at what should be the intersection of the walls.    Half

the flashlight's beam falls on the side wall, and the other half --

INT     SECRET PASSAGE         NIGHT

-- shines through into the secret passage behind the wall.

Langdon draws in his breath and forces himself through the tiny

slit, just wide enough for a determined person to squeeze through.

Vittoria follows.

They look ahead, shining the light. They're in an extremely narrow

passageway.

They start carefully down it, flashlight in front of them.   They

whisper.

She pulls the gun from her waistband.

To their right, they pass half a dozen tiny jail cells, the iron

bars on most eroded away.    Several of the larger cells are

intact, and on the floor of one they see black robes and red

sashes.

They approach an iron doorway in the wall. The door is ajar and

beyond it there is some sort of passage. Langdon squints at two

words above it -- II Passetto.

Vittoria gestures    -- that way?

Langdon shakes his head no.

They round a corner, where the tunnel takes a ninety degree turn

to the right.    At the corner, Langdon notices another

pentagrammal block in the floor.

He bends, studies the direction it's pointing,         feels the wall    --

than the last.    The wall is actually joined at the floor, seems

to open out at the middle (in roughly the shape of a human form

turned sideways), and joins again at the top.

HE TAKES A DEEP BREATH,   SLIPS THROUGH THE GAP        --

-- and finds himself at the base of a set of steep spiral stairs.

Langdon looks up, to the top of the stairs.            There is an

archway, adorned with a tiny carved angel.

Vittoria slips through the gap, sees the carving too.

Langdon, sensing they're close, starts up the stairs.

INT      APOSTOLIC PALACE - HALLWAY            NIGHT

Commander Rocher, eyes dead-set, walks down a hallway in the

Apostolic Palace.    He passes two Swiss Guardsmen with radios.

Rocher keeps walking.

INT   CHURCH OF ILLUMINATION    NIGHT

Langdon and Vittoria creep into the Church of Illumination, and we

get our first good look at it.

The embellishments, though faded, are replete with familiar

symbology.    Pentagram tiles.    Planet frescoes.    Pyramids.

Langdon nods, but he's fascinated by the place.

In the center of the room, there is an open fireplace, its embers

still smoking.    The four Illuminati brands, their faces wiped

clean, have been placed back in a molded velvet case.

Langdon, fascinated, spots an empty slot in the very center of the

case, surrounded by the four used brands.

But this one's missing.

Vittoria arrives over his shoulder, having completed a quick

search of the place.

He touches the indentation in the velvet, puzzling it out.

They freeze. Vittoria looks at Langdon, who nods     -- you'd better

do it.    She does.

They turn and face Mr. Gray.    He looks quite dapper, and not too

much the worse for wear.    There is a briefcase on the ground

beside him, and he's changed into a fresh shirt.

She does.    He picks it up, ejects the clip and the round in the

chamber, pockets them, and tosses the gun into the smoldering

fire.

As if to answer his own question, he picks up the briefcase from

the floor beside him.    Then studies Langdon for a moment.

He picks up his briefcase.

He turns to go.    Langdon can't help himself:

Vittoria looks at Langdon like he's nuts.        Mr. Gray turns back,

seems puzzled by the very thought.

He leaves.

Langdon and Vittoria pause for a moment, look at each other     --

INT     PAPAL OFFICES - HALLWAY          NIGHT

Rocher reaches the office of the Pope. Two uniformed Swiss Guard

are stationed outside.

Another Swiss Guardsman steps out of the office, reporting back

from within.

The Swiss Guards look at each other.

Rocher is truly intimidating when he wants to be.

He nods to the other Guards, who raise their swords, allowing

access.

INT     SECRET PASSAGE         NIGHT

Vittoria and Langdon barrel down the stone stairs, into the

passage, and through the open doorway to Il Passetto.

INT     IL PASSETTO      NIGHT

The passetto is narrow and dark, lit only by streaks of moonlight

coming through the vertical slits in the walls.

But up ahead, there's light.      They race for it.

INT     OFFICE OF THE POPE            NIGHT

The Camerlengo kneels in prayer in front of the fire. He hears a

sound behind him and turns as the door to the papal office opens.

Rocher enters, closes and locks the door behind him.

INT/EXT       IL PASSETTO       NIGHT

Vittoria and Langdon race up a flight of stairs, and the passetto

comes out into the open for a hundred yards or so as it leaves the

Castel Sant'Angelo.

Ahead, they see a rope ladder over the side.        They look down.

Directly below them, Mr. Gray is getting into an Alfa Romeo parked

discretely at the end of a dead end street, making his escape.

DOWN ON THE STREET,

the car door SLAMS.

IN THE CAR,

Mr. Gray turns the key.

UP ON THE PASSETTO,

Langdon and Vittoria are running toward the Vatican again when the

EXPLOSION rips through the still night.

They stagger and turn back, in time to see Mr. Gray's car go up in

an enormous fireball.

Langdon grabs her arm and they take off.        The Passetto descends

again, into --

INT       IL PASSETTO       NIGHT

looms ahead, blocking their way.

But as they draw closer, they find the ancient lock hanging open,

and the gate swings freely.    This tunnel has been used, and

recently.

FURTHER AHEAD,

they plow onward, and now there is a low ROARING sound from above

them.    Langdon pauses, looks up.

They keep on.

INT      PAPAL OFFICES - HALLWAY      NIGHT

In the hallway outside the Pope's office, there are raised VOICES

from behind the closed door.    Lt. Chartrand approaches

nervously.

He and the Guards look at each other, don't know what to do. From

the other direction, Father Simeon, Cardinal Mortati's Aide,

strides toward them.

AN ANGRY SHOUT from behind the door draws their attention --what

the hell is going on in there?

INT      IL PASSETTO      NIGHT

Langdon and Vittoria hit another gate, this one heavier, but it

too is unlocked.    The sound of St. Peter's Square fades behind

them now.

UP AHEAD,

they turn a corner and, without warning --- the tunnel ends.

There is only a thick iron door, and as Langdon searches it with

his flashlight, he finds no handle, no knob, no keyhole, no

hinges.

With a ROAR of anger, he starts to POUND on the door.      Vittoria

joins in.

INT      OFFICES OF THE POPE - HALLWAY        NIGHT

CLOSE ON a watch -- 11:40.     Outside the door to the Pope's

office, Lt. Chartrand is desperate.

While Father Simeon attempts to argue with him in Italian,

Chartrand turns, hearing the POUNDING coming from down the hall.

He heads toward it, rounds a corner   --

INT      POPE'S PRIVATE LIBRARY       NIGHT

is louder.

He steps to a heavy door in the wall, looks unused for a century,

but it's clearly the source of the sounds.    He looks down, sees

three keyholes in the door, and an ancient key in each of them.

Chartrand puts his ear to the door, hears VOICES    --

INT     IL PASSETTO      NIGHT

light as the heavy door is hauled open before them.

Chartrand looks at them in amazement    -- how'd you get here?

INT     PAPAL OFFICES - HALLWAY         NIGHT

Chartrand, Langdon, and Vittoria round the corner and race down

the hallway toward the Pope's office, just as --

Swiss Guard move fast, throwing open the door.

INT      POPE'S OFFICE      NIGHT

Langdon and the others race into the pope's office and find a

truly bizarre scene.

Rocher is near the fireplace, brandishing his sidearm, aimed at

the Camerlengo, who lays on the floor, writhing in agony.

His cassock is torn open, and his bare chest is seared black.     A

large, square brand is on the floor at Rocher's feet.

Two of the Swiss Guard act without hesitation    -- they open fire.

Two bullets SLAM into Rocher's chest and he crumples.

Father Simeon bursts into the room, and as he does the Camerlengo

rolls over onto one side, points his index finger at Simeon, and

cries out a single word:

He rushes at the Camerlengo and Chartrand reacts on instinct,

putting three bullets in Father Simeon's back.

He falls to the floor, dead.

Chartrand and the Guards dash to the Camerlengo, who clutches his

chest, convulsing in pain.

Langdon walks toward him, stunned, as the Guards pull the

Camerlengo's hands away from his wound, revealing the fifth brand.

The crossed keys, seared into the flesh of his chest.

Langdon looks at Rocher in utter disbelief. Rocher's still alive,

trying to say something, holding out a hand.

Everyone else in the room is focused on the Camerlengo, so Langdon

bends down, takes the dying man's hand.

Rocher looks up at him, desperation in his eyes, trying to

communicate something but too weak to say more than:

And his eyes close.

Langdon withdraws his hand from Rocher's, and finds the dying man

has pressed something into his palm.

A key.

Langdon looks at it, and it gives him a thought. He turns, looks

at the Camerlengo, whose chest is exposed.

The crossed keys are indeed branded there      -- but they're upside

down.

Langdon slips the key in his pocket and approaches the Camerlengo

as Chartrand gets to his feet, on his radio.

The Camerlengo struggles to a sitting position.

He looks at Rocher, dead on the floor.        Back at the branded

keys.

He looks back at Rocher, and at Father Simeon, dead on the floor.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT

The square is more crowded than ever, and now the helicopter.

Chartrand called SWOOPS in low overhead as Vatican Police

frantically try to clear a landing area.

INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA          NIGHT

Langdon, Vittoria, the Camerlengo, and two Swiss Guard are

hurrying across the deserted floor of St. Peter's Basilica when

the lights go out.

They race down the center aisle, to the candlelit balustrade which

surrounds the winding staircase into the grottoes.

They do, and run down the center stair.

On the staircase,

the ninety-nine burning oil lamps throw exaggerated shadows on

stone walls.

Oh.

The Camerlengo drops to his knees and opens an iron grate in the

marble floor.

INT     THE NECROPOLIS        NIGHT

Vittoria, Langdon, the Camerlengo, and Chartrand drop down through

an open hole and into an underground city of ancient, winding

streets.    Part museum, part ruin, they run past ancient

structures, some hundreds, some thousands of years old.

The rectangular tombs are similar to little houses, complete with

doorways, thresholds, windows, and terraces.

AROUND A CORNER,

the Camerlengo seems to know exactly where he's going; he leads

them down a narrow stone passageway.

AROUND ANOTHER CORNER,

they hurry up a small hill.    At the top of the grade, there is a

stone grotto, toward which the Camerlengo is racing.

He reaches the grotto, searches, but finds nothing.

Langdon and Vittoria come to a stop behind him, breathing hard.

He rips aside some protective tarps, finds that underneath the

actual burial site is an underground area, part of a dig in

progress.

He climbs down into it, we see just the top of his head as   --

-- a soft glow seems to emanate from beneath him.

The Camerlengo's head is wreathed in light for a moment, and then,

as he climbs out, we see that he's holding in his hands --

-- the glowing canister of anti-matter.

ON THE GROUND NEARBY,

Vittoria drops to her knees, a tiny silver pellet in one hand, two

wires leading from opposite ends of it.

The Camerlengo does.     Langdon bends close.   Vittoria checks

the timer.

She leans down, reaching for the canister's baseplate.

As she does, a drop of sweat rolls to the tip of her nose She

freezes.

Wipes the sweat away, thinking about it

And with that, he snatches up the canister and takes off running,

back the way they came.

But he's already gone, around a darkened corner.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT

In St. Peter's Square, the helicopter that was brought in for the

Camerlengo waits, propellers spinning.

The Crowd seems even bigger now, and a REPORTER tells us why:

INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA           NIGHT

The Camerlengo emerges from the spiral staircase, accidentally

kicks over one of the oil lamps, spilling its burning oil on the

floor of the Basilica.

He ignores it, racing for the front doors.

INT     THE NECROPOLIS          NIGHT

Langdon and Vittoria come around a corner in the Necropolis,

having taken slightly longer to find their way.

Langdon spots the circular entry by which they first came in.

They race toward it and climb up.

INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA           NIGHT

They hurry across the floor of St. Peter's Basilica and burst out

the huge doors that open onto St. Peter's Square, just as --

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT

-- the helicopter lifts off.

The Crowd watches in amazement, and the PILOT stands in the

square, talking animatedly to two Swiss Guard, gesturing toward

the helicopter.    But if he's not flying it...

Langdon looks up at the helicopter as it climbs, straight upward.

INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT

The Camerlengo is indeed at the controls of the helicopter,

piloting it upwards and away from the crowd below.    The canister

is beside him on the passenger seat.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT

The crowd falls silent, all eyes turning upward, watching the

helicopter recede into the clouds.

INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT

The canister BEEPS on the seat beside the Camerlengo -- still a

few minutes left on its timer, but the urgently flashing red power

light can't be considered a good sign.

The Camerlengo looks at it.

Crosses himself.

Raises the crucifix from around his neck and brushes it against

his lips.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE          NIGHT

All eyes are upturned, all voices have fallen still, watching as

the helicopter's anti-collision lights disappear into the clouded

night sky.

EXT     IN THE SKY       NIGHT

High above the square, the helicopter still climbs, rotating in

circles.

INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT

CLOSE ON the canister as the red light flashes even faster, and a

shrill BEEPING fills the cockpit.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE          NIGHT

In the crowd, faces turn, PEOPLE point.        There's something in

the sky above them.

Langdon and Vittoria see it too -- a faint white speck, far up in

the sky.    This is the explosion?

EXT     IN THE SKY       NIGHT

No, the faint white speck is a billowing parachute    -- and the

Camerlengo dangles at the end of it.

ABOVE HIM,

the helicopter continues to climb, far up into the night.

INT     HELICOPTER       NIGHT

And in the canister, the BEEPING sound becomes continuous and the

light winks out altogether.

The shimmering bead of anti-matter falls out of suspension and

drops, slowly, toward the bottom of the canister, it barely

touches the surface --

EXT     IN THE SKY         NIGHT

light.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE          NIGHT

Up in the sky over St. Peter's Square, the pinpoint of light is

tiny at first, then it shoots out to either side in a searing

white line, then the white line balloons out on either side,

expanding into a gigantic ball of hot white light.

And then the sound hits.

THIS is the explosion, and it is so much more ferocious than we

could have imagined.

The entire image is bleached white, with only the faint outlines

of people visible within it.

And then concussive force of the blast hits, like heat waves,

rippling everything in its way.    SCREAMING and panic.

EXT     IN THE SKY         NIGHT

The Camerlengo, clinging to the parachute, is buffeted wildly,

spun over and over, tangling him in his cords, which makes him

fall faster.

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE          NIGHT

The second wave of the blast comes, and this one's ten times as

powerful as the first.

Everything standing is flattened -- PEOPLE, camera trucks, the

fountain in the middle of the square collapses in a shower of

marble and water.

INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA         NIGHT

Ceiling tiles fall and SMASH on the floor inside St. Peter's,

statues topple.

EXT     IN THE SKY         NIGHT

The Camerlengo falls, unconscious now, tumbling over and over,

dropping too fast. He SLAMS off an angled rooftop, headed for the

ground.

EXT       ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT

In the square, Langdon and Vittoria dodge falling debris.

Vittoria loses her footing as a chunk of plaster CRUNCHES off a

building, plummeting toward her.

Langdon pulls her to safety as the plaster PULVERIZES itself in

the square.

EXT      IN THE SKY       NIGHT

The Camerlengo CRUNCHES off the side of another building and

drifts downward, fast, toward the crowd in St. Peter's.

His unconscious form SMASHES through a dozen people before SLAMMING

to the ground at one edge of the square.

AND IN THE SKY ABOVE,

the blast suddenly turns inward on itself, the heat and light and

sound all seeming to suck back up into a perfect horizontal line,

which then collapses in from the sides, until once again it is

just a speck of white hot light --

EXT      ST.    PETER'S SQUARE          NIGHT

The only sound that remains in the square is a soft night wind.

The wounded pick themselves up off the ground.

The crowd, realizing the blast is over, turns its attention to the

body of the Camerlengo, on the far side of the square.

Langdon and Vittoria try to make their way toward him, but the

crowd surges past them, and we soar over the heads of the crowd,

wanting to get there first, wanting to be the first ones to see

--- his eyes open. He's alive.

WIDE ON THE SQUARE AS

a great CHEER rises up from the crowd.

INT      SISTINE CHAPEL          NIGHT

The CHEERS from outside are clearly audible in the Sistine Chapel,

where the doors have been thrown open and they have gotten the

news.    Jubilation reigns.

A SWISS GUARDSMAN runs in, finds Cardinal Mortati.

But he looks around him -- the Cardinals have split into small

groups, they're discussing something with great animation amongst

themselves.

Mortati watches, doesn't like what he's seeing.

INT     OFFICE OF THE SWISS GUARD                NIGHT

Langdon and Vittoria, on a bench in the office of the Swiss Guard,

are having superficial wounds treated.    The buzz in the office is

intense, just as excited as in the square and the Sistine Chapel.

Langdon looks over at Vittoria.

She looks back at him, nods. Smiles. He reaches over, interlaces

his fingers with hers, and takes her hand.

She smiles, turns his hand, noticing the glass on his wristwatch

is broken.    He notices, seems distressed.

She smiles and kisses the back of his hand          -- yes.        A ROAR

comes from outside and we see --

EXT      ST.   PETER'S SQUARE           NIGHT

there's CHANTING of the Camerlengo's name.    It's exactly

midnight.

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

In the Sistine Chapel, Cardinal Mortati is in hushed, urgent

conversation with a group of seven or eight Cardinals.

The African Cardinal who cast his vote earlier speaks up.

Mortati looks at him.    Boxed into a corner.

Outside, the crowd in St. Peter's can be heard, singing joyously.

A SECOND CARDINAL steps forward.

A THIRD CARDINAL now, a peacemaker:

They all look at him.

Most of the Cardinals look puzzled -- but Mortati's face darkens.

The Second Cardinal sparks to this idea.

Many cries now of "Bring the Camerlengo to us!"

Mortati looks deeply troubled.

INT     ROCHER'S OFFICE      NIGHT

Bandaged now, Langdon and Vittoria are ushered into Rocher's

office by a Swiss Guardsman.

They shake their heads, no thanks.        Settle into chairs to the

side of Rocher's desk.

They look uncomfortable   -- it's weird to be in a dead man's

office.

Vittoria looks at his desk.     Thinks of something.

She gets up and goes to it, running her hand lightly over it.

She feels in the surface of the desk and finds the square outline

of the inlaid panel where Rocher hid the journals.    She tries

prying it open, but that doesn't work, she tries pushing down on

the front of it --

laid on top of the television monitor, slide out and onto the

desk.

Vittoria scoops them up and is about to close the panel again

when --

He looks down at the monitor.        Thinking.

At its odd, key-shaped on/off switch.

He pulls something from his pocket      -- the key Rocher gave him,

just as he died.

IN LANGDON'S MIND,

he sees Rocher's face, looking up at him, dying:

BACK IN THE OFFICE,

Langdon looks at the key, and its odd shape.    Looks down at the

monitor, the same odd shape where its switch should be.

IN LANGDON'S MIND,

they're back in the Pope's office, but Rocher is alive, and saying

words he said earlier:

BACK IN THE OFFICE,

Rocher's voice continues over, but Langdon mouths the words as he

remembers them:

IN LANGDON'S MIND,

Rocher is back in the office again, finishing his sentence:

IN ROCHER'S OFFICE,

Langdon holds the key up, repeating those last words:

He lowers the key to the monitor, extending it toward the keyhole

-- and it's a perfect fit.      He twists it.

And with a ZZZZT of power, the monitor winks to life.   An image

comes into focus.

On the monitor,

they are indeed looking at an image of the Pope's office.    There

are two dead bodies on the floor, covered with sheets, and VATICAN

POLICE are photographing everything.    Must be live.

IN ROCHER'S OFFICE,

Langdon's figuring it out.

He reaches down to the screen, toward a touch panel at the bottom.

You don't have to be a symbologist to understand these symbols-

play, pause, fast forward.

And rewind.   Langdon touches it.

ON THE MONITOR,

the image ZIPS backwards, rapidly, to the shooting, and the all

the way back to when Rocher and the Camerlengo were alone

together. Rocher stands just behind him, the Camerlengo still

kneels before the fireplace.

As the image starts to play forward, in real time, we go in close

on the monitor and come out --

INT     POPE'S OFFICE       NIGHT

-- in the papal office, to watch the scene in person.

The Camerlengo turns his eyes back to the flames, stirring the

embers with a poker.

The Camerlengo twists the poker in the fire.     Speaks softly.

The Camerlengo looks up at him, and his expression is different

than we've ever seen it.    Contemptuous.    Angry.    Violent.

The Camerlengo looks at him calmly for a moment   --

poker, it's a long-handled brand, with a cross of some kind at the

end.

Rocher pulls his gun, holds it at his side.

The Camerlengo rips open his cassock with his free hand.

But the Camerlengo RAMS the red-hot brand into the exposed flesh

of his bare chest.    His skin SIZZLES and smokes, Rocher SHOUTS,

the Camerlengo SCREAMS in agony, and we know the rest --

Father Simeon races toward the Camerlengo --

Father Simeon and CRYING OUT:

As we saw before, Lt. Chartrand FIRES THREE TIMES, killing Father

Simeon in his tracks, we pull back, the image turns to --

INT      ROCHER'S OFFICE      NIGHT

we see it isn't Langdon and Vittoria watching the image this time --

--- but Cardinal Mortati, flanked by two other red-robed Cardinals

and a half-dozen Swiss Guardsman.

Langdon and Vittoria stand to one side as Mortati turns and looks

at them.    Suddenly, he seems very, very old.

INT     GRAND STAIRCASE       NIGHT

The Camerlengo, escorted by two Swiss Guardsman, descends the

Royal Staircase that leads to the Sistine Chapel.

Though he is injured and limping, he radiates confidence, even

benevolence, a man certain this is the greatest day of his life.

He approaches the chapel doors, speaks to the Swiss Guard posted

there as he approaches.

Oh, they know all about it.    They lift their swords, the doors

sweep open, the Camerlengo strides boldly across the threshold --

INT     SISTINE CHAPEL       NIGHT

on his face.

The Cardinals are looking at him, all right, but not in joy, not

in wonder, not for leadership.    One hundred sixty-one faces are

turned toward his, with an expression of ---

-- utter condemnation.

He stands there for a moment, searching their faces, trying to

figure out what could possibly have happened.

But it doesn't matter.

They know.   And he knows they know.

He takes two steps backwards, almost involuntarily.

Starts to teeter, balances himself in the doorway.

Then straightens himself, smoothes his cassock.

And turns and walks away, back up the staircase.

Two Swiss Guard move to go after him, quickly, but Cardinal

Mortati gestures to them.

The Swiss Guard follow the Camerlengo up the staircase.

INT      ST.   PETER'S BASILICA      NIGHT

The Camerlengo comes out of a doorway and into St. Peter's

Basilica.    He heads for the main doors --

blocking his way.    Some MURMUR softly into their radios.

He stops, turns around to come back the way he came ---

He turns again, no way to go but toward the front of the Basilica.

He sees the candlelit balustrade near the front, the one that

leads to the grottoes and the Necropolis.    He picks up his pace.

The Swiss Guard follow, at a slight distance.

The Camerlengo reaches the spiral staircase and stops, looking

down, seeing the oil lamp he kicked over earlier.

He thinks.     He picks up a fresh lamp, holds it to his face    --

ACROSS THE BASILICA,

we're with the Swiss Guard as they walk slowly toward him.

But they hear a CRY from ahead, he's gone down the stairs a short

distance, and they can hear the sound of liquid SLOSHING.

They break into a run as they realize what he's about to do,

they're twenty feet away, then ten, then just close enough to see

the Camerlengo as he --

onto his oil-soaked clothes and --

INT      SISTINE CHAPEL      NIGHT

CLOSE ON a bundle of one hundred sixty-one slips of paper, pierced

by a needle and strung together.

They're tossed into the fireplace in the Sistine Chapel, where

they too burst into flame.

We rise up again, ahead of the smoke this time, all the way up to      --

EXT     ST.    PETER'S SQUARE          DAWN

still gathered, waiting for some word as the sun rises on the

horizon. And this time, the smoke that billows from the chimney    --

-- is white.

There is a new pope.    The crowd ROARS its approval, BELLS begin

to toll --

INT     PAPAL APARTMENT          DAY

SLICED apart --

-- the wax seal BREAKS as the doors are flung open, and we   --

EXT     ST.    PETER'S SQUARE DAY

believe it, is even bigger.

A STRING OF REPORTERS fills us in for the last time (non-English

speakers subtitled).

A BRAZILIAN REPORTER:

An AMERICAN REPORTER:

We move off the Reporter and up, toward the papal balcony, its

doors hanging open, curtains billowing.

INT     PAPAL APARTMENT DAY

Inside the papal apartments, Robert Langdon sits stiffly on a

straight-backed chair in a hallway.    Couldn't look more

uncomfortable if he tried.

A Swiss Guardsman stands on either side of him.

The door to his right suddenly opens, another Guardsman nods to

him, and Langdon gets to his feet, straightening his jacket.

INT     OFFICE OF THE POPE DAY

Langdon is shown into the office, where a robed figure is being

dressed by two VATICAN ATTENDANTS -- the clothes he dons are

unmistakably papal vestments.    The figure, his back to us,

gestures to a nearby table.

One of the Swiss Guardsmen goes to the table and picks up an

envelope, hands it to Langdon.

Langdon, puzzled, opens the envelope and lets the contents fall

into his hand.

It's a thin volume, but a familiar one -- the only surviving copy

of Galileo's Diagramma.    Langdon nearly GASPS.

The figure in the papal robes turn around.       It is, of course,

Cardinal Mortati.

Langdon is too stunned to speak,

Mortati takes a few steps forward, studying Langdon,

Langdon looks at him questioningly.

He touches his chest lightly.

The Aides now pick up the miter, the spade-shaped papal hat.   He

stands still while they place it on his head, completing his

attire.

Langdon looks at him.   Likes the sound of that.

Mortati comes closer to Langdon, raises his right hand, and makes

a gentle sign of the cross over him, murmuring softly.

He smiles.

He turns, and his Aides part the billowing silk curtains that lead

to the papal balcony.

We move forward with him as he steps out over St. Peter's Square

and a great ROAR rises up from below.

Cardinal Mortati, Pope Luke I, holds his arms out to his sides, an

embrace to take in the world --

just behind the billowing curtains, Robert Langdon folds his hand

in front of him --

-- and bows his head.

