INT. POKROVSKOE--NIGHT

CLOSE--Expert fingers--female, unlovely, capable--shape a small lump of

dough which, with some shreds of cabbage, becomes a filled bun called a pirozhok . . .

which is now placed on a baking tray to join rows of pirozhoki ready for the oven.

CLOSE-- One hand opens the oven, and, mittened by an apron, removes

a tray of perfectly baked pirozhoki, which the other hand replaces with the

fresh tray . . . slightly burning itself on a knuckle.

INT. KITCHEN, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Agafia sucks her knuckle and checks what's cooking on the stove-top. She is

the cook-housekeeper.

A Kitchen Maid at the sink obediently dries her hands on her apron. A

dozing dog, Laska, pricks up her ears.

EXT. YARD, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--NIGHT

It's snowing. The Kitchen Maid, shawled, with a lantern, makes her way

across the yard towards the cowshed, a short distance, and pushes open the

frozen door. Laska is at her heels, but is made to stay outside.

INT. COWSHED, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--NIGHT

The herd stirs at the lantern light. The bull, Berkut, with a ring through

his nose, snorts as the girl goes by. At the back of the shed a cow is calving.

Levin is midwifing, sleeves pulled back, blood and slime up to his elbows.

He is 34. His steward, Vasili, holds up a lantern. Levin pulls carefully at

the emerging forefeet.

The calf's head emerges.

The calf enters the world like a diver. Levin is feeling great pride and

pleasure.

The cow nuzzles and licks her calf.

INT. DINING ROOM, POKROVSKOE--NIGHT

Cleaned up, in a smock shirt, Levin bites hungrily into a pirozhok, talking.

He has a book on a book-rest. Agafia ladles soup for him. Three generations

of family portraits look down on him.

Levin evades, ducks into spooning up soup, finding his place in his book.

Agafia goes out. Alone, Levin closes the book and stares into himself.

INT. (MOSCOW)-- DAY

CLOSE--Expert fingers scrape a cut-throat razor across a lathered

cheek . . . and again, skirting luxuriant facial hair on pampered skin.

INT. OBLONSKY'S DRESSING ROOM, OBLONSKY

There is a door to the landing and a door to the bedroom.

Prince Stepan Oblonsky-- Stiva to his friends--is 34 and liked by every-

body. A barber comes in every morning to shave him. His valet, Matvey, is

older and almost a friend. He holds up an enormous pear.

Oblonsky puts the barber on hold to have a look.

Oblonsky thinks about it, lets the barber finish. He stands and removes his

dressing gown.

Matvey is ready with Oblonsky's shirt, which he puts over his master's head

like a horse's collar.

INT. "DAY NURSERY," OBLONSKY HOUSE, SAME

There is a sloping lineup of five children, aged eight, five, four, three and

two, dressed and brushed for presentation to their mother, Princess Daria

Oblonsky, known as Dolly . . . who we now see is heavily pregnant. Stand-

ing by is a French governess, Mlle. Roland, and a Nurse. Mlle. Roland

is buxom.

Dolly picks up the youngest, Vasya, to kiss him and hands him to the

Nurse, and kisses the others in ascending order.

INT. OBLONSKY'S DRESSING ROOM, SAME TIME--

Oblonsky, dressed now and holding a cup of coffee, checks from the window.

Dolly, in furs, the four youngest children and the Nurse, who carries Vasya,

all wrapped up against the cold weather, have come out of the house to a

waiting sleigh, as noisy as starlings, bickering, competing, reprimanding.

The Oblonsky's Coachman assists, with a rug to spread across knees.

Oblonsky hands his coffee to Matvey and lights a small cigar. He detours

to take a sugared almond from a dish of sweets, and leaves the room . . .

INT. SCHOOLROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE, SAME

Tanya is at her lessons with Mlle. Roland. When Oblonsky's face appears

smiling round the door, Tanya jumps up and runs to him, greeting him,

laughing, kissing his face, hanging on his neck.

He pops the sugared almond into her mouth and puts a conspiratorial finger

to his lips. Mlle. Roland, who has stood up for him, clucks in reprimand.

Tanya runs back to her seat and bends to her schoolbook. Oblonsky looks

Mlle. Roland in the eye. He moves his head slightly, unmistakably ask-

ing her to come outside. Mlle. Roland moves her eyes at him in humorous

reproach. Clearly, this is familiar ground. Oblonsky closes the door behind

him.

INT. (ST. PETERSBURG)--DAY

CLOSE--Pretty fingers put on several rings, and then pick up a Faberge

jade paper-knife to slit an envelope and withdraw a letter.

INT. ANNA'S BOUDOIR, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

It is early in the day. Anna's maid, Annushka, has been dressing Anna.

Annushka is young, loyal, modest.

Anna is at her dressing-table-bureau, which is host to at least two pho-

tographs of a small boy (Serozha) and a child's unframed drawing of

"Maman." As she starts reading the letter, Anna's eyes frown.

FLASH BACK, VERY SHORT, ALMOST SUBLIMINAL--

INT. (LINEN CLOSET)--DAY

Oblonsky and Mlle. Roland in a passionate embrace, vertical, clothed.

BACK TO SCENE

Anna turns the page, reads on, concerned.

FLASH BACK-- SHORT, A BEAT OR TWO--

INT. LINEN CLOSET, OBLONSKY HOUSE--DAY

Still kissing, Oblonsky hoists up her skirts.

BACK TO SCENE

Anna turns to the second page.

FLASH BACK-- SHORT

INT. BEDROOM LEVEL, OBLONSKY HOUSE--NIGHT

Oblonsky, coming in quietly and late from a night on the town, enters his

dressing room. He stops. He smiles a foolish apologetic smile.

REVERSE-- (DRESSING ROOM)

Dolly is waiting for him, shocked, enraged, holding out a billet-doux on

pink paper: a love note.

BACK TO SCENE

Anna speaks as in exasperation to a naughty child.

INT. KARENIN'S STUDY, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Anna is speaking to her husband "confidentially." Karenin, a busy man,

drains his coffee cup and hands it (as with Oblonsky and Matvey) to his

valet, Korney, who bows and withdraws. Karenin continues transferring

papers from his desk to his portfolio . . .

Which done, he nods to his private secretary, Mikhail Slyudin, who comes

forward to receive it, bows and leaves.

Karenin is twenty years older than Anna and a senior figure in govern-

ment. He has an unattractive reedy voice and is pleased with himself as a

model of probity. He has the habit of cracking his knuckles.

There is another interruption: Serozha, aged seven and a half, and his

tutor, Vasily Lukich, enter for a ritual "good morning." Serozha is a little

frightened of his father, but the mother and son are in love. Anna goes

straight to Serozha, her heart lifted, to hug him.

Lukich bows. Anna goes with Serozha, relinquishing him finally. She closes

the door on them.

Karenin cracks his knuckles, concedes.

INT. OBLONSKY'S DRESSING ROOM, OBLONSKY

Oblonsky has been bunking down on his couch. He moans and groans. He

gets up and tries the door to the bedroom. It's locked. He knocks timidly.

He listens hopefully. The other door, leading to the upper landing, is opened

violently by Dolly.

She slams the door behind her.

INT. BEDROOM LEVEL, OBLONSKY HOUSE, SAME

Oblonsky comes out of his dressing room to see the main bedroom door

slammed. He attempts to go in but the door is locked.

Matvey come to the top of the stairs with a telegram.

Oblonsky tears open the telegram.

INT. OBLONSKY'S OFFICE, MOSCOW--DAY

Inner doors open and Oblonsky comes out of his private office. He is his

genial self. Everyone in the general office-- minor officials, clerks-- stands

up for him and bows. Oblonsky is wearing government uniform--green

coat with gold embroidery on the collar--instead of his own coat. Oblonsky

is helped out of one coat into the other.

Oblonsky opens the door to look. Levin is sitting waiting on a bench, wear-

ing a sheepskin coat, cap and scuffed boots.

He seizes Levin and kisses him.

Oblonsky leads Levin back through the general office, where everyone stands

up again. Levin's sheepskin and boots attract curious glances.

INT. OBLONSKY'S PRIVATE OFFICE, SAME TIME--DAY

Oblonsky leads Levin inside and closes the door.

Levin undoes his coat and sits down.

Seeing the clothes Levin is wearing, he laughs.

Oh, but look at you, in Western clothes

you told me you'd never wear again. Some-

thing's up.

Yes. I'm in love. I've come back to propose.

Have you guessed who she is?

I have a suspicion. Why didn't you propose

when you were here?

I decided it was impossible. Kitty is of the

heavens, an angel, and I am of the earth--

but then I thought and thought, and . . .

there's no life for me without her! . . . Do I

have a chance?

Of course you do. The Shcherbatskys are

giving a soiree this evening. Get there early

before the crowd. If I may suggest . . .

Anything! What?

New boots.

Right. Anything else?

Oblonsky ushers Levin back into the general office.

INT. GENERAL OFFICE, SAME TIME--DAY

. . . Everyone stands up as before. The Doorkeeper produces Oblonsky's top-

coat and helps him into it.

He ushers Levin out.

EXT. L'ANGLETERRE RESTAURANT, MOSCOW--DAY

Firstly, a Moscow street scene, busy with people going about their business,

on foot and in conveyances.

Secondly, Levin approaches L'Angleterre in his new fur-collared coat, top

hat and boots.

INT. L'ANGLETERRE RESTAURANT, MOSCOW--

Oblonsky and Levin preside over the debris of three dozen oysters, with

champagne in a bucket to hand. Oblonsky is in a maudlin mood, afloat

on champagne.

A waiter arrives to remove the oyster shells, while an Elderly Waiter places

a bowl of soup in front of Levin and a lobster in front of Oblonsky.

Oblonsky laughs. The Waiter departs.

Levin jumps up in elation, collects himself, and sits.

INT. (ST. PETERSBURG)--NIGHT

A little out of focus and further obscured by puffs of steam, the wheels

of a locomotive and its tender plus a carriage or two, with part of the

superstructure--the whole kit and caboodle turning out to be a rich child's

table-top model railway--go by the Camera like a WIPE revealing the

momentarily gigantic face of Anna . . . who is crouching down to watch

the toy go by.

INT. DAY NURSERY, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Serozha is at present snivelling.

Anna is on the brink of tears.

She dabs her eyes.

INT. KARENIN HOUSE--NIGHT

Kapitonich, the Karenins' Hall Porter, an "old soldier," comes out of the

house to where a private carriage is waiting. The coachman is Konrad.

Anna comes out with Annushka, who has a large soft bag containing

everything her mistress needs for the journey. Kapitonich holds the carriage

door for them.

INT. MOVING TRAIN--NIGHT

Anna has a window seat. Next to her is Annushka.

In the opposite window seat is Countess Vronsky, at sixty losing the battle to

keep her youthful beauty. She has a lap dog (and perhaps a Faberge-topped

walking cane). Next to her is her Maid.

Anna is not happy to be leaving. She holds a small framed photo of Sero-

zha, which she then puts away in her red bag. Countess Vronsky smiles at

her. Anna wipes her eyes, explains.

Anna knows the name.

Anna, found out, smiles tentatively.

Anna looks at the snow on the window. She is unsettled by the conversation.

EXT. SHCHERBATSKY HOUSE. MOSCOW--NIGHT

A sleigh (i.e., a cab) brings Levin.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, SHCHERBATSKY HOUSE,

The Hall Porter lets Levin into the house. A Footman takes Levin's hat

and coat. Levin is uneasy--he seems to be first to arrive. He decides he has

come too early. He pulls his coat back from the Footman.

Princess Ekaterina (Kitty) Shcherbatsky is eighteen. Eager to see who has

arrived, she hurries from the direction of the reception room and looks down

into the entrance hall in time to see Levin snatch his hat back from the

Footman.

Kitty runs off out of Levin's view. He flings his hat and coat at the Foot-

man and runs up the stairs.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM, SHCHERBATSKY HOUSE,

Levin hurries in and finds Kitty seated prettily in a "receiving" pose. She

is alone.

Levin plays along, kissing her hand elaborately.

He has got ahead of himself. Doors are flung open and the hosts, Prince and

Princess Shcherbatsky, and a crowd of guests who have arrived together, are

greeting each other. Levin has to make a quick decision, and he makes the

wrong one--to go on.

Kitty panics. A wave of Guests is almost upon her.

Kitty flees. Levin seems stunned, surrounded now by greetings, laughter,

and servants with trays of drinks.

Prince and Princess Shcherbatsky receive a young married member of Kitty's

set, Countess Nordston . . . and introduce Levin, who hears and sees noth-

ing. He turns away, leaving the Countess hung out to dry.

Levin finds himself face to face with Burisov, a silky Officer in sky blue

uniform, who introduces himself.

He bows to Levin and turns away to greet someone.

Levin reacts, decides to leave. He makes for the door. He nearly collides

with someone, gives and receives an apology, and suddenly understands who

this man in Guards uniform must be. Levin turns.

Levin pauses awkwardly. Vronsky hesitates, bows and continues on. Levin

witnesses Kitty seeing Vronsky approaching, and sees her face light up.

Vronsky kisses her hand.

His banter is lost on her. She laughs happily.

Levin turns away and leaves.

EXT. SHCHERBATSKY HOUSE--NIGHT

Levin comes out of the grand house where several coaches are waiting. Hum-

bled and angry with himself and the world, he takes off his top hat and

considers putting his fist through it, but jams it back on his head. A horse-

cab comes along. Levin waves it down.

EXT. KHITROVKA, MOSCOW--NIGHT

A mean street, an area of poverty and crime. Levin pays off his cab.

INT. THE UNICORN, KHITROVKA--NIGHT

Levin goes up a dimly lit, dingy staircase. Snatches of MUSIC and SING-

ING drift up the stairs.

TOP OF THE STAIRS

Levin knocks at a door, then louder. The door is flung open. Nikolai

Levin is the spirit of consumptive, bohemian radicalism. He peers at Levin,

surprised.

Nikolai roars with laughter which turns to wheezing.

Nikolai goes back into the room, shouting for "Masha." Levin follows him.

INT. NIKOLAI'S ROOM, KHITROVA, SAME TIME--

Levin sees that he is in a tiny apartment. A Young Woman looks at him

fearfully from the inner doorway.

Masha goes to Nikolai and whispers to him, calming him.

He fills a wineglass with vodka and gulps it greedily.

Levin involuntarily smiles at the self-puffery.

Wheezing, he goes for the bottle again. Masha tries to take it from him,

appealing to Levin.

He pushes her away and pours himself more vodka.

Levin's reaction is almost violent, surprising Nikolai.

Levin recovers himself. He takes out his wallet.

Levin becomes flustered.

Masha reaches for the money Levin has put on the table. Nikolai knocks

her hand away. He throws the banknotes at Levin. He coughs himself into

a paroxysm. Levin tries to embrace him. Nikolai throws him off.

Masha snatches up the banknotes.

INT. STATION (MOSCOW)--DAY

There is a scattering of people of all classes on the platform waiting for the

arriving train.

By the entrance/exit gate, a Guards Officer stands holding a bouquet. The

Stationmaster stands by. A strip of faded red carpet has been laid on the

planks.

The Guards Officer nods. He sees Vronsky arriving.

EXT. PLATFORM, THE ARRIVING TRAIN, SAME

Vronsky moves closer to the slowing train, scanning the windows going by.

EXT. PLATFORM ENTRANCE GATE, SAME TIME--DAY

The Guards Officer and the Stationmaster are disconcerted to see the obvious

"private coach" stop seriously short (or long) behind luggage wagons, etc.

He hurries away towards the engine.

Oblonsky hurries through, relieved not to be late.

EXT. PLATFORM, SAME TIME--DAY

Vronsky is saluted by his mother's Major Domo, a tall man in livery with

a cockade.

Vronsky nods, and makes his way towards the second coach, against the

flow of disembarked passengers.

EXT. TRAIN (ENGINE), SAME TIME

The Stationmaster speaks to the Engine Driver.

EXT. EXIT/ENTRANCE GATE, SAME TIME--DAY

The Guards Officer with the bouquet stands uncertainly while arriving

passengers go past him.

EXT. "PRIVATE COACH," SAME TIME--DAY

The Royal Austrian Honeymooners peer anxiously through the window.

INT. TRAIN, SAME TIME-- DAY

Countess Vronsky remains sitting. Annushka packs away Anna's blanket

and pillow. Anna looks out of the window.

Anna moves to the door opening on to the "porch." Vronsky is on the point

of entering. He steps back to allow her by. They barely exchange a glance

as she passes him, but, simultaneously, each of them looks back. Anna looks

away quickly. His look lingers before he turns away to enter the carriage.

INT./EXT. PORCH--DAY

Anna, from her vantage point spots Oblonsky, calls to him. Annushka,

with her bag, comes onto the porch and descends to follow her mistress.

EXT. PLATFORM, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna steps down to the platform and embraces Oblonsky. They are delighted

to see each other.

INT. TRAIN, SAME TIME-- DAY

Countess Vronsky remains in her seat. Vronsky bends at the window, look-

ing at Oblonsky and Anna.

She takes the dog. The Maid leaves with her bag.

He glances back to the window, where Anna turns back to enter the train.

EXT. PLATFORM, SAME TIME--DAY

As Anna turns back, a Railwayman with a hammer for tapping wheels

is in her way. He steps back for her with a bow and a "Madame!" Anna

glances at him and moves past him. The man taps a wheel, making a ring-

ing sound which means the wheel is okay.

As Anna mounts the steps, a Train Guard looks up and down the plat-

form, holding a green flag.

INT. TRAIN, SAME TIME-- DAY

Anna enters from the porch.

The ringing sound of the wheel-tapper's hammer is faintly audible in

Anna's hesitation. Anna shuts off the gallantry.

Countess Vronsky does so. Anna turns to offer her hand to Vronsky. As

Vronsky takes her hand, the train lurches and moves, unsteadying them

both.

EXT. PLATFORM, SAME TIME--DAY

Oblonsky-- and everyone still on the platform--is shocked by a dreadful

scream and shouting. The train, having moved a few feet, stops. Oblonsky

hurries towards the scene of the accident, right opposite the gate. The Station-

master overtakes him.

EXT. TRACKS, SAME TIME, DAY

The Wheel-Tapper lies between the wheels, mangled.

Oblonsky joins the horrified onlookers. The Guards Officer arrives, too,

with his bouquet. Then Vronsky arrives. He turns to the Guards Officer.

EXT. PLATFORM AND EXIT GATE--DAY

Countess Vronsky, Vronsky, Anna and Oblonsky, Oblonsky almost in tears,

come towards the gate. A Porter follows with Anna's large suitcase, hat-

boxes, etc. Annushka has the travelling bag.

Vronsky glances at her.

Vronsky retraces his steps.

She knows her son. Anna hasn't understood, but when Oblonsky looks back

he sees Vronsky with the Stationmaster, taking money from his wallet.

Anna catches on, doesn't like it.

INT. OBLONSKY COACH--DAY

She scolds him like a naughty boy.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE,

Dolly pours tea for Anna. Dolly smiles at her wanly-- brightly.

Dolly bursts into tears. Anna embraces her.

I don't know what to do.

I know, I know.

I can't bear to be with him. And he doesn't

care, he's got what he wants.

What he wants is you. He loves you, Dolly.

You and the children are everything to him.

Are we? And there is room for a governess?

That was shameful, disgraceful. But it was

not love. It was the animal in man, not the

soul. Stiva's remorse is from the soul.

What about me? Does his remorse make it

easier for me?--

I know you are suffering. But, Dolly, you

must tell me . . . is there enough love left in

your heart . . . enough to forgive him?

When I think of them together, I can't for-

give him, no!

Dolly nods tearfully.

She's winning.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE--DAY

Anna, Kitty, Tanya and Grisha are at a handsome card table where

board games, dominoes, cards, etc., are kept. There is a spill of alphabet

bricks, each with a letter printed in it. They are spelling out their names in

alphabet bricks. Grisha is on Anna's lap pulling at her hair. The spelling

business, including misspellings by Grisha, creates a noise of laughter and

mock-rebuke. Tanya at the same time is trying to pull a ring from Anna's

finger.

Kitty is not at all frightened of Anna now; enraptured by her, laughing.

Dolly sits apart, embroidering. She looks up at the sound of voices down-

stairs, Oblonsky coming home. The children hear their father and abandon

the card table, running out to greet him. Dolly stands up to leave by a dif-

ferent door, giving Anna a collusive glance.

Anna pushes aside the alphabet bricks.

Oblonsky arrives in the doorway with Tanya and Grisha hanging on him.

He cocks an eye at Anna: how did it go with Dolly? Anna moves her head:

upstairs.

Kitty catches the moment.

Which leaves Anna and Kitty alone.

Anna's smile is her acting out a mock-mysteriousness.

She has moved alphabet letters around to spell out VRONSKY. She laughs

at Kitty's tearful, joyful nodding, genuinely happy for Kitty.

A quiet note of regret hangs in the air between them for a moment before

Anna dispels it.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE--NIGHT

With only a lamp or two lit, and the door open, Anna sits alone at the

card table, with a neglected book, one hand playing idly with the alpha-

bet bricks. Their pleasant clicks are the only sound as she remains lost in

thought. She closes her book, marking the place. She is going to go up to bed.

She hears the sound of the doorbell.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, OBLONSKY HOUSE, SAME

Vronsky has been let in spattered with snow.

Vronsky glances up and sees Anna looking down. Their eyes meet. A second

passes. Vronsky is about to speak. Anna turns away and moves out of his

view, towards further stairs, with her book.

EXT. NEAR POKROVSKOE--DAY

Levin is coming home in a sleigh, driven by his one-eyed coachman, Ignat.

He is huddled under a bearskin blanket. The house is in sight.

The sleigh overtakes a Peasant Woman, Serafina, walking to the house car-

rying a big bundle of willow wands strapped to her back: a strong young

woman with a handsome face. She stops and bows her head. Levin looks at

her. She then looks him in the face.

Laska, barking joyfully, races from the house.

INT. BATHHOUSE, POKROVSKOE-- DAY

The bathhouse has a stove which heats water. There is a brazier to create

instant steam, but not now. Levin, almost naked, lies on a plank deck,

thoughtful, staring at something . . . no, at someone: Serafina, who is put-

ting on her clothes. Postcoitum. She has no angst. Dressed, she crosses herself.

Serafina nods indifferently.

She nods without irony.

Levin feels outplayed.

Levin is touched. He nods.

SOUND OVER--MUSIC OVERLAP WITH THE BALL.

INT. THE BALL, MOSCOW--NIGHT

Kitty enters the Ball, a proper lady.

This is a gilded affair, conducted by a Master of Ceremonies. The Host

and Hostess are positioned to welcome each guest. Dancing has started-- a

waltz.

Kitty and her parents enter the ballroom and are received by their hosts.

Everything has come together for Kitty--her dress, her hair, her skin, her

moment. She radiates happiness. An Officer stands aside to let them pass,

openly admiring Kitty, smoothing his moustache. A Youth having trouble

with his white tie hurries past but turns back to Kitty.

The Master of Ceremonies, Korsunsky, arrives and without permission

sweeps her into the waltz.

Kitty sees Anna arriving with Oblonsky and gives a little gasp at her

God-given beauty.

Korsunsky waltzes her brilliantly through the dancers and twirls her to

rest in front of a small group including Anna and Oblonsky-- floating

Kitty's train.

Anna appraises Kitty at a glance and gives her a tiny nod signifying top

marks. Kitty glows.

She looks up and sees Vronsky coming straight towards her.

Just as Vronsky is about to bow, she takes Oblonsky's arm and he whirls

her away. Kitty smiles for Vronsky but his eyes have followed Anna, know-

ing she cut him. He remembers himself after an awkward hiatus. Kitty's

mother and father are watching from afar. Vronsky obliges. He invites her

into the waltz.

Vronsky's mind is absent and the waltz ends after only a few steps. He

stand waiting for the music to start.

The music starts and they dance on.

At the end of the waltz, Vronsky leaves Kitty with her mother, bows and

departs. Princess Shcherbatsky is beginning to have doubts. She starts to ask.

Boris the Youth pops up to claim his dance. Dancing, Kitty sees Vronsky

talking to a couple of Officers. She is anxious but not disillusioned.

Grumpy Prince Shcherbatsky is dancing with Countess Nordston.

Anna watches the dancing. She rejects an offer with a smile. She sees Vron-

sky and to her discomfort Vronsky looks up and catches her looking.

She turns away at once, and notices that ladies are curtseying and men are

bowing as the Host and Hostess escort an overweight but glittering young

couple towards a decorative buffet in an adjoining salon: the Austrian

royal honeymooners . . . attended by the Guards Officer from the station.

Anna stands and curtseys as they pass by into the salon . . . where Oblonsky

is roaring with laughter, champagne in hand.

Anna steals a sidelong glance towards Vronsky but he is no longer there.

She looks for him among the dancers, smiles at Kitty going by with the

enthusiastic, inexpert Boris.

Suddenly, Vronsky is at Anna's side.

She gives him her hand.

Kitty looks for Vronsky, can't see him, then is taken aback to see him with

Anna. Kitty watches Anna dancing. Anna says something which makes

Vronsky laugh. Anna laughs. Anna blossoms in front of Kitty's eyes. Vron-

sky twirls Anna around and she comes smiling into his arms.

It goes on like that. Kitty watches them from within the arms of young men,

old men, from the wall. Anna and Vronsky dance slow, they dance fast,

gaily, solemnly, gazes locked.

Others are noticing too: Countess Nordston, Princess Shcherbatsky, and

eagle-eyed matrons. Anna, oblivious, has found a release in herself.

Countess Nordston finds Kitty sitting alone. Korsunsky announces the

Mazurka.

She pulls Kitty to her feet.

THE MAZURKA . . .

Korsunsky supervises a large circle of couples who change partners as they go

round, with one couple dancing in the middle of the circle.

The lady in the middle beckons to Anna and the man who, changing part-

ners, happens to be dancing with her. They enter the middle where they

have their solo turn as a couple, while the original couple reenter the circum-

ference. Anna is flushed with pleasure. Among the surrounding dancers,

Vronsky has no eyes for his partner, only for Anna. Kitty, dancing, watches

Vronsky incredulous.

Anna looks smilingly around the dancing circle and sees Kitty staring

at her. Anna "wakes up." Everything which made her drunk makes her

sober in the instant. She waits until the change of partners brings Kitty

and Vronsky together. She beckons them into the middle. Her own partner

expects to re-join the circumference with Anna, but she makes an apology

and escapes through the circle, running towards the door.

With a howl and clatter, the St. Petersburg express seems to crash through

the ballroom.

An abstract, nightmarish, discordant noise of clattering and howling

accompanies unexplained flame--light on wood, glass, iron . . . blackness

opens like a door on a blizzard of light, and slams shut.

Anna's face, eyes closed, floats ghostlike.

INT. TRAIN, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Anna comes to consciousness in the dimly lit carriage, making sense of what

seems like a hallucination. Wind and snow batter on the window. The

Carriage Stoker, in long coat and cap, deals with the stove, clears frost off

a thermometer on the wall. He leaves, opening the door to snow and wind

and slamming it behind him.

EXT. RUSSIA--NIGHT

The train "speeds" (35 m.p.h.) through a blizzard.

INT. THE TRAIN

Anna has a reading lamp hooked over her armrest, and a novel. She cuts

a page with a paper-knife. But the book cannot hold her. She is reading

without taking it in. She turns back a page and tries again, but almost at

once she turns to the window where the dark reflection of her face looks back

at her. Kitty's face staring as she stared at Anna, betrayed.

Anna turns away from the window. The Guard comes through the door,

letting in wind and snow, and shuts it. He walks through the carriage.

The train is slowing.

EXT. BOLOGOYE--NIGHT

The train clanks to a halt at a small station. Anna (and a few others)

get down from the train. She wears a heavy cloak. The wind blows a few

snowflakes through the station but the roof keeps off the snow. She is glad of

the fresh air. Here and there, men are walking, smoking, laughing together.

She feels better.

A tall outline of a man in a greatcoat and military cap emerges from the

flickering gloom. She catches her breath. He salutes her.

She climbs the steps on to the porch. At the door to the carriage she pauses.

The encounter has left her feeling elated and frightened.

EXT. STATION, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

The train arrives. Vronsky gets down from the train and starts to walk

towards Anna's carriage. His German valet, Franz, runs up to him (from

second class).

Franz runs back the other way. Vronsky walks on, then stops when he

sees Karenin waiting on the platform, smiling and going forward to hand

Anna down the steps. Kapitonich enters the carriage. Vronsky hesitates.

Vronsky steps forward. Anna knows he's there. She angles herself to avoid

looking at him.

He bows to Karenin.

Karenin extends a hand indifferently then dismisses Vronsky, drawing

Anna with him.

He walks Anna away.

Vronsky watches them go.

EXT. VRONSKY'S APARTMENT, ST. PETERSBURG--

A snowy St. Petersburg street. Vronsky arrives home by cab. He has a flat

in an old apartment block.

INT. VRONSKY'S FLAT, ST. PETERSBURG, SAME

Vronsky rings the doorbell. A Servant opens the door. A male voice shouts

"If it's someone demanding money, don't let him in!"

Veronsky enters the main room. The occupant of the flat is a 2nd Lieuten-

ant, Petritsky, wearing his greatcoat over shirt and trousers.

Petritsky indicates a pretty young woman in satin.

Vronsky bows and kisses her fingers.

You're at home where you are, Baroness.

Ah!--Pierre, you never say such pretty

things to me. We were just discussing my

husband. He won't divorce me, you see. And

do you know why?

No.

Because he likes eating off my family silver.

Ah.

I want to bring an action. Just because I'm

supposed to be unfaithful, I don't see why I

have to eat off Pierre's crockery. Look at it.

It's my crockery.

How was Moscow?

Provincial.

INT. SEROZHA'S BEDROOM, KARENIN HOUSE--

Anna, her dress changed, lies on Serozha's bed, on her side, one arm under

his bedclothes scratching his back gently. He lies quietly on his stomach,

with his eyes closed, his face inches from hers. In the dim light of a night-

light she gazes at him for long moments.

She resumes scratching. He grunts contentedly.

She kisses him and continues to lie there, gently scratching. He falls quickly

asleep. She removes her arm and restores his bedclothes.

INT. BEDROOM FLOOR, KARENIN HOUSE--NIGHT

There is a suite of rooms: the Bedroom connects to Anna's Boudoir/Dressing

Room; and thence to Karenin's small Sitting Room/Dressing Room, which

connects to the rest of the house. The rooms--like the whole house-- are lit

by gas lamps but also by candles at key points.

INT. KARENIN'S DRESSING ROOM, SAME TIME--

Korney, the Valet, gathers up a discarded shirt, etc. Karenin in a dressing

gown is reading in a comfortable chair, by a candle lamp. Korney leaves.

INT. BOUDOIR, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Anna is at her bureau. She frowns and tears up the letter she is writing.

INT. DRESSING ROOM, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Karenin looks at the clock-- nearly midnight-- and closes his book. He

blows out the candle. He comes to the boudoir announcing himself with a

smile.

INT. BOUDOIR, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Karenin comes to put his hand on Anna's shoulder.

Anna shakes her head and clasps his hand.

INT. BEDROOM, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Candles each side of the bed. Karenin cracks his knuckles. He unlocks a

drawer and opens a tin box lying in the drawer.

Anna, disrobing, registers these sounds.

Karenin takes a contraceptive sheath, made from animal intestine (re-

usable) from the tin.

Anna blows her candle out and gets into bed.

He comes to bed in his nightshirt.

He gets into bed. Anna waits dead-eyed. Karenin blows his candle out.

INT. KITTY'S ROOM, SHCHERBATSKY HOUSE,

Kitty, a hollow-eyed version of herself, in a demure nightdress, sits upright

on a chaise longue with her legs stretched out. The Family Doctor deferen-

tially removes one of her slippers as though it were an intimate garment.

With a silver "fork" the Doctor tests the sole of her foot for a reflex. Kitty

is miserably going along with a farce she despises.

INT. OUTSIDE KITTY'S ROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

The Prince and Princess are hovering. The Princess flutters with anxiety,

the Prince is in a temper.

But a Celebrity Doctor, as shiny as his own gold watch which he is check-

ing, is bearing down on them, riding over a Footman's attempt to announce

him.

INT. KITTY'S ROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

Kitty is sobbing with shame: the Celebrity Doctor has stripped her to the

waist and is tapping her chest. The Family Doctor can't bear it and excuses

himself.

INT. OUTSIDE KITTY'S ROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

The Family Doctor and the parents are in a huddle. The Prince is apoplectic.

The Celebrity Doctor comes briskly out of Kitty's room, checking his watch.

He's gone. The Prince enters Kitty's room.

INT. KITTY'S ROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

Kitty is humiliated and triple-wrapped against the violation of her bosom.

The Prince is mortified when Kitty's sobs redouble.

INT. ART EXHIBITION, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

The social set Anna now moves in is the brilliant circle with connections

to the Court on one hand and to the demi-monde of artists on the other. A

leading light of this set is Princess Betsy Tverskaya, a rich society beauty.

Betsy's immediate circle includes Tuskevich, her "admirer."

Anna lifts her eyes to see Vronsky in front of her, talking to Betsy. Vronsky

sees Anna and bows. She acknowledges him and kisses Betsy, and moves

on, studying the next picture. Vronsky watches Anna move on. Betsy cocks

an eye at him.

INT. PIANO RECITAL, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

A few rows of chairs in someone's reception room, a mixed audience of guests,

a flashy pianist . . . Betsy with a "toy" dog on her lap, Tuskevich on one

side, Anna on the other.

The dog yaps and sneezes. Betsy hands the dog to Tuskevich, who goes to

exit with the dog. As Tuskevich leaves, Vronsky comes in. Anna sees him.

She turns back to the piano. Betsy glances at her.

EXT. PARK, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

Anna and Betsy, on a bright snow-white day, are being driven through a

park in Betsy's smart equipage . . . towards a horseman walking towards

them: Vronsky salutes the little carriage as it trots by him. Anna keeps

looking straight ahead. Betsy acknowledges Vronsky's salute.

Betsy laughs.

INT. STAIRS AND ENTRANCE HALL, KARENIN

Annushka puts Anna's opera cloak over her shoulders, while Korney stands

ready with Karenin's cloak and opera hat. Karenin comes down the stairs

to join Anna. Kapitonich stands ready to let them out.

Kapitonich opens the door to let them out.

INT. "FRENCH THEATRE," ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

This is a small theatre with a "promenade" area where a group of Guards

Officers of high and low rank mix together to enjoy the chanteuses, the

comedians and the can-can girls. Vronsky is with his Commanding Officer,

Colonel Demin.

The can-can music starts up, to many cheers. Demin claps enthusiastically.

Vronsky is angry.

INT. OPERA HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

An attendant takes Vronsky's coat and gives him a token for it. There is

a performance going on within, resolving into applause as he mounts the

stairs.

Karenin, an escapee looking at his pocket watch, comes down the stairs, goes

down past Vronsky, looks back at him for a moment, and continues.

INT. BETSY'S OPERA BOX--NIGHT

Vronsky enters the box as the performance prepares to resume. It is the

Tverskoy box, occupied by Princess Betsy and her husband, who is likeable,

overweight and, strangely enough, looking at an antiquarian book; wear-

ing white gloves. Vronsky bows to them and sits down next to Betsy. He

takes her opera glasses and looks through them at the Karenin box.

Vronsky watches Anna through the glasses. Countess Lydia Ivanovna is

next to her. Lydia is in her forties, sallow, no beauty, sincerely religious,

and determined.

INT. KARENIN OPERA BOX, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Anna winces a smile.

Anna glances at Betsy's box and sees Vronsky there. The opera resumes.

INT. TVERSKOY OPERA BOX, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Vronsky looks through Betsy's glasses.

INT. BETSY'S RECEPTION ROOMS, TVERSKOY

Discreet Footmen move chairs to accommodate the guests who move to join

one of the conversation circles that make a buzz in the room. Betsy sits by

the samovar with her little court, including Tuskevich. The Guests include

the Princess Myagkaya, stout, red-faced, outspoken, and two Society ladies,

Lisa Merkalova and "Anna's Friend."

Vronsky arrives.

Vronsky looks around. He knows everybody in the room.

EXT. TVERSKOY HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

The Karenin coach arrives. It's Anna arriving at Betsy's. She enters the

house in almost unseemly haste. Several coaches are waiting.

INT. CAB, ST. PETERSBURG, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Vronsky, in a state, lets himself be carried along. Then he changes his mind.

He puts his head out of the window to shout to the Coachman.

INT. BETSY'S RECEPTION ROOMS, TVERSKOY

Anna enters. Faces turn to her. She glances around. She knows at once

that Vronsky isn't there. Betsy beckons to her across the room. Anna, self-

possessed, smiling, nodding to friends, pressing a hand held out to her,

offering the other hand to be kissed, glides through a crowd of Betsy's guests.

Betsy is smoking elegantly. She kisses Anna.

There is a series of minor explosions outside and the darkness out there turns

into an illuminated garden lit by fountains of fire, sprays of light. The

guests react with cries of pleasure and applause.

Anna turns at once to the window near her, puts her face up against the

glass, putting her hands to her temples as if to see the illuminations better.

Her self-possessed face, lit by fireworks, falls apart in misery.

The firework display continues for a short minute and is applauded. Betsy

acknowledges the congratulations and sycophancy which are her due. Foot-

men come through the room with trays of ices.

Anna is still at the window, unaware that there is only darkness outside.

In the room, Betsy notes the oddity: Anna alone with her back to the room.

REVERSE ON ANNA

Anna opens her eyes. She is lost for a moment, perplexed.

Anna turns, understanding nothing.

She sits down. Vronsky takes out a cigarette case. He lights her cigarette.

She tries it and coughs.

Anna smiles. Puffs delicately once.

She gives the cigarette to him.

She looks at him in surprise. He dunks the cigarette in an abandoned dish

of ice cream.

Anna gets up and walks over to Betsy's chair.

Betsy obediently gets up to fill a cup from the samovar. Vronsky follows

Anna. This is watched by more than one guest. Betsy hands the cup

to Anna.

Karenin enters smiling. Lisa Merkalova and Anna's Friend share a

delicious-malicious moment.

As Betsy and Karenin move smilingly to greet each other, Karenin's radar

picks up the two women's intimate laughter.

Karenin remains at apparent ease, as though unaware of people's glances

at Vronsky and Anna, and he kisses Betsy's hand. Princess Myagkaya has

meanwhile gone over to Anna. Anna likes her and is glad of the diversion.

Anna and Vronsky laugh. Princess Myagkaya moves on.

She looks at him and nods slowly, as if in thought.

Betsy diplomatically leads Karenin to Anna.

Anna looks up at her, hearing nothing.

She notices Karenin, who kisses her hand. Vronsky acknowledges Karenin.

He bows to Betsy. Ignoring Vronsky, he turns away.

Vronsky is with one group of guests, Anna with another. She is animated,

excited, at a small table, involved in a game of cards-- which she wins, to

local applause. She speaks a "must go" to Betsy, and swiftly goes to the door.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, TVERSKOY HOUSE--NIGHT

Dressed for outdoors, Anna comes down the staircase. The Doorkeeper sees

her, opens the door and signals.

EXT. TVERSKOY HOUSE, SAME TIME--NIGHT

The Karenin coach moves to the entrance door, which is held open by the

Doorkeeper.

INT. TVERSKOY HOUSE, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Anna hears hurried footsteps on the stairs. She hesitates. She continues

towards the door. Vronsky catches up with her. The Doorkeeper holds the

door open.

EXT. TVERSKOY HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG, SAME

The two horses are restless in the freezing air. Konrad looks to the open door.

Nobody coming.

INT. TVERSKOY HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG, SAME

She turns and goes out. Vronsky follows her.

EXT. TVERSKOY HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG, SAME

Vronsky opens the carriage door for her. She gets into the coach, he closes the

door. He watches the coach go. His face.

INT. KARENIN COACH, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Her face.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, KARENIN HOUSE--NIGHT

Kapitonich lets Anna in.

INT. KARENIN'S DRESSING ROOM, KARENIN

Karenin, reading by candlelight in his dressing gown, hears the sounds of

Anna's return, all the way to her entrance. He cracks his knuckles.

Anna keeps going, to her dressing room/boudoir.

He waits for her to return without her cloak.

I have to warn you about something.

Warn me? It's really rather late . . .

I wish to warn you that you may inadver-

tently, by indiscretion and carelessness, give

the world occasion to talk about you.

I am not a committee. Please say what you

want to tell me.

You and Count Vronsky attracted attention

tonight.

You don't like it when I don't talk to people,

and you don't like it when I do.

I didn't notice anything, myself. But I saw

that everyone else noticed. I consider jeal-

ousy to be insulting to you and degrading

to me. I have no right to inquire into your

feelings. They concern only your conscience.

But I'm your husband and I love you. It's

my duty to remind you that we are bound

together by God, and this bond can only be

broken by a crime against God.

She returns to the boudoir. After a moment he follows.

INT. ANNA'S BOUDOIR, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Karenin finds her in her underwear, throwing aside her dress. He apolo-

gises for that.

Because she wants to undress, Karenin leaves her.

INT. BEDROOM, KARENIN'S HOUSE, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Anna lies in bed next to Karenin, elated.

In the next instant, seemingly in her own bed, she gasps and jerks as though

her body has taken a blow.

The CUTS are now between a fragmented narrative of voracious sex ("SEX AS

BEFORE") and "prelude to sex," this being a sequence of shots starting with:--

EXT. VRONSKY APARTMENT, DAY

Anna arrives, heavily veiled, by cab. She enters the building.

SEX AS BEFORE

INT. VRONSKY APARTMENT, SAME TIME--DAY

Vronsky opens his door to Anna. They don't speak. He takes her hand and

brings her in.

SEX AS BEFORE

INT. VRONSKY'S APARTMENT, SAME TIME--DAY

Vronsky leads Anna through the apartment to the bedroom.

SEX AS BEFORE

INT. VRONSKY'S BEDROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

Vronsky takes off Anna's outer clothes, slowly and carefully, starting with

her hat and veil.

SEX AS BEFORE

INT. VRONSKY'S BEDROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna, in underclothes, unbuttons Vronsky's shirt.

SEX AS BEFORE

INT. VRONSKY'S BEDROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna and Vronsky are standing kissing passionately. He has no shirt.

SEX AS BEFORE

INT. VRONSKY'S BEDROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna ends up half off the edge of Vronsky's bed, climaxing upside down

and falling to the floor. Vronsky, also half off the bed, looks down at her.

He reaches down for her. She grasps hold of his hand, huddled, hugs it to

her, distressed to tears.

He draws her back on to the bed, kisses her face, her shoulder . . .

She tries to leave but he attacks her as a lover, and she gives way, responding.

She starts hitting him.

EXT. SPRING MELT (POKROVSKOE)--DAY

In sunshine, a large chunk of ice loses its purchase on winter and goes

floating along a stream of tiny ice floes between grassy banks almost free of

snow, with early aconites showing.

EXT. POKROVSKOE--DAY

The icy stream flows under a footbridge which has a broken handrail.

Vasili, the steward, is on the bridge with a Carpenter. Levin, on horseback, is

displeased.

Levin rides on, into an expanded prospect of fields and woods, snow on the ground.

When Levin gets in view of the house, he is puzzled by the distant sight of

a three-horse sledge arriving.

INT. DINING ROOM, POKROVSKOE--DAY

The new arrival is Oblonsky, enjoying his food.

Agafia comes in with the roast fowl.

Agafia, leaving, throws Levin a look (no wife).

He waits for this to sink in.

Now it's a row.

EXT. COPSE (POKROVSKOE)-- LAST LIGHT

Levin and Oblonsky, with Laska, wait with their guns, a few yards apart.

Levin has calmed down.

A couple of snipe come drumming over the trees. The men fire simultane-

ously. One snipe falls.

Oblonsky laughs. Despite himself, Levin laughs too. Laska retrieves the bird.

INT. DAY NURSERY, OBLONSKY HOUSE--DAY

Dolly has had her baby. She is holding the infant, having just finished

feeding him. Kitty is with her.

Dolly gives the baby to Kitty, who takes him almost unwillingly. Dolly

buttons herself. Kitty's maternal instinct won't engage. Dolly notes it.

Dolly relieves Kitty of the baby.

Lovingly, she settles the baby in his crib, her face filled with tender joy at

the bargain.

EXT. IDYLLIC COUNTRYSIDE--DAY

A lovers' idyll, by a stream on a warm day. Anna, lightly dressed, smoking

a cigarette, watches Vronsky fill his wineglass from a tethered bottle in the

stream. There is a pony trap which brought them. He comes back to sit by

her. She kisses him.

She laughs and throws her cigarette into the stream.

Anna looks all around. Vast emptiness. She lifts a dock leaf to look under

it. She looks up at the sky.

Anna pushes him onto his back and straddles him.

Anna holds his face between her hands and works her body on him.

Anna drags the front of her skirts out of her way.

She falls on him. He strokes her hair.

Her hand comes into view, the index finger bloody. She carefully paints his

lips with it. She kisses his lips clean, and rolls off him onto her back.

INT. KARENIN'S STUDY, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Korney brings Countess Lydia. Karenin comes from behind his desk to

invite her to a chair.

Karenin waits.

Karenin waits.

Karenin affects surprise.

He smiles at her.

Countess Lydia gets the message. She rises to go. Karenin kisses her hand

and accompanies her to the door. She leaves him, and his social mask gives

way to his disturbance.

INT. DEMIN'S HOUSE, TSARSKOE--NIGHT

The Commanding Officer is throwing a party for his officers: serious drink-

ing, Soldier Servants, a crowded table on the large verandah, Soldier Sing-

ers in white linen tunics performing operetta and folk songs. Vronsky, in

party spirit, is with Petritsky and another friend, Yashvin, singing along.

An officer we don't know is, surprisingly, hailed as "Vronsky!"--he's

Vronsky's elder brother, Alexander. He gestures "Later!" and goes to Vron-

sky. The brothers embrace.

The song ends and Demin, half drunk, climbs on the table, shouts for silence

and a toast.

General uproar. "The regiment."

EXT. DEMIN'S GARDEN, TSARSKOE--NIGHT

On a garden bench where the noise of the party is quieter, Vronsky and

Alexander talk.

EXT. STABLES, TSARSKOE--NIGHT

Vronsky with Alexander beside him clucks his tongue at the black opening

of a stable and calls softly for Frou-Frou. There's a stir within and the

mare's head appears. Vronsky opens the door.

He kisses Frou-Frou.

EXT. MEADOW--DAY

Vronsky sees Anna before she sees him. He pauses to look at her, struck by

her beauty, full of love for her. She is lost in thought.

She has not been expecting him. She is concerned.

He shakes his head: nothing. She comes to him and hides her face in his

breast. He holds her tight, taking her hand and kissing it.

She hugs him, kissing his tunic.

She continues to hide her face. He lifts her face.

Vronsky presses her hand to his face.

He kisses her brow and her eyes.

Anna looks into his face.

She smiles rapturously.

She kisses him deeply.

EXT. MAZE, KARENIN'S RENTED HOUSE,

It's a good maze. Anna and Serozha are running, laughing, between the

hedges. It's a game. She is trying to find her way to him, chasing him. A

hedge divides them. Serozha darts away from her, runs into a dead end,

doubles back. She spots him, follows him, and now he has eluded her again.

Serozha finds his way out of the maze and is confronted by Karenin.

Anna, coming out of the maze, sees Karenin, recovers.

Serozha looks scared to tears. Anna kisses him.

Serozha runs into the house.

Karenin smiles coldly.

Anna returns to the house. She wipes her kissed hand on her skirt.

EXT. THE RACES--DAY

This is a rough-and-ready racecourse but the venue for a high society occa-

sion, with a grandstand for top people and a grander section, ornamented

for greater comfort, for members of the Imperial family. It is also a fashion

parade for some.

The racecourse itself is an oval approached by a straight. There are nine

fences, water-jumps, etc., of various difficulty. The "jockeys" are officers in

the Guards, the Hussars and other regiments.

Among them is Vronsky, attended by a Trainer who is fussing over Frou-

Frou's bridle and calming her. Vronsky looks with interest at a big power-

ful horse which must be Gladiator, with Captain Makhotin already in the

saddle. Makhotin and Vronsky greet each other with a nod.

-- arrives at the races . . . making his way towards the front, smiling,

raising his hat to acquaintances . . . his eyes busy looking for his wife. He

reaches the front and looks up at the Ladies' Stand.

EXT. THE LADIES' STAND, THE RACES, SAME TIME--

Anna and Betsy are here, and, not far away, so are Countess Vronsky and

the Princesses Sorokina: the mother is a fading fortyish; the daughter is

eighteen, blonde and pretty.

Below the ladies section is a planked standing area for gentlemen, who also

may stand to watch the races from the stepped aisle of the seated section.

Soldiers, Horse People and Locals watch from the turf.

A race is flowing towards the winning post, with accompanying crowd reac-

tion, but it is clear from Anna's detachment, exchanging chat with Betsy,

that this is not Vronsky's race.

--looks up to the ladies' stand. Betsy smiles at him in greeting, but Anna

seems unaware.

Countess Vronsky appraises the young princess.

The young princess smiles at her. Countess Vronsky turns her glasses towards

the Starting Post.

EXT. NEAR THE STARTING POST, THE RACES, SAME

. . . Vronsky mounts Frou-Frou. The Riders move to the starting line.

. . . watches Anna who is looking through her glasses towards the Starting

Post while the current race finishes to cheers.

KARENIN, SMILING AROUND, WATCHES AS:--

Anna's anxious attention turns to a horse and rider who fell further

down the course-- and to the ambulance wagon (with a red cross sewn

on it) . . .

Karenin mounts the steps of the aisle, raising his hat to ladies he knows.

Anna ignores him.

On the wooden boards below, where gentlemen are watching, Oblonsky calls

up to Betsy.

In the aisle at the top of the stand, Karenin watches as:--

Vronsky's brother Alexander, escorting his wife, Varya, bows to Anna and

Betsy, but significantly Varya succeeds in not noticing them.

EXT. STARTING POST, THE RACES, SAME TIME--DAY

The riders line up . . . and they're off.

The stands and spectators are distant, the first fence coming at him, horses

on either side. His neighbour falls at the fence but Frou-Frou is clear, with

Gladiator half a length in front. The next fence is coming up. Gladiator

and Frou-Frou jump cleanly but a following horse falls badly.

EXT. LADIES' STAND, THE RACES, SAME TIME--DAY

Spectators on either side of Anna and those behind and in front collectively react.

KARENIN SEES THAT:

Anna reacts not at all. Her gaze through her glasses stays unwavering

on Vronsky. Karenin notes this, and from then on his attention is fixed on

Anna. When the horses come opposite the stand, she lowers her glasses and

follows Frou-Frou taking the lead from Gladiator.

-- eases Frou-Frou past Gladiator. The horses take the next jump.

With one hand Anna grips her folded fan.

Karenin's face is a mask as he watches Anna unconsciously half-destroying

it. She raises her glasses.

ANNA'S POV THROUGH GLASSES

Frou-Frou approaches the last fence with Gladiator half a length behind,

on the near side to Anna.

-- working the reins, rising and falling in rhythm with the horse, looks

ahead to the winning post, and before knowing it he makes an error, losing

the rhythm, dropping back into the saddle and raising the horse's head, just

as Frou-Frou takes off.

ANNA'S POV (THROUGH GLASSES)

Frou-Frou rises, Gladiator rises. Frou-Frou disappears. Gladiator clears

the fence in Anna's foreground. Simultaneously, there are shrieks and

exclamations all around her-- OFF CAMERA-- and the view through

the glasses zigzags in search of Frou-Frou, impeded by horses jumping the

fence.

She lowers the glasses and sees Frou-Frou on the ground, rolling over, and

Vronsky on the ground.

-- sees this, too, her mouth set tight with contempt.

--looks shocked. Almost in the same moment he hears Anna's anguished

cry, conspicuous in the hubbub that follows the crowd's exclamation.

This is adroit. He comes down several steps and pushes through to offer his arm,

but Anna has lost control, trying to escape like a bird beating against its cage.

Anna ignores him, puts her glasses to her eyes, searching out Vronsky.

ON THE COURSE

Vronsky extricates himself from his broken horse and, in terrible recrimina-

tion, tries to pull Frou-Frou to her feet by the reins. Frou-Frou struggles

to get up but her back is broken. Officials, officers, and a doctor have come

running.

. . . sees an Officer hurrying to the Imperial party to report.

Anna relapses into sobs, attempting to hide her face behind her destroyed

fan. Betsy gives Anna her fan.

--is restrained by an Officer.

The Officer takes a pistol from his holster. Vronsky, enraged and in grief,

takes the pistol from him.

--persists with Anna.

He touches Anna's arm. She jerks it away.

A gunshot is heard from the course. Anna turns her tear-streaked face

towards it.

INT. MOVING COACH--DAY

Anna's hysteria has solidified into a blank despair. Karenin seems to want

to pretend that nothing important has happened.

Anna looks at him contemptuously.

Karenin changes tack.

She has raised her voice. He raises a warning finger, and reaches to close the

communication window behind the coachman's box.

Anna smiles faintly. He is misled by that.

Anna looks at him despairingly.

Karenin is literally winded--gasping for breath, slowly getting his breath-

ing under control. Anna huddles away from him in her corner. Karenin

recovers himself only to the point of sitting stock-still, looking at nothing,

not moving.

The coach lurches, unbalancing him so that he is pushed against Anna. He

recoils as if from a contamination.

The coach slows. The coach stops. A Servant comes to the coach door, opens

the door.

The Servant backs off.

Anna gets out of the coach and runs into the maze.

EXT. MAZE--NIGHT

Anna comes to Vronsky. She is still shaken by the showdown with

Karenin in his coach, but is now overtaken by concern for Vronsky after his

fall.

Vronsky shakes his head. He is moved by the sight of her, full of love and

desire, but in her embrace he detects something new, a nervous exaltation.

Vronsky lifts her face, strokes her cheek. He waits.

He embraces her for that, relieved, grateful, loving--understanding that

she is not going to give him up.

INT. (ST. PETERSBURG)--NIGHT

Imperial hands (the Tsar's for all we know) place over Karenin's head a

broad red ribbon from which hangs a heavy medal. Karenin bows low.

INT. IMPERIAL SALON, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

At an ornate doorway a Major-Domo announces.

Karenin, wearing his medal, and Anna smile their way into a party, to a

patter of polite applause. Further grandees are being announced, but are not

applauded . . . Prince and Princess Berghatskoy . . . Ambassador Chamber-

lain . . . Baron and Baroness Verdlov . . . Prince and Princess Tverskoy . . .

Betsy draws Anna away for a moment.

INT. SEROZHA'S BEDROOM, KARENIN'S HOUSE--

Anna, in the same dress, kisses Serozha tenderly so as not to wake him, and

leaves the room.

INT. BEDROOM LEVEL, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Anna enters the suite where Karenin, in his dressing gown, puts down his

book. He is elated by his evening.

INT. BEDROOM, KARENIN HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--

Anna is in bed. Karenin is getting ready for bed. Anna listens apprehen-

sively to the little noises of Karenin's pre-coital preparations.

Karenin stares at her. He turns back to the open drawer and puts things

back the way they were. He locks the drawer. He puts on his dressing gown

and leaves the room. Anna waits a moment and follows him.

INT. SITTING ROOM, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--

It's dark. Anna hears the crack of his knuckles and can see him faintly,

sitting in the dark.

EXT. HAYMAKING (KASHIN)--DAY

A prospect: next to a country road, a large expanse of meadow is being

mown forty swathes at a time by forty mowers swinging their scythes almost

in unison.

CLOSER--Levin is suffering but keeping up, bathed in perspiration. His

place is behind an old man, Theodore, who is scything as if without effort.

Just in time for Levin, Theodore calls a halt and takes Levin's scythe to

sharpen it with a whetstone. Levin attracts a few grins and comments.

Levin's row has stalks of differing heights between the even swathes on

either side. There is some laughter, but the men are uneasy.

EXT. HAYMAKING (KASHIN)-- SUNDOWN

It's time to stop for the day. More tomorrow. The Mowers with their scythes

walk back across the large meadow of cut swathes. From the other direc-

tion, a crowd of Village Women are coming to meet them carrying food and

drink.

EXT. HAYMAKING (KASHIN)--DUSK

A fire has been lit. The Mowers eat their meal in the company of women.

Serafina tends to a cooking pot in the firelight. Levin watches her discreetly.

He has settled down at a discreet distance from the men. His attention

is caught by a grown-up Boy and his young Wife who have chosen to sit

slightly apart. He is charmed by them, watching the girl serve her husband.

Theodore comes to Levin with a jug. Levin takes a swig.

The men don't like me for it.

They like what they're used to.

It settles me.

How is that, master?

When I'm mowing, I don't ask myself why

I'm here.

You're here to be master, Konstantin Dmi-

trich, to be your father's son, and father to a

son who will be master after you, as it has

always been by the grace of God.

My father owned you, Theodore. My grand-

father owned your father. Owned you like

chattels, to be bought and sold. Was that by

the grace of God?

It was. Those were good times when your

father had the keeping of us. That's my

youngest you were looking at there. His

young life is perilous now since the Free-

dom came and work must be found.

Levin is abashed, found out.

EXT. HAYMAKING (KASHIN)--NIGHT

Night under the stars. Some of the men have gone, some have settled in for

the night. The cooking fire is burning out. Levin remains where he was,

watching, thinking: drawn to "the simple life."

EXT. HAYMAKING (KASHIN)--DAWN

Levin wakes . . . woken by hoofbeats and the jingle of harness.

Levin sees a coach coming towards him. The coach comes nearer, leather

boxes strapped to the roof.

Levin sees that a young woman is looking out of the side window, holding

on to the white ribbons of her bonnet. He sees that it is Kitty, on her way to

Ergoshovo. (Princess Shcherbatsky is also inside, dozing.)

The coach passes on, leaving Levin lovelorn, the dawn light on him. The

sight of Kitty has turned him round again.

INT. STATION, ST PETERSBURG--DAY

Vronsky stands at the entrance to the platform holding a bouquet, waiting

for a train. He looks pretty fed up.

INT. "FRENCH THEATRE," ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

As before, the set-up is a small stage, a small auditorium, and an area for

drinking, cruising, etc., a combination of music hall and a bar with a few

tables. Vronsky is here as the escort of a Foreign Prince (an Indian), watch-

ing a "risque" show with Can-Can Girls, much relished by the visitor.

Vronsky's glance casts about in the gloom. The champagne is flowing. Vron-

sky spots a trio--Lisa Merkalova, Betsy, and Stremov, a politician and

Karenin's rival.

Vronsky catches Betsy's eye. She beckons him. He excuses himself to the

Foreign Prince, who doesn't notice, and goes over to the other table. Under

the music, he is introduced to Stremov, and kisses the hands of the women.

He takes the empty chair.

At which moment, Makhotin appears at the table. Vronsky relinquishes

his chair.

Vronsky bows to the women.

Vronsky freezes in anger.

Lisa and Stremov are enjoying it. Vronsky turns away. The Foreign Prince

is applauding enthusiastically when Vronsky rejoins him.

INT. BEDROOM, VRONSKY'S FLAT, ST. PETERSBURG--

Vronsky wakes. He has fallen asleep in his clothes. A note has been deliv-

ered, propped up by the bed. He reaches for it.

EXT. KARENIN HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

A cab brings Vronsky. The Karenin coach is waiting outside. As Vronsky

approaches the door, it opens and Kapitonich comes out with a folded rug.

Kapitonich is wrong-footed by seeing him. Karenin comes out of the door,

into the gaslight. When he sees Vronsky he hesitates for a fraction but con-

tinues. Kapitonich is holding open the door of the coach. Vronsky bows,

Karenin, expressionless, touches his hat and gets into the coach, taking the

rug. Vronsky walks into the house as the coach moves off.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Kapitonich comes in, closing the door. Vronsky gives him his hat and coat.

Kapitonich is uneasy. A Footman comes from a service door. He sees Vron-

sky and looks to Kapitonich.

Kapitonich nods to the Footman.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Anna, six months pregnant, is seated almost formally. The Footman lets

Vronsky in and retires closing the door. Anna runs to Vronsky.

He holds her, calming her, hushing her.

He leads her into a Winter Garden conservatory off the Reception Room.

She kisses him all over his face.

Anna flares up again.

Anna gives a gasp. She laughs.

INT. COMMITTEE CHAMBER, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

"The Committee" is in session. Stremov has the floor. He is referring to a

map of Russia on an easel, splotched with colours. Karenin is there but not

listening, his thoughts far away.

All turn to look at Karenin, who sits staring at nothing, unaware even of

the pause. He wakes. For a beat he hardly knows where he is.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, KARENIN HOUSE--NIGHT

Kapitonich lets Karenin in. Karenin is brisk.

Karenin goes up the staircase. There is an urgency in him, a fury.

INT. ANNA'S BOUDOIR, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Karenin walks in and goes to her bureau, empties out little drawers and

receptacles, looking for the key to the main drawer. Anna comes in from the

bedroom, alarmed, in her nightdress.

He pulls furiously at the locked drawer, then looks around for an implement.

Karenin finds an iron bootjack. Anna tries to stop him. He pushes

her aside and smashes the wood around the lock, then, struggling against her,

he takes from the open drawer a pretty cardboard box, a good guess. He

confirms that it contains letters.

Karenin looks at her with contempt.

He walks out with the box of letters.

EXT. STREET, MOSCOW--DAY

Oblonsky arrives outside his office building in a cab. He enters.

INT. GOVERNMENT BUILDING, MOSCOW--DAY

Saluted by the Hall Porter, Oblonsky mounts a semi-grand staircase and

arrives at the entrance to his department. He goes in.

INT. OUTER ROOM, OBLONSKY'S OFFICE, SAME

Levin stands up in his almost new, hardly used coat, top hat and boots.

Levin smiles, hopefully, sheepish.

It's a reprise. Oblonsky understands. He seizes Levin and kisses him.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE--NIGHT

A small group. Dolly is playing the piano. Kitty turns the pages for Dolly.

The old Prince Shcherbatsky and the Princess are with Countess Nordston

and Oblonsky.

Kitty, keeping half an eye on the door, sees Levin enter and misses the page-

turn. Oblonsky goes to greet Levin.

Levin, puzzled, bows to her and to the Prince and Princess, who are respec-

tively pleased and making the best of it, and then to Dolly who approaches.

Levin is shaken. Dolly leads him to Kitty, who is frightened, shy and

shamefaced. Dolly leaves them.

They are both embarrassed by the wrong step.

Kitty looks up at him, decoding. They gauge each other shyly.

But Matvey at that moment presents Oblonsky with a visiting card on a

salver. Oblonsky reads it.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, OBLONSKY HOUSE, SAME

The new arrival is Karenin. Oblonsky is pleased.

INT. DINING ROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE--NIGHT

Dinner for eight-- clockwise, Oblonsky, Countess Nordston, Prince Shcher-

batsky, Kitty, Karenin, Dolly, Levin and Princess Shcherbatsky.

Two Servants and Matvey serve at the table, clearing away the "carp with

asparagus." The Princess is challenging Karenin.

Oblonskky attempts to divert the conversation.

But Karenin ignores him. Oblonsky looks on helplessly.

Karenin remains cool.

Levin is nettled to find that he seems to have made a joke, for the Countess

especially. Kitty remains serious, watching Levin, loving him.

Reconciliatory laughter eases the atmosphere. Levin feels abashed at coming

out of his shell. He steals a glance at Kitty and finds her looking at him.

She smiles at him and drops her eyes.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE--NIGHT

The dinner party settles in.

Dolly and Karenin sit knee-to-knee in a corner.

Levin and Kitty are at the card table, with a spillage of the alphabet pieces.

KITTY AND LEVIN

Levin sorts through the alphabet pieces as though he is putting off the

moment, but he quickly puts four letters spaced out in a row: D N M N.

Kitty tries.

Levin adds an I next to the D.

Levin shakes his head. He adds an E next to the second N. Kitty concentrates.

Levin nods. Kitty puts letters in place. They read DID NO MEAN

NEVER.

Levin looks into her eyes.

Kitty finds letters and presents Levin with T I D N K. Levin adds NOW

to the K. Kitty nods. Levin adds OT to the N. Kitty nods.

Levin adds an O to the D. Kitty shakes her head. She puts an H after the T.

Dolly, looking across the room, sees Kitty and Levin serious and smiling,

rapt.

Levin places extra letters: THEN I DID NOT KNOW. Kitty nods.

Kitty finds C Y F A F.

Kitty nods.

Levin puts down I L Y.

He looks up to see silent tears streaming down her face. His own eyes flood.

EXT. STREET, MOSCOW--NIGHT

Karenin walks away from the Oblonsky house. He lifts his face to meet the

snowflakes. He looks tortured. Snow melts on his face like tears. He takes

from his wallet a telegram.

CLOSE UP TELEGRAM:

He stands in the snow, uncertain.

INT. TRAIN (MOSCOW TO ST. PETERSBURG)--NIGHT

Karenin sits like a statue.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Karenin is let into the house by Kapitonich.

Karenin, going to the stairs, sees Vronsky's cloak and cap on the coat stand.

INT. BEDROOM LEVEL, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Karenin comes up the staircase. When he reaches his dressing room he hears

Anna shouting for "Alexei" in her delirium. He hesitates. Anna shouts the

name again. Karenin enters Anna's boudoir.

INT. ANNA'S BOUDOIR, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Karenin sees Vronsky sitting with his hands over his face. Vronsky jumps

up in confusion.

Karenin looks at him coldly and enters the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Anna is not seeing or hearing, struggling against the Doctor and the Mid-

wife, while Annushka holds her hand.

In her delirium, Anna keeps up a bright prattle.

Annushka gives way to Karenin, who kneels by the bed, taking Anna's

hand.

Annushka hurries out.

Karenin gazes at her. He looks at her as he's never looked at her.

Karenin tries to speak but cannot. He starts making shushing noises as to a

baby. She quietens down. She seems to recognise him.

INT. BOUDOIR, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--DAY

Vronsky hears her calling. He comes into the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--DAY

Vronsky covers his face, unmanned. The Doctor nods to the Midwife--

"Leave them alone." They leave.

Karenin pulls Vronsky's fingers, and holds on to Vronsky's hand.

Anna is asleep. Karenin is alone with her. The crisis seems to be over. She

opens her eyes.

Karenin puts his face down to her shoulder. She strokes him.

Anna closes her eyes and sleeps again.

BOUDOIR, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--DAY

Karenin comes in. Vronsky is there. He looks up abjectly.

Karenin nods and sits next to him.

Karenin stands up and offers his hand. Vronsky grasps it and starts

shaking.

Karenin embraces him, comforting him.

INT. VRONSKY FLAT, ST. PETERSBURG

Vronsky arrives back at his flat . . . and finds his mother waiting for him

in his sitting room.

INT. BEDROOM, VRONSKY FLAT--DAY

For the first time, Vronsky is wearing civilian clothes . . . looking reflect-

ingly at his uniform hanging in his wardrobe. He places his cavalry cap

carefully on a shelf and closes the wardrobe.

INT. BEDROOM, OBLONSKY HOUSE, MOSCOW--

Levin is half-dressed in clothes to be married in, assisted by Matvey and

watched over by Oblonsky, who is in wedding clothes. Levin is frantic.

Oblonsky is perplexed. Matvey is unflappable, holding Levin's coat ready

and following him around.

Levin snatches the coat and puts it on, and dashes out of the room.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, SHCHERBATSKY HOUSE--

Levin, in disarray, is let into the house. The entrance hall is crowded, loud

and chaotic with children, maids, governesses and Kitty's mother. Tanya,

Masha and Lili are bridesmaids. Grisha is a page. Princess Shcherbatsky,

trying to create order among last-minute bouquet distribution, hair-

adjustments, shoe-changing, etc., sees Levin and explodes.

Levin gallops up the stairs.

INT. KITTY'S ROOM, SHCHERBATSKY HOUSE--DAY

Kitty, dressed for the church, is whispering into the crack of the bedroom door.

INT. OUTSIDE KITTY'S ROOM, SAME TIME--DAY

Levin hesitates, desperate.

They link hands through the opening, each with a hand to kiss.

OVER-- CHURCH ORGAN MUSIC

INT. CHURCH--DAY

A mere fragment of a long and ornate marriage ceremony . . .

The grizzled Priest lights two decorated candles, holding them askew in his

left hand, and he uses his right hand to touch Levin and, more tenderly,

Kitty. He gives the couple the candles, Kitty taking hers in her gloved hand.

Levin looks blissfully at Kitty.

The Priest lifts crowns from their heads, and invites them to kiss each other,

relieving them of their candles.

The Choir bursts with pride.

INT. NURSERY, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

The baby girl, two months old, is being fed by a Wet Nurse. Replete, the

baby is given over to the Nursemaid who lays the child in her crib.

Karenin watches all this. The women ignore him: they are used to him

now, and Karenin is harmless. Karenin stares fascinated at the baby, who

stares back.

INT. BOUDOIR, KARENIN HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--

Anna stares at herself in the mirror. The act of raising a pair of scissors is

an effort. She isolates a thick lock of her hair, and snips it off.

INT. BEDROOM, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Anna's hair is short all over. She sits up in bed, listening to Princess Betsy,

who has brought the current gossip.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Karenin enters and sees a glamorous Footman standing in the entrance

hall, holding a white fur cape.

INT. BEDROOM LEVEL, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Karenin approaches the bedroom door.

INT. BEDROOM, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna sees Karenin who is about to retreat.

Karenin bows to her and kisses Anna's hand.

Betsy kisses Anna.

Karenin follows Betsy out. Anna gives in to a moment of grief, and recovers

herself when she hears the crack of Karenin's knuckles. He comes in.

I have just said so, so there's no need to

repeat it.

But it is for you to decide.

Yes, and I decided.

Then I am very glad that--

That we agree, so perhaps we can stop talk-

ing about it.

Of course. Is there anything I can do for

you?

Yes, can you please please please stop crack-

ing your knuckles.

I'm a bad woman. But I can't breathe. Your

kindness which I can't repay, and your

You begged me for my forgiveness.

But I didn't die and now I have to live with

it! If only you would have gone on hating me.

But then--what? What? What do you want?

Do you know what you want?

Do you want to see Count Vronsky?

Not to say goodbye.

I can't hear.

Not to say goodbye.

You would be lost. Irretrievably lost. You

would have no position. And worse if we

divorce. You would be the guilty party.

That means you cannot legally remarry.

Your union with Count Vronsky would be

illegitimate, and so would your daughter

who now has the protection of my name.

And that is what you want! It would be a

sin to help you destroy yourself.

You forget something. Count Vronsky and I

love each other.

And this love sanctifies a criminal folly?

It's the crux for Anna, and she is prepared for it.

Karenin can see where this takes him.

EXT. ROAD BRIDGE, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

Two coaches, each with considerable luggage, have a rendezvous, one coach

on the bridge.

INT. COACH, SAME TIME-- DAY

Anna is holding Baby Anya. Annushka and the Nurse are with her.

INT. SECOND COACH, SAME TIME--DAY

Vronsky, in civilian clothes, is alone, looking anxiously out of the window.

INT. COACH, SAME TIME-- DAY

Anna gives the baby to the Nurse, as the coach halts.

EXT. ROAD BRIDGE, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna gets out of her coach and runs the few yards to Vronsky's coach. He

opens the door for her.

INT. SECOND COACH, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna is kissing Vronsky's face and being kissed, weeping, smiling.

INT. BEDROOM ("THE SOUTH")--DAY

Early morning. In a big untidy bed, Vronsky and Anna lie asleep, naked

and satiated. The style of the room, and the warmth of the light, tell of

the journey made, confirmed by the view from the window, an attractive

panorama from an elevation above the sea. In the room, there are open,

unpacked or partly unpacked trunks and cases, and, abandoned untidily,

Anna's and Vronsky's clothes.

INT. KARENIN'S STUDY, KARENIN HOUSE--DAY

Slyudin is in attendance on Karenin at his desk.

A respectful cough at the door reveals an obsequious male Shopkeeper. Kar-

enin is bewildered.

Karenin is stricken into immobility, his face hiding in one propped-up hand.

A tear falls on the blotter. Slyudin rescues him, ushering the Shopkeeper out.

Countess Lydia arrives in full fluttering cry.

He clasps both her hands and kisses them. Lydia falls to her knees.

EXT. SNOWY COUNTRYSIDE, POKROVSKOE, SAME

The sleigh brings Levin and Kitty home through deep snow all around. The

house comes into view.

They have been on honeymoon travels, attested by hotel labels on the lug-

gage. Kitty, eager and anxious, looks at the approaching house. Not too

bad. Levin takes her hand. She smiles at him, to calm him.

EXT. THE HOUSE, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--DAY

Agafia and Vasili come out on the porch. The house has been painted, the

window frames smartened up, and paper flowers are tied to the posts of

the porch. The sleigh pulls up. Levin carries Kitty through the snow to the

porch. Agafia bobs. Vasili bows.

Kuzma sidles by with a bow and goes to take the luggage from the sleigh.

INT. SITTING ROOM, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--

Levin shows Kitty in. He is immensely relieved. It never looked better. At

the same time he realises that Agafia is agitated: a word in private.

Kitty nods, smiles gamely--it's not like home.

Agafia panics.

Levin follows Agafia out.

INT. STAIRS, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--DAY

Agafia follows Levin up the stairs. She is outraged.

INT. GUEST BEDROOM, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--

Levin enters the small bedroom. Agafia waits outside.

Nikolai is in the bed-- wasted, near death. He lies in squalor. Masha is

wiping his face. She stands up at Levin's approach. Levin bends over Niko-

lai, presses his gaunt hand. Nikolai opens his eyes.

Nikolai sighs and closes his eyes. Levin retreats, looks to Masha.

Levin goes outside to Agafia and closes the door.

INT. OUTSIDE GUEST BEDROOM, POKROVSKOE,

An unwelcome thought strikes Levin.

Agafia nods guiltily.

INT. SITTING ROOM, POKROVSKOE--DAY

Kitty has remained. Levin, in miserable agony, is sitting holding her

hand.

Kitty detaches herself abruptly and leaves the room. He hears her going

upstairs. After a moment, he follows.

INT. OUTSIDE GUEST BEDROOM, POKROVSKOE,

Kitty comes out of the Guest Bedroom.

Kitty goes back into the room and returns at once with a chamber-pot which

she thrusts at Levin.

She goes back into the room and doesn't return. Levin, humbled, goes down

the stairs.

INT. GUEST ROOM, POKROVSKOE--DAY

Nikolai has been stripped. Masha washes his body. Kitty enters with her

arms full of clean linen.

Nikolai lies naked in clean sheets. Masha hauls him up into a sitting posi-

tion. Kitty puts a nightshirt over his head. Nikolai protests feebly.

Masha and Kitty pull the nightshirt over his body. Kitty pulls the sheet up

over him. Masha adjusts the fresh pillow. She combs his hair (and beard).

Nikolai lies quietly in a neat bed in the neat room, with medicine and

water jug, etc., tidily by the bed. Masha keeps vigil by candlelight, holding

his hand, singing to him quietly.

INT. BOYS' ROOM, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--DAY

Levin comes into the room he shared with his brother. The room has been

abandoned for years . . . two bare beds, a washstand, a wooden chest. It

contains a jumble of books, shoes, a pair of skates.

Levin hears sleigh bells arriving.

EXT. THE HOUSE, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--DAY

The sleigh draws up, bringing a Priest.

INT. GUEST ROOM, POKROVSKOE--DAY

Levin, feeling out of place, is at the washstand. He notices there is a prettily

wrapped new cake of soap. He picks it up and puts it to his nose.

Masha and Kitty are kneeling by the bed. The Priest bends over Nikolai

holding up an icon in front of Nikolai's face and murmuring the prayers.

Levin, embarrassed, puts down the soap and comes forward and kneels too.

Nikolai is at the point of death. Levin stares, torn between the mystery

and the lack of mystery, the ordinariness of the body finally wearing out.

The death rattle comes. Masha kisses the dead hand. The Priest continues

to murmur. Kitty takes hold of Masha's hand. Levin stares into Nikolai's

face: if this is death, what is life?

Nikolai lies dead, candles burning at his head and feet.

INT. DINING ROOM, POKROVSKOE--DAY

Levin counts money, for the services of the Priest . . . who is eating bread

and soup.

He offers a handful of paper money.

He shrugs and puts the money away, and returns to his soup.

EXT. GRAVEYARD, POKROVSKOE--DAY

The snow is almost gone. Nikolai's grave has flowers strewn on the mound.

EXT. THE HOUSE AND YARD, POKROVSKOE--DAY

Pava's yearling and several more calves, delirious with release, mill through the

yard with the herd, to pasture, with a Herdsman and Laska urging them on.

Masha is leaving, alone behind the Coachman. She sits quietly and doesn't

look back. Levin and Kitty watch her drive away.

INT. GOVERNMENT BUILDING, SAME TIME-- DAY

Lydia hurries along grand deserted hallways. She knows her way. A door

ahead of her opens and a dozen Politicians and Civil Servants carrying

portfolios cross her path, with Stremov at the centre of their unheard conver-

sation. Stremov is smiling, triumphant.

Lydia expects to see Karenin among them. She hurries on to the door they

came from.

INT. COMMITTEE CHAMBER, SAME TIME--DAY

When Lydia enters, Karenin, alone in the chamber, is sitting immobile,

defeated. He starts gathering his papers. Lydia comes to him. Her agitation

explained, she takes an opened letter from her bag.

Karenin accepts the letter and reads it.

EXT. TOY SHOP, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

Anna is looking into the display window of a toy shop. She is excited, glow-

ing. She enters the shop.

INT. VRONSKY'S FLAT, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

Returning from the toy shop with a wrapped parcel, Anna comes in. Luggage

is stacked up in the hallway and Franz is unpacking stuff in the main room.

She sees that a hand-delivered letter is waiting for her. She opens it. Anna reads

the letter. For a moment she is devastated by it--but then, furious, she tears it up.

EXT. KARENIN HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

It's very early morning. The street is not awake. A hired cab brings Anna

to her former home. She is heavily veiled, and carries the wrapped parcel

from the toy shop. The cab is to wait for her. She rings the doorbell.

A sleepy Servant opens the big wooden door.

The young Servant doesn't know her. Anna steps past him, pushing money

into his hand.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Kapitonich, pulling on his livery greatcoat, comes to the inner glass door

and lets Anna in. He does not recognise her.

Kapitonich scrutinises her, prepared to forestall her.

Kapitonich peers at her and realises who she is. He steps back and bows.

Anna goes quickly to the stairs.

Anna shakes her head and is almost running away from him. Kapitonich

gives chase.

INT. STAIRS, KARENIN'S HOUSE, SAME TIME--DAY

INT. UPPER LEVEL, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--

Anna dashes past two Housemaids who gape at her, and disappears round

the corner. She's a little mad now.

INT. UPPER STAIRS, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--

Anna, wild-eyed, climbs the stairs and meets the tutor, Vasily Lukich,

coming down, buttoning his waistcoat. Lukich is startled, not knowing her.

Kapitonich reaches these stairs, calling, "Your Excellency . . . !"

INT. TOP FLOOR, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--

Anna dashes for Serozha's door and flings herself through it.

INT. "SEROZHA'S ROOM," KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

It's no longer Serozha's room. A large Woman sits up in bed. She's probably

the Cook. She cries out. Anna reels back. She looks panicked.

Kapitonich catches up, out of breath.

INT. UPPER STAIRS, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--

At the bottom of the Upper Stairs, Lukich, the Housemaids and a couple of

half-dressed Footmen have their heads together. They move aside as Anna

hurries by, seeing nothing.

INT. UPPER LEVEL, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--

Kapitonich catches up with Anna at the door of the "small sitting room."

Anna shakes her head and walks past him, into the room.

INT. BEDROOM, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--DAY

The curtains are drawn closed. The room is dim. Anna sees Serozha sitting

up, yawning, his eyes closed, and falling back on the pillow. She comes to

the bed and whispers his name. Serozha raises himself on his elbow, opens

his eyes and smiles dreamily and falls forward into her arms.

Serozha rubs his face on her neck, falls back on the pillow, only half awake

and going back to sleep. Anna looks at him avidly, touching his forearms,

his shoulders, the hair over his ears. She can't stop her own tears. He comes

awake.

Serozha takes off her hat.

Serozha tears open the package, lifts the lid of the cardboard box and finds

a puppet, a beautifully dressed marionette.

INT. UPPER LEVEL, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME TIME--

Korney, the Valet, among others, has joined the "conference" and is blaming

Kapitonich.

INT. SEROZHA'S ROOM, KARENIN HOUSE, SAME

Lukich cautiously opens the door. He sees mother and son working the pup-

pet and laughing quietly. Lukich backs off. Anna looks round to see the

door closing.

Serozha clings to Anna.

Anna hugs him.

INT. OUTSIDE SEROZHA'S ROOM, KARENIN HOUSE,

The Servants in a huddle look round at the sound of a door, and approach-

ing footsteps round a blind corner.

There is no one in view when Karenin comes around the corner. The Ser-

vants have vanished. He goes to Serozha's door. Anna comes out.

He stops, astonished. Anna looks at him boldly, then pulls down her veil.

Karenin bows. Anna walks past him.

INT. VRONSKY'S FLAT, ST. PETERSBURG--DAY

Anna comes "home" from Karenin's house. The visit has changed her. She

sits down in her hat and coat. Annushka comes in.

Anna shakes her head.

Anna nods.

Twilight. Anna appears not to have moved. The baby is heard crying in

another room. Anna's face remains set, but she reacts on hearing Vronsky

coming in.

He turns on a gaslight.

Vronsky sits next to her and puts his arms round her.

Anna shakes her head.

Anna shakes her head. She stands up at last and takes off her hat.

INT. VRONSKY'S FLAT, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

Yashvin is a welcome visitor.

Yashvin gets the point of that. He is embarrassed.

Yashvin got the point of that, too.

Vronsky shakes his head. Yashvin kisses Anna's hand.

Yashvin laughs and bows himself out.

Annushka comes.

Annushka goes.

INT. OPERA HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

Before the performance, the stairs, galleries and corridors, giving access

to the stalls and boxes, are crowded with the town's highest society. And

Anna, at her most beautiful, is magically cleaving through it. Awareness

of her presence is like a contagion, and yet everyone manages not to catch her

eye . . . so while all around her there are people impeding each other with

greetings, Anna's path opens before her.

She knows what is happening. It shocks her but her eyes barely show it.

The spell is broken by Princess Myagkaya (she of the 85 kopek sauce) who

hails her.

She picks up on the surrounding effect of this, and rubs it in with mischief,

taking Anna's arm.

INT. VRONSKY'S FLAT, ST PETERSBURG--NIGHT

Vronsky sits and broods. Angrily, he changes his mind. He jumps up call-

ing for Franz.

EXT. OPERA HOUSE, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

Vronsky's cab draws up outside the brightly lit, deserted opera house. He

alights.

INT. STAIRS, GALLERY, OPERA HOUSE--NIGHT

Vronsky comes up the stairs. The place is deserted, apart from Atten-

dants . . . one of whom takes Vronsky's cloak and gives him a token.

INT. ANNA'S BOX, OPERA HOUSE, SAME TIME--

On stage, Act One is just ending, and the curtain falls. The applause gives

way to chatter.

Anna sees Vronsky entering on the side-aisle below. He looks up at the

boxes, seeking her. She turns away.

Princess Myagkaya has engaged the attention of Stremov in the neighbour-

ing box.

But Stremov only bows coldly and turns away. Yashvin notes this and

begins to chew his moustache anxiously. Anna's neighbour on the other side,

a meek husband of a battle-axe, admires her openly.

Anna sees that Vronsky has stopped to talk to Countess Vronsky and the

Princesses Sorokina. The young Princess seems animated by Vronsky, who

bows himself away.

Princess Myagkaya sees where Anna is looking.

Anna gives her a smiling but wounded look.

INT. OPERA HOUSE, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Vronsky meets Alexander in the aisle and greets him.

Alexander indicates his seat to Vronsky. Vronsky sits by Varya.

Vronsky is angry and offended. He gets up, bows to Varya. When he looks

up, he sees Betsy beckoning to him from her box.

INT. ANNA'S BOX, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Anna watches Vronsky, sees him acknowledge Betsy's summons.

Anna's neighbour, emboldened, offers her his programme.

The Neighbour's Wife, catching this, reacts as though electrocuted.

INT. BETSY'S BOX, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Princess Betsy is smoking. Prince Tverskoy is examining an ancient book.

Vronsky enters the box. He bows to the Prince, and kisses Betsy's hand.

A grovelling House Manager appears in their midst, to tell Betsy she can't

smoke in the box.

Princess Betsy blows smoke and hands the cigarette, in its holder, to a figure

standing quietly in the shadowy corner of the box: Makhotin. Makhotin

takes the cigarette from the holder, crushes it in his left palm. He feels

humiliated . . . but that's love. The House Manger bows and leaves.

The Angry Wife's voice cuts through the audience chatter.

Vronsky turns round to look. He sees the Husband trying to calm his Wife.

Vronsky sees Anna looking straight ahead. Yashvin is eating his moustache.

INT. ANNA'S BOX, SAME TIME--NIGHT

The scene next door is a social catastrophe for Anna, but she is riding it.

Princess Myagkaya takes her hand. Yashvin shrinks into his corner, morti-

fied. The whole opera house is becoming aware of the "scandal." The Angry

Wife has raised her voice.

INT. NEIGHBOUR'S BOX, SAME TIME--NIGHT

The Husband has succeeded in putting his wife's cloak over her shoulders.

Her exit line is for the benefit of the entire audience.

The Wife and her Husband leave the box.

INT. BETSY'S OPERA BOX, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Vronsky is tormented. He moves to leave the box.

Vronsky knows it and is trapped.

Betsy shrugs.

INT. VRONSKY'S FLAT, ST. PETERSBURG--NIGHT

Angry and upset, Anna sweeps into the flat in her opera cloak. Vronsky

follows her in.

She throws aside her cloak and goes into the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM, VRONSKY FLAT, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Annushka, asleep in a chair, waiting loyally, wakes up.

Vronsky comes in as Annushka goes out. He comes to Anna and puts his

arms round her.

Vronsky makes love to Anna but it's not working for her. Her eyes stray

around. By the bed is a carafe of water, an empty glass and a pharmacy

bottle as dark as ink, with a handwritten label.

EXT. MOSCOW--DAY

High summer. Heat and dust.

INT. TEA SHOP, MOSCOW--DAY

Anna, with some dainty shopping by her, is taking tea in a genteel cafe. Her

eye is caught by a mother and son at another table. The boy is a "Serozha."

Anna misses her son acutely in that moment.

Then Dolly enters the tea shop. Anna's heart lifts for a moment and she

is about to greet her, but then realises that Dolly is one of a trio of "society

ladies," and Anna lowers her head. When she sneaks a look, she catches

one of the ladies whispering to the others. Anna realises that she has been

recognised by a stranger, and is notorious. She "hides" in her purse, finding

money to leave on the table so that she can escape. A sound makes her look

up and she sees that Dolly has sat down opposite her.

Anna nods, words won't come.

She doesn't notice her tactlessness but it lands on Anna, who manages a

smile.

EXT. GRAND HOTEL, MOSCOW--NIGHT

INT. HOTEL SUITE, MOSCOW--NIGHT

Anna, in a nightdress, is awake in the night, staring out of the grand

window of a grand hotel, smoking.

INT. HOTEL BEDROOM, SAME TIME--NIGHT

Anna comes back to bed. Vronsky is asleep. She unstops a pharmacy bottle

(a different one) and pours a draught mixed with water.

INT. BEDROOM, MOSCOW HOTEL--DAY

Anna sleeps alone in the bed. Annushka, after a tap on the door, comes in

cautiously, worried.

Anna sits up.

INT. HOTEL SUITE, MOSCOW--DAY

Vronsky comes in, noting the empty trunks and cases stacked up. Anna

comes from her room to greet him. She is making an effort to be pleasant,

but she looks excited, febrile.

But Anna's mood has turned.

I can't be ready by tomorrow.

The day after, then.

If you like.

No, wait. That's Sunday. I have to see

Maman.

That's twenty minutes away in the train--

you could go to see her tomorrow--or was

it that you wanted to spend Sunday with

Princess Sorokina?

Please don't spoil everything. I can't see

Maman tomorrow because she won't have

read the papers she has to sign. Oh, and

then there's the bank . . . But we can leave

on Tuesday.

In that case, let's not bother. I'll leave on

Sunday or not at all.

That's absurd!

She leaves him, slamming the door.

INT. BEDROOM, HOTEL, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna comes in and lies down on the bed, closes her eyes, sits up, pours a

dose from the medicine bottle by the bed, and lies down. Vronsky comes in.

He takes her hand.

INT. DINING ROOM, HOTEL SUITE--DAY

Anna comes straight from bed. She is drugged and shaky. The room is

empty but there is a coffee tray on the table. Anna feels the coffeepot and

pours herself a cup.

INT. STUDY, HOTEL SUITE--DAY

Vronsky is at his desk. Anna enters with her coffee. Vronsky is reading a

telegram. Seeing her enter, he puts the telegram under his papers.

He controls himself.

Vronsky retrieves the telegram and hands it to her.

Anna tosses the telegram aside unread.

Vronsky is silent with anger. He gets up and goes out, returning with his

hat in his hand.

She remains silent. He leaves again. She lights a cigarette.

EXT. HOTEL BUILDING, SAME TIME--DAY

The Sorokina Coach draws up outside the door. The coach with its crest

and the Coachman's livery (a bright yellow cockade) are highly distinctive.

INT. HOTEL SUITE, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna, with her cup of coffee, comes in and looks down from the window.

Vronsky, hat in hand, at the coach window, accepts a large envelope from a

lilac-gloved hand. He bows. With a wave of the hand and a flash of golden

hair, the coach pulls away. Vronsky goes back inside.

INT. STUDY, HOTEL SUITE, SAME TIME--DAY

With the envelope, Vronsky comes in. Anna is as he left her, the cigarette

stubbed out.

He hesitates, thinking she is about to speak.

She stays silent. He leaves.

INT. BEDROOM, HOTEL SUITE, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna finds Annushka filling several half-filled cases.

She lies down on the bed. Annushka would like to comfort her.

INT. BEDROOM, HOTEL SUITE--NIGHT

Anna is listening for Vronsky's return. She hears him come in. She hears

him approach. Then she hears Annushka's voice, then Vronsky's voice. She

waits in suspense, disappointed as Vronsky's steps retreat.

INT. STUDY, HOTEL SUITE--NIGHT

Anna, holding a candle-lamp, finds Vronsky asleep on the couch. She hesi-

tates, but turns away.

INT. BEDROOM, HOTEL SUITE--DAY

Anna wakes. She re-collects herself. She looks at the bedside clock. In a sud-

den hurry she leaves the bed and the bedroom.

INT. OUTSIDE THE BEDROOM, HOTEL SUITE, SAME

Anna finds Annushka waiting.

Anna collapses on a chair and weeps.

INT. CLOSE (HOTEL)--DAY

Anna's hand writes in a hurry: "I'm to blame. Come home. I'm

frightened."

INT. HOTEL SUITE, SAME TIME--DAY

Anna seals the note and gives it to Annushka.

Annushka runs out with the note.

INT. HOTEL SUITE--DAY

Anna is keeping watch at the window . . . and is rewarded by the return-

ing coach. She hurries out.

INT. STAIRS, HOTEL--DAY

Anna looks down into the entrance hall. Michael, the Coachman, comes in

and comes up the stairs to her. She sees that he is holding her note.

INT. LOCAL TRAIN--DAY

Anna clutches her red bag to her, sitting among passengers.

Anna looks about her. Across the carriage she sees through the window that

her train is overtaking another passenger train on the next line.

She looks at the windows of the other train "going by" . . . seeing the pas-

sengers inside.

Unexpectedly, she seems to see a Man who might be Vronsky sitting opposite

a laughing Woman who might be Princess Sorokina.

Anna's body jerks involuntarily. She half rises. The image, however, is

brief and is borne away, as her own train goes by, accelerating. The win-

dows opposite pick up speed as she leaves them behind--

And then she has the same illusion again-- a "Vronsky" and a "Sorokina"

glimpsed in the other train and snatched away in the instant.

Now she stands up and goes to the opposite window, where the windows

of the other train are flashing by in the (anachronistic) manner of pro-

jected film-frames, and she sees "Vronskys" and "Sorokinas" flashing by at

gathering speed. And then the train has gone and there's nothing going by

but the view.

Anna collapses into the nearest seat.

EXT. LOCAL STATION, SAME TIME--DAY

The train arrives at a small station.

Anna steps down from the train. The platform is well populated by people

waiting to board the train or to meet the arriving passengers. There is an

energy about the people-- shouting, laughter, movement. Porters shout for

custom. A couple of Young Men seem to be laughing rudely directly at her,

but they pass by, ignoring her.

Anna pauses, bewildered, lost, not knowing what to do next.

She sees the Sorokina Coachman on the platform, recognising his distinctive

livery, a cockade in his hat.

Anna turns back, agitated, expecting Vronsky to appear, but what comes

is a Footman carrying three hatboxes and a large box from a dress shop.

Anna walks away, along the platform, impeded by people going by her,

aware that some are staring at her as she passes. A Boy selling drinks grins

at her. A little group of Ladies and Children meeting a bespectacled man

off the train are laughing and chattering but fall silent and look at her. She

increases her pace. She hurries away towards the far end of the platform.

Beyond her, a goods train is slowly approaching. Between her and the train,

two Maidservants are walking towards her. They turn their heads to look

at her, remarking on her dress.

There is a rough bench near the end of the platform. Anna reaches it and

sits down. The two girls turn again to look back at her, and are struck

by the sight of Anna sitting alone in profile. The goods train reaches her

and the first wagon goes past her. The two girls stop and watch, vaguely

puzzled by her.

As they watch, the beautiful woman on the bench gets up and walks the

few steps to the edge of the wooden platform and into the path of the train,

disappearing from view between the wheels of one of the wagons.

EXT. (POKROVSKOE)--DAY

CLOSE--A SCYTHE CUTS A SWATHE THROUGH

EXT. RAILS--THE RED HANDBAG

--lying separate against a rail, is clipped by a rolling train-wheel and

knocked aside, spilling its contents . . .

EXT. (POKROVSKOE)--DAY

A scythe cuts a swathe through standing hay.

EXT. HAYFIELD, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--DAY

It's nearly the last of the hay. The scythe is being swung by Theodore,

known from last year. He is one of a dozen Mowers. Levin is among them,

wielding his scythe. They have almost reached the end of the field, where the

last of the hay is being pitchforked up on to the last piled cart. Theodore's

daughter-in-law, now visibly pregnant, is still adept with a pitchfork.

It's a lowering thundery day at the end of summer.

This stops Levin's scythe. He is illumined.

Theodore swings the scythe again. Levin walks away, gives his scythe to a

Labourer by the cart, and keeps walking. He quickens his pace.

EXT. POKROVSKOE--DAY

The first drops of rain, few and heavy, arrive.

EXT. HOUSE AND PORCH, POKROVSKOE, SAME

Cries of alarm and laughter burst from a Mushrooming Party approaching

the house. Children run ahead, the adults walk faster, then run, helping

with baby carriages and picking up small children and baskets of mush-

rooms . . . urged on from the porch by Agafia.

Levin, coming from the hay field, joins the rout.

The grown-ups are: Levin, Oblonsky, Dolly, the Oblonsky Nurse, Prince

and Princess Shcherbatsky.

The children are: Tanya, Grisha, Masha, Lili and Vasili. Dolly carries

her youngest. The children are eighteen months older than when we first

saw them.

The heavens open as everyone gets under cover.

It is evident from her tone that Kitty and Agafia have made it up long ago.

INT. NURSERY, POKROVSKOE, SAME TIME--DAY

Rain on the window and on the roof. The rain is so loud that it is the

foreground sound in the scene; and the dialogue, while we can pick it out

without difficulty, is the background sound.

Levin enters, wet.

Dmitri (Mitya), two months old, is lying on his back in a basin, supported

by Kitty's palm under his head. Kitty squeezes a sponge over his body,

which he likes.

Kitty lifts Mitya onto a towel on her lap, wraps him and gives him to

Levin, who is enchanted by him.

She picks up her rings to replace them on her fingers.

But the baby starts to yell for the breast. Kitty starts to undo her blouse.

Levin shakes his head: he'll tell her some other time, or maybe not.

EXT. PORCH, POKROVSKOE--NIGHT

The storm has passed. Everything drips.

Oblonsky comes from inside and lights a cigar. Indistinctly seen and heard

through the window, the Mushrooming Party occupies the dining room.

Oblonsky smokes thoughtfully, melancholy.

EXT. FLOWERING MEADOW--DAY

Baby Anya, old enough to stagger on her feet, wavers through wild flowers

half her height. She falls over, almost disappearing.

This is being watched, with a mixture more pleasure than pain, by Kar-

enin. He is in early retirement, sitting with a book in a garden seat, dressed

comfortably under a straw hat. There is the SOUND OVER of people

playing croquet.

Serozha, aged ten, enters his view, going to Anya to haul her upright, and

keeping hold of her hand as she staggers on. Karenin's pleasure increases

slightly.

OVER this, the growing SOUND of a battlefield.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD (BALKANS)--DAY

Vronsky, in an unfamiliar uniform, sabre pointing forward, is mounted at

full gallop with the SOUND of the charge all around him in the smoke and

noise of guns. Something heavy and invisible with its own SOUND--like

the flap of an awning--takes him from his horse into the air and gone,

leaving spouts of blood poised for an instant in the smoke.

EXT. FLOWERING MEADOW, AS BEFORE

Serozha picks up Anya like a parcel under his arm and walks on with her

towards the indistinct figures of Croquet Players strolling in the heat haze,

a couple of parasols held aloft.

FADE TO BLACK.

