FADE IN:

TIGHT CLOSE - JOE THERRIAN - MORNING

He's in his mid-thirties, his face relaxed in sleep,

childlike.  Nestled soundly a tangle in the arms of his wife.

THE CAMERA STAYS CLOSE.  SLIGHTLY BLURRED, SOFT, SLOWLY

SWINGS ROUND

TIGHT CLOSE - SALLY THERRIAN

She's in her mid-thirties, with large deep eyes.  She watches

her husband unguarded in sleep.  Her pretty face, alert,

she's barely breathing.  Traces the just visible lines around

his eyes, and mouth.  Brushes fingertips against his

eyelashes.

TIGHT CLOSE - SALLY'S HAND PULLS THE BEDROOM SHADE.

It retracts with a loud WHACK, sun, sky, trees.

EXT. POOL AREA - DAY

We're in the middle of a yoga lesson.  Joe and Sally stand on

their mats.  Steven, their instructor, wanders around the

couple issuing soft-spoken instructions.

A large room with hard wood floors, dominated by a huge

fireplace.  The dining room on one side, living room on the

other.  Floor to ceiling windows overlook the back porch

garden pool... The house is classic Neutra.  All GLASS and

SMOOTH LINES.

The calm is broken by the telephone.  Joe and Sally ignore it

until the answering machine picks up.  They break their yoga

poses and listen.

The CAMERA hovers over the answering machine.

The machine cuts her off.

NEW ANGLE

Joe and Sally have resumed their positions.  This wasn't the

call they were waiting for.

WIDE SHOT

AMERICA, forty-one, and ROSA, fifty, struggle up the steps of

the back porch carrying grocery bags and packages, come

through the sliding glass door...

THE CAMERA FOLLOWS THEM

Through the dining room and into the kitchen, watches the two

unpack groceries, flowers, etc., and start to dress the

dining room table.  They speak quietly to each other in

Spanish.

America closes the sliding doors between the kitchen and the

dining room, giving the couple their privacy.

Otis, the Bisenji/Sheperd mix, sleeping on his leopard

pillow, stirs, stretches and groans.

The phone RINGS again.

Sally jumps out of the down dog position and runs to the

phone, all angles.

Sally stands with the phone to her ear, her back to Joe.

EXT. POOL AREA - CONTINUOUS

Joe watches her from his position, not concentrating on the

teacher waiting a sign.  Sally returns to the lesson.  They

do their handstands against the wall, on either side of the

front door.

Sally nods, she and Joe, at Steven's instructions, come out

of their handstands and lie on the floor in a stretched

relax, facing one another.

They smile.

America slides open the dining room doors.  The dining table

is covered with bundles of freshly cut flowers.  Rosa is

singing in Spanish.

The CAMERA glances off photos of the couple: portraits and

candids, their wedding day, with friends, on vacation,

tumbling on the lawn, and the like.

Some framed and hung, some taped to the fridge or simply

leaning on a shelf.  It's clear that at least a handful are

by the same photographer, black and whites, grainy and

beautiful.

There are lots of photos of Joe and his sister Lucy,

documenting their relationship from childhood.  There's an

ANNIE LEIBOWITZ photo-shoot of Sally carelessly displayed

somewhere.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

Joe stands behind Sally in front of the full length mirror,

his arms around her, stroking her belly.

They move toward the bed.

She pushes him on the bed.

She does.

He does.

She pulls down his sweats.  She kisses the back of his knees.

He turns, stares up at her.

Sally shakes her head.

They begin to make love...the phone RINGS.

She gets out of bed, starts into the bathroom.  The CAMERA is

with her.

Sally's started the bath, and is watching him from the

doorway.  He meets her eyes mid-sentence.

He rolls his eyes.  Sally walks back into the bathroom, she

isn't buying it.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

The doorbell rings.  There are two closed doors on either

side of the room.  The bed shows no sign of consummated sex.

Joe comes through the left hand door, nearly dressed.

Sally comes through the other door, one shoe off, one on.

NEW ANGLE

Sally kisses his cheek on her way to the door.

Sally exits the bedroom.

HOLD ON JOE

For a moment, then Sally re-enters, kisses him deeply.

INT. FOYER - EARLY EVENING

The house is filled with exquisite flower arrangements,

candles everywhere.

JERRY and JUDY ADAMS are on the porch, just beyond the glass

of the front door.  Their argument is inaudible.  They're in

their mid-thirties, conservatively dressed.  She's stunning,

genetically nervous.  Jerry carries a briefcase.  She's got

the gift.

Sally opens the door.  Hugs and buses them, hello.

Jerry hugs Joe.

Joe moves toward the kitchen.

They step out onto the porch.  Judy's left alone, unsure

whether to follow or not.

She stands awkwardly in the middle of the foyer.

EXT. PORCH - CONTINUOUS

Behind them, in the foyer, Judy wanders aimlessly.

Otis is barking.

The CAMERA catches sight of Joe behind them.  He moves

through the foyer and into the living room with a tray of

glasses and Judy in tow.

She flips the book -- on the back is a full page picture of

RYAN ROSE.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Joe and Judy sit on opposite sides of the sofa -- slightly

uncomfortable with each other.

INT. FOYER

CAL and SOPHIA GOLD are there with their children - JACK and

EVIE - eight and six respectively.  Carrying gifts and totes

with toys and changes.  Jerry and Sally have gathered them up

and ushered them in.

She picks up the four-year-old, swings her around.  Jack

hides behind his father's legs.

The little boy comes out from behind his father's legs,

covers his eyes with his hands.

Much laughter and clapping.

Evie shakes her head.

Joe reaches for the gifts.

Joe goes off with the children to find Otis.  Cal sits at the

piano, plays.

Joe holds Evie in one arm.  Jack stands beside him, holds his

hand.  MONICA and RYAN ROSE face him across the threshold --

the NEXT DOOR NEIGHBORS.  She's in her late twenties - and

beautiful, eyes everywhere - star struck and house struck.

Ryan is somewhat older, a little awkward in company,

swallowing resentment and a little self righteous.

Jack does.

An awkward moment.

Sally has watched some of this from the archway, joins them

super-friendly.

Joe slips the coke into Monica's hand.

NEW ANGLE

MAC and CLAIR FORSYTHE wave from the door.  Clair's arms are

full of presents.  Mac carries three video cameras under his

arm.  He's got Otis by the collar.

A silence.  Awkward smiles go all around.

Sally takes the gifts from her.

Clair takes a glass of champagne off the tray as they make

their way down the hall.

The Roses are happy to stand there on the fringe.  Next to

someone they've only seen on screen and magazine covers.

Clair's not in the least put off by them.  She manages to

smile at them inclusively from time to time.

EXT. POOL AREA

Mac and Cal sit on the porch sharing a joint.  Cal is maybe

the only living complete works of Shakespeare and pulls out

his most arcane quotes on occasion.

MEDIUM FULL SHOT

The CAMERA spots GINA TAYLOR through moving bodies.  Tall,

beautiful, centered grace.  She's got a Leica around her

neck... drops her two large camera bags on the floor.

Several of the other guests greet her, Mac among them.

TIGHT CLOSE

Joe sweeps her up to his arms.  It's an intimate,

appreciative embrace.  Theirs was a mid-30s relationship,

certainly pre-Sally.  Maybe his first important love.

NEW ANGLE

Sophia bursts from the kitchen.

She shakes his hand.  He's amazed at the solid grip.

It's all Monica can do to keep from putting her hand to her

chest.

She ushers them toward the living room.

Sally approaches, gives Gina a warm kiss on the chest.

Joe rips open the gift.  It's a framed black and white of

Joe, Sally and Otis lying on the couch.  It's clear which

photos in the house are Gina's.  It's a breathtaking print,

an amazing caught moment.  All light and shadow.  A touching

study.

Joe, moved somehow, hugs Gina to him.  Kisses her.

Sally's uncomfortable, a little jealous... feels intrusive.

Aware that Gina got there first.  Knew him when.  And always

captures something naked and vulnerable in his face.

INT. GUEST ROOM - CONTINUOUS

In the center of the room a low table with paints and crayons

and glue and baubles.  Two child size chairs either side.

Empty, the table hasn't been touched.

Evie stands against the far wall.  She wears a helmet and is

surrounded by toy suction arrows.  The arrows make a perfect

outline of her head and body.  Jack stands three feet away,

bow in hand -- the archer prepares his next shot.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Cal is at the piano, charming the neighbors.  Judy chats with

Mac.  Jerry is on his cellphone, holding his Palm Pilot, his

hand pressed against his ear to block out the chatter.  Sally

joins Cal on the piano stool.  Sophia moves to Clair on the

couch, kisses her cheek.

She inadvertently touches the beeper on her belt, and it

beeps.  She jumps.

Sophia sends her a soft, content smile.  Otis comes over and

nuzzles Clair's knee.

INT. KITCHEN/HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Clair leads Sally towards the bedroom.

INT. FOYER - LEVI PANES THROUGH THE GLASS DOOR - DAY

A Peter Sellers look-a-like holding a violin case.

Sally starts down the hallway.

Sally takes Panes into the living room where everyone chats,

drinks, smokes.  They all like each other out of habit, if

nothing else.  Ryan and Monica are on the fringe, stand at

the edges of conversation.  There's always someone at the

piano, and they can all pretty much play.

Everyone stops, turns, toasts.

Panes gives them another little wave.  Doorbell rings.

TIGHT CLOSE - SKYE DAVIDSON

She's the young, beautiful actress who'll play the lead in

Joe's film.

She's in jeans, but somehow looks dressed to the 9s.

Joe grins from ear to ear.  Uncharacteristically star struck

in front of this beauty.

There's a long moment.

Sally and Panes have been watching from the living room.

INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

America and Rosa are working at the counter, Panes and Sally

come through.

Skye bursts into the kitchen, Sally and Panes freeze.

Joe enters the kitchen, watches.

Joe winces, uncomfortable, picks up the bottle of wine and

leaves.

Panes steers Sally out of the kitchen.

They go.  Skye is left in the kitchen alone.

INT. FOYER - MEDIUM CLOSE

Sally and Panes start down the hall in search of privacy.

She moves past them.

The CAMERA follows them into the bedroom.  They flop down

onto the bed and into FRAME.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

More guests have arrived.  Sophia and her children play with

Otis.  America and Rosa pass round hot hors d'oeuvres.

Joe places Gina's photo on the mantelpiece.

Joe laughs.

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

He rolls out from under her swat, she misses him.

They lie prone across the bed, about a foot apart.

Contemplating the floor.

She takes his hand.  Sounds of the party come from below.

But neither of them moves.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

SANFORD JEWISON is at the piano playing his own stuff,

oblivious to the din.  The CAMERA gets a glimpse of Ryan

through the French doors at the pool, alone, a glass of

Perrier in his hand.

MEDIUM CLOSE

Monica alone, uneasy, starts to pour herself a glass of

champagne.  Jeffrey gets to the bottle first.

EXT. POOL - CONTINUOUS

Judy Adams lost herself a little, steps outside, sits

alone...

INT. MUSIC LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

A small, narrow room.  Not much more than an alcove.  With

space for a desk, stereo equipment, and shelves packed with

CDs.  The topmost shelf is a line of record albums.

Joe's picking through the CDs.  Monica wanders in from the

living room, toting a glass of champagne... watches him for a

moment.

Her eyes well with tears.

Monica starts to laugh.

It appears she's consumed more than one glass of champagne.

She feels they've bonded.  She pulls a well-thumbed copy of

Joe's novel from her purse.

Monica giggles, presses back the bubble rising in her chest

and moving toward her throat.  Manages not to burp.

He moves towards the doorway, Monica at his heals.

INT. DAILIES ROOM - LATER - DAY

Sally's team prepares clues for charades.  Sally writes them

down, throws them in a bowler hat.  Her teammates are Panes,

Sophia, Mac, Ryan, Sanford and Jeffrey.

Ryan spots his book on the shelf and pulls it out, delighted.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Joe's team works on it's clues.  Teammates: Gina, Cal, Clair,

Skye, Monica, Jerry and Mary-Lynn.  Everyone is talking over

each other and fighting for attention.  There are a lot of

strong personalities here.

There's a hush.

Pause.

He writes it down.

People hoot, throw their cocktail napkins.

They all start talking on top of each other again.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

The teams have come together.

Mac raises his hand on Sally's side, Jerry on Joe's.

She offers the hat.

Panes reaches into the hat.

Joe whispers to him.

Panes mimes a belly laugh.

Panes sighs.

He belly laughs.

A finger to his nose - elongate the word.

Panes does an "ON THE NOSE."  Gets on all fours.  Licks his

paws.

The team applauds delight.  Panes preens.  Joe's team looks

over at Monica.

Jerry reaches into the hat.  Looks at the clue.

He gives the clue "a song."

He gives "cycle."

Jerry goes to work on "sounds like" for the word Jewish.

Strokes beard, thinks, tries "sounds like" again.

Jerry does the sign for the "short word."

Jerry shakes his head.  Goes to the third word.

Jerry pulls his ear, "sounds like".  Slides his finger

through the O created by his thumb and forefinger.

he does the finger sign again.

Jerry gives them "on the nose."

Jerry turns, gives them a dirty look.

He strokes his beard again.

Jerry looks at her, amazed.  She stands, throws hands up in

triumph, does a little victory circle.

The CAMERA CUTS through the rest of the game, aggressive,

competitive, verging on hostile.  Sally is often aching from

laughter, tears streaming down her face.

CLOSE SHOT

Gina giving clues starts to laugh.

Gina loses it, cracks up.

Jeffrey's on his feet, giving the clue.

Cal gives her a little wave from the other side.

Cal blows her a kiss.

Gina's been taking shots through the course of the game, and

the FRAME will freeze black and white on one of another

delicious moment.  There's a spectacular shot of Sally,

unaware, laughing, sad soft eyes on Joe.

MEDIUM CLOSE - AMERICA

She watches the game from the archway, waits for a break.

Sky's up.  Joe's team yells frantic guesses.  Jerry's

suicidal.

Sally's team watches, self-satisfied, throw barbed asides.

Evie and Jake run along the side of the house.  Behind the

glass walls the CAMERA catches adults moving through the

living room and into the dining room.

INT. DINING ROOM - MAGIC HOUR

Most everyone's moved through to the dining room.  The table

is filled with platters of beautifully prepared food.

Candles, flowers.

ASTRID, newly arrived, carrying a miniature furball, of

questionable breed, is first in line and halfway around the

table.  She feeds "Anouk" bits from the table enroute.

The furball bares teeth and growls.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MEDIUM CLOSE ASTRID - NIGHT

She slips another morsel into Anouk's mouth, murmurs baby

talk, allows the dog to take a bit of chicken from between

her teeth.

People sit in small groups, eating dinner, catching up.

Latecomers, bunch around Joe.  Sam Feckman, an actor also in

Mac's film, holds forth.

Panes finds room next to Skye.

He sits on the floor along side her.  They eat in silence for

a moment.

Skye giggles appreciative response.

Other arrivals pick their way through bodies and plates.

Walk over to Sally and kiss her cheek.  Joe and Gina and

Jeffrey sit off to the side.

Joe pulls Sally to him and wraps his arms around her.

Sally held in Joe's arms, smiles.  The cat who ate the

canary.

Sophia watches from across the living room.

NEW ANGLE

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Astrid squeezes in next to Sally, on her second portion of

everything.  She allows Anouk to nibble from her plate.

INT. LIVING ROOM

The CAMERA stays close on the cake as America wheels the cart

into the living room.  The top of it sports Sally and Joe's

faces on either side of Otis, a detailed edible photograph.

There are three sixes across the top.

There's a freed up pathway.  Cal taps the side of his

champagne glass with a fork.

Clair picks up discarded dinner plates.  Otis takes care of

those behind couches, under tables.

The gifts are stacked high, near the fireplace.  Sally is on

the floor, nestled between Joe's knees, leaning back against

him.  His arms are wrapped around her, face pressed against

hers.

There's a SERIES OF CUTS through speeches, gifts,

entertainment.  Sophia and Cal do a well rehearsed, very

funny, impromptu something with their kids.

Panes and Mac do an interpretive dance symbolizing the

marriage.

Cal and Sophia carry sleeping children down the hall.

There are speeches about Sally and Joe, outrageously dirty,

funny, sometimes touching - that cover their recent

separation, the custody of Otis, their trying to have a

baby...

Panes plays a piece on the violin.  Someone else sings.  And

finally...

MEDIUM CLOSE - SKYE

She looks out at the guests...

NEW ANGLE

They look back at her.

The CAMERA barely catches the grimace on Mac's face; Clair

elbows him.

She pulls an envelope from behind her back, which she's

decorated in flower-child fashion; it harkens back to the

sixties, puts it into Sally's hand, kisses her cheek.

Skye's pleased she's made him happy.

A pall descends on the party.  There's a FULL SHOT of the

group.  Nobody quite knows what to do.  There's torn wrapping

paper all over the room.

There are awkward excuses.  Some of the guests leave.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The core group remains.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Cal carries the envelope into the room.

He dances her around the kitchen, he picks up the sterling

dish, arranges the pills, carries them back to the living

room.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Ecstasy is passed from guest to guest.  Ryan expects Monica

to abstain.

EXT. POOL - LATER

The drug has begun to take effect.  The party is now in full

swing.  Music is playing, and Sophia and Clair are dancing.

People are swimming, some naked, some in swimsuits.  Judy

floats around the pool on an inflatable dog.

Sally and Skye cuddle together on one of the benches round

the pool, chatting; a friendly, feely touchy conversation.

Joe passes around bottles of water and chewing gum to

everyone, emceeing the event.

Everyone is relaxed and open, except Ryan, who sits beside

Monica at the edge of the garden, separated from the others.

She puts arms around him, kisses his cheek.  He stiffens.

She gets up.

The CAMERA follows Monica along the side of the pool.  She

passes Sophia and a very exuberant Clair.

The CAMERA stays at the pool.  Clair tears off Sally's

Galiano, flings it to the ground and dives topless into the

pool.

MEDIUM CLOSE UP - JUDY

She stands at the side of the pool.

There is a melee of diving and screaming.

EXT. BACKYARD LANDING

It's at the end of a bridge, overlooking the pool.  Voices

drift up from below.  Mac and Joe walk in circles pacing

around one another.

INT. MUSIC LIBRARY

Sally's taken Gina's photograph of them from the mantelpiece

in the living room, and looks for a spot for it on the CD

shelves.  Sophia is studying the CDs very intently.  They are

both bopping to the music.

They both laugh, then...

They've started to walk through the house.

Sally drops out of frame.

Sally stares at her friend suddenly mute, eyes wide.

They hug a bit weepy.

EXT. POOL SIDE - CONTINUOUS

Joe and Cal sit by the edge of the pool watching Skye dance

by herself at the far end.  Joe has his hand on Cal's chest.

Cal is stroking Joe's hair.

He gets up to go towards Skye, is stopped by...

EXT. MEDIUM SHOT - CLAIR

Clair is climbing up the pool steps.

She kisses Joe and Cal, and goes off to find her husband.

Joe looks up and sees Sally standing in the sun room.  He

blows her a kiss.  She kisses her finger tips and puts her

hand flat against the window pane.

INT. BEDROOM CLOSET - TIGHT CLOSE - SALLY

She's in her wardrobe pacing back and forth a bit frantic.

Trying on clothing, tossing garments to the ground.  The

floor is a heap of discarded ideas.  She pulls on jeans and a

t-shirt.  Very similar to what Skye is wearing.  She sits a

moment on the floor.  The sounds of the party below are

muted.

The CAMERA stays with Sally as she gets to her feet, walks

along the corridor, toward the sound of her voice.

INT. DAILIES ROOM - NIGHT

Mac is on the edge of the couch, elbows on knees, staring at

the television screen - watching his dailies.  At some point

he drops his head.  Stops watching...

INT. MOVIE SET

Sally stands at the open door.  Stunned.  Watches Mac watch

her.  Watches herself, with a professional, acute eye.  More

critical than Mac's could ever be.

INT. CORRIDOR - CLOSE SHOT - SALLY

She backs up into the corridor mortified.  Leans against the

wall.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Clair's started down the hallway, reaches the landing.  Sally

rushes into the guest bedroom to avoid her.  Clair, just

missing Sally, wanders into the dailies room.

INT. DAILIES ROOM - CONTINUOUS

She walks in front of the television set, blocks it with her

body, switches it off.

INT. GUEST ROOM

MEDIUM CLOSE

Jack and Evie are asleep across the bed.

NEW ANGLE

Sally sits at the edge of the bed, regards the sleeping

children.  Reaches over and smoothens the tangled, tousled

hair.  Studies their faces.

EXT. POOLSIDE - JOE'S POV

Monica sits on the steps of the pool.  She looks frightened,

uncomfortable.

He puts his arm around her and leads her away from the pool.

EXT. BACKYARD LANDING - NIGHT

He pulls out another one.

The two suck on their lollipops for a moment.

Joe holds Monica.

Joe regards the open trusting face, is touched by it.  Leans

in, kisses her lips very lightly... and again.  Her arms

can't make up her mind, whether to come up around him or not.

Finally do.

She appears beside them.

Monica retreats, backs off a step or two.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

America and Rosa are cleaning up.  Ryan hangs around

chatting.

Her back is to him.  She exchanges a glance with Rosa, and

the Spanish equivalent of "who is this wanker?"

Monica bursts into the room.

EXT. CANYON - MOMENTS LATER

Panes and Skye search the canyon for Otis.  They both carry

lanterns.

EXT. CANYON - CONTINUOUS

Sally and Joe have lanterns.  Panes and Skye are up ahead.

We hear them calling for Otis.

Joe is silent.

Joe doesn't respond.

Joe slaps her hard across the face.

They stand their in silence.  Joe is devastated.  We hear

Skye and Panes up ahead calling for Otis.

INT. POOL - CONTINUOUS

SILENT UNDERWATER SHOTS

Of Mac, Judy and Clair.  Mac directs an underwater ballet, a

la Esther Williams.

There's a sequence of TIGHT OVERLAPPING SHOTS of Mac,

smiling, swimming underwater.  His image of himself... SLO-MO

compounded by water-weight.

The drug has clearly taken effect.  Mac opens his mouth to

direct his actors, forgets where he is, begins to choke, and

cough, is clearly in trouble.

Oblivious, Judy and Clair turn somersaults.

Mac begins to panic.  He is drowning.

He begins to sink.  Panic gives way to acceptance.

Jerry's body flies past FRAME, splashes hard into the pool.

The LENS is water-splattered.

MEDIUM-CLOSE SHOT UNDERWATER

Jerry's body sweeps past the lens, smooth and sleek as a

Dolphin.  He grabs Mac...

EXT. POOL - CONTINUOUS

Jerry pulls Mac to the surface.  Clair and Judy are out of

the pool.  Jerry drags the limp body from the pool, pumps

Mac's chest - it's clear he knows what he's doing.  Mac

coughs up a load of water.

There's a moment.  Mac begins to sob.

Mac raises his hand, arrests her from coming nearer.

They all stand around watching him.  Mac gets up.

The CAMERA stays on Mac as he walks around the side of the

house, down the steps through the basement.

INT. BASEMENT - MEDIUM FULL SHOT

Mac begins to tremble, sob convulsively.  He bites down on

his lip, clinches his first, tries to pull himself together.

He pulls a towel off a stack and they all fall on the floor.

INT. MUSIC LIBRARY - MEDIUM FULL SHOT

Gina regards the photographs she brought for Joe and Sally.

She lifts it from the shelf, the phone rings, the machine

picks up.

Gina sets the photo on the desk, leans it up against the

wall.  Joe and Sally's faces stare out of it.

She puts down the phone.  Stares into Joe's face, looks up at

a photo on the wall that she took of Joe and Lucy.

EXT. BACKYARD LANDING

Jerry and Judy are making out.

Grunts, groans, a scream, a peel of giggles.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Gina pulls Joe's clothes out of the closet, out of the

drawers.  There's an overnight bag on the bed.

EXT. POOL AREA

Cal and Sophia lie cuddled on a lounge chair, blissed out,

counting the windows of the house.

Clair wanders up.  She's changed into her own clothes.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Clair, Mac, Sophia, Cal and Gina are waiting.  The overnight

bag rests near the coffee table.  No one speaks.

There are sounds of the search party approaching.

NEW ANGLE

Panes, Skye, Sally and Joe come into the room dogless.

Joe looks from Gina to the others.

They move out of the room.

Skye and Panes look at the other guests.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

Gina closes the door.

Joe's legs give way.  He sort of sits on the floor.

Tears start down Sally's face.

Gina exits.

Joe starts to cry.  Sally holds him, kisses him, strokes him,

rocks him.

He wipes tears away that start afresh; his nose is running,

he wipes that too.

They sit on the floor.  Sally soothing, rocking Joe like a

baby.

INT. KITCHEN - LATER

Gina's put up some coffee.  Sophia, Cal, Mac and Clair stand

around awkwardly.  Sally comes into the room.

Al the guests are a little stunned.

They all laugh a little.

INT. MUSIC LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

Joe listens to the answering machine message Lucy left that

morning.  He plays it again and again.

HE fast forwards to his father's voice.  Presses the STOP

button.  Sits there, stunned.

INT. GUEST BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Cal and Sophia bundle up their sleeping kids.  The CAMERA

follows them to the landing as they head downstairs, pass

Sally who is coming up.

Sally kisses Cal's cheek.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Panes and Skye are fucking on Joe and Sally's bed.  Sally

walks in on them searching for Panes' ear, her best buddy.

EXT. BACKYARD LANDING - MEDIUM FULL SHOT

Jerry and Judy lie alongside each other, hands propping

heads.  They aren't privy to anything that's happened.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Sally stands at the threshold, watches Cal and Sophia load

their kids into the car.

INT. FOYER - CONTINUOUS

Clair and Mac and Gina hug and say their goodbyes to Sally.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Monica and Ryan return from their unsuccessful search.  They

come through the gate with it's sight: KEEP GATE CLOSED.

Monica and Ryan start for the kitchen entrance.

INT. KITCHEN - FROM MONICA AND RYAN'S POV

Sally and Joe are alone in the room.  They hold each other,

weep...

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

A much embarrassed Panes and Skye enter.

Panes starts to make some; Skye starts to clean up glasses

and ashtrays.

EXT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

We see Judy and Jerry bounding around the side of the house.

Jerry has his briefcase in his hand.  They are laughing.

They enter the kitchen.  The camera stays outside.  We see

them brought up short by the gloom, but hear nothing.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Sally and Joe are at the table, signing their tax returns.

Jerry supervising.  All is quiet.  Judy's sunk into a chair.

INT. FOYER - CONTINUOUS

Morning's finally come.  Light fills the room, empty except

for party debris.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

It's empty but for glasses, wrapping paper, abandoned dishes

of leftover cake.

INT. EMPTY KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

INT. GUEST BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The bed is rumpled and indented from the sleeping children.

Their drawings and paints strewn all over the floor...and

Walls.

INT. EMPTY DEN - CONTINUOUS

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The bed still shows the remains of Panes and Skye's love

making.

The CAMERA moves through the suite into the bathroom.

Sally's in the tub.  Joe comes into the room in the buff.

Sally looks up at the nakedness.

HE slips into the tub with her.  They lie there facing each

other.

Joe reaches out of the tub for gift-wrapped box.  He hands it

to sally.  It's their ritual gift-giving site.

Sally opens the gift.  Takes out a Calder mobile.

She hands him a small wooden box.  He opens it, takes out a

set of keys.

He can't say anymore.

She reaches out with both arms.

INT. BATHROOM - TIGHT CLOSE

Joe and Sally tenderly make love.  It's the dissolution of

their marriage.

INT. FOYER - NINE A.M.

America and Rosa begins to clean up the debris from the

party.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

A taxi pulls up.  Joe gets in with his bags.  The cab backs

out...

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - MEDIUM CLOSE

The two wedding rings rest on the nightstand, hers nestled in

his.  Sally's hand opens the drawer, sweeps the rings into

it.

EXT. HOUSE - LATE MORNING

The "FOR SALE" sign is hammered into the ground.

EXT. HIGH SHOT - CONTINUOUS

Otis wanders along the street, up the driveway and disappears

through the flap in the kitchen door.

