FADE IN:

Through the window of a moving vehicle, we see a series of

small, middle-class houses.  This could be any suburban street

in America.

INT. CITY BUS - DAY

A boy is seated near the back of a moving bus.  This is TODD

BOWDEN, 15, as All-American as they come.  He stares out at the

other passengers indifferently.  Then something catches his eye.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - SANTO DONATO - DAY

TITLE: SANTO DONATO, CA  FEBRUARY 1984

Todd pedals his bike down a quiet street and pulls up to an

unassuming bungalow set far back on its lot.  This is the kind

of house one would hardly notice driving through the peaceful

suburban community of Santo Donato.  Todd gets off his bike and

heads up the front steps.  On the way, he bends down to pick up

the L.A. Times.

Two signs, in laminated plastic, are secured neatly above the

door bell.  The first reads: "ARTHUR DENKER".  The second reads:

"NO SOLICITORS, NO PEDDLERS, NO SALESMEN".

Todd RINGS the bell.  Nothing.  He looks at his watch.  It is

twelve past ten.  He RINGS again, this time longer.  Still

nothing.  Finally, Todd leans on the tiny button, staring at his

watch as he does so.  After more than a minute of SOLID RINGING,

a voice is heard from within.

Todd lets go as a chain behind the heavy door starts to rattle.

Then it opens.  An old man stands behind the screen.  He is KURT

DUSSANDER, a.k.a. Arthur Denker.  Mid-seventies.  Standing there

in his bathrobe and slippers, a cigarette smashed in his mouth,

he looks like a cross between Boris Karloff and Albert Einstein.

Dussander stares at Todd, who tries to speak, but suddenly

cannot.

The door begins to close.  Todd waits till the last moment

before speaking.

The door stops.  Dussander opens it slowly.  He unlatches the

screen and slips his fingers around the paper.  Todd does not

let go.

Dussander snatches the paper away and closes the screen door.

Quickly, almost imperceptibly, the old man's eyes survey the

area: across the street, up and down the sidewalk, the boy's

bicycle.

As the front door closes, Todd speaks rapidly into the narrowing gap.

The door stops, still partly open.

The door opens wider.

The heavy door slams shut.

In a flash the front door is open, so is the screen.  Dussander

is through the doorway and descending upon Todd with the rolled

umbrella raised to strike him.  Todd stumbles back against the

porch rail.

But Todd regains his composure quickly.  He brushes himself off

and levels his eyes at the old man who now hardly seems the

threat he was a few seconds ago.

Pause.

Pause.

Dussander turns and steps back through the screen door.  He

stops at the threshold of the house and turns.  He is holding

the screen door open with one leg, the front door open with the

other.  He looks straight ahead.  A moment later, Todd steps

into the house.

INT. DUSSANDER'S HOUSE - DAY

Dussander's home is what you would expect of a single, poor, old

man.  Nothing fancy, nothing out of the ordinary.  Todd looks

around, perhaps half-expecting to find a Nazi flag or an oil

painting of Der Fuehrer hanging above the mantle.  But he

doesn't, and moves into the living room where an old picture of

a woman sits framed on an end table.

Todd's attention drifts away and his fingers slip over to a

lampshade next to the photograph.  He begins to feel it as

though he were inspecting it for something.

Todd jumps back a little but then recovers.

Pause.

Todd sits on the sofa.

INT. RONNY PEGLER'S GARAGE - DAY

Todd and RONNY, both 13, rummage through several large boxes in

the corner of the garage.  We see that the boxes are filled with

old war magazines.  Ronny tosses several of them to the ground

as he digs for his dad's old copies of Penthouse.  Ronny selects

one Penthouse and rifles through it.  He discards it a moment

later.

But the old war magazines catch Todd's attention.  He picks one

up curiously and carefully flips through the tattered pages.  We

see a few of the photographs:  Nazi storm troopers, prisoners

behind barbed wire, the ovens.

As young Todd stares into this secret world, his voice comes

in...

INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Todd speaks excitedly.  Dussander, very bored, clearly indulges

him.

Dussander sits.

INT. RONNY PEGLER'S GARAGE - DUSK

Todd sits on one of the boxes surrounded by dozens of the old

magazines.  The door to the house opens and Ronny, looking

cross, pokes his head out.

Todd, lost in the sea of old photographs, doesn't notice Ronny

at first.  Then he looks up at him.  In his eyes is a glint of a

darkness that we will come to know better.

ANGLE on Todd.

INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Todd hops up and begins to pace the floor. Dussander stares at

him blankly, unsure of where this is going.

Todd looks deep into Dussander's eyes.  Dussander is

uncomfortable.  Slowly, Todd reaches out and brushes his finger

against Dussander's hand.  Dussander gets up.

Pause.

Todd's voice narrates what we are seeing.  Todd, seated near the

back of the bus, watches Dussander climb aboard.  Todd thinks

nothing of it at first, but soon finds that he is unable to take

his eyes off him.  Todd is trying to place the old man's face in

his mind...

INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Dussander stares back at him flatly.

He storms toward the kitchen and stops.

Dussander disappears into the kitchen.  Todd stands alone in the

living room.

He lets out a long, nervous breath, showing for the first time

the presence of something other than the cold confidence he has

been putting up for Dussander.  He knows he has crossed into

dangerous territory from which there is no going back.  But

after a moment he composes himself; he has come this far.  The

sternness returns to his eyes.  Todd is all business.  He takes

a breath, and then speaks loudly enough for Dussander to hear

him in the kitchen.

Todd steps up onto the porch and looks around calmly.  He pulls

the powder and brush from his pocket and begins to examine the

mailbox for prints.

INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

The SOUNDS of a refrigerator opening and closing come from the

kitchen.  Drinks being poured.  Todd begins to move slowly

toward the kitchen.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DAY

He reaches the doorway just as Dussander turns around with the drinks.

Dussander approaches him carrying a tumbler of milk and a glass

of bourbon.  He hands the tumbler to Todd, who brings it up to

his lips and hesitates.

He snatches the cup and swallows twice.

Todd pauses and then begins to drink.

Pause.

Dussander turns toward the counter and pulls a kitchen match

from a cabinet.  He lights his cigarette with his back to Todd.

Dussander's eyes drift to the collection of kitchen knives

neatly stuffed in their block on the counter in front of him.

He lingers a moment, pulls deeply on the cigarette, then turns

and continues.

Bored, Todd sinks into a chair at the table.

Dussander points to the door, but Todd remains motionless in his

chair.

Dussander steps past Todd and picks up the receiver of the phone

hanging on the wall above the table.  The boy still sits

motionless behind him.  Dussander dials a "9", and then, with

more difficulty, a "1".  He stands with his finger poised over

the final "1".  Tiny beads of sweat roll over his forehead.  His

shoulders drop.  Todd stands up.  Their faces are close

together.

Slowly, Dussander brings the receiver down onto its hook.

Pause.

EXT. DUSSANDER'S HOUSE - DUSK

It is later the same day.  Todd emerges from the house.  The

setting sun tells us he has been inside for several hours.  He

picks up his bike and hops on.  He stops.  He turns to look up

the street in both directions.  No one.  A moment later he

pedals off down the street.

MAIN TITLES

INT. HIGH SCHOOL CLASSROOM - DAY

TITLE: SEPTEMBER 1984

A typical high school image.  Rows of students sit listening to

a lecture from MR. PROXMIRE, fifties, as he weaves his way

through the aisles.

As the teacher continues to lecture, the camera stops on JOEY,

17.  On his desk is a folded note. He hands it across the aisle

and motions for it to be sent to Todd a few rows over.  The note

moves across the room, avoiding the meandering teacher, on its

way to Todd.

The FEMALE STUDENT across the aisle from Todd now has the note.

She whispers to him but he doesn't hear.  Todd is trying to say

awake with great difficulty.

The girl extends the note just as Proxmire passes.  He stops,

turns around, plucks the note from the girl's hand and heads for

the front of the class.

Without glancing at it, Proxmire crumples the note and drops it

into the waste basket by his desk.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - LOCKER AREA - DAY

It is in between classes.  The denizens of STUDENTS crowd around

their lockers.  Among them is Todd.  He searches through his

locker and selects a book.  Suddenly the door SLAMS shut to

reveal the face of Joey standing against the lockers.  Todd,

startled, jumps back.

The two walk down the corridor.

Two CHEERLEADERS pass them.

They arrive at the door of Todd's classroom as the BELL SOUNDS.

Joey runs off, leaving Todd looking after him.

EXT. DUSSANDER'S BACK PORCH - DAY

TITLE: OCTOBER 1984

It is late afternoon.  Dussander sits in a rocking chair facing

out into the backyard.  Todd is in the lawn chair off to the

side.  He has just finished a McDonald's cheeseburger and is

about to start another one.  Dussander eats a Big Mac, washing

it down with bourbon.  A large cat keeps jumping onto

Dussander's lap while he is eating.  He brushes it away annoyed.

The cat jumps into Dussander's lap again.  He throws it down,

this time harder.

Todd sits up a little, leaning in.

The cat jumps up a third time.  This time Dussander picks it up

and tosses it a good six feet.  The animal hits the ground and runs away.

He finds the pack and fumbles a cigarette to his lips.  He

lights it.  Todd watches calmly, giving the old man a moment to

collect himself, and then...

But Dussander ignores him, staring out into the yard as he

begins to remember more easily.

Dussander looks down at the remains of the meal in his lap. As

if his own story has suddenly disgusted him, he balls the food

up in its wrapper and shoves it into the paper bag.

Dussander stares at Todd, wanting to say something.  Todd

shovels a few more fries into his mouth, then looks up and sees

Dussander eyeing him.

ANGLE on Dussander.

Dussander is asleep in his bed.  A low groaning sound comes in

very slowly.  Dussander's eyes open.  He sits up, looks around,

sees that his bed is in the middle of a large open field.  It is

grassy, but certainly not beautiful.  Something is wrong about

this place.

He stands out of the bed, wearing pajamas.  But it is cold.  He

takes the sheet and wraps himself in it.  The groaning is

getting louder, more human.  We have never seen him frightened,

until now.  He steps a few paces from the bed.  The groans have

becomes low screams.  There is no where to go.  Slowly, as if he

knows what he's going to see, he looks down at the ground.  It's

just grass.  But the human voices are now wailing desperately.

His knees buckle, but he tries to fight it.  He reaches his

knees and lowers his head toward the ground.  The white sheet

flows around him and blows off in a gust of wind.  The screams

are now at a feverish pitch.  His ear is inches from the grass

and his eyes, marked with unmistakable terror, are wide open

as...

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dussander bolts upright in his bed.

EXT. OUTDOOR SHOOTING RANGE - DAY

RICHARD (DICK) BOWDEN, 38, is a taller, grayer version of his

son.  He stands over Todd's shoulder watching him shoot at a

paper target.  He still has on a tie from work, but the knot has

been loosened and his shirt sleeves rolled up.  Both Dick and

Todd wear headphones and orange shooting glasses.  Dick chews

gum.  They are alone on the range.

Todd fires a few rounds from his father's .30-.30.  A strained

tension exists between the two Bowdens.

He pulls off his headphones in disgust and hands the rifle to

his father.  Dick takes it and begins to reload it for him.

Dick decides to take a shot himself.  He readies himself and

fires.

Dick is looking at his son, unsure if he has just seen a

contortion of rage on his son's face.  But Todd is cocking the

rifle and...

Todd turns to face his father, and speaks to him with a new

seriousness.

Pause.

Todd smiles.  Feeling his father caving in, he aims the rifle and

squeezes off a round.  Dick keeps his eyes on Todd as he shoots.

Todd aims the rifle down range and pulls the trigger.  The gun

jams.  Todd tries to move the lever but it gets stuck.

Dick begins to methodically unjam the gun.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DUSK

TITLE: NOVEMBER 1984

Dussander looks shabbier than in previous scenes.  His clothes

and hair reflect an increasing disregard for personal

appearance.  He goes to the basement door and, leaning carefully

over the steps, retrieves a fresh bottle from his stash, stored

precariously on some shelves leading down to the basement.  He

comes back to the counter and cracks the bottle open.  Todd's

irritated voice booms in from the living room.

Dussander mumbles contemptuously and then speaks so Todd can

hear him.

INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - DUSK

Todd has built a fire, probably the first fire Dussander's

fireplace has seen in twenty years.  The room is bathed in a

warm orange glow as the winter sun sets outside.  Todd uses the

poker to adjust one of the logs.

Dussander comes back in with his drink and settles into his easy

chair, which has been positioned in front of the hearth.

Todd finishes with the fire and sits on the floor a few feet

away.

Pause.  Todd is impressed.

Dussander does not respond.  He gazes deeply into the fire.

Dussander stares into the fire.  Todd, wide-eyed, is locked on

Dussander when...

The PHONE RINGS.

They look at each other, a bit puzzled.  Clearly, it does not

ring very often, and when it does, Dussander cannot help but be

apprehensive.

It rings again.  Dussander gets up and moves toward the kitchen,

Todd watches him go.

He hangs up and turns to Todd with a odd grin.

INT. OLD TOYOTA CAR - ROADSIDE - NIGHT

Todd and Becky are in the backseat of Becky's car.  They are on

a date and have parked on the side of a road overlooking the

lights of their town.  At 16, BECKY TRASK, is an attractive girl

who has recently discovered that boys like her and she likes

them.  They are kissing in the back seat.  MUSIC plays on the

stereo.  Becky's blouse is unbuttoned.  She stops kissing Todd.

Becky smiles to herself, unconvinced.

Todd just stares at her.  He doesn't know what he wants.  Becky

decides for him.  She slides down out of the frame.  Todd is

startled at first, but lets her.  After a moment, he closes his

eyes.

EXT. DUSSANDER'S BACK PORCH - NIGHT

Dussander sits in his rocking chair.  A small blanket drapes

across his lap.  He smokes a cigarette and holds a near-empty

glass.  On the ground beside him, there is a small bowl.

Out in the yard, the large cat emerges from the darkness and

moves across the grass.  It sees Dussander and, more

importantly, the bowl next to him.  We see that the bowl is

filled with milk.

Dussander sits perfectly still.  Cautiously, the cat moves

toward the porch.

The cat creeps to the edge of the steps.  It takes them one at a

time.

After a moment the cat edges up to the bowl.  Its tail twitches

nervously.  Finally, it begins to lick up the milk.  Dussander

crunches the cigarette out in his empty glass.  His movements

are slow and patient.  From under the blanket he pulls a pair of

yellow rubber gloves.  He begins to put them on.  The cat jumps

back for a moment.  Dussander freezes.  He waits the cat out.

Soon the animal is back at the bowl.  Dussander continues with

the gloves.  He watches the cat's tail.  As the animal gets

comfortable, its tail flips under the rail of the rocking chair.

Dussander slams the chair back.  The CAT SHRIEKS.  Dussander

flips the blanket on top of the cat and wraps it into a tight,

squirming, HISSING bundle.  He stands out of the chair.

INT. BECKY'S TOYOTA - ROADSIDE - NIGHT

It is later.  Becky sits behind the wheel.  Todd is next to her.

A different song is on the RADIO.  They sit for a moment in

silence, clearly uncomfortable.

Becky lights a joint.  She takes a puff and exhales toward Todd.

For a moment it is as though Todd's face were purple with rage.

But a moment later the expression is gone.  Todd turns away.

Becky sees that her comment has hurt him.

She kisses him on the cheek.  He nods reluctantly.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Dussander bursts through the door with the bundle.  A single paw

emerges from the corner of the blanket and flails at Dussander,

clawing him across the neck.

They move across the room to the stove.  With difficulty,

Dussander pulls open the oven door, revealing the glowing red

interior.  The animal SCREAMS and claws at Dussander's neck and

arms, escaping more and more from the blanket with every

gyration of its body.  With a mighty shove Dussander plunges the

cat toward the opening, but the animal braces its paws on the

edge of the stove.  The two are deadlocked.  But Dussander's

hands are too close to the heat.  He screams.  His grip loosens

just enough.  With a desperate cry, the animal charges up

Dussander's body, over his head, and leaps to the floor.

Dussander dives after it.

But the animal is too swift.  In a second, it is atop the

counter and out the open window above the sink.  Although

defeated and exhausted, Dussander cannot contain his excitement.

His panting gives way to a twisted, hearty laugh.

This is a 1940's laboratory.  Todd is in his boxer shorts.

Dussander is next to him, wearing a lab coat and his S.S.

officers hat.  Todd looks down on the examination table.  A

YOUNG GIRL, about 16, is held to the table with clamps.  She is

naked, staring at Todd.  Behind the table is a glass window and

behind that is another room where OTHER SCIENTISTS are

monitoring equipment.

Over Dussander's methodical voice, Todd's dream shows flashes of

what is being done: some sort of sexual experiment on the girl.

Dreamlike SOUNDS and images pass before us: Todd's breathing,

the girl's cry, electrical equipment, naked flesh, maybe

Todd's, maybe the girl's.

Inside the control room, a SCIENTIST monitors a volt meter,

calling out the readings as Dussander yells for the voltage to

be increased.  As the meter rises, the girl SCREAMS more

violently.  Perhaps her eyes roll back, her tongue flutters in

her mouth.  Through all of this, the scientists call out and the

record heart rate, blood pressure, brain activity, voltage, etc.

Todd's eyes close.  His breathing accelerates as does the motion

of his hips until...

INT. HIGH SCHOOL CLASSROOM - DAY

Todd snaps out of his daydream.  His trigonometry class is

having an examination.  He sits at his desk, staring blankly at

the paper before him.  Most of the answer spaces are empty.  He

knows he is going to fail another test.

EXT. OUTOOOR SHOOTING RANGE - DAY

Todd is blasting away, rapid-firing the rifle down range at an

unfortunate paper target.  The protective headphones lay on the

counter beside him, as does his backpack.  He stops shooting

when a voice snaps over the P.A. speaker next to him.

Todd looks over at the man frowning at him from inside a small

booth.  Todd puts on the headgear, and after a moment, the man

goes back to reading a newspaper.  Todd looks up and down the

range.  One or two other shooters are concentrating on their

targets.  Todd quickly hoists his rifle up and aims it at the

man in the booth.  He snaps off a single dry round.  Todd smiles

weakly at the sound of the click.  Unnoticed by anyone, he turns

back toward the target, strangely comforted.

INT. DINING ROOM - BOWDEN HOUSE - DAY

Thanksgiving dinner.  All the Bowden's are there, including

Dick's parents, VICTOR and AGNES. Dussander sits at the head of

the table, Todd next to him.  The family has finished dinner and

is having coffee.  Dick and his father smoke cigars.  Todd's

mother, MONICA BOWDEN, still pretty at 36, pours Dussander some

more coffee.

Dussander still looks puzzled.  He looks to Todd, but Victor

jumps in.

Todd shoots him a fiery glare that the others don't notice.

A quick moment between Todd and Dussander.

Dussander's cigarettes are right in front of him.  Todd fetches

one and, bringing it to his own lips, lights it for him.

Everyone laughs, except Todd.

Todd doesn't answer.  His eyes are still on Dick.  Dick notices

him.

A long pause.  Dick is embarrassed and offended by Todd's stab.

He puffs on his cigar.  Agnes comes in from the kitchen and picks

up some more dishes.  Dick stands suddenly to help her.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - SIDEWALK - NIGHT

Todd and Dussander walk together in silence.  Todd is clearly in

a bad mood.  Dussander prods him.

Dussander stops.

They start walking again.  Dussander turns up his driveway.

Todd follows.

Dussander unlocks his door and steps in.

He closes the door.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DAY

TITLE: DECEMBER 1984

Todd places a brightly wrapped Christmas present on the table in

front of Dussander, who looks at it skeptically.

Todd opens the refrigerator and pulls out a can of Coke.

Dussander slowly sits back down.

He begins to remove the bow, and then the paper.  He moves very

cautiously, as if the package might explode at any moment.

Finally, he removes the lid and his expression shifts from one

of fear to one of exasperation.

We see that the box contains a replica of an officer's S.S.

uniform, complete with hat and jackboots.  Dussander reads the

label.

Dussander bangs the table.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DAY

It is five minutes later.  Dussander stands in the uniform.  He

looks at it indignantly.

Dussander ignores him.

Dussander does what he is told.

Slowly Dussander straightens up.

Dussander begins to move his feet in place.

Dussander has gotten into a rhythm, marching faster in place.

Dussander spins sharply on his heels.  He continues to march.

Dussander is stomping in place vigorously.  He spins on command,

facing Todd.  He gives a Nazi salute.  Todd watches him march

for a moment.  At first he enjoys the domination, but as

Dussander gets caught up in the marching, Todd's expression changes.

Dussander is still marching furiously.

Suddenly Dussander stops.  He collapses into a chair, exhausted.

He sits there panting for a moment.

Dussander wakes to a strange, faint rumble.  He climbs out of

bed and walks across his bedroom toward the source of the sound.

We follow him as he moves farther and farther away from his bed.

Soon it is apparent that he is in a space much larger than his

room.  Yet he is still in darkness, as if his room has suddenly

ended and continues into a black void.

But the rumble gets louder, more mechanical sounding.  As the

sound crescendoes we see what Dussander sees.  A train car.

Steam rises in the air as if the train has just come to a

complete stop in the night.

Dussander stares at the boxcar coldly, and we realize that

something is staring back at him.  Eyes, dozens of them, glare

back at him from between the slatted boards of the train.  Some

are low to the flooe, like those of children.  Others are

higher.  Dussander snaps at them in German.

cautiously within the boxcar.  Dussander is getting angry.  His

orders aren't being carried out.  Suddenly the door of the train

slides open.  But still only the eyes are visible.

Again, no one gets off.  Enraged, Dussander takes a few steps

toward the train.  In a flash the eyes charge at him.  But these

are not the eyes of prisoners.  These are wolves.  Dussander can

only cover his face with his arms as the snarling teeth descend

upon him.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dussander wakes from his nightmare in a cold sweat. His pajamas

are soaked. Disoriented and out of breath, he climbs out of bed

and clicks on the light.

The closet. He stares at the closed closet door for a moment and

then moves toward it slowly. He opens the door and runs his

fingers across the assortment of shirts and jackets. His hand

stops near the back.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - FIVE MINUTES LATER

Dussander is seated on the side of the bed smoking a cigarette.

He is dressed, with the exception of the boots and hat, in the

SS uniform.  He appears calmer, less agitated.  He crunches out

the cigarette and slips under the covers.  He turns off the

light.  He closes his eyes.  For the moment, he is at peace.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - LOCKER AREA - DAY

Todd stands facing his open locker.  He is staring at his report

card.  Sweat collects on his forehead.  He looks like he is

about to explode.  He wipes his brow with his sleeve and turns

around to see if anyone notices him.  TWO STUDENTS catch his

eye.  They are both Asian.  They are smiling and pouring over

each other's report cards.  Todd zips open his backpack, giving

us a quick glimpse of the disassembled rifle pieces inside.  He

throws the report card in and zips up the bag.  Slinging the bag

over his shoulder, he slams the locker shut and heads off down

the hall.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASIUM - DAY

Todd is shooting baskets with Joey.  It is after school.  Todd

wears a white T-shirt.  Off to the side, we see the dress shirt

he was wearing earlier and his school bag.

Todd throws up a clumsy shot.  It misses.

Todd adjusts his grip on the ball anyway.  He shoots again.  No

good.

Todd does not respond to his friend's attempt at humor.   He is

slamming the ball around with great force.  He bounces it hard

off the back wall to give himself a rebound.  He is mumbling to

himself.

No response from Todd.

Joey walks off.  Todd continues shooting the ball.

He throws up a shot.  It is good.

A strange SQUAWKING sound is heard.  Todd doesn't hear it at

first, but as the sound grows louder Todd stops the ball and

looks around.  His eyes focus on the area near an open doorway.

Sunlight streams into the empty gym.  Todd walks closer, seeing

that the sound is coming from an injured bird that has crawled

in from outside.  He goes up to it.  The bird is black.  Its

wing is damaged.  It SQUAWKS loudly, looking up at Todd.  Todd

begins mumbling again.  He starts to dribble the ball

thoughtlessly.  As his words become clearer, the bouncing gets

harder.

Todd is bouncing the ball very hard next to him.  The bird

continues to SCREAM.  Slowly the ball drifts from beside Todd to

in front of him, gaining force with every bounce.  He brings it

up to his face and with both hands throws it down with all his

might.  When it comes back up, it is smeared with blood.  He

throws it down again, this time it comes up with feathers

smeared in the blood.  The squawking has stopped.  Blood

splatters on Todd's shirt.  His eyes close.

He stops the ball, looks around.  No one has seen him.  He

notices his shirt.  Calmly, he tears it off, wraps the ball in

it, and tosses it in a nearby trash can.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

Todd pedals his bike through town, carrying a brown paper bag

under one arm.  He turns down Dussander's street.  He stops in

front of the house and heads for the front door.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DAY

Dussander emerges from the basement just as Todd comes into the

kitchen.  Todd sniffs the air, frowns.

Dussander's studies Todd for a moment.  Although Todd appears

calm, his tone reflects a somber, business-like attitude.

Todd sets his grade card and the envelope on the table.

Dussander picks up the grade card and examines it.

Dussander throws Todd a dismissive wave.  He gets up to get a drink

Pause.  Dussander looks at him oddly, a bit surprised.  But then

opens the cabinet and pulls out a glass, allowing Todd to continue.

Dussander goes back to the table and picks up the envelope.  He

opens it.

Todd sets the small paper bag on the table.  Dussander opens it

and removes a small bottle.  The label reads: "ink eradicator."

He also removes an x-acto knife and a few sheets of rub-off

letters.

Todd sits down at the table.  He takes the bottle from Dussander

and examines the report card.

Dussander pauses.  He knows Todd is right.  Slowly, he goes to

the counter and opens a drawer.  He rummages through it as Todd

sits with his back to him.  Dussander picks out a pencil with an

extremely sharp point.  He holds it point out and approaches

Todd.  He gets closer, the point moves in toward the back of

Todd's head.  He holds the point inches from the boy's neck.  He

deliberates.

Todd grabs the pencil.  Dussander turns toward the window.  He

thinks for a moment.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - OFFICE WAITING AREA - DAY

Kurt Dussander, a.k.a. Arthur Denker, a.k.a. Victor Bowden,

Todd's grandfather, sits outside an office marked, "Edward

French - Guidance."  Dussander looks the best he has ever

looked.  His hair is clean and combed.  His face is shaved.  And

he is smartly dressed in his best blue suit.  As he waits, he

glances down at a piece of paper.  We see that it is a "crib-

sheet" of Todd's family tree.  Several names appear on the

sheet, connected to other names by lines and arrows.  By each

name is one or two word description, such as "dead: cancer,

1981" or "divorced, Dallas, Tex."  The door opens up.  Dussander

pockets the note.  EDWARD FRENCH, 40's, stands in the doorway.

He wears a turtle neck under his sportcoat.

There is a bit of hesitation on French's part, but they shake

hands.  Dussander notices the shoes on French's feet, bright red

converse high-tops.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - FRENCH'S OFFICE - DAY

French makes his way around his desk.  Dussander stands by the

door.

They both sit.

Dussander pulls out his cigarettes and then, thinking twice,

puts them back.

A hint of skepticism crosses French's eyes.

EXT. DUSSANDER'S BACK PORCH - DAY

Dussander still wears the blue suit.  The tie has been loosened

and top button undone.  Todd still wears his backpack.

Todd is stunned.  He turns away, then back again, struggling for

the right words.

Todd is furious.  He sees there is no other way, but continues

fighting.

EXT. BIKE PATH - DAY

Todd is standing with his bike on a dirt path.  He is looking

out at something.  The wind blows throw his hair.  A distant

glimpse of some buildings off to the side tell us he is on a

hill.

EXT. BIKE PATH - TUNNEL - DAY

Todd pedals his bike furiously toward the camera.  He approaches

a tunnel lined with corrugated metal below an overpass.

Todd emerges from the tunnel.

Spotlights, like those from a guard tower, criss cross over a

small compound surrounded by an electrified fence.  Inside the

pen, wolf-like dogs snarl and gnash their teeth.  The spotlight

catches the source of their aggravation...

Dussander, caught ghoulishly in the roving light, stands in

uniform outside the pen.  He is laughing.  In his hand is his

Luger.  He fires through the fence, killing one of the dogs.

They go wild.  He laughs harder.  He shoots again, and then

again.  It is like shooting fish in a barrel.

The light beam passes the pen to reveal that the dogs have

transformed into human prisoners.  They maneuver helplessly to

avoid Dussander's bullets.  But he fires faster, his laugh

growing more extreme.  His movements in between shots becomes a

sort of dance.  One prisoner flies against the fence in a pools

of sparks.  As Dussander's waltz reaches it's climax, one

prisoner remains in the pen.  He looks up.  It is Todd.  Angle

on Dussander's toothy grin.  The gun comes up...

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT - IMMEDIATELY AFTER

Dussander wakes up.  A CLANKING SOUND echoes from the street.

Dussander looks like he could have been having a wonderful sex

dream, but he turns his head toward the direction of the street.

He clicks on the light.  Dressed in the SS uniform, he gets up

and moves toward the window.

Through the window, bathed in the glow of a street lamp, a

derelict, who we will come to know as ARCHIE, rummages through

Dussander's trashcans.  Under his arm are a few of the empty

bourbon bottles.

INT. BECKY'S TOYOTA - NIGHT

The car pulls into the driveway of Todd's house.  Becky is

smoking a joint and blowing the smoke out the window.  They both

look a little tipsy, as if they have been to a party.  She holds

the joint up to Todd.  He contemplates, then takes it.  Todd's

first toke of marijuana isn't very small.  Becky looks on,

surprised.  She reaches out for the joint and Todd waves her

off.  He pulls again, this time ingesting a huge hit.  He holds

it, then exhales.  He gives the roach back to Becky.

Becky gets out.  Todd slides over and does the same.  She

crushes the joint out on the pavement and puts the rest in her

purse.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dussander watches Archie collect the cans and bottles.  There is

something about Archie that makes Dussander wonder if he has

seen him before.  Archie looks up, right into Dussander's

window, as if he were expecting him to be there.  The two stare

at one another for a long moment.  Suddenly Dussander is aware

that he is dressed in the SS uniform.

He quickly steps back from the window.  His breathing is short

and erratic as he waits in the shadows for Archie to finish.

After a long moment, the noise from the street stops.  We hear

only the faint steps of Archie walking away.

INT. TODD'S BEDROOM - BOWDEN HOUSE - NIGHT

Todd and Becky's lips are locked in a passionate kiss. In their

exuberance they fall onto the bed.  As they try to undress and

kiss at the same time, Becky begins to moan.  Todd brings his

fingers to his lips.

Their clothes tumble off around them.

He slides off her and opens the drawer by his bed.  He pulls out

a condom.  By now she is naked.  Todd slips out of his underwear

and falls on top of her.  The RADIO plays in the b.g. as Todd

begins to grind away with his hips.  She moans softly with

delight.

The CAMERA MOVES off of them to reveal a man in a lab coat

setting up a volt meter.  This is one of the scientists from

Todd's laboratory nightmare.  The CAMERA continues TO PAN across

the bedroom, showing the other scientists preparing for the

electricity experiment.  The CAMERA STOPS on Dussander,

clipboard in hand, observing everything carefully.

Todd releases with a final thrust.  Becky is MOANING in a series

of high, fast yelps.  Todd lies still on her body.  Becky is

speechless, still quivering from the unusually intense love

making.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The bedroom is dark except for the glowing tip of a cigarette.

Dussander is in bed, wide awake...

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DAY

TITLE: JANUARY 1985

Todd sits alone at the table, eating while he studies.

Dussander crosses the frame behind him, drink in hand.  Todd is

noticeably annoyed by Dussander's presence.

EXT. BIKE PATH - TUNNEL - DUSK

It is raining.  Todd is riding fast.  He wears a raincoat with

the hood up.  He talks to himself loudly, but we can't make out

what he is saying.  He enters the tunnel.

The muddy run-off inside the tunnel catches Todd by surprise.

He loses control of the bike and falls into the mud.

Todd gets up and tries to free his bike, but the mud and water

do not make the job easy.  He is almost finished when a gruff

voice catches his attention.

Todd looks up and sees a figure moving toward him in the shadows

of the tunnel. Todd quickly pulls out a pocket knife.  He flicks

open the blade and hides it behind his leg.

The figure steps closer.  The light catches his face to reveal

Archie.  He is an unshaven, filthy mess, and when he speaks his

words are slurred from years of steady drinking.

Todd eyes the man cautiously.  He looks around.  No one is

nearby.  The constant din of the rain echoes within the confines

of the tunnel.

Todd palms the knife out of sight and slowly approaches the bum.

Todd's hands go into his pockets.  He stops a few feet from the

bum.

Todd moves closer.  Close enough to touch the bum.

The bum looks at him hopefully. Todd looks back at him, sizing

him up, really noticing him for the first time.

Todd freezes for a moment.  The bum is right in his face.

Suddenly Todd throws a handful of change at the bum and sprints

back to his bike.  He hops on and is gone in a flash, leaving

the bum there to pick up the scattered coins.

As Todd zips away, the hood is off his head.  The rain begins to

beat away the splattered mud from his face.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - HISTORY CLASS - DAY

Mr. Proxmire makes his way through the rows of desks.  He is

passing out papers.

Moans erupt from the class.  Todd sits motionless at his desk.

The moment of truth.  Proxmire passes him and places the exam

face down on Todd's desk.  Todd hesitates before turning it

over.  He is sweating.

He flips the paper over and glares at the small card clipped to

the top of the paper.  He picks up the card and reads it: "I'm

sure glad I didn't have to give you one of these for real!

Great improvement, Todd. -- Anne Leland."  Todd cannot contain

his delight.  Nearby students stare curiously at the strange boy

beaming over his flunk card.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DAY

Dussander sits at the table.  He holds the IOP card out at arm's

length to read it.  The bourbon bottle next to him is empty.

Todd sits across from him.

Dussander gets up and goes to the refrigerator.

Dussander goes about his task, taking items from the cabinets,

etc.  Todd watches all of this intently, but without expression.

Todd does not respond.

Todd is wringing his hand together nervously under the table.

Dussander places a box of crackers on the table and goes back to

the counter.

Dussander slices open a pack of Velveeta and puts it on a plate.

He puts a glass of Coke in front of Todd and goes back to the

counter.  He opens a drawer, takes something out, closes it.

Dussander goes to the cellar door.  His back is to Todd.  He

opens the door and clicks on the light.  Todd stands up

silently.

Todd has moved across the floor, careful not to let the floor

creak under his steps.  He is right upon Dussander.  Dussander

reaches out with one arm for a fresh bottle, grasping onto the

railing with the other.  His body hangs over the steep

staircase.

He gets his balance again and turns to face Todd.  Dussander

holds the kitchen knife he was using earlier down at his side

where Todd can see it.  A tense silence passes between them.

Todd is frozen.  Dussander steps past him and back into the

kitchen.  He closes the cellar door behind him.

Dussander sits back in his chair, cutting the seal on the fresh

bottle.

Todd sinks into a chair across from Dussander and takes a sip of

Coke.

Todd understands what the old man has told him.  He slams his

glass down on the table and jumps out of his chair.

Todd stares at Dussander in disbelief.  After a moment he storms

out the back door to the porch.

EXT. DUSSANDER'S BACK PORCH - DAY

Todd is leaning over the rail looking out at the yard when

Dussander steps onto the porch.  He carries with him the bottle

of bourbon and a glass.

Dussander shrugs and lights another cigarette.  He begins to

sing softly, then gets caught up in the song...  Todd turns away, angry.

Pause.  Dussander sees he has pressed Todd's button.  He moves

closer.

Dussander speaks with a near whisper in Todd's ear.

There is a long pregnant pause.  Then Todd lets out a sigh, as if

to dismiss what he has just heard.  He turns to face Dussander.

Dussander pours a splash of bourbon into the boy's glass.

Todd picks up his glass.

He CLICKS his glass against Dussander's.

He drinks.  Todd, reluctantly, does the same.

EXT. MAIN STREET - SANTO DONATO - DAY

TITLE:  APRIL 1985

Dussander, dressed smartly for a day out of the house, emerges

from a matinee at the movie theater and strolls down the

sidewalk, the umbrella under his arm.  He stops at an empty bench

and sits to wait for the bus.

Archie sits down next to him.  At first Dussander doesn't pay

attention to him, but Archie's behavior tells us that he is

keenly aware of Dussander's presence.  Dussander stares out into

the street, but Archie fidgets about, his eyes roaming, and

finally slides a little closer to Dussander.  Dussander looks at

him flatly.  Archie grins.  Dussander turns away, prepared to

dismiss this odd behavior as that of a crazed derelict.  Then

Archie speaks...

Dussander doesn't respond.  He catches Archie in a glance and

sees that he is staring at him.

Dussander is like stone, flashing the eyes of a man who is not

to be harassed.  Finally...

Dussander stands, slightly rattled only to those who know him

well.  He looks down the street for the bus.  Archie doesn't

move.  Rather, he inspects Dussander from head to toe, stopping

on the shoes.

The SQUEAL of brakes grows louder as the bus comes to rest in

front of Dussander.  He has become perceptibly more nervous as

he waits for the passengers to exit.  He climbs up the first

step.

The door closes behind Dussander. The bus pulls away. Through

the window of the bus Dussander watches Archie as he continues

his speech to no one.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL OFFICE - DAY

TITLE: MAY 1985

Todd sits nervously in a chair next to a tough, leather-clad

trouble maker.  A SECRETARY sits behind a long desk.  Her phone

beeps and she picks it up.

Todd approaches a door marked: "Dr. Carl N. Morgan - Principal."

He goes in.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - DAY

Todd opens the office door.  As his eyes scan the floor he

notices a familiar pair of yellow high-tops.  He looks up to see

Ed French leaning against the wall.  Seated at the desk is

MORGAN, a thin, stern man, around 50.  Todd's face shows a

moment of trepidation, but he regains his composure almost

instantly.

Todd does as Morgan pours over Todd's files.

French shakes Todd's hand, an uneasy moment passes between the

two of them.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL OFFICE - DAY

Todd comes out of Morgan's office.  French follows him.

He starts to walk away.

He turns to go, but French stops him again.

He steps up to Todd and lowers his voice, as if he were hedging

a touchy subject.

French's looks says, "No, you're not."

Todd realizes he is not going to get out of this easily.

He is pulling away from French as he speaks.

Todd walks away.

But Todd does not turn around.  French stares after him.  The

BELL RINGS, and Todd is swallowed by the stream of students

emerging from the class rooms.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Todd is kneeling down at the bike rack.  His backpack is on the

ground next to him.  He unlocks his bike and begins to coil the

chain around his wrist when Joey walks by.  He sees Todd and

considers going by, but stops.  We can tell they haven't spoken

in a while.

Todd looks up.  He seems pleasant, but there is little warmth in

his voice.

Pause.  They look at each other.  Joey wants to talk.  Todd

slips the chain lock into a pocket on his backpack.  Joey

jingles his car keys anxiously.

Joey shrugs.  It's an awkward moment.  He walks closer.

Joey reaches for Todd's backpack.  He lifts it.  The heaviness

puzzles him.  Todd takes it from him.

Todd stares at him stone-faced.  Joey doesn't like Todd's

expression.  Todd takes the bag from him and puts it on.

EXT. DIRT PATH - DAY

Joey sits on the handle bars as Todd pedals over the rugged

terrain.  Joy looks scared, but appears to be enjoying the ride

and the chance to be with his old friend.

The next shot shows Todd's bike laying on the ground.  The

wheels still turn slowly.  The camera moves to reveal Todd and

Joey standing on a rocky ledge.  Orange Country sprawls out

before them.

Under the cross-hairs of a telescopic sight, a truck, from the

freeway below, zooms out of frame.  The image vanishes.  We see

Joey looking through the scope which he holds in one hand.

The hunting rifle, disassembled, sticks out of Todd's backpack

on the ground.

He is trying to joke, but the seriousness is clearly in his

voice.

Joey isn't looking through the scope anymore.  He holds it out

to Todd, watching him.

Todd grabs the scope.  But Joey doesn't let go.  He finally

locks Todd in a stare that he has been avoiding for months.  He

wants to say something.  Todd takes the scope.  He sees that

Joey is serious.  He takes a few steps toward the edge, toward

the gun.  He looks out.

He looks through the scope at the freeway.  He picks out passing

cars.

Joey takes a few steps backward.  Todd doesn't notice.

Todd turns his head toward Joey, but it is as though no one is

there.  He looks away again.

Pause.  Todd looks again.  But this time Joey is really gone.  A

slight chuckle escapes Todd's mouth.

EXT. DUSSANDER'S STREET - EVENING

TITLE: JUNE 1985

Dussander plods down the sidewalk with his sacks of groceries.

He is a little more winded, moves a little slower than

previously.

Suddenly Archie emerges from behind a group of trees.  He moves

quickly up to Dussander, catching him off guard.

Dussander jumps back.  Archie stops.

Dussander does not move.  But slowly his face changes and we

realize that he remembers Archie from the bus stop.

He starts off again.  Archie follows.

Archie is taken aback by the sudden viciousness.

They are nearing Dussander's yard.

Fed up with his belligerence, Archie strips the bags from

Dussander's hands with ease.  Dussander knows he is outmatched.

Dussander looks up and down the street.  No one is around.

Long pause.

INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Dussander and Archie come through the front door.  Archie scans

the room.

Dussander moves toward the kitchen.  Archie watches him walk

away.  A smile crosses his face as he follows him to the kitchen.

INT. LIVING ROOM - BOWDEN HOUSE - EVENING

Todd and his parents are together in the living room.  Todd is

studying for his trigonometry final.  Monica sits at the couch

addressing graduation announcements.  Dick is at his desk,

pouring over a pile of receipts.

Todd thinks for a moment, realizes something.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN & BASEMENT - EVENING

Archie, seated at the table with his back to Dussander, is in

the middle of a sprawling monologue about his life to which

Dussander half-listens.  Dussander goes to the cabinets and

takes out two glasses.  He pours the drinks and sets the glasses

on the table.  Archie picks his up and is about to drink.

Dussander picks up his glass to toast Archie.  Archie CLINKS his

glass to Dussander's and downs the shot.

Dussander goes to the cellar door to retrieve another bottle.

Dussander pulls something out of a drawer.  He goes to the table

and stands right behind Archie.

Archie picks up the glass and begins to drink, slower this time.

Dussander pulls Archie's tattered hat off his head and sets it

on the table.  He then begins to stroke the matted knots of

Archie's hair.

Pause.

Dussander raises a meat fork up to the back of Archie's neck.

He starts to plunge it in just as Archie turns back to look at

him.  The fork goes in crooked.  Archie explodes from the chair,

HOWLING, his arms flailing like those of a grizzly bear.  With

the fork protruding from his back, Archie tosses the table to

the side.  The empty bottle tumbles to the middle of the floor

and shatters.  Archie spins and slams a fist into Dussander's

temple.  Dussander collapses against the counter.  Archie moves

about wildly, trying to grab the fork and pummel Dussander at

the same time.  Blood is streaming freely from his wound.

Dussander grabs a frying pan from a rack of drying dishes on the

counter.  As Archie approaches, Dussander swings the pan into

Archie's descending fist.  Archie winces and staggers backward.

He stomps down on the broken bottle and screams.  His guard

falls briefly.  Dussander is upon him.  He swings the pan,

catching Archie squarely in the face.

Archie brings his hands up to his face, which now oozes with

blood.  Blinded by the blow, Archie charges Dussander, who

crouches to the side, and as Archie passes, hurls himself into

the man's back, sending him through the open door of the cellar.

Archie flies down the stairs face-first, tumbling into the

packed dirt floor like a derailed train.  Dussander, exhausted

and bloodied, exhales deeply.  Looking down at the crumpled body

below, he straightens his tie, brushes the hair from his face,

and then surveys the kitchen.

He rises slowly and brushes himself off before heading down the

steps to finish the bum for good.  After about three steps he

stops abruptly.  He appears puzzled, but after a moment the

expression changes.  A look of searing pain rushes across his

face.  Dussander brings his hand to his chest.  He collapses on

the stairs.  He is having a heart attack and knows it.

He looks down at Archie, up to the kitchen, then back down to

the cellar.  A moment of decision.

The stairs appear ten times longer in each direction than they

did a minute ago.  Getting to his feet, he turns slowly toward

the kitchen.  He starts up the steps at a painfully slow pace,

counting with each step.

INT. LIVING ROOM - BOWDEN HOUSE - NIGHT - LATER

The same scene as before.

Todd doesn't look up from his textbook.

The PHONE RINGS.  Monica gets up to get it.

Pause.  Dick looks at the bill.

Monica comes back into the room.

Todd rises from the couch.  His mood shifts instantly.

INTERCUT: between Todd in his living room and...

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Dussander leaning against a wall in his blood-stained kitchen.

The wall above Dussander read 6:50.

Dussander hangs up the phone and falls into a chair.

INT. LIVING ROOM - BOWDEN HOUSE - NIGHT

Todd zips up his jacket.

He kisses Monica on the cheek.  He is out the front door.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD VARIOUS STREETS - NIGHT

Todd's driving reflects his state of mind: erratic and out of

control.  He meets a police car at an intersection and almost

runs a red light.  The police car doesn't bother him, however,

and a moment later he pulls the Honda up to Dussander's house.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Todd appears in the door of the kitchen.  His face tells us that

what he sees is ten times worse than whatever he expected.  The

room is a gruesome sight.  Blood and broken glass are

everywhere.  The table has been knocked to the side.  Dussander,

barely conscious, slumps in a chair.

Todd moves to the center of the room, careful not to step in any

blood.  He doesn't know what to do.  His attention falls on

Dussander.  Suddenly he rushes to him and begins to inspect his

body carefully.

Dussander does not respond.  Todd shakes him harder.

Dussander stirs a little, aggravated.

Pause.

Dussander points to the open cellar door.

Dussander only stares back at him, then looks away, almost

smiling through his incredible pain, as if to challenge Todd.

Dussander does not respond.  Todd stares at him for a moment,

then moves toward the cellar.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

Todd is half-way down the stairs when he freezes.  Sprawled out

on the ground below him is Archie, motionless.  The meat fork

still protrudes from his neck like an antenna.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Suddenly Dussander is more awake than we realize.  When he hears

Todd discover the body, he slides his chair over to the cellar

door and slams it shut.  His face is red with pain as he pushes

the dead bolt into place, locking Todd in the cellar.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT & KITCHEN - NIGHT

Todd races up to the door.  He tries the handle and then pounds

on the door with his fist.  The following conversation cuts back

between Todd and Dussander on opposite sides of the door.

Dussander shoves his chair under the doorknob.  He drags the

table against the door as he speaks.  Todd is screaming on the

other side and begins to kick at the door violently.

Todd pounds awayat the door.  Tears now stream down his cheeks.

His relentless pounding has Dussander enraged.  Dussander pounds

back at the door to shut Todd up.  It works.

A surge of pain from his chest silences him.  He recovers,

speaking slowly and deliberately.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

Todd runs down the stairs and leaps over Archie's body.  Under

the dim glow of a single naked bulb hanging from the ceiling, he

searches for a way out.  He crosses the dirt floor toward a tiny

window high on the opposite wall.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

Todd realizes he can't get through the bars.  He turns around to

find another option.  In the obscured background, Archie begins

to stir.  Silent and bewildered, he feels the area around him

and rises slowly to his knees.  Todd doesn't see him and moves

into a dark corner of the cellar, rummaging through the piles of

cluttered junk for something to help him escape.  He disappears

for a moment into complete darkness and then emerges holding a

shovel, a fresh confidence on his face.  He holds it like a

sledge hammer.

Todd runs toward the staircase and is only a few feet from

Archie when he sees him.  Todd, mortified, lets out a scream.

This startles Archie, who cannot speak.  He only gurgles a

SICKENING WHINE, the fork still sticks out of his neck.  Blood

drips into his eyes from a gash above his forehead.  Yet even on

his knees, he is an imposing figure.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Dussander, puzzled by the commotion, presses his ear against the

door.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

Archie blocks the stairs from Todd.

But Archie is too disoriented to move.  Summoning all his

courage, Todd pokes the shovel into him, as if to prod him out

of the way.

But when the blade of the shovel touches him, Archie counters

violently, grabbing the metal end and swinging it to the side.

Todd holds tightly to the handle, an act which sends him flying

across the cellar.  The shovel stays with Archie, and now he

wields it like it were a child's toy.  He slashes it viciously

through the air.  Todd hides under the stairs, watching Archie

duel with the shadows.  Todd bumps into something.  Archie hears

him.  Through the slats in the staircase we see Archie jabbing

the shovel at Todd.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Alarmed, Dussander reaches for the lock, but hesitates, forever

mindful of the chance of being duped.  His ear goes back against

the door.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

Archie pushes the shovel in too far and can't retrieve it.  Todd

grabs the other end and pulls it through.

Fed up, he comes around from under the stairs and confronts

Archie.  Archie sees him and takes a step toward him.

Archie steps closer.  Instantly, Todd tightens his grip on the

shovel.  He is no longer afraid.  He swings the shovel at

Archie's head striking him.  Archie staggers back, stunned, but

then charges forward.  Todd strikes him again, this time with

more force and anger.  Todd lifts the shovel to strike again,

but this time catches the ceiling light with the metal blade.

The glass shatters.  The room goes black.

A second later we HEAR a SHARP, authoritative BLOW, followed

quickly by another, then another.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Dussander knows something is wrong.  He slides the bolt back and

slowly turns the handle.  He opens the door slightly and speaks

into the darkness.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

A shaft of dull light from the kitchen cuts across the cellar

floor, revealing Archie's slain body.  An expanding pool of

blood seeps out from his head.  As the door upstairs opens

wider, the light falls on Todd standing over Archie, the shovel

still in his hands, his face spattered with blood.

The Todd we knew only a minute ago has been transformed.  He

stares up at Dussander, not with the eyes of a boy, but with

those of a man.  A man who can no longer be saved.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Quietly Dussander moves away from the door, leaving Todd alone

with what he has done.  He slides the furniture away from the

door, knowing, as Todd does, that the two of them are now

working together.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - LATER

Todd's face is suddenly illuminated as he screws a fresh light

bulb into the dangling cord.  He picks up the shovel.  Archie's

body still lies where it fell.  Todd goes to the open area of

the floor and with a forceful stomp, plunges the shovel into the

dirt.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT - LATER

Todd smacks the back of the shovel on the finished grave to pack

the dirt, then smooths the area over to destroy any markings.

He is sweaty, dirty, and tired.  But his manner is cool and

efficient as he concentrates intently on the matters at hand.

He runs upstairs, hopping over the bloody spot where Archie's

body used to be.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Todd bursts through the door.  He notices the old man in his

chair.  Dussander doesn't look good.  Todd levels his eyes at

him.  His voice snaps with the authority of an S.S. commander.

Dussander points to the cabinet under the sink.  Todd throws the

door open and pulls out bottles of cleaner.

Todd checks the clock, it is 9:25.  He gets the bottle and a

bucket and goes for the cellar.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

A SERIES OF SHOTS showing Todd cleaning up the mess.  He is on

the stairs sponging up the blood.  Then we see him skimming the

area where the pool of blood was with the shovel.  The NEXT SHOT

has him sprinkling fresh dirt over the same area.  Then, on his

knees, he carefully picks up bits of broken glass from the light

bulb and drops them into a bucket.  In the FINAL SHOT, Todd

stands on the steps as his eyes comb the cellar.  The shovel has

been cleaned and replaced.  The floor looks smooth and even.

Satisfied, he goes upstairs.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

The table has been put back in its spot.  Todd is in his boxer

shorts.  A SHOT of a washing machine, somewhere else in the

house, shows us that Todd is cleaning his bloodied clothes.  Now

he is washing the dishes in the sink.  The water in the sink is

a murky pink.  He pulls the meat fork from the suds and holds it up.

He looks at the clock - 10:15.

Todd dries the murder weapon and puts it away.  For a moment he

slows down, a hint of a smile suddenly comes over him.

Dussander sees something is different about him.

The sound of Dussander's voice snaps Todd out of his funk.  He

is all business again.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT - LATER

Todd is back in his clothes.  He wears a white T-shirt.  He

brings a knife up to Dussander's neck and slices down his suit,

still stained by Archie's blood.

Todd takes off Dussander's shoes and balls them up in the

tattered suit.

He holds up Dussander's bathrobe.  The old man slips into it

with difficulty as Todd dumps the bloodied clothing into a trash

bag.  Dussander looks at Todd's T-shirt.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT - LATER

The blood and glass have been removed.  Todd runs a mop over the

floor.  His job is almost over.  Sweat pours down his face.  The

same for Dussander.

Todd puts the mop away.  He surveys the room as before.

Dussander does the same.  There is a strange silence as the two

of them look around the room for anything damning.

Todd turns to face Dussander.  He brings his face up to his and

speaks softly.

Dussander cannot argue.

INT. DUSSANDER'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Todd goes straight for the mantle.  He moves the clock and finds

the key.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Todd holds a blank piece of paper in front of Dussander and

hands him a pen.

Dussander starts to scrawl his name across the paper.

With great difficulty, Dussander does as he is told.  Todd folds

the paper and stuffs it into his pocket with the pen.  He picks

up the phone and dials.

Todd nearly bites his lip in half.  Dussander notices the slip

and cringes.

He hangs up.

Todd sees a pack of cigarettes on the table.

Dussander is not amused.  Todd lights two cigarettes and lets

them burn down in the ashtray.  He picks up the phone again and

dials.

He hangs up.  He sits down across from Dussander.  The old man

is near death, but through the slit of an eye he watches Todd.

The stare between them is lethal.  For a long moment this

continues until...

Todd turns to go and stops.

Todd dashes out of the room.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS - NIGHT

Dick's Porsche speeds along the same streets that Todd took two

hours earlier.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Todd bursts through the door and drops to his knees in front of

the dresser.  He yanks on the drawer.  It comes half way out and

stops.

The drawer flies out, knocking Todd back.  He digs through it,

the contents of Dussander's fake lives spilling about the room.

He finds the box at the bottom.  As he expected, it is locked.

Without a moment's hesitation, he slams the box down on the post

of the bed frame.  It doesn't open, but bits of the frame fly

across the room.

On the third attempt the tiny box shatters.  Todd freezes, cocks

his head.  Outside he hears the distinct ROAR and sputter of the

Porsche engine.  He grabs two pages of a letter.  There is

nothing he can do about the mess in the room.  He closes the

door on his way back to the kitchen.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT - LATER

Todd enters the kitchen and places the pages on the table just

in time to look up and see Dick standing in the kitchen doorway.

We hold on Dick for a moment as he takes it all in: Dussander,

Todd, and the room.  A hint of uncertainty crosses his face.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT - LATER

A PARAMEDIC straps Dussander onto a stretcher.  Todd is talking

to the other one.

Dick sees the letter on the table and picks it up.  Todd watches

him.  Without much of a thought, Dick puts the letter back on

the table.

The medics wheel Dussander out.

Todd doesn't like Dick's apprehension.  He grabs his father's

hand and leads him out of the room.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

TWO ORDERLIES push a gurney through the door.  A man in his late

thirties, DAVID KRAUSS, walks with them.  A NURSE, following

behind, addresses him.

David approaches the gurney.  Lying prone is BEN KRAUSS, 70.

David kisses him on the forehead.

The orderlies lift Ben onto his bed.

The orderlies, the nurse and David leave the room.  Ben notices

his roommate in the next bed.  It is Dussander, who has been

watching all of this quietly.

Dussander smiles politely.

Pause.

Ben looks oddly at Dussander.  The wheels of his memory slowly,

very slowly, begin to turn.

But Ben's words are lost on a sleeping man.  He continues to

stare at Dussander.

INT. DUSSANDER'S HOUSE - DAY

Todd comes through the front door, using his key to get in.

INT. DUSSANDER'S KITCHEN - DAY

Todd grabs the letter off the table and stuffs it into a plastic

trash bag.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - DAY

Todd manages to get the drawer back into the dresser.  He throws

all the remaining debris and bits of wood into the trash bag.  He

goes to the closet and searches through the clothes.  He

finds the S.S. uniform, now tattered from many night of fitful

sleep, and places it in the trash bag.

INT. HILLCREST SAVINGS AND LOAN - DAY

The BANK CLERK behind the counter is a fat, elderly woman,

pleasant-faced and not too sharp.  Todd stands solemnly on the

other side of the counter.  She stares hard at a piece of paper.

We see that it is a note: "Please allow my grandson, Todd, to

retrieve my insurance documents from my safety deposit box.

Thank you, Arthur Denker."  It is Dussander's phony signature

at the bottom.

The woman looks up at Todd, the key in his hand, then back down

at the note.

INT. BANK SAFE - DAY

The woman inserts her key into the first lock and Todd does the

same in the second.  A moment later he is holding the box in his

hands.

She escorts him to a small room where he can view the contents

of the box.  She leaves.

INT. BANK - SMALL ROOM - DAY

Todd puts the box on a table and opens it.  It is nearly empty:

a few old photographs, some financial records.  There is no

document.  Todd is swept up in a wave of emotion-- anger,

relief, contempt.  He's been played like a fool, but is

nonetheless grateful.  Ultimately, he is so overwhelmed a laugh

springs from his lips.

He scoops out the contents of the box and puts them in his pocket.

INT. BANK SAFE - DAY

On the other side of the door, the clerk listens curiously to

Todd's words.  She pushes her ear against the door to hear more.

EXT. WOODED AREA - DUSK

Todd has dug a hole in a remote location.  He empties the

letters, the S.S. uniform, and the contents from the safety

deposit box into the hole.  A little lighter fluid.  A match.

Todd watches the evidence burn.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY - LATER

Todd stands next to the bed holding a small clump of flowers.

Dussander notices the bouquet.

Todd is aware that Ben is listening, even though he is

pretending not to.  Todd goes to put the flowers in a glass of

water.  He sets the glass on the table by the bed.

He sits in the chair by the bed and lowers his voice.

He flicks a tattered photo onto the bed.  We recognize it as one

from the safety deposit box.  It is a black and white portrait

of a woman and a small boy.

Dussander grins weekly.

Todd drags a screen over to prevent Ben from hearing.  Long pause.

Dussander looks almost hurt to hear Todd say it.  Pause.

Dussander waves him over with his finger.  Reluctantly, Todd

brings his ear an inch from Dussander's mouth.

Todd pulls his head back, stands up.  He contemplates the

question, ...confessing.  He touches Dussander on the shoulder.

He turns for the door.

Todd resigns himself to stay.  He picks up a magazine and begins

to read, not even looking at Dussander.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY - LATER

Todd emerges from behind the screen toward the door.  Dussander

is asleep.

Todd is startled.

Todd is starting to be wary of where this is going.

Todd starts to leave.

Todd heads for the door.  He stops, turns back to Dussander's

bed.  He contemplates something... waking him.  He decides

against it.

Todd exits.  Ben sits quietly for a moment, thinking.  He turns

on the television-- "The Price is Right".  We hear it over the

following.  Ben glances over at the screen which separates him

from Dussander.  Slowly his eyelids begin to get heavy.  He

starts to nod off.  But as sleep begins to envelope him, his

eyes suddenly fly open.  A surge of terror burns across his

face.

He sits up frightened.  A single crutch stands next to the bed.

He grabs it.  He strips away his covers and the restraints on

his leg, once or twice shoving his hand over his mouth to quell

a painful scream.  He gets to his feet awkwardly, hobbling,

half-dragging his bad leg.  Every step he takes is a study in

agony.

ANGLE on the screen.  It slides out of the way, revealing Ben

staring down at the sleeping Dussander.  In the pained struggle

to keep silent, he brings his face right up to Dussander's,

close enough to smell his breath.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - CONTINUING

Ben stumbles out of his room into the hall.  The crutch falls to

the ground.  He slides against the wall toward the nurses'

station.  Tears stream down his face.  As he clutches the wall,

we glimpse the faded green numbers on his forearm.

He reaches the nurse's desk.  She is on the phone.  He grabs her

by the shoulder and pulls her face up into his.  She lets out a

startled SCREAM.  But Ben's emotion stops her from resisting.

He is sobbing uncontrollably.  Orderlies appear and pull him off

of her.  He collapses to the ground, consumed by grief.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Dussander slowly wakes up for the first time since his surgery.

A large black man, DARREN, stands above him changing the IV bag.

He notices Dussander is awake.  Dussander's voice is low and

hoarse from hours of sedation.

Darren finishes with the IV unit and goes to the door.

Dussander watches him, a bit puzzled, but his eyes are closed

again before Darren is out of the room.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY - LATER

Dussander wakes up again.  Something is different in his room.

He looks to the table next to him.  All his magazines are gone.

He looks to the other side of the room.  Ben is gone, his bed

stripped of all linen.  Finally he looks to the door.  It is

cracked open.  Two men in suits are talking in the hallway.  One

we will come to know as Detective GETTY.  The other is a

subordinate.  Dussander is clearly bothered by what he sees.  He

reaches over for the call button and rings it several times.

A moment later Darren comes in.  Getty sees this and stops

talking.  He watches Dussander from the hall.

Darren readies Dussander's arm for an injection.

Before Dussander can protest, Darren sticks him with the needle.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

Dussander's eyes open.  The first thing he sees are three men,

all in suits, standing over him.

The voice comes from WEISKOPF, 40's.  His suit is dark gray,

well tailored, probably European.  He speaks eloquently despite

an accent that shows roots of Europe and the Middle East.

Dussander looks over at Ben's former bed.

Weiskopf sits on the edge of the bed.  Dussander notices the pin

on his lapel.  A small, silver Star of David.

Dussander reaches for the Call button and stops in horror.  He

looks at his hands.  His fingertips are smeared with black ink.

He looks up at the men in disbelief.

The detective, GETTY, snaps a few pictures of Dussander.  The

other man is FBI Special Agent DAN RICHLER.

The three men are out the door.

INT. TODD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Todd's room is dark as he lies on the floor, writing something

on a pile of index cards.  The only light comes from the hallway

through the open door of the bedroom.  Todd is deep in thought,

but from the bits of shredded index cards we can tell the

writing is not coming easily.

Monica appears in the doorway.

Todd doesn't notice her.  He stares down at the card.  Finally he

looks up, as if it took her voice a few seconds to register in

his mind.  His response is hardly audible.

Monica reaches in to his room to turn on the light.  She touches

the switch but then pulls her hand back.  Todd is back at the

note card.  She looks at him oddly, worried, but then steps away

from the door and goes downstairs.

Todd's lips are moving, as if he were speaking to himself.  He

pauses.  Then, in a sudden gust of inspiration begins to write

furiously.  He finishes and stands up, catching his reflection

in the mirror above his desk.  In the eerie half-light, he

stares at the ghost-like image of himself.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - FOOTBALL FIELD (GRADUATION) - DAY

Todd, in cap and gown, is seeing his parents to their seats in

the second row.  Ed French comes up to Todd and puts his hand on

his shoulder.  Todd is startled.

They shake hands.  French sees Dick and Monica sitting behind

Todd.  Before Todd can stop him, he introduces himself.

Dick and Monica are the picture of happiness, hardly the

dysfunctional drunkards that French believed them to be.  They

all shake hands.

French is a bit puzzled.

A WOMAN behind Monica taps her on the shoulder.

Monica turns away from French.  Suddenly, the band strikes up

opening notes to "Pomp and Circumstance."

Todd and French dash off in different directions.

EXT. GRADUATION - DAY - LATER

Standing at the podium is a black, female graduate, TASHA

LITTLE.  She is reading the end of a poem by Emily Dickinson.

Principal Morgan and Todd sit in chairs next to the podium. In

the b.g. is the graduating class, Joey is among them.   French

sits among the faculty, who are lined up to the right of the

podium.

There is polite applause from the audience as she takes her seat

and Morgan goes to the podium.

Pause.  More applause.

Todd's eyes scan the crowd indifferently.  He notices Becky,

seated in the audience near some friends.

The crowd burst into applause.

EXT. DUSSANDER'S HOUSE - DAY

A half dozen police cars are in front of the house.  One OFFICER

is blocking off the entire yard with yellow tape.  A news van

pulls up.

EXT. GRADUATION - DAY - CONTINUING

Todd shakes Morgan's hand and takes the podium.  The crowd

quiets.  Todd begins:

INT. DUSSANDER'S HOUSE - DAY

Weiskopf and Richler, both wearing rubber gloves, are carefully

looking through the contents of Dussander's dresser.  They pour

over everything, placing some items in clear plastic bags.  A

few DEPUTIES are milling around.  Richler picks up a small

photograph of a young woman.  Todd's voice comes in:

Detective Getty comes in.

INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - DAY

Getty comes down the steps followed by Weiskopf and Richler.

Weiskopf gazes across the cellar.  Whatever he sees disturbs

him.  He turns away and goes back up the stairs.

Richler, moves to the rail and looks out, disgusted.  He pulls a

handkerchief from his pocket and covers his nose and mouth.  A

DEPUTY, wearing rubber gloves, carries the shovel up to him.

EXT. GRADUATION - DAY - CONTINUING

As Todd speaks, he notices his parents, Becky, various teachers.

His eyes stop on Ed French, who is looking oddly at something in

the crowd.

ANGLE ON FRENCH

French notices an elderly couple walking down the aisles of

seated spectators as if they are looking for someone.

They are Victor and Agnes Bowden, looking for Dick and Monica.

Todd sees them too.  He pauses almost imperceptibly.  He looks

back at French.

Todd's grandparents come down the aisle to see Dick and Monica

in the second row.  They start to slide in, causing a slight

ruckus.  Dick is surprised to see his parents, but smiles and

makes room for them.  French watches all of this curiously.

A connection is made between French, Todd, and the Bowden

family.

EXT. GRADUATION - DAY - LATER

Morgan is reading the last of the names as the graduates file

past and collect their diplomas.

The crowd cheers as the graduates throw their caps into the air.

The band begins to play.

Todd, still pale, bolts off the stage.  He reaches his parents.

French starts to walk down to the Bowdens.  Todd goes up to his

mother.

Todd ignores her.

Todd and his family start off.  As they leave the CAMERA MOVES

to show Ed French working his way through the crowd past the

spot where they had been standing.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

The following series of images appear under music:

The quiet wing of this hospital has transformed into a frenzied

sea of reporters, cameramen, photographers, and police officers.

Everyone is struggling for a glimpse of the infamous celebrity

through the window that looks into Dussander's room.  Inside,

Weiskopf and Richler are speaking to the doctors.  Getty stands

to the side, instructing the DEPUTY who guards the door.

Through all of this Dussander lies like a fossil in his bed as

the bodies whirl around him.  Darren enters the room to change

Dussander's IV bag.

Suddenly the door flies open and a young photographer dashes in,

snapping pictures wildly.  Getty and the other officers descend

upon him.  The camera flashes.  Other photographers try to get

in but are blocked.  Pandemonium.

Yet Dussander seems oblivious to the commotion.  His eyes are

nothing more than glazed slits, his mouth hangs open.  Darren

runs toward the door to help.  Dussander's eyes open slightly.

There is life behind them after all.  He turns his attention

imperceptibly toward his IV bag...

The camera moves away from Dussander to the window.  Outside in

the parking lot, groups of protesters have gathered.  Some hold

candles.  Others chant and wave signs.  News reporters surround

them.

INT. LIVING ROOM - BOWDEN HOUSE - DAY

ANGLE on a ticking wall clock.

Todd appears apprehensive as he sits down on the couch next to

his mother.  She puts her arm around him.  He is pale and

glassy-eyed.  His parents don't look much better.  Dick is

especially nervous and stands off to the side, watching everyone

intently.  Richler and Weiskopf sit across the room in chairs.

A moment passes between Weiskopf and Todd.

Todd starts to rub his stomach.

He gets up before Richler can answer walks toward the stairs.

He vanishes up the stairs.  They all watch him go.  Monica turns

to Richler.

ANGLE on Dick.

INT. BOWDEN HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY

The faucet runs at full blast to hide the noise as Todd digs

through the medicine cabinet and takes out a bottle of Pepto-

Bismol.  He takes off the cap and gulps down what is left in the

bottle.  He finishes and takes a few deep breaths.

As he turns around he catches his reflection in the mirror.  An

empty bottle in his hand, a bright pink ring around his lips, a

few pink splotches down his shirt-- he looks totally ridiculous.

Todd can't help but laugh.

INT. BOWDEN HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The interview continues.  The clock ticks on.  Richler drinks

from a coffeee cup.  Todd is back in his seat.

Pause.

Todd looks at Weiskopf.  This is the first question he has asked

and Todd is more wary of him than of Richler.  Todd shrugs

innocently.

Todd looks at her.

Silence.  Richler notices the tension in the room.  He looks at

Weiskopf.  Finally, he speaks to Dick.

He and Weiskopf stand.  Dick is almost surprised that they are

leaving so soon.

Weiskopf nods good-bye.

They are almost to the door, when Richler stops.

He holds the photo up to Todd.  It is a picture of Archie in

military dress, probably a blow-up of his military ID.  Todd

stares at it for a moment.  His face shows no reaction.

He smiles.  Weiskopf opens the door and the two men leave.

INT. BOWDEN HOUSE - TODD'S BEDROOM - DAY

From his window Todd sees Richler and Weiskopf talking by their

gray sedan.

INT. BOWDEN HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

Dick is half-way up the stairs when he hears yelling coming from

Todd's room.  He pauses a moment.  Most of Todd's words aren't

clear, but the profanity sure is...

INT. BOWDEN HOUSE - TODD'S BEDROOM - DAY

After a moment, the sedan pulls away.  Todd turns away from the

window and we see that he is holding the barrel of the rifle in

one hand and the scope in the other.

He takes a few breaths, tries to calm down.  A burst of nervous

laughter slips out of him.

There is a KNOCK at the door.  Two seconds later Dick comes in.

DICK'S POV: Todd stands in the middle of his room.  The gun

pieces are nowhere in sight.

Dick grabs his son and pulls him close.  Todd doesn't know how

to respond.  For Dick, it is like hugging a phone pole.  He

knows something is terribly wrong.  Todd stands stiff in his

father's arms until he releases him.

He smiles at his father, comfortingly.  Dick is not comforted.

Dick kisses Todd's forehead.  He turns to leave and stops.

Dick tries to smile and goes out, the door, leaving Todd alone.

EXT. BOWDEN HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

The garage door opens and Dick backs the Porsche into the

street.  Monica is with him.  Todd, from the upstairs window,

watches them go.

INT. BOWDEN HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY

Todd is near the end of his rope, trying to hold himself

together.  We see him splashing water on his face in the

bathroom.  He gazes into the mirror, transfixed by the ghost-

like image reflected back at him.  Todd pounds his fist against

the sink.  He can stand it no longer.  He darts out of the

bathroom.

EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE - DAY

Todd drives his mother's Honda wagon towards the entrance of the

hospital and for the first time witnesses the scope of

Dussander's discovery.  News vans are everywhere.  The

protesters have grown in number.  A line of cars wait for

admittance into the parking lot.  A policeman stands a few feet

away from Todd, directing cars in, turning others away.  He is

moving toward Todd.  Horns honk around him.  Todd sees that more

police officers are standing by the door of the hospital.  The

nearby policeman notices Todd and walks closer.  Todd doesn't

wait.  He pulls the car out of line and drives off.

INT. HONDA WAGON - DAY

Todd holds the steering wheel with a white-knuckled grip.  His

face is sweaty and flushed.  He rocks back and forth as he tries

to reassure himself...

He is almost calm when he nears his house.  But it doesn't last.

He sees something he can hardly believe.

EXT. BOWDEN HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

An old Vo1vo is parked on the street in front of the house.

Standing on the porch, sneakers and all, is Ed French.  Todd

pulls into the driveway and gets out.  French has a cautious air

about him as he walks toward Todd.

The two of them are standing on opposites sides of the car.

French pulls a folded newspaper page from his pocket.  He starts

to move around the car toward Todd, but Todd circles the other

way, keeping the car in between himself and French.

INT. HOSPITAL - OUTSIDE DUSSANDER'S ROOM - DAY

Richler is speaking to the reporters.  Cameras and lights are in

his face.  His words are low, serving as a backdrop, but we can

tell that he is telling them of the plans to relocate Dussander.

Weiskopf stands close by...

EXT. BOWDEN HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

While Todd almost seems to be enjoying this odd dance around the

car, French does not.

INT. HOSPITAL - DUSSANDER'S ROOM - DAY

Dussander is alone in the room as Richler addresses the

reporters outside.  His eyes open wide and his movements are the

liveliest they have been since he was discovered.  He reaches

over to his IV unit and begins to disconnect the tube from the

bag...

EXT. BOWDEN HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Todd becomes more animated, more threatening with every word.

Somehow it is as though French is now retreating from Todd as

they circle the car.

French is puzzled by the question.  He has no answer.

French stops.

INT. HOSPITAL - DUSSANDER'S ROOM - DAY

Liquid spills onto the floor as the tube comes loose from the

bag.  Dussander sits back and pulls the free end of the tube up

to his mouth.  His lips wrap around it and his face tightens as

he begins to blow....

EXT. BOWDEN HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Todd starts moving again.  French does the same.

Todd comes around the rear of the car and stops at the door to

the back seat.  He opens it.

Todd bends down to get something from the back seat.  His voice

is muffled from the inside of the car.

Todd pops back up holding the rifle, fully assembled and aimed

at French's chest.

Todd rapid-fires.  French's chest explodes red as his lifeless

body sails back onto the grass.  In the front yard, a dozen

birds evacuate a tree in a panicked exodus.  Todd swoons back on

his heels, overcome by something.  But it isn't pain, rather,

it's a rush of pleasure.  A laugh slips out.

INT. HOSPITAL - DUSSANDER'S ROOM - DAY

Dussander takes the tube from his mouth and lets it fall to the

floor.  The camera moves along the tube and stops at Dussander's

arm, where it ends.  He lies back in his bed and waits...

EXT. BOWDEN HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Todd regains his balance.  French stares wide-eyed as Todd steps

up to him, the muzzle aimed at French's head.  Todd grins

widely.  For the first time he looks ...

A single round obliterates half of French's skull.  Todd chokes

back a giggle like a drunk chokes back a belch.

INT. HOSPITAL - DUSSANDER'S ROOM - DAY

Dussander lurches up in the bed in a spastic, contortive fit as

the air embolism reaches his heart.  His arm flails against the

IV unit, sending it crashing to the floor.  The monitors next to

him reflect a drastic turn in his condition.  The door flies

open and a pair of nurses charae in through the swarm of

journalists.  Richler and Weiskopf run in and the eager

cameramen follow.  The room is bathed in flash explosions as the

nurses try to subdue Dussander.

INT. BOWDEN HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY

Todd throws open a cabinet door above the workbench and eyes the

boxes and boxes of ammunition.  He lets out a beautifully wicked

laugh as he dumps all of the cartons into his backpack.  He

leaves the cabinet door open as he slips the bag over his

shoulder.

EXT. BOWDEN HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - STREET - DAY

Todd zooms out of the garage on his bike, the rifle slung over

one shoulder, the backpack over the other.  He zips past

French's body and out into the street.  In the distance, we hear

the faint, but rising wail of sirens.

A front door or two slams shut as Todd passes.  Suddenly he cuts

up between two houses.  A man standing in his back yard sees

Todd and freezes.  Todd ignores him.  He steers the bike through

the yard and picks up the dirt path he has used so many times

before.

INT. HOSPITAL - DUSSANDER'S ROOM - DAY

From above we see Dussander's eyes, wide open, motionless.  Yet

the expression on his face is one of odd satisfaction.  A doctor

pounds on his chest, barks orders.  The trauma team prepares the

defibrillator, but we know they are too late...

EXT. DIRT PATH - DAY

Todd rides fast over the dry, rocky ground.  The wind streaks

back his hair.  His excitement is as palpable as the grin

dancing across his face.

An aerial shot follows him as he angles the bike off the trail

and up a steep embankment.  As the camera moves ahead of him, we

see the crest of the hill, and beyond it...

The freeway, teeming with rush-hour traffic.

BLACK.

