We're underwater. Light fractures and scatters above. The

surface undulating gently as we GLIDE through a lake's

dark, tenebrous waters on a moonlit night.

A rowboat SLIPS across our field of vision. It's aluminum

hull cutting through the calm above, sending out small waves

as it makes it's way SLOWLY past.

Oars dip in on either side, propelling the small craft toward

deeper water. It slows. Stops. Bobs gently. We wait, watch --

And then suddenly, something large hits the surface above,

indistinct, exploding the calm, coming towards us, sinking

fast as TITLES END --

Prone, silhouetted against a sunlit window across the room.

A body, her back to us. The phone RINGS. Once, twice. The

body doesn't move. A girl's voice calls from downstairs.

The phone continues to RING. Still no movement.

Nothing. The ringing stops. A moment of silence, followed by

irritated teenage footsteps on the carpeted stairs.

The hallway door opens, we're in --

JEAN, fourteen, precocious, sticks her head in.

A sound from the body, still no movement.

New deal. She sits up. CLOSE ON: BARBARA FORDHAM, late-

forties, fully dressed. She gropes for the phone.

Barb stands, moves slowly to the window. Outside: identical

suburban homes, neutral house colors, lawns.

We STUDY Barb as she listens. Greying roots, no make-up, a

few extra pounds. A woman who, for reasons we don't yet

understand, has decided to stop giving a damn.

Jean passes in the hall. Stops, watching as her mother slowly

dissolves, reaches for the sill, lowers herself to sit.

A battered Honda Civic makes it's way up the long drive from

the highway below, dust swirling behind it. It's hot. Bright.

The Honda parks. IVY WESTON, forties, shy and soft-spoken,

attractive enough but expert at hiding it, climbs out.

Stares up at the trees surrounding the old farm house. The

precarious old barn out back and untended flower beds.

Johnna washes a dish at the sink. Watches Ivy's arrival

through the kitchen window. Makes no motion to go to her --

Ivy steps into the dark house.   Drapes drawn, lights off.

Steps into the open door of her father's study. His vacant

desk chair, untouched papers, dust mots settling in the

sunlight. She takes a moment, then heads upstairs. CARRYING

US with her. Finds Violet, in her bedroom, sitting in front

of her vanity in near darkness, smoking and on the phone.

Barely acknowledges Ivy's arrival. The room is unruly. Bed

unmade. Clothes draped over chairs. Dresser and night-stands

cluttered with pills, tissue boxes, creams and lotions.

Ivy wanders into the bath. More pills, wet towels on the

floor. She turns off the dripping faucet. Picks up towels.

Violet is off the phone, standing in hall, watching Ivy. Ivy

stops, briefly chastened. Violet opens a bottle of pills.

Ivy follows her mother, returns to tidying up.

Ivy moves on to hanging clothes back in the jammed closet.

Violet takes another pill.

Violet takes another pill.

Violet takes another pill.

Outside, the sound of a CAR pulling up. Ivy pulls back the

drape and the shade, finds a big Cadillac arriving.

MATTIE FAE AIKEN, sixty-one, Violet's baby sister, larger

than life, is in the passenger seat. CHARLIE, Mattie Fae's

husband, easy-going, is behind the wheel.

Charlie parks, they climb out into the blinding sunlight.

Ivy comes out of the house to meet them. Mattie Fae spots

her, makes a beeline for her, envelopes Ivy in a hug.

Mattie Fae sweeps past Ivy into the --

Ivy and Charlie follow.

The phone begins to RING.   Ivy eyes it apprehensively.

The phone STOPS.    Violet's answered it upstairs.

Ivy steals glances upstairs, concerned about the phone.

Mattie Fae pulls back a set of drapes, finds the light is

blocked by shades sealed with tape.

Bill slows the rental car to turn. Barb looks down the road      *

and across the field to where the farm house peeks out           *

through the trees, beckoning, threatening, ominous.              *

Bill pulls the rental in front of the house. Turns off the       *

ignition. Neither moves to get out. Jean realizes they've

stopped, pulls off her headphones.

Jean heads for the relative privacy of the fence at the edge

of the yard. Leaving Bill and Barb alone, watching.

Barbara climbs out.   Bill follows.

Bill unlocks the trunk, begins unloading luggage.

They head for the house with suitcases, wilting in the heat.

He laughs.    Barb looks over to Jean smoking by the fence.

Charlie is poking around the old stereo, finds an LP, the TV

beside him is tuned to a Royals game.

Johnna passes through, Charlie holds up his empty bottle.

Barbara and Bill have entered, are quickly descended upon by

Mattie Fae and Charlie. Hugs, overlapping dialogue.

Oh my God, Barbara --! You        Hi, Aunt Mattie Fae --

give me some sugar!

Bill!     Look how skinny you     Hi, Mattie Fae.

are!

Jean enters behind her parents, stands sheepishly.

My gosh, you're so big! Look       `Lo, Bill. Man you have

at your boobs! Last time I         dropped some weight, haven't

saw you, you looked like a         you? Hello, sweetheart.

little boy!

Violet appears on the stairs, rushes to Barbara.

Ivy appears at the top of the stairs, watches her mother in

her sister's arms. Bill turns to Charlie, quietly:

No.                                No, huh-uh.

What am I going to do?             It's okay, Mom.

Violet takes them in, disoriented.

Vi hugs Jean. Johnna slips in, leaves a beer for Charlie.

Ivy, still standing above on the stairs.

Yes, she does.                     I love your hair, that looks

No, he can't. We have to get         Maybe we should call him,

back.                                Mattie Fae --

Jean steps out onto the porch. Sees Johnna across the road

by the fence. Heads for her --

Johnna is cutting off sprigs of wild mint entangled in the

fence, standing in what was once a vegetable garden.

Johnna keeps working, Jean watches.

A beaded pouch in the shape of a turtle.

Jean recoils.   Johnna smiles.

Johnna starts back for the house with her mint.       Off Jean --

A screened in back porch off the kitchen. Bill and Barb sit

at an old linoleum table.

Violet stands smoking, unhappily watching Charlie and Mattie

Fae climb into the Caddie and disappear down the gravel

drive, heading back to Tulsa.

Johnna enters with her mint, crosses into the kitchen.

Johnna returns with glasses of iced tea, each with a sprig of

mint, delivers them to Bill and Barbara.

Johnna cuts into a freshly baked apple pie in the kitchen.

Jesus Christ.                     Vi, you sure there wasn't

Johnna places pieces of pie in front of Bill and Barb.

Ivy enters with her coffee cup, runs water in it at the sink.

Outside, her mother, sister, and Bill on the back porch.

Johnna sits at the kitchen table behind Ivy. Johnna stands,

joins Ivy at the sink. Ivy hadn't seen her there.

Ivy looks to Johnna, embarrassed. But Johnna just takes

Ivy's cup from her, finishes cleaning it.

Johnna smiles, nods to Ivy.       Leaves the kitchen.

Don't get started on that --         Really, I don't even

Ivy eavesdrops at the sink, unsure if she should stay or go.

Bill stands, picks up a plate, pushes his way back into the

kitchen. Ivy hears him coming, but doesn't have time to

escape. Goes to the refrigerator instead.

Am I going to have to             You know you were Beverly's

separate you two?                 favorite; don't pretend you

Barbara follows Bill. Ivy finds iced tea, pours herself

some. Tries to make herself invisible -- it's not hard to do.

Violet trails behind them into the kitchen.

Barbara notices Ivy, standing there, Christ. This isn't a

conversation she'd like to be having in front of her sister.

Violet sees Ivy too -- could care less.

Violet goes. Barb and Bill exchange a look. Barb looks to

Ivy, who's blank. Barb takes a beat, follows Violet.

Violet is closing the bathroom door.       Barb stops her.

Violet starts to break down, sits on the lidded toilet.

Barbara kneels, takes her mother's hand.

Jean walks down the hall, perusing photos of her ancestors.

Rail-thin, sunburned dust bowl farmers, WWII GIs standing in

front of battered Packards before shipping out to die on the

beaches of Normandy. Violet and Bev on their wedding day.

Jean's mother and aunts in grade school, with prom dates.

The photos end in a doorway that leads to a narrow, wooden

staircase. Jean climbs it to --

Finds Johnna on her bed in the small ascetic attic room,

reading T.S. Eliot. Jean KNOCKS on the open door.

Johnna is clearly a bit uncomfortable. But:

From her pocket, Jean takes a glass pipe and a bud.

Jean notices a framed photo on the night stand.

He opens the book, perusing the first pages.       Reads.

Bill's taken aback, but doesn't want to overreact.

Barbara heads into the yard to get away from him.

Jean's on the small bed in the darkened room. Staring at the

ceiling, listening to her parents argue.

Bill chases Barbara into the yard.

Jean listens in the dark to her parents fighting -- as she

has many times before. Heads out into the hallway to screen

door leading to the upstairs porch.

Bill turns, starts back for the house.

Barbara, bleary-eyed, moves quickly down the dark hall in

her robe. Bill follows in his boxers and T-shirt, pulling

on pants. Barb goes to Vi's door, KNOCKS.

She opens the door. Over her we FIND: Violet, entombed in

her room. Squinting against the intrusive hall light.

Barbara does, starts for the staircase, meets the just

awakened Jean coming out of her room, concerned.

Barbara descends the stairs, trailed by Bill. The SHERIFF

waits on the porch, late-forties, handsome, Stetson in hand.

They go to him, but WE HANG BACK with Jean, watching the

scene outside unfold. Bill shakes the Sheriff's hand. The

Sheriff speaks earnestly to Barbara and Bill.

We can't hear what's being said, only murmurs until --

Barbara sinks to her knees. Bill holds her. Jean watches.

Johnna enters, snaps on the light, starts a pot of coffee.

Stoic, inscrutable.

A big pre-dawn sky is changing from black to blue. The

Sheriff walks to his cruiser, kills the flashers. Bill joins

him, still barefoot.

Bill looks off.   Song birds begin their pre-dawn chatter.

And now the full weight of it hits Bill. After a moment --

Barb pulls on clothes, rakes a brush through her hair. Jean

appears in the door, watches her. After a moment:

She drops the brush. And then an odd sound intrudes from

downstairs, a song: "Lay Down, Sally" by Eric Clapton.

The music is LOUD. We follow Barbara and Jean halfway down

the stairs to REVEAL: Violet, high as a kite, doing a jerky

little dance by the stereo. The Sheriff stands uncomfortably

by the door, his hat in hand. She shuffles over to him.

She laughs at her inability to speak. He takes a Pall Mall

from his shirt pocket, hands it to her. Lights it for her.

He nods.   Bill comes back in from outside.

Johnna steps in from the kitchen, pensively observing.

Violet abandons her dance, separates invisible threads in the

air. The others stand frozen, staring at her.

The sun's just topped the horizon, throws long early shadows

across the flat expanse of prairie. Scattered trees, a

ribbon of asphalt leading to a distant lake, telephone poles.

We're HIGH ABOVE the country road, following the Sheriff

cruiser below. Barb's rental sedan trails behind.

Bill drives, Ivy up front with him. Barbara sits in the back

with Jean. Watches the sheriff's car ahead.

The cruiser slows, pulls through a pipe gate and over a

cattle-crossing, heads for a small collection of emergency

vehicles parked around a brush-strewn cove. Bev's old Chevy

pick-up truck sits to one side.

The cars stop.    The Sheriff gets out.

Bill goes.    Barb fixes Jean with a look.

They watch the men. A resolute Bill returns to get Barbara

and Ivy. The sisters climb out, follow him to the water's

edge. Jean waits a moment, then steps out of the car.

Watches her father lead her mother down the small cracked

concrete boat ramp to where the Sheriff waits by a covered

body. As the Sheriff pulls back the tarp --

White walls, bright overhead light. We're CLOSE on a man's

pale, lifeless hand. Another hand enters frame with a

sponge, begins cleaning off the mud, filth.

The Weston clan walks to Beverly's Lincoln, Bill, Jean. Barb

and Ivy help a distraught Violet. All wear mourning black.

Beverly's sodden shoes are removed, his socks.

His limp, greyish arm is guided into a starched white shirt-

sleeve. The buttons carefully buttoned.

Bill drives. Jean beside him. Barbara and Ivy sit in the back

seat, flanking Violet. They ride in silence. We study their

faces, the brown countryside outside.

Bill notices something in his rearview, a red speck, coming

up fast, very fast. A sports car.

It's suddenly right behind them, filling his mirrors. It

waits for a semi loaded down with massive circular hay bales

to pass in the opposite lane, then --

ROARS around. A Ferrari, it's throaty V-10 RUMBLING as it

SCREAMS past, accelerates down the road. Bill and Jean

exchange a look, watch it disappear.

Strong male hands lift Beverly's now dressed body carefully

and place it into the casket. Adjust the pillow, comb his

hair into place, fold his hands across his chest.

We never see his face, never see his whole body. Only these

small, intimate pieces.

A few mourners enter the church as Bill pulls in to park,

discovers the Ferrari already there. A woman emerging.

KAREN WESTON, forty, lithe, climbing from the car.

STEVE HEIDEBRECHT, fifty, greying, athletic, tan and

handsome, gets out of the driver's side.

Mattie Fae and Charlie are waiting for them, start over as

Violet emerges into the blinding sun. Recoils slightly.

Mattie Fae catches her, whispers comforts into her ear, helps

her toward the church steps.

We stay back, watching the Westons enter the church --

Barbara drives, Karen beside her. Heat radiates off the

road. They follow Charlie's Caddie, Vi and Ivy visible in

the Caddie's back seat window ahead of us.

Here comes the red speck in the rearview again. The Ferrari

ROARS up behind them, pulls around to pass, HONKS as it

goes. Barb catches a glimpse of Jean in the passenger seat,

Bill jammed into the tiny back seat.

The AC isn't working, Barb's sweating, rolls down her window,

let's the wind whip her hair around.

Charlie slows, signals, turns onto the gravel road leading to

the Weston house. Barb follows, Karen still going strong --

Barbara leads Karen upstairs, Karen carries her suitcase,

Barbara carries Steve's. Karen's still talking.

They enter a bedroom, dump the luggage on the bed.

Barbara heads for the fan on the dresser, flips it on.

Barb sticks her face into the fan. Karen watches, what?

Violet pulls a dress from the closet; Mattie Fae sits,

rooting through a box of photos; Ivy stands by the door.

Look at this, Ivy --                 What's morbid about it?

I could kill that kid --             Why do you feel it necessary

Violet pulls more and more clothes from the closet, dumping

them on the bed. The pile is getting very large.

Johnna's at the sink, washing and breaking beans, every

kitchen surface is covered with the large dinner she's

preparing. Barbara enters, Karen still pursuing her.

Barb grabs a glass from the cabinet, opens the freezer for

ice, lets her head linger in the cold.

Barb gives up on the freezer, fills her glass with iced tea.

Barbara stares at her, what is she talking about?

Karen wraps her arms around Barbara.

The Ferrari pulls into the lot. Bill crawls out, heads for

the store. An anxious Jean calls after him.

Steve joins Jean, leans against the car. Throughout the

following they watch Bill shop for wine inside.

An impatient Jean watches her father comparing wines inside.

She sniffs. Doesn't smell much of anything really.

He sniffs the air, then sniffs her.

He whiffs, hard, breathing her in.

Bill pays inside, motions to Jean that he's hurrying.

Bill hustles out of the store, carrying several bags.

Crawls into the car. Steve grins to Jean over the roof of

the car, climbs in behind the wheel.

The closet is mostly empty now, the bed overflowing with

discarded clothes. Mattie Fae nurses a cocktail, hands a             *

photo to Violet.

Oh, now --                           You're still beautiful.

Violet finds something else in the closet for Ivy to try.

No, I won't leave it alone.           No, let's not leave it alone.

Ivy bursts into awkward laughter, Vi and Mattie squeal.

The Ferrari ROARS up the drive. Jean jumps out, races into

the house. Bill and Steve emerge, grab the wine.

Charlie, keys in hand, comes out, heading for his Caddie.

Charlie climbs in behind the wheel, pulls away.

They start up the porch steps with the wine.

Bill and Steve enter. Barbara's in the dining room with

Karen and Mattie Fae setting the table. Goes for the men.

She pulls a bottle of Merlot from Bill's grocery bag. Hears

something, looks into the living room as she passes. Jean

has just turned on the TV, LOUD. Barbara stares for a beat.

Steve's appeared in the living room archway.

Barb gives Jean a withering look, exits. Bill takes the wine

from Steve, follows. Steve lingers, watching the TV.

Karen enters from the dining room, sidles up to Steve.

Steve turns to her, embraces her. They kiss. His hands

wander, squeeze her ass. She giggles, then breaks it.

She goes.    He starts, but stops.    Quietly to Jean:

We're inside the bus, sitting next to a man, LITTLE CHARLES,

thirty-seven, rangy and awkward. He stares pensively out at

the passing Pawhuska storefronts as the bus SLOWS, pulls into

a parking lot next to the bank.

He spots Charlie, waiting, drinking a Coke. Little Charles

exhales, stands. Steps reluctantly out into the heat.

Charlie hands Little Charles his comb.

Charlie starts for the driver's side, stops when he sees

Little Charles weeping. Returns to him, comforts him.

Barbara bursts out of the back porch screen and into the

yard, heading to the old barn. Bill follows.

Barbara kicks at an old, stuck, door.       Enters --

Makes her way to the back where old dinner chairs hang from

nails pounded into the overhead beams.

I'm not blaming her, because         I'm on your side. How can we

I don't expect her to act any        fight when I'm on your side?

differently when her father          Barbara...Barbara, settle

is a selfish son-of-a-bitch.         down!

Barbara hands dusty battered chairs back to Bill.

Each now with chairs in hand, head out into --

And the blinding sunlight.    Start back for the house.

They've reached the back porch stairs. She turns on him.

Bill pushes past her up the stairs, disappears inside.

Violet stands in the middle of the room. Sunlight streams in

through the windows surrounding her. Approaches Beverly's

swivel chair, touches the back, ...slowly spins it ...sits.

Produces a bottle of pills, shakes one out, takes it.

Surveys the photos behind his desk. The girls. Vi and Bev

together in happier times. Picks up the hardback Meadowlark

Bill left. Finds Beverly's reading glasses on the desk, puts

them on. Thumbs through it, finds the dedication: simply:

Violet smiles ruefully, takes another pill.

Surveys the book with something bordering on disgust.

Another pill. Sits. Waiting. For what? She's not sure.

She takes a final look around, takes one last pill.

Johnna, Karen, Steve and Mattie Fae carry in serving dishes,

set them down on the already overladen table. Charlie pours

himself a sweet tea.

Mm-hmm.                         She's a wonder, this one.

Bill passes through, carries us into the living room where he

finds Jean, still watching the movie.

Ivy comes down the stairs, looking.

Ivy steps out onto the porch. Little Charles is by his

father's car, retrieving a Pyrex dish.

Shuts the door, rests the casserole on the hood.

She embraces him, kisses him. He looks toward the house.

Barbara, Bill, Mattie Fae, Charlie, Karen, and Steve are

already seated. The men have removed their suit coats.

Little Charles and Ivy enter with the casserole.

Ad-lib greetings, hugs, handshakes, Karen's introduction of

Steve. Ivy slips in and takes her seat. Little Charles goes

to put Mattie Fae's casserole on the table, but drops it.

It lands on the floor with a sickening SPLAT.

Oh Jesus --!                        Whoops.

Goddamn it --!                      O-pah!

Mom, I'm so sorry --                All right, nobody's hurt.

Little Charles helps Johnna clean up the mess.

You're not hurt.                    Mom, Jesus, I'm sorry --

Let it go, Mattie Fae.              It's not a party until

No, she won't --                    I don't eat meat.

You don't eat meat.                 Good for you.

Violet enters with a small framed photo of her and Bev.

Barbara takes it, places it on the sideboard.

That's nice.                       That's sweet.

An awkward beat. The men glumly put their suit coats back on.

All bow their heads.

A cell phone RINGS, playing the theme from Sanford and Son.

Steve digs through his pockets, finds the phone, checks it.

Steve hustles into the kitchen to talk on the phone.

Steve reenters from the kitchen, snapping his phone shut.

They begin to eat.     Everyone but Violet, who smokes instead.

It's so good --                     Yes, it is --

A silent moment.

It does.                             Yes.

Yes, weren't they --?                Preacher did a fine job.

Vi sticks her hand out, flat, wiggles it back and forth.

Really?   I thought it was --        Great, now we get some

Everybody's eating, passing food. Vi turns to Mattie Fae.

That's been gone for years.        That made me so sad!

Charlie's silverware clatters to the floor.       He appears to be

having some kind of attack.

Dad --?                             You okay, Uncle --

Laughter.    Charlie digs into his plate ravenously.

More laughter. Violet stares at Jean.

Silence.

Uncertain, Karen looks to Steve, then Barbara.

Beat.   Violet coolly studies Barbara.

Violet rises, her voice booming.

Vi, please --                        Settle down, Mom --

No one responds.

There's a long pause as everyone gathers themselves, then:           *

Little Charles suddenly stands.

He stumbles from the room. A long moment, then --

She pulls a bottle from her pocket, holds them up.

Barbara lunges at the bottle, she and Vi wrestle for it.

Bill and Ivy try to restrain Barbara; Mattie Fae tries to

restrain Violet. Others rise, ad-lib. Pandemonium.

Holy shit --                      Barbara, stop it --!

Hey, now, c'mon --!               Oh God --

Violet wrests the pills from Barb. Bill pulls Barb back into

her seat. Violet shakes the bottle, taunting Barb. Barb

lunges again, grabs her mother by the hair, toppling chairs,

they crash into the --

Tumble to the floor. Pandemonium, screaming. The family

rushes after them into the living room. Barb has her mother

pinned on the floor and is strangling her. Bill and Charlie

struggle to pull Barbara off, pry her fingers off Violet's

throat and get her away.

Johnna and Mattie Fae rush to Violet, get her to a chair.

She strides to her mother, looms over her.

The hallway is empty, but we hear the sounds of the search

coming from the bedroom. Barbara appears, looks through the

linen closet, looking behind stacked towels and old electric

blankets. Finds a bottle of pills in the back.

Ivy comes upstairs, followed closely by Karen. Hold out pill        *

bottles, Barb adds them to the ones she's already collected

in a large Ziplock bag.

Barb heads for the bathroom, lifts the toilet seat. Begins          *

dumping pills into the bowl. Karen examines the bottles.            *

Karen moves to her mother, sits next to her on the swing.

Barb leans against a fence post, Ivy hangs back.                      *

Karen takes a tube of hand creme from her purse.

Violet puts out her cigarette. Karen passes her the creme.

Violet lights another cigarette.                                    *

Silence.

Ivy shakes her head, goes inside. She's had enough of Violet

to last a lifetime.

An awkward moment.

Karen leans her head against her mother's shoulder, takes her

mother's hand. Off Barbara, watching this --

Barbara wakes, takes a moment to get her bearings. Early

sunlight pours in. Bill's still asleep. She sits up,

studies him. Surprised to find him beside her.

Barbara stands in the door. Closes her eyes, letting the          *

early morning sun warm her. After a long moment, Johnna

appears with a coffee mug. Barb takes it, nods her thanks.

Johnna smiles.

Barbara sits opposite DR. BURKE, a genial, charming and

remotely creepy small town doctor. Ivy stands. Violet is

visible out in the waiting room, Karen sitting with her.

Ivy suppresses a laugh.       Burke looks at Ivy, confused.

Barbara pulls out the Ziplock bag, throws a pill bottle at

Dr. Burke, bouncing it lightly off his head.

Throws another pill bottle at him.

She hits him with another pill bottle.

She hits him with another pill bottle.

She hits him with another pill bottle. He relents, waits for

her to get it out of her system. Only one problem with that

idea, though --

She hits him with another pill bottle.

Another pill bottle. And another pill bottle.

She pauses.    It seems she's done.

But then, another pill bottle.       And another.

She gets up to go, gets to the door, turns and fires one last

pill bottle at him. Leaves. Ivy lingers, grins at Burke.

The sun parched Indian grass and Turkey Toot are wilting but

stirred by prairie winds. Bev's old Lincoln follows a thread

of blacktop through the tall grass. Barb drives, Ivy up

front. Karen's in the back with Violet.

Barbara looks back, sees her mother means this literally,

pulls to the side of the road. Violet gets out quickly.

We stay with Barbara as she climbs out of the car, stares

across the road, waiting for Violet, who can be heard

retching. Karen and Ivy still in the car.

The sound fades as Barbara contemplates the prairie and for a

long moment... loses herself, back to this land, to her home.

Her expression is unreadable, enigmatic.

Then behind her, out of focus, we become aware of Violet

running away, across the prairie, through the tall grass.

Barbara turns, simply to get back in the car, sees Violet

running through the field.

Violet keeps running.

Barbara watches for another moment.

Barbara takes off after her. Ivy and Karen climb out, but

don't follow. Shield their eyes to watch the chase.

It's an odd sight, the two women, racing through the grass.

One almost seventy, the other nearing fifty.

Barbara is slow in her pursuit at first, maybe because of her

shoes, or maybe because she just feels silly. Then realizes

that Violet is not stopping... not unless Barbara stops her.

Violet runs through the tall grass, puts a foot wrong, goes

down. Barbara catches up, out of breath, collapses. They

lay on the ground, wheezing, sweating.

And now we see the full beauty of the land, the distant

horizon, the high cumulous clouds, the endless blue sky.

Barb and Violet two dots, lost in the unforgiving prairie.

Barb pulls the Lincoln in beside Charlie's Caddie and Ivy's

Honda. Shuts off the engine. Ivy and Karen climb out, start

back for the house. Barbara turns to Violet.

They take a long moment, then --                                      *

Karen turns, realizing they're not following. Should she go

back to the car? She decides no, continues inside.

Violet gets out, heads inside.      Barbara watches her go.

Ivy finds Little Charles watching television.

Ivy waits until Karen passes through, heads upstairs.

She sits beside him on the couch.

They hold hands.

He turns to look at her.

He considers this... then breaks into a huge smile, mutes the

TV, goes to the ancient, oak, electric piano, turns it on.

She joins him on the piano bench.

He plays, and quietly sings a gentle but quirky love song.

It's charming, touching.

She smiles, he smiles back. Midway through, Mattie Fae

enters, watches for a moment. Then breaks the spell.

Charlie comes down the stairs with their overnight bag.

Ivy and Little Charles go.

He goes. She takes a moment to collect herself, turns to

follow, finds Barbara standing out in the open kitchen door.       *

There's an awkward moment.

Karen and Steve enter from outside.

Karen and Steve retreat.      Barbara stares at Mattie Fae.

It's late, the house still. We MOVE through dark rooms,

drawn to the murmur of SOUND and a faint sound coming from

outside the kitchen --

Slowly DISCOVER: Jean and Steve sharing a joint, out by the

fence. She wears a long T-shirt; he wears sweat pants and a

sleeveless T-shirt. Both are barefoot.

He puts the joint in his mouth, lit end first. Their lips

nearly touch as he blows marijuana smoke into her mouth in a

steady stream. She nearly chokes.

She finally gasps, exhales, coughs.

Johnna wakes. Listens. Sits up.

Johnna makes her way down the attic stairs and into the

second floor hallway, the whispers below unintelligible.

Johnna steps into the main hallway.      Drawn to whispers, and

giggling from outside in the yard.

Johnna approaches carefully, can't yet see them.

Johnna pushes out the screen to DISCOVER: Steve kissing and

groping Jean, sliding his hand down between her legs.

Johnna grabs a shovel leaning against the storm cellar door.

Jean and Steve, clothes in disarray, quickly separate.

Oh my God...                         Ho, fuck!

Johnna approaches Steve menacingly.

Johnna SWINGS the shovel, barely misses Steve's nose.

Bedroom lights above SNAP ON.

She swings again, HARD. The shovel SMACKS into the arm he

puts up to block her smashing his head with the spade.

He holds his arm in pain. She wades in with a strong swing

and CONNECTS with his back. He goes down. Johnna stands

above him, arm cocked, watching for him to try and get up.

He doesn't. Karen rushes out, sees Steve on the floor.

He groans, tries to sit up.    Bill and Barbara run in.

Who was?   Are you alright?       Do I need to call a doctor?

Yeah, I'm fine.                   I don't know.

Messing with, what do you         What...what's that mean?

mean, messing with?

This information settles in... then Barbara attacks Steve,

who's just gotten to his feet. Karen gets between them.

Bill grabs Barbara from behind, trying to pull her away.

Mom, stop it!                        Settle down --!

Are you out of your goddamn          Barbara, just back off!

mind?

Karen manages to get Steve up the porch steps and into the

house. Barbara, Bill, Jean, and Johnna remain.

That's not the end of the         That's not the end of the

story.                            story.

What have I told you about        Then Johnna just chose to

smoking that shit?! What did      attack him with a shovel?

I say?

Barbara SLAPS Jean; Jean bursts into tears.

Jean tries to head into the house.       Bill grabs her.

Jean--                            Let me go!

Jean pulls free, runs off.    Bill gets in Barbara's face.

Bill exits, pursuing Jean.       Barbara and Johnna are left

standing there, then:

WE FOLLOW Barb into the kitchen and up the stairs to --

Karen is pulling on a sweatshirt, grabbing their clothes,

stuffing them into a suitcase.

Karen pushes past Barb, rolling her suitcase behind her.

Karen bursts through the screen door, rushes down the steps

to Steve's waiting Ferrari, it's lights already on, engine

running. Throws her suitcase in the back.

Barb steps out onto the porch as it reverses, SLAMS into gear

and accelerates down the drive, spewing gravel as it goes.

Bill comes out, watches it disappear with Barbara.      Then:

But Barb's still focused on the distant Ferrari.

He starts back inside.

Bill struggles... seems he might have more to say, but then:

Bill goes.    She watches him leave.   Fights back tears.

A blistering hot late August day. The Weston house sits in

bucolic, heat-weary silence. The driveway no longer crowded

with cars. Barb stands nearly where she did the night

before, in her sweats and robe. Watching yet another car go.

Their rental, Bill behind the wheel, backing up. Jean in the

seat beside him. Jean stares blankly at her mother, as she

rolls past. Bill never looks back.

The rental heads down the drive, passing Ivy's Honda

arriving. Bill slows for a moment to let Ivy pass. Then

continues on it's way back to Tulsa and the airport.

Ivy pulls in next to Bev's big Lincoln. Climbs out.     Walks

to her sister, looks back to the rental leaving.

Barbara doesn't answer, just stands there.

Barb turns, heads for the house, Ivy follows --

Barbara heads up the porch steps and into --

They find Johnna cooking in the kitchen.

They head into the dining room, find Violet smoking, working

on her jigsaw puzzle.

Johnna enters from the kitchen.

Johnna reenters with plates, then goes.

Ivy stands, hurls her plate of food, smashes it.

Barbara takes a vase from the sideboard, smashes it.

Violet throws her plate, smashes it.

Ivy gets in Barbara's face.

Barbara relents.      Ivy will finally get to say the words.

Freeze.   Silence.

Ivy looks from Violet to Barbara... suddenly lurches away

from the table, knocking over her chair.

Ivy flees from the dining room, pursued by Barbara --

Ivy runs from the house.

Ivy rushes to her car, still followed by Barbara.

Ivy gets in the car, starts it, revs the engine.    Barbara

tries to open the car door.

Barbara pounds on the car window.

The car window slides down.

Ivy floors the car, roars out of the driveway, leaving Barb

standing there. After a moment, Barb turns, stares up at the

house, angry, resolute. Starts back inside.

Finds Violet still at the table, lighting a cigarette.

Barbara doesn't respond, keeps her distance.

Violet is growing agitated with the interrogation.

Barbara stares at her mother for a long moment.       Then --

No response.

Barbara looks off, quietly:

Barbara is reeling, trying to comprehend.

Violet YELLS up to the empty house.

Barbara feels sick, the floor giving away beneath her.       She

takes a moment. Then:

She goes to her mother, kisses her. Turns, heads into the

hall, grabs her purse and Bev's keys from the dish.

Violet only slowly realizes Barbara's gone.

Hears the sound of the screen door opening and SLAPPING shut.

Violet follows her into the hall, stops at the screen door.

Barb doesn't turn around, keeps moving.         Quietly:

Sees Barb heading across the yard for Beverly's pick-up.

Watches Barbara climb into the truck, back slowly out, go.

Barbara drives off. The driveway now empty again. Violet

alone outside on the walkway. She turns back to the house,

yelling, moving from empty room to empty room.

Silence.   The dining room, the kitchen.

And into the living room, Bev's study.

She stumbles to the stereo, puts on her Clapton... stares at

the spinning album...

She reels to the stairs, crawling up --

Barbara is nearly catatonic as she drives, the house receding

in the rear window behind her.

A few large rain drops splatter her windshield, the rumble of

distant thunder, lightning and towering, ominous clouds in

the distance.

Violet climbs the staircase on all fours.

Johnna sets down her TS Elliot, goes to Violet, holds

Violet's head, smooths her hair, rocks her. Quietly --

Johnna quietly sings to Violet.

"This is the way the world        --and then you're gone, and

ends..."                          then you're gone --

ON Barbara as she drives --

We stay on Barb as she slowly pulls herself back together.

Brushes tears from her cheeks. Laughs darkly. Notices her

hands are shaking from the adrenaline.

Slows, pulls the pick-up to the side of the road at the top

of a small rise. Climbs out, stares out over the miles of

prairie. The wind gently ruffles her clothing, her hair.

CLOSE ON her as she settles into exhausted relief, unsure of

what comes next, but finally on her way as we --

