L'avventura (The Adventure)

script by

Michelangelo Antonioni

Elio Bartolini

Tonino Guerra

translated by

Louis Brigante

It is the afternoon of a summer's day. Anna, a twenty-five-year-old brunette,

comes out from the entrance of a stately building and walks along a pathway

that leads up to a dirt road. She is in a great hurry and becomes a little

annoyed and surprised at seeing her father, a meticulously dressed and

elderly gentleman, standing near the curb busily talking to his chauffeur in

front of a black British car.

There is a moment of silence during which Anna's father deliberately ignores

her presence. She stares at him intently, trying to determine his mood and

wondering how she is going to tell him what she has to say before she leaves.

Finally, he turns around and faces her.

Anna is barely able to control her temper, but realizing that the discussion

is about to take the usual sarcastic turn, she immediately checks herself.

Her father fixes her with a long ironic look. Conscious of his daughter's

haste, he is apparently trying his best to detain her.

There is another moment of silence. Meanwhile, a car has pulled up on the

other side of the road. It is Claudia, a twenty-four-year-old blonde and a

friend of Anna's. Both she and the driver get out of the car and remain

discreetly in the background, waiting for the conversation to end. Anna's

father resumes speaking, after a cursory nod to Claudia who, in turn,

responds with a polite but half-hearted smile.

Anna glares at him furiously but still manages to restrain herself.

She kisses him on the cheek but the father remains unmoved. It is obvious

that he still has something else he wants to say to her. In fact, after

gazing upon his daughter with a certain amount of pity, he finally does say

it.

Anna has a difficult time restraining herself but manages somehow to keep

calm as she answers.

He now returns the kiss his daughter had given him a short while ago. Then,

without once turning around, he heads slowly towards the entrance of the

house, as Claudia comes into the foreground.

Anna, still very tense and upset over the scene with her father, gets into

the car. Claudia follows after her, as the driver puts her suitcase into the

trunk.

Anna doesn't answer. She merely pats Claudia's hand. The car takes off, as

Anna's maid, standing to one side of the road, waves a warm goodbye. Claudia

responds by waving back, but Anna doesn't even look around. Instead, she

turns to the driver and says:

The car speeds ahead along the dusty road, across a verdant strip of land,

until it reaches the archway of a stone-wall fence around which it turns and

disappears. It is seen again emerging from behind a cement wall and continues

racing swiftly onward over a road that runs between two high walls. There is

no sign of traffic. Only silence. It is an ancient road, and a very elegant

one. Claudia looks at it admiringly. Anna continues to remain wrapped up

within herself. The car now makes another turn, heading into a small, narrow

road flanked on each side by gardens of patrician villas. Suddenly, it

emerges on a drab, modern street amid the kind of traffic typical of any

modern town.

Finally the car enters the street where Sandro lives and pulls up in front of

a small but very fashionable palazzo. Anna and Claudia get out. And as the

driver starts to remove the suitcases from the trunk, Claudia turns to Anna

and says:

Anna starts to walk across the street and is about to enter a building.

Surprised, Claudia calls out to her:

All of a sudden, Anna stops. She is pensive, almost sullen.

Claudia stops, smiles, and jokingly tries to laugh it off.

Anna pays no heed to Claudia's teasing comments but follows her own original

line of thought.

Claudia notices Sandro leaning out of the window from his apartment on the

first floor of the building. He is looking at them attentively. He is a young

man of thirty-five. His shirt is unbuttoned and the tie around his neck is

unknotted. Realizing that he has been spotted, he smiles and waves a cheerful

hello.

As if seized by a sudden powerful impulse, Anna heads straight towards the of

the building. Claudia looks at her with astonishment, and watches her

disappear into the doorway. Then she looks up again at the window. But Sandro

is no longer there.

***

Sandro's apartment is extremely small. Although it contains many books, it

has the atmosphere of a place that is very seldom lived in. Sandro has just

finished knotting his tie. He closes his suitcase and heads toward the door.

He turns back, however, to pick up a towel fallen from the bed. He takes the

towel into the bathroom. Then he goes to the door again, opens it, and sees

Anna. She appears a little anxious. Without giving Sandro a chance to say a

word, she enters the apartment, closing the door behind her. Sandro puts down

his suitcase and is about to embrace her, but Anna steps aside and begins

staring at him with an intense look upon her face. Taking him all in with her

eyes, she examines his suit, his hands, his legs, his shoes. Then her gaze

moves back up to his face which she proceeds to scrutinize. Sandro is unable

to understand her behavior, so he shrugs and jokingly exclaims:

He snaps himself into profile, then turns, slowly, in the manner of a store

window mannequin. Anna continues to stare at him. This time she peers

directly into his eyes. Sandro is no longer amused.

Finally, Anna puts an end to her staring, and taking Sandro by the hand she

leads him around the room. She stops in front of a mirror and looks at

herself. The expression on her face becomes taut, determined. She starts

unbuttoning her dress as she continues looking at herself in the mirror.

Sandro comes up close to her shoulders, caresses her hair, and whispers

softly into her ear.

Anna turns around and presses herself up against him with such a violent

passion that Sandro is somewhat dismayed. But only for an instant. Soon they

are feverishly kissing each other, and it is almost with a sense of sheer

animal pleasure that Sandro abandons himself.

***

Meanwhile, left alone, Claudia is pacing back and forth outside in front of

the building. She is bored and obviously tired of waiting. Then, as she is

about to cross over to the other side of the street, she sees Sandro and Anna

coming out of the doorway. The expression on Anna's face hasn't changed --

she appears sad and gloomy. But Claudia doesn't take note of it; she is too

busy fuming over Anna's lack of consideration, eager to let them both

understand that she is sick and tired of waiting around.

As Sandro opens the window of the car, which is pointed towards Milan, he

says to Claudia:

Meanwhile, the driver has taken Anna's suitcase out of the black car and puts

it into Sandro's. Claudia picks up her own suitcase and is about to do the

same but Sandro intervenes and takes it from her.

While this exchange was going on, Anna has already climbed into Sandro's car.

Sandro follows and takes his place at the wheel; Claudia gets in alongside

him. The car takes off at high speed.

***

Heading south along a state highway, Sandro's car is traveling at high speed

over a straight open road. It is twilight and as the evening shadows begin to

fall, the surrounding countryside is bathed in an aura of mystery.

Inside the car Anna, Claudia and Sandro sit in complete silence. Anna is

deeply absorbed in her own thoughts. Claudia is looking out of the window,

enthralled by the dark beauty of the landscape. Another car draws up

alongside of Sandro's and is about to pass him. But Sandro steps on the

accelerator and pulls ahead with a tremendous burst of speed. The other car

lags behind and then turns off at a crossroad. However, Sandro makes no

attempt to slow down. In fact, spurred on by what has now become a definitely

hostile atmosphere, he drives even faster.

As Sandro suddenly switches on the headlights, the violent glare that

polarizes the roadside cuts off Claudia's view. She turns to Sandro with a

look of disappointment

To please her, Sandro turns the headlights off and once again the countryside

is covered by a veil of thick but romantic shadows.

Now Claudia again peers out at the landscape -- but only for an instant.

Sandro abruptly turns the headlights on again, revealing a sharp curve in the

road up ahead, only about a hundred yards away. He quickly shifts into lower

gear, and the car swerves slightly. The sudden shift from fourth to third

gear causes the motor to emit a sound that resembles a cry. The car races

swiftly towards the curve, getting closer and closer. But at such high speed

it appears impossible the car will be able to make the turn. Further up

ahead, where the curve fades, there is a stone wall that runs along the side

of the road. At this point, even Anna is attentive, her eyes wide open. Both

she and Claudia are petrified and terror-stricken as the curve and the wall

loom closer and closer. Fifty yards, forty, ten. All of a sudden, the

headlights illuminate a large gap in the wall about three or four yards away,

just on the other side of a small ditch that separates the road from the wall

itself. There seems to be no other choice. With a frightening leap -- and

going well over fifty miles an hour -- the car barely makes it over the ditch

and right through the opening in the wall. The car comes to a sudden halt,

but skids along on the muddy ground of an empty lot until it finally stops

near the door of a small farmhouse in front of an old man. He is seated on a

bench and has been observing the entire scene without budging an inch.

There is a brief pause -- silence. Then Sandro comes out of the car followed

by Claudia and Anna. Claudia is visibly shaken. She leans up against the

building for support, as though in search of something solid and dependable.

She is also unnerved by the feeling that she is responsible for what has just

happened.

But instead of reproaching her, Sandro turns to the old man and excuses

himself for having broken into his property. Imperturbably, the old man looks

up at him and says:

Even before he has a chance to be surprised at the old man's remark, Sandro

becomes aware that Anna is laughing. It is not the hysterical laugh that

normally might be expected after such a close call. It is, instead a pure and

simple laugh, almost a happy one, and leaves both Sandro and Claudia plainly

baffled.

Anna looks at them as she continues to laugh.

***

On a calm sea, amid the Aeolian Isles, just off the coast of Sicily, a motor

yacht is moving quietly and smoothly over the water. It is heading directly

towards a small island that appears like a huge rock jutting up from the sea,

sharply silhouetted against the sky, about a hundred yards away. A few sea

gulls are lazily wheeling around up above.

Aboard the yacht, a sailor is at the helm, peacefully smoking his pipe, while

another peers out over the water as he munches on a sandwich. It is almost

noon.

Raimondo, a deeply bronzed young man in his thirties, is lying outstretched

in the sun on top of the cabin. Towards the prow, lying flat on her stomach

upon a small rubber mat, is Claudia. Her arms are dangling over the side of

the boat, catching the cool, fine spray of water splashing gently against the

prow. Corrado comes out of the cabin. He sits down on a bench near the stern

after placing a cushion under himself so as not to soil his suit, which is

white and of an elegance that is slightly out of style. Corrado has a

sensitive face, with a look that is both sharp and intelligent. In age, he is

closer to his fifties than his forties. Following directly behind him is

Giulia, one of those impossible women who are so terribly sweet and coy and

yet so demanding of attention. The pose she strikes as she looks out over the

water, and the saccharine tone of voice in which she speaks, are precisely

characteristic of her nature.

Anna also appears on deck, looks around and, noticing Claudia, goes over and

lies down beside her. Claudia rolls over on her back to embrace all that

wonderful sun but her outstretched arm comes in contact with Anna, who smiles

and joins her in a friendly embrace.

Their conversation is suddenly interrupted by Sandro's voice shouting

"Hello." He comes up to them and gives Anna a warm hug, then nods hello to

Claudia. He is in a jaunty mood. Stretching himself out on the deck, he opens

a picture magazine he had brought with him and starts to read. But Anna

places her hand over the page he is looking at and says to him:

Sandro closes the magazine and throws it overboard. The pages come apart in

the water. Some of them are quickly swept under by the waves, while others

float and slowly drift away: white specks upon which a few sea gulls converge

emitting their guttural cries.

As Sandro stretches himself out in the sun, Anna looks upon him with

tenderness. She is about to embrace him but stops midway, and then finally

changes her mind. Instead, she proceeds to stare at him with a profoundly

troubled expression. Then, momentarily dismissing her anxiety, she cuddles up

close to him in an effort to provoke his affection. Sandro responds, but only

with a fleeting kiss. Seeing them together like this, Claudia gets up and

moves away to the far side of the prow. Sandro and Anna remain as they are

until they are suddenly enveloped by a dark shadow. Sandro opens his eyes and

sits up. Anna does the same. The rocky island is now quite close, almost

directly upon them. It is larger than it previously appeared and casts a

long, dark shadow over the yacht. The water beneath the overhanging cliffs is

extremely clear and almost motionless. Sandro rises to his feet and shouts

out to everybody aboard.

The yacht proceeds to encircle the island. Up ahead, another island comes

into view. It is smaller, brighter, and less foreboding. Corrado gets up and

comes over to the prow to join Sandro, Anna and Claudia. He is immediately

followed by Giulia, who peers intently at the landscape.

Giulia looks at him resentfully and abashed. Claudia points to an island

which they have just passed.

Corrado then points to an even smaller island which they are now approaching.

Anna, who had been absorbed all the while in contemplating the landscape,

though still preoccupied with certain personal thoughts of her own, suddenly

unfastens her thin dress. Stripping down to her bathing suit, she turns to

the group and exclaims with a note of exasperation:

She then goes to the edge of the boat, which has slowed down somewhat, and

before Sandro has a chance to call out to her, she dives into the water.

Once in the water, Anna starts swimming towards the island. The sailor at the

helm slows the boat even more so as to keep it within Anna's range. Raimondo,

meanwhile, has gotten his skin-diving equipment ready; around his waist he is

tightening a belt to which a long knife is attached. The yacht continues to

slow down. Sandro now dives into the water and starts swimming towards Anna.

Claudia and Giulia are removing their clothes and they too get ready to go

into the water. But Claudia is afraid to dive in while the boat is still in

motion, so she turns to the sailor and shouts:

The motor is turned off and the yacht soon comes to a halt. A sailor places a

ladder over the side of the boat. Claudia goes down the ladder, easing

herself into the water. She moves away from the side of the yacht by swimming

backwards. Giulia follows her down the ladder but stops on the last rung.

Sandro looks up and, pointing to the rocks at the highest part of the island,

answers her.

From inside the cabin, a feminine voice is heard shouting:

Solicitously, Raimondo goes over to the door of the cabin, from which

Patrizia emerges wrapped in a filmy nightgown. She is a woman of great

elegance, somewhere in her thirties.

Then, holding her by the hand, Raimondo leads her towards the prow, where

Corrado greets her and likewise kisses her hand.

She turns around to look at Raimondo and becomes somewhat startled to see him

all rigged out in his diving equipment, complete with mask, spear-gun, etc.

He dives in. As soon as he hits the water, he starts shivering and exclaims:

Then, lowering the mask over his face, he begins to submerge. On deck,

Patrizia peers out over the sea and covering her eyes to shade them from the

sun, remarks:

***

Out on the water, Sandro and Anna are almost at a standstill, keeping

themselves afloat with only the slightest movement of their arms. Sandro is

laughing and joking as though all this purely physical enjoyment of sun and

water has freed him of all other cares. Anna tries to emulate him but is not

entirely successful. Every now and then, her face becomes clouded with that

same worried expression.

He is lying on his back in the water, with his eyes closed, his face to the

sun, cradled in the gentle movement of the waves. Anna looks at him, then

after a moment of silence, she says:

Instead of answering him, Anna starts swimming rapidly out to sea. Sandro

tries to hold her back but because she swims much faster, he gives up and

finds himself alongside of Giulia.

Giulia is not much of a swimmer; she bobs up and down in the water, doing a

crawl, and it seems she is always on the verge of going under. Still, she

manages to stay afloat, enjoying herself like a little child. Slightly off to

one side, Raimondo is exploring the depths, with his spear-gun in hand, ready

to shoot. He seems to be chasing a fish that is apparently trying to elude

him. But the water is so clear that it would be difficult even for a fish to

hide. In fact, only a moment later, Raimondo takes aim with his spear-gun,

pulls the trigger and the little harpoon shoots out. Then, with a great

splash, he swims off in hasty pursuit of the fish. A rubber raft, piloted by

one of the crew and bearing Corrado ashore, comes passing through the

swimming area. The sailor is carrying on a conversation with Corrado.

The raft passes alongside of Sandro, and Corrado calls out to him:

The raft continues on its way towards shore. A little distance away, Claudia

is floating on her back, basking in the sun, with her eyes closed -- almost

motionless. Her arms are outstretched and only the very slightest movement of

her fingers in the water is sufficient to keep her afloat. Suddenly, her hand

comes in contact with something viscous... which seems to be a fish that has

shot up to the surface of the water. At first, Claudia merely withdraws her

hand without bothering to see what it is, but since it persists in following

her, she opens her eyes and notices something moving right next to her.

Frightened, she lets out a tiny yelp. At that very moment, directly behind

the fish, Raimondo's rubber fins appear above the water, and she realizes

that it is Raimondo himself. He removes his mask and breaks out into a hearty

laugh as Claudia playfully splashes some water into his face.

Observing them from a few yards away is Anna. Having returned from her swim

out in the open sea, she was about to join Claudia. But Claudia, involved now

in chasing after Raimondo, doesn't notice her.

Meanwhile, Raimondo, outdistancing Claudia, finds himself alongside of

Sandro.

Claudia, having given up trying to catch Raimondo, swims up alongside of

Giulia, who is busy observing Corrado disembark on a little strip of beach

that stands out distinctly white against the dark rocks. Claudia is in a

playful mood. She dives underwater, grabs hold of Giulia's leg, comes up, and

then dives under once again. Giulia, caught up in the spirit of all this

playfulness, drops her concern with Corrado and joins in with the fun and

merriment.

Suddenly there is a loud shriek, then Anna's voice is heard screaming:

They all turn around to look at her. Anna is swimming furiously towards the

boat. Then, immediately, the booming voice of the sailor aboard the yacht

sounds out:

But Sandro ignores the warning and starts swimming out towards Anna like a

demon. Raimondo, who was about to climb aboard the yacht, grasps his

spear-gun firmly in his hand, hurls himself back into the water, and also

starts to swim in Anna's direction. Claudia is stricken with fear, and holds

on tight to Giulia. Anna has stopped swimming and is cautiously looking

around to see if anything comes up out of the water. Then, she looks up and

seeing Sandro and Raimondo approaching, she shouts:

They both stop. Then, Raimondo hurriedly dons his mask and disappears under

water while Sandro again starts swimming out towards Anna. Sandro comes up

alongside her.

But Anna doesn't say a word. Instead, they both swim silently back to the

yacht, where Claudia and Giulia are already climbing aboard. Patrizia comes

out of the cabin to see what is happening.

They all lean over the side of the boat, looking down into the water,

expecting the shark at any moment to come into view. But the water remains

unruffled, the seaweed below is clearly visible, waving like so many fans.

Even the rocks at the bottom can be seen with all sorts of small-gilled fish

darting about. A mysterious, fascinating world and yet, because of what

happened, one that arouses fear. Everyone aboard is silent. Until Anna and

Sandro, followed by Raimondo, finally arrive and climb aboard. Sandro

immediately takes Anna to her cabin, and the others follow, making various

comments.

Anna doesn't answer but continues on ahead amid the overlapping remarks.

***

Inside the cabin, which is partitioned into separate rooms, the general

layout is neat and orderly, with a number of prints decorating the walls.

Sandro and Anna, followed by Claudia, enter from the outside deck and cross

over into Anna's room. It is extremely small, with two cots on one side and a

long curtain that partially conceals a bureau from which several dresses are

seen hanging.

Anna is soaking wet in her bathing suit and her hair is all knotted into

clusters that hang down over her face. Without bothering to dry herself, she

crouches down on the cot and, assisted by Claudia, wraps a blanket around her

body. Sandro and Claudia look at her with great concern. A member of the crew

enters carrying a tray on which there is a half-filled glass of liquor, which

Sandro takes and offers to Anna.

Anna positively refuses it, and the sailor leaves as Sandro sets the glass

down on a shelf. Looking up at both Sandro and Claudia, Anna appears pleased

with their solicitude.

A pause and then an instant later, she begins shivering under the blanket.

Leaving Anna and Claudia alone on their own, Sandro turns and goes outside

the cabin where the others are still congregated, busy chattering. Among the

remarks exchanged, one that is distinctly heard is Patrizia's.

As soon as Sandro closes the door to the cabin, Anna is suddenly and

completely changed. She gets up from the cot, goes over to the curtain and

draws it aside, revealing an array of feminine attire. Wondering which dress

to choose, she finally selects two and tosses them on the cot.

As Anna begins to dry herself with a large bath towel, Claudia slips on the

dress and looks at herself in the mirror with a coquettish expression on her

face.

Anna is removing her bathing suit as she continues talking to Claudia with a

tone and manner that reveal a sense of excitement mixed with one of amusement.

Claudia looks at her as though dumbfounded, as though she had never known her

before. She is obviously piqued and angry, but more with herself than with

Anna.

Anna is all dressed and ready. She opens the door and steps outside, as

Claudia follows behind.

***

Out on the deck, Sandro, Patrizia, Raimondo and Giulia are looking over the

side of the boat, watching the sailor as he approaches the yacht with a

rubberized raft.  Giulia, with her usual air of affectation, looks down at

the water splashing up against the raft and asks the sailor:

Anna appears at the door of the cabin and Sandro rushes over to meet her, a

little surprised to find her looking so cheerful, as though the incident that

had just taken place were completely forgotten.

Anna goes over to the edge of the boat and stands at the head of the little

stairway leading down to the water.

As she starts to go down the steps, Sandro quickly comes over to her.

But Anna has already stepped aboard the raft, and Sandro follows her. Giulia

has her eyes fixed on the beach where Corrado in his white suit is waiting

for them. Her desire to join him is greater than her fear of the shark, so

she looks down at the sailor and asks:

Patrizia, instead, turns around and heads back to the cabin. And Raimondo

follows her shortly after. Giulia descends into the raft and, as it moves

away from the boat with a slight pitch, she lets out a few hysterical shrieks.

Anna laughs and then shouts out to Claudia:

Claudia nods assent, and remains there looking over the side and watching the

water splash against the boat. Suddenly, she looks up at the sky and realizes

that the sun has disappeared. Actually, it is hidden behind a cloud, and over

on the horizon a group of other clouds have accumulated.

The sailor left aboard the yacht is now signaling the other sailor on the

raft who, having deposited Sandro, Anna and Giulia on the beach, is returning

to pick up Claudia. He sounds the depths with his oar and then shouts up:

The sailor aboard the yacht goes over to Claudia and says:

Then he disappears inside and soon the yacht starts moving towards the shore.

Claudia peers out over the landscape; the islands are sharply silhouetted

against the sea and sky, the volcano on Stromboli smokes feebly, and in the

distance a ship passes by. Claudia is plainly enchanted by the view. Then she

collects her thoughts and slowly heads towards the cabin.

***

Patrizia, seated at a small table inside the cabin, is busy working on a

complicated jigsaw puzzle, which, once completed, is supposed to represent a

typically classical scene. One by one, she selects the various pieces of

cardboard and inserts them in their rightful places. Simultaneously, she is

munching on some crackers spread with jam, and a piece of cold fruit. Beside

her is Raimondo.  He is staring at Patrizia with such an intense expression

that she becomes thoroughly annoyed and says to him, as she continues working

at her puzzle:

Coming down the steps that lead into the cabin, Claudia overhears the end of

the conversation, and decides to withdraw. But Patrizia sees her and calls

her back.

Claudia enters. Raimondo continues to stare at Patrizia, particularly at her

legs. Patrizia becomes aware that Raimondo is staring at her, and with a

condescending gesture, she lifts her skirt a little higher to make him see

better.

Raimondo nods yes. Claudia is amused by their behavior but also a little

surprised.

Patrizia calmly resumes her game and Raimondo again begins to stare at her.

This time, at her breasts. And again Patrizia becomes conscious of the fact

that he is staring at her. She assumes a bored attitude and looks up at the

ceiling in a gesture of quiet forbearance. Raimondo reaches out with his hand

and gently caresses Patrizia's breast. Claudia looks on in amazement.

Raimondo withdraws his hand.

Patrizia laughs at Raimondo's remark and looks at him sympathetically. Then

she turns to Claudia.

Raimondo has such a disgruntled look on his face that Patrizia laughs.

Claudia leaves the cabin and goes up to the deck. Patrizia returns to her

game, and Raimondo continues to stare at her.

***

Along a narrow strip of beach on the island of Lisca Bianca, Sandro, Anna,

Corrado and Giulia are waiting for Claudia to come ashore. There are some

patches of vegetation growing here and there, but by and large the island is

one huge rock with rugged cliffs which descend perpendicularly to the water.

Jutting promontories give the place a sense of raw, primitive beauty. Seeing

Anna and Sandro climbing a short distance up along the rocks to find a

comfortable place where they can lie down and stretch themselves, Corrado

remarks:

The yacht finally has arrived and the gangplank is laid out between the boat

and the shore. Claudia descends and as she wades ashore she stops, bends over

to dip her hand in the water, and with a tone of voice resembling that of a

mother speaking to its newborn child, she pretends she is speaking with

someone or something in the water.

They all turn around to look at her, wondering to whom or what she is

referring.

They all break out into a laugh, and Claudia continues her comic bit as she

playfully pretends to lose her balance on the slippery pebbles along the

shore. Corrado looks at her somewhat surprised, as though up until now he had

never seen her comport herself with such a lively sense of humor and wit.

Out of the entire group, Claudia is perhaps the only one who really has the

desire to explore, to see, and to generally take advantage of whatever the

cruise has to offer.

Though Claudia's suggestion is heard by all, none of them make a move.

Relaxing so comfortably in the sun as they are, it seems the last thing they

would want to do is to climb up the rocky slopes. So Claudia starts to go up

on her own, following Corrado who is already under way. But Giulia

immediately comes up to him and, squeezing his arm to emphasize her plea,

whispers to him:

Giulia's plea is expressed with such a pitiful sense of humility that Claudia

is immediately taken aback, although she does not fully understand its

motive.

Disappointed and rather irritated, Corrado turns back, while Claudia looks

around for a place on the rocks where she can comfortably set herself down.

Giulia, in turn, approaches Corrado.

Sandro suddenly grabs Anna around the waist and pulls her to him. His action

is so unexpected that even Anna is astonished. But Giulia's voice is heard

again.

Breaking the nervous tension that has spread itself throughout the group, a

seaman appears with a small basket of frozen peaches brought from the yacht.

Claudia runs to the basket, picks up a peach and quickly bites into it.

Claudia takes another peach from the basket and gives it to Corrado.

***

Anna and Sandro have left the group and are ensconced further up among the

rocks, on a grassy slope overlooking the beach.

She turns and walks away in a rage. Sandro breathes a deep sigh, as though

the scene had exhausted him, then stretches himself on the ground, his face

turned skyward, his eyes shut tight.

***

The sky over the island of Lisca Bianca is completely filled with clouds. It

is early afternoon, the atmosphere has darkened, and occasional sounds of

thunder are heard in the distance.

Sandro is asleep with his arms folded under his head. Further below, Claudia,

Corrado and Giulia are also taking a nap. Gradually, however, with the sound

of thunder, they become aroused.

Corrado rises and looks around lazily, listening to what appears to be the

sound of a motor boat and which seems to be coming from the other side of the

island. Claudia, spotting a sailor approaching, also rises.

Claudia turns around, looks up, and sees Sandro asleep by himself.

***

Out on the yacht, Patrizia is completing her puzzle. Only a few pieces are

missing but the area to be filled in is a very difficult one. Raimondo, who

has grown impatient over Patrizia's long and tedious concentration, exclaims:

Claudia's voice is heard, calling out from the shore.

Patrizia raises her eyes and gives a quick, casual glance at the porthole.

Raimondo immediately takes the hint that she would like him to get up and see

what Claudia wants. So he goes out to the deck where he sees Claudia calling

from the shore.

He goes over to the cabin, and looking through the portholes, calls out

Anna's name. But there is no answer, so he returns to the side of the boat

and shouts back.

***

Meanwhile, on the beach, Sandro is also looking for Anna, disturbed and

amazed that she is not in sight.

Down at the shore, Giulia is getting ready to step on the gangplank and go

aboard the yacht but, anxious about Anna's whereabouts, she changes her mind

and turns back. Claudia, also deeply concerned, decides to remain and look

around for herself. She turns and starts climbing up towards the rock in an

opposite direction than that taken by Sandro, who has now reached the top.

The search is fruitless; there seems to be no trace of Anna. But Sandro

continues to explore the area, stopping every now and then to call out Anna's

name. Then, looking down over the slope, he notices Claudia, Giulia and

Corrado coming towards him.

None of them answer but it is clear from the worried expressions on their

faces that they too have found no trace of Anna. Still they continue the

search, each going off in different directions. Claudia, walking over land

covered with large white rocks and clumps of dry brush, spots something

moving behind one of the bushes. Anxiously, she starts to walk up closer.

Suddenly the branches begin to move and a stray lamb emerges. Surprised, but

also somewhat relaxed, she turns around and calls out to Corrado, who is

following her only a short distance away.

Corrado looks at her without answering, then stops and notices further up

ahead a jumbled pile of rocks which he feels might very well be the ruins he

had previously intended to explore. He is about to head towards them but

suddenly realizes that Giulia is following directly behind him. He quickly

changes his direction in an effort to avoid her.

Sandro comes upon a small stone hut that leans up against a high section of

rock. As he starts to approach it, another stray lamb appears, as if from

nowhere, and runs off, frightened by Sandro's approach. He tries to open the

door to the hut but finds it locked. As he looks around the area, uncertain

as to his next move, he sees Claudia and Corrado coming towards him.

Though no less concerned over Anna's disappearance than any of the others,

Corrado attempts to lighten the tension by feigning a calm and sensible

attitude. Taking note of the stone hut before him, he observes it carefully

and remarks:

Claudia comes up close to the hut and tries to peer through the tiny window

but inside it is so dark that nothing can be seen. Suddenly, she finds a

small piece of bread on the ledge of the window. She picks it up and starts

examining it. Then, realizing the bread is still fairly fresh, exclaims:

The discussion is suddenly interrupted by the arrival of one of the sailors

who has come up from the shore.

***

Aboard the yacht, which is circling the island, Sandro, Patrizia, Raimondo

and one of the sailors are peering out over the side, scrutinizing the banks

and rocky slopes in hope of finding some trace of Anna. The jagged cliffs

appear enormously tall and ominous, harboring tiny grottoes in which someone

could easily hide.

Incensed by her remark, which he considers to be absurd, Sandro moves away

from Patrizia and goes towards the stern of the boat where he notices Corrado

signaling to them from a remote section of the beach.

But he stops in the middle of the statement, and throws up his arms to

indicate that the discovery is really of little significance. So he proceeds

to climb back up along the pathway from which he descended, and the yacht

continues on its way.

Both Patrizia and Raimondo come rushing over to the stern and look towards

where Sandro is pointing at something dark and obscure afloat on the water up

ahead.

The yacht heads in the direction of the black object in the water, but as

they come up close, they realize it is nothing more than some wooden piece of

furniture. The turn has taken the boat slightly away from Lisca Bianca and

they now find themselves closer to the little island of Basiluzzo.

***

The first shadows of evening begin to fall over the island of Lisca Bianca.

The sky is now even gloomier, streaked with flashes of lightning. Rumbling

sounds of thunder are heard in the distance. The entire group is once again

reunited on the beach, and the impending storm has heightened their fears and

anxiety. They are cold, restless, and exhausted, but profoundly moved and

shaken by the reality of Anna's strange disappearance.

Giulia is about to get on her way but she stops and turns around to look for

Corrado, who notices her looking at him.

Claudia, who has remained to one side, wrapped up in her own thoughts,

doesn't make a move to leave. Sandro and Corrado look at her in surprise.

Ignoring Sandro's remark, Claudia turns and determinedly heads towards the

interior of the island. Meanwhile, Patrizia and Giulia have gone aboard the

yacht.

Corrado makes an irritated gesture signifying no, then together with Sandro

starts climbing up the rocky slope towards the stone hut. As they meet up

with Claudia midway, the first drops of rain start to fall and it is clear

that the storm is on the verge of breaking. The three of them reach the door

of the hut and Corrado tries to pull it open, but the lock resists. Then

Sandro comes to his aid, and placing their shoulders up against the wooden

door, they finally manage to force it open.

***

Inside the hut it is pitch black. Sandro strikes a match and finds a kerosene

lamp on a nearby table. He lights it and the room is suddenly illuminated,

revealing a miserable interior with a few broken chairs, several empty boxes,

a shovel and a few other utensils. Over to one side is a small pile of straw

suggesting a makeshift bed.

Ignoring the question, Sandro begins pacing back and forth across the room.

The silence is broken only by the sound of the rain outside which is now

coming down harder and harder. Suddenly, footsteps are heard approaching the

hut. Sandro, Claudia and Corrado quickly turn around and face the door, their

faces clearly revealing the expectation that it might be Anna. Finally the

door begins to open and an old man appears, carrying a sack in his hand.

Claudia suddenly jumps up and runs out of the hut and into the dark, calling

out desperately.

But her cries are lost in the sound of the storm. Drenched by the rain, her

shoes full of mud, her dress soaked, she stops, as Corrado, who had followed

after her, grabs hold of her arm and leads her back to the hut.

***

It is early morning inside the hut, and the flame of the kerosene lamp has

dwindled down to a tiny, flickering light. Claudia awakens with a bewildered

look upon her face, wondering where she is and how she comes to be there. She

notices Corrado dozing on an empty box in a corner of the room, then

realizing that Sandro and the old man are no longer there, she gets up and

goes out the door.

Outside, everything is covered by a thick haze, which is gradually beginning

to lift. Sandro, who is standing a short distance away from the hut, hears

Claudia approaching and turns around to greet her.

There is a pause, then suddenly they both hear the sound of a motor growing

louder and louder. They look out over the shore but the haze is so heavy that

it is impossible for them to determine the source. Then, seeing the old man

coming up the path, Sandro impulsively runs towards him and seizes him by the

collar.

Sandro is visibly deflated by the old man's casualness, and he decides to

abandon his questioning. He turns away from him and looks up to see Claudia

walking slowly towards the top of the cliffs, directly behind the hut where

the night before the old man had said Anna might have fallen. She looks down

over the side and quickly withdraws, almost in fear of being sucked down into

the swirling waters below. She turns away and starts walking towards the

interior part of the island. In the rocky hollows around her, she notices

small accumulations of yesterday's rain and, scooping up some of the water

from one of these rocks, she rinses her face. As she gets up again, Sandro is

there, standing directly before her. Claudia is almost startled. They

continue to gaze at one another in silence. Then Claudia abruptly turns away

and heads towards a higher point of land. A moment later, Sandro joins her

again and once more they find themselves staring into each other's eyes,

almost embarrassed by their own behavior, yet unable to control it.

The wailing siren of a police boat resounds through the air like a shrill

lament. Only then do Sandro and Claudia detach themselves from their trance-

like state, from the sudden compulsion of being drawn towards each other.

Through the haze, they notice a landing taking place down at the shore.

Realizing it is their friends returning with the police, they both start

descending the slope to greet them.

Stepping ashore are Patrizia, Giulia and Raimondo, followed by a Marshal of

the carabinieri and two police agents. As Sandro and Claudia come rushing

down over the rocks, Claudia suddenly stops and lags behind so as not to

arrive on the beach simultaneously with Sandro.

Meanwhile, Corrado has already gone down to the shore and as he goes out to

meet them, Patrizia, Giulia and Raimondo anxiously look to him as though

expecting some good news. But Corrado remains silent, then throws out his

arms in a gesture of despair.

The Marshal starts climbing up towards the interior of the island, with

Sandro following behind. As Claudia sees them coming in her direction, she

moves away to a lower section of the island to avoid coming in contact with

Sandro. Peering over a precipice, she sees the frogmen below, and watches

them slide into the clear water like two enormous fish.

Sandro and the Marshal have arrived on the edge of the same precipice, where

two men are lowering a rope ladder into the depths. Moving up further to

watch the operations, Sandro becomes aware of Claudia standing alone just a

short distance away. He heads towards her but she tries to avoid looking at

him. Sandro, however, is unable to take his eyes from her and continues

walking in her direction. But seeing Patrizia and Raimondo approaching, he

suddenly stops. A small stone, accidentally loosened from the ground, rolls

along the path and comes to a halt directly in front of Claudia, almost like

a message. She picks it up, looks at it, then throws it away. Sandro moves

away and heads back to the edge of the precipice.

Patrizia and Raimondo join Claudia. Raimondo, who is carrying a box of

crackers in his hand, offers them to both Claudia and Patrizia.

Meanwhile, Sandro has arrived at the edge of the precipice where he finds

Giulia and Corrado. They are looking down at one of the carabinieri who is

dangling from a long rope over the side of the rock, exploring the crevasses

where a body might have fallen from the precipice above. The Marshal leans

over to see if anything has been discovered.

The Marshal turns around in disgust and looks at Corrado who is frankly sick

and tired of the whole operation.

All of a sudden, Claudia breaks out into tears. Patrizia doesn't say a word.

She just lets Claudia cry, knowing it will do her good. Sandro comes over and

as soon as Claudia sees him there, she stops crying, and avoids looking up at

him.

He turns and starts heading down towards the beach.

One of the frogmen emerges with an ancient vase in his hand, evidently found

in the depths below. Raimondo, who has just arrived with a thermos of hot

coffee, puts it down and goes over to the frogman to fetch the vase.

Raimondo takes the vase and shows it to Patrizia and Claudia. It is an

extremely beautiful amphora, in terra cotta, with a figured design around it.

Patrizia and Claudia momentarily drop their thoughts to examine it. Then

Corrado, who had observed the scene, comes over, followed immediately by

Giulia.

Corrado smiles, then comes closer to examine it. Claudia also kneels down to

look at it. A moment later she feels a presence at her side, and even without

turning around she knows it is Sandro. Taking advantage of the discovery that

was made, he purposely has returned to join the group in order to be near

Claudia. They both now feel between them the warmth of that contact, and for

a brief moment, succumb once again to that sudden sense of wonderment which

they already had experienced at dawn.

Claudia, stricken with dismay, immediately detaches herself from Sandro, who

replies with a certain sense of embarrassment.

***

A patrol boat is anchored off the cliff of a small island where the current

running through the surrounding waters comes to an end. Sandro is leaning

against the wall of a dilapidated building, which is constructed right on

that part of the rock where the sea close by discharges all kinds of refuse.

Four or five islanders are busy scouring through the accumulated rubbish.

They are taciturn, poorly dressed people who every now and then come to blows

over the possession of some article washed ashore by the waves. Sandro is

watching them, feeling distraught and melancholy. One of the carabinieri who

had accompanied him is walking up and down beside an elderly gentleman who is

obviously one of the local gentry.

Sandro looks at them without commenting, then turns and walks away towards

the center of the village. The houses and shops around the square are very

plain and shabby. Sandro spots a barber shop and, fingering his day-old

beard, enters for a shave.

Shortly thereafter, a clamor of voices is heard outside and Sandro comes

dashing out of the shop. Seeing the islanders fighting and arguing about

something drawn up from the sea, he runs over to find out what it is.  As he

arrives on the scene, two policemen step out of the confusion dragging a

large crate, which they carry over to the door of a nearby shack, amid the

protests of the islanders who are still arguing and shouting among

themselves.

The two policemen set the crate down and lift the lid. It is full of

cigarettes.

The islanders react violently, shouting out all sorts of epithets. But the

policemen manage to restrain them and soon the commotion is quieted down.

***

At Lisca Bianca, a helicopter is hovering above the island and preparing to

land. Waiting for it to descend are Claudia, the old man, the Marshal and

Anna's father, just arrived from the mainland.

The Marshal moves away from the old man and goes over towards Anna's father

who is watching the helicopter come down.

One of the carabinieri appears with Anna's valise which he sets down on the

ground.

The helicopter is now a few feet above the ground, and everyone steps aside

to allow it room to land. The rush of wind from the propeller sends up a

cloud of dust, and finally the helicopter touches down. The propeller stops,

the door opens, and out comes two large bloodhounds accompanied by a police

attendant. He immediately says something to the dogs in German which suddenly

creates an atmosphere of resentment among the group assembled there.

Anna's father goes to his daughter's valise, bends down, but doesn't dare to

touch it.

Claudia opens the valise and starts pulling out several dresses, a few

intimate garments, and several other items of clothing. As she continues

rummaging, she suddenly comes upon two books, Fitzgerald's Tender Is The

Night and a copy of the Bible, which she hands to Anna's father who, in turn,

examines them with great care and deliberation.

Anna's father turns around to look at the bloodhounds who are already

sniffing the air for a scent and anxious to get on with the hunt. Then he

throws a quick glance at his daughter's valise once more, and with an air of

disgust and irritation, walks off in a huff, followed by Claudia.

After they all have left the area, the attendant leads the two bloodhounds

over to Anna's valise, instructs them to pick up the scent, then takes them

up to the very top of the island, where he subsequently unties them from his

leash and sets them off.

Claudia and Anna's father arrive on the beach where Patrizia, Giulia,

Corrado, Raimondo and one of the sailors are seated on a pile of rocks.

As the dogs begin running in different directions over the island, trying to

track down the scent from Anna's valise, the entire group remains silent,

awaiting the outcome of the search. Suddenly, the bloodhounds come racing

down the slope, heading directly towards the beach where they are gathered,

apparently hot on the trail of some familiar scent. To everybody's amazement,

the dogs stop in front of Claudia, jumping excitedly and barking at her as

though they had found their prey. Claudia is nonplussed and almost petrified

with fear. She turns around and sees the others all staring at her. But she

cannot understand why they are looking at her that way nor why the dogs have

stopped right in front of her. Then, as if struck by a sudden flash of

memory, she touches her dress and cries out:

Completely relieved, Claudia smiles and bends over to pet the dogs, as the

attendant comes up to them and ties the leash back on to their necks. Then he

leads them away and heads once again upthe slope towards the top of the

island. Anna's father seems almost disillusioned by the negative results of

the search. Corrado also feels dissatisfied, and addressing himself to the

Marshal, says:

Meanwhile, the patrol boat has returned and is pulling ashore. Giulia is the

first one to notice its arrival and she calls out to the others that Sandro

is back. Then she goes over to where Anna's father is standing.

By this time, Sandro has come ashore, followed by the carabiniere, and

immediately goes up to Claudia.

But Claudia hardly looks at him, and seeing Corrado approaching, she moves

away from Sandro.

The sailors have unloaded the crate of cigarettes from the patrol boat and

the Marshal is getting all the details from the carabiniere.

The Marshal takes off for the patrol boat, and Corrado goes over to Anna's

father.

As soon as he finishes saying this, Sandro turns around and looks at Claudia,

as though he had just now realized that she was there listening to him.

Claudia goes to the gangplank and boards the yacht, disappearing into the

cabin. Having followed her with his gaze, Sandro then turns to Patrizia.

Sandro goes aboard the yacht and enters the cabin. On the way to his room he

meets Claudia who has just changed clothes and is about to return ashore.

They stare at each other for a moment without saying anything. But the

intensity in Claudia's look, mixed with fear and desire, is so overpowering

that Sandro takes her in his arms and kisses her. Claudia immediately

releases herself from his embrace, but for the moment it lasted, the kiss was

full and  passionate.  Then she turns and goes out on deck. Sandro remains

there, momentarily stunned, then picks up his valise and returns ashore.

As Claudia, followed by Sandro, steps back on the beach, she is met by

Patrizia.

He says this primarily for Claudia's sake, hoping to catch her eye. But she

keeps her head bowed low, and doesn't look up. After a moment of hesitation,

Sandro turns away and heads towards the small motorboat in which Anna's

father arrived from the mainland. And without saying another word, he climbs

aboard. Patrizia places her arm around Claudia's waist and together they

start walking towards the yacht. But upon reaching the foot of the gangplank,

Claudia stops.

Raimondo goes aboard the yacht and returns with Claudia's valise. He consigns

it to one of the carabinieri who, in turn, takes it aboard the patrol boat.

Claudia follows him aboard. The Marshal comes out of the radio room, steps

ashore, then joins Sandro and Anna's father on the motorboat, while Patrizia,

Giulia, Corrado and Raimondo go aboard the yacht.

***

In the seaport town of Milazzo, on the Sicilian mainland, Sandro and Anna's

father are seated in an office at police headquarters.  The sailors picked up

on a charge of carrying contraband are being questioned by the police

Lieutenant.

The Lieutenant motions for the sailor to come up to the desk, then points to

a sheet of paper in front of him.

Another sailor enters and timidly approaches the Lieutenant's desk. He is

rather young, and his face is completely bronzed by the sun.

The sailor starts, as though taken by surprise, then quickly answers.

Sandro is unable to control himself any longer. He gets up, walks over to the

sailor and yells in his face.

The Lieutenant motions to Sandro to be quiet, then calmly rises from his desk

and continues.

They all remain silent. The Lieutenant motions to the guard who then leads

the sailors out of the office.

Bidding goodbye to the Lieutenant, Anna's father leaves, without looking at

Sandro. A moment later, Sandro folds the newspaper he was reading, tucks it

under his arm, and starts heading towards the door.

The Lieutenant takes a look at the paper which carries a two-column story

headed: DISAPPEARANCE OF A ROMAN TOURIST AT LISCA BIANCA.

From the opposite end of the corridor through which Sandro and the Lieutenant

are walking, appears the Sergeant who was in charge of the patrol boat on

which Claudia toured the islands in search of Anna. After saluting his

superior, the Sergeant says:

The Sergeant again salutes his superior, then continues on his way along the

corridor. Sandro abruptly turns around and follows after him.

Sandro remains a while, absorbed in his thoughts, then hurriedly leaves the

building, and heads towards the station.

***

On her way to the waiting room of the station, Claudia purchases a newspaper,

then goes over to an empty bench and sits down. Turning to the local news

section, she suddenly comes upon the article announcing Anna's disappearance.

A moment later, Sandro appears at the door. Claudia looks up at him but

doesn't say a word. He walks over and sits down beside her.

There is a moment of silence, then Claudia shows him the newspaper article.

Claudia looks at him imploringly, intent on making him understand, without

having to tell him outright, that it is not a question of their seeing each

other. Sandro, of course, does realize and suddenly springs to his feet and

nervously begins pacing back and forth across the waiting room. Claudia, in

turn, also rises and goes over to him.

The bell announcing the train's arrival is sounded. Sandro turns around and

faces Claudia, almost with a sense of helpless despair.

But Sandro doesn't move. And again Claudia insists, imploring him not to

stay, although she realizes full well that this may mean a final goodbye.

Sandro still doesn't move, and is about to say something, but Claudia looks

at him so pleadingly and with such a determined expression, that he finally

succumbs and starts walking towards the exit behind the train tracks.

The train has just pulled into the station. The platform is completely empty

and Claudia is the only one to board the train. She climbs up the steps and

the door is closed behind her. A second later, she appears at the window,

looks out briefly, then disappears into her compartment. The station master

raises the signal for the engine to start, a short whistle is heard, and soon

the train gets under way.

Sandro dashes out across the tracks, swings open one of the doors, and boards

the train as it picks up speed and pulls away from the station.

Claudia is seated in a corner near the window, looking out. She appears

completely relaxed and totally drained of energy, fatigued after so much

tension. After a few seconds, she turns around and is abruptly startled to

see Sandro standing nearby in the corridor. He comes over to her compartment

and takes a seat directly opposite to hers. Claudia is absolutely furious.

Sandro remains silent, waiting for Claudia to settle down and calm herself.

But she continues to reproach him.

Suddenly, she stands up and goes into the corridor. The car is of an old type

-- one half is first class, the other second. Claudia stops in front of a

second-class compartment from which the sound of two voices is heard. One is

that of a woman -- sweet, very delicate and very feminine; the other is that

of a man with a Sicilian accent. Sandro joins Claudia. Standing there

together they hear the conversation.

There is a moment of silence. Then, the sound of music is heard coming from

the compartment. Claudia and Sandro look at one another with a smile on their

faces. Then Claudia leans over to peek into the compartment. The woman is

young; she has thick, wavy brown hair.  He is one of those typical seducers

from the provinces, with black hair. There is a tiny radio between them.

Sandro also takes a peek into the compartment. Then they withdraw as the two

resume their conversation.

Another pause. Sandro takes hold of Claudia's hand and presses it. She

doesn't resist, but allows him to do it.

Claudia presses up close to Sandro, amused and, at the same time, obviously

moved.

Claudia laughs but she is still very upset. All of a sudden, she starts and

looks out the little window. The train is coming into a station and is

beginning to slow down. Claudia grabs Sandro by the sleeve and pulls him

through the corridor. Sandro tries to resist.

She continues to drag him through the corridor, until they finally reach the

platform. Then she opens the door. They are both highly emotional. Claudia is

almost hysterical.

Sandro tries to grab her in his arms, but Claudia pushes him away, almost

with a sense of violence, as though she were afraid she might change her mind

once in his arms. In the meantime, the train has come to a stop in the

station. Sandro pauses to look at Claudia once more.

Claudia is visibly battling with herself. Then, in one last moment of

decision, she pushes Sandro towards the door and goes back into the car.

Once on the ground, Sandro walks back and forth along the platform to see if

he can find Claudia, hoping she might look out the window to wave goodbye.

But she doesn't appear. The train starts to move, as Sandro desperately tries

to catch a glimpse of Claudia. But she is not to be seen. Sandro starts

running along the platform, but the train is now going too fast. He stops --

angry, disappointed and upset.

***

At the entrance-way of a luxurious villa, Claudia, who has just arrived, is

greeted by the Princess. She is an elderly woman, rather ordinary in

appearance but very aristocratic in taste and manner.

Claudia smiles, and follows the Princess into the garden.

In the meantime, they have arrived at a shady alcove where, seated in various

wicker lounge chairs, are Patrizia, Giulia and a young man dressed in simple,

casual clothes. The first one to notice Claudia and to greet her with warm

cordiality, is Giulia.

Claudia plunks herself down in one of the lounge chairs next to Patrizia. The

young man rises and bows slightly.

There is a moment of silence; the thought of Anna returns to weigh on the

group. Claudia pours herself an orange drink from a pitcher on the table

beside her.

She takes a few steps, looks around at the villa, and at the other end of the

alcove sees Corrado and Ettore saying goodbye to a pair of elderly gentlemen.

Ettore immediately recalls Claudia's name from a previous conversation that

was apparently held before she arrived.

Now, with all this talk about Sandro, the sense of relaxation Claudia had

felt upon her arrival, has changed into a feeling of anxiety that becomes

more and more noticeable.

A gong announcing lunch resounds throughout the garden.

There is a moment of complete, dead silence, during which the same disturbing

thought flashes across the minds of all those who are present like a sudden

revelation.

They all get up except Claudia. She is left so completely shaken by the

conversation, by the thought, that it seems she no longer has the strength to

move. Giulia, after giving Corrado a defiant look, turns and smiles at the

young man who had stopped to wait for her.

Giulia laughs with a strange sense of excitement, then takes Goffredo by the

arm and leaves. Claudia remains alone. She watches the group heading towards

the house,  Giulia holding tight to  Goffredo, Ettore  to Patrizia. Their

voices are heard, somewhat unclear.

Finally, even Claudia starts moving, slowly, behind the others; but she is

still very much upset.

***

A crowd of people that keeps growing and growing from one moment to the next,

is gathered in one of the main streets of Messina, in front of a men's store

with its shutters half-shut. The local police are unable to control the flow

of traffic, which has been blocked as a result of the crowd. The cars are

packed close to one another, raising a great din with their horns. The throng

is composed chiefly of young men pushing and climbing over each other to get

near the shop to see inside. Sandro tries to make his way through the crowd

in an attempt to get up close himself, but the confusion is so great that he

finds the going very difficult. Remarks and comments are heard above the

noise.

A police siren is heard from afar, then before long it fills the air and

dominates every other sound.  An Alfa Romeo pulls up, followed by a police

wagon full of policemen. Both vehicles maneuver their way through the crowd

like snakes through a jungle, and stop right in front of the shop. Sandro

takes advantage of the opening created by the two cars and thus finds himself

a few steps away from the door. Bending over in order to see through the

small space left open by the half-drawn shutters, he notices several

newspapermen and photographers.

Meanwhile, the policemen have come out of the wagon and arrive at the door of

the shop, with the Chief of Police leading the way. One of them raises the

shutter, and the crowd, which has backed away slightly at the insistence of

the police, begins pressing forward threateningly. Soon pandemonium breaks

loose. In the confusion, Sandro manages to get inside the store along with

the policemen and two photographers. The shutter is again lowered, just a few

inches behind him.

Standing in the middle of the shop is a most charming and provocative young

brunette with tight-fitting pants and a blouse that is open almost from the

neck to the waist. She is wearing nothing under her blouse, so that with

every movement of her body, one cannot help catching a glimpse of her naked

breasts. As the policemen come forward, she receives them with a smile.

Sandro asks one of the journalists standing nearby if he can tell him which

one of them is Zuria.  The journalist points to a man who is only a few steps

away -- a man not very old but who has a ravaged face, and whose hair is

almost completely white.

Everybody is gathered around the Chief of Police and the girl. The store

clerks are looking at her admiringly. The manager, most upset, is explaining

the situation to the Chief of Police.

The girl interrupts him. She has a very self-satisfied look on her face.

Zuria turns to Sandro and clears his throat. Outside, the crowd becomes very

noisy.

Zuria nods to Sandro as if to say: now watch this.

The girl turns around and looks down at Zuria with contempt, but she manages

to remain calm.

Zuria clears his throat again and whispers to Sandro.

Photographer snaps a flash photo. The girl immediately strikes a pose. Other

flashes follow. The clerks ask for her autograph. One of the policemen raises

the shutter; the girl comes forward smiling, and is greeted with a certain

kind of roar from the crowd. The group leaves the shop. Sandro and Zuria also

come out. The girl, ushered out by the policemen, climbs into the Alfa Romeo.

The guard holds the crowd back. There are more camera flashes. More smiles

from the pretty stranger. Finally the car pulls out, followed by the police

wagon. Sandro and Zuria watch the car disappear through the crowd, which

starts to disperse. The din, however, is still enormous, due to the

unsnarling of the traffic jam.

Sandro shrugs his shoulders, somewhat surprised by the journalist's question.

Sandro is still looking at the journalist with a sense of incredulity, almost

as if he felt Zuria's conversation was something out of this world. But he is

brought back to reality by Zuria's last remark, which is made as the

journalist starts walking at a very hurried pace.

The journalist casts a sidewards glance at Sandro. He is a bitter and

sarcastic man, one who is completely absorbed with his own little problems

and his own daily routine. But for this very reason he is quite capable of

taking any kind of insult, either big or small.

The journalist clears his throat without answering. Then he grabs Sandro by

the arm and takes him back to the other side of the street where a few

people, left over from the crowd, are still discussing the incident that just

took place as they gradually drift away from the scene. The traffic is now

back to normal.

***

At the Princess' villa, Claudia is in her room, applying some fresh make-up

in front of a small dressing table. Although she appears thoroughly engrossed

in all the minute details of her make-up, nevertheless, she seems

considerably  interested in any sound that comes through her window.

The rumble of a motor is heard. Claudia runs to the window and looks out into

the garden. A dark car pulls up in front of the service entrance. A uniformed

chauffeur gets out of the car and enters the house carrying a package under

his arm. There is an obvious look of disappointment on Claudia's face. She is

about to return to the dressing table when she notices, there in the garden,

Giulia heading towards the house accompanied by the young Prince, Goffredo.

Claudia is profoundly shocked by Giulia's behavior as she laughs, jokes,

bends over to pick up some flowers, and skips along unashamedly.

In the meantime, Patrizia has entered the room with two wigs, one of which

she is wearing and the other in her hand. She also has on a cocktail dress,

but one that is more elaborate than Claudia's. Patrizia immediately goes up

to the mirror of the dressing table and, while she finishes arranging the wig

on her head, says to her friend:

Claudia, who has meanwhile tried on the other wig and is looking at herself

in the mirror, turns around to Patrizia.

The two of them burst out laughing and together they leave the room. Then

after a few steps through the corridor, they separate with a friendly gesture

towards each other. Patrizia goes into her room while Claudia prepares to

descend the wide stairway. Coming up the same stairway are Giulia and the

young Prince, Goffredo.  There is something of an embarrassing moment between

them. Then Giulia, aware of Claudia's presence, detaches herself from

Goffredo and, as they reach the top of the stairs, she comes over to Claudia

and takes her by the wrist in order to confide with her more intimately.

She laughs with an obvious sense of amusement, but she is also tickled by her

own vanity. Claudia looks at her without knowing what to say to her.

Claudia resigns herself to escorting Giulia to the floor up above. The very

top of the stairway leads to an attic, where Goffredo is leaning over the

railing, looking down.

Seeing the two of them arriving together, the young Prince feels

disappointed. But he knows he has to cover his intentions with a show of good

manners. When the two women reach the top of the stairs, he bows to Claudia

in a most respectful fashion. Then he leads them down a low and narrow

corridor to a door they pass through.

The attic is bright and spacious, with slanted roof, and two huge windows. It

is filled with paintings, easels, canvases, brushes and oils. As soon as

Giulia enters the studio, she moves away from Claudia and attaches herself to

the young Prince who is setting up one of his paintings on an easel beside

one of the windows. Claudia looks around the room with a sense of

indifference. Going over to the window, she looks out and sees a vast

panorama of the countryside.

Giulia looks at the painting with a certain amount of surprise. It is a

picture of a nude woman; a shapely figure, slightly plump, in the manner of

Renoir.

Claudia is looking through the paintings that lean up against the wall face

backwards. She turns one around: a nude woman. A second: another nude woman.

A third: the same.

Claudia goes back to look out the window: a group of flying birds swoops down

to land directly under the roof. The birds settle themselves in a little nest

directly in front of the window. Claudia bends over to get a better look and

is actually able to see the little nest, as she hears behind her the exchange

of remarks between Giulia and the young Prince.

Claudia moves away from the window, and continues to look at Giulia and

Goffredo with a deep sense of amazement. Giulia is euphoric, kittenish and

trembling with excitement. Goffredo is firm, resolute and serious.

Giulia glances over at Claudia, who is still preoccupied looking out of the

window, then screws up her courage and boldly advances towards Goffredo,

making her intentions clearly understood. Goffredo immediately responds to

her invitation and draws himself close up against her. There is a moment of

hesitation, then a kiss -- awkward but passionately violent. Giulia, on her

part, is completely shameless. Claudia turns around exactly at that moment

when the two of them are caught up in a feverish embrace. She looks at them,

completely dumbfounded, then takes a few steps forward as though she doesn't

believe her own eyes.

Giulia quickly turns around, her face is flushed with excitement but also

with an expression that seems somewhat triumphant. Before anybody has a

chance to say anything, she heads towards the door, swings it open and stands

firmly on the threshold,  obviously intent on telling Claudia to leave. In

fact, Claudia doesn't wait to be told but immediately walks out into the

hallway.

Giulia takes a few steps backward into the room, and seeing Claudia still

there looking at her strangely, exclaims:

And with a violent bang that leaves Claudia startled, Giulia slams the door

shut. Claudia remains standing there for a moment, still very much amazed.

But she is aroused from her stupor by the sound of a car pulling into the

courtyard. Then she rapidly starts descending the stairs.

Claudia has reached the hallway leading out to the garden and is anxiously

waiting there, looking at the car that has just arrived. But she is not able

to distinguish exactly who it is, and her view is also blocked by Ettore and

Corrado who have just come out of the house and are now standing in front of

the car. So she walks out to the garden and joins the group. A certain look

of disappointment spreads over her face as she sees only Raimondo come out of

the car. Evidently, Sandro has not been located.

Claudia moves away from the group, as though she has heard enough. She goes

over to lean against an enormous vase standing there on the side. Her hands

are trembling. In back of her she hears the sounds of the others' voices but

cannot distinguish what they are saying. Then Patrizia arrives and calls out

Claudia's name. But she has to repeat it a second time before Claudia

realizes she is being called.

Claudia turns around but doesn't move. Another car pulls up, driven by the

same chauffeur who had evidently picked her up the other day, and in which

the Princess is already seated.

Patrizia remains puzzled for a moment as though searching for a motive behind

Claudia's sudden decision, then discreetly turns away without insisting and

goes over to the car. In the meantime, Giulia and Goffredo have come out

through the hallway and head towards one of the two cars. Corrado looks at

them with a cold and critical stare, then with a deliberate intent to prick

Giulia's feelings, he says:

Ettore breaks out into a laugh as he helps Patrizia into the car.

Claudia watches them getting into the car. She is beside herself, completely

wrapped up in her own thoughts.

***

In the rear of a general store, on the outskirts of a small Sicilian town, a

woman is seated at the window. She is very young, thin and irascible. Up

front, her husband is speaking with Sandro, and as she listens attentively to

what he is saying, a sarcastic smile spreads over her face.

After waiting a few seconds to give her husband a chance to explain himself,

the wife jumps up from where she is sitting, comes over to Sandro and yanks

the paper from his hands. Then she starts reading the article in a jerky

manner typical of one who is not too literate.

She suddenly stops reading and turns toward Sandro.

The husband, a young man, tries to keep calm and carry on the conversation in

a logical, persuasive manner.

He indicates Sandro.  Then, seeing a fat, luscious female customer enter the

store, he turns to her and continues:

The woman, anxious to learn about any new bit of gossip, becomes immediately

interested.

Sandro, a little sick and tired of the whole matter, and wanting to put an

end to what has by now become farcical, intervenes.

The husband turns around and looks at his wife menacingly.

***

Sandro leaves the store. He walks a few steps along the pavement, then sits

down at a small outside table of a nearby caf. He looks out over the square:

a small Sicilian town, quiet and still in the hot afternoon sun. Every now

and then, he glances up at the country road that winds around the town, as

though he were waiting for someone.

A few moments later, in fact, a car comes into view and slows down as it

reaches the square. The driver looks out for a place in which to park. Sandro

rises to his feet. The car comes to a stop a few steps away from him. The

driver rushes out of the car to open the door for the person inside: it is

Claudia. Sandro immediately goes over to meet her, looking at her somewhat

amazed. Not only does he see her more elegantly dressed than he has ever seen

her before, wearing a smartly tailored polka-dot suit, but also as an

entirely new person, as someone whose beauty he has discovered for the first

time. For a moment they continue staring at each other, without even

bothering to say hello.

Claudia drops her gaze, relieved by even that slight note of hope. Then she

looks up at him again, as though inspired by another sudden thought:

something which must have lingered in her mind from one of the Princess'

humorous quips. Then, the owner of the general store appears on the scene.

After having dealt his nagging wife a crushing verbal blow, he turns to

Sandro, but not without first glancing at Claudia, for whom it soon becomes

evident he has really come out on the street.

While speaking, he continues to keep an eye on Claudia with the look of one

who thinks his gaze is loaded with irresistible masculinity. All of a sudden,

he pulls out a package of Nazionali cigarettes from his pocket and offers one

to Claudia. She looks at him dumbfounded, then automatically declines with a

shake of her head. In turn, he lights up a cigarette, inhaling the smoke

voluptuously. Meanwhile, his wife has come upon the scene and looks at him

suspiciously. Then, with a sad, wistful voice, she turns to Claudia.

His wife turns and looks at him hatefully, exactly in the same manner he had

looked at her.

Claudia and Sandro look at each other. There is a moment of embarrassment,

then Sandro breaks the silence.

They exchange goodbyes, then Claudia and Sandro move away from the store and

head towards Claudia's car. Suddenly, Sandro takes Claudia by the hand.

Claudia is about to withdraw her hand but she is taken aback by Sandro's

phrase, which also fills her with a warm and tender feeling after the squalid

situation with the young storekeeper and his wife. Now Sandro opens the door

of the car, looks at Claudia as if to ask her consent for what he is about to

do, and since Claudia says nothing but just stands there trying to figure out

which one of the feelings struggling within her will win, he removes

Claudia's valise and closes the door.

The driver bows slightly, then he climbs into the car and departs. Sandro and

Claudia remain there, watching the car disappear out of view. Now Sandro

turns to look at Claudia, and smiles at her. Claudia is visibly upset. She

doesn't smile back but merely turns away and heads towards Sandro's car.

***

Claudia is intent on looking at Sandro who is doing the driving. The car is

traveling on a country road but Claudia shows no interest in the landscape.

She continues to stare at Sandro as if she wants to know his most secret

thoughts. Suddenly, feeling himself being stared at, Sandro turns towards

Claudia. She quickly drops her gaze. Then Sandro turns his eyes back to the

road, and Claudia looks up at him again.

From a bend in the road up ahead, preceded by the loud and penetrating blast

of a horn, the bus mentioned earlier by the storekeeper appears. Sandro

barely manages to stop the car in time off to one side of the road. He gets

out and places himself in the middle of the road where he starts signaling

for the bus to stop. With a loud screech of its brakes, the bus comes to a

stop almost directly in front of him. The bus driver opens the window and

leans out.

Meanwhile, the driver's assistant gets down from the bus and the passengers

lean out of the windows.  Claudia has also gotten out of the car and appears

on the scene.

The driver gets down from the bus and comes over to Sandro, scratching his

head.

He turns to his assistant for verification, who, in turn, searches his memory

and then adds:

Sandro turns and goes back to his car while the others climb back on the bus

which begins to leave. Claudia and Sandro remain standing near the car,

watching the bus disappear. Then Claudia turns and looks out over the fields.

She sees a dry riverbed filled with stones that sparkle in the sun, beside it

a high rocky bank. Sandro stands next to her and she becomes vividly aware of

his presence. As she glances at him, he turns around, then she quickly starts

up a conversation as though she were anxious not to have any romantic mood

develop between them.

Then, still feeling Sandro's eyes fixed upon her, she turns and starts

heading towards the car.  Sandro catches up with her and takes her hand.

Before they climb into the car they look at each other intensely. A moment

later, the car takes off at full speed.

***

In a courtyard of the midwife's house, Sandro and Claudia are questioning a

middle-aged woman.

The woman pauses for a few seconds and looks at Claudia as though she had

detected some hidden motive behind the question. And when she resumes

speaking, what she has to say is in sharp contrast to the way she says it.

They are words of protest but spoken condescendingly, almost sweetly, yet

leaving no doubt as to their meaning.

Seeing Claudia being put into an uncomfortable position, Sandro, who had been

following the midwife's discussion with a cagey attitude, intervenes.

Claudia starts moving hurriedly out of the courtyard, followed by Sandro.

***

Sandro's car is speeding across a harsh, sun-baked landscape, bypassing long

lines of peasants returning from the fields: the women seated on donkeys, the

men on foot. The more fortunate among them have horse drawn carts.

Claudia is looking at the surrounding countryside and spies an iron bridge

that is all rusty and obviously no longer in use.

The car continues onward, passing an abandoned factory, then a railroad

station, also abandoned, its tracks covered by weeds, the ticket office

haphazardly boarded up with old wooden planks.

Sandro shrugs his shoulders and continues driving without saying a word. Up

ahead a small town comes into view, with monotonous rows of newly constructed

homes lined up along the side of the road. The car enters the town and stops.

Sandro gets out and goes over to a fountain nearby, but the fountain is dry.

Somewhat surprised, he begins to look around. And only then do Sandro and

Claudia become aware that the silence around them is an unnatural one, that

the doors and the windows of all the houses in the town are tightly shut.

There is no sign of life anywhere, except for the weeds growing between the

cracks in the walls, invading and suffocating everything in sight.

Claudia gets out of the car, joins Sandro, and together they start walking

along the streets. The sun beats furiously down upon the crumbling houses,

upon the church, upon the useless monument in the square on which a

dedication is inscribed: "To The Agricultural Worker."

Sandro looks around in absolute silence. Claudia is also  silent, somewhat

dismayed. Instinctively, she presses up close to Sandro who leads her to a

shady spot where the ground is overgrown with weeds.

Sandro and Claudia are lying next to each other on the grass. Sandro appears

calm but is actually looking at Claudia as though he were about to embrace

her with his eyes. Then he takes her hand. Claudia offers no resistance; in

fact, she entwines her fingers around his, almost with a sense of

desperation. Sandro tries to kiss her. She makes a feeble attempt to resist,

looks around, and sees the deserted town, the barren fields, the crumbling,

sun-baked walls. She turns and looks at Sandro again, and now it is she who

kisses him. When they break apart, they stretch themselves out upon the grass.

Sandro kisses her violently, again and again and again...

***

The early twilight shadows are beginning to fall. The sky is still clear but

the sun is fading. There is a deep silence and the air is absolutely still.

In a certain sense, Sandro's car, standing there in the middle of the

deserted street, is the only thing alive in that desolate town.

Huddled close to each other, Claudia and Sandro are asleep on the grass.

Lazily, Claudia awakens, and then Sandro also opens his eyes. They are both

somewhat disheveled.

Little by little, she leaves behind the drowsiness of her deep and peaceful

sleep, purring languorously in a typically feminine fashion. Sandro smiles

and gently embraces her. A moment later, Claudia releases herself from

Sandro's arms, sits up and realizes that the countryside and the town itself

are as black and motionless as death. A cold shiver runs down her back and

she quickly comes to her feet.

Claudia starts to move but her legs are still numb from her sound sleep and

she hobbles along comically, laughing at the same time. Sandro also gets up

and finds that his legs are cramped. Hobbling and laughing himself, he

follows Claudia towards the car. But the car, baked by the sun, is like an

oven. They both make boisterous and playful exclamations, then another

embrace, another kiss. Finally, they climb into the car and drive off with a

loud roar that echoes up and down the abandoned town.

***

Sandro and Claudia arrive in the town of Noto and pull up on the opposite

side of the street from the Trinacria Hotel. As they climb out of the car,

Claudia turns to Sandro:

Sandro agrees by a nod of his head and indicates that he understands very

well. Nevertheless, he doesn't move. Several agonizing moments go by in which

they both remain silent and still, looking at the hotel across the way. Then,

tossing away his cigarette, Sandro finally walks off and goes into the hotel.

Left alone, Claudia strolls along for a few steps. She sees a letter box up

against a building and deposits a postcard she had been carrying with her.

She remains there for a moment, watching a parade of ants crawling along the

wall, ending up who knows where. They come and go, scurrying up and down in

vast numbers, incredibly busy. Then Claudia turns away and starts pacing back

and forth, stopping from time to time behind townspeople who mill about in

the streets; she pays them no heed. Several young men pass by and turn around

to look at her. They are obviously the town's dandies. Circling around her,

they exchange suggestive comments to one another. Even among the women

Claudia arouses a certain curiosity. But she remains totally unaware of it;

such is the intensity with which she concentrates her gaze upon the hotel

entrance. Suddenly the sound of a shutter being lowered directly behind her

causes her to start and turn around. It is a shop being closed. Other shops,

further down the street, are also closing for the day. The people in the

streets begin thinning out and it is not long before Claudia is left entirely

by herself. In that total solitude, the doorway of the hotel emerges like the

mouth of some dark and fearful cavern, so much so that Claudia is unable to

keep her eyes fixed upon that spot. She turns her head away, but her

attention is immediately drawn back again. From the darkness of the hotel's

hallway, she spies Sandro coming out. Claudia doesn't wait to see if he is

alone or not, for she has only one thought in mind: not to let herself be

seen. But she doesn't know what to do since there is practically no one else

in the streets and all the shops are closed. Then she notices a tobacco shop

still open and she quickly dashes into it. She goes up to the counter as she

opens her purse and starts looking for some change.

Her hands tremble as she searches for the money. Finally, she pays the

storekeeper and immediately lights up a cigarette. Suddenly, she wheels

about, having heard Sandro enter. He is alone. Throwing away his cigarette,

he comes up to her, all nervous and excited, and they both step out into the

street.

As soon as she is outside, Claudia leans up against the wall as if she has no

strength left. She lets her cigarette fall to the ground and shuts her eyes.

might calm her, but also with a certain amount of seriousness. But as soon as

he opens his mouth to say "Claudia," she places her hand over his lips.

Sandro tries to calm her with an embrace.

Moved by Sandro's remark, Claudia lifts her head and looks deeply into his

eyes. The statement reveals him as being someone quite different from the

person she had imagined him to be, and at the same time, it opens up for her

a new way of looking at things. Shaking his head, and with much tenderness,

he says:

At the sound of a man's voice coming from behind him, Sandro turns and sees a

gentleman with two large packages under his arms, pointing to a bell-cord

dangling on the side of a door nearby.

Sandro pulls the bell-cord and the sound of a bell is heard inside.

The door opens and the gentleman quickly steps inside. Sandro looks up at the

building.

He takes Claudia by the arm and pulls her away towards the square, then looks

attentively around the area. Bathed in the soft twilight, the buildings and

the churches bordering the square reveal themselves in all their beauty.

Sandro and Claudia climb up the steps of a church building and from there

gaze at the scene. Gradually he allows himself to be overcome with

enthusiasm.

There is a moment of silence during which he continues to look at the scene

before him. Then, giving voice to a sincere thought, he exclaims:

Claudia looks at him as if she were about to render judgment, and Sandro

becomes aware of it.

The last words are spoken with a deep sense of sadness, Sandro avoiding

Claudia's glance. He laughs to himself and for a while remains silent. He

takes another look up at the dark outlines of the buildings, then turns to

Claudia.

Sandro smiles and playfully ruffles Claudia's hair. She also smiles, then

slowly they both head towards the hotel.

***

It is morning inside the Hotel Trinacria.  Claudia has just had breakfast in

her room and is almost finished dressing. It is a rather large room, set out

with old pieces of furniture. The place is in a state of disarray, and the

door leading into Sandro's room is wide open. Because of the general

disorder, Claudia is unable to find her stockings. But instead of being

angered by this, she appears quite jovial and laughs gaily. As she continues

to look for her stockings, Sandro appears in the doorway.

Claudia comes up to Sandro and gazes upon him with a look of adoration.

She starts looking hurriedly around the room again but is still unable to

locate her stockings. Suddenly, up from the street comes the sound of music.

It is a popular tune, wild and rhythmic, emanating from a publicity truck as

part of some local advertising stunt. Claudia is overtaken by the music and

cannot resist the temptation to do a little dance for Sandro. Little by

little, she starts swaying back and forth to the music. Then, kicking off her

shoes, she begins to dance around the room in her bare feet. Sandro looks at

her, amused but also somewhat impatient.

Claudia rushes up to the door, and feigning an exaggerated attitude of

despair, says:

Claudia is in a playful mood and she is anxious to demonstrate her

exuberance.

Sandro replies with the same good-natured tolerance with which he had been

watching Claudia as she danced her coquettish dance.

Without waiting for him to answer, she goes back towards the center of the

room and once again starts looking around for her stockings. Sandro begins to

leave.

Sandro goes out the door. Claudia finally locates her stockings and proceeds

to finish dressing.

***

Sandro comes out of the hotel and crosses over to the sunny square. He starts

strolling down along a street which leads to a baroque church that opens up

to a wide flight of stone steps. Beyond these steps is a small dead-end

street that runs up against the faade of a large and magnificent old

building. A few feet away from the faade, seated on a bench in the shade, is

an old coachman whose horse is standing beside him with its head deep in a

sack of hay.

Sandro goes down the flight of steps and approaches the door of the old

building which is closed. He rings the bell but there is no answer. Then he

notices a time schedule posted on the door indicating visiting hours. After

glancing at it, he walks over to the seated coachman.

Sandro shakes his head and is about to say something but he sees the door

opening and a man appears.  Sandro goes over to him.

Sandro enters and finds himself inside a large courtyard of noteworthy

architectural design, though somewhat in a state of decay. The custodian goes

on his way and Sandro walks further into the courtyard where two young men

are studying the architecture. On hearing Sandro's footsteps, they turn

around for a moment, then resume their observation. They are, in fact, young

architectural students busily engaged in taking notes and copying certain

architectural details. They do this with an extraordinary interest, almost

with a sense of religious zeal. Sandro continues to stroll through the

courtyard. His footsteps are the only sounds to be heard disturbing the

otherwise absolute silence. The two young students exchange words between

each other but they speak in faint whispers, almost as though they were

inside a church.

Sandro gazes up at the arcades, the columns, the windows. He is obviously

filled with a painful sense of regret, resentful and bitter. He turns to look

at the two young students who are deep in their studies and ignore his

presence. But he is unable to ignore them; they plainly annoy him. In a

certain sense, they humiliate him. He turns away and heads towards the exit,

walking on the tip of his toes so as not to make any noise. Then he goes out,

quietly closing the door behind him.

***

In the hotel lobby, a maid is cleaning and dusting, and at the same time,

singing little snatches from a popular romantic tune. The hotel manager, who

is busy writing something in the register behind the desk, looks up and says:

Disappointed, the maid immediately stops singing, and the manager resumes

writing. But she quickly looks up again as she hears footsteps coming down

the stairs. It is Claudia.

Claudia is immediately interested to hear this bit of news and is about to

ask for additional information. But she is suddenly distracted by Sandro who

enters the lobby at that very moment.

Sandro doesn't answer but merely shrugs his shoulders. Then he takes Claudia

by the arm and gently leads her towards the stairway. He has a worried

expression on his face and remains absolutely silent as he starts climbing

the stairs. As they walk through the corridor, Claudia looks at him

anxiously, wondering what is wrong.

He opens the door to his room and ushers Claudia in. As soon as he enters, he

takes off his jacket and throws it on a chair. Then he walks over to the

window and closes the shutters. Then, without saying a word, he turns to

Claudia, grabs her in his arms and squeezes her. Claudia smiles, and

playfully yells "Ouch!" Then he goes to kiss her but Claudia tries to resist

but doesn't succeed. This little struggle stimulates Sandro and is enough to

make him forget all reserve. He drags Claudia on to the bed and forces her to

lie down.

But Sandro hugs her and kisses her again. This time, Claudia lets herself be

kissed.

Sandro only responds by kissing her again. Then Claudia yields. Sandro is

angry and excited, as though he wanted to take his resentment out on Claudia.

Wounded, Claudia pushes him away with all her might, and exclaims:

She stops short, then turns aside and reaches out to touch his jacket on the

chair, looking into the pockets, not with curiosity but with a sense of love.

Sandro grabs her by the shoulders and forces her to turn around.

Claudia remains silent, then gets up from the bed, and in a subdued tone of

voice, says:

There is a moment of silence, then Claudia starts heading towards the door.

***

It is evening. Sandro's car is pulling into the town of Taormina on its way

to the San Domenico. It comes to a small square and passes by a group of men

and women seated on the steps of an ancient ruin. They are dressed in evening

clothes and are laughing and giggling. The car turns into the street of the

San Domenico and stops in front of the hotel. A porter immediately comes out

and opens the door. Claudia and Sandro get out and head towards the small

courtyard that leads into the foyer.

The lobby is full of activity and alive with people dressed in formal attire.

Claudia is clearly intrigued by everything she sees: the surroundings, the

people, etc. Sandro approaches the reception desk as Claudia walks slightly

ahead, anxious to see what is going on. The sound of music is heard coming

from one of the halls at the other end of the lobby. There is obviously a

party underway: further on, through a glass partition, couples are seen

dancing. Suddenly, Claudia stops. Directly up ahead, she notices Patrizia. As

soon as she see Claudia, Patrizia comes to greet her, smiling.

Claudia smiles and they both kiss each other on the cheek.

Instead of answering, Patrizia takes Claudia by the hand and leads her over

to a bench along the side of the wall and sits down. Claudia remains

standing, somewhat annoyed by the crowd of people around her.

Patrizia rises and leads Claudia out to a terrace that overlooks the entire

bay which is dotted with lights. Claudia takes in the view but her attention

is still focused on Patrizia. She waits from one moment to the next to have

questions thrown at her, but Patrizia remains silent. So Claudia turns around

and looks at her as though to say: Come on, say what you have to say and

let's get it over with. But Patrizia smiles at her sweetly and only murmurs:

Claudia feels relieved and presses Patrizia's hand, almost with a sense of

renewed friendship. Sandro appears from behind the glass partition and comes

out on the terrace to greet Patrizia.

They leave the terrace and go through one of the halls towards the corridor

that leads to the rooms. Claudia walks ahead, with Patrizia and Sandro

following slightly behind. The hall is still packed with people.

Claudia looks at Sandro, assured by Patrizia's reply. She remains thoughtful

for a moment, then asks Patrizia:

Patrizia and Sandro burst out laughing, and Sandro reaches out and ruffles

Claudia's hair. They have arrived in front of a room that is situated on the

ground floor, and are greeted by a hotel clerk who is waiting for them with

keys in hand. The door is already open and Claudia is about to enter.

Sandro nods yes and Claudia waves so long, as Patrizia takes her leave.

Claudia enters the room behind the clerk, and Sandro follows. Claudia stops

in the middle of the room, as the clerk goes through his various duties with

professional exactitude: he turns on the lights, draws the window curtains,

checks to see if there are enough hangers in the wardrobe, then finally opens

the door to the adjoining room, into which he disappears. All his movements

seem completely automatic.

Then Sandro enters the adjoining room, where the clerk has in the meantime

turned on all the lamps and performed all the other little duties. Sandro

starts to undo his tie. Claudia remains standing in the middle of the room,

listening to all of Sandro's movements in the other room. A knock is heard at

the door of Sandro's room and Sandro is heard saying:

A few seconds later, the porter also enters Claudia's room with her baggage.

She opens the valise and starts taking out her nightgown and other

necessities. Her gestures are slow and imprecise because fatigue has overcome

her. Several moments pass, and Sandro appears at the door in his pajamas.

Sandro shrugs his shoulders without, apparently, giving much thought to

Claudia's statement. He goes into the bathroom saying:

The sound of the shower running is heard.

Claudia goes up to the door adjoining the two rooms and stops at the doorway

of the bathroom that is situated between the two rooms.

Claudia has been listening to Sandro with her head leaning against the door

jamb, her eyes closed. As soon as Sandro stops, she goes back to her bed and

starts undressing. Sandro comes out of the bathroom, wearing a bathrobe, and

going over to Claudia, says in an affectionate tone:

Claudia disappears into her bathroom, and Sandro returns to his room. After a

while, his voice is heard.

Claudia has slipped into her nightgown and returned to her room. Sandro is

heard clearing his throat, and then continuing.

Sandro reappears at the doorway, already half dressed. Claudia slides into

bed and stretches herself out under the covers.

Sandro turns out the lamp on the table while Claudia closes the main switch.

The room is enveloped in darkness. Sandro approaches the bed and bends over

Claudia to kiss her.

Sandro goes towards the door, then turns and smiles.

He returns to his room, closing the door behind him. He seems somewhat

meditative, as though the little discourse he has just delivered has in some

way touched him deeply. He also seems a little sad. Then he puts on his tie

and jacket, lights up a cigarette, and goes to the door.

***

Sandro comes out of his room and walks along through the corridors, heading

towards the reception halls down at the other end. Other persons are walking

up and down the corridor in both directions.

Sandro's attention is attracted by the figure of a woman who is coming his

way at a rather quick pace. She is wrapped in a tight-fitting evening dress

that emphasizes the various harmonious parts of her body. Sandro looks at

her. He seems to recognize her but isn't quite sure who it is. The girl

passes alongside of him and apparently she too has the same impression, for

she gives him a look that lasts much longer than it normally would between

two complete  strangers. She stops in front of a door but before entering,

she casts another glance at Sandro, who suddenly recalls that she is the same

woman who had almost provoked a riot in the streets of Messina and who was

forced to take refuge in a men's shop. There is a moment of hesitation, then

the girl opens the door and disappears into the room. Sandro continues on

ahead until he reaches the bar, which is still very crowded.

Evening clothes of all kinds. Shiny silks. Jewels dangling from wrists, necks

and ears that are either white or bronzed by the sun. Shoes of silver or

lustrous black. Headdresses of many women -- high, cropped or short and

bobbed. Men with hair well groomed but also frequently mussed. A vast,

tumultuous wave of people, all wealthy and respectable, talking, laughing and

carrying on as though the whole wide world was right there and everybody in

it was like them.

Snatches of witticisms. Faces of passing people. Hands reaching out for

glasses. The expressions on the face of the barman, smiling and indifferent.

The sad, sullen face of the cloakroom attendant. The dumbfounded look on the

face of a thirteen-year-old elevator boy.

Sandro feels very much at home in this milieu. One thinks so little, forgets

so easily. And things are so conveniently ignored, beginning with one's own

self. Sandro moves through the crowd, here and there. Standing next to the

orchestra is a girl in black pants, singing strange songs in a soft,

suggestive voice.

Sandro encounters Ettore. As soon as he sees Sandro, Ettore comes over and

places an arm around his shoulder, almost in the form of an embrace.

Sandro agrees with a nod of his head. But he is thoughtful and somewhat

saddened. As Ettore returns to his friends with whom he had been speaking and

laughing, Sandro looks at him almost with a sense of rage.

Then he goes back to the bar and orders something to drink. He is not aware

that the girl from Messina is just a few yards away and is watching him. She

is extremely tanned, extremely voluptuous, and extremely beautiful.

Sandro moves away from the bar with the glass in his hand. He passes in front

of a semi-dark room and takes a peek inside: a television set is turned on

but nobody is watching it. Sandro is restless. He comes to a terrace and

stops to look down at the illuminated docks below. The headlights of cars

passing by fan out across the road that runs along the shore of the sea. With

an angry gesture, Sandro finishes his drink, gulping the whiskey down in one

fast swallow. He squeezes the empty glass in his hand as though he had wanted

to crush it.

***

The early rays of dawn are faintly seen coming through a window at the far

end of the corridor. Claudia comes rushing out of her room and runs over to

Patrizia's door. She knocks, then without waiting for a response, she enters.

Patrizia gets up out of bed and goes into the adjoining room.

She returns to her room.

Claudia sinks down into a chair, weak and exhausted.

Claudia gets up and leaves the room. She continues walking down along the

corridor, checking here and there. But the hotel is deserted. There are still

a few lights  on in  the reception hall but not enough to illuminate the

place adequately. Finally, she reaches the main hall and stops. The only

signs of last night's party is a certain disorder in the placement of the

armchairs and ashtrays filled with cigarette butts. Even the main hall seems

completely deserted. But all of a sudden, Claudia becomes aware of something

moving on a sofa at the far end of the room. She takes a few steps, walking

silently over the thick carpet, so as to get a better look. There seems to be

a slight movement among what appears to be a jumbled pile of male and female

clothes, partly hidden from view by the back of the sofa. Claudia goes up

still closer because she is not able to see clearly what or who it is. Only

that she has the impression of having seen that suit before... A man's suit.

She is now able to distinguish what it is: a couple embracing and kissing.

Claudia approaches still closer. She is now just a few steps away. Little by

little, as she advances, her face takes on such a painful look of

astonishment that she appears almost petrified. She hesitates and bumps up

against a little table that makes a small noise. The couple on the sofa come

out of their embrace and look up. The man is Sandro; the woman is the girl

from Messina. Sandro looks at Claudia as though he were filled with terror.

The girl, instead, seems quite amused. Claudia remains for a moment, staring

at them as if she can't believe her own eyes, and is incapable of making any

move. Then, she abruptly turns away and starts running. She runs through the

main hall, the reception room, the courtyard, and out into the street.

There is not a soul to be seen. No sound. The day is breaking clear and

serene.

Claudia comes over to a bench with its paint all peeling off, but she doesn't

sit down. Transfixed, and with her eyes almost wide open, she stares out at

the sea, and at the waves which are also a mystery unto themselves.

Footsteps are heard approaching from behind, but Claudia doesn't even bother

to turn. It seems that nothing could distract her from that painful state of

shock which is written all over her face. A young laborer in overalls,

carrying a small bundle under his arm, passes by, glancing at her with a look

of curiosity. He walks a few paces ahead, then turns around to look at her

again as though she were some kind of strange creature.

The sound of footsteps dies down in the distance, and everything is silent

once more. There is only the gentle lapping of the waves as they roll up

against the shore. Claudia is completely oblivious to the scene. Several

birds swoop down emitting their small cries. A sudden but almost

imperceptible sea breeze ripples Claudia's hair.

Other footsteps are heard approaching: slow, heavy. Claudia is still not

stirred from her thoughtful, trance-like state. The footsteps come to a halt

directly behind her. It is Sandro. He appears thoroughly crestfallen. He

doesn't even have enough courage to look at Claudia. His face is worn and

disfigured, like that of a tired old man. And he lets himself fall limp onto

the bench. They both remain completely motionless, without looking at each

other. And detached: Claudia standing, Sandro seated. Behind them, the

skeleton of cement. Further off, the sea.

Gradually, Claudia turns her head towards Sandro. Her eyes are filled with

tears. She looks down upon him as though he were something that greatly

pained her. She moves up closer to the bench. Sandro doesn't budge an inch.

Claudia reaches out to him with her hand, then slowly, gently, and with an

overwhelming sense of desperation, she caresses his hair.

