Based on t he Book by

slowly back eventually reveals the edges of a narrow wooden

picture frame ...

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1930

Drifting away from the painting and slowly across a room.

Across Venetian blinds, open, letting in moonlight, across

intricate handmade wooden models, dime novels and comic books,

across the arm of a metronome gently slapping back and forth,

and settling finally on a small hand writing slowly and

deliberately, over and over, in synchronization, it seems, to

the rhythm of the metronome, the word, " L E O N A R D . "

2.   INT. DINING ROOM - MORNING - 1930

The pendulum of a clock. An adult hand placing a bowl of

cereal on a table. Leonard, ten or eleven, waits a moment for

the adult to leave, grasps his spoon, and manipulates it from

bowl to mouth in time with the soft regular rhythm of the

clock.

3.   EXT. STREET - NEW YORK - MORNING - 1930                      3.

Schoolbooks slung over their shoulders, Leonard and another boy

his age, a classmate, move along a street.

All around them are "visual rhythms" - lines in the sidewalk,

the even placement of trees, the sunlight breaking through the

branches above them - and somewhere unseen, the rhythmic

pounding of an elevator train.

As they climb a fence, a pocket watch, Leonard's, falls to the

ground.

4.   INT. CLASSROOM - DAY - 1930

An adult hand chalking the words of a poem on a blackboard.

Children at desks dutifully transcribing the lesson.

All but one. Leonard. Whose hands are trembling slightly and

whose paper is blank. There is a noticeable lack of rhythms.

A cold silence. The broken watch rests on his desk.

The boy from the train, glancing at Leonard, begins gently

tapping the end of his pen against his desk. Leonard, "guided"

by the cadence of his friend's tapping, begins to write.

(o   The teacher's hand at the blackboard hesitates. Distracted by     4.

o    at his desk grading the penmanship lesson.

6.C0NT.              BOY'S VOICE                              6.CONT,

After a moment --

-- and the sound of a door closing.

A small twisted hand lifts a slat of the Venetian blinds

revealing the snow-patched street below. Leonard's friend,

crossing it, glances back . . . then disappears around a corner.

And the small gnarled hand lets the slat slide down,

extinguishing the single ray of light.

6A.   EXT. BAINBRIDGE -HOSPITAL - THE. BRONX - DAY - 1970 .        6A

Tight on the face of a man (SAYER), late thirties, glasses,

staring up at the face of a building, imposing in its

institutional dullness.

6B.    INT. LOBBY - BAINBRIDGE - DAY                               6B.

A dim, sleepy cavern of a lobby. No one but a switchboard

operator thumbing through a magazine. Echoing footsteps reach

her station and she glances up and at the man from outside.

7.    INT. ADMINISTRATION OFFICE - BAINBRIDGE - DAY

He seems uncomfortable. Perhaps it's the suit. Or the place.

Or the situation. Or the hard straight-backed chair he's in.

When he does finally speak, it's with great sincerity --

Behind an old oak desk, the hospital's Director glances over

to its Chief of Medicine, Dr. Kaufman, with a look that seems

to wonder, As opposed to what?

uncomfortable. He tries to clear up the confusion -

He doesn't laugh at Sayer, just at the thought of it.

Sayer tries to share the Director's amusement with a good- *

natured smile, but doesn't really understand it. Kaufman seems *

to have less time for this, and in plain English, unadorned -  *

Sayer looks like a man who's just learned that everything he *

knows about the world is wrong.         f

The Director refers to stapled sheets of paper in his hands,

Sayer's resume.

The Director isn't sure he heard right.

Q

7.C0NT.              SAYER                                      .    7.

Kaufman shoots the Director a look that says, No, we're not

that desperate.

Sayer hesitates. And eventually manages sort of a shrug and a

n od .,            v'

Kaufman can't believe it, but is sent back a look that says,

We have no choice. The Director gets up out of his chair, and,

smiling broadly, extends his hand to Sayer. Which unsettles

Sayer. Which in turn unsettles the Director.

Sayer isn't so sure.   He thinks about it long and hard . . .

8.   INT. CORRIDOR   - BAINBRIDGE - DAY                                8.

Moving along a corridor crowded "with patients, some ambulatory,

some in wheelchairs, "living people" living with profound

neurological disease.

A patient approaches, and, passing Sayer and the orderly who's

escorting him (ANTHONY), offers -

8.C0NT.               ANTHONY                                          8.

As they pass an old patient in a wheelchair -

Staying on the old patient, he eventually manages, too late -

Down the hall in an alcove, Dr. Sullivan glances up long

sufferingly from-a.patient~with'.an .Ouij a-board who !.s mumbling,          *

complaining, unintelligibly. Anthony and Sayer arrrive.

been here too long.

Sayer extends his hand. Instead of shaking it -

- Sullivan thrusts his clipboard into Sayer's hand.

9.   OMITTED                                                                9.

10. INT. DAYROOM (A) - DAY                                              10.

A woman in a wheelchair uttering high-pitched screams (FEMALE

PATIENT 2 ) . Sayer in a lab coat trying to calm her.

10.CONT.            SAYER                .                    10.

He tries to prove it to her by removing one of them from the

pocket of his white coat. Screaming louder at the sight of it,

she tries to protect her face with her hands like a boxer being

beaten senseless.

11.   INT. DAYROOM (B) - DAY                                  11.

A man in his sixties confronts Sayer with an announcement in a

loud commanding voice -

12.   INT. DAYROOM (C) - DAY                                     12.

Stepping around a wheelchair, Sayer finds in it an elderly

woman, nicely dressed, her hair done-up, a ribbon in it.

Glancing at the chart in his hand -

She smiles, glances around. Sayer hesitates, uncertain who she

means.

(6   Confused, Sayer tries to find a discharge form among the papers

15.    INT. TENEMENT - NEW YORK.- DAY                                  1

The needle of a Victrola clawing at the endless music-less

inner bands of a 78 . . .                                .*       .

Cold eggs and toast and prescription medicine on a kitchenette

table. A puddle of coffee on the floor. Ceramic shards, a

broken cup. .

An old woman on her knees, eyes closed, arms tangled in an

aluminum walker, limp and stiff at once somehow, like the limbs

of a discarded marionette. Beyond her, beyond a threshold, a

shuttered living room. Furniture from another era and the

clutter of a lifetime.

A shadowy figure in a wicker wheelchair near the Victrola.

Another old woman, with spindly limbs, profoundly afflicted and

preposterously still. The back of her head is flat and bald,

the result of lying supine upon it for much of several decades.

On her passive face rest round wire-rim glasses. Insane or

retarded and unaware of the dead woman, she mumbles, just

barely audibly, a melody.

16.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM/OFFICE - BAINBRIDGE - DAY

Distant music of children's laughter. Perhaps real, emanating

from outside; perhaps imagined, remembered, playing in a remote

region of the woman's damaged mind. Arrested of all movement,

she stares, transfixed, at the blades of a fan.

If she does, she gives no indication. No word or gesture. No

change of expression on her mask of a face. She is elsewhere

(or nowhere), cut adrift by her illness, living in a private

world (or hell).

Sayer, wearing a white lab coat, tries to read her eyes.

Behind thick lenses, uncleaned for weeks or months, the eyes

are inscrutable.                                         .

16.CONT.                                                            16.

Sayer reaches to her face and carefully pulls the glasses from

it. He cleans them with a flap of his lab coat -- they are

loose, bent out of shape*-- and gently slides the temples back

over her ears.

He turns away from her and types at a manual Underwood. The

form in the machine, at the top, reads -- BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL /

ADMISSIONS / CONSULTATION REQUEST / NEUROLOGY. Sayer types in

a lower section headed -- FINDINGS / DIAGNOSIS.

He turns back in his chair to find the woman doubled-over in

her wheelchair, one arm very close to the floor, the hand

clutching the glasses. She is not moving, but she has moved.

That, or she is dead.

Sayer rights her, takes the glasses from her hand and slips

them back onto her face. He studies her for a moment, and for

that moment remains as still, as entranced, as her.

He takes the glasses from her face again and sets them on the

floor. He waits. She doesn't retrieve them. He picks them up

and holds them out to her. She doesn't move to take them. He

lets go of them and she lunges forward, catching them the

instant before they hit the floor. Sayer just stares.

16B.    INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE EXAMINATION ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON   16B.

Dr. Kaufman, the hospital's Chief of Medicine, notices a number

of patients lined up in their wheelchairs as he passes them on

his way into Sayer's examination room -

17.    INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON                       17.

The same room as before. The same woman. All that has changed

is the light. It's late afternoon.

Kaufman tries to feign interest. He glances to the others         1

Sayer has summoned to the room -- two other doctors, Tyler and

Sullivan, and Miss Costello.

Without any warning whatsoever Sayer tosses a tennis ball at

her. Her hand suddenly jerks up out of her lap and catches it.

And stays there, stiff, still.

Sayer is delighted but the expression on Kaufman's face is that

of one who has long ago learned and tired of simple card

tricks. Dismissing the phenomenon --

Kaufman, understandably, takes some offense at the comment.

Sayer, however, is unaware that he has caused any.

Awkward silence.    Eventually--

Sayer nods. Kaufman and the other doctors concur with glances

that the theory and theorist are absurd.

Sullivan has better things to do and leaves the room.   So does

Tyler. Kaufman and Miss Costello remain.

C'\      Sayer climbs into his Toyota and, as he buckles his seat belt,

r

21.C0NT.                                                          21.

Sayer nods in agreement though he is not altogether as certain

of tne claim. They are in a ward crowded with many patients

who are mad, obviously and irretrievably so.

Sidney considers Sayer suspiciously ... then smiles slyly.        *

Sayer is taken aback. As is Sidney. One of them, and Sidney

believes he knows which, is lying or crazy.

Sidney, suddenly completely disoriented, withdraws.

22.   INT. STAFF CAFETERIA - BAINBRIDGE - DAY                    22.

Sayer in line with Drs. Tyler and Sullivan, both younger than      *

himself. He seems distracted, Sayer, lost in the color of the

beets on his tray. Or a thought.

Like George telling Lenny again about the rabbits:

fp\            Aquarium in the waiting room,

\_J)               George.                          ,

23.CONT,                       (continuity only)

Sidney turns to a patient, an elderly woman in a wheelchair

beside him. Her state resembles that of Lucy's, that is, she

appears to have no awareness of Sidney, Sayer, or anything else

in her environment. It is only now, in fact, as Sidney spoons

soup into her mouth, careful not to spill any, that Sayer

notices her.

sr^                                                   SAY    ER

(y--\                         I   f    it    ha p   pe n s     ag a   in ,     M r. Ti t ch , I

P~ -\    ask      e w p ai   n ti n    g, a s i f w ho e ve r w as wh e el in g i t s im             p ly le t g o o f

\TS?    the       c h ai r   and       t h i s i s wh e r e i t a n d i t s c a r g o h a p p        e n e d to c o m e

(P\   Borrows a section, returns with it, slides it under the pen and

o   An admission form, yellowed and brittle with age --

o

(>~s,       Sayer and Miss Costello walking to their cars.

fpl

fcuJ   All around him lay packing boxes, some empty, many not. The

*^^    books are out at least - many of a medical nature, many others

Q

He taps a finger at the files - the patients' medical histories

prior to admission - forms listing childhood diseases and

ailments. The janitor, having no idea of course what he means,

retreats with his pail and mop, closing the door.

36A. EXT. MEDICAL LIBRARY, NEW YORK - ESTABLISH - DAY            36A.

37.   INT. MEDICAL LIBRARY, NEW YORK - DAY                         37.

Sayer displays what he has written on the back of his hand to

an assistant librarian: NEJM 4-6-35.

38.   INT. MEDICAL LIBRARY - LATER - DAY    .                      38.

A microfilm machine. Sayer manipulating its levers and

eventually finding what he's after, an article titled:

ENCEPHALITIS LETHARGICA, TEN YEARS LATER.

Accompanying the text are grainy black and white photographs

taken in an old operating theatre. An anatomical skeleton, a

doctor in a white coat, subjects-- men, women and children

with haunting eyes.

39.   EXT. RESIDENTIAL GARDEN, NEW YORK - DAY                      39.

Close on the doctor from the photographs - ancient and ill.

He's in a small unkept rose garden. With Sayer.                         *

No te: To g et c lear anc e fr om t he N ew En gla nd Jo urn al of *

Medicine, we must indicate that it is a weekly publication, *

which is why the "6th" has been added.                             *

He smiles at a thought, at once wistful and bitter.

He buries his face into his mask, manages to get some deep

breaths into his lungs and shakes his head at Sayer.

He lights a cigarette, coughs and puts it out.

The old doctor nods. He has the torn look of someone reminded

of an unfaithful lover just when he'd managed to forget about

her. He wants and doesn't want to know how they're doing.

Finally --

o   40.   INT. OLD DOCTOR'S STUDY - DAY                               40

0               They're not. The virus didn't   :

4OB. INT. WARD 5 DAYROOM - DAY                                   4OB

The hand of an otherwise still-life man snaps to catch the

ball. Sayer nods to an orderly who wheels him out past younger

patients, Ward 5's residents.

40C. INT. CORRIDOR - DAY                                          40C

The ball glances off the face of a nan who turns in his

wheelchair and glares at Sayer.

41.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - LATER - DAY

Sayer has assembled them all, the fourteen or fifteen he has

decided are post-encephalitics, and wanders among them like a

naturalist in a garden of stone.

He lifts an arm of one particularly remote male patient.   It

remains suspended, doll-like.

He tries to follow the trajectory of another's gaze.   It leads

He considers another who appears "deeply involved" in some

minute and curious activity with his twisted hands, a kind of

tearing, shredding motion.

Across the room, paying no attention to Sayer, are Sidney and

Lolly. He's gently brushing her hair.

Sayer manages a pen into the hand of another woman and she

"draws" a kind a kind of circular shape that spirals in on

itself until it reaches a "vanishing point" in the center.

42.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER - DAY                         42.

The results of standard perception tests scotch-taped to a wall

of the examination room.

Sayer and Miss Costello, like visitors to a museum, consider

each for a moment before moving onto the next.

Printed in the left column of each are a circle, square,

triangle and daisy. In the right are the post-encephalitics'

failed "attempts" to copy them.

Sayer keeps coming back to one in particular. Unlike the

others which, if you use your imagination, vaguely correspond

somewhat positionally to the pre-printed shapes, this one bears

no resemblance. This patient has instead scrawled over the

shapes, seemingly violently.

Miss Costello joins Sayer and ponders it along with him.

Eventually, as if to excuse it and its maker--

Sayer keeps studying it.

He isn't really asking her to answer, which is fine with her

since she doubts equally both hypotheses.

She doesn't say it but it's clear she thinks Sayer is reading

far too much into the "badness" of the patient's scrawl. To

himself -

He leans closer to see the typed name . . .

43.   INT. LEONARD'S WARD - DAY                                      43.

The painting of the Western town from the prologue - saloon,

livery stable, sunset. Below it, in his wheelchair, Leonard.

His face is unlined and passive, like a mask. His body is

still, like the dead.

Leonard's mother, a woman of seventy or so, is combing her

son's hair, being careful to get the part straight.

Finished with his hair, she wheels him from the sleeping ward         *

and into the -

43A.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - CONTINUOUS - DAY                     43A

Sayer, trailing after Mrs. Lowe and her sonr becomes

momentarily distracted by Lucy, the most recently arrived post-

encephalitic, the one he tried unsuccessfully to coax to the

drinking fountain. She is there again, "stuck" at the same

point, angled toward the fountain but unable to reach it.

Sayer brings her a cup of water and rejoins Mrs. Lowe.       -

Sayer shows her the perception test "drawing** Leonard made.

She glances back to Sayer who nods uncertainly. She recognizes.

the look on his face; she's seen it before on the faces of more

doctors than she cares to remember.                 '         f

Sayer can't bring himself to agree with her.

No longer having any use for him, she pointedly ignores him.

Taking the hint, Sayer's wanders off, past Lucy, looking like a

statue, holding the paper cup he brought her.

43B. EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING (MRS. LOWE'S) - ESTABLISH - NIGHT    43B.

44.   INT. MRS. LOWE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                               44

The door opens from the inside revealing Sayer in street

clothes. Judging from the look on Mrs. Lowe's face, he has

arrived unannounced.

44A. INT. MRS. LOWE'S APARTMENT - LEONARD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT          44A.

An old photograph. A sixth grade class picture from 1930?,

Moving slowly across the young faces to Leonard, eleven, at the

end of a row.

They're in Leonard's old bedroom, Sayer and Mrs. Lowe. Except

for the Western painting that's missing, nothing has changed in

it in thirty years.

He slowly got worse. He'd be

talking, suddenly he'd come to a

stop. After a few seconds he'd

finish what he was saying like

nothing happened, but these

standstills got longer. Sometimes

he'd call to me and I'd come in

and find him at his desk in a

trance. An hour, two hours. Then

he'd be okay again.

Sayer glances around the room.    It's been preserved, like a

shrine.

She pictures the moment in her mind, and waits, it seems, for

the young Leonard to speak, to tell her what it is he wants.

Finally she lowers her arm and shrugs.

Sayer glances away from her to the room itself again.

She smiles to herself, proudly it seems.

45.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - BAINBRIDGE - DAY                   45

Leonard's face in shadow. Wires emerging from his scalp. A

sluggish EEG pattern.

A blinding flash from a strobe.suddenly lights up the room.

The pupils of Leonard's eyes shrink, but his EEG remains

stuporously slow.

45A. EXT. RESEARCH LAB, NEW YORK - ESTABLISH - DAY              45A.

46.   INT. RESEARCH LAB - DAY                                    46

A monkey flipping switches on a panel built into a laboratory

room, searching for a sequence.

In an observation booth, years of collected data - charts and

graphs, EEG's and notes.

There, Dr. Mann, a contemporary of Sayer's, stares at Sayer      Ay

curiously. Eventually he manages --

Mann just stares. He's a scientist, they both are, and the

idea of Sayer working with living people, rather than expired

ones laid out on the pathology table, is inconceivable to him.

Sayer hasn't an answer for him.

Sayer glances away to Hank the monkey, watches him. Mann

studies Sayer, chagrined and incredulous.

He slaps him angrily across the shoulders with some papers.

The monkey completes a complex sequence which opens a chamber

revealing an electric train. The animal jumps and hoots with

wild glee. Sayer reaches out and presses the button on the

stop watch dangling from Mann's neck.

48.   INT. RESEARCH LAB - LATER - DAY                                48

Rats in cages, wired up, manipulating elaborate series of

ladders and pulleys, traversing catwalks, or ratwalks, leading

to glucose rewards.

While Mann, with something less than great enthusiasm,

considers an EEG Sayer has brought, his monkey drags toys over

to Sayer and tries to engage him in play. One of the toys is

an Ouija Board.

The monkey obediently goes off in search of a deck of cards.

Gesturing at patterns on the EEG --

He shrugs, lays out a second EEG, and gestures at patterns on

it --

Mann thinks Sayer is kidding. He isn't.

Sayer nods. Mann tries, without success, to make some sort of

sense out of that.

Mann studies the "waking" EEC     He points to its one and only

large electrical peak.                     ;

Sayer indicates a flat section of the pattern where there is

scribbled in pencil a small "s."

Mann stares rather dumbly at Sayer. Then at Hank the monkey on

the floor dealing solitaire.

49. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                                  49

Tight on Leonard. Something blurs past him but his eyes don't

follow it. Pulling back, the object blurs by again from the

other direction.

Tight on Sayer. The thing blurs past his face. His eyes don't

follow it either. Pulling back, it blurs again.

A circle of patients in wheelchairs. The post-encephalitics

reunited. "Waking" just long enough to catch and release the

object, a small beach ball.

Leonard and Sayer, on opposite sides of the circle, ignoring

the ball and the other patients. He's reached a dead end,

Sayer, right where he began, his only "accomplishment,"

this, ball-catching patients.

50.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY                                   50.

Sayer alone in the examination room, tired, at its window

staring blankly out.

His perspective: The empty lot below littered with abandoned

couches, refrigerators, rusting automobile carcasses.

And beyond the lot, the elementary school playground. Laughing

children on swings and slides. Jumping rope. Batting tether

balls. Playing hopscotch.

Moving slowly in on one of the hopscotch games. On a girl

tossing a bean bag into a square. Jumping over it and into the

next square. Turning and jumping back. Balancing on one foot.

Retrieving the bean bag and tossing it down again. Into the

next square of the tile pattern chalked on the asphalt.

51.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                                  51.

From above, patients in wheelchairs dot the black and white

checkerboard linoleum-tile floor like chess pieces. The

pattern is regular to a point but then breaks up -- is

interrupted by an area of solid white, where a wall once stood

-- before being restored. It forms a kind of narrow "sea," the

white area, on either side of which lies "land."

At floor level Sayer and Miss Costello, on their hands and

knees, are "blacking in" the missing tiles with shoe polish,

"bridging" the gap between the two checkerboards. The retarded

patients around them ignore them. The ward nurses pretend to. '

Completing the pattern Sayer glances across the room to

Leonard. He seems to be "watching." His mother, nearby, idly

thumbing through a magazine as she brings Leonard up to date on

neighborhood news, isn't.

Sayer crosses to Lucy. Lifts her gently out of her chair.

Points her in the direction of the drinking fountain.

She begins to move. To step slowly over each tile. She

reaches the "bridge" and hesitates. Then crosses it.

Sayer doesn't know whether to applaud or cry. He does neither,

burying his emotions behind a professional mask instead, and

watches as Lucy, "delivered" to the other side, free now, lets

the regularity of the pattern guide her toward the fountain.

She nears it. She is almost there. Then she is. there. But

doesn't drink. Doesn't stop. She continues past it . . .

To a window, the window bevond the drinking fountain which

Sayer hadn't noticed before, had no reason to notice, had no

need to notice, with a broken pane allowing a view to the

outside.

She stares out at the traffic below, in hopes no doubt of

figuring out where she is.

And Sayer's eyes, behind which exhilaration and horror rise up,

shift from her to Miss Costello, and then to Leonard, in whose

mask of a face Sayer thinks he sees a faint glimmer.

These people are alive inside.

52.   INT. DAYROOM (B) - DAY

A soap opera on a portable black and white TV in a narrow

passageway of a nurses' station. Beyond.it, beyond a glass

partition, a crowded idle dayroom.

Miss Costello crosses into and out of view and reappears

moments later next to the TV. She switches it off and turns to

face the three RNs who were watching it. In their defense --

She hands a book to the nurse who spoke (MARGARET), a first

edition worn /rom many readings. Margaret glances from it to

the other nurses and back to Miss Costello.

53.   INT. DAYROOM (B) - LATER - DAY                                   53

The nurse holds the book like it's something quite foreign to

her. She finds the beginning of the first chapter, clears her

throat, and reads --

She glances up at her audience: three blank-faced post-          ,55

encephalitics. Miss Costello, who is nearby, nods to her to

continue. She clears her throat again, and, feeling like a

fool, reads --

Miss Costello leaves.

54.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY

Leonard's head locked on his shoulders at an improbable angle

that forces his entranced gaze upward to a point well above

Sayer.

55.   INT. SAYER'S HOUSE - MORNING   "                               55

Tight on Sayer pulling record albums from his extensive

classical collection.

56.   INT. DAYROOM (D) - DAY                                         56

An.old box-style phonograph. The kind whose top is also a

detachable speaker.

An orderly, Fernando, dusts it off, rigs it, takes the record

Miss Costello holds out to him, gets it spinning, and sets the

needle down.

Opera music. For the "enjoyment" of two more post-

encephalitics. The eyes of one narrow slightly, almost

imperceptibly.                         -.

57.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY                                    57

The keys of Sayer's old manual Underwood typewriter. And

Leonard's claw of a hand hanging over them like one of those

unmanageable penny arcade cranes.

Leonard's hand remains still, suspended above the keys, for

what seems an eternity.

58.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                                         58.

Under Miss Costello's supervision, maintenance men remove the

gratings from the windows and washhthe panes.

59.

30's jazz music. The orderly from before with "his" two post-

encephalitics. Each has a tray of cafeteria food, but only one

is eating, and mechanically at that.                                FERNANDO

The moment Fernando takes the record off, Rose stops eating,

stops moving. The orderly puts on Mozart and waits. Neither

patient moves.

59A. INT. CORRIDOR - DAY                                           '     59A.

A " no r ma l" pa t ie nt wi t h m ul t ip le sc l er os is h as ma na g ed to

inte rcep t S ayer on hi s w ay some wher e el se, his ar ms f ull wit h

an 8mm camera and tripod and screen.

60.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY                                  6

Leonard in his wheelchair, absolutely motionless. Sayer behind

the lens of the 8mm camera on the tripod. Drs. Tyler and

Sullivan, at the doorway, watch with some amusement.

60A. INT. DAYROOM (A) - DAY                                       60A

Miss Costello wheels the man who shreds invisible things to a

window and places a piece of toast from a tray into his hands.

He tears at it, the crumbs sailing out onto a landing, and a

flock of pigeons swoops up.

61.   INT. DAYROOM (C) - DAY                                      61

Three post-encephalitics with cards in their hands and the best

poker faces you ever saw.                :

Sayer watches her pull a card from one of their hands and place

it on the table. All three "wake" and begin throwing down

cards, one after another.

62.   OMITTED                               ,

63.   INT. CORRIDOR / DAYROOM (B) - DAY                            6

Sayer moving past "normal" patients lined up in the hall like

planes on tarmac. Suddenly, from a dayroom, booms the opening

bass line of Hendrix's "Foxy Lady."

63.CONT.                      .. ..                   ,,    .     ,,                    63.

Sa ye r pe er s cu ri ou sl y i nt o th e    ro om . B er t is ea ti ng a nd

An tho ny is g rin nin g. He see s S         aye r i n t he d oor way an d s ends

him a s elf -sa tis fied th umb s-u p        s ign.

64.    INT . DAY ROOM (C) - DAY                                                           64.

Mi ss C os te ll o si tt in g wi t h a po st -e nc ep ha li ti c m an . (F RA NK )

She t ouc he s the m an' s ha nd, h old s it , a nd hi s he ad sl owl y tu rns

to fa ce her.

Sh e pu ll s hi m ge nt ly t o h is if ee t an d wa lk s wi t h hi m a fe w

steps.                                                                                   .

They wa lk a f ew more st eps an d t ears be gin to fo rm i n M iss

Coste llo's eyes .

Sa ye r, to o, is m ov ed. But a s he wa tch es M iss C ost el lo an d her

p at ie nt w al k aw ay , hi s e xp re ss io n ch an ge s; s om e th in g sh e ha s

sa id o r do ne h as s tr uc k a c ho rd , or u nl oc ke d a d oo r:

Close on their hands . . .

65.    OM IT TE D    -                                                                    65.

66.    IN T. BAI NBRI DGE - NIG HT                                                        66.

Em pt y cor ri dor .     E cho in g f oo ts tep s.

67.    IN T. LEO NARD 'S WAR D - NI GHT                                                   67.

Le o na r d .   T uc k ed i n b u t " a wa k e. " St a r in g a t th e ce i li n g .

68.   INT. LEONARD'S WARD - LATER - NIGHT                               68.

In a far corner of the darkened ward, in a pool of lamp light,

two silhouetted figures. Sayer and Leonard. Sleeping patients

all around them.

Sayer carefully, awkwardly, places   his hand on Leonard's.

After a moment, the contact brings   the useless appendage "to

life." As it slowly turns over and   grasps the doctor's hand, a

glimmer of life seems to appear in   Leonard's eyes as well.

Sayer, unfamiliar, it seems, with the feeling the contact

produces in him, nonetheless places his other hand on Leonard's

other. Soon it too turns and holds onto Sayer's.

The doctor draws both of Leonard's hands toward him and sets

them down on the pointer of an Ouija Board.

look on his face is "thoughtful." The look on Sayer's, hopeful

and foolish.

The pointer begins to slowly move past stars and moons.

Judging from Sayer's expression he begins to feel Leonard's

movement of it and, presumably, stops his own.

The pointer moves across the letters, but passes the "L"

without stopping. It stops on the "R."

The pointer begins moving again, "interrupting" Sayer.      It

passes the "L" again, reaches the "I" and stops.

Keeping one hand on the moving pointer, Sayer fumbles a pen

from his shirt pocket and scribbles on his lab coat what

Leonard has and is continuing to "write":

69.    INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - NIGHT

Sayer alone in the examining room, standing over his desk.           The

lab coat is on it. And on it is scrawled:

He has to study it only a moment before he sees the meaning of

it; he quickly scratches out the last four letters,and adds a

slash between the "S" and the "P," so that it reads:

69A. EXT. PUBLIC LIBRARY. - ESTABLISH - DAY                                69

70.    INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY                      '                    7

.reads:

71.    INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - LATER - DAY                  .     .,         7

Moving slowly in on Sayer at one of the library tables with a V            .

book.        ,                                         ..

72.                                                                      72.

Moving slowly into the Western painting.

72A. EXT. BRONX ZOO - DAY                                               72A.

Moving in on a panther, limbs weakened, spirit broken, slowly

pacing back and forth before the bars of a small cage.

the place is virtually deserted.

73.   INT. LEONARD'S WARD - DAY                                          73.

Moving slowly in on Leonard as, in bed, flannel pajamas, as his

mother diapers him for the night.

Moving slowly                         SAYER V.O.

73A. EXT. AUDITORIUM - NEW YORK - AFTERNOON                       73A.

Professional and    professorial types filing in past a placard,

an enlargement of    an article from the Journal of Neurochemistry

titled: LEVADOPA     IN THE TREATMENT OF PARKINSONISM. Below it:

A DISCUSSION WITH    MARTIN S. THOMAS, PH.D.

There's excitement (and jealousy) in the air.

74.   INT. AUDITORIUM - AFTERNOON                                74

An anatomical skeleton dangling from a metal stand.

A man at a podium in a modern version of the 1920's basement

operating theatre.

He glances to a point above his listeners, and an overhead

projector splashes a diagram of molecular structure (and the

silhouette of a raised hand) onto a screen. The neurochemist

traces the shadow to its maker in the audience.

Sayer glances around the auditorium. Everyone's looking at

him. He grasps the offending hand and holds it in his lap with

the other.

75.   INT. AUDITORIUM LOBBY - LATER - AFTERNOON                  75,

Refreshments on tables. Sayer, uncomfortable in his suit,

wandering around the crowded room with a glass of wine. He

approaches its hub of activity, the neurochemist surrounded by

several impressed colleagues, but can't manage to get close

enough to speak with him.

76.   INT. MEN'S ROOM, AUDITORIUM - LATER - AFTERNOON             7

The neurochemist walks in and crosses to the urinals. A moment

later, he hears the door opening, and footsteps, and then

nothing, until --

When no one answers, the chemist glances over his shoulder.

Sayer is there, quite alone, looking at him.

Sayer is. And really wants to know the answer. The chemist

zips up and moves to the sinks to wash his hands.

He comes to a abrupt stop, his eyes transfixed like a post-

encephalitic's, staring. The chemist slowly dries his hands

with a paper towel.

He drops the paper towel into the trash and leaves

77.   EXT. PARKING LOT - BAINBRIDGE - MORNING                 77

Emerging from his car with some papers, Dr. Kaufman is ambushed

by Sayer.                                                  ..

77.CONT.              SAYER                                       77.

Sayer has to hurry to keep up with his supervisor as he heads

toward the hospital.

He hands over the papers - xeroxed articles from medical

journals and newspapers which Sayer gave him to read - and

keeps going, Sayer straggling a few steps back.

The gap between them widens as Sayer slows. He expected this

sort of reaction from Kaufman, but had hoped for another.

Kaufman disappears into the building.

77A. INT. KAUFMAN'S OFFICE - LATER - MORNING                       77A

The stack of papers drops onto Kaufman's desk. The one on top

reads, NEW DRUG LETS SHAKING PALSY PATIENTS EAT JELL-O.

Kaufman, on the phone, glances to Sayer long-sufferingly, lets

him wait while he finishes with his call, and eventually sets

down the receiver.

r..iiJi!                And what if this drug were to

Q

78.CONT.              SAYER

She doesn't understand what he means; there's no reason why she

should.

(O                         MRS. LOWE

^,-N    . Ray tosses Sayer a look that says, "don't push it." Sayer

\0     " n od s .                   ."'          "

84.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                                   84.

Another empty milk glass. Leonard, stoic, or     so it seems, in

his wheelchair. His mother and Sayer and Miss     Costello waiting

for a movement, a change of expression, a sign    of any kind that

something is happening inside him. But there's   nothing . . .

85.   INT. BAINBRIDGE - NIGHT                                        85.

A corridor. Mrs. Lowe is leaving.    Sayer is with her, seeing *

her to the door.

Neither really knows what else to say except for good night.

She leaves.

86.   INT. LEONARD'S WARD - NIGHT                                    86.

Sayer and Miss Costello lift Leonard out of his wheelchair and

into his bed.

They nod "good night" atT each other and Miss Costello leaves.

Sayer slumps into Leonard's wheelchair. lAnd waits.

87.   INT. THE PHARMACY - NIGHT                                      87.

Ray has gonejhome, too. Sayer, alone in the pharmacy, measures

out 1000 milligrams, ten times the original dose.

88.   INT. LEONARD'S WARD - NIGHT                                    88.

Sayer at Leonard's bedside, holding the glass to Leonard's

lips, draining the liquid into him, all of it.

89.   INT. LEONARD'S WARD - LATER - NIGHT      .                   8

Sayer asleep in the wheelchair. He stirs. Wakes. And takes a

moment to remind himself where he is. And why. His eyes

narrow, uncomprehending.

Leonard's bed is empty.

90.   INT. DAYROOM - LATER - NIGHT

A claw of a hand dragging a crayon across a sheet of paper.

Tight on Sayer, framed in a doorway, as still and silent and

entranced as a post-encephalitic.

His perspective of the dayroom -- deserted except for a figure,

a patient, Leonard, hunched over the table.

As Sayer crosses toward him, Leonard's head slowly rises.

Sayer sits opposite him and they consider each other in silence

for several moments.

Leonard struggles to speak, to form words. They come out in a

halting cadence, flat, without inflection, and are only barely .

recognizable as words:                   .

Though he nods, it's unclear whether Leonard realizes how

significant that is. Sayer gestures at the piece of paper

beneath Leonard's hands.

Sayer draws the paper across the table. It's covered with what

seems imponderable hieroglyphic-like scrawl. But there is

order in the chaos. Letters. Leonard's name.

91.    INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAWN                                 91

Alone in the room, Leonard moves slowly around it, feeling

things: the smoothness of the cabinet glass/ the warmth thrown

by a desk lamp, water from the cooler splashing onto his hand.

Leonard turns to Sayer's voice with an expression of child-like       ,

wonder on his face.

She appears in the doorway of the room. She's done her hair,

her face, she's put on a nice dress, yet she remains unprepared

for this reunion. She can do nothing but stare at her "infant

son" who is now, "suddenly," a man.

As he slowly crosses toward her, she is struck by the fact she

must look u in order to meet his eyes. He reaches her.

Reaches out to her. And she embraces him.

92.    INT. CORRIDOR - MORNING                                     .92.

go and nothing much to do.

Leonard, standing, reaches for her hand and struggles to

pronounce her name correctly. Fighting to keep from crying in

front of him, Miss Costello glances to Sayer and Mrs. Lowe.

9.3.   INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR - MORNING

Miss Costello, flanked by Sayer and Mrs. Lowe, watches as

Leonard extends his hand to the "card playing nurse."

o   94.   INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR - MORNING                              9

Sayer's smile fades. The possibility that Leonard might not

have realized the extent of the passage of time had not, until

Sayer nods uncertainly.

97.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER - DAY

Sayer demonstrates a clapping motion. Leonard repeats it more

slowly but with decent motor control.

Sayer makes a note. They are alone in the examination room

which, like most of the hospital, has little in it to indicate

that it is not the 1930's.

Leonard walks slowly across the room past the perception tests

and notes and Polaroids cluttering the wall. Coming back, he

pauses. He's looking at a picture of himself taped there.

Sayer watches him slowly reach his hands to his face to feel

his features. He stares at the photograph of himself, trying

to comprehend that which cannot be comprehended.

He's not younjg anymore.

98.   OMITTED

99.   INT. LEONARD'S WARD - NIGHT                                 99.

Sayer and Mrs. Lowe at Leonard's bedside.

(y\              I close my eyes . . .

1J              first?                                       ..

101A. EXT. BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL - DAY                              101A

Sayer and Leonard emerge from the hospital and move under trees

along a path toward the parking lot. At a point, the doctor

realizes his patient is no longer at his side; he's several

steps back, feeling the sunshine on his skin.

(p\

106.   INT. SAYER'S CAR - MOVING - DAY                            106

Leonard turns the radio dial from the classical station to

another playing a very different kind of music, and listens to

it bemused but intrigued. It's John Lennon singing "A DAY IN

THE LIFE"

and it CONTINUES OVER:

107.   EXT. PARK - THE BRONX - LATER - DAY                        107

Children playing flag-football on an expanse of grass. Dogs

running around, nannies with prams, lovers.

A disk, a frisbee, falls at Leonard's feet. He retrieves it

but has no idea what it is or what to do with it. Sayer

demonstrates the wrist action with an invisible one. Leonard

doesn't get it. Sayer takes it from him and flings it

pathetically not halfway back to its owners.

The music CONTINUES OVER:

108.   EXT. STREET CORNER JOINT - THE BRONX - LATER - DAY        108.

Leonard watches with interest a Carvel ice cream machine. He

and Sayer are handed cones and Leonard's attention moves to a

girl wearing an unbelievably short skirt.

Her boyfriend stares at Leonard. Sayer tries to pull his

charge's attention elsewhere. Leonard, finally, glances away,

up, to a sound overhead.

The music CONTINUES OVER:

109.   EXT. KENNEDY AIRPORT - DAY

A 747 roaring down a runway. At the edge of it, it lifts off

and thunders over Sayer and Leonard and the parked Toyota.

Exhilerated, Leonard waves.

The music CONTINUES OVER:

110.   OMITTED                                                    110

111.   EXT. THE BRONX / CITY ISLAND - DAY                         111

An expressway. The Toyota traveling at "astounding" speed,

passing a sign that reads CITY ISLAND.

w   '..                     .         '

Q   sipping their tea.       *

* It seems to Sayer a non sequitor.                                        *

He smiles. Sips his tea. Silence except for the ticking of a           *

clock somewhere. Then, very matter of factly -

He shrugs. Silence again.

Sayer stares at him blankly. He doesn't seem to know who

"Eleanor11 is.                                .                            *

-~                   Eleanor?

^r *                           LEONARD

/til**)    silence grows awkward.                                 7

z^                   When you say expensive, what are

CD   Kaufman glances down. She has left a Bainbridge payroll check )\cz>

Sayer glances to Miss Costello.   She nods, "Good, that's

better."

Tight on the screen, on Leonard, as he was. Looking more like

a photograph of a man than a motion picture of one.

The "before picture" of Leonard on the screen is replaced with

the "after" -- his eyes alert, his hands exploring a desk

microphone. He glances up and off at something.

He seems to withdraw, to wrestle with the thought, to try to

somehow come to terms with it, to somehow resolve it. He nods

as he finds within himself some source of strength and looks

directly at the camera.

117.   INT. BOARD ROOM, LATER - NIGHT                            117

The lights are on, the screen rolled up, the board members and

patrons visibly moved, almost shaken, and silent.

Eventually one of the patrons, an old woman, reaches into her

purse for her checkbook and a pen. Another patron, an elderly

man, pulls a checkbook and pen from an inside jacket pocket.

Another already has hers out in front of her ...

Sayer and Miss Costello exchange a glance. The room is

absolutely silent, except for the muted scratch of pens on

paper.

118.   INT. THE PHARMACY - DAY

The raw L-Dopa powder, 20,000 dollars worth, has arrived. It

sits on a pharmacy counter in large clear bags. Sayer and Ray

peer between racks of medicine at two teenage girls and two

very old men chatting in a corner of the pharmacy.

119.   OMITTED

120.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                              120.

Several empty medicine paper-cups. The "garden of stone,"

reassembled. Sayer knows better than to sit and wait, that

nothing is going to immediately happen, but he sits and waits

anyway. As does Miss Costello. As does Leonard and his

mother.

121.   INT. STAFF ROOM - NIGHT               .                   121

Sayer asleep on a couch that's too short for him. Miss

Costello asleep on another.

Sayer wakes to find a night nurse standing over him.

121. CONT.                                                             121.

121A. INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT                                            121A.

They move along a silent corridor that seems to stretch out

forever -- the doctor, the two nurses -- carrying themselves

professionally, with sobriety and restraint. But as they near

the ward, as they're joined by others, other nurses, orderlies,

their steps and hearts quicken. They break into a trot.

122.     INT. LEONARD'S WARD - MOMENTS LATER - NIGHT

They appear at the threshold, Sayer, Miss Costello, the night

nurse, the others, and peer into the darkened room:

In the quiet, in the shadows, in the moonlight filtering in

through the windows, the post-encephalitics are emerging from

their "cocoons," rising from the "dead" like Lazarus from the

earth, reborn.

Moving slowly past the beds: A figure rediscovering the

feeling of her skin; another, the sound of his breath; another,'

the beating of her heart.

A figure still asleep . . . wakes. And for the first time in

nearly half a century sees herself in the world.

Tight on Sayer, on the look of awe on his face as he stares at

the scene going on in the darkened ward. His glance finds

Leonard who is sitting up in his bed, smiling.

123.     INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                                      123,

Tight on Lucy's face, deep in thought, lost in thought. After

several moments of silence, she speaks -

.,:,      . :... .        ,.LUCY    V    .   .       *   .-..        .

A cacophony   of off-screen voices - from a radio, the

television,   and the awakened post-encephalitics themselves -

rises up as   another woman, Miriam, moves past Lucy's face. We

follow her,   as does a nurse with a blood pressure guage on

wheels.                                    ,

123.CONT.             NURSE                                           12

Miriam and the nurse trailing after her pass in front of a man *

with no English (Josef) trying to explain something to a couple

of orderlies. One to the other -   .

Nearby, another man. This one does speak English -

Anthony turns away with the tray he just brought in - broth,

jello and juice - and carries it away, passing the "card

playing nurse," Margaret.

Having settled on Margaret: she smiles, glances to "her"

patient, Rose, who, staring at her reflection in a hand mirror,

tugs at her grey hair.

123.CONT.                                          -                                      123

Sh e p ull s at he r f ade d s hape les s d res s w ith gre at dis dai n.

A be wi ld er ed m an o n st if f l eg s (F RA NK ) wa lk s by . Fo ll ow in g

h im , we c at c h a gl i m ps e of a D u tc h wo m an i n a wh e el c h ai r , w i t h

a nurse -

- be f or e se t t li n g o n M i s s C o st e ll o wi t h a ma n wh o se e ms l os t in

a w or ld o f hi s ow n, h is he ad n od di ng s li gh tl y t o mu si c fr om a n

unseen radio.

Ap p a r e nt l y n ot . A fi g u r e bl u r s pa s t . An d a m om e n t la t e r ,

an oth er, t he nu rse w ith t he pr ess ure g auge , sti ll tr ail ing

af te r Mi ri am. T he c ame ra f ol low s th em -

- befor e set tling on a man , Des mond, doin g a soft- shoe.

Le on ar d, a nd a f ew o th e rs , wa tc h. Fr an k bl ur s b y ag ai n, p as se s

a w oman , Fra ncis, sort of l ost, seat ed Wi th a nurse :

Mi ss C os te ll o no ti ce s F ra nk , st an di ng n ea rb y, lo ok in g pu zz le d.

123.CONT.                                                          123.

Hiss Costello finds herself at a loss for a moment . . .

Lucy again, Sayer still at her side.

She smiles. Sayer tries to. He hesitates ... but finally

can't help asking her -

He shakes his head 'no.' She glances around the place, then

leans close to him and whispers -

Sayer turns to the urgent voice, concerned, and sees Miriam

flanked by a large group of staff from other parts of the

hospital gathered at the threshold of the room.

The group at the doorway applauds, and it CARRIES OVER:

123A. OMITTED                                              123A.

123B. INT- CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - DAY                      123B. *

The corridor, and the sound of a woman's voice, very faint,   .*

from somewhere unseen:                                           *

124.-128.    OMITTED                                           124.-12

129.   INT.'POST-ENCEPHALITIC DAYROOM - CONTINUED - MORNING      129.

Sidney bursts into the room out of breath and scans the faces

of the awakened post-encephalitics and staff. He spots Sayer,

seated with a woman, her back to him and the door. She slowly

turns to look over her shoulder and, seeing Sidney, smiles.

There's a kind of hush. Conversations, activities cease.

Everyone is looking at Sidney. Not knowing what else to say,

he manages a hesitant --

He smiles and crosses toward her, but by the time he reaches

her the smile has disappeared. Something troubling has

occurred to him. He glances to Sayer and whispers --

123B.CONT.                              ,                      123B

Leonard, moving along the corridor with Saver's camera and

tripod (or looking for something to read at the magazine table)

slows and listens:

He moves toward the voice, traces it to a crafts area, where a

young woman is reading from the sports page to an older man

tied to his wheelchair.

Though it's doubtful the man is even aware of her presence, she

reads to him as if her were, and in the process, draws Leonard

into the sound of her words until there are no sounds but her

words:

The reverie is suddenly shattered, the real sounds of the

hospital rising back up, as Sidney, wild with excitement, bangs

through the far doors of the corridor. He sprints past the

crafts area, past Leonard, runs the entire length of the

corridor, and -

124-128.   OMITTED

129.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - CONTINUED - DAY                    1

Sidney bursts into the room out of breath and scans the faces

of the awakened post-encephalitics and staff. He spots Sayer,

seated with a woman, her back to him and the door. She slowly

turns to look over her shoulder and, seeing Sidney, smiles.

There's a kind of hush. Conversations, activities cease.

Everyone is looking at Sidney. Not knowing what else to say,

he manages a hesitant --

A3                            MRS. LOWE

C -j               He's not the same kind of patient.

'(_J)               Let's go, already.

131.C0NT.                                .                        131

As the public bus pulls away, Leonard pats Sayer on the

shoulder.

He climbs the hospital steps and disappears inside, Sayer

staring after him. Miriam honks the horn again, and he climbs

aboard. The doors hiss shut and driver turns to him.

Sayer suddenly realizes he has no idea "where to." He glances

over his shoulder at the expectant faces of the patients, all

dressed up with nowhere to go. It's up to him . . .

His face brightens; he's thought of a good place.

132.   INT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - NEW YORK - DAY

Moving slowly toward a herd of still and silent elephants in a

cavernous, darkened room.

As a nun counts the heads of parochial school children filing

past the huge beasts, Miss Costello counts the heads of the

post-encephalitics.

Both come up short and glance frantically around.

132A. INT. ANOTHER ROOM - NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - DAY          132A.

A lifeless polar bear in a diorama "stares" out at Sayer who's

peering in, intrigued. Miss Costello appears at his side.

.,->,     She leads him away by the arm.

CO                                                          .          .

133A.CONT.                                    .                     133

He admits it with a nod, lags back again, and eventually dares       *

another glance at her.

She smiles and shakes her head 'no.1

134.   INT. PATIENTS' CAFETERIA- LATER - DAY

Leonard and Paula at a table. At other tables are patients who

do look like patients.

She smiles at the memory of her father like he was . . . but then   *

it's gone and her smile fades.

A slow nod from him . . .                                               *

His tone is that of someone speaking of a fact, rather than          *

offering an opinion. She studies him . . . and eventually:           *

'                   I receive medication.

,        She waits for more, but it doesn't come.           Only a smile.

,                   I'm okay now.

,   .   The post-encephalitics filing past still figures in African

,        ceremonial costumes and masks.

ti^                          SAYER

y5?.               Well, where else is there?

P

' (")

140.   OMITTED

Returning from their night out, happy and satisfied, the post-

encephalitics come down a quiet corridor, trailed by their

chaperons.

Passing the examination room, Sayer hears faint typing, and

slows.

142.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - MOMENTS LATER - NIGHT              14

Sayer steps into the room to find a figure hunched over his

typewriter in a pool of lamplight. Glancing over to the door,

the figure is revealed to be Leonard.

Leonard doesn't wait for the answer, returns to his typing.

Sayer comes closer.

He peers over Leonard's shoulder to read what he's typing, and

a slow smile crosses his face.

143.   INT. BOARD ROOM - DAY

Drifting slowly across the faces of Kaufman, the director and

the other board members as Sayer reads to them from a

typewritten sheet of paper --

Sayer sets the paper down on the table --

-- and listens to the silence.    It's a long one.

144.   INT. BASEMENT - BAINBRIDGE - DAY                          144.

Rumbling furnaces. The boiler room. Exposed conduit and pipes

and ducts on the ceiling like tangled roots of an enormous

metal tree.

,         muted drone of the furnaces. He feels as though he's been here

,    .   before. Maybe he has, long ago. Quietly ~

146.CONT.

146.CONT.                                                        146.

Listening to the music a moment more, she corrects herself:             *

Close on two nurses, across the room.

She's referring to Magda, who glances over as if sensing

they're talking about her. They drop their voices:

Lucy, wearing "stylish" new glasses, smiles as Sayer listens to

her heartbeat through a stethoscope. Satisfied with it, he

makes a notation in her chart.

He smiles uneasily.

Close on hands rapidly dealing 3-Card Monte. The cards

eventually settle, and the hand of someone else hesitates over

them before gingerly tapping one. As it's turned over:

dealer, a dextrous encephalitic, shrugs.

The orderly reaches to rake another dollar into his pile.                 *

There's a nice watch on the wrist. Luis smiles to himself.                *

Miriam waits, but Margaret doesn't immediately say it.                    *

Margaret almost grimaces, anticipating hysteria. Instead, a               *

slow smile crosses Miriam's face.                                         *

Pliers, tin snips and a pile of found objects on a table.                 *

Josef is there, fashioning strange and beautiful toys from the            *

junk.                                                                     *

Francis turns to find the nurse standing with a 20 year old               *

girl who's holding a toddler by the hand.                                 *

Francis smiles at the toddler, mistaking her for the daughter.            *

Francis' glance comes up to meet the 20 year old's, shifts down       *

to the toddler again, comes back up.                                   *

From across the room, Frank watches Francis hug her "actual               *

daughter," glances to Rose who has been reunited with a few old       *

o

146A.    INT. OPERATING THEATRE / LIBRARY - LATER - DAY            14 6A.

The anatomical skeleton being dragged across the flpor like the

lifeless thing that it is.

Paula steps aside as the guy goes past her and Leonard with the

rattling bones.

He's not exactly sure where everything is going to go, but he's

proud of it. Gesturing to the operating lamp hovering from

above like a giant spider

The thing is so unbelievably macabre they have to grimace.

Another mover comes past dollying out old: operating equipment.

147.    OMITTED

148.    INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY                                  148.

Mrs. Lowe, slowly pacing.

She casts around trying to come to terms with it.

She looks to Sayer for confirmation.        Sayer manages a nod.

Sayer "agrees" with a sympathetic nod, but suspects it is she

who would die if she left. She resumes pacing, and mutters to

herself the bitter-tasting word:

149.   INT. SAYER'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                 149.

Sayer in bed, asleep with a book on his chest and his

indestructible reading glasses on his face. The phone rings.

He groans and gropes for it, puts the receiver to his ear.

Sayer, more asleep than awake, can't be sure that what he's

hearing, who he's hearing, is real.

150.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - SAME TIME - NIGHT                  150.

Leonard, wide awake, alone in the room. He's seated at Sayer's

desk with Sayer's office phone to his ear.

Leonard waits for a reaction to his idea, his "Gospel According

to L-Dopa" lecture tour. Sayer can manage only an uncertain

nod.

153.   INT . THE PHAR MACY - DA Y    >                            153.

Amidst the thousands of bottles and jars of medicines, Sayer

wonders out loud to Ray --

The balance of the pharmaceutical scale wavers like the sword

of Damocles.

154.   OMITTED

155.   OMITTED                                                    155.

156.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - NIGHT                             156

A night janitor with a cleaning cart peers into the darkened

room at Leonard standing at a window looking out.

{V   That is a simple request.

^   160.   INT. PATIENTS' CAFETERIA - DAY

Leonard nods again, philosophically it seems.

Leonard gets up out of his chair --

-- and turns to leave.

Leonard ignores him and walks out --      :

161.   INT. CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER - DAY

Leonard striding down a corridor.    Sayer hurrying* after him.

Leonard ignores him.

Leonard disappears around a corner. Sayer veers off to a

hospital phone and picks it up. Into it -

162.   INT. CORRIDORS / LOBBY - DAY                                  162.

Faces of patients in wheelchairs blur as Leonard runs past

them. In another corridor faces blur as orderlies rush past

them. In another corridor faces blur as Sayer runs.

Leonard reaches the lobby just ahead of the orderlies. They

try to be gentle with him but when he fights to free himself it

it gets out of control. Sayer appears.

The orderlies don't know what to do. They're just trying to

restrain Leonard but he's making it almost impossible.

He keeps fighting. He can see the outside through the glass

doors, so close, so far.

They pull him back, away from the doors, into the corridor

behind them.         .

163.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY                                   163.

Tight on Sayer, staring at the floor, despondent.

Kaufman, too, is there, and Miss Costello. Kaufman watches            *

Sayer.

He seems to say it more for Kaufman's benefit; regardless, she

doesn't care for his tone.

fT~\                Of course.

166.   EXT. BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL - NIGHT *

Light glows in only a few of the windows.

In one, on the third floor, the examination room, a figure in        .*

silhouette (Sayer), stares out.

In another, on the fifth floor, a second figure in silhouette

(Leonard), behind bars, slowly paces.

166A. INT. WARD 5 DAYROOH - DAY                                  166A.

The blaring TV again. Suddenly the picture goes dark.

Leonard, who turned it off, climbs down off a chair and faces

the "somnambulant" men who were "watching."

Moving along their chairs he considers each much as Sayer

considered the post-encephalitic "garden of stone." Reaching

167-163. OMITTED                                                167-169

169A-. INT. ELEVATOR & CORRIDOR                                 169A.

The elevator door slides open revealing an orderly with several *

trays of untouched food on a cart. Kaufman steps in and the

door slides shut. Descending:

Kaufman nods distractedly, not really listening. The orderly

begins whistling a tune to himself. Kaufman glances over long-

sufferingly, quieting him. The door slides open, and the young

man wheels the cart past Kaufman. Finally:                     ~

The door slides shut.

(7~)   170.    OMITTED                                                       170

sj^                  (he doesn't know)

(^7             Whv are you here?

171.CONT.                                                             171.

Silence ... and suddenly, loudly, exploding:

The men erupt in a burst of noisy approval; they cone alive.

Tight on Kaufman on the other side of the "cage," watching.

And, over the din -

172.   INT.' KAUFMAN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Sayer and Kaufman alone in the room, arguing -

CD   172.CONT.             KAUFMAN                                        172.

173/174CONT.                        (continuity only)       173/174.

The patients stand their ground forming a kind of human barrier

which Sayer cannot get past.

Leonard, across the room, pacing slowly, glances over.

Leonard's "bodyguards" step aside. Sayer crosses to Leonard

and is greeted in a tone precisely that of master to servant,

very courteous yet unmistalcably condescending:

A strange gesture, a tic, appears and repeats.

Leonard abruptly extends his hand; it's a little twisted.              *

Sayer doesn't so much shake the hand as hold onto it.

r

Leonard tries to pull his hand away, but Sayer's grasp is               *

stronger.

Leonard yanks his hand free of Sayer's, and, in a torrent:

But Sayer is looking at him, moving back and forth against the

bars on a window, panther-like. He retaliates:

The remarks seem to have no effect on Leonard. He seems not to '

have heard them. But as Sayer takes a step closer, Leonard, *

without warning, lunges.                                        *

Sayer stumbles back and his glasses fall to the floor. He . '

scrambles to his feet, leaving them, and backs away from     *

Leonard's bodyguards who are slowly coming toward.him.

Orderlies get the cage unlocked and hustle Sayer out. As it *

slams shut again, he glances back in at Leonard, and hardly *

recognizes him.

174A. EXT. SAYERS HOUSE - NIGHT (ALREADY SHOT)                  174A.    *

Beyond the porch windows, Sayer can be seen slowly pacing the *

narrow width of his living room. Opera music blares           *

and CONTINUES OVER:                                                   .*

175.   INT. WARD 5 - LATER - NIGHT                                175.

Moving slowly past the sleeping forms of Ward 5 inhabitants.

And reaching and settling on a bed that's empty.

The opera music CONTINUES OVER:

176.   INT. SAYERS HOUSE - LATER - NIGHT                         176.

The record spinning. And Sayer at his desk, just sitting, his

"close work" glasses resting on a page of Ernst Heckle.

/T~-\       The opera music CONTINUES OVER:

&

Leonard remains in the shadows.   Eventually -

180.  INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                                      180.

Sayer has called together the ward staff, the other patients,

Kaufman and Ray.

He waits for the patients to acknowledge they understand. They

nod.

The patients glance away to the threshold of the room. Miss

Costello and Mrs. Lowe are escorting Leonard slowly in.

Anthony comes over, shakes his hand.     ,

The others come over, shake his hand and pat him on the back,             *

but all a little too gently, too concerned, like he might

break. Leonard manages a smile.

The others nod quickly in agreement. And the room falls into               *

silence.

CO   Anthony at the piano, playing, singing; the others echoing the

186-188. OMITTED                                                    186-188.

189.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY          *                          189.

The other patients at tables, painting.

Leonard at another table, with the sketches of his library. On

one showing the placement of tables and desks, he writes the

letters, " F L O W " before getting "stuck."

Tight on his face, his eyes, transfixed.

A cockroach runs across the paper and Leonard's eyes "wake up"

and his hand finishes the word, " F L O W E R S "

190.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY           .                          190.

Sayer and Leonard watching film of him eating from a bowl of

soup. The hand with the spoon freezes midway to his mouth.

191.   INT. PHARMACY - DAY                                              191.

The counterweight sliding up from 500 to 625 mgs.

192.   INT. OPERATING THEATRE - NIGHT

Though the junk has been cleared and some of the railings                      *

ripped out, the place is still grim, unpainted. Wood scraps                    *

and workmen's tools lay around. There's a wheelchair ramp,                     *

half-built, not yet in place.                                                  *

Leonard's plans and notes.

CD             192.CONT.              LEONARD                                       U 92 .

f '  >! '

\S~P          ig2,

193A.    INT. PHARMACY - DAY                                       193A.

L-Dopa powder, falling like snow onto the scale; and the

counter-weight balancing precariously at 575 mgs.

194.     INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY   (WAS SC. 186)                194.

The chalkboard: Name and dosage (575 MGS). And Leonard signing

on it, clearly, without trouble, "Leonard Lowe."

Leonard sits. He seems fine. Suddenly his hand jerks up and

catches the tennis ball Sayer has thrown.

The ball, without warning, comes back. Sayer lunges at it, but

misses. It hits his wrist and rolls across the floor.

they've found the "middle ground."

Tight on Leonard's pharmaceutical chart on the desk. Sayer's

hand comes in and boldly underlines the, dosage - 575 MGS.

195.    INT. LEONARD'S WARD - DAY                                   195.

Leonard buttons his shirt, then picks up the bow tie he always

wears when he's seeing Paula. He looks well, he feels good,

the only sign of illness some fine motor skill trouble.

She watches him try to get the tie on by himself, and casts

around, feeling, perhaps, without a purpose. Eventually, more

to herself than to him:

(D                     (to himself)

,,                 There's a song at twilight                                          ,

6                       When the lights are low

(\_y             time ago.

o

o

196C.CONT.                                                196C.

Sayer almost recoils, as if from a slap. Silence. Then:          *

197.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - NIGHT                                    197.

Leonard, alone at a table with a book. He glances up as Sayer

sits opposite him, then down again at the book.

He turns back to the beginning, tries      again, his eyes moving

too quickly across the lines, "ahead"      of the words. His hands

and head begin shaking out of control      and it' s' all he can do to

close the book.

^      197.CONT.

\f)

(p             over . . . I went dancing . . . that's

CO   f rom their work . All     watc h wi th a    sort o    f    re   verie the coup le

(T~^\             My name is Leonard Lowe. It has

On screen, Leonard is beckoning to someone unseen. No one

appears but he keeps beckoning. Finally Sayer, embarrassed and

camera shy, appears. Though there is no sound, it is clear he

asks, "What?" Leonard turns the doctor so that he is facing

the camera, and points. Sayer again asks, "What?" "There,"

Leonard says. "Where?" Sayer demands. Finally, Sayer

looks directly, curiously, into the camera.

Rolando's music CONTINUES OVER:                                           )

202.    INT. DAYROOM - NIGHT                                                                 20

Through a window, autumn leaves on trees.

And the school yard beyond the field, quiet, deserted.

Pulling back, panes of glass. Across the walls of the dayroom.

Drawings and water colors, of people and: places.

To the arm of the metronome slapping back and forth.

And a twisted hand, a pen grasped awkwardly in it, writing

excruciatingly slowly, and just barely legibly:

Th e ha nd , an d th e mu si c, un fi ni sh ed , st op .

T he han d i s s till , t he arm is sti ll, th e h ead is sti ll,

L eo na rd 's e ye s ar e "s ti ll . "

O nl y th e me tr on om e mo v es , ge nt ly s la pp in g.

D r if t in g s lo w ly a w ay fr om Le o na rd , h i s fa c e, hi s b od y , hi s

be in g, "a sl e ep " . . . ac r os s t he e mp t y ro o m . . . a n d sl ow l y to w ar d

the window . . .

.. . w he re it is no w s no win g . . .

/T\                It's winter.

f ~^               She's living her own life.

&

i

Fernando arrives, leans against the corridor wall, and sort of

mumbles --

Sayer and Leonard walk slowly past, behind Tyler.          Fernando's

eyes briefly meet Sayer's.

204.       INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR, - DAY                                 204

Another doctor emerges from another ward.

(   i--J   Leonard pass.

CO   Sayer drapes his coat around Leonard. Neither speaks.

Q

,                    They're so life-like.

212.CONT.             PEDDLER                                      212.

213.   INT/EXT. TAXI/STREETS - NIGHT                               213.

In the back of a taxi, Leonard stares out the window,

mesmerized by all he sees. The driver glances back in the rear

view mirror.

Leonard glances at the rear view mirror and finds in it the

driver's eyes.

Leonard glances out the window, a little puzzled, to the sky,

to see if there's one flying overhead.

The driver glances back to see what Leonard thinks of that.              *

Leonard nods uncertainly.

As they rattle along, Leonard peers back but the window at

things going by, and absently pets the mechanical dog in his

lap. Eventually -

Hector has to laugh, but it's cut short by the blare of his *

horn as he slams it in response to another cab sliding into his *

lane.

214-217.    OMITTED                                            214-217.

218.   INT/EXT. TAXI/STREET - NEW YORK - NIGHT                     218.

The meter clicks over and into double digits.    The taxi is

parked across the street from a diner.

Leonard watches a waitress in the diner, Paula, chatting with

some young customers. His hand moves to and onto the car door

handle, but then hesitates opening it. Paula is getting her

coat and leaving with her friends. They have ice skates.

219.   EXT. ROCKEFELLER CENTER - NIGHT

Prometheus stealing fire from heaven, dwarfed by the Christmas

tree that towers over him. Figures glide past the statue.

Skaters on the ice rink.

It's magical.- At *least as-seen, through .Leonard's eyes. From

the promenade he watches the skaters gliding gracefully over

the ice. Hector appears at his side.

Without taking his eyes from the skaters below, Leonard digs

into his coat pocket and hands Hector a clump of money,

hundreds of dollars. Embarrassed -

Hector puts the money back in Leonard's coat. Leonard finds

Paula among the skaters, isolates her from them, and watches

her glide around the rink. A fine mist of snow is falling,

veiling her.

/'"~J~      perspective. Though it is impossible, she thinks for a moment

Wj       she sees Leonard's among them. She arcs and glances back up

r--

\%

222.CONT.                                         .           .     222.

Hector and his wife are both thinking the same thing:      this

man's not well and they shouldn't let him go.

His wife agrees with a couple of words in Spanish as she gets              *

up and crosses toward the kitchen.    .

And he can't explain why. He takes the crumpled wad of money               *

(and paper) from his coat pocket and tries to give it to Hector

again.

Hector doesn't take it but doesn't say anything more about it

when Leonard sets it down on the coffee table.

She nods, Your welcome, from the doorway of the kitchen.

Leonard offers his hand to Hector to shake.

222.CONT.              LEONARD                                       222

Leonard smiles; the man does know it, and appreciates it.

223.    EXT. NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT                                 223.

Descending from a fire escape strung with a single strand

of Christmas lights . . . down to the street below, to Leonard,

moving along the sidewalk, noticing:

A young couple, bundled up, hurrying down the stairs of a

basement apartment, fumbling with keys;

A Christmas tree too large for the doorway of an another

apartment across the street, being tugged at by someone inside,

unseen. >

Leonard smiles. His gait and tics, and especially the smile,

make him look insane. He passes a shop window with very simple

ornamentation as the proprietor inside switches out the lights,

and continues on, and into the darkness of the street ahead.

224.    EXT. EAST RIVER - NIGHT                    -               224.

Black water. The river. The drone of engines and syncopated

rhythms of wheels of unseen cars.

Leonard, at the river's edge, stares into the water. His hand

comes out of his pocket holding the bag of L-Dopa capsules, and

he lets it fall in. It floats for a moment before a force from

below, like a hand, pulls it under.

224A.   EXT. EAST RIVER - DAWN                                    224A.

Leonard on a bench. Behind him, across an empty field, bums

huddled over a barrel fire warming their hands.

Sayer's face appears against a pastel dawn sky. Leonard

;( __

r

