Yussef is squatting on the other side of the house, spying

through a crack, breathing excitedly.

Zora is inside, undressing. She has a long body and her

cinnamon skin is soft and clean. Every now and then she

aims a complicit glance at the crack through which Yussef is

spying.

Zora turns around toward where the voice is coming from.

Yussef is still spying.    Ahmed approaches.

Yussef turns around and signals for him to lower his voice.

Yussef pays no attention and keeps spying. Ahmed pulls him

by the shoulder and makes him lose his balance. Yussef falls

on his ass.

Yussef gets up and dusts himself off.

He turns around and leaves.

The goats graze. Yussef and Ahmed watch them sitting on the

side of a hill. They look hot and bored. They both throw

stones at a small rusty can. Yussef throws one and misses.

Ahmed throws his and does. He draws a line in the ground.

A jackal is stalking the goats.    Yussef spots it.

Ahmed raises his head but cannot see it. Yussef points at

it, but Ahmed still cannot locate it. Yussef despairs.

Ahmed finally spots it. He loads the rifle, but when he is

about to aim, the rifle fires. The shot hits amidst the

goats, lifting up a small cloud of dust.

The jackal flees, terrified, while the goats scamper in

different directions.

Both brothers are sitting under a tree, eating bread and

drinking water from a goatskin canteen.

Ahmed keeps eating without turning to look at his brother.

Yussef gets annoyed, stand up and leaves.

The brothers are sitting apart from each other.   Ahmed guards

the goats with the rifle on his lap.

After a while, Yussef goes to sit behind a large rock. He

makes sure his brother isn't watching and he pulls his pants

down to start masturbating.

Amelia (54), a maternal, Mexican woman with a pleasant face,

is playing Monopoly with Debbie (4) and Mike (5). They are

both typically American kids.

The phone rings and Amelia goes to answer it.

Amelia turns to Mike.

Mike runs to the phone and grabs it.

Amelia is putting Debbie and Mike to sleep.   They are both

lying in bed. Amelia sits next to them.

Mike shows her his teeth so she can see he did.

Both children nod.

Amelia sits down next to her and caresses her.

Amelia doesn't know what else to say. She pats Debbie's head.

They both nod and snuggle under their blankets. Amelia watches

them silently.

Amelia (54) sleeps. The sun is just starting to rise. A

phone rings distantly. Amelia awakes. She sits up, listens

intently and hears the ringing.

She grabs a robe from a chair beside her, puts it on and

gets up to answer the phone.

Amelia enters the kitchen and answers a wall phone.

Amelia looks worried.

Richard stops talking. We hear voices in the background.

He hangs up.   Amelia stares into empty space.

Debbie (4) and Mike (5) are having breakfast while Amelia

leans on the sink and looks at them, overwhelmed.

Amelia turns around to warm up a tortilla. Mike stops eating

his cereal and looks at her.

Amelia turns around and sees Mike, who is truly worried.

Amelia strokes his hair. A car horn honks. Amelia looks

out and sees a school bus parked outside the house.

Amelia turns around and walks out to the street. Through

the door we can see her saying something to the bus driver.

The school bus leaves and Amelia walks back into the house.

Debbie and Mike are watching cartoons while Amelia talks on

the phone.

She hangs up and remains pensive.

Amelia and the kids walk down a street in Santa Monica.

Amelia and the kids are standing in front of a house, talking

with Lucia (22), who is dressed in a black and white uniform.

Lucia looks down at the blonde-haired, blue-eyed children.

Amelia is packing the children's clothes in a small suitcase.

Debbie and Mike, curious, watch her.

A run-down '88 Ford Pinto parks in front of the house and

honks its horn. The front door opens and Amelia walks out,

carrying the small suitcase, with the two kids.

Santiago (24), a young Mexican with light eyes.

Santiago, surprised, looks at the children.

Amelia opens the door for the children to get in.

Richard (45), tall, thin, weathered, and Susan (38), good-

looking, with an athletic body, visit the impressive Casbah

with a group of American, French and English tourists. Most

of them are old, with a few couples in their forties or

fifties.

Anwar (30), a man with a kind face, is the tour guide showing

them around.

Richard listens attentively.   Susan looks hot.

Anwar walks toward one end of the aisles and calls the group.

The herd moves docile toward Anwar's voice.

The group of tourists spread about a small eatery with open

air tables on a dusty terrace. A bus is parked behind them.

At a table, on one end of the terrace with views to a cluster

of mountains, Richard and Susan look through some menus.

Richard seems at ease in this place. Susan appears to be

bothered by the dust and otherness.

A waiter brings a plate and some cutlery.

She grabs Richard's glass and tosses out the ice. Then she

does the same thing with hers. They are quiet for a moment.

Susan gets angry and faces him.

Richard sighs, defeated. They stop speaking and sit looking

at the mountains.

The tourists crowd around to board the bus. Some boys in

rags approach to sell them trinkets.

Some of the tourists buy them. They come to Susan, who

becomes instantly uncomfortable. She gestures with her hand

to say they have no money, but the kids insist.

Richard takes off his binoculars and gives them to the

youngest of the boys (7), who receives them with wide eyes.

Richard just gets in the bus. Susan stares at the boy with

the binoculars for a moment and then gets in.

Susan sits next to the window, in the middle of the bus.

She looks hurt and sad. Richard walks over and sits next to

her.

The bus starts. Through the window, Richard can still see

the boy with the binoculars. He smiles until he sees an older

boy snatch the binoculars away and push the little boy.

The bus drives away, but Richard can't take his eyes off the

scene. The older boy walks away with the binoculars.

The bus drives down a straight road that divides the desert.

The bus drives on. Some of the old men sleep. Susan leans

her head against the window and watches the landscape scroll

past. Richard sits beside her silently.

Susan holds out her hand and takes Richard's, as a sign of

reconciliation. He holds hers and caresses it.

Susan gets comfortable to try to sleep. She closes her eyes

when suddenly something smashes the window and Susan collapses

forward.

Richard turns to look at the punctured glass and then Susan.

Susan doesn't answer, limp on her seat.

Richard lifts her up and when he does he sees a thread of

blood run down her neck. Richard yells at the driver.

In an indoor volleyball court with bleachers, several Japanese

girls play volleyball. They all compete intensely for the

point. There is excitement, but everything occurs quietly.

A player jumps and spikes the ball. Chieko (16), tall,

beautiful, with strands of hair painted purple, volleys the

ball back up. It reaches one of her teammates who sets up

another to spike it.

Chieko's team wins the point. The referee, instead of

whistling, lifts up a red flag.

The players congratulate each other silently, in sign

language. The only sound we can here is the parents' clapping

as they watch the game from the stands.

Chieko's team serves. Again, the game is heated. A rival

player spikes the ball, and it is barely out of bounds.

However, the referee, with his red flag, calls the point.

Chieko is upset and goes to argue with him.

Chieko gestures violently.   One of her teammates goes to

calm her down.

Chieko breaks loose and approaches the referee.

Chieko is furious.   She starts to make obscene gestures.

The coach walks onto the court. He holds her to calm her

down and then takes her away. Despite Chieko's violent

reaction, everything is still silent. From the bleachers,

Yasujiro (47), Chieko's father, dressed in a nice suit with

the tie undone, with a sad pride about him, disapproves of

his daughter's actions.

Chieko sits on a bench in her underwear. She looks aggravated

and absorbed in her own thoughts. Her other teammates get

dressed. Two of them walk past wrapped in towels, freshly

showered, and stand in front of her. They talk to each other

in sign language.

Chieko, angry, gets up and starts to rummage through her

locker. Her teammate walks over and gets her attention.

Chieko doesn't answer.    Teammate 2 approaches.

She caps this with an obscene gesture that bothers Chieko.

Teammate 1 laughs, amused. Teammate 2 gives Chieko a scornful

look. Chieko smiles sardonically.

Yasujiro drives while Chieko looks at the swarming Tokyo

streets. She is wearing a skirt revealing of her long

volleyball legs.

Her fathers speaks to her in sign language.

Yasujiro shakes his head in disapproval.

They don't say anything else.   The traffic is chaotic.

Chieko just looks at him.

They don't say anything else.   The traffic is chaos.

Yasujiro parks his car and Chieko gets out.

Chieko looks annoyed, and blows her father a kiss goodbye.

As she is about to get out of the car, Yasujiro grabs her

arm. She turns to look at him.

They exchange a glance.   She nods, closes the door and leaves.

Eve's is a restaurant full of t.v.'s, noise, video games.

There is smoke, and people talking everywhere. Chieko moves

through the crowd. A hostess intercepts her.

Chieko doesn't manage to read her lips. The hostess, smiling,

awaits an answer. Chieko waits, expectant, for the hostess

to repeat herself.

Chieko nods and points at her group of girlfriends, who are

sitting on the barstools next to the bar.

The hostess smiles another stupid smile and lets Chieko by.

Further off, her friends spot her and make silly faces.

Chieko laughs, walks over to them. They are all dressed the

same: short skirts, tight t-shirts. Some of them have

piercings in their nose, lips and ears. They all exude

hormones in their silence.

Chieko goes to talk to them in sign language.

Mitsu, with a good body, not very tall and with violet

highlights in her hair, points at a pair of tables where a

group of young men are drinking beer.

Chieko turns around and stares at one of them wearing a Milan

jersey. Their eyes meet. Chieko keeps her eyes on him, and

the boy finally turns away.

Chieko nods without taking her eyes off him.

Chieko, Mitsu and another of their friends are playing a

pinball game that makes noises whenever the ball hits a wall.

The young man in the Milan jersey approaches Chieko.

Neither Chieko, nor her friends answer. The guy turns to

look at one of his friends, who signals for him to insist.

Chieko, obviously, cannot hear him. She keeps playing.

Suddenly, Mitsu notices the young man's presence and taps

Chieko on the shoulder. Chieko turns around and is surprised.

The young man turns to look toward his friends as he speaks.

Chieko gets frustrated; she cannot read his lips. He stops

looking at his friends and awaits an answer, but all he sees

is three silent girls staring at him stupefied.

Chieko talks to Mitsu in sign language.

The young man, upon seeing them communicate, is caught off

guard. He turns around and walks toward his friends without

saying a word.

Chieko leans on the sink while Mitsu pees in one of the

stalls. Chieko is noticeably upset.

Mitsu walks out of the stall, fixing her skirt.   She sees

Chieko is distressed.

Chieko is at a loss for words. Mitsu stares at her: it looks

like another one of many tantrums.

Chieko hikes up her skirt and starts to pull down her panties.

She makes the gesture of sticking her finger up a hole, then

goes to the toilet, throws her panties in and flushes. She

turns to look at Mitsu defiantly, who cannot help but laugh.

Chieko sits on one of the restaurant's benches. Before her

is a new group of young men. Mitsu and Chieko exchange a

look. Provocatively, Chieko crosses her legs slowly revealing

her pussy.

One of the young men seems to notice, and is stunned. Chieko

smiles and does it again. He watches Chieko again and

discretely turns to one of his friends to tell him.

Chieko turns her back to him and faces the bar.    She looks

over at Mitsu, who shakes her head, amused.

A beeper rings on Chieko's skirt. She picks it up and reads:

"Don't forget your appointment with the dentist. Papa."

She puts the beeper away and turns toward Mitsu.

She mischievously turns toward the table where the young man

was, and as she gets off the bench she spreads her legs wide

open, flashing him shamelessly.

She struts out.

Ahmed and Yussef run full speed, herding their goats as they

go. Some of them get left behind and Yussef hurries back to

them. As they climb a hill, he slips and falls, rolls

downhill and drops the rifle, which slides a few meters away.

Ahmed runs to help him. Yussef gets up, covered in dust and

with a scratch on his forehead. Ahmed picks up the rifle.

Ahmed runs off, hands flailing, to herd the straggling sheep.

Yussef follows him, limping.

The brothers make it back home. Agitated, they put the goats

back into their corral. Zora walks out and approaches them.

Yussef, busy closing the corral gate, pays no attention.

Ahmed, breathing agitatedly, doesn't answer.

Ahmed, full of adrenaline, glances angrily at her.

Yussef gets in the way.

Yussef steps up to defend her, but Ahmed spins around and

goes into the house. Yussef turns to Zora.

Without another word, Yussef also goes into the house.

Yussef and Ahmed are sitting on their mats, looking at each

other, pale, scared and quiet. Yasira walks in to see them,

followed by her daughters. She turns to Ahmed.

Ahmed, livid, cannot answer.

Yasira stares harshly at Ahmed.

Ahmed looks at Zora, then Yussef, and then is silent.

Yasira points toward the corral.

Yasira walks out.    Yussef and Zora exchange a look.

Yussef and Ahmed are jerking a couple of young goats with

very sharp knives. They set the thin strips on newspaper.

They look nervous.    They talk in whispers.

They are silent for a long while.

Yussef stares at him in disbelief.

Ahmed won't answer. Yussef looks around the room to make

sure nobody is listening to them.

Ahmed remains pensive.    He sighs and answers.

The brothers are hanging the strips of meat on ropes to dry

them in the sun.

An old Valiant packed with seven men parks in front of the

house and Abdullah gets out. He raises his hand to say

goodbye.

The driver also raises his hand and then drives off.   Abdullah

turns to Yussef.

Abdullah turns towards the house. Yussef comes out running

towards a little field below the house. Yasira is plowing

with a manual plow.

Abdullah and his children sit at the small table while the

women prepare the food. A column of smoke rises from the

fire where they are roasting goat meat and toasting bread.

Yamil, the youngest of the daughters, sets some bread on the

table. Abdullah takes it, tears some off and starts to eat.

He turns to Yussef.

Yasira sets the strips of goat meat on the table. Abdullah

serves himself some. His children wait until he's done to

serve themselves.

Abdullah starts talking with his mouth full.

Ahmed and Yussef shoot each other a nervous glance.

Abdullah finishes his mouthful. He wipes himself with his

sleeve. Ahmed doesn't even dare raise his eyes.

Yussef, nervous, looks up.

Yussef and Ahmed again exchange a furtive glance.

Night. An oil lamp in a Nescafe jar lights the house. The

family sleeps in the only two rooms in the house. One of

them is the parents room, the other the children's.

We hear a goat bleating in the darkness. Abdullah's snoring.

Yasira's breathing. The crunching of wood in the night cold.

Neither Yussef, nor Ahmed can sleep.   They both look at each

other, anxious.

Santiago's car crosses the border between San Diego and

Tijuana. They drive through a green light at the crossing,

easily entering Mexico without being stopped by three Mexican

customs officials.

Debbie and Mike stare through the windows, amazed at the new

world they are entering: other people, other architecture,

other colors, other noises.

Santiago turns towards them while he's driving.

Santiago turns toward the kids.

Amelia and Santiago look at each other and smile.

They drive through Tijuana.

Mike and Debbie continue to gaze awestruck through the

windows. Santiago turns to them.

They both nod.

Santiago pulls over next to some stalls, and the street

vendors run out to offer them their products.

The children eat their popsicles as they walk through the

endless aisles of stalls, past the vendors and their incessant

banter.

Santiago answers before Amelia.

Santiago laughs.

Amelia smiles and nods.

The car drives out of the city and gets on a highway.   The

desert rises in all its magnitude and severity.

Santiago parks the car next to a junkyard.   Amelia and Debbie

run out and hide behind a fence.

Debbie pulls her underpants down to pee.   Troubled, she looks

at the mound of destroyed cars.

They drive down the highway and then turn onto a path. They

drive down the path at high speed, lifting up clouds of dust.

They arrive at a dusty hamlet in the middle of the desert; a

few houses, no more than twenty, some adorned with

multicolored paper.

Several crates of soda are stacked up against a makeshift

shed built out of yucca fronds. A group of musicians who

play Nortena music are setting up their instruments.

There are various pickup trucks and smuggled cars parked

around the hamlet. The guests are wearing their best: fresh

shirts, big buckles, almost new boots.

Santiago parks. Amelia gets out first.     A group of people

sees her and comes over to greet her.

Amelia smiles.   Her friends notices Mike and Debbie.

Amelia nods. Luis (24), Amelia's son, a typical Norteno

cowboy with long sideburns and moustache, his face tanned

from days under the sun, wearing a pistachio-colored tuxedo

with a cloth flower in the lapel, greets Amelia with a kiss.

She looks him up and down.

Mike and Debbie, struck dumb by the language and the

strangers, hide behind Amelia, who introduces them to Luis.

Luis holds his hand out ceremoniously.

Santiago calls out to some kids who are running around.

Lucio (10), the oldest of the gang, approaches.   Santiago

gestures toward the two American kids.

Lucio gives them a scornful glance and calls them over half-

heartedly.

With her hand, Amelia signals to the kids that it's ok to go

with him. Shyly, Debbie and Mike follow.

Amelia is in a room with her two daughters standing in front

of a peeling and broken mirror putting on her violet gown.

One of her daughters helps her and pulls the zipper all the

way up.

The two sisters realize that the dress has a hole just below

the seat, exchange looks and smile, which doesn't please

Amelia.

Amelia looks at them suspiciously, turns around and leaves

the room with her dress elegantly torn.

The bus is in the middle of the road.

Several of the tourists are hiding under their seats,

frightened. The driver, still ducking, looks toward the

mountains to try to piece together what happened.

Richard holds Susan against his shoulder, blood gushing from

her neck. Her eyes are open and staring at a fading world.

Richard takes Susan from under her armpits and carefully

lays her down on the aisle. Anwar runs over to help.

Anwar takes his shirt off - left only in his undershirt -

and puts it under Susan's neck.

Susan breathes in, and every time she does, blood flows from

her wound. Richard turns toward the other passengers.

Nobody answers.   Richard starts to lose his cool.

The pensioners don't answer; they are too scared. Richard

opens Susan's purse and sees a cell phone. He turns it on

and tries to call, but there is no signal. He turns to Anwar.

Richard runs down the aisle and gets out of the bus.

No cars drive by. The road is almost deserted. In the

distance, a run-down Renault approaches. Richard stands in

the road to stop it.

The car brakes and Richard runs toward the driver: an old

peasant traveling with his eight year-old grandson.

Richard grows desperate.

Richard sees that Anwar and the bus driver have gotten out

of the bus and he starts shouting at them for help.

With the distraction, the old man drives off. Richard watches

helplessly as they drive away and he grabs Anwar by the arm.

The bus makes a U-turn and drives away at full speed.

The bus rattles along. Richard huddles over Susan, trying to

stop the blood flowing from her neck. Barth, an old man starts

shouting.

Richard gets exasperated at the old man's screaming.

Barth shuts up and the bus drives on.

The bus bounces its way down the straight highway.

The passengers sit quietly. As the ride gets bumpier, Susan

starts to cry out in pain.

Richard tries to calm her down.

Richard turns her around and sees her shoulder has been

shattered. She won't stop shouting. A pool of blood starts

trickling down the aisle.

Richard turns to look at Susan, who is writhing in pain.

Richard and Anwar exchange a glance.

The bus leaves the main road and turns into a dirt road.

The bus' poor suspension gives the passengers a jolt.    Richard

tries to protect Susan's head.

The bus pulls into a small group of houses. Several children

run beside the bus, chasing it. Some gaunt dogs get out of

the way to let the bus by.

The bus pulls up in front of a modest house.

Richard raises his head and sees the desolate environs.

Richard tries to carry Susan, but she screams in pain.

He slips his hands under her and lifts her up.

Richard moves his hand, which is covered in blood. As he

carries her, he turns into the aisle while Anwar and one of

the passengers try to help him.

Richard carries her into the house through a crowd of curious

children.

Anwar leads Richard down the hallways amidst Susan's screams.

They walk through a dusty patio and Anwar points at some

stairs. Richard climbs them with difficulty and Anwar opens

the door to a room.

An old woman (87), Anwar's grandmother, who has centuries of

desert in her expression, lets them in and points at a rug

on the floor.

Richard understands and softly lays Susan on the rug. Susan

looks around horrified: adobe walls, dirt floor: the epitome

of the third world.

Obviously, Richard does not have it.

They get ready to leave and Susan starts imploring.

Susan looks desperate. To set Richard somewhat at ease,

Anwar points at his Grandmother.

Richard leans over Susan.

Anwar kneels down next to her, takes a cloth and improvises

a tourniquet that he adjusts near her shoulder. He turns

towards the grandmother.

The grandmother nods. She sees the swarm of kids looking

into the place and she shoos them away.

The kids obey, except for one or two who take one last look

before they go. Susan's terrified eyes watch Anwar and Richard

leave the room.

The bus is still parked in front of the house. As soon as

Richard walks out, the pensioners approach him.

Tom (51), a fat English passenger, faces him.

Richard and Anwar walk down the streets of the small hamlet

before the people's inquisitive gaze. They arrive at a

general store with all sorts of roots and grains displayed

outside. Anwar walks over to the owner.

Susan is lying on the floor, desolate. It seems as if the

pain is diminishing. The grandmother leans over her and softly

caresses her with her dirty, wrinkled hands. This startles

Susan.

Susan is a little bit uncomfortable with her this close.

The old woman doesn't seem to understand. She grabs a basket

of dates and offers them to her. Susan shakes her head.

With her hand, Susan mimes drinking a glass of water. The

old woman seems to understand. She pours some water from a

jar, leans over her and helps her drink in small sips.

The grandmother bows her head as if to say "your welcome."

The old woman just smiles. Susan makes a gesture of

desperation. The grandmother leans over her, unfurls her

index finger and points at her heart.

Susan keeps looking at her as she slowly gets up and goes to

sit in a chair.

Richard is in a small cubicle dialing on an old cream-colored

rotary phone while Anwar waits discretely in a corner. Dozens

of people watch from outside. Richard turns to look at them

while the call connects.

He turns to Anwar.

He hangs up. As soon as he does, he turns to Anwar.

Anwar, clumsy and stressed at Richard's desperation, takes

the phone and starts dialing.

As he finishes dialing, Anwar turns to Richard.

Richard returns to the room. Susan, weak, lies with her

eyes open. The grandmother is tending to the wound, which

won't stop bleeding. She gets up and goes to Anwar.

Anwar goes out to the patio and fetches a metal basin full

of soil. He goes to a well, scoops out some water with a

gourd and washes out the basin.

Anwar is walking back when he is stopped by Mohammed, his

brother, a fat man (32) with curly hair and a tanned face.

Anwar doesn't pay attention to him and keeps walking toward

the room. His brother catches up to him.

Anwar stops and looks at him fixedly.

Anwar pays no more attention to him and carries the basin

into the room.

Susan is lying down. A small pool of blood has collected

under her neck. She looks restless. She whispers weakly.

Just then Anwar enters. The grandmother takes the basin and

sets it in a corner. She gets some pieces of cloth and starts

to soak them.

Two old men walk through the streets.

Mohammed walks into the room and calls him.

The two men walk past the tourists and head inside without

knocking or asking for permission.

Richard and Anwar have walked out into the patio to wait for

them. The sheik approaches.

He turns to Richard and speaks to him in very bad French.

Richard thanks him with a nod.

Richard nods.   The sheik continues in Arabic.

The sheik looks at the house.

Richard, anxious, questions Anwar.

The sheik and the moukadem turn and exit the house.

Chieko is sitting in the reception area, waiting her turn.

There is a woman with a twelve year-old son listening to a

walkman and an old couple.

The receptionist (50) will not stop talking to the old lady.

The woman continues her banal chatter. Chieko observes her

grotesque mouth. She then looks at the old man's bored face,

the old woman's feigned interest, the mother's annoyed

expression, and the boy, who rocks his head to the music.

A man walks out and the receptionist gestures at Chieko and

points toward the door.

The dentist (47) - tall and, unlike the receptionist, with

impeccable skin covering his hardened, attractive face -

examines Chieko's mouth. His face comes very close to hers

as he looks at her, making her nervous. The fat receptionist

walks in without knocking.

The dentist looks up at her. She leaves the drill bits on a

table and leaves. The dentist turns back to Chieko and speaks

face to face with her so she can read his lips.

She smiles. The dentist moves closer to Chieko's mouth again;

she cannot stop looking at him.

Suddenly, Chieko licks his cheek. He is surprised, but

continues his checkup. She licks him again, this time on the

lips. He pulls away, flustered.

She grabs his hand, puts it on her inner thigh and rubs it

against her pubis.

He, confused, tries to pull his hand away, but she prevents

him from doing so. The scene starts to turn slightly

grotesque. After a slight struggle, he pulls his hand back.

She grabs his hand again and, again, pulls it toward her

pubis. He gets angry and moves back. The fat woman enters

again without knocking, sees they are agitated and, without

a word, walks out and closes the door.

The dentist turns toward Chieko.

She shakes her head. She is excited, anxious, scared,

fragile. He pulls her by her wrist out of the chair.

He walks to the door and opens it. Just before she walks

out, Chieko draws out a slight smile, which is almost a grin.

Chieko walks down crowded Tokyo streets.   She walks with a

lost gaze, unsettled.

Chieko arrives at an upper class apartment complex. The

architecture is cutting edge, but impersonal and cold.

Chieko enters the lobby. Beside the doorman are two men

dressed in suits: Kenji (31) and Hamano (50). The janitor

gestures at Chieko with his chin. The men walk over toward

her and cut her off.

Chieko doesn't manage to read his lips. She is silent. The

doorman notices the situation, walks out from behind his

small desk and shouts at the men.

Kenji and Hamano are disconcerted. Hamano stands squarely

in front of her and speaks slowly, emphasizing every word.

She nods.

She pulls out a pen and a piece of paper from her bag.   She

scrawls a few lines and hands them over.

Hamano reads it and turns his face toward hers.

She shrugs her shoulders. Kenji gives her his card. Upon

receiving it, Chieko turns to look at him. Their eyes meet

and she looks down. She then looks up again, blushing.

Chieko can't stop staring at Kenji. The two cops leave.    As

soon as they do, Chieko heads toward the elevator.

Chieko walks into the apartment. It is a large apartment,

elegantly furnished. Although decoration is scant, some

hunting trophies stand out: a scimitar-horned Oryx, sheep,

and others. There are also photographs of Yasujiro hunting.

A wall is dedicated to family photos. Among them is a picture

of Chieko as a little girl with her father and her mother.

Chieko sees a note on the table at the entrance. She puts

the policeman's card down and picks up a note from her father

that says: "I waited until five and you didn't make it.

I've got a meeting and I'll be back late. I left you some

soup and some chicken for dinner. Kisses. Papa."

Chieko sits in front of a mute T.V., channel surfing.   She

stops at a fashion show, then some cartoons.

Suddenly, on a news program, we see the photographs of Ahmed

and Yussef. Chieko looks at them for a moment and then

changes the channel. She is watching T.V. when a red bulb,

set between a yellow bulb and a blue one, starts to light up

insistently as the doorbell rings.

Chieko notices and shuts off the T.V.

Chieko opens the door and Mitsu walks in. They greet each

other with a handshake where they end up touching their index

fingers to each other's hearts.

Chieko goes to get her bag. Mitsu sees the policeman's card

on the entrance table and looks at it. Chieko comes back

and Mitsu asks her about it in sign language.

Chieko shakes her head, remains pensive and then smiles.

Chieko puts Kenji's card in her purse.

Chieko smiles, lifts up her skirt and exposes her naked pubis.

Mitsu lifts hers up as well and is also without panties.

They laugh and leave the apartment.

Dawn. The desert is a rose plain softly lit by the sun's

first rays. Yussef and Ahmed are digging a hole with their

bare hands. Once they're finished, they clean up around the

hole and mark it with three stones.

Alarid (40), a federal cop, tall, in an impeccable uniform

with numerous rank badges, stands on the highway examining

the site of the shot with the old man who was driving.

In the distance we can see a police checkpoint stopping some

cars and, after checking them, letting them go.

He stands more or less where Richard tried to stop him.

The old man points some twenty yards behind him.

Alarid walks toward where the old man said and looks out at

the mountains. Some of his men are visible at the tops.

Alarid talks to them by radio.

We can see some men exploring the terrain.

The radio crackles.

Alarid squats, scrutinizing the four empty cartridges lying

on the earth. One of his men approaches and Alarid signals

with his hand for him to stop immediately.

The man remains motionless. Alarid follows the prints that

lead away from the cartridges. He reaches the mess of goat

hoof-prints. He picks up a ball of shit and feels it.

Yussef and Ahmed walk back home, lost in their own thoughts.

Suddenly a jackal trots out and stares at them. Yussef picks

up a rock and throws it. The jackal runs off.

Hassan and his wife are listening to the radio and playing

cards at a table placed outside the house. As they play,

Hassan whittles a stake with a small knife.

Hassan's wife lowers her hand and Hassan follows.

His wife pushes two chips from her pile toward him. In the

distance, several trucks approach, kicking up a dust cloud.

Hassan's wife gets up to better see them.

Hassan stands up and watches the vehicles come closer.

Five trucks pull up in a semicircle around the house. A

dozen police officers get out armed and aim at Hassan and

his wife.

Alarid gets out and stands next to his car door.

Hassan paralyzed by fear, answers in a broken voice.

One of the police officers approaches him aiming directly at

his head, while another one aims at his wife.

Hassan lifts up his knife and shows it to them.

Hassan drops the knife in the dust.

Hassan and his wife look at each other before they obey.

The cop readies himself to fire, and Hassan drops to the

ground. His wife follows and also lies on her stomach.

Abdullah takes two goats out of the corral, ties a rope to

their neck and drags them over to a rock. The goats bleat

desperately trying to break free.

Abdullah turns to look at his children.

Yussef and Ahmed hold their legs.   Abdullah pulls out a knife

and slits the goat's throat.

Hassan lies on the floor, cuffed, with a broken mouth,

surrounded by cops. Alarid is carrying out the interrogation,

squatting next to Hassan's face.

Hassan remains silent and turns to look at his wife who is

sitting on a chair, cuffed, a few yards away.

Alarid punches him in the face.

Abdullah gives Yussef and Ahmed some goat skins.

The two brothers bundle up the skins, tie them up with some

cord and they leave down the path away from the house.

As they climb a hill, they encounter a convoy of Moroccan

police trucks. They are terrified. The vehicles screech to

a dramatic halt before them, lifting up much dust.

Alarid opens the passenger window.

Ahmed and Yussef exchange a glance.   Yussef nods.

Ahmed gets very nervous.   Yussef points the wrong way with

an air of certainty.

Alarid scrutinizes the brothers' faces.

Ahmed breathes nervously.    Yussef continues in cold blood.

Alarid smiles and gestures at the driver with his head that

they should go on. The police vehicles drive off in the

direction Yussef pointed them in.

Ahmed and Yussef run home. Their mother and sisters are

milking some goats into a tin bucket. When they fill, Abdullah

empties the milk out into a barrel.

Abdullah puts the bucket down on the floor and turns to look

at his kids, who stop before him, panting, exhilarated.

Ahmed can barely control his gasping.

Yasira and her two daughters stop milking and approach.

Abdullah can't seem to understand what their talking about.

Ahmed fires his words out.

Abdullah loses his patience and grabs Ahmed by the shoulders.

Ahmed looks at his father straight in the eyes.

Abdullah turns toward Zora.   In his mind, everything is

confusion.

As soon as the words leave Ahmed's mouth, Yussef decks him

and leaves him sprawled on the dust.

Ahmed shoots right back up and runs at Yussef kicking, until

they're both entangled in the fight and end up rolling on

the ground. Abdullah tries to get between them.

Debbie and Mike are almost like spectators at a soccer match

between the other kids, as they play in the dirt with an

orange plastic ball.

