FADE IN.

EXTERIOR. STUYVESANT TOWN HOUSING PROJECT -- DAY.

Under the credits, the CAMERA PANS slowly across the project,

capturing the sober monotony, the endless straight apartment

houses. Seven o'clock in the morning.

INTERIOR. CHARLIE'S BEDROOM

The bedroom of a two-and-a-half-room apartment in the housing

project. It is early morning, but the shades are drawn and

the room is dark. CAMERA moves slowly across the room, over

the large double bed on which Charlie and Helen Samson, a

young couple in their late twenties, are sleeping. They are

sleeping more or less on their sides, facing away from each

other. One of Helen's pajama-clad legs projects from under

the light covers. We close in on Charlie's sleeping face.

The alarm clock at a distant end of the room suddenly bursts

into a soft relentless buzz. Charlie's eyes open. There is a

muffled movement at his side, and Helen gets up on one elbow.

Then she sits up, rises, and pads barefooted -- a rather

pretty girl in rumpled pajamas -- to the alarm clock and

turns it off. Charlie's head turns on the pillow so that he

can watch her. She pads back to the bed now and stands at the

foot, looking down at her husband. She produces a smile, then

turns and shuffles into the bathroom where she turns on the

wall switch. A shaft of light now pours into the bedroom.

Charlie sits up in bed. His shoes and socks are on the floor

by his feet. He reaches down and starts to put them on.

Suddenly, from the recesses of the bathroom, Helen's rather

vague soprano lifts into the first lines of a popular song.

Then it stops as abruptly as it began. Charlie's head slowly

turns to look at the bathroom, back again to the business of

putting on his socks. His face is expressionless, but there

is no mistaking the sodden distaste he has for the world

today.

He just sits on the bed, a young man of twenty-nine, clad

only in his pajama trousers, one sock dangling from his hand,

his head hanging, his shoulders slumped. Behind him, the

sudden noise of rushing tap water, then off. Then his wife

comes back into the bedroom. She is carrying a bath towel

with which she is drying her face. Finished, she drops the

towel on the bed and begins to dress. A moment later, she

pads around the corner of the bed to Charlie's front. She

is still barefooted and wears her pajama top, but she has

exchanged the trousers for a half-slip. Charlie hasn't moved

a muscle since the effort required to lift one sock from the

floor.

Charlie shrugs without looking up. Helen goes out of the

bedroom, into the little square of foyer where there is a

telephone table with a telephone on it. She dials, waits. In

the bedroom, Charlie rubs his eyes with two fingers.

CAMERA SLOWLY MOVES IN FOR CLOSEUP

of Charlie in bedroom.

CLOSEUP OF CHARLIE

He is not excited. If anything he is miserable. His bowed

head rises slowly. The eyes open. He stares abstractedly

ahead for a moment. Then he sighs a profound sigh of

resignation. Then his eyes close again, and his head slowly

sinks back to its previous abjection.

INTERIOR. THE KITCHEN -- HALF HOUR LATER

Helen, dressed in skirt and blouse now, is preparing two

cups of instant coffee, pouring hot water from the saucepan

into the two cups. The toaster is ticking. A packaged loaf

of white bread is open on the cupboard shelf. Finished with

pouring the water, Helen sets the saucepan back on the stove

and comes out into the dining area. The dinette table is

covered from end to end by open textbooks, several very large

accounting worksheets on which are scrawled meticulous

numbers, a ruler, several pencils and a pen, an ash tray

glutted with cigarettes, a cup and saucer.

Charlie appears in the bedroom doorway, dressed and washed

now, a neat, clean young man in a white shirt and neatly

knotted tie.

He disappears back into the bedroom. Helen picks up the ash

tray and the cup and saucer.

INTERIOR. THE BEDROOM

Charlie standing by the window, is picking up his keys, a

few dollar bills, a comb, etc., from a chair and putting

them into his trouser pockets. The blinds of the bedroom

window have been opened, and the high August sun streams in,

whitening Charlie's face. After he has pocketed his odds and

ends, he moves to the chest of drawers on which, among all

sorts of other things, there are several textbooks and an

opened notebook. He stands a moment looking down into the

open notebook, his lips moving ever so little, as he commits

some of his notes to memory. He turns a page of the notebook

back to check something and then goes back to the previous

page. Now he opens one of the smaller drawers in the chest

of drawers. The drawer contains wisps of his wife's stockings

and other feminine things. He finds a small roll of bills and

takes one of them, putting the bill in his pocket and closing

the dresser drawer.

He pauses now to affix a less frowning expression onto his

face and goes out into the little foyer and into the dining

area.

INTERIOR. THE DINING AREA

Helen is seated at the dinette table, sipping coffee and

reading yesterday's newspaper. There are two cups of coffee

on the table.

He begins assembling the mass of papers and textbooks on the

table.

He has assembled his notes and notebooks and texts in a pile

on the table, ready to take with him. He sits down and

begins sipping his coffee. Helen looks back to her newspaper,

frowning a little, then looks up at Charlie again.

He looks down at his coffee, embarrassed at the outburst.

WE STAY ON HELEN, as she reads her newspaper, but there is

a faint frown on her face.

INTERIOR. LOCAL PLATFORM EASTSIDE IRT SUBWAY

An express train hurtles southward. We see it flashing by

through the concrete pillars of the subway.

IRT EXPRESS HURTLING SOUTHWARD

Charlie and another young man, named Kenneth, are seated in

a crowded subway car. People are standing tightly in the

aisles. Kenneth is an amiable young man of thirty-odd. He

has his jacket off and his tie loosened as a concession to

the August heat. Charlie is neatly and coolly dressed. He

has two notebooks and a battered text in his lap. He is

reading the text. Two young white-collar workers on their

way to work. They ride along silently for a moment. Kenneth

is rather stealthily concerned with a full-busted young

woman who is standing directly in front of him, holding on

to a strap. It is summertime, and the girls all wear light

summer frocks. There is a feeling of wistful sensuality to

the scene.

The two young husbands look down again at their hands and

ride along silently. Kenneth sneaks a quick look up at the

girl standing in front of him, and then lets his attention

drift down the length of the car.

He is referring to a Young Fellow who elbowed his way down

through the crowded aisle but who stopped abruptly when he

noticed an attractive girl, seated about three seats down

from Kenneth. The Girl is reading a newspaper. The Young

Fellow stares at her. The Girl, aware of this sudden

attention, looks briefly up from her newspaper. The Young

Fellow smiles pleasantly. The Girl, with a show of

annoyance, looks back to her newspaper.

They are both laughing audibly now at the memory.

The little spasm of laughter is over. A sort of ruefulness

settles down on the two young husbands. Kenneth looks lazily

down the aisle to see how the Young Fellow is making out

with The Girl. He seems to be making out all right. They are

looking steadily at each other now. Kenneth turns back to

Charlie.

Charlie leans forward to see this progress.

Somehow this has a sobering effect on the two young husbands.

Again they sit silently as the train buckets along.

They sit silently again. The train hurtles along and then

suddenly slows as it approaches a stop. There is a rustle of

movement among the passengers in the subway car. A few

people start edging toward the doors. The Girl reading the

newspaper now folds her newspaper and stands almost directly

in the Young Fellow's face. They regard each other.

They start to crowd down the aisle. The train is chugging

into the Chambers Street station, and we can see the

yellowed lights of the platform and the quick blur of faces.

The two young husbands, who had been following the byplay

between The Girl and the Young Fellow, now watch them slowly

exit. There is an expression of poignant wistfulness on both

their faces.

EXTERIOR. THE OFFICE

We look down on the bookkeeping department of a life

insurance company in downtown Manhattan area around Pine

Street. It is a fairly large room, large enough to hold

eleven desks. But you get the feeling that this is one of

the smaller offices on the floor. You get the feeling that

this company occupies three or four floors of this building.

Despite the size of the office, it has a cluttered look.

Each desk has piles of paper on it, and all the impedimenta

of the bookkeeper -- the pens and pencils, the adding

machine, the telephone. Some of the desks have typewriters.

Along the walls there are rows of filing cabinets and wall

bins stocked with large worksheets and thick ledgers. At

the far end of the room, there is a row of windows, but it

is still necessary to keep the overhead fluorescent lights

on all day. They are on now. There are two middle-aged

women standing, murmuring to each other, and a rather

heavy-set balding man in his late forties, sitting at a

desk in his shirt sleeves, already hard at work, although

it is still ten minutes shy of eight-thirty.

Kenneth and Charlie enter. Ad lib hellos between them and

the two middle-aged women. Charlie moves to the coat rack to

hang up his jacket, drops off his books on his desk, starts

for the coat rack. Behind Charlie, we see Kenneth, carrying

his jacket, moving to his desk, up where the middle-aged man

is working.

Walter, the middle-aged man, nods his good mornings.

Walter merely nods, doesn't bother to look up from the work.

Kenneth finds a stick of gum in his drawer, unwraps it. Two

more women, gray-haired and bespectacled, come into the

office. There is an ad lib mumble of hellos in background.

Charlie hangs up his jacket on the coat rack.

CLOSEUP of Charlie looking out the window into the bright

August morning. His face is just a little ruffled by a

frown, and there is a kind of pain in his eyes. Behind him,

Walter and Kenneth.

CLOSEUP of Charlie, still at the window, when a bell

suddenly clangs, indicating the start of the workday. The

sudden jangle makes him start, and he closes his eyes

briefly against the noise.  Walter, in background, who had

risen and was bent over Kenneth's desk, darts nervously back

to his own desk.

He hunches over his ledgers again, his anxious, harried face

drawn into intense wrinkles of concentration. Several other

women have come into the office by now, and there is a

general movement to the desks. There is the click of a

typewriter, and Walter runs his fingers glibly over the

adding machine on his desk. The day has started.

After a moment, Charlie turns from the window and comes back

to his desk, sinks down onto his chair.

INTERIOR. THE OFFICE -- TWENTY MINUTES LATER

We look down on the bookkeeping department. All the desks

are occupied but two. There are six women and our three men.

The office is silent with industry, everybody's head bent

over his desk. There is the occasional punctuation of an

adding machine or a typewriter or a phone ringing.

Our three men are bent over their tally sheets, worksheets,

and ledgers, occasionally reaching up to quickly tabulate

something on the adding machine. After a moment, Walter says:

Walter's head comes up for the first time.

Walter looks back down to his work again.

Walter looks up suddenly from his work, a strange sting of

pain crossing his face.

He turns back again to his work, his face creased with

anxiety. The three men work silently for a moment. Then the

office door opens, and a man of about thirty-five, a little

stout, but rather casual in his dress, wearing steel-rimmed

glasses, enters. This is Eddie Watkins, the office bachelor.

He seems to have had very little sleep the night before. His

eyes, behind the wire-rimmed glasses, are heavy-lidded. A

cigarette dangles listlessly, from his mouth. There is

something of the bacchanalian libertine about Eddie. There

is a perfunctory exchange of hellos and good mornings,

establishing that this is Eddie. He shuffles with ineffable

weariness to his desk.

Eddie sits down at his desk, pulls his cigarette

automatically for a moment. Then he reaches over to a pile

of telephone directories on the floor beside his desk, pulls

up the Manhattan one, flips through the pages, finding the

number he wants. He picks up the phone.

A young woman comes into the office, goes to Walter's desk

and drops some papers before him.

This is the girl in the office who goes to the water cooler

three times a morning and all the men covertly watch her.

She is cute, but attractive more by comparison to the other

women in the office. Nevertheless, all the men, including

Eddie and Charlie, let their eyes cautiously watch her as

she leaves, her sheath dress tight on her hips.

Eddie, who has hung up, now rubs his eyes with two fingers to

clear his head and picks up the phone again.

The three heads around him look slowly up from their

respective work, naked interest manifest on their faces.

He hangs up. The three married men look down again to their

ledgers and tap away again on their adding machines. Eddie

sits slumped in his seat for a moment.

The three married men each look up slowly again, naked envy

on each face.

He hangs up, sits a moment, then finally removes the

cigarette from his mouth, crushes it in his ash tray, and

turns to the others.

Charlie is frowning down at a sheaf of adding machine totals

in front of him.

Move in for CLOSEUP of Charlie, frowning. Over this, Eddie's

voice.

He immediately bends back to his work, takes his pencil up

again. CAMERA PULLS QUICKLY UP AND AWAY until we have an

ANGLE SHOT looking down at their desks in various positions

of work.

FADE IN

EXTERIOR. DOWNTOWN NEW YORK CITY -- NIGHT

FADE IN with a big loud blare on Eighth Street in Greenwich

Village on a warm August night. Packed sidewalks, jammed

traffic, taxis, trucks, buses, honking of horns, etc.

Man-we're-going-to-have-a-ball type feeling.

EXTERIOR. STREET -- NIGHT

Thirteenth Street off Sixth Avenue not so blary and lit up

as the main drags, but traffic is heavy, and there are lots

of people on the sidewalks. There are a number of restaurants

dotting the street with their little striped awnings and

modest neons. If we are on our toes, we notice one neon that

reads: "LOUIE'S."

INTERIOR. LOUIE'S RESTAURANT

The entire interior isn't too much to show, really. It's a

small restaurant, but it is packed. Waiters scurry here and

there. People jammer and jab. Hustle and bustle. In

background, we can pick out our bachelor party, five men now,

clustered around a table, yakking it up.

WIDE SHOT of our bachelor party, showing all five. They all

seem to be in the best of spirits. The new member of the cast

is Arnold, the groom, a towheaded, pleasant-looking young man

of thirty, shy to the point of being noticeable. Of all the

men at the party, he is the quietest. He sits, a smile nailed

onto his face, turning his head from one friend to another as

they talk, enjoying the rare privilege of being liked. The

dinner is over. During the ensuing scene, a bus boy continues

to remove the used dishes. Several large bottles of beer and

two fifths of Scotch are on the table. There is a welter of

variously assorted glasses. Eddie, Walter, and Kenneth are

smoking cigars, Charlie a cigarette. The Groom is not

smoking.  We have cut into the scene during a jumble of

conversation. Walter is talking to Charlie, whose head is

bent toward the older man. Kenneth is trying to tell the

Groom a joke, but the Groom's attention is being distracted

by Eddie, who is leaning across the table trying to get

Charlie's attention. Ad libs.

Walter, who is pretty lit, suddenly stands and bangs the

table mightily with his fist.

This brings the jumbled conversation to a halt. Walter

surveys the other four, looking for possible challenges,

then sits heavily down.

Eddie crosses to extra chair, picks up wrapped gifts, crosses

back to his place.

Walter leans forward to see what the tissue-wrapped parcel

Arnold is now unwrapping is.

Arnold holds a hot-water bottle aloft. Walter is seized with

a paroxysm of laughter at this immensely Rabelaisian gift.

Walter has come around behind Arnold's chair and can hardly

wait to see what the next joke is.

Arnold unwraps the parcel, holds out a miniature baby bottle.

This is too much for Walter; how funny can you get? He

clutches his sides.

Charlie and Kenneth are smiling appreciatively. Walter

crosses with bottle, sits, starts pouring whisky into baby

bottle.

A hush falls over the assembled guests. Arnold composes his

face into a solemn expression and looks down at the

cluttered table.

This touching address has brought a note of sadness to the

gathering. Indeed, there are tears in Walter's and Arnold's

eyes.

Arnold takes the presents, stands, head bowed. Eddie sits

and all faces turn to Arnold.

This interesting information gives Arnold pause.

The voices have risen again into the jumbled high spirits

that opened the scene.

EXTERIOR. EIGHTH STREET -- NIGHT

We look down on Eighth Street in Greenwich Village. It is

eight thirty at night. It is a fairly active and well-lit

street, bright with neons and movie marquees and lit-up

shops. Our five carousers are marching down the sidewalk,

that is four of them are on the sidewalk. Walter can't quite

decide whether he wants to walk on the sidewalk or in the

street. He keeps hopping in and out between the parked cars,

running to catch up when he falls behind. They are all

feeling pretty good. Arnold is singing in a wavering

baritone:

CLOSER SHOT of the five carousers.

ANOTHER SHOT of the five carousers, Walter whistling at two

passing girls.

EXTERIOR. GREENWICH AVENUE AND TENTH STREET -- NIGHT

GROUP SHOT of our five carousers paused on the curb, waiting

for the lights to change in their favor. Greenwich Avenue

traffic is pretty heavy, going in both directions. The five

men are kind of strung out along the curb with Charlie being

the last in line. Standing beside him, also waiting for the

light to change, is a good-looking, well-dressed, chic young

woman of twenty-four or five.

Charlie turns and regards the pretty young woman.

The young woman, who for our own mysterious purposes we shall

refer to as The Existentialist, regards the five reasonably

tight young men all staring at her. Kenneth has already begun

to giggle.

Kenneth and Arnold, to whom this incident is already

unbearably funny, have turned away and are clutching their

sides, trying to suppress a fit of giggles.

The lights change and The Existentialist starts off across

Greenwich Avenue to the west side of the street. The five

carousers follow right along after her.  That is, Charlie

dogs along behind The Existentialist as they cross the

street. Walter and Eddie are close behind him, listening to

Charlie's pitch. Kenneth and Arnold, embarrassed and

giggling, stagger along behind.

She steps up to the sidewalk on the west side of Greenwich

Avenue and hurries along down Tenth Street to a little house

about four doors down, the five carousers on her heels like

a pack of puppies.

The Existentialist pauses in her hurried walk down Tenth

Street to examine Charlie with some interest.

The Existentialist goes up the two little steps to the front

door of the house and rings the bell.

The Existentialist waits composed and patient for someone to

answer her ring. Charlie has wandered back to Arnold and

Kenneth, and the three of them are now suffused with

laughter. Kenneth has been laughing so much, tears are

coming out of his eyes. He walks around in little circles

clutching his sides. Several passersby hurry by, noting the

strange little group on the sidewalk.

The door opens and a woman in a tea gown stands there

looking at The Existentialist and then at the five men on

the sidewalk. Behind her, there is evidence of a party going

on.

The other four carousers are laughing too much to even talk.

Charlie has ambled up to The Existentialist, who is peering

over her hostess into the room behind her.

The Existentialist looks into the young man's smiling,

rather winning face.

She turns abruptly and disappears past the hostess into the

room.

She backs into her house and closes the door. Eddie starts

up the steps to the door. The other four just roar with

laughter, clutch their sides, and giggle and snort.

INTERIOR. THE BACHELOR'S APARTMENT

Eddie is scowling over a home-style movie projector,

muttering over the intricacies of fitting a reel into the

ratchets. Arnold has suddenly become voluble and is gabbing

away at him. CAMERA DOLLIES AROUND THEM during the scene so

that we can see into the living room of the apartment,

appointed in simple but neat masculine taste, where the

other three men move in and out of view. Right now, we are

concerned only with Arnold and Eddie.

Kenneth comes back from the kitchen with three open bottles

of beer.

Walter is promptly up to turn off the lights.

The room is abruptly flooded in darkness. A beam of light

shoots out from the projector. It seems pointed at the

window. Arnold stands up directly in the shaft of light.

Arnold moves a step, still in the shaft of light, his shadow

huge on the wall. Eddie, muttering, jockeys the projector

around trying to focus it on the screen. The square of light

and some flickering images wander up and down a wall.

Walter crosses to light switch. The room is flooded in light

again.

Eddie is furiously winding and unwinding spools. CAMERA HAS

DOLLIED AROUND so that we are looking back up the living

room toward the projector and the men.

The room is flooded in darkness again. Walter hurries to a

chair. The square of light is reasonably focused, just an

edge trailing off onto the drapes of the window. Numbers

flicker quickly on on the screen. The rest of the scene we

see looking into the whitened faces of the five men at their

various posts. Arnold crosses, stands back of Walter.

He breaks off as apparently some interesting action has

started on screen. An involuntary grunt of acknowledgment

escapes him.

The side comments drift off for a moment, and a sort of

frozen attention settles on the white faces. Each face is

sort of set in a mold of determined disinterest, but the

eyes are all watching.

He wets his lips, lifts the bottle of beer to his mouth and

takes a swallow. His eyes never leave the screen.

INTERIOR. KITCHEN  CHARLIE AND HELEN'S APARTMENT

Helen standing in front of the laundry part of the sink,

doing her private laundry. She has on a house smock and her

sleeves are rolled up. The doorbell rings. Helen takes a

towel off the doorknob behind her and, wiping her hands,

comes down across the dining area to the front door. She

opens the door to admit a young woman, about eight years

older than Helen.

An abrupt, sad expression, tinged with pain, has come over

Julie's face. She looks down at the table.

Helen, aware that she has perhaps touched on a sensitive

subject, frowns and turns back to her washing. A quick,

thick silence dips into the room.

She looks down at her hands in her lap.

She stands, opens the pantry, looks around among the cans

and packages for a box of tea bags.

She puts the box of tea bags an the workshelf, unhooks a

saucepan hanging over the stove, turns to the sink and fills

it with water. Helen regards her, not quite knowing what to

say. Julie sets the saucepan going on the stove, stares at

it.

Her face, her whole body suddenly tightens to forestall any

possibility of breaking into tears, and she sits down

abruptly on the kitchen stool, her eyes clenched tight and

her face rigidly impassive. Helen remains nervously silent.

She stands abruptly and moves quickly past Helen out the

kitchen doorway into the dark living room, leaving Helen

standing troubled, concerned, in the kitchen. After a moment,

Helen moves to the kitchen doorway and a step out into the

dining area. She looks through the dark living room to the

gray silhouette of Julie standing by the living room window,

her form lightly outlined by a tracing of moonlight.

INTERIOR. BACHELOR'S APARTMENT (45 MINUTES LATER)

We are looking back up the living room as we were at the

close of the last scene in this apartment. The room is

absolutely dark now, but a light pours in from the foyer. In

this shaft of light, we can see Eddie moving from behind the

projector to the wall switch and turning on the lights. The

room is abruptly bright with light, and our five men squint

against the sudden glare. They have all changed their

positions and taken off their jackets and loosened their

ties. They are lolling about. CAMERA LOOKS DOWN TO THE FLOOR

to take particular note of eight empty beer bottles, an

opened fifth of bourbon, ash trays, crumpled packs of

cigarettes, a cup and saucer, somebody's shoes, somebody's

jacket that has fallen off the back of a chair. Over this

we hear Walter's voice:

A thick silence fills the room. There is a kind of sodden

feeling to this scene. After a long moment, Walter's voice

again:

We look down on the room now, at all five of the men, Eddie

rewinding the last reel, the little motor of the projector

humming. The others loll about, their legs dangling over the

armrests of the soft chairs and sofas. There is a heavy,

dense mood that no one seems willing to break.

Again the silence falls upon the five men. Only the humming

little motor interrupts the thick silence. Nobody moves.

Again the silence. Charlie stretches over for his bottle of

beer on the floor beside his chair. He pours what's left of

the bottle into the glass standing beside it. Otherwise

nobody moves.

The idea doesn't seem to propel anybody to any decisive

movement. Walter shifts his position on the sofa, stretches

out his legs, regards his shoes with a sudden sadness.

This gives everybody something to think about for a moment.

This brings a reaction. Walter stands.

Suddenly life is back in the room, the men ad-lib: "Where's

my coat?" "Let's get out of here," etc.

Ad libs on exit.

INTERIOR. LIVING ROOM CHARLIE AND HELEN'S APARTMENT

Helen and Julie. A corner lamp in the living room is lit,

lending a soft but not too effective light to the room. The

two young women are on the couch. Helen sits curled at one

end, head down listening to Julie, who has been talking and

probably crying a little since we last saw them forty-five

minutes ago. Julie is seated with her legs stretched out in

front of her, her head resting back on the back of the couch.

She is talking more freely and easily now, the first hard

outburst over with.

It is said simply, inevitably, even innocently. It brings

only a frown to Helen's face and a short silence.

Now, the thick, tense silence falls between them. They both

occupy themselves with their own troubled thoughts.

Again, they sink into silence. Then in the thick silence,

the telephone rings. The two young women are so deep within

their thoughts that neither of them moves. It rings again,

and Helen slides off the couch and goes to the phone. It

rings again. She picks it up.

INTERIOR. PHONE BOOTH IN EIGHTH STREET BAR

Charlie in the phone booth, smiling broadly. He seems in

wonderful spirits. Through the glass of the phone booth we

can see part of the bar and some of the barflies.

INTERIOR. THE FOYER

She rises, goes to kitchen door, still holding the phone.

She goes into the kitchen. A little embarrassed, she closes

the kitchen door.

INTERIOR. THE KITCHEN

She slowly hangs up the receiver, sits slumped and abject.

INTERIOR. PHONE BOOTH IN EIGHTH STREET BAR

Charlie in booth. The broad grin has disappeared from his

face. As seen through the closed glass doors of the booth,

he is a very sullen and despondent young man. He stands now,

pushes the doors open, and comes out. CAMERA PULLS BACK so

that we can see the whole area of the bar near the phone

booths. Next to the phone booth are two doors marked GUYS

and DOLLS. Kenneth is coming in from the deeper recesses of

the bar where the other members of the bachelor party are

grouped in a booth. He is headed for the door marked GUYS.

Charlie regards Kenneth bleakly as he approaches.

He pushes into the men's room after Kenneth.

INTERIOR. THE MEN'S ROOM

A small, white-tiled, yet somehow not too clean, men's room,

two-urinal size. There is one washbowl with a small mirror

over it, and two water closets with doors, separated from

each other by a steel partition. Charlie perches on the edge

of the washbowl; he apparently came in just to talk. Kenneth

moves off camera for more practical use of the room. CAMERA

stays on Charlie who seems depressed, pensive, sad. Stay on

him for a long moment. Then ...

Kenneth appears now, edges Charlie away from the wash basin,

so he can wash his hands.

Kenneth rips off a paper towel. The only noise for a moment

is the soft crumpling of paper as Kenneth dries his hands.

He breaks off abruptly, turning away with a sudden frown.

He ambles around the men's room, studying himself with

unseeing eyes in the little mirror, poking the trash can

into which Kenneth is now dropping his wadded paper towel.

He suddenly turns to Kenneth, stares at him. Kenneth looks

at him in mirror.

The door opens. Man enters to clean a spot off his tie.

The man, finished with his tie, exits.

Charlie waits a moment for Kenneth to continue, but

apparently this is all Kenneth has to offer at the moment.

The door to the men's room opens, and a Young Man comes in,

looks around quickly at Kenneth and Charlie -- bumps into

Kennie.

Charlie regards this statement a moment. Then advances to

the Young Man.

He is all set to bust the Young Man one in the nose, but

Kenneth takes him by the arm.

Charlie allows himself to be led to the door.

Kenneth reaches for the knob of the door, opens it, and the

two men go out. They find themselves in the crowded, noisy

bar. A jagged kind of intensity to the atmosphere as if some

of the men at the bar might be gangsters. Booths filled with

men and women and some mixed-up types. Kenneth and Charlie

make their way through the bodies down to one of the booths

where Eddie and Arnold are sitting and Walter is standing,

heavily drunk. Eddie is expostulating to Walter:

Walter sits heavily down.

Eddie turns to Charlie, who is still glowering.

EXTERIOR. THIRD STREET

The little stretch of strip-joints on Third Street. Bright

little cluster of honky-tonks.

EXTERIOR. THIRD STREET

Our bachelor party, now down to four carousers, ambles along

the rather filled sidewalk, looking at the cardboard cutouts

of the strippers in the windows of the night clubs.

The four men pause before one of the strip-joints, examining

the cardboard cutout and billboard which promises first-rate

entertainment inside.

INTERIOR. THIRD STREET NIGHT CLUB

We look down on the whole night club, showing the dark,

dingy, crowded, smallness of it. There is a strip going on.

It doesn't look very interesting.

Our four men are huddled over a very small table in one of

those Third Street clip-joints. It is a dark little hovel,

but a blue stage light drifts across the table, vaguely

illuminating our four celebrators. Behind them, a strip

tease is in progress. Every now and then, an almost stout

woman in her forties, garish in the blue spotlight, dressed

in a white satin ill-fitting gown, moves in and out of our

view. Half the tables and wall booths are occupied. There is

a horseshoe bar off in the recesses of the club. A three-

piece band is playing spiritlessly.

Walter is gone, deep in some painful, drunken world of his

own. Charlie rubs his eyes as if to keep his senses awake.

Arnold, who is soggy, is leaning toward Eddie, who alone of

the four men is giving any attention to the show.

Arnold turns to Charlie.

Arnold clumsily hauls out his wallet and extracts a picture.

He gives it to Charlie who twists at an angle in order to

get some light on it.

This gives Charlie pause.

He stands abruptly.

EXTERIOR. STREET -- NIGHT

Our four amble along Washington Square North, headed west.

In the background, the high apartment houses. It is about

midnight now, and there are a number of people around, and

there are lots of lights in the windows. There is still the

feeling of life. However, some of the wind has gone out of

our bachelor party since we last saw them carousing on

Lexington Avenue. Now, of course, there are only four of

them, and there is somewhat a feeling of straggling about

them.

EXTERIOR. STREET -- NIGHT

The four men straggle along Tenth Street east of Seventh

Avenue. This is a dark little street. Off at the

intersection, you can see Seventh Avenue and an occasional

car moving downtown, but West Tenth Street right now seems

an empty, sleeping street of dark and old little apartment

houses. The houses sometimes have little stoops. On one of

the stoops, there is a woman sitting. She is in her thirties,

not attractive nor unattractive. She wears a light summer

frock, and she has one shoe off, and she is toying with the

idea of pushing the other one off too. As the four men

approach her, she looks up, half quizzically, half

questioningly. The four men note her in passing and seem to

continue on, but then come to a dragging halt about ten

paces down.

CLOSE GROUP SHOT OF THE FOUR MEN.

Eddie looks back to the woman on the stoop. They all turn to

look. Actually, Charlie has ambled a few paces even further

down and doesn't know quite why they've stopped. They look

at the woman; the woman looks at them a little warily. Rest

of the scene from her point of view.

Arnold frowns.

With a scowl, he assumes the responsibility of being a man.

The four men, Charlie bringing up the rear, move down toward

The Woman, who now looks down at her feet and begins wiggling

her bare foot back into the unused shoe.

Eddie and Walter have already started down the street to

the bar.

Charlie scowls at the suggestion, but there is something

pleading in Arnold's face.

Charlie waves him away.

Charlie nods. Arnold looks briefly at The Woman and then

away again.

She turns and goes up the steps into the building, her

leather heels clicking on the stone steps. Arnold, head

down, and Charlie, a little sheepishly, follow her.

INTERIOR. THE HOUSE

A dark, ill-lit hallway. A flight of stairs going up, wooden

railings, worn carpeting. The Woman starts up the stairs,

the two men following her.

Arnold, wetting his lips, nods. The Woman reaches the first

landing.

INTERIOR. LANDING

The Woman has come around to one of the three doors on the

landing and is inserting a key into a lock. Arnold and

Charlie appear now at the head of the stairway. The Woman

goes into her room, leaving the door open. A moment later,

a shaft of light streams out into the landing. For a moment,

nothing happens. Then Arnold and Charlie amble slowly down

the landing to the open doorway and shaft of light.

Arnold nods and goes into the room. He closes the door.

Charlie takes out a cigarette and lights it and inhales

deeply. He feels a little sordid. There is the sound of

steps, muffled by the carpeting, coming down the stairs. A

man appears coming down from the floor above. He gives

Charlie a quick look and continues on down the landing to

the stairs and down again. Charlie scowls at the floor. He

smokes his cigarette.

INTERIOR. THE WOMAN'S ROOM

It is a furnished room for which the woman pays eleven

dollars a week. It is not particularly unkempt or tarty.

There is a print slipcover on the soft chair and flowers on

an end table. There is a studio couch with a neat spread and

throw pillows on it. The Woman stands expressionlessly in

front of the old chest of drawers. She has kicked off one

shoe and she is now kicking off the other. She starts to say

something:

She stops abruptly as Arnold, who is sitting, eyes averted,

on a straight-back wooden chair, suddenly stands up and

moves toward the door.

Arnold's lips open to form words, but nothing comes out, and

he clamps his mouth tight and just stands, miserable and

wretched. His hand makes a nervous, spasmodic, involuntary

gesture, and he quickly clenches his fist. Beads of sweat

are on his forehead.

Arnold's head has started to shake nervously, and he opens

the door and steps out into the landing. The Woman,

beginning to get angry, follows him.

INTERIOR. LANDING

Charlie looks up at the opening of the door and Arnold's

entrance. The Woman stands in the doorway. Arnold moves

quickly past Charlie about halfway down the landing, white-

faced and trembling.

She turns angrily, goes back into her room (ad libbing as

she crosses) and slams the door. Charlie moves down the

landing to Arnold, who looks at him wide-eyed, almost in

terror.

He has taken Arnold's arm and would lead him down the

stairs, but Arnold pauses again at the first step.

Charlie frowns, then shrugs.

They both sit slowly on the steps. Arnold is still trembling

from the whole terrifying experience.

A man's voice suddenly calls down from an upper floor.

Charlie sits. CAMERA MOVES UP CLOSER to both men. The whole

experience has depressed Charlie, and it shows on his face.

CAMERA PULLS SLOWLY BACK so that we get the small, sordid

feeling of the two men, somewhat tight, sitting on a dirty

ill-lit staircase outside a whore's bedroom.

INTERIOR. CORNER BAR

Neighborhood bar with about ten people in it. Eddie and

Walter are two of them. Eddie is playing on one of those

bowling machines. He seems surly, ill-tempered, restless.

Walter, who is so drunk he is sober, looks up at Eddie with

blurred eyes.

He turns as the door to the bar opens and Charlie and Arnold

come in.

Charlie is off his seat and ready to belt Eddie one right on

the spot. There is abruptly the imminent reality of a fist

fight. The two men are just sullen enough. Arnold hurriedly

intercedes.

For a moment, the sudden, thick hostility fills the silence

in the room. Nobody says anything. Walter is soddenly

preoccupied with his own thoughts. Arnold is shaken from his

recent experience with The Woman and from the flaring of

tempers. Charlie just sits bleakly examining a book of

matches he is toying with, trying to bring his temper down.

After a moment, he mutters:

Eddie suddenly, sulkily strides for the door of the bar.

Arnold shrugs. Eddie has started for the door already.

Charlie wearily gets off his stool, starts to follow Eddie

out. Walter takes his arm.

CLOSEUP of Walter

The sad little party files wearily out of the bar, Arnold

pausing at the bar to pay for the drinks.

INTERIOR. FOURTEENTH STREET CROSSTOWN SUBWAY

LONG SHOT looking down through the length of one almost

empty car, through the open door at the end of the car,

down into the next almost empty car. Just a few people

riding the subway at this hour, half past eleven on a

week-day. But down in the second car, we can see our four

cavaliers. Eddie, Arnold, and Charlie are sitting. Our

attention is most caught by Walter, who is heavily drunk and

weaves and lurches up and down the central aisle of the car.

We cannot hear if he is saying anything.

CLOSE SHOT Walter weaving up and down the aisle of the car.

He stumbles on the toes of a man in a windbreaker, sitting

in the car.

Walter stands in front of Charlie, his lips moving, but no

words coming out for a moment. There are tears in his eyes,

and all the pain and anguish of the man's forty-eight years

are clear on his face.

Charlie reaches up to steady Walter, who has worked himself

up into a lurching fury.

The train is slowing up for a station now.

He turns to look at the station they are edging into, the

yellow lights, the dark shadows, the few blurred faces. His

face is wet with the tiny rivulets left by tears.

The train stops, the green doors slide open.

A few people come into the car. Walter stands, shoulders

hunched and sagging, in front of the open doors.

Walter steps out onto the platform. Just in time, because

the doors are beginning to slide closed again.

On the platform, Walter has started to weave slowly up the

platform toward the stairway.

But Walter has already reached the stairway and, clinging to

the handrail, has started slowly climbing the steps. The

train starts slowly up. Arnold has stood now too. He is

pretty soggy himself.

The train is sweeping by the stairway now. Charlie bellows

out:

The train has swept by, and in a moment they have been

plunged into the tunnel of the subway, the bleak dirty white

walls, and the small yellow lights flashing by. Charlie sits

down, somehow greatly shaken and disturbed.

CLOSE IN on Charlie.

CLOSEUP of Charlie. Hold for a moment.

EXTERIOR. FOURTEENTH STREET AND FIRST AVENUE

We look down at the subway kiosk as our sad little party of

three comes up the stairs to the sidewalk. It is midnight,

and the street is occasionally patrolled by a taxicab. The

sidewalks are pretty empty, just a few people walking.

Perhaps a drugstore is still open, and its lonely lit store

front catches the eye.

Our three men stand at the head of the stairs at the subway

kiosk, drained, tired, a little despondent. Charlie looks up

at the dim silhouettes of the endless apartment houses of

Stuyvesant Town.

LONG SHOT of Stuyvesant Town as seen from their point of

view. PAN SLOWLY ACROSS, capturing the silent monotony of

the dark buildings. Only a few of the windows are still lit.

The three men just stand, worn out, tired.

He starts to walk to the buildings, across the little street

that separates the corner of Fourteenth Street and First

Avenue from the parallel corner of the housing project.

Charlie turns.

Eddie has to take a moment to consider this. Then he

shuffles across the little street toward Charlie. Charlie

doesn't quite wait for him to catch up when he turns and

leads the way between two cars and up the sidewalk toward

the promenade that leads to the heart of the project.

Arnold, after a moment, follows Eddie. The three men

disappear single-file into the darkness of Stuyvesant Town.

INTERIOR. LANDING OUTSIDE CHARLIE'S APARTMENT

We are looking at the twin elevator doors. The light of an

elevator climbs into the little square window of one of the

elevator doors. The door opens, and Charlie, Eddie, and

Arnold shuffle out into the landing. They are all a little

soggy.

He moves around the turn of the wall, fishes in his pocket

for the key to his apartment. He finds it, brings it out,

opens the door carefully, goes into his apartment.

INTERIOR. CHARLIE AND HELEN'S APARTMENT

Charlie comes in. The dining area is lit, and there is the

lamp lit in the living room. As Charlie moves to the living

room, we can see that Helen is seated on the couch,

watching television. The gray-white light of the television

set drifts out into the room. Helen is in her pajamas and

she has washed for bed; her face is devoid of make-up. She

is half-watching television; the rest of her attention is

devoted to cutting her fingernails and other aspects of

manicure. She looks up as Charlie comes into the living

room, smiles.

Charlie shrugs. He is depressed and can't conceal it.

He stands by the couch now, without interest, automatically

watching the television set.

A kind of ennui has engulfed him. He stands, watching the

television set out of which is now pouring the end of an

animated cartoon commercial. Then the familiar tinkling

music sets in, the inscription, "The Late Show" appears on

the screen, and the announcer's voice informs us that we are

now going back to the late show, starring Rex Harrison in

"Strictly Dishonorable." The whole thing brings a wince of

pain to Charlie's face, and he turns and moves wearily

through the little foyer into the darkened bedroom. Enough

light flows in from the other rooms to show Charlie going to

the drawer in the chest of drawers and taking out a

ten-dollar bill. He returns the other bills, closes the

drawer and just stands there, suddenly so weak and exhausted

that he has to steady himself with one hand on the chest of

drawers.

Back in the living room, Helen still sits, a slight frown

now indicating she is sensitive to the deeply depressed mood

her husband is in. She continues with her nails for a moment.

Then, wondering what is keeping her husband, she stands and

goes to the bedroom doorway and looks in.

INTERIOR. THE BEDROOM

Charlie is seated on the bed, hunched, in deep depression.

He is holding the ten-dollar bill. His eyes are open, but

there is a feeling of hurt and pain on his face. Helen moves

quietly into the bedroom and sits down on the bed beside him.

He shrugs, even smiles briefly.

She puts out her hand as if to take his head and press it

against her, but he takes her in his arms almost desperately,

and they lie back on the bed, clutching each other, their

faces pressed against each other, seeking some kind of

strength just from the sheer physical closeness of each

other.

They lie quietly, even stiffly, holding each other.

He releases himself from his wife's embrace and sits up.

He stands and starts out the bedroom.

She doesn't answer. She doesn't have to. They both know what

she means.

She turns away on the bed to hide the sudden flush of tears.

She closes her eyes again to hide the warm flow of tears in

her eyes and stops talking rather than cry. Charlie sits,

unmoved and wretched, his shoulders hunched, his head

slumped forward. After a moment, he turns and reaches

forward, quite frightened, to touch her arm.

He stands and goes to the bedroom window and looks out.

Helen turns on her side so that her back is to him. At the

sound of her moving, Charlie turns his head, but sensing the

rejection in her back, he turns back and looks out the

window again. The silence is thick between them.

He stands another moment.

Helen neither moves nor makes a response. Charlie goes on

into the living room and shuffles to the front door, his

long body heavy with pain and guilt and dense, unknown

terrors. He opens the door and goes out onto the landing.

INTERIOR. LANDING

Eddie and Arnold, looking up as the door opens and Charlie

comes out.

Eddie takes Arnold's arm and guides him back around the turn

of the wall to the elevators. Charlie follows a few paces

behind. Eddie pushes both elevator buttons. Charlie nods,

looks down at the tiling at his feet, fairly sick within

himself, oppressed and guilty. The light in the elevator

window shows, and Eddie opens the door.

Charlie shuffles the few paces forward and follows Eddie and

Arnold into the elevator. The door closes, and, a moment

later, the light of the elevator cage disappears downward.

INTERIOR. GREENWICH VILLAGE DUPLEX APARTMENT

This is one of those duplex apartments on West Tenth Street

which consists of one huge living room that is two stories

high and you need a little rolling stepladder to reach the

books on the upper shelves of the built-in bookcases. There

is a little wrought-iron stairway that leads to the second

floor, which consists of two tiny little bedrooms.

Apartments like these, as is the case in this one, are

usually lived in by two girls, one of whom is a secretary in

an advertising agency and the other a model for a garment

manufacturing firm. Both girls are in their early thirties

and are milling about somewhere in the mass of people in the

living room, carrying drinks, laughing up a storm, pausing

at the little knots of discussion groups with an apt phrase.

They rather think of themselves as Madame de Staels with

their own salon of bright young people, for most of the men

and women at the party are in some way connected with the

arts, probably in an avant garde way. It is a little

difficult to tell this by looking at them because avant

garde artists have become obsessed with dressing like

businessmen, but if you can hear the talk as we can, you get

the point fast enough. We pick up phrases like: "I really

find it difficult to think of Tennessee Williams as a

serious artist," or "My teacher thinks all tenors are frogs

except Gigli," or "I don't see how you can say that; his

designs fairly throb with sex." There are, as Eddie

predicted, a number of people sitting on the floor, mostly

girls, circled in the swirl of their Ann Fogarty dresses,

and there is one obvious ballerina, with her black hair

pulled tightly back into a severe pony tail, using the

wrought-iron railing that separates the dropped living room

from the small entrance foyer to demonstrate something about

positions at the dancing bar. There is someone at the piano

banging away, shouting his songs, but he is completely

inaudible five feet away. A few people lean over the piano,

apparently exhilarated by the songs. Thin blankets of smoke

wreathe their way up to the two-story-high ceiling. We catch

some more phrases: "I thought Truman Capote was supposed to

be here." -- "Truman's in Russia, I think." -- "Good

heavens, what can the Russians want with Truman Capote?" --

"Oh, I never read anything published in this country." "Oh,

I mean, the paper-bound Paris edition." In short, this is a

real chi-chi wingding where all the furniture is too low,

and the hostess is very proud of the fact that her end table

is made out of an orange crate.

Somewhere, through the jumble of the party, we can hear the

doorbell chime. A young woman, at one of the little knots of

people, perks her ears and says:

She's very proud of this. She turns and weaves her way

through the crowded room, carrying her drink. She goes up

the step to the entrance foyer, turns to her left, picks her

way over two middle-aged men who are both throwing a pitch

at a fairly tight girl of eighteen, past the kitchen, which

is a bedlam of ice cubes and kitchen towels and which is

occupied at the moment by two intense women in their late

thirties wrapped in deep discussion, up past two young men

who have no immediate use for girls, to the front door of

the apartment. She opens the door.

GROUP SHOT of Eddie, Arnold, and Charlie from the Hostess's

point of view. Not exactly a heartening sight to most

hostesses, three fairly loaded young men with their collars

unbuttoned and their ties limp and dangling.

They enter a little warily and ill-at-ease, peering into the

jammed room.

Eddie spreads his arms in all-inclusive expansiveness.

But the hostess has already bent to chat with two women, one

old, one young, sitting on the floor. Our three cavaliers

look at each other and then look out over the wild, jumbled

room.

A passing young man who overhears this, pokes his head into

the group and says to Charlie with a flashing smile:

Charlie regards the smiling young chap.

The chap's smile flashes off and he scurries away. Eddie

rubs his palms and surveys the women in the crowded room

with a measuring eye.

Wetting his lips, he starts out for some girl he has decided

on across the room.

INTERIOR. GREENWICH VILLAGE APARTMENT -- HALF HOUR LATER

HIGH SHOT showing progress of party, still crowded, still

high. If we look sharp we can see Charlie seated on the

floor in the rear of the shot, his back against the wall.

CLOSER SHOT of Charlie sitting morosely, back against the

wall, regarding his drink with sodden eyes. The chatter of

the party, an occasional shrill laugh.

FULL SHOT of Eddie coming out of the kitchen, carrying two

drinks. He picks his way through the people to the living

room with the general intention of getting to the

arrangement of divans around the coffee table, when he spots

Charlie and moves across to him.

Their point of view, The Existentialist on steps with

landlord.

Charlie nods as Eddie moves off. He returns his morose

attention back to his glass of liquor. Then his eyes close,

and his face, though impassive, shows pain. After a moment,

he opens his eyes and slowly clambers to his feet and makes

his way, a little unsteadily, through the living room in the

direction of the kitchen. In the background we can hear the

piano and somebody singing indistinguishable lyrics. Charlie

gets to the kitchen door and looks in. Arnold is at the tiny

kitchen table, head on the table, out cold. The kitchen is

in a state of havoc.

Arnold makes no answer. Charlie regards his prostrated

friend expressionlessly for a moment. Then turns and

shuffles aimlessly back to the group around the piano in the

living room. He looks over to the stairway again. The

Existentialist is alone now, The Landlord having gone for

the moment. She is looking at Charlie, and he drops his eyes.

He turns away from the piano and moves out a few steps into

the middle of the living room. He moves to the stairway.

The Existentialist looks up at him as he approaches, Charlie

kind of nods to her, and, for a moment, she just sits and he

just stands. Then ...

Charlie has been sort of half-listening to all this. His

attention, if any at all, has been vaguely given to the

girl's bare arms, the lines of her body.

Charlie bends down to her, takes her arm.

Charlie straightens with an irritated sigh.

He stands, she sits in sullen silence.

She starts up the stairs, Charlie following close behind her.

They pick their way past the other people sitting on the

stairs to the second-floor landing. They walk in hostile

silence down the landing to the bedroom door, which she

opens.

INTERIOR. THE BEDROOM

It is a tiny bedroom. The bed is covered with purses and

summer stoles and other guest things. An uncovered,

improvised closet, really a rack of hanging dresses and

things, gives the room an overburdened look. Charlie comes

into the room after her, closes the door, looks for the

latch. She pushes some of the things on the bed aside and

sits down and waits while Charlie latches the door, a matter

of turning a bent nail into locking position. She begins to

prattle again.

Charlie has stood a moment, listening to this bizarre story.

Then he has busied himself cleaning a place beside The

Existentialist on the bed. He brings an end to the rococo

narration by putting his arms around The Existentialist and

in a moment, she responds hungrily.

CLOSEUP of Charlie and The Existentialist in a desperate

embrace.

He tries to kiss her again, himself charged high at the

moment, but she turns her face away from him. The dialogue

is intense, whispered, hungry.

She turns abruptly and goes out the door. He stands for a

moment and then follows. He stands on the upper landing,

watching her pick her way down the stairs into the living

room.

She looks quickly around the room, apparently finds whom she

is looking for, and moves quickly to a little group of men,

one of whom is about sixty years old with a thin elegance

and a cruel face, the landlord. He has several young men

around him, all rather frail, Ivy-Leagueish. She joins the

group, to the distaste of the young men, and is immediately

voluble and gesticulatory. After a moment, Charlie lets his

eyes wander over the room, apparently sees Eddie.

Apparently, Eddie doesn't hear him. Charlie frowns and

begins making his own way down the stairs to the living room.

INTERIOR. LIVING ROOM -- GREENWICH VILLAGE APARTMENT

Charlie moves down the stairs into the living room proper.

He makes his way to Eddie, who is still sitting in the back

of the room, throwing an intense pitch at his girl, talking

quickly, smiling, gesturing.

He starts off after Charlie who is already wandering through

the living room in the general direction of the kitchen,

looking about for Arnold. They pass The Existentialist en

route. She is saying: "... this boy named Charlie, I never

saw him before in my life, has been clutching at me all

evening. He's absolutely insane about me." Charlie leans

into the kitchen where Arnold is awake now, seated at the

small kitchen table, staring gauntly, unseeingly at his

fingers on the white porcelain-topped table. There are two

men, one middle-aged, one young, having a whispered chat

over the sink.

Arnold stands obediently, almost dumbly. He squeezes around

the table, his face soddenly expressionless, to join Eddie

and Charlie in the kitchen doorway. Eddie is saying to

Charlie:

The three men push their way past three women in their

thirties, who are standing in the little hallway before the

front door, in earnest brow-furrowed conversation with each

other. Charlie opens the door, and the three morose

carousers go out into the dark street.

EXTERIOR. GREENWICH VILLAGE APARTMENT -- NIGHT

The three carousers come out into the street. The door

closes behind them. The night air is hot and muggy. They

walk down the street toward the corner where only the light

of the corner bar gives any indication of life. There is a

newspaper on the sidewalk which Eddie bends down to pick up,

and the three men straggle to a halt. Eddie opens the paper

to the sports pages and starts to read by the light of the

street lamp. Arnold moves a step to the lamp and leans

against it. Charlie stands in the middle of the sidewalk, a

melancholy, pondering young man. The evening seems to have

come to a dead halt. After a moment, Eddie starts walking

again, reading the paper as he does. The others slowly

gather themselves and follow him.

INTERIOR. THE CORNER BAR

A wall clock reading twenty-five minutes to three. CAMERA

PANS DOWN the wall. We are in the bar on the corner of Tenth

and Sixth, almost entirely empty except for Charlie, Eddie,

Arnold, and the bartender. The three carousers are leaning

wearily on the bar over their beers; the only other person

in the bar is a worn, battered old veteran of the streets, a

woman in her forties, bespectacled, who is perched on a bar

stool at the far end of the bar, gloomily reading a

newspaper. CAMERA MOVES DOWN and IN on Charlie, Eddie, and

Arnold.

Arnold lowers his head, and he rises, loses his precarious

balance and moves backward a few lurching steps.

Arnold weaves slowly up the bar to the two phone booths at

the far end of the counter. Then walks out of shot.

The bartender decides to take issue.

There is a sudden bellow off.

Eddie and Charlie slowly turn to look in Arnold's direction.

CAMERA PANS to see Arnold from their point of view, a

wavering, drunken young man standing in front of the phone

booths.

Arnold staggers a few paces into the center of the empty bar.

Then, suddenly, effortlessly, Arnold sinks down onto the

floor -- out cold. For a moment, Eddie and Charlie regard

the prostrate form.

Eddie and Charlie move to Arnold, lying curled stiffly on

the floor.

The two men contrive to lift Arnold and get him onto a stool.

Charlie turns to him, a cold fury in him.

Arnold manages, with Charlie's arm, to get out of the booth

and stand. Charlie's firm arm holds him, and they start for

the exit. Eddie watches the two figures making their way

down the length of the bar to the door. They exit. The door

shuts behind them. For a moment, Eddie regards the closed

door. Then he shuffles to the bar, back to his schooner of

beer and looks at it without taking it up. He is profoundly

weary. His shoulders slump, his face sags. He runs his hand

down his face and shakes his head as if to clear it. He

turns and looks down to the other end of the bar where the

Bar Hag sits engrossed in her newspaper. He watches her for

a moment.

The Bar Hag slowly turns to regard him over the rim of her

glasses.

Bleakly, Eddie shuffles slowly down the long length of the

bar to where the battered old woman sits.

EXTERIOR. THE BAR -- NIGHT

HIGH ANGLE SHOT looking down on the sidewalk immediately

outside the bar Arnold and Charlie have just come out of.

There is a house with a small stoop, and Arnold is standing

slumped by the stoop, holding himself up by the iron railing.

He is being sick, quietly retching. Charlie is standing a few

paces away from him in the middle of the sidewalk, a deeply

unhappy figure in his own right. From our angle, we may or

may not be able to tell that Charlie is crying.

CLOSE SHOT of Charlie standing in the middle of the sidewalk

of Sixth Avenue and Tenth Street, the whole dark world around

him, silent and empty. He is crying quietly, unashamedly, his

shoulders shaking ever so little.  Behind him, Arnold is bent

over the railing of the stoop, weak and spent.

ANOTHER SHOT of the two men. Charlie stops crying, sighs, and

starts toward Arnold.

Arnold nods weakly. Charlie gets out a handkerchief and

gives it to Arnold who begins to weakly clean his chin and

spots on his suit.

Arnold shakes his head weakly "no."

Arnold nods weakly. Charlie puts his arm supportively around

his friend's back, but Arnold makes no move yet, being

thoroughly drained.

There is a clicking of high heels on concrete pavement, and

Charlie looks up. The Existentialist has just come out of

the party several houses down and has come up a few steps

and is standing watching them. She has her bag and her light

summer stole. She nods to Charlie, sort of smiles, moves a

few steps closer to them.

The two men start slowly down the street to the corner.

Arnold leaning heavily on his friend. The Existentialist

stands, watching them a moment.

REVERSE SHOT Charlie and Arnold just about getting to the

corner. Charlie hasn't heard her.

FULL SHOT of The Existentialist watching them disappear

around the corner. Then she turns, and, wetting her lips,

she hurries back to the house where the party is.

INTERIOR. BMT SUBWAY -- HURTLING NORTHWARD

Half past three, and the car is absolutely empty except for

Charlie and Arnold. Arnold is sprawled across the straw seat,

one leg buckled beneath him, the other on the floor. He is

sleeping heavily. Charlie sits expressionlessly, obviously

involved in deep introspection. The car buckets along into

the night.

INTERIOR. QUEENS APARTMENT HOUSE

Arnold and Charlie coming up to a landing. It is the third

floor; we can see enough of the corridor to see two

apartment doors, lettered "3D" and "3C." A small overhead

bulb provides a thin sketchy light. Charlie and Arnold

shuffle down the landing to apartment 3D. They pause outside

the door. The scene is played in low mutters and whispers.

Arnold is a little embarrassed by his friend's display of

emotion and, frankly, hasn't understood a word Charlie was

talking about.

But he is talking to an empty staircase. Charlie has plunged

down into the darkness of the floor below. Arnold turns and

sighs and shuffles back to the door of his apartment. He

rings the bell lightly, takes a deep breath. A moment, and

the door opens. A girl of about thirty-five, bespectacled,

rather plain, with a sensitive face, stands in the doorway.

Arnold stands, his head down in shame.

She looks anxiously over Arnold's shoulder to see if anyone

else is there. Arnold lumbers past her into the apartment.

Voices, both male and female, pop out at him. "What's the

matter with you, are you crazy?" "What's the matter with

you?" "For heaven's sakes, where have you been?" ... The

door closes.

EXTERIOR. STUYVESANT TOWN HOUSING PROJECT

LONG SHOT looking down the wide courtyard of Stuyvesant Town,

its endless little pathways winding from the various

apartment house doors to the central pathway which leads to

a stairway to the street. It is half past five in the morning.

The sky is gray and desolate. The courtyard and any other

street we see is absolutely empty. THE CAMERA PANS OVER this

empty expanse to the stairway where Charlie appears now,

coming quickly up the steps. He moves down the central

sidewalk, a little faster than he would usually walk; you have

the feeling he is exerting an effort to keep from running.

CAMERA PANS with him as he hurries to one of the winding side

lanes leading to a particular apartment house.

INTERIOR. CHARLIE AND HELEN'S APARTMENT

MEDIUM SHOT looking from the foyer of the apartment across

the dining area to the front door. The apartment is dark.

The door opens and Charlie comes in. He closes the door

quietly after himself and moves a few steps into the

apartment. He stops when he sees Helen seated on the couch,

wearing a kimono over her pajamas. She stands; she has been

crying.

She moves slowly to him and puts her head on his chest and

cries quietly. He holds her tightly.

CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY UP AND AWAY from the young couple,

holding each other closely and tightly, murmuring to each

other in the dark living room of a two-and-a-half-room

apartment in a housing project.

