BLACK

We HEAR "Waltzing Matilde," by Tom Waits.

INT. MUSEUM OF MODERN ART - DAY (DREAM SEQUENCE IN GRAINY BLACK

AND WHITE)

Fade out music.

Silence.

A well-dressed black BOY and his MOTHER walk through several

galleries.

They stand before Picasso's "Guernica," holding hands.

The mother is disturbed. Crying.

The boy looks up, confused and frightened, concerned to see his

mother crying in public. She looks at him tenderly.

Her brow furrows. She stops crying. She stares just above his

eyes.

Something's happening: she looks with wonder at the top of his

head... his eyes roll upward, trying to see - it's a crown!

He raises his hands. He touches it.

A beam of light illuminates the crown, casting its glow on his

mother's face.

The beam gets whiter, the rest of the screen gets black.

INT. CARDBOARD BOX

Silence. In darkness, we hear a VOICE - imbued with a sense of

its own history:

The beam of light shines through a small hole. It falls upon a

sleeping, dreaming, delighted face. It belongs to JEAN MICHEL

BASQUIAT.

OUTDOOR, DAYTIME SOUNDS filter in.

Hearing the voice, Jean frowns at being woken up.

EXT. TOMPKINS SQUARE PARK - DAY

A long, rectangular cardboard box.

SUPER: "NEW YORK CITY"

ANGLE ON:

RENE RICARD (early 30's), seated at a park bench, hunched over a

notebook. He's a raggedy dandy: A poet in a hooded sweatshirt and

white hightops.

As he writes, he reads aloud, as if addressing Posterity.

Beyond him, a HAND gropes its way out of the box. It tosses a can

of YOOHOO chocolate drink.

A HEAD appears from the box. It's Jean's.

Jean sees the start of a crisp, colorful autumn day. The urban

park around him is alive with a typically full range of the good

and bad in life. He eases himself out of the oversize box in

which he has spent the night. There's something about the way

that he stands while waking up that suggests he's almost

surprised at his own body, the adultness of his limbs - just a

subtle hint of him coming out of a dream.

He squints in the sunlight. He has a soft, gentle, Haitian face.

His hair is pulled tight to his head. He wears two pairs of blue

jeans (one cut like chaps over the other) a paint-covered

Wesleyan University T-shirt, and the inside lining of an

overcoat. His appearance is unruly, but it's deliberate. He's

stylish.

He shakes himself off and collects his stuff, which includes: a

small book of Pontormo drawings, a can of black spray paint. and

a cigar box made into a loudspeaker with pencil holes and masking

tape.

Jean walks out of the park and looks up past the buildings at the

sky:

SUPERIMPOSED IN THE SKY - STOCK FOOTAGE OF A HAWAIIAN SURFER

Jean sees the surfer, 'riding the nose' in glistening, shimmering

sunlight.

EXT. TOMPKINS SQUARE PARK - DAY

Rene grabs the box for use as a desk and continues to speak out

loud as he writes.

EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE ST. - DAY

As he speaks, we see Jean pass the wall of a funeral parlor. He

spraypaints: "SAMO AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO GOD"

Jean signs his words with his 'logo', a triple pointed crown.

As he presses the spray can, we HEAR the roar of a breaker.

INSERT: CLOSEUP OF SIDEWALK

Pressed into the concrete is a pair of EYEGLASSES. A light-

colored piece of rock completes the picture to make a face.

EXT. LESHKO'S RESTAURANT - DAY

JEAN'S POV: His shoes pause next to the face in the concrete.

IN FRONT OF THE RESTAURANT

Is a METAL BILLBOARD with red plastic magnetized LETTERS that

reads: "TODAY'S SPECIAL: CLAM CHOWDER $1.50. TRY IT!!!"

INT. LESHKO'S - DAY

Jean enters.

EXT. LESHKO'S RESTAURANT - DAY

The sign. It now reads: "SAMO'S DAY OLD TEETH $5.00"

INT. LESHKO'S RESTAURANT - DAY

Bending over a countertop, we see GINA CARDINALE, 22. He fixates

on her.

She looks up and notices his stare. She continues to work.

Still staring at her, he sits down at a table. He pours maple

syrup onto the table. He draws in the syrup with his fingers.

CLOSE ON SYRUP ON TABLE

ANOTHER WAITRESS arrives at his table. She's put off by the

syrup.

Jean thinks about it, eyes still following Gina.

He looks up at the waitress.

She leaves and whispers something to Gina. Gina turns and glances

over at Jean.

Jean pours more syrup and starts writing his name.

At the grill, LESHKO, the burly Owner/Cook, has his watchful eye

on Jean. He doesn't like what he sees.

Jean smears the syrup thinly, so it doesn't erase itself. He

draws a picture of Gina, using his fingers and the silverware,

rendering her last expression strikingly with a few quick lines.

A GAUNT YOUNG MAN saunters up to Jean's table. He's sort of a

tall Puerto Rican Alain Delon with sleepy eyes. He is BENNY.

Suddenly, Rene Ricard enters - a one-man parade. He beckons to

Gina, snapping his fingers.

Rene lands at the counter.

Jean's gaze is still on Gina.

She waits on a MAN at a nearby table.

She hurries past Jean.

She slows down, not wanting to.

She looks at her portrait in the syrup... She can't resist

smiling.

Gina smiles. She offers him one. As she holds it out, their eyes

lock. She tries to resist his smile.

She puts her finger in the syrup and licks it off.

Benny takes it all in.

Leshko is upon them.

He waves Jean toward the door.

Jean takes Gina's rag and begins cleaning his mess, seemingly

compliant.

He brings out a roll of dimes to the tabletop and splits it open.

Dimes roll all over the table and stick in the syrupy parts. The

manager explodes.

Gina quietly removes her apron in disbelief.

Benny gets up to leave very casually.

GINA AND JEAN

Leave the restaurant.

Behind them, we see Rene, absorbed in his writing.

EXT. AVE. A - DAY

They stand outside, not knowing quite what comes next.

Jean gives Benny a look (i.e. 'scram').

Benny leaves.

A CHILLY WIND picks up.

Jean's mood is suddenly downcast.

They button up their overcoats, about to leave.

The truth is, he feels awful for causing Gina's trouble, but

shows it by moping like a child.

Gina walks away.

He runs after her.

Gina turns and looks back at Jean.

He catches up to her.

Gina notices a dead leaf in his hair and picks it out.

He leans forward, offering his neck.

He writes her number on his pant cuff with a big fat magic

marker.

He hands her the small speaker.

She takes it.

She admires the speaker watches him walk off.

EXT. MENTAL HOSPITAL (OUTSIDE THE CITY)

We see Jean crossing a lawn outside a mental hospital.

INT. MENTAL HOSPITAL - RECREATION / VISITING ROOM - DAY

PSYCH. PATIENTS fill a cavernous day-room engaged in arts and

crafts. Some of the sadder patients stare off into space as Jean

crosses the room. He carries a plate of cookies and a full glass

of milk.

He approaches a sad, nice-looking, middle-aged black woman - the

same one from the dream, earlier. She sits alone fondling a

pillow in her lap. It's his mother, MATILDE. She doesn't see him

coming.

As he sets the plate in front of her, she notices him. She

recognizes him and seems pleased, even in her isolation. He

kisses her on the cheek.

She smiles slightly.

Jean takes a cookie. She does likewise.

They eat in silence, looking at each other, communicating what

they can.

Time passes. In between cookies her fingers find and break the

stems of the pillow feathers.

His mother brightens. She drinks the milk. They finish the

cookies.

INT. CARDBOARD BOX - NIGHT

Jean tries to sleep in the box. RAIN falls heavily onto it.

Drops of water hit his face.

He wills it to stop. It doesn't.

Finally, he can't stand it. Rain forces his blinking eyes open.

INT. BENNY'S APARTMENT -     NIGHT

A door opens to reveal Jean's wet face.

Benny lets him in.

Jean enters a rundown railroad flat crammed with musical

instruments, beer cans, and homemade art. There's a couch with a

sheet over it.

Junk is piled in a corner - mostly art books and drawings.

Benny sits down at an electric piano, which he's evidently

playing. He sings along, softly, working out the words,

concentrating, absorbed.

Jean sets his belongings on the couch, walks to a mic stand and

starts making up his own words.

Benny turns off the piano and lights a roach, angry at Jean's

self-centeredness.

Jean digs through a pile of garbage. Finally, he finds what he's

looking for - a pile of "SAMO baseball cards" - color Xeroxes of

his favorite images and words. He pockets them.

He hands Jean a slip of paper. He notices the number on Jean's

pants.

Benny grins. He grabs a basketball and spins it expertly on his

index finger.

Jean turns on the TV. He notices the roach. He picks up the paper

Benny gave him with the message from his father and sets it on

fire.

He lights the roach with it.

He looks up; on television, we see a BUM being interviewed. Jean

turns up the volume.

The bum's on the ground, looking beat up. Jean picks up a pocket

recorder and turns it on:

Jean mutes the sound on the TV. He rewinds and proudly plays back

the words "Boom, for real."

He picks up the phone and dials. He turns on the speakerphone.

Jean holds the recorder to the speaker as someone answers the

phone. (Jean walks in and out of frame throughout the following.)

Jean opens his notepad and looks down a long list of seemingly

random words. He comes to the words (in order) "liquid, hijack,"

and "Marlboros."

Jean spies an electric pencil sharpener and plugs it in.

He jams a pencil into the electric sharpener and holds the

receiver right next to it, giving the guy an earful:

RRRRKKKKKKK!!!

ANGLE ON

CLOSE UP - A speaker. It fills the screen.

We continue to hear:

CAMERA PULLS BACK FROM SPEAKER TO REVEAL:

INT. MUDD CLUB - HALLOWEEN NIGHT

Jean and Benny are on stage with two other GUYS, members of the

band Gray. Everyone but Jean is dressed in some sort of Halloween

costume.

We HEAR the words "Boom, for real" blasting from the P.A. system.

What follows is a continuation, a collage of words from Jean's

"suicide hotline" call -

Jean sits in a chair onstage with his band members. Benny plays

the organ. The other band members play percussion and guitar.

It works. The crowd loves it.

The song ends abruptly.

We begin to hear James Brown's "Sex Machine."

Jean looks out into the crowd and notices Gina. She's looking

right back at him from the bar. Pleased to see her face, he says

to himself -

We see him walk offstage into the crowd. They meet.

MUSIC segues into PIL's "Public Image".

He leads her towards the exit. They step out of the club.

EXT. MUDD CLUB - NIGHT

HIGH, WIDE ANGLE

It's raining heavily. Jean motions for Gina to wait under the

entrance. He tries to hail a cab... And another. And another.

A parade of them passes, but each time they slow down, they get a

glimpse of Jean and drive off.

Finally, Gina steps out of the entrance. She raises her hand, and

a car pulls over instantly.

INT. CAB - NIGHT

They scurry into the backseat.

The cab pulls off.

EXT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Through a steamy, rain-wet window, we see Jean and Gina seated at

a table, dining.

They seem to be having a nice time.

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - NEXT MORNING

Gina lays in bed. Daylight streams into the apartment.

Jackhammers RATTLE outside. (Music: REGGAE SONG - Errol

Scorcher's "Cockroach in de Corner.")

EXTREME CLOSEUP

A cockroach crawls from Gina's bedroom across the floor and into

the kitchen where Jean sits naked on the floor, working on a

drawing. It crawls over his drawing towards a cardboard box.

Jean rummages through a cabinet. He finds a can of bugspray. Jean

tears off a side of the box. With cardboard in one hand and

bugspray in the other, he forgets the cockroach.

He's mesmerized by the list of ingredients on the aerosol can.

Someone POUNDS furiously at the door.

Ignoring the pounding, he starts listing the ingredients on the

piece of cardboard, finishing his new drawing by including a

symbol of a cockroach to the left of the list.

He gets up and peeks through the security hole. He sees a middle-

aged Hispanic woman reaching to unlock the door. He opens it.

She stares at him levelly.

Jean draws on a piece of paper on the counter next to him. He

hands it to the landlady. It's a a little shack with a big head

next to it that says "'Here' For Rent."

The landlady looks at him like he's crazy. She balls up the

drawing and puts it in her pocket.

Gina arrives in the doorway, wearing a robe. The landlady's

trapped between them.

The landlady wags her finger at Gina.

Gina and Jean look amused as they watch her leave.

She looks at the bugspray drawing on the floor.

Jean kisses her neck as she looks at the drawing.

We HOLD on the drawing.

INT. MARY BOONE GALLERY - DAY

White dust sprinkles down onto Jean's face from the ceiling.

Unable to use his hands, he tries to blow the dust out of his

eyes...

His boss, GREG, a mild-mannered hippie electrician, works above

him on the ladder. Jean steadies the ladder. Greg's head is out

of frame.

The gallery is an impressive space under preparations for an

opening.

Jean searches through the toolbox. He picks up a screwdriver and

reads the handle: "CRAFTSMAN"

Jean shakes his head and puts it back. He tries a couple more -

they each say "CRAFTSMAN." He puts them back.

Finally, he finds one with a different handle. It says "G.S.C.

2000."

He comes down off the ladder.

A GROUP of people arrives.

Albert Milo    comes into view, tailed closely by Rene Ricard and

MARY BOONE    - well dressed, petite, intense, 30. Milo, (also about

30), wears    casual clothes splattered with paint. Mary Boone is

engaged in    conversation with Milo. Rene chatters away.

Greg climbs back up the ladder. He holds a piece of wire down to

Jean. Jean stares at the group while trying to be invisible.

Rene picks up the phone.

Jean watches the group talking.

Jean watches Mary and Milo talking.

Mary yells across the room to Jean.

He looks at her.

Milo watches to see what he's going to do.

Jean looks at Milo. Milo looks back at him.

Jean walks past the tools and continues toward the door. He walks

out without turning around.

Milo smiles to himself.

EXT. BOONE GALLERY - ALBERT MILO OPENING - DUSK

The ART WORLD CROWD fills the gallery. Jean lurks across the

street, watching through the window.

Cabs and limousines line the block. A crowd outside blocks the

street.

Jean's obviously impressed, jealous and estranged -     he feels

entitled to all this.

He crosses the street to get a closer look.

THROUGH THE WINDOW

He sees Albert Milo    talking with ANDY WARHOL and BRUNO

BISCHOFBERGER. Andy,    of course, is thin, silver-haired, and

nearly albino. Bruno    is a Swiss art dealer in his 40's. He exudes

money - a pillar of    security.

On the other side of the room, Rene Ricard is surrounded by a

coterie of young, mostly BLACK AND HISPANIC MALES. Rene looks

drunk, enjoying the moment, holding court.

Rene crosses to Albert and Andy.

People pass by.

Jean starts to walk.

About half a block away, he sprays on a wall:

"THE WHOLE LIVERY LINE BOW LIKE THIS WITH THE BIG MONEY ALL

CRUSHED INTO THESE FEET"

He looks pleased. He turns and looks up West Broadway beyond the

buildings at the sky:

SUPERIMPOSED IN THE SKY

We see a surfer emerging from a HUGE WAVE. He looks powerful and

exalted.

EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY

ANGLE ON: A wall. We see the following graffity:

"JIMMY BEST ON HIS BACK TO THE SUCKERPUNCH OF HIS CHILDHOOD

YEARS"

A basketball bounces against a wall.

Jean and Benny amble onto a basketball court. Jean's changed his

hairstyle. Now the dreadlocks stand straight up from his head.

Benny dribbles with skill while Jean puffs furiously on a

cigarette. He doesn't look like he's slept, but he's happy.

Benny throws the ball to Jean. It bounces off a puddle and

splashes Jean.

Jean shoots. It flies up, up, up -     and over the backboard.

He runs after the ball, gets it, and dribbles clumsily.

He shoots and misses again. He throws it to Benny, who does a

picture-perfect lay-up.

During the following, Benny performs a series of amazing shots

while Jean looks on admiringly.

Jean shrugs.

He shoots. Swish.

He shoots again. Swish.

He shoots again. Swish.

Benny tosses Jean the ball. Jean walks off the court.

Jean shoots the ball and keeps walking. The ball goes in. He

doesn't notice. Benny runs after it.

EXT. HOUSTON ST. - DUSK

Benny and Jean walk along. Benny dribbles.

They watch a long stretch limo cruises up across the street.

The LIMO DRIVER opens the back door. Andy Warhol and Bruno

Bischofberger step out.

INSERT: AN IMAGE OF ANDY'S PAINTINGS AT THE WHITNEY MUSEUM

(FOOTAGE FROM JONAS MEKAS FILM)

Jean scrounges in his pockets, pulls out his Xerox cards, and

readies himself as Bruno and Andy enter BALLATO'S RESTAURANT.

Benny watches Jean crosses the street. Jean passes the limousine.

Inside, the driver (a 24-year old Rasta) takes a hit from a joint

and watches Jean.

CLOSE ON

The driver's eyes.

DRIVER'S POV:

He watches Jean cross the street.

Jean enters the restaurant.

INT. BALLATO'S - DAY

Jean enters. Andy and Bruno spot him. The Maitre'd becomes

alarmed. but it's too late - he's at their table.

He spreads his cards on the table. The topmost card reads

"REDEEMABLE BECAUSE OF HIS YOUTH."

Andy stares dead ahead, Sphinxlike.

Bruno watches the non-interaction between the two.

He taps Jean's shoulder.

Bruno picks up one of the cards.

Bruno pulls out a hundred dollar bill.

As WAITER arrives with the tray, Jean pockets the bill.

He leaves all the cards and walks toward the door.

BRUNO'S POV:

Jean leaving past stupified Maitre'd.

EXT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jean and Benny are outside the entrance to Gina's building. Jean

carries two huge bags overflowing with groceries and flowers. He

buzzes. There's no answer.

He produces a key and lets himself in.

He enters the building.

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jean sets the groceries on the counter and leaves.

We notice the Bugspray painting on the wall, along with more of

Jean's work and supplies.

EXT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DUSK

Jean rejoins Benny in front of Gina's building.

As they're leaving, Gina comes up the street.

INT - GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Flowers and groceries are strewn on the counter.

Over the following MONTAGE we HEAR:

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jean and Gina are sleeping.

SERIES OF DISSOLVES: As they're turning together in their sleep.

INT. KITCHEN / LIVINGROOM (GINA'S APARTMENT) - DAY

Filled with Jean's paintings.

SERIES OF DISSOLVES: Paintings and objects fill the room.

SUPER: "A YEAR AND A HALF LATER EAST 9TH ST."

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jean watches "The Little Rascals" on TV in the living room. The

sound is turned off and a record player PLAYS Gypsy music loudly.

Rolled up in a large drop cloth, Gina is asleep on the floor.

Next to her, Jean works on all fours, drawing figures, crowns,

and houses.

Working feverishly, he writes "HEY, HEY, HEY" in big clusters,

then writes other words: SHARK, IMMORTALITY, JOHN THE REVELATOR,

FAME, INK, TEETH, HAWAII SUPERMARKET, POLE STAR, BABOON and TAR.

He has an acoustics manual and Bible open    on the floor. He copies

the technical blueprints from the manual.    He reads the Bible,

following the text with a dirty finger. It    seems that he watches

TV, draws, listens to the music and reads    at the same time.

He mixes Liquitex paints and puts some colors on the drawings. He

draws a long blue line and carries it over onto the floor. Up the

wall. Through the fridge. Across the window.

He takes off his paint-covered clothes and changes into Gina's

black slip. He rummages around the room, gathering pieces of his

and Gina's clothes.

He spreads the clothes on the floor, and selecting wide brushes

with long bristles, picks up the cans of Liquitex paint.

When paint spills on the clothes, he spreads it into shapes.

Gina wakes up. She reaches for one of the painted shirts.

Jean wipes his hands off on his thighs and puts his arms around

Gina, holding her.

Jean lets her cry for a moment, then notices the music playing on

the stereo - a Gypsy song sung in Spanish.

Gina looks up at him.

No longer crying, Gina leans her head against Jean.

We HEAR a CALL from the window:

Benny and two GUYS come barreling into the apartment. Immediate

chaos. Benny holds up a packet of drugs and jiggles it

temptingly. They make themselves at home. Jean sits with them and

starts to chop up the drugs.

Gina gives Jean a look. She stands, still wrapped in the drop

cloth. She lets it fall to the floor. She's wearing only her

underwear. She walks to the bedroom. Benny watches her.

Gina doesn't respond. She comes out of the bedroom with a small

suitcase.

She leaves.

Silence.

They start to laugh.

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - LATER

Kneeling on the floor,    Jean    covers the surface    of the

refrigerator door with    fast,    rushing strokes.    He mixes paint in a

large soupbowl and dips    his    hair in the bowl.    Pressing his head

to the door, he paints    with    his hair. He stops    to examine the

marks.

He HITS his head against the door harder and harder.

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - MORNING

CAMERA PULLS BACK: Revealing Jean's eyes. They're open and

motionless. His head is tilted toward his chest.

OFF SCREEN WE HEAR the sounds of Gina coming home:

The LOCK turns. The door OPENS.

Gina comes in and drops a bag on the floor.

Silence. She picks up the mail from under the door and walks into

the room. There's a lump on the floor. It's Jean.

She shakes his arm. No result. She lifts his head, revealing his

painted hair.

She shakes him harder. His body is totally limp.

The whites of his eyes are red; his pupils slowly float up,

vanishing.

She listens to his breath, then to his heart.

She finds heroin sprinkled into some pot on the floor near him.

She shakes him until his eyes unglue. His pupils float into their

proper place.

Jean tries to pick himself up from the floor. He gets up stiffly,

like Pinnocchio. The long sleep made his limbs wooden.

He finds an old joint and lights it up.

He offers her the joint.

EXT. ST. MARK'S PLACE - NIGHT

Jean and Benny walk along, sharing a beer in a brown paper bag.

They approach a DRUG DEALER and exchange money for dope.

Jean finds a discarded window frame in a pile of trash and

carries it with him.

They sit down on a stoop. Jean rolls up a dollar bill, empties

the dope onto the window, and splits it into two lines. He hands

the rolled up bill to Benny, who snorts the line.

Benny shakes his head involuntarily, making a violent face, as

though the dope burned a hole in his sinus.

Jean takes a taste with his finger... He tastes his tongue and

makes a face..

He snorts part of his line, anyway, to make sure.

He frowns.

They continue onwards. Jean still carries the window.

INT. PARTY - NIGHT

The party's winding down - hip-hop kids, Lower East Side types.

Jean and Benny pass through the room, ignoring the two or three

clusters of people - maybe fifteen in all...

Jean encounters a familiar face: an enormous red-haired dealer -

ROCKETS (35). They greet each other as friends.

Rockets leads Jean aside. They stand near a wall where a painting

hangs ("Flats Fixed"). It bears Jean's three-point crown.

Jean shrugs.

Jean hands him twenty dollars. Rockets hands him two dime bags.

As if thinking better, he hands the bill back to Jean.

Jean re-pockets his money. He gestures to Rockets as if to say

"fine - it's a deal."

He and Benny sit down across the room and split a bag onto the

window, as before. This time, it's good. They lean back into it,

slumping down into the couch.

Nearby, Rene sits on a couch with THREE STREET KIDS - artists

(who we've seen at Milo's opening). They sit on their knees

looking out a window passing binoculars back and forth.

ARTIST #1 looks through the window with a pair of BINOCULARS. He

points down towards the street, trying to get Rene's attention.

Rene lunges towards the window. The stereo BLARES (Curtis Blow's

"Survival")

Another ARTIST (#2) a young black man, runs up and tries to turn

down the volume.

Rene grabs his crotch.

ANGLE ON:

Benny is now alone on the couch. He nods out.

Artist #2 is still mad at Rene.

Rene weaves across the room. Suddenly, he stops cold. He's

staring at Jean's painting. He doesn't move.

He turns to look for Jean.

Benny looks around ineffectually and shrugs.

Rene looks to him and back at the painting. He takes one last

look.

He stumbles towards the window and grabs the binoculars from

Artist #1..

We look through the binoculars' POV at a GUY coming down the

street. He's wearing all black, cowboy boots, and sunglasses.

He looks around the room again as if looking for Jean.

Rene grabs binoculars.

BINOCULARS POV:

Jean pauses before one of his own graffiti pieces:

"PLUSH SAFE, HE THINK"

Rene watches in awe. Jean, moving a bit slowly, `signs' his tag

with the copyright sign. He walks off.

He hands the binoculars to Artist #3 and runs towards the door.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

BINOCULARS POV

We watch as Rene looks frantically for Jean, but can't spot him.

Finally he sees Jean's hair-do bobbing up and down a block away.

He runs towards it.

Huffing and puffing, he catches up.

They shake hands.

INT. PS 1 SHOW - DAY

INSERT:   A huge poster reads:

"NEW YORK / NEW WAVE

100 ARTISTS"

CLOSE ON: A HAMMER, POUNDING

Jean pounds a nail into one of his pieces, nailing it directly

onto the wall. Everyone stares.

Rene smiles. Jean finishes pounding the last piece into the wall.

CAMERA pulls back to reveal several of Jean's paintings - found

objects with paint on them.

A crowd begins to gather around the work.

Henry leaves.

LATER

There seems to be a buzz about Jean already. People gather around

his paintings.

Gina arrives. She looks great.

ANNINA NOSEI, a sophisticated, well-groomed woman appears at

Jean's side. She takes in his paintings.

As Jean, Rene, and Annina talk, Gina is left out.

Jean sees Bruno and turns his back to her.

Bruno looks at the paintings with a smile... He gives a cheerful

nod to Annina.

He leaves. Annina's impressed that Jean knows Bruno.

He produces a pint bottle in a paper sack.

She walks off.

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT (BEDROOM) - NIGHT

Jean and Gina lay in bed.

Beat. Silence.

Jean can't sleep. He stares at the ceiling.

Beat.

No reply.

Gina's asleep.

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT (KITCHEN) - LATER (NIGHT)

Quietly, Jean kneels on the floor of the kitchen. He paints on an

old window.

He draws figures of three people sitting at a table - obviously a

family. He crosses out one person and paints a dog under the

table.

He crosses everything out.

He mixes the paint in a large bowl and starts again.

Again, he crosses everything out.

INT - GINA'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Jean continues to work. He's wearing pajamas and a bathrobe.

Gina enters, waking up.

She looks at the painting.

Jean moves to add something. She stops him.

He pauses.

Jean paints out the image.

There's a KNOCK at the door.

Jean jumps up and locks himself in the bathroom. Gina goes to the

door, unlocks the chain, and looks out.

She opens the door.

Closed in the bathroom, Jean smiles while eavesdropping.

Annina starts noticing all the work around her. Gina hands her a

stack of drawings.

Annina contains her excitement.

We see Jean in the bathroom looking at himself in the mirror with

a bird's nest on his head.

Jean pops out of the bathroom.

She opens the door.

Unnoticed, Gina starts for the bedroom.

THE DOOR SLAMS

As Jean exits with Annina.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Jean waits in a taxi in front of Benny's apartment.

The DRIVER obliges. The back of the cab is loaded with all his

belongings. Boxes piled with junk. Bags of new painting supplies.

Benny emerges from his building and jumps into the cab.

The cab pulls out. Jean lights a joint. and smokes it furiously.

He doesn't pass it to Benny.

Benny holds out his hand for the joint.

He snaps his finger for the joint back.

The cab stops for a red light. Benny gets out. He doesn't say a

word. Jean doesn't look at him. The cab sails off.

EXT. ANNINA NOSEI GALLERY - DAY

It stops in front of the gallery. From outside, we see Annina

conversing on the phone. She looks up and opens the door for him.

INT. STAIRWELL - BLACK.

Off screen we HEAR Jean walking down the stairs.

INT - BASEMENT, ANNINA'S - DAY

Annina flips on a light.

Jean looks around him. He's in a large, empty cement-floored room

lit by fluorescent lights.

INT. BASEMENT, ANNINA'S - (LATER) - DAY

Jean bends over, beginning several canvases. He pours paint on

them - kind of like photographs we've seen of Jackson Pollock. We

HEAR Miles Davis' "Flamenco Sketches."

INT - BASEMENT, ANNINA'S - DAY (LATER)

GRANDMASTER FLASH'S "WHITE LINES" fills the room.

The walls are covered with half-finished, unstretched CANVASES.

Two or three more lie on the floor.

He works like a maniac, buzzing back and forth from one painting

to another, adding figures, crossing out words, all the while

smoking and eating cookies. The crumbs fall onto the paintings.

He walks on them.

Every so often, he refers to a book of DaVinci drawings. Torn

pages litter the floor beneath the book.

We hear someone THUMPING down the stairs.

It's Rene. A PUPPY follows him.

He dumps a huge load of paint supplies, art books, and carryout

ribs. The puppy sniffs around happily, licking at Jean and

walking over the paintings, wagging his tail.

He stops the tape player and inserts some Persian music.

Jean empties some foil-wrapped bags of coke. He cuts a line of

coke on a foil plate.

Rene starts reading from a poem he's evidently written:

Jean warms the plate 'til the coke crackles, and then "chases the

dragon," sucking the smoke through a straw.

He offers it to Rene, who refuses. He lights and hands Rene the

joint. Rene takes a hit. Jean takes it back.

Jean starts to work again.

The PUPPY runs around, chasing after him, getting in his way,

running across the paintings. Jean laughs, playing tag. The puppy

gets a hold of Jean's sleeve. It unravels about ten feet.

While Jean's playing, Rene spots a painting with the words

"Famous Negro Athletes."

Without hearing him, Jean walks towards the painting and with a

swipe, paints out what Rene is pointing to.

The phone RINGS... Jean ignores it. Rene gets it -

He sets his brush down.

Rene hold the phone against his leg.

Jean picks up the phone... All he hears is a DIAL TONE.

Jean regards a near-finished painting. He writes "5:11" on it. He

crosses it out and re-writes it, "Rene 5:11." Rene looks pleased.

Jean continues painting. Rene slumps down onto the floor, happy -

a parasite content to have a host, impressed with Jean's

limitless energy. Rene closes his eyes.

BLACK

INT. ANNINA'S BASEMENT - LATER

Jean is bent over his work. He looks to see a pair of legs. They

belong to Albert Milo.

Milo takes his time looking at the paintings.

Jean continues to work, never wanting to appear impressed by

anyone. He walks on top of the paintings.

Rene shrugs to Jean. He prepares to leave.

Albert and Rene begin to ascend the stairs. Jean continues

painting. The dog leaves with Rene and Albert.

Jean's brush stops.

Jean paints over the words "Rene 5:11."

We hear FOOTSTEPS COMING DOWN THE STAIRS. The woman continues -

JEAN'S POV

We see Annina's legs coming down the stairs.

REVEAL

A man wearing a pin-striped suit and gold-rimmed glasses. The

woman is wrapped in a cashmere shawl.

We SEE that Jean continues to paint, looking down.

As she speaks, Jean squirms. He grabs a banana from a fruit bowl.

Without peeling it, he takes a big bite. And another. And

another. Everyone looks uncomfortable. Annina starts showing them

the paintings.

He looks up at them, eating the banana.

He (Kruger) looks up to see two KIDS enter - young black artists,

one of whom we saw with Rene at the loft party.

They walk right into the middle of the room, completely oblivious

to the presence of Annina and the Krugers..

The Krugers hem and haw in front of the painting next to Jean.

Jean paints the words "Rene 5:11" back into a painting. They

ignore the kid..

Suddenly, we see LEGS coming down the stairs. It's Gina. Everyone

looks at her.

Gina hadn't expected to find herself in the middle of this scene.

Annina nods to her.

Gina nods to the group.

Gina tries to connect with Jean. He's cold.

He sets his brush down. As he leaves -

HOLD ON:

Gina, left standing in the middle of this.

INT. MCDONALDS - DAY

CLOSE ON McDonald's COUNTERMAN. He smiles.

A line begins forming behind Jean.

The people in line are beginning to get impatient.

EXT. SOHO STREET - DAY

Jean leans on a fire hydrant, eating a Big Mac.

A pink scarf blows on the wind right in front of his face. He

catches it.

A BOMBSHELL BLONDE arrives with her hand outstretched to retrieve

it.

He offers her a Big Mac.

A man sleeping on the ground with a beehive of paper bags on his

head and three overcoats sticks out into the sidewalk.

Jean leaves the McDonald's bag near his head as he walks down the

street with the girl.

INT. GINA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jean enters the apartment.

Gina holds the scarf up and looks at it.

As she holds it up he puts it around her neck and kisses her.

INT. ANNINA NOSEI GALLERY - NIGHT

Silence.

CLOSE UP PAINTING

We read the words:

"BOOM #2

A CAT POURING TACKS ON ITS TONGUE"

SOMEONE (the big red-haired dealer we met earlier) walks in front

of us.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal a crowd in a gallery. It is literally

filled with people. Again - all this takes place in silence.

We begin to HEAR Peggy Lee's "Is That All There Is?" It colors

the motion of the crowd.

EXT. PRINCE ST (BET. MERCER AND WOOSTER) - DUSK

Jean walks down the street. He's got on a new set of clothes and

he listens to a Walkman. We HEAR Miles Davis' "Flamenco

Sketches."

JEAN'S POV

We MOVE down Prince St. and take a left on West Broadway. We

approach a huge crowd. We get closer and closer until we are

immersed in it.

The crowd realizes Jean's amongst them. People start approaching

him. Someone removes the headphones.

The DIN of the crowd replaces the music. Amongst the normal crowd

chatter, we hear friends' calling out:

INT. ANNINA NOSEI GALLERY

Annina    beckons to him. Beyond her, he sees Albert, Andy, and

Bruno.    He's being escorted or maybe just pushed - it's hard to

tell.    Each step of the way, he's pounced upon by INDIVIDUALS

we've    never met. The room is wall-to-wall with people. People are

swept    along in currents.

Jean walks up to Andy Warhol.

They are approached by Mary Boone, a short woman in high heels

and an Armani suit).

In the background, we see Annina watching.

Annina walks over to Jean with a COUPLE.

Rene appears out of the crowd.

Jean notices Benny across the room. He slows down and waves.

Jean sees Gina across the room wearing the scarf.

Just beyond her, he sees Big Pink approaching.

There must be ten people between them.

He moves towards her. Suddenly, directly in front of him are the

Krugers.

Looking past the Krugers, Jean looks for Gina. He sees her. His

path is blocked.

He presses forward, looking for Gina, getting caught in the

crowd.

Jean strains to keep an eye on Gina and Big Pink..

Benny arrives at Jean's side holding a bottle of Jack Daniels and

a shot glass.

Jean brushes past him.

Benny is left standing next to Andy holding the bottle.

Jean manages to advance a few more feet through the crowd, then

runs smack into Rockets, his drug dealer.

Nearby, Benny sees this meeting and walks off, disgusted,

thinking this is why Jean gave him the brush off.

Jean looks off and sees Big Pink fingering the scarf, saying

something to Gina.

Gina slaps her in the face.

Jean tries to get around the dealer.

Gina turns to leave. She catches Jean's eye.

She walks out.

The dealer palms something to Jean.

Jean steps away from Rockets, but is trapped in the crowd.

Rockets looks after him with disappointment.

Rene arrives with, Andy, Bruno, and a PHOTOGRAPHER.

They shrug and crowd in - Jean, Andy, and Rene. The photographer

gets them to squeeze closer and closer.

There's not enough room. Rene accidentally gets pushed out of

frame.

Rene fumes. Albert Milo arrives with his parents (JACK AND ESTHER

MILO). They are a nice Jewish couple in their 70's.

Albert crowds in. The photographer SNAPS a picture and the FLASH

blinds everyone momentarily.

Jean pulls out a joint and lights it as if it were a cigarette.

He offers it to Albert, who takes a hit.

He offers the joint to Albert's mother.

Everyone laughs.

Jean spots the very word on the painting ("Rene 5:11") and

freezes for a second.

He looks around the room for Rene, but doesn't see him. Bruno

remains smiling, waiting for an answer.

Jean wants out. He feels compromised.

Jean makes his way through the crowd, as we see images of the

crowd and fragments of paintings. As he nears the door, he feels

his arm pulled.

He pulls out a scrap of paper and starts writing.

Rene shushes him... He hisses loudly, like a cat.

Jean pauses. He turns around and surveys the room once more.

A blink.

Silence.

We see the crowd in SLOW MOTION.

Everyone's eyes are shut.

INT. / EXT. GALLERY - NIGHT

The CAMERA rises higher and higher over the crowd and follows

Jean as he makes his way toward the street.

We begin to DISSOLVE into a MONTAGE of stills of ARTISTS:

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Jean enters a waiting limo. It pulls away from the curb.

Rene finishes as the limo threads its way through the night-lit,

twinkling city.

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

The DRIVER is the young Rasta we saw earlier outside Ballato's

driving Bruno and Andy.

Jean slumps in the back seat.

The driver can't help staring in the rearview mirror.

The limo pulls over.

Quickly, Jean gets out of the limo. He leaves the door open.

The DRIVER watches as Jean talks to two DRUG DEALERS.

Jean jumps back into the limo.

The driver pulls away. In the rearview mirror, he sees Jean

separate a bag from a bundle of ten. He rips it open and snorts

directly from it.

He lays his head back and takes a deep breath.

INT. MR. CHOW'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT

An elegant Chinese restaurant on the Upper East Side. The dining

room is split level with a mezzanine reserved for celebrities and

special friends of the owner.

At the podium, the MAITRE'D approaches.

From behind the Maitre'd on the mezzanine we see Bruno waving to

Jean.

In the dining room on the lower level sit Annina and Rene.

Nearby, at another, smaller table, are seated DAVID MCDERMOTT and

PETER MCGOUGH, two artists dressed in Victorian attire.

Annina beckons him.

Rene looks away from him and talks to a WAITER. Jean waves to

Annina and continues towards Bruno's table.

Seated at a large table are Andy, Bruno, Albert Milo, his wife

and parents, Henry Geldzahler, MELINA PORTOS (a young heiress)

and FRANCESCO and ALBA CLEMENTE and Mary Boone. Dinner's already

served.

At the large table, everyone watches as Milo makes a portrait of

Francesco in a beautiful leatherbound book. It belongs to Mr.

Chow, who is nearby at the bar.

He motions to Mr. Chow to set a chair for Jean between Mary Boone

and himself.

As Jean is seated, Andy and Jack Milo resume conversation -

CLOSE UP: Jean smiles at Andy's diplomacy.

Albert finishes drawing his portrait: it's Francesco with his arm

around a headless torso.

He pushes the book across the table.

Francesco begins to draw.

Annina watches from the other table as Jean talks to Mary.

Francesco finishes his drawing.

Albert takes the book and passes it to Jean.

Jean takes it. Mr. Chow watches his book change hands.

Jean takes a bowl of moo-shoo pork in front of him and dumps it

onto the book. Then he uses a piece of pork to draw a head.

Suddenly, there's a shrill, familiar voice.

He leans over everyone and helps himself to some spears of

asparagus.

ANGLE ON

Esther Milo, watching.

Jean finishes his drawing - a big beautiful head that fills the

screen.

Rene grabs it from him. He holds it up for everyone to see.

He rips the page from the book.

Everyone's face drops. Mr. Chow grabs his book. He motions to a

couple WAITERS -

The waiters grab Rene's arms.

Spontaneously, David McDermott climbs onto the tabletop

downstairs and sings "Paris Je T'aime."

As he belts it out in a theatrical falsetto, he glides over

glasses and plates, executing a leap to another table in mid-

song.

The restaurant staff and OTHER DINNER GUESTS watch, agape.

CLOSE UP - DAVID'S SHOES.

As David dances, Annina walks over to the table, greeting people

and saying goodnight.

Annina leaves.

Jean leans back in his chair, taking in this splendid new world.

He pulls out a joint, lights up, inhales with pleasure, closes

his eyes and smiles.

SUPER OVER HIS FACE: "FOUR YEARS LATER"

SCREEN GOES BLACK

INT. GREAT JONES STREET LOFT - DAY

Note: The following scene is shot in documentary style.

Jean looks out the window, yawns and rubs his eyes. He now sports

dreadlocks bundled into groups of spikes sticking out of his

head. He wears a wrinkled Wesleyan College T-shirt, paint-

splattered jeans, and no shoes; just out of bed, it would seem.

An INTERVIEWER - a balding Brit with all the humor of a bank

clerk - tries to buddy up with Jean on camera.

Jean and the interviewer face each other in front of one of

Jean's paintings. Jean stares at the interviewer, incredulous.

Jean walks off camera and disappears into his bedroom.

Shenge (the former limo driver, now working as Jean's assistant)

assembles stretchers.

SUPER: "GREAT JONES STREET, 1985"

A CAMERA CREW waits in the room. Jean returns.

He signals to the crew that he's beginning.

He points to some scribbled words on the canvas.

He grabs a huge double mouthful of French Fries and washes them

down with champagne..

The BUZZER sounds. He signals for Steve not to answer the door.

Jean walks off camera like he just received a punch in the

stomach.

The filming of the interview becomes increasingly erratic.

Jean walks back into frame.

Jean drifts off.

INT. FANCY GOURMET DELI - DAY

Jean and Andy browse through the aisles. Jean piles things into

his cart.

Jean approaches the specialty counter. Andy continues with the

cart.

The Counterman selects a miniscule plastic spoon of caviar and

begins to put it into a tiny glass jar.

Reluctantly the Counterman gives him a taste with a look like

"what's a person who looks like you doing buying caviar?"

Jean tastes the caviar and hands him back the spoon.

He hands two one hundred dollar bills for the other items to the

counterman, who checks them carefully.

EXT. WINDOW - DAY

A cheap pharmacy gift shop window. Jean and Andy look in on two

yellow furry stuffed ducks which are part of a larger display.

They walk into a beauty salon.

INT. BEAUTY SALON - DAY

Jean and Andy recline on the beautician's armchairs. THREE

BEAUTICIANS busy themselves with the two of them, simultaneously

giving them pedicures and manicures. Jean sets down a magazine.

Jean points to Andy's ankles - they have plastic flea collars on

them.

Beat.

EXT. STREET - - DAY

They walk out of the beauty salon..

Jean sees the back of a girl. She looks a lot like Gina.

Jean shakes his head `no,' sorry that he didn't.

INT. BARBETTA'S (RESTAURANT) - DAY

A medium-sized dining room with dark wood paneling and tastefully

appointed furnishings.

Jean and Gina enter. Gina looks considerably more conservative

than previously - more like a student. Jean's dressed well, but

looks even more careworn than usual. His hair is tied back with a

necktie. He has a couple sores on his face. His skin looks a

little puffy.

The MAITRE'D smiles at Jean and bows -

A huge table with NINE WHITE EXECUTIVES. WAITERS clear their

lunch settings. As they spot Jean and Gina entering, they gawk

and snicker.

George leads them to their table. As they take their seats, Jean

notices the suppressed giggles coming from the executives' table.

They try to ignore it. George disappears.

Jean seems self-conscious about the sores on his face.

George reappears.

George disappears again.

Jean's eyebrows go up.

George arrives and pours a sip for Jean to taste. He nods. George

moves off. Two or three of the executives break out laughing.

Jean puts the glass down and looks at them. The other table is

clearly making fun of him.

George hurries over.

Long silence.

Gina looks at Jean, confused.

He moves off towards the executives. George whispers to the HEAD

EXECUTIVE, and nods towards Jean. The executives spread the words

amongst themselves. They're horrified.

A YOUNG EXECUTIVE, obviously the loser, takes a deep breath and

heads towards them.

The Executive reaches to shake Jean's hand. Jean puts a hundred

dollar bill in his hand.

Jean turns back to Gina. The Executive leaves them. George

smiles.

Gina balks. Rather than face a disappointment -

INT. BARBETTA'S (BATHROOM) - DAY

CLOSE ON JEAN - looking in the mirror.

He looks at himself.

He starts to pick at his face.

INT. PALLADIUM - HUGE ROOM - NIGHT

Jean and Albert Milo sit on a banquette

A huge white painting of Jean's with a dragon's head hangs on one

wall to their left. On the opposite wall in back of the bar hangs

another huge painting with a lot of heads, mostly black.

Lots of PEOPLE mill about a huge room.

A GIRL - another Gina look-alike walks through the crowd. Jean's

eyes follow her momentarily..

EXT. UNION SQUARE PARK - DAY

Jean rides his bicycle through the park. He's looking up at the

birds flying in the trees.

ANGLE ON

The birds. We see the statue in the middle of the park, but we

have no idea where we are until we see the Mays Dept. Store sign.

The birds circle in flocks, never lighting on the trees.

EXT. THE FACTORY (ENTRANCE) - DAY

Jean presses a buzzer. He's admitted. He carries his bike on his

shoulder.

INT. THE FACTORY - DAY

Jean enters a broad, high-ceilinged studio. It's neat. Paintings

lie on the floor.

Andy's back is turned to him. As Jean gets closer, he sees that

Andy's assistant FRANK is peeing on canvas covered with copper

pigment. We hear the SOUND of the piss.

Frank holds a bottle of beer in his hand.

Jean notices a bunch of Andy's wigs on a desk.

Jean makes a grimace. He walks up to the painting Frank's peeing

on.

Looking down at the painting -

INT. THE FACTORY - LATER

Jean and Andy collaborate on a large canvas. Andy outlines a

Mobil Oil winged horse.

Jean paints it out. To the side he paints a penguin with a hat.

Andy watches as Jean lights a joint and continues working on his

penguin.

Andy paints an Amoco logo next to the penguin.

Jean paints out part of Andy's logo.

Jean obliterates Andy's logo.

Andy paints back in part of the horse.

Jean adds some letters on top of Andy's logo.

Jean Michel obliterates the rest of the logo with some white.

Andy steps back and squints as he examines Jean's work.

Jean quits painting.

Frank arrives.

He presents them with a yellow poster of Jean and Andy facing

each other with boxing gloves.

INT. FACTORY - NEXT DAY

Shenge hands Andy a box.

Andy opens the box. Inside is a football helmet with Jean's

dreadlocks glued to the outside.

CLOSE UP: Andy in mirror wearing helmet.

INSERT

The screen is filled with the cover of the New York Times

Magazine. Jean is featured on the cover, without his dreadlocks.

INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - NIGHT

As Shenge opens the door, a CROWD of people spill out. They pour

into the loft. The studio is crowded with PEOPLE. (Many of them

we recognize from earlier scenes in Mudd Club, Jean's opening,

etc). On the wall there is a portrait of Jean by Andy. The

background is a piss painting.

Inside, Jean kneels on the floor in the corner of the loft with a

bunch of people around him - girls, mostly. Twenty-five copies of

the Times Magazine lay stacked on the floor.

Crouching on one knee, Jean signs a copy for a BRUNETTE.

Looking up -

A BRUNETTE walks up -

Andy's assistant, Frank, arrives with CHRISTINE, 25, a model.

Jean is taken with Christine.

He's thrown off his rhythm.

TOXIC (seen with Rene at loft party earlier) spots Jean and steps

in.

Jean likes Rammellzee enough to be patient... Toxic grins and

rolls his eyes to Jean. Jean watches Christine as they go on.

Rammellzee yells after him -

Jean escorts Christine to the kitchen.

Bruno and Andy stand in the crowd.

Nearby are two WOMEN.

Walking by, Rene responds to this -

Rene walks over to Jean.

Rene heads back out into the party.

Jean eats gumbo while Christine thumbs through the Times

Magazine.

ANGLE ON

Rene responds to something Andy's been telling him in a low

voice.

CHRISTINELooks up from her magazine..

Jean walks away.

He passes through the crowd, making his way to the door.

He exits.

EXT. GREAT JONES ST LOFT - NIGHT

Drugged, upset, Jean leaves the party.

He opens a limo door and looks back at his house. The party

continues.

The limo drives off.

We HOLD on Jean's building.

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

The limo floats through the streets.

Jean stares out the window.

The limo pulls over.

Jean exits.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Jean disappears around the corner.

ANGLE ON

THREE KIDS in the process of prying a door panel with crowbars.

We see that they're removing one of Jean's SAMO pieces from a

wall. We read:

"PAY FOR SOUP

BUILD A FORT

SET IT ON FIRE"

Jean arrives behind them.

The panel is almost pried free without a scratch.

Jean shoves his way in front with a magic marker and adds a

couple words; now it reads:

"SAMO IS DEAD"

The kids are outraged, thinking Jean's ruined their find.

They jump on him.

They beat the shit out of him.

They're done.

Jean lies curled up on the ground, trying to talk.

Kid #1 whacks him in the back once more for good measure.

THE SEA

It is flat, dead, gray.

Ominous and waiting.

INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - DAY

Washed in sunlight, a large painting leans against the wall, the

words "HAITIAN BASEBALL FACTORIES" scrawled through its center.

Jean lays down, watching TV.

He looks older now, more worn. His face is slightly swollen. His

complexion is discolored.

Shenge covers a triptych with wide brush strokes of yellow paint.

He circles a large, primitive figure of a black man drawn with

magic marker in the center. He is careful to leave the figure

intact.

Jean points to the lower corner.

Shenge picks up the phone, which has been RINGING for some time.

Shenge changes the brush and dips it in the can.

Shenge shrugs and starts to spread the blue. Jean looks at his

work.

A woman's shout can be heard through the open window. Shenge

looks out.

MARIA, a raven-haired, sharp-featured beauty in a Chanel suit

jacket, blue jeans, and pearls walks into the room. She's with

ELLEN - younger - a millionaire fake hippie from Texas.

Maria carries a bag with clogs in it - a present for Jean. She

takes them out.

Jean doesn't get up from the floor.

Basquiat points at the painting.

Jean raises his hand and pumps five fingers three times in the

air.

Ellen makes a snotty face.

Shenge gives Jean a stupefied look.

Shenge is embarrassed by Jean's remark in the company of the two

women.

He points. Unsure, Shenge picks up the brush and paints one of

the corners.

Maria browses through a stack of paintings leaning against the

wall.

Jean gets to his feet. He dips a long, thin brush into black

paint and nonchalantly crosses out the half figure that Shenge is

carefully surrounding with blue.

She's not even worth a response. Jean looks around, numb.

INT. MARY BOONE GALLERY - DAY

Jean enters the gallery. Cleaned up. Healthier. Bruises healing.

He looks like he's been painting.

Mary looks up from her desk, surprised to see Jean.

INT. ALBERT MILO'S LOFT - DAY

Albert shows Jean through a series of large rooms filled with

enormous paintings.

It looks like the Cairo Museum.

They pause before a painting.

Milo's daughter STELLA (12) calls out from over the balcony.

Albert leaves.

Jean looks at some paintings.

Stella comes downstairs.

He draws her.

He walks to the door, leaving the drawing on the floor.

Albert returns.

Albert opens the door to the stairwell looking for Jean.

He hears the sound of URINATING.

He leans over the stairwell.

He sees Jean Michel, taking a piss on the landing.

He shuts the door quietly.

EXT. GIFT SHOP WINDOW - DAY

Jean walks out of the gift shop (seen earlier, next to

beautician's)

EXT. BROADWAY AND HOUSTON STREET - DAY

Jean walks through the middle of the intersection. He carries two

yellow, furry toy ducks under his arm.

SUPER: "FEBRUARY 22, 1987"

Seeing Bruno at the wheel of a black Mercedes stopped at a light,

Jean clowns around like a street vendor who wants to wash his

window.

Bruno doesn't notice him.

The light changes.

Bruno pulls across the street because of the traffic.

Jean drops one of the ducks in the street and walks off.

ANGLE ON

The duck lying in the street.

EXT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - NIGHT

The "OUT FOR RIBS" sign hangs outside Jean's door.

EXT. GREAT JONES ST - DAY

Mary sits in her limo trying to call Jean.

INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - DAY

Near darkness. The curtains are drawn. Music plays: `Birds' by

Neil Young: "it's over.....it's over".

Jean watches a video tape with the sound MUTED. The screen fills

with Andy's face. We SEE a series of quick scenes from his life.

Jean and the remaining duck are lit by the TV.

INT. GREAT JONES ST. LOFT - DAY

EXTREME CLOSEUP: A COLORED PENCIL TIP

Held in Jean's hand. It's stalled in mid-stroke. He writes with a

magic marker on the heel of two wooden clogs the word: "TITANIC"

There's a loud BANGING at the door.

When it stops, the pencil tip resumes its long voyage across the

page.

MUSIC UP: Tom Waits' "Tom Traubert's Blues"

EXT. GINA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jean buzzes the doorbell. He's wearing the clogs. He's hurting.

The intercom comes on.

Jean recognizes Benny's voice.

ANGLE UP

Gina and Benny look out the window into the street.

Jean's a block away.

EXT. MENTAL HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Jean gets out of a cab. He walks up to the entrance.

The doors are locked. He rattles them.

Inside, an OLD JANITOR keeps mopping.

Jean pounds harder, RATTLES the doors more.

The janitor gets nervous. He leaves.

He returns a moment later with a large SECURITY GUARD.

The guard unlocks the door, hoping to settle Jean down.

The guard gently ushers Jean out through the door.

He locks the door and walks off with the janitor.

EXT. STREET - DAYBREAK

Jean, walks around, drifting, stoned. He looks up at the skyline.

Waves crash silently over a surfer.

STREET SOUNDS

EXT. STREET -   MORNING

Jean has been passed out on a sidewalk.

CLOSE ON: Benny's face.

He leans over Jean and helps him up.

Benny looks at Jean's eyes.

Jean stretches, kicking life back into his limbs.

Benny looks at him guiltily.

EXT. JEEP - STREETS - DAY

Jean and Benny zoom along in a battered old Army Jeep. Now

revived, Jean stands up, waving at people miming General Patton.

We HEAR the music of "Summer of Siam."

INT. HEALTH FOOD STORE - DAY

A mountain of homeopathic medicine and health food on the

counter. Benny helps the clerk load it into a box.

Jean approaches and dumps some more stuff onto the counter.

He's chewing something.

Tabouli spills onto Jean's shirt.

EXT - WEST BROADWAY - DAY

Jean and Benny walk along. Benny's arms are full with boxes.

Jean walks in front, eating yogurt. He's wearing his Titanic

clogs. Benny tries to keep up.

INT. CELL - DAY

A crude stone jail - almost medieval - fairy-tale like. A thick

wooden plank suspended by chains for a bench. A candle on the

wall.

A small, crowned prince (the boy seen in the dream in intro.)

looks longingly out the window at rolling green hills. Terraced

hillsides, cedar trees, cottages, smoke wafting up from chimneys.

Dirt streets.

The prince smashes the window. He hits his head on the bars,

gripping them tightly.

EXT. MEDIEVAL VILLAGE' - DAY

The villagers cease their activities as they listen to the SOUND.

Looking up, they smile, as if warmed to their souls by some

unearthly and intangible substance. They look heavenwards.

CAMERA follows their collective gaze skywards.

We shoot up, up, into the sky.

EXT. WEST BROADWAY - DAY

We rush down, down through the sky.

Buildings come up at us.

We're over Soho.

We're back on the ground.

Benny and Jean continue walking.

We see Jean from behind. He's looking up.

Benny stops to readjust his parcels.

Jean continues down the street, talking louder.

FREEZE FRAME ON HIS FACE

SUPER:

"JEAN MICHEL BASQUIAT

BORN: DECEMBER 14, 1961

DIED: AUGUST 12, 1988"

EXT. IRELAND - DAY

Rolling hills. Green. Lush. Peaceful..

THE END

