FADE IN:

EXT. FOREST - DAY

DISTANT GUN AND MORTAR FIRE

Muffled by the wet green forest.

The very earth seems to tremble.

A RABBIT

Darts out of a log, lifts itself on its hind legs and sniffs

the air.

LOBBED GRENADE EXPLODES

VOICES and SHOUTS, closer now, mix with the rumbling WAR

SOUNDS in a veritable symphony of violence and confusion.

A DEAD AMERICAN GI lays splayed out, careless in death.

A pair of SOLDIERS flash among the trees, running hunched

over and low, and disappear into the gray blooms of SMOKE.

For a moment the forest takes a breath.

Nothing but trembling leaves. Then - The RATTLE of a Jeep

Coming closer in fits and starts, GRINDING through low gears.

A Willys MB appears, CRASHING through the undergrowth.

It's driven by Private First Class KELLY ERNSWILER.

Eighteen, if that. Not much meat on him. His insignias

indicate he's in the 29th Infantry.

His face might be attractive, under other conditions.

He pauses and pulls a map from the pocket of his M41 standard-

issue field jacket.

To give himself courage, he SINGS Tommy Dorsey's "I'll Be

Seeing You [in all the old familiar places]" while maneuvering

the Jeep through the bushes and rocks.

He drives straight for a fallen LOG, GUNS the engine and

tries to go over it.

The Jeep's FRONT WHEELS catch on the log.

The BACK TIRES spin.

Kelly gets out. Takes off his M1 combat helmet and wipes his

face. Assesses the situation.

He grabs a BRANCH. Jams it under the wheel, trying to lever

the Jeep free. When --

The STUTTER of a nearby MACHINE GUN startles him.

The branch SNAPS against Kelly's weight. He slips and falls

in the mud.

Determined, he grabs his pack and carbine and sets off on

foot through the forest.

EXT. CLEARING

Kelly strides purposefully out of the woods. Pauses against

a split-rail fence beneath the innocent sun.

Across the clearing stands a seemingly abandoned BARN.

But not for long, as TWO GERMAN INFANTRYMEN appear around

the corner of it.

Kelly moves behind a tree to assess the situation.

Unaware, the Germans smoke and talk. Kelly's too far away to

hear them but he watches their every move.

They're relaxed, not as on guard as they should be. Their

Karabiners rest slung across their backs.

AGAINST THE TREE

Kelly focuses himself.

Then he shoulders his carbine.

Pulls out his dog tags and kisses them grimly.

He takes his Smith & Wesson 1917 PISTOL from his pistol belt

and steps out into the SUNLIGHT FIELD in plain sight of the

guards.

Surely he knows they can see him. He must want them to see

him.

But they don't. Too busy passing nudie wallet photos.

Halfway across the open grass, Kelly raises the pistol but

does not aim it.

Just strides steadily closer, arms spread out, making himself

an easy target.

Crazy as it seems, Private Kelly Ernswiler is trying to get

himself killed.

EXT. BARN

Kelly pauses not twenty feet from the Germans, FIRES into

the air and waves --

-- when from behind him comes a voice.

Kelly whips around to face a third German, the OFFICER.

His pistol points right into the Officer's shocked pink young

face. Point blank range.

Only - Kelly doesn't fire.

He just lowers the pistol.

The German smiles.

The Infantrymen have recovered from their idle and come

running.

One of them yanks Kelly's hands behind his back and pushes

him into the barn roughly.

Kelly doesn't struggle.

INT. BARN

Kelly sits slumped in a chair, legs tied up. One of the

Germans shines a flashlight in his face. Kelly squints.

The German Officer produces a piece of paper and a fountain

pen.

Kelly takes the pen and examines it.

The Officer pokes the paper.

Kelly thinks about it for a minute - should he or shouldn't

he - but sighs and begins writing. After a few lines, the

Officer snatches the paper away and passes it to an

Infantryman.

The Officer wheels around and scowls at the speaker. He seems

to be getting a bit hysterical.

He and Kelly glare at each other.

The Officer FIRES his Luger into the rafters.

The Officer grabs his throat.

Kelly laughs. The officer slaps him. Kelly jerks away.

Suddenly another AMERICAN GI appears behind the German in

the shadows.

Only Kelly can see him. The GI motions to Kelly "keep talking"

while he gets into a better position with his M-1 rifle.

The GI shoots the two infantrymen who fall in exaggerated

pain and commence death throes.

Quick as a flash, the GI's Colt 1911 PISTOL is at the German

Officer's neck, his M-1 in his other hand.

The GI's eyes widen. He looks at Kelly.

But the GI does anyway.

The Officer SHRIEKS, grabs at his neck, and falls.

The GI holds out his hand.

Kelly takes the hand of the grinning all-American type guy.

About his own age, but BART takes up more space.

The Officer gets up and dusts off his uniform.

The Officer grins.

Bart helps him up and checks his regulation-issue Timex.

The German Officer crosses his arms.

Kelly gets up from the chair and falls over. His legs are

still tied.

EXT. FOREST

The DEAD GI gets up and walks off with the GERMANS and some

other SOLDIERS, done for the day.

Bart and Kelly walk back to the stranded Jeep.

Bart unfolds an entrenching tool from his belt and digs under

the back wheels, building up dirt.

Then he goes around to the front and puts his shoulder against

the hood. Bart rocks the Jeep while Kelly pumps the gas.

The Jeep finally pulls free and SPRAYS Bart with mud.

Kelly looks over his shoulder and starts backing away.

Bart stands there, dripping with mud, shocked.

About a hundred feet away Kelly stops.

Bart walks towards the Jeep. Kelly backs it up again.

Bart climbs in.

INT. DINER - DAY

The customers are all REENACTORS. Some Yanks, some Germans,

a few Scottish and North African irregulars. "Boogie-Woogie

Bugle Boy" plays on the jukebox.

Bart and Kelly sit in a booth together. Bart has an easy,

confident manner and expansive gestures. Kelly eats hunched

over, like someone might try and steal his food.

They both eat for a minute.

Pause. Kelly looks at Bart.

Bart throws his napkin on his plate.

EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - DAY

Kelly pulls up into the circular gravel drive. Bart's house

is fancy. A nice yard and a pool. Bart hops out.

Kelly watches Bart go into his house and smiles in spite of

himself.

EXT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - DUSK

Kelly's house is a also pretty nice, nothing to be ashamed

of. It is smaller and weirder. The flowers and bushes are

overgrown and strange sculptures dot the yard, some leaning

at precarious angles.

Kelly washes his Jeep in the driveway.

EXT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - NIGHT

Kelly buffs the headlamps with a chamois. The Jeep looks

good as new. He pulls a canvas cover over it.

INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Kelly walks in on his dad ABE making sandwiches. A great big

pile of cheese and PB&J.

Kelly doesn't smile at this. He looks at the sandwiches and

puts his finger to his chin in a gesture so facetious it's

downright angry.

Abe grabs two pieces of bread from a loaf. He looks kind. A

bit ill-used by life. The phrase "rode hard and put away

wet" comes to mind.

He finishes that sandwich and adds it to the pile.

Kelly pauses while opening the refrigerator. His back

tightens. He slams the door with his foot.

Abe pauses over a slice of bread only briefly. The hostility

is nothing new.

Kelly walks through the kitchen and out the back door.

INT. ERNSWILER GARAGE - NIGHT

Kelly opens the screen door and pokes his head in.

A family of Chinese immigrants, the Lings, paints canvases

at long worktables. There's a MOTHER, father MAO, grandmother

XIOU-XIOU, SON and DAUGHTER.

Finished canvases hang from the walls and lean in piles

against it. All of them are portraits of animals. Some have

on hats or clothes.

Kelly's mom EVE shows grandmother XIOU-XIOU a few strokes

with a paintbrush.

Eve wears jeans. She's one of those young-looking mothers

Kelly's friends would have crushes on. If he had any friends.

Eve demonstrates on the painting - a pair of monkeys in French

court dress. Kelly looks over his mom's shoulder.

Grandmother Xiou-Xiou dabs at the painting.

Eve moves along the row, stopping to look at the paintings

in progress.

But Eve has stopped behind Mao's painting. She's not paying

attention to Kelly.

She gestures at the image of a horse done Santa Fe style,

lots of pastels, very abstract.

Mao looks at her quizzically.

His family nods in support of this rash aesthetic statement.

Eve rolls her eyes.

Kelly breaks in.

Eve moves down the line.

At this the family nods and smiles to each other, pleased

with the news.

Eve looks up at him for the first time. Takes in his filthy

uniform.

Eve stops at Mother Ling's painting.

Mother Ling looks up at Kelly, who's scowling. She smiles

and nods, understanding.

Kelly leaves. Eve's busy talking.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Kelly comes back in a grabs a sandwich off the pile.

Kelly looks at him and bites into the sandwich.

Kelly leaves with the sandwich. Abe sighs and picks up more

bread.

INT. KELLY'S ROOM - NIGHT

On the walls a poster for the Civil War miniseries next to

one of Led Zeppelin. Some maps. A globe. Models of fighter

planes and a set of old tin soldiers.

Oh yeah, and his mom's ORIGINAL PAINTING, the one that started

it all, this one signed by her - a very intense looking pink

rabbit glaring out of the canvas with huge eyes.

He sits on the edge of the bed for a minute staring into

space before he peels off his muddy uniform piece by piece.

INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT

Ah, the graveyard shift. Musak Steely Dan.

Kelly unpacks cat food.

Thousands and thousands of little cans of it. It's hard to

keep the rows straight on the shelves.

SARAH, the night cashier, stands at her register. She's plain-

looking now but she'll be beautiful later when she figures

out who she is.

Not another soul in the store. Sarah wanders over to Kelly's

aisle as if pulled by a magnet.

Kelly doesn't stop working. He's got a system.

Kelly grabs another handful of cans.

Kelly pauses. He puts two cans on the shelf very deliberately.

Kelly looks at her, thinks about this, and stands up.

Sarah covers her head, huddled behind the boxes of cat food,

dodging cans.

Kelly goes back to stocking, satisfied.

Sarah stands up and starts to wander away but Kelly makes a

peace offering.

Sarah looks at her feet, considering whether or not to accept

it.

INT. DAIRY BACKROOM

Sarah and Kelly sit on milk crates, pass the cookies back

and forth and get philosophical.

He fishes for a cookie.

An ANGRY WOMAN pushes open the swinging door of the backroom

with her loaded shopping cart.

Sarah gets up. Kelly stays right where he is, finishing a

cookie.

Sarah smiles and hurries away.

INT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY

Kelly walks down the hall with his army-issue BACKPACK slung

over one shoulder. Besides a serious case of bedhead, he

looks normal.

No one says hi to him as he makes his way to his locker.

As he twirls the combination and opens it, he notices LANCE --

short and wide, built like a tank, prematurely balding, and

his girlfriend BRIDGET embracing a few lockers down.

They kiss raunchily, their tongues darting in and out of

each other's mouths.

Lance sees Kelly looking and stops kissing.

Kelly shakes his head and gets a book out of his locker.

Kelly closes his locker and walks away.

Bridget wipes her mouth guiltily.

Lance shakes his head and pulls Bridget to him, grinding his

pelvis against hers.

She walks away.

INT. CLASSROOM -- DAY

The lights are off in history class.

The teacher MR. NORMAN shows slides on the Civil War. The

more we see the clearer it becomes that they are his own

photos from a vacation spent visiting the memorials.

Mr. Norman smiles out at his class in shot after shot.

He clicks the remote and a photo of his WIFE, crouched over

and wearing shorts, drinking from a garden hose appears on

screen.

He hurries through to the next slide.

It doesn't matter anyway. Everyone is almost asleep.

Except Kelly, who becomes increasingly irritated the more

Mr. Norman talks.

Kelly shifts in his seat.

But Mr. Norman doesn't start talking again.

He waits, looking at Kelly, smiling blandly. Until the silence

becomes uncomfortable. And Kelly gets mad.

INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Fresh flowers and a crocheted tissue box hoodie make the

place cozy.

Kelly sits across the desk from PRINCIPAL HOLMSTEAD, a well-

groomed woman with a gentle talk show host demeanor.

Kelly doesn't move. He's not into this.

Ms. Holmstead is exasperated, but she likes him in spite of

herself. He's a smart cookie. She's got to change her

strategy.

She leans back in her chair.

Her chair SQUEAKS as she leans forward and looks at Kelly

intently.

Holmstead tries again. She looks down at his file.

Kelly shrugs. Holmstead searches his face for any clues.

She shakes her head and swings her chair towards the window

and gazes out at the front walkway of the school. Her face

clears. Something's clicked.

EXT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY

School's been out for a while. The first rush had already

left.

Kelly comes down the front steps and starts across the parking

lot to his Jeep.

Lance steps out from behind an SUV and intercepts him.

Kelly hardly stops walking.

Lance runs and grabs Kelly's backpack.

Kelly tries to start walking again but Lance has hold of

him.

Lance grabs Kelly's arm and yanks it back. Kelly still seems

unconcerned.

Suddenly he pulls away, but Lance keeps hold of his backpack.

Lance holds the backpack up next to his head and points at

it, gleeful.

Lance walks away towards his car. Kelly runs after him.

Lance holds Kelly off easily with one hand and throws the

backpack into his SUV. They STRUGGLE for a minute, until

Lance pushes Kelly away, gets in the car.

Kelly runs next to the car and pounds on the window as Lance

drives off.

Finally, Kelly gives up. Lance turns out of the parking lot

and HONKS the horn.

Kelly shakes his head.

INT. ARMY NAVY STORE - DAY

Kelly sifts through a pile of backpacks looking for a

replacement. From his post behind the counter, Bart sees him

and comes over.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, DAD'S LIBRARY - DAY

Kelly stands a bit awkwardly waiting for Bart to get the key

from the desk to open the door in the corner. The door finally

swings open.

INT. STOREROOM

Bart and Kelly stand between shelves piled high with war

memorabilia. Uniforms in vacu-pac sealed bags, weapons in

shoeboxes, cannonballs and tattered and gunsmoke-darkened

flags.

Kelly holds up a flask in a leather case.

Bart opens the long box. Nestled inside is a leg bone with a

foot attached to it.

Kelly nods. That is balls.

Bart puts down the box carelessly and paws through the piles.

INT. BOWLAND KITCHEN

Bart and Kelly sit at the kitchen table drinking sodas,

waiting for MINNIE, the housekeeper, to finish making them

dinner.

A pause. Kelly decides to tell him.

TABBY, Bart's older sister comes in.

She's older. Definitely in college, if not out. And totally

shockingly beautiful. Otherworldly.

Kelly laughs. And looks at Tabby more closely.

She opens the fridge and gets a yogurt.

Tabby leaves. Kelly's distracted.

Bart rolls his eyes, indicating what he thinks of good old

Miner.

Kelly nods, doesn't say anything.

Kelly glances at the door Tabby left from.

Kelly looks at Bart with suspicion -- and respect.

EXT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - MORNING

Kelly hops out of his Jeep and walks towards the front of

the school.

Lance is there, hanging out with Bridget and some of his Cro-

Magnon FRIENDS.

He wears a WW II CAP, overseas airborne style, obviously

Kelly's.

The Cro-Magnons grunt approvingly at this witty repartee.

Ooh. The Cro-Magnons laugh at Lance and EGG him on - "You

gonna take that?"/"He just called you a fag", etc.

Lance frowns and grabs Kelly.

Still holding on to him with one arm, he SLAPS Kelly hard

across the face with the other.

Kelly's knees give a bit. Lance holds him up.

Lance looks over at her and releases Kelly.

Kelly is hurt but covering.

Kelly frowns and adjusts his clothes. Tries to re-wet the

dry inside of his mouth with his tongue.

He turns slowly and trudges up the stairs.

Sarah has been watching the whole thing from the door.

INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - DAY

Kelly watches TV in the living room. His cheek has a nice

bruise on it. Eve enters.

Kelly looks at the TV.

Eve goes to her purse and rifles through it to find her

wallet.

Eve sighs.

Kelly jabs at the remote.

Eve waits through this.

Eve comes over to Kelly. He sighs and puts his hand out.

She gives him the money.

She puts her hand up but he moves away from it.

INT. ART SUPPLY STORE - DAY

Kelly looks through the paints, picking out tubes. He looks

up and sees Tabby browsing the paintbrushes.

He's suddenly nervous. He knocks over a few cans of thinner.

Almost leaves.

Instead, he gathers his courage, goes to the display opposite

hers and waits to catch her eye.

It takes Tabby a second to recognize him.

Tabby looks at him suspiciously like she's not sure whether

to believe him.

Tabby finishes with the mediums and moves onto the paints.

Kelly follows her, staying in the opposite aisle.

In spite of herself, Tabby laughs at this. This gives Kelly

more confidence. He leans over the aisle to see what she's

looking at.

Kelly comes around and leans nonchalantly against the shelves,

knocks more things over and fumbles to replace them.

Tabby walks to the counter with her brushes.

Kelly looks down and partially confesses.

Tabby signs the slip and takes the bag. She walks out, Kelly

with her, matches her pace, talking.

Tabby gets into her car. Kelly leans into her window.

Tabby tries to conceal her smile and starts her car.

She drives away. Kelly stands there watching. Then he winces.

EXT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - DAY

Kelly pulls up in his Jeep. He turns off the engine but

doesn't get out. Just sits there. He doesn't want to go in.

EXT. FLEA MARKET - DAY

Colored plastic flags droop in the sun.

MILITARY STALL

Bart sweeps his eye over everything. A SKINNY GUY wearing a

wife beater has some not half-bad stuff.

Kelly, bruise faded to yellow and green, examines a glass

mason jar of what seems to be dirt.

The guy shrugs.

Bart acts casual, hands clasped behind his back.

Bart pulls out a paper bag and offers it to the skinny guy,

who looks inside.

Kelly is shocked. The skinny guy looks at his suspiciously.

The skinny guy looks at Bart, and in the bag again. He goes

to get the backpack. Kelly's impressed by this smooth

exchange.

FLEA MARKET - BETWEEN ROWS

Kelly and Bart weave through the maze of stands. Kelly now

holds the backpack.

CAMPAIGN PIN STALL

A frowsy WOMAN in a muumuu sits fanning herself in front of

an extensive display of pins and buttons.

The woman considers this, her fan working back and forth

lazily.

Bart paws through the box. Acts casual.

FLEA MARKET FOOD COURT

Kelly and Bart, now wearing the smiling black & white face

of Geraldine Ferraro, eat disgusting yet delicious flea market

food and watch a slow-motion bingo game.

They eat for a minute to the soothing sounds of the BINGO

CALLER: TWENTY-ONE, THIRTEEN, FOUR, SEVENTY-EIGHT.

Bart does some fake sign language to help Kelly out.

Bart pushes Kelly, who grabs his arm like it got hurt.

Bart shrugs.

Interested, Bart leans forward.

Kelly shakes his head.

Bart tosses his wrapper at the trashcan. Kelly watches it

hit the rim and go in.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Bart and Kelly sit amidst a spread of books, papers, and

electronic equipment.

Bart opens a pad.

Bart grabs a book and starts flipping through pages.

Tabby enters with an armful of art supplies.

Bart doesn't look up. He grabs another book.

Bart raises his eyebrow. Kelly shrugs off the look.

INT. TABBY'S STUDIO - NIGHT

Tabby drops the canvas and points at the table. Kelly dumps

the bars and stands there looking around.

At the wood floors and skylights. Couch covered with a sheet.

Painting, serious ones, with layers of paint and mysterious

objects stuck to them lay against the walls. They all seem

faded, like a vacation photo that's been through the wash.

Kelly moves to the PAINTING on the easel.

Very yellow and pink. Kind of looks like castles.

Tabby wrestles with the bolt of canvas.

Kelly resumes his tour of the room.

Tabby unrolls the canvas and measures lengths.

Kelly is silent for a while, fiddling with a clamp light.

Tabby cuts the canvas.

Kelly nods.

Tabby sits back on her heels and looks at him.

Bart's head appears in the open door.

Bart leaves. Kelly stands by the door. This is his only

chance.

Tabby smiles. Kelly leaves.

EXT. BOWLAND YARD - NIGHT

Bart and Kelly walk across the yard.

They skirt around the pool.

INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Kelly comes out of the kitchen with a glass of water in pajama

bottoms and a T-shirt. The TV's on static. He sees a FIGURE

sleeping on the couch and starts to walk through the room.

Then he stops, sighs, and backtracks. He turns off the TV.

Then he sees the empty bottle of wine next to the couch.

The figure doesn't move. Kelly doesn't know what to do.

Kelly looks around, worried. In this house an unresponsive

dad isn't necessarily sleeping. Should he wake up his mom?

He shakes the figure slightly. It rolls over, only it's not

his dad. It's some scabby ADDICT. Kelly yanks his hand away.

A moment.

EXT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, BACK YARD - NIGHT

Abe sits on a lawn chair.

Kelly comes out, unfolds another chair and sits next to his

dad - a good distance away.

They both look up at the sky.

Kelly frowns.

Abe laughs.

Kelly nods, considering this.

Abe slams his hands down on the arms of his chair.

Kelly claps slowly.

Abe closes his eyes.

Kelly gets up.

Abe looks at Kelly.

They look at each other. Kelly shakes his head and goes

inside. Abe looks up at the sky.

EXT. LANCE'S HOUSE - DAY

In a backyard tree house next door sit Kelly and Bart, Kelly

looking through a pair of M3 field glasses.

BINOCULAR MATTE

Through the twin circles Lance gets into his car in front of

his house.

Kelly hands the glasses over. Bart looks through them. Then

he puts them down.

The boys looks at each other.

Bart opens up a duffel bag and pulls out a yellow jumpsuit

which he puts on. Kelly looks through the binoculars.

THE LAWN

The boys climb down out of the tree house.

Bart is dressed in an official-looking yellow jumpsuit with

telephone repairmen's tool hanging from his belt and a hard

hat on. Kelly carries a toolbox.

He looks at Kelly. Then he holds up one finger and gestures

"go." They sneak hunched over towards the fence. A LITTLE

GIRL comes out of the house and stops when she sees them.

Bart and Kelly look at each other. Bart takes the toolbox

and gestures to Kelly by pointing at the girl and covering

his mouth.

Kelly peels off towards the girl while Bart continues across

the lawn.

The girl starts to SCREAM. Kelly swoops up and covers her

mouth with his hand. He tucks her under his arm and runs

towards the opposite side of the house.

He puts the girl down, still covering her mouth.

The girl nods. Kelly takes his hand off her mouth and starts

to sneak away.

Kelly runs across the street to get a view of the front door.

IN FRONT OF LANCE'S HOUSE

Bart turns up the driveway and RINGS the doorbell.

LANCE'S MOTHER opens the door. Bart confers with her briefly

and steps inside. The door closes behind him.

Kelly stares so hard at the door he doesn't see the NEIGHBOR

come up behind him.

Kelly starts and turns.

Kelly grabs a few blades of grass.

Kelly gets up and starts to walk down the street, only -

Lance PULLS UP in his SUV.

Kelly darts behind a parked car and watches Lance go into

the house.

Lance comes right back out. He forgot something in his car.

Kelly moves around the car, trying to keep it between him

and Lance.

Bart comes down the front walk whistling and eating a cookie.

He smiles at Lance, now coming back up the walk.

Bart nods and tips his HARD HAT.

Kelly follows him on the other side of the row of cars until

Lance's house is out of sight.

Then he gets in step beside Bart.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, BART'S ROOM - DAY

The boys sit around an FM receiver/recorder.

Bart FLIPS the ON switch and Lance's Mom's voice fills the

room.

The boys smile with delight.

Kelly shakes his head as the women natter away.

Kelly gets up to leave while Bart fiddles with the knobs.

INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Abe and Eve have dinner together.

Eve looks at her husband and sees he's not paying attention.

He seems a little out of it. He's pushing his food around on

his plate.

Kelly comes in, walks through the kitchen and up the stairs.

His parents eat for a minute in silence. Abe winces and puts

down his fork. Eve smiles tenderly at him.

Abe puts his hand over hers.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, BART'S ROOM - NIGHT

Bart moves around the room excitedly.

Kelly hits a button. The tape clicks ON. From the speakers

comes:

Kelly stops the tape.

Bart and Kelly share a look. Kelly grins.

All we have to do is fill in the details and let Operation

Deadmeat begin.

INT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY

Bridget primps at her locker while Kelly watches nervously

from his.

When she starts to close the locker door, Kelly rushes towards

her and BUMPS into her. Her books and papers spill to the

floor.

He starts picking them up.

She looks around. If Lance showed up it wouldn't be good for

either of them.

Kelly hands her the rest of her stuff. They part ways.

Kelly shoves a piece of paper into his pocket.

Principal Holmstead CLICKS down the hall in her heels and

Kelly DUCKS into a doorway just in time. He turns and pretends

to look at a posted announcement as she passes.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, BART'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Bart inspects Bridget's book report with a jeweler's loop.

He swings over to a piece of stationary Kelly's working on.

They both crouch over the paper.

He pushes back from the table.

Kelly takes out a fresh sheet of paper.

INT. LANCE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Lance, shirtless, reads aloud from the letter.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Bart wears his school uniform and sits in the passenger seat

next to Kelly.

Kelly just looks at him. Bart's already asked this question.

Kelly pulls up in front of Bart's school.

Bart turns to him and puts a hand on his shoulder.

Bart hops out and salutes Kelly, who give him the thumbs up

in response and pulls away.

INT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY

Lance can't keep his hands off Bridget.

Lance cackles.

The bell RINGS.

Bridget looks a little scared.

INT. HISTORY CLASS

Lance slouches into a seat next to Kelly, who drops another

STATIONARY NOTE into Lance's open backpack.

Kelly watches as Lance grabs his book, sees the note, opens

it, and leers.

Kelly looks down at his desk and smiles.

Lance raises his hand.

Lance leaves like a house afire.

INT. HALL

Lance sneaks down the hall towards the STORAGE CLOSET and

whispers into the door.

He pulls open the door. Nothing.

INT. STORAGE CLOSET

Lance turns on the light. No one there.

But propped up on the shelf next to a vase with a rose in it

is another note.

He snatches the note. His eyes widen as he reads.

INT. LANGELY PREP, BATHROOM - DAY

Bart crouches in the stall, looking at his watch.

When the second hand sweeps past the twelve, he opens his

cell phone and punches in a number.

INT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH, CAFETERIA/GYM - DAY

Lunchtime. Typical bedlam. KIDS mill around.

At one end of the cafeteria/gym is a small stage, the kind

pep rallies are held on.

Lance edges his way through the crowd, making a beeline for

the STAGE DOOR.

INT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH, MAIN OFFICE

A confused Bridget stands at the SECRETARY'S desk.

The secretary hands Bridget the message. She looks at it.

INT. BACKSTAGE

Lance looks around eagerly.

He peeks through the curtains at all the kids and can barely

contain his excitement.

He spots a WOMAN in the shadows.

It must be Bridget.

He unbuckles his pants and lets them drop to him knees.

He rips off his shirt and shuffles across the dark stage

toward her.

INT. LIGHTING BOOTH

Kelly looks at his watch.

INT. LANGELY PREP CLASSROOM

Bart looks at his watch in anticipation.

INT. LIGHTING BOOTH

Kelly flicks a switch and presses a button.

INT. CAFETERIA

The crowd falls silent and turns towards the mechanical sound

of the STAGE CURTAIN OPENING.

They squint from the BRIGHT STAGE LIGHTS.

SHOCK ripples through the crowd as they take in the tableau

revealed to them:

A frozen half-naked Lance on his knees before a BLOW-UP DOLL

tied to a chair.

Bridget, standing in the doorway, covers her mouth in horror.

Lance stumbles off stage to HOOTS and CATCALLS, but mostly

hysterical LAUGHTER.

INT. LIGHTING BOOTH

Kelly smiles, laughs and claps his hands with delight. Then

he returns to military precision. He turns all the switches

back to how they were and uses his shirtsleeve to cover the

doorknob so as not to leave fingerprints.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, DAD'S LIBRARY - NIGHT

Bart pours them two glasses of his dad's scotch. He's

overjoyed.

They raise their glasses to each other.

They both take swallows of scotch. Kelly retches.

Kelly finishes his scotch.

The drink again. Kelly's feet are up. For the first time, he

looks comfortable.

INT. SUPERMARKET - NIGHT

Sarah stands at her register, flipping through a magazine.

Kelly pulls up on the ELECTRO-SHOPPER with field goggles on.

He puts his foot down like a kickstand.

Kelly runs his hand lovingly along the frame. Then he looks

up at Sarah.

Sarah gets on behind him.

He puts his foot up and kicks it into gear.

The Electro-shopper takes off - barely. Kelly takes the corner

too sharp and clips the edge of an END CAP DISPLAY of cereal

boxes -- they fall to the floor.

The Electro-shopper inches forward.

INT. PARENT'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Kelly looks in at his parents, checking to make sure they're

still asleep.

When he leaves ABE opens his eyes and listens to the door

CLOSE downstairs.

INT. EVE'S STUDIO

Kelly throws some paints and brushes into his backpack.

EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - DAY

Kelly stands awkwardly on the front stoop with his backpack.

Minnie opens the door.

INT. TABBY'S STUDIO

Tabby stands barefoot in the sunlight, a palette knife in

her hand.

Music's playing. Jeff Buckley. She looks over as the door

opens, surprised.

She goes back to painting. Kelly stands there for a minute,

waiting for her to say something else, give him an invitation.

She doesn't. Until she looks up and sees him standing in the

same place.

Kelly looks through them and picks one.

He takes off his backpack and opens it.

Kelly busies himself pulling out paints and other supplies.

He can't help but look at her. The light hits her hair and

she glows. She catches him looking.

She turns back to her painting.

Kelly sets up his canvas.

Kelly feels the tubes of paint. Nervous. Squirts some color

out. Looks over his shoulder at her.

He's trying to get his act together, to be cool about being

there, in the studio, alone with her. Trying to figure out

how to play it.

Miner opens the door. See Kelly. Smiles like the stockbroker

he is and crosses to him.

Miner holds out his hand for a good old-fashioned shake.

Kelly takes it.

Miner looks confused.

Kelly smiles eagerly at Miner over the edge of his canvas.

Kelly spreads his arms out and flaps them a little.

Miner stares at Kelly. He can't tell what he might be making

fun of, or if it might be him.

Kelly rolls his eyes at this uninspired response, though

Miner doesn't see it. He grabs Tabby's paintbrush and pulls

her to him.

Kelly smiles his most idiotic energetic smile and slaps paint

on his canvas in exaggerated strokes.

Tabby kisses Miner. He realizes there's no convincing her

and sighs.

Miner looks at Kelly, who looks away.

Then he puts his hands in his pockets and leaves.

Tabby and Kelly paint in silence for a while. Kelly moves

around to look at his canvas from different angles, like

he's copying what he thinks a painter would do.

Tabby stops and puts down her brush.

Kelly paints.

Kelly is suddenly very involved with his painting. He has a

hard time making eye contact with Tabby.

She picks up her brush.

Kelly looks at her seriously.

Awkward silence.

Kelly stops and sighs, now back in serious artist mode.

Tabby stops painting.

Kelly puts up his thumb in an approximation of an artist's

gesture.

Kelly stops squeezing paint onto his palette. His gestures

slow down. He's taking this in. Then he shakes it off.

INT. EVE'S STUDIO - NIGHT

Kelly comes in to return the art supplies.

Xiou-Xiou's alone working. She looks up and smiles at Kelly.

Kelly walks over and sees what she's working on. A beautiful

spare Chinese landscape.

She gets out a piece of paper for him.

Kelly watches her for a minute, the delicate whoop and swirl

of her strokes.

He dips a brush into the ink and watches Xiou-Xiou's

restrained and confident movements.

Eve leans against the doorframe.

Kelly puts down the paintbrush.

Kelly avoids her eyes as he leaves.

Eve looks over Xiou-Xiou's shoulder.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Kelly eats with the Bowlands - Bart's mom, MATHILDA, his dad

HARRISON, and Tabby and Bart.

The Bowlands dress up a bit for dinner, like any good Wasp

family.

Bart frowns.

Everyone eats in silence.

Tabby puts down her fork.

Mathilda looks surprised. This could go either way.

Everyone but Bart LAUGHS.

Tabby throws Kelly a grateful glance, for getting her out of

a conversation she didn't want to have.

All but Bart LAUGHS again.

Kelly looks down at his plate.

Mathilda salts her food.

Mathilda beams.

If anyone notices the slight edge to Bart's voice, they ignore

it.

INT. BART'S ROOM

Kelly and Bart play PlayStation II "Medal of Honor" in Bart's

bedroom. Bart is sulking, almost imperceptibly.

Kelly stops playing and looks at Bart.

Bart's eyes stay on the screen.

Kelly jabs at his controller.

Kelly gives Bart a derisive glance.

The flickering TV light illuminates Bart's pinched look.

This annoys Kelly.

Bart glances at him.

Bart shakes his head.

Kelly's video game character dies. He drops the controller.

Bart plays on. He's keeping a lid on everything while Kelly

gets more and more agitated.

Kelly looks at Bart in disbelief.

Bart won't meet his eyes.

Bart pauses the game.

Kelly gets up and grabs his jacket.

He leaves. Bart un-pauses the game and continues playing.

INT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY

Kelly drinks from the fountain and wipes his mouth on his

sleeve.

Principal Holmstead's smiling face greets him when he

straightens up.

Kelly frowns at the Principal's back as she CLICKS away.

Sarah appears. They walk down the hall together.

Kelly starts to pull ahead.

She stands there looking lost.

EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - DAY

Kelly smoothes the cover over his Jeep. Bart pulls up to the

curb in his BMW.

INT. OLD SOLDIERS' HOME - DAY

A few OLD SOLDIERS sit sunning in chairs in the industrial

feeling living-room.

Bart and Kelly sit across from CHARLIE HAYES, an old black

guy, playing dominos.

Charlie sorts his tiles and scowls. He leans in to Kelly's

face, giving him the eye.

Kelly is taken aback by this.

Charlie leans back and nods, thinking about Kelly's response.

He no longer seems angry.

Charlie sets down a tile and pulls at his chin.

Bart gives Kelly a significant look. Kelly doesn't notice.

He's looking closely at Charlie.

EXT. GAS STATION - DAY

Kelly sits in the car. Bart pumps gas. They talk through the

window.

Bart grins.

Kelly avoids this by getting out of the car.

Bart returns the pump and screws in the gas cap.

Just then he glances towards the gas station and sees EVE,

set up in the adjacent abandoned lot. She's got the van parked

there with the sliding door open and paintings propped around

on display.

But Eve has seen him. She shields her eyes with her hand and

calls to him.

Kelly backtracks towards the car.

Eve walks over to them. Kelly can't get out of it.

Eve smiles brightly.

Bart is surprised but recovers his manners quickly, just

like he's been taught to.

Eve laughs.

Kelly shifts his weight from foot to foot. Eve looks at both

of them.

Eve watches a car pull into the lot next to the van.

Kelly visibly bristles at the thought of his parents

entertaining Bart.

Eve looks at Kelly. Then she runs back over to the van.

Kelly rolls his eyes and gets back in the car.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, BART'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Kelly watches Bart pick through parts of his uniform.

After the encounter with mom, he's retreated into himself.

Kelly doesn't say anything.

Kelly runs his hand through his hair. He can't bring himself

to say what's really on his mind.

Kelly picks up Bart's Colt and sights with it. Bart frowns.

He knows Kelly's avoiding the real stuff.

Bart polishes his combat boots.

Bart keeps his head down, polishes intently.

Bart checks his bandoleer and cartridges.

Bart pauses, darts his eyes at Kelly.

Bart watches Kelly's face.

Bart throws his olive drab socks at Kelly's head.

EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - NIGHT

Kelly waves to Minnie and goes out the front door.

There he pauses, trying to decide what to do. Then he scowls.

He goes around the corner. Towards Tabby's studio.

INT. TABBY'S STUDIO

Tabby sits on the couch facing away from the door. Kelly

enters.

Tabby turns toward him. She's crying.

He knows he should leave, but Kelly just stands there.

Kelly runs his hand along his pants in a nervous gesture.

Tabby dabs at her face.

Beat.

Kelly walks over to her painting.

Kelly stops, taken aback. He walks away from the painting.

Kelly walks to the window and looks out.

Tabby laughs/cries at this.

Tabby nods. She's starting to calm down a little.

Tabby looks at her shredded tissue. Kelly sits down on the

couch next to her.

Kelly pats her knee awkwardly.

Tabby turns her face to Kelly's.

Tabby closes her eyes.

Kelly looks scared. He wants to retreat. But he calms himself

down.

Long pause. Then -- Kelly kisses her. She kisses back and

they fall against the couch together.

EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - NIGHT

Bart comes out in his pajamas to turn off the sprinkler. He

looks up and freezes.

Kelly comes out of Tabby's studio. He shuts the door carefully

and walks around the pool.

Kelly doesn't see Bart.

Bart doesn't say anything. He just watches Kelly go.

INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - DAY

Kelly throws parts of his soldier's kit onto his bed from

corners of the room. The canteen underhand. The Jeep cap as

a free throw. This is the best day of his life.

Until he finds his uniform crumpled up behind the door, still

crusted with mud.

He flops on his bed. But he can't help it. Soon he's smiling

again. He gets up, gathers up the uniform, and tears out of

the room.

INT. KITCHEN

Kelly comes down the stairs two at a time, singing.

Eve and Abe watch surprised from the table. Abe looks pale.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, BART'S ROOM - NIGHT

Bart sits in his desk chair, frowning.

Mathilda knocks and opens the door.

Mathilda pauses and looks at her son.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - DAY

An ASSISTANT DIRECTOR and CAMERAMAN unload equipment from a

van.

The DIRECTOR looks off into the distance, trying to visualize.

Kelly pulls up next to the van. He wears a spotlessly clean

uniform.

Kelly doesn't go anywhere.

CRAFT SERVICE

Kelly and a half dozen other SOLDIERS stand or sit in the

grass around the table. They talk and rest on their backpacks.

A MAKEUP ARTIST makes the rounds.

She gets out some pomade and runs a comb through his hair,

slicking it back.

Kelly grins. When she walks away he messes up his hair again.

He scans the crowd. No Bart.

The A.D. walks over.

Kelly tries to act casual.

He walks towards his Jeep and pauses.

Kelly nods, wondering a bit. But it's soon forgotten.

BEHIND THE HILL

Kelly waits with his rifle next to his Jeep, bored.

He sees a FIGURE in the shadows of the trees.

He raises his rifle and points it at the figure.

Bart steps out of the barn.

Bart doesn't say anything.

Kelly shakes his head, avoiding Bart's eyes, trying to keep

it normal.

Bart looks at Kelly. Sees nothing but a kid in an old Army

uniform.

The blood rises to Kelly's face.

But he still won't look at Bart.

Kelly's hands turn white around the rifle.

Bart comes closer. Uncomfortably close.

Kelly finally raises his head.

And looks Bart right in the eyes.

Bart lunges at Kelly.

EXT. FILM SHOOT

The camera's set up.

The groups are in position.

The A.D. stands by the cameraman.

GRAY CLOUD EXPLODES

In the field. Soldiers leap out of trenches.

Nothing happens.

The A.D. shakes his head.

BEHIND THE BARN

The A.D. comes around the corner followed by the cameraman.

Bart and Kelly roll around on the ground.

Bart and Kelly continue to fight.

The cameraman puts his camera up to his eye and films.

Kelly finally pushes Bart off him, gets in his Jeep and drives

away.

Bart sits on the ground, out of breath.

The A.D. directs the camera at Bart.

Bart pushes the camera away.

INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, KELLY'S ROOM - DAY

Kelly lays in bed staring at the ceiling. There's a cut across

his eyebrow.

Eve comes in carrying her car keys and sits on the bed.

Eve plays with her keys. Then she stops.

Kelly feels the sensation of falling, like a dream.

Then he snorts and rolls over, away from his mom.

Eve looks at the back of Kelly's head. She's tired but still

trying to deal.

Kelly gets up. Puts his feet on the floor. His shoulders are

slumped.

He gets up and holds the door open for her. Eve looks at

him, heart heavy. She leaves.

Kelly sits on the bed. Then he looks at the rabbit painting.

He grabs it off the wall and SLAMS it backwards against the

floor so he doesn't have to look at it.

The painting falls back against the bayonet fixed to Kelly's

rifle and TEARS.

He KICKS it.

INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT

Kelly angrily wrestles with giant boxes of paper towels.

He RIPS open the box and they roll everywhere.

Sarah watches from checkout. She comes over to help him pick

them up.

Kelly doesn't say anything.

Kelly gathers an armful of paper towels.

Sarah puts a couple of rolls on the shelf.

Kelly stops what he's doing.

Sarah drops the rolls she had in her hands.

She leaves. Kelly shakes his head.

INT. TABBY'S STUDIO - MORNING

Kelly, still in his work clothes, comes in without knocking.

He stops when he sees Tabby and Miner sleeping together on

the couch.

Tabby opens her eyes.

Kelly goes and takes his painting off the easel.

Kelly leaves.

EXT. BOWLAND YARD

Tabby follows Kelly across the yard.

Kelly stops and turns around.

Tabby smiles sadly.

They stand there in the yard. Tabby wraps her arms around

herself.

Tabby looks at Kelly, pained.

She takes a step towards him. He backs up.

Kelly looks at Tabby for a second, then turns and walks away.

EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY

Kelly drives along an open stretch of road. He throws the

painting out of the Jeep.

He comes to a turn and takes it much too fast.

The Jeep SKIDS, teeters on two wheels, and goes over the

embankment.

BOTTOM OF DITCH

Steam trails up from the Jeep's radiator. The front end is

completely smashed.

Kelly bangs his fist against the steering wheel.

Then he calm himself, gets out, and starts walking.

EXT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY

Kelly rides an old bike up to the bike rack and locks it.

INT. HISTORY CLASS

Kelly comes in late.

Kelly closes his eyes. He had forgotten - or tried to forget.

The class bolts for the door.

Mr. Norman looks at Kelly pleasantly.

INT. AUDITORIUM

Kelly sits in a chair on the stage next to Mr. Norman.

A scattering of KIDS sit out in the auditorium.

Principal Holmstead stands at the podium.

Scattered LAUGHTER. Kelly frowns.

Kelly rises to scant applause. He stands at the podium,

looking out at the crowd.

He looks down and thinks. He looks back up. The silence

stretches. Kids start giggling.

Finally he leans into the microphone.

He walks off stage.

EXT. SHAKER HEIGHTS HIGH - DAY

On his knees Kelly fumbles with his bike lock, getting madder

and madder. Just as he's about to get it undone --

Lance appears.

Kelly frowns at the lock.

Kelly looks up at Lance.

Lance pushes Kelly away from his bike. Kelly falls back on

his hands.

He squints up at Lance and moves back towards his bike.

Lance KICKS him back with his foot and looks at him.

Lance KICKS him again. Kelly breathes hard.

Lance picks Kelly up and SLAPS him hard on the face.

Lance PUNCHES Kelly and he reels. Then Kelly lunges for him

and they fall to the ground. Kelly swings wildly but Lance

pins him down and gives him a few good ones.

Then Mr. Norman comes out.

Mr. Norman rushes over to them.

Kelly scrambles up and rips at his bike lock, gets on his

bike and rides away.

Mr. Norman tries to take a panting Lance by the arm but Lance

shakes him off.

EXT. ERNSWILER HOUSE - DAY

Kelly rides by his house and keeps going.

EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Kelly stops and looks up at the hospital but can't bring

himself to go in. He pedals on.

EXT. CLEVELAND WATERFRONT - DAY

Kelly sits on the loading dock of an abandoned factory.

He watches the rusty barges glitter on the water. The wind

ruffles his sweaty hair.

EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - DAY

Kelly's at the front door.

She closes the door. Kelly wheels his bike down the driveway.

He sees Bart sitting out by the pool with a couple of LANGELY

BOYS.

Bart sees Kelly and ignores him, laughs at something one of

the guys says.

INT. ERNSWILER HOUSE, BATHROOM - DAY

Kelly sits on the toilet, putting a bandage on a red scrape

down his arm.

Eve appears in the doorway.

Kelly looks up at her. He's still got the cut eyebrow, which

has split back open, and some dried blood under his nose.

Eve comes over and tilts Kelly's head back to look at the

cut. This is the first time she's touched him.

She gets some antiseptic and ointment from under the sink

along with Band-Aids and goes to work.

Kelly lets her dab at his face. He closes his eyes.

Kelly opens his eyes and pulls away.

Eve puts a butterfly bandage across Kelly's eyebrow.

Kelly pulls his head away.

Eve looks at Kelly sadly.

Eve shakes her head.

Eve rises to her feet. He's just sent her over the edge.

She stops and breaks down.

Eve looks at her son. Her face looks older.

Eve leaves. Kelly sits on the toilet, lost.

INT. KELLY'S ROOM - MORNING

The sun shines in through Kelly's window.

He's laying in bed awake - has been for a while.

He gets up and starts dressing slowly and deliberately. He

puts on his best shirt and tie, sensing trouble when the

tie's too short.

He pulls the suit out of his closet.

The jacket doesn't fit. The sleeves don't even go down to

his wrists.

And he can hardly button the pants. He rips off the jacket.

He pulls everything out of his closet. Nothing there.

He sits on the edge of his bed with his head in his hands.

He looks at his DRESS UNIFORM, hanging on the back of the

closet in its dry-cleaning bag, right where his mom left it.

He shakes his head. No, he couldn't do that.

Then he sighs.

EXT. EPISCOPAL CHURCH - DAY

It's decorated for a wedding. Flower garlands trail up the

banisters.

GUESTS trickle in.

Harrison, dressed in a suit with a boutonniere on his lapel,

talks to an USHER.

Bart comes outside, also dressed as an usher.

Bart walks down the steps and looks down the street.

Kelly's walking towards him. IN HIS DRESS UNIFORM.

Bart walks down the street to meet him.

Kelly looks down. He can't meet Bart's eyes.

Bart looks at Kelly and shakes his head.

Kelly doesn't answer.

Kelly finally looks up at Bart and nods.

A Town Car pulls up.

Tabby gets out in her wedding dress. Has there even been a

more glorious woman? Will there ever be again?

Her MAID OF HONOR leads her around to the side of the church.

Kelly watches every step.

Kelly walks off.

Bart watches him go.

INT. BOWLAND HOUSE, KELLY'S ROOM - DAY

Kelly sits on the edge of the bed, head in hands.

He sees the torn rabbit painting. After a minute, he picks

it up and looks at it.

INT. EVE'S STUDIO

Xiou-Xiou sits painting. Kelly enters with the rabbit.

She examines it and takes out a wet sponge. She wipes it

across the back of the canvas.

She works silently for a minute. Kelly watches her. She cuts

a small piece of canvas to repair the hole.

She turns the painting over and gets out some paints to touch

it up.

INT. HOSPITAL, ABE'S ROOM - DAY

Eve sleeps in a chair next to Abe, in bed sleeping. He looks

pale but otherwise fine.

Kelly stands in the doorway, still in his uniform.

Abe comes to and sees him standing there.

Kelly comes into the room and sits in a chair.

Abe and Kelly look up at the television in the corner.

Both continue to look up at the television.

Abe looks at Kelly.

Kelly nods. Eve wakes up.

HOSPITAL CORRIDOR

Kelly and Eve get snacks from the vending machine.

Eve looks at Kelly, her face full of love and sadness.

Kelly nods slowly, taking this in. And it is finally too

much.

He breaks down and cries. For the fear and the misplaced

rage, the fights and the stubbornness.

But finally, relief.

They walk back down the hall together. Eve reaches out and

puts her hand on Kelly's neck.

EXT. BOWLAND HOUSE - DAY

Kelly rides his bike past the house and stops when he sees

the car packed up in front.

Bart comes out with a box of stuff.

Bart puts the box in the car.

They stand there.

Kelly gives him a little ra-ra with one hand. Bart smiles.

Kelly's been doing his research.

Kelly lifts his foot up to the pedal of his bike.

Bart laughs a little and shakes his head. Kelly is gone.

Harrison comes out.

Harrison checks the ties on the roof.

INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT

Kelly stocks shelves.

There's a NEW GIRL working the register.

Kelly sees SARAH come in. He follows her to the bakery.

Sarah picks some bagels.

Kelly moves around to her other side, closer.

Sarah moves away. Once bitten twice shy and all that.

Sarah walks to the front of the store. Kelly walks with her.

Sarah turns to him at the checkout aisle.

INT. OLD SOLDIERS' HOME - DAY

Kelly stands in the front of the room, pointing to a battle

plan with large arrows drawn on it.

Charlie, Mr. Norman, Principal Holmstead, Eve and Sarah sit

among other OLD SOLDIERS.

Kelly keeps talking. Many of the OLD SOLDIERS sleep.

DOMINO TABLE

Sarah, Kelly, and Eve play dominos with Charlie and Mr.

Norman.

Kelly tries to gesture to Sarah "no."

Mr. Norman smiles at the group.

EXT. OLD SOLDIERS' HOME - DAY

Eve waits while Kelly and Sarah walk out to Sarah's car.

Kelly helps Sarah into it and closes the door for her.

She pulls away. He watches her go.

