FADE IN:

EXT. TOWNHOUSE GARDEN - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON

An afternoon in late November, the leaves have left the

trees, and the early darkness of a winter dusk approaches.

The garden is long and narrow, guarded on either side by a

high brick wall. At one end stands the rear of a three-story

brick townhouse; at the other, a one story brick building.

CLASSICAL MUSIC is heard in the distance. A MAN, handsomely

dressed in a well-tailored suit of the 1920's, works in the

garden. A gardener's apron protects his suit from the earth

as he turns the loam along one of the walkways. He works

slowly,-precisely, obviously engrossed in his surroundings.

This man is called CHANCE.

Chance stops working for a moment, takes a pocket watch from

inside his coat, checks the time. He looks to the darkening

skies, returns the watch to his pocket. As Chance starts

toward the one story brick building, he takes a spotless rag

from his apron pocket and wipes the dirt from the tines of

his pitchfork.

INT. GARAGE - AFTERNOON

The sound of the music increases as Chance enters the garage

from the garden. A gleaming 1921 TOURING CAR is revealed as

he walks through the garage and leans the pitchfork against a

wall. Chance takes a neatly folded cover from a shelf,

carefully puts it over the car. When he finishes covering the

car for the night, Chance picks up the pitchfork, leaves the

garage through a side entry.

INT. POTTING ROOM - AFTERNOON

The Potting Room is filled with the tools of the gardener,

everything arranged in an orderly fashion. Rows of small pots

are on tables, young plants sprouting from some of them. A

small, 1940's table model black-and-white TV rests on a

shelf. It is playing, tuned to the BOSTON POPS ORCHESTRA.

Attached to the front of the screen is a wheel containing

colored gels. The wheels spins, creates an early form of

color TV. As Chance enters, his attention is on the

television set. He watches it as he oils the tines of the

pitchfork and puts it away. Chance turns off the TV and

leaves the room, but the sound of the Boston Pops continues.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

A room adjacent to the Potting Room. A large screen remote

control color television set dominates the room. It is on,

tuned to the Boston Pops. In contrast to the new TV, the rest

of the room is sparsely but tastefully decorated with

expensive furniture of the twenties. There are no books,

magazines, newspapers or reading matter of any kind to be

seen. Chance comes in, watches the TV with a detached gaze as

he removes his apron. He changes the channel with the remote

control as he puts his apron and the pitchfork rag into a

laundry bag. He takes off his suit jacket, hangs it in the

closet where it is accompanied by several others, all of like

quality. Chance changes the channel once again.

EXT. GARDEN - NIGHT

Chance, wearing a different suit and carrying the laundry

bag, crosses from the rear building to the main house.

INT. MAIN HOUSE - REAR ENTRANCE/HALLWAY - NIGHT

The interior of the main house has the mustiness of age, the

warmth of oak. White dropcloths and sheets cover all of the

furniture. Chance enters, walks through the hallway.

INT. MAIN HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

A large dropcloth is over the dining room table and chairs.

It is neatly folded back at one end, leaving one chair and

place setting uncovered. A small portable color TV is next to

the place setting.

Chance enters, puts his laundry bag on a covered table near

the doorway. He sits at the dining room table, turns on the

TV, and carefully unfolds his napkin, puts it on his lap as

he watches the screen. LOUISE, an elderly black maid, enters

with a tray of food and Chance's clean laundry.

Louise sets Chance's clean clothes on the small table, picks

up his laundry bag.

Chance, his manners impeccable, concentrates on the TV as he

eats. A buzzer SOUNDS, Louise looks upstairs.

Louise gives Chance a look.

Louise disappears through the doorway. Chance continues to

eat and watch TV.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - DAWN

Chance is asleep, lying on his back. His eyes slowly open,

and, with no change of expression, he sits up and turns on

the TV with the remote control. Chance gets out of bed, goes

to the dresser and takes his pocket watch out of a drawer,

checks the time. He crosses to the closet, his eyes never

straying from an early morning show on television. He puts on

a bathrobe and leaves the room.

INT. POTTING ROOM - DAWN

Chance enters, turns on the TV with the spinning color wheel,

then waters a few of the pots with a sprinkling can. He turns

off the TV and exits.

INT. GARAGE - DAWN

Chance comes into the garage, takes the cover off of the

touring car, folds it and puts it on a shelf. He leaves the

garage.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - DAWN

Chance returns to his room, changes channels on the

television, takes off his robe and hangs it back up in the

closet, then goes into the bathroom.

EXT. GARDEN - MORNING

A light snow is falling. The door to the small building

opens, Chance peeks out, then goes back inside. A few seconds

pass and Chance reappears, this time with an umbrella.

Smartly dressed in suit and tie, he crosses to the main

house.

INT. MAIN HOUSE - REAR ENTRANCE/HALLWAY - MORNING

Chance opens the door, shakes off and closes the umbrella

before entering. He hangs the umbrella on a doorknob, then

heads for the dining room.

INT. DINING ROOM - MORNING

Repeating his ritual, Chance enters the dining room, sits,

turns on the TV, carefully spreads his napkin on his lap. He

watches the screen for a moment, then turns, expecting

Louise. She doesn't appear, so he turns back, watches TV.

After a few beats, Chance hears Louise's footsteps hurrying

down the stairs. She comes into the dining room, visibly

distraught. Chance looks up, smiles.

A beat of silence from Louise, then anger.

Louise throws back the cover from a chair next to Chance and

sits, softening a bit toward him.

Louise gives Chance a long look, then turns to leave.

Chance nods in approval, then changes the channel on the TV.

INT. MAIN HOUSE - SERVANT'S STAIRWAY - MORNING

An enclosed stairway. Chance enters, proceeds up the stairs.

INT. MAIN HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - MORNING

Chance comes out of a doorway adjoining the main staircase.

He moves off down the hall.

INT. MAIN HOUSE - OLD MAN'S ROOM - MORNING

The furniture in this room is not covered with sheets but the

Old Man is. There is a polite knock at the door, then Chance

enters the room. As Chance moves slowly to the Old Man's bed,

we sense a feeling of respect from Chance, as well as a bit

of curiosity. Chance stands by the side of the bed for a

moment, then he reaches down and gently pulls the sheet back

from the Old Man's face. He touches the man's forehead,

lightly, briefly, then replaces the sheet. Chance moves to

the TV (like the one in his own room) and turns it on. He

sits in an easy chair next to the Old man's bed and watches a

movie from the early forties. Chance puts an arm out, rests

it on the Old Man's covered body. With the other, he changes

the channels with the remote control.

He returns to the channel with the forties movie and seems to

become absorbed in a scene in which a gentleman tips his hat

to a lady. The scene seems to have 'sunk into' his mind.

EXT. GARDEN - MORNING

It has stopped snowing. Chance, wearing a hat, the gardening

apron over his suit and boots, putters in the garden. Louise

comes out of the main house. She is dressed warmly, a scarf

over her head, a heavy coat. Chance sees her, tips his hat to

Louise exactly like the man he saw on television.

Louise gives his shoulder a squeeze, turns and moves toward

the house.

Louise waves as she enters the townhouse. Chance tips his hat

once again as she disappears.

INT. MAIN HOUSE - FRONT HALLWAY - MORNING

Louise enters the hallway, picks up a couple of suit cases

waiting by the door. She stops as she sees TWO MEN in white

carrying a stretcher down the main staircase. She notices the

ease with which they bring the Old Man's body down the

stairs.

The stretcher bearers move to the front door. Louise steps in

front of them.

Louise takes one more look at the covered body, then opens

the front door, leaves.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - DAY

The TV plays offstage as Chance washes up in the bathroom. He

finishes, comes into the bedroom, takes a pair of house

slippers from his closet, turns off the television and leaves

the room.

EXT. GARDEN - DAY

Chance, carrying his slippers, crosses through the layer of

fresh snow to the townhouse.

INT. DINING ROOM - DAY

Chance, wearing the slippers, enters and sits at his place.

He turns on the TV, puts the napkin on his lap. He watches TV

for a moment, then turns, looks for Louise. She does not

appear so he resumes watching TV. He changes channels, views

a wildly exciting FOOTBALL game. At a peak in the excitement,

he again switches channels. Chance watches TV News coverage

of the PRESIDENT of the United States greeting foreign

dignitaries at the White House.

CLOSE SHOTS on television reveal that the President uses a

two-handed handshake when meeting his guests. Unconsciously,

Chance grips one hand with the other, the scene on TV seeming

to have 'sunk into' his mind.

INT. TOWNHOUSE - FRONT HALLWAY - DAY

A key is heard in the lock. The door opens and THOMAS

FRANKLIN and SALLY HAYES enter. Franklin, an attorney, is in

his late thirties, carries a large briefcase. Hayes is

younger, attractive, also an attorney. She totes a briefcase,

has the look of a modern, liberated woman. Hayes appears to

be surprised at the interior of the house.

Franklin puts a hand on Hayes' shoulder as they,go off down

the hall.

INT. DINING ROOM - DAY

Chance still watches TV, waits for Louise to serve him.

Franklin and Hayes appear in the doorway of the dining room.

They are both surprised to see Chance.

Chance remains seated, takes Franklin's hand warmly in both

of his like the President did on TV.

Hayes moves to shake Chance's hand.

Chance turns back to the TV and Hayes and Franklin exchange

looks.

Another period of silence. Franklin and Hayes seem perplexed.

Franklin steps to the TV, turns it off.

Franklin and Hayes exchange looks.

INT. TOWNHOUSE - REAR ENTRANCE/HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

Chance puts on his snow-boots as Franklin and Hayes continue

their questioning.

Chance picks up his slippers and leads the attorneys outside.

EXT. GARDEN - AFTERNOON

Chance describes his garden with pride as they walk toward

the rear building.

They arrive at the rear building and Chance opens the door to

the garage. Franklin and Hayes follow him inside.

INT. GARAGE - AFTERNOON

Franklin and Hayes are taken aback by the touring car.

Chance is silent for a moment, he blushes slightly.

Chance moves toward his room, Franklin and Hayes follow.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

Chance sits on the bed to remove his boots as Hayes and

Franklin inspect the room.

Chance puts on his slippers, crosses to the closet, opens the

door. It is filled with men's wear.

Chance turns to watch TV. Franklin takes Hayes to a side of

the room.

Franklin takes out some papers, approaches Chance.

Franklin hands the release to Chance but Chance does not take

it.

Chance watches as they leave, then puts Franklin's card on a

desk without ever looking at it and turns to stare at

television.

INT. TOWNHOUSE - ATTIC - AFTERNOON

A large attic filled with the Old Man's possessions of the

past. Chance enters, turns on an old black-and-white TV with

a magnifying lens attached to the front. As it plays, he

selects a fine leather suitcase from several, takes a hand

made suit from a long rack.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

The TV is on as Chance packs his belongings.

EXT. GARDEN - AFTERNOON

Chance, very nicely dressed, comes out of the rear building

carrying his suitcase. He stops on occasion to inspect his

garden as he walks toward the townhouse.

INT. TOWNHOUSE - FRONT HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

Chance is reluctant to open the front door. After some

hesitation, he gathers up his courage, opens it and steps

outside, closing the door behind him.

EXT. FRONT OF TOWNHOUSE - AFTERNOON

Chance stops short on the front steps; the townhouse is

situated in a decaying ghetto.

The snow is a dirty grey, houses adjoining have their windows

shattered, are smeared with grafitti. Chance tries to return

to the safety of the townhouse, but the door is locked. He

stands on the steps for a moment, then moves to the trash

laden sidewalk. He stops, ponders which way to go, finally

makes up his mind and moves off to his left.

EXT. GHETTO STREET - AFTERNOON

The buildings are crumbling, rusted out cars line the street.

A group of Black people huddle together in threadbare stuffed

furniture on the sidewalk, a fire burning between them for

warmth. Chance rounds the corner, walks up to them. He stands

by them, smiles. They stare back, no sign of friendship in

their faces. Chance nods politely to them, then walks away

down the sidewalk.

EXT. GHETTO STREET - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON

A group of eight to ten hard-core ghetto youths hang out on a

corner. Other passersby give them a wide berth, they are

unapproachable. Chance nears the group, approaches.

They turn to him as one, silent, amazed that this White

trespasser would intrude on their jiving.

One of the Black youths, LOLO, interrupts Chance.

The leader of the gang, ABBAZ, shuts up Lolo with an elbow

and moves menacingly forward.

Chance smiles at Abbaz and reaches into his pocket.

Chance points the changer at Abbaz and clicks it three times,

tries to change the picture. Abbaz immediately pulls out a

switchblade, whips the blade open.

Chance, disappointed that the changer did not work, returns

it to his pocket.

Abbaz, Lolo and the gang watch him go, then begin to buzz

with excitement: "Who the fuck died?" "Why'd he pull that

changer on us, man?" "The Old Man died, must be Papa Joe!"

"He's some weird honkie, man."

EXT. CHINATOWN - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON

A Bulletin board affixed to a storefront in Chinatown. Chance

gazes at the notes pinned to it, written in Chinese. Smiling,

he turns from it, walks on through the area.

EXT. PORNO AREA - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON

A street lined with adult book stores, X-rated movies and

strip joints. An elderly Black woman approaches carrying a

bag of groceries. Chance steps in front of the woman, stops

her.

The woman looks up to Chance, becomes very frightened. She

turns and half-runs into a sleazy bar for safety. Chance

watches after her for a moment, then continues along.

EXT. PARK - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON

Chance stands looking through a chain-link fence watching

some teenage boys playing basketball. He bangs on the fence,

calls to them.

The boys ignore him, Chance walks away.

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON

Chance walks down the center meridian of a divided street. He

seems oblivious to the automobiles passing on either side. In

the background can be seen the Washington Monument.

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON

Chance seems stumped on which way to go. He looks up one

street, then the other, has no idea where they lead. He

turns, looks behind him and sees a large statue of Benito

Juarez pointing. Chance smiles and goes off in the direction

that Benito points.

EXT. REAR OF THE WHITE HOUSE - DUSK

Tourists are gathered around gaping through the fence at the

White House.

Chance is turned the other way, inspecting the branches of a

dying tree. Chance moves to a POLICEMAN standing nearby.

The Policeman looks at the tree, then at Chance, figures a

man dressed that well must be important.

The Policeman takes out his walkie-talkie as Chance walks

away.

EXT. BUSINESS DISTRICT - EVENING

A fashionable area. Expensive shops, well-kept streets and

sidewalks. A television store has caught Chance's eye. He

stands by the display window, looks in at a dozen or so color

TVs, all turned on, playing various channels. A video camera

points outward from a corner of the window and is focused on

the sidewalk to allow potential customers to see themselves

live on an Advent TV. Chance is intrigued by his own image.

He poses, lifts one arm, then the other to make sure that it

is really him on television. He moves forward, smiles, then

moves slowly backward, notices himself become smaller on the

screen. He steps back off the curb, frowns as his likeness

disappears from frame on the Advent. Standing between two

parked cars, Chance takes out his remote control, clicks it

at the Advent. Four or five other sets in the window change

channels, but he does not reappear on the giant screen. As he

does this, the car to his,left, a large, American-made

limousine, backs up. The car bumps Chance, pins him against

the car to his right. Chance cries out in pain, drops his

suitcase, his changer, and bangs his hand on the trunk of the

limo. The chauffeur, DAVID, and the liveryman, JEFFREY,

immediately jump from the car, run back to Chance.

David and Jeffrey reach out to help, but Chance is wedged

solidly between the two cars.

David pulls the car forward, freeing Chance. A few bystanders

begin to gather as Jeffrey helps Chance to the sidewalk.

David gets out of the car, comes back.

A BYSTANDER interrupts.

During this, the rear door of the limo opens and EVE RAND

steps out. Eve is in her late thirties, has the look of a

traditional New England lady. She watches as Jeffrey tends to

Chance.

Chance bends, raises his trouser leg. A red-bluish swollen

bruise, three inches in diameter, is forming on his calf.

Eve moves closer to Chance, looks at the bruise.

Eve turns to get back into the limo. David goes with her to

hold the door.

Chance is hesitant about getting in the car. Jeffrey offers a

helping hand.

Jeffrey assists Chance into the rear seat of the limo.

Jeffrey closes the door, goes back to pick up Chance's

suitcase, does not notice the remote control. As Jeffrey puts

Chance's bag into the trunk, we see the personalized license

plate "RAND l."

INT. LIMOUSINE - EVENING

Chance and Eve settle in the back seat. As they talk, David

starts up the limo, Jeffrey joins him in front and the limo

pulls out into traffic.

Eve presses a button, the glass partition closes. As the

window rolls up behind him, Jeffrey dials the limo telephone.

There is a moment of silence. Eve, still a bit on edge from

the accident and feeling a bit uncomfortable with a stranger

in the car, presses another button. The limo's bar moves out,

revealing a row of decanters and glasses.

As Eve pours cognac into a monogrammed crystal glass, Chance

notices the limo's TV set.

She hands Chance the cognac, turns on the TV.

Chance takes a sip of the cognac, is not accustomed to

alcohol, coughs. There is another moment of silence.

Chance reaches out to change the channel on the TV, suddenly

realizes he doesn't have his remote control. He starts going

through his pockets, searches for it.

Another pause, Chance reaches out, changes channels on TV.

Chance watches the news. Eve sips on her cognac as David

eases the limo out of the city of Washington.

EXT. HIGHWAY - WOODED AREA - NIGHT

The limo approaches, then turns into the entrance-way of the

Rand Estate. Two guards stand on either side of the open

gate, salute as the car passes through.

EXT. RAND DRIVE - NIGHT

The drive runs alongside a stream, then turns and crosses a

large meadow. The limousine passes, still no sign of the

house. It is a very, very long driveway.

INT. LIMOUSINE - NIGHT

Chance is glued to the TV, switches channels, again watches

the news. Eve takes his fascination with television as a sign

of intelligence.

Chance nods, changes the channel, watches a Mighty Mouse

cartoon. Eve looks at him perplexed, then takes it for a joke

and smiles.

EXT. RAND MANSION - NIGHT

Two uniformed valets, WILSON and PERKINS, await the

limousines by the front door of the Rand mansion. Wilson

stands behind a wheelchair. As the limo parks, Perkins and

Jeffrey assist Chance into the chair. Wilson turns to Eve as

she gets out of the limo.

Perkins and Jeffrey carry Chance in the chair up the steps

and into the house. Eve and Wilson follow.

INT. RAND MANSION - FRONT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Once inside the house, Wilson takes over wheeling Chance. A

lady, GRETA, is waiting to take Eve's coat.

Eve watches as Wilson wheels Chance around a corner.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

The doors open, Wilson pushes Chance into the elevator. As

Wilson pushes a button and the doors close on them, a strange

look comes over Chance's face.

Wilson thinks that Chance is talking about the wheelchair.

Chance looks around the elevator.

Chance again checks out the elevator.

The elevator stops on the third floor.

INT. RAND MANSION - HALLWAY - NIGHT

A hallway adjoining a large, glass-enclosed room. Eve passes

through the hall, enters the room.

INT. BENJAMIN RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Eve enters into a hermetically sealed area, set up with all

the latest hospital emergency gear; oxygen, EKG machine, X

ray machine, transfusion equipment, sterilizers, etc.

BENJAMIN RAND, wearing a silk bathrobe, lies in a king-sized

bed in the center of the room. A nurse, CONSTANCE, is

attending to her duties in the room, looks up as Eve comes

in.

EVE

Good evening, Constance.

Ben Rand perks up as he sees Eve crossing to him. He is in

his sixties, maintains an inner strength and dignity despite

the sapping effects of his illness.

Eve kisses him, holds his hand.

There is silence from Eve. Rand squeezes her hand, turns to

Constance.

Rand pulls Eve's hand close, kisses it.

INT. EAST WING GUEST SUITE - NIGHT

An enormous bedroom, filled with 18th Century antique

furniture. DR. ROBERT ALLENBY dabs Chance's ass with a piece

of cotton soaked in alcohol, prior to an injection. Chance

stands with his pants to the floor, looks to the television

which is not turned on.

Allenby administers the injection, Chance reacts from the

pain.

As Allenby puts a band-aid on Chance's ass, Chance spots a

remote control for the TV on the bedside table. He reaches

out, picks it up.

Chance turns on the TV.

Allenby waits for Chance to say more, he does not. Finally,

Allenby picks up his bag, heads for the door.

Allenby gives him a look, then leaves. Chance watches an old

movie of a man lighting a cigar. The man enjoys the cigar,

blows out smoke. The scene seems to 'sink into' Chance's

mind.

EXT. MANSION - PATIO - NIGHT

Eve sits next to a roaring patio fireplace with a steaming

cup of tea. Allenby comes outside, joins her.

Eve is silent for a moment, looks out to the darkness.

Allenby reaches out, holds Eve's hand.

INT. RAND MANSION - FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

The elevator door opens, Wilson guides Chance in the

wheelchair into the hallway.

Wilson takes this as another joke, chuckles as he wheels

Chance toward Rand's hospital room.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

CONSTANCE and another nurse, TERESA, stand by as Rand is

being given a transfusion. Rand lifts his head as Wilson

wheels Chance into the room.

Wilson pushes Chance to the X-Ray machine, where the

technician, BILLINGS, a Black man, waits. As Wilson and

Billings help Chance onto the X-Ray table, Chance's face

brightens up.

Chance stares at Billings, reacts to him being Black.

Rand looks over as Billings takes the X-Ray.

Chance smiles to Rand.

Rand lays his head back.

INT. RAND DINING ROOM - NIGHT

THURMAND, a waiter, and MARIANNE, a waitress, enter into the

Rand dining room carrying trays of food. The dining room is

immense, a 70-foot ceiling, huge fireplace. Allenby, Eve,

Rand, and Chance (both in wheelchairs) sit around the table.

Rand speaks slowly, with obvious weakness.

Eve turns to Chance.

There is a moment of silence.

Chance looks around the room.

Allenby gives Chance a look.

There is a long pause. Chance looks up, then smiles at Rand.

Another period of silence. The servants bustle around the

room as Allenby studies Chance.

INT. RAND'S POOL ROOM - NIGHT

Allenby opens the door. Rand enters in his electric

wheelchair followed by Chance being pushed by Wilson.

Rand holds out humidor to Chance.

Rand smiles as he takes a cigar for himself.

Rand lights his own cigar, then hands an ornate lighter to

Chance.

Chance, not knowing to bite off the tip, tries to light the

cigar like the man on TV. It will not light.

Allenby watches Chance trying to light the cigar as Rand

speaks on, shooting pool as he talks.

Chance puts the unlit cigar in the ashtray, smiles at

Allenby, then answers Rand.

Allenby laughs as he takes Rand's cigar from him, snuffs it

in the ashtray.

INT. MANSION - ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Wilson stands behind Chance in the wheelchair. Chance glances

slowly and inquisitively around the elevator. When his eyes

meet Wilson's, the valet breaks out in laughter.

The elevator stops, the door opens.

INT. MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

Wilson wheels Chance out of the elevator.

Wilson stops laughing, becomes the stone-faced servant once

again as he notices Eve coming out of her bedroom. Wilson

stops wheeling Chance, stands stiffly at attention as Eve and

Chance talk.

Eve is not prepared for such a question.

Chance smiles at Eve and there is a moment of silence before

Eve steps back into her bedroom.

Eve closes the door. Wilson wheels Chance down the hallway

toward the guest room.

EXT. FRONT OF RAND MANSION - MORNING

Eve comes out of the house, Jeffrey holds the door for her as

she gets into "RAND l." Jeffrey gets in and the limo pulls

away. Chance comes out of the front door, walking with a

limp. His first view of the Rand grounds in the daylight, he

is taken by the extent of the greenery. An attendant, LEWIS,

hurries to Chance.

Lewis goes to his post, picks up a phone. As Chance looks at

the surroundings, Allenby and Wilson, with Chance's

wheelchair, come out of the house.

Wilson pushes the wheelchair to Chance, he sits.

A limousine pulls up to the front of the mansion, waits for

Chance.

Lewis, the attendant, interrupts.

A long look from Allenby, then he looks at his watch.

Wilson begins to push Chance.

Allenby, a bit puzzled, watches as Chance goes into the

house.

INT. RAND MANSION - HALLWAY - MORNING

Chance limps aimlessly through a hallway. He stops, admires a

large tapestry on the wall. A servant, SMYTHE, notices Chance

appears confused, approaches him.

There is another long pause.

Chance follows Smythe down the hall.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

Rand is in an easy chair, dressed for his meeting with the

President. The two nurses are working at the disinfecting

table. Rand smiles as Chance is shown into the room by

Smythe.

The nurses turn, look at Chance.

EXT. FRONT RAND MANSION - MORNING

Wilson is at the head of eight servants lined up on the front

steps. Two black PLYMOUTH SEDANS pull up and park. EIGHT MEN

in grey business suits get out. One of them, WOLTZ, goes

directly to Wilson.

The eight servants pair up with the eight men in suits and go

into the house.

INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - MORNING

Allenby gets off the elevator, stands and thinks for a

moment, then heads off down the hallway in the direction of

Chance's room.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

Chance watches television as Rand speaks.

EXT. FRONT RAND MANSION - MORNING

Two black limousines followed by a station wagon with small

holes in the side pull up in front of the mansion. As men

from the first limousine and the station wagon jump out and

take positions around the driveway, Lewis hurries to his

post, picks up his phone.

INT. RAND MANSION - MRS. AUBREY'S OFFICE - MORNING

The nerve center of the Rand Enterprises since he has become

ill. Four or five desks, all the latest electronic office

equipment, three TV's with video taping facilities, countless

telephones. MRS. AUBREY, Rand's senior secretary, is at her

desk, answers her phone.

Mrs. Aubrey hangs up, picks up another phone, pushes a

button.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

Rand smiles at Chance as the phone rings.

Rand hangs up the phone, turns to Chance with a twinkle in

his eyes.

Teresa brings Rand's wheelchair to him.

Rand walks slowly, clings to the limping Chance tightly as

they leave the room.

EXT. HALLWAY - MORNING

Secret Service Men are seen in the background as Rand stops

outside Mrs. Aubrey's office, leans in.

They shuffle off down the hallway. Chance smiles at the

Secret Service men that they pass.

INT. RAND MANSION - HALLWAY BY LIBRARY - MORNING

Woltz and Wilson wait by the library door. Woltz takes a

small metal detector from his pocket as Rand and Chance

approach.

Wilson knocks lightly, then opens the library door, Rand and

Chance enter.

INT. RAND LIBRARY - MORNING

Rand and Chance come into the Library and the President goes

to Rand with both hands outstretched.

As Rand sinks into the chair, Chance approaches the President

with both hands outstretched.

Chance and the President exchange a two-handed handshake.

Rand, still weak from standing, catches his breath and

introduces Chance.

The President gives Chance a look, then laughs.

Chance perks up at the mention of his name, interrupts.

There is a beat as the President looks at Chance quizzically,

then he continues.

Once again, the President gives Chance a puzzled look.

INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - MORNING

Perkins accompanies Secret Service Agent RIFF as he checks

out the third floor. Riff knocks on each door, looks inside,

then moves in.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - MORNING

Allenby is searching through Chancels clothes looking for

some sort of identification. There is a knock at the door,

Allenby pulls back from the closet as Riff opens the door,

looks inside.

Perkins watches curiously as Riff passes the metal detector

over Allenby's clothing.

INT. LIBRARY - MORNING

The President is worried about what Rand is telling him. He

paces, smokes a cigarette. Chance smiles through it all.

The President now looks nearly as bad as Rand. He sits, turns

to Chance.

The President puts out his cigarette, rises.

Chance rises and shakes the President's hand.

The President clasps Rand's hand.

The President leaves the library and Chance sits back down.

EXT. RAND MANSION - MORNING

An aide, KAUFMAN, waits by the front door of the Rand

mansion. As the President comes out, he speaks quietly to

Kaufman.

They head toward the waiting limousines.

INT. RAND MANSION - HALLWAY - MORNING

Rand has an arm around Chance, hangs on for dear life as the

two of them walk through the hall. Behind them, Wilson and

Perkins push empty wheelchairs.

Wilson and Perkins leave the wheelchairs, assist Rand into

his hospital room.

The door closes, Chance limps off down the hall.

EXT. RAND MANSION - GARDEN - DAY

Chance, with a limp, walks down a pathway in the garden,

admires the greenery. In the background, coming from the

house, we see Eve.

They walk along in silence for a moment. Chance sees a huge

greenhouse not far from them, heads toward it. Eve turns to

him, hesitates, then questions.

Eve takes his uncertainty as a reluctance to discuss the Old

Man.

Eve edges slightly closer to Chance. Chance edges slightly

closer to the greenhouse, is fascinated by it.

Chance peeks through one of the windows.

INT. RAND'S BEDROOM - DAY

Rand is in bed. Eve, Chance and Allenby are seated around

him, the two nurses standing to one side. They all watch the

President's address to the Financial Institute on TV. Chance

inhales deeply, enjoys the oxygen in the room. Rand is

looking weaker. Every so often, Allenby casts a concerned

glance his way.

Rand perks up a bit at this mention. Allenby manages a smile,

once again looks at Rand, checking his condition. Eve looks

proudly at Chance, who continues to enjoy the oxygen.

Rand starts coughing, breathing heavily. Allenby and the

nurses rush to his bedside. Allenby shoots a quick look to

Eve and Chance.

Eve and Chance leave the room as Allenby administers aid to

Rand.

EXT. RAND MANSION - PATIO - DAY

Eve and Chance sit in silence on the patio. Eve's eyes are

swollen, red, she has been crying. She turns to Chance,

reaches out, touches his hand.

Allenby comes out the door, his mood is serious,

professional. Eve turns quickly, awaits his news.

Mrs. Aubrey comes out of the house.

Chance still does not move. Eve mistakes Chance's not moving

for concern for herself. She puts a hand on his shoulder.

Chance follows Mrs. Aubrey into the house. Eve watches him

go, then turns to Allenby.

INT. RAND MANSION - MRS. AUBREY'S OFFICE - DAY

Mrs. Aubrey leads Chance to a phone at one of the desks. The

three television sets are on, attract Chance's attention.

INT. WASHINGTON POST - COURTNEY'S OFFICE - DAY

SID COURTNEY, a Black man in his fifties, wears a rumpled

wool jacket, smokes a pipe.

INTERCUT - MRS. AUBREY'S OFFICE / COURTNEY'S OFFICE

Courtney doesn't understand but continues his questioning.

Chance hangs up the phone, watches the TVs.

Courtney listens to the dial tone, then puts the receiver

down.

INT. RAND MANSION - HALLWAY - DAY

Chance comes out of Mrs. Aubrey's office, notices the service

elevator.

He gets in the elevator.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Chance looks at the row of buttons, presses one. He smiles as

he feels the elevator move.

INT. RAND MANSION - BASEMENT - DAY

One of Mrs. Aubrey's secretaries, JENNIFER, waits with an arm

load of paperwork for the elevator. The door opens, Chance

smiles at her as he steps out.

Jennifer gets in the elevator, the doors Close. Chance looks

around the basement, puzzled. He had expected to be on the

third floor.

INT. MRS. AUBREY'S OFFICE - DAY

Mrs. Aubrey is at her desk, buzzing her inter-house phone. As

Jennifer enters, Mrs. Aubrey hangs up in frustration.

Mrs. Aubrey grabs a notepad, leaves the office.

INT. RAND MANSION - BASEMENT - DAY

Mrs. Aubrey comes out of the service elevator, hurries

through the basement. She checks:

The boiler room.

The electrical room.

The photographer's studio (Eve is sitting for a portrait)

The gym (Allenby is working out)

INT. RAND MANSION - BASEMENT BOWLING ALLEY - DAY

Chance stands in the middle of the two-lane bowling alley,

totally confused. Mrs. Aubrey enters, he smiles at her.

Mrs. Aubrey gives him a look, leaves.

EXT. SKY - DUSK

AIR FORCE 1 passes through the clouds.

INT. AIR FORCE 1 - DUSK

The President sits on a couch in one of the compartments on

the jet. Before him, stand six of his STAFF, Kaufman

included.

As the President goes to the Men's Room, two of the aides

reach for telephones.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - EVENING

Chance wears a velvet bathrobe, watches TV. Perkins lays out

a suit, shirt, tie, etc. on the bed.

There is a knock at the door.

Perkins answers the door, it is Eve.

Eve impulsively steps forward, kisses Chance on the cheek.

Chance smiles at her, and Eve, slightly embarrassed, turns

and leaves the room. Chance sits back down, watches TV as

Perkins attends to his clothes with a whisk broom.

INT. WASHINGTON POST - STAFF ROOM - NIGHT

Courtney heads a meeting of his four staffers. One man,

KINNEY, a research assistant, sits behind a stack of

paperwork, has a downcast expression as he listens to

Courtney.

The room is quiet except for the tapping of Courtney's

pencil.

EXT. TELEVISION STATION - NIGHT

The RAND 1 limousine parks in front of the station. As

Jeffrey opens the door for Chance, MORTON HULL steps to the

limo.

Hull takes Chance into the station.

INT. RAND MANSION - CHANCE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Constance, Rand's nurse, enters Chance's room, goes to the

closet.

INT. TV STATION - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Chance is intrigued by the surroundings as Hull guides him

through the corridor.

Hull takes Chance into the MAKE-UP room.

INT. RAND MANSION - CHANCE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Constance is in the closet, searching through Chance's

pockets, finding nothing. She takes out a small knife, cuts a

label from one of the jackets. Quickly, she examines one of

Chance's shoes, copies the name of the shoemaker in a

notebook. Constance hurries to the dresser, continues her

search.

INT. TV STATION - CORRIDOR/MAKEUP ROOM  NIGHT

COLSON, the makeup man, comes through the corridor carrying a

glass of water. He turns into the makeup room, goes to Chance

who sits in front of the lights. Hull sits next to Chance,

briefs him on the show. Chance has his eyes on a TV monitor,

watches the guest preceding him on "This Evening."

Colson applies finishing touches to Chance.

On the TV, WILLIAM DUPONT, the host, wraps up his talk with

his guest.

Hull leads Chance out of the makeup room. Colson closes the

door, then carefully picks up Chance's water glass, wraps it

in Kleenex, puts it in his overcoat pocket.

INT. TV STATION - "THIS EVENING" STUDIO - NIGHT

William Dupont introduces Chance.

The BAND plays as Chance comes onto the stage. An audience of

about three hundred applauds Chance as he appears. Two TV

cameras move with him as he walks, with a smile and a limp,

to center stage. Dupont shakes Chance's hand, Chance holds

Dupont's hand with both of his own.

Applause and laughter from the audience. Dupont accustomed to

parrying with his guests, asks again.

The audience applauds Chance's apparent metaphor. Dupont

waits for it all to subside, then asks another question.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Rand is in bed. Eve sits in a chair next to the bed, squeezes

Rand's hand in excitement as they both watch Chance on

television. Teresa, the nurse, watches in the background.

INT. WHITE HOUSE - PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The President and First Lady are in bed together watching the

show.

The First Lady cuddles close the President, ruffles his hair,

tries to cheer him up.

INT. TV STUDIO - "THIS EVENING SHOW" - NIGHT

Chance answers.

INT. CIA ROOM - NIGHT

A small, dark room. A videotape machine is running. Also, a

machine is turning that records the harmonics of Chance's

voice. TWO CIA MEN run the equipment, watch as a needle

charts Chance's voice onto paper.

INT. THOMAS FRANKLIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Franklin, the attorney that evicted Chance, comes out of the

bathroom brushing his teeth. His wife, JOHANNA, is in bed

absorbed in "This Evening." Franklin sits on the end of the

bed, watches the show.

More applause from the TV. Franklin leans closer to the set.

INT. PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The President and First Lady continue to watch.

The First Lady moves closer to him.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - NIGHT

The TV, its volume low, plays in the background as Constance,

with a pair of tweezers, plucks a hair from Chance's pillow,

puts it into a small vial.

INT. TV STUDIO - NIGHT

Dupont continues his questions.

At the end of the question, Dupont glances over Chance's

shoulder to look at the monitor.

Chance turns to see what Dupont is looking at, sees the back

of his own head on the TV screen.

Chance is still turned to the monitor.

INT. RAND MANSION - ALLENBY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Allenby watches Chance on television. The camera that covered

Dupont in close-up has now pulled back, includes Dupont and

Chance, both looking into camera. Allenby is concerned, he is

unsure of Chance.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

A group of ELDERLY BLACK PEOPLE sit in the lobby, watch "This

Evening" on an old black-and-white TV.

During the preceding speech, Louise, the maid from the Old

Man's house, chatters.

There is a chorus of "Amens" as she finishes.

INT. TV STUDIO - NIGHT

Chance continues.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Audience applause is heard over TV. Rand claps weakly along

with the TV sound. Eve and Teresa also clap.

Rand looks up as Constance comes into the room.

Constance hurries to Teresa's side. Rand turns to Eve.

INT. TV STUDIO - NIGHT

Dupont asks another question.

INT. PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

More applause over the TV. The President pales.

He rolls over in bed. The First Lady reaches out, puts a

comforting hand on his shoulder.

INT. FRANKLIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Franklin holds a phone to his ear with one hand, shuts off

the TV with the other.

Franklin hangs up the phone, scurries around getting dressed.

His wife, Johanna, sits grimly in bed.

Franklin gives up, hurries from the room.

INT. TV STATION - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Colson, carefully carrying his overcoat, walks with Chance

through the corridor. A delighted Hull walks behind them.

Chance smiles at well-wishers as they continue on through the

corridor.

INT. PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The First Lady is snuggled up close to the President,

caresses his body. After a moment, it becomes clear to her

that he is not up to the occasion.

The First Lady looks at him for a beat, then turns, lies on

her back and stares at the ceiling.

INT. COCKTAIL LOUNGE - NIGHT

An 'in' meeting place for the upper-middle Washington, D.C.

crowd. Thomas Franklin and Sally Hayes sit at a table, drinks

in front of them.

The CAMERA begins to slowly move away from the table, the

sound of Franklin's voice continues.

Franklin's voice fades into the background hubbub. The voice

of Kinney, the research assistant from the Washington Post is

heard as the camera settles on a table occupied by Sidney

Courtney and his staff.

Kinney stands, shoves his paperwork across the table.

Kinney takes his drink with him as he leaves the lounge.

EXT. RAND MANSION - NIGHT

The household staff is lined up on the front steps,

applauding Chance as he steps from the limousine. Chance

accepts the plaudit, though does not understand the reason.

As he nears the steps, Perkins and Wilson step forward.

Perkins nods, takes Chance's overcoat, allows everyone to

enter the house ahead of him. Alone on the steps, Perkins

quickly searches through the pockets of the coat, finds

nothing.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Rand is in bed. Eve sits on the edge, looks warmly to Chance

who stands nearby.

Allenby prepares an injection for Rand, and occasionally

glances curiously at Chance. Chance breathes deeply, enjoys

the oxygen.

Allenby crosses to Rand, needle in hand.

Eve and Chance quietly leave the room. Allenby watches Chance

go, then readies Rand for the injection.

INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

The elevator door opens, Eve and Chance come into the

hallway. Chance looks back at the elevator for a beat, then

the two walk quietly down the hall.

Eve gives Chance a long look, then kisses him on the lips.

She steps back, smiles.

Eve goes into her bedroom, closes the door. Chance heads for

his room as though nothing had happened.

INT. WHITE HOUSE - OVAL OFFICE ANTE ROOM - MORNING

Kaufman and the five other Aides nervously await the

President's arrival. The door opens, the President briskly

enters the room.

The President leads the way into the Oval Office.

INT. OVAL OFFICE - MORNING

As the President goes to his desk, Kaufman hands him a

folder. The President sits, reads it quickly, it is very

brief.

Kaufman takes a clipboard from the man at his right.

The President stares at Kaufman for a beat, then speaks into

his intercom.

A quick "Yes sir" from Miss Davis over the intercom. The

President leans back in his swivel chair, looks at Kaufman.

The Aides quickly leave the office.

INT. CHANCE'S ROOM - MORNING

Chance is in bed, a bed tray on his lap, eating breakfast. A

pile of the morning's newspapers lies at the foot of the bed,

untouched. The TV is playing, Chance watches as he eats.

There is a knock at the door.

Eve enters, wearing a robe over her nightgown.

Eve smiles, moves a little closer to Chance.

Eve suddenly begins to cry, sobbing quietly at first, then

losing control, the tears flowing freely. To comfort her,

Chance puts his arm around her shoulder, nearly tipping his

breakfast tray. Eve responds to his touch, draws closer,

holds Chance tightly. Chance does his best to avoid spilling

his breakfast, keep an eye on the TV, and to comfort Eve. She

gives in to her desires, begins to caress Chance, running her

hand over his body. She kisses him, his eyes, his neck, his

lips, his ears. Chance does not return the lovemaking, and

Eve eventually catches hold of herself, stops. She lies

quietly beside Chance for a time, regains her demeanor, then

speaks.

Eve cannot bring herself to finish the sentence. She rises,

straightens her robe and moves toward the door.

A knock at the door startles Eve. She turns, opens it to

MAGGIE, the seam tress. Maggie carries one of Rand's tuxedos.

Eve leaves. Maggie stands by patiently as Chance eats his

once-warm scrambled eggs and watches"Mr. Rogers Neighborhood"

on TV.

INT. RAND MANSION - ALLENBY'S ROOM - DAY

Allenby is at his desk, searching through the Washington,

D.C. telephone book. He finds a number, dials.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DUSK

Teresa and Constance work in a corner of the room. Rand is in

bed, very still, deep in thought.

EXT. SOPHIE'S - EVENING

The RAND 1 limousine pulls up to Sophie's house. Jeffrey

opens the door for Eve and Chance. He wears Ben's tuxedo, Eve

is in a formal gown. The press is waiting, a couple of

reporters, 5 photographers and a mini-cam crew from local TV

station gather around Eve and Chance.

There is a moment of silence as the reporters digest this.

The TV Reporter smiles, questions Chance.

Eve and Chance walk toward the front door, leaving the

newsmen to talk among themselves.

The front door is opened for them by an attendant.

INT. SOPHIE'S - EVENING

The Black Tie reception is in progress. The house is crowded,

possibly a hundred guests, mostly foreign ambassadors and

other such dignitaries. Eve and Chance enter, are greeted by

DENNIS WATSON, a State Department official.

SOPHIE, an older woman bedecked with jewelry, approaches,

embraces Eve.

Sophie steps back, looks at Chance.

Sophie pulls them both into the party, leaving Dennis looking

after Chance as he walks away.

They disappear into the crowd.

INT. WHITE HOUSE - OVAL OFFICE - NIGHT

The President is hunched over his desk, absorbed in

constructing a model airplane, a World War II flying fortress

bomber. The First Lady sits nearby, plays solitaire on a

small table. The President glances to her, then back to his

work.

A KNOCK at the door interrupts the President.

Kaufman enters.

The President nods, Kaufman leaves. The President puts some

more glue on the wing.

INT. SOPHIE'S - NIGHT

Sophie pulls Eve and Chance to AMBASSADOR SKRAPINOV and his

WIFE. Skrapinov smiles as he sees Eve.

Skrapinov kisses Eve's hand.

Mrs. Skrapinov returns the nod as Sophie introduces Chance.

Chance warmly shakes Skrapinov's hand with both of his own.

Chance smiles at Mrs. Skrapinov as The Ambassador puts an arm

around him.

Eve and Sophie leave. Skrapinov leads his wife and Chance to

their table.

Chance sits between Skrapinov and Mrs. Skrapinov.

Skrapinov pauses, then leans close to Chance, speaks softly

in Russian. Chance, having never heard this language, raises

his eyebrows and laughs. Mrs. Skrapinov remains impassive.

As he speaks in Russian, Eve comes to the table, taps

Skrapinov on the shoulder.

As Eve and Chance leave, Skrapinov turns and nods to a MAN

standing a short distance away. The man, KARPATOV, hurries to

the table.

Mrs. Skrapinov strains to overhear the conversation.

Karpatov leaves the table.

INT. WASHINGTON, D.C. COCKTAIL LOUNGE - NIGHT

The same lounge as before. Sidney Courtney sits at the same

table as earlier, only this time with the editor of the

Washington Post, LYMAN STUART. Courtney puffs on his pipe as

he speaks.

The CAMERA begins to slowly MOVE AWAY from their table.

The SOUND of Stuart's voice dissolves into Thomas Franklin's

as the CAMERA SETTLES on Dr. Allenby and Franklin sitting at

a table nearby.

Allenby rises, leaves the bar.

INT. SOPHIE'S HOUSE - DINNER PARTY - NIGHT

Eve and Sophie are talking to a small group. Chance moves

away to get an hors d'oeuvre and is approached by RONALD

STIEGLER, a publisher.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Rand is in bed. Sitting nearby are two attorneys, MONROE and

TOWNSEND. Mrs. Aubrey stands to one side and Constance and

Teresa prepare an IV for Rand.

Allenby enters the room, stands by the door, unnoticed.

Allenby silently leaves the room.

INT. SOPHIE'S HOUSE - DINNER PARTY - NIGHT

Dennis Watson, of the State Department, talks with Chance in

a corner of the living room. Dennis whispers something into

Chance's ear and Chance gives him an innocent smile. Dennis

is encouraged by the smile.

Dennis leads Chance out of the crowded room.

INT. WHITE HOUSE - PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A light from the adjoining bathroom filters into the darkened

bedroom. The President and the First Lady are in bed. They

each lie on their backs, a distance apart and are silent.

The inter-White House phone rings, the President reaches for

it.

The President hangs up the phone as the First Lady stares at

the ceiling.

INT. SOPHIE'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS ROOM - NIGHT

A small room exquisitely decorated in pale lilac tapestry.

The lights are very dim, and Dennis, who we cannot see, is

lying on the floor. Dennis' clothes are draped over a chair.

Chance sees a very small pocket television on a desk. He

turns the TV on.

Chance reacts to the change in tone of Dennis' voice, turns

to look at him on the floor. Hearing the groans and heavy

breathing, Chance thinks Dennis is ill.

Dennis reaches out with his free hand, grabs Chance's foot,

pulls it to himself.

Chance watches as Dennis goes through some spasms, then his

body relaxes. Chance is concerned for Dennis' health.

We hear a contented sigh from the man on the floor.

EXT. SOPHIE'S - NIGHT

A long, black limousine with a Red Star on the door pulls

away from Sophie's house.

INT. RED STAR LIMOUSINE - NIGHT

ALEXIS NOVOGROD, a high-ranking KGB officer, and two of his

underlings are in the limousine, along with Skrapinov, his

wife and Karpatov. Novogrod and his men wear heavy clothing,

fresh from Moscow. They all drink vodka.

(Dialogue in Russian, English subtitles)

They all raise their glasses.

The men and Mrs. Skrapinov drink their vodkas.

INT. SOPHIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The reception is breaking up. Eve, wearing her coat, searches

for Chance in the crowd. She sees him, taps him on the

shoulder from behind.

Eve and Chance leave the reception.

INT. WHITE HOUSE - OVAL OFFICE - NIGHT

The President sits behind his desk in a bathrobe, his hair

mussed. Standing before him are GROVER HONEYCUTT, the

Director of the F.B.I., and CLIFFORD BALDWIN, C.I.A. Chief.

Kaufman stands to one side. All are red-eyed, tired, and

frustrated.

There is silence in the room. A couple of looks, but silence.

The President leaves the Oval Office.

INT. RAND MANSION - THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

Eve and Chance walk down the hallway.

Chance enters, Eve closes the door behind them.

INT. EVE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Eve turns on a soft lamp, Chance goes directly to her TV,

turns it on.

As she talks, Chance watches a love scene on TV. The hero

gives his lady a passionate kiss and embrace. The scene seems

to 'sink into' Chance's mind. He abruptly turns, takes Eve

into his arms and kisses her full on the mouth. Just as

abruptly, he turns away and changes channels on TV.

She takes Chance in her arms, kisses him wildly. They fall to

her bed in an embrace. As she holds him, kisses him, runs her

hands over his body, Chance watches television, neither

resists nor responds to Eve's caresses. Suddenly she stops,

lets her head fall on Chance's chest.

Chance sits up on the bed, then, feeling her sadness, gently

strokes her hair as he looks at TV.

Eve slowly gets up from the bed, nervously paces the bedroom

as Chance watches TV. She makes a decision, moves to Chance,

kisses him.

She steps back, slips off her dress. She does not undress any

further, instead, leans close to Chance.

She smiles, gets in bed and pulls the covers over herself.

Chance divides his attention between Eve and the TV, watching

both with an equal detachment. Eve begins to respond to her

own touch, finds a heretofore undiscovered pleasure with her

own body. Chance changes the channel as she reaches orgasm.

As Eve's body trembles, Chance yawns, gets up from the bed.

A low purr is heard from Eve as Chance leaves.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

Allenby, Constance and Teresa are readying a transfusion for

Rand. There is a feeling of urgency as they work.

Rand, very weak, strains to speak to Allenby.

Teresa is about to swab Rand's arm with alcohol but he pulls

away.

Teresa looks to Allenby, he nods to her. Teresa puts the

cotton down, leaves the room.

EXT. RAND MANSION - PATIO - MORNING

A light snow is failing. Eve is in a fur coat, holds a

steaming cup of coffee. Chance stands next to her, an

umbrella in one hand. He holds his other arm out, catching

the snowflakes as they fall.

Chance turns to her, says nothing, presses the cold

snowflakes to his face.

Teresa appears in the doorway.

Chance gives Eve a warm smile, then follows Teresa into the

house.

INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

Allenby, with nothing more he can do to prolong Rand's life,

sits on the bed close to him, grips his hand tightly. Teresa

shows Chance into the room and Allenby motions to the nurses

to leave. As they do, Chance, once again breathing the oxygen

with a smile, goes to Rand's bedside.

Allenby winces.

Rand slumps down, dead. Allenby checks his pulse, turns to

Chance.

Chance reaches out, uncovers Rand's face, gently touches the

man's forehead, feels the coldness. Allenby eyes him as

Chance stays with Rand for a moment, then replaces the sheet.

Chance leaves the bedroom. Allenby watches him go, then sits

back in a chair, his head spinning.

EXT. RAND MANSION - DAY

A cloudy, cold day patches of snow are on the ground. The

Rand servants are lined up in front of the mansion, listen to

funeral services for Rand on a pair of loudspeakers. PAN

AROUND, reveal the services being held on a hill overlooking

the mansion. Fifty mourners are gathered around the Rand

family mausoleum. Chance stands with Eve and Allenby. The

President of the United States stands before a microphone.

As the President speaks, Chance turns and walks away. Eve and

Allenby watch as he goes into the trees surrounding the area.

INT. LARGE AUDITORIUM - DAY

Ah auditorium with row upon row of empty seats. Huddled

together at one end of the hall are six important

businessmen, speaking in hushed tones. JAMES DUDLEY, a

powerful industrialist, speaks.

SEWELL NELSON, a corporation chairman, joins in.

Another executive, PETER CALDWELL, agrees.

CHARLIE BOB BENNET, a Texas oil millionaire;

LYMAN MURRAY, a banker;

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Chance, his umbrella under his arm, walks through the woods.

EXT. RAND'S FUNERAL - DAY

The services are over. Eve, Allenby talk with the President

and the First Lady.

The President and First Lady head toward their limousine.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Chance walks deeper into the woods, absorbed in the greenery.

He stops by a tree, brushes some snow from a branch, moves

on.

EXT. RAND'S FUNERAL - DAY

The majority of mourners have left. Eve and Allenby walk

slowly to the RAND 1 limousine, look around for Chance.

Eve keeps looking as they walk to the limousine.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Chance happens on a tree with a cracked limb, hanging to the

ground. He stops, inspects the break, runs his fingers along

the split in the bark. He looks to the ground, notices that

an end of the limb has fallen on a seedling, bending it

double. Chance pulls the limb away, then kneels beside the

seedling. He removes an expensive paid of suede gloves, and,

with gentle fingers, brushes the dirt and snow away from the

seedling. Chance glances up to the remaining limbs of the

larger tree which could fall and threaten the emerging tree.

He unfolds his umbrella, places it over the seedling in a way

to give it protection, yet to still allow it to receive light

from the winter sun. Chance stands, puts his gloves back on

and continues his walk, disappearing into a remote section of

the woods.

EXT. RAND'S FUNERAL - DAY

Jeffrey stands holding the door for Eve and Allenby, all the

other cars have gone. Eve is worried, gets into the car.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Chance walks through the woods, his pace faster than before.

EXT. RAND'S FUNERAL - DAY

The limousine still waits for Chance.

INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY

Eve is deeply concerned for Chance.

David starts up the limousine.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Chance walks with determination through the woods.

INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY

Allenby and Eve search for Chance as David drives along a

narrow road through the woods. Jeffrey, sitting in front,

suddenly calls out.

About 100 yards ahead of them, Chance crosses the road,

continues on down a hill.

David stops the limousine at the point where Chance crossed.

Eve hurries out of the car.

EXT. SIDE OF ROAD - DAY

Chance is about twenty yards down the side of a hill. Eve

calls to him.

Eve runs, half falls as she goes down the hill.

She gets to him, holds him tightly.

She hugs him one more time, then she leads him back up the

hill to the waiting limousine. Allenby gets out of the car,

greets Chance with a handshake and an arm around the

shoulder. Then the three get into the limousine.

