BLACK SCREEN

INT. YESHIVA CLASSROOM -- DAY

A run-down place. A dozen 12-year-old BOYS sit at old-

fashioned desks. These are not Hasidim, but Orthodox Jews:

normal American kids in yarmulkes. The teacher, RAV

ZINGESSER is young, overweight, acnescarred, good-humored.

Two boys off to one side: AVI (a smart, tough, brownnose)

and DANNY (the eternal dissident) argue under their breath....

TITTERS. Danny looks around at his classmates: nerds,

wankers, nose-pickers. Two kids in back furtively read the

racing form under their desks. He hates them for their

indifference as much as he despises Stuart's piety or Avi's

ass-kissing.

The kids laugh. Zingesser CRACKS a ruler against a desk.

Oooo. CRACK, CRACK, CRACK. Even the guys with the sports

pages are shocked by that one.

The ruler has been CRACKING from "power-drunk" on.... Now

Zingesser grabs Danny, yanks him out of his chair.

Avi rises, grinning, as...Danny struggles wildly to get free.

The class sits frozen in terror, waiting for God to kill

Danny. But nothing happens.

INT. YESHIVA STAIRWELL -- NIGHT

Danny runs down the steps alone.

EXT. RUN-DOWN COMMERCIAL AREA -- TWILIGHT

Danny walking home alone. He sees TWO KIDS (older, tougher,

blonder) coming toward him. He slips off his yarmulke and

slants across the street. The kids slant that way. He hears

a RUMBLING, looks up at an ELEVATED TRAIN entering a station.

He runs up the steps toward the SHRIEKING train....

INT. 7 TRAIN -- 1998 -- DAY

TITLE: 13 YEARS LATER

The train passes above used car lots, discount furniture

stores, residential side streets...finally pulls into a

station. The doors open. People file on, the CAMERA letting

them go by until it spots a tall, thin COLLEGE STUDENT in a

YARMULKE. Danny grown up?

PAN with him as he sits, opens an organic chemistry text. The

doors close. The train starts up, but the Jewish boy hardly

notices; he is already reading. He sways with the motion of

the car, half-hidden by other passengers. We realize he is

being watched.

REVERSE ANGLE: another YOUNG MAN, standing -- a "SUEDE-HEAD"

(his hair cut so short it's like a fine fabric).

SUEDE-HEAD'S POV: THE JEWISH BOY pushes his glasses back up

his nose, wipes the nose with a handkerchief, puts the

handkerchief away, and all the time his eyes have not left

the page. Suede-head steps between passengers and stands

directly over the Jewish boy. He looks down at the yarmulke

pinned to the stiff, wavy hair, at the oversized shirt

collar, scrawny neck, prominent Adam's apple, pimples,

dandruff, ingrown facial hair...

He steps closer, crowding the boy's knees. The boy shifts a

little without looking up. Subtly but relentlessly, Suede-

head pursues him along the bench until, unable to slide

farther, the boy flattens his legs against the seat. Suede-

head presses into the boy's knees.

The boy accidentally bumps a BUSINESSMAN to Suede-head's

left. The man (late 30s, Wall Street Journal, African-

American) looks from the boy to Suede-head and understands

at once what is going on.

Suede-head stares right back -- and the BUSINESSMAN returns

to his paper. Suede-head eases him aside and steps on the

boy's shoe.

SHOES -- A HEAVY BLACK BOOT PINS A BROWN WINGTIP TO THE FLOOR

The wingtip wiggles back and forth, finally working free.

The boy still hasn't looked up.

SUEDE-HEAD & THE JEWISH BOY

swaying, locked in a strange, silent intimacy. Suede-head

forces the boy into ever more contorted postures,

increasingly ridiculous denials of what is happening. And

the boy not only never stops reading the chemistry text, he

keeps highlighting relevant passages.

The train slows. The boy closes the book, caps the

highlighter, gathers his things and manages to stand up,

wriggling awkwardly around Suede-head. The doors open, he

gets off.

INT. STATION -- DAY

Looking up a long escalator, the Jewish boy riding down

toward us.

Suede-head arrives on the run at the top, races down a

flight of stairs, vaults the bannister, slides down a metal

slope....

Lands on his feet and comes to stand at the foot of the

escalator.

The boy rides inexorably down. At the bottom, he tries to go

around Suede-head who blocks this way, then another, driving

him into a corner.

The boy realizes he has nowhere to go -- finally turns to

face his tormentor. Their eyes meet for the first time. He

is actually bigger than Suede-head, but not nearly as strong.

He won't fight, is simply acknowledging what he can no

longer deny. There is even an odd relief that disgusts

Suede-head more than all the rest.

He slaps him in the face. He stumbles backward. As Suede-

head goes to hit him again, the boy holds his books in front

of him. Suede-head punches the books straight into his face.

The boy falls, curls into a fetal position. Suede-head kicks

him....

He won't budge. Suede-head punches him repeatedly until he

hears VOICES approaching. He runs back up the stairs to the

train and only as we FOLLOW him do we realize that he is our

protagonist. This is Danny grown up.

INT. DANNY'S STUDIO APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Like his brain, the room is at once crowded and tidy and has,

so far as we can see, neither windows nor doors. Shelves of

books, CDs, magazines, videotapes loom over a neatly made bed.

Danny, in briefs and boots, is lifting weights. The phone

rings. A machine picks up: no outgoing message, only a BEEP.

Then:

He keeps doing curls.

She hangs up. A moment later Danny finishes the set, gasping

for air, heart pounding, muscles throbbing.

INT. SAME -- NIGHT

A radio is playing the news. Danny sits at a small desk, on

the phone and browsing the Internet, a take-out menu beside him.

Over this we see: COMPUTER SCREEN: GLIMPSES OF PASSING PHRASES:

...ZIONIST OCCUPATIONAL GOV'T CONTROLS 78% OF THE SENATE, 62%

OF THE HOUSE...DYNAMITE CAN BE STOLEN FROM CONSTRUCTION

SITES & ROAD CREWS, PARTICULARLY IN MOUNTAINOUS AREAS...

CURTIS ZAMPF IN NYC 5/18...JEWISH PIMPS, DRUG DLRS &

ABORTIONISTS HAVE AS THEIR MAIN GOAL...CONVERTING THE GLOCK

901 TO FULLY AUTOMATIC IS RELATIVELY SIMPLE. FIRST, REMOVE

THE FIRING PIN...

He HIGHLIGHTS the item about Curtis Zampf...

EXT. VOMPADINK -- TWILIGHT

A tough working-class Queens bar.

INT. VOMPADINK -- TWILIGHT

Men drink in clusters, including a group of skinheads....

Danny takes a place alone at the bar, drawing furtive

attention from the regulars. When the BARTENDER finally

comes over...

A strange call for this place. As he waits, Danny turns and

watches the skinheads enough to make them aware of him.

The girls watch him, too. The skins don't like that. One of

them (Billings) seems ready to do something about it. The

others try to calm him, and when they look back, Danny has

left. He barely touched the drink.

The skins are puzzled, but one indicates his watch: time to

go. They gather their stuff....

EXT. CITY/INT. 7 TRAIN -- EVENING

Looking out the front of the train as it rushes toward

Manhattan. A dramatic sky rises above the skyline.

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

The three skins -- O.L., CARLETON, BILLINGS -- walk up an

East Side street. Billings is telling a story....

During this, O.L. starts to SPRAY PAINT a crude SWASTIKA

onto a BUS KIOSK. A VOICE startles them....

They jump, turn. Danny steps out of the shadows.

Danny's will is stronger; O.L. hands over the spray can.

Danny shakes it, critiques O.L.'s rendering....

They exchange looks: how did he know about Curtis?

INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Grand but threadbare. The skins enter: O.L. like a child,

Carleton like a sardonic adolescent, Billings like a

revolutionary, Danny like an uncrowned prince.

CURTIS ZAMPF is addressing a dozen or so guests. He is 40

but appears younger; with rough good looks, longish hair and

a leather jacket, he seems more like an aging rock star or

sexy novelist that a standard-issue American Nazi.

He does the Boston Irish accent so well, everybody laughs.

Up front we notice the only WOMAN in the room. She is in her

40s, regal, beautiful, forbidding. Her name is LINA MOEBIUS.

The crowd -- nonunion electricians, white taxi drivers,

unemployed bookkeepers, failed academics, off-duty cops --

listens quietly.

During this, a young woman (CARLA) appears from the rear of

the apartment, heading for the kitchen with a coffee cup and

a history book. She glances into the living room.

Silence. Danny -- who has spotted Carla -- begins to clap, a

few others join in. Danny raises his hand; Curtis nods to

him....

Everyone -- including Carla -- turns to see who asked that.

The crowd seems impressed, but restless and bored.

A stirring: many share the concern. Lina watches closely.

Murmurs of surprise, disappointment.

The magic word. The whole room comes alive. Zampf grimaces.

That stops the conversation. But Carla is intrigued; here is

someone whose mind moves in strange and interesting realms.

The questioner is a young man (GUY DANIELSEN), better spoken

than the others. Danny feels all eyes on him.

A tremor of fear and excitement ripples through the room.

Zampf glances at Mrs. Moebius; she is watching Danny intently.

Mutterings: "Who's she?" "Yeah, her..." But Danny says:

The crowd feels a deep atavistic thrill. Zampf glances at

Mrs. Moebius....

The room is stunned to silence. Mrs. Moebius signals Curtis.

INT. SAME -- FIVE MINUTES LATER

Danny -- flushed with triumph -- stands looking down at the

city.

ACROSS THE ROOM -- MRS. MOEBIUS & CURTIS ZAMPF

She looks over at Danny, now chatting with Carla....

ON DANNY & CARLA

He turns. She's beckoning to him. He gives Carla a look,

then crosses to her, sitting in a chair she indicates.

Curtis offers him a drink; he declines. Carla takes one.

Smiles, laughter. Everyone seems to relax.

Carla watches, silent. Danny is aware of both mother and

daughter.

Lina stands, takes a sherry. Everyone else rises with her.

As Curtis leads him toward the door, Danny looks around for

Carla, hears WOMEN'S VOICES arguing in German. Frustrated,

he goes down the stairs....

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

Danny and the other skins walking down the middle of the

street, drinking beer, oblivious to traffic.

The others laugh. Someone HONKS behind them. Billings turns:

Billings turns and throws his beer at the voice. A CRASH,

BREAKING GLASS, a screech of BRAKES, CAR DOORS open and shut...

That does it. The skins run out of frame. SOUNDS of a fight.

Danny watches, indifferent, then finally joins in.

INT. PRECINCT LOCKUP -- NIGHT

The skins in a cell. O.L., head bloody, moaning and vomiting.

Carleton comforts him. Billings paces, looks at Danny,

sitting against the wall, relaxed for the first time.

Danny looks up: a JAILER unlocks the cell. Carla appears

behind him. Danny stops without stepping through the open door.

The other skins are surprised, moved. Carla and Danny stare

at each other. Finally she turns to the jailer....

EXT. STREET CORNER, SUBWAY ENTRANCE -- NIGHT

A Mercedes pulls up, Carla driving. The skins climb out,

Carleton guiding O.L., who cannot see.

Billings turns back, sees Danny still in the car.

Billings nods grudgingly. The car drives off. Carleton grins.

INT. MOEBIUS APARTMENT -- TWILIGHT

Carla leads Danny through the darkened apartment.

INT. CARLA'S ROOM -- TWILIGHT

An old bookcase full of leather-bound German volumes...Danny

opens one marked Hofmannsthal. He tries to read a marked

passage.

They look at each other. There's that gulf between them that

they have to cross, but they're not sure how.

He shrugs. She takes his hand, rubs the bruised knuckles.

She leans close, whispers....

He's surprised, but not very. He grabs her wrist, twists it.

He pulls her out of frame. She starts to say something, but

it's cut off by another CRY OF PAIN. We keep looking out the

window....

INT. SAME -- LATER

The light has shifted across the city, and we hear only a

muffled sobbing.

The CAMERA TURNS to look at...Carla and Danny naked on the

bed. He lies back, reading the German book. She's curled on

her side, weeping abjectly. Still sobbing, she rolls over,

buries her face in his chest. We see that his neck is

scratched up.

She begins to fondle him. He ignores it until he finishes

the poem, then turns to her.

INT. SAME -- LATER

The light has shifted again. Danny sleeps alone, his face

strangely innocent. Carla drops onto the bed, shakes him.

He opens his eyes. She's dressed, her hair wet from the

shower, a faint puffiness around her mouth. He pulls her

down to him.

He looks up. Her face is cold, indifferent. He gets to his feet.

INT. MOEBIUS APARTMENT -- DAY

Danny on his way to the door, hears something, turns...CURTIS

ZAMPF is coming out of a bedroom in his underwear. From

within...

Curtis now sees Danny. A look between them. Danny goes out.

EXT. QUEENS, STAIRS TO ELEVATED TRAIN -- DAY

Once a Jewish neighborhood, now occupied chiefly by blacks,

Latins and more recent immigrants.

As Danny (wearing headphones) comes down the steps... TWO

BLACK KIDS (big, menacing, boombox) are coming up, blocking

his way. Danny walks right between them, forcing them apart.

They turn, glare after him. He turns, glares back. They

scoff and keep going up. He walks on.

EXT. OZONE PARK HOUSE -- DAY

He lets himself into a row house. We barely notice the

mezzuzah on the door post.

INT. OZONE PARK HOUSE -- DAY

A nearly vanished world of lower-middle-class Jewish life,

though the "Jewishness" (menorah, kiddush cup...) is

restricted to one dusty corner behind a secular chaos of

books, newspapers, half-empty cups, half-filled glasses...

Danny's FATHER, 55, sits on a faded chair, an oxygen mask on

a cart beside him. Danny's sister, LINDA, 30, is cutting his

hair with a scissors. When Danny enters, they both look up

at him in surprise, alarm, possibly even love. For a moment

no one knows what to do.

The father begins to wheeze, puts the mask over his face and

breathes deeply. Linda tells him to lean back; resumes

cutting. On the wall we see Danny's BAR MITZVAH PHOTO.

Meanwhile, Danny has found a stack of mail, all addressed to

him. His father and sister are visible behind him in a

mirror. Without speaking, he goes down the hall, and we hear

him DESCEND STAIRS to:

INT. HOUSE, BASEMENT -- DAY

Danny has taken off his coat (revealing a black T-shirt with

a red swastika), and is going through a number of cardboard

boxes marked "D," pulling out comic books, baseball gloves,

martial arts gear, drawings of voluptuous women, morbid

gothic figures, gun magazines, books about Hitler,

Nazis...and finally a .22 AUTOMATIC stuffed in a blue sock.

INT. HOUSE, BASEMENT

He removes the clip, checks the slide, while nodding to the

MUSIC coming through his earphones. He looks up, sees LINDA

at the foot of the stairs, pulls off the headset.

It's too late to conceal the gun; he places it beside him.

She does her best to ignore the swastika shirt....

She looks down as if that were not true, or the way in which

it is too complicated to go into.

They exchange what are almost smiles. But then the subject

she's been trying to avoid -- the only subject -- suddenly

erupts...

INT. LIVING ROOM, QUEENS HOUSE -- NIGHT

Danny (now wearing a plain white T-shirt) bends over the

coffee table eating a noodle casserole and reading the Post.

His father eats off a TV table. He finishes, cursorily wipes

his mouth, picks up a remote and turns on the television.

Danny holds up both hands: he's not arguing, simply informing.

He channel-surfs until he comes to a stand-up COMIC doing a

routine. They both watch.

TV: the COMIC is funny in a brutal, compulsive way. Lots of

pop references, implicit postmodern nihilism. The routine

reflects what Danny (and the Shiites, the Unabomber, Timothy

McVeigh, T.S. Eliot, et al.) have against the modern world.

The father grunts with grim satisfaction, he suspected as much.

Danny sighs: why bother. But adds...

As they watch, apropos of nothing:

The father snorts. On TV the comic gets off a line, and they

both laugh. Their laughs are quite similar; they glance at

each other.

Danny goes into the kitchen. The father extracts a pack of

Salems from between the cushions, lights one, takes a

desperate drag... The phone RINGS. He curses, stubs it out,

grabs the phone.

Danny gives his father a dish of ice cream, takes the phone.

His father looks up. Danny takes the phone into the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

EXT. COFFEE SHOP, QUEENS -- DAY

A HIGH-ANGLE view of the coffee shop. After a moment, Danny

enters frame, starts toward it....

INT. COFFEE SHOP, QUEENS -- DAY

Danny enters, looks around. To his surprise he sees GUY

DANIELSEN from the Nazi meeting rising, extending his hand.

Guy shrugs, smiles apologetically.

ANOTHER ANGLE -- DANNY & GUY WITH COFFEE

As Danny declines, Guy gets out a small cassette recorder,

is about to turn it on, when he notices Danny's reaction....

Danny shifts in his seat, growing more interested....

Danny leans over to make sure Guy's getting it right.

Guy finishes writing that and looks up.

A beat. Danny smiles at the mistake....

He indicates his hair, turns sideways to show his profile?

GUN: pulled from Danny's pants, slammed down on the table...

Guy sits back abruptly. Danny picks it up, cocks it....

Everyone in the place is staring. Danny walks out, stuffing

the gun in his pants, shoving a man aside to get to the door.

EXT. COUNTRY -- DAY

Traveling through low, tree-covered mountains listening to

the overture to Tannhauser.

INT. VAN -- DAY

Carleton driving; O.L. (one eye bandaged) riding shotgun. In

back: Billings and Danny (flipping through a Times.)

O.L. leans out the window, giving dual "birds" to an empty

street.

The others laugh.

EXT. DEFUNCT MOTEL -- TWILIGHT

The van stopped in front. All of them out of the car. No

one's around except the noisy CRICKETS. The city kids are

uneasy.

He walks toward the back. Billings decides to go with him.

O.L. gives him the finger. Carleton laughs -- but he stays

back, too.

EXT. REAR OF MOTEL -- TWILIGHT

Danny and Billings see PEOPLE in back. Now NINE YOUNG MEN

and a bulldog come to greet them: survivalists, speed-freaks,

skinheads...and one blank loner (DRAKE) with a blue swastika

tattooed to his lips like a tiny kiss. A case of STEROID

EXCESS fixes his gaze on Danny.

Are they in the wrong place? Then someone laughs, they all

relax, exchange greetings, obscure handshakes. Everyone's

just getting comfortable when, for no apparent reason...

STEROID EXCESS

slugs Danny in the face.

He stumbles backward. The others crowd around, keep him from

falling, also from getting away. Billings starts to help,

but people grab him: this is Danny's problem.

Steroid comes at him.... Danny steps inside the charge and

goes to work on the bigger man's body. We barely see what

happens, but we hear it and feel the crowd's shock. Danny is

stronger than we realized and much more vicious. In seconds,

Steroid sinks to his knees, face bloody. Danny holds up him,

leans close:

Steroid mumbles in the affirmative. Danny nods -- then hits

him four more shots to the face. Even this crowd winces.

Steroid drops with a wet thud.

As Danny straightens up, wiping the blood off his hands,

people instinctively step back.

On the end: has an extra window. Danny walks into the room.

Steroid's stuff starts flying out the door.

EXT. MOTEL PORCH -- NIGHT

Danny on a pay phone.

EXT. MOTEL PORCH -- NIGHT

Danny hangs up the phone, glances into a room where we dimly

glimpse Nazis taking drugs, drinking beer, screaming...

Then incomprehensible shrieking rage, a fight, breaking glass...

Danny sighs, bored. He spots two nerdy Nazis, KYLE and WHIT,

playing some battle re-creation board game and rehashing

WWII....

Danny looks up the hill toward a farmhouse perched above

them. One light burns inside.

Danny squats to look at the board game.

He grins maniacally. Danny smiles. Kyle is emboldened by

Danny's unexpected friendliness, lowers his voice....

As Kyle and Whit contemplate his wisdom...

They both look up, very interested.

TWO FAMILIES IN TABLEAU -- WOODEN CUTOUTS -- DAY

Jews: MAN (black hat, beard), WOMAN (sheitl, shawl), BOY

(kippah, twerpy), GIRL (fat, ugly), even a DOG, a Star of

David on its side.

Blacks: MAN (watermelon, pitchfork), WOMAN (fat, fried

chicken), BOY (syringe, 9mm), GIRL (twins, welfare check),

DOG (black).

Another SHOT. A bullet hits the Jewish boy in the rear end.

Sunlight streams through the hole. We are:

EXT. REAR OF MOTEL -- DAY

Danny peers down the barrel of an M-16. Kyle squats beside him.

Kyle nods, patient, is drawing Danny's attention back to the

target when...

DRAKE

Sets up beside them, begins squeezing off rounds so fast, it

sounds like an automatic weapon.

TARGETS: the bullets chew up and knock over all four Jews.

And selectively: shooting the man's face, the woman's

breasts, the boy and girl in the groin. The dog he merely

flattens.

Drake looks at Danny without expression, drops the clip,

shoves in a fresh one and riddles the black family in

similar fashion.

EXT. MOTEL PORCH -- NIGHT

Danny, pay phone to his ear, flipping through a New York

Times. He throws it aside as a voice comes on the line....

Click. She's gone. He hangs up, walks straight into...

INT. MOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT

Nazis sprawled about, drinking beer, impassively watching TV.

The bulldog pants on the floor. Carleton calls to it:

It trots over, receives a scrap of food. Everything desultory:

People glance up wearily: give us a break....

EXT. TOWN -- DAY

Danny, Billings, O.L., and Drake walk through the town,

looking for trouble. A couple of local TEENAGERS watch them,

impressed by the swastikas, tattoos, swagger.

INT. DELICATESSEN -- DAY

Two WAITERS (Jewish college students, athletic, confident)

watch the Nazis come in. One indicates to the other that

he'll handle this. He brings menus, water; he's carefully

polite.

The Waiter ignores the innuendo, readies his order pad.

He smiles. Billings glares.

Steve approaches, a sawed-off broom handle over his shoulders.

The Nazis laugh. Steve swings the broom handle at Danny...who

ducks it, grabs it, slams it back at him.... GAVEL RAPS...

INT. COURTROOM -- DAY

A JUDGE (white-haired, red-faced, blue-eyed, well-meaning)

peers down at the four NAZIS, still bruised from the fight.

The Nazis are relieved. Spectators disappointed.

INT. A SOCIAL ROOM -- DAY

NUMBERS TATTOOED ON AN ARM...a thumb steadily smooths the

skin as:

The Nazis, accompanied by a "HATE COUNSELOR" (male) sit in

plastic chairs opposite five elderly JEWS. The speaker is in

her late 60s, still something of a beauty.

SNICKERING among the Nazis, a whispered crack:

The Nazis laugh. The Jews try to calm the woman, though she

has spoken without any evident emotion. Billings gets up

restless.

INT. SAME -- LATER

Nazis are dozing, staring out the window. O.L. threads a

piece of dental floss through the zipper pull on his

trousers. Danny is visibly disgusted by the whole business.

Over this we hear:

THE MAN: mid-70s, tall, stooped, a crushed spirit.

Billings is muttering, "What a load of crap..." The Hate

Counselor looks over sharply. The other Nazis are stunned by

the story. Danny can barely contain himself, though we are

not sure why.

FLASHCUT: EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY

A horse hitched to a hay wagon; FARMER driving. THREE NAZI

SOLDIERS have discovered a Jewish family hiding in the hay.

A sergeant is holding up something unseen on the end of his

rifle.

The Polish man who has been telling the story looks up at

whatever it is. Blood falls on him. The Nazis are laughing.

BACK TO SCENE: INT. A SOCIAL ROOM -- DAY

The room is silent. The Nazis faces blank, shaken. Until...

The counselor is briefly confused....

The Jews are shouting about historical records, the

disappearance of families, whole towns.... But Danny is louder:

Some surprise that a Nazi is arguing against a denier.

The other survivors are embarrassed by this, but the Ancient

Jew ignores them.

Danny scoffs, gets up to leave.

As Danny walks out, the Ancient Jew catches his eye.

Her use of Danny's name feels knowing, slyly invasive. All

SOUND VANISHES for a beat, and Danny barely manages to say:

EXT. MOTEL -- DAY

Kyle opens the trunk of his car, shows Danny inside: two

bags of shotgun powder and several lengths of metal piping

with screw-on caps.

EXT. THE FARMHOUSE -- DAY

In the driveway: Carla's Mercedes, a Triumph motorcycle.

Danny peers in through the windows, goes to the door.

INT. FARMHOUSE, LIVING ROOM -- DAY

Danny sees Carla sitting on a green sofa wearing a white

sundress and leafing through a magazine. Curtis is mixing

drinks. Lina is practicing with her stylus on a new

electronic organizer.

Danny greets them all. Carla barely looks up.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- A FEW MINUTES LATER

Danny talking with Lina and Curtis but watching Carla.

Curtis rolls his eyes. Lina signals him to lay off.

A phone RINGS in another room.

Carla puts down her magazine, goes out to the kitchen.

Danny's eyes follow her, and Curtis's follow his.

Danny is stung. Carla calls from the kitchen.

He starts: who could be calling him here? As he goes into

the kitchen to take the phone, Curtis says quietly...

She hears him but doesn't respond.

INT. KITCHEN -- DAY

Danny picks up the phone; there's a New York Times beside it.

Carla busies herself about the kitchen.

Danny starts to hang up, sees Carla watching, turns away

keeping his voice low.

He hangs up. He grabs the Times, looks through it quickly.

He tries to kiss her. She pushes him away.

She starts to walk past. He grabs her arm.

She tries to pull free; he won't let her go.

He tries to kiss her, but she ducks away and goes out.

EXT. STREET/INT. O.L.'S VAN -- EVENING

Danny is parked opposite a fortresslike building of soiled

brick. For a long time he cannot bring himself to get out.

Finally he opens the door....

INT. AHAVAT TORAH, FOYER -- EVENING

A LARGE WOMAN, about 40, her body barely contained by a

brilliant magenta dress, greets him with a smile the size of

a wedding cake. She holds out a prayer book stuffed with flyers.

She speaks quietly, not wanting to disturb the service, yet

even so her voice is huge, and her flashing eyes clearly

expect some kind of enthusiastic response. Within we hear

the ALENU being chanted.

Danny ignores her and the proffered siddur. A basket of

yarmulkes seems to infuriate him, but he snatches one anyway

and, conveying a helpless disgust, puts it on his head. From

within he hears...

He stands with his hand on the door, but not opening it.

The organist plays a brief decrescendo....

She's startled but not intimidated, is about to respond,

when Danny simply turns and walks out of the building.

EXT. AHAVAT TORAH -- EVENING

He stops beneath an open window through which he hears...

Danny closes his eyes, but at the end adds, under her breath:

A half dozen VOICES, including Danny's, recite in unison...

The body of the congregation joins in on certain phrases,

producing a subtle and solemn music. Danny chants the entire

prayer, and the moment it ends, and the rabbi begins the

benediction....

EXT. AHAVAT TORAH/STREET -- EVENING

...he starts toward his car. But the Rabbi's VOICE seems to

follow him, unnaturally loud and clear:

As Danny reaches the van, he sees the LARGE WOMAN silhouetted

in the open doorway....

Danny realizes he's still wearing the kippah. He throws it

at her, but it only goes a couple of feet. He catches it,

throws harder. This time it floats back toward him, and he

has to jump out the way to keep it from hitting him. He gets

in the car and drives off.

A WRISTWATCH: 12:05. We are:

EXT. FARMHOUSE -- NIGHT

Danny hoists himself onto the kitchen roof. Above him is an

open window, candlelight flickering. He starts into the room,

stops....

INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Carla sits on the bed, straddling Curtis, who lies beneath

her. She is looking right at Danny. Curtis, unaware of him,

keeps thrusting into her from below.

Danny starts to leave, but on second thought stays. Carla

stares expressionless, yet more attentive to him than to

Curtis. Indeed, their eyes never leave each other, so that

when she becomes aroused, we understand that it is Danny she

is responding to, Danny she is really making love to.

Gradually her face loses its aloofness and seems to reach

out to him, to reveal feelings that she can no longer deny.

She holds her gaze until, at the final instant, she shudders

out a series of stifled cries.

When she looks again, the window is empty.

INT. DANNY'S MOTEL ROOM -- DAY

Danny reading. A KNOCK at the door. He looks up, Curtis

comes in. Danny stiffens at the sight of him, but Curtis is

friendly.

Danny tilts the book to show him: History of Political

Philosophy.

INT. DARKNESS -- NIGHT

The sound of SPLITTING WOOD. Then VOICES in a cavernous space...

One appears, illuminating nothing, dissipating into the

still vaster darkness. A SERIES OF LIGHTS bang on in

ecclesiastical bursts, illuminating: a vaulted ceiling...

stained glass panels... We are:

INT. SYNAGOGUE SANCTUARY -- NIGHT

A dour, ornate place built in the early decades of the

century. The sight of it silences everyone for a moment. Then...

Drake, Billings, Carleton, O.L. and Steroid run wild...

kicking over benches...spray-painting swastikas...hurling

prayer books...urinating from the balcony...

...Danny looks around like someone revisiting his childhood

home: slides his hand along a pew back...leafs through a

chumash...gazes up at the eternal lamp behind its red

glass...the gilded doors of the ark... A hint of Kol Nidre

MUSIC haunts him....

Danny turns; Kyle is right behind him.

As they unscrew a panel, Carleton runs past. A football

flashes overhead. We hear GLASS BREAK...LAUGHTER.

INT. UNDER THE STAGE -- NIGHT

DANNY WATCHES KYLE attach a bomb (four sticks of dynamite

wired to a digital timer) to a 2x4 with a bungee cord. He

hooks the ends, cautiously lets go. The cord springs free.

The bomb falls.

Kyle gasps. Danny catches it.

Frozen, they look at each other. Kyle exhales, takes the

bomb and, with Danny holding it, carefully restrings the

bungee. A MECHANICAL NOISE overhead:

Kyle has no idea and doesn't care. Danny scrambles out.

INT. SANCTUARY -- NIGHT

Straightening up, Danny is stunned by a vision:

THE OPEN ARK -- THE TORAHS

...their silver crowns and breastplates, velvet robes. And

Steroid Excess, lifting one out. Danny reacts with an

instinctive horror.

Steroid -- cowed by Danny -- starts to obey, but before he

can...

Each CURSE makes Danny wince, but he just hovers about

nervously as Billings and Steroid try to unwrap the Torah

while others gather, some comically wrapping themselves in

tallises.

He indicates the bema, stepping back as if to deny any

involvement, yet at the same time trying to monitor

everything they do.

Danny cannot endure this desecration, but everyone else

laughs, so he keeps his mouth shut.

He shoves his way in and, gripping the handles, unrolls the

Torah. Low MURMURS at the sight of the broad columns, the

mysterious calligraphy, the CRACKLING parchment. Danny

himself is struck by the sudden immediacy of the sacred text.

OVER this...

Danny nods, then, as if against his will....

Danny sees Drake watching him, smirks to express his disgust.

Danny's incredulous, though it's not clear how many of the

others know why Eichmann was.

Billings bristles at Danny's authority; Carleton says to him...

The others are gathered around, delicately touching the

sheepskin.

He pushes through, looks at the Torah. He runs his fingers

over the crinkled parchment, the smooth black letters.

Suddenly Billings grabs the parchment in both hands and

tries to tear it. It's tougher than it looks.

He tries to stop him, but -- accidentally or not -- Drake

gets in the way, and before Danny can do anything else,

Billings crumples it and finally tears a long gash into the

scroll.

This produces a strange effect on the others. Some (Kyle,

Steroid, Drake) join in. They knock the aitz off the bema,

it rolls out, exposing ten feet of Torah. They stamp on it,

spit on it.... Others (Carleton, O.L.), though less troubled

than Danny, are surprised (and embarrassed) by their own

revulsion at these acts.

Danny watches helplessly, like the survivor who did nothing

as his son was murdered.

Finally the Torah lies torn and soiled on the stage. A

strange silence.

...Danny kneels by the Torah. With a tallis, he attempts to

clean the parchment. Carleton and O.L. help him roll it onto

the aitz. [Echo "Christ taken down from cross" with Torah as

Christ.] They replace the cover, the yod, the crowns....

Finally Danny lifts it up, holds it to him as if it were his

dead child. He closes his eyes, murmurs to himself....

He starts to walk out, carrying the Torah.

EXT. AHAVAT TORAH -- DAY

A VIDEO IMAGE:

INT. DANNY'S MOTEL ROOM -- DAY

Danny, Kyle and others watching the TV.

ON TV: Cindy (sleek, sexy) and the rabbi (handsome, vain).

Danny is beside himself.

ON DANNY. Sound fades. He's haunted: "Nothingness without

end" was what he'd told Guy Danielsen the Jews were obsessed

with. He seems to hear the cello playing "Kol Nidre" again.

Then...

He switches off the TV. Shoves them out the door, slams it.

INT. DANNY'S MOTEL ROOM -- LATER

Alone he sits at the desk, finds himself gazing at the Torah,

standing in a corner of his closet, draped in the tallis.

He slams the closet door, it bounces open. Slams it again,

making sure it latches.

He sits down, looks at the closed door until, in bitter

resignation he gets up and opens it again.

He unrolls the Torah on the bed...Scotch tapes the tear

closed...attempts to clean the stain with a moistened cloth.

INT. DANNY'S MOTEL ROOM -- DAY

Danny is in the bathroom in front of the mirror, holding his

shirt up with his chin as he wraps the tallis around his

torso. When he lowers the shirt, the fringes hang out like

the tsitsis that Orthodox men wear.

He feels a weird loathing for this, but he smooths and

arranges the tsitsis to look just like a Hasid's. He clicks

his heels together and gives a Nazi salute.

Another Nazi salute. A KNOCK at the door. He hides the

fringes under the shirt, throws a blanket over the Torah.

EXT. MOTEL -- PAY PHONE -- DAY

Danny hangs up. Stands there. A VOICE makes him jump....

Danny turns: it's Drake. These are the first words he's spoken.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET/INT. CAR -- DAY

Danny and Drake pass a low-slung modern synagogue. A sign

announces: AMBASSADOR ILIO MANZETTI Friday, August 31. Danny

reacts, startled...Drake smiles.

EXT. CONGREGATION BETH SHALOM -- TWILIGHT

The building is lit. Within we hear an AMPLIFIED VOICE,

presumably Manzetti giving a speech. We can't make out the

words. Danny and Drake are hidden among the rhododendrons

flanking the parking lot. Danny is watching a door in the

side of the building and eating a sandwich as Drake loads a

scoped rifle.

Danny assumes the prone position, Drake sets the rifle in

his hands.

We hear APPLAUSE within as the speech ends.

THROUGH RIFLE SCOPE: Danny pans from the side door -- where

TWO MEN are smoking -- to a waiting limousine.

Before Danny can respond, Drake gestures toward the synagogue.

Danny puts his eye back to the scope.

SCOPE POV: stirring at the door. The men put out their

cigarettes. Three figures emerge: a MAN and a WOMAN on

either side of an older, distinguished-looking man (MANZETTI).

They walk this way.

SCOPE POV: the TRIO walking this way, cross-hairs on Manzetti.

Danny FIRES, misses. Everybody hits the ground.

Danny looks over his shoulder. His shirt has ridden up his

back, revealing the tallis wrapped around his waist.

Drake pulls a .45 from the duffel.... Without thinking,

Danny rolls over, fires the rifle. Drake is blown backward,

dropping the .45.

Danny leaps up.... Drake's on his hands and knees, his

trousers quickly darkening with blood. Danny's upset.

FOOTSTEPS, coming this way. Danny runs. We hear voices, "Get

down.... Stay down.... He's got a gun...." Drake picks

himself up, stumbles away, bent over....

EXT. QUEENS -- DUSK

Danny parks the van in an abandoned lot near the river.

Quickly wiping down the wheel with his shirt, he tosses out

his duffel bag and the scoped rifle. He climbs out, wipes

down the door, throws the rifle into the water, grabs the

duffel and hurries away.

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Danny's on the phone, whipping through several newspapers.

He finds a tiny item: "Gunfire Reported at Synagogue." He

scans it: no mention of Drake or himself.

He hangs up. From behind some books, he extracts the small

caliber handgun he found in his father's house earlier.

INT. MRS. MOEBIUS'S APARTMENT -- TWILIGHT

Danny alone, waiting, nervous. He hears FOOTSTEPS approach,

he touches the gun in the back of his trousers. Lina and

Curtis enter.

Danny is relieved and intrigued. Lina nods at Curtis to go on.

OFF-SCREEN we hear the front door. FEET come up the stairs....

He stops short as Carla walks into the room for shopping.

She glances at them, puts down her bags, goes into the

kitchen....

Danny's watching Carla go down the hall toward the back, can

barely bring his attention back to the conversation at hand.

He nods but cannot look at her.

He's dismissed. He rises.

She smiles. He manages a smile back and hurries away, face

burning with shame.

EXT. MOEBIUS APARTMENT, STREET -- NIGHT

Danny comes out of the building, squats between two parked

cars and vomits, retching spastically until, gasping for

breath...

He turns. Carla walks over to him, wipes his mouth with a

crumpled tissue. When she moves to kiss him, he holds back,

shy about the smell, but she kisses him anyway, on the mouth.

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Carla, naked, browsing the books, sees something in the

closet. It's the Torah Danny took from the synagogue. She

unrolls it on the bed, her gaze moving over the mysterious,

glossy script. Danny, coming out of the bathroom, sees what

she is doing, and stops short.

She looks at the broad printed columns....

Danny looks at the word, then back at her. He's torn between

competing desires, but finally...

Danny remains silent a moment, affected by the passage....

He looks at the smooth expanse of her back, the articulations

of her spine. He finds her very beautiful.

She grudgingly pulls on the shirt as he gets a pencil and paper.

He shrugs as if indifferent to these rules, yet compelled to

point them out.

He writes each letter as he says it, and she repeats after him.

EXT. WILLIAMSBURG BRIDGE -- DAY

Danny and Kyle.

Kyle's confident, and the prospect of this really happening

gives Danny pause. He feels a brief chill, escapes it with...

Danny nods, gestures for Kyle to split. Kyle looks around,

walks away. Danny waits a moment, then heads in the opposite

direction.

EXT. WILLIAMSBURG -- DAY

Danny walking behind a Hasidic family (MAN, WOMAN, 3-year-

old BOY, STROLLER)...watching them. At a corner, the father

takes the boy's hand, and as they cross the street, the boy

glances back at Danny.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY, 1943

TWO NAZI SOLDIERS have just discovered a JEWISH FAMILY

hiding in the back of a hay wagon. The POLISH MAN is holding

the little boy.

As a soldier tries to take the BOY out of his arms, the

child panics, clings to his father, screaming, "Papa...

Papa..." It is the scene the survivor described in the

meeting with the Nazis. But now the father is DANNY'S

FATHER....

A Nazi sergeant comes over, irritated. The sergeant is Danny.

The sergeant rips the child out of his arms. The kid becomes

hysterical. The father manages to take the boy's hand.

In an access of disgust, the sergeant sticks his bayonet

into the boy -- or rather, into something offscreen. We hear

a terrible sound, the child grunts. The family gasps in horror.

Danny/sergeant lifts the (unseen) child into the air. Its

SHADOW darkens the father's face. Drops of blood run down

his cheeks....

Danny/sergeant stares into the father's face, enraged at the

man's passivity.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

DANNY'S FACE -- sweating, haunted, as if he's just woken

from the previous.

He's still walking down the street, but now, as if to flee

his thoughts, he steps through a door into...

INT. BOOKSTORE -- DAY

A Jewish bookstore. He grabs the first book that comes to

hand, reads for a moment, throws it down in disgust. Picks

it up again, is still reading when...

He looks up at a young man about his own age; wearing a

yarmulke, but otherwise normal, hair clean, beard neatly

trimmed.

Danny puts down the book, trying to conceal that he's been

reading it. He offers a hand. Stuart manages to restrain the

impulse to embrace him, but takes the hand warmly.

Meaning he can't talk about it. Stuart nods. Danny notices a

young woman: dark, curly hair, sharp eyes.

An irony to her. They certainly remember each other.

He glances at Miriam; but she has picked up the book he'd

been reading, is leafing through it. It makes him uneasy.

Danny gives her a dirty look, but Stuart's thrilled:

As Stuart scribbles an address...

Danny smiles. He has no intention of going. Once they leave,

he picks up the book and resumes reading.

INT. AN EXECUTIVE SUITE -- DAY

ROGER BRAND, a high-powered CEO, sits behind a big desk,

speed-reading something through half-glasses. He finishes,

removes the glasses. A New York Times is on the desk.

Brand's phone beeps, he touches a button, continues.

On Danny, troubled by this.

INT. A SMALL LECTURE HALL -- EVENING

A half-dozen white lumpen sit at desks. Danny writes "ANTI-

SEMITISM" in large letters on a blackboard. He turns....

He looks around. The room is silent.

Murmurs of "Yeah. Both." But some are confused by this.

INT. SAME -- ANOTHER DAY

Slightly bigger crowd, a few middle-class-looking people.

The audience, confused...

INT. SAME -- DAY

...More people: white collar workers of both sexes, nurses,

artists. Lapel buttons, bumper stickers, backpacks: "FIGHT

NEW WORLD DISORDER" "STOP THE WTO" "EARTH FIRST!"

EXT. NEW JERSEY MEADOWLANDS -- DAWN

Danny and Kyle sitting in the tall grass across the

marshlands toward the Manhattan skyline shimmering in the

distance.

He points sharply and an explosion occurs thirty yards away.

They run over, pick up the mangled timer. They're pleased.

EXT. JCC (ANSCHE CHESED) -- DAY

A couple of stragglers hurry through the door as we hear...

INT. SMALL CHAPEL -- DAY

Rosh Hashanah services. A woman is davening....

DANNY...sitting with Stuart and Miriam...

Danny looks at AVI (athletic, smooth-shaven) who grins

sardonically and fakes a punch as...

Danny's startled by the question, but before he can react...

Avi lunges at him. They begin pounding each other. Chaos.

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

Miriam and Danny walk down West End Avenue together. He's

oddly relaxed with her?

She smiles and even he smiles a little. They walk together,

oddly companionable.

She stops in front of a nice doorman building. He's impressed.

In an excess of paranoia, he walks away. She calls after him....

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Sweltering heat. A fan ruffles Carla's hair as she lies on

the futon going back and forth between Hebrew/English Torah

and a Hebrew grammar. Danny is on the floor lifting weights.

He looks at her without answering.

In an access of something, she bites his arm, hard. He

winces, pushes her away. She kisses the place she bit. He

starts to play with her hair....

He laughs, likes her arrogance. But she misunderstands:

As they make out, grow aroused...

Danny's taken aback by the simple logic.

And, of course, she has grown up among Nazis.

INT. SMALL LECTURE HALL -- NIGHT

Packed with a well-dressed crowd, very different from the

crowds we've seen here before.

DOWN IN FRONT: Mrs. Moebius and Danny talk in low tones.

She straightens his tie, directs him toward the lectern. He

hesitates....

She walks away.

INT. SMALL LECTURE HALL -- STAGE -- NIGHT

Danny steps to the lectern. The CROWD QUIETS. He stands

silent for a long moment, then closes his eyes and chants

with feeling:

General confusion. Mrs. Moebius and Curtis exchange wary

glances.

Nervous laughter. Danny laughs with them.

A scattering of applause, growing more sustained...

Silence. No one wants that.

Puzzled mutterings: "What?... What's he talking about?..."

People react with confusion, uncertainty, suspicion.

ON THE AUDIENCE, befuddled. A HAND goes up. Danny nods to it.

The man steps forward, and we see that it's Guy Danielsen of

the Times. Danny is shaken....

Murmurs of confusion, outrage... "God??!!!" Danny notices

the TALLIS crawling out from under his shirt, stuffs it back in.

One or two voices respond, but must people shout him down.

Mrs. Moebius is outraged. People are throwing things,

shouting. The meeting degenerates into chaos.

INT. MOEBIUS APARTMENT -- DAY

Danny talks to Mrs. Moebius. Offscreen we hear a TV.

INT. KITCHEN -- DAY

Carla watching a small TV on the kitchen counter. Danny

arrives, followed by Lina and Curtis as we hear...

Mrs. Moebius impatiently signals him to silence.

At the mention of Manzetti's name, Danny goes white.

Danny's knees are weak, his hands cold, his stomach rises....

He becomes aware of the others, staring at him in amazement.

She and Curtis walk out of the room. Stunned, shaken, Danny

leaves in a different direction. The TV plays to an empty

room...

EXT. MOEBIUS BUILDING/STREET -- DAY

Danny wanders out the door in a daze. His cell phone RINGING.

He has to search his pockets, then fumbles to turn it on....

He hears a CAMERA SHUTTER and MOTOR DRIVE. He turns....

EXT. ACROSS THE STREET -- DAY

GUY DANIELSEN & A PHOTOGRAPHER.

They're coming toward him.

Suddenly Danny runs after the photographer, they struggle....

Danny opens the camera, rips out the film, exposing it.

Danny glares at him without answering, walks away. Guy

hurries after him....

Guy backs off. Danny crosses the street.

He glances back. It's the PHOTOGRAPHER who has reloaded and

now SNAPS a shot AS DANNY TURNS AWAY and keeps going....

EXT. LOWER MANHATTAN -- DAY

Danny and Miriam walking together among the trees.

He doesn't know how to answer, walks away from her to the

railing overlooking the water. He stares into the current

flowing past. Finally Miriam joins him....

Miriam is stung. She can't believe he said that. Still, she

gets a small tape recorder out of her purse, hands it to him.

Danny watches her walk away, then turns to the railing.

Ideally a FERRY is pulling away from its slip and heading

out across the harbor. He watches it, then looks down at the

current moving past. He reaches a decision, throws the tape

recorder into the water, turns and walks away....

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT -- LATE AFTERNOON

Danny stops just inside the door. The place is spotless. The

desk has been pulled out from the wall, covered with a snowy

cloth and set for a Sabbath meal: brass candelabrum, challah

under a satin cover...and two place settings.

Carla is pouring wine into the kiddush cup. She's wearing a

modest dress, her hair is pinned up with a piece of lace.

She turns, startled; she hadn't heard him come in.

He grabs a couple of olives off the table, eats them as he

goes through his closet, stuffing a couple things in a bag....

He finds it (a kittel), stuffs it in the bag.

He trails off, looks at her. She's everything he ever wanted,

and he's already lost her.

He walks out, leaving the door open. Carla starts to call

after him, but then doesn't. She turns back, lights the

candles and awkwardly reads the prayers....

EXT. STREET/PAY PHONE -- SUNDOWN APPROACHING

Danny on a phone. Behind him, Jews hurry home for the

holiday. He hears a BEEP...

She argues (we hear her VOICE not her words)...Danny cuts

her off.

She's still talking when he hangs up and walks away.

INT. MOEBIUS APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Lina and Curtis with Billings and Drake, who looks bad...

The phone RINGS. Curtis answers, listens, covers the mouthpiece.

She takes it with a dramatic gesture.

INTERCUT WITH:

EXT. PAY PHONE, 65TH STREET -- NIGHT

A CLICK as she hangs up. He's pleased. He steps away from

the phone. He's carrying a grease-stained bag and is across

from...

TEMPLE EMANU-EL...KOL NIDRE being sung by a soprano within;

and ORGAN accompanying her.

EXT. 5TH AVENUE AND 65TH STREET -- NIGHT

In the synagogue across the street we hear KOL NIDRE being

sung by a soprano; an ORGAN accompanying her. Danny looks up

at the temple.

FLASHCUT: EXT. FOREST ROAD -- DAY, 1943

Looking up as the Nazi sergeant holds the boy on the bayonet

over the father's head. But now Danny is the father, and the

father is the sergeant.

He lunges at the Nazi, knocking him down, tearing at this

throat. The sergeant screams....

Danny bites through the Nazi's jugular as bullets rip into him.

INT. FIFTH AVENUE AT 65TH/INT. KYLE'S CAR -- NIGHT

Kyle's car is parked on the Central Park side of

Fifth....Danny gets in the passenger side. Kyle is behind

the wheel, wiring an explosive device. Danny hands him the

grease-stained bag.

Kyle holds up a solitary pipe bomb.

Kyle has extracted a cheeseburger and shake from the bag. As

he starts in on them, he realizes Danny isn't eating.

Eating, Kyle starts the car, pulls away....

INT. MOEBIUS APARTMENT -- SAME TIME

Curtis picks up a cell phone and dials.

Billings nods. Drake unconsciously licks the center of his

lower lip. As they leave, we see that he limps horribly.

When they're gone...

EXT. FIFTH AVENUE/INT. KYLE'S CAR -- DRIVING -- NIGHT

POV inside van. Fifth is quiet. Temple Emanu-el again,

straight ahead. But now we see SECURITY GUARDS near the door.

POV speeds up, whips past the synagogue.

The Plaza straight ahead...

ON DANNY'S FACE

INT. A DARKENED BLDG (JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER) -- NIGHT

A pencil-beam flashlight moves through the darkness. We

follow it. The light enters a space where SOUND ECHOES....

INT. JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER ROOM -- NIGHT

A PENCIL BEAM shows Kyle on his back attaching the bomb to

some kind of wooden floor cupboard. He's worried about the

paltry amount of explosives.

Danny is too preoccupied flipping through a machzor to answer.

Kyle sighs, goes about doing it, he HEARS SOMETHING and freezes.

Danny clicks off the light. A SILHOUETTE on the windows...

Light on. Relieved, Kyle turns his attention back to the bomb.

Kyle checks his wristwatch, sets the timer to eighteen hours

eighteen minutes. It begins counting down.

EXT. SYNAGOGUE -- NIGHT

Kyle and Danny come around the corner, get in Kyle's car

parked near the side door.

EXT. EIGHTH AVENUE NEWSSTAND -- NIGHT

A stack of papers, the early edition of the Times. As Danny

grabs one, he notices a stack of tabloids....

FRONT PAGE: The Manzetti crime scene with screaming headline:

"MANZETTI SLAYER JEWISH NAZI." Next to this another tab:

"JEW KILLS JEW?"

Danny grabs a Times, flips it over... We see only his face:

registering this, unsurprised. He opens the paper....

INSERT: TWO PHOTOGRAPHS

The sweet-faced bar mitzvah boy we saw at his father's

house... And a BLURRY PHOTO of Danny walking away from Guy

Danielsen and the photographer outside Mrs. Moebius's house.

Danny's face is not clearly seen.

TILT UP TO DANNY

Calm. He tucks the paper under his arm beside the machzor

and crosses Eighth Avenue toward a cheap hotel....

CHEAP HOTEL -- NIGHT

Carrying the papers, Danny goes through the door.

INT. HOTEL ROOM -- EARLY MORNING

Danny at the window, staring out. The TV plays behind him.

On TV -- A REPORTER INTERVIEWING MRS. MOEBIUS

Danny can't help smiling at her audacity.

The set is CLICKED OFF with the remote. In the darkened

screen, we see Danny take his bag off the bed and go out the

door.

EXT. JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER -- LATE AFTERNOON

As Danny approaches, a STOCKY YOUNG MAN on a folding chair

outside the front door checks him out.

The Stocky Young Man beckons him on. As he passes, Danny

spots a gun and shoulder holster inside the man's zippered

jacket.

INT. JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER -- DAY

Several Yom Kippur services are going on in different rooms.

And we hear different groups of VOICES. And one reading...

Danny puts on his kittel -- a white prayer coat.

INT. JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER, 2ND FLOOR/INT. SMALL

AUDITORIUM -- DAY

About forty WORSHIPPERS, most in their 20s and 30s. Danny

slips into the back, spots Carla up front with Miriam and

Stuart. He's shocked, appalled....

CARLA -- trying to follow along the prayer book, suddenly

Danny is leaning over her shoulder from the row behind.

People sitting nearby HUSH him; he ignores them.

The SHUSHING becomes louder.... She turns away.

Danny looks around at the scolding, angry, pious faces....

He hates them. He sits back and closes his eyes.

EXT. FOREST ROAD -- DAY, 1943

The Jewish father (played by Danny's father) is ripping open

the Sergeant's jugular as the soldiers shoot him. One of the

soldiers (who is now Danny) says:

The soldiers begin firing.... But now, three Israeli

commandos appear, Danny, Avi and the security guard we saw

outside. They fire Uzis at the Nazis, who fire back.

Danny the Nazi soldier and Danny the Israeli commando fire

at each other at point-blank range. The SOUND fades and we

hear SCRAPING CHAIRS, MURMURS, VOICES....

INT. SMALL AUDITORIUM -- SUNDOWN

Danny wakes with a start. People are about to resume after a

break, but there's some confusion. People are talking to

Stuart, who keeps glancing toward Danny....Danny finds his

machzor and gets up...as he approaches the bema, Stuart

comes to meet him.

Stuart backs down. Danny steps onto the bema, opens the machzor.

He glances at a clock at the back of the room: 6:14.

People join in, but one man, in back, is outraged.

Chuckles.

He stalks to the door but doesn't leave, turns back as if

compelled to watch this outrage...as....

He begins the silent amidah, taking three steps backward,

then three forward, bowing as he prays so that he sees the

watch on the lectern.... It says: 6:16....

INT. A ROOM -- SUNDOWN

Kyle on hands and knees, gasping for breath, his face bloody.

DRAKE sits in a chair, injecting methamphetamine into the

vein of his forearm. Billings comes through the door with a

newspaper.

He squats beside Kyle, shows him the Times story about Danny.

Kyle thinks, glances at a watch: 6:47.

INT. SMALL AUDITORIUM -- TWILIGHT

The windows have darkened. The congregation is on its feet

chanting the AVINU MALKENU, the climactic prayer of the day.

Danny, leading the prayers, looks up at Carla, Stuart,

Miriam...near the front, chanting with him. He looks at the

clock: 7:21.

Suddenly it seems impossible to go through with this. He

stops praying, but no one notices....

EXT. JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER -- TWILIGHT

As Kyle, Drake and Billings approach, the place seems to

glow with an inner radiance. Drake and Billings hold weapons

at their sides.

The stocky security guard sees them coming and gets up,

reaching for his gun. Billings and Drake stop. Kyle wishes

he weren't here.

Everything suspends for a moment as, within the building,

three distinct GROUPS OF VOICES can be heard, each chanting

the AVINU MALKENU at a slightly different point in the prayer.

Drake raises his gun and fires.

INT. JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER -- SMALL AUDITORIUM -- TWILIGHT

People are chanting AVINU MALKENU so fervently that the

GUNFIRE outside seems only a faint POPPING. No one

particularly notices. Danny, freaking, doesn't hear the

gunshots. He tries to address the people in the front rows....

But the praying is too loud, too strong. No one stops or

listens. He steps down off the bema....

A few people in front are puzzled by his strange behavior,

but the rest keep chanting. Stuart comes up to Danny....

Danny glances over people's heads at the clock: 7:25. He

doesn't notice...

THE DOOR

BANGS open. DRAKE stands there, .357, bleeding profusely

from the head, the swastika on his lips. At first, only a

few people notice, they stop praying.

Avi is the first one out of his chair, walks right at Drake.

Drake shoots him. Avi goes down, writhing in pain. Screams,

panic. People come at Drake, but he grabs an 11-year-old

girl, puts the gun to her head.

Everyone turns, including Drake -- who's blinded by the

blood in his eyes, but recognizes the voice.

Drake moves unsteadily toward the front, pulling the girl

with him. A WOMAN (a doctor) goes to tend Avi, who is still

conscious. People begin to slip out the back, taking

children. Others stay, looking to jump Drake, but he keeps

the .357 on the little girl.

He steps back onto the bema, separating himself from the

others and drawing Drake's attention. The clock reads 7:28.

Outside we begin to hear SIRENS....

Drake refocuses, pulls the girl on.... From the hall, we

hear OTHER GROUPS in the building, chanting....

At the front, Drake wobbles. People start forward. He cocks

the gun against the little girl's head. She's weeping silently.

Drake looks. Danny reaches out a hand. Drake points the .357

at him and FIRES, missing. A HAND grabs the little girl,

pulls her to safety.

The room is nearly empty now, save Miriam, Carla, Stuart, a

few others. The AVINU MALKENU can still be heard from the

hall....

Drake wobbles from loss of blood. Nearly drops the .357.

Danny glances at the clock: 7:30. What is it, another dud??

Drake FIRES again, hits Danny in the shoulder....

She runs forward. The shoulder hurts; he calls to the others....

Miriam, others, grab Carla, pull Carla toward the door.

Drake comes toward Danny, trying to lift the .357 for the kill.

Danny grabs Drake's gun hand, forces it up in the air. The

gun goes off. Plaster rains down on them.

Drake dies. Danny catches him under the arms.

He looks at the watch: 7:32. He relaxes.

The instant before the prayer ends...it's cut off by a

sudden silence. Then a FLASH of light...

The SCREEN GOES WHITE...

INT. STAIRCASE, YESHIVA -- DAY

Where we saw Danny leave the school as a 12-year-old. Now

LOOKING DOWN, we see Danny as an adult, coming up them two

at a time.

FOLLOWING DANNY as he races up. His old teacher, RAV

ZINGESSER, appears on a landing above....

But as he nears the NEXT LANDING, there is Zingesser waiting

for him again...

Danny goes past once more....

But now, LOOKING DOWN at Zingesser as he appears above Danny

yet again. As Danny nears the landing...

As Danny passes the camera we PAN to watch him still racing

upward. beyond us into the darkness....

