A BLACK SCREEN:

Various voices:	  "Big six"... "That's six the hard way"...

FADE IN:

EXT.  UPPER EAST SIDE - NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT

One of the pristine blocks of brownstones where even the

garbage seems gift wrapped.  The VOICES continue over as

we move in on a particular building where a DOORMAN is

holding open the door for a dowager and her poodle.

The voices continue:  "Hit me"... "Double down"... "Let it

ride"... "Hit me"... "Anymore for the come out"...

"Card"...

In contrast to the outside of this sedate, quiet

brownstone, we go inside to find...

INT.  BROWNSTONE APARTMENT

... a miniature Las Vegas, complete with music, drinks,

tuxedoed dealers and croupiers:  roulette, craps, Black

Jack.  Wall to wall people.  The fact that casino gambling

happens to be illegal in New York doesn't stop these

Connecticut slummers, hollow-cheek nightlifers, and junior

wiseguys from having a good time.

AT THE CARD TABLE

NICK CONKLIN, holding a dollar cigar, is trying to pull a

winning hand.  In his late thirties, Nick has the sort of

quiet good looks that takes an extra glance to appreciate.

His Moe Ginsburg rent-a-tux is too tight, his ruffled

shirt, out of date; Nick could care less.

Two other players are still in the game.  One of them is a

lithe DEBUTANTE surrounded by an entourage of giggling

friends and tuxedoed men.  The pot is huge.

Nick flips two one hundred dollar chips onto the pot.

Disgusted, he throws down his cards.

It's down to Nick and the debutante.  The cocky deb gives

Nick a long look, confident she can win.

She throws her chips on the pot.  Nick hesitates, then

decides to match it.

Nick turns over his cards, Jacks and tens, not good enough

to win.  Elated, the deb gets up from the table and joins

her giggling friends.  Nick walks over to her.

That draws a laugh from her friends.  The entourage heads

for the bar.

CHARLIE SKLOARIS, twenty-three, steps in front of the

debutante, blocking her path.

She steps to the side.  Charlie steps with her.  Charlie's

pushing it, he's always pushing it.  She's not amused.

Finally, Charlie lets her pass.  He comes up to Nick.

Only two things count to Charlie:  his job and his women,

but not necessarily in that order.

Nick, wary, eyes this kid.  Charlie shrugs, spreads his

arms defensively.  The SOUND of pounding on the front

door.

THE DOOR

splinters.  The bouncer steps back as four helmeted

emergency service officers -- the first members of the

raiding party -- rush in.

Pandemonium.  People rush for the exit -- any exit.

AT THE BAR

Nick and Charlie hold up their glasses.

They down their drinks, then set them down.

Charlie pulls out the Binaca, offering Nick a spritz, but

Nick is already pulling out his POLICE BADGE and hanging

it around his neck.  Charlie quickly follows suit.

A HALF DOZEN COPS

line the patrons up against the wall.  The Asst. D.A.,

PATTY ZACHARA, climbs onto the crap table.  A petite,

nervous woman, Patty has dressed in a Channel suit for the

occasion.

Not a prayer.

That quiets them.

Zachara, annoyed, looks at Nick.

NICK

catches the Debutante's eye across the room.  She smiles

at him, he was right.  He shrugs, spreads his hands.

That's life.

A well groomed middle aged man, who we'll come to know as

CAVELLO, suddenly bolts from the crowd lined up against

the wall.

Charlie spins around to stop him --

Cavello butts him with his head, sending Charlie to the

floor.  Then, crosses his arms in front of his face and

plunges through the WINDOW.

Nick, not missing a beat, gives a small sigh as he

follows.

He takes off after him.

EXT.  STREET UPPER EAST SIDE - NIGHT

Nick, short of breath, chases Cavello down the residential

street, past the dog-walkers, past the doormen, past the

fur-coated women climbing out of taxies... Unfortunately,

Cavello has a good half block on him.

From nowhere, Charlie blasts past leaving Nick a half

block behind, silently cursing his age.

AT THE CORNER

a limo jerks to a halt, and Cavello jumps in.  The limo

streaks away.

CHARLIE

turns to see Nick, hands on knees, gasping for air.

INT.  LOCKER ROOM - TWO EIGHT PRECINCT - NIGHT

Now in their street clothes, Charlie and Nick stand in

front of the mirrors.  Charlie is working his brush and

hair dryer as if his life depended on it.  Nick, in

contrast, shoves his hair back with his fingers and

glowers at himself in the mirror.

Nick turns to leave.

EXT.  POLICE PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Nick strides out the door.  Charlie hurries after him.

Charlie trails Nick to his motorcycle:  a Harley hog

complete with wide gleaming fenders and twin tanks.  The

bike is held together with tape and baling wire.

Nick tries to kick-start this behemoth, but it's not easy.

Charlie puts his foot up on Nick's fender to tie his shoe.

Nick, spotting an ankle holster peeking from Charlie's

sock, grabs Charlie's foot.  Charlie teeters.

Nick pulls out a Beretta 32.

The Harley comes to life spitting a cloud of blue smoke.

Nick puts on his paint-flecked helmet, slides down some

ski goggles.

Nick pops the bike into gear.

Nick rolls out and disappears in a haze of blue smoke.

EXT.  BELT PARKWAY - VERRAZANO BRIDGE - NIGHT

WE FIND Nick, a lonely, solitary figure bobbing in and out

of the lights and shadows.  The SOUND of wind whips

through his helmet; cold air stings his cheeks... The tail

lights of Nick's bike disappear into the night.

EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET - STATEN ISLAND - NIGHT

Civil service heaven.  Nick hits the cut switch and glides

past the manicured lawns and well kept houses of this

development.  A basketball net in every driveway, a Buick

or Chrysler in every garage.

One house sticks out.  The lawn is brown, paint is peeling

off the garage door and newspapers are scattered on the

driveway.  Nick glides once around the cul de sac looking

at the house.  His house.  It's as inviting as an open

grave.  He shoots away.

INT.  EL GRECO DINER - STATEN ISLAND - NIGHT

A hanger sized roadhouse, wall to wall red velvet.

Nick's the sole figure at the counter, coffee and the

Daily News in front of him.  A NURSE walks in and sits

down a half dozen seats away.  Nick look up.

INT.  CONNIE'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nick and Connie are in bed.  They're both looking up at

the ceiling.  They've just made love.

Nick kisses her.  The first suggestion of real affection.

The SOUND of someone KNOCKING on the door.  Reluctantly,

they stop.  Connie gets up and puts on her robe.

She disappears down the hallway.  We HEAR the door open,

then telling someone to wait.

INT.  CONNIE'S APARTMENT

Nick, wearing only his pants, is doing a slow burn.

Charlie is holding his hands up defensively.

Charlie looks away momentarily, letting it slide.  He

knows he's on sensitive ground.

The bedroom door opens.  Connie enters, dumps Nick's

clothes on the couch, tosses his gun on top of the pile.

Without a word, she goes back inside and slams the door

behind her.

Nick, pissed, slowly turns to face Charlie.  Charlie

shrugs.  Nick's got nothing better to do than go.

INT.  LIME HOUSE - CHINATOWN - NIGHT

The Lime House is a little piece of Italy in the heart of

Chinatown, and tonight, it's packed.  Any selection on the

jukebox that isn't Frank Sinatra is Jerry Vale.  Behind

the bar are two fat BROTHERS.  One pours drinks, the other

dishes out Scungilli.  It's three a.m.  It's always three

a.m. at the Lime House.

AT THE BACK TABLE

Our man CAVELLO is unloading steaming Scungilli onto an

already heaping plate in front of an imperious looking

JAPANESE MAN.  The Japanese Man, in his mid-fifties, wears

a gray suit, and not a strand of his jet black hair is out

of place.

A Japanese TRANSLATOR, doing his best to translate

Cavello's heavily accented English, sits between them.

AT THE BAR

Charlie is looking straight ahead, afraid Cavello might

peg him.  Nick is at ease.

Charlie, trying to relax, gestures toward his foot.

Nick's attention is drawn to a trio walking in the door.

WHAT THEY SEE:  TWO BODYGUARDS are making a quick sweep of

the bar.  FRANK ABOLOFIA, s stocky man with silver grey

hair, sweeps in behind them.  Abolofia has mitts like a

meat packer and a fifty dollar manicure.  A heavyweight

Mafioso.

Abolofia walks to Cavello's table.  All rise and shake

hands.  The two hitters take seats at the bar.  The two

brothers scramble to serve their distinguished guests.

Nick turns away, resumes his drink.

NICK'S POV IN THE MIRROR BEHIND THE BAR:  two new Japanese

men step in the door.  Early twenties, spiky hair, dark

Versace suits.

NUMBER ONE

wears tortoise shell shades.  He coolly checks out the

room then nods to --

NUMBER TWO

who pulls a Spas 12, automatic shotgun from under his

coat, and spits out three rounds.  A window shatters.

Everyone hits the floor.

NUMBER ONE

slowly walks toward Cavello's table.

NUMBER TWO

covers the floor.  Abolofia's bodyguards show their empty

hands.

NICK AND CHARLIE

on the floor.  They don't have the artillery for this guy

either.

AT THE TABLE

Our Japanese businessman knows these people.  He eyes them

contemptuously.

Abolofia has put enough people in this situation to be

philosophical about it.  He stops chewing.  A tiny

hand motion to his bodyguards is enough to stop any

precipitous action.

The Japanese businessman looking straight ahead.  A long,

silent pause... Then, still not facing him:

Number One slips his fingers beneath his shades, massaging

his eyes.  IN A FLASH, he pulls a shuto from under his

coat.  The 18 inch blade gleams like a neon tube.

He presses the tip of the blade against the businessman's

throat.

CHARLIE

his hand close around the grip of the Beretta.  He unsnaps

the ankle holster.  The SNAP can be heard across the room.

Nick's hand closes around Charlie's and squeezes till the

knuckles turn white.

NUMBER TWO

levels the scattergun at Nick and Charlie.

AT THE TABLE - NUMBER ONE

calmly holds the blade at the man's throat as he reaches

into the man's jacket and removes a small, rectangular,

plastic-wrapped parcel.

He feels its weight, then flips it to NUMBER TWO.

Abolofia, realizing that whatever is going on doesn't

affect him or his, resumes eating.

NUMBER ONE backs the blade off.  The man raises his napkin

to the small wound.  A droplet of blood has stained his

shirt collar.  NUMBER ONE turns around as if to leave.

What happens next could be a whim, an after thought.

Number One spins around and THRUSTS the blade deep into

the man's chest.  He withdraws it with a half twist, and

in the same motion fatally slashes the translator's throat

before the old man's body hits the floor.

Blood pours from the businessman's mouth onto his

Scungilli, spreading across the white cloth and onto the

floor.

CAVELLO

reaches for a gun under his coat.  But NUMBER TWO pumps

two rounds into his face.  At this range, there's not much

left.

The killers slowly back out the door, covering the room

with the scattergun.  The minute the door shuts, Nick

leaps up, pulling his shield and revolver.

Abolofia's eyebrows rise at this development.

Nick bolts out the door leaving Charlie in charge.  He's

never been in charge before.

EXT.  THE LIME HOUSE - NIGHT

A Lincoln tears around the corner to pick the killers up.

Nick flies out the Lime House door and hits the ground.

Number Two pumps out shells as fast as he can squeeze the

trigger.  He's wild.  The front windows of the Lime House

shatter.

The LIMO DRIVER jerks to a halt.  Number Two tosses the

package to him.

Nick empties his revolver.  Number Two goes down.

The driver floors the accelerator, leaving Number One to

take off on foot.  Nick follows, reloading as he runs.

INT.  THE LIME HOUSE

Everyone's frozen on the floor.

Nothing from the owner who looks at Abolofia.  Charlie

grabs the owner by his collar and shoves him toward the

phone.

Suddenly Charlie feels something wet at his feet.  He

looks down to see that he's standing in a pool of blood

from the massacre.  So much for his new shoes.

He wheels around, then quickly backs out the door.

EXT.  STREET - DOWN THE BLOCK FROM THE LIME HOUSE

Deserted.  The wail of police sirens in the distance.

Charlie has his gun out.  He's drenched in sweat.  Where

is his partner?

ANOTHER STREET - ALLEY - NIGHT

Nick, gun drawn, slowly rounds the corner to the alley:

it's the ad hoc drugstore for the night.  Drugs going up

and down in pails, two dozen junkies buying, shooting,

slumped on the ground.  Everyone scatters -- the one's

that can.

AN ABANDONED PAIL

swings slowly back and forth from three stories up.  Nick

cautiously moves down the alley, holding the gun in both

hands.  A Junkie steps out of a doorway, Nick swings his

gun and nearly blows him away.

NUMBER ONE

We see his eyes first as he steps out of the darkness at

the back of the alley.  From now on we'll call him KOBO.

His sunglasses are on his forehead; his hands dropped

casually at his side.  A very cool character.

Kobo slowly raises his hand, and making a gun with his

finger, slowly points and "shoots" at Nick... He lowers

his hand.

Kobo cups his hands around his ear.  He doesn't understand

English.  Nick, keeping his gun fixed, comes up to him and

kicks out his legs.

Kobo falls flat on his chest.

Nick pulls out his cuffs.  But Kobo lunges for Nick's

ankle and yanks it toward him.  Nick stumbles backward;

Kobo's on his feet.  Before Nick can stand, Kobo lands a

brutal kick to the side of Nick's head.

Nick gets up, barrels into him.  Kobo knees Nick in the

solar plexus, then lands two more well placed kicks in

Nick's back.  It's not that Nick's a bad fighter, it's

that this kid is so damn fast.

Nick slowly gets to his feet.  KOBO lands two more brutal

shots to the side of Nick's head.  He's a bloody mess.

TWO POLICE CARS

stop at the end of the alley.  FOUR OFFICERS climb out.

CHARLIE

joins the cops as they run down the alley to find Nick

getting pummeled.

Charlie shoots at Kobo.  Misses.  Kobo turns to see the

five cops, guns drawn.

Nick, on one knee, spits out blood and a few teeth.

Kobo calmly slips the shuto out of his coat pocket and

drops it next to Nick.  The blade gleams in the light.

That was next.  Nick got lucky.

Kobo towers imperiously above Nick.  Their eyes lock.  We

hold then...

FADE IN:

NICK'S LIVING ROOM - STATEN ISLAND - MORNING

There isn't a stick of furniture, but that's not the half

of it.  In the middle of the room is a motorcycle on a

centerstand.  A drop cloth is spread around it, tools

neatly aligned.  It's a Harley -- but this one is in

perfect condition.

A phone RINGS insistently from off screen, then stops.

Nick walks in, naked.  Every muscle aches.  One side of

his face is completely swollen.  He has a band-aid over

his right eye; some blood caked on his earlobe.  He stops

to twist a spark plug in with a ratchet, but it snaps.

INT.  EIGHT - THREE PRECINCT - DAY

CAPT. OLIVER, early forties, walks between Charlie and

Nick as they head toward the Medical Examiner's room.

Oliver doesn't face Nick as he speaks; no love lost

between these two.

Nick rubs the back of his neck in obvious pain.

Oliver goes through the swinging doors into the Examiner's

room.  Charlie shoots Nick a look.  Nick let's it slide.

INT.  MEDICAL EXAMINATION ROOM

A TECHIE is showing the night's harvest to Charlie, Nick

and Oliver.  They're standing over the body of the middle-

aged Japanese man.

AT ANOTHER TABLE

Another techie is carefully removing the skin from Number

Two's fingertips.

Charlie shuts his eyes and turns away, trying not to throw

up.

He whips back the sheet, the body is nude.  A towel covers

the genitals.  Except for the feet, hands, neck, and face,

the body is covered with elaborate tattoos:  flowers and

blood, dragons and snakes.

They look up surprised.  The techie picks up a hand.  The

third and forth fingers have been neatly amputated.

INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

ABOLOFIA is seated in chair next to his LAWYER.  Nick,

Oliver, and a third detective are grilling him.

Silence.  Abolofia looks at Nick, then at Oliver.

Abolofia doesn't blink an eye, goes for the jugular.

Nick springs from his feet.  Oliver grabs Nick before he

can get close to Abolofia.

KOBO

the Japanese killer who smashed in Nick's face last night.

He's sitting in an interrogation room an hour later with a

DETECTIVE and a JAPANESE TRANSLATOR.  He won't talk.

OBSERVATION ROOM

Nick and Oliver watching through the glass.

Oliver nods.  That's the way it is.

ON KOBO

he turns and looks at Nick.  He can't possibly see him

through the one way glass but he knows Nick's there.

ON NICK

looking at him.

ON KOBO

making a cutting mark across his forehead, right where

Nick's bandage is.  It's uncanny.

INT.  OLIVER'S OFFICE - LATER

Nick is sitting in front of Oliver's desk.  The sunlight

makes him wince; wincing makes his face hurt.

Oliver drops a file folder on the desk.  Nick opens it:

petty cash, vouchers and plane tickets.

Nick bridles at the insult.  Oliver's had a hard-on for

Nick for years, and Nick's tired of it.

Oliver doesn't want to get into it.

THE ORANGE SUN

on the tail of a Japan Airlines 747.  A driving rain

storm.  The plane taxies down the runway and disappears

into the black rain.

INT.  AIRLINER

Kobo, handcuffed and shackled, is in the center seat.

Nick and Charlie sit on either side.  Charlie is holding

"Bachelors Japan" in one hand.  Nick's in a sour mood.

The last thing Nick wants to hear -- too late.

Nick can't help but smile at this kid.  Charlie looks down

at the guide book.

Nothing from Kobo who is looking straight ahead.  He

doesn't understand.

A beat, then Charlie reads a Japanese phrase from the

book.  A slight facial response from Kobo.  Charlie tries

it again.  This time Kobo laughs openly.

Kobo keeps laughing; it's obviously not what Charlie said.

INT.  AIRLINER - LATER

The cabin is now darkened.  Kobo and Nick are asleep.  Not

Charlie, he's still at his book, and listening to U2 on

his Walkman.  Nick rolls over and opens his eyes to see

Charlie watching him.  He shuts them hoping to avoid talk.

Too late.

Charlie removes his headphones.

Nick shuts his eyes.

Nick opens his eyes.

Nick shuts his eyes.

HOLD on Nick then...

INT.  NARITA AIRPORT - JAPAN - DAY

Nick and Charlie, with Kobo between them, are a strange

sight in a sea of Japanese faces.  Kobo's hands are cuffed

behind his back.  Nick also has Kobo cuffed to his wrist.

The cops are rumpled, exhausted, showing two days of

stubble.  Kobo looks sharp and wide awake.

A pair of attractive teenage girls walks past them.

A PAIR

of white gloved hands belonging to a Tokyo police officer

holds up a small, hand letter sign that says:

CONKLIN/SKLOARIS.  The man holding the sign is NAGASHIMA.

Two other police officers in spotless tan uniforms stand

at his side.

Nick, holding Kobo by his arm, steps up to the police and

show his I.D.  Nagashima bows.

They show their I.D.

He barks some orders to the officers who immediately take

Kobo by the arms and put cuffs on him.  Nick unfastens

his cuff when they're through.

In contrast to Nagashima's gentility, the cops are rough

with the prisoner.

Nagashima shakes his hand.  Bows.  Charlie bows back.

Nick wouldn't bow if his life depended on it.  Nagashima

hands Nick an official looking document.

Nick grabs Charlie by the arm and starts for the customs

line.

INT.  CUSTOMS BOOTH - DAY

NICK and CHARLIE make their way through the crowd toward

the head of a long line.  They dump their bags on the

counter.  The INSPECTOR, furious that they have taken cuts

in line, barks at them in Japanese.

He hands the Inspector the official looking document.  The

Inspector scans the paper.  Hands it back to them.

The Inspector signals a nearby POLICEMAN.  The Inspector

says something in Japanese.  Hands the policeman the

document.  The policeman shakes his head, amused, points

to the end of the line.

From off screen someone CALLS OUT:

Nick and Charlie turn to see KOBO, their prisoner,

standing on the other side of the thick plastic divider.

The handcuffs are off.  The three alleged 'policemen' are

heading out the door behind him.  It was a set-up:  Nick

and Charlie have been had.

He slowly backs away from the glass as if he had all the

time in the world, finally disappearing in the crowd.

NICK AND CHARLIE

trying to shove past the customs inspectors who are

wrestling them aside.

Two more policemen arrive.  Nick and Charlie are thrown up

against the wall.  Out come the cuffs.  SNAP!

INT.  TOKYO POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY

Fifty identical desks.  Fifty identical phones.  Fifty

identically dressed men in white shirts and ties working

under the fluorescent lights of this large open room.

We GLIDE PAST the rows of desk to find INSPECTOR OHASHI,

mid forties, sitting behind a perfectly arranged desk.

Ohashi prides himself on order.

Nick and Charlie are standing in front of him.

Ohashi remains poker faced.  He continues to arrange

papers and apply his hanko (personal seal) to the bottom

of a stack of official papers.

Still nothing from the good inspector.

Still nothing from Ohashi.  Finally:

Ohashi bows slightly, we're not sure why.

Pause.  Ohashi returns to his papers.  Nick can't believe

it.

Ohashi holds up the document that was handed to Nick at

the airport.

Nick studies him for a beat, then turns away.  To Charlie:

Reluctantly they head towards the door, passing long rows

of bureaucrats, telephones ringing off the hook.  Nick

stops at the door, spots a fuse box nearby.  He glances

back to make sure no one is looking.

Nick pulls out his handcuffs.  Charlie can't figure out

what the hell he's doing.  Nick attaches one cuff to the

main lever then yanks it down.

The lights go out.  The fan's stop; so do the typewriters;

so does the air conditioning.  Dead silence.

Nick attaches the other cuff to a pipe, snaps it shut.

Now it's impossible to left the main lever.

From the far end of the room:

Nick drops the key down the water fountain drain.

EXT.  POLICE STATION - DAY

Nick and Charlie cross the street.  Charlie's trying to

read the name from the piece of paper Ohashi has given

them.

Charlie pulls out his 'Footloose in Tokyo" book, flips

through the pages.

Nick goes into a restaurant.  Charlie drops the book,

disgusted with Nick's choice.  Charlie reluctantly follows

him in.  REVEAL it's a Shakey's Pizza restaurant.

EXT.  HOUSING PROJECT - SHIN OKUBO - DAY

Rows of post-modern buildings of odd shaped windows and

brightly painted concrete walls.  Nick and Charlie are

searching for the Japanese cop's building.  They can't

speak the language; they can't read the signs; and half

the buildings don't have numbers.  It's a nightmare.

Charlie holds out the paper to a passing man.

The man gestures toward the building Charlie was pointing

to.

Charlie grins, satisfied.

INT.  HOUSING DEVELOPMENT - CORRIDOR - DAY

The boys are knocking on a door.  Nick turns the handle.

It's unlocked.

THE APARTMENT

A four tatami room.  An unholy mess:  Food packages, beer

bottles, stacks of papers and file folders.  Framed

pictures of long dead relatives hang on the wall.

A WOMAN now appears at the door.  Middle aged, wizened

face, in a full traditional Kimono.

The woman babbles bird-like in rapid Japanese.  She bows.

They're in the right place.

EXT.  SIDE STREET - MINIMAI MURAMATSU - NIGHT

The jammed streets are barely wide enough to get a

motorcycle down.  It's a bad neighborhood, one of the

poorest in Tokyo.

We spot the small kimono clad WOMAN, clip-clopping on

wooden geta, leading Nick and Charlie through this

labyrinth.

Seeing they've stopped, the woman gestures for them to

hurry up, then disappears around the corner.

A GARISH PINK SIGN - PINK SARON BAR

A poor man's idea of a bar.  The woman points inside,

chirps away in Japanese, bows, then hurries off leaving

Nick and Charlie on their own.

INSIDE PINK SARON

Nick and Charlie disappear into darkness as the woven

flaps shut behind them.  A vintage wurlitzer juke box

glows across the room.  An Enka plays.  (Haunting Japanese

blues.)

ICHIRO MATSUMOTO steps into a pool of light just inches

from them.  He is a short overweight man looking every

minute of his fifty-five years.  His white short sleeve

shirt is too tight; his narrow tie spotted in the middle;

his collar soaked in sweat.  He's not drunk yet, but he's

been at it a while.  Call him Ich.

This is Ohashi's best man?  Well, at least he speaks

English.

Ich nods, offers them what's left of his Sapphoro beer.

They shake their heads.  Ich finishes it.

Ich heads for the door without saying a word.

INT.  ICHIBANKAN BAR BUILDING - KABUKI CHO - NIGHT

Imagine an ultra modern indoor shopping mall, except there

aren't any stores.  The only product sold here is

pleasure:  Bars, hostess clubs, Turkish baths.  A post-

modern red light district with music piped in and

automated doormen.

INT.  LAS VEGAS WELCOME CLUB

Hip, younger Japanese are wedged together at the long

chrome bar.  The GUYS sport leather jackets and Raybans.

The GIRLS are decked out in fifties American party dresses

and short cropped hair.  Jerry Lee Lewis wails in the

background.

Nick, Ich and Charlie are at one end of the long bar.  Ich

is drinking them both under the table.

Ich sets down his drink, pours more sake for Nick and

Charlie then for himself.  He's having a great time.

Nick glances at Charlie.

Nick gets to his feet.  Ich grabs him by the arm, stopping

him.

Ich doesn't give him a chance to answer.

Ich polishes off his drink.  An awkward silence.  Charlie,

wanting to lighten the mood --

Nick sighs, digs in his pocket for some yen for the bill.

Ich looks up to see a picturesque, blood-haired American

WOMEN in a tight silk blouse and skirt.  She works here

and has obviously heard Charlie.

Ich nods.  Joyce's Japanese is impeccable.  She's a part-

time bartender, translator, model.  One of Japan's western

wanderers.  She's sliding past thirty, but only her weary

eyes give it away.  She is about to pour Ich another

drink.

Charlie extends his hand to Joyce.  She ignores it.

She refills Ich's glass.

Cold.

She says something in Japanese to Ich as she eyes the

cops.  Then, she walks off.

EXT.  ICHIBANKAN BAR BUILDING - NIGHT

Charlie and Nick are trying to help a besotted Ich find a

taxi, but no one will take him.  Ich is shouting half

English, half Japanese phrases.

The cabbie ignores them.

They turn to see Joyce standing behind them.

The rest is slurred Japanese.  Joyce speaks to a cabbie in

Japanese.  The rear door swings open.  She helps Ich in.

Joyce climbs in.

The taxi pulls away.  Nick and Charlie watch it go.

EXT.  STREET - FOUR A.M.

An early morning wind jostles the red paper lantern and

plucks at the tails of dragon-like banners hanging outside

the shops.  Nick and Charlie are walking down this narrow

sidestreet on the way back to their hotel.

A brand new Kawasaki 1000 motorcycle with windshield and

full farings gleams under a street light.

Nick glances over at his partner, smiles.  But before he

can respond --

The DULL ROAR of a half dozen motorcycles in the distance

breaks the pre-dawn stillness.

TWENTY BOSOZOKU (BIKERS)

on their multi-cylinder high tech street bombers, creep

around the corner and slowly ride toward Nick and Charlie.

We get a better look at them:  turbo punk Elvis-samurai

hybrids -- some wearing a slipper under their headbands,

courtesy of their girlfriends; some in leopard skin pants.

And tattoos...

They head straight for Nick and Charlie, then, at the last

moment, split and float away IN SLOW MOTION, as if the

cops didn't exist.

Suddenly, the street is empty again.  Silent except for

the SOUND of the wind beating against paper lanterns,

rustling the wind chimes...

Hold on Nick and Charlie standing in the middle of the

street, realizing just how far away from home they are.

EXT.  HOTEL - THE NEXT MORNING

A rocket shaped building:  a mixture of Dutch Gable and

Japanese Minka roof.  The mid-day sun beats down on a

particular room.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM

Nick and Charlie are sacked out.  They never bothered to

pull the curtains.  THE SOUND OF KNOCKING at the door.

But Ich persists.

AT THE DOOR

As Nick opens up.  Ich bows.  He's now clean shaven and

has put on a clean shirt.

INT.  PRINTING PLANT - DAY

The murder scene.  NO SOUND.

A SERIES OF SHOTS:

A BODY FROM THE WAIST DOWN in the claws of six foot

working robotic.  The tattooed covered legs swing back and

forth like a pendulum.

THE TORSO is wedged in between two enormous printing

rollers.

THE HEAD is resting in the middle of a conveyer belt.

It's been drenched in black printer's ink which has begun

to congeal.

WE SLOWLY TRACK PAST Ich, Charlie, and Nick, watching.

Charlie has the dry heaves.

REAL SOUND as we reveal the full crime scene.  Instead of

the usual cigar smoke, camera flashes and radio chatter,

there is order and quiet.  A slow underwater dance.

INSPECTOR OHASHI

quietly gives an order.  Someone turns off the robotic.

The severed legs stop swinging.

Nick, Charlie and Ich walk over to Ohashi.  Ich bows

deeply.  Ohashi doesn't acknowledge any of them, talks to

a man holding a tape measurer.

Ich looks down at the floor.

Ohashi pauses.  Ich looks at Nick as if to warn him he

can't speak to Ohashi that way.

He bows.  It's pathetic.

Laughter all around.

Another sarcastic dig.  Ich stoically stands and takes it.

Ohashi coolly flicks the ashes of his cigarette and we --

EXT.  PRINTING PLANT - DAY

Ich, Nick, and Charlie are threading their way through the

crowd toward the subway entrance.

TWO BIKERS, their hair slicked back, watch the trio from

the top of two different subway entrances.

As soon as Ich, Nick and Charlie go down the steps, they

climb off their bikes and follow.

INT.  SUBWAY STATION

Nick, Ich and Charlie are riding the people mover that

stretches the length of this endless tunnel.  They're

sandwiched between the legions of SALARYMEN (white collar

workers) who all wear identical blue suits and white

shirts.

Nick looks over at Ich, who is still suffering in silence

from the recent humiliation.

Ich looks away, obviously uncomfortable.

Ich nods.

Charlie slaps Ich on the back.

NICK smiles at Charlie's remark.  He can't help but like

this wide-eyed goofy kid.

Something makes Nick's smile fade.

NICK'S POV

KOBO, their escaped prisoner, hurrying in the opposite

direction.  His Kamali suit looks like it just came from

the cleaners.

Charlie spots him.  In a flash, the two men jump the

railing and charge after him, leaving Ich in their wake.

Ich can't possibly make it over the side.  He furiously

shoves his way through the Salarymen, trying to get to the

end of the walkway.

CHASE SEQUENCE

-- Nick barreling through the mass of faceless Salarymen.

-- Kobo, hurrying ahead, occasionally glancing back.

-- Charlie catching up to Nick.  They've lost him.  They

-- Nick and Charlie spotting Kobo.  He's waiting for them

Nick suddenly realizes it's a set-up.  Before he can say

anything, Charlie sprints ahead, recklessly shoving

people out of the way.

Charlie hasn't heard him.

AT THE TURNSTILE

Kobo hands a ticket to the turnstile guard and disappears

onto the platform.  Charlie doesn't have a ticket.  The

guard points to the automatic ticket machine.  Screw it.

Charlie leaps over the turnstile.

The GUARD blows his shrill whistle to signal the subway

police.

THE PLATFORM

Charlie pushes through the crowd -- a wall of blank faces.

Kobo is gone.

NICK

shoving through the crowd.  He spots Charlie.  Shouts at

him to wait.  Charlie can't hear his partner.

THE SUBWAY

pulls in.  An immaculately uniformed CONDUCTOR blows his

whistle and waves his white-gloved hands to keep the crowd

back.

A LEATHER JACKETED BOY shoves Charlie from behind; he

stumbles forward toward the track.  Someone catches him at

the last moment.  Charlie turns around to see it's Kobo.

Kobo smiles, it's all a big joke.

What follows happens in a flash:

ON NICK

Nick is close enough to see, too far to do anything.  He's

blocked by TWO MORE LEATHER BOYS.  He tries to shove past,

but they grab him.

KOBO

holding Charlie by his coat lapels.  An express train

tears into the station.  Kobo casually glances at

NICK

trying to struggle free.

KOBO

his eyes still on Nick, drops Charlie in front of the

speeding express as if he were a sack of laundry.

NICK

A woman SCREAMS.

The train barrels through the station.

Kobo starts toward Nick.  He's next.

A pair of SUBWAY POLICEMEN burst through the crowd

searching for Charlie because he vaulted the turnstile.

NICK

manages to break free of the leatherboys holding him.

They flee into the crowd as the police close in.

ACROSS THE PLATFORM - KOBO

slips into the wave of commuters being shoved into a

train by white-gloved MEN.  It's their job to shove

commuters into the already packed cars.

Nick goes for Kobo, but the crowd closes in front of him.

He can't get through.

THE SUBWAY DOORS

slam shut.  The train pulls out leaving Nick standing on

the empty platform.

THE LAST CAR

streaks past him.  Kobo stands in the rear window, getting

smaller and smaller until the train disappears down the

tracks.

Ich, out of breath, is standing on the platform.  Nick

looks at him with disgust -- where the hell was he.

STAY on Nick, his head bowed, being surrounded by the sea

of blue-suited commuters.

FADE IN:

NICK'S FACE against a white wall.  That's all we see.

Ohashi's voice OFF SCREEN.

We HEAR a door open and SLAM shut off screen.  Hold on

Nick, frozen in place, then:

INT.  CENTRAL SECTION - TOKYO POLICE H.Q. - DAY

Again, the fifty desks, fifty faceless men working.

Typewriters CLACKING, phones RINGING.  We MOVE down the

rows to find Nick sitting behind one of the desks.  He's

on the phone to New York.

Oliver hangs up.  A moment of long distance hum cross

talk.  Nick doesn't move.  Pull back through the rows of

cops busily working... SOUND FADES.

Charlie Parker's alto sax FADE UP as we --

EXT.  SHINJUKU - NIGHT

The MUSIC continues.  The sax screams as the melody is

abandoned.

Nick is drunk.  Roaring angry drunk.  He doesn't know

where he is.  He doesn't care.  He plows down the street,

occasionally grabbing a passerby, then letting them go.

Nick begins to laugh.  A couple is staring at him, Nick

yells at them, but we DON'T HEAR HIM.  He stumbles on...

drop back to find.

ICH

following in his wake.  He bows and apologizes to the

offended.

EXT.  LAS VEGAS WELCOME BAR - NIGHT

Nick is thrown onto the street.  He tries to reenter and

is thrown out again.  We spot JOYCE inside watching; she

turns back to her customers.

EXT.  GINZA - NIGHT

Nick is hassling a news vendor who pointedly ignores him

and continues selling his papers.  Ich appears and

apologizes to the news vendor.

EXT.  STREET - TWO A.M.

Nick's sitting on the curb, his head in his hands.  People

step around him.

Across the street, out of Nick's sight, Ich is watching

his partner, feeling every barb of Nick's shame.

Charlie Parker continues over the slow...

NICK --

asleep, the futon tangled around him.  He opens his eyes.

A woman is making tea in the kitchenette.  This is the

kimonoed woman who led Nick and Charlie to Ich the other

night.

A RADIO is on softly in the background.  The Charlie

Parker tune we've been listening to over the previous cuts

ends, and the announcer comes on:

Nick slowly sits up to see

ICH

seated at a low table looking at him from across the room.

Nick spots his clothes and luggage stacked in the corner.

Nick now realizes he's in Ich's apartment.  It's spotless.

Everything is now in its proper place.

Nick's eyes fall on Charlie's things:  his sports clothes,

his tour book, his shoes which Ich has stacked on the

table.

Nick slowly shuts his eyes, his head pounding.

INT.  PUBLIC BATH - DAY

The neighborhood bathhouse.  Thick with steam and

neighborhood kids.

Nick walks toward the huge pool of water.  Ich is beside

him.  Nick's about to climb in when Ich stops him, hands

him a pail and a washcloth and points to the faucets along

the wall where a dozen men squat on small stools as they

wash themselves.

NICK

as he pours a pail of water over his head, it runs down

his face in slow motion.

THE POOL

Nick soaking, on one side.  Ich is soaking nearby.

Nick looks at this thick bellied, alcoholic cop.  Not a

very reassuring thought.

TWO MEN carrying plastic pails cross in front of the tub.

Young, muscular Yakuza, their bodies covered with

exquisite tattoos.  They stare openly at Nick.  One makes

a joke.  Both laugh obscenely as they slip into the hot

tub.

Ich nods.  Nick eyes them for a long beat, then climbs out

of the tub.

NICK

Nick tossing two bags into a taxi in front of Ich's

apartment building.

ICH

Ich watching Nick through the window from inside his

apartment.  He glances back and sees Charlie's "Members

Only" coat hanging on a hook.

When he turns back, Nick's taxi has disappeared.

EXT.  NARITA AIRPORT

The brightest object in the frame is a yellow forklift

carrying a jostling aluminum coffin toward the open belly

of the cargo plane.  Nick watches it from the edge of the

tarmac.

AIRPORT CHECK IN GATE

Nick hands the clerk his ticket.

Nick spots a folded newspaper someone has left on the

counter.  He can't read it, of course, but there's a

picture of the subway platform where Charlie was killed,

swarming with police.  Nick continues to stare at the

paper.

ICH'S APARTMENT - DAY

Nick steps in, drops the two suitcases.

The woman steps out of the kitchen, babbles something in

Japanese.  Nick doesn't have a clue.

INT.  LAS VEGAS WELCOME BAR - AFTERNOON

Only a handful of patrons.  Joyce is straightening bottles

behind the bar.

She looks up, surprised to see Nick standing in front of

her.

Beat.

Nick's surprised at how fast she heard.

Nick smiles.

Draw.

From OFF SCREEN:

Nick turns to see Ich, leaning against the door frame.

He's already had a few drinks too many.  He's delighted to

see Nick.

Ich ambles into the room, slips down into a chair.  He

spills the contents of the large manila envelope he's been

carrying onto the table:  a wallet, a set of keys, playing

cards, etc.

Nick walks over to the table and looks at the items.

Nick sits down.  Joyce gives Ich his scotch.

Nick picks up various items off the table.

Ich drapes his arm over Nick's shoulder.

Ich reaches for his drink.  Nick gets there first.  He

holds it up as if he were proposing a toast, then

purposefully spills his drink out.

Ich has just had his last drink on duty.

THE TABLE - LATER

All the contents of the envelope are spread out on the

table:  credit cards, matchbooks from New York City,

choice clipping from Screw magazine, sugarless gum, cuff

links...

Nick's holding up a series of photos.

CLOSE ON PHOTO

of a naked women and Kobo screwing on a Tatami mat.

Another photo.  Then another.  Each photo is more

pornographic than the next.

Joyce picks them up as Nick sets them down.

Nick holds out several of the same girl in various poses.

INT.  PACHINKO PARLOR - DAY

The largest in Tokyo.  Endless rows of men sitting in

front of the machines (horizontal pinball games) furiously

punching the flippers.  The NOISE from the metal balls is

deafening.

A MAN

in a Hawaiian shirt, his arms covered with tattoos, is

starting a new game.

Ich moves up to the vacant machine beside him, puts in his

change.  Ich doesn't face the man as they speak in

Japanese.  The man in the Hawaiian shirt walks off.

ON NICK

as the man in the Hawaiian shirt walks past him.  This is

the snitch.  Nick glances back at Ich.  Ich nods --

they're in business.

A CRAMPED ROOM - REAR OF PACHINKO PARLOR

We HEAR the clattering of the machines outside.  The man

in the Hawaiian shirt, mid-fifties and badly in need of a

shower, is sitting on the floor studying the photos.  Ich

and Nick tower above him.

The man says something to Nick in Japanese, then continues

to study the photos.

Nick sighs.

Ich asks in Japanese.  The man shrugs.

He grabs the man by his shirt collar and shoves him

against the wall.  The photos spill to the floor.

He bangs the man's head back against the wall.  The man

starts babbling in Japanese.

Ich, horrified, tries to pull Nick off him.

Nick bangs the snitches head against the wall again.  Ich

gets Nick away.  The man is terrified.

Ich bows to the man, apologizes in Japanese.

They continue speaking in Japanese.  They bow to one

another again.  Ich gives the man a glass of water, then

motions for him to sit down.

Nick, impatient, starts for the guy again.  Ich stops him.

The snitch holds up one of the photos, and starts

babbling.

INT.  SEIBU DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

CLOSE ON A SALESGIRL behind the cosmetic counter.  She is

wearing the store uniform:  blue and white dress and white

gloves.  A doll.  We shouldn't recognize her at first.

Then --

INSERT A PHOTO

one of Kobo's porno pics.  It's the same face.

REVEAL NICK

holding the photo, standing in the crowded store.  Ich is

beside him.

Ich glances back at the man in the Hawaiian shirt standing

by the door.  The man nods.

They watch the girl help a customer choose an eyeliner.

INT.  SOBA RESTAURANT - DAY

NICK

is struggling with his chopsticks and bowl of noodles.

From O.S. A LOUD SLURPING SOUND.  The sound stops, then

starts again.  Nick can't eat.  He sets his bowl down and

looks over at

ICH

slurping his noodles.  It is considered polite to slurp

soba noodles as loud as possible.

Ich stops.  Looks at Nick, then resumes his slurping.

They're sitting by the window across from the Seibu

department store watching the entrance.

Nick nods.  Picks up his bowl.  Again the LOUD slurping

off screen.  Nick starts to eat the noodles.  He can't

continue with Ich slurping.  He sets the bowl down.

Ich grins, resumes slurping and we --

EXT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - SIX P.M.

The SALESGIRLS are lined up at the door bowing and

thanking the last customers for shopping in their store.

Standard practice.

The GIRL whom Nick and Ich have been watching comes out

wearing her uniform and heads down the street.

NICK AND ICH

waiting in the restaurant, get up to follow.

THE GIRL

stepping out of the laundry carrying her wash.  She walks

past a doorway where...

NICK is standing.

ICH now walks past his partner picking up the tail.  No

acknowledgement between them.

EXT.  STREET CAR STATION

There are dozens of street cars waiting to pull out.  The

girl is on one of them.  Ich has lost her.  Nick and Ich

hurry from car to car.

Nick hurries toward another car to check it out.

They spot the girl sitting in the window of one of the

street cars, about to turn onto the main street.

The two cops race for the car.  Nick leaps on.  Ich is a

few steps behind.  Nick sticks out his hand, pulls Ich up.

They stand looking at one another, both breathing hard,

both out of shape.

NIGHTCLUB DISTRICT - NIGHT

Narrow streets with exploding neon ideograph signs as far

as the eye can see.

We spot our girl hurrying down the street.  Nick, a half

block behind, is bumping into people, trying not to lose

her.

She crosses the street and Ich picks her up.  Nick drops

off.

ON A SIDE STREET

around the corner the girl disappears into a three story

apartment building above an electronics store.

EXT.  GIRL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

We're watching our girl inside her apartment.  She flips

off the TV and climbs into bed.

A STOREROOM - NIGHT

We've been watching the girl from a window across the

street.  It's a storeroom full of shipping crates, not

much else.  Ich is sitting on the floor, legs crossed,

back erect, watching Nick.  Nick glances over.  Ich

continues to watch him.  Nick returns to the window.

Nick keeps looking out the window.

Pause.

Nick looks over at Ich.  Ich is looking away.  Nick looks

out the window, then back at his partner.

The girl switches off her light across the street.

THE STOREROOM - MORNING

Ich is sleeping on his back looking like a grounded whale.

Nick, exhausted, is sitting by the window his head resting

against the sill.

NICK'S POV OF THE STREET

as the girl, dressed in her store uniform, comes out of

the apartment and heads for work.

NICK

nudges the sleeping Ich with his foot.  Ich opens his

eyes.

Ich is groggy, nonplused.

INT.  HALLWAY - GIRL'S APARTMENT BUILDING

Ich, tucking in his shirt, comes down the hall to see --

Nick, on his knees, examining the lock on the girl's

apartment door.  He slides his NYPD card into the jam and

lightly raps the knob plate.

Nick uses his sleeve to wipe prints off the knob and jam.

The door swings open.  Nick walks in.

INT.  GIRL'S APARTMENT

A cheesebox with a few vintage pieces of American deco

furniture.

Ich, very uptight, stands at the door while Nick goes over

the place.

Nick opens the closet.  It's packed with expensive

dresses, pants, sweaters...

Nick goes through her chest of drawers:  on the top, a lot

of high quality lingerie.

INSERT PHOTO:  The girl and Kobo posing in a vintage

Corvette.

Nick replaces the picture, and carefully rearranges the

drawer so it appears untouched.  He pulls open another

drawer.  Then another.  Under the jeans and Mickey Mouse

T-shirts, he finds:

A BANK STACK OF U.S. CURRENCY

in hundreds.  The bottom of the drawer is lined with

stacks.  Nick holds them up for Ich to see.

Ich, shocked, tries to play it cool.

Nick shoves the drawer shut.

THE GIRL - DUSK - TWO DAYS LATER

The GIRL buys fruit from a stand as NICK watches from one

end of the block; ICH, listening to his transistor radio,

waits at the other.

THE GIRL

suddenly turns and finds herself facing

NICK

a few yards away.   Nick smiles, then walks into the

store, hoping he hasn't been made.

EXT.  GIRL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rain pours down.

INT.  STOREROOM - NIGHT

Nick, leaning against the wall, watches the girl's

apartment across the street.  The girl walks in, turns on

her light, then disappears into the bathroom.

Ich walks in, exhausted, soaked to the skin.  He tosses

his cap in the corner.  Struck out again.

A KNOCK at the door.

Ich opens the door.  Joyce, dressed for work, is carrying

two odons (box dinners).  Joyce and Ich exchange greetings

in Japanese.

Nick shrugs.

Joyce peeks out the window.  The girl is getting

undressed.

Ich opens one of the box dinners and sets it on the ledge

in front of Nick.

Joyce hands Ich a flask of hot sake in tinfoil.

Nick grabs the flask.  Dumps it out the window.

Nick tosses a few thousand yen on the table.  Then,

spotting something out the window.

Nick grabs his coat and goes out the door.  Joyce slips

Ich another flask of sake.

EXT.  STREET - GINZA DISTRICT - NIGHT

It's our GIRL standing alone on the corner of the street

but you wouldn't know it at first.  She's wearing tight

leather pants, red leather jacket, earrings, bright red

lipstick, and she's dumped the pony-tail, allowing her

hair to fall to her waist.

NICK AND ICH

watching in a doorway down the block.  Nick's shivering,

his hands thrust in his army surplus jacket.  Ich doesn't

mind the cold.  He's had his sake.

THREE BOSOZOKU

riding their bikes come around the corner drive past her,

then circle back.

One of the RIDERS stops to talk to her, then drives off.

She hurries off in the opposite direction.

A SUBWAY STATION

The girl waits until the last minute, then after glancing

back, steps in the car.  The train pulls out.  The cars

race past until we see --

Nick and Ich standing inside of the last car.  It

disappears into the tunnel.

THE SHINZOA DISTRICT - NIGHT

The girl, on the move, pushing through the crowd.  Drop

back to find Ich twenty yards behind.  She crosses the

street.  Nick, pretending to be looking in a store window,

picks her up.

AROUND THE CORNER

Nick has lost her.  It's a cul de sac with a dozen

buildings.  He's standing in the middle of the street.

Ich catches up to him.

Nick does a double-take.

EXT.  STREET - SHINZOA DISTRICT - NIGHT - LATER

NICK

dropping another cigarette butt to the ground.  There's a

small pile at his feet.  He's leaning against the wall

watching one end of the block.  TRACK over to reveal Ich,

his back to Nick's, watching the other end.

Ich glances back at Nick.  Nick ignores him.  Ich turns

back.

Nick turns to see the GIRL walk out of a bath house.

She's wearing her ponytail again, with a black dress.  She

climbs into a taxi.

EXT.  PINK SARON HOSTESS CLUB - NIGHT

The girl climbs out of the taxi and goes inside.

Nick and Ich are watching from across the street.

INT.  HOSTESS CLUB

Packed with Salarymen from the nearby brewery and

hostesses in silk dresses selling cheap champagne at

expensive prices.

NICK AND ICH

Walk in.  Everything seems normal.

The BOUNCER in a white tux, stops them.  This is not a

place frequented by Gaiijin.

Ich beseeches the Bouncer to let his good friend in,

promising that his friend will spend lots of money.

Nick, thinking he's in, takes a step forward.  The Bouncer

shoves him back.

He bats his hands away.  Ich grabs Nick by the shoulders,

preventing a fight.

Nick, unsure, turns to go, but before he does:

Nick hesitates, he's not so sure, then shoves the door

open.

EXT.  HOSTESS CLUB

Nick waiting under the pink neon sign.

INT.  HOSTESS CLUB - LATER

Ich is sitting at the crowded bar.  A HOSTESS has her arm

around his neck.  He checks out the room, searching for

the girl.  He notices two THUGS standing outside a sliding

door.  Ich finishes his drink.

Ich relents.  Then, spotting something across the room:

WHAT HE SEES:  A rice paper door slides open, momentarily

revealing a DOZEN men with close cropped hair sitting on

tatami mats, playing poker.  Some have their coats off,

revealing arms covered with tattoos.  Yakuza.

A hostess, serving drinks, steps but leaving the door

partially open.

The hostess slides the door open to the adjacent room, but

Ich CANNOT see inside.  She slides it shut.

Ich's hostess wants him to buy another drink, but Ich

shakes his head, gets to his feet, and pretending to be

drunk, stumbles toward the sliding doors.

Ich bumps into a table; slaps a stranger on the shoulder;

then starts singing along with Frank Sinatra on the

stereo.  He's a little too loud, a little off key.

The bodyguards eye Ich suspiciously.  He stumbles past

them, then grabs the sliding door and yanks it open.

INSIDE THE ROOM

A low table.  Kobo is at one end.  An older,

distinguished, sliver-haired man in his seventies whom we

will come to know as SUGAI is at the other.  Ich can't

believe his eyes:  Sugai is the head of the largest Yakuza

syndicate in Japan.

A half dozen LIEUTENANTS sit on either side of the table.

Half are older, dressed in conservative suits; the other

half are younger wearing $700 Issy Miyake jackets.

SUGAI AND KOBO

are having a heated discussion.  The GIRL Ich and Nick

have been following walks over to Kobo and sits beside

him.  This makes Sugai even more irate.  He's on his feet,

red faced and screaming.

FOUR GUARDS

seeing Ich, pull out their Beretta's.  Two more grab him

and fling him head first against the wall.

The bodyguards hurry him towards the door.

EXT.  HOSTESS CLUB

Nick checks his watch, it's been an hour - where the hell

is Ich?

Ich comes stumbling up the steps, still affecting his

drunken, pigeon-toed walk.  Nick, of course, thinks Ich

has gotten drunk again.  Two of the bodyguards are

watching from inside.

Ich, knowing they're being watched, grabs Nick by the

sleeve and drags him off still pretending to be drunk.

No longer fearing he's being watched, Ich abruptly stops

his affected walk, and sounding very sober --

ACROSS THE STREET

Ich is dialing on the police call box as he fills Nick in

on Sugai.

Ich quickly speaks on the police phone, then hangs up,

pleased with himself.

Ich realizes it's better to drop it.

THE HOSTESS CLUB - MINUTES LATER

Drunken Salarymen spill out the door.

ICH AND NICK

are standing across the street waiting for the cops to

arrive.

Nick freezes.

THE GIRL

they've been following steps out and lights a cigarette.

TIME SLOWS.  She looks up and spots the two men through

the traffic.  Nick turns away, afraid he's been made.

When he looks back, she's gone back inside.

Nick races across the street toward the club.  Horns

BLARE.

IN FRONT OF THE CLUB

Nick reaches the curb just as the front doors to the club

BURST OPEN.  He's too late.  Three bodyguards burst out,

checking the street.  A red and white Debonnaire pulls up.

Sugai, surrounded by a half-dozen additional bodyguards,

comes out and slips into the car.  It tears off down the

street.

SIRENS AND POLICE CARS

from either end of the street peel around the corner.

It's a madhouse.  The remaining lieutenants and bodyguards

fan out, trying to elude arrest.

Nick hurries down the steps.

INSIDE THE CLUB

The patrons are still in place, but the two side rooms are

empty.

Nick spots KOBO going out the rear entrance.  He starts

after him but is confronted by the bouncer who stopped him

earlier.  Nick connects to the guy's jaw before his

adversary can raise his hands.  The bouncer staggers back.

Nick flies out the rear door.

EXT.  FRONT OF CLUB - NIGHT

Several lieutenants and bodyguards toss their guns --

possession is a felony in Japan -- as the police close in.

INT.  HOSTESS CLUB - NIGHT

Ich hurries in, but Nick's long gone.

EXT.  REAR OF HOSTESS CLUB - NEARBY STREETS - NIGHT

SILENCE.  The narrow streets are deserted.  Nick slowly

makes his way down the street.  The SOUND of a GUNSHOT.

Nick ducks for cover -- it's a car BACKFIRING.  He

continues on.

Nick's POV of a woman giving a man a blow-job in a narrow

alley.  The man's face is hidden by the shadow.

Nick continues on.

Nick turns back to see Kobo as he steps into the light.

Kobo tosses a handful of change at Nick.

The girl takes off down the block.

From across the street, a dozen bodyguards appear from

various doorways and alleys.

Kobo traces his finger across the spot where he cut Nick

in New York.

Nick glances at the guards, then back at Kobo.  He is

unarmed.  To make a move would be suicide.  More POLICE

SIRENS in the b.g. closing in.

Kobo takes a step forward.  His face is inches from

Nick's.

Nick doesn't budge.

A LONG BEAT, then... Nick turns and slowly walk off.

After a dozen yards Nick looks back.

The street is empty, except for a street sweeper pushing

his wet broom down the block.

EXT.  HOSTESS CLUB - NIGHT

A half dozen bodyguards are being frisked, then shoved

into police cars.

Ohashi is talking to the enraged nightclub owner.  Nick

steps up to him.  Ich hurries over.

Ohashi doesn't say a word, hands Nick a document.

Ohashi directs Nick's attention across the street where a

SURVEILLANCE VAN is parked.  The rear doors are open

revealing a van full of surveillance equipment and cops.

Ich bows as Ohashi walks off.

Ohashi ignores him, continues walking toward his waiting

car.

Ohashi slips into his car.  Nick storms up to the car and

slams his fist on the window.

Ohashi faces straight ahead, ignoring Nick.  Nick takes

the extradition paper and spikes it on the car antenna.

Ich grabs Nick by his arm, pulling him back from the car.

The car pulls away.

Nick whirls, and before he realizes what he's doing,

punches Ich below his left eye.  Ich stumbles back over

the curb and lands on his ass.

Nick, beside himself with frustration, watches Ohashi's

car disappear down the block.

ON ICH

looking up at

NICK

who walks off without looking back at his partner.

INT.  ICH'S BATHROOM - SEVERAL HOURS LATER

Nick, standing beside the tub, dumps a pail of hot water

over his head, rinsing himself off.  He grabs a towel and

walks out of the room.

INT.  ICH'S APARTMENT

Ich, holding an ice pack to his face, is lying on a tatami

mat against the wall looking up at the ceiling.  An open

bottle of Seagrams beside him.

Nick stretches out on another tatami on the opposite side

of the room and looks up at the ceiling, too.

Nothing from Ich.

Nick gets up and goes to the closet.  He slides open the

door.  All of his and Charlie's clothes have been neatly

hung up.

He shoves Charlie's jacket aside.  Something's wrong with

the way it hangs.  He pulls the jacket out, runs his hand

over the coat, feeling something heavy in the lining.

Nick rips the lining open.  Charlie's .32 Beretta and a

spare clip tumble out.

Ich takes a drink from his bottle.

Nick picks up the liquor cap which rolled across the

floor.  He tosses it to Ich.  Ich reaches for it, but

misses.

Nick walks out shutting the door behind him.  Stay on Ich

watching the door, then --

EXT.  LAS VEGAS BAR - CLOSING TIME

The last customers find their way to the street, some with

a little encouragement from a BOUNCER.

Joyce steps out.  Nick comes up to her.

Joyce takes off down the street.  Nick watches her for a

beat.

INT.  KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

On the stage, a young professional looking man is singing

along to "SUMMERTIME" blasting from the stereo.  The

Japanese way of letting it all hang out.

We find Joyce and Nick at a corner table having a drink.

Joyce finishes her drink, sets it down.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

The neon flickers on the rain slicked pavement.  Nick and

Joyce walk down the deserted street.  She's carrying an

umbrella.

Nick shrugs, everyone's got a reason.

Nick looks over for the first time.

Pause.

Nick looks surprised.

Before Nick can respond, something catches his eye:  What

he sees --

A MAN

partially shadowed, standing in the alley.

Nick grabs his gun.  The man steps out zipping up his

trousers.  It's a drunken Salaryman.  Nick lowers his gun.

The Salaryman staggers down the street singing to himself.

EXT.  JOYCE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

A three story modern building on a quiet street.  She's

searching for her keys.

Joyce smiles, heads inside.

INT.  ICH'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Ich is sleeping.

Nick slips into his leather motorcycle jacket.  He drops

Charlie's gun into his pocket.  He glances down at Ich,

seeing if he's awake.  He's not.  Nick walks out.

Ich opens his eyes.  He's been awake the whole time.

THE YANAKA CEMETERY - DAY

Ich, wearing a blue suit, is pouring water over a simple

stone with a wooden dipper.  Next, he places incense in a

holder and folds his hands in prayer.

The photo on the stone is of a young man wearing a school

uniform.  Ich's son.

A BULLET TRAIN - DAY

It's bull's-eye nose cone scuds across the endless rice

paddies west of Tokyo.  Women in straw hats stand in the

knee deep water pruning the rice by hand.  Old Japan

rubbing shoulders with the new.

INT.  TRAIN - DAY

CLOSE ON NICK looking out the window as the countryside

shoots past at 140 mph.  From O.S. several children

chanting:  "Harrow, Harrow."

Nick looks over to see three uniformed school children

thrusting their notebooks and pens at him.

JOYCE

is sitting across from Nick.

She does, but the kids insist.

Nick, reluctantly signs.  Joyce takes one of the kid's

notebooks before passing it back.

Joyce smiles, surprised at his choice.  Then, she looks up

shocked to see --

ICH

carrying a gift wrapped package under his arm.  He's

wearing his hat, blue suit and tie.

Ich sits ACROSS the aisle from Nick and Joyce.  He doesn't

say a word.  Faces straight ahead.

Nick looks at Joyce, then back at Ich.

Still nothing from Ich.

Nick nods, looks back out the window.  He'll never

understand this country.  He looks back to see --

Joyce looking annoyed at him.  Nick gets the message.

Ich still won't acknowledge Nick.

EXT.  BULLET TRAIN

The Bullet Train disappearing into the foothills.

EXT.  BEPPU - DAWN

Plumes of white steam spindle skyward from every street

corner.  If you didn't know it was steam, you'd think the

city was on fire.  Beppu is a resort famous for it's

geothermal baths.

EXT.  SUGAI'S HOUSE

The only traditional house we'll see in our story.  It's

surrounded by a pool of blood red steaming water from the

hot springs.

AT THE GATE

CLOSE ON A 1000 yen bill as it is dropped on the ground.

A pair of dice rolls over it.  A handful of GUARDS wearing

suits and ties are playing craps.

OUTSIDE THE GATE

Ich is sitting on the ground leaning against the wall,

sound asleep.  Nick is standing nearby.  He checks his

watch.  Tired of waiting, he walks over to --

JOYCE

reading the Manichi Daily.

The phone rings inside the gate.  A guard picks it up.

The guard hangs up, calls out to Joyce.  Joyce responds in

Japanese.  The guard opens the gate.

INT.  A ROOM IN SUGAI'S HOUSE

A vast, austere, traditional room with sliding rice paper

doors and tatami mats on the floor.

Ich and Joyce, drinking tea, are sitting with their feet

beneath them in the traditional manor.

Nick, smoking, is in a semi-sprawl; using his tea cup as

an ashtray.

A LIEUTENANT enters.  He says something and beckons.  They

all rise.  He says something else.

INT.  ANOTHER ROOM - SUGAI'S HOUSE

Nick enters, ducking his head in the low doorway.  the

shoji slides shut behind him.

The furnishings are minimal but elegant.  There's a

butsudan, a tokonoma, and a low, long table in the middle

of the room.  No chairs.  Nick sits on the floor.

A door slides open at the far end of the room.  Sugai,

wearing a kimono over western style suit, walks in.  Nick

stands up to shake his hand.  Sugai ignores it, and sits

in the traditional position:  feet tucked beneath him.

He tosses him a palm sized bundle.  Nick catches it.

Inside, are brand new greenbacks:  hundreds.

He sets it down.

Nick hesitates, then picks it up again.  He runs his

fingers over the face of the bill and snaps the paper.

Sugai fills a cup of tea for Nick and hands it to him.

Sugai hands it to him anyway.

Sugai sets a plastic wrapped object on a table before

Nick.  Nick recognizes it from the restaurant massacre in

New York.

CLOSE UP:  Nick's fingers tear at the plastic.  A block of

black iridescent polymer.  The negative image of a $100.00

bill.  A printing plate.

Sugai takes the plate back.

Nick looks at a child playing near one of the hot pools in

Sugai's garden.

Nick laughs at Sugai's audaciousness.

Sugai cools.  Without a word he gets to his feet and

starts toward the door.

ON SUGAI

still walking with his back to Nick.

Sugai turns to see Nick, across the room, pointing the

Beretta at his head.

INT.  ROOM - SUGAI'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

The room where Ich and Joyce are waiting.  Sugai enters.

Their surprise turns to shock when they see Nick behind

him holding a gun to the old man's head.

She hasn't moved a muscle.

INT SUGAI'S HOUSE - ENTRANCE WAY

Sugai watches calmly as Nick, Ich, and Joyce put their

shoes on.  Nick keeps the gun on him.

EXT.  SUGAI'S COURTYARD

Nick steps out of the house.  He now has one end of a wire

coat hanger loosely wrapped around Sugai's neck, the other

end around his wrist.  His gun is pressed just beneath

Sugai's ear.  If nick gets shot, so does Sugai.

A handful of guards stand in the courtyard, one is

polishing Sugai's Debonnaire car.  They spot Nick and

Sugai coming, and immediately pull their guns.

Sugai explains to his lieutenants.  They stand helpless as

Nick walks Sugai toward the car.

Ich takes the keys from the man polishing the car.  He

gets inside.  Joyce hurries in bedside him.

Nick slides Sugai in the back seat, carefully reaches over

and shuts the door.

Joyce, furious at Nick, starts the car, gets behind the

wheel.  Ich gets in on the other side.

She spins the car around.  The gate opens.  They tear off.

EXT.  STREET - BEPPU - DAY

The car bursts through the funnels of steam from the hot-

springs beneath the street.  It tears down the narrow

block dodging traffic.  Joyce is concentrating hard on the

road.

Nothing from Ich.  He's still apoplectic.

EXT.  KUDAN LOVE HOTEL - BEPPU

A four story concrete hotel, strictly for making love.

"Love Hotels" exist all over Japan.  Each have various

themes:  western, fifties drive in, Star Wars, etc., each

complete with music and lighting effects.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM

Western style.  Plastic five foot cacti in front of the

western vista on the walls.  A hitching post at the head

of the bed.  Cowboy hats and boots at the other end.

Sugai hangs up the phone and turns to Nick and Joyce who

are sitting nearby.  Ich hangs up the extension.

Ich nods, confirming that what Sugai says is true.

Ich, knowing Sugai is right, looks at Nick.  Nick flips

Ich the gun.

Ich checks to make sure the gun is loaded, then watches as

Nick escorts Joyce out of the room.

A HOTEL ROOM ACROSS THE HALL

Fifties theme.  The front end of a pink chevy curves

around the bed.  A "Drive-In" movie screen along one wall.

Nick is dropping change into the vintage Wurlitzer.  Joyce

steps in, leaving the door open.

Nick doesn't respond.

That pushes her over the line.

She moves toward him, enraged.  Nick grabs her arm.

He won't.

He grips her tighter.

THE ROOM - LATER

Nick and Joyce, only partially undressed, are making love

on the floor.  The Drifters singing "Under The Boardwalk"

can be heard on the Wurlitzer.  The fifties decor, the

music, it's all pretty incongruous.

EXT.  LOVE HOTEL - DAWN

Nick is putting Joyce in a taxi.  He shuts the door.

He nods.  The cab drives off.  Nick watches her taxi until

it is out of sight, around a corner, then heads inside.

NICK - LATER

walking into Sugai's room.  Sugai's asleep on the bed.

Ich is vigilantly sitting awake in the corner, the gun

resting on the table in front of him.

EXT.  LOVE HOTEL - LATER

Quiet.  The wind twirls a discarded newspaper in the

parking lot.

INSIDE THE LOVE HOTEL - HALLWAY

A YOUNG GIGGLING COUPLE step out of a door, arm in arm,

and disappear down the hall.  STAR WARS MUSIC from one

room.  HAWAIIAN MUSIC from another.

THE CAMERA FINDS the closed elevator door.  It opens, Kobo

steps out, followed by a half-dozen more men all carrying

Sig-Saur assault rifles -- very heavy artillery.

SUGAI

wearing his hat and coat is sitting on the couch, his back

to us, facing out the window.

Drop down to --

THE ROOM BENEATH HIM

A couple are making love in the Hawaiian theme room.

The door burst open.  Two men, cradling Sig-Saur rifles in

their arms, step in.  They aim at the ceiling, blasting

into Sugai's room above.

THE GIRL

starts screaming.  The men ignore her and continue to pump

bullets into the ceiling.

KOBO AND HIS MEN

stop in front of every door long enough to blast into the

room.  They make their way down the hall.

A naked man steps into the hallway and is matter-of-factly

gunned down.

Kobo and his men stop in front of Sugai's room.

INT.  SUGAI'S ROOM

Sugai, wearing his hat, is slumped down on the couch which

has been splintered by the bullets from below.

OUTSIDE THE ROOM

Kobo signals the men.  All six open-up through the door.

INSIDE THE ROOM

The door, what's left of it, is kicked open.  The six men

step in, shooting in all directions:  into the bathroom

door, into the closet... Windows shatter, mirrors fall,

total destruction.  They stop.  SILENCE.

Kobo walks up to Sugai who is slumped on the couch.  He

lifts up his hat.  It's a cowboy mannequin wearing Sugai's

clothes.

THE ELEVATOR DOOR

opens.  A DOZEN of Sugai's men carrying machine pistols

come out.

THE OUTSIDE BALCONY

Nick and Ich lie on their bellies, guns out.

INSIDE THE ROOM

Kobo's men turn.  Sugai's men open-up.  Three of Kobo's

hitters go down.  The others try to flee into the

adjoining room.

Kobo goes for the balcony.

THE BALCONY

as Kobo steps out.  He steps right into --

NICK

who slams the side of Kobo's head with the butt of his

gun.

THE ROOM

Nick and Ich drag Kobo in by his jacket collar.  Sugai,

very much alive, walks in from the hallway.  Nothing is

said.  Sugai looks at Kobo for a long beat, then walks

out.

INT.  SUGAI'S HOUSE - DAY

KOBO

standing alone in the middle of a tatami room.  His face

is badly beaten.  His hands are bound.  Two guards stand

near the wall.  Nick and Ich stand across the room.

SUGAI

wearing a western suit, is asking Kobo questions in

Japanese.  Sugai barks at him again.  Kobo refuses to

answer.  Sugai pulls up a shuto -- an 18 inch knife --

from it's scabbard.

Nothing from Kobo.

The guards walk over and turn Kobo around.  His back is to

Sugai.  Sugai runs the sword across the nape of Kobo's

neck drawing blood.  The guards tighten their grip on

Kobo's arms.

NICK

can't believe Sugai's going to kill him.  Nick starts to

get up, Ich stops him.

Kobo realizes Sugai isn't just threatening him.

THE ROOM - LATER

Kobo is led back into the room by two guards.  The guards

shove him down to the floor.  His hands are still bound.

Nick walks over and stands above him.  He doesn't say a

word.  Just stands above him.  Then, Nick pulls spare

change from his pocket and slowly drops the coins, one by

one, in front of Kobo's face, like Kobo did to him.  He

walks away.

Sugai steps in.

A door opens at the far end of the room.  It's Kobo's

girlfriend, the one Nick and Ich had been following.

She starts toward Kobo; a lieutenant intercepts her.

ON ICH

realizing she's Sugai's daughter.

Sugai turns away and picks up the sword.  The guards

clutch Kobo.  Sugai's going to kill Kobo after all.

The girl screams at him to stop.  Sugai's oblivious.

There's a long pause.  Then, something unusual happens.

Sugai tells the lieutenant to unfasten Kobo's wrist.  When

he does, Sugai hands Kobo the sword and demands that he

cut off his finger.

This is Yubitsume:  the ritual act within the Yakuza of

slicing the joint of the little finger to atone for a

mistake.

Kobo, not believing in this ancient tradition, refuses.

Sugai nods to a guard who places Kobo's finger on the

table.

KOBO

stares defiantly at Sugai.  He doesn't even wince as the

blade slices off his finger.  The guard hands Sugai the

finger in a handkerchief.

HOLD on Nick then --

EXT.  TRAIN - DAY

as it bursts out of a tunnel on it's way to Tokyo.

INT.  TRAIN - DAY

Kobo is sitting by the window, his hands cuffed in front

of him.  Another pair of cuffs chain him to the arm rest.

Nick pours a drink from an airline-sized bottle of Scotch.

He holds it out to... Ich.  It's his first drink in a

week.

They clink glasses.  Ich drinks it down.

Ich slows down.

Ich gets up.

He heads for the bar car, leaving Kobo and Nick alone.

Kobo looks out the window at the people working the rice

paddies, then back down the aisle at the Salarymen in

their identical suits, then at the women separated from

them.

Nick isn't paying much attention.

A raucous SALARYMAN comes down the aisle, singing an Enka,

swaying with the train, bumping into seats.  A common

enough sight and ignored by the rest of the passengers.

The Salaryman stumbles and falls across Nick's lap.

The Salaryman bows deep.  Nick ignores it.  The man moves

on.  Kobo looks out the window, the train begins to SLOW

as it approaches the next station.

Nick looks up to see Kobo calmly fingering a lock of blond

hair tied with black ribbon.  Joyce's ribbon.  Joyce's

hair.

Nick looks down the car.  The drunk Salaryman who stumbled

over Nick is quite sober.  He made the hand-off to Kobo.

Kobo holds out his wrists.  Nick hesitates.

Nick, reluctantly, unlocks both sets of cuffs.  The train

pulls into the station.

Kobo gets up, starts down the aisle.

Kobo gets off the train.

NICK

follows him to the door.

THE STATION

Kobo get into a waiting Jaguar.  Four guards nearby.

INSIDE THE TRAIN

Nick runs down the length of the car trying to keep the

Jaguar in sight as the train pulls out... the car is gone.

NICK

bursts into the packed bar car.

Everyone turns around.  No Ich.

EXT.  TRAIN - TRAIN STATION - TOKYO

It slows into the station.

INT.  TRAIN

Nick shoves past the passengers lined up in the vestibule,

ignoring a conductor's angry shouts.

INT.  TERMINAL - MOMENTS LATER

The train stops.  Nick flies out and starts running,

dodging the crowd.

Three uniformed policemen, including Ohashi's assistant,

hurry toward him; they're dismayed to find that Kobo is

gone.

Instead of offering him help, the policemen grab him and

slap a pair of handcuffs on Nick's wrists.

HOLDING CELL - TOKYO POLICE STATION

Nick, waiting alone in the cell.  It's been hours.  A door

at the end of the hall opens.

Ohashi stops in front of his cell.

Ohashi keeps walking.

The LOUD clank of metal on metal.  Ohashi's gone.

HOLD on Nick, his fingers squeezing the bars in rage,

then --

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Flood rice paddies stretch to the distance on either side

of the road.  We PAN over to Kobo at a phone kiosk outside

a gas station.

INT.  SUGAI'S HOUSE - AT THAT MOMENT

Kobo's girl, Sugai's daughter, hangs up the phone.  She's

been on the other end of the line.

INT.  SUGAI'S ROOM

The door swings open.  Sugai is sitting on the floor.  The

girl is carrying a tray of tea.  Beneath the tray, we spot

something else -- the butt of a short-bladed tanto.

EXT.  NARITA AIRPORT - TOKYO - DAY

A police car rolls through the service gate.  We see Nick

inside the car along with two police guards.

INT.  HOLDING ROOM - NARITA AIRPORT

A white room.  No chairs.  Jet engines can be HEARD

through the walls.  Nick is sitting on the floor,

defeated.  He doesn't look up when he hears someone enter.

Nick looks up.  Ich is in uniform.  A revolver and batton

hang from his white web gear.  His undershirt bulges

through his khaki shirt.  He looks ridiculous.  Nick has

never seen a more beautiful sight.

INT.  POLICE CAR

Ich is driving.  Nick is seated behind a cage in the back

seat.  His hands are cuffed.  Ich is driving through the

freight area towards a perimeter guard.

Ich nods.

EXT.  AT THE GATE - TOKYO AIRPORT

The car slows.  Ich speaks rapidly to the guard showing

him his papers.  The guard takes a good hard look at Nick.

Time stands still... He waves them through.  Nick can

breath again.

Ich is silent for a moment.  He hands Nick's Beretta back

through the partition.  So it goes.

Nick looks for Ich's eyes in the rearview mirror.  The

little cop keeps driving, his eyes on the road.

EXT.  STREET - BEPUKU - DAY

Nick and Ich are standing outside their car.  The Police

radio crackles from inside.

WHAT THEY SEE:

A large crowd gathered outside of Sugai's estate.  Police

have cordoned off the area.  An empty ambulance is parked

out front with various other cars:  Debonnaire's,

Cadillac's... A boy in shorts is endlessly bouncing a ball

against the compound wall.  Whatever happened is long

over.

Ich flips off the radio.

EXT.  ROAD - DUSK

The police car streaks across endless fields.

INSIDE THE CAR

Nick is at the wheel.  He rubs the sleep from his eyes.

Ich is slumped down in the seat watching the road.

Ich pulls out a cigarette.  Nick lights it for him.

Ich looks up surprised.

Ich glances over at Nick, then back at the road.

Nicks rubs out his cigarette and presses down on the

accelerator.

EXT.  KOBO'S HIDEOUT - DAWN

A small, contemporary house perched on a dry piece of

land.  A paved road, lined with dense foliage runs on a

berm between the flooded rice paddies.

ON NICK AND ICH

sitting in the car watching from a hillside turnoff.

There's no easy way in.

Ich hands Charlie his shuto -- an 18 inch long knife.

Nick tucks the shuto inside his jacket.

Nick opens up his door and climbs out.

THE DIRT ROAD

leading to the house lined with foliage.  The rice paddies

on either side.

NICK AND ICH

making their way through the waist high water.

TWO WORKERS

with their hoes make their way into the water.  They don't

see our cops.

OUR COPS

making their way along the edge of the road.  The SOUND of

a motorcycle coming.

THE MOTORCYCLE RIDER

slows and drops a gear as he turns off the main road and

onto the dirt berm toward the house.  He's one of Kobo's

Bosozoku -- a long way from the streets of Tokyo.

The rider comes around the bend to see --

A COP

standing in a uniform.  Ich.  For a moment he doesn't know

what to do.  Then, he draws a pistol from his belt and

accelerates toward Ich.

ICH

stands his ground as the bike closes in.  The biker takes

aim.

Ich drops off to the side as --

NICK

rises from a ditch and swings a hoe at the rider as he

passes, catching the man across the face.  The rider drops

like a swatted fly.  The biker's momentum carries it a few

yards before it falls and skids to a halt.

Nick hurries to the bike.

Ich drags the biker off the road, then catches up to his

partner.

NICK AND ICH

raise the heavy bike.  Nick mounts.  He takes the riders

helmet and goggles from Ich, and puts them on.

Nick doesn't know exactly.  He taps the bike into gear, it

torques like a mule.  There's a lot more juice here

than he's used to.

Nick fishtails for a minute, then gets the hang of it.

Ich heads off taking another route.

INT.  HOUSE

KOBO AND SUGAI'S DAUGHTER

are putting the last of their belongings into a suitcase.

She hands him the plate -- Sugai's plate.

Kobo kisses her as he slips it into his breast pocket.

The SOUND of a motorcycle approaching from outside.

EXT.  THE HOUSE

Kobo steps out, and not recognizing Nick, raises his hand

to greet what he thinks is one of his men.

ON NICK

bearing down on Kobo.

ON KOBO

as Nick keeps coming.  He is unable to see clearly until

Nick is almost on top of him.

NICK

dumps the bike at the foot of the stairs and leaps on

Kobo.

Nick and Kobo roll off the narrow porch.  Nick breaks

free.  He isn't fighting fair this time.  He slams his

foot into Kobo's face and ribs.  Kobo tries to get up, but

Nick knees him in the chin.

A woman cries out in Japanese.  Nick turns to see

JOYCE

standing at the top of the steps.  A biker is pressing the

muzzle of a Sig-Saur assault rifle on her.  Kobo's girl is

beside them holding a small pistol.

KOBO

gets to his feet.  The biker tosses Kobo the rifle.  Kobo

works the charging lever and holds the weapon at his side.

He has all the time in the world.

Kobo whirls and kicks Nick in the groin.  Nick falls to

his knees in agony.

Kobo towers above Nick as he did in the alley in New York.

Kobo walks off, his back to Nick.

He walks up to the steps to Joyce.

Nick struggles to get to his feet.  Kobo turns and faces

Nick at the foot of the steps.

ICH

appears behind Kobo and takes him down with an amazing

display of baton work that shows a lifetime of training.

He grabs the gun.  A biker bursts out of the door.  Ich

fires, hitting him in the thigh.  He drops his gun.

SUGAI'S DAUGHTER

grabs the gun.

NICK

tackles her, and wrestles the gun away.  She grabs for it.

Nick slugs her.

A GUN BLAST

Ich is hit in the back of his shoulder, falls onto the

porch.

KOBO

the shooter, is holding a pistol -- a Glock 17 automatic.

He fires at

NICK AND JOYCE

who scramble for cover.

KOBO

continues firing as he climbs onto a motorcycle.  He pops

the clutch and flies off down the road.  Nick fires after

him, but Kobo's gone.

Nick mounts the other bike, and puts the turbo charged

rocket into gear.

THE ROAD

Rain pours down as Kobo turns onto the main road.  He

opens up the throttle, and in less than a second, he's a

screaming dot in the distance.

NICK

comes around the same corner.  His bike fishtails and

slides out from under him.

FURTHER DOWN THE ROAD

Kobo tears past a police car.  The police car takes off

after him.

THE FOOTHILLS

A series of steep switchbacks traverse the steep, densely

forested hills.

Kobo's bike flies up the road.  The police car can't keep

up, begins losing ground.

THE POLICE CAR

going flat out, falling further and further behind.

Kobo's going to escape.

SUDDENLY

Nick, bent low, shoots past the cop car.  His left arm is

scraped and bloody.

ON KOBO

glancing back, to see Nick gaining on him.  Kobo's

pleased.  He gives it more gas.

NICK

pulling eight-five... ninety... one hundred.  The rain

stings his face.  It's hard to keep his eye open.

THE FOOTHILLS

Kobo leaning into one of the steep turns, climbing higher

and higher toward the clouds clinging to the top of the

peak.

NICK

is gaining on him.  He HEARS something coming up behind

him.

A BOSOZOKU

the one Ich shot in the leg, is closing fast on his tail.

ON NICK

as the biker draws even.

THE BIKER

pulls out his long knife and slashes at Nick's shoulder.

Nick drops back causing him to miss.  The biker drops

back.  Nick tries to speed up, but the biker sticks with

him.  He's a good rider, this boy.  Very, very good.

The biker moves in again, blade drawn.

NICK SEES

something the biker doesn't.

A TRUCK

coming around the corner.

NICK

swerves to avoid it at the last moment.  The biker reacts

too late and runs --

INTO THE GLEAMING

radiator of the two ton truck, and disappears beneath its

wheels.

ON KOBO

around the bend, glancing back.  Empty road.  He eases up

on the throttle -- a free man... He circles back only to

see

NICK

burst around the corner charging toward him at a hundred-

and-twenty miles per hour, in the driving rain.

KOBO

waits and waits.  Nick draws closer.  Then, Kobo tears off

back down the mountain, shooting past Nick.

Nick brakes... He slows down, and starts to turn, but the

wheels whirl on the gravel and the bike goes into a skid,

heading right for the edge of the road.

NICK'S MOTORCYCLE

flying over the edge of the road, and down the cliff.

THE EDGE OF THE ROAD

Nick, lying on his stomach at the edge of the cliff, his

arm is probably broken.

He tries to get up with a one arm push up.  It's hopeless.

His head falls into a puddle of water.

The WHINE of an approaching motorcycle.  Kobo has come

back for him.

Nick, in excruciating pain, struggles for his gun.

KOBO

bearing down on Nick.

NICK

struggling to get his gun.  Finally he does.  But it's

caked in mud.  If the barrel is stuffed it will explode.

Nick has to take the chance.

ON KOBO

Closer and closer.

NICK

aims as best he can and fires.  The mud caked gun explodes

in his hand.  Nick screams in agony.

KOBO

pulls his bike up inches in front of Nick's head.  Nick

seems to be bleeding everywhere:  his hand, his nose, his

mouth, the side of his head...

Kobo's face and neck is caked in blood from when Nick beat

him.

The rain pours down.

He picks up the gun.  Points it at Nick, squeezes the

trigger.

He tosses the gun in front of Nick's face.

The sound of approaching Police SIRENS.

Kobo swings the bike around, goes a hundred yards down the

road, then swings back.

Kobo guns the engine.  He gain speed... thirty, thirty-

five.

NICK

struggles to get up.  He can't.

KOBO

opening the throttle.

NICK

crawling a few inches, that's it.

KOBO

twenty yards away.

NICK

reaches into his coat and pulls Ich's 18 inch shuto out.

He rolls away at the last moment, slashing Kobo's ankle as

he races past.

KOBO

screams in pain.  He tries to stop too suddenly.  The bike

flips over.  Kobo flies into the air then hits the

pavement on his side and rolls a few yards down the road.

He stops on his back.  It's lucky he's alive.

The SOUND of fast approaching police SIRENS.

THE PLATE

has fallen out of Kobo's jacket.  It rests in the road,

halfway between the two men.

KOBO

crawls toward it on his belly.

NICK

mustering all his strength, struggles across the road on

all fours.

KOBO

crawling snake-like.

NICK

still moving, his arms and legs feel like lead.

KOBO'S FINGERS

as they reach for the plate.

NICK

grabs Kobo's wrist forcing him to drop the plate.  Nick

picks up a rock.  It looks as if he's going to smash

Kobo's head.  Instead, he brings it down on the plate,

shattering it in a half-dozen pieces.

Nick tosses the pieces in front of Kobo's face.

Nick, exhausted, slowly falls onto his back.  He looks

over at Kobo, their faces are inches apart.  Nick makes a

slashing mark with his index finger above his eyebrows.

The same gesture Kobo made to Nick through the two-way

mirror in New York.

Nick passes out.  His eyes shut... the screen...

BLACK SCREEN

The SOUND of three police cars screeching to a halt.  The

SOUNDS of the police SIRENS winding down.

The SIRENS get softer mixing with the SOUND of RINGING

phones, CLACKING typewriters, VOICES...

FADE IN:

INT.  TOKYO POLICE HEADQUARTERS

Fifty identical desks.  Fifty identically dressed men in

white shirts and ties work under fluorescent lights.

OHASHI

is at his desk studying a report.

Suddenly, the lights go out.  The fan's stop, so do the

electric typewriters.

Ohashi looks up to see --

ICH

walking toward him down the long aisle, his left arm is

bandaged, his right hand handcuffed to Kobo on crutches.

Ich silently leads the captured man down the long aisle to

Ohashi's desk.

ICH

stops in front of the desk and snaps to attention.

Ich salutes.

Ich uncuffs Kobo and steps aside to reveal --

NICK

standing at the far end of the room by the fuse box.  He's

also bandaged and on crutches.

Nick looks at Ohashi without saying a word, then flips the

main switch up.  The lights and fans start working.

He turns and walks out the door.

EXT.  POLICE COURTYARD - A FEW DAYS LATER

A small decoration ceremony.

ON ICHIRO

getting two golden suns pinned to the lapel of his dress

uniform.

In the far corner

NICK, JOYCE AND

Ichiro's wife, dressed in a formal kimono, watch the

ceremony.

INT.  JAPANESE RESTAURANT - TOKYO - DAY

Joyce and Nick are sitting alone at a table.  Nick's left

arm in in a sling.

Ich sits down with two fresh bowls of soba noodles.  Nick

hesitates.

Nick picks up his chopsticks with his good hand.  He

begins to slurp the noodles.

As Joyce refills all their cups we...

EXT.  EIGHT THREE PRECINCT - NEW YORK CITY - DAY

It's raining.  A sun shower.

INT.  POLICE STATION

Capt. Oliver is standing by the window watching the rain

pour down.

Reveal Nick sitting in front of Oliver's desk, his one arm

is still in a sling.  Nick gets to his feet.

Oliver turns to face Nick.  Nick just looks at him, then:

Oliver nods; he believes him.

INT.  SQUAD BAY - NIGHT

In contrast to the Japanese police station -- it's chaos.

Cops are in every imaginable kind of dress, trash cans

over flow, a handcuffed prisoner screams abuse to anyone

who will listen.

THE RAIDING PARTY

a dozen men in all, are donning flak jackets and

windbreakers with POLICE and TREASURY stenciled on the

back.

NICK

walks in with two heavy bullet proof vests slung over his

shoulder.  He squeezes past the raiding party to find

ICH

sitting at a desk, thumbing through a Frommer's guide to

New York City.  Nick drops one of the vests on the desk.

It lands like a ton of bricks.  Ich continues to read.

A Sergeant walks in.

The cops and treasury men, grabbing their gear, head for

the door.

Nick is struggling to get into his vest using one arm.

Ich stands up, shoves the guidebook in his back pocket.

He helps Nick fasten the strap in back.

Nick smiles, takes the Frommer's out of Ich's pocket and

tosses it into the trash.

Nick hands him a shotgun, takes another one off the rack

for himself.

We watch from behind as the two men head down the long

hallway toward the exit.

Nick opens the door at the far end of the hallway.  They

step out into the sunlit rain.

Before Nick can finish his line, the door SLAMS SHUT

behind them.

