Only one kind of blues...

And that consists between male and female.

- Son House

EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - EARLY DAWN

RAE is naked.

Wrapped around her shoulders is a loose-knit spread that

conceals her slender form. She is in her 20's: a strawberry

blond, with cinnamon freckles spotted across her pale skin.

She is beautiful without trying.

She stares at the distant trees. This is the South; the small

town of FISHERVILLE, TENNESSEE.

Soon Rae will be alone.

INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - EARLY MORNING

RONNIE is 25 years old. His hair is cropped in a military

issue buzz.

Rae's face is wet with tears as Ronnie gently makes love to

her. She touches his face and sobs like a child.

INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - LATER THAT MORNING

RONNIE is dressed in his National Guard fatigues, packing up

his gear.

Rae is now wearing a short jeans skirt and a T-shirt with a

gray wolf print ironed on the front. There is a knock at the

door. Rae flinches. Ronnie opens the door revealing GILL

MORTON, Ronnie's buddy from high school.

Gill and Rae's eyes meet. Gill sees that Rae is crying.

Ronnie shuts the door and feels a wave of sudden nausea. He

rushes past Rae.

INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - BATHROOM - MORNING

Ronnie is vomiting into the toilet as Rae rubs his head.

Each painful dry heave makes Rae comfort him more.

EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - MORNING

Ronnie places his duffle bag in Gill's truck. Rae begins to

cough.

Rae doesn't answer.

Gill backs away, allowing Ronnie and Rae some privacy. The

two lovers stare into each others eyes and then embrace.

Rae peeks over Ronnie's shoulder at Gill with an expression

of dread. Anger seizes her.

Silence. Rae melts. Tears stream down her face.

Ronnie removes a small digital watch and fastens it around

her wrist.

Ronnie holds out his own wrist to show her his identical

watch.

Rae is shaking. He grips her by the back of her neck and

pushes their faces inches away. Eye to eye.

Rae sees the fear in his eyes. She swallows her own anxiety

and nods.

They kiss passionately.

Afraid of his swelling emotion, Ronnie quickly breaks away

from her.

Rae watches as her love leaves in Gill's pick-up. Compelled

to follow, she absently walks after the truck, down the gravel

drive.

She stops. Silence. She is alone.

An intense wave of sorrow hits, like a kick to her gut. She

gasps for breath as she struggles to hold back the flood of

her tears.

Rae drops to her knees, right there in the gravel drive. Her

hair falls in front of her face, masking her grief.

Her shoulders shudder.

Her middle finger begins to scratch at her thigh repeatedly --

a nervous habit that has always accompanied this burning

sensation that consumes her.

Tears come to her. She's not going to be able to stop it.

Rae is gripping the watch around her wrist for comfort. Her

breathing is already out of her control. The dizziness is

already upon her. The familiar burning.

She inhales in gasps, rocking back and forth on her knees.

The late morning cicadas chirp in an undulating frenzy.

The scratching at her leg leaves a red mark. She is dizzy

with anxiety. Her teeth are clenched, her face is flush.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - AFTERNOON

TEHRONNE is fucking Rae from behind.

Tehronne is a muscular, dark-skinned, black male in his late

twenties.

Rae's face is crammed up against the mirror in the small

bathroom. Tehronne gets faster and pushes harder -- a stark

contrast to her lovemaking with Ronnie.

Rae comes. A severe coughing fit hits her. She pushes him

away with her ass.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - AFTERNOON

Walking with his hands shoved deep into his pockets, wearing

his only suit and tie, is LAZARUS WOODS (LAZ). He is in his

late fifties, black, a strong face under his old fedora. He

stares across the street into Dunn's Cafe.

ROSE WOODS, black, early forties, stands in the cafe. She

looks confident and resolute in her new green skirt.

A brown Delta Olds pulls up into a parking space in front of

Laz. Stepping out is REVEREND R.L., Laz's longtime friend.

He is also black and in his late fifties.

Laz tries to stop his lip from quivering: the man is hurting.

INT. DUNN'S CAFE - AFTERNOON

R.L.'s prayer is heard as Laz opens the front door to the

cafe. He looks ill. Each step is painful.

Laz crosses to Rose's booth -- the distance seems to stretch

out into eternity.

Laz sits across from his wife.

The waitress is kind and twangy as she asks for their order.

The waitress leaves. The sounds of the cafe fill the silence.

The waitress places the coffee between them and leaves.

Rose doesn't answer. Lazarus softens, touching her hand.

It's over. Laz has lost her for good.

The words are daggers. Laz is wounded beyond concealment.

Rose picks up her purse, preparing to leave.

She stands and attempts to walk away. Laz grips her tightly

by the wrist.

The whole cafe is silent. All eyes are on Rose.

And she's gone, right out the front door.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Tehronne is taking his time hanging his ice around his neck

and wrists as he stands shirtless before the mirror. Rae is

lying on the bed.

Rae starts coughing.

Tehronne catches Rae's wrist as she goes to slap. He quickly

yanks her arm behind her back and bends her backwards, shoving

his face close to her own. He grips the money in a fist and

cocks it to punch -- all in jest.

Rae's chest begins to heave with deep breaths. Tehronne looks

down at her legs as she anxiously rubs them together.

Rae gets control of the burning. She takes the money.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - DAY

Rae is prancing up the walkway on the square. Two young men

dressed for construction pass Rae.

The men keep walking as Rae coughs. She turns toward the

Fisherville Grocery.

Rae stops in her tracks, looking up at her estranged mother,

SANDY, smoking a cigarette outside the grocery store. Sandy

has bleached hair with dark roots. She is in her late-forties:

once a sexy girl, now she's lost all her tread.

Rae walks away -- deeply affected by Sandy's presence.

EXT. MELVIN'S FEED STORE - DAY

Laz drives an old green Ford pick-up. He pulls the truck up

to the front of the feed store and kills the engine.

LINCOLN, a 13-year-old black boy, comes out of the open

loading door.

Lincoln runs off. Laz yanks off his black tie.

EXT. MELVIN'S FEED STORE - LATER

Lincoln slaps the last bag of mulch into the bed of Laz's

truck. Laz hands Lincoln a twenty.

Laz smiles. He takes the change. Climbs in his truck.

EXT. LAZARUS'S BARN - LATE DAY

Lazarus steers his tractor toward his small home in a sea of

lush green kudzu. He kills the engine and looks beyond the

nose of his tractor. He lights a cigarette. Below the nose

is the head of a rose garden with a painted sign under it:

Rose's Roses.

Laz inhales smoke and exhales hate. The tractor lunges

forward, trampling the garden, ripping the flowers to shreds.

INT. BOJO'S - EARLY EVENING

MAYELLA is a heavy, forty-year-old black woman. Her blue

neon tube top matches her short pants stretched across her

healthy ass. She is flipping through the juke box selection.

BOJO is reading a paper behind the bar. He's short and stout,

looking like a sad bull dog.

Mayella lifts up her leg and stretches it over the bar with

a provocative flourish. Her shoe is bright blue.

Mayella turns to Laz sipping a beer at the end of the bar.

Mayella moves in close, with the tips of her tits touching

his arm.

Mayella saunters over to the pool table with the others.

The door opens behind Laz. Bojo sees the man entering.

Laz turns to see the door shut behind his brother, DEKE WOODS.

He is younger than Laz and a bit smaller. Laz turns to Bojo.

Deke slowly approaches Laz at the bar.

The dry look on Laz's face could cool the sun.

Laz turns back to the bar. Deke begins to turn but stops.

In one quick movement, Laz grips Deke by the throat and

smashes the bottom of his bottle into jagged shards.

Laz pushes Deke back through the joint and slams him onto

the pool table. He grips Deke's throat and holds the broken

bottle up to his face.

Lazarus slams the bottle down on the pool table, shattering

it. Laz lifts his hand. His own blood leaks from between his

fingers.

He wipes the blood across Deke's face.

Laz releases Deke and exits. Deke calls after him.

Laz slams the door behind him.

EXT. FISHERVILLE HIGH SCHOOL - FOOTBALL FIELD - NIGHT

The bleachers are packed with three generations of fans and

family cheering their boys on the high school football field.

Rae is sitting with her two girlfriends, JESSE and KELL --

two girls who graduated five years ago.

EXT. CONNER'S HOUSE - THE KEGGER - NIGHT

Dirty South rap pounds the ears from a hoopty Olds with a

backseat full of bass. Rae, Kell, and Jesse are walking up

to the rowdy party through the variety of parked cars.

A girl rushes past the trio, vomiting on herself as a friend

comes to her aid.

INT. CONNER'S HOUSE - THE KEGGER - NIGHT

CONNER is one of the linebackers for the Fisherville Dusters.

A wasted girl sits on his lap as Kell rolls a joint.

Jesse notices Rae coughing. She pulls her aside as Conner

rambles.

Rae and Jesse take a strong shot. It burns.

As they pound one more, Rae notices Gill, Ronnie's friend,

staring at her from across the room.

BATSON and MARK approach Jesse and Rae. They are both

sophomores, both skinny and harmless.

Rae peeks at Gill maneuvering through the room.

Rae pushes through the crowd of drunken kids to get to Gill.

Rae pushes through the crowd, back toward the others.

QUICK CUTS of: Batson popping out five red cough pills. Rae

swallowing all five and chasing them with vodka. Conner's

girl falls off his lap. Kell laughs. The laughter echoes and

grows as we:

EXT. CONNER'S HOUSE - THE KEGGER - HIS PARENT'S WATERBED -

NIGHT

CLOSE ANGLES: We never quite see the whole of what is implied.

Rae's eyes, Jesse's mouth, a boy's shoulder.

The room is packed with bodies. Rae laughs with pleasure as

her eyes attempt to focus. The kid on top of her finishes

and rolls off.

Jesse is straddling a guy in an arm chair, Chinese-eyed and

bouncing. Rae tries to respond coherently as another football

player rolls her over on all fours and takes her from behind.

A few coughs. Rae focuses to see a younger guy sitting at

her eye level.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - THE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Laz kills the rest of his whiskey. He squeezes his eyes closed

as the liquor burns his throat. He tosses the bottle into a

trash bag he is holding.

Laz continues throwing out all of Rose's make-up and hair

products. With one broad sweep, he cleans off her vanity.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - NIGHT

Laz opens the front door and tosses the two bags outside.

Stumbling, he kneels next to the coiled radiator against the

wall opposite the door. He talks to it like an old friend.

A thought.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - THE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Laz pulls out a guitar case from under the bed. He wipes a

layer of dust off and opens it.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

He gently cradles the guitar in his big hands and sits at

his kitchen table. Tunes the strings. He closes his eyes,

swimming in drunken sorrow.

Laz plays the blues, Mississippi, Bentonian style: one guitar,

one voice, a mess of pain.

The music continues as we:

EXT. CONNER'S HOUSE - THE KEGGER - THE WOODS OUT BACK -

NIGHT

Lazarus's blues is all we hear as four guys chase Rae through

the woods. She is in her shirt and panties, wearing football

shoulder pads.

She is completely wasted. Lost. The ground rocks back and

forth with each step. Trees pass in a slow-motion haze.

Rae grips a tree to steady herself, but a team member tackles

her. The woods spin and distort as someone mounts her with

ease.

Rae smiles as she lifts her hand up to the stars, passing

the writhing back of the guy on top of her. If she could

just grab a star she would feel safe again.

She tries to snatch one. She can't. Her hand drops as the

boy stands and takes off after his friends tossing the

football.

Rae lies motionless on the ground.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

A tear rolls down Laz's cheek.

His guitar groans its last for the night.

EXT. CONNER'S HOUSE - THE KEGGER - FRONT YARD - LATER THAT

NIGHT

Rae is wasted. She is still wearing her shirt, panties and

shoulder pads as she steps over passed-out teenagers.

Rae doesn't look up. The Coricidin is tripping her out.

Gill reaches down and pulls off the shoulder pads. The

coughing fit passes.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

Gill's truck flies down the dark road.

INT. GILL'S TRUCK - NIGHT

Rae is looking out the window, drifting in and out.

Gill pulls to the side of the road and kills the engine. He

watches Rae tilt her head from side to side.

Gill grabs her legs and spreads them with no resistance. Her

head rolls from side to side on the truck seat as Gill unzips

his pants.

Rae starts giggling.

Gill flinches upright. A rage builds in his eyes.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

From outside the steamed truck window, we see Gill beat Rae

repeatedly.

Silence.

Silence.

He opens the truck door, fear in his eyes. Rae isn't moving.

Blood is on her face.

A hasty idea. He pushes her out of the truck. She falls to

the dark pavement in a tangle of her own limbs.

The door slams. Gill floors the gas. Rae lies motionless

alone under the stars.

Her watch alarm goes off: Beep-beep. Beep-beep. Beep-beep.

INT. A BUS - NIGHT

Ronnie is asleep on the bus, unaware that his watch alarm in

beeping at him.

A Guardsman sitting next to him shakes Ronnie awake.

Ronnie silences the alarm. He regards the watch with sadness

and affection.

EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHT

The bus roars past. The red brake lights fade into night.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

Lazarus has fallen asleep sitting at his kitchen table. His

eyes open. Standing is difficult. The guitar falls to the

floor.

The phone rings. Dizziness hits, but he manages to pick up

the receiver.

INT. CHURCH OF GOD / LAZARUS'S HOME - EARLY MORNING

R.L. is on his cell phone. He is placing hymnals in the back

racks of the church pews.

Laz hangs up the phone.

EXT. LAZARUS'S HOME - LATE MORNING

Lazarus steps out onto his porch. He picks up the trash bags

full of Rose's things and walks down the gravel drive to the

road.

EXT. LAZARUS'S HOME - WHERE THE DRIVE MEETS THE ROAD - LATE

MORNING

Laz tosses the bags inside his trash cans.

He's really hung over this morning. His eyes squeeze shut,

he grips his neck in pain.

His eyes open. They remain fixed beyond us. The pain in his

face is replaced with grave confusion.

Rae lies on the side of the road.

Her T-shirt and panties are damp from the early morning mist,

her face caked with dried blood. Her skin is deathly white,

her mouth open, her eyes shut and swollen.

Lazarus carefully steps toward her. He leans down over her

face.

Rae coughs. Laz flinches.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - LATE MORNING

The door slams against the wall as it swings open. Laz is

carrying Rae, unconscious and limp, in his arms.

He lays her down on the couch by the radiator. He pulls a

quilt over her cold skin. With a twist of the valve the

radiator moans to life.

Laz takes out his bandana and cleans her face. He tries to

wake her.

Her eyes open slightly -- just slits of white.

She whispers as she touches her fingers to his cheek.

A labored breath followed by the most pitiful cough fit. Laz

tries to calm her as her lungs fight for oxygen. Laz looks

scared as the coughing stops in a desperate wheeze followed

by silence.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - KITCHEN - MORNING

Laz pulls the phone off its cradle on the wall and flips

through the phone book.

His fingers scan down the listings and stops on POLICE

DEPARTMENT. He dials and listens.

Slam! Fingers hit the phone cradle. Lazarus dials 911.

As soon as he places the phone to his ear, he looks over at

Rae sprawled out on his couch. Her bare legs can be seen

peeking out from under the quilt.

Fear hits him. He slams the phone down again.

Laz crosses to the couch and gently touches her head.

Laz touches the radiator. It burns him.

EXT. ROAD - AFTERNOON

Laz's Ford roars down the shaded street towards town.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON

Laz parks his truck in front of MACON DRUGS and heads inside.

An old black man named RED sits on a bench next to an older

white man in his early eighties holding a cane. RED is the

paid caretaker of MELVIN.

Laz rushes inside.

INT. MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON

The variety of cough medicine confuses Laz as he examines

them.

ANGELA approaches Laz. She is dressed in a floral print dress

with a white lab coat. Angela has a few extra pounds on her

but she wears it well with her caring face and sweet manner.

Angela wants the conversation to continue but Laz remains

silent. She smiles awkwardly.

Angela thinks for a moment.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - DAY

Snot and spittle has run down the side of Rae's face -- her

eyelids stick together as she tries to open them.

There is a creak, followed by another. Rae has become aware

that someone is slowly walking up the front porch.

The door opens. Silhouetted in the day's blinding light is a

white man in his 40's. His face is indistinguishable to Rae's

affected gaze.

Is this a dream?

He stands above her and lights a cigarette. The Zippo lighter

clasps shut. The man lowers it to his side where Rae can see

it clearly. A bald eagle is printed on the side, a sight

that makes Rae's eyes open wide in horror.

Her breath grows deeper -- a girlish plea. This is no dream --

it's a nightmare.

A massive hand slaps down over her mouth. Her crusted eyes

peer above the hairy knuckles. He sucks on the cigarette. A

red cherry blazes at the end. The man pushes the blanket off

of her and grips her panties.

Rae's eyes close. She knows what is next. In his clenched

fist, the panties are ripped off.

Rae flinches awake from the fever-induced nightmare and falls

to the wooden floor, drenched in sweat. Weakened and shaking,

she scampers away, finally collapsing in the kitchen. Her

hand reaches out and lands on the strings of Laz's guitar on

the floor. She grips the steel strings with her trembling

fingers.

A single bass note twangs as she passes out.

INT. MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON

Angela stands between the aisles, motioning Laz to approach,

away from the girl at the counter.

She hands him a white box with cough syrup inside.

Laz doesn't know what to say. He puts the box in his pocket.

Angela returns the smile.

EXT. MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON

Laz opens his truck door and stops. At the pool-hall across

the square, Laz sees a green Cutlass with chrome rims.

INT. POOL HALL - AFTERNOON

Laz enters the empty pool hall. Tehronne is playing a game

with a skinny playa-wanna-be dressed in flea-market Fubu.

CHARLIE, the owner, approaches Laz from the bar.

Charlie nods Laz on. He crosses to the back pool table as

Tehronne sinks the 8. Tehronne looks at his friend.

Tehronne hands his friend the pool cue. The two take a few

steps away to talk.

Lazarus looks at him with a furrowed brow. Confused.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - DAY

Laz opens his own door with caution. He turns to see Rae

sprawled in his kitchen in her panties and T-shirt. He rushes

to her side.

Lazarus lifts her sweaty body off the floor and moves her

back to the couch.

Consciousness briefly returns to Rae in her feverish haze.

CLOSE UP - FLASHBACK

The white-knuckled hand clutched around her mouth.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - DAY

Rae flinches and flails. She falls to the floor.

Rae's eyes are open and filled with fear. She struggles to

flee as Laz holds her in place, trying to reassure her.

Rae is too weak to talk or move. Laz clutches her small face

in his dark hands.

Rae's eyes roll back.

Lazarus looks terrified as she cranes her head back and

forward. Her mouth opens.

In her sickened state, with the force of something evil and

deep inside, Rae clasps her open mouth over Laz's. A shriek

sounds in his brain as he holds her tighter, allowing the

kiss to grow in intensity. Rae falls to her stomach as Laz

abruptly stands and stumbles across the room. What he sees

chills him to the bone.

Rae is writhing on the floor as if she is possessed -- a

rant of raspy words pour from her mouth.

Lazarus gets spooked by what he is seeing. He looks to the

mantle. His weathered Bible lies in a coat of dust. He picks

it up as a wave of the burning hits Rae.

She clutches her breast and crotch, rolling from side to

side.

INT. DUNN'S CAFE - MORNING - FLASHBACK

Rose is shouting at the customers in the cafe. Her eyes are

white like Rae's. Her voice is not her own but that of Rae.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - DAY

Laz runs out of his own home, not even shutting the door

behind him. He gets half way down his drive, the Bible still

clutched in his hand. He stops.

In a panic, Laz opens his Bible, places it down on the drive,

face up, creating a barrier to evil. He hears a choking cough

inside the house. Rae is fighting for breath beyond the dark

door.

Silence. Laz reaches down and picks up his Bible.

A passage catches his eye. As he reads, the fear vanishes

from his face. His back straightens. His jaw tightens. He

looks back at his house, his faith is renewed.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - THE BATHROOM - DAY

The Bible is slammed down on top of the toilet tank. The

bathtub faucet coughs as Laz twists the cold water knob.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - DAY

The freezer door opens. He snatches four trays of ice.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BATHROOM - DAY

The trays crack. The ice cubes bounce into the tub.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - DAY

Rae's lips are dried and split as she pants, lost in dizzying

fever. Laz lifts her.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BATHROOM - DAY

Laz kneels on one knee to put her into the tub.

A horrible cry from Rae as Laz wrestles with her, keeping

her submerged in the ice cold water.

Rae is motionless. Exhausted. Her eyes are open but blind.

Her lip trembles. Her body shakes from the freezing water.

Laz rubs the hair from her face gently. He reaches over to

the Bible on the toilet and opens it to read.

Rae's shivering is abating. Her eyes fight to stay open. Laz

touches her forehead to test her temperature.

Rae's eyes begin to close. Laz gently touches her head to

rile her awake.

He touches her forehead again. Her eyes close.

Laz leans against the wall, spent.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - SUNSET

The cicadas sing in a rising chorus as the clouds above fade

from copper to crimson.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

The faint echo of Rae's fevered panting.

She lies on the couch wrapped in a quilt, shivering. Her

eyes remain closed, her face drenched with sweat. Laz has

cleaned her facial wounds, using a few Band-Aids.

BOOM!

An explosion ignites the windows surrounding the cabin. Rae

jolts awake, terror pervades her as she gasps at the fire

ball outside the window.

She struggles to her feet and listens. A faint sound can be

heard through the roar of the flames. beep beep... beep

beep... beep beep... beep beep...

Rae stumbles to the door, weak and dizzy. She grips the door

knob and pulls the door open.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

Rae races outside, tripping down the front porch steps. She

looks off at the blaze in the squash field. She frantically

races toward the fire, the beeping increases.

BEEP BEEP... BEEP BEEP... BEEP BEEP... BEEP BEEP...

At the center of the blaze is an upside down Humvee. To the

left of the vehicle, a few soldier's bodies lay scattered.

Rae's legs lose all strength, she collapses and crawls across

the squash plants.

A far away voice is heard over the roaring flames.

Rae crawls across a fallen soldier, following the sound of

Ronnie's alarm. She struggles to breathe, she almost faints.

She finds a soldier face down. With all her strength she

turns him over. It is Ronnie, wide-eyed and lifeless.

An awful groan comes out of Rae -- crippling sorrow. She

pulls on his vest trying to wake him.

Rae looks up. The flaming humvee is gone. She is not pulling

on Ronnie's vest, but the tangled vines of a squash plant.

Laz stands at a safe distance, silhouetted in moonlight.

Rae looks like a terrified child. Her eyes well with tears

as she shakes her head. Laz takes a step toward her.

She turns and runs away as best she can. Laz chases after

her. He's much older than her and a bit slower, but her

balance betrays her.

Laz wraps his arms around her. Rae screams to the sky.

And then, stillness. Rae lies limp in Laz's arms, unconscious.

He reaches down and lifts her wrist to his face. The green

screen of the digital watch pulsates with the alarm.

He pushes the side button. The beeping stops. Silence.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Laz lays Rae back onto his couch. Her eyes open into slits.

She can see Laz's form over her like the man in her nightmare.

Rae grabs Laz's wrist. He flinches with her force.

Struggling with exhaustion, Rae moves Laz's hand to her bare

stomach. She rubs it slowly up and down her form,

suggestively.

Laz slips his hand away and claps it tight over her eyes.

Rae holds her breath, waiting to be molested, her lip

quivering.

Rae relaxes and falls into a deep sleep.

Laz backs away from her, a touch of fear in his heart. The

voice of Tehronne is heard from earlier in the day.

INT. POOL HALL - EARLIER THAT DAY - FLASHBACK

Lazarus looks at Tehronne with a furrowed brow, confused.

INT. LAZARUS'S BARN - NIGHT

Lazarus opens his barn, slicing through the darkness with

his flashlight.

He crosses to the other side, pulls on a beaded chain turning

on the single bulb above his work table.

Laz opens an old wooden box on his work table. He looks

inside.

INT. POOL HALL - MORNING - FLASHBACK

Laz looks ill. Tehronne checks his pager briefly.

Tehronne's friend breaks on the pool table with a sharp crack.

Lazarus is genuinely disturbed.

INT. LAZARUS'S BARN - NIGHT

Lazarus reaches inside the box and pulls out the end of an

old chain.

The chain rattles as Laz walks backwards, pulling the long

chain from the box. The shouting of his brother can be heard.

The end of the chain snags, yanking the box over.

CRASH!

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE VEGETABLE GARDEN - LATE MORNING

Lazarus is bent over, harvesting his tomatoes.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

Laz enters his home. He crosses to the kitchen and pours

himself a glass of water.

Dripping with sweat, he steps back into the room, downing

the last of his water. He lowers the glass, noticing Rae

looking at him.

Rae lifts her head off the pillow. Laz comes to her side and

helps her sit up.

Rae sits up on the couch, the quilt wrapped around her waist.

She looks at the cough syrup bottle on the side table.

Rae touches the cut over her eye. That evening is still a

blur.

Rae lifts her head, revealing tears in her eyes. She gets

mad at herself and wipes them away.

Rae struggles for balance as she attempts to stand. The quilt

falls away as a heavy chain slides off the couch and thuds

on the floor by her feet.

Rae feels a tug.

She looks down to see a dark chain locked around her thin

waist and coiled on the floor. The opposite end is locked

around the side coil of the radiator.

She is chained to the house, a prisoner.

Rae stumbles as she moves away from Laz. Laz tries to reassure

her.

Rae waits.

Rae begins to feel a pang of panic. She goes to the chain

locked around the radiator. She yanks on it a few times.

This statement terrifies Rae. The fear can be seen in her

eyes. She backs away -- the chain scrapes across the floor.

Rae pushes Laz back and bolts for the door. Laz falls back

against the side table by the couch, toppling the lamp.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME / INT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

The door slams against the house as Rae rushes out in her

wolf shirt and panties -- the chain trailing behind her.

Laz watches as the coil unravels and snaps taut, yanking on

the old radiator.

Clank! The chain whips Rae down to the ground. Laz watches

as dust flies of the radiator with each tug.

CLANK!

The fear in Laz's face is replaced with a grin as he watches

his radiator hold firm.

Outside, Rae bucks and screams, yanking on the chain like a

wild mustang. Her bare feet and legs are soiled with fresh

mud and grass as she claws at the ground.

Laz crosses to the radiator and pats it like a proud parent --

his wedding ring clicks against the iron.

He steps outside with resolve and strength. He picks up the

chain and wraps it around his fist.

Laz yanks her back, dragging her towards him. He grips the

taut chain with his other hand and yanks her closer.

Rae is spent. She turns to look at her captor as he wrangles

her back to the porch.

Rae spits at Laz. Bad idea.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - LATER THAT AFTERNOON

Rae is screaming and grunting as Laz, standing in his kitchen,

tugs on the chain around the door-jam like he's drawing water

from a well.

Outside Rae struggles to hold onto the porch post. Laz pulls

hard, lifting her lower torso off the ground.

Laz yanks. Rae loses her grip and slams onto the porch.

The pulling stops. Rae picks herself up. Her knees and hands

are scraped and bleeding. The two stare at each other.

Laz crosses to the kitchen. Rae sits down on the couch,

noticing the fallen lamp on the floor.

He finishes preparing the two waters. He crosses into the

front room. Rae is not there.

CRASH! Rae smashes the lamp on Laz's head. The water glasses

shatter as Laz falls to the floor.

Rae picks up a wooden chair and breaks it over his back.

Before she can do any more damage, Laz grabs her by the wrists

and throws her to the couch.

Rae falls to the floor. Laz stumbles on his feet as he

clutches his bleeding head. He loses his cool.

Rae freezes as she sees Laz undo his belt buckle. Her breath

starts to quiver as she deeply inhales and exhales.

Laz whips his belt off and wraps the buckle around his fist.

He stops in his tracks. Rae is panting and shaking. Her middle

finger is scratching at her own thigh.

Her anguished hum can be heard through her clenched teeth as

she rocks back and forth. Her hands wander down to her inner

thighs.

Rae gets dizzy. She rests the top of her head on the floor

and sways back and forth. Laz rushes out the front door.

As the wave hits, Rae twists and turns, wrapping the chain

around her. She grips the radiator with both hands and rests

her face against the side.

The wave is about to build in to a powerful climax. Rae gasps

for breath.

The door slams open. Laz drenches her with a gallon of cold

well water from a tin bucket. Rae inhales and freezes. Laz

waits and watches.

The burning is gone.

Laz kneels next to her and gently frees her bare ankle from

the tangled chain.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - ON THE PORCH - LATER THAT DAY

They are both seated on the front porch with paper plates in

their laps. Laz watches with amusement as Rae tears into her

chicken and gobbles up the vegetables.

Rae remains under Lazarus' intense gaze as the cicadas sing.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE VEGETABLE GARDEN - SUNSET

Rae stares off at orange clouds and purple sky. She takes a

step to her left, walking through the parallel rows of squash.

The chain gently rattles behind her. Laz has given her about

20 feet of slack. He holds the chain tight around his fist.

Rae grins, standing proud in her wolf shirt and panties.

Rae teases Laz by adjusting her panties. She turns back to

the sunset and stretches.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

Rae's smoldering eyes don't leave Laz as he chains her to

the radiator. Laz nervously preaches, trying to avoid the

sight of her bare legs curled up on his couch.

Laz moves in close and starts applying antibacterial cream

to the cut above Rae's eye.

Laz starts putting the cream on her scabbed knees. He rubs

them gently.

Rae is aware that Laz is somewhere else, talking to someone

else other than her. There is anger in his tone as he rubs

ointment on her bare, scabbed knees.

Rae yanks free of Laz's grip, recoiling on the couch.

Laz awakens from his rant. He blinks and stands. A sudden

shame overtakes him. He crosses into the kitchen to hide by

the sink.

He pours Rae a glass of water and returns to her side.

Rae leans up into his face. The glass of water is touching

her chest. Laz remains hypnotized by her eyes.

Laz stands and backs away. He quickly leaves the room.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - THE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Laz looks at himself in the reflection of Rose's vanity

mirror, listening to Rae stir in the next room.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

The cicadas are screaming outside. Rae is beginning to breathe

deep, the burning is coming on.

She folds her arms over her chest, her middle finger

scratching her elbow. The anxiety is too much. She rolls

over until the chain pulls taut against the radiator.

Rae has wrapped herself in a tangle of chain. Her breathing

relaxes. Her eyes close. She sleeps.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - EARLY DAWN

A train rumbles past in the blue hue of dawn.

Laz pulls his truck next to two other fruit and vegetable

vendors: ARCHIE and GENE.

Archie is an old black man in his early seventies. Gene is a

short white man closer to Laz's age.

Laz sets up his folding table and uncovers his produce.

Gene looks at Archie and shrugs.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - MORNING

Rae snaps awake. She is wet with sweat from the morning heat.

Rae drags the chain behind her as she crosses to the front

door and looks outside. No truck.

She folds her arms and looks into the kitchen. There on the

table is a covered plate and a small bottle of milk. Rae

reads a note on top of the plate: BE BACK FOR SUPPER.

She pulls off the top plate and finds sausage links, eggs,

biscuits, sliced tomatoes, and sliced peaches.

She yanks her chain. It rattles across the floor as she sits.

INT. ELLA MAE'S WOMEN'S CLOTHING - EARLY AFTERNOON

Laz looks out of place in his faded overalls surrounded by

bright colors of Ella Mae's dress shop.

ELLA MAE is a wide woman with white hair in her late fifties.

Ella Mae turns to her assistant, Rhonda. Rhonda is a 19-year-

old black girl. She turns back to Laz, unsure how to proceed.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BATHROOM - AFTERNOON

Rae sits down in the tub, still wearing her T-shirt and

panties. Looking up at the shower head above she turns on

the cold water and yanks up on the shower knob.

Cold water sprays down over her. She gasps and then relaxes,

laying back in the tub.

INT. ELLA MAE'S WOMEN'S CLOTHING - AFTERNOON

Laz is at the counter. Rhonda is putting the shoes and clothes

in two shopping bags while Ella Mae rings him up.

Lazarus points to a small display of fine lotions.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

Rae rattles into the kitchen, her damp clothes clinging to

her form. She picks up Laz's guitar off the table and places

it in her lap.

She plucks a few random strings out of boredom and smiles.

INT. MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON

The same apathetic girl is working the front counter as Laz

enters the drug store with a basket of arranged vegetables.

Laz makes his way to the back of the store. He spies Angela

in the back pharmacy, sorting pills for a pick-up. He watches

her work for a moment until, finally, she sees him.

Laz waits as Angela rounds the corner.

Angela smiles. There is tension and attraction between the

two.

Angela is flush as Laz moves closer than he has ever been

before. He reaches in the basket for the jar of cream.

Laz holds the jar up to her nose. Angela closes her eyes and

smells. Her expression says enough -- she loves it.

Angela takes the lotion from his hand. She is subtle and

demure, but the woman is deeply affected. She smiles.

Angela watches Laz as he walks out the door. The apathetic

girl moves up behind Angela.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - MACON DRUGS - AFTERNOON

Laz opens his truck and waves goodbye to Old Red. Melvin is

holding a healthy squash.

Laz pulls away in his truck and rounds the corner just as

R.L. crosses the street. He steps over to talk to Red.

INT. LAZARUS'S HOME - KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

Rae occasionally strums an awful chord as she sings playfully.

Rae stays hidden as she peeks out the front window. Lincoln

is standing before the house holding an old picnic basket.

Rae's middle finger begins scraping against the wall.

Rae fights her dizziness. She crawls to the radiator as she

hears each creak of Lincoln crossing to the front door.

QUICK CUTS

The Zippo with the bald eagle closes. A smoldering cigarette.

Rae flinches and grits her teeth as Lincoln knocks on the

door: Knock, knock.

The burning has started: deep gasps, itching, anxiety.

Rae watches the shadows of Lincoln's shoes under the door.

They wait patiently and walk away.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

Lincoln walks down the porch steps and stops. Thinks.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

Rae inches upward, pulling herself up the radiator so she

can stand. Her panting has waned.

Suddenly the front door swings open.

Lincoln can't believe what he sees. Rae is chained around

the waist, damp and barely clothed. Her eyes bore into Lincoln

like an owl zeroing in on a helpless jackrabbit.

She rips her shirt off in one tug over her head.

Lincoln can't move. The picnic basket hits the floor. His

mouth hangs open in shock as Rae steps towards him and lays

her open mouth on the boy.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

SLAM! Rae shuts the door.

Laz steers his Ford truck up the drive and parks. He takes

his time getting out and removing the shopping bags. He opens

the door and goes inside.

His curses can be heard from outside.

Lincoln is tossed off the porch, clinging to his overalls.

Tears and fear come to Lincoln as Laz steps out onto the

porch, fuming with rage.

Lincoln backs away expecting a good beating. He starts running

up the drive but stops as R.L.'s Olds rolls up the drive.

Lincoln darts past Laz and runs into the barn, clutching his

overalls. R.L. stops the car halfway down the drive and steps

out.

R.L. starts walking up the drive.

R.L. stops in his tracks as Lazarus pulls out his hunting

rifle from the rack behind his seat in his truck.

Laz is struggling. The rifle feels suddenly strange to him.

R.L. pushes his chest up against the rifle and shouts back.

Laz's heart is breaking. He is pointing a gun at his only

friend.

R.L. snatches the rifle out of Laz's hands.

A tear rolls down Laz's cheek. The shame is unbearable.

Laz takes the bandana and wipes the tears away.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

The door creaks open. R.L. carefully steps inside. Rae is

sitting on the couch, looking out the window.

Rae doesn't respond. R.L. quickly steps outside shutting the

door behind him.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

R.L. shakes his head as Laz follows him off the porch.

Laz briefly looks off at the barn, knowing Lincoln is there.

Silence.

R.L. nods. Lazarus smiles.

Laz walks toward the barn and turns back to R.L..

EXT. LAZARUS' BARN - AFTERNOON

Laz opens the door to his barn wide, allowing the afternoon

light to find Lincoln sitting on an old tire, weeping.

Lincoln shakes his head. Laz carefully sits next to him.

Lincoln nods. Laz hands him the bandana R.L. gave him.

Lincoln grins as he wipes the snot from his nose.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - AFTERNOON

R.L. hands Rae a glass of water. She is seated on the sofa,

wrapped in a quilt.

Rae struggles to answer. Something is on her mind.

Rae grins. R.L. leans closer.

Rae has never had anyone talk to her like this. She is

listening. She is understanding.

Rae looks at her bare feet. She tries to respond but the

pain in her chokes back the words. Tears come to her.

EXT. GREYHOUND BUS STATION - LATE AFTERNOON

A bus stops at the station. The doors swing open. A few

passengers exit the bus followed by Ronnie.

He is not wearing his uniform.

EXT. GREYHOUND BUS STATION - PHONE BOOTH - LATE AFTERNOON

He drops his duffle bag and pops a few quarters in the phone.

He waits, allows the phone to ring.

Ronnie hangs up the phone. He remains motionless, fearful

and alone.

He picks up his duffle and walks down the interstate.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - SUNSET

Lincoln stands over the barbecue spraying lighter fluid over

the coals while R.L. peels back the corn husks.

Lincoln tosses a match on the coals. They ignite with flame.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - SUNSET

Laz is humming to himself as he finishes chopping up the

potatoes. He wipes his hands and catches Rae standing behind

him.

She looks classic in the floral sundress. She folds her arms,

feeling awkward under Laz's approving gaze.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - AT THE TABLE - NIGHT

The four of them (Rae, Laz, Lincoln, and R.L.) are all seated

at the kitchen table, holding hands as R.L. says grace.

Rae peeks at the others with their eyes closed tight. She

follows their example.

R.L.  We ask that you bless this meal put before us. May the

food nourish our bodies and this fellowship nourish our

spirit. In Jesus name we pray. Amen.

There is a sudden flurry of activity at the table as the

four begin piling up their plates.

Rae's eyes are fixed on R.L. as he picks up a devilled egg.

She looks over at Laz who is aware of her anxiety. He gives

her a wink.

R.L. bites into the egg and moans with delight.

Everyone looks at Rae, surprised. She feels a sudden rush of

fear as she struggles to answer R.L.'s question.

EXT. LAMPLIGHTER BAR - NIGHT

Ronnie is walking by the bar along the interstate. He stops

when he sees Gill's truck.

INT. LAMPLIGHTER BAR - NIGHT

Ronnie adjusts his duffle bag over his shoulder as he enters

the mid-sized bar.

Gill is seated at the bar. He turns to Ronnie along with a

few other locals, one being HERMAN, age 40.

Ronnie sits next to Gill. Herman leans in wanting to be a

part of the conversation.

Ronnie stiffens. Gill is confused.

Ronnie looks away. He takes a sip of his beer.

Ronnie loses his cool. He lunges at Herman. Gill holds him

back.

Herman gets up to leave with his beer.

Ronnie glares at Herman as he moves to the other side of the

bar. Gill moves closer to Ronnie to get the whole story.

Gill doesn't know what to say next.

EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Gill's truck rounds the bend and up the gravel drive leading

up to Ronnie's trailer.

The headlights scan across the porch as Gill parks.

INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Ronnie is the first through the door, calling out for Rae

before he can turn on the lights.

Gill enters. He sees that the trailer is the same as it was

the day he picked up Ronnie, nothing is different.

Gill is disturbed by Ronnie's sudden flood of emotion and

tears. He crosses to the pantry, already knowing which

cupboard to pull the liquor out of.

He pours two drinks. He hands one to Ronnie.

Ronnie manages a few swallows.

Gill stands over Ronnie, looking down on his pitiful face.

His words are painful to Ronnie. Gill doesn't hold back.

Rage suddenly fills Gill. He grabs Ronnie and throws him

against the wall.

Ronnie can't respond. Tears roll down his face. Gill holds

up the whiskey bottle.

Gill turns away. Ronnie grips Gill around the neck from

behind. He bends him back painfully and throws his head up

against the wall.

EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - NIGHT

The front door burst open as Gill goes flying down the front

porch. Ronnie cocks a .45 and shoves it into his belt.

Ronnie pins Gill's elbow behind his back and retrieves the

keys from his front pocket.

Gill watches Ronnie tear down the drive in his own truck.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - NEAR THE BARN - NIGHT

Laz and R.L. are smoking. Laz smiles as he watches Lincoln

and Rae through the kitchen window as they wash dishes and

talk about football.

Laz is silent.

Laz looks down at his shoes. He surrenders. He nods.

Laz struggles with his emotions. He turns to R.L. stone faced

and cold.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE FRONT DOOR - NIGHT

Laz and Rae wave to Lincoln as he climbs into R.L.'s car.

They pull away, up the drive, and disappear into the night.

The cicadas sing as the two stand in silence: Rae, at peace,

feeling genuine contentment; while Laz looks lost in silent

pain.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

A bottle of whiskey is removed from a top cabinet above the

refrigerator. Two small glasses each get a healthy swallow.

He hands her a glass. Laz then looks at his as if he struggles

with a decision.

Rae nods and downs the whiskey with Lazarus.

Laz pours another swig for himself and downs it.

Laz pounds back his third shot.

Laz pulls Rae closer to him by the chain wrapped around her

waist. He opens the old lock with a key.

The chain falls to the floor with a hollow thud. Rae looks

confused.

The two stare at each other in silence.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Rae watches with intense curiosity as Laz tunes his guitar,

sitting at the table.

Laz slides his calloused fingers across the strings, spurring

the old guitar into an impressive wail. Rae grips the chair.

A haunting slide guitar riff barks. Rae has a physical

reaction to the music. She is fascinated and fearful.

Laz thinks for a moment. Continues playing.

The guitar's song turns dark. Laz slides his fingers up the

guitar strings, lingering on low growns.

Fear spreads across Rae's face. Laz is talking about something

all too familiar.

Laz stops. He sways back and forth with his eyes closed. Rae

hears the swell of the cicadas. Her eyes dart to the front

door as the familiar creek of footsteps are heard.

The door swings open. A white calloused hand appears around

Rae's mouth.

She gasps in terror, clutching Laz's leg. The white hand is

gone. Tears come to her. She trembles as Laz sings.

Rae rests her head against his knee.

Laz concludes the song. Rae raises up to her knees, facing

Laz. Tears have run down his dried face. He opens his eyes.

Rae gently touches his cheek. The wind picks up outside.

Rae kisses Laz. He is motionless at first, allowing it to

happen. His hand moves from the neck of his guitar to the

bend in her neck.

The passion intensifies as they squeeze the guitar between

them.

Laz pulls his lips away and holds her head in his hands.

They are so close, they are breathing into each other's

mouths.

The guitar clangs to the floor as Laz lifts Rae in his arms.

They kiss, ravenous for each other. He knocks up against the

side table, causing his Bible to fall to the floor, face up

and open. The wind pushes the front door open, slamming it

hard against the wall.

They turn together, kissing, Laz slowly spinning with Rae in

his arms. But Laz is soon distracted by the pages of his

Bible fluttering on the floor. The wind is blowing the pages,

turning them with an unseen hand.

It takes a considerable effort to pull Rae away. She falls

to the floor, dizzy and sucking in air.

Rae is struggling for breath. She desperately grabs at Laz.

Her eyes roll back briefly, almost losing consciousness. Laz

catches her and holds her tightly.

Laz grips the chain and wraps it around Rae.

As the burning increases. Laz holds Rae tight across his

lap, his back up against the radiator.

Her legs itch like they are covered in ants. The wave is

hitting her hard. Laz holds her face up to him.

Suddenly aware of the rising burn, Rae grits her teeth.

Rae turns away as Laz holds her head in his lap. She bites

down on his middle finger as his hand moves over her mouth.

She is gasping, screaming into his hand.

It hits. Laz holds her.

Rae's open mouth quivers as the sensation peaks. Her shoulders

slump, her chest vibrates. She is crying softly.

The pages of the Bible flip to the final pages in the wind.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - MORNING

Laz's truck pulls into his usual spot on the square. Rae is

riding shotgun.

Rae looks out the window, a touch of fear.

They both step out of the truck. Gene and Archie watch Rae's

ass as she walks by. They then look back at Laz, incredulous.

INT. FISHERVILLE GROCERY - MORNING

Rae enters the modest grocery store holding herself tight. A

few harmless shoppers look at her making her feel even more

uncomfortable.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - AFTERNOON

Laz is selling vegetables to a young woman. He is unaware

that Angela has moved up behind him, grinning, carrying a

small basket.

Angela steps forward and pulls away her hair from her neck.

She cranes, offering her neck for Laz to smell.

INT. FISHERVILLE GROCERY - AFTERNOON

Rae is looking at herself in the provided makeup counter

mirror. She looks at the compact in her hand and decides

against the purchase.

She rounds the corner and stops. She sees Sandy on her knees

in the center of the aisle, building a display of tuna cans.

Rae thinks to leave, but stops. She makes a decision to talk

to her. She walks up the aisle and stands above her mother.

Rae kneels down next to her. She's trying to make a

connection.

Sandy stands and wipes her brow.

Rae starts walking away. She quickly turns.

It is clear from Sandy's reserved anguish that Rae is telling

the truth.

Sandy firmly grips her by the arm and walks her out. Rae

winces in pain like a toddler being led off to a car for a

good whipping.

Sandy walks back up the aisle returning to her canned tuna.

And then the rage hits Rae.

With each breath Rae grits her teeth tighter. She grabs a

mop off the side aisle and turns around. Sandy is pricing

cans, down on her knees. She doesn't see Rae coming.

Rae clocks her over the head, sending Sandy into the display

of cans. Rae hits her again with the mop. She is screaming

in short anguished breaths.

Rae grabs everything she can and dumps them onto Sandy: Bags

of flour, cans, entire shelves of ketchup.

Mark comes running to the aisle followed by two other

employees. Stunned customers watch in amazement.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - AFTERNOON

Laz and Angela are seated next to each other under the gazebo.

Angela blushes. She looks around and then leans in close to

Laz. She sings softly, sweetly, with all her soul.

Laz is falling in love. She is so beautiful to him, he doesn't

see the people running to the front of the grocery store.

Laz is grinning from ear to ear. He is about to speak but

the commotion outside the grocery catches his attention. His

smile fades.

Laz bolts toward the grocery as fast as he can.

INT. FISHERVILLE GROCERY - AFTERNOON

Laz rushes past the gawking customers at the end of the aisle.

A few male workers, including Mark, stand at a distance

watching Rae weep on the floor.

Sandy is being helped up by a co-worker -- her head is

bleeding.

Rae rocks back and forth, her face spotted with flour dust,

the mop held tightly in her grip.

Mark tries to step closer but Rae cries out, thrashing with

the mop handle. They retreat.

Rae lifts her eyes.

QUICK CUTS

The chain pulling around Rae's waist. The radiator clanking

as it is pulled. Laz's hand holding her head to him as she

cries.

INT. FISHERVILLE GROCERY - AFTERNOON

Laz slowly crosses to Rae. She lifts her tear-soaked eyes to

him. He kneels next to her.

He lifts her up in his arms. She sobs into his chest as he

carries her through the onlookers.

Angela is there. She looks confused and shocked.

Laz can't lie anymore. His gaze falls to the floor. He leaves

the store without saying anything to Angela.

EXT. FISHERVILLE SQUARE - AFTERNOON

Ronnie has parked Gill's truck on the square. He starts

walking up to the grocery store.

He sees Laz carrying Rae in his arms. She is sobbing into

his chest, blind to all around her. Ronnie freezes in shock

as Laz approaches.

Laz pushes Ronnie causing him to fall backwards on to the

pavement.

Ronnie watches Laz put Rae in his truck and drive away. A

wave of nausea hits. He turns over and heaves.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - SUNSET

The wooden chimes are deathly still above the porch. The

evening cicadas have begun their chorus.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BATHROOM - SUNSET

Rae is holding her knees to her chest in the tub. Laz sits

next to her, dipping the sponge in the water, gently washing

her back and shoulders.

Laz moves her head back into the palm of his hand to wash

her hair. She stares into his eyes as he squeezes the sponge

on her forehead.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

Rae is wrapped in the quilt, laying on the couch. She is

awake and motionless, helpless to her depression.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Laz sits on the side of his bed. Something is on his mind.

We CUT TO him on his stomach searching for something under

his bed.

Another old guitar case comes out, followed by another, then

another. Finally, Laz stands, an old maroon case in his grip.

He opens the latches on the side and lifts the thin lid,

revealing a gorgeous cream colored electric guitar.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

Rae has not fallen asleep yet. She turns to see Laz entering

the dark room with the maroon guitar case.

EXT. BOJO'S - NIGHT

Laz's truck groans as it bounces into the crowded parking

lot of Bojo's.

Rae steps out, looking beautiful in her sun dress. Laz slams

the door to his truck, guitar case in hand.

They begin walking inside. Rae's watch goes off. She quickly

turns it off. But a faint echo of the alarm can be heard

behind her. She stops and turns toward the truck. The sound

is gone.

They go inside.

Ronnie's hand appears from under the blue tarp in the back

of Laz's truck. He pulls himself out and looks around.

INT. BOJO'S - NIGHT

Laz and Rae stand like strangers by the door. The place is

wall to wall -- people at the bar, people playing pool.

Laz sees the culprit of this show. R.L. is gabbing with Bojo,

a beer in his hand.

As Rae makes her way through the crowd of people, Laz marches

over to R.L.

Bojo turns away to another customer. R.L. grins as he removes

a flask. He offers it to Laz. Laz snaps it away.

Laz and R.L. look over at Rae seated alone at a small table

near the stage.

Laz surprises R.L. by walking away and up onto the stage.

Rae watches as Laz, shakes hands with some of the band

members. A few whistles from the crowd.

Laz sits down at a chair off to the right of a short mic

stand.

He plugs in.

Rae watches curiously as Laz tunes his guitar -- moans of

electric distortion.

R.L. sits next to her.

The drummer kicks in. Laz tears into the strings. The entire

place begins to undulate and bounce as Laz returns to the

blues.

Cheers. Rae watches in awe. She's never seen anything like

it. She is surrounded by couples dancing so close they might

as well be naked. But there is also a great sense of safety

as Laz controls the room with his music.

HERSHEL, a black man in his 30's, asks Rae to dance.

Rae looks up at Laz. Laz smiles and nods. Rae takes the man's

hand and moves out onto the dance floor. R.L. can't be seated

anymore. He stands and stomps his foot.

Rae allows Laz's voice and guitar to take hold of her. Her

face gets wet with sweat as she moves, making love to the

current in the air.

Men are dancing all around her, but now she is in control.

She turns to a young man and shakes, then an old man.

She is free, herself, and above all, safe.

Laz smiles, unaware of Ronnie watching from the window behind

him. There is rage and confusion in his face as he watches

Rae surrounded by dancing limbs.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Both Laz and Rae are drinking water from the sink in tall

glasses like they've been stranded in a desert.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Laz is taking off his shoes, getting ready to crash for the

night. He sits down on the side of his bed and takes off his

shirt, leaving his T-shirt on.

Rae is standing in his doorway.

Rae understands. She crosses to Laz and kisses him on the

cheek.

Rae then walks down the hall to her couch in the front room.

Laz turns off the light.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

Rae enters the dark bathroom and shuts the door behind her.

Her hair is shorter, a shaggy bob, bleached platinum blond.

ARTY, always behind the door, attempts to enter, but Rae

pushes the door closed and locks it.

Rae finds the light switch. She yelps upon seeing Ronnie

crouched by the tub.

Suddenly feeling violated Rae yanks down on her shirt to

hide the fact that she's not wearing anything else.

Ronnie attempts to get up but it's too late, Rae has already

squatted on the commode, pinning Ronnie between her and the

bathtub.

Rae is breathing heavy, her focus is scattered. She's coming

up or coming down from a big burn.

Ronnie tries to look away, trying to make an awkward moment

less awkward. Rae's anxiety is hitting her.

Ronnie nervously considers this before agreeing to open his

mouth. He points into the tub.

Ronnie leans over and dry heaves into the tub. It is painful.

Rae leans forward and touches his back, comforting him.

Ronnie falls back, gripping his stomach, there are tears in

his eyes from the dry heaving. Suddenly emotion hits him.

Rae pulls Ronnie to her. He cries into her shoulder. She

gently rubs his wet face and sings her words of comfort.

Ronnie begins to calm down. The sobbing abates.

The metal music from the party outside is muffled through

the door. The two hold onto each other in silence.

Rae pees. They both giggle, a welcome release of tension.

EXT. LAZARUS' BARN - NIGHT

Ronnie lifts his head from sleep - his memory of Rae has

vanished.

He is leaning against the corner of the barn, his .45 in his

grip. His gaze slowly turns toward Laz's darkened house.

His hand begins to shake.

EXT. LAZARUS' HOME - EARLY MORNING

A crow squawks in the rows of corn. A bright morning is

coming.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - THE BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Laz is still asleep. The sound of clumsy guitar playing,

accompanied by a tiny voice, can be heard.

Laz opens his eyes.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - EARLY MORNING

Laz quietly creeps into the doorway to watch Rae struggle

with the guitar playing. He could stay there for hours

watching this little girl play his guitar.

Rae looks up and sees Laz. She stops playing.

Laz sits next to her and takes the guitar from her.

Rae's playful smile turns serious. Laz continues playing.

Rae opens her eyes with a delightful giggle. Laz continues

playing.

Rae doesn't hesitate to obey. With her eyes closed and Laz

playing, neither can see Ronnie creeping up from the kitchen

with his gun.

Ronnie looks sick with pain as he points the barrel at the

back of Laz's head.

Laz spins around knocking away Ronnie's arm. BAM! The gun

fires into the wall. The guitar cracks on the floor.

Rae screams.

Laz lunges at Ronnie but Ronnie is faster. He spins Laz around

and slams him to the floor, pushing his gun into Laz's face.

Ronnie looks up at Rae, his eyes red with sorrow and rage.

He pushes the gun to the side of Laz's head. Rae cries.

Laz glares back, not saying a word.

Rae moves closer. Ronnie points his gun at her and screams.

Ronnie can't believe what was just said -- mostly, because

it's true. The gun begins to shake in his hand.

Ronnie grips the shaking gun. A severe attack is on the rise

as he listens to Laz.

Ronnie flinches. He tries to control his breathing.

Ronnie almost vomits, but he holds it back.

Rae moves closer to him, wanting to comfort him but she stops

as Ronnie points the gun at her. His eyes pleading for her

to stay back.

A flood of tears are streaming down Ronnie's face. The gun

is shaking furiously in his hand.

Ronnie looks like a scared five year old having an asthma

attack. Laz barks at him one last time.

The last shout from Laz completely destroys Ronnie. His

shoulders slump. The gun lowers in his grasp. A low sob is

heard as he falls to his knees.

Laz snatches the gun from his hand and stands.

Rae inches closer to Ronnie as he kneels over and weeps. She

gently touches his shoulder. He turns his anguished face to

her and tries to speak.

Ronnie hides his face in his hands. Rae throws her arms around

him and holds him tight.

Laz removes the clip and crosses to the kitchen. He slams

the gun on the sink, opens a drawer and removes the wall

phone.

Laz looks at Rae. There is hurt in his eyes.

INT. LAZARUS' HOME - NIGHT

R.L. crosses from the kitchen. He hands a glass of water to

Rae seated on the couch. He hands another to Ronnie seated

next to her. R.L. sits before them as Laz lingers in the

doorway.

Ronnie is very uncomfortable. He looks at Rae seated next to

him and then back at R.L..

Rae starts shaking her head, tears come to her eyes. R.L.

raises a hand to silence her.

Ronnie wipes the tears from his eyes with his shirt sleeve.

R.L. turns to Rae.

Rae takes a deep breath. She looks up at Laz. He encourages

her with a nod.

Rae turns to Ronnie. Her nose is running as she wipes away

her tears.

Ronnie is very moved by Rae's plea. He touches her face and

wipes away a tear.

EXT. ANGELA'S HOME - DAY

The door opens. Angela looks surprised to see Laz. She is

dressed in jeans, a T-shirt, wearing rubber gloves from

cleaning.

Angela notices Rae and Ronnie seated in Laz's truck.

Angela takes a breath and opens the door wider.

INT. ANGELA'S HOME - DAY

It is a small house, but tidy. Angela motions for Laz to

sit.

Angela thinks on this. She rises out of her seat and crosses

to Laz, sitting next to him on the love seat.

They stay locked in each others' sight.

Then, the slowest, most gentle kiss happens between them.

When they separate, Laz is lost in her eyes.

INT. POOL HALL - MORNING

Laz enters the pool hall and spots Tehronne. Tehronne motions

him back. Next to Tehronne is an old black man named PINETOP.

Pinetop grins and produces a black velvet cloth. He opens it

gently and spreads it out, revealing a long, thin, gold chain.

Laz nods, approvingly.

EXT. POOL HALL - BACK DOOR - MORNING

Tehronne leads Laz down the back steps.

They both round the corner, revealing an old Chevy Caprice.

It is light brown except for one door that is gray, however

the chrome rims on the car are impressive -- worth more that

the entire car by a long shot.

Tehronne walks back into the pool hall, leaving Laz alone.

INT. ELLA MAE'S WOMEN'S CLOTHING - DAY

Rhonda has three white dresses over her arm as she hurries

past Ronnie, seated next to the back dressing rooms.

The door doesn't close all the way. He stands and moves in

for a peek. Angela pokes her head out and grins.

INT. ELLA MAE'S WOMEN'S CLOTHING - DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Rae is standing in bra and panties up on a small platform in

front of a tri-divided mirror. Ella Mae takes the dresses

from Rhonda.

Angela sees that Rae is nervous.

EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - LATE DAY

Ronnie is wearing a brown corduroy jacket. He is attempting

to tie his neck tie in the side mirror of Laz's truck.

Lincoln, also wearing his Sunday best, steps up behind him.

Ronnie nods. Lincoln steps behind him to tie the tie.

INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - LATE DAY

Laz is wearing the same suit he wore at the cafe with Rose.

He is seated in Ronnie's trailer, outside the back bedroom

door.

Angela steps out from the bedroom with a grin.

INT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - BACK BEDROOM - LATE DAY

Laz opens the door, carefully looking around the doorjam. He

sees her standing before the dresser mirror. She looks

beautiful, simple, and elegant.

Rae desperately searches Laz's eyes for approval.

Rae bows her head. She fights back tears.

Laz holds her face in his hands. He speaks softly.

His words are piercing and true. Rae nods, decides.

R.L.'s words are heard as Rae wraps her arms around Laz and

rests her head on his chest.

EXT. RONNIE'S TRAILER - LATE DAY

Ronnie turns toward the trailer. He is in his suit, standing

in his front yard -- Lincoln at his side. R.L. stands to the

side with a Bible in his hands.

Ronnie is amazed with what he sees. Laz leads beautiful Rae

down the steps as Angela tends to her side.

Rae holds firm to Laz's arm as they come together on the

green grass to witness and perform this union.

Lazarus takes a few steps with Rae, offering her arm to

Ronnie. Ronnie and Laz stay locked in each other's gaze.

Laz stands next to Angela as Ronnie and Rae face R.L.

together.

They both obey -- each with a serious expression.

Lincoln steps toward Ronnie and holds up the black velvet.

Ronnie takes the gold chain and carefully wraps it around

Rae's waist.

Laz looks on -- a conflicted emotion of joy and loss.

Angela reaches over and takes Laz's hand in hers.

EXT. FREEWAY / INT. RONNIE & RAE'S NEW CAR - DAY

Ronnie is at the wheel of the Chevy Caprice. Rae sits silently

next to him.

Rae looks out the window as a huge 18 wheeler rolls up on

her side. She tries to ignore it and the tension it brings.

She turns to see that Ronnie is sweating. Another truck is

on his side sandwiching them in. An attack is coming over

Ronnie.

His breath is short. His chest tightens. Rae reaches over

and gently strokes the back of his neck.

He breaks. The two trucks zoom ahead as Ronnie breaks to the

side. Dust flies as the Chevy skids to a stop on the side of

the road.

Trucks zip by shaking the car, as Ronnie tries to get control

of his breathing.

Rae tries to stay calm, stroking the back of his neck as he

struggles for breath. He puts his forehead against the wheel

to stave off the building nausea.

Fear comes to Rae's face as she notices her middle finger

scratching at the back of Ronnie's neck. She pulls it away

and shoves her hand between her thighs.

Her eyes close as the burning builds. She grips the gold

chain around her waist.

QUICK CUTS

The chain, tight around Rae as she struggles. Rae panting

and sweating on Laz's floor. She reaches out. Her hand lands

on the strings of his guitar. A single string is plucked.

EXT. FREEWAY/ INT. RONNIE & RAE'S NEW CAR - DAY

Rae opens her eyes -- the low note still sounding in her

head. She places her hand back on his neck. And then, soft

as a prayer:

Ronnie slowly turns and looks at Rae, his head still resting

on the steering wheel. The panting has slowed. Color starts

returning to his cheeks.

The anxiety is gone. Ronnie takes a breath and looks at Rae,

humbled and thankful of her power to soothe him.

Rae is smiling.

