LANDSCAPES

An opening voice-over plays against dissolving Texas

landscapes--broad, bare, and lifeless.

ROAD  NIGHT

We are rushing down a rain-swept country road, listening to

the rhythmic swish of tires on wet asphalt.

INT. CAR NIGHT

We are looking at the backs of two people in the front seat--

a man, driving, and a woman next to him.

Their conversation will be punctuated by the occasional glare

of oncoming headlights and the roar of the car rushing by.

The windshield wipers wave a soporific beat. The conversation

is halting, awkward.

Pause, as an oncoming car passes. Finally:

Another car passes.

Another pause. Another car.

Suddenly:

CLOSE SHOT BRAKE

Stamped on.

EXT. CAR

Low three-quarters on the car as it squeals to a halt.

A car that has been following screeches to a halt just behind

it.

Both cars sit.

Rain patters.

INT. FIRST CAR

Close on the man, from behind.

He looks at the woman.

She doesn't answer. He turns to look back and we see his

face, for the first time, in the headlights of the car behind.

HIS POV

The car behind them waiting, patiently. Rain drifts down

past its headlights.

Finally it pulls out and passes them slowly, their headlights

showing it to be a battered green Volkswagon. First the car

itself, then its red taillights, disappear into the rain.

BACK TO THE MAN

Cutting between him and the woman, each from behind.

She looks at the man.

The man is uncomfortable.

The woman is uncomfortable. After a long pause:

MOTEL ROOM

Pulling back from RAY and ABBY in bed, making love.

The only light is from cars passing along the highway outside.

Each sweeping light-by ends in black.

The pullback ends in a wide shot of the motel room. The black

following the last car lingers.

A telephone rings.

SAME WIDE SHOT  MORNING

Ray and Abby are asleep. On a nightstand next to the bed,

the telephone is ringing.

Ray stirs, reaches for the phone.

A silence at both ends.

Ray listens to another silence. It ends with a disconnect.

Abby is stirring as Ray gets out of bed.

BAR BACK OFFICE  NIGHT

We are tracking past a man seated behind a wooden desk,

towards an 8 x 10 black-and-white photograph that has just

been slapped down on the desktop.

The picture is of Abby and Ray in bed together in the motel

room.

The voice is familiar as that of the narrator whose musings

on life in Texas and the Soviet Union opened the movie.

We cut to him.

He is settling himself into a chair facing the desk. He is

LOREN VISSER, a large unshaven man in a misshapen yellow

leisure suit.

He smiles at the man behind the desk.

JULIAN MARTY

Sits staring down at the photograph. Behind him a window

opens on the bar proper. Country-western music filters in

from the bar.

Marty is not pleased.

He removes a pouch of tobacco from his breast pocket and

nonchalantly starts rolling a cigarette.

He lights his cigarette, then slaps his lighter onto the

desktop.

It is silver, engraved on the top with a lariat spelling out

"Loren" in script, and on the side with a declaration that

he is "Elks Man of the Year."

Marty stares down at the photograph.

A smoke ring floats into frame from offscreen.

Marty rises and goes to a safe behind his desk.

Visser laughs as he watches Marty.

Marty, hunched over the standing safe behind his desk, tosses

in the photograph and takes out a pay envelope.

Visser blows another smoke ring, pushes a fat finger through

the middle of it, and beams at Marty.

Marty scales the pay envelope across the desk. It hits Visser

in the chest and bounces to the floor.

Visser looks stonily down at the envelope; no expression for

a beat. Then he roars with laughter.

Sighing, he leans forward to pick up the envelope. He rises,

straightens his cowboy hat, and walks over to a screen door

letting out on the bar's back parking lot.

He pauses at the door, cocks his head, then turns back to

the desk and picks up his cigarette lighter. Returning to

the door:

The door slams shut behind him.

Marty scowls at the back door. After a moment he rises and

crosses the office to the window looking out on the bar.

Over Marty's shoulder we see the long bar leading up to the

window in perpendicular. The camera is tracking forward,

past Marty, to frame on the window.

A black man is just now vaulting the near end of the bar,

over onto the customer side.

MARTY'S BAR

REVERSE ANGLE  VAULTING MAN

Tracking back with him as he lands on the customer side and

heads across the bar. This shot, from the other side of the

back-office window, reveals the window to be one-way glass

mirrored on this side

MEURICE, the black bartender, is muscular, about 200 pounds,

dressed in white pants and a sleeveless T-shirt. He is making

his way through the crowd towards the jukebox.

Another man stands in front of it examining the selections.

He deposits a quarter.

Meurice shakes his head and punches the selector buttons on

the jukebox.

A Motown song drops. We track behind Meurice as he makes his

way back toward the bar. When he reaches it, he claps a couple

of people on the shoulder, who make way for him. He vaults

back over the top, walks down the bar, and stops in from of

an attractive white woman sitting on a bar stool and sipping

a brandy.

Marty is approaching from the direction of the office.

Marty loses his glare and his gaze drifts over to the woman.

After an awkward pause, Meurice clears his throat.

She is unselfconsciously returning Marty's stare.

Meurice walks down the bar.

Marty studies her for a beat, she studies him, he smiles.

Marty laughs.

Marty smiles bleakly. Debra drains her glass as Meurice

returns. He sets another Cognac in front of Debra, and a

glass of milk in front of Marty.

He wanders on down the bar; Marty's attention returns to the

woman.

Marty's attention is caught by something down the bar. He

half-rises from his stool.

HIS POV

Meurice is pouring the milk down the sink. He looks innocently

up.

BACK TO MARTY

Angry but not knowing what to say. He glances around the

bar, sinks slowly back onto his stool.

Marty sits staring across the bar for a moment, nods a couple

of times at nothing in particular, then looks back at the

woman.

Marty tosses a beer nut into his mouth.

Debra gives him a level stare.

They both fall silent as Meurice enters frame. He takes a

bottle from the bar and pours himself a drink.

Marty tosses back Meurice's drink, then turns to Debra,

smiling.

Debra watches him go, then turns back to Meurice.

MARTY'S HOUSE  TRACKING DOWN HALLWAY

We are following a large German shepherd as it pads down the

hall toward a warmly lit room at its end. We hear only the

sound of the dog's paws on the hardwood floor, and the faint

clicking of billiard balls.

BILLIARD ROOM

It is a paneled, carpeted room with black leather furniture

and a nine-foot billiard table. Various stuffed animal

trophies are scattered around the room, including a moose

head mounted on one wall. Ray stands alone in the foreground,

shooting pool, an unlit cigarette in his mouth. The room is

very quiet.

In the background the German shepherd enters from the hallway,

sits down in a corner, and benignly watches Ray.

UPSTAIRS BEDROOM

It is expensively appointed; a brightly lit woman's bedroom.

Abby is opening a hinged drawer in a white antique bureau.

She pulls out a leather handbag, gropes nervously through

its contents, then puts it aside.

She crosses the room to a vanity table, takes a purse from

underneath, and spills its contents out on top of the table.

BILLIARD ROOM

Ray pockets a couple of balls, looks over at the dog, then

up at the wall at the far end of the room.

RAY'S POV

Hanging on the wall are a couple of framed photographs of

Marty and Abby, taken a long time ago.

BACK TO RAY

Staring at the pictures. He looks back down at the pool table.

UPSTAIRS BEDROOM

Abby is sitting on a large double bed. She puts aside another

purse, rises and crosses the room hurriedly, and pushes back

the sliding doors of a long wardrobe closet. The upper shelf

is lined with handbags--fifteen or twenty of them. She grabs

the first one, looks in, tosses it aside; grabs the second,

looks--and stops.

HER POV

Inside the purse, a small pearl-handled gun.

BILLIARD ROOM

Ray is now standing in front of the pictures on the wall,

looking from one to the next.

RAY'S POV

A picture of Abby and Marty standing together on a Gulf beach.

Marty is wearing a long velour beach robe, Abby is in a

swimming suit. Ray's hand enters frame. He traces a finger

down her leg.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

His head cocked to the side. After a moment his eyes shift.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT  PHOTO DETAIL

Of Marty's face. He is staring into the camera, at whoever

took the picture. His head is thrown back slightly; he is

laughing.

From offscreen in the quiet room we hear a static hum and

then Abby's voice over an intercom.

BACK TO RAY

He turns from the photograph and walks to an intercom speaker

next to the mounted moose's head. He presses the speaker

button.

He idly takes his unlit cigarette and sticks it in the moose's

mouth.

MARTY'S FRONT FOYER

We are looking across a dark, high-ceilinged foyer toward

the front door. Ray leans against the doorjamb, in silhouette

in the open doorway. He is facing a curved staircase that

descends into the foyer. Abby appears at the second-floor

landing and starts down the stairs.

As she reaches the bottom of the stairs:

MARTY'S BAR

The crowd has thinned out. Meurice and Debra are in the

foreground.

Ray enters from the street and makes his way over to them.

He pours Debra another drink and starts to set one up for

Ray.

Ray nods at Debra.

EXT. BACK OF MARTY'S BAR

Marty is sitting on the stoop that descends from his back

office to a graveled back parking lot; he is framed in the

open doorway of his brightly lit office. He stares fixedly

at something offscreen.

MARTY'S POV

In the middle distance a huge incinerator operates full blast.

Orange flames lick out the sides; white smoke billows out

the top. Two figures in silhouette are chucking garbage in

through a large gate.

BACK TO MARTY

Behind him, in the office, we see the door from the bar open,

and Ray entering.

Marty looks over his shoulder, then back toward the furnace.

Ray descends the stoop and stands in front of him.

Marty stares past Ray across the parking lot.

Ray tenses. There is a pause.

Marty still stares at the furnace.

Marty shakes his head.

He finally looks up at Ray.

Ray breaks into a strained half-smile.

Marty grins humorlessly back, mimicking Ray's smile.

He grabs a knee in each hand and leans forward, still looking

at Ray. He is becoming only slightly more animated.

He leans back again.

Ray moves forward and Marty's eyes follow him as he

approaches. Marty's smile abruptly turns to a look of

apprehension. Ray enters frame and brushes past Marty as he

walks up the stoop, and crosses the back office toward the

bar.

Marty relaxes, and his gaze returns to the furnace.

Ray opens the door to the bar and shuts it softly behind

him.

MARTY'S OFFICE  LATER

CLOSE SHOT  CEILING FAN

At the cut the music and all other bar noise drops out. We

hear only the rhythmic whir of the fan. We tilt down from

the ceiling fan to frame Marty, tilted back in his desk chair,

staring up at the fan.

WIDE SHOT  THE OFFICE

Meurice is standing in the door to the bar. Far behind him

we can see Debra waiting in the dimly lit, deserted bar.

Meurice pauses in the doorway.

Meurice and Debra can be heard leaving the bar. Marty looks

down at the telephone in front of him on the desk, then picks

up the receiver and dials. He tilts back in the chair and

stares back up at the ceiling.

MARTY'S POV

The ceiling fan, turning slowly.

EXT. RAY'S BUNGALOW FROM INSIDE RAY'S CAR

In the foreground Ray sits behind the wheel of his parked

car, slumped back against the seat. He is staring at his one-

story bungalow, in which a couple of lights are burning.

Inside we can faintly hear his telephone ringing.

It rings for a long time.

RAY'S LIVING ROOM

CLOSE SHOT  THE RINGING TELEPHONE

Abby's hand enters frame, hesitates, then after another ring

picks up.

The is no answer. From the other end we hear only the rhythmic

whir of a ceiling fan.

MARTY'S OFFICE

Marty listens. He says nothing, still tilted back in his

chair, staring at the ceiling.

RAY'S LIVING ROOM

Abby listens. She shifts the phone to her other ear, listening

hard to the sound of the fan. There is another long pause.

The phone goes dead just as we hear the front door opening.

Abby looks up as she cradles the phone.

Ray is standing in the doorway.

Ray leans against the door and folds his arms, watching Abby.

Abby looks at him, puzzled. After an uncomfortable pause:

Abby shifts uneasily, looking at Ray.

Ray walks toward the bedroom.

MARTY'S OFFICE  LATER

Still tilted back in his chair, Marty stares glumly at the

ceiling. The bar itself is completely still except the

rhythmic whir of the fan.

CLOSE SHOT  A CEILING FAN

Turning slowly. We tilt down from the fan to frame Abby,

lying under a sheet on Ray's couch, staring up at the fan in

the darkened living room. The room is still. We hear only

the whir of the fan and the distant sound of crickets. Abby

turns her head, looking offscreen.

HER POV

A ray of light slants up the hallway from the direction of

the bedroom. The light is snapped off, leaving the hallway

in darkness. We hear a faint cough and the creaking of

bedsprings.

RAY'S BEDROOM

Ray lies in bed, staring at the ceiling.

RAY'S LIVING ROOM / HALLWAY

LONG SHOT  THE LIVING ROOM  FROM THE HALLWAY

Abby sits up. She stands and walks across the moonlit room

toward the hallway. We pull her back down the hall toward

the bedroom. She pauses in the bedroom doorway and looks

down toward the bed.

ABBY'S POV

Ray in bed, his eyes closed.

BACK TO ABBY

We pull her as she enters the room, then tilt down with her

as she hesitantly sits on the edge of the bed.

ABBY'S POV

Close shot, Ray asleep.

BACK TO ABBY

Framed against a moonlit window from the shoulders up.

There is a long pause.

Ray's hand enters frame and pulls Abby down out of frame

onto the bed. We hold on the moonlit window.

SAME WINDOW  SAME ANGLE  PRE-DAWN

Through the window the slow dissolve gradually defines the

front lawn and the street beyond in the flat pre-dawn light.

Abby rises into frame and quietly gets out of bed. The camera

tracks behind her as she walks up the hallway into the living

room.

We follow her across the living room and move into a close

shot on her hand as she reaches into her purse and withdraws

a small plastic compact.

LOW-ANGLE CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

She flips open the compact, then, hearing something, looks

up, squinting across the room.

ABBY'S POV

In the shadows at the far end of the room we can just see

two pointed ears and a glittering pair of eyes. The German

shepherd is panting softly.

OVER ABBY'S SHOULDER

As she peers into the shadows, her face reflected in the

mirror of the open compact.

In the mirror something moves just behind her. Abby starts

to turn.

Marty's hand clamps over her mouth from behind. His other

hand circles her waist. Abby struggles.

Marty's hand drops from her waist to her thighs and slides

under the robe.

Still holding her from behind, Marty forces her down on her

knees. Abby's cries are muffled by the hand clamped over her

mouth. Marty shoots a glance down the dark hallway. There is

no movement.

Abby's hand is groping forward out of frame.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY'S PURSE

She upsets it. The contents spill out, among them a small

pearl-handled revolver. Her hand gropes for the gun.

BACK TO ABBY AND MARTY

Marty yanks her to her feet, looking down the hallway.

He is dragging her to the front door.

He pushes her through the screen door.

EXT. RAY'S BUNGALOW

The neighborhood is deserted and still. The streetlamps are

still on. Marty and Abby stumble down the front stoop onto

the lawn.

His hand is still clamped over her mouth. She reaches up,

grabs a finger, and bends it back.

We hear the bone snap.

Marty screams. His hand drops. His other hand cuffs her on

the side of the head, spinning her around.

Marty is now clutching his broken finger with his good hand.

Abby kicks him in the groin.

He sinks to his knees, drops forward on one hand, and vomits.

FRONT STOOP

Ray is coming out the door, hitching up his pants. In his

right hand he hold Abby's pearl-handled revolver.

MARTY

Slowly gets to his feet, looking at Ray.

ABBY

She has backed away from Marty and now stands on the lawn,

breathing heavily. She looks from Ray to Marty.

BACK TO MARTY

Backing toward his car, a Cadillac parked at curbside, still

looking at Ray. He turns to get into the car.

The German shepherd lopes across the lawn and takes a clean

leap into the car through the open window on the passenger

side.

Marty turns the ignition. The engine coughs and dies. He

tries again; it starts.

The car roars up the street.

RAY

Watching the car. He looks at Abby.

ABBY

Still panting. Up the street we can hear Marty's car

alternately racing and stopping, shifting in and out of gear.

His engine rumble starts to grow louder again.

In the background we see Marty's car roar by in the opposite

direction.

MOUNT BONNEL  EVENING

LATERAL TRACK

Moving past a row of cars parked on an overlook near the top

of the mountain. Below we can see the lights of the city of

Austin. The lot is littered with beer cans. We hear the sound

of rock music coming from various car radios. Several

teenagers lean against cars drinking beer; inside the cars

we can see the vague forms of others.

His friends laugh.

TRACK PULLING MARTY

Ignoring the laughter as he walks past the cars, apparently

looking for someone. His right index finger is taped up in

an aluminum splint.

MARTY'S POV

At the end of a row of cars we see a green Volkswagon bug.

Leaning against the hood is Visser, still dressed in his

rumpled yellow suit. He is smoking a cigarette, talking to a

sixteen-year-old girl in shorts and a tube top. When he

notices Marty:

The girl drifts off. Marty enters frame and Visser turns to

him.

Visser open the back door of the car. Marty ignores the

invitation, walks around to the front on the passenger side

and gets in.

INT. VISSER'S CAR

As Visser gets into the driver's seat. A small topless doll

is suspended from the rearview mirror. Visser gives it a

tap. As it swings back and forth two small lights, one behind

each breast, blink on and off.

Both men sit watching the doll intently.

Finally Marty reaches up and stops its swinging with the

rounded end of his splint. Visser eyes the splint.

Marty is silent, but Visser is in a good mood.

Overcome by laughter. Finally:

Visser shrugs, lights up another cigarette with his

fraternally inscribed lighter and drops the lighter onto the

dashboard.

Marty doesn't answer. Finally Visser laughs.

Visser eyes him, still smiling. Finally he shrugs.

Marty's shoulders slump. He seems less tense, almost relieved.

They are staring at each other.

Visser laughs again.

He turns and gazes out the window.

He falls silent again, still staring out the window

In the closeness of the car Marty is starting to sweat.

Marty is slumped in his seat, not responding to the fact

that Visser has just ended the conversation.

Finally he rouses himself and gets out of the car, leaving

Visser staring at the door he has left open behind him.

After a moment we hear Marty's footsteps approaching again,

and he leans back into the open door with an afterthought.

These words are difficult to say.

The two men look at each other. Marty leaves. After a moment,

Visser leans over to grab the handle of the still open door.

The door slams.

INT. EMPTY APARTMENT  NIGHT

The apartment is dark. We are looking across a shadowy floor

towards a large window, through which cold blue street light

shines. Through the window we can see the facade of the

building across the street; we are three or four floors up.

We can hear the animated, accented voice of an Hispanic woman

approaching the apartment from the hallway behind us.

A crack of light shoots across the floor as we hear the

apartment door open behind us. A figure enters frame. As it

crosses into the shaft of light we see that it is Abby. She

moves across the dark apartment, in silhouette against the

window.

An overhead light is switched on and the room is bathed in

light. Several feet from Abby, an old man in a dirty

undershirt is asleep on a cot. Abby starts.

The old man grumbles, slowly sits up, squints.

With the light, the window behind Abby has become a mirror

of the entire room, in which we now see the matronly Landlady

standing by the wall switch.

The Landlady roars at the old man in Spanish. The man glowers

at her. The Landlady looks back at Abby.

We follow Abby as she accompanies the landlady back into the

short hallway-entrance foyer. Abby glances back at the old

man.

The Landlady laughs cheerfully.

She gestures to a kitchen alcove on the left.

She turns and throws a few more barbs in Spanish back toward

the old man, then opens a door on the right side of the foyer

and enters the bathroom.

She flushes the toilet.

She bustles out of the bathroom and takes the two short steps

back into the main room. She gestures expansively.

She gives one vigorous stomp.

She points.

The old man is now sitting on the edge of the bed, smoking a

cigarette, looking for a place to put the ash. The Landlady

snaps at him again in Spanish, and is again cheerful as she

turns back to address Abby.

She walks to the apartment door.

She walks out and shuts the door.

The room is quiet.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

Staring at the door. She looks at Mr. Garcia, looks nervously

around the apartment. She looks back at Mr. Garcia.

CLOSE SHOT  MR. GARCIA

Staring vacantly at Abby. He blows a stream of smoke across

the room. The ash falls off his cigarette.

STRIP BAR  NIGHT

EXHORTER'S CUBICLE

Hunched over the public address microphone in his small

cubicle of exhortation, is the middle-aged strip-bar barker.

Years of service in the bar have left his exhortations

depressingly bereft of conviction.

THE BAR PROPER

Meurice is one of a line of men sitting at the bar, all

looking intently at the same point off left. All of the men

except Meurice are conservatively dressed and apparently

well-to-do. An audio loop is blaring a bump-and-grind version

of "Yellow Rose of Texas," punctuated by the crash of cymbals

and the thumping of toms.

Abby enters and sits into an empty chair next to Meurice.

Meurice continues to stare intently off.

All of the heads at the bar start to swivel, including

Meurice's. A couple of patrons hurriedly snatch their drinks

off the bar.

In the extreme foreground a stripper dances on the top of

the bar into frame. We crop her just above her white high-

heeled cowboy boots and her bare calves.

The conversation continues with Abby looking at Meurice, but

Meurice and everyone else at the bar looking up at a point

somewhere above the stripper's calves.

The stripper drops a white leatherette vest onto the bar in

the foreground. The audience cheers.

Two sheriff-star pasties drop onto the bar. The audience

cheers.

THE EXHORTER

Into his microphone.

ABBY AND MEURICE

She is rising to leave; he is still staring off.

An old-west gunbelt hits the bar. The audience roars.

THE EXHORTER

Into his microphone.

RAY'S BEDROOM

The room is dark. We are looking across the room toward a

moonlit window. Beyond, across the lawn, the lamplit street

is empty.

Suddenly Abby sits bolt upright into frame from the bed below.

Offscreen we hear Ray stirring in bed.

Abby twists around to look down at him.

He pulls her down out of frame and we hold on the window and

the empty lamplit street. Then Abby rises back into frame,

in silhouette against the window, looking down at Ray.

She taps herself on the forehead.

HIGH ANGLE  RAY

Looking up at Abby.

SIDE ANGLE  ABBY

Framed against the window, looking down at Ray.

She drops down onto the bed out of frame. The camera holds

on the window through which we see the empty lamplit street.

She rises back up into frame, in silhouette against the

window.

HIGH ANGLE  RAY

His eyes half-closed.

SIDE ANGLE  ABBY

Framed against the window.

Ray's hand rises into frame and coaxes Abby back down onto

the bed, revealing, through the window, a green Volkswagon

now parked at curbside on the lamplit street.

We hear the rustle of sheets.

As we hold on the window, we begin to hear the faint, distant

sound of metal scraping against metal.

HALLWAY / LIVING ROOM

We track down the dark hallway into the living room. As the

camera advances the sound of the scraping becomes louder.

We are moving across the living room up to the front door of

the bungalow. The scraping is louder still as we finally

frame on a close shot of the doorknob, which is jiggling

ever so slightly.

We hear a click as the lock finally releases.

The door swings slowly open, revealing a man's hand on the

outside doorknob. We follow the hand as the man advances

slowly and quietly across the living room.

Abby's purse comes into frame, sitting on a bureau; next to

it is a large tote bag. The hand rummages through the tote

bag briefly, then the purse. The man withdraws Abby's pearl-

handled revolver. He breaks it open.

LOW-ANGLE CLOSE SHOT  THE MAN'S FACE

It is Visser. As we hear a click offscreen, his face glows a

dim orange.

BACK TO HIS HANDS

His right holds the revolver, cylinder open, inside the purse.

His left holds his cigarette lighter as he inspects the

chamber. Three of the holes glint silver, the other three

are black--empty.

We hear the faint creaking of bedsprings.

WIDE SHOT  LIVING ROOM

Visser cocks his head, listening, and looks down the hallway.

He takes a couple of quiet steps across the living room and,

as the camera tracks up to him, opens the back door of the

bungalow.

We follow him outside onto the lawn.

EXT. RAY'S BUNGALOW

We track behind him as he rounds the corner of the house and

approaches the open window to Ray's bedroom. He slows, moves

more cautiously, then sinks to his knees under the window.

As he reaches into his breast pocket the camera continues

tracking up to and over him, finally framing his POV through

the window.

On the bed inside we can dimly see Abby and Ray, asleep.

We have been hearing a faint rumble, becoming louder and

louder as if approaching from a distance. Just as the rumble

becomes deafening a sudden bright flash of light illuminates

the room, seeming to polarize the image of Abby and Ray in

bed, and we:

EXT. PHONE BOOTH DAY

A huge truck roars by on the street behind Visser, and with

it the deafening rumble recedes. It is a painfully bright

day. Visser stands sweating in the phone booth with the

receiver pressed to his ear. We hear the phone ringing at

the other end.

Finally, it is picked up.

Visser forces a chuckle.

MARTY'S OFFICE  NIGHT

CLOSE SHOT  TWO STRINGS OF FISH

Being plopped down onto Marty's desk.

WIDER  THE OFFICE

Visser sits facing the desk. He lights himself a cigarette

and sets the lighter down on the desk in front of him. Marty

settles, fidgeting, into the chair behind it.

The bar is quiet, shut down. We hear only the whir of a fan

somewhere offscreen. Marty and Visser are lit by a lamp on

the desk between them. Light streams into the room from a

bathroom in the background. Visser is looking at the dead

fish.

Marty half-rises from his seat and picks up one of the

strings.

He drops them on Visser's side of the desk. Visser's head

draws back: he was only being polite.

Visser hands a 9 x 12 envelope across the desk. Marty stares

at it for a moment, then quickly bends back the flap and

takes out an 8 x 10 photograph.

THE PHOTOGRAPH

It is a black-and-white shot of Abby and Ray in Ray's bed.

The sheet that partially covers them is pocked with three

dark bullet holes and is stained with blood.

MARTY

Staring dully down at the picture.

CLOSE SHOT  THE TOP OF THE DESK

Visser is pushing the fish away from his side of the desk

with the eraser end of a pencil.

BACK TO MARTY

Still looking at the picture. He traces the outline of Abby's

body with his finger.

Marty slips the picture back into its 9 x 12 envelope. His

face is pale.

He rises and heads for the bathroom, still clutching the

envelope.

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER

As his eyes follow Marty's exit. The bathroom door doesn't

close all the way; a narrow shaft of light slices the office

from the bare bulb in the bathroom.

He turns to look across the desk.

VISSER'S POV

The standing safe behind the desk.

BACK TO VISSER

Still looking at the safe. Beads of sweat have popped out on

his forehead. He fans himself with his cowboy hat.

We hear a toilet flush offscreen.

LONG SHOT  MARTY'S OFFICE

As he reenters the office.

Visser stares dully down at the desktop.

HIGH ANGLE  CORNER OF THE OFFICE

Marty is hunched over the open safe, still holding the

envelope. Blocking Visser's view of the safe with his body,

he slides the picture of Abby's and Ray's corpses from under

the envelope into the safe, then withdraws two packets of

money.

He shuts the safe and spins the dial.

He walks across the room and throws the money and the envelope

down on the desk.

Visser looks from the money down at his hands. They are

sweating.

He wipes his hands on his pants.

Marty sits and props his booted feet up on the desk.

He smiles.

He nods toward the envelope on the desk.

He pushes the money across the desk with his boot.

His hand comes out with a gun pointing at Marty and--BAM--he

fires, an orange lick of flame spurting from the gun.

Both men sit frozen. Visser's hand is the only thing that

moved.

CLOSE SHOT  MARTY

Staring at Visser.

After the gun blast we hear only the whir of the fan.

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER

Staring at Marty.

MED SHOT  MARTY  OVER VISSER'S SHOULDER

His eyes are now shut. Otherwise he hasn't moved. A blood

stain is growing on the front of his shirt.

WIDE SHOT  THE OFFICE

The two face each other across the desk. Visser's gun is

still trained on Marty.

After a moment Visser starts fanning himself again with his

cowboy hat. The only movement in the frame is the slow back-

and-forth of the yellow hat, rhythmically in and out of shadow

as it catches and loses the light from the desk lamp. There

is a long pause.

Finally one of Marty's feet slips from the desk and hits the

floor with a THUD.

Visser lays the gun on the desk.

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER

As he reaches into his breast pocket and withdraws a

handkerchief. He wipes his forehead, then picks up the gun

and wipes it off. He leans down with the gun.

CLOSE SHOT  THE GUN

As Visser places it deliberately on the floor near the desk.

It is Abby's pearl-handled revolver.

THE DESKTOP  FROM DESK LEVEL

As Visser straightens up in the foreground. From our head-on

angle shooting across the desk we can see the bright metallic

glint of Visser's cigarette lighter underneath the dead fish.

Visser's hands move over the near part of the desk, picking

up the money and the 9 x 12 picture envelope.

EXTREME HIGH SHOT  THE OFFICE

As Visser turns from the desk and walks across the room out

of frame. We hear the back door opening.

The door slams shut.

The only sound is the whir of the fan. A pause. The camera

tracks slowly forward, tilting down to keep Marty and the

desktop centered in frame. As the camera moves the noise of

the fan grows louder. When Marty's body and the desk are

directly beneath us, the blades of the ceiling fan cut across

the immediate foreground and effect a:

MARTY'S BAR  LATER

It is completely still. We are looking from the bar, across

the dark empty floor, toward the pebbled windows at the front

of the building that catch a hard blue light from the

streetlamps outside. The jukebox in the middle distance glows

in the darkness.

A pair of headlights catches the pebbled glass and grows

brighter as we hear a car pull up to the bar and stop. We

hear a car door open and shut, then the sound of feet on

gravel. A huge shadow appears on the pebbled glass as the

figure crosses in front of the headlights. The man tries the

door, finds it locked, and walks back in front of the

headlights to cup his hands at a window. He walks back to

the door, and a moment later it swings open--framing him in

the doorway in silhouette.

We follow him as he moves across the floor, behind the bar

and up to the cash register. He switches on a small

fluorescent light clamped to the top of the cash register.

It is Ray.

He punches a key and the register rings open. He lifts up

the empty cash drawer and takes some papers from underneath

it.

RAY'S POV

As he flips through the papers; bills, receipts, no money.

BACK TO RAY

As he finishes flipping through the papers.

He slips them back under the cash drawer and slams the

register shut. Turning from the register he glances around

the bar, the pauses, noticing something.

RAY'S POV

Light is spilling out from under the door to Marty's office.

BACK TO RAY

As he starts across the floor to Marty's office.

He reaches the door and knocks sharply. No answer. He turns

the knob.

The door is locked. We hear the muffled whir of the ceiling

fan inside.

A pause. Ray withdraws a ring of keys from his pocket and

uses one on the door. The door swings open.

Over his shoulder we see Marty, still at his desk, his back

to us. On foot is still propped on the desk.

No answer.

Ray stumbles toward Marty.

He stumbles slightly and we hear the sharp blast of a gun

and the sound of something metallic skating across the floor.

Ray, startled, steadies himself against the desk, then studies

Marty.

RAY'S POV

There is a dark pool of blood under Marty's chair.

BACK TO RAY

He looks back up at Marty, then walks behind his chair and

throws a wall switch. The room is bathed in light. His eyes

still on Marty, Ray crosses behind the desk.

RAY'S POV  TRACKING SHOT

The camera moves in a slow arc around the back of Marty's

motionless head.

BACK TO RAY

Still moving. He looks away from Marty, scans the floor. He

gets down on his hands and knees and peers under the safe.

RAY'S POV

There is a glinting silver circle in the darkness under the

safe. It is the business end of the revolver that Ray half-

stumbled over, half-kicked.

BACK TO RAY

Still on his hands and knees. He reaches in and we hear a

rattle as he gropes under the safe. He withdraws the gun,

looks at it.

THE GUN

It is Abby's revolver.

BACK TO RAY

For a long moment he doesn't move. Then, slowly, he starts

to get up.

WIDER

The desk, Marty behind it, Ray straightening behind him. Ray

looks from the gun to Marty, slowly sets the gun down on the

desk. A pause. He begins to hoist Marty from the chair.

There is noise from the bar, as of someone entering.

Ray reacts.

THE DOOR

Separating the bar and back office. Ray hurries to it.

Footsteps approach the door.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT  RAY'S HAND ON THE DOOR BOLT

He turns it gently. The bolt clicks shut.

BACK TO RAY

Meurice's footsteps draw nearer.

There is a rap at the door; Ray stands frozen. The doorknob

rattles. Ray reaches out compulsively to grab it, but stops

himself before actually touching it.

Now Meurice's footsteps can be heard going casually back

into the bar. We hold on Ray's rigidly set face.

We hear a record drop on the jukebox and a Motown song blares.

Ray crosses to Marty's chair and takes off his nylon

windbreaker. He stoops down and tries to mop up the pool of

blood with his windbreaker. This isn't going to work.

He rises and walks over to the bathroom, the windbreaker

dripping blood.

MARTY'S OFFICE BATHROOM

CLOSE SHOT  FAUCET

The song continues faintly in the background. The faucet is

turned on and Ray's hand enters frame, holding a dirty white

towel under the stream of water.

BLOOD-SPATTERED FLOOR

The song continues in the background. Ray's hand enters frame

holding the balled-up towel. His windbreaker is wrapped

inside. The camera follows as he pushes it across the trail

of dripped blood to the pool of blood under Marty's chair.

CLOSE SHOT  MARTY

He still has not moved. Ray rises into frame and takes him

under the armpits. He notices something on the desk in front

of him.

CLOSE SHOT  THE GUN ON THE DESK

Ray's hand enters frame and picks it up.

CLOSE SHOT  MARTY'S COAT POCKET

Ray's hand enters frame and slips the gun into Marty's pocket.

Marty is hoisted up.

EXT. BACK OF THE BAR / PARKING LOT

Ray appears in the doorway. The music from the bar, though

fainter, can still be heard.

There are three or four wooden steps going down from the

back door to the small gravel parking lot in back. Ray backs

down the stairs; Marty's feet THUMP-THUMP-THUMP down the

stairs after him.

The rear door of Ray's car is open. Ray heaves in Marty's

torso. Marty's legs rest on the ground outside the car. Ray

takes an ankle in each hand and pushes.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

As he shuts the door. He looks up across the parking lot.

RAY'S POV

The incinerator belching fire and smoke. We hear its distant

roar over the bar song. We hear the car door slam.

HIGH-ANGLE TRACKING SHOT  TOWARD INCINERATOR

We are looking down on Ray's car as the camera tracks behind

it towards the incinerator. At the cut the roar of the

incinerator is suddenly louder. It grows louder still as we

approach it.

Ray's car draws even with the incinerator without slowing or

stopping. The wadded-up towel is chucked out of his window

into the fire. We hold on the fire as Ray's car rolls on out

of frame.

INT. RAY'S CAR

As he drives down a deserted country highway. We hear the

rhythmic sound of the wheels clomping over asphalt. The radio

is broadcasting a fundamentalist's sermon, periodically

interrupted by static. Ray is sweating.

Ray twists around and looks in the back seat.

RAY'S POV

Marty is lying inert.

BACK TO RAY

He looks back at the road. A car roars by.

Ray switches off the radio.

We hear the sound of faint, labored breathing.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT  RAY

His jaw tightens. He whips his head toward the back seat.

His head snaps forward again and he slams on the brakes.

The car screeches to a halt.

EXT. HIGHWAY

LONG SHOT  THE CAR

As Ray's door flies open. He is bolting from the car. The

camera, at waist level, tracks toward him as he races out

into the field that abuts the highway.

Fifty yards in he finally stops, panting, framed from a low

angle. His breath vaporizes in the crisp night air. We hear

only his breath and the chirring of crickets. He is looking

back toward the road.

RAY'S POV  LONG SHOT  THE CAR

Standing abandoned on the shoulder of the deserted highway.

Its headlights cast a lonely beam up the road. No movement.

BACK TO RAY

His panting slows. He is in a cold sweat. After a long moment,

he starts walking slowly, reluctantly, back toward the car.

RAY'S POV  TRACKING

Toward the car. Still no sign of movement.

BACK TO RAY

He slows as he draws up to the back of the car. He looks in

the back window.

RAY'S POV  BACK SEAT OF THE CAR

It is empty.

The door on the highway side is ajar.

BACK TO RAY

No reaction.

He walks around the back of the car onto the highway. He

looks up the road.

RAY'S POV

Marty is crawling up the road on his hands and knees, leaving

a trail of blood. The headlights of Ray's car give a

fantastically long shadow.

BACK TO RAY

Still no reaction. He gets into the driver's seat and stares

through the windshield as he gropes for the ignition key.

RAY'S POV

Marty, crawling.

BACK TO RAY

He throws the car into drive, looks at his target, thinks--

decides. He pulls the key out of the ignition and goes around

to the trunk of the car. He opens it and pulls out a shovel.

MARTY  LOW ANGLE

From in front. The headlights glare behind him. His breath

vaporizes. In the background Ray is walking toward him,

dragging the shovel, which scrapes along the asphalt. As Ray

moves into the foreground and turns to face Marty only his

lower legs and the shovel are in frame.

The shovel rises out of frame.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

Both hands hold the shovel tensed over his shoulder. He stares

down at Marty. A long pause. We hear a distant rumble.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY'S FEET

Inches away from Marty. Marty's hand slides forward and wraps

around one of Ray's ankles.

BACK TO RAY

He shudders. He adjusts his grip on the shovel.

The rumble grows louder.

RAY'S FEET

He jerks his foot away, breaking Marty's grasp.

BACK TO RAY

Looks up from Marty. The rumble grows louder.

RAY'S POV

Headlight beams, although not yet the headlights themselves,

are visible a long way down the road.

BACK TO RAY

Staring down the road. Finally he lowers the shovel, walks

back to the car and throws it viciously into the trunk, walks

back up into the foreground and stoops down.

CLOSE SHOT  MARTY

As Ray grabs him under the armpits and starts dragging him

back to the car. Just before Ray heaves him into the back

seat, Marty coughs weakly. A fine spray of blood comes out

with the cough.

The engine rumble is quite loud now.

MED SHOT  RAY  FROM ACROSS THE ROOF OF THE CAR

As he slams the back door shut. He presses himself against

the side of the car. Headlights glare over him; the truck

roars by just behind him.

EXT. OPEN FIELD

FULL SHOT  RAY'S CAR

Sudden quiet at the cut. We are looking at Ray's car in

profile, parked in the middle of a deserted field. From

offscreen we hear the sound of a shovel biting into earth.

We track laterally down the car, along the beam of its

headlights, to finally frame Ray as he climbs out of the

shallow grave he has just finished digging.

He plants the shovel and walks back to the car.

VERY WIDE SHOT

The grave in the middle background; the car's headlights

beyond it.

Ray is dragging Marty toward the grave. He dumps him in.

HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE

As Marty thumps to the bottom, face up.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

As he bends over to pick up the shovel, dripping sweat. We

hear the shovel biting into earth.

HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE

Ray, in the foreground, pitches the first shovelful of earth

onto Marty. Marty moves slightly.

LOW SHOT  RAY

As he pauses, looking down into the grave. He stoops down

and resumes shoveling, bobbing in and out of frame as he

hurls dirt into the grave.

BACK TO HIGH SHOT

As Ray shovels, Marty is moving under the loose dirt. A faint,

inarticulate noise comes from the grave.

Almost imperceptibly, Marty's right arm starts to rise.

LOW SHOT  FROM INSIDE THE GRAVE

Ray stands on the lip of the grave, hunched over his shovel,

crisply illuminated by the headlights. In the shadowy

foreground Marty's arm rises, extended toward Ray. He is

clutching Abby's gun in his splint-fingered hand.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

As he straightens up and stands motionless, expressionless,

watching Marty, making no attempt to get out of the way.

HIGH SHOT  MARTY

The gun extended into the foreground. His index finger

splinted, he slides his middle finger over the trigger of

the gun.

LOW SHOT  RAY

Watching.

HIGH SHOT  MARTY

The gun trembling in the foreground. His knuckle whitens

over the trigger.

The trigger releases and we hear the dull click of an empty

chamber.

LOW SHOT  RAY

Staring blankly down at Marty.

SIDE SHOT

Of Marty's gun hand as Ray slowly sinks down on the lip of

the grave, bracing himself with the shovel. His hand reaches

for Marty's. Marty squeezes off two more empty chambers.

Ray's hand slowly closes over the barrel of the gun.

As he pulls, the gun slides from Marty's fingers.

CLOSE SHOT  THE BLADE OF THE SHOVEL

Biting into the earth.

MED SHOT  RAY

Furiously shoveling dirt into the grave.

HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE

Marty barely visible under the dirt.

MED SHOT  RAY

Shoveling, panting.

HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE

Half full.

MED SHOT  RAY

Working furiously. His breath comes in short gasps.

HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE

It is filled. Ray is packing down the earth, slamming the

shovel furiously against the bare patch of earth.

CLOSE SHOT  THE BLADE OF THE SHOVEL

Being slammed down against the earth. Again and again.

EXT. OPEN FIELD  SUNRISE

The staccato beat of the shovel slamming against earth drops

out at the cut. There is perfect quiet. The sun is just

peeping over the horizon. In the foreground Ray is sitting

in the open door of his car, smoking a cigarette. His gaze

is fixed on a spot offscreen.

HIS POV

A house. Quite near by.

The house and its perfect green rectangle of lawn are set

incongruously in the middle of the open field.

BACK TO RAY

Staring, without emotion.

He takes one last, fierce drag on the cigarette, then flicks

it away. He takes the shovel, walks over to the grave and

stares at it for several seconds, shovel clasped firmly in

both hands.

He walks back to the car.

HIGH SHOT

House, car and grave. Ray throws the shovel into the car,

gets in, and turns the ignition.

The engine coughs weakly and dies.

He tries again. Same result.

One more time. The engine coughs, sputters, and fires to

life. The car runs over the grave and rattles on across the

rutted field towards the highway in the distance.

INT. RAY'S CAR  DAWN

As Ray drives down the straight empty highway in the flat

early-morning light.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

Pale and unblinking.

RAY'S POV  THE HIGHWAY

In the distance we see a beat-up white station wagon

approaching. It's headlights wink on, then off again.

BACK TO RAY

He squints at the approaching car.

RAY'S POV

The car is closer. It's headlights wink again.

BACK TO RAY

His jaw tightens. He stares intently at the car. Then,

abruptly, he looks down at his dashboard.

CLOSE SHOT  HEADLIGHT KNOB ON THE DASHBOARD

His headlights are on. Ray's hand enters frame and pushes in

the knob.

SIDE ANGLE  RAY

Watching the approaching station wagon. As it passes we catch

a glimpse of its occupant. He grins and cocks a you-got-it

finger at Ray before roaring out of frame.

EXT. DESERTED GAS STATION

HIGH ANGLE

The station hasn't opened yet. Ray's car, empty, stands alone

in the lot. Flat prairie stretches to the horizon. No movement

in the frame.

At the cut we hear the faint sound of a phone ringing through

a receiver. After four or five rings the phone is picked up

and we begin a slow crane down.

A beat.

The continuing crane down reveals Ray in a phone booth in

the foreground.

The phone disconnects.

INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

Her sleeping head on a pillow. Offscreen we hear a door open

and shut. A moment later Ray's dirt-caked hand comes into

frame and gently brushes a wisp of hair back for Abby's face.

We hear Ray walk across the apartment and a moment later the

sound of water running.

Abby stirs. She looks offscreen.

LONG SHOT  RAY

Standing in the doorway to the bathroom. He is wiping his

hands on a towel.

Still half asleep, Abby smiles.

There is a long pause. Finally:

Ray swings a chair out and sits down behind a table at the

far end of the room. He leans back and props his legs up on

the table. He is staring across the room at Abby.

BLACK

As we hear the click of a pull-string the camera is dropping:

down past an orange safe light, down the length of the string,

down to a metal darkroom tray where two short strips of

negative are burning.

Visser's hand and yellow sleeve cuff (now orange) enter frame,

with an 8 x 10 black-and-white photograph. The photograph is

dropped into the tray. As it burns we see that it is the

same picture of Abby's and Ray's "corpses" as Visser showed

Marty, except that in this print the bullet holes and blood

are less convincingly brushed in.

Another print is dropped into the tray and ignites. In this

one we see bullet holes but no blood.

A third print is dropped in and ignites. It is the original

undoctored shot of Abby and Ray asleep in bed.

Visser's hands enter frame holding the picture-envelope that

he took away from Marty's office. Visser rips it in half and

is about to drop it into the tray, but stops abruptly.

There is posterboard, not a photograph, peeking out of the

torn envelope.

Visser's hands pull the two halves of the placard from the

envelope and fit them together. The stenciled 8 x 10 placard

says: "All Employees Must Wash Hands Before Resuming Work."

LOW-ANGLE CLOSE SHOT  VISSER

Staring at the placard in disbelief.

After a moment his hand rises into frame to deposit a

cigarette in his mouth. His hand drops back down, groping in

a pocket.

His hand jumps back into frame, empty; he thumps at his breast

pockets; he can't find his lighter.

He wheels and exits frame. The light snaps off. A door slams

shut.

ABBY'S APARTMENT  DAY

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

He has dozed off in his chair. Offscreen we hear a door slam,

and his eyes open.

ABBY

Emerging from the bathroom. Her voice has a flat echo in the

bare apartment.

She walks over and sits down on the bed.

Abby looks at him, expecting more. Finally:

Ray finally looks directly at her.

Abby is looking at him in alarm.

He laughs shortly.

The chair grates back as he stands up and looks vaguely around

the room.

Abby is looking at him nervously.

He starts nervously pacing around the room, looking for

something.

He moves a packing crate aside, still hunting around the

apartment.

Ray's pacing is more agitated as he looks distractedly around

the apartment.

He pauses, seemingly at a total loss.

Ray is walking to the window. Sunlight streams in around

him.

He stoops down to look through a pile of clothes by the

window.

Ray's head snaps around. Staring at her he slowly rises to

his feet and then remains still.

Abby, startled, can't contain her agitation anymore.

RAY

We track toward him, isolating him against the window. He is

perfectly still. For a long time he can't speak.

BACK TO ABBY

Still worked up.

The ring of the telephone cuts her off. She looks at the

phone, pauses for a moment, then continues, struggling.

Her voice trails off.

The telephone won't stop ringing. Abby and Ray are staring

at each other, seemingly oblivious to it. Finally:

CLOSE SHOT  TELEPHONE

Still ringing. Abby's hand enters frame and picks it up.

Through the phone we hear only the rhythmic whir of a ceiling

fan. Abby shifts the phone to her other ear, listening hard.

It is the same sound we heard earlier when she picked up the

phone at Ray's house.

As before, the line clicks dead.

There is a long moment of silence. Then Ray's voice comes

from across the room:

There is silence again.

LONG SHOT  THE APARTMENT

Ray shifts in front of the window. He laughs humorlessly.

The laugh stops abruptly.

He starts across the room.

He is heading for the door.

He pauses at the foyer and pulls Abby's gun out of his pocket.

He sets it on a shelf by the door.

ABBY

Watching. We hear the door open.

We hear the door slam shut.

CLOSE SHOT  CEILING FAN

We hear the rhythmic whir of the fan. We tilt down from the

ceiling to reveal that we are in the living room of Ray's

bungalow.

In the foreground Visser sits in a chair with the cradled

telephone in his lap, facing the front door, which stands

open in the background. The contents of Abby's tote bag lie

strewn on the bureau next to Visser. Her purse is not there.

After a moment Visser rouses himself and starts to sweep the

articles back into the tote bag.

INT. MEURICE'S APARTMENT  DAY

LOW WIDE SHOT  LIVING ROOM

It is dark, lit only by the morning light leaking in around

the drawn blinds. It is a small modern apartment such as one

sees in large apartment complexes--shag carpeting, built-in

bar. In the extreme foreground the small red "Power" light

of a telephone answering machine glows in the darkness.

The front door opens in the background, spilling bright

sunlight. Meurice stoops down, picks up two newspapers,

enters, and shuts the door. He walks toward the camera and

his hand enters frame in extreme foreground to punch the

rewind button on the machine. His hand leaves frame. A few

pieces of mail are flipped down onto the machine table, piece

by piece, as the machine rewinds. He reaches down again and

hits playback. After a beep:

Mail continues to flip down onto the table, piece by piece.

Dial tone. Beep.

The mail stops dropping; Marty has Meurice's attention.

Dial tone. Beep.

Meurice's hand drops into frame.

His finger presses the stop button.

RAY'S FINGER

Pressing into a dark stain in the upholstery of the back

seat of his car. When he raises it the fingertip is red--the

seat still wet with blood.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

Looking down at the seat. He backs out of the car and walks

up the driveway to his house.

INT. RAY'S LIVING ROOM

As he comes through the screen door. It bangs shut behind

him. As he crosses the living room we see, and he hears,

Meurice's Trans Am pulling up and stopping at the foot of

the lawn. Ray turns and looks out the window.

CLOSE SHOT  CLOSET DOOR

Ray throws it open and hurriedly pulls out the first thing

at hand--a sheet. We hear the door of the Trans Am open and

slam shut.

EXT. RAY'S BUNGALOW

TRACKING SHOT  ON RAY

Exiting the house as the screen door bangs and shudders behind

him. He hurries down the walk.

TRACKING SHOT  RAY'S POV

Meurice is rounding the bottom of the lawn and starting up

the drive toward the incriminating car. Its back door is

standing ajar.

BACK TO RAY

Reacting to the line as he reaches the car. He bends over to

throw the sheet over the seat just as Meurice walks up behind

him.

Ray is still hunched in the open doorway. He freezes

momentarily in arranging the sheet.

Ray doesn't reply or turn around. Meurice is getting more

strident.

Ray backs out of the car and turns around.

Ray looks evenly at Meurice. Behind him the sheet has been

arranged over the seat. He puts an unlit cigarette in his

mouth.

Meurice reaches out and swipes the unlit cigarette out of

Ray's mouth.

He turns and stares down the street, exasperated.

Mow that his temper is gone, he realizes he has nothing much

to say. He shakes his head and turns back down the drive,

muttering as he lights himself Ray's cigarette.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

Standing in front of the back door of his car, watching

Meurice walk away. His right hand rises into frame to deposit

another unlit cigarette in his mouth. Offscreen, Meurice

calls from the end of the drive:

We hear his car door slam. After a moment Ray exits frame,

heading for the house. The camera tracks slowly in to the

back window of the car.

Traces of blood are starting to seep up from the upholstery

into the sheet.

INT. MARTY'S HOUSE  DAY

LOW WIDE SHOT  FRONT FOYER

We are looking across the tiled floor toward the front

doorway. The room has the dim gray cast of daytime inside a

shuttered house. We hold on the empty foyer as we hear an

intermittent high whining sound. We hear the padding of feet

on carpet, and then the clatter of nails on tile as Opal,

Marty's German shepherd, trots into frame and circles the

foyer, still whining. She jumps up and scratches desperately

at the front door.

A slow, rhythmic pounding is very faint on the track.

EXT. MARTY'S BAR  DUSK

Abby has just gotten out of her car and is walking up to the

front of the darkened bar. The faint, rhythmic thumping

continues over the cut, its source somewhere offscreen. As

Abby takes a key out of her purse and lets herself into the

bar, the thumping stops.

INT. MARTY'S BAR

Abby switches on the lights, looks around, goes to the back-

office door. Locked. As she fits her key into the lock:

The door swings open, fanning a shaft of light onto the

darkened room.

MARTY'S OFFICE BATHROOM

We are looking from the inside at the bathroom door that

won't close all the way. As the light fans into the office

beyond and seeps in through the crack of the bathroom door,

we see Visser's sleeve cuff and his hand pressing against

the door, to hold it near-shut.

BACK TO ABBY

Standing in the office doorway. We pull her into the room.

She stops abruptly, looking past the camera, and wrinkles

her nose.

ABBY'S POV

Marty's fish, now half-decayed, still lie on the desk.

Some of the desk drawers stand open, with some of their

contents strewn across the surface of the desk.

BACK TO ABBY

She takes a step forward. We hear the crunch of glass

underfoot. She looks down at the floor.

ABBY'S POV

Shards of broken glass lie on the floor.

BACK TO ABBY

She looks up from the floor toward the back door.

ABBY'S POV

The pane of the back-door window closest to the knob has

been shattered from the outside, scattering broken glass

into the office.

BACK TO ABBY

She crosses slowly to the desk, staring at the rotted fish.

She looks up from the desk.

ABBY'S POV

On the standing safe behind the desk lies a white towel.

Abby's hand enters frame ans picks up the towel.

In slow motion a hammer that's been wrapped inside slips out

of the towel, falls end-over-end, hits the floor with a dull

thud.

BACK TO ABBY

Stooping down to pick up the hammer. At eye level as she

stoops down is the combination dial to the safe. The dial

has been battered by the hammer. Abby looks from the hammer

to the floor under the desk chair.

ABBY'S POV

Blood stains.

ABBY

Staring down at the floor. She rises and looks at the desk.

As she rises we hear glass under her feet.

ABBY'S POV

The dead fish. Beyond them, on the floor around the desk,

broken glass.

BACK TO ABBY

Staring.

ABBY'S POV

The dead fish.

BACK TO ABBY

She seems to be falling slowly backwards. The camera falls

with her, keeping her in close shot. Her head hits a pillow.

We pull back slowly to reveal that she is lying on the bed

in her apartment, staring across the room. She lies motionless

on the bad, her eyes wide.

ABBY'S POV

Across the darkened apartment we see the curtainless windows,

and beyond them, across the lamplit street, the facade of

the opposite building.

LONG SHOT  ABBY

Lying still. After a moment she gets out of bed, crosses to

the front door of the apartment, locks it, then walks

unsteadily back to the bed.

FADE IN:

SAME LONG SHOT  ABBY IN BED

She opens her eyes, lies still for a moment, coughs. She

gets out of bed and walks across the still dark apartment to

the bathroom. She shuts the bathroom door.

BATHROOM

Abby looks at herself in the mirror above the sink, then

turns on the tap water. From a neighboring apartment we hear

a dull rhythmic thumping on the wall. She pauses, listens

for a moment, then starts to splash water on her face.

From somewhere offscreen we hear the sharp sound of glass

shattering. It reverberates for a moment, then dies. Abby

looks up at the bathroom door. We hear a scraping at the

lock of her apartment door. Abby listens.

Suddenly we hear the lock springing open, and the front door

swinging on its hinges.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

Startled. She shuts off the water and stands motionless.

Droplets of water are streaming down her face.

We hear the sound of footsteps in the next room, crunching

across broken glass.

There is no answer. After a moment we hear bedsprings creak

in the next room. Abby opens the bathroom door and walks

out.

MAIN ROOM

A shaft of light slices across the floor from the open

bathroom door. Broken glass glints on the floor. In the semi-

darkness we can see that someone is sitting on the bed. The

person looks up.

It is Marty.

Abby recoils.

Abby looks nervously at Marty. Droplets of water are still

running down her face. She brushes one from her eye.

He smiles thinly.

Abby takes a step back.

Still smiling, Marty shakes his head.

He stands. We hear glass under his feet. He unbuttons the

middle button of his coat and reaches inside.

He withdraws something from an inside pocket and tosses it

to her.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY'S HANDS

As she catches the object. It is her compact.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

She looks from her hands up to Marty.

Marty gags, leans forward, doubles over to vomit--blood.

The blood washes over the floor at his feet.

ABBY

Bolts upright in bead with a muffled groan. Sweat pours down

her face. She brushes a drop of sweat from her eye and looks

around.

ABBY'S POV

Moonlight glints through the windows across the hardwood

floor. Through the windows we can see the facade of the

opposite building. The apartment is dark and still, just as

we left it before she fell asleep.

BACK TO ABBY

She slumps back onto the bed. One hand gropes down out of

frame and comes up holding an illuminated alarm clock. She

looks at it, drops it back to the floor.

She turns on her side and stares across the room toward the

window.

ABBY'S POV

The window.

SAME WINDOW  SAME ANGLE  PRE-DAWN

It is still not quite light. The few lights that shined in

the windows of the opposite building before are now off; the

facade of the building is a flat, undetailed gray.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

Still lying on her side on the bed, her eyes open, staring

at the window.

BACK TO LONG SHOT  WINDOW

After a moment Abby enters frame. She picks her coat off a

chair and puts it on.

We hear a car door slam.

EXT. RAY'S BUNGALOW  PRE-DAWN

Abby has just gotten out of her car in the foreground and is

crossing the lawn to the house. Down the road the street

lights are still on. One light burns in the house, in the

window of Ray's bedroom. Abby approaches it.

THROUGH THE WINDOW

Over Abby's shoulder, as she leans against the sill of the

open window and looks inside.

Ray sits on the bed in the empty room, smoking a cigarette,

his profile to the window, gazing fixedly at the wall.

Ray starts and looks toward the window, squinting.

INT. RAY'S BUNGALOW

WIDE SHOT  LIVING ROOM

Abby is coming through the screen door. The room is strikingly

bare of everything except furniture. All personal effects

have been removed.

Abby looks around, bewildered, as Ray enters from the hallway.

Abby, still standing in front of the door, looks at him

uncomprehendingly. Ray walks over to a couple of cardboard

boxes stacked in the corner.

He ties a knot around the top carton with a piece of cord,

then cuts the cord with a collapsible fishing knife.

She slowly shakes her head.

He leans back against the boxes, watching her.

Ray shakes his head, smiling. Abby squints at him, looking

for help.

He puts the knife in his pocket and walks over to the door.

As he approaches her:

Ray faces Abby in front of the door.

It's difficult to bring out. Ray's hand gropes for the cross-

slat on the screen door. Finally:

Abby stares.

An object materializes in the sky beyond them. It is flipping

end-over-end in slow motion, moving toward Abby and Ray and

the screen door. Abby and Ray, each staring at the other,

fail to notice until--

THWACK--it bounces off the screen.

Abby starts; Ray doesn't.

The spell is broken, Abby pushes hesitantly at the screen

door. Ray's hand slides off the cross-slat; he makes no move

to stop her.

CLOSE SHOT  THE FRONT STOOP

As Abby steps over the rolled-up newspaper that hit the screen

door.

TRACKING SHOT  ON ABBY

Hurrying down the driveway to get to her car. A low rumble

is building on the soundtrack. Abby glances at Ray's car as

she passes it.

ABBY'S POV  TRACKING FORWARD  THE CAR

More blood has seeped into and dried on the dropsheet covering

the back seat. The bass rumble grows louder, punctuated by a

rhythmic thumping.

EXT. MEURICE'S APARTMENT  DAY

OVER ABBY'S SHOULDER

As she pounds frantically on the door--the sound continuing

over the cut. After a moment the door edges open.

Meurice is standing in the doorway in a long bathrobe. A

sleeper's blindfold is pushed up over his forehead.

He looks at her hard.

He steps aside to let her pass.

INT. MEURICE'S APARTMENT

As Abby enters.

Meurice switches on a table lamp; the curtains are drawn

against the sun. Abby follows Meurice over to the bar.

He pours himself a drink.

He glares at her.

He slams back the drink.

He grimaces.

Meurice sits her down on the sofa.

He tries to coax her into lying down.

Her head meets an end cushion.

Meurice rises from the sofa, sighs.

He leans down to the table next to the sofa.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

Her head on the cushion. We hear engine rumble. Abby twists

her head back, following Meurice. As we hear the table lamp

being switched off we:

EXT. HIGHWAY  NIGHT

POV FROM A CAR

The engine rumble continues over the cut. There is no other

traffic on the highway. A light fog covers the road. A green

highway sign says: "San Antonio 73 mi." We hear a car radio

playing softly.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

Driving. He is gently lit by the light from the dashboard.

He reaches forward to turn off the radio. The only sound now

is the hum of the engine and the rhythmic clomping of tires

on pavement. The look and sound of the scene are close to

those of the first scene of the movie.

Ray takes a cigarette out of his pocket and puts it in his

mouth, but leaves it unlit.

RAY'S POV

The headlights of an approaching car materialize in the fog.

The car passes with a roar.

Up ahead a traffic light is turning amber.

BACK TO RAY

The engine hum drops as he slows. We hear the low engine

rumble and the squeaking brakes of another car. Ray is now

stopped in front of the deserted intersection. He looks up

in his rearview mirror.

RAY'S POV

Another car is stopped just behind him, the fog floating up

past its headlights. The headlights halate in the fog; none

of the rest of the car is visible.

BACK TO RAY

The unlit cigarette still in his mouth. He looks down from

the rearview mirror to the intersection ahead of him. There

is a long pause, during which we hear only the steady purr

of Ray's car and the knocking rumble of the car behind him.

Ray looks up at the traffic light.

RAY'S POV

The light is just turning from red to green.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY'S FOOT ON BRAKE

He takes his foot off the brake, hesitates for a moment, the

replaces it on the brake.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

He looks up in his rearview mirror.

RAY'S POV

The headlights of the other car remain motionless behind

him. The car makes no move to pass.

BACK TO RAY

He slowly takes the cigarette from his mouth and drops it

onto the seat next to him. His eyes shift from the rearview

mirror to the traffic light.

RAY'S POV

Green fog floats past the green light.

BACK TO RAY

His face frozen. He turns slowly to look behind.

RAY'S POV

The other car is still motionless. We hear the muted rumble

of its engine.

BACK TO RAY

His eyes shift back to the mirror. He gropes for his window

handle and slowly rolls it down. He sticks out his left arm,

eyes still on the rearview mirror, and waves for the other

car to go around him.

RAY'S POV

The other car remains still for a moment. White fog floats

up beyond the red fog created by Ray's brake lights.

Finally the car pulls out slowly to the left to pass.

BACK TO RAY

Watching the car pass.

RAY'S POV

As the car pulls out into the light from the intersection

and Ray's headlights, we see that it is a battered green

Volkswagon. First the car itself, and then its red tail

lights, disappear into the fog.

BACK TO RAY

Watching, for a long moment.

Finally he takes his foot off the brake, turns the steering

wheel hard left and hangs a U-turn.

MARTY'S LIVING ROOM  WIDE

A light is switched on in the expensively appointed room.

Meurice enters, walking silently on the carpet, looking around

the room. He throws the light off at the far end and leaves.

MARTY'S BEDROOM  WIDE

The door swings open.  Meurice throws the switch near the

door and the room is bathed in light. We are once again in

the bedroom where we earlier saw Abby looking through her

purses.

We start to hear the faint buzzing of a fly.

Meurice glances around, throws off the light, and shuts the

door. Black.

MARTY'S OFFICE

Somewhere offscreen a light is switched on and we are looking

in close shot at the dead fish.

The sound of the fly is louder with the cut.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

Standing in the doorway from the bar, staring down at the

fish.

WIDE SHOT  THE OFFICE

Ray glances around at the broken glass lying on the floor.

His gaze shifts to the safe and the hammer in front of it.

He walks over to the safe and stoops down.

CLOSE SHOT  RAY AT SAFE

He works its battered dial and it swings open. He shuffles

through the contents and brings out a small pile of

photographs.

RAY'S POV

As he flips through the photographs. The first four are Ray

and Abby in the motel room bed. The last is a mounted 8 x

10: Abby and Marty on a Gulf beach.

BACK TO RAY

Looking.

HIS POV  PICTURE DETAIL

Marty is still laughing.

BACK TO RAY

He scowls at the shots Visser took, then puts them back in

the safe. When his hand comes out he is holding another

photograph--this one folded twice. He unfolds it.

RAY'S POV

His and Abby's corpses.

BACK TO RAY  FROM ACROSS THE DESK

As he straightens slowly from the safe in the background.

At desk level, we again see the glint of Visser's lighter

under the dead fish.

Ray crosses slowly around the desk into the foreground and

lays the picture flat on the desktop. For a moment he stares

down at it, then wheels abruptly and leaves frame.

INT. RAY'S CAR

CLOSE SHOT  RAY

Driving. He glances up in the rearview mirror.

MARTY'S KITCHEN

As Meurice enters and throws an overhead light. The white

room is bathed in bright, shadowless light. As Meurice steps

into the kitchen his foot strikes something on the floor

below frame, which clatters hollowly away.

CLOSE SHOT  PLASTIC DOG-FOOD BOWL

The empty bowl skids into a wall, bounces back, and wobbles,

spinning on its bottom rim.

MARTY'S BILLIARD ROOM

DUTCH-TILT

TRACKING SHOT  TOWARD MOUNTED MOOSE HEAD

On a low skewed axis the camera is tracking in toward the

impassive trophy head on Marty's billiard-room wall.

The moose still has Ray's cigarette protruding from its mouth.

REVERSE TRACKING SHOT  MEURICE

As he walks toward the moose, head cocked to one side,

frowning quizzically up.

He hears something, and looks through the door to his left.

MEURICE'S POV

The long shadowy hall. We hear panting.

CLOSE SHOT  MEURICE

Squinting.

THE HALLWAY

A form starts to materialize in the shadows.

MEURICE

Taking a step back.

HIS POV

The dog bounding down the hallway. Its panting has become a

low growl.

FROM BEHIND MEURICE

He wrenches a cue stick from the rack and squares.

HIS POV

Opal snarling, leaping.

INT. MEURICE'S APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  TOP OF A COFFEE TABLE

The splintered top half of the pool cue is slammed down to

rest on top of the coffee table.

MED SHOT  ABBY

Sitting on the sofa, looking down out of frame. Behind her

Meurice agitatedly paces back and forth, waving the splintered

bottom half of the cue stick. His voice is unnaturally loud.

ABBY'S POV

The splintered top half of the cue stick on the coffee table.

INT. ABBY'S HALLWAY

Abby approaches her door in the foreground and lets herself

in.

INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT

Looking toward the window. The room is dark. Through the

window we see the facade of the building across the street.

Abby enters frame in the foreground, in silhouette against

the window, and throws an overhead light switch. The bright

light reveals Ray standing by the window, looking out.

Abby jumps, startled.

EXT. ROOF OF FACING APARTMENT BUILDING

From the roof of the building across the street we are looking

down on the facade of Abby's building. Most of its windows

are dark, but in a brightly lit fourth-floor window we can

clearly see Abby and Ray.

A man is on the roof in the foreground, hitching a rifle to

his shoulder.

INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT

Ray turns from the window which, with the switching on of

the overhead light, has become a mirror of the interior of

the apartment.

EXT. FACING ROOF

The light goes out in the apartment across the street; its

window goes opaque.

INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT

Dark now. Ray still stands by the window, looking out. Abby

still stands by the light switch.

Abby is clearly apprehensive--about Ray, not about anything

outside.

Abby doesn't understand, and has had enough. As she throws

the light back on:

Ray turns angrily from the window.

EXT. FACING ROOF

Ray and Abby are once again clearly visible. Ray is starting

across the room.

INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT

Abby takes a fearful step back as Ray strides toward the

light switch, next to her.

This brings Ray up short. He stares at Abby. It registers

that it is him she's afraid of.

He shakes his head.

Abby takes another step back. Her voice comes out, after a

pause, half-strangled:

Ray winces. He slowly shakes his head with a pained half-

smile.

We hear the dull report of a rifle and the deafening sound

of shattering glass. The gun shot hits Ray in the back,

knocking him to the floor. He lies still.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

She stares dumbly down at Ray. She looks slowly up to the

window.

THE WINDOW

It has a gaping black hole. The sound of shattering glass

still reverberates in the apartment. Small shards of glass

chink down from the window and shatter on the floor.

BACK TO ABBY

Staring at the window, paralyzed--almost in a trance. Quiet

except for the chinking of glass.

EXT. FACING ROOF

We are looking through the telescopic sight of a high-powered

rifle. The rifle sweeps up from Ray's body across the brightly

lit room, and centers Abby, still staring at the window, in

the cross hairs.

INT. ABBY'S APARTMENT

We are looking past Abby toward the shattered window at the

far end of the room. A brass lamp stands in the foreground,

between Abby and the camera. Abby still stands paralyzed.

Glass has stopped chinking from the window to the floor;

there is a painful silence.

Suddenly Abby dives to the floor just as CRASH the rest of

the window falls away and PING the brass lamp somersaults

toward us from the impact of the bullet.

The window is now completely gone--just a black hole in the

brightly lit wall.

ABBY

Scrambles into a corner at the window end of the room. The

only sound is her heavy breathing. She looks over at Ray,

then up at the bulb on the ceiling.

ABBY'S POV  CEILING BULB

BACK TO ABBY

Breathing heavily, almost hysterical. She looks down at the

floor.

ABBY'S POV

Ray is sprawled on the floor in a pool of blood and broken

glass.

BACK TO ABBY

She reaches down and pulls off one of her shoes. She throws

it at the ceiling bulb.

We hear the bulb shatter and the room goes black.

Abby rises and makes her way cautiously across the glass-

littered floor toward Ray. She stoops over him.

LOW SHOT  THE DARK APARTMENT

Its front door in background. Abby rises into frame and backs

toward the doorway, staring down at the floor. One of her

hands is covered with blood.

She winces and almost loses her balance as we hear a piece

of glass crunching under her bare floor. She turns and moves

to the front door, favoring one foot, and throws the door

open.

HALLWAY

Abby lurches from her apartment and pounds on the neighboring

door. No answer. She pounds on the door across the hall.

Abby heads for the stairway at the far end of the hall. The

heel of her shod foot is throwing her weight onto her bad

foot; she kicks off the shoe.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

As she reaches the top of the stairs. She takes one step

down, then brings herself up short. She looks over the railing

down the stairwell. It is quiet. An innocent-sounding cough

echoes somewhere in the building.

We hear the sound of footsteps from somewhere below.

Abby turns and hobbles back to her apartment. The bareness

of the hallway sets off her abandoned shoe.

ABBY'S APARTMENT

As she enters and slams the door behind her. She scrabbles

at the lock, finally manages to get it shut, then turns and

looks frantically around.

ABBY'S POV

Ray is lying still in the darkness.

We can hear footsteps approaching up the hallway.

Abby enters frame and kneels down next to Ray. She fumbles

around him briefly in the darkness.

The doorknob rattles. Abby freezes, listening, trying to

control her breath. After a moment we hear a scraping at the

lock.

Abby moves to the bathroom adjoining the main room and shuts

the door behind her.

BATHROOM

It is very small. Abby presses her palms against the door

and slowly eases her ear against the door to listen. The

scraping in the apartment door lock continues. Sweat streams

down Abby's face. She brushes a drop from her eye.

We hear the snap of the lock springing open, and the front

door swinging on its hinges.

CLOSER ON ABBY

Her ear pressed to the door. From the next room we hear the

sound of footsteps crunching across broken glass.

Abby backs away from the door, stares at it, then turns and

moves to the bathroom window. She looks out.

ABBY'S POV

A sheer drop to the narrow backyard of the building four

stories below. Next to Abby's window is another window,

separated from hers only by the breadth of the wall, that

separates the two apartments.

ABBY'S APARTMENT

Visser hunches, hands on knees, over Ray, who lies on the

floor out of frame.

He hunkers down closer to Ray.

He is rummaging through Ray's pockets but comes up empty-

handed.

Visser looks down at Ray, glances around the room, looks

back down at Ray.

His hand, gripping something, flashes down out of frame. We

hear a dull crunch.

BATHROOM

Abby has drawn her head back from the bathroom window. She

moves back to the door and braces herself against it.

ABBY'S APARTMENT

Visser straightens up from Ray's body. He drops something to

the floor, out of frame, that lands with a thud.

He goes over to the light switch on the wall and flips it

back and forth. No light.

He goes over to the brass lamp, sets it upright, tries its

switch. Again nothing.

He disappears into the kitchenette as we hold on its open

doorway. After a moment we hear a refrigerator hum as a cold

blue light plays in the doorway. There is the rattle of a

can being pulled off the refrigerator rack, and the snap of

its pull-tab being opened. After a couple of audible slurps

we hear the can go back on the rack and, as the blue light

disappears, we hear the refrigerator door close.

Visser reappears in the doorway. He surveys the room, fixes

on the bathroom door, goes over, turns the knob. The door

swings open.

He walks in.

BATHROOM

Visser looks around the cramped space. The shower curtain is

drawn. He casually draws it back. The shower is empty.

He goes to the window and leans out.

VISSER'S POV

The sheer drop below; the other window to one side.

BACK TO VISSER

He draws his head back in, presses his palms against the

adjacent wall, and eases his ear to the wall to listen.

Perfect quiet.

After a moment he goes back to the window, braces himself

against the sash, and sticks his arm out--groping for the

window of the adjacent apartment.

EXT. ABBY'S BUILDING / BATHROOM WINDOW

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER'S FACE

Pressing against the glass as he leans against the upper

half of the bathroom window.

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER'S HAND

It finds the adjacent window and starts to raise it.

BACK TO VISSER'S FACE

Again we see him through the window. His jaw is set as he

gropes offscreen.

Suddenly his body jerks violently forward, his head smacking

against the glass and cracking it.

INT. ADJACENT APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER'S HAND

Abby (out of frame) has grabbed it and now THUMP she slams

the window down on his wrist, catching it between the window

sash and sill.

Her other hand flashes across frame to THUNK pin Visser's

hand to the sill with Ray's knife.

BACK TO VISSER

We hear the shatter of glass as the shock causes his head to

break through the window. His hand is nailed into the

apartment next door. He is in pain.

ADJACENT APARTMENT

Abby back slowly from the window, staring at the hand. From

the ground below we hear the faint and echoing sounds of the

shards of glass shattering against pavement.

ABBY'S POV  THE WINDOW

Visser's pinned hand is writhing.

As we hear a muffled CRACK, a circle of light opens with a

puff of plaster dust in the wall that separates the two

apartments. A line of light shoots across the dark apartment

from the bright bathroom next door.

BACK TO ABBY

Staring at the wall. We hear a second CRACK.

ABBY'S POV

A second hole has opened in the wall, letting through a second

shaft of light.

Four more sharp reports in rapid succession: With each gun

blast a bright circle opens and a new shaft of light

penetrates the dark apartment.

Finally we hear the CLICK of an empty chamber, and the clatter

of the empty gun being dropped to the floor of the bathroom

next door.

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

Staring at the lines of light that crisscross the apartment.

There is a long moment of silence, then a sudden THUMP.

ABBY'S POV  THE WALL

Six circles of light.

The circles go black momentarily as there is another THUMP.

And another. Each time Visser pounds his fist against the

wall, there is a muffled THUMP and his swinging arm strobes

the bullet holes.

BACK TO ABBY

She turns and hobbles toward the door of apartment. The

muffled thumping continues, as in her dream.

HALLWAY

As Abby emerges from the adjacent apartment. She stops and

looks down the hall.

ABBY'S POV

The stairway is at the far end of the hall. The door of her

own darkened apartment stands slightly ajar.

ADJACENT APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  THE WALL

The bullet holes strobing. The pounding, more purposeful

now, grows louder and more intense.

Finally, with a crash, Visser's fist penetrates the wall in

an explosion of light and dust.

HALLWAY

We pull Abby as she limps hesitantly down the hall.

ADJACENT APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER'S HAND

Waving aimlessly through the ambient dust. He is blindly

groping for the sill--and the knife that pins his other hand.

His outstretched middle finger just grazes the handle of the

knife.

ABBY'S HALLWAY / APARTMENT

Pulling Abby as she draws even with the door of her apartment.

ABBY'S POV

Her pearl-handled revolver sits on the shelf just inside the

door, where Ray left it. It catches the light from the hall.

ADJACENT APARTMENT

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT  VISSER'S FINGERTIPS

The side of his middle finger rubs against the knife handle;

the tip of his index finger barely touches it. Visser's

fingers are trembling, indicating that his arm is stretched

to its uttermost.

A surge against the wall gives his fingers another inch or

so and they curl around the handle of the knife.

ABBY'S APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

As she steps in from the hallway to pick up the gun. She

looks around the apartment.

ABBY'S POV

The window of the apartment, its glass now completely gone,

lets in streetlight. Ray's corpse is a dark form in the middle

of the floor. A bright shaft of light slices across the room

from offscreen. It glints on the shards of glass that litter

the floor, just as in Abby's dream.

BATHROOM

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER

As he slowly, quietly draws his hand in from the hole in the

wall. He is holding the knife.

He turns slowly to face the door, listening.

ABBY'S APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

She steadies herself against the wall and turns to look toward

the bathroom.

ABBY'S POV

The bathroom door stands slightly ajar. The interior of the

bathroom is a bright band in the shadowy recesses of the

back of the apartment.

BATHROOM

CLOSE SHOT  VISSER

Moving quietly toward the door.

ABBY'S APARTMENT

CLOSE SHOT  ABBY

Staring, almost transfixed, at the bathroom door. She raises

the gun, trembling, and trains it on the band of light.

ABBY'S POV

Visser's shadow falls across the crack in the doorway.

BACK TO ABBY

She shifts the gun slightly and fires.

ABBY'S POV

With the roar of the gun, a small circle of light opens in

the door. As the door waffles under the impact, we hear Visser

collapsing behind it.

BACK TO ABBY

Leaning against the facing wall. She lowers the gun. She

slides down the wall to finally rest seated on the floor.

She brushes a drop of sweat from her eye.

HER POV

The cracked bathroom door spilling light.

BACK TO ABBY

A pause. After a moment, her voice comes out half-choked:

HER POV

The bathroom door. Quiet for a long moment.

Then, from inside the bathroom, we hear laughter.

BACK TO ABBY

Staring at the door. We hear the laughter subside, to leave

the sound of labored breathing. Finally:

BATHROOM

Visser lies on his back, his head underneath the bathroom

sink.

His good hand is pressed against his belly, which rises and

falls with his heavy breathing. Blood seeps out between his

fingers.

He is smiling.

HIS POV

The underside of the sink, its convoluted chrome works beading

moisture.

VISSER

Looking, with mild interest.

HIS POV

A condensed droplet trickles down the chrome.

Directly overhead, it hangs for a moment from the lowest

joint of the pipe.

It fattens, wavers, wavers--and falls, spelling...

FINIS.

"...In an early draft of the script, Ray, the befuddled

bartender who for want of a more compelling character served

as our story's hero, fled the scene of the tale's protracted

central murder and checked into a motel outside of San

Antonio:"

MOTEL LOBBY  DAY

DUSTY RHODES, a lean man with a weathered face and large

Adam's apple, stands behind the Formica check-in counter.

KYLE, a heavyset man of thirty wearing a feed cap, sits in

the lobby's one piece of furniture, a beat-up leatherette

sofa. He sips from a can of soda.

Ray, begrimed and haggard, enters out of the glare of the

noonday sun.

Calling out from the divan:

"Looking at this scene now, years later, it strikes us that

revising it out of existence, as we did, constituted too

much rewriting. Indeed, the more prosaic scene we replaced

it with, involving Ray stopped at a traffic light, can be

found in the finished script but not in the finished movie.

It was shot but then deleted in order to more quickly get to

the carnage, which was the picture's raison d'^etre..."

