standing over Sherman, who continues to struggle with

the dog.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                  4.

The DOG GROWLS and snaps at Sherman.

Sherman gets the leash fastened. He stands up, pulls

on a rubberized British riding mac. Judy flicks a tiny

plastic bag out of a cleverly-concealed container and

hands it to Sherman.

pulls Marshall out of the elevator. MARSHALL SQUEALS and

drags his nails across the lobby, trying desperately to

avoid this walk.

is dragging Marshall out of the building as a limo pulls

up and the immaculately-dressed POLLARD BROWNING gets

out. He looks at Sherman, Sherman's clothes and Sherman's

dog. He doesn't approve. As they pass each other under

the awning...

As Pollard enters the building and Sherman drags Marshall

away...

Sherman drags Marshall to the phone.

approaches his own desk, his own telephone, his own

computer terminals. He dials a number.

RAWLIE THORPE comes running up to Sherman.

Another ROAR of the CROWD comes over the SPEAKERS.

Sherman flips OFF the speaker.

The meeting breaks up.

moving through the bond trading room to his desk.                 *

SPITTING OUT the message: "Sherman, Arriving New York             *

on the Concorde tonight. Best, Maria."                            *

The sky is a labyrinth of planes taking off and landing.

comes out of the customs area into the lobby. She is

a vision -- young, beautiful, ultra-chic in her big-

shouldered electric blue Norma Kamali type jacket, her

miniskirt, her lizard shoes. The sweaty hordes of

panting tourists all seem to part like the Red Sea as

Maria passes through them, followed by a porter and a

trolley full of luggage.

moving toward Maria.     They embrace clumsily.

moving off the Van Wyck and onto the Grand Central

Parkway.

Maria is laughing. She is fiddling with the back of

Sherman's neck and chewing on his ear while her other

hand is in his crotch. Maria is laughing.                           *

reading "Manhattan" way off to the right, several full

lanes away.

"EAST BRONX NEW ENGLAND" and "EAST 138TH BRUCKNER BLVD."

veers onto ramp and heads toward the 138th St. exit.              *

is suddenly off the expressway and driving at ground

level -- a dark street, piled at one side with car                *

tires -- totally bleak.                                           *

makes a right out of the traffic and suddenly...

surrounds the car -- people, MUSIC, cars, colors.   A

boulevard of dizzy sounds and sights.

She opens his shirt.    She is suddenly all over him.

They do.

A thirty foot rendition of "blind justice" -- a gigantic

woman with the scales of justice in one hand and a bronze

sword in the other.

is up on the bench leaning forward, chin down, eyes

blazing, his bony skull and beaked nose sticking out

of his robes -- he looks like a buzzard perched for

take-off.

in chaos --

-- children running about as if they were in a day care

center, clumps of people in the spectator section waiting

their turn, people talking, going in and out paying

little attention to the Judge until...

Everyone freezes -- including the kids.

addresses the DEFENDANT.

He points at Ray Andriutti, the assistant D.A.

coming into the courtroom and moving toward Ray

Andriutti.

sits at the table next to Ray Andriutti. As they talk,

Kramer takes a pair of black shoes out of a plastic bag.

He takes off the Reeboks that he's wearing and puts the

shoes on.

as the Clerk announces the next case.

come out of the courtroom.                                          *

GOLDBERG

They move down the corridor.                                         *

Martin and Goldberg look at each other.

Andruitti turns and goes.

BLACK WOMEN - DAY

in the middle of a hymn.

PULL BACK to include:      Rev. Bacon in the middle of a

tirade.

Kramer, Martin and Goldberg start to go.    Bacon puts his

arm around Mrs. Lamb.

Mrs. Lamb goes to Kramer.

of Sherman's Mercedes -- RPH 633.

approaching Southampton.

is driving. Judy and Campbell are with him.        No one is

talking. Then...

No response.

Sherman and Judy are having drinks with Sherman's FATHER

and MOTHER. Over the following, Campbell is tugging at

Judy's sleeve, asking repeatedly, "But what does he do?

What does Daddy do?!" To which, Judy replies, "He sells

bonds." Sherman is, at the same time, searching through

a newspaper for any news of the accident.

Everyone laughs.

More laughter.

She gets up abruptly and leaves. Mrs. McCoy goes after

Judy. Sherman and his father sit there without talking.

Then...

Peter sits in a chair and tries to pull Caroline into his

lap. Caroline grabs Filippo.

They leave.    Peter laughs and almost falls off his chair.

standing over Peter.

He tries to get up.

Peter struggles to his feet.

As they move across the room...

Moore just looks at him.       Then...

They march into the back room of the restaurant.

is sitting on a park bench. He's been up all night. He

staggers across the street into the City Light newspaper

office...

In bed.                                                           *

The TELEPHONE RINGS.

He answers.

is on the phone. His ASSISTANT sits next to him typing

into a word processor. The car is a mini-office.

is in his driveway sipping a beer and painting a "For

Sale" sign. An '81 Corvette is parked in the driveway.

DAY

Felix hands him the paper. Sherman tries to read the                *

article and talk to Bernard at the same time.                       *

He puts down the phone and stares at the newspaper. He

sits there in his two thousand dollar Saville Row suit

and his New and Lingwood cap-toed shoes and he sweats.

Around him, voices come out of the chaotic room.

is standing outside Maria's apartment building. A cab

pulls up. Maria gets out. She is carrying a large                   *

portfolio-type case, suitable for transporting a                    *

painting. Sherman intercepts her.                                   *

As they go into the building...

has just finished installing a new intercom system near

the open door of the apartment. Sherman and Maria appear

in the doorway.

He packs up and leaves.

Maria closes the door after him.      She laughs.

Sherman gets the jacket.     Maria starts putting a painting        *

into her portfolio.                                                 *

dressed in black, looking small and frail. Slowly, she

raises her right arm, as if to wave. And then her hand

changes to a clenched fist and she screams...

The crowd goes berserk, screaming with her. A man in the

crowd hurls a JAR of mayonnaise at the poster of Abe

Weiss. As it SPLATTERS...

Kramer, Weiss, Ray Andriutti and several aides are watch-

ing the TV coverage of the demonstration.

Weiss flips a channel. Corsaro reports. Behind him,

a graphic portrays the Weiss poster with graffiti

scribbled on it:

On TV we see Corsaro interviewing Albert Fox, who's at

his limo, with his aide.

Weiss switches channel to an Anchorwoman. Behind her,

a graphic portrays a Mercedes and licence plate number

with five question marks.

Ray leaves.    Weiss sits down looking sadly at the

television.

The crowd screaming "Justice!    Justice!   Justice!"

He goes to the window.    The sun is setting over the New

York skyline.

smiles acknowledgement of the apology.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                 70.

talking to CECIL HAYDEN as they watch Roland.   (Hayden

is black.)

is standing in front of KILLIAN who is seated at his

desk.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                 72.

Sherman sits down.    He is depressed.   The PHONE RINGS.

He puts down the phone and looks at Sherman.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                  73.         *

gets out of a limo and speaks to the Doorman.    The

Doorman picks up the house phone.

is on the house phone. She is wearing a formal dress

with gigantic shoulders.

FOLLOW her TO...

is sitting half-dressed in black tie.    He is on the

phone.

Judy comes into the room.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                   74.

Judy sits down and thinks.

The last scene of Don Giovanni is being played out.       The

Commandatori has the Don in his grip, urging him to

"repent." The Don refuses. The MUSIC THUNDERS

threateningly.

in a box with Judy and Leonard and Inez Bavardage.

Sherman is transfixed by what he is seeing on the stage.

He flips through his libretto.

and the word "repent" in English and Italian.

as the floor opens up around Don Giovanni.       Flames and

demons reach for him.

breaking into a sweat.    He reaches for Judy.

as Don Giovanni screams and falls into the jaws of hell.

depicts a jungles scene -- a lion is eating a just-killed

zebra. A pack of hyenas are hovering.

looking at the scene.    The museum party is in full gear.

Sherman turns and bumps into Aubrey, spilling his drink.           *

grabs him by the arm and pulls him into her conversation           *

with Aubrey.                                                       *

Sherman looks across the room and sees...

is walking across the room with her husband, ARTHUR

RUSKIN.

is shocked.

During the above, Sherman sees...

is being introduced to Maria on the other side of the

room.

extricates himself from Aubrey.

speaking to Judy.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90               78.         *

comes up next to Judy.

The group laughs and turns away from Sherman.

As Judy tries to rejoin the group...

Sherman pulls her away.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                78A.

She leaves him.

walking and speaking to a woman.    As they pass an

enormous table of food...

Aubrey continues talking as he passes...

talking in French to BORIS KARLEVSKOV, a ballet dancer.

Sherman approaches.

Sherman tries to smile throughout the following. Boris

smiles and nods -- although he doesn't understand a word

they're saying.

But MRS. BAVARDAGE swirls up to them and whisks the now

terrified Maria away.

As Sherman climbs into the back seat...

A line of men near a little metal door and a crowd of 50

people standing in the rain. Very still. Jed Kramer                 *

is there, too.

off by himself, close to the curb where...

pulls up containing Sherman.     Peter peers into the car.

near the door to the building comes alive. Slowly, at

first. They turn their heads toward the car and then

they start moving, walking, running, racing toward the

car.

as this mob of reporters and cameramen attack the car in

the pouring rain.

But Peter is buried in the onslaught before he can say

another word.

Martin goes. Killian climbs over Sherman.      Goldberg

puts cuffs on Sherman.

help Sherman out of the car and all hell breaks loose.

SOMEONE sticks a camera into Sherman's face.

Goldberg, Martin and Killian try to push through the mob.

Goldberg swings at a camera and knocks it down.

Peter Fallow falls to the ground.     Sherman and Goldberg

step on him as they push ahead.

A microphone is shoved into Sherman's face.

Kramer is enjoying all this.

assaulted by cameras, microphones and people as he is

pushed through the metal door. Killian is being left

outside.

pulls himself up off the ground.     He is more dazed than

hurt.

A)   Sherman's cuffs are removed.

B)   The contents of Sherman's pockets are laid on

C)   Sherman removes his belt.    His pants drop to his

D)   Sherman removes his shoelaces and drops them on a

is led quickly toward the cells. His shoes flop, his

pants sag, he trips and almost falls. A cell door opens.

Sherman is pushed inside. He turns to look back. The

door bangs shut.

is calling out...

opens a side door.   We wait. Nothing. Then the sound

of FEET SHUFFLING.   Finally, Sherman appears. He looks

like a man who has  been dragged through hell -- his

body, his clothing,  the look in his eyes. He staggers

toward the bench.

seated in the front row of the spectators.

is facing Judge White. Killian is next to him.     Kramer

is representing the District Attorney's office.

Sudden commotion in the courtroom.     Sherman turns to

look at...

Press and spectators are already buzzing out of control.

The Spectators are booing and yelling at Killian to

shut up.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                 95.         *

approaches Sherman.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                     96.

FOLLOW him INTO...

finds Judy and Bonita putting dinner together.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                     97/98.

She leaves.

as she sails into the kitchen, she sees Judy leave.

comes out of the kitchen. As he tries to make his way

through the living room, trying to avoid the guests...

intercepting Sherman.     Sherman keeps walking.   Pollard

follows.

FOLLOW them INTO...

goes to the closet and pulls out the shotgun.

He loads the gun and fills his pockets with shells.

FOLLOW Sherman and Pollard OUT of the study TO...

The guests begin to listen to this exchange.

Sherman points the gun at Pollard.

Everyone watches as Sherman holds Pollard at gunpoint and

steers him out of the room.

The guests applaud.    Sherman turns to face them.

The guests look confused, they don't really believe

him. Sherman aims the GUN at the ceiling. He FIRES.

EXPLOSION. People scream.

waves the smoking shotgun at them.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                 104.

Evelyn Moore approaches Gerald.

Gerald and Evelyn lead Peter toward the back dining room.

Caroline Heftshank intercepts them.     She is very drunk.

Peter makes excuses to Gerald and Evelyn and follows

Caroline away.

come into the office.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                   105.

She reaches under her skirt and pulls off her panties.

She drops them on the floor.

Caroline climbs up on the desk, lifts her skirt and sits

down on the Xerox machine.

She switches ON the MACHINE, which starts PHOTOCOPYING

her twat.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                   106.         *

She takes one of the Xerox copies and hands it to Peter.

Peter leaves. Caroline looks at the Xerox copy.

points Fallow toward Arthur Ruskin's table.

seated at a table as Peter approaches. The Maitre d'

seats them side by side on a banquette.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                  107.         *

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                 107A.

are bringing the main course to the table. Arthur is

guzzling wine as he talks. Peter is bored silly.

He starts to laugh as he talks.

Peter tries to laugh with Arthur. But Arthur's coughing

turns into a spasm. He pushes his head back against

the banquette. He seems to be humming. And then his

head drops forward and he slumps against Peter.

He tries to signal a waiter.

The Maitre d' approaches the table.

Arthur drops forward suddenly, his face hitting his

plate. A woman at the next table squeals.

Two waiters   help the Maitre d' pull the table out.

Arthur slips   off his plate and falls onto the floor.

Some people   notice. But, in general, the activity

in the room   continues.

The Maitre d' gives orders to the waiters.

A MAN approaches Peter.

Peter tries to perform the Heimlich maneuver on Ruskin.

Peter lets go of Ruskin.    Ruskin slides to the floor --

dead.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                 111.

is landing.

comes out of Customs.    She is wearing black and has a

veil over her face.

approaches her.   They walk as they talk...

move toward Maria's waiting limousine.

is still at the microphone.

is moving around, trying to find Maria.

A lounge singer in a pale blue suit hops onto the stage,

sits at the piano and launches into a totally

inappropriate rendition of "September in the Rain."

leaving the viewing room.

looking from room to room.

is trying to embrace Sherman. He remains "hunched" over,

trying to stay away from her and keep her hands off his

back.

Her hands slide down his back.

She rips open his shirt.

She pulls the wire. Sherman yelps in pain. As he spins

around, Maria grabs the tapedeck and pulls it off his

back. More pain.

A KNOCK at the door.       They freeze.

Sherman heads out the back door.

The door flies open...

runs in, not sure what he's doing...

Kramer is smitten.

is sitting alone in the empty apartment. Almost every-

thing is gone -- furniture, rugs, paintings. Sherman has

a tape recorder in front of him. In his hand he holds

two tapes.

There is a KNOCK at the door.

as Sherman opens it.       Sherman's father is standing there.

FOLLOW them INTO...

Mr. McCoy offers his hand in a handshake.

Sherman takes his hand. Mr. McCoy puts his arm around

him and hugs him awkwardly but effectively. They

separate.

is banging his gavel, trying to silence the overflowing

courtroom.

Some demonstrators are climbing on the statue to get a

better view.

On the stand as Kramer questions her.

BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/18/90                  129.

A roar goes up from the crowd.

Sherman and Killian at the defense table. In the

audience, Bacon, Fox, Gerald Moore, Weiss and finally

Peter Fallow taking notes.

smiling.

Suddenly, Maria's RECORDED VOICE BLASTS into the courtroom.

White bangs his gavel. Everyone is looking around for                      *

the source of the sound.

The court goes crazy. White regains order.           Sudden                *

silence in time for everyone to hear...

Absolute pandemonium. Fallow starts to laugh. Kramer

pulls Sherman's briefcase off a chair revealing a hidden

tape recorder. He bangs and kicks the recorder, trying

to make it stop. Maria faints on the stand. Killian is

amazed and amused. He looks at Sherman. Sherman smiles.

Killian takes the tape from the recorder.

approach the bench.    The courtroom grows more quiet.

Killian is shocked.    They continue speaking in whispers.

Sherman, Killian and Kramer return to their seats.

The court starts screaming again.

He bangs the gavel until the noise subsides.

The courtroom explodes.    Screams fill the air -- "Racist!

Peckerwood! Pussyface!     Motherfucker!" etc. The sound

is deafening.

Sherman and Killian shake hands. The demonstrators are

chanting, "Justice! Justice! Justice!"

burst open.    Reporters and photographers rush into the

room.

rises on the bench like an eagle.    He pounds the gavel

repeatedly.

Finally, the courtroom goes quiet. White looks around.                *

Everyone is quiet. And then a single VOICE rings out...

Silence.

More silence.    He comes down off the bench, facing the

mob.

A moment of quiet as White comes down and faces Sherman.

as another blood-curdling roar goes up from the crazed

mob. They close in on the Judge and Sherman.

with a bullhorn, egging on the crowd.

closing in on Sherman and the Judge. The Judge grabs               *

Sherman and pulls him through the door.                            *

As he rises unsteadily to his feet the room goes wild

with applause. Peter waves and makes his way toward the

podium.

Peter reaches the podium and faces a standing ovation.

Cameras begin to flash. END CREDITS BEGIN.

BEGINNING WITH Peter at the podium and CONTINUING to

include SHOTS of everyone congratulating Peter -- Albert            *

Fox, Reverend Bacon, Abe Weiss, Gerald Moore, Fillippo

Chiarazzi, Kramer, etc. Finally the flashing cameras

fade and we...

lying in his bed.  Perfectly still. And then his nose

twitches. His hand  comes up and scratches his nose. His

eyes open. He sits  up, looks around, figures where he

is. He gets out of  bed, disconnects the I.V.

comes out of hospital, he smiles and walks away down

the street.

