EXT. BOYLESTON STREET, BOSTON -- MORNING

The boulevard is empty, eerie silence. No cars, no people. A man

walks down the middle of the street, long trench, dark shades.

Though he does not speak, we hear...

We recognize this man as ROCCO. He crosses Copley Square toward the

looming dome of the Trinity Church.

FADE TO BLACK...

EXT. DEEP COUNTRYSIDE -- DAY

SUBTEXT:   "Ireland"

From behind we see two men perched atop a boulder. A flock of sheep

encircles them. Their army sacks and shotguns are nearby. They roll

their own cigarettes with effortless synchronicity and light up.

CONNOR and MURPHY MacMANUS (30's) now have long hair with heavy

facial growth. Rugged. Piercing eyes. Looking to the horizon...

EXT. FIELDS -- LATER

MOODY MUSIC: The brothers drive the flock across jewel green hills.

Murphy cuts a sheep from a thicket and sets it off.

Connor shares some jerky with a sheep dog as the flock surges.

Murphy touches the faded Celtic Cross tattoo on his forearm. Connor

sees. The music takes us to a secluded, pioneer-esque ranch.

CLOSE ON: POPPA M's (58yrs) face as he coughs and watches his sons

approach from his rocking chair on the porch.

INT. FARMHOUSE -- NIGHT

Poppa M and his sons eat a rustic dinner.   It storms outside.

Poppa M looks to his boys who just keep eating. DIP TO BLACK...

INT. FARMHOUSE, FRONT PORCH -- NEXT MORNING

Very early dawn, shadowy morning light. Connor and Murphy sip

coffees and look out into the rain. Lightening lights up the flock.

Through the open door behind them, Poppa M stokes a warm fire.

Connor touch the Celtic Cross tattoo on his forearm. The boys look

at each other as the rain suddenly stops and all the "little sounds"

of morning cease. Something's amiss. Thunder. Ominous music as...

EXT. BOSTON, TRINITY CHURCH -- NIGHT

From behind, we see a man with a CREW CUT, staring at the dome of

the Trinity.

SLO-MO, CLOSE ON: Crew Cut's boots as he paces toward.    The

threatening music bleeds over to...

EXT. FARM -- MOMENTS LATER

Just inside the trees, a pack of wolves stalk the sheep flock...

SLO-MO, CLOSE ON:   A wolf's paws as it paces toward...

We intercut between BOSTON and IRELAND as chaos erupts...

BOSTON:    Crew Cut quickly enters the church.

IRELAND:    The wolves burst from the tree line.

BOSTON: A frantic priest in his 50's weeps and begs as Crew Cut

slams him to his knees with a .9 mm to his head.

IRELAND:   The wolves savagely attack the screaming sheep.

BOSTON:    Muzzle flash, blood splatters on the altar.

IRELAND: BOOM! BOOM! Connor and Murphy blast shotguns at the

wolves. One is hit, the rest retreat. The boys perform mercy

killings on the wolf and one sheep.

Everything calms as Poppa M rushes up with a mag light and stops.

He coughs roughly. Moody choral music begins...

EXT. FIELD -- LATER

The boys toss the wolf carcass onto a bonfire.     It rains again.

Poppa M looks across the blaze to his sons. Connor and Murphy stare

into the fire, bathed in the light of angry flames.

EXT. FARM -- NIGHT

Downpour. A rugged old jeep tears through the mud. It stops at the

farmhouse. Poppa M and the boys come out onto the porch. A dark

figure with a fedora and rain slicker exits the jeep and hurries to

the porch. Meet Uncle SIBEAL (62yrs). He wears a priest's collar.

EXT. CHURCH -- MORNING

Breaking news. REPORTER #1 is live from outside a church.   Squads,

coroner's vans, CSI etc. Police hold back crowds.

NEWS FOOTAGE:   People scream as they run out of a courthouse.

NEWS FOOTAGE:   A body is wheeled out on a gurney.

Grainy, unclear security footage of three men walking the court

halls, two in heavy black jackets, one in a trench...

We are back with Reporter #1 at the church.

INT. FARMHOUSE -- NIGHT

Sibeal, Poppa M, Connor and Murphy sit around the table.   The boys

have a look of controlled anger. Presently...

The boys flash with recognition.

Sibeal considers this.    He genuflects and turns.

Connor and Murphy are out the door and headed for the barn.

Confused, Sibeal looks to Poppa M, who just sips his coffee.

INT. BARN -- MOMENTS LATER

MOODY MUSIC: The boys begin to look more like "themselves" as the

they cut their hair and beards with sheep sheers.

The brothers lift a chest from a hole in the barn floor. They load

guns and money into black duffel bags and place their signature

rosaries around their necks, clasping their hands in prayer...

INT. TRINITY CHURCH, ALTER -- MOMENTS LATER

Detective GREENLY (38yrs) is alone on the alter. Police line all

around as Greenly stares at the body like the detective has seen a

ghost. He turns and nervously staggers toward the front vestibule.

INT. VESTIBULE -- SAME TIME

Detectives DOLLY and DUFFY are scared.   In hushed tones...

Greenly enters from the church proper.   Dolly and Duffy turn.

EXT. RAPID FLASHBACK SEQUENCE, "ACCESSORY TO MURDER"

Greenly, disguised as a correctional officer, lets Connor, Murphy

and Poppa M out of a paddywagon. FLASH!

The Saints enter the Suffolk Courthouse, undetected.   FLASH!

Dolly, dressed as a civilian, pulls the fire alarm.    FLASH!

The Saints execute Poppa Joe Yakavetta before many terrified

witnesses, the alarm blaring in the b.g. FLASH!

INT. BACK TO PRESENT, VESTIBULE -- MOMENTS LATER

They all argue over one another. OFFICER #1 peaks his head in the

front door. The detectives grind to a halt.

EXT. GRAVEYARD -- MORNING

CLOSE ON:   a gravestone.   "Paul M. Smecker,    1956 - 2003"

We reveal a pair of sexy female legs, expensive "Jimmy Choo" heels.

From behind we see the woman rest a rose at Smecker's Grave. "Legs"

turns and walks toward a waiting squad car in b.g.

EXT. CHURCH -- MOMENTS LATER

Dolly, Duffy and Greenly stand outside in the entry way of the

church. Though still on edge, they have calmed.

Duffy whips out his trusty note pad.

The cops suddenly flush with fear.

INT. FARMHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Sibeal waits as Poppa M thinks, then shakes his head.

Poppa M shakes his head.

Fear and frustration burst from Sibeal.

The door opens and in comes Connor and Murphy. Sibeal notes the

change in appearance. The boys stand at the kitchen table's

opposing end, hands in their pockets. Their resolve fills the room.

The brothers face off with Poppa M and Sibeal: a bizarre board

meeting. Poppa M cocks a brow at Sibeal who clears his throat.

Silence. Nobody moves. Connor withdraws a hand from his pocket and

looks down. He flips a penny on the table. It clatters to a stop.

EXT. CHURCH -- LATER

A squad pulls up.    Dolly, Duffy and Greenly turn.

They all nod and stiffen their resolve.

Rockin' music fades in as a uniform opens the squad door.

SLO-MO:   EUNICE BLOOM (32yrs) exits the squad and moves toward.

She is simply delicious: sexy, blonde hair, a woman's business

suit, short skirt, brass rimmed specs. Each detective's face drops.

Soon she is before them. Music cuts. She smiles and speaks with a

southern drawl a la Doc Holiday.

Dolly and Duffy shake and manage a nod.    Greenly is still enamored.

She chuckles.   Dolly and Duffy fume.

The cops are dumbfounded.      Duffy snaps out of it.

The detectives harden, brick wall.     Eunice furrows her brow.

After a moment of consideration, the cops concede with nods.

Eunice turns and looks over the crowd.

Greenly escorts her as Dolly and Duffy walk behind, mystified.

INT. VESTIBULE -- MOMENTS LATER

Eunice stands, looking down the aisle at the altar. Behind her, the

Detectives are curios as Eunice slides on pink latex gloves.

She puts in ear plugs and all ambient sound ceases.   She starts

slowly down the aisle...

TOTAL SILENCE AS...Eunice inspects the smashed door of a

confessional booth. She looks over the body closely then turns from

the altar and walks to the detectives. She pulls her earplugs and

all sound returns.

The detectives nod.

Eunice stands right in front of Dolly.

Dolly fumes.   Duffy and Greenly share an "oh shit" look.

Eunice furrows her brow.

INT. CHURCH, ALTAR -- MOMENTS LATER

Close up on Greenly's enraptured face. We pull back and see he is

on his knees before Eunice and staring longingly between her legs.

Duffy and Dolly stand behind Greenly, chest to chest, each mimicking

guns to the back of the kneeling cop's head.

This is torture for Greenly and he turns his head from Eunice's

crotch. She immediately adjusts him back into place.

Eunice circles around, positioning herself between Dolly and Duffy.

She aims both hands to the back of Greenly's head.

INT. FLASHBACK, CHURCH -- NIGHT BEFORE

Crew Cut holds two guns to the back of the pleading priest's head.

He fires and McKinney falls. Crew Cut steps forward and we see his

face in the light. Piercing, ice blue, sociopathic eyes. WHIP PAN!

INT. BACK TO PRESENT, CHURCH -- MOMENTS LATER

Greenly lays flat on his stomach.

INT. FLASHBACK, CHURCH -- NIGHT BEFORE

Crew Cut flips the body, showing little respect. He pulls out two

pennies and looks at them. He chuckles. WHIP PAN...

INT. BACK TO PRESENT, CHURCH -- MOMENTS LATER

Eunice kneels, putting her pointer fingers just below Greenlys eyes.

She slides her fingers to Greenly's lower cheeks.    He's putty.

Eunice stands and points the a broken down confessional booth door.

INT. FLASHBACK, CHURCH -- NIGHT BEFORE

Crew Cut exits his confessional and kicks in the priest's door.       He

pulls the terrified cleric out. Close on a gash in the door.

WHIP PAN!

INT. BACK TO PRESENT, CHURCH -- MOMENTS LATER

EXT. OPEN SEA -- DAY

We drift over open sea to a huge cargo freighter, the Killian

Farris, plodding toward Northeast.

INT. SHIP'S DRY STORAGE LOCK -- MOMENTS LATER

Connor and Murphy stack grain.    A MEXICAN SEAMAN (23yrs) appears...

INT. SHIP'S HOLD -- MOMENTS LATER

Seamen cheer as a large, ruffian GIANT (33yrs) and a Latino fight.

David and Goliath. Meet ROMEO (30yrs), pony tail, shorn sides and a

perpetual smile. Romeo's hands are chained behind him.

Romeo bobs, weaves and fakes, avoiding many punches. The Giant

spews angry French all the while. The boys step up as money moves

and men bet. Connor to the same Mexican Seaman in Spanish.

The brothers whip out money and give it to the Sailor.

We track with the fighting. Tattooed across Romeo's back, "LA

RAZA." Nearby, French ROUGHNECKS #1 and #2 scream in their native

tongue to the Giant and he stops and rests.

The Giant swings but Romeo slides under his legs. Cheers! Romeo

jumps up, swinging his hands under his feet, still bound but in

front of him now.

Romeo catches his opponent's wrist and wraps his chain around. A

kick in the stomach drops the Giant to his knees. Romeo locks the

man's head between his legs, scissor hold.

The Giant falls. Romeo keeps his wrist locked as he chokes him out.

The Giant passes out and Romeo stands to cheers.   Roughneck's #1 and

#2 fume as Romeo takes a bow. The boys clap.

INT. HATCHWAY -- MOMENTS LATER

Romeo emerges from the head, chains still on. Roughnecks #1 and #2

move down the hatchway toward him, wielding metal pipes. He looks

at his chains.

The brothers emerge from the shadows, cutting them off.

The boys speak French. At first, the Roughnecks are surprised but

the argument escalates. The Roughnecks swing their pipes and in a

brutal display, the boys dispatch them quickly, leaving one

unconscious and the other gasping for air. The boys turn...

They laugh as they move to the semi-conscious Frenchman.

LOW ANGLE:    looking up at our trio, Romeo is in the middle.

Romeo's foot smashes to camera, blacking us out.

INT. VESSEL, BERTH -- NIGHT

The boys slumber, side by side in hammocks.     We pull close on them.

Silence. They whisper in unison...

Their eyes pop open.

INT. BERTH -- LATER

Murphy rigs a needle to an ink pen. Connor clicks on a hot plate.

The boys listen intently to a tiny hand radio nearby.

The boys flash with recognition.

INT. HIGH CLASS HOME, DINING ROOM -- NIGHT

Rich, Italian decor, long table, laden with food. CAPOS 1-6 sit in

utter shock, looking to their boss, CONCEZIO YAKAVETTA (37yrs) who

heads the table.

He returns to eating. A moment of silence then the Capos burst into

anger. Capo #1 slams a fist down and stands, silencing the lot.

Concezio wipes his mouth, stands and adjusts his cuffs.   He slowly

circles the table as he speaks.

A few roll their eyes at this verbal blunder.

Some look as if they are starting to get his point.

Fear and realization.

Heads nod in shameful agreement.

Heads nod all around.   Sold.

INT. BERTH -- LATER

Murphy sits, bare chested on a crate. With the rigged pen, he

tattoos his brother's back. Connor cooks something, in a pot, on

the hot plate. The resin of anger is evident.

TATTOOS: Murphy's back has the crucified feet of Christ and

Connor's shows Christ's downcast head on the cross.

The berth door is slightly ajar. In pops a bottle of Whiskey, then

Romeo's head. He's expecting a cheer but the brothers have their

backs to him. He's instantly taken by their ink.

Romeo listens with suspicion.

Connor laughs heartily.

Murphy stabs the ink pen into his brother's shoulder.

Connor bolts up, knocking over the pot. Hot water and pennies

spread across the floor. Connor pulls the pen out.

Romeo steps inside and sees the pennies.

The boys are just about to fight when...

The brothers snap their heads toward.   A stunned Romeo points to

them, then the pennies.

Murphy moves behind Romeo, shuts the door and shoves him in.

Connor pulls a gun. The boys jump on Romeo and pin him to the

floor. Murphy clasps a hand over Romeo's mouth. Connor puts the

gun to Romeo's head. Their faces glaze over, religious ecstasy...

Romeo's eyes go wide and muffled cries of terror are heard.

He pulls the trigger - "click."

The boys laugh, snatch the bottle.   Romeo is in shock.

The brothers laugh harder. Romeo rolls on his side and slides a

hand down the back of his pants. He seems relieved.

INT. BERTH -- LATER

The boys and Romeo smoke and pass the bottle around.

The boys laugh.

The brothers seem pleased with themselves.

The boys look to one another.   They're stumped.

A slow smile splits Romeo's face.

INT. / EXT. NEWS FOOTAGE, MAN ON THE STREET INTERVIEWS

INT. BOSTON P.D., WAR ROOM -- MORNING

The CHIEF (50's) sits, arms folded. The detectives are present.

Eunice stands before a wall adorned with crime scene photos,

reports, Concezio and his Capos.

She taps Yakavetta's picture on the wall.

The Chief rubs his chin.

She nods to Duffy.

He stands and she takes his arm as they exit.     Duffy quietly closes

the door and turns. Hushed tones...

INT. PRECINCT HALL -- SAME TIME

The Chief and Eunice walk down the hall.

The Chief looks as if he is sold.

INT. WAR ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER

In hushed tones.

They argue.   Duffy snaps a photo of the dead priest from the wall.

EXT. BOSTON, DOCKS, PARKING LOT -- NIGHT

CLOSE ON: Connor, Murphy and Romeo peaking over a concrete wall.

Three sets of eyes.

Our trio is atop a dumpster, peaking over at the loading dock.

Chinese Gangsters supervise unloading of crates onto a flatbed.

Connor and Murphy smile.

Murphy claps Romeo on the shoulder.

INT. CAR -- LATER

Murphy looks displeased. We hear a stressing motor. Romeo drives,

Murphy sits shotgun. Connor is in back, loading guns. Pull back to

reveal our trio rides in a '68 VW Bug. It is green with patches of

Bondo, exposed engine, low-pro rims, neon runner board lights - a

low riding "work in progress."

INT. WAREHOUSE -- LATER

CHINESE GANGSTERS #1-#5, shovel mounds of coffee grounds out of

crates and pull kilos of white powder. Machinery noise in b.g.

EXT. WAREHOUSE -- SAME TIME

CLOSE ON:   Three sets of eyes peaking over oil drums.

Our trio watches as a DOCK WORKER (22yrs) drives a forklift,

unloading the crates from the flatbed and driving them through the

huge open bay doors. The boys and Romeo huddle up.

EXT. "THE PLAN," WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

The "Queen" classic, Another One Bites the Dust, presides over this

fantasy sequence. The boys, looking more "quaffed," do a pointless

slow motion walk toward the forklift, throwing up their collars.

Romeo, also looking polished, executes a "Dan Tana" pistol whipping

on the Dock Worker who perfectly out of frame.

INSIDE WAREHOUSE: The lift pulls to a stop before the gangsters,

crate on the forks. Romeo is behind the wheel.

SLO-MO: Connor and Murphy pop from the crate and fire on their

Asian foe, hitting each squarely in the chest.

SLO-MO: The boys leap down and light cigs as Romeo does the "one

arm action star hang" off the side of the lift in b.g. WHIP PAN...

EXT. WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Murphy looks unsure.     Connor turns to his brother.

The boys look to each other. Murphy shrugs. Relenting, Connor

pulls a metallic object and shoves it in Romeo's hand.

Romeo holds up the gun in displeasure, a tiny .22 caliber lady's

purse pistol. Murphy snickers.

Connor scopes the warehouse.   Murphy claps Romeo on the shoulder.

He turns and joins his brother as Romeo continues sulking.

As they spirit themselves off.   DISSOLVE TO...

INT. WAREHOUSE -- LATER

CRIME SCENE: Crime scene workers toil. We do not see specifics of

the scene, just enough to see the place is trashed and the bodies.

Greenly prowls the scene with his iPod playing. His musical choice

is the 80's Nightranger standby, "Motoring." He riffs on air guitar

while assessing. Dolly and Duffy look on...

EXT. WAREHOUSE -- SAME TIME

Eunice walks toward the crime scene with the CHIEF (50's).

They enter the...

INT. WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS

They reach the Detectives.      Greenly, still rockin', doesn't notice.

She smiles and nods.   Greenly removes his ear pieces.

INT. WAREHOUSE -- LATER

Eunice as she kneels at a body.      She stands and pulls her ear plugs.

Greenly looks emasculated. Dolly and Duffy smirk at him. Eunice

stands and prowls the scene, intense, intrigued, in her own world...

Pennies in eyes.    Hands crossed on bodies.

EXT. FLASHBACK, WAREHOUSE -- EARLIER

On the flatbed, the brothers shovel coffee out of the final crate

which rests on the forks of the lift. Below them stands the Dock

Worker holding his bleeding head. Romeo covers him with his 22.

Connor points his gun at the Dock Worker.

He runs off.   Romeo turns up to them.

Romeo hops into the driver's seat.

They pull wrapped white kilos.    Connor dips in a finger and tastes.

INT. WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Romeo's winging it, jerky moves, grinding gears as the forklift

staggers across the mammoth warehouse toward the gangsters at the

opposing end. The crate blocks Romeo from view. He's driving blind

as the rickety crate jiggles on the forks.

INSIDE CRATE:   Connor and Murphy are sardined, back to back.

Murphy peaks through a crack.

Connor puts his mouth to a knot hole.

Connor sticks his finger out the hole and points. Romeo wrenches

the wheel and they narrowly avoid machinery. The crate rocks...

The boys start elbowing each other in a close quarters scrap while

hurling obscenities.

INSIDE CRATE: Murphy suddenly stops, eyes wide as he looks through

the crack. They are headed for a "Mechanic's Well."   A long,

rectangular cement hole in the floor six feet deep.

Connor slams his mouth to the knot hole.

A few of the Chinese turn as Romeo slams on the brakes, screeching

to a halt just before the well. The crate slides right off and

falls in, disappears from sight. CRASH!

A large cloud of coffee dust plumes.   A wide eyed Romeo is exposed.

The Asian gangsters stare in shock.

Hard techno music! Suddenly, Romeo whips it in reverse, cranks the

wheel guns it and navigates the well. Speeds toward the gangsters.

MECHANIC'S WELL: (SLO-MO) The brothers burst from the debris,

covered in coffee grounds and white powder. They draw their weapons

and walk toward the ramp at the well's opposing end.

The Chinese pull and start firing. Romeo dives off and rolls behind

some machines. The lift continues on target.

The brothers emerge and tear right in, firing at the gangsters.

Romeo fires his useless 22. In the ensuing fire fight the brothers

kill all but Chinese Gangster #3.

The forklift crashes through the table with the stacked heroin.

SLO-MO: The brothers slam the final Gangster to his knees and level

to the back of his head and recite the following in synchronicity...

POP!   POP!    They kill him.   DIP TO BLACK...

INT. WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Haunting music. Black and White film as Connor and Murphy take

great care in ritualizing the bodies. They place pennies in eyes

and cross hands over chests. WHIP PAN...

EXT. BACK TO PRESENT, WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

Bodies are wheeled out in the b.g. as Dolly and Greenly talk

privately with Eunice.

Eunice looks over the mug shot.

Duffy approaches, hands Eunice a tiny bullet in a baggy.

They all look perplexed.

They all blank stare Greenly for a moment.        Moving on.

Eunice considers this.   The Detectives seem hopeful.

The detectives all look at one another nervously.

She walks off.   The cops look terrified.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- NIGHT

We see the hands of an OLD MAN (70) as he mists flowers in this lush

environment. He ambles to a shop table, wearing a metal leg brace,

circa 1950's and a corrective shoe, Polio. We do not see his face.

CLOSE ON: small black and white TV on table.     Breaking news.    Live

from the crime scene...

This gives way to...

INT. / EXT. NEWS FOOTAGE

The Saints pencil composites are shown.     From the studio...

STATIC!   CHANEL CHANGES!    Bodies are wheeled out...

EXT. ALLEY -- LATER

CLOSE ON:   A metal door opens revealing DOC (60's).

The brothers and Doc hug and greet as he ushers them in with Romeo

in tow. The bar is closed, empty.

INT. UPSTAIRS STORE ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER

Doc turns on the lights and they all enter. There is a far more

ornate and ancient bar up here: gothic pool table, dusty boxes,

cots set up, blankets, towels, hot-plate etc.

Murphy is already opening a bottle of Irish.

INT. "HIDE OUT PARTY MONTAGE" -- NIGHT

Festive music. A brisket boils on the hot-plate. Romeo and the

boys drink and relate the evening's antics to Doc. Dissolve to...

Later, they all enjoy an impromptu dinner on the pool table. The

eating does not slow their banter and laughter. Dissolve to...

Later, music fades. Silence as Connor and Doc stare each other down

across the pool table. Neither flinches. Murphy and Romeo watch

with intrigue as Doc stiffles his urge to pop off.

A moment passes and Doc is literally shaking.

The boys and Romeo burst into hysterics.   Doc rages.

EXT. / INT. "BELLA SANTE SALON" -- MORNING

Eunice enters the swanky salon and moves across the lobby.

INT. MASSAGE ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER

"Gorgeous" GEORGE (47yrs) is face down as a female masseuse works

his back, incense, mood music. Eunice silently slides in flashing

her badge, a finger to her pursed lips.

Uneasy, the woman continues her work as Eunice lotions her hands.

She covertly replaces the masseuse and motions her out of the room.

Eunice digs in as the fatted mobster moans with pleasure.

Eunice grabs a large massage paddle with rubber fingers. She whips

George's towel off, winds up and smacks him on his bare ass, HARD!!

George involuntarily jerks and rolls off the table.

He bolts to his feet.

He rounds the massage table, arms outstretched. Eunice draws her

side arm and sticks it in his face, halting him dead.

George sits. Eunice reholsters, wiggles her skirt straight and sits

on the massage table. George looks at her legs as she slowly

crosses them. Trepidation as he covers his genitals. Eunice smiles

as she flashes her FBI credentials. George relaxes.

George snaps his head to Eunice in shock, then recovers.

Eunice goes to leave but stops and turns back.

EXT. ESTABLISHING SHOT, "EL CAVA" RESTAURANT -- DAY

A Mexican joint, tucked away down by the docks.

INT. RESTAURANT -- SAME TIME

The boys, Romeo and UNCLE CESAR (58yrs) sit in a booth. Cesar is

noble looking, silver hair. Silence as he looks them over.

They begin to argue in Spanish.

Romeo swallows his anger.   Murphy speaks Spanish.

Cesar looks at Murphy surprised.   In English.

Connor nods while tapping his chest.

Cesar looks to his nephew with a new found respect and touches his

hand. Romeo is very affected by this. Back to business.

INT. THE GREEN MACHINE -- LATER

Romeo quietly weeps as he drives. The brothers are "highly aware"

and give respectful silence. As Romeo sniffles we show slow motion

remembrances of Cesar nodding and giving Romeo a look of respect and

then touching his nephew's hand.

Back in the Green Machine - an excruciating amount of time passes.

Murphy tries to break the ice.

A moment of silence....then all three burst into laughter.

INT. PRUDENTIAL BUILDING, LUXURY APARTMENT -- DAY

A sprawling high rise apartment, overlooking Boston: buffet table,

plasma screen, etc. The Capos are taking advantage of the

amenities. Concezio's not here. Capo #5 - #6 fill their plates...

They laugh. Suddenly, George enters with an overnight bag.      The

Capos are confused. Feigning a capitol mood...

George laughs. Nobody else does. He looks at the food table.      We

pull close on shrimp cocktail and cannoli. A look of dread.

In hustles JIMMY THE GOFER (20's), skinny, weak looking.

Jimmy draws back a large curtain, exposing a steel panic room. Next

to the vault door, is a video screen which displays the unamused

face of Concezio. His voice booms over loudspeakers.

George hustles over.   He stands before the screen, confused.

A terrified George hustles for the door.

George trips over his luggage.   The Capos giggle.

INT. HOTEL ROOM -- EVENING

Cheap, depressing room. Crew Cut, in his underwear, repairs a

broken rosary chain with string and puts it on.He pulls a shoe box

from a shopping bag. The brand is "Hushes." Slogan: "Measure up

to your dreams."

He puts on one shoe. Crew Cut stands before the mirror going up and

down on the one shoed foot, noting the height that has been added.

The shoe has been cleverly constructed to disguise the higher heel.

EXT. AUTO BODY -- EVENING

We are out back, among scrap cars. George talks with JO JO RHAMA

(38yrs). Jo Jo is built like a fire plug and clearly a hoodlum.

A priest.   The sick fuck.

And he leaves all of us on the streets

holding the bag while him and his are

living it up at the Taj fuckin' Majal,

not a care in the world.

So, until the Saints get popped, we're

all lambs to slaughter?

Yeah! And he don't care how many of us

they wipe out in the meantime!

What do you need me to do, Skipper?

Spread the word to all the brugliones.

No bullshit. From your mouth to their

ears.

Everyone? North and South?   That could

get a little dicey.

Fuck their old grudges. All of them

are in this, like it or not. Tell them

everything we discussed.

Even the panic room thing?

Sure.

Good. That's a nice ice breaker.

They'll get a kick outta that. I

didn't even know those things were

real. I thought they made that shit up

for that movie? With that brawd and

that kid? With those guys in that

house?

Panic Room?

EXT. AUTO BODY -- MOMENTS LATER

POV of binoculars as we see George exit the front of the auto body.

INT. HOTEL ROOM -- SAME TIME

Crew Cut looks through his binoculars as he continues to bounce up

and down on his special shoe. He smiles at the site of George.

INT. BOSTON POLICE DEPARTMENT, WAR ROOM -- NIGHT

A table laden with clip boards, bagged evidence, reports, etc.

Eunice finds a baggy with a tiny wooden bead in it. Greenly enters.

Duffy comes in with a stack of papers.   He heaves it down.

Eunice looks perplexed.   Dolly enters, sipping coffee.

Greenly stares at her ass as she exits.

Eunice suddenly re-enters the room with emergency.

Eunice is absorbed a photo on the wall of the priest's hand.

She turns and holds up the baggy.

Duffy goes to a mock up of the victim's body position on the wall.

They all dart out. With fire in her eyes, she looks closely at a

picture of the priest's wrist watch on the wall.

INT. FLASHBACK, CHURCH -- NIGHT

Crew Cut finishes ritualizing the priest and looks deeply at his

victim. He removes a glove and places his tiny hand next to

McKinney's large one. Silent rage. Bare handed, Crew Cut snatches

the priest's rosary from about his wrist, breaking the bead chain.

INT. MAUSOLEUM -- MORNING

The brothers and Romeo walk through the Mausoleum. They approach a

grave slate with respect. The name reads, "David Della Rocco."

There is a picture of him. Murphy narrows his eyes and leans in.

We see Murphy's finger denote a bad "airbrush" job.

Connor looks close.

The boys look at one another, then bust out laughing.

A sound. Instantly, the boys turn and level weapons. There stands

ROY (32yrs) thick glasses, geeky. He drops his flowers.

The boys reholster and look to one another.    Disapproval.

The boys continue to chat with Roy as Romeo answers his cell.

It's Cesar.

INT. TANNING SALON -- NIGHT

The Salon Manager approaches the back door with keys in hand.

The Manager lets George slip in. He steels into a tanning room.A

Mexican towel boy has spied George. He picks up a phone...

INT. MAUSOLEUM -- MOMENTS LATER

Romeo snaps his phone shut and turns to the boys.

The three walk for the door, leaving Roy behind.

EXT. GRAVEYARD -- MOMENTS LATER

Moody music as our trio walks through the gravestones.

INT. "TROPICAL TAN," TANNING ROOM -- NIGHT

The brothers and Romeo sneak up to the tanning bed. George sings a

Sinatra tune as his fat stomach props the cover up like a half open

clamshell. Suddenly, Murphy leaps up and sits on the cover. George

is being crushed beneath his weight. Connor kneels.

George struggles and nods. Murphy hops off. George spills out, hot

pink Speedos. On all fours and breathing heavy...

The boys pull weapons and throw him against the wall in a Jesus

Christ pose, pinning his hands with their guns.

The boys cock back the hammers on their weapons.

A ringing phone is heard. Romeo pulls George's Blackberry from

nearby. He tosses it to Connor. Text message, "WHERE?"

INT. EUNICE'S MERCEDES -- NIGHT

Eunice drives.   Her cell rings.   She checks the I.D. then...

Greenly is at his desk.   Alternating coverage.

She hangs up and we are left with Greenly.   Red handed.

INT. "EL CAVA," KITCHEN -- LATER

Close up, three shot. George, looking very uncomfortable, is

flanked by the brothers. He is positioned to covertly view the

restaurant from the kitchen.

We see NORTHSIDE BRUGLIONEs #1 - #3 and SOUTHSIDE BRUGLIONES #1 and

#2 are at the bar.

George grimaces.   Looks as if he'll cry.

We see the three men from behind. George is still in his Speedos,

which now have a pronounced shit stain in back.

INT. EL CAVA, BAR -- MOMENTS LATER

Romeo, frazzled and in a busboy uniform, has got two blenders of

margaritas going. The Brugliones mow through appetizers.

Northside doesn't interact with Southside and there is an empty bar

stool between them. N.S. Bruglione #1 slides Romeo a platter.

SOUTHSIDE BRUGLIONE #3 enters behind everyone.   All suddenly turn,

going for their guns.

Everyone calms. S.S. Bruglione #3 gives a respectful nod to the

Northside guys but sits with his own.

INT. EL CAVA, KITCHEN -- MOMENTS LATER

We do not see George just below frame as the boys are "working on

him" in some way, putting on finishing touches. Romeo barrels in.

EXT. PARKING LOT -- MOMENTS LATER

Jo Jo exits his Cadillac and walks toward El Cava.   There is a

"closed for private function" sign on the door.

INT. JACKED UP SUV, NEARBY -- SAME TIME

Crew Cut watches Jo Jo.   He dials his cell.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

From behind we see the Old Man gardening.    He answers a ringing

phone, nearby. We do not see his face.

INT. SUV -- MOMENTS LATER

The following conversation is in Italian.

Crew Cut develops a sinister smile.

INT. EL CAVA, KITCHEN -- MOMENTS LATER

Connor watches Jo Jo greet the others.    He turns to Romeo who is

angrily cooking up a storm.

Without missing a beat, Romeo slams the hot pans into a dish sink.

He stands fuming with his hands on his hips.

Murphy throws him a .9 mm.   Romeo smiles.

INT. BAR -- MOMENTS LATER

Suddenly, George comes rolling out of the kitchen, unconscious and

tied, face down, to a bus cart. There is writing on his back.

Everyone pulls their weapons and moves toward.

As the gangsters achieve the cart, the brothers creep over the bar

in the b.g. Brugliones look down on George, painted on his back...

Connor and Murphy are standing 25 feet behind them.

Hard core music as the Brugliones turn in horror. Everyone begins

firing and we have slow motion gunplay to pulsating music.

Several are chewed up as chests explode and they are blown into

George on the cart, knocking it over. George comes to.

Romeo appears and tears in, sending several more crashing into the

salad bar.

Murphy, while firing, dives back over the bar as bottles explode.

Connor rapid fires as he dives into a booth.

The boys rise and lay out a second barrage, blasting the rest into

buffet tables and a soda fountain. The music cuts.

George bolts up.    The bus cart is still tied to his fat belly.

Connor slips one bullet in a revolver, spins the barrel and snaps it

shut. He points it to George's forehead. George weeps in earnest.

He slowly cocks the hammer back, pulls trigger, "click."

The terrified ex-gangster staggers toward an exit while wriggling

out of his bonds. Just as he touches the door.

George nods and exits. Romeo is confused as our trio gathers.

Connor tosses the bullet he palmed to Romeo and he nods.

SLO-MO: Suddenly, Eunice bursts through the kitchen door and levels

her weapon at the brothers and Romeo. Romeo levels back.

Eunice fires as the boys dive on Romeo. Crew Cut is revealed behind

our trio, firing from the shadows. Eunice and Crew Cut exchange

fire as the boys reload.

Eunice hits Crew Cut in the side. The assassin has a moment of

outrage but persists firing as he makes a hasty exit.

In the confusion it is a few moments before anyone realizes he is

gone. Silence falls. Presently, Romeo and the boys bolt up. Romeo

goes for the door and the boys level at Eunice.

She "places" her gun on a nearby table.

The boys are before her as Romeo returns.

The boys reholster.    She drops her arms.

They shake.

The boys nod.   Romeo points to the front door.

The boys look at each other.   Frustration.   Anger.

The boys chuckle.

Eunice denotes the bodies.

Rockin' music overtakes as we DISSOLVE TO...

INT. EL CAVA -- LATER

With Eunice directing them, the boys and Romeo restage the crime

scene. With a squeegee they move pools of blood across the linoleum

floor and re-position bodies.

The boys wrap Jo Jo's body in a tarp and put it in the Green

Machine. Romeo creates blood splatter with a turkey baster.

Romeo and the brothers place the guns they used in the hands of dead

gangsters as Eunice drops bullet casings in carefully chosen spots.

Romeo and the brothers leave with the utensils used to rig the

scene. The music fades, leaving Eunice in the center of...

INT. EL CAVA -- LATER

Silence. She removes her ear plugs and the sound returns. We are

on a very different looking scene. CSI, forensics, even Dolly and

Duffy wait with baited breath. Greenly is not present.

Dolly and Duffy open their notepads.

INT. FLASHBACK, EL CAVA -- NEVER

Northside stands facing off with the Southside. All brugliones are

frozen in place. Eunice saunters down the middle. Cool music...

A pause as they size each other up.

Eunice points to men as he moves down the line.

All the Brugliones yell over one another.

S.S. Brulione #1 flashes a gun in his waist band.

N.S. Bruglione #1 pulls his weapon.

They all pull and level at one another. They freeze in place and

all yelling ceases as Eunice walks down the middle.

Eunice looks deeply at all the men as she turns a slow circle.

Eunice stands before S.S. Brulione #2.

BOOM! They all start shooting as Eunice stands in the crossfire

unaffected. Men fall dead and we see the relevance of each thing

Eunice did to doctor the scene. WHIP PAN...

INT. BACK TO PRESENT, EL CAVA -- LATER

Heads nod agreement.   Greenly enters and flashes a file to Eunice.

EXT. EL CAVA -- MOMENTS LATER

Press clamors for the story in the b.g. Eunice and the detectives

are in a private spot. Greenly excitedly hands her the file.

Eunice opens the file.   Picture of Crew Cut.    Dolly and Duffy read

over her shoulder.

Eunice smiles and speaks to Crew Cut's photo...

The cops nod.   Eunice turns and starts to move away...

INT. MERCEDES -- MOMENTS LATER

Eunice drives.    The Detectives look nervous.

EXT. MCGINTY'S PUB -- LATER

Eunice pulls to a stop. At the sight of the place, the cops turn

white as a ghost. All exit the vehicle and walk toward.

She knocks on the door.   The cops are mortified.

Doc opens it and lets them all into...

INT. MCGINTY'S -- CONTINUOUS

Connor and Murphy are seated at the bar. They turn.   The cops are

dumbfounded. Duffy turns to Eunice, mystified.

Dolly actually drops to his knees in abject relief. Greenly laughs

and plants a kiss on Eunice's cheek. Doc pours shots. Eunice

smiles as all her guys hug and make merry. DISSOLVE TO...

INT. MCGINTY'S -- LATER

Doc smiles from the bar as the group raises for a toast.

They all laugh, cheers and drink. Conversations buzz all around.

Eunice chats with the boys as she sips a cosmo.

She hands the INTERpol file to the brothers.

Everyone else cuts their conversation and listens.

They all chuckle.

They each offer an arm and move her toward the door.

She stops at the door and turns.    Her face shows concern.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- LATER

Crew Cut lies on the shop table. He's lost a lot of blood and is in

shock. Using gardening utensils, the Old Man removes the bullet.

We see his face for the first time. Unremarkable. In Italian...

INT. BASEMENT -- NIGHT

The Irish GUN DEALER (30's) from the first film leads the brothers

and Romeo through a basement to a large, steel vault door.

He swings the vault open. Romeo and the boys stand in angelic light

at the gates of Heaven. Cheesy music as they enter...

INT. VAULT -- CONTINUOUS

Expanded indeed. Gleaming weapons everywhere. Sheer awe.

Something catches Romeo's eye and he moves off. To boys...

He withdraws two Mahogany boxes.

He lifts the lids. In each box is a pair of Desert Eagle .50 cal

"Black Outs". The triangular barrels have been fitted with matching

triangular silencers. The boys are mystified.

He pulls a few duffel bags.

Romeo suddenly appears and slaps down a metal box.

The boys look to him.    He sniffles.   Red eyes.

Romeo snaps to him, eyes wide in challenge.

Romeo withdraws two gold plated .45's, intricately engraved, pearl

handles with a Mexican flag. The boys snicker.

Romeo poses.    The Dealer shrugs.

EXT. COMMON HOME -- MORNING

This is a common home at the end of a cul de sac. The Old Man picks

up the paper on his front stoop and shuts the door.

He opens the paper with shock. A big picture of Crew Cut on the

front, "SAINTS INNOCENT, NEW SUSPECT IN PRIEST'S MURDER" He reads

frantically. "New evidence discovered at the crime scene..."

He ambles into the house and to a...

INT. BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

The Old Man moves to Crew Cut's bedside. He sees the rosary about

the slumbering man's neck and rips it off. Crew Cut bolts awake!

He whips Crew Cut with the rosary, until he cowers in the corner,

weeping profuse apologies in Italian.

INT. PANIC ROOM -- AFTERNOON

Monitors show angles of the apartment outside. This small space is

equipped for single living. Yakavetta is frazzled, baggy eyed in a

robe. Jimmy the Gofer sits quietly as Concezio babbles to himself.

Concezio smacks him across the face.

INT. LUXURY APARTMENT -- MOMENTS LATER

The Capos huddle up.   Hushed tones.

With this, the panic room door slides open and Concezio emerges

holding a bag. He dumps a bunch of cell phones on the coffee table.

All are relieved and words of approval flow.

Nearby, Jimmy knocks over a bottle of wine, CRASH! Concezio dives

back into the panic room. The door slides shut. DISSOLVE TO...

EXT. THE PRUDENTIAL BUILDING -- NIGHT

Dolly drives a laundry truck into the Pru's loading dock area.

INT. LAUNDRY TRUCK -- NIGHT

Dolly backs it up to the dock and pulls to a stop.   He turns.

Romeo, in a laundry uniform, emerges from the back pushing a loaded

laundry cart. He enters a...

INT. UTILITY HALL -- MOMENTS LATER

At the hall's opposing end, two maintenance workers move toward.

Romeo sees and quickly puts his head down. Soon, Romeo and the

maintenance men converge. They turn, entering opposing elevators.

INT. ROMEO'S ELEVATOR -- CONTINUOUS

As the doors close, Romeo looks into the opposing elevator. The

maintenance men are Duffy and Greenly, ball caps, duffel bags.

As the elevator ascends, Romeo swipes off the laundry, pulls the

false top. The brothers pop out in their usual garb. Weapons

emerge and they gear up. Romeo looks unsure...

Ding!   Romeo has a look of dread.

Romeo firms himself up as the door opens.

Romeo exits with the cart. The boys remain.    The doors close.

Connor and Murphy look at each other.

FLASH TO WHITE...

INT. LUXURY APARTMENT -- NIGHT

A demolished environment. The towering windows are blown out,

providing a threatening view of the city below. Here, Eunice

stands, looking out over the panorama.

She turns and walks the marble floor which is like a runway, lined

with pulverized statues. A long table of ravaged food extends.

Crime scene personnel toil. Ritualized bodies everywhere.   Greenly

is by the panic room. He pushes the "talk" button.

He joins Dolly and Duffy who stand on the periphery. Eunice is dead

center, absorbing the scene when suddenly, FBI Agent JOHN KUNTSLER

barrels in with his G-MEN #1 - #3.

He holds up his I.D.   A collective groan from crime scene personnel.

The detectives look to Kuntsler's G-men as if squaring off.

He chuckles as all return to work.   Kuntsler turns to Eunice.

Kuntsler's shit eating grin disappears.   He leans in.   Hushed tones.

Dolly, Duffy and Greenly chorus the affirmative. Kuntsler looks

unsure then phonies up some bravado. Looks around...

Kuntsler looks.   Sure enough.   His eyes widen.

Kuntsler looks.   Sure enough.

Kuntsler's men look embarrassed.

FLASH TO WHITE...

INT. LUXURY APARTMENT -- EARLIER

Eunice, alone, saunters before the huge windows which are now

intact. Concezio holds court nearby. He is shaved and dressed.

His Capos sit around in a loose semi-circle. There are six

dangerous looking men standing shoulder to shoulder before them.

A chorus of protest.

WHIP PAN...

EXT. BACK TO PRESENT, ROOF OF PRUDENTIAL -- NIGHT

Eunice walks the roof with Kuntsler et al in tow.

They halt before a window washing scaffold.

FLASH TO WHITE...

EXT. FLASHBACK, SCAFFOLD -- NIGHT

Duffy, Greenly and the boys descend the tower. Greenly works the

controls as Duffy helps the boys tie on harnesses.

The boys start yelling over each other.   Duffy turns to Connor.

Murphy regards his brother, "well?"   Pause.

INT. JANITOR CLOSET -- SAME TIME

Romeo peeks out a cracked door at a Mafioso guard. LLOYD (33yrs), a

janitor, gagged and duct taped to a hand truck. He has a shiner.

Romeo looks through his wallet.

Lloyd nods and Romeo rips off his gag.

EXT. SCAFFOLD -- LATER

Eunice stands alone on the end of the scaffold.

The scaffold suddenly stops.

The boys look over the edge.     Long way down.

They start counting out lengths of rope by feeding them through

their hands and extending their arms out to the sides.

INT. JANITOR CLOSET -- SAME TIME

Lloyd struggles to think.

EXT. SCAFFOLD -- SAME TIME

The boys' ropes are secured and they each pull a Rambo knife.

INT. HALLWAY -- SAME TIME

Romeo, pushing his cart, jives down the hall toward the guard,

singing "La Couca Racha." The guard puts out a halting hand.

WHIP PAN...

INT. BACK TO PRESENT, LUXURY APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Eunice stands dead center.   Everyone watches...

FLASH TO WHITE...

FANTASY SEQUENCE:   Cool Country Western music!

CLOSE ON:   A pair of cowboy boots pacing toward.

Eunice stands before the looming windows.    The immaculate food table

stretches before her.

She is now in full cowgirl regalia: Leather chaps, rawhide coat,

boots, cowboy hat and a pair of gleaming six guns on her hips.

With the brim of her hat slung low, Eunice bursts into twirling

gunplay with her Colts. She spins them all around, flipping them,

catching them, etc. She holsters and stops.

EXT. SCAFFOLD -- SAME TIME

First, Connor jumps off, then Murphy.    They fall down and out in

slow motion, knives in hand.

INT. LUXURY APARTMENT -- MOMENTS LATER

Eunice rolls the chamber of one of her Colts along her arm.

INT. OUTSIDE WINDOWS -- SAME TIME

The boys snap to a stop and swing in, toward the building.    With

their free hand they each pull a .50 cal.

INT. LUXURY APARTMENT -- MOMENTS LATER

The Country Western music goes hard core!

SLO-MO: Two bullet holes pierce the windows behind Eunice as she

levels her Colts. The mammoth panes shatter but stay in the frame.

SLO-MO: All gangsters bolt upright as their plasma screen explodes

with the boys' rounds. Some pull weapons.

INT. HALL -- SAME TIME

Romeo pulls his .45's and takes out the guard.   He kicks in the door

and rushes in...

INT. LUXURY APARTMENT -- MOMENTS LATER

SLO-MO: The brothers smash through the glass.    They fire as they

swing over Eunice's head.

SLO-MO: Eunice leaps onto the table as the boys cut their ropes in

mid air with the Rambo knives. The brothers land on their knees.

Their momentum carries them, sliding on either side of the table.

SLO-MO: Eunice runs along the table top, crushing food and keeping

pace with the boys as all three let the led out.

SLO-MO:   The gangsters and button men return fire in chaos.

SLO-MO: Gangsters are torn up as they are blown over furniture,

into walls. Romeo blasts. Slow motion gun battle.

SLO-MO: Yakavetta runs toward his panic room. At the last second,

Jimmy the Gofer hip-checks him and dives in. The door slides shut.

For a few moments the gun battle rages around Eunice who stands in

the center rapid firing at the gangsters.

Soon it is over. The brothers slam Concezio to his knees and level

to the back of his head. As he begs for his life...

Romeo watches in awe.

Boom.   Concezio drops.   Romeo's been waiting, guns up and...

The brothers turn to each other.

Eunice whistles in sympathy as she lifts her brim with a Colt.

Everything freezes in place.     Eunice shuffles over to Romeo.

Romeo snaps his head toward the entry with inspiration in his eyes.

QUICK CUT: He breaks down the door. QUICK CUT: The brothers shoot

Yakavetta. QUICK CUT: Romeo, guns up and once more with feeling...

The brothers look at Romeo, then to each other.

WHIP PAN...

INT. BACK TO PRESENT, LUXURY APARTMENT -- LATER

Eunice stands before the panic room door.   She is totally

disheveled. She swipes her hair back.

Everyone stands in shock, Kuntsler, his G-men, the detectives even

crime scene workers. Greenly whispers to Duffy...

Suddenly, the panic room door slides open and Jimmy yanks Eunice

inside. The door shuts. Everyone rushes toward.

Duffy bangs on the door.

Greenly slams the talk button.

Greenly wheels around, facing Kuntsler.

INT. PANIC ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Eunice has Jimmy pinned face down to the couch, arm twisted behind.

Eunice lets him go and stands.   Jimmy sits up.

Jimmy looks scared.

EXT. LUXURY APARTMENT -- MOMENTS LATER

Panic room door opens and Eunice emerges with Jimmy in tow.

Jimmy is cuffed by two uniforms.

She walks out and the detectives follow.

EXT. PRUDENTIAL BUILDING, GROUND PLAZA -- NIGHT

There are coroner vans and moderate police activity here as Eunice

talks with the detectives who all seem perplexed.

EXT. ALLEY ACROSS FROM PLAZA -- SAME TIME

Crew Cut watches Eunice and the detectives from the dark alley.    He

has shaved his head bald, giving him a sinister look.

INT. MCGINTY'S -- LATER

The place is empty except for Connor and Murphy having a celebratory

shot at the bar and cleaning their weapons.

They chuckle as a loud knocking is heard.   As Doc peeps through the

spy hole and unchains the front doors...

He lets Greenly in and locks it behind him. Greenly takes a few

steps in, stops and grabs his crotch with both hands.

As the boys guffaw, BOOM! A shotgun blast through the door sends

Greenly to the floor with a gaping wound in his back.

Crew Cut bursts in with a smoking pig nose shotgun hanging from a

shoulder strap. He pulls two Sigs and rapid fires at the brothers.

The boys jump over the bar frantically try to reassemble their

weapons. Connor and Murphy check their clips.

Connor racks his .50 cal and looks in the chamber.

They see a shotgun behind the bar. Murphy grabs it.   Just as they

are about to stand, they hear Doc cry out.

They stand and level. Crew Cut has Doc from behind, .9mm to his

temple. Thick accent...

The boys do not flinch. Crew Cut pushes his gun into Doc's temple

hard. He cries out in pain.

The boys toss their guns over the bar. Crew Cut levels toward them,

holding Doc in place. He whispers in Doc's ear.

He cocks back his hammer. A silence POP! rings out from the

shadows. Crew Cut's hand is hit. He drops, crying out in pain.

SLO-MO: Poppa M emerges from the shadows and moves to Crew Cut with

a smoking, silenced Walther pistol in hand.

The brothers have just a moment of shock before Greenly chokes up

some blood. They jump the bar and rush to him.

As they hold Greenly and beg him to hold on, we move to Poppa M

standing over Crew Cut. Crew Cut looks up at him in awe.

Poppa M pulls two .38 revolvers. He snaps the rotary chambers out,

puts one bullet in each gun, spins the chambers and snaps them shut.

He holds them out to Crew Cut. The boys weep, oblivious to this.

Greenly struggles to speak.

He seizes violently and dies. The brothers are in anguish. Crew

Cut picks a .38 and stands. He and Poppa M level to each other's

foreheads. Crew Cut is excited. Poppa M is calm, tranquil. The

brothers bolt up in shock.

The boys watch in horror, trying to figure it out. Poppa M motions

for his opponent to go first. Crew Cut cocks his hammer back with a

"click." The brother's eyes go wide.

Crew Cut pulls the trigger, "click!"

Connor rushes over and grabs up the shotgun.

He cocks it and levels to Crew Cut's head.

Connor stops.   Poppa M holds out his free hand.   Halt.

Connor lowers the gun.    Poppa M pulls back the hammer, "click."

Crew Cut is unsure of himself. He thinks. Shakes his head.       The

brothers focus on Poppa M's gun as he tenses on the trigger.

Crew Cut clenches up, bracing for impact. Poppa M pulls, "click."

The brothers drop to their knees and pray hard. Crew Cut recovers.

He smiles, pulls back the hammer. In Italian...

"Click!"   Crew Cut's eyes widen in fear.

The brothers pray faster as Crew Cut thinks in horror.

BOOM!   Crew Cut falls dead.

INT. UNCLE CESAR'S HOUSE, KITCHEN -- LATER

The boys sit at the kitchen table with Poppa M.      Romeo is propped up

on a counter, nearby. Cesar sets out coffee.

Cesar takes Romeo and leaves, giving them some privacy.

Poppa M strokes the faded "butterfly" tattoo on the back of his

hand. Presently...

INT. FLASHBACK, COBBLER SHOP -- DAY

Italian THUGS #1-4 talk to JACOB MacManus (43yrs). In these

flashbacks we will refer to young Poppa M as "Noah." NOAH (16)

works in back but watches.

Noah stands shaking as he watches his father beat to death. We fade

into later as he holds his father's body, wailing. An Italian kid

with a leg brace, LOUIE (18yrs), staggers in and hobbles to Noah.

EXT. FUNERAL -- MORNING

Noah, Louie and a priest are the only ones present at this modest

affair. Louie weeps. Noah is emotionless.

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Noah holds a knife to Thug #1's throat at a card table. He has THUG

#2's head pinned to the table top with a .38 cal. Nearby, Louie

holds a large .44 magnum with shaking hands. Seated Thugs #3 and #4

hands raised, are scared as they look at Noah's dead eyes.

Noah shoots Thug #2 then cuts Thug #1's throat. The other Mafiosi

scream in horror. Louie kneels and weeps. Noah shoots Thug #3 in

the heart and calmly takes aim at Thug #4. He shoots him in the

throat and he is blown to the floor, grasping his bleeding neck.

Noah rounds the table and takes aim. The man is choking on his own

blood. Noah slowly lowers his gun and just watches.

INT. COBBLER SHOP -- AFTERNOON

Louie works on a pair of shoes.   They are both a bit older.

MAFIOSO #1 and #2 talk to the stoic Noah.

No response from Noah.   Dead eyes.

We see Louie peeking through the curtains.

He smacks Noah across the face.

EXT. WOODS -- NIGHT

Noah and Louie bury the bodies of Mafioso #1 and #2.      Louie stops

and rests. He watches Noah and thinks.

INT. COBBLER SHOP -- DAY

"CLOSED" sign in the door.   Noah and Louie eat sandwiches.

Noah puts down his sandwich. Louie talks to Noah with passion,

m.o.s. and he listens while nodding his head.

Over dialogue and music we see the following images...

Noah cuts out a chalk sketch on a large sheet of shoe leather.

Louie helps Noah make a "serious looking" leather vest.

Louie hobbles in with a sack.   He dumps a bevy of handguns on a

table. All different makes.

Louie draws a map on a note pad and speaks m.o.s.

Holsters and bullet belts are sewn into the vest.

Noah loads the vest with guns as Louie tightens the buckles, stands

back and looks Noah over. Ominous.

A mob boss and two body guards wait for an elevator. The doors

open. Insides is Noah, dark jacket, English Mac (hat). He opens

his coat, revealing the vest. He draws two weapons, executes them

all and calmly hits a button. The doors close.

We do a montage of Noah killing Mafiosi in many different ways.

EXT. BACK TO PRESENT, KITCHEN -- LATER

We pan to the gaping mouthed brothers.

INT. FLASHBACK, PRISON PHONE VISITING AREA -- NIGHT

A picture of a woman with two babies is slammed to the glass.

EXT. BACK TO PRESENT, KITCHEN -- MOMENTS LATER

Connor and Murphy hang their heads.      Connor looks up.

The boys look at each other.

EXT. SIDE WALK OUTSIDE MCGINTY'S -- SAME TIME

Greenly's bagged body is about to be loaded into an ambulance.

Eunice stops the EMTs, unzips it and touches his face. She weeps

and then crushes into Dolly's chest.

He holds her and cries too as Duffy watches in anguish. Eunice's

cell rings. She ignores it and Dolly pulls it from her pocket and

tosses it to Duffy, never letting go of Eunice.

Alternating coverage.

Connor hands the phone to Poppa M.      DISSOLVE TO...

INT. POLICE STATION -- LATER

Eyes still red from crying, Eunice covertly works at a computer.

She types. Soon a picture of the Roman comes on up. Eunice looks

at his face with trepidation and then...

INT. ILLEGAL BOOK -- LATER

CLOSE ON:   An old time phone being carried to a rear table.

We drift by a poker game and young Italian thugs, betting horses and

sports. T.V.s and smoke are abundant.

The phone is set on a back table. PATRONAZZI (75yrs), an ancient

Italian man drinking espresso picks up.

It's the Old Man.    In Italian, alternating coverage...

Patronazzi looks up.    Slowly, many of the young thugs turn.

INT. UNCLE CESAR'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

The boys slumber. We push in on their staggered profiles.       They

simultaneously take a deep breath. FLASH TO WHITE...

INT. DREAM SEQUENCE, FENWAY PARK -- DAY

The boys stand in a huge cement access corridor of Fenway Park.        It

is empty and quiet as a church. A man walks toward them. They

struggle to see. Presently, we reveal ROCCO. He passes them.

The brothers follow him.    Red Sox emblems are abundant.

They emerge into the stands.    Perfect baseball field, empty park.

Rocco walks on.   The boys follow.

EXT. BASEBALL DIAMOND -- MOMENTS LATER

The boys stand on the mound.   Rocco walks a circle around it.

The boys drop their heads.

The brothers have a pained expression.

Rocco looks to his left and right.   Secretly.

The boys look to each other.   Eyes wide.

Rocco smiles.

A roaring cheer arises, shaking the very foundations of the arena.

The boys turn in awe. The stands are still empty.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- LATER

They jolt awake and look to each other.

EXT. BOSTON COMMONS, JOGGING TUNNEL -- MORNING

Poppa M stands before Eunice.   She hands him an envelope.

She looks at him as her eyes well up with tears.

She is overcome and weeps.   Poppa M holds her.

INT. FBI HEAD QUARTERS, BOSTON BRANCH, KITCHENETTE -- LATER

Kuntsler pours a coffee. G-man #2 comes in holding a piece of paper.

INT. TRINITY CHURCH -- LATER

Poppa M, the brothers and Romeo walk kneel at the altar before a

memorial to McKinney: Candles, pictures, cards, flowers etc.

As they pray, a dozen or so church patrons who are in the pews begin

to realize who they are. Our foursome stands and walks back down

the aisle. They make eye contact with a few people.

When the Saints are gone, the churchgoers gather in the aisle and

stare at the front door in disbelief. Excited whisperings. One guy

opens his cell phone. Then he thinks...and closes it.

INT. FBI HEAD QUARTERS -- MOMENTS LATER

G-man #2 excitedly gives Kuntsler a file.   His eyes widen.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER

Kuntsler slaps the file down in front of Jimmy who is cuffed to a

metal table. He looks at a picture of the Roman. Fear.

INT. SUV -- MOMENTS LATER

Kuntsler and his men speed along sirens blaring.    Into walkie...

INT. DEAD END STREET -- SAME TIME

The Roman's common, two story home looms in the b.g. at the end of a

cul-de-sac. Walking down the middle of the street, is Poppa M:

black trench, hat, dark shades. He opens the door and enters the...

INT. COMMON HOME -- CONTINUOUS

Poppa M listens, far off scratchy music. He moves quietly through

the house, stopping at the foot of the stairs...listens. He removes

his rosary, hangs it on the banister and moves on, pulling a weapon.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- SAME TIME

The Roman, swirls a tomato in a plate of salt and bites into it.

Beside him, a horned phonograph plays 40's Jazz. Behind him, we see

that the greenhouse is merely an extension of the home.

The Roman sits in front of a sunken fire pit at a low flame. Across

the pit, an empty chair. Extended before him is a stunning garden,

standing in stark contrast to the common house: vines, flowers,

cobblestone walks, fountains. The center piece is a Turkish pool

with pure white Lillys afloat.

Poppa M slowly approaches the Roman from behind. He holsters his

weapon and sits. The Roman halts the phonograph.

Long pause.

The Roman smiles and gestures the surroundings.

The Roman flicks a photo over. It lands in Poppa M's lap.    It is

the picture we saw earlier. A woman holding two babies.

Poppa M looks at the photo deeply.

EXT. BEHIND GREENHOUSE -- SAME TIME

Outside, back wall of greenhouse.    THUGs 1-5 from Patronazzi, hunker

down here. They are all armed.

INT. PARLOR, UPSTAIRS -- SAME TIME

We look out the bay windows. It is a straight shot down the slanted

roof to the roof of the greenhouse. THUGS 6-8 stand quietly inside.

INT. HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

A gloved hand grabs up Poppa M's rosary.    Connor pockets it as he

and Murphy silently climb the stairs.

INT. / EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS -- SAME TIME

S.W.A.T. teams load into vans.   Squad cars speed through traffic.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Poppa M tosses the picture into the fire.

The Roman denotes his garden.

Poppa M looks around.

INT. SUV -- MOMENTS LATER

Kuntsler barks into a walkie...

He suddenly looks out his window to the sky.    In the distance, two

other copters fly in the same direction.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

The Roman puts the needle back on the record.    Jazz plays.

INT. PARLOR, UPSTAIRS -- SAME TIME

Another Thug opens the bay windows.    Thundering music!

INT. NEIGHBORING ROOM -- SAME TIME

BIRD'S EYE VIEW: Looking down on Connor and Murphy.    They rapid

fire their huge .50 cals through the wall.

INT. PARLOR -- SAME TIME

SLO-MO: The heavy rounds blast through the wall and massacre the

three Thugs as they are about to exit.

INT. BACK OF GREENHOUSE -- SAME TIME

All following visuals in slo-mo with slamming music...

Poppa "M" stands, throwing open his trench and revealing his leather

vest, a six gun rig in the front. The Roman in awe.

The double doors crash in and men barrel through as Poppa M turns,

pulls two weapons and fires upon them, hitting one.

The boys crash through the glass ceiling of the greenhouse on either

side of Poppa M. They fire as they fall, hit the ground and roll.

Romeo bursts into the fray from inside the house, blasting away with

his gold .45's, a shotgun hanging on his back.

The garden is being torn apart as the brothers, Poppa M and Romeo

hit their marks and the hit squad returns fire. The boys dive

behind fountains which are then pulverized.

The gun battle rages around the Roman who remains seated in the very

mouth of madness. His heart breaks as his sanctuary is shredded.

Romeo fires as a large rack of wine behind him is torn apart.

Murphy fires over a statue and bodies crash into the pool.

Connor stands, firing in a Jesus Christ pose.

Poppa M drops his empty weapons and pulls two more, laying down a

second barrage.

Romeo is simultaneously hit in the leg and shoulder. He falls,

dropping his .45s. He struggles to fire the shotgun.

Poppa M takes one in the chest.

Connor is wounded in the shoulder but continues firing.

Murphy is hit in the leg but continues firing.

The boys and Romeo manage to take out the last of the Thugs, who are

blasted into the Turkish pool. It is over. The music fades...

EXT. FRONT OF HOME -- MOMENTS LATER

Squad cars screech to a halt as the chopper lands behind them.

Kuntsler exits, shouting orders. Many officers level over their

hoods as S.W.A.T. piles out and moves toward.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

The Roman looks around, tears in his eyes.   The boys hobble to their

failing father who is on his knees.

They get him to his feet. Poppa M turns to the Roman. He levels a

revolver toward the seated man. With his last bit of strength...

Poppa M fires one right between the Roman's eyes.    Poppa M crumbles.

His sons lay him down.

Poppa M smiles as he looks up at the sun through the blown out glass

ceiling. A plume of butterflies escape.

He dies. The brothers weep. Nearby, Romeo is slumped and bleeding,

on the edge of consciousness. A strange calm comes over the

brothers as they stand and look to one another.

S.W.A.T. can be heard surrounding the perimeter. The boys look to

Romeo. He smiles at them and nods. The brothers turn and walk into

the house. The echoed voice of Poppa M.

EXT. STREET -- MOMENTS LATER

Cops level over their squads.      Media descends.

INT. HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

SLO-MO:   the boys move toward the front door.

INT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS -- SAME TIME

We cut to people around the country glued to their t.v.s      Crowds

hush in bars, airports, stores.

EXT. FRONT OF HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

The door opens and the boys walk out, guns down.

INT. GREENHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Romeo raises a weak hand as S.W.A.T. moves cautiously through a

battle field of dead bodies.

EXT. FRONT LAWN -- MOMENTS LATER

SLO-MO: The boys stop in the middle of the lawn and look out over

the massive presence. A policeman yells in his bullhorn, m.o.s.

SLO-MO, CLOSE ON:    The brothers' guns fall to the grass.

SLO-MO:    The brothers drop to their knees.

SLO-MO:    The brothers put their hands behind their heads.

DIP TO BLACK.    The music fades...

SUBTEXT:    "Seven days Later"

INT. / EXT. NEWS FOOTAGE

STATIC!    CHANNEL CHANGE!

Crowds flood a cemetery.    Poppa M's casket is lowered...

STATIC!   CHANNEL CHANGE!

News desk.    Insert of Romeo.

STATIC!   CHANNEL CHANGE!

Outside Eunice's home.

STATIC!   CHANNEL CHANGE!

New footage of the aftermath at the Roman's home.

STATIC!   CHANNEL CHANGE!

A mob of protesters chant, "Set them free."

INT. T.V. TALK SHOW, "BOSTON BANTER" -- DAY

Five guests, BALLPLAYER, COMEDIAN, ACTOR, POLITICIAN and a HOST are

seated in the midst of an "audience in the round." The format is

similar to "Politically Incorrect."

Arguments erupt.

INT. PRISON HOSPITAL -- DAY

The arguments are heard as the boys awaken in their hospital beds at

the same moment.

They are bandaged and hooked to machinery.

The boys turn and look out the windows at a group of cons in the

yard, staring up at them.

Connor and Murphy's faces split with evil grins.   They mimic guns at

the cons and gesture as if shooting them.

FADE TO BLACK...

