INT.  GOTHIC CHURCH  10:00 A.M.  ST. PATRICK'S DAY

DOWNTOWN BOSTON

As we open we see the inside of an enormous church. A young

looking PRIEST in his mid-thirties is finishing the delivery

of the Lords Prayer. In the back of the church, in the last

pew, there are two who kneel on the cold, stone floor.

They do not stand to sing, nor do they offer signs of peace

when told, but they pray. They grip and rub their rosaries.

They mutter their words in Latin.

CONNOR and MURPHY MacMANUS (mid-twenties) are shrouded in

thick waist length navy P-coats, worn leather boots and the

hungry clothes of the poor. The boys heads are shaved and

they have facial hair.

Macklepenny takes his seat on the alter along side the regular

priests of the church. The MacManus brothers suddenly stand,

as all others remain seated. Each church goer between them

and the aisle shifts his/her position to allow the boys

passage, as if on command. The two turn and begin to stride

for the alter, eyes down, determined.

The MacManus brothers are fraternal twins. As Annabelle

MacManus speaks, Macklepenny is taken aback as he scans the

congregation amazed to find that he is the only one who thinks

this out of the ordinary.

The monsignor begins his sermon. Macklepenny rises to stop

the boys from this disgraceful disturbance.

The elder clergyman finds Macklepenny's arm, keeping him

seated while shaking his head. Macklepenny's confusion gives

way to awe as he watches the brothers step onto the altar,

brush by the six seated priests, and approach the enormous

crucifix.

They both fall to their knees and kiss the feet of Christ.

They rise and as abruptly as they came, they turn and head

back down the aisle for the front door. They stop at the

rear of the church, turning to listen to the sermon.

The MacManuses turn and walk out the door.

EXT. CHURCH STEPS  SUNNY MORNING

The boys put on their dark glasses and pause at the top of

the steps to light up their cigarettes. They both roll their

cigarette butts along their tongues and screw them into their

lips. In this unique way they light up, seemingly oblivious

to their synchronicity and mimic.

They leave.

INT. NOLAND'S MEAT PACKING PLANT  4:00 P.M.  SAME DAY

Murphy, wearing a white blood soaked smock and apron stands

around the corner of the entrance to the loading dock. He

grips a gigantic, bloody slab of meat and smirks. Connor

flips his cigarette out the loading dock and passes his

brother's hiding place. He notices the workers have stopped,

and are looking at him.

Murphy slaps Connor square in the face with the bloody slab.

Connor's face is caked with blood as he stands stunned. He

then leaps on Murphy, sending him into a pile of nearby

hamburger. He grabs a large cow tongue from a nearby heap

and begins slapping Murphy in the face with it as they both

laugh and the workers cheer.

Their boss, McGERKIN approaches with a very large woman.

Her head is clean-shaven. The two are still laughing, out of

breath, they turn.

She points to a tattoo on her neck that reads untouched by

man.

Connor exits with Roz.

Murphy laughs as he jogs away.

INT. NOLAND'S MEAT PACKING PLANT  CUT STATION  SAME DAY

Rozengurtle and Connor stand in front of a bunch of co-workers

who are cutting meat as it goes by on assembly.

Connor holds up his thumb and stares at it.

She returns an icy stare. He hands her the knife. The co-

workers all seem wary of Roz.

Murphy stands on one side of Roz, Connor on the other,

surrounded by a tight group of workers. Everyone is within

ear shot of one another, cutting meat as it goes by. Knowing

glances are shared by everyone. It is an uncomfortable mood.

Everyone burst out laughing. Rozengurtle jabs a knife in a

piece of meat and turns to Connor. She pushes him and starts

walking toward him. He starts backing up, laughing.

Employees gather around all the excitement.

She reaches back and punches Connor full force in the face.

He takes the hit very well. He stops backing up.

She suddenly drives her boot into his crotch, sending him to

the floor reeling with pain. Two female co-workers leap to

his aid.

Rozengurtle begins to turn, raising her fist to Murphy.

Murphy winds up and punches her square in the face. She lands

on her back. The on-lookers are stunned as he walks over and

stands above her.

INT. HALLWAY  MACMANUS' TENEMENT APT  BUILDING  DAY

The brothers get to the top of the stairs. Connor is hunched

over and moving slowly. Murphy giggles.

Connor flicks his cigarette butt out the large open loading

doors at the end of the hall. The red brick buildings stretch

down the alley both ways. The glowing butt falls to a filthy

resting place, directly next to a dented green dumpster with

half the paint job scraped off.

INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APARTMENT  EARLY EVENING

This is a decrepit, illegal loft. The boys enter, hang their

rosaries by the door and begin taking off their clothes.

Connor sits naked on the couch and gently places a bag of

ice on his crotch. Murphy stands naked in the open quantity

shower. Murphy turns on the water and sticks his hand in the

stream.

INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APT  EARLY EVENING

Connor, still seated, cracks open a Guinness and sips it

lovingly. The phone rings.

Something is obviously wrong in her voice.

Murphy shuts off the water.

Murphy sees the concern in Connor's eyes and takes a step

closer.

Murphy is drawing closer with concern.

INT. ANNABELLE MACMANUS' HOUSE  IRELAND  NIGHT

A wrinkly female hand grabs a large revolver resting next to

a half empty bottle of Hennessey.

INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APT  EARLY EVENING

Connor and Murphy are both screaming in panic.

EXT. ANNABELLE MACMANUS' BACK STOOP  NIGHT

Mom stands on the back stoop holding the door ajar with her

hip. She holds the phone receiver up in her left hand and

the gun directly next to it, in her right. She squeezes off

a loud shot toward the heavens.

INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APT  EARLY EVENING

As soon as the deafening sound pierces through the receiver,

Connor instinctively jumps up to a standing position. The

bag of ice bursts as it hits the floor and spreads across

it. He throws the receiver and covers his ears with both

hands.

The phone then falls to the ground, skipping through the

cubes as the boys dive for it screaming. The two naked,

hysterical boys fumble for the phone, flailing on their

stomachs in the field of ice. They finally catch it and both

put their ears to the receiver in panic. As they scream MA

intermittently, the pauses get longer and longer.

INT. ANNABELLE MACMANUS' APARTMENT  NIGHT

Mom's got her hand covering her mouth, face red from holding

back laughter, as she walks back into the house. She can

take it no longer and she bursts out with hearty guffaws.

INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APARTMENT  EARLY EVENING

The boys are relieved, but angry.

Murphy holds the receiver in the air. Mom's still laughing.

They both put an ear to the phone.

Mom pauses and cackles endlessly once again.

They all laugh.

Mom laughs.

The boys laugh.

The boys stand shoulder to shoulder, naked. They peer into

the distance, ears to the phone, awaiting this most important

information.

Slight pause as mom slams a shot of Hennessey.

Mom slams down the phone and lets out a throaty laugh. The

boys sign angrily. Connor walks over and hangs up the phone.

When he turns, he notices Murphy is fixated on his brothers

crotch. A triumphant smile spreads across his face.

EXT. AN ALLEY  MORNING

PAUL SMECKER, F.B.I. agent, is lead by the Boston Chief of

Police through a jungle of ravenous reporters, police lines

and uniformed officers. He is impeccably dressed in a deep

red suit. He is smiling, confident as he walks. He is a very

good-looking, slender man.

He looks intently, for a moment, at four uniformed officers.

They approach two dead bodies, laying next to a dented green

dumpster with half the paint job scraped off.

One man, IVAN CHECKOV, lays on his stomach, closer to the

dumpster than the other. The ass of his pants has been burnt

out and a large cotton bandage is in its place.

The other, VLADDY, has a blood soaked bandage around his

head and is on his stomach as well. There are hundreds of

pieces of porcelain of various sizes everywhere. Three plain-

clothed homicide detectives, DUFFY, DOLLY and GREENLY hover

close to the bodies. Dolly and Duffy listen to GREENLY, an

obvious rookie, give his over-confident theory of what took

place.

The chief is about to interrupt them, but Smecker holds him

back with a smile. The two wait and watch in a position,

where the unsuspecting detectives have their backs to them.

Smecker listens.

The Chief is embarrassed.

Greenly points out a large foot print on Vladdy's back.

Some detectives nod in agreement. Smecker chuckles as he

shakes his head.

Smecker saunters up to Greely and pulls his I.D. out of the

breast pocket of his sport coat and lets it hang. The large,

light blue letters, F.B.I. can be easily seen.

All the detectives seem disgruntled and look to the Chief

for an explanation.

Greenly looks helplessly to the Chief, who simply nods. He

storms off the scene, upset. Smecker turns his back on

everyone and puts earphones in. He reaches down and hits

play. The choir song "Agnus dei" overtakes. He begins to

investigate. He kneels at the bodies for a moment then stares

at the opposite brick wall. He picks up a piece of porcelain

and scrapes it with his thumb.

He quickly cocks his head toward the sky and begins to chuckle

as he says Jesus Christ, under his breath. He brushes some

paraffin on each of the dead men's hands. Duffy and Dolly

watch defiantly. They start to smile at one another as they

collectively realize his homosexuality. He is slightly

effeminate buy not overly fey.

Two uniformed officers approach.

Mitchell and Langley exit.

Two more uniforms approach.

The two begin their tasks. Chaffey finds a casing near

Checkov's hand, hidden under the edge of the pile.

The homicide detectives are surprised as Chaffey looks for

the second shell. Smecker lights up a smoke.

He points to a bullet hole in the opposing and tattered wall.

He points to another bullet hole at the dumpster's base.

Smecker turns to detectives with a smirk.

They both nod.

Mitchell returns.

INT. MACMANUS' APT. BUILDING  FIRST FLOOR  MORNING

The detectives pile into the elevator, Smecker last. Greenly

has rejoined them. Smecker sips his latte.

All the detectives chant the affirmative. The doors close.

INT. MACMANUS' APT. BUILDING  ELEVATOR  FIFTH FLOOR  MORNING

As the doors open, all the detectives chorus their disbelief.

Smecker turns to Greenly in disbelief.

Smecker exits the elevator leaving the three silent detectives

with that thought.

The detectives exit the elevator.

INT. MACMANUS' DOORWAY  INSIDE APT  LOOKING OUT TO HALL

MORNING

Smecker appears first, glancing in momentarily. The detectives

pile in behind him. They survey the situation in total awe.

EXT. MACMANUS' APT. BUILDING  FRONT STEPS  MORNING

Smecker saunters out, detectives on his heels.

Duffy starts walking down the street. A REPORTER is hot on

his heels.

Smecker is standing on the front steps in front of uniformed

officers and homicide detectives.

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM  DAY

A potent song takes our ears as The MacManus brothers sit in

the E.R. They have already received care. Their faces are

beaten and there are bandages and dried blood in various

spots. Connor's injuries exceed Murphy's. They are both clad

in only their leather boots, boxer shorts and worn out old

bathrobes.

Young kids wait for medical attention, as their knife wounds

bleed. Two nuns in the corner console a third, whose robes

are ripped and face is beaten. A woman toward the end of the

hall is so badly beaten she is unrecognizable.

As the song builds to a more harrowing chorus, a man enters.

His clothes suggest he's a pimp. He is not injured. He looks

around as he stands, perturbed, at the end of the hall.

He reaches over and grabs the beat up woman by the hair and

begins to drag her out. She is kicking and screaming from

the floor, grabbing at his wrists as he hauls her away.

(Slo-mo) The boys, instantly furious, stand and begin to go

toward the action, but Connor's legs give out on him and he

falls to the floor. Connor, still trying to go after the

pimp, crawls towards him. Murphy helps his brother to his

chair and hold him tight.

Music fades.

INT  EMERGENCY ROOM  DAY  FEW MINUTES LATER

An old Irishman enters the E.R. DOC (70 yrs.) has a serious

facial twitch and is prone to blinking uncontrollably. He

has a mild stutter. He also has Tourette's Syndrome and is

apt to yell his two chosen swear words every now and then,

first fuck! and after a slight pause, ass! He rushes up as

they stand to greet him. Murphy holds Connor up.

He hands them a card with Smecker's name on it. They survey

it with interest.

Everyone in the E.R. looks at Doc in shock. Connor and Murphy

don't even avert their eyes from the card.

The boys look puzzled. Murphy helps Connor down to his seat.

Murphy hands Doc a partially filled garbage bag.

Doc exits, say one more "Fuck,...Ass", on the way out.

INT. BOSTON POLICE STATION  PRECINCT OFFICE  DAY

The station is abuzz with the story. Connor and Murphy's

names are on all tongues. A legend starts. Every available

officer is in the room along with the homicide detectives.

Smecker walks right down the middle.

Smecker looks to Greenly. Dripping with sarcasm.

Some of the cops and homicide detectives laugh and chide

Greenly.

EXT. BOSTON POLICE STATION STEPS  DAY

The two are limping up the precinct stairs. Connor is draped

over Murphy who helps his brother along, they are still

attired as in the E.R.

INT. BOSTON POLICE STATION  PRECINCT OFFICE  DAY

Grunt police work is going to bring this one in.

The brothers quietly enter in the back of the room. All the

officers are seated with their backs to them. Smecker and

the brothers make eye contact. He knows who they are. They

don't interrupt Greenly.

There is light chuckling from the police at this crack.

Everyone turns and looks.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM  BOSTON POLICE STATION  LATER

The boys sit in two chairs at a plain table with a recording

device on it. They are very serious and alert. Mitchell enters

with coffee for them. He shakes their hands and says he really

respects what they did. Surprised, they thank him. Chaffey

enters with donuts and a repeat performance of respect. Slowly

officers start to gather around the interrogation room door.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM  BOSTON POLICE STATION  DAY LATER

There are at least 20 officers and detectives packed in the

tiny room. The MacManus' visit with the excited cops. All

are in high spirits.

The room is loud as Smecker walks in.

They all file out. Smecker and the boys look each other over.

Smecker reaches for the record button. Murphy puts out his

hand to stop him.

Murphy turns to his brother and speaks in Latin, in hushed

tones. It is subtitled in English.

Smecker in intrigued with this tiny display. He hits the

record button.

They look at each other.

FLASHBACK. INT  MCGINTY'S PUB  NIGHT  ST. PATRICK'S DAY

McGinty's's is packed to the walls with drunken Irish. A lot

of faces are recognizable from Noland's Meat. Connor is in

front of the bar. He and Doc are staring at each other as if

waiting for one man to give in. Connor has his arms across

the chests of Murphy and some friends, holding them in place.

They are interested in the competition.

PRESENTLY...

Everyone falls down laughing. Doc is angry and starts throwing

ice at them. DAVID DELLA ROCCO makes his way through the

crowd. Rocco is thirty-two years old. He has shoulder-length,

dark hair and a full beard and mustache that wrap around his

big smile. He charges up to the bar and yells to Doc.

This sends everyone even further into laughter. Doc throws

two huge fists full of ice at him. He backs away laughing.

The boys get up off the floor and have a huge group hug with

Rocco as they all scream each others names.

They all laugh and commence drinking.

INT. MCGINTY'S PUB  NIGHT

The bar is trashed. It's mostly empty now except for the

brothers, Rocco, Doc and four friends. Everyone is very drunk,

including Doc.

Connor pauses then bursts out laughing. Doc calls everyone

to gather round.

Long pause as everyone absorbs. They are upset.

He is cut off by everyone who obviously opposes Mafia

involvement.

Everyone has quizzical looks on their faces.

Everyone chuckles.

Everyone laughs heartily. Just then, three large Russians in

suits enter. The obvious leader, CHECKOV, stands in front

with VLADDY behind one of Checkov's shoulders, with another

guy behind the other shoulder. They mean business. The

laughter fades.

Everyone laughs. Ivan is angry.

The locals roll their eyes at Doc's blunder.

He and Murphy each grab a Guinness and a shot of Hennessey

and they approach the Russians with the peace offering.

Checkov slaps the beer to the floor.

The boys look at each other, remembering what Mom said.

They still hold the shots.

Rocco pushes off the bar. He's had enough.

Wham! Ivan punches him in the face. He is quickly down and

out. Connor and Murphy's faces turn to stone as they speak

the next few lines in flawless fluent Russian with English

subtitles.

Checkov is completely taken aback. All the Irish are fairly

impressed as well.

They clink the glasses together, throw back the Hennessey,

ball up the thick glasses in their fists, drop to one knee

and both deliver a devastating blow to each of Checkov's

quads. Murphy on the left, Connor on the right. He's down

for the count, writhing on the floor.

The boy's each take a Russian guy and start fighting as the

others start kicking and spitting on Checkov. This is a bar

brawl, lots of punches don't connect. Connor dismantles his

man quickly. Murphy is still fighting as all the Irish try

to jump in and help Murphy but Connor goes into psycho mode,

pushing them all back.

They all back off and start to cheer him on. Murphy and Vladdy

are ripping each other apart. Vladdy backs him against a

wall and pulls back, exhausted, for one good punch. Murphy

reaches up behind his head with both hands and pulls two

bottles of wine from a wall rack. He swings them toward each

other with Vladdy's head as the mid-point. The bottles

haphazardly connect, one on each side of his head. He crumples

to the ground in an explosion of glass and wine.

There is shock and silence.

INT. MCGINTY'S PUB  NIGHT  A FEW MINUTES LATER

They have Ivan Checkov tied down to the bar on his stomach.

Connor stands with an unlit cigarette dangling from his lips

next to Ivan. He pours Hennessey all over Checkov's buttocks.

They all cheer. Ivan's face is battered as Rocco wakes and

approaches. He punches Checkov in the face in complete rage.

Two friends subdue him as all chuckle.

As they cheer, Connor lights up his smoke and tosses the

match on Ivan's butt.

The Hennessey is instantly ablaze and Checkov is screaming

and wiggling in horror. Some just stand there stunned, but

most of the remaining onlookers leap to Ivan's aid. They

furiously pat him out and turn on Connor.

INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APT  EARLY NEXT MORNING

Connor and Murphy, fairly beat up, sit up on their beds.

They wear tattered bathrobes and boxer shorts. They put their

feet down into their leather boots. The boys examine the

extent of one another's injuries and reflect on their

hangovers. They both laugh and grab their heads in pain.

Boom! The door breaks open and in hobbles Checkov and Vladdy,

guns drawn. Checkov is all beat up and the ass of his pants

is burnt out. A bulky bandage covers his buttocks. Vladdy

has a large bandage around his head. The boys stand in

surprise.

Ivan smashes Connor in the forehead with his gun, sending

blood gushing down his face as he falls to the floor. Murphy

helplessly yells his brother's name as he is brought to his

knees by Vladdy. Ivan positions Connor on his knees before

the toilet, which is open to the room. Checkov puts his foot

on Connor's head and proceeds, as he struggles, to hand cuff

him to the old toilet. So now Connor is bleeding and hugging

the commode with his hands cuffed behind the bowl base.

Checkov walks towards the door and says "let's go" to Vladdy.

Vladdy pulls him to his feet and leads him away following

Checkov.

Connor, blood running from his face, listens to absolute

silence for just a moment. Suddenly his face reads the gravity

of the situation. In a split second he turns into an animal.

He's yelling, pulling, tugging and growling.

His body is a whirlwind of motion. The skin on his wrists

bleeds profusely.

EXT. ALLEY  MORNING

Vladdy and Checkov lead Murphy out back into the alley.

Murphy is on his knees next to the dumpster. Checkov has his

gun to the boy's head. He acts like he's going to pull the

trigger, but he stops. Vladdy is standing twenty feet away

with his back to them keeping a look out, gun in hand.

INT. CONNOR AND MURPHY'S APT.  MORNING

Connor becomes so venomous, that he pulls the entire toilet

right out of the floor.

INT. TO EXT.  MACMANUS' TENEMENT  LOADING DOORS  MORNING

(slo-mo) Connor steps out onto the sill of the huge, open

loading doors. He is five stories up. His muscles ripple

with the weight of the toilet. His face is barbaric.

EXT. ALLEY  MORNING

From his kneeling position, Murphy can see his brother perched

50 feet overhead. He does not let his face betray him.

EXT. MACMANUS' TENEMENT  LOADING DOORS  MORNING

(slo-mo) Connor bends his knees and heaves the toilet upward

and swings one arm directly beneath it. He is no longer

tethered around the basin. He holds it at a cocked angle.

The heavy porcelain tank cover slips off the toilet.

He tosses the toilet in a left and outwardly trajectory,

then he jumps off the sill to the right. He is sailing through

the air about twenty feet behind, and to the right of the

toilet, cuffed hands above his head, robe up like a cape

behind him. Murphy screams

EXT. ALLEY  MORNING

(slo-mo) Checkov begins to laugh heartily. The tank top lands

pristinely on a garbage bag just behind Murphy. Ivan's look

turns to one of terror. Bam! He is crushed by the toilet.

Boom! His gun goes off, punching a hole in the dumpster near

the bottom. Vladdy hears the bang and crouches as he turns

to see a wave of tiny porcelain bits.

Connor lands squarely on Vladdy's back. His gun discharges

firing a hole in the brick of the opposing wall. He is

savagely crushed against the ground. Connor bounces off and

hits the wall, landing in the garbage completely unconscious.

Murphy takes his hands from his head. There is dead silence.

He runs to his brother, pulls him from the trash and checks

his vital signs. He seems okay. Vladdy, still alive, slowly

crawls for his gun, inadvertently covering his own bullet

casing. Murphy goes over, picks up the tank cover and clubs

the man to death with two hard and fast blows, then throws

it up and behind him. It lands in the dumpster with a

resonating boom.

Murphy quickly takes everything from the scene; guns, money,

wallets, watches and a pager. He shoves it in a garbage bag

and throws Connor over his shoulder and runs out of the alley.

BACK TO PRESENT. INT. BOSTON POLICE STATION INTERROGATION

ROOM  AFTERNOON

Smecker stares astounded at Connor and Murphy. The boys

examine Smecker for a reaction. He slowly builds to a chuckle.

The brothers join in.

Murphy speaks flawless French with subtitles.

Connor speaks flawless Italian with subtitles.

The brothers laugh. Chaffey enters.

They all chuckle. Chaffey is embarrassed. Smecker stands.

Smecker leaves.

Murphy speaks with the characteristic gay man's lingering

"S".

They laugh.

EXT. BOSTON POLICE STATION  FRONT STEPS  EARLY EVENING

The police chief is standing on the front steps of the police

station making a statement to the ravenous press: cameras

and pushy reporters. Agent Smecker stands slightly behind

him.

Rocco stands amidst the sea of reporters as the chief begins.

The press is ablaze with questions. Smecker turns and walks

down the precinct steps, passing Rocco, who carries a bunch

of folded clothes, and heads for the police station. Smecker

glances in Rocco's direction, barely noticing the man who

has already passed him.

INT. MACMANUS' CELLS  EARLY EVENING

Rocco approaches the wide open cell as Chaffey and Mitchell

play cards with the brothers. Happy to see each other the

boys and Rocco embrace. He hands them their clothes.

INT. MACMANUS' CELL  NIGHT

The boys are in a tight cell with a bed on each side. They

are in their own clothes now. The brothers are fast asleep.

Suddenly, they lurch forward, throwing their chests out,

lips tight, still asleep.

INT. POLICE STATION BATHROOM  NIGHT.

An officer turns on the faucet of a sink and begins to wash

his hands. We go down to the pipes beneath the porcelain

basin. An old leak seeps water through a crack in the floor.

INT. MACMANUS' CELL  NIGHT

A water leak starts on the ceiling. It drips faster and

faster. The water begins to follow a water damaged crack

along the ceiling. It slowly spreads in two directions.

The brothers struggle for air in their sleep. Then slowly,

and at the same time, they each reach up one arm apiece and

simultaneously curl their hands as if grabbing something.

Their straining faces are brought from darkness to light as

they sit up quickly, face to the ceiling.

Their eyes open wide and they each draw their first breath

as drops of the creeping water land on their foreheads.

They look at each other across the room in shock as the drips

of water still fall between them.

INT. MANMANUS' CELL  NEXT MORNING

Murphy and Connor sleep. Murphy awakes to a beep, beep, beep.

He removes Checkov's pager from the pocket of his bathrobe.

INT. PRECINCT OFFICE  MORNING

Connor and Murphy enter as Greenly, Dolly, Duffy, Chaffey

and Mitchell are having coffee and donuts. They greet each

other warmly. Connor grabs a pen and walks to the hallway.

Duffy hands Murphy a jelly donut and a cup of coffee as Dolly

spreads a copy of the Boston Globe in front of Murphy. The

headlines read "The Saints of South Boston." All the

detectives chuckle as Murphy is momentarily absorbed. He

takes the paper.

They laugh.

INT. PRECINCT OFFICE  MORNING

Connor cradles the receiver of a pay phone between his cheek

and shoulder. He pockets the pager. As the phone rings, he

readies his pen. The other end of the line picks up and a

thick Russian accent instantly begins speaking. Connor

responds by speaking a few words in Russian before he realizes

it's a recorded message. He begins writing. He hangs up the

phone and smiles as he lights up a cigarette.

INT. POPPA JOE YAKAVETTA'S OFFICE  DAY. A.K.A. THE JOKE.

Rocco, still sporting a shiner, enters an office. There are

papers everywhere and it is a cluttered mess of telephones,

filing cabinets, lamps and chairs. Rocco clutches a brown

paper bag as if it is made of gold. POPPA JOE YAKAVETTA,

Rocco's boss, is on the phone. He is in his late forties.

He's always comfortably dressed; sleeves rolled up, collar

unbuttoned.

VINCENZO LIPAZZI swaggers across the office to Rocco. He is

in his late thirties. He goes out of his way to look like

Elvis; open shirt, gold chains and medallions. He is

overweight and has a bouffant hairdo, accompanied by Elvis

shades. Vincenzo flips a half dollar in his hand constantly.

Rocco and Vincenzo hate each other. Yakavetta talks on the

phone.

Rocco obeys like an angry child. Vincenzo puts it in front

of Yakavetta. He sits on a filing cabinet and flips his coin.

Vincenzo giggles and whispers as he pokes fun at Rocco.

The two of them resemble kids behind the teacher's back.

Vincenzo's face drops he gets up and starts walking toward

Rocco. Roc points at him from a seated position. He's scared.

Suddenly Yakavetta jumps to a standing position. He yells.

He slams the phone down. Rocco and Vincenzo are shocked but

try to look composed.

As he speaks he unwraps the wax paper in the bag. Rocco looks

over his shoulder. It's a sandwich. He's embarrassed.

Vincenzo smirks at him.

Rocco starts for the door. Vincenzo begins whispering in

Yakavetta's ear.

Vincenzo continues whispering for a few more seconds, long

enough for Rocco to see. Vincenzo's lips are tight. His teeth

grind.

Yakavetta takes a long pause.

There's a long tense pause. Suddenly, Yakavetta throws his

head back and roars with laughter. Vincenzo joins in. Rocco

lets out a semi-audible sign of relief and gradually starts

laughing himself.

Rocco returns to terror. Yakavetta erupts again pointing at

Rocco.

INT  COMMON BOSTON HOME  ANTEROOM  TWILIGHT

Connor and Murphy give a huge Irishman guns, money and gold

watches. He hands them two big black duffle bags and motions

for them to help themselves as he counts the money. They

enter a well equipped arsenal. They are giddy as they go on

their first shopping spree. They toss in masks and gloves.

They toss in four identical black finished 9mm handguns with

silencers.

Connor pulls a large hunting knife from Murphy's bag.

INT. SMECKER'S BEDROOM  NIGHT

Paul Smecker lies in bed with his young lover, Reuben (mid-

twenties). He has an innocent, feminine look and a GQ air

about him. The two have just had sex and Reuben is far more

excited about it than Smecker.

Reuben pants and gestures that it was a wonderful experience.

Smecker watches TV.

Reuben reaches over and affectionately places a hand on

Smecker's chest. Paul tosses it off with indifference.

Reuben has a pouty look. The phone rings.

Reuben throws an arm over Smecker's abdomen and places his

head on Paul's bare chest as if to now force affection.

He is visibly miffed with Reuben's sudden display. He tries

to pull the arm away but Reuben holds tight.

Smecker is annoyed. He slaps Reuben semi-gently once on his

exposed cheek. Reuben closes his eyes and holds even tighter.

He bites his lower lip in anger and smack Reuben again on

the same cheek, hard. Reuben jumps to a sitting position

holding his cheek. He is shocked and hurt.

He hangs up. Immediately to Reuben, semi-angry.

INT. PLAZA HOTEL  HALLWAY  NIGHT  12:30 A.M.

Smecker saunters down the hall, his usual confident smile.

He is impeccably dressed in a brightly colored suit. Greenly

stands directly outside an open door at the hall's end. A

steady flow of detectives and forensics filter in and out.

Smecker halts before Greenly and looks straight into his

eyes.

INT. PLAZA HOTEL  SUITE LIVING ROOM  NIGHT

Smecker and Greenly walk into a large sunken living room

with high ceilings. There is a huge white shaped pit couch

in the center with seven dead bodies draped across it. All

the bodies have been turned so they are either seated or on

their backs and bright new pennies have been place in their

eyes. There is one corpse directly in the middle of the living

room, making eight. This victim (THE FAT MAN) is overweight

and is lying in debris made up of sheet rock and broken wood

which spreads thinly for a five foot radius around him.

The victims' body positions are in a circle with the fat man

as the hub. Smecker is instantly engulfed. The regular

homicide detectives are on hand with their I.D.s hanging out

of their breast pockets. They see Smecker and back off.

Duffy wears an especially loud tie. Smecker lights up a smoke.

He circles around and sees another body behind the couch,

which makes nine. The victim is on his back, with pennies

stuck in his eyes.

Smecker's eyes widen as he turns to Greenly.

Smecker takes a beat. He addresses the detectives.

Smecker surveys the scene.

Smecker tosses the Idiot glance to Dolly.

Smecker looks at his I.D.

The detectives are impressed.

The detectives chuckle.

INT. PLAZA HOTEL  SUITE LIVING ROOM  NIGHT

Smecker is chain smoking. His clothes appear unkempt. His

eyes show emotion at every new found clue. The detectives

watch closely. He is hunched over the body of the fat man

probing his wounds with his gloved fingers. Greenly has re-

entered. He defiantly holds a cup of coffee but is too

intimidated to interrupt Smecker. He sets it down and folds

his arms.

He stands up and gives a lesson to the now eager detectives.

He points his two index fingers to the back of his own skull.

A wide-eyed Duffy joins with Smecker, by nodding his head.

Smecker is seducing all of them.

Greenly and Duffy want to know how.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  SUITE LIVING ROOM  NIGHT  LATER

Smecker is now a complete mess. His hair is totally frazzled.

He is sucking on cigarettes long and hard. His clothes are

completely disheveled.

Smecker points toward the ceiling revealing a huge gaping

hole in it just above the living room.

The detectives nod in agreement. They are now completely

taken in by Smecker's spell.

They go over and grab seats at the bar. Smecker mixes himself

a gin and tonic on the other side. He is calming down now

and going back into cool mode. He starts to tuck his clothes

back in and fix his hair. He leans over the bar and sips his

drink. The three detectives lean in.

All their faces read the gravity of the situation.

INT. ROCCO'S APARTMENT  NIGHT

Rocco comes out of the bathroom. He storms out to his small,

round, living room table at which the boys are seated. He is

wearing a white, polyester shirt with gold trim that is a

uniform of some kind for perhaps a chain of restaurants. It

is unbuttoned all the way down and his white t-shirt is

hanging out. He is wearing a name tag that reads "Jaffar".

He is upset. He slams down a chair across from the brothers

who are sitting there cleaning guns and silencers. All the

accouterments of death are sprawled before them. They are

smoking as they carefully disassemble their firearms.

The boys look at each other.

FLASHBACK EXT.  SIDEWALK  DOWNTOWN BOSTON  NIGHT

The boys are walking across Copley Square. Connor looks at

the note he wrote at the police station. They stand on the

sidewalk and light smokes. They are in their regular garb;

thick naval P-coats, jeans and leather boots. They each carry

a mid-sized, black, duffle bag. They are serious and business-

like. They scan the Plaza Hotel from across the street. The

elite exit and enter the hotel. Connor glances at his pocket

watch. It's 8:45.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  ELEVATOR  NIGHT

They enter. They look ahead, stone-faced, as the elevator

climbs.

The elevator stops at the lobby level. Nine, well-dressed

men enter. Their faces are not shown. The boys move to the

back wall.

One guy says something quickly to another in Russian. The

other gives a one word Russian response. They boys look at

each other. As the elevator climbs, their eyes focus.

The door opens. As the men exit the elevator, each face is

seen individually, all are victims from Smecker's crime scene.

The elevator goes up half a floor. They hit the stop button

and rummage in their bags. They suit up; black gloves and

black masks. They strap on four 9mm. pistols with silencers,

in shoulder holsters, one under each arm. Connor takes a

large coil of black rope and drapes it around himself. He

looks at Murphy and at the rope in his bag. Murphy is too

excited to argue.

He puts it on. They drop to their knees, making the sign of

the cross. Then, up through the ceiling they go.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  ELEVATOR SHAFT  NIGHT

They stand on top of the elevator before a long air shaft.

They jump into the air shaft.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  AIR SHAFT  NIGHT

They start crawling with Connor in front and Murphy behind.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  SUITE  NIGHT

The plump boss is standing in the middle of the sunken living

room.

His eight Russian comrades are around him seated on the U-

shaped pit couch. They speak Russian, but no subtitles are

seen. The fat man yells. He's mad about something.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  AIR SHAFT  NIGHT

Connor is taking lots of random turns, left and right. He is

starting to look a bit confused.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  SUITE  NIGHT

The fat man is really yelling at them now. He is screaming

and pointing at each man.

They seem to be taking it seriously.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  AIR SHAFT  NIGHT

Their brows are drenched with sweat. Murphy crawls up next

to Connor. There is only enough room for the two to lie on

their sides facing each other.

Murphy takes off the rope.

Connor grabs Murphy's shirt.

The boys get into a close quarters battle. An occasional

insult is thrown as feet kick and fists fly. They begin to

get tangled in their own rope. The seam of the duct breaks

and a tangled mess of rope and MacManuses pour out.

INT.  PLAZA HOTEL  SUITE  NIGHT

They crash through the ceiling right above the fat man's

head. The rope gets caught and slams the boys to a halt,

hanging them upside down, back to back about six feet above

the floor. They are turning in circles. The boss is balled

up in the fetal position on the floor. The shocked Russians

say only a word or two in panic before the MacManus brothers

react, reaching for their guns. The Russians start to reach

for their guns. It's too late. The boys draw and fire as

they spin. Taking four shots apiece.

There are eight dead Russians. Chests explode as they fall

back on the couch in a loose circle. One victims is blasted

over the couch.

They notice the fat man directly beneath them. Murphy grabs

his Rambo knife, reaches up and cuts the rope. They land in

a heap, scramble over to the doomed man and place him on his

knees. They each put a gun to the back of his head and recite

this prayer in perfect unison.

With the silenced pop from their guns we cut the sound and

go to black and white. (Slo-mo) Choral music starts with

Latin script being read in the background. They take their

rosaries out. They slowly walk around, mumbling prayers as

they care for the dead. They gently turn over the bodies

that were on their stomachs. They brush the hair back from

the victims faces. They place pennies in the eyes of al the

corpses. When they finish their ritual, they pull off their

masks and look at each other. They start to grin and look

around. They work each other into a healthy chuckle.

They both laugh.

They are already striding for a suitcase full of money.

Murphy picks up a wad of bills.

Just then, there's a knock at the door. They snap into action.

They stand at each side of the double doors, looking through

the peepholes. They see Rocco on the other side dressed as a

hotel employee. He wears a polyester shirt with gold trim

and a name tag that reads Jaffar. He has a good cart in front

of him.

They look at each other and grin. Murphy nods. As they open

the door, Murphy grabs the food cart and pulls it in.

Connor seizes the mortified Rocco and pulls him in, slamming

the door shut behind him. They run, dragging him and then

throw him in the midst of the bodies. They put their guns

right in his face.

The boys put their faces close to his and demask. They start

laughing but Rocco just lays there, wide-eyed, in shock.

They boys saunter to the bar. Rocco takes a long beat.

The brothers laugh.

Rocco is silent and surprised. Murphy, also surprised, looks

at Rocco. All is quiet.

Murphy jokingly slaps Rocco a second time. Rocco instantly

jumps on Murphy, cursing and punching. The brothers burst

into laughter as they subdue Rocco. As he calms down, they

release him.

Murphy puts the two suitcases in his duffle bag and the two

brush by Rocco who is still unsatisfied with his explanation.

BACK TO PRESENT  INT.  ROCCO'S APARTMENT  NIGHT

Rocco has removed his hotel jacket.

Rocco ponders this as the boys continue to clean their

weapons.

The boys chuckle. Rocco steadily works himself into a humorous

frenzy.

The boys look at each other and nod.

INT.   ROCCO'S APARTMENT  NIGHT  ONE HOUR LATER

The three are partying hard. There's a pizza surrounded by

Guinness cans as they whoop it up, sitting at the round table.

Rocco wears one of the masks. They're all drunk. The house

cat is lounging on the table comfortably.

The boys nod in agreement.

Rocco slams his fist down on the table next to Murphy's gun.

The gun goes off with a bang! and blows the lounging cat

right off the table. A softball-sized hole is blasted in the

wall as a large splatter of blood sprays the area surrounding

the hole. Everyone is in shock for a second.

INT.  ROCCO'S APARTMENT  NEXT MORNING  11:30 A.M.

The three are passed out all over the apartment. Rocco

awakens. He stumbles past the wall with the large, round,

pink stain on it. There is a crooked picture hanging in the

middle of it.

Rocco staggers to the kitchen and throws water in his face

over a sinkful of dirty dishes. Connor awakens, grabs his

jacket and follows Rocco out.

EXT.  ROCCO'S FRONT STEPS  CONTINUOUS

Connor lights up two smokes and hands one to Rocco.

Murphy stumbles enters scene with Rocco and Connor.

A girl rides by on a bicycle, they pause as she rides between

them.

INT.  ROCCO'S APARTMENT  LATE AFTERNOON

Connor picks up the place as Murphy watches t.v. The phone

rings.

Rocco hangs up. Just then DONNA and her friend RAYVIE enter

the apartment. They are consummate junky sluts who are very

doped up and giddy.

INT.  SIN BIN  SMALL ROOM  NIGHT

Smecker ascends the three, small steps up to the round room.

A NUDE DANCER sits there on the couch in a robe. She is crying

as she is being consoled by Detective Duffy. This small room

is where men watch girls through a large glass window.

In this room a dancer performs on a floor a few feet above

the three private booths where each man watches from his own

booth. She appears as if on stage. All three windows are

shattered and there is blood on the wall of all three booths.

We see assorted body parts in each booth, but no faces.

Smecker looks at Dolly surprised.

Smecker sits next to the girl. He has Compassion. She Cries.

INT.  SIN BIN  SMALL ROOM  NIGHT

The bodies have been removed and chalk outlines replace them.

The bullet holes in the walls have been marked either A or

B. The detectives watch Smecker. He is a mess. His clothes

are disheveled and his hair is frazzled.

Smecker hits an orange button on the wall and a black steel

door with a money slot comes slamming down in front of the

first booth. He does the same thing to the last booth, leaving

the middle one open. Both doors possess peep holes.

Smecker seems side-tracked and ponderous at Greenly's

observation. He hits the orange buttons and raises the doors.

Smecker points to two bullet holes in the wall of the booth

on the left. Each is marked "B". He walks over to the right

booth where in the exact location are two identical holes

marked "A".

Smecker storms from the room. The detectives begin to follow.

Smecker comes barreling back in, shoving them out of the

way. He looks at the bullet holes in the walls marked "A and

B" again. Something has clicked.

INT. LAKEVIEW LUNCH  NIGHT

Smecker surveys photos and papers, as he smokes profusely.

He stands next to a table in the back where chairs are knocked

over. Body chalk and blood stains are everywhere. The

detectives seem like they don't want to be there, again.

Smecker flashes them a photo of a dead body. The victim is

shot in the head and face down in his plate of food. His

hands are on the table in front of him.

Smecker looks over the bar.

He storms to the entry way.

INT.  LAKEVIEW LUNCH  ENTRY WAY  NIGHT

Smecker walks across the street, still angry, and goes to a

payphone. There's an extreme close-up on his hand as he puts

in a quarter. As the quarter jingles in...

FLASHBACK  EXT.  STREET IN FRONT OF LAKEVIEW LUNCH  DAY

...there is a close-up on a hand pulling back from the coin

slot. The hand moves up to pull a cigarette from its

possessor's mouth. It is Rocco. He dials the phone.

He goes across the street and enters Salamone's.

INT.  ROCCO'S APARTMENT  DAY

Donna and Rayvie are laying on the couch. Connor is spit-

shining his boots by the window. Murphy lights his cigarette

on the gas stove and pours some salt in a pot of water with

a handful of pennies boiling to a shine in it. Rocco bursts

through the door, hysterical. Tears are streaming down his

face.

She stops, unsure of the cat's name.

Rocco rummages through her purse and finds her car keys.

They exit. Rayvie and Donna are hugging each other, crying.

INT.  CAR  EARLY EVENING

Rocco is in the back. Connor is driving.

INT.  FLASHBACK  SALAMONE'S  DAY

Rocco is standing at the back table while his cohorts remain

seated. They are OLY, and VINNIE.

Rocco looks at Sal the bartender who reaches for the phone.

They all start laughing together.

They all laugh as Rocco pulls his gun and shoots Oly in the

head. He lands face down in his plate of food. He shoots

Vinnie in the chest then turns on Sal. He yells "Funny, funny,

funny" as he pumps the remaining rounds into him.

INT.  BACK TO PRESENT  DONNA'S CAR

The boys laugh.

Connor pulls over directly in front of a pink neon sign that

says The Sin Bin.

EXT.  ALLEY BEHIND SIN BIN  NIGHT

Rocco, Connor and Murphy are looking very serious as they

smoke outside the rear door, in the alley. A drug dealer in

a hooded Boston Bruins jacket emerges from the opposing alley.

He stops a 13 year-old kid. The kid is scared as the drug

dealer slaps him. The kid give him money and the drug dealer

stuffs a small baggie in the boy's shirt. He lets him go and

withdraws into the alley.

As the boys and Rocco watch this from the opposing alley,

they begin to head for them, but Vincenzo's car pulls up

across the street. Rocco stops the boys and denotes Vincenzo.

The boys head in the front door. Rocco moves back into the

alley.

INT.  SIN BIN  NIGHT

Vincenzo enters and shuffles past the bar where the brothers

stand. He walks through a bead curtain at the back of the

busy porno house. The boys follow him.

INT.  SIN BIN  HALLWAY  NIGHT

They go to the back, open the exit door and let Rocco in.

The three wind down long dark hallways with Rocco leading

the way until they reach a green door. The boys stand, side

by side, directly in front of it. Rocco is just behind them.

The three pull identical 9mm.'s and the boys pull on their

masks. Rocco puts on a mask that he made from a dock worker's

cotton hat. He looks ridiculous.

He turns and is instantly taken with laughter at Rocco's

appearance. Connor turns, and has the same reaction.

They are now pointing and laughing.

He begrudgingly puts it back on. They reassume their position.

INT.  SIN BIN  SMALL ROOM  NIGHT

They burst into the room, climb up a few steps and are in a

small round room with a couch in it. A topless dancer sits,

smoking and drinking coffee, on the couch in front of three

big black steel doors with money slots in them. Rocco seizes

her, puts a hand over her mouth and a gun to her head.

She points to the middle door.

She points to an orange button. Each door has a button to

the left of it.

INT.  SIN BIN  CENTER BOOTH  NIGHT

We see the fuzzy reflection of a cheap porno movie being

reflected in Vincenzo's Elvis style sunglasses. He is shaking

as he masturbates.

INT.  SIN BIN  SMALL ROOM  NIGHT

Rocco is looking through the peep hole down on Vincenzo. He

still holds the terrified, crying dancer.

They back up and focus on the money slot. A hundred dollar

bill comes through. Connor gives it to the dancer.

The boys begin to recite their prayer. Rocco is smiling and

excited, he still hangs on to the now hyperventilating dancer.

They press the button. The door goes straight up. Vincenzo

has one moment of shock before the MacManuses decimate him

through the glass with silenced bullets. The glass silently

spiders and begins to fall in spots. His chest explodes,

sputtering medallions and bits of gold chain inside the booth.

The dancer faints and Rocco lays her down gently.

The boys step down in the boot and begin their ritual.

Rocco watches intently, intrigued. They finish and turn around

to see Rocco is immersed in grabbing one of the unconscious

dancer's breasts. They pull up their masks.

He gets up and starts tossing money on her as the boys giggle.

Just then two more bills come through the slots of the other

two doors, which have remained closed. Murphy looks through

left peep hole, Connor the right. Smiles spread across their

faces and they look at each other. They switch and each looks

through the other guy's peep hole.

Rocco looks in one. He says "Oh, wow" as he crosses and checks

out the other one.

The boys look at each other affirmatively.

Rocco gets serious and nods his head. Connor replaces the

clip in his gun and hands it to Rocco. Murphy does the same.

He stands with one in each hand, aiming one gun at each door.

The boys both place a finger on the appropriate orange

buttons, as Rocco slowly cocks his head back. With wide eyes

he thrusts his head forward. The doors fly up. Rocco fires

both guns yelling "Yeah, take it, take it!" Both the drug

dealer from outside and the pimp from the emergency room are

destroyed. Rocco then crosses his arms and fires two more

shots from each gun. On the opposing walls of each booth two

identical bullet holes appear.

INT.  SIN BIN  JUST OUTSIDE THE PRIVATE BOOTH  MINUTES LATER

Rocco shuts the door.

INT.  RITZY RESTAURANT BATHROOM  NIGHT

An old man appears to look at himself in the mirror of an

empty but very upper class bathroom. His eyes are very glazed

over. He puts a large leather case on the counter near the

sinks. A red and white blind stick hangs off his right

forearm.

Yakavetta enters, crosses behind him and stands next to him.

AUGUSTUS (72 years) sniffs the air. A look of angry

realization overtakes his face.

Augustus begins to remove items from his suitcase. First a

plate. He sets it down next to the sink. Then assorted

colognes, cigarettes and chewing gum. He begins arranging

them in neat rows, always feeling with his guiding hands.

Yakavetta puts an envelope of money in the plate.

INT.  PRISON PROCESSING ROOM  DAY

This is a gigantic three tiered room with guards on all tiers.

They all cock their shotguns.

A PRISONER is shackled barefoot to a small metal cart on

wheels. His hands are cuffed before him with a chain linking

his hands and feet. A guard is pulling the cart through the

prison to the parole board room by a long chain. The cons

have their mirrors out to get a better look. His face is in

shadow as he bows his head.

A metal cage is lowered around him from the ceiling. The

parole board looks him over. A stenographer sits poised

No response is given by the prisoner. The stenographer looks

at MR. COBB who gives her the nod. She begins typing though

no words are spoken.

INT.  RITZY RESTAURANT BATHROOM  DAY

Augustus hands him a piece of paper he scribbled on.

INT.  PAROLE PROCESSING ROOM  DAY

A large piece of paper is placed on the table and stamped

with the words parole granted across it.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM  BOSTON  DAY

The prisoner, Il Duce enters. He is clad in a long dark trench

coat with the collar pulled up, dark round glasses and a

dark hat. He puts a suitcase on the bed.

He walks over to the window. He slowly puts his hand outside

and watches the sun bounce off it. Tears begin to flow from

beneath his glasses as he breaks down. He begins to take off

his clothes as he weeps, casting them aside.

EXT.  HOTEL ROOM FIRE ESCAPE  BACK ALLEY  DUSK

The Duke is fully naked, except for a hotel blanket which is

wrapped around his waist, sitting on the fire escape. He

smiles and is still misty-eyed as he beholds the sun setting.

Scattered around him are all the furnishings of freedom;

Snickers bars, all kinds of empty candy wrappers, Coke cans,

and many assorted magazines.

INT.  COFFEE HOUSE  NIGHT  2:00 A.M.

Rocco and the brothers sit in an old Boston coffee house.

FLASHBACK  EXT.  SUBURBAN BEAVER CLEAVER-TYPE HOUSE  DUSK

Rocco waits in a late model Chevelle in front of a white

house. A man exits the house and walks across the sprawling

front lawn. Rocco leans over and says How ya doin', man?

The man doesn't respond and sits in the passenger seat.

During the following scenes we FLASHCUT between bits of

Rocco's experience that night to the coffee house and catch

bits of dialogue as he explains.

EXT.  DECREPIT HOUSE  NIGHT  CONTINUED

FLASHCUT: They pull up to a house in a scummy, Boston Logan

Airport neighborhood. Rocco gets out and sits on the hood

smoking as the man makes his way up the walk.

INT.  DECREPIT HOUSE  CONTINUED

Two tough looking wiseguys walk across a hallway cocking

shotguns. They disappear into a room.

FLASHCUT : He quietly enters the house and pulls a large

bright-blue plastic tarp from his coat and spreads it across

the floor in the hallway. We hear the sound of Sega video

games being played. He pulls out two pistols with silencers

and walk.

He disappears into the living room. Two white flashes and

the sounds of silencers. A hookerish looking mom enters frame

in the B.G. in the kitchen. She is talking on the phone. She

disappears from view. The man reappears and walks to the

kitchen. A white flash and the sounds of silencer.

He walks right down the hall and halts right in front of us

and listens. He goes into the room the wiseguys had entered.

We hear a second of male voices in protest. Two flashes of

light and the sounds of silencers. A dog is heard barking.

The man reappears in the hall and walks to its end, through

the kitchen. He opens a pair of sliding doors and steps out

of our view. A flash of white light and the sound of a

silencer.

EXT.  DECREPIT HOUSE  NIGHT  CONTINUED

Rocco is out front listening as the barks abruptly cease.

INT.  DECREPIT HOUSE  NIGHT  CONTINUED

FLASHCUT : The man drags a dead dog across the kitchen floor,

leaving a streak of blood. FLASHCUT : He drags the bodies of

two kids, two men and the woman down the hall toward us

leaving the hall carpet streaked with blood.

FLASHCUT : The man pulls out a large hunting knife and

disappears into each room. The sounds of hacking are heard.

He reappears holding different pieces of bloody debris. A

telephone, a piece of carpet, pieces of drywall. He takes a

mop and cleans off the blood on the linoleum of the kitchen

floor.

He walks toward us and stabs the mop in right before camera.

It stays standing.

FLASHCUT : We see from his p.o.v. a pile of broken bodies,

bloody debris and a dead dog with a mop sticking out the

top.

EXT.  DECREPIT HOUSE  NIGHT  CONTINUED

FLASHCUT : The man steps outside and motions Rocco in.

FLASHBACK  EXT.  BACK FACTORY LOT  NIGHT

Rocco's face is now expressionless as the two load the last

body in the furnace and toss the dog in, unloading from

Rocco's trunk. They shut the furnace door and there is just

the low hum of a furnace and the light wind blowing.

BACK TO PRESENT  INT.  COFFEE HOUSE  NIGHT

Rocco is looking down in silence.

INT.  ROCCO'S MOM'S KITCHEN  NEXT DAY  1:00 P.M.

The three burst in, all yelling at each other. They are all

bleeding profusely from gun shot wounds. Connor turns on the

gas stove and slams a new clothing iron down on the burner.

He has wrapped the cord around the handle so it won't burn.

They have all ripped their clothes haphazardly and have made

tourniquets to nurse their wounds.

The scene fades into total silence as they viciously argue.

They then take turns hold each other down as they cauterize

their wounds with the hot iron. Two guys will hold a third

down and force a wadded up pillow case in his mouth, as they

burn him

EXT.  BOSTON SUBURBAN BEAVER-CLEAVER TYPE HOUSE  SAME DAY

5:00 P.M.

Smecker sits on the balls of his fee on a sprawling front

lawn. He looks out to the street and sees a forensics

technician kneeling before a new, gray Ford Taurus riddled

with bullet holes. The man marks a sea of different-sized

bullet casings that stretch for thirty-five feet down the

sidewalk. He circles two blood stains on the side walk with

orange chalk.

Smecker turns and looks at the front of the house. It is

peppered with bullet holes, all seemingly concentrated on

the front stoop area. Men try to lift blood samples off the

white paint around the door. He stands and Dolly, Duffy and

Greenly are ready with pens and notebooks behind him.

FLASHBACK  INT.  PARKED FAMILY VAN  SAME DAY  NOON

Connor, Murphy and Rocco sit in a parked van, down the street

from the Beaver Cleaver house. The three are sitting next to

each other in the longer back seat. They have a counter in

front of them with all their guns and accessories on it.

The clicking of bullets into clips, and smacking of clips

into guns are heard. Smecker sits in the captain's chair

directly across from them, calmly smoking a cigarette. They

finish their preparation. Rocco holds up his guns.

Murphy spies a young boy peddling his bike out of the

driveway. He goes to the front of the van.

EXT.  SUBURBAN BEAVER CLEAVER TYPE HOUSE  DAY

Connor, Murphy, and Rocco make a frenzied exit from the van

and walk across the front lawn, each carrying a black duffle

bag and clutching a mask. The garage is opened a crack.

They pull it up all the way. The sun shines in on Smecker

who stands there smoking.

INT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  GARAGE  DAY

They enter and close the door behind them

They dive into their bags and suit up with leather gloves,

masks, navy P-coats and their guns.

INT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  DAY

The three open the door and enter the house and walk

deliberately down the hallway.

EXT. SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  BACKYARD  DAY

They walk with the terrified woman around the pool to a steel

door pool house entrance. There is a number pad next to the

door. Rocco positions her in front of it.

She slowly punches in the numbers. Smecker is standing there

smoking.

Rocco pulls a stun gun and zaps her with it. She goes down.

Connor reaches for the knob but Rocco stops him. They wait,

guns drawn and focus on the door knob.

The knob turns and they kick it in.

INT.  POOLHOUSE - DAY

They burst in and line up shoulder to shoulder, guns aimed.

Smecker stands beside Rocco with his thumb and forefinger

extended to mimic guns. Five mafiosos sit around a poker

table in front of time. Two men are playing pool to their

left. Rocco quickly scans the room.

They begin firing. Men are dying, their chests exploding.

Smecker moves his hands like firing guns and yells over the

noise.

Smecker points to the pool table as the two players dive

under it.

Smecker drops to his knees in perfect synchronicity with

Rocco. They are side by side and leaning back.

Rocco fires and the men under the table skip around as they

are riddled with bullets. Smecker's mimicking hands follow

him perfectly with each shot. The boys and Rocco demask.

Rocco goes around to all the bodies and looks earnestly at

each one, as Connor and Murphy pick up bullet casings.

INT.  POOLHOUSE  BATHROOM  DAY

The man they came for gets off the toilet and pulls up his

pants. He is expressionless. He pulls a towel rack from the

wall.

INT.  POOLHOUSE  DAY

The door behind Rocco begins to open outward. As the door

swings open, Rocco tries to angle a gun around to shoot the

man who is opening it. But as soon as the man sees his hand,

bam! he comes down on it with the towel rack. Rocco pulls

back in pain dropping his other gun but the gun fires, as

the man's blow connects. The shot pierces his stomach and

sends him against the wall. He holds his abdomen in pain.

There is a moment of recognition between the man and Rocco.

Rocco is terrified as the man dives on him and they begin

fighting. Murphy jumps to help, but Connor pulls him back.

They both stand in front of the pool table about thirty feet

from Rocco.

He is now being choked, as he glares at them in disbelief.

As Rocco is wrestling and punching on the floor. He looks

up.

Murphy is aching to help but Connor is more steady. A man

who has been shot starts to regain consciousness. Connor

turns his back to shoot him (slo-mo). Murphy sees his

opportunity, pulls the cue ball from the table, and rolls it

silently across the carpet toward Rocco.

Connor fires with his left hand and as the casing ejects

from the gun he catches it in mid air and makes the sign of

the cross. Rocco is on his back, the man is straddling him.

They both have each others throats and are trying to strangle

one another. When the ball is within arms reach, Rocco slams

his hand down on it and knocks his assailant in the skull.

He straddles him and begins to mercilessly beat his face in

with the cue ball, yelling "You sick fuck!"

He finally stops, gets up, runs toward the boys, and throws

an exhausted punch at Connor who just lays Roc down on the

pool table and says, "Nicely done, boy". Murphy tends to

Roc. Connor checks out the man and seems surprised.

Murphy takes the bloody cue ball from Rocco's hand and

polishes it off on his jacket, making sure Connor cannot

see. He replaces it perfectly on the table. Smecker now stands

in front of the table with the cue shining in the background.

Smecker exits to the left as Greenly enters from the right,

following Smecker out. He walks by the table furiously

scribbling in his notebook. Connor, Murphy and Rocco exit

the room, pennies in the eyes of all the corpses in the

background. Rocco holds two duffle bags full of poker money.

Greenly stops, picks up the cue ball and looks at the dead

man. He shakes his head and says, "Nah".

EXT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  FRONT LAWN  DAY

Smecker stands in the middle of the front lawn. His hair is

a mess. He's chain-smoking. His clothes are disheveled.

His eyes are psychotic. He points to the parked Taurus as

six men in dark suits appear in a fuzzy, out-of-focus shot.

They line up shoulder to shoulder on the sidewalk.

EXT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  FRONT LAWN  DAY

Rocco, Connor and Murphy walk toward the front door.

EXT.  SUBURBANK "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  SIDEWALK  DAY

(Slo-mo) Two black leather boots slowly walk up the sidewalk

and stop in front of the new, gray Ford Taurus then turn

toward the house. Il Duce removes a white balloon filled

with a few ounces of fluid from the pocket of his black trench

coat. He throws it on the walk, the blood splatters. He picks

up the remnants of the balloon and puts them back in his

pocket and stands there waiting, looking at the house.

EXT.  SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  FRONT STOOP  DAY

The boys come out, Rocco in the middle and slightly ahead of

them. They look out to the walk, stunned.

Our three heroes stand, their jaws dropping as their point

of view reveals the Il Duce, standing alone, his hands folded

in front of him.

Suddenly, he throws open his trench coat to reveal a special

leather vest beneath. Six guns, all different, are holstered

on the front of it: three on each side extend from just below

his collar bones to his abdomen. Connor and Murphy don't

hesitate. They each draw one of their now unsilenced guns

from their shoulder holsters and aim, one arm over each of

Rocco's shoulders. The Duke draws his top two weapons and

aims.

They all start shooting at once. The noise is deafening.

The Taurus is being pierced and the front of the house is

splintering as it is riddled with bullets. Smecker is still

in the middle, hands raised to the heavens, turning circles.

Rocco's pinky finger gets shot off, sending blood splattering

against the house. He dives in the bushes reeling. He pulls

a gun and starts firing.

Murphy catches a bullet in the arm and dives for the bushes

as well. Il Duce with lightening speed, drops the guns and

pulls the next two down as he walks to his right about ten

feet. He commences firing and the casings hit the sidewalk,

all different calibers and sizes are dropping down the walk.

It's him and Connor and nobody is backing down. They both

grind their teeth as they fire rapidly at each other. At the

same moment, The Duke gets hit in the arm and Connor takes a

bullet in the leg. The firing ceases for a moment.

Connor remains steady and Il Duce looks down at his arm and

his own blood splattered on the sidewalk.

He drops the guns and pulls the last two as he moves to the

right. He fires with wrath as he screams the word No over

and over. Rocco and Murphy return fire from the bushes yelling

and swearing, as Connor does the same from his position on

the stoop.

The Duke turns and runs, leaving a sea of casings, and guns

that extend for 35 feet down the walk. There are also two

blood stains.

In a frenzy the boys and Rocco get up and withdraw some spray

bottles from their bags. The begin spraying all their own

blood stains on the stoop and the front of the white house.

They then pick up their things and run off.

EXT. SUBURBAN "BEAVER CLEAVER" TYPE HOUSE  FRONT LAWN  DAY

Smecker comes back to reality and lights a cigarette in front

of Dolly, Duffy, and Greenly.

He turns to the forensics guys at the front of the house and

begins to walk over to him.

Smecker puts his finger through a big blood stain on the

door and smells it.

He starts kicking the bushes and trying to tear them with

his hands as he rages. The police and forensics all back

off.

He backs against the building and slides down to a sitting

position in the bushes as if he has given up. He raises his

head and there he sees Rocco's pinky finger lying undiscovered

in the bushes. He pulls a small plastic bag from his pocket

and scoops it up. He shoves it back into his pocket and races

off.

INT.  ROCCO'S MOM'S KITCHEN  NIGHT

Rocco, Connor, and Murphy are sitting around the table.

They are numb with pain and silently sipping beers. Suddenly,

Smecker comes on the news making an announcement that he is

heading up the investigation to find the three of them.

Rocco shuts it off.

The boys look at each other.

INT.  SMECKER'S BEDROOM  NIGHT

Smecker is sitting at a computer terminal. He has just hooked

into the F.B.I.'s computer network with his authorization

code. He is disgusted as he puts on surgical gloves and finger

prints the severed finger onto a scanner. He waits for a

moment. Rocco's face and rap sheet come up on his screen. He

is in disbelief.

FLASHBACK  EXT.  POLICE STATION FRONT STEPS

Rocco on the steps of the police station when Rocco brought

the boys their clothes.

BACK TO PRESENT  INT.  SMECKER'S BEDROOM  NIGHT

He picks up the phone.

She reads a few names then hits David Della Rocco.

He hangs us, puts in a smoke, and knocks his head back in

deep thought.

INT.  GAY BAR  NIGHT

Smecker is drinking like a fiend. He is disturbed and rowdy.

He's a bad drunk. He downs a shot and motions for another

one. The BARTENDER comes over.

He obeys. A good looking gay man comes up and whispers in

Smecker's ear and points to the back room.

They proceed to the back. Smecker is stumbling.

EXT.  STREET IN FRONT OF CHURCH  EARLY MORNING

Rocco pulls Vincenzo's car to the curb and the MacManus'

exit.

EXT.  STREET IN FRONT OF THE GAY BAR  EARLY MORNING

Smecker staggers out of the bar. He is an absolute wreck.

Rocco exits a package store just down the street. He is

opening a new pack of cigarettes. He is surprised when he

sees Smecker at the other end of the block. He follows the

stumbling agent, fumbling for his gun.

EXT.  STREET IN FRONT OF CHURCH  EARLY MORNING

Paul sees a church and reflects for a moment before crossing

the street and going in, Rocco a safe distance behind.

INT.  CHURCH  EARLY MORNING

Connor and Murphy are at prayer in the back of the church.

It is mostly empty because of the early hour.

Connor looks up and sees Smecker and Rocco way up in the

front. His eyes are ablaze. He is up and walking and does

not bother Murphy, who remains penitent. There are two

confessional booths with a priest booth in the middle.

Smecker goes in the booth on the far left. Rocco tries the

door, it's locked. A middle-aged PRIEST slips a key in the

priests booth and opens the door. Rocco shoves him in and

goes in behind him. Connor has quickened his pace. He tries

both doors. They're locked. He goes into the confessional on

the right.

INT.  CHURCH  PRIEST'S BOOTH  EARLY MORNING

Rocco puts his gun to the priest's head.

INT.  CHURCH  CONNOR'S CONFESSIONAL  EARLY MORNING

Connor is furiously working his fingers through the lattice

work to open the slider to the priest's booth from his side.

INT.  CHURCH  PRIEST'S BOOTH  EARLY MORNING

Rocco takes the priest and puts his face in front of the

slider to Smecker's booth, gun to the back of his head.

Connor gets the slider open. Rocco's long hair hangs just

inches from Connor's face. Connor puts his thumb and

forefinger through, desperately reaching for a lock of Rocco's

hair. Rocco jostles the priest and puts the gun hard to his

head.

Rocco starts to move the priest aside and put his gun to

Smecker's now open slider.

Just then Connor snags a piece of Rocco's hair and pulls him

back hard and fast by it, until his head slams into the

lattice work. Rocco grabs the priest back into position.

Connor grabs a nice wad of Rocco's hair with his left hand,

so that the side of Rocco's face is now pressed to the

lattice. Connor then puts a gun to Rocco's head.

INT.  CHURCH CONFESSIONAL BOOTHS  EARLY MORNING

Smecker wakes up from a drunken stupor. He looks through the

slider window at the barely discernible face of the now crying

priest.

The priest can hear Connor and Rocco whisper, but Smecker

cannot.

Connor and Rocco stop and listen now.

Rocco shakes the priest.

Rocco and Connor show their individual looks of surprise.

The look of surprise on Rocco and Connor's faces show that

the priest is doing a hell of a job.

The priest starts to show signs of anger as he starts turning

to Rocco.

Fear returns to the priests face. Rocco presses the gun hard

to the priests head and jostles him.

Rocco jostles the priest again.

Smecker exits and they all let go after a brief pause. Rocco

turns and starts fixing up the priest's ruffled suit.

INT.  CHURCH  EARLY MORNING

Rocco exits the booth and shuts the door behind him. Connor

is standing outside, hands on his hips. Rocco smiles at him

as Connor fumes.

Connor slaps him in the back of the head and kicks him in

the ass. Rocco's still giggling as they exit.

INT.  PHONE BOOTH  UPTOWN  LATER

INT.  PHONE BOOTH  DOWNTOWN  CONTINUOUS

We shoot alternating coverage between the two locations.

INT.  RITZY RESTAURANT BATHROOM  NIGHT

Smecker stands beside Augustus, just the way Yakavetta did.

Smecker tosses an envelope of cash in his plate, just as

Yakavetta did.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  BASEMENT HALL  NIGHT

There are several bodies in the hall, some with pennies in

their eyes, some without. Down the dark basement halls there

is more gore. The boys and Rocco can be heard screaming from

a room in the basement. Yakavetta's voice is heard yelling

and in command.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  BASEMENT ROOM  NIGHT

Connor, Murphy, and Rocco are all hand cuffed to chairs in

the seated position. Their clothes are ripped and they have

been beaten severely. Blood covers them. Rocco has been

uncuffed and two men hold his open hand up as Yakavetta puts

a pistol at the base of his remaining pinky finger. Several

other hold him down as he and the boys scream in tough

protest.

They all yell for him to fuck off. Although Rocco is

terrified, he is holding out. Yakavetta fires and Rocco's

finger is gone. The blood splatters on Connor's face. Rocco

screams in pain saying fuck you through his sobs. After re-

cuffing Rocco, Yakavetta and his goons exit.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  BASEMENT HALL  NIGHT

Yakavetta is in the hall with four men. GENO (35 yrs.) very

big. CHAPPY (22 yrs.) wears sunglasses even in the dark,

trying to look cool. HOJO (28 yrs.) is slick and good-looking.

Another Mafioso cohort is with them as well.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  BASEMENT ROOM  NIGHT

He walks back into the room. He saunters up to Rocco very

nonchalantly and shoots him in the chest. His chair is blown

back to the floor. The boys are screaming and crying as

Yakavetta walks out.

As Rocco dies, they fall into prayer.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  FRONT FOYER  NIGHT

Yakavetta lights up a cigar and talks to his men.

Yakavetta stops as if terrified with a thought.

The four guys are left alone. They all look far from confident

except for Geno.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  BASEMENT ROOM  NIGHT

Murphy has scootched his chair in front of Connor's. He has

his back to Connor.

He stretches his neck over and bites at the collar of his p-

coat. He gathers as much of the material in his mouth as he

can. He starts to yell, "Do it!" but it is muffled.

Connor, still sobbing, begins to kick his brother's left

hand repeatedly. He turns it into a bloody piece of broken

meat as Murphy screams through the shirt. Finally, it is

broken enough and Murphy pulls it through the cuff.

He stands and breaks the chair into pieces and grabs the

sharpest piece. Hojo enters and Murphy shoves the sharp stick

up through the bottom of his chin into his head. He drags

him around the room yelling mumbo jumbo into his face as

Connor jumps up and down in his chair in rage, wanting a

piece of the action.

Murphy throws the man down and Connor proceeds to viciously

kick his dead body. The two have turned into barbarians.

Murphy removes the man's two guns, shiny nickel-plated 45s.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S FRONT FOYER  NIGHT

There is a knock at the door. Geno jumps with fright and

then looks out the peep hole. He sees a well-formed pair of

woman's breasts in a cheap dress. He opens the door. A

stunning blonde stands before him. She looks like a hooker.

She wears a short, hot pink dress and a white scarf around

her neck, as well as six inch platform heels.

The woman speaks and it is apparent that this is actually

Smecker in drag.

Smecker kisses him full on the lips and rubs up against him.

Geno is convinced. He brings her inside.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  NIGHT

He takes Smecker into a small bathroom adjoining the foyer.

They are instantly in the throws of passion. They grope each

other and Smecker cleverly avoids any contact with his crotch.

Smecker lies down on the floor and starts to wiggle and

seductively touch himself. Geno stands over him, straddling

Smecker's hips as he undoes his pants. Suddenly, Smecker

grabs both of Geno's ankles and has him locked in position.

He repeatedly kicks Geno in the balls from his lying position

on the floor. The guy falls on his back unconscious. Smecker

uses a silencer, shoots him in the head.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  HALL  NIGHT

He starts to whisper, "It's on now. It's on now. Too far."

as he walks down the hall, striding in his high heels, wig

back in place. He thoughtlessly blows Chappy away as he passes

his position and runs down a long hallway. He turns a corner

and points his gun at the Mafioso cohort but pauses.

He is already sitting with his throat cut. Smecker looks

puzzled as Il Duce withdraws from the shadows behind him.

The Duke pistol whips Smecker. He's out.

INT.  YAKAVETTA'S HOUSE  BASEMENT ROOM  NIGHT

Connor and Murphy are on their knees in front of Rocco, whom

they have sat back up in the chair. They are gently placing

pennies in his eye and sobbing as they begin to recite the

prayer. As they speak, Il Duce watches. He then begins to

whisper the prayer right along with them. Their words match

up perfectly. He leans against the wall, holsters his guns,

and withdraws a cigarette.

He rolls it along his tongue and twists it into his lips.

The boys are still reciting as he strikes a match. They react

instantly. Still kneeling they each point a nickel-plated 45

toward The Duke. They turn in time to see the light from the

match illuminate his face. Il Duce pauses then he strides

into the room and proceeds to recite the last half of the

prayer.

He stops between the kneeling boys and finishes off the

prayer. The boys are stunned as they realize this is their

father. He makes the sign of the cross over Rocco. Then he

looks down to the upturned faces of his sons. He places a

hand on each of their cheeks.

INT.  CHEAP BOSTON HOTEL ROOM  NIGHT  3 MONTHS LATER

Both sleeping boys throw their arms out, mimicking a crucified

Christ. Their father turns, sees this, turns back.

The boys wake with a start. Connor looks to his father, who

is already staring at him.

INT.  COURTHOUSE  BACK FOYER AREA  MORNING

Smecker opens the door from the inside and lets the MacManus

father and sons in. He walks one way they walk the other

through the grand courthouse halls.

INT.  COURTROOM  MORNING

The media, with their cameras and notebooks, are at the back

of the courtroom. Yakavetta is testifying on the stand. He

is cocky. The judge warns Yakavetta that he will have no

more of this behavior in his courtroom.

INT.  FOYER TO COURTROOM  DAY

The MacManusus stand in the foyer. There are a pair of doors

that go to the outside hallway and a pair that go to the

inside courtroom. There is an armed guard directly inside

the courtroom, in front of the doors.

The door opens a crack and Connor waves the guard into the

foyer and starts talking to him. Then dad zaps him with a

stun gun. The guard is on the floor, incapacitated and

drooling as the boys handcuff him.

Connor pulls out a length of chain and drapes it through the

door handles that lead from the hall into the foyer. He locks

them in with a padlock.

The father zaps the incapacitated man a second time as he

lay.

They suit up, Connor and Murphy in their usual masks and

gloves, Dad is already in his usual dark hat and glasses.

The boys start for the courtroom door but dad gently holds

them back. He takes a moment, then slowly removes his hat

and glasses. His sons look at one another and then remove

their masks. The three look into each others eyes for a

moment.

INT.  COURTROOM  DAY

The three burst in, guns drawn, and are walking down the

aisle.

Terrified, they all obey. Connor and Murphy pull Yakavetta

from the witness booth by his hair and place him on his knees

just before the judge's bench. They face him toward the

occupants of the courtroom. The father walks up and motions

for the judge, who is now banging his gavel and shouting in

protest, to come off the stand.

As soon as he is within arms reach, dad takes him by the

collar and drags him down the aisle all the way to where the

media stands in horror. He turns and walks back down the

aisle.

All eyes to the front.

The father keeps them covered. He passes the front, he looks

and sees a VIRGINAL-LOOKING WOMAN with her head down crying

into her hands. She is on the left side. He gently tilts her

chin forward, her eyes fixated on a faded blue butterfly on

the back of his hand.

The father takes out a flask. He pours the booze on the judges

bench and set it ablaze. Fire alarms start to sound.

Connor and Murphy jump up on the lawyers' tables. Murphy on

the prosecution side, Connor on the defense. The father has

his sawed-off to the back of Yakavetta's head.

Connor and Murphy jump off the table. They approach Yakavetta

and stand on either side of their father. All three men hold

guns to his head and recite the prayer. As they speak, the

right side of the courtroom screams in protest. The left

watches in wide-eyed terror, although some men encourage

them to do it. The MacManus' read the prayer. They do not

falter as the flames rage behind them.

Yakavetta, accepting his fate, closing his eyes. Peacefully,

he does the sign of the cross. The all fire at once. The

room explodes in confusion. The three exit the back.

INT.  LONG CEMENT HALLWAY  SUBLEVEL OF COURTHOUSE

The MacManuses are all shackled and in blue jumpsuits of the

Boston lock-up facility with bags over their heads. Duffy is

in full uniform with a shotgun behind them. Smecker is leading

the prisoners down the hall. He flashes his F.B.I.

identification to every cop he encounters.

INT.  COURTHOUSE INSIDE GRANDE FOYER STEPS  DAY

The media is in a frenzy. Little bits of the story are known.

The people from the left and right sides of the courtroom

are yelling and pushing each other as cameras and microphones

try to pick up the news. Finally all the focus comes to the

virginal woman who had been sitting in the front row. All

lights, cameras and microphones are on her.

(Slo-mo) She sees at the grande hall's end Smecker leading

the three out, bags still over their heads. She sees Dad's

butterfly tattoo. She knows.

The people who had been on Yakavetta's side of the courtroom

threaten her and force their way through the crowd toward

her, thus causing the two sides to fight. Everyone, even

reporters are in it. The camera tilts up ending on the statue

of the Blind Lady of Justice.

