FADE IN:

Inside a closet.

It is a large closet with double doors, a crisp line of light

cutting down through the center of the darkness.

As we begin to descend, voices echo in our head.

We move past a shelf filled with hatboxes and handbags.  It

is a woman's closet.

We glide over the tightly packed hangers, close enough to

feel the different fabrics and descend past the dresses to

the racks of high heels.

We slide along the delicate taper of a stiletto heel and

reach the bottom of the closet, where we find a pair of black

Dr. Martens boots that are tied together with a white rope.

We move up the boots and we see it is a woman who is bound,

lying motionless on the floor of the closet, the rope coiling

tightly around her wrists.

The crack at the bottom of the door lights her face.  She is

gagged and unconscious, a trickle of blood running down her

forehead.  Her name is CORKY.

INT.  ELEVATOR - DAY

Leaning against the back of the elevator is Corky, a very

butch-looking woman with short hair and a black leather

jacket.  She is a lesbian and wants people to know it.

As the doors begin to slide shut, a woman yells.

Corky pushes the "open" button.  A couple steps into the

elevator.  His name is CAESAR, a middle-aged Italian, wearing

an expensive suit and sunglasses.

She is VIOLET; a piece of sexual candy that would melt in

your mouth.

She hears it again, a guttural sound.

She hangs up the phone and walks toward the wall.

As she gets closer, we hear a bed rocking, tapping against

the wall.

The man's breathing grows more and more labored until finally

it swells --

INT.  BATHROOM - MORNING

The whining motor of a high-powered drain-rod.

The spiral cable whips wildly, spiraling deeper into the tub

drain, black goo splattering everywhere.

The machine is so loud Corky almost cannot hear someone

pounding on the apartment door.

Killing the motor, she stands and goes to the door.

Behind the door is Violet, wearing jeans, a white T-shirt

and cowboy boots.

She is holding two cups of coffee: one black, one with cream.

Violet steps inside as Corky goes back to the bathroom to

wash off the drain dreck.

Corky calls from the bathroom, scrubbing her hands vigorously.

She wipes her hands on her overalls, returning to the main

room.

Violet hands her the cup of black coffee.

They both sip from the piping hot mugs.

She looks at Corky's hands cupped around the mug.

Corky smiles.

VIOLET SIPS

Corky suddenly feels she has revealed something.

Smiling, she says nothing else.

CORKY watches her leave.

EXT.  THE WATERING HOLE - NIGHT

A dirty bar hidden away on a dark street, its cracked, moon-

white sign the only evidence it exists.

Corky's truck swings into a space in front of a couple of

large motorcycles.  She flips her collar and heads for the

door.

INT.  THE WATERING HOLE - NIGHT

The smell of leather and cigarette smoke fills Corky's nose

as she crosses to the bar.

Corky sits as the fat bartender waddles over.

Corky puts a cigarette in her mouth and lights it.

Sue opens the refrigerator and pulls out two Old Styles.

They click the bottles together and drink.

Sue laughs.

Corky gets off the stool.

Looking around, she sees a woman alone at one of the back

tables.  Through the smoky din, she bears a slight resemblance

to Violet.

The woman is dressed all in black, including a leather jacket.

Smiling, Corky slides into the chair beside her.  There is

no one smoother.

The woman smiles just as someone taps Corky on the shoulder.

She turns and is face-to-face with a large bull of a woman

in a heavy leather Chicago Police jacket.  She is more wide

than fat.

Her coat opens as she puts her hands on her hips.  A service

revolver is clipped to her belt.

She squints at Corky, her head nodding in recognition.

Corky smiles at the woman in black.

She heads for the exit.

EXT.  CITY STREET - NIGHT

The neighborhood would be politely described as "rough."

Corky's truck does not stand out parked alone on the littered

street.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

It is a hole but it is home.

Corky is lying on her futon staring up at the ceiling, a

beer resting on her stomach; a folk singer quietly croons

from the radio.

We see the ceiling, a circle of light hovering over the small

desk lamp.  We move in on the spot, which slowly fills up

the screen until there is nothing but the white light.

Suddenly a wet paint roller loaded with white paint cuts a

swath across the ceiling.

MATCH CUT TO:

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - DAY

Corky is painting the ceiling.  The folk ballad has become

an angry Riot Grrrl anthem.

She is working hard, the roller sucking back and forth.

Sweat covers her face.

Dropping the roller down, she reloads it in the tray when

the phone rings.  She stops and answers it.

She listens for a moment.

She glances at the main wall.

She hangs up and looks again at the wall, feeling...  curious.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

Corky knocks and after a moment Violet opens the door.  She

seems surprised.

She steps back and Corky walks inside.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Violet leads her through the apartment.  It is expensively

furnished with very masculine tastes; a lot of gray and black

leather.

Corky looks at her blankly.

An eyebrow goes up.

Violet nods.

She opens the sink cabinet and pulls out a pair of channel

locks from her back pocket.  The teeth of the channel locks

open and bite onto the pressure nut.

She hands one down to her.  Corky slides it under the curved

pipe.

As she works, Corky feels herself staring at Violet, at the

hem of her dress curving tightly around her thighs.

Water begins to trickle into the pan.

The nut slides loose and Corky tips the trap.  Water splashes

into the pan with a soft metal "tink."

Corky fishes into gray water and pulls out the earring.

Violet screams, a huge smile on her face, half-falling as

she tries to hug Corky.

Corky leans back under and replaces the trap.

Corky checks the drain by running the water.

Corky eyes her for a moment.

She smiles and turns to the bar.

Corky sits on the black leather couch and Violet returns

with two bottles of Heineken.  Corky sneers.

They clink the bottles and swig.

She looks at Violet, then takes another long pull on the

bottle.

Violet smiles, her eyes again talking for her.

Violet notices the tattoo on Corky's arm.

She reaches over and touches it.

Corky is a bit suprised that she knows what it is.  She nods,

rubbing it as if trying to hide it.

She moves closer, sliding over the leather cushions as she

opens the front of her dress.

She is not wearing a bra.

Set against the soft white skin of her breast is a bright

green-stemmed violet.

Corky looks up from Violet's breast to her dark eyes.

She runs her fingers softly over the slightly scarred skin.

Corky feels the blood pounding in her ears as Violet takes

her hand and places it on her breast.

Violet looks at her.

Corky watches her, trying to figure her out even as her thumb

presses into Violet's nipple.

Inhaling sharply, Violet closes her eyes; she can feel Corky

staring at her.

She takes Corky's wrist and begins pulling her hand down her

body.

She forces Corky's hand between her legs, up under her dress.

Violet opens her eyes, a wanton smile on her lips.

Corky's forearm flexes and Violet moans.

With both hands, Violet takes hold of Corky's forearm.

Violet's head swims; she is unable to breathe.

Now it is Corky who smiles.

Violet shivers, her thighs rubbing, her hips thrusting against

Corky's hand.

Her eyes barely open.

In a single motion, Corky takes hold of the back of her neck

and covers Violet's open mouth with her own.

With her hand still stuffed between Violet's legs, Corky

lays her back onto the couch as the kiss becomes more --

More desperate, more hungry until --

We hear the front door unlock and open.

Violet's eyes pop open and she pushes Corky back.

They scramble to compose themselves.

He comes around the corner and in the dim light sees the two

figures sitting close on the couch.

He mistakes Corky for a man.

Violet stands as Caesar barrels toward the couch.

Corky stands and turns, Caesar suddenly realizing that she

is a woman.

He reaches to the wall for the lights.

Caesar extends his hand.

Corky shakes his hand.

He looks at her as if he knows something.

Corky shakes her head.

Corky doesn't like this man.

He whistles.

He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a thick fold of

money and peels several hundreds.  Corky stares at it.

Corky takes it.  Caesar smiles.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Close on the paintbrush, Corky's fingers pushing through and

separating the black bristles under the running water.

When the brush is clean, she flicks it dry and resets the

edge.

She goes to the sink to wash her hands when she stops,

noticing her left hand.

It is the hand that was between Violet's legs.

She is about to smell her finger when she sees herself in

the mirror.

She drops her hand.

She scrubs her hands clean.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

It is late, the area burnished with amber street light.

Corky walks from the building to her truck.

She climbs inside and slides the key into the ignition, when

suddenly the passenger door opens and --

Violet gets in.  Stunned, Corky stares at her.

Violet smiles.

She slides across the seat.

She kisses Corky, and if Corky is trying to resist, we can't

tell.

The windshield is beginning to steam when Violet, panting,

breaks the kiss.

Unable to speak, Corky reaches over and starts the engine.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The sex.

There is nothing flower-scented or out-of-focus about it.

It is sweaty, slippery, body-grinding, bed-squeaking lesbian

sex --

Pungent and potent --

And when it is over, neither woman can move.

Finally, Corky's eyes flutter open.

Violet smiles.

Slowly, Corky gets up and goes to the fridge.  She grabs a

beer and presses it to her sweating forebead.

After a moment, she lowers it, gently pressing the cold can

elsewhere.  Eyes closed, she lets out a long "Ahh."

Violet hears the sizzle-pop of the beer as Corky returns to

the bed.

She holds the beer to Violet's lips and tilts the can,

watching Violet's throat as she drinks.

Violet's eyes open.

Corky hands her the beer as Violet sits up a bit.

Corky stares at her beer.  She knows what Violet is thinking.

Corky sips her beer.

It isn't like her to talk about this, especially with someone

she just met.

We can almost hear the coins tinkling on the tile floor.

Violet smiles.  She likes this woman.

Sbe swallows that with beer.

She glances at Violet.

Violet laughs.

EXT. PARKING LOT DAY

Corky gets out of her truck carrying her tools.  Grinning

like someone who has been well-laid, she whistles off to

work.

EXT. LOBBY - DAY

Between the main doors she sees a man.  His name is SHELLY

and he is an overdressed accountant.

He is very nervous, talking to someone through the intercom.

Fiddling with her keys, Corky recognizes the voice that

answers him.

Shelly glances over his shoulder at Corky, answering in a

hushed voice.

SHELLY

I have to leave.  Tonight.

For a moment the intercom is silent.  Then the door buzzes

and Shelly pushes inside.  Corky follows him to the elevator.

INT.  ELEVATOR - DAY

Corky glares at Shelly and begins pumping the trigger of her

circular saw.

Shelly hides behind his sunglasses, watching the elevator

numbers go up.  The doors open and he scurries out.

INT.  HALL - DAY

She watches him enter Caesar's apartment, her smile now

completely gone.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - DAY

It is later.  Through the wall we listen to the same sound

as before of two people making love.  We drop down and find

Corky's brush, still wet with paint, abandoned in her tray.

INT.  BEDROOM - DAY

Her face glistening with sweat, Violet climaxes, letting the

orgasm spread through her like melting butter.

She flattens her palms against the soft cradle of her pelvis.

As she opens her eyes, we see that her lover is Corky.  Violet

watches as she gets off the bed and begins to get dressed.

Corky does not answer as she yanks her pants on.  Violet

sits up.  She can feel that something is wrong.

Violet pulls the sheet around her.

That knocks Corky back.

Violet stare pins Corky to the wall.

That's all Violet can take.

Violet turns away.

That stings but Corky walks out without looking back.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

It is dark now.  Corky is standing above the paint tray that

has skinned over.  She picks up the brush.  It is dry with

paint.

She throws the brush across the room.

EXT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

A green-and-white street sign juts in the foreground of

Caesar's upscale apartment building.

The sign reads: "FRANKLIN STREET."

EXT.  PARKING LOT - DAY

The rusty Chevy glides to a stop in a parking space near the

service entrance.  In its payload is a boxed bathroom vanity

and sink.

Corky climbs out of the cab and into the back, unhooking the

bungee cords that hold down the boxes.

She looks up as a black Lincoln Town Car screeches into a

spot not far from her truck.  THREE SERIOUS-LOOKING MEN get

out, leading a fourth, Shelly.

He is the only one who seems to notice Corky.

They enter the building, the door closing behind them.

INT.  BATHROOM - DAY

Corky's legs jut out from the old wicker vanity as she

finishes detaching its anchors and pipe work.

She stands, giving it a yank and pulling it away from the

wall, when voices begin to filter in from the next-door

apartment.

She listens - a rising string of warbling sobs drowned out

by an angry voice.

We hear a scream.

Each sentence is punctuated with grunts and thuds.

We begin to close in on Corky as she listens to each thud,

watching something that disturbs her.

With each thud the water in the toilet shimmers like a struck

cymbal.  As we move closer, the sound swells until --

INT.  CAESAR'S BATHROOM DAY

Where blood splatters the toilet, heavy drops hitting the

water and spreading like inverted mushroom clouds.

The angry voice belongs to JOHNNIE MARZZONE.  Shelly is

kneeling in front of the toilet, hands tied behind his back

with electrical wire.

Johnnie Marzzone is a flashy young man in Armani slacks,

silk shirt and silver-tipped cowboy boots.  His tie is tucked

in, as if torture were a fine-dining experience.

Caesar and two other men are crammed in the small bathroom.

Shelly screams as Jobnnie repeatedly rams his face into the

toilet.

Caesar hands a towel to Johnnie, who stuffs it into Shelly's

mouth.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - DAY

Like Corky, Violet can hear the beating.  She is trying to

block it out but cannot.

Standing at the bar, she runs the blender, grinding ice cubes,

trying to drown out the sounds of the bathroom.

The bathroom door opens.

Caesar steps out, shutting the door, masking the sounds behind

him.  Violet moves toward him.

The door opens again as someone else steps out.

She nods.

He takes hold of her.

He embraces her.  Over his shoulder she sees MICKEY MALNANO

in the hallway, staring at her.

He is an older man, hair graying, built like a fireplug.

Sinewy mass strains at his Brooks Brothers suit.

Mickey continues to stare at Violet, who looks up at him

with her big doe eyes.

He goes to the kitchen.

Mickey moves closer to Violet, lifting her chin the way a

father would do to his little girl.

She smiles.

Caesar returns from the kitchen.  He is holding a pair of

tin snips.  Mickey takes them.

Violet watches them return to the bathroom.

INT.  BATHROOM - DAY

Mickey takes off his coat and hands it to a large man named

LOU.  He slaps Johnnie on the back.

Johnnie hits Shelly once more.

Johnnie checks his hair in the mirror, carefully.  Then he

begins putting on the rings he had removed for the beating.

Mickey kneels down next to Shelly's ear and motions to Lou,

who lifts Shelly's bound arms.

Mickey grabs Shelly's pinky finger, putting it between the

metal blades.

Shelly whimpers, red-faced and sobbing.  There is a sick

crunch and Shelly howls into his gag as his pinky finger

bounces to the floor amid the expensive leather footwear.

We hear Caesar retrieve a tissue and his hand enters the

frame, scooping up the pinky.

He plunks the severed finger into the toilet and it sinks to

the bottom.

Caesar drops the toilet seat down and flushes.

INT.  BATHROOM - EMPTY APARTMENT - DAY

Corky can't stand it anymore.  She throws her tools down,

leaves the bathroom and finds --

Violet waiting in the main room.  Both women stand apart in

silence.

Violet seems on the verge of saying something but doesn't

know how to start.  Her lip begins to quiver; her eyes search

the room, returning to Corky each time.

The violence in the next room can still be heard.

Almost unnoticeably, Violet shakes her bead.  Corky puts her

arm around her.

INT.  BAR - DAY

It is the kind of bar businessmen drink at in the afternoon.

Dark wood and padded leather.

The bartender, joking with a cluster of men, does not notice

Corky as she moves up to the bar.

The bartender glances over.

Corky eyes the men, who stare into their drinks.

The bartender says nothing as he puts the drinks in front of

her.

Corky heads for her table, ignoring the whispers and snickers.

Corky and Violet, the only women in the room, sit close

together at a far corner table.

Violet's voice is hushed.

She glances around the room; a man at the bar smiles at her.

Two men sit down near them, laughing.

Violet stares at her glass, at the melting ice.

She downs the last of her drink.

She turns to Corky.

Corky stares at her, knowing where this is going.  She glances

around the crowded bar.

EXT.  ALLEY - NIGHT

Corky's truck sits in a gravel parking lot.

INT.  CORKY'S TRUCK - DAY

Through the back window of the truck, Violet and Corky are

silhouettes against the street light.

Corky quietly swallows that pill.  It begins to rain.

Violet nods.

She knows Violet is challenging her.

Violet stares, her face poker-blank.

She moves closer to Violet, the sound of the rain beating

against the metal cab.

She stops.

They are close enough to kiss.

Corky pulls back.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Violet springs from the couch as the front door crashes open,

Caesar charging in.  He is doubled over, clutching something

to his stomach.

He rushes to the kitchen, dumping a bloody bundle into the

double sink.  There is blood everywhere, smeared up and down

Caesar's front.

Violet takes a step toward him, unsure of what has happened.

He pulls a bottle of whiskey and a glass from the cupboard.

He pours himeslf a shot, belting it back.

He begins unbuttoning the bloody shirt.

He throws down another shot.

He tears open the bloody bag, wet money bricks spilling out.

Caesar is exasperated.

He looks at the pile of bloody money.

Searching through a sink cabinet, he can't find what he needs.

Caesar walks down the ball to the bathroom.  Violet's eyes

do not move from the pile of money.

Corky seems to come from nowhere.  She whispers.

Violet nods.

INT.  CLOSET - NIGHT

Corky's hands twitch, and then flex against the ropes that

bind them.

A reflex echoes through her body, muscles spasm and limbs

jerk against their bonds.

As if in a dream, she struggles, trying to get free, fighting

toward the edge of consciousness until --

She seems to succumb, slipping back into stillness.

We move toward her face, her closed eyes as we again hear

the voices in her head.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Violet is on the bed, Corky at the window.

She turns to Violet.

She begins to focus on the memory.

Moving in on her face.

Benjamin Franklin's face on a hundred-dollar bill.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Franklin's face rotates as we pull back, seeing rows of bills

carefully paper-clipped to lines of string.

Eyes filled with green, Violet turns inside the laundry lines

of money until she sees Caesar.

Wearing his undershirt, he is across the room standing at

the ironing board, ironing every single bill.

He seems to have one eye on her, one eye on his work.

He sprays starch across several bills and presses the steaming

iron to them.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Violet is in bed, unable to sleep, listening to the machine-

shuffle of Caesar's bill counter.

We move past her, floating toward the wall.

INT.  OFFICE - NIGHT

We drift across Caesar's desk, past bricks of bound bills,

as Caesar folds the paper tape around another stack.

He hits the counter again and we hear the sound, now very

loud as hundreds blur by, fluttering beneath us.

The sound rolls into thunder --

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

That seems to shake the apartment.

INT.  OFFICE - DAY

Violet cautiously enters the office with a cup of coffee.

Working furiously at the computer, Caesar jumps when he sees

her, bloodshot eyes animal-wide.

He checks his watch as she sets the coffee in front of him.

He nods automatically, back in his work, as she sees the

briefcase filled with perfect rows of hundreds.

We see the open top with its silver flip-over locks.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Violet is trying to remember.

Corky begins to pace, ordering the information in her head.

Violet suddenly feels that she has made a mistake.

Corky covers her mouth.

Eyes wide, she paces, pulling at her lip, mumbling.

Suddenly she freezes as it clicks into place.  She looks at

Violet.

She's pacing again.

Something occurs to Corky.

Corky smiles, the wheels rolling.

She turns from the window and gets onto the bed.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - DAY

Violet is getting dressed, lining her lips with lip-pencil.

As she works on her face, we see the room behind her and the

discarded dresses scattered about.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Corky breaks her thought-train.

INT.  OFFICE - DAY

Caesar again checks his watch.

The watch reads 6:10.  Caesar rubs his eyes, his temples.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - DAY

Violet is at the bar in a sexy dress and high heels.

He laughs as Violet smiles, handing him an enormous drink.

He takes the drink.

She gives him a woman's sympathy pout; he knows what it,

loves it anyway.

Smiling, he slides his hand down over her ass.

She smiles and waits for the kiss she knows is coming.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Both women are starting to feel it, to believe it.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT

Corky sits on the floor of the dark apartment.  She has taken

off her boots, which are beside her.

Through the wall we can hear the shower.

Corky opens a thin box filled with needle-thin lock picks.

She selects several and slips them into her multi-pierced

ears like earrings.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

In slow motion, Caesar drops the shower plunger and water

chokes from the faucet.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Behind the bar, Violet pulls out the bottle of Glenlivet.

Violet steps out from the bar, her eyes on the bedroom, when

the bottle slips from her hands.

We watch it slowly fall --

Caesar yells from the bathroom.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Hearing Caesar, Corky gets up, moving quietly toward the

door.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Caesar enters, a towel wrapped around him, hair still

dripping.

Violet looks terribly upset as she begins to clean up.

Caesar realizing what happened.

He rushes at her.

She stands up.

She turns him back toward the bedroom.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

Violet opens her door, stepping into the hall where Corky is

waiting.

They pass each other in silence, Violet stepping out as Corky

slips in.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Caesar is working intensely on his fingernails.  We glide

over a set of gleaming metal manicure tools.  We see his

hand as he delicately applies a coat of clear polish to a

nail.

Through the open door, we see Corky moving almost casually

across the living room.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Corky is looking for something.

She finds a black duffel bag from one of her tool buckets.

Corky slips her hand in between the mattress and box spring,

pulling out a gun.

She tosses the gun on the bed.

INT.  OFFICE - NIGHT

The black case is lying on the desk, locked shut.  Corky

moves around the desk, dropping down behind it.

From her earlobe, she chooses the right pick, sliding out

the silver tool.

It takes only a second and the first lock pops open.

She is working on the other lock when the door is pushed

open and Caesar walks in.

Corky drops down, grasping for her gun --

As Caesar, wearing only underwear, enters.  He blows on the

drying polish on his fingernails before delicately selecting

a suit from his closet.

The gun ready, Corky, pressed against the desk, waits until

he leaves.

She lets her breath out, then pops the second lock, unzips

the black duffel bag and quickly empties the case, filling

the bag with fat money bricks.

Finished, she zips up the bag and looks about.

Sbe sees a stack of newspapers hidden near the desk.

She fills the case, then closes it.

She thumbs the locks shut and they snap, unnaturally loud,

into place.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

They are both on the bed.

Their faces are close, eyes still trying to read each other.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The door bursts open.  Violet enters quickly, carrying a

bottle in a thin brown bag.

Caesar wanders out, tightening his tie.  She looks at her

watch.

He smiles, grabbing the bottle from her.

Caesar turns.

She watches him, her words caving in around him.

Violet thinks.

His eyes dart.  His forehead beads with sweat.  He turns

toward the office.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Violet is staring at Corky's mouth.

She pauses.

INT.  OFFICE - NIGHT

Caesar stands over the desk, afraid to open the case.

INT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

She looks dead at Violet.

INT.  OFFICE - NIGHT

The key turns and the locks pop.  When Caesar sees the

newspaper, the whole world begins to spin.

His chest collapses onto itself while his hands ball into

fists.

She moves around the side of the desk and sees the newspaper.

He slams the case shut, his head hanging down.

After a moment he looks at her, like a little boy about to

cry.

He seems ready to scream but can't say anything.

The name is like water hitting hot oil.

He starts punching the desk, each blow harder than the last.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky can hear him pounding.  She looks down and smiles.

Between her legs is the open bag stuffed with money.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar is choking on his own rage.

He starts to pound his fists against his own head.

He grabs hold of his chair, using it to support himself

She watches him, his body rocking against the chair.

The words squeeze out like tears.

He swings the swivel chair over his head and smashes it down

on the desk.  Again and again.

The chair falls and he stands alone, covering his face to

hide his tears.

She goes to hold him.

He backs into the corner of the room.

Violet watches him trying to wipe the tears and sweat from

his face.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Violet enters, closing the door quietly behind her.  She

looks at the wall, then goes to the bed and picks up the

phone.

As she dials, we move along the phone cord, following it

down to the jack in the wall.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

We move out from another jack, following a different cord.

Corky is sitting with her back to the wall.  The black phone

beside her barely rings once before she answers.

She waits, saying nothing.

INT.  BEDROOM NIGHT

Violet whispers, her hand cupped over the mouthpiece.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Violet hears him.

She hangs up quickly just as Caesar bursts in.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky presses against the wall, trying to hear.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar is pacing.

She throws open her closet.

She grabs a suitcase from under the bed.

She starts yanking the dresses from the closet.

She turns and sees that he is holding a gun.

Now it is her turn to feel the world spin.

She slaps him hard.  He stares at her.

He moves past her, picks up the dresses and returns them to

the closet.

He shuts the closet.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Caesar is at the bar, drinking the Scotch.  The gun in front

of him.  Across the room, Violet sits, staring holes through

him.

They wait in silence.

Violet says nothing.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

In the dark, Corky sits, her face, her posture very similar

to Violet's.

She is concentrating, her mind somewhere else, when the door

buzzer sounds.

She turns her head and hears Caesar faintly answering the

intercom.

Corky stands just as --

INT. CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Violet stands.

Caesar faces her for a moment, then shoves the gun into his

belt behind his back.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky watches through the door peep as three men pass by.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

There is a knock and Caesar opens the door.

GINO MARZZONE is an old Italian whose face is a mask of

irritated indifference.

ROY, his enormous driver, is behind him.

Caesar smiles, greeting them in Italian with open arms.

Johnnie is the last inside.  He has tape over his broken

nose.  He smiles and hugs Caesar.

He smiles again, patting him on the shoulder, then throwing

a fake punch.

Caesar sees Gino with his bright Italian smile, flattering

Violet, kissing her.

As he bends to kiss her hand, she sees Caesar watching them.

This makes Violet very uncomfortable.

Caesar's hand shakes as he pours Gino's Scotch.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Pacing in her socks, Corky tries to think through several

possible situations.  She stops, staring at the bag of money.

The idea of its sitting out in the open suddenly bothers

her.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar hands Violet and Johnnie a drink.  He stares at her.

She stares back.

Caesar watches Johnnie, suspecting everything he does.

Johnnie reaches into his pocket and takes out a cellular

phone.

Each man sits on either side of Gino.

Caesar sees Johnnie smiling at him, but when Gino turns, the

smile disappears.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky drops a hefty bag, knotted tight, into an open five-

gallon bucket of paint.

As she picks up a paint stick, we see a second bag beside

another bucket.

She pushes the first bag down until it disappears, enveloped

by the milk-white liquid.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar puts the briefcase onto the coffee table.

Gino looks up at Caesar, very serious, with his hand on the

case.

He looks dead at Johnnie.

Caesar shakes his head.

Gino throws down the last of the Scotch.

Gino checks his watch, shouting in Italian.  Johnnie shouts

back until Gino throws up his hands, refusing to listen.

He gestures to his empty glass, then folds his arms, leaning

back.  Caesar gets the bottle.

Johnnie whistles as Caesar pours Gino another Scotch.

In Italian tells him to shut up.

Caesar sees it so clearly now.

He pushes the case toward him.

Johnnie stares at him, feeling that something is very wrong.

He tries but it's locked.

Caesar smiles and tosses the key onto the table.

He reaches for the key.  Caesar stands up and gives Violet

his drink.

He can see the fear on her face as she goes to the bar.

Time drips.

The key turns.  One lock pops.

Then the other.

Tbe case opens like a scream and Johnnie sees the newspaper.

Before anybody can move, Caesar whips around with his gun.

Roy jumps off his stool, his drink crashing to the floor.

Nobody can believe what is happening.

Caesar levels the gun.

He stands up.

He does.

She doesn't know what to say.

Boom!  Caesar blows a hole in the couch right between

Johnnie's legs.  Johnnie screams.

Gino jumps up.

He starts walking toward Caesar.  Roy moves around for a

good angle.

He backs up as Gino walks straight to him.

He reaches up and takes bold of the barrel.  Caesar looks

resigned as he shuts his eyes.

Close on Gino's hand holding the gun barrel as --

Caesar fires.

From behind the gun we watch Gino's grip yanked free, time

melting away as he falls, blood bubbling from his chest, his

eyes wide in disbelief.

His body hits the floor and the room erupts.

Roy dives, drawing his gun as Caesar continues to fire,

pumping the trigger.

Violet drops behind the bar as Jobnnie screams, falling

towards his father.

Blood spurts from Roy as two bullets hit, his gun clattering

and sliding across the floor.

Johnnie lunges at Caesar as Caesar turns and fires, hitting

Johnnie everywhere; blood and meat spray and speckle

everything around him.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

The gun continues to fire as Corky clutches the phone,

whispering.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Crunched down behind the bar, Violet listens to the only

sound, repeating in the unnatural quiet:

Click.  Click.

Click.

Rising, she peers over the edge of the bar.

Caesar is standing in the aftermath.  His gun is still aimed

at Johnnie as he pulls the trigger over and over.

The bodies are still, blood silently pooling around them.

Blinking the sweat from his eyes, Caesar sees Violet.

He looks down at Jobnnie, hate rising like bile.

Kicking the body, be causes a series of sickening wet noises.

He stops, panting, unable to catch his breath.  Violet is

afraid to even look at him.

Blood creeps along the edge of the floorboards.

Caesar tries to clear his head, mopping the sweat from his

face.  He bends down and starts searching Johnnie's pockets.

He finds his keys.

Lost in thought, he goes to Gino.  Throwing open the coat,

he sees the airplane ticket.  There is a bullet hole in it.

He checks the times and then his watch.

He smiles.

He picks up Roy's gun and stuffs it in his belt.

In the distance, the wail of a police siren can be heard.

EXT.  PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Through the window they see a squad car, lights blaring,

roll up in front of the building.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

He turns back to the carnage.

Caesar flies into action.

Grunting, he hauls Gino's body up, drags it to the bathroom

and throws it into the tub.  He returns for Johnnie's body.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Standing near the bathroom, Corky hears the metal echo of

the tub.  Looking at her tub, she imagines what he is doing.

Through the wall, she hears the door buzzer.

INT. CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The buzzer sounds again as Violet sees him lift Roy's body.

He heads back to the bathroom, dropping Roy onto the other

two.

The three bloody bodies fill the tub.

We see Johnnie's arm hanging over the edge as Caesar snaps

the shower curtain around, hiding them.

She cuts them off using the intercom.

Over her shoulder she sees Caesar moving the furniture,

clearing the area around the heavy bloodstains.

Violet sees Caesar hurry to his office.

INT.  OFFICE - NIGHT

Caesar seizes the beautiful oriental rug in his office and

yanks it up, overturning furniture.  Dragging it out, he

slams the door behind him.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Violet looks at Caesar, who is working with the calm, single-

minded focus of a machine.

She buzzes them in as Caesar throws the rug like someone

making a bed, letting it fall to the floor and cover most of

the blood.

INT.  LOBBY - NIGHT

The cops are waiting for the elevator.  After a moment, the

door slides open.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Violet moves away from the intercom as Caesar begins arranging

the furniture on the rug.

His words push her to the bathroom.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Stuffing a towel into the sink, she turns on the water.  She

does not even look at the shower curtain.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

The elevator opens and the cops step out.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar grabs the television remote, hits "on" and jacks the

volume until it is obviously loud.

Violet returns and he snatches the towel from her.

INT.  HALL

As the two cops walk down the hall, they hear the television.

They look at each other, already knowing what happened.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Like a maniac, Caesar wipes at any blood still visible until

there is a knock on the door.  He grabs Violet by the arm.

She nods.

There is another knock, much louder.

Violet goes to the door as Caesar rips off his blood-soaked

jacket and shirt.

He drops down behind the bar Leaving the chain on, Violet

opens the door.  Tbe cops smile.

Crouching, Caesar wipes vigorously at the blood on his hands

and face.

Violet opens the door.

Caesar crams the bloody wad under the bar sink.

Just as the cops enter the living room, Caesar stands, looking

comfortable in no shirt, with ice cubes in his hands.

He plunks the ice into a glass and walks from behind the bar

Caesar turns his head.

Tbe cops look at each other again.

Wiping his wet hand on his pants, Caesar shakes hands with

each of them.

They smile at Violet as Caesar puts his arm around her.

Violet sees the gun wedged in the back of his belt.

He looks at Violet.

Violet walks across the rug and turns off the TV.

Caesar's face tightens.

He heads for the john.

Violet watches Caesar back up to the bar, moving behind it.

INT.  BATHROOM NIGHT

Cop #2 enters, walking right past the shower curtain.  We

hear his sigh as he starts to piss.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Cop #1 walks onto the rug, looking around, turning to Violet.

She stares at his shoes on the rug.

Watching everything, Caesar takes a sip of his drink.  He

slips his gun out and holds it at his side.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

There is a bulge in the shower curtain where we imagine

Johnnie's arm is hanging.

Slowly we slide down to the bottom edge of the plastic

curtain, where a drip of blood forms and --

Plips into a small red spot on the white tile floor.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Close on the heel of the cop's black shoe, where we can almost

see the blood seeping up through the oriental rug.

Violet nods.

Everyone turns when Cop #2 busts out of the bathroom.

Cop #1 walks across the rug to the hardwood floor.  He turns

to Caesar.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky hears the cop say goodbye to Violet.  The door closes.

She isn't sure what she should do.

Over her shoulder, she notes the bucket of paint.  She lets

the cops leave.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar puts on a new shirt, the gun stuffed in his pants.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky rises at the sound of Caesar's door closing.

We track her along the wall to the foyer as she follows the

faint sounds of Caesar and Violet's footsteps.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

As they pass by, Violet looks up to the door of the empty

apartment, straight at the peephole.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT Corky is pressed against the door, eye

at the peephole.

She sees that Violet is afraid as the two women seem to speak

to each other with their eyes.

EXT.  PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Caesar is on his knees, searching under the seats of Johnnie's

Mercedes.  Unable to find the money, he is ready to snap.

From the main doors, Corky slips out of the building.  Hiding

behind a column, she sees Violet and Caesar across the lot.

Corky moves behind the parked cars, the gun squeezed in her

hand.

Violet edges away, on the verge of running, looking toward

the busy street.

Standing, Caesar pounds on the car.

Ignoring her, be tries to think.

Still too far from them to do anytbing, Corky sees Caesar

slam the trunk.

Violet looks around the lot, looking for some way out.

Corky can only watch as Violet gets in and the car rips away.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Alone, Corky stands over the bucket of paint.  She kicks it

with her boot-toe.

She sighs, wondering how long she can make herself wait.

EXT.  JOHNNIE'S BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

The BMW is parked in front.

INT.JOHNNIE'S BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

Close on Caesar, as he rakes his sweaty hair back, his face

knotted in torment.

He turns as if he just came in through the front door.

We see Johnnie's home has been laid to waste.  The furniture

is broken, cushions split open, pictures shattered, holes

punched in the drywall -- even the carpeting has been torn

up.

Caesar doesn't look much better.

Huddled in a corner, Violet watches him.

Caesar moves from the front door, trying to get into Johnnie's

head.

He takes a couple of steps into the room.

He looks at a closet.  It's gutted, searched 10 times already.

A couple more uneasy steps and he looks at a large over-turned

rolltop desk.

He starts looking around the room as if he is seeing for the

first time that it is destroyed.  He is near the breaking

point.

His voice cracks.  There is nowhere else to look.

He explodes.  A terra cotta lamp sails across the room.

He smashes his forehead into the wall, denting the drywall.

He holds his head, sinking to the ground.

She sits next to him, putting a hand lightly on his shoulder.

He knows what he has to do.  Digging through the debris, he

finds the phone.

Already dialing, he does not answer

Ceaar takes a deep breath, mustering composure.

Caesar looks at Violet.

He hangs up.

INT. CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar drags himself in.  Violet closes the door behind them.

Caesar moves into the room where it happened.  He is dizzy

and confused and does not want to be here.

Violet turns him around.

She turns him toward the bathroom.  He nods.

Nodding, he heads for the kitchen.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Violet enters and goes straight for the phone.  She looks at

the blank wall as she dials.

The phone rings.

When Corky answers, Violet almost collapses with relief.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

A box of Hefty bags tucked under his arm, a coil of

clothesline in his hand, Caesar searches through several

cabinets.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Violet glances at the door.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky falls against the wall.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

Mumbling to himself, Caesar walks out of the kitchen, heading

for the bedroom.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Violet reaches out and touches the wall, as if she were

touching Corky.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky turns to the wall.

Her fingers gently touch the wall as we travel up and over,

where we see they are actually touching the wall in the exact

same place.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Suddenly, Violet hears Caesar.

As he opens the door, she slams down the phone.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

The line cuts off.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Fear and panic paralyze Violet as Caesar drops everything,

grabbing for his gun.

He levels the gun at her.

She stands and be rushes at her, grabbing her by the throat.

She shakes her head and he throws her on the bed.  The gun

aimed at her, he picks up the phone and --

Hits the redial.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Unsure of what happened, Corky hears the phone ring and

answers it on reflex.

Listening, she waits.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Caesar listens, waiting as long as he can.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky hangs up, jumping away from the wall.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Caesar hits the redial again.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Panicking, Corkydoesn't answer it, but as it rings very loud

in the empty apartment, she realizes her mistake.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Turning slowly toward the wall, Caesar hears the phone ringing

in the empty apartment.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Corky rips the plug out of the wall.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

The line goes dead.

She tries to get away, but he grabs her and slaps her to the

ground.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT

Corky hears Violet scream and that does it.  Gun in hand,

she flies at the door.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

The door to the empty apartment slams shut and Caesar, hearing

it, starts to run --

But Violet reaches out, catching his ankle, sending him

crashing to the dresser.

INT HALL - NIGHT

The door to Caesar's apartment is locked.  Corky falls to

one knee, whipping two lock picks from her earlobe.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Caesar raises the gun to pistol-whip Violet and she screams.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

Working the lock, Corky hears Violet's scream cut off.

She feels the tumblers click, and rotates the cylinder.

A shadow stirs under the crack of the door as she hears

something that sounds like footsteps.  Corky freezes.

Corky presses down low against the door beneath the peephole.

She can almost feel Caesar beyond the door, but grits her

teeth and turns the doorknob.

INT.  APARTMENT - NIGHT

The door cracks open and Corky slips in, gun-first.  As she

moves into the room, we see Caesar behind her.

He puts his gun to her head.

Corky hesitates.

She does.

Rising from her crouch, she turns and he recognizes her.

He starts to laugh when she strikes --

Knocking the gun, she punches him, slamming him back against

the door as --

She twists, diving, grabbing her gun, just as --

He steps and kicks her full in the face.

INT.  CLOSET - NIGHT

Still unconscious, Corky's head jerks, reacting to the kick.

We see the dried blood caked to her check where his kick

split the skin.  She is again swimming toward consciousness.

We hear water splash, her face flinching as we move closer,

the sounds and voices echoing.

We hear Caesar slapping her.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Corky's face is dripping with water as her eyes slowly blink

open.

Coming into focus is Caesar, standing over her with an empty

glass in one hand.

Except for the gag, she is bound as we have seen her bound

in the closet.

Caesar yanks out his gun and puts it to her head.

She sees Violet on the bed, also bound hand and foot.

The gun digs into her cheek.

He thumbs back the hammer.

He aims the gun at Violet.

He fires and she jumps as the bullet punches through the

wall behind her.

His point made, he puts the gun back to Corky's head.

Blood temperature rising again, Caesar pulls the gun back

and slaps her with it.

He rushes at her, grabbing a fistful of her hair.

He looks at Corky.

He looks at her as if unable to recognize her

He shoves her down.

He stomps around the room.

He throws open the closet.

He seems to believe what he is saying.

He doesn't want to hear this.

He slaps her.

He leans closer.

He storms out of the room.

Corky looks up at Violet.

She pulls at the ropes as Violet slides off the bed.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

Caesar throws open the broom closet and grabs the clippers

that Mickey used to cut off Shelly's finger.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

The two women are back-to-back, fingers working at each

other's knots when Caesar bursts into the room.

Grabbing Corky by the boots, he drags her and flips her so

that she can now see Violet.

He drops down onto Violet putting the clippers in front of

her face.

Her eyes widen with terror.  She starts to scream when he

stuffs a towel in her mouth.

Laying against Violet, he turns to Corky.

He takes hold of Violet's pinky finger, stretching it out.

He puts the finger between the blades.

Corky sees Violet thrashing helplessly.  She has no choice.

Her mouth opens as --

The door buzzer rings.

Caesar is distracted, trying to think who it could be.

He sees the phone, where he dropped it, lying off the hook.

The door buzzer rings again, more insistently.  Corky sees

him momentarily unnerved.

He looks back at her.

He starts to cut and Corky screams --

He stops, the door buzzing continuously.

As she speaks, the sound of the door buzzer changes.

He is not looking at her; listening, he realizes that Mickey

is buzzing the other apartments.

CAESAR stands as the buzzing stops.  He pulls out his gun

and aims it at Corky.

He cocks it.

His hand start to shake with ftustration.  He is beginning

to hate this woman more than he ever hated Johnnie.

Taking a deep breath, he eases back the hammer.

He kicks her again, snapping her head back.

After he leaves, Violet looks over and sees Corky lying

unconscious.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

Caesar tries to open the door to the empty apartment but it

is locked.

At the end of the hall, the elevator "dings." Just as the

door opens, Caesar jumps back into his apartment.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

His mind a racing blur, he locks the door and runs back to

the bedroom.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

With another towel, he gags Corky and drags her into the

closet.  In her pocket, he finds the key.

He closes the doors, then hangs up the phone.

Grunting, he hauls Violet up over his shoulder --

When there is a knock on the door.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Carrying Violet, he hurries to the kitchen, where he throws

Corky's gun into the freezer.  Mickey is banging on the door

as Caesar heads for the bathroom.

INT.  BATHROOM

Dropping Violet onto the floor, he reaches behind the curtain

and turns on the shower.

We hear the water hitting the bodies while Caesar starts

tearing off his clothes.

He picks up his gun.

She stares hard at him and his gun, then nods.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

We move toward the door as the lock clicks open.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Violet's hands are untied.  She pulls off the gag and the

ropes at her feet.

Naked, Caesar sticks his head under the shower spray, wetting

everything.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

Still dripping, Caesar walks into the room, a towel wrapped

around his waist, another towel in his hand.

Mickey and Lou are standing in the middle of the room.

Caesar jumps.

Caesar holds his chest, laying it on a bit thick.

He sees they both are holding their guns.

Mickey smiles, putting his gun away.

Behind the bar, he sets down the towel be was holding and we

see the gun hidden inside it.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Violet watches through a sliver of open door, her mind already

working.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Caesar is making the drinks.

Caesar hands him a drink.

Mickey smiles as he sips his drink.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Violet stands and goes to the shower curtain.  She reaches

in and turns off the water.  Steadying herself, she pulls

back the curtain, exposing the wet, bloody bodies.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Mickey is looking at the furniture.

The knot in Caesar's stomach tightens.

He laughs, and Lou laughs with him.

Caesar smiles feebly.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Violet has pulled up Johnnie's body and is digging through

his coat pockets, searching for something.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Mickey sees the briefcase still on the coffee table.

Caesar puts his hand inside the towel as Mickey walks across

the rug.

Talking to Lou, be picks up the case and walks back, somehwo

moving right between the wet spots.

He slaps the case up onto the bar.

He thumbs the latches but the case is still locked.

Caesar takes the smallest breath.

He pulls out a lock-pick and starts working the lock.  The

muscles in Caesar's forearm bulge as he tightly squeezes his

gun.

He is slipping toward that same desperate choice.  He is

going to attack when --

Across the room, the phone rings.

Everyone looks at it.

The phone is near the couch.  Caesar doesn't want to let go

of the gun.

The phone continues to ring.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Violet has Johnnie's cellular phone.

Watching through the cracked door, Violet sees Caesar cross

to answer the phone.

Caesar looks toward the bathroom.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Caesar's eyes light up.

Mickey jumps up.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Violet has her robe over her dress, wrapping her hair in a

towel, making sure the bruise on her forehead is hidden.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Out of the corner of his eye, he watches Violet come out of

the bathroom.

Mickey sees Violet.

Caesar hangs up.

Mick is already on the way.

Caesar sees Violet walking toward the kitchen.

She stops, looking straight at the freezer.

She turns to him.

She turns to the bathroom.

He grabs the briefcase.

INT.  CLOSET - NIGHT

Where Corky remains bound, still unconscious.  We hear the

name echo in her head.

Suddenly, her eyes blink open.

Her eyes blink again as she tries to focus.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Violet hands Mickey the keys for the car and the case.

He kisses her on the cheek.

Mickey and Lou leave.  Violet is staring at Caesar, standing

near the door.

In his right hand he is holding the other towel.  He smiles.

He drops the towel, raising the gun.

He smiles again.

INT.  CLOSET - NIGHT

Corky is wide awake, thrashing-mad, biting her gag, struggling

to get free.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Caesar pulls his pants on.

Caesar drags Violet througb the front door.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

The closet doors burst open as Corky fights her way out.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Caesar sees the buckets of paint.

He rips the lid from the nearest and kicks it over.  Paint

spills out across the floor.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Suddenly Corky stops; something has caught her eye.  We drop

down, focusing on what she is staring at --

The clippers.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

He kicks over the second bucket and the bag tumbles out with

the rushing flow of paint.

He turns to Violet, who is already running out the door.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

Violet turns down the hall, bare feet beating against the

floor.

Caesar slices out of the room behind her.

He aims the gun as she hurls her self into the emergency

door.

INT.  STAIRWELL - NIGHT

She flies, hands on the rail, spiraling down each flight as

he charges after her.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Straining, Corky's fingers curl around the handle of the

clippers.

INT.  LOBBY - NIGHT

Violet smashes through the door, but instead of turning to

the main doors, she runs straight for the elevators.

She pounds the button and waits.

She hears Caesar coming just as the elevator opens.

Caesar crashes out of the stair door, running toward the

exit.  When he doesn't see Violet, he turns to the sound of

the elevator --

And catches a glimpse of her as the doors close.

Taking a really deep breath, he throws open the door to the

stairs.

INT.  ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Violet takes Johnnie's cellular phone from the robe pocket

and dials a number.

Mickey answers on the car phone.

Whispering, she acts terrified.

She hangs up, eyes blazing.

INT.  STAIRWELL - NIGHT

Sweat pouring off him, Caesar climbs the stairs.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

The elevator opens, Violet bolts out.  She runs down the

hall, past the empty apartment, back to her door.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT - NIGHT

She rushes to the bedroom, where she finds the coils of cut

rope.

She looks at the wall separating the apartment.

INT.  HALL - NIGHT

Caesar half-falls out of the stair door, drenched with sweat.

INT.  EMPTY APARTMENT

Gun ready, Caesar throws open the door.

Spread out like a pond of milk is the spilled paint, but --

The money is gone.

Leading away from the white pool are boot prints and the

drip trail of the plastic bag.

The tracks lead to the bathroom.

Caesar kicks open the bathroom door and finds the bag of

money next to Corky's empty boots.

Over his shoulder we see Corky already swinging a massive

pipe wrench.

At the last second he is able to duck, falling to the ground

as --

The doorjamb splinters with a terrible metal crunch.

Before he can recover and shoot, she brings the wrench down

on his arm.

He screams as the gun hits the floor.

She kicks it, sending it skidding, hydroplaning across the

paint pool to the other side, leaving a jet trail of white

swirls and spirals on the wood floor.

They fight, Corky raining blows onto his back and flailing

arm until --

He catches her foot, flipping her as he clambers up.

Scrambling across the paint, slipping, crawling for the gun

when --

Violet bursts in, pointing the gun from the freezer.

Caesar, on hands and knees, looks at her, then at his gun

still out of reach.

Violet stands for long time, the gun trained carefully on

him as he rises from the floor.

Panting, Caesar watches her like a mad dog.

He smiles.

She glances down and sees the paint-covered gun.

He turns to the gun.

Violet fires --

The bullet hits Caesar in the shoulder, knocking him off

balance.  Another doubles him over as blood speckles the

pool of paint.

She empties the gun into him.  His body arcs back, falling,

splashing into the paint.

Caesar's blood bubbles out bright red against the glistening

white.

INT.  CAESAR'S APARTMENT - DAY

It is empty and clean.  In the bedroom, only a few hangers

are left dangling in the open closet.

EXT.  PARKING LOT - DAY

Mickey is standing with Violet, next to his Lincoln Town

Car.

Mickey nods.

She hugs him and he kisses her.  Then he gets in his car.

Violet watches him drive away and knows that she is free.

EXT.  CORKY'S APARTMENT

Corky sitting on stoop, patient, like a rock.

She looks up as she hears high heels, and smiles at --

Violet standing there, new outfit.

Corky stands in front of her.

Corky nods.

Violet nods.

Corky digs out alarm keys, aims, fires.  Violet turns, looks.

New truck.

Violet turns to Corky, eyebrow cocked.

Smiles, they get in.

INT.  TRUCK

Corky admires truck.

Lean for kiss, as dolly in.

Guns engine.

Zoom.

THE END

