1

2

afford to create custom street signs.)

Her voice thins to a high, strained breath. She is crying.

Brendan's eyes glance around the surrounding street. Emily

is crying again.

More crying noises.

1

hand came from the passenger window. The dialogue in the ending field scene was

changed to match, causing mass confusion for about half an hour on set.

Volkswagen headlights sits against the wall. Brendan enters,

leans on the wall beside him.

The Brain avoids Brendan's gaze.

A beat.

Across the parking lot a beautiful girl with dark long hair

kisses an football player.

Brad laughs heartily.

The Brain trots off. In the distance Brad and Laura laugh,

and he kisses her. Her hair blows in the wind.

EXT. LOCKER CAGE - DAY

Empty. Locker 239 is open, its door swinging gently in the

wind.

EXT. BACK OF GYM - DAY

Brendan sits against the massive building, flipping through

loose papers. He finds two photographs, one of Emily hugging

him, the other of Emily with a beautiful sharp-eyed girl at

a party, drinks in hand.

Sorting more papers, he finds a red card with a sequined

mask on the front. The bottom edge has been torn off.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

Sixth period has broke. Masses of students pile into busses.

EXT. SCHOOL THEATER - DAY

A huge chunk of brown building. Brendan strides towards it.

INT. SCHOOL THEATER - CONTINUOUS

Drama people sit on the floor facing the stage. Brendan

steps behind one, the sharp-eyed girl from the picture. She

holds a freshman boy's head in her lap. Pets it like a dog.

She looks back at Brendan, her face in shadow.

Kisses the freshman's forehead, purring.

The freshman sits up, looks to Kara like a spooked puppy.

The dog pops up again. Kara pulls him down and nuzzles his

ear.

1

trimmed back in the editing process for clarity. The author has threatened to write it as

a stand alone short story, but probably never will, so in a nutshell: when Brendan and

Emily were still an item she started hanging out with Jerr, a small time dealer. Brendan

didn't approve, so he partnered up with Jerr then ratted him out to Trueman. Emily

found out, and that led to their breakup on the field, which we see in a flashback.

He is gone.   Behind Kara, the play goes on.

INT. BACKSTAGE OF THEATER - CONTINUOUS

The play is seen in shadow-play through the backdrop.

Brendan slips in through an exit door, crosses the backstage

area and enters the dressing rooms.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Cramped and empty. Pictures of Kara with friends are stuck

in the mirror. Brendan roughly searches drawers, bags,

pockets... nothing. He stops. A red edge behind one of the

photos - the same red card with a mask on it, but whole.

Across the bottom in small print: "Halloween in January -

Call for DETAILS - 555-2394"

INT. BRENDAN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Brendan pulls a phone across his desk and dials the number

on the flyer.

Brendan hesitates.

He trails off.

A beat of silence.

A beat.

Brendan hangs up. He folds his hands under his chin and

stares at the phone, perfectly still. The clock on his desk

says 4:53.

7:37

Brendan at his desk, tapping away at Tetris.

8:30

The desk is empty, Tetris paused. A shower runs behind an

ajar door in the background.

1

Me," but the publishing rights proved too expensive (i.e. not free.) We chose the Gilbert

& Sullivan song, which besides being lovely was also in the public domain (i.e. free.)

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME

Brad Bramish, the jock who was kissing Laura in the parking

lot, sits slouched on the couch in a dense crowd. He holds a

cup and speaks much too loudly to a guy named Biff at his

elbow.

Brad hunches forward, his face swollen purple, yelling that

over and over. Tom steps in front of Brendan, blocking his

line of sight.

Brendan scans the rest of the room. His eyes catch on Laura,

leaning against a divan. Her bright, sharp eyes cut through

the room, straight into Brendan.

He wags his eyebrows at her.

She looks away quickly. Brendan turns back to Brad, still

shouting 'let me play'. Tom stands between them.

Brad falls silent. Most of the room follows suit. Tom turns

around. Brendan smiles good naturedly.

The room watches Brendan. Tom mumbles something and steps

aside. Brad stares at Brendan stupidly. Brendan flashes a

dopey grin and tips his glass.

He falls into awkward silence. Biff starts babbling.

Brendan looks at Brad, who is staring back at him.

Brendan then slowly drags his gaze over to Laura, staring at

him too, her eyes slightly amused. Brendan cocks an eyebrow.

The slightest hint of a smile takes the corner of her mouth,

and she wags her eyebrows once at him.

Brendan glances back at Brad, looking at Laura now, not

amused at all.

Brendan stands to go. Biff chatters on. Brad cuts him off.

INT. DARK ROOM

With a lit wet bar at one end. Brendan goes to the bar, puts

ice in a glass and cracks it with liquor.

Brendan pauses, glass touching his lips.

He downs half of it.

They stare at each other in silence. She studies his face.

The broken light of the bar makes her features seem liquid.

and slips out a sliding glass door.

He fills another glass with whiskey and cuts his with water.

EXT. BACK PATIO - NIGHT

Brendan joins Laura, hands her a drink. Suburban lights fill

the valley below. Laura sips her drink.

She sips more.

A few months. Could have helped himself

out by turning me in, but he took the

heat. He was a good guy. Solid.

Was he?

You knew him.

Yeah I did. So why are you here tonight?

I'm looking for Emily.

She wasn't invited.

She had an invitation.

Well like you said, I've got to work on

that. Em's been AWOL for a good month,

nobody's seen her.

I saw her yesterday.

Nearly nobody's seen her. So what did

she tell you?

Score 0 for finesse.

Listen, you're scratching at the wrong

door. I wasn't with Emily enough to know

details of what she was in, I just got

wind of the downfall, and I didn't get

any details of that, except that it was

bad. So now that we're showing some

cards...

If you haven't got a finger in Em's

troubles, why'd her name get me into

your rather exclusive party?

A long beat. Laura studies Brendan's face, then seems to

come to a decision.

The words hang in the air a moment. A look of recognition

from Brendan.

He sips his drink. A voice calls from the glass door.

Another girl. Laura flashes Brendan a look and goes to her.

They have quick, quiet words and the girl leaves. Laura

turns back to Brendan.

The moment she leaves Brendan runs across the lawn and hops

the fence, into the neighbor's yard.

EXT. SIDE OF HOUSE

Brendan runs to the edge of the neighboring house and peeks

around. Laura comes out the front door, cuts across the

lawn and sidewalk and trots out into the street. Brendan

begins to follow, but a noise from behind the fence stops

him - a match being struck.

Brendan creeps towards the fence and peers through a

splintered hole.

BRENDAN'S POV - THROUGH THE FENCE

A brightly lit window in the side of Brad's house, and

through the window the party.

A dark figure wearing a long coat and broad rimmed hat, all

inky black. The figure smokes a cigarette and watches the

party, absently stroking his cheek.

Brendan steps back - SNAP!   A twig.

The figure freezes. Then, making no noise at all, it spins

to face Brendan, a towering black form against the window.

The glowing cigarette falls to the grass.

A metallic glint, and a clicking sound not unlike a gun.

Brendan throws himself backwards onto the grass. A beat.

Through the hole the black of the figure's cloak whips away.

Brendan hesitates, then hops the fence.

EXT. SIDE OF BRAD'S HOUSE - SAME

Brendan lands on his feet. No black figure to be found.

The cigarette still smolders on the ground. Hand rolled,

plain paper.

Brendan gazes through the window, catching his breath. Then

he breaks the trance and creeps towards the street.

EXT. FRONT LAWN - NIGHT

Peeking around the house, Brendan sees Laura cut across the

lawn and trot into the street. Using parked cars as cover,

Brendan follows.

EXT. STREET

Between cars, Brendan sees a lanky kid in baggy jeans and

engineer boots with a clean shaven head leaning against a

black Mustang. Laura goes to him and speaks quickly.

The dark figure in the hat emerges from the shadows. Laura

says something to him. Grunting something angrily, he gets

in the car with the bald kid and peels off.

Laura turns and slowly walks towards the house.

When she is gone Brendan stands, throws a look back at the

house and walks off down the street, towards the guard gate.

EXT. BACK PATIO

The two drinks, where Brendan left them. Laura takes hers

and drains it. The suburban lights twinkle like stars.

EXT. CARROWS PARKING LOT - DAY

The sun rises over Carrows family restaurant, a squat

structure backed against the weedy edge of the runoff tunnel

ravine.

A banner from 1973 in the window - "Coffee and Pie oh my!"

A pack of six pale stoners slump against the rear dumpster.

Their beady eyes follow Brendan in sync as he approaches.

He goes to the nearest one.

Silence and blank stares. Brendan calmly moves to the next

stoner.

Brendan moves to the next one.

A thin head pokes from around the dumpster.

Brendan steps around the dumpster. Dode slumps against the

wall, thin and delicate in dusty black. Slivery eyes, pale

lips, muffled intelligence.

Brendan doesn't.

The 5 big stoners appear behind Brendan, threatening.   Dode

turns his head away to light a joint.

Brendan's fist slams into his face, sending the joint

spinning. Brendan slams Dode's frail frame against the

dumpster.

The 5 stoners stand in the exact same position, deer in the

headlights. One makes a half hearted motion to intervene.

Brendan slams Dode into the wall.

Brendan covers how shaken he is by this statement fairly

well. He drops Dode.

Brendan walks away.

When Brendan is a safe distance away the biggest stoner

shouts with conviction

EXT. SIDEWALK - CONTINUOUS

Brendan hides behind a tall clump of bushes.

A moment later Dode hustles away from Carrows. Brendan

follows.

EXT. STREET - EARLY MORNING

The sun is rising as Brendan tails Dode through the twisty

suburban streets.

Brendan takes cover as Dode stops by a white hatchback.

A girl gets out of the car and embraces Dode. Her wrist is

adorned with the same cheap plastic bracelets as the dead

girl's arm. Dode speaks quickly to her, she nods and speaks

back. He hands her a slip of paper, which she tucks into a

brightly colored address book and slips in her jacket

pocket. They embrace again, Dode walks off and the girl gets

in her car.

Brendan stumbles after the car, but it is quickly gone. He

watches it go, then follows Dode back towards school.

EXT. SCHOOL THEATER - MORNING

Dode slumps into the front door of the brown building.

Brendan watches him from a distance, eyes thoughtful. After

a beat he turns and walks off into the thickening crowds of

students.

FADE UP

EXT. BACK OF SCHOOL - MIDDAY

Brendan eats lunch alone on a concrete wall beside a long,

empty utility road behind the school.

Reclining on the wall, reading "Lord of the Flies". He

raises his eyes, and sits up suddenly.

Off in the distance on the utility road a tiny figure

approaches, stumbling. Brendan jumps and hits the ground

running towards the figure.

Meet the girl with cheap bracelets, the girl Dode spoke to,

the dead girl, Emily. He catches her just as she stumbles

and falls and carries her into the shade of a covered

hallway.

EXT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Emily and Brendan sit in silence. She is very pretty, but

she looks bad. Too much makeup, not enough sleep. She

sniffles, speaks to her shoes.

She taps her shoes together lightly, eyes fixed on them.

She turns her weak eyes to Brendan for the first time.     His

stare is unwavering, searching. She pushes on.

She looks back at her shoes.

A beat. She taps her clogs. One has a hole worn through the

sole. Her face contorts, seizes up, and she is sobbing.

She buries her face in his shoulder. He has a hard time

speaking.

1

a location change. The degree to which the lack of classroom time in the film has been

commented on has always bemused the author, who cannot for the life of him

remember a single interesting thing that happened in a classroom in high school.

Brendan studies the symbol.

INT. BRENDAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sparsely furnished. Brendan plays Tetris on his computer,

staring off into space. His mom's voice calls "Good night"

and the hallway light turns off.

10:30 by the clock radio on Brendan's nightstand. The slip

of paper rests beside it. Brendan lies in bed, staring at

the symbol on the paper. His eyes tense.

THE SYMBOL

Growing larger, burning with a searing intensity, then

folding into darkness. Water rushes overhead, over concrete,

concrete with a hole in it -- the runoff tunnel, just for an

instant, then back underwater, screaming. Brendan choking,

screaming, plunging upwards. A woman with no face falls from

the darkness and kisses him, her long hair sweeping around

him then pulling away. As the last strands slide off his

face he wakes up with a start.

The clock says 3:46. Brendan drips with sweat, breathing

raggedly. He takes the paper and a pencil from the

nightstand and shades the symbol to look like this:

FLASH CUT - The runoff tunnel, lining up perfectly with the

now shaded symbol.

BACK TO BRENDAN

His eyes turn uneasy as he removes his glasses and clicks

off the light.

EXT. BRENDAN'S HOUSE - DAWN

Brendan walks off into the hazy pre-dawn light.

EXT. EDGE OF RAVINE

Brendan stops at a high wall of weeds, listening to the low

gurgle of moving water. Slowly, robotically he pushes

through.

EMILY'S BODY

Face down, bobbing gently in shallow water. Bluish white.

Red foam clings to her.

EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL

Silently, as if lowered by a string Brendan sinks down,

squatting in the mud. His lungs empty in one choppy breath.

He pulls his glasses off sluggishly.

EMILY'S ARM

Lifeless, pale.

BRENDAN'S FACE

A contorted, frozen mask, eyes wet.

EMILY'S HAIR

Stringy, flowing gently in the water.

BRENDAN'S EYES

Dazed, drifting... then suddenly snapping to attention.

A noise. From the tunnel.

Brendan freezes. The inky blackness of the tunnel mouth

opens like a vacuum... silent, but then -

The scrape of a shoe against concrete, then echoing

footsteps running away.

Brendan springs like a cat, sprinting into the tunnel.

INT. TUNNEL

Nearly pitch black. 2 sets of running footfalls. Brendan is

chasing, running full speed into the blackness, heart

pounding - we almost don't notice that Brendan's are now the

only footfalls.

Brendan notices. He stops. Silence in the darkness, except

for Brendan's breath... and someone near...

SLAM! Brendan takes a fist in the cheek and goes down. An

inky black figure steps from the shadows and kicks him in

the stomach. Brendan curls on the ground, the figure over

him.

The figure runs off. Brendan raises his head painfully - the

figure is silhouetted briefly against the distant bright end

of the tunnel, then is gone.

EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL - EARLY MORNING

Emily's body is still there. Brendan crawls out of the

tunnel and collapses in the shallow water, beside the body.

He rests his head on his arm, eyes on Em's hair.

EXT. CAMPUS - EARLY MORNING

Cold and barren, nearly empty. Brendan limps across the

barren lawns.

EXT. PHONE BOOTHS

A line of phone booths on campus. Brendan nearly collapses

against one. He dials, still in a stupor.

Brendan stares into space, eyes burning

Brendan hangs up.

EXT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

Early morning mist below a squat brick building.

INT. LIBRARY

Warmly lit, sheltering the few souls scattered here and

there at tables. The Brain sits at one of them reading an

impossibly large book. He watches curiously as Brendan

approaches him.

Brendan falls into a chair. The Brain looks him over.

Brendan breathes out softly.

Brendan takes a long moment. He stares down at his glasses,

wet with condensation.

Brendan rubs his forehead.

Brendan cleans his glasses. He looks Brain in the eye, and

his mannerisms come back into focus.

1

written for. Between when I wrote the script and when we shot it, however, the school

expanded and built portable classrooms on the basketball field, and so we reluctantly

moved these scenes to the football field.

1

1

(Dode) creeping away from the top of the tunnel, causing the pebble described on page

1 to plink into the water.

1

was neither a druggie nor `real trash', but was a great guy who simply had a very cool

sounding name. He is now (the author was horrified to learn) practicing law.

1

production.

Brendan grabs the pack of cigarettes.

Kara snaps her head towards him, a flash of anger. She

catches herself and smiles cooly.

Angry again, Kara snatches the pack from him.

He turns and walks away.

At the stage door, not slowing.

Through the door and into the theater.

INT. BACKSTAGE OF THEATER - CONTINUOUS

He spins to see Kara's face just before the door closes.

She's worried.

EXT. CROWDED SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY

The Brain walks out of a classroom and Brendan swings behind

him.

The Brain turns and Brendan's gone.

EXT. PARKING LOT - LUNCH

Brendan wanders through the thick lunchtime crowd towards a

cluster of 3 or 4 flashy luxury cars set aside at the far

end of the lot.

Brad Bramish sits slouched in the front seat of his

convertible, front door open. A small crowd hangs about

Brad, his crony Biff at his elbow.

Brendan scans the rest of the cars. His eyes catch on Laura

Dannon sitting in another convertible, off to the side. Her

bright eyes cut through the crowd, straight into Brendan.

He wags his eyebrows at her. She looks away. Brendan walks

into Brad's direct line of view and obviously leans against

one of the cars.

A few snickers around the crowd, but nowhere near Brad.

Brendan smiles slightly, and very deliberately crosses his

legs. Brad's face tenses.

Brad says 'who else?' by lifting his arms.

Brendan stands and walks off. Brad follows and the rest of

the crowd trails after him.

He leads them behind a parked VW van and turns to face Brad.

People gather around in a wide circle.

Brendan pulls his jacket off as Brad hangs back, mumbling.

Laura pulls up in her convertible, behind Brad, watching.

In the next moment Brendan cuts Brad off by putting his fist

in his face.

Brad grunts but doesn't lose ground. Brendan throws his

short stocky frame into Brad's larger one and tenderizes his

midsection with jabs.

Brad tags Brendan in the ribs, then smacks the palm of his

hand into Brendan's face, shoving him back onto the

pavement.

He comes at Brendan with his big fists clenched.

Brendan kicks Brad full force in the shins.

Brad tumbles, and Brendan comes up fast, connecting hard

with the point of Brad's chin. Brad gets his balance fast,

and before Brendan can throw another he throws one himself,

then another, both into Brendan's stomach. Brendan pulls

back and kicks Brad's shin where he had kicked it before.

Brad roars and hits Brendan very hard in the face.

Brendan bounces back like a rubber ball and throws his

weight into a square punch right into Brad's nose.

The sound of eggs breaking, and Brad falls backwards like a

board.

He stays down, holding his face.

Brendan staggers back, breathing hard, and looks up at the

small crowd. Some stare at Brendan, some at Brad, but nobody

seems about to do anything. Brendan runs his sleeve over his

face and walks unsteadily off, pushing past the last few

people rushing over.

He throws a last look at Laura, who meets his gaze and

drives off.

EXT. SCHOOL PARKING LOT SIDEWALK - CONTINUOUS

Brendan walks away from the lot, towards the school. Laura

pulls up beside him in her car.

Brendan ignores her and b-lines for the school. Laura brakes

hard, parking by the curb.

EXT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Brendan limps down the hallway.    Laura appears behind him,

trotting to catch up.

Silence behind him. He stops, turns wearily. She looks

genuinely hurt.

He turns and walks away. She doesn't follow.

EXT. SCHOOL PAYPHONE - AFTERNOON

Brendan slumps against it, receiver to his ear, licking a

bruised lip. He wears dark glasses.

Brendan hangs up and turns sluggishly.

A lanky kid with a short shaved head and engineer boots

punches him in the face.

Brendan hits the pavement. The lanky kid is over him in a

split second, beating his face and body with short, heavy

blows.

Flashes of the lanky kid - a shiny scar shaped like a thin

triangle runs down the side of his face.

After a brief silent thrashing the kid walks off with

several other blurry figures. A car peels out and roars off

O.S.

Brendan lies still. The class bell rings, very distant. Legs

criss cross before his eyes, each blurring the world a bit

more until it is completely smeared.

INT. OFFICE

Brendan sits with an ice pack against his head in a tiny

office. A man in his early thirties behind a wood colored

desk and name plate, "GARY TRUEMAN, ASSISTANT VICE

PRINCIPAL" plays with a pencil.

Trueman trains a good natured dubious eye on Brendan.

Brendan doesn't react.

Brendan stands to go.

Trueman bites a thumbnail.

EXT. ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AFTERNOON

Gary Trueman throws Brendan out.

Brendan glances around, and limps off.

EXT. CARROWS PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON

No stoners, no Dode. Brendan breathes uneasily.

EXT. PAYPHONE BY CARROWS - AFTERNOON

Brendan leans against it.

EXT. SIDEWALK - LATE AFTERNOON

Bordering a supermarket. Brendan trudges along. Suddenly he

stops. Parked in the supermarket parking lot is a black

mustang.

EXT. PARKING LOT - LATE AFTERNOON

The sun hangs low. Brendan approaches the car and walks

around it slowly. He peers inside. A tuft of paper pokes out

from under the seat. He pulls the door handle, locked.

Brendan picks up a broken chunk of concrete from the ground,

waddles over to the car and holds the chunk above his head,

ready to drop it through the window.

He stops. His eyes catch something in the distance.

The lanky shaved-head kid, whose name is Tugger.   Coming

towards him fast.

Brendan stands there for a moment, then lets the chunk fall

to the ground. He casually leans against the car, removes

his glasses, puts them in a hard case and puts the hard case

in his pocket.

Tugger hits him like a train and throws him across the

pavement. Tug turns back to the car and takes out his keys.

Brendan gets up and comes towards Tug, his face stiff. Tug

turns and pops him once squarely in the mouth. Brendan falls

to his knees.

While Tug unlocks the door Brendan stands up woozily.

Grunting, Tug spins and grabs Brendan's jacket, pushing him

back while he slaps him hard in the face, back and forth,

three times. When Tug lets go Brendan drops like a stone,

catching himself on his hands and knees. The car door slams.

The mustang drives about a hundred yards out into the

parking lot, spins around and stops, facing Brendan. Its

motor purrs deeply. Brendan begins to limp towards it

doggedly, head up, eyes fixed.

A crackling roar and short squeal of tires spit the mustang

forward. It comes straight at Brendan, rumbling like a tank.

Brendan stops walking and stands very still, eyes steady.

The gap between him and the car closes in no time at all.

It speeds past him not six inches to his left, brushing the

edge of his jacket. Brakes squeal behind him. Brendan turns

and lopes towards the mustang, idling about fifty feet away.

He stops at the window.   Tugger eyes him curiously, with

some respect.

1

Brendan lifts his head painfully. Surrounding him in the

darkened doorways are dozens of boys, some dressed like

Tugger, others dressed in black.

Tug pokes his head out.

Arms pop out of the darkness and drag Brendan towards the

lit room.

INT. KINGPIN'S DEN

A small room, amazingly messy. Clothes strewn about, groves

of empty bottles, precarious piles of books. The overall

impression though is not of jumbled chaos, but of a nest,

comfortably woven and very worn in.

A slim figure with wispy hair sits facing the wall at a

small desk, writing under a green bookkeeper's lamp.

Brendan is shoved into the center of the room. Tug and his

clones slump against the surrounding walls. Brendan watches

the thin figure's back. For a beat the only noise is the

scratching of the thin man's pencil. Then he sighs and

swivels around.

Mid to late twenties. Sallow features, tired eyes. His

clothes are so richly black it is difficult to make out

specific items -- he is just one inky black mass from the

neck down and eyebrows up.

The Pin shifts in his seat, bored.

The Pin's eyes shoot to Tugger, who doesn't flinch.

The world turns on its side as Tugger pushes Brendan's head

down into the carpet.

The Pin walks towards them. One of his shoes is twice the

size of the other.

The cronies around the room begin cackling. Tug's face is a

mask of rage. Brendan can't breath. His face swells.

But Tug doesn't let up. Brendan's world grows hazy, the

cackling laughter reverberates, then a clean voice pierces

the din.

Tug's face breaks for a moment, and he lets go. Brendan's

head lolls to the side. Laura stands in the dark doorway.

Brendan sees Tug's knuckles and a flash of white for a split

moment as Tug hits him in the face. The Pin's black body

spills out across the frame, leaving us in black.

FADE UP

SMALL DARK ROOM

Brendan wakes up curled on a mattress on the floor. A bare

light bulb hangs from the ceiling. Tugger sits five feet

away, watching him like a hungry dog. Brendan stares back at

him through thick, glazed eyes.

Tug points, amused. Brendan heaves himself up, and Tug

shoves him back down.

Brendan winks at him, stands and lurches towards the door

again.

Tugger grabs his shirt and slams him into the wall, but

freezes when he hears a door latch click. Sneering, he drops

Brendan back onto the mattress and sits against the opposite

wall.

Sounds of a door opening and closing come from the darkness.

Light footsteps clack on the cement floor. Suddenly Tug

vanishes -- the room's darkness just seems to swallow him.

The thin whispery voice of the Pin speaks softly.

His disembodied face appears a few feet about where Tug had

sat.

He is standing in front of Tug. His black clothes and broad

rimmed black hat blend perfectly with the dark room, such

that his face seems to bob about in space. Brendan stifles a

cough.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Brendan sits at a breakfast table eating cornflakes. The

kitchen is on the first floor of the Pin's house, or rather

the Pin's mother's house. She is a soft old lady in a pastel

cotton dress, currently bent over the fridge mumbling.

She shuts the fridge. Tugger and the Pin sit behind her,

looking comfortably bored. The Pin, a sharp black hole

against the soft yellow kitchen, eats oatmeal cookies with

small delicate bites.

The Pin kisses her on the cheek.

She shuffles out.

The Pin grins thinly, uncomfortable.

The Pin and Brendan are perfectly still, watching each

other.

Tug turns to him, but Pin keeps his eyes on Brendan.

Beat. Tug stomps off, slamming the narrow door hard behind

him. The Pin goes back to gnawing his cookie.

Brendan sets down his spoon.

The Pin stands.

Brendan stands but doesn't follow as the Pin opens the

narrow door Tugger went through and descends the dark stairs

behind.

The moment the Pin vanishes into the basement's murk Laura

comes up out of it. She takes Brendan's hand.

INT. LAURA'S CONVERTIBLE MOVING - SUNSET

They zig zag though the twisty suburban streets. Brendan

stares sullenly into space.

1

deleted scenes section of the DVD. Available at fine retailers everywhere.

Throwing the car in gear, she peels out and leaves him

standing alone in the fading evening light.

INT. BACKSTAGE

Brendan pushes through the gloom, past forest scenery,

deeper and deeper until he comes to a door.

INT. WOMAN'S DRESSING ROOM

Hazy and cramped. Everything blends into the color of flesh.

No walls are visible; it is all billowy piles of costumes.

Brendan pushes in. Kara sits at the mirror, putting on

eyeliner.

Kara grins dreamily.

She turns to face him.

Brendan's face is a mask.

Brendan stands, coughing.

Brendan leaves without looking back.

INT. BRENDAN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Brendan's at his desk, on the phone.

The Brain is quiet for a beat.

A beat of silence.

Brendan gently replaces the receiver and sits for a moment

in silence.

EXT. LOCKER CAGE - MORNING

The class bell rings, and the cage quickly empties. Brendan

limps in, opens his locker. A note falls to his feet. It is

folded into a star. He pulls it open. "TWELVE THIRTY PICO &

ALEXANDER".

He fishes the old note out and compares them - different

handwriting.

The locker cage is now empty and silent, except for the

steady sound of heavy footfalls. Brendan looks up from the

notes.

A lug with a lumpish face is coming towards him. He wears a

black trenchcoat over bulbous shoulders, and his black hair

comes down over his eyes like a sheepdog's.

No answer. The lug keeps coming.

Closer, not slowing. Brendan tightens his hand into a fist.

Then CLICK! and a long slender switchblade gleams in the

lug's right paw.

Brendan jumps back as the lug swipes the blade at his torso.

Before the lug winds up for another slash Brendan is

running.

EXT. CAMPUS SQUARE - DAY

Brendan runs through the empty campus square, the lug

follows.

EXT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY

Wind rushing, sweating, the lug very close. Their footsteps

clatter on the cement. Brendan swings around a corner,

doubles back and stops with his back to a wall - he's lost

sight of him.

Brendan sweats, listening. The lug's footsteps echo through

the hallways, coming from all directions at once. Then it

seems clear - he's down the hall on Brendan's right.

Brendan dashes left. Wrong. The lug looms over him, his

knife hand flashing. Brendan's jacket shoulder tears open,

and the white filling inside turns red. He stumbles back

blindly, gets his footing and scrambles out of reach.

Brendan sprints away, down the hall, gaining about thirty

feet on the lug before turning the corner.

Brendan drops to a sitting position.

THE LUG AROUND THE CORNER

Running fast.

BRENDAN

Kicks his shoes off and clambers to his feet. The lug's

footsteps are impossibly loud.

THE LUG

Just about to round the corner.

BRENDAN

On his socked feet running silently back towards the corner.

The lug's footsteps crash like symbols as they both come

around the same corner in opposite directions at full speed.

Brendan slides like a baseball player, tangling his legs

into the lug's. The lug pitches forward with frightening

momentum. He hits the hall's metal handrail with his arms

and head. A hollow gong reverberates through the hallway,

and the lug falls like a puppet with his strings cut.

A wallet with a couple of twenties and a student ID (CHUCK

BURNS), three hash pipes, fifteen joints, a baggie of weed

and a large brownie in another baggie.

Brendan leaves it all on him and staggers off.

EXT. CAMPUS PAYPHONE - DAY

Brendan breathes heavily into the phone.

Brendan spots the Pin's Cady pulling into the parking lot.

Brendan hangs up and begins walking at a normal pace along

the sidewalk.

The cady pulls up beside him, and he stops walking. The door

swings open and a voice comes from inside.

With no perceivable hesitation, he does.

INT. CADILAC - DAY

Brendan sits beside the Pin. The windows are tinted and the

car is very dark. The seats are pink vinyl. The car lurches

forward.

Brendan and the Pin are silent for a beat, not looking at

each other.

A stocky kid in the front seat turns, and reaches into his

jacket. For a moment he stays like that, hand in his jacket,

eyes on Brendan. Brendan's face is placid.

Tangles pulls out an envelope and drops it in Brendan's lap.

Silence. The Pin holds his hat in his hands, fingering the

rim.

1

production we decided it was one layer too many, and identified the caller as Dode.

Brendan's first line was overdubbed in post to say `Dode?" instead of "So?"

CLICK. Brendan replaces the receiver and stands still for a

moment. Then he inserts a coin and dials.

Brendan hangs up.

1

tell your cinematographer that there will be an extended scene on a beach at night.

Turns out it's difficult to light up a beach without very large and expensive equipment.

Who knew. Shooting at sunset proved a fortunate and less horror inducing solution.

A moment of silence. The breakers crash.

The waves crash. Behind them, with no warning at all, a

train shoots by. Tug stands with his hands jammed in his

pockets, flashing lights and gleaming metal streaking and

squealing behind him.

INT. BRENDAN'S ROOM - EARLY MORNING

The clock radio blinks 5:34. The phone is ringing. Brendan

half wakes and puts it to his ear.

EXT. BACK OF LIBRARY - EARLY MORNING

A cold gray morning. The Brain hands Brendan a photocopy of

a newspaper clipping, "LOCAL YOUTH HOSPITALIZED"

He gives the note to Brendan, who unfolds it roughly.

The note reads "Meet me at the southeast corner of the

school at 9:30." Brendan crumples it into a ball.

The Brain lays out a local newspaper with Emily's picture -

"LOCAL GIRL MISSING". Uncomfortable silence.

The Brain looks hard at him. Brendan stares off into space

for a beat, then takes the Brain's cell phone and dials.

Brendan compares the two notes from his pocket with Laura's

- distinct handwriting on each.

Brendan hangs up.

EXT. THE PIN'S HOUSE - DAY

The bird of prey mailbox looms ominously. Brendan knocks on

the front door. No answer. He presses lightly on the screen

door, and it gives.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Empty. Brendan crosses the warped linoleum and gently opens

the narrow basement door. He descends into inky gloom.

INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY - SAME

Deathly still and silent. Barely breathing, Brendan goes to

the lit doorway at the end of the hall.

INT. PIN'S DEN - SAME

Empty. Brendan floats through the room like a ghost, to the

Pin's desk.

Slowly, then with greater confidence he rifles through it -

papers and trinkets, meaningless.

He reaches beneath the desk, knocking it gently with his

knuckles. Quickly he removes the top drawer and reaches down

into the desk frame.

Brendan draws out a stack of hundred dollar bills two inches

thick. He pulls out another. Another. Another. Thumbing the

stacks -- pure hundreds.

Something creaks in the hallway.

Brendan freezes. Silently he replaces the money and drawer,

his eyes on the doorway. He creeps towards the door on the

balls of his feet.

INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY - SAME

Still empty. Brendan creeps towards the stairs, passing

other doorways, all open but for one. He stops for a moment,

listening - silence.

INT. STORAGE ROOM - SAME

Brendan enters the room - pitch black but for a small high

window. Brendan pulls the curtains aside. A beam of sunlight

spills just enough light to reveal a figure in the dark.

Brendan jumps back, and his reflection in the large mirror

jumps as well.

A white bird nesting in the window flutters into the dark

room.

Brendan walks the large mirror into the beam of light,

reflecting it around the room like a flashlight. More junk,

a mattress, then a strangely bare corner with a single white

lump in it. The white bird stands behind the lump, its dark

eyes caught in the bare light.

The bird flies out the window.

Brendan goes to the white lump, a small brick of white

powder. White chalky residue patterns the floor -- there

were other bricks there before.

Behind Brendan, in the mirror, something moves. Someone

else, in the room.

Tugger. He throws Brendan across the room, then heaves him

into a wall.

Tug loosens his grip. Brendan gasps for air.

Tug draws back a bit.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Tug sets a country glass of orange juice in front of

Brendan. He paces.

He stops, thinking harder than he's used to. His scar

reddens slightly, then he jerks out of his trance.

A quiet pause. Tug's scar reddens a bit more.

The screen door swings open -- enter the Pin. If he's

surprised he doesn't show it.

His big foot clunks on the linoleum. He eyes a very sick

looking Brendan.

Brendan moves a hand dismissively, sniffling.

He gives a slip of paper to Tugger.

Tugger glances at the slip, then slides it to Brendan. It

has the symbol drawn in pencil:

A horn honks outside.

The Pin calls after him as he leaves.

EXT. FRONT OF PIN'S HOUSE - SAME

Brendan falls into Laura's idling car.

Brendan throws the car into drive, and they jerk forward.

EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY

Brendan slams the phone down violently and walks back

towards the car. His legs quiver, and a coughing fit hits.

Hacking and spluttering he falls to his knees. Laura's arms

wrap around him, except it isn't Laura, it's Emily. Brendan

spins backwards into

DARKNESS

Emily kissing his mouth, her hair around him, but it isn't

her hair, it's Laura's. Brendan shoots upwards

INT. LAURA'S CAR STATIONARY - DAY

and sits up with a jolt. Laid out in the back seat, Laura

dabbing his head with a wet napkin.

He throws himself out of the car.

EXT. SCHOOL PARKING LOT - SAME

Brendan falls to his knees, coughing. Laura follows.

He keeps yelling that until she does. His head spins.

He holds her shoulders. A beat, then her face registers

resignation.

EXT. BASKETBALL FIELD - DAY

A flat plane of pebbly asphalt with a dozen basketball

courts faintly outlined across its surface. Brendan stands

crooked, watching the barren horizon. The wind blows

bitterly, and the sky is dark.

Then, a speck. Coming towards Brendan, across the field.

Brendan slumps towards it. Closer. Still a dark dot. Closer.

Brendan's face snaps into recognition.

Dode grins. He holds a newspaper.

Brendan staggers, the world blurs out for a moment, then

snaps back.

Dode shakes the newspaper at him.

Dode throws the paper, which scatters in the wind.

Brendan's face is empty. Dode walks stiffly away. Brendan

puts a hand on his shoulder, but shrinks back in a coughing

spasm. Dode grabs Brendan's wrist and hits him in the face.

Brendan hits the pavement.

EXT. HEAVEN - DAY

Bright clouds, sharp light. Emily flies towards us, glowing,

then dimmer, her wings splutter out, the clouds turn gray,

and we are looking at Emily's picture in the newspaper

article.

EXT. BASKETBALL FIELD - DAY

Brendan pulls the newspaper off his face, lying in a fetal

position. Dode is nowhere to be seen.

Slowly, painfully, Brendan hoists himself up. He coughs and

splutters, barely able to keep his footing.

He limps across the field. Every step is agony. The wind

blows against him. The black field seems impossibly long,

still he keeps limping forward, towards the ravine.

EXT. RUNOFF TUNNEL - DAY

Brendan slides down the embankment, landing on his feet.

Gathered around the drain tunnel entrance are Tugger, the

Pin, five of Tugger's flunkies and Dode in the middle.

Everyone looks at Brendan.

A long silence. Brendan clears his throat.

More silence.

Nobody reacts to that. Brendan's face is placid.

The Pin looks up at Brendan, whose face is loose and

nonchalant.

Tugger's eyes are locked on Dode, his scar the color of raw

liver. Brendan laughs and turns away.

Tugger twists a stick in his hands. Brendan watches him,

curious.

Tugger springs like a cat.     He grabs Dode's hair and knees

his face.

Brendan stumbles towards them.

Tug has Dode on the ground, kicking his stomach and chest.

Tug backs off. Dode raises his head.

Tug pulls the gun from his jacket.

Brendan yells, slips and falls into the shallow water.

Tug levels the gun at Dode's head and fires one shot. The

back of Dode's skull comes off.

The rapport reverberates through the black tunnel behind

them, and birds fly out. Dode remains upright for a moment,

then falls limp into the water.

The Pin's face is stupid, lifeless. Tug turns to him, gun in

hand.

Tugger fires - dirt kicks up, and the Pin scrambles back.

Brendan crawls towards Tug, yelling for him to stop.

Tug fires twice more, both misses, and the Pin is away.

Distant sirens.

Brendan's vision blurs.   He stumbles and falls into the

shallow water.

A CEILING FAN

Spinning gently. Brendan's eyes open, watch it sleepily,

then sharpen.

INT. TUGGER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Brendan sits up in the bed. Tugger sits in a chair bedside,

smoking. Brendan watches him for a long moment in the room's

dim light.

Brendan stares at him through cold, empty eyes.

Brendan nods.

Brendan swings his legs over the bed. Tug steps in front of

him, staring him down.

Tugger exits. Brendan runs his fingers through his hair,

steps into his shoes and hobbles out of the room.

INT. TUGGER'S LIVING ROOM - SAME

About ten more kids dressed like Tug are cleaning guns.

Brendan nods to them.

They nod back, not paying much attention as he goes out the

front door.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

On a lamplit street corner Brendan leans against a payphone.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Brendan kicks in the door. Kara sits in front of the mirror

in a soft pink robe, a boy on the floor beside her. She

gasps.

Brendan throws a chair. The boy stands.

1

EXT. PIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Brendan walks past the bird of prey mailbox. A voice from

the screen door -

The Pin.

Beat of silence.

Brendan turns away.

She comes out of the house with her purse.

INT. LAURA'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

Laura drives, Brendan stares at the passing lights.

Brendan coughs.

INT. TUGGER'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Brendan stumbles in. Tug's hands grab him roughly.

Laura enters.

He drops Brendan. Laura kneels beside Brendan, feeling his

forehead.

Tugger turns away, thinking.

She nods. Brendan stumbles into the bedroom.

INT. TUGGER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Brendan lies on his back. Sweat stands on his forehead.

THE FAN

Spinning dizzily from Brendan's POV. Then the fan is still

and the room is spinning, then the fan, then the room.

Brendan clamps his eyes shut. A door creaks open.

Laura floats across the room to him. Her hair falls around

him. Brendan shrinks back. She puts a pale hand on his

clammy forehead. Brendan tries to speak, but cannot.

He fingers slide over his face. She pulls off his glasses.

Her hands all over his face. Brendan's throat contorts in a

hard swallow. His eyes are wet.

Her hair, her hands all warm and gentle, touching him.

Brendan breaks. In silent sobs first, then shivering with an

almighty release he cries like a baby in her arms.

THE FAN

Spinning above them.

Laura lights a cigarette. They lie beside each other.

Her smoke drifts into the fan.

Brendan watches the smoke. She stubs the butt out in an ash

tray on the table and curls against his chest.

Stretching his arm across the table, he nonchalantly spins

the ash tray around with his finger.

His glasses lay on the table. Through the left lens the

cigarette is magnified. Pale blue arrow on the filter.

Laura's arm stretches across his chest. He looks at it, then

up at the fan, spinning.

LATER

Brendan slips out of bed. A glowing clock radio reads

"3:16".

INT. TUGGER'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A swarm of silent activity. Tug's flunkies prepare various

weapons. Brendan goes to Tug.

He tosses Brendan his keys.

EXT. TUGGER'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Brendan slides into the black mustang and gutters off into

the night.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Overlooking a twinkling valley of suburban lights. Brendan

talks at a payphone beside the curbed mustang.

CLICK, Brain hangs up.

EXT. FRONT OF PIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Brendan pulls the mustang into the driveway, limps up to the

front door and knocks. One of the Pin's boys lets him in.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Crowded with tense looking punks, half dressed like the Pin

and half like Tugger. The Pin's mom is shuffling about,

pouring them milk.

INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY - SAME

Several more punks from both camps crowd the hall, and more

lean in the darkened doorways. Brendan passes through

quickly.

INT. PIN'S DEN - SAME

The Pin at his desk, flanked by two of his boys. Tug sits in

the center of the room, two of his punks beside him. Brendan

saunters between them and leans against the dresser.

Tug's eyes burn, his scar reddens.

Tug looks at the Pin.

Brendan looks up sharply, taken off guard.

Tug shoots to his feet, kicking away his chair.

Everyone in the room is on their feet.   Brendan steps

forward.

All eyes to him, unbelieving.

They go.

Tug just stares at Brendan, then tosses his hands up

slightly and turns away.

They all wait.

CRASH! from the next room. Everyone freezes. More breaking,

then scuffling and shouting.

The two punks look at their bosses, then run out. Tug starts

to follow, but Brendan holds him back.

The noise through the wall grows tremendous, a full brawl.

The ceiling pounds and shudders with footfalls and bodies

hitting the ground.

Then, from not too far away, a gunshot.

The Pin stands and goes towards the door, but Brendan shouts

and slams it shut. A few tense seconds.

Another gunshot. Footfalls, then Tangles falls through the

door, his chest red. The Pin bends over him.

Tangles stops gasping.

The Pin stands, eyes blazing at Tug.

Tug's scar is fiery red. He coils his body, snarling.

Tug blows past Brendan like a train and slams the Pin into

the ground with his fist. He punctuates his words with hard

straight blows into the Pin's face.

He pulls the gun.

Brendan shouts and throws himself on Tug's arm, wrenching it

sideways. The gun clunks onto the carpet.

The Pin flips Tug   over and for a moment Brendan is caught

between them, hit   and torn, rolling over the gun. Tug grabs

it, Brendan grabs   his wrist and the gun goes off, firing

into the ceiling.   Plaster sprays.

Brendan screams, thrashing wildly, and manages to slip out

of his bloodied jacket and out from between the two.

The Pin is on top, pinning Tug's gun hand to the carpet,

straining to keep it there.

Brendan leaps to his feet, staggers, then winds up and kicks

Tug in the wrist with all his strength.

A terrible crunching popping sound. Tug roars. Brendan takes

the gun from his limp hand.

Brendan backs off a few steps. The Pin strains to keep Tug

down.

Brendan stumbles back. Tug roars, flips the Pin over and

beats his face mercilessly.

Brendan stumbles out into the hall.

INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY - SAME

Empty. From the darkened doorways and the thin ceiling

relentless sounds of fighting.

Brendan walks backwards as if in a trance, eyes glued to the

Pin's door. Inside wild shadows splay across the walls, and

the Pin shouts Brendan's name.

Light flashes from another darkened doorway and the wall

beside Brendan splinters. Brendan spins on his heel and

fires three shots into the darkness, which falls silent.

He turns the gun back on the Pin's doorway.

With a spray of sparks the doorway turns dark. They broke

the lamp.

The dark doorway looms up before Brendan, inky black.

Horrible sounds come from it, blows, breaking bone, screams.

The Pin screams Brendan's name over and over, calling for

help. Pleading. Brendan steps back.

Time slows down. Brendan drops the gun.

It thunks on the carpet.

In one motion Brendan kicks the gun down the hall into the

Pin's doorway, turns and runs into the room where he found

the brick.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

Dark. Brendan runs through, clawing past dark fighting

shapes, running like a man possessed. He breaks through the

darkness and heaves himself up through the small window.

EXT. FRONT OF PIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Brendan scrambles out, slips on the grass and hits the

ground hard.

Two sharp gunshots come from the house.

Everything is suddenly still. Brendan stands slowly.

He notices a light from the Mustang - the trunk has drifted

open.

Inside, a pale blue arm lies tangled in black plastic. Blue

fingernails. Cheap plastic bracelets.

Brendan shuts the trunk solidly, then walks off down the

street and vanishes into the inky night.

A moment later police cars pull up, sirens blaring, lights

turning the dark streets bright as day.

EXT. SCHOOL PAYPHONE - EARLY MORNING

The morning is cold and clammy. Brendan slumps against the

payphone.

Brendan hangs up, then pauses, lost in thought.

EXT. SIDE OF GYM - LATER

Brendan sits against the massive gym building, writing on a

piece of looseleaf paper.

EXT. ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - LATER

Brendan slips the paper under a door stenciled "VP Offices".

EXT. BASKETBALL FIELD - LATER

Cold, barren. Wind whistles softly and jangles the metal

mesh basketball nets like windchimes.

Brendan stands crookedly, hands in pockets, eyes trained on

the cold black horizon. A speck appears. Brendan waits for

it, bracing himself against the wind.

Laura. She puts her arms around him, a warm embrace. Brendan

draws back.

Brendan looks at her a moment.

Laura looks at him strangely, a little uneasy.

Brendan's face is frozen in an ambiguous frown.

Laura's face softens a bit.

Laura embraces him again, and doesn't let go.

Laura pulls back, looks at his face. It is a mask.

Laura pulls back more.

Laura's face is very still, quivering.

She crumples against him, looking him straight in the eye.

She sobs through a tensed, straight face. Brendan holds her

stare, but his eyes are distant.

Something changes in Laura's eyes.

EXT. LOCKER CAGE - INSERT

Trueman and several other men force Laura's locker open.

From its dark interior the chalky white brick falls out,

spins through the air, and shatters silently on the locker

cage floor.

EXT. BASKETBALL FIELD - SAME

A moment of silence between them. The basketball nets

jangle.

Laura steps back. She looks as if she has been punched in

the face.

Her face does strange things, subtle contortions.

She watches his eyes. He doesn't look at her. Her voice

shakes.

Slowly, steadily, she straightens up. Her figure takes back

some dignity. She steps towards him deliberately. Closer.

Right up against him.

She brings her head to his, puts her lips to his ear,

breathes warm breath, and says two words. The first is

the second is low, guttural and lost to the whistling wind.

She turns and walks briskly away.

Brendan watches her go across the dark, barren field of

asphalt.

Metal jangles. Brendan turns to see the Brain hopping a

chain link fence. Brendan turns his eyes back on Laura.

The Brain starts to walk away, but turns back.

