EXT. NEW YORK STREETS--NIGHT

An EMS "bus" careens around a corner, tires squealing, lights

flashing, siren whoop-whooping, swooping through Stygian

canyons of New York.

FRANK PIERCE, 28, drives. He wears dark cargo pants, black

boots, a white shirt with the paramedic badge, "EMS" gold

logo on one collar, "OLM" on the other. "Our Lady of Mercy

Paramedic" is inscribed in white across the back of his

navy jacket. On his belt: two-way radio, leather gloves,

beeper, drug kit, multi-purpose tool kit, mini-flashlight,

collapsible baton.

LARRY, 35, overweight, his partner for the night, rides techie

(shotgun), both hands clutching the dash.

Frank scans the blurring cityscape for hidden danger. He is

a young man of slight frame and open face--his life, his

possible futures, still before him: behind those open eyes,

beneath those dark shadows: hollowness beckons.

Dispatcher's voice crackles through the cab static: "Ladder

4, respond to a 10-22, four flight residential, 417 East 32.

13 Boy, men's room Grand Central, man set his pants on fire.

Bad burns. 17 David, at 177 East 24, there's a

woman who says a roach crawled in her ear. Can't get it out,

says she's going into cardiac arrest ..."

Frank's detached voice speaks over the urban landscape:

The radio continues: "Zebra, 13Z, 524 East 17--"

The ambulance breaks to a halt in front of a row of vintage

walk-ups. Frank and Larry jump out: Frank lugs the EKG monitor

and airway bag, Larry the drug box, yellow oxygen

pack slung over his shoulder. Neighbors crowd around.

The front door opens, a young boy holding it.

Author's note: in emergency situations, either on the street

or in the hospital, it is assumed there is continual

background noise--voices, sirens, cries, questions, etc.

INT. TENEMENT STAIRWELL--NIGHT

Four flights up: Frank and Larry climbing rotting steps,

gray-yellow painted walls, red doors with three locks each,

Larry, out of breath, his stomach rolling around like a

bowling ball in a bag.

INT. BURKE APARTMENT--NIGHT

They enter 5A. MRS. BURKE, 55, her eyes run dry, standing in

the center of the room, surrounded by neighbors. Someone

leads them to the BEDROOM where Mr. Burke, 60, lies unmoving,

stretched on the bed. A young woman, MARY BURKE, 24, kneels

over the old man, pressing her lips to his flaccid mouth.

JOHN BURKE, 30, grabs Franks arm:

Frank and Larry moving the body to the floor:

Larry ripping open Mr. Burke's shirt, prepping electrode

patches, hooking wires, Frank opening Burke's mouth, feeling

a puff of gas escape; Larry calling for backup. Burke's EKG

rhythm on the monitor a flat green line.

Frank's training takes over: he injects the long steel

laryngoscope down Burke's throat, he finds a vein, injects

epinephrine, followed by atrophine, followed by another epi:

no response on the monitor. Larry pulls out the paddles:

Larry activates defibrillator, shock--Burke's body heaves.

Sweat drips from Larry's nose onto Burke's chest.

They shock him again. This time the body moves less. Frank

glances up: Mr. and Mrs. Burke's wedding photo sits on the

nightstand. Other pictures: a day at the beach, a young

serviceman, happy parents. Frank's mind drifts:

Frank feels Burke's heart beneath cracked ribs. The EEG

remains flat. He's dead. It's time to quit.

Larry stands, breathing heavy, looks for a phone. Frank turns

to notice relatives and neighbors standing around.

John enters crying. Mary repeats softly:

John exits. Frank notices Mary for the first time: blond

hair dyed black, cut short, loose fitting tank dress, black

makeup running down her cheeks. He notices her prom picture,

glances back to Mary: it seems she hasn't smiled since that

day eight years before. Something special about her, that

something that hits you right away.

"September of My Years" plays from the other room. Frank

continues massaging Mr. Burke's chest (now to Sinatra beat),

even though it's hopeless. Larry returns:

Frank feels something strange, looks into Burke's pupils,

checks his neck pulse, wrist pulse. His eyes go to Larry:

Larry checks the monitor: the green line up and down. Mary

senses a change in status:

A distant siren signals the arrival of backup. Frank turns

to Larry:

He looks from Mary back to Mr. Burke--breathing but comatose.

INT. AMBULANCE--NIGHT

Larry climbing through the back doors, sitting in the jumpseat

at the stretcher's head as Frank hangs IV bags, replugs EKG

wires that have come loose.

Frank looks up, sees Mary entering; he takes her arm, turns

her toward the rear doors:

Mary steps out, stands in the red flashing light as Larry

closes the door, Frank climbs in the driver's seat.

EXT. SECOND AVENUE--NIGHT

The EMS bus cruises up Second. Frank checks the side mirror:

John, Mary and Mrs. Burke pull behind in a black Ford. Seeing

their faces, Frank flips the lights and siren on. It's too

late to help Mr. Burke, but it's important to the family

that it look urgent. Frank watches passing lights, cars,

faces:

EXT. OUR LADY OF MERCY--NIGHT

Larry and Frank's 13 Zebra ambulance lined up beside two

others outside a blazing "Emergency" sign on the crowded

side street.

INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT

Every large city has a hospital Emergency Room so replete

with trauma, violence and suffering it picks up the sobriquet

"Knife and Gun Club." On Manhattan's Lower East Side it's

our Lady Of Mercy, aka, Our Lady of Misery.

ER: a white-lit cement box painted yellow and decorated with

old framed Playbills. Four rows of six plastic chairs face a

TV bolted and chained to the ceiling. The seats are filled

with backed-up drunks, assault victims and "regulars,"

bleeding and spilling over against the walls and the floor,

getting up to ask their status or going out to throw up and

have a smoke.

Larry and Frank wheeling Burke in, two IV lines, each

connected to an elbow, tangled in EKG cables. Two LACERATED

RUSSIANS scramble out of their way as they approach GRISS,

the large black sunglassed security guard. He looks up from

his television guide:

Griss pushes a button, activating the automatic door, striking

the bandaged leg of a man lying down on a stretcher in the

hall. Larry and Frank wheel Burke inside. A pleading family

tries to follow. Griss stretches out his hand:

Mary, John and Mrs. Burke rush in from the street, hoping

some miracle has occurred during the drive to the hospital,

approach the sign-in desk.

Frank and Larry pass four stretchers lined against the wall--

a passage nicknamed "Skid Row" leading past triage NURSE

CONSTANCE's station.

Nurse Constance turns back to the nervous man seated beside

her:

Larry and Frank slow at the last Skid Row stretchers. On

one, NOEL, a young dark-skinned man with chaotic mess of

dreadlocks, pulls feverishly at his restraints:

From the next stretcher a man with feet swollen purple like

prize eggplants replies:

NURSE CRUPP stops Frank and Larry as they approach the

Critical care room. inside, the staff appears as if under

siege by a battalion of shriveled men and women lying on a

field of white sheets.

Larry unravels himself from the IV lines as nurse walks over,

takes Burke's pulse.

DR. HAZMAT, 30, steps over.

Back at SECURITY, the Burkes confront Griss.

In CRITICAL CARE, Larry wheels Burke into unit three as Dr.

Hazmat turns Frank to face the room, explaining:

Hazmat pulls out a vial marked with a red skull and

crossbones, shows it to Frank.

Nurse Crupp pulls on Hazmat's arm.

She points to Burke. His monitor is ringing like a fire alarm.

Hazmat and Crupp rush over, wave to others:

As the staff crowds around Burke, pulling the paddles from

off the monitor, Frank, pushing his stretcher away, notices

Big Feet climb onto his infected feet, hobble over, work to

untie Noel.

Frank heads down Skid Row pushing the stretcher, passing

Nurse Constance speaking with a man with a gash over his

eye:

Frank pushes the automatic door button--and is suddenly hit

from behind by Noel. The stretcher spins sideways. Noel

dives out the doors for the water fountain, snorting up water

like a bull. Mary Burke, standing with her family, looks at

Frank.

Frank and Mary step out into the humid night.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT

Checking behind then, Frank stops. Mary pauses before she

speaks:

The doors break open. Noel comes flying out, bounces on the

sidewalk. Griss, in the doorway, closes the doors.

Mary goes over to Noel:

Frank watches: Mary returns with a cup of water, gives it to

a grateful Noel.

Mary starts to cry. Frank fumbles in his pocket, finds a

tissue, gives it to her.

Noel hugs her clumsily, his shoulders bobbing. Frank watches,

realizing this is what he should have done for her.

EXT. EAST SIDE STREETS--NIGHT

13 Zebra cruising down Avenue C, Frank at the wheel, Larry

shotgun.

Franks turns, gets jammed up behind a pimp car at Second and

Avenue B, a corner populated by pushers and hookers. TWO

WHORES stand in front of an abandoned building. Frank turns

to look.

The second whore, wearing a yellow vinyl coat, turns. She

has a face that instantly freezes Frank: the Rose face.

Pregnant, she gestures to her belly:

Frank hits the whoop-whoop siren. The pimps in the black BMW

jump, look back, realize its only an ambulance, and pull

away.

Frank speeds up Avenue B. Noel, wearing generic homeless

combat fatigues, muttering to his friends in Hell, passes on

the sidewalk. Frank notices another hooker, catches her face:

the same face as the pregnant Whore #2. The Rose face. His

mind drifts:

EXT. CHICKEN TAKE-OUT--NIGHT

The EMS vehicle is stopped at a fast food joint. Larry orders,

waits.

Larry gets his chicken, chats with counter clerk, returns.

Larry climbs in, sets his take-out on the dash, hands Frank

a coffee. A police walkie-talkie is in the front tray.

Pause. Neither moves.

EXT. FIRST & ST. MARKS--NIGHT

Frank and Larry standing over Mr. Oh, 40, surrounded by street

people. Oh lays curled up beside his wheelchair, wearing a

black garbage bag with holes cut out for his arms, his pants

around his knees.

Frank crouches over Oh, tries to pull Oh's pants over his

white, dirt-stained ass. Oh moans:

Larry and Frank get Oh to his feet only to have him stumble

over his lowered trousers. This time Frank lifts him, sets

his white ass cheeks into the wheelchair. They push him toward

the ambulance.

EXT. FIRST AVE--NIGHT

13 Zebra heads up First, double Caduceus symbols shining

from the back of the van.

Inside the cab, Larry and Frank lean out the front windows

to avoid the king of stink:

INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT

Griss holding up his hand:

Frank and Larry stand beside Oh slumped in his wheelchair.

Fellow drunks welcome their comrade from plastic chairs.

Nurse Constance escorts a young man from the triage area:

Griss shows young man the door.

Griss returns as Crupp calls from critical care area:

Larry and Frank turn, secretly pleased, and wheel Mr. Oh

outside.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT

Larry setting Oh outside the entrance, heading towards the

all night deli. Frank takes out a cigarette.

Mary Burke walks up the drive opening a pack of cigs. Frank

offers her a light. She inhales, exhales:

Larry walks back with a coffee for himself and a brown bag

beer for Frank.

EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE--NIGHT

4:00am.  The EMS vehicle drives downtown. The city has

transformed: a deserted city, inhabited by the hardcore:

hardcore night-shift employees, hardcore party-goers, hardcore

druggies, hardcore homeless, people with something special

to do or nowhere to go.

Larry driving at a good clip, riding both the gas and the

break pedals, enjoying the newfound freedom of movement.

Frank places both hands on the dash as Larry squeals around

a corner.

Larry slows down on a side street. Frank turns to watch a

homeless man. The man looks back: it's Rose. The Rose face.

Frank turns to Larry:

Larry pulls into the Jacob Riis projects by the river, slows

to a stop.  Larry cuts the lights, not bothering to inform

his partner what his partner already knows: they're taking

a rest.

EXT. RIIS PROJECTS--NIGHT

13 Zebra sits in the quiet dark. Larry puffs a cigarette.

Larry tosses the cigarette out the window, leans against the

door jab, closes his eyes. In a second he's asleep.

Frank turns down the radio volume: the calls are fewer and

further between now. Frank leans back, tries to rest:

TIMECUT: radio wakes Frank from his reverie.

Frank hangs up, bangs Larry's steering wheel:

Larry instinctively reaches for the ignition key, starts the

engine, drops the ambulance into gear, hits lights, jerks

the EMS bus away, still half asleep.

EXT. HOUSTON & FIRST--NIGHT

13 Zebra coming to a bone jarring stop at the corner. Getting

out of the techie seat, Frank sees Noel, his face bloody,

charging at him.

Noel has sliced up a tire and fastened the pieces with string

over his shoulders. Tin cans circle his wrists and ankles.

One hand carries a broken bottle, the other a stringless

violin.

Frank jumps back inside as Noel rams the window, leaving

stains from his blood-matted dreadlocks. Larry calls for

backup: medics, police, firemen, anybody.

The side window glass bends as Noel rams his head against

it. Frank reaches for the short club between the seats; Noel

holds the jagged bottle to his neck.

Noel drops the bottle. Frank rolls down the window.

Noel swings his bloody dreadlocks: Frank ducking, getting

splattered anyway, rolling up the window.

A BLACK PUNK calls from the crowd:

Noel, spraying blood, chases the Punk. The crowd scatters.

Noel trips, falls to the sidewalk. Frank, carrying the short

bat, gets out, walks over, hunches beside Noel:

A siren draws closer, Noel gets to his feet as Larry opens

the rear doors.

A second ambulance skids to a stop. TOM WALLS, 35, a 220

pound bald-headed bruiser, gets out.

Walls hauls back, swings at Noel; Noel ducks.

Walls throws Noel against the bus, knocks him down, sets to

kicking him.

Noel moans. Larry sticks his head out the back of the bus:

Walls releasing Noel as Noel scrambles into the bus, Frank

stepping over him, Larry climbing into the driver's seat,

Frank closing the doors. Noel trembles:

Larry squeals off full gun, all sirens blaring: the Wah, the

Yelp, the Super Yelp. Strobe bar, side strobes, quarter panel

strobes. Rock n' roll.

EXT. FIRST & THIRD--NIGHT

Both EMS buses breaking to a stop at the crime scene, cops

holding the crowd back; Walls, Frank, Larry, Walls' partner

moving through the crowd.

Two boys, DRUG DEALERS, lie bleeding on the sidewalk. Frank

drops to his knees beside one, Walls the other. Larry wheels

out the stretcher.

Two white vials roll out of the Drug Dealer's shirt: marked

with red skull and crossbones. Frank looks over--they're

gone, swiped by eager hands.

Listening for a heartbeat, Frank calls to Walls:

INT. 13 ZEBRA EMS VEHICLE--NIGHT

Larry charging through the night while, in back, Frank,

stethoscope in his ears, wrapping a tourniquet around the

Drug Dealer's arm: he's dying fast.

Noel holds IV bag as Frank searches for a vein, inserts second

IV needle.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT

Larry pulls into Our Lady of Mercy Emergency. Frank says to

the boy:

No answer. Frank feels for a pulse, listens with the

stethoscope: nothing. Larry opens the doors.

Frank turns to his partner:

Larry and Frank pull the dead boy out of the bus.

INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT

Frank finishes his report, hands a copy to the clerk, looks

around the now almost empty waiting area. John Burke sleeps

slumped in one of the chairs. Griss stands at his post.

Pulling out a pack of cigarettes, Frank steps outside.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT

Frank exits, lights up. The sky is going blue. Inside the

open rear doors of 13 Zebra, Larry mops up bloody floor.

Mary Burke, weary, steps beside Frank.

He offers a cigarette. She accepts:

Larry jumps theatrically out of the ambulance, swings the

mop wildly over his head:

Mary laughs once, less than a second. She notices blood stains

on Frank's shirt:

He does.

Frank looks at her, trying to say the right thing. He notices

Mrs. Burke coming from inside.

Mrs. Burke, dazed, steps out. They join her.

She drifts away. Frank speaks to Mary:

They walk Mrs. Burke to 13 Zebra.

Mary watches as Larry backs up the EMS vehicle, Frank sitting

in the back with her mother, pulls into first light.

EXT. 12TH STREET--EARLY MORNING

Larry dropping Frank off at the corner of First and Sixteenth,

driving on.

It is as if the sun has risen on a different city, different

from the one which Frank drove through the night before: a

city of crumbling neighborhoods laid bare by sunlight; a

city of day people, getting up, having breakfast, going to

work.

INT. FRANK'S APARTMENT--DAY

Frank's studio apartment betrays a minimal existence: single

bed, table, fridge and stove, loveseat, bookshelf, television.

The bookshelf contains a CD player, medical texts, old

schoolbooks ("Romantic Poetry"), paperback novels and,

incongruously, a picture book of women's fashion.

A framed commendation from the New York Fire Department hangs

beside and open closet of work clothes, corduroy jacket, two

ties on a hook. Remnants of a fast food breakfast on the

table. Aluminum foil covers the windows, blocking out the

sunlight.

Frank stands bareback at the single open window, smoking,

drinking from a glass of whiskey, looking across the gray

cityscape of high rises and water tanks: winding down from

the night's work:

TIME DISSOLVES: Frank paces the room. Pours himself another

drink.

TIME DISSOLVE: window is closed. Frank tosses in his sleep.

Nightstand alarm buzzes. Frank sits up, looks at the clock.

Stretching his neck, he walks over to the sink, runs water

on his hands and face.

EXT. EMS GARAGE--NIGHT

The maintenance garage and dispatch office adjacent to our

Lady of Mercy.

INT. EMS GARAGE OFFICE--NIGHT

Frank standing on one foot before the desk of CAPTAIN BARNEY,

50, ex-paramedic and lifetime civil servant.

Capt. Barney looks over to MISS WILLIAMS, his secretary,

seated at a desk perpendicular to his:

EXT. SECOND AVENUE--NIGHT

12 Young heading downtown, lights off, slowing down for cross

streets. At the wheel: MARCUS, 45, black, reserved, chin

erect, seeming too old for the job. Frank rides techie.

LOVE, a black, tough-talking female dispatcher, comes on the

radio:

Marcus flips on the lights and siren.

EXT. NINTH & AVENUE C--NIGHT

Marcus grabs the yellow airway bag, leaving Frank to lug the

three heavier pieces as they push their way through the crowd

toward a black jacketed DOORMAN holding a walkie-talkie:

INT. CLUB BACKSTAGE--NIGHT

The Doorman leads Frank and Marcus through the smoky graffiti-

covered backstage ante-rooms to a cubicle where a knot of

club types and band members hover around IB BANGIN, 18 year-

old white rapper, face up, blank-eyed and breathless on dirt-

impacted carpet. Hip-hop music echoes from the club PA.

Frank kneels beside IB Bangin, taking a pulse, realizing

it's the gray and black stage makeup making him seem DOA. He

pulls up IB Bangin's eyelid, shines a light into the pupil.

The Girlfriend shoots a look at the Bystander. Marcus just

stands, hands on hips, silent. Frank opens the drug box.

The Drummer relents:

Marcus assists them as Frank breaks the cellophane off a

syringe, locates a vial of Narcon. Frank gives Marcus the

high sign--Marcus raises his hands:

Frank injects IB Bangin: he responds to the Narcon with a

jolt, opening his eyes, raising his hands.

Frank and the Girlfriend guide IB Bangin to the door as Marcus

collects the gear.

He follows Frank, IB Bangin and Girlfriend out, calling for

the crowd to clear.

INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT

IB Bangin sitting with Nurse Constance in triage. Past Griss,

Frank talks with Dr. Hazmat:

Frank nods, walks down Skid Row, passing Nurse Constance

lecturing IB Bangin:

EXT. FIRST AVE--NIGHT

12 Young heading up the avenue.

EXT. BURKE APT. BUILDING--NIGHT

Marcus stops the ambulance on 17th Street.

Frank gets out, walks over to the intercom, pushes the button

for 5A. Mary answers:

Mary appears in a white sweater and simple gray skirt like

schoolgirls wear. The dark makeup is gone. She looks happy.

Mary steps to the curb, raises her hand for a taxi. None in

sight.

Frank opens the back doors of the bus, climbs in behind Mary.

They sit on the bench opposite the stretcher.

Marcus turns on the radio, an old song from the sixties, as

they head uptown.

INT. MERCY CRITICAL CARE--NIGHT

Frank and Mary walking past the triage station toward the

curtained corner where her father lies. Next to Burke, Dr.

Hazmat assists an AIDS patient amid a forest of IV tubing.

Mr. Burke lies prone, two IV lines hung from poles, intubated

by a hose running to the ventilator, a NG tube covering his

nose. His eyes are permanently half open. Burke's hands and

feet are tied by white nylon restraints. Mary takes her

father's hand as Frank pulls the curtain.

A nearby patient SCREAMS. Mary Burke SCREAMS too:

Dr. Hazmat and MILAGROS, an intern, walk over.

Burke's eyes fully open. His cheeks ripple and his lips smack

against the tube between them. His back arches, his body

shakes, his arms yank at their restraints as if reaching to

pull out the wires and tubes. Green lights dance across the

EKG screen, ALARMS sound: first the cardiac monitor, next

the ventilator.

Hazmat and Milagros hold down Burke's arms as Crupp prepares

the Valium. Mary backs away.

They step away.

INT. LOCKER ROOM--NIGHT

Passing Griss (reading anti-white agitprop) and waiting room

regulars, Frank leads Mary to a small rectangular paramedic

locker area: sofa, desk, two banks of gray lockers, walls

decorated with hospital rules and regulations.

He sits across from her, wishing he could be in three seats

at once, each to watch her from a different angle.

Marcus enters with a small pizza and two cokes.

Marcus exits.

She says as she picks up a slice of cheese pizza.

Pause.   This thought hangs in the air. From outside: a

BELLICOSE DRUNK is escorted into the ER.

Frank puts his hand out but she's already on her feet. He

grabs the last slice of pizza, hands it to Griss as she heads

back to Critical Care.

Griss nods.

EXT. CANAL STREET--NIGHT

12 Young back on the job, moving with traffic.

Marcus swings up First Ave:

Frank watches night tableaus (police cars flashing, lovers

kissing, woman crying hysterically, drunken slugfest) as his

mind wanders:

Frank notices another EMS bus: Tom Walls wheeling a stretcher--

Noel, face bloodied, lies restrained as Walls' partner opens

the rear doors.

Marcus continues as if uninterrupted:

They pass a working girl in a rain slicker who pulls off her

hood to look at them: a familiar face.

Frank, looking back at the Rose face, hears her faintly say:

Marcus, not hearing "Rose's" voice, replies:

Dispatcher Love's voice cuts through:

Marcus hits the siren.

INT. RUNDOWN TENEMENT--NIGHT

Frank and Marcus standing in a no-income apartment with their

cardiac equipment. MARIA, a 17 year-old Hispanic girl, lies

moaning and breathing shallow on a ratty sofa. CARLOS, her

equally young boyfriend, watches anxiously, holding a candle

for light.

Carlos speaks broken English:

Maria shakes her head, looks away.

Marcus radioing for assistance.

Maria SCREAMS. Marcus kneels beside Frank as a distant EMS

siren grows louder.

Frank looks up at the screaming mother: it's not her face.

It's Rose. The Rose face.

INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT

Frank rushing past Nurse Constance, carrying a newborn in

thermal wrap, passing Noel restrained on a gurney:

Hazmat rushing over:

Across the room an obscenity-spouting FEMALE CRACKHEAD being

restrained by a patrolman and hospital security--adding to

the sense of emergency and chaos. DR. MISHRA, 50, Pediatric

MD, and nurses squeeze toward newborn edging Frank back.

Mishra takes an osteocatheter out of the cart, forces it

into the now obscured baby as Nurse Constance massages the

infant's chest.

Hazmat steps over to the now restrained Crackhead.

Mishra, worried, checks with Nurse Constance--they're losing

the newborn:

Frank looking at the EKG monitor--a green flatline--backs

away.

Frank walking away, not looking where he's going, backs into

Noel's gurney.

Noel, his face battered from his encounter with Walls, pulls

at his restraints, howls:

Hazmat looks over:

EXT. CANAL STREET--NIGHT

12 Young on the road again, sky turning blue.

Marcus reaches under the seat, pulls a pint of vodka, a quart

of orange juice and two cups out of an old gym bag, passes

them to Frank.

Frank mixes a screwdriver for Marcus, straight vodka for

himself.

Marcus hits the sirens and lights, accelerates to full speed.

The vodka spills; Frank grabs the dash.

Marcus swings the bus wildly to avoid a cab, SKIDS into a

turn--and smack toward a parked truck. Frank covers his face

and screams.

CRASH! The back of the ambulance rams into the truck, the

rear windows shatter.

Frank looks around, realizes no one is hurt. He climbs out:

Frank walks up Avenue A, leaving Marcus and the disabled

vehicle. The first rays of sun strike the buildings ahead.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--DAYBREAK

Frank turning the corner, checking his watch, about to enter

the Dark Bar across the corner from the hospital, watching

Noel run past him and away, skipping from one foot to the

other.

The Emergency doors open: Mary Burke, head down, looking

neither direction, walks away from Frank. Griss steps out

after her. Frank joins him:

Mary starts to run. Frank follows. She pushes her way through

a group of high schoolers; Frank does likewise, keeping his

distance.

Five blocks later, Mary hesitates at a plaza outside the

Stuyvesant Town projects,

EXT. STUYVESANT TOWN--MORNING

Frank stops a few steps away from Mary; Mary turns.

Mary takes a few steps, turns back.

She walks into the building. He follows.

INT. ELEVATOR--DAY

The dinged metal doors shudder shut as Frank follows Mary

into the graffittied elevator. It jumps three feet upwards,

stops, then continues, metal scraping concrete at each passing

floor.

The elevator jerks to a stop; the doors open.

INT. SIXTEENTH FLOOR--MORNING

Mary turns to Frank:

Mary pushes the bell at 16M. KANITA, 25, wearing a paisley

robe, opens the doors and says:

The elevator doors close on Frank.

INT. LOBBY--MORNING

Frank paces past the sleeping security guard, checks his

watch.

He presses the elevator button.

INT. THE OASIS--MORNING

The door to 16M opens:

Frank pushes past her.

CY COATES, 45, light-skinned black, stands in the smoky room.

Dark curtained windows block the sunlight; a dirty fish tank

casts a green glow across the beat-up furniture.

A large framed photo of a volcano hangs over the couch.

Kanita sits on the sofa next to an unshaven sleeping man.

Coates gestures:

Frank heads down the hall toward the rear of the apartment;

Coates follows. They pass an open door where inside TIGER, a

fat man with dried blood running down the corner of his mouth,

sits punching computer keys at a desk.

In the NEXT ROOM Mary lies on a mattress on the floor, yellow

sheet pulled up to her neck. Frank leans over her:

Mary blindly swings her fist at him, collapses unconscious

back to the mattress.

Coates escorts Frank back to the LIVING ROOM.

Cy sits across from him, pulls out a pin-sized joint, lights

it:

Frank watches as Kanita gets up, walks to the kitchen. Coates

places the pill in his hand.

No language, only brute power. You can't believe how relaxing

it is.

Kanita returns with a glass of water, gives it to Frank;

Coates stands, feeds the fish.

Frank swallows the white pill, drinks the water. He places

his arms on the chair:

Frank looks around the smoke-filled room. Kanita walks over,

extends her hand.

Kanita runs her hand across his shoulders. Frank starts to

nod. The room getting warm and dark. His eyelids lower: sleep,

precious sleep.

FRANK'S ROSE DREAM

Voices and sounds echo through the purple haze as Frank's

mind drifts in time and space. Action and sounds slow, speed

up, distort--intermix with the Oasis--as Frank goes back:

This is how it begins: the last time, the first time ...

Larry exits 13 Zebra as Rose, 18, wearing a yellow rain

slicker, falls to her knees in the miasmic dream stank, onto

the sidewalk, then onto her back. From forty feet away Frank,

seeing her reach for a parking meter, grabbing the tube kit,

running.

Rose gasping for breath, Frank falling to his knees, lifting

her tongue, prying her teeth apart, slipping the blade between

her lips--Rose not breathing: waiting for her to inhale,

shooting the tube down her vocal cords. Larry listening to

lung sounds, belly sounds:

Frank pulling the tube out, trying again.

Somewhere: CY Coates laughs.

Rose going blue, pulse rate dropping, EKG Slowing: Jim

Morrison singing.

Larry ripping the tube from Frank's hands, taking over,

pushing Frank aside, trying CPR, intubating Rose, air moving

into her lungs--it doesn't matter. Rose is gone.

Frank hears a SCREAM: it's his own voice.

INT. THE OASIS--DAY

Frank standing screaming in the living room. CY walking over,

Kanita standing, the sleeping man awaking.

Frank bends over in pain.

Frank heads to where Mary sleeps.

In the BACK BEDROOM, Frank picks up Mary, hoists her over

his shoulder fireman-style and heads out.

Frank opens the front door--no one stops him--exits.

INT. STUYVESANT LOBBY--DAY

The elevator doors open. Frank sets Mary on her feet.

She says weaving out of the front doors.

EXT. STUYVESANT TOWN--DAY

Mary walks a Few steps into the plaza, stumbles; Frank catches

her.

Mary heads up the avenue: past baby strollers, postal workers,

deliverymen.

Frank walking slightly beside and behind, lights a cigarette.

They stop at a three-story brick apartment building.

She unlocks the door. He follows her in.

INT. MARY'S APT. BUILDING--DAY

Mary grabs the railing, heads up the stairs.

Mary opens the door to her first floor apartment; Frank

follows. The room is clean and feminine. Unframed water colors

stacked against the wall atop a desk. A black lab greets

Mary, she pets him. Frank slumps on the sofa.

Frank keels over onto his side, his head hitting a cushion,

eyes closed, dog licking his cheek.

He's asleep, the sound of her crying fading in his head.

INT. MARY'S APT.--NIGHT

FADE IN: a passing siren wakes Frank. He thinks back, looking

around the darkened room, realizes where he is. The dog comes

over, licks his hand.

He removes the blanket Mary has laid over him, stands:

Frank walks cautiously through the dark, finds a bathroom

lit by a glowing Mickey Mouse switch. He flips on the switch:

a string of green and red Christmas lights glow. Three types

of soap sit on the sink. He turns on the faucet:

INT. EMS GARAGE OFFICE--NIGHT

Frank standing at Captain Barney's desk.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT

Frank walks toward Sixteen XRay as Walls gets out of the

front seat. The EMS vehicle is dented and rusted, a relic of

wars and a hodgepodge of parts.

Frank makes a "be right back" gesture, walks into ER.

INT. MERCY ER--NIGHT

Saturday night at the Knife and Gun Club: the joint is

hopping, the sound system blaring.

Frank passing Griss holding back an angry Hispanic man with

a bleeding arm:

Frank walks over to unit three, Mr. Burke's cubicle, pulls

back the curtain. Burke lies sedated, wired and tubed. Frank

leans over, feels Burke's pulse.

Frank's expression changes--he looks at the EKG monitor:

green lines seem to be at war, normal beats marching in

formation against wild-looking rhythms, the heart working

hard and not getting much done.

Burke's face twitches.

Frank turns up the EKG amplitude:

The alarms start to ring: EKG first, followed by the bells

off the oxygen saturation monitor and low drone of ventilator.

Intern Milagros pulling open the curtain behind Frank, shaking

her head, reaching for the defribilator paddles, handing

them to Frank. He steps back:

Frank shocks Burke: his body convulses.

The heartbeats on monitor return to regular formation.

Frank, despondent, not listening, walks away.

EXT. AVENUE A--NIGHT

16 XRay driving past a strip of night clubs and restaurants:

the sidewalks full of young people laughing, jostling,

embracing.

Walls driving. In addition to the EMS two-way and AM radio,

Walls keeps a police band walkie-talkie open. He looks into

the back of the bus:

Frank places an open drug box on the stretcher, pulls out an

IV set, wraps a tourniquet around his left bicep.

Frank crawls back in front carrying the IV bag, puts on the

oxygen mask, turns on the main tanks, takes a deep hit.

Walls hits the sirens, accelerates.

Walls turns up the radio, drums his hands against the wheel.

Frank pulls the IV needle out of his arm, searches the glove

compartment:

16 XRay lurches forward.

EXT. AVENUE C AND 4TH--NIGHT

16 XRay brakes to a stop before a duster of derelicts, junkies

and night people. Two DRUNKS are trying to help a friend

with CUT WRISTS.

Cut Wrists gets up, leans against the ambulance, shaking.

Walls escorts Cut Wrists into the back of the bus, pulls a

plastic electric patch off the EKG monitor. Frank joins them.

Cut Wrists nods.

Cut Wrists bolts out of the back of the bus, trips as he

hits the ground, runs down the street, turning the corner

still holding the patch to his forehead.

EXT. EL TORO DE ORO--NIGHT

16 XRay parked outside a fluorescent chrome and plastic coffee

shop.

INT. EL TORO DE ORO--NIGHT

Frank smoking at a formica table, his walkie-talkie upright

next to an ashtray. Walls returns with two espressos as the

Dispatcher rattles on.

Frank doesn't answer. Tom shines his mini-flashlight in

Frank's eyes:

Frank watches a hooker on the sidewalk. Two street punks

dripping gold and attitude head the opposite direction: one

turns his head, looks at Frank--it's Rose. The Rose face.

Frank getting up, grabbing his walkie and coffee, heading

out.

EXT. HOUSTON--NIGHT

Frank at the wheel, driving high speed: radio full volume.

Tom hears something on the police band: a call for units to

Stuyvesant Town.

But they're not listening--Frank's off to Stuyvesant Town.

EXT. STUYVESANT TOWN--NIGHT

Police cars, fire engines, a massive Emergency Service rescue

truck all flashing dome lights on the street, on the plaza

surrounding Cy Coates' building: cops, Swat team, spotlights,

onlookers.

Frank and Tom, getting out, looking up: the spotlit figure

of Cy Coates, thirteen floors above, suspended on a railing,

legs dangling.

INT. LOBBY--NIGHT

Frank and Tom, lugging their equipment, meet up with cops,

firemen and their rescue equipment.

The Sergeant leads a half dozen cops and firemen up the stairs

as the elevator doors open. Tom, Frank and two COPS squeeze

inside.

As the elevator doors close.

INT. THE OASIS--NIGHT

Frank steps out with the officers. The door to 16M is open:

Kanita lies half in, half out the door, a perfectly round

hole above her eye, splinters of bone and blood down the

side of her nose.

The carpet is soaked with water; shards of glass lie amid

dying fish. A cop returns from the rear hall of the apartment,

stands before photo of volcano:

Frank, looking over the balcony, sees Cy three floors below.

Frank heads clown the stairs.

INT. THIRTEENTH FLOOR--NIGHT

Frank emerges on thirteen: Walls, the panting Police Sergeant

and team have overturned the furniture in 13M: the absent

owners would have trouble recognizing it. The floor is covered

with gas-powered metal cutters, acetylene torches, ropes,

harnesses.

A trail of blood leads to where Walls stands, Tiger's prone

body behind him:

Frank goes over to Coates as two cops strap on harnesses. CY

hangs impaled on the railing, a steel spike passing through

his hip. Glowing in spotlights from thirteen floors below,

Frank takes Coates' vital signs, gently presses his abdomen:

Frank, IV bag in his teeth, putting an oxygen mask on Coates:

Cops behind click on harnesses ("You in?" "Yeah" "You in?")

attach straps to pitons they've hammered into the brick wall,

bring out metal cutters and torches.

Frank passes the IV bag to one of the cops, holds Coates,

head. CY relaxes his neck as SPARKS splay like fireworks

beneath him, fall to the concrete.

Frank looks: the spike in Coates' hip starting to glow red.

CY stretches his hand toward the skyline, his face backlit

by raining acetylene sparks:

The torch breaks the spike free: Frank and Coates FREE FALL

three feet, jerk to a stop. Cy yelps. The crowd cheers from

below.

Frank now grabbing, holding Coates tightly--Frank's hands

the only thing keeping Coates from falling--as the cops hoist

them up.

The cops lift Frank and Coates onto the balcony.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT

16 XRay parked in front.

INT. MERCY CRITICAL CARE--NIGHT

Frank walking out of the restroom wiping water off his face,

looking at the gurney where Coates lies on his side, metal

spike still sticking through his hip, IV line running to his

arm, eyes closed. Nurses walk past Coates: he's stabilized,

waiting his turn. CY, take a number.

Frank spots Hazmat at Burke's cubicle, walks over.

The ventilator alarm goes off as Burke pulls at his

restraints.

Nurse Crupp walks briskly over, injects needle into one of

Burke's IV bags.

Burke's voice speaks in Frank's head:

Frank helps Hazmat force in a bite stick. The monitor alarm

cuts off, the ventilator starts up again, pumping air in,

pulling air out.

INT. MERCY WAITING ROOM--NIGHT

Frank notices Mary Burke in waiting area with her brother,

mother and several others. Gone is the lost daughter, the

scared junkie. Tonight she's dressed for strength: leather

jacket, blue jeans, black work boots.

Frank greets them.

Mary whispers something to her mother, joins him.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--NIGHT

Frank offers her a cigarette. Walls waits in 16 XRay, now

parked at the curb.

Walls flashes 16 XRay's headlights, hits the horns.

Frank, his heart pounding, steps closer to her.

He leans as if to kiss her.

He places his hand on her shoulder, kisses her lightly, walks

toward Walls and the waiting ambulance.

EXT. FIRST AVE--NIGHT

16 XRay is cooking now--Walls at the wheel, Frank shotgun,

passing a pint of whiskey back and forth: radio blasting--

INXS: "The Devil Inside."

Frank looks at a group of girls exiting an after-hours club:

every one a Rose. Rose faces.

Walls hits the accelerator: the old bus jerks forward:

Tom hits the siren as he swings wildly around a stopped cab

and its turban-headed driver:

Walls turns onto a cross street, spots Noel standing by a

Mustang, baseball bat on his shoulder. He wears yesterday's

blood-stained clothes, cut tires tied to his shoulders and

elbows, chest and belly wrapped with steel wire.

Walls slows as Noel lifts the bat, swings it into the

Mustang's front window, shattering it, puts the bat down,

using it like a cane as he walks to the next parked car.

Noel reaches the next car, a Bronco, carefully hefts the

bat, smashes it through the windshield.

Walls slips out, crouches beside the bus. Frank, stepping

out, walks over to Noel as he whacks the bat through the

hatch of a Pinto.

Noel hauls back, lays into a Volvo: glass shatters. Noel

holds the bat out, extends handle towards Frank:

Frank, intrigued by Noel's suggestion, has forgotten Walls'

plan. He takes the bat as Tom sneaks behind Noel, crouching.

Frank cocks the baseball bat, relishing every moment, swings

into the Volvo's side window. Shattered glass flies on his

hands and clothes.

Walls, fed up with this, stands:

Noel, seeing Walls, grabs the bat, flees down an alley.

Walls takes off after Noel. Frank, taking out his flashlight,

enters second alley, walks down dark stairs which hopefully

circle around to Noel.

INT. ALLEY--NIGHT

Mini-flashlight leading the way, Frank steps gingerly down

the refuse-strewn alley. Ahead: footsteps.

He kicks something, thinking it's trash, looks down; a body

rustles, pair of sleeping eyes look up.

Suddenly everything seems silent. He passes a row of glowing

red doors. Shadows flash in the distance. He hears a woman

crying, shoots his flashlight her direction: nothing.

Frank hears the voice again:

Shadows like hands extend against the wall ahead.

Frank moves toward the reaching arms. The shadows swing like

baseball bats. Noel SCREAMS.

Suddenly, before him, a blurry mass of bloody dreadlocks--

Noel goes flying to the ground, Walls standing over him

swinging the bat, hitting him, killing him.

Frank stands back, watching Walls and Noel like some static

black and white TV screen from his childhood. Noel, trying

to protect himself, cries out.

Frank charges forward into Walls, sending Tom, the baseball

bat flying. Walls on the ground. Frank bends over Noel: Noel's

face covered with blood, gasping for air, blowing red bubbles,

convulsing.

Walls pushes Noel into unit one. Frank looks over to unit

three--Burke's cubicle is empty.

Frank nods, walks out. Behind, Walls helps Hazmat and Crupp

place Noel on a bed.

INT. ROOM 212--NIGHT

Frank Pierce walks down the hospital corridor, steps into

room 212.

Burke lies, tubed, wired and tied to life support. Blue light

comes through the window. On the EKG monitor: a slow steady

green endless line: up, down.

Frank takes a moment, exhales.

One by one, Frank flips off the machines. The clanging EKG

ALARM is followed by the bass honking of the respirator alarm

and two tweetering IV-drip alarms.

Frank, holding Burke's pulse, watches the life go out of

him. Hearing commotion outside, Frank flips the machines

back on: the EKG monitor is flatline.

A FLOOR NURSE rushes in, feels for Burke's pulse.

Frank steps back as the Nurse hits the emergency switch.

Dr. Hazmat, out of breath, enters:

Frank pulls out the paddles, applies them to Burke's chest:

Frank, knowing it's futile, shocks Burke: no result.

Frank goes through the motions, pretending to shock Burke.

The flatline doesn't waver.

Frank backs out the door as a nurse and intern enter.

In the corridor Frank listens as the activity becomes less

urgent.

Hazmat steps out:

Frank nods.

EXT. MERCY EMERGENCY--DAYBREAK

Frank walks out of Our Lady of Mercy, heads down the side

street. He passes Tom Walls wielding a giant flashlight,

smashing Sixteen XRay's headlights, denting the hood and

side windows.

EXT. MARY'S APT. BUILDING--DAY

Frank rings the buzzer. Mary, sleepy-voiced, answers:

INT. FIRST FLOOR--DAY

Mary, wearing a burgundy robe, opens the door. Frank says

nothing. Her expression darkens.

Frank looks at her again: it's not Mary, it's Rose. Mary has

Rose's face.

Frank nods.

Rose/Mary opens the door wider, closes it behind Frank.

INT. MARY'S BEDROOM--DAY

Rose is Mary again: she and Frank lie clothed on her bed. He

leans his head against her breast as she holds him. His eyes

close: sleep.

