DUSK, OR NIGHT HAS ONLY BARELY FALLEN.

A huge clock marks 7:55 p.m. (The clock belongs to some landmark

building, to be determined). Immediately following, the building goes

dark.

Establishing shot of the Eiffel Tower, lit. Suddenly, all the lights

go out.

The same thing happens with the Granada's Alhambra, Seville's Giralda

Tower, the Guggenheim at Bilbao, the Gate of Alcala. All these well-

known architectonic wonders turn dark, abruptly. (Beauty that

disappears suddenly, beauty that's extinguished and envelops us in

darkness.)

1. HARRY CAINE'S HOME. INT. NIGHT.

Harry (fifty years old) sits, as if he were waiting, without hurry,

immobile and patient in his study next to his desk, as if it were the

thing keeping him company. He isn't doing anything. He lets time

take its course. His silence is broken by the sound of footsteps that

come and go. At first we can't see who the footsteps belong to, until

they stop.

In the living room, a few meters from Harry, Judit stops. She, too,

is shrouded in darkness. She looks at her wristwatch, the second hand

moves from left to right on the watch face. Judit (forty-eight, looks

younger) breathes, impatient. (She is dressed soberly, in a dignified

and practical manner).

She approaches a window that looks out onto the street. Everything

outside is also in darkness. The building in front is just a dark

mass. She looks to the end of the street. Almost all the buildings

visible from the window are dark, the Gate of Alcala in the background

is also not lit. Without turning, she says to Harry:

Harry is still sitting, inert, absorbed by his thoughts. The whole

house is in darkness, only the ambient clarity of the night comes

through the windows, curtains drawn back.

Judit heads slowly toward the kitchen. On the wall there is a Vitra

clock, to which she gives a cursory glance.

She turns on the faucet and fills a glass of water. From her pocket,

she removes a tiny heart made of black nacar shell and rimmed in

silver. She opens it. She grabs a small pink pill. She takes it.

She glances once more at the stylized design of the Vitra clock. The

minute hand nears 8 p.m.

On a windowsill (or on the kitchen table) there is an open newspaper.

The exposed page displays an article about the dangers of global

warming. An international date has been convened for a five minute

blackout at 8 p.m.

Standing in the kitchen, Judit, poised and tense, looks up at the spot

where the clock is. The stillness of all the elements comprising the

frame make it seem like a painting. She waits until the seconds hand

completes its cycle and it's 8 o'clock sharp.

Swiftly, Judit powers the central electrical switchboard, which is in

the kitchen. The kitchen lights up, the refrigerator emits its

characteristic sound. The lamps in the living room also light up.

(Low-hanging lamps that make the light bounce. The house is awash in

a special luminous atmosphere  dense, translucent, with darkened

zones). All the furniture is flush with the walls. There are some

paintings hanging and a rug on the ground, everything is of the kind

of quality that denotes good personal taste.

Upon the light's return, Judit exhales a profound sigh of relief.

She moves toward the window where she was standing earlier and

contemplates how, in the building across the way, the windows begin to

blink, in square patterns of light.

2. FLASHBACK. 1994. LANZAROTE HOSPITAL. INT. DAY.

The light's return is contagious, a true spectacle, which ends with a

blinding light that floods the screen.

It will probably be a close-up of the sun.

That very sun enters through another window, which is not that of

Harry's house, nor that of the building across the way. It is the

window of a hospital room (perhaps a sign should specify that the

following scene occurs "Fourteen years earlier")

The hospital is on Lanzarote Island, in the Canary Islands. The scene

occurs fourteen years earlier. The characters are the same. Harry

and Judit.

Harry lies in bed, his head completely bandaged. Sunlight enters

through the window.

Judit is seated on the bed. She holds his hand and pleads, worried

and loving:

The character to whom Judit refers as Mateo, (the same one that in the

previous scene we have called Harry), has a recent wound, either on

his arm or on his hands, along with his head, which is completely

covered by bandages.

Mateo and Harry are the same person, the difference is the fourteen

years that separate them. Harry, in the present (2008), is fifty

years old. In `94, the time period when the flashback takes place, he

was thirty-six. Let's say that when he was thirty-six, Harry was

called Mateo. The character has two names, which his own voice-off

explains, while we observe what his day-to-day consists of in 2008.

3. IMAGES THAT ACCOMPANY THE VOICE -OFF. HARRY CAINE'S DAILY

RITUALS.

Despite his fifty years and his blindness, Harry is a man that keeps

himself in great physical shape.

Harry's Home. Interior. Day.

In the morning: he places a CD in a player. By himself, he selects

and starts the program on a treadmill. He steps on and begins

exercising.

He takes a shower ("Mateo Blanco and Harry Caine shared the same

person, me, but a time came when, all of a sudden..."), the camera

pans over various parts of his body under the running water, dense

waves of white foam slide down his skin, as if it was a landscape.

The hangers have Braille-stickers that indicate the characteristic of

the clothing they hold. (All the closets have sliding doors)

In his bedroom, he opens the closet and looks for the clothes he will

wear. Despite the fact that he cannot see himself, he stands in front

of a mirror. He smiles, pleased with his appearance .

Everything in the house is rigorously ordered. All that Harry needs

to ascertain the identity of the things around him is his touch.

He exits onto the street.

4. HARRY'S STREET. EXT. DAY. PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.

Harry traverses (aided by an umbrella?) the pedestrian crossing. When

he reaches the opposite sidewalk, the credits appear on the black and

white stripes that mark the crossing. The crossway is clear of

pedestrians so that only cars pass through (not many) and as they do,

they run over the letters of the credits, making them disappear, in

pieces. On a different stripe, a new title appears and as it does, it

is run over and destroyed by another car. Like this, successively.

5. SIDEWALK ACROSS FROM HARRY'S BUILDING. EXT. DAY.

Just on the sidewalk across from where Harry lives, there is a news-

stand, and next to it, perhaps on the nearest corner, a bar.

Harry buys the newspaper at the news-stand. This is part of his daily

routine. He greets the attendant familiarly. He has the kind of face

that provokes pity. He grabs the newspaper, folds it, and places it

under his arm.

Cut to.

6. BAR ACROSS THE WAY. INT. DAY.

He enters the bar. He leans down somewhere on the bar table. Just as

soon as he sees him, he is approached by his Waiter Friend, an

approachable guy, somewhere in his forties, who is helped by a South

American waitress, wearing her makeup since the early part of the

morning, whom he is obviously screwing. He brings him a coffee. All

of these actions are part of a daily ritual.

RETURN TO SEC. 5

Harry exits the bar and becomes immersed in the different noises of

the street, the passersby, their different sounds and corporeal odors.

Auditory life. The camera swirls around his head. At first he hears

all the noises, indistinctly mixed, and then he begins to separate

them. He selects one he likes, the rest of the sounds of the street

disappear or their volume is lowered. Girls, cars, high heels, the

smells of different ethnicities. A multi-racial street. Harry

selects an odor (the body of a woman, whose aroma appears and

disappears), Harry follows it, having also singled out the sound of

her heels. He loses them. He finds them again.

He walks self-assuredly, without tripping either on the urban

furniture or the people. He leans, lightly, on his umbrella, which he

uses as a cane. At first glance he doesn't appear blind ...

He reaches a pedestrian crossing. Nearby, he recognizes the odor

which had attracted him, he follows its trace until he reaches the

sidewalk. The odor emanates from a young Girl, just next to him,

waiting before the crosswalk. Harry searches with the tip of the

umbrella, until he brushes her shoe. He excuses himself, as if the

contact had been inadvertent. The girl regards him. Harry then takes

one step forward, intent on crossing the street, the cars come very

close to him, almost running him over. (A real sense of danger). The

light is red for pedestrians. The Girl takes him by the arm, pulling

him toward her, frightened.

7. MATEO-HARRY'S STREET. EXT. DAY. PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.

They make it through the crosswalk. She is not holding his arm (but

almost), Harry doesn't need it. He knows the surroundings well.

They reach the other sidewalk.

Harry thanks her for her help, the Girl observes him the entire time,

intrigued and curious.

The Girl accepts, delighted. Tall, thin, attractive, modern, and

inexpressive like a model, this is what the Girl is like.

8. CONTINUED. BUILDING'S ENTRANCE. EXT. DAY.

Once at the entrance, Harry invites her to come up so that she can

read aloud the newspaper to him. The Girl checks her watch, and ends

up accepting.

9. LIVING ROOM, MATEO'S HOME. INT. DAY.

The same living room we've seen in Sequence 1. There is very little

light.

The Girl turns on a table lamp.

Cut to.

Harry is sitting on a sofa and she is in front of him, on an armchair.

She opens the newspaper down the middle, before she reads anything she

directs a brief but intense glance at Harry.

She reads about the percentage of those in Madrid who abided by the

blackout that was organized in the name of global change. She turns a

few pages and stops. Reads as if for herself:

Turns more pages.

The girl begins to describe herself, at first a little tentative.

(Her measurements? She smiles. She knows them by heart.)

She describes herself. The color of her eyes. Her hair. Her skin.

How she's dressed, while she traces over him with her glance (When she

speaks of her eyes, we see his eyes; when she speaks of her mouth, we

see his, etc). Her gaze stops at Harry's crotch. Harry can feel her

watching him. The situation seems perfectly natural.

Harry approaches her (he knows she's right in front of him). With his

hands, he places a brief caress on each of the parts the Girl has just

described. The eyes, the hair, the mouth. He lowers his hands until

they fall, spread, on her breasts. It is as though the blind man

could gaze at her with his fingers and palms. He rests his head on

the Girl's breast, pulls down her bra straps and he begins to savor

her breasts, delicately. Harry's cell phone rings, but he ignores it,

doesn't pick up.

Cut to.

10. CONTINUED. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY.

They make love on the sofa.

Cut to.

The Girl asks for the bathroom, Harry gestures with his hand in its

direction. Half-naked, with some of her clothes in her hand, the Girl

heads for the bathroom. Harry, still sitting on the same sofa, begins

to dress and to smooth down his clothes, without hurry.

11. CONTINUED. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY.

The doorbell rings. Twice in a row. Immediately following, the key

is inserted into the keyhole, from the outside.

Someone is opening it.

Harry rises. Before he arrives to the foyer, the door is already

open. In the middle of the doorway, a woman, Judit (the same one who

had been with him during the blackout of the opening sequence).

Harry finishes tucking his shirt, barefoot. Judit closes the door

slowly and surveys him up and down with inquisitive eyes, which he

cannot see but one could say that he can guess. He smiles.

The sound of a running faucet emerging from the bathroom distracts

Judit; first the sound, then the immediate appearance of the Girl.

Both women look at each other and are surprised, despite their attempt

to hide it. Judit appears more annoyed than surprised. After a very

brief silence:

Judit (forty-eight years old, seems younger, is dressed in an informal

and sober manner, little color, etc., her hair is pulled back, parted

in the middle, her attitude is that of a guardian), she puts away the

key to the door while she gazes sternly at the young woman.

The Girl, very uncomfortable, quickly vanishes.

12. CONTINUED. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY.

Once alone:

Judit changes the topic so that Harry may also change his tone. She

turns off the table lamp and she opens the window drapes that lead to

the terrace.

As he speaks, Harry has made his way back to the sofa, without the use

of a cane, he knows by heart the landscape of the house, which he

walks through as if he could see. If anything, he touches any given

piece of furniture with the tip of his fingers, as if to ascertain

whether it's still there. He walks both with ease, and with the

characteristic rigidity of blind people.

He picks up the socks from the floor and slips them on (the newspaper

is open on the floor). He puts his shoes on. Judit watches him for a

moment, and then turns toward the window.

13. JUDIT'S POINT OF VIEW. THE SIDEWALK ACROSS THE WAY. HARRY'S

STREET. EXT. DAY.

She observes how, on the sidewalk across the way, the Girl enters the

main door of the building just next to the news-stand where Harry buys

his newspaper. From the window she can make out that it's an

important Modeling Agency.

RETURN TO SEQ. 12

Judit is still looking out the window, her back to Harry, when she

hears him say:

Judit turns to Harry, surprised but masking it with her voice.

Judit nods plainly with her head. Silence. Ernesto Martel's death

doesn't bring good memories to either of them.

14. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY. CONTINUED.

The doorbell rings. It's Diego, Judit's son, who doubles as Harry's

typist and co-scriptwriter. He is a special kid, twenty-five years

old. Baggy-eyed, a weary aspect, but he overflows with charm.

Dresses as a modern kid, but not obnoxiously so. He speaks

delicately, an attitude uncommon for someone his age.

He greets his mother.

Judit looks at him perplexed. For some reason, Harry has his back

turned. This happens many times.

Judith listens, affected and disoriented. She looks at her son as if

she were looking for help. Diego stops thumbing through a magazine in

order to listen to Harry and to witness his mother's reaction. She

wasn't ready for Harry to counter with such a shocking narrative.

Judit would like to say that when she spoke of a commercial script

this is not what she had in mind, but she doesn't want to come off

rude. Diego keeps watching them. Her mother appears oddly cornered,

until she remembers a past comment of Harry's, that suits her just

RIGHT:

They hear the doorbell ring, two or three times. For Judit, it's the

best way to escape the conversation.

Diego settles on the armchair, in front of his laptop. On the other

side of the table sits the computer that is specially programmed for

Harry. Diego powers his laptop. Harry heads for the work table. And

he sits in front of Diego.

Diego obeys while we hear Judit approaching the door and, before she

opens it, someone opens it from the other side. We see the document's

text (a script) scrolling, fleetingly, over Diego's computer screen.

At the door, Judit finds Mariacruz, the Latin American maid, who also

has her own key to the house. She is carrying two shopping bags.

Judit gives her some directive (about the windows, the curtains, the

kitchen furniture, the food, the floors, things to be dry cleaned ,

etc.) and she leaves, saying goodbye to Harry and Diego with a simple

"Boys, I'm leaving. Goodbye!"

15. NIGHT. BAR WITH MUSIC. INT. BOOTH.

Diego chooses a track that functions as background music to the three

night sequences that follow, although it's not absolutely necessary.

He works at a modern bar (not very large), as a D.J. He spends most

of the time inside a small booth, which only a few friends access.

Alex, his same age, enters.

Alex takes three CDs out of his jacket.

16. HARRY-MATEO HOME. DEN. NIGHT

At that moment, Harry is in front the computer (a special computer,

sonorous, set up for Harry, with Braille signs jutting from the

keyboard). He attempts to "read" some digital newspaper, its contents

can be heard spoken by a very unpleasant synthetic voice. His search

produces annoying and strange sounds. Harry continously makes

mistakes, but that's the way to do it.

He manages to get into El Pais, the obituary section. He listens to a

list. He finally finds the news of Ernesto Martel's death. He listens

to the headline.

The sound of a mobile phone ringing interrupts him.

17. JUDIT'S OFFICE. INT. NIGHT.

It's Judit, from her office.

In front of Judit, on the other side of the table, full of papers, is

the head of production and someone from the American production. They

are trying to decide on the budget.

From the ashtrays full of cigarettes, the bottles of water and the

cups of coffee, one assumes that they must have been at this task for

many hours. (One should be able to see the layout of the shooting

schedule, something visual). The American production can be heard in

the background.

(Seq. 16 and 17 run in parallel)

She greets Harry.

Harry touches the small MP3, much easier than to listen to the digital

newspaper. He doesn't want to tell her that he is attempting to

listen to Ernesto Martel's obituary, so he tells her what he will be

doing next.

Once he hangs up his mobile, Harry returns to his computer, this is

when we actually hear the biographical sketch of the deceased

financier.

Fade to black.

During the fade to black, we continue to hear the biography. In

voice-off.

18. THE BUILDING'S ENTRANCE. EXT. DAY. 1990.

A modern building in the financial district. A sign displays the name

of an important financial company (M. Capital) and the year when the

action takes place, 1990.

19. 1990. ERNESTO MARTEL'S OFFICE. MODERN SKYSCRAPER. INT. DAY.

The end of the voice-off is heard over the image of Ernesto Martel

himself, alive, attending to a phone call, while we hear the last

words of his obituary, in off.

The interior of Ernesto Martel's office: elegant, ostentatious, and

decorated without concern for cost. Through the windows one can

witness a cosmopolitan Madrid, from whose soil skyscrapers begin to

bud.

Ernesto Martel, almost sixty, impeccable suit, settles a conversation

with the Transportation Minister.

Framed photographs sit on a piece of accessory furniture, one of him

with his two children, a boy and a girl, who do not resemble one

another. They have different mothers.

The walls are decorated by an abstract painting belonging to the

avant-garde group El Paso.

Cut to.

20. ERNESTO MARTEL'S OFFICE BUILDING. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES.

INT. DAY. 1990.

On the same floor. Fairly close to the boss' office, divided by

modern and ample cubicles, we find some of the company's employees.

His secretary, Magdalena (her diminutive is Lena), is speaking on the

phone with a look of contained alarm. Personal problems.

In her early thirties, Lena is dressed soberly, almost excessively so

(as if she were attempting to project a maturity, effectiveness and

responsibility that she not yet possesses). She is a very beautiful

woman, on whose countenance the passing of time has begun to leave its

mark. She has a small mole, slightly raised, next to the seam of the

lips, and another one on the top edge of the nose. She could do more

with her physique, modernize it, but this is not what she aims for.

Her face reminds us of one of the heroines of the American film noir,

brought up to date. She possesses the turbulent and at once

translucent beauty of Gene Tierney and the bored disdain of Linda

Darnell (in "Fallen Angels"). Lena is a splendid fallen angel.

We can't hear what she says, but judging from her reaction, the

content of her conversation is dramatic. Her eyes flash with

indignation and anger.

RETURN TO 19.

Ernesto Martel calls Lena, his personal secretary, by way of an

internal line.

RETURN TO 20.

Magdalena interrupts her conversation with "I'll call you later", as

the indicator lights up, announcing another call on the line. She

pushes on the button corresponding to that phone call and she hears

her boss' voice summoning her. "Yes, sir", she responds, promptly.

She gets up from the table. She dries her eyes and nose with a

Kleenex, grabs a pen and a rectangular writing block and heads to

Ernesto Martel's office.

21. ERNESTO MARTEL'S OFFICE. INT. DAY. 1990

Despite the fact that he's dealing in grand-scale business, there are

few documents for him to consult on his desk. It gives the sense that

for the most important part of his job (grand scale speculation),

Ernesto deals directly. He is the great intermediary without

intermediaries.

Magdalena enters. He invites her to take a seat. She complies

without altogether controlling her nervousness; professionally

detached, she attempts to hide the tension that the recent, and

truncated, telephone conversation has caused her.

Magdalena opens her writing pad, ready to write, looking serious. Her

pen drops to the floor. Ernesto M. observes her.

But it's not true. Lena looks agitated, despite her efforts to hide

it.

Lena looks at him, serious and hurt:

22. SURROUNDINGS AND ENTRANCE, PUERTA DE HIERRO HOSPITAL. EXT.

DAY. 1990

It's a hot and sunny afternoon at the end of July. Lena arrives

inside a taxi to the entrance of Puerta de Hierro Hospital. On the

sidewalk, next to the entryway, her mother awaits, (chubby, tired,

defenseless and impatient, she's around sixty) next to her, a suitcase

and a huge plastic bag full of clothes. The mother is a small-town

woman, dignified and beaten. The shock provoked by the situation has

liberated her, if only momentarily, from falling into desperation.

Through the car's window, Lena can see her mother on the sidewalk, and

her ailing Father (a man in his sixties, very debilitated and aged),

sitting on a sofa in the foyer.

Lena tells the cab-driver to wait, and runs toward her mother. They

kiss.

The mother gestures for them to get away from the door, that way the

Father cannot see them.

The Mother looks at her without knowing what to say. She takes a

small handkerchief to her nose.

Lena refuses to accept the situation.

The father appears through the doors of the hospital entrance,

exhausted. He leans down to catch his breath. With a weak voice,

almost inaudible, he says to them:

Lena and the mother approach him, almost jubilant, hiding their sense

of helplessness and frustration.

Between the two women they help the father to the taxi that is waiting

for them nearby. They put him in the car. The man can hardly walk.

He is very thin, his bones jut out from under his ashen skin. He

walks crouched over.

The taxi pulls off.

23. PERIPHERAL HIGHWAY, MADRID. INSIDE THE TAXI. HIGHWAY. DAY.

He falters. He is too exhausted to speak.

Lena stares, completely wide-eyed with amazement.

24. PERIPHERAL NEIGHBORHOOD. EXT. DAY. 1990.

The taxi parks in front of a humble building, in one of those outlying

neighborhoods in the periphery of Madrid, a commuter town. Children,

women, street ambience. It's like a provincial town, transported to a

huge city that is in the midst of merciless development. At that hour

there are few people on the street.

The passage between this sequence and the next happens through the

doors of the car and the apartment, respectively.

The Father exits, aided by Lena and the Mother, when the door to the

taxi closes it's the door to the apartment that shuts, with all three

characters inside the entry hall.

25. LENA'S PARENTS' HOME. INT. DAY. 1990.

Lena locks the door from inside. It's a humble and small apartment,

Magdalena and her mother situate the man on the bed in the master

bedroom, in the most comfortable way possible.

The decor reflects the bad taste of the era, especially of that social

class, here and there a certain rural detail stands out. Antique

photographs of the grandparents. Photographs of the Father in his

policeman uniform, next to the Mother.

Over the headboard, there is a crucifix on the wall and perhaps a

thick, wooden rosary. Religious images on the nighstands. Attention

placed on the bedspread, the curtains, the dresser, the closet and the

walls. Everything is new, ugly period furniture. The effect

generated is of a somber kitsch.

Lena opens a dresser drawer, on top of it sits the picture of the

father in his policeman uniform, with the Mother. She finds a Star

9mm pistol. She grabs it and tries its weight, the mother sees her

and tells her to leave the weapon in its place. (Perhaps at that very

moment the mother is injecting the Father with morphine).

Cut to.

In the dinning hall, Lena hands her mother money so that she can buy

food and her father's medications.

The light that shines through the windows, covered with curtains of an

indefinite but slightly brilliant pattern, begins to fade.

Mother and daughter kiss.

25 A. LENA INSIDE A TAXI RETURNING TO MADRID. NIGHT.

While Lena was at her parent's apartment, night fell.

Lena departs lost in her thoughts, she can't shake off her parents'

situation. She shifts her eyes. She must find a solution, urgently.

She lights a cigarette. She looks at her wristwatch. She seems to

have made a decision. She looks out the window. She finds the inter-

urban landscape desolating.

25 B. NEIGHBORHOOD: PROSPERIDAD, VALLEGAS OR LA LATINA. EXT.

NIGHT.

The taxi stops in front of the building where Lena lives. She exits

the taxi and opens the door.

26. LENA'S HOME. (NEIGHBORHOOD: PROSPERIDAD, VALLEGAS OR LA

LATINA). INT. NIGHT. 1990.

Lena enters her apartment. A tiny studio, but charming. No sooner

has she dropped all that she is carrying, than she heads to the phone

and makes a call. The decor is agreeable. Little money, but well

spent. A poster of Hitchcock's "Vertigo" dominates one of the walls,

or a framed photochrom of Kim Novak in the film. There may be another

film reference (Jean Seberg and Romy Schneider). Lena, secretly, is a

cinephile.

27. MADAME MYLENE'S DEN. 1990. INT. NIGHT.

27. A. LENA'S HOME. INT. NIGHT.

(Alternating between both spaces)

Madame Mylene is a blonde woman, very dressed up, older (between fifty

and seventy), has had plastic surgery, and has not renounced her

womanhood. Despite the quality of her attire, her makeup and her

jewels, there is something about her appearance that is unequivocally

sinister and heartless. While she speaks she has a drink and smokes a

cigar. A man of "professional" appearance keeps her company. It's

the den of a high-class Madame. The den seems more practical than

feminine.

Her tone gives it away that she won't have the slightest problem

"finding something" for Lena.

Cut to.

28. LENA'S HOME. INT. NIGHT. 1990.

The telephone rings. Lena has her hair down, she has put makeup on

(in excess). She looks more attractive, but the makeup also gives her

a harder edge. She covers herself with a robe. She immediately grabs

the phone. She seems like a different woman, worldly and nocturnal.

29. LIVING ROOM, ERNESTO M.'S MANSION. INT. NIGHT.

We see Ernesto Martel, speaking on the phone, in one of the living

rooms of his mansion. He is dressed to go out, a drink in his hand.

He is alone, his tone is that of a man courting a woman.

Lena recognizes the voice, there is no doubt it's his. Despite the

shock she manages to bluff, categorical and quick:

Ernesto Martel doesn't believe her, but he plays along.

Lena hangs up, confused and irritated.

Calls again.

30. LENA'S HOME. INT. NIGHT AND

31. MADAME MYLENE'S DEN. INT. NIGHT. 1990

Lena dials Madame Mylene's number

Lena listens, furious and impotent.

Lena remains in silence, humiliated, cornered.

Lena doesn't respond. She hangs up the telephone.

32. LENA'S HOME. INT. DAY. 1990.

IN THE MORNING.

Magdalena is sleeping in her bed. The phone wakes her. It's her

mother, in the middle of a crying fit and panic attack.

The mother speech falters, she is very scared...

Before she calls an ambulance, Lena calls Ernesto Martel. They greet

each other. Ernesto does not pretend to be surprised, he comes across

cordially. He thinks this may be the continuation of their phone call

from the previous night.

Ernesto changes his tone. Now he is an all-powerful man, generous and

with every recourse at his fingertips.

Even though neither one of them mentions the phone conversation of the

night before, it is present on both of their minds.

33. MADRID STREETS. EXT. DAY. 1990

An ambulance traverses Madrid at full speed.

34. SURROUNDINGS AND ENTRANCE TO CLINICA DE LA LUZ. EXT. DAY.

1990

It arrives to the Emergency ward at the Clinica de la Luz. They carry

Lena's father in a stretcher, her mother alongside him.

35. CLINICA DE LA LUZ. HALLWAYS. INT. DAY. 1990

One of the hospital's hallways.

The Mother, Lena and Ernesto are waiting together on a row of chairs

next to a door. Dr. Blasco emerges, an eminent Surgeon Specialist.

An impenetrable man, he doesn't mince words. Getting information from

him is like pulling teeth. He is polite, but not accommodating in the

slightest.

The mother affirms with a gesture.

Lena and the Mother look at both men, anxiously.

The Mother also doesn't know what to say.

The Mother is not accustomed to so many privileges.

The doctor says goodbye to Ernesto Martel and the women, mechanically.

36. HALLWAYS CLINICA DE LA LUZ. INT. DAY. 1990

When the three are alone the Mother thanks Ernesto Martel for what he

has done for them. She looks at her daughter, in a knowing way, as if

she understands (and accepts, what else can she do!) the situation.

Lena complies. In effect, there is something urgent she must do: pay

the price for all those privileges. To pay the cost of her father's

life.

Ernesto and Lena walk to the other end of the hallway. Before she

enters the room, the Mother bids farewell to them with a look that's

sad, tired, but of fortitude.

The two figures slowly recede down the hallway, until they disappear

in a

Fade to black.

37. MATEO-HARRY'S HOME. RETURN TO 2008. INT. DAY.

From black.

The door to Harry's apartment. The doorbell rings. The house is

completely dark. Harry moves with his characteristic naturalness.

He is coming from the bathroom, his hair wet and wearing a robe.

He feels around until he finds the peephole. He opens it and reaches

his eye toward it, as if he could really see the person on the other

side. He is not waiting for anyone, so he hopes the visitor will

think he is watching, even if he can't see a thing.

A voice on the other side of the door responds:

Ray does not move. Neither does Harry. They both remain still and

mute on their respective sides of the door, waiting for the other to

do something. Ray is mortified about having asked the last question.

This time Ray steps away from the door and walks toward the elevator.

Cut to.

38. HARRY'S HOME. 2008. INT. DAY

At another point in the day.

Harry plays music (a CD with songs that Diego has selected for him,

expressly), he looks after the bonsai, or he waters the plants while

he listens to the radio. Harry touches the plants as well as the

bonsai delicately, with the tip of his fingers.

The phone rings.

Cut to.

39. HARRY-MATEO HOME. DEN. INT. DAY. 2008

(The next morning, Harry wears different clothes than in the previous

sequence and Ray X as well.)

The doorbell rings. It's Ray X. Mariacruz opens the door. Harry

waits for him while seated at his desk, one can hear the noises his

computer generates.

Ray X heads toward the den and introduces himself.

Harry stretches his hand and waits for the other man to find it and

shake it.

They shake hands.

(Perhaps the kitchen is lit and only the light from the window enters

the area where the conversation is taking place).

Ray watches Harry inquisitively. He observes everything, the

furniture, the wall-hangings and Harry's own body, shamelessly, taking

advantage of the fact that Harry cannot see him.

Mateo senses the heat of his visitor's gaze over his body.

Ray is thirty-five years old and his physique is somewhere between

freakish and bohemian but expensively dressed, hard to classify, thin,

with a beard. Only when he speaks he reveals his well-bred origin

(not excessively, nor parodically, just sufficiently evocative). He

is excited by the very fact of being there, it seems it is something

he has been desiring for some time.

He takes advantage of the fact that Harry cannot see him in order to

observe him without reserve.

During the conversation, Harry is not always sitting. At some point

he moves (to look for cigarettes, perhaps) and remains standing.

40. HARRY'S HOME. VESTIBULE AND KITCHEN. INT. DAY. 2008.

At this exact moment, Diego enters. Mariacruz opens the door for him.

Just in time to hear Ray's question.

40 A.

Diego goes to the kitchen. Harry has heard him, he knows he's there,

if he hasn't called him it's because he doesn't need him.

Ray X measures his words, it's very important to him and he doesn't

want to do so hastily.

Harry does not allay his doubt.

Harry registers what he has just heard.

41. CONTINUED.

He calls Diego. The boy responds in that instant, he was in the

kitchen, waiting for Harry to call him.

Ray X will not give up, so he writes his telephone number on a piece

of paper and places it in his hand.

Harry is still standing, with the piece of paper in his hand. Diego

observes both men.

Ray gets up.

Diego accompanies him to the door. And closes it behind him.

Harry opens his desk's drawer and places the piece of paper with Ray's

telephone number inside. He rummages through the drawer's interior

until he finds a key. He grabs it.

42. CONTINUED.

Harry and Diego are now alone, in the den. Ruminating over Ray X's

visit and the story he was proposing Harry.

Diego opens the drawer with the key Harry has given him. The drawer

is full of different groups of photographs and various objects mixed

in a certain order. There is a black notebook. A box with Mexican

handicrafts. Some 1980s postcards as well some from other decades,

some movie postcards, some others of exotic landscapes... Some of the

groups of photographs are sorted into envelopes, boxes or transparent

binders. For Diego it's like looking into a treasure chest. It has

been many years since that drawer has been opened. This was out of

respect, not from lack of curiosity, Diego would never do so behind

Harry's back.

After tossing aside various envelopes, Diego finds a lot of

photographs of the shooting, dated `94. He takes them out of their

envelope.

He shuffles through them, until he pauses at one.

Harry is perturbed by the confirmation of his doubts. He would have

preferred to be mistaken.

Diego returns the different sets of photographs to their place, inside

the drawer a photo appears of Lena's face, in close-up. It's the same

woman who appears in sequences 20 through 36.

The drawer closes, darkness engulfs its interior, drowning Lena's

image, soon reborn in the next sequence.

43. HOME, ERNESTO MARTEL SENIOR. (1992)

Out of the darkness, Lena's image emerges, the year is `92: A close-

up of the woman, looking at herself in the mirror, touching up her

makeup. She grabs a dress by a famous designer of the time and puts

it on.

A few meters away, in the bedroom, Ernesto buttons up his fly, after

tucking in his shirt tail. The scene is that of a wealthy couple, who

get along.

They are preparing to attend a concert. Ernesto is a big fan of

classical music.

Lena looks rejuvenated and more refined. Her life and her facial skin

have both improved since the first time we see her in Martel's office.

The moles have disappeared from her face. Her demeanor is still adult,

that of a young woman who has experienced life.

Ernesto Martel frequently rests his gaze on her, fascinated, it's hard

for him to believe that "such beauty" belongs to him.

44. CONTINUED.

The phone rings. Ernesto Senior picks up the handset. His relaxed

countenance changes the second he hears the voice on the other end.

It's his second wife, whom he divorced years ago. He treats her with

disregard.

While he speaks, Lena consults him about the jewelry she is about to

put on, she tries on different pairs of earrings for his approval,

something he gives without pausing his phone conversation.

Lena makes a gesture of reproach. Ernesto should not speak to his ex-

wife in that tone.

Ernesto Martel Senior hangs up, bewildered.

45. CONTINUED. 1992.

He sips from his drink, or he serves himself another one if he has

already finished the first.

Ernesto Senior casts her a sideways glance.

Ernesto approaches the telephone and dials a number.

46. ERNESTO MARTEL'S MANSION. (2008). INT. NIGHT.

Fourteen years later  in the same room, decorated differently, (more

modern, more colorful), although it still retains some noble and

timeless furniture pieces and the same layout  Ernesto Junior (we in

effect confirm that this is Ray X) speaks on the telephone while

getting dressed to leave for a party. In that very room, another man

(young, handsome and ambitious) is getting dressed in front of a piece

of furniture equipped with a mirror, at the very spot Lena had been

earlier. (This piece of furniture is not the same one as the one

fourteen years earlier, this is a more masculine piece, the other one

was a type of boudoir).

The ex-wife grumbles furiously. The beautiful boyfriend continues to

dress and smiles at Ernesto.

Another telephone rings.

47. ERNESTO SON'S MANSION. INT. NIGHT 2008

47 A. JUDIT'S PRODUCTION OFFICE. INT. NIGHT.

She emphasizes his name.

The boyfriend catches the allusion.

And she hangs up the phone. At that very moment Judit is in her office

with the American production team. She apologizes and attempts to

recover her calm before undertaking the subject of the meeting at

hand.

48. JUDIT'S HOME. JUDIT'S BEDROOM. INT. NIGHT. 2008

The house is not very big, but it is large enough for two people.

It's discretely feminine and very practical. The details indicate

that an independent woman lives there, as well as a young-man, twenty-

five years old. There is some detail of the decor (the curtains, for

example) that is replicated in Harry's home. It is clear that Judit

has had a hand in setting up the writer's home.

Judit is packing her bags, she paces back and forth. She is a bit

overwhelmed, with multiple thoughts crossing her mind. At times, she

asks for Diego's help.

Acknowledges the reason for her worry.

Judit stops what she's doing, and takes a moment to take a deep

breath.

(It's a civilized encounter, no screaming. There is tension, but it

is kept under control by both of them)

49. IN A PUBLIC PARK AND ON THE STREET. EXT. DAY. 2008

A public park. Diego and Harry are walking along a straight pathway.

Kids, dogs, people jogging. It is a tranquil and pleasant place.

Diego is in front, Harry is behind him, holding on to his elbow, (as

reference), but it's Harry who is moving faster, pushing Diego from

his elbow. The boy shows signs of exhaustion, he is wearing black

sunglasses.

Cut to.

50. CONTINUED. EXT. DAY.

They exit the park. While they wait at a stop sign, a billboard

catches Diego's attention. Half of the billboard is taken up by the

motto: DONATE BLOOD. The names of participating ambulatory hospitals

and their hours appear below.

Harry can tell his company is distracted, so he asks him:

Harry finds it amusing. They walk toward home.

Cut to.

51. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008

Mariacruz, the Latin American maid, is preparing something in the

kitchen. Meanwhile, Diego and Mateo gather around the table. Diego

sits in front of his laptop.

Both of the characters are improvising, rapidly, and become

increasingly excited, completing each other's sentences. They are

having fun, as if playing a game. The sequence becomes a

demonstration of the process of creating fiction, based on an trivial,

real anecdote. (They will begin the sequence by opening a document.

Diego writes the title in caps: DONATE BLOOD.)

Diego talks and takes notes on his laptop. Harry paces back and

forth, in front of the table, like a caged animal.

each other immediately. After the first needle prick

into his vein, she gets completely excited. So, they

start to date. But she doesn't want to turn him into

a vampire... these aren't proselytizing vampires, they

are above biting people... unless they truly need it to

survive...

But they must like sex, right?

Of course. That's one of the problems, the couple

desire each other desperately. But when it comes to

fucking, she becomes prudish...

Why?

Because she is afraid of losing control in her

excitement and taking a bite into his jugular...

Aha.

When they're horny, she lets him do everything, front,

back, whatever he wants, except ravaging her mouth.

And her breasts?

Also... But that gets into high-risk territory. When

he sucks on her breasts, she has to cover her mouth

with a pillow, which she ends up shredding with her

fangs...

And when she sucks his dick?

Diego writes furiously, while cracking up.

Harry is welcoming him as a writer. This fact doesn't escape the boy,

he feels an unexpected pride.

52. MODERN AND MODEST BAR WHERE DIEGO WORKS. NIGHT. INT. 2008

At nights, Diego D.J.'s inside a small booth. Two of his friends, or

just acquaintances of the club scene, one of them we've already seen

earlier, keep him company. The one we don't know, Friend A, looks

pretty loaded. He is very "friendly" with the other two.

Diego takes a sip of Coke and whisky and sets it down somewhere inside

the booth.

AT THE BAR .

The Friend, high on GHB, grabs a glass of Coca-cola from the

bartender's hands, at the bar. He takes out a small container and

adds a few drops of liquid ecstasy into the drink.

He takes a sip and enters the booth where the other two are. He sets

the glass down and begins to jump, euphorically.

In between songs, (he is changing the tune) Diego grabs Friend A's

drink. They are both drinking Coca-Cola, Diego's has whisky and Friend

A's has liquid ecstasy. Distracted by changing tunes, Diego does not

realize that he has grabbed the drink with GHB. He takes a long sip.

And he falls flat to the floor.

The two friends, bewildered and scared, attempt to revive him, but to

no avail. Perhaps Alex will exclaim:

53. BAR EXTERIOR. NIGHT. 2008 (OPTIONAL)

An ambulance arrives.

They carry Diego out, unconscious, from the bar on a stretcher. Alex

goes with him, very scared. Before they go into the vehicle, Diego's

mobile phone rings. Alex takes it from Diego's pocket, he doesn't

know why he is doing so, it is a hysterical reaction. On the other

side of the line, he hears Harry's voice.

The friend asks one of the ambulance employees who tells him the

name of the hospital. Alex repeats it for Harry.

54. ENRACE TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM OF A HOSPITAL. EXT. NIGHT. 2008

Harry gets out of a taxi. He aids himself with the typical blind

man's cane. He can't find the entryway. He bumps into something. We

have not yet seen him this clumsy. Someone helps him enter. The same

person accompanies him to the reception desk in the waiting-room area.

He is no longer the blind man who was walking euphorically along his

street's sidewalk, umbrella in hand.

The "receptionist" looks through the admittances. Taking into account

that Harry is blind, she decides to call the Doctor who has attended

Diego.

54 A.

Shortly thereafter, the Doctor appears. He heads directly for Harry.

Harry reacts to the news.

The doctor makes a neutral gesture of acknowledgement...

The Doctor directs him toward an area with sofas.

They arrive at a couch set, ugly and lacking style, Harry collapses on

one of the armchairs, demolished.

The Doctor returns to work.

The girl at the reception desk stares at Harry, who is immobile,

readied for a long wait.

A slow fade to black.

55. HARRY'S HOME. HARRY'S BEDROOM. INT. DAWN. 2008

From black.

Harry is still waiting, this time at home, sitting on a wingback chair

close to the bed where Diego sleeps.

On the nightstand, there are some medications and a glass of water,

next to a plastic bottle, an alarm-clock. And perhaps a book.

Through the window you can see the day beginning to break, Diego

awakens. At first he doesn't know where he is. In the darkness of

the room he discovers Harry's figure, sitting on the wingback chair.

He can't tell if he's awake or asleep, but it soothes him to know he's

not alone. Diego stares at him, he doesn't say anything. Just

stares.

To his surprise, Harry asks him:

Diego makes a listless gesture.

Silence. Diego thinks about everything's that's happened.

After a few seconds:

Harry remains pensive for a moment, Diego's request has taken him by

surprise.

It is not easy to talk about. In some way it must be obvious that

Harry has spent many years (fourteen) avoiding this topic, but he is

determined to do anything necessary to entertain Diego.

Diego serves himself some water and prepares to listen.

56. MATEO'S OFFICE. INT. DAY. 1994

The images that correspond to the past are edited more freely than the

rest of the narrative. Summarized and sped-up by Harry's voice-off,

mixing media from diverse sources.

In 1994, everyone calls Harry "Mateo". He is sitting behind a table

filled with papers, photographs, books, magazines, an ashtray, pencil

and pen holders, etc. At its center, a script lies open, with tons of

notes scribbled on the margins of its pages. He is finishing the

definitive version of "Girls and Suitcases".

The casual messiness of the place produces its own aesthetic. The

only decorations on the walls, here and there, not following any

particular symmetrical rule, are postcards of painters, actors or

landscapes, held in place by tacks. There is also a newspaper page

that has caught Mateo's attention. Or some astonishing photograph,

taken from a magazine. The cover of some magazine. Everything without

framing, tacked directly onto the wall.

The furniture is pastel, medium-shade green or red, with velvet

tapestry, worn and outmoded. The pieces don't match, but they look

good together.

Judit enters (also fourteen years younger, but this is less obvious.

She is a woman unmarked by the march of time.)

Mateo is focused on the script's pages. Judit is Mateo's right-hand

man, they are accomplices in everything, both professionally and

emotionally.

57. CONTINUED. WAITING AREA. 1994.

Mateo exits his office. In the improvised waiting area (it is not a

proper waiting room but a transient-space turned waiting area by a

couch left over from the furnishings of some previous film). He finds

Ernesto Junior (in other words, the character who had introduced

himself as Ray X fourteen years ago; in his case, the age-difference

is noticeable, he's just a kid). He is a little heavier, his hair

longer, he reminds us of the love-struck big-kid that Phyllip Seymour

Hoffman played in "Boogie Nights".

Mateo's gaze rests only for an instant on the young man, even though

the boy does not take his stupefied eyes away from Mateo throughout

the entire sequence.

Ernesto Junior has accompanied Lena. When he sees her, Mateo freezes,

at the door to his office.

Lena's back is turned, or her head is tilted as she reads a magazine.

Ernesto elbows her, Lena raises her head and discovers Mateo, watching

her from the door to his office.

Mateo's heart churns, it's a cinematographic churn, he feels like

James Stewart in "Vertigo", when he first sees Kim Novak at the

restaurant, with her famous green dress. Time stops for an instant so

that Mateo may contemplate this woman's apparition.

After this brief hypnotic moment, they introduce themselves,

forgetting Ernesto's presence, who then, since no one pays attention

to him, introduces himself.

Even though she's a bit nervous, one can tell that Lena is a strong

and decisive woman. Brunette. Mysterious. Made-up in dark tones that

stand out on her pale skin. Refined. She doesn't have the aspect of a

comedienne, her presence is too intense, she seems better suited to be

the heroine of a film noir (as we've said).

Genres and their iconographies pose no limit on Mateo's capacity to be

attracted to her, from the first instant.

Mateo observes her intently. She does not resemble any of the

characters in the script, but he no longer cares about that. At some

point, Judit makes her appearance and gets to contemplate this scene

herself, displeased.

It doesn't sound like "let's read something" but more like "let's have

a drink."

They disappear through Mateo's office door.

Fade to black.

58. ERNESTO SENIOR'S MANSION. (IN PUERTA DE HIERRO OR

SOMETHING LIKE IT). EXT. NIGHT. 1994.

From black.

(Over an establishing shot of the mansion, one hears Harry's voice-off

as he speaks to Diego)

Great mansion, with a huge green parcel of land with various trees,

bushes, flowers... Two or three dogs are running across the lawn. The

plot of land must span about 6,000 square meters or more. (The dogs

approach the camera, as if it were a trespasser).

Alarm system, etc. The main building has two levels, joined by a grand

staircase. All decorated by wives with the wish to be decorators,

aided by hired decorators. Brand-name furniture, two or three

paintings worth millions. A piano and a certain desolateness. One can

tell that his previous wives have left along with a part of the

furnishings.

59. LIVING ROOM ON THE TOP LEVEL. LENA AND ERNESTO SENIOR

DINE. INT. NIGHT. 1994

The Father already knows he is missing information about something

unexpected that has gone on that morning. They are at dessert.

Ernesto looks at her with surprise, he doesn't approve of it.

(Brief pause)

Lena shoots him a fulminating glance.

Lena is frustrated and restless. She rises.

Ernesto grabs her and then embraces her. Lena remains still within his

arms, imprisoned and elusive, the two locked in a strange posture.

60. CONTINUED.

Someone calls at the door. "There's a call". It's the voice of one

of the hired help, behind the door. "it's Mr. Mateo Blanco, and he

says it's important".

She breaks free from Ernesto's embrace and runs toward the door where

the maid is holding the supplementary handset. Avidly, she grabs it

from her. She listens, excited. She responds only in monosyllables,

affirmatively. She hangs up the phone. Her eyes glitter with intense

happiness, a feeling from which Ernesto feels excluded.

Lena looks imploringly at Ernesto Senior.

Ernesto makes a gesture that betrays his anger and displeasure.

61. IN THE MORNING. HARRY'S HOME. SIGNIFICANT ELLIPSIS. INT.

DAY. 2008

Diego is better, but Harry prefers to keep caring for him. Harry

makes him breakfast. Diego is sitting at the table.

62. DRESSING ROOM FOR MAKE-UP, HAIR, AND COSTUME. INT. DAY.

1994

Part of the voice-off is edited over these images.

Lena is in the process of being made-up, coifed and dressed. This,

under the control of Mateo Blanco, who does not stop speaking,

offering references, making ironic remarks, etc. All of this is seen

through the lens of a 16mm camera. (Images of contrasting colors).

The editing is vertiginous and doesn't at all respect continuity

rules. The young Ernesto Junior is carrying the camera. We also see

this scene from the other side of the 16mm frame, from the point of

view of the main narration, which includes images of Ernesto Junior

filming with the 16mm camera.

On the inside frame of the dressing room mirror, there are photographs

of a young Shirley MacLaine, Kate Hepburn (young), Judy Holliday,

Audrey Hepburn, Goldie Hawn (in "Butterflies Are Free" or any other

film where she wears her hair long with a fringe). Icons of the

romantic comedy of today and yesteryear.

Over the voices of the characters that appear on frame, one hears

Harry's voice-off.

Through the 16mm camera we can see the details of Lena's mutating

image, how it gets constructed. It is true that she reminds us of the

three actresses that Harry mentions in his voice-off. The members of

the team assisting her (hair-stylist, makeup artist, costume designer,

etc. and Lena herself) laugh heartily when they finish setting her up

with Goldie's blonde long-hair wig with a fringe. And they stare,

dumbfounded, when she is made-up as Audrey Hepburn in "Breakfast at

Tiffany's" or "Sabrina". It's a style that fits Lena like a glove.

They are all fascinated by the change, except Judit, estranged and

angered by their playfulness.

(For Judit, Mateo is constructing his ideal woman. She finds all that

playing around obscene and dangerous).

Judit watches Lena-Audrey with a fatalistic stare.

Mateo manifests his enthusiasm over the changes and Lena looks at him

with excitement. She also feels transformed on the inside and that's

thanks to Mateo.

Ernesto Junior directs his camera lens toward Harry's face, not hiding

his admiration.

63. SCREENING ROOM, ERNESTO MARTEL SENIOR'S HOME. INT. DAY. OR

NIGHT. 1994

Ernesto Senior is watching the make-up test, the hair-styling test,

etc., part of what we have already seen through the 16mm lens. The

sound is chaotic, many people are always speaking at once.

(End with a shot in 16mm of Judit.)

64. SHOOTING. THE SET OF "GIRLS AND SUITCASES". INT. EFFECT

TO BE DETERMINED. 1994

Images from "the making of" shot by Ernesto Junior on 16mm, with high

grain and contrast, mixed with direct images from the establishing

shot of what is occurring.

The look of Lena's character is openly inspired by the Audrey Hepburn

of "Breakfast at Tiffany's", with Sabrina's hair style and loop

earrings (fringe and ponytail). She has also adopted the style of

Holy Golithly, her kind heart and that urbane sophistication that

characterizes modern girls from rural origins. The only difference is

a more visceral quality, Pina (Lena's character) is exalted and

Mediterranean, nothing like Hepburn. Her wardrobe is that of a modern

girl in `94, she is a professional model for cosmetic products. One

of her advertising photographs is framed and hangs on one of the walls

of the loft where she lives.

IN STUDIO-MADE KITCHEN, INSIDE THE COMPLEX "PINA'S LOFT".

Pina, Lena's character, is cutting tomatoes for a gazpacho, inside a

beautiful and shiny kitchen.

Pina is sad, probably thinking about "all the times she has had

gazpacho with Ivan, the absent lover". A tear drops from her face onto

the knife with which she's cutting the tomatoes. (In slow motion, one

sees the collision of the tear with the knife, in a cut-in). Hers is a

subtly comic sadness.

When she is done grinding up the tomatoes she takes a box of

sedatives, which she is carrying in her apron's pocket. She throws

all the pills into the gazpacho. She keeps two or three for herself.

(She may even say out loud, "These are for me".) With a wooden spoon,

she mixes the orange liquid, even though it only contains red

tomatoes.

The cut-ins are to be alternated with the "making of" of the cut-ins.

As well as Mateo's comments over the action, which instruct Lena how

to react.

The clap-board marks the end. It's the fifth take. Mateo says

"Great". Lena almost screams with joy.

Cut to.

65. ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SET. INT. DAY. 1994

(Maybe on two random chairs from THE LOFT TERRACE, which are piled up

with objects from the set, given that this is not where they will be

shooting; the chairs are next to the corral with the chickens and

rabbits.) Seen through the 16mm camera: In the foreground, the team

that's preparing the next shot for the next sequence; in the

background, without being able to hear what they are saying, Mateo

speaking to Lena. They are both holding a script in their hands.

Mateo is giving her directions. Everything is very professional, but

their demeanor radiates understanding, complicity and... a latent

desire. They are not talking about anything personal.

"Now we will do the part where you return home, frustrated, after

having left Ivan a note on his door. When you bump into Julieta.

You just open this door, you look at the answering machine from afar.

The machine has become some kind of monster to you. You are terrified

of it."

"A Monster?"

"Yes... Your sanity depends on it. If the light blinks, it means there

may have been a call. And if it doesn't blink... you can't do anything

but wait... and you lost your patience some time ago."

66. ERNESTO SENIOR'S SCREENING ROOM. INT. 1994

What Lena and Mateo are saying on the terrace, as captured by the

"making of" by Ernesto Junior, is being seen and listened to by

Ernesto Senior, in the screening room that he's had installed in his

own home. Next to him, a young female lip-reader (A girl of neutral

aspect, but interesting, dressed as a glamour-less Russian.) is

translating for Ernesto Senior what Lena and Mateo are saying, as if

she were dubbing them. (The tone of her voice does not betray anything

suspicious. Everything sounds strictly professional, a director and an

actress who speak, in complicity, about their work.) They both appear

contained, their attraction made more evident by what they hide than

by what they show.

Judit is present in all the shots of the setting up, including the

ones where Mateo and Lena are in the background, as Mateo makes

suggestions on how to add nuance to Lena's performance. Judit appears

solemn and always with an annoyed expression. Ernesto Senior feels

sympathy for this woman.

Cut to.

67. END OF THE WORK DAY. INTERIOR OF THE STUDIO. INT. DAY. 1994

The team has just finished shooting a shot with Pina on the terrace,

leaning over a railing, her back turned, waiting for Ivan. Mateo

yells "cut". And the Assistant sends the team away, until the next

day.

The Production team hands out the order for the next day, as if

handing out the last edition of a newspaper with breaking news.

Dispersal.

The different teams disband and head toward the exit doors.

Mateo crosses paths with Ernesto Junior.

Disappointed, Ernesto Junior says goodbye.

Mateo speaks to him in a friendly tone, as if there were a warm

rapport between them. He does so strategically, given that he thinks

the boy is the plague.

Ernesto Junior finally understands that there is nothing for him to do

and disappears.

And Mateo breathes.

68. WAREHOUSE HALLWAY AND HAIR & MAKE-UP DRESSING ROOM. INT.

DAY. 1994

Mateo accompanies Edurne, (the make-up artist and old flame,

collaborator and accomplice in other films), to discuss some detail of

Lena's hairstyle and makeup. They end up at the make-up and hair

dressing room. Lena's dressing room is just next door. She is there

with one or two actors who are still hanging around. The rest have

left. (The reason of the previous scene has been a pretext. They both

know it)

The hairdresser gestures in accord.

69. LENA'S DRESSING ROOM. INT. DAY. 1994

Lena sees him enter, she glances at him ardently, not surprised to

have him in her dressing room.

Mateo approaches Lena and, without the slightest preamble, launches

himself at her mouth, kissing her fervently. The impression is that

they are about to devour each other. They separate as if to catch

their breath, looking intensely into each other's eyes.

They tear each other's clothes off (she's in a robe).

There are no overtures. They devour each other, hungry. They make

love on a small bed, as if they were on the edge of a precipice.

Desire, contained by both during the past weeks, explodes and levels

them. Neither one does anything to stop it. (A train passes by at

high-speed, both images fuse, the lovers and the train across their

bodies.)

Fade to black.

Ellipsis.

70. ERNESTO SENIOR'S HOME. INT. NIGHT. 1994.

Lena arrives late from the shooting, tired and satisfied. This is

supposed to be another day, not the same day of the "scene" in the

dressing room.

Ernesto Senior awaits for her in the living room, in front of a muted

television, with a drink in hand. (Perhaps the train will still be

present, on the television screen.)

Lena approaches him and kisses him.

Lena sits and takes a sip from his drink.

Cut to.

71. ON A SET IN MID-CONSTRUCTION, WITH CARPENTERS, PAINTERS,

ETC. INT. DAY. 1994

Mateo argues with the set designer over one of the sets.

Distractedly, Judit waters the plants, real ones, of Pina's fake

terrace, some of them somewhat shriveled from being away from the sun

for so long.

Mateo is going to go complain to her about the set, but he notices

that she is so worried and tired that he doesn't say anything.

Mateo looks at her as if she had just slapped him. Mumbles:

72. LUXURIOUS IBIZAN HOUSE. EXT AND INT. DAY. 1994

Lena and Ernesto spend the weekend together, at an Ibizan house

minutely decorated with ethnic details. The decoration, super-

luxurious hippie, does not ring untrue to the Island's aesthetic.

Consider that Ernesto Senior and Lena are in the bedroom, on the bed,

making love luxuriously. There's no hurry, they pay careful attention

to all the details.

After the final sprint, they both come, satisfied. Or so it seems.

Ernesto remains spent on the bed, motionless. Lena gets up and goes

to the bathroom.

She opens the faucet and lets the water run.

Immediately, she is overtaken by vicious retching. On her knees, she

vomits into the toilet.

After she's done vomiting she gets up and looks at herself in the

mirror. She wipes off her mouth and closes the faucet. She looks

very pale, the exertion from the vomiting is written on her face.

Quickly, she puts some makeup on. Enough to bring some color back to

her cheeks and to get rid of the bags under her eyes. Her eyes still

glimmer from the tears she's shed. More than in any other sequence,

it is here that Lena reveals her talent as an actress.

She exits the bathroom, wrapped in an elegant robe, a bit divine-

hippie.

73. BEDROOM IBIZAN HOUSE. INT. DAY. 1994

Ernesto Senior is still lying in bed, recuperating.

He gazes at her, love-struck.

Lena sits on the bed, her back to Ernesto. He wraps his arm around

her waist while she makes some typical girl-gesture: looks at her

nails thinking of how she'll fix them, looks into her pocket mirror

and ponders the color of her hair, grabs a magazine on the nightstand

and thumbs through it, calls her mother to see how she's doing... Or,

simplest of all, takes a cigarette out of its box, looks for the

lighter, finds it and lights it. Everything is done sluggishly, she's

trying to take up as much time as possible.

Lena forces a smile, with her back to Ernesto.

Ernesto Senior embraces her from behind and brings her toward him. He

mumbles, affectionately:

74. ENTRANCE HALL, PINA'S LOFT. INT. DAY. 1994

SHOOT. THE FOLLOWING MONDAY.

Only the indispensable members of the team and the actors are

clustered around the entrance hall and the elevator:

A scene is being shot where Pina exits the elevator and walks through

the entrance hall, in a hurry, toward the street. She bumps into

Chus, the porter, who is holding two metal objects (A Robert Indiana

"LOVE", impressive and metallic, and a Gucci alarm clock in the shape

of a G, the G is also metallic.)

Chus stops her, almost by force. She is a very "communicative" woman

and Pina attempts to get her off her back, as quickly as possible,

without being rude to her.

Chus shows her both objects, with a questioning look on her face.

Pina exits the entrance hall, leaving the porter mid-sentence, while

the porter repeats, still, two more times.

The scene is very simple, but it must exude charm. Chus is a natural

comic talent and Pina's character must act with a flippancy that plays

comically. At the same time, Lena is noticeably exhausted, both

physically and emotionally. Instead of lending the text lightness, she

brings it down. And she's aware of it.

For the first time, Mateo does not hide his annoyance as a director

because the scene turns out badly, and as a lover because he is

jealous of her weekend with Ernesto Senior. Lena cannot stand to look

at him, she can't bare his angered expression.

Mateo takes her aside to a secluded corner of the set and away from

the team.

Mateo gestures for the Assistant to come over. Lena still has her

back toward the team. Mateo says something to the Assistant, who then

says out loud for all to hear:

Mateo meets with Lena in the darkest corner of the entrance hall.

75. ERNESTO SENIOR'S HOME. SCREENING ROOM. INT. 1994

Ernesto Senior must be intercut, watching in his screening room all

that occurs at the shoot. Next to him, the lip-reader.

76. CONTINUED. ENTRANCE HALL.

The members of the team slowly depart from the entrance hall. They

take the opportunity to grab a bite or get some air, they gather close

to the trucks or next to the catering. All except Ernesto Junior who

remains inside and hides furtively behind a styrofoam panel, somewhat

removed from the couple, who cannot see him.

Mateo looks all around to ensure that they are alone.

Mateo once again ascertains that there is no one in the entrance hall.

He hands her a Kleenex so that she may wipe her tears.

Mateo grabs her by the arm and takes her up the stairs to an apartment

that the production company has rented in the same building.

77. ERNESTO SENIOR'S SCREENING ROOM. INT. 1994

Ernesto Senior hears the entire conversation from the lips of the lip-

reader. A stony expression on his face. The "reader" repeats the

dialogues in an unexpressive tone, which makes them sound even more

dramatic and painful.

Cut to.

Fade to black.

78. ON THE SET OF PINA'S LOFT. FLASHBACK. INT. 1994

A DIFFERENT DAY.

Returning from black.

Various shots of Pina's loft. Everything seems chaotic, typical of

the end of the work day. The furniture is out of place, silverware

and plastic is all mixed together with electrical material and stage

equipment. The warehouse lights begin to shut off.

The team disbands.

On her way to the dressing room, Lena tells Ernesto Junior that she is

headed to her yoga class, as she does every day. And that she wants

to go alone.

And she leaves him behind. Ernesto Junior watches her walk away,

disoriented. He always has a tripod attached to his camera, as in

"Peeping Tom".

79. STREET, MATEO'S HOME. EXT. NIGHT.1994.

It's the fist time we see this setting: the entrance of the building

where Mateo lives. Almost all the windows are darkened. It's

midnight. We watch this sequence through the 16mm camera, situated

just in front of the building's doorway.

We watch as Mateo appears on the sidewalk, walking toward the

building's doorway.

In front of the building, in the main narrative, we see Ernesto Junior

filming with his 16mm camera. He is hiding behind a bush, or cloaked

by a tree's shade. Either way, Mateo does not discover him.

80. ERNESTO MARTEL'S MANSION. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT. 1994.

LOWER LEVEL

At the same time that the former is taking place, Lena arrives to

Martel's mansion. She finds Ernesto Senior with a drink in his hand,

in one of the living areas (or playing the piano), she approaches him

and gives him a slight kiss on the lips, in a gesture of hello.

Lena catches Ernesto's allusion, but she pretends she hasn't. She

demonstrates her control over herself and her cold determination.

Lena climbs up the long staircase, heads directly for her room.

Ernesto listens to her steps as they recede. His ironic tranquility

disappears and gives way to a furious expression.

Fade to black.

81. FRONT ENTRANCE, MATEO'S HOME. EXT. NIGHT. 1994.

From black. (A different day.)

Framed by the window to Mateo's living room seen from the street, one

observes the bottom halves of Mateo's and Lena's bodies, as they move

around the apartment. Only half of their body is visible because the

roman shades are halfway drawn. (One gets the impression that Mateo

is showing her around the house).

They say goodbye.

We see all this through a 16mm camera. Without a pause in the

shooting we realize that the person carrying the camera crosses the

street and waits outside of the front door to Mateo's building.

82. FRONT DOOR TO MATEO'S BUILDING. NIGHT. EXT. 1994

Lena exits through the door. The second she discovers the camera, she

confronts it.

Not far from them there is a garbage truck that is making horrendous

noises and makes it difficult to hear what they are saying. The truck

gets closer and the noises louder so that Ernesto Junior and Lena must

scream back and forth at each other.

Lena throws herself at Ernesto Junior and attempts to take the camera

from him. They struggle (the camera continues shooting, the images

move around, dizzyingly). Ernesto Junior manages to break free from

Lena. They are both out of breath. Ernesto backs up a few steps in

order to frame Lena again and so that he can focus her image. Lena

could take off running, but instead she stays right where she is; she

lets Ernesto bring her into focus and frame her correctly, while she

fixes her hair. She looks straight at the camera:

83. PRIVATE SCREENING ROOM, ERNESTO SENIOR'S MANSION. INT. DAY.

1994

(We see this at the same moment it's happening.)

The next day, Ernesto Senior is watching the previous night's scene on

the screen of his private projection room. We discover this when he

is halfway into it; the images pick the action up at the point when

Lena exits Mateo's house and confronts the camera, right after she has

attempted to grab the camera away from Ernesto Junior.

The shots in 16mm alternate with the shots in 35mm that belong to the

main narrative. The sound is uproarious, we can hear what they say in

a low volume, just as reference. Ernesto asks for the sound to be

muted so that the "translator" can do her job.

The "lip reader" tries, as usual, to be "neutral and inexpressive",

but on this occasion she cannot help but have the violence of the

scene affect her. She acts as a mere vehicle, not part of the

conflict; nonetheless, she gets a little nervous. She is seated next

to the volcano: Ernesto Senior, stony, frozen, silent, and about to

explode.

84. CONTINUED. SAME LOCATION.

Just a little earlier, right before the dizzying images appear on

screen, those caused by Lena's attempt to remove the camera from

Ernesto Junior's hands:

On the opposite end of where the screen is, behind the back of both

Ernesto and the translator, a door opens. Lena appears.

She watches the scene that is unfolding on screen as she lets her

voice rise to her mouth. (The entire dialogue in which she has

addressed Ernesto Senior directly is seen during the action taking

place in the projection room, not on the street.) At first, her voice

overlaps with that of the translator, who becomes instantly silent and

turns her head toward the door where Lena is standing. Lena is

dubbing herself.

The translator watches Lena and Ernesto Senior, who is still

motionless, watching the screen.

On screen, we see Lena walking, her back turned, for a good stretch.

With an equal obsession, she is followed down the street by the son

and in the screening room by the father.

85. LENA'S BEDROOM, ERNESTO'S MANSION. DUSK FALLING. 1994

An avalanche of snow, on the television screen.

(Some short shots of both ice and whisky as they fall into a tall

glass function as an ellipsis between one scene and the next).

Lena paces around anxiously in her bedroom. She attempts to focus on

a fashion magazine, but is unsuccessful. She takes a deep breath,

makes a decision. She opens the closet and takes out a small, weekend

suitcase. She fills it with her most indispensable clothes.

She exits her bedroom, on the top floor. In the hallway, only a few

meters separate the door to her bedroom from the stairway. There is a

small landing just before the top of the stairs, it has a small table

against the wall, a beautiful vase with flowers, a mirror and two

small sofas on either side of the small table. Ernesto is seated on

one of them, holding a glass of whisky in his right hand. It cannot

be the first he's had. One could say he's been waiting some time now

for Lena's exit, a bottle and an icebox keeping him company. Lena

walks a few steps. Se approaches Ernesto, but keeps her distance.

She speaks to him in passing.

(Every single one of the words in this dialogue sounds laded and slow)

No sooner has she said it than Lena realizes that it has been an

unnecessary provocation. But it's too late to take back what's been

said. Ernesto Senior shoots her a deathly look. But then gets up and

changes his expression to calm her.

One more time, Ernesto begs forgiveness, but Lena doesn't want to see

him or hear him. She turns and begins to descend the stairs. The

first step.

Ernesto approaches her slowly, from behind. He is still pleading, as

in a litany: "Lena, please". "Lena..."

86. CONTINUED. ON THE STAIRWAY.

But Lena keeps her back to his supplication, descends one more step,

her second one. Suddenly, without any change in his expression,

Ernesto pushes her with a quick and unexpected movement of his arm.

Lena loses her balance and falls, rolling, bouncing violently against

the edges of the steps until her whole body hits the floor at the foot

of the stairs. During the time the fall takes, Ernesto doesn't move,

he watches her fall, bump by bump. He waits until she's on the floor

and she casts him a fulminating glance, before he reacts.

87. CONTINUED.

Lena lands on the floor, broken and stunned by the blows.

She lifts her head and attempts to move, but can't. Ernesto descends

quickly and comes to her side. He begs, calmly, without violence, for

her not to move. Lena cannot stand, her battered body only allows her

to drag herself toward the door, like a reptile.

Ernesto takes her, delicately, in his arms. Lena gazes at him in

horror.

88. PUERTA DE HIERRO MANSION. LAWN. EXT. NIGHT. 1994

He exits into the night, onto a green lawn, with the woman in his

arms, they look like two newlyweds. The dogs, disconcerted, follow

them in procession, they intuit that something is not right.

Once inside the car (none of the hired help is there that night), he

opens the gate from the inside and exits onto the highway.

89. HIGHWAY. EXT. NIGHT. 1994.

Lena is lying on the back seat, pale and in pain, but she's not

complaining. Ernesto is driving faster than 180 Km/hr. He alerts a

pair of patrolmen. When he realizes he's being followed, he increases

his speed. The patrolmen signal with their lights for him to stop on

the curb, but Ernesto Martel ignores their signal until the police car

catches up to him and forces him to stop.

90. A DIFFERENT SEGMENT OF THE HIGHWAY. EXT. NIGHT. 1994

The two patrolmen get out of their vehicle and head, enraged, toward

Ernesto. They gesture for him to lower his window.

Ernesto lowers the window, relaxed, despite the situation. The two

patrolmen, especially the one who calls the shots, recriminate him,

their voices raised, for all the infractions he has just committed.

They are very agitated and they quickly notice the high level of

alcohol emitted by the driver's breath.

Knocked out on the back seat, Lena observes the whole scene. Her face

is contorted with pain and anxiety.

(A river of cars continues to pass nearby.)

Using a nasty tone, one of the policemen asks Ernesto for his

documents.

The following conversation takes place while the policemen verify the

vehicle's documents. Ernesto explains to them with a common sense

that's disarming:

Lena moans in affirmation. The Policeman takes a look inside the car,

in order to ascertain that she is indeed not faking it...

Ernesto attempts to start the car, but the other policeman stops him.

Lena moans inside the car. She may even start crying.

She says this to the two men.

Taking his time, Ernesto vacates the driver's seat and sits in the

back, next to Lena.

Sulking and with an alcohol-driven affection (and casual) he asks

LENA:

The policeman gets the car moving and his partner follows them in the

patrol car.

91. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE. EXT. NIGHT. 1994

Ernesto's car, driven by the patroleman, arrives to the entrance of a

hospital.

Cut to.

Immediately, at the Emergency Room, some male nurses arrive with a

stretcher.

92. HOSPITAL. INT. NIGHT. 1994

X-Rays of arms, legs and head, along with all other routine tests, in

short shots. A broken leg. Various contusions. A cast must be

applied.

The image of the X-Ray takes up the whole screen. We may hear the

nurses giving instructions. "Don't move", "Don't breathe", etc.

93. HOSPITAL. INT. NIGHT. 1994

The last thing we see is the X-ray of the head, which dissolves over

Lena's head and face as she asks a nurse for the telephone, telling

her that she needs to make an urgent phone call.

Ernesto censures her with his look. Once the last X-ray has been

taken, the nurse brings her a supplementary handset and plugs it in.

She hands the handset to Lena.

Ernesto looks at her not knowing what to expect. Nonetheless, he

remains seated next to her. Lena doesn't react, she doesn't care if

he overhears the conversation, she almost wants him to.

The brutal beating to which she has been victim is an inescapable

reality that gives her an edge over Ernesto, an edge of which she

intends to take advantage. She is wounded, but she is no longer

afraid of him.

She rings Mateo's number. They greet each other.

94. THE NEXT DAY. PUERTA DE HIERRO MANSION. ON THE LAWN.

DAY. 1994

Ernesto Senior's car arrives at the Puerta de Hierro Mansion.

Various members, three or four, of the Mansion's personnel approach to

help the couple.

Lena exits the car with her leg covered in a cast up to her knee. She

leans on crutches or a cane.

Cut to.

95. MANSION. GROUND FLOOR. INT. DAY. 1994.

The group gathers in the living room of the ground floor. Ernesto

asks the help to bring them something and then to leave them alone.

Cut to.

96. MANSION. GROUND FLOOR. INT. DAY. 1994

A table set ad hoc.

Lena is sitting in front of her breakfast (or lunch), sullen, pale,

implacable, she doesn't move a single muscle of her massacred face.

Ernesto Senior is all sweetness toward his victim. Lena begins to

pick at her food, listless, in silence, in order to keep her mouth and

eyes occupied.

Her face is still covered in bruises, on her cheekbone and around her

eyes.

At some point someone from the hired help appears: "Sir, Madam, do you

need anything else?". "No, you can leave us alone, I have already

told you this, for God's sake!" Ernesto Senior responds. The servant

quickly vanishes.

Lowering his tone:

Lena appears implacable throughout the conversation.

Ernesto Senior hates to negotiate under predetermined limitations. He

weighs out his options and realizes that Lena has the upper hand.

97. WAREHOUSE, SHABBY STUDIO. EXT. INT. DAY. 1994

They enter the warehouse, temporarily turned into a studio. (The

darkness is almost absolute. A huge door opens. The silhouettes of

Ernesto Senior and Lena, on a wheelchair, enter.)

The dark, vast space is pierced by the blinding light of a doorway,

which both frames and silhouettes the figures of Ernesto and Lena,

like cut-outs; creating a powerful image. Epic and terrible.

They bump into some of the members of the team, who begin their work

day, slothfully.

When Mateo discovers the pair, he approaches them immediately.

Cut to.

98. MATEO'S OFFICE, IN THE WAREHOUSE TURNED STUDIO. INT. DAY.

1994

Mateo is seated at a casual table. The entire decoration of the

office is casual and chaotic, not luxurious, austere, nothing like

Lena's dressing room. An enormous drip eats away at one of the

corners of the room.

Lena is sitting across from him, on a wheelchair, and seated on an

ugly armchair, Ernesto Senior. Judit is also present, she's standing.

They have just finished talking. Lena has told the version that she

and Ernesto Senior agreed on.

Mateo looks at them in disbelief. Judit, still as a statue, waits for

the others' reactions. Lena breathes, expectantly. And Ernesto

Senior looks uncomfortable and insecure, he is used to being the one

who calls the shots; the inverse role, that of listener, disorients

him and puts him in a bad mood.

Mateo lets out a huff...

Looks at Judit and Ernesto Senior.

It's not a question but a demand.

Judit shoots him a look of recrimination, as if saying "This is not

the moment for that", but she cannot do anything to stop him.

Ernesto Senior is also not pleased (but he knows he cannot say no, and

this irritates him even more). He glances first at Lena, who orders

him with her own glance to accept, and then looks at Judit, who warmly

invites him to exit with her.

For some reason, Ernesto Senior empathizes with that woman.

99. WAREHOUSE, SHABBY STUDIO. NEXT TO MATEO'S DRESSING ROOM.

INT. DAY. 1994

Judit and Ernesto Senior exit the office and hang around not far from

to the door. They smoke, perhaps. They are both restless. They look

at each other as if seeking some kind of understanding, despite their

differences. And they find it. They are joined by their jealousy.

At the other end of the warehouse, like a mirage amongst the shadows,

Pina's loft appears, majestic, ramshackle and mysterious. Ernesto

contemplates it without understanding it, but is affected by its

presence. He is unable to understand the essence of this make-belief

game, but it's the first time he begins to grasp its hermetic

fascination.

100. MATEO'S OFFICE. WAREHOUSE, SHABBY STUDIO. INT. DAY. 1994

Mateo lifts her skirt in an attempt to see how far up the cast goes.

On the white skin of her thighs, like in an uneven print, various

asymmetrical bruises stand out. Mateo touches with his lips on every

one of them, kissing them delicately. Lena shudders.

And he continues kissing her thighs until he comes close to her pubis.

Lena lifts and/or caresses his head. Mateo lifts it to look at her.

Lena avoids giving a direct answer, but in her own way, she lets him

know, somberly and urgently.

I have promised to stay in his house in exchange for

his letting you finish the film, under your

conditions.

But I cannot ask you for such a sacrifice.

You have not asked me...

I can't accept it either.

(Pleads) Mateo, please!

There must be another answer.

What else? The only solution is that I continue to live

with him until you finish the film.

Can you take it?

You don't have to think about that... What's important

is that you finish shooting.

Exactly what have you agreed to?

I've told you, to live under the same roof, with him

in his room and me in mine. He doesn't have the right

to anything more.

And you think he will be content with that?

Mateo goes over the story in his head, desperately attempting to think

of something. Lena observes him, expectantly. Finally, something

seems to hit him.

101. SHOOTING AT THE STAIRWAY. STAIRWAY LANDING, IVAN'S HOUSE.

INT. DAY. 1994

(Taking up the whole screen, we see the scene through the Moviola,

with the texture of a bad copy, streaks, grain, etc. The solution

Mateo has proposed is to repeat the last part of the sequence. On the

surface of the Moviola screen, the reflection of Mateo's face is

barely visible over the first set of images screened.)

A wooden landing and stairway in a building of the old Madrid. At its

center, an elevator, also antique.

Pina has just left a note for Ivan on the door to his study asking him

to please call on her, that she needs to speak to him urgently, that

something unexpected has come up... (She is dressed as she was when she

came out of the entrance hall in the previous scene with Chus. This

sequence is supposed to be the one that follows it.)

She has just left the note when Julieta appears, she is dressed

conventionally, but with some extravagant detail, something that

garners attention. She bumps into Pina by the elevator, Pina does not

know her. Julieta knocks on the studio's door (just as Pina had done

earlier), she doesn't get an answer. She notices the note that Pina

has just affixed on the door. She takes it down and reads it, much to

Pina's bafflement, who has been watching her from the other side of

the landing. After reading it, Julieta crumples it up. Pina cannot

believe it. She remains motionless on the other side of the landing,

because she doesn't trust the eccentric looking woman.

Julieta throws the crumpled note through the gap in the stairway and

looks condescendingly at Pina while she approaches her, prepared to

walk down the stairs.

UP TO THIS POINT WE WATCH THE SEQUENCE THROUGH THE IMAGE-TEXTURE OF

THE MOVIOLA AND THE REFLECTION OF MATEO'S FACE.

(These images are what will be retained from what had been shot

previously.)

102. SHOOTING AT THE STAIRWAY. CONTINUED.

Pina makes a gesture as if to say: "So you are the ex-wife, the crazy

one."

Pina and Julieta begin to descend the stairs.

Pina looks at her apprehensively... She steps down only one

stair.

She pushes her and Pina falls, rolling all the way to the bottom.

Cut to.

103. WAREHOUSE, SHABBY PLATEAU. VARIOUS SPACES. 1994

Images that indicate the passing of time during the shooting. Short

sequences of the minute work done by each of the teams, as if

assembling ballet pieces, all of it accompanied by a musical score:

The D.P. sets up the lighting for the shoot, the bulbs are lit, the

filters applied, the interior of the camera cleaned, the film is

loaded. The atmosphere is set. Pina in her bedroom, lying on the

bed, with one leg in a cast, is relaxing, breathing deeply. The

actress playing Chon jokes around with the costume team, they laugh.

But no one pays attention to the others. Edurne, in a close-up,

retouches one of Pina's eyes. The mouth as well. Chon stops laughing

so that the hair-stylist may shape her hair.

All the images are very brief... The score predominates, the ambient

sounds of the activities of the different teams is heard more like a

whisper. The scene must not last longer than a minute. This set of

images serves to abridge time and to indicate that the shooting is in

its final days, after a long journey.

There will probably not be many images, but less: the bulb that

lights, Lena's eye as Edurne retouches it, its blinking, its sadness.

Chon's mouth as she speaks without pause, stopping only when lipstick

is added. The film loaded, the hair fluffed. Lena lying on the rug

in her dressing room, totally motionless, her eyes made-up and closed,

doing breathing exercises for relaxation, her leg in a cast, etc.

Motor. Action!

104. WAREHOUSE STUDIO. PINA'S LOFT. 1994

SCENE FROM "GIRLS AND SUITCASES"

The doorbell rings in the loft. Pina limps over to the door. She

looks through the metal peephole, its design creates an optical

illusion. On the other side of the peephole, Chon's exalted eyes

appear. Chon is a Better Midler type, in her 40s, that kind of

extroverted woman who at first glance appears chubby but isn't quite

so. She is wearing designer clothes, despite the fact that her

demeanor is direct and crass. Both of them, Pina and Chon, are tired

and hysterical, which each one of them interprets in her own way.

Pina opens the door and Chon enters. Even though they are good

friends, the last thing Pina is in the mood for is to see Chon, much

less an over-excited Chon with "problems".

Chon notices Ivan's suitcase in the middle of the foyer and looks at

it as if she'd never seen a suitcase.

Judging from the tone, one would guess she could care less. But the

script asks for her to inquire about the suitcase and she inquires.

Chon, disconcerted, notices that Pina drags herself around with a cast

on her leg.

(She has picked up Pina's inexpressive tone)

Final clap board. It's take number twelve.

105. SHOOTING AND SURROUNDINGS. INT. EXT. DAY. 1994

The camera team directs "load camera" (new film stock is loaded, the

one already inside has run out).

Mateo has a look of worry, the scene is not funny at all, the

actresses are bored and tense. They behave like automatons. Lena

looks at Mateo, she had never seen him so disconsolate.

A general impasse and discouragement. The team betrays boredom,

preoccupation, and exhaustion.

The actress playing Chon grumbles, annoyed. Juanba, the hair-stylist,

approaches her to fix her hair. In the background, one sees Mateo

speaking to Lena.

Ernesto Junior wanders around the set.

We suppose that he has already shot the other takes, we notice a

change in his attitude. He watches Lena and Mateo converse, then

watches them as they move away from the set; he has no intention of

following them. One might say that he is now on their side, against

his own father.

106.

MAKE-UP & HAIR DRESSING ROOM, OR SOME OTHER PLACE. 1994

In some place of the warehouse where no one can see them and they can

speak calmly. Mateo and Lena.

During this time, Lena has been keeping her end of the deal and

continues to live with Ernesto Martel but, as much as she attempts to

diffuse it, its effect has been devastating. She is very depressed.

She can hardly hold herself up. Lena's state of mind and how it

affects the shooting, makes Mateo feel impotent and guilty.

Lena breathes, grasping for a solution and for breath. She attempts

to regain her strength.

Mateo kisses her as one kisses one shipwrecked, although the one

shipwrecked is really him. In any case, the kiss brings life back to

both of them.

107. LOFT PINA. REPEAT THE TAKE. 1994

Motor. Action. The clap board indicates that they will shoot take

number thirteen. A traveling shot follows Lena as she limps toward

the door. She looks through the peephole, behind it, Chon. They are

supposed to be good friends, but she's the last person Lena wants to

see.

Pina treats her with a friendly disdain, which plays comically. She

has once again recovered her strength and her lightness. Her low

spirits have disappeared and she comes off thoughtless and impudent.

Her reenactment has an effect on Chon, who also performs much better

than in the previous take.

These first few phrases are enough to determine that the two actresses

have improved. Lena is now a different actress, light and delicious.

Mateo smiles, brimming with admiration.

108. EDITING ROOM. INT. DAY. 1994

Mateo and his editor (and the assistant editor) watch the end of the

sequence on the Moviola.

Mateo smiles, satisfied. On the same table where the Moviola sits,

Luis, the editor, has a notebook in which each page corresponds to a

sequence, numbered respectively. The sequences are divided by shots

and the shots by the number of takes.

Luis draws a circle around take number thirteen.

Luis, an editing assistant and Mateo, sitting in front of the Moviola,

examine the footage.

There is a palpable complicity between Luis and Mateo. Luis has edited

all of Mateo's films, they have been colleagues for a long time. As

with Judit, despite their differences, one can tell that Luis belongs

to Mateo's artistic family.

Cut to.

109. EDITING ROOM. INT. EVENING. 1994

Time passes.

The characters are dressed differently.

As they load the film and sound onto the Moviola, we hear Harry's

voice-off.

Only audio:

YEAR 2008. VOICE-OFF OF HARRY SPEAKING TO DIEGO. We hear it over the

running Moviola.

He hasn't finished saying this when we hear the phone ring. The

assistant, phone in hand: (to Mateo) "It's for you". He takes it,

surprised, he is still staring at the Moviola screen. It's Lena.

He exits the editing room.

110. CINEARTE [EDITING AND POST-PRODUCTION STUDIO]. STAIRWAY.

INT. NIGHT. 1994

Mateo descends the stairs of Cinearte at a good clip, he wasn't

expecting Lena's visit. He can sense something's happened.

When he arrives at the foyer, he can't find her.

The phone operator (ugly, but polite) at the reception desk tells him

Lena is in the bathroom.

111. CINEARTE. COSTUMER'S BATHROOM. INT. NIGHT. 1994

He enters the bathroom and finds Lena, barefoot, wearing only her bra

and panties, cleaning wounds she's suffered on her face and legs. The

surface of the sink is tainted with blood. Mateo looks at her,

horrified. (She is no longer wearing a cast). A man's jacket lies on

top of the counter, this is the only piece of clothing that appears in

this scene.

Mateo cannot believe his eyes. He hurls insults at Ernesto Senior.

Lena's apparent composure is purely hysterical.

112. CINEARTE. EXT. NIGHT. 1994

Mateo and Lena exit Cinearte.

They enter a cab that is waiting for them.

The cab begins moving.

Mateo gives the cab driver his address.

Mateo looks through his pockets, fortunately, he has all his credit

cards on him.

113. LANZAROTE. FAMARA BEACH. BUNGALOW ZONE. EXT. DAY. 1994

Mateo and Lena are living in a bungalow zone on Famara Beach, a

complex nestled between the beach and the foot of a mountain. It is a

special and intimate place, like an enormous grotto, where the sky is

its ceiling and the mountains one of its walls.

Lena and Mateo exit a bungalow and get into a rented car, a red Opel

Corsa, not in very good shape.

114. EL GOLFO BEACH. EXT. AT DAY'S END. 1994

On the peak of a reddish rock, on Golfo Beach, Mateo takes photographs

of the natural wonders surrounding him. Next to him, Lena

contemplates the view.

What Mateo sees with his camera:

a) Wine colored rocks

b) The yellow-green lake circumscribed by a rope that has become

white, against the black sand.

c) The black sand of the enormous beach, licked by the shimmering foam

of the waves.

d) The rocky walls enveloping the beach, eroded through centuries by

the wind on the surface of which it has created peaks and valleys

resembling the jutted edge of a watch cog.

One of the images captures part of a wine-colored rock. Below it, the

infinite surface of the black beach, licked by the white foam of the

waves. In the backdrop, an immense limestone wall, its surface full of

pit holes where the wind circulates.

The sequence ends with a close-up of the click of Mateo's camera's

shutter, opening and closing like an owl's eye.

115. SOUVENIR AND PHOTOGRAPHY STORE. LANZAROTE. INT. DAY. 1994

Mateo-Harry and Lena pick up their photos at the store's counter. The

owner of the shop hands them to him, he is an attractive and bohemian

middle-aged man.

Mateo opens the envelope impatiently, he wants to make sure that his

photographs are, in effect, the ones inside it.

He looks at the last one closely, the landscape with the rocks, the

beach, the foam, etc. Somewhere on the vast black-sand beach one can

make out a couple, their size is tiny compared to the immensity of the

beach. The two are melded into a tight embrace. The beach is

deserted. Mateo had not been aware of them when he took the

photograph and is overtaken by his discovery.

He shows it to Lena. Half-joking.

Mateo asks the bohemian Attendant for a larger print.

116. MATEO AND LENA, INSIDE THE CAR, ON THE HIGHWAY. EXT. DAY.

1994

They go through various traffic circles. Mateo comments that it is

"the island of the useless traffic circles". "That's part of its

charm", comments Lena.

117. TRAFFIC CIRCLE WITH CESAR MANRIQUE SCULPTURE. EXT. DAY.

1994

They stop on one of the stop signs at the traffic circle. In the

center there is a huge mobile sculpture by Cesar Manrique, rocked by

the wind.

Mateo and Lena exit the car to take pictures of themselves. Their

faces close together, their eyes happy. The sculpture turning around

itself produces a strange screeching sound.

118. BUNGALOW. FAMARA BEACH. INT. DUSK OR NIGHT. 1994

Many days have passed. Mateo's hair is longer and he appears more

tan, the proximity to nature and the absence of a social life has also

affected Magdalena's appearance, now much more savage, but also more

serene and more humble. She is dressed in cheap clothing, which she

has bought on the island (and which fits her marvelously) and her hair

is pulled up into a messy bun.

The photograph, enlarged, presides on top of a small table where Mateo

writes. The picture is leaning against the wall. It's the only image

inside the bungalow. The photograph is a clear metaphor for the

mysterious quality of the island as well as of the isolation of Mateo

and Lena and of their fusion.

While Mateo writes, Lena cleans the dishes or she does the laundry in

the bathtub. The two wear T-shirts, comfortable and sporty clothes.

(On the tape-deck one hears La Lupe singing: ... "porque hay un hombre

para cada mujer y una mujer para cada hombre, y nosotros somos,

nosotros somos... la pareja" [because there is only one man for each

woman and only one woman for each man, and we are, and we are... the

couple]). Mateo and Magdalena, the couple.

In the bungalow there isn't much furniture; there's a large couch on

which they can lie comfortably, a short table, along with the wooden

table on which Mateo writes. Some armchair and lamps. And a tape-

deck.

Cut to.

119. BUNGALOW. INT. DUSK OR NIGHT. 1994

Engulfed by the couch, Mateo and Lena are absorbed watching, on a

small television, a broadcast of "Voyage in Italy" (Roberto

Rossellini's).

The scene they are watching is set in a place where a group of men are

working on some excavation. The married couple (in the midst of their

breakup), played by George Sanders and Ingrid Bergman, is on a tourist

trip in that area of Italy and they have gone to visit the excavation.

One of the technicians describes the delicate work that is involved in

excavating part of a city that had been buried, centuries ago, by the

lethal eruption of the Vesuvius.

At that moment, the men who are working on the excavation begin, bit

by bit, to uncover a couple, a man and a woman, sleeping in an

embrace, whom the eruption had taken unaware, leaving them preserved

in this position for centuries.

Ingrid Bergman cannot stand the sight of this couple calcined in an

eternal embrace. She compares it to her own marriage, destroyed by

their lack of communication and by the absence of generosity between

them. She walks away from the place, unable to contain her tears.

The scene affects Magdalena and Mateo as much as it had Ingrid

Bergman.

Mateo and Lena instinctively embrace each other, seeking refuge in

each other, their posture echoes that of the calcined couple.

Suddenly, Mateo breaks their embrace. He positions the camera on top

of the table where he writes, not far from where the image of the

other "embrace" sits. He points it toward the couch and he presses

the automatic button. And they take a picture together, locked in an

embrace.

120. PUBLIC PARK. MADRID. EXT. DAY. 2008

Harry and Diego, now completely cured, are sitting on a bench.

Harry takes a deep breath. At this stage of the narrative, it is only

understandable that Diego would want to know everything. But it pains

him to think of what is still left to tell.

121. OFFICE FOR THE FAMARA BUNGALOWS. INT. DAY. 1994

Mateo and Lena are walking toward the office for the bungalow complex.

(Part of the previous dialogue is heard as the couple are approaching

the office)

121. A. INTERIOR OF THE RECEPTION HALL, FAMARA BUNGALOWS. INT.

DAY. 1994

Behind the counter there are two foreign employees, a man and a woman.

Lena addresses them in English, while Mateo keeps himself busy at the

other end of the reception hall, next to a table with magazines and

newspapers. He grabs a newspaper.

In English:

With his back to the counter, at the other end of the reception desk,

Mateo reads a newspaper, frozen.

Suddenly, the employee opens a National newspaper and looks for a

particular page. He shows it to Lena. On the Entertainment page, an

ad for Mateo's movie (Opening Soon). The ad is a close-up of her, in

her role as Pina, in the movie. Lena is stunned. She can't believe

it.

Lena looks toward where Mateo is standing and she notices that he is

as perplexed as she is, staring at the ad for a soon-to-be-released

film in the newspaper.

They exit the office.

122. BUNGALOW COMPLEX. EXT. DAY. 1994

Mateo and Lena walk toward their bungalow as if someone were chasing

them. They have just run into the very thing they have been

attempting to escape in Madrid.

123. TWO WEEKS LATER. ON FAMARA BEACH. EXT. DAY. 1994

A TITLE TAKING UP THE WHOLE SCREEN: TWO WEEKS LATER

A few surfers are preparing to go into the ocean. A father and his

young son toss their kites into the wind.

Lounging on lounge chairs, on a cobble-stone area before one reaches

the sand, Lena and Mateo-Harry are reading the news of the opening of

the film in a National newspaper. They only have one copy and Mateo's

eyes are transfixed on the news.

The note accompanying the event says, in bold type:

"The financier, Ernesto Martel, has managed to gather all of Madrid

for his first film as a producer, missing are only its director and

star."

Two pictures accompany the news of the event. Printed next to them,

there is a review entitled, "Disaster."

Mateo throws the newspaper away from him, enraged. He refuses to read

the review.

The wind dishevels the newspaper pages. Lena rises and chases the

pages that fly, like kites, slightly above the ground.

In mid-flight, she catches the Entertainment page and reads it as she

approaches Mateo, who watches the ocean, feeling impotent, furious,

unable to quite grasp what is happening.

Lena sits down next to him, still reading.

Mateo rises and heads quickly for the bungalow, which functions as the

office for the complex.

Lena follows him, alarmed.

124. OFFICE FOR BUNGALOW COMPLEX. FAMARA BEACH. INT. DAY. 1994

Cut to, directly to the shot of the telephone. Mateo has just dialed

Judit's number. He gets the answering machine, hearing Judit's voice

encourages him to leave a message. "Hi. You have reached Judit

Garcia's voicemail. Leave your message after the tone and I will

return your call as soon as possible."

Mateo leaves his message.

He also rings Luis, the editor. He also doesn't answer. He leaves

Luis a shorter and more violent message.

He looks at Lena, breathless, his face contorted from sheer

helplessness.

125. RETURN TO 2008. HARRY'S HOME. DEN. DAY.

Harry is standing, pacing back and forth. Diego stands next to the

bookcase. The drawer with the photographs is open.

He looks at the photograph of the traffic circle and at the one of

"The embrace" on the black sand of Golfo Beach.

He has taken them out of the large brown envelope. At the bottom of

the drawer one can begin to see Luis' (the editor) notebook. Diego is

holding a Dymo label machine, (this Dymo has appeared in previous

scenes) with all of its keyboard buttons, corresponding to the regular

alphabet, in Braille. He is writing, in Braille, "Famara  Lanzarote

94" so that he can stick the raised title onto the old envelope.

Diego thinks about this.

126. RESTAURANT. EL MIRADOR [THE LOOKOUT]. EXT. DUSK. 1994

(Night falls while they dine.)

Mateo and Magdalena dine at "El Mirador," a local restaurant with

spectacular views. Their table is beside a long sliding-door window

that overlooks the valley. A group of rocks seem to grow next to the

window as if they were plants made of stone. The view of the valley

is breathtaking.

There are few patrons inside the restaurant. Perhaps a foreign

couple, sitting far from Lena and Mateo. A waiter brings their first

course. They are drinking wine.

Lena appears melancholic and fearful.

Mateo imagines the situation, it upsets him. He is perturbed by the

very idea of Lena's past with Ernesto, but he doesn't want to upset

her on the night before his departure. They have gone out to dinner

with just the opposite intent.

Lena smiles. She is both comforted and relived by remembering that

moment.

Mateo is moved by her use of those terms to speak of their first

meeting.

Cut to.

126. A. CIRCULAR PARKING AT "EL MIRADOR." EXT. NIGHT. 1994

They exit in an embrace and head toward their car, parked nearby.

They kiss before they get in the car. We notice another car which we

will have the occasion to recall in the future, the camera gives it

just a passing glance.

And she smiles, as if the worry has already passed, so as not to

disquiet Mateo.

127. IN MOVEMENT. THE ISLAND, NIGHTTIME. INSIDE AND OUTSIDE

OF THE CAR. LANZAROTE. 1994.

View of the sea of lava or of La Geria in an aerial shot with the car

moving across the landscape. The full moon allows us to glimpse

through the darkness of the landscape.

Mateo's car once again heads for the bungalow complex. Show the

highway illuminated by the headlights and the landscape as it appears

to its left and right.

From inside the car, one can see the mobile sculpture of Cesar

Manrique at a distance.

Lena does not elaborate on the dangers that Mateo has saved her from,

he doesn't understand them exactly, but he likes to hear her say so.

They approach the traffic circle. A set of lights first betrays the

presence of a car that appears from the left. Mateo yields to it, and

briefly kisses Magdalena on the lips.

Mateo continues on his way, a short instant later, as he enters the

traffic circle, an SUV moving at full speed crashes into them.

Everything happens very fast. From inside the car, without any

particular attention to Lena or Mateo, the screen fills up with light,

noise and darkness. All the different noises form a deafening magma.

At the center of the traffic circle, Cesar Manrique's sculpture

rotates, propelled by the wind.

In any case, we will also shoot the crash from the outside. And

although it will not be obvious at first sight, the back side of

Mateo's car is illuminated by the headlights of a car that we never

quite see, but which has been a witness to the accident.

128. TRAFFIC CIRCLE WITH MOBILE SCULPTURE. LANZAROTE. EXT.

NIGHT. 1994.

The huge mobile sculpture by Cesar Manrique continues to rotate with

the wind immediately following the collision.

One can hear the screeching wheels of the SUV escaping from the

accident scene. One also hears the sound of a second vehicle, which

approaches and stops, and something that sounds like a door opening

and a moan.

The camera only focuses on the sculpture, swaying in the wind.

129. MATEO-HARRY'S HOME. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

Diego looks at Harry in silence, he doesn't say a word. He is still

holding the Dymo. Harry also says nothing.

When Harry's face once again appears, we begin to hear his voice-off.

130. OUTSIDE A HOSPITAL. LANZAROTE. EXT. DAY. 1994.

The entrance to a Hospital in Lanzarote.

Through one of the windows, we can see Mateo's gaunt and nebulous

figure resting on a bed, his head bandaged.

131. INSIDE THE HOSPITAL ROOM. LIGHT COMING THROUGH THE

WINDOW. INT DAY. 1994.

Just as in the beginning, Judit is next to Mateo's bed. She is

holding his hand and begs him:

132. LANZAROTE HOSPITAL. PSYCHIATRIC WARD. INT. DAY. 1994.

A naturalist decor and stage-setting of an island Hospital of that

era, located in a very picturesque place. Through the window we can

see the local surroundings. The walls are a pastel color, green or

blue, an aquatic color, and they have various spots where humidity has

seeped through.

Other than the psychiatrist, there is another doctor present,

explaining the situation to Judit.

133. HOSPITAL. EXIT. EXT. DAY. 1994.

Days or weeks later.

Judit exits the hospital, with blind-Mateo (he's hidden behind black

sunglasses), now without the bandages or very few, and with little

Diego (eight years old), holding hands. Mateo walks tentatively and

slowly. He will probably be aided by the typical blind man's cane.

They get into a car that is waiting for them. Judit instructs the

driver to take them to Famara Beach, to the bungalow complex.

134. LANZAROTE. ROUTE TO FAMARA. HIGHWAY. EXT. DAY. 1994.

A CLOUDY AND WINDY DAY.

(This is a good opportunity to show some of the more dramatic

landscapes of the island. The lava sea, black and twisted, and the

rented car that crosses it through the highway that divides it. Or

"La Geria" and its vine stalks buried in half-spheres of black dirt to

protect them from the winds. The green palm tree fronds flop around

against the backdrop of this black-dirt landscape.)

Inside the car, Mateo asks Judit:

Mateo nods in defeated acknowledgement.

135. FAMARA BEACH. BUNGALOW COMPLEX. EXT. DAY. 1994.

A CLOUDY AND WINDY DAY.

The car stops in front of the bungalow that functions as the

"Reception Desk" for the complex.

Judit and little Diego exit. Judit helps Mateo out.

Mateo remains glued to the ground. He can't move. Judit stares at

him. Even though Mateo had renounced being Mateo, he has inherited

his most painful memories. Being near the RECEPTION bungalow, and

thus near the bungalow where he lived with Magdalena, generates some

kind of spasm in him that keeps him from moving. He feels an intense

heat (inside and outside of him), as if he were approaching a bonfire

the flames of which would slowly scorch him, were he to move.

(Perhaps we'll have to inlay the image with the flames of an imaginary

conflagration). The face contorted.

The idea excites little Diego.

He approaches Mateo and instinctively grabs his hand. Judit watches

the couple. The situation unfolds before she can stop it.

Judit is worried about the wind. She buttons Diego's jacket and wraps

his scarf around him. She does the same thing with Mateo.

Little Diego grabs Mateo's hand. Despite the wind, the boy is excited

about the idea of going to the beach. He has just become Mateo's

guide and Mateo lets him guide him, like a somnambulist.

136. BUNGALOWS OFFICE. INT. DAY. 1994.

In the offices of the complex, the two employees are in the middle of

a brawl. (Consult with the original) In front of the desk, Judit

addresses one of them, in English.

Judit gestures that she doesn't understand.

137. FAMARA. ROUTE TO THE BEACH. NEXT TO THE BUNGALOWS. EXT.

DAY. 1994.

Mateo and little Diego walk only a few meters past bungalow number

two, where he lived with Magdalena. At that moment they are walking

facing the wind, a fierce wind that threatens to tear off their

clothes. It is as if nature itself wanted to keep Mateo from walking

away from the bungalow where he loved Lena. From this point on, his

life will become just that, an endless battle against the elements and

against the memory of Lena.

Little Diego's voice distracts him.

At times little Diego forgets that Mateo cannot see. So he points

toward the sky of a nearby beach, whose surface is dotted by various

kites.

Mateo is grateful for the life-affirming sound of the boy's voice and

so he allows himself to be towed.

The wind's violent sweep over all the different elements that compose

the landscape creates a symphony of strange sounds.

138. BUNGALOW No.2. FAMARA. INT. AND EXT. DAY. 1994.

Judit, using the key she was handed at the Reception Desk, opens the

door to bungalow number two. She enters into what had been Mateo and

Lena's love nest. She takes the entire space in with one glance; she

is overtaken, as if she has entered an ancestral and sacred space.

She imagines Mateo and Lena filling up the space with their presence.

(A strange modesty comes over her, but her curiosity is greater).

Lena's spirit (at least in Judit's mind) hangs in the air, but in the

material surrounding her absence is absolute. Those who took her body

did not leave any trace of Lena. Not a single object, not a single

dress. Nothing. Ernesto Senior's cohorts (or Ernesto himself) took

all of her things.

Mateo's clothes and things are found piled up in a closet. Yet the

table where he sat to write remains intact. On it, the photograph of

the embrace on Golfo Beach still rests, along with his notebook, blank

pages and some envelopes.

Judit observes the photograph on Golfo Beach as if it were alive,

still palpitating. And she imagines that the two lovers, locked in an

embrace, lost in the anonymous vastness of the black sand, are Mateo

and Lena.

She opens the desk's drawer and, much to her surprise, finds it

overflowing with torn photographs of Mateo and Lena, shuffled in no

particular order (one might say they had been thrown violently into

the drawer. The violence of the hand that ripped and threw them has

left its pulsating mark).

Judit picks up all the pieces, slowly and delicately, and she places

them inside a brown envelope that she finds next to Mateo's notebook.

Her sense of guilt is so profound that it dries out her throat and the

expression on her face.

139. FAMARA BEACH. EXT. DAY. 1994.

At the base of the complex, on one end of the beach, the car that

brought them is waiting. Judit places the bags with Mateo's

belongings, which she has just carried from the bungalow, inside the

trunk. She raises her head, emotionally exhausted. From where she

stands she can see little Diego, ecstatic, in front of a group of

surfers wearing brilliant colors traversing the waves and a group of

kites (around eight or ten) darting through the sky like flying fish.

Mateo is motionless, in front of the sea, soaking up its strength.

Judit's pain is at odds with the boy's joy and the overwhelming

vitality that the place exudes at that very moment.

She begins to walk toward Mateo and little Diego. Once she is a few

meters away, she observes a surfer riding a wave. In the foreground

of her line of sight stands Mateo, out of focus. As he comes into

focus, Judit yells out to him:

It seems as though she is invoking the wind (a hurricane) which moves

the waves along with the expert surfers riding them.

When he hears Judit's voice, Mateo turns to face in her direction and

RESPONDS:

Judit approaches them, petrified with emotion. The wind tears tears

from her eyes.

Judit walks in front of the blind man and the boy, her eyes glitter.

Mateo has responded to her call, and that has filled her with

uncontrollable emotion. At this very moment she decides that she will

dedicate her life exclusively to the care of this man. This is how it

will be.

140. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

Diego is still sitting on the floor, next to the brown envelope. He

sticks on the Braille title, "Famara. Lanzarote 94." In front of him,

spread on the floor like a puzzle, lie the pieces of various embraces

between Mateo and Lena (like archeological finds, like the Minoan

paintings in Crete). The pieces begin to join with one another, an

order is established and, soon, the better part of the picture is

clear. There are four photographs where, regardless of the missing

pieces, one can make out the image. Two are of embraces and the rest

are of domestic scenes. The scratches on the four photographs reveal

the passing of time.

Neither of the two men speak. Mateo remains seated at his desk.

Pensive.

Cut to.

141. HARRY'S HOME. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

They prepare to watch/hear a DVD. Diego goes over Harry's collection

(even though one would imagine he knows it). On the spines, the

titles are written in Braille. He has already asked him what he would

like to watch (he reads off some titles; in general, all the movies

are made prior to '94, all classics).

While he looks for it...

They pick a movie (chosen by Mateo). Diego hooks up the television,

then inserts the DVD.

142. CONTINUED

Images of Mateo Blanco's last film, "Girls and Suitcases," appear on a

random television station, it is the beginning of one of the sequences

of which the spectator is already aware.

For Harry it is all a shock, there is not doubt that it is his film.

It is the sequence where Magdalena, wearing a cast, opens the door for

her friend Chon.

143. WHAT WE SEE ON THE TELEVISION SCREEN. A SCENE FROM "GIRLS

AND SUITCASES." PINA'S LOFT. INT. 2008.

Pina limps toward the door. Through the peephole she sees her friend

Chon, looking back with an exaggerated look of reproach:

RETURN TO 142. IN HARRY'S LIVING ROOM. 2008.

In front of the television, having heard only those two phrases, Harry

jumps up as if propelled by springs.

Diego observes him and then looks at the television.

Sitting on the floor, next to the television, Diego turns up the

volume.

Harry focuses on the sounds from the screen and Diego on everything

else.

144. ON THE TELEVISION. 2008.

Chon enters. (They are supposed to be good friends). Chon has an

endearing appearance, she is a little chubby, well dressed, according

to her age (forty) and her profession, a Counselor for Social Affairs.

Spontaneous and direct (she is kind of a Bette Midler in her forties),

but the actress is lacking grace and her restlessness reveals more

about her fear of running into the moving camera, than about the very

funny way that the character inhabits her own anxiety. Lena is also

quite languid, lacking spark, tired and unenthusiastic. (As a comedy,

it's without charm and, as a drama, it's uninteresting, that's what

the critics said).

As if Ivan's phone call depended on Chon.

145. LIVINGROOM, HARRY'S HOME. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

Harry twitches around in his chair, anxious and impatient. He doesn't

like what he hears.

146. ON THE TELEVISION. 2008.

All said without any spark. The actresses are reciting the text

mechanically and they appear tired of interpreting it.

147. LIVINGROOM, HARRY'S HOME. INT. NIGHT. 2008

Diego and Harry are still staring at the television. Harry with his

ear turned toward the screen, disappointed and tense. Diego is more

indulgent of the scene.

Each of the men focus their respective senses on the television

screen.

With the same fury with which he had thrown down the newspaper with

the bad review of his film onto the sand, he abruptly shuts off the

television monitor.

He remains suspended for a few moments, as if trying to find an

explanation for what he has just heard. Was he so caught up in

Magdalena's problems that he was unable to distinguish when a take was

good or bad?

Cut to.

148. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

The next morning, Harry wakes up early. He has spent an entire night

thinking about the same thing. Dressed in a bathrobe, but not

showered yet, he walks over to his desk.

All these scenes take place in the dark. A faint light from the

breaking dawn enters through the corners of the drapes that cover the

windows.

He opens the drawer with the photographs. (When Diego had opened it

before, we had been able to see that along with the photographs there

were other objects, for example, Luis' notebook (the editor). Diego

had not mentioned any of this to Harry). Harry pokes around in the

drawer with his hands, finds the notebook.

He grabs it. He opens it on top of his desk. He touches the

different pages. The tips of his finger tips run over the numbers

corresponding to the sequences, the shots, the selected takes,

attempting to find a message.

149. DIEGO'S ROOM. INT. DAY. 2008.

Harry walks over to Diego's room with the notebook in hand. The boy

is naked, drying himself with a towel after his shower.

Harry asks permission to enter.

Not giving him time to get dressed, Harry hands him the notebook.

Diego looks through it carefully. The last pages are empty. The rest

only have the numbers pertaining to the sequences, the shots, and the

selected takes, like we have seen in the sequence with the Moviola.

Although, there is something written on the last page. "My new

number: 91 6994079."

Harry hands him his mobile phone.

Diego dials the number and hands the phone to Harry.

He turns around and leaves.

150. HARRY'S HOME. DEN. INT. DAY. 2008.

He exits the bedroom and heads for his dark den.

Harry keeps silent.

Cut to.

151. LIVING ROOM, HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

Diego is in the kitchen. He is preparing breakfast, both for himself

and Mateo.

Harry, heavy-hearted, approaches the kitchen, pensive. A half-hearted

"happy birthday" escapes Diego's lips. Harry doesn't react, perhaps

he hasn't heard him. Noticing the look on his face Diego is not eager

to insist.

Diego remains silent and lets Harry continue talking.

Diego places plates with toast and juice on the table. He serves

Harry some coffee and adds sugar.

Harry finds the cup easily.

152. JUDIT AND DIEGO'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

Judit returns from location scouting. She enters her house. She hugs

her son, effusively.

She drops a large suitcase, with wheels. (The sequence takes place in

various rooms in the house. From the foyer she should move toward the

bedroom or the kitchen, where she makes herself some tea, or where she

opens bags full of food that she's brought, typical to the region

she's just visited. (She looks inside the refrigerator and doesn't

find anything). Things like that.

Diego had not realized.

Judit looks at her son. She finds him different. As if all the

confidences shared with Harry had left a physical and visible mark on

him. Diego seems to guess what his mother is thinking.

Judit gets the sense that she can no longer speak to her son in the

same way that she could before she left on her trip. Those two weeks

have irreversibly changed him.

(Offended, she doesn't want her son to think she is a drag, so she

makes an effort not to bombard him with questions)

Diego disappears and leaves her in mid-sentence.

(Is this his way of avenging himself? Perhaps his reaction is unfair,

but he cannot stand to stay there with his mother, answering thousands

of questions regarding an "accident" when there has been another

"accident" that he is much more intrigued by and that she has kept

silent for fourteen years.)

153. MATEO-HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

(The maid may be around)

Mateo goes to open the door. Judit has the key in one hand and a huge

flower bouquet in the other. They greet each other enthusiastically.

Mateo-Harry attempts to hug her but his arms collide with the flowers.

Cut to.

154. MATEO-HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

Mateo and Judit talk, they are sitting on a sofa, the conversation is

already mid-way.

Judit brushes his acknowledgement off, with a half-smile.

Judit is upset by both of their evasiveness.

Judit looks at him, horrified. She can't seem to comprehend such a

turbulent and simple story.

Judit sighs, defenseless and horrified.

Judit takes a cigarette out of its box and lights it.

Judit smokes in silence, she is curious to know what Mateo and Diego

have been talking about in her absence, but she doesn't dare ask

Mateo.

She laments it, as if she had been put aside and they had not taken

her into account.

Cut to.

155. "NO VIEWS" RESTAURANT. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

AT THE BAR BEFORE ONE ENTERS THE RESTAURANT.

Judit and Mateo are having something to drink. Mateo tilts his head

subtly in front of Judit.

Judit describes it, with few words and almost shyly.

The fact that Mateo betrays that type of interest flatters and

disconcerts her.

Diego looks at them, amused. He hands Mateo three DVDs (Scorsese's

"Goodfellas" (or the Coen Brother's "Fargo"), Tarantino's "Kill Bill,"

and Kiarostami's "Taste of Cherry").

Near them, on the bar table, two couples talk excitedly as if they

were about to go on a ride at an Amusement Park.

The barman tells them they may now enter.

156. "NO VIEWS" RESTAURANT. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

Once they've crossed the doorway, a man signals them to follow him.

He's a blind man that, like Mateo, moves smoothly, he knows the place

by heart.

The restaurant is completely shrouded in darkness, all the waiters,

men and women, are blind. The one in charge of Mateo, Diego, and

Judit introduces himself:

There is not a single light inside. The following sequences take

place in absolute darkness.

157. "NO VIEWS" RESTAURANT. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

They have arrived to their table, as signaled by the waiter. Table

number eight. He tells them where to sit.

Each of them reaches for the objects as indicated by the waiter around

an imaginary clock.

Judit still believes this is some kind of joke and that the lights

will come on at any moment and that something spectacular will appear

before her eyes.

If she had been able to see, she would have been witness to the very

interesting scenes surrounding her. Two couples kissing, with bestial

enjoyment. And a well-bred woman performing fellatio on the man

sitting next to her. No one sees them except our camera.

The waiter responds.

Judit says nothing. She hides her nervousness in order not to ruin

Mateo's night, he seems fascinated with the place and completely

unaware of the process she is now living: the discovery of absolute

darkness. A bottomless pit.

The waiter leaves them.

Slowly, Judit begins to walk the plank that will plunge her into

anxiety. The evening feels far from a party, but she doesn't want to

spoil it for either Mateo or Diego. She hears Mateo explaining to

HIM:

Silence. Judit pours herself some water and drinks. And she gets

depressed, in silence.

She lights a cigarette.

158. "NO VIEWS" RESTAURANT. AT THE TABLE. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

Javier, the waiter, arrives with the wine. He tells Judit she can't

smoke. She puts out the cigarette. (On the floor?)

To enliven the occasion, Diego proposes a toast.

Mateo pours the glasses. They each grab one. Clumsily, they bring

them close until they can her the sound of the crystal clinking.

They attempt to clink glasses. It is not such an easy task. The

three glasses head for each other in the darkness, it would have been

easiest to have all three meet at the center, but instead each opts to

find the other. Only Mateo puts his forward and leaves it in place,

waiting for the other two to find his. When this happens, Judit's

glass collides with too much force, breaks his glass and wine spills

all over the table cloth. Mateo attempts to make light of the

situation, as if nothing had happened. He presses his fingers into

the wine that has spilled on the tablecloth and exclaims:

Judit attempts to heed his request, she leans forward, offering her

head, parallel to the table. Mateo can't quite find her ear. Judit

collapses. Her head topples onto the table, without strength, and she

bursts into tears.

Cut to.

159. "THE MIRROR" TERRACE. INT. EXT. NIGHT. 2008.

Show both terraces, the exterior one and the glass-enclosed one. The

sequence begins once all three of them (Judit, Diego and Harry) are

seated and drinking. Judit's emotional state has not improved. The

short sequence of events that she's had to live through since her

arrival have been making her increasingly tense and worried. She is

trying to combat the letdown by way of gin-and-tonic.

(They are sitting on one extreme of the ellipsis that makes up the

glass-enclosed terrace, decorated with cheesy Deco motifs).

At the center, where the bar is located, two or three waiters prepare

to clean up the tables. Once in a while, they look over at the only

three remaining clients. Once in a while, they are also able to catch

Judit's words. And once in a while, the waiters function as the

audience, witnessing a theatrical production. Although on this

occasion, the setting is real and so is the drama.

Judit sips-down the gin-and-tonic quite rapidly. Mateo and Diego

accompany her.

Cut to.

160. CONTINUED. MIRROR TERRACE. INT. NIGHT.

A topic which they have waited to broach since she arrived from her

trip.

Neither of the two men respond, but they are both made uncomfortable

by the comment.

Mateo directs his face toward her, surprised and polite.

She takes another sip to draw courage, but she's already gathered

enough momentum:

She takes a deep breath and continues:

161. CONTINUED. MIRROR TERRACE. INT. NIGHT.

Judit rises. She approaches the bar table. She orders another gin-

and-tonic. The waiter doesn't dare to tell her they've already

closed, so he serves her.

With the glass in her hand, Judit returns to the table where Mateo and

Diego wait, expectantly.

She has observed them whispering, but she hasn't heard what they have

said. She sits down with them.

Judit takes a sip.

Judit takes a sip from her drink, to gather her strength.

Diego attempts to say that he, too, believes him, but Judit doesn't

give him time.

Mateo and Diego listen to her, with renewed attention. This new

information reveals an unexpected possibility, something that neither

of the two men had considered. Their reaction toward Judit's painful

declaration changes in character. In Mateo's case, his compassion

vanishes and is replaced by doubt, now incited by new suspicions.

(Images of Ernesto Junior, inside a rented car, following the couple

across various places on the island, including the highway that leads

to Famara, on that last night.)

He says this with spite and somewhat disparagingly. For Judit it's

like a splash of cold water to the face.

The confession, rather than ending as a liberating catharsis, has

devolved in its opposite. The silence is weighed down by suspicion

and the new abyss between Mateo and Judit.

Never before has Judit felt Mateo this distant and antagonistic. Her

dramatic confession, far from liberating her, has opened new wounds

and generated new suspicions. And Judit feels taken over by an arid

anxiety, corrosive, unbearable. She almost can't breathe.

Cut to.

162. CASTELLANA STREET. EXT. NIGHT. 2008.

Judit, Mateo and Diego are inside Judit's car. Diego is driving. The

three are tense and silent.

163. MATEO'S BUILDING. EXT. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

In silence, they arrive at the entrance of the building where Mateo

lives. (Mateo is possibly carrying his umbrella or a blind man's

cane). He exits the car. Judit walks him to the front door. She is

glad that Mateo can't see her look of embarrassment.

Mateo doesn't respond. When the entrance door shuts like a resounding

"no."

Judit waits until she sees him disappear into the elevator.

164. MATEO'S DOORWAY. EXT. NIGHT. 2008.

From Judit's point of view, Mateo disappears into the elevator, which

soon begins to rise.

165. STREET. IN FRONT OF THE ENTRANCE TO MATEO'S BUILDING.

EXT. NIGHT. 2008.

Undone, and she no longer pretends otherwise, Judit returns to the

car.

Before she opens the door she bends over and retches violently.

Diego gets out of the car and holds her by the waist. He attempts to

help her.

Judit's face is contorted. She wipes a thread of saliva still hanging

from her lips. Despite the retching, she has not vomited anything

other than liquid.

Diego finds the purse in the car and hands it to her immediately.

Judit searches through the purse, impatiently. She takes the purse

and drops all of its contents on the sidewalk. She find a box of

tranquilizers. The pill she presses through the aluminum seal comes

out with a pop; she places it on her tongue. She leans over the car.

Diego looks at her, scared, he has never seen her like this.

Articulating poorly, so as to not move her tongue, Judit say to him:

166. JUDIT'S HOME. INT. NIGHT. 2008.

Diego hands her a glass of water. Once in bed, Judit takes two

sleeping pills. She has overcome the crisis.

Diego looks at her, very concerned. His mother has never shown

herself to be so physically fragile. He wants to help her, but it

doesn't seem like there is anything more he can do than what he

already has.

Judit attempts to smile in order to calm him.

Judit eyes swell with tears.

He kisses her twice and exits. The curtains that cover a large window

that looks out into an interior terrace are made from the same

material as those that Mateo has in his bedroom.

168. HARRY'S HOME. INT. DAWN. 2008.

The next day.

Standing over his desk, Mateo searches the desk drawer under the

computer. It's open. There are not many things inside (credit cards,

envelopes with money, a jump drive, the MP3, etc.), he goes through it

meticulously until he finds the note that Ray X had left him the day

he came to ask him if they could write a script together. Ray X has

hand-written his own telephone number on the note. He goes over it

with his fingertips, as if he could see through them.

He dials a familiar number, Diego's.

169. JUDIT'S HOME. DIEGO'S BEDROOM. INT. DAWN. 2008.

Diego's mobile phone vibrates four or five times. But Diego is

sleeping and he doesn't wake up. The mobile phone stops vibrating.

In all the scenes where Mateo is alone at home, he never turns on the

light. He will be in the dark, lightly illuminated by any light that

the cracks in the windows let through.

RETURN TO 168.

Mateo leaves him a message: "I am sorry to call you so early. Tell

your mother to call me as soon as she can."

170. HARRY'S STREET. EXT. DAY. 2008.

As usual, Mateo buys his newspaper at the same news-agent. He turns

his body toward the Modeling Agency, but no one there enters or exits

whose odor or whose clacking heels rings familiar.

There are a few people on the sidewalk and those he crosses are all

heading, like zombies, to work.

171. BAR ACROSS. 8 IN THE MORNING. EXT. INT. DAY. 2008.

He enters the bar where his Waiter Friend works. The place has just

opened. There are very few clients.

He greets him.

He hands him the phone and the piece of paper where Ray X's number is

written.

172. KITCHEN, JUDIT'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

Diego is meticulously preparing breakfast for himself and Judit. He

works hard to ensure that they both start their day with the help of a

generous and varied breakfast, toast, juice, coffee and tea,

marmalade, toasted bread spread with oil and tomato, etc..

Judit appears through one of the kitchen doors, calm, with a look of

having rested (but also with the hangover of having survived a

nightmarish day, the day before). Diego does not hear her approach.

The mother takes advantage of this to observe her son with a tender

smile. When Diego turns to look, the tenderness disappears a little,

more out of modesty and a lack of habit. In any case, Judit enjoys

the peacefulness of the moment: her son caring for her after the

storm.

Judit looks over the culinary display.

Judit's expression changes, now a bit more somber.

Assuming it will be painful, he attempts to dissuade her:

Diego looks at her, astonished.

Still thinking about what he has just heard, Diego places the

breakfast on the main kitchen table and serves his mother a cup of

tea. Judit begins to drink it, one tiny sip at a time.

The pieces begin to fall together.

Diego remains pensive for a moment.

She looks at the clock and it's 11h.

Judit grabs her son's phone, agitated once again, and dials Mateo's

number.

173. ALTERNATING BETWEEN JUDIT'S HOME. INT. DAY. 2008.

174. PUERTA DE HIERRO MANSION. ERNESTO JUNIOR'S STUDY. INT.

DAY. 2008.

In the beginning the shot is close up and so we are not aware of where

he is. All one can see is a bit of a curtain, out of focus.

Phone conversation.

The shot opens up, and we discover Ernesto Junior at the other end of

the room, next to a 16mm camera (on a tripod) recording everything

that Mateo says and does, while he searches around in some drawers.

175. PUERTA DE HIERRO MANSION. ERNESTO'S STUDY. INT. DAY. 2008.

The studio has a different configuration than when his father lived,

but we recognize the place nonetheless; when the father was alive the

space served a different purpose.

Ernesto looks at Mateo fearlessly, he is still determined to search,

urgently, for something inside the drawers of a chest. The place is a

pretty big mess.

The silence on the other end of the line reassures her.

Mateo looks over at Ernesto Junior. The camera is still on its

tripod, rolling.

Ernesto, finally, finds a DVD. He has it in his hand and brings it

toward Mateo. (His hand enters into view on the screen of the 16mm

camera).

Ernesto takes his hand and places the DVD softly onto it.

Ernesto speaks naturally, for the first time, Mateo takes him

seriously.

176. MATEO-HARRY HOME. INT. DAY. 2008

Diego is watching the images of "the making of", while Mateo works out

on his treadmill.

At the last moment, an instant prior to being struck by the SUV, Mateo

and Lena kiss inside the car. They are then distracted by a noise

from the car that is about to hit them. These images have been

recorded from inside a different car, which has been following them

from behind, at a safe distance (Ernesto Junior's car).

Mateo reaches the living room from the other end of the house,

dripping with sweat.

Diego has just watched the kiss and the accident. He rewinds and he

pauses right at the moment when Mateo's and Lena's kiss fills the

whole screen.

They take a look at the images that Ernesto taped at "El Mirador" from

the outside. Through the glass of the large window we see Lena and

Mateo talking.

Mateo watches the screen of the television without being able to see

it, taking in the information Diego gives him.

Mateo watches without seeing the television, he gets close to the

screen. With his fingertips, he caresses the surface, literally

touching Lena's last kiss.

Shots of Mateo's hand caressing the screen, with the image of the

kiss. Shot of Diego observing the entirety of the scene, moved. A

shot of everything. The appropriate kind of music accompanies the

scene as it begins to fade out, bit by bit, while a sign appears:

EPILOGUE.

177. ON THE AVID. INT. 2008

Luis' notebook, open on given sequences, as if Luis were present on

this last moment of the definitive editing. An ashtray with a lit

cigarette. The hands of the editor powering the Avid, directing the

mouse through all the necessary steps until the screen fills with a

block of sequences of "Girls and Suitcases," in Pina's loft.

The images fill the entire screen of the main narration. It begins

with the same sequence Diego and Mateo watched on television.

Everything is the same, but it plays completely differently. The

actresses are funny and fresh. The spectator does not know what the

difference is, but, unconsciously, he must feel enthralled by the

sequences of Pina and Chon, as if spellbound.

178. SCENES FROM "GIRLS AND SUITCASES." PINA'S LOFT. ENTRANCE

HALL. INT. 2008

Pina limps (fed up) toward the door. Looks through the peephole,

behind it, Chon. They are good friends, but Chon is the last person

Pina wants to see right now.

She notices that Pina is wearing a cast on her leg.

On her way to the kitchen Chon notices, through the bedroom door, that

the bed has been burnt. She bumps into the phone that has been ripped

out of its socket, now on the floor. She says nothing, she doesn't

want to pry, but she thinks that Pina's situation must be more

complicated than hers.

179. LOFT'S KITCHEN. INT. 2008

The chickens are living large, free to roam throughout the entire

place.

She also discovers the gazpacho on the kitchen table.

Throughout the conversation Pina makes coffee and prepares a tray of

Fornassetti cups and the whole bit.

Chon looks at her friend.

She grabs the tray, now full with coffee and pastries.

Let's have breakfast on the terrace.

The two women head for the terrace, which sits in front of the

beautiful backdrop curtain of Madrid.

180. LOFT'S TERRACE. INT. 2008

Chickens and rabbits, running around. Lots of plants, etc. An

idyllic and false image. Only the feelings are authentic and the

women's happy disposition for living in hysteria.

Pina's eyes open wide.

Certainly!

I have to get rid of those fifteen kilos as soon as

possible. (Thinks.) Because of the hours we keep,

politicians consume a lot of drugs. So, between my

party cohorts and city hall, I could distribute two

kilos, but what do I do with the rest!

Throw it out!

Are you crazy? How could I throw it out?! I have to

keep the police from finding it in my house... I have

to take it some other place, immediately!

But I don't understand...

(Interrupts.) Well, it's clear, honey!

(Finishes her question.) How is it that the suitcase

appeared in your closet?

(Drinks a little coffee, and takes a bite from a

pastry.) As I was telling you, after breaking up with

my husband, I bumped into this guy on the street who

kept watching at me, good-looking, well hung. Summing

up, I took him home and screwed him over and over...

(Takes another sip of coffee.)

An how was he?

In bed? Divine. Look at my arm hair? I've got

goose-bumps! (She shows her the hair on her arm,

Pina breathes out in solidarity.

Once again, she shows Pina her arm, hair standing straight up.

The doorbell rings:

Pina limps toward the door, uncertain. (Behind it she will find new

adventures). She looks back, toward Chon, half-smiling, tired but

charming, filled with understanding and a love for life, with all its

emotions and its contradictions. It's with this half-smile on

Magdalena's face that the sequence arrives at its end.

181. AVID ROOM. INT. 2008

Mateo, Judit, Diego, and the new editor, somewhat removed from them,

are seated in front of the editing table, they are both moved and

entertained.

Judit is the one who is most deeply moved. She may cry, but this time

her tears will be happy tears, welcome tears.

Judit keeps crying.

