INT. SUNNYVALE - DOCTOR'S OFFICE - NIGHT - 2002

EVAN, 20, good-looking but with dark haunted eyes, frantically

hides himself in an unlit Doctor's office. His face and chest

are covered in blood. He holds his forehead in pain.

FLASHLIGHT BEAMS stab through the darkened corridor hunting

for him. ALARMS SOUND. GUARDS are heard shouting to each

other. Evan grabs a cardboard box and hides under a doctor's

desk. He grabs some paper and begins writing in shorthand.

He takes a deep breath.

Fatigue overwhelms him, but he continues writing...

INT. BUSY HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY - 1982

TITLE: TWENTY YEARS EARLIER

ANDREA TREBORN, twenty-five, an attractive pregnant woman

strapped to a gurney, is rolled down a busy hospital corridor.

She is clearly ready to give birth, and as she flails her

arms, she knocks another patient's IV bottle into the wall.

INT. BUSY HOSPITAL - RECOVERY ROOM - SUPER 8 FOOTAGE - 1982

A tearful Andrea holds newborn EVAN in her hands.

TITLE SEQUENCE OVER SUPER-8 MONTAGE INCLUDING:

INT. BUSY HOSPITAL - RECOVERY ROOM - DAY - 1982

Smiling Andrea holds baby Evan up to the camera, then places

him in a crib.

EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY - 1983

A playground. Evan's father, JASON (23), puts a 1-year old

on a slide.

EXT. LENNY'S HOUSE - DAY - 1987

A birthday party for LENNY, 5, a chubby kid with only a few

friends. Evan, now 5, is gently prodded by Andrea toward

KAYLEIGH, 5, a quiet sweet-looking girl with beautiful hair.

Evan clumsily shakes her hand and she quickly leans over and

kisses his cheek.

He blushes and runs to hug his mother's leg.

END MONTAGE & TITLES.

EXT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING - 1989

In the driveway, 7-year old Evan plays with CRICKETT, a frisky

cocker spaniel puppy.

Andrea, wearing a mechanic's jumpsuit, works impatiently on

the carburetor of a Toyota Celica. Evan pets the dog as he

watches his mother work.

Evan quickly eyes the situation and grabs the 5/16" wrench

from the toolbox.

Evan impatiently watches Andrea turn the bolt.

The carburetor will not set properly. She bangs on it with

the wrench.

Andrea hands the wrench to Evan.

Evan beams as he climbs onto the bumper and screws the carb

back together.

Andrea, meanwhile, strips off her coveralls, revealing a

spotless nurse's uniform underneath.

Evan, disappointed, passes the wrench back to Andrea.

Andrea gets behind the wheel. She turns the ignition and the

engine roars to life. Evan wears a proud smile.

EXT. SCHOOL PARKING LOT - MORNING - 1989

Andrea races through the school zone and heads for the main

doors. Evan's already got the car door open and his foot on

the ground by the time the car skids to a halt. Andrea checks

her watch.

Evan blows Andrea a kiss goodbye and runs into the school.

As Andrea pulls away, MRS. BOSWELL, 35, taps the car window.

Mrs. Boswell's morbid expression stops Andrea.

INT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - CLASSROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The classroom is filled with screaming, running children.

Mrs. Boswell enters the classroom with Andrea and immediately

calls out to TOMMY, a tough seven-year old kid who swings a

whiffle bat at LENNY, now seven, a sniffling, chubby kid.

Evan is surprised to see his mother enter with Mrs. Boswell,

but continues playing with Kayleigh, now seven, a quiet,

sweet-looking girl.

Mrs. Boswell leads Andrea over to the teacher's desk.

Mrs. Boswell opens the bottom drawer of her desk and pulls

out a drawing. Andrea turns to stone when she sees it.

The drawing shows a child holding a bloody knife while

standing on a heap of dead bodies. It's extremely

sophisticated for a seven-year old. Some of the corpses have

been cut open and the insides are surprisingly anatomically

correct.

Andrea sees Evan playing with Lenny, harmless as a bunny,

and struggles to control her concern.

Andrea is visibly shaken now.

EXT. SCHOOL PARKING LOT - LATER

Andrea seems so impacted by this revelation that she cannot

even start the car.

INT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - LATER

The children hang artwork on the walls in prep for Parent's

Night. Each child has a picture of his or her family made

from colored construction paper and macaroni. Evan's picture

(no longer sophisticated) depicts his mother, Crockett and

himself on a green hill. Tommy and Kayleigh's pictures each

show two kids and a single father. And their 'mother' is

stuck to the far end of page.

Lenny beams as he pins-up his picture of an ideal nuclear

family. He looks at Tommy's picture and is confused.

Tommy gets upset. He swipes his hand down Lenny's picture

and his macaroni "mother" crumbles to the floor. Lenny begins

to cry.

Evan takes the ruined picture and leans down next to Lenny.

Lenny, unable to stop crying, begins hyperventilating out of

control. His desperate gasps for breath are frightening.

Evan, scared, looks around for Mrs. Boswell, but cannot find

her. He reaches up to his own picture and quickly tears his

own macaroni "mother" apart and places it over Lenny's

picture. It's a nuclear family again. Lenny slowly is able

to catch his breath.

Kayleigh helps Lenny glue a new "mother" in place and she

smiles gratefully at Evan.

As Evan smiles back at Kayleigh, Mrs. Boswell calmly enters

the room in time to see Evan tacking up his butchered family

portrait. She shivers.

EXT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY - 1989

Gothic. Imposing. Andrea runs up the stairs.

INT. SUNNYVALE - DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

DR. HARLON REDFIELD, 40, a handsome and extremely genial

man, scrutinizes a disturbing drawing.

Andrea nods and forces a thankful smile.

EXT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - NIGHT

The looming building looks even more frightening at night.

Andrea and Evan head up the stairs.

INT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - NIGHT

Andrea leads Evan into Dr. Redfield's office. Dr. Redfield

warmly greets Evan at the door.

Before Dr. Redfield can answer, Andrea cuts him off.

Evan raises an eyebrow at the doctor.

INT. LABORATORY - MOMENTS LATER

Evan looks terrified as he lies on a medical platform as a

series of CAT-scan images are taken. In another part of the

room, a distressed Andrea speaks quietly with Dr. Redfield.

INT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

The next morning. Evan busily writes in his new black-marble

mead comp book:

EVAN'S DIARY

"Today Mommy is taking me to play with Kayley and Tommy. I

will mete there father and see what a real dad is like. Maybe

one day I will mete my Dad."

Andrea, meanwhile, speaks into the phone as she pours Lucky

Charms into a cereal bowl for Evan.

Evan puts down the journal and eats breakfast. He separates

the green clovers from the cereal and drops them to the floor

for Crockett to nibble.

Andrea hangs up the phone and walks into the next room.

INT. HOUSE - DAY

Andrea grabs the pocket book off the coffee table and heads

back into the kitchen. She drops her purse in shock when she

sees: Evan, in doorway, expressionless and holding a large

BUTCHER KNIFE by his side.

Evan sees her but remains expressionless.

Life suddenly springs into Evan's face. He seems stunned to

find himself holding the knife and drops it.

EXT. MILLER HOUSE - MORNING

Andrea, still shaken, drops Evan off at the house of GEORGE

MILLER, 35, a handsome athletic man with an infectious smile.

He approaches the car and opens the door for Evan.

Andrea writes nervously on a piece of paper as Evan gets

out.

Andrea nods thanks and nervously drives away. Evan walks up

to Mr. Miller and momentarily reaches for his hand. Mr. Miller

flinches his hand away and chuckles at Evan.

Evan appears confused for a moment at Mr. Miller's unexpected

rudeness, but walks inside.

INT. MILLER'S HOUSE - DAY

Evan enters the well-kept middle class home and sees his

classmates Kayleigh and Tommy. Kayleigh is dressed in a make-

shift Medieval gown and Tommy is also dressed in a period

costume.

Mr. Miller, holding a full glass of scotch in one hand, sets

the circa-80's bulky video camera on a tripod and plugs it

into the porta-deck.

Evan nods and sticks his arms straight up in the air. Mr.

Miller downs his drink and helps Evan off with his clothes.

Suddenly --

INT. MILLER'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DAY

Evan comes to in an unfamiliar place. The rec-room/basement.

Evan's eyes dart from the fireplace to Mr. Miller's camera

lens and finally to Kayleigh, whose ashen face trembles

slightly.

Panic spreads across Evan's face.

Evan backs up and awkwardly scurries around the basement,

grabbing his clothes.

Panicking.

Kayleigh's eyes are unable to leave the floor. She begins

adjusting her disheveled clothing. Evan trembles.

Tommy silently watches from the top of the basement stairs,

absently wringing the head off one of his sister's dolls.

INT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY

Dr. Redfield places Evan's CAT-scan slides on the light box.

Andrea squints, unable to interpret them.

INT. ANDREA'S CAR - COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Evan, dressed in his Sunday best, writes copiously in a

journal marked "AGE 7."

EVAN'S DIARY

"April 15. Today I get to mete my father. His name is Jason

and he is crazy. I hope he lets me call him dad."

INT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY

Andrea tightly grips Evan's hand as the pair follow Dr.

Redfield down a corridor. Evan's enthusiasm is dampened by

the sounds of distant screams and bloodcurdling laughter.

They walk to the end of the corridor and come to a "Visitor's

Chamber".

Dr.Redfield leads Evan inside. Andrea begins to follow, but

the doctor gestures that she stay outside.

INT. SUNNYVALE - VISITOR'S CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

Evan takes a seat at a long rectangular table. His eyes are

fixated on the door on the other side of the room. Finally,

a dark figure can be seen through the opaque glass.

JASON, thirty and haggard looking, enters the room. His eyes

want to sparkle at seeing his son for the first time. But

tranquilizers have dulled the effect.

Evan's eyes fixate on the leg-restraints and handcuffs that

hinder Jason's movement. Finally Jason sits.

He smiles warmly and speaks in over-enunciated tones.

INT. SUNNYVALE - VISITOR'S CHAMBER - DAY

Evan "comes to" in another unfamiliar place. Rather than

seeing his father across a table, he's looking up at a

ceiling.

Blocking his view of the ceiling is Jason, whose face is now

monstrous with rage, and whose cuffed hands are wrapped around

Evan's throat, choking the life out of him.

Suddenly, ORDERLIES tackle Jason from both sides and wedge a

baton under his jaw to wrench him away. Andrea frantically

struggles to rescue Evan from Jason's clutches.

Jason wrestles the baton from under his chin, hits an orderly

in the kneecap and comes for Evan with the baton!

Orderly #2 acts quickly, beating Jason with his baton. As

Jason makes another desperate grab for Evan, Orderly #2 is

forced to bash him in the skull. Down for the count.

Andrea hugs Evan, now in shock.

And ALARM sounds and Andrea tries to cover Evan's eyes, but

through her fingers he can see a quick blur of a pool of

blood spreading from Jason's head.

FADE IN:

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY - 1989

Dressed in black, Andrea and Evan watch Jason's casket being

lowered into the ground. Andrea's tears soak through her

veil. A few feet back, Kayleigh stands behind Evan.

Evan watches the coffin descend, disappearing from sight.

Kayleigh steps up to Evan and takes his hand. A moment. And

she softly whispers in Evan's ear.

A rumble of thunder. Evan looks up at the brooding dark

clouds.

EXT. CEMETERY - DUSK

Gray skies. Andrea drives the children home. Evan stares at

the passing tombstones that flutter by like a white picket

fence. The flickering strobe effect that intensifies into a

white blur is hypnotic.

EXT. MILLER'S HOUSE - DAY - 1995

Bright and sunny. The lawn freshly cut. A Toro lawnmower has

been carelessly left in the grass-strewn driveway.

TITLE: SIX YEARS LATER

CRANE DOWN to the window of the --

INT. MILLER'S HOUSE - BASEMENT

Evan, Kayleigh, Tommy and Lenny are now THIRTEEN. Evan exhales

cigarette smoke, taps his ash and finishes sketching a

portrait of Kayleigh in his journal.

Tommy wears a leather jacket and now has traces of peach

fuzz on his upper lip.

Kayleigh's hair is longer now, albeit stringy and unkempt.

Evan closes his journal and coolly ignites a STRIKE-ANYWHERE

MATCH with his thumb and lights Kayleigh's cigarette. Everyone

but Lenny smokes in the basement.

Tommy, now with longer hair, ransacks his father's army locker

looking for something.

Tommy absently chucks an old Playboy toward Lenny. Kayleigh

seems uncomfortable by the sight of it.

Evan claps his hands and stands up, Lenny and Kayleigh join

him. Finally, Tommy shakes an old army thermos and hears

something rattling inside.

Tommy opens the thermos, tips it over and a blockbuster (1/4

stick of dynamite) spills out. Tommy grins mischievously.

EXT. HALPERNS' FOREST - DAY

Tommy leads Evan, Kayleigh and Lenny on a mission through

the woods. Everyone smokes except Lenny, yet he's the only

one who's wheezing. He pulls out an inhaler and takes a puff.

Now at the edge of the woods, Tommy spots:

EXT. MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - CONTINUOUS

A MAILBOX sits at the end of the driveway. It's exquisite.

An exact replica of a Colonial home it serves.

Across the street, Tommy hands the blockbuster to Lenny.

All eyes turn to Evan as he takes his lit cigarette, breaks

off the filter and jams the fuse into the unlit end.

EXT. MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - CONTINUOUS

Lenny paces back and forth next to the three-story mailbox,

desperately trying to appear nonchalant. He pretends to notice

his shoe's untied and bends down to tie it. From the woods,

the other kids watch anxiously.

Finally, Lenny throws the bomb in the mailbox. Then sprints

like hell to the woods. Kayleigh shakes Lenny's inhaler and

hands it to him when he gets back.

Evan pats Lenny on the back.

The four watch the mailbox in intense anticipation. Evan

smiles with the cigarette pressed tightly between his lips

and places his hands over Kayleigh's ears. She smiles back

at him and presses his hands against her head. Tommy catches

this and seems disturbed, and quickly turns back to --

The mailbox. Tick-tock... tick-tock... It's like a staring

contest...

EXT. HALPERNS' FOREST - DAY

Evan, running full speed, comes to in an unfamiliar place.

He instantly loses his footing and falls to the ground. Lenny,

falling on top of him.

Evan gets up and starts running, then realizes he's not being

followed. Kayleigh and Tommy are helping Lenny up and carrying

him. Evan realizes that Lenny's completely dazed. Evan doubles

back, grabs Lenny's arm and he and Tommy drag Lenny through

the woods as fast as they can.

EXT. LENNY'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Andrea's car screeches to the curb of Lenny's house. Lenny's

mother, Mrs. Kagan, frantically loads Lenny into an ambulance.

As Andrea rushes up to the ambulance, Mrs. Kagan gives her

an icy glare and slams the ambulance door in Andrea's face.

Andrea turns to Evan, now trembling on the front stoop.

Evan looks helpless.

Evan shakes his head "no". Almost ashamed...

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFCIE - DAY

Evan lies on a couch.

Evan breathes slowly. Deeply. Andrea watches nervously from

the far side of the room.

Andrea suppresses the tiniest of proud smiles.

Evan's eyes suddenly roll back in his head.

Evan moans and begins shaking.

Evan moans and shakes on the couch.

Blood begins to trickle from Evan's nose as a guttural sound

is uttered from deep within him. Dr. Redfield bolts upright

in his chair and redirects the session.

Evan moans in agony. Andrea darts into the room.

Dr. Redfield waves her away and concentrates on Evan.

Andrea moves to stop the blood flowing from Evan's nose. She

lifts Evan's eyelids and sees only the whites of his eyes.

Evan is completely non-responsive.

Nothing but moans and blood. Dr. Redfield frantically opens

some desk drawers until he finds smelling salts. He breaks a

small capsule under evan's mouth, pinches his bleeding nose

closed and lets Evan inhale the vapor through his mouth.

Evan lurches forward on the couch and falls off. Holding his

bloody nose.

Evan deduces the answer from everyone's horrified faces.

EXT. MULTIPLEX THEATER - PARKING LOT - DUSK

Andrea drops off Evan, Kayleigh and Tommy outside the complex.

Kayleigh, looking morose, shuts the car door and Andrea drives

off. They walk through the parking lot.

On "mailbox", Tommy suddenly grabs Evan's jacket and SHOVES

him against a parked car. Tommy looks around to make sure

nobody heard anything.

Evan nods, scared. Tommy gives a final shove.

Tommy's right. Kayleigh clearly doesn't.

INT. MULTIPLEX THEATER LOBBY - DUSK

Kayleigh shuffles behind Evan and Tommy as they head toward

the theatre. Evan drops back.

Kayleigh says nothing as Tommy sees the theatre playing SEVEN

and whispers.

INT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Andrea does the dishes as the TV plays a NEWSCAST in the

b.g.

Andrea turns to the TV, blocking our view. We can only hear

the report as she watches intensely.

Andrea's face looks haunted by the on-screen images. She

shakes her head in terror and grabs the remote.

She clicks off the TV, trembling.

INT. MULTIPLEX THEATER - NIGHT

The movie's in progress. Evan and Kayleigh sit behind Tommy.

Some crowd members TURN around and give Tommy a SHUSH. Tommy

whips M&Ms at them.

Kayleigh, repulsed, suddenly darts from the aisle and runs

out. Evan follows.

INT. LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Evan follows her to a small alcove.

Evan shakes his head "no". She looks devastated.

She begins to cry. Evan makes sure no one's staring.

He reaches to comfort her. But she winces.

She pulls her sleeve up, revealing a large bruise.

Kayleigh pulls back her shirt collar to show an even larger,

darker bruise.

She looks into his eyes.

She searches his eyes for sincerity. And finds it. They lean

into each other for a TENDER KISS. After a moment, a ROAR

from nearby.

They jerk back to see Tommy, shocked and betrayed, staring

at them from across a small crowd. By now, some teens chuckle

at Tommy.

Tommy rushes through the small crowd at Evan. His hands in

fists. Suddenly a FOOT reaches out and trips Tommy. Tommy

falls to the floor and the crowd cackles at him.

Tommy slowly gets up, locks eyes with Evan. Hatred oozing.

Evan looks guilty, weakly shaking his head, it's not what

you're thinking.

Tommy suddenly lunges at the TEEN PUNK who must be at least

a foot taller than he is. Tommy lands a flurry of punches

before the Teen Punk can even defend himself, frequently

taking opportunities to eyeball Evan.

Evan, Kayleigh and even the punk's FRIENDS look on helplessly

when TWO SECURITY GUARDS SEIZE TOMMY. Tommy valiantly

struggles against them at first. But the moment he realizes

it's hopeless, he allows his body to go slack.

As Tommy is being dragged away, he turns to Evan, a sick

smile on his face.  Evan and Kayleigh look back, speechless.

INT. ANDREA'S CAR - NIGHT

Andrea drives through the winding roads.

CLOSE UP

Andrea's eyes. Tormented.

REVEAL she's driving Evan and Kayleigh home. Evan's up front

and Kayleigh sits behind them. Everyone silent.

Andrea stares through the rearview mirror into Kayleigh's

eyes. Probing. Searching.

Andrea watches Kayleigh. A calculated beat.

Kayleigh flinches at the question. And Andrea catches it.

Evan can't help but look back at Kayleigh. Oh my god, she

knows.

Andrea pulls the car over and stops. After a moment, Kayleigh

realizes she's at her house. She exits the car in a hurry.

Andrea stares at Evan, who keeps his eyes facing dead ahead.

She finally shifts the car into gear.

Evan says nothing.

EXT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - MORNING

A "For Sale" sign is now planted on the front lawn. Andrea,

in her nurse uniform, exits the house to her car.

INT. ANDREA'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Evan discreetly watches her leave through the window. Grabs

his coat and exits frame.

EXT. LENNY'S HOUSE - DAY

Kayleigh and Evan walk down toward the house.

As a station wagon rolls up the street, Evan and Kayleigh

duck in nearby bushes.

The station wagon finally heads into the driveway. Evan puts

on a smile and charges the car, pounding the window.

Inside the car, Lenny jerks back in horror. Mrs. Kagan looks

angry as she rolls the window down.

The smile fades from Evan's face. Kayleigh hangs back.

Evan and Kayleigh look guilty as the garage door opens up

and Mrs. Kagan continues into the garage.

INT. LENNY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Alone, Lenny concentrates on a MODEL AIRPLANE. There is a

sudden KNOCK at the window. Lenny's head jerks around to see

Evan and Kayleigh smiling through the window.

EXT. LENNY'S WINDOW - CONTINUOUS

Evan and Kayleigh stand on the ivy-covered trellis.

Lenny twitches ever-so-slightly.

Evan shakes his head "no".

Lenny looks back at the model airplane. Needs to think.

EXT. JUNKYARD WOODS - DAY

Evan, Lenny and Kayleigh pass a junk pile in the woods.

As Evan and Kayleigh absorb this in silence, they see a column

of smoke billowing in the horizon.

Evan and Kayleigh run toward the smoke. Lenny nervously

follows behind.

They exit the woods to find:

EXT. JUNKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Tommy has stuffed a dog into a gunny sack which he douses

with lighter fluid.

Next to a campfire.

Evan and Kayleigh rush toward the trapped, helpless dog.

Tommy is ready for them. He drops the lighter fluid, picks

up a wooden plank and SWINGS! Evan ducks back at the last

minute and Tommy accidentally connects with Kayleigh's head.

Knocking her unconscious.

Tommy, enraged, fakes a high swing, then goes for Evan's

knee cap. BASH! Evan doubles over in pain and falls to the

ground, clutching his knee. Tommy moves to the fire, Crockett

squirming inside the bag and picks up the lighter fluid.

Evan painfully looks up from the ground and his eyes dart

from the sight of Kayleigh, unconscious, to Crockett, trapped

in the tied gunny sack.

No response.

Tommy squeezes the bottle hard, creating a flaming fuse from

the campfire to the fluid soaked dog.

As the flames near Crockett, Evan, seething with rage, stands

up with clenched fists and CHARGES Tommy at FULL SPEED --

EXT. JUNKYARD - DAY

Evan comes to in an unfamiliar place. Still in running mode.

His body contorts spastically like a fish on land, since he

is now lying face down on the ground.

Evan regains himself and sits up painfully. His face is badly

bruised and he clutches his battered ribs.

He gets no answer from Lenny, who stands in the exact same

spot. Tommy is nowhere in sight and the sound is of Kayleigh

weeping. Evan spins to face her.

Kayleigh, her knees drawn tightly to her chest, is unable to

answer through her tears. Evan struggles to rise but he

becomes dizzy and falls back to the ground.

Evan takes a quick glance toward the gunny sack, smouldering

then moans and buries his head in his hands.

EXT. LENNY'S HOUSE - DAY

A small neighborhood CROWD has gathered to watch an ambulance

with the SUNNYVALE insignia take an entranced Lenny away.

Mrs. Kagan is about to climb in the rear when she stops and

turns to Evan.

Evan stands there, speechless.

EXT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - DAY

A packed U-HAUL sits in front of Evan's house. Andrea shifts

the small truck into gear and slowly pulls out.

Outside the truck, Kayleigh waves to Evan, tears spilling

shamelessly down her cheeks. Evan reaches behind his seat

and opens a large cardboard box. It is filled with past

journals. He finds the most recent journal, uncaps a pen and

writes something.

Finished he presses the journal to the window.

EVAN'S DIARY

"I'll come back for you."

Evan waves back to her, trying nonchalantly to wipe away his

own tears as she fades into the distance.

When Kayleigh disappears from sight, Andrea looks over to

see what he's written.

Evan returns the journal and begins writing furiously.

INT. COLLEGE CLASSROOM - DAY - 2002

TITLE: SEVEN YEARS LATER

Evan, twenty now, continues writing in a college Blue Book.

He is older, dressed down in worn jeans, T-shirt and plaid

flannel. He closes the Blue Book with a cocky grin just as

PROFESSOR CARTER, 40, calls out to the class:

Evan grabs his psychology textbook from under his seat, gets

up and turns in his exam.

Evan flashes a confident smile.

Professor Carter nods solemnly, obviously in the know.

EXT. COLLEGE - QUAD - DAY

Evan bikes past students.

EXT. COLLEGE - FRAT HOUSE - DAY

Evan bikes past some obnoxious GREEKS.

EXT. COLLEGE - EVAN'S DORM - DAY

Evan docks his bike and carries his knapsack inside.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - MOMENTS LATER

Evan's dorm is cluttered "double" whose walls are adorned

with head-shop posters of Gothic rock bands.

By Evan's bed is a bookshelf filled with books on amnesia,

memory loss, fugues, hypnotism and other related bands.

Evan's roommate, THUMPER, 19, is a completely punked out

Gothic boy who weighs 300 pounds. He currently hands a black

lacy dress to CRICKET, 17, a pierced Goth co-ed. She slips

the tattered dress on as Thumper wipes his post-coital self

off with a black tee-shirt.

Evan barges through the door, throwing his pscyh books on

the bed and politely looking away from the half-naked girl.

Evan opens the window and checks out his Psych project: a

small maze has several flatworms at one end and a bowl of

cornflakes at the other.

Cricket puts on her Doc Martens as Evan watches the worms.

As she leaves, Thumper takes the black T-shirt by his wallet

and throws it on Evan's bed.

Evan nods thanks, picks up his journal. Reads something and

smiles.

Thumper pulls out a bong.

EXT. DIRTY HANK'S BAR - DAY

INT. DIRTY HANK'S BAR - CONTINUOUS

A popular watering hole. A dark rustic interior, blasting

alternative rock.

Plenty of underage students carry pitchers of beer to their

tables.

Evan and Thumper play pool against two young women. HEIDI,

beautiful, wears ripped jeans, no make up. She sinks the

eleven ball off the rail. KRISTEN coolly smokes a cigarette,

confident that she and Heidi will hold the table.

Thumper proudly steps forward.

Thumper steps back, points to Evan.

Heidi sinks another ball and looks up at Evan strangely.

Heidi misses her shot and passes the cue to Evan.

Evan speaks as he knocks the one-ball in the corner pocket.

As he talks, at a table behind them, some obnoxious Greeks,

including HUNTER, SPENCER, and GWEN make fun of Thumper.

Gwen giggles as Spencer throws popcorn at Thumper's head.

Thumper seems oblivious to their taunts as Evan knocks the

three-ball in the side.

Evan walks past Heidi, putting his hand on her shoulder to

squeeze by. The hand lingers longer than necessary and Heidi

doesn't mind. He sinks another ball.

A handful of popcorn hits Thumper's face. They all try to

ignore Hunter and Spencer's jeers.

Another barrage of popcorn hits Thumper's jacket. Although

his hand clenches on the cue. He meekly shuffles away to the

opposite side of the pool table from the cackling Greeks.

Thumper casually takes the pool cue from Evan.

As Heidi digests this, Thumper carefully lines up his shot...

The eight ball.

CRASH!!! The cue ball intentionally jumps the table, rocketing

into the pitcher of beer on the Greek's table. They're all

soaked with beer and debris.

Just as they begin to rise, Thumper smashes the cue stick on

the table, WHISTLING innocently (while now brandishing a

spear). They sit the fuck down.

Kristin, impressed, casually wraps her arm around Thumper's

waist. He smiles coolly, it's nothing.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

Evan and Heidi, making out, burst through the door and fall

on the bed. Evan's shirt is unbuttoned and Heidi strokes his

chest. Suddenly Heidi stops and sniffs the air.

Evan drunkenly crosses the room, grabs two beers from the

mini-fridge.

Heidi takes one. Looks under the bed.

Evan chugs his beer and sits next to her on the bed and puts

his arm around her. Very drunk.

Heidi teasingly runs her fingers over his smooth torso.

Evan stops short.

Heidi hands him a book marked "AGE 13". He flips it open to

a random place and takes the beer from her hand.

Evan takes and finishes her beer and begins reading. As he

reads, he seems more and more on the verge of passing out.

Color drains from Evan's face as he realizes what he's

reading. He looks over at Heidi, who kisses him.

As Evan reads, the world seems to ALMOST IMPERCEPTIBLY VIBRATE

around him LIKE A TUNING FORK. His voice becomes distant and

SOUNDS ECHO around him like distant memories resurrecting

themselves...

FLASH!

EXT. JUNKYARD - DAY - 1995

Evan is THIRTEEN again. The scene begins exactly where Evan's

blackout occurred as a child. Tommy has just knocked Kayleigh

unconscious with a wooden plank, Lenny is frozen at the sight

of Crockett in the fluid-soaked gunny sack. And Evan, seething

with rage, stands up with clenched fists and CHARGES Tommy

at full speed.

Evan looks around, utterly confused by his surroundings.

Before an answer comes, Tommy smiles at his good fortune and

swings the plank, hitting Evan's head. Evan is sent sprawling

backwards, his forehead bleeding freely.

Tommy knocks Evan hard in the ribs with his boots. Evan

writhes in agony, his face against the ground. Lenny moves

toward the gunny sack, lifts it and tugs desperately on the

rope that traps Crockett inside.

Tommy spins around and flashes an evil smile.

As if on cue, Lenny does exactly as he's told. His eyes begin

to glaze over.

Evan, beaten and bloody, reaches out with his last bit of

strength, grabs Tommy's foot and holds on.

Lenny remains frozen in place. Tommy yanks his leg back,

breaking Evan's grip.

Evan groans on the ground in a writhing heap.

Tommy's voice hitches. His eyes water from pent up

frustration.

Tommy smiles viciously at Lenny, traumatized to watch Tommy

pick up the lighter fluid and spray a liquid fuse from the

campfire to the soaked gunny sack.

WHOOSH OF FLAMES

And Evan passes out.

FLASH!

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002

Evan comes to with Heidi slapping him awake.

Heidi rolls her eyes.

She stands and angrily puts on her jacket.

Evan doesn't even hear her. After getting his bearings, he

grabs his jacket and exits, leaving her dumbfounded.

INT. EVAN'S CAR - SUNRISE

Evan drives...

EXT. LENNY'S HOUSE - DAY

Evan, exhausted, finally pulls into Lenny's driveway. Very

little has changed in the past seven years.

INT. LENNY'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

ANGLE ON LENNY

Now 20, making a model airplane. He's still overweight and

looks like his mother dresses him.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

The room is filled with model airplanes. Hundreds of them.

A KNOCK on Lenny's bedroom door. Mrs. Kagan, grayer, fatter,

opens the door and escorts Evan inside. She glares at Evan

while pretending to be cheerful.

Lenny looks up to see Evan, his jaw drops.

ANGLE ON EVAN

Looking around, shocked to see:

PAN ALL THE WAY AROUND THE ROOM.

Nothing has changed in the past seven years.

The same kids' toys, posters and comic books.

AS WE PAN ALL THE WAY AROUND TO LENNY

We see he's working on the model again, in his own world.

The window of opportunity for conversation has closed.

Silence. Lenny frowns.

Nothing.

No response. Evan picks up a model airplane from the desk.

Evan, startled, drops the model on the desk. An epiphany.

Lenny stares out the window.

With lightning speed, Lenny jumps from his desk and

unexpectedly shoves EVAN IN TO THE WALL. Squadrons of hanging

planes crash to the floor. Lenny digs his fingers into Evan's

shoulder.

Evan is terrified. Then Lenny suddenly moves back and begins

working on the model again, his eyes a million miles away.

Evan is speechless.

The door bursts open. Mrs. Kagan looks at the smashed model

airplanes by Evan's feet. Evan ignores her accusing stare.

When Lenny doesn't respond, Mrs. Kagan hustles Evan back

into the hallway.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

Evan pulls a dozen journals from beneath his bed and begins

pouring over them.

Nearby, Thumper empties a can of hairspray into his Mohawk.

He finds something he's looking for, marks the page with a

yellow post-it note marked, BLACKOUT and sets the book in a

separate pile.

As he sets the next journal on the bed, it automatically

opens up to a place where the spine was bent. Staring up at

him is the message:

EVAN'S DIARY

"I will come back for you."

Evan looks overcome by guilt.

Later that evening:

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

Evan has now organized a pile of five journals. He selects

an entry, begins reading and suddenly closes the journal.

Fear covers his face. He holds one of his hands up and isn't

surprised to see it trembling.

He opens his journal again and reads out loud.

His own words grow reverberant, distant. Furthermore, the

walls behind him vibrate, slightly worse than before.

FLASH!

EXT. MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - DAY - 1995

Evan, Kayleigh, Lenny and Tommy, all thirteen, watch the

mailbox across the street with intense anticipation.

When Evan comes to in this memory, the lit cigarette absently

drops from his mouth and nestles into the folds of his shirt,

SMOLDERING.

The mailbox... tick-tock, tick-tock... Like a staring contest.

Suddenly a car appears from down the street and slowly pulls

into the driveway.

MRS. HALPERN, 24, an attractive young mother, gets out of

the car and walks to the mailbox.

Across the street, Tommy digs his fingers into the nerves of

Lenny's shoulder.

Tommy's words make Evan flinch. From inside the car, a BABY

begins to cry. Mrs. Halpern walks back to the car.

Evan looks on in horror and suddenly clenches his teeth in

pain and silently swipes the front of his shirt, sending the

lit cigarette to the ground. He pulls up his shirt revealing

a fresh BURN MARK on his stomach.

Mrs. Halpern picks her up and carries her to the house. As

the mother unlocks the front door to the house, the kids

break into wide smiles of relief. But wait...

The mother remembers the mail and carries the baby back to

the mailbox. Now Tommy is the only one left still smiling.

The baby fumbles with the mailbox's door handle for a moment --

ANGLE ON KIDS' FACES

BOOM!!!

The blast is deafening. Evan, Kayleigh and Lenny watch the

results in stunned horror.

Evan and Kayleigh slowly back away in shock and begin to run

a few steps when they realize that Lenny isn't with them.

Lenny doesn't seem to hear, his eyes fixated on the crimson

road. Evan and Tommy double back and grab him. They try to

make him break out into a run, but Lenny's feet drag limply

against the ground. Both Tommy and Evan grab an arm and begin

to run with Lenny through the woods.

FLASH!

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

Evan comes to. Lurches his body over the bed and vomits.

Sounds of squeaky bed springs fill the room. Looking sick

and pale, he lifts his shirt to see a NEW SCAR from the

cigarette burn.

In the next bed, Thumper's head, wrapped in a blanket, pops

up from above a NAKED GESELA'S waist.

Evan sits upright in bed and begins writing in the margins

of the journal.

INT. DORM LOBBY - DAY

The lobby is decorated with colorful streamers, balloons,

posters and banners announcing PARENTS' WEEKEND.

Carefree STUDENTS and their parents carry shopping bags toward

the bustling elevators. Evan leans against the side of a pay

phone, holding his ear to drawn out the noise.

She's obviously hung up on him. Suddenly, a HAND grabs his

shoulder. It's PROFESSOR CARTER.

Evan shrugs and forces a smile.

Carter waves to another student and her parents and walks

away.

INT. FANCY RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A waiter clears the dishes away from Evan and Andrea's table.

REVEAL ANDREA

Her hair now has gray streaks. As she signs for the bill,

she leans over and kisses Evan on the cheek.

Andrea's smile fades.

Evan tries not to react.

Andrea shakes her head.

Evan nods, but something gnaws beneath the surface.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

Evan hastily hunts through his journals, tearing up the room

looking for a certain book. Thumper, lying on his bed, quietly

watches Evan with growing concern.

Thumper jumps off the bed and snatches the journal away.

Thumper begins scanning the journal entry. A bitter laugh.

He hands the journal back to Evan. Evan opens it and begins

reading it silently.

His hands begin to tremble and he slams the book shut in

defeat.

INT. EVAN'S CAR - COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

Evan, looking haggard and frail, wipes the greasy hair from

his eyes and punches the accelerator. His teeth are clenched

and he hammers his fist on the dashboard.

EXT. RIDGEWOOD DINER - EVENING

Evan pulls into a parking lot of a country diner. He eyes a

piece of paper with an address scrawled on it and gets out.

INT. RIDGEWOOD DINER - CONTINUOUS

A run-down greasy spoon. Filled with a number of TOWNIES and

TRUCKERS. The place is stale with cigarette smoke and appears

decorated in grime motif.

Evan is about to enter when he spots Kayleigh coming out of

the kitchen with a tray full of food.

Kayleigh, now twenty, looks pale and sickly thin. She bangs

her hip on the swinging door and an order of food crashes to

the floor. Her BOSS stares back in aggravation.

Kayleigh's face turns beet red as she bends down to clean up

the order. She is humiliated and Evan leans back against a

pay phone so that she can't see him watching her.

As she brings the mess inside the kitchen, a CUSTOMER pinches

her ass. Evan closely studies her reaction to the offense.

She flinches uncomfortably but then composes a smile for the

customer. Evan backs out uncomfortably.

EXT. RIDGEWOOD DINER - NIGHT

Kayleigh struggles with the zipper of a shabby coat as she

exits. Evan steps out of the shadows. She's startled at first,

but eventually recognizes him. A smile flickers across her

face and she allows herself to be hugged.

Kayleigh nods and they walk down the street. She reaches

into her pocket, pulls out a pack of smokes.

Evan nods and scrutinizes her face with his next question.

Her face is betrayed by a slight tick.

They walk in silence for a moment.

Kayleigh stops walking and crushes her cigarette.

Evan's features shift from inquisitory to tenderness. He

steps closer to Kayleigh and softly strokes her face. She

flinches at first, but remains in the same spot.

Kayleigh begins to tremble. Tears flow.

She moves her face away from his hand.

Her face collapses and she turns away.

Kayleigh runs, stops and turns back to Evan.

She turns and runs away. Evan looks sick with guilt.

EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - QUAD - DAY - 2002

A few GREEKS play frisbee and talk trash. Evan, tired and

depressed, sits on the lawn nearby, fingering the new burn

scar on his belly. Contemplating...

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

Evan enters his dorm. He ignores Thumper, who sits on Evan's

bed sucking furiously from a gurgling bong. He chokes out a

message.

Evan puts a towel under the door.

Evan hits "play" on the answering machine.

BEEP. Thumper offers Evan a magnified frown of disapproval.

Thumper coughs accidentally, tips the bong over on Evan's

bed. Reacting quickly, he grabs a towel from under the door

and wipes off Evan's comforter.

BEEP. Evan stares dumbstruck at the machine.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Evan, dressed in black, gets out of his car at the edge of

the cemetery. A small cluster of friends and family gather

at the grave. Evan grabs a bouquet of roses and begins walking

to the grave. When he suddenly spots Mr. Miller and Tommy.

Evan's hands tense up into fists. He becomes weak in the

knees and stops walking. After an uncomfortable moment of

standing still, he retreats to his car and watches the

ceremony from the driver's seat.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

The last of the mourners are filing away. Evan exits his car

and walks to the deserted grave. He drops the roses on the

casket and turns to make sure nobody is watching.

Evan reaches into his pocket and pulls out a sheet of paper.

He unfolds it and leaves it on her gravesite:

EVAN'S DIARY

"I'll come back for you."

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

He makes a weighty decision and gets up. He hastily hunts

through his journals, looking for a certain book.

Evan opens his journal marked "Age 7". He plops on his bed

and starts writing sideways in the margins.

He turns the page and begins reading the journal. As he mouths

the entry to himself, the resonance of an older man's voice

seems to REVERBERATE throughout the room and the WORLD behind

his head FAINTLY VIBRATES.

FLASH!

INT. MILLER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY - 1989

Mr. Miller plays with his camera and the kids are excited

about playing Robin Hood in a movie.

Evan slowly nods and begins to strip out of his clothes. Mr.

Miller takes a quick peek at him.

INT. MILLER'S BASEMENT - DAY - 1989

Mr. Miller puts the camera on a tripod in the basement.

Kayleigh and Evan sit on folding chairs in front of the

camera. Tommy stands at the top of the basement stairs,

looking down.

Tommy sulks and closes the door. Mr. Miller lowers his voice

and speaks to Evan and Kayleigh.

Kayleigh giggles and covers her mouth with her hand. Evan

looks skeptical.

Kayleigh stops giggling. Evan says nothing.

Mr. Miller gets behind the lens. The room is dead silent.

ANGLE ON TOMMY

Who silently opens the door at the top of the basement stairs

and watches with horror.

Evan's face is flushed with rage. He walks behind Kayleigh

and cups his hands tightly around her ears. She can't hear

anything now.

The mature speech seems completely surreal coming from a

seven-year old. Mr. Miller looks around the room as if he's

the butt of some sick joke.

Evan impatiently waves the question.

The impact of the last sentence isn't lost on Mr. Miller.

Evan leans over to whisper in Kayleigh's ear. Kayleigh stares

at the floor, then looks up at her father and shivers.

Kayleigh looks into Evan's eyes for support. Evan nods go

on. His confidence brings a boldness to her lips.

Kayleigh summons her own new courage.

As he leaves to pick up her clothes, Evan grins.

Hiding at the top of the basement stairs, Tommy recoils in

horror and picks up one of his sister's dolls and begins

twisting the head back and forth...

FLASH!

INT. SORORITY BEDROOM - MORNING - 2002

A broad smile lines Evan's face as he slowly wakes up from

his slumber. He suddenly grabs his head as if suffering from

a pounding migraine.

MONTAGE OF SWIRLING MEMORIES

Quick cuts and flashes of Evan and Kayleigh growing older --

she seems more carefree now, full of life and less self-

conscious.

EXT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - DAY - 1989

Evan pulls Kayleigh around in a little red wagon.

INT. FAMILY RESTAURANT - DAY - 1989

Evan and Kayleigh play in a tub of balls in the playroom.

EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY - 1989

Kayleigh pushes Evan on a tire swing.

INT. MULTIPLEX THEATER - NIGHT - 1995

Tommy, glaring at Evan, thrashes the Teen Punk.

EXT. JUNKYARD - DAY - 1995

Burning sack in flames.

EXT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - STREET - 1995

QUICK FLASH of the U-Haul driving away.

EXT. BUS STATION - DAY - 1995

At thirteen, Kayleigh spunkily hops off a GREYHOUND BUS and

runs into Evan's arms.

EXT. ANDREA'S NEW HOUSE - DAY - 1995

Still thirteen, Evan peddles his bike by his new house,

Kayleigh riding on the handlebars.

More memory flashes of Evan and Kayleigh throughout the teen

years, they grow up as lovers now:

EXT. LAKE - DAY - 1997

Evan and Kayleigh have romantic picnic on a rowboat.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FIELD - SUNRISE - 2002

Evan and Kayleigh watch the sunrise after senior prom.

INT. SORORITY BEDROOM - MORNING - 2002

Finally the memory assault is over. Evan groans in pain as

blood trickles from his nose.

An arm reaches over and touches his shoulder.

Evan whips around to see Kayleigh watching him. Not only is

Kayleigh alive, but she's a ravishing beauty. Evan lurches

back from the shock of seeing Kayleigh and falls to the floor.

She sees Evan's nose bleed and her eyes go wide.

Evan, still stunned, can do little but stare from the floor.

He stands in the middle of her bedroom, surrounded by sorority

plaques and pink preppy decor.

Evan, hardly able to take his eyes off her as she hands him

a tissue. He reaches for his clothes at the foot of the bed

and comes up with a Greek-lettered fraternity sweatshirt and

brown suede jacket.

Evan frowns with distaste, grabs a towel and heads out.

WE FOLLOW HIM INTO:

INT. SORORITY BATHROOM - MORNING

At the sink, Evan washes the blood off his face and looks at

his reflection in the mirror. A nearby shower SHUTS OFF.

Evan turns around and sees Gwen, one of the sorority brats

from the bar, exit the shower naked.

Evan blushes and turns back to the mirror through which Gwen

dries herself with a towel while staring flirtatiously back

at Evan.

Evan holds his temple in pain as another memory comes to

him.

She pats his ass and exits the bathroom.

EXT. COLLEGE - QUAD - DAY - 2002

Kayleigh, wearing a long skirt and tight red sweater, catches

the eye of every guy on campus. She and Evan stroll arm in

arm through the quad.

Somehow, the world seems brighter now. Even the colors seem

more vibrant when compared to the somewhat grimmer world

we've known.

MANY STUDENTS wave to Evan and call his name. He can't

remember all their names but it's kinda cool being the BMOC.

Evan takes a long look at her and becomes curious.

Kayleigh playfully sweeps her leg around to kick him on the

ass, then smiles as if a ghost must have done it.

Kayleigh gives him a big unexpected kiss and walks away.

After a moment of wow, Evan runs off to class himself.

INT. DORM LOBBY - DAY

Evan inserts his last quarter into the lobby pay phone and

dials a telephone number.

Evan hangs up the phone, then checks his watch. No, wrist.

At that moment, Thumper passes Evan in the lobby.

Thumper eyes this strange preppy kid with distaste.

Thumper walks away, leaving Evan dumbfounded.

INT. COLLEGE CLASSROOM - DAY

Evan runs into the lecture hall and gets in line behind other

STUDENTS who are taking No. 2 pencils from a box on Professor

Carter's desk.

Evan hears PEOPLE he cannot see calling his name. Somehow,

it's more creepy than cool. The Professor makes a loud

announcement.

Evan walks up the aisle and takes a seat. As he sits down,

someone puts his ARM menacingly around Evan's throat.

Evan flinches, turns around and sees Hunter, the frat guy

Thumper assaulted the other night at Dirty Hank's bar.

Hunter bursts out laughing.

Hunter surreptitiously hands Evan a cheat-sheet to the exam.

Evan's face brightens.

Evan nods and smiles as exams are passed down his row.

INT. SORORITY BEDROOM - NIGHT

Evan and Kayleigh have just finished having sex. She seems

incredibly satisfied, but he looks slightly uncomfortable.

She giggles and snuggles into him. He's grateful for her

affection, but still looks uneasy. The PHONE RINGS and he

automatically answers it.

Silence on the other end. More silence.

As Evan hangs up, he and Kayleigh share a giggle and he

resumes snuggle position.

Evan smiles to himself. And hugs her tighter.

For the first time she looks at him with concern.

He's in heaven, but plays it cool.

EXT. FRAT HOUSE - FRONT LAWN - DAY

The pledges of Theta Chi busily gather around Evan, their

clothes covered in dirt, food and what might be vomit.

Evan, now dressed like his usual self, bangs a wooden spoon

on a metal salad bowl that a poor THETA CHI PLEDGE wears as

a hat.

A buzz of excitement runs through the pledges.

INT. FRAT HOUSE - ATTIC HALL - NIGHT

It's peaceful now. Evan covers Kayleigh's eyes with his hands

as he leads her through the attic hallways. Both are dressed

to the nines.

EXT. FRAT HOUSE - ROOF - CONTINUOUS

The wooden door to the rooftop swings open, revealing Kayleigh

and Evan. Kayleigh is dazzled by what she sees:

The entire roof is decorated with fairy-lights, Chinese

lanterns and hundreds upon hundreds of candles. And elegant

romantic table for two awaits them, flanked by twelve FORMALLY

DRESSED SERVANTS (previously seen pledges) who respectfully

stare ahead with the utmost class.

Two pledges immediately pull out two chairs and stand by.

Kayleigh applauds and laughs with delight.

As she takes a step toward the table -- FLOWER PETALS shower

down on her. She looks up to see TWO MORE PLEDGES standing

on ladders, delicately tossing pedals.

Kayleigh looks overwhelmed as she sits down.

Her hand reaches out to his and grabs it fiercely. Her eyes

tell him she feels the same way. A magical moment.

And they lean into each other for a kiss so enchanted it

might as well be their first ever --

Hunter bolts up the stairs, two at a time.

The moment's gone. Evan and Kayleigh exchange worried looks.

EXT. FRAT HOUSE - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

Evan runs down the front lawn to his car, the Honda parked

at the bottom of the hill. His face collapses.

Evan's car has been trashed and is surrounded by broken glass.

The seats and tires have been slashed, the hood has been

mysteriously yanked off and the steering wheel sits on the

roof.

The most unnerving thing, however, is a SPIKED LEATHER DOG

COLLAR hangs off the rearview mirror.

By now a crowd has gathered. Evan runs up to people.

No one will answer with anything more than a shrug.

But Kayleigh knows better. She stares at the collar.

A SENIOR BROTHER angrily calls him from the lawn.

Kayleigh shudders and Evan puts his arms around her.

INT. FRAT HOUSE - EVAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Evan leads Kayleigh into his bedroom and shuts the door.

Evan can't help but look under the bed. No one. He then locks

the door, reaches into his desk and finds a tiny canister of

Pepper Spray.

Evan sits in silence for a moment, contemplating this.

Kayleigh's eyes plead for him to have compassion.

EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - NIGHT

Kayleigh and Evan walk through the all-but-deserted campus.

Evan seems especially paranoid. In the distance, some guy

vomits loudly.

The guy along the path gags loudly into the bushes. Kayleigh

and Evan instinctively avert their eyes. Suddenly, Kayleigh's

ears perk and she stops walking mid-stride.

The guy, wearing Evan's brown suede jacket, suddenly springs

to his feet, revealing his face for the first time.

Tommy has grown in the last seven years. He has long, greasy

hair and some tattoos. He holds a TIRE THUMPER (a short,

steel bat for truckers) menacingly in his right hand.

Evan stands frozen in fear, his hands rooted in his coat

pockets.

Tommy takes a few practice swings with the tire thumper.

Tommy rushes Evan and bashes him with the tire thumper in

the shoulder and ribs.

Evan goes down. As Tommy prepares to bash his brains in,

Evan whips out the Pepper Spray and nails Tommy in the face.

Tommy reels back in pain, covering his eyes with this free

hand. Evan struggles to his feet and circles around Tommy,

keeping a distance as he douses Tommy with Pepper Spray.

Kayleigh screams. Tommy blindly stumbles around, madly

swinging the tire thumper. Evan charges forward in an

uncontrollable rage, rips the weapon out of Tommy's hands

and sprays a lethal dose of pepper spray into Tommy's open

mouth.

Evan knocks Tommy down with the tire thumper. Kayleigh screams

and tries to hold Evan back, but he easily wrestles free of

her. She runs to a blue streetlight on the quad.

Evan kicks Tommy hard in the ribs. Kayleigh pushes a button

on the "Blue Light" lamp post and an ALARM WAILS.

Evan raises the tire thumper for a final attack and swings

down OFF CAMERA.

CRUNCH!

Evan sees what he's done and drops the weapon, horrified.

Kayleigh sees what Evan's done to her brother. And stops

cold when she sees the damage to Tommy.

Evan rushes toward her and she stumbles backwards, still

terrified by his rage, and skitters away from him in a

crablike fashion.

SIRENS come racing to the quad. Evan looks away from Tommy's

limp body.

Collapses to the ground and begins to weep.

EXT. MAVIS PENITENTIARY - DAY

A SECURITY VEHICLE pulls through the ominous metal gates of

the large state prison. The vehicle stops and Evan, along

with nine other convicts, exit in leg and hand restraints.

INT. MAVIS PENITENTIARY - DAY

Evan, now wearing his standard issue inmate uniform, enters

the General Population area of the prison. PRISONERS begin

screaming vicious taunts and catcalls at the fresh batch of

new inmates. Evan tries to keep composed and walks toward

his cell. Evan looks up to see one of the men leaning over

the second tier, KARL, a huge muscular con with tattoos of

swastikas and other Nazi symbols on his arm, blows a kiss at

Evan and winks.

INT. EVAN'S CELL - DAY

Evan enters a dimly lit cell plastered with pictures of Jesus

Christ and various Saints. Burning flames on open cans of

shoe polish serve as candles to the large shrine.

There is a stained bare mattress on the top bunk. Sitting on

the bottom bunk is CARLOS, 30s, a massive Hispanic convict

covered with faded Indian ink jail tats of Christ in agony.

Carlos stares at Evan disinterestedly as Evan makes up his

bed on the top bunk.

Evan nods glumly.

A BUZZER SOUNDS. Carlos leaves the cell without another word.

INT. PRISON CAFETERIA - EVENING

Evan sets his tray down at a table filled with Carlos and

some other INMATES. No sooner has he sat down to eat, do

eager forks reach onto his tray and steal his food. Carlos

shrugs at Evan and offers him a roll.

INT. MAVIS VISITING CHAMBER - DAY

Andrea sits across from Evan in the visitor's chamber. Her

hair is now bottle-blonde. Four inches of Plexiglas separate

the two and they talk on monitored phones. Andrea, frazzled,

twirls an unlit cigarette.

Andrea's look tells him to look for hope elsewhere.

Andrea nods, holding up two comp books. "AGE 7" and "AGE

13".

Evan looks as if he's about to disagree with her, but he

closes his mouth and placates her.

And officer signals Evan and points to his watch.

They look at each other and Evan slowly lowers the phone. He

hangs up, Andrea still pressing her phone to her ear.

INT. MAVIS PENITENTIARY - DAY

Evan walks closely behind Carlos through a corridor, clutching

his journals. As he passes Karl, the Neo-Nazi, Karl reaches

over and firmly grabs Evan's crotch.

Evan, totally violated, turns white with rage.

Evan stands there, stunned, unable to react when --

Another Neo-Nazi, RICK, swats Evan's journals out of his

hands and onto the floor. Life springs back into Evan as he

rushes for the journals. He and Rick grab the journals at

the same time. A minor tug of war.

Rick tears them away, Evan coming up with only a few torn

pages. Evan sees the damage and goes mental.

Evan swings at Rick and misses. INMATES CHEER! It's on! Rick

lunges for Evan, a brief and painful scuffle ensues, the

journals getting trampled. Suddenly -- The sounds of COCKED

RIFLES echo through the air. The fight stops instantly as

Rick and Evan look up to see --

ANGLE ON

OFFICER STATION. Officers aim rifles at the pair. From an

upper tier, even more officers with more rifles.

Their barrels sight directly at Evan. Rick steps away, quick

to maliciously scoop up Evan's torn journals.

Evan catches his breath, then looks at the remaining few

pages on the floor.

INT. EVAN'S CELL - DAY

Evan enters the cell with a few entry pages. He looks through

them. Nothing there.

Evan nods depressed, then sees the page from his "Age 7"

journal, grabs Carlos' duct tape and tapes the page over his

bed.

INT. PRISON CORRIDOR - DAY

Evan, walking toward some White Supremacists, flinches

whenever the occasional INMATE brushes against him. Evan is

completely paranoid, waiting for an inevitable attack. Karl

makes himself visible among them, holding a journal. He reads:

The other Supremacists start laughing and calling "looney"

and "nut job." Evan rushes past them and they make chicken

clucks at him.

EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

Evan and Carlos sit on BLEACHERS that overlook the other

prisoners working out.

Evan closely watches Karl and Rick who stare daggers at him

from across the yard. A SKINHEAD PASSES SOMETHING with a

white-taped handle to Karl but no officers seem to notice.

Evan slides closer to Carlos and stares at the Jesus Christ

tattoos all over Carlos' back.

Carlos scoffs whatever.

Carlos is suddenly interested.

INT. EVAN'S CELL - LATER

Evan holds a tattered journal entry in his hand and finishes

up a conversation.

Carlos looks dumbfounded.

Their conversation stops when a convict rolls a mail cart

by, Evan looking up expectantly.

Disappointed, Evan turns back to Carlos. Holds up his journal

entry.

Evan studies the page.

JOURNAL ENTRY

"On Wednesday I got in trouble for a drawing that I didn't

do. Mommy wont let me see it."

Then as he starts reading it to himself, the bars behind him

almost imperceptibly VIBRATE --

INT. FIRST GRADE CLASSROOM - DAY - 1989

Evan, seven, COMES TO in an old familiar place. WE are back

in Mrs. Boswell's first grade class. All of the children

draw colorful pictures. Evan sees some paper spindles sitting

on Mrs. Boswell's desk. As he heads over to them, Mrs. Boswell

firmly grabs his shoulders and steers him back to his own

desk.

Evan, defeated, looks over at his blank piece of paper. He

smiles mischievously, and grabs some colored pencils.

Soon enough, an image emerges: Evan holding a knife, stands

over a heap of several dead inmates Karl and Rick.

When done, he sneaks over to Mrs. Boswell's desk, where the

two paper spindles sit. The metal needles reach up and skewer

a number of paper notes and messages.

Evan looks over to see Mrs. Boswell holding up his drawing,

horrified.

She looks over in time to see Evan using all of his seven-

year old strength to WHIP his hands down toward the spindles!

The moment before his palms reach them there's a brief instant

where SOUNDSCAPES COLLIDE and the world behind him VIBRATES.

INT. EVAN'S PRISON CELL - DAY - 2002

Evan comes to as ECHOES OF SCREAMING CHILDREN FADE. Alertness

slowly creeps back up on him as he hears:

Evan looks up to see Carlos staring at him with reverence.

Evan looks to see two scars in the center of each palm.

Carlos simply stares at him, awestruck, and hands over a box

of cigarettes.

INT. KARL'S CELL - CONTINUOUS

Evan nervously approaches. A CREW of Aryans block his path.

The Aryans laugh, make discrete eye contact with Karl, who

grins and signals to let Evan pass.

INT. KARL'S CELL - CONTINUOUS

Karl and Rick wait expectantly as Evan nervously enters.

They say nothing, relishing the fearful silence.

They continue to stare.

Karl and Rick exchange looks.

Rick stands. All muscle.

Evan nods reluctantly and peacefully drops to his knees.

Karl and Rick lower their pants to their ankles. Evan looks

miserable, about to do the deed when -- CARLOS bulldozes

past the Aryans into the room, slamming Karl into the wall

and jamming a shank into Karl's crotch!

Rick instantly charges Carlos, but trips on the pants around

his ankles. Evan, anticipating Rick's fall, stomps Rick's

face before snatching his journals from Karl's shelf.

Evan frantically flips through them, hunting for something,

as the other WHITE SUPREMACISTS charge the cell.

Carlos drops Karl's writhing body to the floor and presses

his girth against the cell door.

Evan locates an entry and concentrates on the words just as

the other supremacists force the door open -- Evan focuses

on the words. Chanting quickly.

WORDS from the entry begin to SHIMMER. REVERBERANT SOUNDS OF

BARKING break the sound barrier and the image of Aryans

storming the cell behind him become a FRENETIC BLUR

EXT. JUNKYARD WOODS - DAY - 1995

Evan, thirteen again, comes to in the woods. Evan stumbles

at first, then rights himself. He seems strangely exhilarated.

A sinister victory smile.

Kayleigh and Lenny, walking by his side, do a double take.

Evan shrugs "just kidding" and looks around, getting his

bearings. He whips his hand out and stops them.

He suddenly notices Kayleigh who now no longer looks an

awkward and unkempt tomboy, but rather a vibrant and feminine

young girl. Whereas her clothes were loose and unflattering

before, she is now radiant and wears fashionable styles.

Evan remembers his mission and darts over to a JUNK PILE.

Kayleigh and Lenny stare at him, concerned for his sanity.

Evan roots through the trash until he finds something: a

razor sharp piece of metal about two feet long. Evan offers

it to Lenny.

Evan places the metal shard in Lenny's hand.

Lenny slowly follows Evan as he bolts away.

EXT. JUNKYARD - LATER

Evan groans on the ground, writhing. Tommy's voice hitches,

eyes watering from pent up frustration.

Evan's words hit home and Tommy's anger slowly dissipates. A

look of understanding passes between them. Gratitude, even.

Tommy looks at the sack and begins to untie it. Lenny comes

screaming from nowhere like a bat out of hell! With all of

the force he can muster, he jams the metal shard all the way

through Tommy's throat!

Tommy clutches his throat, gagging in blood. Evan surveys

the scene in shock:

Lenny drops to the floor, Indian style, wipes the dirt in

his hands and freezes up completely. Kayleigh wakes up and

SCREAMS when she sees blood spurt from Tommy's throat.

Meanwhile, Crockett escapes from the sack.

EVAN'S POV

Lenny, silhouetted by the sky, seems to vibrate violently as

if operating a jack-hammer.

FLASH!

INT. COLLEGE - EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002

Evan comes to in a familiar place. His original college dorm -

ONLY BACKWARDS.

He sits upright in bed and takes in his surroundings. When

suddenly, Evan clutches his head in severe pain.

A MONTAGE OF IMAGES ASSAULT HIM:

INT. SORORITY BEDROOM - DAY

Color memories of Kayleigh's sorority fade to BLACK and WHITE

and dissipate.

EXT. FRAT HOUSE - NIGHT - 2002

Memories of Evan's vandalized car fade to BLACK and WHITE

and dissipate.

INT. PENITENTIARY - DAY - 2002

The faces of Karl and Rick all turn grainy...

INT. COLLEGE - EVAN'S DORM - DAY - 2002

As new images of THUMPER become more BRILLIANT.

INT. SUNNYVALE - PADDED ROOM - DAY - 2005

A new image overwhelms the others: Lenny, 13, with dark,

soulless eyes wearing a straight-jacket in a padded room.

BACK TO EVAN:

INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY - 2002

Evan's eyes roll back in his head. He shakes uncontrollably

and blood pours from his nose.

Thumper opens the door, sees Evan convulsing and jumps back

in horror. He scans the hallways for assistance.

INT. SUNNYVALE LABORATORY - DAY

Evan lies on an examining table undergoing another series of

CAT-scans. The machines are now state of the art and the lab

room has been redecorated.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - DAY

Andrea nervously chews her fingernails as she watches Dr.

Redfield post CAT-scan results on the light box. A young

nurse pushes Evan, in a wheelchair, into the doctor's office.

Dr. Redfield and Andrea exchange looks.

Dr. Redfield points to the CAT-scan slides, specifically, to

the outer lining of Evan's brain.

Dr. Redfield stares ahead. Transfixed by the slides.

Andrea stares at him blankly. Evan impatiently "pops wheelies"

in the wheel chair.

Dr. Redfield nods, awed by Evan's effortless interpretation.

Evan springs out of the wheelchair and stretches his legs.

Andrea nods. Evan shakes Dr. Redfield's hand.

Andrea shoots Dr. Redfield an apologetic look. Evan heads

out the door, accidentally knocking Dr. Redfield's jacket to

the floor. He shrugs apologetically and re-hangs it.

INT. SUNNYVALE CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Outside the office, Evan inspects Dr. Redfield's KEYS and

attached SECURITY CARD and smiles. Evan covertly winds himself

through the maze of corridors, careful not to be seen by the

staff.

He finally sees a wing marked "CRIMINALLY INSANE". Evan looks

around to make certain he's not being watched, then uses the

security card to open the door. He looks in every room of

the wing until he finds --

INT. SUNNYVALE - LENNY'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Evan unlocks the door and is moved by what he sees.

Lenny is strapped onto a metal bed, his arms and legs in

tight leather restraints. The dark five o'clock shadow and

his malicious grin radiate evil.

His black and haunting eyes personify hate and murderous

intent.

Lenny seems neither surprised or happy to see Evan. That is,

if he's aware of Evan's presence at all...

Nothing from Lenny.

Still nothing. Not even a glance in his direction. Evan sighs

and gives up.

Evan turns around to leave.

Lenny's eyes seethe with hate.

Evan backs away, face guilt-stricken.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY

Evan enters his dormroom (where everything's backwards),

reaches under his bed and is relieved to find the journal

marked "AGE 7".

EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - DAY

Evan is ignored by several Theta Chi pledges as he plops

himself by a tree and hunts through his journal to find the

entry from when he was seven and visited Jason at Sunnyvale.

JOURNAL ENTRY

"Today I get to mete my father. His name is Jason and he is

crazy. I hope he lets me call him dad."

Evan takes a calming breath and begins reading.

Evan gets some strange looks, but continues. As he does, the

trees and frisbee-playing students behind him VIBRATE and

SHUDDER.

INT. SUNNYVALE VISITOR'S CHAMBER - DAY - 1989

Seven-year old Evan comes to during the time he first met

his father, Jason.

Jason waits patiently for young Evan to finish his sentence.

Jason is completely thrown.

Jason seems extremely upset to hear Evan say this.

Jason launches himself across the table, shackles and all,

and grabs hold of Evan's throat.

EVAN'S POV

As Jason looks down at us, frothing at the mouth, there's a

trick of the light where Jason's head seems to VIBRATE against

the ceiling.

FLASH!

EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - DAY - 2002

Evan's hands instinctively reach for his throat, then he

realizes his surroundings. Heartbroken, he shuts the journal

and stands up shakily.

INT. RIDGEWOOD DINER - EARLY EVENING

Evan eats in the same diner where Kayleigh used to work. As

he eats, his arm sits in front of his plate, protectively.

Guarding his food.

EXT. MILLER HOUSE - EVENING

Evan slowly walks up the driveway, which is now a dilapidated

mess. Garbage litters the front lawn and paint chips rot off

the sides of the house. Inside, Mr. Miller yells at someone.

Mr. Miller opens the door and sees Evan.

In a blur, Evan grabs Mr. Miller's shirt and violently shoves

him through the house and into a wall.

Mr. Miller goes slack, his eyes wide with horror.

EXT. SEEDY HOTEL - NIGHT

Evan walks past some junkies and enters.

INT. SEEDY HOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Evan steps over some passed out bodies that litter the hallway

of an incredibly seedy motel. The kind with hourly rates. He

knocks on a door.

Kayleigh, now haggard, strung-out junkie, opens the door and

immediately the contempt for Evan grows in her eyes. She

puts out an expression of disappointment.

She looks around, waves him in.

INT. KAYLEIGH'S SEEDY HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The room is dirty and sparse, excepting charred-bottom spoons,

yellowed cotton balls and brown-spotted squares of tin foil.

Evan doesn't hesitate to sit on the "soiled" bed.

Evan can't speak. His eyes begin to water.

His sincerity touches her.

Evan reaches for his wallet and throws it on her dresser.

Kayleigh eyes the wallet. But makes no move to pick it up.

Tears fall freely from Evan's eyes.

Kayleigh watches Evan silently.

Evan continues and Kayleigh listens with a mixture of intense

interest and matched skepticism.

INT. DINER - NIGHT

Kayleigh finishes a plateful of food at a busy diner. She

lights up an after-dinner smoke.

Kayleigh's jaw drops.

Kayleigh tries to conceal the surprise in her eyes.

Kayleigh flinches as if her should had been invaded, then

her eyes fill with distrust and contempt.

She opens Evan's wallet and leaves a twenty on the table.

She gets up and puts on her coat.

She tosses his wallet over her shoulder at him and leaves.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY

Evan enters his familiar looking dorm and hears the familiar

sounds of Thumper having sex with another naked GOTHIC CO-

ED. On Evan's bed.

Evan's temper flares and he picks up a chair and SMASHES it

against a wall above Thumper's head.

Thumper and the co-ed quickly cover themselves in the blankets

and leave. Alone in the room, Evan looks under his bed and

breathes a sigh of relief to see all of his journals are

intact. He sifts through them again. He finally finds the

passage he needs. Something catches the corner of Evan's

eyes and he turns to examine it.

To the left of Thumper's Buddha statuette sits a large VOTIVE

CANDLE that bears a portrait of Jesus Christ.

As he begins reading a passage to himself, SOUNDS ECHO

backward at us from another time and place. And the entire

ROOM SHIMMERS around him --

EXT. MRS. HALPERN'S HOUSE - DAY - 1995

Evan comes to as he, Kayleigh, Lenny and Tommy -- all thirteen --

watch Mrs. Halpern carry her baby back to the mailbox across

the street with intense anticipation. Evan suddenly comes to

life and makes himself visible, running across the street

shouting.

Mrs. Halpern, startled, stares at the young kid skeptically

as she absently continues toward the mailbox.

Lenny comes running across the street to Evan's aid, and

Tommy shrugs and follows after him.

Tommy, still running, cringes to hear Lenny's stupid

confession and rolls his eyes at the situation. Evan positions

himself between Mrs. Halpern and the mailbox, frantically

waving his hand at her to stay back, because she's STILL

COMING.

Tommy takes a running dive at Mrs. Halpern, perhaps a bit

too hard, and sends her and the baby to the pavement, hurt,

but no major injuries.

Seeing things are safe, Evan backs away from the mail --

BOOM!

The blast is deafening! Evan's body is hurled backwards

dramatically.

FLASH!

INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY - 2002

Evan comes to back in his dorm, the same posters are on the

wall, the sheets are the same. Even the familiar sounds of

Thumper having sex under the covers.

Evan's face falls as he hears a familiar voice, but not

Thumper's.

Evan is confused by Lenny's presence, but smiles to himself

and shakes his head "no".

Evan yawns, bringing his hand to his mouth, but there's no

hand. No arm, really, either. Just two FLESHY STUMPS!

Evan bolts upright in bed and stares down at his amputations.

A FLOOD OF MEMORIES ASSAULT HIM:

We see countless and brief image flashes of Evan growing up

from the age of thirteen with NO ARMS, and requiring a

WHEELCHAIR.

INT. MULTIPLEX THEATER LOBBY - DAY - 1995

Tommy and Kayleigh load popcorn and drinks onto Evan's lap

as Lenny pushes the wheelchair.

INT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY - 1995

Evan celebrates his 14th birthday and blows out the candles.

Andrea, Kayleigh, Tommy and Lenny all clap.

EXT. CHURCH - DAY - 1995

Tommy pushes Evan to church.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY - 2002

Evan screams as blood pours from his nose. Lenny is out of

bed at once to help him... as is KAYLEIGH! (Now beautiful

and natural looking).

QUICK SERIES OF FLASHES:

EXT. LAKE - DAY - 1999

Lenny and Kayleigh, as teens, sit together with Evan at the

far end of the boat.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY - 1999

Evan looks on longingly as Lenny and Kayleigh become lovers

in high school.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT - 1999

A campfire. Evan sips from a BEER CAP as Lenny and Kayleigh

make out in plain sight with Tommy's bashful approval.

BACK TO EVAN:

INT. DORM HALLWAY - DAY - 2002

Evan's in agony as Kayleigh opens a series of dorm doors and

Lenny rushes Evan's wheelchair through. Kayleigh carries a

pair of prosthetic arms in her hands.

Evan moans and tries to rub his temple with his stump.

Evan launches his body forward and spills clumsily out of

the wheelchair. Lenny must halt in order not to crush Evan.

As Evan writhes about on the floor, his legs paralyzed, a

CROWD GATHERS.

Evan focuses on Lenny, but it's hard to ignore the crowd

that titters and snickers in the background.

Kayleigh turns to face the jeering crowd.

The crowd breaks up and leaves.

EXT. COLLEGE QUAD - DAY

It's calm now. Lenny and Kayleigh push Evan's wheelchair

around the quad. Evan now wears prosthetic arms. Random PEOPLE

call out to Lenny. He's extremely popular in this world.

Lenny pushes Evan past Thumper and Cricket. Their conversation

stops and they stare at their feet as Evan gets wheeled by.

Evan boils to be treated as if he were non-existent.

Evan spins around in fear. He sees Tommy, clean-cut, and

handing out flyers in front of a banner that reads "Campus

Crusade for Christ." Tommy seems good-natured now, working

hard and soliciting names for his list. He looks up as Evan

rolls along and his eyes brighten to see Evan.

Tommy frowns and exchanges glances with Lenny, who shrugs

and nods back to him.

Another exchanged glance. Kayleigh looks at Evan.

Evan allows Kayleigh to roll him away from the others. To

the very spot where Evan once killed Tommy.

Evan stares at his prosthetic hand which he can "magically"

will to open, close, open, close...

Kayleigh looks at him curiously.

Kayleigh, now by a bench. Stops and sits. As she casually

uses her foot to turn his chair to face her, she pulls out a

granola bar and hands it to him.

His prosthetic hand crushes it. It crumbles to dust. She

seems more confused.

She leans into him, gently feeding him her remaining bar.

She looks into his eyes and shrugs almost apologetically.

Tears streak down Evan's face as he speaks in a pleading

tone.

Kayleigh shakes her head sadly, then suddenly looks up. Evan

turns to see Lenny waving her over. She puts her hand on

Evan's shoulder, stands and goes to Lenny.

Evan can't take his eyes off her.

ANGLE ON

Lenny kissing Kayleigh. In painful slo-mo. Evan turns away,

utterly heartbroken.

INT. HANDICAPPED BATHROOM - DAY

CLOSE UP

Evan's stump turns on a BATHTUB FAUCET.

REVEAL:

Evan, fully clothed, lies in a bathtub that's filling with

water. Beside the tub, the wheelchair has been tipped over.

The water rises past his mouth, to his nostrils -- Evan makes

his peace and takes a final breath.

And the water spills over the side of the tub. All Evan can

do is watch it, still breathing easily through his nose.

A beat. Then the door opens.

TOMMY ENTERS. Immediately sizing up the situation.

Tommy casually turns off the water, then pops open the DRAIN.

The water level lowers to Evan's mouth.

Tommy feels Evan's anguish and plops his ass on the wet floor

by the tub. He lays his head onto Evan's shoulder.

Evan bristles at first, but finally gives in to his hatred,

ultimately resting his own head against Tommy's. Taking the

comfort offered.

INT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL - EVENING

Tommy rolls Evan through a quiet hospital corridor.

Tommy frowns, confused, then rolls Evan into --

INT. ANDREA'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Evan is startled to see Andrea hooked up to several IV's, an

oxygen tank and a respirator. Several oxygen hoses connect

to a tracheotomy tube.

Tommy smiles and kisses Andrea on the cheek. She tousles his

hair in return.

Evan can hardly speak. As Tommy begins to wheel Evan's chair

closer to Andrea's bedside, Andrea utters a faint whisper.

Evan eyes her MEDICAL CLIPBOARD as he's wheeled by.

Andrea flinches to hear this. Evan stares at her, eyes wide.

Evan suddenly seems sick with guilt.

A flicker of recognition registers in her eyes.

Andrea is shocked.

She uses her left hand to pinch off the air to her oxygen

tube and forces herself to speak in a sick, GRAVELY manner.

He pushes a lever and the mechanical wheelchair rolls itself

out of the room.

Andrea forces her loudest raspy scream.

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT

Lenny tears through old cardboard boxes in Evan's closet.

Evan watches nearby.

Evan watches Lenny eagerly as he dumps tons of Evan's junk

on the floor. Old report cards, books, toys and photo albums

fall on the floor.

Evan beams when he sees Lenny holding his old journal. AGE

7.

Lenny, utterly baffled, sits back in silence and watches

Evan begin reading his journal to himself for a beat.

ON EVAN

As new sounds ECHO BACKWARD. There's a --

SHIMMER!

INT. ANDREA'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING - 1989

Evan comes to in his childhood kitchen. He is only seven

years old. He coughs up Lucky Charms that have "magically"

appeared in his mouth. On a journal before him is the recently

written passage:

JOURNAL ENTRY

"Today Mommy is taking me to play with Kayley and Tommy. I

will mete there father and see what a real dad is like."

Andrea is nowhere in sight. Evan springs to his feet and

flexes his real hands triumphantly.

He rummages through the utensil drawer and pulls out a large

butcher knife and grabs it. He tucks it into his sock but it

won't fit. He's still debating what to do when:

ANDREA WALKS IN and is startled by the unexpected sight of

Evan holding a huge knife.

Evan sees her but remains expressionless. Andrea's face

blanches.

FLASH!

INT. EVAN'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002

Evan comes to to find Lenny still staring at him. Waiting

for something big to happen.

Evan flips a single page of his journal and tries again. He

reads to himself, then relaxes his head --

FLASH!

INT. MILLER'S BASEMENT - DAY - 1989

Evan, seven again, stands in the basement dressed in his

Robin Hood costume as Mr. Miller prepares for the sex scene.

Kayleigh giggles. There seems to be a new glint of

intelligence in Evan's eyes as he adjusts to his new

surroundings.

Mr. Miller is puzzled, but watches Evan SKIP to the fireplace.

Mr. Miller puts his eye back to the viewfinder as Evan quickly

finds Mr. Miller's old army thermos in the bottom drawer of

the dresser, opens it and shakes out the blockbuster.

He tries to crack it with his own hands, but his seven-year

old body is too weak.

Mr. Miller finally turns around and sees Evan banging the

blockbuster on the table. Shock registers in Mr. Miller's

eyes and he takes a step towards Evan.

Mr. Miller freezes on that, and Evan smiles at him.

Mr. Miller takes a slow, non-threatening step toward Evan.

Kayleigh's mouth hangs open with utter amazement at the scene.

Tommy, hiding at the top of the stairs, slowly creeps down

to get a better view.

Evan rummages in the bureau and finds the wooden "strike

anywhere" matches used at thirteen to light his cigarettes.

Evan, standing near the fireplace, defiantly strikes the

match with this thumb and lowers the flame to the short fuse.

Mr. Miller charges Evan just as the fuse is lit! Mr. Miller

knocks the blockbuster from Evan's hand and it rolls towards

the other side of the room, resting peacefully against the

video camera.

Kayleigh's eyes are dazzled by the sparkling fuse and she

bends down to pick it up --

EXT. MILLER'S HOUSE - DAY - 1989

BOOM! The blast is deafening.

FLASH!

INT. SUNNYVALE - EVAN'S ROOM - DAY - 2002

Evan, twenty, wakes up with a bloody nose.

Evan gets a new series of QUICK IMAGES and FLASHED FACES.

INT. FAMILY COURTROOM - DAY - 1989

Evan (now seven) is institutionalized before a judge.

INT. SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY - 1989-1994

Evan (seven through twelve) GROWS UP in an institution.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - DAY - 1989-1994

Evan undergoes years of therapy under Redfield's care.

FLASH!

INT. EVAN'S ROOM - SUNNYVALE - DAY - 2002

Evan lies in a room, same posters from college adorn the

walls. Blood flows freely now.

Evan fights off the pain and looks under his bed for

something.

His journals are missing! He runs from the room.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFCIE - DAY

Evan runs into Dr. Redfield's office just as another patient

is leaving.

The doctor looks heartbroken, as if Evan has had a relapse.

Evan looks stunned. Refusing to believe it.

Evan's eyes roll back and he collapses lifelessly to the

floor.

INT. SUNNYVALE LABORATORY - DAY

Evan lies on a platform and gets another series of CAT-scans.

INT. EVAN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Evan, no longer incapacitated, stares out the window into

the darkness. Alone.

Trapped. Hopeless.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - DAY

Later that day, Dr. Redfield posts the new CAT-scan slides

on the light box and shudders when he sees the results. Andrea

looks on anxiously.

Andrea, biting her nails, is unable to conceal her fear.

Andrea begins to break down in tears. Evan secretly listens

in from the hallway.

His gaunt face looks deep in thought. He takes a breath and

enters the lab, making sure not to look directly at his

weeping mother.

Andrea wipes tears away, nodding in advance.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Evan sees no one is watching him in the institution corridor

as he throws his weight into the door of the doctor's office,

breaking it open.

Sporadically, severe VIBRATIONS invade Evan's environment,

threatening to distract him from his mission.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Evan enters the office and tears the file cabinets apart,

looking for something.

His nose bleeds profusely and he repeatedly wipes the blood

off his face with irritation.

Evan sees a cardboard marked TREBORN, E. Grabs it and hides

under the doctor's desk.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

FLASHLIGHT BEAMS stab through the darkened corridor hunting

for him. An ALARM SOUNDS. GUARDS are shouting.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Evan, under the doctor's desk, grabs some paper and begins

writing in shorthand.

Again, the world flutters as if it were attached to a paint-

shaker. He takes a deep breath.

Fatigue overwhelms him, but he continues writing...

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Redfield catches up with the rest of the guards.

INT. DR. REDFIELD'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

The cardboard box is overturned. Evan finishes threading a

SUPER-8 film projector and turns it on. Careful not to let

any light spill against the wall, Evan projects it at the

underside of the desk.

We see familiar home movie footage from his childhood: Lenny,

5, has a birthday party. Kayleigh is there.

ANGLE ON EVAN'S EYES

Getting lost in the memory.

CHAOTIC NOISES of CHILDREN'S PARTY bleed into Evan's reality.

The world SHUDDERS UNCONTROLLABLY.

EXT. LENNY'S BACKYARD - DAY - 1987

Evan, 5, comes to at a birthday party. He's unexpectedly

gently prodded forward by Andrea.

Evan slowly approaches Kayleigh, only five. She smiles

bashfully at him. An old memory comes back to him.

Evan slowly looks around the yard, taking in the reality of

this distant memory.

He even inhales the aroma of the place. Savoring the moment.

He locks eyes with Kayleigh.

It's time. Evan leans over to Kayleigh as if he's about to

kiss her. Then whispers in her ear:

Kayleigh reacts predictably. Bursting into tears and runs

into Kayleigh's mother's arms.

Evan ignores them. He can't take his eyes off Kayleigh.

His eyes well up.

FLASH!

INT. EVAN'S DORM - DAY - 2002

Evan wakes up with a bloody nose. He grabs a pillow and covers

his head with it as a flood of memories seizes him.

Lenny (looking fit) grabs a towel from atop an award-winning

flatworms project and hands it to Evan.

Evan groans and shakes his head "no". He rides out the pain

like a seasoned pro.

When it finally subsides, he lowers the pillow and smiles

feebly.

Lenny nods, still concerned.

INT. COLLEGE - INCINERATOR ROOM - LATER

Evan opens the door to a concrete room with a large furnace.

He and Lenny carry cardboard boxes.

Evan nods. They silently dump tons of journals into the fire.

Evan steps outside and returns with a box of home movies,

photo albums, old report cards, etc. In they go.

CLOSE ON

Burning journals.

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY - 2010

Evan, a suit now, walks down a city street cradling a cell

phone to his ear.

TITLE CARD: YEARS LATER

As he clicks off, an attractive woman wearing a power suit

approaches from the other direction. Evan has to look closely,

but it's Kayleigh. A mature woman, now.

He stumbles slightly, caught off guard. As she passes, her

eyes linger on his a little longer than necessary, but there's

no recognition. Evan watches her continue past him and down

the sidewalk.

After a hesitant beat, he takes a breath, turns around and

follows her.

FADE TO BLACK.

Roll credits...

