He looks at the sea of cars around him sardonically.

Her laughter sounds loud on the car phone speakers.

Beat. The dashboard lights. Snow. Rush hour. Stress.

His satnav sounds bizarrely loud, suddenly:

Vaughn takes a deep breath, loathes the traffic outside.

His phone display indicates another incoming call: `Mia'.

2|Page

Vaughn looks at the incoming call display message. His finger

hovers between the `accept' or `reject call' buttons.

No response, then her call is killed her end.

Vaughn waits a moment. He takes a deep breath. The world seems

to crowd in on him. He presses the call `accept' button.

On Vaughn's face as he struggles to find the right words

CUT TO

1.02 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI  DAY

Vaughn sits in the conservatory and drinks his morning tea.

His gaze out into the garden is broken by something in the

cup, in the tea, that gets his attention. Troubled and

preoccupied, he frowns as he looks at the tea in the tea cup.

His daughter PIP (8) rushes into the conservatory in her

pyjamas and throws herself on him  her beloved, wonderful

Vaughn catches her and tickles her and laughs with her. But

his indecision darkens his tired eyes with stress.

3|Page

1.03 INT. GARDEN SHED  DAY

Vaughn SAWS wood fastened in a workbench vice. The usual

garden shed clutter of garden furnature and bikes around him.

There is a tense, manic regularity to his saw strokes. A

sound, OS, makes him stop sawing:

Pip says something inaudible outside.

Vaughn goes to the shed door. He doesn't really look outside.

He half waits for a response, but when there isn't one he

returns to the workbench. He re-grips the saw and starts to

saw again, but the saw gets jammed in the wood. Vaughn tries

to saw/free it with increasing desperation and anger until we

CUT TO

1.04 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI  DAY

Vaughn pretends to read the paper in the kitchen. The front

door opens. The voices of Mia and Pip approach, OS.

MIA (30s) enters the kitchen with several shopping bags.

She doesn't look at Vaughn.

Vaughn watches in a distracted way.

Pip's footsteps climb the stairs. A girly grunt, OS.

As she speaks, SUPER/SUBTITLE the real meaning of her words:

4|Page

Vaughn grunts something, then goes to help her; but it's half

hearted. He can barely remember where the cereal goes.

Vaughn laughs slightly too loudly. Still no eye contact.

His mind elsewhere, he helps her put the shopping away.

Mia takes a deep breath to control herself.

SUPER

Vaughn holds a can of soup - all that's left of his dignity.

Mia puts the shopping away in the cupboards and the fridge.

The tension is palpable. Silence strangles them both.

Mia finishes putting things away without looking at him.

The last item goes in the last cupboard. Bags are stored.

A beat. Vaughn's body is wracked by guilty tension.

SUPER

Vaughn hides his torment and indecision as best he can.

SUPER

Mia takes the can of soup from him and puts it away.

5|Page

SUPER

Mia leaves the kitchen without looking at him.

CUT TO

1.05 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI  DAY

Vaughn, Mia and Pip sit at the table eating lunch.

Vaughn reacts half-heartedly but lovingly to Pip. Mia pretends

everything is fine: the stiffness of her body and the smile.

Vaughn looks at Pip's hands. Innocence. The stony road ahead.

The lack of eye contact with Vaughn speaks volumes.

Mia chastises Pip.

Vaughn manages to smile. He wants to throw up.

6|Page

SUPER

1.06 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI  DAY

Mia bustles Pip out of the front door. Pip is in tears.

Vaughn stands in the kitchen doorway.

There's a crack in Mia's voice that destroys Vaughn.

Mia closes the door after them. He sees their shapes through

the frosted glass of the front door. Ghosts. Departing. Gone.

1.07 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI  DAY

Vaughn sits staring unseeing at the TV, which babbles Saturday

afternoon crap. He picks up his mobile. He thumbs through his

text messages. He opens one. It says `Do it. Do it for me. For

us! xxx' He stares at it. He suddenly stands, takes a deep

breath and gets control. A decision makes itself.

1.08 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI PIPS BEDROOM  NIGHT

Pip lies in her bed. Scared, she hears her parents' voices

through the wall. Anger and resentment, sadness and shock.

1.09 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI MASTER BEDROOM  CONTINUOUS

Wracked with self-loathing, Vaughn stands awkwardly beside the

bed. Mia stares at him, incredulous. Tears blur her eyes.

She expresses the giving of herself in an unconditional way.

Vaughn tries to express something  anything. He fails.

7|Page

1.10 EXT. / INT. SALOON CAR  NIGHT, LATER

Outside the house Vaughn throws an overnight bag onto the back

seat of the car. He gets into the car. He slams the door shut,

grips the steering wheel. The enormity of it is impossible.

He doesn't look up at Pip looking down at him from her bedroom

window. That would break him. Worse, it might change his mind.

He starts the engine.

1.11 EXT. PLAYGROUND  DAY

Vaughn sits on a bench and waits. He pulls his coat around him

against the biting cold. He checks his mobile again. Nothing.

The unthinkable crosses his face. Surely not. But then

BROOKE (38) walks across the playground toward him. She sees

him, hurries. It takes him a moment to recognise her. That

troubles him. He smiles at her  his first smile in a long

time. Her smile speaks of very real joy after very real pain.

He stands in order to greet her. She tries not to cry, but

it's impossible. She embraces and kisses him passionately.

She looks at him like he's all she ever wanted. He sees

disguised scars on her face. The scars of pain in her eyes.

She holds him, lays her head against his chest.

She has found her home in him. And he is unsettled.

1.12 INT. CHEAP FLAT  DAY

Brooke opens the door of the fridge in the kitchen for Vaughn.

Vaughn smiles at her, looks around. It's pretty crummy.

8|Page

SUPER

She does a little dance for him, bows low.

She smiles her love. He accepts it. He wants it  all of it.

She puts the kettle on. A beat of silence.

His mobile phone bleeps a text message. He ignores it.

He grabs her, kisses her. He looks like a man trying to

convince himself that if he ignores it, reality will go away.

Emotion overwhelms her, so she gets busy with the tea. Vaughn

looks around again, and out of the window. A cheap view, too.

She smiles again. Taking her cue, he looks at the portrait

photography on the walls in the living room. It's brilliant.

He is lost for words.

9|Page

She does another little dance of joy.

She screams a little, laughs a lot. She buries her nose in his

armpits  or tries to. They play-fight and kiss. The kiss

develops into more. She wants him. They are lost in each other

until Vaughn slows them down, pulls back slightly, gently.

The kettle boils. It doesn't turn itself off. They hold each

other's eyes. The kettle over boils. The thing between them

builds and builds until she suddenly laughs and turns the

kettle off. He indicates upstairs, and then exits upstairs.

She watches him go. Her excitement is obvious. If she senses

that something is wrong, there is no outward sign of it.

1.13 INSERT

IMAGES: Brooke being attacked by a knife wielding lover;

Brooke curled in a bloody ball, weeping; Brooke the 5 year old

child playing with a 7 year old boy in long lost sunshine.

CUT TO

10 | P a g e

1.14 INT. CHEAP FLAT  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dusting snow off them, Vaughn and Brooke come through the

front door, which Brooke closes behind them. They're drunk,

laughing, and sexual. Snow falling is visible outside.

1.15 LATER INT. CHEAP FLAT  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Vaughn and Brooke fall onto her bed. They undress each other.

The momentum builds until knife scars on Brooke's body are

revealed. He sees them. She turns the light off, tries to hide

them. She tries to make light of it but she's ashamed of them.

The momentum of their desire founders, and stops.

SUPER

SUPER

SUPER

She smiles at him, gets under the duvet. He stands awkwardly

beside the bed a moment, and then gets in beside her. They lie

separately for a moment, and then Vaughn embraces her softly.

She pulls the duvet up to her neck to hide her body totally.

SUPER

11 | P a g e

SUPER

He embraces her, reassures her. But he is troubled.

SUPER

SUPER

She kisses him, holds him as if she never wants to let go.

1.16 INSERT

IMAGE: Brooke being shanked by her jealous ex-lover.

CUT TO

1.17 EXT. SCHOOL  DAY

Snow has turned the world into a postcard.

With a kiss and a wave, Mia drops Pip off at primary school.

She looks like she hasn't slept, but manages to be cheerful.

1.18 EXT. QUIET ROAD  DAY, LATER

Mia drives then stops the car down an isolated country lane.

Her mask of courage shatters: she begins to weep like a child.

1.19 EXT. CHEAP FLAT  EVENING

Vaughn pulls up in his car after work. He gets out. He looks

at the deep tracks his car has made in the WHITE snow. He

looks at the outside of the flat. He hesitates, then goes in.

12 | P a g e

1.20 INT. CHEAP FLAT  CONTINUOUS

Vaughn enters. Brooke rushes to him, smothers him in kisses.

They hold each other. For a moment he is free of care.

SUPER

Vaughn struggles to find an answer to such an inane question.

SUPER

She steps back, does a `ta-dah!' and gestures towards the

1.21 INT. CHEAP FLAT - KITCHEN

Brooke leads him in by the hand. A new suit, some new shirts,

new business and casual shoes, and some men's accessories lie

on the kitchen table. Dirty crockery lies in the kitchen sink.

He goes to the new gear, handles it, and smiles at her.

SUPER

SUPER

He takes her hand, glances back at the unwashed dishes.

13 | P a g e

SUPER

He pulls her too him. She smarts at his strength, so he holds

her gently, nurtures her. They kiss. Their passion builds.

1.22 INT. CHEAP FLAT BATHROOM - EVENING, LATER

Vaughn and Brooke shower together. He washes her body gently.

1.23 INT. CHEAP FLAT  BEDROOM - EVENING, LATER

Vaughn and Brooke get into bed together. Candlelight

illuminates their naked bodies and throws shadows around them.

They start to make love, but then Vaughn stops.

She is deeply hurt, but puts a brave face on it.

He doesn't know what to do.

It's awkward between them: her pain and his change of heart.

1.24 INSERT

IMAGE: Brooke being shanked by her jealous ex-lover.

BACK WITH

1.25 INT. CHEAP FLAT  BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Vaughn and Brooke in bed: it should be heaven but its hell.

14 | P a g e

1.26 INT. SUBURBAN SEMI  DAY

Vaughn enters the house awkwardly. Mia avoids his eyes.

He's wearing the new clothes Brooke bought him.

SUPER

An emotional wreck, Mia nods.

SUPER

Vaughn is clearly shocked that Mia knows what she knows.

Vaughn doesn't know what to say, how to react.

She can't hold it back any longer. She weeps her agony.

15 | P a g e

She stumbles at him, pounds him with her fists; but when she

hits him she recoils from the contact with his body.

She wipes her hands of the contact with him.

She collapses, sobbing uncontrollably.

Vaughn glimpses something through the living room door he

hasn't seen before: a WHITE feather lying on the dresser.

It holds his attention until he exits the front door.

1.27 INT. SALOON CAR  EVENING

Vaughn sits in rush-hour traffic. The cars ahead of him are

moving, but he sits static, staring ahead. Car horns blare.

His satnav sounds bizarrely loud, suddenly:

Snow outside. The dashboard lights seem to swirl around him.

1.28 INT. CHEAP FLAT  EVENING

Vaughn enters. He puts his brief case down.

Brooke suddenly jumps out from behind the kitchen door.

She laughs and runs toward him, but he isn't impressed.

16 | P a g e

SUPER

Vaughn frowns deeply, hides his irritation. The TV babbles, OS

He's rained on her parade, and now he feels like crap.

SUPER

SUPER

SUPER

She twirls a seductive finger around his tie. They kiss.

17 | P a g e

1.29 INT. CHEAP FLAT  BEDROOM - EVENING, LATER

Vaughn and Brooke begin to make love in bed. It's better this

time: their passion builds; it's going to be OK. But then

He begins to falter and she begins to cry. Her cry becomes a

SCREAM

Vaughn pulls back from her, looks at her. Her terror.

She suddenly seems alone, naked on the bed. She tries one last

time: she goes to him, touches him; but he can't respond.

He realises. And now her dream is over.

Vaughn searches for words, but he finds only his reality.

Reaching critical emotional mass, she gets up quickly, puts

the overhead light on. It seems stark and horribly bright.

She weeps, reveals her damaged knife SCARRED body to him.

1.30 INSERT

IMAGE: Brooke being shanked by her jealous ex-lover.

BACK WITH

1.31 INT. CHEAP FLAT  BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Vaughn suddenly feels as vulnerable as she looks.

18 | P a g e

He looks at her. He sees suicide in her eyes.

She suddenly lunges for him, starts to punch him. To Vaughn

this now has the quality of a nightmare. This is impossible.

They struggle. She's no match for him, but he is half hearted.

He takes it. She smashes at him. His nose and mouth bleed.

She SCREAMS like a wild animal, goes to punch him again; but

Vaughn SNAPS: he lashes out at her, sends her flying

backwards. She lands badly, gasping with pain and shock.

Vaughn's bloody mouth begins to form the word `sorry' again.

Vaughn stands there panting, bleeding; wishing he could cry.

On Vaughn: naked, bleeding and alone, as he tries to react we

CUT TO BLACK

19 | P a g e

BLACK

SUPER

FADE IN ON

2.32 INT. STORAGE DEPOT  DAY

BLACK, OVER-POLISHED SHOES

The shoes SQUEAK as the man wearing them walks down a lino

floor. These are the kind of shoes worn by a man who works

long hours on his feet. It becomes clear that the man has a

very slight limp. He walks down a strip-lit corridor in

2.33 INT. STORAGE DEPOT  DAY

A LONG, BLEAK CORRIDOR

The man who wears the shoes is MO (30s)  a very well-built,

dark haired guy with a sensitive yet watchful and angry face.

Mo is a security guard; he wears security guard paraphernalia

on his uniform belt: keys, torch, walkie-talkie etc.

He stops and listens, so the slightly uneven SQUEAKING stops.

He hears distant voices in the

2.34 INT. MAIN WAREHOUSE - DAY

This place is huge. It's also soulless and grim. Row upon row

of gated storage areas are crammed with peoples' belongings.

Between these rows walks CY (50s) with female admin staffer

DOLORES (40s). Cy has a dishevelled look of a man who has

stopped searching for his dreams. Self-dissatisfaction, hatred

even, haunts his tired face. He doesn't want to be here.

They approach a storage area numbered 110. Dolores reaches for

a skeleton key attached to her belt by a security chain.

20 | P a g e

Dolores unlocks the storage area. She pushes the door open.

Cy enters the storage area. He starts rummaging through boxes.

A door opens and closes in the distance.

Dolores' mobile rings. She answers it.

She ends the phone call, looks OS.

A slightly uneven SQUEAK approaches.

Mo rounds a corner at the end of a storage row.

There is an unusually long delay before Mo responds.

Mo approaches, and stops when he reaches DOLORES.

But she's smiling. There's familiarity between them. When Mo

smiles, however, the smile seems out of place on his face.

21 | P a g e

Mo laughs. A strange laugh. She throws him an angry face.

She heads off, pulling one last face at Mo as she goes.

Cy's voice is barely audible as he rummages in boxes.

Mo looks in at him. He gets a text, checks it, and responds.

With a `ha!', Cy pulls something out of a box. Mo waits. As he

does so, he shifts his weight from his right foot to his left.

Cy emerges from the storage area looking flushed with effort.

Mo goes to lock storage area 110. Cy looks at the object he

has retrieved: an old VHS video cassette. Mo sees it.

Cy speaks to him grudgingly. He wants to get the hell out.

The door locked, Mo starts to walk away from 110 with Cy.

Cy walks way ahead of Mo. The hell out of here.

22 | P a g e

His disgust is obvious in the way he avoids looking at Mo.

Cy walks faster but Mo knows he doesn't know where he's going.

Mo looks more closely at him.

Cy keeps walking but doesn't know where he's going.

Cy just speeds up.

23 | P a g e

Cy won't slow down, so Mo puts a hand on his shoulder.

Cy looks at him for the first time. Mo sees his bitterness.

Cy turns away to carry on walking. He's lost.

He looks around. Left or right?

Mo gets his mobile out. He goes to photograph Cy.

Cy turns away, irritated. He looks around  up at the roof.

24 | P a g e

They stand at a junction between rows. Left or right?

Mo laughs a little at the whole idea of a VHS.

Cy looks around. It seems like a labyrinth.

Mo clicks his fingers, remembering suddenly:

Mo looks up and waves to a CCTV camera.

25 | P a g e

Mo's attitude changes noticeably in response to this.

Mo leads Cy off. Cy is suddenly more wary of him.

They walk in silence a moment. The uneven squeak.

He offers his hand to shake. Cy takes it very grudgingly. They

shake hands. Cy fully takes in Mo's physical size and power.

Mo lets go of Cy's hand. Cy is relieved. They walk on.

Mo laughs. It's a strange sound.

26 | P a g e

They round a corner. Cy twigs they're back where they started.

Cy reaches for his mobile phone. He goes to dial, but Mo

SMASHES

it out of his hand. It hits the floor and breaks.

2.35 EXT. STORAGE DEPOT  DAY, SAME TIME

People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city

skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are.

2.36 INT. STORAGE DEPOT  DAY, SAME TIME

Cy stares at his smashed phone, at Mo. Mo's face is a mask.

The mask eventually moves. Confusion hits Mo's face. It's as

if another part of him did that, a part he can't control.

Panic starts to show itself in Cy's face. Deep down.

Mo shifts his weight from his right foot to his left.

Cy glances around, at his smashed phone on the floor.

27 | P a g e

He looks up, sees CCTV cameras. He stoops down to pick up the

parts of his broken phone. He finds the SIM card, pockets it.

There's something pathetic about the way he stoops.

Cy stands, meets Mo's gaze full on for the first time, really.

Mo just looks at him. Unsettling.

Mo just looks at him. A door opens and closes somewhere.

Cy sets off on his own walking again. He's had enough.

Cy stops, turns. What?

Cy swallows air.

28 | P a g e

Cy pulls himself together.

Cy starts off walking again. Endless rows. Junctions.

He gestures then they're out of here.

29 | P a g e

Beat.

Beat.

Cy swallows, waits, looks for CCTV cameras.

Mo shifts his weight from his right foot to his left. In that

single moment Cy knows he's in a situation he can't control.

Some strip-lights turn off way down the warehouse.

Cy glances at his watch.

Cy looks at him. Do what again?

30 | P a g e

More strip lights turn themselves out. Darkness builds.

He laughs. It sounds bizarre in the infinity of the depot.

Mo's suddenly killing himself laughing. Crying with it.

Cy starts to RUN.

Lightning fast, Mo intercepts him, grabs him, pulls him down.

Mo HITS him. Not a killer blow, but enough to shut him up.

2.37 EXT. STORAGE DEPOT  DAY, SAME TIME

People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city

skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are.

2.38 INT. STORAGE DEPOT  DAY, SAME TIME

Mo leads/drags Cy towards a half empty storage area  222.

Holding Cy, Mo unlocks 222 and pushes Cy inside.

Mo locks the door behind them.

It's dark, and to Cy feels like a cage.

Cy screams `Help'. No response.

Mo looks around. He pulls up a box on one side, and sets an

old chair opposite it on the other side of the caged area.

31 | P a g e

Cy throws himself at the door, heaves at it.

Mo smashes his fist into Cy's face.

Mo flicks his keys around in circles. Shock grips Cy's throat.

Cy looks around for escape. A phone rings, somewhere OS.

The phone stops ringing. A silent vastness of industrial dark.

32 | P a g e

Cy tries to slow his breathing down, get a grip.

Cy's breathing in the dark. Mo's keys. No way out.

He jerks his head. He means the office  colleagues.

Cy tries the door again, but it's half-hearted.

Mo stands, suddenly, and comes over to Cy quickly. He grabs

him by the hair and forces him to sit down on the old chair.

Mo sits down opposite Cy on the box. He waits.

33 | P a g e

Cy stares at him. This is insane. But he has no choice.

Mo immediately gets up, starts beating him to pulp.

2.39 INT. THE WAREHOUSE - DAY

Row after row of caged storage areas. Industrial vastness.

No hint of violence. No sign of anything wrong.

2.40 INT. THE BOX - DAY

This is where Mo should be: his security vantage point. A

crappy chair, a crappy desk, and CCTV monitors staring.

2.41 INT. STORAGE DEPOT  AREA 222 - DAY

His hands shaking and panting from the exertion, Mo

photographs Cy with his phone. Cy is beaten to a pulp.

Mo applies lipstick, mascara and powder to his face. Lovely.

Then Mo sits down. Calm. Audition time.

Cy almost sobs. He spits blood.

Lightning fast, Mo is on him, beating him shitless.

34 | P a g e

2.42 INT. THE WAREHOUSE - DAY

Dolores hums Gladys Knight and The Pips as she walks down a

cheaply carpeted corridor in the admin area of the building.

2.43 INT. STORAGE DEPOT  AREA 222 - DAY

Cy collapses under the onslaught of Mo's fists. Mo grimaces at

his damaged knuckles. He hauls Cy back onto the box.

He indicates his readiness again, and waits.

Cy is too smashed and bloody and ruined to do more than grunt.

But something catches his eye; in the filthy gloom he sees a

WHITE feather lying on the ground in the corner of 222.

He smiles and waits for Cy to look at him to audition him.

35 | P a g e

At first Cy doesn't understand, but then he slowly,

agonisingly raises his hands up and mimes rolling a camera.

It's hard for Cy to make the sound of a camera rolling.

2.44 INT. THE WAREHOUSE - DAY

Dolores sits down at her desk. Gladys Knight and The Pips.

2.45 INT. STORAGE DEPOT  AREA 222 - DAY

Cy mimes cranking a camera and makes camera noises. He glances

over to where the white feather was but now he can't see it.

Mo looks into the `camera' and lives the role he's playing.

36 | P a g e

Mo ends the performance in tears. It's brilliant.

Cy continues to crank the `camera' and make camera noises.

Eventually Mo gets up and stops him with uncommon gentleness.

He crouches down beside Cy, smooths his hair.

It's agony, but eventually Cy manages to speak.

Mo stands, smiles, basking in his moment of glory.

This is his prize. This is his moment. But his face darkens.

Mo starts to beat Cy gain, but this time he kicks him too. He

goes berserk, throwing Cy around like a rag doll, pulping him.

2.46 INT. THE BOX - DAY

Dolores enters.

The room is empty. She approaches Mo's desk. She doesn't even

glance at the bottle of prescription pills, on which the word

`suppression' is just visible. She glances at the CCTV

screens. Nothing. She presses a button, bringing up the

display from another CCTV. She sees the grainy, monochrome

image of Cy's pulped face being smashed against the bars of

222. As she gasps in horrified reaction and grabs the phone

37 | P a g e

CUT TO

2.47 EXT. STORAGE DEPOT  DAY, SAME TIME

People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city

skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are.

Very slowly, gradually, we

FADE TO BLACK

38 | P a g e

BLACK

SUPER

3.48 EXT. LONDON E3 - EVENING

Footsteps and breathing: the SOUNDS of a young man running for

his life. The staccato pounding of his feet becomes a mantra

that builds until it develops a life of its own, and a surreal

edge. It becomes a ghostly, dreamlike sound  evil perhaps.

The running footsteps suddenly stop. The breathing continues.

Beat, then

FADE IN ON

3.49 INT. COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING

AUSTEN (12) plays Skyrim on a brand new Mac PowerBook. The hi-

tech, futuristic sheen of the Apple is utterly at odds with

the room Austen is in: money seems to be in short supply here.

Austen is a cut and paste hoodie: a white boy going nowhere.

JADEN (18, white) enters. Lean and strong, Jaden is savvy

but drugs have left their mark on his face and in his eyes.

He grabs the Mac from Austen. They push and pull for it.

Jaden whacks Austen around the head  light, but hard enough

to break his grip. Jaden puts the computer to one side; the

way he handles it suggests that replacing it would be a synch.

Austen attacks him, but Jaden restrains him.

39 | P a g e

Austen makes for the Mac again, but Jaden restrains him.

They fight a moment, but it's futile: Austen pulls back,

humiliated and outraged. He kisses his teeth and birds.

Austen switches the TV on, turns it up LOUD.

Jaden switches the TV off. Austen squares up to him. A beat

between him, then Austen backs down: Jaden is way too big.

Austen storms out of the room.

40 | P a g e

Austen is now out of the room in the hallway beyond.

The sound of the front door opening and slamming shut, OS.

Jaden curses, thinks. Jaden is always thinking.

He exits suddenly.

CUT TO

3.50 EXT. LONDON E3  EVENING

Hood up, Jaden walks fast. It's dark already, and cold.

Jaden speeds up. He feels the reassuring bulge in his belt at

the base of his spine. He does this often, by habit.

He gets a text. He checks the message. Doesn't reply.

A police car cruises. Jaden doesn't react to it, but he does

so in a way that suggests that this is a measured response.

He grabs his phone, hits some keys. Someone picks up.

He kills the call, stows his mobile.

A car slows near him and stops at traffic lights. Jaden's

attention is drawn by a WHITE feather on the back window

shelf. A shadow crosses Jaden's face. The car pulls away.

He approaches a group of young male hoodies smoking and

texting outside a corner store. They greet with touched fists.

Jaden talks with a few of them, and then walks on. It's clear

that he has their respect, though they show it very subtly.

3.51 EXT. NEAR-BY

Cool and calm, Austen pockets a wad of cash. The youth he's

with stuffs something in his jacket pocket. They touch fists.

41 | P a g e

Austen goes on his way. He feels like a proper man. He walks.

He sees Jaden way ahead. Jaden sees him, starts running.

Austen runs. The streets blur around him into a narrative of

his life: the urban landscape dancing to the beat of his feet.

Runs, runs, runs

Jaden and Austen

They sprint the streets, the alleys, the music, and then

Jaden catches him and

GRABS HIM

ON Austen's snarl, FREEZE FRAME and

3.52 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING

In the kitchen-diner: Jaden, Austen and their dad: PAUL (50s).

Paul says a prayer before they eat their corner shop meal.

Jaden's hands are together in respect for Paul. Austen

deliberately pays no attention to the ritual at all.

Jaden throws Austen a look. Mean and fierce. And now suddenly

we see what he's capable of. Fear overcomes Austen's

arrogance. He puts his hands together and closes his eyes.

The crucifix on the wall. Christ's tormented face in the cheap

shadows of this dull, crappy kitchen. It's all Paul has.

Seeing Jaden's eyes now closed in prayer for Pauls' sake

Austen can't resist feeling the wad of new cash in his pocket.

42 | P a g e

The boys join him in `Amen'  Jaden properly; Austen barely.

They begin to eat their corner shop meal.

Austen sees a shadow cross Jaden's face as Jaden remembers

3.53 INT. E3 HOUSE  NIGHT

In washed-out, high grain:

Jaden necks and smooches with a black girl called LYCIA.

Around them the party pops: drugs and big bass and wannabe

cool young kids getting into each other or off on each other.

Lycia smiles and laughs and love the attention, but

A young black guy  J.C.  looks death at her, his girl, then

at Jaden, who meets the challenge of the alpha competition.

Jaden feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine.

3.54 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING, LATER

The meal over, Jaden does the dishes. Paul sits at the table.

Austen playing Skyrim in the next room is audible.

Paul breaks down in a fit of coughing.

Christ watches on.

Jaden suddenly leaves the sink and goes into the

3.55 INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Jaden grabs the Mac off Austen again. This time Austen cowers.

3.56 INT. KITCHEN - EVENING

Paul lights a cigarette. A moment's pleasure. He slips into

what might be a reverie, or just exhaustion. ON PAUL, hearing

this as Paul might - given his dislocated state of mind:

43 | P a g e

The sound of a punch, perhaps.

Paul flinches. He looks to Christ. Christ is tormented.

3.57 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING, LATER

Jaden lifts up a floorboard in his bedroom. He looks at his

stash of pills, rocks and a pipe. Half the rocks are missing.

3.58 INT. AUSTEN'S ROOM - EVENING

Jaden bursts in, but quietly. His silence doesn't diminish the

power of his intent. Scared, Austen's looks up at him suddenly

from his bed, where he plays Call of Duty on a TV console.

The potency of Jaden's emotion and words shocks Austen; but

now Austen shows nothing but the pride and power he admires.

Austen reaches into his jacket pocket on the chair by his bed.

44 | P a g e

Jaden stops him.

Austen nods reluctantly. He leaves the money where it is.

Jaden exits the room.

3.59 INT. PAUL'S ROOM - EVENING

Later, a knock on Paul's door. No response. Jaden pushes the

door open a crack, revealing Paul lost and alone on his bed in

a tiny sliver of light among infinite council house darkness.

Seen like this, the marks life has left on Paul are obvious.

Paul just frowns. He seems too tired to speak. He expresses

`come back safely' in a way that is very hard to bear.

Jaden enters the room. He tucks his old man up in bed safe.

Then he leaves the room quietly and pulls the door shut safe.

He goes downstairs and exits the house quietly.

The ceramic Christ on the Cross in the hallway is silent.

3.60 EXT. E3  EVENING

Jaden walks. He is assured and cool. This is his stage.

He feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine.

He gets a text. He checks the message, likes it. He replies.

He greets a group of other hoodies with small talk and fists.

Done, he moves on down another street. He has goods to sell.

He takes a call, makes another, texts and talks. Smooth.

45 | P a g e

A BMW

Swerves near him, splashing him with headlights.

Jaden looks, sees faces he doesn't want to see.

He speeds up and then runs down a side street.

The BMW follows. Now Jaden

Runs, runs, runs

This is our first scene over again.

The streets blur around him into a narrative of his life: the

urban landscape dancing to the beat of his feet. But

Jaden wasn't born to run. Dodging up an alley he slows, turns.

The BMW doors open. Three men get out, follow him.

The glint and sound of shanks being drawn, ready.

Breathing hard but measured, Paul turns and faces them: a big

black guy, an ugly white guy and a tall Chinese guy.

Jaden feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine.

The big black guy comes at him with the shank. It's J.C.  the

hood from the party. The other guys back him up.

J.C. lunges at Jaden. His shank cuts Jaden mid torso. The

other guys follow up, their blades flashing, searching.

Jaden withdraws the bulge at the base of his spine. His gun.

BOOM  his gun speaks - he shoots J.C. dead.

BOOM, BOOM

46 | P a g e

The gun speaks to the other two guys, killing China outright

and wounding the white guy badly. White guy falls, screaming.

He kneels over white, tries to stop him screaming. But he

SCREAMS

over and over - blood pouring from his punctured chest.

JADEN

Looks around, desperate for him to stop it. Already

THE STREETS

around him are changing  as if they are turning to look but

WHITE GUY

Screams and grabs at his bleeding chest. His wild eyes beg.

JADEN

Begins to fold, to lose it as reality comes rushing in and he

SHOOTS

White guy dead. Shuts up. Silent streets. Then after forever

SIRENS

Grow out of the darkness.

Jaden throws his gun away instinctively. Incrimination. He

starts to run. Changes his mind. Turns and picks the gun up.

Sirens seem to haunt the city. And now Jaden

RUNS

So that the city is just lights and people and cars and noise

and people and darkness and people and there, amongst them

AUSTEN

Watching him, his brother and his idol. So now we

CUT TO BLACK

47 | P a g e

3.61 INT. / EXT. IMAGES, STROBE FAST:

Jaden crouches down in the darkness, blood on his hands, blood

on his shirt, blood on his cut torso, blood on his soul.

Jaden stashes his gun in a cloth under the floorboards.

Jaden is tormented by what he's done. Self-loathing.

J.C. and the other dead guys  a bloodbath. Sirens growing.

Jaden throws up on a street corner.

Jaden tucks his old man up in bed safe.

All the time

Austen seems to be watching, learning, admiring. Idolising.

CUT TO

3.62 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING

In the kitchen-diner: Jaden, Austen and Paul.

Paul says a prayer before they eat their corner shop meal.

Austen looks at the crappy bandages around Jaden's torso.

Jaden's hands are together in respect for Paul. Austen prays,

but is now confused. He's scared, but totally in awe of Jaden.

Jaden looks around his praying hands at Austen.

It's a look that Austen will never, ever forget.

3.63 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  LATER, EVENING

The Mac in the sitting room sits unused.

3.64 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING

The games console in Austen's bedroom sits unused.

3.65 INT. JADEN's ROOM - EVENING

Jaden winces with the agony in his cut bloody torso.

48 | P a g e

3.66 INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Christ stares unseeing in his ceramic torment in the kitchen.

3.67 EXT. E3  DAY

Austen walks home from school. Kids look at him.

Something has changed.

3.68 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  SHOWER - EVENING

Blood runs down the plug hole in the dirty bath.

3.69 INT. THE HALLWAY - EVENING

Austen hears the sound of the shower running. He enters

3.70 INT. JADEN'S BEDROOM - EVENING

He tiptoes to the floorboards near Jaden's bed.

He very cautiously levers a floorboard up. Crystals, pills,

pipes, weed  but much more than before. But not what he wants

to see. So Austen puts the floorboard back. He goes to the

door, listens again. The shower still runs. He tiptoes back to

Jaden's bed, looks around. He lifts up Jaden's pillow.

THE GUN

Sits there  sleek and cool and mighty and everything.

Slowly, daring himself, Austen goes to TOUCH IT. His fingers

linger on the smooth, cool, imperious steel. Austen is a God.

3.71 INT. E3 HOUSE  NIGHT

Jaden and Lycia make love. Slow and perfectly tender, and then

hard and porn. On and on. Bodies twisting in their search for

each other. They come - Jaden's body arching in torment.

LATER

Lycia cradles his head on her breasts. His breathing is

uneven, but then it evens out and slowly becomes calm.

She looks at his bandaged torso. She is afraid.

49 | P a g e

3.72 EXT. E3  NIGHT

Jaden walks the streets. Hoods look at and greet him in a

different way. Respect, but this is a dead man walking.

3.73 INT. / EXT. GOLF GTI/E3  DAY

Jaden drives Austen, who is in his school uniform. His hands

up on the wheel, the dragon tat on Jaden's arm is visible.

To Austen, Jaden looks a little pale, a little ill.

They see a cop car. Another passes them coming the other way.

Jaden throws him a look.

Their shared secret dominates their every breath.

They drive a while. Then Jaden sees that Austen's hair 100%

exactly matches his own in terms of its length and styling.

50 | P a g e

They approach the school.

Austen glances at Jaden's torso and then gets out of the car.

Austen looks at him. Tears well up in his eyes. He nods.

Emotionless, Jaden closes the car door and drives off.

On the pavement, Austen watches him go.

3.74 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  NIGHT

By torchlight under his duvet, Austen draws a `tat' on his

forearm with a biro that matches Jaden's real tat perfectly.

3.75 INT. JADEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Smoking a bong and drinking, his headphones on and the music

cranked high, Jaden fights an inner battle he can never win.

He looks at his gun on his bedside table. A thing of new evil.

Septic, the wound in his torso is draining him of life.

3.76 INT. CHURCH  DAY

Jaden and Austen kneel beside Paul in prayer. Except that

Jaden only kneels on one knee and Austen on neither; and

neither of them are really praying. Beside them Paul prays

with worshipers in the congregation of a dozen or so.

Jaden's hoodie hood is down out of respect. Austen has his

hoodie hood up. Jaden pulls it down. Austen throws him a look,

kisses his tongue. Jaden's eyes darken. Austen relents.

Jaden looks over, sees a man who seems wrong in here. He

twigs: plain clothes COP. Cops don't pray and this one is.

51 | P a g e

3.77 EXT. E3  NIGHT

Jaden sprints flat out through the people, cars, and lights.

At this speed his footsteps are barely a fluttering staccato.

He won't make it.

3.78 INT. E3 HOUSE  NIGHT

Lycia cowers in a corner. Three masked guys stand over her.

One has the shank pointing at her, accusing, hating her. This

guy is familiar. Broad, black, athletic, he is similar to J.C.

His name is LINDEN (30). He is J.C.'s brother.

FLASHBACK

3.79 INT. E3 HOUSE  NIGHT

J.C. looks death at Lycia, his girl, and then at Jaden, who

meets the challenge of the alpha competition. With other hoods

beside and behind J.C. stands Linden. Brothers to the end.

Jaden feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine.

BACK WITH

3.80 INT. E3 HOUSE  CONTINUOUS

Linden pulls his mask off, stares hatred at Lycia.

Linden starts slicing her face up. On her SCREAMS

CUT TO

3.81 EXT. E3  NIGHT

Jaden sprints flat out through the people, cars, and lights.

He rounds a corner in time to see Linden's car smoke away.

CUT TO BLACK

UP ON

52 | P a g e

3.82 INT. HOSPITAL WARD  DAY

A CIRCLE OF LIGHT IN THAT BLACK

Lycia lies in a hospital bed. Her whole head is bandaged.

SOUNDS of a busy hospital ward around them ebb and die.

Jaden holds her hand. He weeps.

CUT TO BLACK. UP ON

3.83 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  DAY

Paul brings tea into the living room for himself and the Cop

from the church. Austen stands uneasily near the door. In his

dress, haircut and demeanour he is a perfect model of Jaden.

Paul goes to Austen and puts an arm around his wonderful son.

The Cop sips the tea.

Confusion fills Austen's scared face. His dilemma is complete.

Silent in his agony, Christ watches on.

3.84 INT. JADEN'S BEDROOM  NIGHT

Austen lifts up the stash floorboard. There is nothing there.

53 | P a g e

3.85 INT. THE BATHROOM  NIGHT

Austen takes a breath, then slices his torso in the same place

Jaden was cut. He winces. He hadn't expected it to hurt this

much. Blood flows down and out of the crappy bath plughole.

3.86 INT. THE BATHROOM  LATER, NIGHT

Austen dabs at his new manhood wound, which won't stop

bleeding. There are mountains of bloody toilet roll on the

shelf and floor near him. On the toilet roll holder there is

no paper left. Austen looks at his new wound in the mirror.

He makes a gun of his hand and shoots himself in the mirror.

Cool.

3.87 EXT. LYLE PARK, CANNING TOWN, LONDON  EVENING

Fugitive Jaden stands looking into the flowing river. He is

pale and gaunt and dirty. Austen stands behind him. He looks

exactly how Jaden used to look. And his torso is bandaged.

Jaden squints at him.

Austen thinks about it for a while.

Traffic SOUNDS ebb and die. History flows down to the sea.

Jaden looks at him. Proud of him? Fuck.

Jaden has to hold on to the railings now.

54 | P a g e

Jaden looks around him. Darkness is falling.

Austen produces a gun from the base of his spine. His gun.

He stares at Austen's gun. Tears blur the evening.

He says it with his tears. This isn't going to happen to you.

Austen holds his arms out as if to say `this is what I am'.

Jaden reaches for the base of his spine.

Austen stands there waiting for Jaden's bullet.

Jaden takes his hand away from his gun.

Jaden mumbles something inaudible.

He indicates his ears, that wanking makes you deaf, laughs.

3.88 EXT. ROYAL VICTORIA DOCK  NIGHT, LATER

Jaden stands there alone. It's getting cold.

Jaden pulls out his gun and shoots himself in the head. Dead.

55 | P a g e

3.89 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING

In the kitchen-diner: Austen and Paul at the table.

Paul says a prayer before they eat their corner shop meal.

Austen's hands are together in respect for Paul.

But Paul can't speak. Austen sees his tears, which escape from

behind the barrier of his cracked hands like eager jewels.

Austen gets up and hugs his father with all his life.

3.90 INT. E3 COUNCIL HOUSE  EVENING

Not remotely resembling Jaden, Austen gets on with his

HOMEWORK

SNAP CUT TO BLACK

56 | P a g e

BLACK

SUPER

Then:

FADE IN ON

4.91 INT. COUNTRY HOME  DAY

Apparently mild mannered URI (40s) writes on his desktop. He

is dressed like an accountant: conservative but efficient.

His blue stocking, home counties WIFE enters with a tray of

tea. She puts the tray down and passes Uri a cup of tea.

Clicking off the Word Window on which he's working on his

computer quickly, he responds with a nondescript smile.

She kisses his forehead and exits the room.

Uri re-opens the Window on his computer. He looks out of the

window. Uri is living with something that can't be lived with.

He swigs from a bottle of JD that he retrieves from a drawer.

He turns back to the computer, reads what he's written.

4.92 INT. RESEARCH ROOM, FACILITY  DAY

Uri nods to moustachioed Thug#1, who is stretching as if he

has pulled a muscle. Shaved headed Thug#2 pulls a face.

57 | P a g e

Uri then goes back to reading his novel.

Thug#2 almost smiles  almost. Not a face made for smiling.

Thug#1 works out the tension in the pulled muscle. He then

PUNCHES

NICHOLAS (30s)  a man tied naked to an old chair.

Nicholas is a mass of cuts, sores, burns and untreated wounds.

He is filthy and unshaven. He is delirious with agony.

Nicholas barely reacts to the blow  he's too far gone.

Nicholas tries to open a swollen bloodshot eye. He can't.

Uri nods to Thug#1 again; but now Thug#1 pulls his blood

soiled rubber gloves off. He goes to put a new pair on.

Uri puts his book down and pulls an exasperated face.

Thug#2 steps in, hungry for exercise.

Thug#2 starts to beat Nicholas up. He has the powerful, fluid

movements of a prize fighter. He treats this as a workout.

Thug#1 looks outraged, as if this is against union rules.

Thug#2 works Nicholas expertly, and with professional care.

This is getting them nowhere. Uri looks at Nicholas' pulped

face  at the new damage that Thug#2 has done. Pointless.

Thug#2 stands back, waits.

58 | P a g e

Uri stands, goes to a cabinet and pulls out a set of surgical

implements. He puts a pair of rubber sanitary gloves on. He

lays out the implements on a metal table beside Nicholas.

He goes to work.

4.93 INT. ARTIST STUDIO  DAY

ELLE (30's) draws a female nude in white pastel on black

paper. The drawing is as exquisite as she is, if that's

possible. Elle is the kind of woman that men will do anything

for - the kind of unforgettable beauty you see very rarely.

Elle takes extreme care with the drawing. Her attention to it

and involvement with it is absolute. She is alone in the

studio, which contains other drawings and simple furnature.

The SOUNDS of Uri torturing Nicholas OVER are in extreme,

hideous contrast to the beauty of Elle and her drawings.

The contours of Elle's face and the fine lines and moments of

shade in her drawing. The sounds of unimaginable suffering.

Five minutes of drawing. Five minutes of Nicholas' screams.

Then the SOUND of Uri dropping an implement and cursing.

The Thugs mumbling.

CUT TO BLACK

A heart PULSE falters, and then stops.

An electrocardiograph flat line SOUND.

A beat, then

UP ON

4.94 INT. RESEARCH ROOM, FACILITY  DAY

Uri stands back. There is blood all over his rubber gloves and

some on his apron. He looks at Nicholas, feels his pulse.

Nicholas is dead.

4.95 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - DAY

Uri sits at a huge, polished oak business meeting table. He is

now dressed in a business shirt, tie and three-piece suit. But

a louche handkerchief in his breast pocket adds a touch of

flare to his sombre ensemble. Uri is somewhat frustrated.

59 | P a g e

Three other suits are at the table: BOOTHY (50s), the boss,

SILK (40s), #2, and PARKER (30s), #3. All but Parker are

middle class and business-like. In here, PC efficiency is all.

Silk clears his throat.

Silk makes a note on his iPad.

Boothy looks at Uri as if waiting for an explanation.

The irony of that comment creates a response that emanates

from Boothy and travels round the table hierarchically.

60 | P a g e

The oddness of that causes some rolled eyes around the table.

Boothy studies the information on his laptop. The others

therefore do the same. Uri smartens his suit and shirt cuffs.

Boothy eventually looks up from his laptop.

Boothy ignores Parker almost entirely.

Boothy and Silk seem repulsed; Parker seems fascinated.

61 | P a g e

Boothy looks at Uri. The others look at Uri.

They all look at him. The monster in their midst. Eventually:

It should be funny but somehow it's sick.

62 | P a g e

Silence a beat, then:

Silence a beat, then:

Boothy looks at Uri in a particular way.

4.96 INT. COUNTRY HOME  DAY

In his y-fronts only, Uri stands in his bathroom and scrubs

his hands manically in the sink. His hands are rubbed raw by

the scrubbing. He whimpers as he does this. His body shakes.

4.97 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - CONTINUOUS

Boothy glances at Parker. He doesn't need any help, thank you.

Boothy reads something else on his laptop:

63 | P a g e

Boothy removes his glasses, looks at Uri.

Uri clears his throat.

4.98 INT. ARTIST STUDIO  DAY

The phone rings. Elle leaves her drawing reluctantly, but then

smiles when she answers the phone. She misses her man!

Elle listens to the caring sharing voice on the phone.

64 | P a g e

She listens, then puts her hand to her mouth. Her beautiful

eyes cloud with tears. She starts to buckle and sway. Then she

collapses. There's a certain grace to the way she does it.

Elle drops the phone.

4.99 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - CONTINUOUS

Boothy and Parker laugh at/with Silk. Uri's face is stone.

Silk pulls a `well actually' face. There is some laughter

until Boothy stops laughing and re-focusses on their agenda.

Boothy reads from his laptop again, then removes his glasses.

He looks at Uri and waits. The others do the same.

Uri makes a thirsty gesture. Mildly irritated, Boothy presses

a button on an intercom. It buzzes the other end, then

65 | P a g e

Boothy scratches his head, refocuses. Uri waits.

4.100 INT. COUNTRY HOME  DAY

Dressed like an accountant, Uri writes on his desktop.

Uri looks up, out of the window. He looks at his hands. They

seem so ordinary, so dull, and so average. He drinks more JD.

4.101 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - DAY

Uri accepts the coffee Sharon pours for them all. She puts a

plate of digestives down on the table and leaves the room.

Sharon smiles a response. She closes the door behind her.

Parker reaches out and grabs a digestive, which he eats.

Boothy and Silk grab a biscuit.

Uri sips his coffee. He REACTS.

The coffee is scalding. He has SCALDED his tongue.

66 | P a g e

SMASH CUT TO

4.102 INT. FACILITY  DAY (FLASHBACK)

In the last moments of his life, Nicholas screams and writhes

under the onslaught of agony delivered by Uri with his

surgical instruments. Nicholas is a pulped mess of blood.

4.103 INT. ELLE'S APARTMENT  NIGHT

Elle's face is contorted by grief. She is curled in the foetal

position on the floor. She weeps desperately. She staggers to

her feet. She goes to a built-in wardrobe. She opens his side

of it. His suits and shirts hang in quiet rows. She presses

into them, embraces them, sobbing and screaming her agony.

4.104 INT. COUNTRY HOME  DAY

Uri thinks a moment and then click `Send' with his mouse.

He takes a deep breath.

4.105 EXT. ELLE'S APARTMENT  DAY

Uri gets out of the taxi and pays the driver.

He then turns to face the address. He tries to move naturally,

but his body is stiff with misgiving. He takes a breath to try

to calm himself. He manages to walk to the front of the

apartment block. He starts to walk up the steps to the front

door; but then he retreats. He steps backwards, then begins to

walk away. He can't do it. His hands are shaking. He makes

fists to stop them. He takes another breath, looks up at the

apartment block. He is sick with stress. He forces his limbs

to obey him. He manages to walk back to the steps. He manages

to walk up the steps. Eventually he manages to press the

BUZZER

4.106 INT. ELLE'S APARTMENT  DAY, SAME TIME

Elle hears the door buzzer. She is pale and underweight.

She gets up, walks to the apartment door. She presses the

intercom button with trepidation. Her mouth is dry.

The crackle of electric silence. Nothing.

67 | P a g e

Exasperated, she takes her finger off the button, turns away.

The buzzer sounds again.

Elle curses and turns back to it.

She hesitates, and then presses the answer button.

It's hard to do this. It takes everything that's left of her.

She presses the buzzer door release. The front door opening

sound, OS. Elle turns away from the door. She gathers herself.

She looks at her apartment door. She steps backwards from it,

as if dreading what might be approaching it. Eventually she is

in the middle of the large, open plan room staring at the

door. A shadow is visible under the door. A shape. A man. The

KNOCK

On her door makes her jump. She gathers herself.

She goes to the door. Eventually she opens it.

Uri stands there. He smiles thinly, extends a hand. As she

takes it he looks at his hand. This hand killed her love.

She wants anything but this dull little man in her apartment.

Uri enters. He wipes his feet excessively, over and over.

She closes the door behind him. He looks around.

68 | P a g e

He goes to a piece of art hanging on the wall. A nude.

He shrugs as if worthless. Elle tries to hold it together.

He has trouble meeting her eyes. That unsettles her even more.

He laughs. It sounds unnatural.

Wary of him in the extreme, he gestures to a seat reluctantly.

She sits down opposite him. Her body language is pure defence.

She blinks. He can see the unimaginable depth of her grief.

Uri gets some correspondence out of his briefcase.

He waves the sheets of paper around. She can't even react.

She puts her hand across her slightly swollen belly.

69 | P a g e

She's pregnant. My God. Uri frowns slightly, struggles.

She looks at him with exhausted, beautiful eyes.

He looks at her, looks away. He can't meet her gaze.

Her phone bleeps a message alert. An isolated sound.

He can't speak. Why did he come here? This is impossible.

She gets up, stands, walks away from him. He stands.

She opens the door for him to leave. He wants to die.

He follows her to the door. His hands are shaking.

70 | P a g e

She looks at him. No shit!

A family walking in the hall outside the door draw her

attention. A mother and her two sons. They smile at her.

She tries to smile, closes the door slightly.

Uri is almost hyperventilating by now.

She has to lean against the wall.

4.107 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - DAY

Uri feels his burnt tongue. Boothy, Silk and Parker observe.

71 | P a g e

4.108 INT. ELLE'S APARTMENT  DAY, SAME TIME

Elle stands by the door. She buckles. He wants to help her.

His voice has an unnatural edge to it. It sounds weird.

She starts to laugh hysterically. It's all a joke. Of course.

She stops laughing.

She stares at him, tries to form words.

Her knees give out. He goes to her, helps her.

She pushes him away in panic. He recoils.

72 | P a g e

Another text message bleeps ludicrously from her phone.

She leans again the wall. He shuts the door softly.

He seems to reach a critical mass. Emotion leaves him.

She is incredulous of the use of the word.

Her world has become a nightmare. Nothing is real.

The words don't seem like hers:

Uri almost smiles. Little old me.

As if in a dream she looks around, searching for something.

But she dials. He grabs the phone from her with polite force.

He puts then phone down like a 5 star hotel receptionist.

73 | P a g e

She grabs the phone again and redials. He grabs the phone from

her, this time with slightly more force. She is pushed away.

But he just stands near her, breathing.

He opens his arms slightly, looks at her. The eyes of a child.

He can't say it. Can't say forgiveness, can't say death.

She SUDDENLY grabs an ornament from the dresser near her.

He drops to his knees. Gets ready.

But she has swung and CONNECTED before he has spoken.

He reels from the impact, but she is weak with shock.

She swings again  stronger this time. The blow hurts him.

She changes. Adrenaline kicks in. She starts to pound him with

the ornament, which breaks. Then she grabs a stone stature and

HITS

Him with it. That sends him flying. He grovels on the carpet.

74 | P a g e

She lays into him. He accepts it all. Blow after bloody blow.

After a while she slows, exhausted.

She grabs her belly, grimaces. Uri's face is now pulped.

He means her belly, her unborn child.

She is sobbing, broken, exhausted.

4.109 INT. BOARD ROOM, FACILITY - DAY

Uri looks at Booth, Silk and Parker. Coffee and digestives.

4.110 INT. ELLE'S APARTMENT  DAY

Elle gasps for breath, stares at Uri through tears.

She drops the bloody stone statue. Uri is badly injured now.

She tries to open the door, to haul him out.

75 | P a g e

She grabs the stone statue again and SWINGS.

Primal, she SCREAMS at him as she does it, and now the statue

CONNECTS

Uri is thrown sideways by the adrenal force of the blow.

He falls on the expensive carpet, barely conscious.

He glimpses a WHITE feather displayed as an ornament among

other artefacts in a lit, glass fronted display cabinet.

Elle drops the stone statue again, stumbles away.

Uri begins to crawl towards the door. Leaves a trail of blood.

He reaches the door, grabs it with a bloody hand as we

CUT TO

4.111 INT. FACILITY  DAY

His face scarred, Uri sits among the instruments of torture.

Done thinking, he suddenly snaps his rubber gloves on.

Better get to it.

76 | P a g e

BLACK

SUPER

FADE IN ON

5.112 EXT. SOUTH LONDON STREET  NIGHT

In urban winter darkness a hoodie walks down an alley. He uses

the deep shadows to conceal himself. He scopes out the back of

the houses he walks past, as if looking for an opportunity.

A radio advert ends OVER:

As the VO ends there is the sound of drinking glasses knocking

together in a busy pub, then an inane radio ad jingle, then:

5.113 INT. RADIO STATION  DJ BOOTH  NIGHT

77 | P a g e

The hoodie climbs over the back fence of a house. He then

proceeds up the garden  again hugging the shadows for cover.

78 | P a g e

The hoodie chooses a ground floor window. He jemmies it open.

79 | P a g e

The hoodie climbs through the window he has jemmied open.

His voice dissolves and fades away as we

CUT TO

5.114 INT. SHONA'S HOME, BEDROOM  NIGHT

SHONA (20s, black) is awoken by a sound  the dull clunk of

something giving under strain. She lifts her head up, listens.

Another clunk, but this followed by other sounds downstairs.

Shona is quickly out of bed, standing. She moves in a way that

suggests combat training: with controlled power and assurance.

She is not afraid.

5.115 INT. SHONA'S HOME, KITCHEN - NIGHT

CALEB (20s, white) breaks in through the kitchen window. He's

young and hooded. His thin face is haunted by addiction.

Caleb climbs through the window he has just jemmied open. He

stands in the kitchen a moment, listening. He hears nothing.

80 | P a g e

He starts to move quietly through the kitchen towards the

5.116 INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Caleb enters. He looks around, sees the usual living room

stuff: a settee, some ornaments, a TV and iPod and iPod dock;

a shelf bearing a few ornaments  OK, but Caleb wants more.

What Caleb doesn't seem to see are the mantelpiece photos of

Corporal Shona smiling with her Para mates in Afghanistan.

Caleb turns and heads towards the door. He goes out into the

5.117 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Caleb emerges from the living room.

CRACK

A fist connects with his jaw, sending him staggering.

CRACK, CRACK

Another two blows  a fist and a kick. Caleb sprawls, and then

manages to stand as Shona attacks him. She moves fast and with

focus  a shape in the darkness moving very fast. Caleb lashes

out with his right fist. He misses. She lands another two

punches to his neck and face. He yells and lashes out again.

This time he connects with the side of her head. She goes

sprawling. He dives towards her and pounds her with his fists.

She fights him: the focussed power of a trained soldier; but

he's too strong and doesn't seem to feel blows that should be

causing him a lot of pain. He PUNCHES her in the head twice.

She goes still.

Caleb now pulls the SILENCED GUN he's been trying to get his

hands on throughout the fight from his jacket pocket. He

stands, gasping for breath. He aims the gun at her.

She just maintains her guard, balled up on the floor.

81 | P a g e

She looks up at him. Her evulsion is obvious.

He gestures up with the gun. Slowly, carefully, she stands.

Shona could be a statue.

Caleb still points his gun at her. He looks at her. Nice.

Keeping his gun on her, Caleb turns a lamp on. He sees her:

average height but athletic, powerful: attractive, damaged.

He comes closer to her, examines her  but keeps his distance.

She seems calm, but he sees the storm beneath the surface.

All that moves is her eyes: she watches the gun  nothing

else. Caleb moves the gun deliberately, making her eyes move.

He moves the gun erratically. He can't outpace her eyes.

82 | P a g e

Still her eyes on the gun. Suddenly annoyed, he

LASHES OUT

He goes to hit her in the face with his gun but she ducks. He

swings at her again, and again she ducks. She assumes a combat

position: fists up, body ready again. She looks at his eyes.

Fighting some inner battle, she just waits for his next move.

He's impressed, but suddenly he's bored by this game.

He aims the gun at her head.

He starts to squeeze the trigger. She doesn't move.

He aims the gun at her left shoulder and

SHOOTS HER

The bullet NICKS shoulder. It's just a flesh wound  but

enough to shut her up and make her drop to her knees in AGONY.

He stands over her, looks down at the booty. She grabs her

left shoulder with her right hand and squeezes. The pain makes

her cry out, but she immediately bites her lip silent.

83 | P a g e

He looks away from her, sees the photographs on the mantle:

Shona the soldier with her squaddie buddies in Afghanistan.

He looks at her, waits. She grimaces in controlled agony.

Losing it, he suddenly goes to her, grabs her and drags her to

the settee. He throws her on it. The pain makes her wince. She

muffles her scream with pride. She now knows he is psychotic.

He points his gun at her head. She shakes her head no.

He glances at the photographs again, grins.

She just looks at him through the fog of bloody agony.

84 | P a g e

He removes his jacket, and then the hoodie he wears beneath

it. She can see his prison tats and scars on his neck. She can

see the injection marks on his dirty, skinny forearms.

She won't meet his eyes. ON her eyes in ECU:

The SOUNDS of war until

He jabs the gun into her crotch, leans close to her.

She looks him in the eyes. She sees everything that's wrong.

He grins, looks at her crotch and licks his lips.

Her eyes are glass. She closes them to make it all go away.

She opens her eyes. The SOUNDS of war. Her war. Her hell.

Backing towards the door he looks and points his gun at her.

85 | P a g e

He doesn't trust her, but he's going to take a chance.

He heads out of the room quickly and goes into the

5.118 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Caleb goes through cupboards - fast.

Going from cupboard to cupboard, he sees the usual food and

crockery etc. In one cupboard he sees bottle of prescription

pills: benzodiazepine, diazepam, and methylphenidate.

He grabs a bottle of benzodiazepine and goes back into the

5.119 INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Reading the bottle label he doesn't notice that she has gone

for a brief moment. But when he does, he throws the bottle

aside and starts moving. He runs out of the room and heads

5.120 INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT

Caleb runs up the stairs onto the landing, his gun up.

He hears a noise from the

5.121 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

He runs in, sees her trying to make a call on her mobile. With

his peripheral vision and for the briefest moment he sees a

WHITE feather on the dresser beside her bed. Without stopping

he rushes her, as she desperately thumbs the buttons. He

SMASHES the phone from her hand and shoves her. But she

manages to keep on her feet and run out of the room. He

86 | P a g e

SHOOTS

The bullet THUDS into the wall by her as she sprints onto the

5.122 INT. LANDING - NIGHT

Shona emerges from the bedroom and rushes down the stairs, her

left hand holding her wounded and bleeding right shoulder.

Caleb runs down the stairs after her.

DOWNSTAIRS

Shona sprints full speed into the

5.123 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

She goes to a drawer, rips it open. She grabs a knife and

turns to face him just as he reaches her. His face contorted,

he CRAMS his gun into her face as she SLASHES at him

CUTTING HIM

Caleb staggers backwards, his face pouring blood.

Caleb points the gun at her. She freezes. He indicates drop

the knife with the gun while he holds his cut, bleeding face.

She puts the knife down. Her eyes never leave his gun.

Shocked by the CUT on his face he aims his gun at her head.

She means shoot her.

87 | P a g e

His finger squeezes the

TRIGGER

Tighter and tighter. The trigger starts to move. But then she

SMILES AT HIM

He stops, thrown by her smile.

She still smiles at him.

He shoves the gun at her. But she keeps smiling. Bizarre.

But she won't stop. He lunges at her, swipes with the gun.

She lashes out at him with her fist  HITS his face.

He staggers backwards. He's had enough.

He aims the gun at her head again, sure and steady.

She stops smiling.

She drops her guard, stands very still, waiting. The bleeding

gunshot wound in her shoulder is draining the life from her.

They look at each other a moment, breathing hard.

She looks away from him, disgusted.

88 | P a g e

She holds his eyes defiantly, and then she moves.

5.124 INT. KITCHEN  LATER, NIGHT

Caleb eats a cheese sandwich. His gun is on the kitchen table

near his right hand. Shona sits opposite him; she's in bad

shape: he shoulder wound is pulling her down fast. She holds a

kitchen towel against it, which is SOAKED in dark red blood.

Caleb watches her.

He eats a while. She won't even look at him.

He eats, watches her, and waits.

89 | P a g e

He eats, watches her, and waits. She's bleeding to death.

She closes her eyes.

ON Shona: SOUNDS of an explosion, shouting, and Shona

screaming `Sandy!' followed by automatic weapons firing.

This BUILDS until Shona's eyes suddenly OPEN.

He breaks down in a fit of laughter.

He finishes the sandwich, wipes his hands on the chair.

He looks at her body.

He laughs again, and then suddenly goes very serious.

She fights for control. She's losing the battle.

Caleb suddenly stands, pushing the chair back. The sudden

SOUND of the chair scraping on the floor makes her start.

He goes to the medicine cupboard, gets her drugs out.

90 | P a g e

He grabs various drugs and dumps them on the table in front of

her. Then fills a glass with tap water and gives her that.

She doesn't move.

Irritated, he pours DOZENS of pills from various bottles out,

savagely, and CRAMS them into her mouth. He then forces the

glass of water to her lips and makes her take the pills.

She gasps for air. He stands over her.

He goes round the table to her. The drugs start to hit her:

she fights them. She's shaking and sweating with pain from her

wounded shoulder. He caresses her cheek with his gun.

He grabs her right hand and puts it on his crotch.

91 | P a g e

The drug OD begins to win the war inside Shona.

She jerks her hand away. It has to be now.

He GRABS her by the hair, starts forcing her head towards his

crotch. With his gun hand he starts to unzip his fly.

As he goes to pull his pecker out she stands. As if she's had

enough of the game, she looks at him like a bug, dead already.

Lightning fast, she POUNDS her index and first fingers into

his EYES, blinding him. At the same time she snap PUNCHES his

THROAT, collapsing his oesophagus completely. In less than a

second, Caleb goes from being in charge to being a grovelling,

screaming piece of crap on the floor at her feet. But now he

FIRES

His gun wildly up at her  anywhere. Succumbing to the drugs

she dodges as the bullets THUD into the walls and furnature.

She KICKS at his gun hand. It's inaccurate because now the

drugs are overwhelming her. He keeps hold of the gun

screaming and gasping for breath he will never draw again.

A bullet SLAMS into the wall beside her. Reluctantly she

Forces herself to FOCUS, to hold the drugs back as she

92 | P a g e

SMASHES

The back of his neck with the side of her fist. A loud

CRACK

Caleb stops moving, instantly DEAD.

Shona stands there breathing hard, trying to focus.

And then, slowly, surely the tears come. The drugs win.

A radio ad, OVER

The sounds of polite kissing and an inane radio ad jingle as

Shona collapses. As she loses consciousness, BLACKNESS and

the SOUND of distant, hallucinatory police SIRENS as we

DISSOLVE TO

5.125 INT. POLICE HOLDING CELL  DAY

The radio ad jingle and bullshit fades to SILENCE as

A year later: Shona sits looking at CAMERA. She is handcuffed.

Her face bears the scars. Her eyes in ECU: they are dark,

damaged, strong and sad. She is searching for our affirmation.

Slowly, surely we

FADE TO BLACK

END CREDITS

93 | P a g e

