<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

CAST AWAY

FADE IN:

EXT.  MARFA, TEXAS - 1993 - WIDE - DAY

The Texas plains, horizon to horizon, nothing but the browns

and ochres of earth and the blue and violet of the sky.  The

sheer scope of it sinks in:  the blank slate of nature, the

absence of man.  On the screen superimpose:

CREDITS BEGIN.

A plume of dust comes into frame.  The dust is from a TRUCK,

orange and white and violet, with "FedEx" blazoned across the

side.

The truck turns into a collection of ramshackle World War II

era Quonset huts and outbuildings.  Around the outbuildings

are large sculptures of wood and metal.

EXT.  QUONSET HUT - DAY

The door is opened by a WOMAN in her late twenties.  Hair

pulled back, casual, an artist.  She hands the DRIVER a FedEx

BOX which is decorated with a drawing of two ANGEL WINGS.

The Driver has a hand-held computer; a portable printer

dangles from his belt.

The Driver scans the package with his hand-held computer,

prints out a label and sticks it on the Box, ready to go.

But something on the box catches her eye.  She wants it back.

He glances at his watch.  She draws RINGS around the Wings,

uniting them.  She gives the box to the Driver, then hands

him a cup of coffee.  They've done this before.

He takes a sip of the coffee, then runs for the truck.  He

jumps in and heads back onto the plains.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICE - MIDLAND/ODESSA - NIGHT - HOURS LATER

The Driver jams the distinctive Angel Wing Box on top of a

dolly and loads it into a CONTAINER with clear plastic sides.

A female Loader slaps a large bar code label on the

container, scans it, then pulls the container across a belt

of rollers onto a larger truck.  The doors of the truck

close.  The latch slams down.

A forklift hoists the container to the cargo doors of a 737.

EXT.  MEMPHIS AIRPORT SUPERHUB - NIGHT

The 737 lands.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER

One of a seemingly endless line of FedEx planes, our 737

taxis to a gate at the FedEx SUPERHUB.  The Hub is a vast

living organism -- loud, complex, overwhelming, as much a

symbol of modern life as was the factory in Modern Times.

Five thousand people work in a frenzy of interconnected

activity inside three vast hangers brightly lit.  Hundreds of

forklifts and cargo-pullers dart about, their headlights

crisscrossing like a laser show.

Loaders quickly roll the container onto a FORKLIFT.

INT.  MEMPHIS SUPERHUB - NIGHT

The forklift speeds inside one of the hangers to a LOADING

BELT, where our Box is spilled into a Mississippi River of

packages, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS of them, all shapes and

sizes, from shoe boxes to engine blocks.  Large mechanical

arms divert the immense flow of Workers at dozens of

stations.  The packages surge and move.

The Workers place the packages label-side-up on new belts,

where they're scanned by laser readers.  Picking up speed our

Box is shunted across the acres of interlocking belts.

The Box ends up in a much larger CONTAINER labeled CDG.

EXT.  MEMPHIS SUPERHUB - NIGHT

A forklift lifts the Container to a door on a giant MD-11.

INT.  GLOBAL OPERATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

A jumbled room jammed with computers and dominated by a HUGE

WALL GRAPHIC that charts hundreds of airplanes.  An Operator

moves a yellow strip labeled Jumbo 12 across the board.

EXT.  CHARLES DE GAULLE AIRPORT - DAY

SERIES OF SHOTS

The giant place touches down in Paris.  The Angel Wing Box

moves quickly on another belt and disappears into another

CONTAINER, which is loaded onto still another AIRPLANE.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG AIRPORT, RUSSIA - NIGHT

The plane lands.  The container is unloaded down a belt.  We

see our Angel Box.  Directly in front of it is a DENTED BOX.

INT.  ST. PETERSBURG FEDEX OFFICE, RUSSIA

SERIES OF SHOTS

Night.  The manic activity has come to a dead stop.  Our two

Boxes sit on a table in a corner not far from a small

Christmas tree.

Daylight now.  YURI, a Supervisor, saunters over, picks up

the Angel Box, sees an attractive co-worker, puts it down.

Night again.  A cat walks by the table where our two Boxes

have come to rest.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG FEDEX OFFICE - DAY

A FedEx truck pulls out of the warehouse.  The walls of the

warehouse are covered with graffiti.  The streets are slushy,

the buildings blanketed in snow.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG - DAY

The Driver sits in the truck drinking tea.  He takes a last

sip, sighs, gets out with the Angel Box.  Walks slowly toward

an APARTMENT HOUSE.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG APARTMENT HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

A beautiful young RUSSIAN WOMAN opens the door.  A young

AMERICAN MAN comes up behind her, signs the form and takes

the Angel Box.  We see Christmas decorations inside.  The

woman puts her arms around him as the door closes.

We stay with the Driver as he ambles back toward the truck.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

The Driver has just delivered the Dented Box to ALEKSEI,

Russian Businessman, who closes the door of a Czarist-era

building.  Aleksei checks his watch, picks up the phone.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - MANILA - DAY

CHUCK NOLAND, early thirties, walks along a line of brightly

colored jitneys, each bearing the FedEx logo.  With him is a

Filipino FedEx SUPERVISOR wearing a guayabera.  Chuck

glistens with a thin layer of sweat.

His beeper goes off.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - MANILA - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck is on the phone.

Chuck hesitates for a moment, then looks at his watch.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Strapped into the jump seat behind the pilots, Chuck sleeps

with a mask over his eyes.  On his lap are some travel

brochures.  We see sailboats, we see the Florida keys.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG FEDEX OFFICES - DAY

Christmas in Russia.  Snow everywhere.  Brightly colored

lights.  Chucks gets out of a Volga with Aleksei.  He has a

bag over his shoulder, the dented package under one arm.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - DAY

The staff has assembled near the loading dock.  Yuri the

station manager stands in front, occasionally catching the

eye of the attractive woman.  Chuck displays the FedEx box.

There's a muttered chorus of answers.

Chuck leads his team through the sorting area.  Yuri squeezes

right next to him, ostentatiously carrying a clipboard.

Chuck stops.

He hefts the package, as if trying to guess what's inside.

The Sorter shoves the table against the wall.  Yuri says

something to the Translator.

Wrong answer:  Chuck glances sharply at Yuri.  Aleksei

appears with a cellular phone.

Chuck takes the phone, opening his BAG as he does so.

He pulls out a set of blueprints and tacks them to a bulletin

board as he talks.

Chuck keeps an eye on what is going on in the warehouse.

Then he notices something over by one of the trucks.

He hangs up the phone.  He turns to the crew.

The crew disperses back to work.  Chuck and Aleksei walk

toward the office.  They've done this before.  Chuck lets a

corner of his command persona slip.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

A FedEx truck pulls out of the FedEx office.  Chuck is

inside.  He notices the graffiti on the walls.

INT.  TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck rides next to LEV, the driver, a serious sort.  The

Translator squats on some boxes between them, trying to keep

his balance.

The Translator and Lev exchange a few words.

Chuck looks at Lev with respect.  Right answer.

The Translator asks Lev, who looks at him as if he is crazy,

then snorts an answer.  The Translator blushes.

Chuck grins.  Lev shrugs and says something else.

EXT.  HOTEL - ST. PETERSBURG

A weary Chuck enters the hotel.  In the sky above him we see

the Northern Lights.  He doesn't even look up.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck is watching CNN on the television, working his

PowerBook, and holding the phone.

He hangs up.

Just then the lights go off.  For a moment everything is

darkness.  Then a small light switches on.  Chuck has a

headlamp on.

He gets up, heads into the bathroom.  We stay in the bedroom.

After only a moment, the light reemerges.  It heads over to

his bag.  We go with it.

Chuck takes out a roll of toilet paper.  The guy is prepared

for anything.  He goes into the bathroom, closes the door.

The lights come back on just as the phone rings.

We hear scuffling sounds on the other side of the door.

Chuck charges out, holding up his pants.

Grabs the phone.

He waits.  We hear an ANSWERING MACHINE.

This is not what Chuck wanted to hear.

He's stumbling over whether to say I love you.

He gently hangs up the phone.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - SERIES OF SHOTS

A surprised Yuri stands with the attractive assistant as

Chuck takes his clipboard away.

An even more surprised Lev stands by his truck as Chuck hands

the clipboard to him.

Chuck and the loaders clean off the graffiti.

Working alongside the sorters as the packages come in, Chuck

points out how to organize the inflow.

Chuck and Lev go over large maps of St. Petersburg with the

drivers.

INT.  FEDEX WAREHOUSE - ST. PETERSBURG - WEEK LATER

A big semi is being loaded with outgoing packages for the

airport run.  Aleksei, Chuck, Lev and the office executives

watch as containers are rolled on.

Chucks looks at the clock.

Aleksei points at the big semi.

The pressure in on.  Chuck looks around at his team.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - MINUTES LATER

The last truck rolls in.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG

The last truck enters and loading dock.  A few loaders move

toward it.  The executives all stand and watch.  But not

Chuck.  He's hands on.

He heads toward the truck and begins pulling off packages.

All the other executives follow him.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - MINUTES LATER

Led by Chuck, who works like a man possessed, they sort the

packages.

He gestures at a closed container.

Chuck is everywhere, setting the example.  The whole office

is energized, working together.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - MINUTES LATER

They load the last container on the waiting truck.  Chuck

pounds the truck on the side.  Go.

The truck roars out of the loading dock.

Everyone takes a breath.  They are happy, proud.

They've heard this before.  Lev holds up his hand just before

Chuck does.

This makes Chuck smile.

EXT.  CHARLES DE GAULLE AIRPORT - DAY

A FedEx MD-11 is being loaded with huge containers of

freight.  Chuck goes up the gangway next to the forklifts.

INT.  MD-11 - MOMENTS LATER

The pilots -- JACK and GWEN -- are going down their check

lists.  Chuck sticks his head in the cockpit.

Chuck hands Jack and Gwen small packages.

Another FedEx Road Warrior named STAN gets on.  He and Chuck

are obviously old hands at this.

The two of them strap in.

He's finished a tough job.  He's relaxed and on his way home.

But Stan's his boss, and Stan's got bad news.

Chuck can't believe it.

The plane begins to taxi.

EXT.  CHARLES DE GAULLE AIRPORT - NIGHT

The MD-11 takes off.

INT.  MD-11 - NIGHT

Chuck is focused on his PowerBook with the screen away from

us, Stan is doing tai chi amidst the FedEx containers.  It

feels a little surreal, all those containers surrounding

them.

Stan comes over, looks at the image on the computer.  It's a

sailboat with some technical specifications under it.

Chuck doesn't look up.

Stan is so outrageous, Chuck can't help but laugh.

But apparently it is.

Chuck reaches in his pocket, pulls out a bill.

Chuck closes the PowerBook.

They both take out their Valium -- the price they pay for

being such road warriors.

Stan puts on his Walkman.

It's their ritual.  Chuck puts headphones from his Walkman

over his ears, puts a mask over his eyes and leans his head

back onto the headrest.  We hear the Rolling Stones.

EXT.  MEMPHIS AIRPORT - NIGHT - WIDE

The MD-11 arrives at its gate.  The cargo doors open.

Forklifts and a gangway roll up to the side.

INT.  MD-11 - NIGHT

Stan stands smiling over Chuck.

Chuck pulls off the mask, takes out the earplugs.  He manages

a groggy grin.

INT.  SUPERHUB - NIGHT

Chuck walks through the extraordinary nexus of speeding

packages that intersect in intricate paths above and around

him.  This is the beating center of the FedEx world, the

crossroads, the deep core where everything connects.  In his

still-drugged state it all seems weirdly psychedelic.  A

Christmas tree goes by, then a huge plastic Santa Claus, both

with shipping labels.

EXT.  CHICKASAW GARDENS - MEMPHIS - NIGHT

Chuck's car pulls into the driveway of a small cottage in an

older Memphis neighborhood.  The radio is playing the news.

INT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck drops his briefcase and his bag.  The place is a jumble

of clothes, papers, books, etc.  In the living room is a tank

of tropical fish.  The water looks a little green.  No

bubbles are coming from the filter.

Uh oh.

Chuck walks to the tank.  He tightens a piece of tape that

holds the power cord onto the filter, taps the filter with

his finger, once, twice...the bubbles start again.

But for a couple of fish floating on top of the tank it's too

late.

Chuck gets out his scoop and slowly skims them off.

EXT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - BACK YARD

Chuck digs a small hole in the back yard with a large kitchen

spoon.

Drops the dead fish in.

Fills the hole.

INT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - LATER

The CD is playing.  Chuck lies in bed, switches on the TV.

This is no good.  He doesn't care how late it is, he's going

to find Kelly.

EXT.  MEMPHIS - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck drives in his car through the streets of Memphis.

EXT.  UNIVERSITY - NIGHT

Chuck pulls up to a lab building at Memphis State.

INT.  LAB - NIGHT

Two doctoral candidates are playing Doom on their computers

when Chuck walks in.

One of them gestures toward a door.

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Chuck makes his way in the semi-darkness past rack after rack

of specimens in bottles.

Ahead of him we see the flashing green light of a Xerox

machine.

INT.  XEROX ROOM

The light goes off.  KELLY leans over the machine, bangs on

it.

Surprised, Kelly turns to greet Chuck.

She leaps into his arms.

Kelly looks over at the Xerox.

He lifts up the cover.

He pries up one feeder, then another.

But Chuck doesn't want to talk.  He's focused on the machine.

She pulls him out of the machine.  He has toner on his

fingers.

He suddenly looks really tired.

He turns to the Xerox in frustration.

She looks at him.

INT.  KELLY'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

A tiny cubicle with a door.  She closes it, takes some paper

towels out of the desk, wipes his fingers.

She licks the last bit of toner off his fingers.

She ignores that, stays with the fantasy.

And she comes closer to him.

She's really close now.

They squiggle themselves onto the desk.

INT.  LAB - NIGHT

Someone kicks the door shut.  Now the figures are in

silhouette, lit by the light in the office.

And then the light goes out.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - NEXT MORNING

A nondescript office park near the airport.  No sign.

Chuck's car screeches into the parking lot.  He jumps out,

glances at this watch, and heads for the building at a run.

INT.  EXECUTIVE CONFERENCE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

A large room dominated by an animated MAP OF THE WORLD.

Lights at various locations blink and flash.  Above the map

are a large Sign saying "Here Today, Gone Tomorrow" and two

huge digital Clocks -- one keeping time, the other a

countdown clock for that day's package sort at the SuperHub.

The operations team of FedEx sits around a large table.  Each

has on a headset.  BECCA TWIGG, the business-like senior vice

president of Operations, addresses questions to a man --

COLIN PARKER-BOWLES, the European operations manager -- on a

LARGE TV SCREEN in front of her.  "London" is superimposed on

the screen.

Colin continues as Chuck, out of breath, slips under the

screen and heads for the one remaining vacant seat -- across

from Stan.  Next to Stan is MAYNARD GRAHAM, an MBA systems

man.  Becca addresses a question over to Stan.

Colin disappears.  A red light goes on.  Becca pushes a

button.  Another face comes on the screen.  "Oakland" appears

under the face.

She turns pointedly to Chuck.

Chuck swallows nervously, tries to talk matter-of-factly.

The process is being ripped out of Chuck's hands.  He

struggles to get an answer.

Stan is doing his best to back up Chuck.

Maynard knows how to go for the jugular.  Everyone looks at

Chuck.

Everyone looks at Chuck.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY - LATE THAT AFTERNOON

Chuck lugs a big package up to the door, knocks on it.  Kelly

opens the door.

INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY

Chuck enters as they keep talking.  Her house is cozy but

also where she works.  There's a computer, specimen jars, and

some terrariums with frogs inside.  A Christmas tree with

packages under it.

In the b.g. one of the packages by the Christmas tree is

starting to shake on its own.

Chuck's attention goes to the tree.

The package turns over, something darts out.  It's a puppy,

with a bow around its neck.

Chuck bends down to see the puppy.

A baby, she wants to say, but that's going a little fast so

she catches herself.  Chuck picks the puppy up.

Chuck hands over his present.

Kelly opens Chuck's present -- a very large box.

It's a piece of luggage.

She can't believe it.  It's the exact opposite of what she

wanted.

Chuck is flummoxed.  Women read so much into things.

Chuck's beeper goes off.

He checks the number.

She nods.  What to do?

Chuck picks up the puppy.

Kelly is having one of those moments when everything comes

clear.

He hands her the puppy.

This is not a happy woman he is leaving behind.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - HOUSE LATER

It's dark now.  Chuck returns.  The stars are putting on an

amazing show, but he doesn't notice as he heads for the door.

INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER

Chuck enters.  The tree and the presents under it are gone.

No answer, nothing but the sound of Jango, who begins yelping

in the kitchen.

INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck picks up Jango, who is barricaded in the kitchen with

some food, some water, and some wet newspapers.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER

Holding Jango, Chuck walks out into the back yard.

A fire still smolders.  The packages have burned.  The tree

is a blackened mess.

Chuck stares at it.

EXT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - NEXT MORNING

Chuck gets into his car, puts Jango on the front seat next to

him.  Pulls out of the driveway.

EXT.  ARKANSAS HIGHWAY - DAY

Chuck is in his car, with the dog on his lap.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY

Chuck's car drives up to a typical Arkansas farm house.  His

MOM is setting some Christmas tree lights around the door.

Chuck gets out of the car.  There's a large wet spot on the

front of his pants.

Chuck displays the puppy.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - SHED - DAY

Chuck works on an old tractor in the shed.  Some small legs

appear in his vision, then a small face.  This is AMANDA, his

niece.

INT.  FARM HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Around the table are Chuck's brother ROGER, his wife MARY,

Amanda, and her TWO BROTHERS.  Mom brings in the turkey,

places it on the table, sits down.  They all hold hands and

bow their heads.

Chuck hesitates just a moment.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - LATER THAT DAY

The children burst out the door, shrieking, chased by Jango.

INT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY

The grown-ups are cleaning up after Christmas dinner.  The

scene moves between the table, the kitchen counter, and the

refrigerator.  It's an old-fashioned kitchen, simply

furnished.

This is an old, sore subject.

He drops the turkey giblets into the trash.

Chuck can't believe this.

Mom goes to the freezer and takes out some frozen

strawberries.

Mom mashes the block of frozen strawberries with a fork to

separate the strawberries from the ice.

Roger grins at him.  This is just how they are.

They all sit down.  Mom brings the slushy frozen strawberries

to the table, squirts on some Reddi-whip.  Looks pointedly at

Chuck.

Not a timely topic with Chuck.

Chuck takes a bite, winces a little as the cold strawberries

hit his teeth.

EXT.  MOM'S HOUSE - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck fixes the drain pipe while Mom prunes the rose bushes

around the porch.

She looks pointedly at Chuck.

Chuck finishes the drain pipe.  Gives it a thunk with his

finger.

INT.  FARM HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

In his boyhood room, we see Chuck's laptop, which is hooked

up to the internet FedEx homepage.  All around him are models

of boats and planes, maps, pictures of far-off places.  The

room of a boy who always fantasized about getting away.

Chuck is beside it, slumped down on the desk.  Asleep.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY

His mom waves to him as Chuck drives away.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICE - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck enters his office, on the go.  His assistant LESLIE is

waiting for him.

She nods, used to this.

Stan enters.

INT.  OPERATIONS ROOM - MINUTES LATER

Chuck, Leslie, Stan and another executive from the meeting

named DICK are gathered around the TV screen.  A squawk box

is on the table.

The box squawks.  The TV screen rolls an imperfect image.

A Technician is fiddling with the TV set.

The squawk box hums and crackles.  Nothing.  Chuck turns to

the Technician.

Chuck turns to Leslie.

Chuck looks over at Stan.

And Stan is impressed.

EXT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - DAY

Chuck leaves with his bag over his shoulder and the puppy

under his arm.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY - MINUTES LATER

Kelly opens the door.  Chuck is there with the puppy.

Kelly can't stay mad.

She's half-laughing, half-wanting-to-cry.

And then it hits her.

She stares at him for a long moment, then at the puppy.

He hands her the dog.

She kisses the puppy.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Chuck enters the cockpit, where two different pilots are

going through their checklists.  Chuck repeats his familiar

patter.

Chuck settles into his seat.

Al has an Australian accent.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT - HOURS LATER

Settled into the jump seat, Chuck finishes up his notes on

his PowerBook and begins his flight ritual.

He puts in his ear plugs and takes out his Valium.  He

swallows one, then thinks, and swallows two more.  Then he

turns on his Walkman to the Rolling Stones, puts the mask

over his eyes, and, as usual, goes to sleep.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

The plane is SHAKING badly.  HEAR frantic, garbled radio

talk.  Chuck stirs, struggles to his feet, drowsy and

drugged.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - CHUCK'S POV

Everything is hazy, out of focus, as it was in his earlier

drugged condition.  But this is real haze.  SMOKE.  And the

cabin also TWISTS and TILTS.

Chuck tries to steady himself against the wall.  This is

nightmarish.  Is this really happening?

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - CHUCK'S POV - COCKPIT

The pilots wrestle with the controls.  They have their life

jackets on.  John glances back at Chuck, his face floating in

a cloud of fear.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck struggles to put on his life jacket.  The plane is

VIBRATING VIOLENTLY.  He can't get the straps straight.  He

is KNOCKED against one wall, then another, then to the floor.

Chuck tries to blow on the mouth tubes for his life jacket.

Can't do it!  Puff.  Puff.  Shit!  John motions frantically

for Chuck to pull on the automatic inflators on his jacket.

Chuck fumbles for them.

Huge palettes shift and groan, one BREAKS FREE, banging

violently against the side of the plane, spilling out its

boxes.  Then it swings and KNOCKS Chuck on the head!  He goes

down!

INT.  GLOBAL OPERATIONS CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

A CONTROLLER mans the global operations desk.  His SUPERVISOR

stands behind him, sipping some coffee.  The mood is eerily

calm.  An assistant moves Plane Locator Cards on a giant

board.

Another CONTROLLER tracks a giant computer screen.

The signal flashes, but is strangely still compared to the

others, which are moving.

EXT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

The giant plane PLUMMETS down from the sky.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Chuck is semi-conscious and bleeding from the head.  John

pulls the inflators on Chuck's life jacket, which fills with

a WHOOSH!, sending Chuck's arms out to the sides.  Al

struggles with the LIFE RAFT.  It's all blurred, frantic,

terrifying.

EXT.  PACIFIC - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

The plane hits the ocean with a CRASH and a WAVE of water.

INT.  GLOBAL OPERATIONS CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

The Controller is speaking mechanically into the microphone.

EXT.  PACIFIC - NIGHT

Shrouded with fog and surrounded by debris, the tail of the

big plane slowly SINKS beneath the angry, storm-driven waves.

EXT.  PACIFIC - DAY

A life raft is tossed on dark, storm-driven seas.  Inside it,

semi-conscious, Chuck hangs on.

EXT.  PACIFIC - NIGHT

We catch glimpses of the yellow lift raft in the dark as the

storm continues.

EXT.  BEACH - EARLY MORNING

The storm has ended.  Waves lap gently on a beach cut like a

scallop out of a rocky shore.  On the beach we see scattered

FEDEX BOXES.  And we see, face-down, half-buried in sand, a

MAN IN A SUIT and a life jacket.

Chuck.

The tide gently rocks him, laps at his face.  He chokes.

Slowly he gets to his knees.  Vomits seawater, big heaves.

He rolls over, sits down.  Dazed.  Still confused.  Where am

I?  What happened?

Chuck's first instinct is to check the time.  He looks at his

watch, taps it in frustration.

Then he looks around, and we look with him.

CHUCK'S POV - BEACH

The fog has thinned.  We can see palm groves and mangrove

thickets leading back into a thickly wooded valley climbing

up a steep, rocky hillside.  The rocks on the opposite point

end in a barren ridge.  Clouds hide the top of the hill.

ON CHUCK

as he takes in his surroundings.  He licks his lips.  He's

thirsty.  But something he sees is even more important.  We

stay with him as he WALKS.  He comes to a FEDEX PACKAGE in

the sand, picks it up, brushes off the sand, walks farther.

He picks up another package.

EXT.  BEACH - WIDE

Chuck walks down the beach, picking up FedEx packages,

leaving a trail of footprints in the sand.  Ahead of him we

notice a package decorated with ANGEL WINGS.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT MORNING

Chuck has made a neat stack of FedEx boxes under some palm

trees at the rim of the beach.  He examines the Angel Wing

drawing with passing curiosity, then puts it on the stack.

Chuck takes off his life jacket, sits down in the shade,

makes himself comfortable, and waits.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET

Chuck is still waiting.  He's a systems man, and the system

isn't working.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

The full moon shines a ghostly light on the beach.  Trees

cast moon-shadows on the sand.  Chuck seems very, very alone.

We HEAR from the dark thickets a STRANGE NOISE.  Rustling in

the leaves.  Something crashing in the trees, or is it a

wave?  A jolt of adrenaline courses through Chuck's body.  He

lurches to his feet.

We HEAR the noises again.  Chuck edges toward the rocks at

the barb of the hook.  Keeping his eye on the thicket, he

bends down and picks up a stone.  His first weapon.

In the rocks he finds a piece of driftwood.  He picks it up

in his other hand.  He backs between two rocks and stands

facing the thicket, every sense alert.  A cloud passes over

the moon.  The shadow streaks across Chuck's anxious face.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

The morning TIDE is coming in.  We follow the tide as it laps

amidst the rocks and finds Chuck, staring out to sea.  The

empty sea.

But now he is really thirsty.  We WALK with Chuck up the

beach.

Beneath the palms he sees a couple of coconuts.  He picks one

of them up and studies it.  It's heavy, almost the size of a

volleyball.  How to get in it?

He throws it down on a rock.  The coconut just bounces off.

He wedges the coconut between two rocks, then throws a rock

down on it.  It bounces off.  He throws down a bigger rock.

It smashes on the rocks and chips.  Chuck picks up the rock.

OW!  Where the rock had chipped the edge is sharp.  It cuts

him.

The blood stains the rock a bright red.  Chuck sucks on his

finger, then he gets an idea -- the same idea primitive man

first got when he discovered stone tools.

He picks up the rock, test the edge.  Sharp -- really sharp.

He throws another rock down, but it doesn't break.  He picks

up another rock and strikes the first one.  Then again,

harder.  And again.  A large flake shoots off.  This edge is

even sharper.

He has a knife.

OPENING THE COCONUT - SERIES OF SHOTS

Chuck uses the stone knife to saw at the coconut.  No luck.

Chuck clumsily sharpens a stick with the sharp rock.

Chuck brings the sharpened stick down hard on the coconut,

but the stick slides off, sending the coconut rolling away.

Chuck positions the stick, pointed end up, in a hole, then

SLAMS the coconut down hard on it.  Success!  The green nut

of the coconut splits.  The brown inner nut is free!  He

smashes the nut with a rock, but -- OW!  -- he hits his hand!

Chuck licks his fingers, but he is so thirsty there's no more

saliva.  He smashes again.  The shell breaks to smithereens.

Coconut milk splashes everywhere.

Rotating a nut along its axis and carefully moving his

fingers out of the way, he SMASHES the nut again.  The shell

splits!  The precious liquid splashes out.  Left inside is a

swallow or two, which Chuck laps up eagerly.  The milky white

liquid dribbles down his face.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNRISE

Chuck squints at the ocean.  His sunburn is bad -- his lips

are cracked.  A stack of broken coconut shells is beside him.

No one's there -- again.

Clouds scud in front of the sun.  Beyond the reef the waves

are high and churning.  Chuck can see them pound onto the

reef.

This sinks in.  Then Chuck gets an idea.

But even that doesn't give him much hope.

That sinks in.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck sleeps by the coconuts.  The tide is coming in.  Chuck

stirs, gets up, staggers over to a palm tree to relieve

himself.

He stares idly out at the moonlight on the waves.  Then not

so idly.  Something's out there, something floating on the

tide.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck splashes into the gentle surf, reaches the dark object.

It's a body.  Chuck turns it over.  It's Al, one of the

pilots, his face gray and waterlogged and very dead.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck drags the body up on the beach and then collapses,

exhausted.  He sits by it, staring at it.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

Chuck has almost finished a grave in the sand back of the

palm trees.  He's been digging with a piece of driftwood

sharpened with his stone knife.

He drags the body into the pit.  Stares down at it.  That

could be me.

He wants to say more, can't.  He scoops some sand over the

body.

He scoops in some more sand.  It's eerily like burying the

tropical fish in his back yard.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

With a rock Chuck hammers a crude driftwood marker into the

sand.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

As Chuck sits on the beach, he half-sings, half-talks "Yellow

Submarine" very quietly to himself.

He looks over at the deep woods and down to the rocky point.

Comes to a decision.  He takes a drink of coconut, picks up

his club and a coconut, sticks the stone knife in his pants.

He's ready to go.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck climbs over the rocks and disappears out of sight.

He's still half-singing to himself.

EXT.  ISLAND - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck's way is blocked by rocks and jungle.  He hesitates.

He picks up a rock and THROWS IT to scare away all those bad

things.  It crashes into the ferns and palm trees.  He takes

a step into the jungle.

EXT.  JUNGLE - MINUTES LATER

Chuck struggles through a dense thicket beneath a jungle

canopy.  Vines and creepers reach out toward him.  There is

no path, nothing to show him where to go.

EXT.  JUNGLE - HALF HOUR LATER

Chuck climbs through a tangle of vines and ferns.  He takes a

drink from the coconut he is carrying.  The last drink.

He throws away the husk.  He looks up, but the only sunlight

reaching him is dappled from the canopy above him.

EXT.  ISLAND - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck emerges onto a ridge that leads to a summit.  He climbs

across a rocky lava field covered with scrub lichen and low

ferns, soil dark as coffee beans, his way crossed by steep

gullies that cut like dark fingers into the lava.

The lava field narrows, forcing Chuck closer to the sea.  He

passes a series of CAVES, their mouths dark and mysterious

and scary.  He gives them a wide berth.

EXT.  ISLAND - CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

The land narrows to a ledge that stretches across a high

cliff perched over the ocean.  Beyond this rock bridge the

path smoothes out to a summit.

Chuck stares at the narrow bridge, then down at the waves

breaking on the rocks far below.  To get any view, he will

have to cross the bridge.  He's thirsty.  The late afternoon

sun is hot.

Hugging the wall of the cliff, taking each step with great

caution, he sets out across the bridge.

EXT.  ISLAND - CLIFF

Step by step, Chuck negotiates the narrow bridge.  He reaches

a flume of polished basalt which cuts across the ledge like a

slide in a water park -- except this flume ends high above

the waves.  Chuck tries to step across it, can't quite, tries

one foot first, then the other.

He looks back, but that seems even scarier.

He looks down at the ocean beneath him, closes his eyes, and

jumps.  It's only a few feet, but he's breathing hard when he

lands on the other side.  He hugs the rocks, getting his

breath.

EXT.  ISLAND SUMMIT - SUNSET - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck looks to each point on the compass.  He is on an

ISLAND, small, inhospitable, without sign of habitation or

anything human.  On three sides the waves break against

steep, hostile cliffs.  A reef encloses the cove where he

came from.

Chuck stares out to sea in every direction.  Nothing.

The last rays of sun hit his face.  The ocean turns a deep

reddish gold.

EXT.  CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

Going down is even scarier.  It's dusk and the light is flat

and gray.  Chuck stares at the ledge.

Chuck crawls on his hands and knees across the rock bridge.

EXT.  ROCKY SLOPE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck stumbles over the rocks.  The caves look ominous and

primal.

EXT.  EDGE OF JUNGLE - NIGHT

It's getting dark now.  The jungle seems impenetrable, the

dark wood of fable.  Chuck hesitates, then plunges into it.

EXT.  JUNGLE - NIGHT MINUTES LATER

The moon has just begun to rise, casting eerie light into the

jungle.  The shadows reach out to grab Chuck, then real

branches and vines tug at him.  He heads into thick

blackness.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck emerges around the rocks.  He reaches the stack of

familiar FedEx boxes -- Ahh, home!  He's breathing hard, from

both fear and exertion.

With his last strength he opens a coconut on the stick.  He

bangs hard on the shell and gulps down the milk.  He stares

at the stack of FedEx boxes.  What could be inside?  He

reaches out and touches one.

Responsibility gets the better of necessity, and he takes his

hand away.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

Face red from the sun, Chuck hacks at a palm frond with his

stone knife.  He saws the palm frond off near the base,

leaving it about a foot long.

He ties the loose fibers into a sort of circle, then sets it

upon his head.  It looks amazingly like some sort of

primitive cap.

He grabs a couple of FedEx boxes and heads for the beach.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck finishes the P on H E L P, which he has spelled out

with the FedEx boxes on the beach.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY - LATER

Chuck scrambles down a ravine.  He kneels down and feels the

ground.  It is dry, completely dry.

EXT.  LAVA SLOPE - DAY

Chuck traverses the slope, determined to find water.

A FLAT ROCK - LATER

With a puddle of dirty water trapped in a tiny hollow.

Suddenly Chuck flops down into frame.  He tries to scoop up

some water in his hands, but he just splashes it around.  He

licks his fingers.  Then he gets down on his stomach and laps

up the water with his tongue.  Like an animal.

In the bottom of the small depression is some fine mud.  He

rubs it on his reddened face and across his burned lips.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck lies in darkness, his eyes reflecting the moon.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck is drenched in sweat.  He is at the bottom of a hole

six feet deep.  He takes one last dig with the flat stick,

then licks the moist clay that sticks to it.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck breaks open another coconut and gulps down the milky

liquid.  With a stone knife he digs in the shell for some of

the meat, but it's dry and chewy and fibrous.  He spits it

out, then lies back on the sand and stares at the first

stars.  Half sings to himself.

He is desperately thirsty.  Hunger gnaws at him.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY - LATER

Holding a sharpened stick, Chuck wades in the shallows at low

tide, looking for fish.  It's difficult to keep his balance.

Suddenly a shadow flashes by, glinting in the morning

sunlight.  Chuck hurls the spear, which ricochets off the

water and floats away.

Chuck plunges into the water after the fish with his bare

hands.  The fish reverses direction.  Chuck leaps after it

and goes under.  He comes up spluttering, on his hands and

knees in the shallows.

Suddenly a whole school of fish swims by him, moving in

unison, like one creature, splitting around Chuck like

mercury.  He grabs at them desperately.  Nothing.

On some rocks he sees clusters of limpets.  He takes a rock

and tries to dislodge one, but it smashes into a soggy mess.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Discouraged, he sits down on the beach and gets his breath.

Idly, Chuck takes out his wallet.  The money is soaked.  He

lays it out to dry.  He finds a PHOTOGRAPH OF KELLY, soaked

and mushy.

He tries to smooth it out.  For a moment he is overcome.  His

face tightens, his eyes get moist.  He stares out to sea.

He picks up his wallet again and takes out a credit card.

EXT.  BEACH - MINUTES LATER

Chuck wades in the water, stops by a rock covered with

limpets.  He uses a CREDIT CARD to scrape off a limpet.

With his finger, he prods around in the mucous-like meat,

then tilts up the shell and we see the gooey gray stuff slide

off the shell into his mouth.

He starts to spit it out.  Tries to make himself like it.

And he swallow it.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET

Chuck sits in the shade of a palm tree surrounded by a pile

of smashed coconut husks and a stack of limpet shells.  He

checks his watch for a moment.

But what's the point?  Everything that was so valuable before

is useless now.

EXT.  JUNGLE - LATER

Chuck digs yet another hole.  He chants to himself, almost

delusionally.

Covered in sweat, desperate and exhausted, he throws down his

wooden spade.

He lies on his back, breathing hard.  Pulls his hat over his

eyes.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY - LATER

Chuck is lying in the hole.  We find his feet.  Slowly water

is oozing out of the clay, a puddle is building around his

toes.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY - LATER

Chuck's eyes snap awake.  He looks down at his feet.  There's

a pool of muddy water there.  He dips his hand in it, touches

a finger to his lips to be sure he's not dreaming.

He grabs his sharpened stone, begins to attack the clay.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET

Chuck carefully makes marks on a palm tree with his rock

knife.  One for each day.  Very neat.  Very precise.  Very

Chuck.

For a moment, he feels the weight of his isolation.  Then he

allows himself a deep breath.  There is order now, after all.

Time is under control.

EXT.  CLIFF - DAY

Very carefully, but standing this time, Chuck makes his way

across the ledge.

EXT.  SUMMIT - DAY

He emerges on the top, takes a drink from a hand-made

canteen, and looks in all directions.  Again, he sees nothing

but ocean.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

He resumes his efforts at fishing.  A shape scuttles raggedly

beneath him.

He freezes, holding his spear motionless.  Then he jabs at

the crab -- misses!  The crab scurries away toward the rocks.

Chuck splashes after it, stabbing as he goes, falling,

getting up, stabbing again.

Suddenly one stab feels different.  Chuck carefully lifts up

the spear.  On the end is a squirming crab.

He walks carefully with it to the beach.  Lowering the spear,

he lets the crab slip off.  It darts toward the water.  Chuck

heads it off, trying to avoid the snapping claws.

He kicks it back toward the beach, then slams a rock down on

it.  He twists off a crab claw, expecting to see flaky white

meat.  But a crab has an exoskeleton.  The flesh simply pours

out, like mucous.

This is too much.  He needs the next step, from the raw to

the cooked.  The crucial next step from primitive man to the

beginnings of civilization.

EXT.  PALM GROVE SERIES OF SHOTS - TRYING TO MAKE FIRE

Chuck rubs two sticks together.  Nothing.

Chuck positions a makeshift drill in a hole he has scooped

out in a piece of driftwood.  He spins the drill with great

effort.  Nothing.

He quits, exhausted.  He looks at his hands.  They are raw

and blistered.  He feels like Job.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck emerges from the jungle and walks to the edge of the

ocean.  He dips his blistered hands into the sea water, then

looks over at the FedEx boxes that spell out H E L P.

He walks over and picks a few boxes up from the P.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - DAY

With his stone knife and spear to help him.  Chuck begins to

open the FedEx boxes.  Chuck rips open the end of one box and

shakes it.  Out tumble some videotapes.  Chuck looks at them:

what good are they?

Chuck tears another box open.  Out slide some legal papers

covered with Post-its.

In quick cuts, we see him dump out computer memory boards,

some designer dresses, flowers, a pair of roller blades, a

script with a red cover -- which he never reads.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

By now he has taken all the boxes in the P.  Only H E L

remains.  He pauses to let the irony of that sink in, then

collects more boxes.  He is even more exhausted.

EXT.  PALM GROVE

Two boxes remain.  One is the box with Angel Wings.  Chuck

sets it aside.  He opens the other box.  Out tumbles a

DOCTOR'S BAG.  Chuck can't believe it.  He opens the bag.

It's full of great stuff.  Medicine.  A scalpel.  A saw.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - LATER

Hands bandaged, Chuck tries to strike a spark on the roller

blade wheel housing.  Tries over and over.  Nothing.

He takes a long drink from his canteen, and flinches.  His

tooth is starting to hurt.  He fishes some Tylenol out of the

surgeon's bag and takes two.

EXT.  OTHER SIDE OF ISLAND - DAY

Chuck picks some berries and gingerly tries them.  They're

not bad.  He eats more.  Then more.  What a relief.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck lies on his palm fronds, groaning and holding his

stomach.  He drags himself to his knees, crawls a few feet,

and throws up in great, violent heaves.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Still looking a little green, Chuck marks another day on his

tree calendar.

EXT.  SUMMIT

He stares out to sea.  Nothing.

EXT.  WELL - DAY

Chuck lies on his belly and drinks from the well, which has

filled with water.  Then he washes his face and splashes

water over his neck.  The surface of the well stills,

bringing CHUCK'S REFLECTION into focus.  He stares at

himself.

Very carefully Chuck shaves with the surgeon's scalpel.

Chuck checks out his new appearance in the water.  Much

better.  A clean start now.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

He sits in front of his failed efforts to make fire.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck carefully shaves some tinder.  Puts it under a piece of

bamboo split lengthwise with a notch cut across it.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck uses a bamboo stick to try to make friction in the

split half of the bamboo.  He saws back and forth with all

his might, pressing it down in the groove.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck gives one last saw with his bamboo and stops, utterly

defeated.  It's all too much.

He starts to rub again.  He breathes hard, sweat pours off

his face.  He is really going for it, what the hell!  A tiny

wisp of smoke appears!  Chuck saws with even more energy.

The smoke increases.  Chuck rips away the bamboo, grabs the

nest of shavings, and blows on it frantically.  The smoke

flickers and dies.  Chuck can't believe it.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck lies in his bed of palm fronds, shivering.  He looks up

at the stars, which blaze furiously.

And he misses her so much.  A shower of meteors streaks

across the sky, as if the very heavens are raining down on

Chuck.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck readies his two sticks of bamboo again and begins

sawing with tremendous energy.  He smells something.  Is it

smoke?  He pulls off the log and looks eagerly at the nest of

tinder.  There's nothing there.

He replaces the log and starts wearily to saw again.

TIME CUT

The sun has moved in the sky.  Chuck is still sawing.  Again

the smoke appears.  Again sweat pours from his face.  The

smoke increases.  He saws even harder.  His breath comes in

anguished gulps.  Smoke is curling up now.  Chuck tears away

the bamboo, picks up the nest of kindling, and blows on it

gently.  The smoke increases.

He blows some more.  A fragile crimson spark appears.

He gently places the nest of shavings in the kindling, then

blows on it with utmost care, as if he were holding life

itself.  He shreds his money and business cards over the tiny

flame.

Suddenly, the evening breeze lifts the nest out of the

kindling.  Desperate, Chuck grabs it.  Trying to shield it

with his body, he grabs some palm fronds and jams them into

the sand, trying to make a windbreak.  They rustle and shake

and blow over.

The wind blows harder.  Chuck jams some rocks in a circle to

make an eddy.  But the fire is out.  No words now, just a

loud, primal groan of pure despair.

And then, into his vision floats...smoke.

Chuck looks down.  A wisp of smoke curls up from the nest of

tinder!  Chuck blows on it gently.  Suddenly a tiny tongue of

flame flickers and catches on the kindling!

He feeds in some more twigs, more tinder.  The flames lick

out, catch, grow.

EXT.  BEACH - WIDE - NIGHT

The fire burns on the beach.  Chuck rushes about, piling on

driftwood.

EXT.  BEACH - CLOSER

Chuck darts into the jungle and returns dragging a huge log.

He throws it on the fire.  We see his face in the light of

the fire.  He is exultant.  He dances.  He sings at the top

of his lungs.  Papa-ooo-mow-mow!

Chuck throws another huge log on the fire.  Papa-papa-papa-

oooo!  The log splutters and explodes, sending up a huge

shower of sparks that climb and sparkle in the

darkness...until they merge with the stars.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - MORNING

Chuck makes a mark on the tree.  Around it he carves a flame

-- the day he mastered fire.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - LATER THAT MORNING

Chuck sharpens his spear with his stone knife.  Then he

sticks it in the flame to harden it, pulls it out, checks it,

scrapes some more.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck wades in the water with his spear.  Suddenly he stabs

it down.  A crab is on the end.

EXT.  BEACH - HALF HOUR LATER

Chuck removes a crab from out of the fire and breaks a

steaming crab claw.  Chuck takes a bite of the flaky white

meat.  Ahhh.  It tastes great.  He takes another bite -- and

flinches.

He fumbles for his Tylenol and takes two pills.

EXT.  SUMMIT - SUNSET

Chuck stands on the summit, looking in all directions.  Then,

something on the island brings Chuck's eyes back from their

distant focus on the horizon.  From down on the beach,

beneath the palm grove, there curls a thin column of smoke.

Chuck lets a bit of pride creep into his face as he sees it.

He kneels down and begins to build a signal fire.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck curls up in his bed of palm fronds.  The fire burns.

Around it is a large stack of crab shells.  He stares into

the fire.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - MORNING

Chuck makes another mark on the tree.  He has circled the

tree with marks several times now.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Using a safety pin and some suturing thread, Chuck fishes

carefully.  Suddenly he jerks his hand back.  On the end is a

flopping fish.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - DAY

Chuck takes a cooked fish off the fire and mixes it with some

breadfruit.  He eats the soft mixture, chewing carefully, but

his tooth hurts even worse.  There are only a few Tylenol

tablets left.  He carefully cuts one in half and swallows it.

EXT.  SUMMIT - AFTERNOON

Chuck arrives with the wood for the night.  He stares out to

sea as usual, but this time he sees something different.

WHALES.  He sees whales.  Leaping.  Broaching.  Spouting.

Water pouring off fins and flukes.  Moving.  Going somewhere.

Chuck stares at them, stares until the ocean darkens and he

can see them no more.  It's late now.

Leaving, he takes one last look, as he always does.  And

another remarkable sight greets his eyes.  There, on the

horizon, just below the evening star, is a...LIGHT.  He

stares at it, fixed.

But then he stares at it really hard.

EXT.  WOODS - TREE - NEXT DAY

A tree shakes and moves, quivers...

...then slowly falls with a CRASH!

Chuck holds his surgeon's saw over the stump.  He walks to

another tree and begins to saw his way into the trunk.

EXT.  BEACH - SERIES OF SHOTS

Up above the high tide line, Chuck lashes a log to a row of

five logs already joined with vines.

Chuck sews several designer dresses together with needle and

suturing thread for a sail.

He cuts bamboo for the mast.  He carves driftwood for an oar.

He fills gourds with water, stores breadfruit and coconut as

he sings "Fly Me to the Moon" to himself.

He ties the sail to the mast and extends it with a bamboo

boom lashed on with palm fiber and video tape.  He ties on

the doctor's kit and the FedEx box with the angel wings.

He examines his handiwork:  a finished raft.

He brings out his old life preserver and puts it on, then

grabs hold of one corner of the raft to pull it down to the

beach.  It doesn't budge.  He tries to pull it again.

Nothing.  He leans his back into it and pushes with his legs.

Nothing.  He collapses on the beach, his breath coming in

heaves.

He bangs himself on the head, over and over.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - NIGHT

Chuck throws new firewood on the dwindling fire.  It comes

back to life.  Meteors streak again across the sky.  He

stares at the indifferent stars.  The moon is almost full.

Shadows of palm trees sway on the sand.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck stands by the edge of the water, which shimmers in the

reflected light of the fire.  A wave come in, licks at his

toes.  Lifts up a coconut husk, sweeps it gently out.  Chuck

watches, gets an idea.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

He begins to dig in the sand by the raft.  He grabs the oar

and digs faster, making a trench up to where the raft is.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

The rising tide floods water into the trench.  Chuck rocks

the raft back and forth.  It floats!  As the wave recedes, it

takes the raft with it.  Chuck has to run beside it.

CHUCK TRYING TO ESCAPE - MONTAGE

Over and over, we see Chuck capsize at the reef.  The first

time he has a bandage on his leg.  He tries everything --

different rafts, different approaches, but each time the

ocean spits him back.

EXT.  LAGOON - DAY

Defeated and utterly exhausted, Chuck swims back from his

latest failure.  He wades back ashore with the FedEx box and

throws it on the ground by the palm tree.  He has tried so

hard to escape, so incredibly hard, done everything humanly

possible and beyond.  He rips off his life preserver, throws

it into the underbrush, then collapses on the beach.

Chuck's shoulders begin to shake, as he is racked with deep

sobs of despair.

And then he throws his head back and lets forth, from deep

inside himself, a SCREAM of rage and anger and pain.  The

Scream pierces the indifferent natural sounds of the island,

the rustling of the breeze, the lulling rhythm of the waves.

It is powerful, disturbing, primal.

The breeze picks up.  Behind Chuck, the palm trees begin to

sway.  The tide is reaching up toward the beach.  The waves

crash louder.  The palm trees sway even more.

Chuck picks up some wet sand and rubs it on his body.

A few DROPS OF RAIN begin to fall, splashing on Chuck and

sizzling in the fire.

Chuck looks up:  clouds have obscured the sun.  The wind

blows harder.  The rain falls harder, streaking the sand

Chuck had rubbed on his body.  STEAM sizzles out of the fire.

Chuck looks up, disbelieving.  The bottom falls out of the

heavens -- monsoon rain, more rain than you have ever seen

before.  A long wave rolls up, its frothy fingers reaching

for the fire.

Forget the raft!  Forget despair!  The fire could go out!

This is disaster!

He springs into action.  Chuck grabs an empty FedEx box.

With his wooden shovel he frantically SCOOPS SOME COALS out

of the fire as the rain HISSES and POUNDS at them.  He slides

the coals into the FedEx box, grabs some sticks of driftwood

and sets off on a run.

EXT.  WOODS - DAY

Chuck runs through the woods, slipping and stumbling.  Vines

grab at him.  The rain is so thick he can hardly see.

EXT.  WOODS - MINUTES LATER

Chuck bursts out of the woods into the lava field.  Smoke

pours out of the FedEx box.  The coals are about to burn

through!

EXT.  LAVA FIELD - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck stumbles up the slippery rocks, dragging the smoking

box.  His face is drenched, desperate.

EXT.  CAVE - DAY - MINUTES LATER

Chuck tumbles into the cave just as the coals burn through

the FedEx box.

Using the remains of the box, he desperately tries to scoot

the coals into a dry spot.

One by one, THE PRECIOUS COALS GO OUT.

Dripping water off his hands and face, he pushes a few

together with his fingers, ignoring the burns.

He stomps on the driftwood and saws at it with his knife.  He

places this kindling on the coals.  They sputter and sizzle.

Barely catch.  He fans them with the box.  A tiny flicker

catches, then starts to grow.

SERIES OF SHOTS

On the beach, Chuck desperately gathers more firewood in the

driving monsoon.  He can barely see.  Driven by the storm,

the waves are licking at the palm grove.

He runs through the woods.  Branches whip at his face.  Roots

tear at his feet, tripping him.

He stumbles up the lava field.  Sliding.  Struggling.  Barely

able to breathe, the rain is so strong.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

He dumps the firewood on the floor of the cave.  But where

the fire had flickered, there is only a pile of wet black

ashes.

THE FIRE IS OUT.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck lies on the floor of the cave, shivering in the

darkness as the rain falls.  His fire is out, his tooth is

killing him, he can't escape.

EXT.  CAVE - NEXT DAY

Chuck emerges from the cave.  The rain has stopped.  This is

the absolute lowest.  His face reflects his pain and despair.

He's trapped.  It's hopeless.  Everything he tried to build

is gone.

EXT.  LEDGE - DAY

Chuck slowly walks out on the ledge.  He stares down at the

waves breaking on the jagged rocks far below.

He lets go one hand.  Then lets go the other.  He is barely

balanced.  It looks like a wisp of breeze would blow him

right off.  He slides one foot to the very lip of the

precipice.

Suddenly his foot slips!

Instinctively he turns into the cliff, grabs for a hold!  One

hand reaches for a nubbing of rock, slips off!  The other

closes, his fingers straining to hold him.

He breathes in deep gasps.  He had wanted to end it, come so

close.

His deepest instinct was to survive.  And that is what he is

going to do.

Slowly he pulls himself back from the edge.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck walks aimlessly down the beach, feeling the burden of

starting over.  The beach is littered with seaweed and

flotsam, bits of rope, plastic bottles.  He picks up a

plastic bottle.  That will come in handy.

The Chuck sees a SOCCER BALL with "Wilson" stamped on it in

big black letters.

He picks it up, holds it, tosses it up in the air.  Then he

kicks it, then kicks it again, then runs down the beach,

trying to kick it and keep it out of the water.  Feeling joy

again, even here.

INT.  CAVE - THAT DAY

The sun is setting on his darkened cave.  The soccer ball

sits in the corner by the black cold ashes of what was once

his fire.

Chuck carves a bit of coconut meat, takes a bite and winces

as the meat hits his sore tooth.  He tosses the shell on a

small new pile of shells.

Chuck shakes out the last half Tylenol tablet.  He puts the

tablet in his mouth, then takes a sip out of his coconut

canteen.  When the water hits his tooth that hurts too.

INT.  CAVE - MORNING

Chuck mixes a mash of breadfruit and coconut.  He tries to

pack the tooth with the mash, but it's so sensitive that even

this hurts.  He pounds the floor of the cave in frustration.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Chuck holds a stone chisel and his hammer stone.  He

positions the chisel against his inflamed tooth.  But the

thought of what he is about to do is too frightening.  He

lowers the chisel.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck tries to fill his mouth with sea water.  The pain is so

great his eyes water.

He falls back in the water and floats there, looking up at

the sky.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Determined, Chuck hold the stone chisel again.  He raises it

slowly to his mouth and picks up the hammer stone.

He brings the hammer down hard on the chisel!  The screen

goes BLACK as Chuck's SCREAM continues UNDER.

FADE IN:

EXT.  OCEAN - SUNRISE - THREE YEARS LATER

The sky takes on the first colors of the day.  The ocean is

still dark, but a few waves catch the first light.  The

sunrise touches the summit, moves down the cliff, then lights

the cove.  On the screen superimpose:

REFLECTION - WATER

A spear shimmers in the calm morning water.  Attached to the

spear is a man, standing completely still.

ON CHUCK

We move up out of the reflection to the real man.  His legs

are scarred.  The remnants of a dress wrap around his middle.

A stone knife on a neatly mounted haft is stuck in a belt

made of videotape and woven fiber.  Necklaces of shark's

teeth and shells hang from his neck.  His hair is long.  A

coconut frond hat is on his head.

The hand wrapped around the spear is scarred and brown as a

berry.  It holds the spear perfectly still.  The watch is

gone.

We come around slowly until we see Chuck's face.  The eyes

say it all.  They stare out with a survivor's intensity,

staring at the water, unblinking.  This is the man who used

to splash futilely about in the water trying to fish.

This is the FedEx man who was plugged into the tumult of

activity and energy, surrounded by technology and human

activity at its most intense, devoted to making seconds

count.  Now he is utterly alone, and utterly still.

And now he has all the time in the world.

Suddenly, without an once of wasted motion, he shoots the

spear forward at a low angle.  It quivers, stuck on the

bottom.  He pulls it out with a practiced twist.  On the end

is a struggling fish.

But this isn't a thrill anymore.  It's another day at the

office.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck makes a mark on a palm tree.  He has completely covered

three other trees with marks.  It sinks in how long he has

been here.

EXT.  JUNGLE - LATER

Chuck carries the fish back from the beach.  Now there is a

well-worn trail.

INT.  CAVE - THAT AFTERNOON

Chuck enters with the fish.  We are greeted with the well-

ordered lair of a primitive stone-age man.

Clam shell spirals weave in and out around the fire hole.

Strips of eel jerky and fish hang drying from racks.

Tools are lined up neatly:  digging sticks, stone hammers and

saws, spears neatly hafted onto shafts, drills, awls.  Bits

and pieces of feathers, skins, bones, rags, leaves -- are all

neatly arranged.  Strings and cords hang from hooks.  Coconut

bowls and cooking rocks form a small kitchen.  A raincoat and

rain-hat woven of palm fronds is neatly draped over a frame.

Evocative pieces of driftwood decorate the room.  A wind

chime of obsidian flakes sways gently.  The watch hangs on a

stick.

The Angel Box has the place of honor on one side.  On the

other side the Wilson soccer ball rests on a throne of rocks.

Seaweed has been placed on the ball as hair.  Clam shells

have been stuck on for eyes, other shells form a mouth.  A

tube shell and conch form a pipe.

INT.  CAVE - FIRE - NIGHT

The fish are being smoke under a palm frond.  Eel skins hang

from sticks, roasting.  Chuck sits by the fire, hafting a

stone knife onto a wooden haft.

He ties some fiber to a stick, then braids it into string,

using both hands and his mouth for the three strands.

He ties the string tightly around the shaft.  He does his

work automatically.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck eats some fish and some mashed breadfruit.  He chews

each bite, his eyes in distant focus.  The firelight flickers

on his face.

EXT.  CLIFF - SUNRISE

Chuck carries firewood up to the summit.  He mechanically

adds wood to the fire.  As he does so, something out to sea

catches his eye.  He stops and stands up.

CHUCK'S POV - WHALES

WHALES broach out past the rocky point.  Spouts of water

shoot into the air.

ON CHUCK

As he watches them, a light comes back into his eyes.  He

grins.  There's a big gap where his teeth had been.  He turns

and strides down the hill.

EXT.  CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

He heads across the rock bridge that once had so terrified

him, without losing stride.  It's second nature now.

INT.  CAVE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck enters the cave, picks up the ball and heads out.

EXT.  SUMMIT - EVENING

The signal fire burns.  A spectacular cloudy sunset lights up

the sky.  Chuck sits with Wilson on the summit, a bowl of

mashed breadfruit in one hand, a bowl of roasted eel skin in

another.

As Chuck watches the sunset unfold, watches the whales going

by in the darkened water, he takes some roasted eel chips,

dips them into the breadfruit paste, and offers one to

Wilson.  His voice is flat, monotonal.

But Wilson declines.

He takes a big crunchy bite.

PULL BACK as the sun goes down and Chuck reaches into the

bowl again and dips an eel skin chip in the dip.

EXT.  ROCKY LEDGE - NIGHT - LATER

Torch in one hand, Wilson in the other, Chuck walks across

the rocky ledge.  He passes the flume without even noticing.

Suddenly his shoe breaks!  It's sandal made of woven yucca

leaves.

He bends down and fixes it, then heads on down the ledge.

EXT.  LEDGE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck makes a casual leap, a leap he has made hundreds of

times, but this time the sandal comes loose.  It catches on a

rock, and CHUCK FALLS!

His hands are cut and bruised.  He tries to get up, can't.

Chuck sits back and examines his foot.  His fingers come back

covered with blood.  He reaches out to steady himself, and

leaves a HANDPRINT OF BLOOD on the rock.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Chuck wraps his foot in bandages.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Chuck's face is sweaty.  He looks down at his foot.  It is

red, swollen, infected.  He stands up, tries to put some

weight on it.  The pain is intense.

Chuck sticks the scalpel onto some coals to sterilize it.  He

holds it over his foot, takes a breath, then jabs in into the

wound.  The pain is intense.  Chuck passes out.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck stirs, takes a drink, weakly tosses on another log, and

collapses back on the floor.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

Chuck wakes up, trembling, shaking, wet with sweat.  He

staggers up.  His shadow sways on the wall of the cave.  He

struggles to get another log on the fire.  He squints at his

only companion, the soccer ball.

He collapses again.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck stirs and squints his eyes.  He takes a drink of water.

He is feeling better.  He puts another log on the fire and

slowly begins to chew on some breadfruit and dried fish.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck slowly wades into the water, favoring his injured foot.

But something feels different.  He glances around.  What is

it?  And then he sees something, perhaps the worst possible

sight.

CHUCK'S POV - SAIL

A SAIL is moving steadily away from the island.

CHUCK

Throws down the spear and waves his arms.

He runs into the water and starts to swim.  He is so weak,

however, he can only make a few strokes.  He tries to yell as

he swims...

Choking and weak, he turns back and drags himself up on the

beach.  In the b.g., the sail dwindles into the distance.

EXT.  SUMMIT - LATER

Chuck struggles to the top of the hill.  His fire has been

extinguished by the rain.  In the distance, far against the

horizon, he sees a sail -- or is it a cloud?  The whiteness

shimmers against the horizon.  Chuck squints.  Whatever it

was, it is gone.  Above him some contrails from jets mark the

sky.

Furious, he kicks his signal fire, scattering the burnt-out

coals.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck makes a new mark on his calendar tree.  Then he stops.

He CUTS an angry big line under the last mark, then hacks

away at the palm tree, slashing it with the stone knife,

ripping and marking through all his dates.  Finally the stone

knife breaks in two.  Chuck drops the broken half and catches

his breath.

EXT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck enters the cave.  No signal fires burn.  The island is

dark.

EXT.  SUMMIT - DAY

Chuck stands on the summit, staring out to sea.  Nothing, not

even a contrail, not even a whale spout.

EXT.  CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

He is on his way down, suddenly he sees something and stops.

It's the HANDPRINT, the bloody handprint, his own handprint.

He slowly extends his hand and covers it, then pulls it away.

Traces it with his fingers.

INT.  CAVE - DAYS LATER

Chuck has the beginnings of an artist's studio.  Several

large clam shells hold paint.  A few egg shells are lined up.

Brushes have been made from roots and feathers.

Chuck covers his hand with paint and makes a handprint on the

wall of the cave.  He stands back and looks at it.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

He chews some berries, then holds his hand against the wall

of the cave and spits a dark blue mist around it.  When he

takes his hand away, the silhouette of his handprint remains.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

With the Angel Wing Box as a model, Chuck dips one of his

feather brushes in paint, and make a tentative line on the

wall of the cave.  He works hesitantly, rubs off a line,

tries again.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck is finishing his first figure, a crude portrait of a

man -- himself?  Hard to tell.  He examines his work.  He

takes some shells and sticks them on as eyes.

Chuck picks up Wilson, thinks.

He takes some charcoal out of his fire and draws eyebrows on

the ball.  Then, he mashes some berries, dips his fingers in

the juice, and makes lips.  He sticks shells on with clay for

eyes.  Then he looks at the face.

He sits back and regards his companion.  He gestures around

the cave at the new paintings.

But Wilson doesn't have an opinion.

Idly Chuck takes down the Angel Box.

For a long time he studies the wings on it.  With a stick, he

tries to draw a similar wing on the dusty floor of the cave.

Dissatisfied, he wipes it away.  He looks at the Angel Box.

Casually he reaches over and cuts it open with a stone knife.

Inside he finds two bottles of green salsa.  And a letter.

He reads over it.

Visibly moved, Chuck puts down the letter.

EXT.  ISLAND - DAY

The monsoon pours down.  Wind whips the palm trees.  The

waves are gray and angry, tearing at the beach.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

As the rain pours down outside, Chuck studies the sodden,

ruined photograph of Kelly, which is really only a gray mess.

Chuck dips his finger into one of the bowls of colors and

streaks it slowly across his face.  To exorcise his

loneliness, he will paint on the most expressive canvas there

is:  his own body.

CHUCK PAINTING HIMSELF - MONTAGE

Close-up on scarred fingers, as they paint on Chuck's face

and body.  Color on skin.  Tight dramatic shots of Chuck

being transformed.

Chuck takes white paint and covers his hand.  Then he presses

it into his chest and makes a handprint.  He draws a yellow

spiral on his leg, then takes red and makes jagged lightning

bolts on his chest on either side of the hand.

WATER

Shimmers in a gourd.  Chuck's face swims into focus.  It has

been painted white.  Looking at himself in the reflection, he

dots on blue stars with dark blue from squid ink.

EXT.  CAVE - LATER

The rains have stopped.  The island is washed bright and

green.

ON CHUCK

As he stands up in the cove.  His face is white with blue

stars.  Handprints circle his torso, flanked by red lightning

bolts.  Braided cords circle his biceps.  Bone necklaces hang

from his neck.  Feathers jut out from his hair.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck goes from tree to tree, making handprints along his

path.  Chuck was here.  This is his mark.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - DAY

He covers the calendar trees with handprints.  Then stops.

Sees something.  Eyes fixed on the beach, he walks toward the

shoreline.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck emerges from the palm trees, and now we see what he had

seen.

A FIFTY-FIVE GALLON OIL DRUM.

And another one.  TWO.  Chuck stares at the barrels.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck sits staring at the oil drums.  It's almost as if he is

hesitating to take advantage of them.  That he may not want,

really, to leave now.

Then his inner struggle ends.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Filled with determination, Chuck rolls a barrel up the beach.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Using a palm tree as a fulcrum, Chuck hauls hard on a rope

made of vines, pulling the barrel up off the beach.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck throws aside palm leaves, revealing...the remains of

his raft.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck is drawing with a purpose now.  And we see what he is

working on.  The plans for a raft.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck is making a list of what he needs.  He works intently.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck lashes the barrels onto the raft.  Checks the knots.

Lashes more rope.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

He sews dresses together with handmade fiber string.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

He weaves videotape together to form a sea anchor.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck digs a channel toward the raft.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

Chuck constructs a water collection device with some FedEx

boxes, some plastic weighted with a stone.  Explains it to

Wilson.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck writes on the wall.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck loads the raft, which rocks gently in the cove.  He has

a sail made of designer dresses sewn together with fiber

thread.  A sea anchor secured by videotape woven together

into a rope.  Plastic bottles filled with water.  A signal

kite made of FedEx paper.

Then comes the FedEx box with the angel wings.  Then Wilson.

And he gently leads the raft into the lagoon.

He jumps onto the raft, begins to paddle out toward where the

surf crashes onto the reef.

EXT.  LAGOON - DAY

Waves break against the reef.  With his paddles Chuck

maneuvers the raft toward the cut in the reef.  Boom!  The

wave crashes, the water surges through the cut, then recedes

with a whoosh.

Chuck watches, times the waves, paddles like mad.  He's

committed.  SCRAPE goes the first barrel, then the second,

riding the receding wave.  He's out!

But the next wave is already surging forward.  It smashes the

raft against the reef!  Coconuts and foodstuffs hurtle off

the raft!

The barrels cushion the impact.  The raft tilts, spins, but

stays outside the reef!  The ropes holding the jugs of water

break!  The water sweeps overboard!

The wave recedes again.  Chuck recovers, paddles with all his

strength, and then he's clear of the breakers!

For a long moment he floats on the rollers, getting his

breath.

The water jugs float away, carried by the waves back into the

lagoon.  Chuck could go back and get them.  If he were being

prudent, he definitely would.

But he's out.  He might never get back out again.

He stares at the lagoon and the receding water jugs.  Then he

stares at the island.  Goodbye to all that.

He turns and begins raising the sail.

EXT.  OCEAN - WIDE - MINUTES LATER

Powered by its multicolored makeshift sail, trailing its

gently flapping signal kite of FedEx paper, the raft slowly

moves away from the island, out toward the open ocean.

And we pull back until the ocean swallows the tiny raft and

then we TILT DOWN AND...

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - FOUR WEEKS LATER

The ocean again, low.  The raft floats into frame.  A trace

of a breeze flaps the signal kite, which barely stays aloft,

its rope frayed and tattered.  The still is set up in the

middle, plastic with a rock weighting down the center.

Chuck is gaunt, his clothes rotted.

He lies looking over the side of the raft, spear in one hand,

staring intently at the water.

Dorados swim like specters, flashing and darting.  Chuck

stabs with his spear.  Stabs again.

Exhausted, he sinks back to the raft.  Two Dorados leap into

the air ahead of him.

Chuck tries to stare again into the water.  He spots another

fish, a flash of silver under the surface.

Chuck struggles to his feet, raises his spear.  SPLAT!

Something strikes him in the chest, almost knocking him into

the water.

On the raft we see flashes of silver and green and blue.  A

FLYING FISH.  Chuck dives at it, catches it, loses it.

He catches it again just as it almost flops over the side.

EXT.  RAFT - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck sucks the juice out of the head.  He chews meat off the

tiny rib bones.

Chuck is in the stage of malnutrition, vitamin deprivation,

salt insufficiency, and exposure where the personality splits

and becomes external.  Like all castaways, he has

conversations with the two sides of himself.

BadChuck wins.  Chuck keeps eating.  He stares up at the sun,

which beats down unmercifully.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

The raft drifts.  Chuck has taken down the sail and rigged it

as a canopy.  Drenched with sweat, Chuck lies on the raft,

trying to sleep.  He dabs at some sores that are ulcerating

his body and won't let him get comfortable.  Plus, there's a

chaffing, squeaking sound.  He looks around for the source.

We see it with him.  One of the ropes is frayed and about to

break.  If it does, the logs will come apart from the floats.

Chuck comes to his knees.  Then sinks back down.

Chuck tries another tack.  Sweet reason.

That stops GoodChuck for a moment.

He holds up the pathetic little jar with its few teaspoons of

murky water.

Slowly Chuck gets up, lifts up the water jar, and takes a

swallow.  Then another.

Then another.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

Chuck works to braid a new rope.  He is focused,

concentrating as hard as he can, but everything is slow and

hard and he's weak and clumsy.  He tests the rope, but it

doesn't hold.

He gets an idea, starts to pull the signal kite in.

The kite rope is much thinner than the rope he had used to

tie the logs, but it's all he has.  He ties the log with the

kite rope.  Exhausted, he lies back down.

EXT.  RAFT - NIGHT

The moon is full.  The waves cast off shadows on the ocean.

Chuck is staring into the sky, trying to find a star to

navigate by.

We hear the fraying sound again.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY

Chuck saws at the outer log with his stone knife.  Across the

water comes a storm.  We can see it like a waterfall moving

toward us.

He looks at the deteriorating rope, at the rotting sail.

Chuck pushes the outer log away, then takes the loose rope

and begins to lash it around the center logs.

The raft is rocking.  The waves are stronger.  It's hard to

tie the logs together.

Rain falls like a sheet on Chuck.

Chuck works frantically in the rain, trying to tie the rope.

Finally he does.

Then he scrambles for his water collecting funnel, struggles

to pull it up.  One corner is stuck and collapses.

Desperately he rights it, pulls the funnel up.

Drops begin to run down the sides and collect in the jar.

Soaked, Chuck stares at the water as it rises.

Then the rain stops.

We see the line of rain recede away from Chuck, spattering

the ocean.  But all around him the ocean is calm again.

And out comes the sun.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

The raft floats on quiet seas.  The sky is blue, with few

high cirrus clouds so motionless they seem pasted on.

Chuck lies on the raft, sick and weak.

Suddenly, from the depths beside him, silently rises a huge

shape.

A SPERM WHALE, still mainly submerged.  The blow hole is near

Chuck, wet and pulsing like giant lips.  The eye of the whale

is only a few feet away.  It looks upon Chuck out of an

intelligence deep and alien.

He slowly comes to his knees and stares at it.

The blow hole opens and WHOOSH, out shoots a geyser of fine

spray which settles on Chuck in a mist.

The whale rises farther, dwarfing the raft.  From the whale

comes a deep sound like a foghorn.

Startled, Chuck jumps back, rocking the raft.  He catches

himself, slowly reaches out and touches the whale.

The whale blows again, drenching Chuck in more spray.

Chuck touches the whale again.

Very slowly it drifts along with the raft.

We look right into the whale's eye.  Beneath the surface we

can see the huge jaws open and close.

Very slowly the whale moves ahead of the raft, its vast body

passing Chuck.

Chuck rips a fillet off the line and throws it in front of

the whale, which ignores it.

The whale slowly sinks, then suddenly arches its huge back

and heads straight for the bottom.

For a moment, all that remains are the flukes, black and

vertical against the dark blue sky.  With one swoop, those

flukes could destroy Chuck and his raft.  But they don't do

anything except slowly sink.

Then it is gone.

We are on Chuck's face as he stares at where the whale had

been, the surface marked only by a ring of concentric ripples

that reach out and gently rock the raft.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

Chuck checks the water.  It is green and full of floaties.

It looks awful.  He takes the jug, puts it to his mouth, and

drinks.  Instantly he throws up back into the jug, barely

keeps from dropping it.

He dips his hand into the ocean, splashes some sea water on

his face, splutters it out, then licks his lips.  He is so

thirsty.

He looks at the water jug, full now with his own vomit, turns

away, begins to work on the sea anchor again.

But the work makes him even thirstier.  He looks at the jug

again.

Picks it up.  Takes a long drink.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

The fish return.  Chuck gets up with his spear, then puts it

down.

Chuck listens.  Doesn't hear anything.

Chuck picks up the spear, stabs it, misses.

Suddenly he has a fish on the end of the spear.  It

struggles, he scoops it onto the raft, brutally pounds on its

head, twists the stone knife into its spine.  The struggling

stops.

Chuck looks at the dead fish and begins to sob.

He cries uncontrollably.  As he cries he cuts off the head,

pulls out the eyeballs, and eats each one.  Then he sucks the

marrow out of the head.

Then takes the heart and eats that.  Then eats the liver.

As he is chewing, he cuts the meat into strips.

When he is done, he takes the backbone, breaks it, and sucks

on it.

Fish scales shine in his hair, blood covers his chest.

EXT.  OCEAN - NIGHT

The raft rocks gently.  Chuck looks up.  The strips of fish

are glowing.  So is the deck where he killed the fish.

He reaches out to touch the fish strips.  His hand is glowing

too.

Suddenly he sees other lights.  A ship.  A ship is out there.

And he hears it, a humming in deep register.

He waves his hands.  He yells.

His voice cracks, we can barely hear it over the ocean.

The lights move on.

His raft is rocked by the wake, rocked hard.  Chuck is thrown

into the water!

He comes to the surface, sputtering.  Where is the raft?

He looks one way, then another.  Darkness.

This is the worst.

He turns again in the water.  There, dimly, he can see the

glow from the fish he killed.  The glow saves his life.

He swims toward it.

He pulls himself back on the raft.

He lies there exhausted, the glow from the phosphorescence

casting a greenish light on his face.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

Clouds are building up.  In the distance lightning flashes.

The clouds come closer.

Little bits of electricity jump off the mast.  Saint Elmos

fire jumps around Chuck's hand.

Fascinated, he holds out his hand.  The fire jumps from his

hand to the mast.

Suddenly lightning shoots from the sky and strikes the ocean!

A huge spout of water explodes like a depth charge.  The

CRACK is intense, then rolls away.

Chuck stares, then realizes the danger and throws himself

down on the raft.  Suddenly a wall of rain sweeps over him

and the ocean begins to roll.  The thunder is deafening.

Lightning flashes bursts through the rain.

Frantic, Chuck lets out the sea anchor as the raft scuds down

a huge wave.  The anchor catches, slowing the raft so that it

rides the wave down.

The waves come at him high as houses.  The raft rides up one

side, then plunges down the next.

All Chuck can do is hold on.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

The storm has passed.  The raft floats on big dark rollers.

We hear the chirping and squeaking of dolphins.  They come

close to the raft.  Chuck watches them play.  Then realizes

they are chasing his fish.  They drive them along, into the

path of another dolphin, who darts in and rips into the

dorado, turning the water around the raft into churning,

bloody foam.

He takes his oar and begins beating the water.  The killing

continues.

Suddenly the water is still.  One dolphin sticks its head out

of the water and stares at Chuck, squeaking.

Another dolphin lifts its head up, then another.  They squeak

to each other, clearly communicating and talking about Chuck.

He splashes the water with his oar.

They dive, then jump into the air, squeaking as they go.

They're gone.

He begins to laugh.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

Chuck tries to stretch with some simple yoga.  Each movement

takes forever.

He rolls over onto his stomach and tries to do a pushup.  He

can't.  Collapses onto the raft.

Tries to do another pushup.  Can't.

He rolls over.

He looks at the ocean.  They're in a line of garbage, a thick

slick of debris dumped off of ships.

He closes his eyes.  After a minute they come open.

They slowly close again.

His eyes come open again.

He hums Beethoven's fifth.  BA BA BA BUM.

He hums to himself, begins to sing, Beatles.

He pulls in the loose sea anchor rope, which is covered with

barnacles.

He scrapes the barnacle off the rope into the water jug, then

sips it.

The sun is setting, huge rays shoot out across the sky.

Out of the empty ocean the Dorados suddenly appear, leaping

flashes of silver right by the raft.

One Dorado swims right by the raft, broadside.

Chuck looks at it, uncomprehending.  Then slowly reaches for

his spear.

Carefully he comes to his feet, then shoots the spear into

the fish.

Flapping and struggling, it lands on the deck.  Chuck pounces

on it.

EXT.  RAFT - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

He cuts it open.  The other Dorados ram the raft in fury,

like a lynch mob.

The banging continues.

He concentrates on his work, then sits back on his heels in

amazement.  There's another fish inside.  He holds that fish

up, stares at it, then cuts it open.

There's a smaller fish inside it.

He pops out an eyeball, then another, and crunches them

between his teeth.

He takes the heart and liver, starts to eat, then stops.

He struggles to remember.

He eats them.

EXT.  RAFT - NEXT MORNING

Chuck splashes sea water on his face.  Adjusts the water

still.

Chuck picks up the smallest fish.  It's half digested.  He

washes it in the ocean, trigger fish come up and nibble at

his fingers.

He cuts the small fish and hangs it on the stays.

Suddenly something bumps the raft.  Hard.  Then again.

Fins cut the water.  SHARKS.  A big hammerhead bumps the

raft.  BadChuck hums the theme from "Jaws."  Chuck takes his

spear stabs at the shark.

Another one circles in, bumps the raft.

The shark circles again, that big hammerhead like a

nightmare.

He stabs at it with his spear.  He might as well have stabbed

concrete.  The shark circle, Chuck stabs again.

But the shark is gone.

Stabs again and again at the empty ocean.

Chuck kneels, wavering, on the raft.  The ocean is calm.

Suddenly, BUMP.  The raft tilts.

Chuck hangs on.

Then a shark appears, just out of spear range.  Its lifeless

black eyes seem to stare right through Chuck.

If the Dorado was a gift from God, this is a message from

Hell.

Then the shark is gone.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck lies back on the raft.  He is humming.

He smiles at the thought.

Thinks about that, it spoils the picture.

He closes his eyes.  This is the greatest fantasy.

Chuck thinks over the options, thinking of each one.

He rolls over.  There, square in his vision, is a ship, its

form coming in and out of a low haze.

Chuck jumps to his feet.  Waves.  Screams.

The ship moves on.  We can see the decks the rigging, the

vastness of it.

Chuck realizes he is naked.  Struggles to pull on the remains

of his pants finally holds them like a diaper with one hand

as he continues to wave.

On the ship no one is to be seen.  It is a spooky sight.

The big tanker moves on.

We are on Chuck's face.  Passed up again.

Then he realizes what is about to happen.  He throws out the

sea anchor.

He throws himself onto the raft and grips it as tight as he

can, wiggles his feet into the ropes.

Then comes the wake of the ship.  It rocks the raft like a

piece of flotsam.  The raft rides high up on the wave, then

shoots down it, but the sea anchor holds, and the raft slows

and rides along with the wave.

And then the sea is calm again.

Slowly Chuck sinks to his knees.  His hand lets loose his

pants.

He lies down on the raft and imagines the conversation with

the ship's captain.

The depression comes back again.

Chuck picks up Wilson.

He holds Wilson close to his chest.

He lies on the raft and holds Wilson close.

We move up until we see --

EXT.  OCEAN - AERIAL - EVENING

Chuck lying curled up on the raft, Wilson cradled in his

arms, and all around the vast empty ocean.

EXT.  OCEAN - NEXT MORNING

Chuck slowly wakes up.  Sets Wilson aside.

And the other Chuck begins to laugh.

The laughter goes on.

He stands up and checks the horizon.

Suddenly Chuck sees something on the horizon.  A bank of

clouds.  A cone of -- land.

He squints, stares again.  The clouds part.  It looks like --

his island.

Chuck doesn't know whether to feel joy or despair.

Chuck squints.

Chuck picks up the soccer ball, holds it up, and stares out

at...ocean.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

Chuck slowly writes on the sail.

He sits back, looks at the mock headstone.

He goes on writing.

The waves begin to grow, the ocean turns a slate gray.  Far

above him, great frigate birds circle.  Suddenly one dives on

a booby which has caught a fish.  The great frigate bird

swoops all around the booby until, panicked, it drops the

fish, which plummets toward the sea.

With a graceful dive, the huge bird grabs the fish and then

soars up on a thermal, high into the sky.

Lightning flashes back and forth across the horizon, which is

turning black and dark.  Thunder rolls.

EXT.  RAFT - NIGHT

The raft goes up and down huge waves.  Every few seconds

lightning flashes, illuminating the raft and Chuck holding

desperately to it, his eyes wild with fear.

EXT.  RAFT - MORNING

The waves continue.  Chuck holds on, his face pale.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER

The sky clears.  The waves are still big.  The fish are back.

And then come the sharks, cutting through the water.  Chuck

can't get up to get his spear, he just has to watch as blood

darkens the water.

And then the sharks are gone.

Chuck comes to his knees slowly, then a big wave hits.

Wilson is swept into the ocean!

For a moment Chuck is uncomprehending.  He watches as Wilson

slowly floats away.

Then he dives in to the water!  Swims frantically after

Wilson.

Wilson floats away from him.  He swims, but he's so weak.

Finally he gets to Wilson.  He reaches out, but only pushes

the ball farther away.

It bobs on the waves.  Chuck treads water, exhausted.

Where is the raft?

Then he turns back the other way.  The raft has drifted by

him.  He can go after Wilson, or he can go after the raft.

He swims toward the raft, barely moving.  No matter how hard

he swims, the raft seems to recede from him.

Finally he reaches it, hangs on the side, breathing hard,

choking, crying.

He struggles to pull himself on board.

But he is weak, so weak.  He can't do it.

Summoning some primitive reserve of strength, he tries again.

This time he slides on.

He lies on the raft, panting.

Then with all his strength he pulls himself to his feet,

holds on to the mast, scans the ocean for Wilson.

Nothing but waves.

This is too much.  Chuck starts to cry.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

Chuck takes a swallow of water, washes it around in his

mouth, then swallows.  With his wet tongue he licks his

cracked lips.

The sun breaks through the clouds.

With what strength he has left, Chuck raises the canopy,

fastens it.

He sits in the meager shade, his head between his knees.

Closes his eyes.  Just for a minute.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER

A different sort of shadow crosses Chuck's face.  He opens

his eyes.

There, riding right beside his raft, is a ship, a huge rusty

tanker.  Someone shouts down in a language we don't

understand.

Chuck sits up, can't believe it.  Struggles to cover himself.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER

Chuck is lifted up the rusted steel side of the boat in a

Jacob's ladder.

EXT.  SHIP - DAY - LATER

Chuck steps on board, can't support himself.

The crew gathers around.  None of them speak English, but

there is a spontaneous outburst of human connection.

One man brings some water.  Another a blanket.  Another some

warm tea.

Chuck sits there, shivering now.

Deliriously happy.  Delirious.

INT.  U.S. NAVAL HOSPITAL - HAWAII

A cavernous hanger-sized ward brightly lit and filled with

row upon row of hospital beds, each with its table, side

chair, and lamp, each with a stainless steel bedpan and

neatly folded sheets and blankets stacked ready to use, and

each completely empty.

Except for one.

And on that bed we see Chuck, in a blue hospital gown.  An IV

drips into his arm.  He plays idly with the remote control of

the bed.  He raises the head, then the foot.  He pushes

another button and the knee rest bends the bed again.

A DOCTOR enters, carrying a thick chart.  Chuck gives him a

big manic grin.  Malcolm MacDowell in "A Clockwork Orange."

He checks his blood work records.

Chuck has been trying not to laugh.  Now he can't stop

himself.

Chuck can't seem to help laughing at everything.

Chuck laughs again.

He starts to laugh again.

Chuck stifles his laughter.

The laughter again.  Unsettling.

Chuck gives his biggest smile.

INT.  HOSPITAL - NIGHT - LATER

Rolling his IV, Chuck walks very slowly out of the ward.

Every step is an effort.

INT.  PHONE CUBICLE - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER

A small windowless room with only a desk and a phone, lit by

a fluorescent lamp.  Chuck is listening to the phone ring.

Kelly answers.

Chuck is overcome for a moment, can't say a word.

For some reason he can't keep himself from laughing.  He

covers the mouthpiece and laughs.

And then we hear a dial tone, harsh, mechanical, final.

EXT.  PHONE CUBICLE - MINUTES LATER

We can see Chuck inside, staring at the phone.

INT.  PHONE CUBICLE - MINUTES LATER

We hear a faint persistent hum.  Chuck looks around, trying

to locate the sound.  He looks up, focuses on the fluorescent

light, that background sound he can no longer tune out, then

picks up the phone again.

EXT.  PHONE CUBICLE

Stan answers the phone.

The laughter again.

And again we hear the dial tone.

INT.  PHONE CUBICLE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck's on the phone again.

There's a long silence.  Then we hear Stan's voice.

Chuck begins to laugh, a little too loud, a little too

shrill.  He's on a high.

EXT.  HAWAII - BEACH RESTAURANT

A terrace by the ocean.  Tables filled with diners.  Food

being delivered by waiters.  So simple, eating.  So taken for

granted.

At one table sits Chuck, dressed in a Hawaiian shirt and

shorts, with a half-dozen plates in front of him.  He

gestures to the waiter.  Bring me more.  It all tastes so

damned good.

Behind him is the ocean.  Chuck doesn't glance at it.

INT.  DENTIST - NEXT DAY

An attractive DENTAL TECHNICIAN with an Australian accent

cleans Chuck's teeth with an ultrasound device.  She's close,

very close.  Chuck looks up at her.  She looks really good.

She smiles at him, then touches the gap where he knocked out

his tooth.

Chuck shakes his head:  no.  She scrapes behind his front

teeth.

Chuck opens his mouth even further.  The technician talks on

in the self-absorbed way dental technicians sometimes do,

that constant babble of human contact which Chuck has not

heard for four years.

Chuck nods.  I follow you.

Chuck does.  Stan bursts into the room.

Chuck struggles out of the chair.

They are both almost overcome.  Stan holds Chuck by the

shoulders and looks at him.

Chuck laughs, thrilled to see Stan.

Stan notices the technician.

He says this with an absolute straight face, holding back the

laughter with great effort.  Instantly there's this

connection again between him and Stan.

And he and Chuck make eye contact and we see a glimpse of

their shared unspoken irony.

Chuck stares sharply at him.  Kelly?  Stan nods, but there's

something he wants to say.

That's not all Stan wants to say.  But Chuck is limping out

the door.

INT.  DENTIST - WAITING ROOM

Typical dentist waiting room.  Chairs, tropical fish tanks,

magazines, a few waiting patients...and Kelly, looking

nervous.

Slowly and painfully Chuck enters.  He's quite a sight.  She

stands up.  There's a long moment where they look at each

other.

Then she comes into his arms.  Holds him tight.  She's part

laughing, part crying.

Chuck is happy, he's still riding the high.

Well, maybe a little, but who cares?  He hasn't been hugged

or barely touched in so long.

She disengages, looks at him with that old smile.

He meets her gaze, looks her over with a smile.

He notices the ring on her hand.

His responses come so quick.  Chuck seems blissfully sure of

himself.

Kelly nods.

Kelly fishes for a photo, shows it to Chuck.  It's a little

girl with a dog.

Chuck laughs.  It is funny, sort of.

Stan appears, takes in the scene.  The few patients waiting

are edged into the corners, trying to look occupied with

something else.

EXT.  HAWAII - DAY

Chuck's raft sits up on a dock.  Kelly stands staring at it.

How small and fragile it looks.

Stan examines the ropes around the logs.

Kelly points at something on the raft.

He's not feeling sorry for himself.  It's just a fact.

They look at the tiny raft.  It speaks for itself.

Kelly notices the sail, sees the writing on it.

Kelly reads it to herself.  Her eyes are moist.

And he seems really to believe it.

And he leaves.

This interests Chuck to no end.

He tries to put it into words, isn't quite sure how.

Kelly looks down at the raft.  It's so small.

He has something more to say.  She waits.

And that's the point, isn't it?  We are social animals.  No

man is an island.

And the laughter comes again.  Kelly grins, embarrassed, a

little worried.

She stares at his face, reaches out, touches it again, this

time with great tenderness.

He nods, her touch feels so good.

A wave of emotion comes over her:  pity?  love?

We hear a distant beep-beep, discrete as a car horn can be.

They hold each other.  For a long time.

Chuck grins.

Then she heads for the waiting car.  Chuck stands by his

raft, watching her go.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Chuck and Stan ride on the plane.  Chuck is coming down off

his survival high.  He has the Angel Wing FedEx package with

him.

Stan pulls a flask out of his bag.

Stan takes two glasses from his bag, rests them on a FedEx

container, and pours the whiskey.

Stan hoists his glass.

Now's when Stan gets to the question he's been wanting to

ask, that Kelly wanted to know, that we all want to know.

Chuck stares at him.

Stan looks over at him.

Stan sits back, repulsed but relieved.

He pours another drink.

He takes a sip of his drink, just savoring it, thinking.

All those things Stan used to tell him.

He thinks some more.

He looks out the window.

And Chuck has.  Big time.

EXT.  MEMPHIS AIRPORT - NIGHT

A FedEx MD-11 lands.

EXT.  MEMPHIS SUPERHUB - MOMENTS LATER

The MD-11 taxis up.  As usual, the SuperHub is a frenzy of

activity.  A loading crew stands ready, forklifts poised.

Even this plane carries packages.

PHIL STEELE, the chairman of FedEx, Leslie, Becca, Dick, and

other executives wait on a special podium near the gangway.

Everyone looks different -- older, a mustache here, a

thickening around the belly there.

Behind a barrier a cluster of cameras film the scene.

The plane cuts its engine.  The stairs are rolled out.

Forklifts and gangways move forward.  Cargo doors open.

Chuck appears in the door.  He holds the FedEx Package and a

small travel bag.

Chuck blinks against the lights and the glare.  Stan is right

by him.  Everyone bursts into APPLAUSE AND CHEERING.

After four years of total solitude this is completely

overwhelming.

Chuck smiles.

And Chuck waves.  He's overwhelmed by all the input.  Stan

steers Chuck down the steps as the cheers continue.

At the bottom of the steps Roger steps forward.  The two

brothers embrace each other.  After a moment Roger

disengages.  Mary gives Chuck a hug.

He looks around at the crowds.

Stan nudges Chuck.  Time to go to the podium.

Stan and Chuck head for the podium.  All the loaders and

operators and package scanners begin to applaud.  Chuck

smiles, then laughs, getting into the emotion.  He keeps up

an almost indecipherable babble underneath the cheering.

Occasionally he sees someone he knows.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - WIDE

Chuck makes his triumphant way through this amazing

collection of cheering people like Moses parting the Red Sea.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - PLATFORM

With a big smile Phil Steele holds out his hand to Chuck.

He steps to the microphone and addresses the SuperHub.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - SERIES OF SHOTS

All over the SuperHub, belts come to a halt.  Forklifts stop.

Tracking stations shut down.  The vast flow of packages is

suddenly still.  The incredible din of activity is suddenly

quiet.  The stillness and the silence are unexpected and

palpable.  Thousands of workers stop as well, staring either

up at Chuck directly or at his image on video screens.  We

hear Phil's voice piped in.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - PLATFORM

Phil holds a plaque.

As he talks, we stay on Chuck, who is taking in this amazing

scene, not really listening.

He hands the plaque to Chuck.  Chuck acknowledges the cheers

of the crowd.

Everyone applauds.

He laughs, a short brittle laugh, composes himself.

He looks over at the hub.

He points at some high tech equipment on the edge of the

shed.

He looks around at everyone, doesn't know what else to say.

The tension is broken.  Everyone laughs.  Phil Steele motions

with his hand.  Let it be done.

ANOTHER ANGLE - WIDE

The vast, incredible machinery creaks to a start.  Everyone

shakes Chuck's hand as he leaves the podium.

As he heads for the car, REPORTERS shout questions.

INT.  CAR - MEMPHIS FREEWAY

We are assaulted by a surge of light, motion, activity.

Snaking lines of traffic in both directions, big overpasses,

the city rising beyond.

Stan drives with a certain aggressiveness.  Chuck looks out

at the traffic, at all the activity, at the vast intricate

anthill of humanity going everywhere and nowhere.

He swerves into another lane.

He grins, cuts across to the exit.

Chuck stares at him.  Are you kidding?

Right.

INT.  OPERATIONS CENTER - DAY

Stan and Chuck are in the office of a TECHNICIAN who is

working away at his computer.  The Technician pulls the bar

code from the Angel Wing FedEx box up on his computer screen.

He works some keys, waits.

He holds out a badge.

He starts to pull up the data.

EXT.  CHUCK'S MOTEL - THAT NIGHT

Chuck leaves the motel, the Angel Box under his arm.  He ties

it into a pannier on the side of a bicycle.

EXT.  MEMPHIS - CHICKASAW GARDENS - NIGHT

Chuck sneaks up to a craftsman cottage and stands by a tree

with a swing on it.  Inside we see Kelly making dinner for

her husband, who plays with their daughter.  For a moment

Chuck watches through the window, and we watch with him.

Then the dog begins to bark.

EXT.  CEMETERY - NIGHT

Chuck walks through the cemetery late at night.  He comes to

his gravestone, stares for a long moment at the inscription,

then takes out a spray can of paint and puts a HANDPRINT on

it.

He gets back on his bicycle and rides away.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY

Chuck rides his bicycle down a road leading into the South.

EXT.  FREEWAY - DAY

Chuck negotiates an overpass crossing an Interstate Highway.

Headed in both directions, cars whoosh by beneath him.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DUSK - LATER

Chuck rides down a narrow road, shrouded in mist.  Moss drips

from the trees reaching over the road.  A car goes by.  Then

another, their lights like halos in the fog.  It's a mystical

scene, a passage.

EXT.  ARKANSAS - NIGHT

Chuck gets off his bicycle in the rain and walks toward a

roadside cafe.

INT.  CAFE - NIGHT

Chuck draws on a paper place mat as he waits for his meal at

a counter.  Above the counter the television plays.

The waitress sets a plate down in front of Chuck, turns to

watch.

On the TV we see an Australian correspondent standing on

Chuck's beach.

Chuck is staring at the screen, seeing his cave, seeing all

those years.

On the screen we see a photograph of Chuck.

The waitress looks over at Chuck.  The other clients look at

him too.

The waitress comes over.

Chuck looks down at his doodling.  Hesitates.  Then signs his

name.

INT.  TYSON'S CHICKEN - ARKANSAS - DAY

Thousands of chicken carcasses hanging on hooks circle

through the huge processing plant, a vast structure on the

scale of the SuperHub or the Hospital.

Chuck's Mom, dressed in white with a hairnet, enters a

windowed office in the b.g.  Through the window we see her

hug Chuck.

INT.  TYSON'S CHICKEN - OFFICE - ARKANSAS - DAY

We are in the office now.  Chuck's Mom's eyes are moist.

INT.  FRAME HOUSE - ARKANSAS - DAY

Chuck eats a Southern fried drumstick.  The table is full of

home-cooked food.

Chuck gestures, no, I'm full.  She puts down the spoon.

He looks around the house, everything in its place.  His

mother has been here for forty years.  There's a big crack

running down from the ceiling.

She studies him for a moment.

He does, but that's not it entirely.

She looks at him.  She knows her boy.

She looks at him, thinks about this.

EXT.  ARKANSAS - DAY

Chuck rides away from the small neat frame house, down a

country lane with trailers up on blocks.

EXT.  GULF COAST - DAY

Chuck leaves a cheap motel as the sun comes up.

EXT.  MISSISSIPPI GULF COAST - DAY - LATER

Chuck rides on a ferry, the wind blowing his face.  The sky

is gray and drizzly.  He smells the salt water.  Watches the

waves.

EXT.  GAS STATION - DAY

Chuck asks for directions.  A kid in baggy pants and no shirt

points him down the road.

EXT.  GAS STATION - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck pulls some clothes out of his saddle bags.

EXT.  GAS STATION - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck emerges from the restroom wearing a FedEx shirt and

shorts.

EXT.  BEACH HOUSE - HOUR LATER

A classic beach house.  Sand dunes, stilts.  Carrying the

Angel Wing Box under his arm, Chuck checks the address in his

hand.  Mounts the steps.  A light mist falls.  You can see

the Gulf behind the house, gray and moody.

A WOMAN, BETTINA, answers the door -- THE woman from the

beginning.  She wears cut-off jeans and a blue work shirt

covered with paint.  There's a tattoo on her ankle.

The woman stares in disbelief at the package she hasn't seen

in years and never expected to see again.

Chuck displays a FedEx badge.

Bettina notices Chuck's bicycle.

Bettina stares at the package, her own memories coming back.

She holds the box and studies him for a long moment.

Something -- the look on his face, the extraordinary

reappearance of this long-lost package -- makes her curious.

She lets Chuck in the door.

INT.  HOUSE - DAY

Ladders.  Scaffolds.  Huge paintings are everywhere.

Paintings of wings and angels -- like the package.  Chuck

stares at them.  Bettina watches Chuck stare.

INT.  KITCHEN - LATER

Bettina pours some coffee.  The package sits in the counter.

Some magazines are spread around, including a People Magazine

with Chuck's photograph on the cover.

They smile awkwardly at each other.  She starts to open it.

She's opened the package.  She pulls out the bottles of salsa

and the letter.

There is a moment where neither knows what to say.

Her eyes start to register recognition.  She glances at the

magazine with Chuck's picture on it.  She picks it up.

Chuck thinks about that.  After a moment, he grins.

Chuck sits back on the couch, taking in the sight of the

ocean in the light rain.  He looks over at all the canvases,

the easel, the palettes.  The wind rustles the palm trees

around the house.  The surf crashes and rustles.  Familiar

sounds.  Island sounds.

He relaxes a little.  Maybe the package with the wings was a

sign, he kept it all these years precisely for this.  Then

there's a sound of a truck in the driveway.

The engine cuts off.  There are steps on the porch.  The door

opens.  A tanned muscular MAN in neatly kept work clothes

comes in, hangs a tool belt on a hook by the door.

He looks at Chuck with a relaxed, even stare, as if seeing a

man in a FedEx uniform sitting on his couch is not an unusual

occurrence.

The Man nods at Chuck, goes into the kitchen.  We are on

Chuck's face.  Who's this?  We hear muffled laughter from

inside.

EXT.  BEACH HOUSE - HOUR LATER

Arms around each other, the Man and the Woman say goodbye to

Chuck.  In the front yard is a panel truck painted with two

angel wings.  The Man grins at Chuck, an easy, friendly grin.

Bettina hands Chuck a sheet of paper.

He takes it, not exactly sure he wants it.

EXT.  BEACH HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck rides his bicycle away, along the shore.

EXT.  BEACH - MINUTES LATER

Chuck rides along the beach.  Up ahead we see a FedEx truck.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck gets off his bike as a female FEDEX DRIVER puts chocks

under the wheels, which have stuck in the sand.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck pushes on the truck as the driver gives it gas.  The

truck slowly pulls back onto the pavement.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

The Driver gets out of the truck with a grin.  She has an

open, friendly face.  There's an instant connection between

them.

Looks at his uniform.  At the bike.

Where is he from, anyway?

He picks up his bike.

INT.  FEDEX TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

The FedEx truck makes its way down the beach, Chuck in his

uniform, the Driver in hers.  Two FedEx people in a truck.

The Driver looks over at Chuck.

They smile at each other.  Then she smiles a little more.

Erica laughs.

And that makes Chuck laugh, really laugh, for the first time.

She looks over at him with a grin.

There's a connection building here, effortlessly.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

We are wide on the beach, watching the truck move along the

water, kicking up wisps of sand.

The truck goes down the beach and then turns inland, away

from the ocean.  Away from all that.

And we pull back, taking in the sweep of the beach, the

estuaries, and the green forest stretching back into America.

The end is the beginning.

FADE OUT.

