FADE IN: SERIES OF ESTABLISHING SHOTS - DAY

Exterior scenes of St. Louis, particularly the riverside

industrial district. Even more important to establish than

the place is the time: end of summer, 1936. Election posters

would help, with the Republican ones stressing such themes

as "Burst the Roosevelt Bubble," "Save the American Way of

Life," "Vote for Landon and Knox."

EXT. FACTORY - DAY

One of the most typical scenes of the day: a mass picket

line outside a textile or shoe factory. And the picketing is

anything but peaceful; the demonstrators are in direct

conflict with the police, who are trying to keep an entrance

open for strike-breakers. Whatever the general action, a

small segment of struggle breaks off from it, and it is this

that our CAMERA picks up: some police chasing some pickets

or some pickets chasing some strike-breakers, the one faction

pursuing the other up an alley with violent intent.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

A couple of the pursuers catch up to the pursued and assault

them with clubs or other weapons. The fighting is bitter,

dirty and noisy.

INT. KITCHEN IN SLEAZY RESTAURANT NEAR RAILROAD

The eight men gathered here in a game of five-card stud are

clearly removed from the struggle outside, even though the

SOUNDS of it are very close, coming through window opening

on the alley. In fact the noise is so loud that the DEALER

of the hand in progress reacts in annoyance.

The player nearest the window shuts it. The Dealer, who also

owns the restaurant, is the talkative type of poker player.

Except for THE CINCINNATI KID, the other men at the table

look like hoods of one sort or another: gunmen, labor spies,

extortionists, what have you. The man who fancies himself

the toughest of them all is named DANNY, and he and The Kid

have almost all the money on the table between them, about a

hundred dollars in front of each. No other player has more

than a few dollars left, and now, as fifth cards are dealt,

there is about forty dollars in the pot. Only four men are

left in the hand.

He turns over his cards, leaving it up to The Kid.

He counts out the money, which is almost all he has.

Attending to first things first, The Kid has been pulling in

the pot, adding it to his own stake, and pocketing the total.

Now as Danny accuses him again, The Kid looks him squarely

in the face.

He stands up.

He walks off, disappearing through a door marked "MEN."

INT. MEN'S ROOM - THE KID AT MIRROR

He is waiting when the door opens abruptly, and Danny appears,

his right hand in his coat pocket. The Kid's hand goes to

his own pocket and as he whirls around, a straight razor

appears in it, its blade snapped open. Pushing Danny to the

wall with one hand, he keeps him pinned there with the razor

in the other, while he bolts the door. Danny gets his right

hand out of the pocket with a gun in it, but The Kid moves

the razor blade against his neck.

As the gun clatters to the floor, and the others force the

door, The Kid takes a step backward to provide enough

momentum, then swings at Danny's middle with his left,

dropping him, then jumps up on the wash basin and wriggles

his way out through a window.

SUPERIMPOSE: MAIN TITLES

Danny recovers his balance and his gun, unbolts the door

just before it is smashed in, and runs with the others to

get out of the building and after The Kid.

EXT. ALLEY BACK OF RESTAURANT - DAY

The conflicting parties from the picket lines have moved on.

The Kid drops from the window to the ground and starts to

run toward the railroad yards. A few moments later, Danny

and four other poker players appear and run after him.

EXT. RAILROAD YARDS - DAY

The chase across the tracks goes on behind the Credits. The

Kid's pursuers split into two groups to cut him off, and

they seem to have succeeded in cornering him against a track

on which a passenger train is bearing down, headed for the

station. His dubious chance of escape depends on his getting

beyond this track in front of the train, which, with a burst

of speed, he manages to accomplish just in time. The passenger

train divides The Kid from his pursuers, and we PAN with the

train into the depot.

INT. UNION STATION, ST. LOUIS

The train slowly stops. Amid all the atmosphere of arrival

in a day when the Pullman car was still the ultimate in

travel, LANCEY HODGES appears on a platform, takes his bag

from the Pullman porter and passes it on to a Red Cap before

he has descended the steps. He walks with other passengers

and Red Caps toward the center of the station.

EXT. UNION STATION - DAY

Shooting through the Meeting of the Rivers fountain across

Market Street to the Romanesque building with its campanile.

EXT. UNION STATION - TAXI STAND - DAY

Lancey getting into a taxi.

THE CREDITS END

INT. TAXI - PROCESS - DAY

Lancey sits in serene repose in back, watching the sights go

by. The HACKIE steals a couple of looks at him in the rear

vision mirror.

EXT. PLUSH HOTEL - TAXI STAND - DAY

A doorman takes Lancey's suitcase as Lancey pays the Hackie

and walks into the hotel. A SECOND HACKIE whose cab is at

the curb reacts to seeing Lancey and steps forward.

But the second hackie has followed Lancey into the hotel.

INT. LOBBY OF PLUSH HOTEL

Lancey crosses to the desk to register as the Second Hackie

goes to a row of phone booths and enters one. He dials with

his eyes on Lancey registering.

INT. BOWLING ALLEY - ATTENDANT

He is talking on the phone while he hands out score sheets

and shoes to some bowlers. He is just as excited by the report

as the Hackie is.

INT. BAR - FEATURING THE BARTENDER

He is talking on the telephone behind the bar.

INT. BAR - CLOSE SHOT - DRINKING MAN

He reacts to the news in a big way. CAMERA PANS to another

DRINKING MAN, who is equally impressed. They exchange looks.

INT. BARBER SHOP - BARBER AND CUSTOMER

INT. HOBAN'S POOL ROOM - HOBAN AND THE SHOOTER

We are in the front room where the pool tables are. Through

an open door in b.g., we can see the unadvertised but

unconcealed other activity of the establishment: a poker

game in progress.

The Kid enters the place through the front door, still a

little dishevelled from his escape.

INT. LANCEY'S HOTEL ROOM

Lancey is on the phone, sitting on the bed.

He hangs up and some of the strength seems to go out of him,

as if he had been through too long a sustained effort. His

eyes show that he is feeling pain and he breathes deeply.

EXT. HAROLD STREET - DAY

Harold Street leads to the river and we follow The Kid and

The Shooter as they walk down it in the gathering dusk.

They walk along, The Shooter pursing his lips thoughtfully.

The Kid nods as they come to where an old wooden pier extends

into the river. Along the river bank can be seen a small

portion of the mile-long Hooverville that stretches up and

down the Mississippi.

EXT. PIER

They walk out on the pier and eventually stop, look out at

the river, watching the working boats. They have their

thoughts; The Shooter smoking his cigar.

They start back off the pier.

Ahead, on the levee, CHRISTIAN is seen waiting for The Kid.

She has not yet seen them as they approach off the pier.

Christian sees them and moves toward them.

Shooter turns away abruptly as Christian arrives, giving her

a brief nod.

The Kid takes Christian's arm automatically; he watches The

Shooter walk way down Harold Street. He and Christian head

in another direction. She is humming a mountain tune.

She is surprised by this and, in her own hesitant way,

curious.

He looks at her fondly and, for one fleeting moment of

weakness, is actually tempted to tell her about Lancey. But

it is too sharp a break with tradition.

INT. KID'S BEDROOM

It is night and the room is lit only by a single lamp where

Christian sits in her nightgown on a chair by the window,

turning over the pages of a mail-order catalogue. In f.g.

The Kid lies on his back under a sheet on the bed, his eyes

closed and his hands clasped tensely behind his neck. He

opens his eyes and turns to look at her. The movement catches

her eye, and she instantly stops turning the pages, afraid

the noise has disturbed him.

She waits at the foot of the bed for him to come slowly to a

decision.

She goes into the bathroom, where she turns the water on

gently so the tub will take a long while to fill. Then she

takes a bottle of alcohol from the medicine chest and returns

to the bedroom with it. She stands in front of him waiting

for him to move, but The Kid is singularly listless. Not

till she sets the bottle down does he respond by turning his

face to the pillow. She goes right to work on his shoulder

muscles, and she seems to know what she is doing.

She slaps him on the rump and straightens up.

He doesn't move but just stays relaxed and closes his eyes.

INT. BATHROOM

Christian, humming softly, turns off the water, takes a large

towel from a rack and puts it on a stool by the tub where it

will be more convenient for him. She lingers to test the

water with her finger and do anything else she can think of

to assure maximum comfort for her man. Then she steps back

into the bedroom. The sight of him makes her advance

cautiously and confirm her suspicion that he is asleep.

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT

MELBA, The Shooter's woman, is sitting up in bed working on

her eyebrows and listening to MUSIC turned up LOUD on a radio.

The bedside phone RINGS, barely audible above the radio. She

answers it.

She gets no answer, which is no wonder in view of the noise

from the radio. But the radio is across the room and it's

slightly easier for her to get out of the side of the bed

she's on, and go to the door of The Shooter's room. She opens

this and we see The Shooter in bed in his own small quarters,

reading a magazine. He turns around inquiringly.

The Shooter picks up the phone but before he speaks into it,

he pantomimes to her that he won't be able to hear over the

radio. She seems to regard the request as an imposition but

she does go grudgingly to the radio and turns it down a little

before she returns to her bed and her cosmetic chore.

INT. LANCEY'S HOTEL ROOM

Lancey, dressed for bed, is on the phone.

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT

The Shooter sits down on the edge of Melba's bed, the movement

jostling her so she pricks herself with her tweezers. She

exclaims in protest and gives him a dirty look that makes

The Shooter stand right up again.

INT. LANCEY'S HOTEL ROOM

He hangs up the phone, settles himself in a comfortable chair,

and opens a heavy book. CAMERA MOVES in CLOSE enough to reveal

the title: Prescott's CONQUEST OF PERU.

INT. KID'S APARTMENT

It is midday outside but the window shades are tightly drawn

to keep the daylight from disturbing The Kid, who is still

asleep. Christian, dressed for the street, moves from the

bedroom to the kitchen-living room which is the remainder of

the two-room apartment. Finding paper and pencil, she writes

a quick note and leaves it on the kitchen table, then starts

out.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. DEPARTMENT STORE WINDOW - DAY

featuring one bathing suit displayed among others in an end-

of-season sale with some such advertising message as "All

bathing suits reduced 1/3 for clearance!" The particular

suit is a two-piece one, exposing two or three inches of

bare midriff -- the first modest forerunner of the trend

that led eventually to the bikini.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Christian and Melba looking at

the display.

They start walking.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. STEAM ROOM

CAMERA finds Christian and Melba among the perspiring females.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. MASSAGE ROOM

Christian and Melba are on adjoining rubbing tables, a curtain

separating them from the waist down only. Their heads are

close enough so they can talk without their masseurs

necessarily hearing every word they say.

She is at a loss for a word.

Christian looks blank.

INT. ROOM IN PLUSH HOTEL

Lancey, Shooter and five other men are sitting in comfortably

padded chairs around a well-appointed poker table. Everything

about the game is in sharp contrast to the one The Kid played

in. It is played with chips - expensive ones; there are a

couple of bottles of wine on ice, fine cigars, a tray of

sandwiches, etc. Lancey's opponents are all wealthy types;

two of them could be Texas oil men. The youngest, a good-

looking man of thirty, is BILL SCHLAEGEL. The Shooter, as

nonplaying dealer, distributes fifth cards to the four

remaining players in the hand, and both Lancey and Bill end

up with four cards of one suit showing.

Bill silently tosses in two of the rarest and highest ranking

chips on the table.

A phone RINGS and the Third Wealthy Type answers it.

The Third Wealthy Type takes the phone and speaks on it during

the ensuing. The Second Wealthy Type crosses to the bar and

fixes himself a drink. Lancey takes in his winnings. Bill

hasn't recovered from the blow. There is a hiatus in the

game.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

It is early evening. The Kid approaches the restaurant with

Christian on one arm, Melba on the other.

She smiles at them both and goes off. They move to enter the

restaurant.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. RESTAURANT - KID AND CHRISTIAN

The plates with the remains of their main course are in front

of them. The Kid pours what's left of a bottle of beer into

his glass.

She lowers her eyes, finding it hard to say the words.

He looks o.s. raising a hand to summon the check.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. KID'S APARTMENT - DARKENED WINDOW

It is dark in the room and dark outside, the street lamps

furnishing only enough light for a faint border around the

window shade. Christian's head and nude back move into the

Shot; she pulls the shade aside to look out.

LONG SHOT - ILLUMINATED CLOCK - CHRISTIAN'S P.O.V. - NIGHT

The time is a few minutes before ten.

INT. KID'S APARTMENT - CHRISTIAN

She lets the shade fall back into place. Moving quietly in

the darkness, she begins to dress. CAMERA PULLS BACK and

PANS to include The Kid, lying on the bed with a sheet over

him. He seems to be asleep until he speaks.

Christian abandons the process of dressing herself and sits

down in the easy chair to answer this question.

She doesn't comment one way or the other, nor does he press

the point.

She gets up and begins to pack her clothes in an old suitcase.

After a moment The Kid gets out of bed.

She closes the suitcase and puts on the one dress she hasn't

packed. The Kid, dressed now, watches her for a moment then

goes to the bottom drawer of the dresser and opens it to

reveal a stack of money under a shirt. He takes five clean

twenty-dollar bills and counts them on to the top of the

dresser, snapping the crisp leaves gambler style. Then he

stoops down again and takes out two more twenties, adding

them to the pile.

He doesn't actually hand her the money. He leaves it on top

of the dresser and she goes over and takes it, folding the

bills and putting them in her change purse. The Kid picks up

her suitcase, and she leads the way into the other room. At

the front door she stops and looks back at the little

apartment for a moment.

She looks at him for a moment, then exits. He follows.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. TAXI - PROCESS - NIGHT

The Kid and Christian sit in silence. She puts her hand on

his.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. BUS TERMINAL

The Kid and Christian sit on a bench in the waiting room,

still silent. He has her suitcase between his legs and a

pile of magazines on his lap. She looks at a clock and gets

to her feet. He follows her to the door, carrying the suitcase

and magazines.

EXT. BUS PLATFORM - NIGHT

Christian boards a bus that has seen better days. On the

steps she turns to take the bag from him, but he follows her

on.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

Christian takes a seat. The Kid puts her suitcase in the

overhead rack and hands her the magazines, none of which

would be classed as heavy reading.

They don't kiss. He turns and goes out.

EXT. BUS PLATFORM - NIGHT

There are not many passengers boarding this bus. After a

couple of moments, the driver closes the door and starts

off. Christian waves from the window, and The Kid waves back

to her. When the bus has gone, he walks around the outside

of the terminal to the front.

EXT. FRONT OF BUS TERMINAL - NIGHT

There are a couple of cabs at a taxi stand. One of the hackies

offers his services to The Kid, but The Kid declines. He

wants to walk.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. ROOM IN PLUSH HOTEL

It is midday and the poker game is almost twenty- four hours

old. Our attention is focused on Bill Schlaegel, who is

writing out a check.

The Shooter takes advantage of the lull in the proceedings

to move to the telephone.

Lancey gives him a quick look, finding this a bit thick.

Bill puts his check down in front of The Shooter's place,

and gets to his feet.

CAMERA MOVES with Bill as he passes The Shooter, who is

waiting on the phone while the hotel operator dials his

number. Bill gives him a friendly pat on the back, and speaks

in a low, harsh voice for The Shooter's ears alone.

Bill goes out. Shooter looks after him as his party comes on

the phone.

INT. KID'S APARTMENT

INT. PLUSH HOTEL ROOM

He hangs up, returns to the table and starts to shuffle the

cards in his own spectacular way.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. BUSCH STADIUM, ST. LOUIS - DAY

A game is in progress between the Cardinals and another

National League club. The batter at the plate connects for a

long one. CAMERA FOLLOWS the flight of the ball.

EXT. STANDS - THE KID AND MELBA

They are making their way to meet their friends in the section

they prefer. They stop to watch the ball as the fans around

them rise to their feet. The section they have just reached

is in the sun, overlooking the outfield.

EXT. FIELD

An outfielder races back and makes a difficult catch.

EXT. STANDS - THE KID AND MELBA

They start on their way again. CAMERA PANS ahead of them to

a group consisting of Hoban; HOBAN'S WOMAN, still sexy in

her forties; PIG, whose name could derive with equal

justification from either his looks or his manners; and SOKAL,

who talks colloquial American with a Central European accent.

The group as a whole is notable because its members have not

risen to their feet with everyone else, because all the men

are basking in the sun with their shirts off, because they

view the action on the field with detachment, and because,

nevertheless, they are constantly placing bets on details of

the game. Now, as people around them resume their seats,

Sokal is able to confirm that the fly ball has been caught.

The Kid and Melba join them.

He and Melba sit down.

While he is talking, Melba unbuttons his shirt.

He takes his shirt off. Melba finds some suntan lotion in

her bag, and applies it to her face and arms, her eyes rarely

straying from The Kid.

EXT. BALL FIELD

The bunt is fielded by the first baseman, who throws to second

for the out. There is no play at first.

Without waiting for his approval, she goes ahead and spreads

the lotion on his skin, painstakingly, as if she were applying

paint to canvas, working it in, one area at a time, with her

fingertips.

The men concentrate their attention on the diamond. CAMERA

MOVES IN to Melba's fingers playing across The Kid's midriff.

From the field comes the sharp CRACK of a bat against a ball,

followed by a SHOUT from the crowd. CAMERA PANS UP to the

faces of Melba and The Kid as he looks at her and she meets

his gaze with inviting eyes.

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT - CLOSEUP - MELBA

With the same look of invitation in her eyes.

CAMERA PULLS BACK. Wearing the same clothes as at the ball

park, she is sitting in a chair with her legs tucked under

her. The Kid is sitting on a straight chair at a table on

which he has a cup of coffee. They are alone in the apartment.

He stands up but doesn't move toward her.

The Kid stays where he is as she comes up against him.

He kisses her and lets himself enjoy it for a while, then

pulls away.

INT. ROOM IN PLUSH HOTEL

The poker game is over. Two of the Wealthy Types have already

departed; one is finishing a drink on the way out; another

is putting his winnings into his wallet; a third is writing

out a check. Lancey and The Shooter still sit at the table

in f.g.

INT. CORRIDOR, PLUSH HOTEL - FELIX

He is standing by an elevator in f.g. keeping watch on a row

of room doors including the site of the poker game. FELIX is

an impressive physical specimen whose capacity for brutality

is masked by a quiet, deferential manner. When he sees a

door open, he moves so as to be out of The Shooter's sight

as the latter comes toward him. It isn't until The Shooter

rounds the corner in f.g. and presses the button for the

elevator that Felix makes his presence known.

The doors of the elevator open. Felix yields precedence to

The Shooter and they enter it. The doors close.

INT. LOBBY, PLUSH HOTEL - AT THE ELEVATORS

An elevator opens, and The Shooter and Felix come out.

CAMERA MOVES with them as The Shooter leads the way to a row

of telephone booths and enters one.

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT - MELBA AND THE KID

They are sitting at the table in a game of casino. She plays

an ace from her hand, adds a seven from the board, and lays

them both on top of a three-card pile.

He plays an eight and takes in the whole pile.

The telephone RINGS. She stands up.

CAMERA FOLLOWS her to the phone. She picks it up.

She reaches a hand around to the back of her neck, fiddles

with her dress a moment, then beckons in The Kid's direction.

CLOSE SHOT - THE KID

He doesn't understand what she wants but he gets up and comes

to her obligingly, CAMERA MOVING with him.

She points to the hook-and-eye fastener at the top of the

zipper that runs down the back of her dress. The Kid

pantomimes the question "What for?" but she just wiggles her

finger impatiently at the fastener while speaking into the

phone.

The Kid still doesn't know what she has in mind but it seems

easier to humor her than not. He unfastens the hook. Melba

smiles her thanks and, to his consternation, reaches back

and pulls the zipper all the way down. She places her hand

over the mouth-piece of the phone.

She steps out of the dress.

INT. PHONE BOOTH, PLUSH HOTEL - THE SHOOTER

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT - MELBA AND THE KID

Melba in her bra and panties, snuggles against The Kid.

INT. PHONE BOOTH, PLUSH HOTEL - THE SHOOTER

He hangs up the phone and emerges from the booth. CAMERA

MOVES with him as he joins Felix and they walk toward the

hotel entrance.

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT - MELBA AND THE KID

The Kid, his policy toward this new situation still

unresolved, holds her lightly while he tries to think it out

aloud.

She invites a kiss and he obliges her. But there is a contrary

force at work inside him.

Again she presses close to him and again he savors her for a

moment.

He starts out. Melba stares after him, scarcely able to

believe what is being done to her.

EXT. SCHLAEGEL ESTATE - DAY

An expensive automobile, with Felix at the wheel and The

Shooter next to him in the front seat, approaches the main

house of a lavish estate in a St. Louis suburb. It continues

along the driveway past the house.

EXT. AREA AROUND SWIMMING POOL - CLOSE - BILL AND BABY

In swimming trunks, Bill is spoon-feeding a year-old BABY in

a highchair. Looking o.s., he waves in greeting to The

Shooter.

EXT. SCHLAEGEL ESTATE - THE SHOOTER

He walks from the parked car toward the pool, returning Bill's

salutation.

EXT. AREA AROUND POOL

SHOOTING from behind The Shooter as he approaches the

attractive family group that includes, besides Bill and the

baby, a FIVE-YEAR-OLD GIRL who is having her hair brushed

after swimming by ROSANNA SCHLAEGEL, her beautiful mother. A

family dog completes the picture. Bill continues to feed the

baby as he hails The Shooter.

As she goes off, Rosanna cautions June about her hair.

As soon as his wife is gone, Bill goes right to the topic he

doesn't want to discuss in her presence.

CAMERA MOVES to include Rosanna carrying a tray with glasses

and a pitcher full of Bloody Marys.

INT. KID'S APARTMENT - CLOSE SHOT - WINDOW - DAY

It is raining dismally.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - THE KID

He is lying on one half of the bed, with the covers thrown

back, his hands clasped behind his head, wearing pajama

bottoms. He turns his head and stares at the white expanse

of unoccupied bed.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. ST. LOUIS STREET - DAY

The weather is clear as The Kid wanders idly along a

residential street of well-kept nineteenth century buildings.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. BAR - THE KID

He is drinking a bottle of beer slowly. CAMERA PANS to another

bar stool where a customer is having his shoes shined by a

NEGRO BOY who slaps his rag against the shoes with a fine

sense of rhythm. Finished, he collects his dime and nickel

tip, and moves to The Kid.

The Boy takes out a tobacco can with the lid torn off and

the top flattened down and shakes it, producing a sound like

the rustle of dry leaves. Then he produces a similar can

that makes a rattling noise when he shakes it.

The Boy looks at the BARTENDER, who has moved closer to see

what's going on.

The Boy stands perfectly still for a few seconds, then begins

to shake the can with corn in it. After a bit he brings in

the shale stone can with the other hand to chord and accent

the rustle of the first can.

At the same time he begins to sing a simple song in a pure,

delicate voice. It is catfish music created on the spot and

sounds strangely like the idle tunes Christian likes to hum.

He rings up a NO SALE and flips a dime to The Boy, who is

astonished and then worried by this munificence. Suddenly he

grabs his tobacco cans and his shoe-shine kit, and runs out

into the street.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. STEAM BATHS - THE KID AND JANSEN

JANSEN, a masseur, is at work loosening up The Kid's neck

and shoulders.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. BUS TERMINAL - PHONE BOOTH - THE KID

He is in the middle of a call.

INT. THE SHOOTER'S APARTMENT - MELBA

INT. BUS TERMINAL - THE KID

He hangs up the phone, rather than continue the discussion.

CAMERA FOLLOWS him as he comes out of the booth, picks up a

small duffel bag, and walks to the door that leads to the

busses. He goes out into the night and gets into a bus.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. RURAL HIGHWAY - DAY

A bus drives along a main road in the Ozarks, heading toward

CAMERA. As it comes close, the name of its destination:

"FAYETTEVILLE" can be read.

EXT. CROSSROADS COMMUNITY - DAY

The bus stops momentarily at a small cluster of buildings

around an intersection. The Kid is the only passenger to get

off here. As the bus continues on its way, he goes to an

attendant in a gas station on one corner, and asks a question.

Referred to a general store and post office on another corner,

he crosses and goes into it. The STOREKEEPER comes back

outside with him to point out the route to where he wants to

go. It is along a dirt road that winds uphill behind the

store. The Kid starts up the road.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. CREST OF ROAD - DAY

The Kid reaches the summit of the hill directly behind the

crossroads, and looks down into the valley between this hill

and the next one. He starts down an even narrower road leading

to a little farm on a hillock in the valley. It consists of

a modest cabin, a single barn, a fenced cow pasture, and a

few cultivated fields.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. CRAIGIE FARM - DAY

Christian comes around a curve in a path on one side of the

house, carrying two five-gallon milk cans slung in a yoke

over her shoulder. A little dog YAPS and runs from the front

door of the house to the front gate. She looks in that

direction and CAMERA MOVES to include The Kid as he unlatches

the gate and walks toward her. After a moment's hesitation,

she moves to meet him, gliding on her bare feet to keep the

water in the cans from slopping out.

She turns toward the side of the house and walks to the

kitchen door. The Kid follows.

INT. CRAIGIE KITCHEN - CHRISTIAN, THE KID AND MRS. CRAIGIE

MRS. CRAIGIE, Christian's mother, opens the door for them,

giving The Kid a sharp, appraising glance.

Christian crosses to the drain sink near the pump and turns

her back. Mrs. Craigie lifts the cans off the yoke on to the

drain board. She and Christian each take a can and pour the

water from it to prime the pump.

The Kid looks at the stove with a couple of large steaming

pots on it, and the table alongside with a half-dozen hampers

of green beans.

As soon as they are finished with the pump, Mrs. Craigie and

Christian turn to the table, where they begin to snip stems

and cut beans before putting them into the pots on the stove.

The Kid looks quickly at her and then at Mrs. Craigie, who

keeps her gaze fixed on the beans.

EXT. CRAIGIE BARN - CRAIGIE - DAY

He is pitching manure from all over the cow-lot into a pile

banked against the side of the barn, working a long-handled

shovel with practised ease. He looks o.s. and sees The Kid

approaching but continues his work as The Kid enters the

SHOT. Nor does he stop shoveling while they are talking,

except at moments of particular significance to him.

The Kid looks at him a long moment then --

Craigie takes a couple of steps toward The Kid, his boots

sucking in the muddy ground.

The Kid takes his time before deciding how to answer this

one.

Craigie has finished piling the manure. He puts away his

shovel.

Craigie walks away.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. SPRING - DAY

It is a small shack against a rocky bluff. CAMERA PANS

Christian and The Kid as they come down the path and enter.

INT. SHACK

CAMERA MOVES to reveal Christian and The Kid, who are in the

pool without clothes, treading water.

She starts to swim, CAMERA MOVING with her upper back as she

reaches the side of the pool and pulls herself on to the

bank, lying on her stomach. The Kid joins her, first drawing

himself up on his stomach alongside her, then turning on his

back to look through the slats at the sun.

She raises herself up so that she is directly above him.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. CRAIGIE PORCH - CRAIGIE AND THE KID - NIGHT

The two men are sitting just outside the kitchen, where Mrs.

Craigie and Christian are pasting labels on the mason jars

they filled earlier. The paste and some of the jars are just

inside an open window on a shelf behind the men's heads. The

light comes from a kerosene lamp inside.

The Kid stands up and selects six playing cards from a deck

in his pocket. During the next few lines he uses the paste

on the shelf to stick together three pairs of them so as to

form three double-thick cards. One of these has two faces,

another two backs, and the third a back and a face.

He displays his three cards.

The Kid lifts a straw hat off a peg on the porch wall.

Craigie does as instructed. The ensuing dialogue assumes the

card he picks is red on top; if it's white the words "red"

and "white" will be reversed in the dialogue.

INT. CRAIGIE KITCHEN - THE KID

He is lying on a cot in the darkness, next to the big wood-

burning stove. Christian enters the SHOT and slips under the

covers with him.

She is genuinely surprised at this and at first a bit

dismayed. But her more considered reaction is one of pleasure.

She kisses him.

Then they both react as Craigie can be heard getting up.

She gives him a quick kiss and stands up.

(TIME LAPSE)

EXT. CROSSROADS COMMUNITY - NIGHT (PRE-DAWN)

The sun hasn't risen yet as The Kid boards the bus for St.

Louis outside the general store.

EXT. HIGHWAY IN MISSOURI - DAY

The Kid's bus crossing the endless plain in the afternoon

sun.

EXT. ST. LOUIS BUS TERMINAL - NIGHT

The clock above the loading platform says it is a little

after two in the morning as the bus pulls up, and The Kid,

groggy from the long ride, gets out.

INT. KID'S APARTMENT

He enters wearily, goes straight into the bedroom and

collapses on the bed. After a moment he summons the energy

to loosen his shoelaces and kick his shoes off. But that

completes his preparations for sleep.

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT

The Shooter is awake because he can't sleep, and Melba is

awake because she is trying to persuade him to do what she

considers prudent. He sighs deeply as she solicitously pours

him a cup of coffee.

INT. LANCEY'S HOTEL ROOM

Lancey is also awake, confronting a row of medicine bottles.

He finishes laying out an assortment of four different pills

and capsules, pours himself a glass of hot milk from a carafe,

and proceeds to take the pills one at a time, with a sip of

milk after each.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. KID'S APARTMENT

The Kid, looking completely refreshed, is readying himself

for the game. He has chosen casual, comfortable clothes, and

now he collects three items to take with him: a large bottle

of mouthwash, a green sun-vizor, and finally, his stake.

When he withdraws the money from the dresser drawer, we can

see the pile has increased in size. The Kid finds an envelope

to put it in, and he is ready to go. He starts out but in

the middle of the kitchen he stops to look at his watch. It

is too early. He crosses to the stove, pours himself a cup

of coffee, and sits down to drink it.

INT. LANCEY'S HOTEL ROOM

Lancey has decided on a change of costume from his last game,

and this time he goes for the old-fashioned velvet smoking

jacket and silk foulard. Over this he puts on a light

overcoat. Then he assembles medicines, toilet articles and

money, putting them all into a small satchel. Finally, he

puts on his hat and goes to the door.

INT. PLUSH HOTEL CORRIDOR

We follow Lancey's progress as far as the elevator.

INT. SHOOTER'S APARTMENT

Melba and Shooter have finished dressing, and he waits by

the door while she does the inevitable last-minute things to

her makeup.

EXT. CLOCK TOWER - NIGHT

The hands are at 7:25.

INT. TAXI - THE KID AND DRIVER - NIGHT

The Kid is looking at the clock tower.

EXT. SQUARE OUTSIDE DORSET HOTEL - NIGHT

The taxi drives away from CAMERA following The Kid's

instruction. CAMERA PANS to the front of the Dorset Hotel,

which they have just passed. It is fifty years old or more,

no longer elegant but still respectable.

INT. POKER SUITE - LANCEY

He is standing at ease among old friends, sipping a creme de

menthe frappe.

CAMERA MOVES to take in the people around him, one after

another. The Shooter is there, and Pig and Sokal and Hoban,

and Melba and Hoban's woman and a couple of other women whose

main attributes are physical, and Bill Schlaegel. Out of

town representatives include LADY FINGERS, who is about fifty,

down on her luck but still cheerful and remarkably energetic;

and YELLER, a light-skinned Negro who has achieved stature

in what is mainly a white man's world, through diplomacy and

a quick wit. The room is the large living-room of a once

splendid suite; there are enough chairs and couches around

the walls to accommodate a good many spectators, while the

middle of the room has been cleared for a round table with

seven chairs.

Lancey notices that most of the people around him have turned

to look at the doorway. He glances in the same direction in

a casual sort of way.

FEATURING THE KID

He saunters toward Lancey. Almost everyone greets him, and

he responds to as many as he can. Melba intercepts him.

The Kid would like these cryptic words explained, but Lady

Fingers descends on him.

The Kid sees Lancey approaching, and turns to him.

Suddenly they both laugh over a private memory and shake

hands, obviously old friends.

He turns toward the center of the room. The Shooter follows

him.

MED. SHOT - AT POKER TABLE - KID AND SHOOTER

The old, solidly built wooden table has been covered with a

white linen cloth on top of a blanket. The cloth is tied

down under the rim so that the surface of the table is flat,

tight and cushioned by the blanket. The Kid presses his

fingers into it to test these factors.

Lancey comes into the SHOT behind them.

Hoban comes into the SHOT with a dispatch case, which he

sets on the table. He unlocks it with a key and turns it

upside down. Thirty sealed decks of cards spill on the table.

There is a quick exchange of glances all around as the other

three realize what the imaginary suspicion is behind Hoban's

defensive reaction.

CLOSE SHOT - KID AND LANCEY

with the pile of decks and the empty dispatch case on the

table in front of them. They start checking the decks one by

one, each putting the ones he has covered in a pile for the

other's consideration. They examine the seals and the

cellophane visually, and they also sniff both ends for the

odor of a hot iron. By the time they are through with this

process; The Kid has found three decks he isn't satisfied

with, and Lancy two. The Kid passes his three rejects to

Lancey, who tosses them back into the dispatch case without

looking at them. Then Lancey tries to submit his two to The

Kid, but The Kid waves them away, and Lancey throws them,

too, into the case.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to include the other four players, who

have come up to the table, still not taking chairs until

Lancey and The Kid have chosen theirs. Though Lancey's

question is purely ritualistic, they look to The Kid for his

reply.

Consulting the others is a formality, but all four of them --

Yeller, Shooter, Pig and Sokal -- nod or grunt or otherwise

indicate assent.

MED. SHOT - FEATURING BILL

across the room, he is indicating to The Shooter that he'd

like a word with him before play begins.

MED. SHOT - FEATURING SHOOTER

He detaches himself from the group and sidles inconspicuously

over to Bill.

THE POKER TABLE

The Kid gestures to Lancey to choose his seat. Lancey

acknowledges the courtesy, glances at the window and picks

himself a chair facing away from it.

The Kid, following protocol, moves to a seat directly across

from Lancey's. The Shooter takes his place at the table

halfway between The Kid and Lancey, and pulls the twenty-

five eligible packs of cards to him.

CAMERA PANS to reveal Lady Fingers as she steps from among

the spectators to a place behind Lancey.

THE PLAYERS - FEATURING THE KID

The Kid has taken his roll from his pocket and is counting

it out rapidly. The other players watch, interested to see

how much he is putting out. After counting out one stack of

thirty hundreds, he distributes the rest in stacks of

twenties, tens and fives, folding each bill over once as

protection against picking up more than one at a time.

The Kid has completed his count.

REVERSE ANGLE - FEATURING LANCEY

He takes the money from his satchel.

CAMERA PANS to Yeller.

CAMERA PANS to Pig as he brings out a roll and drops it

casually in front of him.

CAMERA PANS past The Kid to Sokal, who is counting out bills

from an impressive roll.

CAMERA PANS to The Shooter, who is counting out a smaller

stake than anyone.

He puts his money out without counting it, takes a deck of

cards, rips the cellophane off it, takes the jokers and tosses

them offhandedly to one side, not seeming to take aim.

FEATURING THE JOKERS

Heads turn as the cards sail through the air in unison,

landing inside The Shooter's familiar hat, which is resting

crown down on the mantelpiece. The spectators gape at the

display of dexterity.

FEATURING THE SHOOTER

He begins to shuffle and all eyes are upon him, not from

suspicion but from pure admiration. He is in peak form,

shuffling six times, once for each player and then slapping

the cards down before Lancey, who is to the right of him,

with an empty chair in between.

CLOSE - LANCEY

He waives his privilege of cutting with a barely perceptible

nod.

THE POKER TABLE

The Shooter acknowledges the compliment with the same sort

of gesture. Then he begins to deal in his magnificently

precise way, pitching each card so that it comes to a stop

six inches in front of the player's money and in clear view

of everyone at the table.

CLOSE SHOT - SHOOTER'S HANDS

With Sokal in b.g. It is notable that as The Shooter completes

dealing hole cards and switches to the first up card, there

is no visible difference in the motion of his hands. He calls

the cards as he deals them.

CLOSE SHOT - FROM BEHIND KID

He looks at his hole card: an ace.

THE POKER TABLE

The Shooter deals again.

Each other player folds in turn. The Shooter pulls in the

cards, and The Kid pulls in the seventy dollars. The Shooter

shuffles and deals again.

TWO SHOT - HOBAN AND BILL

They are perched on the back of a love seat at the far end

of the room, with their feet on the arms. This gives them a

view of the table through a pair of opera glasses they share,

but they are far enough from it to be able to discuss the

hands freely.

THE POKER TABLE

The second round has been dealt. Sokal has a queen-eight,

The Kid a pair of tens, Pig a king- seven, Lancey an ace-

five. Yeller, like The Shooter, has folded on the first card.

The Kid makes the same bet of twenty dollars, and the other

three remaining players drop.

Unhesitatingly, The Shooter pulls in the cards, separates

them into four or five piles, and tears each pile in two. He

glances around, and Hoban comes up behind him. The Shooter

hands him the torn-up cards and unseals another pack, going

through the same routine of throwing the jokers into his

hat.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. POKER SUITE - AT THE POKER TABLE

It is around midnight, and there is a more settled look to

the game; some of the players have removed their coats, and

there is a good deal of smoke in the air. The Kid has a cup

of coffee by him, presumably with brandy in it; Lancey has

his frappe; Pig is drinking whiskey; the Shooter and Yeller

have bottles of bear. It is the end of a hand. With about

six hundred dollars in the pot, Pig, who has been called,

turns over his hole card triumphantly.

CLOSE SHOT - LANCEY

He barely notices Pig's remark.

CLOSE SHOT - KID

He barely notices Lancey's reaction to Pig's remark.

CAMERA MOVES among the spectators, who also have a more

settled look about them. There is a bar, attended by a

uniformed HOTEL BELLMAN, and most of the people are drinking.

We see in passing a couple go through the door to the bedroom

and close it behind them. CAMERA HOLDS on the love seat as

Bill rejoin Hoban on their perch.

CLOSE SHOT - CARDS BEING DEALT

Sokal gets a nine of clubs, The Kid a six, Pig a queen, Yeller

a king, Lancey a jack, and The Shooter a four.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to show the players. There is less oral

accompaniment to the betting now.

Lancey calls, Shooter drops, Sokal calls, The Kid drops.

TWO SHOT - HOBAN AND BILL

THE POKER TABLE

Lancey puts in his money and so does Sokal.

THE POKER TABLE

Shooter deals another round: an eight of clubs to Sokal, a

second seven to Pig, a ten to Lancey.

TWO SHOT - HOBAN AND BILL

THE POKER TABLE

There is a good deal of suspense hanging on each card as The

Shooter deals. Sokal gets a five of diamonds, and his

disappointment is too great to conceal.

CLOSE SHOT - THE KID

He watches Lancey, puzzled; this isn't what he had expected.

The Kid relaxes; this is more the way he figured it.

THE POKER TABLE

Lancey is completely calm. Pig is shattered, his whole world

suddenly blown apart.

All eyes are on Pig, which doesn't make it any easier for

him. He just sits there, his hands shaking.

There is another long moment before Pig flips over his up

cards.

He looks at Lancey with malevolence. Lancey turns over his

up cards and tosses them in front of The Shooter. Pig suddenly

lunges toward the cards, wanting a look at Lancey's hole

card, but Lancey is too quick for him and pushes the cards

into the pack The Shooter is assembling.

Pig is suffering, weighing the advantages and disadvantages

of making the dread admission. Finally he nods. The Shooter

takes a ten dollar bill from his own stake, and the other

four remaining players each add a ten. The Shooter pushes

the money toward Pig.

The other players look at The Shooter to see if he is going

to accept this statement at face value. He nods, that he

does, and each man contributes another ten. The Shooter passes

the second fifty to Pig.

CAMERA FOLLOWS him to the door. The spectators make room for

him, no one saying anything. At the door, Pig turns back for

his valedictory gesture.

He goes out.

CLOSE SHOT - LANCEY

He has been rearranging his money, but Pig's words make his

head jerk up and toward the door.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal the other players, who react in

dismay to the breach of form.

With that, the tension is gone. But just to make sure, The

Shooter pushes his chair back.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. POKER SUITE - BILL, MELBA AND THE SHOOTER

Melba fills a beer glass from a bottle and serves it to The

Shooter.

The Shooter's gaze wanders o.s. CAMERA MOVES to FEATURE the

objects of his attention, who are Lady Fingers, Lancey and

The Kid. The two men would like to talk to each other, but

Lady Finger's is monopolizing Lancey, and he doesn't want to

offend her.

The Shooter comes to Lancey's rescue.

He whisks her away. Lancey and The Kid, finally facing each

other alone, don't quite know how to begin.

Lancey is a bit taken aback by The Kid's confident assertion,

but he manages a smile.

They look at each other and then exit.

ANGLE INCLUDING THE POKER TABLE

Lady Fingers is sitting in Shooter's place, rippling and

shuffling the cards. Yeller, Sokal, and The Shooter are all

either sitting at the table or standing near it. Lancey,

followed by The Kid, returns to the table.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. POKER SUITE - TOWARD WINDOWS

Morning sunlight is streaming in.

THE POKER TABLE

The Kid, facing the sun, wears his eyeshade. The Shooter has

resumed the deal and now hands out last cards to Sokal, The

Kid and himself.

(TIME LAPSE)

THE POKER TABLE

It is later in the morning. Three players are left in the

hand on the last card: Yeller with nothing higher than a

jack, Lancey with a king-queen showing and Sokal with an ace-

king.

Yeller pulls in the money in front of him. There is now about

$19,500 left on the table, $11,500 in front of Lancey, $8,000

in front of The Kid.

(TIME LAPSE)

THE POKER TABLE

There is around $1,500 in the pot. Shooter deals an unhelpful

card to Lancey's pair of aces, and a nine to The Kid's king-

queen-ten.

The Kid turns up a jack and pulls in the money.

(TIME LAPSE)

THE POKER TABLE

The last bet has been made and there is about $3000 in the

pot. Lancey exposes his hole card.

He takes in the money.

(TIME LAPSE)

THE POKER TABLE

There is $2500 in the pot. Lancey shows a pair of kings, The

Kid an ace and three odd cards. The Shooter deals a nine to

Lancey.

THE KID

He is watching The Shooter intently.

FEATURING THE SHOOTER'S HANDS - KID'S P.O.V.

The dealing motion looks perfectly legitimate as The Shooter

gives The Kid an ace. Lancey's hand reaches into the SHOT to

turn over his up cards.

THE KID

He takes the money in slowly, his eyes on The Shooter. Now

the distribution of money has been reversed. The Kid has

something under $12,000, Lancey something under $8,000.

THE SHOOTER

He avoids meeting The Kid's gaze.

(TIME LAPSE)

THE POKER TABLE - FROM BEHIND THE KID

On the fourth card Lancey shows a pair of sevens, The Kid a

pair of eights and a ten.

The Kid lifts his hole card and we see it is a ten.

He turns to watch The Shooter.

FEATURING THE SHOOTER'S HANDS - KID'S P.O.V.

Again there is no indication of improper dealing as The

Shooter gives Lancey an odd card and The Kid a ten, completing

his full house.

THE POKER TABLE

He exits. After a moment The Shooter follows. Lancey watches

them go then rises, apparently still fresh and strong. Lady

Fingers joins him.

Lancey looks at her a moment, then smiles.

He moves through the crowd, then exits.

INT. BEDROOM - BILL'S SUITE - THE KID & SHOOTER

They are alone in the room. Shooter is uncomfortable and

would like to be elsewhere but The Kid is standing in front

of the closed door.

The Kid grabs him and slams him against the wall.

Shooter looks at him, then moves towards the door.

The Shooter goes out. The Kid crosses to the phone.

INT. LANCEY'S ROOM

In the privacy of his room he shows how close he is to

exhaustion. Wearily, he sits on the bed and begins to remove

his shoes. Then, catching his reflection in the mirror,

straightens.

INT. BEDROOM, BILL'S SUITE - CLOSE SHOT - MELBA

She is in the final stages of undressing. CAMERA MOVES with

her as she steps to The Kid's bedside and gets into bed with

him. Having accomplished this without waking him, she speaks

into his ear in imitation of a hotel phone operator.

He awakens in considerable confusion. Melba is amused by his

difficulty in adjusting to his circumstances.

INT. LANCEY'S ROOM

He is shaving. Apparently much stronger but his hand is

shaking. He looks at it. It steadies. After a moment he smiles

a little.

INT. BATHROOM, BILL'S SUITE

CAMERA is on the shower door as the SOUND of running water

ceases. The Kid can be seen indistinctly through the door.

Melba, who is dressed again and applying her lipstick, comes

into the SHOT, takes a towel from a rack and hands it to him

after he opens the shower door. He gives himself a quick

once-over with it, the secures it around his waist, steps

out of the shower stall, and begins the process of shaving.

Melba meanwhile finishes restoring her makeup.

The Kid stops shaving and looks at her.

There is a KNOCK on the door.

CAMERA PANS to take in the view of the bedroom as she crosses

it to the door, talking as she goes.

She has paused at the door to finish her sentence. Now she

unlocks and opens it -- to Christian. Melba is so taken aback

she can't do anything but stand there holding the door open.

The Kid, in the bathroom in f.g., is similarly frozen in his

tracks. After a moment Christian advances into the room.

REVERSE ANGLE - CHRISTIAN IN F.G.

The scene as it looks to Christian is circumstantially

incriminating. CAMERA MOVES with her gaze from The Kid to

the one mussed bed, to Melba. The faces and the silence of

the two people are even more incriminating than the

circumstances.

She walks past CAMERA and a moment later comes the SOUND of

the door closing behind her. The Kid, who has moved into the

bedroom, crosses to his clothes on a chair, and picks up his

undershorts and trousers. He returns to the bathroom, using

the door for partial concealment as he removes his towel and

puts on his shorts and trousers.

The Kid fastens his trousers and returns to the basin to

give his face a last few strokes with the razor and wash off

the soap.

He comes back into the bedroom to finish dressing. As his

movement brings him fairly close to Christian, he realizes

he hasn't kissed her, and repairs the omission before putting

his shirt on.

To The Kid preoccupied by the game and the fix, feeling both

affection and guilt. The idea that she can be any use to him

against Lancey is one he can't grasp.

He moves toward the door.

She looks at him. After a moment he exits. She follows.

THE POKER TABLE

It is evening. Lady Fingers deals a first up card to the two

players. The Kid gets an eight, Lancey a jack.

Lady Fingers scoops up the cards, shuffles them into the

rest of the deck, submits it to Lancey for his cut, and deals

them another two cards apiece -- all in the space of seconds.

The Kid gets a queen, Lancey a nine.

INT. POKER SUITE

CAMERA starts on Yeller, who is stretched out on the loveseat

with his eyes closed and PANS UP to INCLUDE Hoban, who sits

at the observation post with the binoculars. Yeller speaks

without opening his eyes.

CAMERA MOVES on PAST a window, showing it is night outside;

past a group of other spectators; past Bill, Shooter and

Melba who watch the game grimly; and finally to the table,

where The Shooter is dealing again. The Kid is down to his

undershirt, and even Lancey has made a few concessions to

comfort. The players have just been dealt their third cards.

Christian moves up to stand behind The Kid.

He looks up at Christian.

She hesitates. Then moves away. Lancey watches this.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. POKER SUITE - CHRISTIAN

It is later at night. The magazine lies open on Christian's

lap; she is staring absently into space.

The announcement rouses Christian from her reverie.

THE POKER TABLE

Lady Fingers is in the dealer's chair. The two players look

pretty weary.

Lady Fingers puts down the deck. Picks up a new one.

Lady Fingers looks at the two men for a long moment. Puts

the cards down.

She turns and stalks off. Lancey and The Kid look at each

other for a moment, then both grin.

As he heads for the door, Lancey reacts to this. Then stands

and looks around the room. Groups of people stand in the

shadows watching silently, not hostile but certainly not

friendly. He is The Man but he is getting beat and nobody is

sorry. After a moment he turns and leaves from a side door.

CAMERA PANS to HOLD on Christian as she stops The Kid by the

door.

INT. POKER SUITE

Christian scans both their faces as they talk... concerned.

He heads for the door. Christian looks after him.

INT. BILL'S SUITE

Bill and The Kid are sitting at a room-service table. Bill

nibbles at some cheese and crackers while The Kid tackles a

large steak. Felix, the chauffeur, stands in attendance on

them.

He motions to Felix, indicating a wine bottle on the table.

Felix steps over and refills The Kid's glass.

The Kid just looks at him -- then returns to his meal.

He makes a peremptory gesture to Felix, who springs forward

to offer the salad bowl to The Kid.

Felix jumps into action again. He moves to The Kid's side,

reaches into a breast pocket and takes out a switch blade,

which he clocks open an inch or two from The Kid's neck. It

is an extremely ugly-looking and menacing weapon.

Felix hands the knife to The Kid, who tries it on his steak.

He jams the knife in the table and snaps off the blade.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR

As The Kid exits Christian is waiting for him. He moves down

the corridor, preoccupied. She follows.

He stops, looks at her.

He looks at her a moment longer then moves up the corridor.

She watches him, then turns. Standing in the open door some

distance away are Schlaegel and Felix.

INT. POKER SUITE - THE SHOOTER'S HANDS

Shuffling the cards. CAMERA PULLS BACK enough to see his

face as he looks across at The Kid. CAMERA PANS to a CLOSE

SHOT of The Kid, and then past a couple of spectators,

including Christian and Melba, to Bill, whose eyes are on

The Kid. Finally CAMERA PANS back to The Kid.

THE POKER TABLE - INCLUDING BILL

Both The Shooter and Bill are aware of a portentous note in

The Kid's tone.

Lancey looks from The Kid to The Shooter, sensing that there

may be something more behind this, but not knowing just what.

CLOSE SHOT - LADY FINGERS

Rising from her chair.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. POKER SUITE - CLOSE SHOT - THE KID AND POKER HAND

The four cards showing are the ace, ten and two little clubs.

As CAMERA PULLS BACK we also have time to note The Kid's

stake. He is still ahead. Lancey counts out five hundred

dollars from his stake, leaving about thirteen thousand, and

puts it into a pot that already contains around a thousand.

The Kid turns up the jack of clubs.

The Kid pulls in the money.

(TIME LAPSE)

INT. POKER SUITE - THE KID - LANCEY - AND POKER HANDS

Both men are showing the strain. Perhaps Lancey the most as

he appears to be consistently losing. Showing are two nines

and two odd cards.

The kid turns up another nine and reaches for the money.

(TIME LAPSE)

THE POKER TABLE - FROM BEHIND THE KID

He shows a pair of eights and two odd cards against Lancey's

pair of queens. He takes another look at his hole card, and

we see that it is of no help to him.

HOBAN AND YELLER

They are both sitting on the back of the loveseat now. The

binoculars pass from one to the other. Both men are tense

over the growing excitement of the game.

CAMERA MOVES to the other four remaining spectators:

Christian, Melba, The Shooter and Bill. They are close enough

to see the cards but too close to discuss them.

THE POKER TABLE

The kid has almost half the money in front of him now, and

is playing with increasing assurance and pressure.

HOBAN AND YELLER

CAMERA MOVES to the other four spectators as they react to

The Kid's successful streak.

And it looks that way. Lancey appears old and unsure. The

Kid sharp and cold. A young barracuda moving in for the kill.

CAMERA MOVES in close to Christian as she tries to catch The

Kid's eye. Thinking she has it, she smiles her encouragement.

FEATURING THE KID

He looks right at her and doesn't seem to see her. Lady

Fingers has dealt the first up cards of a new hand, and Lancey

is high.

CLOSE - CHRISTIAN

Amid the growing excitement and tension she is a complete

outsider.

(TIME LAPSE)

THE POKER TABLE

The Kid shows two jacks and two odd cards; Lancey a pair of

aces and two odd cards. Lancey puts about eight hundred

dollars into the pot.

The Kid exposes his hidden jack.

SHOOTER, BILL AND MELBA

Greed and an almost vicious satisfaction marks their faces

as they watch Lancey falter. The Shooter whispers to Bill

just loud enough for the girl to hear.

Christian looks at them, then at The Kid. Hesitates a moment

then suddenly gets to her feet and starts for the door. Only

Melba notices her, and even she doesn't have time to question

her. CAMERA FOLLOWS Christian to the suite entrance, where

she picks up her bag then turns to look back at the table.

FEATURING THE KID

The place where Christian was sitting is right in his line

of vision but he hasn't observed her departure.

CLOSE SHOT - CHRISTIAN

She goes on out the door.

INT. POKER SUITE - ANGLE INCLUDING WINDOW

The second dawn of the contest is near at hand. The room,

continuously lived in for so long by so many people, is a

shambles of dirty glasses and plates, empty bottles, full

wastebaskets and ash trays, and frayed people. At the poker

table, Lady Fingers is dealing a new hand.

CAMERA MOVES in close enough for us to see the cards. Lancey

has the jack of hearts, The Kid the ten of clubs.

The Kid takes his first look at his hole card.

CLOSE SHOT - SHOWING FACE OF HOLE CARD

It is the queen of hearts.

Lancey looks at him a long moment. His face pale and shaken.

The Kid is beating him. Pushing -- buying -- always pressing

and Lancey knows he is losing one hand at a time, not badly

but consistently and inevitably. His age and fatigue are a

strong handicap for the long pull. Then his face settles as

if he had come to a decision. He smiles lightly summoning

some last reserve of strength, almost as if he knows this

will be the last hand, win or lose.

HOBAN AND YELLER

THE POKER TABLE

Lady Fingers deals the ten of diamonds to The Kid, giving

him a pair, and the ten of hearts to Lancey.

The raise is a surprise. The Kid's eyes go up to study

Lancey's face, even though he knows what a futile effort

that is.

HOBAN AND YELLER

THE POKER TABLE

SERIES OF ANGLES

The Kid, Lancey, Shooter, Melba, Schlaegel, Yeller, Hoban

and others as they realize this could be the big hand.

Lancey looks at him, then at the cards. The moment stretches.

Lancey looks at her. His face briefly showing his anger. The

Kid notices this and reacts.

The Kid checks the amount of money in front of him.

THE SHOOTER AND BILL

They exchange a quick look of satisfaction, and then their

eyes go back to the cards.

HOBAN AND YELLER

They each take a quick turn with the binoculars.

FROM BEHIND THE KID

He looks at his hole card. It is still the queen of hearts.

He has a full house, which has to be the winning hand unless

Lancey had the audacity to bet out with a jack-seven of

hearts, and to raise The Kid with a jack-ten-seven.

He counts out all his money except a few smaller bills.

THE WATCHERS

Reacting.

FEATURING LANCEY

He takes his time before he responds.

Slowly and deliberately, revealing nothing in his face, he

reaches into his breast pocket and takes out a slim wallet

and begins to let the bills flutter out on the table. The

Kid looks at him frozen.

THE SHOOTER AND BILL

Bill hisses softly into The Shooter's ear.

But The Shooter, like the Kid, is white-faced and frozen by

the raise.

THE REMAINING SPECTATORS

They crowd in close to the table: Hoban, Yeller, Bill, The

Shooter, and Melba.

CLOSE SHOT - THE KID

There is nothing to be gained from a poker face now, and he

reacts with a stunned expression in which all the accumulated

strain and fatigue is beginning to show. CAMERA MOVES among

the spectators: Hoban and Yeller, who are sorry for The Kid

and admiring of Lancey; Bill, who is all the more angry at

his defeat because his hopes were up; The Shooter, who is a

very unhappy man; and Melba, whose anger at the Kid is

balanced by her fear of Schlaegel and what will happen to

The Shooter and possibly to her.

THE POKER TABLE

Lancey pulls in the money while The Kid stares at him dumbly.

Lady Fingers riffles the cards.

As he settles up, the CAMERA FOLLOWS The Kid to his brandy

bottle. As he pours himself a slug, Melba and Shooter join

him.

CLOSER ANGLE

Shooter looks at him a moment and nods, and taking Melba by

the arm, moves toward the door followed by Felix.

Melba starts to protest, but Felix jerks her out the door.

Shooter hesitates, then follows.

DIFFERENT ANGLE

Schlaegel turns to The Kid.

The Kid looks at him, looks at Lancey and Lady Fingers,

wondering about what Schlaegel has said, angry about it.

Schlaegel nods, moves to the door.

NEW ANGLE

Lancey and Lady Fingers join The Kid.

The Kid looks at him and doesn't answer.

He smiles his very pleasant smile and goes out the door.

SCENE

Lancey stops surrounded by a crowd of admirers offering their

congratulations. The Kid watches for a moment then takes a

long drink out of the bottle and eases through the crowd and

out the door.

INT. CORRIDOR

as The Kid moves down the hall and enters the elevator.

INT. LOBBY

as he moves through the almost deserted lobby into the street.

EXT. ST. LOUIS STREET - DAWN EFFECT

SERIES OF ANGLES of the Kid walking alone through the city.

During the above there is an impression someone is following

him.

EXT. DESERTED STREET NEAR THE KID'S APARTMENT

He turns a corner and there is a man blocking his path.

Suddenly three men move in behind him. He turns, trapped.

CLOSER ANGLE

The men are four of the original seven players he hustled in

the opening scene.

NOTE: During the progression of the game first one, then

two, then all four men will be included among the observers.

Always in the background, never positively identified. Their

presence should be felt if not recognized.

He moves toward The Kid.

The men hesitate.

NEW ANGLE

as Christian gets out of a taxi.

He crosses to Christian.

CLOSER ANGLE

Christian doesn't answer. She looks at The Kid for a long

moment, then turns and goes. He watches her. She enters the

cab and it leaves. The Kid just stands there.

DIFFERENT ANGLE

Danny and the others move up around him. The Kid ignores

them. After a moment Danny swings from behind and knocks him

to the pavement. He lies there stunned for a moment. They

look down at him. Then he comes up. He flattens two in the

process of being badly beaten. They leave him.

DIFFERENT ANGLES

as the city awakens. Finally, he stirs, stands and walks

away.

