GERALD BRACH & ROLAND JOFFE

FADE IN:

TITLE SEQUENCE.

EXT. BIHAR - DAY (DAWN, SUMMER, MID-1980)

Heat that has mass. That rises off the parched earth in

shimmering waves. After a moment, we see what appear to

be figures coming out of the haze, one by one. A family

with their few belongings: HASARI PAL, 33, his wife,

ALOKA, 28, and their children, daughter, AMRITA, 13,

sons MANOOJ and SHAMBU, 11 and 9; HASARI'S MOTHER and

FATHER. They embark toward the night, the rising sun

behind them.

EXT. ROADSIDE - BUS STOP - DAY (DAWN)

Hasari's Father passes a gourd of precious water. Hasari

serves the children first. Shambu gulps entirely too

much, the others forcing him to stop by a unified force

of will. Embarrassed, he passes the cup to his brother,

who sips, as does his sister. Aloka barely wets her

lips, insisting on leaving the last drops for Hasari.

And now, a rooster tail of dust rises up behind the

approaching bus and the old parents bid farewell to their

son's family. There is an intense sadness at leaving

the land and Hasari's Mother clings to him...

His Mother nods, as Hasari erupts in a small cough which,

by habit, he suppresses. His Mother crushes Aloka to

her.

Now the children. She wants to keep them here even as

the old man touches her, reminding her she must let them

go.

Shambu, his eyes big as saucers, whispers to his

grandma...

CONTINUED:

That does it: Hasari's   Mother dissolves in tears, but

the old man nevertheless  unlooses her insistently from

the children. Aloka and   the children get on the bus as

the old man embraces his  son.

EXT. ROADSIDE/INT. BUS - DAY

There's not an empty inch inside the little vehicle or

on top.  The passengers are silent. A woman breast feeds

a baby.  Several passengers fan themselves. Many sleep.

The Pals squeeze wearily into the rear seat.

Hasari and Aloka look  at each other: If only it were the

pursuit of wealth and  not survival. The woman under-

stands. And now the   BUS GRINDS forward and the Pals look

back. Hasari coughs,   suppresses it... as silence falls.

The elder Pals stand huddled   together in the dust and we

see, nestled behind a boulder   at the roadside, a tiny,

blue flower -- beautiful and   fragile, but like all things

alive, determined to live...   and we hear the sound of a

DOZEN VOICES CHANTING a quiet   mantra in unison as we --

INT. ASHRAM - ANOTHER FLOWER - DAY

This flower floats gently in a bowl of water. The TITLES

END as we PULL BACK SLOWLY to reveal a dozen Anglos,

several Indians, and one Kenyan seated cross-legged

before an aging Yogi, who's quietly urging the suppli-

cants to find "their light, allow your white light to

fill your spirit's eye." Above, ceiling fans move the

air.

CONTINUED:

As we PAN the group, we see that everyone has his/her

eyes closed in earnest meditation... until we COME TO an

American, MAX LOEB, 29, who pops open first his right eye

-- looks to his right and left -- closes his right eye

and opens his left eye -- looks left and right... and

then, instead of continuing the mantra and the search for

his white light, expels a stream of air through his

pursed lips, making a vibrating, flatulent sound, one

indicative of sizeable frustration and dismissal.

Around him, other single eyes pop open, searching for the

source of this unmeditative sound. Max nods and smiles

a wry smile as if to say: This just ain't doin' it for

me, folks.

INT. SPARTAN ROOM - TRUMPET - DAY

Max closes the trumpet case and starts chucking his

clothes and books in a knapsack and a small valise. We

notice the Hebrew letter chai on a gold chain around his

neck. His girl friend, BETSY KAHN, overdressed somewhat

in an Indian style, endeavors to exercise the inner peace

she's been pursuing...

That's okay with Max, who's willing to eschew communica-

tion of all kinds and just finish heaving his stuff in

the valise.

CONTINUED:

She slaps him.

She swings at him again.   He catches her hand hard in his

fist.

She yanks free, begins to chant her mantra as he grabs

his knapsack and valise and goes out the door.  Now,

she's silent and, in the simplest sense, deeply hurt.

She can't help herself; she cares. We STAY WITH  her

a moment as we --

EXT. COUNTRY AIRPORT (ASSAM) - WINDING ROAD - DAY

Cool, lush hills. A little pack of single-engine two-

and four-seaters. Max, in shorts and University of

Miami T-shirt, hot, sweaty, appears around a bend in the

approach road.

INT. AIRPORT - WAITING ROOM

A small service desk. A CLERK, who doubles as Ground

Control on the microphone, passing on the prevailing wind

and the active runway. We hear the STATIC-BACKED VOICE

of a PILOT, giving his call numbers, then announcing

he's clear for immediate takeoff on the active runway.

The Clerk CLICKS off and finds Max.

CONTINUED:

The Clerk gives Max a warm smile.

The Clerk nods; he's at Max's ervice.

A beat --- the Clerk with his smile, Max with his, one

simply warm, the other giving off simmering heat.

EXT. AIRPORT - LOW ANGLE - DAY

Max sits on the ground, up against the building, playing

a jazz line quietly and rather well on his trumpet. A

pair of well-shod feet ENTER the FRAME. Max looks up.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The rubicund face of VEEJAY CHATTERGEE, 50, and more

British than Churchill. Behind him, his cherubic wife,

RAVI... and making her way toward the enclave of small

planes, their daughter, MANUBAI, 26.

Max's eyes flick from Veejay to the back view of Manubai

as she continues on and back to Veejay.

INT. 180 FOUR-SEATER - DAY

Max is crammed into the back seat with the plump Ravi.

ANOTHER ANGLE

We see now that, contrary to our assumption that Veejay

would be in the left seat, it's Manubai who's flying the

plane. The NOISE of the ENGINE forces them to speak

somewhat loudly.

Veejay has an old flask out.

As he takes a hit   on   the flask, Max's eye focuses on the

little mirror on   the   dash. In it he can see Manubai's

eyes. If we  were   to   judge by what he sees in them, she

doesn't find him   the   least bit amusing. He smiles his

smile at her.

EXT. HOWRAH STATION (CALCUTTA) - DAY (EARLY MORNING)

A huge bridge dominates the skyline. The train     trundles

to a stop, its WHISTLE clearing the way. People     hang on

its sides, sit on the roof... and now flood the    platform,

flowing into the station, clearing a view for us    of the

Pals, clinging to their baggage in the middle of    this

human anthill.

CLOSE ON THEM (MOVING)

Hands reach out with sweets to sell, with tea, asking for

money.

CONTINUED:

But, despite Hasari's charade of confidence, they (and

we) are overwhelmed by the size of the station and the

desperate energy of the humanity around them. As they

press on, a small beggar woman huddled on the platform

turns her eyes eerily on Manooj... as a deformed hand

stretches INTO the FRAME. Aloka senses someone: A

beggar, face half-hidden and eaten away by leprosy. This

terrifying image presses the boys tightly to their

mother and moves Hasari to encircle Armita with one hand

and attempt to wrap the other three inside the embrace of

his other hand. It does not seem possible that he can

protect all of them against the predatory eyes watching

them. He moves them quickly to a wall...

WITH HASARI

He moves to a line of VENDORS, shows a piece of paper to

one, as he digs out his precious screw of money to make a

purchase of sweets from the Vendor.

The Vendor gives the address a look, shows it to the

Vendor next to him. Both look at Hasari.

CONTINUED:

Dear God, what now? Stunned, Hasari hands Vendor #1 a

rupee and, with the sweets, turns back to his family, his

face going through a magical transformation as he

prepares to suggest to the family that all is well.

EXT. CHOWRINGHEE LANE - DAY (MIDDAY SUN)

A few clean and cared-for Ambassador cars sweep into the

gateway of the Grand Hotel, past a gateman.

FEET - MAIDAN

Feet tramping the pulsating tarmac, sending up dust.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Pals, scared, dispirited, weary, consumed by the

crowd. They've been walking a long  time. Shambu cries;

Aloka tries to ease his fear. They  stop numbly at the

edge of the park, put their bundles down against a long

wall.

Across the way, a thin policeman shares a cigarette with

a group of traders. There is a deeply fearful look in

Hasari's eyes, a look he is having difficulty controlling

now. He needs to revive the family's confidence. He

takes out his precious bundle of rupees and gives one to

Manooj. Manooj, though, is fixed on the cinema across

the street. Hasari indicates a stall just across the

main road.

Delighted with his task, Manooj sets off, his eyes on the

marquee of the theater with its huge cardboard cutout of

Kumar Kapur, starring in Hot Gun. Hasari calls out to

him to watch where he's going; the mere crossing of the

street is a potential parental nightmare. A hand ruffles

Manooj's head and a TALL MAN with dark eyes and a sweet

smile comes at the boy's anxious parents.

CONTINUED:

Hasari is torn between speaking to the man and watching

his son's incredible journey across the street.

And now a smile as full as the sky above.

EXT. SMALL BUILDING IN BACK STREET - DAY

A brick slides out of the wall.

We're BEHIND the brick and see Gangooly's soft face as he

reaches in and pulls out a key.

The street is small and empty.  Though the houses are

nothing much, to the Pals, they look like palaces.

Manooj and Shambu run about in delight. Gangooly motions

for quiet. With a flourish, he  opens the door.

INT. SMALL ROOM - DAY

Gangooly enters, glances around, waves the Pals in.

They're amazed. There's a cage occupied by two parrots.

In one corner, a small altar dedicated to the goddess

Lakshmi is decorated with some flowers and, behind a

torn, plastic curtain in a corner, part kitchen, part

wash place, containing a tap with running water.

On the faces of the family is one thought: Is it

possible? Amrita goes right to the parrots.

CONTINUED:

He bows briefly before the altar as he moves to the

washing area.

He turns on the tap and a stream of brown WATER GURGLES

out. The Pals are hypnotized, the fists around their

hearts begin to ease.

Manooj and Shambu put their hands under the tap.

They drink. Gangooly claps in delight... and beckons

Hasari aside.

FAVORING GANGOOLY AND HASARI

Hasari pulls out his little screw of money.

And the money is in his hand.   He joins his hands

together.

CONTINUED:

He turns on his heel and he's gone. For a moment, the

Pals are still, swept from the brink of catastrophe to

salvation... and now, as one, they release their sheer

and utter joy.

INT. CHATTERGEE STAIRCASE - DAY

Ravi and Veejay leading Max up the grand staircase,

Manubai in the foyer, looking after them.

INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY

Ravi leads the way into a lovely guest bedroom.

Veejay opens a little cupboard, stocked with liquor.

Obediently, Ravi goes.   Veejay follows.   Max goes to the

window.

HIS POV

The beautiful Manubai in the garden.

MAX

He lies down on the bed.   He's found Nirvana.

INT. MAIN ROOM - DAY

It's Hasari who watches now. There's LAUGHTER from Aloka

and Amrita. Joyful SHOUTS from the boys. Hasari is

alone in the main room, on his knees, in front of the

pile of their baggage and bundles. He turns his atten-

tion from the laughter to a just-opened, old suitcase.

He takes out a small tea box. Opens it delicately.

CONTINUED:

It's full of something brown. He  pushes his fingers in

and feels this bit of earth with a tenderness that's

almost religious, puts a pinch to his nose and breathes

it in. The LAUGHTER and SHOUTING  from the bathing area

is GROWING.

INT. BATHING AREA

Shambu is paddling near the tap. Aloka is bending over

the drain and Amrita is rinsing her heavy, dark hair

with a pot. Manooj is nearby, rubbing himself with an

old towel. Hasari enters unnoticed and looks at the

group with tenderness... and with gratitude for their

good fortune.

A MAN, red with anger, yanks the curtain aside, stares.

The family freezes. Aloka's hair drips unnoticed on her

sari.

The furious Binal, followed by the Pals, goes into the

main part of the room. A small crowd has been attracted

by the noise.

CONTINUED:

This while Binal has begun to throw things out onto the

street, though this cleansing of his home doesn't stop

him from picking up a stick. The odd sympathizer meets

with...

He turns with the stick on Hasari.

Hasari looks at Manooj, who drops his eyes. They collect

the remainder of their possessions and hurry out the

door.

EXT. SMALL STREET - DAY

Full of neighbors. There's a suppressed violence in the

air. A man pushes Aloka. Sweat streaming down his face,

Hasari confronts the man. A WOMAN pushes the men apart.

EXT. VICTORIA MONUMENT - STREET - NIGHT (DUSK)

Calcutta broiling: Buses, vendors, carts, rickshaws,

children beg at car windows. The Pals stand, uncertain,

and for the first time a rickshaw fills Hasari's eye,

carrying two passengers. But now he shoulders his burden

and leads the family toward the river. We HOLD until

they grow small against the setting sun, gleaming red

against the white domes of the Victoria Monument.

INT. CHATTERGEE'S LIBRARY - TORSO - NIGHT

Moving through the dark, a figure, touching things,

looking at photographs of the Chattergees. We hear

a MUFFLED DIALOGUE mixed with the SINGING a la Dean

Martin of "Everybody Loves Somebody Sometime":

"Goddamn it, boy, what's the matter with you? --

"Everybody loves somebody sometime" -- "Go for it,

son!" -- "Sure, Dad, whatever you say, Dad." --

"Everybody falls in love somehow" -- "You're the dad,

Dad." Now, a humidor. Max opens it, takes out a

cigar, takes two. Takes five. Senses someone. Turns.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Ravi in her bathrobe.

He gives her his best saint's smile.

EXT. KITCHEN - WINDOW - NIGHT

THROUGH the window, we see the bleary-eyed cook laying

out food as Ravi chatters away at Max, he with a beatific

grin on his face as he feeds himself.

EXT. RIVER BANK - HOWRAH BRIDGE - DAY

The bridge etched against the dawn sky. The corpse of

an indigent is collected and put on a cart.

MANOOJ

With his eyes open, watching the dead man being removed.

FAMILY

After their humiliating flight, they found refuge here.

Tiny figures huddled together with their baggage and

bundles, near a tree, not far from the steps that dip

down to the smooth water. Hasari's eyes, too, are on

the dead man, that warning. He kneels beside Manooj,

strokes him. The boy's eyes turns to the man's,

wondering if the man can provide for them.

Fear and doubt fill Manooj's eyes.   He nods.

EXT. DOCKS - DAY

Hasari at the gates, the family huddled together in

the b.g. The man behind the gate shakes his head,

points.

ANOTHER ANGLE

A line of a hundred men stretches from a door. Hasari

is on the edge of panic, but when he turns to the family,

he's wearing his confident smile. As before, he gathers

the family into the protectorate of his arms and guides

them onward. As he pushes off into the sea of humanity,

we PULL BACK AND UP, FILLING the FRAME WITH street upon

street, disappearing Hasari.

FROM STREET - INTO WORKSHOP - HASARI AND OWNER

Two plump men in shirt sleeves look coolly at Hasari.

The elder shakes his head. The younger shows Hasari

the door.

Outside, an increasingly desperate Hasari finds

Aloka before a small shrine, saying a prayer.

EXT. BARA BAZAR - DAY

Aloka huddled with Manooj and Amrita. Hasari talking

to the owner of a small market stall. Shambu is peering

into a shop with male mannequins in the window.

INT. MEN'S SHOP - MOVING MIRROR

In the moving mirror we see counters and shelves of men's

clothing.

The mirror stops at Max slipping into a kurta before an

audience of Ravi, Manubai, and a salesman.

Max sees a boy's face pressed to the glass: he indicates

the shirt, for the boy's approval. The boy smiles a

wonderful smile.

Max looks at her.   She at him.

EXT. MEN'S SHOP - DAY

Man leans down, whispers to the smiling boy...

The little boy nods. Max slips him several rupees...

and he, Manubai, and Ravi fold themselves into her tiny

car as --

ANOTHER ANGLE

Shambu runs to his dejected family.

Shambu looks, but the car's gone.

Shambu is devastated. Out of his own desperation,

Hasari feels he's been a little rough on the boy. He

holds him close.

Aloka, the boys nod. We WATCH them as Hasari heads

off, quickly becoming a small figure disappearing into

the sea.

EXT. JUTE MILL DAY - LATE AFTERNOON SUN

Starting to sink. We PAN DOWN TO Hasari stepping to

a grilled window as the man ahead moves out.

INT. JUTE MILL - DAY

A flaking gray wall, half-obscured with moldering files.

The grilled window lets in a little light and the quiet

supplications of those outside.

An old CLERK at a desk. A voice calls out.       The Clerk

looks up, crosses to the grill.

Hasari's tense face through the bars. A TRUCK RUMBLES

past, drowning out the words... except these: "...trade

union." The Clerk shakes his head sadly. On the verge

of panic, Hasari hangs onto the window...

The Clerk digs in his pocket, presses two rupees on

Hasari.

The next man in line forcibly moves Hasari out of the

way.

The Clerk waves him away, turns his attention to the

next man.

INT. CHATTERGEE RECEPTION ROOM - DAY (LATE AFTERNOON)

Manubai's face.   Then Max's.   Then hers.    Then his.

Looking at each other.   Five days.   Kiss.    Ravi.

CONTINUED:

He stares at her a moment, then gets up, goes around the

table.

She stares at him. He bends to kiss her. She doesn't

pull away... but after a moment he realizes she isn't

responding. He continues the kiss, but he opens his

eyes... to find her staring at him. He pulls back.

They stare at each other another moment, then Max

senses someone in the doorway.

RAVI

Staring at them, disappointment filling her eyes.

MAX

The same sound of frustration and ennui he made in the

ashram.

EXT. CHATTERGEE HOME - DAY

His arm around Max, Veejay guides the young man toward

a waiting taxi.

Max gives him a non-commital shrug.    Veejay winks,

stuffs the money into Max's pocket.

EXT. GREEN ACRES COURTYARD - COW - DAY (LATE AFTERNOON)

Bare feet... and then sneakered feet step over the sleep-

ing bovine, who turns a disinterested eye up.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Max is guided by a grumpy hall PORTER wearing an off-

white shirt and bellbottoms through the walled and well

planted courtyard of an inexpensive hotel. Max gives the

cow a bemused eye...

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

The room is utterly utilitarian. The Porter turns on a

ceiling fan, sending an army of cockroaches scurrying

for calmer terrain. Max clearly doesn't care for

cockroaches.

Max hands the Porter several rupees.

Max puts a finger on the Porter's head, turns him for

the door.

AT DOOR

Max eases the Porter out.   As the door is closing...

Max smiles his smile and disappears the Porter behind the

closed door. The smile disappears and the FAN gets his

attention; it has an annoying rhythm and sound. He

flicks the switch, but the fan continues to snap around.

CONTINUED:

He stares at it... and startles us by suddenly flicking

out a hand and grabbing the blade, stopping the fan.

He lets go. The fan is still. He carries his knapsack

to the tub; it has brown stains along the middle and

the water has a brown tinge as it flows out of the tap.

He sits on the edge of the tub, dumps his knapsack on

the floor, picks up a half-dozen pamphlets from the

ashram.

CLOSE ON PAMPHLETS

Guides to inner peace.

RESUME

He wings the pamphlets at the trashcan.

EXT. RIVERBANK - HOWRAH BRIDGE - DAY (EARLY EVENING)

Hasari comes around the corner of a warehouse, a smile

on his face, clutching some bananas and dried grain.

His relief -- and ours -- is short-lived.

TREE AND BANK

The space where he left the family has been cleared

and taken over by trucks. He's lost his family.

HOWRAH BRIDGE ROAD

A group of Hindus are   celebrating a puja, the women

singing canticles at   the top of their lungs; the men

tossing a little boy   happily back and forth... as the

panic-stricken Hasari   rushes up.

Hasari rushes on.    Suddenly we --

UNDER BRIDGE - DAY

His head turns and his eyes look this way, that way...

until out of the near silence, we hear a distant,

extraordinary word...

CONTINUED:

The word catches Hasari's ear. He looks into the sea

of people along the river bank under the bridge.

As in a dream, Shambu rises up out of the sea of bodies

... and runs to his father.

Now, Aloka, Amrita, Manooj appear, rising up out of the

sea, ending Hasari's nightmare.

A warrior returning from battle, Hasari engulfs the

little boy.

As before, Hasari tries to engulf the rest of his family

in the protectorate of his arms. In the b.g., Arun and

his family.

Hasari looks at the tiny space. The roof is cardboard

and cloth and half an old movie poster featuring the

actor Kumar Kapur. Hasari looks at his tiny bit of

food, debates a moment... then puts his hands together,

addresses these generous people.

Everyone looks at the food; there is no disguising their

hunger.

EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT

Distant transistor MUSIC as we PAN DOWN: The Pal

children sleep despite the QUIET MOANS and nightmare

CRIES around them, the two boys huddled together, Amrita

close to her mother.

Hasari comes out of the dark. Aloka looks at him. He

shakes his head. He slumps beside her. Aloka strokes

Hasari, looking lovingly at him.

He strokes her tenderly in return... but now, overwhelmed

with despair, she begins to weep.

She doesn't want to say it, doesn't want to wake the

children.

Hasari pulls Aloka close, strokes her.

EXT. GREEN ACRES - NIGHT

The sky turns red. The Porter looks up, shakes his head:

Poor young man, stuck with only a trumpet for company.

INT. MAX'S ROOM

Max sits on the floor in a corner and plays as we hear

the sound of a fierce WHISTLE and a SCREAMING ENGINE.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - CLOSE ON BULLDOZER - DAWN

A gigantic earthmover lurches into position.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Swarming police.

PALS

Awaken -- startled, disoriented. Aloka gentles the

children as Hasari moves instinctively toward the threat.

SCENE

A black ambassadorial car pulls up, out of which steps

a BABU. A microphone and speaker has been set up.

Another car unloads several politicos with party banners.

A minion hands the Babu the mike; he wants to get on with

it before this turns into a political rally. Hasari is

close to him, as is Arun.

For a moment there is a babble of fear and frustration.

Then from Hasari's side, Arun confronts the Babu.

The Babue appears disconcerted.   He's not accustomed to

the poor asking questions.

CONTINUED:

Arun begins to tear his shelter apart, and to heave the

pieces at the Babu, who retreats. Others soon take up

the call to vent their frustration, hurling things at

the police and at the driver of the tractor. Quickly

we've got a full-scale riot. The police wade into the

crowd, pounding people with their sticks, Arun one of

the first to get hit. He staggers into Hasari's arms.

FAVORING PALS/ARUN AND HIS FAMILY

Unbelievable! Panic-stricken, Hasari and Aloka gather

the children and their few belongings... as beside them

a woman goes down from a stick to the head; Aloka stops

instinctively to help the woman, but Hasari grabs her,

trying to shelter her and the children as well as Arun's

wife and children, clutching Arun to him as in the chaos

they manage to escape.

EXT. CHURCH - CLOSE ON BILLBOARD - DAY

On the billboard: A maharajah sleeping snugly on a thick

mattress. From his dreamland he inquires solicitously:

"Have you ever thought of a Rajah Double Spring as a

present?" We PAN DOWN and FIND the Pals and Arun and his

family, panting, terrified, beneath the sign.

Hasari can see on everyone's face this question.

Yet on his face we see the extraordinary pressure to make

this promise reality.

EXT. SIDE OF RESTAURANT

Hasari reaches the head of a line and receives a small

handout. Turning away, he  studies the morsel of food.

His head aches, his belly screams with hunger... but he

takes only a single bite, then carefully wraps the rest

in a cloth and knots it.

CONTINUED:

He feels a tug at his elbow.   It's a 15-year-old BOY with

thick, scholarly spectacles.

Hasari stares at the boy.

INT. BLOOD DISPENSARY - CLOSE ON HASARI'S ARM - DAY

A needle injected, blood flowing into a bottle.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Hasari seated on a stool, watching his blood leave his

body, his face broken out in perspiration.

HIS POV

Rafik and a thin man chatting easily and exchanging ciga-

rettes with another attendant. His vision BLURS.

HASARI AND NURSE

With his free hand, he begins to grapple for the Atten-

dant to keep his balance, starts to fall... and the

SCREEN GOES BLACK.

FADE IN:

EXT. DISPENSARY - DAY

A woozy Hasari gives Rafik his share; Rafik in turn gives

the thin man his share. The thin man bows his farewell.

CONTINUED:

He opens his hand with its dirty nails. In it lie a

little group of pills, like highly-colored sweets.

While Hasari considers, Rafik pours the pills into

Hasari's hand, takes the three rupees. Hasari downs the

pills.

And he's gone, leaving Hasari, woozy but at least, for

the moment, blessed to count his money.

INT. MAX'S ROOM - NIGHT

Max lies on his messed bed, contorted, with his feet up

over his head against the wall. A book lies open beside

him. A half-eaten room service meal, many hours old,

moulders on the bedside table. Max is babbling a mock

sports case into his fist...

A KNOCK at the door. Max shuts up, falls off the wall.

He crosses to the door. Opens it. POOMINA is 16,

beautiful and exotic-looking behind her excessive makeup.

ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING MAX

The porter pushes the girl gently into the room, smiling

at Max, nodding. The door is closed.

MAX AND POOMINA

He may have been receptive to a "sweet, young girl," but

not a kid in her teens.

She approaches him seductively.

She fingers the   Hebrew letter at Max's throat, on its

gold chain. For    a moment, Max is mesmerized by this

child; but then,   as she begins more serious ministra-

tions, he pulls   back.

There's something desperate in her that makes him put a

finger to her lips and say...

She stares at him.

INT. MAX'S ROOM - NIGHT (HALF HOUR LATER)

Max smokes a Monte  Cristo and watches Poomina, like a

frightened little  animal, devour the last of a Green

Acres room service  meal and then wrap a small piece of

fish in the paper  napkin.

CONTINUED:

She looks up at him, delivers a small burp.    Covers her

mouth in charming embarrassment.

As he escorts her toward the door, Poomina is distressed.

Max realizes she can't leave empty-handed. He pulls out

some notes.

She hasn't given up, though, and as he takes the money,

she stands on tiptoe and kisses him. Torn, Max begins

to respond. He stops  himself, his grip on her causing

her discomfort. His  breath comes in little bursts.

He leads her toward the door. Like some lunatic comedy.

she resists. He pushes. She locks her knees. He opens

the door.

He muscles her out the  door, closes it, wipes his lips.

He stares at a parade  of cockroaches gliding along the

wall as he listens to  her CRYING quietly on the other

side of the door. He   debates... and he loses. Opens the

door. Poomina stands   there; the tears stop and a lip-

twitching smile lights  her face.

She slides into his arms, pressing against him. With his

shoulder, he closes the door, leaving us outside.

INT. BACK ALLEY - BAR - FLAMING LIGHT - NIGHT

A bare light bulb; a SCRATCHY vinyl RECORD on a turn-

table.

CONTINUED:

Poomina watches Max do a sleight-of-hand trick with a

coin. He tosses it up, brings his hands past each other,

then holds out his fists; she picks on... but the other

holds the penny. Fooled, she laughs. He does it again;

she points to one fist -- empty -- then other -- also

empty. Max reaches behind her ear and... produces the

coin. She loves it, her laughter escalating. But then

she seesm to read something in the b.g. where we see four

thugs, two of whom will become known to us as THE GOONDA,

a capo to the local "mafia" chieftan, and ASHOKA, son of

the local Godfather. Ashoka works on a pimple on his

chin. The Goonda meticulously cleans a spot of mud with

spit from one of his expensive new running shoes. Max

eyes the thugs eyeing him.

This remark goes over big with the thugs. Max doesn't

care. He knocks off the last of the beer in his bottle.

The bartender brings them two shots of something in two

unmatched glasses.

She puts her glass to her lips and, in a childish,

exaggerated way, mimes waiting for him to commence a

drinking race with her. The two of them toss off what's

in their glasses. The bangla in Max's glass is stronger

than battery acid. He does an elaborate routine involv-

ing the pain, the surprise, the sheer awfulness of the

drink. But puts it down with mock machismo.

CONTINUED:

She turns to the bartender, calls for two more. All the

while, in the b.g., The Goonda and his two thugs watch

emotionlessly and Ashoka works on his acne.

EXT. BAR - NIGHT

Max sings "Take It to the Limit" with enormous inebriated

sincerity as Poomina helps him out of the bar. There's a

big black motorcycle parked outside. Max glances at it

as they start down the alley. As he looks back to the

road ahead, he finds The Goonda in front of him. Max

isn't so drunk that he doesn't sense what this is about.

He looks behind him. Indeed, the other two goons are

there. Ashoka straddles the big cycle.

Knowing what's  coming, Max nevertheless unleashes a

beautiful howl  and tries to trample The Goonda off-

tackle. From   behind, he's hit with a length of stick.

He goes down,  looks up through blasted eyes at Ashoka as

two sticks now  land against his shoulder and his head...

EXT. MAHARAJAH SIGN - NIGHT

The Pals sleep beneath the sign. Hasari awakens from

restive sleep to the sound of a FIGHT. He gets up. The

others awaken.

Hasari bolts for the corner.

ALLEYWAY

As Hasari turns into the head of the alley, he can see

three men beating someone, a fourth man standing off to

the side, watching.

As Hasari runs down the alley, the MOTORCYCLE FIRES UP

and SCREAMS OFF and the three goons take flight.

HASARI AND MAX

Hasari runs up, reaches out to Max, who's barely on his

feet. As Hasari touches Max, Max turns and belts Hasari

in the nose, nailing Hasari to the wall as Max collapses

at Hasari's feet. Hasari grabs his nose with one hand

and kneels beside the fallen Max... as a shadow moves

and startles Hasari. He peers into the dark... and

Poomina steps into the light.

INT. CLINIC/SCHOOL (CITY OF JOY) - MAX'S POV - CRUCIFIX

- DAY

The crucifix sways. Now Max's eyes RACK FOCUS TO the

cherubic face of JOAN BETHAL, peering AT the CAMERA

without sympathy.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Max on a cot in a tiny, spare room, a butterfly bandage

under one eye. Joan, Irish, short, stout, hovers over

him. Behind her, Hasari Pal.

Max manages to sit up.   Wishes he hadn't.

CONTINUED:

Hasari shrugs, smiles... and a gigantic rat drops in

Max's lap. He leaps to his feet and against the wall.

The rat scurries away.

Max clambers for the door.        Too late, Joan thinks to

say...

Max cracks his head on the door frame.

He ducks outside for some air.

EXT. CLINIC/SCHOOL - NIZAMUDHIN LANE - MAX'S FACE

Stunned.

SQUARE

In the dawn light, he finds himself in a small square in

a slum, an open sewer running before him. He's repulsed.

From the tea shop, SURYA, a stout old Hindu man dressed

in Western clothes, raises a hand in greeting to Joan.

On the door Max and Joan have come through: "City of Joy

Self Help School & Clinic." Across the way, a young man

is dandling a baby on his knee, rubbing its back and

sniffing at its neck. Small group of children around a

blackboard with a teacher, MARGARETA, doing numbers.

RAM CHANDAR, the rickshaw puller, readies to go out to

work. Trying to orient himself, Max turns...

ANOTHER ANGLE

... to find perhaps fifty people, largely women and

children, staring at him.

CONTINUED:

He knows them by type:   patients.   He looks at the sign

on the door.

Max is slow to answer.   Discreetly, Hasari hangs back,

listens.

CONTINUED:

Max turns to Hasari. Hasari is incredibly shy, can

barely meet Max's eyes.

He goes for his money.

Max finds his pockets empty. Then reaches for his wrist

-- his watch is gone -- and then his throat -- his chai

is gone, too.

She holds out several rupees toward him.      All eyes on

them.

EXT. STREET - FLYING FEET - DAY

Max in the rickshaw, Hasari running alongside Ram, an

exuberant smile slashed across his face.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly, Ram comes to a stop.

Hasari looks on Max with enormous gratitude. Ram puts

the shafts down, has a short coughing fit, spits some

phlegm, looks at Max.

Ram waves him off as Hasari lifts the shafts to his hips.

Hasari tries to pull, but the center of gravity isn't

easy to find. This is enormously difficult and Hasari's

very clumsy at it. The street is crowded. The traffic

is beginning to back up behind them. The driver and

conductor of the tram let fly a tirade of insults.

He turns to Max.

CONTINUED:

The crowd isn't in for fun. Hasari strains forward.

The rickshaw moves with him. Ram moves alongside,

shouting instructions and oaths. A cop comes on the run,

screaming at Hasai... which makes Ram importune more

strongly and Max joke more vociferously.

Even under this incredible pressue, Hasari gains

confidence and begins to move quicker, earning shouts

of approval from Max and Ram, who now has trouble

keeping up as they make their way through the maelstrom,

an avalanche of oaths following them.

INT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY

At first all we see are feet on a marble floor. The

Goonda's in his running shoes, then Ram and Hasari's

bare feet.

This is the partitioned splendor of an old house

sprinkled with the relics of a grand colonial past.

Everything is baroque, rotting and somehow impressive.

Hasari has never been anywhere like this, and is caught

between curiosity and fear of breathing.

INT. "THRONE ROOM"

The three men enter a large room shuttered from the sun-

light -- dusty and packed with a ramshackle assortment

of furniture. Two fat blue titmice perch in a cage next

to ambitious plaster portrait of Napolean.

Sitting behind a desk is Ashoka, leaning over a mirror,

squeezing a balky pimple.

Near a large window, his 60-year-old father, GHATAK, in

a European jacket and dhoti, works with intense concen-

tration at repairing a pair of broken glasses with a

twist of fine wire.

The three new arrivals stand silent and respectful

before the desk. At last, without raising his head...

CONTINUED:

Ram indicates Hasari, as if there might be some question

to whom he's referring. Ashoka attacks the pimple.

The Goonda places a small bundle of rupees on the desk.

Ashoka allows himself a disinterested glance at

Hasari.

Ashoka pulls back his lips, shows his teeth and imitates

a neigh: "Ne-igh! Ne-igh!"

Finished with the pimple, Ashoka wipes a finger on his

shirt and takes a helping off a plate of sweetcakes

as...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Behind him, The Godfather walks up to the desk, putting

his glasses on. He barely glances at his son, but

waves him out of the chair.

Ashoka doesn't like it, but he steps aside. As he does,

he turns a look of hatred on Hasari. Through no fault of

his own, Hasari has made an enemy. Ghatak chews on a pan

and casts a benevolent eye on Hasari.

Hasari does.    The Godfather looks at his legs and thighs.

Hasari doesn't know whether to respond. A glance at

Ram tells him not to. Ghatak gestures for Hasari to

lower his longhi.

He chews on this a moment, then opens a drawer... and

holds a small, tinkling rickshaw bell toward Hasari.

Hasari understands that, incredibly, he has a job. His

breath is so shallow, he can barely utter his gratitude.

He takes the bell.

The Godfather turns his beatific and Godlike smile on

Hasari Pal.

EXT. MATTRESS SIGN - DAY (EARLY EVENING)

Transitor MUSIC. The Pals load the rickshaw that stands

at the road with Ram in it. There are embraces with the

bruised Arun and his family.

EXT. SQUARE - NIGHT (EARLY EVENING)

We hear the BELL TINKLING as the rickshaw, pulled by

Hasari, carrying Ram and Aloka (holding Shambu) arrives

(Amrita and Manooj trotting beside their father). Surya,

Selima, other neighbors greet them as they come. The

Pals glance into the school at Joan, who's teaching

an evening class.

WITH PALS

Reverentially, they follow Ram inside as Joan watches.

INT. RAM'S HUT - NIGHT

A door opens. Moonlight. Faces peer through the door.

Ram lights an oil lamp. In the glow, the family looks

around their tiny space. Hardly able to suppress smiles.

In their excitement, the boys run.

OUTSIDE

and up to the roof, under the stars.   We LOOK UP WITH

them and:

EXT. GREEN ACRES - ON SKY - NIGHT

PAN DOWN TO Max on his balcony playing his trumpet as we

continue to

FADE IN:

EXT. SQUARE AND STREET (CITY OF JOY) - DAY

About twenty tattered street kids faces shining with en-

joyment. They run and shout as they pursue something

just out of frame.

WIDE SHOT

The cause of the excitement is Hasari running TOWARD us,

feet flying, as he pulls the rickshaw, loaded with a huge

sack. Manooj and Shambu are clinging to the sides of the

machine.

Ram stands   in the center of the square. He shouts a

command and   Hasari struggles to bring the rickshaw to a

stop. It's    not easy and Sunil -- who's arriving -- has to

jump out of   the way to the accompaniment of apologies from

Hasari and   Ram and hoots of laughter from the children.

Outside the clinic, a line of perhaps seventy-five wait

patiently, watching as Hasari takes off again. The wheels

of the rickshaw hit a rut. Hasari loses control, the sack

tips back and Hasari is lifted into the air, feet kicking

as he tries to regain his balance. Aloka and Amrita,

sitting near the bawling Ram, can't hold back their

laughter.

EXT. SQUARE - HIGH ANGLE - DAY

The square is set with obstacles. As Ram shouts instruc-

tion, we see Hasari negotiate them with much increased

skill. He stops in front of a small group. It's his

family, plus Joan and Surya. With an exhausted smile, he

signs to Aloka and Amrita to get in. They do, and Hasari

takes them triumphantly around the circuit.

HIGH ANGLE

Hasari's triumphant ride continues and we:

EXT. PARK STREET - DAY

Hasari rubs the moonstone in his ring on the shafts, then

touches his heart and his forehead. A SCHOOL GIRL in

uniform, approaches the rickshaw stand. We also see

several other pullers, Rassoul, Chomotkar, Ramatullah.

CONTINUED:

The line of rickshaw pullers  turns to Hasari. The other

pullers wish him well as he  comes forward. His heart

pounds; ever so politely, he  helps the School Girl into

his carriage. She gives him   the address of the St. Pius

School.

She gives him a sweet smile.

His moment has arrived. He looks at Ram... and thrusts

his hips forward, setting off into the insanity of the

traffic, eyes flicking left and right. A HORN RAILS at

him and a taxi tries to run him down, calling and laugh-

ing as Hasari jumps in terror.

Other pullers laugh,  call after Hasari... and as he

approaches the first  corner, he manages to pull out a

rupee and deposit it  into the hand of the impassive

traffic policeman and  then turn right.

EXT. ST. PIUS - DAY

The School Girl hands him a slip of paper.

The girl runs into the school  yard, met immediately by

friends. Hasari looks around   at the clean, bustling

school, at all the children in  their crisp uniforms and

a look of great yearning comes  over his face.

INT. SMALL RESTAURANT - DAY

Max is trying to explain to the waiter what he wants.

Now, though, he just glimpses the shiny gas tank and

engine of a motorcycle around the hip of the waiter.

He leans out.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Ashoka, astride his motorcycle, GUNNING the ENGINE as a

boy runs out of a store with an armload of cassettes.

WITH MAX AND WAITER

WITH ASHOKA

He pulls the boy's ear, REVS the ENGINE to go... and

senses someone close. He turns to find an American

hovering at his shoulder.

He reaches for the necklace with the Hebrew letter.

Ashoka recognizes Max. Looks around for help. There is

none.

Max grabs Ashoka... who breaks free, and GUNS the CYCLE

down a side street. Max gives chase, his aching ribs

slowing him a bit.

SEVERAL CUTS

Ashoka, glancing back, begins to open up some distance.

Yet, Max hangs tough, weaving like a broken field runner

through the mass of bodies and vehicles. Now, suddenly,

he loses Ashoka. He has to make a choice about this

corner or that one. He chooses.

EXT. CITY OF JOY - AROUND CORNER - DAY (EARLY EVENING)

A COP steps into his path.   He sees Ashoka up ahead.    He's

hopelessly out of breath.

He can't talk and breathe. He points desperately. The

Cop glances where Max points, but he makes no move to

give chase.

A crowd has begun to form. In the distance, we see a

group of girls carrying cricket equipment COMING AT us.

The Cop obviously is doing this at Ashoka's behest. Max

starts around the Cop. The Cop, however, sticks his club

in Max's face; there's fire in Max's eyes... but a hand

takes the Cop's stick before Max can make a big mistake.

ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING OWNER OF HAND

The girls with the cricket equipment (and Margareta,

the teacher). The hand belongs to Joan Bethel.

EXT. POST OFFICE - DAY

A scribe finishes writing a note home for Hasari.   The

scribe hands it to Hasari.

INSERT - NOTE AND MONEY ORDER

"We are well. Manooj does not go in the cinema. I am

earning my living as a rickshaw wallah. It is my

honor to send you this."

RESUME

With great pride, Hasari pays the scribe, seals the money

order with the message in an envelope, licks the flap,

and puts the envelope into the mail slot.

EXT. SQUARE (CITY OF JOY) - TEA SHOP - DAY (DUSK)

Surya plays his zither. Max and Joan sit at a table. Max

pops little boiled candies into his mouth from a dish on

the table.

CONTINUED:

They stare at each other. Shambu has become one of

Surya's tea boys and refills their tea.

Max peers at her a moment, then around the square.

The clinic's part-time doctor, SUNIL DASGUPTA, comes out

of the clinic after a very long day.

Shambu pries his father's fist open:   seeds.

CONTINUED:

EXT. RAM'S HUNT NIGHT - UPSTAIRS

Children leaning down as smoke wafts up. We FOLLOW the

smoke DOWN TO Max's cigar. Aloka and Amrita laying the

food out. Shambu rubbing his father's aching legs as

Hasari and Manooj plant the seeds in Hasari's little tea

caddy full of earth from home. Max is watching this

"family" huddled around the father.

This beautiful picture burrows into Hasari's mind.   For

a moment, he goes there -- home, to the village...

Ram laughs, Hasari smiles...

Amrita is terribly embarrassed.

He laughs at the impossibility of the price.

CONTINUED:

Joan indicates that Max should let it go.    Hasari ever

so carefully waters the tea box.

Max has to laugh.

Now everyone's attentions is taken by a CRY from Shambu,

who expels his breath, his terrified eyes directing our

attention to...

ANOTHER ANGLE

It's an amazing sight. Two lepers: ANOUAR, bearded with

a sharp intelligent, unmarked face, makes his way along

on a small wheeled board, at an amazingly fast pace,

ahead of SAID, a huge, mute leper. They stop some feet

away. Lepers aren't often welcome. Out from behind Said

steps Poomina.

CONTINUED:

She sees Max, gasps, throws herself behind Said. Joan

looks at Max -- he starts to speak, she points a finger

that silences him...

She moves to them.   They're all three badly out of breath.

WITH JOAN AND LEPERS

ANOTHER ANGLE

Joan turns to Max, who hasn't heard the exchange.

Max is clearly thrown by the sight of the lepers.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly, impulsively...

There are murmurs of assent from the others.

A beat -- everyone fixed on Max.

EXT. PATH-NIGHT

The moon reflects off the dark puddles of muddy water

that line the side of the railway tracks. Anouar

propels his board with astonishing agility along the

path, Said and Poomina running with him. Max, Joan,

carrying a first aid bag, Aloka and Hasari following,

slipping and sliding on the rough ground with its

puddles and sewage.

EXT. RAILWAY LINE - LEPER HUTS - NIGHT

The little procession arrives outside the three rough

huts, made of bamboo, plastic sheeting, cloth, wood

and cardboard. A few shadows materialize. Lepers --

staring silently.

Anouar points into a hut. Joan and Aloka precede Max

inside. Max forgets to bend and bumps his head.

INT. HUT - NIGHT

The only light is the feeble waver from a candle. The

blind Meeta lies on a rough mattress on the ground. Her

ragged sari is pulled up to her middle. Her face runs

with sweat, her hair is plastered to her face. A girl

with black eyes is fanning her with a piece of wood.

Meeta sends up a SOFT, uninterrupted MOAN. A wedge of

blood-soaked cloth is between her legs.

CONTINUED:

A middle-age leper is leaning over her -- a midwife,

encouraging Meeta with a string of commands in their

own language.

Max kneels, Aloka at his side.   His breathing becomes

shallow... but then he pulls off  the blood-soaked

bandages. Between Meeta's legs   he can just make out

the bottom of a foot. The child   is breached. Maybe

already dead.

Max goes into reflex actions. Joan has opened the first

aid kit. There's a flashlight among the medicine,

alcohol, compresses, scissors, etc. He hands the flash-

light to Aloka as...

He nods at Aloka; she illuminates the scene.

He comes to a stop. Everyone stares at him. Meeta

moans. For a moment, he stays frozen. Aloka reaches

out instinctively, wipes the sweat from his eyes. This

gesture seems to free him; he looks at her, looks at the

room and its expectant, trusting faces...

He doesn't finish the sentence. Aloka speaks softly to

Meeta as Max takes Meeta's arm, makes a tourniquet.

Joan hands him the syringe and he injects. Hands the

syringe back to Joan and begins to work at turning the

baby.

Aloka takes Meeta's hand and it's a moment before we

realize Aloka, with her fine hand, is holding Meeta's

fingerless palm.

OUTSIDE

A small group waits, trying to determine from the sounds

what's happening inside. Anouar pours tea from a pot on

the small fire, offers the cup to Hasari. Hasari stares

at the cup, doesn't want to be impolite, but more than

that, doesn't want to touch the cup. He shakes his head,

smiles. Anouar drinks off the tea.

INSIDE

Sweat pours down Max's face into his eyes. He shakes it

out. Aloka leans forward and, with her new sari, wipes

the sweat away again. Max nods thanks.

He demonstrates. Aloka does the same to Meeta. Meeta

tries to cooperate. And suddenly Max has the baby

turned.

Aloka translates. Meeta pushes.      The midwife, the little

girl, Aloka lean forward.

OUTSIDE

No one is sitting now. Everyone hangs close to the

door. Only Hasari remains apart, seated on a tree stump

in the middle of the quad. He coughs; suppresses it.

INSIDE

Aloka wipes the sweat away again. He looks at her, his

voice squeezed out through his teeth.

CONTINUED:

He seems as released as Meeta. Then he gives a last

gentle tug and a CRY squeezes out of the little piece of

life in his hands. Max is fairly overwhelmed by the life

in his hands. Poomina steps close, a smile on her lovely

face, and touches the baby in Max's hands.

EXT. LANE - NIGHT

Max, Joan, Aloka and Hasari walk in silence down Nizamudhin

Lane. There is only the mingled  sound of COUGHING,

MOANING, and a TRANSISTOR RADIO nearby playing a popular

song. Outside the clinic, they  stop. She takes his hand.

It's a warm, open moment between them.   But now there's

the ongoing desperation of her needs.

Joan goes inside, leaving Max, Aloka, and a very uncom-

fortable Hasari alone a moment.

A little smile comes over her face; no one's ever paid

her that kind of compliment. She goes into Ram's hut,

leaving Max and Hasari now.

CONTINUED:

Hasari brings his hands together and goes inside.

EXT./INT. JOAN'S AND THE PAL'S (ALTERNATE) - NIGHT

Max hears Joan praying inside.

THE PALS

Aloka sits huddled with her husband while their children

sleep; they listen...

MAX

listens.

Suddenly, he hurtles into motion. He runs down the alley,

his stride stretching out, swallowing up the distance

between here and the world beyond the City of Joy in

great gulps.

EXT. CALCUTTA AIRPORT - ESTABLISHING - DAY

A busy, urban airport as opposed to the small country

airport in which we saw Max earlier. V.O. we hear...

INT. AIRPORT - DAY

It's a small place; it's sweltering, and it's packed

with hundreds of families shoulder to shoulder. Though

Betsy's trying to be discreet, it's not a very private

place, as we see by the number of people watching Max

and Betsy.

He's trying to woo and charm her.    He mimes a kind of

house shape.

CONTINUED:

He fires a strike through the watching crowd.

CONTINUED:

She can't find anything fierce enough, so she abates,

tries to get it together to make a dignified exit.

She heads for the gate, people parting to give her a

wide berth.

MOVING SHOT - TOWARD THE GATE

She hands her ticket and boarding pass over and she's

through the gate. Max turns to find the audience fixed

on him.

CONTINUED:

Many smiles... and several instant offers of rupees.      A

beat, then...

... Swallowing his incredible embarrassment, Max takes

the money.

EXT. SQUARE - DAY (EARLY MORNING)

The line is long. At this moment, Joan is checking a

child's throat with a tongue-depressor. Aloka is walking

beside her with a fistful of depressors and a bag for

disposal. Hasari and Ram are getting ready to leave.

Anouar appears at Joan's waist.

Anouar hands Joan some newspaper in which something is

wrapped. Joan opens the paper. Inside is a good deal of

money.

Anouar's focus is up the lane.   Joan follows his focus

to:

THEIR POV

Max approaches. A buzz    about Max's heroics; hands coming

together. Max raises a    hand in benediction, makes the

sign of the cross. Max    claps Hasari on the shoulder;

Hasari brings his hands   together and gives Max a

genuinely pleased smile.    Children circle and touch him,

Manooj and Shambu among   them.

BACK TO SCENE

Aloka smiles, she nods, she accepts.

CONTINUED:

And now smiles creep onto all their faces as Max goes

inside, followed by Joan... and then Aloka -- after she

looks at Hasari, gets his nod of encouragement. Too late,

Joan says...

Thud!

The children titter. The teacher, Margareta, admonishes

them to pay attention and be polite... as we --

FADE IN:

EXT. SCHOOL GIRL'S HOUSE - HASARI'S WHEELS - DAY (TWO

WEEKS LATER)

The wheels spinning furiously and then stopping abruptly.

Hasari, dripping with sweat, panting. The School Girl

comes running toward him. After her, in the b.g., her

MOTHER.

CONTINUED:

Panting helplessly, Hasari smiles... as he helps the

School Girl's Mother into the rickshaw.

Briskly, he takes up the shafts and sets off.

Obediently, Hasari turns (as Ramatullah, heading the

other way, passes; they wave) and Hasari pulls AWAY FROM

us.

EXT. SECOND WEDDING SHOP - DAY

He helps them out of the rickshaw in front of an

expensive-looking bridal shop.

The Mother gives the School Girl a withering look and

hustles her into the shop. Hasari can just barely

hear...

CONTINUED:

ON HASARI

He watches from outside, a look of determination coming

over his face. Suddenly a pair of fingers takes hold of

his ear, twisting his face painfully.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Ashoka, with The Goonda and two henchmen, in the b.g.

Called to work, Hasari starts for his rickshaw, but

Ashoka hangs on to his ear for another uncomfortable

moment... as he slips a rupee into Hasari's shirt pocket.

Now he hands Hasari a sealed envelope and turns his ear

loose. Hasari springs toward his passenger.

INT. EXAMINING ROOM - DAY

Max with his stethoscope to Meeta's baby. Meeta in a

brightly-colored sari and a lot of bracelets and Aloka

looks on. Poomina clings to the wall.

CONTINUED:

Aloka asks Meeta in Hindi. Meeta clearly swears she's

giving the baby the milk. Aloka pushes her.

Aloka does so as Max bounces the baby, coos to it play-

fully. The baby pees all over him. Aloka translates

quickly. Meeta starts apologizing. Poomina can't help

laughing. Max reminds Meeta that that's once for each

of the two weeks of the baby's life. Aloka soothes Meeta

as she hustles her, Poomina, and the baby out, then

quickly begins to wipe Max's face with a clean rag. This

isn't something she's accustomed to doing, but she's

doing it before she has time to think. Max finds himself

conscious of her closeness to him... and then she becomes

suddenly self-conscious and she backs off, ducks her

head. He peeks up under.

She looks at him.

He smiles.   So does she.

EXT. SQUARE - DAY (EARLY EVENING)

Sunil stands outside the clinic, rolling his sleeves

down. Anouar waits at a polite distance. Exhausted but

exhilarated, Max and Aloka emerge with an elderly woman

patient, Max singing Chuck Berry to the woman's embar-

rassed delight: "They're really rockin' in Boston, in

Philadelphia, P.A..." Sunil looks at his American

colleague, smiles a small smile.

CONTINUED:

"... Deep in the heart of Texas, around the Frisco

Bay..." Manooj and Shambu come charging at Max with the

soccer ball, hoping to engage him as a playmate. Hasari

returns home with his rickshaw.

Selima waves at Max, indicates she's cooking dinner.

Joan wanders out of the school as the kids are released

and go charging through the square. Joan has the Pal

kids in hand.

Between Hasari and Aloka, there's just a flicker of

tension; evidently, this has become Max's (and her)

normal day. But he's also worried about the note from

Ashoka. Joan joins them with the Pal children.

Behind the children's backs, she points at Manooj and

indicates the kid's really got a head.

CONTINUED:

For a moment, Hasari is swept up in this little reverie,

then remembers reality.

Amidst instant concern, Joan opens the envelope.   Looks

at Max. We hear the sound of BANGLADESH MUSIC.

INT. GODFATHER'S "THRONE ROOM" - OLD RADIO - DAY

The MUSIC is of days gone by, playing on an old RADIO.

Sticks of burning incense send off trails of smoke. The

godfather, MR. GHATAK, Looking infirm, wipes a tear from

his eye.

Now we see   Max and Joan seated on cushions before the

godfather,   tea in hand. Max catches a glimpse in an

anteroom of   several thugs with several young girls, one

of whom is   Poomina. She catches a glimpse of Max as she

disappears   past a door. A moment later, her head peeks

around the   door frame. She brings her hands together.

Poomina quickly disappears.   Max's attention is pulled

back to the godfather...

CONTINUED:

Joan throws up her hands -- how do you reason with this

man?

CONTINUED:

He dispatches a globule of spit into the copper urn next

to his right toe... and tries to get to his feet. The

Goonda hurries forward to help him.

One of the thugs helps the godfather outside, where, in

the b.g., we see him listening to his music and pottering

in his garden. As Max and Joan turn, Max finds himself

face to face with Ashoka, who wears Max's necklace and

chai. There's a long pause as the two of them take the

other's measure.

Joan puts a cautioning hand on Max's arm. Ashoka seems

just the slight bit uneasy dealing with Max and so keeps

trying to direct himself to Joan. He smokes a long

Indian cigarette.

Joan is taken aback by the sum.

CONTINUED:

The question would seem to be whether Ashoka will have

Max killed here or outside the house. His eyes on Max,

Ashoka puts the cigarette out against the back of his

hand... and smiles at Max.

EXT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Joan is furious.

He tickles her; she knocks his hands away; he tickles her

again.

He doesn't stop, and as she storms off down the street,

he stays right on her, tickling away.

INT. METAL PIECEWORK SHOP - DAY

It's dark and claustrophobic. The air vibrates with the

SQUEAL and CLATTER of METAL. About twenty kids sit in a

line, back to back, manipulating aseries of lethal and

unprotected lathes and polishers. No one can hear his

neighbor.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Hasari, with Shambu in the rickshaw, arrives to take the

children home. As he looks inside, he notices...

HASARI'S POV

Not far from Amrita sits a handsome boy (Subash). He

catches Amrita's eyes. Amrita is sweetly embarrassed

to find her father staring at her.

ON HASARI

But he can't help but smile. At the same time he's re-

minded moment to moment of his various obligations.

EXT. SIDE STREET - DAY

The three kids in the rickshaw. An ambassador car

swerves in front of Hasari, forcing him to jam to a stop,

jolting the kids. The Goonda sits in the back seat with

Ashoka, who carves his fingernails with a switchblade

knife. He crooks a finger at Hasari. Hasari leans close

and Ashoka takes him by the ear.

He gives Hasari's ear a last tug... and the car continues

on, leaving Hasari. He looks at his children, ashamed

to have been cowed. Manooj fixes his father with a hard

look.

EXT. JOAN'S ROOM - KIDS - ABOVE - NIGHT

Leaning over, listening, taking in the aroma of...

INT. JOAN'S ROOM

Max's cigar. He sits slightly apart from Joan, Sunil,

Aloka, Ram, Hasari, Selima, Margareta, Surya, SALADDIN,

ASHISH and Shanta, Aristotle John, MEHBOUB, Anouar, and

Said.

Hasari is stretched out, Aloka rubbing his screaming

legs. Throughout the following, their eyes meet and

deflect...

A sigh escapes Surya.   He shakes his head.    Eyes

flick at him.

This is startling and is met with a babble of cautious

agreement and dispute.

CONTINUED:

Still, he's clearly piqued a lot of support.

Everyone stares at him. Many of them want to buy his

commitment. There's another large sigh from Surya.

Aloka and Hasari's eyes bang off of each other, she

silently urging him to speak. He's deeply conflicted

and deeply frightened.

Said, the giant mute, mades an unintelligible sound in

his throat, but clearly he's agreeing with Anouar.

CONTINUED:

Silence... until Aloka and Hasari's meet again and, out

of his terrible fear and conflict, he says very shyly...

There are quick nods around the room.   With great difficulty,

Hasari says his piece.

There's still dissension, but somewhat more support.

Said makes a fierce, unintelligible supportive sound.

Surya sighs again. Eyes flick at the old man.

Surya clucks his tongue and shakes his head; everyone

assumes he is preparing a heated refutation of the

resisters. His sighs, though, have been a building

commitment.

CONTINUED:

Many of the faces are uncertain -- Hasari's notable among

them.

MONTAGE - INT./EXT. COWSHEDS - DAY

A) Two cows are shooed out of the ramshackle building as

B) Said, with the strength of three men, holds up a heavy

C) We see    that Max and Hasari are thrown together again

D) The whole    group shares a meal, prepared under   the

E) Equipment from the old school/clinic being moved from

F) Max and Aloka do one of those dances where two people

G) As Max puts medicine into a cabinet, Ram peeks in,

H) A small truck carrying a charitable organization's

CONTINUED:

I) UPSTAIRS AND STAIRWELL

J) THEIR POV

K) UPSTAIRS

EXT. CLINIC - NIGHT

Everyone lingers, adults and children. Max plays his

trumpet, accompanying Surya on his zither. Manooj

hovers over Max.

Max points at his trumpet, continues playing.

Max indicates his pocket. Manooj takes out a cigar and a

clip. Clips the cigar, holds it out to Max, who indi-

cates Manooj should light it, and keeps playing. Manooj

looks at Hasari, who nods. Shambu holds a match to it.

Everyone watches as if this were a major event. Manooj

takes a puff, chokes, offers the cigar to Mehboub, who

takes it, puffs, passes it. Everyone relaxes, enjoys the

peacefulness of the smoking and the aroma wafting upward.

Ram taps at Max's elbow.

Ram produces a mangled one piece letter -- envelope.

CONTINUED:

He thrusts the paper at Max.   Max takes a pen from his

pocket.

Max looks at him, nods, waits.   Ram stares at Max; waits.

Everybody laughs, though Ram's remark hits Max on a

deeper level. Manooj slides in beside him.

A look between Max and Aloka; Hasari's eyes flicking at

both of them... as Aloka's eyes come to Hasari. The

cigar reaches Ram. As Max starts to write, Ram takes

a large puff and blows a huge ring out of his mouth. We

FOLLOW it.

ABOVE

A whole row of faces on rooftops enjoying the cigar.

This as we:

EXT. GREEN ACRES - THROUGH RICKSHAW WHEELS - DAY

THROUGH the WHEELS we see Max come briskly out of the

hotel carrying his doctor's bag. He's met by the sight

of Hasari between the shafts of his rickshaw and Anouar

and Meeta perched on the seat.

Max climbs into the rickshaw beside the two lepers and

Hasari pulls away.

Meeta, of course, is blind.   Max, Hasari, Anouar laugh.

CONTINUED:

As the rickshaw disappears into the sea of people and

vehicles, we hear Anouar and Max LAUGHING.

EXT. SIDE STREET - DAY

Margareta, Manooj, Shambu, Shoba, several other kids and,

at the end of the line, Poomina, all carrying water on

their heads toward the City of Joy. Suddenly, someone

whispers to Poomina. One of Ashoka's thugs. She glances

after Margareta and the other kids who are turning a

corner and steps into:

ALLEYWAY

Where Ashoka waits.

She's fearful now and doesn't respond. He grabs her,

the water pitcher crashes to the ground, he puts his

knife into her mouth and lays her face open on both side

with his knife.

EXT. CITY OF JOY - DAY

Aloka comes TOWARD us leading a group of lepers.     And

stops. Her hand goes to her mouth.

THEIR POV - CLINIC - FROM DISTANCE

Two hundred normal people lined up outside the gaily be-

decked dispensary -- many mothers with small children in

their arms. Shanta sees Aloka, gestures to indicate the

incredible turn-out. The normals at the end of the line

turn to look at the approaching LEPERS.

CONTINUED:

As if indeed she were right, their path is suddenly cut

off by the Goonda and a commando of thugs, armed with

sticks and iron bars, backed up by a group carrying

banners with slogans proclaiming in Hindi, Urdu, English:

"We Don't Want Lepers Here!" There's a sudden uneasy

silence. Behind the thugs a short distance is the

policeman who harassed Max earlier and another cop.

Joan hurries forward.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Hasari arrives with Max, Anouar, and Meeta.

The Goonda puts his hand on Aloka.   The policeman in the

b.g. keep their distance.

Joan is seized by a sudden fury and grabs the Goonda.

He grabs her much harder. Said growls and pushes

forward. Several thugs turn, step in to neutralize him.

Joan elbows the Goonda and tires to westle free of him.

As a reflex he raises his hand. And as he does, it's

seized.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Max (with Hasari in the b.g., confused, conficted).   Max

slings the Goonda against the side of a truck.

CONTINUED:

Aloka starts forward, leading the lepers. She's stopped

by a sudden blow from the Goonda's stick across her

shoulders, knocking her to the ground, bleeding from the

neck.

Hasari bolts for his wife, gets caught up in the melee.

Max swings   around on the Goonda and for the first time we

realize how   strong he is, and that he knows how to box.

The Goonda   goes down and violence erupts. Anouar is

chopping at   the legs of one of the thugs working on Said.

The massive   Said tears free and starts to beat the crap

out of the   two thugs holding him.

The noise brings everyone out of the square, those lined

up at the clinic, the children from the school.

Sunil comes flying out of the clinic.

A stampede of those waiting outside the dispensary and

those normally in the crowded alley ensues. Shanta runs

inside for help. Shopkeepers barricade their shop

windows.

One of the thugs pours gasoline over Anouar and  lights a

match. Hasari kneels beside Aloka when he sees   the

match ignite the tiny leper. Without thinking,   Hasari

hurls himself on top of Anouar, rolling him in  the dirt

and against his own body to put out the flames.

Joan shouts, demanding the violence stop. She's hit

from behind; she decides talk isn't going to do it. She

grabs a piece of lumber and starts to fight.

ANGLE ON DISPENSARY

An EXPLOSION in the doorway, scattering anyone who remains

in the area of the dispensary doorway, badly wounding

Mehboub.

More people with sticks. Hasari goes down under    several

bodies. Max reaches Aloka, helps her up, sends    her toward

the clinic. He tears an attacker off of Hasari    and they

fight back to back a moment. A SECOND EXPLOSION    near

them... and through the smoke Max sees...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Ashoka astride his motorcycle, behind his dark glasses,

with more thugs, these with Molotov cocktails and pick-

axes, ready to raze the clinic and school and the

surrounding neighborhood.

Sunil drags Mehboub inside.

People chant: "White Monkeys, go home! White Monkeys,

go home! No lepers here! No lepers here!" The thugs

cock their iron bars and bricks and Molotov cocktails.

Max picks up an iron bar of his own and starts for

Ashoka. Suddenly, there's a DETONATION followed by a

BLAST of air so fierce, Max is thrown to the ground.

A bottle of GASOLINE has EXPLODED just behind him. He's

enveloped in smoke.

An assailant bears down on Joan with a cutlass. As the

assailant is about to strike, Hasari seizes the attacker

and hurls him backward. Ashish steps in and slashes the

assailant with his own weapon, startling, even repelling

Hasari.

From all over   the lane, young fighters have come and joined

the fray, not   bothering to choose sides but merely enjoying

the release.    Hasari lunges for a woman under attack by a

boy, arriving   too late to stop the boy from plunging his

knife into the   woman's belly. Hasari fights his way to

the woman, but   she staggers into the mob.

Max knocks down one of the thugs only to have  another hand

grasp his shoulder. He turns, fist cocked to   find Poomina,

her hands holding her face together. Slowly,   she takes

hands away. The sides of her face have been   laid open.

Max sweeps her up in his arms, heads for the  clinic.

Joan is suddenly beside Ashoka.

Ashoka raises a hand,   The Goonda blows a whistle, and

the fighting stops as   suddenly as it began. The com-

batants are breathing   heavily. There is silence but for

the groans and cries   of the wounded and grieving.

CONTINUED:

A beat... Saladdin is at Joan's shoulder.     Ashoka points

a finger at Hasari.

He REVS his MOTORCYCLE and SCREECHES away, leaving Hasari

staring after him in his dust.

INT. COURTYARD - DAY

People peer in through every opening. Mehboub's chest is

bandaged. Sunil squeezes through the packed courtyard

and hallway, Ashish carrying a wounded woman behind him.

Hasari steps into a doorway, us WITH him.

INT. EXAMINING ROOM - MAX, ALOKA, POOMINA

Max, blood crusted on her face, sutures Poomina's awful

facial wound as Aloka prepares a compress.

Poomina peers through her pain at Max, his hands putting

her back together.

Max looks at the doorway and he locks eyes with Hasari.

Max breaks the contact. Hasari stares at him as we hear

the godfather's MUSIC on the RADIO.

EXT. GODFATHER'S COURTYARD - HAND AND PENCIL - DAY

A hand tap, tap, taps against a ledger.

COURTYARD

Ashoka sits behind a little table, picking absently at

his face. The Goonda is slouched near the table, smoking

a cigarette and fiddling with a thin switch. (It's dif-

ficult for him to show Ashoka the respect his inherited

position gives him.) The Goonda has a bruise under one

eye from his altercation in the City of Joy yesterday.

The air is filled with the MUFFLED SOUNDS OF the STREET.

FROM here, we can see the evermore enfeebled godfather

in his "throne room," wrapped in a cashmere, listening

to the radio. Ashoka looks up, stares impassively at

someone.

ANOTHER ANGLE

For the first time, we see who Ashoka's speaking to.

Ashoka slams his hand on the register.

He stands up.       Hasari is near tears.

Hasari starts for the house. The Goonda stops him and,

quickly, has Hasari on his knees, his arm twisted pain-

fully behind his back. Ashoka jumps at Hasari, grabs

his ear.

CONTINUED:

He gives Hasari's ear a vicious twist and slams his head

against the table.

EXT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY

The side gate opens and Hasari is shoved   out. Stumbling,

he runs to the fence, peers through. Two    men are pulling

his rickshaw into the courtyard. Hasari    watches as a

steel shutter is pulled down, cutting his   livelihood from

sight.

ANGLE THROUGH BAR - HASARI

Numb, compromised, defeated.    Perhaps the low point of

his life.

INT. CLINIC - JOAN'S ROOM - "RAFT OF MEDUSA" - NIGHT

Flickering candlelight illuminates the "Raft of Medusa."

Max rails at Joan.

Out of breath, out of words, Joan reaches out and takes

Max to her, brings him beside her on the cot. Beneath

the "Raft of Medusa," she sits with an arm around Max, as

if he were her son.

CONTINUED:

The candlelight flickers against them as they sit side

by side. Neither speaks.

EXT. RAM'S HUT - TEA SHOP - NIGHT

At the tea shop, a group relive the day's events. The

children sleep. Aloka sits outside, worried about

Hasari.

Max comes out, meets Aloka's eyes and looks away.   She's

heard the conversation.

Hasari, drunk, comes down the slope.   Face to face with

Max.

Aloka's hand flies to her mouth. Hasari peers at Max

with his drunken gaze. It's a terrible moment for Max,

but...

CONTINUED:

Max takes away a step.   Stops.

Hasari stares at Max. On the roof, the children listen.

At the tea shop, the late-night talkers listen.

Max walks away, leaving Hasari desolate.   Aloka comes to

him.

The thought of using the dowry is yet another awful blow

to Hasari's hopes.

Ram joins them.

CONTINUED:

Hasari touches his friend and goes into:

INT. RAM'S HUT

Alone in his pain, he spots his tea caddy in which he

planted his seeds over a month ago. He bends over to

tenderly touch the growing shoot and water the earth.

He looks up and the three children are staring at him.

What will their father do now to keep them alive?

INT. BLOOD DISPENSARY - CLOSE ON HASARI'S ARM - DAY

The needle injected, Hasari's blood flowing into a

bottle.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Hasari seated on the stool, watching his blood leave his

body, his face again broken out in perspiration.

HIS POV - RAFIK

Waiting.

BACK TO SCENE - HASARI

His face immobile, his thoughts distant. The Attendant

starts to pull the needle out. Hasari stops his hand.

The Attendant shakes his head.

The Attendant looks at Rafik, who shrugs, nods... and

allows the blood to flow on out of Hasari's body.

EXT. BLOOD BANK - DAY

Barely ambulatory, Hasari starts down the street, but has

to stop, lean against a wall. Through his woozy haze, he

thinks he sees an apparition.

ANOTHER ANGLE

There, in the entrance to a building, is Gangooly.

Seeing a potential victim, he swoops in.

Gangooly looks at Hasari, recognizes him, and gives him

an amazing smile.

Gangooly starts to move, to position himself for a get-

away. Hasari blocks his egress, unsmiling.

Gangooly gives Hasari an appraising look for a moment,

then...

CONTINUED:

EXT. STREET - MOVING SHOT - DAY

Gangooly guiding Hasari onward.

That smile.

EXT. SKELETON WAREHOUSE (MITRA & CO. EXPORTERS) - JUDAS

DOOR - DAY

A forbidding face appears at the grill, stares out.

INT. SKELETON WAREHOUSE - DAY

Hasari and Gangooly enter. A repulsive smell almost

makes Hasari gag. Gangooly takes Hasari's arm and steers

him through the gloom. Hasari discovers the origin of

the smell.

A line of skeletons arranged along the walls. Tables

stacked with bones: skulls, spines, rib cages, hands

and feet. Each skeleton sports a label with a price in

U.S. dollars.

Crouched among the bones and packing crates are men work-

ing. Some smoke, some have masks over their faces. They

scrape and clean and decorticate. They skillfully

assemble their grisly creations, emotionless but like

artists.

POV - MANAGER'S OFFICE - DAY

THROUGH a dusty, glass, interior window, we see, almost

in mime, the manager examining Hasari.

INT. MANAGER'S OFFICE

With a smile, the manager produces some papers. Hasari

shakes his head, starts for the door. Gangooly stops

him.

Gangooly winks, peers at Hasari with a single eye, and

smiles.

INT./EXT. TAXI - ROAD TO AIRPORT - DAY

Heat haze on the road. As we FOCUS, we FIND Max, Joan,

Aloka, also with their thoughts. Joan gazes out the

window of the taxi. Max looks at the back of Joan's head

a moment, then looks at Aloka, who sits between them.

She deflects his eyes forward.

Max looks at Joan.   Looks out the window.

INT. AIRPORT - DEPARTURE AREA - WIDE SHOT - DAY

First we see joyous people greeting arriving passengers;

parents greet a young man returning from college abroad.

The way clears and we CLOSE IN ON Max, Joan, and Aloka, a

tiny island in this sea of people at the moment of their

parting. Max empties all the money out of his pockets.

He thrusts the money on Joan and Max offers his hand;

she goes through the hand to embrace Max. Then Max and

Aloka look at each other.

CONTINUED:

And now Max heads out the door.

INT. CAFETERIA - ALOKA AND JOAN - DAY

Sparsely populated.     They sit in isolation at a table

over a cup of tea.

Yet, they   remain another moment... then get up. Joan

puts her   arm around Aloka and they turn to go. The looks

on their   faces suggest they've come face to face with

something   startling.

ANGLE ON DOOR

Max.   Standing inside the departure doorway.

Their faces. And his with just a wistful version of his

old grin... and we --

FADE IN:

EXT. COMPOUND - DAY

Hasari returns.     Goes into Ram's hut.

INT. RAM'S HUT - DAY

He finds his family... and Max.     The two men stare at

each other.

CONTINUED:

Hasari holds his anger in; he moves to a mat and lies

down, his back to Max. But Max doesn't go.

That's it. Hasari lies with his back to Max. After some

moments of silence, Aloka indicates Max should go. And

he does. After another moment...

Hasari bolts up, a look of anger on his face we've never

seen.

The children, Aloka are frozen, she very close to tears.

Hasari lies back down, again turns his back on them.

EXT. LEPER COLONY (DAWN) - DAY

The small colony alive; a line of patients outside a door.

INT. ROOM - DAY

Max unwraps a bandage from a leper's partial limb. Looks

around for Aloka. She's not there. Said is acting as

his nurse. Points at his instruments.

Helpfully Said hands him the tweezers.

He demonstrates. Said fumbles through the instruments,

picking up the scissors by the ends.

EXT. LEPER COLONY - DAY

Max comes out with his last patient.   Anouar waits.

Anouar takes off down the lane and disappears quickly

into a little building, Max following.

INT. TANNERY - DAY

Max follows Anouar past bubbling cauldrons and heaps of

animal skins. The place stinks fiercely. Anouar and

Max exit into...

A SMALL YARD

Two young men (the two pullers Chomotkar and Ramatullah)

... and something covered with a tarp.

CONTINUED:

The pullers whip the tarp off. A battered rickshaw, the

springs poking out of the seat, the broken wheels lying

in the body, the finish scarred and gouged, one shaft

broken.

EXT. SQUARE - DAY

Max comes into the square. Aloka and Selima are pre-

paring meals. Manooj, Shambu, and three other boys

playing. Ram is trying to jolly Hasari, who's deep in

his own reverie. Max stands in front of Hasari.

A beat as Hasari fixes Max with an empty stare and the

family waits to see if Hasari will respond.

EXT. COURTYARD AND STORAGE SHED - CLINIC

The sound of a PADLOCK being UNLOCKED. DARK SCREEN.

Light flashes. Max and Hasari appear in the doorway.

Surprised by the light, a few rats scurry off. Some-

where a dog BARKS. Slated, shafted light. He indicates

a corner.

THE RICKSHAW

Piled up in its ruin.

Hasari looks at Max, part resentful, part touched.

CONTINUED:

Hasari starts to leave.    Max blocks his way.

Hasari can see the hope and desire in Max's face. After

a moment, Max steps aside. Hasari bends his head and

makes off. Leaving Max and a small sigh of

disappointment.

EXT. LATRINES - FOUNTAIN - ALOKA - DAY (DAWN)

She takes her morning absolutions, bathing in the foun-

tain. The process is extremely sensual, though there is

not even a glimpse of her nakedness as she moves her

clothing around, cleansing this area, then that. She

glances up to see...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Max, in an Indian shirt, heading for the square; rather

naturally, he brings his hands together in the Indian

salutation. He carries several bottles of distilled

water, a large value pack of bar soap, and a carton of

medical supplies. As he passes, his eyes hook on

Aloka's. He lifts a hand in greeting. After a moment,

she ducks her head. He turns and continues on coming

face to face with Ram, an enormous smile on his face.

With him, Hasari. He glances at his wife in the water.

CONTINUED:

When Hasari doesn't answer...

Ram has a small coughing fit.

He points at the wheel  of his rickshaw; the rim is

cracked. Scornfully,   Hasari walks on. Max and Ram

glance after him. Max   digs out several rupees. Ram

takes them and goes.   Max looks after the two men as

they disappear. When   he turns...

ANOTHER ANGLE

...he finds himself face to face with Aloka. Without a

word, they start walking side by side toward the square.

It's several seconds before she says...

They walk on in silence -- two friends, separated by a

gulf.

EXT. DOCKS - FROM THE GATE - DAY

Men moving like ants into the bow of the ship.   Hasari is

locked out, turned away without work.

EXT. METRO CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY

A huge gouge in the black mud, sunlight streaming through

steel girders across it. Hasari emerges from the ground,

looking for someone. Stops him. The foreman shakes his

head, no, before Hasari even has the chance to ask for

work.

EXT. SKELETON WAREHOUSE - EXTREME CLOSEUP - HASARI'S

FACE - DAY

Then we see he's standing outside Mitra & Co., staring at

it, wondering if it's time to sell part of himself. No!

We see on his face a look that tells us he will not be

beaten.

EXT. CLINIC - COURTYARD - DAY

The street children's school now takes up two rooms.

Children peer out of one room now as, to the accompani-

ment of Surya's zither, twenty or so girls are doing some

Indian classical dancing, under the eye of a young Indian

teacher.

Across the way, in the other room, some children are

translating Bengali words into English. A boy is writing

on the board. It's Manooj. We see that Shambu is in the

same class.

INT. EXAMINING ROOM

FROM BEHIND, we watch Max take a wrapping off of

Poomina's wound, Joan assisting him. Indeed, Ashoka

extended Poomina's smile on either side of her mouth.

The scars are healing as nicely as could be expected.

Max did a fine job.

A beat, Poomina nods.    But now a look of abject fear

comes over her face.

The Goonda stands in the doorway. Max begins singing

"Sweet Little Sixteen." The Goodna stares impassively

at Max.

Joan leaves, followed by The Goonda. Max works care-

fully at the fine line of scabbing on Poomina's scar...

but then something takes his attention.

ACROSS THE COURTYARD

Manooj, with a small tin of food, looks this way and

that... and then sneaks into the shed.

EXT. SHED - DAY

We hear a, TAP, TAP, TAP. The door is half open. The

padlock is hanging on its chain. Max opens the door.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

Startled, frightened, Hasari presses himself against the

wall, as does Manooj. Hasari is wearing a wet dhoti,

caught in the middle of straightening the wheel rim of

the old rickshaw.

Max is very surprised but, needless to say, pleased.      He

looks at the rickshaw, looks at Hasari.

Max quickly closes the door. The half light is broken

by thin beams of light that dance with dust.

Hasari studies Max a moment, then moves to put the first

wheel on. Instinctively, Manooj moves to his side, takes

hold of the rickshaw so Hasari can slip the wheel on.

Hasari nods and goes for the other wheel. Manooj moves

around to the other side, hefts the carcass. Hasari

slips on the second wheel. Hasari looks at Max. Max

brings his hands together and starts to go.

The two men look at each other... and then Hasari gets

on with his work.

Max brins his hands together and starts for the door.

Hasari picks up one of the worn seat boards.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

We're TRACKING WITH a moving bag of peanuts behind a row

of boy's heads. On the screen in front of them, a "medi-

eval era" sword battle between the great Kumar Kapur and

a legion of bad guys.

CONTINUED:

We hear the sound of CRACKING NUTS as we MOVE FROM Manooj

to three kids we've seen in the neighborhood (two boys

Manooj's age and Shoba, who's Shambu's age) and then to

Shambu, each kid dipping into the bag in his turn.

Finally: Max's (and on the other side of him, Amrita

and Poomina.) The bag arrives... empty.

No one. We're talking about rapt attention.   We hear

NUTS CRACKING. Max smiles.

EXT. STREET - NEAR CITY OF JOY - NIGHT

Max and the boys walking home after the movie, the boys

dancing around each other, acting out the fight sequences,

all of the sword-fighting against Max, who battles them

all over the street, in and around cars, Poomina and Amrita

looking on shyly, as El Max fights to save their honor.

Max stops the fight, takes Manooj by the shoulders.

As the battle continues, the bright beams of a truck

come at them.

CONTINUED:

The kids move toward the wall of the building they're

passing, but the truck seems to turn toward them, seem-

ing not to intend to pass, but to hit them.

The look on Max's face lets us know he senses something

terrible is in the offing here. He shouts for the kids

to get out of the way, shoving the kids closest to him

into a doorway. He turns to Shambu, who's behind him,

calls to him.

But in a panic, Shambu doesn't move into the shelter   of

the building on his right... but tries to run across   the

street. Max leaps for the little boy too late... as    the

truck just misses Max and clips Shambu hard, sending   the

little boy flying.

EXT. SQUARE - NIGHT

Manooj runs   ahead of everyone as he charges into Ram's

hut, crying   for his father. Behind Manooj come the

others, Max   carrying Shambu in his arms. Hasari and

Aloka, Ram,   Joan, others in the square hurtle out of

their huts.

EXT STREET - HASARI'S FEET - DAY (EARLY EVENING)

He pounds along,  the wheels wobbling and squeaking,

urging people out  of his way. Max runs alongside Hasari.

Aloka sits on the  seat with Shambu, whose quiet moaning

fills her ears.   Blood drips down the rickshaw.

EXT. PARK STREET - FROM THE RICKSHAW - DAY

Several taxis waiting for clients outside a row of

restaurants. Hasari and Aloka watch as Max argues with

the drivers. They won't take a bleeding passenger.

SAME STREET - MOMENTS LATER

The race to the hospital continues.

EXT. MEDWAR PINE MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - NIGHT

The arrive at the gates of the huge, Victorian hospital.

People sleep outside the gates.

INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - SIDE ROOM - DAY

The wards are full, as are the corridors. Patients on

beds and stretchers everywhere. Most have at least one

member of their family to look over them. In a side

room, Max is arguing with a porter who tells him he can't

help him.  Max slaps some rupees into the porter's hand,

tells him to take him to the person in charge.

Shambu is fading. Aloka smooths the sweat from his brow,

trying to keep Shambu alive by force of will and love.

Then Max is back, standing over her with another man. It

may take a moment before we recognize the ATTENDANT from

the Blood Bank.

Aloka holds out a fistful of rupees. The Attendant blows

through his lips, indicating it's a paltry sum. Max

grabs the money and shoves it at the Attendant.

The Attendant doesn't move... until he sees Max is about

to explode.

The Attendant is smart enough not to push any further.

CONTINUED:

As Max takes flight with the Attendant, Aloka strokes

Shambu and Hasari hovers. We CLOSE IN ON Shambu's

inanimate face and HOLD a moment.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Max hurtles down the corridor with a young INTERN in

tow. Almost a kid, he's been up for days. But he's

going to help.

Max scoops Shambu up and rushes down the corridor behind

the Intern, leaving Hasari and Aloka looking after him.

His arm comes around her shoulders.

EXT. HOSPTIAL - DAY (DAWN)

Hasari and Aloka wait.   People are starting to move about.

Max comes out of the hospital.   The two Pals stare at

him.

He smiles, holds out a palm for them to slap. They

look at the palm, unsure what this means. Yet, each

takes Max's hand.

EXT. CLINIC - COURTYARD - DAY

The whole community is here, around the tree.

CONTINUED:

INT. SHED - CLOSE ON TWO PAINTBRUSHES - NIGHT

dip into a little box of paints. The boys look on as the

two men paint an intricate design on the shafts. Shambu

sits in the rickshaw seat. He wears an ankle to hip

cast. Manooj is spelling words and urging Shambu to

follow suit. Aloka is putting out a tray of food. Ram,

Ramatullah, and Chomotkar slip in, quickly close the

door. The two pullers focus on the rickshaw, Ram on Max.

Ram thrusts an envelope into Max's hand.

Ram nods nervously. Max looks at the postmark as he

slices it open with a finger.

CONTINUED:

Ram waits, his hands twisting each other.

Manooj throws his hand up.

He snatches the letter, crushes it to his heart.   Notices

the finish work on the rickshaw.

This gets everyone's attention.    The pullers shake their

heads, they're worried for him.

CONTINUED:

A beat... and Hasari gives him a small nod.

EXT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Ghatak is literally carried out of the house by an

orderly and placed into his car. There's a driver

and there is the Goonda. They start down the street.

We're WITH the car. Suddenly, the driver slams on the

brakes and from:

ANOTHER ANGLE

We see Hasari and Max blocking the street with the new

rickshaw. The Goonda jumps out of the car, comes

threateningly at Hasari.

As the Goonda is about to land on Hasari we hear a

feeble...

The Goonda backs off. The Godfather waves Hasari and

Max close. Hasari brings his gleaming rickshaw to the

window of the car, Max at his shoulder.

CONTINUED:

The Godfather stares at Hasari, flicks his eyes at Max.

Waits.

The old man looks at the rickshaw, at the obvious care

that went into its renovation, at this unlikely team

of refurbishers. He reaches a shaking  hand out toward

a shaft. Hasari brings it close. The   old man rubs the

shaft.

The Godfather stares at Hasari, then at Max.

The Goonda gets back into the car and the car pulls away

and we are left with Hasari and Max as moment.

EXT. SKELETON WAREHOUSE (MITRA & CO) - DAY

Hasari enters.

INT. MANAGER'S OFFICE - DAY

The manager stares at Hasari, as he consumes a pot of

rice and vegetable curry. Gangooly hovers like a crow.

Hasari stares at the contract before him.

CONTINUED:

The manager turns his palms up, continues chewing.

Hasari stares through the window at the row of skeletons.

Hasari bends to the contract and laboriously signs his

name.

EXT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Hasari arrives to an outcry of anger. There are several

dozen rickshaws. Among the passersby, we see umbrellas,

as the people on the street try to combat the incredible

heat.

Ashoka is on his front steps with a loudspeaker before a

growing crowd of pullers. He's backed up by the Goonda

and a dozen of his thugs. The loudspeaker lifts

Ashoka's voice above the anger.

Impulsively, Hasari moves forward. Cries from pullers:

"Who will be the victims of this madness? You?" "Hell

no!" "You don't need the six rupees each old crate

brings you per day to fill your belly! For us, it means

death!" The street is so packed with rickshaw and

pullers now that cars can't get through. A chorus

of HORNS HONK; drivers scream.

CONTINUED:

Hasari continues forward, his eyes on Ashoka.

RASSOUL steps up on a telagarhi with a loudspeaker.

A strike? No income at all? The slogan is taken up

by a small percentage of the assemblage. Fear and

doubt on many faces.

ON HASARI

Something detonates in him and he jumps onto the tela-

garhi and grabs the microphone from Ashoka. Police

arrive in vans.

A signal from Ashoka and one of the thugs knocks Hasari

down.

CONTINUED:

Hasari gets up and tries to speak.

He gets hit again. A number of the pullers come forward

and a riot starts. The police move in, beat and arrest

many of the demonstrators. Ramatullah and Chomotkar

try to help Hasari, but they are descended on by cops

who hurl them aside and beat Hasari senseless until

the:

FADE IN:

INT. BONSAL COURT - DAY

Birds flying  below ceiling. The room has a barred cage

running all  around its edge; the cage is filled to near

overflowing.   Hasari stands before the JUDGE, his face

covered with  blood, his body a mass of aches and welts.

At the back  of the room, Max and Aloka; elsewhere,

Ashoka, the  Goonda, and several of his thugs.

Ramatullah starts to applaud.   Rassoul follows suit.

The Judge bangs his gavel.

CONTINUED:

Cheers from the pullers.   The Judge bangs his gavel.

Seven days in jail will cost him far more than fifty

rupees. As he reaches into his pocket for his screw

of money, a hand suddenly protrudes into the cage through

the bars.

And now another hand with several rupees reaches through.

Now a dozen voices call his name and a  dozen hands reach

through the bars with rupees clutched  in their fists and

press the money into Hasari's hands.   The Judge, Max and

Aloka, and certainly Ashoka watch this  in amazement. The

Judge bangs his gavel.

Max turns, shoots a little finger gun and winks at Ashoka.

CLOSE ON ASHOKA

ON his face, we see pure hatred for these two men.

EXT. CITY OF JOY - DAY

Amrita, Manooj, and Shambu. With them, Subash flirting

with Amrita, incurring the wrath and admiration of her

brothers, causing her to flush.

THUNDER sounds. They all look up. Rain starts to fall.

People run outside of workshops and huts, crying, "The

rains, the rains." Suddenly, a THUNDERCLAP shakes the

earth and rain begins to bombard them. The rain falls,

the WIND HOWLS, and people in the lane are dancing,

praising the beginning of the monsoon season. Men tear

off their shirts, women rush out fully clothed, singing.

Swarms of naked children run about. The kids run toward

the clinic/school.

EXT. CLINIC COURTYARD - DAY

Hasari is locking his rickshaw into the shed. Staff and

several patients come out of the examining rooms -- Joan,

Aloka, Sunil, Anouar, Poomina. Margareta and her

students, a new teacher, Bandona, her students come out of

the classrooms... They're all swept up in dancing, Joan's

metal cross jumping about as if it were beating out time.

From his balcony, Max emerges with his trumpet and plays

the first bars of "Singin' In the Rain." Everyone looks

his way; he begins to hum and sing as he jumps over the

balcony to the ground and takes off in a wild, impro-

vished, but damn good version of Gene Kelly's dance in

the rain, bringing Anouar on his cart in as his dancing

partner. Everyone in the courtyard crowds around them,

laughing and encouraging the dancer/singers on. The

number builds to an extraordinary climax with Max sliding

through mud to an exquisite finish at Joan's feet.

There's thunderous applause.

INT. CLINIC - NIGHT

Rain. Max, The Pals, Ram, Joan, Anouar, Meeta and the

Baby, Poomina, Saladdin, Mehboub, Ashish, Shanta,

Margareta, Bandona, and the other members of the commit-

tee sharing a meal.

Amrita whacks Manooj.

CONTINUED:

The look in Amrita's eyes tells us indeed there is.

Hasari smiles at Amrita and then at Aloka.

Amrita squeezes close to her mother.   This is serious

and joyous.

The laugh. But Hasari's attention is on his daughter.

He reaches a loving hand to her.

INT. GREEN ACRES - MAX'S BATHROOM - TUB FAUCET - NIGHT

A rag has been wrapped around the faucet and water runs

slowly and silently down into the nearly filled tub. The

scene is illuminated dimly by a flashlight with fingers

over the beam.

ON MAX

He sleeps. Suddenly he's grabbed, his eyes spring open

in fear. Hands yanks him out of bed, slam him up against

the wall, then hurtle him across the room and into:

BATHROOM

Where the tub has been filled. His head is slammed down

underwater and he's held there struggling.

CONTINUED:

His head is yanked up and through bleary eyes he sees a

knife at his throat and the Hewbrew letter chai dangling

from the knife - wielder's neck, illuminated by a

flashlight.

Before he can respond, he's slammed down into the tub of

water again and held there until it seems his lungs will

explode. Then he's dumped backward, gasping for breath.

EXT. CITY OF JOY - SQUARE - NIGHT

Max on the run through the rain, carrying his belongings.

CLINIC

He pounds through the puddles, past a sleepy old watchman,

and through the gate.

INT. COURTYARD - NIGHT

He bangs on Joan's door. She opens the door in her Indian

pajamas. One look at him...

A beat. She steps aside, he steps in, and the door closes

him safely inside.

EXT. PARK CIRCUS - DAY

The rickshaw station. The  rain pours down. People

clambor for rickshaws. The  line moves forward as fast

as the pullers can take on passengers. Hasari, Ram,

Ramatullah, Chomotkar look at the stalled buses, the

streetcars, the taxis, the private cars.

CONTINUED:

Hasari glances at Ram, who isn't a part of the joking.

Chomotkar touches Hasari, nods across the street.   There,

we see the Goonda and two thugs.

It's Hasari's turn.   He can't stay to talk with Ram now.

He has to go.

Several others crowd and shove toward him.

The Marwari hesitates only as long as it takes him to dig

in his soaking wet pants and to slap the bills into

Hasari's hand and climb aboard. Hasari sets out with

great difficulty -- and greater determination -- through

the floodwaters, flicking his eyes at the Goonda as he

goes.

EXT. WEDDING SHOP - DAY

Water  pours down. FROM HERE we see Hasari inside, putting

money  down in front of the shop owner and then hustling

back  into the rain and taking up his shafts. We WATCH the

owner  look after him with a touch of disdain as he comes

into  the window and takes down the beautiful green and

gold  sari.

EXT. CLINIC - GUTTERS - NIGHT

Water pouring from above; the gutters overflow with refuse.

We PAN UP to the clinic.

INT. CLINIC COURTYARD

Water pouring off the room into the courtyard. Hasari

locks his rickshaw into the shed and turns out, attention

to Max, Aloka, Joan, Poomina, Margareta, Mehboub, several

others trying to patch leaking roof tiles and keep

supplies high and dry.

INT. CLINIC ROOM

Hasari enters. Max looks at him, doesn't like the look

of the obviously exhausted man.

EXT. CIRCULAR ROAD - FISTFUL OF RUPEES (RUNNING MONTAGE)

- DAY

An Anglo couple jockeying for preference. Hasari selects

them from a crowd. This is the beginning of RUNNING

MONTAGE.

A)   He runs AT us from different directions with riders

B)   He drags up with an entire, well-to-do family of six,

C)   He stumbles to a stop outside the emergency entrance

CONTINUED:

D)   An upper-crust Brahmin dressed in crisp white, an

E)   Four uniformed school children huddled, laughing

INT. LEPER COLONY - MEETA'S ROOM - DAY

The rain continues, as does the work in the clinic. Max

is working on Anouar, Aloka assisting. Meeta and the

baby (now 6 months old) in the b.g.

Aloka ducks her eyes, embarrassed.

Max lifts Anouar off the table and places him on his

cart.

Anouar scoots out. Max and Aloka both turn to the

instruments lying on the table and knock a pair of

scissors to the floor. Simultaneously, they bend to pick

it up and bang heads.

LOW ANGLE

The first   impulse of each is to touch the other's head.

But almost   simultaneously, their hands freeze short of

touching.    Several months ago, Max might have tried to

kiss her;   now, though, there is friendship and affection.

FROM here,   we see a pair of bare feet. We COME WITH Max

and Aloka   UP.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Shoba, a deeply concerned look on his face. Slowly his

hands come forward, holding his parrot, with a broken

wing. He puts the parrot on the examining table.

INT. POST OFFICE - DAY

Hasari seals a letter and a money order into an envelope,

seals, and puts it into the slot. He is  clearly

exhausted. Outside he can  see two Sikh merchants at his

rickshaw, looking around in the rain for him. He hurries

toward the door.

INT. SUBASH'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Aloka and three women huddled beside a window, Amrita

half hidden behind them. We PAN ACROSS a staircase TO

another window, THROUGH which we see a doorway. In the

doorway, Subash turns to smile a shy smile at Amrita; he

shrugs. PAST him now, we see Hasari facing SUBASH'S

FATHER and three UNCLES, surly men with hair matted with

mustard oil. The Ghoshes are all seated on low chairs

and stools. Hasari is standing.

INT. ROOM - NIGHT

Mr. Ghosh and the Uncles stare at Hasari, who stands

politely and hopefully before them.

He looks at his brothers, on either side.    They look at

him.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Ghosh raises his palms.    It's all over as far as

he's concerned.

The brothers huddle, whisper just loudly enough for

Hasari to hear.

Mr. Ghosh shakes his head, shrugs his palms.

Mr. Ghosh shrugs.    The huddle breaks.   All five men

stare at Hasari.

EXT. STREETS - DAY

Hasari, mouth half open, flecked with spume, pulls a

huge Marwari. He's pouring sweat, his eyes are blood-

shot. He has never looked more like a horse.

They arrive at a cross street. The Marwari gets down

and pays Hasari. Hasari slumps against the rickshaw

and, while he awaits his next rider, counts his crum-

pled pile of notes and coins.

EXT. CLINIC - DAY

Max, Joan, Aristotle John, Margareta, Mehboub, perhaps

a dozen others trying to raise the level of the low

wall at the entrance with bricks. The wall caves in.

Other people in the neighborhood rush to rebuild it.

CONTINUED:

Thinking he's about to make some cogent remark about

this unified effort...

Joan begins to laugh; the others don't get it, query

each other as to what's funny about that.

She whacks him on the shoulder with a wet, muddy paw.

Everyone turns to...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Manubai and Ravi, their car parked at the entryway to

the clinic. A big puddle separates them.

He sloshes through the water to them, wiping his muddy

hands on his pants. He offers a semi-clean hand to

each in turn.

CONTINUED:

She indicates the car, which is packed with dry food

and such.

Max whistles, indicates the car. People come and start

unloading it, Ravi showing the way, leaving Max and

Manubai alone a moment, Aloka flicking her eyes at the

two of them.

He smiles a sweet smile at her.    She smiles back at him.

EXT. MUD BANK - WIDE SHOT - DAY

Anouar on Said's shoulders. The big mute runs, followed

by Hasari and a phalanx of rickshaw pullers: Chomotkar,

Rassoul, Ramatullah-Joan, Aloka, Manooj, several others

in the rickshaws, Max and Sunil, each with his doctor bag

-- all of them running in silhouette along the embankment

in the rain.

EXT. LEPER COLONY - DAY

The leper colony is submerged. The parents have put

their children on the roofs and the relatively able-

bodied lepers are piling charpoys one on top of another

to protect the sick and the infirm. Meeta and her baby

are on a roof. The mud bank is too slippery to get the

rickshaws down and back up.

CONTINUED:

A beat.

EXT. LEPER COLONY - PAIR MUDDY, PARTIAL HANDS - SAME

DAY - SOME MINUTES LATER

A leper clings to a rope as several of the human horses

pull him and others up the mud bank.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Max, Hasari, Rassoul, and Chomotkar up to their necks

in water; Hasari and Rassoul have a door on their

shoulders; on top of the door, a sick leper woman.

Max is lifting one child, then another onto the door.

The two pullers make their way slowly toward the mud

bank.

ON MUD BANK

Aloka, Joan, helping lepers into rickshaw.

ON MEETA AND BABY

The hut starts to come apart under them. Max and

Chomotkar quickly move to the house with another door.

Chomotkar holds the door up as Meeta holds the baby

out in the direction of Max's voice. Max catches the

baby as the house slips down, then grabs Meeta, who

clings to him.

EXT. MUD BANK - DAY

Hasari pulling the lead rickshaw. Anouar on Max's

shoulders, the two of them leading a terrible ensemble

version of "Hound Dog." An air of festivity among

lepers and rescuers.

They come to a bridge made of two planks over rushing

water.

CONTINUED:

Several rickshaws go across but as Max and Anouar start

over, suddenly the ground gives way beneath Max's feet.

Anouar falls free; someone grabs him; but a blackish

stream rushes into Max's mouth and in an instant he's

swept beneath the gurgling filth. The density of the

filth makes his effort to surface ineffective. It

looks for all the world like he's going to drown.

ON OTHERS

Max has disappeared. Instinctively, Hasari dives into

the maelstrom. He, too, disappears. After some moments,

Hasari surfaces, spitting the filth out of his mouth.

He dives again, comes up somewhere else. Dives a third

time. Is down. Is down. Is down. Then suddenly

bursts out of the filth, dragging the unconscious form

of Max Loeb into the air. More people have gathered.

Cries of:

Aloka passes a baby to someone and helps Hasari push

Max up onto the bank. But now Hasari doesn't know

what to do and turns to his wife.

Aloka quickly clears Max's mouth and begins to admin-

ister mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. She blows, she

breathes; she blows, she breathes. People crowd in.

Aloka blows, she breathes. It seems, though, that by

his stillness and by the looks on people's faces that

Max is dead. Yet, more determined still, Aloka goes

on; blows, breathes...

CLOSE ON ALOKA AND MAX

And now Max gags,  his body erupts in spasm, and he

explodes a stream  of black liquid out of his lungs.

Aloka supports his  forehead as Max retches again and

then comes still.   A beat.

INT. CLASSROOM - NIGHT

We PAN ACROSS members of our group -- lepers and

normals -- passing bowls of rice in a simple communal

meal, Singing a religious song quietly. On the floor

in the b.g., Anouar is writing something on a slightly

damp stretch of cloth with a child's crayon. Said

takes the cloth and tacks it to the wall. What Anouar

has written is this, "All that is not given is lost."

Everyone in the room stares at the words.

INT. CLINIC - MAX'S ROOM - NIGHT

Max opens his eyes to find Joan, Hasari, Aloka, and the

children keeping a vigil.

He tries to get up.   Joan pushes him back down.

He is a little delirious. The boys come close, kneel

at his side, instinctively reach out to him.

Hasari reaches out and touches Max, telling him with a

touch that it's all right. He stares up through bleary

eyes at all of them with utterly open love. Amrita

holds out a small gift to him: It's a banana leaf,

holding a small scoop of rice and surrounded by little

decorative leaves.

EXT. RAM'S HUT - TWO MONTHS LATER - DAY

A group gathered on a dry, sunny afternoon, peering into

the hut. We FOCUS on the growing flower in the tea

caddy in the window and then go THROUGH the window into:

INT. PALS' ROOM - DAY

Hasari, Max (dressed quite India), the local Hara Giri,

Mr. Ghosh and the four Ghosh uncles crammed into the

tiny room. Members of our group jam the doorway,

spectating. The air is close.

Mr. Ghosh lights up a bidi, looks at his brothers,

wrinkles his brows at Hasari.

We linger on Shambu a moment.

INT. ST. PIUS SCHOOL - HEADMISTRESSES' OFFICE - DAY

Sister Cecilia, in full habit, looks over a sheaf of

test scores.

Then she peers up at...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Manooj, seated between Hasari and Max.

CONTINUED:

Hasari can't believe his ears.   Manooj sits frozen.   Max

grins.

EXT. NARROW LANE - NEAR CITY OF JOY - DAY

Amrita, Subash, and Shambu heading home from the work-

shop. Shambu's cast is gone. Subash flirts with

Amrita. They see Hasari, Max, and Manooj coming toward

them. Manooj runs to them, shouting that he's going to

the school; Amrita, Subash, Shambu congratulate him...

HASARI AND MAX

Suddenly the rickshaw wheels jam. They turn to find

two men, one of whom has slammed a stick into Hasari's

spokes. Retribution, it would seem, has arrived.

The kids stop, huddle instinctively together in fear.

Our policeman disappears into a doorway as shutters

close up and down this little street. There are thugs

at both ends. No one else is visible on the street.

The two men stare at Hasari a moment, smiling. Then

one gets into the rickshaw, crosses his legs as if he

might want transport. But now he whips out a narrow

bladed knife, and still staring at Hasari, begins to

slice up the newly covered seats of the rickshaw. Max

looks around, trying to cool things.

They turn, Ashoka.   Behind him, the Goonda.

CONTINUED:

He takes no more than a step at Ashoka, a hand coming up,

when he's hit hard from behind. Goes to his knees.

His hand comes away from the back of his head with blood.

He tries to rise and is hit again.

Ashoka glides toward the petrified Amrita. The Goonda

remains unmoving, watchful. Ashoka puts out his hand

with its rings, and strokes Amrita's cheek.

Hasari glances over his shoulder, his eyes bouncing off

the Goonda's impassive face. Now, the knife comes out of

Ashoka's pocket, snaps open, glints in the light.

CONTINUED:

There's a moment of unbearable tension as everyone, in-

cluding the Goonda, realizes this man is out of control.

The Goonda stares at Ashoka... And now Ashoka reaches out

and we FOLLOW CLOSE on his hand as it moves ever so

slowly through space to settle on Amrita's breast.

And now Hasari explodes. He hits Ashoka. A hard punch

to the chest. Ashoka stumbles and falls to one knee.

The Two Thugs make    a move to come to his rescue... but a

curious thing stops    them: the Goonda's arm, outstretched

across their path,    his eyes alerting them not to proceed.

Max lurches to his    feet unsteadily.

Hasari unloads a punch into Ashoka's face; Ashoka's nose

pours blood; he starts to whimper. He clutches Hasari

hard to him. Holds him. Hasari struggles, slams his

palm into Ashoka's chin, sending Ashoka to the ground,

sending the knife skidding across the ground. Hasari

grabs the knife, straddles Ashoka, about to kill. But he

can't do it.

Hasari backs off, leans against a wall, stares down at

Ashoka, his hands in tight against his body.

Manooj and Shambu stare at their father in awe.

Shambu sees something on the ground where the first blow

was delivered to Ashoka's chest. Everyone has moved

slightly to one side. He bends and closes his fist

around something.

The Goonda steps between Ashoka and Max and Hasari.

A look from the Goonda and the Thugs vanish, leaving

Ashoka cowering in a doorway on his knees.

CONTINUED:

Shutters start to open, people begin   to appear again in

doorways and windows.

Fearing for his life, Ashoka suddenly   bolts.

Max is fixed on Hasari. He lets up a    scream of exulta-

tion, his hand going out for a "five"   from Hasari. The

kids charge toward Hasari.

Then everyone freezes.

Hasari lists to his right side and blood starts to pour

from the knife wound in his abdomen under his pressing

arm.

EXT. MAX'S ROOM - UPSTAIRS BALCONY - NIGHT

From here we can see Hasari on Max's cot under "The Raft

of the Medusa" in the little room overlooking the street.

Out here, the two doctors are alone.

Sunil nods. Max grips Sunil's hand strongly. Sunil goes

down the steps. Max moves to Hasari's bedside. He

watches Hasari breathing. He looks up at "The Raft of

the Medusa."

INT. MAX'S ROOM - NIGHT (SEVERAL HOURS LATER)

A thin stream of dawn light coming through the half-

closed shutters.

FROM HERE - THE BALCONY

Through the open door, we can just see Joan, praying

quietly. Close around her, Anouar, Meeta, Surya, Marga-

reta, Poomina...

THE ROOM

Beneath "The Raft of the Medusa," Hasari Pal speaks to

his family and Max, Aloka sitting close to the bed, the

Children on the bed beside their father, and Max standing

close.

CONTINUED:

A beat, the family and Max tightly bound together.   And

now we hear the dim sounds of RICKSHAW BELLS.

Max opens the windows.   Manooj helps his father sit up.

COURTYARD - THEIR POV

Outside, there are rickshaw pullers filling the courtyard

and spilling out into the street. When the window opens,

all the Pullers start ringing their bells and the room is

full of their music.

Unquestionably, they are.

He smiles.

OUTSIDE

The many hands with their ringing bells.

CLOSE ON WINDOW

The tiny figure of Shambu joins Max in the window.   Max

bends close.

CONTINUED:

Max makes the same sound he made in the ashram at the

beginning of the movie, though this sound of dismissal

different.

INT. RAM'S HUT - HASARI'S FACE - DAY

Hasari mirrors Max's expression of dismissal!

OUTSIDE THE HUT

Everyone crowded around the door. From within, we DIMLY

HEAR the negotiations continue. Max approaches from the

clinic. Shambu slips down the steps from above as...

CONTINUED:

Shambu takes him by the hand and tugs him quickly to the

edge of the tea shop. The little boy indicates Max

should bend close. Max leans down.

Max nods.    And Shambu brings his fist up from under the

table.

CLOSE ON SHAMBU'S HAND

He opens his hand to disclose what he scooped off the

ground during the fight: Max's necklace and Hebrew

letter.

MAX AND SHAMBU

Max stares at the little boy's hopeful face.

INT. PAL'S ROOM - FLOWER

We see the fully blossomed flower in the tea caddy and

then Hasari's fingers come INTO THE FRAME. He carefully

snips the flower free of its stalk.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Amrita is dressed in the beautiful sari her father bought

her. Father and daughter are alone. He hands her the

flower and adjusts her veil tenderly.

CONTINUED:

Amrita stares at her loving father and slowly her arms

come up around his neck, the flower against his curved

back. Tears fill Hasari's eyes, but a smile graces his

lips.

EXT. SQUARE - DAY - EARLY EVENING

The procession to the courtyard begins when a BRASS BAND

strikes up, accompanied by singing and shouting. Tiny

lights have been strung over the street. We see Max and

Manubai. Margareta and a group of children. Joan with

Poomina. Anour, Meeta, Said. Everyone who's become part

of the family is present.

EXT. CLINIC COURTYARD - DAY (DUSK)

The procession arrives and enters. Smoke from the chu-

las. Light from a half dozen lamps.

Subash and his procession make their entrance. A ritual

veil is fixed to Subash's face. The Pujari waves for

Hasari to come to his place. Hasari turns to Max.

Deeply touched, Max nods... and the two men step for-

ward... as Subash is motioned forward by the Pujari.

Subash sits beside Amrita.

THE CEREMONY

A flame. The    shyness of bride and groom as the ceremony

proceeds with   the winding of the red thread. Hasari

looks on with   unspeakable pride, Max beside him. We see

the faces of   all our family again: Aloka, Manooj and

Shambu, Joan,   Poomina, Surya, Selima, Aristotle John,

etc.

THE WHEEL

Turning. As Amrita and Subash, joined by the thread,

circle the flame... as we PULL BACK AND UP. Now we see

the clinic and school and the surrounding area, the

alleys full of people and activity. As we continue to

PULL BACK, we see the entirety of the City of Joy and

then beyond -- Calcutta, its teeming streets -- life con-

tinuing as the sun sets against an infinite sky and we

ROLL END CREDITS.

