Stump straining to see the road, a bit wary of this drive.

First drops of rain begin hitting the windshield --

Stump hits the wiper button and the floppy blades

begin ineffectively wiping the windshield. Stump

struggles with his vision.

POV SHOT THROUGH WINDSHIELD

A dismal, wet and obscured view of the mountain road,

climbing higher into the Sierras. A small roadside gas

station comes INTO VIEW, and --

Stump pulls his car into the station.

Stump gets out, blows on his hands. It's cold, and a

man comes out, the gas station owner, JONAH, 55. The

man services the car throughout the conversation.

Stump heads to a pay phone as the attendant replaces the

wiper blades. Stump's breath hangs heavy in the air.

It's cold. Freezing. He drops a set of coins in the

call box. He blows on his hands and pulls up his collar

-- he wasn't prepared for the weather to be this cold.

He comes to life when he hears a voice on the other

end -- a voice we never hear.

We hear a CLICK.

He flicks the receiver hook several times.       She's gone.

RAIN POUNDS down as the car climbs to higher elevation.

Stump struggles with a map under the dome light as he

drives.

EXT. SNOW COVERED MOUNTAIN PASS - HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Stump's car passes a sign that tells all:    DONNER PASS.

which pulls off the road and heads up a small mountain

road among snow-covered pines.

A row of mailboxes catches Stump's attention, and he

pulls over to review the names with a flashlight. He

lights his way across the names of a dozen boxes --

nothing, until:

The last box, enormously oversized, bears the name "COBB."

CLOSE ON STUMP

He smiles.    Perfect.

BACK TO SCENE

His car heads up a mountain road a final hundred yards,

comes around a bend in the trees and there it is --

In the grand style but, like the mailbox, grotesquely

oversized.

Stump parks and approaches somewhat warily.

The sound of BREAKING GLASS and SHOUTING voices.

Stump hurries to the door to escape the rain and finds

refuge under the eave. The noise is frightening from

that close. He stands unsurely -- does he knock?

When --

The door is thrown open -- a black man, WILLIE, 40, with

a suitcase stands wildly upset, screaming back into the

house.

The man whirls and is shocked to see Stump standing

there with his own suitcase.

Willie bursts out into crazed laughter, as if the world

of Cobb was finally too absurd. Cobb and a writer? In

this weather? In any weather? And the man walks through

the rain, laughing, heading on foot down off the mountain

as Stump just stares.

Stump turns and steps into the open doorway.

Stump in the front door -- The place is enormous and

barely lit. Taxidermied game hangs on the wall.

Stump is terrified.

A MAN is sitting in an overstuffed chair reading a news-

paper. Dressed in a business suit and tie, he seems

oblivious to the surrounding chaos. He also seems out of

place.

The man looks at Stump and points upstairs without

speaking.

More CRASHING sounds from upstairs.

The silence is shattered by a SCRATCH, then VIOLIN MUSIC

from upstairs. STATIC suggests a record is playing.

Stump climbs the stairs with caution -- Until he's just

outside the half open door from which light spills. He

hesitates...

A GUNSHOT RINGS OUT -- Ripping through the door.       Stump

is terrified -- he gasps for air.

Stump turns and creeps back toward the stairs, but --

ANOTHER GUNSHOT RINGS OUT -- SHATTERING a hanging LAMP.

Stump freeses one more time.     Silence.   Then the

voice --

Stump breathes deeply and steps into the doorway -- He

does it as if there's no choice, accepting his fate. And

sees:

Lying in bed in a robe. Unshaven. Bottles of booze and

food everywhere. And bottles of pills sit on every

surface. Two hunting dogs sit on the bed with him.

A small record player sits next to he bed. A record

spins, filling the room with FRITZ KREISLER VIOLIN SOLOS.

He places the gun on      his night table, knocking pills and

bottles to the floor      with a crash he barely notices.

When he speaks it is      without a snarl, without threat --

simply, even sweetly,      he says:

BACK TO SCENE

Stump retrieves some pills that Cobb is pointing towards.

Cobb washes down a handful of pills with a bottle of

Scotch. Momentarily revitalized, Cobb hands Stump a

folded letter which Stump opens to read.

Cobb climbs slowly out of bed.     His words are reasoned

and not without passion.

Cobb hobbles to a table in front of a window. The

table is covered with pills, bottles, needles, and

booze.

Cobb grabs another bottle of booze and swigs deeply,

liquor spilling over him. Then, suddenly, he holds up

his hand. A calm comes over him as --

He stares out the window into the snowy woods.       His

rage has quickly turned into a quiet, intense,

unsettling focus.

near the lodge. A bank of snow -- and a large buck

moves INTO VIEW.

His eyes light.     A flare in his nostrils.    A twitch.     And

utter calm.

BACK TO SCENE

Jameson, the man in the suit, arrives and stands in

the back of the room. He takes notes when Cobb speaks.

Cobb continues staring out the window at the buck.

Cobb picks up the revolver and holds it lovingly.

Stump crosses and stands behind Cobb, sharing the view.

Cobb smiles and loads the revolver.       He pushes the window

which swings slowly open.

searches for leaves to eat in the snow.          Serene.   Unaware.

BACK TO SCENE

raises the gun -- he wobbles badly and steadies himself.

The gun shakes. Then steadies.

Stump stands over his shoulder watching the bizarre

action.

Just as...

KABLAM!   The REVOLVER FIRES with a violent kick.

The buck spins and runs back into the woods, kicking

snow and disappearing in the brush.

Cobb stumbles back into bed, somewhat exhausted by the

ordeal.

And Jameson exits the room.

Cobb reaches over and defiantly turns UP the MUSIC so

that the room is overwhelmed with Kreisler's violin.

Stump stares back at this decrepit, overpowering figure.

Cobb gradually slips into sleep, buried in the music,

the booze, the pills, the pain...

Silence.

The morning mist hangs thick over a snowbank in the woods.

A rabbit scurries across the snow, some quail are flushed.

PAN ACROSS the landscape REVEALS the lodge.    Smoke curls

from the chimney.

Stump sits hunkered over a tiny portable typewriter on

the kitchen table. Cobb mixes a bourbon with orange

juice to wash down some more pills, which he takes

randomly.

A teletype MACHINE sits on a table nearby -- Throughout

the scene, a tape CLICKS endlessly out, piling on the

floor. Cobb occasionally checks data on the tape.

Stump types it out, then stops.

BLAM! A SHOT RINGS OUT -- Stump types quickly, hunting

and pecking with two fingers, reading aloud.

Cobb checks the tape and suddenly is deep in thought

over some information coming across. Stump types.

Cobb grabs a phone and dials -- Then barks into the

phone.

Cobb slams down the phone, momentarily lost in finance.

Cobb just stares back in disdain.      Then, suddenly --

Cobb starts coughing terribly. He clutches his torso

as if it were about to fall into pieces.

Cobb grabs a bottle of Digoxin pills and flings it across

the room in a rage. He flings bottles of pills as he

recites his ailments.

Cobb grabs a hypodermic needle and awkwardly pours from

a bottle into the chamber. Insulin spills as he does.

He jams the needle wildly into his arm without hesitation.

He takes a deep breath as if the drug has produced an

immediate relief from pain.

The PHONE RINGS.

Stump answers the phone.

Stump covers the receiver nervously.

Cobb looks at Stump with a fierceness that is so over-

whelming, so physical, that Stump melts.

Stump is terrified.    He reluctantly uncovers the

receiver.

CLICK, a hang up.

Cobb settles into a chair, letting the drugs and pills

and booze work their way into his thick body.

Cobb rubs his head -- The drugs are taking effect.

And Cobb drifts to sleep in his chair, momentarily

overcome with painkillers.

Stump stares at the sleeping volcano of a man, and

when Cobb starts snoring heavily, he rises, pulls on

a coat, scarf, and hat, and heads out the door.

Snow flurries greet Stump as he heads outside, and

darkness is falling. He takes a deep breath.

Stump lights a pipe as he walks up a trail, away from the

lodge, toward a ridge, all covered with snow. The

flurries of snow are getting thicker now.

Stump stops at the ridge and looks down at the partially

frozen Lake Tahoe in the lingering light.

Stump continues walking down a crest of snow, through

a stand of snow-covered pines. The light is dark,

purple, eerie, and Stump is lost in thought, until,

suddenly, he sees:

A trail of blood in the snow. He follows it down a

slope, past a tree, growing deeper, thicker. And there

it is --

The buck lies dead in the snow in a pool of blood.

Stump stops in fear, then approaches, leans down

and examines --

The buck's head has a hole blasted behind the ear.

Stump rises quickly to his feet and looks around.

The woods are silent. Snow falls from a branch. And...

He hurries back through the woods up the ridge, momen-

tarily lost as the snow swirls, he finally spots the

lodge.

Stump bursts into the lodge as the brewing storm blows

in.

Cobb is standing there in a hunting jacket, high laced

boots, a hat, with a suitcase. He holds a paper bag

wrapped in twine.

A blizzard -- two cars ease down an ice-covered road

in an increasingly horrendous snowstorm.

Stump is terrified, straining to see through the

flurries which grow thicker by the second. He keeps

checking his rearview mirror.

POV SHOT THROUGH REARVIEW MIRROR

Cobb at the wheel of a huge, black, Chrysler Imperial.

He looks possessed.

Cobb at the wheel -- A madman.

He grabs a bottle of bourbon on the seat and chugs it

down.

A treacherous cliff drops quickly away from the road,

certain death protected by an inadequate guardrail.

Into a blizzard, increasingly out of control, the cars

slip and slide and skid down the mountain.

Cobb leans on his HORN -- HONK, HONK, HONK.

Stump struggles to hang on as the car fishtails on

the edge of losing control. He keeps glancing at

Cobb who continues screaming.

Stump is caught between fear and rage.

Cobb's eyes flare -- The WIND roars, the blizzard beats

against the windshield.

Cobb steps on the gas -- His car pulls out into the

oncoming lane and accelerates to pass.

Cobb's car passes Stump's car down the steep grade.

Insane, impossible, suicidal -- not another car on the

road, the highway closed, barely visible... and here

comes Cobb.

Stump stares in disbelief as he clings to the wheel.

Cobb waves his fist as he speeds past --

He laughs, cackling madly at Stump.

The black Chrysler rushes down the mountain into the

raging storm.

STUMP

struggles to see through the windshield -- snow is

swirling everywhere.

STUMP'S POV

Cobb's car disappears into the blizzard, fishtailing as

it goes.

BACK TO SCENE

Stump's car creeps along the edge of a deep ravine that

plunges to a raging, icy river. The car fishtails,

straightens, and continues on, slowly groping down the

mountain.

Sheer terror. It takes his full powers of concentration

to keep the car on the road.

CLOSER ON STUMP

He sees something.

His car lights reveal tire tracks in the snowdrifts on

the highway. The tracks skid wildly, clearly out of

control, and head straight off the road.

Stump stops his car and gets out -- He hurries to the

edge of the road where the bank drops away quickly.

POV SHOT - COBB'S CAR

lies nose down at the bottom of a snow-filled ravine,

thirty feet away. The tail lights are still on. The

car is totalled.

BACK TO SCENE

Stump plows his way on foot down the embankment, fighting

bad footing and snowdrifts, until --

He arrives at the car -- Surely nobody could survive

this. With difficulty, he makes his way to the back door

of the huge car and wrestles it open.

Stump sticks the top half of his body into the car.

Cobb lies upside down, ass in the air, his face buried

under the dash of the car. There's blood on his face.

Cobb struggles to right himself, twisting and turning

free.

Stump helps Cobb back out of the car.    It is an awkward,

clumsy, difficult task.

Stump drags Cobb awkwardly through the snowbank back up

to the highway. When they get to the edge of the high-

way, Cobb stops to stare at the tire tracks leaving the

road.

The blizzard swirls around the two men, now at Stump's

car on the highway.

Cobb pulls a gun from his overcoat pocket and aims

it right at Stump's head.

Cobb smiles. He loves it when someone stands up to him.

He thrives on confrontation.

Cobb hands the gun to Stump.

Stump holds the gun awkwardly, not knowing what to do.

The car races down the mountain -- a wild ride.

Cobb at the wheel is perfectly happy and at peace. Stump,

in the passenger's seat, braces himself for certain death.

And Cobb launches in as he accelerates down the mountain,

every curve risking death. He seems at peace with the

world -- in the driver's seat, literally, on the edge of

being utterly out of control.

And Cobb drifts into a story of his youth. He's suddenly

so relaxed that he pays little attention to the road.

As the snow whirls around the car hurtling down the

mountain, the snowflakes FILL the SCREEN and turn to

confetti as we:

Confetti falls from the sky -- PROFESSOR COBB, 40, Ty's

father, waves to the crowd in front of city hall. Signs

everywhere declare him to be the newly elected MAYOR COBB.

A band plays "Sweet Georgia Brown" as the Mayor makes a

victory speech.

Professor Cobb sings loudly with the Deacons behind the

Pastor as the CONGREGATION joins in.

CLOSE ON TY'S MOTHER

Very young and pretty, singing in the Congregation. And

young Ty next to her, also singing at the top of his

voice.

Young Ty Cobb is baptized in the river.

Young Ty and three buddies walk along the track.

The boys skip rocks and start across a trestle bridge.

POV SHOT - TRAIN

headed right for the boys.

BACK TO SCENE

The other other boys leap safely into the river, well

ahead of the oncoming train. But young Ty stays on the

tracks.

CLOSE ON ENGINEER

He pulls the WHISTLE and screams at the young boy standing

defiantly on the track.

CLOSE ON YOUNG COBB

His face filled with excitement as the space between him

and the engine reduces to nothing.

NEW ANGLE

Closer and closer the engine comes -- 50 yards, 25 yards,

10, five, four, three... moments before death --

Young Ty Cobb leaps to safety, flying in front of the

engine, out over the water till he splashes, mere milli-

seconds before he would have been crushed to death.

Young Cobb surfaces in the river and waves his arms in

triumph. His pals shriek with delight and embrace him at

his courage.

Other trains on other tracks bearing down on young Cobb.

In each case --

Young Cobb dances in the track and leaps with grace to

safety.

SERIES OF SHOTS

Young Cobb hurtles through the air toward the river, just

missing the locomotive...

Cobb and Stump continue racing down the mountainside.

Stump suddenly looks up and shouts in terror.

A snow-covered truck in the middle of the road, broken

down and abandoned, is on top of us.

Cobb spins the wheel -- The car spins out of control,

just missing the truck, and hurtling on down the icy

highway.

Stump is in sheer terror by this time.

The head of a horse in f.g., shaking its head, uncomfort-

able with the bit in its mouth. In the b.g., the gabled

house in the moonlight. A small light spills from a

second- floor window onto the balcony.

A man on the balcony porch moves toward the window from

which light spills.

The man pulls up the window and --

KABLAM! A SHOTGUN BLAST rips the silence and darkness.

The man falls on his back.

KABLAM!   A second SHOTGUN BLAST takes off his head.

Stump is stunned by this information as the car careens

wildly down the mountainside.

He catches himself.

(B&W)

A gambling den. Money on the bench. Two men is suits are

placing bets, intermingling with the players. A player

smokes, another drinks -- this is as far from the anti-

septic modern game as can be imagined.

Cobb, early 20's, selects his bat, talks to the gambler.

Cobb tosses some money on the pile, and climbs up the

dugout steps, shouting.

Cobb swings the bat and shouts at the pitcher.

The pitcher flips Cobb the finger and takes a sign, deliv-

ering a pitch which is swung on and missed, strike three.

Cobb heads to the plate, passing his dejected teammate

who has just struck out.

Cobb laughs -- He seems to feed on these exchanges, and

he stands in at the plate, addressing the UMPIRE.

As Cobb digs in, he reaches into his back pocket and

drops something on home plate, in front of the CATCHER.

The Catcher holds up a pair of women's panties.

CLOSE ON CATCHER

He flips his thumb, a sign for the pitcher to deck Cobb.

The pitcher delivers a fastball right at Cobb's head --

He hits the dirt just before the pitch arrives (and this

is long before players wore protective headgear).

Cobb rises, laughing defiantly.

Then Cobb shouts at the shortstop, a large German-American

athlete, the great HONUS WAGNER.

Wagner doesn't budge, comfortable in his position, not

drawn into Cobb's taunts. Stoic, implacable -- far from

Cobb.

CLOSE ON COBB

His chatter stops, his focus is intense and sudden. He

holds the bat strangely, with a split grip, a left-

handed batter, he dangles the bat almost parallel to the

ground. For all his fierceness, there's a delicacy in

the way he holds the bat. A baton, a paintbrush, a magic

wand...

NEW ANGLE

Here comes the pitch -- sinker away -- and Cobb unleashes

a swing that is at once quick and powerful. He drives the

ball to left, the opposite way --

Wagner lunges to his right -- But the ball skips into

left.

Cobb streaks to first and rounds the base viciously, daring

to stretch it into a double but slamming on the brakes and

returning to first when the throw rifles into second.

Cobb shouts defiantly at the pitcher.

Cobb looks down at Wagner who stands implacably at short-

stop, a large, powerfully-built man.

CLOSE ON WAGNER

He just nods.

NEW ANGLE

The pitcher stretches, looks and delivers -- and Cobb

breaks for second. The pitch is wide. The Catcher fires.

Wagner takes the throw as Cobb arrives in a spikes-up

slide.

And Wagner swipes a brutal tag in Cobb's face -- his giant

ham of a hand in the tiny glove clutching the ball lashes

across Cobb's mouth. Blood gushes. The ball pops free.

Wagner seems unbothered by the fact that Cobb is safe at

second -- he has bloodied Cobb's face. Cobb seems unboth-

ered by the fact that his face is a bloody mess -- he has

stolen second. Both men seem satisfied.

BACK IN DUGOUT

More money is wagered.

PITCHER

Stretches and delivers -- Cobb takes off for third.       The

throw is high -- he slides in safely.

IN STANDS

Bets are doubled. The stands are full of wagering. The

whole ballpark is like a giant saloon -- drinking,

smoking, wagering -- and the game is played by thugs and

brigands.

COBB ON THIRD

Yells at the pitcher and Catcher.

CATCHER

steals a glance at Cobb who takes a menacing lead off

third. The Catcher gives a signal to the pitcher.

PITCHER

nods, winds up, and as he does --

Here comes Cobb with a recklessness beyond reason. And

as the pitch arrives in the Catcher's hands, the Catcher

digs in to take on Cobb --

Cobb slides spikes high, flying above the earth, his back

leg slashing his spikes like knives. It is a slide of

utter defiance and violence, a slide intended to harm.

A vicious collision between Cobb and the catcher -- blood

and dust. The ball rolls free. Safe.

Cobb and the catcher immediately start punching and in

seconds, a brawl breaks out, both benches clearing. As

the police rush out to break up the brawl...

Cobb enters the stadium through the dugout. The crowd

rises to boo Cobb. The boos are overpowering.

Cobb warms up in front of the dugout. The boos are

deafening. The vindictive threats are ceaseless.

Cobb continues warming up.

Cobb tips his hat and speaks easily to the fan.

The police escort Cobb to right field -- the roar of the

vitriolic crowd increases.

Cobb in right with the cops -- the crowd on its feet,

booing so loudly that the air is all one giant, wailing

moan of hatred.

Cobb opens a stack of mail -- a police chief and subor-

dinate officers are with him.

CLOSE ON MAIL

Cut-out letters read:    "COBB - YOU'RE DEAD"

Cobb puffs on a cigar defiantly as he reads his hate

mail.

Armed police patrol the stands looking for snipers as

Cobb plays the game in right field surrounded by police.

The booing increases -- fans truly hate him.

CLOSE ON COBB

He smiles.

INT. WHITE HOUSE STUDY

Woodrow Wilson and Cobb have a drink.

Harding, Cobb and others play cards. A lot of money is

on the table. And booze. And women that look suspi-

ciously like they've been hired. A floozy drapes herself

around President Harding.

A formal portrait with President Calvin Coolidge and

Cobb. Coolidge doesn't smile, doesn't seem to do any-

thing. Just another portrait.

CLOSE ON COBB'S MOUTH

during the portrait.    We can read his lips as he mouths

"fuck you" silently.

Like an out of control bobsled -- Cobb races and Stump

hangs on for his life.

Cobb's tone changes suddenly -- he questions Stump with-

out guile or anger, as if his answer is obvious.

Cobb stares at Stump, waiting for an answer, and forgets

about the road.

Stump looks up in fear and points at the road.

Cobb swerves wildly back onto the road, such as it exists

in the blizzard.

Stump is nailed.

INTERCUT:

Suddenly something appears ahead on the roadside. Cobb

doesn't see it. Stump does. It looks like a figure,

huddled, wrapped, immobile in the swirling snow. It

can't be...

THEIR POV - FIGURE

attempts to wave at the car. A nearly-frozen, desperate

attempt to flag down the car.

BACK TO SCENE

Cobb brakes -- the car spins to a stop some distance past

the figure standing knee-deep in snow.

And Stump climbs out of the car.

Stump trudges back to the half-frozen figure who flails

his arms stiffly at the apparition of a car in all this.

The figure is wrapped in blankets, his head covered. We

cannot see who it is until we are in his face.

It is Willie, the black man who Cobb fired the day

before.

Willie stops trudging toward the car.

And Stump drags Willie to the car, though the man is re-

luctant the whole way, he is in no condition to resist.

They get to the car -- Stump opens the back door to help

the nearly-frozen man into the car. Cobb grumbles.

And Stump loses it -- he grabs Cobb's pistol off the seat

of the car and aims it right at Cobb's head.

Stump hands the gun to Willie.....

Willie climbs into the back seat with the gun.       Cobb is

livid.

And Cobb jumps on the gas -- the car races off, back down

the mountain, fishtailing as it goes.

racing down the highway in the snow, and we go      out

hearing Willie recount the greatest ballplayers      of all

time -- all of them black -- as Cobb seethes, a      gun to

his head. Stump feeds Willie, watching Cobb's       racism

simmer.

Into the storm the car disappears -- fishtailing down the

mountain.

The blizzard grows thicker, the flurries taking over the

mountain, until all we see is --

The thick snow falling from the dark sky.      Suddenly --

as slick as a bobsled run.

CLOSE ON STUMP

Terror.

CLOSE ON WILLIE

Terror.   He lowers the gun and hangs on for dear life.

CLOSE ON COBB

He accelerates with vengeance.

wobbles and starts spinning -- out of control, then

spinning continuous 360s down the grade.

The world spins around them as they cling for their

lives. Until:

THUD -- the car slams into a bank of snow.      Suddenly,

silence.

The three men sit without speaking for several beats,

slowly acknowledging that they have survived. Finally:

glows a welcome sign in the night.    It is no longer

snowing.

BACK TO SCENE

Willie hands the gun to Stump and climbs out of the car,

bidding farewell to Stump as he does.

Willie tips his hat and trudges to the neon glow in the

distance. Cobb and Stump alone in the car.

They both look out -- the car is buried, hood deep, in

the bank of snow.

Under the famous arch that reads: "The Biggest Little

City in the World," a tow truck pulls Stump's car into

town, and up to:

EXT. LAST CHANCE HOTEL - NIGHT

The truck stops -- Stump helps Cobb out and into the old

style building adjacent to the gaudier casinos.

Stump helps Cobb to the registration desk in a clean, but

very modest old hotel.

A WOMAN, 30s, stands at the counter in the middle of some

dispute with the clerk. She wears a long, cheap, plain-

cloth overcoat and galoshes.

Stump bursts in, oblivious to the conversation in

progress.

The woman turns to confront the two men.     Now we see her.

On a fabulous platinum-blonde wig is stuck    a yellow

slicker-type rain hat. The ear flaps are     awry, the

platinum-blonde wig curls up around it --    the effect is

thrilling.

Cobb pulls out a bottle of pills and washes a handful

down with a deep swig from a pint bottle of whiskey.

The Clerk looks on with alarm.

She whirls and leaves the lobby, leaving the three men.

Stump helps Cobb shoot up with insulin -- The needle

clumsily groping for a vein in the old man's arm.

CLOSE ON COBB

His face looks terrible, drawn, drained.

Cobb reaches into his pouch and pulls out a bundle of

cash and security notes, tied neatly with a string.

And Stump hands Cobb his beloved pistol, which Cobb

takes with great affection and comfort.

Stump helps Cobb into bed, covering him with a blanket.

The gun and the money sit on the pillow next to his

head.

Cobb speaks with great pain just before he passes out

from pain, drugs, and exhaustion.

Cobb manages a small, pained smile before drifting

off into sleep. Stump turns off the light and exits.

Stump pours a glass of vodka, settles into a chair, and

dials the phone. He swallows deeply of the drink, and

waits.

Stump quickly checks a calendar on the wall and realizes

he's missed his son's birthday.

Stump hangs up the phone -- Takes a deep breath,

and...

He pours another drink, and sits down to his typewriter.

Stump is hunkered over his typewriter pounding away.       His

VOICE OVER indicates what he is writing.

We hear SOUNDS of the TYPEWRITER BANGING away as...

We DRIFT OUT the window -- Leaving Stump to write all

night, at first viewing through the window, then moving

until we have a view of --

We hear the incessant BANGING OF the TYPEWRITER GRADUALLY

FADE AWAY...

Stump asleep -- full sun shines in the window.       Noon.

A BOTTLE CRASHES against the headboard jarring Stump to

consciousness. He looks up to see:

Cobb reading the pages in a rage.     He tears them as he

does.

Stump awakens slowly, disoriented, amidst a shattered

bottle.

This frank admission momentarily stops Stump.

(B&W)

A horse shakes its head, attached to a buggy.     A man

pats the horse and ties it to a tree.

The woman preparing for bed.

The father climbing up the trellis onto the balcony.

pulls a gun as he nears the window.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT (B&W)

The woman hears noises on the balcony and leaps out

of bed in terror.

CLOSE ON WOMAN (B&W)

She turns and looks toward the bed.   We don't see

whatever she's looking at.

WOMAN'S POV (B&W)

The window.    It starts to open.

A SHOTGUN BLAST takes out Cobb's father's stomach

and he reels back onto the balcony. He rolls to his

elbows and looks up.

A SECOND SHOTGUN BLAST takes his head off.

Cobb stands above Stump who is still in bed.

Cobb spits on the papers of Stump's text.

Silence.   Stump is shaken by this story.

Cobb calmly picks up the phone and hands it to Stump.

Stump quickly dials and gets an answer.

Stump listens long and hard -- his face sinks.

Cobb smiles and hangs the phone back up for Stump who

reaches for the bottle on the nightstand and pours

himself a morning drink of vodka.

Cobb lights a big cigar -- and sets fire to Stump's

pages. Both men watch them go up in smoke.

Stump just stares back -- exhausted and overmatched.

The main room -- Showtime.     In progress.

LOUIS PRIMA WITH KEELY SMITH are thrilling a packed house

full of dinner tables.

Cobb and Stump at a table drinking and eating.

A cigarette girl works the room at a nearby table.      She's

all legs and fishnet stockings... and wig.

The cigarette girl turns and we recognize her.

Ramona is a vision in this outfit as she approaches them.

Ramona arrives at their table.

Cobb is suddenly gallant, gentlemanly, even charming.

Ramona delivers the cigars and collects the money.

Stump is a bit chagrined and caught off guard by this

Cobb.

INTERCUT WITH:

ONSTAGE

Louis Prima takes the mike -- His number has finished to

much applause from the drunken crowd.

The spotlight flies to Cobb who kisses Ramona's hand.

Stump has been left out of the exchange, and mumbles.

The audience stands to applaud Cobb -- Full and genuine.

Cobb graciously waves to the crowd, bowing, basking.

BACK ONSTAGE - LOUIS PRIMA

motions to his band.

They break into "Sweet Georgia Brown."

Cobb breaks into a little dance with Ramona at the table,

much to Stump's (and Ramona's) amazement. For a moment,

at least, there is great footwork and lightness in his

movement -- we get a glimpse of the great athlete he once

was.

And Cobb heads for the stage, walking better but not

without effort, a walk enhanced by drugs and booze. As

he does, Ramona turns to Stump.

And she's off with her trayful of tobacco to the cocktail

lounge.

BACK ONSTAGE

As Cobb arrives...

Louis Prima welcomes Cobb to the mike to thunderous

applause.

Cobb grabs the mike and takes over.

Prima and his cohorts are aghast. They cling to the hope

that this is some put-on, some joke. They force a small,

unnatural laugh.

Stump winces and leaves the room, heading for the bar.

A disaster.     Prima tries gamely to seize the mike back.

Cobb turns to the crowd which, even in it's drunken state,

is appalled and in disbelief.

Cobb grabs a clarinet from a member of Prima's band.

BACKSTAGE

The CASINO MANAGERS and SECURITY FORCES are quickly

gathering to figure out what to do.

OFFSTAGE

The Casino Manager winces and consults.

And Cobb starts demonstrating hitting techniques to the

bewildered audience and casino staff. He strikes that

familiar, strange stance -- choked up on the bat, a split

grip, the bat held parallel to the ground...

Stump sees Ramona at the bar, her cigarette/cigar tray on

the bar. She's smoking and working her way through a

tall drink. He approaches her.

Ramona pulls the wig off her head revealing a sea of

bobby pins and hair pins tying her natural brown hair to

her head. She sets the wig on the counter and scratches

her natural scalp.

Stump scratches the back of her scalp, somewhat embar-

rassed and somewhat aroused.

Ramona slaps the wig back on her head. Slightly

akilter. She doesn't care. Harvey delivers another

round.

Stump is so taken aback that he doesn't know how to

answer. Flustered, he looks around, then takes a deep

hit on his drink. He is very unsure.

Ramona lets out a loud, hearty laugh without inhibition.

Stump, completely befuddled, lets down completely. He

doesn't care about getting laid or drunk or anything for

the moment, except having someone to talk to -- the some-

one is Ramona.

A sigh.   Stump is lost.    He motions to the bartender.

Stump has to think about this for a while.

She looks at him like he's crazy.

Stump drinks deeply -- his heart needs alcoholic

reinforcement.

Stump and Ramona stagger in drunkenly -- they are awkward

and passionate.

She grabs his vodka and takes a swig from the bottle.

She laughs a hearty laugh, letting it all out.

They embrace -- and hold each other fully, doing nothing

but holding on. Stump relaxes.

A moment of quiet, simple bliss -- when:

The door bursts open -- the LOCK SPLINTERS with a CRASH,

and:

Cobb bursts into the room -- Full of rage.

And Cobb lashes out at Stump -- Stump tries to block

the blow, but Cobb is relentless, and Cobb hits him

again.

Stump falls backwards -- His head hits a corner of the

table.

And Cobb backhands Ramona across the face, knocking her

down.

Stump lies on the floor only half conscious. He grabs

his head. Blood. The room swirls in front of him as --

Cobb grabs Ramona, pulling his everpresent gun from his

pocket as he does.

Cobb jams the pistol into her jaw.

STUMP'S POV

A dizzying view of Cobb dragging the woman out of his

room. And he passes out.

Cobb throws Ramona to the floor and locks the door.     Her

wig falls off.

Cobb picks it up and stares at it.

She does -- The wig sits at a funny angle.

Cobb clicks the hammer of his gun with icy calm.

She stares at the madman.

Ramona removes her top -- her breasts are jammed into a

classic 50's push-up bra.

She does.    And covers her breasts with her hands.

Ramona gets on the bed -- Cobb circles the bed

continuously.

She rolls on her face, propping herself on her elbows.

CLOSE ON HER FACE

Terror and tears.

CLOSE ON COBB

His eyes are full of fury and lust.

Terrified, she does.

THROUGH the open door -- Stump rises to his feet, feels

his head, and groggily staggers out. Blood on his hand.

Stump feels his way past a couple doors, listening in,

unsure which room is Cobb's until a booming voice --

Stump hurries to Cobb's door and listens in to be sure.

INTERCUT WITH:

Cobb stands above her with his gun and his money.

Cobb pulls a stack of bills from his bag.

He holds out the money for her.

Silence. Cobb takes a big, sloppy hit from a bottle,

throwing in a few pills for good measure.

He reaches out and straightens her wig which is pretty

crooked by now. She lets him. Then he falls apart, vio-

lently grabbing his crotch.

Cobb grabs his crotch with the violence he does

everything.

Cobb lashes out at Ramona -- a vicious right hand.         She

ducks as his fist slams through the headboard.

Ramona grabs her clothes and runs from the room, past

Stump who has heard it all. He enters Cobb's room.

Cobb sits at the foot of the bed, thoroughly flustered.

Stump helps him into his bed where he curls up with his

money and his gun, barely conscious.

Stump tucks Cobb in his bed as the old man drifts into

sleep, turns off the light, and heads back to his own room.

CLOSE ON COBB

asleep. Even in sleep, dying, he is twitching and full

of fragments of unspent energy.

Stump at the typewriter, pounding away without

interruption.

INTERCUT WITH:

Cobb tossing and turning in his sleep, squeezing a pillow

or blanket in a death grip.

INTERCUT WITH:

Pages of the baseball book in progress next to a neatly-

stacked manuscript in progress.

Stump sits on his bed smoking his pipe and writing in

longhand on pieces of paper of all sizes.

Stump packs "his" version into a box, hiding it deep in

his suitcase.

The door flies open and Cobb bursts in -- full of vim and

vigor, a fresh set of clothes on, fire in his eyes.

Cobb goes straight for the typewriter and yanks out a

page, grabbing the stack of typed pages as well.

Cobb reads the pages with utter seriousness.       Stump

watches.

Cobb rushes to Stump and embraces him, almost like a

child. His eyes are wet with tears.

Stump stares back.    And nods.

Cobb and Stump approach the gaming tables and as they do,

Cobb is recognized and approached for autographs. He

signs as he walks, suddenly gracious in this moment.

Arriving at a craps table, Cobb barges right in.

The croupier pushes the dice to Cobb who places a bet, as

do the others.

Cobb rolls the dice -- but he sees something.     Somebody.

POV - RAMONA AND WILLIE

are rolling dice at a nearby table. They appear

friendly, not intimate, two among twelve.

BACK TO SCENE

Cobb's voice silences the tables.    Ramona looks up.

Ramona seizes the moment and kisses Willie on the cheek,

draping herself all around him as if they were close.

The intention is strictly to get back at Cobb.

Cobb pulls his gun and tries to climb across the table.

Cobb on the table with a gun as Stump and police officers

scramble to grab his gun hand. Customers hit the deck.

BLAM, BLAM, BLAM -- the gun is FIRED REPEATEDLY into the

ceiling fixtures, into the mirrors above the tables.

Cobb is wrestled to the table by several men, including

Stump. And it takes all of them to escort the struggling

Cobb out of the casino into the lobby.

Stump hesitates, chaos swirls around them. Cobb is out

of control, we hear threats of arrest -- when...

This stops Cobb cold.    He's immediately sober.

Stump's car passes under the arch, heading out of town,

and we go to voice over:

The car takes Stump and Cobb eastward.

Cobb is in an upbeat mood. He's reading a map.       A tape

recorder with hand mike sits between them.

CLOSE ON STUMP

deeply alarmed by this confession.

Cobb talks into a tape recorder sitting on his lap,

enjoying the hand microphone.

And Cobb resumes into the tape recorder.

